una.  <KundjwL  Jtventtf-nwik. 
ANNUAL 

COtlfEREnCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

OphiL  4,  5  jcmcL  6,  1959 

With  Report  of  Discourses 
•WW* 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-ninth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-ninth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday,  April 
4,  5,  and  6,  1959. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday, 
and  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
evening,  April  4,  at  7:00  p.m. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  audi- 
ences one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan,  KDXU  at  St.  George. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KID 
and  KID-TV  at  Idaho  Falls,  KBOI  and 
KBOI-TV  at  Boise,  KPST  at  Preston, 
KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls,  KLEW-TV  at 
Lewiston. 

In  Colorado:  KREX  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  California:  KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa, 
KRDG  and  KVIP-TV  at  Redding, 
KEEN  at  San  Jose,  KGO-TV  at  San 
Francisco,  KNXT-TV  at  Los  Angeles, 
KERO-TV  at  Bakersfield,  KEYT-TV  at 
Santa  Barbara,  KOVR-TV  at  Stockton, 
KFMB-TV  at  San  Diego,  KIEM-TV  at 
Eureka. 

In  Oregon:  KKID  at  Pendleton, 
KACI  at  The  Dalles,  KOIN-TV  at 
Portland,  KBES-TV  at  Medford,  KOTI- 
TV  at  Klamath  Falls. 

In  Arizona:  KOLD  and  KGUN-TV 
at  Tucson,  KPHO  and  KPHO-TV  at 
Phoenix,  KCLS  at  Flagstaff,  KVWM  at 
Show  Low. 

In  New  Mexico:  KRSN  AM  and  FM 
at  Los  Alamos. 

In  Nevada:  KLAS-TV  at  Las  Vegas. 

In  Washington:  KTNT-TV  at  Ta- 


coma,  KBAS-TV  at  Ephrata,  KXLY-TV 
at  Spokane,  KIMA-TV  at  Yakima, 
KEPR-TV  at  Pasco. 

In  Montana:  KXLF-TV  at  Butte, 
KOOK-TV  at  Billings. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeak- 
ing  system  and  by  television.  Thou- 
sands, in  addition,  listened  to  the 
services  on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  were  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall 
over  public  address  systems,  and  by 
direct  wire  over  a  public  address  system 
to  members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other 
assemblies  throughout  the  United  States 
and  in  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  includ- 
ing the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing System's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record.  (See  page  123) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Ben- 
son, Mark  E.  Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  Richard  L.  Evans, 
George  Q.  Morris,  and  Hugh  B.  Brown. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Gordon 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


B.  Hinckley,  Henry  D.  Taylor,  William 
J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  Alvin  R  Dyer. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young,  Milton  R. 
Hunter,  Bruce  R.  McConkie,  Marion  D. 
Hanks,  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  as  assistants, 
A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary 
Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 


Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of 
the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Jesse  A. 
Udall,  California;  J.  Earl  Lewis, 
Canadian;  Henry  A.  Smith,  Central 
Atlantic  States;  Samuel  R.  Carpenter, 
Central  States;  M.  Ross  Richards,  East 
Central  States;  Theodore  C.  Jacobsen, 
Eastern  States;  Reuel  E.  Christensen, 
Great  Lakes;  Lincoln  F.  Hanks,  Gulf 
States;  Harvey  H.  Taylor,  Mexican; 
Junius  M.  Jackson,  New  England;  Paul 
C.  Child,  North  Central  States;  J. 
Leonard  Love,  Northern  California; 
Israel  I.  Bentley,  Northern  Mexican; 
Richard  C.  Stratford,  Northern  States; 
Douglas  H.  Driggs,  Northwestern  States; 
Berkeley  L.  Bunker,  Southern  States; 
Fred  W.  Turley,  Southwest  Indian; 
Ralph  E.  Brown,  Spanish-American; 
Casper  W.  Merrill,  West  Central  States; 
Leland  M.  Perry,  West  Spanish  Ameri- 
can; Parley  A.  Arave,  Western  Canadi- 
an; David  S.  Romney,  Western  States. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  convened  in  the  great 
Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Sat- 
urday morning,  April  4,  1959  at  10:00 
a.m.,  with  President  David  O.  McKay 
presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 

The  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  Norman 
Gulbrandsen  conducting,  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  opened  the  Confer- 
ence with  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  the  words  of  Peter  from  the  Mount 
of  the  Transfiguration,  "Lord,  it  is  good 
for  us  to  be  here."  There  is  a  saying 
in  the  Bible:  "Iron  sharpeneth  iron; 
so  a  man  sharpeneth  the  countenance 
of  his  friend."  (Prov.  27:17.)  It  is  in 
that  spirit  that  it  is  good  to  meet  you. 
It  was  good  to  meet  with  the  members 
of  the  General  Authorities  who  met  as 
guests  in  the  House  of  the  Lord  last 
Thursday  morning.  You  know,  when 
you  come  home  from  a  trip,  it  is  glorious 
to  be  welcomed  by  loved  ones.  When- 
ever you  meet  a  friend,  your  soul  is 
lifted,  you  have  an  ecstatic  feeling.  That 
is  the  feeling  we  enjoy  here  this  morn- 
ing as  we  meet  as  guests  in  this  old 
Tabernacle,  guests  of  the  Lord.  It  is 
always  a  feeling  of  joy  to  meet  old 
friends.  It  is  a  greater  ecstasy  to  meet 
in  the  spirit  of  brotherhood. 

We  welcome  all  who  are  listening  in 
this  morning  at  this,  the  opening  session 
of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-ninth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square.  Every  seat  is  filled.  The 
doorways  are  occupied  by  eager  lis- 
teners. All  of  the  General  Authorities 
are  present.  Brother  Joseph  Anderson 
will  be  Clerk  of  this  Conference. 

We  wish  to  announce  that  these 
services,  and  all  general  sessions  of  the 
Conference,  will  be  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  by 
television.  The  general  sessions  of  this 


Conference  will  be  broadcast  as  a  pub- 
lic service  over  television  and  radio 
stations  throughout  the  West.  The 
names  of  these  stations  have  already 
been  announced  to  the  television  and 
the  radio  audiences.  To  the  owners  and 
managers  of  these  various  stations,  in 
behalf  of  all  the  General  Authorities 
and  in  your  behalf,  we  express  our  sin- 
cere appreciation  for  this  outstanding 
public  service  so  generously  rendered. 

To  the  large  audience  assembled  in 
the  Tabernacle,  the  overflow  gatherings 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  to  the  unnumbered  thousands  com- 
prising the  television  and  radio  audi- 
ences, in  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency, 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  other 
General  Authorities,  we  bid  you  a  hearty 
welcome  to  this,  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-ninth  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church. 

Please  note  that  any  important  mes- 
sages or  calls  that  come  to  us  for  persons 
attending  this  Conference  will  be  an- 
nounced at  the  dismissal  of  the  meetings 
over  the  public  address  system  on  the 
grounds. 

We  note  this  large  group  of  choice 
young  men  and  young  women.  They 
constitute  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Combined  Choruses  occupying  the 
seats  usually  occupied  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  This  Chorus  will  furnish  the 
music  for  us  today.  It  is  a  joy  to  have 
them  present  this  morning. 

Note  the  lovely  flowers  arranged  here. 
We  are  pleased  to  let  you  know  of 
those  who  have  thought  of  us  and  who 
wished  to  add  to  the  beauty  of  this 
occasion: 

First.  Five  thousand  daffodils  have 
come  from  the  Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil 
Festival,  Inc.  of  Tacoma,  Washington, 
in  cooperation  with  the  presidency  of 
the  Tacoma  Stake.  These  daffodils 
come  from  the  Puyallup  Valley  where 
are  found  the  nation's  and  the  world's 
largest  plantings  of  the  Giant  King 
Alfred  daffodils. 

Second.  The  calla  lilies — twelve  hun- 
dred from  the  high  priests  of  the  Oak- 
land-Berkeley Stake,  California. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

Third.  Forty  dozen  gladiolas  from 
the  Ft.  Myers  Branch  of  the  Southern 
States  Mission,  grown  by  Brother  and 
Sister  William  Nychyk,  who  have  200 
acres  of  gladiolus  in  Ft.  Myers,  Florida. 

Fourth.  The  beautiful  stocks  have 
come  from  Arizona,  from  the  Phoenix, 
the  East  Phoenix,  and  the  Phoenix 
North  Stakes. 

Fifth.  Seventy-eight  beautiful  Easter 
plants  have  come  from  Paul  Flint  of 
the  Kaysville  Second  Ward.  Each  plant 
contains  several  blossoms. 

Sixth.  Mary  A.  Persson  of  Woodland, 
California,  sent  three  dozen  beautiful 
calla  lilies. 

Seventh.  Fifteen  thousand  sweet  peas 
from  the  Indian  Sunday  School  at  Fort 
McDowell,  Arizona,  grown  and  picked 
by  the  Indian  children. 

With  all  our  hearts  we  express  appre- 
ciation and  thanks  to  the  friends  and 
members  of  the  Church  for  these  floral 
gifts,  bearing  their  sweet  messages  of 
affectionate  greeting  and  loyal  support. 
We  express  appreciation  of  the  effort 
put  forth  by  members  of  these  wards, 
branches,  stakes,  and  missions.  We  ex- 
press also  appreciation  to  Brother  and 
Sister  Mart  Jorgensen  of  the  Granite 
Ward  of  this  city,  who  have  worked 
early  and  late  in  arranging  and  placing 
these  thousands  of  flowers  in  vases. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  our 
stake  presidencies,  bishoprics,  temple 
presidents,  and  general  auxiliary  officers, 
our  mission  presidents  from  the  United 
States,  Mexico,  Central  America,  and 
Canada.  We  also  extend  a  hearty  wel- 
come and  express  satisfaction  and 
pleasure  in  the  attendance  of  prominent 
men  in  the  nation,  state,  city,  and  other 
places. 

You  will  all  be  pleased  to  know  we 
have  noted  Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett, 
United  States  Senator;  Frank  E.  Moss, 
United  States  Senator;  David  S.  King, 
United  States  Congressman;  George 
Dewey  Clyde,  Governor  of  the  State  of 
Utah;  Lamont  Toronto,  Secretary  of 
State;  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  Mayor  of  Salt 
Lake  City;  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  presi- 
dent of  the  Brigham  Young  University; 
President  A.  Ray  Olpin,  president  of  the 
University  of  Utah;  President  John  L. 
Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College; 
Pres.  William  P.  Miller,  president  of 
Weber  College;  Dr.  M.  Lynn  Bennion, 


First  Day 

superintendent  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Schools;  Dr.  E.  Allen  Bateman,  state 
superintendent  of  Public  Instruction;  I 
think  we  have  others:  Elder  Ezra  Taft 
Benson,  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  Secretary  of  Agriculture;  Sena- 
tor Arthur  V.  Watkins  is  here,  whom 
we  have  frequently  had,  while  he  was 
serving;  H.  Aldous  Dixon — did  I  miss 
you?  I  want  to  thank  you  especially  for 
the  report  you  made  to  us  recently. 

Now  we  can  see  others  down  here. 
Thank  you  for  your  presence.  We  are 
glad  you  are  all  here. 

As  already  announced,  the  singing 
for  this  morning's  session  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Combined  Choruses,  with  Norman 
Gulbrandsen  conducting,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints,"  conducted  by  Elder  Gulbrand- 
sen. 

The  opening  prayer,  following  the 
singing,  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Joseph 
T.  Bentley,  formerly  president  of  the 
Northern  Mexican  Mission  and  at  pres- 
ent General  Superintendent  of  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociation. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  the  hymn:  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  Joseph  T.  Bentley  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  T.  Bentley,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Northern  Mexican  Mission 
and  at  present  General  Superintendent 
of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Association. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing:  "Behold 
the  Lamb  of  God,"  conducted  by  Nor- 
man Gulbrandsen.  After  the  singing 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  speak  to  us. 

Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "Behold 
The  Lamb  of  God." 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  will  now 
speak  to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 

There  are  several  others  in  the  audi- 
ence whom  I  would  like  to  mention, 
among  them  President  Daryl  Chase  of 
the  Utah  State  University;  and  you  will 
be  pleased  to  know  that  we  have  Mr. 


Joseph  A.  Brunton,  Jr.,  of  New  York, 
Assistant  Chief  Scout  Executive,  of  the 
Boy  Scouts  of  America;  Robert  W. 
Perin,  of  New  York  also,  Assistant 
Director  of  Volunteer  Training  of  the 
Boy  Scouts;  and  Mr.  D.  L.  Roberts,  di- 
rector of  "Mormon"  Relationships  of 
the  Boy  Scouts  of  America.  We  wel- 
come you  gentlemen.  They  have  been 
with  the  Primary  Association  and  have 
given  messages  to  our  teachers  interested 
in  the  Boy  Scout  movement. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  here  in  the 
building  and  on  the  air,  all  children 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  I  stand  before 
you  in  humility,  in  need  of  help  from 
our  Heavenly  Father.  I  have  asked 
him  to  help  me.  I  would  appreciate  an 
equal  prayer  from  you  to  the  same  end. 

This  is  Easter  time.  The  celebration 
of  the  resurrection  has  just  passed,  and 
sometimes  there  is  a  tendency  to  think 
that  thereafter  the  Lord  ascended,  and 
we  have  nothing  more  to  do  about  it. 
I  have  had  particularly  in  mind  two 
or  three  passages  that  I  shall  try  to 
recall. 

In  the  Passover  chamber,  the  Lord 
said,  "...  I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and 
the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the 
Father,  but  by  me."  (John  14:6.)  At 
various  times  in  his  mission,  he  added 
the  word  "light,"  so  that  in  its  com- 
plete form  it  stands,  "I  am  the  way, 
the  truth,  the  life,  and  the  light." 

I  remember  that  at  the  time  of  the 
raising  of  Lazarus,  the  Lord  said,  in 
response  to  a  statement  from  Martha: 

"...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the 
life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though 
he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  Believest  thou 
this? 

"She  saith  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord:  I  be- 
lieve that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  which  should  come  into  the 
world."  (John  11:25-27.) 

Peter,  speaking  to  the  Sanhedrin,  in 
response  to  their  question,  ".  .  .  By  what 
power,  or  by  what  name,  have  ye  done 
this?"  replied,  ".  .  .  by  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Nazareth,  whom  ye  crucified. 


...  for  there  is  none  other  name  under 
heaven  given  among  men,  whereby  we 
must  be  saved."  (Acts  4:7-10,  12.) 

As  I  have  read  the  record,  I  have 
been  persuaded  that  not  so  fully  did  the 
apostles  themselves,  up  until  after  the 
resurrection,  understand  who  the  Savior 
was  or  might  be,  as  did  the  learned 
men  of  Israel,  who  saw,  who  partially 
understood,  and  who  feared. 

The  Savior,  the  Book  tells  us  in  Acts, 
remained  on  the  earth  after  his  resur- 
rection for  forty  days,  during  which  time 
he  worked  and  preached  and,  I  would 
assume,  assisted  in  setting  in  order  his 
Church. 

But  I  thought  that  I  might  run  over, 
so  far  as  my  memory  serves  me,  a  few 
of  the  visual  demonstrations  that  were 
given  in  those  early  days  of  the  Resur- 
rected Christ.  You  remember  that  an 
earthquake  came  before  the  break  of 
day  and  rolled  back  the  stone  from  the 
sepulchre.  We  are  not  given  an  ac- 
count as  to  how  the  Savior  came  from 
the  sepulchre  except  that  we  read  that 
the  burial  clothes  were  left  in  the 
sepulchre  itself. 

You  remember  that  Mary  Magdalene 
was  the  first,  even  before  the  dawn 
broke,  to  go  to  the  sepulchre.  Seeing  it 
open,  she  rushed  to  tell  Peter  and  John. 
They  not  realizing,  not  understanding, 
not  knowing  what  to  look  for,  rushed 
to  the  sepulchre  and  found  it  empty. 

Shortly  after  that  the  women  came 
with  spices  because  there  had  been  no 
time  on  the  previous  Friday  night  prop- 
erly to  prepare  the  Christ  for  his 
burial.  They  did  not  understand  that 
he  was  to  be  resurrected  on  the  morn- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

ing  of  the  third  day,  for  they  came  on 
that  morning  properly  to  dress  and 
prepare  the  body  for  burial.  Mary  Mag- 
dalene was  with  them  and  Mary  the 
mother.  You  recall  that  while  he  for- 
bade Mary,  to  whom  he  had  already 
shown  himself,  to  touch  him,  he  per- 
mitted the  women  to  hold  his  feet. 

They  saw  him.  They  heard  his 
voice.    They  knew  he  was  resurrected. 

A  little  later  on  that  day,  two  of  the 
disciples  were  on  their  way  to  Emmaus. 
The  Savior  joined  them.  He  seemed 
to  be  uninformed  about  what  had  hap- 
pened in  Jerusalem  which  seemed  to 
have  been  common  talk  in  Jerusalem  by 
that  time,  and  they  talked  a  bit  about 
that.  The  Savior  did  not  appear  ap- 
parently to  them  as  he  had  appeared 
before  his  resurrection.  So  he  went 
along  with  them  and  began  to  tell  them 
all  about  it,  who  he  was,  and  began 
to  repeat  the  scriptures  to  them.  Com- 
ing to  an  inn  they  invited  him  in  with 
them.  They  went  in,  sat  down,  prepar- 
ing to  eat.  He  broke  bread  and  offered 
it  to  them.  Then  they  recognized  for 
the  first  time  who  he  was,  and  he  van- 
ished. 

That  night  the  ten — there  were  only 
eleven  altogether  now  because  Iscariot 
had  committed  suicide — were  sitting  in 
a  room  together  and  suddenly  the  Savior 
stood  among  them.  They  were  fright- 
ened. They  thought  he  was  a  spirit. 
He  said,  ".  .  .  Why  are  ye  troubled?  .  .  . 
Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet,  that  it 
is  I  myself:  handle  me,  and  see;  for  a 
spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye 
see  me  have."  (Luke  24:38-39.)  They 
had  thought  he  might  be  a  spirit. 

And  then  he  asked  them — and  this 
has  always  been  interesting  to  me — he 
asked  them  for  food — they  were  at  din- 
ner— and  they  gave  him  broiled  fish 
and  honeycomb,  and  he  ate — a  resur- 
rected being  ate  of  these  earthly  foods. 

Thomas  was  not  there,  and  Thomas 
said  that  he  would  not  believe  if  he 
could  not  touch  the  Savior  to  be  sure. 
Eight  days  following,  the  apostles  were 
all  together  again,  this  time  Thomas 
with  them,  and  the  doors  being  shut, 
so  the  record  says,  the  Savior  suddenly 
appeared  in  their  midst  and  addressing 
himself  to  Thomas,  with  his  unbelief, 
invited  an  examination  of  his  body. 
"Reach  hither  thy  hand,"  said  he,  "and 
thrust  it  into  my  side:  .  .  ."  Whether 


First  Day 

Thomas  did  as  he  was  bid  or  not,  is 
not  clear,  but  at  the  end  of  it,  Thomas 
said,  "My  Lord  and  my  God."  (John 
20:26-28.) 

Thereafter,  or  on  that  same  day,  he 
had  shown  himself  to  Peter  as  was 
disclosed  in  the  report  which  was  made 
by  these  disciples  who  had  seen  him 
on  their  way  to  Emmaus. 

Thereafter,  he  appeared  several  times; 
among  others  he  appeared  to  five  hun- 
dred at  one  time,  and  the  writer  of 
Acts  declared  that  some  were  then  liv- 
ing of  that  five  hundred  when  he  wrote. 

He  appeared  to  the  disciples  and 
talked  with  them  thereafter,  particularly 
on  the  occasion  when  Peter  and  six 
others  of  the  apostles,  apparently,  de- 
cided that  they  would  go  fishing,  that 
everything  was  over.  So  they  went 
fishing.  You  will  all  remember,  I  am  very 
sure,  the  incidents  of  that  fishing  trip. 
The  apostles  had  fished  all  night  and 
caught  nothing.  As  they  neared  the 
shore  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee  they  saw  a 
figure  on  the  shore  by  a  fire.  The  figure 
asked  them  if  they  had  caught  any 
fish.  They  answered  no.  Then  said 
he,  "Cast  the  net  on  the  right  side  of 
the  ship,"  which  they  did,  and  it  was 
filled  with  fish.  Then  John  perceived 
that  this  was  the  Lord  and  so  told  the 
group. 

Peter,  the  impetuous  Peter,  who  some- 
times apparently  talked  before  he 
thought,  cast  himself  over  the  side  of 
the  boat,  having  first  wrapped  himself 
with  his  coat,  for  he  was  naked  and 
did  not  want  to  appear  before  the 
Christ  in  that  kind  of  condition — which 
carries  its  lesson,  I  think,  as  to  chastity 
and  morality  and  modesty — and  he  hur- 
ried to  the  shore.  They  all  went  to  the 
shore.  They  found  there  the  Lord 
whom  they  then  recognized.  He  had 
already  prepared  something  to  eat  and 
invited  them  to  partake  of  it. 

It  is  not  clear  to  me  whether  or  not 
the  Lord  ate  at  that  time,  though  the 
inference  might  be  that  he  did. 

That  was  the  time  when  he  ques- 
tioned Peter  a  bit,  "Simon,  son  of  Jonas, 
lovest  thou  me  more  than  these?"  refer- 
ring, I  assume,  to  the  fish  and  the  food. 
"Yea,  Lord;  thou  knowest  that  I  love 
thee.  .  .  ." 

"Feed  my  lambs."  {Ibid.,  21:15-16.) 

The  second  inquiry  came  and  the 
same  answer,  except  that  at  this  time 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


the  Lord  said,  "Feed  my  sheep."  And 
even  a  third  time  did  this  question 
come,  and  the  third  time  Peter,  with 
what  quite  evidently  was  something  of 
irritation,  said,  "Lord,  thou  knowest  all 
things;  thou  knowest  that  I  love  thee." 

"Feed  my  sheep."  (Idem,  17.) 

A  great  lesson  in  three  words  of  the 
mission  and  duty  of  the  Church  then 
under  organization  and  which  has  been 
the  obligation  and  the  duty  from  that 
day  until  now  of  those  who  possess  the 
priesthood  of  God,  as  we  do. 

Finally,  he  called  them  together  again 
on  a  mount  in  Galilee,  the  disciples, 
and  at  that  time  he  gave  them  the  great 
commission,  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 
and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:15-16.) 

Those  are  the  words  of  the  Christ. 
Then  he  told  them  of  the  signs  which 
should  follow  them  that  believed. 

We,  brethren  and  sisters,  are  the  re- 
cipients of  the  great  blessings  that 
attach  to  the  work  of  the  last  dispensa- 
tion. We  are  also  the  obligees  of  the 
great  responsibilities  which  have  been 
placed  upon  those  whom  God  has 
called  to  lead  this  last  dispensation.  I 
personally  try  to  think  more  frequently 
of  the  obligations  I  have  than  of  the 
blessings  that  I  have  enjoyed,  and  yet 
as  I  cast  my  mind  back  over  a  long  life, 
I  think  of  no  one  in  my  acquaintance 
who  has  received  greater  blessings  of 
health  and  strength  than  have  I  myself, 
for  which  I  am  grateful. 

I  am  grateful,  as  we  all  are,  for  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints  in  our  behalf.  We 
know  we  have  them,  we  know  they  are 
efficacious.  We  pray  that  you  will  over- 
look our  weaknesses  and  failings,  for 
each  and  all  of  us  are  human;  make  us 
humble  but  never  let  us  forget  our  grati- 
tude for  the  blessings  which  we  enjoy. 


The  Lord  is  good  to  us.  He  is  giving 
us  direction  if  we  will  take  it.  I  urge 
you  to  bring  your  thoughts  back,  as  I 
did  last  night,  from  space,  about  which 
we  know  nothing  in  comparison  with 
what  there  is  to  know — and  fix  our 
minds  upon  the  great  powers  and  au- 
thorities which  we  have  as  members  of 
the  priesthood,  representing  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  endowed  with  a  portion  of 
his  authority  to  work  out  his  purposes, 
not  ours. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  gospel,  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  was  a  prophet  raised  up  under 
his  direction,  who  with  his  authorities 
through  the  revelations  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  founded  the  Church.  I  bear  my 
testimony  that  the  same  Spirit  and  the 
same  power  and  the  same  authority  with 
which  he,  the  Prophet  Joseph,  was  in- 
vested, now  exists  in  the  Church  and 
has  since  its  foundation,  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  is  the  recipient  of  that 
power  and  that  authority  today. 

I  urge  upon  you  with  all  the  fervor 
that  I  can  express,  that  we  follow  the 
leadership  of  the  Church,  know  that 
President  McKay  is  the  prophet,  seer, 
and  revelator  of  the  Church,  that  we 
bring  our  lives  into  complete  harmony 
with  the  commandments  of  the  Lord, 
all  to  the  end  that  having  fulfilled  our 
obligations  to  the  dead  and  to  the  living, 
we  may  be  finally  saved  and  exalted 
in  his  presence,  which  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency. Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  will  now 
address  us.  He  is  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  stand 
before  you  this  morning  I  seek  an  in- 
terest in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that 
the  few  words  which  I  may  offer  may 
be  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  that 
they  may  be  in  harmony  with  the  won- 


derful testimony  of  President  Clark  to 
whom  we  have  listened. 

My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  this 
morning  for  many,  many  things.  I  am 
thankful  that  I  have  come  to  appreciate 
and  understand  in  a  measure  the  re- 


8 

Saturday,  April  4 

deeming  work  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that 
through  my  service  I  have  developed  a 
faith  which  I  hope  may  carry  me 
through  to  the  end  of  my  days  in  serv- 
ice, for  I  have  covenanted  with  God  and 
my  fellows  who  surround  me  that  I  shall 
strive  to  serve  in  this  capacity  and  do 
it  well. 

Among  other  things,  I  am  thankful 
that  my  wife  is  able  to  be  here  at  this 
service,  a  manifestation  of  the  power 
that  there  is  in  the  priesthood  when  it 
is  united  with  faith  in  prayer.  I  think 
faith  is  a  most  essential  thing  to  us  as 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints — faith  not  only  in 
ourselves  and  in  our  ability  to  do  the 
things  that  we  have  to  do,  if  we  are 
humble  and  prayerful,  but  faith  in  the 
teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  that  Christ  saw 
fit  to  bring  about  a  restoration  of  his 
Church  in  the  earth  in  the  days  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  organiza- 
tion of  which  was  perfected  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  faith  in  the 
priesthood  which  was  restored  by  heav- 
enly beings.  There  sits  before  me  today 
a  body  of  men  I  think  almost  all  of 
whom  hold  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
and  responsible  office  therein. 

If  we  can  develop  the  faith  that  is 
necessary  for  the  proper  accomplish- 
ment of  our  responsibilities  and  the 
realization  of  the  covenants  which  we 
have  made,  it  will  be  a  wonderful  thing. 

As  I  stand  before  you  today,  there  is 
only  one  of  the  General  Authorities  who 
face  you  who  has  not  moved  into  his 
present  office  since  I  became  a  member 
of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.  My 
memory  goes  back  farther  than  that  to 
the  time  when  Brother  Junius  F.  Wells 
came  into  southern  Utah  to  organize 
the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Association,  and  in  that  time,  which  is 
now  nearly  seventy  years  since  I  was 
a  baptized  member  of  the  Church,  I 
have  known,  and  have  had  more  or 
less  intimate  association  with  most  of 
the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

I  want  to  bear  you  my  testimony, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  over  that 
period  of  years  there  has  grown  in  my 
heart  a  faith  not  only  in  the  plans  of 
God,  of  which  we  have  heard  some- 
thing this  morning,  but  also  in  this  or- 
ganization which  we  call  the  Church 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
in  the  officials  who  have  stood  at  its 
head  over  that  period  of  time.  I  trust 
that  that  faith  may  never  waver. 

Now  in  addition  to  this  type  of  faith 
which  we  must  have  in  the  organiza- 
tion, we  must  develop  a  loyalty  to  it. 
And  what  would  that  mean?  It  would 
mean  that  we  would  recognize  the  obli- 
gation that  comes  upon  us  in  the  cove- 
nant of  baptism  and  in  the  covenant, 
implied  or  actual,  when  we  receive  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  If  we  are  to 
be  loyal  to  those  things,  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  will  live  worthy  of  them.  We 
will  sustain  the  work.  I  grant  you  that 
we  who  stand  as  your  servants  are 
human,  as  you  are,  and  there  may  be 
certain  things  which  may  not  always 
meet  the  approval  of  other  people,  but 
out  of  the  efforts  of  these  Brethren  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  there 
has  come  only  a  desire  to  serve  the 
people,  which  I  believe  represents  an 
inspiration  from  the  Spirit  of  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father.  In  my  association 
with  them  that  has  always  been  mani- 
fest. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  are 
to  be  loyal  to  these  promises  which  we 
have  made,  and  to  this  organization, 
which  we  teach  the  world  is  a  res- 
toration of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
with  all  the  keys  which  ever  existed 
in  any  previous  dispensation,  restored 
to  us,  then  we  must  live  absolutely  true 
to  the  covenants  which  we  have  made 
so  as  to  teach  by  word  of  mouth  and 
by  example  the  power  that  is  inherent 
in  the  priesthood  of  God,  united  with 
a  pure  faith  in  his  work. 

My  wife's  grandfather,  who  lived  into 
his  eighties,  was  always  worried,  and 
said,  "Antoine,  I  am  just  worried  for 
fear  I  will  not  be  able  to  prove  faithful 
to  the  end."  I  grant  you  that  it  is 
possible  for  people  in  their  dotage  to 
make  serious  mistakes,  and  my  hope 
is  that  the  faith  which  I  have  today 
never  wanes,  and  that  I  may  always 
be  worthy  to  serve  you  to  the  best  of 
my  ability.  The  position  I  occupy  came 
unsought  to  me,  and  over  these  years 
I  have  tried  to  get  the  Spirit  of  God  to 
help  me  in  my  ministry. 

May  I  prove  loyal  to  these,  my  Breth- 
ren. May  you  prove  loyal  to  them. 
May  you  prove  loyal  to  the  organization. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


9 


May  you  be  able  to  accept  without  un- 
due criticism  and  faultfinding  the  pro- 
gram— an  inspired  program — which  is 
for  the  benefit  and  upbuilding  of  the 
people,  is  the  humble  prayer  I  offer, 
and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Romney,  will  you  please  come 
forward.  He  to  whom  we  have  just 
listened  is  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy.  Brother  Mar- 
ion G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Brethren  and  sisters:  I  ask  you  to  join 
your  faith  and  prayers  with  mine,  that 
what  I  say  will  be  in  harmony  with 
what  has  already  been  said.  What  I 
have  been  thinking  about  is,  I  believe 
in  harmony  with  President  Clark's  great 
message.  I  pray  that  I  may  have  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  as  I  speak. 

To  suggest  what  I  have  in  mind  to 
say,  I  quote  these  words  which  Jesus 
spake  to  the  unbelieving  Jews:  ".  .  .  if 
ye  believe  not  that  I  am  he,  ye  shall 
die  in  your  sins."  (John  8:24.) 

I  should  like  to  direct  my  remarks 
particularly  to  this  great  group  of 
singers  here  in  the  choir  from  Brigham 
Young  University,  and  to  all  other  stu- 
dents— students  who  are  challenged 
by  the  wonders  of  the  universe,  and 
who  want  to  learn  more  about  them, 
and  at  the  same  time  prove  faithful 
and  true  to  the  faith  of  their  parents. 

Such  a  student  returning  from  a  cele- 
brated eastern  university  recently  said 
in  substance:  "Some  of  my  fellow  stu- 
dents are  apparently  as  well  off  as  we 
are.  They  seemingly  observe  our 
standards  with  respect  to  chastity,  Word 
of  Wisdom,  clean  speech,  and  have  lofty 
ideals.  What  do  we  have  which  they 
do  not  have?  If  there  is  a  difference 
between  us  just  what  is  it?" 

A  little  reflection,  I  believe,  will  sug- 
gest a  number  of  differences,  but  the 
one  I  wish  to  emphasize  this  morning 
is  our  beliefs  and  faith  in  Jesus  Christ — 
not  our  belief  that  there  is  a  God,  but 
rather  our  peculiar  concept  about  his 
nature  and  identity,  and  our  relation- 
ship to  him.  It  is  when  we  descend 
to  particulars  that  the  differences  show 
up.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  seems  that 
belief  in  the  existence  of  a  God  is 
almost  universal.  Thinking  people 
everywhere,  particularly  scientists,  are 


accepting  the  hypothesis  that  there  is  a 
God  who  created  and  is  now  controlling 
the  universe.  The  materialistic  concept 
which  denies  God  altogether  is  being 
replaced  with  the  theory  set  forth  by 
the  late  French  scientist,  Dr.  Pierre 
Lecomte  du  Nouy,  in  his  great  book, 
Human  Destiny.  His  thesis  is  that 
there  is  "an  idea,  a  transcendent  will, 
a  supreme  intelligence,"  an  "anti- 
chance"  sustaining  the  universe.  This 
supreme  intelligence  he  calls  God. 

Aroused  by  what  he  terms  "the  uni- 
versal demoralization"  and  loss  of  faith 
which  has  resulted  from  "paralyzing 
skepticism  and  destructive  materialism," 
he  examines  "critically  the  scientific 
capital  accumulated  by  man":  and  de- 
rives "therefrom  logical  and  rational 
consequences"  which  to  him  and  many 
other  eminent  scientists  "lead  inevitably 
to  the  idea  of  God."  The  existence  of 
such  a  Being  is,  he  concludes,  a  scientific 
fact.  It  is  his  hope  that  the  acceptance 
of  his  thesis  will  supply  men  with  a 
basis,  and  give  them  a  motive  which 
will  sustain  faith  in  God  and  in  the 
high  destiny  of  man — a  faith  which 
will  keep  men  struggling  to  reach  the 
moral  and  spiritual  plane  exemplified  by 
Jesus.  "Men  must  be  made  to  under- 
stand," he  says,  "that  the  important 
thing  is  to  develop  what  is  within 
them,  to  purify  themselves,  to  better 
themselves,  to  come  closer  to  the  per- 
fect ideal  which  is  Christ." 

Now,  of  course,  we  believe  with  him 
that  there  is  a  God  who  is  the  Creator 
and  ruler  of  the  universe.  His  state- 
ment that  God's  purpose  is  to  bring 
men  "closer  to  the  perfect  ideal  which 
is  Christ"  is,  when  interpreted  in  the 
light  of  our  belief  in  Jesus,  in  harmony 
with  the  Lord's  declaration  that  ".  .  . 
this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring 


10  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  4 

to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man."  (Moses  1:39.)  However,  we 
do  not  see  eye  to  eye  with  him  as  to 
the  nature  of  that  perfection,  nor  as 
to  the  process  by  which  it  may  be  at- 
tained. Our  differences  on  these  matters 
arise  from  our  incompatible  beliefs 
about  the  nature  and  the  identity  of 
God  and  Jesus,  and  our  relationship 
to  them.  A  comparison  of  these  beliefs 
will  point  up  the  differences.  As  to  his 
beliefs,  we  will  let  him  speak  for  him- 
self.  First,  as  to  God: 

"Any  effort  to  visualize  God,"  he 
says,  "reveals  a  surprising  childishness. 
We  can  no  more  conceive  Him  than  we 
can  conceive  an  electron."  And  again, 
".  .  .  the  idea  of  God  is  a  pure  idea, 
like  the  idea  of  force,  or  of  energy,  and 
does  not  need  to  be  visualized:  nor  can  it 
be.  .  .  ."  And  finally:  "When  we  were 
led  to  call  on  an  external  action  so  as 
to  account  for  the  birth  of  life  and  the 
development  of  evolution,  we  admitted 
that  the  only  possible,  logical  inter- 
pretation coincided  with  that  which 
recognized  the  existence  of  God.  And 
...  we  were  driven,  in  order  to  explain 
the  universe  and  evolution,  to  accept 
the  idea.  .  .  .  However,  we  were  careful 
not  to  define  the  attributes  of  this  force, 
which  evidently  corresponds  to  the  ad- 
mitted idea  of  God.  We,  therefore, 
used  the  consecrated  name,  but  avoided 
as  much  as  possible  any  anthropo- 
morphic idea." 

Now  of  course  this  is  not  our  concept 
of  God.  But  I  think  we  should  respect 
this  scientist's  desire  to  establish  a 
scientific  basis  for  faith  in  God.  He  did 
the  best  he  could  with  the  light  under 
which  he  worked.  We  will  not  be  dis- 
turbed nor  disappointed  by  his  con- 
clusion if  we  keep  in  mind  the  fact 
that  the  truth  about  Deity  does  not  lie 
within  the  range  of  scientific  research 
nor  philosophical  interpretation,  but 
rather  in  the  field  of  direct  revelation. 

As  to  his  concept  of  Jesus  he  says: 
".  .  .  let  us  not  forget  that  the  perfect 
man  is  not  a  myth;  he  has  existed,  in 
the  person  of  Jesus,"  who  he  says  "can 
be  assimilated,"  [that  is,  likened  or 
compared]  "to  one  of  the  intermediary 
.  .  .  forms,  perhaps  a  million  years  in 
advance  of  evolution." 

Because  they  are  familiar  to  most  of 
us  I  shall  not  here  review  in  detail  our 


First  Day 

beliefs  about  Jesus.  President  Clark  set 
them  forth  with  much  clarity  this 
morning.  But  I  do  submit  to  you  that 
these  postulated  concepts  of  God  and 
Jesus  omit  every  essential  aspect  of  the 
divine  Redeemer  whom  we  worship. 
They  rule  out  his  and  our  pre-existence, 
his  divine  Sonship,  the  fall  of  Adam, 
and  Christ's  atonement,  Christ's  and  our 
resurrection,  his  past,  present,  and  future 
role  in  the  courts  on  high,  and  our 
eternal  progress  and  destiny  in  the 
world  to  come. 

I  repeat  that  in  our  peculiar  beliefs 
and  faith  in  Jesus  Christ,  comprising 
the  foregoing  and  other  revealed  truths 
concerning  him,  we  greatly  differ  from 
other  people  of  the  earth. 

But  does  it  make  any  difference  which 
beliefs  men  accept?  Remembering  that 
Jesus  said  a  tree  may  be  known  by  its 
fruit,  let  us  look  at  this  question  for 
just  a  moment.  One  of  the  fruits  of 
the  foregoing  conceptions  of  Jesus  is 
that  the  good  life  which  he  projected 
may  be  attained  by  accepting  and  ap- 
plying his  so-called  "ethical  and  moral 
teachings"  such  as  those  expressed  in 
the  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  while  at  the 
same  time  denying  his  divinity  and 
ridiculing  the  fundamental  doctrines  of 
his  gospel.  Here  is  a  quotation  from 
one  of  the  most  ardent  proponents  of 
this  theory. 

"What  was  Jesus'  ancestry?  Was  He 
a  descendant  of  Joseph  and  Mary,  or 
of  God  and  Mary?  He  was  a  de- 
scendant of  Joseph  and  Mary.  He  was 
the  most  perfect  human  being  who 
ever  lived,  but  He  was  not  the  Son  of 
God."  And  further,  "belief  in  ...  , 
the  Virgin  Mary,  the  atonement,  trin- 
ity, etc.,  will  not  help  to  make  a  better 
world,  but  belief  in  the  fundamentals 
of  Jesus'  democracy  and  the  social 
values  named  in  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  will."  (The  Good  Society,  by 
Willis,  p.  58.) 

Now  I  submit  to  you  that  all  history, 
including  the  present  state  of  world  af- 
fairs, testifies  that  the  fruits  of  the  teach- 
ings of  Jesus  Christ  cannot  be  had  by 
accepting  some  of  his  teachings,  re- 
jecting the  rest,  and  denying  his  di- 
vinity. Of  all  the  world's  ills,  none  is 
more  tragic  than  the  denial  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  by  so  many 
people  who  profess  to  believe  in  him. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


11 


Another  fruit  of  the  supreme  intel- 
ligence theory  is  that  God  set  a  goal 
for  man,  but  "did  not  prescribe  the 
means"  by  which  that  goal  may  be 
attained.  This  was  left,  so  the  theory 
runs,  for  man  to  discover  by  trial  and 
error.  Such  a  doctrine  is  the  antithesis 
of  our  knowledge  that  Jesus  Christ  pre- 
scribed the  exact  course  by  which  men 
may  come  to  the  perfection  he  en- 
joined. 

"He  marked  the  path  and  led  the  way, 
And  ev'ry  point  defines, 
To  light  and  life  and  endless  day, 
Where  God's  full  presence  shines." 

(Eliza  R.  Snow) 

Now  to  come  directly  to  the  point  of 
these  remarks,  let  us  consider  the  fruits 
of  believing  Jesus  to  be  what  he  claimed 
to  be — the  literal  Son  of  God  in  the 
spirit  and  in  the  flesh;  the  revelation  of 
God  to  man,  the  Redeemer,  our  advo- 
cate with  the  Father.  What  does  such 
a  belief  do  for  one? 

Speaking  generally,  it  becomes  the 
motivating  force  in  one's  life.  Specifical- 
ly, it  induces  one  to  render  obedience  to 
the  initiatory  principles  and  ordinances 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is,  to 
have  faith  in  Jesus,  to  repent,  to  be 
baptized  by  immersion  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  to  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands.  Wholehearted  obedience  to 
these  purifying  and  sanctifying  princi- 
ples and  ordinances  works  in  the  life 
of  the  true  believer  a  far-reaching  mir- 
acle. For  one  thing,  it  confers  upon 
him  membership  in  the  literal  kingdom 
of  God,  identifying  him  as  a  sheep  of 
the  true  Shepherd. 

Through  obedience  to  these  princi- 
ples and  ordinances  there  is  introduced 
into  one's  life  a  new  light,  a  light  which 
conveys  to  his  mind,  and  opens  his 
understanding  to,  ".  .  .  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul, 
.  .  ."  (See  D&C  121:42.)  Such  an  one 
is  in  a  real  sense  readmitted  into  the 
presence  of  God.  The  direct  line  of 
communication  from  God  to  him  is 
reopened.  By  this  he  is  sustained  in  his 
belief  in  Jesus  Christ  with  an  assur- 
ance beyond  the  understanding  of  the 
uninitiated. 

This  great  source  of  pure  knowledge, 
wisdom,  light,  and  intelligence  is,  of 


course,  the  Holy  Ghost  who  the  Savior 
said  would  lead  men  into  all  truth. 
To  understand  and  appreciate  this  great 
gift  it  must  be  experienced.  But  I  bear 
you  witness  that  it  is  real  and  will  work 
a  miracle  in  your  understanding.  You 
will  remember  that  without  it  Peter 
denied  Jesus  on  the  night  of  his  great 
trial.  Possessing  it,  Peter  and  John  de- 
fied their  captors,  (although  those  cap- 
tors had  the  power  to  put  them  to  death 
and  in  a  sense  had  the  disposition 
to  do  so)  with  this  declaration:  ".  .  . 
whether  it  be  right  in  the  sight  of  God 
to  hearken  unto  you  more  than  unto 
God,  judge  ye. 

"For  we  cannot  but  speak  the  things 
which  we  have  seen  and  heard."  (Acts 
4:19-20.)  While  one  enjoys  this  gift, 
his  belief  in  Jesus  Christ  is  secure. 

Now,  the  third  effect  of  complying 
with  these  principles  of  the  gospel  is 
forgiveness  of  sins.  This  is  in  itself  a 
mighty  miracle.  Sin  is  wickedness  and 
".  .  .  wickedness  never  was  happiness." 
(Alma  41:10.) 

Most  of  the  suffering  and  distress 
endured  by  people  of  this  earth  is  the 
result  of  unrepented  and  unremitted 
sin.  Paul  spoke  two  universal  truths 
when  he  said  to  the  Romans,  ".  .  .  the 
wages  of  sin  is  death;  but  the  gift  of 
God  is  eternal  life  through  Jesus  Christ 
our  Lord."  (Romans  6:23.)  Just  as 
suffering  and  sorrow  attend  sin,  so 
happiness  and  joy  attend  forgiveness  of 
sins. 

Alma  said  of  his  suffering  for  sin, 
".  .  .  there  could  be  nothing  so  exquisite 
and  so  bitter  as  were  my  pains,"  and 
then,  speaking  of  the  joy  which  came 
to  him  when,  through  repentance,  he 
had  received  forgiveness,  he  said,  "Yea, 
and  again  I  say  unto  you,  .  .  .  that  on 
the  other  hand,  there  can  be  nothing 
so  exquisite  and  sweet  as  was  my  joy." 
(Alma  36:21.) 

Forgiveness  of  sins  is  prerequisite  to 
a  full  fellowship  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  a  prerequisite  to  en- 
joying the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  As 
a  matter  of  fact  every  blessing  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  predicated  upon 
receiving  forgiveness  of  sins;  for,  as 
Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  no  unclean  thing  can 
enter  into  his  [God's]  kingdom;  there- 
fore, nothing  entereth  into  his  rest  save 
it  be  those  who  have  washed  their 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

garments  in  my  blood,  because  of  their 
faith,  and  the  repentance  of  all  their 
sins,  and  their  faithfulness  unto  the 
end."  (3  Nephi  27:19.)  Then  he  added: 
"Now  this  is  the  commandment:  Re- 
pent, all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and  come 
unto  me  [that  is,  believe  on  me]  and 
be  baptized  in  my  name,  that  ye  may 
be  sanctified  by  the  reception  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  that  ye  may  stand  spotless 
before  me  at  the  last  day."  (3  Nephi 
27:20.) 

In  this  statement  Jesus  Christ  gave  the 
only  prescription  there  is  for  obtaining 
forgiveness  of  sins,  and,  therefore,  the 
only  way  to  happiness,  the  only  way  to 
a  pure  knowledge  of  God  our  Eternal 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Redeemer.  The  following  of  this  pre- 
scription depends  wholly  upon  one's 
belief  in  Jesus  Christ. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  should  the  ques- 
tion arise  as  to,  "What  do  we  have 
which  others  do  not  have?"  we  will 
remember  and  try  to  understand  the 
eternal  truths  implied  in  Jesus'  state- 
ment to  the  unbelieving  Jews,  ".  .  .  if 
ye  believe  not  that  I  am  he,  ye  shall  die 
in  your  sins."  (John  8:24.) 


First  Day 

God  grant  that  each  of  us  may  escape 
such  a  death  by  believing  with  Peter 
that  Jesus  is  "the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God,"  I  humbly  pray  in  his 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  Chorus  and  Congrega- 
tion will  now  join  in  singing,  "How 
Firm  a  Foundation,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Norman  Gulbrandsen.  After  the  sing- 
ing Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen  will 
speak. 

The  congregation  and  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm 
A  Foundation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Wirthlin. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  pray  humbly,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  what  I  shall  say  may  be 
appropriate.  I  have  been  so  uplifted 
by  that  which  has  already  been  spoken 
from  this  pulpit  this  morning,  that  my 
heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  for  the 
goodness  and  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
especially  for  the  absolute  testimony 
that  I  have  of  his  divinity. 

Almost  two  thousand  years  ago  he 
said,  "If  any  man  will  come  after  me 
let  him  deny  himself  and  take  up  his 
cross,  and  follow  me."  (Matt.  16:24.) 
And  again  he  said,  "Let  no  man  be  afraid 
to  lay  down  his  life  for  my  sake;  for 
whoso  layeth  down  his  life  for  my 
sake  shall  find  it  again. 

"And  whoso  is  not  willing  to  lay  down 
his  life  for  my  sake  is  not  my  disciple." 
(D&C  103:27-28.) 

We  can  place  ourselves  in  either  cate- 
gory we  wish. 

In  my  opinion,  one  of  the  noblest 
expressions  of  unselfish  devotion  and  a 


willingness  to  give  of  one's  self  is  found 
in  missionary  work.  We  believe  that 
every  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  the 
capacity  to  so  do  carries  the  obligation 
to  share  with  others  the  truth  of  the 
restored  gospel.  The  depth  of  this  be- 
lief is  adequately  demonstrated  by  the 
more  than  ten  thousand  missionaries 
at  home  and  abroad,  full  time  and  part 
time  according  to  their  calls,  who  are 
serving  at  their  own  expense  in  the 
missions  of  the  world  and  in  the  stake 
missions. 

They  answer  the  calls  to  serve  without 
equivocation  or  hesitancy.  It  matters 
not  one  whit  to  which  land  or  country 
or  clime  they  may  be  assigned,  even 
though  it  might  require  the  learning  of 
a  new  and  difficult  language;  even 
though  it  requires  personal  sacrifice  for 
him  or  his  family  or  both,  he  goes  forth 
and  figuratively  loses  his  life  for  that 
period  of  time  in  the  hope  that  he  may 
bring  to  others  a  newness  of  life  and 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


13 


hope  and  understanding — which  may 
lead  to  salvation. 

Missionary  service  is  not  only  a  test 
of  faith  but  a  real  test  of  character.  This 
is  seen  in  the  remarks  of  a  young  mis- 
sionary who  said:  "In  the  Army  I  was 
forced  to  obey  orders,  but  in  the  mission 
field  I  am  given  instructions  and  then 
placed  on  my  honor.  This  has  been 
to  me  one  of  the  greatest  tests  in  my 
life—" 

Although  a  few  months  have  passed 
since  we  visited  your  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  ten  missions  of  Norway,  Sweden, 
Denmark,  Finland,  Netherlands,  North 
Germany,  West  Germany,  Swiss-Aus- 
tria, France,  and  Great  Britain,  I  wish 
to  fulfil  a  promise  and  bring  the  greet- 
ings, not  only  of  the  missionaries,  the 
mission  presidents  and  their  devoted 
wives,  but  also  of  many  of  the  faithful 
members  in  the  fourteen  countries  that 
comprise  those  missions. 

In  addition  to  our  meetings  with  the 
missionaries  in  report  and  testimony 
meetings,  I  had  the  privilege  of  inter- 
viewing practically  all  of  the  nearly 
twelve  hundred  who  are  laboring  in 
those  various  missions.  It  was  an 
arduous  undertaking,  but  it  was  com- 
pensating and  worth  while  to  look  into 
their  handsome  faces  across  a  table  and 
inquire  about  their  work,  their  thinking, 
and  their  faith,  their  living,  and  to  ask 
about  their  parents  at  home  and  to 
receive  almost  without  exception  the 
assurance  that  they  are  living  clean 
lives,  that  they  are  doing  well  as  am- 
bassadors of  truth,  that  they  know  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  as  it  has  been 
restored,  is  true.  Not  only  can  you  be 
proud  of  them  but  they,  too,  are  proud 
of  you,  their  families  at  home,  and  have 
deep  concern  about  you. 

One  young  missionary  from  Canada 
reported:  "My  greatest  moment  came 
this  morning.  You  see,  my  father  is  a 
baptized  member,  but  he  is  inactive. 
He  was  not  in  favor  of  my  coming  on 
this  mission,  but  this  morning  I  re- 
ceived a  Christmas  card  from  him  on 
which  he  wrote,  'I  am  proud  of  you, 
my  son,  and  I  wish  you  success  on  your 
mission.'  This  has  been  the  best  Christ- 
mas gift  that  my  dad  ever  gave  me." 

In  Denmark,  one  of  these  fine  young 
men  said,  "When  I  received  my  call, 
my   grandfather   was    using  tobacco. 


Then  and  there  he  said  that  he  would 
quit,  and  he  did.  He  never  went  to 
Church  much  before  I  left,  but  now  he 
goes  regularly.  And,  he  has  lately  gone 
to  the  temple.  Now  the  greatest  hope 
that  I  have  is  that  my  dad  will  prepare 
himself  to  go  to  the  temple  with  his 
family  so  that  we  can  enjoy  our  family 
association  forever  as  we  now  do."  He 
said,  "If  my  mission  does  nothing  more 
than  to  bring  my  family  to  a  realization 
that  the  gospel  is  the  most  important 
thing  in  their  lives  it  will  have  been 
worth  while." 

It  is  true  that  parents  live  in  their 
thoughts  every  day  and  almost  every 
hour  with  their  missionary  sons  and 
daughters. 

One  young  man  from  Springville 
said,  "Every  time  my  mother  tells  any- 
one that  she  has  a  son  in  the  mission 
field,  she  can  hardly  keep  from  crying 
because  she  is  so  proud  of  me.  She  feels 
that  I  am  filling  a  mission  for  two.  You 
see,  when  my  father  received  his  call, 
he  was  financially  unable  to  go.  I  am 
determined  to  give  this  mission  the  best 
I  have,  both  for  him  and  for  myself." 

Working  hand  in  hand  with  the  mis- 
sionaries from  the  stakes  of  Zion  there 
are  in  each  of  these  ten  missions  a 
surprising  number  of  local,  full-time 
missionaries  as  well  as  part-time  mis- 
sionaries. The  devotion  of  these  young 
men  and  young  women  as  well  as  their 
effectiveness  are  equal  to  that  of  our 
missionaries  from  America. 

When  we  met  in  Berlin  in  our  con- 
ference, which  was  attended  by  nearly 
six  hundred  members  of  the  Church, 
there  were  present  a  number  from  the 
east  part  of  Berlin.  Among  them  were 
twenty-one  missionaries  who  were  labor- 
ing under  Brother  Berkhardt,  a  coun- 
selor in  the  mission  presidency.  After 
the  general  meeting  we  met  with  them 
and  heard  their  testimonies  and  their 
reports.  It  touched  our  hearts  to  feel 
their  faith,  their  spiritual  strength,  and 
their  love  of  the  gospel.  I  said  to  them 
in  conclusion,  "Remember  that  the 
brethren  and  the  Saints  are  praying  for 
you." 

One  of  them  raised  his  hand  and 
stood  up  and  said,  "Brother  Christian- 
sen, tell  the  Saints  and  the  brethren, 
that  we  are  praying  for  them."  I 
thought  that  was  wonderful  to  think 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

that  they  would  be  concerned  about  our 
well-being. 

Directing  the  labors  of  these  mission- 
aries are  the  mission  presidents  who, 
along  with  their  capable  wives,  are 
carrying  out  their  heavy  assignments 
with  complete  devotion.  I  pay  _my 
tribute  to  their  unselfish  and  efficient 
service. 

In  these  ten  missions  there  are  nearly 
forty-five  thousand  members  of  the 
Church.  I  could  see  that  the  gospel 
is  a  compelling  instrument  in  trans- 
forming the  lives  of  those  who  accept 
it  and  who  live  it. 

One  convert,  a  teacher  in  a  university, 
put  it  this  way:  "It  is  like  coming  out 
of  the  darkness  into  the  light.  It  is  so 
consistent  with  reason,  and  it  gives  un- 
derstanding and  assurance  which  all 
men  need." 

The  faith  of  many  is  something  to 
behold.  In  Heidelberg,  Germany,  a 
local  district  president  stood  before  the 
pulpit  with  one  arm  gone,  having  lost 
it  in  the  war.  He  formerly  was  a  high 
officer  in  the  SS.  Then,  he  carried  out 
the  orders  of  the  war  lords  for  the 
destruction  of  men,  but  now  having  been 
converted  to  the  gospel,  he  stood  before 
this  group  of  Saints,  humbly,  carrying 
out  the  wishes  and  the  plans  of  the 
Lord  for  the  salvation  of  men. 

A  convert  of  a  year  or  so,  living  in 
Hallein,  Austria,  who  is  a  self-supporting 
woman,  insists  on  paying  twenty  per- 
cent in  tithing.  When  we  talked  to 
her,  she  said,  "Why,  I  have  been  a 
member  of  the  Church  only  a  short 
time,  and  I  have  missed  out  on  many 
blessings.  I  feel  that  I  can  never  repay 
the  Lord  for  what  I  have  received  in 
finding  the  truth.  Let  me  go  forward 
with  this  program." 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  felt  a  surge 
of  interest  amongst  the  people  in  those 
missions.  Respect  for  the  Church  and 
even  admiration  on  the  part  of  the 
people,  generally,  is  evident.  This  has 
come  not  only  because  of  a  better  plan 
of  presenting  the  gospel  and  increased 
effectiveness  of  the  missionaries,  but 
also  where  new  buildings  of  our  own 
design  have  been  erected  it  is  not  diffi- 
cult to  see  that  the  respect  and  the 
interest  of  the  people,  beyond  that  of 
curiosity,  has  increased  and  a  wider 
interest  is  manifested  by  many  fine  peo- 
ple. 


First  Day 

Where  public  meetings  were  held  in 
our  own  buildings  the  attendance  of 
friends  and  investigators  was  far  be- 
yond our  expectations.  Fifteen  build- 
ings were  dedicated  in  these  missions 
on  this  tour. 

I  found  that  in  place  of  mere  toler- 
ance there  is  an  ever-increasing  desire 
to  recognize  and  to  investigate,  and  I 
am  convinced  that  an  epoch  of  growth 
and  progress  is  immediately  before  us 
in  the  various  missions  in  Europe  and 
Scandinavia.  In  practically  every  city, 
except  in  one  mission  where  the  state 
has  not  recognized  this  Church  as  such, 
we  were  visited  by  polite,  interested  re- 
porters who  gave  very  good  and  honest 
publicity.  Twenty-six  reporters  at- 
tended a  news  conference  in  the  city  of 
Berlin  and  stayed  for  an  hour  and 
fifteen  minutes  asking  pertinent  ques- 
tions about  the  Church.  I  was  in- 
formed that  very  acceptable  newspaper 
articles  appeared  in  the  press  the 
following  day. 

The  presence  of  the  Swiss  and  the 
London  temples  has  had  a  very  definite 
and  noticeable  effect  upon  the  people 
in  the  areas  surrounding  them  and  far 
into  the  other  lands  as  well.  These 
temples  bring  to  Europe  not  only  a 
newness  to  the  landscape,  but  more 
importantly,  they  bring  also  a  newness 
of  thought  and  of  purpose  to  the  lives 
of  thousands  of  people  who  know  about 
them  and  their  purposes. 

This  newness  of  life's  purpose  is  ex- 
pressed in  the  words  of  a  visitor  to  the 
London  Temple  prior  to  its  dedication. 
After  the  nature  of  the  work  to  be  done 
in  the  temple  had  been  explained,  mem- 
bers of  the  group  were  asked  if  they 
wished  to  comment  or  ask  questions. 
One  said,  "I  can  say  nothing.  I'm  over- 
whelmed because  of  the  beautiful  and 
desirable  principles  that  have  been  re- 
vealed to  me  here  today."  People  are 
still  coming  onto  the  grounds,  feeling 
the  influence  of  those  sacred  edifices 
and  learning  from  the  guides  there  the 
true  purpose  of  life  and  of  salvation. 

I  was  instructed,  by  the  First  Presi- 
dency, to  encourage  the  members  to 
engage  in  genealogical  research.  I  did 
this  to  the  best  of  my  ability.  I  was 
pleased  to  note  the  willing  response 
and  the  certain  interest  that  was  mani- 
fested on  the  part  of  the  Saints  every- 
where and  to  find  that  now  in  almost 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  W1RTHL1N 


15 


every  district  there  is  a  genealogical 
organization  set  up  with  men  and 
women  who  have  considerable  under- 
standing as  to  the  procedures  of  gene- 
alogical research. 

I  am  happy  to  return  in  service  to 
the  Church  and  to  the  Lord  a  little 
of  that  which  I  have  received  in  such 
abundance.  I  am  happy  to  bear  my 
testimony.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Redeemer,  the  Savior  of  mankind.  I 
know  that  the  gospel  has  been  restored 
according  to  the  promise  of  the  Lord 
through  his  prophets  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  the  instrument  in  his  hands; 
that  all  Presidents  of  the  Church  were 
and  are  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators. 
I  know  that  in  due  time  of  the  Lord 
our  testimonies  will  be  vindicated,  be- 


cause in  the  words  of  another,  "Truth 
like  the  sun  permits  itself  to  be  ob- 
scured, but  like  the  sun  only  for  a 
time." 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  be 
true  and  faithful,  I  pray,  humbly,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  given  us  that  glimpse  of 
his  recent  visit  to  Europe  is  Elder  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  will  now  address  us, 
and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Le- 
Grand  Richards,  who  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


President  McKay,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  sincerely  hope  that  I  may  have 
the  inspiration  and  guidance  necessary 
to  express  to  you  one  or  two  thoughts. 

I  have  been  thinking  about  the  Israel- 
ites when  they  were  in  Egypt  and  were 
slaves,  but  through  the  guidance  and 
direction  of  the  Prophet  Moses,  it  was 
possible  for  them  to  become  free  and 
leave  Egypt  and  go  to  the  Promised 
Land.  The  Lord  gave  them  inspiration 
through  Moses  and  guided  them  which 
built  them  up  in  the  faith  that  God 
actually  lived  and  that  in  the  future, 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  would  appear 
upon  the  earth.  He  gave  them  the  Ten 
Commandments.  I  draw  to  your  atten- 
tion the  eighth  commandment.  I  shall 
only  read  part  of  it.  The  Lord  said, 
"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it 
holy. 

"Six  days  shalt  thou  labour,  and  do 
all  thy  work: 

"But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of 
the  Lord  thy  God:  .  .  ."  (Exodus  20:8- 
10.) 

As  the  Israelites  traveled  along,  they 
forgot  the  Ten  Commandments.  They 
gathered  together  their  gold  and  built 
the  golden  calf  which  they  worshiped 
in  place  of  the  Lord,  and  they  forgot 
the  Lord's  day — the  Sabbath  day.  They 
failed  to  meet  together  on  the  Sabbath 
day  and  thank  the  Lord  for  all  of  the 


blessings  that  he  bestowed  upon  them, 
namely  freedom  and  the  right  to  hold 
the  Promised  Land. 

This  event  with  reference  to  keeping 
the  Sabbath  day  holy  by  commandment 
from  God  took  place  3,500  years  ago. 
Two  thousand  years  ago,  the  Christ 
taught  the  world  to  keep  the  Sabbath 
day  holy,  for  he  declared,  "And  he  said 
unto  them,  The  sabbath  was  made  for 
man,  and  not  man  for  the  sabbath:" 
(Mark  2:27.)  Conditions  in  the  world 
then  as  of  today  indicate  that  man  is 
made  for  the  Sabbath  and  not  the  Sab- 
bath for  man.  Brethren  and  sisters,  if 
people  will  give  consideration  of  the 
Sabbath  as  a  holy  day  and  remember 
God  who  has  given  them  life  as  their 
Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  as 
their  older  Brother,  meeting  together 
in  priesthood  meeting  and  Sacrament 
meeting  with  the  attitude  of  prayer, 
they  will  be  blessed,  guided,  and  di- 
rected by  divine  inspiration  whereby 
they  can  bear  testimony  that  God  ac- 
tually lives  and  that  Christ  is  his  Son. 

Again,  it  was  necessary  for  the  Lord 
to  make  it  clear  to  the  people  that  the 
Sabbath  day  is  his  day,  a  holy  day,  for 
on  August  7,  1831,  one  hundred  and 
twenty-seven  years  ago,  an  American 
Prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  received  a  revela- 
tion from  the  Lord,  "And  that  thou 
mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

from  the  world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the 
house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacra- 
ments upon  my  holy  day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed 
unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most 
High;  .  .  ."  (D&C  59:9-10.) 

We  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  accept  this  marvelous 
revelation,  and  we  accept  and  look  upon 
the  Sabbath  day  of  the  Lord  as  the  most 
sacred  day  of  the  week.  As  a  people, 
we  have  a  great  responsibility  not  only 
living  the  gospel  but  also  in  constantly 
keeping  the  Sabbath  day  of  the  Lord 
holy  and  sacred,  thereby  setting  an 
example  to  the  world  as  a  whole. 

The  Sabbath  day  is  indeed  a  day  of 
rest  and  one  wherein  we  express  our 
appreciation  to  the  Lord  for  the  many 
blessings  that  we  have  and  do  receive. 

As  the  Israelites  worshiped  the  golden 
calf,  in  many  respects  in  various  areas 
the  golden  calf  is  again  being  worshiped 
wherein  nations  and  individuals  are  in- 
terested in  the  matter  of  recreation,  the 
earning  of  money,  farming,  and  differ- 
ent kinds  of  other  businesses  on  the 
Sabbath  day,  all  of  which  is  contrary 
to  the  mind  and  will  of  him  who  gave 
us  life,  even  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  am  positively  sure  that  after  the  or- 
ganization of  the  Church  on  April  6, 
1830,  the  membership  kept  the  Sabbath 
day  holy.  Originally,  they  were  in  New 
York,  Ohio,  Missouri,  and  finally  Illi- 
nois and  were  driven  out  of  Nauvoo 
by  their  enemies.  The  Prophet  had 
borne  his  testimony  of  the  existence  of 
God  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  for  he  saw  them  and  lost  his 
life  for  bearing  this  testimony;  but  an- 
other new  prophet  was  selected,  even 
Brigham  Young,  who  led  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  in  making  the  long 
trip  across  the  plains  to  the  area  of 
these  mountains  where  the  Church  is 
now  located  and  where  we,  its  mem- 
bership, have  the  privilege  of  dwelling. 
The  pioneers  on  Sunday  recognized  the 
day  of  the  Lord — the  Sabbath.  They 
thanked  him  for  all  the  blessings  that 
had  been  bestowed  upon  them.  They 
partook  of  the  Sacrament  and  received 
inspiration  and  divine  guidance  from 
their  leadership  which  included  the 
prophet  and  members  of  the  twelve. 
The  pioneers  not  only  accepted  the 
Sabbath  day  as  the  Holy  Day  of  the 


First  Day 

Lord  as  they  traveled  over  the  plains, 
but  also  after  arriving  here  and  in 
various  areas  they  saw  to  it  that  the 
Sabbath  day  was  a  holy  day  wherein 
they  held  Sacrament  meeting  and  gave 
consideration  to  the  Holy  Priesthood 
which  they  held.  They  looked  upon 
one  another  as  brethren  and  sisters,  sons 
and  daughters  of  God,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
his  Son,  as  their  older  Brother.  The 
pioneers  have  set  us  a  great  example 
with  reference  to  keeping  the  Sabbath 
day  holy,  and  therein  we  have  a  great 
responsibility  in  so  teaching  the  world 
the  holiness  of  the  Sabbath  day  by  the 
kind  of  example  we  set.  We  have  many 
opportunities  not  only  for  ourselves  but 
for  others;  for  example,  the  great  Sun- 
day School  organization  is  available  to 
teach  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  revealed 
through  Jesus  Christ  and  the  prophets 
from  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
down  to  the  present  time.  Brigham 
Young  declared  upon  one  occasion,  "In 
some  of  our  Wards  and  settlements  the 
administering  of  the  Sacrament  has  been 
introduced  in  the  Sunday  Schools.  It  is 
very  pleasing  and  gratifying  to  the  spirit 
that  I  possess,  for  the  parents  to  see  that 
their  children  attend  Sunday  school  and 
receive  the  proper  instruction  with  re- 
gard to  their  faith.  After  the  Sunday 
school  is  over,  let  the  parents  take  the 
pains  to  bring  their  children  to  meet- 
ings." (Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol.  19, 
page  92.)  He  recognized  the  most  im- 
portant meeting  of  the  week — the  Sac- 
rament meeting  on  the  day  of  the  Lord, 
the  day  when  they  should  come  together 
and  partake  of  the  Sacrament  and  re- 
member exactly  what  the  Christ  had 
done  in  dying  for  all  men  and  making 
it  possible  for  us  to  have  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  for  our  salvation, 
our  guidance  and  our  direction.  I  pray 
the  day  will  come  that  all  of  these  men 
of  the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood will  attend  Sunday  morning  priest- 
hood meeting,  Sunday  School,  and 
particularly  the  Sacrament  meeting. 

There  comes  to  my  mind  the  history 
of  a  wonderful  man.  I  knew  him  at  the 
age  of  twelve.  His  name  was  Jesse 
Knight.  As  a  boy  I  lived  with  my 
family  in  Eureka,  Utah,  until  I  arrived 
at  the  age  of  fourteen,  and  during  my 
boyhood  days,  I  knew  and  came  in  con- 
tact with  Jesse  Knight.  He  opened  up 
five  of  the  great  mines  in  the  Eureka 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


17 


area  and  became  a  very  wealthy  man, 
but  with  all  of  it,  he  was  an  active 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  He  paid  his  tith- 
ing and  made  contributions  to  the 
Church,  and  particularly  to  Brigham 
Young  University,  but  in  spite  of  his 
wealth  and  greatness,  he  did  not  seek 
the  golden  calf.  He  was  one  of  those 
individuals  who  accepted  the  Sabbath 
day  as  the  day  of  the  Lord.  On  the 
Sabbath  day,  his  mines  were  closed. 
His  miners  had  the  opportunity  of  rest 
and  of  attending  their  various  meet- 
ings. There  was  erected  a  mining  camp 
which  carried  his  name,  Knightsville, 
wherein  he  immediately  saw  to  it  that 
a  chapel  was  erected,  a  ward  was  or- 
ganized, and  at  the  head  of  this  ward 
as  bishop  was  John  Roundy,  the  general 
superintendent  of  all  of  these  mines. 
I  knew  him  when  I  was  a  boy  and 
up  until  the  time  he  passed  away  some 
few  years  ago.  But  the  thought  is 
this,  that  to  Jesse  Knight  the  Sabbath 
day  was  a  holy  day  not  only  for  himself 
but  also  for  all  of  those  who  were  em- 
ployed by  him.  Upon  closing  his  mines 
on  the  Sabbath  day  there  were  other 
individuals  who  owned  mines  in  the 
area  who  complained,  indicating  that 
closing  the  mines  on  Sunday  would 
create  difficulty  for  them,  but,  never- 
theless, Brother  Knight  went  ahead  and 
closed  his  mines.  In  a  short  time,  the 
owners  of  these  other  mines  soon  fol- 
lowed his  example,  and  in  this  large 
mining  camp  for  several  years  all 
miners  had  the  privilege  of  attending 
their  meetings  and  keeping  the  day  of 
the  Lord  holy  which  unfortunately  has 
since  changed  wherein  the  holy  day  of 
the  Lord  is  forgotten  in  many  such 
areas. 

Once  again,  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
bear  testimony  to  you  that  if  we  will 
keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy,  the  Lord 
will  bless  us,  guide  us,  inspire  us,  and 
direct  us  in  solving  our  many  problems. 
The  Lord  will  never  forget  us  if  we  do 
not  forget  him.  The  Apostle  Paul  said, 
"For  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not  meat 
and  drink;  but  righteousness,  and 
peace,  and  joy  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 
(Romans  14:17.)  Do  you  suppose  that 
we  can  enjoy  righteousness  and  peace 
and  joy  in  the  Holy  Ghost  if  we  fail 
to  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy?  With 


reference  to  the  statement  of  the  Apos- 
tle Paul,  "For  the  kingdom  of  God  is 
not  meat  and  drink; . . ."  he  had  in  mind 
of  keeping  the  Sabbath  day  unholy  by 
participating  in  recreation  and  the  open- 
ing of  businesses  on  the  Sabbath  day, 
all  of  which  is  contrary  to  the  mind  and 
will  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

How  inspiring  it  is  to  thank  the  Lord 
in  our  homes,  and  not  only  in  our 
homes,  but  to  have  the  privilege  of 
coming  together  on  the  Sabbath  day  in 
Sacrament  meeting  and  expressing  our 
gratitude  and  thanks  for  the  many 
blessings  that  we  have  and  do  receive 
from  day  to  day. 

I  again  draw  to  your  attention  the 
statement  of  the  Prophet  Moses  over 
3,500  years  ago  when  he  said,  "Remem- 
ber the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy. 
Six  days  shalt  thou  labour,  and  do  all 
thy  work:  But  the  seventh  day  is  the 
sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God:  .  .  ." 
(Ex.  20:8-10.)  And  the  statement  of  the 
Christ  2,000  years  ago  wherein  he 
declared,  "And  he  said  unto  them,  The 
sabbath  was  made  for  man,  and  not 
man  for  the  sabbath: 

"Therefore  the  Son  of  man  is  Lord 
also  of  the  sabbath."  (Mark  2:27-28.) 
And  the  revelation  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  "And  that  thou  mayest  more 
fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the 
world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of 
prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed 
unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most 
High;"  (D&C  59:9-10.) 

In  conclusion,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  bear  testimony  to  you  if  we  will 
follow  and  live  the  words  of  the  Prophet 
Moses,  of  Jesus  Christ  the  Son  of  God, 
and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  a  divine 
prophet,  in  keeping  the  Sabbath  day 
holy,  the  Lord,  in  turn,  will  bless  us, 
guide  us,  direct  us,  and  inspire  us, 
which  I  pray  will  be  the  blessing  of  all 
of  us,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church.  Our  concluding 
speaker  will  be  Elder  LeGrand  Richards 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


18 

Saturday,  April  4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First  Day 


I  am  very  happy,  brothers  and  sisters, 
to  have  the  privilege  of  attending  this 
conference  with  you.  I  rejoice  in  my 
membership  in  the  Church  and  in  the 
faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the 
work  that  they  are  accomplishing  for 
good  in  the  world. 

Last  night  we  were  told  in  our  mis- 
sionary conference  meeting  here,  that 
during  1958  we  had  33,330  convert 
baptisms  into  the  Church.  Now  that 
represents  a  lot  of  work,  and  it  represents 
people  who  have  left  the  teachings  of 
their  youth  and  joined  this  Church 
because  the  Lord  has  given  them  a 
witness  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
that  this  work  is  truly  divine. 

I  returned  a  week  ago  from  touring 
the  West  Spanish-American  Mission, 
among  our  Spanish-speaking  people.  I 
was  impressed  as  I  listened  to  President 
Christiansen  here  today  tell  of  the  testi- 
monies he  heard  while  touring  the  mis- 
sions of  Europe.  Such  testimonies  you 
hear  wherever  you  go.  One  little  Mexi- 
can widow  we  met  while  touring  the 
mission,  left  with  six  little  children,  and 
asked  to  bear  her  testimony,  thanked 
the  Lord  that  she  had  the  gospel  now 
to  raise  her  children  by.  That  was 
typical  of  many  of  the  testimonies  we 
heard. 

Recently  at  a  conference  in  Arizona, 
a  prominent  banker,  who  had  just 
joined  the  Church,  said,  "This  Church 
is  not  just  a  religion,  it  is  a  way  of 
life."  And  when  you  find  the  joy  and 
the  happiness  that  come  to  people 
through  accepting  the  gospel,  it  makes 
you  feel  as  if  we  should  put  forth 
every  effort  in  our  power  to  share  our 
message  with  all  of  our  Father's  chil- 
dren. 

The  Lord  indicated  when  he  gave  the 
signs  of  his  second  coming,  that  this 
gospel  of  the  kingdom,  the  gospel  that 
he  preached,  the  gospel  that  he  left 
with  his  twelve,  would  be  preached  in 
all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  na- 
tions, and  then  should  the  end  come. 

It  is  not  that  we  expect  everybody 
will  accept  the  truth,  because  their 
minds  are  blinded,  but  if  they  would, 
it  would  greatly  enrich  their  lives.  I 


thought  as  I  listened  to  these  testi- 
monies, that  if  I  could  have  the  desire 
of  my  heart  above  all  other  things,  it 
would  be  that  all  men  everywhere,  our 
Father's  sons  and  daughters,  might  share 
with  us  the  glorious  truths  of  the  re- 
stored gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  think  I  felt  like  Alma  of  old.  After 
hearing  the  testimonies  of  his  brethren 
of  their  experiences  in  the  mission  field, 
he  made  this  statement: 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could 
have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump 
of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the 
earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every 
people!"  (Alma  29:1.) 

On  Wednesday  of  this  week,  we  spent 
eight  and  one-half  hours  listening  to 
our  mission  presidents.  Thirty-eight 
of  them  spoke  and  bore  their  witness  of 
the  joy  they  found  in  their  labors,  and 
of  the  happiness  that  comes  to  those 
who  accept  the  gospel,  and  of  the 
miraculous  manner  in  which  the  Lord 
had  led  some  of  the  missionaries  to  the 
homes  of  those  who  have  been  seeking 
after  truth. 

So  I  feel  that  the  greatest  desire  of 
our  hearts  should  be  to  share  this  mes- 
sage with  all  the  world. 

One  of  our  noted  commentators  is  re- 
ported to  have  said  that  he  was  once 
asked  what  message  could  be  broadcast 
to  the  world  that  would  be  considered 
more  important  than  any  other,  and 
he  said,  after  giving  it  consideration, 
he  decided  that  to  be  able  to  broadcast 
to  the  world  that  a  man  who  had  lived 
upon  this  earth  and  had  died  had 
returned  again  with  a  message  from 
God,  would  be  the  greatest  message  that 
could  be  broadcast  to  the  world. 

That  being  true,  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  the  greatest  message.  You  have 
heard  the  testimony  borne  this  morning 
that  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared 
to  the  boy,  Joseph  Smith.  You  listened 
to  President  Clark  tell  of  the  doubt  in 
the  hearts  of  even  the  followers  and  the 
apostles  of  Jesus  when  the  report  came 
to  them  from  the  women  that  he  was 
not  in  the  tomb  but  that  he  was  risen, 
and  they  thought  it  was  an  idle  tale. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


19 


When  we  talk  today  of  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  coming  back 
to  this  earth  and  holy  messengers  visit- 
ing this  earth  in  our  day,  the  world 
thinks  that  these  are  idle  tales  and  yet 
they  profess  to  believe  in  the  Bible, 
how  the  Lord  appeared  to  the  prophets 
of  old  and  the  Bible  bears  witness  that 
he  is  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and 
forever  without  shadow  of  changing, 
and  how  can  they  believe  in  that  kind 
of  a  God  and  then  believe  that  the 
heavens  are  sealed  so  that  he  cannot 
talk  to  us  today  as  he  did  in  days  of  old. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  those  who  are 
not  members  of  the  Church  who  might 
be  listening  in  over  the  air,  or  those 
who  are  here  present  today,  that  our 
witness  is  true.  We  know  it  is  true, 
and  someday,  if  you  have  listened  to 
our  testimonies  and  you  do  not  go  to 
the  trouble  to  find  out  whether  these 
testimonies  are  true  or  not,  you  are 
going  to  be  held  accountable;  for  our 
message  is  to  be  preached  in  all  the 
world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations. 

I  have  thought  that  it  would  not  be 
necessary  to  study  everything  and  read 
all  the  scriptures  if  one  really  wanted 
to  know  if  our  message  is  true.  There 
is  no  other  message  like  it  in  all  the 
world;  no  other  people  profess  an  open- 
ing of  the  heavens  and  the  visitation 
to  this  earth  of  holy  messengers  in  our 
day;  for  the  most  tangible  evidence  of 
the  truth  of  the  story  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  is  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  dis- 
tributed by  millions  of  copies  all  over 
the  world,  and  there  are  many,  even 
not  members  of  the  Church,  who  believe 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true. 

Just  read  the  testimony  of  the  three 
witnesses  in  the  front  of  every  book, 
where  they  testify  that  an  angel  of 
God  came  down  from  heaven,  and  he 
brought  and  laid  before  their  eyes,  that 
they  beheld  and  saw  the  plates  and 
the  engravings  thereon,  and  the  angel 
declared  unto  them  that  they  were  trans- 
lated by  the  gift  and  the  power  of  God. 

Why  cannot  the  world  believe  such 
a  testimony  as  that?  And  then  there 
is  the  testimony  of  the  eight  witnesses 
to  whom  the  Prophet  was  privileged 
to  show  the  plates.  Then  there  is  the 
testimony  that  comes  from  those  who 
accept  the  gospel. 


I  attended  a  conference  recently 
where  a  young  woman,  a  convert,  the 
mother  of  two  little  children,  was  asked 
to  bear  her  testimony.  She  said  some- 
thing like  this: 

"When  the  elders  came  into  my  home, 
they  read  me  the  promise  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  that  when  that  book  came 
to  us,  if  we  would  read  it,  asking  God 
the  Eternal  Father  in  sincerity,  that  the 
Lord  would  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto 
us  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

She  said,  "I  believed  that  promise,  and 
I  went  into  my  bedroom  and  got  down 
on  my  knees  and  asked  God  the  Eternal 
Father  to  let  me  know  whether  that 
book  was  true  or  not,  and  I  read  it,  and 
my  whole  soul  was  illumined,  and  I 
knew  that  it  was  divine." 

We  had  a  man  here  as  a  tourist  on 
Temple  Square  a  few  years  ago,  a 
minister  from  Texas,  and  after  returning 
home  he  wrote  a  letter  back  saying 
that  he  had  purchased  a  copy  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  He  said,  "I  have  a 
library  of  important  books  that  cost  me 
over  twelve  thousand  dollars,  but  I  have 
one  book  that  is  more  valuable  than 
them  all  because  it  is  the  word  of  God 
and  it  is  the  Book  of  Mormon." 

Just  recently  a  letter  came  in  to  the 
headquarters  of  the  Church  from  a 
minister  in  the  East.  He  said  he  bought 
a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  years 
ago  from  a  Mormon  elder  who  called 
at  his  home.  He  said,  "I  put  it  in  my 
library.  I  never  read  it  until  recently, 
and  now  I  have  been  reading  it,  and  I 
have  been  quoting  from  it  in  my  ser- 
mons." In  his  letter  he  mentioned  the 
words  of  Alma  and  the  words  of  Nephi 
out  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  he 
had  used  in  the  preparation  of  his  ser- 
mons. 

Why  cannot  the  world  believe?  Why 
cannot  they  accept  it?  Some  of  you 
remember  a  few  years  ago  how  Brother 
Nicholas  G.  Smith  told  us  of  being  in- 
vited by  the  dean  of  religion  at  the 
University  of  Southern  California  in 
California  to  lend  him  a  copy  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  gave  him 
a  copy  used  by  the  missionaries  that 
had  passages  underlined  in  red  ink,  or 
a  lead  pencil,  and  that  minister  invited 
Brother  Smith  and  the  missionaries  to 
attend  his  next  meeting  in  his  own 
parish,  and  he  stood  before  his  people 


20  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  4 

and  read  verse  after  verse  that  had  been 
underlined  by  the  missionaries,  and 
then  he  said  something  like  this: 

"Why  cannot  we  fellowship  a  people 
who  believe  in  such  wonderful  things 
as  I  have  been  reading  to  you  here  to- 
day?" And  then  he  went  on  to  say, 
"We  have  here  a  volume  of  scripture 
which  has  been  in  our  midst  a  hundred 
years,  and  we  have  not  known  anything 
about  it." 

I  see  that  my  time  has  gone.  I  love 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  know  that  no 
honest  soul  searching  after  God  can 
study  that  book  without  knowing  that 
it  is  divine,  that  it  was  not  written  by 
Joseph  Smith;  and  when  it  is  evident 
that  it  is  what  it  purports  to  be,  a 
volume  of  scripture  that  the  Bible  prom- 
ised should  come  forth  in  our  day,  then 
all  of  the  message  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  is  true,  then  they  will  open  their 
hearts  and  their  minds  to  the  messages 
of  Moroni,  John  the  Baptist,  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  Moses,  Elijah,  Elias, 
the  prophets  who  have  visited  this 
earth  in  the  restitution  of  all  things 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began,  which 
Peter  declared  and  promised  would  oc- 
cur in  this  world  before  the  coming  of 
Christ. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  was  preserved 
to  be  a  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Eternal  God,  manifesting  himself 
unto  all  nations. 

In  1934  a  questionnaire  was  sent  out 
to  five  hundred  Protestant  ministers 
by  the  Northwestern  University,  and 
out  of  500,  130  of  them  denied  the 
Deity  of  Jesus.  When  the  blind  lead 
the  blind,  Jesus  said  ".  .  .  both  shall  fall 
into  the  ditch."  (Matt.  15:14.) 

We  invite  all  men  everywhere  to 
make  an  investigation,  and  we  promise 
them  as  servants  of  the  Living  God  that 
they  can  know  that  this  work  is  divine 
and  that  is  my  testimony  to  you,  and  I 
give  it  to  you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 


First  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Worthy  Is  the  Lamb,"  conducted  by 
Norman  Gulbrandsen.  The  closing 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Frank 
D.  Parry,  formerly  president  of  the 
Uruguayan  Mission,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  believe  I  will 
take  just  a  minute  and  digress  from 
our  usual  policy.  You  are  thrilled  this 
morning  with  the  presence  of  these 
young  people  from  the  Brigham  Young 
University.  Many  of  them,  perhaps  all, 
I  do  not  know,  will  be  heard  in  a  great 
musical  production  based  on  the  history 
of  the  Mormon  Battalion  which  the 
Brigham  Young  University  is  presenting 
in  Provo  the  last  of  this  month  and  June 
first,  second,  and  third.  They  call  it, 
"Sand  in  Their  Shoes."  Because  of  the 
historic  significance  of  this  play  and 
the  sacrifice  and  suffering  of  the  brave 
men  and  women  who  made  this  trek, 
I  believe  that  all  members  of  the  Church 
who  can  possibly  attend  that  will  be 
highly  pleased  and  well  paid  for  their 
effort.  I  have  heard  it  said  that  in 
many  ways  this  play  will  be  com- 
parable to  the  Hill  Cumorah  Pageant. 

Success  to  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity in  that  great  play.  We  appre- 
ciate very  much  your  singing  today  and 
your  presence. 

We  shall  now  hear  the  Choir  sing, 
"Worthy  Is  the  Lamb,"  and  the  bene- 
diction by  Elder  Frank  D.  Parry. 


An  anthem,  "Worthy  Is  The  Lamb," 
was  sung  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Frank  D.  Parry,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  Uruguayan  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  at  2:00 
p.m.,  Saturday,  April  4. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  meeting, 
opened  the  services  of  this,  the  second 
session,  by  making  the  following  re- 
marks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Among  the  educators  whom  we  wel- 
comed this  morning,  we  omitted  Dr. 
Howard  S.  McDonald  of  the  Los  Angeles 
State  College.  We  welcome  him.  We 
also  omitted  making  mention  of  a  group 
of  seminary  students.  This  note  was 
handed  to  me  since  our  dismissal  from 
this  morning's  meeting:  "In  the  balcony 
on  your  left"  (that  is,  this  morning,  we 
hope  they  are  here  now)  "are  forty 
seminary  students  from  Arimo,  Idaho, 
who  boarded  a  bus  at  three  o'clock  this 
morning  in  order  to  be  here  early."  If 
you  happen  to  doze  this  afternoon,  we 
shall  understand  why.  We  welcome 
you. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple 
Square  in  the  second  session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Twenty-ninth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  All  of  the  General 
Authorities  are  present  this  afternoon 
as  they  were  this  morning.  This  ses- 
sion, as  the  one  this  morning,  will  be 
broadcast  as  a  public  service  over  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  throughout  the 
West.  These  services  are  also  being 
broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  by  television. 

We  are  favored  again  by  the  pres- 
ence of  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined    Choruses,    with  Professor 


Ralph  Woodward  conducting.  Elder 
Roy  M.  Darley  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  rendering,  "His  Yoke  Is  Easy." 
The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  C.  Leland  Davey,  president  of 
the  Cannon  Stake. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  conducted  by  Ralph 
Woodward,  with  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ,  sang  the  selection,  "His  Yoke  Is 
Easy." 

Elder  C.  Leland  Davey,  president  of 
the  Cannon  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  C.  Leland  Davey,  president  of 
the  Cannon  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. The  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses  will  now  favor  us 
with,  "O  Lord,  Our  God,  Vouchsafe 
Thy  Grace,"  conducted  by  Professor 
Ralph  Woodward. 

Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will 
speak  following  the  singing. 


"O  Lord,  Our  God,  Vouchsafe  Thy 
Grace,"  was  sung  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
will  be  our  first  speaker,  and  he  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Alma  Sonne. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  need 
the  help  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
Elder  Christiansen  reported  his  visit  to 
the  various  branches  of  the  Church  in 
Europe.  I  made  a  promise  to  the  good 
members  of  the  Church  in  the  far 


Pacific  that  when  I  returned  I  would 
remember  them  to  you  and  express  to 
you  their  love  and  fellowship.  It  is  a 
glorious  thing  to  go  into  a  country,  one 
so  far  away,  and  find  members  of  the 
Church  who  think  and  act  just  as  we 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

do  here,  with  the  same  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
am  fulfilling  my  promise  in  expressing 
to  you  their  goodwill  and  fellowship. 

For  the  few  minutes  that  I  have  I 
would  like  to  take  a  text  from  the  words 
of  our  Savior,  ".  .  .  except  a  man  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(John  3:5.) 

I  am  firmly  convinced  that  nowhere 
else  in  the  world,  outside  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is 
there  anyone  who  has  the  authority  to 
perform  the  ordinances  that  would  bring 
the  birth  of  the  water  and  of  the  Spirit 
to  mankind.  That  would  have  to  be 
from  someone  who  has  the  authority  of 
the  priesthood  of  God,  and  that  author- 
ity was  revealed  in  these  latter-days,  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  first  by  John  the 
Baptist  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  then  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  under  the  hands 
of  Peter,  James,  and  John,  also  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery. 

And  from  that  source  we  have  ob- 
tained the  priesthood  of  God  by  which 
we  act  and  by  which  we  go  forth  into 
the  world  to  preach  the  gospel  to  those 
who  sit  in  darkness.  I  know  this  state- 
ment is  not  pleasing  to  the  great  ma- 
jority of  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  but  nevertheless  it  is  true.  And  I 
realize  that  it  is  impossible  for  us — all 
things  are  possible,  of  course,  to  the 
Lord — but  it  is  impossible  for  us  with 
all  the  means  that  we  have  at  our  com- 
mand and  the  means  at  our  command 
have  increased  wonderfully  in  the  last 
few  years — but  we  cannot  reach  every 
soul  living  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 
They  are  dying  off  every  day.  They 
are  being  born  every  day  into  the  world. 

However,  the  Word  of  the  Lord  being 
true,  the  time  must  come  when  the  mes- 
sage of  salvation  will  reach  every  soul. 
How  is  that  to  be  done?  We  do  the 
best  we  can  with  all  the  facilities  at 
our  command,  through  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel,  disseminating  the  truth 
by  word  of  mouth,  by  the  many  facili- 
ties that  are  at  our  command,  through 
the  magazines  that  are  published, 
through  the  press  and  every  other 
means.  But  it  is  impossible  for  us  with 
the  facilities  such  as  they  are,  to  reach 
every  soul. 


First  Day 

Furthermore,  there  have  been  millions 
upon  millions  of  people  who  have  lived 
in  this  world  who  never  had  the  oppor- 
tunity to  hear  of  Christ,  never  heard 
his  name;  they  lived  at  a  time  and  in 
a  place  where  his  name  was  not  known, 
where  the  gospel  did  not  reach  them, 
not  because  of  any  fault  on  the  part 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  nor  of  his  serv- 
ants to  reach  the  peoples  of  the  earth, 
but  because  from  the  beginning  of  time 
men  have  loved  Satan  more  than  they 
loved  God,  and  they  have  turned  away 
and  refused  to  receive  the  truth,  have 
raised  their  children  in  darkness,  and 
they  have  died  in  darkness,  so  far  as  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  concerned. 

Nevertheless,  the  promises  of  the  Lord 
must  and  will  be  fulfilled.  From  the 
very  beginning  of  this  dispensation,  just 
a  few  months  after  the  organization  of 
the  Church,  the  Lord  gave  a  revelation 
in  which  he  foreshadowed  the  salvation 
of  the  human  family,  all  of  those  who 
would  repent  and  believe.  I  shall  read  to 
you  this  part  of  the  Lord's  Preface  to  the 
book  of  his  commandments;  the  words 
of  Jesus  Christ,  himself. 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church, 
saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all 
men;  yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  peo- 
ple from  afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the 
islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together." 
(D&C  1:1.) 

Now,  that  is  to  all  those  who  are  liv- 
ing. But  the  Lord  goes  on  to  enlarge 
this  thought.    And  he  says: 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is 
unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall 
not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not 
hear,  neither  heart  that  shall  not  be 
penetrated."  (Idem  2.) 

The  Lord  has  not  limited  that  to  any 
dispensation  or  any  age  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth.  He  has  made  that  just 
as  broad  as  the  history  of  mankind, 
and  he  adds: 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced 
with  much  sorrow;  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops, 
and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed." 
(Idem  3.) 

It  seems  so  strange  to  me  that  the 
peoples  of  this  world  since  the  days  of 
the  great  apostasy,  when  the  apostles 
of  old  were  removed  and  those  who 
held  the  priesthood  were  destroyed,  that 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


23 


the  world  could  fall  into  the  awful 
condition  which  today  prevails,  which 
denies  salvation  to  every  soul  born  into 
this  world  who  never  heard  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ  or  never  had  an  oppor- 
tunity to  repent  and  be  baptized  or 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
They  have  held  out  no  hope  for  all  of 
these  people  of  the  nations,  pagan  or 
otherwise,  who  have  dwelt  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  without  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Lord  is  just,  and  he  has  made  it 
clear  that  the  time  will  come  when 
every  soul  shall  have  an  opportunity 
to  hear  the  truth.  That  does  not  mean 
that  every  soul  has  the  opportunity  or 
will  have  that  opportunity  in  this 
mortal  world.  Millions  have  died  with- 
out that  opportunity.  It  has  been  no 
fault  of  theirs,  but  the  fault  lies  with 
their  fathers  before  them,  who  turned 
away  from  the  truth  which  truth  was 
given  in  the  beginning  to  Adam  who  was 
commanded  to  teach  these  things  to  his 
children.  The  scriptures  say  that  Adam 
did  teach  these  things  to  his  children, 
but  that  they  loved  Satan  more  than 
they  loved  God,  and  Satan  came  among 
them  and  said,  "I,  too,  am  a  son  of  God, 
believe  it  not,  and  they  believed  it 
not  and  from  that  time  forth  men  be- 
came carnal,  sensual  and  devilish," 
(see  Moses  5:13)  and  so  darkness 
spread  over  the  face  of  the  earth. 

In  his  justice,  the  Lord  has  revealed 
to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  just  as  he  revealed  it  in  the 
days  of  the  apostles,  that  there  is  a 
salvation  even  for  the  dead  and  the 
time  must  come  when  every  soul  must 
have  an  opportunity  to  hear  it.  Those 
who  did  not  get  the  opportunity  to  hear 
it  in  this  world  will  have  that  oppor- 
tunity in  the  world  of  spirits,  and  Peter 
made  that  very  clear  in  his  Epistles, 
and  it  is  only  fair  that  those  who  died 
without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel 
should  have  the  opportunity  to  hear  it, 
and  the  Lord  revealed  that  great  truth 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the 
time  would  come  when  the  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  would  be  declared  to  the 
dead  and  they  who  never  had  the  op- 
portunity of  hearing  it  should  have  that 
opportunity  given  to  them,  and  if  they 
would  repent  in  that  spirit  world  then 
we  could  go  into  the  temples  of  the 
Lord  and  perform  the  ordinances  for 


them  vicariously,  being  saviors  upon 
Mount  Zion,  and  thus  give  unto  the 
dead  the  opportunity  to  hear  the  truth, 
to  repent  of  their  sins,  and  if  they  will 
repent  and  turn  away  from  evil  and 
accept  the  truth,  we  can  go  into  the 
temples  of  the  Lord  and  perform  the 
ordinances  for  them  which  will  be  valid 
unto  them  just  the  same  as  if  they 
were  living  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  vicari- 
ous work.  Christ  came  into  this  world 
and  died  for  mankind.  He  did  not 
die  just  for  those  who  repented  of  their 
sins  and  received  his  gospel.  His  death 
upon  the  cross  brought  salvation  to 
every  living  soul,  so  far  as  the  resurrec- 
tion from  the  dead  is  concerned,  and 
every  soul  born  into  this  world  shall 
receive  the  resurrection  from  the  dead 
because  he  was  not  guilty  of  bringing 
death  into  the  world,  and  man  is  not 
penalized  because  death  came  into  the 
world,  but  naturally  he  has  to  die — ■ 
that  is  part  of  the  mortal  life — but 
he  will  be  raised  again  in  the  resurrec- 
tion no  matter  who  he  is,  no  matter 
when  he  lived,  no  matter  what  he  be- 
lieved or  what  he  failed  to  believe. 
That  is  a  universal  gift  from  Jesus  Christ 
to  every  soul. 

It  is  a  different  matter,  however,  so 
far  as  the  kingdom  of  God  is  concerned, 
and  no  soul  is  going  to  enter  into  that 
kingdom  until  he  has  received  either 
in  this  life  in  person  or  by  proxy  be- 
cause he  was  not  here  to  do  it  for  him- 
self, baptism  for  the  remission  of  his 
sins  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  What  a  won- 
derful gift  it  is  the  Lord  has  placed 
into  our  hands,  to  bring  salvation  to 
the  dead,  to  those  who  are  willing  to 
repent  and  receive  the  truth. 

I  have  no  idea  in  my  mind  that  every 
soul  that  has  lived  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth,  who  has  died  and  gone  to 
the  spirit  world,  is  going  to  repent  and 
receive  the  gospel.  There  will  be  many 
that  will  not  do  that.  Our  scriptures 
point  to  that  fact.  They  are  not  going 
to  receive  the  gospel  in  the  spirit  world, 
when  their  souls  are  full  of  bitterness 
and  hate  towards  the  truth,  but  they 
have  a  right  to  have  it  taught  to  them. 

The  Lord  went  into  the  spirit  world, 
himself,  turned  the  key  for  the  salvation 
of  the  dead  and  our  elders  when  they 
pass  to  the  next  world,  go  into  that 


24 

Saturday,  April  4 

world  to  continue  their  labors  of  preach- 
ing the  gospel,  bringing  to  repentance 
all  who  are  willing  to  repent  and  receive 
the  truth,  that  they  might  come  into 
the  kingdom  of  God,  or  as  Paul  calls  it, 
"the  family  of  God  in  heaven  and  on 
earth."  For  it  is  the  family  of  God. 
The  kingdom  of  God  will  be  one  great 
family.  We  call  ourselves  brothers  and 
sisters.  In  very  deed  we  become  joint 
heirs  with  Jesus  Christ  through  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God,  and  entitled  to  the  ful- 
ness of  the  blessings  of  his  kingdom  if 
we  will  repent  and  keep  these  com- 
mandments. 

In  conclusion  I  want  to  read  to  you 
one  or  two  statements  dealing  with  our 
responsibilities  towards  the  dead.  First 
from  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"The  greatest  responsibility  in  this 
world  that  God  has  laid  upon  us,  is 
to  seek  after  our  dead."  (Teachings  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  356.) 

"This  doctrine  was  the  burden  of 
the  scriptures.  Those  Saints  who  neglect 
it,  in  behalf  of  their  deceased  relatives, 
do  it  at  the  peril  of  their  own  salvation." 
(Ibid.,  p.  193.) 

"It  is  one  of  the  greatest  and  most 
important  subjects  that  God  has  re- 
vealed. He  should  send  Elijah  to  seal 
the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  the 
fathers  to  the  children  .  .  .  without  us, 
they  could  not  be  made  perfect,  nor  we 
without  them;  the  fathers  without  the 
children,  nor  the  children  without  the 
fathers  ...  I  wish  you  to  understand 
this  subject,  for  it  is  important."  (Ibid., 
p.  337.) 

"We  have  a  work  to  do  just  as  im- 
portant in  its  sphere  as  the  Savior's 
work  was  in  its  sphere.  Our  fathers 
cannot  be  made  perfect  without  us;  we 
cannot  be  made  perfect  without  them. 
They  have  done  their  work  and  now 
sleep.  We  are  now  called  upon  to  do 
ours;  which  is  to  be  the  greatest  work 
man  ever  performed  on  the  earth." 
Brigham  Young.  (Discourses,  p.  406.) 

"The  ordinance  of  sealing  must  be 
performed  here  man  to  man,  and  woman 
to  man,  and  children  to  parents,  etc., 
until  the  chain  of  generation  is  made 
perfect  in  the  sealing  ordinances  back 
to  Father  Adam  "  (Ibid.,  p.  407.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

"Brethren  and  sisters,  lay  these  things 
to  heart.  Let  us  go  on  with  our  records 
...  I  pray  God  that  as  a  people  our 
eyes  may  be  opened  to  see,  our  ears  to 
hear,  and  our  hearts  to  understand  the 
great  and  mighty  work  that  rests  upon 
our  shoulders,  and  that  the  God  of 
heaven  requires  at  our  hand.  .  .  ."  Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff.  (The  Utah 
Genealogical  and  Historical  Magazine, 
Vol.  13,  p.  152.) 

"This  is  the  day  in  which  the  Lord 
expects  his  Church  at  least  to  inaugurate 
the  great  work  of  turning  'the  heart  of 
the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers.' "  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay  (The  Utah  Gene- 
alogical and  Historical  Magazine,  Vol. 
25,  p.  59  or  Gospel  Ideals,  p.  19.) 

"What  about  your  great  great  an- 
cestors who  never  heard  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ?  .  .  .  You  may  have  the  op- 
portunity of  gathering  the  names  of  your 
ancestors  and,  by  being  baptized  for  by 
proxy,  they  may  become  members  of 
the  kingdom  of  God  in  the  other  world 
as  we  are  members  here." — President 
David  O.  McKay.  (See  Instructor,  No- 
vember 1958,  p.  322.) 

Now,  brethren,  these  are  our  respon- 
sibilities, and  the  Lord  requires  this 
work  at  our  hands.  The  Church  has 
gone  to  great  expense  endeavoring  to 
gather  the  records  of  the  dead,  and  I 
want  to  say  to  you,  has  been  very,  very 
successful  in  that  labor  to  gather  in  the 
records  of  your  ancestors  so  that  we 
could  go  into  the  temples  of  the  Lord 
and  perform  these  labors  for  them  so 
that  all  who  are  willing  to  repent  and 
receive  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  may 
be  brought  into  his  kingdom  and  into 
that  great  family  of  God,  which  is  both 
in  heaven  and  on  earth. 

And  I  humbly  pray  that  this  spirit 
will  take  hold  of  the  members  of  the 
Church,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has 
just  spoken  to  us.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  who  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball. 


25 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  just  as  I 
arose  to  step  up  here  to  the  rostrum, 
my  good  friend  and  associate,  Elder 
Christiansen  said,  "The  Lord  bless  you." 
I  think  I  have  never  needed  his  blessing 
more  than  I  do  at  this  moment,  and  I 
pray  for  the  good  Spirit,  and  pray  also 
for  your  support  and  your  sympathy. 

I  was  impressed  very  much  with  the 
remarks  of  President  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith.  He  referred  to  the  comprehen- 
siveness of  Mormonism,  how  this  gos- 
pel of  the  kingdom  must  be  preached 
to  every  creature — all  of  God's  children 
— whether  they  be  living  or  whether 
they  be  dead.  A  few  years  go  I  was 
over  in  Norway  and  visited  the  little 
town  of  Trondheim  where  a  car  took 
us  up  to  an  elevated  place  just  back  of 
the  Viking  Monument  in  that  city.  As 
the  car  stopped  I  said  to  the  driver, 
"Do  you  know  where  Brother  John  A. 
Widtsoe  and  his  mother  lived  when 
their  home  was  in  this  city?"  He  said, 
"Of  course.  Everyone  knows  that. 
Would  you  like  to  see  it?"  Of  course, 
I  would. 

He  drove  us  down  through  the  city, 
and  we  finally  stopped  in  front  of  a 
little  white  dwelling.  Everything  about 
that  place  was  immaculate.  Even  the 
stones  around  the  walks  were  painted 
white.  I  knocked  at  the  door,  and  I 
said  to  the  woman  who  opened  it, 
"May  I  go  around  to  the  back  and  see 
the  premises  in  the  rear?"  She  said, 
"Of  course!"  I  walked  around  to  the 
back  and  as  I  stood  there  I  saw  some 
lettering  on  the  fence.  I  walked  nearer 
so  I  could  better  see  the  lettering,  and 
I  deciphered  the  name,  Karl  Vidtsoe. 
I  wrote  the  name  in  my  book,  and 
when  I  came  back  to  Salt  Lake  City  I 
immediately  went  up  to  see  Brother 
Widtsoe.  I  said  to  him,  "Brother  Widt- 
soe, who  is  Karl  Vidtsoe?"  He  said, 
"Oh,  that  is  Uncle  Karl.  Uncle  Karl 
was  a  good  man,  but  he  never  could  see 
the  beauty  and  the  strength  of  the  re- 
stored gospel.  But  Sister  Widtsoe  and 
I  have  been  over  there,"  he  pointed  to 
the  temple,  "and  we  have  done  the 
work  for  Karl, — all  we  can  do  for  him 
in  this  life,  but  when  we  get  over  on 
the  other  side  I  will  surely  find  Karl, 


and  I  will  preach  the  gospel  to  him 
until  he  is  ready  to  receive  it." 

Do  you  see  the  beauty  of  the  restored 
gospel?  Do  you  see  the  anxiety  of 
Brother  Widtsoe  to  proclaim  the  gospel 
truths  to  his  relative?  It  occurs  to  me 
as  I  stand  here  that  our  work  is  probably 
never  done.  We  will  commence  on  the 
morrow,  or  whenever  we  pass  on,  just 
where  we  left  off  today.  We  will  search 
for  our  relatives  and  our  friends  until 
we  will  find  them,  and  we  will  preach 
to  them  the  self-same  gospel  which  we 
are  teaching  the  world  today,  both  at 
home  and  abroad.  It  is  glorious,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  to  contemplate  this 
phase  of  the  restored  gospel. 

I  jotted  down  here  in  just  a  moment, 
two  or  three  passages  of  scripture.  One 
reads  like  this:  "But  seek  ye  first  the 
kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness; 
and  all  [else]  shall  be  added  unto  you." 
(See  Matt.  6:33.)  Here  is  another  one 
which  has  come  to  us  through  modern 
revelation.  ".  .  .  Many  are  called,  but 
few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they  not 
chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much 
upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and  aspire 
to  the  honors  of  men, . . ."  (D&C  121:34- 
35.)  Have  you  seen  men  depart  from 
the  faith  because  their  hearts  are  cen- 
tered in  the  things  of  this  world?  And 
because  they  aspire  to  the  honors  of 
men? 

Another  statement  made  by  the 
Savior:  "How  hardly  shall  they  that 
have  riches  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God?"  (Mark  10:23.)  I  do  not  know 
exactly  what  the  Lord  meant  when  he 
said  that,  but  I  do  believe  that  we  have 
no  right  as  members  of  the  Church  to 
put  our  first  thoughts  to  the  accumula- 
tion of  worldly  things,  and  I  believe  he 
expects  us,  as  stated  in  that  verse  I  first 
read,  to  seek  first  his  kingdom. 

He  said  to  the  rich  young  ruler:  "If 
thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go  sell  all  thou 
hast,  and  give  to  the  poor,  and  take  up 
thy  cross  and  follow  me."  (See  Matt. 
19:21.)  The  rich  young  ruler  could 
not  comply  because  he  had  many  pos- 
sessions, and  as  a  result  he  went  away 
sorrowing. 

Judas  Iscariot  thought  he  could  get 


26 

Saturday,  April  4 

nowhere  without  money,  so  he  betrayed 
his  Lord  for  thirty  pieces  of  silver.  The 
sequence  to  that  is  that  Judas  hanged 
himself.  I  know  a  man  who  gave  up  his 
responsibilities  in  the  Church  in  order 
to  make  money.  As  a  result  he  is 
wealthy,  and  has  become  a  power  in 
the  business  world,  but  I  now  observe 
that  he  has  lost  his  family  and  destroyed 
his  chances  and  his  opportunities  for 
a  place  in  God's  kingdom.  That  is 
tragic,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

I  know  another  man  who  gave  up  his 
position  in  a  large  business  concern 
rather  than  give  up  his  calling  as  a 
bishop.  I  loved  that  man.  He  died  a 
year  ago,  but  he  left  his  widow  enough 
for  her  care  while  she  lives,  and  I  have 
observed  that  his  sons  are  recognized 
leaders  in  the  business  world.  The 
Lord  blesses  devotion  and  faithful  per- 
formance. 

I  have  been  reading  just  recently  the 
life  of  Dr.  Karl  G.  Maeser.  Brother 
Maeser  was  a  remarkable  man.  Some- 
where in  the  book  it  tells  about  a  group 
of  missionaries  who  had  met  together 
in  Meissen,  Germany,  the  birthplace  of 
Dr.  Maeser.  One  of  the  missionaries 
made  this  remark:  "Think  what  Dr. 
Maeser  has  done  for  the  Church."  An- 
other responded  promptly:  "Think  what 
the  Church  has  done  for  Dr.  Maeser." 
That  remark  offers  a  real  suggestion. 
Have  you  ever  stopped  to  think  what 
the  Church  has  done  for  you  individual- 
ly? How  it  has  enriched  your  life? 
How  it  has  given  you  courage  and 
strength  to  go  forward  in  your  daily 
pursuits,  and  how  it  has  brought  you 
comfort  in  times  of  sorrow  and  dis- 
tress? It  is  wonderful  to  belong  to  the 
Church. 

Many  of  our  leaders,  past  and  pres- 
ent have  made  great  contributions  to 
the  Church.  I  know  men  who  have 
laid  upon  the  altar  every  worldly  pos- 
session they  had  for  the  gospel's  sake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

They  have  gone  into  strange  lands, 
sometimes  far  away  from  home  and 
friends,  to  teach  the  gospel  of  the  king- 
dom, and  to  explain  God's  revealed 
plan  of  salvation  to  others.  Dr.  Maeser, 
as  I  have  read,  was  reared  in  an  en- 
vironment of  culture  and  refinement. 
He  associated  with  the  elite  in  Germany. 
He  had  access  to  libraries.  He  was 
familiar  with  the  best  books  of  his  day. 
His  education  was  broad  and  varied, 
and  included  the  study  of  music  and 
art  and  several  languages.  God  in  his 
own  way  had  prepared  Dr.  Maeser  for 
his  mission  in  the  Church  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

I  can  well  imagine  that  it  was  diffi- 
cult for  Dr.  Maeser  to  make  the  ad- 
justment, yet  I  am  sure  that  this  good 
and  great  man  did  not  complain  nor 
compromise.  He  did  not  permit  diffi- 
culties to  obscure  his  vision  of  the 
truth.  Brother  Maeser  had  heard  the 
voice  of  the  Shepherd.  That  voice 
brought  conviction  to  his  soul.  That 
conviction  transformed  his  entire  life, 
but  whatever  happened,  confusion  and 
uncertainty  disappeared,  and  he  stood 
for  the  first  time  on  the  solid  founda- 
tion of  faith  in  the  True  and  Living 
God. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  may  we  appre- 
ciate our  membership  in  this  great 
Church.  May  we  have  the  courage  and 
the  strength  to  devote  ourselves  un- 
selfishly for  the  promotion  of  God's 
work  among  his  children.  That  is  our 
responsibility.  It  is  our  obligation,  and 
may  we  not  fail  therein,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a 
joy  to  be  back  in  this  part  of  Zion.  As 
the  other  brethren  have  mentioned  their 
tours  in  foreign  lands,  my  very  recent 
memories  were  stirred.    I  bring  to  you 


also  the  greetings  of  the  thousands  of 
members  of  the  Church  of  all  nation- 
alities in  South  America. 

Last  Saturday  and  Sunday  I  was  in 
Peru  with  various  gatherings  of  Saints. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


27 


I  have  enjoyed  greatly  the  touring  of 
the  missions  in  those  countries.  They 
are  like  giants  just  yawning  and  stretch- 
ing and  ready  to  go  to  work.  There 
are  great  agricultural  empires,  mines, 
cattle  and  industries,  and  a  great  people 
made  up  of  immigrants  from  all  over 
the  world,  particularly  Europe,  and 
much  influenced  by  European  immigra- 
tion and  culture.  They  are  a  great 
people. 

It  was  inspiring  to  me  to  note  the 
thousands  of  Italians  in  the  Church  and 
the  thousands  of  members  with  Span- 
ish and  Portuguese  backgrounds  and 
from  these  places  where  we  have  not 
yet  established  regular  missions.  But 
our  work  is  telling  and  the  leaven  is 
leavening  the  lump.  There  are  four 
hundred  missionaries  in  those  six 
countries  in  which  we  are  proselyting 
in  South  America,  your  sons  and 
daughters  of  whom  you  can  well  be 
proud. 

The  work  is  progressing  and  acceler- 
ating in  speed.  It  took  twenty-four 
years  to  get  the  first  thousand  converts 
in  Argentina.  It  took  only  eight  years 
for  the  second  thousand,  a  year  and 
seven  months  for  the  third  thousand, 
and  they  expect  from  now  on  to  get  a 
thousand  plus  each  year.  The  other 
countries,  likewise,  are  inspiring,  and 
it  was  a  joyous  experience.  In  most  of 
the  many  branch  chapels  there  hangs 
the  picture  of  the  prophet  of  the  Lord 
with  his  counselors,  and  the  prayers  of 
the  Saints  are  constantly  for  them. 

We  were  received  well  by  the  coun- 
tries, by  their  officials,  and  by  the 
press.  I  was  interested  in  a  comment 
made  by  a  representative  of  one  of  the 
largest  papers  in  Brazil.  She  had  heard 
my  sermon  the  day  before,  on  Sunday, 
in  which  I  had  spoken  rather  strongly 
about  the  restoration  of  the  gospel. 
She  said  to  me,  "Why  was  Joseph 
Smith  persecuted  and  martyred?"  I 
replied,  "Well,  very  much  for  the  same 
reason  that  the  Christ  was  crucified." 
And  she  asked,  "Why  was  that?"  I  an- 
swered: "Because  he  said,  'I  am  the 
Son  of  God.' "  And  her  next  remark 
shocked  me:  "He  should  not  have  said 
it,  should  he?  He  really  was  not,  was 
he?" 

I  thought  she  was  joking.  I  looked 
into  her  eyes  for  a  moment  and  thought 


she  was  going  to  smile.  But  she  did 
not.  And  I  said  firmly:  "He  said  he 
was  the  Son  of  God  because  he  was  the 
Son  of  God." 

Last  Sunday  I  read  the  Easter  paper 
of  one  of  the  largest  cities  in  South 
America.  The  author  was  a  minister 
with  letters  after  his  name.  I  read  the 
entire  article  and  in  the  half  a  page 
given  front  page  notice,  he  never  men- 
tioned the  Lord  of  heaven  and  earth, 
the  Redeemer,  the  Savior.  He  always 
spoke  of  "Jesus."  He  quoted  two  or 
three  scriptures  which  mentioned  Jesus 
of  Nazareth  as  being  more  than  the 
carpenter's  son,  but  never  in  his  writing 
did  he  ever  give  any  other  title  to  the 
Christ  who  shed  his  precious  blood 
for  him. 

I  asked  four  hundred  missionaries, 
"What  think  ye  of  Christ  and  the  claims 
that  are  made?"  And  I  heard  four 
hundred  inspiring  testimonies  from 
youth — sure  testimonies,  ringing  with 
conviction. 

I  am  reminded  of  what  Paul  said: 
"And  I,  brethren,  when  I  came  to  you, 
came  not  with  excellency  of  speech  or 
of  wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the  testi- 
mony of  God. 

"For  I  determined  not  to  know  any- 
thing among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ, 
and  him  crucified."  (I  Cor.  2:1-2.) 

I  could  not  see  how  we  could  really 
celebrate  an  Easter  without  discussing 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Why  even  the 
devils  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  On 
one  occasion  the  devils  came  crying  out 
and  saying,  ".  .  .  Thou  art  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God.  And  he  rebuking  them 
suffered  them  not  to  speak:  for  they 
knew  that  he  was  the  Christ."  (Luke 
4:41.)  On  another  occasion  ".  .  .  the 
evil  spirit  answered  and  said,  Jesus  I 
know,  and  Paul  I  know;  but  who  are 
ye?"  (Acts  19:15.)  And  another  time, 
".  .  .  they  cried  out  saying,  What  have 
we  to  do  with  thee,  Jesus,  thou  Son  of 
God,  art  thou  come  hither  to  torment 
us  before  the  time?"  (Matt.  8:29.) 

As  was  suggested  this  morning,  I 
believe  that  there  was  a  considerable 
conviction  in  the  heart  of  Pilate,  who 
was  constrained  by  his  conscience  to  let 
the  Savior  go  free,  but  because  of 
political  ambitions  and  other  reasons, 
in  spite  of  his  wife's  importuning,  he 
delivered  him  to  be  crucified.   But  even 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


28 

Saturday,  April  4 

after  that,  he  wrote  on  the  cross  in 
three  languages,  Hebrew,  Greek,  and 
Latin,  this  famous  statement:  ".  .  .  Jesus 
of  Nazareth  the  King  of  the  Jews."  The 
Jews  offended  came  and  said, 

".  .  .  Write  not,  The  King  of  the  Jews 
but  that  he  said  I  am  King  of  the  Jews. 

"Pilate  answered,  What  I  have  writ- 
ten, I  have  written."  (See  John  19:19- 
22.) 

I  think  there  was  more  than  casual- 
ness  in  Herod's  taking  the  lives  of 
numerous  little  boys.  I  think  he  really 
believed  that  this  could  be  and  might 
be  the  promised  and  prophesied  Re- 
deemer who  might  take  his  kingdom 
from  him. 

You  have  read  of  Nathanael,  the  man 
without  guile,  who  said,  as  he  saw  the 
the  Christ:  ".  .  .  Rabbi,  thou  art  the 
Son  of  God;  thou  art  the  King  of 
Israel."  (Ibid.,  1:49.) 

Paul  had  hardly  made  his  transforma- 
tion, he  had  just  barely  received  back 
his  sight  from  his  unusual  experience 
and  he  went  straightway  into  the  syna- 
gogues and  preached  Christ,  "that  he 
is  the  Son  of  God." 

Why  will  the  divines  of  the  day  pur- 
posely avoid  the  names  of  the  Deity 
whom  they  would  choose  to  call  only 
Jesus.  There  are  tens  of  thousands  of 
Jesuses  in  the  world.  In  all  the  Span- 
ish-speaking countries  you  find  them  on 
every  hand.  They  call  it  Jesus  (Ha-siis), 
but  it  is  Jesus.  But  there  was  only  one 
Jesus  who  became  the  Prince  of  light, 
the  Author  of  our  salvation. 

Joseph  Smith  said:  "...  I  had  actually 
seen  a  light,  and  in  the  midst  of  that 
light  I  saw  two  Personages,  and  they 
did  in  reality  speak  to  me;  and  though 
I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying 
that  I  had  seen  a  vision,  yet  it  was  true; 
and  while  they  were  persecuting  me. 
reviling  me,  and  speaking  all  manner  of 
evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying,  I 
was  led  to  say  in  my  heart:  Why  perse- 
cute me  for  telling  the  truth?  I  have 
actually  seen  a  vision;  and  who  am  I 
that  I  can  withstand  God,  or  why  does 
the  world  think  to  make  me  deny 
what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I  had 
seen  a  vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew  that 
God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it, 
neither  dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I  knew 
that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend 
God,  and  come  under  condemnation." 
(Joseph  Smith  2:25.) 


Firs!  Day 

Almost  every  time  a  man  of  the  press 
approached  me  in  South  America,  his 
first  question  was:  "What  are  you  doing 
and  what  is  your  objective  in  South 
America?"  And  I  said  to  him:  "Do 
you  remember  in  the  Acts  of  the  Apos- 
tles, of  the  travels  of  Paul,  where  he 
went  into  Asia  Minor,  to  Greece,  and 
to  Rome,  and  possibly  even  farther 
west?  That  is  what  we  are  doing.  One 
of  my  colleagues  is  just  returning  from 
the  South  Seas;  another  has  just  re- 
turned from  South  Africa,  another  from 
Europe.  We  are  doing  what  the  Lord 
said,  '.  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world, 
and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"  'He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth  not 
shall  be  damned.'"  (Mark  16:15-16.) 

"And  you  mean  to  say  that  you  are 
doing  the  work  that  Paul  did?" 

And  then  I  said,  "No.  /  never  could 
do  the  work  of  a  Paul,  but  I  am  covering 
the  world  with  my  brethren  as  did 
Paul  and  Peter,  only  that  Paul  covered 
a  small  part  of  the  earth.  Today  we  are 
going  to  the  ends  of  the  earth  and  this 
is  one  of  the  four  corners." 

The  Lord  testified  of  himself  in  addi- 
tion to  the  numerous  testimonies  of  him. 
He  said  to  his  Father  in  that  glorious 
prayer:  "Father,  glorify  thy  name. 
Then  came  a  voice  from  heaven,  saying, 
I  have  both  glorified  it,  and  will 
glorify  it  again."  (John  12:28.) 

There  is  a  very  interesting  distinction 
between  the  introduction  of  our  Father 
in  heaven  of  his  Son  on  the  waters 
of  Jordan,  the  one  on  the  Mount  of 
Transfiguration,  and  a  little  later  in 
the  Nephite  country.  He  said  to  John 
at  Jordan,  and  those  others  who  may 
have  heard  it,  perhaps  those  who  be- 
came the  apostles  of  the  Lord,  ".  .  .  This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased."  (Matt.  3:17.)  He  said  on  the 
Mount  of  Transfiguration,  as  reported 
by  Peter,  ".  .  .  This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased;  hear  ye 
him."  (Ibid.,  17:5.)  To  the  Nephites, 
after  some  transcendently  glorious 
things  had  happened,  he  said  a  little 
more.  Introducing  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
his  words  were:  "Behold  my  Beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,  in 
whom  I  have  glorified  my  name — hear 
ye  him."  (3  Nephi  11:7.) 

There  had  been  a  glorification  pro- 
gram since,  there  had  been  a  death,  a 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


29 


resurrection,  an  ascension,  and  now  he 
had  returned  to  the  earth  again. 

As  he  went  into  the  clouds  and  was 
received  and  absorbed  by  them  after 
his  forty  days  upon  the  earth,  there 
were  many  standing  looking  up  into 
heaven,  and  the  angels  stood  by  and 
said,  ".  .  .  Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand 
ye  gazing  up  into  heaven?  this  same 
Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from  you  into 
heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as 
ye  have  seen  him  go  into  heaven." 
(Acts  1:11.) 

After  his  appearance  to  the  Nephites, 
it  was  a  long  time  before  he  returned. 
He  could  not  well  return  to  a  people 
who  did  not  believe  in  him.  He  needed 
somebody  who  had  a  great,  consuming 
faith,  who  would  receive  him  as  Jesus 
Christ,  Redeemer,  Savior,  Son  of  God. 
That  happened  in  a  grove  in  New  York 
State  in  the  early  part  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  and  the  same  words  were  said 
again  by  a  Loving  Father,  who  had 
already  delegated  this  particular  work 
to  a  Glorified  Son,  and  he  said  again  to 
a  young  boy,  ".  .  .  This  is  my  Beloved 
Son.   Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

You  remember  what  Peter  said  when 
the  disciples  were  asked,  ".  .  .  Whom  do 
men  say  that  I,  the  Son  of  man,  am?" 
They  spoke  up  and  said  men  thought 
him  to  be  Elias  or  one  of  the  other 
prophets,  and  then  the  Lord  said  again, 
and  I  can  imagine  his  piercing  eyes, 
wondering  and  expectant  eyes,  ".  .  .  But 
whom  say  ye  that  I  am?"  And  the 
answer  was  one  of  the  most  stirring  and 
glorious  of  all  statements  made,  ".  .  . 
Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God."  And  the  next  statement 
followed  which  must  never  be  over- 


looked: ".  .  .  flesh  and  blood  hath  not 
revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  (See  Matt.  16:13- 
17.)  In  other  words,  man  has  not  told 
you  this,  but  my  Father  has  revealed 
it  unto  thee,  a  great  revelation  has 
come  unto  thee,  and  ye  know  it. 

I  asked  four  hundred  missionaries 
the  Lord's  question  which  faces  every 
man,  woman,  and  child  on  this  earth: 
"Whom  do  ye  say  that  I  the  Son  of 
man  am?"  And  I  was  gratified  at  the 
hundreds  of  replies  from  your  sons  and 
daughters,  saying  "Thou  art  the  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  living  God." 

And  that  is  my  testimony  to  you,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  The  Congregation  will  now  join 
in  singing,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  con- 
ducted by  Brother  Ralph  Woodward. 
After  the  singing,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 
Young  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy  will  speak  to  us. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer 
of  Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Carl  W.  Buehner. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  am  happy  to  say  something  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters  on  this  occasion 
and  I  sincerely  pray  for  their  faith  and 
prayers.  We  are  all  interested  in  the 
Christian  world  today.  I  have  the  honor 
of  being  a  member  of  the  American 
Christian  Palestine  Committee  with  the 
Reverend  Bishop  Moulton  of  the  Epis- 
copal Church  to  work  for  the  redemption 
of  Palestine,  and  its  restoration.  A  few 
weeks  ago  we  were  asked  to  write  about 


the  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
and  what  it  means  as  a  civic  document. 
To  us  all,  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  is  a  very  sacred  document,  and 
it  has  never  been  equaled  in  the  history 
of  the  world. 

I  wish  to  read  a  paragraph  written 
ages  ago  by  a  famous  Greek  orator 
whose  name  was  Isocrates. 

"The  age  in  which  we  live  should  be 
distinguished  by  some  glorious  enter- 


30 

Saturday,  April  4 

prise.  .  .  .  Let  world  leaders  contrive 
to  put  to  an  end  our  present  troubles. 
The  treaties  of  peace  are  insufficient 
for  their  purpose;  they  may  retard,  but 
cannot  prevent  our  misfortunes.  We 
stand  in  need  of  some  more  durable 
plan,  which  will  forever  put  to  an  end 
our  hostilities  and  unite  us  by  the  last- 
ing ties  of  mutual  affection  and  fidelity." 

Quoting  the  words  of  Herbert  L. 
Willett, 

"The  divisions  of  Christendom  today 
are  its  most  conspicuous  reproach,  and 
its  chief  cause  of  inefficiency.  They 
present  a  moral  affront  to  the  enterprise 
inaugurated  by  Jesus  Christ,  and  consti- 
tute the  outstanding  limitation  of  its 
progress.  The  divided  state  of  the 
Church  is  an  affront  to  Christianity. 
We  wonder  if  Christianity  can  survive; 
we  wonder  if  the  Christian  groups  can 
fight  the  evils  of  the  social  order  of  our 
times." 

Only  the  true  Church  can  furnish  the 
program  and  power  to  meet  the  emer- 
gencies that  confront  the  world  today. 

The  Holy  Bible  is  not  only  the  mas- 
terpiece of  the  world's  literature,  but 
it  is  also  the  most  majestic  exposition 
of  religion  ever  given  to  man.  It  con- 
tains the  writings  of  the  inspired  proph- 
ets of  God,  and  embodies  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 
It  enlightens  us  on  the  great  themes  of 
revealed  religion:  man,  scripture,  salva- 
tion, faith,  prayer,  and  immortality. 
God  reigns  in  heaven  and  in  earth; 
he  is  the  rightful  King  of  nations,  and 
the  Source  of  supreme  good  to  men.  In 
his  image  was  man  created.  Great 
prophets  like  Moses,  Isaiah,  Hosea, 
Jeremiah,  Daniel,  Ezekiel,  and  Micah 
were  divinely  appointed  servants,  and 
they  wrote  the  holy  scriptures  and  in- 
spired the  peoples  of  the  ancient  world 
to  believe  in  God  and  to  hope  for  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  They  had  the 
highest  possible  knowledge  of  moral 
and  religious  laws. 

How  one  loves  to  read  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, one  of  the  greatest  lessons 
of  the  Bible.  They  were  given  to  Moses, 
the  prophet,  hundreds  of  years  before 
the  birth  of  the  Savior. 

Then  we  have  such  words  from  the 
Jewish  Talmud  which  were  written  soon 
after  the  Ten  Commandments.  Let 
me  quote  to  you  a  few  sentences  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

show  the  dignity  of  the  teachings  of 
ancient  Jewish  writings. 

"The  name  of  the  Lord  shall  be 
loved  through  thy  treatment  of  thy 
fellow  man. 

"Do  God's  will  as  thy  own  will,  sub- 
mit thy  will  to  his  will. 

"Be  not  like  servants  who  serve  their 
master  for  the  sake  of  reward. 

"Thy  neighbor's  honor  must  be  as 
dear  to  thee  as  thy  own. 

"Keep  aloof  from  grumbling. 

"Do  not  hate  the  one  who  reproves 
thee. 

"If  you  humble  yourself,  the  Lord 
will  lift  you  up. 

"Pass  not  judgment  upon  thy  neigh- 
bor, until  thou  has  put  thyself  in  his 
place." 

However  highly  we  may  estimate  the 
truths  we  have  today,  it  is  for  us  to 
understand  the  gospel.  Rudolph  Kittel 
of  Leipzig  University  wrote  some  years 
ago:  "Some  one  has  got  to  rise  to  give 
to  the  world  the  doctrines  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior,  for  the  world  is  in 
need  of  them."  This  calls  to  my  mind 
an  experience  that  some  of  the  actors 
of  the  old  Salt  Lake  Theatre  had  one 
evening.  A  noted  American  actor  had 
just  closed  the  play  of  Hamlet,  and  was 
about  to  leave  to  take  the  train  for 
San  Francisco.  Standing  in  the  door- 
way of  the  so-called  "Green  Room," 
Mr.  Clawson,  the  manager  of  the  old 
playhouse  asked  him  to  say  a  few  words. 
Mr.  Edwin  Booth  stopped  for  a  minute 
or  two,  then  said:  "It  is  seldom  I  speak 
in  public,  but  I  would  like  to  repeat 
on  this  occasion  the  most  beautiful 
words  ever  uttered.  Bowing  his  head 
he  said: 

"Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven, 
Hallowed  be  thy  name. 
Thy  kingdom  come. 
Thy  will  be  done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in 
heaven." 

(See  Matt.  6:9-10.) 

With  these  words  from  the  Lord's 
Prayer,  Booth  turned  and  said  "Good- 
bye" to  the  few  people  and  walked  from 
the  theater  to  the  sidewalk  where  he 
took  a  carriage  to  the  depot. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  done 
the  mightiest  work  of  all: 

We  first  see  Joseph  Smith  in  the 
woods  on  the  frontier  of  America  pray- 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


31 


ing  as  a  child  might  pray,  and  the  Lord 
appearing  to  him.  Using  the  words  of 
the  Psalmist,  "Grace  is  poured  into  thy 
lips,  therefore,  God  hath  blessed  thee 
forever  more."  With  the  Father  was 
Jesus  the  Savior.  Joseph  heard  the 
voice  of  God  and  the  divine  words: 
"This  is  my  Beloved  Son."  A  new  day 
was  at  hand.  From  that  moment  he 
was  heart  and  mind  for  the  word  of 
the  Lord.  What  a  message  for  our 
missionaries  of  today! 

He  learned  that  day  that  the  divi- 
sions of  Christendom  are  its  most  con- 
spicuous reproach  and  the  chief  cause 
of  its  inefficiency.  They  present  a  moral 
affront  to  the  enterprise  inaugurated 
by  Jesus  Christ,  and  constitute  the  out- 
standing limitation  of  its  progress. 
Christianity  is  weakened  by  its  divisions 
in  facing  the  problems  of  today,  among 
which  are  class  hatreds,  race  antagon- 
isms, blindness  to  social  justice,  the 
lure  of  vicious  literature,  crime-instigat- 
ing narcotics,  and  the  spread  of  military 
spirit  in  the  world. 

The  supreme  test  of  religion  is  revela- 
tion. No  religion  can  be  persuasive 
unless  it  relies  on  the  principle  of  revela- 
tion. The  living  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  must  be  revelatory.  One  readily 
sees  that  the  very  lifeblood  of  the 
Church  is  the  principle  and  potency 
of  redemption.  Christianity  in  its  pure 
sense  is  the  religion  of  redeemed  per- 
sonality. While  all  true  men  reveal 
God,  the  complete  carrier  of  revela- 
tion can  be  no  other  than  a  chosen 
personality. 

By  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
which  he  received  from  heaven,  Joseph 
Smith  established  our  true  relationship 
to  God.  Out  of  this  grows  the  salva- 
tion of  man — his  true  immortal  life. 


The  nations  all  bear  witness  to  the  need 
of  a  light  that  is  not  of  man.  We  can 
give  our  word  to  the  world  that  the 
forces  which  are  to  make  the  world  the 
world  it  ought  to  be  are  now  within  it. 

Thousands,  yea  millions  of  people 
are  waiting  to  hear  the  voice  of  our 
Father  in  heaven.  Millions  are  turning 
to  God,  and  we  are  in  these  days  of 
world  turmoil  experiencing  a  rising  tide 
of  understanding  and  goodwill  that  is 
constantly  ebbing  and  flowing  among 
us  all.  The  fact  that  the  movement 
has  been  reserved  for  our  day  fills  us 
with  the  deepening  sense  of  our  respon- 
sibility and  duty  to  make  sure  that  the 
golden  opportunities  it  offers  are  not 
lost. 

"It  changes  everything. 
I  can  see  the  end  of  war  in  this,  some 
day. 

I  can  see  the  joy  of  women  and  little 

children — some  day. 
I  can  see  the  cities  and  great  spaces  of 

land  full  of  happiness. 
I  can  see  love  shining  in  every  face. 
There  shall  be  no  more  sin,  no  pain,  no 

loss,  no  death — 
Only  life,  only  God — some  day  when 
the  world  shall  have  learned." 

— Charles  Rann  Kennedy 

I  pray  God  to  bless  us  all  this  day. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  will  now  address 
us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
John  Longden. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is 
always  an  honor  to  greet  you  at  a  gen- 
eral conference  of  the  Church  and  to 
bear  you  my  testimony  of  the  divinity 
of  this  great,  ever-growing,  latter-day 
work.  What  I  have  read,  heard,  and 
observed  concerning  serious  conditions 
confronting  this  world  in  which  we 
live  makes  me  more  appreciative  than 


ever  before  of  the  testimony  I  have  of 
things  eternal. 

I  am  sure  we  are  all  interested  in 
security,  and  would  like  to  say  to  all 
people  living  that  if  we  are  interested 
in  security,  we  should  live  close  to  the 
teachings  of  the  God  of  this  land,  who 
is  Jesus  Christ,  for  he  has  said,  ".  .  .  and 
though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away, . . ." 
(D&C  1:38.)  I  think  more  people  than 
ever  before  are  turning  their  hearts  to 
religion  for  an  answer  to  some  of  the 
perplexing  problems  we  face. 

I  find  great  joy  in  my  work  in  the 
Church,  and  I  hope  it  will  always  be  my 
desire  to  have  the  work  of  the  Church 
come  first.  I  like  people  who  put  "first 
things"  first  in  the  Church. 

It  is  very  encouraging  to  know  that 
progress  is  being  made  all  along  the 
line.  I  enjoy  my  experiences  in  the 
stakes  with  you  people. 

Recently,  a  young  man  speaking  at 
a  stake  quarterly  conference  said:  "I 
am  a  very  important  person  in  my  ward. 
I  hold  the  office  of  a  priest.  I  am  the 
only  priest  in  my  priests'  quorum.  In 
our  quorum,  it  is  either  one-hundred 
percent  or  nothing."  It  did  not  take 
long  for  this  young  man  to  prove  to 
us  that  he  was  a  hundred  percenter. 
I  admire  the  young  men  and  young 
women  who  are  achieving  to  be  hundred 
percenters  by  the  standards  with  which 
we  measure  them.  I  am  sure  we  can- 
not measure  all  of  their  activities,  but 
many  of  them  are  making  remarkable 
progress.  This  is  even  carrying  over 
to  some  of  our  bishops  and  some  of  our 
other  leaders. 

I  learned  not  long  ago  while  attend- 
ing a  Fathers'  and  Sons'  banquet  in  the 
Summit  Stake  that  one  bishop  in  a 
ward — and  I  guess  he  has  been  the 
bishop  a  long  time  or  else  it  is  the  con- 
tinuous record  of  two  bishops — said  they 
have  not  lost  a  boy  to  inactivity  in  their 
ward  for  thirteen  years. 

In  another  stake  I  attended,  I  heard 
a  bishop  make  a  similar  report,  but 
his  was  for  six  years,  and  still  a  third 
bishop  in  another  stake  said,  "We 
haven't  lost  a  boy  in  our  ward  for  five 
years."  Then  I  began  hoping  for  the 
day  when  we  could  say  to  the  whole 
Church,  "We  have  not  lost  a  boy  or  a 
girl  in  the  Church  this  year,  or  for  five 
years,  or  ten  years."  I  think  we  are 
moving  forward  and  accomplishing 
things  that  we  have  never  accomplished 
before. 

I  was  interested  in  hearing  a  young 
Latter-day  Saint  girl  speak  on  the  topic, 
"When  and  How  Does  a  Young  Woman 
Make  Preparation  for  Marriage  in  the 
Temple."  As  she  developed  her  sub- 
ject, she  said:  "I  have  come  to  one 


First  Day 

conclusion.  There  is  a  right  way  to 
get  married,  and  there  is  a  wrong  way 
to  get  married.  If  some  young  man 
does  not  propose  to  me  who  can  take 
me  to  the  temple,  I  will  convert  one 
who  can.  I  have  a  desire  to  be  married 
the  Lord's  way,  and  I  am  going  to  in- 
sist that  the  man  whom  I  marry  is  one 
who  can  take  me  to  the  House  of  the 
Lord." 

I  heard  another  little  experience  of 
a  man  who  had  recently  been  asked  to 
supervise  a  district  in  ward  teaching. 
He  said,  "Bishop,  I  will  accept  on  one 
basis,  that  we  do  one-hundred  percent 
ward  teaching,  and  when  I  am  unable 
to  maintain  one-hundred  percent,  I 
quit."  I  got  a  letter  from  his  bishop 
the  other  day,  who  said,  "For  forty 
months,  he  has  had  one-hundred  per- 
cent, and  we  see  no  reason  why  this 
will  not  continue  indefinitely." 

There  come  to  us  many  experiences 
of  devoted  and  dedicated  ward  teachers 
to  the  ever-expanding  ward  teaching 
program.  I  learned  of  a  pair  of  ward 
teachers  who  travel  180  miles  each 
month  to  visit  three  families,  and  they 
always  get  the  three  families  visited. 
In  another  stake — I  think  in  Florida — 
two  ward  teachers  travel  160  miles  each 
month  to  visit  the  families  in  their 
district,  and  they  are  always  doing  one- 
hundred  percent  teaching.  If  I  remem- 
ber right,  we  had  a  report  some  time 
ago  of  two  teachers  in  one  of  the 
Canadian  stakes  who  traveled  approxi- 
mately 4,000  miles  a  year  to  visit  those 
in  their  district,  and  they  faithfully 
visited  every  family  each  month. 

I  learned  of  a  faithful  ward  teacher 
up  in  the  Ogden  area  who  has  just 
completed  fifty-six  years  as  a  ward 
teacher  with  a  perfect  record  of  never 
missing  one  month  in  the  fifty-six  years' 
time  that  he  has  been  a  teacher,  even 
though  for  the  first  ten  years  or  more 
he  had  twenty-five  families  in  his  dis- 
trict. He  underwent  a  serious  operation; 
he  had  some  other  difficult  problems, 
but  his  perfect  record  was  maintained 
in  spite  of  these  conditions.  He  is  held 
in  high  esteem  by  the  families  in  his 
district. 

I  learned  of  two  high  priests  who 
impressed  me  very  much.  One  of  them 
is  ninety-two  years  of  age  and  served 
as  a  ward  teacher  for  seventy  years. 
The  other  at  the  age  of  ninety-four  had 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


33 


been  a  ward  teacher  for  eighty-two 
years,  having  started  when  he  was 
twelve  years  of  age.  This  good  brother 
indicated  that  he  had  only  missed  visit- 
ing his  district  four  or  five  times  in  this 
eighty-two  year  period.  In  my  humble 
opinion,  I  think  when  men,  who  give 
this  type  of  service  to  the  responsibili- 
ties that  come  to  them,  report  to  the 
other  side,  someone  is  going  to  stand 
there  with  outstretched  arms,  welcom- 
ing them  into  the  kingdom  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

The  ward  teaching  program  is  one 
of  the  oldest  programs  in  the  Church, 
having  come  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
by  revelation  sometime  between  the 
first  and  sixth  day  of  April  1830,  in 
what  is  known  as  the  twentieth  sec- 
tion of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
The  program  is  designed  to  reach  the 
fireside  of  every  family  in  the  Church 
with  a  spiritual  message  at  least  once 
each  month  and  more  often  if  neces- 
sary. 

Ward  teachers  carry  a  challenging  re- 
sponsibility, that  is,  to  watch  over  the 
Church.  Residing  within  a  ward  teach- 
ing district  may  be  families  and  indi- 
viduals whose  activities  represent  a 
commendable  peak,  while  there  may  be 
some  totally  indifferent  to  things  spir- 
itual. You  may  be  interested  to  know 
that  at  the  present  time  there  are  in 
excess  of  139,000  men  and  boys  serving 
as  ward  teachers  in  the  organized  stakes 
of  Zion.  During  the  year  1958, 
3,386,000  visits  were  made  to  the  homes 
of  these  families,  and  this  represents 
eighty  percent  of  the  families  visited 
every  month  during  the  year,  which  is 
the  highest  record  we  have  achieved 
in  the  Church. 

Ward  teachers  are  expected  to  pro- 
mote the  spirit  of  goodwill;  be  prepared 
to  meet  the  criticism  of  those  who  find 
fault.  They  are  always  to  defend  the 
Church,  uphold  its  doctrine,  and  sup- 
port its  leaders;  to  strengthen  those 
who  are  offended  or  weak  in  the  faith; 
to  comfort  those  who  mourn  or  have 
sorrow;  to  be  among  the  first  to  offer 
assistance  in  cases  of  emergency  and 
sickness;  and  to  deliver  a  message  of 
good  cheer  to  the  discouraged,  the  un- 
fortunate, the  aged,  and  the  homebound. 
Their  message  should  be  gauged  to  meet 
the  understanding  of  both  the  young 
and  the  old  in  each  family. 


If  ward  teachers  faithfully  perform 
their  duties,  each  family — and  for  that 
matter,  each  member  who  is  willing — 
will  find  themselves  enfolded  in  the 
arms  of  the  Church.  In  some  instances, 
faithful  ward  teachers  have  been  re- 
sponsible for  bringing  people  into  the 
Church.  A  member  now  residing  in 
Arizona  made  this  report  to  the  stake 
president  in  my  presence.  He  said: 
"You  do  not  know  who  I  am.  A  few 
years  ago,  I  came  here  from  the  East, 
having  been  retired  because  of  poor 
health,  and  I  was  told  that  if  I  came  to 
Arizona  I  may  have  an  opportunity  to 
prolong  my  life.  I  had  a  little  money, 
and  I  invested  in  some  real  estate.  The 
city  grew  out  my  way,  and  my  property 
became  very  valuable.  I  sold  it,  bought 
more,  and  I  have  made  a  lot  of  money. 
In  short,  this  is  what  has  happened  to 
me. 

"I  have  recovered  my  health.  I  have 
become  a  member  of  your  Church,  first 
having  been  contacted  by  the  ward 
teachers,  who  had  the  stake  mission- 
aries sent  to  me.  I  have  made  a  lot 
of  money.  Now  I  would  like  to  show 
my  appreciation  for  the  goodness  of 
the  Lord  to  me  by  having  you  select 
a  number  of  young  people  who  might 
serve  as  missionaries,  but  who  haven't 
the  finances  to  take  care  of  their  own 
expenses.  You  call  them  and  send  me 
the  bill."  I  thought  that  was  a  nice 
way  to  express  his  appreciation. 

I  should  like  to  close  with  another 
experience  I  have  heard  related  in  which 
ward  teachers  entered  a  family's  home 
who  were  rather  lukewarm,  and  even  a 
little  bitter,  when  the  ward  teachers 
came  to  pay  a  visit. 

In  a  brusk  voice,  the  head  of  the 
family  said,  "I  am  a  very  busy  man. 
You  can  have  fifteen  minutes  to  get 
on  with  your  message."  This  startled 
the  ward  teachers,  and  because  their 
experience  had  not  been  too  great,  they 
paused  and  wondered  just  how  to  ap- 
proach the  subject.  They  learned  about 
some  of  the  children  in  the  family,  and 
discovered  among  them,  a  little  girl 
who  was  going  to  turn  eight  years  of 
age  in  just  a  few  days.  While  they 
were  talking  to  the  children,  the  head 
of  the  family  said,  "Five  minutes  are 
gone;  you  have  ten  minutes  left."  They 
inquired  a  little  further  into  the  fam- 
ily, and  after  a  few  more  minutes,  the 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

man  reminded  them  again  that  they 
had  five  minutes  left.  In  desperation, 
the  ward  teachers  suggested  that  the 
family  kneel  down  and  have  prayer 
with  them  before  they  left.  This  they 
did,  and  during  the  prayer,  the  ward 
teacher  prayed  that  the  Lord  would 
protect  this  little  girl  who  was  about 
to  become  eight  years  of  age,  that  noth- 
ing harmful  would  happen  to  her  but 
that  she  might  be  baptized  a  member 
of  the  Church. 

The  following  day,  this  man  was 
mowing  hay  in  the  field  behind  his 
home.  A  number  of  children  were 
playing  in  the  yard,  among  whom  was 
his  little  daughter.  While  making  one 
of  the  rounds  with  his  tractor,  the 
wheel  of  the  tractor  went  over  a  mound. 
As  he  quickly  looked  around,  he  ob- 
served that  his  daughter  was  missing. 
A  sickening  feeling  overcame  him.  He 
went  to  the  mound,  pushing  aside  the 
hay,  and  deep  below  was  his  little 
daughter,  who  looking  up  said,  "Daddy, 
don't  tell  them  where  I  am.  I  am  hid- 
ing from  them."    The  prayer  of  the 


First  Day 

ward  teacher  had  been  heard.  The 
little  girl's  life  had  been  preserved,  and 
needless  to  say,  the  family's  reaction 
to  the  ward  teachers  was  from  this  time 
forward,  completely  reversed. 

May  we  all  have  a  desire  to  fulfil 
our  assignments  faithfully  and  well,  and 
if  possible,  be  hundred  percenters.  I 
cannot  help  but  be  reminded  of  the 
statement  that  the  Savior  made:  "Be  ye 
therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father 
which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matthew 
5:48.)  To  a  great  degree,  we  can  ac- 
complish this  one-hundred  percent 
perfection. 

I  leave  you  my  testimony  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  great  work,  and  my 
blessing,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Our  closing  speaker  will 
be  Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


From  the  inspiration  of  these  two 
meetings  today  and  after  listening  to 
the  reports  of  my  brethren  from  the 
four  corners  of  the  earth,  along  with  my 
own  deep-seated  testimony  as  to  the 
divinity  of  this  great  latter-day  work,  I 
should  like  to  address  my  remarks  to 
the  subject  of  nine  great  latter-day 
prophets. 

I  reflect  back  130  years  last  February 
when  the  Lord  spoke  to  Joseph  Smith 
saying, 

"Now,  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is 
about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men."  (D&C  4:1.) 

During  this  conference  we  have  heard 
about  the  prophets  in  the  Old  and  New 
Testaments.  In  the  few  moments  which 
are  mine  I  should  like  to  speak  briefly 
about  the  nine  great  men,  modern-day 
prophets,  who  have  been  responsible 
under  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty 
for  directing  this  latter-day  marvelous 
work. 

First,  of  course,  there  was  Joseph 


Smith,  the  prophet,  the  seer,  the  reve- 
lator.  Yes,  he  was  given  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  in  this,  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times.  He  received  a 
personal  visit  from  God  the  Father  and 
Jesus  Christ,  his  Divine  Son.  Reflect 
upon  his  accomplishments  in  the  thirty- 
nine  years  of  his  mortal  life:  organized 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  correct 
and  lawful  manner;  translated  the  Book 
of  Mormon;  received  the  revelations 
from  the  Lord  as  contained  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  also  the  book  of 
Moses  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price; 
translated  some  writings  of  Abraham 
from  one  ancient  record;  wrote  a  3200 
page  history  of  himself  and  the  Church; 
and  was  visited  and  given  instructions 
and  authority  by  the  Savior,  John  the 
Baptist,  Peter,  James,  and  John,  Moses, 
Elias,  and  Elijah  and  then  sealed  his 
testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  all 
these  things  with  his  life's  blood,  fol- 
lowing the  pattern  of  the  Savior  himself. 
Before  Joseph  Smith  was  murdered, 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


35 


he  had  told  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
on  several  occasions  as  reported  by 
Brigham  Young: 

"I  have  laid  the  foundation  and  you 
must  build  thereon,  for  upon  your 
shoulders  the  kingdom  rests."  (History 
of  the  Church,  VII:  230,  August  7,  1844.) 

Upon  the  death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  and 
mantle  of  authority  were  passed  on  to 
the  second  great  latter-day  prophet, 
Brigham  Young,  the  leader  of  modern- 
day  Israel.  He  was  a  great  colonizer  in 
the  face  of  adversity,  crossing  the  plains 
under  most  difficult  conditions  but  with 
great  and  simple  faith  in  God  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ.  Though  persecuted 
and  reviled,  he  knew  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  true  prophet. 

Upon  hearing  of  the  death  of  Joseph 
Smith,  he  declared  "The  keys  of  the 
Kingdom  are  right  here  with  the 
Church,"  for  Brigham  knew  that  the 
Prophet  had  conferred  upon  the  twelve 
"keys  of  the  kingdom."  How  often 
had  Joseph  said  to  the  twelve,  "I  have 
laid  the  foundation,  and  you  must  build 
thereon,  for  upon  your  shoulders  the 
kingdom  rests."  (Comprehensive  History 
of  the  Church,  vol.  2,  p.  415.)  Brigham 
Young  died  at  the  age  of  seventy-six 
having  built  a  great  empire  in  the  des- 
ert. 

He  was  succeeded  by  John  Taylor, 
a  loyal  devoted  servant  of  the  Lord, 
who  was  honest  and  industrious;  loving 
liberty,  truth,  and  righteous  living — 
sweet-spirited,  kind  to  friend  and  stran- 
ger alike,  tolerant,  he  nevertheless  set 
his  face  as  flint  against  any  form  of 
evil  or  wrongdoing.  (The  Presidents  of 
the  Church  by  Preston  Nibley,  page  87.) 
He  received  the  appropriate  title, 
"Champion  of  Liberty." 

Upon  his  death,  the  keys  were  then 
passed  to  another  great  leader,  Wilford 
Woodruff.  Wilford,  the  faithful!  This 
title  was  earned  because  of  "his  integrity 
and  unbounded  devotion  to  the  worship 
and  purposes  of  his  God."  While  on  a 
mission  in  the  Southern  States  in  1834, 
he  and  his  companion  walked  sixty 
miles  between  sunrise  and  10  o'clock  at 
night  without  a  morsel  of  food  to  eat. 
At  the  end  of  this  journey,  he  asked 
himself  the  question:  "For  what?"  He 
answered  his  own  question,  "To  teach 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ!"  Wilford 


had  loved  to  mingle  with  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  had  this  to  say  of 
him: 

"There  is  not  so  great  a  man  as 
Joseph  standing  in  this  generation.  The 
gentiles  look  upon  him,  and  he  is  like 
a  bed  of  gold,  concealed  from  human 
view.  They  know  not  his  principles, 
his  wisdom,  his  virtue,  his  calling.  His 
mind  is  like  Enoch's,  expands  as  eter- 
nity, and  God  alone  can  comprehend 
his  soul."  (The  Presidents  of  the  Church 
by  Preston  Nibley,  pp.  138-139.) 

One  prophet  speaking  of  another 
prophet  of  God!  Wilford  Woodruff 
lived  to  be  ninety-one. 

Lorenzo  Snow  then  received  the  man- 
tle of  authority.  Though  he  was  eighty- 
four  when  called  to  this  responsible 
position,  he  carried  on  the  great  work. 
The  people  and  the  Church  at  the  time 
were  heavily  indebted,  and  he  promised 
that  they  would  get  out  of  debt  if  they 
would  pay  their  tithes  and  offerings. 
That  doctrine  has  not  changed.  It  is 
just  as  effective  today  as  it  was  in  the 
day  of  President  Lorenzo  Snow.  Tithing 
became  a  spiritual  gift  rather  than  a 
material  duty. 

Then  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  passed 
on  to  Joseph  F.  Smith.  He  was  the 
first  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  with 
whom  it  was  my  privilege  to  shake 
hands.  Since  then  I  have  personally 
known  all  the  other  prophets.  I  shall 
ever  be  grateful  for  the  experience  as  a 
boy  to  feel  the  tenderness  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  He  was  kind;  he  was 
lovingly  devoted.  If  you  desire  to  un- 
derstand the  depths  of  his  spirituality, 
read  his  messages  of  inspiration  con- 
tained in  the  volume  Gospel  Doctrine 
on  such  subjects  as  "Priesthood,"  "First 
Principles  of  the  Gospel,"  "The  Mission 
of  the  Church,"  "Prayer,"  "Spiritual 
Gifts,"  "Tithing,"  "Industry,"  "Many 
Duties  of  Man,"  "Marriage,"  "Home," 
"The  Family,"  "Political  Government," 
"Eternal  Life  and  Salvation,"  and  many 
others.  He,  like  all  the  others,  left 
his  strong  testimony  to  bless  the  genera- 
tions to  come. 

Then  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  passed 
to  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  a  man 
who  taught  all  a  lesson  in  persistence, 
proving  what  could  be  accomplished  by 
sheer  persistence.  He  learned  to  write. 
He  learned  to  sing.    He  learned  to 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

speak.  His  example  reminds  me  of  the 
counsel  given  by  my  mission  president, 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  thirty-seven  years 
ago,  "You  learn  to  do  by  doing." 

In  1901  before  he  was  President  of 
the  Church  and  before  leaving  to  fill 
a  mission  to  Japan,  Heber  J.  Grant  ad- 
dressed a  congregation  of  young  people 
in  which  he  bore  this  testimony: 

"Young  men  and  young  ladies,  I  leave 
with  you  my  testimony  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  that  Lorenzo  Snow,  today  is  a 
prophet  of  God.  How  do  I  know  it?  I 
know  it  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  stand 
before  you  tonight.  I  know  heat.  I 
know  cold.  I  know  joy  and  I  know 
sorrow,  and  I  say  to  you  that  in  the 
hour  of  sorrow,  in  the  hour  of  affliction, 
in  the  hour  of  death,  God  has  heard 
and  answered  my  prayers,  and  I  know 
that  He  lives,  and  I  leave  my  testimony 
with  you."  (Presidents  of  the  Church, 
Preston  Nibley,  p.  298.) 

Then  at  his  death,  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  passed  to  another  great  leader, 
President  George  Albert  Smith,  an 
apostle  of  love.  He  had  a  great  love  in 
his  heart  for  all  men,  not  only  the 
membership  of  the  Church,  but  also 
all  menl  He  desired  to  share  with 
others  the  light  of  the  gospel  which 
had  come  into  his  life.  I  have  heard 
him  suggest  many  times  to  those  not 
of  our  faith  that  they  do  not  give  up 
the  truths  they  have,  but  that  they  ac- 
cept further  truths  from  us. 

After  he  had  received  the  keys  and 
the  mantle  of  authority  and  was  sus- 
tained by  the  membership  present  in 
this  marvelous  building,  he  expressed 
his  great  love  for  his  counselors  who 
stood  by  his  side  on  that  occasion, 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay. 

President  Smith  held  positions  of 
responsibility  and  was  honored  by  such 
organizations  as  the  Sons  of  the  Ameri- 
can Revolution,  International  Irrigation 
Congress,  Boy  Scouts  of  America,  Utah 
Pioneer  Trails  and  Land  Marks  Asso- 
ciation. At  eighty-one  his  mortal  life 
came  to  a  close.  The  keys  of  the  king- 
dom and  the  mantle  of  authority  were 
passed  on  to  President  David  O.  McKay, 
the  missionary  prophet!  I  believe  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  visited  all  the  missions 


First  Day 

of  the  Church  where  in  each  one  he  has 
touched  the  lives  of  people  for  good. 
He  has  built  them  in  their  faith  and 
in  their  courage  and  strengthened  their 
testimony  in  the  divinity  of  this  great 
work. 

President  McKay  has  also  dedicated 
four  temples:  one  in  Berne,  Switzer- 
land, in  Los  Angeles,  California,  in 
Auckland,  New  Zealand,  and  in  London, 
England.  Also  he  has  dedicated  many, 
many  other  Church  buildings.  Not 
only  has  he  dedicated  buildings,  but 
his  whole  life  has  also  been  dedicated 
to  the  building  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 
I  am  grateful  for  his  life,  for  his  power 
and  strength.  He  and  his  lovely,  de- 
voted wife  have  set  the  world  a  high 
example  in  the  concept  of  a  good  mar- 
riage— good  in  all  its  connotations!  He 
has  said  so  much  about  the  importance 
of  a  clean  life,  of  honoring  woman- 
hood, of  understanding  the  gospel  and 
of  serving  the  Master.  He  will  leave 
so  many  truths  for  coming  generations. 
I  give  you  one  admonition  from  Presi- 
dent McKay  which  is  so  timely  and 
most  important  for  all  of  us,  young  and 
old,  (I  have  heard  him  say  this  on 
numerous  occasions)  "We  are  here  to 
develop  the  power  of  self-mastery." 
Analyze  this  statement.  Live  by  it  and 
see  what  it  will  do  for  you! 

Truly,  as  his  predecessors  passed  on 
the  keys  of  the  kingdom,  the  mantle  of 
authority  is  now  held  by  our  Prophet 
David  O.  McKay.  Because  of  this  au- 
thority, we  have  been  given  the  right 
to  legitimately  administer  in  the  name 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  the  Father  of 
our  spirits,  and  in  the  name  of  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ. 

And  so  upon  the  shoulders  of  nine 
great  men  in  our  day  has  fallen  the 
mantle  of  priesthood  leadership.  The 
chain  is  unbroken.  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  bestowed  upon  Joseph  Smith 
the  authority  to  act  in  their  names. 
There  have  been  nine  prophets  who 
have  held  the  keys  of  the  kingdom — ■ 
nine  Presidents  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  gen- 
eration. None  other  on  the  earth  has 
this  authority.  Each  prophet  has  left 
behind  a  monument  for  good  that  time 
cannot  efface  or  obliterate.  No  indi- 
vidual has  ever  gone  astray  by  follow- 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


37 


ing  the  counsel  of  these  prophets,  but 
many  have  experienced  tragedy  and 
sorrow  by  going  counter  to  their  coun- 
sel. 

I  should  like  to  suggest  to  young 
people  as  they  study  their  history  les- 
sons that  they  reserve  enough  time  to 
study  the  history  of  the  lives  of  these 
nine  great  men  and  seek  a  witness  of 
their  divine  authority. 

May  we  realize  the  power  of  these 
great  men.  I  bear  witness  that  they 
were  and  are  prophets  of  God;  that 
David  O.  McKay  is  the  mouthpiece  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  in  the  earth  today 
who  does  hold  the  keys  of  the  king- 
dom, and  the  mantle  of  authority,  and 
this  testimony  I  bear  in  humility  and 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  The 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with,  "The 
Spirit  of  God,"  conducted  by  Professor 
Ralph  Woodward.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Axel  J.  Andre- 
sen,  formerly  president  of  the  Norwegian 
Mission,  after  which  this  Conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  7  o'clock  this 
evening  when  the  general  meeting  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  Only 
those  holding  the  Priesthood  are  in- 
vited to  be  present. 

In  addition  to  overflow  meetings  in 


the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  the 
proceedings  of  this  Priesthood  Meeting 
will  be  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in 
167  other  Church  buildings  from  Coast 
to  Coast  and  in  Canada. 

The  general  sessions  tomorrow  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  west.  The  Tabernacle  Choir  broad- 
cast will  be  from  9:30  to  10:00  a.m. 
Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast 
should  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15  a.m. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  have  furnished  the 
music  this  day.  We  thank  you  in  be- 
half of  the  vast  audience  here  in  the 
Tabernacle  and  other  buildings.  I  in- 
clude all  who  have  listened  to  your 
voices  over  the  radio.  I  am  sure  you 
can  feel  their  expression  of  appreciation 
of  your  kindness.  God  bless  you  with 
a  safe  journey  home,  and  may  your 
future  be  filled  with  sweet  service  such 
as  you  have  given  to  us. 

We  shall  now  hear  the  Choir  sing, 
"The  Spirit  of  God,"  and  Elder  Axel 
J.  Andresen  will  offer  the  benediction, 
and  we  shall  be  adjourned  until  this 
evening  at  7  o'clock. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  the  hymn,  "The 
Spirit  Of  God  Like  A  Fire  Is  Burning." 

Elder  Axel  J.  Andresen,  formerly 
President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7  o'clock 
p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  4. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  with  Richard  P.  Condie  as  Di- 
rector, and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ,  furnished  the  music  for  this 
meeting. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  exercises  of  this  great 
meeting  of  the  Priesthood.  The  Presi- 
dent made  the  following  introductory 
remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  the  Third  Session  of  the  One 
Hundred  Twenty-ninth  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church.  You  will  be  in- 
terested to  know  that  these  services  are 
being  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  in 
167  other  Church  buildings  from  Coast 
to  Coast  and  in  Canada.  It  would  take 
a  long  while  to  read  all  of  them,  but 
I  am  sure  you  will  be  interested  in  the 


38 

Saturday,  April  4 

summary:  California,  27;  Oklahoma,  1; 
Oregon,  7;  Pennsylvania,  3;  South  Caro- 
lina, 2;  Utah,  34;  Idaho,  14;  Illinois,  1; 
Indiana,  1;  Minnesota,  1;  Missouri,  2; 
Montana,  6;  Nevada,  3;  Texas,  3;  Vir- 
ginia, 5;  Washington,  8;  Wisconsin,  1; 
New  Mexico,  2;  New  York,  3;  North 
Carolina,  1;  Ohio,  4;  Arizona,  11;  Can- 
ada, 7;  Colorado,  6;  Florida,  4;  Georgia, 
1;  Louisiana,  1;  Massachusetts,  1; 
Michigan,  1;  Wyoming,  4;  Maryland,  1; 
Connecticut,  1;  Total,  167  in  31  states 
of  the  Union  and  in  Canada. 

Truly,  Zion  is  growing,  and  what  a 
consciousness  we  should  have  just  to 
think  that  we  are  sitting  here,  with 
groups  all  over  the  United  States,  and 
with  a  means  of  communicating  even 
by  voice  as  well  as  in  the  brotherhood 
of  Christ. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie  as  director,  and  Elder 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We 
shall  begin  these  services  by  the  Men's 
Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing, 
"O  My  Father."  After  the  singing  Elder 
Ariel  S.  Ballif,  until  recently  president 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  will  offer 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's  Chorus 
sang  the  hymn,  "O  My  Father." 

Elder  Ariel  S.  Ballif,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ariel  S.  Ballif,  formerly  presi- 
dent of  the  New  Zealand  Mission,  has 
just  offered  the  invocation.  The  Men's 
Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
now  sing,  "Seek  Thy  God,"  directed  by 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 


Selection  by  the  Men's  Chorus  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  "Seek  Thy  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Benja- 
min L.  Bowring,  president  of  the  Los 
Angeles  Temple.  He  will  speak  on  the 
subject,  "Family  Responsibility  in 
Genealogy." 


PRESIDENT  BENJAMIN  L.  BOWRING 

Of  the  Los  Angeles  Temple 


My  beloved  brethren,  it  is  with  the 
deepest  of  humility  that  I  stand  before 
you.  I  recognize  the  power  in  this  great 
body  of  the  Priesthood,  and  humbly  ask 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers 
as  I  fulfill  this  assignment.  Last  Mon- 
day, the  Los  Angeles  Temple  being 
closed,  my  son  and  I  drove  to  town  to 
do  some  business,  and  after  we  returned 
we  called  at  the  Bureau  of  Information 
to  pick  up  the  mail  and  to  see  if  there 
might  be  anything  of  importance  to 
take  care  of.  My  son  picked  up  the 
mail,  and  as  he  came  out  to  the  car  he 
said,  "Dad,  there  is  a  telegram  here."  I 
said,  "Son,  read  it."  And  as  he  finished 
reading  it  he  said,  "Dad,  you'd  better 
move  over  and  let  me  drive.  You  won't 
have  the  strength  when  you  read  this." 

After  reading  the  telegram  from  Presi- 
dent McKay  giving  me  this  assignment, 
I  could  think  of  a  hundred  excuses. 
Unfortunately,  we  had  just  been  dis- 
cussing the  importance  of  accepting  re- 


sponsibilities given  us  by  the  Brethren. 

The  topic  assigned  to  me,  my  brethren, 
is  of  vital  importance,  and  I  sincerely 
pray  that  I  may  be  able  to  express  the 
feelings  of  my  heart  in  relation  to  this 
most  important  assignment  given  us  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  Moroni,  in  re- 
iterating the  prophecy  of  Malachi  as 
recorded  in  Section  2  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  has  said  this: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the 
Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts 
of  the  children  the  promises  made  to 
the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

"If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth 
would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 
(D.  &  C.  2:1-3.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  was  so  impressed 
by  this  that  he  made  the  following 
statement:  "The  greatest  responsibility 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  L.  BOWRING 


39 


in  this  world  that  God  has  laid  upon 
us  is  to  seek  after  our  dead.  Those 
Saints  who  neglect  it  in  behalf  of  their 
deceased  relatives  do  it  at  the  peril  of 
their  own  salvation." 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  read 
to  us  today  the  statements  of  the  suc- 
ceeding prophets  of  our  day,  impressing 
upon  us,  each  of  them,  the  importance 
of  this  great  responsibility  given  us  of 
the  Lord.  The  responsibility  rests  upon 
the  Church,  upon  the  family,  upon  the 
individual  members  of  the  Church.  As 
far  as  I  have  been  able  to  determine, 
the  only  members  of  the  Church  who 
may  be  absolved  from  responsibility  in 
this  great  work  of  the  Lord  are  those 
who  do  not  have  any  ancestors.  Some- 
times we  brethren  of  the  Priesthood 
attempt  to  excuse  ourselves  because  of 
the  responsibilities  that  we  have  as 
bishops,  stake  presidents,  and  the  many 
other  responsibilities  that  come  with 
the  Priesthood. 

May  I  read  these  words  of  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith:  "It  matters  not 
what  else  we  have  been  called  to  do 
or  what  positions  we  may  occupy,  or 
how  faithfully  in  other  ways  we  have 
labored  in  the  Church.  None  are 
exempt  from  this  obligation.  It  is  re- 
quired of  the  Apostle  as  well  as  the 
humblest  elder.  Place  or  distinction 
or  long  service  in  the  Church,  in  the 
mission  field,  the  stakes  of  Zion,  or 
where  or  how  else  it  may  have  been, 
will  not  entitle  one  to  disregard  the 
salvation  of  one's  dead.  Some  may  feel 
that  if  they  pay  their  tithing,  attend 
their  regular  meetings  or  other  duties, 
give  of  their  substance  to  the  poor, 
perchance  spend  one  or  two  or  more 
years  preaching  in  the  world,  that  they 
are  absolved  from  further  duty.  But 
the  greatest  and  grandest  duty  of  all 
is  to  labor  for  the  dead.  We  may  and 
should  do  all  these  other  things  for 
which  reward  will  be  given,  but  if  we 
neglect  the  weightier  privilege  and 
commandment,  notwithstanding  all 
other  good  works,  we  shall  find  our- 
selves under  severe  condemnation." 

Now  that  is  pretty  strong,  isn't  it 
brethren?  That  is  the  responsibility 
with  which  we  are  faced.  Now  what 
is  involved  in  this  responsibility?  First, 
that  we  obtain  and  compile  an  accept- 
able family  record.    Second,  that  we 


provide  all  necessary  ordinances  for  the 
exaltation — truly  a  big  assignment.  But 
the  promise  given  Nephi  will  apply  to 
us  if  we  approach  this  responsibility  with 
the  faith  that  Nephi  had,  wherein  he 
said:  "I  will  go  and  do  the  things 
which  the  Lord  hath  commanded,  for 
I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  com- 
mandments unto  the  children  of  men, 
save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them 
that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing 
which  he  commandeth  them."  (I  Nephi 
3:7.) 

And  so  the  Lord  has  provided  the  way 
for  us  to  fulfill  this  great  responsibility. 
Just  this  morning  we  were  told  in  a 
meeting  at  the  Genealogical  Society  that 
last  year  in  one  private  collection  alone 
the  Genealogical  Society  procured  a 
German  collection  of  records  containing 
over  seven  million  names,  and  during 
the  past  year  there  has  been  the  equi- 
valent of  140,000  volumes  microfilmed 
and  placed  at  our  disposal  in  the  Gene- 
alogical Society. 

Non  members  of  the  Church  have 
compiled  voluminous  records  available 
to  us  that  we  might  do  the  research 
required.  The  nations  of  the  earth  have 
been  moved  upon  to  keep  vital  statistics 
and  records  that  we  might  use  these 
vital  records.  The  Brethren  have  ex- 
pended millions  of  dollars  that  the  rec- 
ords from  the  various  countries  of  the 
world  might  be  brought  here,  and  we 
have  here  in  the  Genealogical  Society 
of  the  Church  the  greatest  library  on 
earth.  The  Lord  is  providing  the  way 
and  means  for  us  to  fulfill  the  responsi- 
bility that  he  has  given  to  us. 

Now,  while  the  Lord  may  provide 
the  tools  he  expects  us  to  use  them.  I 
believe  I  can  best  illustrate  what  I  am 
talking  about  by  the  experience  of  our 
own  family.  My  grandfather  was  Henry 
Ebenezer  Bowring.  He  was  born  in 
Stratton-Dorsett,  England,  converted  to 
the  Church  in  1849.  His  father,  Joseph 
Bowring,  had  established  a  fine  business 
— carriage  building  and  harness  mak- 
ing— and  Bowring  Brothers  was  a 
prosperous  business.  When  my  grand- 
father joined  the  Church  in  1849,  he 
was  denounced  by  his  family.  All  he 
received  from  his  share  of  a  flourishing 
business  was  less  than  five  pounds. 

He  went  to  London  to  work,  and 
from  there  to  Ireland,  where  he  worked 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

for  six  years  to  accumulate  sufficient 
funds  to  come  to  America.  Just  before 
coming  to  America  he  buried  his  wife 
and  one  child,  but  he,  with  the  other 
two  came  to  this  land,  landing  in  Bos- 
ton, according  to  Tullidge's  history,  with 
one  cent  in  his  pocket.  He  worked  his 
way  to  Iowa,  there  was  outfitted  with  a 
handcart,  pulled  the  handcart  1300 
miles  to  Salt  Lake  Valley.  He  was  so 
completely  disowned  by  his  people  that 
though  he  tried  to  correspond  with 
them,  they  would  have  nothing  to  do 
with  him. 

Finally,  in  his  old  age,  he  went  to 
the  Logan  Temple  and  there  did  the 
work  for  his  father  Joseph  Bowring,  and 
his  grandfather,  Thomas  Bowring,  with 
approximated  dates  and  places  because 
he  did  not  have  definite  information. 
He  had  worked  all  his  life  to  try  to 
obtain  such  information. 

Then  came  my  father,  who  was  an 
ardent  temple  worker,  and  who  was 
charged  with  the  responsibility  to  seek 
his  ancestors,  and  he  had  worked  many 
years  but  to  no  avail.  Then  the  charge 
was  given  to  me.  In  1943  there  ap- 
peared in  a  newspaper  in  Ripley's 
column,  "Believe  It  Or  Not,"  a  picture 
with  this  caption.  "Sir  John  Bowring, 
linguist,  writer,  and  traveller,  knew  200 
languages.  He  spoke  and  wrote  cor- 
rectly French,  Spanish,  Italian,  German, 
Russian,  Swedish,  Danish,  Dutch,  Greek, 
Chinese,  Siamese,  Sandscript,  Hawaiian, 
Singalese,  Arabic,  Turkish,  Finnish, 
Icelandic,  Bohemian,  and  80  others,  and 
knew  100  more." 

Well,  with  such  an  illustrious  ances- 
tor you  would  naturally  gain  interest, 
and  as  this  appeared  in  an  eastern 
newspaper,  my  cousin  whose  mother  was 
a  Bowring,  after  seeing  this  happened 
to  go  through  a  trade  magazine  where 
he  saw  an  article  which  indicated  that 
a  Bowring  Steamship  Company  had 
opened  offices  in  New  York  City.  And 
so  out  of  curiosity  he  wrote  to  Warren 
Bowring,  and  when  he  received  a  reply 
to  his  letter,  knowing  of  my  interest  in 
genealogical  work,  he  sent  the  letter 
to  me,  and  Mr.  Bowring  said  that  he 
was  very  much  surprised  to  learn  that 
there  were  any  Bowrings  in  America; 
that  the  family  was  a  prolific  one  in 
England.  He  said:  "As  a  matter  of 
fact  we  have  published  a  book  entitled, 
'Benjamin  Bowring  and  His  Descend- 


First  Day 

ants.' "  He  enclosed  a  pedigree  chart 
carrying  the  Bowring  pedigree  back  to 
1303. 

On  the  pedigree  we  found  a  Thomas 
Bowring,  whom  we  hoped  would  be  my 
second  great  grandfather.  From  that 
day  to  this,  though  this  printed  record 
made  available  to  us  some  3000  names 
for  temple  work,  we  had  to  prove  this 
connection,  and  so  we  have  been  corre- 
sponding with  a  researcher  in  England. 

Last  April  Conference,  in  going  to 
the  Society  and  talking  to  our  researcher 
he  said,  "Now,  Brother  Bowring,  if  you 
will  raise  $500  by  July  I  think  we  can 
send  a  man  right  into  the  territory  and 
we  can  really  accomplish  something." 
I  said,  "We  will  have  the  $500."  I  did 
not  know  how  we  were  going  to  raise  it, 
but  then  I  called  upon  my  family,  told 
them  what  was  required  of  us,  but  even 
then  it  was  rather  an  uphill  job  to 
raise  $500  in  that  much  time. 

About  two  weeks  before  the  $500  was 
due  there  came  into  my  office  a  fine 
Latter-day  Saint  man,  and  he  said, 
"Brother  Bowring,  I  have  been  con- 
cerned about  your  research.  You  know, 
the  Lord  blessed  me  with  more  than 
enough  to  do  what  I  have  to  do  in  re- 
search. I  have  just  found  that  your 
wife  is  my  wife's  cousin,  so  that  makes 
me  a  part  of  your  family,  and  I  have  a 
responsibility  in  this  thing.  Here  is  a 
check  for  $500  to  help  you  with  re- 
search work."  The  money  was  pro- 
vided, and  so  the  order  was  sent  to 
England  to  establish  the  necessary  con- 
nections. Due  to  so  much  work  being 
over  there,  it  has  taken  up  until  just 
last  month  to  get  the  work  in  the  hands 
of  a  researcher,  and  in  the  meantime 
this  cousin  of  mine  who  was  in  Wichita, 
Kansas,  now  presides  over  the  British 
Mission. 

On  the  20th  of  March  of  this  year 
he  wrote:  "It  is  a  strange  coincidence 
that  I  have  just  met  Mr.  Colliard  to 
whom  the  Bowring  research  has  been 
assigned.  He  has  just  completed  read- 
ing the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  has  a 
sincere  interest  in  the  Church.  The 
missionaries  are  teaching  him  the  gos- 
pel." 

In  the  same  mail  that  contained  the 
telegram  giving  me  this  assignment  I 
received  another  letter  from  my  cousin 
who  said,  "I  have  just  talked  to  our 
genealogist,  Mr.  Colliard.    In  his  pre- 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  L.  BOWRING 


41 


liminary  search  he  has  found  exciting 
information.  He  has  established  a  key 
through  Joseph  and  Thomas  Bowring 
that  will  likely  open  an  entire  field  to 
us.  He  was  so  excited  he  had  to 
come  all  the  way  to  London  to  tell  me 
about  it,  and  is  confident  that  he  will 
find  many,  many  of  our  ancestors 
through  these  connections." 

My  how  good  the  Lord  is  to -us  if 
we  will  just  avail  ourselves  of  the  op- 
portunities that  he  gives  us.  And  so, 
my  brethren,  it  is  of  vital  importance 
that  we  do  band  together  as  families, 
in  pooling  our  knowledge  and  our  re- 
sources in  gaining  these  important  vital 
records.  What  a  wonderful  thing  it 
would  be  in  our  homes  if  we  would 
undertake  as  family  projects  first  of  all 
the  building  of  an  individual  Book  of 
Remembrance,  and  then  as  a  family 
working  together  to  seek  out  our  an- 
cestors. 

Now  in  connection  with  the  responsi- 
bility that  we  have  to  provide  the  neces- 
sary ordinances.  In  speaking  of  a  fulness 
of  the  Priesthood,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  said  this:  "There  is  no  exaltation 
in  the  Kingdom  of  God  without  the 
fulness  of  the  Priesthood.  If  a  man 
gets  a  fulness  of  the  Priesthood  of  God 
he  has  to  get  it  by  keeping  all  the  com- 
mandments, and  obeying  all  the  ordin- 
ances of  the  House  of  the  Lord.  The 
Lord  has  made  it  possible  for  every  man 
in  this  Church,  through  his  obedience, 
to  receive  the  fulness  of  the  Priesthood 
through  the  ordinances  of  the  temple 
of  the  Lord.  This  cannot  be  received 
anywhere  else." 

Now  again,  the  Lord  has  provided 
for  this  situation.  What  a  thrilling 
thing  it  is  to  know  there  are  temples 
now  not  only  in  this  glorious  land,  but 
in  foreign  lands,  where  members  of 
the  Church  will  have  easy  access  to  the 
House  of  the  Lord,  that  they  might  go 
there,  receive  their  blessings,  and  ful- 
fill their  responsibilities. 

One  of  our  leaders  has  said,  "Sacri- 
fice not  only  develops  love,  but  it  is 
the  only  real  proof  of  love."  I  cannot 
think  of  any  greater  sacrifice  than  made 
by  our  folks  who  give  of  their  time  and 
means  to  come  to  the  House  of  the 
Lord  to  provide  these  sacred  ordinances 
for  their  deceased  people.  I  think  of  a 
grand  group  of  folks,  150  in  number, 


who  recently  came  to  the  Los  Angeles 
Temple,  travelling  800  miles  each  way, 
spending  two  or  three  days  coming  in 
buses,  and  on  the  train,  and  before 
doing  so,  they  had  had  suppers  and 
had  cooked  baked  goods,  to  provide  the 
means  to  come.  They  came  there  with 
such  a  glorious  sweet  spirit,  quietly, 
reverently  working  as  families,  because 
their  children  were  brought  with  them 
to  take  care  of  baptismal  ordinances 
while  the  parents  were  doing  the  en- 
dowment and  sealing  work  necessary. 

After  their  return  the  stake  president 
said,  "I  am  sure  the  spirit  received  in 
the  temple  will  remain  with  us  and 
improves  the  quality  of  our  work  as 
we  serve  the  Lord  in  our  individual 
capacities."    And  truly  it  will  do  that. 

Recently  we  have  had  an  extremity 
in  the  Los  Angeles  Temple,  as  is  true 
in  the  other  temples.  Under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Lord  the  Brethren  have 
given  to  us  in  the  Los  Angeles  Temple 
an  Advisory  Committee.  As  a  temple 
presidency  we  have  no  right  nor  au- 
thority to  assign  quotas  or  tell  the 
stake  presidents  what  they  should  do. 
We  found  early  in  our  experience  in 
California,  however,  that  all  you  have 
to  do  is  suggest  to  the  folks  what  you 
want  and  they  go  ahead  and  do  it.  So 
we  made  suggestions  to  our  Advisory 
Committee,  and  they  in  turn  carried 
the  suggestions  to  the  stake  president, 
indicating  our  need  for  bringing  into 
balance  the  endowment  work  as  far 
as  the  Priesthood  was  concerned.  It 
was  the  decision  of  the  stake  presidents 
that  we  should  devote  certain  Satur- 
days to  Priesthood  Sessions. 

Well,  we  started  the  Priesthood  Ses- 
sions at  6  o'clock  in  the  morning  and 
went  through  until  6  o'clock  in  the 
evening,  a  session  every  hour  on  the 
hour.  At  a  quarter  after  four  in  the 
morning  when  Sister  Bowring  and  I 
walked  over  to  the  temple  there  were 
two  or  three  buses  from  San  Francisco 
there,  with  a  number  of  cars,  already 
waiting  to  get  into  the  temple.  Before 
9  o'clock  there  were  over  1500  brethren 
in  the  Los  Angeles  Temple,  and  dur- 
ing a  single  day  these  fine  men  did  a 
total  of  2946  male  names  in  the  Los 
Angeles  Temple.  I'll  tell  you  we  went 
home  tired,  but  it  was  a  mighty  good 
tired.  Those  brethren,  busloads  of  them 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

from  the  Bay  Area,  from  San  Diego, 
from  all  over  the  temple  district,  among 
them  two  busloads  of  Servicemen  from 
Fort  Ord,  and  what  a  thrill  it  was  to 
see  those  fine  young  men  come  to  the 
House  of  the  Lord  to  provide  these 
sacred  ordinances. 

It  has  been  a  great  privilege  of  mine 
to  work  under  the  direction  of  President 
McKay  and  others  in  providing  situa- 
tions in  the  Los  Angeles  Temple  for 
the  blessing  and  good  of  our  people. 
With  all  the  responsibility  of  President 
McKay  I  marvel  at  his  knowledge  of 
the  detail  of  temple  work.  Surely  he 
of  all  men  has  made  an  extensive  study, 
and  has  great  interest  in  this  work  and 
the  importance  of  presenting  this  im- 
portant vital  message  to  our  people  in 
a  way  that  it  can  be  understood.  I  am 
grateful  that  I  belong  to  a  Church  that 
believes  in  continued  revelation,  that 
under  the  power  of  God  we  may, 
through  his  servants,  be  able  to  utilize 
modern  facilities  for  the  blessing  and 
good  of  our  people.  I  am  grateful  for 
the  privilege  that  is  mine  to  work  in 


First  Day 

the  House  of  the  Lord  where  these 
sacred  ordinances  are  performed. 

The  Lord  has  said,  "This  is  life 
eternal:  to  know  thee,  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  In  the  House  of  the  Lord  as 
individuals,  as  families,  we  can  receive 
for  ourselves  the  vital  ordinances  that 
will  qualify  us  for  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom,  and  provide  for  our 
ancestors  these  like  ordinances. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said:  "One 
glimpse  into  the  eternities  is  worth  a 
life  of  experience."  In  the  House  of 
the  Lord  we  may  gain  a  glimpse  into 
the  eternities.  May  the  Lord  help  us, 
my  brethren,  to  appreciate,  to  realize 
and  accept  our  family  responsibility  and 
individual  responsibility  in  this  great 
work,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Edward  L.  Clissold,  president 
of  the  Oahu  Stake,  will  now  speak  to 
us.  His  subject  is  "The  Church  and 
Temple  Work." 


PRESIDENT  EDWARD  L.  CLISSOLD 

Of  the  Oahu  Stake 


My  dear  brethren,  you  can  help  me 
if  you  are  disposed  to  do  so  by  giving 
me  the  traditional  greeting  which  we 
have  in  Hawaii.  I  am  going  to  say 
"Aloha"  and  I  want  you  all  to  say 
"Aloha"  back  to  me  if  you  will. 

"Aloha!"  (The  Brethren  assembled 
responded  with  "Aloha!") 

Now  I  feel  at  home.  Thank  you  very 
much.  Now  if  you  will  pray  for  me 
that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  that  I  may 
give  expression  to  my  thoughts  per- 
taining to  this  most  important  subject, 
the  Church  and  temple  work. 

Some  time  ago  there  was  a  statement 
had  among  us  to  the  effect  that  the 
German  Army  and  the  Mormon  Church 
were  the  two  most  perfect  organizations 
in  the  world.  Every  successful  organiza- 
tion has  at  least  three  important  ele- 
ments: a  plan,  a  mission  or  an  objective, 
and  the  administration  or  the  execution. 
The  German  Army  failed.  It  is  quite 
possible  that  the  plan  was  good.  The 
relationship  of  officers  to  men  and 
strategy  to  logistics  may  have  been  good 
but  the  mission  was  not  good.  The 


mission  was  to  subjugate  the  world. 
The  administration  was  not  good.  The 
men  who  enforced  the  rules  of  the  Ger- 
man Army  were  drunk  with  power. 
They  exercised  unrighteous  dominion 
and  because  of  this  the  German  Army 
failed. 

That  leaves  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  as  the  most  perfect 
organization  in  the  world — and  it  is 
because  it  is  divine.  It  was  organized 
by  Jesus  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world. 
The  mission  is  also  divine.  The  objec- 
tive of  the  Church  is  the  Lord's  work, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man.  The  administration 
of  the  Church,  as  someone  has  said,  is 
human.  We  are  striving  for  perfection. 
When  we  as  the  servants  of  God  attain 
perfection  in  our  characters  and  deeds, 
in  our  service  to  men  and  to  God,  then 
will  the  Church  be  perfect  in  all  of 
its  elements. 

For  the  purpose  of  administration  the 
Church  is  divided  into  several  organiza- 
tions. We  have  just  completed  the 
wonderful  conference  of  the  Primary 


ELDER  EDWARD  L.  CLISSOLD 


43 


organization.  Its  objective  is  the  teach- 
ing of  the  children  of  the  Church.  We 
have  the  MIA.  Its  mission  is  to  teach 
and  train  the  young  people  of  the 
Church,  to  instill  in  them  a  testimony 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have 
the  Relief  Society  whose  duty  it  is  to 
train  the  women  and  supervise  their 
services  in  the  Church.  We  have  the 
Welfare  organization,  which  has  to  do 
with  the  unfortunate  in  the  Church, 
and  to  provide  work  for  those  who  are 
unemployed. 

Amongst  all  the  organizations  there 
is  one  that  stands  out  preeminently.  We 
hesitate  to  use  the  words  best,  most  or 
greatest,  with  regard  to  any  of  the  or- 
ganizations in  the  Church,  but  if  we 
accept  the  scripture  of  the  Lord  then 
this  work  about  which  Brother  Bowring 
has  been  talking,  and  to  which  I  have 
been  assigned  to  speak,  is  the  greatest 
and  the  most  important  in  the  Church. 
When  we  say  temple  work  we  mean 
genealogical  research.  We  mean  the 
family  records.  We  mean  presenting 
an  acceptable  record  in  the  House  of 
the  Lord.  We  mean  baptism  for  the 
dead,  endowments  for  the  dead,  and 
endowments  for  the  living. 

As  we  contemplate  this  work,  my 
brethren,  we  can  begin  to  understand 
why  it  is  the  greatest  work.  When  we 
think  of  the  mission  of  the  Savior — to 
bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eter- 
nal life  of  man — we  can  understand 
why  Joseph  Smith  said  that  this  is  the 
greatest  responsibility  that  God  has  laid 
upon  us  in  the  world;  that  we  neglect 
this  temple  work  at  the  peril  of  losing 
our  own  salvation;  that  our  dead  can- 
not be  made  perfect  without  us,  nor  we 
without  them.  Temple  work  transcends 
more  space,  more  time  and  more  people 
than  any  other  work  in  the  Church. 
The  other  organizations — particularly 
the  auxiliaries — have  to  do  with  here 
and  now.  Temple  work  has  to  do  with 
eternity.  Through  genealogical  re- 
search we  reach  back  into  the  dark 
ages  of  the  past  to  get  our  records. 
Through  temple  work  we  enjoy  the 
endowments  today  for  ourselves  and 
for  our  families.  Through  temple  work 
we  project  our  hopes  and  our  dreams 
into  the  future.  We  have  sealed  upon 
ourselves  the  promise  that  we  will  en- 
joy glory,  immortality,  and  eternal  life. 
And  since  the  Savior's  work  is  to  save 


all  mankind — not  only  those  who  live 
now  but  all  who  have  lived  and  will 
live — surely  he  needs  the  help  that  we 
can  give.  He  needs  our  aid  and  our 
support  in  this  great  and  important 
mission. 

New  stress  is  being  laid  upon  gene- 
alogical work.  I  am  grateful  to  know 
that  recently  the  Genealogical  Society 
has  instituted  a  plan  to  carry  the  gene- 
alogical program  into  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  quorums.  Certainly  we  have 
that  responsibility,  and  we  also  have 
the  responsibility  of  temple  work  itself, 
preparing  the  records,  going  to  the  tem- 
ple to  perform  the  ordinances,  and  this 
responsibility  rests  upon  every  member 
at  baptism.  I  think  sometimes  we  be- 
lieve that  we  can  make  it  a  matter  of 
election,  that  we  can  elect  to  do  it 
or  not  as  we  wish  as  the  time  presents 
itself  or  is  available.  I  believe  faithful 
members  of  the  Church  can  no  more 
leave  to  election  the  work  for  the 
dead — temple  work  and  genealogical 
work — than  they  can  leave  to  election 
the  keeping  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
the  payment  of  tithes  and  the  keeping 
of  the  Sabbath  Day. 

It  is  not  a  matter  of  election.  It  is 
our  duty  and  our  responsibility,  and  we 
must  discharge  it  else  we  stand  in 
danger  of  losing  our  own  salvation. 
There  is  not  a  member  of  the  Church 
who  cannot  carry  on  some  genealogical 
research,  and  that  has  been  true  since 
the  very  beginning.  Unfortunately  that 
has  not  been  true  of  temple  work.  Some 
of  the  members  have  lived  in  areas 
where  they  were  unable  to  attend  the 
temple.  So  we  have  always  been  a 
temple  building  people  as  the  Lord  has 
commanded,  and  always  shall  be,  and 
every  President  of  this  Church  has 
either  dedicated  a  temple  or  built  a 
temple  or  dedicated  the  land  upon  which 
a  temple  should  be  built,  and  I  think 
we  should  all  be  so  grateful  that  the 
spirit  of  this  great  work  has  rested  in 
such  power  upon  President  David  O. 
McKay. 

A  passage  in  Proverbs  says  that  the 
spirit  in  men  is  the  candle  of  the  Lord. 
I  have  thought  in  that  same  vein  that 
the  temples  are  the  lamps  of  the  Lord, 
and  particularly  since  they  have  been 
lighted,  how  they  glow  like  lamps  in 
the  darkness.  I  have  pictured  our  great 
President  as  a  lamplighter,  if  he  .will 


44 

Saturday,  April  4 

permit  the  title,  striding  through  the 
earth  lighting  the  lamps  of  the  Lord — a 
dedication  in  Los  Angeles,  and  away  off 
to  Switzerland,  then  to  New  Zealand, 
and  then  way  back  to  England,  more 
than  halfway  around  the  world. 

They  are  like  cities  upon  a  hill  that 
cannot  be  hid.  They  not  only  remind 
us  of  our  responsibilities,  they  become 
landmarks  and  symbols  to  the  people 
outside  of  the  Church.  Brother  Chris- 
tiansen told  us  this  morning  of  the 
response  in  England  and  in  Europe  to 
the  temples  built  there.  We  have  had 
similar  response  in  the  Pacific  to  the 
building  of  the  New  Zealand  Temple, 
and  it  has  been  a  joy  to  see  our  people 
go  and  come  back  with  a  quiet  sure- 
ness  to  their  faith,  with  a  deeper  mod- 
esty and  a  more  sober  aspect. 

When  we  were  on  a  ship  recently 
traveling  through  the  Coral  Islands,  I 
learned  that  there  was  a  group  of 
Tongan  Saints  on  the  ship  coming  from 
the  temple.  After  we  got  underway  in  a 
few  hours,  I  heard  voices,  and  following 
the  sounds  found  people  dancing  and 
singing  in  a  boisterous  manner.  I 
thought  this  cannot  be  our  Saints  who 
have  been  to  the  temple.  I  went  on 
and  under  a  canopy  at  the  end  of  the 
deck  I  found  a  quiet  group  in  sober 
conversation.    These  were  our  Saints. 

I  asked  the  mission  president,  "Have 
you  noticed  any  difference  in  our  peo- 
ple since  going  to  the  temple?"  And 
he  said,  "Most  assuredly.  They  come 
back  with  greater  devotion,  more  peace 
in  their  hearts,  firmer  faith,  and  an 
increased  desire  to  serve." 

Those  of  you  who  know  anything 
about  Samoa  know  that  the  Matai  sys- 
tem rests  upon  the  social  and  economic 
life  of  these  Islands  like  an  octopus, 
and  some  of  our  people  are  caught  in 
the  tentacles.  One  man  in  particular 
who  is  of  chief's  rank  had  been  debat- 
ing for  some  time  whether  or  not  he 
should  become  a  Matai  and  exercise 
this  authority  over  his  own  family  and 
the  group  who  would  come  under  his 
sway.  He  was  undecided,  although  he 
was  tempted  by  the  power  that  is 
wielded  by  a  Matai.  He  went  to  the 
temple,  and  when  he  came  back  he 
said,  "I  learned  there  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  supercedes  all  customs 
and  all  traditions,  no  matter  how  an- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

cient  and  revered,  and  I  learned  that 
the  power  of  the  priesthood  is  greater 
and  more  to  be  desired  than  the  power 
of  men."  He  made  his  decision  that  he 
would  not  be  a  Matai.  He  told  us  that 
many  believe  the  Matai  system  could 
only  be  overcome  by  revolution,  but 
he  thought  it  would  be  destroyed  by  the 
power  of  the  priesthood.  He  said: 
"When  the  men  of  our  Church  rise  up 
in  the  magnitude  of  their  ordination 
and  exercise  their  priesthood  for  the 
benefit  and  blessing  of  the  people  the 
Matai  system  and  its  power  will  cease." 

Brethren,  the  lamps  are  burning.  As 
you  leave  this  hall  this  night  you  will 
see  one  burning  outside  these  doors. 
Those  lamps  remind  us  of  the  glorious 
opportunity  and  privilege  which  is  ours 
to  share  with  the  Lord  salvation  of  all 
of  his  children.  They  also  remind  us 
of  our  responsibility,  and  as  President 
Clark  said  this  morning,  he  likes  to 
dwell  upon  his  responsibility,  even 
though  his  privileges  and  blessings  are 
great. 

This  is  a  meeting  of  the  priesthood — 
mostly  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  We 
know  our  duty,  brethren.  Perhaps  the 
inclination  or  the  will  to  do  is  the 
need.  In  that  connection  I  think  of  a 
poem  by  John  Drinkwater  called  "A 
Prayer."  With  a  verse  or  two  from  the 
poem  I  should  like  to  close. 

"We  know  the  paths  wherein  our  feet 

should  press 
Across  our  hearts  are  written  thy  decrees 
But  now,  O  Lord,  be  merciful  and  bless 
With  more  than  these. 
Give  us  the  faith  to  fashion  as  we  feel 
Give  us  the  strength  to  labor  as  we 

know 

Give  us  the  courage  ribbed  and  edged 

with  steel 
To  strike  the  blow. 
Knowledge  we  ask  not — knowledge  thou 

hast  lent 
But  Lord,  the  will, — 
There  lies  our  greatest  need 
Help  us  to  build  above  the  deep  intent 
The  deed,  the  deed." 

May  God  inspire  us  to  labor  diligently 
for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  those 
who  have  gone  beyond,  that  we  may 
truly  be  partners  with  the  Savior  in  his 
great  work,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


45 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Congregation  will  now  sing,  "Do 
What  is  Right,"  with  Elder  Richard  P. 
Condie  conducting. 


The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 


Choir,  and  the  congregation,  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  will 
now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren:  I  do  not  wish  to  bring 
a  light  thought  to  this  very  solemn  and 
wonderful  occasion,  so  rich  in  its  spir- 
ituality, but  I  cannot  but  remember  a 
short  story  I  read  recently,  where  a  man 
got  up  without  any  presumed  prepara- 
tion— that  is  not  quite  what  my  position 
should  have  been — but  as  he  got  up,  he 
said,  "I  guess  you  gentlemen  are  won- 
dering what  I  am  going  to  say.  So  am 
I." 

We  have  pictured  in  strong  language, 
painted  with  vivid  colors,  our  duty  to- 
ward our  dead.  President  Joseph  Field- 
ing led  off  and  Brother  Bowring  and 
Brother  Clissold  have  supported  in  a 
very  wonderful  way.  I  think  that  none 
of  us — perhaps  that  is  not  quite  the  way 
to  say  it — but  I  think  that  many  of  us, 
including  myself,  have  had  presented 
to  us  this  matter  not  altogether  in  a 
new  way,  but  in  a  way  that  has  brought 
home  a  little  more  clearly  than  perhaps 
we  have  heretofore  enjoyed,  our  duty 
and  responsibility  with  reference  to  the 
caring  for  our  dead. 

I  should  like  to  say  this  much  in 
justification  for  myself.  I  think  I  have 
never,  while  I  have  been  in  the  First 
Presidency,  raised  any  objection  to  the 
gathering  of  the  materials  necessary  to 
be  gathered  in  order  that  we  might  do 
the  work  for  our  deceased  ancestors.  I 
have  always  regarded  it  as  money  pro- 
perly spent,  perhaps  not  always  has  it 
been  spent  in  the  most  wise  way — I  have 
no  criticism  to  offer,  for  I  know  nothing 
about  it — but  I  do  know  this,  that  in 
the  carrying  on  of  human  undertakings, 
wherever  you  begin  to  make  great  ex- 
penditures of  money,  there  is  always 
some  lack  of  wisdom,  sometimes  lack  of 
foresight,  occasionally,  oh  so  occasion- 
ally in  this  Church,  a  lack  of  integrity. 

Just  branching  off  for  a  moment — the 
amount  of  money  that  is  collected  by 


you  bishops  and  sent  in  to  the  treasury 
of  the  Church  is  enormous.  And  the 
percentage  of  malfeasance  in  the  collec- 
tion of  that  money  is  simply  microscopic. 
This  is  a  great  Church  in  its  integrity 
in  the  handling  of  Church  funds. 

Now,  as  I  sat  and  listened  here,  one 
or  two  thoughts  came  into  my  mind.  I 
do  not  wish  to  speak  long  because  I 
know  that  you  want  to  hear  from  Presi- 
dent McKay  and  I  am  sure  he  will 
have  a  great  message  for  you.  But  I 
do  want  to  say  this:  if  we  are  to  go 
forward  in  the  manner  suggested  by  the 
two  brethren  who  have  spoken  to  us, 
we  must  have  a  supporting  force.  It 
cannot  be  done  merely  by  words.  We, 
the  Priesthood,  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood, must  support  it,  work  for  it,  make 
it  our  job.  And  in  making  it  our  job, 
there  is  something  more  than  words, 
more  than  pretence.  There  must  be 
living.  We  must  live  as  we  know  we 
should  live. 

We  are  endowed  with  some  portion — 
and  pardon  my  repetition  of  what  I  have 
already  said — endowed  with  some  por- 
tion of  the  authority  of  God  himself. 
He  does  not  live  in  unclean  temples. 
We  must  be  clean.  We  must  keep  his 
commandments,  for  if  and  when  he 
leaves  us,  as  he  will  if  we  do  not  live 
as  we  should,  we  shall  for  the  time 
being  lose  our  power,  lose  our  usefulness, 
lose  our  enthusiasm,  lose  all  that  we 
ought  to  have  in  order  to  go  forward, 
and  it  will  take  some  time  after  we  have 
found  out  our  mistakes  and  our  errors 
to  get  back  into  the  work. 

Repentance  is  not  easy.  Repentance, 
as  the  Lord  has  said,  is  marked  by  two 
elements — a  confession  in  the  proper 
way  to  the  proper  person,  and  a  for- 
saking of  the  sin. 

I  repeat,  if  you  will  pardon,  that  the 
authority  which  you  brethren  and  all 


46 

Saturday,  April  4 

of  us  have  who  have  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  is  a  type  of  authority  that 
carries  with  it  the  greatest  power  that 
has  ever  been  revealed  to  humankind. 
The  mighty  forces  of  which  we  now  talk 
so  glibly,  and  ignorantly,  are  subject  to 
the  powers  which  you  have,  and  they 
are  powers  which  can  rest  effectively 
and  fully  in  the  humblest,  the  very 
humblest.  It  takes  no  elaborate  equip- 
ment, no  great  funds  of  wealth,  no  tre- 
mendous political  power,  in  order  for 
the  humblest  of  us  to  have  in  us  the 
power  which  o'ertops  everything  else  of 
which  we  know. 

It  requires  no  elaborate  equipment, 
no  great  institutions,  no  scholars  of 
years  and  years  and  years  to  direct  us. 
One  of  the  ancient  prophets  declared, 
regarding  the  way  of  blessings,  "the 
way  of  holiness,"  that  it  is  so  plain  that 
"the  wayfaring  men,  though  fools,  shall 
not  err  therein."  (Isaiah  35:8.) 

We  do  not  need  any  expensive  equip- 
ment in  order  to  live  righteously,  in 
order  to  have  within  our  reach  under 
the  inspiration  and  power  of  the  Lord 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  greatest  force,  the  greatest  author- 
ity of  which  God  has  ever  made  us 
aware. 

And  so  while  we  must  do  this  mis- 
sionary work  which  is  so  important, 
we  must  remember  to  keep  the  sup- 
porting army,  the  whole  Church,  in 
proper  shape,  with  proper  equipment, 
with  righteous  living,  with  a  determina- 
tion to  do  the  right,  to  the  last  extremity 
if  necessary. 

I  do  not  wish  to  speak  longer.  I  only 
ask  you,  do  not  forfeit  the  power  and 
the  authority  which  you  have;  para- 
phrasing, do  not  sell  your  great  spir- 
itual birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage  of 
some  slight  worldly  value. 

May  God  bless  all  of  us,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  speak  to  us, 
and  "you  must  not  cut  it  short."  (Laugh- 
ter.) 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren,  I  rejoice  with  you  in 
this  semi-annual  reunion  of  the  Priest- 
hood. It  is  a  marvelous  reunion,  made 
possible  by  miracles  of  the  modern  day, 
for  it  comprehends  not  only  those  fill- 
ing the  Tabernacle  and  the  areas  round 
about,  but  all  of  the  men  and  boys  as- 
sembled across  the  nation.  I  believe 
that,  while  we  are  not  in  each  other's 
presence,  our  hearts  are  unified,  that 
we  share  the  same  sentiments,  and  that 
the  same  resolutions  for  the  advance- 
ment of  our  Father's  Kingdom  come  to 
all  of  us. 

I  like  to  see  the  reunion  of  these  great 
powers — these  powers  of  the  Priesthood. 
I  like  to  see  unity  in  quorums.  I  be- 
lieve the  Lord  expected,  when  quorums 
were  instituted,  that  they  should  pro- 
vide a  unified  strength  necessary  to  meet 
the  problems  of  this  great  latter-day 
work. 

In  the  earlier  days  of  the  Church 
there  were  serious  physical  problems  to 
meet.  Sometimes  our  Priesthood  was 
required  to  defend,  other  times  to  build, 


in  unison,  by  cooperative  effort.  They 
had  to  stand  together.  I  remember  not 
long  ago  when  an  application  came  to 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church  through 
a  family  for  the  restoration  of  the 
father's  blessings.  We  learned  that  he 
had  been  excommunicated  from  the 
Church.  As  I  remember  he  lived  in 
upper  Cache  Valley.  And  when  we 
investigated  we  discovered  the  cause  of 
his  excommunication — trading  at  the 
store  of  a  Gentile.  Now  that  would 
seem  trivial  and  most  unjustifiable  in 
this  day.  Perhaps  in  that  day  it  meant 
much  to  a  community  of  Latter-day 
Saints  engaged  in  a  common  enterprise, 
seeking  to  establish  the  necessary  in- 
dustry for  that  community,  and  for  one 
of  the  Priesthood  to  forsake  his  breth- 
ren, in  the  eyes  of  the  men  was  regarded 
as  a  serious  offense. 

We  do  not  have  conditions  like  that 
today,  but  we  do  have  tremendous  prob- 
lems to  meet  in  the  incursion  of  the 
sins  of  the  world  in  our  midst.  In  our 
subjection  to  adverse  conditions  morally 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


47 


we  have  to  stand  together  to  protect 
ourselves,  and  there  is  great  strength  in 
standing  together.  The  fortification 
that  comes  to  an  individual  when  he 
knows  that  his  quorum  members  have 
a  real  and  abiding  interest  in  him,  when 
he  knows  that  they  are  watching  him, 
has  a  salutary  effect  and  it  helps  him, 
and  is  oftentimes  a  great  need. 

So  I  think  that  we  have  a  necessity 
confronting  us  in  all  parts  of  the  land 
where  the  Church  is  orgaized  to  unite 
our  forces,  our  spiritual  forces  and 
strength,  to  resist  everything  that  tends 
to  prevent  men  from  achieving  their 
highest  station  in  this  great  work  of 
the  Lord. 

Now  I  would  not  take  your  minds  far 
away  from  the  temple  work  which  has 
been  spoken  of  tonight,  but  it  occurs 
to  me  that  in  addition  to  the  great  neces- 
sity of  compiling  our  genealogy  and 
doing  the  work  for  our  kindred  dead, 
there  are  those  living  whom  we  should 
carefully  keep  in  mind.  I  think  of  two 
classes  tonight:  first,  those  men  among 
us  bearing  the  Priesthood  who  have  not 
taken  their  wives  to  the  temple.  I  do 
not  know  how  many  may  be  represented 
of  that  class  in  these  great  meetings 
held  throughout  the  land,  but  I  venture 
that  there  are  some.  I  ask  them  to  pause 
and  consider  what  they  are  depriving 
their  wives  and  their  families  of.  I 
know  that  many  a  good  woman  is  hop- 
ing and  praying  that  her  husband  will 
prepare  himself  to  go  to  the  temple, 
to  have  her  and  her  children  sealed  to 
him  and  prepare  themselves  for  the 
exalted  blessings  which  await  them 
through  the  ordinances  of  the  House 
of  our  Lord.  Brethren,  you  love  your 
wives.  They  love  you.  You  can  do 
nothing  more  important  for  them  than 
to  prepare  yourselves  to  take  them  to 
the  House  of  the  Lord. 

There  is  another  class,  and  they  are 
young  men,  and  I  imagine  there  are 
literally  thousands  of  them  scattered 
throughout  our  audiences  tonight,  who 
are  looking  forward  to  life,  looking  for- 
ward to  marriage,  looking  forward  to 
careers,  and  with  life's  ambitions  looking 
foward  with  great  hope.  I  would  like 
to  say  to  these  young  men,  from  the 
very  beginning  you  can  do  nothing  more 
profitable,  more  contributive  to  your 
happiness,  than  prepare  yourselves  for 


marriage  in  the  temple.  I  know  of 
nothing  that  will  more  strengthen  fam- 
ily life,  contribute  more  to  its  happiness 
than  will  this  sacred  and  beautiful  cere- 
mony which  is  provided  for  us  in  the 
House  of  the  Lord. 

And  how  do  you  prepare  yourselves 
for  this  beautiful  and  rewarding  experi- 
ence? Just  by  good  living,  keeping  all 
the  commandments,  doing  your  duty 
within  the  Church,  and  securing  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truth  which  will  give  to 
you  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Re- 
member, it  will  never  profit  you  any- 
thing by  deception  to  win  your  way  into 
the  temple.  It  is  true  that  we  may  deceive 
our  bishops,  our  presidents  of  stakes. 
Some  may  get  recommends  without  re- 
vealing what  they  ought  to  reveal.  It 
is  useless.  All  the  blessings  of  the 
temples  are  predicated  upon  faithful- 
ness, upon  obedience  to  the  command- 
ments. No  blessing  is  effective  unless 
it  is  based  upon  the  good  life  of  him 
who  receives  it.  It  is  a  mistake  for  any- 
one to  think  that  by  concealing  or  sup- 
pressing something  that  ought  to  be 
known  he  can  secure  a  recommend  to 
go  to  the  temple.  That  is  futile,  and 
even  worse  than  futile,  because  the 
suppressing  of  the  fact  is  itself  an  addi- 
tional offense. 

I  hope  all  of  my  young  brethren  and 
sisters,  young  brethren  particularly  since 
we  speak  to  them  tonight,  will  prepare 
themselves  to  be  worthy  first  of  the 
companionship  of  a  good  girl,  and  then 
to  take  her  where  she  would  like  to 
go — to  the  temple  of  our  Lord.  Our 
sisters,  even  young  ones,  look  forward 
to  that  great  experience,  and  if  we  do 
not  take  them  where  they  wish  to  go 
we  disappoint  them. 

I  pray  that  our  Father  will  bless  our 
young  folk,  our  young  men,  that  they 
may  prepare  themselves  for  this  great 
and  beautiful  experience — the  most 
beautiful  experience  that  comes  into  our 
lives,  the  very  basis  of  our  hopes  for 
eternal  life  and  happiness — for  after  all, 
a  home  sanctified  by  the  holy  sealing 
in  the  temple  forms  the  foundation  of 
our  eternal  happiness  in  the  life  to 
come.  And  as  I  have  often  said,  our 
exaltation  is  little  more  than  the  pro- 
jection of  our  home  into  eternity. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  brethren.  May 


48 

Saturday,  April  4 

you  not  only  live  such  lives  yourselves 
as  to  be  worthy  of  these  transcendent 
blessings,  but  may  you  teach  others  so 
to  do  and  help  them  to  understand  the 
great  and  beautiful  blessings  that  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  holds  out.  You 
remember  that  wonderful  statement  of 
the  Savior's:  "In  my  Father's  house  are 
many  mansions:  if  it  were  not  so,  I 
would  have  told  you.  I  go  to  prepare 
a  place  for  you."  (John  14:2.) 
I  do  not  claim  to  have  read  theological 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

commentaries  to  any  great  extent,  but 
I  have  never  heard  an  explanation  of 
that  wonderful  statement  by  any  theo- 
logian in  this  world,  because  I  think  no 
one  has  an  explanation  except  that 
which  has  come  with  the  restored  gospel, 
defining  the  way  in  which  men  and 
women  may  prepare  themselves  for  that 
high  station  in  the  mansions  of  our 
Father.  May  we  reach  that  station — 
all  of  us — I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Associated  with  the  temple  work, 
dwelt  upon  tonight  by  the  two  brethren 
appointed,  and  corroborated  by  the  two 
counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  is 
the  little  simple  ordinance  of  baptism. 
Many  Christians  do  not  believe  that  it 
is  essential  to  salvation.  I  was  but  a 
boy  when  a  minister  visiting  Huntsville 
shocked  me  by  saying  it  was  not  essen- 
tial, and  especially  by  immersion.  I 
knew  of  no  other  way  but  by  immer- 
sion. Baptism  is  essential  to  salvation, 
and  Christ  gave  the  first  real  view  of 
it  to  a  member  of  the  Sanhedrin  when 
Nicodemus  called  upon  him  by  night. 
I  think  that  he  was  not  ashamed  of 
calling  upon  Jesus  by  day,  but  he  was 
a  busy  man.  I  like  to  interpret  that 
phrase,  "by  night,"  because,  Nicodemus, 
with  his  work  in  the  Sanhedrin  and 
other  ways,  could  better  spend  an  hour 
or  two  with  the  Savior  at  night. 

A  great  conversation  took  place,  and 
they  dwelt  upon  salvation,  and  Christ's 
first  statement  was,  "Except  a  man  be 
born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom 
of  God."  That  is  a  sentence  well 
worthy  of  consideration  and  contem- 
plation. It  is  easier  to  see  the  temporal 
things,  it  is  easier  to  see  the  lascivious 
things,  it  is  easier  to  indulge  in  any- 
thing physical  and  animal-like.  It  is 
the  animal  world.  But  to  be  born  out 
of  that  world  into  a  spiritual  world  is 
advancement  that  the  Lord  requires  of 
us,  and  the  example  that  Jesus  set  for 
us.  Except  a  man  be  born  again,  out 
of  that  world,  he  cannot  see  that  spir- 
itual light  where  love,  kindness,  self- 
denial,  self-mastery,  self-control — all  of 
the  spiritual  virtues — contribute  to  the 


development  of  the  real  man.  Nico- 
demus could  not  understand  that,  and 
he  spoke  literally. 

"How  can  a  man  enter  the  second 
time  into  his  mother's  womb  and  be 
born  again?"  See  the  physical  interpre- 
tation? Then  the  Savior  was  more  ex- 
plicit. He  said,  "Except  a  man  be  born 
of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God."  (John 
3:5.)  There  is  the  essentiality  of  bap- 
tism, whether  the  world  thinks  it  merely 
a  form  or  not.  In  those  two  sentences 
we  have  the  purpose  of  life — the  over- 
coming of  the  physical,  the  animal  life, 
the  striving  and  the  living  in  the  spirit- 
ual realm.  There  you  have  the  three- 
fold purpose  of  baptism. 

First,  it  is  an  entrance  into  the  king- 
dom of  God.  It  is  the  doorway,  and  it 
is  significant  that  that  doorway  is  by 
immersion.  Sprinkling  will  not  give  it.  It 
spoils  the  symbol.  Pouring  will  not  give 
it.  Only  by  immersion  can  that  birth 
mentioned  by  Jesus  be  properly  carried 
out.  There  are  three  elements  in  which 
we  are  buried — the  air,  which  is  our  nat- 
ural element;  the  earth,  in  which  we  can 
be  buried,  which  takes  the  physical, 
and  ends  it;  we  can  be  buried  in  water 
and  come  out,  and  the  typical  compari- 
son of  birth  is  complete  because  it  means 
when  you  get  a  glimpse  of  the  spirtiual 
you  want  to  leave  off  the  animal  life, 
with  its  appetites,  indulgences,  and  to 
develop  the  spiritual  instead  of  the 
physical  side  of  your  nature. 

So  we  are  buried  in  that  element, 
burying  the  old  man  with  his  appetites, 
passions,  enticements,  and  coming  forth 
anew.    We  are  born  again,  buried  with 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


49 


Christ  in  baptism,  said  the  Apostle, 
for  like  as  Christ  was  buried,  and  came 
forth  in  a  newness  of  life,  so  we  also 
shall  come  forth  in  a  newness  of  life 
with  all  our  bad  habits,  our  enmities, 
our  hatreds,  buried  in  the  water. 

Christ  thought  it  was  so  essential  that 
he  came  to  John  the  Baptist.  John  pro- 
tested, "I  have  need  to  be  baptized  of 
thee,  and  comest  thou  to  me?" 

"Suffer  it  to  be  so  now:  for  thus  it 
becometh  us  to  fulfil  all  righteousness," 
said  the  Savior.  And  then  we  are  told 
that  John  suffered  him.  Fulfilling  all 
righteousness  is  a  command  of  God,  so 
there  you  have  the  entrance  into  his 
kingdom.  You  have  obedience  to  a 
command  of  God,  and  you  have  the 
beautiful,  the  most  applicable  figure 
that  can  possibly  be  given  in  fulfilling 
all  righteousness.  You  bury  yourself, 
you  bury  your  bad  habits,  you  bury 
your  sins,  and  you  come  forth  in  new- 
ness of  life,  just  as  Christ  came  forth 
in  the  resurrection. 

It  is  a  good  thing,  bishops,  to  tell  this 
simply  to  the  little  boys  who  are  going 
to  be  baptized.  They  can  remember  it. 
You  remember  when  you  were  eight 
years  of  age  when  you  were  baptized. 
If  your  father  did  not  talk  to  you  pro- 
perly, or  your  bishop,  they  failed  in 
their  duty.  Of  course  the  sins  of  an 
eight-year-old  boy  will  be  telling  "fibs," 
probably,  or  taking  what  does  not  be- 
long to  him,  a  lot  of  little  things,  but 
they  are  important,  and  the  boy  or 
girl  can  understand  that  those  things 
now  are  buried  beneath  the  water,  and 
they  are  going  to  start  to  be  a  better 
brother  or  better  sister,  etc.  That  can 
be  explained. 

My  point  tonight  is  that  there  is  no 
salvation  without  that  baptism.  "Suffer 
it  to  be  so  now  to  fulfill  all  righteous- 
ness." What  about  the  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  people  who  have  not  had 
an  opportunity  for  it?  And  that  bap- 
tism, that  burial  and  that  birth  must 
be  done  by  proper  authority.  You  can- 
not become  a  citizen  of  the  United 
States  without  complying  with  certain 
laws,  certain  requirements.  Christian 
divines  will  tell  you  it  does  not  matter 
what  road  you  take.  They  will  all  lead 
to  Rome  just  the  same.  They  will  lead 
to  the  United  States,  too,  so  you  may 
enter  the  country;  but  if  you  want  to 


become  a  citizen  of  the  United  States 
you  have  to  obey  certain  laws,  and  so 
you  do  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  and 
baptism  is  the  one  door. 

Now,  what  about  those  who  have 
never  heard  of  the  Gospel — choice  peo- 
ple? You  travel  anywhere  in  the  world 
and  you  meet  true  gentlemen,  lovely 
people  everywhere,  many  honest  people. 
It  is  surprising  how  many  honest  up- 
right people  are  living  in  the  world.  I 
will  illustrate  it  with  an  instance  that 
I  have  quoted  before. 

A  Chinese  student  was  on  a  ship  go- 
ing from  the  United  States  back  home, 
a  graduate  of  one  of  our  universities. 
On  the  vessel  was  a  minister  who  was 
advancing  Christianity.  Well,  the 
young  student  knew  a  good  deal  about 
it.  He  knew  also  about  the  high  ideals 
of  the  Chinese.  During  the  conversa- 
tion the  necessity  of  believing  in  Jesus 
Christ  was  emphasized.  The  Chinese 
student  said,  "Well,  what  about  my 
ancestors  who  never  heard  of  Jesus?" 

The  answer  was  rather  flippant,  but 
it  is  in  keeping  with  the  false  ideas  of 
Christianity  generally.  "Oh,  they  are 
lost." 

Rightly  that  young  student  said,  "I 
will  have  nothing  to  do  with  a  re- 
ligion so  unjust."  If  you  had  been 
there  you  would  have  given  them  the 
ideals  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
revealed  word,  the  true  Christianity,  that 
the  work  will  be  done  for  them,  but 
they  will  have  to  accept  baptism,  just 
as  Jesus  and  all  others  must  accept  it. 
They  must  be  born  again  before  they 
will  glimpse  even  the  high  spirituality 
required  of  a  true  Christian.  They  have 
to  be  born  of  the  water  and  of  the  spirit 
before  they  can  enter  into  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

Brethren,  God  bless  you,  you  messen- 
gers of  the  gospel,  you  authorized  serv- 
ants of  the  Almighty,  you  true 
representatives  of  the  Son,  the  Savior  of 
men!  God  give  you  power  to  live  in 
the  spirit,  walk  in  the  spirit.  How  fre- 
quently we  hear  those  phrases  from  the 
scriptures. 

That  means  that  those  who  make 
covenants  for  their  loved  ones  and 
participate  in  the  highest  ideal  of  mar- 
riage ever  given  to  man  will  walk  in 
the  spirit  and  not  indulge  in  the  flesh. 
You  will  be  true  to  the  covenants  you 


50 

Saturday,  April  4 

make  in  the  House  of  God.  So  will 
your  wives  walk  in  the  spirit,  resisting 
temptation,  keeping  conscience  clear, 
and  feeling  by  so  doing  that  you  can 
go  to  the  Lord  in  prayer  and  ask  him 
for  strength  and  guidance  just  as  Jesus 
did  when  he  was  in  the  flesh.  He  knew 
his  Father.    He  could  go  to  him. 

He  went  to  him  just  before  he  per- 
formed the  great  miracle  of  raising 
Lazarus  from  the  dead.  He  said,  "I 
know  that  in  the  past  thou  hast  heard 
me,  and  he  exercised  the  power  of  his 
Father,  the  power  of  his  God — creative 
power.  He  was  always  with  his  Father. 
He  was  God  himself,  and  he  said  to 
one  of  the  disciples  when  they  said  to 
show  them  the  Father,  "Have  I  been 
with  you  so  long  and  ye  ask  Show  us 
the  Father?  If  ye  have  seen  me  ye 
have  seen  the  Father."  Spirituality  at 
its  highest. 

I  was  thrilled  when  we  came  in  here 
tonight  and  saw  this  crowd  and  realized 
that  hundreds  were  listening  in.  To  be 
one  with  you  is  one  of  the  greatest 
blessings  of  mortality.  We  all  prize  a 
friend  and  know  the  value  of  a  friend. 
Next  to  wife  and  loved  ones,  the  sweet- 
est thing  in  life  is  a  friend,  true  and 
loyal.  But  even  more  than  that  is  the 
brotherhood  of  Christ  which  makes  us 
partakers  of  the  divine  nature.  Peter 
used  that  phrase.  That  rough  old  fisher- 
man realized  what  it  was,  and  yet  he 
had  only  a  few  years'  experience.  But 
we  have  that  brotherhood  which  we 
feel  tonight  until  it  becomes  intimate 
to  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

I  pray  that  the  sense  of  responsibility 
of  Priesthood  will  increase  and  make  us 
feel  the  mission  before  us — worldwide — 
and  then  make  us  go  beyond  the  veil 
and  realize  that  in  some  way  we  may 
help  the  Lord  to  bring  about  this  great 
purpose,  which  has  been  repeated  here 
tonight,  to  bring  about  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man,  for  all  his  chil- 
dren, and  all  of  them  will  have  an 
opportunity  some  way,  somehow,  some- 
where to  say,  "Yes,  I  accept  it,"  or 
"No,  I  reject  it." 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Priest- 
hood will  be  ours  in  our  homes,  in  our 
business,  in  our  associations  with  the 
world,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  is  from  Orlando,  Florida:  "Dear 
President  McKay:  Closed  circuit  recep- 
tion of  the  General  Priesthood  Meeting 
is  excellent  in  Orlando,  Florida.  Please 
accept  our  deep  and  sincere  appreciation 
for  making  it  possible  for  us  to  join 
with  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  in 
this  inspiring  service.  Faithfully  yours, 
Orlando  Stake  Presidency." 

In  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  there  are 
7730  present;  Assembly  Hall,  Barratt 
Hall  and  Temple  Grounds,  2869;  from 
167  groups  reporting  in,  34,688,  or  a 
total  of  men  of  the  Priesthood,  45,287, 
the  largest  ever  to  attend.  In  April, 
1958  we  had  45,154;  October,  1958, 
38,403.    Tonight,  I  repeat,  45,287. 

It  is  thrilling  to  be  with  you.  I  wish 
particularly  to  express  appreciation  to 
the  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  They  have  blessed  our  lives 
with  dignity,  and  have  appeared  here 
in  their  best,  the  whole  Choir  of  men's 
voioes,  and  how  inspirationally  they 
have  sung!  Brother  Condie,  we  appre- 
ciate your  efforts,  and  you  men  of  the 
Choir,  your  willingness  to  go  to  the 
trouble  that  you  have  to  come  here  to 
render  the  service  which  has  been  so 
inspirational.  God  bless  you. 

They  will  now  sing  for  us,  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour."  How  appropriate. 
After  the  singing  Elder  Clifton  G.  M. 
Kerr,  formerly  president  of  the  British 
Mission,  will  offer  the  benediction,  and 
this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  un- 
til 10  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

Thank  you,  Brother  Bowring  and 
Brother  Clissold,  for  your  inspiring 
words  tonight. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Men's  Chorus,  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Clifton  G.  M.  Kerr,  recently 
president  of  the  British  Mission,  will 
now  dismiss  us. 


Elder  Clifton  G.  M.  Kerr,  formerly 
president  of  the  British  Mission,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday, 
April  5,  at  10:00  a.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


(For  a  full  report  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  see  page 
123) 

The  Sunday  morning  session  of  the 
Conference  convened  at  10  o'clock  a.m., 
April  5th,  immediately  following  the 
conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the 
Conference  was  furnished  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
at  this  meeting  and  conducted  the  serv- 
ices. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will 
open  these  services  by  singing,  "Jesus, 
Our  Lord,  We  Adore  Thee."  The  open- 
ing prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Henry  A.  Smith,  president  of  the  Central 
Atlantic  States  Mission. 


The  Choir  sang  as  an  opening  num- 
ber, "Jesus,  Our  Lord,  We  Adore  Thee." 
Elder  Henry  A.  Smith,  president  of 


the  Central  Atlantic  States  Mission,  of- 
fered the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Invocation  just  offered  was  by 
Elder  Henry  A.  Smith,  president  of  the 
Central  Atlantic  States  Mission.  The 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "Behold,  God  the 
Lord  Pass  By." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Behold, 
God  the  Lord  Pass  By." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  who  heard  that  great  broadcast 
this  morning  know  that  it  was  under 
the  direction  of  Richard  P.  Condie  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  So 
also  was  this  beautiful  hymn,  "Behold, 
God  the  Lord  Pass  By." 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speaker. 
We  are  in  connection  with  many  of  the 
western  states  by  direct  wire  this  morn- 
ing, during  the  first  hour  especially. 
Brother  Richards  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends,  I  assure  you  that  I  appear  be- 
fore this  vast  audience  without  self- 
assurance,  and  with  deep  humility,  and 
with  an  earnest  prayer  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  me  and  you  with  a  bond  of 
sympathetic  understanding. 

Some  time  ago  I  heard  over  the  radio 
a  minister  begin  his  address  with  the 
following  question:  "Can  a  man  be  a 
Christian  without  belonging  to  a  Chris- 
tian church?"  His  discussion  of  the 
subject  was  very  interesting.  If  I  cor- 
rectly interpreted  his  argument,  his 
answer  was,  "No — a  man  cannot  truly 
be  a  Christian  without  belonging  to  a 
Christian  church." 


I  do  not  propose  on  this  occasion 
either  to  support  or  oppose  the  conclu- 
sion reached  by  the  reverend  gentle- 
man. The  reasons  he  presented  seemed 
plausible  to  me,  and  I  have  no  doubt 
they  seemed  so  to  many  of  his  listeners. 
I  should  like  to  use  the  theme  of  his 
arresting  address  to  bring  forward  some 
thoughts  and  concepts  I  have  on  the 
nature  and  vitality  of  the  Christian 
religion. 

Just  what  is  Christianity,  and  what 
does  it  mean  to  be  a  Christian?  In  as- 
suming to  make  comment  on  these 
important  questions,  I  wish  it  to  be 
understood  that  I  make  no  pretention 
to  scholarship  or  academic  learning  on 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

the  subject  matter  involved.  I  believe 
that  academic  learning  is  not  itself 
essential  for  me  or  any  other  man  to 
reach  some  important  conclusions.  We 
are  told  that  things  of  the  Spirit  in 
divine  revelation  are  so  plain  and  simple 
to  those  of  faith  and  understanding  that 
he  "who  runs  may  read." 

Surely  most,  if  not  all,  Christians 
will  agree  that  any  adequate  concept 
of  the  Master  must  involve  a  spiritual 
interpretation.  When  the  Savior  ut- 
tered those  great  words,  "I  am  the  way, 
the  truth,  and  the  life,"  it  is  entirely 
clear  that  he  had  no  intention  of  de- 
fining merely  a  moral  code  of  which 
he  was  the  exemplar,  for  following  these 
words  he  declared  a  great  spiritual  truth 
which  lies  at  the  basis  of  the  whole 
Christian  faith  when  he  said:  ".  .  .  no 
man  cometh  unto  the  Father  but  by 
me."  (John  14:6.) 

Herein  lies  the  very  crux  of  the  ques- 
tion which  the  minister  proposed:  Can 
a  man  be  a  Christian  without  allying 
himself  with  a  Christian  church?  Is 
it  sufficient  that  one  adopt  the  Chris- 
tian virtues  in  his  life — be  unselfish, 
kind,  considerate,  long-suffering,  patient, 
gentle,  serving  his  fellow  man  after  the 
pattern  set  by  the  Savior?  Is  this  alone 
sufficient?  There  is  no  question  that 
a  man  so  living  commands  the  utmost 
respect  and  esteem  of  good  people. 
There  is  no  question  but  that  such  a  life 
is  filled  with  happiness  and  satisfac- 
tions— satisfactions  that  endure.  Is  all 
this  good  living  of  itself  enough? 

At  this  point  I  must  introduce  to  my 
friends — my  fellow  members  of  the 
Church  are  well  acquainted  with  it — a 
scripture  from  modern  revelation,  which 
brings  clarity  to  our  thinking.  These 
are  the  words  of  the  Lord  to  his 
Prophet:  "And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  he  that  receiveth  my  gospel  re- 
ceiveth  me;  and  he  that  receiveth  not 
my  gospel  receiveth  not  me."  (D&C 
39:5.) 

Now  if  it  is  essential  to  receive  the 
gospel  in  order  to  receive  the  Christ, 
what  follows?  To  answer  this  we  must 
understand  and  define  the  gospel.  Is 
the  gospel  itself  anything  more  than  the 
sum  total  of  the  Savior's  divine  attri- 
butes and  qualities?  I  think  that  all 
who  give  careful  consideration  to  the 
scriptures  and  the  works  of  the  Master 
will  agree  that  it  is.    Perhaps  the  most 


Second  Day 

famous  of  all  definitions  of  the  gospel 
is  that  given  by  Paul  when  he  said: 
"...  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel 
of  Christ:  for  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  to  every  one  that  be- 
lieveth;  .  .  ."  (Romans  1:16.) 

It  is  certainly  not  difficult  to  gather 
from  the  words,  "power  of  God  unto 
salvation,"  a  meaning  beyond  that  of 
a  moral  code  for  living  based  upon  the 
attributes  of  the  Savior.  The  gospel  as 
a  power  unto  salvation  must  embrace 
not  only  all  the  Christlike  character- 
istics of  living,  but  also  the  means  es- 
sential to  salvation.  These  indispensable 
means  or  essentials  for  salvation  have 
been  clearly  set  forth  by  the  Savior 
on  numerous  occasions  and  in  unmis- 
takable terms.  He  prescribed  ordinances 
and  proclaimed  their  indispensable  na- 
ture. He  declared  to  John  the  Baptist 
who  protested  his  application  for  bap- 
tism that  baptism  "becometh  us  to  ful- 
fil all  righteousness."  (Matt.  3:13-16.) 
Time  and  again  he  and  his  apostles 
after  him  exhorted  all  to  repentance 
and  baptism  and  to  faith,  firm  and 
abiding  faith  in  him  and  the  holy  gos- 
pel. 

And  Paul,  his  apostle,  certified  that 
there  was  but  one  authentic  gospel. 
These  are  his  words:  "But  though  we, 
or  an  angel  from  heaven,  preach  any 
other  gospel  unto  you  than  that  which 
we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him 
be  accursed."  (Gal.  1:8.) 

And  further  he  declares:  "But  I  certi- 
fy you,  brethren,  that  the  gospel  which 
was  preached  of  me  is  not  after  man. 

"For  I  neither  received  it  of  man, 
neither  was  I  taught  it,  but  by  the 
revelation  of  Jesus  Christ."  (Idem,  11- 
12.)  And  the  Christian  scriptures  are 
replete  with  the  injunction  that  the 
gospel  of  our  Lord  is  to  be  preached 
".  .  .  to  every  nation,  and  kindred,  and 
tongue,  and  people."  (Rev.  14:6.) 

If  there  should  be  any  uncertainty 
in  the  mind  of  anyone  professing  to  be 
Christian  as  to  the  essentiality  of  the 
gospel  and  its  ordinances,  it  seems  to 
me  it  should  be  completely  resolved  by 
the  final  charge  to  his  disciples,  given 
in  almost  the  closing  hours  of  his  mor- 
tal life,  when  he  uttered  these  por- 
tentous words:  "And  Jesus  came  and 
spake  unto  them,  saying,  All  power  is 
given  unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  na- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


53 


tions,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even 
unto  the  end  of  the  world.  Amen." 
(Matthew  28:18-20.) 

Now  if  gospel  ordinances  are  essen- 
tial they  must  be  administered,  and 
in  logical  sequence  it  follows  that  they 
must  be  administered  by  those  having 
a  delegation  of  authority  to  do  so.  So 
it  follows  also  that  the  delegation  of 
authority  must  come  from  one  source 
only — the  Author  of  the  gospel  plan,  the 
Christ,  who  derived  his  authority  from 
the  Eternal  Father.  Those  who  held 
and  exercised  such  authority  in  ancient 
Israel,  as  in  the  Meridian  of  Time, 
were  endowed  with  what  is  called 
"priesthood,"  being  a  divinely  bestowed 
commission  to  represent  the  Father  and 
the  Son  and  perform  the  ordinances 
of  the  gospel. 

This  divine  authority  is  a  special  kind 
of  power,  differing  widely  in  many  re- 
spects from  other  forms  of  delegated 
authority.  I  am  indebted  for  a  de- 
scription of  its  nature  and  constituency 
to  a  modern  revelation,  unique  so  far  as 
I  know  in  the  whole  field  of  theological 
learning.   This  is  the  revelation: 

".  .  .  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are 
inseparably  connected  with  the  powers 
of  heaven,  and  ...  the  powers  of  heaven 
cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled  only 
upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

"That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us, 
it  is  true;  but  when  we  undertake  to 
cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride, 
our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise  con- 
trol or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon 
the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in  any 
degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the 
heavens  withdraw  themselves;  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  is  grieved;  and  when  it  is 
withdrawn,  Amen  to  the  priesthood  or 
the  authority  of  that  man."  (D&C 
121:36-37.) 

Here  is  a  divine  endowment,  a  mar- 
velous gift  to  man,  which  may  be  lost 
by  failure  to  exercise  the  power  in  its 
true  meaning  and  spirit.  It  has  been 
lost,  my  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends, 
to  men  of  old  as  in  modern  times  by 
failure  both  to  understand  its  true  na- 
ture and  to  exercise  its  functions  in  a 


manner  compatible  with  the  spirit  and 
essence  of  the  power  itself. 

Listen  to  these  lovely  words  further 
denning  the  nature  of  this  holy  power. 
"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought 
to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priest- 
hood, only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suf- 
fering, by  gentleness  and  meekness,  and 
by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity 
towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household 
of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy 
thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence 
of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priest- 
hood shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the 
dews  from  heaven."  (Idem,  41-42,  45.) 

The  priesthood  which  the  revelations 
so  define  was  lost  to  those  following  his 
apostles  when  they  failed  to  preserve 
the  spirit  and  essentials  of  this  divine 
power,  just  as  the  Lord  said  in  the 
revelation  it  would  be:  "Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that 
man,"  (Idem,  37)  are  the  words  of  the 
Lord.  When  it  was  lost,  it  had  to  be 
restored,  and  it  had  to  be  restored  au- 
thentically. 

The  powers  of  the  priesthood  may 
never  be  assumed.  They  must  always 
be  conferred,  and  of  course  by  someone 
having  the  power  to  confer.  My  friends, 
I  wish  you  to  know — and  I  hope  you 
will  not  regard  it  as  presumptuous  in 
me  to  inform  you — that  the  powers 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood  have  been  con- 
ferred authentically  in  modern  times. 
Time  will  not  permit  me  to  detail  all 
the  circumstances  attendant  upon  this 
bestowal  of  divine  power,  but  I  give 
it  to  you  as  my  considered  judgment 
and  my  firm  conviction  that  there  is 
evidence — credible  and  reliable  evidence 
— to  support  and  verify  the  account  of 
such  bestowal  as  contained  in  the  rec- 
ords of  the  Restored  Church  of  our 
Lord.  And  in  addition  to  such  credible 
evidence  I  believe  that  an  open-minded 
investigator  will  discover  from  the  op- 
erations of  this  divine  power  results, 
benefits,  and  blessings  corroborative  of 
the  divine  authenticity  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  as  it  exists  today  in  this 
sorry  world  which  so  much  needs  it. 

Now  we  return  to  the  specific  theme 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

with  which  we  began — the  relationship 
of  a  Christian  to  a  church.  Perhaps  I 
had  better  begin  with  a  few  statements 
which  may  seem  rather  trite.  The  king- 
dom of  God  is  a  kingdom,  not  a  de- 
mocracy. The  king  is  the  author  and 
source  of  the  law,  the  judge,  and  the 
omnipotent  administrator.  He  and  he 
only  prescribes  the  rules  governing 
eligibility  for  membership  in  his  king- 
dom. I  grant  that  this  may  sound  arbi- 
trary and  dogmatic.  In  organizations 
formed  by  men  no  such  autocratic 
power  would  be  tolerated.  But  the 
kingdom  of  our  Lord  is  not  an  organ- 
ization formed  by  men.  Liberty  loving 
men  can  accept  such  omnipotent  power 
only  because  they  have  faith  and  com- 
plete confidence  in  the  beneficence  of 
such  power. 

What  then  is  the  standing  of  a  so- 
called  Christian  with  reference  to  the 
kingdom  of  God?  Is  he  rightly  classi- 
fied as  Christian  unless  he  has  taken 
the  steps  necessary  to  receive  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  and  enter  into  his  kingdom? 
I  believe,  my  friends,  that  a  careful 
survey  of  all  pertinent  scriptures,  as  well 
as  the  whole  history  of  Christ's  work 
among  men,  will  demonstrate  that  only 
by  the  complete  acceptance  of  the 
Christ  as  our  Lord,  and  subscribing  to 
all  the  conditions  and  requirements  of 
his  holy  gospel,  including  its  sacred 
ordinances  governing  induction  into  his 
kingdom,  can  a  man  fully  justify  a 
claim  to  the  honorable  distinction  of 
being  a  Christian.  So  it  seems  to  me 
that  the  crucial  question  is  not  so  much 
whether  a  man  must  belong  to  a  church 
to  be  a  Christian,  but  whether  he  has 
prepared  himself  and  taken  the  neces- 
sary steps  to  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God. 

It  would  seem  beyond  question  that 
there  could  not  be  more  than  one  king- 
dom of  the  Lord.  So  the  concern  of  all 
who  seek  Christian  salvation  must  be: 
Where  is  that  kingdom?  Where  is  it 
set  up  in  the  earth  that  men  may  come 
to  it  and  receive  its  transcendent  bless- 
ings? This  is  a  delicate  question 
because  the  feelings  of  people  about  re- 
ligion are  deep  and  sensitive.  No  one 
likes  to  offend.  I  assure  you  I  do  not, 
but  I  would  be  untrue  to  my  calling  if 
I  did  not  undertake  to  the  best  of  my 
ability  to  give  to  all  men  the  revelations 
of  the  Lord  about  this  question:  Where 


Second  Day 

is  the  kingdom  of  God  set  up  in  the 
earth? 

First  I  must  take  you  back  to  an  an- 
cient prophecy  with  which  many  are 
familiar.  You  will  remember  that  when 
Daniel  was  asked  to  interpret  the  king's 
dream  of  the  great  image  whose  head 
was  of  gold,  whose  breast  and  arms 
were  of  silver,  whose  belly  and  thighs 
were  of  brass,  with  legs  of  iron  and 
feet  of  clay,  he  uttered  these  portentous 
words: 

"Thou  sawest  till  that  a  stone  was 
cut  out  without  hands,  which  smote  the 
image  upon  his  feet  that  were  of  iron 
and  clay,  and  brake  them  to  pieces. 

"Then  was  the  iron,  the  clay,  the 
brass,  the  silver,  and  the  gold,  broken 
to  pieces  together,  and  became  like  the 
chaff  of  the  summer  threshingfloors; 
and  the  wind  carried  them  away.  .  .  ." 
(Dan.  2:34-35.) 

Then  follows  a  description  of  the 
kingdoms  represented  by  parts  of  the 
image  which  the  king  saw,  and  finally, 
following  a  description  of  the  kingdoms 
of  the  world,  these  words: 

"And  in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall 
the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom, 
which  shall  never  be  destroyed:  and  the 
kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other 
people,  but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and 
consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it 
shall  stand  for  ever."  (Idem  44.) 

This  and  other  prophecies  of  ancient 
days  predict  with  certainty  the  setting 
up  of  a  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth. 
In  the  mind  and  heart  of  the  prophets 
no  mere  mystical  kingdom  is  predicted, 
but  an  actual  institutional  power  which 
shall  not  only  have  sway  among  men, 
but  among  the  kingdoms  and  estab- 
lishments of  the  world. 

In  a  later  day,  after  the  Savior  had 
completed  his  ministry  on  the  earth, 
to  his  beloved  apostle,  John,  came 
the  following  revelation: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters."  (Rev. 
14:6-7.) 

It  is  true  that  times  are  not  set  in 


- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


55 


these  revelations  for  the  fulfilment  of 
the  prophecies  therein  contained,  but 
all  will  agree  that  they  contemplated  a 
time  of  fulfilment.  That  time  came,  my 
friends,  more  than  a  century  ago  in  the 
free  land  of  America  with  guarantees 
of  liberty  sufficient  to  protect  men  in 
the  free  expression  of  religious  convic- 
tions. I  think  in  no  other  land  at  the 
time  of  fulfilment  could  the  great  spirit- 
ual experiences  lying  at  the  foundation 
of  a  great  cause  have  been  tolerated 
sufficiently  to  come  to  fruition. 

In  this  land  of  liberty  fulfilment 
came.  The  predictions  of  old  came  to 
pass.  The  prophets  were  vindicated. 
Through  the  instrumentality  of  an  in- 
telligent, unsophisticated  young  man  of 
great  faith,  through  men  of  humility, 
the  Lord's  kingdom  was  set  up  in  the 
earth,  his  own  true  Church  established 
with  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the  gos- 
pel, and  with  the  same  organization  that 
the  Christ  himself  gave  to  men  when 
he  ministered  in  flesh  among  them. 

I  hope  you  will  realize,  my  friends, 
that  it  is  impossible  in  this  short  period 
of  time  to  present  in  any  detail  and 
with  any  sufficient  measure  of  ade- 
quacy the  circumstances  which  justify 
the  statement  which  I  have  made  in 
your  hearing.  All  I  can  do  in  these 
few  minutes  is  to  give  you  assurance 
that  proof  is  available,  proof  not  only 
for  mental  assurance  but  soul  convic- 
tion as  well,  which  in  my  humble 
judgment  is  sufficient  to  satisfy  the 
searcher  after  the  truth. 

Therefore,  if  you  would  be  truly 
Christian,  if  you  would  be  classified  as 
a  disciple  of  our  dear  Savior,  I  hold  out 
to  you  the  one  sure  way  of  achieving 
that  great  distinction.  Come  into  his 
kingdom  through  the  door  which  is 
open  to  all  who  will  abide  his  law  and 
his  gospel.  Come  to  participate  in 
blessings  and  high  privileges  which 
surpass  even  the  vision  of  your  highest 
hopes  and  ambitions. 

I  have  one  more  thought  to  give  you, 
fearing  that  some  may  appraise  my  re- 
marks as  too  fanatical  and  visionary.  I 
remember  years  ago  reading  a  book 
written  by  Walter  Lippman,  who  I 
think  has  the  reputation  of  being  a 
rather  keen  analyst  of  human  affairs. 
Writing  of  man  and  religion,  he  said 


in  substance  that  they  who  give  serious 
thought  to  religion  are  of  two  classes — 
the  humanists  and  the  authoritarians. 
Either  one  must  interpret  the  spiritual 
and  religious  in  terms  of  human  origin, 
attributes,  and  characteristics,  or  in 
terms  of  a  God  of  revelation,  power,  and 
authority. 

Well,  I  am  of  the  latter  class.  I  be- 
lieve in  God  implicitly.  I  believe  in 
the  divinity  of  our  Lord  and  Savior 
as  the  Son  of  God.  I  believe  that  the 
Lord  has  revealed  himself  to  men  in 
days  past,  and  that  he  has  not  denied 
to  his  children  of  later  generations  the 
blessing  and  benefit  of  his  revelations. 
I  am  convinced  beyond  the  shadow  of 
a  doubt  that  his  gospel  has  been  re- 
stored in  its  fulness  with  all  its  ordi- 
nances, and  the  powers  authentically  to 
administer  them  in  these  last  days.  I 
give  you  my  solemn  witness  that  his 
kingdom  is  set  up  in  the  earth,  and 
that  it  is  established  forever;  that  they 
whom  he  has  chosen  to  be  his  special 
representatives  from  period  to  period 
have  not  been  pretenders.  I  have  lived 
long  enough  to  have  known  personally 
four,  and  two  more  at  a  distance,  of  the 
nine  Presidents  who  have  presided  over 
the  Church  since  its  beginning,  and  I 
have  had  intimate  association  with  our 
leader  who  guides  the  Church  today 
for  more  than  fifty  years.  Of  my  own 
knowledge  I  testify  that  these  revered 
leaders  and  their  associates  in  the  Pre- 
siding Councils  of  the  Church,  acting 
under  the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood, have  administered  the  affairs  of 
the  kingdom  with  the  fear  of  God  in 
their  hearts,  fearing  to  offend  him  in 
any  degree,  and  seeking  to  serve  him 
and  his  children  with  humility  and  com- 
plete dedication. 

And  I  must  ask  all  of  you,  my  friends, 
not  to  forget  that  truth  is  not  deter- 
mined by  numbers,  nor  the  number  of 
its  adherents.  Christ  began  alone.  Then 
as  always,  as  the  old  saying  goes,  "God 
and  one  man  are  a  majority."  With 
him  we  are  safe. 

I  pray  for  spiritual  understanding  to 
come  to  all  our  dear  brethren  and  sisters 
in  this  world,  that  men  may  know  in 
their  hearts  what  it  truly  means  to  be 
a  Christian,  a  disciple  of  Christ.  The 
Lord  bless  us  all,  I  ask  humbly  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  We  hope  that  all  the 
television  sets  and  radios  that  were 
tuned  in  along  the  West  Coast,  in  the 


Second  Day 

Northwest  and  throughout  the  nation, 
heard  this  wonderful  address. 

And  now  while  we  are  all  in  connec- 
tion one  with  another,  we  shall  hear 
Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  who  presided 
over  the  California  Mission  until  re- 
cently, and  is  now  one  of  the  Assistants 
to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  con- 
ference time  is  always  a  thrilling  time 
as  the  Saints  assemble  from  all  over 
the  world  here  at  Church  headquarters. 
Friends  warmly  greet  each  other  as 
friendships  are  renewed.  Former  mis- 
sionaries meet  in  reunion  and  recall  the 
soul-satisfying  experiences  they  enjoyed 
while  in  the  service  of  the  Lord. 

I  always  approach  this  historic  Tab- 
ernacle with  a  feeling  of  reverence  and 
awe  when  I  consider  that  the  Saints 
have  been  coming  here  for  ninety-one 
and  one-half  years  to  hear  the  word  of 
the  Lord  and  receive  inspiration  from 
their  appointed  leaders.  The  building 
of  the  Tabernacle  being  completed,  the 
first  conference  was  held  here  in  Octo- 
ber of  the  year  1867. 

We  gain  strength  from  each  other, 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  am  confi- 
dent that  the  Brethren  who  stand  in  this 
pulpit  feel  the  strength  of  your  prayers 
and  the  inspiration  that  you  bring  with 
you. 

Many  years  ago  I  copied  an  inscrip- 
tion appearing  above  one  of  the 
entrances  to  the  Union  Depot  in  Wash- 
ington, D.C.,  which  reads: 

"He  that  would  bring  home  the  wealth 
of  the  Indies  must  carry  the  wealth  of 
the  Indies  with  him;  so  it  is  in  travel- 
ing, a  man  must  carry  knowledge  with 
him  if  he  would  bring  home  knowl- 
edge." 

That  same  principle  is  true  today. 
If  we  would  carry  spirituality  from  this 
conference,  we  must  have  brought  a 
spirit  of  spirituality  with  us. 

Springtime  is  a  glorious  time  of  the 
year  as  new  life  begins  to  stir  and  the 
earth  seems  to  awaken  from  its  long 
winter  nap.  An  ancient  biblical  proph- 
et has  exclaimed: 


"For,  lo,  the  winter  is  past,  the  rain 
is  over  and  gone; 

"The  flowers  appear  on  the  earth; 
the  time  of  the  singing  of  birds  is  come, 
and  the  voice  of  the  turtle  [meaning 
the  turtle  dove]  is  heard  in  our  land." 
(Song  of  Sol.  2:11-12.) 

This  awakening  is  reminiscent  of  the 
death  and  the  resurrection  of  the  Savior, 
and  we  can  appropriately  dwell  on  the 
great  debt  of  gratitude  that  we  owe  him 
for  his  atoning  sacrifice. 

It  has  been  said  that,  "while  gratitude 
may  be  one  of  the  least  of  the  virtues, 
ingratitude  is  one  of  the  greatest  of  the 
vices." 

Selfishness,  greed,  and  indifference 
are  by-products  of  ingratitude.  A  classic 
example  of  ingratitude  occurred  during 
the  ministry  of  the  Savior  while  here 
upon  the  earth.  Luke  records  the  event 
in  these  words: 

"And  it  came  to  pass,  as  he  [Jesus] 
went  to  Jerusalem,  that  he  passed 
through  the  midst  of  Samaria  and  Gali- 
lee. 

"And  as  he  entered  into  a  certain 
village,  there  met  him  ten  men  that  were 
lepers,  which  stood  afar  off: 

"And  they  lifted  up  their  voices,  and 
said,  Jesus,  Master,  have  mercy  on  us. 

"And  when  he  saw  them,  he  said 
unto  them,  Go  shew  yourselves  unto  the 
priests.  And  it  came  to  pass,  that,  as 
they  went,  they  were  cleansed. 

"And  one  of  them,  when  he  saw  that 
he  was  healed,  turned  back,  and  with 
a  loud  voice  glorified  God, 

"And  fell  down  on  his  face  at  his 
feet,  giving  him  thanks:  and  he  was  a 
Samaritan. 

"And  Jesus  answering  said,  Were 
there  not  ten  cleansed?  but  where  are 
the  nine? 


ELDER  HENi 

"There  are  not  found  that  returned 
to  give  glory  to  God,  save  this  stranger. 

"And  he  said  unto  him,  Arise,  go  thy 
way:  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole." 
(Luke  17:11-19.) 

Gratitude,  brethren  and  sisters,  re- 
sults in  love,  unselfishness,  and  con- 
sideration for  others.  It  has  a  refining 
influence,  and  when  expressed,  can  be 
a  beautiful  thing.  A  recent  newspaper 
account  carried  an  interesting  incident: 

"The  District  of  Columbia  police 
auctioned  off  about  100  unclaimed  bi- 
cycles Friday.  'One  dollar,'  said  an 
eleven  year-old  boy  as  the  bidding 
opened  on  the  first  bike.  The  bidding, 
however,  went  much  higher.  'One 
dollar,'  the  boy  repeated  hopefully  each 
time  another  bike  came  up. 

"The  auctioneer,  who  has  been  auc- 
tioning stolen  or  lost  bikes  for  43  years, 
noticed  that  the  boy's  hopes  seemed  to 
soar  highest  whenever  a  racer  was  put 
up. 

"There  was  one  racer  left.  Then  the 
bidding  mounted  to  $8.00.  'Sold  to  thai 
boy  over  there  for  $9.00,'  said  the  auc- 
tioneer. He  took  $8.00  from  his  own 
pocket  and  asked  the  boy  for  his  dollar. 
The  youngster  turned  it  over — in  pen- 
nies, nickles,  dimes,  and  quarters — took 
his  bike  and  started  to  leave.  But  he 
went  only  a  few  feet.  Carefully  parking 
his  new  possession,  he  went  back,  grate- 
fully threw  his  arms  around  the  auc- 
tioneer's neck,  and  cried." 

President  Richards,  in  a  recent  talk 
at  Brigham  Young  University,  quoted 
this  beautiful  thought  expressed  by  Sir 
Isaac  Walton: 

"God  has  two  dwelling  places;  one 
in  heaven,  the  other  in  a  thankful  heart, 
which  O  Lord  grant  to  me." 

The  Lord  expects  us  to  receive  our 
blessings  with  a  grateful  heart.  Through 
a  modern  prophet  he  has  made  this 
promise: 

"And  he  who  receiveth  all  things  with 
thankfulness  shall  be  made  glorious; 
and  the  things  of  this  earth  shall  be 
added  unto  him,  even  an  hundred  fold, 
yea,  more."  (D&C  78:19.) 

Many  opportunities  are  constantly 
afforded  us  for  expressing  appreciation 
and  gratitude  for  our  numerous  bless- 
ings. 

Daily,  we  should  gather  our  families 
about  us  as  we  kneel  in  family  prayer. 


'  D.  TAYLOR  57 

Many  times  during  each  day  we  can 
profitably  pause  and  in  secret  prayer 
give  grateful  acknowledgment  for  the 
multitudinous  bounties  of  which  we 
are  recipients. 

On  the  first  Sunday  of  each  month  a 
fast  and  testimony  meeting  is  held  in 
each  one  of  the  wards  and  branches. 
Members  of  the  Church  are  encouraged 
to  rise  and  give  public  utterance  of 
their  gratitude  for  the  countless  bless- 
ings that  the  Lord  has  showered  upon 
them. 

An  excellent  way  of  showing  our  love 
for  our  Heavenly  Father  and  our  appre- 
ciation for  his  blessings  is  through  our 
righteous  actions  and  righteous  living. 

"If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  command- 
ments," said  the  Savior,  in  emphasizing 
this  principle.  (  John  14:15.) 

We  have  many  things  for  which  to  be 
grateful.  Among  them  is  the  privilege 
of  being  born  in  this  dispensation,  when 
the  gospel  has  been  restored  to  earth 
in  its  fulness  through  heavenly  mes- 
sengers. And  this  gospel  is  a  plan,  a 
plan  of  salvation,  and  it  can  be  a  guide 
and  a  blueprint  which,  if  followed,  can 
lead  us  back  once  again  into  God's 
presence. 

Certainly  we  should  recall  with  grati- 
tude the  mission  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  the  Christ,  and  his  willingness  to 
give  his  life  that  we  might  have  salva- 
tion and  the  opportunity  of  obtaining 
exaltation. 

We  can  be  properly  grateful  for  the 
life  of  the  first  prophet  in  these  latter 
days,  Joseph  Smith,  and  give  praise  to 
this  "man  who  communed  with  Jeho- 
vah," for  it  was  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  that  the  gospel  was  restored  and 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  established. 

We  can  give  thanks  for  the  Presi- 
dents who  have  succeeded  Joseph  Smith, 
and  especially  for  our  present-day  Presi- 
dent. As  we  consider  President  McKay's 
kindness,  goodness,  and  greatness,  we 
can  sing  with  all  our  hearts,  "We  thank 
thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet  to  guide  us 
in  these  latter  days." 

Finally,  I  am  deeply  grateful  for  the 
knowledge  that  I  am  truly  a  spiritual 
son  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  created  in 
his  image  and  after  his  own  likeness, 
and  although  temporarily  deprived  of 
the  privilege  of  dwelling  in  his  presence, 


58 

Sunday,  April  5 

I  can  still  communicate  with  him 
through  the  medium  of  prayer  and  can 
receive  strength,  comfort,  and  guidance. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  that  we  may 
have  grateful  hearts,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Those  who  have  the  arrangement  of 
the  radio  and  television  connections  this 
morning  have  sent  me  a  note  here  "that 
the  speaker  succeeding  Brother  Richards 
should  close  at  10:57."  It  is  10:55, 
Brother  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

sing,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a 
Prophet,"  after  which  Elder  S.  Dilworth 
Young  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
will  speak  to  us.  Elder  Condie  will 
lead  us. 


The  congregation  and  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Sterling 
W.  Sill. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  presume  that  listening  in  are  a 
large  number  of  those  of  us  who  are 
of  an  age  where  they  can  say  "teen" 
after  the  number  of  years  since  they 
have  been  born,  and  I  would  direct 
what  I  have  to  say  to  them — thirteen, 
fourteen,  sixteen,  eighteen. 

I  should  like  to  read  briefly  two 
stories.    The  first  is  told  by  Luke. 

"And  in  the  sixth  month  the  angel 
Gabriel  was  sent  from  God  unto  a  city 
of  Galilee,  named  Nazareth, 

"To  a  virgin  espoused  to  a  man 
whose  name  was  Joseph,  of  the  house 
of  David;  and  the  virgin's  name  was 
Mary. 

"And  the  angel  came  in  unto  her, 
and  said,  Hail,  thou  that  art  highly 
favoured,  the  Lord  is  with  thee:  blessed 
art  thou  among  women. 

"And  when  she  saw  him,  she  was 
troubled  at  his  saying,  and  cast  in  her 
mind  what  manner  of  salutation  this 
should  be. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  her,  Fear 
not,  Mary:  for  thou  hast  found  favour 
with  God. 

"And,  behold,  thou  shalt  conceive  in 
thy  womb,  and  bring  forth  a  son,  and 
shalt  call  his  name  Jesus. 

"He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be 
called  the  Son  of  the  Highest:  and  the 
Lord  God  shall  give  unto  him  the 
throne  of  his  father  David: 

"And  he  shall  reign  over  the  house  of 


Jacob  for  ever;  and  of  his  kingdom  there 
shall  be  no  end. 

"Then  said  Mary  unto  the  angel, 
How  shall  this  be,  seeing  I  know  not  a 
man? 

"And  the  angel  answered  and  said 
unto  her,  The  Holy  Ghost  shall  come 
upon  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest 
shall  overshadow  thee:  therefore  also 
that  holy  thing  which  shall  be  born  of 
thee  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  God." 
(Luke  1:26-35.) 

I  should  like  also  to  state  that  in 
the  account  given  in  Matthew,  Joseph 
was  minded  to  put  her  away  privily 
when  he  discovered  she  was  expecting, 
and  an  angel  came  to  him  and  told 
him  not  to  do  it,  whereupon  he  assumed 
the  place  that  you  know  about  in 
history. 

The  second  story  is  one  told  by 
Joseph  Smith: 

"After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where 
I  had  previously  designed  to  go,  having 
looked  around  me,  and  finding  myself 
alone,  I  kneeled  down  and  began  to 
offer  up  the  desire  of  my  heart  to  God. 
I  had  scarcely  done  so,  when  imme- 
diately I  was  seized  upon  by  some  power 
which  entirely  overcame  me,  and  had 
such  astonishing  influence  over  me  as 
to  bind  my  tongue  so  that  I  could  not 
speak.  Thick  darkness  gathered  around 
me,  and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  as 
if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden  destruction. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


59 


"But,  exerting  all  my  powers  to  call 
upon  God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power 
of  this  enemy  which  had  seized  upon 
me,  and  at  the  very  moment  when  I 
was  ready  to  sink  into  despair  and 
abandon  myself  to  destruction — not  to 
an  imaginary  ruin,  but  to  the  power  of 
some  actual  being  from  the  unseen 
world,  who  had  such  marvelous  power 
as  I  had  never  before  felt  in  any  being — 
just  at  this  moment  of  great  alarm,  I 
saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my 
head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell 
upon  me. 

"It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found 
myself  delivered  from  the  enemy  which 
held  me  bound.  When  the  light  rested 
upon  me  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose 
brightness  and  glory  defy  all  descrip- 
tion, standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One 
of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by 
name  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Himl" 
(Joseph  Smith  2:15-17.) 

These  two  accounts  have  two  things 
in  common — both  are  of  supernatural 
events;  both  are  true.  One  tells  of  a 
miraculous  conception,  the  other  of  a 
miraculous  restoration.  The  one  con- 
firms the  fact  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
literally  the  Son  of  God;  the  other  that 
the  Father  and  the  Son  are  indeed  one 
in  purpose,  although  separate  individual 
Personages. 

Now,  young  folks,  in  the  course  of 
your  growing  up  you  will  associate  with 
teachers  who  will  try  to  persuade  you 
that  the  first  account  could  not  have 
happened,  and  that  the  second  was  an 
hallucination  of  an  epileptic.  But  you 
will  also  be  surprised  at  the  wide  range 
of  people  of  all  classes  of  learning  who 
not  only  take  comfort  from  these  stories 
but  also  declare  them  to  be  true.  During 
the  129  years  of  the  Church  on  earth, 
many  educated  people  have  branded  its 
teachings  as  the  rantings  of  an  igno- 
ramus. Scientists  have  laughed  to  scorn 
its  explanations,  and  evil  people  have 
declared  it  to  be  deceitful  and  adulter- 
ous. Yet  educated  men  have  found  its 
claims  to  be  true  and  have  been  en- 
larged by  them.  Scientists  have  ac- 
cepted it  without  explaining  it  and  have 
found  comfort  in  it,  and  evil  men  have 
repented  and  have  found  peace  within 
its  fold. 


Any  young  person  can  take  his  choice 
as  to  which  kind  of  belief  he  wants  to 
accept.  You  will  be  exposed  to  both 
kinds.  You  may  have  a  sure  way  of 
knowing.  President  Richards  briefly 
referred  to  it.  You  can  know  by  the 
whispering  of  the  Spirit  that  the  state- 
ments I  have  read  to  you  this  morning 
are  true,  and  that  all  of  the  things 
which  have  happened  supernaturally 
in  this  Church  have  actually  happened. 

Some  of  you  may  have  had  great  ad- 
ventures in  the  hills,  and  some  of  you 
may  have  had  them  on  the  water  and 
the  sea,  some  have  had  them  or  will 
have  them  in  the  air,  but  I  can  testify 
to  you  that  there  will  be  none  of  you 
have  any  adventure  greater,  more  thrill- 
ing, and  more  joyful  than  finding  out 
how  to  interpret  the  Spirit  which  comes 
into  you  bearing  testimony  of  the  truth. 
Young  folks  have  to  learn  how,  so  do 
we  older  folks.  We  have  to  find  out 
the  technique  by  which  the  Spirit 
whispers  in  our  hearts.  We  have  to 
learn  to  hear  it  and  to  understand  it 
and  to  know  when  we  have  it,  and  that 
sometimes  takes  a  long  time. 

But  no  matter  what  your  age,  you  do 
not  need  to  wait  until  you  are  old  to 
know.  Any  child,  age  eight,  having 
been  baptized  and  having  received  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  is  a  fit  candi- 
date to  have  the  Holy  Ghost  bear  its 
imprint  upon  him  as  to  the  truth  of 
the  teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  As  he 
grows  and  has  that  imprint  upon  him, 
he  will  have  joy  and  satisfaction  and 
peace  and  happiness  beyond  anything 
that  can  be  described  with  words. 

So  I  would  say  to  the  young  folks  of 
the  Church,  some  of  whom  come  to 
me  confused,  if  you  will  ask,  not  doubt- 
ing that  you  can  have  an  answer,  the 
answer  will  come  in  the  whispering. 
Then  you  must  learn  to  interpret  the 
whispering.  At  first  it  likely  will  come 
as  something  akin  to  a  feeling,  although 
not  a  feeling.  There  will  finally  come 
into  your  minds  the  words  expressive 
of  the  feeling,  and  those  words  properly 
interpreted  will  be  the  whispering  of 
the  Spirit.  You  may  know  as  I  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  was 
born  of  a  virgin,  that  his  Father  was 
the  Eternal  God,  and  that  he  was 
chosen  in  this  last  day  to  re-establish 


60 

Sunday,  April  5 

his  work,  after  having  his  prophets 
prophesy  of  it,  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  The  account  of  its  be- 
ginnings I  have  read  to  you,  and  that 
testimony  is  true,  and  this  Church  now, 
with  its  million  and  a  half  people, 
stands  as  a  witness.  Each  one  of  us  in 
this  audience  knows  for  himself,  not 
because  of  what  somebody  says,  but 
in  his  own  way  and  for  himself,  by 
the  whispering  of  the  Spirit,  that  indeed 
it  is  true. 

I  bear  you  that  testimony  and  add  to 
it  that  I  know  that  President  McKay 
is  a  prophet  of  the  Living  God,  a  seer, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

and  a  revelator,  as  are  his  counselors, 
and  the  twelve,  and  the  patriarch,  and 
I  uphold  them  as  such.  I  commend 
them  to  you  as  being  what  I  have  wit- 
nessed. I  ask  a  blessing  upon  us  all, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


After  the  Last  Supper,  Jesus  was  giv- 
ing some  final  instructions  to  his 
disciples.  He  was  trying  to  prepare 
them  for  the  heavy  load  of  responsi- 
bility which  would  soon  rest  upon  them. 
He  talked  with  them  a  great  deal  about 
his  own  mission,  his  association  with 
his  Father  and  what  their  relationship 
with  God  ought  to  be.  During  the 
discussion  Philip  said  to  Jesus,  ".  .  . 
Lord,  shew  us  the  Father,  and  it  suf- 
ficeth  us."  (John  14:8.) 

This  question  points  out  what  is 
probably  the  greatest  responsibility  of 
our  lives — not  only  to  know  God  but 
also  to  understand  the  plan  of  the  gospel 
and  to  live  in  harmony  therewith.  The 
proper  relationship  between  men  and 
God  gives  life  its  purpose.  It  doesn't 
matter  very  much  whether  we  ride  in 
an  oxcart  or  on  an  interplanetary  mis- 
sile if  our  journey  is  purposeless. 

Think  how  important  it  is  that  we 
understand  that  Jesus  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  that  he  expressed  the  di- 
vine will  to  men,  that  he  was  literally 
begotten  of  the  Father.  Jesus  tried  to 
help  his  disciples  to  understand  the 
Father  by  understanding  the  Son  who 
was  in  the  express  image  of  his  Father's 
person.  (Heb.  1:3.)  To  Philip  he  said, 
".  .  .  he  that  hath  seen  me  hath  seen 
the  Father;  .  .  ."  (John  14:9.)  As  it 
was  with  the  disciples,  so  it  is  with  us. 
Our  relationship  to  God  involves  the 
greatest  rewards  and  the  most  im- 
portant responsibilities  that  ever  come  to 


men  and  women  in  mortal  life,  and 
it  is  perfectly  natural  and  proper  that 
we  should  join  Philip  in  his  request 
to  ".  .  .  shew  us  the  Father."  (Idem,  8.) 

That  is,  the  greatest  need  of  man  is 
for  God.  God  created  us.  It  is  his 
Spirit  that  ".  .  .  giveth  light  to  every 
man  that  cometh  into  the  world;  .  .  ." 
(D&C  84:46.)  Every  day  he  sends  us 
food,  energy  and  vitality  from  the  sun. 
That  is,  our  world  is  not  an  independent 
world.  If  the  sun's  rays  were  shut  off 
for  a  very  short  time  no  life  could  sur- 
vive upon  this  earth.  Not  only  does 
God  literally  give  us  each  day  our  daily 
bread,  but  he  is  also  responsible  for 
our  mental  and  spiritual  vitality.  (Ibid., 
88.) 

It  is  because  our  greatest  need  is  for 
God  that  the  first  and  most  important 
commandment  centers  in  our  maintain- 
ing a  proper  relationship  to  him.  And 
the  most  serious  sins  are  our  abuses  of 
that  relationship,  wherein  we  turn  away 
from  God.  Satan  sinned  in  the  pres- 
ence of  God,  which  sets  the  high  water 
mark  for  sin. 

Occasionally  we  ought  to  ask  our- 
selves, how  effective  we  are — individual- 
ly and  collectively — in  this  all-important 
relationship.  We  may  be  able  to  get 
a  clue  from  some  interesting  statistics 
recently  broadcast  over  the  radio.  A 
survey  indicated  that  ninety-five  percent 
of  all  of  the  people  in  America  claim  to 
believe  in  God.  Eighty  percent  of  those 
surveyed  said  they  accepted  the  Bible 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


61 


as  the  authoritative  word  of  God.  Each 
year  in  America  we  spend  over  a  hun- 
dred million  dollars  for  Bibles.  A  bigger 
percentage  of  Americans  presently  claim 
membership  in  some  Christian  church 
than  ever  before  in  our  history.  Yet 
paralleling  this  great  upsurge  in  religion 
is  a  corresponding  upsurge  in  crime, 
delinquency,  and  actual  spiritual  illiter- 
acy. This  survey  indicated  that  only 
thirty-five  percent  of  all  of  those  ques- 
tioned even  knew  the  names  of  the 
four  Gospels.  And  over  one-half  said 
that  religion  played  no  significant  part 
in  their  business  or  political  affairs. 

Last  summer  in  Madison  Square 
Garden,  Billy  Graham  indicated  one  of 
our  problems  when  he  said,  "For  all  of 
our  talk  about  religion  there  is  tragical- 
ly little  actual  personal  Christian  com- 
mitment in  America  today."  It  is  very 
easy  for  us  to  get  disturbed  when  we 
hear  about  the  Russians  closing  up  their 
churches  or  trying  to  banish  God  from 
their  country  and  the  lives  of  their 
people.  But  what  Russia  has  done  offi- 
cially millions  of  people  are  doing  pri- 
vately and  individually.  That  is,  what 
does  it  profit  that  our  churches  are  open 
if  we  are  not  in  them,  or  even  if  we 
spend  a  billion  dollars  for  Bibles  that 
we  do  not  read?  One  thing  is  sure, 
and  that  is  that  not  one  of  us  can 
afford  to  fail  to  observe  properly  the 
first  and  most  important  commandment. 
Our  eternal  lives  depend  upon  it. 

It  should  stimulate  us  to  remember 
that  when  Jesus  was  born  in  Bethlehem 
there  was  no  room  found  for  him  in 
the  inn.  But  there  is  a  strange  fore- 
boding in  this  thought.  "No  room"  was 
the  Master's  experience  throughout  his 
life.  There  was  "no  room"  for  his  doc- 
trines, "no  room"  for  the  spirit  of  his 
mission.  We  must  not  allow  history  to 
repeat  itself  because  we  make  no  room 
in  our  country  or  our  lives  for  the 
Savior  of  the  world.  Nor  have  we  dis- 
charged our  obligation  to  God  and  our 
own  souls  by  thoughtlessly  saying,  "We 
believe  in  God,"  and  then  let  it  go  at 
that,  without  understanding  either  God 
or  the  specific  nature  of  our  responsi- 
bility to  him. 

Teachers  of  religion  who  "call  them- 
selves" to  the  ministry  and  then  "teach 
their  own  doctrines"  must  bear  an  aw- 
ful share  of  the  responsibility  for  our 


unfortunate  world  situation.  Even 
Jesus  did  not  teach  his  own  doctrine. 
He  said,  ".  .  .  My  doctrine  is  not  mine, 
but  his  that  sent  me."  (John  7:16.) 
How  much  confusion  and  actual  harm 
would  be  avoided  if  every  religious 
teacher  would  follow  the  example  of 
"the  great  Teacher." 

Recently  I  read  a  book  written  by  a 
popular  minister,  in  which  he  attempted 
to  analyze  the  great  Christian  doctrines 
as  taught  in  the  Bible,  and  then  he  made 
comparisons  with  some  of  the  doctrines 
currently  being  taught. 

For  example,  he  said  that  the  God  of 
the  Bible  is  a  personal  God — there  can 
be  no  question  about  that.  But  he 
said,  "We  don't  believe  that  any  more." 
And  then  to  substantiate  his  statement 
he  quoted  answers  to  direct  questions 
about  what  some  prominent  ministers 
had  said  about  their  conception  of  God. 
One  minister  said,  "No  one  can  possibly 
know  about  God.  He  is  absolutely  im- 
measurable, undiscoverable  and  indis- 
cernible. He  is  not  limited  to  boundaries 
and  we  can  be  sure  that  he  has  no 
body  or  shape."  Another  minister  said 
that  "God  is  an  eternal  principle."  An- 
other said  that  God  is  "a  giant  electronic 
brain."  Another  said  that  God  is  "a 
mobile,  cosmic  ether."  This  minister 
pointed  out  how  completely  contrary 
these  concepts  were  to  those  of  the  scrip- 
tures. He  said,  "Imagine  Jesus  praying 
to  a  mobile,  cosmic  ether.  Jesus 
prayed — '.  .  .  Our  Father  which  art  in 
heaven.  .  .  .'  (Matt.  6:9.)  He  said  to 
Mary,  '.  .  .  go  to  my  brethren,  and  say 
unto  them,  I  ascend  unto  my  Father, 
and  your  Father;  and  to  my  God,  and 
to  your  God.'"  (John  20:17.)  That 
statement  must  be  perfectly  clear  to 
everyone.  And  yet  this  great  minister 
said,  "We  don't  believe  that  any  more." 

Then  he  discussed  the  resurrection. 
He  said  that  those  who  wrote  the  Bible 
believed  in  a  literal  bodily  resurrection. 
There  could  be  no  question  about 
that.  The  body  of  Jesus  came  out  of 
the  tomb  and  ministered  among  men 
for  forty  days.  He  said  to  Thomas, 
".  .  .  Reach  hither  thy  finger,  and  be- 
hold my  hands;  and  reach  hither  thy 
hand,  and  thrust  it  into  my  side:  and 
be  not  faithless,  but  believing."  (Idem, 
27.)  Then  he  read  the  paragraph  in 
which  Matthew  said,  ".  .  .  And  the 


62 

Sunday,  April  5 

graves  were  opened;  and  many  of  the 
bodies  of  the  saints  which  slept  arose, 
"And  came  out  of  their  graves  after 
his  resurrection,  and  went  into  the  holy 
city,  and  appeared  unto  many."  (Matt. 
27:52-53.)  But  this  great  minister  also 
disposed  of  this  particular  doctrine  by 
saying,  "We  don't  believe  that  any 
more." 

There  are  those  who  through  their 
teachings  would  deprive  God  of  his 
body,  deny  his  personality,  take  away 
his  senses,  faculties,  and  feelings.  They 
would  leave  him  sexless,  thoughtless, 
and  helpless,  without  boundaries,  shape, 
identity,  or  location.  Some  indulge  the 
hopeless  absurdity  of  merging  three  into 
one,  and  then  in  some  mysterious,  in- 
credible way,  expanding  the  result  to 
fill  the  immensity  of  space. 

These  false  doctrines  have  contributed 
greatly  to  the  indifference  and  unbelief 
of  our  day.  That  is,  much  of  the  cur- 
rent disbelief  in  God  is  not  a  denial  of 
God  but  a  denial  of  the  false  and  un- 
believable ideas  about  God.  In  the 
light  of  this  tragic  situation  the  impor- 
tance of  Philip's  plea  for  understanding 
God  takes  on  an  urgent  and  compelling 
significance.  What  more  important 
request  could  our  generation  make  than 
a  united,  sincere,  wholehearted  prayer 
saying,  "Show  us  the  Father." 

The  work  and  message  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
centered  in  the  literal  physical  fulfil- 
ment of  Philip's  request  in  our  own  day. 
In  the  early  spring  of  1820,  in  answer 
to  this  important  need,  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  reappeared 
upon  this  earth  to  re-establish  among 
men  a  belief  in  the  God  of  Genesis, 
a  belief  in  the  God  taught  by  Jesus, 
a  belief  in  the  God  of  the  Bible,  a  belief 
in  the  Father  of  spirits  whose  will  is 
that  not  one  of  his  children  should 
perish.  (Matt.  18:14.)  The  voice  of  the 
Father  was  heard  at  the  baptism  of 
Jesus;  (ibid.,  3:17)  and  again  at  the 
transfiguration.  (Ibid.,  17:5.)  But  in 
our  own  day  he  has  manifest  himself 
with  a  complete  literalness  which  can- 
not be  mistaken,  misunderstood,  or  dis- 
regarded. In  speaking  about  this 
important  manifestation  the  Prophet 
Joseph  said: 

"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head  above  the  brightness  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

the  sun  which  descended  gradually  until 
it  fell  upon  me. 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me 
I  saw  two  Personages  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other,  'This  is  My  Be- 
loved Son.  Hear  Him!' "  (Joseph 
Smith  2:16-17.) 

In  the  midst  of  the  persecution  which 
followed,  the  Prophet  said: 

"...  I  had  actually  seen  a  light,  and 
in  the  midst  of  the  light  I  saw  two 
Personages  and  they  did  in  reality  speak 
to  me.  And  though  I  was  hated  and 
persecuted  for  saying  that  I  had  seen  a 
vision,  yet  it  was  true.  And  while  they 
were  persecuting  me,  reviling  me,  and 
speaking  all  manner  of  evil  against  me 
falsely  for  so  saying,  I  was  led  in  my 
heart  to  say:  Why  persecute  me  for  tell- 
ing the  truth?  I  have  actually  seen  a 
vision;  and  who  am  I  that  I  can  with- 
stand God?  Or  why  does  the  world 
think  to  make  me  deny  that  which  I 
have  actually  seen?  For  I  had  seen  a 
vision.  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew  that  God 
knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it;  neither 
dared  I  do  it."  (Idem,  2:25.) 

What  a  thrilling  message!  What  a 
tremendous  testimony!  How  eagerly  it 
should  be  welcomed  by  every  child  of 
God  as  a  solid  basis  for  his  faith.  During 
the  long  dark  night  brought  upon  the 
world  by  apostasy,  there  may  have  been 
room  for  many  doubts.  But  now  these 
doubts  could  be  dispelled.  There  was 
now  someone  in  the  world  who  had 
actually  seen  God  and  who  knew  for  a 
certainty,  not  only  that  he  lives,  but 
the  kind  of  Personage  that  he  is.  It  was 
now  possible  to  know  that  above  the 
dictators  and  above  chance  and  above 
circumstance,  there  is  God  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  to  whom  all  mankind  is  re- 
sponsible, and  from  whom  all  of  our 
blessings  come.  How  important  that 
everyone  should  investigate  and  learn 
the  truth.  If  one  should  err  in  believ- 
ing the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  be 
true,  he  could  not  possibly  be  the  loser 
by  the  mistake.  But  how  irreparable  is 
his  loss  who  should  err  in  supposing 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  be  false. 

Benjamin  Disraeli  once  said,  "The 
secret  of  success  in  life  is  to  be  ready 
for  success  when  it  comes."    How  un- 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


63 


fortunate  when  one  is  not  ready,  espe- 
cially when  the  matters  involved  are  so 
tremendously  all-important.  The  worst 
tragedy  of  the  last  two  thousand  years 
is  that  the  testimony  of  Jesus  concerning 
the  Father  and  himself  has  largely 
gone  unheeded.  That  tragedy  is  being 
repeated  in  our  day  in  that  so  many 
are  still  not  ready.  We  are  so  much 
involved  in  ourselves  that  we  tend  to 
crowd  God  out  of  our  lives. 

Life  in  this  world  is  not  man  centered 
— it  is  God  centered.  As  so  many  are 
doing  in  our  day,  the  prodigal  son 
squandered  his  inheritance  because  his 
world  was  centered  in  himself  rather 
than  in  God.  The  greatest  possible  ac- 
complishment of  our  world  is  to  know 
God,  and  to  believe  in  God,  and  to  obey 
God. 

Philip  said,  ".  .  .  shew  us  the  Father, 
and  it  sufficeth  us."  The  overwhelm- 
ing importance  of  that  plea  was  empha- 
sized by  the  Master  himself  when  on 
that  last  fateful  night  as  he  prayed  to 
his  Father  he  said,  "And  this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

How  tremendously  important  it  is, 
therefore,  that  both  of  these  great  Per- 
sonages have  reappeared  to  men  upon 
the  earth  in  our  own  day,  that  we  may 
know  for  ourselves. 

I  would  like  to  close  with  a  quota- 
tion of  one  of  the  most  important  utter- 
ances ever  made  in  the  world.  After 
Joseph  Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon  had 


received  an  informative  and  glorious 
heavenly  manifestation  at  Hiram,  Ohio, 
on  February  16,  1832,  an  account  of 
which  is  recorded  in  the  seventy-sixth 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
they  wrote  these  thrilling  lines: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
that  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is  the 
testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of 
him:  that  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Be- 
gotten of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and 
of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten 
sons  and  daughters  unto  God."  (D&C 
76:22-24.) 

To  this  I  would  like  to  add  my  own 
personal  testimony,  that  I  know  that 
God  lives  and  that  his  priesthood  and 
his  Church,  teaching  his  doctrines,  are 
now  upon  the  earth,  that  we  may  in 
very  deed  be  his  disciples.  May  God 
help  us  to  avail  ourselves  of  this  tre- 
mendous opportunity  I  pray  in  Jesus' 
name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve.  Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  will  now 
speak  to  us.  Our  concluding  speaker 
will  be  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  beloved  brothers 
and  sisters: 

I  always  need  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  when  I  am  called  to  this  position. 
I  could  hardly  proceed  without  the  as- 
surance of  those  blessings.  I  shall  be 
grateful  for  your  prayers,  your  patience, 
and  your  understanding.  After  much 
fasting  and  much  praying,  I  trust  that 
the  Lord  will  sustain  me.  We  do  be- 
lieve in  praying,  and  we  believe  in 
fasting,  and  I  testify  to  you  that  there- 
from comes  great  strength  to  us. 


I  am  sure  we  were  deeply  touched 
this  morning  by  this  wonderful  choir, 
both  at  the  broadcast  and  at  this  ses- 
sion. They  are  a  great  credit  to  us,  a 
great  credit  to  themselves  and  to  the 
Church.  Truly,  they  are  regarded  as 
wonderful  servants,  and  they  are  not 
alone  wonderful  singers,  but  they  are 
wonderful  people. 

Regarding  the  divinely  appointed  re- 
sponsibility of  parents,  the  sobering 
counsel  is  given  to  us  that  ".  .  .  they 
shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray, 
and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the  Lord." 


64 

Sunday,  April  5 

(D&C  68:28.)  These  and  many  other 
scriptures  make  it  crystal-clear  the 
heaven-imposed  responsibilities  of  teach- 
ing our  children  properly.  If  we  fail  in 
our  duty  toward  them,  we  are  weakening 
the  foundation  of  our  own  influence. 

Marriage  is  the  gateway  through 
which  a  man  or  woman  obtains  per- 
sonal experience  in  human  relationships. 
Parenthood  is  the  opportunity  for  put- 
ting that  experience  to  heavenly  and 
practical  use.  It  is  a  God-given  right 
for  parents  to  have  children  so  that  they 
can  give  them  intelligent,  mental,  moral, 
and  spiritual  training.  Parent  love  is 
beautiful,  but  parent  love  combined  with 
intelligent  discipline  is  the  force  that 
turns  children  into  great  characters. 
Misdirected  and  misguided  offspring  re- 
sult in  one  of  civilization's  appalling 
wastes  and  present-day  problems.  Good 
citizens  are  necessary  to  civilization, 
but  good  parents  are  obligatory  if 
civilization  is  to  continue. 

We  hear  very  little  nowadays  about 
the  strength  of  character  that  our  fore- 
fathers drilled  into  their  children.  In 
those  days,  a  boy  grew  up  with  the 
understanding  that  he  could  get  some- 
where in  this  world  through  hard  work, 
rather  than  looking  for  short-cuts. 
Promotion  was  considered  on  perform- 
ance, results,  ability,  and  talent.  Par- 
ents implanted  in  their  children  a  desire 
for  sound  knowledge  and  a  yearning 
for  excellence  and  a  willingness  for  hard 
work.  The  sense  of  personal  responsi- 
bility was  as  basic  as  love  itself. 

Somewhere  in  our  recent  past,  many 
of  us  have  adopted  the  idea  that  a 
father's  firm  influence  is  not  essential 
in  the  raising  of  children.  All  too  often 
father's  role  in  family  discipline  has 
been  dismissed  to,  "You  ask  your 
mother."  This  may  be  all  right  with 
daughters,  but  with  a  son,  it  is  an  in- 
vitation to  disaster.  A  boy  who  grows 
up  unable  to  look  to  his  father  for  guid- 
ance and  decision  and  help  will  not 
have  much  respect  for  authority  what- 
ever its  source. 

Ninety  percent  of  the  youngsters  who 
have  had  troubles  are  the  products  of 
homes  where  the  father's  influence  was 
lacking.  As  unattractive  as  the  task  may 
seem,  a  father  is  the  guiding  director 
of  the  family,  and  when  he  fails  in  his 
job,  there  can  be  only  chaos  and  trouble. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Should  a  father  surrender  to  his  wife 
his  own  position  as  head  of  the  house- 
hold, then  the  results  may  be  the  same. 

Faithful  parents  are  entitled  to  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord.  What  would 
we  do  as  parents  without  that  inspira- 
tion? But  sometimes  parents  do  not 
have  the  courage  to  follow  that  inspira- 
tion, and  they  yield,  when  they  should 
stand  firm. 

There  should  be  well-established 
rules  of  behavior  for  growing  boys  and 
girls.  The  word  "no"  is  now  practically 
obsolete.  Is  it  wrong  for  youngsters 
to  have  to  toe  the  line?  Discipline — 
why,  we  all  need  discipline!  Someone 
has  said  that  respect  is  no  longer  a  part 
of  the  everyday  living.  The  lack  of 
discipline  will  bring  a  lack  of  respect. 
Are  parents  smart  to  give  in?  Would 
we  not  be  better  parents  if  we  put  our 
"foot  down"?  Youngsters  are  still  young- 
sters, perhaps  immature.  They  need  so 
much  help  and  so  much  counsel.  They 
have  a  lot  to  learn,  but  as  parents  we 
should  not  be  afraid  to  teach  them. 

Perhaps  we  should  let  our  youngsters 
know  that  they  are  supposed  to  achieve 
— they  will  be  required  to  work,  and 
that  celebration  comes  only  after  vic- 
tory, accomplishment,  and  achievement. 
A  sensible  youngster  does  not  necessarily 
want  his  freedom.  All  he  wants  and 
needs  is  love,  and  he  knows  deep  down 
in  his  heart  that  the  people  who  love 
him  the  most  are  the  ones  who  will 
have  the  courage  to  say  "no."  Disci- 
pline— yes,  it  is  necessary  to  save  our 
youngsters  from  themselves! 

There  is  no  strength  comparable  to 
the  strength  of  a  nation  whose  people 
know  the  meaning  of  sacrifice.  Some 
parents  say,  "We  do  not  want  our 
youngsters  to  sacrifice."  Young  people 
should  be  taught  the  meaning  and  the 
law  of  sacrifice.  They  will  have  to  pay 
a  price  for  success.  The  price  of  suc- 
cess is  high,  but  it  is  not  nearly  so  high 
as  the  price  of  failure! 

There  are  so  many  unwholesome  out- 
side influences  working  against  us  to- 
day, that  it  is  a  challenge  to  all  parents 
to  teach  their  children  properly  and 
watch  over  them  carefully. 

During  the  last  year,  many  of  us 
have  become  increasingly  alarmed  by 
the  fact  that  prolonged  exposure  to  tele- 
vision is  having  a  disastrous  effect  on 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


65 


our  children.  Many  times,  parents  use 
television  as  a  built-in  substitute  for 
parental  guidance. 

According  to  Edward  R.  Murrow,  and 
I  quote: 

"As  a  child's  mind  and  character  is 
shaped  by  what  he  sees  and  hears  and 
as  TV  trends  continue,  the  nation  faces 
the  danger  of  mass  imbecility." 

Television  has  taken  the  place  of 
reading,  studying,  and  true  family  life 
in  many  homes.  If  this  continues  for 
another  generation,  we  may  be  shocked 
at  the  results. 

During  the  past  year,  the  greatest 
wave  of  crime  and  horror  shows  of  all 
time  has  deluged  this  nation. 

Last  fall,  a  prominent  magazine  stated 
that  networks  were  devoting  twenty- 
four  hours  a  week  to  violence.  Of  the 
thirty-one  new  programs  introduced 
(and  that  number  has  now  increased), 
half  are  devoted  to  violence.  It  also 
states  that  one  week's  television  pro- 
grams showed  160  murders,  500  percent 
more  than  five  years  ago;  60  justifiable 
homicides;  192  attempted  murders;  83 
robberies;  15  kidnappings;  24  con- 
spiracies to  commit  murder;  21  jail 
breaks;  7  attempted  lynchings;  6  dyna- 
mitings;  11  extortions;  2  cases  of  arson; 
and  2  cases  of  torture;  plus  an  un- 
accountable number  of  fights,  sluggings, 
maulings,  etc. 

I  wonder  if  we  realize  what  effect  this 
is  going  to  have.  It  seems  a  shame  that 
children  should  be  subjected  to  such 
atrocities.  What  we  need  are  more 
producers  and  sponsors  who  are  inter- 
ested in  educational  programs  and  char- 
acter building. 

Judge  Frank  J.  Kronenburg  of  New 
York  says  that  "television  is  an  instru- 
ment of  undue  pressure  that  convinces 
the  immature  mind  that  violence  is  an 
accepted  way  of  life.  .  .  .  The  results 
will  best  be  known  by  posterity.  .  .  ." 

James  V.  Bennett,  director  of  the 
Federal  Bureau  of  Prisons,  states:  "The 
increasing  number  of  prisoners  young 
and  old  whose  crime  closely  parallels 
what  they  have  seen  on  television  is 
a  matter  of  great  concern  to  me.  The 
impressionable  maladjusted  or  emo- 
tional young  person  sees  these  crimes 
and  re-enacts  them." 

Since  all  of  us  are  so  deeply  con- 
cerned, it  is  up  to  us  to  encourage  and 


suggest  to  sponsors,  stations,  public 
officials,  radio  commissioners,  news- 
papers, and  magazines,  new  and  different 
programs;  and  patronize  good  programs. 
Television  is  a  great  modern  invention. 
It  can  be  so  educational,  it  can  be  such 
a  help  in  character  building.  Many 
programs  are  already  very  excellent,  and 
we  should  support  them. 

The  proper  use  of  leisure  time  is  very 
important,  and  the  proper  use  of  it  has 
been  the  means  of  helping  many  young 
men  and  women  to  greatness. 

I  recently  heard  someone  say,  talking 
about  television,  that  it  was  a  good  way 
to  kill  time.  Then  I  thought  at  that 
time  of  what  Thoreau  once  said:  "As 
if  you  could  kill  time  without  injuring 
eternity." 

Of  course,  we  as  parents  cannot 
blame  all  juvenile  delinquency  on  tele- 
vision. We  must  take  the  responsi- 
bility in  the  home.  Make  no  mistake 
about  that.  Most  parents  love  their 
children  and  want  them  to  have  as 
much  freedom  as  is  necessary,  but  as 
Sam  Levenson  says,  "We  don't  want 
the  Bill  of  Rights  to  turn  into  the  rights 
of  Billy." 

"It  is  a  fulltime  job  to  be  decent" — 
to  be  decent  to  everybody  all  the  time. 
To  be  decent  is  to  cease  bitterness, 
jealousy,  and  hate,  to  refrain  from  gos- 
sip, refrain  from  backbiting,  and  from 
passing  on  untrue  comments  and  un- 
reliable stories  about  another,  to  be 
considerate,  thoughtful,  and  sympa- 
thetic. After  all,  everyone  that  I  know 
of  already  has  a  very  heavy  load  to 
carry. 

Referring  to  the  life  of  Jesus,  there 
was  no  hate  in  him,  but  only  gentle- 
ness and  patience.  Through  him,  it 
was  not  just  a  religion  that  was  born. 
It  was  man  reaching  out  for  something 
clean  and  good,  yearning  for  something 
decent  and  dignified.  Men  had  known 
for  centuries  that  happiness  did  not 
evolve  from  violence  and  injustice,  not 
even  from  power.  They  knew  cruelty 
always  defeated  itself. 

Jesus  taught  that  respect  and  love 
should  be  the  primary  guides  of  human 
behavior  and  human  decency.  There 
is  an  eternal  hope  that  this  can  be  a 
good  world,  that  nations  can  live  in 
harmony,  that  people  can  produce  and 
trade  and  serve,  each  for  the  profit  of 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

the  other.  It  is  a  beautiful  thing  that 
man  after  all  his  tragic  experience  with 
war,  brutality  and  despair,  can  hold  to 
this  wonderful  belief. 

Remember,  young  people,  there  is  a 
price  for  success,  but  the  price  of  suc- 
cess is  not  nearly  so  high  as  the  price 
of  failure.  Remember,  young  people, 
that  you  are  holding  our  hearts  and 
your  future  in  your  hands. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
Lord  for  his  kindness  and  mercies  to 
me,  for  his  blessings,  for  his  help  and 
his  guidance.  I  know  that  this  is  the 
true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know 
that  God  lives,  that  he  is  our  Father.  I 
know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of 
God,  our  beloved  Savior  and  Redeemer. 

I  wonder  how  near  we  can  get  to  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  to  our  Savior.  I 
know  from  my  own  experience  that 
when  I  can  become  humble,  it  is  pos- 
sible for  me  to  get  very  close  to  the 
Lord.    I  know  that  there  is  divine  in- 


Second  Day 

spiration  and  revelation  in  the  Church 
today.  I  know  that  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  a  prophet  of 
God,  is  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  I 
know  he  is  inspired  of  the  Lord.  I 
know  that  the  priesthood  is  in  the 
Church  today,  and  that  inspiration  and 
revelation  in  the  Church  today  is  as 
strong  or  stronger  than  we  have  ever 
known  it  before. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  live 
up  to  the  standards  of  this  beautiful 
gospel,  to  this  Church  which  is  our 
life,  which  makes  our  life  as  it  is,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the 
Persiding  Bishopric  has  just  addressed 
us.  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  prompted  in  the  subject  of  my 
few  remarks  by  a  recent  saddening  ex- 
perience, which  I  had  with  some  young 
people  of  Latter-day  Saint  parentage 
who  have  allowed  their  faith  to  dwindle 
while  they  have  sought  for  higher  edu- 
cation in  the  so-called  secular  fields, 
and  I  am  encouraged  in  discussing  some 
of  these  matters  by  what  has  appeared 
to  be  the  theme  of  this  session  of  our 
conference.  I  therefore  seek  for  the 
sustaining  of  your  faith  and  prayers 
for  these  next  few  minutes. 

Some  two  years  ago  I  came  across  a 
report  in  the  New  York  Times  of  a 
statement  made  by  Dr.  O.  H.  Mowrer 
of  the  University  of  Illinois,  psychologist 
and  former  president  of  the  American 
Psychological  Association.  This  state- 
ment came  out  of  a  symposium  on  the 
relationship  between  religion  and  men- 
tal health  at  the  sixty-fifth  annual 
meeting  of  the  American  Psychological 
Association  held  in  the  Statler  Hotel  in 
New  York  City.  This  is  what  Dr. 
Mowrer  says: 

"Psychology  does  not  know  enough 
about  religion,  psychology  does  not  have 


all  the  answers.  In  fact,"  he  observed, 
"it  has  not  even  asked  all  the  right 
questions — the  great  soul-shaking  ques- 
tions of  life  and  death  which  lie  at  the 
very  heart  of  human  experience  and 
existence."  Dr.  Mowrer  further  said: 
"It  is  striking  how  many  psychologists 
are  themselves  going  back  to  church,  or 
at  least  carefully  sending  their  children 
to  Sunday  School."  He  concluded  then 
by  saying:  "This  symposium  is  far 
from  an  occasion  for  celebration,  but 
rather  a  call  to  labor  in  a  vineyard 
which  we  psychologists  have  rather 
systematically  neglected  and  despised." 

It  has  been  a  source  of  great  satisfac- 
tion for  me  to  have  observed  in  my 
contacts  with  men  in  various  fields  that 
other  great  men  in  other  fields  are  like- 
wise seeking  for  the  answers  to  the 
soul-shaking  questions,  as  he  put  it, 
which  lie  at  the  heart  of  human  experi- 
ence and  existence. 

Some  time  ago  I  was  privileged  to 
have  a  telephone  conversation  with  one 
of  the  religion  editors  for  a  great  na- 
tional news  chain.  He  was  preparing 
an  article  that  was  to  precede  the  show- 


ELDER  HA1 

ing  of  the  great  Hill  Cumorah  Pageant. 
He  said  he  wanted  to  talk  with  me 
about  what  he  called — I  think  he  called 
it  the  "intricate"  teachings  of  the 
Church.  When  I  asked  him  to  explain 
what  he  meant,  he  said,  "Well,  this 
baptism  for  the  dead."  So,  as  I  ex- 
plained to  him  the  teachings  of  the 
Church,  he  said,  "Well,  your  teaching 
regarding  baptism  for  the  dead  is  like 
praying  souls  out  of  purgatory."  I 
said,  "Well,  I  suppose  the  intent  may 
be  said  to  be  the  same,  but  there  is  one 
distinctive  difference.  One  is  scriptural 
and  true,  and  the  other  is  not."  Then 
he  challenged  me  to  prove  from  the 
scriptures — this  over  the  telephone — 
how  we  could  take  this  stand. 

I  called  his  attention  to  what  the 
Lord  said  to  the  evilly  intended  Jews 
who  sought  his  life:  "Verily,  verily,  I  say 
unto  you,  the  hour  is  coming  and  now 
is  when  the  dead  shall  hear  the  voice 
of  the  Son  of  God:  and  they  that  hear 
shall  live."  (John  5:25.)  That  hour 
that  he  spoke  of  was  explained,  un- 
doubtedly, by  the  Master  to  his 
disciples — at  least  Peter  understood  it 
so  well  that  in  his  epistles  he  wrote 
very  clearly  about  it.  After  the  resur- 
rection he  said:  ".  .  .  being  put  to 
death  in  the  flesh  [Jesus],  quickened 
by  the  Spirit,  .  .  .  went  and  preached 
to  the  spirits  in  prison,  which  had  been 
disobedient  in  the  days  of  Noah."  (See 
I  Peter  3:18-20.) 

And  he  further  said:  "For  this  cause 
was  the  gospel  preached  also  to  them 
that  are  dead,  that  they  might  be 
judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh 
but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit." 
(Ibid.,  4:6.) 

Then  I  called  his  attention  to  the  fact 
that  the  method  or  practice  of  this  gos- 
pel ordinance  was  used  by  the  Apostle 
Paul  as  an  argument  for  the  resurrec- 
tion, when  he  asked  the  question  as 
he  wrote  to  the  Corinthians:  "Else  what 
shall  they  do  which  are  baptized  for 
the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at  all? 
why  are  they  then  baptized  for  the 
dead?"  (I  Cor.  15:29.) 

Some  while  later,  after  his  article 
had  been  written,  I  had  occasion  to  visit 
this  man  again  in  a  hospital  where  he 
was  convalescing  from  a  major  opera- 
tion. This  time  his  wife  was  present, 
and  after  the  necessary  introduction,  he 


)LD  B.  LEE  67 

said:  "I  wish  you  would  explain  to  my 
wife  here  what  you  told  me  about  the 
intricate  teachings  of  your  Church." 
And  so,  with  the  realization  that  I  was 
in  a  man's  hospital  room  and  he  was 
convalescing,  I  proceeded  to  explain 
what  I  had  previously  said  to  him,  at 
the  conclusion  of  which  he  said  to  her: 
"I  told  you  that  the  teachings  of  the 
Mormon  Church  are  like  bricks  in  a 
wall  of  a  house,  put  together  with  no 
gaps  in  them.  They  have  an  answer 
for  everything." 

Then  I  said  to  him,  "Of  course,  you 
realize  that  your  comment  is  to  us  but 
another  testimony  of  the  divine  origin 
of  this  Church  and  the  gospel  principles 
which  do  supply  an  answer  for  every- 
thing affecting  life  and  death." 

The  principles  of  the  gospel  are  un- 
changeable, and  they  are  fixed  accord- 
ing to  the  gospel  plan.  I  came  to  that 
conclusion  in  a  rather  startling  way. 
Brother  Kimball  and  I  had  an  experi- 
ence with  one  of  Brother  Moyle's 
friends,  a  great  industrialist,  to  whom 
Brother  Moyle  had  presented  a  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  with  whom  he  had 
had  many  gospel  conversations.  In  our 
presence,  and  before  the  Brigham  Young 
University  student  body,  this  man  de- 
clared that  he  accepted  the  Book  of 
Mormon  as  a  true  record  of  his  an- 
cestors, he  being  of  Cherokee  Indian 
descent.  When  we  questioned  him 
about  that,  then  if  he  accepted  the 
Book  of  Mormon  as  a  true  record  what 
did  that  make  of  Joseph  Smith,  and  he 
said  he  accepted  Joseph  Smith  as  a 
prophet,  and  he  accepted  the  Church 
as  divine,  but  he  could  not  believe  the 
principle  of  baptism  for  the  dead.  He 
said,  "I  believe  God  could  save  those 
who  have  died  in  any  way  he  wanted 
to." 

I  made,  what  I  came  to  realize  a  little 
later,  a  loose  remark  that  I  have  re- 
pented of  many  times,  when  I  said  to 
him,  "Yes,  I  suppose  God  could  have 
said,  'Throw  your  hat  over  a  cliff, 
and  you  will  be  saved.'  But  he  did  not 
say  that.  He  said,  '.  .  .  Except  a  man 
be  born  of  the  water  and  of  the  Spirit, 
only  then  could  he  be  saved.'"  (See 
John  3:5.) 

I  told  that  to  a  friend  of  mine,  and 
when  I  repeated  that  last,  "He  could 
have  said,  "Throw  your  hat  over  a  cliff,' " 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

he  said,  "Brother  Lee,  I  am  surprised 
to  hear  you  say  that.  Could  there  have 
been  any  other  way  than  the  way  he 
said?"  Then,  too  late,  I  remembered 
what  the  Master  said:  ".  .  .  strait  is  the 
gate,  and  narrow  is  the  way,  which 
leadeth  unto  life,  and  few  there  be 
that  find  it,"  (Matt.  7:14)  and  in  the 
controversy  that  followed  the  healing  of 
the  blind  at  the  pool  of  Siloam,  ".  .  .  He 
that  entereth  not  by  the  door  into  the 
sheepfold,  but  climbeth  up  some  other 
way,  the  same  is  a  thief  and  a  robber." 
(John  10:1.) 

The  Lord  has  summed  up  the  gospel 
in  these  words:  "And  this  is  my  gospel — 
repentance  and  baptism  by  water,  and 
then  cometh  the  baptism  of  fire  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,  even  the  Comforter, 
which  showeth  all  things  and  teacheth 
the  peaceable  things  of  the  kingdom." 
(D&C  39:6.) 

What  is  the  gospel  then?  What  a 
glorious  definition  we  have  listened  to 
this  morning  in  President  Richards'  ad- 
dress. So  often  I  hear  my  brethren 
saying  something  that  I  wish  we  would 
not  say  quite  that  way — that  the  gospel 
is  a  way  of  life.  It  is  not  a  way  of  life- 
it  is  the  way  to  eternal  life.  It  is  the 
science  of  salvation.  I  quote  from  some- 
thing that  our  late  beloved  brother, 
Orson  F.  Whitney,  wrote  some  years 
ago  when  he  said: 

"The  principles  which  compose  the 
gospel — and  not  merely  the  first  prin- 
ciples, but  all  that  have  been  or  will 
ever  be  revealed  are  self-existent  and 
everlasting  in  their  nature.  They  have 
existed  from  all  eternity,  and  will  en- 
dure through  all  eternities  to  come,  for 
they  are  absolute,  essential,  uncreated 
truths,  without  beginning  of  day  or 
end  of  years,  the  same  yesterday,  today, 
and  forever.  Concerning  the  time, 
place,  and  method  of  their  compila- 
tion ...  it  is  not  man's  present  province 
to  enquire."  (Elder's  Journal  4:26.) 
_  Yes,  our  religion  editor  of  the  na- 
tional newspaper  chain,  you  are  right. 
Gospel  truths  are  as  brick  upon  brick, 
in  a  solid  wall.  There  are  no  gaps. 
Will  you  choice  young  Latter-day  Caints, 
and  our  friends  in  the  fields  of  science 
and  psychology  and  philosophy— will 
you  heed  the  call  of  Dr.  Mowrer,  one  of 
the  most  brilliant  leaders  in  your  secu- 
lar world,  and  as  he  said,  heed  his  call 


Second  Day 

to  labor  in  the  vineyard,  which  all  too 
often  you  have  systematically  neglected 
and  despised. 

Our  beloved  late  Dr.  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  an  eminent  scholar,  has  set  forth 
in  clearness  the  essential  relationship 
between  scientific  theory  and  truth  in  an 
article  entitled:  "Prophecy  as  the  Fore- 
runner of  Science."  It  was  written 
many  years  ago,  and  this  is  what  he 
said: 

"The  man  of  truly  scientific  spirit 
regards  a  theory  in  its  real  character — 
as  a  provisional  and  tentative  explana- 
tion of  phenomena  not  otherwise  easy 
to  comprehend.  Theory  is  but  the 
scaffolding  necessary  to  the  work  of 
rightly  placing  the  building  blocks  of 
truth  in  the  wall  of  the  rising  edifice 
of  science.  These  building  blocks  are 
demonstrated  facts,  truths  made  plain, 
and  when  they  are  in  place,  their  proper 
relation  to  each  other  duly  established, 
the  scaffolding,  which  is  inadequate  and 
unsightly  at  best,  is  torn  down.  Theory 
becomes  unnecessary  as  our  knowledge 
of  facts  increases.  .  .  ."  (Improvement 
Era  7:487.) 

Nearly  twenty  years  ago  because  of, 
shall  I  say,  some  immature  observa- 
tions at  that  time  I  wrote  something 
that  I  read  again  the  other  day  to  see 
if  I  could  now  say  the  same  thing.  The 
testimony  of  those  nearly  twenty  years 
that  have  intervened  convinced  me  all 
the  more  that  these  facts  are  true.  That 
person  who  thinks  he  has  outgrown  his 
Church  and  his  religion  has  in  reality 
proved  himself  too  small  to  bear  the 
responsibilities  his  membership  entails 
and  has  shut  himself  up  in  his  small 
intellectual  world,  and  the  vast  treasures 
in  the  unseen  world  of  spiritual  truths 
are  closed  to  his  understanding.  "And 
if  your  eye  be  single  to  my  glory,  your 
whole  bodies  shall  be  filled  with  light, 
and  there  shall  be  no  darkness  in  you; 
and  that  body  which  is  filled  with  light 
comprehendeth  all  things."  (D&C 
88:67.) 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  does  have 
the  right  answers  to  the  great  soul- 
shaking  questions  which  lie  at  the 
heart  of  human  experience  and  exist- 
ence, for  it  is  indeed  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  to  everyone  that  be- 
lieveth.  And  I  bear  humble  testimony 
that  I  know  it  is  true,  the  science  of 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


69 


salvation,  the  power  of  God  unto  sal- 
vation, and  I  bear  that  testimony  hum- 
bly in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  been  our  concluding 
speaker.  The  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Still,  Still  With  Thee,"  conducted  by 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie. 


The  Choir  sang  the  number,  "Still, 
Still  With  Thee,"  Richard  P.  Condie 
conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  many  of  you  know,  and  all  who 
have  been  listening  in  should  know, 
these  services  this  morning  have  been 
on  the  air  by  radio  and  television  all 
throughout  these  western  states.  Many 
of  these  stations  will  go  off  promptly  at 
12  o'clock,  and  we  wanted  them  to 
hear  the  strains  of  music  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  and  I  hope  they  have  all 
enjoyed  it.  Thank  you  Brethren  who 
have  been  so  considerate  to  enable  this 
program  to  be  completed  by  the  time 
that  these  stations  turn  off.  We  are 
glad  our  listening  audience  heard  that 
wonderful  anthem,  so  inspirationally 
and  artistically  rendered.  We  have  all 
listened  to  it. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  bringing  to  a 
conclusion  this  fourth  session  of  the 
129th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church, 
we  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to 
the  owners  and  managers  of  the  many 
television  and  radio  stations  who  have 
offered  their  facilities  to  us  during  this 
and  previous  sessions.  The  names  of 
these  stations  were  announced  prior  to 
the  opening  of  our  meeting.  This  morn- 
ing this  broadcast  appeared  on  27  tele- 
vision stations  and  has  been  heard  over 
11  radio  stations.  We  are  grateful  for 
the  attendance  of  all  who  are  present 
in  the  Tabernacle,  in  the  Assembly 
Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  other  gatherings 
where  this  Conference  is  seen  and  heard. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  this 
morning  of  prominent  persons.  I  am 
sure  all  will  be  pleased  to  know  who 
many  of  these  are,  and  we  appreciate 


their  interest,  not  in  just  attending,  but 
also  their  interest  in  the  welfare  and 
advancement  of  the  Church.  We  have 
them  listed.  These  we  have  seen: 
Brother  Wallace  F.  Bennett,  United 
States  Senator;  Brother  Frank  E.  Moss, 
United  States  Senator;  Brother  Arthur 
Watkins,  who  has  been  with  us  for 
these  many  years,  formerly  United 
States  Senator;  Brother  David  S.  King, 
United  States  Congressman;  Sherman 
B.  Christensen,  Judge  of  the  Federal 
Court;  Governor  George  Dewey  Clyde 
of  our  own  State;  Lamont  Toronto, 
Secretary  of  State;  Mayor  Adiel  F.  Ste- 
wart of  Salt  Lake  City;  Brother  H. 
Aldous  Dixon,  United  States  Congress- 
man; Educators,  A.  Ray  Olpin,  presi- 
dent of  University  of  Utah;  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson,  Brigham  Young  University 
president;  Daryl  Chase,  president  of 
Utah  State  University;  John  L.  Clarke, 
president  of  Ricks  College;  William  P. 
Miller,  president  of  Weber  College; 
Floyd  S.  Holm,  director  of  Snow  Col- 
lege; Royden  C.  Braithwaite,  president 
of  the  College  of  Southern  Utah;  M. 
Lynn  Bennion,  superintendent  of  Salt 
Lake  City  Schools;  E.  Allen  Bateman, 
state  superintendent  of  Public  Instruc- 
tion; Howard  McDonald,  president  of 
Los  Angeles  State  College;  Brother  Ezra 
Taft  Benson,  as  you  know,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  and  Secretary  of 
Agriculture;  Arthur  Bruhn  of  the  Dixie 
College;  and  others;  also  bishops  of 
wards,  presidents  of  stakes,  general  of- 
ficers of  auxiliary  organizations,  and 
other  Church  officers.  We  are  happy 
indeed  to  have  you  with  us.  You  are 
welcome,  and  I  know  you  have  been 
thrilled  with  this  great  Conference. 

This  would  be  a  good  time,  too,  to 
make  acknowledgement  in  the  presence 
of  all  those  listening  in  this  morning  of 
the  gift  of  these  beautiful  flowers.  Fif- 
teen thousand  sweet  peas  have  come 
from  the  Indian  Sunday  School  at  Fort 
McDowell,  Arizona,  grown  and  picked 
by  the  Indian  children.  Think  what 
that  means!  With  all  our  hearts  we 
express  appreciation  and  thanks  for 
these  flowers  bearing  sweet  messages  of 
affectionate  greeting  and  loyal  support. 

There  are  5000  daffodils  from  the 
Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival  of  Ta- 
coma,  Washington  sent  in  cooperation 
with  the  presidency  of  the  Tacoma  Stake; 


70 

Sunday,  April  5 

1200  calla  lilies  from  the  high  priests 
of  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake;  40  dozen 
gladiolas  from  the  Ft.  Myers  Branch  of 
the  Southern  States  Mission,  grown  by 
Brother  and  Sister  William  Nychyk, 
who  have  200  acres  of  gladiolas  in  Ft. 
Myers,  Florida.  The  beautiful  stocks 
have  come  from  Arizona  from  the 
Phoenix,  the  East  Phoenix,  and  the 
Phoenix  North  Stakes.  Seventy-eight 
beautiful  Easter  plants  have  come  from 
Paul  Flint  of  the  Kaysville  Second 
Ward.  Each  plant  contains  several 
blossoms.  Mary  A.  Persson  of  Wood- 
land, California  sent  three  dozen  beau- 
tiful calla  lilies. 

We  express  appreciation  of  the  effort 
put  forth  by  members  of  these  wards, 
branches,  stakes  and  missions.  Our 
thoughts  and  best  wishes  will  be  with 
them  as  we  enjoy  the  beauty  of  their 
flowers  during  this  annual  Conference 
of  the  Church.  We  wish  also  to  men- 
tion Brother  and  Sister  Mart  Jorgensen 
of  the  Granite  Ward  of  this  city,  who 
have  worked  early  and  late  in  arrang- 
ing and  placing  these  thousands  of 
flowers  in  vases.  We  thank  the  Taber- 
nacle Ushers  who  have  rendered  serv- 
ice early  and  late  in  seating  the  great 
audiences,  and  we  appreciate  the  co- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

operation  of  City  officials — Chief  W. 
Cleon  Skousen,  traffic  officers,  etc. — 
in  handling  increased  traffic,  the  Fire 
Department,  the  Red  Cross. 

You  will  note  that  the  ladies  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  are  wearing  blue 
blouses  this  morning,  and  the  men  blue 
shirts.  This  is  necessary  to  obtain  a 
better  television  picture,  so  this  whole 
program  has  been  arranged  for  the  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  listeners-in  this 
morning.  The  singing,  so  inspirational 
to  us  all,  is  from  our  own  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting, 
and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 
To  all  the  members  of  the  Choir  we 
express  appreciation  for  their  time,  tal- 
ent, and  particularly  the  spirit  with 
which  they  sang  these  beautiful  an- 
thems. 

We  shall  now  be  dismissed  by  Elder 
Harold  I.  Bowman,  formerly  president 
of  the  Spanish-American  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  2  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


Elder  Harold  I.  Bowman,  formerly 
president  of  the  Spanish-American  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Sunday  afternoon  session  of  the 
great  Conference  convened  at  2:00  p.m., 
Sunday,  April  5,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
meeting. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  this 
meeting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "Thanks  Be 
To  God,"  with  Elder  Jay  E.  Welch  con- 
ducting. The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Asael  T.  Sorensen, 
formerly  president  of  the  Brazilian  Mis- 
sion. 


The  Choir  sang  "Thanks  Be  To  God," 
Jay  E.  Welch  conducting. 

Elder  Asael  T.  Sorensen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Brazilian  Mission,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"The  King  of  Glory,"  Sister  Jessie  Evans 
Smith  as  soloist,  conducted  by  Richard 
P.  Condie. 


The  Choir  sang  "The  King  of  Glory," 
with  Jessie  Evans  Smith  as  soloist,  con- 
ducted by  Richard  P.  Condie. 


71 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Frequent  reference  has  been  made 
throughout  this  conference  by  previous 
speakers  to  the  importance  of  training 
youth.  Several  messages  have  been  di- 
rected specifically  to  the  young  people 
of  the  Church.  I  should  like  to  say  a 
few  words  on  this  important  theme. 

Our  children  are  our  most  precious 
possessions.  They  are  treasures  of  eter- 
nity. None  of  them  should  be  lost. 
Our  Father's  glory  is  in  their  salvation. 
As  a  Church  we  have  great  opportunity 
to  reach  these  young  people;  and  as  in- 
dividuals— teachers  and  officers — we 
have  a  great  responsibility  in  teaching 
them  correct  principles. 

Emphasizing  the  opportunities  of  the 
Church  in  this  regard,  Paul  wrote  to  the 
branch  at  Corinth:  "And  he  gave  some, 
apostles;  and  some,  prophets;  and  some, 
evangelists;  and  some,  pastors,  and 
teachers; 

"For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for 
the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  edify- 
ing of  the  body  of  Christ; 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness 
of  Christ."  (Ephesians  4:11-13.) 

Fitness  of  American  Youth 

On  November  21,  1957,  the  President 
of  the  United  States  appointed  the 
President's  Council  on  Youth  Fitness, 
composed  of  the  Secretary  of  the  In- 
terior as  Chairman,  the  Secretary  of 
Defense,  the  Secretary  of  Agriculture, 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  who  sits  here  with 
us  this  afternoon,  the  Secretary  of  Labor, 
and  the  Secretary  of  Health,  Education, 
and  Welfare. 

He  said  it  was  the  duty  of  this  council 
to  promote  the  efficacy  of  existing  pro- 
grams and  the  launching  of  additional 
programs  which  will  enhance  the  fitness 
of  American  youth.  He  also  established 
at  that  time  the  President's  Citizens 
Advisory  Committee  on  the  Fitness  of 
American  Youth.    That  was  in  1957. 

On  the  thirty-first  day  of  January  of 
this  year,  the  President  issued  another 
proclamation: 

"Whereas  the  ongoing  strength  of 
our  Nation  depends  upon  the  health  of 
our  young  people;  and 


"Whereas  we  must  always  strive  to 
improve  the  fitness  of  our  youth  by  de- 
termined and  coordinated  efforts;  and 

"Whereas,  in  this  challenging  world, 
it  is  essential  that  our  young  people 
recognize  their  obligation  to  themselves, 
to  their  families,  and  to  the  Nation,  to 
endeavor  to  keep  themselves  mentally, 
emotionally,  spiritually,  socially,  and 
physically  fit;  and 

"Whereas  the  President's  Council  on 
Youth  Fitness  has  recommended  that  a 
National  Youth  Fitness  Week  be  desig- 
nated: 

"Now,  therefore,  I,  Dwight  D.  Eisen- 
hower, President  of  the  United  States 
of  America,  do  hereby  proclaim  the 
week  beginning  May  3,  1959,  as  Na- 
tional Youth  Fitness  Week. 

"I  request  officials  of  the  Government, 
and  I  urge  parents,  young  people,  and 
interested  local  and  national  organiza- 
tions, to  use  all  appropriate  means  dur- 
ing that  week  to  promote  programs  and 
activities  demonstrating  the  importance 
of  youth  fitness  to  the  end  that  we  may 
assure  the  continuing  strength  and  well 
being  of  our  people." 

Over  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago  an- 
other President  of  the  United  States 
made  the  following  significant  reference 
to  the  importance  of  training  childhood 
and  youth  (I  quote  from  President 
Hoover's  address  to  the  White  House 
Conference  on  Child  Health  and  Pro- 
tection, November  1,  1931,  Washington, 
D.  C.) 

"These  questions  of  child  health  and 
protection  are  a  complicated  problem 
requiring  much  learning  and  much  ac- 
tion. And  we  need  have  great  concern 
over  this  matter.  Let  no  one  believe  that 
these  are  questions  which  should  not 
stir  a  nation;  that  they  are  below  the 
dignity  of  statesmen  or  governments.  If 
we  could  have  but  one  generation  of 
properly  born,  trained,  educated,  and 
healthy  children,  a  thousand  other 
problems  of  government  would  vanish. 
We  would  assure  ourselves  of  healthier 
minds  in  more  vigorous  bodies,  to  direct 
the  energies  of  our  Nation  to  yet  greater 
heights  of  achievement." 

President  Eisenhower's  council  has 
as  its  scope  not  only  "muscle  making" 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

and  "tendon  stretching,"  as  set  forth  hy 
Shane  McCarthy,  Executive  Director, 
but  also  the  mental,  moral,  emotional, 
and  spiritual  development  of  youth. 
This  youth  program  is  most  timely  and 
fitting.  I  am  glad  that  two  of  our 
General  Authorities  are  connected  with 
it— Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy. 

Recently  one  of  my  sons  called  atten- 
tion to  an  address  delivered  by  Major 
Mayer  of  the  Brook  Army  Medical 
Center,  Department  of  Psychiatry,  San 
Antonio,  Texas.  It  was  delivered  to  the 
officers  and  supervisors  of  the  San 
Francisco  Naval  Shipyard,  and  the 
Naval  Radiological  Defense  Laboratory 
on  the  fourth  of  October,  1956.  The 
major  pointed  out  that  the  communists 
have  gained  control  over  many  people 
in  this  world  by  the  well-known  devices 
of  wars,  purges,  Siberian  war  camps, 
mass  executions,  etc.  But  he  says  more 
significant  is  the  fact  that  for  every 
person  brought  under  the  Russian  ban- 
ner by  violence,  many  hundreds  have 
been  controlled  without  violence,  and 
yet  such  control  has  been  absolute. 

Then  he  gives  the  result  of  his  study 
of  4000  returning  prisoners  of  war  from 
Korea,  and  he  finds  a  technique  which 
has  been  termed  "brainwashing."  Be- 
fore the  communists  could  put  their 
plan  into  effect  they  had  to  segregate 
these  prisoners,  which  they  did  very 
simply  by  putting  them  into  what  was 
called  "reactionary"  camps.  Note  whom 
they  put  into  these  "reactionary"  camps. 

First,  people  who  tried  to  be  leaders 
or  who  showed  what  the  communists 
called  "poisonous  individualism."  If 
the  soldier  had  the  temerity  to  try  to 
organize  anything,  off  he  went  to  the 
"reactionary"  camp.  He  was  obviously 
hopeless. 

Second,  those  "reactionaries"  or  peo- 
ple with  a  higher  education,  who  were 
considered  automatically  pretty  reac- 
tionary unless  they  volunteered  to  co- 
operate, and  some  of  these  did. 

Third,  overtly  religious  people.  The 
communists  felt  that  they  could  not  do 
much  with  them. 

Out  of  these  4000  prisoners,  what  per- 
cent do  you  think  they  put  in  the  "re- 
actionary"  camp?  Five  percent,  and 


Second  Day 

after  getting  rid  of  those,  they  began 
the  process  of  "brainwashing."  It  is 
surprising  how  many  soldiers  knew  so 
little  about  our  way  of  life — the  Ameri- 
can way  of  life. 

Once  they  had  the  leaders  segregated, 
they  invoked  the  techniques  which  have 
become  universal  throughout  the  com- 
munist world. 

Youth's  Responsibility 

We  are  living  in  an  age  of  gadgetry 
which  threatens  to  produce  a  future 
generation  of  softness.  Flabbiness  of 
character  more  than  flabbiness  of  mus- 
cles lies  at  the  root  of  most  of  the 
problems  facing  American  youth. 

The  youth  of  yesterday  are  carrying 
the  responsibilities  and  directing  the 
affairs  of  the  world  today.  The  youth 
of  today  will  contribute  to  the  destiny 
of  the  world  tomorrow. 

Never  a  day  passes  but  gives  some 
reminder  of  the  fleetness  of  time  and  the 
brevity  of  life — childhood — youth — ma- 
turity— old  age.  In  childhood  there  is 
no  past — no  future — happy  in  the  pres- 
ent— heaven  lies  about  him,  and  it  is 
all  for  him. 

Youth — beautiful — sweet — rash — inex- 
perienced! In  the  words  of  Longfellow: 

"How  beautiful  is  Youth!  How  bright  it 
gleams 

With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams! 
Book  of  Beginnings,  Story  without  End, 
Each  maid  a  heroine,  and  each  man  a 
friendl" 

Then  comes  manhood  with  all  its 
responsibilities,  duties,  failures,  suc- 
cesses, each  spending  his  time  and 
worry  on  how  much  he  can  get,  instead 
of  how  much  he  can  give  to  this  world 
and  make  it  better.  Before  he  knows 
it  old  age  is  upon  him.  "The  easiest 
thing  for  our  friends  to  discover  in  us, 
and  the  hardest  thing  for  us  to  discover 
in  ourselves  is  that  we  are  growing  old." 
But  of  one  thing  we  are  keenly  aware — 
that 

"Years  rush  by  us  like  the  wind 
We  see  not  whence  the  eddy  comes, 
Nor  whitherward  it  is  tending, 
And  we  seem,  ourselves,  to  witness  their 
flight 

Without  a  sense  that  we  are  changed. 


PRESIDENT  D 

Yet  time  is  beguiling  man  of  his  strength 
As  the  winds  rob  the  trees  of  their 
foliage." 

(Sir  Walter  Scott's  "Woodstock") 

The  President's  Council  on  Youth 
Fitness  should  be  commended  in  recom- 
mending that  a  National  Youth  Fitness 
Week  be  designated.  By  so  doing  they 
recognize  that  in  this  challenging  world 
it  is  essential  that  our  young  people  be 
aware  of  their  obligations  to  themselves, 
to  their  families,  and  to  the  nation.  In 
this  recognition  they  endeavor  to  keep 
themselves  mentally,  emotionally,  spirit- 
ually, socially,  and  physically  fit. 

7.  Responsibility  of  Parents 

Parents  have  a  responsibility  in  this 
education.  Youth  needs  guidance,  di- 
rection, and  proper  restraint.  "Let  thy 
child's  first  lesson  be  obedience,  and  the 
second  will  be  what  thou  wilt,"  said 
Benjamin  Franklin.  A  child  learns  this 
lesson  early  at  his  mother's  knee — some- 
times across  his  mother's  knee.  The 
child  should  learn  early  that  the  world 
is  not  created  for  him  alone;  that  he 
has  an  obligation  to  others;  that  he 
owes  his  parents,  particularly,  a  debt 
unpayable  except  in  only  one  way — in 
living  a  life  that  will  honor  his  name 
and  bring  joy  to  them  in  their  old  age. 
He  should  learn  that 

"He  ought  to  be  true  for  the  sake  of 

the  folks  who  think  he  is  true. 
He  should  never  stoop  to  a  deed  that 

his  folks  think  he  would  not  do. 
If  he  is  false  to  himself,  be  the  blemish 

but  small, 
He  has  injured  his  folks,  he  has  been 

false  to  them  all." 

(Paraphrased  from  Edgar  A.  Guest.) 

It  was  old  King  Lear  who  cried  in 
his  anguish,  "How  sharper  than  a  ser- 
pent's tooth  it  is  to  have  a  thankless 
child."  He  is  recreant,  indeed,  who  for 
selfish  indulgence  would  bring  disgrace 
upon  his  parents,  and  upon  the  good 
name  he  bears. 

Parents,  too,  have  a  reponsibility  in 
this  training  not  to  provoke  children  to 
wrath.  They  should  be  considerate  not 
to  irritate  by  vexatious  commands  or 
place  unreasonable  blame.  Whenever 
possible  they  should  give  encouragement 
rather  than  remonstrance  or  reproof. 


VID  O.  McKAY  73 

11.  The  Obligation  of  the  Church 

The  obligation  of  the  Church  is  to 
spend  not  just  one  week  this  coming 
month  on  Youth  Fitness,  but  fifty-two 
weeks  every  year.  Quorums  and  or- 
ganizations have  been  set  up  in  the 
Church,  as  our  text  says,  for  the  "per- 
fecting of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of 
the  ministry,  for  the  edifying  of  the 
body  of  Christ; 

"Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the  Son 
of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the 
measure  of  the  stature  of  the  fulness 
of  Christ."  (Ephesians  4:12-13.) 

Now,  let  us  just  take  a  glimpse  of  the 
completeness  of  the  Church  organiza- 
tions, and  we  shall  find  it  discloses  the 
fact  that  in  the  auxiliary  organizations, 
quorums,  and  other  groups,  there  is  an 
army  of  officers  and  teachers  ready  to 
guide  and  direct  youth  in  the  proper 
way. 

In  the  Sunday  School  for  example, 
there  are  82,449  officers  and  teachers, 
having  under  their  charge  664,750  peo- 
ple. Primary:  51,053  officers  and  teach- 
ers, having  under  their  charge  290,789 
children.  YMMIA:  24,754  officers  and 
teachers,  and  178,766  youth  under  their 
direction.  YWMIA:  32,988  officers  and 
teachers,  and  194,094  girls  under  them. 
Aaronic  Priesthood:  28,837  officers  and 
teachers,  having  86,176  youth.  Foreign 
missionaries:  5,512,  and  stake  mission- 
aries, 5,934,  or  11,446  missionaries.  Or  a 
total  of  231,527  officers  and  teachers 
in  the  Church  who  first  of  all  should  be 
exemplars.  "Children  have  more  need 
of  models  than  of  critics."  No  officer 
or  teacher  should  be  continued  in  office 
who  persists  in  the  obnoxious  use  of 
tobacco.  The  elder  who  hesitates  to 
teach  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  shirking 
his  duty.  He  who  fails  to  live  it  robs 
himself  of  strength  of  body  and  strength 
of  character  to  which  he  is  entitled. 

Resisting  Temptation 

Truth  is  loyalty  to  the  right  as  we 
see  it;  it  is  courageous  living  of  our 
lives  in  harmony  with  our  ideals;  it  is 
always  power.  With  the  ideals  of 
right  living  before  him,  no  member  of 
the  Church  can  continually  violate  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  with  impunity. 

In  this  old  world,  the  easiest  way 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

seems  to  be  the  indulgent  way.  If  a 
person  has  the  least  desire  or  inclina- 
tion to  drink  tea  and  coffee  or  to  smoke 
cigarets,  temptations  to  indulge  the 
appetite  are  on  every  hand.  At  parties, 
during  social  calls,  at  chance  introduc- 
tions or  friendly  visits,  in  restaurants  or 
trains,  indulgence  in  these  stimulants 
and  narcotics  is  not  only  encouraged 
but  also  too  often  urged.  Under  such 
influence  and  environment,  the  easy  way 
is  to  yield  and  become  one  of  the 
crowd.  But  not  one  of  these  officers, 
231,527  of  them,  should  ever  yield  to 
that  easy  way.  One  never  develops 
character  by  yielding  to  wrong.  "To 
him  that  overcometh  will  I  give  to  eat 
of  the  tree  of  life.  .  .  ."  (Rev.  2:7.) 
Strength  comes  by  resisting! 

We  are  living  not  only  in  a  commer- 
cial age,  but  also  in  a  nicotine  age,  and 
viciously  the  cigaret  habit  is  fastening 
itself  upon  the  human  race.  Govern- 
ment, medical,  and  other  statistics  are 
constantly  warning  us  of  the  enormous 
strides  that  this  insidious  enemy  to 
health  and  morals  is  making;  but  we 
little  realize  how  active  and  potent  are 
the  forces  at  work  to  foster  this  and 
kindred  vices,  and  all  for  commercial 
gain. 

In  "Habits  that  Handicap,"  Charles 
B.  Towne,  a  quarter  of  a  century  ago, 
explains  how  "salesmen  and  demon- 
strators a  few  years  ago  were  employed 
by  manufacturers  to  go  throughout 
China  'to  show  the  people  how  to  smoke 
cigarettes.'  It  is  estimated  that  as  a 
result  of  this  campaign,  one  half  of  the 
cigaret  consumption  in  the  world  is  in 
China.  It  is  little  wonder,  when  we 
learn  that  because  of  cheap  labor  twen- 
ty cigarets  could  be  sold  for  a  penny!" 
The  author  also  makes  this  remarkable 
statement:  "I  consider  that  cigarette 
smoking  is  the  greatest  vice  devastating 
humanity  today  because  it  is  doing  more 
than  any  other  vice  to  deteriorate  the 
race." 

Think  of  the  effect  of  an  army  of 
officers  and  teachers,  with  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  youth  under  their  care, 
not  one  of  whom  should  ever  put  a 
cigaret  in  his  or  her  mouth!  What  a 
potent  example!  The  voice  of  the 
Church  will  ever  be  raised  against  the 
increasing  tendency  among  men  and 
women  to  stain  their  lives  with  nico- 


Second  Day 

tine.  Especially  does  it  deplore  this  grow- 
ing evil  among  women.  Heretofore, 
virtuous  Anglo-Saxon  womanhood  has 
been  above  this  indulgence,  and  has 
therefore  been  a  restraining  and  up- 
lifting influence  on  men.  Now,  this 
influence  is  being  subjected  to  the  in- 
sidious lure  of  the  cigaret;  and  mothers 
of  men,  around  whom  center  the  sweet- 
est, purest,  noblest  sentiments  of  our 
lives,  are  contaminating  their  sweetness 
and  purity  by  indulgence  in  one  of 
man's  vices.  The  more  woman  becomes 
like  man,  the  less  he  will  respect  her; 
civilization  weakens  as  man's  estimate 
of  woman  lessens. 

That  it  is  woman's  right  to  indulge  in 
this  habit,  we  do  not  question;  yet,  we 
lose  some  of  that  sweet  respect  and  ad- 
miration for  women  when  we  see  them 
walk  deliberately  into  mire  holes  that 
have  heretofore  besmeared  only  men. 
It  is  difficult  to  conceive  that  any 
mother  would  arrogate  to  herself  the 
thought  that  staining  her  lips  with 
tobacco  would  add  to  her  dignity  as 
mother,  or  increase  the  admiration  and 
pride  that  children  hold  for  true  mother- 
hood. 

The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to  pro- 
claim the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel, 
to  uplift  society  that  people  may  mingle 
more  amicably  one  with  another;  to 
create  in  our  communities  a  wholesome 
environment  in  which  our  children 
may  find  strength  to  resist  temptation 
and  encouragement  to  strive  for  cul- 
tural and  spiritual  attainment.  It  is 
the  binding  duty  of  leaders  of  youth, 
and  particularly  mothers,  by  example 
to  make  ineffective  the  influence  of  de- 
signing men  who  would  make  profit  out 
of  their  fellows  who  have  fallen  so  low 
as  to  be  slaves  to  vice  and  passions. 

The  restored  gospel  is  a  rational 
philosophy  that  teaches  men  how  to  get 
happiness  in  this  life  and  exaltation  in 
the  life  to  come.  The  mission  of  the 
Church  is  to  establish  the  kingdom  of 
God  upon  the  earth,  "which  is  not  a 
mythical  but  a  real  kingdom,"  says  a 
prominent  writer  not  of  the  Church. 
"It  is  a  body  of  people  dominated  by 
ideals  of  productivity,  which  is  mutual 
service.  We  do  not  strive  for  the  things 
which  satisfy  but  for  the  moment  and 
then  leave  a  bad  taste.  We  strive  for 
the  things  which  build  us  up,  and  en- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


75 


able  us  and  our  children  to  be  strong, 
to  flourish,  and  to  conquer.  We  strive 
to  make  ourselves  worthy  to  receive 
the  world  by  fitting  ourselves  to  use 
the  world  more  productively  than  others. 
We  believe  that  obedience  to  God 
means  obedience  to  the  laws  of  nature, 
which  are  but  the  manifestations  of 
his  will;  and  we  try  by  painstaking 
study  to  acquire  the  most  complete  and 
exact  knowledge  of  that  will  in  order 
that  we  may  conform  ourselves  to  it." 
(Thomas  Nixon  Carver.) 

III.  Power  of  Example 

To  live  an  upright  life,  to  conform 
to  high  ethical  standards,  is  the  re- 
sponsibility and  duty  of  every  teacher 
of  the  land.  Greater  than  this  is  the 
responsibility  of  the  religious  teacher, 
for  in  addition  to  his  belief  in  the 
efficacy  of  ethical  and  moral  precepts, 
the  religious  teacher  assumes  the  respon- 
sibility of  leading  the  youth  into  the 
realm  of  spirituality. 

Example  is  the  best  and  most  effec- 
tive way  of  teaching.  Let  us  be  exem- 
plary in  our  speech.  No  true  leader 
of  the  Church  will  ever  profane  the 
name  of  God  or  his  Beloved  Son,  espe- 
cially in  the  presence  of  his  sons,  or  in 
the  presence  of  any  other  young  people. 
Profanity  is  a  vice.  We  can  set  a 
proper  example  also  by  speaking  well 
of  others.  The  Lord  has  admonished 
us  not  to  engage  in  backbiting.  An- 
other worthy  example  is  exercising  self- 
control,  controlling  our  temper  by  not 
speaking  angrily  in  the  home.  Let 
calmness  be  characteristic  of  our  home 
life. 

"Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the 
Lord:"  said  Paul,  "for  this  is  right. 

"Honour  thy  father  and  mother; 
which  is  the  first  commandment  with 
promise; 

"That  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and 
thou  mayest  live  long  on  the  earth. 

"And,  ye  fathers,  provoke  not  your 
children  to  wrath:  but  bring  them  up 
in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the 
Lord."  (Ephesians  6:1-4.  Italics  added.) 

To  this  admonition  of  Paul,  we  add 
the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  as  follows: 


"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have 
children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach  them 
not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  re- 
pentance, faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the 
living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old, 
the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  par- 
ents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the 
inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized.  .  .  . 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  chil- 
dren to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord."  (D&C  68:25-28.) 

The  training  of  youth  is  an  obliga- 
tion, first,  upon  the  parents;  next,  upon 
teachers  in  the  Church,  in  auxiliaries 
and  quorums,  in  the  missionary  field, 
proclaiming  the  gospel  wherever  they 
may  be  called,  and  upon  all  the  citi- 
zens whether  in  the  Church  or  out  of 
the  Church.  It  is  one  of  the  obliga- 
tions to  which  our  attention  is  now 
called  by  the  President  of  the  United 
States  who  has  placed  the  responsibility 
upon  his  cabinet,  who  have  appointed 
a  citizens'  committee,  and  asking  the 
entire  nation  to  combine  in  this  great 
educational  campaign. 

Fellow  workers,  may  inspiration  from 
on  High  be  given  each  of  us  to  discharge 
our  responsibilities  throughout  this 
Church  in  training  the  youth,  not  only 
during  Youth  Training  Week  through- 
out this  land  but  always,  having  in 
mind  God's  saying  found  only  in  this 
revealed  Church:  "For  behold,  this  is 
my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

God  help  us  to  be  true  instruments 
in  his  hands  in  accomplishing  this 
divine  ideal,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hanks,  will  you  come  forward 
please.  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  will 
now  speak  to  us  and  he  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


76 

Sunday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Second  Day 


With  you  I  rejoice  in  this  forthright 
and  impressive  statement  by  President 
David  O.  McKay  of  our  interest  and  our 
position  in  a  great  national  program. 
My  earnest  and  humble  prayer  is  that 
we  who  have  influence  with  the  young 
may  proceed  from  this  conference 
throughout  the  Church  to  give  adequate 
emphasis  to  the  great  responsibility  of 
developing  fitness  in  our  young.  I 
think,  if  we  do  we  may  expect  three 
great  results:  that,  first,  much  good  will 
come  to  the  nation,  and  the  nations, 
of  which  we  are  citizens;  second,  that  the 
missionary  work  of  the  Church  will  re- 
ceive great  impetus  through  the  mar- 
velous example  of  the  influence  of  the 
program  of  the  Church  in  the  lives  of 
its  young;  and  third,  that  the  Church 
itself  and  its  people  may  profit  measur- 
ably by  a  renewed  dedication  to  follow- 
ing the  direction  of  the  Lord  and  the 
leadership  of  the  brethren  in  providing 
opportunities  for  development  in  every 
aspect  of  the  personality  in  our  young. 

Early  this  week  our  seven-year-old 
daughter,  leading  our  family  in  prayer, 
thanked  God  for  her  and  our  eyes  and 
our  ears  and  our  mouths,  and  asked 
the  Lord  to  bless  us  that  we  could  say 
good  things  through  our  mouths,  and 
because  she  knew  her  daddy  had  to  talk 
that  morning  to  some  people  not  of 
the  Church,  she  prayed  that  he  would 
be  able  to  explain  the  gospel  under- 
standably to  them.  I  echo  her  great 
appreciation  for  God's  gifts  and  her 
earnest  petitions  also. 

A  time  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of  go- 
ing to  a  university  campus  to  participate 
in  what  they  called  "Religion  in  Life 
Week."  Their  theme,  which  I  was 
to  treat  at  the  beginning  of  the  week, 
was  "Something  Missing."  I  walked 
about  the  campus  and  into  some  of  the 
buildings  in  the  period  preceding  the 
appointed  hour,  and  in  a  certain  build- 
ing where  there  were  advertisements 
placed  by  students,  I  saw  this  written, 
line  by  line  as  I  shall  repeat  the  words: 

For  Sale 

1929  Ford 

Good  body  and  fenders 
New  paint  job 


No  engine 
$20 

See   


And  I  had  the  idea  which  permitted 
me  to  treat  the  theme,  "Something 
Missing."  The  car  looked  all  right,  I 
suppose.  It  may  have  seemed  adequate 
from  the  exterior  appearance  to  fulfil 
its  purposes,  but  in  fact,  it  was  not. 
Something  was  missing,  and  that  some- 
thing was  the  chief  element,  the  moti- 
vating power. 

As  President  McKay  spoke  to  the  mis- 
sionaries of  the  Church  Friday  night,  I 
thanked  God  in  my  heart  that  over  a 
large  part  of  my  life  I  have  been  blessed 
to  serve  on  that  interesting  frontier 
where  the  Church  meets  the  world — 
in  the  missionary  cause.  I  rejoiced  last 
evening  as  he  talked  of  the  wonder- 
fully fine,  loyal,  intelligent  people  of 
integrity  in  the  world,  because  though 
I  seek  premier  position  in  few  things 
in  this  world,  I  would  not  want  to  be 
second  in  my  appreciation  of  the  won- 
derful people  there  are  who  are  not  of 
us  and  not  like  us,  but  who  are  good 
and  decent  and  honest  and  live  to  the 
light  they  have  received.  But  I  confess 
that  much  as  I  have  learned  to  love 
them,  and  as  honest  as  is  my  respect 
for  them  and  their  integrity,  I  have 
recognized  .  .  .  that  in  them  there  is 
something  missing,  and  time  and  again 
I  have  had  the  blessing,  with  many  of 
you,  of  attempting  to  bear  witness  to 
them  of  what  that  something  is. 

Why  do  they  miss  it?  Why  do  they 
not  enjoy  it?  Perhaps  because  they 
have  not  been  taught.  Perhaps  because 
they  have  a  seemingly  satisfactory  cir- 
cumstance in  life.  Perhaps  because 
though  they  may  sense  they  miss  some- 
thing, the  pressures  and  problems  and 
influences  of  their  lives  keep  them  from 
responding,  from  being  willing  to  pay 
the  price. 

I  read  with  some  of  you  some  time 
ago  in  an  eastern  newspaper  a  little 
article  which  had  no  prominent  place, 
but  which  represented  something  mean- 
ingful. It  was  the  story  of  a  fire  in  one 
of  the  clothing  districts  in  New  York 
City.    It  told  of  the  death  in  this  fire 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


77 


of  more  than  a  dozen  people — fifteen,  as 
I  recall,  and  one  sentence  from  the  latter 
part  of  the  short  article  was  impressive 
and  important  to  me.  It  said  that  these 
people  had  perished  within  easy  access 
of  an  escape  door,  but  had  not  used  it, 
rather  had  huddled  together  and  had 
died  in  the  middle  of  the  floor  because 
of  "smoke  and  fear."  I  have  wondered 
if  some  one  of  the  fifteen  or  so  who 
died  had  been  conscious  enough  of  the 
door,  if  he  had  known  of  it  and  realized 
its  importance  he  might  have  led  the 
others  through  it  to  life. 

And  I  have  thought  a  good  deal  more, 
as  perhaps  you  will  in  contemplation, 
about  what  may  have  happened  in  that 
clothing  factory.  Apparently  they  had 
been  sitting  within  easy  access  of  that 
door,  some  of  them,  at  least,  for  years, 
yet  had  paid  no  heed  to  it.  It  had  not 
apparently  meant  much  to  them,  and 
in  their  hour  of  extremity  they  were 
not  able  to  find  it. 

There  are  many  wonderful  people  in 
the  world  for  whom  I  have  personal 
respect  and  love,  and  whose  intelligence 
and  integrity  I  consider  at  least  equal 
to  our  own,  in  terms  of  what  they  are 
willing  to  do  for  what  they  believe. 
Yet  I  testify  with  all  my  heart  that 
there  is  something  here  for  the  finest  of 
them,  but  it  requires  a  consciousness 
that  not  all  is  well,  that  there  is  some- 
thing to  be  had  in  the  world  besides 
social  competence  or  other  of  the  earth- 
ly pursuits  which  satisfy  the  ambitions 
of  men. 

"Smoke  and  fear"  are  everywhere 
about  us.  I  read  again  this  morning,  at 
an  early  hour,  out  of  the  eighth  chapter 
of  First  Nephi,  and  then  in  the  subse- 
quent explanatory  chapter,  the  vision 
of  Lehi.  You  remember  the  chief  sym- 
bols— the  tree  representing  the  tree  of 
life,  or  the  love  of  God;  the  path  to  it; 
the  rod  by  which  one  holding  fast  could 
reach  it,  and  the  chasm;  the  large  and 
spacious  building  on  the  other  side;  the 
mists  of  darkness,  of  vapor,  rising  from 
the  river  of  filth  to  overcome  those  who 
would  try  to  reach  the  tree.  Do  you 
remember  these  words?  An  exceeding 
great  mist  of  darkness  came  up  and  ob- 
scured the  path,  while  across  it  the  great 
spacious  building  was  filled  with  people, 
old  and  young,  male  and  female,  their 
manner  of  dress  exceeding  fine,  and 
who  were  in  the  attitude  of  mocking 


and  pointing  their  fingers  toward  those 
who  had  come  and  were  partaking 
of  the  fruit.  Some  of  those  who  had 
tasted  it  were  ashamed  because  of  those 
who  were  scoffing  at  them,  and  they 
fell  away  into  forbidden  paths  and  were 
lost.  Note  these  words  in  the  twelfth 
chapter  of  First  Nephi:  ".  .  .  the  mists 
of  darkness  are  the  temptations  of  the 
devil,  which  blindeth  the  eyes,  and 
hardeneth  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men,  and  leadeth  them  away  into 
broad  roads,  that  they  perish  and  are 
lost. 

"And  the  large  and  spacious  building, 
which  thy  father  saw,  [said  the  angel 
to  Nephi],  is  vain  imaginations  and  the 
pride  of  the  children  of  men."  (1  Nephi 
12:17-18.) 

My  testimony  and  witness  and  the 
assurances  of  my  heart  are  that  though 
there  are  wonderfully  fine  people  all 
about  us,  with  whom  I  have  the  occa- 
sional privilege  of  association,  some  of 
whom  I  have  the  blessing  of  attempting 
to  teach,  and  to  many  of  whom  I  have 
the  privilege  of  bearing  witness,  and 
while  I  have  great  respect  for  what 
they  represent  and  are,  yet  there  is 
something  missing  in  them  if  they  have 
not  found  willingness  to  realize  that 
within  easy  access  is  a  door  leading  to 
life,  and  that  the  Savior  stands  there 
and  knocks,  but  they  must  open  and 
walk  through. 

I  have  been  deeply  blessed  by  the 
great  strong  statements  of  the  brethren 
this  conference  reaffirming  that  there 
is  something  in  the  gospel  and  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  which  will  bless  the 
lives  of  the  very  finest  of  men  who  do 
not  have  it,  and  who  therefore  have 
something  missing. 

To  conclude,  I  mention  that  such  a 
sermon  as  President  Richards  delivered 
this  morning  is  sometimes  greeted  by 
some  of  the  people  of  whom  I  have 
spoken,  with  murmurings  as  to  arro- 
gance and  smugness,  with  some  objec- 
tion on  the  basis  of  lack  of  goodwill, 
even  sometimes,  they  say,  lack  of  Chris- 
tianity, in  such  a  statement.  I  say,  and 
humbly,  that  though  the  prophets  were 
good  and  compassionate  men  who  loved 
brotherhood  and  goodwill,  yet  in  every 
instance  they  testified  that  there  is  a 
way,  that  men  must  follow  that  way 
and  obey  the  commandments  of  God. 
We  could  proceed  from  the  beginning 


78 

Sunday,  April  5 

to  the  end  of  the  sacred  records,  but  I 
choose  just  one  as  the  example,  and 
this,  section  52  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  where  the  Prophet,  under 
the  inspiration  of  God,  encouraging 
and  suggesting  compassion  and  love  and 
brotherliness,  and  prayer  and  humility 
and  every  other  virtue,  also  had  some- 
thing else  to  say: 

"Wherefore  he  that  prayeth,  whose 
spirit  is  contrite,  the  same  is  accepted 
of  me  if  he  obey  mine  ordinances. 

"He  that  speaketh,  whose  spirit  is 
contrite,  whose  language  is  meek  and 
edifieth,  the  same  is  of  God  if  he  obey 
mine  ordinances."  (D&C  52:15-16.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

I  thank  God  for  the  blessing  of  the 
gospel,  of  some  understanding  of  it,  and 
of  certain  witness  that  it  is  the  very 
plan  of  God,  and  that  they  who  speak 
for  God  are  his  servants  in  this  day,  as 
anciently,  which  I  say,  and  which  wit- 
ness I  bear,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  and 
friends:  Humbly,  gratefully,  and  prayer- 
fully I  approach  this  assignment  and 
face  this  great  audience  and  the  unseen 
audience  of  thousands  more.  Since  lis- 
tening to  the  inspiring  address  of  Presi- 
dent McKay  I  have  felt  impressed  to 
leave  in  my  pocket  a  manuscript  which 
I  had  intended  to  present  as  my  small 
part  of  this  conference. 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  about 
youth,  if  I  may,  the  theme  which  the 
President  has  so  impressively  empha- 
sized in  our  hearing  by  his  inspiring 
address.  With  all  my  heart  I  respond 
to  this  great  message  of  the  president, 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  And  I  hope  and  pray  that 
leaders  of  youth  everywhere  who  were 
fortunate  enough  to  hear  his  message, 
or  will  be  fortunate  enough  to  read  it, 
will  heed  the  counsel  given  therein. 

I  love  the  youth  of  the  Church  and 
of  this  great  country.  I  know  that  our 
future  as  a  nation,  as  a  people,  and  our 
future  as  a  Church  depends  very  largely 
upon  our  young  people. 

I  rejoice  as  I  look  into  the  faces  of 
the  leaders  of  youth  who  have  been 
called  to  represent  the  Church.  I  was 
thrilled  as  we  met  at  Camp  David  in 
the  mountains  north  of  Washington 
and  found  that  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks 
had  been  appointed  a  member  of  the 
Citizens'  Advisory  Committee  of  the 
President's  Council  on  Youth  Fitness, 


already  referred  to  by  President  McKay. 
We  have  a  group  of  great  leaders  in 
the  Church  who  have  been  assigned  to 
work  with  young  people,  and  I  think 
nowhere  in  all  the  world  will  you  find 
a  finer  youth  program  than  we  have 
right  here  in  the  Church. 

Everywhere  I  go  I  hear  praise  of  the 
youth  program  of  the  Mormon  Church, 
and  I  am  sure  that  the  praise  is  well 
merited.  I  have  thrilled  with  the  recent 
series  of  articles,  cards,  and  displays  on 
the  general  subject,  "Be  Honest  with 
Yourself."  It  is  our  appeal  to  the  young 
people  of  the  Church  to  adhere  strictly 
to  the  basic,  eternal  concepts  which 
make  for  the  good  life.  It  is  an  ap- 
peal for  them  to  live  clean,  upright 
lives,  to  adhere  to  those  basic  principles 
which  their  parents  and  their  grand- 
parents and  their  great- grandparents 
adhered  to,  and  upon  which  they 
builded  in  this  western  land. 

It  is  my  hope  and  prayer,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  those  of  us  who  have 
responsibility  for  leadership,  among  the 
youth  of  Zion  particularly,  will  have 
the  courage  and  the  good  common 
sense  to  speak  frankly  and  honestly 
with  our  young  people,  that  they  might 
know  what  the  Church  expects  of  them, 
that  they  might  know  what  is  best  for 
them  as  citizens  of  this  great  land,  and 
citizens  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Now,  what  is  it  that  we  seek  for  our 
young  people?  It  has  been  said  that 
they  are  the  greatest  group  of  young 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


79 


people  in  all  the  world.  I  am  sure  they 
are  the  greatest  in  opportunity  of  any 
group  of  young  people  anywhere.  No 
group  of  youth  has  ever  had  richer 
opportunities  than  our  young  people 
have  today.  What  do  we  seek  for 
them?  I  have  concluded  that  there  are 
four  essential  things  that  we  seek  for 
them. 

First  of  all,  we  want  them  to  be 
happy.  "Men  are,  that  they  might  have 
joy."  There  is  no  happiness  in  sin. 
Wickedness  never  was  happiness.  There 
are  no  shortcuts  to  happiness.  It  pays 
to  live  the  good  life.  It  pays  to  heed 
the  counsel  of  one's  faithful  parents 
and  the  teachers  of  youth.  It  pays  to 
heed  the  counsel  and  the  instruction 
given  by  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  If  our  young  people  would  be 
happy  then  they  must  adhere  to  the 
eternal,  basic  principles  and  concepts 
of  our  belief  and  follow  the  advice  given 
them  by  the  leadership  of  the  Church. 

Secondly,  we  want  them  to  be  suc- 
cessful in  their  chosen  field  of  life's 
work,  whatever  that  field  may  be  so 
long  as  it  is  honorable.  We  would  like 
to  see  them  excel.  The  Lord  wants 
them  to  excel,  and  he  will  help  them. 
I  am  convinced,  my  young  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  while  the  world  may 
not  live  our  standards,  I  am  confident 
in  my  own  heart  from  observation,  ex- 
perience, and  broad  contact  with  the 
world,  that  the  world  is  willing  to  pay 
for  the  services  of  young  Latter-day 
Saint  men  and  women  who  are  willing 
to  adhere  strictly  to  the  standards  and 
ideals  of  the  Church.  If  a  young  man 
and  woman  were  thinking  only  of 
getting  ahead  materially  or  financially 
in  their  chosen  field,  it  still  pays  to  live 
the  standards  of  Mormonism.  You 
have  everything  to  gain  and  nothing 
to  lose  by  adhering  strictly  to  the  stand- 
ards which  you  have  been  taught  from 
childhood,  and  which  the  Church  em- 
phasizes today. 

Thirdly,  we  hope  that  our  youth 
will  develop  a  love  for  freedom  and 
become  good  citizens  of  this  great  Chris- 
tian nation.  We  hope  that  our  youth 
will  develop  in  their  hearts  a  convic- 
tion, a  testimony,  that  this  is  not 
just  another  nation,  not  just  one  of  a 
family  of  nations,  but  a  nation  with  the 
responsibility  of  a  great  mission  to  per- 


form for  liberty-loving  people  every- 
where. We  hope  they  will  realize  that 
the  Constitution  of  this  land  was  estab- 
lished by  men  whom  the  God  of  heaven 
raised  up  unto  that  very  purpose.  Our 
young  people  have  a  responsibility  as 
citizens  of  this  land  to  see  to  it  that  the 
basic  concepts,  and  principles,  and 
ideals,  upon  which  this  great  Christian 
nation  has  been  established  are  pre- 
served, and  strengthened,  and  safe- 
guarded. 

Fourthly,  and  most  important  of  all 
and  really  all-inclusive,  we  hope  that 
the  youth  of  the  Church  will  live  so 
that  eventually  they  will  be  able  to  go 
to  the  house  of  the  Lord  with  a  choice 
companion,  and  receive  the  priceless 
blessings  which  are  in  store  for  the  faith- 
ful there.  And  we  hope  that  they  will 
then  continue  to  live  worthily  so  as  to 
eventually  be  exalted  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Yes,  we  want  them  to  have  a  good 
time.  We  want  them  to  be  happy.  We 
want  them  to  succeed  in  their  chosen 
fields.  We  want  them  to  become  good 
citizens.  We  want  them  to  become  good 
fathers  and  mothers.  We  want  them  to 
establish  happy  homes,  and  in  order 
to  do  that  they  must  live  good  lives. 
They  must  keep  themselves  clean  and 
pure. 

I  thrilled  as  I  listened  to  Sister 
Jessie  Evans  Smith  sing  the  solo  part 
of  that  lovely  song  this  afternoon:  "He 
that  hath  clean  hands  and  a  pure 
heart."  Our  young  people  must  lead 
clean  lives — clean  in  their  actions,  clean 
in  their  thoughts.  This  means  that 
they  cannot  indulge  promiscuously  in 
so-called  petting  and  necking.  It  means 
that  they  should  look  very  carefully  at 
a  common  practice  which  we  find  on 
American  dance  floors  today  of  close 
bodily  contact — cheek  to  cheek  dancing 
— which  I  think,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, has  in  it  real  danger. 

I  think  our  young  people  want  to 
know  this.  My  advice  to  them  would 
be  not  to  engage  in  these  promiscuous 
relationships,  these  close  and  intimate 
contacts,  including  cheek  to  cheek  danc- 
ing on  the  ballroom  floor,  whether  it 
be  at  a  Church  dance,  a  public  dance,  or 
wherever  it  might  be.  I  urge  that  they 
never  do  anything,  on  the  dance  floor 
or  off  the  dance  floor,  that  they  would 


80 

Sunday,  April  5 

be  ashamed  to  have  their  own  fathers 
and  mothers  witness. 

If  they  are  wise,  our  young  people 
will  reserve  for  the  marriage  covenant 
those  sweet  and  intimate  associations. 
They  will  reserve  such  intimacies  for 
their  companions  for  eternity.  Such  a 
course  is  pleasing  to  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  will  bring  peace  and  hap- 
piness— eternal  happiness. 

I  know  this  may  seem  strong  doctrine 
for  some.  I  stress  it  because  I  believe 
that  the  young  people  of  the  Church 
want  to  know.  I  believe  they  are  entitled 
to  know.   I  believe  it  is  best  for  them. 

In  all  your  relationships,  my  young 
friends,  when  in  doubt  then  do  not 
enter  into  the  act  or  practice.  In  fact, 
our  young  people  should  not  enter  into 
any  activity  if  there  is  any  doubt  as  to 
its  propriety.  If  you  are  living  right, 
my  young  brethren  and  sisters,  you 
will  have  the  prompting  of  the  Spirit 
which  will  tell  you  whether  it  is  right 
or  wrong.  Do  not  fail  to  heed  that 
prompting,  as  I  hope  you  will  heed  the 
counsel  of  your  own  parents  and  your 
leaders  in  the  auxiliaries. 

Just  one  thought  in  closing:  As  you 
resolve  in  your  hearts  to  live  the  stand- 
ards of  the  Church— and  you  cannot 
afford  to  do  otherwise,  from  a  material 
standpoint,  from  a  spiritual  standpoint, 
from  the  standpoint  of  getting  ahead  in 
the  world — I  hope  you  will  remember 
that  your  prescribed  standards  are  a  part 
of  a  great  body  of  truth — the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ — revealed  truth  from  heav- 
en. Please  remember  that  no  discovery 
of  the  future,  in  the  laboratory  or  any- 
where else,  no  other  truth  will  ever  be 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

in  conflict  with  the  teachings  of  the 
gospel.  Truth  is  always  consistent.  It 
is  never  in  conflict.  The  gospel  encom- 
passes all  truth.  When  doubts  come 
to  your  mind  because  of  instructions 
you  may  receive  in  the  classroom,  I 
urge  you  to  remember  that  time  is  al- 
ways on  the  side  of  truth,  and  Mormon- 
ism  is  truth. 

God  bless  you  and  protect  you  and 
guide  you,  and  give  you  the  courage  to 
live  the  gospel,  to  maintain  the  stand- 
ards of  the  Church,  so  that  the  blessings 
which  have  been  promised  to  the  faith- 
ful may  be  yours  eternally,  and  here  in 
mortality  also,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking  to  us.  The  Choir  and  Con- 
gregation will  now  sing,  "O  Say,  What 
Is  Truth?"  conducted  by  Assistant 
Chorister,  Jay  E.  Welch.  After  the 
singing,  Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 
will  speak  to  us. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  con- 
gregation sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say, 
What  Is  Truth?" 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
A.  Theodore  Tuttle. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


"The  man  that  hath  no  music  in 
himself,  nor  is  not  moved  with  concord 
of  sweet  sounds,  is  fit  for  treasons, 
stratagems  and  spoils.  The  motions  of 
his  spirit  are  dull  as  night,  and  his  af- 
fections dark  as  Erebus."  (Merchant  of 
Venice,  Act  V,  Sc.  1.)  Certainly  some 
of  the  loveliest,  and  I  am  sure  the 
sweetest,  sermons  that  we  have  heard 
in  this  conference  have  been  rendered 
by  this  choir,  and  the  choir  we  heard 
yesterday. 


Six  months  ago  I  was  the  president 
of  a  large  Ogden  stake  which,  I  was 
told,  would  be  divided  at  our  next  stake 
conference,  and  that  I  would  be  retired 
as  its  president.  Before  that  conference 
arrived,  I  came  to  general  conference, 
and  there  I  found  myself  suddenly  and 
unexpectedly  retreaded  instead  of  re- 
tired, and  I  have  traveled  several  thou- 
sand miles  on  those  treads  to  the  stakes 
of  Zion  to  keep  stake  conference  ap- 
pointments. I  thought  the  people  in  my 


ELDER  WILLIAM  ].  CRITCHLOW,  ]R. 


81 


stake  were  the  best  and  the  happiest 
people  in  the  world.  I  still  think  so, 
but  in  my  travels  I  have  found  thousands 
of  people  just  like  them.  I  found  them 
in  Phoenix,  in  Denver,  in  Salt  Lake,  and 
in  the  Big  Horn.  Wherever  I  have  gone 
I  have  found  these  people,  so  I  will 
have  to  revise  my  thinking  and  say  that 
the  South  Ogden  Stake  people  are  just 
some  of  the  finest  people  in  the  world. 

These  people  have  certain  character- 
istics in  common.  Friendliness  is  one 
of  them;  humility  is  surely  another;  the 
hospitality  of  their  leaders  is  another 
which  I  have  greatly  enjoyed.  But  the 
outstanding  characteristic,  it  seems  to 
me,  is  happiness.  Their  countenances 
literally  radiate  happiness.  They  seem 
to  have  left  all  of  their  worries  and 
troubles  at  home.  They  obviously  came 
to  conference  to  feast,  spiritually,  of 
course,  and  they  seem  to  delight  in  pay- 
ing their  devotions. 

They  should  be  happy.  They  should 
be  the  happiest  people  in  the  world. 
I  believe  they  are  the  happiest  people 
in  the  world  because  they  observe  our 
Father's  laws  of  happiness. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  loves  us.  I  love 
my  children  dearly,  but  his  love  for  us, 
his  spirit  children,  is  infinite,  divine. 

His  announcement  of  our  coming  to 
this  earth  made  his  children  extremely 
happy.  ".  .  .  the  morning  stars  sang 
together,  and  all  the  sons  of  God 
shouted  for  joy,"  (Job  38:7)  so  we  are 
told,  and  we  soon  learned  that,  "Adam 
fell  that  man  might  be;  and  men  are, 
that  they  might  have  joy."  (2  Nephi 
2:25.)  He  provided  for  our  happiness 
here  on  earth  by  giving  us  a  plan  for 
happiness.  We  call  it  the  "gospel 
plan."  It  comprises  a  number  of  laws, 
some  ordinances,  and  a  few  principles 
which  if  obeyed  will  bring  a  state  of 
blessedness  to  his  children.  And  bless- 
edness, my  brothers  and  sisters,  is  a 
deep,  refined  joy  or  happiness. 

An  example  of  his  laws  of  happiness 
is  his  law  of  health  which  we  call  the 
"Word  of  Wisdom." 

"And  all  saints  who  remember  to 
keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall 
have  health  in  their  naval,  and  marrow 
to  their  bones; . . . 

"And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary, . .  ." 
(D&C  89:18-20.) 


A  young  man  came  to  a  bishop  in  my 
stake  and  said,  "Bishop,  I  have  observed 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  all  the  days  of 
my  life,  yet  I  do  not  enjoy  good  health. 
Why  doesn't  the  Lord  respect  his  prom- 
ise?" 

This  wise  bishop  replied,  "Sit  down, 
we'll  read  the  law  together."  Then  as 
he  turned  the  pages  to  find  the  law,  he 
said,  "I  haven't  seen  you  in  priesthood 
meeting  this  year,  nor  have  I  observed 
you  in  Sacrament  meeting  for  a  long, 
long  time,  nor  have  I  had  your  name 
on  the  tithing  list  for  several  years." 

"I  know,  Bishop,"  the  young  man 
replied,  "I'm  not  faithful  in  all  things", 
but  I  have  faithfully  kept  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  and  I  have  not  received  the 
promised  blessing." 

"Here,"  said  the  bishop,  "is  the  law." 
He  read  it  slowly. 

"And  all  saints  who  remember  to 
keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments,  .  .  ." 
(Idem,  18.) 

No  need  to  read  farther!  In  kind- 
ness he  explained,  "Our  Heavenly  Father 
has  commanded  us  to  pay  tithing,  to  go 
to  Sacrament  and  to  priesthood  meet- 
ings. You  apparently  have  not  under- 
stood the  law  and,  therefore,  have  not 
fully  complied." 

Like  this  young  man,  others  may  not 
understand  these  laws  of  happiness. 
Ignorance  is  no  excuse  for  violating  civil 
laws;  perhaps  our  Heavenly  Father  may 
not  accept  it  as  an  excuse  for  violating 
his  laws. 

Another  law,  apparently  misunder- 
stood by  some  is  the  Sabbath  day  law. 

"Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep 
it  holy. 

"Six  days  shalt  thou  labour  and  do 
all  thy  work: 

"But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of 
the  Lord  thy  God:  .  .  ."  (Ex.  20:8-10.) 

".  .  .  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of 
prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon 
my  holy  day";  (D&C  59:9.) 

I  have  seen  our  members,  along  with 
other  people,  in  stores  purchasing  sup- 
plies and  food  on  Sunday.  May  I  ask, 
with  what  consistency  can  one  go  to  a 
store  on  Sunday  in  violation  of  this 
law,  purchase  food,  and  then  place  it 
on  a  table,  and  ask  Heavenly  Father  to 
bless  it? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


82 

Sunday,  April  5 

Another  example  is  his  financial  law — 
the  law  of  the  tithe. 

".  .  .  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith 
the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you 
the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you 
out  a  blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be 
room  enough  to  receive  it."  (Mai.  3:10.) 

".  .  .  for  he  that  is  tithed  shall  not 
be  burned  at  his  coming."  (D&C 
64:23.) 

Another  is  his  priesthood  law. 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this 
priesthood  receiveth  me,  .  .  . 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  re- 
ceiveth me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father  re- 
ceiveth my  Father's  kingdom;  therefore 
all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given 
unto  him."  (Ibid.,  84:  35-38.) 

Still  another  example  is  his  marriage 
law — celestial  marriage  law. 

"Therefore,  if  a  man  marry  him  a 
wife  in  the  world,  and  he  marry  her 
not  by  me  nor  by  my  word,  and  he  cove- 
nant with  her  so  long  as  he  is  in  the 
world  and  she  with  him,  their  covenant 
and  marriage  are  not  of  force  when  they 
are  dead,  and  when  they  are  out  of  the 
world;  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  132:15.) 

There  is  another  law,  which  I  heard 
President  McKay  quote  this  afternoon. 
I  call  it  the  "law  for  the  parents." 

".  .  .  inasmuch  as  parents  have  chil- 
dren .  .  .  that  teach  them  not  ...  re- 
pentance, faith  in  Christ,  .  .  .  baptism 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  .  .  . 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon 
the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion  "  (Ibid.,  68:25-26.) 

There  are  other  laws  designed  for  our 
happiness,  obedience  to  which  will 
bring  that  deep-refined  joy  which  we 
might  call  blessedness.  But  underlying 
all  of  these  laws  is  one  master  law, 
".  .  .  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  be- 
fore the  foundations  of  this  world,  upon 
which  all  blessings  are  predicated — 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that 
law  upon  which  it  is  predicated." 
(Ibid.,  130:20-21.) 

My  son  told  me  about  a  man  who 
declined  to  join  our  Church  because, 
he  said,  "Observance  of  the  laws  (re- 
cited above)  would  deprive  me  of  my 


Second  Day 

happiness.  I  like,"  he  continued,  "a 
cup  of  coffee  at  breakfast,  another  cup 
mid-morning  to  pick  me  up.  After 
dinner  in  the  evening  I  like  to  relax 
with  my  pipe  and  newspaper.  On  Sun- 
day I  like  to  get  out  under  blue  skies 
with  my  fishing  pole  in  summer,  and 
in  winter  I  enjoy  a  late,  lazy  breakfast 
with  the  Sunday  paper.  If  I  paid  a 
tithe  of  my  earnings  on  top  of  my  in- 
come tax,  doctor  bills,  instalments  on 
my  home  and  car — well,  Fm  afraid  I'd 
be  jailed  for  writing  checks  with  insuffi- 
cient funds." 

What  this  man  implied,  and  implied 
quite  effectively,  was  this:  I  have  no 
faith,  no  assurance  that  God  will  re- 
ward me  with  anything  better  than  a 
pipe  or  cup  of  coffee  for  keeping  his 
laws. 

".  .  .  O  ye  of  little  faith?"  (Luke 
12:28.) 

"And  in  nothing  doth  man  offend 
God,  or  against  none  is  his  wrath 
kindled,  save  those  who  confess  not 
his  hand  in  all  things,  and  obey  not 
his  commandments."  (D&C  59:21.) 

".  .  .  according  to  men's  faith,  it 
shall  be  done  unto  them."  (Ibid., 
52:20.) 

".  .  .  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to 
please  him:  .  .  ."  (Heb.  11:6.) 

Faith  is  the  first  principle  of  our  gos- 
pel. If  this  man  could  have  seen  the 
happy  countenances  of  thousands  of 
members  in  the  stakes  which  I  have 
visited  and  could  he  have  heard,  as  I 
have  heard,  the  testimonies  of  those 
men  and  wives  who  have  come  into 
Church  activity,  he  surely  would  have 
paused  before  he  spoke  so  facetiously. 

In  contrast  to  this  man's  lack  of  faith, 
let  me  tell  you  about  a  man  who  came 
one  evening  to  a  stake  president  and 
asked  for  baptism.  I  see  that  president 
in  this  congregation.  This  man  stood 
in  the  president's  home,  dressed  in  an 
army  officer's  uniform  of  high  rank. 
In  answer  to  the  president's  question, 
"What  missionaries  have  been  instruct- 
ing you?"  he  replied,  "None."  Then  he 
explained  that  he  supervised  LDS  men 
and  women  at  Hill  Air  Force  Base  and 
found  these  people  to  be  honest,  in- 
dustrious and  happy.  "My  wife  and 
I  are  religiously  inclined,  and  we  would 
like  to  be  not  only  one  with  them  but 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J 

also  one  of  them.    We  would  like  to 
be  baptized." 

I  had  an  opportunity  to  interview  this 
officer,  and  when  I  asked  him  if  he 
understood  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
he  replied,  "I  understand  the  tithing 
law,  and  I  will  observe  it.  Other  laws 
I  do  not  understand,  but  we  (wife  and 
I)  will  conform.  We  want  to  be  happy 
with  you  and  one  of  you."  He  had 
faith.  I  think  he  found  real  happi- 
ness. 

Now  let  me  tell  about  another  man 
who  lectured  brilliantly  in  Salt  Lake 
City  a  dozen  or  so  years  ago.  He  was 
a  silver-tongued  orator  who  reportedly 
had  lectured  in  nations  around  the 
globe  and  had  more  degrees  behind  his 
name  than  many  of  us  could  interpret. 

The  following  day  he  visited  in  Ogden 
and  was  taken  sightseeing  up  Ogden 
Canyon.  Returning,  he  relaxed  in  the 
office  of  the  president  of  the  Ogden 
Chamber  of  Commerce  where  he  re- 
marked, "You  Mormons  are  certainly 
a  friendly,  hospitable,  and  happy  peo- 
ple. Will  one  of  you  tell  me  something 
of  your  philosophy  of  life?"  His  finger 
pointed  to  me,  so  I  told  him  about  our 
concept  of  God,  why  we  were  here, 
where  we  come  from,  and  what  we  ex- 
pected hereafter.  I  also  quoted  our 
Articles  of  Faith.  When  I  had  finished, 
he  said  in  substance: 

"My  father  was  a  minister.  I,  too, 
am  a  graduate  of  a  school  of  divinity. 
But  what  I  learned  in  that  school,  or 
rather  what  I  did  not  learn,  and  what 
you  have  told  me  today  confuses  me. 
As  a  result  I  am  what  you  would  call  an 
agnostic." 

"Now,"  he  continued,  (and  this  is 
significant)  "if  what  you  believe — this 
philosophy  of  yours — makes  you  happy, 
then  stick  to  it  and  live  it.  I  tell  you 
there  is  no  happiness  in  unbelief.  Your 
philosophy  is  interesting.  It  could  be 
taught  in  colleges  along  with  other 
philosophies  and  people  would  read  it 
— if  you  would  disassociate  and  leave 
Joseph  Smith  out  of  it." 

My  brothers  and  sisters  this  gospel 
plan  which  he  called  "our  philosophy" 
is  not  a  philosophy.  It  is  truth.  And 
Joseph  Smith  can  no  more  be  "disas- 
sociated" than  can  this  earth  be  taken 
out  of  the  solar  system.  He  was  fore- 
ordained before  the  foundations  of  this 


CRITCHLOW,  JR.  83 

earth  to  head  this  the  greatest  of  all 
dispensations,  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times. 

I  wish  I  could  talk  to  that  doctor 
again.  I  would  tell  him  as  I  tell  you 
that  in  my  book  I  have  added  another 
Article  of  Faith  which  I  call  my  14th 
Article  of  Faith.  This  is  it:  (I'll  put  it 
in  the  singular,  but  if  you  accept  it, 
you  can  make  it  plural). 

"I  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God;  that  he  was  visited 
by  heavenly  messengers,  among  them 
Peter,  James,  John,  Elijah,  Moses,  and 
one  Moroni  who  directed  him  to  some 
hidden  plates  from  which  he  translated 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  also  believe  the 
Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to  him 
and  that  the  Son  instructed  him." 

Let  me  add  another  Article  of  Faith. 
Call  it  the  15th  if  you  like. 

"I  believe  that  David  O.  McKay  is  a 
prophet  of  God;  that  he  holds  all  of 
the  keys,  priesthood,  and  powers  form- 
erly held  by  all  of  the  ancient  prophets, 
which  were  later  conferred  upon  Joseph 
Smith  and  through  him  to  his  succes- 
sors down  to  President  David  O. 
McKay." 

When  Joseph  Smith  wrote  the  thir- 
teen Articles  of  Faith,  he  might  well 
have  added  another.  This  one  would 
sum  up  nicely  for  me  what  I  have 
hurriedly  tried  to  say  and  would  ac- 
count for  the  happiness  that  I  have 
discovered  in  the  countenances  of  our 
people.   I  quote  the  Prophet: 

"Happiness  is  the  object  and  design 
of  our  existence;  and  will  be  the  end 
thereof,  if  we  pursue  the  path  that 
leads  to  it;  .  .  .  "  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  255.) 

I  have  tried  to  outline  that  path — 
obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of 
the  gospel.  Let  the  Prophet  continue, 
".  .  .  he  never  has — He  never  will  in- 
stitute an  ordinance  or  give  a  com- 
mandment to  His  people  that  is  not 
calculated  in  its  nature  to  promote  that 
happiness  which  He  has  designed,  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  p.  256.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  think  the 
ultimate  in  happiness  will  be  ours  if 
and  when  we  attain  exaltation  in  his 
celestial  kingdom. 

I  hope  that  I  and  I  hope  that  you,  as 
we  travel  life's  highway,  may  enjoy  the 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  S 

happiness,  even  the  blessedness  that 
will  be  ours  if  we  obey  these  laws,  and 
may  we  later  earn  and  enjoy  the  ulti- 
mate in  blessedness — exaltation  in  his 
kingdom,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 


ELDER  A.  THE 

Of  the  First  Cou 

Once  upon  a  time,  so  the  fable  goes, 
there  was  a  wise  monarch  who  wanted 
to  teach  his  subjects  an  important  and 
vital  lesson.  He  said:  "Make  me  a 
man."  They  acquired  the  finest  artist 
in  the  kingdom  who  painted  the  pic- 
ture of  a  man  on  canvas.  They  took  it 
to  the  king,  but  he  was  displeased  and 
repeated:  "Make  me  a  man."  They 
tried  other  media,  sculpture  in  wood 
and  stone,  but  to  each  the  king  said: 
"Make  me  a  man."  Finally  they  caught 
the  vision  of  the  king's  instructions. 
They  found  a  man,  tattered,  degraded. 
They  bathed  him,  shaved  him,  dressed 
him,  taught  him,  and  presented  him  to 
the  king.  The  king  was  pleased  that 
they  had  learned  this  lesson  and  said 
these  words:  "Next  to  the  God  who 
creates  is  the  individual  who  saves  an- 
other." 

Brothers  and  sisters,  you  and  I  are 
engaged  in  and  dedicated  to  the  work  of 
saving  men's  souls.  In  view  of  what 
President  McKay  has  said  about  youth 
fitness,  I  would  like  to  address  my  re- 
marks to  that  vast  corps  of  teachers  in 
the  Church  who  are  saving  men's  souls, 
in  the  hope  that  instruction  might  im- 
prove in  the  Church.  For  if  one  teacher 
increases  the  level  of  his  competence 
and  ability,  that  class  will  improve;  and 
if  many  teachers  improve,  all  classes 
in  the  ward  will.  And  if  each  of  us  im- 
proves the  instruction,  the  whole 
Church  will  grow  in  strength  and  power 
and  will  be  blessed.  Remember  that 
no  class  can  rise  higher  than  its  teacher. 

The  second  reason  is,  that  I  would 
like  to  lead  all  of  us  to  the  source  of 
unfailing  inspiration,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  In  the  Savior's  teachings,  we 
find  the  finest  methods  used  that  are 
known  today.  We  see  his  objective  of 
changing  man's  behavior  clearly  set 
forth.    We  find  the  Savior  being  ac- 


DORE  TUTTLE 

cil  of  the  Seventy 

claimed  an  authority,  because  he  knew 
his  subject,  and  likewise  we  find  a 
knowledge  of  students  put  to  use  in  a 
beautiful  way. 

Teachers,  if  you  would  improve  your 
teaching,  use  and  adapt  illustrations 
and  examples  to  fit  the  present  knowl- 
edge and  experience  of  your  students. 
May  I  illustrate: 

We  find  in  the  teachings  of  the  Savior 
such  words  as  camels,  sheep,  salt,  light, 
candles,  fish,  leaven,  hens  and  chickens, 
lilies,  sparrows,  things  that  people 
knew  about  and  had  experience  with. 
He  likened  the  abstract  ideas  of  his 
teaching  to  these  concrete  things  that 
people  knew  about.  His  new  ideas  were 
related  to  known  facts. 

Secondly,  if  you  would  become  a 
better  teacher,  learn  to  answer  questions 
the  way  the  Savior  did.  He  gave  direct 
answers,  but  equally  as  often  he  would 
ask  another  question  of  his  hearers. 
You  recall  this  instance:  "Tell  us  there- 
fore, What  thinkest  thou?  .  .  . 

"But  Jesus  perceived  their  wickedness, 
and  said,  Why  tempt  ye  me,  ye  hypo- 
crites? 

"Shew  me  the  tribute  money.  And 
they  brought  unto  him  a  penny. 

"And  he  saith  unto  them,  Whose  is 
this  image  and  superscription? 

"They  say  unto  him,  Caesar's.  Then 
saith  he  unto  them,  Render  therefore 
unto  Caesar  the  things  which  are 
Caesar's;  and  unto  God  the  things  that 
are  God's."  (Matt.  22:17-21.) 

I  would  like  to  give  another  example 
which  shows  many  things  about  teach- 
ing. You  recall  this  instance:  "And  be- 
hold, a  certain  lawyer  stood  up,  and 
tempted  him,  saying,  Master,  what  shall 
I  do  to  inherit  eternal  life? 

"He  said  unto  him,  [note  the  tech- 
nique] What  is  written  in  the  law? 
how  readest  thou? 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


85 


"And  he  answering  said,  Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  strength,  and  with  all  thy  mind; 
and  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 

"And  he  said  unto  him,  Thou  hast 
answered  right:  this  do,  and  thou  shalt 
live. 

"But  he,  willing  to  justify  himself, 
said  unto  Jesus,  And  who  is  my  neigh- 
bour? 

"And  Jesus  answering  said:  A  cer- 
tain man  went  down  from  Jerusalem  to 
Jericho  and  fell  among  thieves  .  .  ." 
and  then  related  the  story  of  the  Good 
Samaritan.  (Luke  10:25  ff.) 

Now,  notice  the  teaching  technique. 
Teachers,  you  who  make  up  this  vast 
corps  of  231,000,  and  others,  for  we  are 
all  teachers  regardless  of  our  position, 
whether  it  be  president  or  other  officer — 
notice  what  the  Savior  said. 

".  .  .  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 
(Matt.  22:39.  Italics  added.) 

He  might  just  as  well  have  said,  "Love 
thy  neighbor  as  thy  wife  or  husband  or 
son  or  daughter  or  uncle  or  aunt,"  but 
he  gave  it  universal  application,  when 
he  said  "thyself,"  for  each  man  loves 
himself.  Each  man,  however,  does  not 
have  a  wife,  a  son  or  a  daughter,  and 
thus  would  not  have  been  included  in 
the  Master's  teaching. 

Here  we  find  in  the  teachings  of  the 
Master,  a  blending  of  all  of  the  tech- 
niques, methods,  ideas,  that  will  help 
us  to  be  effective  in  teaching  the  gospel 
and  in  achieving  the  lofty  ideals  that 
President  McKay  has  outlined  for  us  to 
achieve. 

Thirdly,  if  you  would  be  a  better 
teacher,  teach  by  the  Spirit.  You  recall 
that  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the 
Savior  said: 

"And  ye  are  to  be  taught  from  on 
high.  Sanctify  yourselves  and  ye  shall 


be  endowed  with  power,  that  ye  may 
give  even  as  I  have  spoken."  (D&G 
43:16.) 

That  is  the  thing  that  gives  strength 
and  power,  meaning  and  life,  to  our 
otherwise  weak  efforts. 

The  fourth  thing,  (and  I  will  mention 
it  only  briefly,  because  President  McKay 
dealt  with  this)  is  to  live  your  teachings. 
William  E.  Berrett,  who  is  vice- 
president  of  Brigham  Young  University, 
once  remarked  that  many  years  ago 
there  was  a  Danish  immigrant  who 
taught  his  class.  Though  he  spoke  in 
broken  English  his  life  was  such  that 
you  could  warm  your  hands  by  the 
flame  of  his  testimony. 

Remember,  teachers,  you  cannot  give 
away  that  which  you  do  not  possess. 

Study  the  life  of  the  Master.  You  do 
not  have  to  have  a  college  degree  to  be 
an  efficient  teacher.  But  you  do  have 
to  become  acquainted  with  the  life  and 
teachings  of  the  Master  to  be  an  effec- 
tive teacher  in  the  Church. 

Teachers  of  the  Church,  there  is  an 
eternal  extension  of  the  power  and  in- 
fluence of  a  good  teacher.  May  we  live 
so  that  we  may  teach  by  the  Spirit,  so 
that  the  youth  of  the  Church  might 
pattern  their  lives  after  the  life  of  the 
Master. 

I  am  grateful  for  his  life  and  mission. 
He  lives.  He  directs  the  brethren  who 
direct  this  Church.  This  is  my  humble 
witness,  and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  be  our  concluding  speaker,  and  he 
need  not  notice  the  clock. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  President  is  a  very  generous, 
wonderful  man. 

I  never  listen  to  the  President  of  the 
Church  except  my  mind  goes  back  to 
section  21  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants.  I  would  like  to  talk  about  that 


section  for  the  moments  that  are  given 
to  me. 

You  remember  that  this  section  was 
given  by  revelation  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  on  the  day  of  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church.    The  people  who 


86 

Sunday,  April  5 

were  there  assembled  had  come  out  of 
the  various  religions  of  the  day,  and 
were  not  accustomed  to  the  procedures 
and  principles  that  once  had  been 
known  to  the  Saints  and  now  were  being 
restored.  It,  therefore,  became  neces- 
sary that  the  Lord  announce  anew  the 
significance  of  having  at  the  head  of 
the  Church  a  prophet,  seer,  and  revela- 
tor. 

For  that  reason,  as  the  Lord  gave 
this  revelation,  he  made  it  known  to 
those  who  were  assembled  that  Joseph 
Smith  as  President  of  the  Church  was 
also  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator.  It 
was  a  great  lesson  to  the  Church  that 
now  again  the  leadership  of  the  Church 
should  be  vested  in  an  inspired  prophet 
of  God  and  that  this  prophet  should  be 
the  President  of  the  Church. 

Then  he  spoke  directly  to  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  and  he  said 
this: 

"Wherefore,  meaning  the  church, 
thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  words 
and  commandments  [that  is,  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church]  which  he  shall  give 
unto  you  as  he  receiveth  them,  walking 
in  all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth,  .  .  ."  (D&C 
21:4-5.) 

Is  not  that  a  remarkable  thing?  That 
is  the  manner  in  which  the  Lord  desig- 
nated the  President  of  the  Church  as 
his  mouthpiece  in  these,  the  last  days. 

He  gave  us  this  commandment  with 
a  marvelous  promise,  and  this  is  the 
promise: 

"For  by  doing  these  things  the  gates 
of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you; 
yea,  and  the  Lord  God  will  disperse  the 
powers  of  darkness  from  before  you, 
and  cause  the  heavens  to  shake  for  your 
good,  and  his  name's  glory."  (Idem,  6.) 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  We 
are  face  to  face  with  every  kind  of 
difficulty.  In  the  midst  of  these  times, 
would  you  like  to  have  the  assurance 
that  the  gates  of  hell  will  never  prevail 
against  you?  In  these  perilous  times, 
would  you  like  to  have  the  confidence 
that  the  very  heavens  will  shake  for 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

your  good?  You  may  have  these  bless- 
ings by  keeping  this  commandment. 

"Wherefore,  meaning  the  church, 
thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  words 
and  commandments,  [the  President  of 
the  Church],  which  he  shall  give  unto 
you  as  he  receiveth  them  walking  in 
all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth;  . . ."  (Idem,  4-5.) 

This  is  my  testimony  to  you  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  been  our  con- 
cluding speaker.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Phileon  B. 
Robinson,  formerly  President  of  the 
Finnish  Mission. 

The  singing,  as  you  know,  for  this 
afternoon  has  been  furnished  by  the 
members  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting,  and 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  again 
express  our  deep  appreciation  to  the 
members  and  officers  of  this  world- 
famous  organization.  Truly,  their  music 
has  been  an  inspiration  to  us  this  day, 
as  always.  They  are  practicing  two 
or  three  times  every  week — no  won- 
der their  singing  is  so  inspirational! 
Whenever  anybody  gives  his  or  her 
time  with  a  desire  to  bless  others,  the 
Lord  will  magnify  his  or  her  efforts 
and  a  whole  body  is  blessed  thereby. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Conference  will  convene  in  this  build- 
ing at  seven  o'clock  tonight. 

The  Choir  will  sing,  "Beautiful 
Savior,"  the  benediction  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Phileon  B.  Robinson,  and  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  ten 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "Beauti- 
ful Savior,"  after  which  the  benediction 
was  offered  by  Elder  Phileon  B.  Robin- 
son, formerly  president  of  the  Finnish 
Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m., 
Monday,  April  6th. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  Monday 
Morning,  April  6,  at  10:00  o'clock  a.m., 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  pre- 
siding and  conducting  the  services. 

The  choral  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir, 
Chester  W.  Hill,  Director.  Frank  W. 
Asper  was  at  the  organ  console. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

At  this,  the  beginning  of  the  sixth 
session  of  the  General  Conference  of 
the  Church,  at  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-ninth  Annual  Conference,  the 
Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflowing  and 
so  also,  we  are  informed,  there  are 
large-attendance,  over-flow  meetings  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  the  other  ad- 
joining buildings.  We  welcome  all  who 
are  listening  in  and  who  are  present 
at  these  meetings,  and  express  appre- 
ciation for  the  presence  of  officials  and 
educational  leaders  who  are  here,  many 
of  them,  occupying  the  front  seats. 

The  singing  for  this  session  and  for 
the  session  this  afternoon  will  be  fur- 
nished by  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  with 
Chester  W.  Hill  conducting,  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  appreciate 
the  presence  of  this  large  attendance  of 
young  people  from  the  College  at  Rex- 
burg,  Idaho. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Ricks  College  Choir  rendering,  "O 
Brother  Man,"  conducted  by  Chester 
W.  Hill.  The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Thomas  S.  Bingham, 
formerly  president  of  the  South  Aus- 
tralian Mission. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  as  the 
opening  number,   "O  Brother  Man." 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Bingham,  formerly 
president  of  the  South  Australian  Mis- 
sion offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  opening  prayer  was  just  offered 
by  Elder  Thomas  S.  Bingham,  recently 
released  as  president  of  the  South 
Australian  Mission. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now 
favor  us  with,  "The  Morning  Breaks," 
conducted  by  Chester  W.  Hill. 


"The  Morning  Breaks;  The  Shadows 
Flee"  was  sung  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Before  Joseph  Anderson,  clerk  of  the 
conference,  presents  some  vital  statistics 
and  a  brief  report  of  conditions,  I  think 
it  would  be  well  for  us  to  have  in  mind 
the  fact  that  one  hundred  and  twenty- 
nine  years  ago  this  morning  in  the 
house  of  Peter  Whitmer,  Sen.,  in  Fay- 
ette, Seneca  County,  New  York,  six 
men  bowed  in  solemn  prayer  to  their 
Heavenly  Father  and  proceeded  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  previous  command- 
ment to  organize  the  Church. 

Each  individual  present  was  confirmed 
a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  was  appointed 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  of  the 
Church. 

They  administered  the  Sacrament. 
They  reported  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  was  manifest  in  a  very  great  de- 
gree. Some  of  the  brethren  prophesied. 
All  praised  the  Lord  and  rejoiced  ex- 
ceedingly. 

There  were  others  present  on  that 
occasion  who  became  convinced  of  the 
truth  and  came  forward  shortly  after- 
wards and  were  received  into  the 
Church.  Among  these  were  the  Proph- 
et's own  father  and  mother,  who  were 
baptized  and  confirmed  members.  Also, 
Martin  Harris  came  forward  later.  He 
had  been  a  witness  to  the  plates  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  mortgaged  his 
farm  to  pay  for  the  printing  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon had  already  been  published  in 
1830. 

Last  Saturday  evening  the  third  ses- 
sion of  this  conference  was  held  in 
this  tabernacle,  and  in  167  Church 
buildings  from  coast  to  coast  and  in 
Canada.    In  attendance  at  the  meet- 


88 

Monday,  April  6 

ing  there  were  45,287  men  and  boys 
holding  the  priesthood.  Brother  Benja- 
min L.  Bowring,  president  of  the  Los 
Angeles  Temple,  and  President  Edward 
L.  Clissold,  president  of  Oahu  (Hawaii) 
Stake,  spoke  upon  the  great  obligation 
of  the  Church  to  give  opportunity  to 
spread  the  gospel  and  give  the  millions 
who  have  passed  beyond  the  opportunity 
to  join  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

We  shall  now  listen  to  the  vital  sta- 
tistical data  and  financial  expenditures 
of  the  Church. 

It  will  be  well  to  have  in  mind 
while  listening  to  this  report  that  only 
a  little  over  a  century  has  passed  since 
those  six  men  by  revelation  organized 
the  Church. 


Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  then  read  statistical  and 
financial  data: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD,  AND  BRANCH 

ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE 
OCTOBER  CONFERENCE,  1958 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Australian  Mission:  Weldon  V. 
Moore,  to  succeed  Zelph  Y.  Erekson. 

Canadian  Mission:  Thomas  S.  Mon- 
son,  to  succeed  J.  Earl  Lewis. 

Central  American  Mission:  Victor  C. 
Hancock,  to  succeed  Edgar  L.  Wagner. 

Central  Atlantic  States  Mission: 
George  Z.  Aposhian,  to  succeed  Henry 
A.  Smith. 

Eastern  States  Mission:  Gerald  G. 
Smith,  to  succeed  Theodore  C.  Jacobsen. 

New  England  Mission:  Edgar  B. 
Brossard,  to  succeed  Junius  M.  Jackson. 

Southern  States  Mission:  J.  Byron 
Ravsten,  to  succeed  Berkeley  L.  Bunker. 

Spanish- American  Mission:  Ralph  E. 
Brown,  to  succeed  Harold  I.  Bowman. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Cincinnati  Stake  organized  November 
23,  1958  from  a  part  of  the  Great  Lakes 
Mission. 

Granite  Park  Stake  organized  Febru- 
ary 22,  1959  by  division  of  South  Salt 
Lake  Stake. 

Lewiston  Stake  organized  October  19, 
1958  by  division  of  Spokane  Stake  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

a  part  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion. 

Norwalk  Stake  organized  October  26, 
1958  by  division  of  East  Long  Beach 
Stake. 

Parleys  Stake  organized  December  7, 

1958  by  division  of  Highland  Stake. 
Weber    Heights     Stake  organized 

November  30,  1958  by  division  of  South 
Ogden  Stake. 

West  Sharon  Stake  organized  Novem- 
ber 30,  1958  by  division  of  Sharon 
Stake. 

Winder  Stake  organized  January  25, 

1959  by  division  of  Mill  Creek  Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPPOINTED 

Bear  River  Stake:  Arthur  Ralph 
Michaelis,  to  succeed  Robert  J.  Potter. 

Cincinnati  Stake:  T.  Blair  Evans. 

East  Mesa  Stake:  Egbert  J.  Brown,  to 
succeed  Donald  Ellsworth. 

Ensign  Stake:  Arza  A.  Hinckley,  to 
succeed  D.  Edward  Judd. 

Granger  Stake:  Iris  B.  Morgan,  to 
succeed  William  Grant  Bangerter. 

Granite  Park  Stake:  Rolf  Christiansen. 

Highland  Stake:  Horace  B.  Richards, 
to  succeed  Herbert  K.  Whitworth. 

Lewiston  Stake:  Golden  Romney. 

Mill  Creek  Stake:  C.  Mark  Wright, 
to  succeed  M.  Elmer  Christensen. 

Minidoka  Stake:  Rodney  Alton  Han- 
sen, to  succeed  Davis  Green. 

Montpelier  Stake:  Sharon  Reed  Day- 
ton, to  succeed  Khalil  V.  Hansen. 

Mt.  Graham  Stake:  Boyce  H.  Lines, 
to  succeed  H.  Vearle  Payne. 

Norwalk  Stake:  Lewis  Milton  Jones. 

Orange  County  Stake:  Justin  B.  Lilly- 
white,  to  succeed  John  C.  Dalton. 

Parleys  Stake:  Walter  Jay  Eldredge, 

Jr. 

San  Luis  Stake:  LaVere  Norland 
Bagwell,  to  succeed  Leonard  M.  Haynie. 

South  Ogden  Stake:  Glenn  Lavell 
Massey,  to  succeed  William  J.  Critch- 
low,  Jr. 

South  Salt  Lake  Stake:  William 
Taylor  South,  to  succeed  Rolf  Christian- 
sen. 

Spokane  Stake:  Derald  Park  Romney, 
to  succeed  Albert  J.  Morgan. 

Wasatch  Stake:  J.  Harold  Call,  to 
succeed  H.  Clay  Cummings. 

Weber  Heights  Stake:  Keith  Wilson 
Wilcox. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 


89 


West  Sharon  Stake:  Clyde  Martin 
Lunceford. 

Wilford  Stake:  Finn  B.  Paulsen,  to 
succeed  George  Z.  Aposhian. 

Winder  Stake:  M.  Elmer  Christensen. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Alpine  Stake:  American  Fork  Tenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  American 
Fork  Third  Ward. 

Auckland  Stake:  Auckland  Sixth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Auckland 
Fifth  Ward. 

Ben  Lomond  Stake:  Ogden  Fifty- 
Ninth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Og- 
den Forty-Eighth  Ward. 

Chicago  Stake:  Chain-O-Lakes  Ward, 
formerly  Chain-O-Lakes  Branch. 

Cincinnati  Stake:  Cincinnati,  Dayton, 
Fairborn,  Hamilton,  Northern  Kentucky, 
and  Springfield  Wards,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Great  Lakes  Mission. 

Cottonwood  Stake:  South  Cottonwood 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
South  Cottonwood  Third  Ward. 

Covina  Stake:  El  Monte  Second  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  El  Monte  Ward. 

Dallas  Stake:  Grand  Prairie  Ward, 
formerly  Grand  Prairie  Branch. 

East  Phoenix  Stake:  Phoenix 
Eighteenth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Scottsdale  and  Phoenix  Fifteenth 
Wards;  Scottsdale  Second  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Scottsdale  Ward. 

East  Sharon  Stake:  Edgemont  Fourth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Edgemont 
First  Ward. 

Grand  Coulee  Stake:  Moses  Lake 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Moses  Lake  Second  Ward;  Moses  Lake 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Moses  Lake  Ward;  Royal  Ward,  former- 
ly Royal  Branch. 

Grand  Junction  Stake:  Grand  Junction 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Grand  Junction  First  and  Second 
Wards. 

Holladay  Stake:  Holladay  Fourteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Eleventh  Ward. 

Kearns  North  Stake:  Kearns  Thir- 
teenth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Kearns  Third  Ward;  Kearns  Fourteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Kearns 
Fourth  Ward. 

Layton  Stake:  Layton  Ninth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Layton  Fifth 
Ward;  Layton  Tenth  Ward,  formed  by 


division  of  Layton  Second  and  Seventh 
Wards. 

Los  Angeles  Stake:  Hollywood  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Adams 
and  Hollywood  Wards;  University 
(U.C.L.A.)  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Westwood,  Westwood  Second,  and 
other  wards. 

Mill  Creek  Stake:  Mill  Creek  Elev- 
enth Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mill 
Creek  Eighth  Ward;  Mill  Creek  Twelfth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mill  Creek 
First  Ward. 

Monument  Park  Stake:  Monument 
Park  Twelfth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Monument  Park  Ward. 

Mt.  Graham  Stake:  Safford  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Safford 
Ward. 

Murray  Stake:  Murray  Fifteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Murray 
Second  Ward. 

New  Orleans  Stake:  Pride  Ward, 
formerly  Pride  Branch. 

North  Box  Elder  Stake:  Brigham  City 
Twelfth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Brigham  City  Eighth  Ward;  Corinne 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Corinne  Ward. 

Pocatello  Stake:  College  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Pocatello  Sixth 
Ward. 

Redondo  Stake:  Hermosa  Beach 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Manhat- 
tan Beach  and  Redondo  Second  Wards. 

San  Antonio  Stake:  San  Antonio  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formed  by  division  of  San 
Antonio  Ward. 

San  Joaquin  Stake:  Lodi  Ward, 
formerly  Lodi  Branch. 

San  Jose  Stake:  San  Jose  Stake  Col- 
lege Ward,  formed  from  various  wards. 

San  Luis  Obispo  Stake:  Atascadero 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Paso  Robles 
Ward. 

Santa  Ana  Stake:  Santa  Ana  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Santa  Ana 
Ward. 

Santa  Barbara  Stake:  Santa  Barbara 
Second  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Santa  Barbara  Ward. 

Santa  Rosa  Stake:  Vacaville  Ward, 
formerly  Vacaville  Branch. 

Seattle  Stake:  Issaquah  Ward,  form- 
erly Issaquah  Branch. 

South  Box  Elder  Stake:  Willard  Sec- 
ond Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Wil- 
lard Ward. 


90 

Monday,  April  6 

South  Davis  Stake:  Bountiful  Seven- 
teenth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Bountiful  Eleventh  Ward. 

South  Idaho  Falls  Stake:  Idaho  Falls 
Twenty-Second  Ward,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Idaho  Falls  Eleventh  Ward. 

South  Los  Angeles  Stake:  Downey 
Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Downey  Second  Ward. 

South  Salt  Lake  Stake:  Burton  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Burton 
and  Southgate  Wards. 

Southern  Arizona  Stake:  Huachuca 
Ward,  formerly  Fry  Branch. 

Spokane  Stake:  Bonner's  Ferry  Ward, 
formerly  Bonner's  Ferry  Branch;  Spo- 
kane Sixth  Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Spokane  First  Ward. 

Tacoma  Stake:  Auburn  Ward,  form- 
erly Auburn  Branch;  Buckley  Ward, 
formerly  Buckley  Branch;  Port  Orchard 
Ward,  formerly  Port  Orchard  Branch. 

Utah  State  University  Stake:  Univer- 
sity Sixth  Ward,  formed  from  various 
wards. 

Washington  Stake:  Fairfax  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Alexandria  and 
Falls  Church  Wards;  Baltimore  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Baltimore 
Ward. 

West  Pocatello  Stake:  Pocatello 
Twenty-Sixth  Ward,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Pocatello  Ninth  and  Eighteenth 
Wards. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Cassia  Stake:  Unity  Ward,  formerly 
of  Burley  Stake. 

Cincinnati  Stake:  Cincinnati,  Dayton, 
Fairborn,  Hamilton,  Northern  Ken- 
tucky, and  Springfield  Wards;  Middle- 
town,  and  Georgetown  Branches, 
formerly  branches  in  the  Great  Lakes 
Mission. 

Granite  Park  Stake:  Central  Park, 
Eldredge,  Granite  Park,  Lee,  Miller,  and 
Southgate  Wards,  formerly  of  South 
Salt  Lake  Stake. 

Lewiston  Stake:  Lewiston,  Lewiston 
Second,  Moscow,  Moscow  Second,  and 
Pullman  Wards,  formerly  of  Spokane 
Stake;  Grangeville,  Orofino,  and  Ka- 
miah  Branches,  formerly  branches  in 
the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 

Norwalk  Stake:  Bellflower,  Bell- 
flower  Third,  Norwalk,  Norwalk  Sec- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

ond,  Third,  and  La  Mirada  Wards, 
formerly  of  East  Long  Beach  Stake. 

Parleys  Stake:  Parleys,  Parleys  Sec- 
ond, Third,  and  Fourth,  formerly  of 
Highland  Stake;  Parleys  Fifth,  formerly 
of  Monument  Park  West  Stake. 

San  Luis  Stake:  Del  Norte  Branch, 
formerly  a  branch  in  the  Western  States 
Mission. 

Weber  Heights  Stake:  Ogden  Thirty- 
Fourth,  Thirty-Seventh,  Fiftieth,  Fifty- 
Fifth,  South  Weber,  and  Uintah  Wards, 
formerly  of  South  Ogden  Stake. 

West  Sharon  Stake:  Lakeview,  Orem 
Fourteenth,  Fifteenth,  Provo  Seven- 
teenth, Eighteenth,  and  Twenty-First 
Wards,  formerly  of  Sharon  Stake. 

Winder  Stake:  Mill  Creek  Third, 
Fourth,  Fifth,  Seventh,  Ninth,  Tenth, 
and  Winder  Wards,  formerly  of  Mill 
Creek  Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAMES 
CHANGED 

Detroit  Stake:  East  Detroit  Branch, 
formerly  Selfridge  Field  Branch. 

East  Long  Beach  Stake:  Lakewood 
Third  Ward,  formerly  Bellflower  Sec- 
ond Ward. 

Parleys  Stake:  Parleys  Fifth  Ward, 
formerly  Monument  Park  Eighth  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Atlanta  Stake:  Warner  Robins  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Macon  Ward. 

Auckland  Stake:  Pukekohe  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Auckland  Third 
Ward. 

Cincinnati  Stake:  Georgetown  and 
Middletown  Branches,  formerly  branch- 
es in  the  Great  Lakes  Mission. 

Humboldt  Stake:  Lee  Branch,  former- 
ly dependent  upon  Elko  Ward. 

Las  Vegas  Stake:  Pahrump  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas  Third 
Ward. 

Lewiston  Stake:  Grangeville,  Oro- 
fino, and  Kamiah  Branches,  formerly 
branches  in  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission. 

New  Orleans  Stake:  Baker  Branch, 
formed  by  division  of  Baton  Rouge 
Ward. 

Oahu  Stake:  Church  College  of 
Hawaii  Branch,  formed  from  various 
wards. 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT 


91 


Reno  Stake:  Fernley  Branch,  formerly  Branch,     formerly    dependent  upon 

dependent  upon  Fallon  Ward.  Marysville  Ward. 

San  Luis  Stake:  Del  Norte  Branch, 

formerly  a   branch   in   the  Western  WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 

States  Mission.    ^  BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

San    Luis    Obispo    Stake:  Solvang 

Branch,  formed  by  division  of  Santa  Los  Angeles  Stake:   Adams  Ward, 

Maria  Ward.  membership  transferred  to  Hollywood 

Yellowstone  Stake:  West  Yellowstone  and  Hollywood  Second  Wards. 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  —  1958 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church: 

The  First  Presidency  issued  the  following  statement  concerning  the  condition  and 
operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1958.  The  statement  will  include  two  sections:  first, 
Statistical  Information;  and  second,  Financial  Data. 

/.  STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1958    273 

an  increase  of  22  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards    2,205 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    308 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  at  close  of  year   2,513 

an  increase  of  151  during  the  year 
Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year   47 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1958: 

In  the  Stakes    1,292,098 

In  the  Missions    263,701 

Total  Membership    1,555,799 

an  increase  of  67,485  during  the  year 

Church  Growth  during  1958: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions    52,885 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    36,135 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    33,330 

an  increase  of  3,201  in  convert  baptisms  over  the  preceding  year. 

Social  Statistics: 

(of  membership  in  the  Stakes,  1958) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    35.00 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    7.90 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.54 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  December  31,  1958: 

Deacons    68,838 

Teachers    56,016 

Priests    71,993 

Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood    196,847 

an  increase  of  10,555  during  the  year 
Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1958: 

Elders    146,031 

Seventies    21,804 

High  Priests    44,329 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood    212,164 

an  increase  of  9,176  during  the  year 

Grand  total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood   409,011 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 
Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (membership)    193,553 

an  increase  of  10,117  over  the  preceding  year 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (Preliminary  report  of 

average  attendance)    566,216 

an  increase  of  17,898  over  the  preceding  year 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (Enrollment)    178,766 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (Enrollment)    194,094 

Primary  (Children  Enrolled)    290,789 

an  increase  of  21,835  over  the  preceding  year 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  persons  assisted  from  Bishops'  Storehouses,  and 

those  assisted  from  Fast  Offerings  in  1958    87,419 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment  during  year    16,640 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan  during  year    231,443 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    10,882 

Genealogical  Society: 

Number  of  names  cleared  in  1958  for  the  performance  of 

ordinances  in  the  Temples   898,638 

an  increase  of  68,930  over  the  preceding  year 
Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  9  countries  during  the  year  were  equivalent 

to  142,575  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per  volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1958  in  the  12  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living    38,311 

For  the  dead    3,421,863 

Total  number  of  ordinances   3,460,174 

an  increase  of  212,874  over  the  preceding  year 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1958  cumulative  enrollments  in  the  Church  School  System 
(including  schools  in  the  Pacific) : 

College  Students   '..  22„822 

Elementary  and  High  School  Students   48,203 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1958  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions    5,485 

Number  of  other  missionaries  laboring  at  the  close  of  1958  in  full-time 

missions    829 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  Stakes  at  the  close  of  the  year   6,509 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year   12,823 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home  dur- 
ing 1958    2,760 

an  increase  of  242  over  the  preceding  year 


77.  EXPENDITURES  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  1958 
(From  Church  General  Funds  and  from  Other  Contributions) 

For  Missions  and  Missionary  Work    $13,034,893 

(not  including  an  estimated  $4,990,000  paid  by  members  and  friends 
for  support  of  missionaries,  and  not  including  value  of  the  time  given 
by  missionaries.) 

For  Ward  and  Stake  Buildings  and  Activities   28,313,005 

For  Construction  and  Operation  of  Temples    2,756,550 

For  Church  Schools    15,508,502 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  93 

For  Welfare   v   6,881,667 

(not  including  value  of  donated  labor) 

For  Buildings  and  Grounds  not  Included  Elsewhere    1,242,913 

For  Genealogical  Society    1,748,831 

For  Expenses  of  the  Auxiliary  General  Boards  and  of  the  Primary  Children's 

Hospital   664,625 

For  General  Administrative  Expenses  of  the  Church    2,264,940 

For  All  Other  Purposes    378,380 


Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee  read  the  following 
report: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
April  3,  1959 

President  David  O.  McKay  and 

Counselors, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  report  of  in- 
come and  expenditures  of  the  Corpora- 
tion of  the  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the 
year  1958.  Expenditures  are  well  within 
the  income  of  the  Church.  Expenses 
have  been  held  below  the  figures 
budgeted  and  we  have  been  assured 
that  the  Church  is  free  from  debt.  We 
commend  the  personnel  for  the  expert 
and  careful  manner  in  which  the  finan- 
cial records  are  maintained,  summar- 
ized, and  audited. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

Church  Auditing  Committee 
Orval  W.  Adams  and 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  has  just  read 
the  statistical  data,  financial  expendi- 


tures, etc.,  relating  to  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Elder 
Orval  W.  Adams  has  reported  for  the 
Church  Auditing  Committee. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  now  present  the 
General  Authorities,  the  General  Offi- 
cers, and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of 
the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of 
the  General  Conference. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

My  brothers  and  sisters: 

A  hundred  and  twenty-nine  years  ago, 
as  President  McKay  has  explained  to 
us,  six  men  performed  in  part  the  duties 
and  exercised  the  powers  and  authority 
which  we  who  are  here  today  are  called 
upon  to  exercise.  As  I  have  always  said 
on  such  occasions,  and  there  have  been 
several,  this  is  not  a  pro  forma  matter. 
You  members  of  the  Church  who  are 
here  not  only  represent  the  Church  but 
are,  for  the  purpose  of  the  sustaining 
of  these  officers,  the  Church.  This  is 
a  constituent  assembly.  I  urge  each 
and  every  man  and  woman  who  votes 
on  this  occasion  to  have  a  full  realiza- 
tion of  the  importance  of  the  ordinance, 
if  I  may  so  term  it,  which  we  are  now 
called  upon  to  perform.  May  the  Lord 
be  with  us. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Richard  L.  Evans 

Mark  E.  Petersen  George  Q.  Morris 

Henry  D.  Moyle  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Henry  D.  Taylor 

John  Longden  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr. 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 
Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Richard  L.  Evans 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  George  Q.  Morris 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Hugh  B.  Brown 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

LeGrand  Richards  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Alma  Sonne  Carl  W.  Buehner 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 

William  T.  Lawrence  A.  Lewis  Elggren 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Joseph  T.  Bentley,  General  Superintendent 
George  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


96 

Monday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  was  able 
to  see,  it  was  a  unanimous  vote  in  the 
affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters 
of  the  Church,  for  your  unanimous  vote. 
Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


We  have  already  had  quoted  the 
passage  of  scripture  with  which  I  desire 
to  start.  "But  blessed  are  your  eyes, 
for  they  see:  and  your  ears,  for  they 
hear."  (Matthew  13:16.)  And  Matthew 
further  tells  us  that  "The  light  of  the 
body  is  the  eye:  if  therefore  thine  eye 
be  single,  thy  whole  body  shall  be  full 
of  light. 

"But  if  thine  eye  be  evil,  thy  whole 
body  shall  be  full  of  darkness.  If  there- 
fore the  light  that  is  in  thee  be  dark- 
ness, how  great  is  that  darkness!"  (Ibid., 
6:22-23.) 

Matthew  further  says:  "Whosoever 
therefore  shall  break  one  of  these  least 
commandments,  and  shall  teach  men  so, 
he  shall  be  called  the  least  in  the  king- 
dom of  heaven:  but  whosoever  shall 
do  and  teach  them,  the  same  shall  be 
called  great  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven." 
(Ibid.,  5:19.) 

To  us  the  prophecy  of  Daniel  has 
great  significance,  as  was  pointed  out  by 
President  McKay  in  his  inspired  message 
to  the  world  yesterday.  Daniel  says, 
"And  in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall 
the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom, 
which  shall  never  be  destroyed:  and  the 
kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other  peo- 
ple, but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and 


consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it 
shall  stand  for  ever. 

".  .  .  and  the  dream  is  certain,  and 
the  interpretation  thereof  sure."  (Dan- 
iel 2:44-45.) 

The  world  needs  the  restored  Church 
and  kingdom  of  Jesus  Christ,  of  which 
David  spoke.  The  world  needs  the  help 
of  those  who  have  recognized  and  re- 
ceived the  gospel  of  the  kingdom.  The 
world  needs  their  inspiration  and  active 
participation  in  the  affairs  of  life.  We 
are  an  inspired  people.  That  I  know  as 
well  as  I  know  that  I  live.  We  are  re- 
sponsible for  the  proper  use  of  this  in- 
spiration. This  inspiration  is  not 
confined  to  our  spiritual  lives  but  carries 
over  into  all  temporal  responsibilities, 
and  included  therein  is  our  moral,  our 
civic,  our  political,  our  social,  our 
financial  responsibilities.  We  stand 
ready  to  exercise  this  divine  guidance 
together  with  the  power  of  our  priest- 
hood in  behalf  of  a  neighbor,  as  well  as 
in  our  own  behalf.  We  look  upon  the 
children  of  our  Heavenly  Father  as  our 
brothers  and  sisters,  no  matter  where 
they  live,  or  what  they  believe,  or  what 
their  ancestry  may  be.  We  cannot  ex- 
pect to  do  our  full  duty  as  we  are  in- 
spired to  do  unless  we  can  live  and  work 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


97 


in  an  environment  of  love,  of  peace, 
of  freedom — freedom  at  home  and 
throughout  the  world. 

Plato  has  put  into  words  that  the 
spirit  of  freedom  is  not  a  matter  of  laws 
and  constitutions.  "Only  he  is  free," 
Plato  says,  "who  realizes  the  divine 
order  within  himself,  the  true  standard 
by  which  a  man  can  steer  himself."  And 
I  say  true  standards,  ideals  that  lift  life 
up,  mark  the  way  of  true  progress.  Such 
ideals  followed  will  never  permit  our 
light  to  be  extinguished. 

Pericles  said:  "But  we  regard  him 
who  holds  aloof  from  public  affairs  as 
useless."  They  called  the  useless  man 
a  "private"  citizen,  idiotes  from  which 
our  word  idiot  comes.  The  citizens  of 
the  kingdom  of  God  should  set  the  pat- 
tern for  the  citizens  of  the  kingdoms  of 
men. 

A  reflective  Roman  traveling  in 
Greece  in  the  second  century,  A.D.  said, 
"None  ever  throve  under  democracy 
save  the  Athenians.  They  had  self- 
control  and  were  law-abiding."  That  is 
what  Athenian  education  aimed  at,  to 
produce  men  who  would  be  able  to 
maintain  a  self-governed  state  because 
they  were  themselves  self-governed, 
self-controlled,  self-reliant.  It  is  said 
of  the  Athenians,  "We  yield  to  none  in 
independence  of  spirit  and  complete  self- 
reliance." 

This  is  not  much  different  from  con- 
ditions found  in  the  Church  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time.  Brother  James  L. 
Barker,  in  his  history  of  the  early 
Church,  which  is  soon  to  be  printed, 
writes:  "In  the  Church  organized  by 
the  Savior  two  important  principles 
were  reconciled — divine  authority  and 
individual  liberty." 

The  Father  sent  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
into  the  world;  the  Son  chose  his  apos- 
tles, gave  them  authority,  and  they  chose 
the  presiding  elders,  bishops,  and  other 
local  officers,  always  seeking  the  guid- 
ance and  approval  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  there 
must  always  be  this  divine  leadership. 
Any  church  without  his  leadership  is 
not  his,  as  President  Stephen  L  Richards 
so  beautifully  demonstrated  yesterday. 
However,  the  Lord  has  always  safe- 
guarded human  liberty.  There  can  be 
no  progress  without  liberty.  The  great 
purpose  of  this  life  is  that  man  shall 


gain  experience  and  strength  in  freely 
making  his  own  choices.  Divine  guid- 
ance will  be  given,  but  man  must  be 
free  to  choose  obedience  or  disobedi- 
ence, otherwise  his  actions  have  no 
ethical  or  religious  value.  "God  has 
always  preserved  freedom  and  the 
powers  of  self-government  in  man," 
wrote  Irenaeus  when  he  wrote  against 
heresies  in  the  third  century. 

"The  Church  organization  carefully 
safeguarded  this  freedom,"  Brother 
Barker  continues.  "Nominations  were 
made  by  authority,"  just  as  they  have 
been  made  here  this  morning  in  our 
presence,  and  in  which  we  have  partici- 
pated, "but  the  members  of  the  Church 
were  given  the  right  to  accept  or  reject 
those  nominated.  The  Lord  has  never 
forced  the  acceptance  of  his  prophets. 
If  the  Lord  sends  a  prophet,  he  will  be 
a  prophet,  even  if  no  one  accepts  his 
message,  but  the  Lord  has  at  no  time 
forced  the  acceptance  of  a  prophet's 
message  on  the  people;  nor  has  he  forced 
a  prophet  on  the  people  as  president  of 
his  Church,  nor  a  bishop  on  his  con- 
gregation. 

"In  the  Church  he  organized,  the 
members  were  an  important  part  of  the 
organization:  they  were  free  and  respon- 
sible, because  the  Holy  Ghost  was  not 
given  to  their  leaders,  the  apostles, 
bishops,  and  elders,  alone,  but  to  every 
worthy  member  of  the  Church.  Both 
leaders  and  members  were  free  to  obey 
or  disobey  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit, 
and  both  were  equally  responsible  for 
their  individual  choices  and  the  conse- 
quences entailed  by  their  choices.  Thus 
each  member  of  the  Church  was  made, 
in  part,  responsible  for  the  government 
and  conduct  of  the  Church,"  says 
Brother  Barker. 

We  read  in  Acts  of  the  council  of 
Jerusalem:  "Then  pleased  it  the  apostles 
and  elders,  with  the  whole  church,  to 
send  chosen  men  of  their  own  company 
to  Antioch  .  .  ."  and  the  next  verse  is 
again  repeated,  "And  they  wrote  letters 
by  them  after  this  manner;  The  apostles 
and  elders  and  brethren.  .  .  ."  (Acts 
15:22-23.) 

What  is  our  position  today?  Take,  for 
example,  public  affairs.  I  read  recently 
a  comment  of  one  of  our  national 
statesmen,  Adlai  Stevenson,  "Our  condi- 
tion has  nothing  to  do  with  any  de- 


98 

Monday,  April  6 

ficiency  of  technology  or  resources.  It 
is  a  matter  of  people  forgetting  that 
political  freedom  can  be  sustained  only 
by  continuing  individual  commitment." 
As  he  continues:  "The  great  German 
poet  Goethe,  who  also  lived  through  a 
crisis  of  freedom,  said  to  his  generation, 
What  you  have  inherited  from  your 
fathers,  earn  over  again  for  yourselves 
or  it  will  not  be  yours.'  We  inherited 
freedom.  We  seem  unaware  that  it 
has  to  be  remade  and  re-earned  in  each 
generation  of  man." 

Stevenson  says,  "The  natural  govern- 
ment of  man  is  servitude.  Tyranny  is 
the  natural  pattern  of  government."  If 
that  be  true,  it  is  in  direct  opposition  to 
the  government  of  God.  "We  do  not 
slip  into  freedom  or  happiness.  It  is 
strenuously  sought  and  earned." 

When  will  we  realize  that  the  very 
power  and  success  of  US  society  demand 
more  not  less  individual  dedication  for 
its  citizenship.  It  is  interesting  to  note 
that  the  concern  of  our  leaders  today  is 
not  expressed  in  terms  of  security  but 
in  terms  of  survival.  What  else  but 
individual  dedication  can  stay  the  Soviet 
assault  on  free  civilization? 

In  an  oft-quoted  passage  from  Shake- 
speare there  is  a  warning  given  which 
we  might  well  heed: 

"There  is  a  tide  in  the  affairs  of  men 
Which,  taken  at  the  flood,  leads  on  to 
fortune; 

Omitted,  all  the  voyage  of  their  life 
Is  bound  in  shallows  and  in  miseries." 
(Julius  Caesar,  Act.  IV,  Sc.  3.) 
When  in  the  course  of  life  one  arrives 
at  a  fork  in  the  way,  a  decision  must 
be  made  and  a  course  selected  often 
results  in  a  choice  that  later  becomes 
completely  irrevocable.    President  Mc- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Kay  told  us  yesterday  of  the  231,000 
teachers  in  the  Church.  I  say  they 
stand  as  watchmen  at  the  crossroads 
to  direct  us  aright  in  the  course  we 
pursue.  Our  decisions,  once  executed, 
can  never  be  erased.  This  is  because 
such  selections  introduce  a  new  series 
of  conditions,  setting  in  motion  events 
which  cannot  later  be  recalled.  The 
good  done,  the  evil  accomplished,  are 
all  there.  It  is  a  faithful  axiom  that  he 
who  would  not  when  he  might,  shall 
not  when  he  would. 

Happy  is  he  who  profits  by  the  expe- 
riences of  the  past,  like  those  of  the 
Athenians  in  ancient  times  so  that  he 
may  make  right  decisions  in  the  present 
and  face  the  future  with  confidence, 
divinely  assured  that  his  hope  con- 
cerning things  to  come  will  have  full 
and  lasting  realizations.  Faith  in  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord,  and  obedience  to  his 
restored  gospel  assures  inevitably  this 
glorious  result — the  enjoyment  of  that 
peace  which  passeth  understanding  now 
as  in  all  prior  time. 

Let  us  all  live  in  all  that  we  do, 
guided  and  directed  by  the  inspiration 
which  comes  to  the  faithful  as  a  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  "But  blessed  are 
your  eyes,  for  they  see:  and  your  ears, 
for  they  hear."  (Matthew  13:16.) 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  pray 
humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith, 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will  now  speak 
to  us. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  pray  for  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  while  I  fulfil  this  assign- 
ment. Many  of  the  brethren  have 
already  given  my  talk  several  times, 
nevertheless  I  feel  that  it  is  an  important 
subject  and  can  stand  repetition. 

In  the  beginning  of  this  dispensation, 
on  September  21,  1823,  Moroni  appeared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.    In  that 


visit  he  quoted  the  prophecies  of 
Malachi: 

"For  behold,  the  day  cometh  that 
shall  burn  as  an  oven,  and  all  the 
proud,  yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly 
shall  burn  as  stubble;  for  they  that 
come  shall  burn  them,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them  neither 
root  nor  branch.  .  .  . 


ELDER  ELDI 

".  .  .  Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you 
the  Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah 
the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts 
of  the  children  the  promises  made  to 
the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  chil- 
dren shall  turn  to  their  fathers.  If  it 
were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be 
utterly  wasted  at  his  coming."  (Joseph 
Smith  2:37-39.) 

Thus  renewing  this  ancient  promise 
which  even  the  Jews  at  the  time  of 
Christ  were  looking  forward  to  receive, 
this  promise  was  fulfilled  123  years  ago 
on  April  3,  1836.  Following  a  Sacra- 
ment service  in  the  Kirtland  Temple, 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  re- 
tired behind  the  veil  of  the  temple 
and  after  fervent  prayer,  there  appeared 
to  them  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  who 
accepted  the  Kirtland  Temple  and  gave 
his  approval.  This  temple  had  just 
previously  been  dedicated.  (March  27, 
1836.)  Moses  appeared  and  gave  unto 
them  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel. 
Elijah  the  prophet  appeared  to  them 
and  bestowed  upon  them  the  keys  of 
the  sealing  power  of  the  priesthood. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  this 
about  the  mission  of  Elijah: 

"The  spirit,  power  and  calling  of 
Elijah  is,  that  ye  have  power  to  hold 
the  key  of  the  revelations,  ordinances, 
oracles,  powers  and  endowments  of  the 
fulness  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
and  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  the 
earth;  and  to  receive,  obtain,  and  per- 
form all  the  ordinances  belonging  to 
the  kingdom  of  God,  even  unto  the 
turning  of  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
unto  the  children,  and  the  hearts  of  the 
children  unto  the  fathers,  even  those 
who  are  in  heaven."  (Teachings  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  337.) 

Again  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said: 

"What  is  this  office  and  work  of 
Elijah?  It  is  one  of  the  greatest  and 
most  important  subjects  that  God  has 
revealed.  He  should  send  Elijah  to 
seal  the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  the 
fathers  to  the  children."  (Idem.) 

The  mission  of  Elijah  is  to  restore 
to  earth  the  power,  that  whatsoever 
is  sealed  on  earth  will  be  sealed  in 
heaven.  This  sealing  power  is  not 
alone  for  the  dead.  The  dead  cannot 
receive  these  blessings  unless  there  are 
those  living  who  have  performed  these 


;d  G.  SMITH  99 

same  sealing  ordinances  for  themselves, 
first — that  is,  a  wife  to  a  husband  and 
children  to  parents. 

Without  the  coming  of  Elijah  there 
would  be  no  need  for  temples,  there 
would  be  no  sealing  in  marriage  for 
time  and  eternity,  no  sealing  of  chil- 
dren to  parents,  no  need  for  genealogy. 
There  would  be  no  sealing  for  the  liv- 
ing or  the  dead.  This  is  not  for  the 
dead  alone,  it  is  for  the  living  first. 

I  testify  that  Elijah  did  come,  and 
others  have  testified  also,  and  we  have 
heard  other  testimonies  in  this  con- 
ference. In  addition  to  the  testimony 
of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery, 
and  others  currently,  we  have  factual 
evidence  that  Elijah  came.  One  year 
after  Elijah's  coming,  in  1837,  laws 
were  passed  in  Great  Britain  compelling 
the  preservation  of  duplicate  records  of 
the  dead.  In  the  400  years  preceding 
the  coming  of  Elijah,  there  were  cata- 
logued by  Mr.  T.  B.  Thompson  192 
British  family  histories.  In  just  one 
hundred  years  after  the  coming  of 
Elijah  in  1836,  there  were  1,879  British 
family  histories  published. 

In  addition  to  the  published  family 
histories,  about  the  only  family  record 
was  one  made  in  the  old  family  Bible, 
such  as  the  one  I  have  here.  This  hap- 
pens to  be  the  family  Bible  of  Hyrum 
Smith,  my  great-great-grandfather,  the 
brother  of  Joseph  Smith  who  was  mar- 
tyred in  Carthage.  In  the  middle  of 
these  old  Bibles  that  we  are  all  familiar 
with  is  a  page  for  births,  a  page  for 
deaths,  a  page  for  marriages;  and  that 
was  about  the  extent  of  the  family 
records  which  were  kept  at  that  time. 

In  1844,  just  eight  years  after  the 
coming  of  Elijah,  the  year  of  the 
martyrdom  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Hyrum 
Smith,  the  first  organization  for  the 
purpose  of  the  gathering  together  rec- 
ords of  the  dead,  and  compiling  gene- 
alogical records,  was  formed  in  the  city 
of  Boston,  Massachusetts — The  New 
England  Historical  and  Genealogical 
Society. 

In  1869  The  New  York  Genealogical 
and  Biographical  Society  was  organized. 
Since  then  literally  hundreds  of  gene- 
alogical organizations  have  been  organ- 
ized all  through  the  Atlantic  Coast  states 
and  spreading  all  over  Europe  and  the 
United  States. 


100 

Monday,  April  6 

Instead  of  gathering  the  records  in 
the  old-time  family  Bibles,  we  now  have 
special  charts.  Most  of  you  are  familiar 
with  the  pedigree  charts  which  we  now 
use.  In  the  old  family  Bible,  the  rec- 
ords that  were  given  were,  first,  a  record 
of  themselves  and  then  of  their  pos- 
terity. Today  we  make  a  record  of 
ourselves  and  then  our  ancestors,  going 
back  in  the  other  direction.  The  living 
come  first  in  this  work.  Many  have 
said  to  me,  and  I  hear  the  expression 
often,  "My  genealogy  is  all  done.  My 
mother  did  our  genealogy,"  or  "An  aunt 
did  our  genealogy,"  or  "Our  father  did 
our  genealogy."  But  I  do  not  think 
that  very  many  of  such  people,  if  they 
will  investigate  and  fill  the  charts  simi- 
lar to  this  one  I  have  here,  will  find 
that  all  of  their  genealogy  is  done.  If 
you  go  back  five  generations,  you  have 
thirty-two  different  lines,  and  in  the 
chart  I  just  showed,  going  back  seven 
generations,  you  will  have  128  different 
lines  to  follow.  You  only  need  to  go 
ten  generations  back,  and  you  get  1024 
different  lines  to  follow. 

Genealogy  is  not  just  a  chain  line.  I 
have  a  record  of  a  chain  line  that  starts 
with  the  Smith  family  and  goes  back, 
branching  off  from  the  Smith  family 
when  they  could  not  go  farther  with 
that  line.  It  goes  back  to  443  B.C.  Yet 
this  is  not  all  of  the  Smith  genealogy. 

This  is  your  responsibility,  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  make  sure  that  your  gene- 
alogy is  gathered.  I  see  the  effects  of 
this  spirit  of  Elijah  becoming  stronger 
all  the  time.  Often  it  is  just  one  mem- 
ber of  the  family  who  joins  the  Church. 
I  have  many  husbands  and  wives  come 
to  me,  each  one  being  the  only  member 
of  the  Church  in  his  immediate  family. 
I  believe  the  Lord  deliberately  designates 
and  sends  a  valiant  spirit  into  a  special 
family  in  a  special  location,  even  in 
far-off  missions,  for  the  explicit  pur- 
pose of  having  a  spirit  who  will  accept 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  hear  the 
voice  when  it  comes  to  him,  and  recog- 
nize it  as  true.  Then,  after  becoming 
a  member  of  the  Church,  he  will  gather 
the  records  that  the  promises  to  the 
fathers  may  be  fulfilled. 

Many  people  who  join  the  Church 
are  the  only  ones  in  their  family  in  the 
Church  and  are  especially  assigned  and 
their  special  mission  is  to  gather  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

genealogy  and  perform  the  sealing  bless- 
ings that  the  fathers  may  receive  the 
blessings  promised  in  the  promise  of 
Elijah.  I  am  reminded  of  a  Japanese 
boy,  a  convert  to  the  Church  here  in  the 
States,  who,  in  fulfilling  his  obligation 
in  the  military  service,  was  taken  to 
Japan.  During  his  leaves  of  absence,  on 
his  furloughs,  he  went  to  Hiroshima 
where  he  found  relatives  who  were  more 
than  willing  to  give  him  records  of  his 
genealogy,  pictures  of  family  members, 
and  records.  Some  were  insulted  to  think 
that  they  had  not  been  thought  of 
sooner,  and  they  are  continuing  to  send 
records  to  him.  He  unrolled  on  the  floor 
of  my  office  a  pedigree  chart  he  had 
made  up  which  stretched  clear  across  the 
room  and  was  still  not  all  unrolled — 
one  member  of  a  family  bringing  the 
blessings  to  the  fathers,  which  is  the 
promise  of  Elijah.  This  is  typical  of 
many  families. 

Do  not  leave  this  for  others  to  do. 
Each  has  his  own  responsibility.  Are 
you  back  in  the  horse  and  buggy  days, 
in  the  days  of  the  old  family  Bible 
where  you  just  gather  your  own  pos- 
terity records?  Or,  are  you  gathering 
together  pedigree  charts  wherein  for 
each  couple  on  the  pedigree  chart  you 
have  a  family  record  sheet?  Most  of 
you  are  familiar  with  these  sheets. 
And  if  you  are,  you  will  soon  have  a 
book  built  up  of  those  loose  sheets  as 
thick  as  this  old  family  Bible  with  just 
genealogy,  instead  of  just  one  or  two 
sheets  in  the  middle  of  a  book. 

I  believe  it  was  worth  all  of  the  ef- 
forts, and  the  costs,  and  the  sacrifices, 
to  build  the  Kirtland  Temple,  just  to 
have  a  place  where  the  keys  could  be 
restored,  if  for  no  other  reason,  if  we 
avail  ourselves  of  these  blessings.  How- 
ever, if  we  do  not  avail  ourselves  of 
these  blessings,  they  will  not  be  of 
much  value  to  us.  We  have  heard  the 
record  of  the  microfilms  that  are  avail- 
able to  us,  and  we  have  temples  avail- 
able. President  Bowring  reported  the 
other  night  that  there  were  2946  endow- 
ments in  one  day  in  the  Los  Angeles 
Temple;  over  three  million  endowments 
in  a  year  in  the  Church,  it  was  reported. 

These  temples  are  here,  and  these 
records  are  here  for  us  to  use,  brethren 
and  sisters.  Put  them  to  use  that  they 
may  be  of  value  to  us  and  that  we  may 
receive  the  blessings  and  that  our  an- 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


101 


cestors  too  may  receive  these  grand  and 
glorious  sealing  blessings  for  all  eter- 
nity, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Led 
by  Chester  W.  Hill,  Chorister  of  the 
Ricks  College  Choir,  the  Congregation 
will  now  join  in  singing,  "Come,  O 
Thou  King  of  Kings."   Elder  George  Q. 


Morris  will  speak  to  us  following  the 
singing. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  next 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Milton  R.  Hunter. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sin- 
cerely pray  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  direct  me  and  for  your  faith  to 
assist  to  that  end. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  the 
emphasis  placed  upon  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  in  this  conference.  And 
I  have  been  impressed  with  the  empha- 
sis that  has  been  laid  upon  the  prophecy 
of  Daniel  which  foretold  the  setting  up 
of  the  kingdom  of  God,  the  overcoming 
of  all  other  kingdoms,  and  that  this 
kingdom  was  to  stand  forever. 

There  is  a  striking  and  interesting 
difference  between  this  dispensation  and 
all  other  dispensations.  All  other  dis- 
pensations have  faded  away  in  a  com- 
paratively short  time  into  apostasy. 
This  is  the  only  dispensation  from  the 
beginning  that  is  not  to  follow  that 
pattern. 

When  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  came  to 
perform  his  glorious  mission  in  the 
world  and  established  his  Church,  he 
established  it  among  an  apostate  people 
who,  if  they  had  believed  the  teachings 
of  their  prophets,  would  have  received 
him  as  their  Messiah.  But  they  crucified 
him,  so  it  makes  a  great  difference  with 
us  in  our  attitude  and  in  our  objectives 
and  in  our  mission  in  the  world. 

The  statistics  given  this  morning 
were  interesting.  We  now  number 
over  a  million  and  a  half  people.  Some 
experts  have  estimated  the  future 
growth  of  the  Church,  and  they  esti- 
mate upon  recognized  principles  of  such 
estimations,  that  in  the  year  2000,  forty- 
one  years  from  now,  the  population  of 


the  Church  will  be  (I  must  refer  to 
the  figures  because  I  could  hardly  believe 
them)  six  million  people,  and  I  see 
no  reason  why  we  should  not  expect 
that  to  be  so. 

So  we  see  with  regard  to  our  mission 
to  the  world  and  with  regard  to  our 
relation  to  the  world,  not  a  fading  out 
gospel  dispensation,  but  a  gospel  dis- 
pensation that  is  to  build  and  build 
until  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  shall  come. 
He  shall  not  come  to  an  apostate  group 
of  Israel,  but  he  shall  come  to  the  mil- 
lions and  millions  of  Israel  who  shall 
be  gathered  into  his  Church  and  king- 
dom. This  Church  and  kingdom  has 
already  been  established  in  the  earth, 
and  this  is  that  kingdom.  And  testi- 
monies of  God's  servants  have  been 
borne  to  that  fact  for  one  hundred  and 
twenty-nine  years  and  will  continue  to 
be  borne  to  that  fact  to  the  end. 

We  say  that  in  love  and  consideration 
for  our  fellow  men,  but  it  is  our  duty 
to  declare  that  fact,  that  this  is  the  king- 
dom of  God  established  by  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  that  its  mission  is  to 
fill  the  earth  until  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
shall  come.  And  we  must  bear  that 
testimony,  and  we  must  bear  the  re- 
sponsibilities that  attach  to  that  testi- 
mony. Our  lives  and  all  that  we  have 
and  are  should  be  devoted  to  the  up- 
building of  this  great  kingdom  prepara- 
tory for  our  Lord  and  Savior  to  come 
and  reign  in  the  earth. 

Another  striking  thing  that  is  differ- 
ent in  this  dispensation  from  any  other 
dispensation,  is  that  there  is  involved 


102  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  6 

the  overcoming  of  the  powers  of  evil 
in  the  earth;  there  is  involved  the  over- 
coming and  the  ending  of  all  nations 
in  the  earth;  and  the  Lord  has  de- 
clared that  the  time  will  soon  come 
when  peace  will  be  taken  from  the 
earth,  and  the  devil  will  reign  in  his 
dominion  and  that  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  will  reign  among  his  Saints. 
(D&C  1:35.) 

So  we  are  living  in  that  great  dis- 
pensation when  the  culmination  of  all 
the  history  of  the  world  and  the  work 
of  God  among  the  children  of  men,  up 
to  the  time  or  the  millennium,  will  be 
brought  to  pass. 

These  great  changes  in  nations  can- 
not be  brought  to  pass  without  great 
political  upheaval,  without  wars  and 
calamities  that  the  scriptures  make  very 
plain  will  come. 

But  bear  in  mind  that  the  Lord  is 
directing  this  world.  We  are  frequent- 
ly reminded  that  conditions  have  been 
so  developed  in  the  powers  of  warfare 
that  an  accident  or  a  rash  move  could 
set  in  operation  those  powers  which 
might  destroy  our  civilization.  But  let 
us  bear  in  mind  that  this  world  is  in 
the  hands  of  God.  All  these  things  will 
happen  only  so  far  as  they  are  in  ac- 
cordance with  his  plans  and  his  pur- 
poses. And  let  us  not  waste  our  time 
and  our  energy  and  get  into  a  nervous 
condition  about  what  is  going  to  hap- 
pen to  the  world.  That  is  not  our 
sphere  of  responsibility.  The  Lord  will 
take  care  of  that.  It  remains  for  us  to 
be  devoted  to  the  upbuilding  of  his 
kingdom  and  facing  whatever  conditions 
may  come  to  us. 

I  should  like  to  read  what  the  Lord 
has  said  about  that  in  just  a  few  words, 
for  he  has  promised  that  this  land  that 
he  established  in  the  beginning  for  a 
special  purpose — that  Israel  should  ac- 
complish its  destiny  in  the  world — 
bringing  gospel  truth  to  the  world — 
is  a  special  land,  not  only  a  promised 
land  but  also  a  protected  land,  and  the 
Lord  will  protect  this  land  against 
the  enemies  of  righteousness.  It  is  for 
us  to  be  faithful  and  for  all  the  people 
of  this  land,  not  just  the  members  of 
this  Church,  to  be  true  to  its  Constitu- 
tion and  to  be  true  to  Jesus  Christ,  the 
God  of  this  land.  (Ether  2:12.)  Those 
are  the  things  that  we  need  to  worry 


Third  Day 

about.  Those  are  the  things  that  we 
need  to  center  our  hearts  upon.  The 
Lord  has  said  that  he  planned  this  land 
to  be  choice  above  all  other  lands  for 
the  blessings  to  come  to  Israel.  He  also 
said  in  exact  words:  "I  established  the 
Constitution  of  this  land,"  saying  that 
it  was  done  to  preserve  our  liberties. 
(D&C  101:80.) 

And  the  Lord  brought  about  the  dis- 
covery of  this  land  as  a  preliminary 
arrangement  for  the  establishment  of 
his  kingdom.  This  land  has  been  oc- 
cupied by  the  blood  of  Israel  from  the 
beginning,  hidden  by  thousands  of  miles 
of  ocean  from  any  other  group  and  has 
produced  its  scriptures  and  its  prophets 
and  has  borne  witness  to  the  divinity 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Now,  this 
land  will  be  protected,  and  the  cause 
of  God  will  be  protected.  It  is  for  us 
to  devote  ourselves  with  all  our  hearts 
to  the  building  up  of  this  kingdom  and 
preserve  peace  in  our  hearts  and  not 
give  way  to  the  weakening  influences 
that  would  come  from  any  other  atti- 
tude.  The  Lord  says: 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  angry  with  the 
wicked;  I  am  holding  my  Spirit  from  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

"I  have  sworn  in  my  wrath,  and 
decreed  wars  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  and  the  wicked  shall  slay  the 
wicked,  and  fear  shall  come  upon  every 
man; 

"And  the  saints  also  shall  hardly 
escape;  nevertheless,  I,  the  Lord,  am 
with  them,  and  will  come  down  in 
heaven  from  the  presence  of  my  Father 
and  consume  the  wicked  with  un- 
quenchable fire."  (Ibid.,  63:32-34.) 

The  Lord  has  also  declared  that  any 
powers  and  forces  that  fight  against 
Israel  and  against  Zion  shall  be  de- 
stroyed. 

"For  I,  the  Lord,  have  put  forth  my 
hand  to  exert  the  powers  of  heaven; 
ye  cannot  see  it  now,  yet  a  little  while 
and  ye  shall  see  it,  and  know  that  I 
am,  and  that  I  will  come  and  reign 
with  my  people."  (Ibid.,  84:119.) 

"Therefore,  let  your  hearts  be  com- 
forted concerning  Zion;  for  all  flesh 
is  in  mine  hands;  be  still  and  know  that 
I  am  God. 

"Zion  shall  not  be  moved  out  of  her 
place,  notwithstanding  her  children  are 
scattered."  (Ibid.,  101:16-17.) 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


103 


"For  I,  the  Lord,  rule  in  the  heavens 
above,  and  among  the  armies  of  the 
earth  "  (Ibid.,  60:4.) 

Let  us  with  all  our  hearts  build  up 
the  kingdom  of  God,  for  the  time  is 
coming  when  gross  wickedness  and 
corruption  will  be  swept  from  the 
earth.  God  has  restored  his  gospel.  It 
is  being  preached  to  all  the  world,  so 
that  as  many  as  possible  will  forsake 
wickedness  and  join  the  people  of  God 
and  become  the  seed  of  Israel,  the  sons 
of  Abraham,  the  followers  of  and  be- 
lievers in  Jesus  Christ  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  After  that,  those  others 
who  will  not  do  that  may  have  to  be 
swept  away  as  they  war  one  with  an- 
other and  fall  into  the  pits  that  they  dig 
for  others. 

I  bear  my  humble  witness  that  this 
Church  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Creator  and  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  that  he  has  set  it  up  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  a  prophet  of  the 
Living  God,  and  that  it  is  being  con- 


ducted by  the  servant  of  God,  David  O. 
McKay,  our  beloved  prophet  and  leader. 
And  I  call  the  attention  of  the  people 
of  the  world  and  the  Saints  to  the  first 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
which  is  a  formal  proclamation  to  all 
peoples  by  the  Lord  God  himself,  de- 
claring that  he  has  restored  the  gospel 
to  the  world  and  set  up  his  kingdom 
and  that  his  voice  calls  out  to  all  the 
world  to  repent  and  enter  into  that 
kingdom  and  listen  to  the  voice  of  his 
servants  and  disciples  whom  he  has 
raised  up  in  these  last  days. 

This  work  is  the  work  of  God.  I  bear 
this  humble  witness  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hum- 
bly pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  will 
direct  me  that  I  may  bear  my  testimony 
this  morning  along  with  the  testimonies 
borne  by  the  other  brethren. 

During  the  past  year  I  have  had  sev- 
eral most  unusual  experiences.  I  desire 
this  morning  to  recount  one  of  them. 
I  had  the  opportunity  to  go  to  the  Holy 
Land  last  July,  a  privilege  which  I  had 
desired  for  many  years.  My  son  was 
released  from  the  Swiss-Austrian  Mis- 
sion, having  completed  two  and  one-half 
years'  service.  I  joined  him  and  three 
other  outstanding  elders,  and  the  five 
of  us  went  to  the  places  made  famous 
and  sacred  through  the  life  of  the 
Master. 

We  were  met  at  the  airport  at  Tel 
Aviv  by  a  very  outstanding  man  named 
Joseph,  a  Jew  who  had  fled  from  Ger- 
many at  the  time  that  Hitler  killed  four 
or  five  million  of  those  unfortunate 
people.  Joseph  spoke  several  languages 
fluently.  He  was  a  very  cultured  per- 
son, a  historian  by  profession  before  he 
left  Germany.    He  was  familiar  with 


the  history  of  Palestine,  both  the  ec- 
clesiastical and  the  profane,  and  of 
course  he  told  us  about  numerous  his- 
torical events  in  a  very  pleasing  and 
faith-promoting  way. 

When  we  entered  the  Holy  City,  we 
were  psychologically  and  spiritually  pre- 
pared for  the  wonderful  experiences  that 
we  were  to  have  that  day  and  the  fol- 
lowing few  days  while  in  Israel.  I  said 
to  my  traveling  companions,  "I  have  a 
feeling  of  peace  and  contentment  such 
as  I  have  experienced  only  a  few  times 
in  my  life.  It  is  a  feeling  similar 
to  one  that  I  had  the  first  time  I  en- 
tered the  Sacred  Grove  or  when  I  go 
into  the  house  of  the  Lord." 

Each  of  these  young  men  said,  'We 
are  experiencing  a  similar  feeling." 

Joseph,  our  guide,  took  us  from  place 
to  place  in  Jerusalem  and  described 
many  of  the  important  events  that  had 
taken  place  in  ancient  times,  especially 
those  that  pertained  to  the  life  of  Jesus. 
My  traveling  companions  hummed  the 
tune,  "I  walked  today  where  Jesus 
walked."    We  were  thrilled  when  we 


104 

Monday,  April  6 

were  shown  the  traditional  place  where 
Christ  was  born  in  Bethlehem,  the  place 
in  Jerusalem  where  he  was  crucified, 
the  spot  where  he  was  buried  and 
where  he  later  rose  from  the  grave.  We 
were  reminded  that  he  met  Mary  Mag- 
dalene near  the  tomb  before  he  ascended 
to  heaven.  All  of  these  events  as  well 
as  numerous  other  important  events 
which  had  occurred  in  the  Holy  City 
were  explained  to  us  in  a  masterful  way. 

We  went  northward  to  Galilee.  There 
we  saw  many  marvelous  things  which 
recalled  to  our  memories  important 
events  connected  with  the  life  of  Christ. 
One  outstanding  experience  that  comes 
to  my  mind  vividly  at  this  moment 
occurred  in  Nazareth.  We  were  stand- 
ing in  front  of  what  is  known  as  "Mary's 
Well,"  the  place,  according  to  our 
guide,  where  Mary,  when  a  girl  went 
to  get  water  just  as  the  girls  do  in  that 
part  of  the  world  today.  During  the 
past  few  days  we  had  eagerly  listened 
to  Joseph's  accounts  of  the  events  that 
had  occurred  during  the  life  of  Jesus  of 
Nazareth.  He  had  told  these  stories 
with  great  faith. 

I  said  to  him,  "Joseph,  I  would  like 
to  ask  you  a  question."  As  I  think 
about  it,  it  appears,  I  realize,  that  I  per- 
haps was  a  little  unfair  in  taking  ad- 
vantage of  him  as  I  did. 

He  replied,  "If  I  can  answer  your 
question,  I  will  be  very  happy  to  do 
so. 

I  then  said,  "You  have  told  us  about 
the  miraculous  things  that  took  place 
at  the  birth  of  John  the  Baptist  and 
explained  these  things  with  much  faith. 
You  have  told  about  the  Angel  Gabriel's 
appearance  to  Mary,  announcing  the 
birth  of  Christ  and  declaring  that  he 
would  be  the  Son  of  God.  You  have 
told  about  the  birth  of  Jesus,  and  have 
showed  us  the  place  where  the  shep- 
herds were  feeding  their  flocks,  as  well 
as  the  place  where  Christ  was  born  in 
a  manger.  You  have  told  us  about  the 
new  star  that  appeared  at  his  birth  and 
about  the  wise  men  who  came  to  see 
him  soon  thereafter.  You  have  told  us 
about  Christ's  various  visits  to  the 
temple  from  the  time  he  was  twelve 
years  old  until  his  last  visit  there  short- 
ly before  his  crucifixion.  You  have  taken 
us  to  the  room  which  is  claimed  to  be 
the  one  in  which  Jesus  and  his  apostles 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

ate  the  Last  Supper.  You  maintained 
that  that  was  the  place  where  Christ 
had  appeared  to  the  apostles  the  day 
of  his  resurrection.  You  reminded  us 
that  the  doors  and  windows  were  shut 
and  locked,  and  yet  he  suddenly  stood 
in  their  midst.  Jesus  observed  that  the 
apostles  thought  that  he  was  a  spirit. 
Perceiving  their  thoughts,  he  said,  '.  .  . 
handle  me,  and  see;  for  a  spirit  hath 
not  flesh  and  bones,  as  ye  see  me  have.' 
(Luke  24:39.)  You  showed  us  Gol- 
gotha, the  Place  of  the  Skulls,  and 
said,  'There  is  where  Christ  was  cruci- 
fied.' And  then  you  told  us  that  Jesus 
had  been  taken  down  from  the  cross  and 
buried  in  Joseph  of  Arimathea's  tomb. 
You  pointed  out  a  spot  in  a  swale  to  the 
south  of  Golgotha  where  it  is  claimed 
that  Christ  was  buried.  Then  you  said 
that  an  angel  came  to  the  tomb  and 
rolled  the  stone  away  from  the  door 
and  that  Christ  was  resurrected  from  the 
dead  and  appeared  first  to  Mary  Mag- 
dalene. You  have  repeated  to  us  many 
passages  of  scripture  related  to  the  im- 
portance of  Christ's  ministry.  For  ex- 
ample, 'Jesus  saith  unto  her  [Mary], 
Touch  me  not  for  I  am  not  yet  ascended 
to  my  Father:  but  go  tell  my  brethren 
and  say  unto  them,  I  ascend  to  my 
Father,  and  your  Father;  and  to  my  God, 
and  your  God.'"  (John  20:17.)  This 
famous  statement  declares  the  universal 
brotherhood  of  man  and  the  Fatherhood 
of  God. 

"You  said  that  Jesus  did  ascend  into 
heaven,  and  then  you  declared  that 
later  he  descended  to  earth  to  visit  his 
apostles.  You  pointed  out  that  he  ap- 
peared to  several  groups  of  people  fol- 
lowing his  resurrection.  And  you  have 
shown  us  the  place  of  his  final  ascen- 
sion. 

"You  have  said  that  Christ  healed  the 
sick  and  raised  the  dead,  and  you  have 
shown  us  various  places  where  he  did 
those  miraculous  things.  You  have 
claimed  that  Christ  cast  out  devils,  re- 
stored sight  to  the  blind,  and  performed 
all  sorts  of  miracles.  You  showed  us 
where  he  stilled  the  waves  on  the  Sea 
of  Galilee,  and  where  he  walked  on  the 
waters  of  that  same  sea." 

Joseph  replied,  "Yes,  I  have  explained 
these  things  to  you." 

I  then  remarked,  "This  is  my  ques- 
tion: Do  you  actually  believe  that  Jesus 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


105 


is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
the  universal  Messiah,  your  Savior,  my 
Savior,  and  the  Savior  of  the  entire 
human  family?" 

He  looked  very  perplexed,  a  little 
dumbfounded.  When  he  regained  his 
composure  he  replied,  "I  suppose  that 
since  I  am  an  orthodox  Jew  that  in  giv- 
ing an  answer  to  that  question  I  am 
forced  to  say  that  I  do  not  accept  Jesus 
to  be  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  your  Savior  and  my  Savior.  The 
Jews  regard  Christ  as  a  great  prophet, 
one  of  the  greatest  that  has  ever  lived, 
but  they  do  not  accept  him  as  the  real 
Messiah.  We  are  looking  for  the  Mes- 
siah to  come." 

Then  I  said,  "Joseph,  I  want  to  bear 
witness  to  you  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  only  true 
and  living  Messiah.  All  the  things  you 
have  told  us  are  true — those  things  re- 
corded in  the  New  Testament  which  you 
have  accounted  with  much  faith.  Jesus 
Christ  broke  the  bands  of  death;  he  not 
only  rose  from  the  grave,  being  the  first 
fruits  of  the  resurrection,  but  he  also 
made  it  possible  for  all  human  beings, 
regardless  of  how  righteously  or  how 
wickedly  they  live,  to  rise  from  the  grave. 
And  furthermore,  he  gave  us  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  a  plan  of  salvation, 
promising  that  if  we  render  obedience 
to  it  and  remain  faithful  to  the  end,  we 
shall  come  back  into  his  presence  and 
dwell  with  the  Father  and  the  Son 
forever.  Jesus  did  ascend  into  heaven. 
He  now  sits  on  the  right  hand  of  the 
Father,  where  he  reigns  as  our  Lord, 
our  God,  our  Judge,  and  our  Savior." 

Curiously  he  asked:  "How  do  you 
know  that  all  of  these  things  are  true?" 

I  replied,  "First,  I  know  these  things 
are  true  through  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  Holy  Ghost  has  borne 
witness  to  my  heart  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world;  and  so 
I  am  as  certain  that  he  is  as  I  am  sure 
that  I  am  alive.  It  is  only  through  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  any  per- 
son can  declare  Jesus  to  be  the  Christ, 
and  that  we  can  know  that  he  is  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father. 

"Second,  following  Christ's  death  and 
resurrection,  he  appeared  to  another 
branch  of  Israel  over  in  America.  These 
people  were  called  the  Nephites.  Their 
ancestors  had  come  from  Jerusalem." 


And  then  I  described  the  great 
storm,  the  earthquakes,  the  intense 
darkness,  and  terrific  destruction  that 
took  place  on  the  western  hemisphere 
at  the  time  of  Christ's  crucifixion.  I 
then  told  him  about  the  Resurrected 
Lord's  appearance  to  the  inhabitants 
of  ancient  America,  explaining  that  he 
taught  them  the  gospel  and  established 
his  Church  among  the  Nephites.  I  also 
explained  that  for  nearly  two  hundred 
years  they  were  a  righteous  people,  de- 
veloping one  of  the  most  perfect  societies 
that  the  world  has  ever  known.  Finally, 
those  people  dropped  into  wickedness, 
and  then  the  Nephites  as  a  nation  were 
destroyed  by  the  Lamanites. 

And  I  further  explained:  "My  third 
reason  for  my  positive  conviction  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Messiah,  and 
Savior,  lies  in  the  fact  that  in  the  spring 
of  1820  he  appeared  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  a  boy  in  the  state  of 
New  York,  at  a  place  known  today  as 
the  Sacred  Grove.  He  was  accompanied 
on  this  glorious  visitation  by  the  Eter- 
nal Father.  There  he  told  the  boy  not 
to  join  any  existing  church,  but  that 
he  would  be  the  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  God  through  which  the  true 
Church  would  be  established  in  due 
time.  During  the  following  several 
years,  Joseph  Smith  was  taught  the  true 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  through  the  min- 
istration of  angels  and  through  visita- 
tions from  Jesus  Christ.  Acting  in 
accordance  with  divine  command,  this 
prophet  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  on  the  6th 
day  of  April,  1830.  The  Church  was 
declared  by  the  Lord  to  be  'the  only 
true  and  living  church  in  the  world 
with  which  he  was  well  pleased.'  That 
Church  was  endowed  with  all  the 
powers,  priesthood,  authority,  doctrines, 
and  ordinances  that  have  been  held 
by  any  and  all  dispensations  from 
Adam's  day  down  to  the  present  time. 
It  possesses  all  that  is  necessary  and 
requisite  for  the  salvation  and  eternal 
exaltation  of  the  human  family. 

"Furthermore,"  I  said,  "some  day 
members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
will  bring  the  gospel  to  your  people, 
and  then  God's  covenants  with  your 
ancient  prophets  will  all  be  fulfilled." 

Also,  I  told  him  that  when  the  Jews 
repent  and  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus 


106 

Monday,  April  6 

Christ,  which,  according  to  the  ancient 
prophets,  will  take  place  at  the  time 
of  the  fulness  of  the  Gentiles,  and  when 
they  look  not  for  another  Messiah  to 
come  but  accept  him  who  has  come  as 
their  Messiah,  then  God  will  remember 
the  covenants  made  with  their  ancestors. 
At  that  time  missionaries  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
having  the  true  gospel,  will  take  that 
gospel  to  the  Jews.  Many  of  them  will 
believe  and  accept  Jesus  as  the  Christ, 
the  Messiah,  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

In  all  sincerity,  Joseph  remarked: 
"These  are  the  most  marvelous  things 
I  have  ever  listened  to  in  my  life.  I 
would  like  to  learn  more."  He  asked 
for  a  copy  of  Orson  Hyde's  prayer  when 
he  dedicated  the  Holy  Land  for  the  re- 
turn of  the  Jews,  and  also  for  a  copy  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon. 

May  God  bless  us. 

I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  that  he  is  our  Re- 
deemer, our  Lord  and  our  God.  May 
we  keep  his  commandments  and  remain 
faithful  unto  the  end,  that  we  may 
come  back  into  his  holy  presence  I  pray 
in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

W.  Hill,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ.  I  wish  you  who  are  listening 
in  on  the  radio  could  see  this  beautiful 
Choir.  They  occupy  all  the  seats  usual- 
ly occupied  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
the  girls  all  dressed  in  white,  the  boys 
neatly  dressed  in  their  best.  They  make 
a  very  pleasing  appearance.  They 
have  traveled  a  long  distance  to  attend 
the  sessions  of  this  Conference.  I  am 
sure  if  you  could  see  them,  as  the 
Tabernacle  audience  now  views  them, 
you  would  exclaim  with  the  poet,  "How 
beautiful  is  youth,  How  bright  it  gleams, 
With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams. 
Book  of  beginnings,  story  without  end. 
Every  maid  a  heroine,  Every  man  a 
friend." 

We  do  appreciate  their  presence,  and 
in  your  behalf  express  gratitude  for 
their  inspirational  singing.  They  will 
now  sing,  in  conclusion,  "Greater  Love 
Hath  No  Man,"  conducted  by  Chester 
W.  Hill,  and  after  the  benediction  by 
Elder  Ellis  Vard  Christensen,  formerly 
president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission,  the 
general  session  of  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  The  singing  for  this  session  has 
been  furnished  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Chester 


Singing  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir, 
"Greater  Love  Hath  No  Man." 

Elder  Ellis  Vard  Christensen,  former- 
ly president  of  the  Tahitian  Mission, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  at 
2:00  p.m.,  Monday,  April  6th. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  meeting. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  was  present 
again  this  afternoon  and  furnished  the 
choral  music  for  this  session. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City  in  the  concluding  and 


seventh  session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-ninth  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church. 

These  services  are  also  being  broad- 
cast as  a  public  service  by  television 
and  radio  stations  throughout  the  West. 
The  names  of  these  have  already  been 
announced. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir, 
with  Chester  W.  Hill  conducting,  and 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Choir  singing,  "Lost  in  the  Night,"  with 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


107 


Chester  W.  Hill  conducting.  The  open- 
ing prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Moroni  M.  Larson,  formerly  president 
of  the  Western  Canadian  Mission.  The 
Choir  will  sing. 


president  of  the  Western  Canadian  Mis- 
sion. The  Ricks  College  Choir  will 
now  sing,  "Joseph,  the  Seer."  Elder 
Delbert  L.  Stapley  will  speak  following 
the  singing. 


The  opening  number  by  the  Ricks 
College  Choir  was  "Lost  In  The  Night." 

Elder  Moroni  M.  Larson,  formerly 
president  of  the  Western  Canadian  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  pronounced 
by  Elder  Moroni  M.  Larson,  formerly 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "Joseph, 
The  Seer." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak  to  us. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown. 


ELDER  DELBE 

Of  the  Council  of 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  indeed 
grateful  for  your  fellowship  as  we 
assemble  in  worship  in  this  great  con- 
ference of  the  Church  today.  I  am 
grateful  for  my  brethren  of  the  General 
Authorities,  for  the  messages  which 
they  have  given,  so  stimulating  to  our 
faith  and,  I  hope,  encouraging  to  all  of 
us  to  keep  more  faithfully  the  com- 
mandments of  our  Lord. 

In  the  midst  of  today's  worldly  en- 
ticements which  are  glamorous  but  de- 
ceptive, it  is  so  easy  to  become  careless 
and  digress  from  the  straight  and  nar- 
row way  that  leads  to  life  eternal.  The 
Savior  recognized  the  weakness  of  men 
to  transgress  and  sin  even  though  they 
possess  the  truth  and  knowledge  of  all 
gospel  ordinances  with  their  require- 
ments for  salvation. 

His  parable  of  the  Ten  Virgins  teaches 
a  profound  lesson  of  great  value  to  his 
disciples,  present  and  future.  Its  appli- 
cation reaches  into  the  homes  of  the 
Saints  and  forewarns  of  possible  un- 
preparedness  on  the  part  of  some  for 
the  great  day  of  his  coming.  In  this 
parable  the  Savior  likened  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  unto  ten  virgins,  which  took 
their  lamps,  and  went  forth  to  meet  the 
bridegroom.  As  members  of  the  Lord's 
kingdom,  they  were  entitled  to  the 
wedding  invitation.  However,  only  five 
were  wise  and  by  greater  vision  and 
good  works  had  prepared  themselves 


T  L.  STAPLEY 

xe  Twelve  Apostles 

acceptably  for  this  joyful  privilege  and 
were  permitted  entrance  to  the  wedding. 
The  five  foolish  virgins  were  unprepared 
and  unready,  having  procrastinated  ob- 
taining oil  for  their  lamps,  and  when 
they  belatedly  sought  admittance  to 
the  wedding,  the  Lord  replied,  "...  I 
know  you  not." 

"Watch  therefore,"  he  admonished, 
"for  ye  know  neither  the  day  nor  the 
hour  wherein  the  Son  of  man  cometh." 
(Matt.  25:1-13.) 

I  wonder,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
which  of  the  two  categories  we  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  fall  into?  Do  we 
and  our  families  belong  with  the  wise 
virgins  or  the  foolish?  Will  we  heed 
the  Savior's  warning  given  in  this 
parable  and  make  honest  and  wise 
preparation  for  entrance  into  his  king- 
dom? Preparation  for  eternal  glory 
must  go  progressively  forward  every  day 
of  our  lives  if  we  are  not  to  be  caught 
unprepared  when  earth  life  is  finished 
or  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  comes. 

As  descendants  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob  we  are  heirs  to  all  the  prom- 
ises pledged  to  them  and  their  posterity 
throughout  their  generations.  We  are 
bound  by  covenants  and  obligations  to 
God  even  as  our  forefathers  were. 

Perhaps  we  should  define  the  meaning 
and  significance  of  a  covenant.  In  a 
spiritual  application  a  covenant  is  a 
solemn,  binding  compact  between  God 


108  GENERAL  C 

Monday,  April  6 

and  man  whereby  man  agrees  to  keep 
God's  commandments  and  serve  him 
in  righteousness  and  in  truth  unto  the 
end.  The  gospel  covenants  and  obliga- 
tions bind  Church  members  to  obedience 
to  laws  and  principles  given  of  God 
which  lead  to  happiness,  love,  and 
eternal  joy.  A  covenant  then  is  an 
agreement  which  includes  obligations 
and  is  given  as  a  principle  with  prom- 
ise of  blessings  for  obedience. 

The  Lord  revealed  to  Moses  that  if 
the  Children  of  Israel  would  obey  his 
voice  and  keep  his  covenant,  they 
should  be  a  peculiar  treasure  unto  him 
above  all  people.  (Ex.  19:5.) 

Belonging  to  the  house  of  Israel,  we 
today  are  also  a  covenant  people  to 
whom  the  choice  promises  of  God  ap- 
ply. Blessings,  however,  are  predicated 
upon  faithfulness  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  Israel  was  bound 
by  covenants  and  obligations  which 
they  were  required  to  keep  by  sacrifice. 

Perhaps  in  Church  assemblies  today 
we  do  not  stress  sufficiently  the  impor- 
tance of  gospel  covenants  and  the  Saints' 
obligation  to  them.  It  is  our  duty 
to  learn  and  understand  the  sacred  and 
binding  nature  of  the  covenants  we  ac- 
cept at  baptism  and  the  covenants  and 
obligations  associated  with  all  other 
ordinances  of  the  gospel  found  along 
that  narrow  path  which  leads  to  life 
eternal. 

During  the  ministry  of  Moses,  the 
Lord  gave  the  Sabbath  as  a  perpetual 
covenant  to  Israel  throughout  their 
generations.  (Ibid.,  31:16.)  Faithful 
observance  of  the  Sabbath,  freeing  it  for 
a  day  of  worship  and  meditation,  is  as 
binding  upon  the  people  of  the  world 
now  as  it  was  at  the  time  given.  The 
Ten  Commandments  also  were  given  by 
way  of  a  covenant  and  have  always  been 
in  force  upon  the  peoples  of  the  world. 

When  the  Savior  came  among  men, 
he  established  a  new  covenant  and 
gave  a  new  testament,  even  the  sacrifice 
of  his  own  life  for  the  great  cause  of 
truth,  of  which  he  was  the  author. 
The  new  covenant  established  by  our 
Lord,  with  its  obligations,  was  main- 
tained for  a  brief  time  only.  Shortly 
after  the  death  of  the  apostles,  spiritual 
darkness  covered  the  earth.  It  was 
not  intended  that  this  spiritual  dark- 
ness should  continue  always  upon  the 


Third  Day 

earth.  The  Lord  promised  that  in  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times 
all  things  were  to  be  gathered  together 
in  Christ  in  preparation  for  his  glorious 
second  coming.  Today  is  the  Dispen- 
sation of  the  Fulness  of  Times  spoken 
of. 

Through  revelation  all  the  ordinances 
and  covenants  belonging  to  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  have  been  restored  in  this 
time  for  the  salvation,  happiness,  and 
eternal  life  of  God's  children. 

The  ordinance  of  baptism  into  the 
kingdom  of  God  is  a  binding  covenant 
upon  all  who  receive  that  ordinance. 
Early  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  in 
consequence  of  some  who  had  previously 
been  baptized  into  other  churches  and 
desired  to  unite  with  the  Restored 
Church  without  yielding  to  another 
baptism  because  they  considered  their 
former  baptism  efficacious,  the  Lord 
gave  a  revelation  which  made  clear  and 
unmistakable  the  course  which  they 
should  follow.   He  declared: 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  all  old 
covenants  have  I  caused  to  be  done 
away  in  this  thing;  and  this  is  a  new 
and  an  everlasting  covenant,  even  that 
which  was  from  the  beginning. 

"Wherefore,  although  a  man  should 
be  baptized  an  hundred  times,  it  avail- 
eth  him  nothing,  for  you  cannot  enter 
in  at  the  straight  gate  by  the  law  of 
Moses,  neither  by  your  dead  works." 
(D&C  22:1-2.) 

President  Brigham  Young  added  this 
significant  contribution  to  the  obligation 
associated  with  the  covenant  of  bap- 
tism: 

"All  Latter-day  Saints,"  said  Presi- 
dent Young,  "enter  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  when  they  enter  this 
Church.  The  covenant  to  cease  sus- 
taining, upholding  and  cherishing  the 
kingdom  of  the  Devil  and  the  kingdoms 
of  this  world.  They  enter  the  new 
and  everlasting  covenant  to  sustain  the 
Kingdom  of  God  and  no  other  king- 
dom. They  take  a  vow  of  the  most 
solemn  kind,  before  the  heavens  and 
earth,  and  that,  too,  upon  the  validity 
of  their  own  salvation,  that  they  will 
sustain  truth  and  righteousness  instead 
of  wickedness  and  falsehood,  and  build 
up  the  Kingdom  of  God,  instead  of  the 
kingdoms  of  this  world."  (Discourses 
of  Brigham  Young,  p.  160.) 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


109 


These  admonitions  and  instructions 
emphasize  the  sacred  and  binding  na- 
ture of  the  covenant  which  baptism 
into  the  Church  places  upon  every  soul 
receiving  this  gospel  ordinance. 

The  ordinance  of  the  Sacrament  is 
also  a  sacred  covenant.  It  reminds  us  of 
the  great  sacrifice  of  the  Son  of  God 
upon  the  cross,  which  makes  possible 
our  redemption,  salvation,  and,  if 
worthy,  exaltation  and  eternal  glory. 
It  also  gives  us  the  opportunity  to  re- 
new and  keep  in  force  the  sacred  cove- 
nants and  obligations  which  we  have 
entered  into  with  our  God. 

President  David  O.  McKay  made  this 
choice  statement  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  regarding  the  blessings  of  this 
ordinance: 

"What  a  strength  there  would  be  in 
this  Church  if  next  Sunday  every  mem- 
ber who  partakes  of  the  Sacrament 
would  sense  the  significance  of  the  cove- 
nant made  in  that  ordinance — every 
member  willing  to  take  upon  him  the 
name  of  the  Son,  a  true  Christian, 
proud  of  it,  and  always  remember  him, 
in  the  home,  in  business,  in  society, 
always  remember  him  and  keep  his 
commandments  that  he  has  given  them. 
How  comprehensive  that  blessing  and 
how  significant  the  covenant  we  make 
each  Sabbath  day." 

This  admonition,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  we  should  always  remember  as 
a  part  of  the  preparation  necessary  in 
meeting  the  requirements  of  the  cove- 
nant of  the  Sacrament. 

The  Holy  Priesthood  is  accepted  by 
an  oath  and  covenant  and  is  binding 
upon  those  who  receive  it.  They  obli- 
gate themselves  to  keep  faithfully  all 
the  commandments  of  God  and  to 
magnify  their  callings  by  honoring  and 
exercising  the  priesthood  in  righteous- 
ness for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of 
mankind. 

Like  the  Children  of  Israel  of  old  we, 
today,  cannot  meet  the  obligations  of 
gospel  covenants  without  sacrificing  the 
things  of  this  world — our  personal  am- 
bitions, our  time  and  means  and,  if 
need  be,  membership  in  every  organiza- 
tion not  established  for  the  building  up 
of  Zion. 

The  Lord  has  promised  that  those 
who  faithfully  keep  the  oath  and  cove- 
nant of  the  Holy  Priesthood  will  be 


given  all  that  he  has.  And  what  does 
this  promise  mean?  President  Wilford 
Woodruff  made  this  explanation: 

"Who  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  can 
apprehend  such  language  as  this?  Who 
can  comprehend  that,  by  obeying  the 
celestial  law,  all  that  our  Father  has 
shall  be  given  unto  us — exaltations, 
thrones,  principalities,  power,  domin- 
ion " 

And  then  again,  President  Woodruff 
asks:  ".  .  .  Who  can  comprehend  it?" 
(Discourses  of  Wilford  Woodruff,  p. 
79.) 

Can  we,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
comprehend  the  significance  and  far- 
reaching  benefits  of  this  promise?  To 
realize  fully  these  expectations,  the  Lord 
has  revealed  another  covenant,  the  new 
and  everlasting  covenant  of  marriage, 
which  binds  together  by  the  authority 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  man  and  wife 
for  time  and  for  all  eternity.  Children 
born  to  them,  or  later  sealed  to  them, 
become  theirs,  if  true  and  faithful, 
throughout  all  the  eternities  of  time. 
What  a  glorious  covenant  this  is,  so 
full  of  blessings  and  promise  of  rich 
rewards. 

Perhaps  the  sacredness  and  far-reach- 
ing effects  of  all  these  covenants  and 
obligations  and  others  unmentioned  can 
be  summed  up  in  the  words  of  two  past 
Presidents  of  the  Church. 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  taught: 

"  'We  are  under  sacred  covenants  to 
stand  by  the  truth.'  .  .  .  We  have  re- 
ceived the  light,  the  knowledge  of  God; 
we  are  under  sacred  covenants  to  stand 
by  the  truth,  and  by  one  another  in 
righteousness.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  p.  81.) 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  emphasized 
with  forceful  language  the  obligation 
of  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  covenants 
they  have  received  with  this  counsel  and 
admonition: 

"Among  the  covenants  are  these,  that 
they  will  cease  from  sin  and  from  all 
unrighteousness;  that  they  will  work 
righteousness  in  their  lives;  that  they 
will  abstain  from  the  use  of  intoxicants, 
from  the  use  of  strong  drinks  of  every 
description,  from  the  use  of  tobacco, 
from  every  vile  thing,  and  from  ex- 
tremes in  every  phase  of  life;  that  they 
will  not  take  the  name  of  God  in  vain; 
that  they  will  not  bear  false  witness 
against  their  neighbor;  that  they  will 


110 

Monday,  April  6 

seek  to  love  their  neighbors  as  them- 
selves; to  carry  out  the  golden  rule  of 
the  Lord,  do  unto  others  as  they  would 
that  others  should  do  unto  them." 
(Gospel  Doctrine,  p.  107.) 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  the 
Lord  has  not  left  us  without  instruction 
concerning  how  the  covenants  and  ob- 
ligations of  the  gospel  are  to  be  main- 
tained in  our  lives.  In  the  revelation 
setting  forth  the  oath  and  covenant 
which  belongs  to  the  Holy  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  the  Lord  gave  this  compre- 
hensive warning  and  advice: 

"And  I  now  give  unto  you  a  com- 
mandment to  beware  concerning  your- 
selves, to  give  diligent  heed  to  the  words 
of  eternal  life. 

"For  you  shall  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God."  (D&C  84:43-44.) 

If  we  prayerfully  meditate  this  in- 
struction, we  can  understand  why  it  is 
profitable  for  each  of  us  to  be  more 
careful  henceforth  in  observing  and 
keeping  our  vows  with  the  Lord. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  we  kept 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

our  first  estate  in  the  pre-existent  world; 
therefore,  how  tragic  it  would  be  if  in 
this  interlude  of  mortality,  which  is  such 
a  small  part  of  our  eternal  existence, 
we  should  forget  our  heritage  and  trans- 
gress the  commandments  of  God  and 
thus  lose  all  the  credits  acquired  there. 

Our  safety  and  happiness  lie  in  keep- 
ing fully  the  commandments  of  God 
and  maintaining,  through  good  works, 
all  obligations  connected  with  the  cove- 
nants entered  into  with  him  to  the 
end  of  our  days. 

I  pray  God  will  give  us  the  strength, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  do  so,  for 
our  joy  and  happiness,  which  I  ask 
humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the 
same  Council  will  now  address  us. 
Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  will  follow. 


ELDER  HUC 

Of  the  Council  of 

As  we  are  still  enjoying  the  afterglow 
of  Easter,  the  emphasis  throughout  this 
great  conference  has  been  on  the  di- 
vinity of  Christ.  From  the  profound 
and  scholarly  opening  address  of  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Saturday 
morning,  through  all  the  sessions  of  the 
conference,  all  have  borne  witness  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Liv- 
ing God.  I  cannot  hope  to  add  any- 
thing to  what  has  been  said  unless,  per- 
haps, emphasis  by  repetition. 

Little  is  known  of  the  details  of  the 
Master's  sojourn  on  the  earth  except 
during  those  three  transcendent  years 
of  his  ministry,  the  most  eventful  years 
of  history.  If  we  are  to  get  a  proper 
concept  of  the  moral  and  spiritual  sig- 
nificance and  splendor  of  his  unique  life 
— from  Bethlehem  to  Bethany — we  must 
view  it  in  the  light  of  eternity.  He 
lived  his  life  on  this  earth  at  the  summit 
of  time,  and  on  the  high  point  of  that 
summit  we  see  the  light  of  the  resur- 
rection, the  most  glorious  beacon  in  the 


I  B.  BROWN 

ie  Twelve  Apostles 

universe,  flashing  hope  and  courage  to 
a  benighted  world.  Let  us  from  that 
eminence  look  back — back  beyond  Eden, 
and  there  we  shall  find  that  Jesus  the 
Christ  was  with  God  the  Father  in  the 
beginning. 

And  that  beginning  must  have  ante- 
dated the  beginning  of  which  we  read 
in  Genesis  when  the  earth  was  created, 
for  the  obvious  reason  that  he  was  its 
Creator.  Yes,  he  lived  before  time  be- 
gan as  we  understand  time.  There  is 
ample  scriptural  evidence  to  support  the 
belief  that  Christ  had  a  pre-mortal  exist- 
ence. Time  will  not  permit  quoting  or 
reading  many  of  the  passages  of  scrip- 
ture, but  I  should  like  to  refer  to  one 
or  two. 

John,  in  his  inspired  preface,  said: 
"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and 

the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 

was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with 
God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  him;  and 


ELDER  HUG 

without  him  was  not  any  thing  made 
that  was  made.  .  .  . 

"And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and 
dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  beheld  his 
glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten 
of  the  Father,)  full  of  grace  and  truth." 
(John  1:1-3,  14.) 

To  this  wonderful  testimony  Paul 
adds  this  corroboration 

"For  by  him  were  all  things  created, 
that  are  in  heaven,  and  that  are  in 
earth,  visible  and  invisible,  whether 
they  be  thrones,  or  dominions,  or  prin- 
cipalities, or  powers:  all  things  were 
created  by  him,  and  for  him: 

"And  he  is  before  all  things,  and  by 
him  all  things  consist."  (Colossians 
1:16-17.) 

And  the  writer  of  Hebrews  adds: 

"God,  who  at  sundry  times  and  in 
divers  manners  spake  in  time  past  unto 
the  fathers  by  the  prophets. 

"Hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto 
us  by  his  Son,  whom  he  hath  appointed 
heir  of  all  things,  by  whom  also  he  made 
worlds:"  (Hebrews  1:1-2.) 

Jesus  himself  referred  to  his  pre- 
existence  many  times;  for  instance  he 
said: 

"For  I  came  down  from  heaven,  not 
to  do  mine  own  will,  but  the  will  of 
him  that  sent  me."  (John  6:38.) 

And  then  in  that  greatest  of  all  prayers 
we  find  the  poignant  passage: 

"And  now,  O  Father,  glorify  thou  me 
with  thine  own  self  with  the  glory  which 
I  had  with  thee  before  the  world  was." 
(Ibid.,  17:5.) 

At  another  time  he  chidingly  spoke  to 
his  uncomprehending  followers  and 
said: 

".  .  .  Doth  this  offend  you? 

"What  and  if  ye  shall  see  the  Son  of 
man  ascend  up  where  he  was  before?" 
(Ibid.,  6:61-62.) 

These  proofs  of  Christ's  pre-existence 
confirm  our  faith  in  the  immortality  of 
the  soul  for  if  the  spirit  had  an  exist- 
ence before  the  body  was  created,  so 
that  spirit  is  capable  of  independent 
existence  after  the  body  dies. 

The  fact  that  he  came  forth  from  the 
tomb  with  spirit  and  body  reunited — ■ 
and  this  is  the  central  fact  in  the  teach- 
ings of  the  apostles — gives  divine  assur- 
ance that  we  too,  through  his  atoning 
sacrifice,  shall  partake  of  the  blessings 


B.BROWN  111 

of  the  resurrection.  Hearken  to  his 
promise: 

"...  I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the 
life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth 
in  me  shall  never  die.  . . ."  (Ibid.,  11:25- 
26.) 

And  let  us  read  together  the  words  of 
John,  written  while  he  was  on  the  Isle 
of  Patmos,  as  recorded  in  Revelation, 

"Behold,  he  cometh  with  clouds;  and 
every  eye  shall  see  him,  and  they  also 
which  pierced  him:  .  .  ."  (Revelation 
1:7.) 

"And  when  I  saw  him,  I  fell  at  his 
feet  as  dead.  And  he  laid  his  right  hand 
upon  me,  saying  unto  me,  Fear  not;  I 
am  the  first  and  the  last: 

"I  am  he  that  liveth,  and  was  dead; 
and,  behold,  I  am  alive  for  evermore, 
.  .  ."  (Idem,  17-18.) 

John  continues 

"And  after  these  things  I  heard  a  great 
voice  of  much  people  in  heaven,  saying, 
Alleluia;  Salvation,  and  glory,  and  hon- 
our, and  power,  unto  the  Lord  our 
God:  ... 

"And  he  hath  on  his  vesture  and  on 
his  thigh  a  name  written,  KING  OF 
KINGS,  AND  LORD  OF  LORDS." 
(Ibid.,  19:1,  16.) 

Furthermore: 

"And  I  saw  a  new  heaven  and  a  new 
earth:  for  the  first  heaven  and  the  first 
earth  were  passed  away;  and  there  was 
no  more  sea. 

"And  I  John  saw  the  holy  city,  new 
Jerusalem,  coming  down  from  God  out 
of  heaven,  prepared  as  a  bride  adorned 
for  her  husband.  .  .  . 

"And  he  said  unto  me,  It  is  done.  I 
am  Alpha  and  Omega,  the  beginning 
and  the  end  "  (Ibid.,  21:2,  6.) 

Zechariah  said  that  when  the  Master 
shall  appear  he  will  stand  on  the  Mount 
of  Olives,  and  the  mount  shall  be  cleft 
in  twain,  and  they  beholding  the 
wounds  in  his  hands  shall  ask  whence 
these  wounds,  and  he  shall  reply, 

". . .  Those  with  which  I  was  wounded 
in  the  house  of  my  friends."  (Zechariah 
13:6.) 

"And  his  feet  shall  stand  in  that  day 
upon  the  mount  of  Olives,  which  is  be- 
fore Jerusalem  on  the  east,  and  the 
Mount  of  Olives  shall  cleave  in  the 
midst  thereof  toward  the  east  and  to- 


112 

Monday,  April  6 

ward  the  west,  and  there  shall  be  a  very 
great  valley;  and  half  of  the  mountain 
shall  remove  toward  the  north,  and 
half  of  it  toward  the  south."  (Ibid., 
14:4.) 

We  proclaim  the  pre-existence  and 
divine  nature  of  Christ,  the  purpose  of 
his  life,  the  reality  of  his  resurrection 
and  the  certainty  of  his  second  coming 
as  eternal  and  well-attested  truths  and 
prophetic  promises.  They  have  illumi- 
nating and  inspiring  significance  for  our 
troubled  world.  They  are  our  heritage 
from  the  Judeo-Christian  world,  clari- 
fied and  amplified  by  modern  revelation. 

They  are  relevant  to  our  time  and 
age,  which,  as  Adlai  Stevenson  recently 
pointed  out,  "is  a  time  of  conflict  of 
ideology,  as  a  time  of  ferment  in  tech- 
nology, a  period  of  revolution  in  sci- 
ence, ...  an  era  when  at  last  the  means 
lie  at  hand  to  free  mankind  from  the 
ancient  shackles  of  pain  and  hunger. 
It  is  all  these  things,  but  the  true  crisis 
of  our  times  lies  at  a  deeper  level.  All 
this  freedom  and  elbow  room  only 
thrusts  onto  us  with  more  force  the 
fundamental  issue  of  the  faith  that  is 
in  us." 

As  the  late  A.  Powell  Davies  said: 
"The  world  is  too  dangerous  for  any- 
thing but  truth  and  too  small  for  any- 
thing but  brotherhood." 

There  must  be  a  re-affirmation  of  the 
truths  concerning  the  fatherhood  of 
God,  the  Godhood  of  Christ,  and  the 
brotherhood  of  man.  Truths  for  which 
the  Savior  gave  his  life.  Truth  and 
brotherhood,  love  of  God  and  fellow 
men,  will  make  men  free  and  estab- 
lish peace  in  a  world  which  is  threat- 
ened with  a  devastating  and  final  war. 

The  truculent  and  blasphemous  at- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

tempts  of  communist  ideologies  to  erase 
Christ  from  their  literature  and  to  ex- 
punge all  memory  of  him  from  the  hearts 
and  minds  of  men,  in  order  to  degrade 
and  enslave  men,  must  fail,  for  as  God 
made  man  in  his  own  image,  so  his 
image  is  indelibly  stamped  on  the  souls 
of  men,  and  instinctively  they  know  that 
they  are  the  sons  of  God. 

The  challenge  of  evil  with  its  in- 
evitable confusion  tends  to  make  the 
relevance  of  Christ's  life  and  message 
more  apparent  and  the  application  of 
his  divine  teachings  more  urgent. 

It  would  be  cowardly  almost  to  the 
point  of  treason  to  dilute,  water  down, 
and  make  insipid  the  soul-saving  power 
of  these  glorious  truths.  Indeed,  as 
Paul  said: 

"That  at  the  name  of  Jesus  every  knee 
should  bow,  .  .  . 

"And  that  every  tongue  should  con- 
fess that  Jesus  Christ  is  Lord,  to  the 
glory  of  God  the  Father."  (Philippians 
2:10-11.) 

We  humbly  but  fearlessly  add  to  the 
testimonies  of  the  prophets  and  apostles 
of  old  our  own  witness  that  he  lives, 
that  he  is  a  personal  being,  that  he 
will  come  again  with  his  resurrected, 
glorified  body  still  bearing  the  marks  of 
the  crucifixion  and  that  there  is  none 
other  name  under  heaven  given  among 
men  whereby  we  must  be  saved,  to 
which  I  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  RICH 

Of  the  Council  of 

I  have  in  my  library,  I  think,  the  con- 
ference addresses  so  far  as  they  are  avail- 
able back  to  the  beginning,  including 
the  Journal  of  Discourses,  and  I  think 
all  the  conference  pamphlets  or  dis- 
courses published  since  then.  In  each 
one  is  a  statement  of  counsel,  of  eternal 
principles,  of  commandments,  of  prac- 


ID  L.  EVANS 

le  Twelve  Apostles 

tical  advice  for  the  day  in  which  we 
live. 

This  conference  in  which  we  have 
now  sat  nearly  three  days  is  no  excep- 
tion to  that.  With  you  I  have  marveled 
at  the  breadth  and  the  depth  of  the 
advice  here  given,  the  need  for  it,  and 
the  manner  in  which  it  touches  the 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


113 


needs  of  the  day  in  which  we  live.  We 
have  been  fed.  Our  lives  have  been 
enriched  and  steadied  and  encouraged 
in  all  things  pertaining  to  life,  and  I 
feel  to  express  the  gratitude  of  my 
heart  for  these  recurring  conferences 
when  we  get  together  for  reminder  and 
renewal  of  faith,  and  of  witness,  and 
of  instruction  in  eternal  truth. 

Some  time  ago,  as  I  am  sure  many 
of  you  have  done,  I  saw  a  rather  un- 
usual documentary  film  produced  by 
the  Bell  Telephone  system,  in  which 
a  panel  of  scientists  and  others  were 
reviewing  the  great  breadth  of  crea- 
tion: this  world,  and  men,  and  space 
beyond.  It  was  developed  as  if  it  were 
a  mystery  story,  and  was  called,  as  I 
remember,  "The  Strange  Case  of  the 
Cosmic  Rays,"  in  which  scientists  were 
telling  what  had  been  discovered  and 
what  the  current  thinking  was  about 
what  had  been  discovered.  They  had 
selected  a  panel  of  distinguished  men 
recalled  from  history,  including  some 
celebrated  names.  I  think  Charles 
Dickens  was  among  them,  and  Edgar 
Allen  Poe,  and  Dostoyevsky,  the  eminent 
Russian  writer,  men  who  were,  in  a 
measure,  sitting  in  judgment  on  the 
work  of  the  scientists. 

I  made  some  notes  at  that  time,  and 
although  they  are  cold  and  not  re- 
checked,  they  have  been  running 
through  my  mind.  The  men  of  sci- 
ence asked  this  panel  to  appraise  their 
findings,  first  bringing  attention  to  the 
fact  that  the  universe  is  a  unified  whole, 
that  there  is  evidence  of  planning  and 
intelligence  and  order  and  law  through- 
out the  entire  universe. 

Then  one  of  the  witnesses,  before  he 
would  commit  himself  to  an  opinion, 
asked  a  very  significant  question,  which 
one  is  always  disposed  to  ask  in  mystery 
stories:  "What  is  the  motive  of  it  all? 
You  have  told  us  about  space.  You 
have  told  us  about  the  earth.  You 
have  told  us  about  cosmic  rays,  and 
life,  and  atoms,  and  all  the  natural 
phenomena.  What  is  the  motive  of 
it  all?"  Then  they  concluded,  as  I 
recall,  that  they  did  not  know  enough 
about  the  motive  of  it  all,  and  suggested 
that  the  panel  come  back  fifty  years 
hence  and  see  whether  they  were  any 
closer  to  an  answer — with  the  scientists 
themselves  conceding  that  however 
much  they  may  have  discovered,  they 


were  like  Newton,  who  said:  "I  do  not 
know  what  I  may  appear  to  the  world, 
but  to  myself  I  seem  to  have  been  only 
like  a  boy  playing  on  the  seashore,  and 
diverting  myself  in  now  and  then  find- 
ing a  smoother  pebble  or  a  prettier 
shell  than  ordinary,  whilst  the  great 
ocean  of  truth  lay  all  undiscovered 
before  me." 

I  think  the  motive  of  it  all  is  an  ever- 
present  and  ever-insistent  question: 
What  has  been  the  motive  of  this  con- 
ference? What  is  the  motive  of  the 
gospel?  What  is  the  motive  of  all  this 
teaching,  all  this  traveling,  all  this  mis- 
sionary endeavor?  Of  all  the  work  and 
the  effort  and  the  struggle  of  life,  of  all 
the  striving,  all  the  learning,  all  the 
living? 

Blessedly  the  Lord  God  has  told  us 
what  the  motive  of  it  all  is,  and  it  is 
no  small  motive,  pertaining  not  only  to 
time  nor  to  life  on  earth.  It  is  a  mo- 
tive pertaining  to  eternity,  and  the  great 
summarizing  sentence  of  the  motive, 
of  course,  has  already  been  recalled  in 
this  conference  a  number  of  times.  The 
Lord  God  himself  has  declared  it  to  be 
his  purpose  and  his  glory  to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man. 

The  motive  is  happiness;  it  is  peace; 
it  is  progress;  it  is  everlasting  life,  and 
not  just  a  few  short  days  or  a  few  short 
years.  It  is  a  motive  of  such  consequence 
and  such  endlessness  that  it  transcends 
all  else.  It  is  this  for  which  we  do  all 
we  do,  this  for  which  we  gather,  this 
for  which  we  teach,  encourage,  and  bear 
witness  to  each  other,  this  for  which 
we  remind  each  other  of  these  great  and 
everlasting  things  of  life. 

"But  when  the  Pharisees  had  heard 
that  he  had  put  the  Sadducees  to  silence, 
they  were  gathered  together. 

"Then  one  of  them,  which  was  a 
lawyer,  asked  him  a  question,  tempting 
him,  and  saying, 

"Master,  which  is  the  great  com- 
mandment in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy 
mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  command- 
ment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 
"On  these  two  commandments  hang 


114 

Monday,  April  6 

all  the  law  and  the  prophets."  (Matthew 
22:34-40.) 

I  read  into  this  something,  or  would 
like  to  read  into  it  today,  something 
which  is  not  always  read  into  it:  I  think 
this  implies  not  only  that  we  should 
love  our  neighbors,  but  in  a  very  sin- 
cere and  real  and  unselfish  way  we 
should  also  love  ourselves.  I  think  the 
Lord  God  must  have  intended  that  we 
should  have  a  high  regard  and  respect 
for  ourselves  as  well  as  a  high  regard 
and  respect  for  other  men. 

I  am  thinking  of  a  line  from  Ruskin, 
in  which  he  said:  "There  is  no  wealth 
but  life."  The  life  each  of  us  has  is, 
after  all,  the  sum  and  substance  of  all 
that  we  have  in  time  and  in  eternity. 
And  I  think  no  intelligent  man  would 
ever  deliberately  do  anything  which 
would  not  make  him  happy.  I  cannot 
think  of  an  intelligent  man's  doing  what 
would  make  him  unhappy.  I  think 
when  we  err,  we  err  in  that  we  lose  our 
sense  of  values  or  our  sense  of  direc- 
tion, or  do  not  quite  have  in  mind  what 
will  make  us  happy  or  unhappy.  All 
the  motive,  all  the  commandments,  all 
the  counsel  of  God,  all  this  great  effort 
of  living  and  of  life,  all  the  striving, 
the  learning  and  all  else,  should  make 
us  basically  happy.  Our  Father  had 
no  other  motive  for  us  but  our  happi- 
ness, our  peace,  and  progress  and  limit- 
less life  with  our  loved  ones  everlast- 
ingly, ever  with  accomplishment,  ever 
with  growth,  ever  with  opportunity, 
ever  with  the  highest  possibilities  that 
the  Lord  God  could  help  his  children 
to  realize  in  life — this  is  the  motive,  this 
is  the  source  of  happiness,  of  service, 
of  all  we  do  for  each  other,  of  all  we 
do  for  ourselves. 

Now,  as  we  go  from  here  and  ask 
ourselves  what  comes  of  all  of  this, 
what  the  motive  of  it  all  is,  and  what 
life  is,  I  think  we  have  the  summary 
in  the  lines  given  and  so  oft  repeated, 
"to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man,"  and  no  short- 
sighted decisions  and  no  short-sighted 
objectives  should  ever  be  the  determin- 
ing factors  of  our  lives. 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  with 
the  counsel  of  Brother  George  Q.  Morris 
in  advising  us  to  go  forth  and  live  our 
lives  with  steady  purpose,  and  not  worry 
too  much  about  the  uncertainties  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

about  the  things  we  do  not  know.  I 
would  leave  this  counsel  with  our  youth: 
We  all  live  in  uncertainties,  and  we 
always  have.  All  generations  have,  and 
if  we  were  so  concerned  about  the  un- 
certainties that  we  did  not  make  solid 
preparations  for  the  future  and  turn  in 
a  solid  performance  we  should  have 
wasted  life.  With  a  calm,  quiet  peace 
and  purpose,  and  with  prayer  in  our 
hearts,  and  with  the  clean  living  of 
life  and  the  keeping  of  the  command- 
ments, we  ought  to  go  forward  into  the 
future  and  lay  as  broad  a  base  and  ac- 
quire as  much  knowledge  and  prepare 
ourselves  as  well,  and  serve  as  well  as 
we  can  or  ever  could,  despite  all  ominous 
threats  and  all  else  that  seems  to  disturb 
the  present  scene. 

From  a  young  missionary's  report 
given  a  few  nights  ago  came  a  sentence 
that  was  great  in  its  implications.  Speak- 
ing of  enduring  to  the  end,  he  said: 
"We  must  not  only  endure,  but  we  must 
prevail." 

There  is  great  motive;  there  is  great 
purpose.  As  has  been  asked  through  all 
the  ages,  "What  is  Man?"  I  recall  a 
scientist's  answer  to  a  great  group  of 
men  last  summer  as  he  suggested  some 
elements  of  the  answer  as  to  what  man 
was.  He  endeavored  to  tell  us  how 
many  atoms  each  man  had  in  his  physi- 
cal anatomy,  and  we  thought  we  were 
something  very  considerable  when  he 
said  that  we  each  had  an  octillion 
atoms  in  us,  in  our  physical  frames. 
Then  he  tried  to  tell  us  what  an  octillion 
is.  He  said  if  it  should  start  to  rain 
peas,  just  ordinary  garden  peas,  and 
rain  peas  four  feet  deep  over  the  whole 
face  of  the  earth,  water  and  land  sur- 
face included,  and  then  rain  peas  four 
feet  deep  over  250,000  planets  this  size, 
that  would  be  an  octillion — give  or  take 
a  few,  more  or  less.  We  began  to  feel 
quite  puffed  up  and  important.  Then 
he  said  if  you  squeeze  out  all  the  space 
between  all  the  atoms  in  and  between 
the  electrons  and  all  the  component 
parts  of  these  atoms,  you  would  then 
be  about  as  big  as  a  speck  of  dust.  Then 
we  began  to  acquire  our  humility  back 
again. 

But  beyond  all  the  atoms,  he  wit- 
nessed to  us  as  a  scientist,  memory  is 
perpetuated;  man  is  more  than  a 
machine;  and  there  is  something  eter- 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


115 


nal  which  persists  always  and  everlast- 
ingly. That,  of  course,  we  knew  by 
other  witnesses.  Life  is  everlasting,  and 
the  motive  we  know,  and  the  purposes 
of  our  Father  we  know.  His  plans  we 
know  in  sufficient  amount  to  help  us 
to  realize  them  in  their  fullest  and 
highest  if  we  will,  and  I  leave  my  wit- 
ness with  you  as  to  the  truth  of  the 
counsel  which  has  been  given  in  this 
conference,  as  to  the  prophetic  leader- 
ship which  we  are  privileged  in  this 
day  and  generation  to  have,  and  as  to 
the  great  motive  which  supersedes  all 
the  transitory  things  of  life,  to  the  real- 
ization of  which  I  pray  God  we  may 
leave  here  and  rededicate  ourselves  and 
teach  our  children,  and  devote  all  the 
effort  and  earnestness  we  have  within 
us,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Under  the  direction  of  Chester  W.  Hill, 
the  Choir  of  Ricks  College  and  the  Con- 
gregation will  now  sing,  "Now  Let  Us 
Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 
Brother  Alvin  Dyer  will  follow  the 
singing. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  In  The 
Day  of  Salvation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Bruce  R.  Mc- 
Conkie. 


ELDER  ALV 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

I  have  learned  a  little  more  realistical- 
ly what  is  meant  by  the  scripture,  "he 
that  endureth  to  the  end."  Brother 
Hinckley  says  it  is  "the  survival  of  the 
fittest."  I  do  not  know  what  that  means, 
but  I  do  know  this,  that  what  has  been 
said  at  this  conference  has  greatly  in- 
creased my  faith  and  testimony  and 
desire  to  serve  the  Lord. 

In  the  few  minutes  that  I  shall  oc- 
cupy I  should  like  to  testify  of  the 
prophets  and  read  to  you  from  section 
one  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
these  words: 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the 
calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and 
spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave 
him  commandments."  (D&C  1:17.) 

I  had  an  experience  some  few  months 
before  I  left  the  mission  field,  of  a 
ministerial  association  from  one  of  the 
states  in  our  mission,  writing  a  letter 
and  saying  that  they  were  receiving 
ever-increasing  inquiries  about  the 
Mormon  Church  and  would  we  please 
supply  them  with  literature  and  in- 
formation. We  did  this,  and  I  had 
occasion  also  to  visit  the  headquarters 
of  this  association.    And  there  in  the 


N  R.  DYER 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

presence  of  a  number  of  these  men, 
and  some  of  them  were  ministers,  had 
the  opportunity  of  explaining  to  them 
the  premise  under  which  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  had 
been  organized. 

I  took  occasion  at  that  time  to  read 
to  them  from  section  twenty  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  I  would 
like  to  read  to  you  what  I  read  to  them, 
beginning  with  verse  7: 

"And  gave  unto  him  [meaning  Joseph 
Smith]  commandments  which  inspired 
him; 

"And  gave  him  power  from  on  high, 
by  the  means  which  were  before  pre- 
pared, to  translate  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon; 

"Which  contains  a  record  of  a  fallen 
people,  and  the  fulness  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  Gentiles  and  to 
the  Jews  also; 

"Which  was  given  by  inspiration,  and 
is  confirmed  to  others  by  the  minister- 
ing of  angels,  and  is  declared  unto  the 
world  by  them — 

"Proving  to  the  world  that  the  holy 
scriptures  are  true,  and  that  God  does 
inspire  men  and  call  them  to  his  holy 
work  in  this  age  and  generation,  as  well 
as  in  generations  of  old; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


116 

Monday,  April  6 

"Thereby  showing  that  he  is  the 
same  God  yesterday,  today,  and  for- 
ever. Amen. 

"Therefore,  having  so  great  witnesses, 
by  them  shall  the  world  be  judged,  even 
as  many  as  shall  hereafter  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  this  work. 

"And  those  who  receive  it  in  faith, 
and  work  righteousness,  shall  receive  a 
crown  of  eternal  life; 

"But  those  who  harden  their  hearts 
in  unbelief,  and  reject  it,  it  shall  turn 
to  their  own  condemnation — 

"For  the  Lord  God  has  spoken  it;  and 
we,  the  elders  of  the  church,  have  heard 
and  bear  witness  to  the  words  of  the 
glorious  Majesty  on  high,  to  whom  be 
glory  forever  and  ever.  Amen."  (Ibid., 
20:7-16.) 

This  had  a  profound  effect  upon 
these  men,  and  I  was  grateful  to  leave 
my  witness  with  them  as  to  the  premise 
for  the  organization  of  God's  Church 
upon  the  earth  in  this  day  and  time. 

Some  years  ago  there  appeared  an 
article  in  Fortune  magazine,  which  had 
to  do  with  the  failure,  according  to  the 
editors  and  authors  of  this  article,  of 
the  Christian  churches  of  America  to 
supply  the  needed  inspiration  for  the 
direction  of  the  Christian  churches  in 
this  land.  This  article  has  very  re- 
cently been  referred  to  by  one  of  our 
noted  educators  from  the  West  Coast, 
Dr.  Robert  Gordon  Sproul,  president 
of  the  University  of  California.  I  read 
from  this  article,  which  stresses  the 
need  of  divine  direction  in  the  Christian 
churches  of  America.   I  quote: 

"We  have  the  peculiar  spectacle  of 
a  nation  which,  to  a  limited  extent, 
practices  Christianity  without  actively 
believing  in  Christianity.  We  are  asked 
to  turn  to  the  Church  for  our  enlight- 
enment, but  when  we  do  this  we  find 
that  the  voice  of  the  Church  is  not 
inspired.  The  voice  of  the  Church 
today  is  the  echo  of  our  own  voices. 
And  the  result  of  this  experience,  al- 
ready manifest  is  disillusionment.  .  .  . 

"The  way  out,"  continues  Dr.  Sproul, 
"is  the  sound  of  a  voice,  not  our  voice, 
but  a  voice  coming  from  somewhere 
not  ourselves,  in  the  existence  of  which 
we  cannot  disbelieve. 

"It  is  the  task  of  the  pastors  to  hear 
this  voice,  cause  us  to  hear  it,  and  to 
tell  us  what  it  says.  If  they  cannot  hear 


Third  Day 

it,  or  if  they  fail  to  tell  us  what  it  says, 
we,  as  laymen,  are  wholly  lost. 

"Without  it  we  are  no  more  capable 
of  saving  the  world,  than  we  were 
capable  of  creating  it  in  the  first  place." 

I  think  one  of  the  great  messages  of 
this  Church  is  to  declare  unto  the 
world  that  God  has  raised  up  a  prophet 
and  that  there  is  a  need  for  a  prophet 
of  God  in  this  day  and  age.  We  go  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth  to  proclaim  this 
unto  the  children  of  men  and  if  they 
will  but  listen  to  the  direction  and  the 
inspiration  of  the  prophets  of  God  we 
could  be  led  from  our  dilemma  and 
from  the  disillusionment  that  settles 
over  the  earth  today. 

I  read  recently  of  a  statement  of 
Winston  Churchill  which  gives  some 
evidence  of  the  need  of  inspired  direc- 
tion in  the  earth  today,  for  said  he, 
"As  the  years  go  by,  the  process  of 
government — I  suppose  in  every  mod- 
ern country  and  certainly  in  our  own — 
grows  ever  more  complicated  and  bur- 
densome. .  .  . 

"I  have  perhaps  a  longer  experience 
than  almost  anyone,  and  I  have  never 
brooded  over  a  situation  which  de- 
manded more  patience,  composure, 
courage  and  perseverance  than  that 
which  unfolds  itself  before  us  today." 

Is  there  a  need  for  a  prophet  of  God? 
The  answer  is  yes.  Look  at  the  evi- 
dences of  this.  The  world  of  politics 
and  relationships  between  nations  is 
not  improving  since  that  statement 
was  made,  in  fact  they  have  grown 
worse.  There  is  a  world-wide  lack  of 
trust  between  peoples.  We  stand  each 
dawn,  as  it  were,  on  the  brink  of  open 
hostilities. 

Atomic  and  hydrogen  power,  with 
their  many  implements  of  destruction, 
serve  only  to  add  to  the  menace  of 
our  way  of  living.  The  pressure  con- 
ditions under  which  we  live  today  are 
taking  a  tremendous  toll  in  heart  and 
mental  disturbances.  The  status  of 
home  life,  spiraling  trends  of  drunken- 
ness, surging  infidelity  in  the  home  of 
husband  and  wife,  with  an  over-all 
laxity  of  morals  among  both  young  and 
old,  increased  personal  and  community 
delinquencies  all  pointing  to  a  growing 
disregard  for  the  worth  of  the  individual. 
One  would  have  to  be  blind  not  to 
recognize  these  disastrous  trends  and 


ELDER  BRUCE 

the  need  of  divine  direction  to  save 
those  who  will  hear,  understand,  and 
follow  the  truth.  The  ancient  Prophet 
Amos  declared,  that  God  would  do 
nothing,  save  he  reveal  his  mind  and 
will  to  his  servants  the  prophets.  (See 
Amos  3:7.)  The  need  of  the  mind  and 
will  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  through  his 
servant,  a  prophet,  is  greatly  in  evidence. 

I  want  to  leave  my  testimony,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  does  live 
and  that  he  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
are  at  the  helm,  and  that  prophets  have 
been  raised  up  from  the  very  inception 
of  this  Church,  commencing  with 
Joseph  Smith  and  others  who  have 
followed  him,  and  that  we  are  blessed 


R.  McCONKIE  117 

to  have  standing  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  today  and  directing  us,  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  if  the  children  of 
men  would  but  listen  to  the  voice  of 
that  prophet  we  all  could  be  led  away 
from  the  difficulties  that  are  oppressing 
us  this  very  day.  I  bear  this  record  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Brother  Hinckley. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


May  I  call  attention  to  the  great  gos- 
pel truth  that  salvation  is  a  family 
affair,  that  it  is  attained  in  and  through, 
by  and  because  of  families. 

For  a  text,  may  I  read  the  words 
quoted  by  Moroni  to  Joseph  Smith  on 
the  evening  of  September  21,  1823: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the 
Priesthood,  by  the  hand  of  Elijah  the 
prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of 
the  children  the  promises  made  to  the 
fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children 
shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 

"If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth 
would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his  coming." 
(D&C  2:1-3.) 

Now,  what  were  the  promises  made 
to  the  fathers?  Since  the  coming  of 
Elijah,  on  April  3,  1836,  in  what  way 
have  these  promises  been  planted  in 
the  hearts  of  the  children? 

In  answer,  and  by  way  of  illustration, 
may  I  read  one  of  the  greatest  prom- 
ises ever  made  to  the  fathers,  one  which 
is  perhaps  pre-eminent  above  all  others. 
To  Abraham  the  Lord  said: 

"...  I  am  the  Lord  thy  God;  .  .  . 

"My  name  is  Jehovah,  and  I  know  the 
end  from  the  beginning;  .  .  . 

"And  I  will  make  of  thee  a  great 
nation,  and  I  will  bless  thee  above 
measure,  and  make  thy  name  great 
among  all  nations,  and  thou  shalt  be  a 


blessing  unto  thy  seed  after  thee,  that 
in  their  hands  they  shall  bear  this  min- 
istry and  Priesthood  unto  all  nations; 

"And  I  will  bless  them  through  thy 
name;  for  as  many  as  receive  this  Gos- 
pel shall  be  called  after  thy  name,  and 
shall  be  accounted  thy  seed,  and  shall 
rise  up  and  bless  thee,  as  their  father; 

"And  I  will  bless  them  that  bless 
thee,  and  curse  them  that  curse  thee; 
and  in  thee  (that  is,  in  thy  Priesthood) 
and  in  thy  seed  (that  is,  thy  Priest- 
hood)" and  now  note  particularly  what 
follows;  it  is  the  heart  and  core  of 
all  the  promises  made  to  the  fathers — 
"for  I  give  unto  thee  a  promise  that  this 
right  shall  continue  in  thee,  and  in  thy 
seed  after  thee  (that  is  to  say,  the  literal 
seed,  or  the  seed  of  the  body)  shall  all 
the  families  of  the  earth  be  blessed, 
even  with  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel, 
which  are  the  blessings  of  salvation, 
even  of  life  eternal."  (Abraham  2:7-11.) 

In  the  nearly  four  thousand  years 
since  Abraham,  uncounted  millions  of 
his  literal  seed  have  lived  in  the  world, 
most  of  them  in  a  day  when  the  gospel, 
with  its  saving  ordinances  and  truths, 
was  not  found  among  men.  Yet  the 
Lord  promised  Abraham,  their  father, 
that  these  millions  who  have  sprung 
from  him,  these  millions  who  are  his 
literal  seed,  these  hosts  of  his  posterity 
who  comprise  a  major  portion  of  a 
multitude  of  nations,  that  all  these  are 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

entitled  by  lineage  and  as  of  right  to 
the  blessings  of  the  priesthood,  of  the 
gospel,  of  salvation,  and  of  eternal  life. 

May  I  here  note  that  in  order  for 
men  to  gain  salvation  in  the  kingdom 
of  God,  they  must  receive  the  ordinances 
of  baptism  and  of  the  laying  on  of 
hands  for  the  receipt  of  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  in  order  for  them  to  gain  eternal 
life,  which  is  the  fulness  of  the  Father's 
kingdom,  and  be  joint-heirs  with  his 
Son,  they  must  in  addition  enter  into 
the  ordinance  of  celestial  marriage. 

Now  by  revelation  the  Lord  in  our 
day  has  singled  out  and  identified  the 
children  in  whose  hearts  the  promises 
made  to  the  fathers  have  been  planted. 
To  the  elders  of  the  Church  in  this 
day  he  said: 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you,  with 
whom  the  priesthood  hath  continued 
through  the  lineage  of  your  fathers — 

"For  ye  are  lawful  heirs,  according  to 
the  flesh,  and  have  been  hid  from  the 
world  with  Christ  in  God — 

"Therefore  your  life  and  the  priest- 
hood have  remained,  and  must  needs 
remain  through  you  and  your  lineage 
until  the  restoration  of  all  things  spoken 
by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets 
since  the  world  began. 

"Therefore,  blessed  are  ye  if  ye  con- 
tinue in  my  goodness,  a  light  unto  the 
Gentiles,  and  through  this  priesthood, 
a  savior  unto  my  people  Israel.  The 
Lord  hath  said  it."  (D&C  86:8-11.) 

Well,  we  are  latter-day  Israel;  we  are 
part  of  the  seed  of  Abraham;  we  hold  the 
power  and  authority  of  this  priesthood; 
we  are  a  light  to  the  gentile  nations, 
and  as  a  result  we  are  under  command 
to  carry  the  message  of  salvation  to 
them.  But  we  are  also  chosen  and  ap- 
pointed to  be  saviors  to  Israel  itself,  to 
the  seed  of  Abraham — to  the  whole 
kingdom  and  nation  of  people  of  the 
chosen  lineage,  who  have  lived  in  all 
the  days  since  Abraham — whether  they 
lived  when  the  gospel  was  here  or 
whether  they  did  not. 

May  I  now  show  how  these  principles 
work  by  using  myself  as  the  illustra- 
tion. I  have  received  the  gospel;  I  have 
been  baptized  under  the  hands  of  a 
legal  administrator;  I  have  received  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — all  of  which 
has  put  me  on  a  path  leading  to  an 


Third  Day 

inheritance  of  salvation  in  the  celestial 
world.  Also,  I  have  gone  to  the  temple 
and  been  sealed  to  one  of  God's  choicest 
handmaidens  and  have  thereby  obtained 
a  place  on  the  path  leading  to  an  in- 
heritance of  eternal  life  in  the  highest 
heaven  of  the  celestial  world.  By  obedi- 
ence I  have  power  to  press  forward 
and  obtain  these  great  rewards. 

Because  I  have  some  understanding 
and  realization  of  the  glory,  importance, 
and  worth  of  these  gospel  blessings, 
there  has  come  into  my  heart  a  great 
desire  to  have  my  children  after  me 
become  inheritors  of  the  same  identical 
blessings  that  I  have  received,  and  so  I 
strive  to  bring  up  my  children  in  light 
and  truth.  Next  to  my  own  salvation 
and  that  of  my  wife,  there  is  nothing 
so  important  to  me  as  the  salvation  of 
my  children. 

Further,  because  I  know  the  priceless 
worth  of  the  gospel  and  the  blessings 
that  flow  from  it,  I  have  a  desire  that 
my  ancestors — those  who  lived  when 
the  gospel  was  not  on  earth  and  who 
have  not  had  the  privileges  which  are 
mine — I  have  a  great  desire  that  they 
also  should  be  inheritors  of  these  bless- 
ings. In  other  words,  the  promises 
made  to  the  fathers  have  been  planted 
in  my  heart,  and  I  am  obligated  to  act 
as  a  minister  for  the  salvation  of  those 
in  my  line  who  have  lived  and  died 
without  having  the  gospel  preached 
to  them. 

And  now,  if  I  do  what  I  should,  I 
will  search  out  and  identify  those  who 
have  gone  before  in  my  lineage,  and 
will  see  that  the  ordinances  of  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  are  performed  for 
them. 

Salvation  is  a  family  affair.  It  is  I, 
my  wife,  my  children,  and  my  ancestors. 
It  is  you,  your  wives,  your  children, 
and  your  ancestors.  Salvation  is  a 
family  affair. 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy  has  just  spoken 
to  us.  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


119 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  seek  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  what  I  say  may 
be  consonant  with  the  inspirational 
things  to  which  we  have  listened  during 
the  past  three  days.  As  I  look  into  your 
faces,  I  see  the  fulfilment  of  prophecy. 
In  your  presence  I  see  a  realization  of 
the  words  of  Jeremiah:  "...  I  will  take 
you  one  of  a  city,  and  two  of  a  family, 
and  I  will  bring  you  to  Zion. 

"And  I  will  give  you  pastors  accord- 
ing to  mine  heart,  which  shall  feed  you 
with  knowledge  and  understanding." 
(Jer.  3:14-15.) 

You  are  here,  each  of  us  is  here,  en- 
joying the  blessings  of  the  Lord  because 
the  servants  of  the  Lord  have  gone 
into  the  world  to  teach  the  glad  tidings 
of  the  gospel  for  the  blessing  of  our 
Father's  children.  More  than  eighty 
thousand  of  them  have  gone.  They 
have  given  more  than  two  hundred 
thousand  man-years  of  dedicated  serv- 
ice. I  am  sure  that  few  of  us  appreciate 
the  cost,  the  heartaches,  the  sorrows, 
the  sacrifices,  and  the  results  of  this 
magnificent  effort. 

I  read  the  other  day  a  story  written 
by  a  little  girl  whose  father  was  on  a 
mission  in  Denmark  when  she  and 
her  mother  lived  in  Parowan.  She 
writes: 

"My  little  mother  had  to  work  like 
a  slave  to  keep  her  children  while 
Father  was  on  his  mission.  I  remember 
how  every  night  she  would  spin,  and 
how  in  the  daytime,  I  would  split  fine 
splinters  off  from  the  pitchy  wood,  and 
at  night  I  would  sit  with  her  and  tend 
the  baby  and  keep  holding  and  lighting 
these  pitchy  sticks  for  her  to  see  to 
spin  by,  and  how  I  would  cry  when 
I  went  to  bed  to  think  my  sweet  little 
mother  had  to  work  so  hard.  .  .  . 

"I  remember  the  Christmas  of  1862. 
All  of  us  children  hung  up  our  stock- 
ings. We  jumped  up  early  in  the 
morning  to  see  what  Santa  had  brought, 
but  there  was  not  a  thing  in  them. 
Mother  wept  bitterly.  She  went  to  her 
box  and  got  a  little  apple  and  cut  it  in 
little  tiny  pieces  and  that  was  our 
Christmas,  but  I  have  never  forgotten 
to  this  day  how  I  loved  her  dear  little 


hands  as  she  was  cutting  that  apple." 
(Hannah  Daphne  Smith  Dalton) 

A  few  years  ago  I  did  some  research 
on  the  discovery  of  gold  in  California, 
in  which  men  of  the  Mormon  Battalion 
participated.  I  learned  that  while  men 
were  traveling  westward  over  land  and 
sea  in  search  of  gold,  missionaries  from 
these  valleys  were  traveling  eastward 
over  land  and  sea  in  search  of  souls. 
And  the  days  of  sacrifice  are  not  over.  As 
you  heard  this  morning  among  the 
statistics  that  were  read  to  you,  the 
parents  and  friends  of  our  missionaries 
last  year  sent  them  between  five  and 
six  million  dollars.  That  money  was 
spent  not  only  in  dollars,  but  also  in 
pounds  and  shillings,  in  crowns  and 
kroner,  in  francs  and  marks,  in  yen,  in 
pesos,  and  cruzeros. 

Add  to  that  the  value  of  the  time  of 
the  missionaries.  Estimate  it  conserva- 
tively at  another  five  or  six  million 
dollars,  and  you  have  a  consecration  of 
at  least  ten  million  dollars  a  year  for  the 
purpose  of  declaring  the  reality  and  per- 
sonality of  God,  the  deep  meaning  of 
the  Atonement,  and  the  restoration  of 
the  Lord's  Church,  guided  by  apostles 
and  prophets. 

I  think  you  may  be  interested  in 
these  remarkable  words  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  written  in  1842,  two  years 
before  his  death: 

".  .  .  no  unhallowed  hand  can  stop 
the  work  from  progressing;  persecutions 
may  rage,  mobs  may  combine,  armies 
may  assemble,  calumny  may  defame, 
but  the  truth  of  God  will  go  forth 
boldly,  nobly,  and  independent,  till  it 
has  penetrated  every  continent,  visited 
every  clime,  swept  every  country,  and 
sounded  in  every  ear,  till  the  purposes 
of  God  shall  be  accomplished  and  the 
Great  Jehovah  shall  say  the  work  is 
done."  (History  of  the  Church  1^:540.) 

That  is  the  magnitude  of  our  mission, 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  it  shall  not 
be  accomplished  until  the  Great  Jehovah 
shall  say  the  work  is  done. 

I  am  sure  we  are  all  gratified  by  the 
many  good  things  said  concerning  the 
Church.  We  are  deeply  grateful  for 
the  opportunities  of  radio  and  tele- 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

vision,  and  the  generosity  of  the  public 
press,  all  of  which  help  to  build  a 
favorable  atmosphere  in  which  to  teach 
the  gospel.  But  I  am  confident  that 
the  time  will  never  come  when  we  shall 
not  need  vigorous  men  and  women  of 
faith  to  go  into  the  world  as  missionaries 
for  this  cause.  We  have  never  found, 
and  I  think  we  never  shall  find,  an 
adequate  substitute  for  the  situation 
in  which  two  wholesome  young  men 
meet  with  a  family,  reason  with  them, 
teach  them,  testify  to  them,  and  pray 
with  them.  We  shall  always  need  mis- 
sionaries. With  that  thought  in  mind 
I  should  like  to  suggest  a  five  point 
program  for  the  membership  of  the 
Church,  a  program  which  I  feel  is  easy 
of  attainment,  and  which  would  prove 
fruitful  to  this  great  cause. 

1.  That  we  cultivate  in  our  homes  a 
proper  attitude  toward  missionary  serv- 
ice. We  enjoy  the  blessings  we  so 
greatly  treasure  because  of  those  who 
have  gone  before  us.  Out  of  a  sense  of 
appreciation,  out  of  simple  gratitude, 
we  should  make  an  effort  to  extend 
these  same  blessings  to  others.  Our 
young  people  have  an  obligation  to  pre- 
pare themselves  for  missionary  service. 

We  should  also  build  the  attitude 
that  there  is  nothing  of  a  vacation, 
nothing  of  a  holiday  in  this  great  mis- 
sionary service.  It  is  hard,  and  at  times 
discouraging,  work.  Last  year  our  mis- 
sionaries averaged  sixty-seven  hours  a 
week  in  actual  proselyting  effort.  Let 
those  who  contemplate  missions  realize 
that  they  will  work  as  they  have  never 
worked  before,  and  that  they  may  ex- 
pect such  joy  as  they  have  not  previously 
known. 

2.  That  we  foster  training  for  mis- 
sionary service.  One  of  the  great  com- 
pliments paid  the  Savior  was  that  he 
taught  as  one  having  authority.  The 
missionary  who  knows  scripture  and 
can  quote  it  speaks  with  the  voice  of 
authority.  It  is  not  essential  to  memo- 
rize five  hundred  citations,  nor  even 
three  hundred.  Fifty  well  chosen  verses 
of  scripture  will  become  a  remarkably 
effective  tool  in  the  hands  of  a  mis- 
sionary. May  I  suggest  that  in  our 
family  night  gatherings  we  make  it  a 
project  to  memorize  one  scripture  cita- 
tion a  week  pertinent  to  this  work.  At 
the  conclusion  of  a  year  our  children 


Third  Day 

will  have  on  their  lips  a  fund  of  scrip- 
ture which  will  remain  with  them 
throughout  their  lives. 

3.  That  we  make  financial  prepara- 
tion. Missionary  work,  like  everything 
else,  has  become  more  costly.  I  was 
heartened  by  my  experience  in  inter- 
viewing a  young  man  in  Arizona  re- 
cently. I  asked  whether  he  had  a 
sincere  desire  to  go  on  a  mission.  He 
replied,  "I  have  wanted  to  go  since  I 
was  seven,  and,  moreover,  since  that 
time  I  have  saved  for  it.  I  have  $1600 
in  the  bank  to  make  certain  that  I  shall 
have  the  means  to  go."  A  little  at  a 
time,  systematically  saved,  will  assure 
our  children  that  the  necessary  means 
will  be  available  when  a  missionary 
call  comes. 

4.  That  we  see  that  our  public  and 
private  deportment  backs  up  the  mis- 
sionary cause.  No  member  of  this 
Church  can  let  down  his  standards 
without  throwing  an  obstacle  in  the 
way  of  those  who  are  striving  to  teach 
the  gospel  in  the  world.  Likewise,  no 
member  can  uphold  the  standards  of 
the  Church  in  public  and  private  life 
without  reflecting  strength  to  the  cause. 

5.  Finally,  that  we  all  get  the  mission- 
ary spirit,  that  we  seek  opportunities 
to  teach  the  gospel,  to  distribute  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  to  let  people  know 
what  we  believe.  I  am  having  a  de- 
lightful correspondence  with  a  man  in 
England  with  whom  I  struck  up  con- 
versation on  a  plane  while  flying  across 
the  Atlantic.  He  has  now  read  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  some  of  our 
other  literature.  I  am  pleased  to  note 
a  significant  change  in  his  attitude  to- 
ward the  Church. 

One  of  the  most  fruitful  sources  of 
contact  for  our  missionaries  lies  in 
referrals  sent  to  them.  A  member  of 
the  Church  will  suggest  to  an  asso- 
ciate or  a  relative  that  he  invite  the 
missionaries  to  come  to  his  home. 
President  J.  Leonard  Love  tells  me  that 
in  the  Northern  California  Mission  their 
experience  indicates  that  forty  percent 
of  the  referrals  given  them  join  the 
Church.  Think  of  it!  Forty  percent 
of  the  names  sent  to  them  result  in 
convert  baptisms!  In  the  British  Mis- 
sion at  one  time  it  was  discovered  that 
sixty-eight  percent  of  those  who  had 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


121 


come  into  the  Church  had  made  their 
first  acquaintance  with  the  doctrines 
through  members  of  the  Church. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  assign- 
ment to  teach  the  gospel  belongs  to  all 
of  us,  not  only  to  the  fifty-five  hundred 
devoted  men  and  women  who  presently 


are  serving  in  the  field.  It  belongs  to 
each  of  us,  and  we  shall  not  be  through 
with  it  until  the  Great  Jehovah  shall 
say  the  work  is  done. 

God  help  us  to  sense  and  fulfil  our 
mission  honorably,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


And  now  we  come  to  that  moment 
when  we  should  like  to  express  our 
thanks  and  appreciation.  We  have  had 
a  glorious  conference.  Many  have  con- 
tributed to  its  inspiration  and  success. 
Will  all  who  have  participated  in  the 
inspiration  of  these  gatherings  please 
accept  of  the  gratitude  of  our  hearts. 

The  singing  for  this  session,  as  we 
have  already  informed  you,  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Ricks  College  choir 
under  the  direction  of  Chester  W.  Hill, 
with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 
We  wish  to  express  appreciation  to  these 
young  men  and  women  of  the  Ricks 
College  for  the  hours  they  have  spent 
in  practice  in  weeks  that  have  gone 
by,  resulting  in  the  inspiration  of  their 
singing  to  this  congregation  today.  The 
Lord  bless  you  young  people.  We  are 
proud  of  you  I  We  have  enjoyed  your 
presence  as  well  as  your  inspirational 
singing.  May  the  Lord's  protecting  care 
be  with  you  as  you  go  back  to  your 
homes,  and  may  this  experience  ever 
be  a  happy  memory  for  you,  as  it  will 
be  for  all  of  us. 

I  should  like  to  express  again  our 
appreciation  to  the  Brigham  Young 
University  combined  choruses.  They 
occupied  these  seats  last  Saturday — an- 
other choice  group  of  young  people.  We 
cannot  help  feeling  confident  that  the 
Church  is  in  good  hands  when  we  see 
such  representatives  of  youth  as  have 
participated  in  this  conference. 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  to 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  men's  chorus  for  their 
participation  during  the  various  ses- 
sions of  our  annual  conference.  Forty- 
five  thousand  two  hundred  eighty-seven 
men  of  the  priesthood  were  moved  by 
the  inspirational  singing  of  those  young 
men  from  the  choir  last  Saturday  night. 

We  are  not  unmindful  of  the  public 
press  and  you  reporters  for  your  fair 


and  accurate  reports  throughout  ses- 
sions of  the  conference.  We  want  the 
city  officials  to  know  that  we  are  not 
unmindful  of  the  help  they  have  ren- 
dered during  the  last  five  days,  to  Chief 
W.  Cleon  Skousen,  and  his  associates, 
the  traffic  officers — in  handling  increased 
traffic,  for  the  fire  department,  and 
the  Red  Cross,  who  stood  on  hand 
ready  for  an  emergency;  for  you  taber- 
nacle ushers  who  have  rendered  serv- 
ice early  and  late  in  seating  the  great 
audiences. 

We  are  grateful  for  the  radio  and 
television  service — twenty-seven  televi- 
sion and  twenty  radio  stations  through- 
out our  own  city  and  the  nation  have 
carried  the  messages  of  this  conference 
to  untold  thousands  of  people  who  have 
listened  to  the  proceedings  of  the  One 
Hundred  and  Twenty-ninth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church. 

We  have  already  named  those  who 
have  sent  these  lovely  flowers,  sweet 
messages  of  their  love,  and  best  wishes 
for  a  successful  and  inspirational  con- 
ference. 

The  closing  prayer  of  this  session 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Alfred  E. 
Rohner,  formerly  president  of  the  South- 
west Indian  Mission. 

Now  I  should  like  to  say,  brothers  and 
sisters,  the  Lord  bless  us  with  a  desire 
to  live  better  than  we  have  ever  done 
before.  No  individual  can  go  away 
from  this  conference,  even  as  a  listener, 
without  a  heavier  responsibility  upon 
him.  One  of  the  happiest  experiences 
that  I  have  had  has  been  to  meet  young 
people,  and  hear  the  young  man  or 
young  woman  say,  as  he  or  she  intro- 
duced his  or  her  companion,  "I  want 
you  to  meet  my  friend  who  is  an  in- 
vestigator." And  that  has  happened  fre- 
quently during  this  conference. 

In  1923  in  the  British  Mission  there 


122 

Monday,  April  6 

was  a  general  instruction  sent  out  to 
the  members  of  the  Church  advocating 
what  Brother  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  has 
emphasized  today.  We  did  not  spend 
money  advertising  in  the  press.  The 
feeling  in  England  was  quite  bitter  at 
that  time,  but  we  said:  "Throw  the  re- 
sponsibility upon  every  member  of  the 
Church  that  in  the  coming  year  of 
1923  every  member  will  be  a  missionary. 
Every  member  a  missionary!  You  may 
bring  your  mother  into  the  Church,  or 
it  may  be  your  father;  perhaps  your 
fellow  companion  in  the  workshop. 
Somebody  will  hear  the  good  message 
of  the  truth  through  you." 

And  that  is  the  message  today.  Every 
member — a  million  and  a  half — a  mis- 
sionary! I  think  that  is  what  the  Lord 
had  in  mind  when  he  gave  that  great 
revelation  on  Church  government,  as 
recorded  in  the  107th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  He  describes 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  the 
men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  that 
priesthood,  and  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
and  the  presidency  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  those  who  are  active  in  the 
priesthood  quorums — both  the  Mel- 
chizedek and  the  Aaronic.  He  then 
goes  into  detail  about  the  duties  of 
members  and  concludes: 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand.  Even  so.  Amen." 
(D&C  107:99-100.) 

I  think  that  includes  the  father  of  a 
little  girl  who  sent  a  letter  to  me  this 
week.  She  first  gave  her  age.  She  loved 
her  father  and  mother,  she  said,  but 
"Father  doesn't  take  Mother  to  the 
temple.  I  wish  he  would.  I  love  them 
both,  and  I  want  to  be  sealed  to  them." 
"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty  and  walk  in  the  performance 
of  it  in  all  diligence."  That  is  the  re- 
sponsibility of  every  man  and  woman 
and  child  who  has  listened  to  this  great 
and  wonderful  conference,  to  the  in- 
spiring messages  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  other  General  Authorities. 

God  help  us  to  be  true  to  our  re- 
sponsibility and  to  our  callings,  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

especially  to  the  responsibility  we  bear 
as  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  children 
of  Zion — heaven's  treasures  given  to  us. 

O  Father,  bless  those  who  hold  this 
priesthood,  who  have  been  married  in 
accordance  with  thy  instructions,  and 
God  help  all  to  take  advantage  of  this 
eternal  blessing,  that  we  may  be  united 
together  and  with  thee  forever,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  will  now 
favor  us  with  "The  Lord's  Prayer."  The 
closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Alfred  E.  Rohner,  formerly  president  of 
the  Southwest  Indian  Mission,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  be  adjourned 
for  six  months. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "The 
Lord's  Prayer,"  following  which  the 
benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder 
Alfred  E.  Rohner,  formerly  president  of 
the  Southwest  Indian  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  choral  music  for  the  Saturday 
morning  and  afternoon  sessions  was 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Nor- 
man Gulbrandsen  conducting  at  the 
morning  session  and  Ralph  Woodward 
at  the  afternoon  meeting. 

The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  furnished  the  music  for  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting  Saturday,  April 
4,  with  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

The  music  for  the  Sunday  morning 
and  afternoon  meetings  was  furnished 
by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir, 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting,  assisted 
by  Jay  E.  Welch. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  furnished 
the  choral  music  for  the  Monday  morn- 
ing and  afternoon  sessions,  with  Chester 
W.  Hill  conducting. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast. 
Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy 
M.  Darley. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


CHOIR  AND  OR( 

SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 
BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  9:30  to 
10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  5,  1959, 
through  the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  Organ  played,  "As  the  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the  sec- 
ond line,  and  humming  to  end  of  verse 
for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its 
affiliated  stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

The  Choir  first  turns  to  a  chorus  from 
"The  Creation"  by  Haydn  concerning 
the  goodness  and  beauty  of  the  earth 
that  the  Lord  God  has  given:  "And 
God  saw  everything  that  He  had  made, 
and  behold,  it  was  very  good."  And 
the  heavenly  choir  sang  in  song  divine, 
thus  closed  the  sixth  day:  "Achieved  is 
the  glorious  work  the  Lord  beholds  it, 
and  is  pleased.  In  lofty  strains  let  us 
rejoice,  our  song  let  be  the  praise  of 
God." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Achieved  Is  The 
Glorious  Work."— Haydn.) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  re- 
calls next  the  quiet  and  brooding  beauty 
of  the  northern  night  as  Grieg  left  us 
its  lingering  mood  in  music:  "Noc- 
turne." 

(Organ  Selection:  "Nocturne." 
—Grieg.) 

Announcer:  And  now  from  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  one  of  the  deeply  search- 
ing songs  of  Tschaikowsky — a  song  of 


42V  BROADCAST  123 

heartfelt  longing  and  of  loneliness: 
"Only  the  Sad  of  Heart." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Only  The  Sad  Of 
Heart." — Tschaikowsky. ) 

Announcer:  "I  stand  all  amazed  at 
the  love  Jesus  offers  me,  Confused  at 
the  grace  that  so  fully  he  proffers  me; 
I  tremble  to  know  that  for  me  he  was 
crucified,  That  for  me  a  sinner,  he  suf- 
fered, he  bled  and  died.  Oh,  it  is  won- 
derful that  he  should  care  for  me, 
Enough  to  die  for  mel  Oh,  it  is  won- 
derful, wonderful  to  mel"  Such  are  the 
opening  words  of  the  hymn  by  Charles 
H.  Gabriel. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Stand  All 
Amazed." — Gabriel. ) 

Announcer: 

In  a  moving  and  most  meaningful 
utterance,  the  Master  of  mankind  thus 
prayed  for  those  whom  the  Lord  God 
had  given  him:  "I  pray  not  that  thou 
shouldest  take  them  out  of  the  world, 
but  that  thou  shouldest  keep  them  from 
the  evil."1  This  question  of  being  in 
the  world  but  not  of  it,  is  a  question  of 
increasing  concern — because,  in  effect, 
the  world  is  ever  shrinking  in  size — 
and  we  come  ever  closer  to  the  influence 
and  attitudes  of  others — and  there  is 
ever  more  compelling  pressures  to  be 
as  others  are,  to  do  as  others  do,  with 
questions  of  compromise  and  of  preserv- 
ing principles — how  far  to  go,  how  dif- 
ferent to  be,  how  to  live  comfortably 
among  men.  One  of  life's  most  im- 
portant problems  is  learning  to  get  along 
with  the  people  with  whom  we  live  in 
the  world,  without  compromising  prin- 
ciples, and  one  of  the  plausible  ways  of 
getting  along  with  people  is  to  make 
concessions  pertaining  to  principle — to 
go  the  way  of  the  world,  whatever  way 
that  is,  which  no  one  really  knows,  be- 
cause the  world  has  so  many  different 
ways.  It  is  quite  impossible  to  do 
everything  everyone  else  wants  us  to 
do  or  to  please  all  people,  because 
everyone  else  wants  us  to  do  something 
different,  and  abandoning  principles  is 
no  solution  to  the  problem  of  getting 
along  with  people.  Indeed,  it  is  false 
and  foolish  to  suppose  that  compromis- 
ing principles  will  win  the  respect  or 
acceptance  of  anyone.  Compromising 
principles  isn't  getting  along  with  peo- 
ple; it  is  simply  surrender;  it  is  simply 

~iJohirr7:15. 


124 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


self-betrayal.  And  he  who  betrays  him- 
self is  never  solidly  accepted  or  re- 
spected anywhere  by  anyone.  Others 
often  judge  us  not  so  much  by  their 
standards  as  by  our  own — by  what  they 
know  we  believe — and  we  disappoint 
and  disillusion  other  people  when  we 
depart  from  our  own  principles.  A 
person  who  is  untrue  to  himself  is  sel- 
dom trusted  by  anyone,  ever.  In  his 
famous  essay  on  old  age,  Cicero  said: 
"As  a  general  truth,  as  it  seems  to  me, 
it  is  weariness  of  all  pursuits  that 
creates  weariness  of  life."2  And  one 
thing  that  adds  weariness  and  disillu- 
sionment to  life  is  trying  to  be  all 
things  to  everyone,  instead  of  simply 
trying  to  be  true.  We  lose  face  and 
deceive  ourselves,  when  we  seek  sup- 
posed popularity  or  the  supposed  ap- 
proval of  other  people  at  the  price  of 
principle.  The  only  way  to  get  along 
with  others,  is  to  be  what  we  know  we 
ought  to  be,  to  do  what  we  know  we 
ought  to  do,  to  give  respect  and  to  de- 
serve respect,  and  not  betray  ourselves 
by  compromising  principles. 

(Organ  Selection:  "Earth,  With  Her 
Ten  Thousand  Flowers." — Griggs.) 

Announcer:  With  Alexander  Schreiner 
at  the  organ  we  have  heard  a  hymn 
melody  by  Thomas  C.  Griggs:  "Earth, 
with  her  ten  thousand  flow'rs,  Air,  with 
all  its  beams  and  show'rs,  Heaven's  in- 
finite expanse,  Sea's  resplendent  counte- 
nance, All  around  and  all  above,  Bear 
this  record,  God  is  love." 

And  now  from  Wagner's  Tannhauser, 

2Cicero,  On  Old  Age. 


the  men's  chorus  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  recalls  the  fervent-moving  music 
of  the  "Pilgrim's  Chorus":  "Once  more 
with  joy,  oh  my  home,  I  may  meet 
thee;  once  more,  ye  fair  flowry  meadows, 
I  greet  ye." 

(The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  sang:  "Pilgrim's  Chorus." — 
Wagner.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
closes  from  Temple  Square  with  Evan 
Stephen's  arrangement  of  an  old  hymn 
tune,  and  with  the  words  of  William 
W.  Phelps:  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a 
Fire  Is  BurningI  The  latter-day  glory 
begins  to  come  forth;  The  visions  and 
blessings  of  old  are  returning,  and  An- 
gels are  coming  to  visit  the  earth." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Spirit  of  God 
Like  a  Fire  Is  Burning." — Anon.) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  fifteen  hundred 
forty-sixth  presentation,  continuing  the 
30th  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast 
from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Tem- 
ple Square,  brought  to  you  by  CBS 
Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations,  origin- 
ating with  Radio  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word 
by  Richard  Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 


Page 


Anderson,  Elder  Joseph    88 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    93 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   78 

Bowring,  President  Benjamin  L   38 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   110 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   31 

Changes  in  Church  Officers    88 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast     123 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L  _   12 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report    93 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   5 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   45 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   93 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Clissold,  President  Edward  L   42 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   80 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   115 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   112 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   123 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report   91 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    21 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    93 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    37 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   76 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   119 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R   103 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   63 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   7 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   26 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   66 

Longden,  Elder  John    34 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   117 

McKay,  President  David  0   71 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   48 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   121 

(Closing  Address) 


126 


INDEX 


Page 


McKay,  President  David  O  .,  3,  4,  5,  7,  9,  12,  15,  17,  20,  21,  24, 

26,  29,  31,  34,  37,  38,  42,  45,  46,  48,  50,  51,  56,  58,  60, 
63,  66,  69,  70,  71,  75,  78,  80,  84,  85,  86,  87,  93,  96,  98, 

101,  103,  106,  107,  110,  112,  115,  117,  118,  121,  122. 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   101 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   96 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E  _   85 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    93 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General    37 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    18 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    51 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    46 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   9 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   51 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    70 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W.    60 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   98 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    21 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma    25 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   107 

Statistical  and  Financial  Report  _   91 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    93 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    123 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   56 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting   „   87 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    106 

Turtle,  Elder  A.  Theodore    84 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L  _   15 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   29 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth  _   58 


DESERET  NEWS  PRESS 

Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


