ONE  HUNDRED  SIXTH 

Semi-Annual 

(conference 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAIIVTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  4,  5,  6,  1935 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

PRINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMERICA 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One— 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Sixth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  and  Sixth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  4,  5, 
and  6,  1935. 

Through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  the 
proceedings  of  all  the  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by 
radio  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  each  of  the 
meetings. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  *. 
**,  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins;  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John 
H.  Taylor,  and  Rufus  K.  Hardy. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  high  priests, 
seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Wilf  ord  W.  Richards,  North  Central  States ; 


'John  A.  Widtsoe  absent,  doing  special  work  in  California. 
'*Joseph  F.  Merrill  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Missions. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States;  James  M.  Kirkham,  East  Central 
States ;  LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States ;  James  M.  Peterson, 
Texas;  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Western  States;  Nicholas  G.  Smith,  Cali- 
fornia ;  Joseph  Quinney,  Jr.,  Northwestern  States ;  Abel  S.  Rich, 
Canada;  Harold  W.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Friday  morning, 
April  4,  at  10.00  o'clock. 

When  the  time  arrived  for  opening  the  Conference  the  large  Taber- 
nacle auditorium  and  galleries  were  well  filled  with  people. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Summit  Stake 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Sister  Judith  Anderson  Beard. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  the  Choir  would  sing  the 
hymn,  "Lo,  the  mighty  God  appearing." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn  by  the  Choir,  Elder  A.  Richard 
Peterson,  President  of  the  Emery  Stake,  offered  the  invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "I'll  praise  my  Maker  while  Pve  breath." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  in  again  having  the  opportunity  of  meeting  the  Saints  in 
general  conference.  I  have  always  during  the  past  53  years  enjoyed 
attending  our  annual  and  semi-annual  conferences.  It  fell  to  my  lot  53 
years  ago  this  coming  16th  of  October  to  be  chosen  as  one  of  the  apostles 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  not  the 
language  at  my  command  to  express  the  gratitude  of  my  heart  for  this 
great  honor  that  came  to  me  so  long  ago.  I  was  not  in  the  very  best 
of  health  at  the  time,  in  fact,  I  have  no  hesitancy  in  saying  that  I  am  in 
far  better  health  today,  after  the  expiration  of  53  years,  than  I  enjoyed 
when  that  call  came;  I  can  with  greater  ease  perform  the  duties  that 
devolve  upon  me,  and  without  the  same  fatigue. 

I  recall  that  during  the  first  two  or  three  years  of  my  administration 
as  one  of  the  apostles,  quite  frequently  after  preaching  at  a  quarterly 
conference  two  or  three  times  on  a  Sunday,  I  would  lie  awake  all  night 
because  I  was  so  nervous.  I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  for  the 
vigor  of  body  and  mind  that  I  possess  today,  and  my  gratitude  goes 
out  not  only  to  my  Father  in  heaven  for  the  splendid  health  that  I  enjoy, 
but  it  goes  out  also  to  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  generally.  I 
believe  sincerely  that  because  of  the  faith  and  prayers  and  good-will  of 
the  Saints  my  life  has  been  extended  and  my  health  has  been  improved. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


JOY  IN  LABORS 

I  can  truthfully  say  that  during  all  of  these  years  I  have  had  great 
joy  in  my  labors  in  traveling  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There  is  a 
brotherhood  and  a  love  existing  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
for  one  another  that  I  am  sure  no  other  people  enjoy.  When  I  con- 
template my  reception  as  an  inexperienced  young  man,  not  quite  26 
years  of  age,  when  called  to  this  important  office;  when  1  remember 
the  reverence  and  respect  that  were  accorded  to  me  wherever  I  went, 
notwithstanding  my  lack  of  knowledge  and  information,  my  heart  goes 
out  in  gratitude  to  the  people  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  as  the  years 
have  come  and  gone  I  have  been  thankful  beyond  expression  that  I  have 
never  found  anything  at  home  or  abroad  that  has  weakened  my  faith  in 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged. 

FINDS  MANY  EVIDENCES 

I  am  grateful  on  the  other  hand  that  as  the  years  have  come  and 
gone  I  have  been  constantly  finding  additional  evidences  of  the  divinity 
of  this  work.  There  have  been  many  things  in  my  life,  as  I  am  sure 
there  have  been  in  the  lives  of  you,  one  and  all,  that  have  been  inexplic- 
able to  me;  that  it  has  been  difficult  for  me  to  understand  and  compre- 
hend. But  I  am  a  firm  believer  that  faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  and  I  am 
grateful  indeed  for  the  gift  of  faith  that  has  been  with  me.  When  I 
have  not  comprehended  things  I  have  had  faith  that  some  day  they 
would  be  made  plain  to  me. 

I  remember  that  the  first  time  I  read  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
section  19,  about  eternal  punishment,  and  so  on,  that  I  wept  for  joy 
regarding  the  explanation  therein  given,  that  it  does  not  claim  that  there 
is  no  end  to  punishment. 

I  remember  that  it  was  always  a  remarkable  statement  to  me  that 
"every  ear  should  hear."  I  could  not  understand  how  that  could  be 
possible,  and  yet  I  believed  in  it,  I  had  faith  in  it  and  I  accepted  it 
without  any  doubt.  Radio  has  demonstrated  that  every  ear  can  hear. 
I  have  been  grateful  for  the  opportunity  on  two  different  occasions  of 
having  a  worldwide  broadcast  of  what  I  had  to  say.  I  wondered  how  it 
would  be  possible  that  "every  eye  should  see."  And  yet  I  have  seen 
and  conversed  with  my  daughter  and  my  granddaughter  when  they  were 
miles  away  from  me  at  the  time.  They  were  in  the  laboratories  and  I 
near  the  foot  of  Broadway,  New  York;  they  were  several  miles 
distant,  and  great  buildings  were  between  us.  We  had  no  difficulty  in 
seeing  each  other,  no  difficulty  in  conversing  with  each  other. 

The  one  and  only  thing  for  you  and  me  and  for  every  Latter-day 
Saint  to  do  is  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  sooner  or 
later  those  things  that  may  have  been  inexplicable  and  have  seemed  im- 
possible will  be  demonstrated  to  us. 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FAITH  IN  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

I  am  grateful  that  as  a  young  man  I  had  faith  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  When  I  was  ridiculed  for  believing  in  that  book,  the  person 
saying  that  he  could  point  out  to  me  two  absolute  falsehoods  in  it  that 
could  not  be  gainsaid,  I  told  him  to  go  ahead,  that  pointing  them  out 
did  not  affect  my  faith  nor  in  the  least  degree  lessen  my  reverence  for 
and  my  belief  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  read  it  as  a  young  man  in  my 
teens,  prayerfully  and  humbly,  and  there  came  into  my  heart  the  perfect 
assurance  that  that  book  is  just  exactly  what  is  purports  to  be. 

One  of  the  two  things  that  this  person  said  were  falsehoods  was  that 
there  were  dwellings  built  of  cement  in  early  days  by  the  Nephites  in 
Mexico,  Central  and  South  America,  that  such  a  thing  as  a  cement  dwell- 
ing had  never  been  found,  and  "You  know,"  he  said,  "that  cement  is 
not  so  destructible  as  brick  or  stone,  and  that  if  dwellings  of  cement  had 
been  built  they  would  have  been  found  long  ago." 

I  said:  "That  does  not  affect  my  faith  at  all.  Hundreds  and  hun- 
dreds of  years  have  passed  since  the  Nephites  were  destroyed  and  there 
is  an  abundant  tropical  growth  in  that  country.  If  they  do  not  find  any 
cement  dwellings  during  my  lifetime  I  am  sure  they  will  when  the 
grandchildren  come  along,  if  not  then  they  certainly  will  when  the  great 
grandchildren  come." 

He  said :  "What  is  the  use  of  talking  to  such  a  fool,  who  puts  aside 
an  argument  that  cannot  be  gainsaid,  by  referring  it  to  his  children,  or 
grandchildren,  or  great  grandchildren?" 

HISTORY  BEARS  OUT  FACTS 

What  is  the  subsequent  history?  Within  a  few  miles  from  the  City 
of  Mexico,  less  than  a  hundred,  if  I  remember  correctly,  there  is  a 
great  monument,  the  outside  of  which  was  apparently  covered  with 
cement,  and  it  is  150  per  cent  higher  than  this  building  in  which  we 
are  assembled,  and  instead  of  being  one  hundred  and  odd  feet  by  two 
hundred  and  odd  feet,  it  is  larger  than  this  entire  block,  covering  a  space 
of  eleven  acres,  and  from  the  top  of  that  monument  one  can  see  in  the 
valley  large  mounds  and  as  they  are  uncovered,  lo  and  behold,  they  are 
discovered  to  be  splendidly  built  houses,  with  cement  covered  walls  and 
floor,  showing  a  skill  in  the  use  of  cement  equal  if  not  superior  to  that 
of  today. 

VOICE  HEARD  THROUGHOUT  LAND 

He  said :  "Well,  I  will  give  you  an  argument  that  you  cannot  extend 
the  answer  to  your  children,  your  grandchildren,  or  your  great  grand- 
children. That  book  teaches  that  Jesus  Christ  after  his  resurrection, 
came  to  this  country  and  organized  his  church  and  that  he  spoke  to  the 
people,  and  his  voice  was  heard  all  over  the  land.    Now  you  know  that 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


if  you  were  to  get  up  on  top  of  a  house  and  shout,  your  voice  would 
carry  only  a  few  hundred  feet.   So  you  know  that  is  a  lie." 

I  said :  "I  do  not  know  any  such  thing.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ 
and  others  under  the  direction  of  God  took  the  existing  elements  and 
created  this  earth,  and  I  am  a  firm  believer  that  if  Jesus  Christ  knew 
how  to  create  the  earth  on  which  we  live  he  would  know  how  to  cause 
his  voice  to  go  all  over  the  world  at  one  and  the  same  time." 

He  said :  "I  do  not  care  to  argue  with  such  a  fool." 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  FAITH 

The  radio  has  demonstrated  that  faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  and  I  am 
grateful  that  I  had  it.  I  have  sat  in  my  home  and  listened  to  Admiral 
Byrd  talking  from  the  South  Pole,  there  being  a  little  box  in  the  corner 
that  brought  the  message  to  me,  and  my  heart  has  gone  out  in  gratitude 
that  as  a  young  unmarried  man  my  faith  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  could 
not  be  disturbed  by  the  arguments  of  a  young  man  who  had  his  doctor's 
degree  and  had  graduated  from  a  university,  and  thought  he  had  knocked 
me  out  completely  with  two  of  his  arguments. 

Let  us  get  faith  as  a  people.  Let  us  so  order  our  lives  that  we  are 
entitled  to  an  increase  of  that  faith.  I  am  thankful  that  I  know  of  no 
man  or  woman  who  ever  joined  this  Church  and  attended  his  or  her 
sacrament  meetings,  partaking  of  the  sacrament  in  remembrance  of  the 
suffering  of  our  Savior  and  his  death ;  who  was  honest  and  conscientious 
in  the  payment  of  his  or  her  tithes ;  who  divided  with  the  Lord  as  per- 
fectly as  they  would  ask  the  Lord  to  divide  with  them  if  they  were 
making  up  the  account ;  who  have  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom — I  have 
never  known  such  an  individual  to  lose  his  or  her  faith.  But  I  have  ■ 
seen  men  and  women  apostatize  from  the  Church  and  almost  without 
exception  I  have  seen  that  apostasy  come  upon  them  gradually. 

IN  LINE  OF  DUTY 

When  you  are  in  the  line  of  your  duty  it  is  like  standing  in  front 
of  a  line  of  posts,  and  every  post  is  in  line.  But  step  one  step  aside,  and 
every  post  looks  as  though  it  were  not  quite  in  line.  The  farther  you  get 
away  from  that  straight  line,  the  more  crooked  the  posts  will  appear.  It 
is  the  straight  and  narrow  path  of  duty  that  will  lead  you  and  me  back 
to  the  presence  of  God.  I  am  thankful  that  from  my  youth  until  now 
such  a  thought  as  doubting  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Savior  has 
never  entered  my  head. 

Many  times  I  have  referred  here  to  a  book,  one  of  the  chapters  of 
which  is  entitled  "The  Young  Man  and  the  Pulpit."  The  author  of  the 
book  said  that  a  certain  individual  with  good  opportunities  for  investiga- 
tion asked  every  young  preacher  whom  he  met  during  a  summer  vacation 
— they  being  ministers  in  the  eastern  and  New  England  states — the 
question,  "Do  you  believe  that  Christ  was  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sent  by  him  to  save  the  world ;  that  Christ  was  God's  very  Son,  with  a 
divinely  appointed  and  definite  mission,  dying  on  the  cross  and  raised 
from  the  dead  ?  I  am  not  asking  whether  you  believe  that  he  was  inspired 
in  the  sense  that  the  great  moral  teachers  are  inspired.  No  one  has  any 
doubt  about  that.  But,  yes  or  no,  was  he  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world?" 

I  am  grateful  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  can  answer  yes  to  that 
question.  We  are  all  delighted  that  we  have  that  knowledge.  I  am  sorry 
that  every  one  of  those  ministers  failed  to  answer  yes,  and  that  the  sum 
total  of  those  answers  was  that  he  was  the  greatest  moral  teacher  that 
ever  lived. 

HIS  FAITH  HAS  NOT  BEEN  SHAKEN 

I  am  thankful  that  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  meet  many  men  not  of 
our  faith  in  my  travels.  Before  I  reached  my  twentieth  year  I  worked 
for  five  years  for  people  not  of  our  faith.  My  business  has  been  of 
such  a  character,  representing  insurance  companies,  one  of  them  in 
Canada,  one  of  them  way  off  in  New  Zealand,  one  of  them  in  France 
and  some  in  Great  Britain,  and  others  in  New  York,  San  Francisco, 
Chicago  and  New  Orleans,  and  I  have  come  in  contact  with  many  men  not 
of  our  faith.  I  do  not  remember  having  met  in  any  of  the  offices  of  any 
of  the  companies  I  have  represented  or  among  the  men  who  came  to 
Salt  Lake  as  traveling  representatives  or  officers,  anyone  who  belonged 
to  our  Church,  but  in  all  my  contacts  with  these  people  not  of  my  faith 
I  have  been  grateful  that  nothing  I  have  heard  or  read  or  come  in  con- 
tact with  has  in  the  slightest  degree  lessened  my  faith  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  On  the  contrary,  in  my  contact  with  men,  I  have  been 
finding  evidences  of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

I  call  to  mind  visiting  with  an  assistant  manager  of  that  great  cor- 
poration, the  New  York  Life  Insurance  company  in  London.  This  man 
told  me  he  had  been  connected  with  the  British  legation  at  Constantinople, 
that  he  had  been  in  the  Holy  Land  many  years,  that  he  had  been  in  the 
United  States  and  Canada  many,  many  times. 

CONSTANTLY  FINDING  ADDITIONAL  EVIDENCES 

He  said :  "Do  you  know,  Mr.  Grant,  the  last  time  I  was  in  Canada 
I  went  up  to  the  northern  wilds,  beyond  all  civilization,  where  I  doubt 
that  a  white  man  had  ever  been  before,  among  those  heathen  Indians., 
arid  I  found  there  the  most  inexplicable  thing  in  all  my  life.  I  found 
'  the  exact  duplicate  of  a  Holy  Land  rug,  the  exact  pattern  and  color 
that  I  have  seen  in  Jerusalem,  and,  lo  and  behold,  that  rug  was  woven 
in  little  colored  beads.  How  under  heaven  those  people  way  up  there, 
who  had  never  heard  of  Jerusalem,  could  duplicate  a  Jerusalem  rug 
perfectly,  is  beyond  my  comprehension." 

I  said :  "I  will  send  you  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  which 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


you  will  find  that  the  forefathers  of  the  American  Indians  who  came 
to  this  country  before  Columbus,  came  from  Jerusalem." 

"Well,  well,"  he  said,  "that  explains  the  inexplicable." 

I  am  grateful  that  as  I  have  read  the  creeds,  the  doctrines  and  ideas 
of  other  people  and  other  churches  I  have  never  found  anything  that 
disturbed  my  faith.  On  the  contrary,  day  by  day,  week  by  week,  and 
year  by  year,  I  am  continually  finding  additional  evidences  of  the  divine 
mission  of  the  Savior  and  of  the  divinely  appointed  mission  and  labors  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  am  grateful  indeed  when  I  realize  that  be- 
fore the  Church  was  organized  wonderful  revelations  were  given  stating 
that  the  field  was  ripe  already  to  harvest,  and  when  I  think  of  the  wonder- 
ful harvest  that  was  reaped  in  Hawaii  by  President  George  Q.  Cannon, 
which  country  President  Clark  and  myself  and  others  recently  visited. 
During  the  few  years  he  was  there  he  translated  the  Book  of  Mormon 
into  the  Hawaiian  language,  and  he  baptized  over  3,000  natives.  I  have 
never  been  among  a  people  that  seemed  to  me  to  be  more  sincere,  to  have 
a  greater  love  for  each  other  and  for  the  Gospel,  and  a  greater  reverence 
for  those  who  hold  places  of  honor  in  the  Church  of  Christ  than  I  met  on 
our  recent  visit  to  Hawaii. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

I  am  grateful  for  the  temple  that  has  been  erected  there,  and  for 
the  interest  of  the  people  in  temple  work.  I  am  grateful  for  the  organi- 
zation of  a  stake  of  Zion  there,  which  I  believe  will  be  of  great  spiritual 
benefit  to  the  people.  I  am  very  thankful  for  the  evidences  that  have 
come  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

I  am  grateful  when  reflecting  upon  the  fact  that  Wilford  Woodruff 
baptized  several  thousand  people,  and  that  Orson  Pratt  did  the  same. 
Year  by  year  additional  evidences  have  come  to  me  of  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord  and  the  truth  of  the  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  There  is  absolutely  nothing  in  the  entire  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants by  way  of  commandment  and  exhortation  for  you  and  for  me 
but  what  if  we  performed  those  things  that  the  Lord  desires  us  to  do 
would  be  for  our  benefit.  There  is  not  a  thing  in  them  that  would  not  be 
greatly  to  our  advantage  if  we  would  do  that  which  the  Lord  desires 
us  to  do. 

I  have  been  requested  time  and  time  again — principally  by  anony- 
mous letters — '"For  heaven's  sake  find  a  new  subject,  and  quit  preaching 
so  much  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom." 

NEED  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

Never  in  all  my  life  have  I  thought  and  believed  and  been  convinced 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  need  so  much  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  they 
need  it  today.  Why?  Because  the  whole  United  States  has  discarded 
prohibition.    They  have  gone  back  to  liquor.    This  they  have  done 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


because  the  cry  went  out,  "There  is  more  drunkenness,  there  is  more 
drinking  of  whisky  under  prohibition  than  there  was  before  we  had 
prohibition." 

Pardon  me,  but  all  of  the  advertisements  of  that  kind  were  pure, 
unadulterated  falsehoods.  During  prohibition  I  traveled  up  into  Idaho 
quite  frequently  attending  conferences.  During  all  the  years  of  prohi- 
bition I  never  saw  a  drunken  man  or  woman  while  on  those  trips.  I 
recently  went  up  to  Rexburg  to  dedicate  a  meeting  house.  When  we 
reached  Pocatello  I  had  to  change  from  the  train  to  a  bus  to  go  to  Idaho 
Falls,  and  at  Idaho  Falls  I  changed  again.  Two  men  on  the  bus  were 
drunk.  During  the  fifteen  minutes  that  I  waited  in  Idaho  Falls  I  saw 
three  more  drunken  men.  Men  and  women  by  the  dozens  in  this  city 
have  been  seen  standing  around  in  front  of  one  of  the  principal  places 
where  they  dispense  liquor,  waiting  for  their  chance  to  get  their  liquor. 
I  have  met  drunken  people  in  more  than  one  place  in  Salt  Lake  City 
since  we  did  away  with  prohibition.  Millions  upon  millions  of  dollars  of 
money  were  spent  in  propaganda  which  was  based  on  falsehoods,  to 
bring  back  whisky  to  the  people.  At  a  great  national  convention  the 
people  shouted,  "Hurrah!  Hurrah!  We  want  our  beer;  we  want  our 
beer;  we  want  our  beer!"  And  they  got  it.  Of  course  it  does  not 
intoxicate  anybody  legally,  but  they  are  very  careful  to  keep  the  Indians 
from  drinking  any  of  it  for  fear  they  will  become  intoxicated. 

APPEALS  FOR  INFLUENCE 

Today  I  appeal  to  you,  each  and  all,  to  use  your  influence  at  home 
and  abroad,  to  get  the  people  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  I  am 
going  to  read  it.  It  may  be  that  it  will  be  the  fifty-third  time  in  the 
past  fifty-three  years.  I  think  that  I  have  read  it  at  least  once  a  year, 
if  not  a  half  a  dozen  times. 

"A  Word  of  Wisdom" — you  know  wisdom  is  almost  the  greatest 
thing  in  the  world,  second  only  to  health,  and  this  is  wisdom  from  God, 
not  from  man.    The  wisdom  of  man  is  "beer,  beer,  beer." 

A  Word  of  Wisdom,  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  high  priests, 
assembled  in  Kirtland,  and  the  Church,  and  also  the  saints  in  Zion — 
To  be  sent  greeting ;  not  by  commandment  or  constraint — 

I  have  heard  many  people  say,  "Brother  Grant,  it  is  not  a  com- 
mandment.  That  is  how  I  get  around  it,  and  can  have  my  tea  and  coffee." 

— Not  by  commandment  or  constraint,  but  by  revelation — ■ 
Revelation  from  whom?   Revelation  from  God  Almighty. 

And  the  word  of  wisdom,  showing  forth  the  order  and  will  of  God — 
It  is  the  will  of  God  that  we  take  advantage  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

— In  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  saints  in  the  last  days — 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


AN  ECONOMIC  AID 

I  believe  that  if  every  dollar  of  money  that  is  expended  in  Utah 
for  liquor  and  for  beer,  tea,  coffee  and  tobacco,  were  saved,  Utah  would 
need  no  help  from  the  United  States  government  to  take  care  of  the 
poor,  but  that  peace,  prosperity,  happiness  and  abundance  would  be  given 
to  the  people  of  our  fair  state,  and  of  every  other  state  in  the  Union,  if 
in  addition  we  observed  the  suggestion  by  the  Lord,  which  is  a  very 
wise  one,  that  once  a  month  we  refrain  from  eating  two  meals,  which 
would  be  physically  beneficial  to  every  living  soul,  and  give  the  equiva- 
lent to  help  those  who  are  poor.  It  would  go  far  towards  solving  our 
financial  problems. 

Given  for  a  principle  with  promise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints. 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you :  In  consequence  or 
evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men 
in  the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto 
you  this  word  of  wisdom  by  revelation — ■ 

"evils  AND  designs" 

Evil  and  designs !  Men  hired  to  certify  that  cigarets  do  not  injure 
them  and  never  have  done,  and  I  have  been  told  that  when  you  challenge 
some  of  them  regarding  these  things  they  say,  "Of  course  they  never 
hurt  me,  because  I  have  never  used  any  of  them." 

— In  consequence  of  evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the 
hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days— 

Don't  you  think  it  is  evil  and  conspiring  to  publish  pictures  of  beauti- 
ful women,  using  cigarets,  knowing  as  they  do  that  it  destroys  the  very 
purpose  of  life  ?  We  have  been  warned  against  these  things.  A  billion 
is  beyond  my  comprehension,  and  yet,  if  I  am  not  mistaken,  on  an  aver- 
age of  117,000,000,000  cigarets  per  year  were  used  over  a  period  of 
many  years  in  the  United  States.  A  billion  is  the  equivalent,  if  you 
figure  it  in  dollars,  to  one  dollar  a  minute  for  every  minute  from  the  birth 
of  the  Savior  until  the  late  World  war.  So,  for  a  number  of  years  the 
equivalent  of  117  cigarets  a  minute  has  been  consumed  in  the  United 
States  each  year  for  every  minute  since  the  birth  of  the  Savior. 

FURTHER  COUNSEL  FROM  THE  LORD 

That  inasmuch  as  any  man  drinketh  wine  or  strong  drink  among  you, 
behold  it  is  not  good,  neither  meet  in  the  sight  of  your  Father,  only_  in 
assembling  yourselves  together  to  offer  up  your  sacraments  before  him. 

And,  behold,  this  should  be  wine,  yea,  pure  wine  of  the  grape  Q,f  the 
vine,  of  your  own  make. 

And,  again,  strong  drinks  are  not  for  the  belly,  but  for  the  washing 
of  your  bodies. 

And  again,  tobacco  is  not  for  the  body,  neither  for  the  belly,  and 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  not  good  for  man,  but  is  an  herb  for  bruises  and  all  sick  cattle,  to  be 
used  with  judgment  and  skill. 

And,  again,  hot  drinks  are  not  for  the  body  or  belly. 

And,  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  all  wholesome  herbs  God  hath 
ordained  for  the  constitution,  nature,  and  use  of  man — 

Every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in  the  season 
thereof;  all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving. 

Yea,  flesh  also  of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord, 
have  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  with  thanksgiving ;  nevertheless  they  are 
to  be  used  sparingly ; 

And  it  is  pleasing  unto  me  that  they  should  not  be  used,  only  in  times 
of  winter,  or  of  cold,  or  famine. 

All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  and  of  beasts,  to  be  the 
staff  of  life,  not  only  for  man  but  for  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and  the 
fowls  of  heaven,  and  all  wild  animals  that  run  or  creep  on  the  earth ; 

And  these  hath  God  made  for  the  use  of  man  only  in  times  of  famine 
and  excess  of  hunger. 

All  grain  is  good  for  the  food  of  man ;  as  also  the  fruit  of  the  vine ; 
that  which  yieldeth  fruit,  whether  in  the  ground  or  above  the  ground — ■ 

Nevertheless,  wheat  for  man,  corn  for  the  ox,  and  oats  for  the  horse, 
and  rye  for  the  fowls  and  for  swine,  and  for  all  beasts  of  the  field,  and 
barley  for  all  useful  animals,  and  for  mild  drinks,  as  also  other  grain. 

GREAT  BLESSINGS  PROMISED 

Here  is  the  all-important  point  in  the  entire  revelation: 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel 
and  marrow  to  their  bones ; 

And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures ; 

And  shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint. 
And  I,  the  Lord,  give  unto  them  a  promise,  that  the  destroying  angel 
shall  pass  by  them,  as  the  children  of  Israel,  and  not  slay  them. 

Could  there  be  a  greater  promise  made  to  anyone  than  wisdom  and 
life,  and  that  the  destroying  angel  shall  not  slay  us?  I  can  think  of 
nothing  to  compare  with  it. 

INSPIRATIONAL  TIME  AT  CUMORAH 

I  rejoice  in  the  very  wonderful  time  that  we  had  at  the  dedication 
of  the  monument  on  the  Hill  Cumorah,  in  the  wonderful  turnout  of 
people  who  were  not  of  our  faith,  in  the  splendid  reception  given  to 
us  by  the  people  of  Palmyra,  who  provided  accommodations  at  a 
moderate  charge  for  the  visitors  from  Utah  and  other  sections  of  the 
country,  making  them  feel  at  home._  All  of  the  feelings  of  animosity 
and  hatred  that  existed  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  that  town  in  early 
days  against  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  others  have  entirely  dis- 
appeared. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  that  was  given  to  us 
in  the  dedication  of  that  monument.    I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


I  had  of  being  there  and  offering  the  prayer  at  the  dedication.  I  thank 
the  Lord  for  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  that  was  given  to  me  in 
dedicating  it. 

At  the  close  of  those  three  days  I  was  weary,  I  felt  tired  and  decided 
not  to  speak  that  evening.  But  as  I  listened  to  President  McKay  bearing 
witness  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  speaking  to  the  people,  I  could 
not  resist  the  urgent  desire  to  stand  up  and  pay  a  tribute  to  Joseph 
Smith,  the  man  who  in  the  providences  of  God  was  the  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  of  establishing  again  upon  the  earth 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  could  not  resist  the  temptation  to  pay 
my  tribute  of  respect  to  Brigham  Young,  to  John  Taylor,  to  Wilford 
Woodruff,  to  Lorenzo  Snow,  and  to  Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  have  stood 
at  the  head  of  this  Church  from  the  time  of  its  organization. 

I  rejoice  in  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  given  to  me 
in  speaking  to  those  people  at  Palmyra.  I  rejoice  beyond  my  power  to 
explain  my  feelings  of  gratitude  because  of  the  fifty-three  years  of 
peace,  joy  and  happiness  that  I  have  enjoyed  in  proclaiming  the  Gospel. 
There  is  no  joy  that  is  greater  that  can  come  to  man  than  the  joy  of 
bringing  souls  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  In  the  18th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  find  the  following  regarding  that  subject : 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh ; 
wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him. 

And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men 
unto  him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth! 

Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people, 

And  if  it  should  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying 
repentance  unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how 
great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  Drought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you 
should  bring  many  souls  unto  me! 

JOY  IN  SERVICE 

Think  of  the  joy  of  President  Cannon  in  bringing  three  thousand 
souls  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel !  Think  of  the  joy  that  has  come  to 
•Wilford  Woodruff  and  Orson  Pratt,  who  brought  nearly  that  same 
number  into  the  Church. 

I  rejoice  beyond  my  power  of  expression  in  the  pleasure  that  has 
come  to  me  in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales,  Germany,  France,  Bel- 
gium, Holland,  Switzerland,  Italy,  Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  Canada, 
Mexico,  Hawaii,  and  far-off  Japan,  in  lifting  up  my  voice  in  all  humility, 
proclaiming  that  I  know,  as  I  know  I  live,  that  God  lives ;  that  I  know 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  the  Savior  of  mankind ;  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was 
a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God  of  bringing  to  the  earth  again  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  and 
that  all  the  men  who  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  have  been  called  to 
stand  at  the  head  of  this  Church  were  in  very  deed  called  of  God,  and 
the  servants  of  God  in  laboring  for  truth  here  upon  the  earth. 

May  God  help  you  and  me  and  every  soul  that  has  a  knowledge 
that  he  lives,  that  Jesus  is  our  Redeemer,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the 
instrument  of  Almighty  God  in  restoring  again  the  Gospel,  so  to  live  it 
and  so  to  keep  his  commandments  that  our  lives  will  proclaim  it,  and 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

At  President  Grant's  request  the  audience  arose  and  sang  one  verse 
of  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  attended  a  stake  conference  a  number  of  years  ago  and  spoke  on 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  At  the  close  of  the  conference  a  good  sister 
came  up  somewhat  excited  and  said :  "Brother  Smith,  you  never  said  a 
word  about  backbiters  and  fault-finders,  and  I  think  it  is  far  worse  to 
bear  false  witness  and  to  backbite  than  it  is  to  drink  a  cup  of  tea." 

I  said:  "I  think  I  can  say  things  just  as  emphatic  perhaps  about 
backbiters  as  I  can  about  people  who  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  but 
I  did  not  have  that  for  a  subject  this  afternoon." 

When  I  went  to  the  rear  of  the  building  nearly  everybody  had  left, 
but  a  man  held  out  his  hand  and  said : 

"Brother  Smith,  that  is  the  first  discourse  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
that  I  ever  liked." 

I  said:  "Haven't  you  heard  other  discourses  on  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom?" 

He  said:  "Yes,  but  this  is  the  first  one  that  I  ever  enjoyed." 
I  said :  "How  is  that?" 

He  said :  "Well,  you  see,  I  am  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom  now." 
I  will  not  be  offended,  nor  will  I  cease  to  rejoice  whenever  President 
Grant  feels  to  speak  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

SCRIPTURAL  PROMISES  TO  OBEDIENT 

I  want  to  read  to  you  a  few  verses  from  a  very  important  revelation 
given  to  the  Church  in  1831.  This  was  given  to  those  who  had  assembled 
in  Zion,  meaning  of  course  Jackson  County,  Missouri.  The  Lord  said 
unto  them : 

Behold,  blessed,  saith  the  Lord,  are  they  who  have  come  up  unto  this 
land  with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory,  according  to  my  commandments. 

For  those  that  live  shall  inherit  the  earth,  and  those  that  die  shall  rest 
from  all  their  labors,  and  their  works  shall  follow  them;  and  they  shall 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


13 


receive  a  crown  in  the  mansions  of  my  Father,  which  I  have  prepared  for 
them. 

Yea,  blessed  are  they  whose  feet  stand  upon  the  land  of  Zion,  who  have 
obeyed  my  gospel;  for  they  shall  receive  for  their  reward  the  good  things 
of  the  earth,  and  it  shall  bring  forth  in  its  strength. 

And-  they  shall  also  be  crowned  with  blessings  from  above,  yea,  and 
with  commandments  not  a  few,  and  with  revelations  in  their  time — they 
that  are  faithful  and  diligent  before  me. 

Wherefore  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  saying  thus :  Thou  shalt 
love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and 
strength;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve  him. 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  Thou  shalt  not  steal;  neither 
commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  anything  like  unto  it. 

Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things. 

Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness, 
even  that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the 
world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day; 

For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors, 
and  to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High ; 

Nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be  offered  up  in  righteousness  on  all  days 
and  at  all  times. 

I  have  read  quite  a  large  portion  of  this  revelation.  I  think  it  is 
very  important.  The  Lord  here  promises  those  people  who  gathered  in 
Zion — and  I  think  the  promise  is  just  as  good  for  us  today — that  if  they 
would  keep  his  commandments,  he  would  pour  out  upon  them  the  bless- 
ings of  heaven  and  the  blessings  of  the  earth. 

BLESSINGS  FORFEITED 

The  world  has  been  in  distress.  Why?  Because  of  selfishness, 
greed,  and  unrighteousness,  because  they  have  forsaken  the  God  of  this 
land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ.  We  would  have  good  crops  and  abundant 
crops  if  we  would  serve  the  Lord.  We  would  not  be  in  distress  finan- 
cially and  in  our  substance,  if  we  would  hearken  unto  these  command- 
ments, because  we  have  the  word  of  the  Lord  for  it.  He  has  made  the 
promise.  We  have  failed  to  heed  the  instruction. 

Moreover  he  says  in  this  revelation  that  he  would  give  unto  us 
commandments  not  a  few.  I  am  not  afraid  of  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  And  he  says  that  he  would  give  us  revelations  in  their  time.  I  am 
not  afraid  of  the  revelations  from  him.  I  sometimes  tremble  about 
revelations  from  men,  and  commandments  coming  from  men,  but  not 
from  the  Lord.  And  yet  the  Lord  is  holding  back  from  us  revelations 
and  commandments  pertaining  to  our  welfare  and  salvation  because  we 
will  not  hearken  unto  that  which  has  already  been  given. 

WHEREIN  WE  HAVE  FAILED 

The  President  of  the  Church  stood  where  I  am  standing  now  and 
pleaded  with  the  people  more  than  once  to  uphold  and  sustain  the  law 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  God  in  regard  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  protect  the  people  who 
needed  the  protection,  and  we  ignored  his  counsel.  That  was  not  pleasing 
in  the  sight  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  some  of  us  need  to  repent,  we 
need  to  turn  unto  the  Lord  and  serve  him  more  faithfully  in  many  ways. 
We  are  not  keeping  his  commandments  as  we  ought  to  do.  I  have  in 
mind  what  I  just  read  in  regard  to  the  Sabbath  day.  We  are  commanded 
to  do  certain  things  and  none  other  upon  this  day,  and  we  do  not  do 
those  things,  and  we  do  things  that  we  are  commanded  to  abstain  from 
doing. 

A  week  or  two  ago  I  attended  a  conference  in  the  Grant  stake  taber- 
nacle, it  was  the  Cottonwood  stake  conference.  In  going  down  Ninth 
South  to  get  to  that  meeting  place,  it  was  all  I  could  do  to  pass  down  the 
street  in  an  automobile  in  front  of  a  certain  park  which  had  been  dedi- 
cated as  a  playground,  because  of  the  people  who  were  assembled  there. 
I  do  not  know  how  many.  Farther  on  others  were  assembled,  engaged 
in  sports  on  the  Sabbath  day.  I  took  it  for  granted,  and  I  believe  I  am 
right,  that  many  of  those  people  were  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

PLEA  FOR  SABBATH  OBSERVANCE 

I  plead  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  observe  the  Sabbath 
day  and  keep  it  holy.  This  is  one  of  the  great  Ten  Commandments  the 
Lord  has  given,  and  do  not  get  the  idea  that  this  commandment  was  a 
part  of  the  law  of  Moses  which  was  done  away  in  Christ.  The  Decalogue 
was  older  than  Moses,  it  continued  after  Moses  passed  away.  The  Lord 
has  reiterated  these  commandments,  he  has  renewed  them  and  com- 
manded us  in  our  day  to  observe  them  and  keep  them  sacredly  and  holy, 
and  therefore  I  plead  with  you. 

We  ought  not  to  be  playing  baseball  on  the  Sabbath  day.  We  ought 
not  to  be  going  to  the  resorts,  we  ought  to  keep  away  from  these  picture 
houses  on  the  Sabbath  day.  It  was  my  privilege  some  years  ago  to  go 
through  the  East  Central  States  Mission.  In  the  city  of  Goldsborough, 
on  the  Sabbath  day,  we  were  granted  the  use  of  the  leading  show  house, 
the  best  one  in  the  city,  in  which  to  hold  our  meetings,  three  of  them, 
morning,  afternoon  and  night,  without  any  charge.  It  was  free  for  us  to 
hold  religious  services  and  closed  against  the  amusements  which  were  in 
that  house  all  other  days  of  the  week.  The  people  were  quiet,  there  were 
no  great  gatherings  on  the  streets,  in  the  parks,  or  shouting  at  baseball 
games  or  other  sports.  The  people  were  quietly  engaged  in  prayer  and 
going  to  their  churches.  I  thought,  Why  can't  we  have  that  among 
our  own  people  in  the  West  ?  I  felt  somewhat  ashamed.  We  cannot  do 
anything,  it  seems,  today  in  the  way  of  sports,  unless  we  have  to  include 
such  sports  on  the  Sabbath  day.  When  we  want  to  engage  in  skiing, 
to  find  men  to  enter  the  Olympics,  it  appears  that  we  have  to  do  it  on  the 
Sabbath  day.  When  we  dedicate  a  park  or  playground  in  this  city,  we 
think  we  have  to  do  it  on  the  Sabbath  day.  Our  hunting  and  fishing 
season  must  begin  on  the  Sabbath  day. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


15 


A  PROPER  OBSERVANCE  OF  THE  SABBATH 

These  things  are  displeasing  in  the  sight  of  God,  and  I  speak  not 
merely  for  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  for  all  good  Christian  people.  If 
they  believe  in  the  words  of  Christ,  in  the  words  of  the  scripture,  then 
they  ought  to  sanction  what  I  am  saying,  and  when  we  turn  from  the 
commandments  the  Lord  has  given  unto  us  for  our  guidance  then  we 
do  not  have  a  claim  upon  his  blessings. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said : 

To  observe  the  Sabbath  day  properly  is  the  plain  duty  of  every  Latter- 
day  Saint — and  that  includes  the  young  men  and  young  women  and  the 
boys,  and  girls.  It  may  seem  strange  that  it  should  be  necessary  to  repeat 
this  often-asserted  fact.  But  there  appear  to  be  some  people,  and  some- 
times whole  communities,  who  neglect  this  duty,  and  therefore  stand  in 
need  of  his  admonition. 

What  are  we  required  to  do  on  the  Sabbath  Day?  The  revelations 
of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  are  very  plain  on  this  subject,  and 
these  should  govern  us,  for  they  are  in  strict  harmony  with  the  teachings 
of  the  Savior.    Here  are  some  of  the  simple  requirements : 

The  Sabbath  is  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors. 

The  Sabbath  is  a  special  day  for  you  to  worship,  to  pray,  and  to  show 
zeal  and  ardor  in  your  religious  faith  and  duty — to  pay  devotions  to  the 
Most  High. 

The  Sabbath  day  is  a  day  when  you  are  required  to  offer  your  time 
and  attention  in  worship  of  the  Lord,  whether  in  meeting,  in  the  home, 
or  wherever  you  may  be — that  is  the  thought  that  should  occupy  your 
mind.  *  *  * 

The  Lord  is  not  pleased  with  people  who  know  these  things  and  do 
them  not.  *  *  * 

Men  are  not  showing  zeal  and  ardor  in  their  religious  faith  and  duty 
when  they  hustle  off  early  on  Sunday  morning  in  cars,  in  teams,  in  automo- 
biles, to  the  canyons,  the  resorts,  and  to  visit  friends  or,  places  of  amuse- 
ment, with  their  wives  and  children.  They  are  not  paying  their  devotions 
in  this  way  to  the  Most  High. 

There  is  a  good  deal  more  of  this  that  I  could  read  if  there  were  time 
We  know  our  duty ;  we  know  what  the  Lord  expects  of  us.  How  can 
we  expect  his  blessing  and  to  be  in  harmony  and  fellowship  with  him  if 
we  ignore  his  commandments  which  are  given  for  our  guidance  and  for 
our  temporal  as  well  as  for  our  spiritual  salvation? 

NEED  FOR  REPENTANCE 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  let  us 
observe  the  Fast  day,  and  fast  and  pay  into  the  Church  in  offerings  what 
would  be  equal  to  what  we  would  consume  if  we  should  eat.  Let  us 
pray  to  the  Father  on  our  knees.  We  are  not  praying  enough.  We  are 
not  giving  the  attention  to  the  commandments  that  we  ought  to  give.  We 
need  repentance,  and  I  plead  with  you,  let  us  go  forth  in  the  spirit  of 
humiliation  and  with  the  contrite  spirit  and  the  broken  heart  of  which 
the  Lord  speaks  in  this  revelation.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  greet  you 
in  conference  and  to  be  able  to  participate  with  you  in  the  spirit  of  this 
occasion.  I  am  sure  that  our  Eternal  Father  is  pleased  with  all  those 
who  support  him  in  the  establishment  of  his  purposes  in  the  earth.  His 
revelations  are  not  understood  so  fully  perhaps  as  they  might  be,  but  I 
think  that  the  majority  of  men  and  women  in  the  Church  are  giving  atten- 
tion to  his  plan  and  are  endeavoring  to  conform  their  lives  to  it. 

The  history  of  this  Church  is  a  most  interesting  one.  There  is 
nothing  to  compare  with  it  in  the  world.  In  the  building  up  of  the 
Lord's  great  work  in  the  earth  there  has  not  been  a  break  since  the  days 
of  his  appearance  to  the  boy  prophet,  when  he  introduced  his  Son,  and 
when  he  planned  the  organization  of  the  Church ;  there  has  been  a  steady 
advancement  of  his  purposes  among  his  people.  The  building  of  a  great 
commonwealth,  the  establishment  of  homes  and  cities,  of  stakes,  wards, 
branches,  where  people  reverence  the  Lord,  the  spread  of  missionary 
work — these  things  all  indicate  the  progress  that  has  been  made. 

There  has  never  been  a  change  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church.  When 
I  read  the  sermons  that  have  been  delivered,  when  I  listen  to  men  preach 
today,  when  I  listen  to  missionaries  in  their  testimonies  I  can  see  the 
same  common  teacher,  the  same  common  spirit  all  through  the  period  of 
years  during  which  this  Church  has  existed.  It  is  true  that  men  and 
women  will  not  observe  the  things  the  Lord  wants  them  to  do  as  fully  as 
they  might.  Temptation  is  on  every  hand.  There  are  many  things  to 
lead  men  and  women  and  boys  and  girls  astray,  but  the  Lord's  plan  will 
prevail,  for  his  word  is  sure  and  certain,  and  men  will  finally  comprehend 
the  plan  that  has  been  inaugurated  by  him. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  in  all  parts  of  the  world  is  a  testimony  to 
men  who  make  investigation.  There  can  be  no  objection  raised  by  any 
man,  I  feel  sure,  who  will  sincerely  consider  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
that  are  taught  by  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  by  the  lay-members  of 
the  Church  in  all  the  world.  In  the  hearts  of  all  good  men  and  women 
there  are  desires  for  righteous  living.  There  is  faith  among  men. 
Prayers  are  poured  out  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  his  help  and  for 
his  guidance.  And  the  principles  pf  truth  that  he  has  revealed  appeal 
to  the  desires  and  needs  of  all  who  honestly  investigate. 

The  Lord  said,  when  he  was  in  the  ministry,  to  those  people  to 
whom  he  was  speaking,  that  every  plant  that  is  not  planted  by  our 
Heavenly  Father  shall  be  rooted  up,  every  doctrine  that  is  taught,  every 
principle  that  is  introduced  into  the  world  that  does  not  come  from  him 
shall  be  rooted  up  and  cannot  stand.  It  is  only  the  word  of  the  Lord  that 
can  stand.  The  men  who  believe  that  our  Eternal  Father  is  a  great  spirit 
without  body  or  parts  must  have  revealed  to  them  some  day  the  truth. 
They  cannot  walk  into  the  presence  of  God  under  such  a  belief.  Men 
who  say  there  is  no  Hereafter  in  the  family  organization,  that  there 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


17 


cannot  be  and  is  not  a  continuation  of  the  marriage  relation  beyond  the 
grave,  must  be  informed,  for  they  cannot  enter  into  the  presence  of  the 
Lord  until  they  understand  these  things. 

The  living  monuments  that  we  are  acquainted  with — those  that  we 
read  of  in  history,  and  that  we  individually  know — are  evidences  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work  to  men  and  women  who  are  honest  in  their  hearts. 
Brigham  Young,  who  led  the  people  into  this  country,  is  recognized  by 
every  one  who  visits  this  land  and  this  city  from  other  places,  as  a  great 
leader,  and  as  one  whose  works  must  have  been  under  divine  guidance. 
Men  who  listen  to  the  sermons  President  Grant  preaches  cannot  but  be 
impressed  with  their  psychology  and  sound  doctrine  and  must  feel  the 
inspiration  directing  them. 

Faith  is  taught  in  this  Church  today  as  it  was  in  the  beginning.  The 
people  of  the  world  need  to  have  faith  taught  to  them,  and  it  must  be 
exercised  by  the  people  in  the  Church,  by  men  and  women  who  profess  to 
know  God.  It  must  be  shown  in  their  lives  that  they  have  faith  in  God 
and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ;  that  they  believe  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
and  that  they  believe  in  divine  revelation,  for  after  all  the  great  fact  upon 
which  this  Church  is  founded  is  the  revelation  of  God  our  Eternal 
Father  as  it  came  to  Joseph  the  Prophet  in  the  beginning. 

As  I  stated  before,  there  is  nothing  so  interesting  as  the  history  of 
this  Church,  both  the  doctrinal  and  the  historical  parts  of  it.  There  is 
nothing  to  equal  it  in  all  the  world,  and  I  invite  men  and  women  every- 
where to  read  the  record  that  the  Church  has  made  as  a  body.  They 
will  have  to  conclude  that  no  man  or  set  of  men  could  lead  men  and 
women  as  this  Church  has  been  led  except  God  be  with  them.  It  could 
not  be  done  by  man  alone.  Men  would  fail,  their  doctrines  would  fail, 
but  the  Lord  is  with  this  Church  as  he  has  been  with  his  children  in 
former  times.  From  the  days  of  Adam  until  now  he  has  led  his  people, 
whenever  he  has  had  a  people  in  the  earth  who  would  serve  him. 

We  do  not  expect  that  we  are  going  to  be  perfect  here  in  mortality, 
but  we  hope  to  go  on  to  perfection,  to  overcome  our  weaknesses,  to  be 
lenient  and  kind  to  each  other,  and  to  stand  for  the  thing  that  we  know 
is  right  and  try  our  very  best  to  get  others  to  think  along  the  same  line. 
Again  I  say,  if  men  would  only  read  the  doctrines  of  this  Church,  I 
don't  care  who  they  are,  if  they  would  read  a  little  every  day  and  then 
make  an  investigation  themselves  as  to  whether  this  thing  is  right,  I  am 
sure  there  would  be  a  change  in  the  hearts  of  thousands  of  people. 

These  western  hills  are  made  for  men  and  women  to  live  in.  Our 
Eternal  Father  led  our  people  here.  Yet  the  strength  of  God  is  not  in  the 
hills  and  in  the  rocks  and  the  stones,  but  is  vested  in  his  sons  and  daugh- 
ters in  these  great  valleys  of  the  mountains.  Here  is  his  priesthood. 
His  power  is  here,  and  here  is  where  his  resource  lies,  and  here  is  where 
he  lives  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 

It  is  our  privilege  and  duty  to  lead  all  whom  we  can  into  the  way  of 
salvation.  We  must  help  them  to  think  and  act  and  live  so  that  they  may 
receive  the  blessings  of  our  Eternal  Father.   We  ask  them  to  investigate 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  plain  statements  that  we  make  so  that  they  may  know  for  them- 
selves the  things  that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  begin  to  plan  for  them- 
selves to  live  beyond  the  grave,  where  their  glory  will  be.  May  we 
ourselves  live  so  that  we  may  measure  up.  May  we  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  glorify  him,  knowing  that  he  is  our  Father,  I  pray  in 
Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "In  our  Redeemer's  name,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

For  mankind,  it  has  been  observed,  there  are  five  great  destructive 
forces,  namely,  poverty,  war,  disease,  crime  and  intemperance.  It  is 
concerning  intemperance  that  I  desire  to  speak  on  this  occasion. 

One  of  America's  greatest  newspapers  has  stated  that  the  liquor 
business  has  been  the  devoted  and  intimate  ally  of  every  vicious  element 
in  American  life,  that  it  has  protected  criminals,  fostered  the  social  evil 
and  has  succeeded  in  bribing  politicians  and  juries,  and  legislatures  in 
every  part  of  our  fair  land. 

"billions  for  rum" 

For  prohibition  the  Church  stood  strong.  It  has  been  said  that 
in  1915  we  were  expending  "billions  for  rum,"  and  that  in  1930  as  a 
result  of  Prohibition  we  were  expending  those  billions  for  homes  and 
better  living.  It  looks  now  as  if  we  have  already  returned  to  the  old 
standard  of  "billions  for  rum." 

Thinking  Latter-day  Saints  surely  do  not  need  to  be  told  that  the 
standards  of  the  Church  remain  unchanged  and  that  these  require 
Church  members  to  abstain  from  the  use  of  all  alcoholic  beverages  in- 
cluding beer.  This  Church  does  and  must  and  will  forever  stand  firmly 
against  the  use  of  beer,  cocktails  and  every  other  beverage  containing 
this  poisonous  narcotic,  alcohol,  which  I  designate  our  nation's  public 
enemy  number  one. 

THE  FOUR  GREAT  HEALTH  SCOURGES 

Dr.  Bogen,  authority  on  the  symptoms,  causes  and  nature  of  dis- 
eases says,  "No  other  poison  causes  so  many  deaths  or  leads  to  or  inten- 
sifies so  many  diseases,  both  physical  and  mental,  as  does  alcohol."  Dr. 
Weeks,  great  English  authority,  cites  four  British  medical  writers  who 
name  alcoholism  as  one  of  the  four  great  health  scourges  of  modern 
civilization.  Cancer,  tuberculosis  and  venereal  diseases  are  the  other 
three.  It  hardly  seems  possible,  that  any  human  being  of  moderate 
intelligence  could  be  induced  knowingly  to  expose  himself  to  the  ravages 
of  any  one  of  these  four  scourges.   And  yet  every  glass  of  beer,  every 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


19 


cocktail  or  taste  of  any  other  alcoholic  liquor  is  an  exposure  to  the  first 
named  of  these  four  terrible  scourges. 

DAVID  STARR  JORDAN'S  VIEW 

In  our  Church  organizations  we  propose  to  continue  to  struggle  to 
teach  young  people  that  alcohol  is  a  habit-forming  drug,  that  the  first 
drink  is  the  easiest  to  resist ;  and  that  while  a  few  seem  to  use  liquor  with 
little  apparent  harm,  yet  by  its  use  no  one  is  ever  made  more  efficient 
or  more  skilful  or  does  more  or  better  work,  while  by  its  use  untold 
thousands,  many  of  them  the  ablest  and  most  promising,  have  been 
ruined.  When  the  truth  concerning  this  public  enemy  number  one  is 
thoroughly  understood,  when  its  harmful  effects  on  both  health  and 
character  are  realized,  its  use  will  be  avoided  and  prohibited  with  the 
same  vigorous  unanimity  with  which  we  now  prohibit  the  use  of  mor- 
phine. 

David  Starr  Jordan  says :  "The  basis  of  intemperance  is  the  effort 
to  secure  through  drugs  the  feeling  of  happiness  when  happiness  does 
not  exist.  *  *  * 

"There  is  nothing  more  hopeless  than  the  ineffective  remorse  of 
a  man  who  drinks  and  wishes  that  he  did  not.  *  *  *  Men  drink  to 
forget.  They  drink  to  be  happy.  They  drink  to  be  drunk.  Sometimes 
it  is  a  periodical  attack  of  madness.  Sometimes  it  is  a  chronic  thirst. 
Whichever  it  is,  its  indulgence  destroys  the  soundness  of  life ;  it  destroys 
accuracy  of  thought  and  action ;  it  destroys  wisdom  and  virtue ;  it  des- 
troys faith  and  hope  and  love." 

ALCOHOL  AND  THE  DEATH  RATE 

The  drinker  not  only  thinks  he  is  not  harmed  by  taking  his  first 
drink  but  he  thinks  he  is  more  clever,  witty,  skilful  and  competent.  He 
does  not  realize  that  drinking  has  brought  shame  and  illness  and  death 
to  uncounted  millions  and  unspeakable  sorrow  to  those  related  to  these 
millions.  The  effect  of  alcohol  is  to  paralyze  judgment  and  the  paralysis 
begins  with  the  first  glass. 

In  1917  for  the  benefit  of  43  life  insurance  companies  a  study  was 
made  which  covered  the  records  of  two  million  policy  holders  for  a 
period  of  23  years  and  the  conclusion  reached  is  that  alcohol  invariably 
produces  a  higher  death  rate. 

This  national  public  enemy  of  which  I  speak  is  no  respecter  of 
persons.  To  him  rank  and  station  mean  nothing.  There  is  no  man  so 
rich  that  this  public  enemy  cannot  take  from  him  his  fortune ;  no  brain 
so  brilliant  that  liquor  cannot  reduce  its  chances  of  success ;  no  human 
body  so  full  of  health  that  by  drink  its  life  cannot  be  materially  shortened. 

One  manager  of  a  large  business  institution  said  recently,  "Our 
greatest  trouble  today  is  with  liquor."  Another  said,  "We  can't  have 
this  woman  in  our  institution.    She  actually  comes  to  work  drunk."  A 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


man  came  to  me  for  help  recently  because  he  had  lost  his  position.  He 
had  been  discharged  for  drunkenness  and  he  was  drunk  when  in  tears  he 
made  his  appeal  to  me  in  the  interest  of  his  wife  and  children.  Officers 
tell  me  that  rarely  does  an  accident  involving  two  automobiles  occur  when 
the  occupants  of  one  or  both  of  them  have  not  been  drinking. 

"I'll  give  you  a  thousand  dollars  in  cash  if  you  will  only  quit,"  said 
a  rich  man  to  his  young  friend.  Later  the  young  man  replied,  "I've 
tried.   I've  done  my  best.   I  am  defeated.   I  cannot  quit." 

WHOM  SHALL  WE  FOLLOW 

And  this  serious  drinking  and  drunken  condition  is  found  every- 
where. Are  we  the  people  of  this  great  nation  whose  motto  is  "In  God 
We  Trust,"  are  we  the  people  of  this  land  of  liberty  who  sing,  "Protect 
us  by  thy  might,  great  God  our  King,"  are  we  in  this  chosen  land  follow- 
ing the  example  of  a  drunken  few  who  are  swinging  their  bottles  and 
shouting  for  liquor,  or  are  we  following  the  example  of  our  Pilgrim 
fathers  who,  Bible  in  hand,  wended  their  way  to  their  places  of  worship 
and  there  upon  bended  knees  prayed  for  strength  to  resist  temptation? 

Where  are  those,  our  so-called  patriotic  and  country-loving  friends 
and  neighbors,  who  before  the  repeal  of  Prohibition  announced  repeatedly 
that  repeal  would  improve  conditions?  I  have  not  been  able  to  see  im- 
provement nor  have  I  been  able  to  find  others  who  think  conditions  are 
better. 

OUR  GREATEST  ENEMY 

The  man  who  has  become  an  addict  to  drink  is  powerless  to  help 
himself.  He  has  lost  the  faculties  of  will  and  self-control.  There  are 
other  substances  which,  in  one  or  more  ways,  act  something  like  alco- 
hol upon  the  human  system,  but  in  the  three  particulars  which  make  it 
our  greatest  enemy,  alcohol  stands  alone.  First,  it  is  easy  to  manufac- 
ture ;  second,  it  is  easy  to  take — it  is  drinkable ;  and  third,  it  deceives 
the  drinker  in  its  effects  upon  himself.  In  this  matter  of  coping  with 
the  drinking  habit,  we  the  people  of  the  Church  can  only  succeed,  as 
can  the  people  of  the  nation  also,  if  unitedly  and  firmly  we  stand  for 
abstinence,  yes,  total  abstinence,  as  well  as  for  reformation. 

NOT  INTERESTED  IN  DRUNKEN  PRATTLE 

Some  people  used  to  think  that  a  few  drinks  of  liquor  made  the 
tongue  wag  more  f r.eely  and  therefore  made  conversation  more  interest- 
ing ;  but  today,  in  this  age  of  scholarship  and  intelligence,  no  wise  man 
nor  even  the  average  man  of  ordinary  intelligence  is  interested  in  the 
prattle  and  nonsense  of  a  man  who  is  drunk.  No  man  would  care  to 
spend  his  time  with  his  most  intimate,  his  closest,  his  most  beloved 
friend,  if  that  friend  were  drunk  or  even  tipsy. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


21 


Robert  G.  Ingersoll  appreciating  the  seriousness  of  the  use  of  liquor 
said,  "I  believe  that  alcohol  to  a  certain  degree  demoralizes  those  who 
make  it,  those  who  sell  it  and  those  who  drink  it." 

LET  US  BE  ORTHODOX 

I  appeal  to  you  Latter-day  Saints  to  stand  by  our  Church  stand- 
ards, to  live  in  accordance  with  Church  ideals.  May  we  be  able  to  say 
always,  "Latter-day  Saints  do  not  drink  liquor ;  therefore,  I  being  a 
Latter-day  Saint  do  not  drink."  Let  us  be  orthodox.  Being  orthodox 
should  mean  that  this  and  many  other  questions  will  always  be  answered 
for  us  in  advance  as  we  travel  along  life's  journey.  When  others  parti- 
cipate in  social  drinking,  let  us  stand  by  our  ideals  and  standards  with  • 
out  having  to  stop  and  come  to  a  decision.  Let  it  be  cleared  up  and  settled 
in  our  minds  once  and  for  always  that  being  Latter-day  Saints  we  never 
drink. 

LIQUOR  LAWS  SHOULD  BE  ENFORCED 

With  many  of  my  friends  in  and  out  of  the  Church  I  stood  for 
Prohibition  as  vigorously  as  I  knew  how  to  stand.  I  thought  then  and 
think  still  that  Prohibition  will  finally  prove  to  be  the  ultimate  solution 
to  the  liquor  question.  But  living  in  a  country  where  the  majority  rules 
I  now  stand  with  equal  positiveness  for  the  enforcement  of  our  present 
laws.  It  was  said  that  if  Prohibition  were  repealed  all  good  citizens 
would  unite  in  an  effort  to  eliminate  the  bootlegger,  to  eliminate  drunken- 
ness and  drunken  driving,  to  enact  and  to  enforce  laws  that  would  keep 
liquor  from  minors  and  from  those  weak  adults  who  spend  for  whiskey 
the  money  their  children  and  their  wives  need  for  food,  clothing  and 
education. 

I  now  appeal  to  you  and  to  all  other  good  citizens  to  unite  and  help 
enforce  the  laws  which  have  been  enacted  for  the  regulation  of  the  liquor 
traffic.  I  appeal  for  the  election  to  office  in  every  branch  of  our  govern- 
ment those  who  live  in  accordance  with  the  law  and  those  who  favor  its 
enforcement.  Will  you  be  good  citizens  and  go  to  the  primaries  and  to 
the  polls  and  help  as  best  you  can  to  see  to  it  that  no  one  is  elected  to 
public  office  who  owes  allegiance  to  the  liquor  traffic  or  to  any  of  its  allied 
evils  ? 

THE  WAY  TO  STRENGTH  AND  POWER 

If  we  would  have  the  strength  of  the  Puritan  we  must  hold  to  the 
practises  of  the  Puritan ;  we  must  have  in  our  hearts  a  hatred  for  that 
which  is  evil.  The  way  that  leads  to  strength  and  power  has  ever  been 
and  will  always  be  straight,  stony  and  stormy.  It  will  ever  remain  true 
that  the  paths  that  are  easy  and  flowery  often  lead  to  weakness  and  mis- 
ery. Resisting  temptation  strengthens  the  mind ;  it  strengthens  the  soul. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


May  our  children  be  able  to  resist  successfully  the  numerous  and  trying 
temptations  of  today.  This  is  the  way  of  righteousness.  It  has  been  said 
that  no  man  can  be  called  strong  and  virtuous  until  he  has  come  innocent 
from  the  conquest  of  temptation.  And  in  our  teaching  let  us  remember 
that  resistance  to  temptation  must  come  from  within.  We  cannot  by 
compulsion  make  our  children  good. 

What  is  going  to  give  the  necessary  strength,  the  necessary  power 
to  resist  temptation  ?  Education  alone,  it  seems,  will  not  do  it.  A  knowl- 
edge of  science  will  not  do  it.  Many  with  scholarship  and  knowledge 
have  had  their  lives  ruined  by  drink. 

The  greatest  power  that  can  come  into  human  hearts  and  lives  is  the 
power  of  God.  This  added  to  scholarship  and  education,  will  give  the 
required  strength.  It  is  the  doctrine  and  practises  of  the  Church,  it  is 
Christian  ideals,  it  is  belief  in  a  life  beyond  the  grave,  it  is  a  testimony 
of  the  divinity  and  effectiveness  of  the  restored  Gospel  that  will  make  it 
possible  to  resist  the  temptation  of  liquor. 

MAY  WE  RESOLVE 

May  we  have  faith  in  all  of  these,  may  we  be  able,  I  humbly  pray, 
actually  to  believe  what  is  written  in  the  holy  scriptures.  May  we  feel 
in  our  souls  the  divinity  and  effectiveness  of  holy  writ.  May  there  be 
awakened  in  our  hearts  an  ambition  to  assist,  especially  by  example,  in 
preserving  from  temptation  those  who  are  young  and  inexperienced. 
May  we  be  able  to  convince  them  of  this  truth  that  touching  liquor  is 
playing  with  fire. 

And  may  we  down  in  our  hearts  resolve  and  get  our  children  and  our 
children's  children  in  their  hearts  to  resolve  also  never  to  buy  or  drink 
or  sell  or  give  any  kind  of  alcoholic  liquor.  Let  us  struggle  until  we 
have  thoroughly  conquered  this  our  present  outstanding  public  enemy 
number  one,  so  that  our  choice  young  folks,  promising  young  men  and 
promising  young  women,  may  be  protected  from  its  terrible  temptation. 

An  anthem,  "The  Pilgrim's  Chorus,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 
Elder  John  C.  Todd,  President  of  the  Gridley  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 :00  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

The  Summit  Stake  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session  and 
sang,  as  an  opening  number,  the  hymn,'  "Behold,  the  mountain  of  the 
Lord." 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


23 


Elder  Danford  M.  Bickmore,  President  of  the  Hyrum  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "An  angel  from  on  high." 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  plead  with  you  for  your  supporting  power.  I  never  needed  it 
more. 

This  is  a  beautiful  occasion,  a  wonderful  opening  to  a  great  con- 
ference. Our  souls  have  been  thrilled  by  the  sweet  melodies  of  this 
stake  choir.  God  bless  their  talents  and  give  them  a  desire  to  use  these 
talents  to  praise  the  Lord  our  God  forever.  My  soul  has  thrilled,  and 
I  have  said  out  of  the  depths  of  my  heart  when  every  one  of  the 
brethren  has  closed  his  remarks,  Amen — the  Lord  let  it  be  so. 

A  BEAUTIFUL  SETTING 

We  are  surrounded  with  beauty,  with  peace,  with  comfort  in  this, 
one  of  the  most  remarkable  spots  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  It  seems 
to  me  it  was  never  more  beautiful  than  today.  I  do  not  have  to  invite 
you  to  look  over  the  beautiful  sweep  of  green  which  extends  back  to 
the  north  wall  and  see  the  wealth  of  color  that  rises  to  the  top  of  that 
wall.  There  is  no  other  setting  like  it  in  all  the  world.  It  is  a  rare  privi- 
lege, in  the  shadow  of  the  Temple  erected  to  the  most  high  God,  to 
meet  in  this  great  assembly  room  in  conference  capacity,  after  a  lapse 
of  a  hundred  and  six  years  since  the  organization  of  the  Church. 

THE  PRESENT  LEADERSHIP  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  thought  as  I  listened  to  the  burning  testimony  of  the  President 
this  morning,  testifying  of  the  divinity  of  the  Lord  our  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  testifying  of  the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet,  and  bearing  his  testimony  as  to  the  worthiness  of  his  prede- 
cessors— I  thought,  after  having  had  a  lifetime  acquaintance  with  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church  and  now  one  year's  experience  in 
close  daily  contact  with  them,  why  could  I  not,  a  humble  man,  testify 
of  the  living,  testify  of  the  leadership  of  this  Church  as  it  is  today. 

I  have  seen  these  men  day  in  and  day  out.  I  have  witnessed  them 
in  their  wrestling  with  the  grave  problems  that  arise  to  be  solved.  I  have 
observed  the  vast  amount  of  routine  work  that  must  constantly  be 
given  careful  attention  day  by  day.  These  leaders  are  known  to  us. 
Their  lives  are  open  books.  They  have  grown  up  under  the  eyes  of 
the  people.  Their  incomings  and  their  outgoings  are  known  to  all. 
They  are  chosen  of  God  to  carry  forward  his  work  at  this  period  in  the 
history  of  the  Church. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  ask  for  your  deliberate  consideration  and  your  feeling  of  rever- 
ence for  the  authorities  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  What  a  variety  of  men  constitutes  the  General  Authorities  of 
this  Church !  When  any  problem  comes  before  them,  think  of  the 
various  viewpoints  that  are  brought  to  bear  in  its  solution,  and  think 
of  the  safety  and  security  of  each  solution  as  it  goes  out  to  the  people 
with  the  wise  recommendations  of  all. 

THE  ORACLES  OF  GOD 

I  bear  testimony  that  my  brethren  live  in  the  love  and  favor  of 
God  and  that  they  carry  their  responsibilities  with  fidelity.  I  bear 
testimony  of  the  unity  and  the  feeling  of  brotherly  love  that  exist  in 
the  presiding  councils.  I  bear  testimony  of  the  deference  and  rever- 
ence that  are  given  to  the  President  of  the  Church,  in  recognition  of  his 
long  life  of  faithful  devotion  to  the  cause  of  truth,  his  known  unswerv- 
ing integrity  under  every  condition  of  life  that  has  ever  confronted  him, 
his  generous  spirit,  his  heart  of  understanding  and  his  ear  that  is  open 
to  the  petitions  of  the  just  and  the  good. 

We  rejoice  with  him  in  the  inspiration  that  came  to  him  in  the 
happy  choice  that  he  made  of  his  counselors.  President  Clark,  a  born 
straight  thinker,  a  righteous  defender  of  the  truth,  is  a  man  of  undeviat- 
ing  and  unfaltering  devotion  to  the  Church,  who  is  never  given  to 
expediency  and  cannot  be  lured  by  position  or  place  away  trom  the 
high  standards  of  the  Church.  President  McKay,  with  his  manly 
physique,  a  perfect  physical  specimen,  it  seems  to  me,  presided  over 
by  a  trained  and  a  keen  mind,  enjoys  a  spirituality  that  has  made  him, 
not  of  his  own  volition  but  by  common  consent,  the  idol  of  youth,  the 
foremost  Sunday  School  teacher  and  officer  of  his  day.  The  sweetness 
of  his  life  flows  into  ours  in  richness  and  lifts  in  us  every  good  quality 
and  ambition. 

These  men  constitute  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  oracles  of  God  chosen  to  receive  the  mind  and 
the  will  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  to  impart  it  unto  the  people.  1 
bear  testimony  that  the  avenues  of  revelation  are  open.  The  brethren 
are  worthy.  Jesus  is  at  the  helm.  This  is  his  work  and  he  leads  his 
servants. 

WILLING  TO  GIVE  HIS  LIFE 

I  could  go  on  down  the  line,  for  one  year's  close  contact  with  these 
brethren  has  found  a  response  in  my  heart  and  brought  a  richness  into 
my  life  that  I  have  no  ability  to  express  in  words.  President  Clawson, 
who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  been  steadfast 
and  true  while  he  has  pegged  out  his  better  than  seventy-eight  years  in 
faithful  service.  He  stands  before  us  a  living  witness  that  men  walk 
the  earth  in  this  generation  of  time  who  would  give  their  lives  for  the 


ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 


25 


truth  and  for  their  friends.  I  recall,  as  many  of  you  recall,  in  history 
that  Rudger  Clawson  stood  by  the  side  of  his  companion,  Elder  Joseph 
Standing,  and  saw  him  shot  down  in  cold  blood,  and  then  heard  the 
voice  of  the  leading  mobocrat  give  the  order,  as  he  designated  Rudger 
Clawson,  "Shoot  that  man."  Brother  Clawson,  looking  down  the  barrels 
of  those  guns  that  were  leveled  at  his  head,  folded  his  arms  and  said 
with  majesty,  "Shoot."  He  made  the  sacrifice,  he  offered  his  life,  but 
the  Lord  willed  it  otherwise  and  he  walks  about  among  us  true  and 
faithful,  living  out  the  measure  of  his  creation. 

MEN  WITH  OUTSTANDING  QUALIFICATIONS 

So  I  could  go  on  down  and  name  my  brethren:  Reed  Smoot,  the 
illustrious  Senator,  now  at  this  mature  period  of  his  life  giving  out  of  his 
rich  experience  all  that  he  has  for  the  building  of  the  Church  and  King- 
dom of  God;  George  Albert  Smith,  the  apostle  of  love  and  sympathy 
and  good  will ;  George  F.  Richards,  the  patient,  the  exact,  the  true,  the 
tried;  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  an  oracle,  one  who  knows  all  that  God 
has  revealed  perhaps  as  well  as  any  other  living  man. 

And  so  I  might  go  on  down  through  the  list,  but  time  will  not 
permit,  naming  each  in  his  place,  each  with  his  outstanding  qualities,  all 
united  for  the  building  of  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  upon  the 
earth. 

LEADERS  IN   STAKES  AND  MISSIONS 

Then  as  we  reach  out  and  discover,  as  I  have  been  permitted  to 
discover  as  I  have  visited  the  stakes  and  missions  and  met  the  fine 
leaders  we  have  serving  as  presidents  of  missions,  presidents  of  stakes, 
bishops  of  wards,  as  superintendencies  and  presidencies  of  auxiliary 
organizations  and  the  good  men  and  women  that  they  have  gathered 
about  them,  all  down  the  line,  I  marvel  as  I  say :  "Oh,  Lord,  it  is  true ; 
Thou  hast  brought  forth  a  great  and  marvelous  work.  Thou  hast 
lifted  an  ensign  to  the  world."  And  I  feel  that  I  could  almost  sing 
with  Isaiah:  "How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the  feet  of  him 
that  bringeth  good  tidings,  that  publisheth  peace ;  that  bringeth  good 
tidings  of  good,  that  publisheth  salvation;  that  saith  unto  Zion,  Thy 
God  reigneth.  Rise  from  the  dust  and  shake  thyself,  and  go  forth  in 
power  and  in  dominion." 

AS  THE  VOICE  OF  GOD 

God  bless  the  leaders  of  Zion  and  bring  into  our  hearts  a  renewed 
feeling  of  reverence;  that  henceforth  their  voices,  as  they  speak  as  they 
are  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  shall  be  unto  us  as  the  voice  of  God. 
In  this  hour  when  war  drums  are  rolling,  fleets  are  massing,  soldiers  are 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


being  marshaled  and  all  the  powers  of  destruction  are  being  assembled, 
let  us  remember  the  word  of  the  Lord  who  said :  "When  that  day  shall 
come  that  peace  shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  when  the  devil  shall  have 
dominion  over  his  own,  I  the  Lord  shall  rule  in  the  hearts  of  Zion  and 
shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  the  earth." 

That  God  may  help  us  to  know  who  we  are,  be  what  we  ought  to 
be,  live  as  we  should  live  and  go  forth  with  the  irresistible  power  of 
righteousness  in  the  proclamation  and  living  of  the  truth,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  last  night  I  was  visiting  the  home  of  one 
of  my  brothers,  and  in  talking  with  him  about  the  Church  he  said :  "Not 
long  ago  the  Bishop  made  certain  proposals  of  things  that  he  wished 
to  do  in  the  ward.  I  immediately  stood  up  in  that  meeting  and  objected 
and  made  a  tirade  against  what  he  was  wanting  to  do.  Apparently  I  made 
one  convert,  for  as  I  took  my  seat  another  brother  arose  and  began  to 
berate  the  Bishop  for  his  proposals,  and  as  I  listened  to  that  brother  I 
thought :  'What  a'fool  I  have  made  of  myself.'  As  soon  as  he  had  finished 
his  talk  against  the  Bishop's  proposals  I  stood  up  again  and  said :  'Bishop, 
I  am  right  back  of  you  in  anything  you  want  to  do'." 

I  find  that  frequently  we,  as  members  of  the  Church,  are  not  as 
loyal  as  we  should  be  to  the  brethren  who  preside  over  us.  It  is  an  easy 
matter  to  criticise  and  find  fault  with  what  is  being  done,  but  I  have 
learned,  through  my  association  with  the  brethren  that  they  don't  do 
things  without  considerable  prayer  and  thought ;  and  that  when  they  are 
united,  we  can  well  afford  to  stand  directly  behind  them  and  support  them 
in  every  move  they  make. 

Not  so  very  long  ago,  in  California,  a  member  of  the  high  council 
came  to  me  and  began  to  complain  and  criticise  because  at  the  Exposition 
in  San  Diego  we  had  placed  young  men  and  women,  our  missionaries, 
to  meet  the  public  who  came  from  all  parts  of  the  world  to  visit  that 
great  Exposition.  He  said:  "We  should  have  more  mature  men  to 
handle  the  crowds  that  gather  there."  For  be  it  known  that  some  fifteen 
hundred  people  a  day  have  come  to  our  little  bureau  at  the  San  Diego 
Exposition,  to  hear  the  story  that  these  young  men  and  young  ladies  have 
to  tell.  I  said  to  him,  "I  have  every  faith  in  our  missionaries,  young 
though  they  be,  and  I  am  sure  that  with  our  faith  and  prayers  they 
will  be  able  to  do  their  job  successfully." 

Just  recently  I  visited  the  Fair,  and  in  reading  the  diary  of  one  of 
the  missionaries  I  came  to  an  entry  that  he  had  made  which  interested 
me  and  I  asked  permission  to  copy  it  because  I  thought  it  was  really 
rich.   This  happened  on  September  7th.   The  diary  was  that  of  Elder 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


27 


James  Shelby  of  Arizona,  perhaps  the  youngest  missionary  we  have  in 
the  California  Mission.    He  said: 

September  7th.  I  entertained  the  Archbishop,  W.  H.  Francis,  and 
Victor  James  Hartman,  of  Bedford  Village,  New  York,  at  the  booth  today. 
They  came  in  to  see  the  exhibit  and  said :  "We  visited  your  exhibit  twice 
when  in  Chicago  at  the  great  Fair.  It  was  the  best  exhibit  there,  and  seeing 
it  here  on  the  grounds  we  just  couldn't  help  coming  and  seeing  it  again. 
It  is  the  best  exhibit  here,  too.  We  are  impressed  by  the  zeal  and  en- 
thusiasm of  you  young  people  who  explain  the  exhibit  to  us.  I  certainly 
envy  the  wonderful  program  that  the  Mormon  leaders  have  that  holds 
young  people  so  firmly  rooted  in  the  spiritual  lines."  I  explained  the  model 
of  the  Tabernacle  to  him,  and  told  him  that  we  regarded  it  as  quite  an 
edifice,  to  be  carved  out  of  nothing  but  wood.  To  this  the  Archbishop 
remarked :  "My  boy,  you  carved  that  building  out  of  wood,  but  you  have 
carved  an  empire  out  of  nothing  but  a  wilderness."  He  also  told  me  of  a 
time  when  he  was  receiving  applications  for  a  position.  One  boy  in  par- 
ticular, he  said,  interested  him.  He  asked  the  boy  if  he  smoked,  drank 
liquor,  cr  drank  tea,  coffee,  or  any  other  stimulant.  The  boy  answered 
in  the  negative.  He  asked  the  boy  if  he  went  to  church,  and  he  told  him 
yes.  He  then  told  him  that  he  was  a  Latter-day  Saint.  The  Archbishop 
said  he  hired  that  boy  out  of  a  hundred  and  twenty-five  applicants,  because 
he  stood  up  for  his  convictions  and  was  not  ashamed  to  stand  by  them. 
All  in  all  he  was  one  of  the  most  remarkable  and  interesting  men  I  have 
ever,  had  the  privilege  of  talking  with. 

The  manager  of  the  Standard  Oil  Company  exhibit,  just  across  the 
way  from  us,  came  over  and  remarked  that  he  was  surprised  that  such 
young  people  should  be  given  the  responsibility  of  putting  over  such  an 
important  message,  and  he  was  amazed  to  see  how  these  boys  and  girls 
were  standing  up  under  such  a  strain,  and  convincing  the  outside  people 
of  the  value  of  Mormonism  and  the  teachings  of  the  Mormon  Church. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  if  we  could  have  a  little 
more  sympathy  from  within  perhaps  we  could  do  much  more  good. 
A  lawyer  came  to  my  office  not  long  ago.  He  said:  "I  had  the 
grandest  time  of  my  life  in  Utah.  I  spent  two  hours  yesterday  on  the 
Temple  Block,  a  thrilling  experience,  listening  to  the  guide  as  he  told 
me  of  what  had  been  accomplished.  I  came  down  to  Los  Angeles  yester- 
day. As  soon  as  I  got  here  I  remembered  that  in  a  warehouse  I  had  a 
Book  of  Mormon  that  I  had  never  looked  at.  I  hunted  it  up  and 
I  was  reading  that  book  till  2 :30  this  morning."  At  9:00  o'clock  he  was 
in  my  office  telling  me  this.  "What  a  marvelous  church  you  have !  Why, 
no  one  can  tell  me  that  a  man  wrote  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  have  a  great 
deal  to  do  with  detail,  and  there  is  too  much  detail  in  that  book  for  any 
man  to  think  of  and  write  out  and  make  it  fit  in  so  well.  I  want  more 
literature."    So  we  sold  him  more  literature. 

Yet  I  have  heard  people  complain  about  the  Temple  Block,  that 
forsooth  we  were  giving  them  too  much  religion  here,  just  overdoing  it  a 
little  bit.  The  people  who  come  from  the  world  are  hungry.  Thousands 
of  them  come  here,  and  as  they  pass  on,  back  into  their  homes,  they 
are  thrilled  when  these  Mormon  missionaries  come  to  their  doors, 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thrilled  to  hear  their  testimony,  glad  to  take  them  in  and  feed  them  and 
help  them. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  be  loyal  to  our  Church,  and  to  the  men 
who  lead  us.  Let  us  remember  that  our  Heavenly  Father  is  not  very  far 
from  us,  and  his  promise  is  very  definite,  for  he  tells  us  that  "the 
obedient  shall  eat  the  good  of  the  land."  Let  us  therefore  not  feel  to 
criticise,  but  feel  to  be  obedient,  that  the  blessings  may  come  to  our 
families,  to  our  homes.    That  will  come  through  obedience. 

God  bless  and  keep  us  all  in  the  line  of  our  duty,  loyal,  constant 
and  true  to  those  who  preside  over  us,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  source  of  great  satisfaction  to  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  who 
have  at  heart  the  welfare  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  see  the  many  evi- 
dences of  faithfulness  on  their  part.  I  thought  this  when  I  saw  men  and 
women  rushing  toward  this  building  this  morning,  anxious  to  attend  the 
opening  session  of  this  wonderful  conference,  and  I  have  thought  since 
that  there  are  many  other  ways  in  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  evi- 
dencing their  love  of  the  truth  and  their  support  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church.  The  generous  response  that  is  made  by  our  young  men  and 
women  who  leave  their  homes  and  loved  ones  and  go  out  into  the  world, 
representing  the  Church  and  the  Lord  in  the  preaching  of  the  everlasting 
Gospel,  is  an  evidence  of  faith  on  their  part  and  also  on  the  part  of  their 
parents. 

EVIDENCES  OF  FAITHFULNESS  AND  DEVOTION 

The  response  made  to  calls  to  various  positions  of  trust  and  respon- 
sibility in  the  ministry  of  the  Lord  at  home,  in  the  various  organizations 
of  the  Church;  the  faithfulness  and  devotion  manifested  by  men  and 
women  in  the  various  positions  which  they  occupy  in  the  Church;  the 
reports  from  wards  and  stakes  and  missions  of  accomplishments  there 
and  of  the  faithfulness  of  the  members  of  the  Church — all  these  are  very 
gratifying. 

We  cannot  help  but  realize  however  that  these  evidences  of  faith- 
fulness are  confined  to  but  a  portion  of  our  people ;  that  there  are  others 
in  the  Church  who  are  very  indifferent  to  the  faith  of  their  parents  and 
the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  them  as  members.  This  is  a  source  of 
much  regret. 

THE  LORD'S  PURPOSE 

The  Lord  made  known  to  his  servant  Abraham  the  purpose  he  had 
in  the  organizing  of  this  earth  and  his  purpose  in  placing  men  here  : 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


29 


And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space 
there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth 
whereon  these  may  dwell. 

We  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  God  shall  command  them. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  is  the  end  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
and  those  associated  with  him  had  in  view  in  the  creating  of  this  earth- — 
placing  us  here  to  see  if  we  would  keep  all  of  his  commandments.  I 
wonder  how  well  we  are  meeting  that  obligation. 

our  captain's  platform  of  principles 

Aside  from  the  commandments,  we  read  also  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price — in  the  Book  of  Moses — about  a  great  controversy  that  took  place 
in  the  world  of  spirits,  and  that  one  noble  spirit  came  forth  who  was  the 
first-born  in  the  spirit — afterwards  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in 
the  flesh — and  presented  a  platform  of  principles  which  was  accepted, 
couched  in  simple  terms :  "Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine 
forever."  There  was  a  sufficient  number  of  those  spirits  of  men  that 
stood  with  him,  our  Captain,  upon  that  platform  of  principles,  to  prevail. 
We  were  among  them,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  we  upheld  the  standard 
of  principles :  "Thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  That 
principle  had  reference  to  this  life  as  well  as  to  the  spirit  life. 

When  the  Savior  came  to  earth  he  renewed  his  declaration  and 
repeatedly  stated  that  he  came  because  his  Father  had  sent  him,  that  he 
came  to  do  the  will  of  his  Father.  On  one  occasion,  when  he  was  ad- 
dressing the  Nephites  when  he  visited  them  on  this  American  continent 
and  preached  the  Gospel  to  them,  after  his  crucifixion  and  ascension  into 
heaven,  he  stated  that  he  had  come  because  he  was  sent  of  the  Father, 
and  that  he  came  to  do  the  will  of  his  Father.  Then  he  asked  them : 
"Now,  what  manner  of  men  ought  ye  to  be?"  And  he  answered  the 
question  for  them :  "Verily  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  I  am." 

THE  .WILL  OF  THE  LORD 

I  do  not  know  how  we  could  read  any  other  meaning  into  it  than 
that  the  Father  sent  Jesus  our  Lord  and  Savior  here  to  do  his  will,  and 
that  we  were  all  sent  here  for  the  same  purpose.  So  to  me — and  I  think 
it  should  be  to  all  Latter-day  Saints — the  expressed  will  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  is  as  forceful  as  a  direct  command,  and  when  he  says  in  the 
revelation  known  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom  it  is  his  will  that  we  observe 
and  keep  that  word,  refraining  from  the  use  of  intoxicating  drinks  and 
hot  drinks,  and  the  use  of  tobacco,  we  should  be  obedient  thereto.  Not- 
withstanding there  is  no  mention  of  tea  and  coffee  in  that  revelation  we 
have  known  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  the  present 
time  that  every  leader  of  this  Church  who  has  been  the  mouthpiece  of 
God  has  interpreted  the  revelation  to  mean  that  tea  and  coffee  are  in- 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


eluded  among  those  things  which  are  forbidden.  In  other  words,  it  is  the 
will  of  the  Father  that  we  should  not  use  tea  and  coffee. 

god's  mouthpiece  unto  us 

And  recently,  because  of  the  prevalence  of  the  sale  and  use  of 
legalized  beer,  the  President  of  this  Church  and  his  associates  have  con- 
sidered seriously  that  problem,  and  have  declared  that  the  use  of  beer 
is  a  violation  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  hence  a  violation  of  the  expressed 
will  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

Are  we  willing,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  to  sustain  and  to  support  the 
President  of  this  Church  as  God's  mouthpiece  unto  us — a  prophet,  seer 
and  revelator — and  sing  with  sincere  heart  and  purpose : 

We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days ; 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

When  the  President  of  the  Church  stands  up  in  general  conference 
and  declares  in  favor  of  prohibition,  it  has  been  a  source  of  great  regret 
to  me  that  prominent,  leading,  faithful  men  in  this  Church  have  felt 
justified  in  voting  in  favor  of  the  return  of  liquor  as  against  the  expressed 
will  of  the  President  of  the  Church,  who  I  believe  expressed  the  mind  and 
will  of  God  unto  this  people. 

CONSISTENT  AND  CONSCIENTIOUS  ACTION 

We  are  here,  brethren  and  sisters,  not  only  to  be  proven  to  see 
whether  we  will  keep  all  of  God's  commandments,  but  to  see  whether 
we  will  do  his  will  and  permit  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to  interpret 
his  mind  and  will  to  us.   Is  not  that  consistent  ? 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  consistent,  to  act 
conscientiously. 

I  have  thought  that  there  are  some  doctrines  taught  by  some  of  the 
religious  creeds  of  the  world  which  many  men  and  women  of  intelligence 
cannot  subscribe  to,  when  they  answer  according  to  their  own  conscience, 
but  do  so  because  they  are  the  creeds  of  the  church  to  which  they  belong, 
and  I  place  these  religious  organizations  and  political  parties  in  the  same 
class. 

God  help  us  to  live  according  to  the  light  which  has  come  to  us, 
to  support  and  sustain  those  whom  the  Lord  has  given  unto  us,  for  they 
are  prophets  in  very  deed,  and  they  will  be  so  to  this  people  if  we  will 
follow  their  lead.  No  man  or  woman  has  ever  gone  astray,  or  ever  will 
do  so,  when  in  full  accord  with  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  and  the 
Twelve  Apostles. 

My  admonition  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  that  we  heed  the  advice 
and  counsel  given  us  in  this  general  conference,  that  we  take  the  same 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


31 


home  to  ourselves,  and  that  we  be  resolved  that  we  will  be  doers  of  the 
word  of  God,  and  not  hearers  only,  deceiving  ourselves. 

May  the  Lord  help  and  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  .pray  earnestly,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

Sister  Judith  Anderson  Beard  sang  a  solo,  "How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains,"  after  which,  at  the  suggestion  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
the  congregation  arose  and  sang  two  verses  of  the  hymn,  "O  say  what 
is  truth?" 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

These  words  from  the  128th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants come  to  me  as  I  rise  before  you  this  afternoon: 

Now,  what  do  we  hear  in  the  gospel  which  we  have  received?  A 
voice  of  gladness !  A  voice  of  mercy  from  heaven ;  and  a  voice  of  truth 
out  of  the  earth ;  glad  tidings  for  the  dead ;  a  voice  of  gladness  for  the 
living  and  the  dead;  glad  tidings  of  great  joy.  How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains  are  the  feet  of  those  that  bring  glad  tidings  of  good  things, 
and  that  say  unto  Zion :  Behold,  thy  God  reigneth !  As  the  dews  of 
Carmel,  so  shall  the  knowledge  of  God  descend  upon  them ! 

And  again,  what  do  we  hear?  Glad  tidings  from  Cumorah !  lyioroni, 
an  angel  from  heaven,  declaring  the  fulfilment  of  the  prophets — the  book 
to  be  revealed.  A  voice  of  the  Lord  in  the  wilderness  of  Fayette,  Seneca 
County,  declaring  the  three  witnesses  to  bear  record  of  the  book! 

The  outstanding  event  during  the  last  six  months  in  the  Eastern 
States  Mission  was  the  dedication  of  the  monument  on  the  Hill  Cumorah, 
near  Palmyra,  New  York.  Reference  was  made  this  morning  to  this 
event.  The  work  of  the  mission  has  centered,  during  the  summer, 
largely  around  that  place.  Our  missionaries  visited  every  home  within 
a  radius  of  twenty  miles  of  the  Hill  Cumorah.  More  than  seventy 
thousand  people  live  within  that  area. 

We  are  deeply  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  blessings  that  have 
been  given  to  us  in  our  mission.  We  are  especially  grateful  for  the 
fine  publicity  that  was  given  through  the  newspapers,  magazines,  and 
over  the  radios  concerning  the  dedication  of  the  monument.  Thousands 
of  articles  were  published.  The  Hill  Cumorah  has  continued  to  be  a 
place  of  interest  for  many  people  since  the  dedication  services  were 
held.  No  day  has  passed,  since  the  dedication  of  the  monument,  that 
has  not  seen  many  people  come  to  that  hill.  Forty,  I  think,  is  the 
smallest  number,  and  we  have  had  as  high  as  seven  hundred  and  seventy 
in  a  day  visit  the  monument  and  listen  to  the  message  of  the  missionaries 
who  have  been  stationed  in  that  locality. 

I  do  not  know  whether  you  fully  appreciate,  as  we  do,  the  blessings 
of  publicity.  The  messages  of  our  brethren  who  visited  us  were  written 
in  detail  and  printed  in  literally  hundreds  of  the  papers  in  that  mission. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Reference  was  made  to  individuals,  to  the  President  of  the  Church,  and 
to  many  others  in  the  kindliest  manner. 

I  recall  at  this  time  some  of  the  quotations  that  were  made  regarding 
our  exercises,  and  with  the  consent  of  the  brethren  I  would  like  to  insert 
in  my  remarks  in  the  permanent  record  a  few  of  these  brief  quotations. 

The  Evening  Journal  of  Rochester,  New  York,  made  this  forecast 
on  June  IS,  1935  : 

When  Joseph  Smith,  founder  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  led  his  little  band  of  faithful  followers  westward  from  Pal- 
myra 100  years  ago,  it  was  because  they  were  driven  out  by  the  persecution 
of  other  sects  in  this,  vicinity. 

But  when  their  descendants,  many  of  them  among  the  nation's  wealthi- 
est and  most  prominent  figures,  return  here  next  month,  they  will  be 
received  with'  open  arms.  A  holiday  will  be  declared  in  their  honor — 
the  key  to  the  city  will  be  theirs. 

On  July  14  the  Rochester  Democrat  and  Chronicle  printed  a  full- 
page  story  which  was  concluded  with  these  words : 

History  repeated  itself  in  western  New  York  when  this  year  the  story 
of  Mormonism  was  taken  to  the  people  of  the  section  through  a  projected 
missionary  campaign  participated  in  by  50  young  men  and  women  from 
the  church  in  the  West,  many  of  whom  were  third  and  fourth  generation 
descendants  of  the  early  converts  in  this  state.  *  *  * 

At  the  coming  celebration  at  the  site  of  the  monument  itself,  a 
homecoming  of  unique  proportions  will  be  enacted.  Thousands  of  ad- 
herents to  the  faith  that  was  cradled  in  Palmyra  a  century  ago  will  return 
to  see  the  marking  of  one  of  its  prominent  places  and  the  memorializing 
of  one  of  its  salient  events. 

While  the  early  Mormons  were  driven  from  New  York  by  misunder- 
standing neighbors  in  1831,  their  returning  descendants  are  welcomed  by 
friends  in  the  same  places.  Where  the  faith  was  once  despised,  mission- 
aries find  people  who  want  to  know  of  it. 

Building  a  stately  memorial  in  their  church's  birthplace,  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  take  up  again  the  threads  of  a  religion  which  were  dropped 
one  hundred  years  ago. 

The  monument's  dedication  was  reported  in  this  way  by  the 
Courier-Express  of  Buffalo  on  July  22: 

About  105  years  ago  Joseph  Smith  and  his  little  band  of  followers 
'  were  driven  out  of  their  homes  in  Palmyra  and  Manchester  to  wander 
across  the  continent  before  they  found  peace. 

Yesterday  approximately  3,000  persons  from  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  Canada,  as  staunch  in  their  Mormon  faith  as  the  battered  band 
of  1830,  returned  to  Palmyra  and  Manchester.  Prosperous,  and  zealous 
for  their  religion,  they  came  as  honored  guests  of  the  same  communities 
where  founders  of  their  faith  were  stoned  and  killed. 

The  New  York  Times,  on  the  same  date,  quoted  one  of  the  dedica- 
tion day  speakers  thus : 

We  do  not  erect  this  monument  to  express  the  wealth  of  the  Church, 
or  the  deeds — mighty  as  they  were — that  took  place  from  1820  to  1830 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


33 


on  this  hallowed  ground,  but  to  express  gratitude  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus,  said  Mr.  McKay. 

It  is  a  monument  to  the  question  and  the  answer  of  ages;  if  a  man 
die,  shall  he  live  again?  We  must  in  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith  say 
that  if  a  man  die,  he  shall  live  again. 

A  report  written  with  remarkable  sympathy  and  understanding  by 
Mrs.  Thelma  G.  Bryant  of  Monroe,  Michigan,  was  carried  by  the 
Evening  News  of  that  town  on  July  27 : 

If  the  dead  can  see  and  know  of  earthly  events,  as  some  people  believe 
they  do,  then  the  heart  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Mormon  prophet,  must  have 
been  filled  with  joy  because  of  the  recent  events  around  his  boyhood  home. 
Over  5,000  of  his  followers,  and  others,  gathered  at  "Cumorah  Land"  as 
it  is  called  by  the  Mormons,  for  a  four  day  celebration  commemorating 
the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  Sunday,  July  21,  on  top  of  Mormon  Hill, 
as  the  natives  there  have  long  called  it,  or  the  Hill  Cumorah,  as  the  Mor- 
mons say,  was  unveiled  and  dedicated  a  beautiful  monument,  which  was 
set  to  mark  the  place  where  it  is  claimed  the  young  Prophet  Joseph 
found  the  golden  tablets  from  which  he  translated  the  record  known  as 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  *  *  * 

Members  came  from  long  distances,  some  from  California,  Idaho, 
Maryland,  Virginia,  Massachusetts,  and  Michigan.  A  large  delegation  came 
from  Utah,  among  them  being  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  is  the  head  of  the 
church  over  all  the  world.  There  were  also  several  apostles  and  other 
important  leaders  of  the  church.  In  simple  unassuming  fashion  these 
men  spoke,  paying  tribute  to  the  man  Joseph,  the  first  latter-day  prophet. 
Mr.  Grant  holds  the  same  place  in  the  church  today  as  Joseph  did,  and 
is  honored  by  his  people  as  a  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  unto  the  church. 
Despite  his  high  place,  Mr.  Grant  as  also  the  other  leaders  of  the  church, 
mingled  freely  among  the  people. 

The  papers  quoted  much  of  the  wonderful  speeches  made  by  Presi- 
dent Grant  and  President  McKay  at  the  last  session  of  the  conference. 
President  McKay  said,  as  I  recall,  that  the  monument  connoted  at  least 
four  things ;  first,  the  personality  and  the  reality  of  our  Father  in  heaven ; 
second,  that  he  has  communicated  his  mind  and  his  will  to  men  in  this 
day ;  third,  that  he  had  given  authority  to  establish  his  church  upon 
earth ;  and  fourth,  that  there  is  no  death.  President  Grant  bore  a  most 
powerful  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  Gospel. 

A  short  time  ago  a  man  visited  the  Hill  Cumorah,  and  after  listen- 
ing to  the.  story  of  the  elders  he  said :  "The  test  of  a  man's  greatness  is 
measured  by  ideas  original  with  him.  What  did  Joseph  Smith  give  to 
the  world  new  in  the  way  of  ideas?" 

Our  elder  replied :  "At  least  four  come  to  me  now :  First,  in  the 
face  of  a  doctrine  that  man  is  a  worm  of  the  dust" — which,  by  the  way, 
has  no  place  in  Mormon  philosophy — "he  gave  to  the  world  the  idea  of 
the  relationship  of  man  to  God.  He  restated  what  the  Psalmist  had 
said,  that  the  Lord  had  created  man  a  little  lower  than  the  angels.  He 
gave  to  the  world  the  idea  of  man's  greatness,  and  not  of  his  littleness, 
providing  he  seeks  to  make  himself  great.  Second,  he  gave  also  to  the 
world  the  idea  of  man's  origin.    True,  it  had  been  taught  before,  but  it 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  new  religiously."  Preexistence  of  man,  so  far  as  I  know,  is  a 
doctrine,  even  to  this  day,  peculiar  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  "Third," 
said  our  missionary,  "he  gave  to  the  world  the  thought  that  all  true 
religion  is  based  upon  the  doctrine  of  free  agency;  that  it  is  freedom 
and  reason  that  make  us  men,  in  the  face  of  an  accepted  doctrine  of 
predestination.  And  fourth,  he  gave  to  the  world  a  beautiful  and  wonder- 
fully new  doctrine  of  the  onwardness  or  eternal  progress  and  growth  and 
development  in  the  life  hereafter ;  that  there  is  no  such  thing  as  static,  in 
Mormon  theology ;  that  in  yonder  world  we  take  up  the  threads  of  life 
largely  where  we  leave  them  off  here,  and  go  on  to  endless  growth  and 
development  through  the  countless  ages  of  eternity." 

When  our  missionary  had  spoken — I  have  not,  of  course,  used  his 
exact  words — when  he  had  finished  speaking  this  man  said:  "I  have 
been  listening  and  looking  for  ideas  such  as  you  have  spoken  here  today. 
I  want  a  religion  that  gives  me  a  revelation  concerning  the  kinship  of 
man  to  God.  I  want  to  believe  that  I  am  great  if  I  make  myself  great. 
I  want  to  worship  a  God  who  deigns  to  call  me  his  son,  and  reveals 
that  I  am  his  literal  child.  But  I  want  that  religion  to  be  based  upon 
free  agency,  with  the  glorious  thought  that  for  every  personal  act  I, 
myself,  am  held  responsible,  when  I  arrive  at  the  age  of  accountability." 

That  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  the  glorious  message. 
It  is  founded  upon  the  doctrine  of  free  agency,  but  always  with  the 
thought  that  we  are  rewarded  and  we  are  advanced  as  we  seek  knowl- 
edge and  gain  power  and  grow  toward  the  good,  the  infinite  and  the 
righteous.  This  is  a  glorious  message,  and  how  beautiful,  how  wonderful 
this  glad  tiding  of  great  joy ! 

The  Eastern  States  missionaries  have  been  happy  this  summer. 
They  have  been  thrilled.  I  wish  I  could  tell  you,  you  parents  particularly, 
of  some  of  the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne  in  my  hearing  by  your 
sons  and  daughters  out  there  proclaiming  the  word  of  God.  They 
rejoiced  and  were  thrilled  at  the  dedication,  when  we  had  with  us  two 
of  the  First  Presidency,  four  or  five  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  one 
member  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presiding  Bishop,  and 
others  of  the  general  boards  and  representatives  of  the  various  organi- 
zations of  the  Church. 

We  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  is  ours  of  laboring  in  the  land 
where  Mormonism  had  its  birth.  With  new  pride,  with  new  hope,  with 
new  thrills  we  are  performing  our  labors,  as  best  we  can.  In  humility, 
but  with  the  strength  that  is  born  of  conviction,  we  are  bearing  our 
testimony  that  we  do  know  that  God  lives ;  that  he  is  a  personality  and 
a  reality;  that  he  has  revealed  himself  in  this  day;  that  he  has  given 
authority  to  organize  and  build  up  his  Church ;  that  we  know  that  life 
is  real,  and  that  there  is  no  death — life,  life  eternal,  glorious,  splendid 
and  wonderful  life. 

God  help  us  to  live  it  well,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  BURBIDGE 


35 


ELDER  GEORGE  W.  BURBIDGE 

Former  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission 

It  has  been  almost  two  years  and  a  half,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
since  we  left  the  Tahitian  Mission,  but  I  think  I  can  say  that  the  condi- 
tions are  about  the  same  there  now  as  they  were  in  1919.  I  left  there  in 
1919,  after  finishing  my  first  mission,  and  was  home  ten  years  before 
returning.  I  found  the  conditions  almost  the  same  at  that  time  as  they 
were  ten  years  prior. 

My  heart  thrilled  this  morning  on  hearing  President  Grant  speak 
of  his  experience  with  the  Hawaiian  people.  I  can  appreciate  the  feel- 
ing that  he  had  when  he  expressed  what  he  did  about  them.  Tahiti  is 
just  twenty-eight  hundred  miles  west  of  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  The 
native  people  in  that  mission  are  of  the  same  type,  the  same  lovable, 
wonderful,  sincere  people.  I  have  never  labored  among  a  people  to 
whom  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  means  so  much  as  it  does  to  the 
Tahitian  people.  They  are  handicapped,  of  course,  but  with  the  means 
at  their  disposal  they  do  live  their  religion,  and  are  faithful  and  true  to 
the  Covenants  which  they  have-  been  permitted  to  make.  They  enjoy 
the  priesthood  up  to  the  office  of  elder,  and  they  magnify  their  callings 
and  obey  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  to  a  very  remarkable  degree. 
To  know  those  people  is  to  love  them,  and  to  understand  them  is  to 
love  them  more. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  spending  almost  nine  years  of  my  life  among  those  people.  They 
have  taught  me  many  things.  They  have  taught  me  humility.  They 
have  taught  me  what  it  means  to  fear  the  Lord.  The  Lord  does  hear 
and  answer  their  prayers. 

There  is  just  one  thing  that  happened  on  my  mission  that  really 
cut  deep  into  my  heart,  as  well  as  the  hearts  of  all  the  missionaries  and 
friends  in  that  mission,  and  that  was  when  the  members  of  this  Church 
refused  to  obey  the  counsel  of  President  Grant.  When  I  tell  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  had  friends  in  the  Tahitian  Mission  who 
would  have  wagered  large  sums  of  money  that  Utah  and  the  Mormons 
would  have  stayed  with  prohibition,  I  am  just  expressing  it  mildly.  I 
was  acquainted  with  a  banker  in  that  town  who  was  the  most  influential 
man  there,  and  he  told  me  and  told  others  that  there  was  no  question, 
although  the  other  forty-seven  states  might  go  wet,  but  that  Utah  would 
still  maintain  the  principles  which  this  Church  teaches.  It  was  a  very 
discouraging,  heart-breaking  time  when  the  news  came  to  us  that  Utah 
had  fallen  in  line  with  the  rest  of  them,  and  disobeyed  the  admonition 
of  the  President  of  this  Church. 

It  happened  that  one  of  the  missionaries  of  the  Reorganized  Church 
was  at  the  mission  home  at  that  time,  listening  to  the  broadcast  over  K.  S. 
L.  When  the  returns  came  in  that  man  almost  wept.  Although  he  had  no 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


love  for  the  authorities  of  our  Church,  still  he  felt  that  something  was 
giving  way.  We  all  felt  that  way. 

I  want  to  say,  in  conclusion,  that  I  know  this  Gospel  is  the  truth, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  of  the  Lord,  and  that  Brigham 
Young  was  indeed  an  inspired  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  to 
lead  his  people  after  the  death  of  the  Prophet,  and  so  on  down  to  our 
present  prophet  and  seer,  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  know  that  he  is 
the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord  in  this  dispensation.  That  has  been  made 
known  to  me,  and  I  know  for  a  fact  that  he  is  the  Lord's  anointed  in 
this  dispensation. 

Shortly  after  I  returned  from  my  first  mission — I  have  never  said 
this  before  in  public,  but  I  feel  to  say  it  now;  it  will  take  just  a  few 
moments — it  was  shortly  after  I  returned  from  my  first  mission,  in 
1919,  that  the  general  authorities  gave  out  instructions  concerning  a 
temple  ordinance.  The  recommendations  caused  quite  a  bit  of  con- 
troversy, and  several  of  my  friends  at  first  could  hardly  see  the  wisdom 
of  it.  I  too  worried  about  it  considerably,  though  I  did  not  say  much. 
I  remember  one  night,  around  two  o'clock  in  the  morning,  I  found 
myself  sitting  up  in  bed.  I  had  been  weeping,  and  my  wife  asked  me 
what  was  the  matter.  This  is  the  thing  that  I  experienced.  I  don't 
know  whether  I  was  asleep  or  not,  but  a  voice  came  to  me  as  clear  as 
any  voice  I  have  ever  heard  in  my  life.  It  said :  "Thou  shalt  not  speak 
evil  of  the  Lord's  anointed."  That  was  the  thing  that  comforted  me. 
I  have  a  testimony  and  I  know  that  as  long  as  we  adhere  to  the 
admonition  given  us  by  President  Grant  and  those  associated  with  him, 
we  shall  not  go  astray. 

My  prayer  to  our  Heavenly  Father  is  that  he  may  bless  us  all, 
that  we  may  support  those  who  are  in  high  positions,  those  who  have 
jurisdiction  over  this  church,  that  we  may  give  them  our  support  and 
be  loyal  to  them.  I  humbly  ask  these  blessings,  with  all  others  that  we 
stand  in  need  of,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  Jr. 

Former  President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  delighted  to  have  this  opportunity.  I 
was  released  from  presiding  over  the  Texas  Mission  some  six  months 
ago,  but  I  feel  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  privilege  I  had  of  laboring  as 
a  missionary  there. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  knowledge  I  have  that  this  is  the  work  of  the 
Lord.  During  the  past  six  months  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  visit- 
ing among  the  people  and  of  speaking  virtually  every  Sunday.  I  have 
been  invited  to  speak  at  five  different  funerals.  I  have  enjoyed  very 
much  being  home  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  grateful,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  testimony  I  have,  and  for  the  knowledge 
that  has  come  to  me  that  this  is  indeed  the  work  of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 


37 


"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing  but  he  revealeth  his  secret 
unto  his  servants,  the  prophets."  Oh,  how  I  rejoice  in  the  testimony 
that  has  come  to  me  that  these  men  whom  we  sustain  as  our  general 
authorities  are  indeed  prophets,  seers  and  revelators  to  this  Church  and 
people — a  marvelous  thing,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

The  other  day,  when  I  was  going  out  on  the  mountain,  I  heard  a 
noise.  I  looked,  and  a  large  deer  jumped  and  gave  a  little  snort.  I 
looked  a  little  farther  along  the  ridge  and  I  could  see  eight  more  deer 
bounding  off  into  the  quaking  asp,  and  I  thought  that  the  Lord  in  his 
kindness  had  placed  sentinels  even  among  the  animals  and  those  of  his 
lesser  creations. 

How  important  it  is  and  how  grateful  we  should  be  as  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  that  the  Lord  has 
placed  sentinels,  has  given  us  authorities  in  the  wards  and  stakes  who 
represent  the  Master,  and  above  all,  that  we  have  a  prophet,  seer  and 
revelator  who  stands  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  I  am  just  as  confident 
as  that  I  live,  that  the  Lord  our  God  will  reveal  unto  him  his  mind  and 
will  pertaining  to  this  great  and  important  work. 

I  have  been  impressed  with  this  conference.  I  have  enjoyed  very 
much  each  and  every  one  of  the  testimonies.  I  was  thrilled  this  morning 
with  the  message  of  President  Grant — as  I  always  am — when  I  heard 
him  bear  his  fervent  testimony  as  to  how  the  Lord  had  blessed  him  in 
body  and  in  mind  all  these  fifty-three  years  that  he  has  been  serving 
this  people. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  we  live  our  religion.  May  we  prove 
to  the  world  that  we  are  indeed  God's  chosen  people,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DON  MACK  DALTON 

Former  President  of  the  South  African  Mission 

I  anticipated,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  might  be  called  upon, 
timid  though  I  feel  in  this  position.  I  hope  I  may  be  able  to  say  something 
relative  to  the  Lord's  work  in  South  Africa  that  may  be  edifying  to  the 
people  who  are  gathered  close  to  the  authorities  of  the  Church  here  in 
Zion. 

The  South  African  Mission,  as  you  might  understand,  is  the  most 
distant  mission  in  the  world  from  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  It  takes 
thirty  days  to  get  a  letter  to  an  elder  down  there,  and  it  takes  even  longer 
for  an  elder  to  travel  that  distance.  We  have  not  very  many  elders  in 
that  land,  but  I  am  sure  that  the  ones  who  are  there  do  about  as  much 
missionary  work  as  any  missionaries  in  the  world. 

I  am  very  proud  of  the  young  men  who  have  been  sent  to  that  far-off 
land  to  teach  the  people  the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  With  them,  my 
wife  and  I  have  been  grateful  for  the  splendid  labors  of  our  predecessors ; 
and  to  my  immediate  predecessor,  President  Samuel  Martin,  I  desire  to 
pay  a  tribute  of  honor,  because  that  man  lost  everything  he  had  and 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  health  and  strength,  after  he  returned  home.  I  have  not  seen  him 
since,  but  he  did  a  marvelous  and  great  labor.  When  I  received  word 
that  I  would  be  released  and  that  President  LeGrande  Backman  would 
succeed  me,  I  felt  greatly  comforted,  because  he  is  a  noble  and  good  man. 
I  am  sure  President  Grant  acted  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  when 
he  sent  him  there. 

The  people  of  that  mission  are  wonderful  and  our  members  are 
loyal  and  faithful.  About  forty  per  cent  of  them  pay  tithing.  During 
the  six  years  I  had  the  honor  to  preside  there,  there  was  129  per  cent 
increase  in  the  mission  membership.  Upon  my  arrival  there  were  596 
members  on  the  records.  This  included  children  blessed.  We  rejoiced 
greatly  because  we  felt  that  the  people  accepted  our  message. 

We  had  various  methods  of  doing  missionary  work.  We  used 
motorcycles  to  some  extent.  We  realized  that  we  had  to  get  to  the 
people  in  order  to  teach  them  the  Gospel,  and  the  quickest  way  was 
none  too  quick.  We  stressed  Book  of  Mormon  contests  in  various  forms, 
such  as  reading  contests.  Many  people  there,  like  the  people  here,  had 
never  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  through.  We  stressed  Book  of  Mor- 
mon selling  contests,  and  in  this  way  we  got  the  people  to  cooperate 
with  us  in  spreading  the  Gospel.  We  also  held  a  meeting  contest  be- 
tween the  Districts  and  likewise  a  membership  contest.  We  formed 
small  organizations  in  remote  places,  in  order  to  give  to  all  the  privileges 
in  the  Church  that  they  deserve. 

We  had  conventions  of  the  elders  every  year,  so  that  we  would 
know  exactly  what  we  were  counting  as  tracting,  counting  as  visiting 
saints,  and  so  forth.  We  tried  to  labor  as  one  unit. 

We  found  that  in  order  to  gain  publicity  we  had  to  do  something  that 
was  a  bit  different.  On  one  occasion  my  wife  and  I  were  attending  a 
foot-ball  game.  Two  universities  of  that  great  nation  were  competing. 
The  bands  were  playing;  people  were  yelling;  and  all  at  once  the 
athletes  marched  into  the  field.  They  stood  in  perfect  alignment.  Sud- 
denly everything  became  silent,  and  a  grave  dignified  gentleman  marched 
forth  to  shake  hands  with  the  athletes. 

Who  was  he?  The  Earl  of  Athlone,  the  Governor  General  of 
South  Africa,  the  brother  of  Queen  Mary  of  England.  The  majesty 
of  the  great  kingdom  of  Great  Britain  was  present. 

This  silence  seemed  to  strike  me  and  I  thought,  if  only  something 
could  be  done  in  some  kind  of  way  to  get  such  a  great  man  to  recognize  a 
few  Mormons.  A  little  poem  came  into  my  mind.  The  author  I  do  not 
know. 

Some  one  said  that  it  couldn't  be  done, 

But  he,  with  a  chuckle,  replied, 
That  maybe  it  couldn't,  but  he'd  be  one 

Who  wouldn't  say  so  until  he  tried. 
So  he  buckled  in  with  a  bit  of  a  grin 

On  his  face,  if  he  worried  he  hid  it, 
He  started  to  sing  as  he  tackled  the  thing 

That  couldn't  be  done,  and  he  did  it. 


ELDER  DON  MACK  D ALTON 


39 


Some  one  said,  Oh,  you'll  never  do  that, 

At  least  no  one  has  ever  done  it; 
But  he  took  off  his  coat  and  he  took  off  his  hat, 

And  the  first  thing  we  knew  he'd  begun  it. 
With  a  lift  of  his  chin  and  a  bit  of  a  grin, 

Without  any  doubting  or  "quit  it," 
He  started  to  sing  as  he  tackled  the  thing 

That  couldn't  be  done,  and  he  did  it. 

It  seemed  that  as  I  looked  for  an  opportunity,  as  time  passed,  all  at 
once  the  thought  of  baseball  came  into  the  minds  of  the  people.  We 
organized  a  team  among  the  missionaries  and  began  to  get  write-ups. 
Suddenly  baseball  began  to  take  precedence  over  the  national  game  of 
cricket,  until  soon  we  were  playing  to  nice  crowds.  The  newspapers 
that  previously  would  give  us  no  recognition  whatsoever,  began  to 
write  about  the  Mormon  missionaries,  to  tell  the  people  something 
about  us.  What  did  it  mean?  It  meant  that  we  were  gaining  the 
confidence  of  the  people.  And  then  we  had  a  great  match  game 
against  Transvaal,  the  land  of  gold.  The  other  team  came  to  Cape- 
town to  play.  All  was  ready.  Here  were  six  missionaries,  with  other 
baseball  players,  lined  out  in  front  of  a  tremendous  grand-stand  filled 
with  spectators,  and  amid  the  stillness  that  prevailed  the  Governor- 
General  of  that  great  land  shook  hands  with  six  Mormon  missionaries. 
A  similar  occurrence  took  place  last  March. 

This  impressed  the  people  so  much  that  upon  my  departure  one  of 
the  big  business  men  of  that  town  came  to  my  wife  and  me,  and  he  said : 
"Mr.  Dalton,  you  do  not  know  what  a  great  thing  you  have.  It  is  the 
greatest  thing  in  all  this  world.  Anything  that  will  make  young  men  do 
as  your  young  men  do  is  the  greatest  thing  on  this  earth." 

I  was  very  much  pleased  to  find,  as  we  went  along  in  our  work,  that 
the  Lord  blessed  us,  and  though  we  were  far  away  from  the  authorities 
of  the  Church,  and  were  lacking  their  advice  in  many  particulars,  the 
Lord  answered  the  prayers  of  the  missionaries  and  myself. 

My  wife  and  I,  while  returning  home,  made  a  trip  around  the 
world  and  visited  very  many  nations.  While  in  Italy  we  had  the  distinc- 
tion of  visiting  the  Pope  of  Rome  and  the  Vatican,  and  seeing  the  marvel- 
ous earthly  power  of  that  great  dominion.  We  also  visited  Greece  and 
Turkey,  and  then  went  into  Syria  and  Palestine  and  saw  the  Armenian 
saints,  who  are  doing  a  faithful  work,  under  President  Piranian.  We 
found  in  Palestine  need  for  great  improvement.  Jerusalem  is  a  hill  of 
rocks,  it  seems  to  me.  May  the  Lord  bless  that  country.  It  needs  it 
greatly. 

While  going  over  that  great  land  of  Africa  I  could  appreciate  how 
hard  the  authorities  of  this  Church  have  to  work.  With  the  little  pre- 
siding capacity  that  I  had  I  sometimes  felt  fatigued  with  the  constant  roll 
of  the  car  wheels  under  my  ears  as  I  traveled  for  thousands  and  thou- 
sands of  miles,  trying  to  reach  the  people.  I  thought  of  what  the  author- 
ities of  the  Church  have  to  undergo  in  order  to  reach  the  people  as  they 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


do,  visiting  the  wards  and  stakes  and  missions  and  holding  meetings  with 
them.  Let  me  tell  you  that  these  great  men  are  the  hardest-worked  men 
in  all  this  world,  I  believe,  and  we  should  sympathize  with  them,  and  do 
what  they  say,  and  comfort  them,  and  I  am  sure  we  will  not  go  amiss. 

In  my  heart  there  rings  a  melody.  I  am  thrilled  constantly  with 
my  testimony  of  the  Gospel.  I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  that  President  Grant  is  his  legal  successor 
in  office.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  felt  it  in  every  part  ot  my 
body  when  I  visited  his  birthplace  in  Bethlehem. 

Oh,  if  we  could  only  realize  more  fully  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  put  it  into  our  lives  effectively,  so  that  other  people  might  recog- 
nize the  truth  by  reason  of  what  we  do  and  say,  I  am  sure  that  those  not 
of  our  faith  would  have  greater  friendship  for  us.  Why  ?  Because  they 
would  have  more  confidence  in  us,  and  we  cannot  get  friendship  before 
we  get  confidence. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  I  ask,  in  his  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  deeply  impressed  with  this  vast  assembly  of  worshippers,  and 
it  has  brought  to  my  mind  an  incident  in  the  life  of  the  Master  con- 
cerning his  interview  with  the  woman  of  Samaria  at  Jacob's  Well.  He 
departed  from  Jerusalem  to  return  to  his  native  Galilee.  He  was  weary 
with  his  journey.  He  arrived  at  Jacob's  Well  about  noon  and  rested 
on  the  curb  of  the  well  while  some  of  his  disciples  went  into  the  village 
to  buy  food.  While  they  were  away,  a  woman  came  to  draw  water  from 
the  well,  and  Jesus  said  to  her,  "Give  me  to  drink."  She  expressed  sur- 
prise that  a  Jew  should  ask  her  for  a  drink,  she  being  a  Samaritan,  for, 
as  she  said,  the  Jews  had  no  dealings  with  the  Samaritans.  During  the 
conversation  the  Master  said  that  whoever  drank  of  the  water  of  the 
well  would  thirst  again,  but  whoever  drank  of  the  water  that  he  would 
give  should  never  thirst,  for  the  water  would  be  in  him  as  a  well  of 
water  springing  up  into  everlasting  life.  The  conversation  continued, 
and,  because  of  his  statement  regarding  her  past  life,  she  was  impelled  to 
say,  "Sir,  I  perceive  that  thou  art  a  prophet." 

The  woman  then  brought  up  the  age-old  question  of  worship,  and 
this  is  the  subject  which  I  desire  to  call  to  your  attention.   She  said : 

Our  fathers  worshipped  in  this  mountain;  [meaning  Gerizim]  and  ye 
say,  that  in  Jerusalem  is  the  place  where  men  ought  to  worship 

The  Master  answered  her : 

Woman,  believe  me,  the  hour  cometh,  when  ye  shall  neither  in  this 
mountain,  nor  yet  in  Jerusalem,  worship  the  Father. 

Ye  worship  ye  know  not  what :  we  know  what  we  worship :  for  salva- 
tion is  of  the  Jews. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


41 


The  Jews  had  a  system  of  worship  based  on  the  knowledge  of  God 
and  his  attributes  given  to  them  through  their  leaders  and  prophets  of  old. 
The  Samaritans  accepted  only  the  five  Books  of  Moses.  They  were 
without  an  authorized  priesthood  and  had  drifted  somewhat  into  idola- 
try.   Jesus  continued : 

The  hour  cometh,  and  now  is,  when  the  true  worshippers  shall 
worship  the  Father  in  spirit  and  in  truth :  for  the  Father  seeketh  such  to 
worship  him. 

God  is  a  spirit:  and  they  that  worship  him  must  worship  him  in- spirit 
and  in  truth :  for  the  Father  seeketh  such  to  worship  him. 

No  doubt  the  Master  intended  to  convey  in  these  words  that  the 
worship  of  the  Father  should  not  be  confined  to  Jerusalem  or  to  the 
synagogues  of  the  Jews,  or  to  Samaria,  but  that  wherever  his  Gospel 
was  preached,  the  Father  should  be  worshipped  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

Worship  comes  to  us  from  two  Anglo-Saxon  words  meaning 
worthy-ship.  The  more  comprehensive  our  knowledge  of  the  object  of 
our  worship,  the  more  intelligent  and  sincere  will  be  our  devotion  to 
him.  It  is  inborn  in  man  to  worship,  but  true  worship  is  the  spiritual  life 
of  the  soul.  It  is  sweet  communion  with  God.  To  worship  in  spirit 
and  in  truth  is  to  worship  in  meekness,  humility,  and  sincerity. 

We  have  not  been  left  in  doubt  as  to  whom  to  worship.  The  Master 
when  tempted  of  Satan  said : 

For  it  is  written,  thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God  and  him  only 
shalt  thou  serve. 

In  this  day,  as  recorded  in  Section  20  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  the  statement  is  made : 

And  we  know  that  all  men  must  repent  and  believe  on  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  worship  the  Father  in  his  name,  and  endure  in  faith  on 
his  name  to  the  end,  or  they  cannot  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

We  give  homage  and  reverence  in  our  worship  to  our  Father  in 
heaven  in  the  name  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

Worship  may  take  place  in  the  mountains,  in  the  forests,  by  the 
water's  edge,  as  well  as  in  our  homes.  However,  I  wish  to  direct  our 
attention  to  worship  in  the  chapels  or  buildings  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  are  used  for  sacred  purposes.  The  Lord  has  commanded  us  to  go 
to  the  house  of  prayer  on  his  Holy  Day  and  there  offer  up  our  oblations 
and  prayers  unto  him  and  partake  of  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper 
in  remembrance  of  the  sacrifice  of  our  Savior,  and  to  covenant  that  we 
will  keep  his  commandments  that  we  may  have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us. 
This  sacrament  meeting  is  the  basic  meeting  of  the  Church,  and  all  who 
have  reached  the  age  of  accountability  are  required  to  attend. 

In  order  that  we  may  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  with  us,  and  feel 
its  impressions,  our  conduct  must  be  in  keeping  with  the  occasion.  We 
should  maintain  an  attitude  of  worship  and  reverence  from  the  time  we 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


enter  the  chapel  until  the  services  are  closed  with  the  "Amen"  of  the 
benediction.  Until  the  meeting  opens,  our  conversation,  if  any,  should 
be  subdued  and  consist  of  a  friendly  greeting  only.  Children  should  sit 
with  their  parents,  for  parents  are  responsible  for  the  orderly  conduct 
of  their  children.  We  should  always  bear  in  mind  that  our  worship  will 
not  be  acceptable  to  God  unless  we  approach  him  on  this  solemn  occasion 
with  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  which  I  interpret  as  humility, 
meekness,  and  sincerity. 

Recently  I  attended  a  sacramental  meeting  where  there  was  the  true 
spirit  of  worship.  The  members  of  the  ward  entered  the  chapel  quietly, 
while  soft  music  was  rendered.  The  hymns  sung  by  the  congregation 
and  selections  given  by  the  ward  choir  were  sacred  in  character.  The 
prayers  were  appropriate  to  the  occasion.  The  sacrament  was  adminis- 
tered in  an  orderly  manner  and  in  the  spirit  of  solemnity  and  reverence. 
We  were  fed  the  bread  of  life  in  an  address  on  a  principle  of  the  Gospel. 
Here  we  truly  worshipped  the  Lord  in  spirit  and  in  truth. 

Our  ward  meeting  houses  are  the  centers  of  social  life  of  the  com- 
munity. Many  of  our  places  of  worship  are  of  necessity  used  for 
meetings  other  than  sacramental  services.  They  are  also  used  for  recrea- 
tional purposes.  Even  in  these  meetings,  in  order  that  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  be  present,  our  conduct  should  be  orderly  and  in  harmony 
with  the  spirit  of  the  purpose  for  which  the  building  was  erected.  There 
should  be  reverence  not  only  for  the  occasion,  but  for  the  place. 

Carlyle  has  said :  "No  greater  calamity  can  befall  a  nation  than  the 
loss  of  worship."  Then,  we  should  go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord  with 
the  spirit  of  worship  in  our  hearts,  and  our  minds  prepared  for  com- 
munion with  God.  The  hymns  of  praise,  the  prayers  of  thanksgiving, 
the  words  of  exhortation  and  comfort,  and  the  testimonies  of  the  restored 
Gospel  will  fill  our  hearts  with  appreciation  if  we  enter  that  place  of 
worship  in  the  right  spirit. 

Through  this  worship  there  will  come  into  our  hearts  greater  faith. 
We  shall  receive  courage  to  go  forward  in  life's  duties.  We  shall  renew 
our  covenants  with  the  Lord.  We  shall  be  brought  nearer  to  God  and 
to  our  fellowmen.  We  shall  acquire  a  deeper  understanding  of  the 
Gospel.  There  will  come  a  sense  of  gratitude  for  the  atonement  of  our 
Savior,  for  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  for  the  holy  priesthood,  for 
the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  for  our  membership  in  the 
Church,  and  for  opportunities  to  render  service  in  the  cause  of  God. 

My  soul  is  filled  with  thankfulness  for  the  many  blessings  which 
are  mine.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  am  happy  to  be  counted  worthy  to  hold  the  priest- 
hood, to  be  a  member  of  the  Church,  to  partake  of  the  blessings  of  the 
Gospel,  and  to  be  of  service  to  God  and  my  fellowmen.  I  feel  that  our 
meeting  houses  are  places  of  worship.  They  are  sacred  to  me.  No 
matter  what  meeting  of  the  Church  is  being  held  in  that  place  of  wor- 
ship, I  feel  that  I  am  on  holy  ground. 

May  we  as  an  assembly  of  worshippers  renew  our  determination  to 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


43 


have  greater  reverence  for  our  houses  of  worship  and  by  example  and 
precept  influence  others  to  have  more  reverence  for  these  sacred  places 
and  to  worship  God  as  he  has  commanded,  in  spirit  and  in  truth,  or,  in 
other  words,  in  meekness,  humility,  and  deep  sincerity,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  express  our  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  the  Summit  Stake 
Choir  and  to  their  conductor,  Sister  Judith  Anderson  Beard,  for  their 
beautiful  music. 

An  anthem,  "Arouse,  O  ye  mortals,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 
Elder  A.  Carlos  Schow,  President  of  the  Lehi  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning,  October  5. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  10  o'clock  a.  m., 
Saturday,  October  5. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  music  for  this  session  would  be 
furnished  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direction  of 
Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett. 

The  congregation  and  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  sang  the 
hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  saints." 

Elder  Fred  G.  Taylor,  President  of  the  New  York  Stake,  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

A  contralto  solo,  "Seraphic,"  (Rubenstein)  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Bessie 
Morley,  assisted  by  the  Singing  Mothers  chorus ;  violin  obligato  by  Pro- 
fessor William  M.  Hardiman. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  glorious  privilege  of 
meeting  with  you  in  this  great  conference  of  the  Church.  I  have  been 
inspired  by  what  has  been  said  and  earnestly  desire  that  I  may  con- 
tinue in  the  same  wonderful  spirit  that  has  characterized  the  remarks 
of  the  brethren  up  to  this  moment. 

RAPID  CHANGES  NOTED 

By  reason  of  some  impressions  that  I  have  received  in  visits  to 
some  of  the  missions  during  the  past  season  since  our  last  conference, 
and  having  had  the  great  privilege  of  being  present  at  the  dedication  of 
the  monument  at  the  Hill  Cumorah,  and  by  reason  of  some  conversa- 
tions which  I  had  with  some  distinguished  gentlemen  who  drove  many 
miles  to  come  to  that  dedication  and  asked  earnestly  concerning  the 
Church,  I  have  felt  that  the  changes  that  are  occurring  are  so  rapid  that 
we  can  probably  scarcely  appreciate  them,  being  so  close  to  them,  and 
then  perhaps  we  do  not  fully  understand  the  meaning  and  significance 
of  these  changes. 

I  have  been  led  to  appreciate  the  work  of  our  forefathers,  who 
subdued  this  desert  and  made  it  blossom  as  the  rose,  and  distinguished 
themselves  and  have  won  great  honor  and  credit  from  the  world,  every- 
where where  people  have  studied  the  achievements  of  the  pioneers. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


45 


COMMUNITY  LIFE  AMONG  THE  MORMONS 

I  read  in  a  book  recently  published  by  Mr.  Warren  H.  Wilson,  who 
discusses  rural  community  life  in  America,  the  following  introduction 
by  Professor  Thomas  Nixon  Carver  of  Harvard  University,  one  of  the 
outstanding  economists  of  the  world.  Speaking  of  those  elements  which 
have  made  for  ideal  rural  community  life,  Mr.  Carver  states: 

The  elements  of  permanent  cultivation  of  the  soil  are  found  in  great 
numbers  among  the  Mormons,  Scotch-Irish  Presbyterians  and  Pennsyl- 
vania Germans.  *  *  * 

The  best  farmers  in  the  country  are  the  Mormons,  the  Scotch  Presby- 
terians and  Pennsylvania  Germans. 

Then  Mr.  Wilson  in  his  book  says: 

The  Mormons  represent  this  organization,  these  outstanding  farmers 
of  America,  in  the  highest  degree.  Perhaps  no  other  so  large  or  so  power- 
ful a  body  of  united  farmers  is  found  in  the  whole  country. 

They  have  turned  the  force  of  religion  into  a  community-making 
power,  and  from  the  highest  to  the  lowest  of  their  church  officers  the 
Mormon  people  are  devoted  to  agriculture  as  a  mode  of  living. 

The  Mormons  are  organized  by  an  idea  and  by  the  power  of  leader- 
ship. They  have  recruited  their  population  through  preachers  and  mission- 
aries. This  new  population  is  woven  at  once  into  the  fabric  of  the  com- 
munity ;  they  are  married  to  the  community. 

The  organization  on  which  the  Mormon  community  is  based  becomes 
embodied  at  once  in  a  society  with  its  own  modes  of  religious,  family, 
and  moral  feeling  and  thought. 

The  Mormons  are  consolidated  both  by  formal  organization  and  by 
instinctive  preference  for  their  own  in  a  multitude  of  cooperative  habits, 
through  which  they  build  up  their  communities  and  contend  with  one 
another  against  their  economic  and  religious  opponents.  It  is  not  enough 
to  say  that  this  is  clannishness ;  it  is  a  mingling  of  kinship  and  religious 
preferences.  It  constitutes  the  strongest  form  of  agricultural  cooperation 
to  be  found  in  the  United  States. 


BUILDING  AN  ADVANCED  CIVILIZATION 

From  this  very  pulpit  I  heard,  as  some  of  you  did,  this  same  dis- 
tinguished gentleman,  Mr.  Carver,  say,  after  having  spent  two  summers 
in  Utah  at  the  Utah  State  Agricultural  College,  that  "the  philosophy  of 
life  involved  in  the  Mormon  Church  is  the  most  constructive  thing  I  have 
seen  in  American  life."  He  sees  only  "a  church  which  embraces  the 
whole  state  and  has  a  tremendous  pragmatic  value  for  its  adherents,  so 
well  is  it  organized,  so  much  is  it  the  center  of  all  community  pleasure, 
and  so  closely  does  it  endeavor  to  establish  heaven  on  earth." 

And  he  continued :  "I  have  never  found  more  sound  and  wholesome 
personal  habits  than  among  the  Mormons.  I  have  never  mingled  with 
people  who  showed  fewer  signs  of  dissipation.  I  have  never  studied 
groups  of  people  who  seemed  better  nourished  and  more  healthful.  I 
have  never  known  people  who  took  more  pains  to  educate  their  children. 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"This  gives  a  clue  to  the  success  of  the  Mormons  as  colonizers  and 
nation  builders." 

Further  he  said  that  if  he  were  hunting  the  whole  world  over  to 
find  some  one  building  an  advanced  civilization,  he  would  come  and 
learn  of  it  here  in  Utah  from  the  Mormons. 

NEW  DAY  REQUIRES  FURTHER  DEMONSTRATION 

Now,  that  period  is  past.  We  have  subdued  the  desert.  We  have 
distinguished  ourselves,  at  least  our  fathers  have,  in  doing  this  remark- 
able and  unusual  thing.  As  President  Theodore  Roosevelt  said  from 
this  very  pulpit :  "It  is  not  so  much  what  you  Mormons  did  as  where 
you  did  it  that  distinguished  you."  But  this  generation  cannot  exist  on 
the  honors  of  the  past.    We  must  make  our  own  contribution. 

And  now  it  appeals  to  me  that  we  have  moved  to  a  new  day,  the  day 
to  build  upon  that  foundation,  a  day  of  demonstration,  and  I  believe  that 
this  is  in  full  harmony  with  the  Lord's  program.  Let  me  read  to  you 
from  the  45th  Section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  this 
injunction  the  Lord  gave  to  his  Church : 

I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into  the  world  to  be  a  light 
to  the  world,  and  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the  Gentiles  to 
seek  to  it,  and  to  be  a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the  way  before 
me. 

And  in  the  115th  Section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
given  in  April,  1838  the  Lord,  among  other  things,  said: 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all  [speaking  to  the  Church]  :  Arise  and  shine 
forth,  that  thy  light  may  be  a  standard  for  the  nations. 

THE  CHURCH  A  STANDARD  FOR  THE  NATIONS 

And  in  the  103rd  Section,  in  a  revelation  given  in  one  of  the  dark 
hours  of  the  Church,  following  those  days  of  expulsion  from  Jackson 
County,  Missouri,  February  1834,  the  Lord  said : 

But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I  have  decreed  a  decree  which  my 
people  shall  realize,  inasmuch  as  they  hearken  from  this  very  hour  unto  the 
counsel  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God,  shall  give  unto  them. 

Behold  they  shall,  for  I  have  decreed  it,  begin  to  prevail  against  mine 
enemies  from  this  very  hour. 

And,  [here  are  the  conditions  of  this  marvelous  promise]  by  hearken- 
ing to  observe  all  the  words  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God,  shall  speak 
unto  them,  they  shall  never  cease  to  prevail  until  the  kingdoms  of  the  world 
are  subdued  under  my  feet,  and  the  earth  is  given  unto  the  saints,  to 
possess  it  forever  and  ever. 

But  inasmuch  as  they  keep  not  my  commandments,  and  hearken  not  to 
observe  all  my  words,  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  shall  prevail  against 
them. 

For  they  were  set  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world,  and  to  be  the  saviors 
of  men. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


47 


I  am  impressed,  therefore,  that  we  ought  to  be  conscious  of  a  new, 
or  at  least  an  enlarged  responsibility,  not  only  the  responsibility  to  adhere 
to  this  Mormon  way  of  life  that  was  set  forth  yesterday  by  all  the 
brethren  as  different  from  the  way  of  life  that  men  ordinarily  follow 
in  the  world,  for  the  personal  benefits  and  blessings  that  come  to  the 
individual  certainly,  but  also  there  is  another  reason  why  we  ought  to 
live  this  Mormon  way  of  life.  It  is  for  the  world's  sake.  It  is  for  the 
Lord's  sake.  He  did  set  us  to  be  a  light — we  haven't  aspired  to  it — but 
by  divine  appointment  we  are  set  to  be  the  light  of  the  world  and  to 
exalt  here  standards  for  the  nations,  that  the  promises  of  old  might  be 
some  day  fulfilled,  when  men  would  say : 

"Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the 
house  of  the  God  of  Jacob ;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will 
walk  in  his  paths."  For  that  is  the  purpose  of  this  Church,  to  become 
a  standard  for  the  nations. 

WORLD-WIDE  NEED  OF  MORMONISM 

It  does  seem  to  me  in  our  new  opportunities  that  the  Lord  has  been 
at  work  breaking  down  the  prejudice  of  the  past.  Oh,  how  I  rejoice 
that  those  who  have  fought  against  us,  that  the  powers  of  evil  that  have 
arrayed  every  force  with  which  they  have  successfully  destroyed  every 
other  gospel  dispensation  have  utterly  failed,  and  that  our  fathers,  who 
were  able  to  stand  like  beaten  anvils  under  all  the  fire  that  was  hurled 
against  them,  have  survived  and  given  evidence  that  they  were  in  God's 
favor  because  they  have  succeeded. 

And  now  comes,  I  say,  a  new  opportunity,  the  day  of  demonstra- 
tion, when  the  world  is  fast  losing  its  faith.  When  I  think  of  a  great 
nation  like  Russia  turning  entirely  away  from  Christianity,  and  the 
great  nation  of  Germany,  that  contributed  perhaps  more  to  the  establish- 
ment of  religious  liberty  and  the  establishment  of  Protestantism  than 
any  other  nation  in  the  world,  turning  away  from  Christianity,  and 
some  there  are  trying  to  introduce  a  religion,  in  some  respects  pagan, 
and  other  nations  being  influenced  by  the  same  spirit — I  discover  a  need 
for  Mormonism  in  the  world,  and  it  is  apparent  that  men  are  beginning 
to  realize  it  more  than  ever  before. 

WHAT  IS  THE  MATTER  WITH  CHRISTIANITY? 

In  a  book  recently  published  entitled  "Why  Wars  Must  Cease," 
Mrs.  Carrie  Chapman  Catt,  one  of  the  leading  American  women  pioneers 
in  the  great  woman's  movement  of  the  world,  says: 

The  threat  of  hostilities  challenges  Christian  statesmanship  which, 
heretofore,  has  found  itself  helpless  to  prevent  war. 

Wars  did  not  decrease  after  the  advent  of  the  Christian  era ;  Instead, 
they  grew  more  terrible,  each  more  bloody  and  destructive  than  the 
previous  one. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  most  startling  fact  about  the  World  War  is  that  it  was  a 
Christian  war.  Christian  nations  began  it,  Christian  nations  led  on  both 
sides,  and  kept  it  going  until  the  bitter  end. 

She  asks : 

What  is  the  matter  with  Christianity?  We  have  waited  nineteen 
hundred  years  for  Christianity  to  reach  the  zenith  of  its  power  in  wealth 
and  in  membership,  and  then  we  found  it  utterly  helpless  to  save  the 
world  from  one  of  its  greatest  catastrophes,  war. 

POWER  OF  GODLINESS  LACKING 

And  war  comes  out  of  the  spirit  of  men,  the  spirit  of  greed,  the 
spirit  of  selfishness  and  of  hatred,  all  of  which  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  could  eliminate  from  the  hearts  of  men. 

In  this  very  hour  in  a  mighty  Christian  nation,  where  there  is  the 
seat  of  the  largest  Christian  denomination  of  the  world,  the  members 
of  that  church,  not  listening  to  the  pleadings  of  their  own  leader  for 
peace,  are  waging  one  of  the  most  unjust  wars  that  was  ever  inaugurated 
against  a  poor  and  defenseless  people,  and  all  to  gratify  the  vain  ambi- 
tions of  those  whose  hearts  are  filled,  not  with  the  spirit  of  the  Master, 
the  spirit  of  love,  but  with  greed  and  with  hatred. 

What  does  it  all  indicate?  It  proclaims  that  what  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  said  to  Joseph  Smith  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago  is  true, 
that  these  institutions  built  in  his  name  have  a  form  of  godliness  but 
they  lack  the  power  thereof. 

I  do  not  condemn  my  brethren  of  other  Christian  churches.  Among 
them  I  find  many  noble  and  great  men,  whose  hearts  are  set  upon  doing 
right,  but  they  struggle  helplessly  to  accomplish  the  things  their  hearts 
desire.  To  me  they  are  in  institutions  that  have  the  form  but  not  the 
power  that  was  in  the  Church  of  Christ  as  he  originally  endowed  it, 
and  so  I  have  no  spirit  to  criticize  them. 

DEMONSTRATORS  FOR  GOD 

What  I  rejoice  over  is  that  with  the  new  day  that  is  coming,  the 
works  of  this  people,  speaking  in  mighty  tones,  will  attract  the  attention 
of  the  thinkers  of  the  world  that  here  is  something  more  than  a  theory, 
for  there  are  those  willing  to  follow  theories  in  Russia  and  in  Germany 
and  elsewhere ;  but  here  is  a  plan  advocated  by  this  Church  that  would 
meet  and  solve  every  human  problem,  if  only  the  Latter-day  Saints  and 
the  world  would  subscribe  to  it,  the  Lord's  plan  for  human  happiness  and 
the  elimination  of  war  and  distress  and  there  are  a  hundred  years  of 
practical  demonstration  behind  our  theory.    It  does  work. 

Therefore  I  see  a  new  reason  why  every  Latter-day  Saint  should 
live  up  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Do  you  want  to  produce  a  nation  of 
men  and  women  perfect  physically  in  this  age  when  the  world  is 
troubled,  and  tomorrow  will  be  more  seriously  troubled  by  the  painful 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


49 


effects  of  disregarding  the  Lord's  plan  of  life?  Do  you  want  to  dis- 
tinguish yourselves  ?  You  will  never  do  it  by  living  like  the  world  lives. 
You  are  demonstrators  for  God  and  are  to  save  the  world  from  its 
utter  loss  of  faith  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Redeemer  and  Savior  of  man- 
kind. 

SOLUTION  OF  WORLD'S  PROBLEMS  IN  CHURCH  PLAN 

Do  we  want  to  save  the  world  from  its  economic  troubles  and 
distresses  ?  Behold  the  Lord's  plan,  this  principle  of  fasting  which  the 
Lord  has  given  us,  that  once  a  month  we  abstain  from  food.  Oh,  what 
a  splendid  exercise  that  is  to  obtain  spiritual  control  over  the  physical 
desires  of  men  and  make  our  contribution !  If  every  Latter-day  Saint 
had  lived  up  to  that  law  of  the  Lord,  supplemented  by  the  law  of  tithing, 
that  perfect,  that  just  law — just  to  the  rich  as  well  as  to  the  poor — we 
would  have  been  the  only  people  in  the  United  States  who  would  not 
have  been  on  relief. 

Do  not  imagine  that  the  world's  problems  are  going  to  be  solved 
by  the  schemes  of  men.  They  will  be  solved  and  solved  permanently, 
not  by  one  class  filled  with  hatred  toward  another,  but  by  love  and 
brotherhood,  in  which  every  man  makes  his  contribution,  rich  and  poor 
alike,  for  the  common  well-being  of  mankind,  that  is  found  alone  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

WE  SHALL  BE  DIFFERENT 

When  that  time  comes— and  it  is  here  now — we  shall  need  the 
strength  of  the  pioneer,  the  strength  to  live  up  to  our  moral  standards, 
to  maintain  the  Mormon  way  of  life,  to  enter  into  marriage  that  binds 
us  in  love  and  fellowship  and  union  for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  and 
have  children,  the  heritage  of  the  Lord,  to  bless  that  marriage.  Then 
we  shall  be  different  from  the  world  that  is  fast  drifting  into  divorce, 
into  childless  marriages,  and  attract  the  attention  of  the  world. 

If  you  want  to  distinguish  yourselves  keep  the  commandments  of 
God  and  you  will  find  blessings  personally  and  we  will  be  teaching  a 
lesson,  holding  aloft  the  standards  that  will  attract  good  men  and  good 
women  elsewhere  and  they  will  come  to  learn  of  our  ways  and  to  walk 
in  our  paths. 

The  Lord  has  also  enjoined  upon  us  the  responsibility  of  being  our 
brother's  keeper,  of  being  men  and  women  who  are  bound  in  love.  It 
is  inspiring  to  me  when  I  think  of  this  demonstration,  men  and  women 
from  all  parts  of  the  world  brought  into  this  Church,  amalgamated  into 
one  people  in  the  great  melting  pot  in  glorious  America,  with  love 
existing  in  the  hearts  of  these  men  and  women  of  all  nations.  If  the 
same  spirit  that  is  in  your  hearts  were  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  of  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth  there  couldn't  be  any  war.  There  would  be  no 
need  of  parliaments  to  reduce  armament.    Peace  would  come  to  men. 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  demonstration,  I  say,  is  one  of  the  unusual  things  that  is  and  will 
attract  the  attention  of  men  everywhere. 

So  I  feel  a  new  interest  should  awaken  in  the  heart  of  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  towards  the  world,  and  by  adhering  to  these  standards  of 
living,  as  the  Lord  has  enjoined  us,  we  can  solve  the  problems  for  our- 
selves and  be  ready  to  demonstrate  before  the  world.  I  fear  that  the 
world  will  be  looking  to  us  long  before  some  of  us  are  ready. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  AND  DESTINY 

Oh,  I  pray  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  on  the  dole,  get 
off  relief  just  as  soon  as  you  can.  If  you  don't  you  will  be  thrown  off 
and  it  will  be  a  sorry  day  when  that  time  comes.  Get  off  and  get  on 
your  own  feet.  Let  us  all,  rich  and  poor  alike,  band  together  to  show 
the  world  that  Christianity  has  been  weighed  in  the  balance  and  found 
wanting,  for  it  is  not  vested  with  the  power  of  God  that  once  was  in 
the  Church  of  Christ,  that  a  great  apostasy  has  swept  over  the  earth, 
and  that  men  have  a  form  of  godliness  but  they  lack  the  power.  It  is 
our  responsibility  to  show  a  doubtful  and  skeptical  world  that  there  is 
power,  there  is  strength,  there  is  ability  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  to  fulfil  all  the  expectations  of  the  Master  and  here 
establish  a  people  that  shall  be  the  light  of  the  world,  the  salt  of  the  earth. 

God  help  us  to  keep  our  eyes  upon  our  destiny.  God  give  us  the 
strength  to  meet  the  situation,  to  conquer  and  master  and  overcome  the 
flesh  and  subscribe  to  these  standards  of  living,  for  the  great  joy  that 
shall  be  ours  who  participate  in  it,  and  then  in  the  day  when  from  the 
ends  of  the  earth  people  shall  come  to  learn  of  our  ways  we  will  not  be 
ashamed  for  them  to  come  close  unto  us  and  look  upon  us  and  learn  of 
our  ways.  It  will  be  harder  to  conquer  ourselves  than  to  subdue  the 
desert. 

God  help  us  and  prepare  us  to  fulfil  in  our  day,  as  gloriously  as  our 
fathers  did  in  their  day,  the  assignment  that  now  is  ours,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  the  sight  which  greets  one's  eyes 
from  this  pulpit  is  indeed  inspiring  and  leads  one  to  thoughts  which  are 
beyond,  perhaps,  his  ordinary  manner  and  way  of  thinking. 

As  I  listened  to  the  beautiful  discourse  which  was  given  just  a  few 
moments  ago  by  our  beloved  apostle  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  I  thought  of 
the  masterful  things  which  have  been  accomplished  by  our  forefathers, 
the  things  which  have  been  done  by  those  pioneers  laboring  here  in  that 
barren  wilderness  which  they  found.  I  thought  of  the  hauling  and 
hewing  of  the  rocks  for  that  great  Temple,  and  the  delicate  work  of  the 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


51 


blessed  hands  of  those  masters  who  have  passed  and  gone,  who  laid 
the  foundations  of  this  building  and  reared  it  even  to  the  time  when 
you  and  I  should  enjoy  it  as  we  now  are  enjoying  it. 

This  congregation  speaks  wonderfully  and  well  of  the  things  which 
the  forefathers  gave  unto  vis,  that  we  might  go  on  and  carry  forward  the 
work  which  was  in  their  hearts  and  in  their  minds,  even  to  the  day  when 
God  should  say:  "It  is  well  done." 

Speaking  one  day  to  his  disciples,  Jesus  Christ  said  to  them : 

Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  the  Father  in  my  name,  he  will  give  it  you. 
Hitherto  have  ye  asked  nothing  in  my  name :  ask,  and  ye  shall  receive, 
that  your  joy  may  be  full. 

And  then,  turning  to  his  disciples,  after  having  told  them  that  he 
came  to  the  earth  and  was  to  return  to  his  Father,  he  said : 

Do  ye  now  believe? 

Behold,  the  hour  cometh,  yea,  is  now  come,  that  ye  shall  be  scattered, 
every  man  to  his  own,  and  shall  leave  me  alone;  and  yet  I  am  not  alone, 
because  the  Father  is  with  me. 

So  I  am  led  to  think,  and  feel,  that  the  Father  has  been  with  this 
people  ever  since  the  cradle  days  of  1830,  when  that  little  handful  of 
people  came  westward  and  builded,  as  you  now  see,  the  praiseworthy 
things  that  have  been  moulded  by  them. 

God  has  always  been  a  jealous  God,  blessing  those  who  relied  upon 
him  and  who  paid  attention  to  the  commandments  which  he,  through 
his  servants,  throughout  all  ages  of  the  world  has  given.  Do  you  recall 
in  the  old  days,  that  great  servant  of  the  Lord  who  led  the  hosts  of 
Syria,  how  he,  being  afflicted  with  leprosy,  after  having  come  back 
from  his  victorious  march,  was  told  by  a  little  maiden,  .who  was  a 
captive,  that  God,  the  Lord,  the  Father  of  all,  could  heal  and  cure  him? 
So  we  find  him  presenting  himself,  with  his  horses  and  his  chariots, 
at  the  door  of  Elisha,  and  this  great  and  mighty  prophet  saying  to  him 
to  go  and  bathe  himself  seven  times  in  the  River  Jordan.  Then  Naaman, 
being  rebellious,  said:  "No,  there  are  better  streams  in  my  land.  Why 
bathe  in  the  River  Jordan?"  Yet  those  who  surrounded  him  prevailed 
upon  him  and  he  went  and  bathed  in  the  River  Jordan,  with  the  result 
that  he  was  healed  completely.   Coming  back  he  said : 

Behold,  now  I  know  that  there  is  no  God  in  all  the  earth,  but  in  Israel. 

God  Almighty  has  prepared  the  way  for  this  people.  He  will  open 
up  avenues  for  us  that  we  have  never  dreamed  of.  He  will  lead  us  before 
the  people  of  the  world  in  such  a  way  and  in  such  a  manner  that  they, 
paying  attention  to  the  things  which  we  do  through  the  keeping  of  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  and  obeying  his  word,  shall  give  praise 
unto  God,  our  Eternal  Father. 

I  know  the  difficulties,  I  know  the  troubles  and  I  know  the  distress 
with  which  some  of  us  are  faced.   I  see  these  things  as  I  go  from  place 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  place,  up  and  down  these  great  stretches.  Yet,  as  God  says  through 
the  Prophet  Amos,  "I  have  given  you  cleanness  of  teeth  in  all  your 
cities,  and  want  of  bread  in  all  your  places,  yet  have  ye  not  returned  unto 
me. 

I  say  unto  you  that  God  can  and  will  relieve  us  of  our  burdens. 
Remember  the  days  when  the  Psalmist  said  that,  "He  raiseth  up  the  poor 
out  of  the  dust  and  lifteth  the  needy  out  of  the  dunghill ;  that  he  may 
set  him  with  princes." 

All  things  are  possible  through  work, — hard  work — and  a  reliance 
upon  our  Lord  God.  I  think  there  is  nothing  that  can  not  be  accom- 
plished by  this  people,  and  that  will  not  be  accomplished  by  them,  if, 
however,  we  will  but  put  our  trust  in  God,  if  we  will  but  go  back  to  the 
old  principles  which  were  given  us  by  our  leaders  from  the  very  com- 
mencement, when  that  great  man,  Brigham  Young,  taught  us  to  be 
frugal,  to  work,  to  strive,  and  that  the  glory  and  the  honor  of  honest 
work  was  godly  in  its  nature. 

If  we  will  return  to  those  ways,  then  at  the  same  time,  with  humble, 
contrite  hearts,  pray,  not  to  our  father  who  is  in  Washington,  but  to 
our  Father  who  is  in  heaven, — if  these  things  shall  be  done  by  this  people 
we  shall  arise  until  we  will  have  climaxed  and  brought  about  those 
beautiful  things  which  Brother  Ballard  has  suggested  to  us. 

God  grant  us  the  ability  and  the  power  and  the  courage  to  carry  on 
and  to  do  those  things  which  from  time  to  time  are  told  us  of  the  Lord, 
through  his  servants,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Holy  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society  Sing- 
ing Mothers ;  Lucy  Gates  Bowen,  soloist ;  Lydia  White  Boothby,  harp- 
ist ;  William  Hardiman,  violinist. 

The  congregation  then  sang  the  hymn,  "School  thy  feelings,  O  m; 
brother." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would 
sing  the  hymn,  "School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother."  This  hymn,  the 
President  said,  was  written  by  Elder  Charles  W.  Penrose  after  he  had 
given  ten  years  of  his  life  as  a  missionary,  without  purse  or  scrip.  When 
he  started  on  his  mission  he  lent  his  furniture  to  the  British  Mission,  and 
after  completing  ten  years  of  missionary  work  he  took  back  his  battered 
furniture,  it  having  been  used  by  the  elders  during  this  time,  and  sold 
it  to  get  money  with  which  to  help  him  immigrate  to  Utah.  He  was 
accused  of  stealing  the  furniture  out  of  the  British  Mission  home.  He 
went  home  and  wrote  this  hymn  for  his  own  consolation. 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


53 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  am  very  much  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  this 
privilege  of  standing  before  you  for  a  few  moments  to  report  the 
Canadian  Mission.  I  feel  it  a  great  honor  that  has  come  to  me,  and  I 
deeply  sense  that  there  is  also  a  great  responsibility  attached  to  that 
honor.  I  sincerely  pray  that  I  may  fulfil  that  responsibility  with  some 
degree  of  success. 

I  have  enjoyed  very  much  the  three  and  a  half  months  I  have  spent 
in  the  Canadian  Mission.  Sister  Rich  and  I  have  been  happy  there.  We 
have  felt  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  upon  our  work.  I  am 
pleased  at  this  time  to  bring  to  you  greetings  from  the  missionaries  and 
the  saints  in  the  Canadian  Mission,  and  should  like  to  say  to  the  parents 
of  those  young  men  and  women  who  are  lahoring  in  that  mission,  that 
I  may  not  get  to  see  personally,  that  I  have  seen  them  all  within  the 
last  three  weeks,  and  they  are  well,  both  physically  and  spiritually. 

It  has  been  a  wonderful  testimony  to  me  as  to  the  truth  of  the  Gos- 
pel, to  see  what  influence  the  Church  has  on  these  good  young  people 
when  they  devotedly  put  their  time  and  attention  to  it.  The  develop- 
ment and  growth  that  comes  into  their  lives  is  beautiful,  and  to  me  it  is 
further  testimony  of  the  wonderful  fruits  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 

The  saints  in  Canada  are  scattered  through  wide  areas.  They  envy 
you  brethren  and  sisters  in  Utah  the  privilege  you  have  of  associating 
with  great  numbers.  In  many  places  the  saints  are  isolated,  a  family 
here  and  a  family  there.  In  some  cases  they  get  to  see  a  Latter-day  Saint 
only  once  in  a  year,  and  that  only  when  an  elder  may  call.  It  is  always 
a  joy  and  a  happiness  to  us  to  find  them  still  faithful.  When  such  saints 
go  to  their  little  treasure  chest  and  bring  out  the  tithing  they  have  saved 
carefully  for  a  year,  and  we  ask  them:  "How,  in  this  time  of  stress, 
could  you  do  this  ?"  .they  have  said :  "Many  times  we  have  had  to  bor- 
row it,  but  it  is  a  joy  and  a  happiness  to  show  this  evidence  of  our  faith 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 

I  have  been  interested  very  much  in  another  fruit  of  Mormonism 
that  I  have  seen  since  I  have  been  in  the  Canadian  Mission.  It  is  in  con- 
nection with  the  young  people  with  whom  I  have  worked  all  my  life. 
I  have  seen  the  benefit  and  advantage  of  the  training  we  have  here  in 
Utah,  in  our  auxiliary  organizations,  in  our  church  schools  and  in  our 
seminaries.  I  have  seen  young  people  join  the  Church  in  Canada,  in 
the  various  branches,  with  just  as  fine  faith,  just  as  fine  young  people 
as  we  have  in  Utah,  but  they  lack  the  experience  and  the  development 
that  comes  through  these  organizations.  As  I  have  seen  this  growth,  and 
as  I  have  traveled  here  and  there  and  found  that  the  young  people  in 
the  world  are  open-minded,  that  they  are  anxious  to  receive  the  truth,  I 
have  thought  of  our  young  people  here  at  home,  and  the  great  responsi- 
bility that  is  devolving  upon  them  to  carry  the  Gospel  message  to  the 
world. 

Many  of  the  people  of  the  world  are  not  open  to  the  truths  of  the 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Their  minds  are  closed.  They  sometimes  are 
afraid  of  the  truth,  illustrated  very  much  by  a  lady  I  met  in  Nova  Scotia. 
When  she  was  invited  to  attend  our  meeting  she  said :  "I  would  like  to 
but  I  daren't,  for  fear  of  the  criticism  of  my  neighbors,  and  I  don't  know 
what  my  minister  would  say  if  I  should  attend  your  services."  On  the 
other  hand,  we  have  many  fine  people  who,  converted  to  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  do  not  care  what  the  world  says.  Their  minds  are  open 
to  the  truth,  and  they  accept  it  and  stand  firmly  for  it. 

Typical  of  this  type  of  individual  is  a  young  man  who  was  training 
for  the  ministry  and  who  became  very  much  devoted  to  his  church.  He 
had  influence  with  young  people.  He  had  gone  here  and  there  and 
gathered  up  seventeen  young  men  that  had  never  identified  themselves 
with  the  church,  and  became  their  teacher.  While  he  was  their  teacher 
in  one  of  the  Protestant  churches  of  the  world  he  met  the  Mormon 
missionaries.  His  mind  was  open  and  he  received  their  message,  but 
when  he  found  such  prejudice  against  him  he  still  stayed  with  his 
teaching  in  the  church  he  was  with.  His  parents  pleaded  with  him  not  to 
listen  to  the  message,  and  then  he  bore  this  testimony : 

At  one  time,  while  he  was  in  his  church  with  these  seventeen  young 
men  that  he  was  teaching,  around  him,  the  choir  sang  that  song,  a  line 
of  which  runs :  "Dare  to  be  a  Daniel,  dare  to  stand  alone" ;  and  he  said 
he  knew  then  that  he  must  stand  alone  and  that  he  must  dare  to  be  true 
to  the  convictions  that  he  felt.  He  joined  the  Church  and  became  the 
superintendent  of  our  Sunday  School  and  is  doing  a  mighty  fine  work. 

As  we  travel  here  and  there  and  see  these  signs  I  am  reminded  of 
what  Channing  Pollock,  one  of  America's  greatest  playwrights,  had  to 
say,  as  recorded  in  the  latest  Readers'  Digest,  about  the  "World's  Slow 
Stain."  He  said  that  we  begin  life  in  youth  with  our  ideals  high,  our 
banners  raised,  and  we  feel  that  this  divine  man  within  us  must  assert 
himself.  Then  as  we  go  on  through  life,  little  by  little,  he  said,  brick 
by  brick,  we  are  undermined  until  we  are  smeared  by  the  world's  slow 
stain  and  thus  led  off  by  detour  signs  from  the  ideals  we  set  ourselves. 
He  says,  how  beautiful  it  would  be  if,  like  one  great  playwright  has 
written,  we  could  be  born  old  and  grow  younger  and  cleaner  and  then, 
as  we  approach  the  end  of  this  life,  we  could  come  to  that  beautiful 
idealistic  period  of  adolescence  where  our  ideals  are  high  and  clean,  and 
approach  our  life  with  God  hereafter  with  our  ideals  still  unstained.  Yet, 
he  says,  with  all  this,  and  these  detour  signs  attracting  our  young  people 
away,  there  are  evidences  that  the  person  who  will  keep  his  ideals  high, 
who  will  refuse  to  be  detracted  by  these  detour  signs,  will  have  the 
world  welcome  him  and  the  world  honor  him. 

Emerson  is  called  the  wisest  American,  and  he,  like  the  wisest 
European  and  the  wisest  Oriental,  had  it  in  his  soul  to  make  no  com- 
promises. Being  aware  of  his  strength,  he  didn't  have  to  seek  for  ap- 
plause or  for  money.  We  are  told  that  the  first  book  he  wrote  sold 
so  few*  copies  that  he  lived  on  less  than  we  pay  our  chauffeur,  and  yet 
he  would  not  change  his  ideals  to  write  the  things  the  world  was  demand- 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


55 


ing.  When  he  was  invited  to  speak  before  the  divinity  school  of  one  of 
our  great  institutions,  and  was  literally  pelted  with  critical  brickbats,  he 
was  led  to  say,  when  they  asked  him  what  he  would  do  about  it,  "I 
shall  go  right  on  seeing  whatever  I  can  and  telling  what  I  see." 

So  today  we  honor  men  like  Emerson,  and  they  leave  for  us  a  story 
that  should  be  worth  while  to  the  American  youth,  and  especially  to  the 
youth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  those  of  the  noble  birthright,  that 
the  world  is  looking  to  and  the  world  is  anxiously  watching.  Will  the 
youth  of  Zion  carry  forth  the  ideals  set  by  their  ancestors  in  the  great 
sacrifices  they  made  ?  It  is  my  opinion  that  with  the  fine  set-up  we  have, 
with  the  homes  devoted  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  with  our  church 
school  system  and  seminaries,  that  our  young  people  will  be  able  to  hold 
high  their  ideals,  and  to  so  live  that  the  world  will  be  led  to  recognize 
that  the  youth  of  Zion,  truly  proud  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  will 
stand  forth  and  uphold  it  even  unto  the  end,  regardless  of  what  criticism 
may  come. 

I  am  very  happy  indeed  in  my  privilege  to  serve  in  this  new  capacity 
in -the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  am  happy  also  that  the  people  who 
are  converted  to  the  Gospel  in  Canada  are  in  love  with  you  people,  in 
love  with  Zion.  How  they  look  forward  to  coming  and  enjoying  the 
privileges  that  are  every  day  open  to  you,  this  privilege  you  have  today 
of  meeting  with  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  that  does  not  come  to  them 
only  possibly  once  a  year.  When  I  think  of  Apostle  Smoot's  visit  to  us 
this  last  year,  and  how  those  people,  many  of  them,  came  hundreds  of 
miles  to  see  him  and  shake  hands  with  him ;  the  good  he  did  them,  and 
the  honor  they  felt  in  having  seen  and  talked  with  an  Apostle,  I  think  of 
the  things  that  you  enjoy  in  Utah  that  they  do  not  enjoy  out  in  the 
world. 

Many  of  those  people  are  anxious  to  come  to  this  great  block  and 
participate  with  the  saints  in  the  beauties  that  are  here.  We  had 
several  of  our  people  come  to  Utah  last  summer,  and  I  was  so  happy 
when  they  returned  and  said:  "Oh,  we  found  things  in  Utah  beautiful, 
and  among  the  most  beautiful  of  the  things  we  found  were  the  saints. 
They  were  all  we  had  expected  to  find  them."  They  came  home  happy 
indeed  with  their  visit  here  in  Utah. 

These  are  the  things  that  are  telling  the  true  story  of  Mormonism 
to  the  world.  The  people  who  visit  us  go  back  with  honor  and  respect 
for  our  people  and  the  things  we  stand  for.  I  am  proud  to  be  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  this  new  capacity,  for  I  am 
receiving  joy  and  happiness  that  I  have  not  experienced  before. 

I  most  sincerely  pray  that  our  Father  in  heaven  will  bless  us  here 
in  Utah,  that  we  may  hold  high  the  standards  and  ideals  that  have  been 
set  for  us,  that  people  who  visit  among  us  may  continue  to  carry  the 
report  that  was  so  beautifully  illustrated  by  Brother  Ballard  this  morning, 
and  that  it  may  spread  wide  that  we  are  what  we  stand  for,  in  our  lives, 
in  our  ideals,  as  well  as  in  our  teachings.  I  pray  that  the  Lord's 
choicest  blessings  may  be  with  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  earnestly  pray  that  I  may  be  guided  and  directed  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  during  the  few  moments  that  I  occupy  here  this  morning. 

I  am  deeply  impressed  with  the  great  drama  that  is  being  enacted 
upon  this  world's  stage.  Shakespeare  tells  us  that  "all  the  world's  a 
stage,  and  all  the  men  and  women  merely  players."  It  is  a  wonderful 
thing  that  is  taking  place  before  our  very  eyes.  This  drama  is  one  of 
great  importance  to  every  man,  woman  and  child. 

There  was  a  prologue  to  this  drama,  enacted  in  heaven  before  the 
foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid.  In  this  prologue  the  purpose  of 
the  Almighty  with  reference  to  his  sons  and  daughters  who  had  been 
begotten  of  him  in  the  spirit  before  the  world  was  made,  was  vividly 
portrayed — unfolding  the  divine  plan  of  life  and  salvation — greatly  to 
the  delight  of  his  children,  especially  those  great  and  noble  ones  of  that 
primeval  day,  the  morning  stars,  for  their  hearts  were  filled  with  joy 
and  gladness  and  they  sang  together  in  a  mighty  chorus  and  shouted  for 
joy.  Let  me  refer  to  scriptures  which  have  a  significant  bearing  on  this 
thrilling  episode  of  human  history.  That  we  were  begotten  of  God  in 
the  spirit  and  that  just  such  a  prologue  was  enacted  is  clearly  indicated 
in  the  following  simple  narratives  in  holy  writ: 

And  Adam  knew  Eve  his  wife;  and  she  conceived,  and  bare  Cain, 
and  said,  I  have  gotten  a  man  from  the  Lord.  (Gen.  4:1.) 

From  this  we  may  readily  conclude  that  all  children  born  to  earthly 
parents  are  gotten  from  the  Lord  and  that  earthly  fathers  and  mothers 
are  the  divinely  appointed  guardians  of  God's  children,  for  he  is  the 
Father  of  our  spirits  and  is  appropriately  addressed  when  we  approach 
him  in  prayer  as  "Our  Father  in  heaven." 

Again  : 

Furthermore  we  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh  which  corrected  us,  and 
we  gave  them  reverence;  shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjection  unto 
the  Father  of  spirits,  and  live?  (Heb.  12:9.) 

And  again: 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations  of  the  earth?  declare, 
if  thou  hast  understanding.  *  *  * 

When  the  morning  stars  sang  together,  and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted 
for  joy?  (Job  38:4,  7.) 

A  fuller  and  more  complete  presentation  of  this  prologue  is  set 
forth  in  the  Book  of  Abraham :  3 :22-28 : 


Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was ;  and  among  all  these  there  were 
many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones ; 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


57 


And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they  were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the 
midst  of  them,  and  he  said :  These  I  will  make  my  rulers ;  for  he  stood 
among  those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that  they  were  good;  and  he 
said  unto  me :  Abraham,  thcu  art  one  of  them ;  thou  wast  chosen  before 
thou  wast  born. 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an  earth  whereon 
these  may  dwell. 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them ; 

And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon;  and  they 
who  keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom 
with  those  who  keep  their  first  estate;  and  they  who  keep  their  second 
estate  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever. 

And  the  Lord  said:  Whom  shall  I  send?  And  one  answered  like  unto 
the  Sen  of  Man :  Here  am  I,  send  me.  And  another  answered  and  said : 
Here  am  I,  send  me.   And  he  Lord  said :  I  will  send  the  first. 

And  the  second  was  angry,  and  kept  not  his  first  estate;  and,  at  that 
day,  many  followed  after  him. 

No  wonder  that  there  was  rejoicing  in  heaven  among  the  children 
of  God  upon  hearing  this  marvelous  proclamation.  Those  who  kept 
their  first  estate  were  to  be  added  upon.  In  other  words,  there  was  to 
be  added  to  their  immortal  spirits  these  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones.  All 
who  now  live  upon  this  earth  or  ever  have  lived  or  shall  live  upon  it  are 
they  who  kept  their  first  estate  in  the  spirit  world  before  the  foundations 
of  the  earth  were  laid  and  are  now  to  be  given  the  opportunity  of  proving 
their  fitness  for  celestial  glory.  To  this  end  they  are  given  the  span 
of  human  life — a  period  of  probation — to  "prove  them  herewith,  to  see 
if  they  will  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command 
them."  All  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  shall  command  are  embodied 
in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  now  if  they  keep  their  second  estate 
or  in  other  words,  obey  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  this  probationary 
period,  "they  shall  have  glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever." 

This  is  the  covenant — the  everlasting  covenant  which  God  made 
with  his  children  in  that  primeval  day  while  they  were  yet  in  the  spirit 
and  concerning  which  we  read  so  much  in  the  scriptures.  With  these 
glorious  promises  and  the  holy  covenant  by  which  God  binds  himself  to 
us  if  we  enter  into  it  with  him  and  keep  the  same  inviolate,  or  in  other 
words,  keep  our  second  estate,  the  curtain  falls  and  the  prologue  is 
ended  and  the  recollection  of  it  is  withheld. 

For  a  wise  and  glorious  purpose, 
Thou  hast  placed  me  here  on  earth; 
And  withheld  the  recollection 
Of  my  former  friends  and  birth. 

The  first  act  of  this  great  drama  was  performed  in  the  Garden  of 
Eden.  Among  the  features  of  that  act,  our  eyes  were  to  be  opened. 
The  recollection  of  our  previous  existence  was  withheld  from  us.  Wp 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


were  to  be  agents  unto  ourselves,  and  the  peculiar  part  that  each  one  of 
us  had  to  play  should  be  selected  by  ourselves.  We  had  our  free  agency 
to  act  whatever  part  we  would  in  the  unfolding  of  this  great  drama. 
But  before  this  could  take  place  our  eyes  had  to  be  opened;  we  had  to 
receive  the  light,  even  the  light  of  Christ,  that  enabled  us  to  know  good 
from  evil,  as  we  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  Chapter  7  of  the  Book 
of  Moroni  and  in  the  16th  paragraph,  where  it  says : 

For  behold,  the  Spirit  of  Christ  is  given  to  every  man,  that  he 
may  know  good  from  evil. 

That  having  been  given  to  us,  we  were  under  obligation  to  walk  in 
the  light.  Simultaneously  with  that  experience  came  also  the  opposition 
which  needs  to  be  set  up  in  order  that  we  might  be  tried.  How  could 
we  be  tried  unless  there  was  opposition  ?  So  Satan  came  also  with  his 
vile  temptations,  endeavoring  to  lead  men  and  women  away  from  God. 
Therein  lies  the  whole  purpose  of  human  life  and  experience  as  it  has 
to  do  with  our  lives,  and  every  one  of  us  must  act  our  own  part  upon 
this  stage. 

There  are  many  acts  that  have  been  provided.  Each  one  may  be 
designated  as  a  dispensation  of  God's  providence  among  the  children  of 
men.  They  have  been  accompanied  by  an  outpouring,  a  dispensation 
of  God's  goodness  to  his  children  in  the  effort  to  bring  us  back  to  him. 
The  great  hero,  the  great  leader,  the  great  captain  of  all  these  various 
dispensations  is  and  always  has  been  the  first  born  of  all  the  children  of 
God,  and  the  only-begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  namely,  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  In  the  meridian  of  time  in  which  his  great  act 
of  atonement  for  the  sins  of  the  world  was  enacted  he  dwelt  amongst 
mankind  in  mortal  body  as  the  son  of  Mary — the  very  Son  of  the  living 
God. 

He  has  raised  up  mighty  prophets  to  usher  in  these  various  dispensa- 
tions. They  have  each  one  had  their  important  part  to  play,  and  the 
world  has  been  benefited  by  them.  They  have  left  behind  them  a 
record  of  their  doings,  of  the  principles  that  they  have  taught,  of  the 
truths  that  have  been  revealed  from  heaven  through  the  instrumentality 
of  the  prophets  of  God  and  the  instrumentality  of  our  Lord  and  Savior, 
Jesus  Christ. 

How  grateful,  then,  we  ought  to  be  that  the  Lord  has  not  left  us  in 
darkness.  He  has  enlightened  our  minds  through  the  Spirit  of  Christ. 
He  has  given  us  our  free  agency,  and  whether  or  not  we  shall  play  our 
part  well  depends  entirely  upon  us  as  individuals,  and  no  one  can  escape 
from  performing  his  own  part. 

So  we  are  all  on  the  stage,  and  will  be  required  to  answer  the  call 
when  the  cue  is  given,  and  we  must  perform  our  part  according  to  the 
light  that  we  have,  if  we  would  obtain  the  benefits  that  God  has  promised 
if  we  do  all  things  whatsoever  he  hath  commanded  us. 

The  trouble  with  mankind,  the  greatest  difficulty  to  be  overcome  is, 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


59 


I  think,  indifference  on  the  part  of  mankind  to  learn  what  is  the  will  of 
God,  what  is  the  underlying  purpose  of  this  great  drama. .  It  is  a  wonder- 
ful drama.  It  is  full  of  dramatic  incident.  It  is  full  of  romance.  There 
is  much  of  comedy,  but  it  is  also  a  great  tragedy  in  which  the  whole 
world  is  involved. 

We  have  been  favored  in  being  permitted  to  live  in  the  closing  act  of 
that  great  drama,  ushered  in  by  that  great  latter-day  prophet,  Joseph 
Smith.  It  is  the  final  act  upon  this  earth,  warning  mankind  of  the 
promises  made  of  old  to  the  prophets  that  have  been  before,  the  promises 
that  have  been  made  to  the  patriarchs,  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob,  the 
promises  that  have  been  made  through  all  the  ages,  the  different  dispen- 
sations of  God's  providence  to  us.  The  climax  of  this  last  act  will  be 
the  second  advent  of  our  Lord  when  he  comes  to  reign  upon  the  earth 
for  a  thousand  years — when  he  shall  appear  in  the  clouds  of  glory  usher- 
ing in  the  great  millennial  reign  of  peace. 

Are  we  acting  our  parts  well  ?  The  Lord  is  proving  us,  and  to  what 
end?  That  we  might  inherit  eternal  life,  for  we  are  living  in  this  last 
dispensation,  and  shortly  the  curtain  will  fall  and  what  then  ?  What  shall 
become  of  us?  Where  shall  we  be?  Some  will  be  exalted  into  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God.  Some  will  be  in  the  terrestrial  kingdom ; 
others  in  the  telestial  kingdom.  A  few,  I  hope  very  few,  shall  fail 
utterly  and  be  numbered  among  the  sons  of  perdition. 

Our  ambition  is  that  we  may  do  all  things  whatsoever  the  Lord  our 
God  shall  call  upon  us  to  do,  and  if  we  do  we  shall  inherit  eternal  life  in 
the  presence  of  God.  Celestial  glory  shall  be  added  unto  us  forever  and 
forever.  And  then  our  "Confidence  shall  wax  strong  in  the  presence 
of  God,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood  [which  is  the  power  of  God] 
shall  distil  upon  our  souls  as  the  dews  from  heaven."  The  Holy  Ghost 
shall  be  our  constant  companion,  and  our  scepter  an  unchanging  scepter 
of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  our  dominion  shall  be  an  everlasting 
dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  us  forever 
and  ever. 

These  are  the  promises  of  the  Almighty,  but  they  require  us  to  do 
our  part.  In  the  first  act  of  this  great  drama  our  eyes  were  opened. 
We  received  the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  Have  we  chosen  the 
good  and  rejected  the  evil?  Have  we  loved  darkness  more  than  light? 
We  have  had  the  opportunity  to  choose — every  man.  Blessed  are  we 
if  we  have  chosen  the  better  part.  One  distinguishing  feature  of  this 
drama  is  that  every  man  can  act  in  it  according  to  his  own  will.  He 
can  make  of  himself  a  hero  or  a  villain  of  the  deepest  die.  He  can  make 
of  himself  a  valiant  servant  of  the  Lord,  a  worthy  child  of  God.  No 
matter  what  positions  or  roles  he  may  be  called  upon  to  enact,  even 
the  least  of  us  can  attain  to  the  highest  degree  if  he  acts  his  part  well. 

Then  ought  we  not  to  appreciate  the  great  value  of  this  Gospel, 
and  the  great  value  of  the  revelations,  the  dispensations  of  God's 
providence  to  us,  wherein  the  truth  has  been  made  known  to  us?  But 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


alas !  the  indifference  of  mankind  toward  the  truth — they  don't  seek  to 
know  what  that  truth  is.  The  Lord  wants  us  to  know  the  truth.  He 
said :  "Search  the  scriptures ;  for  in  them  ye  think  ye  have  eternal  life ; 
and  they  are  they  which  testify  of  me,"  and  of  course  of  his  work. 

Oh,  how  we  ought  to  love  the  truth  and  seek  to  know  it.  It  should 
be  the  ambition  of  every  man.    We  sing  about  it: 

O  say  what  is  truth,  'tis  the  brightest  prize 

To  which  mortals  or  gods  can  aspire ; 
Go  search  in  the  depths  where  it  glittering  lies, 

Or  ascend  in  pursuit  to  the  loftiest  skies; 
"Tis  an  aim  for  the  noblest  desire. 

Let  us  desire  the  truth,  then. 

Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe,  in  his  little  choice  book,  "In  Search  of  Truth," 
makes  this  comment: 

Every  man  may  find  the  way  to  truth,  if  he  only  desires  it,  but  he 
must  desire  it  with  all  his  might,  mind  and  strength. 

Let  us  then  seek  to  know  the  truth,  and  it  will  make  us  free.  Let 
us  search  the  scriptures,  the  volume  of  God's  dealings  with  mankind; 
his  revelations  to  this  generation,  found  in  this  precious  little  book  here, 
known  as  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  The  preface  to  that 
book,  which  wasn't  the  first  of  the  revelations,  by  any  means,  now  oc- 
cupies the  place  as  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  In 
conclusion  let  me  quote  the  closing  paragraphs  of  that  wonderful  pre- 
face to  this  book  of  revelations: 

Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  net  myself ; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice 
of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same. 

For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record,  and 
the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever.  Amen. 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  DOUGLAS 

Former  President  of  the  British  Mission 

How  shall  I  sing  thy  beauty,  pow'r  and  light, 

O  glorious  kingdom  of  the  latter  days ! 
I  see  thy  loveliness,  I  feel  thy  might, 

But  fail  in  utterance  to  speak  thy  praise! 

I  search  in  vain  the  records  of  the  past, 

Which  paint  dead  kingdoms  in  their  short-lived  pride, 
They  cannot  picture  thee,  whose  pow'r  shall  last 

While  heav'n  and  truth  and  Deity  abide. 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  DOUGLAS 


61 


And  shall  the  little  "powers  that  be"  today, 

Be  likened  for  a  moment  to  thy  majesty? 
As  well  declare  pale  Vesta's  twinkling  ray 

Unfolds  the  splendor  of  eternity. 

In  hist'ry  only  Egypt's  greatness  lives — 

Lost  are  its  treasures,  all  its  wisdom  hid, 
Except  the  scraps  the  crumbling  mummy  gives, 

The  sculptured  sphinx  and  tow'ring  pyramid. 

Where  are  the  palaces  of  Babylon, 

The  "hanging  gardens"  and  the  golden  tow'rs? 

With  the  Chaldeans'  starlight  wisdom  gone, 
Walls,  gates  and  glory,  images  and  flow'rs ! 

And  thou,  O  Rome !  proud  mistress  of  the  world ! 

Thine  armoured  legions  spread  no  terror  now. 
They  bring  no  blood-bought  spoils  of  gems  impearled, 

To  deck  thy  bosom  and  thy  haughty  brow. 

O !  all  ye  living  governments  and  states ! 

Gaze  on  the  relics  of  far  mightier  powers ! 
The  hand  that  shattered  them,  uplifted  waits 

The  bell  that  ends  your  few  remaining  hours! 

In  the  high  chambers  of  the  West,  I  see 

An  infant  kingdom  struggling  to  the  birth. 
And  the  prophetic  spirit  says  to  me, 

"In  manhood  this  shall  govern  all  the  earth." 

(The  words  I  have  quoted  are  from  the  inspired  poem  "The  Latter- 
Day  Kingdom,"  by  the  late  President  Charles  W.  Penrose.) 

The  sight  that  I  behold  today,  as  I  stand  before  you,  cannot  be  seen 
in  any  other  part  of  the  world  that  I  have  ever  visited, — and  I  have 
visited  many  countries  and  seen  large  congregations ;  but  I  have  never 
seen  a  picture  just  like  this,  and  I  tremble  as  I  come  before  you  today 
to  report  briefly  my  mission  as  president  of  the  British  Mission. 

The  British  Mission  is  the  oldest  foreign  mission  of  the  Church. 
Away  back  in  1837  our  first  missionaries  were  sent  to  England,  now 
ninety-eight  years  ago.  Since  that  time,  if  I  am  correctly  informed, 
125,000  persons  have  been  baptized  of  the  British  people,  and  as  I  under- 
stand it,  at  least  100,000  have  immigrated  to  this  country.  Some  have 
died.  Some  have  remained  there,  and  are  still  there  anxious  to  come 
to  this  glorious  land  of  Zion. 

England  has  been  a  fruitful  country.  It  is  a  marvelous  country, 
beautiful  beyond  my  description,  with  flowering  hedges,  trickling  streams, 
shaded  lanes  and  ever-green  pastures.  In  that  little  area  of  fifty-one 
thousand  square  miles  there  are  thirty-eight  millions  of  people.  In 
England,  Ireland,  Scotland  and  Wales,  the  Channel  Islands  and  the 
Isle  of  Man,  there  are  forty-nine  millions  of  people.  There  is  an  area  of 
one  hundred  twenty  thousand  square  miles  in  these  four  little  countries 
and  small  islands,  about  three-fourths  the  area  of  California,  and  yet 
they  have  a  population  almost  double  the  population  of  the  United  States 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


west  of  the  Missouri  River.  It  is  marvelous  to  think  that  so  many 
people  can  live  in  such  a  small  space.  England  alone  has  fifty-one  thou- 
sand square  miles,  and  Utah  has  eighty-five  thousand.  A  little  country 
five-eighths  the  size  of  our  state  has  thirty-eight  millions  of  people,  and 
we  have  only  five  hundred  thousand.  London  alone  has  sixteen  times  as 
many  people  in  it  as  there  are  in  the  entire  State  of  Utah. 

While  we  have  had  hundreds  of  missionaries  in  Great  Britain  in  the 
last  ninety-eight  years,  I  doubt  whether  we  shall  not  have  to  labor  there, 
(using  the  present  method  of  proselyting)  hundreds  of  years  to  come, 
before  our  message  can  reach  the  great  multitude  of  people  who  live 
there. 

We  learned  to  love  the  people  very  dearly.  When  we  went 
there  President  Widtsoe  said:  "These  people  need  your  love."  We 
extended  that  love  to  them.  They  gathered  about  us  wherever  we  as- 
sembled, in  our  district  conferences,  and  we  extended  the  hand  of 
fellowship  and  love  to  them,  and  as  far  as  I  know  we  did  not  make  a 
solitary  enemy. 

We  attended  ninety-three  district  conferences,  and  traveled  up  and 
down  England,  Ireland,  Scotland  and  Wales,  ninety-three  times.  During 
the  period  we  were  there  we  crossed  the  usually  rough  Irish  Channel 
twenty-one  times  and  were  never  sick  once.  My  wife  accompanied  me 
on  every  trip  and  was  very  helpful,  as  60%  of  our  membership  are 
women.  We  did  not  miss  a  solitary  appointment.  Every  appointment 
that  we  made,  we  filled.  And  not  a  Sunday  evening  passed,  as  I  remem- 
ber it,  during  the  three  years  we  were  there,  that  we  missed  speaking  to 
some  congregation,  small  or  large,  somewhere,  explaining  to  them  the 
beauties  of  the  everlasting  Gospel  as  revealed  in  these  latter  days. 

There  are  sixteen  districts  in  Great  Britain  and  seventy-seven 
branches,  eighty-five  percent  of  the  branches  being  presided  over  by 
local  people.  Let  us  hope  that  in  the  near  future  they  will  all  be  presided 
over  by  local  members.  We  began  selecting  and  setting  apart  local  people 
to  preside  over  the  districts,  and  I  think  since  our  departure  and  Presi- 
dent Cannon's  arrival  there  the  districts  are  now  nearly  all  presided  over 
by  local  people.  We  desired  to  place  the  responsibility  of  caring  for  the 
people  upon  the  local  saints.  There  is  an  enrolled  membership  of  the 
Church  in  Great  Britain  of  7,117  persons.  I  doubt  very  much  whether 
they  could  all  be  found.  It  would  be  like  hunting  for  a  needle  in  a  hay- 
stack to  try  to  find  a  member  of  the  Church  in  London,  if  he  were  not  in- 
clined to  find  us. 

In  my  judgment,  a  building  program  in  Great  Britain  would  im- 
prove conditions  very  greatly.  We  have  only  thirteen  small  chapels 
there  now,  and  seventy-seven  branches,  most  of  which  need  a  better 
place  in  which  to  meet  than  they  have.  We  need  building  accommoda- 
tions for  our  auxiliary  work,  and  some  day,  I  am  sure,  if  we  progress  as 
we  should,  and  reach  the  hearts  of  that  great  multitude  with  our  message, 
we  should  have  suitable  chapels  in  which  to  worship.  President  Grant 
and  President  McKay  and  others  who  have  presided  there  know  our 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  DOUGLAS 


63 


needs,  but  we  cannot  get  them  all  at  once.  The  saints  there  are  mostly 
working  people  and  cannot  pay  for  them  fifty  percent.  Some  day  per- 
haps we  shall  be  well  enough  off  to  extend  the  needed  help —  I  hope 
so,  because  investigators,  unless  their  hearts  are  touched  by  something 
unusual,  will  not  worship  in  those  places  where  some  of  our  splendid, 
faithful  saints  now  have  to  worship. 

If  I  were  to  ask  this  congregation  today  to  hold  up  their  hands, 
those  who  came  from  England,  or  from  the  British  Isles,  or  who  are 
the  descendants  of  those  who  have  come  from  Great  Britain,  thousands 
of  hands,  I  think,  would  go  up. 

In  Ireland  we  are  doing  some  good  work.  In  Dublin  we  have  a 
branch  of  about  sixty  members,  nearly  all  descendants  of  German  people. 
It  is  the  only  wealthy  congregation  we  have.  They  are  all  well-to-do.  I  am 
sure  Brother  Callis  will  be  glad  to  know  this.  I  have  thought  sometimes 
that  with  his  life-long  experience  and  great  fund  of  knowledge  he  could 
accomplish  a  marvelous  work  in  Ireland.  In  Dublin  there  are  398,000 
people.  97%  of  them  belong  to  the  Catholic  Church.  I  am  told  they 
have  70,000  Catholic  priests  and  nuns  laboring  in  that  vicinity,  so  you 
see  what  a  big  job  we  have  if  we  convert  the  Irish  people. 

In  Northern  Ireland  we  have  a  fine  congregation,  mostly  Irish 
people.  That  is  a  Protestant  section.  But  the  southern  section  is  mostly 
Catholic.    We  also  have  several  active  branches  in  Scotland  and  Wales. 

President  George  Q.  Cannon,  President  John  Taylor,  President 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  President  Charles  W.  Nibley,  Apostle  James  E. 
Talmage,  President  B.  H.  Roberts,  all  came  from  the  British  Isles.  That 
country  has  given  the  Church  many  outstanding  people,  and  I  feel  that 
I  can  safely  predict  that  there  is  yet  a  great  and  wonderful  work  to  be 
done  over  there. 

My  wife  and  I  were  blessed  with  remarkable  health.  We  clung 
closely  to  the  promised  blessings  that  were  given  us  when  we  were  set 
apart,  that  we  would  go  in  peace,  return  in  safety,  and  have  perfect  health 
while  we  were  away.  We  didn't  have  to  lie  in  bed  one  day  because  of 
sickness.  We  were  marvelously  blessed.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that 
I  am  getting  along  in  years,  pretty  close  to  our  President  now,  in  my 
seventy-eighth  year,  the  Lord  has  blessed  me  so  that  my  voice  has  been 
strong  and  I  have  been  able  to  speak  two  or  three  times  at  every  district 
conference. 

We  have  sixty-two  Relief  Societies  there  and  sixty-nine  Sunday 
Schools — President  McKay  and  Brother  Pyper  will- be  glad  to  know  this, 
We  have  fifty-nine  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associations, 
sixty-eight  Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Associations;  and 
fifty-four  Primaries.  The  officials  in  charge  of  these  departments  will 
be  pleased  to  know  this,  I  am  sure.  We  have  made  a  special  effort  in 
Primary  work  during  the  past  year  and  a  half.  We  also  have  forty- 
three  genealogical  organizations. 

We  now  have  a  cabinet  in  the  British  Mission  office  containing  forty- 
four  thousand  cards,  where  records  are  made  of  genealogical  work.  I 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


predict  that  genealogical  work  there  will  advance  faster  and  more  cor- 
rectly than  it  has  in  the  past. 

As  I  said  before — I  again  repeat,  after  ninety-eight  years  of  prose- 
lyting we  have  only  thirteen  churches.  We  need  at  least  fifty  more  with 
suitable  accommodations  for  auxiliary  work.  If  this  work  progresses  as 
it  should  we  must  have  better  places  in  which  to  worship. 

During  the  three  years  we  were  there,  there  were  three  hundred 
young  men  missionaries,  and  four  young  women,  from  the  inter- 
mountain  country,  occasionally  one  from  California,  some  from  Arizona, 
and  some  from  other  parts  of  the  United  States.  These  young  people 
were  energetic,  dutiful,  faithful  and  exemplary — ever  willing  to  do  their 
duty.  We  loved  them  dearly  and  I  convey  this  message  to  their  fathers 
and  mothers  that  they  were  wonderful  examples  to  the  British  people. 
They  loved  their  work  and  made  impressions  for  good  wherever  they 
went. 

While  we  were  there  we  had  with  us  Patriarch  James  H.  Wallis 
and  his  dear  wife.  They  were  a  great  asset  to  the  Mission.  Brother 
Wallis  had  the  spirit  of  his  calling  as  a  patriarch,  giving  about  one 
thousand  three  hundred  blessings.  Many  of  these  were  given  while  we 
were  there,  some  prior  to  our  going.  He  also  acted  as  associate  editor  of 
the  Millennial  Star,  and  was  of  great  assistance  to  me  in  my  missionary 
labors. 

My  wife's  work  among  the  sisters  was  marvelous.  Her  refined 
personality  was  an  inspiration  to  me  and  to  all  those  with  whom  we 
came  in  contact. 

Some  of  the  principal  achievements  of  the  mission  during  my 
Presidency  are: 

The  establishing  of  mission  headquarters  in  London — a  great  for- 
ward movement. 

The  granting  of  the  privilege  to  perform  marriage  ceremonies  in 
our  Church  owned  chapels. 

The  organization  of  mission-wide  boards  of  all  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions. 

Placing  the  book  shop  on  a  cash  basis — greatly  saving  time  and 
reducing  losses. 

Gaining  the  good  will  of  the  Press  and  receiving  favorable  news- 
paper reports  of  our  conferences  and  mission  work. 

Securing  the  privilege  of  organizing  Scout  troops  in  various  sections 
of  Great  Britain. 

BUILDING  PROGRAM 

Through  the  generosity  of  the  saints  in  the  Hull  district  and  the 
co-operation  of  the  First  Presidency  we  were  able  to  build  a  nice  little 
chapel  in  Hull.  And  also  purchased  a  beautiful  chapel  in  Burnley,  and 
remodeled  the  chapels  in  Oldham  and  Manchester.  We  erected  an  amuse- 
ment hall  joining  the  chapel  in  Norwich  and  greatly  improved  the  ac- 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  DOUGLAS 


65 


commodations  for  Church  service  in  London  and  various  other  districts 
throughout  the  Mission. 

Nearly  600  baptisms  were  performed  during  our  mission  period. 

With  prejudice  abating  and  favorable  newspaper  comments,  people 
are  getting  a  better  understanding  of  our  aims  and  objects,  and  we  are 
getting  the  attention  of  many  who  formerly  had  a  very  vague,  unintelli- 
gent impression  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

As  I  close  I  want  to  express  our  sincere  appreciation  to  the  First 
Presidency  and  to  all  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  for  their 
confidence  in  us.  We  were  certainly  God-blessed  in  every  way  while  we 
were  away,  in  health  and  strength  and  spirit. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  all,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  our  Lord 
and  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Charity,"  (Rossini)  was  sung  by  the  Relief  Society 
Singing  Mothers,  soprano  solo  by  Mrs.  Margaret  S.  Hewlett. 

Elder  Scott  B.  Brown,  President  of  the  Boise  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Saturday,  October  5. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  rendered  by  the  German  Latter- 
day  Saints  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Otto  Michaelis. 

As  an  opening  number  the  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "The  morning 
breaks,  the  shadows  flee." 

Elder  H.  Edward  Sutton,  President  of  the  Oquirrh  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Jesus  giveth  a  blind  man  sight. 

A  MIRACLE  OF  HEALING 

And  he  cometh  to  Bethsaida;  and  they  bring  a  blind  man  unto  him, 
and  besought  him  to  touch  him. 

And  he  took  the  blind  man  by  the  hand,  and  led  him  out  of  the  town ; 
and  when  he  had  spit  on  his  eyes,  and  put  his  hands  upon  him,  he  asked 
him  if  he  saw  ought 

And  he  looked  up,  and  said,  I  see  men  as  trees,  walking. 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


After  that  he  put  his  hands  again  upon  his  eyes,  and  made  him  look 
up ;  and  he  was  restored,  and  saw  every  man  clearly. 

He  took  the  blind  man  by  the  hand,  and  led  him  out  of  town.  Great 
humility  and  condescension !  What  a  lesson  to  the  overseers  of  the  flock 
of  Christ,  to  take  men  by  the  hand  and  lead  them  out  of  the  corruption 
of  the  world ! 

Come  along,  come  along,  is  the  call  that  will  win, 

To  lead  us  to  virtue  and  keep  us  from  sin ; 
Most  men  can  be  led,  but  few  can  be  driven, 

In  shunning  perdition  and  striving  for  heaven. 

This  is  the  only  recorded  example  of  a  progressive  cure — a  progres- 
sive miracle.  All  the  others  wrought  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  were 
instantaneous.  There  must  be  a  lesson  in  this.  Is  it  not  reasonable  to 
believe  that  this  miracle  is  intended  to  exemplify  in  the  lives  of  men  the 
gradual  progress  of  spiritual  vision  ?  Certainly  it  illustrates  the  methods 
employed  in  the  spiritual  kingdom. 

Professor  Agassiz,  the  great  scientist,  said  every  scientific  truth 
passes  through  three  stages :  First,  men  say  it  is  not  true.  Then,  they 
declare  it  is  hostile  to  religion.  Finally,  they  say  that  everyone  has 
always  known  it. 

Mormonism  is  entering  the  third  stage.  I  believe  that  it  is  in  some 
ways  the  most  dangerous  stage  of  our  progress.  I  think  it  was  Emerson 
who  said  that  blame  is  safer  than  praise. 

A  MIGHTY  NATION 

There  is  a  wonderful  promise  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  respecting 
the  great  republic  in  which  we  live.  We  are  told  in  that  sacred  volume 
of  scripture  that  the  Almighty  would  raise  up  a  mighty  nation  among 
the  Gentiles,  and  that  the  Gentiles  would  nourish  the  people  of  God, 
likened  unto  carrying  them  in  their  arms  and  on  their  shoulders.  We 
are  living  in  that  mighty  republic.  I  hope  and  pray  that  America,  the 
United  States,  will  be  kept  out  of  that  inferno  (the  Ethiopian-Italian 
War)  in  Europe.  I  humbly  pray  that  not  one  drop  of  American  blood 
shall  be  shed  on  foreign  shores  in  a  foreign  war.  Let  the  United  States 
keep  out  of  it. 

I  think  the  people  of  this  land  are  fulfilling  a  wonderful  mission — I 
mean  the  non-Mormons, — a  God-given  mission.  He  has  given  them 
a  heaven-inspired  Constitution,  and  if  we  will  stick  close  to  that  bulwark 
of  liberty  the  sun  of  freedom  shall  never  set  on  the  people  of  this 
favored  land. 

THE  GOSP.EL  LEAVEN 

It  is  remarkable  how  the  Gospel  is  appealing  to  people.  The  leaven 
of  the  Gospel  is  leavening  the  whole  lump.    It  is  in  the  hearts  of  men, 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


67 


secretly  urging  them  and  working  with  them  to  come  to  the  obedience 
of  the  faith. 

Some  time  ago  Frank  A.  Munsey,  the  great  American  author  and 
publisher,  had  a  book  prepared  containing  the  genealogy  of  the  families 
of  his  father  and  mother.  It  cost  him,  so  I  was  credibly  informed,  the 
sum  of  $75,000.    In  his  introduction  he  says: 

The  absence  of  trustworthy  family  records  all  the  way  down  from  the 
time  of  the  Pilgrim  settlers  was  so  well  nigh  universal  throughout  New 
England,  that  it  would  almost  seem  that  all  interest  in  ancestry  was  re- 
garded as  a  kind  of  snobbishness  unbecoming  in  the  hard-working,  God- 
fearing American — unbecoming,  unmanly,  or  even  sinful.  *  *  *  One  of 
my  mother's  unsatisfied  desires  was  to  know, — actually  to  know — whether 
the  old  Hopkins  family  tradition  was  really  true.  Her  faith  *  *  *  told 
her  that  it  was  true.  I  know  with  deep  appreciation  what  those  dreams 
and  aspirations  must  have  been,  for  I  am  her  son.  *  *  *  One  of  these 
services,  with  me,  was  to  do  for  my  mother  what  she  would  have  liked 
to  do  for  herself  with  respect  to  the  Mayflower  ancestry  of  her  family. 
*  *  *  I  had  no  other  purpose  in  the  undertaking. 

One  doctrine  of  the  Gospel,  a  glorious  doctrine,  is  the  doctrine  of 
salvation  for  the  dead.  It  seems  that  this  is  captivating  the  hearts  of 
men  and  they  are  rallying  to  it  and  helping  the  people  of  God  to  gather 
genealogy. 

In  the  time  of  which  Frank  A.  Munsey  wrote  there  were  few  if 
any  large  genealogical  libraries  or  institutions,  but  now  the  College  of 
Heralds  in  London,  the  great  collection  of  genealogies  in  the  Library 
of  Congress  and  the  files  of  the  Daughters  of  the  American  Revolution, 
contain  invaluable  data  respecting  the  genealogical  status  of  multitudes. 
It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  a  remarkable  contribution  to  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  Are  not  the  Gentiles,  God  bless  them,  nourishing  and  carry- 
ing in  their  arms  and  on  their  shoulders  the  chosen  people  of  God? 
And  when  I  say  the  chosen  people  of  God,  I  mean  those  who  show  us  by 
their  works  that  they  are  worthy  of  the  name  of  Christ. 

With  every  American  I  sincerely  deplore  the  fight  that  is  made  on 
any  race  or  creed.  We  cannot  afford  to  join  in  such  a  crusade.  It  is 
unmanly;  it  is  un-American. 

a  minister's  opinion 

Some  time  ago  a  minister  who  delivers  nation-wide  broadcast  ser- 
mons weekly  was  asked  this  question  :  What,  in  your  opinion,  becomes  of 
those  souls  who  in  this  life  had  no  opportunity  of  accepting  or  rejecting 
the  truth  as  it  is  found  in  the  Gospels  ?  The  minister  replied : 

Those  who  never  heard  the  name  of  Jesus,  since  human  beings  first 
appeared  on  the  earth,  constitute  the  vast  majority  who  have  lived  and 
died  here.  Moreover,  hundreds  of  millions  now  living  are  in  the  same 
condition.    Imagination  cannot  conceive  their  endless  array. 

Even  today  multitudes  exist  in  Christian  lands  who,  because  of  the 
circumstances  of  their  birth  and  upbringing,  are  almost  as  ignorant  of 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  New  Testament  faith  as  were  the  ancient  Greeks  who  never  heard  of 
Christ.  Think  also  of  the  hosts  of  innocent  children  who  pass  on  before 
arriving  at  conscious  responsibility  for  their  own  lives. 

Even  when  dimly  understood  your  question  would  be  unbearably 
oppressive  if  none  except  those  who  have  intelligently  and  voluntarily  be- 
lieved in  Christ  are  hereafter  admitted  to  the  Divine  Presence.  If,  as  we 
are  taught  to  believe,  the  incalculable  myriads  of  human  beings  who  have 
occupied,  or  now  occupy  this  life,  exist  for  eternity,  and  must  spend  it 
somewhere,  how  can  we  limit  the  redemptive  efficacy  of  divine  love  to  the 
brief  span  of  man's  mortal  existence  here? 

SPIRIT  OF  ELIJAH  AT  WORK 

Isn't  this  a  remarkable  work  that  brothers  and  sisters  not  of  our 
faith  are  doing?  I  believe  we  talk  too  much  about  indifference.  True, 
it  exists,  but  what  I  have  read  proves  that  many  people  are  not  indifferent 
to  the  work  of  God,  but  there  is  an  urge,  an  inner  urge  which  tells  them 
some  power  not  of  man  is  with  this  Church. 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah,  the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord : 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the 
heart  of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth  with 
a  curse. 

I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  all  flesh. 

These  things  I  have  read  are  beautiful,  but  there  is  one  thing  lacking. 
These  good  men  who  are  gathering  genealogy,  and  who  are  inspired  by 
the  spirit  of  Elijah,  do  not  belong  to  churches  that  have  the  power  to 
give  expression  to  their  noble  thoughts.  Godliness  cannot  be  expressed 
only  through  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  of  God  and  the  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel.  More  and  more  it  becomes  evident  that  Joseph  Smith, 
the  prophet  of  God,  spoke  the  feelings  of  men  and  women  who  were 
longing  to  express  themselves  with  respect  to  this  glorious  doctrine. 

PROPHECY  BY  ORSON  PRATT 

Another  thing  that  the  Gentiles  are  doing.  Listen  to  this  prophecy 
by  Orson  Pratt.    In  the  course  of  a  sermon  he  made  this  statement : 

There  must  be  something  connected  with  the  sounding  of  this  trump 
that  is  miraculous  in  order  that  all  nations  may  hear  it.  Any  sound  that 
can  be  produced  by  mortal  man  does  not  reach,  generally  speaking,  over 
about  thirty  miles  from  where  it  originates,  which  is  a  very  small  space 
indeed.  But  there  will  be  something  connected  with  the  sounding  of  the 
trump  of  the  first  of  the  seven  angels  which  will  manifest  a  power  which 
we  know  nothing  of.  The  sound  of  that  trump  will  be  heard  by  all 
people,  nations,  kindreds  and  tongues  in  the  four  corners  of  the  globe.  I 
do  not  know  that  the  sound  will  be  so  much  louder  than  some  we  have 
heard,  but  it  will  be  carried  by  some  miraculous  power  so  that  all  people 
will  hear  it. 

I  am  quoting  from  the  Millennial  Star : 

These  words  were  uttered  sixty-two  years  ago.  They  were  uttered 
three  years  before  the  Edinburgh-born  genius,  Alexander  Graham  Bell, 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


69 


had  even  exhibited  the  invention  which  was  to  develop  into  the  telephone, 
and  twenty-three  years  before  Marchese  Marconi  patented  the  first  simple 
wireless  apparatus.  Who  would  have  thought  in  those  days,  when  the 
voice  was  untouched  by  science  and  invention,  that  in  years  to  come  mil- 
lions would  hear  simultaneously  a  sound  "No  louder  than  some  that  had 
been  heard"? 

Through  the  facilities  of  this  same  invention  that  was  foretold  by 
Orson  Pratt,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  recently  proclaimed  the  Gospel 
message  in  a  sermon  that  sounded  around  the  world  and  was  received  by 
the  ears  of  millions  of  people.  He  was  speaking  over  a  chain  of  sixty- 
eight  leading  broadcasting  stations  of  the  Columbia  network  in  the 
United  States  and  Canada. 

Only  a  few  weeks  earlier  President  Grant  delivered  a  sermon  on  an 
"Around  the  World"  program  of  Station  K.  S.  L.  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
Letters  describing  perfect  reception  in  far-off  Japan  were  received  by 
station  officials. 

Isn't  this  another  example  that  the  mission  God  Almighty  gave  to 
the  Gentiles  is  being  splendidly  fulfilled?  God  is  touching  their  spiritual 
vision.  They  may  not  be  converted — they  may  not  be  spiritually  healed 
by  one  sermon  or  a  dozen  sermons,  but  sooner  or  later  the  word  of  God 
shall  reach  their  hearts,  their  spiritual  vision  shall  be  touched,  and  they 
shall  see  Mormonism  clearly, — not  as  they  did  see  it,  "men  as  trees, 
walking." 

SEEING  WITH  SPIRITUAL  EYES 

At  the  time  when  Syrian  soldiers  surrounded  Dothan  to  take  captive 
Elisha,  the  prophet,  his  servant,  paralyzed  with  fear  said  unto  him : 

Alas,  my  master!  how  shall  we  do? 

And  he  answered,  fear  not;  for  they  that  be  with  us  are  more  than 
they  that  be  with  them. 

And  Elisha  prayed,  and  said,  Lord,  I  pray  thee,  open  his  eyes  that 
he  may  see.  And  the  Lord  opened  the  eyes  of  the  young  man;  and  he 
saw;  and,  behold,  the  mountain  was  full  of  horses  and  chariots  of  fire 
round  about  Elisha. — (2  Kings,  6:15-17.) 

The  eyes  which  Elisha  prayed  should  be  opened  were  those  of  the 
spirit,  not  of  the  body. 

More  than  twenty-four  centuries  later,  William  Tyndale,  the  Eng- 
lish reformer,  translator  of  the  Bible,  and  a  martyr,  was  strangled  and 
his  body  burned  at  the  stake.  Midst  flame  and  smoke  he  gasped  forth 
this  dying  prayer:  "Lord,  open  the  king  of  England's  eyes."  God's 
answer  to  that  pathetic  supplication  was  King  James'  translation  of  the 
Bible,  as  it  is  popularly  called. 

Joseph  Smith,  prophet,  seer,  revelator,  translator  of  the  scriptures, 
and  martyr,  by  his  death  proved  his  words  to  be  true.  He  proved  the 
divine  authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Oh  God,  open  the  eyes,  the  spiritual  eyes  of  the  world,  of  all  men 
and  women,  that  they  may  come  into  the  spiritual  Canaan  flowing  with 
thy  word  and  filled  with  truth  and  joy  and  salvation,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CLARENCE  H.  TINGEY 

Former  President  of  the  Australian  Mission 

During  the  past  two  and  one-half  months  since  we  have  returned 
from  the  Australian  Mission,  I  have  looked  forward  to  the  assembly  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  they  were  to  convene  in  this  semi-annual  con- 
ference, believing  that  possibly  President  Grant  would  expect  me  to 
make  some  report  of  our  activities  in  the  Australian  Mission.  I  cannot 
say  that  I  feel  comfortable,  altogether,  and  yet  I  consider  it  a  distinct 
honor  to  face  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  afternoon.  I  feel  that 
the  responsibility  is  particularly  heavy,  after  listening  to  such  an  able 
discourse  by  President  Callis.  I  have  been  thrilled  and  heartily  say 
Amen  to  all  that  he  has  said  in  these  few  moments. 

I  am  very  happy  to  report  conditions  in  the  Australian  Mission  are 
very  favorable.  We  have  had  some  obstacles  to  overcome.  Our  appoint- 
ment first  came  in  1928.  We  had  the  opportunity  of  laboring  in  that 
field  for  three  years,  were  then  released  and  returned  home.  A  few 
months  later  President  Grant  asked  if  we  would  return  for  a  second 
visit.  We  accepted  the  honor,  and  have  had  three  and  a  half  years  more 
among  those  delightful  people. 

During  the  first  three  years  we  faced  the  task  of  encouraging, 
building  up  and  strengthening  our  people  during  the  years  of  depression. 
During  the  years  of  1929,  1930  and  1931  the  Australian  people  met 
their  most  severe  hardships.  Some  of  our  saints  became  discouraged, 
of  course.  We  spent  much  of  our  time  attempting  to  point  their  at- 
tention to  the  future,  that  they  might  see  something  better  beyond  the 
horizon. 

During  our  second  visit  we  were  under  the  necessity  of  meeting  a 
depression  in  missionaries,  and  were  compelled  to  fight  through  with  a 
very  materially  reduced  missionary  force.  But  I  am  very  grateful  to 
report  here  now  that  through  all  of  this  the  Lord  has  sustained  and  up- 
held the  work  in  that  land  in  a  most  remarkable  way.  The  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  under  the  guidance  of  the  priesthood,  is  permeating  the  hearts 
of  the  people  of  Australia.  Our  saints,  I  feel,  are  more  spiritual  minded 
than  they  have  ever  been  before.  Their  friends  are  more  sincere  than 
they  have  been  previously,  and  men  and  women  of  all  types  are  giving 
more  earnest  consideration  to  the  presence  of  the  Mormon  missionaries  in  - 
their  cities  and  communities. 

I  am  happy  to  report  that  our  missionaries  were  all  well  when  we 
left  them.  Their  spirits  were  high,  and  they  were  displaying  a  remark- 
able devotion  to  the  trust  which  had  been  reposed  in  them.  Likewise 
with  the  saints,  the  members  of  the  Church.  We  bring  you  greetings 
from  these,  and  President  Rees  and  his  good  wife,  who  succeeded  us 
there.    They  would  all  like  to  be  with  you  today. 

There  has  been  a  remarkable  change  in  the  public  attitude  toward 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  hear  of  this  so  much  these  days.  I  want  to 
explain  briefly  some  of  the  incidents  which  support  this  declaration. 


ELDER  CLARENCE  H.  TIN  GEY 


71 


On  the  day  that  we  were  celebrating  the  104th  anniversary  of  the 
appearance  of  John  the  Baptist  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  I 
was  honored  with  an  invitation  from  the  Council  of  Churches  of  Sidney 
to  attend  a  meeting  of  representative  ministers  of  all  faiths.  There  were 
some  four  or  five  hundred  representatives  there.  Dr.  Norwood,  of  the 
City  Temple  of  London,  was  the  speaker.  As  I  looked  over  that  vast 
group  of  intelligent,  clean-looking  men,  I  felt  a  distinct  insignificance, 
and  yet,  as  the  thought  came  to  me  of  the  day  on  which  that  gathering 
was  held,  I  stood  amazed  at  this  thought:  Among  all  of  these  men  I 
could  claim  honestly  and  legitimately  to  be  the  only  one  among  them 
who  actually  held  the  priesthood  of  Almighty  God. 

But  these  men  were  friends,  most  of  them,  a  most  interesting 
change,  compared  to  that  which  we  had  experienced  previously. 

At  the  farewell  which  was  given  us  when  we  left  Sidney,  there  were 
members  of  Parliament,  doctors,  university  professors,  members  of  the 
American  Consul's  Office,  the  mayor,  and  a  number  of  his  aldermen,  of 
the  city  municipality  where  our  headquarters  are  situated.  All  of  them 
came  happily,  extending  their  congratulations  for  the  work  which  was 
being  done  by  our  small  organization  in  that  part. 

Mayor  Goddard  addressed  the  group,  as  did  others,  and  in  addition 
to  his  splendid  tribute,  verbal  tribute,  presented  us  with  a  letter  of 
appreciation,  signed  by  himself,  the  town  clerk,  and  under  the  corporate 
seal  of  the  municipality. 

These  things,  brethren  and  sisters,  would  have  been  almost  unbe- 
lievable had  they  been  mentioned  a  number  of  years  ago.  President 
Callis  spoke  of  the  leaven.  I  declare  before  you  that  the  leaven  of  the  Gos- 
pel is  operating.  It  is  permeating  the  hearts  of  men.  It  is  sinking  deep 
into  the  consciousness  of  intelligent  men  and  women.  And  I  bear 
witness  before  you  today  that  come  what  will,  let  all  the  fury  of  the 
world,  all  of  the  inbred  hatred  of  mankind,  be  released  at  once  and  let 
it  wrap  the  world  in  its  embrace,  it  shall  not  stop  the  development,  the. 
progress  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus,  the  Christ,  was  his  Son, 
and  I  delight  in  that  testimony.  I  bear  witness  also  that  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  faithful,  honest,  humble  prophet  of  the  living  God ; 
that  the  priesthood  which  is  now  held  by  the  Church,  the  keys  of  which 
are  in  the  hands  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  is  indeed  the  priesthood  of 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  has  a  right  to  operate,  legally  and  efficiently 
among  the  children  of  men. 

May  God  help  us  to  understand  the  treasure  that  has  been  given  us, 
I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANCIS  SALZNER 

Former  President  of  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  only  once  before  in  my  life  have  I 
beheld  such  a  sight  as  I  see  today.   I  shall  never  forget  it.   I  pray  for 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


your  indulgence  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  guide  the  few  remarks 
that  I  may  make  today,  that  they  may  be  worthy  of  the  cause  that  we 
represent  and  of  this  great  occasion. 

In  returning  from  presiding  over  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission, 
having  been  home  some  three  months  now,  I  wish  to  bring  to  you  the 
greetings  of  the  missionaries  and  the  saints  of  the  Swiss  and  German 
Mission.  Of  the  missionaries  I  may  say  that  I  don't  think  there  has 
ever  been  a  finer  lot  of  young  men  sent  out  into  the  world  at  any  time 
than  the  missionaries  who  have  labored  with  us  in  that  mission. 

I  also  wish  to  commend  the  fidelity  and  the  faithfulness  of  those 
good  saints  who  make  up  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission.  They  are 
surely  an  example  to  us,  and  I  have  received  from  them  and  their  in- 
fluence a  great  deal  of  benefit,  for  I  have  seen  things  there  which  I 
never  beheld  before.  I  have  seen  how  the  Gospel  has  taken  hold  of 
them,  and  the  living  of  the  Gospel  has  brought  unto  them  the  greatest 
of  blessings. 

Yes,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  unto  salvation  to  those 
who  obey  it  and  live  it,  and  there  we  see  those  faithful  saints  trying  with 
all  their  might  to  live  it,  and  the  blessings  of  God  are  showered  upon 
them.  Peace  and  joy  and  happiness  are  in  their  homes  and  their  hearts, 
and  they  appreciate  the  Gospel.  I  wish  that  we  also  would  appreciate 
its  blessings  as  those  saints  do  who  are  in  that  far-off  land. 

There  was,  while  we  were  there,  what  is  known  as  a  revolution,  in- 
asmuch as  the  government  changed  from  a  democracy  to  a  dictatorship. 
We  had  expected  perhaps  to  be  curtailed  in  our  rights  or  in  our  privi- 
leges, I  may  say,  but  until  now  we  have  been  free  to  preach  the  Gospel. 
We  have  preached  repentance  and  baptized  people.  What  the  future 
will  bring  of  course  we  do  not  know. 

Brother  Ballard  has  mentioned  the  religious  contention  over  there. 
This  perhaps  is  somewhat  misunderstood  by  us  here;  perhaps  taken 
much  more  seriously  than  it  really  is.  This  idea  of  a  pagan  religion, 
as  fostered  by  Dr.  Rosenberg,  who  has  a  following  of  perhaps  two  hun- 
dred and  fifty  or  three  hundred  thousand  out  of  sixty-five  million  people 
is  of  small  consequence,  although  we  can  see  from  all  this  contention 
that  the  people  are  not  satisfied  with  the  religion  which  they  have  and 
are  looking  for  something  different. 

In  the  western  part  of  Germany,  which  is  mostly  Catholic,  I  noticed 
this  summer  there  has  been  a  new  movement  started,  namely,  the  people 
want  a  Rome-free  church,  devoid  of  pagan  ceremony  and  rituals.  They 
want  to  come  back  again  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  the  things 
which  influence  men  and  help  them  to  become  better  and  make  life 
better  for  others. 

I  wish  also  to  relate  a  visit  that  I  made  to  a  world-known  establish- 
ment there,  which  is  called  Bethel.  It  is  located  near  the  city  of  Bielefeld, 
and  was  started  nearly  a  hundred  years  ago  by  a  pastor  by  the  name  of 
Dr.  Bodelschwink.  It  is  an  entirely  benevolent  institution,  and  is  built 
for  the  purpose  of  taking  care  of  epileptic  patients.    The  day  we  were 


ELDER  FRANCIS  SALZNER 


73 


there,  there  were  over  five  thousand  patients  in  that  institution,  and  I 
saw  the  most  pitiable  sights  I  have  ever  seen  in  my  life.  After  going 
through  the  institution  we  talked  to  the  guide  and  he  told  us  that  in  every 
case  they  make  a  thorough  study  of  the  ancestry  of  the  patient,  to  try 
to  determine  what  is  the  cause  of  that  condition  in  the  patient.  He  said 
they  have  determined  that  sixty-five  per  cent  of  those  unfortunates  have 
been  brought  to  that  condition  through  drunkenness  of  the  parents  and 
grandparents ;  twenty-five  per  cent  from  sexual  diseases ;  ten  per  cent 
they  were  unable  to  determine. 

Sometimes  when  I  hear  Latter-day  Saints  say :  "I  wish  they  would 
not  talk  any  more  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom,"  I  say,  let  us  cry  out 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  to  the  four  ends  of  the  world,  that  the  people  may 
know  what  God  says  about  this  thing.  When  I  looked  at  those  thou- 
sands of  unfortunates  there,  I  felt  shocked  when  I  realized  that  the 
responsibility  for  their  condition  rested  upon  some  one  else,  that  their 
parents  through  drunkenness  were  responsible  and  that  the  suffering 
could  have  been  avoided  had  those  parents  and  grandparents  been  prop- 
erly taught  from  their  youth  up. 

We  as  a  church  stand  out  in  the  world  today  as  teaching  the  great 
principle,  that  a  clean  life  is  the  one  thing  that  will  bring  happiness  and 
joy  to  us  and  to  our  posterity.  We  don't  know  how  far-reaching  this  is  ; 
we  don't  know  how  many  are  affected  by  our  living  clean,  upright,  hon- 
orable lives. 

When  I  listened  yesterday  to  Elder  Hinckley  giving  us  a  eulogy  on 
these  men  who  are  sitting  here  upon  this  stand,  I  thought  how  blessed 
are  we  to  have  such  men  as  our  leaders, — men  experienced  in  almost 
every  walk  of  life,  who  can  give  unto  us  counsel  and  advice,  who  can 
look  ahead  and  show  unto  us  the  way  which  we  should  go,  who  can  see 
the  pitfalls  ahead  of  us  and  warn  us  of  the  dangers.  How  thankful  we 
should  be  for  such  leaders,  and  we  should  go  home  and  put  into  practice 
the  counsels  that  they  give  us,  and  by  doing  so  we  would  all  be  blessed. 

Many  times  I  have  said  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  to  live  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  they  would  be  the  greatest  power  in  the  world 
today.  Men  would  come  here  from  every  corner  of  the  world  to  see 
the  accomplishments  and  the  lives  of  these  people.  The  reason  why  this 
prophecy  which  was  read  to  us  this  morning — that  men  should  come  up 
to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord  to  learn  of  the  Lord's  ways — has  not  been 
fulfilled  is  because  we,  as  a  people,  are  not  living  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  we  should.  We  have  a  power  in  our  hands,  but  as  yet  we 
haven't  made  use  of  it. 

A  professor  in  one  of  the  largest  universities  in  Germany  called 
upon  me  just  a  few  days  before  I  left  for  home.  He  had  been  here  in 
Salt  Lake  City  for  six  months,  studying  the  economic  side  of  Mormon- 
ism,  and  he  said :  "You  people  have  got  the  greatest  thing  in  all  the 
world,  but  you  don't  know  how  to  use  it." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  go  home  from  this  conference  and 
disseminate  the  spirit  of  this  conference  among  our  neighbors  and 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


friends,  using  our  influence  wherever  possible  to  build  up,  to  raise  up, 
and  to  induce  our  brethren  and  sisters  to  live  the  Gospel.  By  doing  so 
we  shall  make  a  better  state,  a  better  community,  and  a  nicer  place  in 
the  world  to  live. 

May  God  bless  you  all.  May  the  spirit  of  this  conference  emanate 
from  here  to  every  corner  of  the  Church,  that  its  influence  may  also  be 
made  manifest  with  those  who  are  not  present  here,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Hosanna  anthem  (Stephens)  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  for  the  first  time  in  my  recollection 
all  of  the  returned  mission  presidents  have  had  the  opportunity  of 
speaking  in  Conference. 

ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege 
of  again  attending  a  general  conference  of  the  Church.  I  have 
often  remarked  during  my  work  in  the  mission  field  that  I  was  sure 
the  Lord  knew  what  he  was  doing  when  he  instituted  conferences 
in  the  Church,  as  they  are  always  a  great  inspiration  to  the  saints 
and  to  those  who  bear  the  responsibility  of  leadership,  from  the 
very  head  down  through  all  the  organizations  of  the  Church.  I  am 
very  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  this  great  organization. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  during  the  past  thirty  years  to  labor 
in  nearly  every  one  of  the  various  auxiliaries  of  the  Church  and  the 
quorums  of  the  priesthood,  and  having  presided  as  a  bishop  of  a  ward 
and  the  president  of  a  stake  I  have  often  noted  that  the  men  and 
women  who  were  assigned  to  labor  in  the  various  auxiliaries  felt 
that  their  particular  assignment  was  the  very  most  important  part 
of  the  great  organization  of  the  Church,  because  of  the  splendid 
work  assigned  to  the  particular  organization  in  which  they  were 
serving.  I  feel  that  as  we  analyze  the  various  auxiliaries  and  the 
priesthood  quorums  and  see  the  work  that  is  being  accomplished, 
we  recognize  that  truly  this  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder. 

When  the  Apostle  Paul  referred  to  the  organization  of  the 
Church  and  named  the  offices  therein  he  said,  that  this  organization 
had  been  given  to  men,  "for  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the 
work  of  the  ministry,  and  for  the  edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ, 
till  we  all  come  to  a  unity  of  the  faith  and  of  the  knowledge  of  the 
Son  of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of  the  stature 
of  the  fulness  of  Christ;  that  we  henceforth  should  be  no  more 
children  tossed  to  and  fro,  and  carried  about  with  every  wind  of 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


75 


doctrine,  by  the  sleight  of  men  and  cunning  craftiness,  whereby 
they  lie  in  wait  to  deceive." 

I  feel  grateful  that  the  organization  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth  which  contemplates  the  direction  of  the  activities  of  the  lives 
of  its  members,  in  the  carrying  out  of  this  great  mission,  and  I  am 
sure  that  this  mission  could  not  be  fully  accomplished  without 
such  an  organization.  I  think  you  realize  with  me  that  there  are 
those  who  lie  in  wait  with  cunning  craftiness  and  the  doctrines  of 
men,  seeking  to  lead  away  and  destroy  the  faith  of  our  people.  In 
the  particular  work  assigned  to  the  Church,  to  which  Paul  refers, 
one  important  part  is  the  work  of  the  ministry,  and  since  that 
happens  to  be  my  assignment  at  this  time  I  desire  to  say  a  few 
words  about  missionary  work. 

True  to  form,  it  seems  to  me  that  this  is  almost  the  most 
important  part  of  the  work,  and  yet  when  I  realize  how  important 
are  our  auxiliaries  in  preparing  men  and  women  for  activity  in  the 
Church,  I  realize  that  one  department  is  not  more  important  than 
the  other;  but  I  do  want  to  say  to  you  that  it  is  a  great  joy  to  have 
the  privilege  of  laboring  with  your  young  sons  and  daughters  who 
come  into  the  mission  field.  Sometimes  I  feel  that  the  mission  field 
might  be  likened  unto  the  great  laboratory  of  the  Church,  where 
our  boys  and  girls  are  privileged  to  put  into  activity  and  to  the 
test  the  things  that  they  have  been  taught  in  the  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, to  try  them  out  to  see  if  they  are  good  and  true  to  the  teach- 
ings that  we  have  received.  We  read  in  holy  writ  that  "this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee,  the  only  true  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent."  And  he  that  hath  faith  must  "believe 
that  God  is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek 
him." 

It  is  a  glorious  thing  in  the  mission  field  to  see  how  the  faith 
of  these  boys  and  girls  is  developed  in  a  very  short  period  of  time, 
so  that  they  actually  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  moves  in  the 
affairs  of  individuals  and  of  peoples  and  of  nations.  These  boys  and 
.girls  soon  have  all  doubt  dispelled.  Many  of  them  come  to  us  with 
critical  ideas  and  analytical  minds,  and  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  sit 
with  them  as  they  begin  to  study  the  scriptures,  and  see  how  mar- 
velously  the  truth  of  the  Gospel,  as  it  has  been  committed  to  us  by 
the  prophets  and  restored  in  these  latter  days,  unfolds;  how  their 
minds  are  able  to  grasp  the  truth  of  it,  and  to  see  how  their  faith  in 
God  develops  so  that  their  prayers  become  sincere,  and  they  feel 
that  the  Lord  is  with  them. 

When  our  missionaries  travel  on  the  highways  it  is  not  just 
a  mere  form  with  them  that  they  find  a  little  clump  of  trees  and 
kneel  down  together  and  ask  God  to  open  the  way  that  they  may 
be  provided  with  transportation.  They  learn  not  only  that  it  is 
recorded  that  the  priesthood  has  been  restored,  but  that  God  recog- 
nizes their  administration  when  they  are  called  to  administer  to  the 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sick  and  to  otherwise  officiate  in  his  name.  They  learn  that  he 
lives ;  they  come  to  realize  and  know  that  the  Lord  is  working 
toward  a  great  end  and  destiny.  They  learn  to  observe  the  influence 
of  the  Gospel  upon  the  lives  of  the  men  and  women  who  keep  the 
commandments  of  God. 

It  seems  to  me  that  in  the  face  of  demonstrated  truth,  before 
the  eyes  of  our  boys  and  girls,  it  should  be  very  difficult  for  them 
to  return  home  and  turn  away  from  the  teachings  of  this  Church. 
Men  and  women  are  literally  born  again.  They  are  literally  made 
over  in  a  very  brief  space  of  time  through  the  influence  of  the 
Gospel  in  their  lives. 

At  a  conference  a  few  weeks  ago,  one  man  who  had  been  a 
member  of  the  Church  since  last  November  was  called  upon  to 
speak,  and  he  said:  "Brethren  and  sisters  I  have  grown  more  in  the 
last  year  than  in  all  the  rest  of  my  life."  These  boys  and  girls 
contact  the  Saints  and  hear  their  testimonies  day  after  day  because 
of  their  faithfulness  in  keeping  his  commandments.  The  letters 
that  reach  the  mission  office  bring  great  joy  and  happiness  to  our 
souls  because  of  the  faithful  testimonies  of  these  saints.  One  good 
sister  wrote  in  the  other  day  and  said : 

"Brother  Richards,  when  the  season  commenced  we  hardly 
knew  how  to  get  the  seed  to  plant  our  crops,  and  now  our  bins  arc 
full  of  grain  and  our  smoke  houses  are  full  of  hams.  I  don't  know 
why,  except  that  we  pay  our  tithing." 

I  went  down  into  Florida  a  few  months  ago,  following  a  very 
cold  spell  that  destroyed  many  of  the  crops  there.  As  I  went 
through  the  groves  of  one  of  our  faithful  saints  I  said :  "Brother 
So  and  So,  it  is  remarkable  how  well  your  crops  thrive." 

He  said :  "President  Richards,  my  crop  is  tithed." 

In  the  midst  of  all  these  demonstrated  evidences  that  the  Lord 
does  keep  his  promises  to  his  people,  our  boys  and  girls  are  seeing 
worked  out  before  their  eyes  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises  of  the 
Lord.  I  remember  a  promise  that  the  Lord  gave  unto  his  people 
in  this  day.    He  said : 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise. 

I  want  to  bring  you  the  greetings  of  the  missionaries  and  the 
saints  in  the  Southern  States  Mission.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
privilege  of  laboring  with  them,  and  I  feel  that  this  great  missionary 
system  of  the  Church  is  one  of  the  very  outstanding  parts  of  its 
organization.  I  feel  grateful  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  who  are 
making  the  sacrifices  to  send  their  boys  and  girls  into  the  mission 
field.  I  pray  that  this  spirit  may  increase  in  power  among  the 
saints  and  never  diminish,  so  that  our  boys  and  girls  may  enjoy 
the  great  privilege  of  experience  and  training  that  comes  to  them. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


77 


May  God  bless  this  great  Church  and  its  leaders  and  all  who 
labor  therein,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  pray  that  I  may  be  guided  by  the  Holy  Spirit  in  what  I  say  this 
afternoon,  on  a  subject  that  is  of  great  interest  to  us  all. 

Just  four  hundred  years  ago  there  was  printed,  possibly  in  Zurich, 
Switzerland,  the  first  complete  English  Bible.  The  translation  had  been 
made  and  secreted  and  carried  over  to  the  Swiss  people,  who  at  that  time 
had  established  a  free  government.  The  translator  was  Miles  Coverdale, 
and  his  translation  became  the  basis  of  the  English  Bible  that  we  study 
today. 

The  word  "Bible"  signifies  books,  and  these  books,  sixty-six  in  num- 
ber, are  bound  into  one  volume.  It  took  some  fifteen  hundred  years  to 
write  these  books  by  the  authors,  who  were  prophets  of  God,  and  who 
gave  us  the  basis  of  our  true  religion.  No  inscriptions  discovered  by 
the  archaeologists  compare  with  it  in  value.  As  we  all  know,  there  are 
two  Testaments,  both  of  which  were  written  entirely  by  Jews.  The  Old 
Testament  narrates  the  history  of  Israel,  as  a  background.  Every  phase 
of  human  form  of  endeavor  is  revealed  with  unsparing  and  yet  tender 
realism,  and  enriched  by  poetic  accomplishments. 

The  New  Testament,  filled  with  allusions  to  the  Old  Testament,  con- 
tains an  account  of  Jesus,  his  disciples,  his  teachings,  and  his  founding  of 
Christianity.  There  are  the  four  gospels  or  lives  of  Christ ;  together  with 
the  writings  of  Peter  and  Paul  and  others  of  the  apostles ;  and  the  great 
vision  of  John  the  Revelator,  who  writes  of  the  New  Jerusalem,  where 
sorrow  and  weeping  shall  be  no  more.  The  Bible  is  thus  the  work  of 
many  minds,  writing  in  different  ages. 

When  William  Tyndale,  farther  back  in  time  than  Miles  Coverdale, 
translated  parts  of  the  Bible,  he  went  to  Belgium  and  suffered  martyrdom 
for  his  work.  But  the  work  of  Tyndale  and  Miles  Coverdale  brought 
about  the  translation  of  the  Bible  in  1611,  which  required  six  years  for 
the  fifty-six  scholars  to  translate  the  old  Latin  and  Greek  Bible.  The 
Bible  at  the  time  of  the  Savior  was  in  Greek.  It  had  been  translated  by 
Greek  scholars  in  the  old  city  of  Alexandria  about  two  hundred  and 
seventy  years  before  Christ. 

Interesting  to  you  and  me  today  is  the  fact  that  one  of  the  earliest 
translations  of  the  Holy  Bible  was  made  by  the  Ethiopians  far  back  in 
the  fourth  century.  The  Ethiopians  are  Semitic.  They  are  descendants 
of  Shem  as  were  the  ancient  Israelites.  The  man  who  today  is  at  the 
head  of  the  kingdom  of  Ethiopia  is  a  great  character.  We  have  on 
record,  according  to  a  European  writer,  that  he  has  prayed  in  his  heart 
that  if  his  people  are  influenced  by  the  spirit  of  progress  of  the  western 
nations,  that  they  might  be  preserved  in  their  traditions  and  in  their 
religion. 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


To  give  an  example :  One  of  the  loveliest  ideas,  I  think,  that  we 
may  learn  from  that  great  people,  though  they  are  still  living  their  primi- 
tive lives,  is  in  reference  to  the  holy  day  of  God,  or  Sabbath  Day.  Their 
king  has  sent  out  a  decree  that  as  they  take  upon  themselves  the  civiliza- 
tion of  the  West,  that  his  people  will  never  do  anything  to  desecrate  the 
holy  day  of  God.  We  do  pray  for  them,  for  it  is  interesting  to  know 
that  they  had  one  of  the  first  Bibles. 

It  is  said  that :  "The  first  leaf  of  the  Mosaic  record" — these  are  the 
words  of  John  Paul,  the  German — "has  more  weight  than  all  the  folios 
of  men  of  science  and  philosophy,"  "and  he  is  right,"  says  Geikie,  "for 
we  owe  to  it  the  earliest  and  grandest  revelation  of  that  first  principle 
of  all  religion,  the  existence,  the  unity,  the  personality  and  the  moral 
government  of  God." 

Almost  contemporary  with  the  Holy  Bible  is  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
really  the  Bible  of  the  American  continent.  Like  the  Holy  Bible,  it  was 
written  over  a  period  of  years,  and  like  the  Bible,  it  was  written  by 
divinely  inspired  prophets,  on  papyrus,  or  on  metal  plates,  then  finally 
all  brought  together  on  gold  plates,  to  be  found  and  translated  through 
the  gift  and  power  of  God,  by  a  prophet  of  these  the  last  days. 

These  two  divinely  written  books  form  the  greatest  message  ever 
given  to  the  human  race.  In  the  Bible  we  have  Moses ;  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  Nephi.  In  the  Bible  we  have  Isaiah ;  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
Alma.  In  the  Bible  we  have  Ezekiel ;  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Mosiah. 
All  were  prophets  of  holiness.  All  wrote  of  the  supreme  beauty,  truth 
and  goodness,  and  the  divine  gift  of  life  through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord. 
These  sacred  books  all  point  to  one  great  truth,  summed  up  in  what  the 
prophet  Moses  says,  at  the  beginning  of  the  ancient  scriptures  of  the  Old 
World,  when  he  wrote : 

In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 

And  the  earth  was  without  form,  and  void ;  and  darkness  was  upon  the 
face  of  the  deep.  And  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the 
waters. 

And  God  said,  let  there  be  light;  and  there  was  light. 

And  then,  some  two  thousand  years  later,  Jesus  of  Nazareth  gave  us 
the  same  message  in  the  holiest  words  he  ever  uttered,  namely,  the  Lord's 
prayer,  when  he  called  his  people  and  said  unto  them : 

After  this  manner  therefore  pray  ye :  Our  Father  which  art  in  heaven, 
hallowed  be  thy  name. 

The  holy  scriptures  express  the  great  truth  that  lies  at  the  very 
foundation  of  true  religion :  "Our  Father  in  heaven." 

The  American  prophet,  Mosiah,  also  wrote  the  same  message  when 
he  said : 

The  Lord  hath  made  bare  his  holy  arm  in  the  eyes  of  all  the  nations, 
and  all  the  ends  of  the  earth  shall  see  the  salvation  of  our  God. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


79 


Should  we  not  more  and  more  read  the  holy  scriptures  and  know 
them  ?  How  shall  we  know  the  truth  about  them  ?  There  is  but  one  way. 
It  is  the  way  that  was  given  us  by  the  ancient  prophet,  Moroni.  He 
wrote,  some  fifteen  hundred  years  ago,  these  words  : 

Now  I.  Moroni,  write  somewhat  as  seemeth  me  good ;  and  I  write  unto 
my  brethren,  the  Lamanites ;  and  I  would  that  they  should  know  that  more 
than  four  hundred  and  twenty  years  have  passed  away  since  the  sign  was 
given  of  the  coming  of  Christ. 

And  I  seal  up  these  records,  after  I  have  spoken  a  few  words  by  way 
of  exhortation  unto  you. 

Behold,  I  would  exhort  you  that  when  ye  shall  read  these  things, 
if  it  be  wisdom  in  God  that  ye  should  read  them,  that  ye  would  remember 
how  merciful  the  Lord  hath  been  unto  the  children  of  men,  from  the  crea- 
tion of  Adam  even  down  until  the  time  that  ye  shall  receive  these  things, 
and  ponder  it  in  your  hearts. 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye 
would  ask  God,  the  eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things 
are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent, 
having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Jesus,  the  Savior,  gave  us  this  same  truth,  and  every  prophet  has 
given  us  the  same  admonition  from  then  until  the  present  hour:  "Seek 
ye  the  kingdom  of  God  and  the  word  of  God,  and  ye  shall  know." 

This  is  our  message  to  the  world.  Knowledge  of  God  can  come  in 
no  other  way  but  by  prayer  and  revelation.  May  we  go  forth,  illuminated 
as  we  will  be  by  this  great  conference,  and  become  a  light  unto  the  world, 
and  remember  in  our  hearts  always  that  it  is  our  Father  in  heaven  who 
is  directing  his  holy  work,  through  the  priesthood  of  God  which  he  has 
established  in  the  world. 

That  we  may  be  blessed  to  this  end,  I  ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  happy  this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  having  this 
privilege  of  meeting  with  you.  I  have  rejoiced  in  this  conference  from 
the  very  first  moment.  I  find  here  the  spirit  of  peace  and  of  love,  the 
spirit  which  comes  always  when  men  and  women  are  engaged  in  the 
work  of  our  Father,  our  God. 

As  I  sat  here  yesterday  and  listened  to  the  music,  and  thought  of 
the  work  of  the  Summit  Stake  choir  that  sang  for  us  yesterday,  I  saw 
them  gathering  in  little  groups  in  different  parts  of  their  stake.,  driving 
four,  six,  eight  or  ten  miles,  one  night  each  week,  to  a  meeting  place, 
to  prepare  themselves  to  be  of  service  to  their  fellows  in  their  own  stake. 
A  week  ago  tonight  they  drove  from  their  homes  to  this  building,  where 
they  practiced  for  two  hours. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  see  in  that  not  only  the  music,  which  is  helpful  'to  all,  but  also 
a  service  in  which  they  too  have  found  joy  and  happiness.  Yesterday,  as 
I  looked  over  this  group,  and  felt  the  spirit  that  was  present,  I  looked 
in  imagination  beyond  this  building  out  into  the  world,  and  I  saw  war 
and  bloodshed  and  strife  and  turmoil,  selfishness  and  greed. 

Then  I  looked  back  a  few  centuries  and  I  saw  the  Pilgrim  Fathers 
coming  to  this  land.  I  saw  them  tilling  the  virgin  soil  and  making 
homes.  Finally  I  saw  them  as  the  bands  of  oppression  were  again 
tightening  upon  them,  and  I  saw  them  taking  up  arms  to  defend  their 
liberty  and  their  rights,  for  which  they  had  suffered  untold  hardships. 
I  saw  them  at  Lexington  and  at  Concord,  poorly  equipped,  but  with 
courage,  facing  the  trained  army  of  their  parent  nation.  I  saw  them 
expend  their  ammunition  and  retreat  before  superior  forces,  but  deter- 
mined and  hoping  and  praying. 

It  is  said  by  military  experts  that  had  the  British  at  that  time 
followed  through  with  the  course  they  had  commenced  the  great  revolu- 
tion would  have  been  at  an  end  and  the  United  States  would  not  have 
existed.  But  instead  they  took  to  their  ships,  leaving  several  hundred 
cannon,  ammunition  and  supplies  sufficient  partly  to  equip  the  then 
small  army  which  they  had  been  fighting. 

The  colonials  continued  on  with  that  great  struggle,  which  lasted 
for  more  than  three  years,  without  a  single  chance  of  winning — enough 
to  discourage  anyone — until  finally  victory  came  on  that  historic  night 
when  Washington  crossed  the  Delaware  river  with  his  troops,  starting 
in  three  columns,  two  of  which  failed  to  arrive.  There  was  no  battle. 
One  man  was  taken  prisoner,  two  men  killed,  and  two  men  frozen  to 
death. 

In  reviewing  all  of  this — I  am  going  over  it  hurriedly,  because  time 
will  not  permit  me  to  go  into  detail — I  refer  to  a  report  made  by  a 
military  reviewing  officer  who  said,  "One  is  almost  compelled  to  believe 
they  were  protected  through  divine  providence." 

And  later,  when  we  were  engaged  in  the  Civil  War,  the  Northern 
forces  outnumbered  the  South,  but  did  not  have  the  spirit  and  determina- 
tion found  in  the  South.  They  were  beaten  in  every  battle  for  three 
years,  and  there  were  times  when  the  Northern  forces  were  almost 
completely  surrounded,  but  each  time  something  happened  that  caused 
the  Southerners  to  withdraw  and  the  Northern  forces  were  permitted  to 
reorganize.  Finally,  when  the  South  had  exhausted  its  man  power  and 
its  resources,  it  was  compelled  to  surrender,  and  the  history  was  written. 
The  military  reviewer  said :  "We  are  almost  compelled  to  agree  with 
those  who  believe  that  this  great  government  was  established  through 
divine  providence."  It  seems  to  me  that  one  cannot  be  a  Latter-day 
Saint  unless  he  believes  that  this  government  was  established  through 
divine  providence. 

I  want  to  read  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  I  refer  to  Ether, 
second  chapter,  9th  and  10th  verses  : 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


81 


And  now  we  can  behold  the  decrees  of  God  concerning  this  land, 
that  it  is  a  land  of  promise;  and  whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall 
serve  God,  or  they  shall  be  swept  off  when  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  shall 
come  upon  them.  And  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  cometh  upon  them  when 
they  are  ripened  in  iniquity; 

For  behold,  this  is  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands ; 
wherefore  he  that  doth  possess  it  shall  serve  God  or  shall  be  swept  off; 
for  it  is  the  everlasting  decree  of  God. 

And  again,  in  Ether  the  13th  chapter,  beginning  with  the  first  verse : 

And  now  I,  Moroni,  proceed  to  finish  my  record  concerning  the 
destruction  of  the  people  of  whom  I  have  been  writing. 

For  behold,  they  rejected  all  the  words  of  Ether ;  for  he  truly  told 
them  of  all  things,  from  the  beginning  of  man ;  and  that  after  the  waters 
had  receded  from  oft"  the  face  of  this  land,  it  became  a  choice  land  above 
all  other  lands,  a  chosen  land  of  the  Lord;  wherefore  the  Lord  would 
have  that  all  men  should  serve  him  who  dwell  upon  the  face  thereof ; 

And  that  it  was  the  place  of  the  New  Jerusalem,  which  should 
come  down  out  of  heaven,  and  the  holy  sanctuary  of  the  Lord. 

Behold,  Ether  saw  the  days  of  Christ,  and  he  spake  concerning  a 
New  Jerusalem  upon  this  land. 

And  he  spake  also  concerning  the  house  of  Israel,  and  the  Jerusalem 
from  whence  Lehi  should  come — after  it  should  be  destroyed  it  should 
be  built  up  again,  a  holy  city  unto  the  Lord ;  wherefore,  it  could  not 
be  a  New  Jerusalem  for  it  had  been  in  a  time  of  old ;  but  it  should  be 
built  up  again,  and  become  a  tioly  city  of  the  Lord ;  and  it  should  be 
built  unto  the  house  of  Israel ; 

And  that  a  New  Jerusalem  should  be  built  up  upon  this  land,  unto 
the  remnant  of  the  seed  of  Joseph,  for  which  things  there  has  been  a 
type. 

For  as  Joseph  brought  his  father  down  into  the  land  of  Egypt,  even 
so  he  died  there;  wherefore,  the  Lord  brought  a  remnant  of  the  seed  of 
Joseph  out  of  the  land  of  Jerusalem,  that  he  might  be  merciful  unto  the 
seed  of  Joseph  that  they  should  perish  not,  even  as  he  was  merciful  unto 
the  father  of  Joseph  that  he  should  perish  not ; 

Wherefore,  the  remnant  of  the  house  of  Joseph  shall  be  built  upon 
this  land ;  and  it  shall  be  a  land  of  their  inheritance ;  and  they  shall  build 
up  a  holy  city  unto  the  Lord,  like  unto  the  Jerusalem  of  old. 

And  Nephi,  recorded  in  I  Nephi,  2nd  chapter,  beginning  with  the 
19th  verse : 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake  unto  me,  saying:  Blessed 
art  thou,  Nephi,  because  of  thy  faith,  for  thou  hast  sought  me  diligently, 
with  lowliness  of  heart. 

And  inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep  my  commandments,  ye  shall  prosper, 
and  shall  be  led  to  a  land  of  promise ;  yea,  even  a  land  which  I  have 
prepared  for  you ;  yea,  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands. 

And  I  Nephi,  17th  chapter,  beginning  with  the  33rd  verse: 
the  land  of  promise,  who  were  driven  out  by  our  fathers,  do  ye  suppose 

And  now,  do  ye  suppose  that  the  children  of  this  land,  who  were  in 
that  they  were  righteous?   Behold  I  say  unto  you,  Nay. 

Do  ye  suppose  that  our  fathers  would  have  been  more  choice  than 
they  if  they  had  been  righteous  ?    I  say  unto  you,  Nay. 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Behold,  the  Lord  esteemeth  all  flesh  in  one ;  he  that  is  righteous  is 
favored  of  God.  But  behold,  this  people  had  rejected  every  word  of 
God,  and  they  were  ripe  in  iniquity;  and  the  fulness  of  the  wrath  of  God 
was  upon  them ;  and  the  Lord  did  curse  the  land  against  them,  and  bless 
it  unto  our  fathers;  yea,  he  did  curse  it  against  them  unto  their  destruc- 
tion, and  he  did  bless  it  unto  our  fathers,  unto  their  obtaining  power  over 
it. 

Behold,  the  Lord  hath  created  the  earth  that  it  should  be  inhabited ; 
and  he  hath  created  his  children,  that  they  should  possess  it. 

And  he  raiseth  up  a  righteous  nation,  and  destroyeth  the  nations  of 
the  wicked. 

And  he  leadeth  away  the  righteous  into  precious  lands,  and  the  wicked 
he  destroyeth,  and  curseth  the  land  unto  them  for  their  sakes. 

We  have  gone  through  great  tribulations  during  the  last  few  years — 
depression,  we  call  it.  Brother  Ballard  called  upon  us  to  get  away  from 
the  dole,  to  get  away  from  relief.  It  seems  to  me  that  some  of  us  are 
in  the  condition  the  people  were  in  at  the  time  the  prophet  of  the  Lord 
said:  "Will  a  man  rob  God?"  and  he  was  speaking  of  tithing.  There 
are  those  who  rob  God,  for  they  fail  to  pay  their  tithing.  Brother 
LeGrand  Richards  has  given  us  one  little  reminder  of  what  the  Lord 
will  do  for  those  who  approach  him  in  faith. 

Have  we  ever  stopped  to  wonder  whether  or  not  we  have  robbed 
God  of  our  time  ?  He  requires  that  we  give  of  our  time  in  the  service 
of  his  cause,  in  laboring  with  our  fellow  men,  those  who  have  troubles, 
those  who  are  weak,  those  who  need  encouraging ;  and  he  says :  "Let 
those  who  are  strong  encourage  those  who  are  weak,  that  my  church 
may  be  built  up,"  and  it  is  our  responsibility. 

We  rob  him  of  his  holy  day.  It  is  a  holiday  with  many.  How 
many  times  have  you  called  your  solemn  assemblies  on  the  Sabbath  day, 
only  to  have  them  disturbed  by  ball  players  in  an  adjoining  lot?  I  have 
observed  that  a  few  times  this  year,  while  attending  conferences. 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  can  become  a  choice  land — a  land  choice 
above  all  other  lands — only  through  the  righteousness  of  God's  people, 
for  he  has  so  said,  and  there  is  no  other  interpretation  that  we  can  place 
upon  it.  Therefore,  if  depressions  come  upon  us,  if  we  are  caused  to 
suffer  because  of  a  lack  of  rain  or  moisture,  if  our  ground,  fails  to 
produce  in  the  season  thereof  sufficient  for  our  needs  and  requirements, 
may  it  not  be  because  we  go  about  our  work  unconcerned  for  those  who 
are  careless  and  neglectful  ? 

I  attended  a  conference  recently  where  the  president  apologized  for 
changing  the  program.  He  informed  me  that  the  people  came  from  great 
distances.  Instead  of  holding  a  meeting  on  Saturday  night  they  held 
it  at  one  o'clock,  in  order  to  provide  daylight  time  that  all  might  partici- 
pate in  a  ball  game  on  Saturday  afternoon,  and  he  pointed  out  to  me 
in  the  congregation  that  afternoon  the  players  who  would  play  after 
meeting.  After  our  meeting  had  been  brought  to  a  close  all  adjourned 
to  the  adjoining  ball  park  where  we  witnessed  the  ball  game,  leaving  the 
Sabbath  day  free  for  services  and  the  work  of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


83 


It  seems  to  me  this  is  not  a  difficult  thing  to  do.  I  have  no  desire 
to  deprive  any  young  man  or  boy  of  the  privilege  of  playing  ball  or 
engaging  in  any  other  athletic  sport.  I  think  they  need  to  do  so.  But  it 
seems  to  me  it  is  about  time  that  we  elders  of  Israel,  at  least  where  we 
have  control  and  have  the  right  to  say  what  shall  be  done,  should  put 
a  stop  to  the  desecration  of  that  day  which  God  has  said  "shall  be  holy." 

I  refer  to  these  matters  briefly,  as  a  reminder  to  us  that  while 
blessings  have  been  promised  they  are  contingent  upon  our  faithfulness 
to  the  work  entrusted  to  our  care.   The  Lord  has  said : 

I  give  unto  you  directions  how  you  may  act  before  me,  that  it  may 
turn  to  you  for  your  salvation. 

I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise.    (D.  &  C.  82 :9,  10.) 

Oh,  if  we  could  take  the  spirit  of  this  conference  home  and  sit 
down  with  these  boys  and  men,  pray  with  them  and  urge  them  to  see 
what  they  are  doing  to  their  fellow  men,  and  how  much  more  they  might 
enjoy  life  and  the  blessings  of  God  should  they  turn  their  minds  and 
their  thoughts  and  their  attention  to  him  and  his  work ! 

This  is  our  mission  at  home.  Brother  LeGrand  Richards  said: 
"It  is  a  great  privilege  to  sit  with  these  young  men  as  they  begin  to  study 
the  scriptures,  and  see  how  marvelously  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  as  it 
has  been  committed  to  us  by  the  prophets  and  restored  in  these  latter 
days  unfolds,  and  how  their  minds  are  able  to  grasp  the  truth."  And 
that  is  true,  too,  but  is  it  not  an  indictment  against  us  to  have  it  said 
that  young  men  go  to  the  mission  field  to  study  the  scriptures  and  to 
gain  a  testimony?  Brethren,  if  we  were  living  in  harmony  with  the 
Gospel  principles,  if  we  were  teaching  our  young  men  by  example  and 
precept,  they  would  go  out  into  the  mission  field  under  the  influence  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  and  with  a  testimony,  and  it  would  no  longer  be  said 
they  go  to  the  mission  field  to  gain  a  testimony. 

I  pray  that  the  day  will  soon  come  when  we  will  take  upon  us  fully 
this  responsibility,  and  see  to  it  that  every  young  man  who  goes  out  in 
the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel  knows  the  meaning  of  the  Gospel  prin- 
ciples, and  is  living  them  every  day  of  his  life. 

God  help  us  to  understand  and  engage  in  this  work  in  the  spirit 
which  he  is  willing  to  give  to  us,  and  without  which  we  cannot  accom- 
plish his  purposes,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  have  decided,  as  there  is  not  sufficient  time  left  for  another 
speaker  at  this  meeting,  to  read  the  report  of  changes  in  Church  .officers 
since  last  April  Conference. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL 
CONFERENCE 

General  Church  Officers: 

Franklin  L.  West  appointed  Commissioner  of  Education. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  appointed  Conductor  of  Tabernacle  Choir. 
New  Mission  President: 

Thomas  D.  Rees  succeeded  Clarence  H.  Tingey  as  President  of  the 
Australian  Mission. 
New  Stakes  Organized : 

Oahu  Stake,  taken  from  the  Hawaiian  Mission. 

North  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  was  part  of  the  Idaho  Falls  Stake. 

Highland  Stake,  was  part  of  the  Granite  Stake. 
New  Stake  Presidents : 

Lorenzo  H.  Hatch  succeeded  Hugh  B.  Brown  as  President  of  the 
Granite  Stake. 

Marvin  O.  Ashton  appointed  President  of  the  Highland  Stake. 
Elmer  E.  Hinckley  succeeded  Carl  K.  Conrad  as  President  of  the 
Nevada  Stake. 

David  Smith  appointed  President  of  the  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake. 

Ralph  E.  Woolley  appointed  President  of  the  Oahu  Stake. 

William  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  succeeded  Robert  I.  Burton  as  President 
of  the  Mt.  Ogden  Stake. 

George  Ariel  Bean  succeeded  David  I.  Stoddard  as  President  of 
the  Union  Stake. 
New  Wards  Organized: 

Copperton  Ward,  West  Jordan  Stake,  formerly  part  of  the  Bing- 
ham Ward. 

Draper  Second  Ward,  East  Jordan  Stake.  Draper  Ward  was 
divided  into  the  First  and  Second  Wards. 

Richfield  and  Hagerman  Wards,  Blaine  Stake,  were  formerly 
independent  branches. 

Hercules  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake,  was  the  Bacchus  Independent 
Branch. 

Malad  Third  Ward,  Malad  Stake,  was  taken  from  the  Malad  First 
and  Second  Wards. 

Riverton  Ward,  Blackfoot  Stake,  was  an  independent  branch. 

Spencer  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stak§.    Pleasant  Green  Ward  was  divided. 

Sugar  Second  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake.  Sugar  Ward  was  divided, 
into  the  First  and  Second  Wards. 

First,  Second,  Third,  Fourth,  Fifth  and  Laie  Wards,  Oahu  Stake. 
New  Independent  Branches: 

Courts  and  Tyrells  Lake  Branches,  Taylor  Stake,  formerly  depend- 
ent branches. 

Nyssa  Branch,  Boise  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  branch. 
Pomona  and  Victorville  Branches,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  taken 
from  the  California  Mission. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


85 


Whittier  Branch,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  taken  from  the  California 
Mission. 

Pearl  City,  Kahana,  Nanakuli,  Kaneche  and  Wahiawa  Branches, 
of  the  Oahu  Stake,  taken  from  the  Hawaiian  Mission. 
Names  of  Organizations  Changed : 

Fremont  Stake  to  Rexburg  Stake. 

Bramwell  Ward  to  Letha  Ward  of  the  Boise  Stake. 
Wards  and  Branches  Disorganised: 

Fort  Hall  Branch,  Blackfoot  Stake,  made  part  of  the  North  Poca- 
tello  Ward,  Pocatello  Stake. 

Hagerman  and  Richfield  Branches,  Blaine  Stake,  organized  into 
wards. 

Alton  Branch,  Montpelier  Stake,  became  part  of  the  Wardboro 
Ward. 

Bacchus  Branch,  Oquirrh  Stake,  became  the  Hercules  Ward. 

Riverton  Branch,  Blackfoot  Stake,  became  the  Riverton  Ward. 
Those  Who  Have  Died : 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  of  Tabernacle  Choir  and  member  of 
the  Music  Committee  of  the  Church. 

Elsie  Talmage  Brandley,  Associate  Editor  of  the  Improvement  Era 
and  a  member  of  the  General  Board  Y.  W.  M.  I.  A. 


Presented  for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General 
Authorities  and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxil- 
iary Officers,  all  of  whom  were  unanimously  sustained — as  follows : 


Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 


Melvin  J.  Ballard 
John  A.  Widtsoe 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 
Charles  A.  Callis 


Richard  R.  Lyman 


George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Stephen  L.  Richards 


Alonzo  A.  Hinckley 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Stephen  L.  Richards 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Richard  R.  Lyman 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Willard  Young  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Franklin  S.  Harris 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 


Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  W.  Hart 

Orval  W.  Adams 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


87 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Frank  W.  Asper 

Alexander  Schreiner  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Albert  E.  Bowen,  General  Superintendent 
George  Q.  Morris,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Franklin  L.  West,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

An  anthem,  "The  heavens  resound,"  (Beethoven)  was  sung  by  the 
Choir. 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  very  grateful  to  the  Singing  Mothers  for  their  splendid 
singing  this  morning,  and  also  to  our  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  German 
Choir  who  have  furnished  the  music  this  afternoon. 

There  are  approximately  120,000  blind  people  in  the  United  States, 
a  large  proportion  of  whom  read  Braille.  The  Church  has  authorized 
the  publication  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  Braille  for  the  benefit  of  our 
people. 

Elder  Stephen  L.  Chipman  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  9:30  Sunday  morning,  October  6. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  April  6. 

As  a  prelude  to  the  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  a  program  of 
choral  and  organ  music  was  rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
from  9 :30  to  10  :30  a.  m.,  which  program  was  broadcast  by  radio  through- 
out the  United  States  and  Canada,  over  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Sys- 
tem, originating  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City. 

When  the  time  arrived  for  commencing  this  service,  the  Tabernacle 
auditorium  and  galleries  were  crowded  with  people,  every  available  space 
being  occupied.  In  addition,  thousands  of  people  gathered  in  the  large 
Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  on  the  grounds, 
where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment,  they  listened  to  the  musical 
program  and  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were  broadcast  from 
the  Tabernacle. 

The  following  program  was  broadcast  by  the  Choir  and  Organ : 

"Glorious  things  are  sung  of  Zion"  (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Pilgrim's  Song  of  Hope"  (Batiste) — Organ. 

"How  lovely  are  the  Messengers"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

"Finale"  from  the  First  Organ  Symphony  (Vierne) — Organ. 

"Recessional"  (DeKoven) — Choir. 

"The  King  of  Glory"  (Parks)— Choir. 

"Deep  River"  (Arranged  by  organist) — Organ. 

"Holiness  becometh  the  House  of  the  Lord"  (Stephens) — Choir. 

"March  Solonnelle"  (Lemaigre) — Organ. 

"O  say,  What  is  Truth?"  (Jacques-Melling)— Choir. 

"O  My  Father"  (Arranged  by  organist) — Organ. 

"Hallelu j ah "  (  Beethoven )  — Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ 
accompaniments  and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Frank 
W.  Asper. 

After  the  conclusion  of  the  national  broadcast,  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

Elder  George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent  of  Sunday  Schools, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  again  a  great  pleasure  to  be  with  you 
and  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this  conference. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PAYS  TRIBUTE  TO  CHURCH  MUSIC  AND  MUSICIANS 

Once  more  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  music  of  our  Church.  Dur- 
ing this  conference  we  have  had  nothing  but  music  wonderfully  rendered, 
beginning  with  the  Summit  Stake  choir,  a  choir  from  one  of  our  smaller 
stakes,  singing  the  songs  of  Zion  in  beauty  and  in  melody ;  then  with  the 
Singing  Mothers,  who  sang,  as  it  seems  to  me,  with  all  of  the  love  and 
beauty  of  motherhood;  and  then  with  the  great  German  Choir  singing 
with  that  clarity  and  resonance  which  marks  the  minds  and  the  habits  of 
the  great  Germanic  nations;  and  lastly  with  our  own  choir  here  today, 
singing  sermons  to  us. 

I  want  to  pay  a  tribute  to  Brother  Tony  Lund,  whose  benign 
countenance  we  miss  today,  who  served  us  so  long  and  so  faithfully,  who 
was  devoted  to  his  work.  We  must  pay  tribute  to  his  musical  culture,  to 
the  breadth  of  his  musical  view.  It  was  his  lot  to  follow  a  man  of 
outstanding  ability,  and  he  does  not  suffer  by  the  comparison.  We  need 
men,  and  need  them  badly,  of  the  devotion  of  Tony  Lund. 

And  to  Brother  Cornwall  who  takes  his  place,  with  our  full  and 
entire  confidence,  we  welcome  him,  and  it  is  no  treason  to  those  who 
have  gone  before  that  we  wish  him  well  and  hope  that  the  choir,  under 
his  leadership,  will  go  ever  onward.  May  I  say  that  whether  Brother 
Spencer  Cornwall  knows  it  or  not,  he  now  stands  at  the  head  of  the 
greatest  choir  in  the  world,  a  choir  with  a  greater  potential  power  for 
righteousness  than  any  other  choir  in  the  world. 

THE  PATH  TO  PEACE 

"How  lovely  are  the  messengers  that  preacheth  the  Gospel  of 
peace !"  And  we,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  are  those  messengers.  Men 
may  cry,  "Peace,  peace,"  but  there  will  be  no  peace  until  men  and  women 
put  out  of  their  hearts  all  greed,  all  lust,  all  passion,  all  thirst 
for  power  and  earthly  riches,  all  unholy  ambitions.'  It  is  the  duty 
of  this  people  of  ours  to  be  the  leaven  that  shall  leaven  the  lump, 
in  all  of  these  things.  Until  we,  this  people,  can  eliminate  from  our 
minds  and  our  hearts  all  the  baser  passions  of  humanity  there  is  little 
hope  for  peace,  either  among  us  or  in  the  world. 

With  these  things  put  out  of  our  hearts,  and  with  us  living  lives  of 
peace,  of  good  will,  of  brotherly  love,  of  kindness,  no  one  knows  what 
the  influence  might  be,  and  God,  I  am  sure,  intends  that  when  we  shall 
reach  that  point  we  shall  assume  the  moral  leadership  of  the  world.  God 
grant  that  that  day  is  not  far  distant. 

AS  THE  LORD  WOULD  HAVE  US  LIVE 

"Clean  hands  and  pure  hearts,"  was  a  sermon  sung  this  morning. 
Clean  hands — clean  of  defilement  of  our  fellow  men,  clean  from  the 
goods  of  our  fellow  men,  clean  from  the  blood  of  our  fellow  men ;  that 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  91 


must  be  the  cleanliness  which  must  be  ours.  Pure  hearts — pure  before 
the  Lord ;  greed  and  lust  and  covetousness  banished  from  our  hearts, 
standing  pure  before  God,  that  he  may  look  therein  and  see  there  nothing 
which  would  cause  him  pain,  and  nothing  which  would  make  us  blush. 

I  have  often  said:  "I  wonder  how  we  would  all  stand,  and  indi- 
vidually how  I  would  stand,  if  I  were  told  that  God  was  yonder  in  the 
mountain  and  I  could  go  to  him  if  I  wished."  I  wonder  if  my  life  has 
been  such  that  I  could  go  and  stand  before  the  Being  who  could  look 
me  through  and  see  my  secret  thoughts  and  hopes  and  ambitions.  Un- 
less and  until,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  we  could  stand  that  test,  we  are 
not  living  as  the  Lord  would  have  us  live. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  LAW  NECESSARY 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have  been  told  that  we  are  governed  by 
law.  There  are  some  of  us  who  seem  to  fail  to  understand  that  fact. 
Read  the  88th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  see  what 
there  it  says  about  law,  and  the  necessity  that  we  shall  live  the  law,  if 
we  shall  be  what  God  wants  us  to  be,  and  if  we  shall  inherit  those  bless- 
ings and  those  glories  which  God  has  provided  for  us  if  we  do  but  live 
the  law. 

LAWS  OF  PUNISHMENT  AND  LAWS  OF  BLESSING 

To  my  mind  the  law  may  be  easily  resolved  into  two  categories: 
first,  the  law  of  command,  and  to  that  law  of  command  there  are  added 
punishments,  and  those  punishments  come  when  we  violate  the  law.  All 
the  great  laws  of  nature  are  of  this  type,  and  there  are  certain  great 
spiritual  laws — the  commission  of  the  unpardonable  sin,  the  commission 
of  adultery,  and  other  things — which  carry  with  them  their  own  punish- 
ment, whether  or  not  we  like  it. 

Then  there  are  the  great  laws  of  blessings.  The  Lord  has  given  to 
us  some  such  laws ;  sometimes  he  has  taken  them  away.  They  are  the 
laws  only  of  blessing,  there  being  attached  thereto  only  the  punishment 
that  we  fail  to  receive  the  blessing — and  great  enough  is  that  punishment 
at  times. 

You  will  recall  that  in  the  time  of  Moses  the  Lord  tried  to  per- 
suade the  people  that  they  should  accept  the  Melchizedek  priesthood. 
They  were  unable  to  do  so.    They  failed  to  receive  the  blessing. 

In  our  time  the  Lord  tried  to  establish  among  us  the  United  Order. 
We  were  not  able  to  live  it.   We  failed  to  receive  the  blessing. 

There  come  readily  to  mind  other  laws,  other  privileges  which  the 
Lord  has  given  to  us,  which  we  failed  to  live,  and  which  he  has  been 
obliged  to  take  away  from  us. 

DESTRUCTIVE  DOCTRINES 

There  are  abroad  among  us,  men,  and  women  also,  who  are  preach- 
ing doctrines  that  are  destructive  of  the  very  fiber  of  our  civilization. 
I  hear  now  and  again,  and  here  and  there,  the  doctrine  of  "free  love." 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


There  are  those  among  you  who  would  teach  your  children  that  the 
sexual  desire  is  like  any  other  biological  desire,  as  hunger  and  thirst,  and 
should  be  indulged  in  with  as  little  restraint  and  control  as  we  eat  and 
drink.    Nothing  baser  has  been  conceived  by  Satan  than  this  doctrine. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  watch  your  families,  your  children.  Teach 
them,  honor  them,  lead  them  away  from  this  terrible  sin.  I  was  taught 
by  my  parents  that  they  would  rather  carry  me  to  the  grave  than  that  I 
should  lose  my  virtue,  and  I  thank  God  for  that  teaching.  Until  we 
come  to  that  teaching,  until  that  is  the  feeling  and  the  thought  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  lust  will  stalk  among  us  and  take  his  toll. 

THE  LAWS  OF  GOD  IMMUTABLE 

There  is  sometimes  a  cry  among  our  young  people  for  a  loosening 
of  our  standards.  They  tell  us  that  our  standards  are  too  high,  and  the 
Church  must  abate  them.  My  brothers  and  sisters,  my  young  people,  the 
Church  cannot  change  the  laws  of  God.  They  stand  immutable.  We 
may  change  the  rules ;  we  may  say  that  a  drunkard  may  go  into  the 
temple ;  we  may  say  that  a  blasphemer  may  go  into  the  temple ;  we  may 
say  that  he  who  drinks  tea  and  coffee  may  go  into  the  temple.  These 
rules  we  may  change.  But  we  cannot  change  the  biological  law  that  he 
who  uses  narcotics  must  pay  the  penalty  somehow,  somewhere,  some- 
time— he  himself  or  his  children  or  his  children's  children.  And  this  is 
the  tragedy  and  the  curse  of  disobeying  nature's  laws  and  God's  laws. 
Remember  what  Brother  Salzner  said  yesterday:  In  that  great  institu- 
tion in  Germany  sixty-five  per  cent  of  the  epileptics  owe  their  epilepsy 
to  the  use  of  alcohol  by  some  of  their  forefathers. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  let  us  awaken.  Let  us  bring  into  our  hearts 
the  Gospel.   Let  us  live  it,  for  if  we  do  God  will  surely  bless  us. 

ONE  GREAT  EVIL  MASTER  MIND  AT  WORK 

It  seems  sometimes  as  if  the  darkness  that  surrounds  us  is  all  but 
impenetrable.  I  can  see  on  all  sides  the  signs  of  one  great  evil  master 
mind  working  for  the  overturning  of  our  civilization,  the  destruction  of 
religion,  the  reduction  of  men  to  the  status  of  animals.  This  mind  is 
working  here  and  there  and  everywhere.  May  we  hope  and  may  we 
pray  that  this  is  the  darkness  before  the  dawn,  and  that  soon  the  light 
will  come  in  the  east,  that  the  darkness  will  fade  out,  that  a  sun  of  right- 
eousness will  rise  and  touch  the  peaks  and  flow  down  and  fill  the  valleys, 
fill  our  hearts  and  fill  our  lives,  until  we  shall  be  the  people  which  God 
wishes  us  to  be. 

May  this  come  to  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  pray  the  Lord  humbly  and  prayerfully  that  he  will  give  to  me  of 
his  Holy  Spirit,  that  I  may  appreciate,  if  it  is  possible  for  us  to  appre- 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


93 


ciate,  the  great  honor  and  blessing  conferred  upon  us  in  holding  the 
holy  priesthood.  I  feel  it  a  great  honor  to  be  called  upon,  on  this 
occasion,  with  so  little  time  for  the  President  of  the  Church  to  have  all  his 
brethren  honored  and  privileged  in  speaking  of  the  Lord. 

You  all  know  by  this  time  that  I  have  a  calling  in  the  ministry  which 
if  I  honor  and  live  up  to,  makes  of  me  a  special  witness  of  the  Lord  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  I  have  always  been  ready  and  willing  to  go  forth 
among  God's  children  and  testify  of  these  great  truths. 

I  have  a  friend  on  Main  Street  who  is  a  lawyer.  He  said  of  me : 
"Uncle  Golden  seems  to  be  very  desirous  of  checking  out  and  going  on 
to  the  other  side  and  finding  out  if  he  has  told  the  truth."  I  am  here 
today,  not  to  resent  that  statement,  for  it  was  said  in  the  greatest  kind- 
ness and  with  some  humor,  but  I  am  here  before  you  good  people  to  tell 
you  that  I  have  the  same  testimony  that  I  had  fifty  years  ago  when  I 
began  my  ministry.  I  may  not  live  up  to  all  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  I  think  there  are  few  of  us  that  seem  to  be  able  to  do  so, 
but  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  I  can  testify  before  you  in 
humility  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Claude  Richards  printed  a  book,  called  "A  Biography  of  J.  Golden 
Kimball."  I  am  not  here  to  sell  the  book.  I  haven't  got  a  nickel  in  it; 
I  wouldn't  take  a  chance  on  the  investment.  But  you  will  find  forty 
talks  in  that  book  and  it  will  do  you  good  to  read  them  if  you  have  any 
time  to  waste.  When  I  have  felt  blue  and  despondent  I  have  picked  up 
that  book  and  read  it,  and  I  was  somewhat  surprised  at  my  own  testi- 
mony which  I  have  never  failed  to  bear.  I  would  not  do  honor  to  my 
father,  my  sire,  if  I  had  not  faith  enough  to  believe  that  this  is  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.    This  is  God's  church. 

I  met  quite  a  prominent  man  on  the  street — that  is  where  I  generally 
have  my  conversations — and  he  was  "digging"  at  the  Church.  He  was 
wondering  why  we  do  not  have  revelations.  He  was  putting  all  those 
things  up  to  me.  I  said :  "Look  here,  my  friend,  I  want  to  be  kindly  with 
you.  You  haven't  got  the  same  spirit  and  testimony  I  have.  I  still 
retain  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  God  is  our  Father,  the  Creator  of  the  world,  the  Giver  of  all 
good  gifts.  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  am 
willing  for  the  Lord  to  run  this  Church,  but  I  wouldn't  take  a  chance 
on  it  if  you  had  anything  to  do  with  it." 

That  is  the  way  I  feel.  I  sustain  President  Heber  J.  Grant  with 
all  my  heart.  I  seem  to  understand  in  a  way  the  great  responsibility 
that  is  resting  upon  him  and  upon  his  counselors  and  upon  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve. 

I  pray  God  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  that  I  may  never  do  anything, 
in  the  short  space  of  my  life  that  remains,  that  will  show  any  evidence 
that  I  have  lost  my  faith  in  this  Church,  in  this  people,  and  in  the 
general  authorities. 

"raying  God  to  bless  you,  I  am  your  humble  servant,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  should  not  have  felt  at  all  neglected  if  President  Grant  had 
passed  me  by  this  conference,  to  make  place  for  others  whom  we 
should  like  to  hear  from,  and  who  have  not  had  the  opportunities 
that  I  have  always  had  on  these  occasions.  However,  I  welcome 
the  opportunity  to  give  you  a  few  thoughts  which  have  touched 
me  deeply  during  the  conference  and  for  a  long  time  past. 

INTELLIGENCE  REQUIRED  IN  SPIRITUAL  THINGS 

I  believe  that  as  high  an  order  of  intelligence  is  required  to 
understand  and  interpret  the  things  of  the  spirit  as  is  required  to 
comprehend  the  truths  of  science  and  other  secular  matters.  I 
believe  that  accomplishments  and  achievements  in  the  field  of 
religion  are  just  as  worthy  and  commendable  and  great  as  are 
accomplishments  in  the  field  of  science,  in  the  domain  of  business 
and  commerce,  and  in  all  other  worldly  affairs. 

I  also  believe  that  a  great  many  people  in  this  world  do  not 
believe  this  thing.  I  am  convinced  that  the  people  of  the  world 
have  so  deprecated,  in  their  own  estimation,  the  real  place  and 
value  of  the  spiritual  life  and  of  religious  activity  that  they  have 
been  weaned  away  from  allegiance  to  religious  institutions,  spiritual 
concepts,  and  this  great  world  that  is  out  beyond  the  so-called 
natural  world.  To  me  it  is  the  greatest  misfortune  that  can  over- 
take the  human  family,  and  I  believe  that  the  youth  of  our  Church, 
unfortunately,  are  not  free  from  the  influence  of  this  worldly  phil- 
osophy that  has  so  engulfed  the  minds  and  thinking  of  men. 

When  I  contemplate  the  beauties  of  this  great  conference — 
I  have  sat  under  its  spell  now  for  more  than  two  days,  rejoicing  in 
the  good  things  that  we  have  heard,  participating  in  a  spirit  that 
defies  description,  being  renewed  in  faith  and  in  determination  to 
do  my  duty — I  have  thought,  during  all  this  period,  of  those  who 
have  not  been  here. 

WORLDLY  PHILOSOPHIES  AFFECTING  YOUTH 

I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  good  men  whom  I  know,  whose 
acquaintance  I  have  made  as  I  have  been  around  through  the  stakes 
of  Zion.  I  have  seen  good  women  here,  whose  lives  and  endeavors 
are  given  to  the  extension  of  our  worthy  cause ;  I  have  looked  in 
vain  however,  for  the  hordes  of  youth  who  have  not  been  here.  I 
am  very  happy  to  think  that  many  thousands  of  them  are  sym- 
pathetic with  our  work ;  very  happy  indeed  to  know  that  many  are 
willing  to  respond  to  the  calls  that  are  made  of  them,  going  on 
missions,  participating  in  the  organizations  and  agencies  of  the 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


95 


Church,  and  many,  indeed,  are  studying  the  great  principles  of  life 
and  salvation  which  our  organizations  seek  to  teach.  But  I  am  also 
painfully  aware  of  the  fact  that  thousands  upon  thousands  of  them 
have  been  subjected  and  exposed  to  these  worldly  philosophies 
which  deny  the  existence  of  the  spiritual  world. 

Their  education  has  contributed  in  no  small  measure  to  this 
situation,  not  purposely  perhaps,  but  nevertheless  truly,  for  I  have 
but  little  doubt  that  there  are  to  be  found  many  young  men  and 
women  who  have  lost  faith  and  departed  from  the  old  practices  and 
the  old  traditions,  because  those  things  have  not  only  been  omitted 
but  they  have  been  purposely  ignored  and  ofttimes  deprecated  by 
the  educational  systems  and  influences  under  whose  tutelage  the 
youth  have  come. 

INFLUENCE  OF  TEACHERS 

I  do  not  mean  to  impugn  an  express  and  predetermined  pur- 
pose on  the  part  of  many  teachers  in  the  country  to  undermine  the 
faith  of  their  pupils.  I  think  that  relatively  few  would  have  at  heart 
such  a  sinister  purpose.  I  cannot  believe  that  they  would  be  so 
inclined.  But  I  feel  certain  that  in  the  determination  that  is  in  the 
minds  of  that  great  body  of  men  and  women  who  constitute  the 
public  school  system  of  the  country  to  keep  completely  separate,  as 
we  should  always  keep  separate,  church  and  state  affairs,  there  has 
been  the  neglect  of  some  perfectly  legitimate  opportunities  to  foster 
the  best  things  that  can  be  given  to  the  youth  of  America. 

I  have  been  pleased  to  note  that  an  effort  has  been  and  is  being 
made  to  utilize  our  school  system  for  the  teaching  of  character  and 
those  principles  that  go  to  make  for  honesty,  for  virtue,  depend- 
ability, and  other  worth-while  characteristics.  But  I  feel  certain 
that  a  careful  study  and  consideration  of  these  very  items  would 
convince  those  engaged  in  that  endeavor  that  there  is  nothing  so 
potential,  so  effective  for  its  accomplishment  as  to  encourage  the 
youth  to  abide  by  the  faith,  the  time-honored  traditions,  the  morality 
and  the  spirit  of  their  fathers. 

I  believe  that  as  I  make  appeal  to  the  teachers  of  the  country 
to  encourage  their  students  to  keep  open  minds  on  all  these  ques- 
tions that  affect  the  faith  of  their  fathers,  I  not  only  speak  the 
sentiment  of  our  own  Church  but  likewise  the  sentiment  of  all  good 
religious  people  who  seek  to  bring  to  the  youth  of  their  churches 
the  spirit,  the  theology  and  the  traditions  which  they  foster. 

It  is  such  an  easy  thing  to  discourage  faith  in  this  world  of 
materiality,  in  this  world  of  science,  where  we  have  laid  so  much 
emphasis  on  all  the  scientific  processes  and  developments  that  have 
been  so  much  in  evidence  the  last  few  decades.  It  is  so  easy  to 
say  a  word  to  undermine  faith.   I  wish  that  those  who  have  within 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


their  power  the  formation  of  the  views  of  youth,  the  cultivation  of 
their  character,  I  do  wish  that  they  would  be  careful. 

As  a  tax-payer  and  a  supporter  of  the  public  school  system, 
which  I  admire,  which  I  regard  as  one  of  the  greatest  factors  for 
the  civilization  of  the  race,  which  I  have  always  regarded  as  being 
an  essential  constituent  of  a  democracy  and  on  which  my  children 
are  dependent  for  education,  I  have  always  entertained  the  view 
that  there  is  no  right  on  the  part  of  those  to  whom  that  education 
is  entrusted  to  in  any  way  say  one  single  word  or  promote  one 
thought  that  will  tear  down  the  faith  of  my  children  and  lead  them 
from  the  .philosophy  of  faith. 

Now,  our  youth  are  especially  susceptible  to  influences  that 
lead  them  away  from  faith  because,  in  my  opinion,  they  do  not 
always  have  an  adequate  and  proper  understanding  of  the  Gospel 
of  Christ.  Sometimes  I  fear  they  seem  to  feel  so  much  concerned 
about  the  injunctions  and  the  inhibitions  and  the  proscriptions,  that 
they  fail  to  appreciate  the  positive,  beautiful,  life-giving,  joyful 
message  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus. 

SIGNIFICANCE  OF  LAW 

Just  as  President  Clark  has  told  us,  the  laws  that  have  been 
given  to  us  are  inexorable  and  immutable.  We  cannot  change 
them.  We  do  not  want  to  change  them.  No  one  does,  who 
understands  them  in  their  comprehensive  application  to  the  lives  of 
men  and  women  and  the  world.  Only  those  would  do  away  with 
them  who  really  do  not  grasp  their  true  significance. 

I  wish  that  it  were  possible  for  us  to  teach  our  youth  that  all 
the  enduring  satisfactions  they  ma)'  ever  hope  for,  all  the  real  joys 
and  pleasures  of  life,  are  to  be  had  in  pursuance  of  and  not  in 
contravention  of  Gospel  principles.  I  wish  they  could  feel  what 
we  here  feel  today.  I  wish  they  could  know  the  warmth  of  church 
companionship.  I  wish  they  could  feel  the  spirit  that  emanates 
from  on  high  to  mellow  our  hearts,  to  make  us  truly  love  one  an- 
other and  love  God.  I  wish  their  ears  could  be  attuned  to  hear  the 
lovely  things  of  truth,  as  the  ears  of  these  musicians  hear  the 
melodies  and  the  sounds  that  some  of  us  cannot  hear.  If  they 
could  be  made  to  realize  that  these  great  blessings  are  to  be  had 
through  compliance  with  the  laws  of  God,  through  application, 
activity,  diligence  and  loyalty,  I  am  persuaded  that  many  more 
would  now  be  amenable  to  the  influence  of  our  organizations,  many 
more  would  derive  the  joy  and  satisfactions  which  relatively  few 
of  us  enjoy. 

THE  GOSPEL  A  MESSAGE  OF  LOVE 

To  that  end  I  think  that  a  great  obligation  rests  upon  you  men 
and  women  to  carry  the  message  in  its  beauty,  in  its  appeal,  in  its 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


97 


invitation, — the  message  of  Christ  to  those  who  have  not  received 
it,  even  among-  our  own. 

I  never  regard  the  message  of  Christ  as  being  harsh.  Some- 
times it  sounds  a  little  harsh  and  rigorous,  but  I  never  regard  it  as 
being  harsh.  I  always  regard  the  message  of  Christ  as  being 
kindly,  persuasive,  forgiving  and  loving.  I  can't  picture  our  Lord 
and  Savior  in  any  atmosphere  other  than  that  of  love  and  kind- 
ness. I  have  always  regarded  the  condemnations  and  penalties  of 
which  we  sometimes  speak  as  being  largely  in  the  nature  of  depri- 
vations and  retardations  in  our  progress,  for  we  are  told,  in  what 
seems  to  me  to  be  the  very  genius  of  the  Gospel  according  to 
modern  revelation — in  the  vision  of  the  glories — that  every  one  is 
to  receive  even  more  than  he  anticipates,  but  that  the  highest  and 
the  most  perfect  and  the  lovely  blessings  of  the  future  are  in  store 
for  those  who  live  the  Christly  life  upon  which  those  blessings  are 
predicated. 

So  I  would  make  the  Gospel  inviting  if  I  could.  I  would  not 
moderate  any  of  our  standards,  but  I  would,  if  I  could,  make  all 
the  youth  know  that  there  is  no  happiness  except  in  goodness,  and 
that  the  way  to  trouble  is  through  sin. 

God  help  us  to  give  the  true  message  of  Jesus  Christ  to  those 
who  are  not  here,  to  the  children  we  love,  without  whom  we  cannot 
be  happy  when  our  associations  are  renewed  in  the  life  to  come, 
Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  us, 
O  thou  great  Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 
■ 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

CHANGELESS  TRUTHS  IN  A  CHANGING  WORLD 

Commenting  upon  the  unjustifiable  attempts  of  strong  nations  to 
subdue  weaker  nations,  one  of  our  leading  popular  contributors  to  syndi- 
cated newspapers  said  yesterday: 

Out  of  all  history  you  will  find  but  one  world  conqueror  who  came 
with  clean  hands,  and  those  hands  the  soldiers  pierced  with  iron  spikes 
as  they  nailed  the  Nazarene  to  the  cross. 

It  was  this  same  clean  world  conqueror  who  said: 

Therefore,  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them, 
I  will  liken  unto  a  wise  man  *  *  * ;  and  whosoever  heareth  these  sayings 
of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not,  I  will  liken  unto  a  foolish  man. 

We  are  living  in  a  changing  world,  and  some  of  us  are  becoming 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


somewhat  confused  by  the  accumulation  of  theories,  suggestions,  pro- 
posals and  the  expressions  of  doubts  that  seem  to  be  filling  the  air. 

Recently  I  overheard  some  young  men  talking  about  the  results  of 
infractions  of  the  moral  law,  and  one  of  them  expressed  this  sentiment : 
"I  think  we  must  take  a  broad  view  of  this  matter  and  look  at  these 
things  in  the  light  of  the  year  1935."  I  cite  his  remark  merely  because 
I  think  it  is  the  expression  of  an  attitude  which  has  more  or  less  general 
acceptance.  I  answered  him  quietly :  "If  you  put  your  finger  in  the  fire 
will  the  burn  be  any  less  intense  in  1935  than  it  was  in  1835  ?"  The  law 
of  compensation  and  the  law  of  retribution  are  eternally  operating. 

As  every  thinking  person  knows,  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  are  just  as  applicable  to  the  conditions  of  the  world  today 
as  they  have  ever  been  in  the  history  of  mankind.  Today,  perhaps,  as 
seldom  if  ever  before  the  rock  foundation  built  upon  Christ's  teachings 
is  needed  in  the  political  as  well  as  in  moral  and  spiritual  realms.  Men 
and  women  are  being  swept  from  their  old  moorings  by  unsound  theories 
and  untried  schemes,  but  before  abandoning  tried  principles  for  seem- 
ingly attractive  theories,  they  would  do  well  first  to  sink  their  shafts 
deeper  in  search  of  the  bed-rock  of  truth.  The  sooner  this  theory-smit- 
ten world  gets  on  a  sure  foundation,  the  better  it  will  be  for  humanity. 

A  GLORIOUS  AGE 

Now,  please  do  not  think  me  a  pessimist.  I  love  life.  I  think  it  is  a 
joy  to  live  in  this  age.  Every  morning,  as  I  greet  the  sun  as  he  ushers 
in  these  unexcelled  autumn  days,  I  feel  the  joy  of  living.  I  realize 
the  accomplishments,  to  a  certain  degree,  of  this  wonderful  mechanistic 
age.  Today  time  and  distance  are  practically  annihilated.  Fifty  years 
ago  neighbors  fifty  miles  apart  were  comparatively  strangers.  Today 
you  can  go  to  your  telephone  and  in  a  few  minutes  talk  to  a  friend 
seven  thousand  miles  away.  When  Charles  Lindbergh  reached  the 
American  Embassy  in  Paris,  after  having  flown  from  New  York  to 
Paris  in  thirty-six  hours,  he  went  to  the  telephone  and  within  an  hour 
told  his  mother  that  he  had  reached  his  destination  in  safety.  If  we 
were  in  tune  at  this  moment  we  could  hear  Big  Ben  striking  over 
Westminster  Abbey. 

Millions  of  people  in  the  world  heard  Admiral  Byrd  at  the  South 
Pole.  Men  are  penetrating  the  stratosphere,  and  hoping  for  the  nearby 
day  when  they  will  eat  breakfast  in  New  York  and  luncheon  in  Paris. 

THREATENING  DANGERS 

Yes,  it  is  a  glorious  age  in  which  we  live,  but  no  thinking  man  will 
doubt  that  this  age  is  fraught  with  limitless  perils  as  well  as  with 
untold  possibilities.  It  is  because  of  threatening  dangers  that  the  world 
should  become  anchored  in  the  eternal  truths  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
realize  that  there  are  eternal  verities  in  this  changing  world.  "Today, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY  99 

as  seldom  before,"  writes  Dr.  Haydn,  "human  society  is  threatened  with 
disintegration,  if  not  complete  chaos.  All  the  ancient  evils  of  human 
relationships,  injustice,  selfishness,  abuse  of  strength,  become  sinister 
and  terrible  when  reinforced  by  the  vast  increase  of  material  power. 
The  soul  of  man  cowers,  starved  and  fearful  in  the  midst  of  a  civiliza- 
tion grown  too  complex  for  any  mind  to  visualize  or  control." 

And  Charles  Foster  Kent,  commenting  upon  the  "chaotic  state,"  of 
our  civilized  world  says : 

Political  organizations  and  ideals  that  have  both  fortified  and  handi- 
capped us  have  been  thrown  into  the  discard.  Long  accepted  social 
theories  have  suddenly  been  rejected,  and  new  ones  are  being  adopted. 
Many  of  the  moral  standards  of  our  fathers  are  being  set  aside  in  theory 
as  well  as  in  practice.  The  rising  generation  has  no  fear  and  little 
respect  for  elders.  The  elders,  recognizing  what  a  wreck  they  have  made 
of  civilization,  question  their  own  infallibility.  Religious  dogmas,  long 
regarded  as  the  corner  stones  of  religion  and  the  church,  are  being  dis- 
proved' or  supplanted  by  the  discoveries  of  modern  science.  It  is  not 
strange,  that  the  majority  of  the  men  and  women  in  this  war-shattered 
world  are  unhappy,  because  they  feel  the  foundations  beneath  them  are 
tottering. 

I  think  the  realization  of  the  position  of  our  so-called  civilized 
countries  may  be  deeply  sensed  when  I  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that 
at  this  moment,  while  we  are  here  worshipping,  if  we  could  tune  in 
properly  we  could  hear  the  guns  booming  that  are  now  blasting  out 
the  lives  of  young  men,  old  men,  women  and  children  in  Ethiopia. 

MORAL  IDEALS  AND  SPIRITUAL  TEACHINGS  LACKING 

The  world  needs  fundamentals,  eternal  verities  that  never  change. 
They  need  to  adopt  the  teachings  of  the  man  into  whose  hands  the 
soldiers  drove  the  iron  spikes,  "the  only  world  conqueror  who  came 
with  clean  hands." 

Commenting  upon  world  conditions  that  cry  out  for  something 
better  and  more  definitely  uplifting,  J.  William  Hudson,  Professor  of 
Philosophy,  University  of  Missouri,  says : 

The  very  heart  of  the  .present  unrest  in  America  is  not  merely  of 
unrest  of  dissatisfied  wants.   It  is  that  much  more  serious  thing,  the  unrest 
of  not  knowing  what  is  wanted.    It  is  the  unrest  of  the  man  who  craves 
something  to  satisfy  his  palate,  but  knows  not  just  what  it  is  he  craves.  _ 
The  appetite  is  normal  enough.    It  simply  has  not  defined  itself  sufficiently.  ' 

And  another,  commenting  on  the  same  condition,  says: 

The  standards  of  the  home,  even  the  criteria  for  the  rearing  of  chil- 
dren have  broken  down.  The  leisure  occupations  of  youth,  always  symp- 
tomatic in  any  age,  are  not  only  unguidedly  and  frankly  hedonistic,  but 
across  the  borders  of  what  was  once  considered  decorous,  not  because 
of  a  new  and  liberalizing  moral  standard,  as  we  sometimes  pretended, 
but  because  of  the  lack  of  any.  The  popularity  of  certain  recent  dances, 
formerly  forbidden  even  in  the  "red-light"  districts,  is  typical.   So  is  much 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  our  periodical  reading  matter,  and  any  number  of  movie  plays,  over 
the  edge  of  the  decadently  errotic,  with  a  censorship  that  does  not  censor 
because  of  moral  and  financial  doubt. 

He  mentions  the  fact  that  dishonesty  is  permeating  public  and 
private  life  alike,  tainting  the  administration  of  justice,  tainting  our 
legislative  halls,  tainting  the  conduct  of  private  business,  polluting  at 
times  even  the  church  itself.  In  the  same  utterance  he  averred  that  a 
source  of  infinite  evil  in  every  modern  society  is  impurity  of  word  and 
act. 

He  goes  on  to  assert  that  "if  there  is  to  be  social  and  political 
regeneration  in  the  republic  and  in  the  rest  of  the  world,  it  must  be  by 
tremendous  regeneration  of  moral  ideals." 

What  are  the  moral  ideals  and  the  spiritual  teachings  of  the  Man 
of  Nazareth?  Down  through  the  centuries  there  have  come  ringing 
these  words : 

I  am  the  light  of  the  world :  he  that  followeth  me  shall  not  walk  in  . 
darkness,  but  shall  have  the  light  of  life. 

Do  Christians  really  believe  this  ?  If  so,  they  are  hearing  his  other 
ringing  words  : 

Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his  righteousness ;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you. 

His  teachings  are  simple,  and  sometimes  they  seem  so  simple  that 
we  toss  them  aside. 

FUNDAMENTALS  TAUGHT  BY  JESUS 

Last  evening  I  had  the  privilege  of  calling  attention  of  the  Priest- 
hood to  the  little  simple  principle  of  kindness.  That  is  a  principle  the 
world  lacks.  We  rather  go  to  backbiting,  talebearing,  gossiping,  and  in 
some  cases  lying  about  one  another.  All  these  are  un-Christlike,  un- 
christian. They  spring  from  the  source  mentioned  by  President  Clark, 
the  power  that  is  seeking  to  destroy  Christ's  principles  and  Christ's 
church. 

The  principles  of  honesty,  just  simple  honesty,  and  fair  dealing  are 
fundamental  principles  that  never  change. 

THE  EXISTENCE  OF  A  PERSONAL  GOD 

But  there  are  other  comprehensive  principles  to  which  I  wish  to 
call  your  attention.  The  first  fundamental  truth  advocated  by  Jesus 
Christ  was  this,  that  behind,  above  and  over  all  there  is  God  the  Father, 
Lord  of  heaven  and  earth.  This  universe,  therefore  is  not  left  to  the 
guidance  of  an  irrational,  random  chance,  but  on  the  contrary  is  ordered 
and  controlled  by  a  marvelous  intelligence  and  wisdom. 

Because  Science  says  to  you  young  men  that  it  has  not  found  a 
divine,  personal  Being,  nor  the  soul  of  man,  are  you  justified  in  con- 
cluding that  these  realities  do  not  exist  ?  "There  is  not  a  single  scientific 
specialist  of  repute,"  says  Dr.  Hudson,  "who  has  attempted  to  prove  by 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


101 


scientific  method  that  what  science  cannot  demonstrate  is  thereby  dis- 
proved." On  the  contrary,  hear  ringing  these  glorious  words  :  "God  and 
the  unseen  world  are  not  merely  objects  of  surmise.  We  know  them  in 
experience." 

Far  more  direct  and  impressive  are  the  words  of  the  one  in  this 
dispensation  who  saw  God  and  His  Son : 

When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  personages,  whose  bright- 
ness and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of 
them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by  name,  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other : 
"This  is  my  beloved  Son.   Hear  him." 

There  is  an  unchanging  truth  in  an  unchanging  world,  that  should 
be  an  anchor  to  the  soul  of  every  person  in  it. 

SACREDNESS  OF  HUMAN  PERSONALITY 

A  second  I  am  going  to  name  is  the  sacredness  of  personality.  The 
least  child  was  sacred  to  Jesus.  "It  is  not  the  will  of  your  Father  in 
heaven  that  one  of  these  little  ones  should  perish."  That  simple  truth  in 
the  world,  what  would  it  mean? 

Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these,  my 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me. 

And  in  this  modern  day  he  said : 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great. 

A  proper  conception  of  this  divine  principle  would  change  the 
attitude  of  the  world,  to  the  benefit  and  happiness  of  all  human  beings. 
It  would  bring  into  active  operation  the  Golden  Rule :  "Do  unto  others 
as  you  would  have  others  do  unto  you." 

What  a  different  world  this  were  if  men  would  accumulate  wealth, 
for  example,  not  as  an  end  but  as  a  means  of  blessing  human  beings  and 
improving  human  relations.  A  Christian  conception  of  the  right  and 
value  of  a  human  soul,  even  though  his  skin  be  dark,  would  have  pre- 
vented, the  slaughter  that  at  this  moment  is  being  perpetrated  in  Ethiopia. 

SPIRITUAL  COMMUNION  A  REALITY 

And  a  third  fundamental  truth  is  this,  that  direct  communion  be- 
tween the  Spirit  of  God  and  the  spirit  of  men  may  be  a  reality.  With  all 
my  soul  I  echo  the  appeal  of  my  brother,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  that  we 
may  lead  the  youth  into  that  realm  in  which  they  will  sense  that  com- 
munion. The  promise  of  the  Lord  to  his  apostles  is  a  reality: 

I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  Comforter,  that 
he  may  abide  with  you  for  ever. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  when  the  Comforter  is  come,  whom  I  will  send  unto  you  from 
the  Father,  even  the  spirit  of  truth,  which  proceedeth  from  the  Father, 
he  shall  testify  of  me. 

And  again : 

Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,  for  they  shall  see  God. 

Who  are  the  pure  in  heart  ?  Those  who  let  no  selfishness  or  hatred 
or  vile  thought  becloud  their  spiritual  vision.  ■ 

FREE  AGENCY 

And  the  fourth  is  this,  that  man  has  the  inherent  power  to  do  right 
or  to  do  wrong.  In  this  he  has  his  free  agency,  to  choose  the  right  and 
obtain  salvation,  or  he  may  choose  evil  and  learn  abominations. 

These  are  eternal  verities,  as  applicable  in  the  year  1935  as  they  were 
when  Jesus  first  promulgated  them,  and  they  will  remain  fundamental 
and  essential  elements  in  man's  progress  and  happiness  as  long  as  life 
and  being  last. 

Associated  with  these  are  eternal  truths  that  constitute  the  plan  of 
salvation ;  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly 
kindness,  godliness,  charity ;  "For  if  these  things,"  we  are  told,  "be  in 
you  and  abound,  they  leave  you  that  you  shall  be  neither  barren  nor  un- 
fruitful in  a  knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  To  know  whom,  and 
God  the  Father,  is  eternal  life." — man's  greatest  blessing. 

In  the  questioning  days  of  early  boyhood  I  first  felt  a  kinship  with 
Christ,  our  Lord  and  Savior.  I  know  his  love  and  his  divine  guidance. 
He  is  the  sinless  Son  of  Man.  "He  is  the  first  and  the  last  and  is  alive 
forevermore."  Only  by  obedience  to  his  teachings  can  man  find  happi- 
ness and  peace.  Truly  whosoever  heareth  his  sayings  and  doeth  them 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  wise  man  who  built  his  house  upon  a  rock ;  and 
the  rain  descended  and  the  floods  came  and  the  winds  blew  and  beat 
upon  that  house ;  but  it  fell  not ;  for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

God  help  us  all  to  walk  in  the  light  as  he  is  in  the  light,  and  thereby 
avoiding  the  unhappiness,  sinfulness  and  misery  of  a  misguided  world, 
find  joy  and  peace  and  beauteous  life  here  in  this  probation  and  in  the 
life  to  come,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  believe  that  for  the  first  time  in  my  administration  as  the  President 
of  the  Church  I  shall  occupy  the  remaining  time.  One  reason  that  I  do 
this  is  because  there  are  about  twice  as  many  people  here  today  as  there 
were  when  I  delivered  my  address  Friday  morning. 

SHOULD  NOT  DISCOURAGE  BELIEF  IN  BIBLE 

I  want  to  say  that  I  know,  from  personal  testimony  to  me,  that  in 
the  University  that  I  have  contributed  of  my  means  to  assist  in  its  sup- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


103 


port,  some  teachers  have  been  guilty  of  asking  questions  that  they  have 
no  business  to  ask.  Men  who  are  drawing  salaries  are  asking  questions 
that  create  a  disbelief  in  the  Bible.  If  they  would  just  control  their 
tongues  and  teach  what  they  are  paid  to  teach,  I  for  one  would  be  grateful 
to  them.  When  teachers  stand  before  their  classes  and  ask  students  to 
hold  up  their  hands  in  answer  to  a  question  whether  they  believe  some- 
thing that  is  in  the  Bible,  such  instructors  are  doing  that  which  I  think 
they  should  refrain  from  doing,  because  that  is  not  what  they  are  paid 
for.  Let  the  Bible  alone,  and  not  attempt  to  get  a  "ha-ha"  out  of  those 
who  do  not  believe  its  teachings. 

THE  BIBLE  IS  WHAT  IT  PURPORTS  TO  BE 

In  my  youth  I  read  a  book  entitled,  "The  Cause  and  Cure  of  Infi- 
delity," and  I  became  converted,  beyond  a  shadow  of  a  doubt,  that  the 
Bible  is  exactly  what  it  purports  to  be.  The  man  who  wrote  the  book 
sperit  eighteen  years  of  his  life  trying  to  turn  people  from  infidelity  to  a 
belief  in  the  Bible,  and  he  announced  that  at  the  end  of  that  time,  with 
two  exceptions,  he  had  converted  to  a  belief  in  the  divine  authenticity  of 
the  Bible  all  who  would  read  eight  books  that  he  would  place  in  their 
hands,  and  read  them  twice.  One  of  the  exceptions  was  a  lawyer  who 
said,  "If  I  were  a  juryman  and  had  taken  an  oath  to  render  a  verdict 
according  to  the  evidence,  I  would  have  to  say  that  the  point  was  proven." 
Dr.  Nelson  said :  "Whether  he  continued  his  studies  or  not  I  do  not  know, 
because  he  subsequently  lost  his  mind." 

The  other  man  whom  he  failed  to  convert  was  a  young  man  who 
came  to  him  with  a  serious  face  and  said :  "Dr.  Nelson,  I  acknowledge 
freely  and  fairly  that  every  argument  that  I  ever  raised  against  the  Bible 
as  being  from  God  has  been  met  and  answered  and  fairly  overturned  by 
the  books  that  you  have  placed  in  my  hands.  Furthermore,  I  do  acknowl- 
edge that  I  have  found  arguments  so  strong  and  so  momentous  in  favor 
of  the  divine  authenticity  of  the  Bible  that  I  am  una.ble  to  meet  or  to 
answer  them,  and  yet  I  do  not  and  cannot  believe  in  the  Bible." 

If  they  read  them  only  once,  they  became  greater  infidels  generally 
than  they  were  before,  because  they  found  many  arguments  against  the 
Bible  that  they  had  never  heard  before  and  they  accepted  them. 

Richard  W.  Young  (who  was  my  nearest  and  dearest  friend)  and  I 
listened  to  a  half  dozen  lectures,  as  I  remember,  by  David  McKenzie,  a 
returned  missionary  from  Scotland,  first  in  one  ward  and  then  in  an- 
other ;  we  followed  him  around.  In  his  concluding  lecture  he  said :  "Now, 
if  you  want  to  know  more  about  the  things  concerning  which  I  have  been 
talking  to  you,  buy  Nelson's  book,  'The  Cause  and  Cure  of  Infidelity.' 
All  that  I  have  said  I  learned  out  of  that  book,  and  you  will  find  a  whole 
lot  more  than  I  have  said." 

Not  only  did  we  hear  the  lectures,  but  we  read  the  book  aloud 
twice,  taking  turns  in  reading,  and  there  came  into  my  heart,  into  the 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


eternal  part  of  me  that  will  live  on  after  those  who  ridicule  the  Bible  are 
dead  and  buried,  an  assurance  that  that  book  is  just  exactly  what  it  pur- 
ports to  be,  and  that  prophecies  recorded  in  it  uttered  hundreds  of  years 
before  their  fulfilment  have  come  to  pass. 

THE  GOSPEL  HERE  TO  STAY 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  referred  to 
in  prophecy  centuries  ago.  It  was  stated  that  "in  the  last  days  the  moun- 
tain of  the  Lord's  house  should  be  established  in  the  tops  of  the  moun- 
tains," and  here  it  is,  and  it  is  here  to  stay.  The  promise  has  been  made 
that  it  shall  not  be  given  to  another  people.  That  promise  was  never 
made  regarding  any  other  dispensation  of  the  Gospel. 

We  do  not  need  to  fear,  but  I  do  complain  absolutely  against  any 
teacher  who  says  to  his  class :  "You  have  always  had  a  prayer  here  in  the 
past.  If  we  knew  there  is  somebody  to  pray  to,  we  would  have  a  prayer 
in  the  future,  but  as  we  do  not  know,  we  will  not  pray."  All  I  ask  of  him 
is  that  he  just  keep  his  mouth  shut  and  not  pray. 

FORMERLY  ABSURDITIES,  NOW  DEMONSTRATED  FACTS 

They  talk  about  not  teaching  infidelity — they  teach  it  by  asking  such 
a  question  as:  "Do  you  believe  in  the  flood?"  I  do,  and  I  have  no  doubt 
of  it.  There  is  no  need  of  any  such  question.  Just  be  honest.  And  it  is 
not  honest  to  draw  money  to  teach  people  that  which  we  are  not  asked  to 
teach,  and  that  which  is  calculated  to  destroy  faith,  just  as  was  the  case 
with  the  doctor  who  ridiculed  me  for  believing  that  there  were  cement 
buildings  in  the  early  days  among  the  Nephites.  Ridiculous !  Absurd ! 
But  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  that  absurdity  has  been  demonstrated 
to  be  a  fact.  He  ridiculed  me  for  believing  that  the  voice  of  Jesus  was 
heard  all  over  the  land.  "You  know  that  is  a  lie,  young  man,"  said  he, 
"because  if  you  get  up  on  top  of  a  house  and  shout,  your  voice  can  be 
heard  only  a  short  distance."  Thank  God  I  have  heard  the  voice  of 
Admiral  Byrd  all  the  way  from  the  South  Pole !  Thank  the  Lord  for 
demonstrating  thousands  of  things  that  used  to  be  ridiculed  by  the  infidel ! 

God  lives.  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  The 
Bible  teaches  that  he  should  come  and  that  he  should  be  the  Redeemer, 
and  it  teaches  that  his  Gospel  should  be  established  in  the  last  days.  And 
that  Gospel  is  here,  and  we  defy  all  the  professors  that  walk  the  earth  to 
change  it. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  ye 
mountains  high." 

Elder  Franklin  S.  Harris,  President  of  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity, offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


THIRD  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock 
p.  m.,  Sunday,  April  6. 

Once  more  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  and  thou- 
sands of  people  congregated  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle 
grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  proceedings  of  the  meeting  as  they 
were  broadcast  by  radio  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  rendered  the  music  for  this  session. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in 
the  day  of  salvation." 

Elder  Leo  J.  Muir,  President  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

An  anthem,  "God  of  Israel"  (Stephens),  was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  PvUDGER  CLAWSON 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  looking  into  the  faces  of  a  multitude  of  people.  This  great 
tabernacle  is  crowded  to  the  limit,  every  seat  is  taken  and  many  are 
standing.  I  sympathize  with  those  who  are  standing.  Assembled  here 
is  a  representative  body  of  the  membership  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints — people  from  114  stakes  of  Zion,  and  among  them 
presidencies  of  stakes,  high  councilors,  bishoprics  of  wards,  presidencies 
of  quorums  of  priesthood  and  of  auxiliary  organizations. 

When  I  came  into  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  thirty-six  years  ago, 
there  were  less  than  fifty  stakes  of  Zion.  Today  there  are  114  stakes. 
Verily  Zion  is  growing. 

MUSIC  APPRECIATED 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  spirit  of  this 
conference,  with  the  splendid  singing  we  have  heard  all  through,  and 
now,  today,  the  singing  of  the  great  Tabernacle  Choir.  To  me  it  is  mar- 
velous and  inspiring. 

Pardon  me  if  I  digress  just  a  moment  to  speak  a  word  of  praise  for 
the  fine  work  accomplished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction 
of  Professor  Albert  J.  Southwick,  at  the  San  Diego  Fair.  It  wasn't  my 
good  fortune  to  be  there,  but  I  have  read  about  it  in  the  newspapers 
and  heard  it  mentioned  by  a  number  of  people  and  know  that  they  ac- 
complished a  great  and  a  good  work. 

OPERATION  OF  LAWS  INESCAPABLE 

I  was  thrilled  with  the  testimony  and  exhortation  of  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  in  the  opening  address  of  this  conference  and  with  that  which 


* 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


was  said  in  all  of  the  addresses  that  have  been  delivered  thus  far. 
We  have  had  quite  a  variety  of  instructions  but  they  have  all  been  ap- 
propriate and  fitted  together  very  beautifully.  President  Clark  rather 
emphatically  emphasized  the  power  and  influence  of  law,  saying  that 
we  are  living  under  a  reign  of  law.  How  true  that  is !  Wherever  we 
go,  or  whichever  way  we  turn,  we  are  confronted  by  the  glorious  prin- 
ciple of  law.  Throughout  the  Church,  in  all  the  stakes  and  wards  of 
Zion  you  will  meet  it.  As  citizens  of  our  great  American  republic,  of 
Utah,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  all  the  other  cities  in  the  land  you  will  be 
confronted  by  the  operation  of  law.  We  cannot  escape  it.  From  the 
moment  we  are  born  until  we  die  we  will  be  under  the  influence  of  law. 

LAW  OF  FINANCE 

Let  me  remind  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
are  a  practical  people.  If  it  is  said  that  they  have  to  do  with  spiritual 
things  it  may  be  said  with  equal  truth  that  they  also  have  to  do  with 
temporal  things.  The  line  that  divides  the  temporal  from  the  spiritual — ■ 
if  such  a  line  there  be — has  never  been  discovered.  And  as  touching 
the  temporal,  in  the  beginning  of  this  work  the  Lord  foresaw  with  clear 
vision  that  his  Church  could  not  be  restored  upon  the  earth  and  built 
up  upon  this  land  except  by  and  under  the  principle  of  law,  for  indeed 
he  gave  to  the  Church  two  great  and  important  laws, — the  law  of  Finance 
and  the  law  of  Health.  Great  and  important  as  is  the  law  of  finance, 
or  tithing,  as  we  call  it,  it  was  given  in  brevity  and  couched  in  terms  so 
simple  that  even  a  child  could  comprehend  it.  The  language  of  the  law  is, 
in  part,  as  follows : 

And  they  [meaning  the  Latter-day  Saints]  shall  pay  one-tenth  of 
all  their  interest  annually;  and  this  shall  be  a  standing  iaw  unto  them 
forever,  for  my  holy  priesthood,  saith  the  Lord. 

Very  simple,  very  direct,  very  much  to  the  point.  The  observance 
of  this  law  of  finance  has  in  many  instances  brought  temporaf  salvation 
to  the  Church.  In  times  of  prosperity?  Yes.  In  times  ot  panic  and 
depression?  Yes.  It  is  in  constant  operation  under  all  conditions.  It 
never  ceases,  because  it  is  to  be  a  standing  law  to  the  Church  forever, 
and  there  is  something  of  spirituality  in  that  thought  too.  Any  member 
of  the  Church  who  has  an  income  and  refuses  to  pay  his  tithing  is  not 
loyal  to  the  cause.  The  Lord  plainly  says  also  in  connection  with  this 
important  law  that  it  is  by  and  through  this  law  that  the  land  ot  Zion 
is  to  be  sanctified.  And  should  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
fail  to  observe  it,  it  would  not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  them. 

Now  this  law,  upon  investigation,  has  elicited  the  admiration  of 
many  Christian  churches  and  some  pastors  have  desired  to  introduce 
it  into  their  communities,  but  for  some  reason  they  cannot  succeed ;  they 
do  not  seem  to  be  able  to  do  it,  from  a  lack  perhaps  of  union  and  cohesion. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  we  should  regard  it  as  a  privilege  as  well  as  a  duty 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


107 


to  ^observe  this  holy  commandment.  The  best  time  to  pay  tithing  is 
when  revenue  comes  into  our  hands,  whether  by  the  week,  or  the  month, 
or  the  season.  Then  we  will  be  very  happy  at  the  end  of  the  year  to 
find  that  our  tithing  is  paid  and  that  our  credit  with  the  Lord  is  not 
impaired. 

RELIEF  FROM  BONDAGE  OF  DEBT 

Let  me  beseech  of  you,  brethren  and  sisters  of  this  great  congrega- 
tion and  of  the  Church,  do  not  forget  the  Lord  and  the  Lord  will  not 
forget  you.  I  apprehend  that  there  are  perhaps  many  in  this  congre- 
gation, and  many  throughout  the  Church,  who  would  like  to  be  relieved 
of  the  bondage  of  debt,  for  it  exerts  a  terrible  pressure  upon  many 
people.  All  we  have  to  say  in  that  respect  is,  pay  an  honest  tithing  to  the 
Lord,  punctually  and  regularly,  and  he  will  bless  you  and  help  you  get 
out  of  debt,  and  if  that  occurs,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  say  in  the 
language  of  the  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  "Keep  out  of  debt." 

I  have  been  in  debt  myself,  and  I  am  now  out  of  debt,  thank  the 
Lord,  and  I  wish  to  assure  you  that  it  brings  a  very  comfortable  feeling 
and  is  a  happy  condition  to  be  in. 

THE  LAW  OF  HEALTH 

Now  in  respect  to  the  Law  of  Health.  Is  it  not  wonderful  that 
the  Lord  was  so  thoughtful  in  the  beginning  as  to  consider  the  import- 
ance of  the  health  of  his  people.  It  appears  that  he  looked  ahead  and 
with  his  prophetic  eye  saw  that  there  was  danger,  and  consequently  in 
his  great  mercy  he  gave  to  us  the  law  of  health.  We  have  already  heard 
during  the  conference  some  things  in  regard  to  this  law,  but  many  of 
you  were  not  present.  I  will  now  repeat  a  paragraph  from  a  revelation 
on  the  Word  of  Wisdom  mentioned  by  President  Grant  in  his  address, 
which  is  as  follows : 

Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in 
the  last  days,  I  have  warned  you  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you 
this  word  of  wisdom  by  revelation. 

Then  it  was  that  the  Lord  declared  the  nature  of  this  law  and  the 
requirements  that  are  made  by  it,  and  said  that  strong  drinks  are  not 
for  the  use  of  man,  but  for  the  washing  of  the  body;  and  that  hot 
drinks — meaning  tea  and  coffee — are  not  for  the  body  nor  the  belly. 
Further,  that  tobacco  is  not  good  for  man,  neither  for  his  body  nor  his 
belly.  The  Lord  also  points  out  the  things  that  are  good  for  man,  but 
not  all  of  them.  And  in  respect  to  these  things  that  are  pronounced  as 
being  evil,  he  does  not  tell  us  in  the  revelation  why  there  is  evil  in 
them,  but  time  has  determined  this  question.  Scientific  men  have  told 
us  that  in  tobacco  there  is  a  deadly  poison,  and  in  tea  there  is  a  poison 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


called  tannin,  in  coffee  a  poison  called  caffeine.  And  we  know  that  such 
must  be  the  case,  because  these  forbidden  things  are  really  and  sub- 
stantially narcotics,  arid  a  narcotic  is  something  that  is  habit-forming. 
The  things  that  are  good  for  us  are  not  habit-forming.  We  can  take 
them  up  or  put  them  down,  but  these  bad  habits  very  often  and  in  most 
cases  become  masters  of  men ;  the  habit  is  greater  and  stronger  it  ap- 
pears than  the  individual. 

WOMEN  SMOKE  PUBLICLY 

One  very  serious  phase  of  this  matter  relating  to  the  use  of  tobacco 
is  the  fact  that  women  and  young  girls  are  taking  up  the  habit  through- 
out the  nation,  and  may  I  say  throughout  the  world,  it  is  marvelous 
how  rapidly  the  practice  has  spread,  and  it  is  a  most  serious  thing  for 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  consider.  Whenever  you  go  in  the  world  at 
large,  in  the  hotels,  in  the  eating  places,  in  the  theatres,  and  in  the  lobbies 
of  ballrooms  you  will  find  women  joining  with  men  in  smoking  tobacco. 
And  might  I  be  pardoned  if  I  take  just  a  moment  to  call  your  attention 
to  the.  evil  effects  of  tobacco,  because  of  these  poisons  that  I  have 
mentioned,  the  tobacco  poison  is  the  most  dangerous.  It  is  called  nicotine 
and  is  a  deadly  poison. 

A  LADY  MISSIONARY'S  INFLUENCE 

I  might  here  remark  that  one  of  the  mission  presidents  reported  in 
our  meeting  with  the  mission  presidents  Wednesday  that  in  one  of  the 
cities  of  his  mission  a  lady  missionary  was  conducting  an  M.  I.  A.  class 
with  a  membership  of  some  eight  young  men  not  members  of  the  Church, 
and  they  appeared  to  be  very  enthusiastic  in  the  study.  They  greatly 
appreciated  the  opportunity  and  thought  it  was  wonderful  what  was 
being  done  by  that  young  woman  from  Zion.    One  of  them  said  to  her: 

"We  understand  that  your  Church  counsels  its  members  against 
the  use  of  tobacco.    Is  that  true  ?" 

She  said:    "Yes,  that  is  true." 

They  then  said:  "All  of  us  use  tobacco,  but  we  wish  you  would 
help  us  to  overcome  the  habit." 

And  she  helped  them  by  referring  them  to  the  law  of  health,  or 
Word  of  Wisdom  of  our  Church,  and  it  was  reported  that  they  are  suc- 
ceeding in  their  effort  to  overcome  the  habit.  Let  me  again  call  to 
your  attention  that  these  young  men  were  non-Mormons.  Think  of  it, 
reflect  upon  it. 

NOTED  OUTSIDERS'  VIEWS  ON  SMOKING 

In  New  York  City  a  certain  magistrate  said  emphatically :  "Ninety- 
nine  out  of  one  hundred  boys  between  the  ages  of  10  and  17  who  have 
come  before  me  charged  with  crime  have  their  fingers  disfigured  with 
yellow  cigarette  stains." 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


109 


This  is  what  the  famous  Dr.  Jordan  says:  "The  boy  who  begins 
cigarette  smoking  never  enters  the  life  of  the  world.  When  other  boys 
are  taking  hold  of  the  world's  work  he  is  concerned  with  the  sexton  and 
undertaker." 

A  thirteen-year  old  boy,  who  looked  to  be  about  nine,  was  taken 
to  a  hospital  for  treatment.  He  was  stunted  physically,  mentally  and 
morally,  and  the  nurse  in  pity  asked,  "Who  taught  you  to  smoke  ?" 

"My  brother." 

"He  should  be  in  jail." 

"He  is,"  replied  the  lad. 

Elbert  Hubbard  went  down  in  the  sea  on  the  great  ship  Lusitania. 
He  said :  "Never  advance  the  pay  of  a  cigarette  smoker ;  never  promote 
him;  never  depend  on  him;  never  again  will  he  be  as  much  of  a  man 
as  he  is  now.   His  future  lies  behind  him." 

Thomas  A.  Edison :  "No  man  or  boy  who  smokes  cigarettes  can 
work  in  my  laboratory.  There  are  enough  degenerates  in  the  world  with- 
out manufacturing  more  by  means  of  cigarettes." 

Dr.  Mayo :  "I  do  not  smoke,  do  not  approve  of  smoking,  the  ablest 
surgeons,  men  at  the  top,  do  not  smoke." 

Dr.  Kellogg  was  consulted  by  a  man  suffering  from  a  bad  case  of 
tobacco  heart.  He  said  :  "Brother,  you  must  help  me,  I  have  just  opened 
business,  have  thousands  of  dollars  of  my  friends'  money  invested,  and 
must  make  good."  The  doctor  informed  him  that  it  was  too  late.  In 
frantic  despair  the  man  cried :  "Why  didn't  I  know  this  before ;  why 
didn't  someone  tell  we  what  tobacco  will  do  to  a  man  ?" 

We  are  telling  our  congregations  and  all  of  our  people  just  what 
tobacco  will  do  to  a  man. 

TOBACCO  AFFECTS  MIND 

The  superintendent  of  one  of  our  large  insane  asylums  makes  the 
statement  that  fully  fifty  per  cent  of  the  patients  there  have  lost  their 
intellects  through  the  use  of  tobacco. 

Dr.  Poulson  tells  this  story :  "A  little  woman  came  into  my  office 
followed  by  two  strong  men,  who  held  a  wild-eyed  insane  youth  of 
seventeen.  His  mother  asked  me  to  investigate  and  see  if  there  was  any 
hope  for  the  boy.  I  told  her  there  was  none.  She  broke  down  and 
sobbed  as  if  her  heart  would  break.  I  asked  her  what  had  brought  her 
son  to  that  condition?  Cigarettes — he  smoked  more  and  more  until  he 
got  to  fifty  cigarettes  a  day;  then  his  mind  gave  way." 

I  submit  to  you  brethren  and  sisters  that  these  two  great  laws,  the 
law  of  Finance  and  the  law  of  Health,  are  essential  to  the  welfare  and 
prosperity  and  success  of  this  great  people,  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

May  God  bless  you  and  us  in  our  efforts  to  put  down  these  evil 
things  and  to  uphold  the  good  things  in  life,  is  my  prayer,  and. I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  the  Church,  for  I  know  that  it 
is  true  and  divine — that  it  is  the  work  of  our  Eternal  Father  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ.  I  rejoice  that  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
divine  authority  has  been  restored  to  the  earth  f'or  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  and  the  administration  in  the  ordinances  of  the  same.  I  am 
appreciative  of  the  splendid  service  that  is  being  rendered  by  the  stake 
presidencies  and  ward  bishoprics,  by  the  mission  presidents  and  the 
traveling  missionaries,  and  by  all  the  other  officers  throughout  the 
Church.  I  rejoice  in  the  faith  and  devotion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
It  is  also  gratifying  to  note  the  fine  work  of  those  who  have  talents,  and 
who  impart  of  those  talents  for  the  benefit  of  others.  The  inspirational 
character  of  the  music  that  has  been  rendered  in  the  different  sessions 
has  been  very  pleasing.  I  congratulate  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  the 
director  and  the  organists  for  the  splendid  service  they  are  giving, 
which  is  creating  such  a  wonderfully  favorable  impression  for  this 
people  throughout  the  United  States  and  throughout  the  world. 

SCIENTIFIC  PROGRESS  AIDS  GOSPEL  SPREAD 

I  realize  the  fact  that  with  the  wonderful  development  in  a  scientific 
way,  in  communication,  in  transportation,  and  in  other  fields,  the  world 
is  hurrying  swiftly  onward,  that  means  are  being  developed  whereby 
this  work  will  be  enabled  to  use  the  facilities  available  to  go  forward 
with  even  greater  rapidity  than  it  has  in  the  past.  It  is  our  responsibility 
and  our  opportunity  to  keep  pace  with  the  times  in  the  use  of  these 
facilities  for  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  message. 

TELEVISION  NEAR  AT  HAND 

I  think  we  may  expect  within  a  year  or  two,  at  the  latest,  not  only 
to  hear  the  voice  of  the  President  of  the  Church  over  the  radio,  but  that 
those  who  live  within  a  radius  of  25  or  30  miles  of  this  city  will  be  able 
to  see  his  visual  image  by  means  of  television.  During  the  summer  I 
had  the  privilege  of  visiting  the  television  laboratories  of  a  Utah  man 
in  Philadelphia, — Philo  T.  Farnsworth, — and  there  saw  a  demonstra- 
tion of  the  development  of  a  new  principle,  different  from  any  that  has 
heretofore  been  employed,  so  far  as  I  know — the  electronic  principle, — 
whereby  the  visual  image  is  produced  by  electrical  rays.  The  day 
before  I  was  there  the  radio  editors  of  New  York  newspapers  had  been 
there  and  seen  that  demonstration,  and  one  or  two  papers  had  written 
accounts  of  the  same.  The  statement  was  made  that,  within  six  months 
or  a  year  at  the  latest,  receiving  sets  for  television  would  be  available 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  111 

at  fairly  reasonable  prices  and  that  transmitting  equipment  would  be  set 
up  so  that  people  could  receive  visual  images  by  television. 

THE  PARABLE  OF  THE  SOWER 

The  eyes  of  the  world  are  upon  this  work  and  upon  this  people  as 
never  before.  The  principles  taught  by  this  Church  are  recognized  by 
thinking  men  and  women  as  generally  outstanding.  We  shall  be  judged 
by  our  observance  of  those  principles.  You  remember  the  parable  of 
the  sower,  one  of  the  great  parables  taught  by  the  Savior.  The  sower 
went  forth  sowing  seed,  some  of  the  seeds  fell  by  the  wayside,  and  the 
fowls  came  and  devoured  them  ;  some  fell  upon  stony  places,  where  there 
was  not  much  soil,  and  at  once  the  seeds  sprung  up,  because  there  was 
no  depth  of  earth ;  and  when  the  sun  was  up,  the  plants  were  scorched, 
and  withered  away  because  they  had  no  roots.  Some  fell  among  thorns, 
and  the  thorns  sprung  up  and  choked  them.  But  others  fell  in  good 
ground,  and  brought  forth  fruit,  some  a  hundred  fold,  some  sixty  fold, 
and  some  thirty  fold. 

GOD  IS  NO  RESPECTER  OF  PERSONS 

When  the  Apostle  Peter,  a  Jew,  was  led  by  revelation  to  Cornelius, 
a  Gentile,  a  believer  in  the  Gospel,  and  he  saw  the  evidences  of  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  Cornelius,  he  declared,  "Of  a  truth  I  per- 
ceive that  God  is  no  respecter  of  persons:  but  in  every  nation  he  that 
feareth  him  and  worketh  righteousness,  is  accepted  with  him,"  I  realize, 
after  my  trip  east  this  past  summer,  that  a  much  more  favorable  and 
friendly  attitude  is  in  evidence  toward  this  people  by  intelligent  men 
and  women.  In  fact,  in  some  respects,  their  attitude  is  so  favorable 
and  their  appreciation  of  our  principles  so  strong  that  we  are  under  a 
great  responsibility  to  endeavor  to  measure  up  to  the  standards  which 
they  have  set  up  for  us.  If  we  sense  the  meaning  of  this  attitude  and 
have  the  love  of  the  Gospel  in  our  hearts,  we  shall  endeavor  to  exemplify 
the  Gospel  principles  in  every  respect  in  our  lives.  If  we  fail  to  do  this, 
we  shall,  in  larger  or  smaller  measure,  bring  reproach  upon  the  Church. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  COMMANDMENTS  BRINGS  BLESSINGS 

We  receive  blessings  according  to  our  observance  of  divine  c'om- 
v  mandments.  Every  promise  and  blessing  is  conditioned  upon  the 
observance  of  certain  requirements.  So  it  is  with  the  observance  of 
natural  laws.  If  people  choose  to  transgress  divine  laws,  they  will  fail 
to  gain  the  advantages  of  such  principles.  Everyone  of  us  will  be  judged 
according  to  his  actions.  Occasionally  members-  of  the  Church  fail  to 
follow  the  counsel  of  Church  leaders  as  to  the  observance  of  Gospel 
principles.  They  have,  of  course,  the  right  to  do  so.    But  they  fail  to 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


realize  that  these  leaders  are  unselfishly  concerned  for  the  welfare  of 
every  member  of  the  Church.  Only  to  the  extent  that  the  Gospel  seed 
finds  root  in  their  hearts  and  is  properly  nourished  will  they  be  able  to 
produce  the  fruits  of  the  same. 

PEOPLE  WHO  SEEK  "LOAVES  AND  FISHES" 

There  are  people  who  would  join  this  Church  or  any  church  in 
order  to  get  any  material  benefits  that  might  accrue  therefrom.  They 
are  the  type  referred  to  by  the  Savior  on  one  occasion  as  those  who 
seek  the  "loaves  and  fishes."  I  think  there  is  danger  in  public  pronounce- 
ment that  the  Church  will  take  care  of  any  in  need  who  hold  member- 
ship in  the  Church.  Certainly  it  is  the  Church  policy  to  see  to  it  that 
no  Church  member  suffers  for  lack  of  the  necessities  of  life.  But  this 
should  not  necessarily  mean  that  the  Church  alone  should  carry  this 
load.  Of  course,  those  who  are  faithful,  who  have  brought  forth  fruits  of 
righteousness  deserve  Church  assistance  when  in  need.  Others  who 
are  indifferent  and  seek  the  "loaves  and  fishes"  should  be  cared  for 
through  public  agencies.  All  who  are  able-bodied  should  be  provided 
with  employment.  But  in  such  times  as  these,  when  private  employment 
is  lacking,  it  is  reasonable  and  proper  that  they  should  obtain  employ- 
ment through  public  undertakings.  In  normal  times,  when  private  in- 
dustry is  functioning  properly,  employment  is  largely  available  for 
practically  all  workers. 

EFFORTS  TO  BECOME  SELF-SUSTAINING 

All  Church  members  should  realize  the  importance,  and  cultivate  the 
aim,  of  endeavoring  to  support  themselves  and  those  dependent  upon 
them,  but  also  of  contributing  to  the  great  work  of  the  Church  with  their 
time  and  means.  It  is  the  aim  of  the  Church  to  help  those  in  need  to  help 
themselves.  Various  conditions  cause  distress.  The  causes  must  be 
determined — whether  unemployment,  sickness,  disability,  education  or 
other  causes.  As  far  as  possible  the  remedy  should  be  applied  to  enable 
the  distressed  to  become  self-supporting. 

RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  CHURCH 

It  must  be  remembered  that  this  Church  has  a  great  mission  and 
a  great  responsibility :  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  all  the  nations, — to  build 
up  the  Church  groups  in  the  branches,  wards  and  stakes, — to  provide 
the  necessary  facilities  for  worship,  spiritual  and  recreational  develop- 
ment,— to  advance  the  work  of  salvation  for  the  dead, — and  to  promote 
the  temporal  as  well  as  the  spiritual  welfare  of  its  members.  All  these 
things  require  much  means  as  well  as  voluntary  service.  Every  member 
of  the  Church  is  expected  to  do  his  or  her  part  to  help  in  these  various 
respects. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


113 


IMPORTANCE  OF  INDUSTRY 

Everyone  who  is  a  member,  or  who  is  interested  in  the  Gospel, 
should  be  encouraged  to  exemplify  the  spirit  of  the  beehive.  The  com- 
bined efforts — both  spiritual  and  financial — of  all  Church  members  are 
needed  in  order  that  this  work  may  best  fulfil  its  destiny.  President 
Brigham  Young  declared  on  one  occasion :  "The  non-producer  must  live 
on  the  products  of  those  who  labor.  There  is  no  other  way.  If  we  all 
labor  a  few  hours  a  day,  we  can  then  spend  the  remainder  of  our  time  in 
rest  and  the  improvement  of  our  minds."  The  Lord  declared:  "Thou 
shalt  not  be  idle,  for  the  idler  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  garment 
of  the  laborer." 

ECONOMY  AND  EFFICIENCY  IN  CHURCH  AFFAIRS 

It  appears  to  me,  that,  in  order  to  accomplish  all  the  many  things 
with  which  the  Church  is  charged,  there  must  be  practiced  economy  and 
efficiency  in  all  of  the  various  responsibilities, — missionary  work,  facil- 
ities for  worship  and  spiritual,  educational  and  recreational  development, 
and  temporal  relief.  To  promote  the  temporal  welfare  of  the  people  of 
this  intermountain  country,  I  think  we  should  go  back  to  the  principle 
of  practical  cooperation, — in  productive  as  well  as  in  consumptive  enter- 
prises. They  will  provide  local  employment,  use  local  materials,  keep 
money  at  home  and  furnish  profitable  returns.  I  am  told  that,  if  all  of 
us  would  become  home  industry  minded  and  patronize  local  industry  as 
far  as  local  production  is  feasible,  employment  would  soon  be  available 
for  practically  all  unemployed.  Likewise,  I  think  we  should  encourage 
and  promote  more  practical  training  in  the  various  trades  and  vocations 
adaptable  to  the  local  conditions.  Also,  if  those  engaged  in  farming 
suffer  repeatedly  from  lack  of  water  and  land  fertility,  they  should 
have  the  opportunity  and  counsel,  if  necessary,  to  re-locate  on  projects 
where  such  requisites  are  practically  assured  and  where  the  Church 
organizations  can  be  established. 

I  pray  that  all  of  us  as  Church  members  may  strive  continually  to  put 
ourselves  in  a  position  to  be  most  helpful  in  the  advancement  of  this 
work,  as  well  as  to  be  abte  to  take  care  of  ourselves  and  those  who  are 
dependent  upon  us. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  to  this  end,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  very  naturally  you  will  not  expect  me  to 
occupy  this  position  very  long  this  afternoon  as  the  hour  is  well  nigh 
spent.  I,  however,  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  mingling  my  voice 
with  those  of  my  brethren  in  testimony  of  the  truth. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball  has  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  in 
the  position  we  occupy  we  are  supposed  to  be  special  witnesses  of 
this  great  truth,  and  that  we  endeavor  to  be  to  the  fullest  of  our  capacity 
in  all  soberness. 

We  have  heard  many  references  here  this  afternoon  to  the  Prince  of 
Peace  and  his  mission  in  the  earth.  We  name  ourselves  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  that  to  me  means  much.  Jesus 
Christ  we  accept  as  the  Son  of  God,  our  Redeemer.  We  believe  that  it 
was  through  him  that  our  greatest  opportunities  were  vouchsafed  to  us 
in  the  earth.  We  believe  that  he  came  into  the  earth  and  labored  in  our 
behalf  and  gave  us  a  wonderful  body  of  doctrine  that  we  might  follow, 
and  laid  down  his  life  for  us,  becoming  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection. 
We  believe  that  resurrection  to  be  a  fact  and  it  opens  up  to  us  the  very 
greatest  possibilities  that  man  could  ever  desire,  I  am  sure.  If  it  is  not 
a  fact  that  he  was  resurrected,  then  we  are  a  deluded  people.  The 
scriptures  have  borne  that  testimony  to  us,  a  testimony  so  well  proven 
that  any  court  at  law  would  accept  it,  and  it  is  refreshing  at  times  to  find 
men  who  even  delve  into  the  sciences  that  we  are  partly  familiar  with 
who  are  willing  to  accept  the  bodily  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  as  a 
demonstrated  fact. 

I  call  your  attention  to  the  article  that  appeared  in  the  Deseret 
News  supplement  some  time  ago  from  the  pen  of  Apostle  Joseph  F. 
Merrill  who  is  presiding  over  the  European  Mission.  I  say  it  is  re- 
freshing when  men  such  as  he  refers  to  will  testify  to  this  fact  in  the  face 
of  the  many  questions  that  are  constantly  being  asked  regarding  it.  We 
accept  that  fact  as  an  actuality  and  a  verity.  Our  faith  rests  upon  it, 
and  Christ  himself  told  Peter  and  his  disciples  that  upon  the  testimony 
which  he  had  received,  and  which  we  might  receive  from  God  our 
Heavenly  Father  that  that  is  true,  he  would  found  his  church.  We  rest 
just  as  firmly  upon  that  testimony  in  this  day  as  they  did  in  that. 

The  resurrection,  being  an  accomplished  fact  and  a  possibility 
with  us,  opens  up  to  us  wonderful  opportunities.  Perhaps  there  is  no 
more  sublime  thought  in  all  our  teachings  and  all  our  doctrines  than  the 
possibility  of  eternal  and  perpetual  progress  that  the  human  soul  is 
capable  of.  Remove  from  our  philosophy  the  thought  and  possibility 
of  a  resurrection  and  we  lose  that  wonderful  thought  of  eternal  progres- 
sion. With  it  goes  the  thought  of  our  mutual  association  in  family 
relationships  we  so  much  cherish  as  a  people.  They  to  me  are  crucial 
and  fundamental  beliefs.  If  we  cannot  accept  them  it  becomes  a  sad 
clay  for  us,  but  we  do  accept  them  wholeheartedly  as  they  are  perhaps 
the  most  wonderful  thoughts  in  all  of  our  philosophy.  Along  with  this 
thought  we  accept  another,  the  fact  that  testimony  of  this  was  borne  to 
our  generation.  I  mean  the  generation  in  these  modern  times,  if  we  can 
extend  it  over  a  hundred  years  or  more.  That  same  testimony  that 
Christ  is  a  resurrected  being,  and  a  testimony  as  to  the  personality  of  God, 
his  Father,  came  to  us  through  a  modern  prophet.    That  tact  and  its 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


115 


succeeding  important  events  were  commemorated  just  recently  by  the 
erection  and  unveiling  of  a  monument  on  the  Hill  Cumorah. 

Those  to  me  are  the  chief  cornerstones  of  the  foundation  upon 
which  we  base  our  faith — the  actual  Sonship  of  Jesus  Christ,  his  resur- 
rection from  the  dead,  and  the  restoration  of  the  knowledge  of  this 
wonderful  thing  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  If  we  accept  them, 
and  we  do,  then  we  are  in  very  deed  Latter-day  Saints,  provided  that  we 
are  able  to  live  approximately  at  least  according  to  the  teachings  involved 
in  their  doctrines.. 

That  is  the  testimony  that  I  want  to  leave  with  you.  I  believe  these 
things  sincerely.  I  believe  them  to  be  true.  I  am  willing  to  accept  the 
responsibility  of  advocating  them,  and  I  am  going  to  try  to  the  best  of 
my  ability  to  live  in  accordance  with  them. 

I  pray  that  our  Heavenly  Father  will  grant  to  me  and  my  colleagues 
and  all  the  officers  of  this  Church  the  power  to  live  that  doctrine  and  live 
it  so  as  to  be  an  example  to  every  member  of  our  flock,  so  that  no  man 
who  looks  at  us  can  say,  "He  teaches  one  thing  but  does  another."  That 
to  me  is  the  saddest  thing  in  the  world,  to  have  a  man  go  out  and  talk 
and  talk  and  talk  a  truth,  and  never  live  it.  If  we  can  live  our  teachings 
there  is  no  question  about  our  future.  I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us  with 
this  strength,  that  every  officer  in  this  Church  may  be  an  example,  that 
every  member  in  this  Church  may  equally  be  an  example  to  those  with 
whom  he  associates  in  the  world  at  large ;  and  when  the  time  comes  that 
our  example  may  measure  up  to  our  teachings  and  to  the  things  we  know 
to  be  right,  then  we  will  be  the  power  in  the  earth  that  the  Lord  has 
desired  and  destined  this  great  organization  to  become. 

May  God  bless  you  all,  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God, 
for  a  prophet." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  think  I  echo  the  sentiments  of  every  member  of  the  Church  present, 
that  this  conference  has  been  one  that  will  be  remembered  as  long  as  we 
live.  Never  before  have  I  felt  the  inspiration  of  God  to  such  an  extent 
as  I  have  during  this  conference. 

I  anticipated  referring  somewhat  in  detail  to  what  I  find  in  a  book 
entitled,  "Twelve  Modern  Apostles."  It  was  published  in  1926.  There 
were  selected  from  twelve  denominations  one  person  to  speak  for  each. 
I  was  selected  at  that  convention  held  in  Chicago  to  speak  in  behalf  of 
what  they  termed  the  Mormon  Church.  As  I  took  the  book  from  the 
shelf  the  other  day — having  forgotten  all  about  it — I  looked  it  over  and 
turned  to  the  article  prepared  by  myself,  to  remind  me  of  what  I  said 
upon  that  occasion.   I  haven't  the  time  now,  to  discuss  it  in  detail  but  I 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


want  to  say  to  you  that  the  first  sentence  of  the  article  that  I  prepared 
at  that  time  reads  as  follows : 

"In  the  first  place  I  was  born  one." 

LIVING  UP  TO  PRINCIPLES  WE  BELIEVE 

I  was  born  one,  and  while  years  passed  before  1  could  stand  before 
a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  or  otherwise  and  state  that  I  knew 
this  was  God's  Church,  that  I  knew  that  the  Presidents  of  the  Church 
from  the  beginning  had  received  revelations  from  God,  and  that  this 
Church  was  directed  not  by  the  wisdom  of  man,  but  by  the  inspiration 
of  our  Heavenly  Father,  I  would  rather  die  than  lose  my  testimony, 
and  I  have  never  been  ashamed  of  it  no  matter  where  I  have  been.  I 
have  never  occupied  a  position  that  man  or  woman  could  point  to  me 
and  say,  "He  doesn't  live  up  to  the  principles  professed  by  him."  In  all 
of  the  gatherings  of  the  men  of  the  nation  that  I  have  attended,  the 
great  dinners  given  by  the  wealthy  in  Washington,  where  liquors  were 
served  at  every  banquet,  never  have  I  tasted  a  drop  of  their  liquors  or 
wines.  At  the  first  great  banquet  I  attended,  given  by  the  wealthiest 
woman  in  the  world,  there  were  at  every  guest's  place  at  the  table 
glasses  for  the  three  different  wines  that  were  served.  At  the  close  of 
the  dinner  the  hostess  noticed  that  I  had  not  taken  a  drop  of  these  wines, 
and  she  said  to  me :  "Senator  Smoot,  wasn't  my  wine  good  enough  for 
you?" 

I  had  a  chance  to  explain  to  her  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  under- 
stood by  us.  I  begged  of  her  to  take  no  offense,  for  none  was  intended. 
It  was  not  long  until  everyone  in  Washington — for  I  did  the  same  at 
every  dinner,  at  the  embassies  of  foreign  countries,  or  whatever  the 
occasion  might  be — knew  that  I  did  not  drink  liquor.  I  thank  God  that 
I  had  strength  enough  to  act  as  I  professed,  and  as  my  religion  taught  me. 
God  never  requires  of  his  people  anything  that  he  does  not  provide  a 
way  for  its  accomplishment.  I  think  sometimes  that  our  growth  is  slow, 
perhaps  conversions  are  not  so  fast  as  we  think  they  ought  to  be,  but 
they  are  just  as  fast  as  people  are  prepared  to  keep  the  word  of  God 
and  listen  to  his  commandments. 

AT  THE  WHITE  HOUSE 

I  hope  the  time  will  never  come  when  a  change  will  be  made  of  that 
which  has  been  in  vogue,  as  far  as  the  White  House  is  concerned,  for 
nearly  a  hundred  years.  No  liquors  of  any  kind  are  served  at  public 
dinners  given  there  by  the  President  of  the  United  States.  It  has  given 
me  unbounded  pleasure  to  explain  to  all  the  Presidents  of  the  United 
States,  from  Theodore  Roosevelt  down,  our  attitude,  our  belief  In  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  On  two  occasions  I  have  lived  at  the  White  House, 
I  have  slept  there,  and  taken  part  in  all  the  exercises  that  were  held, 
and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  never  was 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


117 


a  morning  or  a  night  that  I  did  not  bow  before  my  Heavenly  Father  in 
that  place  and  thank  him  for  the  knowledge  I  had  of  him  and  his  great 
work. 

VISIT  WITH  THEODORE  ROOSEVELT 

The  last  time  I  visited  Theodore  Roosevelt  he  was  a  very,  very  sick 
man.  It  was  some  time  before  his  death.  In  our  conversation  he  ex- 
pressed the  opinion  that  the  time  was  near  at  hand  when  he  would  be 
taken  to  the  Beyond.  He  said :  "I  have  tried  to  live  a  Christian  life,  I 
believe  in  God,  I  have  tried  to  wrong  no  man.  I  expect  to  continue  my 
work  beyond."  He  was  strong  enough  to  rise  from  his  chair  after  a 
two  hours'  visit,  and  I  had  to  leave  to  catch  a  train  from  New  York  to 
Washington.  He  arose  with  a  great  deal  of  energy,  and  putting  his  arm 
around  me  he  said :  "Reed,  there  are  trying  times  coming  for  our  country. 
I  expect  you  to  defend  the  rights  of  the  people  and  the  constitution  of 
the  United  States  as  long  as  you  live."  I  promised  him  upon  that  occa- 
sion that  I  would  do  my  best. 

PRAYER  FOR  COUNTRY  AND  CHURCH 

I  love  my  country.  I  have  watched  her  growth,  I  have  seen  her 
mistakes,  as  I  judge  them,  but  I  have  absolute  confidence  that  there 
shall  no  harm  come  to  our  nation  as  a  nation.  We  will  revere  the 
Constitution,  live  by  its  principles,  even  though  at  times  it  may  seem 
that  we  are  violating  them.  God  bless  America.  God  bless  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  God  bless  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  and  give  them  the  revelations,  O  Father,  of  thy  mind  and  will, 
that  they  may  at  all  times  direct  the  affairs  of  this  Church  in  a  way  that 
thou  wilt  approve  of  all  that  is  done.  And,  O  Father,  grant  unto  thy 
servants  power  to  defend  thy  cause  here  upon  this  earth  in  a  way  that 
will  be  convincing  unto  the  honest  in  heart.  May  we  grow  in  numbers 
as  thou  seest  best  we  should,  no  faster,  no  slower,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

May  the  Lord  bless  me  that  I  may  be  helpful  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  The  ways  of  the  Lord. are  those  of  simplicity.  They  are 
effective  because  of  the  intelligence,  wisdom,  and  love  back  of  them. 
It  seems  to  be  more  difficult  to  live  the  simple  life  and  the  principles  of 
the  Gospel  than  it  is  to  live  a  more  complex  life  with  a  religion  that  has 
as  a  part  of  its  motivation,  artificial  and  ornate  things  as  well  as 
numerous  rites  and  ceremonies.  The  statement  has  been  made  that  it  is 
needful  for  us,  in  order  to  hold  our  people,  to  introduce,  at  least  in  a 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

small  measure,  some  of  these  ornate  attractions  and  additional  cere- 
monies. 

What  we  need  is  real  faith.  I  was  encouraged  in  my  faith  because 
of  President  Grant's  attitude  regarding  the  questions  which  in  his  youth 
were  unanswerable  from  an  intellectual  or  scientific  standpoint.  I  am 
quite  certain  that  today  we  have  other  questions  which  are  unanswerable 
from  the  viewpoint  of  science  or  learning.  Our  only  safety,  when  it 
comes  to  the  revealed  laws  and  words  of  God,  is  to  hold  to  that  type  of 
perfect  faith  that  President  Grant  had  as  a  young  man.  If  we  do  not, 
and  if  we  are  not  capable  of  developing  that  degree  of  faith,  eventually 
we  will  lose  our  faith  in  the  revelations  of  God.  Our  schools  of  educa- 
tion in  the  Church,  our  auxiliary  associations,  and  even  our  meetings, 
should  be  so  imbued  with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  and  should  so  interpret 
the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  in  accord  with  our  standard  works,  that 
no  student,  no  parent,  none  of  us,  would  have  cause  for  any  criticism. 
Those  who  teach  us  from  the  pulpit  and  in  our  organizations  or  our 
schools  should  be  men  and  women  of  whom  there  is  no  question  as  to 
their  faith  towards  the  revealed  word  of  God.  Correctness  of  doctrine 
and  spirituality  are  our  safeguards.  They  are  absolutely  necessary  if 
we  shall  make  progress  and  maintain  our  faith  in  the  revealed  principles 
of  the  Gospel. 

May  we  be  blessed  by  the  Lord  that  our  faith  shall  increase;  that 
we  will  be  able  to  live  beautifully  the  simple  things  of  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  so  that  he  will  be  pleased  with  us,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the 
spiritual  feast  that  we  have  enjoyed  during  the  last  three  days. 
Reference  has  been  made  to  the  music  furnished  by  the  various 
organizations.  To  me  it  has  been  inspiring.  From  each  of  the 
speakers  we  have  received  suggestions  that  have  been  highly 
beneficial.  The  teachings  of  the  Master  have  been  so  beautifully 
set  forth  that  a  stranger  to  this  Church  would  certainly  be  impressed 
with  the  fact  that  we  believe  in  and  earnestly  advocate  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  the  only  plan  for  salvation  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom. 

BELIEVING  THEIR  PROFESSIONS 

When  we  realize  that  those  professing  Christianity  are  often 
arrayed  against  their  fellows  selfishly  and  unkindly  I  am  not 
surprised  that  there  are  many  in  the  world  who  are  unable  to 
accept  the  various  interpretations  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
When  we  see  the  manner  in  which  many  men  and  women  who 
claim  to  be  Christians  are  deporting  themselves  it  has  a  tendency 
to  destfoy  the  faith  of  those  who  do  not  differentiate  between  the 
effect  of  living  and  just  pretending  to  live  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


119 


OUR  BELIEF  IS  IT  DEMONSTRATED  BY  OUR  CONDUCT  t 

I  am  assuming  today  that  I  am  looking  into  the  faces  of  a 
group  of  men  and  women,  and  the  same  is  true  of  those  who  have 
been  here  the  last  several  days,  who  are  here  because  they  believe 
that  there  is  a  God.  We  believe  that  he  is  the  author  of  our  being. 
We  believe  that  he  created  this  earth  and  placed  our  parents  upon 
it.  We  believe  that  he  sent  his  only  begotten  Son  into  the  world 
to  establish  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  believe  that  he  gave 
to  us  the  Holy  Bible,  known  to  us  as  the  Old  and  New  Testaments. 
We  believe  that  he  gave  to  us  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  history 
of  the  ancestors  of  the  American  Indian.  We  believe  that  he 
revealed  himself  to  the  prophets  of  old  and  to  the  Prophet  in  oui 
day  who  organized  this  Church  under  the  direction  of  the  Redeemer 
of  mankind.  We  believe  that  the  Church  has  been  guided  by  those 
whom  the  Lord  has  sustained  as  his  prophets  since  then.  I  say, 
we  believe  that,  but  are  we  demonstrating  to  the  world  that  we 
believe  it?  Are  we  willing  that  this  Church  should  be  judged  by 
our  personal  conduct?  Are  we  willing  to  stand  in  the  presence  of 
our  Maker  and  say :  "With  the  knowledge  that  thou  gavest  me,  I 
have  been  worthy  of  thy  truth,"  or  are  some  of  us  in  the  position 
that  we  would  be  compelled  to  say:  "Because  of  our  selfishness  and 
our  sinfulness  we  have  failed"? 

BECAUSE  OF  FAILURE  TO  HEED  ADVICE 

When  I  think  of  the  harm  that  is  being  done  to  the  youth  of 
this  Church  because  men  and  women  belonging  to  it,  contrary  to 
the  advice  of  our  President,  were  willing  to  legalize  the  thing  that 
has  been  a  curse  to  humanity  from  the  beginning,  I  ask  myself  the 
question,  "What  will  they  say  when  they  stand  in  the  presence  of 
the  Heavenly  Father  of  these  sons  and  daughters  who  are  being 
destroyed?"  If  the  Lord  were  not  more  merciful  to  us  than  some 
of  us  are  to  our  fellows,  I  fear  that  we  would  not  enjoy  the  blessings 
that  we  enjoy.  But  he  is  long-suffering  and  patient,  although  he 
had  told  us  plainly  that  he  will  not  always  be  so,  that  he  will  not 
always  overlook  our  mistakes ;  but  he  has  helped  us  by  giving  us 
counsel  and  advice,  informing  us  what  we  ought  to  do. 

VIOLATING  THE  SABBATH 

Ten  commandments  were  given  to  ancient  Israel.  Do  we 
believe  that  they  were  given  by  our  Heavenly  Father?  If  we  do, 
then  we  know  that  they  are  binding  upon  latter-day  Israel.  Let 
me  read : 

Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it  holy. 
Six  days  shalt  thou  labor,  and  do  all  thy  work : 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


But  the  seventh  day  is  the  sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God :  in  it  thou 
shalt  net  do  any  work,  thou,  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  thy  manservant, 
nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within 
thy  gates : 

For  in  six  days  the  Lord  made  heaven  and  earth,  the  sea,  and  all 
that  in  them  is,  and  rested  the  seventh  day ;  wherefore  the  Lord  blessed 
the  sabbath  day,  and  hallowed  it. 

This  very  day  upon  which  we  meet  here  to  worship,  viz,  the 
Sabbath,  has  become  the  play-day  of  this  great  nation — the  day 
set  apart  by  thousands  to  violate  the  commandment  that  God  gave 
long,  long  ago,  and  I  am  persuaded  that  much  of  the  sorrow  and 
distress  that  is  afflicting  and  will  continue  to  afflict  mankind  is 
traceable  to  the  fact  that  they  have  ignored  his  admonition  to  keep 
the  Sabbath  day  holy.  Where  are  your  sons  and  daughters  and 
mine  today?  If  they  are  observing  this  commandment  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  then  they  are  entitled  to  his  blessings.  If  they  are 
failing,  then  sorrow  and  not  blessings  may  be  theirs.  I  want  to 
say  to  this  body  of  men  that  it  is  your  duty  and  mine,  not  in  an 
indifferent  way,  but  in  the  majesty  of  the  priesthood  of  the  living 
God,  to  set  our  own  houses  in  order,  to  teach  our  sons  and  daughters, 
to  exercise  our  influence  in  the  communities  in  which  we  live  as 
fully  as  we  have  ever  done,  and  if  we  have  failed  in  any  particular, 
that  we  increase  in  our  desire  to  bless  mankind. 

OTHER  COMMANDMENTS  VIOLATED 

The  Lord  said  further : 

Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother :  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon 
the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee. 

Do  you  believe  that  he  said  that?  Are  we  honoring  our  fathers 
and  our  mothers?  Is  the  Christian  world  honoring  father  and 
mother  ? 

Thou  shalt  not  kill. 

The  roar  of  the  artillery  of  a  supposedly  Christian  nation  may 
be  heard  in  Ethiopia  while  we  are  here  in  worship.  Human  beings 
are  violating  that  commandment,  "Thou  shalt  not  kill." 

Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

Do  you  believe  that  the  Lord  said  that?  Do  you  believe  that 
he  meant  what  he  said?  I  say  to  you  that  this  world  is  suffering 
from  the  very  fact  that  they  ignore  that  loving,  kind  advice,  and 
there  is  sorrow  and  disaster  abroad  in  the  land  because  men  and 
women  refuse  to  observe  the  moral  law  and  earn  the  blessings  that 
result  from  obedience  to  the  same. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


121 


Thou  shalt  not  steal. 

Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness  against  thy  neighbor. 

Are  we  guiltless  or  are  we  among  those,  who,  when  we  stand 
in  the  presence  of  the  great  Judge  will  be  humiliated  when  Ave 
realize  that  because  of  our  avarice  and  deceitfulness  we  have 
wronged  these  children  of  his  of  whom  he  has  said :  "Inasmuch 
as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye 
have  done  it  unto  me." 

Thou  shalt  not  covet  thy  neighbor's  house,  thou  shalt  not  covet  thy 
neighbor's  wife,  nor  his  manservant,  nor  his  maidservant,  nor  his  ox, 
nor  his  ass,  nor  anything  that  is  thy  neighbor's. 

Do  you  believe  that  the  Lord  said  that  ?  Do  you  believe  that 
he  meant  what  he  said?  If  we  only  understood  how  near  we  are 
to  the  Judgment  Day  there  are  men  and  women  in  the  various 
communities  of  this  world  who  would  now  be  on  their  knees  in 
sack-cloth  and  ashes ;  but  they  think  that  time  is  so  far  off  that  the}' 
procrastinate  the  day  of  repentance. 

Not  only  did  the  Lord  reveal  his  will  to  ancient  Israel  but  he 
has  spoken  to  latter-day  Israel  and  warned  us  against  the  sins  and 
bad  habits  of  the  .world.  Read  prayerfully  Section  89,  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.    Read  it  all.    It  is  called  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

NEED  FOR  REPENTANCE 

Do  you  believe  that  the  Lord  gave  to  us  the  Word  of  Wisdom  ? 
Do  you  really  think  that  he  knows  what  is  good  for  us?  Do  you 
think  it  would  please  him  if  we  would  observe  that  law?  He  says 
it  would.  Do  you  think  he  meant  it?  There  is  need  for  repentance 
in  Israel.  There  is  need  for  the  men  and  women  of  this  Church  to 
gather  their  loved  ones  around  their  family  shrines  and  say  to  our 
Heavenly  Father,  If  you  will  forgive  us  for  our  past  foolishness  we 
will  be  better  in  the  future.  We  need  to  do  that  and  until  many 
homes  are  set  in  order  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  can- 
not be  there.  He  will  not  be  mocked.  He  has  told  us  so  and  he  has 
given  to  us  wrhat  he  has  given  to  no  other  people.  All  that  the 
people  of  the  world  have  that  is  really  precious  we  also  have,  and 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  addition.  Do  you  believe  it?  I 
marvel  when  I  see  how  careless  some  of  our  Father's  children  are. 
When  the  world  is  aflame  from  one  end  to  the  other  with  jealousy 
and  wickedness,  I  marvel  that  we  are  so  .  complacent  and  self- 
satisfied  and  go  on  day  by  day  indifferent  as  to  the  condition  of  our 
fellows,  almost  saying  by  our  conduct,  "Are  we  our  brother's 
keeper?" 

OBSERVANCE  OF  COMMANDMENTS  NECESSARY 

God  gave  to  us  a  wonderful  blessing  when  he  gave  to  us  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.   He  gave  to  you  and  me  a  marvelous  privi- 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lege  in  that  we  can  associate  with  good  men  and  women  who  are 
desirous  of  keeping  the  commandments.  But  in  return  for  that  gift 
and  that  blessing  he  holds  us  responsible  not  only  to  say  that  we 
believe,  but  to  live  that  we  may  be  blameless  before  him  when  we 
stand  there  at  the  last  day. 

You  will  pardon  me  if  I  have  talked  with  intense  earnestness. 
It  is  not  because  I  am  angry — I  am  hurt;  my  feelings  are  wounded 
at  the  indifference,  the  carelessness,  yea  blindness,  of  many  who 
belong  to  this  great  Church,  because  I  know  what  the  result  will  be. 
The  Lord  himself  has  spoken.  Now  let  us  go  to  our  homes  and 
wherein  they  are  not  in  order,  let  us  set  them  in-  order,  get  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  keep  it,  observe  the  commandments  of  God 
that  we  may  obtain  his  blessings,  and  let  us  demonstrate  day  by 
day  by  loving  kindness  and  charity,  and  consideration  to  one  an- 
other in  these  trying  times,  that  we  do  know  that  God  lives. 

NOT  ASHAMED  OF  TRUTH 

I  know  that  he  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord.  I  have  never  been 
anywhere  that  I  have  been  ashamed  to  say  that.  I  do  not  know 
why  a  man  should  be  ashamed  of  knowing  the  truth  because  some- 
body else  does  not  know  it,  especially  when  it  pertains  to  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Let  your  light 
so  shine  that  men  and  women  everywdiere  observing  your  good 
works  may  be  constrained  to  glorify  our  Father  which  is  in  heaven. 

our  father's  work 

Sustain  the  constitution  of  the  United  States.  The  Lord  him- 
self has  said  that  he  raised  up  the  very  men  who  prepared  it  to 
the  end  that  it  might  be  an  example  to  all  the  world.  Do  you 
believe  it?  If  you  do  then  sustain  it  and  don't  let  your  voice  be 
among  those  that  shall  deride  and  break  down  the  things  that  are 
so  important  for  us.  This  is  our  Father's  work.  We  are  his 
children,  heirs  to  all  blessings.  All  that  any  man  or  woman  ever 
enjoyed  in  all  the  wide  world  will  be  ours  if  we  keep  the  com- 
mandments and  we  will  obtain  it  in  no  other  way.  That  we  may 
be  worthy  of  the  welcome  home,  "Well  done  thou  good  and  faithful 
servant,"  when  our  day's  labor  is  completed,  I  humbly  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  Presidency  desires  to  hold  a  meeting  tomorrow  morning  of  all 
the  general  authorities,  the  presidencies  of  stakes,  high  councilors, 
bishops,  bishop's  counselors,  and  stake  and  ward  clerks,  and  if  any  of  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  123 

other  brethren  want  to  come,  they  are  welcome.  The  meeting  will  be 
held  at  10  o'clock  tomorrow  morning  in  this  Tabernacle. 

AUTHORITIES  ABSENT 

We  regret  the  absence  of  Elders  John  A.  Widtsoe  and  Joseph  V. 
Merrill.  Brother  Merrill,  as  you  know,  is  presiding  over  the  European 
Mission,  and  Elder  Widtsoe  is  doing  something  that  we  hope  and  pray 
will  have  a  wonderful  effect  upon  the  people  of  the  United  States.  Not 
only  is  Brother  Widtsoe  engaged  in  this  work,  but  ministers  of  other 
denominations  are  being  permitted  to  teach  and  preach  the  Gospel  as 
they  understand  it  to  the  students  of  the  University  of  Southern  Cali- 
fornia. Wonderful !  May  that  same  privilege  be  afforded  to  all  univer- 
sities. I  agree  with  Roger  W.  Babson  that  what  the  people  of  America 
need  more  than  anything  else  is  religion. 

PAYS  TRIBUTE  TO  FORMER  CHOIR  LEADER 

I  wish  to  echo  my  appreciation  of  the  labors  of  Brother  Anthony  C. 
Lund  as  the  leader  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  He  was  a  man  of  deep  love 
of  the  Gospel,  and  his  spirituality  was  demonstrated  in  his  labors  as  our 
musical  director  at  the  Brigham  Young  University,  and  as  conductor  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir.  He  was  so  full  of  jokes  and  humor  that  many 
people  did  not  know  the  strong  spiritual  character  of  the  man.  Many 
people  not  of  our  faith  have  expressed  to  me  their  appreciation  of  the 
spirituality  of  the  singing  of  our  choir,  and  also  of  the  spiritual  messages 
by  our  announcer. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  these  beautiful  flowers  which  have  been 
provided  by  Brother  and  Sister  J.  P.  Fugal  of  Pleasant  Grove — I  am 
very  partial  to  Pleasant  Grove,  I  got  my  wife  there. 

I  wish  to  thank  our  new  Choir  leader,  Brother  Spencer  Cornwall, 
the  organist,  and  the  members  of  the  Choir  for  the  splendid  music  we 
have  had,  and  I  wish  to  thank  all  who  have  furnished  the  music  during 
this  conference. 

An  anthem  "Worthy  the  Lamb,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir,  after  which 
the  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  "Doxology." 

Henry  H.  Blood,  President  of  the  North  Davis  Stake  end  Governor 
of  the  State  of  Utah,  offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  Summit  Stake  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Judith  Anderson 
Beard,  furnished  the  music  at  the  Friday  morning  and  afternoon  sessions 
of  the  Conference ;  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Charlotte  O.  Sackett,  at  the  Saturday  morning  session ;  the 
German  Latter-day  Saint  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Otto  Michaelis,  at 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Saturday  afternoon  session;  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  at  the  Sunday  sessions. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper  and  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    85 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   44 

Rapid  changes  noted,  44 — Community  life  among  the  Mormons,  45 — 
Building  an  advanced  civilization,  45 — New  day  requires  further 'dem- 
onstration, 46 — The  Church  a  standard  for  the  nations,  46 — World- 
wide need  of  Mormonism,  47 — What  is  the  matter  with  Christianity? 
47 — Power  of  Godliness  lacking,  48 — Demonstrators  for  God,  48 — 
Solution  of  World's  problems  in  Church  plan,  49 — We  shall  be  dif- 
ferent, 49 — Our  responsibility  and  destiny,  50. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   16 

Burbidge,  Elder  George  W   35 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   65 

A  miracle  of  healing,  65 — A  mighty  nation,  66 — The  Gospel  leaven, 
66 — A  minister's  opinion,  67 — Spirit  of  Elijah  at  work,  68 — Prophecy 
by  Orson  Pratt,  68 — Seeing  with  spiritual  eyes,  69. 

Cannon,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q  110 

The  parable  of  the  sower,  111 — God  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  111 — 
Observance  of  commandments  brings  blessings,  111 — People  who  seek 
"loaves  and  fishes,"  112 — Efforts  to  become  self-sustaining,  112 — 
Responsibilities  of  Church,  112 — Importance  of  industry,  113 — Economy 
and  efficiency  in  Church  affairs,  113. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers   83 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   89 

Pays  tribute  to  Church  music  and  musicians,  90 — The  path  to  peace, 

90 —  As  the  Lord  would  have  us  live,  90 — Obedience  to  J^w  necessary, 

91 —  Laws  of  punishment  and  laws  of  blessing,  91 — Destructive  doc- 
trines, 91 — The  laws  of  Gcd  immutable,  92 — One  great  evil  master  mind 
at  work,  92. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  105 

Music  appreciated,  105 — Operation  of  laws  inescapable, ,  105 — Law  of 
finance,  106 — Relief  from  bondage  of  debt,  107 — The  law  of  health, 
107 — Women  smoke  publicly,  108 — A  lady  missionary's  influence,  108 — 
Noted  outsiders'  views  on  smoking,  108 — Tobacco  affects  mind,  109. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B   31 

Dayton,  Elder  Don  Mack   37 

Douglas,  Elder  James  H   60 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   22 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   85 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers   87 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   86 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Joy  in  labors,  3 — Finds  many  evidences,  3 — Faith  in  Book  of  Mormon, 
4 — History  bears  out  facts,  4 — Voices  heard  throughout  land,  4 — The 
importance  of  faith,  5 — In  line  of  duty,  5 — His  faith  has  not  been 
shaken,  6 — Constantly  finding  additional  evidences,  6 — Grateful  for 
accomplishments,  7 — Need  word  of  Wisdom,  7 — Appeals  for  influence, 
8 — An  economic  aid,  9 — "Evils  and  designs,"  9 — Further  counsel  from 
the  Lord,  9 — Great  blessings  promised,  10 — Inspirational  time  at 


Cumorah,  10 — Joy  in  service,  11. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   43 

Expresses  appreciation  to  Summit  Stake  Choir,  43. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   52 

Regarding  the  hymn,  "School  thy  feelings,"  52. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   74 

Returned  mission  presidents,  74. 
Grant,, President  Heber  J   83 

Changes  in  Church  officers,  84. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   85 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities,  85 — General  Officers   of  the 
Church,  86 — General  Auxiliary  officers  of  the  Church,  87. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   88 

Grateful  to  Singing  Mothers  and  German  Choir,  88 — Book  of  Mormon 
in  Braille,  88. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  102 

Should  not  discourage  belief  in  the  Bible,  102 — The  Bible  is  what  it 
purports  to  be,  103 — The  Gospel  here  to  stay,  104 — Formerly  absurdities, 
now  demonstrated  facts,  104. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  122 

Authorities  absent,  123 — Pays  tribute  to  former  Choir  leader,  123. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   50 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A   23 


INDEX 


127 


A  beautiful  setting,  23 — The  present  leadership  of  the  Church,  23 — 
The  oracles  of  God,  24 — Willing  to  give  his  life,  24 — Men  with  out- 
standing qualifications,  25 — Leaders  in  stakes  and  missions,  25 — As  the 
voice  of  God,  25. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R  113 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   92 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   18 

"Billions  for  Rum,"  18 — The  four  great  health  scourges,  18 — David 
Starr  Jordan's  view,  19 — Alcohol  and  the  death  rate,  19 — Whom  shall 
we  fellow,  20 — Our  greatest  enemy,  20 — Not  interested  in  drunken 
prattle,  20 — Let  us  be  orthodox,  21 — Liquor  laws  should  be  enforced, 
21 — The  way  to  strength  and  power,  21 — May  we  resolve,  22. 

McKay,  President  David  0   97 

Changeless  truths  in  a  changing  world,  97 — A  glorious  age,  98 — Threat- 
ening dangers,  98 — Moral  ideals  and  spiritual  teaching  lacking,  99 — 
Fundamentals  taught  by  Jesus,  100 — The  existence  of  a  personal  God, 
100 — Sacredness  of  human  personality,  101 — Spiritual  communion  a 
reality,  101 — Free  agency,  102. 

Rich,  Elder  Abel  S   53 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   28 

Evidences  of  faithfulness  and  devotion,  28 — The  Lord's  purpose,  28 — 
Our  Captain's  platform  of  principles,  29 — The  will  of  the  Lord,  29 — 
God's  mouthpiece  unto  us,  30 — Consistent  and  conscientious  action,  30. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand   74 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   94 

Intelligence  required  in  spiritual  things.  94 — Worldly  philosophies  af- 
fecting youth,  94 — Influence  of  teachers,  95 — Significance  of  law,  96 — 
The  Gospel  a  message  of  love,  96. 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E„  Jr   36 

Salzner,  Elder  Francis   .'   71 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   65 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   44 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   79 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert  118 

Believing  their  professions,  118 — Our  belief — Is  it  demonstrated  by  our 
conduct?  119 — Because  of  failure  to  heed  advice,  119 — Violating  the 
Sabbath,  119 — Other  commandments  violated,  120 — Need  for  repent- 


ance, 121 — Observance  of  commandments  necessary,  121 — Net  ashamed 
of  truth,  122 — Our  Father's  work,  122. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   12 

Scriptural  promises  to  obedient,  12 — Blessings  forfeited,  13 — Wherein 
we  have  failed,  13 — Plea  for  Sabbath  observance,  14 — A  proper  ob- 
servance of  the  Sabbath,  IS — Need  for  repentance,  15. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G   26 

Srrioot,  Elder  Reed  .'  115 

Living  up  to  principles  we  believe,  116 — At  the  White  House,  116 — 
Visit  with  Theodore  Roosevelt,  117-^Prayer  for  country  and  Church, 
117. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H  117 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  105 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting     90 

Tingey,  Elder  Clarence  H   70 

Wells,  Elder  John   40 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   56 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   77 


A  Few  of  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
"Mormon  ism" 


The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete. 

Missionary  Edition     #  .50 

Cloth  binding,  embossed    1.50 

Full   Morocco    3.00 

The  Gospel  and  Mans  Relationship  to 

Deity 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price   .  #1.25 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormonism" 


BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 
entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

Cloth   $  .75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 
Bound  in  Art  Cloth    #1.00 

This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


"Mormonism 

and  ( 

Freemasonry 

By 

Anthony  W.  Ivins 


"This  brief  treatise  is  addressed  primarily  to  the  members 
of  the  Masonic  fraternity.  The  author  requests  Masons  and 
others  who  may  read  it  to  patiently  consider  its  contents,  and 
in  a  spirit  of  fairness  and  reason  determine  whether  the 
ground  taken  by  the  writer  is  truth  or  error." 


Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

+  2%  Sales  Tax  in  Utah 
Distributed  by  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


