ONE-HUNDRED  AND  FIRST 


1 

36" 
I 


ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  4,  5,  6,  1931 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


CA  t&hrilling  Story  of 

CENTURY  ONE  OF 
CHURCH  HISTORY 

r  ur  IF.  RE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
LmmJ  pleteness  and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
1kS6£™  with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time  win 
the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a  COM- 
PREHENSIVE HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H.  Roberts 
has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set  down  the 
record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  brilliant  appraisal  of 
momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a  sentimental  interest  will 
be  fascinated  with  this  narrative  of  truth  stranger  than  fiction; 
the  reader  who  approaches  the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision 
of  the  historian  will  find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact, 
copious  in  detail  and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was  writ- 
ten  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaustively  complete, 
from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close  of  the  Centennial 
Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final  volume  ends  with  an 
account  of  the  Conference  itself,  making  the  history  technically 
inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in  Century  One  of  the  organized 
existence  of  the  Church.  Thus  it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of 
one  hundred  years  of  struggle  and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  history 
of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in  AMERICANA, 
running  serially  for  six  years  through  that  magazine,  yet  this 
History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of  material,  new  in  method 
of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical  representation  of  the  book 
maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Dcscrct  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  First  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  First  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday,  April  4,  5  and  6, 
1931.    President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  fj.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney, 
David  O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen 
L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  John  A. 
Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch:  Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  pf  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  and  Rey.  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  *. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  from  the  various  Stakes 
of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies,  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  [Board  of  Education,  and  general,  stake, 
and  ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents :  John  A.  Widtsoe,  European  Mission ;  Arthur 
Gaeth,  Czechoslovakia;  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States;  Noah  S.  Pond, 
Northern  States;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States;  Samuel  O. 
Bennion,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ;  Charles 
A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas;  Elias  S. 

*A.  William  Lund  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Woodruff,  Western  States;  William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States; 
John  V.  Bluth,  Canlada;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico;. Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
California ;  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  10  o'clock, 
Saturday,  April  4th,  1931. 

All  the  brethren  of  the  iGeneral  Authorities  of  the  Church  were 
present  and  seated  on  the  stands,  and  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium 
and  galleries  were  filled,  the  attendance  being  unusually  large  for  a 
week-day  session  of  Conference. 

President  Heber  J,  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening 
hymn,  "Now  let  us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation,"  which  was  sung 
by  the  congregation. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wilford  A.  Beesley, 
President  of  the  Salt  Lake  IStake. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth  ?" 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  do  not  recall  that  at  a  first  session  of  a  General  Conference  held 
on  a  week  day  I  have  ever  seen  as  large  an  attendance  as  we  have  here 
today.  I  rejoice  in  the  interest  of  the  Saints  in  our  Annual  and  Semi-An- 
nual  Conferences.  It  is  a  remarkable  thing  for  people  by  the  thousands 
to  come  from  all  parts  of  the  United  States,  also  from  Canada  and 
Mexico,  to  these  meetings.  It  shows  the  interest,  the  faith  and  the  love 
of  the  people  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  has  been  revealed  in  our 
day.  On  behalf  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  I  welcome 
you  here.  I  earnestly  and  sincerely  pray  that  while  we  are  assembled  to- 
gether we  may  be  blessed  of  the  Lord,  that  those  who  speak  and  pray  and 
sing  may  do  so  under  the  inspiration  that  comes  from  our  Heavenly 
Father. 

It  has  been  customary  for  very  many  years  to  read  to  the  people  a 
statement  of  expenditures  and  statistical  matters  at  our  Annual  Con- 
ferences. 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1930  are  as  follows : 
Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  Stakes  and 
Wards  for  the  construction  of  Ward  and  Stake  meet- 
ing houses   $  887,678.43 

For  Ward  maintenance  expense   590,792.34 

For  Stake  maintenance  expense  '   271,983.42 


Total 


$1,750,454.19 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  School  System. .  .$811,622.19 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Temples.  .$196,898.81 
Charities : 

For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable  pur- 


poses, including  hospital  treatment  $203,091.41 

Missions : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings 
in  the  missions  $916,543.59 


I  believe  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  at  no  time  in  the  history  of  the 
Church  has  there  been  so  much  expended  in  our  Missions  as  during  the 
past  two  or  three  years,  including  the  year  that  has  just  closed. 
The  grand  total  of  these  appropriations  from  the  tithes 
and  resources  of  the  Church  is  $3,878,610.1° 

These  funds  have  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  Church  invest- 
ments and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the  Saints  for  the  main- 
tenance and  operation  of  the  Stakes  and  Wards,  for  the  maintenance  and 
operation  of  Church  schools  and  temples,  for  charities  and  mission 
activities. 

Other  Charities: 

In  addition  to  charities  paid  from  the  tithes  as  before  named, 
there  has  also  been  disbursed  the  fast  offerings,  other 
charities  and  assistance  rendered  by  the  Relief  Society  in 
the  sum  of  $464,404.39,  which  amount,  added  to  the 
$203,091.41  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes  the  total  charity 
assistance  rendered  by  the  Church  $667,495.80 

There  has  been  collected  by  the  various  Wards  of  the  Church 

and  paid  to  missionaries  to  assist  in  their  maintenance. $100,685.08 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE  ANNUAL  REPORTS  FOR 

THE  YEAR  1930 

We  have  at  the  present  time:  Stakes  of  Zion,  104;  Wards,  926; 
Independent  Branches,  74 ;  Dependent  Branches,  33 ;  Total  Wards  and 
Branches  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  1033 ;  Missions, 
30 ;  Mission  Branches,  873  ;  Districts,  246. 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in 

the  Stakes  and  Missions  20,021 

Children  baptized  in  the  iStakes  and  Missions  15,313 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Stakes  and 

Missions    6.758 


4  *  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1930  1,889 
Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1930  52 
Number  of  local  missionaries   107 


Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions . . .  2,048 
Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  Stakes   1,000 


Total  missionaries   3,048 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Missionary 

Home    812 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  Stakes  and  Mis- 
sions 69,109 

SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  29.7  per  thousand. 

Marriage  rate,  13.9  per  thousand. 

Death  rate,  7.6  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  68  per  cent. 

CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  MISSION  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 

CONFERENCE 

Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

Anthon  E.  Anderson  has  been  appointed  president  of  Logan  Stake 
to  succeed  Oliver  H.  Budge. 

Harold  B.  Lee  has  been  appointed  president  of  Pioneer  Stake  to 
succeed  Datus  E.  Hammond. 

Jesse  W.  Richins  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Twin  Falls 
Stake  to  succeed  William  A.  Hyde. 

J.  Emmett  Bird  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Kolob  Stake 
to  succeed  George  R.  Maycock. 

Almon  iiT.  Butterfield  has  been  appointed  President  of  the  West 
Jordan  Stake  to  succeed  Joseph  M.  Holt. 

Thomas  A.  King  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Garfield 
Stake  to  succeed  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr. 

Francis  W.  Stratford,  has  teen  appointed  president  of  the  North 
Weber  Stake  to  succeed  John  V.  Bluth. 
New  Mission  Organized : 

Texas  Mission,  with  headquarters  at  Houston,  Texas. 
ew  Mission  Presidents : 

Charles, E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  Texas 
Mission. 

Charles  H.  Hart  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Canadian 
Mission,  and  John  V.  Bluth  appointed  to  succeed  him. 
New  Wards  Organized : 

Ogden  21st  Ward,  Ogden  Stake. 

Wilmington  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

Maywood  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake. 
Stake  Presidents  who  have  passed  away : 

George  R.  Maycock,  president  of  the  Kolob  Stake. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


Joseph  M.  Holt,  president  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake. 

I  attended  the  funerals  of  these  two  Presidents  and  the  tributes 
paid  to  them  were  of  the  most  excellent  character.    Their  labors  were 
splendid  and  their  families  have  our  sympathy  and  our  prayers  that  they 
may  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  these  two  splendid  men. 
Bishops  who  have  passed  away : 

William  T.  Harkness  of  the  Magna  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake. 

John  L.  Fish  of  Lakeside  Ward,  Snowflake  Stake. 
Others  who  have  passed  away : 

Peter  G.  Johnston,  one  of  the  Church  Auditing  Committee  for  many 
years. 

Benjamin  Goddard,  formerly  manager  of  the  Bureau  of  Informa- 
tion from  its  inception  until  just  prior  to  his  death. 

George  C.  Smith,  secretary  for  many  years  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir. 

Zina  Young  Card,  daughter  of  President  Brigham  Young,  and 
active  in  Church  work  from  her  young  girlhood  days. 

Brigham  Morris  Young,  son  of  Brigham  Young,  loyal  and  true 
all  the  days  of  his  life  to  the  Church  and  its  interests  and  a  worker  in 
the  Salt  Lake  Temple  from  the  day  it  was  dedicated  until  the  time  of 
his  death. 

Evan  Stephens,  formerly  director  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  one 
of  the  men  tb  whom  we  owe  so  much — to  him  and  Brother  George 
Careless,  perhaps  more  than  almost  to  any  other  men — for  writing  our 
beautiful  hymns  and  for  taking  such  a  deep  interest  in  all  of  our  musical 
affairs. 

DECRIES  PROPAGANDA 

I  desire  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  members  of  the  Church 
some  very  regrettable  and  most  annoying  circumstances.  I  have  taken 
occasion  in  times  past  to  denounce  the  conduct  of  persons  both  within 
and  without  the  Church  who  have  palpably  sought  to  bring  disgrace 
upon  the  Church  and  reproach  to  its  leaders  in  the  circulation  of  propa- 
ganda for  and  the  unlawful  practice  of  pretended  "plural  marriage." 
Notwithstanding  the  positive,  unequivocal  declarations  which  I  have 
made  from  time  to  time  on  this  subject,  and  in,  spite  of  the  vigorous  and 
unvarying  prosecution  within  the  courts  of  the  Church,  from  the  tribu- 
nals of  the  bishops  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  of  cases  arising 
out  of  violations  of  the  law  of  the  Church  forbidding  absolutely  the 
practice  of  plural  marriage — notwithstanding  all  these  efforts  on  the 
part  of  the  authorities  of  the  Church  to  suppress  the  unlawful  practices 
and  propaganda  of  these  people,  we  find  that  there  are  still  a  number, 
relatively  small  we  hope,  who  persist  in  teaching  the  doctrine  and 
maligning  the  leaders  of  the  Church. 

PUNISHED  WHEN  FOUND 

Wherever  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  have  been  able  to  locate 
such  persons  and  secure  sufficient  definite  evidence  to  warrant'  their 
conviction,  they  have,  without  fear  or  favor,  been  dealt  with  and  ex- 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


communicated  from  the  Church.  This  procedure  is  the  limit  of  Church 
jurisdiction.  We  have  been,  however,  and  we  are  entirely  willing  and 
anxious  too  that  such  offenders  against  the  law  of  the  State  should  be 
dealt  with  and  punished  as  the  law  provides.  We  have  been  and  we 
are  willing  to  give  such  legal  assistance  as  we  legitimately  can  in  the 
criminal  prosecution  of  such  cases.  We  are  willing  to  go  to  such  limits 
not  only  because  we  regard  it  as  our  duty  as  citizens  of  the  country  to 
assist  in  the  enforcement  of  the  law  and  the  suppression  of  pretended 
"plural  marriages,"  but  also  because  we  wish  to  do  everything  humanly 
possible  to  make  our  attitude  toward  this  matter  so  clear,  definite,  and 
unequivocal  as  to  leave  no  possible  doubt  of  it  in  the  mind  of  any 
person. 

TO  PROTECT  THE  UNWARY 

There  are  always  to  be  found  in  any  large  group  of  people  some 
who  are  uninformed,  credulous,  and  easily  susceptible  to  the  persuasions 
of  more  forceful  personalities.  Such  persons  are  often  well-meaning 
and  at  heart  very  devoted  to  the  Church.  It  is  a  matter  of  sorrow  and 
deep  regret  to  us  that  some  such  members  of  the  Church  have  been 
inveigled  by  designing  men  and  fanatics  into  the  support  and  practice 
of  unlawful  relations.  It  is  largely  for  the  protection  of  such  class  of 
people  within  the  Church  and  similarly  minded  converts  to  the  Church 
that  we  feel  the  necessity  of  stressing  this  unpleasant  subject  so  much. 

The  machinations  of  the  proponents  of  unlawful  marriages  are,  of 
course,  carried  on  largely  in  secret.  The  Church  has  no  adequate  way 
of  thwarting  their  endeavors  before  much  harm  is  often  done;  although 
the  officers  of  the  Church,  from  the  highest  to  the  least,  are  definitely 
instructed  to  be  constantly  "on  the  watch  for  such  teaching  and  propa- 
gandists. We  have  hesitated  somewhat  to  make  public  statements  or 
denials  to  charges  and  false  assertions  published  in  literature  sent  out 
by  these  enemies  of  the  Church  and  its  administration,  because  we  have 
felt  that- added  publicity  to  their  pernicious  statements  would  he  gratify- 
ing to  them  and  probably  useless  in  stemming  their  activity.  There  is 
scarcely  a  man  among  the  leading  authorities  who  has  not  been  defamed 
by  them,  both  in  print  and  speech. 

WIDELY  CIRCULATED 

They  have  circulated  their  literature  as  widely  as  possible  with 
their  available  means,  even  sending  defamatory  pamphlets  to  the  mis- 
sionaries of  the  Church  in  their  fields  of  labor,  extending  to  Europe. 
We  suppose  that  in  sbme  instances  this  material  may  fall  into  the  hands 
of  investigators,  weak  members  of  the  Church,  and  others  who  already, 
by  reason  of  misrepresentation,  are  prejudiced  against  us.  There  are 
some,  undoubtedly,  among  these  who  give  credence  to  that  which  they 
read,  although,  of  course,  we  should  be  able  to  expect  and  we  do  ex- 
pect that  no  missionary  of  the  Church  would  credit  such  false  asser- 
tions. 

FALSE  AND   SLANDEROUS  STATEMENTS 

These  publications  are  not  only  slanderous  of  the  leaders  of  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  7 

! 

Church  but  they  are  calculated  to  cast  a  blemish  on  the  fair  name  of  our 
State.  Their  authors  are  apparently  without  conscience  as  to  the  truth 
of  their  statements,  seeking  only  to  influence  those  who  are  uninformed 
and  gullible.  They  have  charged  me  and  many  of  my  brethren  here  with 
the  commission  of  crime  and  have  manufactured  circumstances  as  fic- 
titious as  the  imagination  may  conceive.  We  have  felt  that  it  was 
beneath  us  to  make  reply  to  such  false  and  malignant  accusations.  We 
have  believed  that  neither  the  people  of  the  Church  nor  those  outside  the 
Church  with  whom  we  live  as  neighbors  and  fellow  citizens  would  expect 
us  to  answer.  If  there  are  any  of  our  brothers  or  sisters  or  friends  who 
feel  that  there  are  any  circumstances  which  warrant  an  answer  or 
defense  on  our  part,  we  assure  any  such  we  shall  be  glad  to  satisfy  them 
on  their  request.  And  when  we  say  our  friends  we  mean  our  friends, 
not  those  who  write  anonymous  letters,  or  individuals  who  make  false 
statements  about  us. 

Perhaps  we  are  presumptuous,  but  we  feel  that  our  standing  in  the 
community  as  men  of  integrity  and  honor  is  a  sufficient  rebuttal  to  these 
infamous  charges  made  against  us. 

PRESIDENT  WIDTSOE  MALIGNED 

In  most  instances  the  misrepresentations  and  false  accusations 
have  been  made  by  way  of  recital  and  innuendo,  with  an  apparent  effort 
to  shield  the  authors  and  publishers  from  legal  responsibility.  In  one 
recent  instance,  however,  they  have  been  bold  enough  to  print  a  libelous 
attack  on  President  John  A.  Widtsoe,  supposedly  because  they  knew 
of  his  expected  presence  here  for  conference.  The  circumstances  recited 
are  wholly  fictitious  and  false,  and  are  presented,  undoubtedly,  with  the. 
purpose  of  creating  prejudice  against'  him  and  injuring  his  work  in 
Europe.  We  think  that  the  high  esteem  in  which  Doctor  Widtsoe  is 
held,  not  only  in  the  Church  but  in  his  State  and  as  a  national  figure, 
makes  unnecessary  any  reply  to  such  calumny.  However,  if  he  desires 
he  may  have  the  facilities  we  can  afford  to  protect  himself  and  to  prose- 
cute the  defamers  of  his  good  name. 

ABSOLUTELY  FORBIDDEN 

Now,  in  conclusion,  let  me  state  again,  as  I  have  done  many  times 
before — and  my  statement  is  meant  for  every  member  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  for  our  neighbors  and  friends  who 
dwell  in  the  communities  where  we  live,  and  for  the  whole  world — 
that  the  Church  does  not  countenance,  aid,  abet,  tolerate  or  sanction 
in  any  way,  shape  or  form  the  contracting  of  so-called  "plural  mar- 
riages," but  that  on  the  contrary  it  absolutely  forbids  the  members  of  the 
Church  from  entering  into  any  such  unlawful  relations  .or  teaching  or 
encouraging  such  practices,  and  that'  it  will  continue  in  the  future  as  it 
has  done  in  the  past  to  deal  with  and  punish  to  the  extent  of  its  author- 
ity any  persons  who  violate  these  injunctions.  I  do  not  know  how  to 
make  it  plainer  or  more  forceful.    If  I  did  I  would  do  so. 

As  I  read  this  I  recall  that  the  statement  is  made  that  the  leaders 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Church  can  practice  these  things.  So  when  this  is  published  I  will 
say  that  this  applies  to  all  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  and  the 
members,  for  'fear  these  falsifiers  will  start  another  falsehood. 

IT  HE  POSITION  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  want  the  officers  of  our  Church,  our  missionaries,  all  who  in  any 
manner  represent  us,  to  know  beyond  any  doubt  whatsoever  that  this  is 
the  straightforward,  honest,  unequivocal  position  of  the  Church,  and  I 
want  them  all  to  know  that  any  person  or  persons  who  question  this 
assertion  cast  reflection  upon  the  honor  and  integrity  of  the  men  who 
stand  at  the  head  of  the  Church  as  its  General  Authorities,  for  this  state- 
ment sets  forth  not  only  my  own  views  and  purposes,  hut  it  is  sustained 
in  every  detail,  in  letter  and  in  spirit,  by  each  and  every  member  of  the 
First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Presiding 
Patriarch,  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric, 
to  whom  it  has  been  submitted  and  by  whom  it  has  been  unanimously 
approved. 

And  I  wish  to  say  that  I  want  it  understood  that  so  far  as  God 
gives  me  power  to  give  His  word  to  the  people,  it  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord. 

THE  PEOPLES'  WELFARE 

Now,  I  cannot  do  more.  Of  course  the  circumstances  to  which  I 
have  called  attention  are  very  provoking  a,nd  annoying  to  us.  It  is  easy 
to  become  angry  when  we  contemplate  the  harm  and  incalculable  injury 
that  some  of  these  perverted,  vicious  men  have  perpetrated  on  the 
Church,  but  I  do  not  speak  in  anger.  I  have  in  mind  only  the  welfare 
and  the  progress  of  the  great  cause  which  we  represent  and  love,  and  the 
people  who  are  within  the  Church  and  those  to  whom  we  are  carrying 
the  Gospel.  It  hurts  me  to  see  the  advancement  of  the  work  retarded 
by  such  regrettable  activities  within  the  Church  itself.  We  may  always 
expect  to  be  assailed  from  without,  but  it  seems  to  me  we  can  reasonably 
hope  that  within  the  Church  our  solemn  statements  of  fact  and  principle 
will  be  received  at  face  value. 

It  may  be  that  among  those  who  so  malign  the  Church  and  its  lead- 
ers are  some  who  are  conscientious  in  their  endeavors.  I  am  sorry  that 
they  are  so  simple  and  misguided  as  to  permit  themselves  to  be  allied 
with  those  who,  by  reason  of  their  propaganda  and  activity,  are  among 
the  most  malicious  enemies  of  the  Church.  I  pray  that  their  eyes  may  be 
opened  and  their  course  set  right.  I  pray  also  that  all  the  people  of  the 
Church  in  all  parts  of  the  world  may  unite  in  a  determined  effort  to 
abolish  from  the  inside  of  the  Church  at  least  these  insidious  efforts  and 
unlawful  practices  which  are  calculated  to  bring  so  much  reproach  upon 
us. 

DENIES  CHURCH  IN  DEBT 

The  same  people  who  are  publishing  these  slanderous  statements 
have  also  said  that  the  presiding  officers  of  the  Church  have  used  the 
credit  of  the  Church  and  involved  it  in  debt  to  the  extent  of  $23,000,- 
000.00,  mortgaging  its  property  to  secure  this  indebtedness. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


The  fact  is  that  during  my  administration  no  part  of  the  property 
of  the  Church  has  e'ver  been  mortgaged,  and  the  Church  itself  is  entirely 
free  from  debt. 

In  proof  of  what  I  have  said,  I  read  the  statement  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee,  as  follows : 

"April  4th,  1931. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors, 
Dear  Brethren: 

It  gives  us  pleasure  )to  state  that  our  examination  of  the  reports  of  the 
First  Presidency's  office,  which  covered  the  Presiding  Bishop's  department, 
disclosed  the  fact  that  the  Church  is  entirely  out  of  debt. 

The  accounting  system  of  the  Church  is  modern  and  complete. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Henry  H.  Rolapp, 
O.  W.  Adams, 

Auditing  Committee." 

CONTRARY  TO  LAW 

It  is  against  the  law  of  the  land  to  enter  into  polygamy.  In  sec- 
tion 58  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  find  the  following : 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  law  shall  be  kept  on  this  land. 

"Let  no  man  think  he  is  ruler;  but  let  God  rule  him  that  judgeth,  according 
to  the  counsel  of  his  own  will,  or,  in  other  words,  him  that  counseleth  or  sitteth 
upon  the  judgment  seat. 

"Let  no  man  break  the  laws  of  the  land,  for  he  that  keepeth  the  laws  of  God 
hath  no  need  to  break  the  laws  of  the  land." 

"Wherefore,  be  subject  to  the  powers  that  be,  until  he  reigns  whose  right  it  is 
to  reign,  and  sub'dues  all  enemies  under  his  feet." 

STATEMENT  SUSTAINED 

I  would  like  all  those  in  this  congregation  who  feel  to  sustain  tHs 
statement  that  I  have  read  to  you  to  manifest  it  as  the  Apostles  and  all 
of  the  General  Authorities  have  done,  by  raising  their  right  hands. 

(The  congregation  responded  by  raising  their  hands). 

I  have  never  seen  such  a  lot  of  hands  held  so  high  in  my  life. 

All  those  who  are  opposed  to  this  statement  will  please  raise  their 
hands. 

(No  hands  were  raised). 

Our  enemies  do  not  seem  to  be  here. 

QUOTES  PROPHET'S  PRAYER 

The  Prophet  Joseph,  at  the  dedication  of  the  Kirtland  Temple,  in 
the  prayer  offered  on  that  occasion,  among  other  things  said : 

"We  ask  thee,  Holy  Father,  to  confound  and  astonish,  and  to  bring  to 
shame  and  confusion,  all  those  who  have  spread  lying  reports  abroad,  over  the 
world,  against  thy  servant  or  servants,  if  they  will  not  repent,  when  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  shall  be  proclaimed  in  their  ears; 

"And  that  all  their  works  may  be  brought  to  naught,  and  be  swept  away 
by  the  hail,  and  by  the  judgments  which  thou  wilt  send  upon  them  in  thine 
anger,  that  there  may  be  an  end  to  lyings  and  slanders  against  thy  people." 

We  say  Arnen  to  the  prophet's  prayer  on  that  occasion. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


READS   FROM  SCRIPTURES 

In  my  remarks  today  I  desire  to  read  from  the  holy  scriptures  some 
of  the  words  of  the  Savior,  and  also  from  the  revelations  that  have  come 
to  us  in  our  day. 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistles? 

"Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring 
forth  good  fruit. 

"Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down  and  cast  into 
the  fire. 

"Wherefore,  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them." 

What  kind  of  fruits  do  the  people  to  whom  I  have  referred  bring 
forth?  I  know  of  no  more  outrageous  falsifying  in  my  life  than  has  been 
indulged  in  by  these  people.  One  man  by  the  name  of  Lorin  C.  Wbolley 
said  that  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  Heber  J.  Grant  went  to  Los  Angeles, 
that  he  followed  them,  that  they  went  into  a  hotel  and  that  Anthony  W. 
Ivins  married  a  plural  wife  to  Heber  J.  Grant. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  Heber  J.  Grant  were  never  in  a  hotel  together 
in  Los  Angeles.  Heber  J.  Grant  has  never  suggested  to  any  human  being 
during  his  entire  administration  as  President  of  the  Church  that  any- 
body should  ever  enter  into  plural  marriage.  On  the  contrary,  every 
man  or  woman  who  has  ever  opened  his  or  her  mouth  to  him  on  this 
subject  he  has  taught  to  the  contrary.  ^ 

"And  everyone  that  heareth  these  sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man,  which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand, ; 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the  floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house ;  and  it  fell :  and  great  was  the  fall  of  it." 

Those  who  have  heard  my  counsel  for  at  least  twelve  years,  to  say 
nothing  of  that  of  my  predecessors  and  others,  to  obey  the  laws  of  the 
land  and  do  not  do  it,  are  building  their  houses  upon  sand,  and  they  are 
absolutely  certain  to  fall. 

"Then  one  of  them,  which  was  a  lawyer,  asked  him  a  question,  tempting 
him,  and  saying, 

"Master,  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

"This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 
"On  these  two  commandments  hang  all  the  law  and  the  prophets." 

THE  BARLOW  CASE 

I  call  to  mind  that  we  tried  a  man  by  the  name  of  Barlow  for  enter- 
ing into  pretended  plural  marriage  years  ago.  This  man  brought  to  us 
a  letter  purporting  to  come  from  Owen  Woodruff,  who  was  dead, 
telling  him  to  send  the  person  to  Mexico,  stating  that  Owen  Woodruff 
married  this  girl  to  him.  And  there  was  not  a  word  of  truth  in  it.  I 
went  to  his  stenographer  and  confronted  her,  and  she  acknowledged  that 


■  l_ 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  11 

she  wrote  the  postscript  on  the  letter  herself.  After  Owen  Woodruff 
had  been  dead  for  years  a  man  whose  name  I  will  not  mention  because  he 
repented  of  his  sins,  acknowledged  that  he  performed  that  marriage. 

What  do  you  think  of  such  falsifiers  talking  about  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  apostatizing  and  that  they  are  the  reformers? 

FAITH  AND  WORKS 

"What  doth  it  profit,  my  brethren,  though  a  man  say  he  hath  faith,  and 
have  not  works?  can  faith  'save  him? 

"If  a  brother  or  sister  be  naked,  and  destitute  of  daily  food, 

"And  one  of  you  say  unto  them,  Depart  in  peace,  be  ye  warmed  and  filled ; 
notwithstanding  ye  give  them  not  those  things  which  are  needful  to  the  body; 
what  doth  it  profit? 

"Even  so  faith,  if  it  hath  not  works,  is  dead,  being  alone. 

"Yea,  a  man  may  say,  Thou  hast  faith,  and  I  have  works;  show  me  thy 
faith  without  thy  iworks,  and  I  'will  show  thee  my  faith  by  my  works. 

"Thou  believest  that  there  is  one  God;  thou  doest  well,  the  devils  also 
believe,  and  tremble. 

"But  wilt  thou  know,  O  vain  man,  that  faith  without  works  is  dead?" 

*      *  sfc 

"For  as  the  body  without  the  spirit  is  dead,  so  faith  without  works  is  dead 
also." 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  people  of  great  faith.  But  I  regret 
exceedingly  that  there  are  many,  among  us  who  fail  to  ido  the  works  of 
God.  We  fail  to  live  up  to  the  requirements  of  the  Lord.  I  am  sorry 
that  there  are  scores  and  hundreds  of  people  who  are  not  living  the 
Gospel  as  they  should  do  and  observing  to  be  honest,  conscientious  tithe- 
payers,  observers  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  who  are  not  doing  the 
other  things  that  devolve  upon  us.  Let  us  reform.  Let  us  show  our 
love  of  our  fellows  by  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  and  setting 
an  example  before  them  that  shall  be  worthy  of  imitation  in  all  respect's. 

QUOTES  FORMER  SPEECH  . 

I  recall  that  on  the  first  of  June,  twelve  years  ago — we  had  not 
been  able  to  hold  a  conference  immediately  following  the  death  of  our 
beloved  and  revered  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  in  November,  because 
of  an  epidemic  of  disease  that  existed — I  was  sustained  to  be  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  and  I  wish  to  quote  a  part  of  what  I  said  at  that 
time : 

"I  feel  humble  beyond  any  language  with  which  God  has  endowed  me  to 
express  it,  in  standing  here  before  you  this  morning  occupying  the  position  in 
which  you  have  jjust  voted  to  sustain  me.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  liberal 
with  his  means  than  I  am  with  mine,  in  proportion  to  what  he  possesses,  for 
the  advancement  of  God's  kingdom.  I  /will  ask  no  man  (to  observe  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  any  more  closely  than  I  will  observe  it.  I  will  ask  no  iman  to  be  more 
conscientious  and  prompt  in  the  payment  of  his  tithes  and  offerings  than  I  will 
be.  I  will  ask  no  man  to  be  more  ready  and  willing  to  come  early  and  to  go 
late,  and  to  labor  with  full  power  of  mind  and  body,  than  I  will  labor,  always 
in  humility.  I  hope  and  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  acknowledging  freely 
and  frankly  that  without  the  Lord's  blessing  it  will  be  an  impossibility  for  me 
to  make  a  success  of  the  high  calling  whereunto  I  have  been  called.  But  like 
Nephi  of  old,  I  know  that  the  Lord  makes  no  requirements  of  the  children  of 
men,  save  he  will  prepare  a  way  for  them  whereby  they  can  accomplish  the 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


thing  which  he  has  required.  [With  this  knowledge  in  my  heart  I  accept  the 
great  responsibility  without  fear  of  the  consequences,  knowing  that  God  will 
sustain  ime  as  he  has  sustained  all  of  my  predecessors  who  have  joccupied 
this  position,  provided  always  that  I  shall  labor  in  humility  and  diligence,  ever 
seeking  the  guidance  of  the  IHoly  Spirit  ;  and  this  I  shall  endeavor  to  do." 

PLEDGE  KEPT 

Twelve  years  have  passed  away.  But  I  can  honestly  and  conscien- 
tiously say  to  this  large  assembly  that  I  have  day  by  day,  month  by 
month,  and  year  by  year,  lived  up  to  that  pledge  which  I  made  at  that 
time. 

COUNSEL  FROM  THE  LORD 

The  Lord  says: 

"Draw  near  unto  me  and  I  will  draw  near  unto  you;  seek  me  diligently  and 
ye  shall  find  me ;  ask,  and  ye  shall  receive ;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  ypu. 

"Whatsoever  ye  ask  the  jFather  in  my  name  it  shall  be  given  unto  you,  that 
is  expedient  for  you; 

"And  if  ye  ask  anything  that  is  not  expedient  for  you,  it  shall  turn  unto 
your  condemnation."  *  *  * 

"And  as  ye  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye  diligently  and  teach  one  another  words 
of  wisdom ;  yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books  words  of  wisdom ;  seek  learning, 
even  by  study  and  also  by  faith." 

Again  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"See  that  ye  love  one  another;  cease  lo  be  covetous;  learn  to  impart  one 
to  another  as  the  gospel  requires.* 

"Cease  to  be  idle;  cease  to  be  unclean;  cease  to  find  fault  one  with  another; 
cease  to  sleep  longer  than  is  needful ;  retire  to  thy  bed  early,  that  ye  may  not 
be  weary;  arise  early,  that  your  bodies  land  your  minds  may  be  invigorated. 

"And  above  all  things,  clothe  yourselves  with  the  bond  of  charity,  as  with 
a  mantle,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness  and  peace." 

NOT  NECESSARY  TO  BE  COMMANDED 

I  would  like  to  read  you  the  whole  of  this  section  known  as  Section- 
Fifty-eight,  but  I  see  that  the  time  has  practically  expired,  so  I  will 
read  only  a  part  of  it. 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  .things ;  for  he 
that  is  compelled  in  all  ithings,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant; 
wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward." 

I  have  met  any  number  of  people  who  have  said  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  is  not  a  command  from  the  Lord,  that  it  is  not  given 'by  way 
of  commandment.  But  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  the  will  of  the  Lord 
and  the  Lord  says  in  the  words  that  I  have  just  read  that  it  is  not 
meet  that  we  should  be  commanded  in  all  things.  If  you  love  your 
neighbor  as  yourself,  if  you  love  'God  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind 
and  strength,  does  he  need  to  command?  No. 

Listen  to  the  following: 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness." 

Can  you,  by  your  own  free  will,  accomplish  righteousness  in  the 
world  as  well  by  failing  to  obey  the  will  of  the  Lord  as  you  can  by 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


obeying  it?  I  say  No.  One  of  the  best  ways  in  all  the  world  to  bring 
to  pass  much  righteousness  is  to  set  an  example  as  a  conscientious,  God- 
fearing Latter-day  Saint,  observing  all  of  the  requirements  of  the  Lord. 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth  a 
commandment  with  a  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the  same 
is  damned.  ' 

"Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the  Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless  that 
obeys  not  my  commandments?  I 

"Who  am  I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  have  promised  and  have  not  fulfilled? 

"I  command  and  men  obey  not;  I  revoke  and  they  receive  not  the  blessing. 

"Then  they  say  in  their  hearts :  This  is  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  his 
promises  are  not  fulfilled.  But  wo  unto  such,  for  their  reward  lurketh  beneath, 
and  not  from  above." 

I  commend  the  entire  section  for  your  perusal. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  KNOWLEDGE 

I  rejoice  beyond  all  the  power  that  God  has  given  me  to  express 
my  feelings  for  the  knowledge  that  God  is  directing  the  affairs  of  the 
Church  of  Christ.  I  rejoice  beyond  all  the  ability  that  I  have  to  express 
my  feelings  that  he  has  given  me  a  knowledge  of  the  divine  mission  of 
our  Savior,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  I 
am  happy  beyond  expression  to  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  the  living  God  and  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  of  restoring 
again  to  the  earth  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  with  the  power  and  priest- 
hood given  to  him  by  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  held 
that  authority  when  they  were  here  upon  the  earth. 

PRIESTHOOD   PROPERLY  EXERCISED 

I  rejoice  in  knowing  that  the  Lord  through  the  inspiration  of  his 
Spirit  has  guided  this  people  through  all  the  changing  scenes  through 
which  (we  have  had  to  go.  I  am  thankful  that  even  when  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  others  were  in  Liberty  Jail  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  great 
revelations  that  have  come  to  this  people  was  given  to  him.  I  rejoice 
in  knowing  that  all  these  charges  of  tyranny  and  oppression  and  of  a 
dictatorial  management  of  the  Church  are  absolutely  false.  There  is 
not  a  man  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  but'  that  desires  to 
do — what?  To  exercise  the  priesthood  exactly  as  the  Lord  says  it 
should  be  exercised,  and  I  will  read  the  identical  words.  I  really  do  not 
need  to  read  them  as  I  can  repeat  them  from  memory : 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  (by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile— 

-  "Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  towards  him  whom 
thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he1  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy;  ' 

"That  he  may  loiow  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of  death. 

"Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  household 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly ;  then  shall  thy  confidence 
wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood  shall 
distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

"The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth;  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto  thee 
forever  and  ever."  I 

The  enemies  of  the  prophet  could  imprison  him,  but'  he  had  access  to 
God  Almighty  and  was  inspired  and  blessed  of  him. 

May  the  Lord  help  every  one  of  us  who  professes  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  testifies  to  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged  to  live  it  in  honor,  in  virtue,  in  truth,  is  my  prayer,  that  our 
example  may  proclaim  by  our  works  the  truthfulness  of  it.  I  bear  testi- 
mony before  God  to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  [SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  endorse  fully  and  unequivocally,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  every 
word  that  has  been  spoken  by  President  Grant  this  morning.  I  sense 
the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  this  morning  in  speaking  to  you, 
and  trust  that  I  may  enjoy  your  confidence  in  that  which  I  may  say, 
that  I  may  be  led  to  speak  those  things  that  are  true  and  helpful. 

EASTER  CELEBRATION 

Throughout  the  Christian  world,  yesterday,  today  and  tomorrow, 
the  most  important  event  in  Christian  history,  and  in  the  earth  life  of 
Him  who  is  the  source  of  Christianity,  is  being  celebrated.  That  is 
the  crucifixion  and  resurrection  of  the  Savior.  The  Latter-day  Saints 
are  fully  in  accord  with  the  spirit  of  this  occasion.  Not  only  that,  but 
we  understand  also  that  this  is,  actually,  the  time  of  year  when  the 
Savior  was  born.  We  recognize  that  his  life  and  teachings,  and  the 
doctrines  which  he  declared,  are  divine.  We  accept  him  in  every 
sense  of  the  word  as  the  Son  of  God.  We  realize  that  his  atonement 
was  necessary,  that  men  might  come  unto  salvation,  receive  forgiveness 
for  the  transgression  of  Adam,  and  be  rescued  from  spiritual  death,  and 
have  the  opportunity  of  gaining  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the  presence 
of  the  Lord. 

RESURRECTION  AND  LIFE 

We  acknowledge  and  believe  fully  in  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead— the  literal  resurrection  of  the  body.  The  Savior  was  indeed  the 
first  fruits  of  the  resurrection.  Through  him  we  also  may  be  resur- 
rected. The  time  of  our  resurrection  will  depend  upon  our  works  here, 
and  upon  our  faith  and  action.  I  would  like  to  speak  for  a  moment 
in  regard  to  the  life  of  Christ.  "Though  he  were  a  Son,"  we  are  told, 
"yet  learned  he  obedience  by  the  things  which  he  suffered:  and  being 
made  perfect,  he  became  the  author  of  eternal  salvation  unto  all  them 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


15 


that  obey  him."  He  passed  through  practically  every  experience  that 
is  possible  for  man  to  experience.  He  walked  the  path  of  humility.  He 
said  to  the  people: 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give  you  rest. 
"Take  my  yoke  upon  you  and  learn  of  me;  For  I  am  meek  and  lowly 
in  heart :  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 
"For  my  yoke  is  easy  and  my  burden  is  light." 

POWER  IN  HUMILITY 

He  taught  them  the  spirit  of  humility,  and  exemplified  the  power 
therein.  There  is  a  vast'  difference  in  meaning  between  humility  and 
humiliation.  Humiliation  means  shame.  Humility  does  not  mean  lack 
of  self-respect.  It  means  strength  and  fortitude.  It  involves  high 
moral  courage.  It  leads  to  faith,  trust  in  God,  and  to  good  works. 
It  promotes  gratitude.  It  overcomes  vanity.  It  develops  the  strength 
to  stand  for  right  and  truth.  It  involves  clear  thinking  and  sound 
judgment,  because  those  who  are  humble  are  not  likely  to  be  misled  by 
the  trickeries  of  the  world.  It  is  evidenced  by  love  of  fellow-men. 
Humility  manifests  none  of  the  elements  of  hypocrisy  or  self-righteous- 
ness. Remember  the  Savior's  parable  of  the  Pharisee  and  the  publican. 
Humility  is  the  opposite  of  highmindedness  and  pride.  In  it  there  is 
safety.  Humility  tends  to  keep  people  level-headed.  Pride  overbalances 
them.  Pride  tends  to  blind  the  eyes  to  the  light  and  to  close  the  heart 
against  the  truth.  We  are  warned  continually  in  the  scriptures  with 
regard  to  the  dangers  of  pride,  and  advised  of  the  benefits  of  humility. 
We  have  listened  this  morning  to  the  testimony  of  President  Grant, 
given  at  the  time  he  accepted  this  position  as  the  President  of  the 
Church,  and  of  his  pledge  at  that  time  to  labor  in  humility  and  dili- 
gence for  the  welfare  of  this  work. 

HUMILITY  LEADS  TO  FAITH 

The  very  basis  of  this  work  is  the  spirit  of  humility,  of  striving  to 
understand  clearly  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  of  righteous  living.  So 
when  I  say  that  humility  leads  to  faith,  I  am  sure  that  all  of  you  who 
have  had  experience  in  the  mission  field  realize  that  only  those  who 
are  humble  in  their_  hearts  are  prepared  to  receive  the  truth  and  the 
light.  Those  who  are  proud  have  their  hearts  closed,  their  eyes  blinded, 
and  they  are  not  willing  to  receive  the  Gospel.  That  of  itself  is 
evidence  of  the  importance  of  so  living  in  lowliness  of  heart  that  we 
can  discern  clearly  between  right  and  wrong. 

CONTRITENESS  OF  SPIRIT  LEADS  TO  GOD 

Only  those  who  are  contrite  in  spirit  can  enter  into  the  presence  of 
God.    As  the  prophet  Isaiah  declared: 

"For  thus  saith  the  high  and  lofty  One  that  inhabiteth  eternity,  whose  name 
is  Holy :  I  dwell  in  the  high  and  holy  place,  with  him  also  that  is  of  a  contrite 
and  humble  spirit  to  revive  the  spirit  of  the  humble,  and  to  revive  the  heart 
of  the  contrite  ones." 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

The  Savior  illustrated  this  fundamental  requirement  when  he 
placed  a  child  in  the  midst  of  his  disciples,  saying :  "Whosoever,  there- 
fore, shall  humble  himself  as  this  little  child,  the  same  is  greatest  in  the 
kingdom  of  heaven."  On  another  occasion  he  declared :  "Whosoever 
shall  exalt  himself  shall  be  abased,  and  he  that  shall  humble  himself 
shall  be  exalted."  So  humility  is  a  means  of  triumph,  paradoxical  as 
that  may  sound.  But  that  triumph  is  not'  of  the  nature  sought  by 
those  who  are  proud  at  heart. 

HUMILITY  A  DIVINE  GIFT 

A  day  or  two  ago  I  read  a  newspaper  item  which  told  the  ex- 
perience of  an  able  and  intelligent  man,  who  in  the  pride  of  his  heart, 
had  committed  a  crime,  and  had  been  sent  to  prison.  He  had  been  in 
prison  for  some  time,  and  he  declared,  in  this  newspaper  statement, 
that  he  had  finally  found  humility,  and  used  this  expression:  "The 
gift  of  the  gods  is  humility."  Whatever  his  belief  in  a  Divine  Being 
may  be,  he  expressed,  at  least,  a  true  principle,  that  through  humility 
we  come  to  understanding,  repentance,  and  peace  of  mind. 

i       SPIRITUAL  EFFECTS  OF  DEPRESSION 

The  economic  depression  that  we  have  suffered  in  the  last  year 
and  a  half  has  had  a  serious  effect,  not  only  upon  the  financial  condition 
of  the  people  of  the  world,  but  upon  their  spiritual  attitude.  Evidences 
are  many  that,  as  a  result  of  this  adversity,  people  are  becoming  more 
humble,  are  cultivating  clearer  thinking,  and  greater  sanity.  If  the 
effect  of  these  unfavorable  economic  conditions  shall  be  to  cause  man- 
kind generally  to  resist  arrogance  and  to  promote  human  welfare,  then 
it  will  have  proven  a  benefit  in  disguise  to  that  extent  at  least.  Surely,  if 
there  is  anything  that  is  necessary  in  the  world  today  it  is  that  spirit 
expressed  by  the  prophet  Micah  : 

"He  hath  shewed  thee,  O  man,  what  is  good ;  and  what  doth  the  Lord 
require  of  thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy,  and  to  walk  humbly  with 
thy  God?" 

The  tendency  of  the  natural  man  is  toward  pride,  highmindedness 
and  covetousness,  a.s, stated  by  the  President  this  morning.  The  Spirit 
of  the  Lord,  which  should  guide  men,  is  the  spirit  of  humility,  of  faith, 
of  clear  thinking,  of  courage,  of  sound  judgment,  and  oi  the  desire 
for  truth  and  light.  History  of  nations  evidences  the  extent  of  their 
progress  as  a  result  of  their  attitude,  whether  it  has  been  that  of  pride 
and  haughtiness,  or  whether  it  has  been  that  of  right  living. 

PRIDE  LEADS  TO  DESTRUCTION  - 

Humility  is  a  state  of  mind,  and  not  a  condition,  necessarily,  of 
finances.  It  is  too  often  true  that  people  who  gain  financial  prosperity 
are  led  away  by  pride  of  the  heart  and  the  desire  for  the  things  of 
this  world.  As  I  read  history  there  has  been  no  nation  that  has  ever 
fallen  because  of  prevailing  humility  among  the  people.  But  there 
are  many  instances  of  downfall  due  to  pride.    So  long  as  nations  have 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


17 


maintained  a  humble  spirit  they  have  been  able  to  endure  and  to  grow ; 
but  whenever  they  have  become  steeped  in  pride,  they  have  been  led 
to  destruction.  When  Mary,  who  was  to  become  the  mother  of  the 
Savior,  came  to  Elizabeth,  the  mother  of  John  the  Baptist,  the  latter 
was  led  to  prophesy  these  words : 

"He  hath  put  down  the  mighty  from  their  seats,  and  exalted  them  of 
low  degree." 

The  wise  man,  Solomon,  declared: 

"When  pride  cometh,  then  cometh  shame :  but  with  the  lowly  is  wisdom.  *  *  * 

"Pride  goeth  before  destruction,  and  an  haughty  spirit  before  a  fall. 

"Better  is  it  to  be  of  an  humble  spirit  with  the  lowly,  than  to  divide  the 
spoil  with  the  proud.  *  *  * 

"Before  destruction  the  heart  of  man  is  haughty,  and  before  honor  is 
humility.  *  *  *  ; 

"By  humility  and  the  fear  of  the  Lord  are  riches  and  honor  and  life." 

DANGERS  IN  HIGH  PLACES 

There  is  a  tendency  very  often  for  men,  when  they  are  elected  to 
positions  in  public  office  by  the  people,  to  consider  that  they  possess  some 
superior  power  as  a  result  thereof.  I  arrj  reminded  of  a  statement 
made  by  former  President  Calvin  Cooldige.    He  said : 

"It  is  difficult  for  men  in  high  office  to  avoid  the  malady  of  self-delusion. 
They  are  always  surrounded  by  worshippers.  They  are  constantly,  and  for 
the  most  part  sincerely,  assured  of  their  greatness.  They  live  in  an  artificial 
atmosphere  of  adulation  and  exaltation,  which  sooner  or  later  imperils  their 
judgment.    They  are  in  grave  danger  of  becoming  careless  and  arrogant." 

Surely  we  should  ourselves  maintain,  and  we  should  influence 
not  only  all  of  the  officers  and  members  of  this  Church,  but  also,  as 
far  as  possible,  the  people  of  this,  the  greatest  nation  upon  the  earth 
today,  to  cultivate  and  maintain  a  spirit  of  lowliness  of  heart,  in  the 
midst  of  prosperity.  If  the  people  of  this  country  will  but  recognize 
the  source  of  the  blessings  which  they  enjoy,  realize  that  intelligence, 
judgment  and  ability  are  given  them  of  God,  and  that  they  should 
use  them  for  the  welfare  of  mankind,  and  not  solely  for  their  own  selfish 
aggrandizement,  then  this  nation  will  continue  to  grow  and  prosper, 
and  will  be  able  to  overcome  the  present  unfavorable  conditions.  The 
result  will  be  to  promote  greater  equality  among  men,  and  finer  con- 
sideration for  one  another.  On  the  contrary,  if  the  spirit  of  pride  and 
vain  ambition  shall  prevail  throughout  the  country;  then  the  future 
welfare  and  progress  of  this  nation,  or  any  rtation,  under  such  conditions, 
will  be  seriously  endangered.  ! 

With  the  increase  of  temporal  prosperity  among  us  as  a  people  in 
common  with  the  rest  of  the  country  generally  during  the  past  few 
years,  the  continuance  of  faith  and  devotion  to  the  Gospel  by  some  of 
those  who  have  been  successful  in  financial  affairs  is  jeopardized. 
Not  that  wealth  necessarily  means  loss  of  faith ;  but  there  is  an  un- 
conscious tendency  in  the  midst  of  success  to  supplant  humility  of 
spirit  with  high-mindedness.  We  tend  to  forget  our  obligations  to  the 
Lord,  and  our  need  to  obey  the  divine  commandments  and  to  impart 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  our  m#ans  to  build  up  his  work.  This  tendency  becomes  evident 
not  only  among  parents,  but  also,  and  particularly  so,  among  the 
children  through  indulgence  shown  them,  through  the  luxuries  which 
they  enjoy,  and  through  lack  of  instruction  and  obedience  to  divine 
principles.  What  is  the  result  under  such  conditions?  It  follows  that 
those  who  give  way  to  feelings  of  pride  lose  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel 
and  forfeit  their  enjoyment  of  spiritual  gifts  which  would  lead  them 
on  to  righteousness.  The  Church  suffers  through  their  neglect,  but 
they  suffer  far  more  through  the  loss  of  their  spiritual  standards. 

INSTANCES  OF  POWER  THROUGH  HUMILITY 

If  time  would  permit,  there  are  many  instances  that  could  be 
cited  of  men  in  high  places  who  have  shown  their  strength  by  their 
humility.  The  truly  great  are  possessed  of  humility  of  heart.  The 
Savior  is  the  most  outstanding  example.  Lowly  as  a  child,  strong  in 
courage,  fearless  in  declaring  the  truth,  determined  to  fulfil  his  respon- 
sible mission,  confident  of  his  position,  acknowledged  by  discerning 
men  for  his  capacity,  he  exemplified  fully  the  power  of  humility.  His 
apostles  showed  the  same  spirit.  Notwithstanding  they  were  endowed 
with  power  from  on  high,  yet  were  they  indeed  the  servants  of  the 
people.  In  these  days,  in  the  affairs  of  this  nation,  the  two  most  out- 
standing characters,  Washington  and  Lincoln,  demonstrated  this  same 
spirit.  In  the  Church,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  every  one  of  his 
successors,  as  well  as  the  other  Authorities  of  the  Church  generally, 
have  been  possessed  of  that  spirit  of  humility  in  the  midst  of  their 
great  responsibilities. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

We  have  heard  from  President  Grant  this  morning  the  recital  of  a 
part  of  Section  121  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  with  regard  to  the 
spirit  to  be  exercised  by  those  who  bear  the  priesthood.  Let  me  repeat 
a  portion  of  it : 

"Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

"Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world,  and 
aspire  to  the  honors' of  men.  *  *  * 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  (persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge." 

The  spirit  of  the  priesthood  is  indeed  the  spirit  of  humility,  of  faith, 
of  courage,  of  diligence,  of  confidence,  of  determination,  of  persistence 
for  the  right  and  the  truth,  and  of  consideration  for  our  fellow  men. 

I  desire  that  the  Lord  may  help  us  all  so  to  live  as  to  maintain  this 
spirit,  that  even  though  we  may  enjoy  prosperity  and  success,  we  may 
recognize  the  fact  that  these  things  come  to  us  through  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  and  that  we  should  impart  of  our  metans  for  the  cause  of  right- 
eousness. If  we  have  the  spirit  of  humility  we  shall  recognize  the 
importance  of  giving  of  our  means  and  our  time  for  this  cause,  which 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  19 

makes  for  the  welfare,  the  progress,  and  the  salvation  of  mankind 
generally. 

May  we  (all  strive  continually  "to  do  justly,  to  love  mercy,  and 
to  walk  humbly"  with  the  Lord,  I  earnestly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  great  gathering  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  for  religious  instruction,  and  it  is  to  be  expected  that  we  will 
here  be  taught  the  true  principles  of  religion.  Let  me  say  that  religion 
is  a  serious  and  solemn  thing — serious  for  the  reason  that  it  involves  the 
question  of  salvation,  individual  and  general  salvation,  and  this,  I 
take  it,  is  an  extremely  important  matter. 

god's  greatest  gift 

The  Lord  spoke  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  upon  one  occasion 
— you  will  find  it  recorded  in  a  revelation  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, Section  6,  the  thirteenth  paragraph — these  very  impressive  words : 

"If  thou  wilt  do  good,  yea,  and  hold  out  faithful  to  the  end,  thou  shalt  be 
saved  in  the  kingdom  <of  God,  which  is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God; 
for  there  is  no  gift  greater  than  the  gift  of  salvation." 

So  we  see  from  this  that  salvation  is  something  that  is  greatly  to 
be  desired. 

Permit  me  also,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  quote  a  very  significant 
passage  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  namely : 

"Adam  fell  that  men  might  be,  and  men  are  that  they  might  have  joy." 

WHAT  SALVATION  IS  AND  HOW  OBTAINED 

I  think  that  it  is  apparent  to  all  that  no  man  could  have  permanent 
joy  without  salvation.  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  defined  salvation, 
in  brief,  in  the  following  comprehensive  language: 

"Salvation  is  nothing  more  nor  less  than  to  triumph  over  all  our  enemies 
■    and  put  them  under  our  feet,  and  when  we  have  power  to  put  all  enemies  under 
our  feet  in  this  world,  and  a  knowledge  to  triumph  over  all  evil  spirits  in  the 
world  to  come,  then  are  we  saved,  as  in  the  case  of  IJesus,  who  was  to  reign 
until  he  had  put  all  enemies  under  his  feet,  death  being  the  last  enemy." 

It  would  seem,  therefore,  that  knowledge  is  a  vital  factor  in  the 
matter  of  salvation,  for  every  one  who  does  not  obtain  knowledge 
sufficient  to  be  saved,  will  be  condemned.    The  principle  of  knowledge 
is  given  through  Jesus  Christ.   It  is  impossible  for  a  man  to  be  saved 
~  in  ignorance.  1 

■  Salvation  comes  to  the  children  of  men  through  the  atonement 
•       made  by  our  Savior,  (the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  whose  precious  blood 
cleanses  from  all  sin,  and  redeems  and  saves  fallen  man  in  the  presence 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  God,  always  upon  the  condition  of  repentance  and  submission  to 
the  .will  of  God. 

THE  REWARD  OF  THE  FAITHFUL 

The  will  of  God  is  set  forth  in  great  simplicity,  clearness  and 
power  in  the  standard  works  of  the  Church,  the  Bible,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 

Speaking  of  those  who  attain  to  the  highest  rewards  in  the 
kingdom  of  heaven,  the  Lord  said,  in  a  revelation  given  to  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  dated  February  16th,  1832, 
that  which  follows : 

"And  again,  we  bear  record — for  we  saw  and  heard,  and  this  is  the  testimony 
of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  concerning  them  who  shall  come  forth  in  the  resurrection 
of  the  just— 

"They  are  they  who  received  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and  believed  on  his 
name  and  were  baptized  after  the  manner  of  'his  burial,  being  buried  in  the 
water  in  his  name,  and  this  according  to  the  commandment  which  he  has 
given —  I        ,  ;  •' 

"That  by  keeping  the  commandments  they  might  be  washed  and  cleansed 
from  all  their  sins,  and  receive  the  Holy  Spirit  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands 
of  him  who  is  ordained  and  sealed  unto  this  power. 

"And  who  overcome  by  faith,  and  are  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise, 
which  the  Father  sheds  forth  upon  all  those  who  are  just  and  true. 

"They  are  they  who  are  the  church  of  the  first  born" — or  in  other  words, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  he  was  the  first  born: 

"They  are  they  into  whose  hands  the  Father  has  given  all  things — 

"They  are  they  (who  are  priests  and  kings,  who  have  received  of  his 
fulness,  and  of  his  glory." 

These  words  correspond,  in  spirit  and  doctrine,  with  the  teachings 
of  the  Savior  and  his  apostles  in  the  meridian  of  time.  It  would  be 
well  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  give  heed  to  these  words,  and  it 
would  be  well  if  the  world  at  large,  the  children  of  men  generally, 
would  give  strict  heed  to  these  words,  because  in  rendering  obedience 
to  the  will  of  God  they  will  find  salvation. 

TESTIMONY 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  solemnly,  that  I  do  know 
that  this  is  the  true  Church  of  God ;  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ ;  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  his  prophet ;  and  that  it  was  given  to  Joseph  Smith 
to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  last  dispensation,  the  dispensation  of  the 
fulness  of  times.  I  testify  to  you  that  whatever  authority  of  God  is 
resting  down  upon  this  people,  has  come  to  them  and  to  us  from 
the  Lord,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Hence  I  do  certainly 
revere  his  memory,  and  I  regard  him  as  a  great  man  and  a  great- 
prophet.  We  know — at  least,  we  believe  with  all  our  souls — that  Joseph 
Smith  now  mingles  with  the  Gods  in  the  spirit  world,  and,  with  his 
brethren  there,  is  planning  for  the  salvation  of  the  people. 

This  is  the  testimony  I  bear  in  all  humility,  and  I  do  it  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


21 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  . 

The  burden  of  my  thought  today  is  that  of  gratitude.  My  heart 
is  mellowed  and  deeply  touched  by  the  great  blessings  which  I  enjoy. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  which  I  now  have  to  be  once  again 
in  the  councils  of  my  brethren;  to  be  associated  in  general  conference 
with  the  Church ;  to  stand  where  I  can  look  into  the  faces  of  men  whom 
I  have  come  to  love  and  honor  and  respect.  I  cannot  contemplate  my 
membership  in  the  Church,  the  testimony  of  the  divine  authenticity 
of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  the  high  privileges  which  have 
come  to  me,  to  labor  in  the  advancement  of  the  great  cause,  these 
blessed  associations  with  my  brethren  in  the  priesthood,  without  render- 
ing to  God,  my  Father,  the  gratitude  and  thanks  of  my  heart. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  kindness  which  on  every  hand  I  have  met,  at 
the  hands  of  my  brethren  and  my  sisters.  God  has  been  good  to  me,  and 
I  now  thank  you,  my  brethren  in  the  holy  priesthood  and  my  sisters  in 
the  Church,  for  your  kindness  and  consideration. 

JOY   THAT  PASSES   UNDERSTANDING  ,1 

I  am  glad  once  again  to  be  able  to  engage  in  the  activities  of  the 
Church.  I  want  to  let  my  voice  be  heard  in  proclamation  of  the  holy 
Gospel.  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  all  mankind  that  God's  work 
is  established,  and  that,  within  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  are  to  be  found  the  principles  of  eternal  life,  the  satisfactions 
that  are  enduring  and  the  joy  that  passes  understanding. 

I  have  had  some  time  for  contemplation  and  reflection.  I  have 
had  opportunity  of  introspection  and  the  analysis  of  my  thoughts  and 
feelings,  and  I  have  definitely  reached  the  conclusion  that  there  is  no 
happiness  for  me  except  in  the  philosophy  and  high  conceptions  which 
the  Gospel  of  Christ  brings^ to  me.  I  enjoy  the  pleasant  things  of  life. 
I  enjoy  and  appreciate  the  beauty  of  the  earth  and  that  which  it  pro- 
vides; but  I  prize  above  all  these  a  contentment  of  mind,  a  peace  of 
heart,  brought  to  me  in  my  testimony  of  the  truth.  I  know  that 
God  lives.  I  know  that  my  pod  is  my  Father — more  than  a  mere 
principle;  more  than  an  irresistible,  dominating  force  in  nature..  He 
is  my  eternal  parent.  Il  am  his  child.  My  spirit  was  begotten  of 
him.  I  know  that  the  Savior  of  this  world  is  the  jSon  of  the  living 
God.  His  existence  is  a  reality  to  me.  The  example  and  the  teachings 
of  his  earthly  life  constitute  the  ideals  to  which  I  aspire.  I  ask  for 
no  higher  nor  more  comprehensive  philosophy. 

THE  INSPIRED  OF  GOD, 

I  know  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  divinely  called.  I 
know  that  his  mission  in  life  was  to  restore  the  everlasting  Gospel,  and 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  believe  in  the  revelations  which  God,  in  his  mercy,  gave  to  the  Church 
and  to  mankind,  through  him.  I  honor  the  name  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  feel  that  no  greater  and  higher  honor  could  come  to 
me  than  to  win  some  day,  when  my  ministry  shall  have  been  completed, 
his  approval  for  my  labors,  because  I  look  upon  him  as  the  earthly  head 
of  the  kingdom,  the  beginner  of  it,  the  inspired  of  God,  to  receive  the 
initial  revelations  for  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel.  I  prize  my  knowl- 
edge of  him,  as  1  prize  my  knowledge  of  the  very  Lord  of  the  universe. 
And  all  the  men  who  in  proper  order  have  succeeded  him  are  prophets 
of  the  living  God.  Their  place  in  the  kingdom  has  been  won  and 
established. 

It  is  so  with  our  present  prophet,  standing  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  today.  We  honor  and  respect  and  love  him  for  his  de- 
votion to  the  work  of  God,  and  for  his  integrity,  his  absolute 
integrity  to  the  Lord,  to  the  work,  to  the  people,  and  to  the  world. 
I  cannot  understand  how  the  word  of  Heber  J.  Grant  can  be  questioned 
by  any  living  person  who  knows  his  life  and  his  record.  No  more 
honest,  aggressively  honest  man  have  I  ever  known,  and  our  confidence 
in  his  word  and  in  his  honor  should  be  supreme. 

CONSIDERATION   FOR  ONE  ANOTHER 

I  am  grateful  for  the  kindness  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
brings.  All  the  words  of  our  Savior  are  kind  and  considerate.  The 
very  plan  of  life  and  salvation  is  of  the  essence  of  charity  and  kindness 
and  love.  There  is  no  compulsion,  and  one  of  the  most  grievous  errors, 
in  my  judgment,  into  which  the  creeds  and  sects  of  religion  have 
almost  universally  fallen  is  that  of  dogmatism,  and  such  rigorous  ritual 
as  to  deprive  their  proponents  of  these  elements  of  kindness,  and  mercy, 
and  tolerance,  and  consideration.  Every  man  is  an  individual.  He 
is  entitled  to  be  treated  as  a  separate  entity.  Into  his  human  tabernacle 
has  come  an  individual  intelligence  of  eternal  life  and  duration,  and 
I  can  conceive  of  no  higher  principle,  no  more  salutary  conception  than 
that  of  the  recognition  of  the  individual  differences  of  men  and  of 
women.  Of  these  the  Gospel,  when  properly  understood  and  interpreted, 
takes  note,  and  every  man,  in  his  place  and  circumstances,  is  given 
adequate  and  individual  consideration.  We  are  not  all  expected  to  be 
cast  in  one  mould.  We  are  as  different  in  our  thoughts  and  thinking, 
in  our  capacities  and  abilities,  in  our  receptiveness,  as  we  are  in  ap- 
pearance. But  the  Gospel  makes  allowance  for  all  of  these.  It  gives 
to  each  one  the  opportunity  of  activity  as  his  capacities  and  abilities 
may  warrant,  and  it  brings  to  each  one  a  tolerance  and  compassion 
commensurate  with  the  weaknesses  and  frailties  of  each  individual. 

THE   FRUITION   OF   GOD'S  PURPOSES 

We  are  not  perfect.  We  make  no  such  pretensions,  but  we"  are 
striving  to  do  good.  We  are  striving  for  betterment  and  progression, 
and  we  are  offering  to  the  world  the  most  progressive  of  all  the  phil- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  23 


osophies  and  programs  which  have  been  offered  for  the  advancement 
and  improvement  of  individuals,  as  well  as  nations  and  groups. 

I  believe  that  God  is  blessing  this  great  work.  I  believe  that 
faster,  perhaps,  than  we  know,  there  is  being  brought  to  fruition  the 
great  purposes  which  he  has  announced  for  the  human  race.  I  see 
on  every  hand  the  evidences  and  the  testimonies  which  we  are  told  are 
to  follow  the  testimonies  of  his  chosen  witnesses.  We  do  not  know 
how  soon  the  ultimate  consummation  of  his  work  will  be  effected, 
but  we  do  iknow  that  we  are  moving  forward,  and  it  is  ever  my 
hope  that  all  of  us  may  be  in  the  line  of  progress,  that  our  ser- 
vice may  ever  be  at  the  disposal  of  those  who  preside  over  us,  and 
of  the  great  cause.  |I  feel  that  as  every  man  gives  his  best  to  this 
high  endeavor,  he  will  grow  in  stature;  he  will  grow  in  goodness; 
he  will  grow  in  love  of  God  and  love  of  the  work. 

I  desire  to  give  my  best.  I  desire  to  unite  with  you  in  an  effort 
to  preach  the  true  conception  of  the  Christian  doctrine.  I  desire  to 
serve  my  God  to  the  best  of  my  meager  ability.  And  now  I  praise 
his  holy  name  for  his  great  and  glorious  work,  for  these  high  concep- 
tions that  he  has  given  to  us  to  feed  our  very  souls,  to  enliven  us  with 
love  and  reverence  and  worship,  and  the  desire  for  goodness. 

THE  SUPREME  CHARITY 

I  apprehend  that  the  adversary  of  truth  is  at  work  in  the  world. 
I  believe  that  he  is  touching  and  influencing  the  lives  of  many  men, 
and  that  their  conduct  is  inimical  to  the  progress  of  our  work,  and 
yet  I  almost  hesitate  to  call  them  enemies.  After  all,  mankind  are  of 
one  great  brotherhood,  some  weaker  than  others,  and  it  would  seem 
some  are  vicious  and  malicious,  and  intentionally  do  great  harm. 
Thank  God  I  am  not  the  judge  of  my  brother  and  my  sister.  I  am 
persuaded  sometimes  to  believe  with  him  who  says  that  the  supreme 
charity  in  all  this  world  is  to  judge  not,  but  to  leave  the  judgment 
of  our  fellow  men  in  the  hands  of  him  who  is  the  great  and  just 
judge  of  all.  As  I  desire  mercy  for  myself,  I  plead  for  mercy  for 
all  mankind.   "God  forgive  them.    They  know  not  what  they  do." 

I  pray  that  the  spirit  of  love  and  tolerance  and  mercy,  which 
the  Gospel  brings,  may  ever  abide  in  our  hearts,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

The  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Anthon  E.  Anderson, 
President  of  the  Logan  Stake. 

The  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m.,  with  President  Heber  J..  Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation,  Ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  A.  King,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Garfield  Stake. 

The  hymn,  "Prayer  Is  the  Soul's  Sincere  Desire,"  was  sung  by  the 
congregation. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  want  to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  meeting 
with  you  this  day.  In  the  first  place  I  want  to  endorse  with  all  my  heart 
and  soul  the  remarks  that  have  been  made  during  the  morning  sesssion. 
I  think  they  were  mo^t  timely  and  I  wish  to  say  to  the  people  of  the 
Church,  no  matter  where  they  may  live,  these  things  apply  to  our  every 
day  life  and  if  adhered  to  will  make  better  men  and  better  women  of  us. 

NOT  ASHAMED  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  examples  that  we  set  wherever  we  go  are  but  one  way  of 
preaching  the  (Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  never  been  ashamed  to 
acknowledge  that  I  am  a  Mormon,  if  you  please,  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  so  doing  I  cannot 
recall  one  instance  in  my  life  when  it  has  redounded  to  my  disadvantage. 
When  I  see,  as  I  have  seen  in  times  past,  members  of '  the  Church 
shrinking  in  certain  society  or  associations  from  letting  people  know 
that  they  are  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  have  only 
pity  for  them.  If  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  were  lived  by  every 
man  who  professes  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint  we  would  be  the  ideal 
people  of  the  world,  and  'I  believe  that  we  are  even  under  present 
conditions. 

PROHIBITIONISTS 

Do  we  believe  in  prohibition  ?  T  cannot  but  say,  without  a  question 
of  doubt,  that  there  are  a  greater  number  of  Latter-day  Saints  who 
not  only  believe  it  but  practice  it  than  in  any  other  community  of  like 
number  or  any  other  place  in  all  the  world.  It  means  so  much  to  us 
and  the  world,  and  we  profess  so  much  for  those  who  live  it.  I  hope 
and  trust  that  it  will  grow  in  the  hearts  of  the  people  until  every  man 
bearing  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God  dan  say,  "I  am  a  prohibitionist. 
I  am  proud  of  it."  Acknowledge  it.,  I  testify  to  you  that  there  has 
never  been  a  place  where  I  have  been  present,  in  this  country  or  in 
foreign  lands,  where  it  has  mortified  me  in  the  least  degree  to  acknowl- 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


25 


edge  it  by  word  or  action — -I  not  only  profess  to  be  a  prohibitionist, 
but  that  I  live  that  law  and  have  done  so  all  my  life,  thanks  to  that 
mother  God  gave  me.  1 

ingersoll's  views  regarding  alcohol 

There  has  been  a  great  deal  of  talk  lately  to  the  effect  that  the 
prohibition  law  [should  be  repealed.  iWould  it  be  better  for  the  world  ? 
I  do  not  believe  so.  No  one  can  claim  that  Robert  G.  Ingersoll  was  a 
fanatic  religiously,  and  I  know  of  no  one  who  has  expressed  himself 
upon  the  curse  of  alcohol  stronger  than  has  Robert  G.  Ingersoll.  I 
would  that  the  whole  world  would  study  what  he  said  is  the  result  of 
its  use.  And  while  this  question  is  before  the  nation,  if  you  please, 
and  many  I  find,  even  among  our  people,  believe  it  would  be  best  to 
have  the  prohibition  law  repealed,  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to 
what  Robert  Ingersoll  said  regarding  alcohol : 

"I  am  aware  that  there  is  prejudice  against  any  man  engaged  in  the 
manufacture  of  alcohol.  I  believe  that  from  the  time  it  issues  from  the  coiled 
and  poisonous  worm  in  the  distillery  until  it  empties  into  the  hell  of  death, 
dishonor  and  crime  it  demoralizes  everything  that  touches  it  from  its  source  to 
its  end. 

"I  do  not  believe  that  any  one  can  contemplate  the  object  without  preju- 
dice against  the  liquor  crime.  All  we  have  to  do  gentlemen,  is  to  think  of  the 
wrecks  on  either  bank  of  the  stream  of  death,  of  the  suicides,  of  the  insanity,  of 
the  poverty,  of  the  ignorance,  of  the  destitution,  of  the  little  children  tugging  at  ' 
the  faded  and  withered  breasts  of  weeping  and  despairing  mothers,  of  the  wives 
asking  for  bread,  of  the  men  of  genius  it  has  wrecked,  and  man  struggling 
with  imaginery  serpents,  I  believe  every  thoughtful  man  is  prejudiced  against 
this  damned  stuff  that  is  called  alcohol! 

"Intemperance  cuts  down  youth  in  its  vigor,  manhood  in  its  strength  and 
age  in  its  weakness.  It  breaks  the  father's  heart,  bereaves  the  doting  mother, 
extinguishes  natural  affections,  erases  conjugal  love,  blots  out  filial  attachments, 
blights  parental  hope,  and  brings  down  mourning  age  in  sorrow  to  the  grave. 
It  produces  weakness,  not  strength ;  sickness,  not  health ;  death,  not  life.  It 
makes  wives  widows,  children  orphans,  fathers  fiends,  and  all  of  them  paupers  and 
beggars.  It  feeds  rheumatism,  nurses  gout,  invites  cholera,  imparts  pestilence 
and  embraces  consumption. 

"It  covers  the  land  with  idleness,  misery  and  crime.     It  fills  pur  jails, 
almshouses  and  asylums.   It  engenders  controversy,  fosters  quarrels  and  cherishes 
riots.    It  crowds  our  penitentiaries  and  furnishes  victims  for  the  scaffold.  It 
is  the  life  blood  of  the  gambler,  the  element  of  the  burglar,  the  prop  of  the* 
highwayman  and  the  support  of  the  midnight  incendiary. 

"It  countenances  the  liar,  respects  the  thief,  esteems  the  blasphemer,  it 
violates  obligations,  reverences  fraud  and  honors  infamy.  It  defames  benevo- 
lence, hates  love,  scorns  virtue,  slanders  innocence. 

"It  incites  the  father  to  butcher  his  helpless  offspring,  helps  the  husband 
to  massacre  his  wife,  and  the  children  to  grind  the  paricidal  ax.  It  burns  up  men, 
consumes  women,  detests  life,  curses  God  and  despises  heaven.  It  suborns 
witnesses,  nurses  perjury,  defiles  the  jury  box  and  stains  the  judicial  ermine. 
It  degrades  the  citizen,  debases  the  legislature,  dishonors  the  statesman  and 
disarms  the  patriot. 

"It  brings  shame — not  honor,  terror — not  safety,  despair — not  hope,  misery — 
not  happiness ;  and  with  the  malevolence  of  a  fiend  it  calmly  surveys  its  frightful 
desolation  and  unsatiated  with  havoc,  it  poisons  felicity,  kills  peace,  ruins  morals, 
blights  confidence,  slays  reputations  and  wipes  out  national  honor — then  curses 
the  world  and  laughs  at  its  ruin."  i 
Is  there  anyone  who  can  deny  these  statements?    What  more 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


trouble  and  sorrow  could  come  to  a  mother  or  a  father,  a  sister  or  a 
brother,  than  to  have  one  of  their  loved  ones  addicted  to  the  alcoholic 
curse?  What  right  thinking  person  can  believe  it  should  be  sanctioned 
by  law  ?  No,  God  grant  that  it  shall  never  come  to  our  fair  America 
again.  i 

I  do  not  say  that  the  present  administration  of  the  law  is  perfect. 
I  do  not  say  that  it  has  been  enforced  to  the  length  it  could  be.  But 
I  do  say  and  I  do  claim  that  it  is  a  thousand  times  better  than  if  we 
had  today  the  open  saloon,  the  hell-holes  of  Satan  himself. 

EASTERN  STATES  MISSION  ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

There  are  so  many  questions  of  vital  importance,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  could  be  spoken  of  and  which  have  been  referred  to  by 
those  who  have  addressed  this  Conference.  If  I  do  trespass  a  moment 
I  want  to  make  reference  to  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  and  acknowl- 
edge the  splendid  work  accomplished,  by  Brother  James  H.  Moyle, 
the  president  of  that  Mission.  He  has  made  it  possible  to  reach  not 
only  the  few  that  come  to  church,  but  also  the  thousands  who  listen 
to  our  Elders'  sermons  by  radio.  The  last  two  nights  I  have  read  the 
speeches  that  have  "been  delivered  over  the  radio  in  the  Eastern  States 
Mission  by  our  Elders.  Brother  Moyle  tells  me  that  the  radio  speeches 
do  not  cost  the  Mission  a  cent,  and  I  have  not  the  least  doubt  that  they 
have  reached  tens  of  thousands  of  people  who  had  never  heard  of 
Mormonism  or  had  had  one  principle  of  our  Gospel  explained  to  them 
by  a  member  of  the  Church.,  He  informs  me  that  almost  all  of  these 
speeches  have  been  prepared  by  young  missionaries  themselves.  Many 
of  them  are  masterpieces.  It  would  do  this  great  congregation  and 
all  the  thousands  who  are  listening  in  over  the  radio  a  great  deal  of  good 
to  hear  them  delivered  from  this  stand. 

GOD  AT  THE  HELM 

This  work  is  growing.  The  God  of  heaven  is  at  the  helm.  He 
has  never  made  one  prediction  through  his  prophets  in  any  age  of  the 
world  nor  in  this  day  and  dispensation  that  will  not  be  literally  ful- 
.  filled.  I  know  it  as  I  know  that  I  live.  God  grant  his  blessings  unto 
the  President  of  the  Church,  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  the 
organizations  of  the  priesthood,  and  all  the  people  of  the  Church. 
Remember,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  belong  to  the  most  remarkable  or- 
ganization in  all  the  world.  God  give  us  power  and  strength  and  the 
determination  to  do  our  part  to  bring  about  the  purposes  of  God  in 
establishing  His  Church  in  this  day  and  generation,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

About  420,  probably  421  of  our  present  era,  as  we  reckon  the 
years,  Moroni,  an  ancient  Nephite  prophet,  the  last  of  a  long  line, 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  27 

closed  the  record  of  his  people,  and  left  the  seal  of  his  testimony 
upon  all  that  had  been  inscribed  upon  the  metallic  plates  which  were 
made  to  receive  the  account  of  the  Lord's  dealings  with  that  people, 
from  the  time  they  had  been  led  from  Jerusalem,  across  the  deep, 
to  this  American  continent.    I  pray  you  heed  these  words  of  his : 

"And  again,  I  exhort  you,  my  brethren,  that  ye  deny  not  the  gifts  of  God, 
for  they  are  many ;  and  they  come  from  the  same  God.  And  there  are  different 
ways  that  these  gifts  are  administered ;  but  it  is  the  same  God  who  worketh  all 
in  all;  and  they  are  given  by  the  manifestations  of  the  Spirit  of  God  unto  men, 
to  profit  them. 

"For  behold,  to  one  is  given  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  he  may  teach  the 
word  of  wisdom ; 

"And  to  another,  that  he  may  teach  the  word  of  knowledge  by  the  same 
Spirit ; 

"And  to  another,  exceeding  great  faith;  and  to  another,  the  gifts  of  healing 
by  the  same  Spirit; 

"And  again,  to  another,  that  he  may  work  mighty  miracles ; 
"And  again,  to  another,  that  he  may  prophesy  concerning  all  things ; 
"And  again,  to  another,  the  beholding  of  angels  and  ministering  spirits; 
"And  again,  to  another,  all  kinds  of  tongues ; 

"And  again,  to  another,  the  interpretation  of  languages  and  of  divers  kinds 
of  tongues. 

"And  all  these  gifts  come  by  the  Spirit  of  Christ;  and  they  come  unto 
every  man  severally,  according  as  he  will. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  beloved  brethren,  that  ye  remember  that  every 
good  gift  cometh  of  Christ. 

"And  I  would  exhort  you,  my  beloved  brethren,  that  ye  remember  that  he 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever,  and  that  all  these  gifts  of  which 
I  have  spoken,  which  are  spiritual,  never  will  be  done  away,  even  as  long 
as  the  world  shall  stand,  only  according  to  the  unbelief  of  the  children-  of  men." 

THE  EVIL  GIFT 

And  now  I  pass  over  several  paragraphs  of  comment  upon  what 
has  gone  before,  and  read  you  another  admonition  from  this  ancient 
revelator : 

"And  again  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  come  unto  Christ,  and  lay 
hold  upon  every  good  gift,  and  touch  hot  the  evil  gift,  nor  the  unclean  thing." 

A  very  strong  contrast  is  here  drawn.  The  principal  gifts  of  the 
Spirit  are  listed  in  other  scriptures,  in  the  Bible,  in  the  volume  of 
latter-day  revelation,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants ;  but  the  enumeration 
I  have  read  to  you  is  perhaps  as  comprehensive  as  any.  The  prophet 
plainly  proclaims  the  fact  that  these  are  characteristic  of  the  Church 
of  Christ.  Miracles,  as  the  manifestations  of  such  gifts  are  sometimes 
called,  will  not  be  done  away  as  long  as  men  are  receptive  to  the 
operations  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  as  long  as  men  are  willing  to  re- 
ceive and  to  heed. 

But  the  admonishment  is :  "Touch  not  the  evil  gift,  nor  the  unclean 
thing."  What  is  meant  by  that  ?  Satan  from  the  first  has  been  a  great 
imitator ;  he  is  an  experienced  strategist.  Never  has  the  Lord  set  his 
hand  to  do  a  specific  thing  for  the  good  of  his  people  upon  the  earth, 
of  outstanding  feature,  but  that  Satan  has  attempted  to  imitate  it  in 
some  degree. 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FROM  GOD  OR  FROM  SATAN? 

The  Lord  manifested  himself  to  Moses,  and  talked  to  the  man 
face  to  face.  Moses  records  the  fact,  and  adds  that  he  could  not  have 
looked  upon  the  Lord  with  his  physical  eyes,  but  that  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  was  upon  him,  and  he  was  able  to  see  with  his  spiritual  eyes. 

Then  came  Satan,  the  audacious,  the  father  of  lies,  and  represented 
himself  as  being  the  son  of  God  in  the  distinctive  sense.  Moses  was 
able  to  discern  and  perceive. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  looked  upon  Satan  and  said :  Who  art 
thou?  For  behold,  I  am  a  son  of  God,  in  the  similitude  of  his  Only  Begotten; 
and  where  is  thy  glory,  that  I  should  worship  thee? 

"For  behold,  I  could  not  look  upon  God,  except  his  glory  should  come 
upon  me,  and  I  were  strengthened  before  him.  But  I  can  look  upon  thee 
in  the  natural  man.    Is  it  not  so  surely?" 

Oh,  that  we  all  had  such  power  of  discernment.  That  is  a  gift 
of  the  Spirit,  to  which  we  are  entitled  and  we  will  have  it  as  we  live 
for  it.  With  that  gift  we  shall  be  free,  to  a  great  extent,  from  the 
deception  that  otherwise  might  lead  us  astray. 

As  the  Lord  gives  revelations,  so  does  Satan,  each  in  his  way. 
'As  the  Lord  has  Irevelators  upon  the  earth,  so  has  Satan,  and  he  is 
operating  upon  those  men  by  his  power,  and  they  are  receiving  revela- 
tions, manifestations,  that  are  just  as  truly  of  the  devil  as  was  his 
manifestation  to  Moses,  to  which  I  have  referred. 

BEWARE  OF  DECEPTION 

We  need  the  power  of  discernment.  We  need  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord,  that  we  may  know  the  spirits  with  whom  we  have  to  deal,  and 
recognize  those  who  are  speaking  and  acting  under  the  influence  of 
heaven,  and  those  who  are  the  emissaries  of  hell.  Many  have  been 
led  away  in  this  Church.  Go  back  to  1830.  In  September  of  that 
year,  a  few  months  only  after  the  Church  had  been  organized,  Satan 
was  at  work,  and  men  were  receiving  revelations  which  were  put  forth 
to  offset  those  that  were  given  to  the  Church  through  the  Lord's  chosen 
revelator,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  had  been  instrumental  in 
translating  the  ancient  records,  and  he  had  been  given  the  aid  of  the 
Urim  and  Thummim.  Hiram  Page  found  a  peculiar  stone,  and  used 
that,  as  the  devil  seems  to  have  influenced  him,  until  the  Lord  had  to 
speak  and  declare  that  that  which  Hiram  Page  had  given  unto  the 
people  was  not  of  him,  and  that  when  he  had  revelations  to  give  to 
the  Church  he  would  give  them  through  the  man  who  was  sustained 
as  the  revelator  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  and  not  through  somebody 
else.    Read  Doctrine  and  (Covenants,  section  28. 

Nevertheless  the  Lord  makes  plain  in  the  scriptures  of  these  days 
that  his  wondrous  gifts,  the  gifts  of  the  Spirit,  can  be  possessed  by 
those  who  live  for  them  and  they  will  be  given  severally,  according  as 
the  Lord  will,  and  he  wills  to  give  them  unto  those  who  will  use  them 
rightly,  and  not  unto  those  who  would  dishonor  them. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


29 


FALSE  PROPHETS 

The  Lord  does  not  work  miracles  to  satisfy  idle  curiosity  or  to 
gratify  the  lust  of  the  evil-doer.  When  you  hear3  if  hear  you  should, 
of  men  who  are  receiving  revelations  concerning  the  conduct  of  this 
Church,  and  those  men  are  not  such  as  you  have  sustained  by  the 
uplifted  hand  before  the  Lord  as  your  representatives  with  the  Lord,  and 
as  his  prophets  and  revelators  unto  you,  you  may  know  that  those 
men  are  not  speaking  by  the  power  of  God. 

Now,  do  not  be  deceived.  If  men  come  to  you  and  tell  you  that 
they  have  received  manifestations  and  revelations  telling  of  great  de- 
velopments that  are  to  come,  beware!  So  live  that  you  may  have 
the  power  of  discernment.  When  they  tell  you  that  it  has  been  made 
known  to  them  that  great  wealth  is  to  be  taken  out  of  the  hills,  under 
their  direction ;  that  they  are  to  bring  it  forth  with  the  prime  purpose 
of  using  that  wealth  for  the  building  up  of  the  Church,  for  the  erection 
of  a  great  temple,  toward  which  eventuality  the  eyes  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  turned,  you  may  know  that  they  are  not  of  God.  No  temple 
will  ever  be  built  as  the  result  of  the  gifts  of  a  rich  man,  or  of  a  few 
rich  men.  In  building  temples  the  Lord  requires  a  specific  kind  of 
money.  It  must  be  sanctified  money.  It  must  be  the  money  of  sacrifice, 
and  he  needs  the  pennies  of  the  faithful  poor  as  much  as  the  .gold  pieces 
of  the  rich. 

We  may  all  have  part  in  building  the  great  temple  to  which  reference 
'is  often  made,  as  we  have  all  had  the  privilege  of  taking  part  in  build- 
ing the  temples  that  have  already  been  erected. 

SPURIOUS  IMITATIONS 

Satan  has  tried  to  appear  as  an  angel  of  light  in  earlier  dispensa- 
tions. He  is  doing  so  today.  John  the  Revelator  warned  the  people 
of  this  very  day  in  which  we  live.  He  wrote  for  our  warning  of  what 
would  take  place.  |He  saw  evil  powers,  and  he  calls  them  the  spirits  of 
devils,  working  miracles  and  deceiving  the  people.  It  was  so  in  olden  time. 
While  the  Lord  was  speaking  through  Isaiah  and  the  other  great 
prophets  of  pre-meridian  time,  Satan  "Was  at  work  with  his  witches 
and  wizards,  with  his  soothsayers,  giving  spurious  messages  and  trying 
to  lead  the  people  astray. 

When  the  Christ  came  in  person  manifesting  his  inherent  power 
over  men  and  evil  spirits,  [when  he  cast  out  unclean  spirits  that 
were  afflicting  men,  there  arose  many  who  undertook  to  exorcise 
the  demons,  and  to  imitate  the  work  of  Christ  so  far  as  was  pos- 
sible. 'And  (when  the  Gospel  was  again  brought  to  earth,  and  the 
Priesthood  restored  in  (this,  the  last  dispensation,  there  was  a  great 
revival  and  increase  in  the  manifestations  called  spiritualistic  phenomena, 
in  the  effort  to  put  something  forth  that  looked  like  the  original  and 
the  genuine,  and  so  lead  people  astray. 

Oh,  ye  Latter-day  Saints,  ye  men  of  mighty  testimony,  ye  women 
of  wondrous  assurance,  shall  you,  shall  we,  forget  what  the  Lord  has 
given  us  by  way  of  certain  knowledge,  and  be  led  away  by  false 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lights,  by  those  who  are  receiving  spurious  revelations,  as  they  call 
them,  for  guidance? 

SATAN  A  LIVING  PERSONAGE 

Now,  I  know  that  it  is  not  quite  in  accord  with  the  advanced 
thought  of  the  day,  according  to  certain  cults,  to  believe  that  there 
is  a  devil,  a  personage,  a  reality.  Many  who  pose  as  super-thinkers 
seek  to  dismiss,  with  the  old  ideas,  the  old  stories,  fables  they  call 
them,  that  form  the  bulk  of  the  very  word  of  God  recorded  as  sacred 
writ,  the  fact  of  Satan's  existence. 

But  there  is  a  personage  known  as  Satan.  Before  he  was  cast 
out  from  heaven  he  was  called  Lucifer.  He  is  just  as  truly  a  personage 
as  are  you  or  am  f,  though  he  is  not  embodied.  )He  js  in  that  un- 
embodied  state  in  which  we  existed  prior  to  our  birth  into  the  flesh.  And 
we  read,  as  the  Revelator  tells  us,  and  as  Jude  attests,  that  he  was  cast 
out  from  heaven  because  of  his  rebellion,  and  all  his  angels  or  followers 
were  cast  out  with  him ;  numbering  a  third  of  the  spirit-hosts  of  that 
particular  class  in  heaven.   So  they  were  many,  and  they  are  many. 

In  the  land  of  the  Gergesenes  Christ  freed  a  man  who  was 
grievously  afflicted  by  evil  powers ;  but  first  he  called  upon  the  demon 
to  give  his  name,  and  the  spirit  answered,  through  the  mouth  of  the 
man:  "My  name  is  Legion,  for  we  are  many."  If  we  could  form  any 
estimate  of  the  number  of  a  third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven  at  the  time 
spoken  of  by  the  Revelator,  and  compare  such  with  the  number  of 
people  living  upon  the  earth  at  any  one  time,  we  would  see  that  the 
great  general  (in  command  of  them  all,  Satan,  can  assign  a  legion  to 
every  one  of  us,  and  to  every  human  being  on  the  face  of  the  earth, 
to  deceive  and  lead  the  soul  astray,  if  it  be  possible. 

Satan  foresaw  what  would  come  to  pass,  and  the  prophet  Nephi 
realized  fully  the  claims  that  would  be  set  up  in  the  last  days,  these 
days.  Read  what  goes  before  in  the  twenty-eighth  chapter  of  Second 
Nephi,  before  that  which  I  shall  read  to  you,  and  you  will  see  that 
the  prophet  is  referring  to  the  time  in  which  we  Jive.  He  tells  us  that 
it  will  be  necessary  in  this  day  that  the  kingdom  of  the  devil  shall  shake, 
and  he  foretells  that  the  devil  will  "rage  in  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men,  and  stir  them  up  to  anger  against  that  which  is  good." 

"And  others  will  he  pacify,  and  lull  them  away  into  carnal  security,  that 
they  will  say :  All  is  well  in  Zion ;  yea,  Zion  prospereth,  all  is  well — and  thus  the 
devil  cheateth  their  souls,  and  leadeth  them  away  carefully  down  to  hell. 

"And  behold,  others  he  flattereth  away,  and  telleth  them  there  is  no  hell ; 
and  he  saith  unto  them:  I  am  no  devil,  for  there  is  none — and  thus  he  whispereth 
in  their  ears,  until  he  grasps  them  with  his  awful  chains,  from  whence  there 
is  no  deliverance." 

LATTER-DAY  WARNING 

In  the  present  dispensation  the  Lord  has  warned  his  people  against 
the  doctrines  of  devils  voiced  by  men  in  the  service  of  Satan.  Read 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  46,  especially  verses  7  to  9. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


I  trust  that  we  may  have  the  power  of  discrimination,  the  gift 
of  discernment,  that  we  may  know  the  spirits  with  whom  we  have  to 
deal,  that  we  may  not  |forget  the  voice  of  the  Shepherd  but  that  we 
may  know  him,  and  follow  him,  and  be  true  to  our  profession,  looking 
to  those  whom  we  sustain  as  being  our  representatives  (before  the 
Lord,  for  through  them  will  come  whatever  is  necessary  that  this  people, 
as  a  people,  that  this  Church,  as  his  Church,  shall  receive.  I  hope  that 
none  of  us  shall  be  defiled  through  dallying  with  the  evil  gift,  the 
devil's  gift,  the  unclean  thing,  which  is  abominable  in  the  sight  of  the  . 
Lord.   I  so  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Sixty-one  years  ago  today  I  first  beheld  the  light,  here  in  this 
valley,  and  I  am  informed  there  was  deep  snow  upon  the  ground. 
How  different  from  that  is  the  beautiful  weather  we  have  today  for 
the  commencement  of  our  Conference,  and  how  joyful  it  causes  us 
to  feel  that  we  can  meet  together  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Without' 
animosity  toward  any  soul,  but  with  kindness  in  our  hearts  for  all 
people.  We  have  come  into  this  sanctuary  to  worship  our  Heavenly 
Father,  to  listen  to  his  servants  as  they  speak  to  us  under  the  inspiration 
of  his  Spirit. 

HUMBLE  BUT  GREAT  MEN 

It  is  a  wonderful  blessing  that  we  enjoy  in  these  times  of  stress  and 
uncertainty  to  feel  sure  of  divine  guidance,  to  have  absolute  faith  in 
a  personal  God  who  is  interested  in  us  and  who  hears  and  answers  our 
prayers.  i 

I  have  been  thinking  today  of  the  humble  but'  great  men  who  have 
led  this  Church  from  its  organization.  I  have  known  personally  all 
the  Presidents  since  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  Although  a  small 
child  when  Brigham  Young  passed  away  I  knew  him ;  I  have  sat  upon 
his  knee  and  I  remember  with  deep  appreciation  his  kindness  to  my 
mother  and  to  me  when  father  was  in  England  as  a  missionary.  I 
have  been  well  acquainted  with  the  other  Presidents  and  believe  that 
they  were  all  men  of  God.  It  is  inconceivable  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  would  choose  any  other  kind  to  preside  over  his  Church.  > 

I  have  known  the  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  since 
I  was  a  small  boy,  and  since  I  became  of  age  I  have  been  intimate 
with  all  of  them.  They  have  heen  a  remarkable  group  of  men.  I  can 
testify  that  those  who  have  remained  faithful  have  indeed  been  servants 
of  the  Lord. 

I  have  been  acquainted  with  most  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy, 
and  they  have  been  good  men,  of  exceeding  humility. 

The  two  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  who  have  served  in  my  time 
have  been  exceedingly  faithful  and  have  indeed  blessed  the  people. 

I  have  known  all  the  members  of  the  Presiding  'Bishopric  since 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  was  a  youth  and  have  'been  on  intimate  terms  with  most  of  them. 
They  have  certainly  honored  their  'bishopric  and  have  sought  to  be  what 
the  Lord  would  have  them  be. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  be  personally  acquainted  with  most  of 
the  Stake  presidents  during  the  last  forty  years  and  they  have  certainly 
presided  over  the  people  in  a  way  that  I  am  sure  the  Lord  is  pleased 
with  their  service.  -  ( 

While  I  have  not  been  personally  acquainted  with  all  the  bishops 
of  the  Church  since  my  youth,  I  have  known  most  of  them.  They 
have  indeed  been  fathers  of  the  flock,  a  wonderful  group  of  men. 

The  auxiliary  leaders  of  the  Church,  both  men  and  women,  have 
been  faithful  and  true  and  have  ministered  for  the  blessing  of  our 
Father's  children  whom  they  have  been  appointed  to  serve. 

UPHELD  AND. SUSTAINED  BY  RIGHTEOUS  MEMBERS 

In  addition  to  these  leaders,  I  have  known  thousands  of  the  rank 
and  file  of  this  great  Church,  men  and  women  of  many  nations  who 
in  humility  and  faithfulness  have  accepted  the  Gospel  to  become  identified 
with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  both  here  and  in 
other  lands.  These,  too,  have  prayed  for  and  sustained  their  leaders 
during  the  past  century,  and  during  my  experience  in  the  Church  I  have 
yet  to  know  of  one  person  who  has  been  observing  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord  who  has  raised  his  or  her  voice  against  those  who  were 
called  to  preside  over  this  Church.  That  is  really  remarkable  because 
all  have  had  their  agency  and  could  have  refused  to  sustain  their 
leaders  had  there  been  evil  in  the  men  who  have  been  called, to  direct 
them.  Surely  if  they  had  not  been  good  men  some  of  this  great  army 
of  people  who  are  living  near  to  the  Lord  would  have  discovered  wrong- 
doing and  would  have  made  it  public.  As  it  is  only  those  who  have 
been  cast'  out  because  of  their  unworthiness  or  who  have  transgressed 
the  laws  of  the  Lord  have  raised  their  voices  in  conderfmation  of  the 
leaders  of  the  Church. 

One  of  the  greatest  testimonies  to  me  of  fhe  divinity  of  this  work 
is  that  a  multitude  of  people — not' .  only  those  who  assemble  here  in 
these  great  General  Conferences  but  all  Israel — having  the  opportunity 
in  Stake  Conference  four  times  a  year  to  express  themselves  by  voting 
either  to  sustain  or  refuse  to  sustain  those  who  preside  over  them 
(every  one  exercising  free  agency)  continue  to  uphold  their  leaders. 
Surely  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  prompts  the  faithful,  humble  people  to 
sustain  his  chosen  servants. 

I  am  grateful  to  know  that'  the  Lord  has  spoken  and  that  this 
is  his  Church,  and  that  he  will  continue  to  support  those  whom  he 
calls  to  minister  if  they  will  be  faithful  in  the  future  as  they  have 
been  in  the  past. 

EXPERIENCES  OF  EARLY  LEADERS 

Within  the  last  few  weeks  I  have  been  reading  a  journal  of  my 
grandfather,  George  A.  Smith  who,  when  a  boy  seventeen  years  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


33 


age,  was  a  member  of  Zion's  Camp.  He  was  large  in  stature  and  slept 
at  the  foot  of  the  Prophet's  bed  at  night  to  see  that  no  one  should  enter 
the  tent  who  did  not  belong  there.  I  have  read  his  personal  experiences, 
some  most  painful  and  others  miraculous.  In  his  youth  he  was  sent 
out  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord.  His  was  the  experience  of  other 
men  who  have  been  called  to  the  ministry.  Those  of  evil  minds  made 
false  accusations  against  him  and  his  associates  but  he  continued  faithful 
and  the  Lord  vindicated  them  and  magnified  them  in  the  eyes  of  the 
people  and  gave  them  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  that 
was  so  positive  that  no  task  was  too  difficult  for  them  to  undertake 
for  the  dissemination  of  truth.  Grandfather  ,was  among  the  group 
sent  to  England  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  1839.  There  the  adversary 
sought  to  discourage  them  in  every  way.  Their  journals  written  at 
the  time  disclose  the  fact  that  they  were  misrepresented  by  evil  men 
and  attacked  by  evil  spirits,  but  ,the  Lord  preserved  them  and  they 
performed  a  great  labor.  Eight  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  were 
there  at  that  time.  Among  those  called  to  go  to  England  were  men 
without  means  to  pay  their  way  but  they  started  from  their  homes  on 
foot.  Due  to  prolonged  illness  one  of  these  men  was  too  weak  to  walk 
two  miles  to  take  a  stage  coach  but  was  helped  that  distance  by  a  friend. 
They  had  faith  in  God;  they  knew  that  this  was  his  Church  and  so 
they  went  their  way  and  friends  not  of  the  Church  were  raised  up 
to  give  them  money  and  pay  their  passage  across  the  ocean,  where  they 
delivered  their  message  and  many  faithful  people  accepted  the  truth  as 
a  result  of  their  ministry. 

TOOLS  OF  THE  ADVERSARY  ' 

The  journals  of  these  men  inform  us  that  even  in  that  early  day 
there  were  those  who  became  identified  with  the  Church  who  were  not 
thoroughly  converted ;  they  did  not  repent  of  their  sins,  and  failed  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  While  his  desires  were  plainly 
manifested  unto  them  they  refused  to  do  what  he  required  at  their 
hands.  They  did  not  pay  their  tithing,  would  not  observe  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  and  were  immoral.  These  the  adversary  could  use  and 
he  prompted  them  to  criticize  and  oppose  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
who  were  unselfishly  laboring  day  and  night  to  disseminate  the  truth. 

We  may  not,  therefore,  expect  the  leaders  of  the  Church  in  our 
day  to  escape  the  shafts  of  the  adversary  hurled  by  those  who  are 
in  his  service.  Righteous  people  will  have  no  desire  to  speak  evil  of 
those  who  are  doing  good  but  the  adversary  will  use  those  who,  having 
transgressed  trie  laws  of  the  Church  and  the  laws  of  the  land,  are 
themselves  in  darkness. 

WHILE  IN  A  DUNGEON 

I  desire  to  read  a  portion  of  Section  121  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  President  Grant  quoted  from  it  this  morning  but  he  did 
not  read  that  which  I  will  refer  to.  This  revelation  was  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  while  he  was  a  prisoner, in  a  dismal  dungeon  in 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Liberty,  Missouri.   In  the  anguish  of  his  soul  he  prayed  to  the  Lord: 

"0  God,  where  art  thou?  And  where  is  the  pavilion  that  covereth  thy 
hiding  place? 

"How  long  shall  thy  hand  be  stayed,  and  thine  eye,  yea  thy  pure  eye,  behold 
from  the  eternal  heavens  the  wrongs  of  thy  people  and  of  thy  servants,  and 
thine  ear  be  penetrated  with  their  cries?" 

He  knew  that  the  Lord  could  hear  and  would  understand.  He 
knew  that  the  men  he  associated  with  were  good  men,  that  they  suffered 
persecution  and  bondage,  not  because  of  wrong  doing  but  because 
of  enemies  from  without  and  evil  men  who  were  within  the  Church. 
The  Lord  answered  his  prayer  as  f  ollows : 

"My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine  adversity  and  thine  afflictions  shall 
be  but  a  small  moment; 

"And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall  exalt  thee  on  high;  thou 
shalt  triumph  over  all  thy  foes. 

"Thy  friends  do  stand  by  thee,  and  they  shall  hail  thee  again  with  warm 
hearts  and  friendly  hands. 

"Thou  art  not  yet  as  Job;  thy  friends  do  not  contend  against  thee,  neither 
charge  thee  with  transgression,  as  they  did  Job. 

"And  they  who  do  charge  thee  with  transgression,  their  hope  shall  be 
blasted,  and  their  prospects  shall  melt  away  as  the  hoar  frost  melteth  before 
the  burning  rays  of  the  rising  sun; 

"And  also  that  God  hath  set  his  hand  and  seal  to  change  the  times  and 
seasons,  and  to  blind  their  minds,  that  they  may  not  understand  his  marvelous 
workings ;  that  he  may  prove  them  also  and  take  them  in  their  own  craftiness ; 

"Also  because  their  hearts  are  corrupted,  and  the  things  which  they  are 
willing  to  bring  upon  others,  and  love  to  have  others  suffer,  may  come  upon 
themselves  to  the  very  uttermost; 

"That  they  may  be  disappointed  also,  and  their  hopes  may  be  cut  off ; 

"And  not  many  years  hence,  that  they  and  their  posterity  shall  be  swept 
from  under  heaven,  saith  God,  that  not  one  of  them  is  left  to  stand  by  the 
wall.  i  ' 

"Cursed  are  all  those  that  shall  lift  up  the  heel  against  mine  anointed, 
saith  the  Lord,  and  cry  they  have  sinned  when  they  have  not  sinned  before  me, 
saith  the  Lord,  but  have  done  that  which  was  meet  in  mine  eyes,  and  which 
I  commanded  them. 

"But  those  who  cry  transgression  do  it  because  they  are  the  servants  of 
sin  and  are  the  children  of  disobedience  themselves. 

"And  those  who  swear  falsely  against  my  servants,  that  they  might  bring 
them  into  bondage  and  death — 

"Wo  unto-  them ;  because  they  have  offended  my  little  ones  they  shall  be 
severed  from  the  ordinances  of  ■  mine  house. 

"Their  basket  shall  not  be  full,  their  houses  and  their  barns  shall  perish, 
and  they  themselves  shall  be  despised  by  those  that  flattered  them. 

"They  shall  not  have  right  to  the  priesthood,  nor  their  posterity  after  them 
from  generation  to  generation. 

"It  had  been  better  for  them  that  a  millstone  had  been  hanged  about  their 
necks,  and  they  drowned  in  the  depth  of  the  sea." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  history  will  continue  to  repeat  itself  and 
temptations  will  be  presented  to  all  of  us.  We  should  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  that  we  may  enjoy  the  discernment  of  spirits 
that  we  may  be  not  led  astray. 

MARKING  THE  TRAILS 

This  is  a  beautiful  valley  in  which  we  are  now  living  but  it  was 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  35 


a  wilderness  when  the  forebears  of  many  of  us  came  here.  We  are 
enjoying  the  fruits  of  their  sacrifice  and  labor  and  we  should  remember 
them  with  deep  appreciation. 

Those  early  pioneers  were  a  remarkable  group  of  men  and  women, 
most  of  whom  have  gone  to  their  reward.  A  movement  has  been 
started  to  mark  the  route  of  the  pioneer,  that  those  who-  now  travel 
in  comfort  may  have  their  attention  called  to  the  courage  of  those  who 
blazed  the  trail  and  made  it  possible  for  us  to  live  in  this  favored  land. 
Opportunity  is  being  offered  that  we  may  all  make  our  contribution  to 
a  fund  that  is  intended  to  mark  the  trail  over  which  those  heroes  came, 
many  of  whom  are  buried  in  unmarked  graves.  Others  struggled  into 
this  valley,  footsore  and  weary  but  with  undaunted  courage,  because 
of  their  faith  in  the  Father  of  us  all.  A  state-wide  committee  has  been 
organized  to  plan,  and  we  will  be  permitted  to  participate  in  erecting 
monuments  and  markers  in  different  places,  to  call  the  attention  of 
the  passerby  to  those  who  preceded  us,  and  we  should  determine  that 
they  will  not  be  forgotten  because  of  carelessness  or  indifference  on 
our  part. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  BLESSINGS 

All  my  life  I  have  been  associated  with  this  Church  and  its  faithful 
members  and  rejoice  that  I  have  been  considered  worthy  to  be  identified 
with  them.  Men  and  women  such  as  are  sitting  in  this  congregation 
today  have  been  an  inspiration  to  me.  I  thank  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  the  joy  I  have  had  in  being  your  associate  in  this  work,  this 
work  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  the  earth  for  the  last  time,  for  we  are 
assured  that  it  will  never  again  be  taken  from  the  earth  or  given  to 
another  people. 

I  thank  my  Father  in  heaven  for  the  knowledge  that  this  is  his 
work  and  that  I  have  enjoyed  the  benefits  that  have  come  to  me  as 
a  result  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  has  not  been  difficult  for  me 
to  see  how  those  who  have  observed  all  the  counsels  of  the  Lord  as  near 
as  they  could,  have  been  happy  because  the  more  of  his  commandments 
that  I  have  kept  the  happier  has  been  my  life.  The  most  contented 
and  the  happiest  people  that  I  know  are  the  members  of  this  Church 
who  are  conforming  their  lives  to  the  teachings  of  our  Lord.  Knowing 
this  I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  for  my  membership  in  his  Church. 
I  am  thankful  to  be  directed  by  men  such  as  preside  over  us.  I  am 
grateful  to  these  men  who  are  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  for  the 
encouragement  they  give  me.  I  pray  that  they  may  live  long  and  be 
happy.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  my  associates  in  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve,  that  he  will  reward  presidents  of  Stakes,  bishops  of 
Wards,  and  mission  presidents  and  all  who  are  unselfishly  giving  their 
time  and  the  very  best  portions  of  their  lives  to  develop  faith  among 
the  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  give  them  a  better  under- 
standing of  his  glorious  truths. 

This  is  his  Gospel;  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  all 
those  who  believe  and  obey  it. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Knowing  that  in  the  not  far  distant  future  I  must  stand  in  the 
presence  of  my  Maker,  to  give  an  account  of  the  days  I  have  spent 
upon  the  earth  and  realizing  how  serious  it  might  be  to  me  if  I  did  not 
speak  the  truth,  I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  as  I  know  that  I  live 
that  this  is  God's  work,  and  I  bear  witness  of  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Lord.    Amen.  , 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

There  came  a  time,  in  the  life  of  Paul,  when  he  found  the  Church 
beset  with  just  such  difficulties  as  have  been  referred  to  as  existing, 
in  some  instances,  with  some  members  of  the  Church  today,  and  to  his 
associate  in  the  ministry,  Timothy,  he  said: 

"Wherefore  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God, 
which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

"For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind." 

On  another  occasion  it  is  recorded  in  Matthew  that : 

"There  shall  arise  false  Christs,  and  false  prophets,  and  shall  show  great 
signs  and  wonders;  insomuch  that,  if  it  were  possible,  they  shall  deceive  the 
very  elect." 

THE  GIFT  OF  GOD  WITHIN  US 

Christ  regarded  the  bestowal  of  the  Holy  Ghost  upon  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church,  as  the  fundamentally  important  thing  he  could 
do  for  them  after  he  had  concluded  his  own  personal  ministry.  He 
would  not  even  allow  the  apostles  to  go  forth  and  preach  without  that 
endowment  from  on  high ;  but  after  the  Holy  Ghost  was  come  he  would 
fully  qualify  them  to  understand  the  truth,  he  would  endow  them  with 
power  to  preach  it.  And  what  a  marvelous  change  came  over  the  lives 
of  these  men  when  they  were  endowed  with  this  power  from  on  high ! 

The  membership  of  this  Church  have  received  that  same  companion- 
ship. How  important  it  is  for  us  today,  as  perhaps  never  before,  to 
stir  up  the  gift  of  God  that  is  in  us,  that  has  been  given  us  through 
the  putting  on  of  the  hands  of  those  authorized  servants  of  God,  that 
we,  by  the  guidance  of  that  holy  inspiration,  may  be  able  in  these 
troublesome  times,  as  has  been  so  well  stated  here  this  afternoon,  to 
enjoy  the  gift  of  discernment,  to  see  and  understand  the  spirits  that 
are  in  the  world. 

LEST  YE  BE  DECEIVED  . 

In  the  forty-sixth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
I  read  the  following: 

"But  ye  are  commanded  in  all  things  to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  liberally; 
and  that  which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you  even  so  I  would  that  ye  should  do 
in  all  holiness  of  heart,  walking  uprightly  before  me,  considering  the  end  of 
your  salvation,  doing  all  things  with  prayer  and  thanksgiving,  that  ye  may  not 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


37 


be  seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines  of  devils,  or  the  commandments  of  men ; 
for  some  are  of  men,  and  others  of  devils. 

"Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  are  deceived;  and  that  ye  may  not  be  deceived 
seek  ye  earnestly  the  best  gifts,  always  remembering  for  what  they  are  given ; 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  they  are  given  for  the  benefit  of  those  who  love 
me  and  keep  all  my  commandments,  and  him  that  seeketh  so  to  do;  that  all 
may  be  benefited  that  seek  or  that  ask  of  me,  that  ask  and  not  for  a  sign  that 
they  may  consume  it  upon  their  lusts." 

SEEK  SPIRITUAL  GUIDANCE 

I  believe,  as  I  have  observed,  that  there  has  never  been  a  time 
when  we  needed  spiritual  guidance  as  we  need  it  today.  This  is  truly 
a  time  when  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  has  perished  in  material  things, 
and  the  understanding  of  the  prudent  is  hid.  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord 
gave  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  the  membership  of  the 
Church  for  their  guidance  and  comfort  in  all  things,  even  as  he  has 
indicated  in  the  revelation  I  have  just  read.  i 

I  believe  that  it  is  the  privilege  of  the  membership  of  this  Church 
to  seek^that  guidance,  even  in  material  things.  There  is  a  key  given 
in  the  ninth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which 
would  be  very  profitable  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  follow  even  now. 
You  remember  the  circumstance  of  Oliver  Cowdery  translating  portions 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  then  all  became  darkness  to  him  and 
he  could  not  proceed.  He  inquired  of  the  Lord  to  know  why  it  was, 
and  the  answer  came  that  he  had  taken  no  thought  save  it  was  to  ask 
the  Lord,  and  left  the  burden  of  responsibility  there. 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  you  must  study  it  out  in  your  mind; 
then  you  must  ask  me  if  it  be  right,  and  if  it  is  right  I  will  cause  that  your 
bosom  shall  burn  within  you ;  therefore,  you  shall  feel  that  it  is  right. 

"But  if  it  be  not  right,  you  shall  have  no  such  feelings,  but  you  shall 
have  a  stupor  of  thought  that  shall  cause  you  to  forget  the  thing  which  is 
wrong" — ■ 

that  shall  turn  your  heart  away  from  the  thing  that  you  had  contem- 
plated, i 

You  do  not  know  what  to  do  today  to  solve  your  financial  problems, 
what  to  plant,  whether  to  buy  or  sell  cattle,  sheep  or  other  things.  It 
is  your  privilege  to  study  it  out ;  counsel  together  with  the  best  wisdom 
and  judgment  the  Lord  shall  give  you,  reach  your  conclusions,  and  then 
go  to  the  Lord  with  it,  tell  him  what  you  have  planned  to  do.  If 
the  thing  you  have  planned  to  do  is  for  your  good  and  your  blessing, 
and  you  are  determined  to  serve  the  Lord,  pay  your  tithes  and  your 
offerings  and  keep  his  commandments,  I  promise  you  that  he  will 
fulfil  that  promise  upon  your  head,  and  your  bosom  shall  burn  within 
you  if  the  thing  you  have  planned  to  do  is  right,  and  you  shall  know 
by  the  whisperings  of  the  Spirit  that  it  is  right.  But  if  it  is  not  xight 
you  shall  have  no  such  feelings,  but  you  shall  have  a  stupor  of  thought, 
and  your  hearts  will  be  turned  away  from  that  thing. 

DECEPTIONS  OF  THE  ADVERSARY 

I  know  of  nothing  today  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  need  more 
than  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  the  solution  of  the  problems 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  life.  I  know  also  that  that  same  unerring  wisdom  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  can  detect  the  deceptions  of  the  adversary.  I  have  been  led 
recently  to  feelings  of  pity  for  groups  of  people  who  have  been  deceived 
by  lying  tongues,  by  deceptive  spirits. 

I  was  in  Independence  the  other  day  with  Brother  Bennion,  visiting 
the  mission,  and  stood  by  a  foundation  that  has  been  partly  made  and 
has  been  filled  with  earth  as  the  rains  have  been  washing  in  the 
excavations.  I  conversed  with  groups  of  people  who  claimed  to  have 
received  revelations  to  build  a  temple  there,  and  had  now  come  to 
confusion,  split  up  and  divided.  Across  the  lot  is  a  large  building, 
partly  completed,  erected  by  another  group  who  claim  they  have  had 
visions  and  revelations,  and  they  are  in  the  midst  of  confusion,  doubt 
and  uncertainty. 

As  I  look  back  over  the  history  of  this  Church,  I  find  that  the 
Prophet  himself  had  to  rise  up  against  those  who  sought  to  displace  him. 
When  Brigham  Young  became  President  of  this  Church  he  said: 
"Let  any  who  want  to  lead  a  party  away  do  so,  and  raise  their  hand 
against  God's  authority.  They  will  not  prosper."  His  words  have  been 
fulfilled.  Whether  it  is  in  connection  with  those  factions  that  have 
broken  away  and  gone  off  to  Texas,  or  anywhere  else ;  they  have  come 
to  naught,  and  they  will  come  to  naught.  Those  who  broke  away  in 
this  country,  under  the  name  of  Morrisites,  or  Godbeites,  or  any  other 
"ites" — what  has  become  of  them?  Oh,  that  men  and  women  would 
be  wise  enough  to  see  what  will  happen  to  those  who  seek  to  steady 
the  ark! 

The  Lord  promised  long  ago  that  the  majority  of  the  leadership  of 
this  Church  never  would  lead  this  people  astray,  and  they  never  will, 
and  they  are  not  leading  this  people  astray  today.  Every  faction  that 
rises  will  come  to  naught,  just  as  sure  as  you  and  I  live. 

How  my  soul  rejoices  to  see  this  work  progressing,  developing, 
going  forward,  although  there  are  these  deceptions.  Yes,  the  elect 
would  be  deceived,  if  it  were  possible,  by  the  miraculous  things  that 
sometimes  appear  among  others.  There  were  those,  in  the  days  of 
Christ,  who  healed  the  sick  and  followed  not  after  him,  and  some  of 
the  disciples  wanted  to  know  if  they  should  not  rebuke  and  restrain 
these  who  were  thus  manifesting  certain  power.  Christ  told  them  to 
leave  them  alone ;  they  were  not  competitors  of  his. 

It  does  not  disturb  me  to  see  evidences  of  this  character  today  else- 
where, because  here  is  the  light,  here  is  the  truth,  here  is  the  power  of 
God,  and  here  is  the  authority  of  the  holy  priesthood.  I  am  sure  that 
every  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  observing  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  not  seeking  for  these  things,  to  consume  them  upon  his  own 
lusts,  will  have  witnesses  and  testimonies  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  will 
guide  him  to  detect  the  falsehoods,  to  detect  the  deceptions  that  are 
at  work. 

USING  NEW  METHODS 

We  are  in  a  period  of  peace,  so  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned, 
from  the  outside.    You  who  have  been  attending  these  Conferences 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


39 


now  for  the  last  few  years  have  been  hearing  the  warning  from  this 
stand,  that  when  the  time  of  peace  came  to  the  Church,  and  there  was 
no  enemy  from  the  outside,  we  should  not  be  lulled  into  a  sense  of 
security,  feeling  that  the  battles  were  all  fought  and  won,  and  that 
the  enemy  had  quit  the  field;  for  he  would  pursue  new  methods  in 
seeking  to  destroy  this  work.  He  has  not  succeeded  in  injuring  it 
by  mob  violence. 

I  went  over  part  of  the  trail  with  Brother  Bennion  the  other  day, 
where  Zion's  camp  traveled  during  the  Missouri  troubles.  I  stood 
at  the  spot  where  the  Prophet,  chained,  uttered  that  great  rebuke  to 
the  guards ;  I  stood  at  the  shrine  erected  to  General  Doniphan,  who 
was  ordered  to  execute  the  Prophet,  but  had  the  courage  and  manhood 
to  refuse  to  do  it.  ;  As  I  contemplated  the  struggles  and  sorrows  and 
difficulties- and  the  journeys  and  the  hardships  of  the  hundred  years, 
my  soul  rejoiced  that  under  all  these  trials  the  Church  was  not  shaken. 
There  stood  men  and  Women  in  its  ranks  with  clear  vision,  with 
understanding,  and  with  determination  to  stand  or  to  die  for  the  truth. 
iThey  stood  like  beaten  anvils,  unafraid,  and  have  preserved  to  us  our 
heritage,  blessings  and  privileges  of  faith  and  standing  in  the  true 
Church  until  this  hour. 

But  the  enemy  is  not  arraying  persecution  against  us  from  the 
outside  just  now.  Nevertheless,  he  is  at  work,  seeking  to  deceive 
within,  for  he  will  by  new  methods  try  to  destroy  this  people ;  but  he 
shall  not  succeed  any  more  than  he  succeeded  through  persecution  or 
mob  violence.  I  am  sure  that  the  great  heart  of  this  Church  is  sound, 
that  we  are  of  a  sound  mind,  and  that  there  is  no  fear  for  Zion,  for 
her  future  is  glorious. 

|A  PERIOD  OF  GROWTH  AND  DEVELOPMENT 

My  visit  to  two.  missions  since  the  last  Conference  inspired  me 
with  the  thought  of  great  things  that  are  to  come  to  this  Church.  We 
have  not  begun  to  die,  but  we  are  entering  into  a  period  of  growth  and 
development  that  will  be  extended,  and  thousands,  yea,  countless  thousands 
of  the  blood  of  Israel  who  have  not  yet  been  touched,  will  be  found.  God 
is  opening  the  work  among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  More  people  have 
been  listening  to  our  messages  than  ever  before.  Places  are  being 
thronged,  and  I  see  him  at  work  preparing  for  the  fulfilment  of  his  great 
purposes,  for  Zion  shall  arise  and  shine,  and  those  who  seek  to  stop  her 
progress  will  be  as  helpless  as  the  dogs  that  bark;  while  the  Church, 
the  mighty  caravan  of  God,  goes  on  majestically  towards  its  destiny. 
No  power  can  retard  its  progress. 

The  only  fear  that  I  have  is  for  us  as  individuals.  The  work  will 
go  on.  It  will  succeed.  It.  will  fulfil  its  holy  purposes.  The  great 
secret  is,  shall  I  keep  the  light  burning  clearly  in  my  own  soul,  to 
see  and  understand  the  course  that  I  am  to  take;  that  shall  keep  me 
on  the  good  ship  Zion,  and  not  fall  overboard  or  run  off  with  some 
whim  or  will  or  notion  of  someone  else. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


MEN  OF  GOD 

I  declare  to  you,  with  all  sincerity  of  heart,  that  I  know,  per- 
sonally, that  the  declarations  that  President  Grant  made  concerning 
the  honor,  the  integrity  and  the  faithfulness  and  devotion  of  these 
leaders,  are  true.  I  know  it.  They  are  men  of  God.  They  are  not 
living  double  lives.  They  are  living  what  they  have  taught  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  live,  and  thank  the  Lord  you  know  it.  We  don't  need 
to  argue  it  with  you,  for  you  have  a  witness,  a  testimony  in  your 
hearts,  that  convinces  you  that  it  is  the  truth. 

Yes,  glorious  things  await  Zion,  and  the  evil  one  knows  it,  and 
he  will  try,  if  possible,  to  stop  the  work,  try  to  divide  our  ranks.  He 
will  try  to  disturb  us,  but  he  shall  not  succeed.  These  little  disturb- 
ances will  pass.  The  work  will  go  on.  God's  glorious  purposes  will 
be  accomplished.  I  am  as  sure  of  it  as  I  am  that  I  live.  I  bear  witness 
and  testimony  of  it  to  you  this  day,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  matter  of  great  satisfaction  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  find  that  my  feelings  are  in  complete  harmony  with  those  expressed 
by  the  speakers  in  this  Conference,  both  this  forenoon  and  this  after- 
noon. I  know  that  they  have  spoken  the  truth,  that  they  have  counseled 
us  in  righteousness,  and  if  we  will  obey  this  counsel  our  lives  will  be 
happier  and  we  will  be  more  secure  in  our  salvation. 

MEN  OF  GOD 

I  have  known  all  of  the  Presidents  of  the  Church  except  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  was  sixteen  years  of  age  when  President 
Brigham  Young  died.  I  have  been  personally  acquainted  with  his 
successors,  and  with  many  of  the  noble  men  of  this  Church  who  have 
been  associated  with  them  in  the  conduct  of  the  affairs  of  the  Church. 

I  have  seen  the  work  prosper  and  grow,  and  truth  triumph,  and  I 
know  that  these  men  have  been  men  of  God,  including  those  who  stand 
at  the  head  of  the  Church  today.  I  am  glad  to  be  associated  with  them 
and  to  be  in  harmony  with  them,  because  I  know  they  are  worthy 
servants  of  God ;  I  know  that  they  are  trying  to  live  their  religion,  to 
live  by  the  principles  and  the  doctrines  which  they  teach.  I  hope  that 
you  will  not  discover  in  my  remarks  anything  that  would  lead  you  to 
think  otherwise  than  that  I  am  in  complete  harmony  with  them. 

I  want  to  say  that  although  I  did  not  have  the  privilege  of  knowing 
the  Prophet  Joseph  here  in  the  flesh,  yet  I  know,  just  as  well,  that  he 
was  a  prophet  of  God,  divinely  called  and  inspired,  and  the  work 
which  he  brought  forth  is  evidence  of  that  fact. 

SEEKING  SALVATION 

I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true.    I  have  proved  it  from  many 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


41 


angles,  to  my  entire  satisfaction,  and  have  had  the  seal  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  to  impress  the  truth  of  it  upon  my  mind.  I  rejoice  in  this 
testimony  and  in  the  knowledge  I  have  that  there  are  thousands  of 
men  and  women  in  this  Church  who  are  faithful  in  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord  and  in  doing  his  will,  who  know  the  truth  of 
the  work  and  are  trying  to  work  out  their  salvation  in  fear  and 
trembling  before  him. 

I  remember  hearing  a  president  of  a  Stake,  while  speaking  from 
this  stand  at  one  of  our  General  Conferences,  make  the  remark  that  in 
his  Stake  there  were  people  who  were  candidates  for  every  degree  of 
glory.  That  no  doubt  represents  the  conditions  in  the  Church  today, 
hence  the  necessity  for  our  speaking  of  certain  simple  principles  and 
truths,  over  and  over  again. 

A  STRONG  ARGUMENT 

A  strong  argument  in  favor  of  prohibition  was  brought  forth  this 
afternoon  by  Elder  Smoot,  who  read  from  Robert  G.  Ingersoll's  declar- 
ation of  the  evil  results  of  strong  drink.  I  thought,  in  that  connection, 
that  there  is  a  stronger  argument  to  present  to  Latter-day  Saints  than 
all  that — one  that  appeals  to  me,  at  any  rate,  more  forcefully  and 
convincingly — and  that  is  that  it  is  the  expressed  mind  and  will  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  that  we  abstain  from  the  use  of  intoxicating  drinks. 
Then  too,  there  are  other  things  referred  to  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
which  our  Father  has  told  us  we  should  not  indulge  in.  Tobacco  is  one 
of  them,  and  others  are  strong  drinks  and  hot  drinks,  which  have  been 
interpreted  by  the  Authorities  of  this  Church,  whom  we  have  sustained 
as  prophets,  seers  and  revelators,  from  the  days  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
down  to  the  present  time,  to  include  tea  and  coffee.  I  accept  the 
interpretation  of  the  Word  of  Wlisdom  made  by  these,  the  servants 
of  God,  just  as  much  as  if  tea  and  coffee  had  been  mentioned  in  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  To  me,  our  Father  in  heaven  has  spoken  and  said : 
"It  is  my  will  that  you  do  not  use  tea  and  coffee.  It  is  my  will  that 
you  do  not  use  intoxicating  drinks.  It  is  my  will  that  you  do  not  use 
tobacco."  Have  I  any  respect  for  the  will  and  wishes  of  God,  my 
Heavenly  Father?  if  I  have,  and  have  faith  in  him,  and  in  the 
revelations  that  have  come  to  us  through  the  'Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  I 
will  keep  that  Word  of  Wisdom  as  I  understand  it,  and  as  it  is  inter- 
preted by  the  Authorities  of  this  Church. 

There  are  thousands  of  men  and  women  in  this  Church  who  regard 
this  matter  just  as  I  do,  and  who  are  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
but  I  am  sorry  to  say  there  are  thousands  of  others  who  seem  to  have 
very  little  respect  for  the  will  of  God  as  he  has  given  it  to  us  in  this 
important  revelation. 

WAR  IN  HEAVEN 

We  read  an  account  of  a  war  that  took  place  in  heaven.  It  is 
recorded  in  the  twelfth  chapter  of  the  book  of  Revelation — that  a  third 
of  heaven's  hosts,  rather  than  do  the  will  of  God,  were  drawn  away  in 
rebellion,  and  were  cast  out  and  down,  and  are  not  permitted  to  have 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

bodies  for  their  spirits,  or  to  obtain  any  degree  of  glory.  On  the 
other  hand,  those  who  stood  with  our  Captain,  our  King,  our  Lord  and 
Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  on  the  platform:  "Father  thy  will  be  done,  and 
the  glory  be  thine  forever,"  are  here  enjoying  the  blessings  of  this  life 
and  are  in  the  way  of  salvation.  One  might  say  that  platform  pertained 
to  the  spirit  world.  It  did  pertain  to  the  spirit  world,  but  it  pertained 
as  well  to  this,  our  second  estate. 

THE  WILL  OF  THE  FATHER 

The  Savior  repeatedly,  while  here  in  life,  made  the  declaration  that 
he  came  not  to  do  his  own  will,  but  to  do  the  will  ofj  his  Father  who 
sent  him.  After  his  death  and  resurrection,  when  he  appeared  to  the 
ancient  inhabitants  of  this,  the  American  continent,  and  established  his 
Church,  and  preached  the  Gospel  to  them,  he  renewed  that  statement 
in  a  very  forceful  way,  as  recorded  in  the  twenty-seventh  chapter  of 
III  Nephi,  verse  13.    He  said: 

"Behold  I  have  given  unto  you  my  gospel,  and  this  is  the  gospel  which  I 
have  given  unto  you — that  I  came  into  the  world  to  do  the  will  of  my  Father, 
because  my  Father  sent  me." 

Then  he  goes  on  with  his  comments,  and  in  the  twenty-seventh 
verse  we  have  this  further  expression  of  our  Lord : 

"Therefore  what  manner  of  men  had  ye  ought  to  be?  Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
even  as  I  am." 

I  associate  the  two  expressions,  that  he  came  to  do  the  will  of 
his  Father  who  sent  him,  and  that  we  have  come  also  to  do  the  will 
of  our  Father  who  has  sent  us.  And  what  manner  of  men  ought  we 
to  be?  Even  as  he  was.  If  we  do  the  will  of  our  Father,  as  he  did  it 
and  as  he  taught  it,  it  will  make  us  like  him,  and  will  save  us  with  him 
in  our  Father's  kingdom.  If  we  do  the  will  of  our  Father  it  will  not 
only  be  the  keeping  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  but  every  commandment 
which  he  has  given  will  appeal  to  us  as  the  will  of  our  Father,  which 
we  must  observe.  Every  law  of  the  Gospel  will  have  the  same  appeal 
to  our  souls. 

OTHER  REASONS  FOR  OBSERVING  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

This  is  the  strong  appeal :  If  we  will  not  abstain  from  the  use 
of  tobacco,  from  tea  and  coffee  and  intoxicating  drinks,  because  of  their 
evil  effects  upon  our  bodies,  and  upon  our  minds  and  our  spirituality ; 
thai,  for  the  love  of  God,  our  Father,  and  to  be  in  accord  with  his 
mind  and  will,  we  ought  to  observe  that  Word. 

There  is  another  responsibility  in  connection  with  it,  devolving 
upon  us,  and  that  is,  we  owe  something  to  our  parents.  Men 'and 
women,  boys  and  girls,  who  have  been  born  in  this  Church  of  faithful, 
true,  Latter-day  Saints,  are  under  obligation  to  their  parents  to  honor 
them ;  and  when  we  do  not  keep  -the  Word  of  Wisdom  but  indulge  in 
these  things,  we  not  only  do  not  honor  them,  but  we  dishonor  them, 
and  that  we  have  no  right  to  do. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


43 


God  has  set  his  hand  to  save  his  children  and  invites  us  to  assist 
him  in  this  great  and  glorious  work,  and  when  we  live  contrary  to  the 
teachings  of  the  Gospel  we  hinder  instead  of  helping  his  cause,  and  some 
of  us  perhaps  will  do  more  injury  to  the  cause  than  all  the  good  we  do. 
None  of  us,  at  any  rate,  can  afford  to  deviate  from  the  word  and  will 
of  the  Lord. 

I  know  that  this  work  is  true.  I  know  it  is  good.  I  thank  God 
that  I  have  lived  as  well  and  as  nearly  to  his  laws  as  I  have  thus  far, 
and  I  hope  and  pray  that  I  may  so  continue  and  make  improvement  as 
long  as  I  live  upon  the  earth,  so  that  I  may  be  accounted  worthy  to 
dwell  with  the  sanctified  and  the  pure,  so  that  I  will  not  be  disappointed 
when  life  here  is  ended.  I  would  like  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
enjoy  the  same  blessing. 

In  closing,  I  appeal  to  those  who  have  not  been  keeping  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  and  for  his  sake  and  consideration, 
that  you  hereafter  do  not  use  tea  and  coffee,  that  you  do  not  use 
tobacco,  that  you  do  not  use  strong  and  intoxicating  drinks.  I  appeal 
to  you  in  behalf  of  the  President  of  this  Church,  God's  mouthpiece 
unto  us,  and  those  associated  with  him,  that  you  do  the  things  that  will 
please  them.  If  you  would  uphold  and  sustain  them,  observe  these 
things.  That  will  give  them  more  encouragement  than  anything  else 
that  we  can  possibly  do  in  this  mighty  work. 

May  God  add  his  blessing  unto  us,  each  and  all,  according  to  our 
need,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Temple  Block 

Mission 

An  American  prophet,  King  Benjamin,  whose  history  we  read  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon  said  on  one  occasion: 

"And  again  I  say  unto  you  as  I  have  said  before,  that  as  ye  have  come 
to  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  God,  or  if  ye  have  known  of  his  goodness  and 
have  tasted  of  his  love,  and  have  received  a  remission  of  your  sins,  which 
causeth  such  exceeding  great  joy  in  your  souls,  even  so  I  would  that  ye  should 
remember,  and  always  retain  in  remembrance,  the  greatness  of  God,  and 
your  own  nothingness,  »nd  his  goodness  and  long-suffering  towards  you, 
unworthy  creatures,  and  humble  yourselves  even  in  the  depths  of  humility,  calling 
on  the  name  of  the  Lord  daily,  and  standing  steadfastly  in  the  faith  of  that 
which  is  to  come,  which  was  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  the  angel. 

"And  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  if  ye  do  this  ye  shall  always  rejoice,  and 
be  filled  with  the  love  of  God,  and  always  retain  a  remission  of  your  sins ; 
and  ye  shall  grow  in  the  knowledge  of  the  glory  of  him  that  created  you,  or 
in  the  knowledge  of  that  which  is  just  and  true." 

Then  we  have  the  words  of  Jesus  as  recorded  in  the  thirteenth 
chapter  of  Mark,  the  Evangelist,  which  read:  "My  words  shall  not 
pass  away."  The  words  and  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  shall 
not  pass  away.  They  shall  live  jn  the  hearts  of  mankind  forever. 
From;  Jesus  Christ  as  from  no  other  teacher  in  the  world's  history 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


men  have  gathered  an  idea  of  God  and  his  teachings  which  have 
proved  themselves  to  be  the  greatest  teachings  in  the  history  of  civiliza- 
tion. They  have  endured  the  changes  of  time  and  survived  the  vicis- 
situdes of  life.  "In  him  as  in  no  other  being,  humanity  has  found 
an  ideal  of  character  before  which  men  of  all  generations  bow  their 
heads."  We  are  living  in  a  changing,  dynamic  age.  It  is  called  the 
greatest  age  of  the  world's  history.  There  are  so  many  influences 
leading  mankind  into  all  manner  of  theories  and  interpretations  as  to 
what  life  means.  I  have  faith,  however,  in  the  youth  of  the  world; 
I  believe  in  humanity.  There  is  much  more  goodness  than  wrong; 
much  more  righteousness  than  evil.  Man  is  divine,  and  all  are  children 
of  the  same  God.  The  iknowledge  of  the  divine  will  always  remain 
to  guide  us  to  better  spheres.  Yet  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  fact 
that  there  are  ills  besetting  human  society. 

There  is  today  an  unprecedented  challenge  to  law  and  authority. 
There  is  a  prevailing  hatred  between_  nations ;  men  and  men.  There 
is  a  growing  aversion  to  work.  There  is  an  excessive  thirst  for  pleasure, 
and  a  gross  materialism  seems  to  be  growing ;  and  as  the  materialism 
grows  man  is  forgetting  the  spiritual  life  that  has  been  taught  us  by 
Jesus  the  Christ,  and  those  who  have  taken  up  his  work  and  his  cause. 
These  ills  have  become  common  to  human  society,  but  there  is  a  power 
in  the- world  that  is  destined  to  overcome  them  and  that  is  the  power 
of  God,  manifested  in  the  mind  and  the  soul  of  man. 

When  Elder  Ballard  in  his  sermon  quoted  the  words  of  Paul  to 
Timothy  in  which  Paul  declared  that  God  had  not  blessed  us  with  the 
spirit  of  fear,  but  with  power  and  strong  minds,  I  was  reminded  of 
Stevenson's  lovely  story  entitled  "The  Lantern  Bearers."  In  this  story, 
Stevenson  describes  a  boyhood  game,  which  consisted  in  carrying 
beneath  one's  coat  a  bulls-eye  lantern.  Those  admitted  to  the  society 
were  permitted  to  carry  lanterns,  and  when  the  members  met  on  some 
hill  or  desert  waste  to  talk  with  each  other,  their  lanterns  were  the  bond 
of  fraternity.  It  united  them  all  as  by  a  sacred  cause.  When  one 
member  met  another,  he  would  ask:  "Have  you  your  lantern  ready?" 
Then  would  come  a  responsive  "Yes,"  and  their  coats  were  unbuttoned 
and  the  glow  of  the  light  revealed.  From  this  (Stevenson  derived 
his  philosophy  of  life.  I  wonder  if  we  have  our  lanterns  aglow  and 
ready  to  show  the  way. 

I  believe  that  the  message  of  Christ  is  slowly,  gradually,  and 
surely  touching  the  hearts  of  mankind.  I  believe  that  ultimately  right- 
eousness will  prevail  over  wrong;  and  the  Gospel  of  Christ  prevail. 
Men  will  stand  in  the  dignity  of  their  divinity,  and  not  only  live,  but 
declare  by  their  lives  the  great  work  and  power  of  the  Master. 

Boys  and  girls  in  our  universities  are  confronted  with  all 
kinds  of  ideas,  hut  ideas  that  have  been  advanced  (by  men  who  are 
sincere.  If  the  boys  and  girls  will  keep  themselves  clean  and  pure 
and  unspotted,  and  look  to  their  best  selves,  and  the  best  that  is  in  life, 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


45 


they  will  be  safe,  and  they  will  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  great  truths 
of  God.  1  i  '        .  ' 

I  remember  once  in  passing  the  large  gate  of  the  University  of 
Denmark,  in  Copenhagen,  noticing  a  beautifully  carved  eagle  above 
the  entrance.  I  suppose  it  is  there  to  this  day.  I  remember  the  Latin 
expression  beneath  the  eagle,  which  reads  in  English:  "The  eagle  is 
looking  toward  the  celestial  light."  Every  time  a  University  student 
passes  through  the  gate  he  takes  his  hat  off,  looks  up  to  that  eagle  and 
to  the  motto,  and  with  thoughtful  mind  says:  "This  day  may  I  look 
toward  the  celestial  light." 

This  has  been  the  teaching  of  our  fathers  and  our  mothers,  to  look 
toward  the  celestial  light.  In  that  light,  in  that  illumination  which 
is  and  may  become  common  to  us  all,  there  is  happiness,  and  peace, 
and  sunshine,  and  all  in  life  we  may  ask  for. 

The  pioneers  of  Utah,  our  fathers  and  mothers,  understood  the 
joy  of  divine  illumination,  for  they  were  men  and  women  of  toil,  and 
of  great  faith  in  God.  They  understood  life,  for  as  they  conquered  the 
elements,  the  finer  instincts  of  altruism  and  generosity  and  ilove  swelled 
in  their  hearts.  They  grew  in  a  knowledge  of  earth  and  heaven.  They 
knew  the  worth  of  life.  They  had  their  lanterns  ever  ready  I  and  never 
did  they  fail  to  keep  to  the  light  which  never  failed. 

The  light  of  life  is  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  He  has  told  us  to  deal 
direct  with  God  through  his  name.  The  soul  is  to  be  unafraid.  We  are 
to  love  God.  That  love  becomes  tremendous  and  real.  It  becomes  an 
infinite  power.  "If  thou  canst  believe,"  says  Mark  the  Evangelist, 
"all  things  are  possible  to  him  that  believeth."  And  again  in  Mark  we 
read :  "Have  faith  in  God."  "The  time  is  fulfilled."  "The  Kingdom 
of  God  is  at  hand.    Repent  and  believe  the  good  news."  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  received  the  following  greeting  from  President  Castle 
Murphy  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission : 

"Aloha  to  the  leading  brethren  and  sisters  and  the  Church  in  general,  from 
the  missionaries  and  the  good  people  of  the  'Hawaiian  Mission.  May  you  have 
a  wonderful  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  every  session  of  the  One 
Hundred  and  First  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church,  is  the  fervent  prayer  of 
each  of  us  who  labors  in  this  choice  land  of  love,  music  and  flowers — Hawaii." 

The  congregation  sang,  as  a  closing  hymn,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Harold  ,B.  Lee,  President 
of  the  Pioneer  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  April  5th. 


SECOND  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning,  April  5th,  at  10  o'clock, 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  every  seat  in  the  great 
auditorium  and  galleries  being  Itaken  and  every  available  space  in  the 
doorways  and  aisles  being  occupied.  Thousands  who  could  not  find 
accommodations  in  the  Tabernacle  assembled  in  the  large  Asssembly 
Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  by  means  of 
the  radio  to  the  Conference  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet."  •  ■ 

Elder  J.  Emmett  Bird,  President  of  the  Kolob  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Let  the  Mountains  Shout  for  Joy." 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  do  not  remember  an  occasion,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  it 
appeared  to  me  that  a  greater  number  of  members  of  the  Church  were 
present  than  are  here  this  morning.  I  feel  humble  and  grateful  that 
I  am  permitted  to  be  here  with  you,  recognized  with  you,  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  is  a  beautiful  morning.  The  sun  shines  brightly  without.  As 
I  walked  through  the  grounds  I  noticed  that  the  buds  on  the  trees 
are  beginning  to  burst,  to  put  on  their  new  summer  clothing,  and  awake 
to  newness  of  life. 

Then,  when  I  look  at  these  Easter  lilies,  with  their  purity  of 
color,  I  remember  that  this  is  the  day  when  Christian  people  throughout 
the  world  commemorate  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  our  Lord.  It  seems 
appropriate  that  it  should  come  on  such  a  day,  that  the  occasion  should 
come  when  the  earth  is  awakening  from  its  long  winter  sleep,  its  frozen 
condition,  to  new  life  and  new  energy. 

EASTER 

The  word  "Easter"  is  derived,  according  to  a  note  which  I  have 
here,  from  the  Anglo-Saxon  word  "Eostra,"  who  is  the  mythical  goddess 
of  spring.  Prior  to  the  seventh  century  A.  D.,  no  uniform  date  had 
been  fixed  upon  which  this  event,  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  was  commemorated.  I  find  that  Rome  observed  the  26th  of 
March ;  that  Gaul  observed  the  21st  of  March ;  Italy  the  18th  of  April ; 
while  Christians  of  Egypt  observed  April  27th,  as  the  day  on  which  the 
tomb  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  was  opened,  and  he  came  forth 
with  his  resurrected  body. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  47 


Regardless  of  the  date,  whether  it  be  upon  April  5th,  as  we  com- 
memorate it  today,  or  upon  any  other  day  which  might  be  designated, 
it  does  bring  to  our  memory,  and  we  commemorate  it  as  one  of  the 
greatest — perhaps  I  might  be  justified  in  saying  the  greatest  event  that 
has  occurred  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

It  is  true  that  the  creation  of  man,  and  the  placing  of  him  here 
upon  earth  by  God,  our  Father,  was  the  beginning  of  all  things  as  they 
now  pertain  to  us;  but  if  the  decree  of  death  which  was  pronounced 
upon  our  first  parents,  and  which  has  been  the  heritage  of  man  from 
that  time  until  the  present,  had  been  definite  and  perpetual,  if  no  means 
of  redemption  from  it  had  been  provided,  the  purpose  of  God  our 
Father  in  placing  us  here  would  have  been,  to  a  great  degree  at  least, 
futile. 

A  REDEEMER  PROMISED 

He  promised,  in  the  beginning,  that  he  would  provide  a  Redeemer ; 
that  the  penalty  of  death,  which  was  pronounced  upon  humankind, 
because  of  transgression,  should  not  be  eternal,  but  that  at  a  time, 
designated  as  the  meridian  of  time,  he  would  send  to  earth  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  through  whom  the  bonds  of  death  were  to  be  broken 
and  the  restoration  of  the  spirit  and  body  of  man  became  an  accom- 
plished fact,  when  mortality  would  be  no  longer  a  burden  to  us,  but 
when  with  glorified  bodies  we  should  stand  in  the  presence  of  God, 
our  Father. 

I  am  just  quoting  in  a  general  way,  because  of  the  limited  time, 
the  facts  as  they  are  to  be  found  in  holy  writ.  The  Bible  tells  the  story 
very  definitely  and  understandingly  to  those  who  read.  That  the  Israel- 
.itish  people,  from  whom  we  are  descendants,  looked  forward  to  a  time 
when  a  Redeemer  would  be  provided,  is  a  well-established  fact.  Israel 
had  been  reduced  to  a  condition  of  servitude.  The  independence  of 
Judea  had  passed  into  other  hands.  Rome  dominated,  and  the  Jews 
were  tributary  to  her.  Their  prophets  looked  forward  to  the  day  when 
deliverance  would  come.  They  expected  one  to  come  to  sit  upon  David's 
throne.  They  looked  for  a  deliverer,  a  redeemer,  who  would  come  sur- 
rounded by  the  panoply  of  war,  and  restore  to  Israel  the  kingdom  which 
had  been  wrested  from  them.  The  advent  of  Christ,  the  humility  of 
his  birth,  the  simplicity  of  his  life,  did  not  appeal  to  them. 

"he  who  was  to  come" 

When  he  was  baptized  in  the  River  Jordan,  John,  who  administered 
the  ordinance,  bore  witness  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God.  John  had 
preached  repentance  and  baptism;  bore  witness  to  the  world  that  one 
would  come  after  him,  the  latchet  of  whose  shoes  he  was  not  worthy  to 
unloose.  And  yet  it  is  evident  that  John  himself  was  not  certain, 
because  while  in  jail  at  the  decree  of  Herod,  the  king,  he  sent  messengers 
to  our  Lord,  with  this  question :  Go  and  ask  him  if  he  is  really  he  who 
was  to  come,  or,  are  we  to  look  for  another.  Christ  answered  them 
and  said :  Go  back  and  (tell  to  John  that  which  you  have  seen.  The 
blind  see.    The  deaf  hear.    The  sick  are  healed.    The  poor  have  the 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


gospel  preached  to  them.  Let  the  mind  of  John  revert  to  the  words 
of  the  prophets,  who  had  long  "before  declared  that  he  should  come 
in  humility,  and  not  in  the  glory  of  the  world. 

Christ,  our  Lord,  came  to  earth  first,  to  break  the  bands  of  death, 
and  make  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  an  established  fact.  He  came 
to  teach  us  the  story  of  human  life,  for  he  lived  it,  as  we  should  live  it. 
He  came  to  teach  us  the  source  from  which  we  came,  and  to  which 
we  shall  return. 

THE  WITNESS  HE  BORE 

He  bore  definite  witness  that  he  came  from  the  presence  of  the 
Father,  as  we  come  from  the  presence  of  the  Father.  He  bore  definite 
witness  that  he  returned  to  the  Father ;  that  he  went  to  sit  upon  his 
right  hand,  as  it  would  be  the  privilege  of  all  of  those  who  accepted 
and  followed  him  to  sit  upon  his  right  hand.  He  bore  witness  to  us 
that  whoever  had  seen  him  had  seen  the  Father;  that  the  glory  of  the 
Father  was  not  only  manifest  in  his  ministry  and  the  doctrines  which 
he  taught,  but  that  he  was  in  the  exact  image  of  his  person.  When 
men  said  to  him :  "Show  us  the  Father,"  did  he  not  answer :  Is  it 
possible  that  you  have  been  with  me  so  long,  and  ask  this  question? 
Whoever  has  seen  me  has  seen  the  Father — thus  establishing  the  divinity 
of  the  declaration  made  in  the  book  of  Genesis : 

"God  created  man  in  his  own  image ;  in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him ; 
male  and  female,  created  he  them." 

KING  THOUGH  HE  WAS 

He  taught  us  the  doctrine  of  humility.  King  though  he  was,  he 
rode  into  Jerusalem  upon  the  colt  of  an  ass — not  in  a  chariot,  not  with 
military  attendants,  not  with  the  blare  of  trumpets  and  the  beating 
of  drums,  but  under  the  most  humble  circumstances  that  the  human 
mind  can  well  conceive. 

He  was  born  into  the  world  as  we  are  born  into  it,  the  son  of  a 
righteous,  God-chosen  mother.  He  lived  very  much  as  we  live.  He 
grew  up  as  we  grow  up,  except  for  the  manifestation  of  his  wisdom  and 
godly  calling  which  characterized  even  his  childhood,  his  youth.  He 
died  very  much  as  we  would  have  died,  subjected  to  the  same  conditions. 

It  appeared,  after  all,  that  the  end  had  come.  He  had  taught  the 
doctrine  of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead,  but  his  disciples  did  not 
fully  understand,  and  when  they  saw  him  give  up  the  ghost,  and  laid 
His  body  away  in  the  sepulcher  prepared  by  his  devoted  friend,  Joseph 
of  Arimathea,  who  is  said  to  have  been  the  uncle  of  Mary,  his  mother, 
it  appeared  to  them  that  the  end  had  come.  And  they  said :  After  all, 
there  is  nothing  to  it.  I  am  going  back  to  my  fishery.  I  shall  go 
back  to  my  life  as  a  publican.  I  shall  pursue  the  avocation  that  I 
pursued  before  I  knew  him. 

HE  WAS  NOT  THERE 

But  when  the  good  women  came  up  that  Sunday  morning  which 
we  commemorate  today,  not  expecting  to  find  his  sepulcher  empty,  but 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  49 


expecting  to  administer  to  him  the  last  rites  which  it  was  customary 
among  the  Hebrew  people  to  administer  to  the  dead,  he  was  not  there. 
An  angel  of  the  Lord  was  there.  The  great  stone  which  Pilate  had 
ordered  to  be  placed  before  the  opening  of  the  sepulcher,  and  sealed 
with  a  Roman  signet,  had  been  rolled  aside.  The  body  of  their  Lord 
was  gone.  The  linen  cloths  were  there,  in  which  his  head  had  been 
bound.  The  angel  asked  them  why  they  sought  the  living  among  the 
dead. 

You  are  all  familiar,  you  who  read  the  scripture,  with  the  story  of 
his  glorious  resurrection.  You  all  know  that  his  disciples  could  not 
believe  it  when  word  was  taken  to  them  that  he  had  been  raised  from 
the  dead.  To  them  it  appeared  to  be  an  impossibility.  While  they  were 
met  together,  with  the  doors  closed,  and  he  appeared  before  them,  they 
looked  upon  him  in  wonder  and  some  doubted.  Thomas  said :  I  will 
not  believe  until  I  see  the  marks  of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and  feet,  and 
the  wound  |pf  the  [Roman  sspear-thrust  in  his  side.  And  he  did  see 
them.  Then  he  bowed  down  and  worshipped  him  as  his  Lord  and 
God,  just  as  we  worship  him  today. 

He  taught  us  the  doctrine  of  forgiveness.    He  said  to  the  sinful 
woman  when  her  own  people  would  have  stoned  her  to  death :   "Go  thy 
way  and  sin  no  more."    Among  his  last  words  he  said,  of  those  who 
.  were  responsible  for  his  death:    "Father,  forgive  them.    They  know 
not  what  they  do." 

HE  LIVED  AGAIN 

He  lived  again.  It  was  after  his  resurrection  that  he  authorized 
his  disciples  to  go  into  the  world  and  preach  his  gospel,  and  promised 
them  that  the  signs  should  follow — not  during  his  mortal  life  had  he 
given  them  such  general  authority. 

The  Bible  bears  witness  that  not  only  the  body  of  Christ  arose 
from  the  grave,  but  that  many  of  the  graves  were  opened,  and  people, 
with  their  resurrected  bodies,  went  forth  into  the  great  city,  and  ap- 
peared unto  many. 

He  appeared  after,  with  his  glorified  body,  to  the  inhabitants  of  our 
own  continent.  They  saw  him.  They  heard  his  voice.  He  taught  them 
the  same  doctrines  that  he  taught  to  his  people  in  the  promised  land,  or 
in  Jerusalem.    So  we  know  that  he  lived  again. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  the  great  lesson  that  he  teaches  us: 
This  is  what  I  have  endeavored,  in  few  words,  to  present  to  you: 
Just  as  Christ  lived  and  died  and  was  resurrected  from  the  dead,  so  do 
we  live  and  die,  and  so  are  we  resurrected  from  the  dead,  or  else  there 
is  no  truth  in  the  revealed  will  of  ithe  Lord  as  it  is  written  in  the  holy 
scripture. 

IT  WAS  A  REVELATION 

.  I  admonish  you  all  to  read  the  last  book  of  the  Bible,  the  revelation 
given  to  St.  John.  We  call  it  the  Apocalypse.  Reflect  for  a  moment  on 
the  manner  in  which  it  came.  John  tells  us  that  it  was  a  revelation  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord;  that  he  sent  and  communicated  it  to  him 
through  the  agency  of  an  angel— he  did  not  go  himself ;  and  then  the 


so 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


wonderful  revelations  which  are  made  regarding  the  earth  and  its  in- 
habitants, the  future  which  is  before  us,  were  delivered  by  this  personage 
to  John,  the  divine  disciple  of  Christ  our  Lord,  who  had  been  banished 
to  the  isle  of  Patmos  by  decree  of  the  Roman  governor. 

And  what  did  he  tell  John?  John  says:  He  showed  me  these 
things.  I  saw  that  the  graves  were  opened ;  and  the  dead  came  forth, 
that  small,  and  great  arose  from  them ;  that  they  appeared  before  God 
to  be  judged  according  to  the  things  which  are  written  in  the  books, 
according  to  their  works.  All  men,  he  declared,  are  to  be  the  bene- 
ficiaries of  the  redemption  wrought  out  by  Christ,  our  Lord.  The  sea 
gave  up  the  dead  which  were  in  it.  The  graves  were  opened,  and  the 
dead  came  forth,  and  death  and  hell  gave  up  the  dead  that  were  in  them. 
They  came  to  judgment,  every  man  and  woman  according  to  the  works 
done  while  they  were  in  mortality,  as  we  are  in  mortality  now.  Re- 
vealing to  us  definitely  the  obligation  that  we  are  under  to  God,  our 
Father,  to  live  righteous  lives,  to  accomplish  good  purposes,  to  fulfil 
the  mission  for  which  we  have  been  sent  to  earth,  in  a  manner  that 
will  be  pleasing  to  God  our  Father,  and  justified  when  the  balance 
sheet  is  struck. 

"no  more  death" 

And  then  what  else  did  John  tell  us? — I  saw  a  new  heaven  and 
a  new  earth,  for  the  old  heaven  and  the  old  earth  had  passed  away. 
And  there  was  no  more  death,  neither  weeping  nor  sorrow,  for  all  of 
those  things  had  been  done  away. 

Does  this  bring  a  degree  of  resignation  to  us?  Does  it  bring 
happiness  to  us  in  time  of  trouble  and  sorrow?  What  does  it  all 
mean?  It  means  that  every  wife  who  has  stood  at  the  bier  of  her 
husband,  whom  death  has  called,  has  hope  that  the  separation  is  only 
temporary.  It  means  that  every  husband  who  has  laid  away  his  wife  has 
that  same  hope,  if  he  understands.  It  means  that  mothers  who  have 
mourned  the  loss  of  children,  relatives  who  have  mourned  the  loss  of 
friends  that  have  been  separated  from  them  by  death,  have  joy  and 
consolation  in  the  knowledge,  the  definite  knowledge  which  has  come 
to  us,  that  there  will  be  restoration  from  death  in  the  life  to  come. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  me.  I  glory  in  it.  So  I  bear  witness  to 
this  large  congregation  of  people  that  we  are  redeemed  from  this  change 
from  mortality  to  immortality,  which  we  call  death,  through  the  re- 
demption wrought  out  by  Christ  our  Lord.  He  is  our  Redeemer.  He 
is  our  Savior  and  if  we  are  true  to  him,  we  will  be  entitled  to  sit  upon  his 
right  hand  in  the  mansions  of  God  our  Father,  when  our  mortal  lives 
are  ended.  Every  covenant,  every  promise  made  to  men  and  women 
upon  earth,  which  is  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  will  go  with 
us  into  the  life  to  come. 

A  MAN  OF  SORROW 

Who  was  this  man  that  made  all  of  this  possible?  He  was  not  a 
man  of  wealth.  He  was  not  a  man  of  great  national  notoriety.  He 
had  no  home  to  call  his  own.  He  had  no  place  to  lay  his  head.  He 
was  not  a  man  who  sought  the  praise  of  the  world,  not  one  to  magnify 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  51 


himself  to  the  exclusion  of  others ;  but  one  who,  while  in  reality  a  king, 
was  not  a  king  as  we  interpret  that  word  to  mean  in  human  life.  He 
washed  the  feet  of  his  humble  followers.  He  was  not  well  known  in 
Jerusalem,  where  he  ministered ;  it  was  necessary  that  someone  point 
him  out  that  the  officers  of  the  law  might  know  who  this  man  was  that 
was  making  such  great  disturbance.  A  man  of  humility !  A  man  of  sor- 
row! It  is  said  of  him  that  no  one  ever  heard  him  laugh,  but  many 
people  saw  him  weep,  weep  because  of  the  sins  of  the  world,  weep 
because  of  his  love  for  an  unbelieving  people,  his  own  people,  to  whom 
he  came  but  who  rejected  him  as  a  malefactor  and  an  imposter. 

THE  EARTH  IS  HAPPY 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  these  are  things  which  these  Easter  lilies 
have  brought  to  my  mind.  These  are  things  which  this  springtime 
day  recalls.  How  like  our  own  lives !  How  like  mortality  is  the  earth 
itself !  Winter  time  comes.  The  earth  appears  to  die.  Ice  and  snow 
enfold  it.  Should  it  continue  so,  the  earth  would  not  be  habitable.  It 
would  become  like  the  frozen  country  to  the  south  of  us  which  Byrd 
has  so  recently  explored,  devoid  of  vegetation,  devoid  of  life,  bleak, 
hopeless,  uninhabitable.  But  the  Lord  has  so  provided  that  the  sun 
comes  back  to  us,  or  the  earth  moves  back  to  the  sun,  the  winter 
snows  and  ice  are  melted,  and  springtime  comes.  These  trees,  barren 
now  of  leaves,  shoot  out  their  buds,  and  put  on  their  summer  garments. 
The  birds  sing  again.  The  earth  is  happy.  So  do  I  see  our  own  lives 
illustrated  in  these  things  of  mortality  with  which  we  are  surrounded. 
God  help  us  all  to  appreciate  them.  God  help  us  all  to  understand  that 
the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  a  reality,  not  a  mythical  thing,  but  a 
reality;  and  that  it  may  apply  to  us  all,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

Secpnd  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

It  is  a  great  responsibility,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand  before 
a  congregation  like  this,  and  I  feel  the  need  of  your  faith,  your 
sympathy  and  your  prayers,  for  of  myself  I  am  not  able  to  enlighten 
your  minds ;  but  if  the  Lord  will  favor  us,  and  will  favor  me  with  the 
power  of  his  Spirit,  then  by  that  power  the  mind  is  enlightened. 

I  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  that  which  has  been  delivered  by 
President  Ivins.  iWe  believe  literally  and  truly  in  the  resurrection  from 
the  dead.  It  is  taught  in  our  books  of  scripture — the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  as  well  as  the  Bible.  So  we  have 
good  ground  for  our  belief  with  respect  to  that. 

ON  STRANGE  TIMES 

The  world  has  fallen  on  strange  times.  The  times  are  out  of 
joint.  Troubles  have  been  ere  now,  and  many  of  them,  in  the  history 
of  the  world.  But  history  gives  us  no  example  of  anything  like  the 
world-wide  troublesome  conditions  that  prevail  at  this  very  day.  There 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  perplexity  of  nations.  And  it  is  in  fulfilment  of  the  word  of  the  Lord. 
The  Elders  of  this  Church  for  a  hundred  years  have  been  preaching  this 
Gospel,  from  the  Bible,  from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  from  the  revelations 
given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  proclaiming  that  the 
time  of  the  end  is  nigh  at  hand,  that  the  Savior  of  the  world,  our 
Redeemer,  would  come  again,  and  that  the  time  of  his  coming  was  nigh. 

AS  A  YOUNG  MISSIONARY 

I  myself,  sixty-two  years  ago  this  summer,  went  from  this  city  as 
a  young  missionary,  twenty  years  of  age,  to  proclaim  this  very  doctrine, 
•bearing  witness  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  true,  and  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  in  very  deed  a  prophet,  raised  up  to  warn  the  world  in  this 
last  dispensation — the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times.  Of  course 
many  times  we  were  not  listened  to,  even  with  tolerance.  Wte  were 
ridiculed,  decried  ;  contumely  heaped  upon  us.  Nevertheless,  the  Elders 
persevered,  knowing  of  a  certainty  that  what  they  went  forth  to  preach 
was  true,  was  revealed  from  heaven.  They  were  converted  by  the 
same  spirit  that  Peter  said  converted  the  Apostles.  The  Savior  asked 
the  Apostles : 

"Whom  do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am? 

"And  they  said,  Some  say  that  thou  art  John  the  Baptist;  some  Elias;  and 
others  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

"He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say  ye  that  I  am? 

"And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said,  Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar-jona: 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven. 

"And  I  say  unto  thee,  That  thou  art  Peter,  and  upon  this  rock  will  I  build 
my  church;  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail  against  it." 

What  rock?  The  rock  of  revelation.  And  by  the  spirit  and  power 
of  revelation,  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Lord  has  made 
us  to  know  and  understand  in  this  day  that  this  is  indeed  and  of  a  truth 
the  work  of  the  Lord. 

TROUBLE  AND  DISTRESS 

This  nation  of  ours,  which  is  the  best  in  the  world,  the  freest,  the 
most  choice  land  upon  all  the  earth,  so  we  are  told  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon— "a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands" — is  going  through  a  series 
of  troubles.  All  is  not  well  with  us  by  a  long  way.  I  don't  think  we  are 
as  badly  off  in  these  mountain  valleys  as  they  are  in  many  other  parts 
of  the  United  States.  I  think  there  is  a  little  more  of  a  feeling  of  safety 
right  here  than  I  can  find  anywhere  else  in  the  country.  At  least  I 
feel  it  so,  and  I  believe  many  others  do. 

IN  EFFECT  AN  INCREASE 

Certainly  a  very  large  proportion  of  our  community  have  been 
kept  steadily  at  work  and  their  wages  have  not  been  reduced.  Among 
these  could  be  mentioned  all  of  the.  federal  employes  in  the  state, 
including  all  postofhce  employes  and  mail  carriers.  And  there  has  been 
a  considerable  proportion  of  our  people  employed  by  the  state,  by  the 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY  53 


different  counties,  and  by  the  different  municipalities.  Also  a  very 
large  number  of  school  teachers  throughout  the  state,  and  employes  in 
hundreds  of  different  companies,  large  and  small,  have  remained  un- 
changed. And  the  same  with  all  Church  employes  in  offices,  schools 
and  temples. 

All  these  taken  together  would  probably  amount  to  one  hundred 
thousand  men  and  women  drawing  the  same  salaries  that  they  were 
paid  in  1928-1929.  Now  the  government's  bulletin  states  that  prices 
are  thirty-two  per  cent  lower  than  they  were  in  1928.  That  means  then 
that  these  people,  instead  of  having  their  wages  reduced,  have  had  in 
effect  an  increase  of  wages  of  thirty  per  cent  or  better.  So  taken  all 
together  Utah  is  not  in  such  a  bad  fix,  after  all. 

But  the  country  as  a  whole  is  going  through  a  period  of  trouble 
and  distress. 

"after  your  testimony" 

As  I  have  told  you,  we  young  Elders  preached  that  this  was  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times — the  last  dispensation;  that  there 
would  be  no  other  following  this  dispensation  of  the  Gospel.  The  Lord 
has  given  notice  that  these  are  the  last  times,  and  the  people  must  be 
warned.  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every 
creature,"  and  so  forth.   We  have  been  trying  to  do  that  faithfully. 

Among  other  things,  in  warning  the  people,  we  have  quoted — many 
of  our  Elders  have  done — from  the  eighty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  beginning  with  the  eighty-eighth  verse : 

"And  after  your  testimony  cometh  wrath  and  indignation  upon  the  people. 

"For  after  your  testimony  cometh  the  testimony  of  earthquakes,  that  shall 
cause  groanings  in  the  midst  of  her,  and  men  shall  fall  upon  the  ground  and 
shall  not  be  able  to  stand. 

"And  also  cometh  the  testimony  of  the  voice  of  thunderings,  and  the  voice 
of  lightnings,  and  the  voice  of  tempests,  and  the  voice  of  the  waves  of  the  sea 
heaving  themselves  beyond  their  bounds. 

"And  all  things  shall  be  in  commotion;  and  surely,  men's  hearts  shall  fail 
them;  for  fear  shall  come  upon  all  people." 

These  are  among  the  warnings  that  were  given  and  have  been 
given  with  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel.  I  myself  have  felt :  "O,  well, 
it  is  true ;  I  know  it  will  come  to  pass ;  but  it  will  not  come  in  my  time ; 
I  am  not  likely  to  be  troubled  with  it."  Well,  the  last  few  weeks,  the 
last  few  months,  the  last  year,  the  world  has  witnessed  what  it  has 
never  witnessed  before  in  its  history.  So  many  of  these  calamities  that 
this  revelation  calls  our  attention  to  have  come  upon  the  children  of  men, 
and  fear  begins  to  enter  into  the  hearts  of  the  people. 

I  do  not  think  it  is  a  good  thing  to  frighten  people.  I  don't  preach 
this  doctrine  in  this  way.  I  only  call  attention  to  these  truths,  for  they 
are  true — these  prophecies  are  true.  More  and  more  will  these  things 
occur  in  our  history,  as  time  goes  on.  For  the  Lord's  work  will  be 
accomplished,  and  he  will  accomplish  it  in  his  own  way. 

A  FAMINE  IN  THE  LAND 

Meanwhile  it  is  our  work  to  build  up  the  Church  and  kingdom  of 
God,  to  preach  the  Gospel.    I  said  last  evening  in  the  priesthood  meet- 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ing:  "What  a  dearth  there  is  for  missionaries  to  preach  this  Gospel!" 
Do  you  know  there  is  a  famine  in  the  land,  you  elders  of  Israel,  bishops, 
presidents?  Positively  there  is  a  famine  in  the  land,  "not  a  famine  of 
bread,  nor  a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing  the  words  of  the  Lord." 
You  presidents  of  missions  and  others  testify  of  it.  People  are  hunger- 
ing for  the  word  of  God.  A  perfect  famine  exists,  and  this  Church 
is  the  agency  by  fwhich  that  can  be  supplied,  and  the  only  agency  in  all 
the  world  that  can  supply  it.  We  are  somewhat  derelict  in  our  duty  in 
respect  to  this  matter.  There  is  no  use  mincing  words,  brethren  and 
sisters.  You  sisters  can  do  much  to  encourage  the  brethren,  and  you  do.  ' 
I  think  you  are  better  than  the  men  are,  more  faithful.  The  splendid 
work  that  these  sisters  do  in  the  Relief  Society,  Sister  Robison  and 
her  helpers,  Sister  jFox  and  her  helpers,  Sister  Anderson  and  hers — 
the  great  work  they  are  doing  in  helping  along  these  matters  is  worthy 
of  all  praise.  And  sisters,  you  can  say  to  your  husbands,  your  brothers, 
your  sons :  "We  can  spare  a  missionary.  We  can  sacrifice  that  much 
for  the  Church." 

SACRIFICE  AND  SAVING 

I  have  begun  to  think  lately  that  there  is  not  a  sufficient  spirit  of 
sacrifice  among  us.  There  are  two  things  that  we  have  lost  lately — 
sacrifice  and  saving.  We  don't  know  how  to  save  a  dollar  now,  to  put 
away  a  dollar  for  a  rainy  day.  Not  one  family  in  a  dozen  thinks  of  it. 
They  will  tell  you :  "Oh,  we  don't  have  enough  to  live  on  as  it  is." 
The  wife  or  the  daughter  will  say :  "Why  we  haven't  any  money  to 
spare.   I  haven't  had  a  new  dress  for  so  and  so,  and  so  and  so." 

Senator  Smoot  told  us  the  other  day  that  of  all  the  nations  of  the 
earth  the  one  that  suffered  the  most  in  blood  and  treasure  in  the  late  war 
— France — is  the  most  prosperous  nation  in  all  the  world  today.  And 
why  are  they  prosperous  ?  I  will  tell  you  in  two  words :  they  work  and 
save.  We  won't  be  prosperous,  and  no  other  people  will  be  prosperous, 
only  upon  those  conditions.  We  have  lost  the  idea  of  saving.  I  know 
many  families,  in  fact  most  that  I  do  know — their  children  see  more 
picture  shows  in  a  month  than  I  ever  saw — well  of  course  we  did  not 
have  picture  shows  in  my  day.  They  have  money  to  spend  to  fill  these  , 
picture  shows.  I  do  when  I  am  dragged  into  one  by  some  of  my  chil- 
dren and  I  try  to  laugh  and  enjoy  it,  and  sometimes  do  get  a  laugh  out  of 
it.  But,  oh,  there  is  so  much  trash  in  it  all.  And  yet  these  places  are 
full  every  day.  They  are  full  today  you  will  find  if  any  of  you  should 
go  there.  I  hope  you  won't  go  and  spend  your  money  so  foolishly. 
But  we  fill  these  picture  houses.  If  you  were  to  say  to  the  mother  of 
those  children  that  must  see  everything  that  comes  to  town:  "Why 
not  practice  a  little  self-denial  and  have  these  children  do  without  a 
picture  show.  Save  that  money  and  put  their  names  on  the  tithing 
record,"  she  would  very  likely  reply,  "Oh  heavens,  would  you  want  to 
stop  the  children  from  going  to  a  picture  show,  a  little  thing  like  that?" 
So  I  repeat,  we  have  lost  the  forcefulness  of  these  two  words— sacrifice 
and  saving. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  55 


'  WORTH  EVERYTHING 

I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  this  Gospel  of  ours,  this  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  this  priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God 
that  has  been  conferred  upon  us  is  worth  everything.  I  ought  to  be 
ready  to  sacrifice  everything  for  it.  I  covenant  in  my  prayers  time  and 
time  again  to  "dedicate  all  unto  thee."  Yet  the  words  are  meaningless, 
if  I  am  not  ready  to  say :  "I  will  go  on  a  mission ;  glad  to  go ;  glad  to 
sacrifice  for  the  work."  The  children  wouldn't  be  able  to  see  so  many 
picture  shows,  but  they  will  be  just  as  good  children,  let  me  tell  you, 
just  as  able,  and  I  believe  more  so,  because  a  lot  of  what  we  call 
education  is  not  very  good  education.  I  would  rather  have  faith  im- 
planted into  the  hearts  of  children,  faith  in  this  work,  a  true  testimony 
of  the  Gospel,  than  mere  intellectuality.  Do  not  misunderstand  me. 
I  am  in  favor  of  education.  I  believe  in  it.  '  If  there  is  any  people  in 
the  world  who  have  proved  they  are  in  favor  of  education  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  proved  it  by  the  millions  of  dollars  that  we  have  poured  out 
for  education.  I  wish  we  had  educated  men  with  degrees  everywhere — 
if  only  they  would  retain  their  faith  as  they  get  their  degrees.  For  this 
faith  is  worth  more  than  degrees.  That  is  the  point  I  would  like  to 
send  home. 

"give  us  faith" 

Oh  God,  increase  our  faith,  and  give  us  faith  enough,  power  enough 
that  we  may  be  able  to  sacrifice,  and  in  order  to  make  the  sacrifice  that 
we  will  save  dollar  by  dollar  first  and  then  be  ready  and  willing  to  say : 
"Here  it  is.  I  am  going  to  spend  it  for  the  upbuilding  of  the  kingdom 
of  God." 

There  is  a  famine  in  the  land,  again  I  say,  not  for  bread,  but  for 
the  word  of  God,  and  the  responsibility,  my  brother,  my  sister,  rests 
on  you  and  me  and  all  of  us  to  supply  this  want,  this  extreme  need. 

That  the  Lord  will  give  us  faith  and  persistence  and  courage ;  that 
he  will  stay  the  powers  of  evil  from  us ;  that  we  may  be  kept  as  in  the 
hollow  of  his  hand ;  that  all  things  may  be  overruled  for  the  good  of 
them  who  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  is  my  most  humble 
and  earnest  prayer. 

God  'bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  You  are  the  best  there 
are,  after  all  is  said  and  done.  You  are  the  salt  of  the  earth,  because 
you  and  your  fathers  and  mothers  have  sacrificed.  They  knew  what 
the  word  meant  and  they  ifollowed  it,  and  they  lived  through  it.  My 
parents  did,  far  more  than  I  have  had  to  do,  but  they  did  it,  and  that  is 
why  I  am  here,  because  of  their  help  and  their  example. 

Now,  derelict  as  we  may  be  in  some  things,  we  are  the  chosen  of 
the  Lord.  You  bishops  and  counselors,  you  presidents  of  stakes, 
presidents  of  missions,  great  responsibilities  rest  upon  you.  You  are 
called  of  God,  brethren,  and  sisters  likewise,  called  in  the  same  way, 
by  the  same  power.  Let  us  honor  that  call.  Let  us  be  faithful.  Let 
us  resolve  anew,  here  and  now,  that  we  will,  God  helping  us,  keep  his 
commandments.  And  we  will  sacrifice,  and  we  will  save  our  means, 
and  be  prudent  and  frugal  and  wise  in  all  things. 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  humbly  pray  that  his  blessings  may  be  with  us  to  this  end,  through 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  iMelvin  J.  Ballard  sang  a  solo,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Lives,"  the  Choir  and  congregation  singing  the  chorus. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  favored  today  by  having  with  us  Dr.  H.  E.  Barnard,  of 
Washington,  D.  C,  Director  of  the  White  House  Conference  on  Child 
Health  and  Protection.  We  will  ask  him  to  please  come  to  the  stand 
and  address  us.  ,    -  .  , 

DR.  H.  E.  BARNARD 

Director  of  the  Wihite  House  Conference  on  Child  Health  and  Protection 

Oh,  how  I  wish  every  father  and  mother,  every  lover  of  children 
in  this  great  country  of  ours,  could  be  here  with  us  this  morning,  to 
sit,  as  I  have  been  sitting,  and  receive  the  inspiration  given  you  in 
your  great  Church,  from  your  leaders ;  to  hear  this  wonderful  music 
swelling  out  from  this  great  Tabernacle!  I  am  sure  they  would  all 
realize,  as  I  realize,  that  our  children  are  in  good  hands,  and  that  the 
citizens  of  tomorrow  will  be  finer  citizens  even  than  the  citizens  of 
today. 

I  speak  to  you  as  a  messenger  from  Washington,  representing  the 
White  House  Conference  on  Child  Health  and  Protection.  How  for- 
tunate it  is  that  this  conference,  called  by  the  Governor  of  Utah,  will 
be  held  in_this  city  immediately  following  this  great  conference  of  your 
Church.  Certainly  there  has  never  been  a  time  more  opportune  to 
hope  for  the  children  of  the  future  everything  which  is  guaranteed  to 
them  by  the  Children's  Charter,  adopted  at  the  close  of  the  White  House 
Conference  in  Washington  last  November. 

May  I  read  to  you  the  first  paragraph  of  that  great  Charter,  because 
I  know  every  member  of  your  Church,  and  every  citizen  of  the  country, 
wishes  for  every  child  spiritual  and  moral  training  to  help  him  to 
stand  firm  under  the  pressure  of  life: 

"For  every  child  understanding,  and  the  guarding  of  his  personality  as  his 
most  precious  right;  and  for  every  child  a  home,  and  that  love  and  security 
which  a  home  provides." 

May  I,  speaking  for  the  twelve  hundred  members  of  the  White 
House  Conference,  who  have  labored  for  a  long  time  to  bring  together 
facts  on  which  we  can  build  a  finer  world  for  our  children,  bring  you 
my  grateful  thanks  for  the ,  opportunity  you  have  given  me  to  stand 
before  you  this  morning. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


57 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  President  of  the 
European  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  must  confess  that  during-  the 
last  few  years  I  have  thought  with  longing  of  you  and  these  great 
assemblies,  when  the  time  of  the  General  Conferences  has  arrived.  The 
■opportunity  to  mingle  with  you  now,  and  to  feel  of  your  spirit,  and 
this  day  to  declare  with  you  my  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  fills  my 
heart  with  gratitude. 

THE  SAME  SPIRIT  AND  PURPOSE 

I  am  grateful  for  the  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  has  been  given  me — the  greatest  gift  that  I  possess. 
I  rejoice  this  day  that  the  spirit  which  I  have  felt  in  these  gatherings 
yesterday  and  today  is  quite  the  same  spirit  as  that  which  I  have  felt 
in  the  small  gatherings  in  the  various  European  countries.  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  speak  and  hear  by  the 
•same  spirit.  They  understand  one  another  by  that  same  spirit.  This 
is  one  great  church,  whether  in  Salt  Lake  City  or  in  the  far  distant 
branches  of  the  missions,  one  people,  with  one  understanding,  with 
one  purpose,  with  one  holy  desire  to  please  the  Almighty  Father. 

I  think  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  going 
forward  satisfactorily  in  the  European  missions.  Never  before,  because 
Of  the  new  inventions  and  discoveries  for  the  dissemination  of  truth, 
has  the  testimony  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
been  so  widely  spattered,  and  made  to  reach  so  many  people,  as  at 
this  time. 

GREETINGS  FROM   THE  EUROPEAN  MISSIONS 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  faithful,  devoted,  intelligent 
mission  presidents  who  have  charge  of  the  affairs  of  the  European 
missions.  They  and  their  wives  are  doing  splendid  work.  Your  sons 
are  safe  in  their  hands. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Elders  themselves,  young  men,  but 
desirous  of  doing  their  work  with  all  their  might,  and  accomplishing 
a  wonderful  work,  through  the  assistance  of  their  Father  in  heaven. 

And  I  bring  you  in  particular  greetings  from  the  membership  of 
the  Church  in  the  European  lands,  a  body  of  faithful  men  and  women, 
loving  the  Gospel  just  as  we  love  it  here;  ready  to  sacrifice  and  to  save, 
if  they  can,  as  President  Nibley  has  suggested ;  ready  to  do  whatever 
may  be  demanded  of  them,  insofar  as  their  strength  permits.  They  live 
in  the  outposts  of  Zion,  but  they  are  ready  and  willing  to  labor  there, 
and  to  help  maintain  and  retain  those  outposts  until  such  time  as  in 
the  providences  of  the  Lord  we  may  have  larger  units  of  the  Church, 
teven  in  those  far-distant  countries. 

A  NEW  DAY 

Opposition  and  oppression  have  very  largely  vanished  from  •  our 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


work  in  the  European  lands.  A  new  day  has  dawned,  and  it  seems 
to  us,  who  labor  there,  that  if  the  Lord  will  only  bless  our  efforts  it 
may  be  possible,  in  the  near  future,  to  bring  a  convincing  message  of 
the  truth  of  this  work  to  the  hearts  of  thousands  in  those  lands  who 
are  honest  in  heart. 

SPIRITUAL  INDIFFERENCE 

We  have  many  difficulties ;  there  is  no  question  about  that ;  there 
are  difficulties  on  every  hand ;  the  greatest  difficulty,  perhaps,  that  we 
have  to  contend  with  is  the  spiritual  or  religious  indifference  of  the 
present  day.  It  is  an  indifference  which  seems  to  cover  the  earth 
everywhere.  It  takes  the  form  of  a  resentment  or  revulsion  against 
organized  religion — not  so  much  a  contempt  for  religion  itself,  for 
the  principles  of  it,  but  rather  a  contempt  or  near-contempt  for  the 
organized  forms  of  religion,  for  the  churches  themselves.  Every  man 
seems  to  be  willing  to  do  as  best  he  can  under  the  law,  to  live  a 
wholesome  and  a  proper  life,  but  unwilling  to  conform  to  the  regulations 
and  practices  of  any  church. 

It  is  commonly  said  throughout  the  world  that  there  is  no  need 
of  a  church  today.  In  pondering  upon  this  subject  the  thought  has 
come  to  me  and  has  lingered  with  me,  that  perhaps  this  rebuke  of 
organized  religion  is  a  rebuke  to  the  fundamental  conception  of  religion 
as  taught  in  the  world  today. 

MAN-MADE  GODS 

Out  of  the  thunderings  of  Sinai  came  the  word  of  the  Lord.  The 
first  commandment  wa|S :  "Thou  shalt  have  no  other  gods  before  me." 
Throughout  the  long  ages  after  that  command  was  given,  men  gradu- 
ally forsook  their  graven  images,  their  worship  of  stock  and  stone, 
and  gradually  Jehovah,  the  God  of  Israel,  became  the  God  of  many, 
or  perhaps  most  of  the  foremost  people  of  the  world.  Gradually  the 
simple  conception  of  God  as  the  father  of  humanity  prevailed,  or  began 
to  prevail  upon  the  earth.  Then,  after  the  days  of  Jesu,s,  when  men 
(should  have  known  better,  when  the  Christ,  and  God  through  him,  had 
been  revealed,  men  again  departed  from  the  truth,  and  made  unto 
themselves  gods,  this  time  in  an  immaterial  realm,  but  man-made  just 
as  truly  as  the  man-made  gods  of  wood  and  stone  and  iron  of  earlier 
ages. 

I  believe  that  the  spiritual  resentment  in  the  world  today  has 
resulted  from  the  idolatry  which  still  lingers  upon  the  earth,  the  attempt 
to  force  men  to  worship  a  God  that  is  man-made,  an  incomprehensible 
God,  an  essence,  one  who  is  so  far  from  us  in  understanding  that 
men  cannot  bow  down  before  him  a,s  they  should,  and  pray  to  him 
as  a  child  should  pray  to  his  father. 

THE  TRUE  GOD 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  able  to  answer  this  great  need  of 
humanity  and  to  define  God  properly.  In  the  mission  field,  whether  in 
Europe  or  elsewhere,  it  is  the  greatest  message  that  the  Church  has  to 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


59 


give  to  the  world  today — the  true  definition  and  the  true  conception 
of  God  our  Father,  the  maker  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth.  He  as 
a  personage  who  is  literally  our  father  in  a  pre-existent  state,  to  whom 
we  can  speak  as  sons  or  daughters  speak  to  their  father;  with  whom 
they  can  take  counsel  and  be' intimate;  a  God  to  whom  we  may  express 
our  inmost  desires,  and  from  whom  we  may  expect  answers  from 
time  to  time  to  satisfy  our  hearts'  inmost  desires. 

.  I  pray  in  my  heart  and  by  word  of  mouth  that  the  true  conception 
and  knowledge  of  the  Father  of  us  all,  may,  through  our  agency,  be 
spread  abroad  among  the  nations,  to  make  happy  the  many  thousands, 
tens  of  thousands  and  millions  of  honest  souls  who  today  are  lost  in 
a  modern  type  of  idolatrous  worship.  It  is  perhaps  a  strong  word  to 
use,  but  a  thought  or  conception  may  be  as  man-made  as  is  a  material 
thing. 

IWe  find,  as  we  travel  about  in  the  European  missions,  that  men 
respond  to  a  correct  doctrine  concerning  divinity.  They  are  eager  to 
learn  the  truth  about  their  Maker.  When  the  superstitions  of  the  past 
and  the  crust,  of  misunderstanding  and  false  teaching  are  broken 
through,  then  men  and  women  rejoice  in  the  new  understanding  of 
man's  relationship  to  the  Maker  of  us  all. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  FIRST  VISION 

I  rejoice  in  the  glorious  first  vision  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  greatest  of  the  visions  and  teachings  of  these  latter  days.  On 
that  occasion  God  himself  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  stood  before  the 
boy,  kneeling  in  humble,  earnest  prayer,  in  the  little  grove  in  New 
■York  State.  Joseph  then  held  converse  with  God.  In  humility  and 
simplicity  he  dared  to  state  his  heart's  need,  and  God  spoke  to  him, 
and  commissioned  his  Son  to  speak  yet  further  to  him,  so  that  the 
lad  might  understand  and  might  be  prepared  for  the  great  work  for 
which  he  had  been  chosen  before  the  foundations  of  the  earth  were  laid. 

This  is  a  glorious  gift  of  these  latter  days,  and  we  must  stand  upon 
it  firmly,  without  yielding.  We  must  teach  forever  and  to  all  people 
the  truth  of  the  fatherhood  of  God,  of  the  sonship  of  man,  of  the 
eternal  relationship  of  God  and  man.  Then  we  shall  be  blessed,  and 
God  will  look  down  upon  us  in  mercy  and  give  us  strength  to  do  the 
things  that  we  are  required  to  do,  that  we  may  win  full  salvation  on 
this  earth  and  in  the  life  to  come. 

AUTHORITATIVE  LEADERSHIP 

Men  ask  for  more  than  a  knowledge  of  God.  Men  do  not  know 
the  truth  of  themselves.  Men  are  suffering,  hungering  for  authoritative 
leadership.  Men  have  been  led  by  men  so  long,  churches  have  been 
made  by  man  so  often,  things  have  come  through  human  agencies  for 
so  many  years,  that  in  this  day  of  high  intelligence,  of  the  greatest 
knowledge  of  the  world,  men  resent  the  thought  that  when  they  deal 
with  the  greatest  of  all  realities,  religion  and  all  that  pertains  to  it, 
they  must  follow  man-made  leadership — leadership  that  is  of  one  type 
in  one  church,  of  another  type  in  another  church ;  leadership  that  may 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  subject  to  parliamentary  debate  and  rule,  that  may  be  determined 
by  the  voice  of  a  community. 

The  world  is  hungering  and  reaching  out  for  authoritative  leader- 
ship. Mankind  has  long  followed  the  prophets  of  old,  which  indeed 
have  been  of  human  service,  but  today  men  say :  "Moses  was  a  great 
prophet ;  Isaiah,  Jeremiah,  Malachi,  were  all  great  prophets,  but  they 
belong  to  the  past.  We  live  today.  We  want  the  same  authoritative 
leadership  today  that  was  enjoyed  by  the  people  of  the  past." 

The  world  is  asking  for  a  living  prophet,  one  who  can  interpret  the 
prophets  of  old  "to  the  people  and  generations  of  this  day.  We  have 
this  very  offering  to  make  to  the  world.  We  are  able  to  give  humanity 
what  they  need  in  the  way  of  authoritative  leadership;  for  we  declare 
in  all  solemnity,  without  hesitation,  that  God  not  only  spoke  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  but  conferred  upon  him  the  power  and  author- 
ity of  the  eternal,  everlasting,  unchangeable,  indestructible  Priesthood 
of  Almighty  God,  the  power  by  which  the  heavens  were  made,  and 
the  earth  was  made,  and  all  the  things  we  know  were  made.  By  that 
power,  or  the  portion  that  was  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the 
work  that  the  Lord  intended  for  the  salvation  of  mankind  will  be 
established  and  conducted  and  continued  until  the  purposes  of  the  Lord 
have  been  completed. 

TEACEfERS  OF  THE  WORLD 

The  world  is  looking  for  such  authority.  We  must  stand  upon 
our  feet  as  men  and  as  women  possessing  the  true  knowledge  and 
authority  of  God,  and  teach  it  without  hesitation  to  all  the  world. 
We  are  not  to  be  taught  of  the  world.  We  are  the  teachers  of  the 
world.  We  must  be  as  interpreters,  as  men  and  women  who,  with 
full  knowledge  and  authority,  fit  the  knowledge  of  the  world  into  the 
great  scheme  of  salvation. 

The  Lord  said  to  the  Church  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  the  early  days  of  the  Church : 

"Again  I  say,  hearken,  ye  elders  of  my  church,  whom  I  have  appointed : 
Ye  are  not  sent  forth  to  be,  taught,  but  to  teach  the  children  of  men  the  things 
which  I  have  put  into  your  hands  by  the  power  of  my  Spirit. 

"And  ye  are  to  be  taught  from  on  high.  Sanctify  yourselves  and  ye  shall 
be  endowed  with  power,  that  ye  may  give  even  as  I  have  spoken." 

This  is  a  wonderful  message  to  all  Latter-day  Saints,  to  the 
Elders  of  Israel,  who  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  are  not 
here  to  be  taught ;  we  are  here  to  teach.  Whatever  offering  of  good  the 
world  may  make  to  us,  we  must  use  in  declaring  faith  and  repentance 
and  the  other  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  the  consummation  of  the 
purposes  of  the  Lord.  We  are  not  to  be  taught  by  the  world.  We 
are  the  teachers  of  the  world. 

At  the  head  of  this  Church  stands  a  living  prophet,  one  who  speaks 
with  authority.  He  is  the  mouth-piece  of  God  to  this  generation.  He 
is  a  man,  it  is  true,  as  every  prophet  who  has  spoken,  but  a  man  who 
possesses  the  authority  of  the  prophetic  power,  and  who  has  the  right, 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


61 


in  this  day,  to  interpret  the  things  of  humanity  for  the  good  of  the 
cause  of  the  Lord. 

We  have  the  authority  of  the  priesthood.  We  are  teachers  to  all 
the  world.  As  we  magnify  our  commission  and  rise  to  the  full  possi- 
bilities of  world  teachers,  we  shall  be  blessed  and  made  powerful.  Joy 
will  fill  our  hearts ;  power  will  come  to  our  hands,  and  the  things  that 
need  to  be  done  we  shall  be  able  to  do. 

So  run  my  thoughts  as  I  consider  the  work  that  has  been  done 
in  European  lands  during  the  last  few  years.  I  am  happy  that  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  laboring  in  those  lands.  I  am  grateful  to  President 
Grant  and  his  associates  for  that  great  privilege. 

THE  SEARCH  FOE  ETERNAL  TRUTH 

Men  seek  a  religion  that  may  be  used  in  daily  life,  but  they  want 
that  practical  feligion  tinged,  suffused,  mingled  and  mixed  with 
eternal  truth.  They  want  everything  in  terms  of  the  truth  which  has 
accumulated  throughout  the  ages,  and  the  truth  which  God  has  in  his 
keeping  to  give  to  his  children  in  the  future. 

The  purpose  of  man's  life  is  happiness  and  joy.  "Men  are  that 
they  might  have  joy."  A  simple  purpose,  but  difficult  to  attain,  so  the 
history  of  the  world  has  shown.  Yet,  if  we  take  eternal  truth  as  the 
woof  of  the  pattern,  and  human  experience  as  the  warp,  just  as  we 
make  a  pattern  of  linen  or  of  cotton,  making  truth  go  this  way, 
and  human  experience  the  other  way,  then  we  shall  weave  into  it  that 
thing  which  we  call  human  happiness,  a  joyful  life— the  desire  of  man 
since  the  world  began. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  to  bless  each  one 
of  us  within  his  own  home,  in  his  own  place  of  residence,  within  his  own 
field  of  labor,  that  we  may  rise  to  the  authority,  understanding  and 
sacrifice  that  should  be  practiced  by  the  people  of  this  Church.  May 
we  all  be  messengers  of  joy  to  the  people  of  the  world,  to  assist  in  their 
redemption,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

'  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  LORD 

In  what  I  am  about  to  say,  I  hope  I  shah  have  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  It  is  all-important  that  we  should  possess  that  Spirit,  whether 
we  preach  or  sing  or  pray.  Prayers  unprompted  by  it  do  not  ascend  to 
Heaven;  sermons  uninspired  by  it  fail  to  touch  the  heart  of  the 
hearer;  and  the  songs  that  are  sung  in  our  worshiping  assemblies,  if 
not  in  tune  with  it,  are  but  discords  in  the  ear  of  Deity. 

GOD'S  GREATEST  GIFT 

The  Savior,  when  instructing  his  disciples  regarding  the  Sacra- 
ment of  the  Lord's  Supper,  told  them  to  partake  of  it  in  remembrance 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  him,  and  he  promised  that  if  they  remembered  him  they  should  have 
his  Spirit  to  be  with  them. 

Why  did  he  not  promise  them  gold  and  silver,  houses  and  lands,  and 
all  the  other  "good  things  of  this  world?"  These  were  his  to  give; 
for  "the  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fulness  thereof,"  and  he  gives 
it  to  whomsoever  he  will.  But  he  had  something  better  to  bestow  than 
that  which  perishes  with  the  using,  and  he  wanted  his  dispicles,  his 
choice  friends,  to  have  it.  So  he  promised  them  the  Holy  Spirit — the 
power  to  lay  hold  upon  eternal  life,  his  greatest  and  most  precious  gift. 

A  SPIRITUAL  FEAST 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  the  food  of  our  spirits.  Without  it 
they  would  starve.  In  the  Eucharist,  as  it  is  called,  we  partake  of 
Christ ;  but  it  is  a  spiritual,  not  a  temporal,  partaking.  The  bread  and 
water,  or  bread  and  wine,  used  in  that  ordinance,  are  not,  as  some 
suppose,  the .  transubstantiated  body  and  blood  of  our  crucified  Lord. 
They  are  but  emblems,  symbolizing  his  sacrificial  atonement.  "Eat, 
this  is  my  body;  drink,  this  is  my  blood"- — the  alleged  words  of  the 
Savior  when  instituting  the  Sacrament  among  his  Jewish  disciples,  are 
to  be  interpreted,  not  literally,  but  figuratively.  If  not  a  mistranslation, 
they  are  certainly  a  misinterpretation. 

THE  SOURCE  OF  LIFE  AND  LIGHT 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  the  life  and  light  of  the  world.  It  is 
the  fountain  of  revelation,  manifesting  eternal  truth  and  making  known 
to  man  the  mind  and  will  of  his  Maker. 

"Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of 
man,  the  things  which  .God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him." 

So  says  Paul  the  Apostle,  and  he  adds: 

"But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit :  for  the  Spirit  searcheth 
all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God.  For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of 
a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which  is  in  him?  Even  so,  the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God."  (I  Cor.  2:9-11.) 

And  that  Spirit  is  given  to  every  member  of  the  Church  of  Christ, 
so  that  he  or  she  can  comprehend  divine  purposes  and  be  led  and  guided 
into  all  truth.  The  eye  that  sees  not,  the  ear  that  hears  not,  the  heart 
into  which  the  things  of  God  have  not  entered,  are  the  eye  and  ear  and 
heart  of  "the  natural  man,"  who  "is  an  enemy  to  God,"  as  the  same 
Apostle  declares.  Those  to  whom  the  Spirit  has  revealed  the  Truth 
stand  upon  another  plane  entirely. 

LETTER  AND  SPIRIT 

The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  interprets  the  Word  of  the  Lord,  and  those 
who  take  that  Spirit  f  or  their  guide  cannot  be  deceived  so  long  as  they 
heed  its  promptings.  If  they  do  not  heed,  but  allow  their  own  selfish 
desires  to  influence  them ;  or  if  they  take  the  dead  letter  for  their  guide, 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


63 


and  ignore  the  living  spirit,  they  are  liable  to  be  led  astray.    "For  the 
letter  killeth  but  the  spirit  giveth  life."    (2  Cor.  3 :6.) 

The  good  old  Bible,  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  accept  as  "the 
word  of  God  as  far  as  it  has  been  translated  correctly,"  contains  many 
passages  which,  if  only  the  letter  be  relied  upon  and  the  spirit  ignored, 
are  bound  to  be  of  a  misleading  character. 

THE  WORD  MADE  FLESH 

One  instance  has  been  cited,  that  pertaining  to  the  Eucharist. 
Here  is  another.  In  the  first  chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to  St. 
'John,  its  author  is  made  to  say :  "No  iman  hath  seen  God  at  any  time" 
(1  :18),  a  statement  which,  if  taken  literally,  not  only  puts  the  Beloved 
Disciple  in  the  attitude  of  disputing  Moses  and  the  prophets,  but  actually 
makes  him  contradict  himself.  For  the  very  same  chapter  in  which  that 
surprising  statement  is  found,  opens  with  this  declaration:  "In  the 
beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the  Word 
was  God.  *  *  *  And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us, 
(and  we  beheld  his  glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the 
Father),  full  of  grace  and  truth."  (1 :14.)  Jesus  Christ  was  God  in 
the  flesh.  "For  in  him  dwelleth  all  the  fulness  of  the  Godhead  bodily." 
(Col.  2 :9. )    And  He  was  seen  by  multitudes  of  men. 

But  long  before  the  divine  Word  was  "made  flesh,"  men  had 
seen  God,  and  none  knew  it  better  than  John.  Adam  had  seen  him, 
Enoch  had  walked  with  him,  Abraham  had  conversed  with  him. 
Moses  and  Aaron,  with  Nadab  and  Abihu  and  seventy  of  the  elders  of 
Israel,  "went  up  into  the  mountain  and  saw  the  God  of  Israel."  So 
says  the  Bible.  But  all  this  would  have  to  be  blotted  out  if  the  saying 
were  literally  true,  that  "no  man  hath  seen  God  at  any  time."  There 
could  be  no  surer  way  of  tearing  out  the  foundations  of  the  Christian 
religion  and  destroying  all  our  hopes  of  salvation,  than  to  establish  as  a 
fact  this  fallacy. 

In  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  (Book  of  Moses  1:11)  that  prophet 
and  seer,  having  seen  God,  tells  how  he  saw  him  in  these  words : 
"Now  mine  own  eyes  have  beheld  God ;  but  not  my  natural,  but  my 
spiritual  eyes,  for  my  natural  eyes  could  not  have  beheld ;  for  I  should 
have  withered  and  died  in  his  presence ;  but  his  glory  was  upon  me ;  and 
I  beheld  his  face ;  for  I  was  transfigured  before  him." 

john's  true  meaning 

What  John  meant  to  say — and  probably  did  say — was  this:  No 
man  with  his  natural  eyes  hath  seen  God  at  any  time.  Or,  as  Joseph 
Smith  puts  it :  "No  man  has  seen  God  at  any  time,  except  quickened 
by  the  Spirit  of  God" — which  means  precisely  the  same  thing.  (Doc.  - 
and  Cov.  67:11.)  That  John  was  mistranslated,  or  misinterpreted,  is 
evident. 

We  all  have  spiritual  eyes — the  eyes  of  our  spirits.  By  means  of 
them  we  "walked  by  sight"  and  "kept  the  first  estate" — our  pre-existent 
spirit  life;  thus  earning  the  right  to  a  second  estate — this  mortal  life, 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


where  we  "walk  by  faith,"  with  our  spirit  sight  temporarily  obscured. 
But  when  a  seer  is  needed,  "a  choice  seer,"  God  sends  one  into  the 
world ;  puts  his  power  upon  him,  and  thus  enables  him  to  use  his  spirit 
eyes  and  "see  out  of  obscurity,"  to  behold  (God  if  need  be,  and  to 
comprehend  the  things  of  God  in  the  only  way  that  they  can  be  com- 
prehended. Such  a  seer  was  Moses,  and  such  a  seer  was  Joseph  Smith. 
They  both  saw  God. 

SPIRITUAL  THINGS  SPIRITUALLY  DISCERNED 

It  is  not  man's  native  intelligence  nor  his  scholastic  culture,  that 
enables  him  to  understand  spiritual  things.  They  are  spiritually  dis- 
cerned, and  the  Spirit  that  discerns  them  can  be  had  only  in  one  way — ■ 
God's  way,  not  man's.  Hence,  after  faith,  repentance  and  water 
baptism,  comes  spirit  baptism,  whereby  the  Holy  Ghost  is  given  to 
those  who  become  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ. 

The  things  of  God  should  be  surveyed  by  the  light  of  the  Spirit  of 
God,  not  by  the  flickering  candle  of  human  wisdom.  In  our  attitude 
toward  divine  revelations,  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  we 
should  never  take  a  shallow,  material  dollar-and-cent  view,  but  always 
the  higher,  broader,  deeper,  spiritual  view. 

A  CASE  IN  POINT 

Many  years  ago,  when  I  was  a  Ward  Bishop,  I  was  sitting  with 
my  counselors  one  evening  for  the  settlement  of  tithing.  A  brother 
who  was  a  member  of  the  Ward  came  in,  tossed  a  roll  of  bills  upon  the 
table,  and  when  asked  the  usual  question,  "Is  this  a  full  tithing?"- — 
a  question  necessary  at  such  times,  in  order  that  the  reports  may  be  full 
and  accurate — he  answered,  "No  it  is  not;  but  you  may  be  thankful 
to  get  that  much." 

"Thankful,"  I  echoed,  "What  makes  you. think  I  ought  to  be 
thankful  for  it?  You  are  not  paying  it  to  me.  I  am  only  an  agent 
to  receive  and  pass  it  on  to  the  higher  authorities.  I  am  glad,  of 
course,  to  know  that  you  pay  your  tithing  even  in  part;  but  I  do  not 
see  why  I  should  thank  you  for  it.  I  pay  my  tithing  in  full,  but  nobody 
thanks  me,  nor  do  I  want  any  thanks  for  it.   I  esteem  it  a  privilege." 

WHEN  THANKS  ARE  OUT  OF  PLACE 

Now,  I  believe  in  commendation  and  encouragement.  I  love  to 
hear  kind  and  generous  expressions  of  appreciation  for  any  good  thing 
well  done  by  anybody.  But  I  do  not  believe  in  thanking  people  for 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  nor  for  rendering  service  to  him 
in  any  capacity.  We  do  not  thank  them  for  coming  into  the  Church. 
We  rejoice  over  them,  but  a  vote  of  thanks  in  such  a  case  would  be 
ridiculous.  And  it  is  just  so  with  other  things.  To  hold  office  in  the 
Church  of  Christ  is  a  great  honor — none  greater.  A  vote  of  thanks 
could  add  nothing  to  it,  and  would  be  entirely  out  of  place. 

We  do  not  confer  a  favor  upon  the  Almighty  by  obeying  his 
laws,  by  receiving  his  blessings ;  though  we  please  him,  no  doubt,  by  so 
doing.    And  when  we  stand  before  him  at  the  last  day,  having  "come 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


65 


up  through  great  tribulation"  and  made  our  calling  and  election  sure, 
I  think  I  can  hear  Him  say:  "Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant, 
or  good  and  faithful  handmaid — enter  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord."  But 
I  cannot  by  any  stretch  of  imagination,  conceive  Him  as  saying: 
"Thank  you,  my  child,  for  coming  to  Heaven!" 


Now,  as  to  the  Law  of  Tithing.  What  we  render  in  obedience  to 
that  divine  law,  is  not  ours ;  it  belongs  to  the  Lord.  We  may  consider 
it  ours,  if  we  will,  up  to  the  point  of  dropping  it  into  his  treasury; 
but  right  there  even  our  apparent  ownership  ends.  And  it  is  unseemly 
in  anyone  to  consider  it  his  or  hers,  or  to  complain  of  the  use  made  of 
it  by  the  Lord's  servants,  those  appointed  by  him  to  receive  and 
disburse  it  according  to  his  will  as  made  known  to  them. 

Moreover — and  this  is  the  great  desideratum — the  main  fact  to 
which  I  wish  to  call  attention.  You  know  it  as  well  as  I  do,  but  we 
all  need  reminding.  When  we  obey  the  Law  of  Tithing  we  do  it  not 
to  please  men,  but  to  honor  God,  and  we  draw  from  Him,  in  return,  a 
spiritual  dividend  far  more  precious  and  of  much  greater  consequence 
than  the  dollars  and  cents  or  other  means  that  we  part  with  in  rendering 
unto  the  Lord  his  own. 


The  Law  of  Tithing  is  sometimes  referred  to  as  the  revenue  law 
of  the  Church — and  such  it  is;  for  it  provides  means  to  carry  on  the 
Church's  work  in  some  of  its  most  important  phases.  But  in  taking 
that  view,  let  us  not  lose  sight  of  a  higher  consideration.  The  Law  of 
Tithing  was  given  to  supersede,  for  the  time  being,  a  greater  law 
known  as  the  Law  of  Consecration,  the  object  of  which  was  and  is 
to  sanctify  the  Lord's  people  and  "prepare  them  for  a  place  in  the 
celestial  world."  To  that  end  it  was  designed  to  do  away  with  selfish- 
ness, greed,  pride,  envy,  poverty,  and  all  the  ills  that  spring  from  such 
conditions.  For  none  of  these  things  can  be  admitted  into  the  kingdom 
of  heaven.  It  was  to  institute  an  order  of  equality  and  consequent 
unity,  in  which  every  man,  employed  at  that  for  which  he  was  best 
fitted,  would  be  "seeking  the  interest  of  his  neighbor  and  doing  all 
things  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God."  It  is  an  ancient  law. 
It  was  practised  By  Enoch  and  his  people,  and  later  by  the  Apostles  and 
their  proselytes  at  Jerusalem,  and  by  the  followers  of  Christ,  both 
Nephites  and  Lamanites,  upon  this  chosen  land.  A  brave  attempt  to 
practise  it  was  made  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  soon  after  this  Church 


rise  to  the  occasion.  Selfishness  within,  and  persecution  without, 
prevented  a  perfect  achievement.  So  the  Lord  withdrew  the  Law  of 
Consecration  and  gave  to  his  people  a  lesser  law,  one  easier  to  live, 
but  pointing  forward,  like  the  other,  to  something  grand  and  glorious 
in  the  future.  That  lesser  law,  the  Law  of  Tithing,  is  as  a  schoolmaster, 
a  disciplinary  agent,  to  bring  the  Saints  eventually  up  to  the  practise 
of  the  higher  law,  and  meanwhile  to  keep  their  hearts  open  for  its  re- 


A  SPIRITUAL  DIVIDEND 


THE  LAW   OF  CONSECRATION 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ception  when  it  returns.  Those  who  obey  the  Law  of  Tithing 
will  be  prepared  to  (live  the  Law  of  Consecration.  Those  who 
do  not  obey  it  will  not  be  prepared.  That  is  the  whole  thing  in 
a  nut  shell.  We  are  tithed  that  the  iChurch  may  have  means 
to  build  and  maintain  temples  and  tabernacles,  to  found  and  sustain 
missions  and  schools,  and  otherwise  carry  on  its  great  work  throughout 
the  world.  But  that  is  not  all.  The  spiritual  dividend  that  we  draw 
from  heaven  as  the  reward  of  our  obedience,  is  the  principal  purpose 
for  which  the  Law  of  Tithing  was  instituted.  All*  the  rest  is'incidental 
or  secondary. 

WHY  WE  FAST 

The  same  argument  applies  to  fasting.  We  are  not  required  to 
fast  merely  to  provide  the  bishop  with  means  whereby  to  feed  or 
otherwise  minister  to  the  poor.  That  is  not  the  main  object.  We  fast, 
primarily,  for  the  purity  of  heart,  the  clearness  of  mind,  the  spiritual 
strength  and  uplift  that  comes  from  the  observance  of  this  sacred 
requirement.  We  are  benefited  physically,  mentally  and  morally,  by 
temporarily  abstaining  from  bodily  food,  and  thereby  securing  the 
spiritual  food  that  more  than  takes  its  place.  And,  as  an  indirect 
result  of  our  act  of  self-denial,  the  bishop,  by  means  of  the  fast  offerings 
(which  should  equal  the  cost  of  the  food  ordinarily  used  during  the 
fasting  period)  is  enabled  to  care  for  the  poor  that  we  "have  always 
with  us,"  and  always  shall  have  until  God's  higher  law  is  practised  by 
his  people  and  there  shall  be  "no  poor  among  them." 

BODY  AND  SPIRIT 

The  body  as  well  as  the  spirit  is  essential.  The  two  combined, 
"inseparably  connected"  by  the  resurrection,  constitute  the  immortal 
soul ;  and  it  is  the  soul  that  goes  on  to  perfection — the  Gospel's  para- 
mount aim  from  the  beginning.  But  the  spiritual  is  above  the  temporal, 
the  substance  greater  than  the  shadow  that  follows  it ;  and  happy  is  the 
man  who  recognizes  this  truth  and  honors  the  divine  injunction :  "Seek 
ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness,  and  all  these  things 
(food,  drink,  clothing,  etc.)  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

THE  SICK   WORLD'S  PANACEA 

What  do  you  suppose  is  the  matter  with  this  sick  world  at  the 
present  time?  And  what  is  the  panacea  that  will  restore  it  to  perfect 
health?  The  matter  is,  that  it  has  turned  away  from  God  and  exalted 
the  material  over  the  spiritual.  Like  the  dog  in  the  fable,  crossing  the 
brook  with  a  piece  of  meat  in  his  mouth,  and  losing  it  in  an  attempt  to 
possess  what  looked  like  another  piece  of  meat  in  the  mouth  of  another 
dog,  but  which  was  only  a  vain  reflection  of  himself  in  the  water — 
even  so  this  selfish,  greedy,  money-loving  world  has  grasped  at  the 
shadow  and  lost  the  substance.  As  a  result  the  Ship  of  Human  Pro- 
gress is  lopsided  and  in  danger  of  going  on  the  rocks.  The  cargo, 
unevenly  bestowed,  has  unbalanced  the  vessel,  and  the  pilot  has  been 
thrown  overboard. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  67 

Right  the  ship,  ye  would-be  arbiters  of  human  destiny !  Right 
the  ship!  Put  the  temporal  under  hatches,  and  place  the  spiritual  at 
the  helm,  where  it  belongs ;  and  the  danger  will  disappear.  That  is 
the  panacea,  and  there  will  be  no  relief — no  permanent  relief  from  the 
evils  that  afflict  and  threaten  this  world,  until  that  sovereign  remedy 
is  applied;  until  proud,  self-sufficient  man,  acknowledging  his  own 
weakness  and  his  own  folly,  turns  to  (the  Source  of  all  power  and  all 
wisdom,  in  response  to  the  sweet  invitation  of  the  Savior:  "Come 
unto  Me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden !  and  I  will  give  you 
rest."  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  wish  to  read  for  the  benefit  of  our  distinguished  guest,  Dr. 
Barnard,  the  following :  i  i 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of 
repentance,  faith  in  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old, 
the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized. 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when 
eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

"And.  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it 
holy. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  also  shall  remember  their  labors,  inasmuch  as 
they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness;  for  the  idler  shall  be  had  in 
remembrance  before  the  Lord. 

"Now,  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  for  there 
are  idlers  among  them." 

We  very  much  appreciate  having  our  eminent  visitor  here,  and 
would  have  been  happy  had  he  seen  fit  to  make  further  remarks. 

As  a  closing  number,  the  iChoir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Heavens  Are 
Telling."  i 

After  the  benediction,  which  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Walter  A. 
Jensen  of  the  Lost  River  Stake,  Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
2  o'clock  p.  m. 

The  attendance  at  this  meeting  was  similar  in  number  to  that  at 
the'mormng  meeting. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  presided,  in  calling  the  meeting 
to  order  announced  that:  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and.  the  congregation 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


would  sing  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Communed  With 
Jehovah." 

After  the  singing,  Elder  'Henry  W.  Henderson,  President  of  the 
Pocatello  Stake,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  then  rendered  the  anthem,  "Send  Ye  Swift  Messengers." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  believe  that  I  realize  as  much  as  I  ever  did  the  responsibility  which 
is  upon  me  in  standing  here  to  address  this  assembly.  It  is  a  great 
honor  to  have  this  privilege.  It  is  also  a  great  responsibility,  for  I 
realize  that  those  who  occupy  this  position  at  a  General  Conference  of 
the  Church  should  have  something  to  say  that  will  be  edifying,  strength- 
ening and  encouraging,  that  will  build  up  the  members  of  the  Church 
in  their  faith. 

I  pray  that  I  may,  have  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and 
your  faith  and  prayers,  for  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  here. 

AN  OPPORTUNITY  FOR  ALL 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  admonition,  the  testimony,  and  the  presenta- 
tion of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  as  they  have  been  declared  by  our 
brethren  who  have  spoken.  In  my  heart  I  feel  thankful  that  I  have 
the  opportunity  of  living  in  this  day,  when  the  Gospel  in  its  fulness, 
its  simplicity  and  jts  power,  is  on  the  earth.  Today  all  men  have  the 
opportunity  of  receiving  the  truth,  for  the  Gospel  is  being  proclaimed 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  the  privilege  is  granted  to  those 
who  repent  and  accept  the  Gospel  of  receiving  the  remission  of  their 
sins,  through  the  ordirfance  of  baptism,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  those  who  have  the  authority  of 
the  holy  priesthood.  The  Lord  has  made  the  promise  to  all  who  will 
repent  and  remain  faithful,  exercising  a  spirit  of  humility  and  diligence, 
that  they  will  be  entitled  to  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  Tthis 
Spirit  will  lead  them  and  direct  them  throughout  their  lives. 

TO  AVOID  DECEPTION 

We  are  living,  as  it  has  already  been  stated,  in  a  day  of  trouble,  of 
tribulation,  when  men's  hearts  are  failing  them.  The  Lord  pointed 
out  this  day  while  in  his  ministry,  and  admonished  by  prophecy  those 
living  now  to  watch  and  pray,  that  they  might  not  be  led  astray,  that 
they  might  not  be  found  unprepared,  should  they  be  so  fortunate  as  to 
be  here  at  the  great  day  of  his  coming. 

Much  has  been  said  by  way  of  warning  and  for  the  guidance  of  this 
people  by  the  previous  speakers,  so  that  we  may  be  prepared  to  discern 
between  truth  and  falsehood,  and  that  we  may  detect  those  who  speak 
falsely  and  do  not  love  the  truth.  I  would  like  to  present  another 
phase  of  this  matter,  because  I  feel  that  it  is  timely.    Several  times 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  69 

within  the  past  three  months  I  have  been  approached  by  individuals 
and  have  received  communications  through  the  mails,  making  inquiry- 
concerning  a  certain  purported  revelation  said  to  have  been  given  many 
years  ago  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  in  which  he  saw  the  destruc- 
tion of  many  great  cities  and  many  countries  of  the  world  and  other 
very  unusual  things.  Inquiry  has  also  been  made  regarding  a  pur- 
ported vision  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  relation  to  the 
same  things,  and  which  has  been  in  circulation  for  many  years.  It  is 
evident  that  these  things  are  again  being  circulated  and  many  of  the 
people  are  becoming  agitated  over  them  wondering  if  they  are  true  or 
not,  and  some  of  the  people  have  been  deceived. 

BRANDED  AS  FALSE  BY  PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

At  the  October  Conference  of  the  Church  in  the  year  1918,  which 
was  the  last  General  Conference  attended  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 
I  made  some  remarks  in  relation  to  these  two  so-called  visions  and 
pointed  out  the  fact  that  they  were  not  true.  At  the  close  of  my 
remarks  President  Smith  arose  and  also  spoke  of  them.  Let  me  say 
that  this  communication  that  has  come  into  my  hands  recently,  and 
about  which  I  have  been  asked  for  advice,  was  being  circulated  very 
extensively  at  that  time.  It  is  a  purported  revelation  given  to  Joseph 
F.  Smith  many  years  ago. 

As  I  have  said,  at  the  close  of  my  remarks  at  that  General  Con- 
ference of  the  Church,  President  Smith  arose  and  said : 

"Again  I  feel  that  it  is  an  opportunity  for  me  to  say  a  few  words.  This 
wonderful,  mysterious  revelation,  that  I  have  been  said  to  have  received  a  great 
many  years  ago,  was  given  in  French,  and  I  never  knew  but  two  or  three  words 
in  French  in  my  life.  Consequently  I  could  not  have  been  the  originator  of  that 
revelation.  I  want  you  to  understand  that  I  have  denied  it,  I  suppose  a  hundred 
times,  when  people  have  inquired  about  it.  It  was  gotten  up  by  some  mysterious 
person  who  undertook  to  create  a  sensation,  and  laid  the  responsibility  upon 
me.  I  am  not  guilty.  When  the  Lord  reveals  something  to  me  I  will  consider 
the  matter  with  my  brethren.  When  it  becomes  proper  I  will  let  it  be  known 
to  the1  people,  and  not  otherwise. 

"The  ridiculous  story  about  the  red  horse,  and  the  black  horse,  and  the  white 
horse,  and  a  lot  of  trash,  that  has  been  circulated  and  sent  around  as  a  great 
revelation  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  is  a  matter  that  was  gotten  up, 
I  understand,  some  ten  years  after  the  death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  by 
two  of  our  brethren,  who  put  together  some  broken  sentences  from  the-Prophet 
that  they  may  have  heard  him  utter  from  time  to  time,  and  formulated  this 
so-called  revelation  out  of  it;  and  it  was  never  spoken  by  the  Prophet  in  the 
manner  in  which  they  have  put  it  forth.  It  is  simply  false,  that  is  all  there  is  to  it." 

Now,  I  think  we  are,  fortunate  in  having  President  Smith's  own 
expression  in  regard  to  these  purported  revelations.  It  seems  strange  to 
me  that  now,  some  twelve  years  later,  we  still  find  them  in  circulation. 
But  the  thing  that  astonishes  me  more  is  the  fact  that  members  of  the 
Church  seem  to  be  bewildered  and  in  wonderment  whether  or  not 
these  purported  revelations  were  indeed  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  to  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

FALSE  SPIRITS  IN  THE  EARTH 

In  a  revelation  given  to  the  Church  in  May,  1831,  when  matters 
of  a  similar  kind  were  being  circulated  among  the  people,  the  Lord  said : 

"Hearken,  0  ye  elders  of  my  Church,  and  give  ear  to  the  voice  of  the  living 
God;  and  attend  to  the  words  of  wisdom  which  shall  be  given  unto  you, 
according  as  ye  have  asked  and  are  agreed  as  touching  the  Church,  and  the 
spirits  which  have  gone  abroad  in  the  earth. 

"Behold,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  there  are  many  spirits  which  are  false 
spirits,  which  have  gone  forth  in  the  earth,  deceiving  the  world. 

"And  also  Satan  hath  sought  to  deceive  you,  that  he  might  overthrow  you." 

Then  the  revelation  goes  on  further  to  give  instructions  in  regard 
to  the  receiving  of  revelations,  and  the  duty  of  members  of  the  Church 
in  regard  to  matters  of  this  kind. 

A  KEY  FOR  OUR  GUIDANCE 

I  would  like  to  say,  for  the  benefit  of  the  members  of  the  Church, 
that  we  have  a  key  given  us  by  revelation,  by  which  false  spirits  may 
be  known,  by  which  false  revelation  may  be  known.  There  is  only 
one  man  in  this  Church,  at  a  time,  who  has  the  right  to  receive  revelation 
for  the  Church.  The  Lord  has  said  that  his  house  is  a  house  of  order, 
not  a  house  of  confusion,  and  therefore  one  is  appointed  to  speak. 
One  has  the  right  to  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord  and  give  it  to  the 
Church.  We  all  have  the  right  to  receive  revelation  for  our  own 
guidance.  A  president  of  a  Stake  has  the  right  of  revelation  for  the 
guidance  of  his  Stake.  But  no  man  has  the  right  to  receive  revelation 
for  this  Church,  except  the  one  whom  the  Lord  has  called.  If  he 
receives  a  revelation  it  will  be  declared  without  question,  if  it  is  in- 
tended for  the  Church,  in  a  manner  by  which  we  may  iall  know  the) 
source  from  whence  it  comes.  And  when  we  find  people  secretly 
distributing  what  are  said  to  be  revelations,  or  visions,  or  manifesta- 
tions, that  have  not  come  from  nor  received  the  approval  of  the 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  we  may  put  it  down  that  such  things  are 
not  of  God. 

We  do  not  need  to  write  to  ask  questions  in  regard  to  these  things. 
We  do  not  need  to  question  them  for  a  moment,  because  the  Lord  is 
not  going  to  give  a  revelation  to  any  high  priest,  any  elder,  or  seventy, 
for  this  Church.  It  will  come  through  the  one  who  is  so  appointed. 
And  if  the  Lord  is  not  going  to  choose  those  who  have  standing  in 
the  quorums  of  the  priesthood,  you  may  be  certainly  assured  that  he  is 
not  going  to  choose  some  one  who  does  not  hold  the  priesthood  at  all. 
So  our  minds  may  be  at  rest  in  regard  to  matters  of  this  kind. 

BY  THE  SPIRIT  OF  TRUTH 

Furthermore,  in  this  same  revelation  to  which  I  have  made  refer- 
ence, the  Lord  also  says :  , 

"Therefore,  why  is  it  that  ye  cannot  understand  and  know,  that  he  that 
receiveth  the  word  by  the  Spirit  of  truth,  receiveth  it  as  it  is  preached  by  the 
Spirit  of  truth? 


I 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH        •  71 

"Wherefore,  he  that  preacheth  and  he  that  receiveth,  understand  one  another, 
and  both  are  edified  and  rejoice  together. 

"And  that  which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is  darkness. 

"That  which  is  of  God  is  light;  and  he  that  receiveth  light,  and  continueth 
in  God,  receiveth  more  light;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  and  brighter  until 
the  perfect  day."  '  ■ 

Now,  think  of  that.  If  we  will  follow  the  spirit  of  light,  the  spirit 
of  truth,  the  spirit  that  is  set  forth  in  the  revelations  of  the  ,Lord ;  if 
we  will,  through  the  spirit  cff  prayer  and  humility,  seek  for  the  guidance 
of  the  jHoly  Ghost,  the  Lord  will  increase  our  light  and  our  .under- 
standing ;  so  that  we  shall  have  the  spirit  of  discernment,  we  shall  under- 
stand the  truth,  we  shall  know  falsehood  when  we  see  it,  and  we  shall 
.  not  be  deceived,  j 

Who  is  it  that  is  deceived  in  this  Church?  Not  the. man  who 
has  been  faithful  in  the  discharge  pf  duty ;  not  the  man  who  has  made 
himself  acquainted  with  the  word  of  the  Lord ;  not  the  man  who  has 
practiced  the  commandments  given  in  these  revelations ;  but  the  man 
who  is  not  acquainted  with  the  truth,  the  man  who  is  in  spiritual 
darkness,  the  man  who  does  ^not  comprehend  and  understand  the 
principles  of  the  (Gospel.  Such  a  man  will  be  deceived,  and  when  these 
false  spirits  come  among  us  he  may  not  understand  br  be  able  to  dis- 
tinguish between  light  and  darkness. 

But  if  we  will  walk  in  the  light  of  the  revelations  of  the  Lord, 
if  we  will  hearken  to  the  counsels  that  are  given  by  those  who  stand 
in  the  councils  of  the  Church,  empowered  to  give  the  instructions,  we 
will  not  go  astray. 

"whoso  treasureth  up  ,my  word" 

In  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  Matthew,  as  the  Lord  revealed 
it  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  not  as  you  find  it  in  the  Bible,  but  as 
you  find  it  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  we  find  this  expression: 

"And  whoso  treasureth  up  my  word,  shall  not  be  deceived,  for  the  Son  of 
Man  shall  come,  and  he  shall  send  his  angels  before  him  with  the  great  sound 
of  a  trumpet,  and  they  shall  gather  together  the  remainder  of  his  elect  from 
the  four  winds,  from  one  end  of  heaven  to  the  other." 

I  repeat :  "And  whoso  treasureth  up  buy  word  shall  not  'be  deceived." 
Therefore  let  us  go  to  with  our  might  in  the  labor  of  this  Church,  and  ( 
in  the  study  and  understanding  of  the  (principles  of  the  'Gospel,  these 
principles  of  light,  and  as  we  study  them  the  Lord  will  reveal  to  us 
further  light,  until  we  shall  receive  the  fulness,  in  due  time,  of  the 
perfect  day,  and  we  shall  not  be  under  the  necessity  of  being  subject 
to  doubt  and  seeking  for  advice  when  confronted  by  matters  of  this 
kind,  because  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  itself  will  teach  us. 

The  day  is  coming,  so  Jeremiah  says,  when  it  will  not  be  necessary 
for  one  man  to  teach  his  neighbor,  saying,  "Know  the  Lord,"  for  they 
all  know  him,  from  the  greatest  to  the  least.  And  that  will  come  when 
we,  in  all  full  purpose  of  heart,  are  willing  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep 
his  commandments  and  hearken  to  the  counsels  that  come  to  us  from 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  who  preside ;  which  I  pray  we  will  do,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

THE  WORLD'S  GREAT  NEED 

The  greatest  need  of  the  world  today  is  religion.  The  greatest 
need  of  the  people  ,of  the  United  States  is  religion.  At  this  moment 
mankind  needs  most  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  heavens  have 
been  opened,  the  voice  of  the  Lord  has  been  heard,  the  angel  spoken  of 
has  flown  through  the  midst  of  heaven,  saying  with  a  loud  voice, 
"Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come." 

To  supply  this  vital  need,  the  Department  of  Education,  under 
the  direction  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  has  prepared  a  course 
in  religious  instruction  to  be  given  side  by  side  with  the  training 
of  the  public  schools. 

ASSIGNMENT  OF  WORK 

To  the  Primary  organization  has  been  assigned  the  task  of  giving 
this  religious  instruction  to  the  children  of  the  first  six  grades.  In 
the  junior  seminaries,  religious  education  is  given  to  the  children  of  the 
7th,  8th  and  9th  grades ;  in  the  seminary,  to  those  who  attend  high 
school ;  and  institutes  are  being  established  to  give  a  proper  appreciation 
of  religious  truth  to  our  sons  and  daughters  who  go  to  college. 

ATTITUDE  OF   COLLEGE  MEN 

The  indifference,  if  not  the  actual  antagonism,  toward  religion  on 
the  part  of  many  who  are  college-trained,  is  due  primarily  to  the  fact 
that  their  religious  education  has  been  neglected.  Their  religious  ideals 
and  motives  have  not  been  developed  along  with  the  growth  of  ideas 
and  ideals  in  science,  literature,  and  the  arts.  Our  aim,  therefore,  is 
to  produce  a  generation  of  college  men  and  women  who  will  understand, 
appreciate,  and  enjoy  Gospel  incentives,  motives,  and  ideals,  with  the 
same  interest,  enthusiasm,  and  devotion  that  they  develop  for  the  new 
ideas  they  acquire  in  science,  literature,  and  art. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  RELIGIOUS  THOUGHT 

To  any  who  regard  training  in  science,  language,  and  mathematics 
as  most  valuable,  I  put  these  questions :  Is  not  religion  more  weighty 
than  other  subjects?  Is  not  character  of  more  consequence  than  a 
knowledge  of  science?  Honesty  of  greater  moment  than  a  knowledge 
of  mathematics?  Dependability  more  important  than  a  knowledge  of 
languages  ? 

Give  your  children  all  the  training  you  can  in  these  other  subjects, 
but  see  to  it  that  along  with  their  school  instruction  they  are  given  this 
most  valuable  branch  of  education — a  study  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  a  study  of  the  life  and  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Savior.  For 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


73 


the  prime  purpose  of  this  line  of  Gospel  education,  this  training  in 
religion,  is  to  make  people  happier  and  better. 

FAITH  IS  THE  BASIS 

Let  me  make  it  clear  and  definite  that  religion  is  not  founded 
primarily  on  logic ;  religion  is  founded  on  faith.  Faith,  like  electricity, 
is  hard  to  define;  but,  like  electricity,  it  has  tremendous  power.  Faith 
is  that  satisfying  something  which  comes  into  humble  human  hearts 
as  a  result  of  prayerful  life  and  righteous  living. 

Affection,  like  faith,  is  not  based  on  the  logical  operations  of  the 
human  mind.  It  does  not  obey  the  dictates  of  the  will,  neither  is  it 
controlled  hy  the  rules  of  logic. 

HAPPINESS  THE  AIM 

We  are  endeavoring  to  teach  faith — faith  in  our  fellowmen,  faith 
in  God,  faith  in  a  life  beyond  ,the  grave. 

It  is  said  that  the  most  lonely,  lonesome,  and  unhappy  individual 
is  he  who  says  he  does  not  know — the  man  who  has  no  faith  in  God, 
no  faith  in  a  life  beyond.  We  are  aiming  so  to  bring  up  our  young 
folks  that  they  will  escape  the  unhappiness  of  unbelief.  And  while 
the  faith  of  which  I  speak  is  not  often  created  by  reason,  nevertheless 
reason  can  justify  this  faith,  and  can  ward  off  attacks  which  may  be 
made  upon  it.  In  the  language  of  the  scripture  (Heb.  11 :1),  "Faith 
is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things  not  seen." 

.    HONESTY  MEANS  PROGRESS 

Outstanding  among  the  elements  in  the  Gospel  plan  is  common, 
every-day  honesty.    "Wie  believe  in  being  honest." 

Men  who  do  not  keep  their  word,  who  fail  to  fulfil  their  contracts, 
or  who  can  scarcely  do  business  without  cheating,  are  men  who  obstruct 
the  progress  and  prosperity  of  the  country. 

Imagine  a  community  made  up  of  such  people.  However  gifted 
they  might  be  mentally,  they  could  not  prosper ;  one  man  could  not 
trust  another.  Nothing  could  be  bought  or  sold  without  the  closest 
inspection.  There  could  be  no  cooperation.  Everyone  would  have  to 
spend  a  great  deal  of  time  watching  his  dishonest  neighbors.  Honesty, 
therefore,  when  it  is  practised  by  an  entire  community,  is  a  great  labor- 
saving  device. 

Lincoln's  chief  trait,  sail  his  life  long,  was  honesty.  Pervasive 
honesty  was  the  outstanding  mark  of  his  personality.  From  the  begin- 
ning to  the  end  it  stayed  with  him.  "When  other  traits  seemed  to 
be  changing,  this  universal  honesty  w&s  always  there."  (Morse.) 

NOBILITY  OF  HONOR 

Our  nation  is  united  in  teaching  Boy  Scouts  the  value,  the  nobility, 
of  honesty  and  of  honor.  "On  my  honor  I  will  do  my  best  to  do  my 
duty  to  God  and  my  country."   This  is  their  chief  lesson. 

"I  .cannot  do  so  in  honor."  With  these  words — words  which  will 
be  remembered  forever — King  Albert  of  Belgium  refused  to  let  the 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


German  army  pass  through  his  country.  As  long  as  there  are  mothers' 
tongues  to  teach  their  children,  just  so  long  will  mothers  hold  up  with 
pride  and  commendation  the  honor,  the  honesty,  the  integrity,  of  the 
Belgian  people,  who,  against  Itremendous  odds,  "stood  to  their  guns  and 
maintained  their  honor,  intact  and  immortal."    (Van  Dyke.) 

Our  own  Karl  G.  Maeser  had  the  highest  regard  for  honor. 
Though  a  great  teacher  of  science  and  literature,  he  was  most  of  all 
an  instructor  in  the  Gospel,  a  builder  of  character.  He  used  to  say: 
"'Place  me  behind  prison  walls  ever  so  high,  ever  so  thick,  ever  so 
strong,  yet  in  some  way,  at  some  time,  I  may  escape ;  but  draw  a  chalk 
line  around  me  and  have  me  give  my  word  of  honor  not  to  cross  it, 
can  I  ever  escape  ?   No,  never !   I  die  (first !"  / 

WHY  AMERICA  HAS  PROSPERED 

Our  country  has  had  a  growth  and  prosperity  no  other  country  has 
ever  known.  These  unusual  blessings  have  come  because  of  honor, 
honesty,  dependability — qualities  which  religious  training  brought  into 
the  lives  of  the  people. 

While  many  of  our  countrymen  who  are  rich  ridicule  religion,  a 
wise  man  (Babson)  has  said  that  these  same  prosperous  Americans  are 
indebted  for  all  they  possess  to  the  family  prayers  once  held  daily  in 
the  homes  of  their  fathers. 

SOBRIETY  INDISPENSABLE 

Next  to  honesty,  one  of  the  most  important  elements  in  the  Gospel 
is  sobriety. 

"In  the  rudimentary  state  of  society,"  says  Carver,  "where  each  individual 
worked  and  acted  most  of  the  time  alone,  and  where,  therefore,  there  was  little 
interdependence,  drunkenness  was  not  so  vicious  as  it  has  now  become.  But  in 
our  interlocking  civilization,  no  personal  habit  or  vice,  except  lying,  so  unfits 
a  man  for  useful  service  as  does  drunkenness.  If  you  had  to  take  your  choice 
between  riding  behind  a  locomotive  engineer  addicted  to  drunkenness,  and 
addicted  to  any  other  vice,  there  is  not  much  doubt  as  to  which  you  would  choose. 

"Apply  a  similar  test  to  anyone  in  any  other  responsible  position,  and  you 
will  reach  the  conclusion  that  the  person  who  is  addicted  to  drink  is  about 
the  least  dependable,  and  the  least  desirable,  citizen  you  can  name.  There  are 
fewer  places  where  he  is  of  use  and  more  places  where  he  is  a  menace  than  is 
the  case  with  the  victims  of  almost  any  other  vice." 

THE  HIGH  VIRTUES 

Honor,  honesty,  dependability,  sobriety — these  rank  high  among 
the  virtues.  Living  in  accordance  with  them  has  brought  to  our  country 
a  growth,  a  prosperity,  unknown  to  other  nations. 

Before  taking  public  office  in  state  or  nation,  every  official  is 
required  solemnly  to  swear  that  he  will  support,  obey,  and  defend  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  and  the  Constitution  of  his  own  State. 

It  is  said  that  among  our  public  officials  there  are  some  who  hold 
their  hands  toward  high  heaven  and  take  this  sacred  oath  of  office  one 
day,  and  break  their  solemn  pledge  the  next.  The  story  of  Wash- 
ington and  the  cherry  tree  told  to  every  American  child,  the  honesty 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  75 

of  Abraham  Lincoln  told  to  every  American  youth,  the  OBoy  Scout 
oath,  the  honor  of  King  Albert  of  Belgium,  the  sterling  worth  and 
character  of  our  own  Dr.  Maeser — these  in  the  past  have  been  the 
standards  of  our  country.  Have  our  ideals  changed  ?  Have  we  given 
up  these  old-fashioned  virtues?  Do  some  public  officials  have  no 
regard  for  the  most  solemn  oath  that  public  men  can  take  ?  Are  there 
officials  who  regard  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  only  a 
scrap  of  paper,?  Can  this  nation — the  land  of  Washington,  Franklin, 
Lincoln,  Roosevelt,  Wilson — the  nation  founded  on  honor,  honesty, 
and  dependability — can  it  endure  if  this  undermining  of  its  very 
foundation  continues?  I  say  it  cannot.  Nothing  enduring  can  be 
built  upon  falsehood.  Without  honor,  without  honesty,  without  de- 
pendability, no  nation  can  stand. 

A  PLEDGE  TO  OUR  COUNTRY 

I  have  personally  made  a  solemn  public  pledge  not  to  participate 
in  any  function,  social  or  otherwise,  where  the  law  is  broken — I  refer 
particularly  to  the  prohibition  law ;  and  furthermore  I  am  working  on 
a  program  whose  purpose  is  to  seek  out  those  who  also  are  willing  to 
invite  good  citizens  to  come  to  the  support  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States. 

You  who  are  willing  to  cooperate  are  invited  to  get  signatures 
to  the  following  pledge : 

I  hereby  pledge  to  the  Republic  of  the  United  States  and  to  myself : 

1.  Not  to  participate  in  any  function,  social  or  otherwise,  where 
the  law  is  broken. 

2.  Not  knowingly  to  cast  my  vote  for  any  candidate  who  does  not 
live  in  accordance  with  the  law. 

WHAT  ONE  INDIVIDUAL  MAY  ACCOMPLISH 

The  influence  of  a  single  person  who  will  live  in  accordance  with 
the  law  and  who  will  work  to  get  others  to  do  likewise  is  effective  and 
far-reaching. 

A  few  examples : 

"Mr.  Chairman,  since  I  stand  with  Abraham  Lincoln  for  the  law,"  said 
one  committee  member,  "and,  further,  since  I  have  pledged  myself,  as  have 
President  and  Mrs.  Hoover,  not  to  participate  in  any  function  iwhere  the  law  is 
broken,  if  you  are  going  to  serve  liquor  on  this  occasion,  I  shall  ask  to  be 
excused  from  this  meeting." 

The  liquor  was  not  served. 

"But  just  a  minute,"  said  one  of  those  who  had  been  invited.  "I  do  not 
desire  to  create  a  scene  at  your  fine  ;dinner,  nor  do  1  i.wish  to  make  myself 
appear  ridiculous  or  non-appreciative;  therefore,  if  liquor  is  to  be  served,  I  shall 
ask  lyou  now  !to  excuse  me,  since  I  cannot  in  honor  participate  in  a  function 
where  the  law  is  broken." 

No  liquor  was  served. 

A  WHOLE  CONVENTION  RESPONDS 

At  a  convention  recently,  where  nearly  a  thousand  delegates  were 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


registered,  wine  was  served  in  unlimited  quantities.  Before  the  next 
convention,  one  member  wrote  the  following  to  the  officials  of  the 
organization:  "I  am  for  the  law.  I  appeal  to  you  to  recommend  to 
the  Society  that  at  our  next  meeting  we  pass  a  resolution  informing 
the  people  of  the  United  States  that  this  Society  stands  for  the  Constitu- 
tion and  the  laws  of-  our  country ;  and  that,  while  some  of  our  members 
may  not  like  the  Prohibition  law,  yet  while  it  remains  on  our  statute 
books  we  pledge  ourselves  to  live  in  accordance  with  its  provisions 
and  to  assist  the  President  and  other  officials  in  their  efforts  to  enforce 
it." 

No  liquor  was  in  evidence  at  the  next  convention. 

If  one  prominent  business  or  social  leader  who  breaks  the  law 
were  placed  behind  prison  bars,  this  one  act  would  create  for  the  law 
an  immediate  respect  so  strong  that  it  would  reform  a  whole  city. 

A  CALL  TO  PATRIOTS 

Thus,  "in  these  last  days,"  and  "from  the  top  of  the  mountains," 
as  a  representative  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
I  appeal  to  the  people  of  the  country  to  come  to  the  support  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States. 

And  in  accordance  with  the  motto  of  our  nation  may  we  in  God 
so  trust  that  "government  of  the  people,  by  the  people,  and  for  the 
people,  shall  not  perish  from  the  earth." 

At  the  request  of  President'  Grant,  the  Choir  and  congregation  arose 
and  sang  the  first  verse  of  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire 
is  Burning." 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  present  upon 
this  occasion.  I  don't  remember  having  ever  attended  a  Conference 
that  was  more  blessed  of  the  Lord.  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the 
testimonies  and  remarks  of  all  the  brethren,  and  with  all  the  songs  that 
have  been  sung.  The  Spirit  of 'the  Lord,  and  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel 
have  touched  my  heart  in  testimony  of  their  divinity. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  wonderful  privilege  of  associating  with 
men  who  the  Lord  has  chosen  to  stand  in  the  leadership  of  the 
Church  in  this  important  time  of  the  world. 

BLESSINGS  THROUGH  SACRIFICES  OF  OTHERS 

For  several  months  past,  about  the  most  important  meetings  of  a 
public  character  which  I  have  attended  have  been  funerals.  I  have 
attended  a  number  of  them  of  late,  due  to  the  fact  that  a  great  number 
of  my  relatives  have  recently  passed  away.  .  At  these  services,  of  course, 
the  addresses  and  the  remarks  of  the  brethren  have  been  largely 
tempered  with  the  spirit  and  teaching  relative  to  the  resurrection,  the 


ELDER   HYRUM   G.  SMITH 


77 


great  mission  of  life,  and  the  great  blessings  that  have  come  to  the 
human  family  through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  always  impressed  with  the  spirit  of  devotion  and  humility 
when  I  hear  my  brethren  and  my  friends  speak  in  remembrance  of  the 
great  experiences,  sometimes  called  sacrifices,  which  our  parents  and 
forefathers  endured,  that  we,  as  younger  members  of  the  Church 
might  enjoy  the  multiplicity  of  blessings  and  privileges  of  the  present 
time,  for  many  faithful  souls  gave  their,  lives  for  the  cause  of  this 
Gospel. 

Personally,  I  am  grateful  for  the  blessings  which  have  come  to  me, 
because  of  the  sacrifices  of  others.  I  feel  my  unworthiness  of  the 
great  blessings  that  have  come  to  me,  the  great  privileges  and  oppor- 
tunities, especially  the  responsibilities.  I  do  not  say  this  in  any  manner 
of  boasting,  but  I  wish  to  say  it  by  way  of  reporting  the  growth  of  the 
Church  as  seen  from  my  particular  viewpoint. 

HELPED  BY  PATRIARCHAL  BLESSINGS 

I  think  my  predecessor,  the  late  John  Smith,  holds  the  record  in 
point  of  time  for  any  officer  holding  one  position  in  the  Church.  He 
was  Presiding  Patriarch  for  over  fifty-six  years.  During  that  time 
he  was  instrumental  in  administering  to  members  of  the  Church  some- 
thing over  twenty-one  thousand  recorded  blessings.  During  the  last 
nineteen  years  nearly  twenty-one  thousand  recorded  blessings  stand  to 
my  credit  in  the  office. 

A  great  many  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  are  struggling  with  their 
responsibilities  in  life.  Many  times  they  have  come  to  the  office,  fasting, 
with  a  prayer  of  faith  and  a  keen  desire  for  help  to  guide  them  in 
handling  those  responsibilities.  And  in  their  patriarchal  blessings 
many  have  received  the  desired  consolation. 

ANSWERS  TO  PRAYERS 

I  am  grateful  for  the  faith  and  the  prayers  of  the  members  of 
the  Church.  I  believe  in  prayer.  I  know  that  the  Lord  hears  and 
answers  prayer.  I  have  heard  little  children  pray,  and  almost  im- 
mediately have  seen  the  answers  come.  I  have  seen  adults  and  older 
people  pray  with  faith,  and  have  seen  immediate  and  soul-satisfying 
results.  I  am  converted  to  the  devotion  and  the  practice  of  prayer. 
I  believe  in  it,  and  I  practice  it  myself.  I  teach  my  children  to  pray. 
They  pray  for  others  as  well  as  for  themselves.  My  children,  all  of 
them,  pray  for  the  President  of  this  Church,  and  for  his  associates,  for 
the  members  of  the  Church,  for  the  missionaries,  for  the  sick  and  for 
all  who  need  the  favors  of  the  Lord. 

Through  the  kindness  of  the  Lord,  a  great  many  testimonies  have 
come  to  us  in  our  home  relative  to  the  answering  of  our  prayers.  I 
will  not  take  your  time  to  tell  these  stories,  but  our  family  history  is 
replete  with  testimonies  that  are  soul-satisfying,  relative  to  the  answering 
of  our  prayers.   So  I  believe  in  prayer. 

I  thank  you  for  your  prayers,  my  brethren  and  sisters.    I  have 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


felt  the  benefit  myself.  I  am  very  grateful  to  you  personally  for  your 
faith  and  prayers.  , 

I  regret  very  much  that  I  am  physically  unable  at  the  present 
time,  and  have  been  for  some  time  past,  to  visit  with  the  people,  and 
to  carry  on  my  duties  as  I  would  like  to  do.  However,  I  feel  very 
grateful  that  my  strength  is  returning,  and  I  hope  to  be  able  soon  to 
discharge  my  duties  in  full. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
throughout  the  Stakes,  Wards,  and  Missions,  and  in  the  auxiliary 
organizations.  My  heart  is  filled  with  blessings  for  your  success,  for 
your  happiness,  for  your  peace  in  carrying  on  the  great  work. 

A  STRIKING  EXAMPLE 

I  realize  that  we  are  living  in  a  peculiar  time,  when  conditions  are 
not  just  as  we  would  like  to  have  them :  many  are  out  of  employment. 

A  very  striking  example  came  to  me  only  a  few  days  ago.  A 
convert  to  the  Church,  a  well  educated  man,  who  was  trained  for  the 
ministry  in  one  of  the  religious  organizations  of  the  land,  left  his  family 
at  home  in  Canada, .and  came  here  to  Salt  Lake  City,  where  he  received 
his  patriarchal  blessing.  After  searching  in  vain  for  employment  he 
decided  to  "hike"  back  home,  a  distance  of  two  thousand  miles,  which 
he  covered  in  eight  days,  he  reports.  He  found  his  patriarchal  blessing 
of  great  value  in  overcoming  his  despair.  He  acknowledged  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  in  his  blessings,  for  he  realized  that  he  had  been  spared  and 
blessed ;  and  that  he  and  the  Church  were  still  good  friends. 

This  example  is  only  one  of  thousands  who  manifest  faith  in  their 
blessings  and  who  acknowledge  the  Lord  as  the  Giver  of  them. 

FOR  COMFORT  AND  BENEFIT 

I  commend  to  you  the  faith  and  the  devotion  of  the  good  men 
who  are  authorized,  in  the  Church,  to  administer  the  ordinance  of 
patriarchal  blessings.  These  blessings  are  for  those  who  understand 
them  and  who  have  a  knowledge  of  their  use  and  value  in  the  Church. 
They  are  indeed  valuable  instruments  for  the  comfort  and  benefit  of 
faithful  members  of  the  Church. 

My  heart  is  filled  with  sympathy  and  a  desire  to  bless  the  entire 
membership  of  the  Church,  to  see  the  Lord's  work  prosper,  and  to 
see  faith  increase  in  the  hearts  of  our  fellow  members. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  magnify,  bless,  inspire,  protect,  preserve,  and 
spare  those  who  preside  over  the  Church  and  who  stand  as  its  leaders 
today. 

BLESSES  THE  PEOPLE 

In  the  name  of  the  Lord,  I  bless  you  all  with  peace  and  with  pros- 
perity, notwithstanding  the  uncertainty  of  things  at  the  present  time.  You 
will  go  to  your  homes,  and  plant,  cultivate,  and  reap,  but  not  in  vain,  for 
the  harvest  will  be  satisfying  and  satisfactory;  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  will  be  upon  your  lands,  and  upon  your  possessions,  and  upon 
your  faithful  labors.    Therefore,  be  honest  with  the  Lord  in  your 


ELDER  HYRUM   G.  SMITH 


79 


tithes  and  in  your  offerings ;  that  the  great  promises  concerning  this  land 
and  its  people  may  be  fulfilled. 

I  pray  God  to  grant  these  blessings,  that  they  may  be  upon  the 
Church,  its  leaders  and  its  members,  and  all  the  organizations  in  the 
Church,  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  the  Lord  and  his  work,  and  I  do  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

In  his  farewell  address  to  the  American  people  George  Washington 

said : 

"Of  all  the  dispositions  and  habits  which  lead  to  political  prosperity,  religion 
and  morality  are  indispensable  supports.  In  vain  would  that  man  claim  the 
tribute  of  patriotism  who  should  labor  to  subvert  these  great  pillars  of  human 
happiness,  these  firmest  props  of  the  duties  of  men  and  citizens.        _  ■ 

"Whatever  may  be  conceded  to  the  influence  of  refined  education  on  minds 
of  peculiar  structure,  reason  and  experience  both  forbid  us  to  expect  that 
national  morality  can  prevail  in  the  exclusion  of  religious  principle. 

"Let  us  with  caution  indulge  the  supposition  that  morality  can  be  main- 
tained without  religion." 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"Simon,  sou  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me?" 
"Lord,  thou  knowest  that  I  love  thee." 
"Feed  my  lambs." 

"Jesus  said  to  him  the  second  time :  "Simon,  son  of  Jonas,  lovest  thou  me  ? 
*    *   *   Feed  my  sheep." 

This  was  one  of  the  last  and  one  of  the  most  important  injunctions 
that  Jesus  gave  his  apostles,  following  the  resurrection.  The  Savior's 
charge  to  watch  over  the  flock  and  to  feed  the  lambs  is  as  applicable  at 
the  present  time  as  it  was  in  the  days  of  Peter.  The  Church  of  Christ 
must  particularly  accept  this  responsibility. 

During  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  before  you  I  desire  to  direct 
your  attention  to  the  work  that  the  Church  can  do  in  this  regard  and  at 
the  same  time  co-operate  in  the  great  national  movement  of  Child  Health 
and  Protection. 

THE  LOST  AND' FOUND 

In  the  fifteenth  chapter  of  St.  Luke  there  is  recorded  a  very  signifi- 
cant message  from  Christ,  relative  to  the  lost  and  found.  That  message 
is  embraced  in  three  remarkable  parables,  one  the  parable  of  the  lost 
sheep ;  another,  the  lost  coin ;  and  a  third,  the  prodigal  son. 

In  the  first  the  straying  one  seems  to  have  become  lost  through 
stupidly  wandering  away  for  the  necessary  things  of  'life.  Perhaps  the 
wandering  was  prompted  by  just  a  desire  to  seek  the  necessary  things 
of  existence. 

The  second,  however,  relates  to  a  different  kind  of  lost  one — -one 
that  seems  to  be  wholly  unconscious  of  having  wandered  away ;  and  the 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


third,  to  another  class,  one  who  deliberately  and  wilfully  becomes 
estranged  from-  God. 

I  am  not  sure  that  I  have  applied  these  parables  properly,  but 
certainly  there  are  just  such  classes  of  young  men  and  young  women 
who  wander  away  and  become  lost.  There  are  those  in  the  world  who 
become  so  absorbed  in  gaining  a  livelihood,  and  so  interested  in  the 
material  things  of  life,  that  they  lose  ;sight  entirely  of  the  religious 
ideals,  the  significance  of  which  President  Grant  has  just  called  to  our 
attention,  as  other  speakers  have  during  this  important  Conference. 

Of  the  second  class,  those  who  are  unconscious  of  being  in  the 
dark,  there  are  many  such — speaking  of  the  nation  at  large.  It  is  ad- 
mitted that  in  the  United  States  there  are  twenty-seven  million  children 
who,  though  nominally  Protestant,  are  not  receiving  any  religious  in- 
struction. There  are  eight  million  children,  if  I  remember  rightly,  less 
than  ten  years  of  age,  who  receive  absolutely  no  religious  instruction. 
I  think  we  may  consistently  place  this  large  group  in  the  second  class 
named, — little  children  growing  up  in  darkness,  unconscious  of  the 
light.  They  are  like  this  Easter  lily  before  it  blooms.  They  have  an 
existence  but  are  struggling  out  of  the  darkness  of  humanity.  They 
may  never  Hoom  into  the  sunlight  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  Now,  that  is  a 
tragedy. 

Of  the  third,  we  see  around  us  every  day  young  men  who  wilfully 
and  deliberately  choose  the  pathway  of  indulgence,  which  leads  them 
away  from  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  leads  them  away  from  the  testimony 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  a  great  mission,  the  greatest  in 
the  world,  to  reach  out  after  these  young  people,  to  extend  a  hand  to 
the  child,  following  Jesus'  injunction  to  Peter  to  bring  the  lambs  into 
Christ's  fold.    Indeed,  there  is  nothing  greater. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  SUCH  A  MISSION 

I  think  the  President  of  the  United  States  expressed  the  importance 
of  such  a  mission  most  impressively  when  he  said : 

"These  questions  of  child  health  and  protection  are  a  complicated  problem, 
requiring  much  learning  and  much  action,  and  we  need  have  great  concern  over 
this  matter.  Let  no  one  believe  that  these  are  questions  which  should  not  stir 
a  nation,  that  they  are  below  the  dignity  of  statesmen  or  government.  If  we 
could  have  but  one  generation  of  properly  born,  trained,  educated,  and  healthy 
children,  a  thousand  other  problems  of  government  would  vanish.  We  would 
assure  ourselves  of  healthier  minds  in  more  vigorous  bodies,  to  direct  the 
energies  of  our  nation  to  yet  greater  heights  of  achievement.  Moreover,  one 
good  community  nurse  will  save  a  dozen  future  policemen." 

TWO  PICTURES 

In  accordance  with  the  spirit  of  the  White  House  Conference  on 
Child  Health  and  Protection,  Elder  Fielding  K.  Smith,  a  local  artist, 
at  a  suggestion,  drew  two  pictures  which  I  have  in  my  office.  One  is  the 
picture  of  a  home  out  of  which  comes  a  young  man,  a  youth  just 
entering  his  teens,  but  he  doesn't  follow  the  pathway  that  leads  to  good 
citizenship,  through  the  school,  the  church,  supervised  recreation,  etc. 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


81 


He  wanders  back  and  forth  until  he  comes  in  contact  with  a  rough- 
looking  character,  with  his  cap  pulled  down  over  his  face,  who  entices 
him  to  the  "easy  way."  Standing  a  short  distance  away  is  a  policeman, 
ready  to  take  the  two  of  them  into  custody,  and  back  farther  in  thte 
picture  stands  the  prison:  Over  that  scene  is  written  the  cost  to  the 
country  of  that  kind  of  supervision,  necessary,  it  is  true. 

In  the  other  picture  another  young  man  is  coming  out  of  the  same 
home,  walking  straight  along  the  pathway  until  he  meets  his  day-school 
teacher,  who  leads  him  into  the  path  of  learning.  He  meets  a  Sunday 
School  teacher,  and  other  officers  in  his  church.  You  see  him  in  super- 
vised play,  developing  into  a  good  citizen,  and  over  in  the  back  ground 
is  the  school-room,  the  church,  the  playgrounds,  trips  to  the  woods, 
association  with  older  people. 

THE  COST 

The  first  is  costing  the  United  States  Government  today  $16,000,- 
000,000  annually.  Mark  O.  Prentice  who  organized  the  National  Crime 
Commission  in  1925,  says  that  when  we  include  all  the  cost  of  crime 
the  figures  come  close  to  $20,000,000,000.  "Every  year  the  United 
States  loses  more  money  in  its  war  on  crime  than  the  $11,000,000,000 
advanced  to  Europe  during  and  since  the  war."    It  is  stupendous. 

The  cost  of  training  the  child,  if  we  can  reach  him  properly  and 
in  time,  is  less  than  one-fifth  that  amount  annually,  and  yet  the  cost 
of  punishing  the  criminal  is  centered  upon  only  about  one  million  of 
our  citizens ;  this  other,  upon  the  other  hundred  and  nineteen  million,  if 
we  take  the  entire  population ;  and  the  majority  of  the  one  million  are 
at  an  age  that  averages  less  than  twenty  years. 

Here  is  a  real  challenge  to  America!  I  rejoice  with  you  that  the 
chief  executive  has  accepted  the  challenge  and  determined  to  call  the 
attention  of  the  nation  to  the  prevention  of  crime,  rather  than  to  its 
punishment.  ,: 

WHAT  THE  CHURCH  CAN  DO 

Now,  what  can  the  Church  do?  Much.  iAs  I  stand  before  you 
today  my  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude  to  God  for  having  revealed  this 
organization.  When  I  think  how  easily  we  may  reach  every  child  within 
our  domain,  when  I  think  that  we  can  go  to  him  with  the  assurance 
that  we  can  lead  him  into  the  presence  of  God,  if  he  will  but  live  up  to 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  I  feel  a  spirit  of  appreciation  overwhelm 
me.  Thank  the  Lord  for  his  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith! 
When  we  realize  that  the  Church,  almost  in  its  entirety,  was  given  be- 
fore Joseph  Smith  was  twenty-five  years  of  age — a  few  other  revela- 
tions came  later ;  when  we  think  of  the  utter  dependence  of  that  youth 
upon  God  for  his  wisdom,  not  having  the  learning  of  man,  it  seems  to 
me  we  are  forced  to  the  conclusion  that  he  received  light  from  a  higher 
source  than  any  man  could  give  him ;  and  we  know  that  is  true. 

How  may  we  reach  these  youth  ?  In  some  of  the  organizations  of 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Church  every  boy  and  girl  should  be  enrolled.  His  name  or  her 
name  should  appear  on  some  record,  if  not  on  several  records,  through- 
out the  Church,  and  some  teacher  or  some  officer  has  the  obligation  of 
coming  in  contact  with  that  individual  boy  or  girl. 

PERSONAL  INFLUENCE 

There  are  two  ways  to  stem  criminality.  One  is  by  united,  con- 
centrated public  opinion.  The  other,  and  more  effective,  is  by  personal 
contact.  There  are  many  in  this  audience  who  can  look  back  with 
gratitude  to  the  visit  of  some  kind  man,  somebody  who  put  his  hand 
on  your  shoulder  and  said :  "Don't  do  that,"  or  "I  commend  you  for  not 
doing  this,  my  boy."  Some  word  of  commendation,  some  gentle  hand 
led  you  back  into  the  path  that  has  given  you  the  success  to  which  you 
have  attained.  Personal  influence, — we  must  not  lose  sight  of  it.  That 
organization  which  can  supply  that  personal  influence  with  the  least 
waste  of  effort,  and  with  the  highest  degree  of  efficiency,  is  the  most 
potent  organization  in  the  world. 

You  have  before  you,  bishops,  the  following  means  in  your  hands : 
the  Priesthood,  Relief  Society,  Sunday  School,  Young  iMen's  and 
Young  Ladies'  and  Primary  Associations,  not  to  name  the  Church 
schools  and  seminaries.  I  say  bishops,  because  the  bishop  is  the  head  of 
these  organizations,  and  if  the  bishop  will  accept  the  responsibility  of 
formulating  and  of  assigning  the  list,  as  I  am  going  to  outline  it,  there 
need  not  be  a  boy  or  girl  who  within  two  months  may  not  have  had 
a  personal  visit  from  an  efficient  officer  or  teacher. 

For  example,  we  have  in  the  Priesthood  quorums  of  the  Church 
approximately  10,411  officers. 

We  have  in  the  Relief  Society  10,000  teachers.   That  excludes  the  ' 
20,000  visiting  teachers.   I  am  naming  only  the  others. 
The  Sunday  Schools,  over  27,000. 

The  Young  Men  and  Young  Ladies,  combined,  25,000. 
The  Primary,  13,500. 

Now  there  are  some  duplications  in  this,  of  course,  for  which  we 
should  make  allowance.  That  makes  a  total  of  over  86,000  officers  and 
teachers;  and  I  haven't  included  the  instructors  in  the  Priesthood. 
These  are  just  the  officers — 86,000.  If  we  assign  to  each  of  these  but 
five  persons,  you  can  see  at  once  that  that  army  of  officers  and  teachers 
could  come  in  contact  with  over  430,000  men  and  women,  boys  and  girls. 

SEEKING  THE  LOST  ONE 

But  many  of  those  430,000  need  not  the  personal  visits.  The 
ninety  and  nine  are  safe  within  the  fold.  It  js  the  one  that  is  ljotet 
whom  we  should  seek. 

The  Chief  of  Police  of  Berkeley,  who  visited  this  city  recently, 

said: 

"Our  investigations  reveal  the  fact  that  we  have  four  hundred  in  our  schools 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY  83 

who  need  personal  visiting.  The  others  are  going  along  without  much  concern, 
but  these  four  hundred  are  the  potential  criminals  in  our  city." 

So  we  find  in  each  group  there  are  one  or  two,  three  or  four, 
who  need  special  care,  special  guidance.  How  best  can  we  reach  them? 
In  this  way :  Let  every  teacher  in  the  quorums,  every  teacher  in  these 
auxiliaries,  have  before  him  the  list  of  these  potential  delinquents.  Be 
not  satisfied  with  the  good  class  you  have  Sunday  morning  or  Tuesday 
night,  but  feel  that  the  work  is  not  done  until  you  have  carefully  con- 
sidered that  other  list  which  you  hold  in  your  hand,  in  regard  to  which 
you  will  report  to  your  bishop  at  least  once  a  month  your  success  in 
reaching  those  whose  names  are  found  thereon.  \ 

We  know  you  can't  bring  them  all  in.  We  have  tried  it.  But  you 
can  bring  some,  "and  if  you  labor  all  your  days,"  says  the  Lord  through 
the  Prophet,  "and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  a  knowledge  of 
the  truth,  how  great  shall  be  your  joy  in  the  presence  of  your  Father!" 
And  who  knows  what  that  soul  may  be  in  that  kingdom?  Through 
loving  effort  you  might  discover  some  "inglorious  Milton." 

"I  passed  a  stagnant  marsh  that  lay- 
Beneath  a  reeking  scum  of  green, 

A  loathsome  puddle  by  the  way, 
No  sorrier  pool  was  ever  seen. 

I  thought,  how  lost  to  all  things  pure, 
And  clean  and  white,  those  foul  depths  be ! 

Next  day,  from  out  that  pond  obscure 
Two  queenly  lilies  laughed  at  me. 

"I  passed  a  hovel,  round  whose  door 

The  signs  of  penury  were  strewn. 
I  saw  the  grimed  and  littered  floor, 

The  walls  of  logs  from  tree  trunks  hewn. 
I  said,  'The  gates  of  life  are  shut 

To  those  within  that  wretched  pen.' 
But  lo !  from  out  that  lowly  hut 

Came  one  to  rule  the  world  of  men !" 

ACCOUNTING  FOR  EVERY  ,QNE 

I  have  touched  upon  only  one  phase  of  this  great  national  move- 
ment, which  is  one  of  the  cardinal  activities  of  the  Church  of  Christ, 
and  that  is  the  duty  of  accounting  for  every  one.  God  inspire  us  as  we 
go  from  this  Conference,  to  bring  into  the  fold  every  child,  every 
youth,  and  as  :far  as  possible,  every  man  and  woman,  for  there  isn't 
one  who  is  not  God's  child.  And  when  we  are  thus  working  we  are 
carrying  out  the  great  purpose  of  the  Almighty,  the  very  purpose  for 
which  he  established  his  Church  on  earth,  namely,  to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

I  bless  you,  my  fellow  workers,  that  you  may  be  inspired  to  co- 
operate, not  only  with  the  officers  who  preside  over  you,  not  only  with 
the  President  of  the  United  States,  but  with  the  Savior,  who  said  of 
old,  as  he  says  today :   "Lovest  thou  me  ?  Then  feed  my  lambs." 

God  help  us  to  follow  that  injunction,  1  (pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  laying  aside  the  remarks  that  I  had  prepared  to  deliver 
during  this  Conference,  should  I  happen  to  be  called  upon,  and  this 
for  special  reasons  that  have  occurred  to  me  during  the  last  few 
minutes.  In  the  first  place,  I  realize  that  this  congregation  has  been 
together  for  a  long  time.  It  has  been  a  strenuous  day  throughout, 
and  according  to  the  announcement  of  President  Grant,  I  am  to  be 
the  closing  speaker  of  this  meeting. 

It  has  been,  to  me,  a  glorious  day.  Many  great  and  important 
themes  have  been  developed.  I  was  thrilled  with  the  beautiful  discourse 
of  President  Ivins  on  the  subject  of  the  resurrection,  and  pleased  with 
the  reassertion  of  our  faith  in  that  simple  story  that  he  developed 
chiefly  from  the  New  Testament.  And  in  all  the  other  addresses  there 
has  been  more  or  less  of.  intensity  of  thought  in  reference  to  organized 
effort  to  achieve  righteous  ends.  All  through,  I  repeat,  this  has  been 
a  strenuous  day  in  our  worship.  • 

It  seems  to  me  that  if  I  could  get  the  spirit  of  it,  it  could  be  a 
fitting  close  to  proceed  in  a  manner  that  would  permit  us  to  relax  a 
little  the  intensity  of  our  intellectual  effort.  So  I  am  going  to  proceed 
an  a  way  that  perhaps  may  have  that  effect.   I  trust  it  will. 

To  begin  with,  there  is  no  reason  on  earth  that  I  know  of  why 
I  should  refer  to  the  opening  address  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  on 
the  first  day  of  our  Conference,  because  that  was  a  complete  thing  in 
itself  as  he  delivered  it — in  the  introduction  of  it,  in  the  development 
of  it,  and  in  the  closing  admonitions  of  it.  From  my  youth  I  have  been 
delighted  in  the  defense  of  the  faith  and  of  the  Saints,  and  have  made 
some  efforts,  humble  ones,  of  course,  in  that  direction.  I  was  pleased 
beyond  all  expression  that  at  this  time,  when  falsehood  had  reared  its 
head,  and  slanders  would  spread  their  baneful  influence  to  hinder  the 
progress  of  the  Church,  the  Church  itself  was  able,  through  its  Pres- 
ident, to  make  a  complete  and  comprehensive  denial  and  denunciation 
of  all  those  things.  I  am  sure  President  Grant  has  created  for  the 
Church,  at  this  Conference,  a  permanent  document  that  will  be  useful 
in  all  time  to  come  as  a  standard  to  which  we  can  refer  in  denial  of 
false  charges,  now  and  hereafter  on  the  points  treated;  because  I  do 
not  suppose  that  the  enemies  of  the  Church  will  cease  their  efforts; 
and  others  will  arise — even  if  these  present  ones  were  supposed  to  be 
crushed — others  will  arise  to  perpetuate  their  evil  work. 

Yesterday  afternoon,  as  I  entered  the  building,  you  were  singing 
that  wonderful  hymn  of  Montgomery's  on  "prayer" : 

"Prayer  is  the  soul's  sincere  desire, 
Uttered  or  unexpressed." 

I  presume  that  it  is  inconvenient,  and  perhaps  hardly  tolerable  to 
sing  all  the  eight  verses  of  this  beautiful  hymn,  though  each  verse  is  in 
itself  a  gem ;  but  if  we  may  not  sing  all  the  eight  verses,  I  have  often 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


•thought  that  I  would  like  to  see  the  Church  adopt  the  practice  of  singing 
the  last  verse  of  that  hymn.  If  we  could  put  that  in  with  the  others 
usually  sung,  I  should  be  happy  over  it.   It  runs  as  follows : 

"0  Thou  by  whom  we  come  to  God, 
The  Life,  the  Truth,  the  Way! 
The  path  of  prayer  Thyself  hast  trod; 
Lord,  teach  us  how  to  pray." 

One  of  the  sweetest  incidents  related  in  the  New  Testament  is 
that  one  where  the  disciples  gather  about  the  Christ  and  say  to  him : 
"Master,  John  taught  his  disciples  to  pray.  Teach  us  how  to  pray." 
And  it  was  in  answer  to  that  petition  of  theirs  that  the  Christ  gave  bis 
very  wonderful  instructions  on  prayer,  and  then  introduced  that  classic 
of  devotional  exercise,  the  Lord's  prayer;  and  then  continued  his 
comments  upon  it.  He  taught  them  how  to  pray,  and  moreover,  he 
set  them  the  example  of  prayer. 

The  prayer  known  as  the  Lord's  Prayer  may  not  be  the  prayer 
that  would  be  suitable  for  all  occasions,  although  it  is  so  comprehensive 
and  covers  such  important  matters.  I  think  he  intended  that  it  should 
be  rather  a  sample  of  prayer,  in  simplicity,  in  brevity,  in  spirit,  and 
you  will  note  perhaps  that  it  was  a  universal  prayer.  It  was  not  a 
strictly  Christian  prayer,  in  that  it  was  not  offered  in  the  name  of  Christ, 
but  was  an  address  unto  the  "All  Father,"  and  has  become  a  universal 
prayer,  given  to  the  world  through  which  every  cult,  sect  or  division  of 
■religion  could  express  its  attitude  towards  God.  It  is  valuable  chiefly 
for  the  very  universal  spirit  that  is  in  it. 

But  I  call  your  attention  to  this  great  request,  "Lord,  teach  us  how 
to  pray."  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to  the  fact  that  this  New 
Dispensation  has  not  been  left  without  instruction  on  that  subject.  You 
will  find  in  the  history  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  a  rather  singular 
declaration.  Speaking  in  the  early  part  of  October,  1831,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  said:  "I  received  the  following  prayer,  given  through  revela- 
tion." But  it  is  more  than  a  revelation  to  be  called  a  prayer.  It  is  in 
■reality  a  revelation  on  prayer,  and  that  is  quite  another  matter.  ,  Very 
little  has  ever  been  said  of  it.  It  just  seemed  to  drop  out  of  the  clear 
is)ky,  into  the  record  of  the  Prophet:  but  as  I  said,  it  is  not  only  a 
revelation  called  a  prayer,  but  it  is  a  revelation  on  prayer,  in  that  the 
Lord  outlines  for  us  the  things,  I  think,  he  would  have  us  hold  nearest 
to  our  hearts  and  comprehend  in  our  deep  and  earnest  desires  con- 
cerning the  work  of  God  in  the  earth. 

Because  it  has  been  so  infrequently  referred  to  and  used  by  the 
Church,  I  thought  that  we  could  now  just  relax  our  tense  nerves,  and 
could  close  this  meeting,  on  the  accepted  anniversary  of  the  resurrection 
of  the  Christ,  by  the  reading  of  this  wonderful  prayer,  and  go  hence, 
influenced  with  the  spirit  which  I  am  sure  it  will  leave;  and  let  us 
indulge  in  the  feeling  of  divine  worship  while  we  consider  the  beauty 
and  grandeur,  and  express  the  desires  that  are  given  through  revelation 
to  this  New  Dispensation  Church  on  the  great  theme  that  God  would 
have  our  minds  dwell  upon. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


During  my  short  experience  in  the  army  I  learned  to  appreciate 
the  psychology  of  standing  at  attention  before  the  officers  of  the  army. 
-There  was  a  wonderful  spirit  that  went  with  that  custom  of  the  army, 
and  it  tended  much  to  improve  the  corps  d' esprit  of  the  companies  and 
of  the  battalions  and  regiments  and  divisions  into  which  the  army  was 
divided. 

Now,  what  I  am  going  to  suggest  is  that  in  our  spirits,  at  least, 
we  here  assembled  draw  our  minds  to  attention  to  these  great  things 
that  God  revealed,  through  his  prophet,  to  the  Church.  I  read : 

"Hearken,  and  lo,  a  voice  as  of  one  sent  down  from  on  high,  who  is  mighty 
and  powerful,  whose  going  forth  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  yea,  whose  voice 
is  unto  men."  (The  foregoing,  of  course,  has  reference  to  the  Christ.)  "Prepare 
ye  the  way  of  the  Lord,  make  his  paths  straight. 

"The  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  are  committed  unto  man  on  the  earth, 
and  from  thence  shall  the  gospel  roll  forth  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  as  the 
stone  which  is  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands  shall  roll  forth,  until  it  has 
filled  the  whole  earth.  ( 

"Yea,  a  voice  crying — Prepare  ye  the  way  'of  the  Lord,  prepare  ye  the  supper 
of  the  Lamb,  make  ready  for  the  Bridegroom." 

Here  the  scene  shifts,  and  this  revelation  on  prayer  becomes  a 
commandment  to  pray: 

"Pray  unto  the  Lord,  call  upon  his  holy  name,  make  known  his  wonderful 
works  among  the  people. 

"Call  upon  the  Lord,  that  his  kingdom  may  go  forth  upon  the  earth,  that 
the  inhabitants  thereof  may  receive  it,  and  be  prepared  for  the  days  to  come, 
in  the  which  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come  down  in  heaven,  clothed  in  the  brightness 
of  his  glory,  to  meet  'the  kingdom  of  God  which  is  set  up  on  the  earth. 

"Wherefore,  may  the  kingdom  of  God  go  forth,  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
may  come,  that  thou,  O  God,  mayest  be  glorified  in  heaven  so  on  earth,  that 
thine  enemies  may  be  subdued ;  for  thine  is  the  honor,  power  and  glory,  forever 
and  ever.  Amen." 

So  pray  we,  in  thy  words  given  to  thy  Church  through  the  revela- 
tion of  thy  servant  Joseph  on  prayer,  and  ask  thee,  O  God,  to  accept 
these  divine  expressions  concerning  the  going  forth  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  the  earth,  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven  may  come,  and  the  two 
be  joined,  to  the  glory  of  God  and  the  salvation  of  the  world.  We 
so  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

As  a  closing  number  the  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Lord  Now 
Victorious."  , 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Jesse  W.  Richins,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Twin  Falls  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock,  April  6th. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  10  o'clock,  Monday 
morning,  April  6th,  1931. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  Us,  O  Thou  Great 
Jehovah." 

Elder  Almon  T.  Butterfield,  President  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer.  ! 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Israel,  Israel,  God  is  Calling." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  feel  as  I  have  always  felt  relative  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Lattar-day  Saints.  I  have  no  doubt  in  my  heart  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord.  Surely  we  who  have  faith  believe  that  the  .Lord's 
arm  is  not  shortened,  that  he  is  amply  able  to  direct  and  carry  On  this 
great  /work. 

I  realize  the  responsibility  coming  to  any  person  who  is  called 
to  speak  to  this  people.  I  have  sat  on  the  "anxious  bench"  now  for 
two  days,  and  I  feel  this  morning  that  everything  I  have  heard  and  read 
and  know  has  oozed  out  of  me.  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  antedate  in 
age  and  in  service  as  one  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  all  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  who  sit  in  front  of  me.  I  feel  honored  and 
have  always  felt  honored  to  associate  with  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church.  I  desire  to  say  to  the  people,  the  presidents  of  Stakes 
and  their  counselors,  the  high  councilors,  the  bishops  and  their  counsel- 
ors, you  have  always  extended  to  me  the  greatest  courtesy  and  respect, 
and  whenever  I  have  attended  a  conference  and  returned  home  I  have 
felt  that  I  amounted  to  something.  But  after  I  wandered  around  here 
in  Salt  Lake  I  sort  of  lost  that  feeling,  .sometimes,  and  felt  like  a 
stranger  among  strangers. 

I  desire  to  refer  back  to  a  time  when  I  was  about  thirteen  years 
of  age,  when  Heber  C.  Kimball  sent  word  to  my  brother,  Joseph 
Kimball,  who  is  now  in  the  Church  (Office  Building,  and  myself,  to 
come  to  his  office.  When  we  arrived  there,  mere  boys,  he  said  to  us : 
"If  you  want  your  father's  blessing  you  be  at  the  endowment  house 
in  the  morning  and  have  your  endowments." 

Of  course  we  were  frightened  nearly  to  death.  I  do  not  know 
how  people  feel  when  they  are  going  to  be  executed,  but  that  is  the 
sort  of  feeling  I  had,  not  knowing  and  having  no  conception  of  what 
it  all  meant.  However,  we  were  there  and  we  had  our  endowments. 
I  did  not  remember  much  of  that  which  transpired,  but  I  was  awed, 
and  the  impression  was  burned  into  my  soul  of  the  sacredness  of  that 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


place,  and  the  sacredness  of  the  covenants  which  I  had  entered  into 
when  almost  a  child.  When  I  was  fifteen  years  old  our  father  passed 
away,  and  we  were  left  as  many  children  are  left  to  wander  and  fight 
our  battles  as  best  we  could. 

My  father,  Heber  C.  Kimball,  trained  fourteen  years  in  the  military 
service.  In  an  excerpt  which  I  have  copied  from  his  biography  he 
remarks  with  honest  pride  that  he  was  never  brought  before  a  court 
martial  for  neglect.  He  further  says :  "I  was  a  Free  Mason  at  the 
age  of  twenty-two  in  the  Lodge  at  Victor  and  received  the  first  three 
degrees  of  Masonry."  He  said:  "I  have  been  as  true  as  an  angel  ,to 
my  covenants  with  the  Masons.  No  man  was  admitted  into  the  Lodge 
unless  he  bore  a  good  moral  character  and  was  a  man  of  steady  habits. 
A  man  would  be  suspended  for  getting  drunk.  I  wish  that  all  men  were 
Masons  and  would  live  up  to  their  profession.  The  world  would  be 
much  better  for  it."  This  was  said  at  least  ten  years  prior  to  his  bap- 
tism as  a  member  of  the  Latter-day  Church. 

Now  the  point  I  want  to  reach  if  I  can,  if  the  Lord  will  give  me 
his  Spirit,  is  just  this :  Heber  C.  Kimball  made  the  following  statement 
which  deeply  impressed  me:  "I  would  that  all  men  and  women  who 
enter  these  holy  temples  could  be  made  to  understand  that  we  are  placed 
under  obligations  to  God."  Whenever  we  are  permitted  to  enter  the 
holy  temples  and  perform  those  ordinances  'We  make  covenants  with 
the  Father,  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost." 

I  cannot  conceive  of  a  more  sacred  covenant  made  by  mortal 
man.  That  is  the  impression  I  desire  to  impart  to  you  good  people, 
especially  those  who  hold  the  holy  priesthood,  and  I  think  it  is  high 
time  that  every  man  who  is  so  honored  of  God  should  understand  his 
office  and  calling.  I  understand  my  calling  as  one  of  the  First  Council, 
a  Seventy  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

President  Brigham  Young  said  at  a  priesthood  meeting  in  Logan, 
the  same  year  that  he  died,  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  to  them 
in  early  days:  "Brethren,  you  are  going  out  to  ordain  Seventies,  and 
you  are  to  ordain  them  to  the  high  priesthood.  You  are  to  ordain 
them  to  the  High  Priesthood  and  ordain  them  Seventy-Apostles." 

President  Young  said:  "That  is  the  language  I  use,  and  that  is 
the  way."  I  think  none  of  us  would  question  President  Brigham 
Young,  who  was  privileged  above  most  men  to  associate  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  understand  what  it  all  means.  It  means 
that  we  Seventies  are  under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  First  Council  of  !the  Seventy,  lit  means  that  they  are  to  open 
the  doors  to  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  proclaim  the  truth;  that 
we  are  under  their  direction,  and  "whenever  they  need  assistance  they 
are  to  call  upon  the  Seventies  instead  of  any  others."  It  simply  means 
that  Seventies  have  the  apostolic  calling  as  witnesses  and  preachers 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all  the  world. 

I  am  not  ignorant  of  the  fact.  I  know  what  the  trouble  is. 
I   want  to  convey  that  idea  to  you.     We  have   185  quorums 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


89 


of  Seventy.  They  tell  me  that  they  number  10,741.  There  are 
Seventies  by  the  hundreds  in  this  Church  who  can  be  prepared  to 
go  out  as  witnesses  for  the  Lord  and  preachers  of  righteousness  under 
the  direction  of  the  Apostles,  but  the  fault  is  not  wholly  with  men,  it 
is  a  financial  question,  almost  entirely  a  financial  question,  because 
the  rule  is  that  many  of  the  Seventies  have  filled  missions  and  their 
sons,  also.  A  number  of  Elders  have  filled  missions  and  have  come 
home  and  been  ordained  Seventies  who  have  married  wives  and  cannot 
for  the  present  go  on  a  second  mission.  That  is  the  chief  reason.  Any 
time  the  Lord  moves  upon  his  servants  to  call  upon  the  Seventies,  I 
assure  you  they  will  respond  for  I  am  as  familiar  with  the  quorums 
of  Seventy  as  any  man  in  the  Church.  I  have  labored  among  the 
Seventies  for  nearly  forty  ryears,  and  I  love  the  work  and  'God  has 
given  me  the  spirit  of  my  office  and  calling  when  laboring  among  them. 

It  is  not  my  province  nor  intention  to  preach.  I  have  something 
here  that  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  but  time  will  not  permit.  It  is 
scripture ;  it  is  the  word  of  God,  and  I  would  advise  myself  and  every 
other  man  and  woman  in  this  Church  to  read  the  Bible.  It  is  not  read 
as  much  as  it  should  be.  The  same  is  true  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  You  will 
find  within  the  lids  of  those  great  bocks  many  prophecies  and  revela- 
tions, and  if  you  will  go  to  God  and  ask  him  in  humility  if  these  things 
are  true  he  will  give  you  the  testimony  and  you  will  know.  God  bless 
you.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  very  greatly  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  has 
permitted  me  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  wonderful  Conference.  But  I 
think  that  most  of  all  I  am  thankful  for  the  fact  that  I  find  myself 
in  every  way  in  harmony  and  agreeing  with  the  admonitions,  counsels 
and  teachings  of  this  splendid  Conference.  It  has  certainly  been  an 
inspiration  to  see  the  wonderful  attendance  yesterday  and  the  day  before. 
It  is  not  so  large  today,  due,  I  feel  sure,  to  the  fact  that  many  of  our 
brethren  and  sisters  from  this  city  and  nearby  settlements  are  under 
the  necessity  of  returning  home  and  taking  up  their  labors  in  the 
pursuit  of  a  livelihood. 

But  as  I  have  meditated  upon  the  matter  the  thought  has  come  to 
me,  surely  there  have  been  great  multitudes  who  have  listened  to  the 
teachings  of  this  Conference,  for  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
radio,  many  thousands  have  been  brought  in  touch  with  the  advice, 
counsel  and  admonitions  that  have  come  to  us  from  the  Lord  through 
his  chosen  servants.  / 

As  my  mind  has  gone  back  over  the  history  of  the  Lord's  people 
from  the  remote  past  to  the  present,  I  have  reflected  that  it  has  been 
the  disposition  of  men  to  stray  away  from  the  paths  marked  out  by 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Lord  and  of  some  to  prefer  to  walk  in  bypaths.  It  has  always 
been  necessary  for  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  through  him  inspired,  to 
admonish  the  people,  to  counsel  them,  to  reprove  ithem  and  bring 
them  back,  if  possible,  into  the  right  road,  where  they  would  walk 
in  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  seek  after  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

It  is  true,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  has  given  us  our 
free  agency.  iWe  are  not  forced,  but  we  are  admonished  and  taught. 
So  it  seems  to  me  there  is  no  excuse  for  us  if  we  stray  away. 

The  Lord,  in  speaking  to  his  prophet,  Ezekiel,  reminded  him  that 
when  the  people  set'  up  a  watchman  to  watch  over  their  interests — and 
the  Lord  admonished  him  that  he  had  been  called  as  a  watchman  over 
Israel — and  that  watchman  saw  the  enemy  coming  and  danger  threaten 
the  people,  it  was  his  duty  to  sound  a  warning  and  blow  his  trumpet  and 
advise  the  people  of  the  impending"  danger.  Then  he  goes  on  to  say 
that  if  he  does  so  and  warns  the  people,  if  danger  comes  and  they  are 
overtaken  in  their  sins  and  perish,  the  responsibility  shall  be  upon 
their  own  heads.  But  if  the  watchman  discharges  not  his  duty  and 
'  warns  not  the  people,  and  danger  comes  and  they  are  destroyed,  and 
even  if  they  die  in  their  sins,  yet  will  the  Lord  hold  responsible  the 
watchman  that  he  has  placed  over  them. 

,  Truly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a  people  we  have  reason  to 
rejoice  that  the  Lord  has  placed  watchmen  over  us  who,  in  times  past, 
and  particularly  during  this  Conference,  have  advised  the  people  of 
impending  danger,  and  in  no  uncertain  terms.  Surely,  with  no  equivo- 
cation, we  have  been  told  where  we  might  walk  with  safety  and 
wherein  danger  lies ;  so  that  the  responsibility  of  our  actions  in  regard 
to  the  things  spoken  of  during  this  Conference,  I  take  it,  now  rests 
upon  the  people,  upon  each  of  us  individually,  and  my  hope  and  prayer 
is  that  we  may  walk  in  the  way  of  the  Lord. 

It  has  been  my  experience  throughout  my  life  until  now  that 
the  Holy  Spirit,  if  left  to  operate  freely  in  our  lives,  will  most  surely 
make  known  to  us  what  is  true  and  what  is  false;  and  it  is  only  by 
quenching  that  Spirit  that  man  can  be  led  away.  I  admonish  the  people 
to  seek  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  to  stir  up,  as  Paul  says,  the  gifts  of 
God  that  are  in  you  through  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  the  Elders  who 
have  confirmed  you  members  of  the  Church  and  who  have  bestowed 
upon  you,  after  your  water  baptism,  the  Holy  Ghost.  It  is  the  witness 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  It  is  the  witness  of  all  truth,  and  its 
mission  is  to  reveal  unto  us  all  truth  as  pertaining  to  things  past  and 
present,  and  it  will  make  known  and  reveal  to  us  that  which  we  should 
know  pertaining  to  things  that  are  yet  to  come.  * 

All  true  things  might  be  duplicated.  In  the  history  of  the  Lord's 
people  we  have  found  that  miracles  wrought  by  his  servants  and  by 
his  power  have  been  so  closely  duplicated  by  the  evil  one  that  they 
are  hard  to  detect  from  the  genuine.  And  in  the  last  days,  as  a  sign 
of  the  coming  of  the  Savior  of  the  world,  we  are  admonished  by  him 
that  there  should  be  false  teachers,  that  there  should  be  false  prophets, 


ELDER   REY  L.   PRATT  , 


91 


that  there  should  even  be  false  Christs ;  and  they  shall  work  wonderful 
and  mighty  miracles,  even  to  the  extent  that  they  shall  be  able  to  call 
'  down  fire  from  heaven  and  deceive  if  possible  the  very  elect.  So 
that  it  is  not  safe,  brethren  and  sisters,  for  us  to  tie  our  faith  to  miracles. 
But  I  believe  sincerely  and  firmly  that  there  is  one  thing  that  Satan 
cannot  duplicate,  and  that  is  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  witness 
that  burns  within  us  and  makes  us  know  when  a  thing  is  true.  That 
witness  is  yours  to  have  if  you  will  live  in  harmony  with  the  teachings 
of  the  Gospel  of  'Jesus  Christ. 

As  I  said  in  the  beginning,  I  am  happy  to  find  myself  in  harmony 
and  in  accord  with  the  teachings  of  the  Church,  in  accord  with  the 
Gospel  as  it  has  been  restored  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph 
Smith.  I  have  not  one  word  or  thought  of  criticism  to  offer  as  to 
the  policy  of  the  Church  now  or  in  times  past.  I  feel  perfectly  secure, 
'my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  following  the  teachings  of  those  whom  I 
bear  witness  to  you  are  prophets,  seers  and  revelators  unto  this  people. 
And  it  is  a  serious  and  a  dangerous  thing  for  us  to  set  up  our  desires 
or  our  judgment  contrary  to  that  which  comes  through  the  servants 
of  the  Lord,  particularly  when  spoken,  as  have  been  the  admonitions 
of  President  Grant  during  this  Conference. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  I  am  happy  in 
my  ministry.  I  shall  be  delighted  to  continue  as  long  as  the  Lord  sees 
fit  to  use  me  as  an  instrument  in  the  spread  of  the  Gospel  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  and  I  am  particularly  happy  to  be  laboring  among 
the  Lamanite  people.  I  rejoice  to  bring  to  you  greetings  from  them, 
particularly  from  our  people  in  the  far-off  land  of  Mexico,  where  for 
nearly  six  years  now  they  have  not  been  permitted  to  have  the  associa- 
tion and  the  ministrations  of  the  Elders  from  Zion.  But  they  are 
happy  and  are  growing  and  progressing  in  the  work.  The  local 
priesthood  have  risen  to  the  occasion,  and  our  district  presidents,  our 
branch  presidents  and  our  missionaries  from  among  the  people  of  that 
land,  who  are  actively  engaged  in  the  land  of  Mexico,  are  doing  a 
wonderful  work,  and  their  ministry  I  am  sure  is  acceptable  to  the 
Lord.  They  are  building  meeting  houses.  Since  this  crisis  has  come 
in  the  affairs  of  Mexico  that  has  kept'  us  from  sending  our  Elders 
there  and  made  it  impossible  for  us  to  hire  halls  freely  in  which  to 
hold  services,  due  to  the  fact  that  the  law  requires  that  'services  must 
be  held  in  a  building  dedicated  exclusively  as  a  Church  building,  our 
Saints  have  erected  four  meeting  houses  near  the  vicinity  of  Mexico 
City  and  are  endeavoring  to  provide  themselves  with  places  in  which 
they  can  worship  the  Lord  freely  and  not  be  handicapped  in  any  way. 

There  is  no  disposition  on  the  part  of  the  Mexican  government 
to  prohibit  our  work  as  long  as  we  comply  with  the  law  of  the  land. 
There  is  no  disposition  to  trv  to  prevent  the  spread  of  Mormonism,  or 
for  that  matter  the  free  exercise  of  any  religion  in  the  land.  They 
do  require,  however,  that  those  who  minister  in  churches  in  Mexico 
be  citizens  of  the  country  and  that  they  register  with  the  government, 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


also  that  all  places  of  worship  be  dedicated  as  such  and  be  registered 
with  the  government.  ! 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  continue  with  his  people 
everywhere,  that  the  Gospel  may  spread,  and  that  the  Church  may  grow 
until  ultimately  the  cause  of  right  shall  triumph  in  the  earth.  This 
is  my  prayer,  which  I  ask  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  heart  is  full,  made  so  by  the  spirit  of  this  great  Conference, 
for  we  have  been  fed  the  bread  of  life. 

My  thoughts  have  been  led  to  consider  the  holy  scriptures,  the 
word  of  the  Lord,  and  I  shall  take  the  liberty  of  quoting  a  few  of 
those  precious  words  which  are  found  in  Holy  Writ. 

Let  me  start  at  the  beginning : 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 

"And  the  earth  was  without  form,  and  void;  and  darkness  was  upon  the 
face  of- the  deep.    And  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  upon  the  face  of  the  waters. 

"And  Gcd  said,  Let  there  be  light:  and  there  was  light. 

"And  God  saw  the  light,  that  it  was  good ;  and  God  divided  the  light  from 
the  darkness. 

"And  God  called  the  light  Day,  and  the  darkness  he  called  Night.  And 
the  evening  and  the  morning  were  the  first  day." 

What  a  glorious  beginning  t'o  the  great  work  of  creation !  What 
tremendous  forces  were  turned  loose  with  the  utterance  of  that  great 
command:  "Let  there  be  light!" 

It  seems  from  this  passage  of  scripture  that  light  played  a  most 
important  part  in  the  creation  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth.  How  was 
that  all  accomplished?  The  Apostle  Paul  gives  us  a  little  idea  of  it, 
for  he  tells  us,  this  great  Apostle  to  the  Gentiles,  in  his  letter  which 
he  wrote  to  the  Hebrews,  not  only  how  it  was  done,  but'  also  how  it  was 
not  done.    Says  he: 

"Through  faith  we  understand  that  the  worlds  were  framed  by  the  word 
of  God,  so  that  things  which  are  seen  were  not  made  of  things  which  do  appear." 

No,  they  were  not  made  in  this  way.  This  is  man's  way.  When 
we  build  our  homes  to  house  our  families,  our  wives  and  children  and 
see  our  home  in  its  completed  form,  we  conclude  at  once  that  it  has 
been  made  out  of  the  things  which  do  appear  ,around  about'  us.  We 
gather  the  rock — quarry  it  from  the  mountain  side.  We  hew  the 
timbers  from  the  forests,  we  gather  the  sand  and  slack  the  lime  to 
make  the  mortar,  and  we  gather  clay  and  make  it'  into  bricks ;  and  thus 
•  we  build  our  homes.  But  not  so  with  God.  He  has  a  better  way — 
a  more  effective  way — in  creating  the  home  of  his  children. 

In  the  very  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 
What  for?    He  created  „the  worlds  t'o  become  the  habitation  of  his 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


93 


children.  When,  therefore,  he  considered  us  who  were  born  of  him 
in  the  spirit  before  the  world  was,  as  he  stood  in  our  midst  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him :  "We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space 
'there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials  and  we  will  make  an  earth 
whereon  these  may  dwell."  (Abraham  3:24.)  The  materials  were 
not  created ;  they  were  already  there,  but  they  were  without  form 
and  void — the  elements  are  eternal,  but  God  understands  the  constitu- 
tion of  matter  and  the  forces  of  the  universe ;.  so,  looking  out  upon 
the  great  expanse,  he  says : 

"Let  us  go  down  and  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may  dwell." 
"These"  meant  you  and  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  the  many 
millions  who  inhabit  this  globe,  and  the  many  other  millions  that  have 
inhabited  it  from  the  very  beginning  of  time. 

And  how  did  he  do  it?  By  the  word  of  God,  through  faith.  "Let 
there  be  light,"  was  the  beginning.  There  must  then  be  something  in 
this  light  possessing  creative  power.  Let  us  seek  a  little  more  light 
by  quoting  more  scripture: 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God  and  the 
Word  was  God. 

"The  same  was  in  the  beginning  with  God. 

"All  things  were  made  by  him;  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made 
that  was  made. 

"In  him  was  life ;  and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men. 

"And  the  light  shineth  in  darkness ;  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not." 
"That  was  the  true  light  which  lighteth  every  man  that  cometh  into  the 
world." 

This  then  was  the  Word  that  was  with  God  in  the  very  beginning 
and  by  whom,  through  his  unbounded  faith,  the  worlds  were  framed, 
and  without  whom  was  not'  anything  made  that  was  made,  and  in 
whom  was  life  itself,  and  this  life  was  the  light  of  men  and  is  the 
"light  that  shineth  in  darkness."  This  light  even  penetrated  that  dark- 
ness that  was  "upon  the  face  of  the  deep"  and  there  are  ninety-three 
million  miles  of  it  between  us  and  the  sun,  and  how  many  more  millions 
of  miles  there  are  between  us  and  the  dwelling  place  of  God,  where 
"He  sits  enthroned  in  the  midst  of  all  things  in  the  bosom  of  eternity," 
we  may  not  even  guess.  Science  teaches  us,  however,  that  utter  dark- 
ness prevails  throughout  the  boundless  space;  but  when  God  says: 
"Let  there  be  light,"  it  penetrates  it  all  and  shineth  in  it  but  the  darkness 
comprehends  it  not'. 

Again  I  quote  from  the  first  chapter  of  John:  "No  man  hath 
seen  God  at  any  time."  This  was  quoted  and  properly  explained  yester- 
day by  Apostle  Orson  F.  Whitney  in  his  excellent  address,  by  citing 
these  words  added  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith :  "unless  quickened 
by  the  Spirit  of  God."  Surely  this  clarifies  it  and  makes  it  harmonize 
with  the  scriptures  wherein  are  recorded  the  many  appearances  of  God 
to  his  servants  the  prophets.  And  yet,  I  think  there  was  another  thought 
in  the  mind  of  the  beloved  disciple  John  when  he  wrote  this  paragraph 
which  I  infer  from  the  remaining  part  of  this  verse.   Let  me  quote  it 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  full:  "No  man  hath  seen  God  at  any  time;  the, only  begotten  Son, 
which  is  in  the  bosom  of  the  Father,  he  hath  declared  him." 

Who  was  it  that  created  this  world  ?  Have  we  not  read  it  was  the 
Word  that  was  with  the  Father  in  the  very  beginning,  and  that 
all  things  were  made  by  him  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made? 
He  it  was  then  that  created  the  heavens  and  the  earth.  He  it  wais 
then  who,  under  the  Father,  created  Adam  and  Eve  and  placed  them 
in  the  Garden  of  Eden.  He  it  was,  this  Son  of  God,  known  then  as 
Jehovah,  who  appeared  to  Abraham  upon  the  plains  of  Mamre.  He 
it  was  who  called  Moses  up  into  the  mountain  and  delivered  unto 
him  the  law  of  the  Lord,  ,the  law  of  carnal  commandments.  He  it! 
was  who  came  in  the  meridian  of  time  and  was  born  of  the  Virgin 
Mary.  Thus  he  was  made  flesh.  This  Son  .of  God,  the  Only  Begotten 
of  the  Father,  full  of  grace  and  truth,  who  now  sits  at  the  right  hand 
of  the  Majesty  on  High  from  whence  proceed eth  the  light  to  fill  the 
immensity  of  space,  even  "the  light  which  is  in  all  things,  which  giveth 
life  to  all  things,  which  is  the  law  by  which  all  things  are  governed, 
even  the  power  of  God  who  sitteth  upon  his  throne,  who  is  in  the 
bosom  of  eternity,  who  is  in  the  midst  of  all  things."  (Doc.  and  Cov. 
88:13).  So  John  to  whom  the  heavens  were  opened,  seeing  these 
wonderful  achievements  of  his  Lord  and  Master  but  having  God  the 
Father  in  mind,  declares  "No  man  hath  seen  God  [that  is  the  Father] 
at  any  time ;  the  only  begotten  Son,  which  is  in  the  bosom  of  the  Father, 
he  hath  declared  him." 

From  these  scriptures  which  I  have  quoted  and.  many  more 
that  might  be  cited,  it  is  evident  that  our  Redeemer,  known  to  ancient 
Israel  as  Jehovah  and  to  us  as  Jesus  Christ,  was  the  One  who  appeared 
to  the  prophets  and  although  the  voice  of  the  Father  had  been  heard 
as  at  the  baptism  of  the  Savior:  "This  is  my  beloved  Son  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,"  not  until  the  spring  of  1820  do  we  have  any  account 
of  the  appearance  of  the  Father,  when  both  Father  and  Son  appeared 
to  Joseph  in  the  ,  Sacred  Grove,  when  this  latter-day  Prophet,  then 
less  than  fifteen  years  of  age,  being  transfigured  before  them  and 
quickened  by  the  Spirit,  not  only  beheld  them  both,  observing  that' 
the  one  was  the  express  image  of  the  other,  but  also  heard  again  his 
voice  declaring:  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  ye  him."  A  most 
wonderful  vision  which,  although  most  unusual,  was  doubtless  made 
necessary  in  order  to  dispel  forever  the  false  conceptions  of  the  modern 
religious  world  regarding  the  personality  of  God. 

What  unanimity  there  is  in  the  utterances  of  the  inspired  apostles 
and  prophets  of  God !  One  of  the  characteristics  by  which  we  are  able 
to  recognize  all  true  prophets  of  God  is  this :  They  all  teach  the  same 
thing — they  do  not  contradict  each  other  but  uniformly  bear  witness 
to  the  same  fundamental  truths.  Let  me  now  call  your  attention  to  some 
of  the  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  we  shall 
discover  that  same  unanimity,  the  same  incontrovertible  evidence  that 
he  too  was  a  true  prophet  of  the  living  God.   Let  me  read : 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


95 


"He  that  ascended  up  on  high,  as  also  he  descended  below  all  things, 
in  that  he  comprehended  all  things,  that  he  might  be  in  all  and  through  all 
things,  the  light  of  truth; 

"Which  truth  shineth.  This  is  the  light  of  Christ.  As  also  he  is  in  the 
sun,  and  the  light  of  the  sun,  and  tne  power  thereof  by  which  it  was  made. 

"As  also  he  is  in  the  moon,  and  is  the  light  of  the  moon,  and  the  power 
thereof  by  ;which  it  was  made;  ' 

"As  also  the  light  of  the  stars,  and  the  power  thereof  by  which  they  were 
made; 

"And  the  earth  also,  and  the  power  thereof,  even  the  earth  upon  which  you 
stand."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  88:6-10). 

If  the  former  prophets  and  apostles  have  been  even  in  the  smallest 
degree  obscure  regarding  the  "Light"  and  the  part  it  performed  in 
the  creation  and  as  to  who  that  Light  was,  then  these  paragraphs  which 
I  have  just  read  remove  all  dubiety  and  declare  unequivocally  that 
Christ  was  that  Light  which  animated  the  universe  and  by  which 
through  faith  the  worlds  were  evolved  or  framed  by  the  Word  of  God. 

Now  let  me  read  a  little  more  from  John: 

"And  the  Word  was  made  flesh,  and  dwelt  among  us,  (and  we  beheld 
his  glory,  the  glory  as  of  the  only  begotten  of  the  Father)  full  of  grace  and  truth." 

And  again  : 

"He  came  unto  his  own,  and  his  own  received  him  not. 

"But  as  many  as  received  him,  to  them  gave  he  power  to  become  the  sons 
of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe  on  his  name; 

"Which  were  born,  not  of  blood,  nor  of  the  will  of  the  flesh,  nor  of  the 
will  of  man,  but  of  God." 

Here  we  are  told  that  power  was  given  to  them  that  believe  on 
him  to  become  the  sons  of  God.  That  applies  to  all  true  believers. 
What  was  that  power  to  which  he  refers  ?  It  was  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  through  obedience  to  which  we  may  become  both  sons  and 
daughters  of  God;  thus  as  iPaul  tells  us  the  Gospel  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  But  how  are  we  to  become  his  sons  and  daughters, 
we  who  were  born  "not  of  blood  nor  of  the  will  of  the  flesh,  nor  of 
the  will  of  man,  but  of  God  ?"  No,  there  was  only  one  that  was  thus  born, 
"the  only  Begotten  Son;"  he  was  the  only  one  'begotten  in  the  flesh 
but  we  were  also  born  not  of  flesh  nor  blood  but  of  God.  Clearly  this 
can  only  refer  to  our  pre-existence  where  we  were  born  of  God  in 
the  spirit,  but  he  gave  them  that  believe  on  him  the  power  through 
obedience  to  his  (Gospel  to  become  his  sons  and  daughters,  both  in 
body  and  spirit,  and  members  in  his  household.  I 

He  came  to  his  own  and  not  only  did  they  reject  him  but  they 
crucified  him,  and  on  the  third  day  he  rose  ifrom  the  tomb,  having 
overcome  death  and  the  grave,  thus  becoming  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind. And  how  was  that'  accomplished?  The  answer  is  plain:  The 
principle  of  life  was  in  him  by  which  he  became  our  Creator,  for  "in 
him  we  live  and  move  and  have  our  being."  By  that  same  power  he 
becomes  the  resurrection,  overcomes  death  and  makes  alive  again  for 
"as  in  Adam  all  men  die  so  in  Jesus  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive  again." 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  incident  recorded  in  the  eleventh  chapter  bf  John  makes  this 
plain.  It  will  toe  remembered  that  Lazarus,  the  brother  of1  Martha 
and  Mary,  the  friend  of  Jesus,  died  when  the  Savior  was  in  another 
part  of  the  country;  tout  when  he  came  up  to  the  home  of  Martha 
and  Mary,  Martha  came  out  to  meet  him  and  isaid  this : 

"Lord,  if  thou  hadst  been  here,  my  brother  had  not  died." 
"Thy  brother  shall  rise  again." 

"I  know  that  he  shall  rise  again  in  the  resurrection  at  the  last  day." 
Then  the  Lord  makes  this  declaration : 

"I  am  the  resurrection,  and  the  life;  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he 
were  dead,  yet  shall  he  live. 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in  me  shall  never  die.  Believest 
thou  this? 

"She  saith  unto  him,  Yea,  Lord :  I  believe  that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  God,  which  should  come  into  the  world."  " 

Now  let  me  give  one  more  illustration  of  the  perfect'  unanimity 
among  the  prophets,  but  in  this  instance  as  between  this  statement  made 
by  the  Savior  which  I  have  just  read  and  a  revelation  given  to  Joseph 
Smith  wherein  the  ILord  makes  known  to  him  the  same  truth.  It  is 
told  in  entirely  different  language  and  was  given  under  entirely  different 
circumstances  and  yet  it  sets  forth  in  great  plainness  the  same  truth : 

"And  the  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man, 

"And  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul. 

"And  the  redemption  of  the  soul  is  through  him  that  quickeneth  all  things." 

In  other  words,  he  is  the  resurrection  and  the  life.  Here  we  also 
learn  that  the  redemption  of  the  soul  which  is  the  resurrection  from 
the  dead  is  through  him  who  quickeneth  all  things,  or  in  other  words, 
it  is  through  him  who  is  "the  light  which  is  in  all  things  which  giveth 
life  to  all  things,  Which  is  the  Jaw  toy  which  all  things  are  governed, 
even  the  power  of  God,"  as  I  have  already  quoted  from  Section  88,  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants ;  or  as  John  states  it :  "In  him  was  life 
and  the  life  was  the  light  of  men;"  and  as  we  read  further  in  the. 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  he  is  also  the  light  of  the  sun,  the  moon  and  the 
stars  and  the  earth  upon  which  we  stand  and  is  the  power  thereof  by 
which  they  were  made ;  and  when  we  look  out  upon  this  beautiful  world 
and  behold  the  splendor  of  the  starry  heavens,  the  morning  and  the 
evening  red,  the  different  forms  and  colors  of  the  clouds  and  particularly 
at  this  time  of  the  year  when  we  see  the  swelling  of  the  touds,  the 
unfolding  of  the  leaves,  the  (blossoms  and  the  flowers  and  all  nature 
bursting  into  life,  we  may  know  from  these  numerous  quotations  which 
I  have  read  from  the  revealed  word  that  all  this  is  through  him  who 
was  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father,  even  the  Lord,  our  Savior,  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  As  we  contemplate  these  things  let  our  hearts 
rejoice,  let  us  lift  up  our  souls  in  grateful  adoration  to  God  that  he 
has  so  beautifully  and  inimitably  adorned  his  great  creation  work.  Amen. 

/ 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


97 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  had  not  expected  to  be  called  on  to  address  this  Conference, 
but  I  do  appreciate  the  privilege  and  the  honor  that  is  bestowed  upon 
me  in  thus  being  called. 

What  President  Wells  has  said  today  has  been  in  my  mind  and 
heart  throughout  the  Conference.  The  thought  that  the  light  shineth 
in  darkness  and  the  darkness  comprehendeth  it  not  is  apparent  in  all 
the  world.  ■ 

When  the  treasurer  of  the  queen  of  Ethiopia  was  returning 
from  Jerusalem,  to  which  place  he  had  gone  to  worship,  he  was 
reading  from  the  prophet  Isaiah.  Phillip,  an  inspired  servant 
of  God  was  impressed  to  come  near  unto  him  and  inquire  if  he  under- 
stood what  he  read,  to  which  he  replied,  "How  can  I,  except  some 
man  teach  me?" 

Around  the  Eunuch  was  this  spirit  which  has  ever  shone  in  dark- 
ness. Being  unable  to  get  into  contact  with  it,  he  could  not  understand 
the  word  of  God.  But  this  servant  of  God,  endowed  with  the  priest- 
hood and  the  authority  to  teach,  was  able  to  make  that  which  to  him 
was  darkness,  plain  and  as  light. 

As  I  conceive  it,  that  is  the  responsibility  of  the  missionary.  The 
light  shineth  in  darkness  in  all  the  world,  and  there  are  honest  souls 
reaching  upward  for  the  light.  It  is  our  earnest  prayer  that  the  Lord 
will  bless  us  and  inspire  us  and  help  us  to  seek  them  out  and  find  them 
and  bring  them  to  the  light,  that  they  may  see  the  truths  of  the  Gospel 
and  rejoice  in  them. 

We  feel  in  the  missions — I  am  sure  that  all  the  missions  feel  alike— 
that  the  prayers  of  the  Saints  and  of  our  brethren  are  the  great  sustain- 
ing influence  behind  us  in  our  work.  Therefore,  I  make  this  appeal 
to  you  this  morning,  to  continue  your  prayers  in  behalf  of  the  missions, 
that  the  Lord  may  inspire  his  servants  who  have  the  task  of  seeking 
out  those  who  want  to  know  the  truth.  There  are  many  of  them. 
We  do  not  know  how  to  find  them  except  we  be  led  to  them.  Will 
you  pray  for  us  ?  Will  you  continue  to  sustain  us  as  you  have  done  ? 
We  in  turn  will  do  the  best  we  can  to  carry  the  message. 

I  am  happy  to  be  able  to  say  that  the  mission  over  which  I  have 
the  honor  ko  preside  seems  to  he  doing  very  well.  The  Saints  are 
faithful,  the  missionaries  are  faithful,  and  they  are  all  enjoying  health, 
strength, .  happiness  and  joy. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you.  May  he  bless  Zion  and  his  servants  who 
preside  over  the  Church,  and  help  them  to  be  strong.  May  we  love 
and  sustain  them,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father 
for  this  opportunity  of  being  associated  with  you  and  enjoying  with 
you  this  wonderful  Conference. 

As  I  look  over  the  strength  of  the  Church  and  observe  that  all 
the  General  Authorities  whom  we  love,  revere  and  sustain  are  here, 
and  that  we  have  had  an  opportunity  of  listening  to  the  inspired  words 
as  they  have  come  from  the  lips  of  these  living  oracles  of  God,  my 
heart  has  swelled  with  gratitude.  I  feel  indeed  grateful  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  many  blessings  that  have  come  to  me  in  my  life. 

It  has  been  my  pleasure  to  labor  for  ten  and  one-half  years  in  a 
Stake  of  Zion,  and  during  that  period  I  have  learned  to  love  and  revere 
each  and  every  one  of  these  brethren  whom  we  sustain  as  our  General 
Authorities.  I  have  learned  to  respect  and  admire  those  who  stand  at 
the  head  of  the  various  auxiliary  organizations,  and  I  feel  greatly 
honored  of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  being  called  at  this  time  to  help 
carry  this  work  into  the  nations  of  the  world. 

I  am  happy  to  say  to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  bring  greet- 
ings from  the  Saints  and  missionaries  of  the  Texas  Mission.  Our 
Mission  comprises  the  States  of  Texas  and  Louisiana.  The  Mission 
covers  approximately  314,402  square  miles,  or  is  about  as  large  as 
Utah,  Idaho,  Wyoming  and  Nevada.  We  have  22,990  square  miles  more 
than  Maine,  New  Hampshire,  Vermont,  Massachusetts,  Rhode  Island, 
Connecticut,  New  Jersey,  Delaware,  Maryland,  New  York,  Pennsyl- 
vania, Virginia,  West  Virginia  and  Ohio  combined.  Within  the  State 
of  Texas  we  have  253  counties,  fifty-seven  of  which  are  larger  than 
the  State  of  Rhode  Island.  And  yet  in  that  great  field- 1  find  that 
the  people  generally  speaking  are  anxious  to  meet  the  servants  of 
Almighty  God,  and  I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  say  to 
you  that  each  and  every  missionary  laboring  in  that  field  is  enjoying 
good  health;  that  they  are  all  enjoying  the  spirit  of  their  calling;  that 
they  are  laboring  zealously  and  earnestly  to  disseminate  the  Gospel 
truths ;  and  that  the  people  are  receiving  their  message  in  a  very  fine 
way. 

I  am  happy  to  be  with  you,  and  I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  I  know  that  this  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ;  that  I  know  that  he  lives,  that  God  our  Father  actually 
exists,  and  that  we  have  been  created  in  his  image. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  and  may  he  bless  us.  May  you  in  Zion 
so  live  that  the  tourists  as  they  come  into  our  country  may  see  that  you 
are  absolutely  sincere,  that  you  are  genuine  in  the  things  that  you 
believe ;  and  then  I  am  sure  you  will  make  it  more  pleasant  and  more 
fruitful  for  the  missionaries  in  the  world.  God  bless  you  all,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 


99 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

If  Brother  J.  Golden  Kimball,  with  all  the  years  of  experience 
he  has  had  and  the  many  times  he  has  been  in  this  stland,  has  been 
"upon  the  anxious  seat"  during  the  past  two  days  of  this  Conference, 
you  may  know  to  some  extent  how  I  feel  at  the  present  moment. 

I  am  reminded,  while  standing  here  at  this  west  end  of  the 
tabernacle,  that  some  fifty-four  years  ago  I  sat  in  ithe  gallery  of  this 
house  in  the  first  seat  just  behind  where  the  clock  is  now  fastened. 
At  that  time  I  was  an  |immigrant  boy,  just  over  from  far-off  Stockholm, 
Sweden,  unable  to  speak  the  language.  The  only  words  of  the  language 
I  knew  were  "yes"  and  "no". 

Remarkable  as  it  may  seem  those  two  words  have  been  of  con- 
siderable importance  in  my  life.  It  is  a  matter  of  regret  that  I  have 
not  always  been  able  to  say  No  when  that  was  the  answer  that  may  have 
been  required,  but  I  appreciate  and  am  |thankful  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  I  have  been  able  to  say  No  as  often  as  I  have  done; 
Ithat  I  have  been  able  to  (retain  the  faith  and  the  testimony  of  the> 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  that  has  come  to  me. 

It  is  a  matter  of  still  greater  appreciation  that  every  time  when 
I  have  been  expected  to  say  Yes  I  have  been  able  to  do  so.  I  do 
remember  also  in  my  life  that  there  was  a  time  when  I  very  much 
desired  a  "yes,"  and  she  gave  it.  For  the  past  forty-six  years  we  have 
been  living  together  in  love,  affection  and  happiness. 

I  have  been  upon  two  missions,  one  in  the  Southern  States,  and 
one  in  England.  On  those  occasions  I  had  to  go  as  it  were  alone,  except 
for  the  assistance  of  my  Heavenly  Father,  which  I  need  as  much  now 
as  ever.  This  time  I  have  the  privilege  of  having  her  with  me,  and 
it  is  a  pleasure  and  a  matter  of  wonderment  to  me  the  way  she  has  taken 
to  this  work  and  this  mission. 

I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  of  accepting  the  call  that  has  come  to 
me  to  preside  over  the  Canadian  Mission.  I  recognize  the  responsi- 
bility and  I  feel  very  humble  in  seeking  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of 
those  who  have  preceded  me  in  that  work,  when  I  see  the  labor  they  have 
performed,  the  work  that  has  been  accomplished. 

i  I  cannot  enumerate  the  number  of  States  that  could  be  covered  by 
the  area  that  comprises  the  Canadian  Mission,  but  I  did  learn  this 
much,  that  if  one  should  take  the  lands  within  the  Canadian  Mission 
and  divide  them  up  between  the  men,  women  and  children  that  com- 
prise the  membership  of  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church  in  the  Canadian 
Mission,  each  one  would  be  entitled  to  700,000  acres.  From  that  you 
can  decide  whether  the  mission  is  extensive  or  whether  the  membership 
is  small.  As  I  find  it,  both  are  the  case. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work,  and  I  do  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be 
with  me  in  that  work,  that  in  the  labors  that  come  to  us  that  Spirit  may. 
ever  attend  us ;  that  a  love  for  the  children  of  God  shall  be  in  our 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


hearts;  that  we  shall  spare  no  effort,  no  labor,  no  toil,  in  getting  to 
them  the  message  of  life  and  salvation  which  has  come  into  our  hearts 
and  has  given  us  joy,  happiness  and  satisfaction. 

When  we  see  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  gathering  at 
shrines  in  other  churches,  we  regret  the  fact  that  it  seems  to  us  they 
are  as  yet  impervious  to  the  message  of  the  Gospel  that  we  have  to  give 
them,  which  would  give  them  more  truth  than  they  have  now,  more 
light  and  knowledge,  and  greater  opportunity  for  advancement,  progress, 
glory  and  salvation  in  'God's  kingdom.  But  all  we  can  do  is  to  seek 
our  Father  for  the  strength  he  can  give  unto  us  and  bend  every  energy 
to  cleanse  our  garments  of  the  blood  of  this  generation  by  neglecting 
no  opportunity  to  preach  the  Gospel  unto  them  and  give  them  the 
opportunity  to  reject  or  accept,  to  have  joy  and  gladness  come  into  their 
hearts,  or  to  have  to  wait  another  time  and  for  other  methods  by  which 
to  receive  it. 

We  pray  our  Heavenly  Father  that  he  may  inspire  the  hearts  of 
the  fathers  and  the  mothers  who  are  here  at  home  that  they  may  feel 
to  sacrifice  and  send  their  sons  and  daughters  into  the  missions,  that 
we  may  not  go  as  short-handed  as  we  are  at  the  present  time.  We  have 
at  present  fifty-two  missionaries  in  the  Canadian  Mission,  while  we 
had  eighty-two  last  year,  a  loss  of  thirty.  We  have  five  District 
Presidents  who  are  at  present  working  alone.  In  the  State  of  New 
Hampshire  we  have  but  two  missionaries.  The  field  is  great  and  the 
laborers  are  few,  and  we  depend  upon  the  brethren  and  sisters  at  home 
who  have  a  love  for  the  work  and  an  appreciation  of  the  responsibilities 
that  are  upon  us,  to  carry  the  message  of  the  Gospel  to  the  world.  May 
we  do  all  that  lies  in  our  power  to  discharge  this  responsibility. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  and  the  divinity  of  this  work, 
that  that  which  the  world  calls  "Mormonism"  is  indeed  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  restored  to  us  in  these  last  days,  which  gives  to  the  world 
an  opportunity  of  knowledge  and  understanding  and  a  better  concep- 
tion of  God  and  our  relationship  unto  him,  the  purpose  of  our  being 
here  and  what  we  may  accomplish.  May  we  be  blessed  with  his  Holy 
Spirit  to  give  unto  them  that  message,  and  to  discharge  our  duties 
and  responsibilities  in  humility.  That  God  may  give  us  strength  to  that 
end,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

It  seems  necessary  at  times  that  we  must  have  skirmishes  from 
the  enemy  to  serve  notice  on  us  that  our  forces  must  be  well  organized 
and  well  trained  if  we  hope  to  make  the  battle  of  righteousness  decisive, 
The  proceedings  of  this  Conference  so  far  have  impressed  me  with  this 
thought.  We  have  in  the  Church  an  unlimited  amount  of  defensive 
material  at  hand,  and  each  day  increases  our  store. 

At  the  Priesthood  Meeting  Saturday  evening,  President  Ivins  called 


ELDER  DAVID   A.  SMITH    .  101 

our  attention  to  an  article  published  in  the  Popular  Science  Monthly  of 
January,  1930.  His  watchful  eye  is  always  looking  for  such  informa- 
tion. The  mere  mention  of  the  ancient  American  inhabitants  will 
immediately  attract  his  attention.  He  is  always  happy  to  talk  about 
them.  His  knowledge  of  and  interest  in  them  has  been  a  source  of 
inspiration  to  me.  He  called  my  attention  to  this  article  soon  after  its 
publication.   I  quote : 

"With  records  cut  in  imperishable  stone  the  Mayas  suddenly  made  their  first 
appearance  upon  the  historical  scene  on  August  6,  613  B.  C.  On  that  remote 
day — the  oldest  date  in  American  history — they  put  into  operation  a  workable 
and  astonishingly  accurate  calendar  system  which  has  been  the  marvel  of  the 
scientific  world  since  it  was  deciphered.  Why  on  August  6,  613  B.  C.  ?  Where 
were  the  Mayas  on  August  S  ?  Had  they  lived,  tilled  the  soil,  developed  their 
wonderful  astronomy  and  admirable  architecture,  pursued  their  other  arts  and 
sciences  on  this  continent  before  they  carved  that  first  inscription?  If  so,  for 
how  long?  If  not,  whence  did  they  come?  Nobody  knows.  Step  by  step,  along 
trails  of  tangible  remains,  science  has  been  able  to  trace  the  evolution  of  the 
Egyptian  and  other  ancient  peoples  back  to  their  earliest  and  crudest  beginnings. 
But  not  so  in  the  case  of  the  Mayas.  So  far  as  any  concrete  evidence  is 
concerned,  they  might  as  well  have  dropped  down  from  Mars  or  some  other 
planet  on  the  morning  of  that  6th  day  of  August,  2,542  years  ago." 

Nephi,  the  historian  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  tells  us  that  in  the 
commencement  of  the  first  year  of  the  reign  of  Zedekiah,  king  of 
Judah,  there  came  many  prophets  to  Jerusalem  prophesying  unto  the 
people  that  they  must  repent  or  the  great  city  Jerusalem  must  be 
destroyed ;  and  that  his  father,  Lehi,  was  warned  to  take  his  family  and 
flee  into  the  wilderness.  He  also  tells  us  that  according  to  the  word 
of  the  angel,  the  God  of  Israel,  whom  men  should  trample  under  their 
feet,  would  come  in  600  years  from  the  time  his  father  left  Jerusalem. 
Nephi  stated  that  he  would  not  write  all  details,  for  said  he,  "It  matter- 
eth  not  to  me  that  I  am  particular  to  give  a  full  account  of  all  the  things 
of  my  father,  for  they  cannot  be  written  upon  these  plates,  for  I  desire 
the  room  that  I  may  write  of  the  things  of  God."  To  me  these  state- 
ments of  Nephi  answer  the  question,  "Where  were  the  Mayas  on 
August  5,  613  B.  C.  ?"  To  get  the  full  story,  one  must  read  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Recent  years  have  brought  forth  many  evidences  to  sup- 
port this  claim. 

I  have  only  a  few  minutes  in  which  to  address  you,  and  during 
this  time  I  desire,  if  the  Lord  will  help  me,  to  mention  some  of  these 
evidences.  Through  the  writings  and  traditions  of  the  ancient  Amer- 
icans, historians  and  archaeologists  have  preserved  for  us  a  most  won- 
derful story,  a  story  that  harmonizes  perfectly  with  the  story  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  I  shall  not  attempt  to  make  a  detailed  comparison. 
My  time  will  not  permit. 

Nephi  tells  us  his  record  is  written  in  the  language  of  his  father, 
which  consists  of  the  learning  of  the  Jews  and  the  language  of  the 
Egyptians.    (1  Nephi  1:1-2.)    Compare  with  the  following: 

"The  Mexicans  had  more  than  one  method  of  writing.  Not  only  did  they 
use  hieroglyphic  signs  'figurative  and  symbolic,'  but  like  the  ancient  Egyptians 
they  had  also  phonetic  signs  representing  not  a  thing,  an  action,  or  an  idea, 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


but  a  sound.  From  thence  to  the  alphabet  is  but  a  step,  or,  rather  it  is  the 
alphabet  already ;  but  they  made  far  less  use  of  the  valuable  discovery  of  phonetic 
signs  than  did  the  Egyptians.  They  confined  themselves  almost  entirely  to  the 
figurative  and  symbolic.  The  result  was  that  the  writing  had  to  be  greatly 
aided  by  the  memory."    ("History  of  Mexico,"  Claverijo,  Volume  2,  page  43.) 

Lehi  had  four  sons.  Nephi  became  the  leader.  Baldwin  in  his 
"Ancient  America,"  on  page  264,  makes  the  following  statement : 

"It  (this  civilization  of  South  America)  was  originated,  he  says,  by  a  people 
led  by  four  brothers  who  settled  in  the  valley  of  Tuzco  and  developed  a  civiliza- 
tion there  in  a  very  human  way.  The  youngest  of  these  brothers  assumed 
supreme  authority  and  became  the  first  of  a  long  line  of  sovereigns." 

"They  believed  in  God.  Human  in  form  and  feeling,  and  yet  most  divine, 
were  the  gods  and  deities  of  the  ancient  Seneca  and  other  Iroquoian  peoples. 
While  the  divine,  social,  and  political  organization  was  necessarily,  for  psycho- 
logical reasons,  a  close  reflex  or  replica  of  the  human,  and  although  both  gods  and 
man  derived  descent  from  an  original  first  parent,  yet  the  first  divine  ancestor 
was  a  self-existing  god  and  the  first  man  was  the  creature  of  one  of  these  divine 
powers."    (Annual  Report  of  the  Bureau  of  American  Ethnology,  1918.) 

"They  believed  the  soul  to  be  immortal.  They  distinguished  three  plans  for 
the  soul  when  separated  from  the  body."  ("History  of  Mexico,"  Claverijo, 
Volume  2,  page  3.) 

"They  believed  in  an  evil  spirit,  the  enemy  of  mankind,  which  they  called 
the  rational  owl,  and  said  that  he  often  appeared  to  men  for  the  purpose  of 
terrifying  or  doing  them  an  injury.  The  Mexicans,  with  all  other  civilized 
nations,  have  a  clear  tradition,  though  somewhat  corrupted  by  fable,  of  the 
creation  of  the  world,  of  the  universal  deluge,  of  the  confusion  of  tongues  and 
of  the  dispersion  of  the  people ;  and  had  actually  all  these  events  represented 
in  their  pictures."    (History  of  Mexico,"  Claverijo,  Volume  2,  page  2.) 

"The  Aztecs  believed  that  two  persons  survived  the  deluge,  a  man  and  his 
wife.  Their  heads  are  represented  in  ancient  paintings,  together  with  a  boat 
floating  on  the  water,  at  the  foot  of  the  mountain,  a  dove  is  also  depicted, 
with  the  hieroglyphical  emblem  of  language  in  his  mouth  which  he  is  distributing 
to  the  children  of  the  survivors.  The  people  held  the  further  tradition,  that  the 
boat  in  which  their  Noah  escaped,  was  filled  with  various  kinds  of  animals  and 
birds.  After  some  time  a  vulture  was  sent  out  from  it,  but  remained  feeding 
on  the  dead  bodies  of  the  giants  which  had  been  left  on  the  earth  as  the  water 
subsided.  The  little  humming  bird  was  sent  forth  and  returned  with  a  twig 
in  its  mouth."    ("Conquest  of  Mexico,"  Prescott,  page  385.) 

Speaking  of  the  pyramid  of  Cholula,  Prescott  says  : 

"Popular  tradition  in  regard  to  its  building  is  that  it  was  erected  by  a  family 
of  giants  who  had  escaped  the  great  inundation,  and  designated  to  raise  the 
building  to  the  clouds :  but  the  gods  offended  with  their  presumption,  sent  fire 
from  heaven  on  the  pyramid  and  compelled  them  to  abandon  the  attempt." 

Referring  to  Quetzalcoatl,  they  say : 

"He  it  is  that  was  born  of  the  virgin  that  is  called  Chimalmar  in  heaven. 
This  Quetzalcoatl  was  he  who  they  said  made  the  world,  because,  they  say,  that 
this  supreme  god  who  resides  in  the  most  high  heaven,  when  it  pleased  him, 
breathed  and  begot  this  Quetzalcoatl.  To  this  being  they  built  the  round  churches 
that  have  no  corners  at  all.  They  say  that  it  is  he  who  made  the  first  man. 
A  god  that  was  called  Titlalacomac,  sent  a  messenger  from  heaven  with  a  message 
for  a  virgin  that  lived  in  Tula,  that  was  called  Chimalmar.  This  virgin  conceived 
a  son  without  knowing  a  man,  the  which  was  called  Quetzalcoatl,  and  they  say 
he  is  the  god  of  the  air."    (Cortez  Mess.  Rios,  No.  3738,  page  25.) 

"Quetzalcoatl  was  among  the  Mexicans  and  all  other  nations  of  Anahuac, 
the  god  of  the  air.    He  was  said  to  have  once  been  high  priest  of  Tula.  They 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


103 


figured  him  tall,  big,  and  of  fair  complexion  with  an  open  forehead,  large  eyes, 
long  black  hair  and  a  thick  beard,  from  a  love  of  decency  he  wore  always  a  long 
robe.  He  was  thought  to  possess  the  greatest  industry  and  to  have  invented 
the  art  of  smelting  metals  and  cutting  gems.  He  was  supposed  to  have  had  the 
most  profound  wisdom  which  he  displayed  in  the  laws  which  he  left  to  mankind ; 
and  above  all  to  have  had  the  most  rigid  and  exemplary  manners.  Whenever  he 
intended  to  promulgate  a  law  in  his  kingdom,  he  ordered  a  crier  to  the  top  of 
the  mountain  near  the  city  of  Tula  whose  voice  was  heard  at  a  distance  of  300 
miles.  All  his  subjects  were  rich,  and  to  sum  up  all  in  one  word  the  Mexicans 
imagined  as  much  happiness  under  the  priesthood  of  Quetzalcoatl  as  the  Greeks 
did  under  the  reign  of  Saturn."  ("History  of  Mexico"  by  Claverijo,  Volume  2, 
page  14.    Compare  with  3  Nephi  11.) 

"Quetzalcoatl  after  being  twenty  years  in  Cholula,  resolved  to  pursue  his 
journey  to  the  imaginary  kingdoms  of  Tlapatla,  carrying  along  with  him  four 
noble  and  virtuous  youths.  In  the  maritime  province  of  Coatzacoalco  he  dismissed 
them  and  desired  them  to  assure  the  Cholulas  that  he  would  return  to  comfort 
and  direct  them."  ("History  of  Mexico,"  Claverijo,  Volume  2,  page  12.  See 
3  Nephi  18:38,  39.) 

Referring  to  the  destruction  at  the  time  of  the  death  of  the  Savior, 
we  have  the  following  statement : 

"There  had  been  a  very  great  error  among  these  natives  and  very  general 
throughout  all  this  new  state,  for  they  said  that  this  world  had  had  two  endings 
and  that  the  one  had  been  by  flood  and  tempestuous  waters,  and  that  the  world 
had  been  turned  upside  down  and  that  those  who  at  that  time  had  lived  had  been 
giants  whose  bones  are  found  in  the  broken  places,  and  thus,  they  say  also  that 
there  had  been  another  ending  of  the  world  by  wind  and  hurricane  that  were  so 
great  that  all  there  was  in  it  was  destroyed,  even  the  plants  and  trees  of  the  highest 
mountains,  and  that  the  men  of  that  time  were  seized  and  taken  up  from  the 
ground  until  they  were  lost  to  sight,  and  that  a  few  people  of  those  that  escaped 
were  converted  into  monkeys  and  lost  the  use  of  reason  and  lost  their  speech 
and  became  as  we  now  see  them.  They  believe  as  certainly  that  there  is  to  be 
another  ending  and  that  it  is  to  be  by  fire."  (Historiatlaxcola  Mexico,  1892,  page 
153.    See  3  Nephi  8.) 

"Some  Mexican  writers  are  persuaded  that  the  gospel  had  been  preached  in 
America  some  centuries  before  the  arrival  of  the  Spaniards.  The  grounds  of  that 
opinion  are  some  crosses  which  have  been  found  at  different  times  which  seem 
to  have  been  made  before  the  arrival  of  the  Spaniards ;  the  fast  of  forty  days 
observed  by  the  people  of  the  new  world ;  the  tradition  of  the  future  arrival  of 
a  strange  people  with  beards."  ("History  of  Mexico,"  Claverijo,  Volume  2, 
page  14.) 

In  referring  to  the  first  visit  of  Cortez  to  Yucatan,  Prescott  says : 

"The  houses  were  some  of  them  large  and  often  built  of  stone  and  lime.  He 
was  particularly  struck  with  the  temple  in  which  were  towers  constructed  of  the 
same  solid  material  and  rising  several  stories  in  height.  In  the  court  of  one  of 
these  he  was  amazed  by  the  sight  of  a  cross  of  stone  and  lime  about  ten  palms 
high.  It  was  the  emblem  of  the  god  of  rain.  Yet,  it  must  be  regarded  as  a  curious 
fact  that  the  cross  should  have  been  venerated  as  the  object  of  religious  worship 
both  in  the  new  world  and  in  the  regions  of  the  old  world  where  the  light  of 
Christianity  had  never  risen." 

Concerning  the  belief  of  this  people  that  their  god  Quetzalcoatl, 
when  he  departed,  promised  to  return  again  at  some  future  date, 
Prescott  makes  "the  following  statement : 

"In  a  preceding  chapter  I  have  noticed  the  popular  tradition  respecting 
Quetzalcoatl,  that  deity  with  a  fair  complexion  and  flowing  beard,  so  unlike 
the  Indian  Physiognomy,  who,  after  fulfilling  his  mission  of  benevolence  among 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Aztecs  embarked  on  the  Atlantic  Sea  for  the  mysterious  shores  of  Tlapallan. 
He  promised  on  his  departure  to  return  at  some  future  day  with  his  posterity 
and  resume  the  possession  of  his  empire.  That  day  was  looked  forward  to  with 
hope  or  with  apprehension,  according  to  the  interests  of  the  believer,  but  with 
general  confidence  throughout  the  wide  borders  of  Anahuac.  Even  after  the 
conquest,  it  still  lingered  among  the  Indian  races  'by  whom  it  was  as  fondly 
cherished,  as  the  advent  of  their  king  Sebastian  continued  to  be  by  the  Portugese, 
or  that  of  the  Messiah  by  the  Jews.  A  general  feeling  seems  to  have  prevailed 
in  the  time  of  Montezuma,  that  the  period  for  the  return  of  the  deity,  and 
the  full  accomplishment  of  his  promise,  was  near  at  hand.  This  conviction  is 
said  to  have  gained  ground  from  various  preternatural  occurrences,  reported  with 
more  or  less  detail  by  all  the  most  ancient  historians."  ("History  of  Mexico," 
Prescott,  218.) 

"At  the  arrival  of  the  Spaniards  on  the  coast  of  Anahuac,  the  Mexican  gover- 
nors of  those  coasts  were  confounded  at  the  sight  of  vessels  so  large  and  men 
of  so  strange  an  aspect  and  figure." 

Nephi  calls  our  attention  to  the  fact  that  his  people  built  large 
buildings  of  cement  and  stone.  Historians  have  preserved  for  us  the 
following  statement : 

"In  many  other  ways  the  Mayas  uncannily  anticipated  modern  methods. 
They  discovered  the  use  of  concrete  in  the  construction  of  buildings.  It  appears 
that  they  erected  wooden  forms  against  which  were  laid  blocks  of  stone,  cut 
smooth  in  front  only,  to  serve  as  a  facing.  Then  a  mixture  of  crushed  rock 
and  liquid  mortar  was  poured  into  the  space  between  the  facing  and  the  inner 
wooden  form.  This  produced  a  strong  monolithic  wall.  In  their  painting,  they 
embodied  the  principles  of  perspective  and  foreshortening,  and  even  developed 
a  certain  technique  in  presenting  a  three-quarters  view.  And  devotees  of  the 
Sunday  comics  may  be  surprised  to  learn  that  the  Mayas,  in  their  carvings  of 
human  figures  in  conversation,  originated  the  'speech-balloon'  without  which  no 
modern  'funny'  is  complete."  (New  Clues  to  the  Mayan  Riddle,  Popular  Science 
Monthly,  January,  1930.) 

"The  pyramid  is  nearly  30  feet  high  and  at  the  base  measures  about  100  by 
120  feet.  The  flattish  summit  preserves  nearly  its  original  dimensions,  having 
been  protected  by  a  firm  cement  floor  and  measures  60  by  80  feet.  Resting  on 
this  is  a  low  mass  of  earth  about  5  feet  high  having  near  the  middle  remnants 
of  a  Spanish  building,  probably  a  church.  This  massive  pile  is  composed  of  stone 
of  various  sizes  and  shapes  imbedded  in  adobe  as  in  many  of  the  north  side 
structures,  but  we  cannot  at  present  say  whether  the  facings  were  of  stone  or 
cement.  The  most  noteworthy  feature  of  this  pyramid  is  the  cement  or  concrete 
floors  of  the  terraces  which  are  so  firm  and  fixed  as  to  stand  out  in  places  far 
beyond  the  crurnbling  slope."  ("Ancient  Cities  of  Mexico,"  Holmes,  Vol.  1, 
page  275.) 

"Mortar,  made  of  lime  and  sand,  and  cement-like  mixtures  composed  of 
mortar  tempered  with  gravel,  pounded  stone,  etc.,  were  extensively  used  and 
their  durability  is  remarkable.  Numerous  floors  and  roofs  are  still  preserved." 
("Ancient  Cities  of  Mexico,"  Holmes,  Vol.  1,  page  25.) 

We  are  told  that  upon  the  arrival  of  Cortez  on  the  coast  of  Yucatan 
the  people  were  greatly  alarmed  when  they  saw  the  large  ships  with 
white  sails.  Cortez,  having  heard  of  the  tradition  of  the  people,  it  is 
said,  caused  his  cannon  to  be  fired.  This  had  the  effect  upon  the  natives 
of  making  them  believe  Quetzalcoatl,  god  of  the  air,  had  returned  as 
promised.  The  smoke  ascending  into  the  heavens,  the  roar  of  the 
cannon,  the  appearance  of  the  white  men  with  beards,  seemed  to  bear 
out  this  fact.    Claverijo  records  this  in  the  following  statement: 

"Montezuma  was  extremely  disturbed  on  hearing  their  account;  but,  to 


ELDER  DAVW   A.  SMITH 


105 


avoid  any  rash  step  in  an  affair  of  such  consequence  and  alarm,  he  held  a 
council  with  Cacamatzi,  king  of  Acolhuacan,  his  nephew,  Cuitlahuatzur,  lord  of 
Iztapalapan,  his  brother  and  other  twelve  personages  his  ordinary  counselors. 
After  a  long  conference  they  concluded  unanimously,  that  he  who  had  landed 
upon  that  shore,  with  so  great  an  army,  could  be  no  other  person  than  Quetzal- 
coatl,  the  god  of  air,  who  had  for  many  years  been  expected  in  that  country ; 
for  there  prevailed  among  those  nations,  as  we  have  already  mentioned,  an 
ancient  tradition,  that  such  a  deity,  after  having,  by  his  beneficence  and  innocence 
of  life  acquired  the  esteem  and  veneration  of  the  people  in  Tatlan,  Cholula,  and 
Onohualco  had  disappeared  to  them,  promised  to  return  after  a  certain  period 
to  govern  them  in  peace  and  render  them  happiness." 

After  a  long  conference  with  Cortez,  it  seems  the  natives  had  not 
been  favorably  impressed  with  their  doctrines  or  teachings  regarding 
God.  Montezuma  made  the  statement  that  their  god  was  similar  to 
that  described  by  the  Spaniards. 

"But,"  says  Prescott,  "there  seems  to  have  been  much  division  of  opinion 
in  that  body.  Some  were  for  resisting  the  stranger  at  once,  whether  by  fraud 
or  by  open  force.  Others  contended  that  if  they  were  supernatural  beings, 
fraud  and  force  would  be  alike  useless.  If  they  were,  as  they  pretended,  am- 
bassadors from  a  foreign  prince,  such  a  policy  would  be  cowardly  and  unjust. 
That  they  were  not  of  the  family  of  Quetzalcoatl  was,  argued  from  the  fact  that 
they  had  shown  themselves  hostile  to  his  religion,  for  tidings  of  the  proceedings 
of  the  Spaniards  in  Tabasco  it  seems  had  already  reached  the  capital.  If 
Montezuma  had  resisted  their  visit  to  his  capital  it  was  because  he  had  heard 
such  accounts  of  their  cruelty,  that  they  sent  the  lightning  to  consume  his 
people  or  crushed  them  to  pieces  under  the  hard  feet  of  the  ferocious  animals 
on  which  they  rode."    (Prescott,  page  221.) 

Yesterday,  on  these  grounds,  a  few  descendants  of  these  Lamanites 
held  a  short  service.  They  sang  and  prayed  in  English  and  their  native 
language.  Nephi  saw  in  a  vision  that  through  wickedness  his  people 
should  become  a  dark  and  loathsome  people.  He  also  saw  that  in  the  day 
when  this  book  he  was  writing  should  come  into  the  hands  of  the 
Gentiles  and  should  be  delivered  to  his  people  they  should  again  become 
a  white  and  deirghtsome  people.  These  Lamanites,  whom  we  met.  yester- 
day, are  dark  like  their  forefathers,  but  their  souls  are  white.  They 
have  faith  in  the  living  God,  that  faith  which  leads  to  eternal  life. 

In  conclusion  I  shall  read  a  statement  from  Lord  Eingsborough 
concerning  these  people.  He  gives  the  following  reasons  why  he  be- 
lieves they  are  descendants  of  the  Hebrews : 

"Because  of  their  division  into  tribes ;  their  worship  of  Jehovah ;  their 
notions  of  theocracy ;  their  belief  in  the  ministration  of  angels ;  their  language 
and  dialects ;  their  manner  of  counting  time ;  their  prophets  and  high  priests ; 
their  festivals,  fasts  and  religious  rites ;  their  daily  sacrifice ;  their  ablutions  and 
anointings ;  their  laws  of  uncleanness ;  their  abstinence  from  unclean  things ; 
their  marriages,  divorces,  punishment  of  adultery ;  their  several  punishments ; 
their  cities  of  refuge ;  their  purifications  and  ceremonies  preparatory  to  war ; 
their  ornaments;  their  manner  of  curing  the  sick;  their  burial  of  the  dead; 
their  raising  of  seed  to  a  deceased  brother ;  their  choice  of  names  adapted  to 
their  circumstances  and  the  times;  their  own  traditions,  the  accounts  of  our 
English  writers,  and  the  testimonies  which  the  Spanish  and  others  have  given 
concerning  primitive  inhabitants  of  Peru  and  Mexico." 

A  song  of  their  ministral  as  interpreted  seems  to  have  been 
prophetic.   To  us  it  is  prophetic. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Enjoy  the  fragrant  flowers  that  spring 

Around  thy  kingly  state ; 
A  day  will  come  which  shall  destroy 
Thy  present  bliss — thy  present  joy — 
When  fate  the  scepter  of  command 
Shall  wrench  from  out  thy  royal  hand 

Thy  moon  diminished  rise ; 
And  as  thy  pride  and  strength  are  quenched 
From  thy  adherents  shall  be  wrenched 

All  that  they  love  or  prize. 
When  sorrows  shall  thy  truth  attest, 

And  this  thy  throne  decline — 
The  birds  of  thy  ancestral  nest, 

The  princes  of  thy  line — 
The  mighty  of  thy  race — shall  see 
,  The  bitter  ills  of  poverty — 

And  then  shall  memory  recall 
Thy  envied  greatness,  and  on  all 

Thy  brilliant  triumphs  dwell; 
And  as  they  think  of  bygone  years 
Compared  with  present  shame,  their  tears 

Shall  to  the  ocean  swell. 

And  those,  who,  through  a  royal  band, 

Serve  thee  for  crown,  or  plume, 
Remote  from  Culhuacan's  land 

Shall  find  the  exile's  doom, 
Deprived  of  thee — their  rank  forgot, 
Misfortune  shall  o'erwhelm  their  lot. 
Then  fame  shall  grudgingly  withhold 
Her  meed  to  greatness,  which  of  old 

Blazons  and  crowns  displayed; 
The  people  shall  retain  alone 
Remembrance  of  that  triple  throne 

Which  this  our  land  obeyed." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  thrilled  when  I  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  The  more  I  study  it  the  more  I  see  in  it  of  worth.  It  is 
one  of  the  most  wonderful  evidences  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  which 
God  has  placed  in  our  hands.  I  plead  with  you  to  read  it  and  study 
it  with  a  prayerful  heart.  Read  the  last  chapter  first.  Follow  that 
instruction  to  the  letter,  and  the  Lord  will  be  with  you,  for  he  has  so 
promised. 

God  help  us  in  our  efforts  to  carry  on  in  his  great  work,  is  my 
prayer,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission. 

I  earnestly  pray  that  the  word  of  the  Lord  that  has  been  delivered 
to  us  at  this  Conference  will  take  hold  of  us.  It  seems  to  me,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  the  beauty  and  power  of  this  Gospel  are  revealed  in  the 
lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  as  much  and  probably  more  than  they  are 
revealed  in  the  books. 

Two  or  three  days  ago  I  saw  a  happy  mother  walking  along  Main 
Street.   Her  face  beamed  with  maternal  pride,  for  at  her  side,  walking 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


107 


with  her,  was  her  son,  a  manly  young  man  who  had  been  recentljy: 
honorably  released  from  filling  a  mission.  With  every  step  that  mother 
took  she  seemed  to  say,  "I  am  the  mother  of  this  boy." 

These  wonderful  mothers  in  Israel  are  not  astonished  at  the  grati- 
fying progress  their  splendid  sons  and  daughters  make  in  the  mission 
field,  because  they  know  that  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  and  the  power 
to  preach  it  were  born  with  them.  These  mothers  believe  in  their  sons 
and  daughters.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  cannot  do  very  much  with 
young  people  except  we  show  them  that  we  do  believe  in  their  integrity 
and  power  to  fill  their  missions. 

Recently  a  married  man  came  into  the  Mission.  After  he  had  labored 
for  three  or  four  months  he  received  the  sorrowful  news  that  his  only 
child,  about  two  years  old,  had  died.  The  bishop  comforted  the  grief- 
stricken  mother  and  told  her  that  if  it  would  help  her  to  bear  her  grief 
he  would  send  for  her  husband.  But  she  replied,  "No,  bishop.  Ever 
since  we  have  been  married  I  have  prayed  and  worked  and  saved  in 
order  that  my  husband  could  fill  a  mission,  and  if  he  were  to  come  home 
now  the  happiness  he  would  bring  me  would  not  equal  the  joy  that  fills 
my  heart  because  he  is  preaching  the  everlasting  Gospel." 

Such  a  spirit,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  unconquerable.  It  is  invin- 
cible. And  in  that  spirit  of  sacrifice,  devotion  and  self-denial  this  glo- 
rious Gospel  is  being  preached. 

A  Presbyterian  minister  said  a  short  time  ago :  "The  church  that 
evangelizes  America  will  be  the  dominating  factor  in  evangelizing  the 
world."  Noble  words.  Magnificent  ideal.  The  mission  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every 
nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people,  to  bring  about  the  glorious 
consummation,  when  every  knee  shall  bend  and  every  tongue  confess 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  And  how  will  the  Church  accomplish  thSs? 
"Not  by  might,  nor  by  power,  but  by  my  Spirit,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts." 

God  help  us  all  to  work  in  the  spirit  of  sacrifice  and  devotion.  Let 
us  send  out  our  splendid  sons  and  daughters  to  "wake  up  the  world  for 
the  conflict  of  justice,"  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  GAETH 

President  of  the  Czechoslovak  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  bring  you  greeting  from  the 
smallest  mission  in  the  Church,  consisting  of  thirteen  of  your  sons  and 
eleven  members.  I  am  happy  to  be  here  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this 
Conference,  happy  that  I  was  able  to  come  and  obtain  a  companion  who 
will  return  with  me,  so  that  we  can  continue  in  pur  work  in  building 
up  that  mission  of  the  Church. 

We  are  happy  to  be  able  to  labor  among  the  Slavic  people — 
among  the  Czechs  and  the  Slovaks — a  people  who  have  been  religiously 
persecuted  for  centuries.  They  first  received  Christianity  in  the  ninth 
century,  when  two  Slavs,  missionaries  of  the  Byzantine  church,  came 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  them,  and  under  the  reign  of  Wenceslas,  that  famous  Christian  king 
in  whose  honor  we  sing  one  of  our  religious  songs,  they  were  prac- 
tically Christianized.  From  that  time  on  Christianity  was  a  powerful 
factor  in  their  history.  But  so  well  did  the  predominant  church  know 
how  to  inculcate  the  ideas  of  its  religion  into  the  lives  of  those  people 
and  into  th&r  affairs  that  by  the  fourteenth  century  it  controlled  prac- 
tically one-third  of  all  the  lands,  and  most  of  the  people  were  serfs  and 
peasants  under  its  dominion. 

It  was  said  at  that  time  that  the  Archbishop  of  Prague  controlled 
one-third  of  the  Province  of  Bohemia,  and  he  had  a  large  retinue  of 
priests  and  f  ollowers  who  spent  a  good  deal  of  their  time  in  riotous 
living.  This  greatly  incited  the  feelings  of  honest  men  and  women  who 
believed  in  the  message  of  Christ. 

One  of  these  was  the  famous  reformer,  John  Huss,  who  began  to 
preach  against  the  corruption  within  the  Church.  He  gained  a  following 
among  the  common  people  and  the  movement  became  so  powerful  that 
the  attention  of  the  Popes  in  Rome — and  at  that  time  there  were  two — 
was  attracted  to  this  movement.  Huss  was  asked  to  come  to  trial  on 
the  shores  of  Lake  Constance.  His  friends  warned  him  and  told  him  not 
to  go,  but  he  had  a  motto,  the  motto  of  the  Bohemian  people  today, 
"Truth  will  conquer." 

And  so  with  two  or  three  followers  and  with  a  promise  of  safe 
passageway  from  the  king  of  the  Empire  at  that  time,  Sigismund,  he 
went  on  to  Constance.  There,  at  a  mock  trial,  he  was  condemned  to 
death  and  was  burned  at  the  stake. 

Huss  died,  but  his  spirit  lived  on  among  the  people,  and  for  two  ' 
centuries  after  that  they  were  a  Protestant  nation.  But  at  the  beginning 
of  the  Thirty  Years'  War  the  Catholic  forces  came  into  the  country 
and  at  the  battle  of  White  Mountain  the  Bohemians  were  defeated  and 
were  put  in  bondage.  There  were  more  than  two  million  Bohemians 
living  in  the  country  at  the  beginning  of  the  Thirty  Years'  War,  and 
at  the  close,  thirty  years  later,  that  number  had  dwindled  to  less  than 
one  million.  The  rest  had  been  killed  or  forced  into  exile.  For  three 
hundred  years  after  that  they  lived  in  bondage,  spiritually.  They 
were  forced  to  accept  teachings  for  which  they  had  no  desire  and  in 
which  they  did  not  believe.  But  slowly  these  things  became  a  part 
of  them,  and  the  mass  of  the  people  became  members  of  the  Catholic 
church. 

Then  the  World  War  came  and  that  people  succeeded  in  gaining 
their  freedom  and  in  establishing  religious  liberty.  The  educated 
people  began  to  break  away  from  the  church.  They  began  to  go  off 
into  the  paths  of  skepticism  and  agnosticism.  The  masses  still  remain 
in  that  church  and  are  remaining  so  probably  because  they  feel  they 
must  have  some  kind  of  a  cloak  and  that  the  cloak  they  are  wearing 
now  is  probably  as  good  as  any  they  could  get.  But  the  leaders  and  the 
educated  people  are  opposed  to  organized  religion.  They  want  nothing 
of  it,  because  the  experiences  they  have  had  with  organized  religion  have 
taught  them  that  it  has  meant  bondage  to  them. 

We  are  laboring  among  the  more  educated  people  of  the  country, 


ELDER  ARTHUR  GAETH 


109 


a  skeptical  people  who  weigh  everything  and  who  are  paying  attention 
to  teachings  and  investigating  them  because  they  are  interested  in  the 
development  of  their  people  and  their  country  as  probably  no  other 
leaders  in  Europe  are  today.  They  have  gained  their  freedom.  The 
spirit  of  liberty  permeates  their  souls  and  they  work  and  slave  and  ac- 
complish. That  is  why  the  country  of  Czechoslovakia  has  made  more 
progress  in  re-establishing  and  reconstructing  since  the  war  than  any 
other  country  that  participated  in  the  war,  except  probably  France. 

We  are  proud  to  be  engaged  in  service  among  those  people.  We 
are  thankful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  we  can  work  there,  and 
we  feel  that  the  time  will  come  when  the  teachings  of  the  Church, 
because  they  are  practical  and  can  be  applied  in  every  day  life,  will 
take  hold  among  those  people  and  we  will  be  able  to  bring  many  of 
them  into  the  fold  of  the  Church.  We  are  only  a  small  group,  fourteen 
of  us  laboring  among  fourteen  million  seven  hundred  and  twenty-five 
thousand  people.  We  feel  that  we  have  a  great  mission  and  that  we 
need  help.  (We  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  you  here  at  home  so  that  you 
may  be  able  to  send  your  sons  and  daughters  out  into  the  world  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  where  they  can  gain  the  experiences  so  valuable  to 
life,  and  at  the  same  time  preach  the  true  and  everlasting  Gospel  to  the 
many  nations  of  the  world  who  are  hungering  for  truth. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  and  help  you,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  too  rejoice  and  am  grateful  with  all 
my  heart  for  the  privilege  and  honor  that  has  come  to  me  as  a  mission- 
ary of  this  great  Church,  and  for  the  opportunity  of  bearing  my 
testimony  along  with  those  already  borne  at  this  Conference. 

In  the  North  Central  States  Mission  we  are  well,  and  busy,  and 
happy  in  our  work,  and  the  Lord  is  blessing  our  efforts.  Last  year, 
despite  its  many  handicaps,  we  had  more  baptisms,  more  tithing  paid, 
and  more  people  paying  tithing  than  ever  before  in  tour  history.  This 
year  (1931),  notwithstanding  a  reduction  of  more  than  one-third  (from 
SO  to  50)  in  our  missionary  force,  !we  ifeel  and  hope  results  may  be 
even  better.  We  are  proud  of  our  missionaries  and  of  our  Saints  and 
friends.  All  that  we  need  is  more  of  each.  There  are  many  good  people 
in  the  world.  Given  more  missionaries,  for  whom  we  hope  and  pray, 
we  shall  strive  earnestly  to  find  them,  and  'with  the  help  of  the  Lord, 
to  teach  them  the  truth. 

A  book  has  been  written  by  Bertrand  Russell  and  others  entitled, 
"If  I  had  ibut  one  sermon  to  preach."  If  we  of  the  North  Central 
States  Mission  had  but  one  sermon  to  preach  to  the  world  it  would 
be  an  humble  testimony  that  God  lives,  the  same  wise,  kind  Heavenly 
Father,  who  in  the  beginning  "Created  man  in  his  image,"  and  who 
continues  to  be  interested  in  all  his  children;  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lives,  a  resurrected,  immortalized,  glorified  member  of  the  Godhead; 
that  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet  of  this  dispensation,  was  privileged  to 
converse  with  these  two  heavenly  personages,  Father  and  Son,  and  of 
them  was  instructed  in  the  manner  of  the  organization  of  the  only 
authorized  Church  of  Christ  upon  the  earth  today;  that  this  is  that 
Church;  that  in  it,  under  the  administration  of  President  Heber  J. 
'Grant,  seventh  in  succession  from  the  Prophet  Joseph,  are  held  and 
exercised  all  the  keys  of  authority  in  the  priesthood  that  characterized  it 
in  the  early  days. 

Such,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  our  testimony  to  the  world.  And 
if,  as  upon  one  occasion  long  ago,  some  should  be  "pricked  in  their 
hearts"  and  should  isay,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?"  the 
answer  is  ever  the  same: 

"Repent  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  For 
this  promise  is  unto  you,  and  unto  your  children,  and  to  all  they  that  are  alar  off, 
even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call."  (Acts  2:37-39). 

If  we  could  preach  but  once  to  the  youth  of  Zion  it  would  be, 
in  humble  adaptation  of  the  third,  great  commandment:  "Thou  shalt 
not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  IN  VAIN."  In  vain?  What 
do  we  mean — In  vain? 

Consider  for  a  moment  the  splendid  oath  and  promise  of  the  Boy 
ScoUt : 

"On  my  honor  I  will  do  my  best  to  do  my  duty  to  God  and  to  my  country, 
and  to  obey  the  Scout  Law;  to  help  other  people  at  all  times;  and  to  keep 
myself  physically  strong,  mentally  awake,  and  morally  straight." 

Suppose  the  Boy  Scout,  having  given  this  splendid  commitment 
to  service,  should  go  his  way  forgetful  that  "A  scout  is  Trustworthy, 
Loyal,  Helpful,  Friendly,  Courteous,  Kind,  Obedient,  Cheerful,  Thrifty, 
Brave,  Clean  and  Reverent."  He  shall  have  taken  the  Boy  Scout  Oath 
IN  VAIN,  shall  he  not}?  ; 

Let  us  not,  my  young  brethren  and  sisters  in  particular,  take  the 
name  of  the  Lord  our  God,  in  vain.  Who  cares  to  become  a  deacon, 
a  teacher,  a  priest,  an  auxiliary  worker,  or  a  missionary  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  IN  VAIN  ?  Nobody.  Last  of 
all  the  youth  of  this  day  and  age  in  the  Church. 

"O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him  with  all 
your  heart,  might,  mind,  and  strength,  that  ye  be  found  blameless  before  God 
at  the  last  day." 

Such,  my  young  friends,  the  vision  toward  which  our  fathers  wrought; 

Such  their  proud  hope  and  faith  in  us,  that  we  should  carry  on, 

Nor  carry  on  IN  VAIN,  the  work  by  them  begun. 

So  shall  we  prove  ourselves  in  very  deed  their  sons. 

So  shall  we  prove  to  skeptic  friends,  "This  is  the  Place;" 

This  is  his  Church;  and  this  the  greatest  day, 

(Though  perhaps  also  the  most  critical  and  dangerous  of  days), 

That  ever  yet  has  dawned. 

God  bless  and  keep  the  youth  of  Israel.    God  bless  and  magnify 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


111 


his  missionaries  in  every  land  and  clime.  God  bless  and  save  the  world, 
through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 

Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Come,  All  Ye  Sons  of  Zion." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  )by  Elder  Joseph  F.  Merrill. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  (Closing  session  of  the  One  Hundred   and   First  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  convened  at  2  o'clock  Monday,  April  6th. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 

Elder  George  H.  Brimhall  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  hymn,  "The  Time  is  Far  Spent,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Never  in  my  life  have  I  felt  more  humble  and  dependent  upon 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  than  I  do  at  this  time.  I  was  just  as  positive 
as  of  anything  in  the  world  that  I  would  be  the  first  speaker  this  after- 
noon. Something  seemed  to  whisper  that  to  my  soul.  You  brethren 
who  have  never  had  this  experience  will  probably  never  know  with  what 
feelings  of  timidity  a  man  stands  in  the  presence  of  these  holy  men  to 
edify  those  present  and  say  the  things  that  should  be  said  to  this  great 
body  of  priesthood,  servants  of  the  Lord. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  great  burden  of  this  Conference  has  been 
the  burden  that  is  incumbent  upon  us  as  Elders  in  Israel,  namely,  the 
proclaiming  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the  world.  As  we  were 
singing  the  last  hymn,  my  mind  reverted  to  a  revelation  given  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  to  Peter  Whitmer,  June,  1829.  I  should  like  to 
read  it. 

"Hearken,  my  servant  Peter,  and  listen  to  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  your 
Lord  and  your  Redeemer. 

"For  behold,  I  speak  unto  you  with  sharpness  and  with  power,  for  mine 
arm  is  over  all  the  earth. 

"And  I  will  tell  you  that  which  no  man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee  alone — 

"For  many  times  you  have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be 
of  most  worth  unto  you. 

"Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words  which 
I  have  given  unto  you  according  to  my  commandments. 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  most 
worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you  may 
bring  souls  unto  me  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father." 

I  am  honored,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in'  being  called  to  preside 
over  the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  one  of  the  grandest  missions  of 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  Church.  Millions  of  people  live  within  the  boundaries  of  this  great 
mission.  Their  attitude  towards  this  Church  is  changing  rapidly.  Hun- 
dreds of  them  are  seeking  for  the  truth.  They  are  reading  the  truth 
.as  your  sons  and  daughters  are  delivering  it  to  them  from  day  to  day, 
in  the  various  parts  of  that  mission,  so  far  as  our  force  will  permit  us 
to  visit.  Wle  are  limited  in  man  power  and  in  the  strength  of  our  women 
who  have  been  doing  missionary  work  and  are  doing  missionary  work 
there  today,  as  is  no  doubt  the  case  in  all  missions.  Obviating  that 
handicap  we  are  calling  a  number  of  our  local  brethren  and  sisters  within 
the  immediate  confines  of  the  mission,  to  the  service,  and  they  are 
spending  some  time — some  of  them  part  of  their  time,  others  all  of 
their  time — and  thus  helping  in  overcoming  the  great  shortage  of 
missionaries  today. 

I  realize  the  sacrifice  that  you  parents  are  making.  I  appreciate 
the  hard  times  that  we  are  going  through  financially ;  yet  I  realize  too 
that  God  can  overrule  all  things  for  the  good  of  his  people  and  for 
the  promulgating  of  his  work. 

Not  long  ago  one  of  the  Elders  laboring  in  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission  was  worried  over  financial  conditions  at  home,  although  his 
father  had  never  mentioned  finances  to  him.  Yet,  away  up  in  Alaska 
he  felt  that  all  was  not  well.  So,  one  evening  he  went  out  by  himself 
to  pray  and  he  asked  the  Lord  to  remove  this  feeling  from  him  that  he 
might  know  of  conditions  at  home.  To  his  astonishment,  that  night 
when  he  retired  a  vision  as  it  were  came  to  him.  Just  as  plain  as  the 
noonday  sun  he  saw  his  good  father  going  away  from  home  and  in 
seclusion  kneeling  in  prayer,  telling  the  Lord  that  he  had  a  son  in  the 
mission  field  and  his  finances  were  such  that  he  was  worried  as  to 
whether  he  could  retain  him  there  longer  or  not ;  and  he  asked  that 
this  condition  be  overruled  if  it  were  the  Lord's  will. 

The  next  morning  the  son  wrote  a  letter  to  his  father  and  outlined 
in  detail  that  which  he  had  seen  in  vision.  A  few  weeks  later  came  a 
letter  to  the  son,  and  he  in  turn  sent  it  to  me.  That  good  father  said : 
"Son,  the  very  night  that  you  had  that  vision,  I  was  out  there  in 
seclusion  away  from  home,  praying,  telling  my  troubles  to  the  Lord, 
and  he  heard  me.  The  next  day  as  I  went  along  the  street  I  met  a  man, 
not  a  member  of  the  Church,  who  voluntarily  asked  me  if  I  did  not 
need  a  little  money,  that  he  had  some  with  which  he  could  help  me. 
His  letter  said,  "Son,  you  remain  on  your  mission  as  long  as  you 
are  needed." 

These  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  are  happening  to  the  mis- 
sionaries in  the  Northwestern  States.  They  are  kind,  sweet,  honest, 
willing  young  men  and  women.  They  are  acquitting  themselves  ad- 
mirably of  the  responsibilities  that  rest  upon  them. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Oh,  may  he  bless  these 
men  who  preside  over  Israel!  May  we,  brethren  and  sisters,  stand 
back  of  them,  every  man  and  every  woman,  that  Zion  may  grow 
through  the  united  efforts  and  support  we  give  these  noble  servants 
of  God.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  I  know  this  is  God's  work.  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  this  work  will  never  be  overthrown 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


113 


nor  given  to  another  people.  This  I  do  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  spirit  of  this  Conference  I  am  sure  will 
extend  to  the  extreme  portions  of  the  world,  farther  perhaps  than 
missionaries  or  the  representatives  of  the  Church  may  be  able  to  travel. 

While  all  these  glorious  truths  have  been  presented  for  our  con- 
sideration I  have  thought  how  wonderful  that  God,  the  great 
Creator,  the  Engineer,  the  Architect,  knew  the  material  from  which 
he  would  create  this  earth,  and  the  material  from  which  he  would 
create  his  sons  and  -daughters  to  become  inhabitants  upon  this  earth. 
He  knew  Adam  and  selected  him  as  the  progenitor  of  the  human  race. 
Our  Father  knew  Abraham  and  selected  him  to  be  the  father  of  the 
faithful.  He  knew  Noah  and  placed  him  as  the  replenisher  of  the 
human  race  after  the  deluge.  He  knew  Moses  and  selected  him  as  the 
great  law-giver.  He  knew  the  Son  of  God  as  the  Savior  of  the  world, 
as  his  Beloved  Son,  upon  whom  he  could  place  the  responsibility  for 
the  redemption,  salvation  and  exaltation  of  the  inhabitants  of  the  world. 

God  knew  the  prophets  and  apostles,  the  inventors  and  discoverers, 
and  he  called  them  each  in  his  day  and  time.  God  knew  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  he  knew  you  and  me,  and  this  is  proven  by  the  fact 
that  we  are  here. 

To  Latter-day  Saints  it  isn't  so  much  a  matter  of  chronology — 
when  these  goodly  men  and  servants  came  or  when  these  things  oc- 
curred— as  it  is  to  know  the  actuality  of  them  and  to  know  that  they 
did  occur.  These  men  came  in  their  dispensations  and  accomplished 
their  work. 

The  Northern  States  Mission  is  doing  its  work  as  creditably  as 
it  is  within  the  power  of  the  humble  servants  of  the  Lord  who  labor 
there  to  do  it.  The  incident  related  by  Brother  Sloan  might  be  dupli- 
cated in  the  experiences  within  our  observation,  but  it  was  a  goodly 
mother  instead  of  a  father  who  knew  her  son  was  upon  the  operation 
table — he  needed  her.  She  prayed  and  she  heard  his  voice  'calling 
her,  and  he  heard  his  mother's  voice.  In  checking  the  time  both 
mother  and  son  knew  of  the  prayers  of  each  other  and  that  they  could 
be  together  in  spirit  although  three  thousand  miles  apart. 

We  have  77  organized  and  partially  organized  Branch  and 
District  Sunday  Schools,  in  which  there  are  enrolled  4,845  out  of 
a  membership  of  7,000  in  the  mission.  We  have  twenty-three 
Relief  Societies  over  which  Sister  Pond  presides,  and  nearly  one 
hundred  per  cent  of  our,  good  sisters  are  maintaining  their  Relief 
Society  Magazine  in  which  the  lessons  for  the  mothers  are  presented. 
Sixteen  thriving  Mutual  Improvement  Associations,  with  an  enrollment 
of  741,  participated  recently  in  contest  work  in  a  way  that  would  be 
creditable  to  any  of  the  Wards  or  Stakes  of  Zion.  We  have  23  Neigh- 
borhood Primaries  taught  by  local  people  and  our  sister  missionaries. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  bear  to  you  the  testimony  of  my  heart  of  the  truthfulness  and 
beauty  of  the  Gospel  of  ijesus  Christ  that  has  been  so  forcefully 
preached  to  us  during  the  sessions  of  this  Conference;  and  say  to  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  your  missionary  sons  and  daughters  are 
doing  true,  active  missionary  work  and  enjoying  the  spirit  and  calling 
of  their  missions. 

May  our  Father's  blessings  be  upon  the  leadership  of  this  great 
work,  those  that  we,  hold  in  respectful  remembrance  of  the  past,  and 
the  Presidency  and  Apostles  and  other  presiding  authorities  who  guide 
and  direct  his  work  today,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Ihis  Conference  has  been  a  very  profitable  one  for  me.  I  have 
listened  with  deep  interest  to  the  speakers  and  enjoyed  the  beautiful 
music.  I  hope  that  I  may  be  able  to  recall  many  of  the  things  that  the 
brethren  have  said,  so  that  I  may  use  them  in  His  service.  We  have 
been  admonished  and  advised  regarding  our  duties  and  responsibilities, 
and  no  doubt  we  shall  return  home  determined  to  take  advantage  of 
all  this  counsel,  so  that  we  may  become  more  firmly  established  in  the 
Church. 

Many  testimonies  have  been  given  to  me.  I  have  a  testimony  of 
the  Gospel.  I  have  been  blessed  with  the  knowledge  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord;  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world;  that 
he  came  in  the  meridian  of  time  to  redeem  us  from  the  fall  of  Adam  and 
laid  down  a  plan  of  redemption  through  which  we  may  obtain  eternal 
life.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God ;  that  he 
came  and  established  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 

I  deeply  appreciate  my  brethren  and  sisters  with  whom  I  labor.  I 
appreciate  my  presiding  brethren,  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  my  Presiding  Bishop, 
Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  and  his  counselor,  Bishop  David  A.  Smith,  both 
of  whom  labor  diligently.  No  one  could  labor  harder  it  seems  to  me, 
than  does  our  Presiding  Bishop,  for  the  welfare  of  the  youth  of  Zion.  He 
utilizes  his  time,  talents  and  energy  for  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom 
of  God,  giving  special  attention  to  the  Aaronic  priesthood.  I  sincerely 
appreciate  the  feeling  of  mutual  helpfulness  and  confidence  of  my 
brethren  in  the  Stakes  and  Wards,  particularly  the  bishoprics,  for  upon 
them  rests  so  much  of  the  labor  of  developing  the  youth  of  vZion,  ad- 
ministering in  temporal  things,  receiving  and  handling  the  tithes  and 
offerings,  caring  for  the  poor,  and  many  other  duties  connected  with 
their  calling.  I  also  appreciate  the  close  association  with  the  Relief 
Society.  Sixty-five  thousand  devoted  women,  presided  over  by  an  able 
presidency,  have  zealously  labored  during  the  past  winter  to  relieve 
suffering  and  poverty  in  all  of  its  phases.  President  Grant  said  that 
large  sums  have  been  paid  out  for  charity.   Some  people  say  we  waste  it. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


115 


I  hardly  think  so.  ,  We  treat  our  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  tese 
fortunate  than  ourselves,  as  our  neighbors,  in  harmony  with  the  spirit 
of  the  Gospel. 

The  subject1  of  tithing  is  very  near  to  my  heart.  I  have  been  de- 
lighted during  this  Conference  to  hear  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  and 
some  of  the  other  brethren  discuss  this  principle.  I  feel  that  it  is  im- 
portant for  us  to  get  into  the  habit  of  right  thinking  along  this  line.  We 
are  flooded  with  magazines  and  newspapers,  so  much  that  many  of 
us  spend  a  great  deal  of  our  time  in  reading  and  thinking  superficially. 
We  should  train  ourselves  to  think  straight,  and  when  we  think  straight 
we  shall  be  in  harmony  with  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  world 
is  passing  through  a  crisis.  How  long  it  will  last  none  of  us  knows.  The 
time  of  the  coming  of  the  Savior  is  near  at  hand.  Whether  we  shall 
entirely  recover  from  this  serious  business  depression,  we  shall  have 
to  leave  in  the  hands  of  our  Father.  But  I  appeal  to  you  not  to  let 
these  hard  times  and  misfortunes  be  an  excuse  to  neglect  the  payment 
of  your  tithes  and  offerings.  We  must  discipline  ourselves  to  meet 
these  situations  and  in  spite  of  our  misfortunes  to  pay  the  Lord  hfe 
one-tenth  first  and  trust  that  his  blessings  may  rest  upon  the  90%  left. 

In  one  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  a  few  years  ago,  after  I  had  spoken  on 
the  subject  of  tithing,  a  group  of  young  men  waited  for  me  after  the 
meeting  and  asked,  "How  are  we  to  know  how  much  tithing  to  pay  when 
we  don't  know  what  our  living  expenses  will  be?"  ,  I  said,  "If  you  wait 
to  pay  all  your  living  expenses  first,  you  may  then  not  have  enough 
left  with  which  to  pay  tithing." 

Now,  my  brethren,  when  the  Lord  gives  us  means,  monthly  or  other- 
wise, why  not  sit  down  with  our  conscience,  alone  if  necessary,!  and 
find  out  on  the  first  or  last  day  of  each  month  what  the  Lord  has  given 
us,  and  then  and  there  tithe  it  and  not  wait  until  the  end  of  the  year 
or  the  end  of  the  season.  Give  the  Lord  an  opportunity  to  bless  the 
90%.  This  is  what  I  call  straight  thinking  in  relation  to  the  law  of 
tithing. 

What  are  we  doing  with  the  150,000  young  men  and  women  in  this 
Church  between  the  ages  of  12  and  20?  Are  we,  as  parents,  teaching 
these  children  the  importance  of  the  law  of  tithing  ?  Are  we  impressing 
upon  them  that  this  is  a  fundamental  principle  of  the  Gospel ;  that  it  will 
add  to  their  joy  and  satisfaction  in  the  Church;  that  the  payment  of 
tithing  will  give  them  greater  faith  and  greater  interest  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord?  We  should  teach  our  children  from  the  time  they  ajre 
baptized  that  whatever  the  Lord  gives  them,  whether  dimes  or  dollars, 
it  should  be  tithed  monthly.  The  bishops  in  this  Church  are  happy 
and  glad  to  see  these  young  people  come  with  their  tithes  and 
offerings.  When  a  boy  is  ordained  to  the  office  of  a  deacon,  he  should 
be  taught  to  obey  this  important  law,  so  that  it  will  become  a  habit1 
of  his  life.  Good  habits  fixed  in  childhood  or  early  youth  are  dominating 
factors  of  the  lives  of  men  and  women.  We  owe  it  to  the  Church  to 
teach  them  this  principle. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  great  prophet  and  statesman,  Joshua,  succeeded  Moses.  The 
book  of  Joshua  records  that  after  the  land  of  promise  had  been  occupied 
and  when  Joshua  had  become  old,  he  called  upon  the  chiefs  of  the  tribes 
of  Israel  to  meet  him  in  the  land  now  known  as  Samaria.  There,  on  the 
hillside,  he  recited  to  them  his  labors  and  what  the  Lord  had  done  for 
the  Israelites  to  bring  them  into  that  goodly  land.  He  called  attention 
to  the  worshiping  of  false  gods,  and  then  closed  with  this  statement: 

"Now  therefore  fear  the  Lord  and  serve  jhim  in  sincerity  and  in  truth :  *  *  * 
Choose  you  this  day  whom  ye  will  serve :  *  *  *  but  as  for  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord." 

Now,  brethren,  heads  of  households,  give  heed  to  your  families, 
and  may  this  counsel  of  Joshua  be  our  motto.  Let  us  serve  the  Lord. 
May  we  remember  him  with  our  tithes. 

I  pray  that  we  may  grow  in  spirituality  and  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  certainly  feel  my  weakness  this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and 
'sisters,  in  attempting  to  report  the  activities  of  the  missionaries  in  the 
East  Central  States  Mission. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having  the  privilege  of  laboring  with  your 
sons  and  daughters  and  your  husbands  who  are  engaged  in  the  work  of 
jthe  Lord  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard.  It  is  pleasing  to  me 
to  meet  with  those  who  have  returned  from  the  mission  field  and 
hear  them  express  themselves  to  the  effect  that  they  would  like  to  be 
back  in  the  service  of  the  Lord  again ;  showing  that  they  had  been 
imbued  with  the  spirit  of  their  work  and  that  they  still  have  that 
spirit  with  them. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  the  Bishops  of  Wards  and  to  the  Presidents 
of  Stakes  of  Zion  where  these  young  men  and  young  women  reside 
that  I  would  appreciate  it  very  much  if  you  would  find  something  for 
them  to  do  to  keep  them  active  in  the  work,  because  they  are  active 
while  in  the  mission  field  and  have  endeavored  to  do  their  duty  to  the 
best  of  their  ability. 

About  a  year  ago  a  message  came  from  the  mother  of  one  of  our 
missionaries,  who  is  still  laboring  in  the  field,  to  the  effect  that  his 
father  had  passed  from  this  life.  In  that  message  the  mother  expressed 
the  wish  that  her  son  remain  in  the  field  and  complete  his  mission,  and 
he  chose  to  do  so.  Just  a  short  time  ago,  two  years,  which  is  the 
usual  term  of  missionary  service,  had  passed,  and  learning  of  the  finan- 
cial condition  at  his  home,  I  wrote  to  this  young  Elder  and  told  him  that 
his  labors  were  acceptable"  to  the  Lord,  and  that  he  would  be  honorably 
released,  to  return  home  so  as  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  Conference. 
In  answer  to  my  letter  he  said : 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


117 


"President,  I  have  been  very  careful  with  my  means.  I  have  practiced  economy 
and  have  saved  enough  to  maintain  me  for  another  two  months,  or  more.  While 
I  do  not  like  to  suggest  it,  if  it  would  be  permissible  and  agreeable  I  would 
like  to  remain  for  at  least  that  length  of  time." 

It  is  needless  for  me  to  say  that  that  Elder  is  still  in  the  field.  He 
has  work  ahead  of  him  and  prospects  that  he  wants  to  see  consummated 
before  he  returns  to  his  home. 

Just  two  or  three  weeks  ago  a  message  came  from  President  Grant 
and  his  counselors  to  the  effect  that  the  father  of  one  of  our  very  able 
lady  missionaries  had  met  with  a  serious  accident  and  was  taken  from 
this  life.  The  message  was  forwarded  to  her.  Her  companions  rallied 
to. her  support,  as  did  also  the  good  Saints  in  that  district,  and  com- 
forted her.  I  received  a  letter  in  answer  to  one  that  I  wrote  to  her  just 
a  few  days  afterwards  in  which  she  too  expressed  herself  as  wanting 
to  remain  and  complete  her  mission  before  returning  home.  She  is 
still  in  the  mission  field. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  fills  my  heart  with  thanksgiving  when 
-I  see  the  faith  that  is  exhibited  by  the  young  men  and  young  women 
who  go  into  the  mission  field.  They  are  interested  in  the  work.  They 
want  to  accomplish  their  work  in  a  way  that  the  Lord  will  be  pleased 
with  their  efforts,  and  I  am  sure  that  they  are  succeeding. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  encourage  the  young  people  to  prepare 
themselves  for  the  mission  field,  for  as  President  Nibley  said  yesterday, 
"there  is  a  famine  in  the  land,  not  for  bread  nor  a  thirst  for  water, 
but  for  hearing  the  words  of  the  Lord."  The  harvest  is  great  and  the 
laborers  are  few ;  the  time  is  far  spent  and  there  is  little  remaining. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  with  every  needful  blessing.  May  he 
bless  President  Grant  and  his  counselors,  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve 
and  all  those  who  are  engaged  in  this  great  latter-day  work.  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  have  rejoiced,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  very  greatly  at  the 
speeches  and  the  music  we  have  heard  at  this  Conference.  We  have 
been  truly  fed  the  bread  of  life  and  by  the  spirit  thereof,  and  I  have 
felt  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  gift  that  each  of  our  brethren  has  possessed 
at  this  Conference  in  being  able  to  give  us  the  measure  of  the  word 
of  the  Lord  that  has  been  given. 

It  was  a  strong  indictment  against  intemperance  that  was  read  at 
one  of  the  sessions,  and  yet  after  experience  in  each  of  the  three  great 
departments  of  government  I  am  persuaded  that  that  indictment  is  not 
overdrawn.  I  have  in  memory  the  picture  of  a  man  indicted  and- 
convicted  of  murder  being  arraigned  for  the  judgment  of  the  court, 
and  when  I  asked  him  if  he  had  any  legal  cause  to  show  why  the 
sentence  of  the  court  should  not  be  pronounced  upon  him,  in  a  solemn 
and  dramatic  manner  which  I  shall  always  remember,  he  declared 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  he  had  killed  the  best  friend  he  had  on  earth  and  did  not  know  it 
until  he  was  awakened  the  next  morning  from  his  drunken  slumbers. 
He  appeared  to  be  sincere.  A  little  later  he  had  to  be  committed  to 
the  insane  asylum,  he  worried  so  over  the  fact  that  he  had  taken  the 
life  of  his  dear  friend  and  left  a  widow  and  children  to  mourn  the  loss  of 
a  husband  and  a  father  who  was  providing  for  them. 

I  think  that  what  we  need  in  this  country  is  more  regard  for* 
law,  constitutional  law  and  laws  passed  in  accordance  with  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States.  I  frequently  have  had  an  opportunity  to 
speak  on  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  a  divinely  inspired 
instrument,  and  have  brought  forward  the  testimony  of  such  dis- 
interested witnesses  as  William  E.  Gladstone,  Premier  of  England,  and 
Sir  Thomas  Bryce,  the  author  of  the  monumental  work  on- American 
.  Commonwealths. 

There  are  other  great  Americans  who  enjoyed  inspiration  in 
framing  the  institutions  of  this  country,  and  in  saying  this  I  am  not 
denying  the  room  for  inspiration  in  the  formation  and  guidance  of 
other  countries.  We  pray  for  their  guidance  and  the  guidance  of 
the  officials  of  not  only  our  own  nation  here  in  America  hut  the  rulers 
of  other  nations.  I  have  thought  sometimes  we  have  neglected  some 
of  those  great  characters  who  were  instrumental  in  shaping  the  founda- 
tions of  our  country  and  those  who  have  made  comments  upon  them. 
I  know  that  we  are  familiar  with  the  work  that  'Franklin,  Jefferson 
and  others  did  in  connection  with  the  framing  of  the  Constitution  of 
our  country,  but  we  are  less  familiar  with  the  work  that  the  great 
Chief  Justice  John  Marshall  did.  The  formation  of  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  is  really  spoken  of  as  the  greatest  single  achievement 
of  the  eighteenth  century.  There  was  that  about  it  that  inspired 
Daniel  Webster  to  love  it,  "to  have  a  profound  passion  for  it,"  "to 
cherish  it'  day  and  night,"  "to  live  on  its  healthful  saving  influence,"  and 
"to  trust  never  to  cease  to  heed  it  until  he  should  go  to  the  grave  of  his 
fathers,"  "to  earnestly  desire  not  to  outlive  it." 

Judge  Marshall  of  Wisconsin  in  the  case  of  Borgnis  vs.  Falk 
County,  in  a  decision  written  by  him  for  the  Supreme  Court  of  Wis- 
consin, said: 

"At  no  period  has  appreciation  of  the  great  work  of  the  fathers  been  more 
important  than  now.  We  need  to  sit  anew  at  their  feet,  revive  knowledge  that 
the  result  was  wrought  by  a  body  of  men,  representatives  of  the  great  seat  of 
learning  of  the  English  speaking  races  of  two  hemispheres,  and  otherwise  men 
of  broad  exjperience,  many  of  whom  had  been  students  of  all  federal  govern- 
ments of  all  prior  ages  in  preparation  for  the  special  task — as  the  historian 
declared,  'the  goodliest  fellowship  of  lawgivers  whereof  this  world  has  record,' 
a  body  dominated  by  specialists,  inspired  by  ennobling  love  for  their  fellow-men 
and  the  thought  that  they  wrought,  not  for  their  age  alone,  but  for  the  ages 
to  come,  and  so  sought  to  avoid  the  infirmities  of  previous  systems  of  govern- 
ment by  the  people,  by  carefully  providing  that  no  change  in  letter  or  spirit  should 
occur  except  in  a  particular  and  most  deliberate  and  conservative  way." 

John  Marshall,  the  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


119 


United  States,  performed  an  inspired  work  in  the  framing  of  the  Con- 
stitution of  our  country. 

You  read  the  101st  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I 
will  not  take  time  to  read  it  here,  the  seventy-ninth  and  eightieth 
verses,  and  then  consider  the  work  that  Marshall  did  in  connection 
with  the  interpretation  of  this  great  document. 

Marshall  was  not  only  a  great  man  in  his  own  age  and  country, 
but  he  would  be  considered  a  great  man  in  any  age  and  clime.  Webster, 
in  1814,  in  a  letter  to  his  brother  Ezekiel,  said : 

"There  is  no  man  in  the  court  who  strikes  me  like  Marshall.  I  have  never 
seen  a  man  of  whose  intellect  I  had  a  higher  opinion." 

Again  Webster  said  of  him  that  if  there  was  ever  a  human  being 
who  did  not  argue  from  the  obscure  to  the  more  obscure  it  certainly 
was  Chief  'Justice  Marshall. 

George  R.  Peck  of  the  Chicago  bar  said  of  'Marshall : 

"Take  him  for  all  in  all,  he  was  the  greatest  judge  that  ever  lived.  By 
the  common  and  unfettered  judgment  of  the  bar,  lay  the  unanimous  voice  of 
statesmen,  jurists  aind  scholars.  He  was  the  oracle  of  our  Constitutional  law, 
the  interpreter,  the  expounder  and  in  a  certain  sense  the  maker  of  the  Con- 
stitution. *  *  *  Our  profession  looks  upon  him  with  a  somewhat  idolatrous 
feeling,  but  I  do  not  think  it  excessive.  When  we  consider  what  might  have 
been  our  fate  if  another  and  not  he  had  occupied  that  great  seat  we  may  well 
believe  that  providence  watched  over  the  republic." 

Justice  Joseph  Story,  a  very  great  justice  of  that  Supreme  Court 
of  the  United  States,  who  knew  Marshall  very  well  spoke  of  him  and 
said : 

"His  life  speaks  its  own  best  eulogy.  It  had  such  a  simplicity,  purity, 
consistency  and  harmony  that  the  narrative  of  the  events  in  their  natural  order 
invests  it  with  an  attraction  which  art  need  not  seek  to  heighten  and  friendship 
may  well  be  content  to  leave  with  its  original  coloring.  He  learned  to  love 
the  Union  with  a  supreme  unconquerable  love,  a  love  which  was  never  cooled  by 
neglect  or  alienated  by  disappointment;  a  love  which  survived  the  trials  of 
adversity;  and  still  more  dangerous  trials  of  prosperity;  a  love  which  clung 
more  closely  to  its  object  as  it  seemed  less  dear  or  less  valuable  in  the  eyes 
of  others,  a  love  which  faltered  not,  fainted  not,  wearied  not,  on  this  side  the 
grave.  Yes,  his  thoughts  ever  dwelt  on  the  Union  as  the  first  and  best  of  all 
our  earthly  hopes.  The  last  expressions  which  lingered  on  his  dying  lips 
breathed  forth  a  prayer  for  his  country.  Such  in  that  moment  as  in  all  the 
past,  'O  save  my  country,  Heaven,'  was  then  his  last.  *  *  *  He  was  one  of  those 
to  whom  centuries  alone  give  birth,  standing  out  like  beacon  lights  on  the 
loftiest  eminences  to  guide,  admonish  and  instruct  future  generations  as  well 
as  the  present."    .  - 

It  has  been  truly  and  forcibly  said  pf  him : 

"Marshall  found  the  Constitution  paper  and  made  it  a  power;  he  found  it  a 
skeleton  and  he  clothed  it  with  flesh  and  blood." 

I  remember  hearing  a  great  orator  and  judge  once  express  the  hope 
that  he  might  have  the  leisure  sometime  before  he  passed  away  to  read 
one  great  decision  each  day  from  the  Supreme  Court  of  the  United 
States.  If  one  were  going  to  do  [that  he  might  well  select  from  the 
great  decisions  of  the  Supreme  Court  such  cases  as  Marbury  vs. 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Madison,  Gibbons  vs.  Ogden,  and  McCulloch  vs.  the  State  of  Maryland. 
All  these  are  great  landmarks  showing  the  growth  of  the  Constitution  of 
our  country. 

What  we  need  most  in  this  country  is  more  respect  _f or  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  United  States  and  its  laws  and  la  deep  conviction  of  the 
necessity  of  being  law-abiding. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  that  have  been  given  in  this  Conference. 
I  want  to  add  my  testimony  to  that  which  has  already  been  given  by 
s'o  many  in  such  a  splendid  form  at  this  Conference.  I  ask  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  us  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  For  some  reason 
I  am  impelled  to  say — though  it  is  manifestly  unnecessary,  as  President 
Grant  needs  no  defense  from  me,  but  I  think  it  'is  proper — that  I  am 
not  only  in  hearty  accord  with  his  declarations  relative  to  the  enforce- 
ment of,  and  obedience  to  law ;  but  that  I  have  known  him  for  nearly 
half  a  century,  lived  in  the  same  Ward,  associated  with  him  in  business, 
socially,  religiously  and  even  politically,  and  there  has  been  nothing 
more  characteristic  of  him  than  his  frankness  and  above-board  expres- 
sions. Any  man  who  knows  him  will  not  say  to  the  contrary.  May 
God  bless  him,- and  may  he  live  long  to  continue  the  splendid  work 
which  he  is  doing,  and  those  also  who  are  upholding  his  hands. 

The  Eastern  States  Mission  is  in  a  very  healthy  condition,  espe- 
cially the  missionaries.  Our  winter  was  as  open  and  mild  as  it  was 
severe  here.  Branches  of  the  Church  are  in  a  very  healthy  condition. 
I  know  of  no  better  evidence  of  that  fact,  than  that  last  year  there 
was  paid  something  over  thirty  per  cent  more  tithing  than  was  ever 
paid  before  in  the  mission,  and  the  amount  paid  the  preceding  year 
was  largely  in  excess  of  that  of  any  former  year.  If  there  is  anything 
that  tests  honesty  and  sincerity,  it  is  the  payment  of  tithing.  iWell 
may  the  old  prophets  have  said :  "Will  ye  rob  God  in  tithes  and 
offerings?"  We  can  account  for  the  maintenance  of  the  payment  of 
tithing  to  some  extent,  if  not  largely,  because  our  people  are  generally 
employed  by  large  institutions  with  many  employes ;  and  although 
hundreds  of  thousands,  even  millions,  have 'been  thrown  out  of  em- 
ployment, the  honest  tithepayers,  I  testify,  as  a  very  general  rule, 
have  not.  Their  sincerity,  their  honesty,  have  been  so  reflected,  I 
am  sure,  in  the  stability  and  value  of  their  characters  that  their  em- 
ployers have  recognized  the  same. 

The  Mission  has  been  exceptionally  blessed  during  the  past  year. 
Indeed,  I  think  a  marvelous  work  has  been  done  through  the  providence 
of  God,  which  was  commenced  in  this  building,  by  broadcasting  sermons 
and  organ  recitals.  The  hearts  of  the  people  of  the  East  have  softened 
marvelously  in  the  last  two  years.  The  press  has  materially  changed 
its  attitude.    A  different  atmosphere  very  largely  prevails.    We  were 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


121 


deeply  impressed  with  the  importance  of  utilizing  modern  agencies  in 
the  dissemination  of  the  truth. 

We  organized  three  new  departments  of  our  activities.  The  first 
and  most  important,  broadcasting  of  sermons  over  the  radio ;  second, 
exhibiting  Mormonism  in  a  practical  way  in  exhibitions  and  fairs.  The 
largest  of  these  exhibits  was  at  the  Eastern  States  Exhibition  where  all  of 
the  states  in  our  mission  meet  annually.  They  have  permanent  buildings 
at  Springfield,  Massachusetts.  Our  exhibition  was  in  a  booth  in  the 
main  building  over  which  was  displayed  in  large  letters  the  name  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  still  larger 
letters,  "See  what  God  hath  wrought."  In  the  rear  of  our  exhibit  we 
had  a  small  replica  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  The  booth  was  appro- 
priately decorated.  Streamers  were  used  leading  to  the  Temple,  on 
which  pertinent  data  were  displayed  concerning  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
our  system  of  educating  the  young,  and  our  unequalled  charity  system. 
On  a  table  at  the  entrance  was  an  ample  supply  of  tracts.  There  we 
distributed  in  eight  days  over  25,000  tracts.  A  half  dozen  missionaries 
distributed  thousands  of  tracts  daily,  making  friends,  having  conver- 
sations, and  reaching  people  who  would  not  permit  them  to  come  into 
their  homes.  They  could  not  get  past  the  butler,  or  the  servant,  ordi- 
narily. 

Then  we  went  to  the  country  fairs.  The  young  artist,  for  such 
Elder  Carl  E.  Olson  (whom  we  made  Director  of  Exhibitions)  proved 
himself  to  be,  skilfully  designed,  out  on  the  green,  an  old  oaken  bucket 
well,  over  which  he  had  written  in  large  letters,  "The  well  of  living 
water,"  with  the  name  of  the  Church  above  it.  It  attracted  a  great 
deal  of  attention  and  thousands  of  tracts  were  again  distributed. 

Time  will  not  permit  more  on  that  line.  I  should  like  to  tell  you 
more  about  other  things.  We  are  desperately  in  need  of  missionaries 
and  especially  singers.  If  we  are  not  supplied  with  some  singers  soon 
to  take  the  places  of  those  who  are  leaving,  we  shall  have  to  give  up 
some  of  the  stations  over  which  we  are  broadcasting  the  Gospel  every 
Sabbath  day.  The  prediction  of  Isaiah  is  fulfilled,  wherein  it  says 
that  "  A  little  child  shall  lead  them,"  and  that  the  Lord  would  take  "the 
weak  things  of  the  world  to  confound  the  mighty,"  and  accomplish 
his  marvelous  works.  Also  the  prediction  in  the  Book  <^f  Mormon 
that  the  Gospel  will  be  preached  from  the  housetops  is  being  literally 
fulfilled. 

The  first  missionary  who  broadcast  for  us  over  the  radio  was 
Elder  Carrol  D.  Parkinson  of  Preston,  Idaho,  a  nineteen  year  old 
missionary We  had  to  pay  for  the  privilege  so  gave  it  up  temporarily. 
That  was  on  the  11th  of  April  last,  and  immediately  following  the 
great  Centennial  celebration  in  this  city.  We  sent  President  Grant 
over  a  thousand  clippings  from  newspapers;  some  of  the  largest,  like 
the  New  York  Times,  had  lengthy  articles. 

This  great  organ  has  been  making  us  friends.  The  intelligent 
realize  that  such  music  can  come  only  from  a  people  of  intelligence 
and  elevated  ideals,  and  not  from  ignorance  and  bigotry.  And  thus 
1  interest  has  been  aroused  in  our  people.    It  is  certainly  marvelous  that 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


where  we  found  an  opening  we  had  without  previous  thought  the  best 
talent  available. 

The  first  real  opening  was  at  Wilkesbarre,  Pa.,  a  city  of  nearly 
one  hundred  thousand  population,  where  two  of  our  young  elders  were 
laboring — Elder  D.  Glen  Brown  of  Provo,  twenty  years  of  age, 
who  has  been  with  us  only  seven  months,  and  his  companion  John  M. 
Anderson  of  Logan.  They  did  the  real  pioneering,  persisting  in  their 
efforts  to  obtain  the  privilege  of  speaking  over  the  radio  without  cost. 
Finally  the  station,  the  oldest  in  the  city,  and  the  largest,  was  in  need 
of  something  to  fill  in  with,  and  the  privilege  was  given  to  these  young 
men.  Notwithstanding  the  short  notice,  they  met  the  occasion  splen- 
didly. A  quartet  of  our  missionaries  sang  some  of  our  hymns  which 
with  the  address  was  so  pleasing,  that  they  were  invited  to  continue, 
and  every  Sabbath  evening  since  the  18th  day  of  May  last,  we  have  had 
a  half  hour,  during  which  we  sing  the  hymns  of  Zion  and  preach  a 
sermon. 

On  September  10th,  Elder  Brown,  with  only  two  years  education 
at  the  Brigham  Young  University,  was  made  editor  and  director  of 
radio  work  for  the  mission. 

The  next  opening  was  at  Wilmington,  the  largest  city  in  Delaware. 
Sister  Mary  Wioozley,  from  Malad,  had  won  the  friendship  of  the 
members  of  a  Scottish  society,  partly  by  her  piano  playing;  and  ever 
since  the  31st  of  August  we  have  likewise  broadcast  there,  Elder  George 
F.  Williams,  of  Ogden,  another  nineteen  year  old  missionary,  being 
the  principal  address  writer  and  speaker.  That  station  is  the  largest 
in  the  State  of  Delaware.  It  has  a  population  of  over  two  million 
within  a  radius  of  one  hundred  miles. 

They  say  that  there  are  more  than  thirty  million  people  in  our 
mission.  It  is  the  great  center  of  wealth  and  of  the  leading  educational 
institutions  of  the  nation.  It  is  singularly  appropriate  that  in  the  very 
section  where  the  Gospel  was  introduced,  the  most  modern  and  effective 
methods  should  be  utilized  in  proclaiming  the  Gospel.  We  have  only 
about  three  missionaries  to  a  million  of  people  to  preach  the  Gospel 
in  this  mission,  but  they  can  and  are  doing  a  marvelous  work  over  the 
radio. 

The  next  opportunity  came  in  a  still  larger  city,  Syracuse,  which  has 
a  population  of  more  than  two  hundred  thousand.  There,  another  young 
man,  Elder  Earl  H.  Martin,  was  located,  the  only  solo  singer  in  the 
Mission.  He  won  the  hearts  of  the  radio  listeners  by  singing  for 
several  months  without  doing  any  preaching.  Finally,  we  decided  to 
use  him  elsewhere  unless  they  permitted  us  to  also  preach.  Then  they 
gave  us  an  hour  on  Sunday  evening  and  called  it  a  vesper  service. 
Sometimes  we  deliver  two  sermons  during  the  evening,  with  music 
intervening.  This  so  aroused  the  other  churches  that  they  demanded 
the  same  privilege,  and  now  we  have  to  take  turns  with  them. 

There  is  no  place  in  the  Mission,  where  an  opportunity  has  been 
given  us  to  preach  over  the  radio,  that  the  privilege  has  been  taken 
from  us.  If  you  will  give  us  the  missionaries,  especially  those  who 
can  sing,  we  can  accomplish  a  great  work.    We  have  thus,  in  ten 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


123 


months,  delivered  212  Gospel  messages  over  the  radio  in  the  Mission  in 
important  and  prominent  cities  of  the  East,  without  cost  to  the  Church ; 
and  the  work  has  been  splendidly  done  by  youths  generally  under 
twenty-two  years.  To  me  it  is  nothing  short  of  marvelous.  For  some 
time,  as  we  contemplated  and  discussed  this  matter,  I  thought  that 
unless  we  could  have  Dr.  Talmage,  President  Roberts  or  some  such 
speaker  and  writer,  it  would  be  useless  for  us  to  try.  They  could  not 
come  to  our  aid.  The  desirability  of  attempting  this  work  was  pressed 
upon  us  so  strongly  that  we  concluded  to  utilize  the  material  that  we 
had  at  hand.  If  the  Lord  ever  blessed  missionaries  he  has  those  in 
the  Eastern  States  Mission  who  have  participated  in  this  work,  for 
they  were  all  young  and  inexperienced.  Some  of  our  indifferent  mis- 
sionaries who  could  sing  or  write  have  been  aroused  to  greater  activity. 
Forty-one  of  pur  missionaries,  some  of  them  quite  uneducated,  have 
written  addresses.  Twenty-eight  of  them  have  spoken  over  the  radio. 
Young  ladies  have  written  splendid  addresses.  Two  of  them  have 
spoken  over  the  radio.  I  say  it  is  marvelous.  But  more  marvelous  and 
important — and  more  do  I  value  it  above  all  else — is  the  knowledge 
that  I  have  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  that  God  lives,  that  his  servants, 
when  in  the  performance  of  their  duty  under  the  call  of  the  priesthood 
of  God,  have  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  with  them.  He  is  with  us, 
and  there  is  a  joy,  a  happiness  and  a  consolation  in  the  performance 
of  duty,  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  that  is  inexplicable. 

May  we  appreciate  our  opportunities  and  blessings,  and  may  you 
send  us  missionaries  who  can  sing,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  nationial  broadcast  of  the  tabernacle  choir  begins  at  4:15  this 
afternoon.    It  is  important,  therefore,  that  this  meeting  close  promptly ' 
at  four  o'clock,  in  order  to  permit  those  who  desire  to  leave  the  building 
to  do  so  before  that  time,  so  that  the  doors  can  be  closed  and  absolute 
quiet  prevail  during  the  broadcast. 

The  national  broadcasts  of  the  tabernacle  choir  number  to  date 
approximately  ninety.  These  have  covered  practically  this  entire  nation 
as  well  as  Canada.  They  have  been  transmitted  to  some  extent  at  least, 
by  short  waves,  to  Europe.  Many  thousands  of  letters  have  been 
received  expressing  appreciation  for  these  broadcasts.  Some  such 
letters  have  come  from  England. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission 

I  sincerely  hope  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  attend  me 
during  the  few  moments  I  occupy  this  position. 

Some  of  the  other  brethren  have  referred  to  the  sensations  they 
have  had  during  the  past  three  days.    I  have  passed  through  all  of 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  sensations  and  some  I  think  in  addition.  To  sit  for  three  days 
not  knowing  what  moment  you  are  to  speak  is  an  anxious  time. 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  given  by  way  of  revelation  at  the 
opening  of  the  great  Gospel  dispensation  in  which  we  now  live.  The 
Lord  says : 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men;  yea,  verily  I  say:  Hearken  ye  people  from 
afar;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to 
escape ;  and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear, 
neither  heart  that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow ;  for  their  in- 
iquities shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

"Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them  to  publish 
unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

"Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye  people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have 
decreed  in  them  shall  be  fulfilled."  1 

And  the  Lord  says  further : 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come  upon  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant,  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  and  spake 
unto  him  from  heaven  and  gave  him  commandments ; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim  these 
things  unto  the  world ;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which  was  written 
by  the  prophets — 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come  forth  and  break  down  the  mighty 
and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man,  neither  trust  in  the 
arm  of  flesh — 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even  the 
Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in  the  earth ; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  ,weak  and  the 
simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

*    *    *  * 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth :  I  the  Lord 
am  willing  to  make  these  things  known  unto  all  flesh ; 

"For  I  am  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  will  that  all  men  shall  know  that 
the  day  speedily  cometh ;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace 
shall  be  taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own 
dominion. 

"And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign  in  their 
midst,  and  shall  come  down  in  judgment  upon  Idumea,  or  the  world. 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself ; 
and  though  the  heavens  andi  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away, 
but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my 
servants,  it  is  the  same. 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record  and 
the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever." 

I  would  like  to  call  the  attention  of  this  congregation  to  the  fact 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMiURRIN 


125 


that  in  this  very  first  revelation  in  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
the  Lord  has  said  that  the  weak  things  of  the  earth  should  be  chosen 
to  accomplish  this  marvelous  work  to  which  reference  has  been  made.  It 
may  seem  a  little  ridiculous  in  the  eyes  of  those  who  do  not  believe  that 
the  Lord  God  of  heaven  has  placed  his  hand  to  bring  to  pass  in  these 
latter  times  that  marvelous  work  which  has  been  sung  about  by  all 
the  prophets,  that  this  revelation  should  say,  "Fear  and  tremble,  O  ye 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,"  because  of  the  weakness  of  the  men  and 
women  who  are  called  to  represent  the  work  of  God  in  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel. 

In  my  mind's  eye  I  see  standing  in  a  little  river,  just  fifty  years 
ago  this  year,  one  of  those  weak  missionary  boys  who  had  been  appointed 
by  hfs  traveling  companion  to  administer  the  ordinance  of  baptism  to 
one  who  had  been  convinced  of  the  truth.  As  he  stood  there  in  the 
river  and  thought  of  lifting  his  hand  to  make  the  declaration,  "Having 
been  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the 
Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,"  how  weak  that  poor 
instrument  was ;  and  in  his  soul  he  cried  out  to  God,  "Father,  if  there 
be  aught  wrong  in  this  act  that  I  am  about  to  perform,  forgive  thy 
servant,  who  believes  that  he  is  possessed  of  divine  authority." 

There  could  not  be  a  weaker  instrument,  it  seems  to  me,  on  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth,  and  that  humble  and  frightened  instrument 
was  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

I  have  met  a  great  many  of  these  weak  men  right  here  in  Salt  Lake 
City  who  have  been  assigned  to  the  California  Mission,  and  sometimes 
as  I  have  hearkened  to  them  and  have  noted  their  weakness,  they 
could  hardly  make  answer  to  simple  questions  because  of  the  fear  that 
was  in  their  souls.  I  have  thought,  "What  can  this  man  or  this  woman 
do  in  the  mission  field?"  I  am  a  witness  that  shortly  after  meeting 
them  here  I  have  met  them  in  the  mission  field  changed  and  improved. 
I  would  not  want  to  convey  the  thought  that  they  had  suddenly  become 
strong,  educated,  powerful  men  and  women.  No.  But  there  had 
something  come  into  their  souls  that  had  driven  out  fear;  they  had 
learned  to  know  for  themselves  concerning  the  divine  authority  they 
possessed,  that  they  had  actually  been  called  by  the  Lord  God  of  heaven 
to  represent  him  in  the  preaching  of  the  holy  Gospel,  and  that  they 
were  of  a  surety  servants  of  the  living  God.  Men  may  well  tremble 
at  the  authority  and  power  of  God  that  has  been  given  in  this  dispen- 
sation to  mortal  men. 

I  want  to  tell  you  that  when  men  and  women  become  possessed  in 
their  own  souls  of  this  thought,  there  is  a  strength  about  their  presence, 
and  about  their  testimony,  and  about  their  faith  in  God,  that  is  mar- 
velous and  beyond  my  power  to  describe.  I  thank  God  that  the  promises 
are  being  fulfilled.  No  matter  how  weak  we  are  we  do  bear  divine 
authority,  and  through  the  help  and  blessing  and  power  of  God,  and 
the  companionship  of  his  Spirit  we  are  making  our  way,  little  by  little, 
among  those  with  whom  we  come  in  contact ;  and  God  is  convincing  us 
in  our  very  souls  that  we  represent  him. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  is  my  testimony  concerning  the  ministry  that  is  being  carried 
on  by  these  weak  vessels  in  the  California  Mission.  We  are  perishing 
because  of  the  lack  of  help.  One  of  the  First  Presidency  has  made  a 
declaration  that  has  been  referred  to :  "There  is  a  famine  in  the  land." 
He  made  it  especially  to  the  bishops,  stake  presidents  and  presiding 
men,  and  he'  said,  "You  are  not  meeting  your  responsibility."  In 
attestation  of  the  truth  of  this  declaration  I  would  like  to  say  that  the 
California  Mission  has  been  operating  with  ISO  to  200  missionaries  in 
years  gone  by,  and  we  are  now  reduced  to  about  eighty-five.  We  would 
like  you  brethren  who  select  missionaries  to  take  this  declaration  with 
you,  and!  hope  it  will  ring  in  your  ears — eighty-five.  There  is  a  famine 
in  the  California  Mission  because  of  the  lack  of  men  to  proclaim  the 
glorious  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God.  I  hope  the  necessity  will  be"  met. 
You  presiding  men  can  change  it,  if  you  will. 

God  bless  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  (sisters,  to  be  present  at  another 
Conference  of  this  Church.  The  great  testimonies  that  have  gone  forth 
from  the  speakers  will  add,  I  know,  to  the  stability  and  strength  of  the 
membership  of  the  Church,  and  men  and  women  will  become  more 
convinced  that  the  Spirit  of  God  is  with  these  men.  who  stand  at  the 
head  and  have  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  administer  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

When  President  Grant  was  addressing  this  congregation  at  the 
opening  session  the  words  of  Solomon  came  to  my  mind :  "Where  there 
is  no  vision,  the  people  perish:  but  he  that  keepeth  the  law,  happy  is 
he."  It  is  through  obedience  to  this  principle  that  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  advanced  and  prospered.  For  a  century 
of  time  it  has  maintained  a  steady  growth  because  its  people  have  kept 
the  laws  of  God. 

I  was  more  than  happy  to  hear  the  President  say  that  (the  Church 
is  out  of  debt.  It  maintains  a  great  army  of  men  both  at  home  and 
abroad  who  give  their  time  unselfishly,  paying  their  own  way,  for  the 
building  up  of  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God.  They  are  taken 
away  from  the  great  earning  power  of  its  membership  for  years  at  a 
time;  yet  (we  find  the  Church  strong,  strong  in  faith,  wonderful  in 
power,  out  of  debt,  paying  its  way.  There  is  nothing  else  like  it  under 
the  shining  sun. 

I  draw  the  attention  of  the  people  of  the  world  who  have  known 
this  Church  for  many  years  and  who  have  not  been  obedient  to  its 
teachings  to  the  fact  that  they  need  the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  unless 
they  do  repent  they  cannot  inherit  the  glory  that  was  promised  by 
the  early  leaders  to  those  who  would  accept  the  truth. 

I  know  the  Gospel  is  true.  It  never  was  so  wonderful  as  it  is  today. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BEN N ION 


127 


There  never  was  more  to  do.  Surely  there  is  a  famine  in  the  land. , 
There  has  probably  never  been  a  time  when  there  was  more  money 
or  more  food  produced,  or  more  clothing  manufactured,  than  at  the 
present  time  in  this  land  of  America.  But  there  is  a  great  famine,  not 
for  bread  nor  if  or  water,  but  for  the  hearing  of  the  word  of  God.  Elders 
are  needed  everywhere.  The  missionaries  are  working  hard  and  doing 
perhaps  twice  the  amount  of  work  that  ever  was  done  before.  We  need 
more  missionaries.  We  have  but  sixty-eight  in  the  Central  States 
Mission,  which  is  one  of  the  very  oldest  missions  of  the  Church.  We 
wish  that  more  could  come,  but  we  will  have  to  leave  that  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord  and  with  those  in  authority. 

I  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  in  regard  to  the  strength  of  the 
leadership  of  our  Church.  It  is  the  Church  of  God  in  the  earth.  It 
will  win,  it  will  lead,  because  God  our  eternal  Father  has  not  forsaken 
it,  and  the  power  of  his  Spirit  has  been  felt  among  our  leaders,  as 
each  president  has  come  and  gone.  And  this  Spirit  has  been  with  the 
membership,  too,  as  is  evidenced  in  the  testimonies  they  have  borne 
in  all  parts  of  the  world,  from  the  inception  of  the  work  until  now. 

I  pray  our  Father's  blessings  upon  us  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  asked  all  the  Mission  /Presidents  jwho  have  just  addressed  us, 
with  the  exception  of  Brother  Moyle,  to  occupy  only  ten  minutes  each. 
Every  one  of  them  complied  with  my  request.  They  spoke  from 
three  and  a  half  to  eight  and  a  half  minutes  each,  and  for  the  first  time 
in  four  lor  five  years  there  is  a  little  spare  time  at  the  closing  session 
of  Conference. 

GEMS  FROM  THE  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS 

I  felt  impressed  that  the  splendid  things  contained  in  Section  88 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  ought  to  come  before  this  Conference. 
I  had  several  passages  copied  and  intended  to  read  them,  but  I  was 
very  pleased  to  hear  nearly  every  word  of  them  quoted  by  Brother  Rulon 
S.  Wells.  There  is,  however,  in  that  section  something  further  which 
I  think  it  well  to  read  to  you : 

"For  intelligence  cleaveth  unto  intelligence;  wisdom  receiveth  wisdom; 
truth  embraceth  truth;  virtue  loveth  virtue;  light  cleaveth  unto  light;  mercy 
hath  compassion  on  mercy  and  claimeth  her  own;  justice  continueth  its  course 
and  claimeth  its  own;  judgment  goeth  before  the  face  of  him  who  sitteth  upon 
the  throne  and  governeth  and  executeth  all  things. 

"He  comprehendeth  all  things,  and  all  things  are  before  him,  and  all  things 
are  round  about  him ;  and  he  is  above  all  things,  and  in  all  things,  and  is  through 
all  things,  and  is  round  about  all  things ;  and  all  things  are  by  him  and  of  him, 
even  God,  forever  and  ever." 

And  this  from  ^Section  84: 

"And  any  man  that  shall  go  and  preach  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom,  and 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

fail  not  to  continue  faithful  in  all  things,  shall  not  be  weary  in  mind,  neither 
darkened,  neither  in  body,  limb,  nor  joint;  and  a  hair  of  his  head  shall  not  fall 
to  the  ground  unnoticed." 

President  Grant  then  presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers 
and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  who  were  voted  upon 
and  unanimously  sustained  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  'Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  [Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  ,THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  (Smith 

Reed  Smoot  Jiames  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 


Saints. 


FIRST  .COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  IBISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

.  CHURCH   HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  'Smith,  with  the  following  assistants  :•  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  land  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C  Lund,  Conductor ;  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant  Conductor ; 
David  A.  Smith,  President. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  ,  Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

'Joseph  Anderson 
GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
Julia  F.  Lund,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted, 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  'Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edna  Harker  Thomias,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  the  testimony  of  Brother  James  H.  Moyle. 
He  pleaded,  oh  so  hard,  for  Brother  Talmage  or  Brother  Roberts  or 
someone  else  to  come  to  his  mission  and  speak  over  the  radio.  We 
could  not  yield  to  his  pleadings.  We  rejoice  that  during  the  last  six 
months  the  Lord  has  seen  .fit  to  magnify  the  young  men  and  the  young 
women  in  the  Eastern  States  Mission  and  that  he  has  inspired  and 
blessed  them  in  the  marvelous  way  he  has  done. 

OBEY  THE    LAWS   OF  GOD 

We  hear  a  great  deal  about  obeying  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States.  What  is  the  matter  with  our  obeying  the  constitution  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Ghrist  of  Latter-day  Saints?  What  is  the  matter 
with  us  being  honest  in  obeying  the  laws  of  Almighty  God  by  paying 
our  tithing?  There  are  a  great  many  people  who  are  very  active  in 
preaching  this  Gospel  who  fail  to  obey  it  themselves.  Let  us  obey  it, 
and  then  we  shall  find  that  there  is  no  power  on  earth  or  beneath  the 
earth  that  can  stop  us  in  good  works. 

LOYALTY  IN  PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL 

I  do  not  believe  that  one  missionary  in  every  twenty  that  are 
sent  into  the  mission  field  has  had  previous  experience  in  missionary 
work.  It  seems  to  me  that  there  should  be  more  loyalty  in  preaching 
the  Gospel  than  exists  at  the  present  time.  I  remember  that  when  I  was 
a  young  man  the  IChurch.did  not  send  boys  on  missions  as  it'  has  to 
do  today,  but  men  of  experience  made  sacrifices  to  go  into  the  mission 
field.  Men  laid  down  almost  anything  that  they  were  doing  when  the 
call  came  to  go  upon  a  mission.  But  now,  if  there  is  any  excuse  under 
heaven  that  we  can  make  to  stay  home  many  of  us  are  staying. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


I  want  to  endorse  all  that  has  been  said  that  is  calculated  in  its 
nature  to  inspire  the  leading  men  of  this  Church,  all  over  the  Church, 
and  the  members,  to  make  sacrifices  and  prepare  themselves  to  proclaim 
the  Gospel. 

THE  BEST  CONFERENCE 

I  am  very  happy  indeed  over  all  that  has  been  said  and  done  in 
this  Conference.  I  pray  earnestly  and  sincerely  that  the  Lord  will 
sanctify  to  our  blessing  all  that  we  have  heard.  I  rejoice  in  the  fact 
that  I  have  heard  on  all  sides  as  far  back  las  I  can  remember,  "Well, 
we  have  had  the  finest  Conference  ever."  It  shows  that  the  people  have 
the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  that  when  they  are  fed  the 
bread  of  life  their  hearts  are  warmed.  Tears  of  gratitude  come  into 
their  eyes  for  the  authority  of  the  living  God,  for  the  power  that  comes 
to  the  people,  and  it  does  seem  as  though  the  last  Conference  is  always 
the  best.  ! 

May  God  help  us  each  and  all  to  live  in  such  way  and  manner 
that  his  Spirit  may  be  our  constant  guide  and  companion,  I  ask  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  and  in  the  authority  of  the  priesthood  of  the  living 
God  that  I  hold.  May  God  bless  the  people ;  may  he  bless  the  General, 
the  Stake  and  the  Ward  .authorities  and  the  officers  of  the  auxiliary 
organizations  throughout  the  Church.  May  he  bless  the  misssionaries 
at  home  and  abroad,  and  may  he  inspire  the  people  to  do  missionary 
work. 

TO  WARN  OUR  NEIGHBORS 

I  would  like  to  call  the  attention  of  President  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 
to  the  fact  that  there  are  three  (Stakes  of  Zion  in  California,  that  there 
are  residing  in  California  today  probably  twenty  thousand  members  of 
the  Church.  We  should  remember  that  the  Lord  has  told  us  that  it  is 
our  duty  to  warn  our  neighbors  and  to  preach  this  Gospel — that  duty 
is  upon  all  of  us — we  should  be  missionaries.  There  are  very  many 
men  in  the  Church  who  are  devoting  nearly  all  their  time  outside  of 
their  daily  vocations  in  an  endeavor  to  bring  people  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  Gospel,  although  they  have  not  been  called  Upon  missions.  There 
are  some  of  our  Bishops  who  ;not  only  do  their  duty  in  their  Wards, 
but  when  they  find  someone  whom  they  can  interest  in  the  Gospel  they 
preach  it  to  him.  II  think  one  of  the  best  preachers  I  have  known  ever 
since  he  came  home  from  his  mission  as  a  young  man  is  Bishop  Thomas 
A.  Clawson  of  the  Eighteenth  ,Ward.  He  is  zealous  in  keeping  his 
returned  missionaries  at  work. 

Let  us  all  realize  that  this  work  belongs  to  each  and  every  one  of 
us,  and  let  us  do  all  in  our  power  for  its  advancement. 

"the  song  of  the  heart" 

May  the  Lord  bless  our  singers,  not  only  those  who  belong  to 
this  great  tabernacle  choir,  but  our  singers  throughout  the  entire  Church. 
There  is  no  other  people  in  the  world  who  take  greater  interest  in 
music,  in  singing,  and  in  advancement  along  those  lines  than  do  the 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Latter-day  Saints.  Why  ?  Because  we  realize  that  the  Lord  has  given 
a  revelation  wherein  he  has  said  that  his  soul  delighteth  in  the  song 
of  the  heart,  that  it  is  a  prayer  unto  him,  'and  that  it  shall  be  answered 
with  a  blessing  upon  our  heads.  Let  us  remember  the  kind  of  songs 
the  Lord  likes,  songs  with  the  IGospel  in  them.  I  have  gone  to  con- 
ferences where  I  have  heard  three  or  four  anthems,  with  the  words 
of  which  I  could  not  agree.  They  were  sung  to  good  music  but  they 
were  not  good  doctrine. 

May  the  Lord  guide  us  by  the  unerring  counsels  of  his  Spirit, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  as  a  closing  number,  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  John  W.  Hart,  President  of  the  Rigby  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  singing  at  the  meetings  on  Sunday  was  conducted  by  B.  Cecil 
Gates,  Assistant  Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  and  at  the  other 
sessions  of  the  Conference  by  Edward  P.  Kimball. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  were  played  on  the  great  organ 
by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Frank  Asper. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  128 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   36 

The  gift  of  God  within  us,  36— Lest  ye  be  deceived,  36— Seek  spir- 
itual guidance,  37 — Deceptions  of  the  adversary,  37 — Using  new 
methods,  38 — A  period  of  growth  and  development,  39 — Men  of  God, 


140. 

Barnard,  Dr.  H.  E   56 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0  126 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V   90 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  106 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Qh   14 


Easter  celebration,  14 — Resurrection  and  life,  14 — Power  in  humility, 
IS — Humility  leads  to  faith,  IS- — Contriteness  of  spirit  leads  to  God 
IS — Humility — a  divine  gift,  16 — Spiritual  effects  of  depression,  16 — 


Pride  leads  to  destruction,  16 — Dangers  in  high  places,  17 — Instances 
of  power  through  humility,  18 — The  spirit  of  the  priesthood,  18. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   19 

God's  greatest  gift,  19 — What  salvation  is  and  how  obtained,  19 — 
The  reward  of  the  faithful,  20 — Testimony,  20. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting    2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   24 

Gaeth,  Elder  Arthur   107 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  128 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  129 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  129 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Financial  statement,  2 — Statistics  and  other  data  compiled  from  the 


annual  reports  for  the  }rear  1930,  3 — Decries  propaganda,  S — Punished 
when  found,  S — To  protect  the  unwary,  6— Widely  circulated,  6 — 
False  and  slanderous  statements,  6 — President  Widtsoe  maligned,  7 — 
Absolutely  forbidden,  7 — The  position  of  the  Church,  8 — The  people's 
welfare,  8 — Denies  Church  in  debt,  8 — Contrary  to  law,  9 — Statement 
sustained,  9 — Quotes  Prophet's  prayer,  9 — Reads  from  scriptures, 
10 — The  Barlow  case,  10 — Faith  and  works,  11 — Quotes  former 
speech,  11 — Pledge  kept,  12 — Counsel  from  the  Lord,  12 — Not  nec- 
essary to  be  commanded,  12 — Grateful  for  knowledge,  13 — Priesthood 
properly  exercised,  13. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   45 

Greeting  from  Hawaii,  45. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   56 

Introducing  Dr.  H.  E.  Barnard,  56. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J     67 

The  duty  of  parents  in  Zion,  67. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   79 

Washington's  farewell  address,  79. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  123 

Tabernacle  Choir  radio  broadcasts,  123. 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J  127 

Gems  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  127— General  Authorities  of 
the  Church  sustained,  128 — General  Officers  of  the  Church  sustained, 
129 — General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  sustained,  129. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  130 

Obey  the  laws  of  God,  130 — Loyalty  in  preaching  the  Gospel,  130 — 
The  best  Conference,  131 — To  warn  our  neighbors,  131 — The  song  of 
the  heart,  131. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  117 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   46 

Easter,  46 — A  Redeemer  promised,  47 — "He  who  was  to  come", 
47 — The  witness  he  bore,  48 — King  though  he  was,  48 — He  was  not 
there,  48 — He  lived  again,  49 — It  was  a  revelation,  49 — "No  more 
death",  SO — A  man  of  sorrow,  SO — The  earth  is  happy,  51. 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L  116 

Kimball,  Elder  Jonathan  G   87 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   72 

The  world's  great  need,  72 — Assignment  of  work,  72 — Attitude  of 
college  men,  72 — Importance  of  religious  thought,  72— Faith  is  the 
basis,  73— Happiness  the  aim,  73 — Honesty  means  progress,  73 — Nobil- 
ity or  honor,  73— Why  America  has  prospered,  74 — Sobriety  indis- 
pensable, 74 — The  High  virtues,  74 — A  pledge  to  our  country,  75— 
What  one  individual  may  accomplish,  75— A  whole  convention  re- 
sponds, 75 — A  call  to  patriots,  76. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   79 

The  Lost  and  found,  79 — The  importance  of  such  a  mission,  80 — 
Two  pictures,  j80^-The  cost,  81— What  the  Church  can  do,  81— 
Personal  influence,  82 — Seeking  the  lost  one,  82— Accounting  for 
every  one,  83. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W  123 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H  120 

Nibley,  President  Chas.  W   51 

On  strange  times,  51 — As  a  young  missionary,  52 — Trouble  and 
distress,  52 — In  effect  an  increase,  52 — i" After  your  testimony",  S3 — 
A  famine  in  the  land,  53 — Sacrifice  and  saving,  54 — Worth  every- 
thing, 55 — "Give  us  faith",  55. 

Pond,  Elder  Noah  S  113 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   89 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   40 

Men  of  God,  40 — Seeking  salvation,  41 — A  strong  argument,  41 — War 
in  heaven,  41 — The  will  of  the  Father,  42 — Other  reasons  for  ob- 
serving Word  of  Wisdom,  42. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   21 

Gratitude  for  blessings,  21 — Joy  that  passeth  understanding,  21 — 
The  inspired  of  God,  21 — Consideration  for  one  another,  22— The 
fruition  of  God's  purposes,  22 — The  supreme  charity,  23. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   84 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr   98 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    46 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   67 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R  Ill 

Smith,  Elder  David  A  100 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   31 

Humble  but  great  men,  31 — Upheld  and  sustained  by  righteous  mem- 


INDEX 


135 


bers,  32 — Experiences  of  early  leaders,  32 — Tools  of  the  adversary, 
33 — While  in  a  dungeon,  33 — Marking  the  trails,  34 — Gratitude  for 
blessings,  35. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   76 

Blessings  through  sacrifices  of  others,  76 — Helped  by  patriarchal 
blessings,  77 — Answers  to  prayers,  77 — A  striking  example,  78 — For 
comfort  and  benefit,  78 — Blesses  the  people,  78. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding    68 

An  opportunity  for  all,  68 — To  avoid  deception,  68 — Branded  as 
false  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  69 — False  spirits  in  the  earth,  70 — 
A  key  for  guidance,  70 — By  the  spirit  of  truth,  70— "Whoso  treasur- 
eth  up  my  word",  71.  * 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed    24 

Not  ashamed  of  the  Church,  24 — Prohibitionists,  25 — Ingersoll's  views 
regarding  alcohol,  25 — Eastern  States  Mission  accomplishments,  26— 
God  at  the  helm,  26. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   26 

The  evil  gift,  27 — From  God  or  from  satan?  28 — Beware  of  decep- 
tion, 28 — False  prophets,  29 — Spurious  imitations,  29 — Satan  a  living 
personage,  30 — Latter-day  warning,  30. 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   87 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   Ill 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur   109 

Wells,  Elder  John   114 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   92 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   61 


The  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  61 — God's  greatest  gift,  61 — A  spiritual  feast, 
62 — The  source  of  life  and  light,  62 — Letter  and  spirit,  62 — The  Word 
made  flesh,  63 — John's  true  meaning,  63 — Spiritual  things  spiritually 
discerned,  64 — A  case  in  point,  64 — When  thanks  are  out  of  place,  64— 
A  spiritual  dividend,  65 — The  law  of  consecration,  65 — Why  we  fast, 
66 — Body  and  spirit,  66 — The  sick  world's  panacea,  66. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   57 

The  same  spirit  and  purpose,  57 — Greetings  from  the  European  mis- 
sions, 57 — A  new  day,  57 — Spiritual  indifference,  58 — Man-made  gods, 
58 — The  true  God,  58 — Joseph  Smith's  first  vision,  59 — Authoritative 
leadership,  59 — Teachers  of  the  world,  60 — The  search  for  eternal 
truth,  61. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   97 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   43 


All  Students  ot  the  Book  of 
Mormon 

"WILL  FIND  THE  BOOK 

An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon 

By  J.  M.  SJODAHL 

To  be  mighty  interesting  and  illuminating 

"Some  of  the  contents  of  the  book  has  appeared  in  the  IMPROVEMENT 
ERA  and  other  Church  publications  during  the  last  ten  years,  and  friends 
have  been  good  enough  to  say,  repeatedly,  that  they  wojuld  be  glad  to  have 
those  contributions  in  some  form  more  convenient  for  reference.  Acting 
on  their  suggestion,  I  have  collected  some  papers  previously  published  and 
others  that  now  appear  for  the  first  time,  and  respectfully  submit  them  in 
this  form  to  the  public.  In  doing  so,  it  is  my  sincere  prayer  that  the  testi- 
mony here  offered  may  be  of  benefit  to  the  reader,  and  especially  to  honest 
seekers  after  the  truth." 

Price  $3.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks 
by  Radio 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  has  now  been  issued  in  regular 
book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio."  It  is 
printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set  for  this 
edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 


44  East  on  South  Temple 


P.  O.  Box  1793 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  veritable  epic  of  empire-building 


The  Life  Story  of 
Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 
WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  of  a  New  England  cabinet-maker, 
who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  upon  a  career  that  made  him  an  empire- 
builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  of  a  hundred  cities;  the  governor  of  one 
of  the  territories  of  the  United  States;  and  one  of  the  outstanding  figures 
of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this  notable 
biography.  "A  graphic,  gripping  story,"  he  terms  it,  and  every  reader 
undoubtedly  will  agree  with  his  definition  of  this  life  of  the  indefatigable, 
indomitable  Brigham  Young,  which  was  written  by  one  of  his  daughters 
and  her  daughter.  The  entire  record  of  the  great  Mormon  leader  is  un- 
folded from  his  birth  in  a  little  Vermont  town  to  his  death  at  the  age  of 
seventy-seven  as  head  of  the  church,  the  success  of  which  was  due  to  his 
courageous  and  arduous  leadership. 

380  Pages,  46  Illustrations,  Bound  in  Dark  Brown  Cloth  with  Gold  Titles. 

Price  $5.00 


HAVE  YOU  EVER  READ 

THE  BOOK  OF  ABRAHAM 

as  contained  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price?  A  vivid  story  of  the  creation  of 
the  earth,  and  a  wonderful  description  of  the  constellations  in  the  vast 
expanse  of  the  heavens. 

Buy  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  now,  and  read  what  Abraham  wrote. 

Price  50c 

Dcserct  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


