Seventieth  Semi-Annual  t 


CONFERENCE 


OF  W 

f 


m 
.1 

I 

I 

h 
I 

I 
I 
h 

I 
I 

| 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  » 

of  Latter-day  Saints,  !f 

I  -  f 

I  f 

|^  Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  October  6th,  7th  and  8th,  \Z99,  9 
with  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses. 

I  '  f 

I  .   f 

9    f 

I  f 

%  ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  tffo 

E  « 
I 

1 


^SEMICENTENNIAL  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE.^ 


|    § 

I  f 

IN                                  The  Deseret  News.  \$fi 

I                                                   1899-  f 

^^^^  ^ 


Saturday 


Oijght 


24  PAGES 

Profusely  Illustrated  <with 
Etchings  and  Half  Tones. 


A  MAGAZINE  AND  A  ~  <rJ 

daily  newspaper  Combined. 


SENT  TO  ANY  ADDRESS  FOR 

$2.00  a  Year. 


General  Conference 


THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventieth  Semi-annual  confer- 
ence of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, today,  Friday,  October  6,  1899, 
President  Lorenzo  Snow  presiding. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present 
there  were,  of  the  First  Presidency: 
Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles — Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  Marriner  W.  Merrill, 
Anthon  H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  Owen  Woodruff  and  Rudger 
Clawson;  Patriarch  John  Smith;  of  the 
First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies — 
Seymour  B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjelsted, 
George  Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin;  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  Wil- 
liam B.  Preston,  Robert  T.  Burton  and 
John  R.  Winder. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by  the 
President. 

The  chgir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 
Come,  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  sal- 
vation; 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam, 

Good  tidings  are  sounding  to  us  and 
each  nation, 
And  shortly  the  hour  of  redemption 

will  come. 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  John  Nicholson. 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn: 

Our  God,  we  raise  to  Thee 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free 

We  here  enjoy; 
In  this  far  western  land, 
A  true  and  chosen  band, 
Led  hither  by  Thy  hand, 

Would  sing  for  joy. 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

OPENING  ADDRESS. 

I  wish  to  say  a  few  words  at  the 
opening  of  our  conference  this  morning. 
I  feel  myself,  and  I  hope  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  does,  very  grateful  for  this 
beautiful  morning  and  the  prospect  of 
good  weather  while  we  are  convened.  I 
trust  that  every  Latter-day  Saint  will 
exercise  faith  that  this  beautiful 
weather  may  continue  during  confer- 
ence. Many  people  that  are  here  this 
morning  and  who  will  be  here  during 
our  whole  proceedings,  have  come  from 
a  long  distance,  and  some  have 
perhaps  made  what  may  be  called 
sacrifices  in  order  to  come.  I 
want  to  say  to  everyone  that 
it  is  our  privilege  to  be  blessed  to  such 
an  extent  that  we  will  feel  perfectly 
repaid  for  all  the  inconvenience  that 
may  have  resulted  to  us  in  coming  to 
this  gathering.  As  Latter-day  Saints 
the  Lord  has  placed  us  in  relation  with 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


himself,  and  in  order  to  carry  out  the 
condition  that  we  are  in  we  need  His 
blessing  above  any  other  class  of  peo- 
ple. 

Our  prospects  are  sufficiently  grand 
and  glorious  to  cause  us  to  put  forth 
every  exertion  that  we  possibly  can,  in 
order  to  secure  the  blessings  that  are 
before  us.  Nothing  should  deter  us 
from  the  exercise  of  every  power  that 
God  has  bestowed  upon  us,  to  make  our 
salvation  and  exaltation  sure.  All  men 
and  women  who  are  worthy  to  be  called 
Latter-day  Saints  should  live  hour  by 
hour  in  such  a  way  that  if  they  should 
be  called  suddenly  from  this  life  into 
the  next  they  would  be  prepared.  The 
preparation  should  be  such  that  we 
should  not  fear  to  be  called  away  sud- 
denly into  the  sDirit  life.  It  is  our 
privilege  to  so  live  as  to  have  the  spirit 
of  light  and  intelligence  to  that  extent 
that  we  shall  feel  satisfied  that  all  will 
be  well  if  we  should  be  called  away  at 
any  hour. 

If  we  look  back  at  our  experience 
since  we  received  the  Gospel,  we  can  see 
and  know  that  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us  abundantly.  If  we  have  been  faith- 
ful, as  we  should  have  been,  or  if  we 
have  not  been  so  faithful  as  we  should 
have  been,  but  now  feel  to  do  right,  we 
have  assurances,  from  our  past  ex- 
perience, that  everything  will  be  well 
with  us  in  the  future  as  we  tread  the 
path  of  exaltation  and  glory,  walking 
in  the  light  of  the  truth  and  carefully 
observing  everything  that  is  required 
of  us.  If  there  should  be  any  Latter- 
day  Saints  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  that  have  not  reached  this  as- 
surance in  regard  to  their  future,  they 
should  not  rest  satisfied  until  they  have 
secured  it,  so  that  they  may  know  that 
everything  is  right  with  them. 

What  I  want  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  that  during  this  conference,  as  the 
Elders  shall  arise  to  address  us,  our 
faith  and  our  prayers  may  be  exer- 
cised for  each  one  who  speaks,  that  he 
may  say  such  things,  and  that  we  may 
have  the  spirit  to  receive  such  things 
as  shall  be  beneficial  to  all.  This  is 
our  privilege  and  our  duty.  We  have 
not  come  here  accidentally;  we  have 
come  in  this  conference  expecting  to  re- 
ceive something  that  will  be  advant- 
ageous to  us.  The  Latter-day  Saint9 
most  assuredly  need  to  receive  good 
things.   Of  ourselves  we  can  do  nothing. 


As  Jesus  said:  "Verily,  verily  I  say 
unto  you,  the  Son  can  do  nothing  of 
himself,  but  what  he  seeth  the  Father 
do;  for  what  things  soever  he  doeth, 
these  also  doeth  the  Son  likewise."  He 
came  into  this  life  to  do  the  will  of  his 
Father,  and  not  his  own  will.  Our  de- 
sire and  determination  should  be  the 
same.  When  things  come  up  that  re- 
quire an  exertion  on  our  part,  we  should 
bring  our  wills  into  subjection  to  the 
will  of  the  Father,  and  feel  to  say, 
what  is  the  will  of  our  Father,  whom 
we  are  here  in  the  world  to  serve? 
Then  every  act  that  we  perform  will  be 
a  success.  We  may  not  see  its  success 
today  or  tomorrow,  nevertheless  it  will 
result  in  success. 

We  have  received  principles  of  truth, 
but  not  in  blindness.  We  do  not  walk 
in  blindness,  but  we  walk  in  the  light 
of  truth.  We  know  what  we  are  about 
and  what  will  be  the  result  of  our 
faithfulness.  But  we  should  be  wise 
and  prudent;  we  should  learn  to  govern 
ourselves,  to  control  our  passions,  and 
to  bring  all  our  faculties  and  powers 
into  perfect  obedience  to  the  mind 
and  will  of  God,  so  that  these  bodies, 
which  God  has  given  to  us,  may  be  gov- 
erned and  controlled  in  all  respects  as 
He  would  wish.  The  Latter-day  Saints, 
by  being  wise  and  prudent,  can  make 
this  life  a  tolerably  happy  one.  We 
need  not  live  in  misery;  we  need  not 
feel  that  we  are  sacrificing  all  the  time, 
but  that  what  we  call  sacrifices  prove  a 
blessing  to  us,  which  we  would  not  re- 
ceive were  it  not  for  this  experience. 
Everything  that  transpires  affecting  us 
individually  may  be  made  a  blessing, 
and  will  be  a  blessing  to  us  if  we  act 
wisely  and  prudently. 

We  are  not  here  to  fight  anybody;  we 
are  not  here  to  contend  with  anybody. 
We  are  here  to  move  slowly  along,  per- 
form the  duties  that  are  required  at 
our  hands,  mind  our  own  business,  and 
let  others  mind  their  business^  or  not 
as  they  see  proper.  In  this  way  we 
shall  progress  and  gain  an  experience 
that  will  be  useful  to  us,  not  only  in 
this  life,  but  in  the  life  to  come. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters. 
May  we  walk  in  obedience  to  the  com- 
mandments of  God  continually,  and  if 
we  do  I  will  assure  you  that  we  will 
receive  blessings  far  greater  than  we 
ever  anticipated.   God  bless  you,  Amen. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAUSON. 


3 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

A  Lesson  to  be  Drawn  from  the  Career  of  Kin" 
Saul — Ti.e  Obligation  of  ObeciieDce  to  God— 
The  Law  of  Tithing. 

Brethren  and  sisters:  In  taking  up 
the  Bible  this  morning,  I  was  very 
much  impressed  with  certain  words 
that  I  read  therein  which  touched  upon 
the  principle  of  obedience.  President 
Snow  this  morning  has  dwelt  somewhat 
upon  this  principle.  I  have  many  times 
thought  and  still  think  it  is  one  of  the 
cardinal  principles  of  the  Gospel.  We 
read  in  the  9th  chapter  of  I  Samuel 
that  God  designed  to  make  a  king  over 
Israel.  He  chose  a  young  man  by  the 
name  of  Saul,  the  son  of  Kish,  a  Ben- 
jaminite.  It  is  said  that  he  was  a 
choice  young  man,  and  there  was  not 
among  the  Children  of  Israel  a  goodlier 
person  than  he.  From  his  shoulders 
and  upward  he  was  higher  than  any 
of  the  people.  It  seems  that  the  father 
of  Saul  had  lost  his  mules,  and  he  sent 
his  son  Saul  in  search  of  them.  As  he 
went  forth  he  met  the  Prophet  Samuel, 
who  had  been  made  acquainted  with 
the  fact  that  God  had  selected  this 
young  man  to  be  king  over  Israel.  Sam- 
uel called  him  in  and  anointed  him 
to  be  king.  But  let  me  tell  you,  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  it  was  not  suf- 
ficient that  this  young  man  should  be 
a  choice  young  man,  of  fine  appearance 
and  taller  by  head  and  shoulders  than 
any  others  in  the  House  of  Israel,  but  in 
order  that  he  might  be  the  king  and 
a  servant  of  God,  a  change  must  come 
over  him.  Man  can  serve  man  by  the 
spirit  of  man,  but  in  order  to  be  a  serv- 
ant of  God  we  must  have  the  spirit  of 
God.  So  it  proved  to  be  in  this  in- 
stance, for  Samuel  instructed  Saul  that 
in  returning  to  his  parents  he  would 
come  up  with  a  company  of  prophets, 
and  that  he  should  join  the  prophets, 
and  that  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  would 
come  upon  him.  Samuel  further  said 
to  him: 

"And  thou  shalt  prophecy  with  them, 
and  shall  be  turned  into  another  man. 

"7.  And  let  it  be,  when  these  signs  are 
come  unto  thee,  that  thou  do  as  oc- 
casion serve  thee,  for  God  is  with  thee. 

"8.  And  thou  shalt  go  down  before  me 
to  Gilgal;  and  behold,  I  will  come  down 
unto  thee,  to  offer  burnt  offerings,  and 
to  sacrifice  sacrifices  of  peace  offerings; 
seven  days  shalt  thou  tarry,  till  I  come 
to  thee,  and  shew  thee  what  thou  shalt 
do." 


Now  mark  what  follows: 

"And  it  was  so  that  when  he  turned 
his  back  to  go  from  Samuel,  God  gave 
him  another  heart;  and  all  those  signs 
came  to  pass  that  day." 

We  can  see,  brethren  and  sisters,  how 
this  man  was  favored  of  God,  not  only 
in  being  called  to  be  king  and  in  pre- 
siding over  something  like  three  hun- 
dred thousand  people  (for  they  were 
numbered  in  those  days,  and  that  was 
said  to  be  the  number)  but  also  that  he 
should  receive  of  the  Lord  another 
heart  and  be  changed  into  a  new  man. 
Notwithstanding  this,  however,  there 
was  a  flaw  in  the  character  of  Saul 
that  proved  in  the  end  his  ruin. 

You  will  remember  that  Saul  was  in- 
structed to  go  down  to  Gilgal  and  to 
remain  there  seven  days,  when  the 
prophet  would  meet  him  there,  and  to- 
gether they  should  offer  burnt  offerings 
and  a  sacrifice  to  the  Lord,  and  upon 
that  occasion  also  the  prophet  was  to 
tell  him  what  the  Lord  required.  Saul 
went  down  to  the  place  appointed,  and 
he  waited  there  for  the  prophet,  but  the 
prophet  did  not  come  exactly  as  the 
king  expected.  He  may  possibly  have 
delayed  his  coming.  At  any  rate,  the 
king  became  nervous,  for  there  was 
some  disturbance  among  the  people  and 
the  Philistines  were  about  to  come 
against  them  in  battle.  So,  instead  of 
waiting  for  the  prophet,  Saul  under- 
took, of  his  own  authority,  to  offer  up 
burnt  offering  and  sacrifice,  contrary 
to  the  commandment  of  the  Lord.  When 
Samuel  came  down  he  said  to  Saul: 

"What  hast  thou  done?  And  Saul 
said,  because  I  saw  that  the  people  were 
scattered  from  me,  and  that  thou  earn- 
est not  within  the  days  appointed,  and 
that  the  Philistines  gathered  them- 
selves together  at  Michmash; 

"12.  Therefore  said  I,  the  Philistines 
will  come  down  now  upon  me  to  Gilgal, 
and  I  have  not  made  supplication  un- 
to the  Lord;  I  forced  myself,  therefore, 
and  offered  a  burnt  offering. 

"13.  And  Samuel  said  to  Saul,  thou 
hast  done  foolishly;  thou  hast  not  kept 
the  commandment  of  the  Lord  thy 
God,  which  he  commanded  thee;  for 
now  would  the  Lord  have  established 
thy  kingdom  upon  Israel  forever. 

"14.  But  now  thy  kingdom  shall  not 
continue;  the  Lord  hath  sought  him  a 
man  after  his  own  heart,  and  the  Lord 
hath  commanded  him  to  be  captain 
over  his  people,  because  thou  hast  not 
kept  that  which  the  Lord  commanded 
thee." 

Now  to  Saul  it  may  have  appeared  a 


4 


GENERAL*  CONFERENCE. 


very  simple  matter  that  he  should  not 
wait  the  coming  of  the  prophet.  Why 
could  not  he,  a  king,  make  offering  and 
supplication  to  the  Lord?  Why  should 
he  wait  for  the  coming  of  Samuel?  Be- 
cause it  was  the  will  and  commandment 
of  the  Lord,  and  he  did  not  obey  it. 
In  this  we  have  an  evidence  of  the 
goodness  of  God  in  one  way  and  of 
his  strictness  in  another  way.  The 
king  was  assured  by  the  prophet  that 
if  he  had  obeyed  the  commandment  of 
God,  his  kingdom  would  have  been  es- 
tablished over  Israel  forever;  but  that 
having  departed  therefrom,  his  kingdom 
should  not  continue.  We  have  another 
illustration  in  the  life  of  Saul  of  the 
great  importance  of  being  obedient  to 
the  commandment  of  the  Lord.  When 
the  Children  of  Israel  came  to  the 
promised  land  from  Egypt,  under  the 
guidance  of  the  Almighty,  on  one  oc- 
casion, when  they  were  weary  and 
footsore,  the  people  of  the  Amalikites 
came  out  against  them,  and  harassed 
them  upon  the  right  hand  and  upon  the 
left  and  slew  their  women  and  their 
children  and  their  tender  ones. 

Because  of  this  piece  of  treachery  and 
unfriendliness  to  a  people  who  had 
never  injured  them,  the  Lord  deter- 
mined that  they  should  be  destroyed, 
and  he  told  the  prophet  to  write  it 
down  in  a  book  of  remembrance,  that 
when  the  people  were  established  in  the 
promised  land  and  became  strong  they 
should  go  against  the  Amalikites  and 
carry  out  the  commandment  of  the 
Lord  with  respect  to  that  people.  Saul 
was  selected  by  the  prophet  to  perform 
this  duty.  He  was  told  to  gather  to- 
gether the  hosts  of  Israel  and  to  give 
battle  to  the  Amalikites.  He  was  com- 
manded to  destroy  them  from  the  face 
of  the  earth,  because  they  had  fought 
against  Israel  in  the  day  of  their  weak- 
ness and  trouble.  Saul  gathered  the 
hosts  of  Israel  and  went  against  them, 
and  destroyed  them.  But  it  is  said  in 
the  scriptures  that  Saul  and  the  people 
spared  Agag  the  king  and  the  best  of 
the  sheep  and  of  the  oxen  and  of  the 
fatlings  and  all  that  was  good,  but 
everything  that  was  vile  they  destroyed 
utterly.  Samuel  came  to  Saul,  and 
Saul  said  unto  him: 

"Yea,  I  have  obeyed  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  and  have  gone  the  way  which  the 
Lord  sent  me,  and  have  brought  Agag 


the  king,  and  have  utterly  destroyed 
the  Amalikites. 

"21.  But  the  People  took  of  the  spoil, 
sheep  and  oxen,  the  chief  of  the  things 
which  should  have  been  utterly  des- 
troyed, to  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy 
God  in  Gilgal. 

"22.  And  Samuel  said,  hath  the  Lord 
as  great  delight  in  burnt  offering  and 
sacrifices,  as  in  obeying  the  voice  of 
the  Lord?  Behold  to  obey  is  better 
than  sacrifice,  and  to  hearken  than  the 
fat  of  rams. 

"23.  For  rebellion  is  as  tne  sin  of 
witchcraft,  and  stubbornness  is  as  in- 
iquity and  idolatry." 

The  Lord  did  not  say  to  Saul  that 
there  was  anything  wrong  in  burnt  of- 
fering and  sacrifice,  but  he  said  that 
obedience  was  better  than  sacrifice. 

And  later  on  Samuel  said  unto  Saul, 
"I  will  not  return  with  thee;  for  thou 
hast  rejected  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  Lord  hath  rejected  thee  from  being 
king  over  Israel." 

In  another  place  it  is  said  that  the 
Lord  repented  that  he  made  Saul  king 
over  Israel,  because  he  had  forsaken 
him  and  failed  to  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

It  seems  to  me,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  we  can  draw  a  lesson  of  wisdom 
from  this  story  of  the  king  of  Israel. 
We  can  see  that  when  the  Lord  gives  a 
commandment  to  the  children  of  men 
He  requires  the  strictest  obedience  to 
that  command.  When  the  Lord  speaks 
he  means  something.  It  is  not  as  the 
conversation  of  one  man  with  another, 
when  we  do  not  weigh  our  words  and 
think  not  of  the  result  thereof,  but 
when  the  Lord  delivers  a  command- 
ment to  his  people  it  is  binding  upon 
them.  We  have  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  in  the  Bible,  in  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  in  other  Church  works, 
wherein  is  set  forth  the  mind  and  will 
of  the  Lord  unto  His  people.  Further- 
more, we  have  the  living  oracles;  we 
have  the  prophet  of  God  to  stand  forth 
in  the  midst  of  Israel  and  deliver  unto 
us  the  mind  and  will  of  God. 

The  Lord  has  said  in  these  last  days 
that  he  will  not  be  mocked,  and  that 
we  cannot  disregard  or  treat  lightly  his 
words.  We  know  that  many  troubles 
and  evils  have  come  upon  the  people 
from  time  to  time  because  of  the  dis- 
regard of  the  word  of  the  Lord.  We 
have  been  told,  publicly,  by  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  that  if  the  Latter- 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAW  SON. 


day  Saints  had  heeded  strictly  the  word 
of  the  Lord  delivered  to  them  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  they  would 
now  have  been  established  in  those 
eastern  lands  from  which  they  were 
driven,  and  would  be  today  the  wealthi- 
est community  upon  the  earth.  The 
Lord  would  have  watched  over  and  de 
livered  them  out  of  the  hands  of  theii 
enemies.  It  does  not  follow  either  thai 
if  they  had  been  obedient  to  the  com- 
mand of  God  they  would  not  have  been 
brought  to  this  land.  I  believe  they 
would  have  been  directed  to  this  favor- 
ed spot,  and  also  established  here  and 
blessed  abundantly.  No  doubt  some  of 
the  evils  under  which  we  are  struggling 
at  the  present  time  are  due  in  a  meas- 
ure to  our  disobedience,  for  we  have 
been  instructed  that  Zion  might  have 
been  redeemed  long  ago  if  the  Saints 
had  been  faithful. 

We  have  strayed  in  a  measure  from 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Some 
of  our  people  have  put  private  inter- 
pretations upon  the  laws  of  God.  Take 
the  law  of  tithing  for  instance.  It  is 
very  simple  and  easy  to  be  understood. 
Very  few  words  are  employed  by  the 
Lord  to  set  this  law  before  his  people. 
He  says  that  He  requires  of  his  Saints 
one-tenth  of  their  interest  annually.  It 
seems  to  me  that  every  man,  woman 
and  child  could  easily  determine  what 
their  interest  is  annually.  It  is  not  a 
command  of  man;  it  is  a  command  of 
our  Heavenly  Father.  I  have  no  right 
to  put  a  private  interpretation  upon  it, 
or  to  vary  from  it,  or  to  say  that  a 
man  is  entitled  to  figure  out  this  that 
and  the  other  until  he  has  nothing  to 
pay  tithing  on,  and  in  some  cases  until 
the  Lord  himself  is  brought  in  debt  to 
the  individual.  I  take  the  law  as  it 
comes  to  us  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  I  have  had  no  trouble 
in  determining  just  what  my  tithing  is. 
I  have  had  no  trouble  in  paying  my 
tithing  when  I  have  paid  it  as  I,  went 
along.  The  only  trouble  I  ever  experi- 
enced was  when  I  left  it  until  the  end 
of  the  year,  and  when  I  figured  it  up  it 
was  a  source  of  anxiety  to  me  as  to 
whether  I  had  paid  my  tithing  or  not. 
But  if  we  pay  it  as  we  go  along,  it  is 
a  simple  matter,  and  the  probabilities 
are  that  we  will  be  honest  in  it  with 
the  Lord.  It  is  so  with  all  of  the  com- 
mandments of  God. 


There  is  a  blessing  predicated  upon 
the  observance  of  every  commandment. 
We  cannot  ignore  it  or  depart  from  it 
or  change  it  to  suit  our  own  notions 
and  then  expect  to  obtain  the  blessings. 
The  Lord  does  His  part,  we  must  do 
ours.  So  I  have  rejoiced  in  contemplat- 
ing this  great  and  glorious  principle  of 
obedience.  It  has  strengthened  my 
faith.  It  has  caused  me  to  make  new 
resolves.  I  have  come  to  understand  a 
little  more  than  I  understood  last  week 
or  last  month,  the  strictness  of  the 
Lord  and  how  careful  He  is  that  his 
servants  and  people  should  obey  Him, 
a.nd  what  is  meant  when  it  is  said  that 
the  Lord  would  choose  a  man  after  his 
own  heart.  It  meant,  I  think,  that  He 
would  choose  a  man  who  would  obey  his 
commandments.  We  know  that  the 
Savior  was  a  man  after  the  Lord's  own 
heart.  We  are  told  that  if  we  would 
have  salvation  we  must  follow  the  ex- 
ample of  the  Savior,  and  the  great  dis- 
tinguishing quality  of  the  Savior  was 
his  obedience.  He  came  not  to  do  His 
own  will,  but  the  will  of  the  Father  in 
all  things.  We  too  should  feel  that  we 
are  not  here  to  do  our  own  will,  but 
the  will  of  the  Father.  With  respect 
to  tithing?  Yes.  With  respect  to  the 
Word  of  Wisdom?  Tea  With  respect 
to  faith,  repentance,  baptism  and  the 
laying  on  of  hands?  Yes.  With  respect 
to  all  the  great  commandments  which 
the  Lord  has  delivered  unto  us?  Yes. 
And  not  one  more  than  another. 

We  do  not  single  out  the  principle  of 
tithing  and  say  it  is  the  greatest  com- 
mandment God  has  given.  We  simply 
say,  it  is  a  commandment  of  God  and 
we  should  obey  it.  We  do  not  say  that 
a  man  will  be  saved  and  exalted  simply 
because  he  obeys  the  law  of  tithing. 
We  must  live  by  every  word  that  pro- 
ceedeth  forth  out  of  the  mouth  of  the 
Lord,  and  one  commandment  is  as 
sacred  as  another.  They  are  all  need- 
ful for  the  welfare  of  the  Church  and 
for  the  accomplishment  of  the  pur- 
poses of  God.  We  cannot  pick  and 
choose  and  say  we  will  keep  this  com- 
mandment because  it  is  pleasant  to  us 
and  we  wall  slight  another  because  it  is 
not  agreeable. 

I  pray  that  we  may  be  greatly  blessed 
in  our  conference;  that  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  may  rest  down  mightily  upon  the 
President  of  the  Church  and  upon  the 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


brethren  who  shall  be  called  to  address 
the  people,  that  we  may  be  edified  and 
strengthened,  encouraged  and  renewed 
in  our  faith.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

Advantages  of  Colonization  and  Manual  Labor. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  standing  be- 
fore you  this  morning  I  assure  you  I 
feel  very  dependent  upon  the  spirit  of 
the  Lord  to  give  me  utterance.  With- 
out that  spirit  I  feel  that  it  would  be 
unprofitable  for  me  and  my  brethren 
to  occupy  the  short  time  allotted  to  us 
in  conference,  where  there  is  so  much 
to  be  spoken  of  and  so  much  business 
to  be  transacted  pertaining  to  this  great 
people.  Therefore  I  pray  that  the  Lord 
may  bring  to  my  memory  some  things 
that  I  have  had  upon  my  mind,  and 
which  I  desire  to  speak  a  few  words  up- 
on. I  will  read  a  portion  of  the  58th 
section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants: 

"26.  For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I 
should  command  in  all  things,  for  he 
that  is  compelled  in  all  things,  the 
same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  serv- 
ant; wherefore  he  receiveth  no  reward. 

"27.  Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anx- 
iously engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and 
bring  to  pass  much  righteousness; 

"28.  For  the  power  is  in  them,  where- 
in they  are  agents  unto  themselves. 
And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they 
shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"29.  But  he  that  doeth  not  anything 
until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth 
a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart, 
and  keepeth  it  with  slothf ulness,  the 
same  is  damned." 

These  are  the  words  of  the  Lord  unto 
this  people  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  they  are  applicable  to  us  at 
this  time.  As  a  people,  I  believe  that 
when  the  prophet  of  God  stands  before 
us  and  says  "thus  saith  the  Lord,"  we 
all  feel  in  our  hearts  that  he  is  speak- 
ing the  mind  and  will  of  God.  How- 
ever united  we  may  be  in  this  respect 
and  in  other  duties  that  devolve  upon 
us,  we  are  not  as  united  as  we  ought  to 
be. 

I  hold  that  the  Latter-day  Saint  who 
goes  out  from  the  crowded  cities,  takes 
up  a  portion  of  mother  earth,  and  seeks 
to  establish  a  home  upon  that  piece  of 
ground,  is  just  as  much  engaged  in  the 
building  up  of  Zion  and  in  the  work 


of  the  Lord  as  they  who  go  out  into  the 
world  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus.  For  our  spiritual  salvation 
would  not  amount  to  very  much  if  it 
were  not  coupled  with  our  temporal  sal- 
vation. We  have  the  battle  of  life  to 
contend  with,  as  well  as  the  battle  for 
salvation  in  the  world  to  come.  I  feel 
that  there  is  not  altogether  the  united 
effort  among  the  people  of  the  Lord 
that  there  ought  to  be  in  our  coloniza- 
tion matters.  I  deprecate  the  tendency 
that  appears  to  be  increasing  among 
the  young  Latter-day  Saints  to  rather 
earn  a  livelihood  in  an  easy  manner, 
by  the  use  of  the  pen  at  the  bookkeep- 
er's desk,  or  the  use  of  the  scissors  be- 
hind the  dry  goods  counter,  than  to  go 
out  and  assist  in  the  great  colonization 
that  devolves  upon  this  people.  I  do 
not  feel  that  it  is  the  duty  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  to  seek  their  own  ease. 
The  man  who  chooses  a  life  of  ease 
rather  than  one  which  will  bring  him- 
self and  his  muscle  in  conflict  with  the 
sterility  of  the  soil,  does  not  develop 
within  his  heart  the  love  of  God  as 
much  as  does  the  pioneer  who  goes 
forth  with  a  desire  to  build  up  Zion 
materially.  It  is  true,  we  are  not  all 
fitted  for  the  same  avocations  in  life, 
but  I  have  noted  in  traveling  among  the 
people  who  are  the  colonizers  of  today 
that  in  many  instances  their  sons  and 
daughters  have  a  desire  to  make  an 
easy  living.  They  do  not  desire  to  stay 
on  the  farm  and  to  labor  as  their  fath- 
ers and  mothers  have  done.  They  lose 
sight  of  the  fact  that  brains  can  be 
used  in  the  colonization  of  new  coun- 
tries and  in  the  cultivation  of  the  soil 
as  well  as  in  callings  to  be  found  in  the 
city.  It  is  true,  that  in  any  avocation 
in  life  there  is  always  room  at  the  top; 
but  it  is  not  easy  for  young  men  and 
women  to  come  in  from  the  country  and 
make  a  good  living  in  the  cities.  Very 
often  we  find  them,  after  they  have 
labored  five  or  ten  years,  without  a 
home  and  without  anything  laid  up  for 
their  future  welfare.  They  may  have 
had  a  pretty  easy  time  of  it;  they  may 
have  been  able  to  take  advantage  of  the 
theatres,  the  pleasure  resorts,  etc.,  but 
they  have  not  made  any  material  ad- 
vancement. It  is  my  firm  belief  that  if 
this  spirit  prevails  among  the  young 
Latter-day  Saints,  it  will  only  be  a  mat- 
ter of  a  generation  or  two  until  our 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


people  will  be  the  employed  and  not  the 
employers.  There  should  be  a  spirit  in- 
stilled into  the  hearts  of  those  who  at- 
tend the  Colleges  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  at  any  rate,  to  create  employ- 
ment, rather  than  to  seek  employment. 
We  have  learned  by  experience  that  it 
amounts  to  but  very  little  to  go  out 
into  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  to  the  people,  and 
then  bring  them  to  these  cities  where 
they  are  not  able  to  gain  for  themselves 
a  livelihood.  Very  often  bad  results 
have  arisen  from  this  condition.  There 
should  be  as  great  a  desire  to  possess 
the  earth  and  to  become  employers  as 
there  should  be  to  go  out  and  preach 
the  Gospel.  I  do  not  know  the  reason 
of  it,  but  it  almost  appears  as  if  the 
young  people  of  today  abhorred  the 
thought  of  using  the  hammer  or  the 
plane,  or  becoming  connected  with  any 
business  that  entails  hard  work.  The 
desire  appears  to  be  to  make  a  living 
by  the  head,  and  not  with  the  body 
and  brain  combined.  I  feel  that  this 
is  wrong,  for  in  time  it  will  create  a 
one-sided  education.  It  seems  to  me 
that  now  is  a  good  time  to  urge  upon 
the  fathers  and  mothers  to  teach  their 
sons  and  daughters  that  farm 
life  and  the  life  of  the  col- 
onizer and  pioneer  is  not  all 
drudgery,  but  that  there  are  many 
advantages  connected  with  it.  The  days 
of  colonizing  by  this  people  are  by  no 
means  past. 

There  are  vast  tracts  of  land  which 
I  believe  the  God  of  Heaven  has  kept 
in  reserve  for  this  people.  They  only 
wait  the  diversion  of  the  streams  from 
their  natural  courses  to  transform  them 
into  thrifty  farms  and  settlements.  I 
believe  that  for  a  long  time  to  come 
this  country  will  furnish  to  our  people 
places  where  the  climate  is  good,  where 
there  is  an  abundance  of  water  and 
land,  where  they  can  make  good  homes 
for  themselves,  and  where,  after  a  few 
years  of  hard  labor,  they  will  be  able 
to  give  employment  to  others.  They 
will  not  always  have  their  "nose  on  the 
grindstone,"  nor  will  they  be  under  the 
necessity  of  walking  the  streets  and 
begging  employment  of  other  people. 
There  is  scarcely  a  day  passes,  when  I 
am  in  the  city,  but  some  one  comes  to 
me  who  desires  employment,  or  better 
employment  than  he  already  has. 


A  great  many  of  those  who  are  em- 
ployed in  this  city  at  the  present  time 
are  spending  more  than  they  are  mak- 
ing. It  may  be  partially  on  account  of 
extravagant  habits  that  we  have  ac- 
quired in  the  last  few  years.  But  it  is 
nevertheless  a  very  unsatisfactory  sit- 
uation. Where  people  are  busily  en- 
gaged and  have  plenty  to  do,  they  are 
generally  contented.  If  we  will  labor 
each  day  so  that  at  the  end  of  the  day 
we  can  feel  that  we  have  accomplished 
something,  we  are  able  to  lie  down  at 
night  and  partake  of  the  God-given  rest 
that  comes  to  a  tired  body.  But,  as  I 
have  stated,  very  often  the  desire  is  to 
avoid  this  kind  of  life,  and  to  shun 
labor  which  would  soil  our  hands.  This 
is  not  the  spirit  of  the  latter-day  work. 
If  our  people  do  not  take  advantage  of 
the  vast  tracts  of  land  that  are  around 
us,  and  make  Latter-day  Saint  homes 
thereon,  we  will  ultimately  find  our- 
selves surrounded  by  a  people  not  of 
us,  who  will  possess  the  earth  and  take 
advantage  of  these  opportunities  that 
we  are  allowing  to  pass  by,  apparently 
unheeded.  I  believe  that  it  is  a  righte- 
ous desire  for  a  Latter-day  Saint  to 
wish  to  possess  some  of  God's  earth; 
and  mothers  and  fathers  can  do  much 
better  with  their  children,  so  far  as 
rearing  them  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  concerned,  upon  the 
farm,  where  they  can  furnish  them  em- 
ployment, than  in  the  crowded  cities, 
where  they  might  have  to  walk  the 
streets  without  employment  and  have 
nothing  to  occupy  their  minds  but  evil. 
There  are  many  young  Latter-day 
Saints  today  being  led  away  in  this 
manner,  and  I  believe  that  one  cause  of 
this  is  the  fact  that  we  are  neglecting 
as  a  people  to  make  use  of  the  soil,  the 
streams  of  water,  and  the  elements 
which  surround  us. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  these  are 
things  that  it  would  be  well  for  us  to 
consider.  I  feel  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  need  more  blacksmiths,  more 
mechanics,  more  colonizers,  more  young 
men  and  young  women  who  are  not 
afraid  to  go  out  and  battle  with  the 
elements,  and  take  advantage  of  the 
opportunities  which  God  has  placed 
within  our  reach,  as  our  fathers  and 
mothers  have  done.  It  has  made  good 
men  and  good  women  of  them.  They 
engaged  in  occupations  that  today  are 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


considered  undesirable,  but  they  are 
better  men  and  women  than  we  are. 
We  ought  to  desire  to  build  up  the  ma- 
terial Zion;  and  while  we  may  not  be 
commanded  in  these  things,  we  should, 
as  the  revelation  which  I  have  read 
says,  be  willing  to  do  many  things  of 
our  own  free  will  and  choice. 

Where  our  people  have  gone  forth  in 
organized  bodies,  in  accordance  with 
counsel,  to  settle  up  new  countries,  they 
have  been  able  to  accomplish  much. 
But  where  they  have  gone  without  the 
advice  of  their  Bishop,  or  without  the 
knowledge  of  the  President  of  their 
Stake,  they  have  contended  one  with 
another,  have  been  disunited,  and  in  al- 
most every  instance  have  made  a  fail- 
ure of  their  canals  and  their  coloniza- 
tion in  general.  Where,  however,  they 
have  followed  the  counsels  of  the  serv- 
ants of  the  Lord  they  have  been  pros- 
pered, they  have  become  a  wealthy  and 
industrious  people,  and  their  sons  and 
daughters  have  become  men  and  wo- 
men of  muscle  and  brain. 

May  God  grant  that  we  may  improve 
in  respect  to  some  of  these  things;  that 
we  may  be  a  people  who  will  keep  con- 
stantly in  view  the  necessity  of  union; 
that  we  may  seek  to  support  one  an- 
other materially  as  well  as  spiritually; 
that  we  may  desire  to  build  up  one  an- 
other and  thus  build  up  the  kingdom 
of  God;  that  we  may  eliminate  the 
spirit  of  selfishness  from  our  hearts, 
and  that  we  may  grow  and  increase  in 

the  knowledge  of  God  and  his  pur- 
poses. This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

Importance  of  General  Conference — Ti  e  Sphere 
and  Regulation  of  Temporal  Affairs— Need  for 
Efficient  Elders  In  the  Mis.-ionary  Field. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grati- 
fied for  the  privilege  of  being  with  you 
at  this  conference,  and  especially  for 
the  opportunity  of  being  instructed  by 
my  brethren.  I  recognize  the  fact  that 
I  am  always  in  need  of  instruction  and 
admonition.  I  believe  that  this  is  the 
case  with  all  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
That  we  may  be  fed  with  the  bread  of 
life,  particularly  with  that  portion  of 
it  which  is  adapted  to  the  immediate 
wants  of  the  Saints,  is  the  object  of 
this  general  conference.  The  Church 
is  sixty-nine  and  a  half  years  of  age 


today;  and  while  the  congregation  does 
not  entirely  fill  this  tabernacle,  it  is 
very  large  compared  with  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  on  the  6th  day  of 
April,  1830.  Soon  after  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  we  are  informed,  by  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  conferences 
were  inaugurated  and  it  was  enjoined 
by  revelation  that  the  various  branches 
of  the  Church  should  send  representa- 
tive men  to  the  conference,  that  they 
might,  if  called  upon,  represent  the 
condition  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in 
their  respective  branches,  and  also  that 
they  might  partake  of  the  spirit  which 
actuated  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  and 
his  associates. 

The  importance  of  these  conferences 
should  be  impressed  upon  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  throughout  the  Stakes  of 
Zion;  and  I  believe  that  the  spirit  of 
them  is  extended  to  the  various  nations 
of  the  earth.  I  know  that  when  I  have 
been  abroad  preaching  thj  Gospel,  and 
a  conference  has  occurred  during  my 
absence,  I  have  felt  the  spirit  of  the 
occasion.  Though  I  have  been  absent 
in  body,  I  have  been  present  in  spirit.  I 
have  rejoiced  in  occasions  of  this  char- 
acter, though  thousands  of  miles  away 
from  them. 

When  Brother  Rudger  Clawson  read 
from  the  scriptures  this  morning,  I  was 
reminded  of  a  statement  made  in  the 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which 
I  will  read.   It  is  in  Section  59: 

"Behold,  blessed,  saith  the  Lord,  are 
they  who  have  come  up  unto  this  land 
with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory,  accord- 
ing to  my  commandments." 

This  was  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  at  the  time  the  Saints  were  as- 
sembled in  Jackson  County,  Missouri, 
that  land  having  been  designated  by  the 
Lord  as  the  great  central  gathering 
place  of  the  Saints  of  God  in  this  dis- 
pensation; and  the  expression  in  this 
paragraph:  "Blessed  saith  the  Lord 
are  they  that  have  come  up  unto  this 
land  with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory," 
is  very  indicative.  The  importance  of  it 
is  demonstrated  in  subsequent  history 
.of  the  efforts  of  the  Saints  of  God  to 
lestablish  Zion  in  Jackson  County;  for  in 
ithe  inception  of  this  work  the  Lord 
Jcommunicated  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
'Smith  all  the  keys  and  authority  and 
every  essential  for  the  complete  estab- 
lishment and  accomplishment    of  the 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


9 


work  of  God  in  the  last  days,  and  this 
included  the  principle  of  union.  Brother 
Woodruff  has  been  speaking  to  us  this 
morning  relative  to  the  necessity  of  our 
having  material  interest  in  the  work  of 
God.  I  believe,  indeed,  I  know,  that  if 
we  confined  our  worship  to  the  mere 
singing  of  hymns  and  the  delivering  of 
religious  sermons,  the  Saints  of  God 
would  die  temporally;  and  if  it  were 
all  temporal,  they  would  die  spiritually. 
That  which  is  esteemed  temporal  and 
which  is  deprecated  in  the  estimation 
of  the  religious  world  is  sanctioned  in 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  from  the  fact 
that  all  things  are  spiritual  with  God. 
We  read  in  the  revelations  of  God,  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  this  saying  of  the 
Lord: 

"Wherefore,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
that  all  things  unto  me  are  spiritual, 
and  not  at  any  time  have  I  given  unto 
you  a  law  which  is  temporal." 

In  the  establishment  of  this  work  the 
Lord  designed  to  communicate  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  those  principles 
which  should  control  and  govern  them 
in  all  the  temporal  transactions  of  life. 
Every  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  can  understand  the 
necessity  of  this.  I  maintain  that  it  is 
an  impossibility  for  men  to  be  engaged 
for  six  days  in  the  week  in  the  business 
transactions  of  life  and  to  be  controlled 
by  the  principles  which  obtain  in  the 
world,  and  enjoy  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel 
upon  the  Sabbath  day  and  to  worship 
Almighty  God  acceptably.  The  trouble 
with  us  is  to  a  certain  extent,  we  are 
Latter-day  Saints  religiously,  but  Gen- 
tiles financially.  We  are  not  controlled 
in  the  business  affairs  of  life  by  that 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  which  blesses  and 
sanctifies  all  temporal  transactions  and 
makes  them  spiritual  in  the  sight  of 
God.  In  my  travels  among  the  people 
I  have  felt  that  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  delivered  by  the  Messiah,  was 
the  choicest  sermon  that  ever  fell  from 
the  lips  of  any  earthly  being.  It  is 
found  in  the  5th,  6th  and  7th  chapters 
of  Matthew  and  also  in  the  third  book 
of  Nephi.  The  injunctions  He  there 
gave  are  practical,  essential,  and  adapt- 
ed to  the  wants  of  the  people  of  God,  in 
every  dispensation  and  in  every  part 
of  the  earth.  The  Lord  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  principles 
upon  which  the  Zion  of  God  could  be 


established  and  perpetuated.  He  made 
known  unto  him  that  there  should  be 
a  common  interest  in  the  things  of  God; 
that  every  talent  should  be  blessed  and 
sanctified  to  the  establishment  of  the 
work  of  God  upon  the  earth;  that  no 
matter  what  might  be  the  peculiar 
gifts  bestowed  upon  the  individual,  they 
should  all  be  used  in  the  accomplish- 
ment of  the  purposes  of  God.  As  a  peo- 
ple we  are  diversely  gifted. 

I  remember  reading  a  revelation  in 
this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
wherein  the  Lord  says  that  He  would 
not  make  the  Prophet  Joseph  mighty 
in  temporal  things,  because  his  work 
was  in  another  direction.  He  was  en- 
trusted with  the  keys  and  the  revela- 
tions of  God,  many  of  which  had  been 
kept  hid  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world,  and  He  laid  the  foundation  of 
this  work  and  gave  revelations  which 
would  enable  his  successors  and  the 
people  of  God  for  many  years  to  build 
upon  it.  The  Lord  revealed  to  him  what 
we  call  the  United  Order,  by  which  all 
the  time  and  all  the  talents  of  all  the 
Saints  of  God  should  be  employed  for 
the  general  benefit  of  the  cause.  I  re- 
member reading  in  this  book  of  a 
branch  of  the  Church  that  had  come  up 
from  Colesville,  in  the  State  of  New 
York,  and  they  had  made  a  solemn 
covenant  with  the  Lord  that  they  would 
consecrate  their  property  to  His  cause, 
but  they  broke  that  covenant,  and  it 
was  a  very  serious  sin  in  the  sight  of 
God.  They  had  broken  a  solemn  pledge, 
and  they  were  made  to  realize  the  ful- 
fillment of  the  saying  that  God  would 
not  be  mocked,  although  it  may  not 
bave  been  so  serious  and  swift  a  judg- 
ment as  that  pronounced  upon  Ananias 
and  Sapphira  in  the  days  of  the  Apos- 
tles. The  effort  was  made  then  to  es- 
tablsh  the  United  Order.  Jesus  sought 
to  establish  the  work  of  God  more  fully 
than  the  house  of  Judah  would  accept 
it.  You  remember  that  He  said  to 
them: 

"O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that 
killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often 
would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  to- 
gether, even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her 
chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would 
not. 

"38.  Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto 
you  desolate. 

"39.  For  I  say  unto  you,  ye  shall  not 
see  me  henceforth,   till  ye  shall  say, 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


blessed  is  he  that  cometh  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord." 

The  day  is  coming  when  they  will  be 
willing  to  accept  the  principle  of  gath- 
ering which  they  then  rejected.  But, 
as  I  have  said,  the  effort  was  made 
to  establish  the  principles  of  the  United 
Order  subsequent  to  the  ascension  of 
Jesus.  They  had,  it  is  said,  all  things 
in  common.  On  one  occasion  Ananias 
came  to  the  Apostle  Peter  ostensibly  to 
consecrate  all  that  he  had  received 
under  the  blessings  of  the  Almighty. 
The  scriptures  inform  us  that  he  and 
his  wife  had  sold  a  possession  and  he 
brought  a  certain  part  of  it  and  laid  it 
at  the  feet  of  the  Apostle  Peter,  who 
was  the  Presiding  Apostle  of  the 
Church  and  who  had  received  the  keys 
not  only  to  baptize  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  to  lay  on  hands  for  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  and  to  administer  the 
sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper,  but 
also  to  administer  in  those  things  that 
pertain  to  the  celestial  kingdom  here 
upon  this  earth.  Now  Peter,  under  the 
influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  discerned 
that  the  man  was  not  honest  in  his  of- 
fering, and  he  said  unto  him: 

"Ananias,  why  hath  Satan  filled  thine 
heart  to  lie  to  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  to 
keep  back  part  of  the  price  of  the  land? 

"While  it  remained,  was  It  not  thine 
own?  And  after  it  was  sold,  was  it  not 
in  thine  own  power?  Why  hast  thou 
conceived  this  thing  in  thine  heart? 
Thou  hast  not  lied  unto  men,  but  unto 
God. 

"And  Ananias,  hearing  these  words, 
fell  down,  and  gave  up  the  Ghost." 

Shortly  afterwards  his  wife  came  in, 
and  she  also  lied  in  relation  to  this 
business.  These  are  principles  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  are  attended 
by  the  power  of  God,  if  they  are  ob- 
served. But  they  are  attended  by  the 
judgments  of  God  if  they  are  violated. 
These  principles  were  carried  out  in  the 
City  of  Enoch  until  the  city  was  trans- 
lated. They  were  carried  out  for  a  few 
generations  upon  this  continent  by  the 
Nephites,  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  tells 
us  that  not  one  of  that  generation  was 
lost,  because  they  were  equal  before  the 
Lord  and  labored  for  the  same  end. 
The  Lord  revealed  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  the  same  principles.  The  Saints 
of  God  failed  to  carry  them  out  be- 
cause of  selfishness.  The  Lord  re- 
vealed that  Zion  never  could  be  redeem- 
ed, only   by    the   law   of  consecration. 


Because  the  people  were  not  prepared 
to  receive  and  obey  it,  Joseph  Smith 
and  Oliver  Cowdery  besought  the  Lord 
to  know  what  He  required  at  their 
hands  as  a  tithing.  As  a  result  of  that 
condition,  He  gave  the  law  of  tithing 
wherein  is  required  a  tenth  of  all  the 
interest  of  the  people  annually.  The 
Lord  specified  what  the  tithing  should 
be  used  for,  and  that  it  should  be  dis- 
bursed under  the  direction  of  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  peo- 
ple who  came  to  Zion  without  having 
an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God  lost 
their  right  to  an  inheritance.  When 
they  came  up  with  sinister  motives, 
and  their  hearts  were  not  devoted  to  the 
work  of  God,  they  suffered  the  disap- 
proval of  the  Almighty.  The  same 
statement  will  apply  to  us  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains.  We  have 
been  led  here  by  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty.  The  same  inspiration  has 
controlled  and  guided  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church  in  locating  these  Stakes 
of  Zion,  these  cities  and  towns,  through- 
out the  length  and  breadth  of  this  in- 
ter-mountain country. 

God  has  blessed  us  with  abundance. 
The  great  majority  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  own  their  own  homes.  If  you 
were  to  ask  them  how  many  of  them 
owned  their  own  homes  in  their  native 
lands,  possibly  four-fifths  of  them 
would  say  that  they  did  not.  If  you 
were  to  ask  them  how  many  of  them 
conducted  a  profitable  business  of  their 
own  before  they  came  here,  four-fifths 
would  perhaps  have  to  give  the  same 
answer.  Yet  in  the  prosperity  that  has 
attended  us  in  the  establishment  of  our 
cities,  towns  and  in  the  building  up  of 
the  Stakes  of  Zion  in  this  country,  we 
have  not  manifested  the  gratitude  to 
God  for  his  choice  blessings  which  we 
ought  to  have  done.  We  have  an 
abundance  of  blessings,  especially  of  a 
temporal  character,  and  we  ought  to 
be  willing  to  comply  with  the  require- 
ments that  are  made  of  us,  and  honestly 
and  completely  pay  our  tithing  and  our 
offerings. 

I  rejoice  in  this  work.  I  rejoice  in 
bearing  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel  and  that  we  have  a  Prophet  of 
God  standing  at  our  head  today — Presi- 
dent Lorenzo  Snow — who  enjoys  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  whose 


ELDER  ANTHON  H  LUND. 


11 


counsel  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  comes 
from  the  Lord.  May  God  help  us  to 
carry  it  out,  and  to  exemplify  in  our 
lives  the  principles  which  we  testify 
God  has  restored  to  the  earth  in  these 
last  days.  I  wish  to  urge  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  teach  their  sons  and  theii 
daughters  the  principles  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  There  is  a  great  neces- 
sity today,  in  the  various  missions 
abroad,  for  efficient  men  to  preach  the 
Gospel  and  to  represent  the  people  of 
God.  Many  of  the  young  men  that  go 
from  our  Stakes  of  Zion  to  preach  the 
Gospel  have  not  studied  it.  They  have 
not  taken  advantage  of  the  opportuni- 
ties afforded  them  in  the  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association,  in  the  Sunday 
school  and  in  other  organizations.  I 
am  sorry  to  say  that  some  of  them  have 
been  grossly  neglected  by  their  parents. 
I  have  found  Elders  who  did 
not  believe  in  some  of  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel.  They  said  they 
had  not  been  taught  to  them  and  they 
had  been  neglected  by  their  parents. 
They  had  been  engaged  in  herding 
sheep  and  other  avocations,  and  had 
not  taken  pains  to  prepare  themselves. 
The  result  was  there  was  one  principle 
of  the  Gospel,  at  least,  that  they  did 
not  understand,  and  consequently  they 
did  not  teach  or  defend  it.  To  my  mind 
this  was  a  very  sorrowful  condition, 
and  it  cast  reflection  upon  the  parents 
and  teachers  of  those  Elders.  I  do  not 
suppose  that  there  is  a  mission  upon 
the  earth  that  would  not  desire  to  have 
more  Elders  than  they  now  have,  es- 
pecially Elders  who  are  better  qualified 
and  more  thoroughly  indoctrinated  in 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  more 
thoroughly  imbued  with  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost  before  they  leave 
their  homes  and  shoulder  the  responsi- 
bility of  carrying  the  message  of  eter- 
nal life  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I 
know  this  is  the  case  in  the  United 
States.  I  have  recently  had  the  privi- 
lege of  visiting  with  President  Kelch 
the  conferences  of  the  Northern  States 
Mission,  and  I  found  the  Elders  labor- 
ing earnestly  to  spread  the  Gospel 
among  the  people  of  that  region. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  heed  the 
instructions  that  are  given  to  us  at  this 
conference  and  endeavor  to  apply  them 
to  our  lives,  that  we  may  profit  thereby. 


God  help  us  to  do  so,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
"From  afar,  gracious  Lord, 
Thou  hast  gathered  Thy  flock." 
Benediction  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Can- 
non. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

"High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled; 
Ye  nations  now  look  up, 
It  waves  to  all  the  world." 
Prayer  by  Elder  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin. 

"Glorious  things  of  thee  are  spoken, 

Zion,  city  of  our  God! 
He  whose  word  cannot  be  broken, 
Chose  thee  for  His  own  abode," 
was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Benefit  of  Having  the  Livln?  Oracles— The  Way  to 
the  Tree  of  Life— The  Oral  and  the  Written 
Word  of  God— Fulfillment  of  \neient  and 
Modern  Revelation — The  Law  of  Tithing. 

I  hope  I  shall  be  able  to  make  myself 
heard  by  this  vast  congregation.  I 
was  very  much  interested  in  the  re- 
marks of  our  brethren  this  forenoon, 
and  the  subjects  they  touched  upon  are 
of  great  value  and  importance  to  us  as 
a  people.  When  Brother  Cowley  spoke 
he  alluded  to  the  blessings  we  have  re- 
ceived in  having  the  living  word  of  God 
in  our  midst  and  the  Prophet  of  God 
to  lead  us.  It  made  me  think,  do  we 
really  appreciate  this  great  blessing  of 
having  inspired  men  in  our  midst  to 
lead  us?  Do  we  give  heed  to  their 
counsel  and  advice?  The  brethren  have 
dwelt  upon  the  importance  of  paying 
heed  unto  the  Lord's  commandments 
to  His  people.  When  He  commands, 
He  desires  His  children  to  obey.  Obedi- 
ence to  the  Father's  will  is  a  principle 
that  we  must  all  learn.  He  has  not 
left  us  in  the  dark  in  regard  to  what  He 
wants  us  to  do.  I  believe  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  more  faith  and  a 
stronger  testimony  than  any  other  peo- 
ple. They  received  this  strong  testi- 
mony when  the  hands  of  the  servants 
of  God  were  laid  upon  their  heads. 
They  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  which 
leads  into  all  truth  and  makes  known 
the  Father's  will.  So  that,  while  we 
have  inspired  men  in  our  midst  to  give 
us  the  word  of  the  Lord,  we  are  not  de- 


12 


GENERAL  CONEEREA  CE. 


pendent  upon  that  alone.  The  Lord  has 
given  unto  us  His  Holy  Spirit  to  wit- 
ness unto  our  spirits  whether  that 
which  is  given  us  is  right  or  not.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  who  perform  their 
duty  are  not  in  the  dark  in  regard  to 
the  counsel  which  they  receive.  When 
it  comes  from  the  servants  of  God  unto 
them  the  Holy  Spirit  gives  them  a  tes- 
timony that  it  is  true. 

Lehi  of  old  had  a  beautiful  dream. 
He  saw  the  world  spread  before  him. 
He  stood  by  a  tree — the  tree  of  life — 
enjoyed  its  precious  fruit  and  saw  how 
multitudes  were  hurrying  to  get  to  that 
tree.  He  saw  that  there  was  a  mist 
came  down  that  obscured  the  tree  of 
life  from  the  view  of  the  multitude. 
They  wanted  to  reach  it,  but  this  dark- 
ness or  mist  prevented  them  from  see- 
ing it.  The  Lord,  however,  had  pro- 
vided means  whereby  they  could  reach 
it.  There  was  a  path  leading  to  the 
tree  and  at  the  side  of  it  a  rod  of  iron. 
By  taking  hold  of  this  and  following 
it,  although  they  were  not  able  to  see 
the  tree,  but  believing  what  had  been 
told  them,  that  this  rod  led  to  the  tree 
of  life,  many  found  it.  But  many 
would  not  take  hold  of  the  iron  rod,  and 
they  went  astray  and  did  not  reach  the 
tree  with  its  precious  fruit.  Lehi  saw 
also  how  that  the  greater  number  were 
walking  on  the  other  side  of  a  river, 
which  divided  them  from  the  tree  of 
life.  They  went  to  a  spacious  building. 
He  saw  his  own  children,  Laman  and 
Lemuel,  and  He  feared  for  them  when 
he  saw  that  they  did  not  come  where 
he  was.  His  wife  and  his  other  child- 
ren, shared  with  him  the  blessing  of 
partaking  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of 
life.  This  iron  rod,  it  was  explained, 
is  the  word  of  God.  By  taking  hold 
of  that  we  need  not  go  astray.  Al- 
though we  may  have  to  look  forward 
with  the  eye  of  faith,  holding  to  the 
iron  rod  we  will  be  just  as  safe  as  if 
there  were  no  mist. 

We  are  blessed,  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  having  the  word  of  God  in  our 
midst;  not  only  the  written  word,  but 
also  the  living  word  of  God.  We  are 
thankful  that  we  have  so  much  of  the 
written  word  of  God  in  our  midst. 
While  we  do  not  look  upon  the  Bible  as 
many  Protestants  do,  still  we  have  just 
as  great  reverence  for  it  as  they  have. 
We  have  just  as  great  a  testimony, 


and  greater,  that  it  contains  the  word 
of  God.  We  revere  its  contents,  and  we 
are  trying  to  carry  them  out  in  our 
lives.  We  have  testimony  of  the  truth 
of  the  Bible  from  other  sources,  which 
the  world  do  not  accept,  however.  But 
the  book  itself  proves  to  us  that  it  is 
genuine.  Its  own  prophecies,  fulfilled 
since  it  was  written,  prove  to  us  that 
it  is  a  book  containing  the  word  of  God. 
Look  at  Daniel's  prophecy.  In  what  a 
nutshell  is  the  history  of  the  future 
portrayed  there?  We  could  not  any 
better  describe  it  -today,  after  we  have 
followed  history  down  for  more  than 
two  thousand  years.  Daniel's  prophe- 
cies are  like  history  written  before- 
hand, showing  that  they  were  inspired. 
The  words  of  Jesus  have  been  fulfilled 
since  they  were  written  and  given  to 
the  world.  In  Matthew  we  have  a  clear 
prophecy  concerning  the  Temple  and 
the  City  of  Jerusalem.  How  deeply  I 
felt  impressed  when  I  sat  on  Mount 
Olivet  and  looked  down  upon  the  Tem- 
ple ground.  I  thought  of  the  prediction 
that  not  one  stone  of  that  building 
should  be  left  upon  another.  This  was 
uttered  when  Jerusalem  was  flourish- 
ing. It  seemed  an  impossibility  that 
such  a  phophecy  could  be  fulfilled,  but 
within  forty  years  it  came  to  pass.  The 
Temple,  built  of  large  masses  of  rock, 
was  entirely  destroyed,  the  stones  car- 
ried away  and  the  Temple  ground 
plowed,  so  as  to  obliterate  any  trace  of 
the  Temple.  It  was  considered  policy 
by  a  Roman  emperor  to  do  this,  but  it 
was  the  fulfillment  of  a  prophecy  of 
Jesus.  We  look  upon  the  Bible  as  con- 
taining the  word  of  God  written  to 
those  of  old,  but  much  of  it  in  a  general 
way  applies  to  us. 

We  also  believe  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon to  contain  the  word  of  God.  We 
look  at  its  contents  and  we  find  that  it 
contains  internal  evidences  of  its  truth, 
that  it  sets  forth,  which  also  show  that 
it  is  a  divinely  inspired  book.  Take 
the  tenth  chapter  of  second  Nephi,  and 
you  will  find  that  in  that  book,  which 
was  published  to  the  world  some 
months  before  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  organized,  prophecies  con- 
cerning our  time.  It  alludes  to  this 
land;  it  designates  it  as  the  land  of 
Zion  and  tells  how  the  Gentiles  shall 
come  and  enjoy  liberty  here;  that  there 
shall  be  no  king  here,  and  that  thos^ 


ELDER  AATHON  H.  LUND. 


13 


who  fight  against  Zion  shall  not  suc- 
ceed. The  prediction  that  there  shall 
be  no  kings  upon  the  land  has  been 
fulfilled  even  in  our  day.  "When  I  read 
of  Dom  Pedro  of  Brazil  having  been 
dethroned,  and  the  report  went  forth 
that  being  so  popular  he  might  again 
take  the  reigns  of  government  over 
that  state,  I  said  that  I  did  not  believe 
'that  he  would  do  so.  I  believed  that 
the  words  uttered  by  Nephi,  six  hun- 
dred years  before  Christ,  would  be  ful- 
filled, and  that  the  time  was  hastening 
when  there  should  not  be  any  kings 
upon  this  land.  When  Louis  Napoleon 
tried  to  establish  an  empire  in  Mexico 
he  miserably  failed,  and  the  man  who 
tried  to  become  king  there  lost  his  life. 

But  I  specially  want  to  draw  your  at- 
tention to  the  allusion  to  this  being  a 
land  of  Zion.    It  here  gives  us  an  in- 
timation of  the  gathering;  that  people 
should  come  from  other  nations,  gather 
to  this  land,  establish  a  Zion  and  that 
the  Lord  should  protect  them  so  that 
the  enemies  of  Zion  should  net  have 
power  over  her.    This  was  years  be- 
fore emigration  to   this  country  took 
place,  but  the  prophecy  has  been  ful- 
filled.   We  look  upon  this  as  the  land 
of  Zion,  and  the  principle  of  gathering, 
though   a   unique   one,   has   been  one 
that  has  pervaded  the  teachings  and 
belief  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  from 
the  beginning.    Even  before  the  Elders 
in   their  missionary  labors  have  said 
anything  about  a  Zion,  the  spirit  of  God 
has  witnessed  to  the  spirits  of  those 
who  have  received  the    Gosoel  that 
there  would  be  a  gathering,  but  that 
God  would  have  a  people  of  His  own 
and  that  they  would  be  gathered  to  one 
place.    From  the  very  beginning  of  the 
Gospel  being  sent  to  England  we  have 
evidence  to  prove  this.    I  have  seen  in 
my  administrations  how  quickly  this 
spirit    has    taken    possession    of  the 
Saints.     And   while   we   do   not  urge 
gathering  today,  feeling  that  the  work 
will  be  strengthened  by  most  of  the 
Saints  remaining  in  the  branches  foi 
a  time  and  helping  the  Elders  carry  the 
warning  message   of   the   Gospel,  yet 
the  principle  of  gathering  is  just  as 
true  today  as  ever  it  has  been.  We 
feel,   however,   that   it   is   better  for 
those  who  receive  the  Gospel  abroad 
to  become  well  grounded  in  the  faith 
before  they  make  the  sacrifice  of  leav- 


ing their  homes  and  their  relatives, 
and  when  they  are  well  grounded  in 
the  faith  and  have  helped  to  build  up 
the  Church  where  they  have  received 
the  Gospel,  we  want  them  to  gather 
with  us  and  to  make  a  part  of  the  great 
united  Church  of  God. 

We  have  also  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  which  contains  numer- 
ous prophecies  that  have  already  been 
fulfilled.  Take  the  45th  Section  and 
that  alludes  to  the  gathering.  The 
first  year  after  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized this  revelation  was  given  and  it 
plainly  tells  us  that  the  people  should 
gather  from  all  the  nations  to  this  land, 
and  that  no  weapon  formed  against 
Zion  should  prosper.  Take  the  49th 
Section,  and  what  a  plain  prophecy  it 
contains!  So  early  in  our  history  we 
are  told  that  Jacob  should  flourish  on 
the  mountains — alluding  to  the  people 
coming  to  the  mountains  and  becoming 
a  strong  people  here,  as  the  Prophet 
Joseph  prophesied  twelve  years  after 
the  organization  of  the  Church. 

These  books  we  look  uoon  as  con- 
taining the  word  of  God  to  us.  But 
further,  we  believe  that  God  has  living 
witnesses  upon  the  earth;  that  He  has 
a  mouth-piece  upon  the  earth  to  give 
forth  His  words.  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  God.  His  teachings  prove 
that  what  he  taught  was  divinely  in- 
spired. Some  of  his  prophecies  have 
been  fulfilled,  and  others  remain  to  be 
fulfilled.  His  predictions  have  not  been 
guesswork.  In  1832  he  looked  down  and 
saw  the  fate  of  the  nation.  Earlier  than 
that  he  told  us  the  fate  of  the  Church. 
Now  it  is  reasonable  to  suppose  that  if 
the  Lord  raised  up  a  Prophet,  that 
Prophet  would  say  something  in  re- 
gard to  these  two  important  things — 
the  nation  and  the  Church,  and  he  did. 
He  told  how  the  Church  would  be  per- 
secuted and  driven,  and  that  even  the 
blood  of  some  should  be  spilt  and 
should  cry  unto  Heaven  against  those 
who  had  shed  it.  He  prophesied  that 
the  Church  should  go  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains,  and  he  was  so  much  im- 
pressed with  the  spirit  of  this  that  he 
appointed  a  committee  to  go  and  search 
for  a  place  to  locate  the  Saints.  He 
did  not  live  to  see  this  accomplished, 
but  we  have  seen  this  prophecy  ful- 
filled. In  regard  to  the  nation  he  plain- 
ly foretold  where  the  Rebellion  should 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


begin  and  what  its  results  should  be. 
Every  one  can  see  plainly  that  part 
of  that  revelation  has  been  fulfilled 
and  the  other  part  remains  to  be  ful- 
filled. Take  the  successors  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  and  they  have  been  in- 
spired of  the  Lord  to  give  His  word 
unto  the  people,  and  we  have  known 
that  it  has  been  the  word  of  the  Lord. 

Today,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  word 
of  the  Lord  to  us  through  His  Prophet 
is  that  we  should  remember  the  law  of 
tithing.  It  has  been  preached  to  you  in 
many  of  your  Stakes,  and  I  am  very 
happy  to  see  the  response  that  you  have 
made  to  the  call  of  the  servants  of  the 
Lord.  I  hope  that  this  will  not  be 
a  temporary  effect,  but  that  you  will 
all  see  and  appreciate  the  importance 
of  continually  obeying  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  Today  we  are  walking  in  faith; 
that  mist  which  Nephi  saw  lies  around 
us,  but  we  are  shown  the  iron  rod. 
Let  us  not  let  go  of  it  and  think  that 
we  can  follow  in  another  direction  and 
that  we  will  get  through  any  way.  If 
you  and  I  shall  obtain  the  privilege  of 
eating  of  that  precious  fruit  of  the 
tree  of  life,  we  must  hold  to  the  iron 
rod.  When  the  servants  of  God  give  us 
His  word,  let  us  cling  to  it;  let  us 
obey  His  will,  and  we  will  have  no 
cause  for  regrets.  In  the  book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  we  are  taught 
that  no  religion  has  salvation  in  it 
that  does  not  ask  for  sacrifice.  It 
should  not  be  a  great  sacrifice  to  us 
to  pay  our  tithing.  Great  blessings 
have  been  Dromised  those  who  will 
obey  this  law.  The  experience  of  the 
Saints  has  been  that  the  Lord  has  ful- 
filled His  promise  in  this  regard.  Be- 
fore I  close  I  wish  to  say  to  all:  if  you 
want  your  faith  strengthened,  if  you 
want  your  testimony  made  clearer,  pay 
your  tithing  and  the  Lord  through  His 
spirit  will  witness  His  approbation  of 
your  work.   God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 

What  the  Word  of  the  Lord  Means  to  the  Saints— 
None  are  Exempt  from  the  Law— The  Bondage 
of  Debt  should  be  Avoided— The  Burdens  of 
the  Church  should  be  Decreased — Prosperity 
can  be  Secured. 

This  is  a  very  solemn  assembly,  a 
very  important  meeting,  and  one  where 
we  may  consider  our  standing  and  fel- 
lowship with  each  other  and  with  the 
Lord  and  sit  in  judgment  upon  our- 
selves.   A  passage  of  scripture  comes 


to  my  mind.  It  is  a  saying  of  one  of 
the  prophets,  written  in  the  Bible,  and 
it  reads  like  this: 

"Search  me,  O  God,  and  know  my 
heart;  try  me,  and  know  my  thoughts; 

'And  see  if  there  be  any  wicked  way 
in  me,  and  lead  me  in  the  way  ever- 
lasting." 

This  is  a  very  important  saying,  and 
we  may  find  profit  in  it  by  making  it 
applicable  to  ourselves.  No  doubt 
many  of  this  congregation  have  had 
testimonies  of  this  work.  They  have 
seen  the  power  of  God  made  manifest. 
The  gifts  and  blessings  of  the  Gos- 
pel which  we  have  embraced  have  not 
passed  away  from  the  Church.  There 
is  in  the  Church  all  the  gifts,  blessings 
and  graces  of  the  Gospel,  and  they  are 
made  manifest  in  many  instances 
among  the  Saints,  and  would  be  more 
so  had  we  more  faith  and  exercised 
more  diligence  in  serving  the  Lord. 
Every  speaker  doubtless  that  you  will 
hear  during  this  conference  will  have 
something  to  say  different  from  former 
speakers.  There  are  a  variety  of  sub- 
jects in  the  Gospel  that  are  of  vast 
interest  to  us,  and  we  come  to  Confer- 
ence from  far  and  near  to  consider 
that  which  may  be  presented  to  us  for 
our  guidance,  for  our  profit,  and  for 
our  instruction  in  the  future.  Hence 
the  speakers  do  not  confine  themselves 
entirely  to  the  written  word,  but  speak 
as  they  are  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost.  While  listening  to  my  brethren 
I  have  thought  what  an  important  posi- 
tion it  is  for  one  to  occupy  to  stand 
before  so  many  people  and  have  their 
time  and  attention.  Surely  we  ought  to 
be  inspired  of  the  Lord,  so  that  our 
words  may  be  instructive  and  interest- 
ing to  the  people.  We  are  here  from 
different  parts  of  the  land,  agreeable 
to  the  appointment  of  our  conference, 
and  we  are  here  to  listen,  to  make 
notes  and  to  write  down  what  may  be 
said  that  is  applicable  to  our  case. 

The  brethren  who  are  our  leaders, 
you  have  known  for  so  many  years  that 
no  doubt  you  have  implicit  confidence 
in  them.  We  all  have  Implicit  confi- 
dence in  the  Presidency.  We  have 
known  them  for  a  great  many  years. 
We  knew  our  beloved  President  before 
he  was  drowned  in  the  Pacific  ocean. 
President  Snow  was  drowned  once;  at 
least  after  he  was  taken  out  of  the 
water,  he  was  pronounced  dead;  but 


ELDER  MARRINER  W.  MERRILL. 


15 


the  Lord  brought  him  to  life  again  and 
has  made  him  mighty  in  the  earth  to 
declare  His  word  unto  the  people.  This 
is  no  vain  thing;  it  is  a  reality.  The 
Lord  has  a  mouthpiece  on  the  earth 
in  the  person  of  President  Lorenzo 
Snow.  Many  of  the  Saints  have  lately 
heard  his  voice  on  a  certain  subject, 
relative  to  the  welfare  of  the  people  of 
God.  The  Lord  spoke  to  him  and  he 
spoke  to  the  people.  "When  President 
Snow  was  inaugurated  as  President  of 
the  Church  every  one  present  at  that 
time  felt  a  testimony  from  the  Lord 
that  he  was  the  right  man  in  the  right 
place.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  the  Lord  has  spoken  to  President 
Snow  in  relation  to  the  law  of  tithing. 
The  Lord  has  looked  down  upon  the 
people  and  beheld  their  condition,  and 
seeing  that  they  were  straying  to  a 
certain  extent  from  the  laws  of  the 
Lord,  He  brought  this  subject  forth 
unto  us,  and  I  bear  record  that  it  is 
from  the  Lord.  It  means,  too,  just  ex- 
actly what  it  says — that  we  must  from 
this  time  forth  pay  our  tithes  and  of- 
ferings to  the  Lord.  Not  half  do  it; 
but  do  it  completely. 

I  have  had  the  experience  of  being  a 
Bishop  about  eighteen  years  in  the 
Church,  and  the  Bishops  have  to  deal 
with  tithing  matters.  I  can  truthfully 
say,  in  looking  over  the  history  of  my 
ministration,  as  a  Bishop,  that  there 
were  very  few  people  indeed  who  paid 
their  tithing.  I  can  call  to  mind  a  few 
that  in  my  judgment  paid  their  tithing 
in  full,  but  they  were  very  few  in  the 
Ward  where  I  presided.  This  is  an 
important  matter,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. It  applies  to  all  of  us.  No  man 
or  woman  is  exempt.  I  do  not  know 
of  any  members  of  the  Church  being 
exempt  from  this  law,  even  if  he  or 
she  has  to  draw  support  from  the 
Church.  The  tithing  is  due  on  what- 
ever they  draw.  I  say  to  you  that  if 
we  will  from  this  time  on  renew  our 
diligence  in  regard  to  observing  this 
law,  the  Lord  will  redeem  us,  and,  as 
Brother  Lund  said,  our  faith  will  be  in- 
creased. You  mark  it,  the  people  who 
pay  their  tithing  will  have  an  increase 
of  faith  and  an  increase  of  prosperity. 
It  is  the  shortest  and  easiest  way  to 
extricate  ourselves  from  debt  and  to 
redeem  the  mortgages  on  our  homes. 
I  heard  a  man  bear  record  to  me  two 


or  three  years  ago  on  that  point.  He 
said:  "I  have  paid  my  tithing  recently, 
and  I  have  been  prospered.  The  way 
is  opening  up  and  things  are  becoming 
more  easy  with  me." 

I  would  not  advise  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  worry  or  to  lose  any 
sleep  over  anything,  but  go  along  in 
the  even  tenor  of  your  way,  do  your 
duty  before  the  Lord  and  before  your 
family,  and  set  an  example  that  is 
worthy  of  imitation.  A  great  many  of 
our  people  are  in  bondage.  In  other 
words,  they  are  in  debt.  Their  homes 
are  mortgaged,  their  farms  are  mort- 
gaged. This  is  all  wrong.  We  should 
not  place  ourselves  in  bondage.  Per- 
haps there  are  mitigating  circum- 
stances in  some  cases  and  good  rea- 
sons why  some  people  are  involved;  but 
such  cases  are  few.  A  great  many 
people  have  entered  into  these  obli- 
gations unwisely.  They  have  spent 
their  means  unwisely  and  have  nothing 
to  show  for  it.  We  want  to  begin  to 
redeem  ourselves;  turn  our  faces  to 
the  Lord  and  intreat  the  Lord  about 
our  affairs.  There  is  no  wrong  in  going 
into  our  secret  places  and  telling  the 
Lord  our  circumstances,  and  if  you 
will  do  this,  you  will  find  relief.  You 
will  have  the  suggestions  of  the  Spirit, 
and  ways  will  be  opened  up  that  you 
will  not  have  thought  of.  If  you  will 
pay  your  tithing  honestly  before  the 
Lord,  He  will  hear  and  answer  your 
prayers  and  the  day  will  come  when  this 
oeople  will  be  redeemed  and  their 
mortgages  will  be  lifted.  For  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  are  a  good  people  and 
the  Lord  loves  them.  If  we  were  not  a 
good  people,  we  would  not  have  the 
promise  of  being  forgiven.  I  think  I 
have  heard  President  Snow  say  that 
if  we  would  do  better  now,  the  Lord 
would  forgive  us  for  the  past.  This  is 
an  intimation  that  the  Lord  loves  His 
people,  because  there  are  many  pure 
and  devoted  Latter-day  Saints  among 
them.  Of  course,  we  are  not  all  what 
we  ought  to  be,  but  we  may  become 
what  we  ought  to  be  by  turning  our 
attention  to  our  duty  in  the  callings  of 
the  Priesthood. 

The  idea  has  been  common  in  the  past 
that  the  Church  could  do  everything— 
it  could  build  every  meeting  house  and 
every  tabernacle  almost  throughout  the 
land.     Numerous    applications  were 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


made  to  the  Church,  and  in  the  good- 
ness and  sympathy  of  the  souls  of  the 
Presidency  and  brethren  they  have  con- 
ceded to  our  wishes  in  many  instances, 
and  tens  of  thousands  of  dollars  have 
been  appropriated  to  the  people  that  we 
could  have  got  along  without.  Now,  I 
know  a  little  about  the  affairs  of  the 
Church;  not  a  great  deal;  but  if  you 
Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes  will 
take  my  counsel,  you  will  not  ask  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  for  anything  until  his 
hands  are  relieved.  We  do  not  want 
him  weighed  down  with  obligations.  We 
want  to  hold  up  his  hands;  to  lift  the 
Church  from  under  its  obligations,  and 
to  become  a  free  people.  We  want  to 
become  lenders,  and  not  borrowers,  and 
we  can  do  it,  if  we  will  set  ourselves 
to  accomplish  the  work.  The  Lord  does 
not  require,  nor  never  has  required, 
anything  of  us  but  what  we  can  accom- 
plish if  we  set  our  hearts  to  the  work. 
We  need  to  be  very  careful  and  very 
economical  in  our  own  affairs,  and  we 
will  prosper  in  the  land. 

The  people  in  the  north,  and  perhaps 
in  the  south,  have  met  with  some  re- 
verses this  year  on  account  of  the  frost 
destroying  their  crops  to  a  certain  ex- 
tent. I  have  heard  it  said  that  in  one 
of  the  Stakes  of  Zion  there  is  at  least 
ten  thousand  dollars  worth  of  grain  in- 
jured by  the  frost.  A  great  many  of 
the  brethren  perhaps  are  more  or  less 
discouraged  because  of  this.  We  say 
to  you  brethren,  be  comforted,  and  be 
of  good  cheer.  The  hand  of  the  Lord 
is  in  all  these  things  and  prosperity 
will  come  to  you.  Your  fields  shall  be 
fruitful  and  the  frost  shall  be  stayed, 
because  of  your  diligence  in  serving  the 
Lord.  He  brings  things  upon  ns  some- 
times to  try  our  faith  and  our  devotion 
to  His  work;  but  He  will  lift  us  up, 
and  we  will  be  placed  on  a  plane  w  here 
we  will  have  joy  and  consolation  in  the 
goodness  and  mercy  of  the  Lord  to  us. 
Who  that  has  watched  the  course  cf 
events  for  the  last  forty  or  fifty  years 
has  not  seen  the  hand  of  the  Lord  over 
this  people  in  these  mountain  valleys, 
where,  in  early  times,  it  was  thought 
impossible  to  raise  grain  or  vegetables? 
These  valleys  have  been  made  fruitful; 
the  elements  have  been  tempered  to  the 
good  of  the  people,  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  have  been  upon  the  land  and  the 


people  as  a  whole  are  becoming 
wealthier  every  year,  getting  better 
homes,  better  surroundings,  better 
meeting  houses,  better  school  houses 
and  everything  better.  The  blessings  of 
the  Lord  are  upon  us,  if  we  can  only 
acknowledge  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in 
them. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not 
want  to  weary  you  at  this  time,  but  I 
want  to  see  the  Saints  prosper.  I  know 
this  work  is  true.  I  learned  this  many 
years  ago.  I  left  the  grave  of  my 
father,  the  fireside  of  my  mother,  a 
boy  alone  in  the  world,  without  a  cent 
in  my  pocket,  to  associate  myself  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  Why?  Because 
I  had  a  testimony  from  the  Lord  that 
this  work  was  true,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  great  Prophet  of  God,  and  that 
his  brethren  of  the  Twelve  were  great 
men  of  God  and  Seers  and  Revelators. 
The  Church  will  never  be  left  without 
a  Prophet  nor  without  Seers  and  Reve- 
lators. My  life  has  not  been  all  smooth 
sailing.  I  have  had  the  hard  and  the 
rough  times  in  the  early  days  here, 
but  I  have  had  testimony  upon  testi- 
mony that  this  work  is  from  God.  If 
you  do  not  know  it  is  true,  it  is  be- 
cause you  have  not  sought  as  dili- 
gently as  you  ought  to  do.  Every 
member  of  the  Church  may  know  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God.  Every  young 
man  may  know  it,  whether  he  goes  on 
a  mission  or  stays  at  home,  every 
young  woman  may  have  divine  evi- 
dence from  the  Lord.  You  all  may 
know  it,  if  you  will  seek  for  it  earnest- 
ly and  devotedly.  What  greater  bles- 
sing can  we  have  than  to  be  able  to 
give  a  reason  for  the  hope  that  we 
have.  Whether  we  live  or  die,  it  mat- 
ters not,  so  long  as  we  are  in  the  line 
of  duty,  and  so  long  as  we  can  say: 
"Search  me,  O  God,  and  know  my 
heart;  try  me,  and  know  my  thoughts; 
and  see  if  there  be  any  wicked  way  in 
me." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  fill  us  with 
His  power  and  manifest  His  blessings 
unto  us,  that  we  may  go  home  with  the 
spirit  of  this  conference  and  dissemin- 
ate it  throughout  the  land,  that  there 
may  be  an  awakening  among  the  peo- 
ple, and  that  the  Lord  may  approve  of 
us  and  our  labors  and  bless  us  accord- 
ingly.   God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  HEBER  I.  GRANT. 


17 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Effects  Produced  by  the  Lives  of  G-reai  Characters 
— Blessings  of  God  Secured  by  Obedience— When 
the  Lord  gives  Commands  He  opens  the  way  for 
the  Obedient  to  Fulfill  them. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  at  again  having 

the  opportunity  of  meeting  with  the 
JLatter-day  Saints  in  General  Con- 
ference. I  have  listened  with  a  great 
deal  of  pleasure  to  the  remarks  that 
have  been  made  by  the  brethren  who 
have  spoken,  and  I  earnestly  desire  that 
the  time  which  I  occupy  may  be  for  our 
mutual  benefit,  to  strengthen  us  in  the 
faith  of  the  Gospel,  and  to  inspire  us 
with  a  determination  to  press  forward 
in  the  discharge  of  the  many  duties  and 
responsibilities  resting  upon  us  as 
members  of  the  Church.  We  all,  no 
doubt,  look  around  in  life  and  from  our 
observation  of  men,  or  from  our  read- 
ing of  the  lives  of  those  who  have  died, 
form  our  ideals,  and  we  try  to  live  and 
to  be  like  those  whom  we  admire.  There 
is  no  character  with  which  I  have  been 
familiar  through  my  reading  that  has 
inspired  me  more  than  has  Nephi  of 
old.  I  can  never  read  the  life  of  that 
man  without  being  inspired  with  a  de- 
sire to  be  faithful,  diligent  and  true  to 
the  Lord,  that  I  may  be  abundantly 
blessed  of  the  Lord,  as  was  Nephi.  If 
we  all  could  be  inspired  with  a  deter- 
mination to  live  as  this  man  lived,  there 
is  no  question  in  my  mind  but  we  would 
grow  and  increase  in  the  Spirit  of  God, 
and  in  power  and  ability  to  do  the  will 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  on  the  earth. 
Alma  says  that  the  Lord  granteth  un- 
to men  according  to  their  desires, 
whether  they  be  for  life  or  death,  for 
joy  or  remorse  of  conscience.  As  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  let  us  have  a  desire  to 
live  lives  of  usefulness,  and  to  be  in- 
struments in  the  hands  of  God  of  ac- 
complishing much  good. 

I  have  read  and  spoken  time  and  time 
again  from  the  section  of  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  from  which 
Brother  Woodruff  read  this  morning. 
I  have  felt  a  desire  in  my  heart  to  be 
anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause, 
and  to  bring  to  pass  much  righteous- 
ness of  my  own  free  will.  I  have  en- 
deavored to  impress  this  also  upon  the 
minds  of  those  with  whom  I  have  been 
laboring  since  being  called  to  minister 
among  the  people.  I  desire  to  read  a 
few  words  more  from  this  same  section. 


After  telling  us  to  be  anxiously  engaged 
in  a  good  cause,  and  not  to  wait  to  be 
commanded  in  all  things,  the  Lord  says: 

'Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the 
Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guiltless  that 
obeys  not  my  commandments? 

"Who  am  I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  have 
promised  and  have  not  fulfilled? 

"I  command  and  a  man  obeys  not,  I 
revoke  and  they  receive  not  the  bles- 
sing. 

"Then  they  say  in  their  hearts,  this 
is  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  His 
promises  are  not  fulfilled.  But  wo  unto 
such,  for  their  reward  lurkeui  beneath, 
and  not  from  above." 

I  know  scores  of  Latter-day  Saints 
who  have  been  commanded  of  the  Lord 
time  and  time  again,  but  nave  failed  to 
receive  the  blessings  promised  through 
the  fulfillment  of  the  commandments  of 
God,  because  they  have  obeyed  not.  Yet 
they  have  accused  the  Lord  of  failing  to 
fulfill  His  promises  made  to  those  who 
obey  His  commandments.  I  have  ever 
known  that  those  who  pay  not  their 
tithing  are  the  ones  that  criticise  the 
expenditure  of  the  tithing.  Those  who 
are  approached  for  donations  for  lauda- 
ble purposes,  sometimes  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
and  who  refuse  to  contribute,  are  the 
ones  that  criticise  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  the  Apostles  for  calling 
upon  them  for  means.  But  I  find  that 
the  men  who  obey  are  those  who  testify 
that  the  promises  of  God  are  fulfilled. 
Therefore,  it  behooves  each  and  every 
one  of  us  to  be  true  and  energetic. 

I  desire  to  read  a  few  words  from  the 
writings  of  the  Prophet  Nephi.  After 
hearing  the  testimony  of  his  rather,  and 
after  they  had  gone  into  the  wilderness 
Nephi  says: 

"16.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  Nephi, 
being  exceeding  young,  nevertheless 
being  large  in  stature,  and  also  having 
great  desires  to  know  of  the  mysteries 
of  God,  wherefore  I  did  cry  unto  the 
Lord;  and  behold  he  did  visit  me,  and 
did  soften  my  heart  that  I  did  believe 
all  the  words  which  had  been  spoken 
by  my  father,  wherefore  I  did  not  rebel 
against  him  like  unto  my  brothers. 

"17.  And  I  spake  unto  Sam,  making 
known  unto  him  the  things  which  the 
Lord  had  manifested  unto  me  by  his 
Holy  Spirit.  And  it  came  to  pass  that 
he  believed  in  my  words; 

"18.  But  behold  Laman  and  Lemuel 
would  not  hearken  unto  my  words;  and 
being  grieved  because  of  the  hardness 
of  their  hearts,  I  cried  unto  the  Lord 
for  them. 

"19.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord 


is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


spake  unto  me,  saying,  blessed  art 
thou,  Nephi,  because  of  thy  t'aith,  for 
thou  hast  sought  me  diligently,  with 
lowliness  of  heart. 

"20.  And  inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep 
my  commandments — " 

This  is  the  point  that  I  desire  to  im- 
press upon  your  minds. 

"And  inasmuch  as  ye  shall  keep  my 
commandments,  ye  shall  prosper,  and 
shall  be  led  to  a  land  of  promise;  yea, 
even  a  land  which  I  have  prepared  for 
you;  yea,  a  land  which  is  choice  above 
all  other  lands." 

I  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that 
this  last  statement  is  one  of  the 
testimonies  of  the  truthfulness  of 
this  record,  because  this  is  a  land 
choice  above  all  other  lands,  and 
God  has  blessed  the  people  upon 
this  land.  He  has  fulfilled  the  words 
recorded  in  this  book  time  and  time 
again,  that  those  who  should  come  up  to 
fight  against  the  people  of  this  land 
should  not  prosper.  After  Nephi  had 
been  thus  abundantly  blessed  of  the 
Lord,  when  he  returned  to  his  father, 
who  had  received  a  command- 
ment from  the  Lord  that  his  sons 
should  go  back  to  Jerusalem  for  the 
brass  plates,  Laman  and  Lemuel 
were  murmurirg  against  this  command- 
ment. But  these  are  the  words  of 
Nephi: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi, 
said  unto  my  father,  I  will  go  and  do 
the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded, for  I  know  that  the  Lord 
giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  chil- 
dren of  men,  save  He  shall  prepare 
a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accom- 
plish the  thing  which  he  commandeth 
them. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  my 
father  had  heard  these  words  he  was 
exceeding  glad,  for  he  knew  that  I 
had  been  blessed  of  the  Lord." 

We  will  all  be  blessed  of  the  Lord  if 
we  have  this  same  spirit  and  realize 
that  no  obstacles  are  insurmountable 
when  God  commands  and  we  obey.  I 
heard  Brother  Lyman  once  remark  in 
a  meeting  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Apos- 
tles, that  he  knew  of  no  man  who  had 
ever  been  blessed  by  one  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Apostles  or  by  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church  and  had  been  sent  out  to 
fulfill  a  mission  that  had  failed  to  do  so. 
There  might  .be  those  whose  hearts 
they  did  touch,  but  there  were  those 
whose  hearts  could  be  reached.  There 
never  was  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Apostles  sent  upon  a  mission,  but 


what  sooner  or  later  fulfilled  that  mis- 
sion. This  is  a  testimony  of  the  state- 
ment of  Nephi:  "For  I  know  that  the 
Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the 
children  of  men,  save  He  shall  prepare 
a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accom- 
plish the  thing  which  He  commandeth 
them."  Let  us  realize  this  and  that  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments  of  God 
will  bring-  to  us  the  light  and  inspira- 
tion of  His  Spirit.  Then  the  desire  of 
our  hearts  will  be  to  know  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  Lord,  and  we  will  pray 
for  strength  and  ability  to  carry  it  out, 
thereby  lollowing  in  the  footsteps  of  our 
Lord  and  Master  Jesus  Christ.  After 
the  sons  of  Lehi  had  gone  up  to  try 
and  get  the  plates  and  were  driven 
back,  and  Nephi's  brethren  desired  to 
return  to  their  father,  Nephi  said  unto 
them.  ,. 

"That  as  the  Lord  liveth,  and  as  we 
live.we  will  not  go  down  unto  our  father 
in  the  wilderness,  until  we  have  accom- 
plished the  thing  which  the  Lord  hath 
commanded  us. 

"Wherefore  let  us  be  faithful  in  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  the  Lord." 

Here  is  the  key:  Nephi  knew  how 
to  be  successful.  Let  us  therefore  be 
faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord. 

"Therefore  let  us  go  down  to  the  land 
of  our  father's  inheritance,  for  behold, 
he  left  gold  and  silver  and  all  manner 
of  riches.  And  all  this  he  hath  done  be- 
cause of  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord." 

After  they  had  been  driven  the  second 
time  and  Laban  had  stolen  their  gold 
and  silver  that  they  had  offered  him  for 
the  plates,  Laman  and  Lemuel  mur- 
mured again,  and  said  that  Laban  could 
command  his  fifty  and  would  slay  them. 
And  Nephi  replied: 

"Let  us  go  up  again  unto  Jerusalem, 
and  let  us  be  faithful  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord;  for  be- 
hold he  is  mightier  than  all  the  earth,, 
then  why  not  mightier  than  Laban  and 
his  fifty,  yea,  or  even  than  his  tens  of 
thousands." 

That  is  the  kind  of  faith  to  have.  Let 
us  be  faithful  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  then  we  know  that 
we  can  win  the  battle,  though  we  may 
be  opposed  by  a  man  with  his  tens  of 
thousands.  The  final  result  was  that 
Nephi  got  the  plates.  We  find  recorded 
here  also  that  Nephi  was  commanded 
of  the  Lord  to  build  a  vessel.  His 
brethren  laughed  at  him  when  they 
saw   he  was  sorrowful   because  they 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


19 


refused  to  help  him  to  build  the  vessel. 
Nephi  said  to  them: 

"Behold,  my  soul  is  rent  with  anguish 
because  of  you,  and  my  heart  is  pained; 
for  I  fear  lest  ye  shall  be  cast  off  for- 
ever. Behold,  I  am  full  of  the  Spirit 
of  God,  insomuch  that  my  frame  has  no 
strength." 

Nephi  continues: 

"And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  when 
I  had  spoken  these  words,  they  were 
angry  with  me  and  were  desirous  to 
throw  me  into  the  depths  of  the  sea; 
and  as  they  came  forth  to  lay  their 
hands  upon  me,  I  spake  unto  them,  say- 
ing: In  the  name  of  the  Almighty  God, 
I  command  you  that  ye  touch  me  not, 
for  I  am  filled  with  the  power  of  God 
even  unto  the  consuming  of  my  flesh; 
and  whoso  shall  lay  their  hands  upon 
me,  shall  wither  even  as  a  dried  reed; 
and  he  shall  be  as  naught  before  the 
power  of  God,  for  God  shall  smite  him. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi, 
said  unto  them,  that  they  should  mur- 
mur no  more  against  their  father: 
neither  should  they  withhold  their  labor 
from  me,  for  God  had  commanded  me 
that  I  should  build  a  ship." 

On  another  occassion  when  Nephi 
was  in  affliction,  having  been  bound  by 
his  brethren  on  the  ship,  and  they  un- 
bound him  because  they  were  afraid  of 
the  storm,  Nephi  said: 

"Wherefore  they  came  unto  me,  and 
loosed  the  bands  which  were  upon  my 
wrists;  and  behold  they  had  swollen 
exceedingly;  and  also  mine  ankles  were 
much  swollen,  and  great  was  the  sore- 
ness thereof. 

"Nevertheless  I  did  look  unto  my  God, 
and  I  did  praise  Him  all  the  day  long; 
and  I  did  not  murmur  against  the  Lord, 
because  of  mine  afflictions." 

"We  find  here  a  man  of  faith;  a  man 
who  submits  to  affliction  without  mur- 
muring. In  all  his  history  we  find  that 
he  followed  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  The  Lord  said  to  him  in  the  be- 
ginning that  if  he  followed  His 
commandments  he  should  be  prospered 
in  the  land, and  he  was  prospered.  I  wish 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  all  of  us  who  will  obey  the 
commandments  of  God  will  be  pros- 
pered in  the  land.  Sacrifice  doth  bring 
forth  the  blessings  of  heaven.  I  bear 
my  testimony  to  the  truth  of  what 
Brother  Lund  has  said  today,  that  if 
the  people  will  pay  their  tithes  and  of- 
ferings, they  will  not  only  be  blessed  in 
their  material  affairs,  but  they  will  be 
abundantly  blessed  with  increased  out- 
pouring of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  We 
find  recorded  in  Section  130  of  the  book 


of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  follow- 
ing: 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed 
in  heaven  before  the  foundation  of  this 
world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  pre- 
dicated; 

"21.  And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing 
from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law 
upon  which  it  is  predicated." 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  as  a.n  Apostle 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  material 
and  spiritual  prosperity  is  predicated 
upon  the  fulfillment  of  the  duties  and 
responsibilities  that  rest  upon  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  rejoiced  ex- 
ceedingly that  the  debts  which  the  peo- 
ple owe  to  the  Lord  in  tithing  have  been 
forgiven  by  the  Prophet  of  God.  But 
I  want  to  say  to  those  who  are  able  to 
pay  those  debts,  it  will  be  a  great  deal 
better  for  them  if  they  will  do  so,  not- 
withstanding they  have  been  forgiven. 
If  the  Lord  will  help  me,  I  propose  to 
pay  every  debt  that  I  owe  in  the  world. 
I  propose  with  the  help  of  the  Lord  to 
be  true  to  my  fellowmen  in  fulfilling 
every  obligation  that  I  have  entered  in- 
to with  them.  But  above  all  and  be- 
yond all,  I  propose  to  fulfill  my  obliga- 
tion, to  the  be6t  of  my  ability,  to  God 
my  Heavenly  Father.  I  have  been  ridi- 
culed in  the  public  prints  because  I  said 
that  a  man's  duty  was  to  pay  his  debts 
to  the  Lord  if  he  did  not  pay  his  debts 
to  his  fellowman.  I  repeat  that.  God 
my  Heavenly  Father  has  blessed  me 
with  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  I  do 
know  that  God  lives;  I  do  know  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ;  I  do  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God; 
I  do  know  that  Lorenzo  Snow  is  a 
Prophet  of  God;  I  know  that  God  loves 
me;  that  He  blesses  me;  that  I  am  one 
of  His  children;  that  I  am  under  obli- 
gations to  Him;  and  that  all  I  have 
on  earch,  all  that  I  will  ever  receive 
here  or  hereafter,  I  am  indebted  to  Him 
for  it.  Therefore,  I  say,  shall  I  not  ful- 
fill the  duties  and  obligations  that  I 
owe  to  my  Creator  and  loving  Parent 
before  I  fulfill  my  obligations  to  my  fel- 
lowman. lias  any  man  ever  loaned 
me  money  because  he  loved  me?  No;  he 
has  loaned  it  to  me  because  he  wanted 
his  interest.  With  the  help  of  the  Lord 
I  propose  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  and  then  I  do  know  that 
I  shall  oe  able  to  pay  all  that  I  owe; 
because  I  know  that  God  blesses  those 
who  keep  His  commandments.    I  know 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


that  I  nev^r  made  a  sacrifice  of  a  finan- 
cial nature  in  my  life  to  help  the  ad- 
vancement of  God's  work,  without  be- 
ing abundantly  rewarded  therefor.  Not 
only  materially,  but  I  grew  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  Gospel  and  in  the 
Spirit  of  God,  which  is  worth  more  than 
all  the  wealth  and  honors  of  men.  I  de- 
sire never  to  allow  my  heart  to  wither 
up,  so  to  speak,  but  rather  to  have  it 
grow  and  expand.  I  desire  to  seek  first 
the  kingdom  of  God.  I  do  know  and 
bear  witness  to  you  that  if  I  do  it,  all 
other  things  for  my  good  will  be  added 
unto  me.  And  what  I  bear  witness  to 
pertaining  to  myself,  I  bear  witness  to 
for  all  the  Latter-day  Saints.  If  you 
desire  the  Spirit  of  God,  be  honest  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God.  If 
you  desire  prosperity,  and  at  the  same 
time  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  pay 
all  your  obligations  to  God  and  you 
shall  have  it.  If  you  are  not  honest 
with  God,  you  may  prosper  and  you 
may  be  blessed  with  the  things  of  this 
world,  but  they  will  crowd  out  from 
your  heart  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel;  you 
will  become  covetous  of  your  own 
means  and  lose  the  inspiration  of  Al- 
mighty God.  The  Savior  told  us  that  if 
we  gained  the  whole  world  and  lost  our 
own  souls,  it  would  profit  us  nothing. 
We  have  started  out  for  life  eternal,  the 
greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God  to  man, 
and  keeping  the  commandments  of  God 
will  brins-  it  to  us.  May  God  bless 
you.  Amt.n. 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

The  Restoration  of  the  Gospel  Produced  the  Gath- 
ering—Jixhortatlon  Regarding  the  Law  of  Tithing 
— The  .Latter-day  Samis  do  nothing  that  should 
draw  out  the  Enmity  of  the  World  upon  them — 
Kuowledge  and  Wisdom  come  by  Experience — 
The  National  Constitution  should  be  Supported . 

"1.  Listen  to  the  voice  of  Jesus 
Christ,  your  Lord,  your  God,  and  your 
Redeemer,  whose  word  is  quick  and 
powerful. 

"2.  For,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that 
it  mattereth  not  what  ye  shall  eat,  or 
what  ye  shall  drink,  when  ye  partake 
of  the  sacrament,  if  it  so  be  that  ye 
do  it  with  an  eye  single  to  my  glory; 
remembering  unto  the  Father  my  body 
which  was  laid  down  for  you,  and  my 
blood  which  was  shed  for  the  remission 
of  your  sins: 

"3.  Wherefore,  a  commandment  I  give 
unto  you,  that  you  shall  not  purchase 
wine,  neither  strong  drink  or  your  ene- 
mies: 

"4.  Wherefore,  ye  shall    partake  of 


none,  except  it  is  made  new  among  you; 
yea,  in  this  my  Father's  kingdom  which 
shall  be  built  up  on  the  earth. 

"5.  Behold,  this  is  wisdom  in  me: 
wherefore,  marvel  not,  for  the  hour 
cometh  that  I  will  drink  of  the  fruit  of 
the  vine  with  you  on  the  earth,  and 
with  Moroni,  whom  I  have  sent  unto 
you  to  reveal  the  Book  of  Mormon,  con- 
taining the  fullness  of  my  everlasting 
gospel,  to  whom  I  have  committed  the 
keys  of  the  record  of  the  stick  of  Eph- 
raim; 

"6.  And  also  with  Elias,  to  whom  I 
have  committed  the  keys  of  bringing 
to  pass  the  restoration  of  all  things, 
spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  the  holy 
Prophets  since  the  world  began,  con- 
cerning the  last  days: 

"7.  And  also  John  the  son  of  Zach- 
arias,  which  Zacharias  he  (Elias)  visit- 
ed and  gave  promise  that  he  should 
have  a  son,  and  his  name  should  be 
John,  and  he  should  be  filled  with  the 
spirit  of  Elias; 

"8.  Which  John  I  have  sent  unto  you, 
my  servants,  Joseph  Smith,  Jr.,  and 
Oliver  Cowdery,  to  ordain  you  unto  this 
first  priesthood  which  you  have  re- 
ceived, that  you  might  be  called  and 
ordained  even  as  Aaron: 

"9.  And  also  Elijah,  unto  whom  I 
have  committed  the  keys  of  the  power 
of  turning  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children,  and  the  hearts  of  the 
children  to  the  fathers,  that  the  whole 
earth  may  not  be  smitten  with  a  curse: 

"10.  And  also  with  Joseph  and  Jacob, 
and  Isaac,  and  Abraham,  your  fathers, 
by  whom  the  promises  remain; 

"11.  And  also  with  Michael,  or  Adam, 
the  father  of  all,  the  prince  of  all,  the 
ancient  of  days. 

"12.  And  also  with  Peter,  and  James, 
and  John,  whom  I  have  sent  unto  you, 
by  whom  I  have  ordained  you  and  con- 
firmed you  to  be  Apostles,  and  especial 
witnesses  of  my  name,  and  bear  the 
keys  of  your  ministry,  and  of  the  same 
things  which  I  revealed  unto  them: 

"13.  Unto  whom  I  have  committed 
the  keys  of  my  kingdom,  and  a  dispen- 
sation of  the  Gospel  for  the  last  time; 
and  for  the  fullness  of  times,  in  the 
which  I  will  gather  together  in  one  all 
things,  both  which  are  in  heaven,  and 
which  are  on  earth: 

"14.  And  also  with  all  those  whom 
my  Father  hath  given  me  out  or  the 
world: 

"15.  Wherefore,  lift  up  your  hearts 
and  rejoice,  and  gird  up  your  loins,  and 
take  upon  you  my  whole  armor,  that 
ye  may  be  able  to  withstand  the  evil 
clay,  having  done  all  ye  may  be  able  to 
stand. 

"16.  Stand,  therefore,  having  your 
loins  girt  about  with  truth,  having  on 
the  breastplate  of  righteousness,  and 
your  feet  shod  with  the  preparation  of 
the  Gospel  of  peace,  which  I  have  sent 
mine  angels  to  commit  unto  you. 

"17.  Taking  the  shield  of  faith  where- 
with ye  shall  be  able  to  quench  all  the 
fiery  darts  of  the  wicked; 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEAS  DALE. 


21 


"18.  And  take  the  helmet  of  salvation, 
and  the  sword  of  my  spirit,  which  I  will 
pour  out  upon  you,  and  my  word  which 
I  reveal  unto  you,  and  he  agreed  as 
touching-  all  things  whatsoever  ye  ask 
of  me,  and  be  faithful  until  T  come,  and 
ye  shall  he  caught  up.  that  where  I  am 
ye  shall  be  also.  Amen." 

Thus  said  the  Lord  many  years  ago. 
This  everlasting  Gospel  that  was  re- 
stored to  the  earth  through  the  agency 
of  Moroni,  John  the  Baptist,  and  Peter, 
James  and  John,  has  brought  about  this 
wonderful  gathering  that  we  see  at  this 
conference.    We  can  congratulate  each 
other  that  we  have  this  glorious  privi- 
lege today.   The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said: 
"No  man  can  come  unto  me.  except  mv 
Father  draw  him."    How  is  it  that  we 
have  accepted  the  principles  of  ever- 
lasting life?    Forty-seven    years'  ex- 
perience I  have  had  with  this  people, 
and  T  know  most  assuredly  that  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  has  been 
restored   to  the  earth,  and   that  this 
work  that  we  are  engaged  In  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  which  Tsaiah  spoke 
about  when  he  said  that  the  Lord  would 
commence  a  marvelous  work    and  a 
wonder,   in  which  the  wisrlom   of  the 
wise  should  perish  and  the  understand- 
in?  of  the  prudent  should  be  brought  to 
nought.    Our  Father  in  Heaven  is  doing 
his  own  work.    That  1  want  to  say  to 
my  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  who 
have  gathered   together  here  for  the 
purpose  of  worshiping  the  Lord  at  this 
conference.     God  has  manifested  his 
love  unto  us.    How  did  these  brethren 
who  have  spoken  obtain  the  testimony 
which  they  have  borne  at  the  confer- 
ence in  the  power  and  spirit  of  God?  It 
is  because  God  has  loved  them  and 
given  unto  them  his  spirit.    How  is  it 
that  these  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
their  counselors.  High  Councilors  and 
the  Bishops  and  their  counselors  have 
this  glorious  privilege  of  assembling  to- 
gether at  this  conference  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord  and  to  represent  their 
respective  fields  of  labor?    It  is  by  the 
grace  of  God.    By  His  grace  we  are 
saved  and  have  the  privilege  of  a  stand- 
ing In  the  Church.    It  is  our  Father  in 
Heaven  who  has  drawn  us  into  His 
fold,  adopted  us  into  His  royal  family 
and  given  unto  us  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
with  the  blessings  and  keys  of  endless 
life.    He  has  also  given  unto  us  the 
understanding  heart.    He  has  filled  ua 


with  His  divine  love,  and  has  granted 
unto  us  the  glorious  gifts  of  faith, 
hope  and  charity.  We  gladly  gather  to- 
gether to  wait  upon  the  Lord,  to  hear 
His  word  and  to  understand  His  coun- 
sel. 

Before   coming   to   this   meeting  we 
have  been  on  our  knees,  pleading  with 
the  Almighty  that  He  would  pour  His 
spirit  and  blessing  upon  His  servants 
who  should  speak,  that    they  might 
faithfully  deliver  His  word  unto  the 
people.    We  have  had  the  word  of  God 
given  unto  us,  and  I  bear  testimony 
that  this  word  is  true,  that  we  should 
repent  of  our  robbing  the  Lord  in  tithes 
and  offerings  and  that  we  shoiild  turn 
unto  Him  with  full  purpose  of  heart, 
consecrating  unto  Him    one-tenth  of 
everything  that  the  Lord  shall  give  unto 
us,  by  which  we  would  be  enabled  to 
sanctify  the  land,  so  that  His  statutes 
might  be  kept  thereon.   This  is  the  word 
of  the  Lord  to  us,  and  it  will  naturally 
bring  division.    There  will  be  those  who 
will  hear  the  word  of  God  and  do  it, 
and  there  will  be  those  who  will  reject 
the  word  of  God  and  count  it  as  a  light 
thing,  making  any  frivolous  excuse  for 
despising  the  ordinances  of  the  house 
of  God.     The  Lord  told    His  people 
through  Malachi  that  when  they  robbed 
Him  in  tithes  and  offerings  they  were 
laboring  under  a  curse,  and  the  Lord 
has  told  us  that  if  we  do  not  honor  this 
law  it  shall  not  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto 
us,    and    our    enemies    shall  prevail 
against  us,  but  if  we  love  Him  and  keep 
His  commandments  we    shall  prevail 
against  our  enemies. 

I  do  not  know  that  we  should  have 
any  enemies.  T  am  not  aware  that  we 
do  any  harm.  We  are  striving  all  the 
time  to  set  a  righteous  example,  teach- 
ing the  people  correct  principles.  We 
take  our  lives  in  our  hands  and  go 
forth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  with 
this  glad  message  of  great  joy  to  the 
people,  that  God  hath  spoken  and  that 
He  has  restored  to  the  earth  His  holy 
Gospel.  We  promise  them  that  if  they 
will  obey  the  Gospel  and  live  the  prin- 
ciples of  righteousness  they  shall  have 
a  living  testimony  and  shall  know,  as 
we  know,  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
true  Prophet  sent  of  God,  that  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times  is 
being  ushered  in,  and  that  the  peoplf 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


are  being-  prepared  for  everlasting-  life 
or  for  death,  for  a  glorious  resurrec- 
tion or  a  resurrection  of  everlasting 
shame.  There  are  two  resurrections, 
the  resurrection  of  the  just  and  the 
resurrection  of  the  unjust.  How  could 
we  expect  a  part  in  the  resurrection  of 
the  just,  unless  we  were  just  to  our 
God  and  to  each  other? 

Vain  theories  will  never  Uo  us  any 
good.  Foolish  dogmas  never  saved  any- 
body or  anything.  "We  can  only  be 
sanctified  by  the  truth  as  it  is  in  Christ 
Jesus.  The  Lord  hath  said  "Look  unto 
me  all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  for  beside 
me  there  is  no  Savior."  Why  do  not 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  look  unto 
him?  "Why  do  they  not  have  faith 
in  Him?  Because  it  is  not  their  tradi- 
tion. "Without  faith  it  is  impossible  to 
please  God."  I  was  not  educated  to  be- 
lieve that  it  was  essential  that  I  should 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  revelation  myself; 
that  I  had  the  privilege  of  communion 
with  God  my  Eternal  Father  and  ob- 
taining light  and  intellig?nce  from  H;m; 
and  that  if  I  would  sancrlty  myself  be- 
fore the  Lord  and  keep  His  command- 
ments I  should  receive  line  upon  line, 
precept  upon  precept,  here  a  little  and 
there  a  little.  I  ask  you.  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  do  not  grow 
gradually  in  the  knowledge  of  God?  We 
do  not  receive  it  in  a  day;  we  must 
have  experience,  and  therefore  I  think 
our  persecutions  are  all  right.  Jesus 
Christ  said:  "It  must  needs  be  that 
offenses  come,  but  wo  unto  them  by 
whom  they  come."  We  have  to  be  edu- 
cated in  this  line.  If  we  were  not  op- 
pressed, misrepresented,  lied  about  and 
slandered,  we  never  would  have  sym- 
pathy for  others  in  the  same  condition. 
My  sympathies  go  out  to  the  patriot  and 
to  the  lover  of  liberty  who  believes  in 
sustaining  the  constitution  that  was 
given  of  Almighty  God.  I#do  not  sym- 
pathize with  the  hypocrite.  Jesus 
Christ  said:  "Beware  of  the  leaven  of 
the    Pharisees,"    (hypocrisy)    and  we 


might  say,  beware  of  the  leaven  of  the 
Gentiles.  Let  us  be  what  we  seem  to 
be.  If  we  are  patriots,  let  us  stand  by 
correct  principles,  and  let  this  be  a 
land  of  religious  liberty  to  all  man- 
kind. Let  it  be  the  land  of  the  free 
and  the  home  of  the  brave,  truly  and 
literally,  and  let  those  that  are  weak 
be  protected.  That  was  the  determina- 
tion when  the  Constitution  was  writ- 
ten. The  more  I  study  and  understand 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States, 
the  more  I  revere  it.  I  am  something 
like  Bishop  Edward  Hunter,  who  said, 
"Too  good,  too  good,  for  a  bad  people." 
It  is  a  glorious  document,  and  one  that 
we  are  under  obligation  to  sustain. 
Every  American  citizen  promises  to 
sustain  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States.  Every  officer  in  the  country 
makes  that  oath  and  covenant.  That 
is  done  for  the  protection  of  the  weak 
and  to  prevent  religious  persecution.  It 
was  so  in  the  beginning,  and  wo  unto 
those  who  trample  upon  that  Constitu- 
tion. 

God  bless  us  in  our  individual  re- 
sponsibilities. We  shall  all  have  to 
stand  before  the  bar  of  God  and  give 
an  account  of  the  deeds  done  in  the 
body.  All  men,  whether  they  be  princes 
on  their  thrones,  or  beggars  in  the 
street,  have  got  to  meet  the  covenants 
that  they  have  made.  The  choir  here 
sings  sometimes,  "Who  shall  ascend  in- 
to the  hill  of  the  Lord?  Or  who  shall 
stand  in  His  holy  place?  He  that  hath 
clean  hands  and  a  pure  heart;  who  hath 
not  lifted  up  his  soul  unto  vanity,  nor 
sworn  deceitfully."    That  is  it. 

Let  us  be  kind  to  ourselves;  let  us 
fear  God  and  keep  his  commandments, 
and  when  He  requires  anything  at  our 
hands  by  His  grace,  let  us  perform  it. 
Unto  this  end  may  God  sustain  us,  for 
Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

The  chior  sang: 

"Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy." 
Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 


SECOND  DAY. 


Saturday,  October  7,  10  a.m. 

Conference  was  called  to  order  by 
President  George  Q.  Cannon. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn  which  begins: 

"We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Pro- 
phet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter-days; 
We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gos- 
pel, 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays." 
Prayer  by  Elder  Charles  W.  Penrose. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Come,    dearest    Lord,    descend  and 
dwell, 

By  faith  and  love,  in  every  heart; 
Then  shall  we  know  and  taste  and  feel 
The  joys  that  cannot  be  expressed." 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

How  the  Land  of  Zion  shall  be  Redeemed — The 
Law  of  Consecration — Ths  Law  of  Tlihing — 
Persecutions  in  the  Past  ;md  the  Cause  of 
Them— Gratifying  Effects  of  Recent  Preaching 
— Not  th-i  Business  of  saints  to  Eight  their 
Enemies. 

Brethren  and  sisters:  I  wish,  as  I  al- 
ways do  in  coming  before  an  audience  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  your  faith  and  pray- 
ers, that  I  may  say  such  things  as  will 
be  a  comfort  and  a  blessing.  A  day  or 
two  before  this  conference,  in  thinking 
upon  what  I  might  wish  to  say  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  it  occurred  to  me 
that  perhaps  I  had  said  about  enough 
in  reference  to  the  matter  of  tithing, 
and  that  I  would  not  confine  myself  to 
that  subject,  as  I  have  spoken  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  conferences  of  all 
the  large  Stakes  and  also  here  in  Salt 
Lake  City  at  a  Stake  Conference.  I  felt 
that  it  might  not  be  necessary  to  talk 
upon  this  subject,  but  that  it  would  be 
proper  for  two  of  my  brethren,  who 
were  with  me  at  St.  George  and  since, 
to  talk  upon  it  once  more  in  their  lives, 
and  I  have  so  requested  them.  Now, 
I  feel  it  my  duty  to  say  something  still 
myself  in  reference  to  this  most  import- 
ant subject  of  all,  under  the  present 
condition,  that  can  be  laid  before  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  will  read  a  few 
verses  in  the  63rd  Section  of  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  commenc- 
ing with  the  25th  verse; 


25.  "Behold  the  land  of  Zion,  I,  the 
Lord,  holdeth  it  in  mine  own  hands; 

26.  "Nevertheless,  I  the  Lord,  render- 
eth  unto  Ceasar  the  things  which  are 
Caesar's; 

27.  "Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  willeth 
that  you  shuold  purchase  the  lands  that 
you  may  have  the  advantage  of  the 
world,  that  you  may  have  claim  on 
the  world,  that  they  may  not  be  stirred 
up  unto  anger; 

28.  "For  Satan  putteth  it  into  their 
hearts  to  anger  against  you,  and  to  the 
shedding  of  blood; 

29.  "Wherefore  the  land  of  Zion  shall 
not  be  obtained  but  by  purchase  or  by 
blood,  otherwise  there  is  none  inheri- 
tance for  you. 

30.  "And  if  by  purchase,  behold  you 
are  blessed; 

31.  "And  if  by  blood,  as  you  are  for- 
bidden to  shed  blood,  lo,  your  enemies 
are  upon  you,  and  ye  shall  be  scourged 
from  city  to  city,  and  from  synagogue 
to  synagogue,  and  but  few  shall  stand 
to  receive  an  inheritance." 

We  learn  from  these  verses  that  the 
Lord  determined  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  could  secure  the  land  of  Zion 
only  by  two  ways:  One  by  purchase, 
the  other  by  the  shedding  of  blood.  The 
Lord  also  determined  that  possession  of 
that  country  should  not  be  gained  ex- 
cept by  the  purchase  of  the  land.  It 
should  be  bought  and  paid  for  by  the 
means  furnished  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  whether  rich  or  poor.  It  should 
be  bought  as  other  people  buy  land. 
The  Lord  would  not  permit  them  to 
take  possession  of  the  land  by  force, 
or  by  antagonizing  the  people's  inter- 
ests. The  Lord  expressly  stated  that 
He  had  no  other  object  in  view  than 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  ob- 
tain it  upon  the  principle  of  purchase. 
Even  if  it  took  every  cent  they  pos- 
sessed, they  should  not  secure  It  by  the 
shedding  of  men's  blood.  And  if  you 
and  I  ever  get  any  possession  upon  the 
land  of  Zion,  it  will  be  by  purchase,  not 
by  force.  This  has  been  the  will  of  the 
Lord  from  the  beginning.  He  has  never 
allowed  his  people  to  take  possession  of 
any  property  by  force.  When  the  Child- 
ren of  Israel  were  taken  from  Egyptian 
bondage  and  promised  an  inheritance  in 
what  is  called  the  "land  flowing  with 
milk  and  honey,"  it  was  not  the  design 
of  the  Lord  that  they  should  get  posses- 
sion of  that  land  by  force.    Upon  the 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


banks  of  the  Red  Sea,  after  they  had 
crossed  over  by  the  miraculous  inter- 
position of  providence,  he  presented  to 
them  the  same  principles  of  salvation 
and  exaltation  as  he  has  presented  to 
us.  But  they  rejected  those  principles, 
and  then  he  told  them  what  should  be 
the  results  of  that  rejection.  He  pro- 
posed to  make  them  a  nation  of  king's 
and  priests,  and  there  is  only  one  way 
to  do  that,  and  that  is  through  the  ever- 
lasting- Gospel  in  all  its  fullness. 

He  told  them  that  he  would  send  the 
hornet  before  them  to  drive  out  the  peo- 
ple from  the  land  that  he  proposed  to 
bestow  upon  them.  But.  as  I  have  said, 
they  rejected  the  principles  that  were 
presented  to  them,  and  therefore  the 
Lord,  through  their  disobedience,  was 
compelled  to  give  them  another  law. 

We  are  told  in  the  29th  verse,  which 
I  have  read: 

"Wherefore  the  land  of  Zion  shall  not 
he  obtained  (not  mav  not  be,  or  can  not 
be.  hut  shall  not  bp"*  but  bv  purchase 
or  by  blood,  otherwise  there  is  none 
inheritance  for  you." 

That  which  T  have  read  from  the  63rd 
Section  has  been  literally  fulfilled.  The 
Lord  provided  a  way  whereby  they 
could  secure  the  means  tn  purchase 
that  country,  namely  by  the  law  of 
consecration.  There  was  no  one  man 
in  the  Church  that  could  have  bought 
that  land;  there  were  no  two  men,  or 
half  a  dozen  men,  or  a  hundred  men 
that  could  have  bought  it.  The  people 
as  a  general  thing  were  poor.  There 
were  no  rich  men  that  received  the  Gos- 
pel in  those  early  days.  But  by  combin- 
ation and  union  they  could  have  secured 
the  means  to  carry  out  the  purposes 
of  the  Almighty  in  regard  to  the  pur- 
chase of  that  country.  They  failed  be- 
cause of  their  love  for  money.  In  a  re- 
velation after  this  we  are  told  that  they 
failed  to  give  their  names  as  they  were 
commanded.  The  Lord  sent  Elders 
throughout  the  States,  where  there  were 
Latter-day  Saints  to  collect  means 
for  this  purpose,  and  the  people  in  Jack- 
son County  were  required  to  observe 
the  law  of  consecration.  But  they  fail- 
ed to  do  it,  and  therefore  the  lands  were 
not  secured.  The  Lord  could  have  sus- 
tained the  people  against  the  encroach- 
ments of  their  enemies  had  they  placed 
themselves  in  a  condition  where  he 
would  have  been  justified  In  doing  so. 


But  inasmuch  as  they  would  not  com- 
ply with  His  requirements,  the  Lord 
could  not  sustain  them  against  their 
enemies.  So  it  will  be  with  us,  or  with 
any  people  whom  the  Lord  calls  to  com- 
ply with  His  requirements  and  whom 
He  proposes  to  confer  the  highest  bless- 
ings upon,  as  He  has  in  reference  to  us, 
and  as  He  did  in  reference  to  the  people 
in  Jackson  County. 

There  having  been  a  failure  in  regard 
to  this  law  of  consecration — a  failure  so 
serious  that  it  resulted  in  great  misery 
to  the  people  of  God — a  few  years  after 
that  the  Lord  gave  another  law  for  the 
Saints  to  observe  in  place  of  the  law  of 
consecration.  It  is  called  the  law  of 
tithing.  If  we  look  upon  this  law  in  its 
proper  light,  we  will  see  the  importance 
of  it  and  the  danger  that  will  result  if 
we  fail  to  observe  it.  It  would  hardly 
be  justice  in  our  Heavenly  Father  if  He 
were  to  deal  with  the  Latter-day  Saints 
now  in  any  way  different  from  that  in 
which  He  dealt  with  His  ppople  in  Jack- 
son County.  If  we  find  out  what  result- 
ed from  their  failure  in  the  law  of  con- 
secration, we  may,  I  think,  very  read- 
ily and  reasonably  conclude  what  will 
be  the  result  of  a  failure  in  reference 
to  this  law  that  has  been  put  before  us 
in  place  of  the  law  of  consecration.  I 
dare  say  that  it  seems  to  some  persons 
who  are  not  in  the  habit  of  reflecting 
much  that  the  Lord  is  severe  under  cer- 
tain circumstances.  When  we  consider 
what  transpired  here  a  few  years  ago 
in  this  beautiful  country  and  the  dis- 
tress that  was  visited  upon  the  men, 
women  and  children,  we  might  think 
there  was  some  severity  about  that. 
The  same  in  reference  to  what  followed 
a  disobedience  to  this  law  of  consecra- 
tion in  the  early  days  of  the  Church. 
The  Lord  told  the  Saints  who 
formed  that  colony  in  Jackson 
County  what  should  be  the  results  if 
they  failed  to  observe  the  law  of  con- 
secration. He  said:  "Ye  shall  be 
scourged  from  city  to  city  and  from 
synagogue  to  synagogue,  and  but  few 
shall  stand  to  receive  an  inheritance." 

I  do  not  wish  to  speak  very  long:  I  do 
not  expect  my  voice  will  allow  me;  but 
I  want  to  read  an  extract  showing  what 
followed  a  disobedience  of  consecration. 
And  in  this  connection  I  want  you  to 
distinctly  understand  that  the  Lord  cer- 
tainly    could     have     preserved  the 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


25 


Saints  there  had  they  obeyed  His 
will.  We  will  see  what  followed  it  for 
disobedience.  We  will  not  follow  it  for 
many  years  from  that  time,  but  will 
take  the  immediate  results  of  their  dis- 
obedience to  the  law  of  consecration. 
Then  before  I  get  through,  I  will  show 
you  something  that  I  think  we  can 
take  satisfaction  in.  It  is  not  all  bad 
that  I  am  going  to  talk  to  you  this 
morning.  Here  is  an  extract  taken 
from  the  history  of  Joseph  Smith  in 
the   Millennial   Star,   Vol.  14: 

"Friday,  November  1,  1833,  I  left 
Buffalo,  New  York,  at  eight  o'clock  a. 
m.,  and  arrived  at  my  house  in  Kirt- 
land  on  Monday  the  4th,  ten  a.  m.,  and 
found  my  family  well,  acording  to 
the  promise  of  the  Lord  in  the  reve- 
lation of  Oct.  12th,  for  which  I  felt 
to   thank   my   heavenly  Father. 

"Thursday  night,  the  31st  of  October, 
gave  the  Saints  in  Zion  abundant  proof 
that  no  pledge,  written  or  verbal,  was 
longer  to  be  regarded;  for  on  that  night, 
between  forty  and  fifty  persons  in  num- 
ber, many  of  whom  were  armed  with 
guns  proceeded  against  a  branch  of  the 
Church  west  of  the  Big-Blue,  and  un- 
roofed, and  partly  demolished,  ten 
dwelling  houses;  and  in  the  midst  of  the 
shrieks  and  screams  of  women  and 
children,  whipped  and  beat  in  a  sav- 
age and  brutal  manner,  several  of  the 
men;  and  with  their  horrid  threats 
frightened  women  and  children  into 
the  wilderness.  Such  of  them 
as  could  escape,  fled  for  their 
lives;  for  very  few  of  them  had  arms, 
neither  were  they  embodied;  and  they 
were  threatened  with  death  if  they 
made  any  resistance:  such  therefore  as 
could  not  escape  by  flight,  received  a 
pelting  by  rocks,  and  a  beating  with 
guns,  sticks,  etc. 

"On  Friday,  the  1st  of  November,  wo- 
men and  children  sallied  forth  from  their 
gloomy  retreats,  to  contemplate  with 
heartrending  anguish,  the  ravages  of 
a  ruthless  mob,  in  the  mangled  bodies 
of  their  husbands,  and  in  the  destruc- 
tion of  their  houses,  and  some  of  their 
furniture.  Houseless,  and  unprotected 
by  the  arm  of  the  civil  law  in  Jackson 
County:  the  dreary  month  of  November 
staring  them  in  the  face,  and  loudly 
proclaiming  an  inclement  season  at 
hand:  the  continual  threats  of  the  mob, 
that  they  would  drive  out  every  "Mor- 
mon" from  the  country;  and  the  in- 
ability of  many  to  remove,  because  of 
their  poverty,  caused  an  anguish  of 
heart  indescribable. 

"On  Friday  night,  the  1st  of  November, 
a  party  of  the  mob  proceeded  to  attack 
a  Branch  of  the  Church  at  the  Prairie, 
about  twelve  or  fourteen  miles  from  the 
village. 

"Two  of  their  number  were  sent  in  ad- 
vance, as  spies,  viz:  Robert  Johnson, 
and  one  Harris,  armed  with  two  guns 


and  three  pistols.  They  were  discovered 
by  some  of  the  Saints,  and  without  the 
least  injury  being  done  to  them,  said 
Johnson  struck  Parley  P.  Pratt  with 
the  breach  of  his  gun,  over  the  head; 
after  which  they  were  taken  and  de- 
tained 'till  morning;  which,  it  was  be- 
lieved, prevented  a  general  attack  of  the 
mob  that  night.  In  the  morning,  they 
were  liberated  without  receiving  the 
least  injury. 

"The  same  night  (Friday)  another 
party  in  Independence,  commenced 
stoning  houses,  breaking  down  doors 
and  windows,  destroying  furniture,  etc. 
This  night  the  brick  part  attached  to 
the  dwelling  house  of  A.  S.  Gilbert,  was 
partly  pulled  down,  and  the  windows  of 
his  dwelling  broken  in  with  brick-bats 
and  rocks,  while  a  gentleman  stranger 
lay  sick  with  a  fever  in  his  house. 

"The  same  night,  three  doors  of  the 
store  of  Messrs.  Gilbert  and  Whitney 
were  split  open;  and  after  midnight,  the 
goods  lay  scattered  in  the  streets,  such 
as  calicoes,  handkerchiefs,  shawls,  cam- 
brics, etc.  An  express  came  from  the 
village  after  midnight  to  a  party  of 
their  men,  who  had  embodied  about  half 
a  mile  from  the  village  for  the  safety 
of  their  lives;  stating  that  the  mob  were 
tearing  down  houses,  and  scatter- 
ing the  goods  of  the  store  in  the  streets. 
The  main  body  of  the  mob  fled  at  the 
approach  of  this  company.  One  Richard 
McCarty  was  caught  in  the  act  of 
throwing  rocks  and  brick-bats  into  the 
doors,  while  the  goods  lay  strung 
around  him  in  the  streets;  and  was  im- 
mediately taken  before  Samuel  Weston, 
Esq.,  and  a  complaint  was  then  made 
to  said  Weston,  and  a  warrant  request- 
ed, that  said  McCarty  might  be  secured; 
but  said  Weston  refused  to  do  anything 
in  the  case  at  that  time.  Said  McCarty 
was  then  liberated. 

"The  same  night,  some  of  their  houses 
in  the  village  had  long  poles  thrust 
through  the  shutters  and  sashes  into 
the  rooms  of  defenceless  women  and 
children,  from  whence  their  husbands 
and  fathers  had  been  driven  by  the 
dastardly  attacks  of  the  mob,  which 
were  made  by  ten,  fifteen,  or  twenty 
men  upon  a  house  at  a  time. 
"Saturday,  the  second  of  November,  all 
the  families  of  the  Saints  in  the  village 
moved  about  half  a  mile  out.  with  most 
of  their  goods,  and  embodied  to  the 
number  of  thirty,  for  the  preservation 
of  life  and  personal  effects.  This  night 
a  party  from  the  village  met  a.  party 
from  the  west  of  the  Blue,  and  made 
at  attack  upon  a  Branch  of  the  Church, 
located  at  the  Blue,  about  six  miles 
from  the  village.  Here  they  tore  the 
roof  from  one  dwelling,  and  broke 
open  another  house,  found  the  owner, 
David  Bennett,  sick  in  bed,  whom  they 
beat  most  inhumanly,  swearing  they 
would  blow  out  his  brains;  and  dis- 
charged a  pistol,  the  ball  of  which  cut 
a  deeD  gash  across  the  top  of  his  head. 
In  this  skirmish,  a  young  man  of  the 
mob  was  shot  in  the  thigh;  but,  by 


26 


GENERAL  CONFEREhi  CE. 


which  party,  remains  yet  to  be  deter- 
mined. 

The  next  day,  Sunday,  Nov.  3rd,  four 
of  the  Church,  viz.,  Joshua  Lewis, 
Hiram  Page,  and  two  others,  were  dis- 
patched for  Lexington,  to  see  the  cir- 
cuit judge,  and  obtain  a  peace  warrant. 
Two  called  on  Squire  Silvers,  who  re- 
fused to  issue  one,  on  account,  as  he 
has  declared,  of  his  fears  of  the  mob. 
This  day  many  of  the  citizens,  profess- 
ing friendship,  advised  the  Saints  to 
clear  from  the  country  as  speedily  as 
possible;  for  the  Saturday  night  affray 
had  enraged  the  whole  country,  and 
they  were  determined  to  come  out  on 
Monday,  and  massacre  indiscriminate- 
ly; and,  in  short,  it  was  proverbial 
among  the  mob,  that  "Monday  would 
be  a  bloody  day." 

"Monday  came,  and  a  large  party  of 
the  mob  gathered  at  the  Blue,  took 
the  ferry  boat  belonging  to  the  Church, 
threatened  lives,  etc.  But  they  soon 
abandoned  the  ferry,  and  went  to  Wil- 
son's store,  about  one  mile  west  of  the 
Blue.  Word  had  previously  gone  to  a 
Branch  of  the  Church,  several  miles 
west  of  the  Blue,  that  the  mob  were 
destroying  property  on  the  east  side  of 
the  Blue,  and  the  sufferers  there  wanted 
help  to  preserve  their  lives  and  pro- 
perty. Nineteen  men  volunteered,  and 
started  for  their  assistance;  but  dis- 
covering that  fifty  or  sixty  of  the  mob 
had  gathered  at  said  Wilson's,  they 
turned  back. 
"At  this  time  two  small  boys  passed  on 
their  way  to  Wilson's,  who  gave  in- 
formation to  the  mob,  that  the  "Mor- 
mons" were  on  the  road  west  of  them. 
Between  forty  and  fifty  of  the  mob  im- 
mediately started  with  guns  in  pursuit; 
after  riding  two  or  two  and  a  half  miles, 
they  discovered  them,  when  the  said 
company  of  nineteen  immediately  dis- 
persed, and  fled  in  different  directions. 
The  mob  hunted  them,  turning  their 
horses  into  a  corn  field  belonging  to  the 
Saints — searching  their  corn  fields  and 
houses,  threatening  women  and  children 
that  they  would  pull  down  their  houses 
and  kill  them,  if  they  did  not  tell  where 
the  men  had  fled. 

"Thus  they  were  employed,  hunting 
the  men,  threatening  the  women,  until 
a  company  of  thirty  of  the  Saints  from 
the  prairie,  armed  with  seventeen  guns, 
made  their  appearance. 

"The  former  company  of  nineteen  had 
dispersed, and  fled,  and  but  one  or  two  of 
them  had  returned  to  take  part  in  the 
subsequent  battle.  On  the  approach  of 
the  latter  company  of  thirty  men,  some 
of  the  mob  cried,  "fire,  God  damn  ye, 
fire."  Two  or  three  guns  were  then 
fired  by  the  mob,  which  were  returned 
by  the  other  party  without  loss  of  time. 
This  company  is  the  same  that  is  re- 
presented by  the  mob  as  having  gone 
forth  in  the  evening  of  the  battle,  bear- 
ing the  olive  branch  of  peace.  The  mob 
retreated  early  after  the  first  fire,  leav- 
ing some  of  their  horses  in  Whitmer's 
corn  field,  and  two  of  their  number, 
Hugh  L.  Brazeale  and  Thomas  Linvill, 


dead  on  the  ground.  Thus  fell  H.  L. 
Brazeale,  one  who  had  been  heard  to 
say,  "with  ten  fellows,  I  will  wade  to 
my  knees  in  blood,  but  that  I  will  drive 
the  Mormons  from  Jackson  County." 
The  next  morning  the  corpse  of  said 
Brazeale  was  discovered  on  the  battle 
ground  with  a  gun  by  his  side.  Sev- 
eral were  wounded  on  both  sides,  but 
none  mortally,  except  one,  Barber,  on 
the  part  of  the  Saints,  who  expired  the 
next  day.  This  battle  was  fought  about 
sunset,  Monday,  Nov.  the  4th,  and  the 
same  night,  runners  were  dispatched 
in  every  direction  under  pretence  of 
calling  out  the  militia;  spreading  as 
they  went  every  rumor  calculated  to 
alarm  and  excite  the  unwary;  such  as, 
that  the  "Mormons"  had  taken  Inde- 
pendence, and  the  Indians  had  sur- 
rounded it,  being  colleagued  together, 
etc." 

I  understand,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  these  matters  are  not  very  pleasant 
to  dwell  upon;  yet  they  occurred,  and 
the  Saints  had  to  meet  them.  We  will 
have  to>  meet  them  in  the  future,  if  we 
allow  ourselves  to  be  placed  In  the  same 
condition  of  disobedience  as  were  the 
people  that  colonized  Jackson  County. 
We  cannot  expect  anything  different. 
The  Lord  is  the  same  today  as  He  was 
yesterday.  I  present  these  things  to 
you  this  morning  that  you  may  reflect 
upon  them,  and  be  more  ambitious  in 
endeavoring  to  keep  clear  of  such  pos- 
sibilities. They  are  only  a  portion  of  the 
sad  results  that  followed  disobedience 
to  the  law  of  consecration.  The 
Saints  pursued  a  course  whereby 
the  Lord  could  not  justify  himself  in 
preserving  them  upon  the  land  of  Zion. 
It  was  decreed  of  the  Almighty  that 
that  land  should  be  purchased,  as  I 
have  read  to  you.  I  remember  one 
time  hearing  President  Hyde  (I  think  it 
was)  speaking  in  regard  to  our  going 
back  to  Jackson  County,  and  he  said 
that  inasmuch  as  they  had  abused  the 
Saints  and  wrested  from  them  some 
of  their  possessions,  when  we 
went  back  we  would  follow  the  same 
course  toward  them.  After  he  had  got 
through,  President  Young  spoke  upon 
this,  and  he  said  the  Latter-day  Saints 
never  would  get  possession  of  that 
land  by  fighting  and  destroying  life; 
but  we  would  purchase  the  land,  as  the 
Lord  had  commanded  in  the  first  place. 
And  I  will  tell  you  that  that  land  never 
will  be  purchased,  except  it  is  purchas- 
ed by  the  tithing  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  their  consecrations;  never 
worlds  without  end.    But  the  Latter- 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


27 


day  Saints  never  will  be  in  that  condi- 
tion of  disobedience  as  were  the  people 
that  colonized  Jackson  County.  A  re- 
formation has  taken  place  during  the 
last  few  months  that  is  perfectly  mar- 
velous. I  am  amazed  at  what  has  been 
the  result  of  our  teachings  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  upon  the  principle  of 
tithing.  I  will  read  this  law  of  tithing 
as  it  is  given  in  Section  119  of  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  I  ask 
you  brethren  to  read  it  when  you  get 
home;  not  only  once,  but  all  the  time 
until  you  understand  it  thoroughly  and 
distinctly,  though  it  is  so  simple  and 
plain  that  one  would  imagine  that  read- 
ing it  once  would  be  sufficient. 

"Revelation  given  through  Joseph, 
the  Prophet,  at  Far  Wesf  Missouri, 
July  8th,  1838,  in  answer  to  the  question, 
O  Lord,  show  unto  thy  servants  how 
much  thou  requirest  of  the  properties 
of  the  people  for  a  tithing?" 

That  is  a  plain  request,  and  the  an- 
swer is  equally  as  plain. 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord.  I  require 
all  their  surplus  property  to  be  put  into 
the  hands  of  the  bishop  of  my  church 
of  Zion." 

T  want  to  say  a  word  in  reference 
to  this  surplus  property.  The  Pro- 
phet Joseph  explained  how  it  should  be 
given.  When  a  person  wished  to  con- 
secrate property,  the  Bishop  and  the 
person  desiring  to  consecrate  should 
determine  what  was  right  in  the  mat- 
ter, and  if  they  could  not  agree,  it 
should  be  left  to  twelve  High  Priests 
to  decide,  and  the  Bishop  should  not 
be  one  of  the  number. 

"For  the  building  of  mine  house,  and 
for  the  laying  of  the  foundation  of  Zion, 
and  for  the  Priesthood  and  for  the 
debts  of  the  Presidency  of  my  church." 

This  Church  could  not  go  on  unless 
there  was  revenue,  and  this  revenue 
God  has  provided  for.  Our  temples,  in 
which  we  receive  the  highest  blessings 
ever  conferred  on  mortal  man,  are 
built  through  revenue.  We  never  could 
send  the  two  thousand  Elders  out  into 
the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel,  as  we 
are  now  doing,  unless  there  was  revenue 
to  do  it.  It  costs  tens  of  thousands  of 
dollars,  running  into  the  hundreds  of 
thousands,  to  send  our  Elders  out  to  the 
world  year  after  year.  Then  there  are 
a  thousand  other  things  constantly  oc- 
curring for  which  means  are  required. 
$40,000  or  $50,000  is  required  yearly  to 
support  the  poor. 


"And  this  shall  be  the  beginning  of 
the  tithing  of  my  people. 

'And  after  that,  those  who  had  thus 
been  tithed,  shall  pay  one  tenth  of  all 
their  interest  annually.'" 

This  will  be  explained  to  you  here- 
after, although  it  is  perhaps  a  little 
strange  that  there  should  be  any  neces- 
sity of  explaining  it.  It  is  like  the 
school  boy,  however,  when  he  com- 
mences to  learn  the  alphabet.  The 
letter  A  is  pointed  out  to  him  by  the 
teacher,  and  tells  him  what  it  is  and 
asks  him  to  please  remember  it.  The 
next  letter,  B,  is  pointed  out,  and 
the  boy  is  asked  to  remember  that.  The 
teacher  then  returns  to  A.  What  letter 
is  that?  The  boy  has  forgotten  and  it 
has  to  be  repeated  by  the  teacher. 
Will  you  please  remember  it  now?  The 
boy  says,  "O  yes,  I'll  remember  it."  He 
feels  sure  that  he  can  remember  it  now. 
But  when  the  teacher  returns  to  the  let- 
ter once  more,  the  boy  has  forgotten 
it  again.  So  they  go  through  the  alpha- 
bet, having  to  repeat  each  letter  over 
and  over  again.  It  is  the  same  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  to  talk 
to  them,  and  keep  talking  to  them. 
Well,  that  is  our  business,  so  we  need 
not  worry  about  it.  The  Lord  contin- 
ues: 

"And  this  shall  be  a  standing  law 
unto  them  for  ever,  for  my  Holy  Priest- 
hood, saith  the  Lord." 

That  law  is  just  as  important  and  sac- 
red today  as  when  it  first  came  from 
the  Lord. 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  it  shall  come 
to  pass  that  all  those  who  gather  unto 
the  land  of  Zion  shall  be  tithed  of  their 
surplus  properties,  and  shall  observe 
this  law,  or  they  shall  not  be  found 
worthy  to  abide  among  you." 

No  more  than  the  people  in  Jackson 
were  found  worthy  to  remain 
in  Jackson  County.  Tou  will  be  shown 
probably  hereafter  that  their  names 
shall  not  be  recorded  in  the  book  of  the 
law  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  names  of 
their  fathers  nor  the  names  of  their 
children.  If  we  had  time  and  Bishop 
Preston  could  talk  to  you  about  this, 
he  would  show  you  that  the  name  of 
every  man,  woman  and  child  who  pays 
tithing  is  recorded  and  none  others. 

"And  I  say  unto  you,  if  my  people 
observe  not  this  law  to  keep  it  holy. — " 

No  man  can  keep  this  law  holy  unless 
he  pay  a  conscientious  tithing. 


GENER  AL  C  ONFERENCE. 


"If  mv  people  observe  not  this  law, 
to  keep  it  holy,  and  by  this  law  sanctify 
the  land  of  Zion  unto  me.  that  my  stat- 
utes and  judgments  may  be  kept  there- 
on, that  it  may  be  most  holy,  behold, 
verily  I  say  unto  you,  it  shall  not  be  a 
land  of  Zion  unto  you.  And  this  shall 
be  an  ensample  unto  all  the  Stakes  of 
Zion." 

If  some  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  had 
not  paid  tithing  our  four  Temples  here 
never  would  have  been  erected,  and  the 
judgments  and  statutes  of  God  pertain- 
ing unto  exaltation  and  glory  never 
could  have  been  kept.  The  first  prin- 
ciple of  action  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
is  to  sanctify  the  land  by  keeping  this 
law  of  tithing  and  placing  themselves 
in  a  position  where  they  can  receive  the 
ordinances  that  pertain  unto  exaltation 
and  glory  of  our  dead. 

Now  we  will  turn  to  the  more  pleas- 
ing part  of  the  subject,  and  see  what 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  doing 
since  this  matter  was  brought  to  their 
attention  in  St.  George.  In  the  month 
of  May  the  Lord  manifested  to  me  most 
clearly  that  it  was  my  business  and  the 
business  of  the  Elders  of  Israel  to  go 
speedily  and  teach  this  principle  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  because  there  had 
been  woeful  neglect  of  this  law,  and 
the  Latter-day  Saints  should  be  shown 
the  necessity  of  observing  this  law  most 
faithfully,  or  else  the  results  would  not 
be  agreeable  to  say  the  least.  We  have 
been  talking  about  this  since  the  latter 
part  of  May,  and  it  has  been  a  matter 
of  deep  consideration  and  thought  as  to 
how  much  talk  would  affect  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  In  looking  over  the  books 
we  found  that  a  great  many  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  had  not  paid  one 
cent  of  tithing.  I  was  perfectly  aston- 
ished, for  I  had  no  idea  that  there 
had  been  such  neglect.  But  the  Saints 
have  been  wonderfully  awakened,  and 
it  is  marvelous  what  they  have  done 
in  the  past  few  months.  I  am  now  go- 
ing to  read  to  you  in  regard  to  the  re- 
sult of  our  talking  to  the  Saints.  We 
have  the  greatest  pleasure  and  satis- 
faction in  knowing  what  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  doing  now  in  comparison 
with  what  they  have  done  for  many 
years  past: 

Cash  titliing  paid  in  June.  1898  S23.000 

"  "      1899   28,700 

Increase  In  1899  $5,700 


Cash  tithing  paid  in  July,  1898   $17,900 

1899    50,300 

Increase  in  1>93  $32,400 

Cash  tithing  paid  in  August,  1808  *14,800 

•   "        1899   37,500 

Increase  in  1899  $22,400 

Cash  tithing  paid  in  September,  1898  $11,400 

1899   46.700 

Increase  in  1899  $35,300 


The  total  paid  in  these  four  months 
last  year  was  $67,700.  The  total  paid  the 
same  four  months  this  year,  1899,  was 
$164,900,  making  an  increase  of  $95,800 
for  the  four  months.  In  October,  1898, 
$18,000  was  paid,  and  during  the  six 
days  that  are  now  past  of  this  month 
$22,000  has  been  paid. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
want  to  have  this  principle  so  fixed 
upon  our  hearts  that  we  shall  never 
forget  it.  As  I  have  said  more  than 
once,  I  know  that  the  Lord  will  forgive 
the  Latter-day  Saints  for  their  past 
negligence  in  paying  tithing,  if  they 
will  now  repent  and  pay  a  conscientious 
tithing  from  this  time  on.  But  it  would 
be  woeful  to  think  of  the  results  if  the 
Latter-day  Saints  had  failed  to  listen  to 
the  voice  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 
It  is  God's  truth  that  the  time  has  now 
come  when  He  will  not  look  favorably 
upon  our  negligence  of  this  principle.  I 
plead  with  you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
and  I  pray  that  every  man,  woman 
and  child  who  has  means  shall  pay  one- 
tenth  of  their  income  as  a  tithing.  I 
beseech  you  to  do  this  for  the  time  has 
now  come  when  the  Lord  is  prepared  to 
bestow  upon  us  the  choicest  blessings. 
Our  enemies  are  upon  our  path,  and  will 
if  possible  make  us  trouble.  If  we  are 
unfaithful  in  this  matter  the  same  re- 
sults will  follow  us  as  followed  the  peo- 
ple in  Jackson  County.  It  is  not  our 
business  to  fight  our  enemies.  There  is 
no  man  or  woman  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  but  is  our  brother  or  our  sister. 
They  are  the  children  of  God  and  we 
are  here  to  bear  and  forbear  with  them 
in  their  interest  and  for  the  glory  of 
God.  It  is  not  our  business  to  destroy 
life.  It  is  not  our  business  to  make 
war  upon  our  enemies.  They  should  let 
us  alone.  I  would  not  say  that  I  could 
govern  and  control  by  passions  if  a  man 
Mere  to  try  to  take  my  life.  That  is 
another  thing  altogether.  But  it  Is  not 
our  business  to  fight  them.  They  are 
our  brethren  and  sisters  and  God  hav« 


ELDER  JOHN  HEhRY  SMI1 H 


29 


mercy  upon  them.  That  should  be  our 
prayer.  There  are  thousands  of  people 
that  are  fighting  against  us  who  would, 
if  they  knew  what  we  know,  lay  down 
their  weapons  and  suppress  the  spirit 
to  contend  against  us.  The  time  will 
come  when  they  will  know  it.  It  will 
not  be  in  our  day,  but  it  will  be  in 
somebody's  day  here  on  the  earth,  or  on 
some  other  earth.  It  is  our  business  to 
do  what  the  Lord  requires  of  us,  and 
He  will  protect  us.  It  is  very  easy  for 
the  Lord  to  protect  us  and  to  overrule 
our  enemies'  intentions  that  they  may 
not  interfere  with  our  interests.  God 
bless  you.  Let  us  observe  the  law  of 
God.  Do  not  forget  what  the  Lord  re- 
quires of  us  today.  Be  faithful  today, 
and  when  tomorrow  comes  we  will  be 
the  better  prepared  to  be  faithful  then. 
So  let  us  continue  day  after  day,  and 
bye  and  bye  we  will  be  relieved  of  this 
body  of  sin  and  corruption,  sorrow,  and 
grief,  and  we  will  have  another  body, 
exalted  and  glorified,  and  we  will  dwell 
in  the  presence  of  God.  We  will  be  there 
together  and  talk  with  one  another  as 
we  are  doing  today.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 

The  Hearts  of  Men  S>ftened  Toward  lire  Saints  Ac- 
cording to  Divine  Promise — The  Lord  will 
Fight  the  Battles  of  the  Saints— A  Plea  for  the 
Brigham  Young  Monument  —  In  Kelation 
to  Amusements — The  Law  of  Tithing. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  with  you  I 
believe  that  our  services  this  morning 
should  be  most  deeply  impressed  upon 
every  mind,  and  rather  than  to  speak 
myself  I  certainly  would  much  prefer 
to  remain  in  thought  upon  the  sug- 
gestions couched  in  the  discourse  of 
President  Snow,  bearing  upon  the  well- 
being  of  the  Saints  in  the  early  days 
of  this  Church  and  the  trying  experi- 
ences through  which  they  were  com- 
pelled to  go.  In  considering  the  cir- 
cumstances surrounding  our  brothers 
and  sisters  in  that  day  and  those  which 
surround  us  today,  I  feel  that  I  would 
like  to  fix  an  idea  in  my  own  mind 
which  would  guard  me,  in  the  perform- 
ance of  my  part  in  connection  with 
the  work  of  God,  from  the  possibility 
of  that  severe  experience  through 
which  the  Saints  passed  during  that 
time.  I  feel  not  only  so  with  regard 
to  myself,  but  I  would  like  to  see  it 


possible  to  eliminate  from  the  experi- 
ences of  my  brothers  and  sisters  such 
trials.  I  believe  thoroughly  that  if  we 
can  apply  to  our  lives  each  doctrine  of 
the  Gospel,  and  earnestly  seek  to  im- 
press upon  the  circles  in  which  we 
move,  the  necessity  of  a  strict  obedi- 
ence to  each  ordinance  established  in 
the  Lord's  House,  the  promise  that  has 
been  given  us  will  be  fully  realized. 
Not  that  I  anticipate  for  a  moment 
that  the  victory  is  gained  and  that  the 
enemy  of  all  righteousness  will  be 
speedily  and  thoroughly  subdued.  Our 
Father  has  made  the  promise  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  He  would  soften 
the  hearts  of  their  enemies  from  time 
to  time  until  they  gain  strength.  He 
has  fulfilled  this  promise  in  the  years 
that  are  past  and  gone.  Men  whose 
hearts  seemed  embittered,  to  an  extent 
that  was  alarming,  against  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  have  modified  their  feelings 
and  their  actions  in  fulfillment  of  this 
promise  of  our  Father.  I  believe  that 
in  future  times  like  conditions  will 
arise,  until  in  the  providence  of  God 
His  people  shall  be  so  fully  established 
in  the  understanding  of  the  truth  and 
in  power  in  the  world  that  they  will 
stand  firm  and  readily  obey  every  re- 
quirement of  the  Gospel,  and  in  that 
obedience  mankind  will  prove  the 
generosity  of  the  work  of  God  in  its 
dealings  with  the  children  of  men.  In- 
stead of  their  standing  in  dread  of  it 
and  the  development  of  its  power,  they 
will  recognize  that  its  growth  means 
an  advance  in  the  interests  of  morality 
and  honesty,  and  a  spread  of  that 
sentiment  which  leads  to  the  protec- 
tion and  preservation  of  the  liberties 
of  the  children  of  men.  This  is  its  mis- 
sion. The  consciences  of  men  through- 
out the  world  are  to  be  guarded  and 
protected  by  it.  Under  its  guardian 
care  men  shall  be  able  to  exercise  their 
right  of  conscience  untrammeled  and 
fulfill  their  mission  on  the  earth  in  the 
way  in  which  they  deem  best,  without, 
however,  interfering  with  or  trampling 
upon  the  right  of  their  fellowmen. 

I  have  in  my  mind  several  subjects 
upon  which  I  would  like  to  speak 
briefly.  I  do  not  desire,  however,  to 
take  your  minds  away  from  the  utter- 
ances of  our  President  this  morning, 
who  has  brought  before  us  the  history 
of  the  past  and  the  failures  that  have 
arisen  from  time  to  time,  and  given 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  us  anew  the  promises  of  God,  inas- 
much as  we  will  do  our  Father's  bid- 
ding and  keep  His  commandments.  If 
we  will  do  this  God  will  right  our  bat- 
tles; we  shall  not  be  compelled  to  shed 
blood,  but,  by  the  means  prescribed 
by  the  Master,  we  shall  establish  His 
Latter-day  Zion  upon  the  basis  of  the 
legitimate  possession  of  the  soil  and  in 
the  improvements  that  shall  be  made 
thereon,  the  result  of  that  industry  and 
determination  which  successfully  builds 
empires  and  ennobles  the  people  who 
live  within  those  empires. 

One  subject  upon  which  I  desire  to 
speak  to  you  for  a  short  period  of  time 
is  the  question  of  the  finishing  of  the 
Brigham  Young  monument.  About  one- 
half  of  that  which  we  contracted  to 
pay  through  our  committee  has  been 
paid  for  the  construction  of  that  monu- 
ment. The  part  that  has  been  paid 
for,  according  to  the  claim  of  the  artist, 
is  the  work  of  modelling,  and  not  the 
work  of  casting  the  statue  of  President 
Young  and  the  other  figures  that  are 
to  adorn  the  monument.  We  would 
have  you  remember  that  the  monu- 
ment is  only  about  half  completed  at 
the  present  time.  There  are  other 
figures  to  be  placed  upon  it.  I  believe 
that  the  brethren  and  sisters  have  not 
recognized  their  responsibility  in  con- 
nection with  this  matter  as  fully  as 
they  should.  Many  have  done  their  full 
duty  in  connection  with  it.  On  the 
other  hand,  hundreds  and  perhaps 
thousands  of  the  people  have  not  given 
that  aid  which  they  should  do  towards 
the  completion  of  that  structure.  I 
take  the  view  that  it  was  the  will  of 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church  that  that 
work  should  be  done,  or  it  would  not 
have  been  attempted.  It  has  proceed- 
ed thus  far.  It  now  needs  completion. 
The  gentleman  who  did  the  work  has 
been  extremely  modest  in  his  demands 
so  far,  but  now  he  begins  to  feel  that 
he  should  have  some  consideration  for 
the  work  done.  I  believe  that  he  should. 
The  statue  was  placed  in  position  really 
without  his  consent,  as  he  believed  that 
it  would  result  in  a  stoppage  upon  the 
part  of  the  people,  contributing  the 
necessary  funds.  But  the  committee 
felt  that  the  people  within  our  borders 
who  admire  the  character  of  the  sturdy 
men  who  laid  the  foundation  of  these 
western  commonwealths,  would  readily 
respond  to  the  obligations    that  at- 


tached to  the  construction  of  that 
monument.  I  fully  believe  myself  that 
such  will  be  the  case  when  the  people 
shall  fully  understand  the  situation.  I 
trust,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we 
will  show  the  same  loyalty,  devotion 
and  earnestness  in  connection  with  this 
work  that  has  characterized  some  of 
the  men,  who  in  their  lives  have  fought 
President  Young's  work  in  this  inter- 
mountain  region,  but  who  recognize  the 
worth  of  his  great  character  and  the 
sturdy  strength  and  undying  will  of  the 
noble  band  who,  in  connection  with 
him,  laid  the  foundation  of  these  com- 
monwealths and  put  us  in  the  exalted 
station  that  we  occupy  today  in  the 
world's  history,  especially  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  western  part  of  the  United 
States.  There  remains  unpaid  about 
one-half  of  the  means  that  was  origin- 
ally deemed  necessary  to  complete  that 
work.  It  has  been  distributed  among 
the  Stakes,  and  to  the  credit  of  a  few 
Stakes,  let  it  be  said  they  have  ful- 
filled their  full  part  in  regard  to  this 
matter.  Such  has  been  the  case  with 
Maricopa  Stake,  Snowflake  Stake,  and 
Tooele  Stake;  and  some  of  the  other 
Stakes  have  nearly  paid  the  proportion 
that  was  allotted  to  them.  I  realize 
that  there  exists  in  the  minds  of  quite 
a  number  of  people  a  feeling  that  the 
scriptures  forbid  the  construction  of 
monuments,  from  the  fact  that  it  is 
said  somewhere  in  the  Bible  that  we 
should  not  make  any  graven  images  to 
worship  them.  Because  of  this,  preju- 
dice has  been  aroused  in  the  minds  of 
some  people,  and  has  without  doubt 
restrained  a  few  from  the  fulfillment  of 
their  part  in  connection  with  this  work. 
It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  not  pro- 
per on  the  part  of  any  one.  There  is 
not  one  of  us,  I  presume,  that  would 
for  a  moment,  as  we  pass  the  struc- 
ture upon  which  stands  the  statue  of 
President  Young,  bow  our  heads  in  any 
sense  to  worship  that  image,  which 
represents  this  heroic  character  of  the 
past.  But,  when  reading  the  names 
that  are  inscribed  upon  that  stone,  each 
one  should  recognize  the  efforts  made 
by  that  noble  band,  the  sufferings  they 
endured  and  their  determination  to  give 
to  their  people  and  the  down-trodden 
of  every  section  of  the  world  that  might 
desire  it,  the  opportunities  and  privi- 
leges presented  in  the  development  of 
this  western  country,  and  acknowledge 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRI  SMI1 H. 


31 


that  they  fulfilled  their  mission  in  honor 
and   with   credit   to  the   cause  which 
they  represented.    I  am  one  of  those 
who   believe   that   nations   can   do  no 
more  good  in  developing  the  patriotism 
of  their  sons  and  daughters   than  in 
the  recording  of  the  heroic   deeds  of 
valor  in  war,  in  statesmanship,  in  the 
laying  of  the  foundations  of  common- 
wealths, and  in  the  development  of  the 
temporal  and  spiritual  interests  of  the 
people.    As  I  pass  among  the  cities  of 
the  world,  I  note  with  pride  the  evi- 
dences of  the  worth  in  which  scholars 
have  been  held  by  the  people  among 
whom  they  have  lived,  or  by  the  peo- 
ple who,  after  their  death  have  dis- 
covered their  merits  in  the  things  they 
have  written,  in  the  laws  they  have 
sought  to  enact  and  in  the  spirit  that 
has  been  impressed  upon  the  hearts  of 
people  who  have  become  imbued  with 
,  their  thoughts  and  actions.    The  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  desire  to  have  stamped 
upon   the   souls   of     their     sons  and 
daughters  the  same  heroic  aspirations, 
the  same  undying  devotion  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  justice,  mercy  and  true  re- 
ligion that  characterized  that  band  of 
men  who  laid  the  foundations  of  our 
commonwealth  and  opened  the  door  for 
the  successes  that  have  come  to  the 
homes  of  the  people  of  Utah,  of  Idaho, 
of  Wyoming,  of  Colorado,  of  Arizona, 
of  Nevada,  California,  of  Oregon  and 
of  Washington.    They  laid  the  founda- 
tion of  the  village  system,  which  put 
us  in  possession  of  the  enjoyment  of 
privileges   that  few  other  sections  of 
the  world  have.     Other  peoples  have 
separated  the  city  from  the  country, 
but  with  us-  it  is  a  combination  of  the 
city  and  country.    I  trust  that  no  man 
will  raise  his  voice  against  the  com- 
pletion of  that  work,  and  fail  in  any 
sense  to  perform  his  whole  part  in  See- 
ing that  the  men  who  did  this  work 
shall  be  held  in  memory,  and  that  our 
sons  and  daughters,  as  they  look  upon 
the  one  who  acted  the  chief  part  in 
connection  with  the  development  of  this 
work,  shall  see  in  that  figure  and  form 
that  which  is  emblematic  of  the  hero, 
who  exhibited  the  powers  of  the  states- 
man, the  leader,  the  guide,  the  pioneer, 
and  who  did  all  upon  the  basis  of  his 
love  for  God  and  in  harmony  with  His 
divine  law.    Wherever  we  may  go  in 
the  world  and  study  the  conditions  of 


civilization,  we  shall  find  written  the 
deeds  of  their  heroic  and  capable  sons. 
While  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  are 
given  to  man-worship,  nor  do  I  have 
any  inclination  to  bow  down  before  any 
being,  except  my  God,  I  recognize  the 
inspiration  of  the  heroic  deeds  done  in 
the  interest  of  country,  in  the  interest 
of  religion,  in  the  interest  of  science, 
in  the  interest  of  civil  government  in 
its  best  forms,  and  in  the  extension  of 
the  principles  of  liberty  and  the  open- 
ing of  the  doors  by  which  the  unfortun- 
ate can  enjoy  privileges   that  under 
other  conditions  would  be  denied  them. 
The  people  of  Utah  are  among  the  best 
and  brightest  of  the  world.    Her  edu- 
cational system  came  from  the  experi- 
ence of  men  schooled  in  adversity,  de- 
veloped and  prepared  for  the  mission 
they  had  to  perform  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Almighty  God,  and  their  names 
will  be  written  on  high  by  that  Master 
whom  they  serve.    We,  their  sons  and 
daughters,  and  they  who  have  received 
the  benefits  of  their  ministrations  and 
labors,   can   do   no     more     kindly  or 
thoughtful  act  than  to  present  to  our 
children,  in  the  form  of  a  monument 
such  as  this,  the  evidence  of  the  es- 
teem in  which  they  were  held  and  the 
work  they  accomplished  for  the  inter- 
est and  wellbeing  of  the  human  race. 
I  rejoice  when  I  see  the  names  of  the 
Father  of  our  country  and  that  grand 
body  of  men  who  developed  the  inter- 
ests of  our  nation  lauded  and  held  in 
high  esteem.  I  rejoice  when  I  see  the  na- 
tion respect  and  honor  those  who  have 
maintained  the  integrity  and  honor  of 
the  nation  in  other  lands,  and  whose 
heroic  deeds  have  been  for  the  blessing 
and  not  for  the  hurt  of  their  fellows. 
I  trust  that  the  same  spirit  and  feeling 
shall  guide  the   Latter-day   Saints  in 
this  mountain  region,  in  obeying  the 
law  of  God,   loving   the  principles  of 
righteousness,     determined  to  be  just 
and  generous  to  their  fellowmen,  and 
remembering  in  every  walk  of  life  the 
rights  and   privileges   that  are  theirs 
in  common  with  their  fellows,  without 
fear  of  the  frowns  or  of  the  favors  of 
any.    It  is  our  right  to  believe  in  God; 
it  is  our  right  to  honor  Brigham  Young 
and  the  pioneers  who  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  this  commonwealth.    It  is  our 
right  to  fulfill  the  obligations  and  du- 
ties that  rest  upon  us  as  men,  in  honor 


82 


GENERAL  COAFEREACE. 


before  our  maker.  It  Is  our  duty  to 
obey  the  laws  of  our  country,  and  fol- 
low the  rules  of  public  policy  that  gov- 
ern the  best  interests  and  wellbeing  of 
the  nation  in  which  we  live.  It  is  our 
duty  to  be  just,  to  be  generous,  to  be 
upright  and  consistent  in  all  our  ways. 
Perhaps  this  is  enough  from  me  upon 
this  question.  I  believe  you  will  sus- 
tain your  Presidents  of  Stakes  and 
Bishops  by  seeing  to  it  that  the  district 
in  which  you  reside  fulfills  its  part, 
and  that  there  should  be  no  question  in 
the  minds  of  any  man  or  woman  but 
that  they  have  done  their  part  in  seek- 
ing to  sustain  the  good  names  of  the 
heroic  band  whose  hearts  were  in  ac- 
cord with  the  Spirit  of  God  and  whose 
guiding  and  directing  wish  was  the 
betterment  of  the  human  race  and  the 
salvation  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

There  is  another  little  item  upon 
which  I  wish  to  speak  to  you  for  a 
brief  time,  and  that  is  upon  the  ques- 
tion of  the  amusements  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  am  one  of  those  who  be- 
lieve that  legitimate  and  proper  amuse- 
ment should  always  be  provided  for  the 
young,  for  the  middle-aged  and  for  the 
aged  among  the  Saints.  I  endorse  the 
action  with  all  my  heart  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  in  permitting  to  be  utilized  the 
mimic  stage  as  a  means  of  education 
among  the  people.  I  endorse  with  all 
my  heart  the  continued  effort  of  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young  and  his  associ- 
ates in  seeking  to  put  within  the  reach 
of  all  classes  legitimate  and  proper 
amusements,  and  to  have  the  play 
house  under  proper  control.  I  rejoice 
in  the  establishment  of  proper  places 
where  the  young  and  the  aged  can  min- 
gle together  and  the  former  be  under 
the  restraining  influence  of  the  more 
mature.  But  I  see  that  there  is  a  ten- 
dency in  relation  to  amusements  that 
forbodes  evil  to  the  moral  wellbeing  of 
our  community,  and  it  is  based,  in  my 
judgment,  upon  the  action  of  the  older 
persons  in  our  communities  withdraw- 
ing themselves  from  association  with 
the  young.  This  should  not  be.  The 
young  should  have  their  amusements 
under  the  eye  of  the  more  mature. 
And  their  thoughtful  judgment  should 
be  exercised  to  restrain  them  from  the 
perpetration  of  evil. 

I  remember  that  among  the  very  lat- 
est days  of  the  life  of  President  Young 


he  was  found  with  us  in  the  Social 
Hall.  When  I  was  a  boy,  he  was  found 
with  us  in  the  Fourteenth  Ward  hall, 
in  the  Thirteenth  Ward  hall,  and  in 
the  various  halls  of  the  city,  as  much 
as  it  was  possible  for  him  to  be.  But 
I  discover  as  I  mingle  with  the  young 
and  enter  their  places  of  amusement, 
a  tendency  in  the  direction  of  neglect 
in  this  respect.  This  is  working  an  in- 
jury that  many  of  us  will  regret  later 
in  life,  if  we  do  not  guard  more  care- 
fully the  wellbeing  of  our  sons  and 
daughters  until  they  shall  reach  that 
period  of  life  when  they  shall  more 
wisely  consider  and  more  fully  weigh 
the  possibilities  of  temptation  and  evil 
that  lie  in  the  way  of  the  thoughtless 
and  imprudent.  I  trust  that  the  spirit 
to  guard  and  direct  our  sons  and 
daughters  in  wisdom  and  prudence  will 
characterize  the  lives  of  fathers  and 
mothers  and  the  presiding  authorities  . 
in  the  Church,  always  striving  to  main- 
tain that  degree  of  decorum  and  that 
consistency  and  prudence  that  should 
govern  the  lives  of  those  who  are  build- 
ing not  alone  for  the  present,  but  also 
for  the  future,  that  in  time  to  come 
their  children  may  stand  accepted  in 
the  presence  of  God. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truth  of 
the  law  of  God  directing  the  collection 
of  means  for  establishing  His  work. 
Possibly  no  man  has  been  so  extreme  in 
his  judgment  upon  this  matter  as  my- 
self, under  some  circumstances;  for  in 
one  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion  some  months 
ago,  I  presumed  to  say  to  the  authori- 
ties of  that  Stake  that  if  there  was  an 
officer  there  who  was  not  prepared  to 
accept  the  law  of  tithing,  so  far  as  I 
was  concerned  as  a  representative  of 
the  Presidency  of  this  Church,  I  was 
theije  to  accept  his  resignation.  I  be- 
lieve upon  this  question  that  if  there 
are  presiding  authorities  in  the  Church 
of  Christ  who  will  not  obey  that  law 
and  fulfill  its  obligations,  their  place  is 
among  the  ranks,  where  they  may  be 
taught  and  instructed  by  some  one  wil- 
ling to  fulfill  the  law — a  law  which 
opens  the  doorway  to  the  companion- 
ship of  the  just  and  the  good  in  time  to 
come. 

I  bear  my  witness  to  the  truth  of  this 
work,  to  the  truth  of  every  principle 
God  has  revealed,  and  to  the  truth  of 
that  law  which  He  has  established  by 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M  LYMAN 


33 


which  the  borders  of  Zion  are  to  be 
lengthened,  her  cords  strengthened,  her 
temples  completed,  and  her  Presiding 
authorities  to  have  the  means  to  fulfill 
the  mission  and  responsibility  placed 
upon  them  by  the  Divine  One.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang: 

"Captain  of  Israel's  host  and  guide." 
Benediction  by    Elder    Seymour  B. 
Young. 


SATURDAY  AFTERNOON. 
2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

"Glorious  things  are  sung  of  Zion, 
Enoch's  city  seen  of  old, 

Where  the  righteous,  being  perfect, 
Walked  with  God  in  streets  of  gold." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Louis  A.  Kelsch. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Glory  to  God  on  high; 
Let  heaven  and  earth  reply, 
Praise  ye  His  name." 

ELDER  P.  M.  LYMAN. 

Nature  of  the  Law  of  Tithing— Its  Requiiememts 
have  been  Widely  Ignored— Effects  of  Obedi- 
ence to  It — Forgiveness  comes  Through  Re- 
pentance—Offerings of  the  Saints  —  The  Obli- 
gation of  Obedience  —  That  which  is  Temporal 
and  Spiritual  Inseparable— How  Eternal  In- 
heritances are  Obtained. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  pray  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  with  us 
this  afternoon,  as  it  has  been  so  abund- 
antly with  our  brethren,  and  that  we 
may  have  the  liberty  of  that  Spirit  in 
speaking  and  in  listening,  and  profit  by 
what  the  Lord  may  please  to  give  us. 
Time  is  very  precious,  and  this  is  a 
very  large  congregation,  and  without 
the  help  of  the  Lord,  it  is  not  possible 
for  an  Elder  to  edify  this  intelligent 
audience. 

We  have  been  listening  to  the  in- 
struction of  President  Snow  and  his 
brethren  in  the  various  Stakes  of  Zion, 
particularly  upon  the  law  of  tithing, 
in  such  a  way,  possibly,  as  it  has 
not  been  brought  before  the  people  in 
the  past.  There  is  a  time  for  all  things, 
and  it  appears  as  though  the  time  has 
come  when  the  Latter-day  Saints- 
should  give  particular  attention  to  this 
important  law.  The  condition  of  the 
people  individually,  as  well  as  the  con- 
dition of  the  Church,  has  made  it  neces- 
sary for  the  Lord  to  announce  through 


His  servants  that  we  must  put  our- 
selves right  with  regard  to  this  prin- 
ciple. Like  all  the  other  principles  of 
the  Gospel,  it  is  vital  and  very  im- 
portant, and  it  is  not  alone  that  the 
foundations  of  Zion  may  be  laid  and 
the  obligations  of  the  Church  be  met, 
as  they  needed  to  be  met  in  1838,  when 
the  Lord  was  besought  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  to  know  how  much  was  neces- 
sary of  the  property  of  the  people  for  a 
tithing.  It  is  not  an  unusual  thing  for 
the  Prophet  to  approach  the  Lord  in 
times  of  necessity  and  when  it  appears 
plain  to  the  mind  of  the  Prophet  that 
something  needs  to  be  done.  We  could 
not  tell  without  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  what  resources  there  were  for  the 
Church  to  rely  upon,  but  how  simple 
and  Dlain  it  is  when  the  Lord  an- 
nounces that  if  Israel  will  bring  in  all 
their  tithes  and  offerings,  that  there 
may  be  meat  in  the  storehouse  of  the 
Lord,  He  will  open  the  windows  of 
Heaven  and  pour  out  a  blessing  that 
we  shall  hardly  be  able  to  contain. 
The  necessities  of  the  people  today  in 
these  valleys,  the  things  that  we  are 
suffering,  the  early  frosts  that  have 
destroyed  quite  a  percentage  of  the 
crops  of  the  people  in  the  higher  val- 
leys, the  loss  in  the  fruit  crop,  all  ad- 
monish us  that  we  need  a  blessing  from 
the  Lord. 

It  has  been  discovered,  as  the  records 
of  the  Church  abundantly  show,  that 
quite  a  percentage  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  entirely  ignored  this  law 
of  tithing.  Twenty-five  per  cent  have 
neglected  it  altogether.  What  right 
have  we  in  the  Church  if  we  are  not 
willing  to  obey  the  laws  of  the  Church? 
As  well  might  we  think  of  being  mem- 
bers in  good  standing  and  fellowship, 
if  we  had  failed  to  receive  baptism  of 
the  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  or  if  we 
refused  to  gather  together  or  to  preach 
the  Gospel.  Without  the  law  of  tithing, 
as  we  heard  from  the  President  this 
morning,  these  temples  could  not  have 
been  built.  What  has  been  done  to- 
wards the  laying  of  the  foundations  of 
Zion  could  not  have  been  accomplished 
without  the  revenue  law  of  the  Church. 
And  it  is  a  most  reasonable  law.  I 
believe  that  I  have  discovered,  as  well 
as  my  brethren,  why  the  Lord  has  de- 
termined that  one-tenth  of  our  interest 
annually  should  be  required  for  a  tith- 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing.  I  understand  it  to  be  for  the  rea- 
son that  that  amount  is  just  exactly 
what  is  necessary  to  accomplish  the 
purposes  of  the  Lord.  Less  than  that 
is  insufficient.  Tithing-  has  been  known 
among  the  people  of  Israel  from  the 
early  ages.  It  has  been  proven  not  only 
among  the  people  that  have  occupied 
this  earth,  but  among  people  who  have 
occupied  other  earths  than  this.  It  is 
a  law  that  has  been  demonstrated  in 
the  experience  of  the  children  of  God 
through  all  past  ages,  and  it  is  under- 
stood that  one-tenth  is  just  the  amount 
necessary  to  meet  the  requirements  of 
the  Lord.  How  much  allowance  the 
Lord  has  made,  in  His  reckoning,  for 
those  who,  being  without  faith,  will  be 
negligent  and  will  not  have  the 
strength  and  power  of  character  to  en- 
dure, I  am  not  able  to  say.  But  He 
has  no  doubt  established  it  as  the  very 
amount  that  is  absolutely  necessary  for 
the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  It  is  also 
just  exactly  the  amount  that  is  neces- 
sary to  try  the  souls  of  the  children  of 
men  and  to  prove  them.  Men  who  can 
observe  that  law  and  live  it  properly 
will  be  prepared  to  graduate  unto  a 
higher  plane,  which  they  must  do  be- 
fore the  redemption  of  Zion.  Before  we 
enter  upon  the  law  of  consecration, 
which  is  the  celestial  law  of  God  in 
finance,  it  is  necessary  that  we  should 
take  the  training  that  we  are  now  hav- 
ing under  the  law  of  tithing. 

Tou  may  be  certain,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  any  person  who  is  not 
able  to  observe  this  law  faithfully  and 
well  will  never,  worlds  without  end, 
be  able  to  observe  the  law  of  consecra- 
tion. The  law  of  tithing  is  a  stepping 
stone,  and  it  is  a  law  that  will  abide 
forever,  because  a  great  majority  pos- 
sibly of  the  children  of  God  will  not  be 
able  to  reach  the  higher  law. 

Since  President  Snow  has  been  talk- 
ing so  plainly  upon  this  subject,  there 
have  been  a  class  of  people  who  have 
undertaken  to  take  advantage  of  his 
promise  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in 
regard  to  this  law,  that  if  for  the  fu- 
ture they  would  observe  this  law  faith- 
fully the  past  should  be  forgiven. 
There  have  been  men  guilty  of  breaches 
of  the  laws  of  morality  and  honesty 
who  have  claimed  that  if  they  now  pay 
their  tithing  all  their  sins  will  be  for- 


given them.  President  Snow  never  an- 
nounced any  such  doctrine  as  that.  He 
could  not  announce  such  a  doctrine  as 
that.  But  the  Lord  is  perfectly  able  to 
say  to  us  that  if  we  will  observe  this 
law  of  finance,  which  we  have  been 
under  now  for  over  sixty  years,  for 
the  future  and  keep  this  commandment 
our  past  negligence  of  the  law  of  tith- 
ing will  be  forgiven.  He  is  competent 
also  to  say  that  if  we  will  repent  of  our 
sins  and  serve  God  with  all  our  hearts 
for  the  future,  our  sins  will  be  for- 
given us;  but  not  otherwise.  The  for- 
giveness of  sins  is  predicated  upon 
faith  in  God,  repentance  and  reforma- 
tion and  baptism.  Sins  are  not  forgiven 
through  the  payment  of  tithing,  nor 
through  the  partaking  of  the  sacra- 
ment, nor  observing  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, or  prayer.  There  are  blessings  at- 
tached to  each  of  these  important  re- 
quirements of  the  Gospel;  but  if  a  man 
would  have  his  sins  forgiven,  and  be  al- 
lowed to  enter  into  the  Church,  he  must 
have  faith  in  God,  and  in  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  he  must 
repent  of  all  his  sins,  turn  unto  the 
Lord  with  full  purpose  of  heart  and  sin 
no  more.  Then  God  will  forgive  him 
and  redeem  him  from  his  sins;  but  not 
by  paying  tithing.  By  the  payment  of 
tithing  the  foundations  of  Zion  are  laid, 
and  up  to  the  present  time  our  tithing 
has  been  paid  to  accomplish  what  we 
now  see  done  in  a  temporal  way.  The 
offerings  also  have  been  generous 
enough  to  perform  a  great  work,  for 
we  have  paid  offerings  as  well  as  tith- 
ing. We  have  made  offerings  of  our 
time,  in  preaching  the  Gospel  to  the 
world  without  purse  or  scrip.  We  have 
made  offerings  for  the  building  of  tem- 
ples, for  the  erection  of  meeting  houses 
and  for  other  public  works  that  have 
been  accomplished  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  By  our  offerings  the  poor 
have  been  reasonably  cared  for,  and  if 
our  offerings  were  as  generous  as  they 
ought  to  be  no  poor  person  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints  would  ever  have  to 
cry  for  relief  without  receiving  it  freely. 
But  we  want  our  names  recorded  in  the 
Lamb's  Book  of  Life,  and  it  is  not  done 
by  the  observance  of  a*—  one  principle 
alone,  but  to  every  principle  there  are 
special  blessings  promised.  There  are, 
in  the  records  of  the  Church  today,  the 


ELDER  FRAIS/CIS  M.  LYMAN 


names  of  every  man,  woman  and  child 
who  has  given  of  their  means  for  tith- 
ing. Those  records  can  be  scanned  and 
our  faith  and  works  can  be  understood 
by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church.  And 
we  ought  to  be  known;  we  want  to  be 
known.  We  want  to  be  recognized,  not 
alone  as  having  a  name  among  the  peo- 
ple, but  as  being  faithful,  devoted,  hum- 
ble and  obedient. 

Obedience  is  the  first  law  of  God.  It  is 
most  important  that  we  should  be 
obedient  to  the  word  and  will  of  the 
Lord.  It  was  that  which  entitled  the 
Son  of  God  to  be  anointed  above  His 
brethren;  for  He  was  in  all  things  most 
perfect  and  obedient.  He  put  not  forth 
His  own  will,  but  He  submitted  to  the 
will  of  the  Father  in  all  things,  even 
to  the  laying  down  of  His  life,  in  order 
that  He  might  be  indeed  the  Son  of  God, 
the  Savior  of  the  world.  He  has  earned 
that  important  position,  and  through 
the  shedding  of  His  blood  and  His 
atonement  we  are  redeemed.  By  hu- 
mility and  faith  and  repentance  we  ob- 
tain the  forgiveness  of  our  sins,  and 
are  entitled  to  have  our  names  upon  the 
records  of  the  Church  as  members  of 
the  Church.  But  that  fact  does  not 
demonstrate  particularly  any  very  im- 
portant work  that  we  have  accomplish- 
ed in  sustaining  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
By  it  we  are  entitled  to  enter  in,  but 
after  we  have  been  recorded  members 
of  the  Church  we  must  then  work  out 
our  salvation  and  earn  eternal  life,  for 
it  is  not  obtained  without  earning  it. 

The  Lord  is  not  going  to  give  us  every- 
thing without  our  doing  something.  He 
requires  of  us  a  broken  heart,  a  con- 
trite spirit,  an  obedience  to  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  ±-fOrd.  And  this  is  rea- 
sonable. How  generous  the  Lord  is  to 
us  when  He  declares  through  His  pro- 
phet, "if  from  this  time  forth  you  will 
do  my  will  with  regard  to  the  law  of 
tithing,  the  past  shall  be  blotted  out." 
It  is  not  only  generous,  but  it  is  rea- 
sonable and  philosophical.  The  object 
of  the  Lord  is  the  salvation  of  the  peo- 
ple, and  if  He  should  come  out  with  a 
revelation  today,  saying  that  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  must  square  up  all  their 
back  tithing,  do  you  think  they  could 
do  it?  No.  It  could  not  be  done,  any 
more  than  a  man  could  gather  up  the 
sins  he  has  committed  and  blot  them 


out.    They  are  committed,  and  we  can- 
not change  the  fact  that  they  are  com 
mitted.    We  may  be  forgiven,  we  may 
be  redeemed,  they  may  be  finally  blot- 
ted out,  if  our  repentance  is  genuine  and 
we  do  not  return  to  our  sins  again; 
but  it  is  done  through  the  atoning  blood 
of  the  Lord  Jesus.    No  man  can  for- 
give his  own  sins,  no  man  can  redeem 
himself  from  his  sins.   Neither  can  any 
man  pay  his  back  tithing,  if  he  has 
been  a  member  of  this  Church  forty 
or  fifty  years  and  been  paying  only  part 
of  his  tithing  all  that  time,  and  pos- 
sibly paying  none  at  all.    The  Lord 
would  not  require  such  a  thing,  be- 
cause He  knows  the  Latter-day  Saints 
could  not  do  it.   Why,  it  is  all  they  can 
do  to  pay  their  tithing  today.  Suffi- 
cient for  the  day  is  the  tithing  thereof; 
sufficient  for  the  day  are  the  offerings 
thereof;  sufficient  for  the  day  are  the 
labors  thereof;  sufficient  for  the  day  is 
the  repentance  and    reformation  re 
quired  of  men.    They  cannot  do  two 
days  in  one.    Yesterday  has  gone  for 
ever.    We  cannot  recall  it,  any  more 
than  we  can  bring  to  us  tomorrow;  to- 
morrow will  always  be  ahead  of  us. 
Today  is  the  day  of  salvation,  and  the 
day  in  which  all  our  labors  must  bt- 
performed.    Therefore  we  want  to  re- 
member that  He  hath    forgiven  the 
past,  thank  the  Lord.    But  do  not  let 
you  or  I  regret  if  we  have  been  among 
that  number  who  have  paid  their  tith- 
ing reasonably  well,  and  feel  sorry  that 
we  did  not  keep  our  tithing  back  so 
that  we  could  be  forgiven.    For  there 
is  an  advantage,  there  is  a  blessing  and 
an  enlargement  of  the  soul  that  comes  to 
the  man  who  obeys  the  word  and  will 
of  the  Lord.    It  is  better  that  we  have 
done  God's  will  than  that  we  should 
have  need  to  be  forgiven  for  neglect- 
ing it.    It  is  better  not  to  have  been  a 
sinner.     It  is  better    that    our  sins 
should  be  very  light,  and  not  of  a  seri- 
ous nature  than  that  they  should  be 
deadly  sins.   It  is  better  that  we  should 
live  without  sin,  and  be  like  the  Son 
of  God.    It  is  not  necessary  that  we 
should  be  sinners.    God  has  designed 
that  we  should  not  be  sinners,  but  that 
we  should  live  lives    of    purity  and 
righteousness  and  walk  in  obedience  to 
His  will,  as  the  Savior  did.    The  Lord 
desires,    just    as    you     desire,  every 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


one  of  your  children  to  be  obedient, 
honest  and  pure.  You  do  not  want 
them  defiled  and  dishonest,  in  order 
that  you  may  forgive  them.  Therefore 
I  say  to  my  brethren  and  sisters  who 
have  paid  their  tithing  and  have  little 
or  nothing  to  be  forgiven  for  in  that 
respect,  thank  the  Lord,  and  only  wish 
that  there  was  nothing  that  you  had 
need  to  be  forgiven  for,  and  that  you 
had  done  the  will  of  the  Lord  most  per- 
fectly. 

A  great  many  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  have  done  very  well.  Thank  the 
Lord  for  what  has  been  accomplished 
since  last  May;  thank  the  Lord  that 
the  people  have  listened,  and  that  you 
have  had  testimonies  in  your  hearts, 
as  well  as  President  Snow.  You  are 
entitled  to  know  for  yourselves.  Every 
one  of  these  Apostles  knows  that  Presi- 
dent Snow's  testimony  is  from  the  Lord, 
for  He  has  told  us.  We  comprehend  It 
most  thoroughly;  so  does  every  Latter- 
day  Saint  who  has  done  the  will  of  the 
Lord.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  who  has 
now  detided  and  determined  to  do  the 
will  of  the  Lord  also  knows  it.  Those 
who  do  the  will  of  the  Lord  in  the  fu- 
ture shall  also  know  that  God  has 
spoken  through  President  Snow.  It  is 
his  particular  mission  and  ministry  to 
set  right  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  re- 
gard to  this  particular  law — not  to  neg- 
lect any  other  and  not  to  say  that 
men's  sins  will  be  forgiven  them  if 
they  pay  their  tithing.  That  is  a  mis- 
take, and  only  transgressors  have  con- 
cluded that  Bishops  and  the  authorities 
of  the  Church  have  no  right  to  handle 
them  now  for  their  transgressions,  be- 
cause President  Snow  has  said  that 
the  past  should  be  forgiven.  He  has 
only  said  that  the  past  should  be  for- 
given, so  far  as  the  payment  of  tith- 
ing was  concerned.  Thank  the  Lord 
that  we  may  be  forgiven  for  that. 

Do-  you  not  remember  when  the  Salt 
Lake  Temple  was  dedicated  in  1893,  how 
everybody  was  allowed  to  go  in  there, 
transgressors  and'  all,  because  their 
names  were  upon  the  record  and  they 
had  not  been  dealt  with?  The  Prophet 
Wilford  "Woodruff  announced  then  that 
the  sins  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  were 
forgiven  them;  but  who  are  Latter- 
day  Saints?  Who  are  the  men  and  wo- 
men to  whom  President  Woodruff  re- 
ferred?    Any  man  who  had  not  re- 


pented? No.  Any  man  who  had  not 
made  satisfaction?  No.  He  was  only 
announcing  that  the  work  you  and  I 
are  engaged  in  is  genuine,  and  that  in 
our  repentance  and  reformation  there 
was  vitality  and  virtue,  and  that  we 
were  forgiven  so  far  as  we  had  com- 
plied with  these  laws.  He  never  meant 
that  a  man  who  was  an  adulterer,  or 
horse  thief,  was  to  be  forgiven  because 
he  went  into  that  Temple,  without  hav- 
ing made  satisfaction  or  having  re- 
pented. President  Woodruff  could  not 
say  that;  no  ProDhet  could  say  it. 
The  Father  could  not  say  it,  only  upon 
the  principles  of  repentance,  reforma- 
tion and  righteousness — not  a  repent- 
ance for  a  little  season,  but  to  obtain 
forgiveness  for  our  sins  we  must  sin  no 
more.  We  must  not  turn  like  the  dog 
to  his  vomit  or  the  sow  to  her  wallow- 
ing in  the  mire,  but  we  must  reform 
and  then  labor  as  the  Lord  directs, 
then  He  will  gladly  forgive  us,  just  as 
He  will  now  cancel  our  obligations  in 
regard  to  tithing,  if  for  the  future  we 
will  do  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Let  our  names  be  recorded  upon  the 
book  of  the  law  of  the  Lord,  where 
they  can  be  seen  and  known,  and  let 
the  conscience  of  every  man,  woman 
and  child  be  clear  and  free.  Why, 
when  we  look  over  the  records  now,  we 
find  men  in  high  positions  in  the 
Church  who  have  been  very  careless 
and  censurable  in  regard  to  the  law  of 
tithing.  No  doubt  many  have  entered 
into  the  Temples  of  the  Lord  who  have 
never  done  a  single  thing  to  help  erect 
or  maintain  them.  We  want  to  repent 
of  these  things.  We  need  not  be  afraid 
in  regard  to  the  Church;  we  have  no 
need  to  be  disturbed  or  worried  in  re- 
gard to  the  obligations  of  the  Church. 
What  should  disturb  us  is  our  individ- 
ual obligations  to  the  Lord  and  to  one 
another.  Deal  honestly  and  squarely 
with  the  Lord,  and  you  will  very  readi- 
ly be  able  to  deal  honestly  and  squarely 
with  your  brethren.  Let  us  meet  our 
obligations  to  the  Lord,  for  to  Him  we 
owe  life  and  everything  we  possess.  He 
has  entrusted  us  with  it  as  stewards, 
and  we  want  to  make  good  our  stew- 
ardship. The  talents  that  He  has  en- 
trusted us  with  let  us  turn  them  ovei 
and  double  them.  Do  not  bury  them, 
nor  hide  them  up,  but  invest  them  so 
that  they  will  increase.    The  Lord  re- 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN 


37 


quires  this  of  us.  The  man  who  pays 
his  tithing  by  the  thousands  or  by  the 
hundreds  is  not  the  only  one  that  is 
acceptable  to  the  Lord.  The  one  who 
pays  his  fives,  his  tens,  or  his  fifties — 
the  tithing  on  whatever  the  Lord  blesses 
him  with — is  acceptable  to  the  Lord  al- 
so. The  Lord  does  not  expect  a  man 
with  one  talent  to  turn  over  ten.  If 
he  returned  two  he  is  doing  wonder- 
fully well.  He  does  not  expect  a  man 
with  two  talents  to  turn  over  ten,  but 
four.  He  expects  men  to  employ  their 
talents  and  to  make  good  use  of  them. 
He  does  not  look  with  favor  upon  a 
slothful  servant,  because  it  is  wicked 
to  be  slothful  and  idle.  We  want  to 
be  Industrious  and  persevering  and 
see  how  much  we  can  do  in  this  life 
with  the  talents  that  God  has  intrust- 
ed us  with;  then  we  will  be  acceptable 
to  Him.  The  widow's  mite,  thank  the 
Lord,  is  as  large  as  the  millionaire's 
great  amount  of  means  that  he  may 
turn  over:  for  out  of  her  little  she 
gives  whatever  she  possesses  in  order 
to  assist  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Let  the  Latter-day  Saints  remember 
that  we  have  undertaken  to  strive  for 
the  celestial  kingdom.  We  desire  an 
inheritance  on  this  earth  when  it  is 
celestialized.  We  expect  an  inheritance 
in  Zion,  but  in  order  that  we  may  have 
this  inheritance,  we  are  not  only  re- 
quired to  come  into  the  Church  by  bap- 
tism and  confirmation  and  to  receive 
our  ordinations  and  blessings,  but  we 
are  expected  to  be  a  prayerful  people, 
a  people  who  will  observe  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  who  will  live  pure  lives  and 
keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
We  are  expected  to  bear  the  burdens 
and  responsibilities  of  the  kingdom, 
temporal  as  well  as  spiritual.  We  are 
in  a  temporal  world,  and  this  is  a 
church  of  material  things  as  well  as 
spiritual  things.  We  cannot  divide  the 
temporal  from  the  spiritual,  the  body 
from  the  spirit  and  stay  here.  They 
go  unitedly,  hand  in  hand,  and  will  do 
throughout  mortality,  and  then 
throughout  all  the  ages  of  eternity. 
Men  are  not  perfect  without  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life.  They  cannot 
meet  the  design  of  God  without  accom- 
plishing what  the  Lord  has  laid  before 
us.  This  is  the  Lord's  work.  It  is 
not  the  work  of  our  brethren  who  have 
passed  away.   They  have  finished  their 


work  here.  They  have  gone  to  their 
reward,  having  earned  eternal  life.  We 
remain,  and  we  are  to  prove  our  faith- 
fulness and  devotion  and  our  endurance 
in  the  principles  of  righteousness.  The 
Lord  will  sustain  us;  this  work  will 
continue;  and  we  will  gain  in  strength 
and  numbers  all  the  time.  We  are 
spreading  abroad  and  becoming  more 
numerous  in  every  ward,  in  every 
stake,  and  in  every  nation  where  we 
live.  The  Lord  is  working  with  us, 
and  is  handling  the  nations.  He  is 
handling  this  nation  and  directing  it 
in  its  operations  to  extend  liberty 
among  the  people  of  the  world.  The 
Gospel  will  be  in  the  track  of  religious 
liberty,  and  will  be  carried  to  every 
people. 

I  desire  to  read  the  7th  verse  in  the 
85th  Section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  The  preceding  verses  speak 
in  relation  to  the  duty  of  the  Lord's 
clerk  in  Zion.  At  present  the  Lord  has 
clerks  in  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion  and  in 
all  the  Wards  in  Zion  and  the  history 
of  our  faith  and  works  is  being  kept. 
It  is  important  that  these  records 
should  be  kept  and  correctly  kept.  A 
singular  thing  that  I  have  noticed  here 
(perhaps  you  have  noticed  it  as  well) 
is  that  it  is  not  only  necessary  that  our 
names  should  be  found  of  record,  but 
it  is  necessary  that  our  fathers'  names 
should  also  be  found  of  record,  as  well 
as  the  names  of  our  children.  It  seems 
that  when  the  inheritances  in  Zion  are 
divided  out,  those  whose  names  are 
recorded  with  the  names  of  their  fath- 
ers and  of  their  children— three  genera- 
tions—  are  to  be  entitled  to  inheritances 
in  Zion: 

'And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  I, 
the  Lord  God,  will  send  one  mighty 
and  strong,  holding  the  sceptre  of  pow- 
er in  his  hand,  clothed  with  light  for  a 
covering,  whose  mouth  shall  utter 
words,  eternal  words;  while  his  bowels 
shall  be  a  fountain  of  truth,  to  set  in 
order  the  house  of  God,  and  to  ar- 
range by  lot  the  inheritances  of  the 
Saints,  whose  names  are  found,  and  the 
names  of  their  fathers,  and  of  their 
children,  enrolled  in  the  book  of  the 
law  of  God." 

I  have  felt  it  important,  not  only 
that  I  should  be  faithful,  but  that  my 
children  should  be  faithful,  and  also 
my  progenitors,  as  an  evidence  that 
there  is  stability,  virtue  and  integrity 
in  that  line  of  blood;   that  there  is 


38 


GEAERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fidelity  and  faithfulness  at  least  in 
three  generations,  who  shall  he  found 
recorded  in  the  book  of  the  law  of  God. 
I  am  anxious  for  my  kindred  and  my 
posterity.  I  am  not  satisfied  to  be 
alone.  I  want  my  family,  my  kindred 
and  my  friends  with  me;  hence  I  de- 
sire to  be  exemplary  and  to  use  my  in- 
fluence with  them,  that  they  also  may 
have  a  worthy  record,  and  not  be  cast 
out  for  apostasy  or  any  other  reason, 
but  that  together  the  three  generations 
may  be  found  recorded  and  be  entitled 
to  an  inheritance  in  Zion.  If,  how- 
ever, our  names  are  not  found  recorded 
in  the  book  of  the  law  of  God,  we  shall 
not  be  entitled  to  an  inheritance  in 
Zion.  We  want  an  inheritance  on  this 
earth.  We  want  a  part  of  the  earth  for 
our  celestial  home  and  we  want  to  earn 
it.  We  cannot  get  it  otherwise.  As 
the  President  said  today,  Zion  cannot 
be  redeemed  but  by  purchase.  Let  me 
say  to  you  that  your  redemption  and 
mine  cometh  only  by  purchase.  We 
must  earn  what  we  expect  to  enjoy. 
We  must  redeem  our  part  of  Zion,  and 
as  the  whole  people  we  must  redeem  the 
land  of  Zion.  We  are  promised  an 
eternal  inheritance  in  the  land  of  Zion, 
but  we  cannot  get  it  by  any  one  law 
alone.  We  cannot  get  it  by  tithing 
alone.  A  man  cannot  say  that  he  has 
paid  his  tithing  generously  and  freely, 
and  now  he  has  liberty  to  do  just  as  he 
pleases.  He  must  not  only  keep  the 
law  of  tithing  properly,  but  he  must 
also  keep  his  repentance  genuine  and 
eternal.  His  devotion  and  faithfulness 
to  the  Lord  in  every  other  respect  must 
be  maintained  in  addition  to  the  pay- 
ment of  tithing.  We  have  but  a  little 
time  to  live  on  this  earth.  Why  can 
we  not  endure  just  for  a  few  fleeting 
years,  that  will  be  less  than  a  day  to 
us  hereafter?  Fifty,  seventy,  eighty, 
or  a  hundred  years,  we  will  look  upon 
as  but  a  span  when  we  shall  have 
entered  into  eternity,  the  depth  and 
height  of  which  cannot  be  known  in 
mortality.  The  suffering  and  the  little 
difficulties  and  evil  which  beset  us  in 
this  life,  and  which  try  our  very  souls, 
will  be  counted  as  naught  hereafter. 
We  will  only  wonder  that  we  were  ever 
shaken  or  disturbed  at  all  by  the  little 
things  that  afflicted  us. 
Brethren  and  sisters,  you  have  our 


testimony  in  regard  to  this  principle. 
We  know  that  it  is  important.  It  is  not 
a  new  thing  that  the  Lord  should  be 
robbed  in  His  tithes  and  His  offerings. 
It  is  not  a  new  thing  that  the  word 
of  the  Lord  should  come  through  a 
Prophet.  It  came  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  when  the  law  of  tithing  was 
revealed.  It  came  through  him  when 
the  law  of  consecration  was  revealed 
and  on  a  hundred  other  occasions. 
Many  revelations  the  Lord  gave 
through  him,  and  they  have  been  writ- 
ten. Hundreds  of  times  has  the  word 
of  the  Lord  been  given  through  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  the  Prophet  and 
lion  of  the  Lord,  and  through  Presi- 
dent John  Taylor  and  through  Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff.  There  is  noth- 
ing that  the  Lord  requires  of  His  peo- 
ple that  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  will 
hesitate  to  present  when  it  is  necessary. 
He  is  the  chief  man  upon  the  towers 
of  Zion,  to  warn  the  people,  and  when 
a  warning  comes  there  is  a  reason  for 
it;  there  are  conditions  just  confront- 
ing us  that  we  know  not  of,  and  per- 
haps they  are  not  told  to  us.  We  can- 
not tell  you  what  is  coming  just  now, 
but  there  are  important  conditions  just 
in  front  of  us  as  the  people  of  God, 
and  it  is  necessary  that  the  Prophet 
should  take  the  very  stand  that  he  has 
in  regard  to  this  law,  for  our  safety, 
for  the  redemption  of  Zion,  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  purposes  of  God 
in  the  last  days.  Thank  the  Lord  that 
we  have  a  prophet;  that  we  can  ap- 
proach him  and  learn  what  his  mind 
and  will  is  and  receive  it  as  we  have 
received  it  in  all  plainness.  And  when 
the  Lord  sDeaks  to  His  servant  the 
Prophet,  He  speaks  to  all  the  Prophets. 
President  Snow  is  not  alone,  but  he  is 
surrounded  by  Prophets  of  the  Lord, 
and  they  have  the  very  same  testimony 
abiding  in  their  souls.  They  know  that 
this  is  God's  work,  and  they  have  not 
been  mistaken.  They  have  been  lead- 
ing the  people  all  the  time,  and  the 
Lord  has  directed  them.  He  will  do  so 
to  the  end.  Thank  the  Lord  that  we 
have  Prophets;  thank  the  Lord  that 
this  congregation  is  full  of  men  of 
prophecy  and  of  revelation.  And  they 
are  in  the  missions  abroad,  as  well  as 
at  home.  The  world  is  enlivened  today 
with  men  of  inspiration    from  God. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


39 


They  speak  revelation.  They  give  forth 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  they  bear  testi- 
mony, strong  and  powerful,  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth.  In  this  way  the 
purposes  of  God  are  progressing  and 
advancing,  and  His  work  will  be  ac- 
complished. No  power  on  earth  can- 
stay  it,  for  it  is  God's  work.  Man  has 
not  originated  it.  It  is  the  work  of 
our  Eternal  Father  who  dwells  in  the 
Heavens.  There  is  power  and  virtue 
in  it  for  the  salvation  of  men,  and  it 
is  true  and  vital. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. Let  us  be  faithful  and  endure 
but  for  a  little  season,  and  our  day  of 
rest  and  peace  and  welcome  into  the 
presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  will 
be  sure.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Objects  of  the  Law  of  Tithing — The  same  Law  in 
Ancient  Times — Duty  of  the  Leaders  of  the 
Chuivh  in  Relation  to  it — Disastrous  Effects  of 
Neglect  and  Beneficent  Results  of  Obedience. 

I  desire  sincerely  that  my  brethren 
and  sisters  will  exert  their  faith  in  my 
behalf,  that  I  may  be  able  to  speak 
words  of  advice,  of  counsel  and  of 
warning,  as  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
direct.  We  have  had  much  valuable 
instruction  in  relation  to  our  duties  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  not  only  concerning 
the  law  of  tithing,  but  also  in  reference 
to  other  things,  which  are  as  important 
in  their  place  as  the  law  of  tithing. 
There  is  nothing,  however,  of  greater 
importance  to  the  welfare  of  the  Church 
at  present  than  the  consideration  of 
this  law,  by  which  means  will  be  placed 
In  the  storehouse  of  the  Lord,  to  meet 
the  necessities  of  the  people.  My  eye 
fell  upon  a  passage  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, which  speaks  of  a  circumstance 
relative  to  the  payment  of  tithing.  I  will 
refer  to  it  by  and  by.  It  is  one  of  the 
first  that  we  have  any  record  of  in  an- 
cient days.  I  have  no  doubt  that  the 
law  of  tithing  has  always  existed  when 
the  Lord  had  a  people  on  the  earth. 
The  purpose  of  the  law  of  tithing  is 
similar  to  that  of  the  law  of  revenue 
which  is  enacted  by  every  State,  every 
county  and  every  municipality  in  the 
world,  I  suppose.  There  is  no  such 
thing  as  an  organization  of  men  for  any 
purpose  of  importance,  without  pro- 
visions for  carrying  out  its  designs. 
The  law  of  tithing  is  the  law  of  revenue 


for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  Without  it  it  would  be 
impossible  to  carry  on  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord.  I  want  to  read  to  you  one  of 
the  objects  for  which  the  law  of  tithing 
is  given.  It  is  recorded  in  Section  83 
of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 
The  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
at  Independence,  Jackson  County,  Mis- 
souri, April  30,  1832: 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord,  in  addi- 
tion to  the  laws  of  the  Church  concern- 
ing women  and  children,  those  who  be- 
long to  the  Church,  who  have  lost  their 
husbands  or  fathers. 

"Women  have  claim  upon  their  hus- 
bands for  their  maintenance  until  their 
husbands  are  taken,  and  if  they  are  not 
found  transgressors  they  shall  have  fel- 
lowship in  the  Church; 

'And  if  they  are  not  faithful, theyshall 
not  have  fellowship  in  the  Church;  yet 
they  may  remain  upon  their  inheritan- 
ces according  to  the  laws  of  the  land. 

"All  children  have  claim  upon  their 
parents  for  their  maintenance  until 
they  are  of  age. 

'And  after  that  they  have  claim  upon 
the  Church,  or  in  other  words  upon  the 
Lord's  storehouse,  if  their  parents  have 
not  wherewith  to  give  them  inheri- 
tances. 

"And  the  storehouse  shall  be  kept  by 
the  consecrations  of  the  Church,  and 
widows  and  orphans  shall  be  provided 
for,  as  also  the  poor.  Amen." 

Here  is  one  of  the  great  purposes  for 
which  the  law  of  tithing  is  instituted 
in  the  Church.  It  is  intended  that  the 
widows  shall  be  looked  after  when  they 
are  in  need,  and  that  the  fatherless  and 
the  orphans  shall  be  provided  for  from 
the  funds  of  the  Church;  that  they  shall 
be  clothed  and  fed,  and  shall  have  op- 
portunity for  education,  the  same  as 
other  children  who  have  parents  to  look 
after  them.  When  a  child  is  father- 
less and  motherless  the  Church  becomes 
the  parent  of  that  child,  and  it  is  obli- 
gatory upon  the  Church  to  take  care  of 
it,  and  to  see  that  it  has  opportunities 
equal  with  the  other  children  in  the 
Church.  This  is  a  great  responsibility. 
Have  we  ever  seen  the  day  since  the 
Church  was  organized  when  we  could 
carry  out  this  purpose  of  the  Lord  fully, 
and  to  our  heart's  content?  We  have 
not!  because  we  never  have  had  the 
means  to  do  it  with.  But  if  men  will 
obey  the  laws  of  God  so  that  there  shall 
be  abundance  in  the  storehouse  of  the 
Lord,  we  will  have  wherewith  to  feed 
and  clothe  the  poor  and  the  orphan  and 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  look  after  those  who  are  in  need  in 
the  Church.  Our  brethren  will  not  have 
to  join  these  secret  associations  that 
are  formed  in  the  world,  for  the  purpose 
of  leaving-  a  few  thousand  dollars  to 
their  widows  when  they  die.  If  we  will 
pay  our  tithes  and  our  offerings  we  will 
lay  up  for  ourselves  treasure  in  the 
storehouse  of  God,  by  whicn  our  wid- 
ows and  our  children  will  be  cared  for 
after  we  are  dead,  and  far  better  than 
they  will  be  by  these  associations  that 
offer  premiums  on  death.  I  mention 
this  simply  incidentally.  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  good  enough  for  me  and  my  family, 
and  I  have  no  time  or  means  to  associ- 
ate myself  with  organizations  that  are 
not  of  this  Church  and  which  have  sim- 
ply for  their  object  the  laying  up  of 
something  for  my  wife  to  have  after  I 
am  dead.  I  cannot  afford  to  do  it,  for 
this  reason:  the  Lord  has  seen  fit  to 
give  me  from  day  to  day  just  sufficient 
for  my  needs,  and  if  I  were  to  join  these 
associations  for  the  purpose  of  looking 
after  the  future  of  my  family,  I  would 
be  compelled  to  neglect  paying  my 
tithing,  and  present  duties,  because  I 
would  not  have  means  enough  to  pay  my 
tithing  and  my  dues  for  these  associa- 
tions. We  have  known  members  of  the 
Church,  who  when  they  were  asked 
why  they  did  not  pay  their  tithing,  con- 
fessed that  they  were  associated  with 
organizations  of  one  kind  and  an- 
other, wherein  they  were  compelled 
to  pay  weekly  or  monthly  certain 
sums  of  money;  they  had  been 
associated  with  these  institutions 
for  a  number  of  years  and  had 
put  quite  a  lot  of  money  in  them,  and 
now  if  they  did  not  continue  to  pay 
their  dues  they  would  lose  all  they  had 
put  in,  then  in  case  of  death  their  fami- 
lies would  lose  the  premium.  From 
this  you  can  see  they  are  in  bondage 
to  these  secret  organizations',  and  if 
they  want  to  pay  tithing  they  cannot 
do  it.  Well,  if  they  do  not  they  will  be 
among  those  whose  names  will  not  be 
found  recorded  in  the  book  of  the  Law 
of  the  Lord  and  who  will  not  have  in- 
heritance in  the  Zion  of  God.  Further- 
more, we  have  called  some  of  these  men 
to  go  on  missions,  but  they  could  not 
go  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  nations 


of  the  earth,  why?  Because  they  be- 
longed to  certain  secret  associations, 
and  they  were  compelled  to  be  at  work 
all  the  time  in  order  to  pay  their  dues, 
or  they  would  lose  what  they  had  put 
in  them. 

•  I  want  to  say  to  the  Later-day  Saints 
that  Zion  and  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  good 
enough  for  me  and  my  family.  I  do 
not  want  any  of  these  associations  for 
the  purpose  of  laying  up  money.  If 
there  were  any  other  object  in  them  by 
which  I  might  be  able  to  do  good  in  the 
world,  that  might  be  an  inducement. 
But  I  cannot  afford  to  join  any  associ- 
ation simply  for  the  purpose  of  laying 
up  money  to  be  received  when  I  am 
dead.  I  am  willing  to  trust  my  people  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord,  just  as  I  have 
been  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  from  the 
beginning. 

Now  I  will  read  a  little  from  the  Book 
of  Mormon  in  regard  to  the  law  of  tith- 
ing as  it  existed  in  ancient  days.  The 
Prophet  Alma,  in  his  13th  chapter,  com- 
mencing at  the  14th  verse  says: 

"14.  Tea,  humble  yourself  even  as 
the  people  in  the  days  of  Melchisedek, 
who  was  also  a  High  Priest  after  this 
same  order,  which  I  have  spoken,  who 
also  took  upon  him  the  High  Priest- 
hood forever. 

"15.  And  it  was  the  same  Melchise- 
dek to  whom  Abraham  paid  tithes;  yea, 
even  our  Father  Abraham  paid  tithes  of 
one-tenth  of  all  he  possesed. 

"16.  Now  these  ordinances  were 
given  after  this  manner,  that  thereby 
the  people  might  look  forward  on  the 
Son  of  God,  it  being  a  type  of  his  order, 
or  it  being  his  order;  and  this,  that 
they  might  look  forward  to  him  for  a 
remission  of  their  sins,  that  they  might 
enter  into  the  rest  of  the  Lord. 

"17.  Now  this  Melchisedek  was  a 
king  over  the  land  of  Salem;  and  his 
people  waxed  strong  in  iniquity  and 
abominations;  yea,  they  had  all  gone 
astray;  they  were  full  of  all  manner  of 
wickedness: 

"18.  But  Melchisedek  having  exer- 
cised mighty  faith,  and  received  the  of- 
fice of  the  High  Priesthood,  according 
to  the  holy  order  of  God,  did  preach  re- 
pentance unto  his  people.  And  behold, 
they  did  repent;  and  Melchisedek  did  es- 
tablish peace  in  the  land  in  his  days; 
therefore  he  was  called  the  prince  of 
peace,  for  he  was  the  king  of  Salem; 
and  he  did  reign  under  his  father. 

"19.  Now,  there  were  many  before 
him,  and  also  there  were  many  after- 
wards, but  none  were  greater;  there- 
fore, of  him  they  have  more  particular- 
ly made  mention." 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


41 


I  desire  now  to  read  a  few  words  in 
relation  to  the  duty  which  devolves 
upon  the  men  who  have  been  speaking 
during  this  conference.  I  will  read  a 
portion  of  the  41st  Section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants: 

"Hearken  and  hear,  oh  ye  my  people, 
saith  the  Lord  and  your  God,  ye  whom 
I  delight  to  bless  with  the  greatest 
blessings,  ye  that  hear  me;  and  ye 
that  hear  me  not  will  I  curse,  that  have 
professed  by  name,  with  the  heaviest  of 
all  cursings. 

"2.  Hearken,  O  ye  Elders  of  my 
Church  whom  I  have  called;  behold  I 
give  unto  you  a  commandment,  that  ye 
shall  assemble  yourselves  together  to 
agree  upon  my  word, 

"3.  And  by  the  prayer  of  your  faith 
ye  shall  receive  my  law,  that  ye  may 
know  how  to  govern  my  Church,  and 
have  all  things  right  before  me. 

"4.  And  I  will  be  your  ruler  when  I 
come;  and  behold,  I  come  quickly,  and 
ye  shall  see  that  my  law  is  kept." 

The  Lord  here  especially  demands  of 
the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  and  who  are  responsible  for  the 
guidance  and  direction  of  the  people  of 
God  that  they  shall  see  to  it  that  the 
law  of  God  is  kept.  It  is  our  duty  to  do 
this.  We  are  not  talking  to  you  about 
paying  your  tithing  because  it  is  a 
pleasure  to  do  so,  or  because  we  desire 
to  harp  upon  that  principle;  but  we  are 
doing  it  because  the  necessities  of  the 
people  are  such  that  it  becomes  obli- 
gatory upon  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
to  say  something  upon  this  principle, 
that  not  only  the  people  may  do  their 
duty  in  regard  to  this  law,  but  that 
there  may  be  something  in  the  store- 
house of  the  Lord  with  which  to  meet 
the  necessities  of  the  people;  for  the  ne- 
cessities of  the  Church  are  the  neces- 
sities of  the  people.  The  members  of  the 
Church  constitute  the  Church.and  there- 
fore whatever  obligation  the  Church  is 
under,  it  rests  upon  each  individual 
member  of  the  Church  proportionate  to 
his  means.  The  Lord  requires  of  us  that 
we  shall  see  that  His  law  is  kept  among 
the  people.  This  is  one  of  the  principle 
reasons  why  we  are  talking  to  you  as 
we  are.  In  Section  82  of  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord 
speaking  to  the  Church  says: 

"Verily,  verily  I  say  unto  you  my  ser- 
vants, that  inasmuch  as  ye  have  for- 
given one  another  your  trespasses,  even 
so  I,  the  Lord,  forgive  you. 


"2.  Nevertheless  there  are  those 
among  you  who  have  sinned  exceeding- 
ly; yea,  even  all  of  you  have  sinned,  but 
verily  I  say  unto  you,  beware  from 
henceforth,  and  refrain  from  sin,  lest 
sore  judgments  fall  upon  your  heads; 

"3.  For  unto  whom  much  is  given 
much  is  required;  and  he  who  sins 
against  the  greater  light  shall  receive 
the  greater  condemnation. 

"4.  Ye  call  upon  my  name  for  reve- 
lations, and  I  give  them  unto  you;  and 
inasmuch  as  ye  keep  not  my  sayings, 
which  I  give  unto  you,  ye  become  trans- 
gressors, and  justice  and  judgment 
are  the  penalty  which  is  affixed  unto  my 
law; 

"5.  Therefore,  what  I  say  unto  one 
I  say  unto  all,  watch,  for  the  adversary 
spreadeth  his  dominions  and  darkness 
reigneth; 

"6.  And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  kind- 
leth  against  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth;  and  none  doeth  good,  for  all 
have  gone  out  of  the  way. 

"7.  And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I 
the  Lord,  will  not  lay  any  sin  to  your 
charge;  go  your  ways  and  sin  no  more; 
but  unto  that  soul  who  sinneth  shall 
the  former  sins  return,  saith  the  Lord 
your  God. 

"8.  And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give 
unto  you  a  new  commandment,  that  you 
may  understand  my  will  concerning 
you, 

"9.  Or  in  other  words  I  will  give 
unto  you  directions  how  you  may  act 
before  me,  that  it  may  turn  to  you  for 
your  salvation. 

"10.  I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say,  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I 
say,  ye  have  no  promise." 

Now,  Brother  Lyman  has  been  talk- 
ing to  you  about  the  remission  of  sins. 
When  we  commit  sin,  it  is  necessary 
that  we  repent  of  it  and  make  restitu- 
tion as  far  as  lies  in  our  power.  When 
we  cannot  make  restitution  for  the 
wrong  we  have  done  then  we  must  ap- 
ply for  the  grace  and  mercy  of  God  to 
cleanse  us  from  that  iniquity. 

Men  cannot  forgive  their  own  sins; 
they  cannot  cleanse  themselves  from 
the  consequences  of  their  sins.  Men 
can  stop  sinning  and  can  do  right  in  the 
future,  and  so  far  their  acts  are  accept- 
able before  the  Lord  and  worthy  of 
consideration.  But  who  shall  repair  the 
wrongs  they  have  done  to  themselves 
and  to  others,  which  it  seems  impos- 
sible for  them  to  repair  themselves?  By 
the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  sins 
of  the  repentant  shall  be  washed  away, 
though  they  be  crimson  they  shall  be 
made  white  as  wool.  This  is  the  pro- 
mise given  to  you  through  the  President 
of  the  Church  today.   We  who  have  not 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


paid  our  tithing  in  the  past,  and  are 
therefore  under  obligations  to  the  Lord, 
which  we  are  not  in  a  position  at 
present  to  discharge,  he  has  said 
to  us  the  Lord  requires  that  no  longer 
at  our  hands,  but  will  forgive  us  for  the 
past  if  we  will  observe  this  law  honestly 
in  the  future.  That  is  generous  and 
kind,  and  I  feel  grateful  for  it. 

I  will  read  row  a  few  verses  from  Sec- 
tion 85  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants, commencing  at  the  9th  verse: 

"And  all  they  who  are  not  found  writ- 
ten in  the  book  of  remembrance,  shall 
find  none  inheritance  in  that  day,  but 
they  shall  Oe  cut  asunder,  and  their 
portion  shall  be  appointed  them  among 
unbelievers,  where  are  wailing  and 
gnashing  of  teeth. 

"These  things  I  say  not  of  myself; 
therefore,  as  the  Lord  speaketh,  He  will 
also  fulfill. 

"And  they  who  are  of  the  High  Priest- 
hood, whose  names  are  not  found  writ- 
ten in  the  book  of  the  law,  or  that  are 
found  to  have  apostatized,  or  to  have 
been  cut  off  from  the  Church;  as  well 
as  the  lesser  Priesthood,  or  the  mem- 
bers, in  that  day,  shall  not  find  an  in- 
heritance among  the  Saints  of  the  Most 
High; 

"Therefore  it  shall  be  done  unto  them 
as  unto  the  children  of  the  priests,  as 
will  be  found  recorded  in  the  second 
chapter  and  sixty-first  and  second 
verses  of  Ezra." 

I  am  going  to  turn  now  to  Ezra  and 
see  what  is  said  there.   We  read: 

"61.  And  the  children  of  the  Priests; 
the  children  of  Habaiah,  the  children 
of  Koz,  the  children  of  Barzillai;  which 
took  a  wife  of  the  daughters  of  Barzillai 
the  Gileadite,  and  was  called  after 
their  name; 

"62.  These  sought  their  register 
among  those  that  were  reckoned  by 
genealogy,  but  they  were  not  found, 
therefore  were  they,  as  polluted  put 
from  the  Priesthood. 

"63.  And  the  Tirshatha  said  unto 
them,  that  they  should  not  eat  of  the 
most  holy  things,  till  there  stood  up  a 
Priest  with  Urim  and  Thummim." 

This  is  the  position  the  people  will 
be  in  when  they  come  to  claim  an  in- 
heritance in  Zion,  if  their  names  are 
not  found  recorded  in  the  book  of  the 
law  of  God.  And  I  want  to  tell  you 
that  this  refers  directly  to  the  law  of 
tithing.  In  the  first  place  it  referred 
to  the  law  of  consecration,  but  that  law, 
as  has  been  explained,  was  not  properly 
kept,  and  inasmuch  as  people  are  under 
greater  condemnation  when  they  keep 
not  the  laws  that  are  given  them,  the 


Lord  in  His  mercy  withdrew  from  the 
Latter-day  Saints  the  law  of  consecra- 
tion, because  the  people  were  not  pre- 
pared to  live  it,  and  as  long  as  it  was 
in  force  and  they  kept  it  not  they  were 
under  condemnation.  The  law  of  tith- 
ing was  given  in  its  place. 

Some  people  may  not  care  very  much 
whether  their  names  are  recorded  or 
not,  but  this  comes  from  ignorance 
of  the  consequences.  If  their  names 
are  not  recorded  they  will  not  only  be 
cut  off  from  the  assistance  which  they 
would  be  entitled  to  from  the  Church 
if  they  needed  it,  but  they  will  be  cut 
off  from  the  ordinances  of  the  house  of 
God;  they  will  be  cut  asunder  from 
their  dead  and  from  their  fathers  who 
have  been  faithful,  or  from  those  who 
shall  come  after  them  who  shall  be 
faithful,  and  they  will  be  appointed 
their  portion  with  the  unbelievers, 
where  there  is  weeping  and  gnashing  of 
teeth.  It  means  that  you  will  be  cut 
off  from  your  fathers  and  mothers, 
from  your  husbands,  your  wives,  your 
children,  and  that  you  shall  have  no 
portion  or  lot  or  inheritance  in  the  king- 
dom of  God,  both  in  time  and  in  eter- 
nity. It  has  a  very  serious  and  far 
reaching  effect.  It  is  therefore  the 
more  obligatory  upon  me  and  upon  my 
fellow-servants  in  the  Church  of  God 
to  make  these  matters  known  to  the 
people,  that  our  skirts  may  be  free  from 
their  blood.  I  need  not  read  to  you 
from  Malachi,  but  I  will  read  something 
from  Amos,  who  is  called  one  of  the 
lesser  Prophets.  The  Prophet  says — 
and  he  says  it  ironically: 

"4.  Come  to  Bethel,  and  transgress; 
at  Gilgal  multiply  transgressions;  and 
bring  your  sacrifices  every  morning, 
and  your  tithes  after  three  years. 

"5.  And  offer  a  sacrifice  of  thanks- 
giving with  leaven,  and  proclaim  and 
publish  the  free  offerings;  for  this 
liketh  you,  O  ye  children  of  Israel,  saith 
the  Lord  God. 

"6.  And  I  also  have  given  you  clean- 
ness of  teeth  in  all  your  cities,  and  want 
of  bread  in  all  your  places;  yet  have  ye 
not  returned  unto  me,  saith  the  Lord. 

"7.  And  also  I  have  withholden  the 
rain  from  you,  when  there  were  yet 
three  months  to  the  harvest;  and  I 
caused  it  to  rain  upon  one  city,  and 
caused  it  not  to  rain  upon  another  city; 
one  piece  was  rained  upon,  and  the 
piece  whereupon  it  rained  not  withered. 

"8.  So  two  or  three  cities  wandered 
unto  one  city,  to  drink  water;  but  they 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


43 


were  not  satisfied;  yet  have  ye  not  re- 
turned unto  me,  saith  the  Lord. 

"9.  I  have  smitten  you  with  blasting 
and  mildew;  when  your  gardens  and 
your  vineyards,  and  your  fig  trees,  and 
your  olive  trees  increased,  the  palmer- 
worm  devoured  them;  yet  have  ye  not 
returned  unto  me,  saith  the  Lord. 

"10.  I  have  sent  among  you  the  pes- 
tilence after  the  manner  of  Egypt; 
your  young  men  have  I  slain  with  the 
sword,  and  have  taken  away  your 
horses;  and  I  have  made  the  stink  of 
your  camps  to  come  up  unto  your  nos- 
trils; yet  have  ye  not  returned  unto 
me,  saith  the  Lord. 

"11.  I  have  overthrown  some  of  you, 
as  God  overthrew  Sodom  and  Gomor- 
rah, and  ye  were  as  a  firebrand  plucked 
out  of  the  burning;  yet  have  ye  not  re- 
turned unto  me,  saith  the  Lord. 

"12.  Therefore  thus  will  I  do  unto 
thee,  O  Israel;  and  because  I  will  do 
this  unto  thee,  prepare  to  meet  thy 
God,  O  Israel. 

"13.  For,  lo,  he  that  formeth  the 
mountains,  and  createth  the  wind  and 
declareth  unto  man  what  is  his  thought, 
that  maketh  the  morning  darkness,  and 
treadeth  upon  the  high  places  of  the 
earth,  the  Lord,  the  God  of  Hosts,  is 
His  name. 

"14.  Hear  ye  this  word  which  I  take 
up  against  you,  even  a  lamentation,  O 
house  of  Israel. 

"15.  The  virgin  of  Israel  is  fallen; 
she  shall  no  more  rise;  she  is  forsaken 
upon  her  land;  there  is  none  to  raise 
her  up." 

These  were  the  consequences  of  dis- 
obedience on  the  part  of  ancient  Israel, 
the  same  power  reigns  today  that 
reigned  then. 

I  have  referred  you  to  some  of  the 
chastisements  and  promises  of  punish- 
ments upon  those  who  will  not  hearken 
unto  the  Lord  nor  obey  His  law.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  are  in  the  midst  of 
these  mountains  for  the  express  pur- 
pose of  serving  Almighty  God.  We 
have  not  come  here  to  serve  ourselves 
nor  to  serve  the  world.  We  are  here 
because  we  have  believed  in  the  Gospel 
that  has  been  restored  in  the  latter  day 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We 
are  here  because  we  believe  that  God 
Almighty  has  organized  His  Church 
and  has  restored  the  fullness  of  the  Gos- 
pel and  Holy  Priesthood.  We  are  here 
because  we  have  received  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  the 
course  which  we  have  pursued  in  this 
regard  is  right  and  acceptable  in  the 
sight  of  the  Lord.  We  are  here  be- 
cause we  have  come  in  obedience  to  the 
command  of  the  Almighty. 


Now  let  me  show  to  you  how  the 
Lord  poured  out  blessings  upon  His 
people  anciently  when  they  obeyed  the 
law  of  tithing.  I  will  read  from  the 
31st  chapter  of  II  Chronicles,  com- 
mencing at  the  5th  verse: 

"5.  And  as  soon  as  the  command- 
ment came  abroad,  the  children  of 
Israel  brought  in  abundance  the  first 
fruits  of  corn,  wine  and  oil,  and  honey, 
and  of  all  the  increase  of  the  field;  and 
the  tithe  of  all  things  brought  they  in 
abundantly." 

This  is  in  accordance  with  the  law  of 
tithing  that  was  given  to  the  children 
through  Moses,  as  you  may  read  in  the 
27th  chapter  of  Leviticus: 

"And  concerning  the  children  of 
Israel  and  Judah,  that  dwelt  in  the 
cities  of  Judah,  they  also  brought  in 
the  tithes  of  oxen  and  sheep,  and  the 
tithe  of  holy  things  which  were  con- 
secrated unto  the  Lord  their  God,  and 
laid  them  by  heaps. 

"In  the  third  month  they  began  to 
lay  the  foundation  of  the  heaps,  and 
finished  them  in  the  seventh  month. 

"And  when  Hezekiah  and  the  princ- 
es came  and  saw  the  heaps,  they 
blessed  the  Lord  and  His  people  Israel. 

"Then  Hezekiah  questioned  with 
the  Priests  and  the  Levites  concerning 
the  heaps. 

"And  Azariah  the  chief  Priest,  of 
the  house  of  Zadok,  answered  him  and 
said,  Since  the  people  began  to  bring 
the  offerings  into  the  house  of  the 
Lord,  we  have  had  enough  to  eat,  and 
have  left  plenty;  for  the  Lord  has 
blessed  His  people;  and  that  which  is 
left  is  this  great  store." 

In  connection  with  this  passage  of 
scripture  I  would  remind  you  of  the 
promise  made  through  the  Prophet 
Malachi  to  the  children  of  Israel: 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the 
storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in 
mine  house,  and  prove  me  now  here- 
with, saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will 
not  open  you  the  windows  of  Heaven, 
and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it. 

"And  I  will  rebuke  the  devou'f"  foi 
your  sakes,  and  he  shall  not  destroy 
the  fruits  of  your  ground;  neither  shall 
your  vine  cast  her  fruit  before  the  time 
in  the  field,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts." 

I  know  that  the  Lord  will  do  this  to 
those  who  fear  Him  and  work  righte- 
ousness before  Him. 

I  refer  you  now  to  the  28th  chapter  of 
Deut.,  and  also  to  the  26th  chapter 
of  Leviticus.  They  run  almost  parallel. 
I  will  read  from  the  28th  chapter  of 
Deut: 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  if  thou 
shalt  hearken  diligently  unto  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  thy  God,  to  observe  and  to 
do  all  His  commandments  which  I  com- 
mand thee  this  day,  that  the  Lord  thy 
God  will  set  thee  on  high  above  all  na- 
tions of  the  earth. 

"And  all  these  blessings  shall  come 
on  thee  and  overtake  thee,  if  thou  shalt 
hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the  Lord  thy 
God. 

"Blessed  shalt  thou  be  in  the  city, 
and  blessed  shalt  thou  be  in  the  field. 

"Blessed  shall  be  the  fruit  of  chy 
body,  and  the  fruit  of  thy  ground,  and 
the  fruit  of  thy  cattle,  the  increase  of 
thy  kine,  and  the  flocks  of  thy  shear- 

"Blessed  shall  be  thy  basket  and 
thy  store. 

"Blessed  shalt  thou  be  when  thou 
comest  in,  and  blessed  shalt  thou  be 
when  thou  goest  out. 

"The  Lord  shall  cause  thine  ene- 
mies that  rise  up  against  thee  to  be 
smitten  before  thy  face;  they  shail 
come  out  against  thee  one  way,  and 
flee  before  thee  seven  ways. 

"The  Lord  shall  command  the  bles- 
sing upon  thee  in  thy  storehouses,  and 
in  all  that  thou  settest  thine  hand  unto; 
and  he  shall  bless  thee  in  the  land 
which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  chee. 

"The  Lord  shall  establish  thee  a 
holy  people  unto  Himself,  as  He  hath 
sworn  unto  thee,  if  thou  shalt  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  thy  God, 
and  walk  in  His  ways. 

"And  all  people  of  the  earth  shall 
see  that  thou  art  called  by  the  name 
of  the  Lord;  and  they  shall  be  afraid 
of  thee. 

"And  the  Lord  shall  make  thee 
plenteous  in  goods,  in  the  fruit  of  thy 
body,  and  in  the  fruit  of  thy  cattle, 
and  in  the  fruit  of  thy  ground,  in  the 
land  which  the  Lord  sware  unto  thy 
fathers  to  give  thee. 

"The  Lord  shall  open  unto  thee 
His  good  treasure,  the  Heaven  to  give 
the  rain  unto  thy  land  in  His  season, 
and  to  bless  all  the  work  of  thine  hand, 
and  thou  shalt  lend  unto  many  nation-?, 
and  thou  shalt  not  borrow." 

God  hasten  the  day  when  this  people 
shall  be  in  a  position  to  lend  and  not 
be  under  the  necessity  of  borrowing  at 
all,  and  I  believe  the  only  remedy  that 
is  necessary  to  bring  about  this  result 
is  for  the  people  to  observe  the  law  of 
tithing.  If  the  people  of  God  would 
pay  their  tithing  honestly  we  would 
have  abundance  with  which  cc  build 
Temples  and  to  maintain  the  work  of 
the  Lord  in  the  Temples;  we  would 
have  abundance  to  take  care  of  the 
widows  and  orphans  and  the  poor  in 
our  midst.  We  would  not  have  to  ask 
you  to  donate  this  little  thing  and  that 
little  thing  for  the  benefit  of  the  poor 


but  we  would  have  enough  to  meet  all 
of  these  necessities  in  my  opinion.  But 
as  long  as  some  people  are  disobedient 
and  neglectful  in  observing  this  law, 
those  who  are  willing  will  of  necessity 
be  called  upon  from  time  to  time  to 
show  their  further  liberality  in  main- 
taining the  poor.  I  want  to  say  for  the 
benefit  of  our  friends  who  may  be  pres- 
ent that  the  Latter-day  Saints  do  not 
ask  their  non-Mormon  neighbors  to  feed 
their  poor.  We  do  it  ourselves  and  we 
feed  hundreds  that  are  not  of  us  be- 
sides. However,  those  who  do  not  pay 
their  tithing  are  not  entitled  to  the  help 
that  they  would  be  if  they  paid  their 
tithing.  When  one  comes  to  a  Bishop 
and  asks  for  assistance  because  of  his 
or  her  straightened  circumstances,  the 
first  thing  the  Bishop  should  do  is  to  in- 
quire if  he  or  she  is  a  tithe  payer.  He 
should  know  whether  the  name  is  on 
the  book  of  the  law  of  the  Lord,  and 
if  not  on  the  book,  if  he  or  she  has 
been  derelict  and  negligent  in  relation 
to  this  principle  of  tithing,  he  or  she 
has  no  claim  upon  the  Bishop,  neither 
have  their  children,  and  if  under  those 
circumstances  the  Bishop  assists  him, 
it  will  simply  be  out  of  pure  charity 
and  not  because  such  have  iny  claim 
upon  the  Church.  That  is  why  ihe 
widow  who  receives  assistance  from  the 
Church  should  pay  her  tithing,  so  that 
her  name  may  be  on  the  records  of  the 
Church.  It  is  not  a  law  that  is  ap- 
plicable to  one  and  not  to  another.  If 
the  rich  may  not  receive  blessings  be- 
cause their  names  are  not  oa  the  re- 
cord, then  neither  shall  the  poor  re- 
ceive blessings  in  the  house  of  God  if 
thMr  names  are  not  recorded.  So  long 
as  a  poor  person  receives  his  or  her  sup- 
port through  the  tithings  of  the  people, 
they  should  be  willing  to  observe  the 
law  themselves  in  order  that  they  may 
be  entitled  to  what  they  receive.  They 
should  show  by  their  observance  of  the 
law  that  they  are  law-keepers  and  not 
law-breakers.  Our  children,  as  soon  as 
they  become  old  enough  to  earn  means, 
should  be  taught  to  pay  th^ir  tithing, 
that  their  names  may  be  written  in  the 
t  ook  of  the  law  of  the  Lord,  7o  that  if 
perchance  their  fathers  die  and  they 
are  left  orphans,  their  names,  as  weil 
as  the  names  of  their  parents,  will  be 
f.iund  unon  the  records  and  they  will 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 


45 


as  God  lives,  be  entitled  to  their  sup- 
port and  to  their  education.  It  is  our 
duty  to  look  after  these  children  and  see 
that  they  have  an  equal,  chance  with 
those  who  are  more  favored  with  par- 
ents to  look  after  them. 

"And  the  Lord  shall  make  thee  the 
head,  and  not  the  tail;  and  thou  shalt 
be  above  only,  and  thou  shalt  no1:  he  be- 
neath; if  that  thou  hearken  unto  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  thy  God, 
which  I  command  thee  this  day,  to  ob- 
serve and  to  do  them." 

These  are  the  promises  that  the  Lord 
made  to  the  people  of  Israel  anciently, 
if  they  would  hearken  unto  His  words 
and  obey  His  laws. 

Now,  I  want  to  say  to  you  without 
any  hesitancy  or  fear  of  successful  con- 
tradiction, that  the  words  which  [  have 
read  in  your  hearing  are  as  applicable 
to  you  as  they  were  to  the  children  of 
Israel.  You  are  modern  Israel  and  they 
were  ancient  Israel.  The  same  Go.l 
spake  through  His  servant  Moses  that 
speaks  today  through  His  servant  Lo- 
renzo Snow.  Obedience  to  the  laws  of 
God  will  produce  the  same  results  to- 
day that  it  did  anciently.  To  those  who 
know  the  history  of  ancient  Israel  ii  is 
perhaps  not  necessary  for  me  to  say 
that  these  words  were  fulfilled  upon 
Israel.  As  long  as  they  hearkened  to 
His  word,  God  did  prosper  them;  He 
did  bless  their  land;  He  did  send  them 
the  early  and  the  latter  rains;  He  did 
multiply  them  and  strengthen  them  in 
the  land;  He  did  set  them  on  high;  He 
did  make  them  His  covenant  people, 
and  they  became  famous  throughout 
the  known  world.  The  glory  of  Solomon 
reached  to  the  uttermost  parts  of  the 
earth.  The  kings  and  queens  of  the 
earth  heard  of  his  greatness  anil  of  his 
wisdom.  They  took  pilgrimages  to 
Jerusalem  to  see  for  themselves  and  to 
verify  the  reports  they  had  heard  of 
the  greatness  of  the  children  of  Israel. 
The  Queen  of  Sheba  went  and  saw 
Solomon  in  his  glory.  She  heard  of  the 
wisdom  that  fell  from  his  lips  and  be- 
held the  greatness  of  his  kingdom,  and 
she  said  to  the  king:  "It  was  a  true  re- 
port that  I  heard  in  mine  own  land  of 
thy  acts  and  of  thy  wisdom.  Howbeit 
I  believed  not  the  words,  until  I  came, 
and  mine  eyes  had  seen  it;  and  be- 
hold, the  half  was  not  told  The:  thy 


wisdom  and  prosperity  exceedeth  the 
fame  which  I  heard.  Happy  are  thy 
men,  happy  are  these  thy  servants, 
which  stand  continually  before  thee, 
and  that  hear  thy  wisdom." 

I  commend  to  you  the  careful  reading 
of  the  remaining  portion  of  this  chapter 
in  Deuteronomy.    Time  will  not  permit 
me  to  read  it,  but  I  would  like  you  to 
read  and  contemplate  it  at  your  leis- 
ure, for  there  you  will  find,  as  if  written 
by  eye-witnesses,  history  of  the  judg- 
ments of  God  that  subsequently  fell  up- 
on the  children  of    Israel,    with  an 
acurate  account  of  the  downfall  and 
disintegration  of  the  people.    They  be- 
came a  hiss  and  a  byword  among  the 
nations    of    the    earth.     They  were 
broken  asunder,  they  were  carried  cap- 
tive into  the  various  nations    of  the 
earth;  they  served  under  taskmasters; 
from  that  day  unto  the  present  they 
have  been  under  the    curse    of  God 
through  disobedience  to  His  laws,  and 
they  will  remain  under  that  curse  of 
disobedience  so  long  as  they  tail  to  re- 
pent of  their  sins  and  return  not  unto 
the  Lord.   But  just  as  soon  as  they  will 
hearken  to  the  voice  of  Malachi  and 
return  unto  the  Lord  and  begin  to  ob- 
serve His  laws  and  ordinances,  then 
will  be  fulfilled  the  promise  of  the  an- 
cient Prophet  that  God  will  open  the 
windows  of  Heaven  and  pour  out  bles- 
sings upon  them  till  they  will  not  have 
room  to  contain  them.    But  this  will 
not  be  until  they  repent  and  turn  tin  to 
the  Lord.    Neither  will  it  be  with  us 
until  we  repent  for  there  are  many  of 
us  who  are  just  as  guilty  of  disobedi- 
ence to  the  laws  of  God  today  as  were 
ancient  Israel.    Some  of  us,  too,  \\  ho 
have  pretended  to  do  our  duty  m  regard 
to  this  law,  and  who  have  preached 
obedience  to  it,  have  not  kept  it.  We 
go  to  the  books,  we  see  the  records  of 
men,  and  in  a  great  measure  we  know 
what  they  have  done,  and  I  can  tell 
you  that  there  are  men  amongst  us  who 
stand  high  in  their  own  estimation  and 
in  the  estimation  of  the  people,  who 
have  never  paid  their  tithing.   Yet  these 
men  ought  to  be  examples  to  the  \  eople. 
They  ought  to  be  saying  to  the  people, 
"come  follow  me,  and  do  the  things  that 
I  do,"  but  they  have  not  been  that  class 
of  men,  though  I  trust  they  will  be  in 
the  future.   I  hope  that  when  they  pay 


4(5 


GEAERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  tithing  of  their  salaries,  they  will 
also  pay  the  tithing  on  their  dividends 
and  on  the  increase  of  their  flocks  and 
herds,  and  thus  pay  an  honest  tithing. 
Thei.  we  will  have  abundance  in  the 
storehouse  of  the  Lord  to  meet  all  the 
exigencies  of  the  people.   May  God  help 


THIRD 


Sunday,  October  8th,  10  a.  m. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

Lo!  the  mighty  God  appearing, 

From  on  high,  Jehovah  speaks! 
Eastern  lands  the  summons  hearing, 

O'er  the  west  his  thunder  breaks. 

Prayer  by  Elder  Benjamin  E.  Rich. 
The  choir  sang: 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded — 
Zion,  kept  by  power  divine; 

All  her  foes  shall  be  confounded, 
Though  the  world  in  arms  combine; 

Happy  Zion, 
What  a  favored  lot  is  thine. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

The  Saints  the  Saviors  of  Men— The  Unfaithful 
like  Sa't  that  has  Lost  its  Savor — Redemption 
of  Zion  may  be  Deferred  by  Disobedience — 
Prophets  and  Apostles  like  other  Men— Respon- 
sibility of  Parents  —  Benign  Genius  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 

I  will  read  a  portion  of  the  84th  Sec- 
tion of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants: 

"17.  Which  Priesthood  continueth  in 
the  Church  of  God  in  all  generations, 
and  is  without  beginning  of  days'  or  end 
of  years. 

"18.  And  the  Lord  confirmed  a  Priest- 
hood also  upon  Aaron  and  his  6eed, 
throughout  all  their  generations — which 
Priesthood  also  continueth  and  abideth 
forever  with  the  Priesthood,  which  is 
after  the  holiest  order  of  God. 

"19.  And  this  greater  Priesthood  ad- 
ministereth  the  Gospel  and  holdeth  the 
key  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom 
even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God; 

"20.  Therefore,  in  the  ordinances 
thereof,  the  power  of  godliness  is  mani- 
fest; 

"21.  And  without  the  ordinances 
thereof,  and  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood, the  power  of  godliness  is  not 
manifest  unto  men  in  the  flesh; 

"22.  For  without  this  no  man  can 
see  the  face  of  God,  even  the  Father, 
and  live. 


us  to  be  faithful  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang: 

"O  come,  all  ye  faithful." 
Benediction    by  Elder    William  T. 
Jack. 


DAY. 


"23.    Now  this  Moses  plainly  taught 

to  the  children  of  Israel  in  the  wilder- 
ness, and  sought  diligently  to  sanctify 
his  people  that  they  might  behold  the 
face  of  God; 

"24.  But  they  hardened  their  hearts 
and  could  not  endure  his  presence, 
therefore  the  Lord  in  His  wrath  (for 
His  anger  was  kindled  against  them) 
swore  that  they  should  not  enter  into 
His  rest  while  in  the  wilderness,  which 
rest  is  the  fullness  of  His  glory. 

"25.  Therefore  he  took  Moses  out  of 
their  midst,  and  the  Holy  Priesthood 
also; 

"26.  And  the  lesser  Priesthood  con- 
tinued, which  Priesthood  holdeth  the 
key  of  the  ministering  of  angels  and 
the  preparatory  Gospel; 

"27.  Which  Gospel  is  the  Gospel  of 
repentance  and  of  baptism,  and  the  re- 
mission of  sins,  and  the  law  of  carnal 
commandments,  which  the  Lord  in  His 
wrath  caused  to  continue  with  the 
house  of  Aaron  among  the  children  of 
Israel  until  John,  whom  God  raised  up. 
being  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost  from 
his  mother's  womb; 

"28.  For  he  was  baptized  while  he 
was  yet  in  his  childhood,  and  was  or- 
dained by  the  angel  of  God  at  the  time 
he  was  eight  days  old  unto  this  power, 
to  overthrow  the  kingdom  of  the  Jews, 
and  to  make  straight  the  way  of  the 
Lord  before  the  face  of  His  people,  to 
prepare  them  for  the  coming  of  the 
.Lord,  in  whose  hand  is  given  all  power. 

"29.  And  again,  the  offices  of  Elder 
and  Bishop  are  necessary  appendages 
belonging  unto  the  High  Priesthood. 

"30.  And  again,  the  offices  of  Teacher 
and  Deacon  are  necessary  appendages 
belonging  to  the  lesser  Priesthood, 
which  Priesthood  was  confirmed  upon 
Aaron  and  his  sons. 

"31.  Therefore,  as  I  said  concerning 
the  sons  of  Moses — for  the  sons  of 
Moses,  and  also  the  sons  of  Aaron 
shall  offer  an  acceptable  offering  and 
sacrifice  in  the  house  of  the  Lord,  which 
house  shall  be  built  unto  the  Lord  in 
this  generation,  upon  the  consecrated 
spot  as  I  have  appointed; 

"32.  And  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of 
Aaron  shall  be  filled  with  the  glory  of 
the  Lord,  upon  Mount  Zion  in  the 
Lord's  house,  whose  sons  are  ye;  end 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 


47 


also  many  whom  I  have  called  and  sent 
forth  to  build  up  my  Church. 

"33.  For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the 
obtaining-  these  two  Priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnify- 
ing their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the 
Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their 
bodies; 

"34.  They  become  the  sons  of  Moses 
and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abraham, 
end  the  Church  and  kingdom,  and  the 
elect  of  God; 

"35.  And  also  all  they  who  receive 
this  Priesthood  receiveth  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

"36.  For  he  that  receiveth  my  serv- 
ants receiveth  me; 

"37.  And  he  that  receiveth  me  re- 
ceiveth my  Father; 

"38.  And  he  that  receiveth  my  Fath- 
er, receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom; 
therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall 
be  given  unto  him; 

"39.  And  this  is  according  to  the  oath 
and  covenant  which  belongeth  to  the 
Priesthood. 

"40.  Therefore,  all  those  who  receive 
the  Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and 
covenant  of  my  Father,  which  he  can- 
not break,  neither  can  it  be  moved; 

"41.  But  whoso  breaketh  this  coven- 
ant, after  he  hath  received  it  and  alto- 
gether turneth  therefrom,  shall  not 
have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this  world 
nor  in  the  world  to  come. 

"42.  And  all  those  who  come  not 
unto  this  Priesthood  which  ye  have  re- 
ceived, which  I  now  confirm  upon  you 
who  are  present  this  day,  by  mine  own 
voice  out  of  the  Heavens,  and  even  I 
have  given  the  Heavenly  hosts  and 
mine  angels  charge  concerning  you. 

"43.  And  I  now  give  unto  you  a 
commandment  to  beware  concerning 
yourselves,  to  give  diligent  heed  to  the 
words  of  eternal  life: 

"44.  For  you  shall  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God. 

"45.  For  the  word  of  the  Lord  is 
truth,  and  whatsoever  is  truth  is  light, 
and  whatsoever  is  light  is  Spirit,  even 
the  Spirit  of  Jesus  Christ;" 

In  standing  up  to  address  you  I  do 
so  relying  entirely  upon  the  blessing  of 
God,  which  I  hope  to  obtain  by  the  as- 
sistance of  your  faith  and  prayers.  To 
my  mind,  it  is  one  of  the  most  respon- 
sible positions  a  human  being  can  oc- 
cupy, to  address  a  congregation  upon 
the  things  pertaining  to  God  and  eter- 
nity. I  feel  the  weight  of  this  responsi- 
bility, and  I  would  not  attempt  to  speak 
to  you,  did  I  not  .know  that  it  is  our 
privilege  to  have  the  assistance  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  During  this  conference 
we  have  heard  most  excellent  discours- 
es, accompanied  by  the  power  of  God. 


The  Spirit  has  been  abundantly  poured 
out.  It  seems  to  me  that  no  man  or 
woman  could  listen  to  the  words  of  the 
Apostles  who  have  spoken  without  be- 
ing convinced  that  God  was  with  them. 
This  is  my  feeling,  and  I  can  bear  tes- 
timony to  the  truth  of  that  which  has 
been  said.  It  will  be  a  savor  of  life  unto 
life  or  of  death  unto  death  to  all  those 
who  have  listened. 

We  are  living  in  a  very  important 
time.  The  Lord  is  evidently  working 
with  His  servants  and  people.  He  is 
manifesting  His  Spirit  in  a  remarkable 
manner.  I  think  it  has  been  felt  by  every 
faithful  Latter-day  Saint  throughout 
the  Church.  Not  only  has  it  extended 
throughout  Zion,  but  it  has  been  felt  by 
the  Elders  and  Saints,  so  far  as  we  have 
heard,  in  distant  places.  In  1856  the 
Spirit  of  God  was  poured  out  in  great 
power  upon  the  servants  of  God  in 
Zion.  I  was  on  a  mission  at  the  time, 
as  doubtless  were  very  many  Elders, 
some  of  whom  may  be  present  today; 
and  we  had  the  same  Spirit  where  I 
was  laboring.  The  Lord  stirred  us  up 
in  the  same  way  that  our  brethren  at 
home  were  being  stirred  up.  The 
Spirit  of  reformation  went  throughout 
the  entire  Church.  The  people  were 
stirred  from  the  depth  of  their  hearts 
by  the  power  of  God.  The  effects  of 
that  reformation  were  most  excellent. 
A  great  many  adopted  good  resolu- 
tions which,  I  am  led  to  believe,  they 
clung  to  all  their  lives,  and  are  still 
clinging  to  them  if  they  are  alive.  They 
have  served  God  with  greater  diligence 
than  they  ever  did  before.  I  do  not 
doubt  that  will  be  the  effect  of  these 
meetings.  I  expect  to  see  a  thorough 
reformation  of  the  people,  and  renewed 
determination  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  more  strictly  than  ever 
before. 

In  connection  with  this  I  will  read 
another  portion  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  that  occurs  to  my  mind. 
It  is  a  revelation  that  was  given  in 
1834,  soon  after  the  occurrences  which 
President  Snow  read  about  yesterday. 
They  took  place  in  Jackson  county,  No- 
vember, 1833,  and  this  revelation  was 
given  to  the  Prophet  the  succeeding 
February.    The  Lord  says: 

"1.   "Verily  I  say  unto  you,  my  friends, 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


behold  I  will  give  unto  you  a  revela- 
tion and  commandment,  that  you  may 
know  how  to  act  in  the  discharge  of 
your  duties  concerning  the  salvation 
and  redemption  of  your  brethren,  who 
have  been  scattered  on  the  land-  of 
Zion; 

"2.  Being  driven  and  smitten  by  the 
hands  of  mine  enemies,  on  whom  I  will 
pour  out  my  wrath  without  measure  in 
mine  own  time; 

"3.  For  I  have  suffered  them  thus 
far,  that  they  might  fill  up  the  meas- 
ure of  their  iniquities,  that  their  cup 
might  be  full; 

"4.  And  that  those  who  call  them- 
selves after  my  name  might  be  chas- 
tened for  a  little  season  with  a  sore 
and  grievous  chastisement,  because  they 
did  not  hearken  altogether  unto  the 
precepts  and  commandments  which  I 
gave  unto  them." 

This  has  been  dwelt  upon  with  great 
fullness  by  nearly  all  the  brethren  who 
have  spoken  at  this  conference.  They 
have  called  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  Saints  were  scourged  in  those  early 
days  because  of  their  disobedience.  The 
Lord  here  explains  and  describes  to  the 
Church  very  plainly  the  reasons  why 
they  were  so  grievously  and  severely 
chastened: 

"And  that  those  who  call  themselves 
after  my  name  might  be  chastened  for 
a  little  season  with  a  sore  and  grievous 
chastisement,  because  they  did  not 
hearken  altogether  unto  the  precepts 
and  commandments  which  I  gave  unto 
them." 

The  Lord  continues: 

"5.  But  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  I 
have  decreed  a  decree  which  my  peo- 
ple shall  realize,  inasmuch  as  they 
hearken  from  this  very  hour,  unto  the 
counsel  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God, 
shall  give  unto  them. 

"6.  Behold  they  6hall,  for  I  have  de- 
creed it,  begin  to  prevail  against  mine 
enemies  from  this  very  hour, 

"7.  And  by  hearkening  to  observe  all 
the  words  which  I,  the  Lord  their  God, 
shall  speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never 
cease  to  prevail  until  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  are  subdued  under  my  feet, 
and  the  earth  is  given  unto  the  Saints, 
to  possess  it  for  ever  and  ever. 

"8.  But  inasmuch  as  they  keep  not 
my  commandments,  and  hearken  not  to 
observe  all  my  words;  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  shall  prevail  against  them, 

"9.  For  they  were  set  to  be  a  light 
unto  the  world,  and  to  be  the  saviors 
of  men; 

"10.  And  inasmuch  as  they  are  not 
the  saviors  of  men,  they  are  as  salt  that 
has  lost  its  savor,  and  is  thenceforth 
good  for  nothing  but  to  be  cast  out  and 
trodden  under  foot  of  men." 


There  cannot  be  a  doubt  in  any  faith- 
ful man's  mind  concerning  the  truth  of 
this  promise — the  promise    of  victory 
and  deliverance  on  the  one  hand,  the 
promise  of  punishment,    disaster  and 
trouble  on  the  other.    The  Latter-day 
Saints  have  in  their  experience  proved 
fully  the  truth  of  these  words.  They 
have  seen  them  fulfilled  to  the  very  let- 
ter.   When  they  have  been  faithful  in 
keeping  the  commandments  of  God  they 
have  prospered  and  they  have  had  de- 
liverance.   "When  they  have  been  un- 
faithful they  met  with  trouble  and  seri- 
ous difficulty.    It  is  necessary  that  the 
wicked  should  have  the  opportunity  to 
exercise  their  agency  in  relation  to  the 
work  of  God;  for  they  have  an  agency 
as  well  as  we.    It  is  their  privilege  to 
assist  in  building  up  the  work  of  God, 
or  they  can  exercise  their  agency  in 
fighting  the  work  of  God.    They  have 
the  privilege  to  do  everything  in  their 
power  to  destroy  it,  and  they  will  be 
permitted  to  do  this  until  the  cup  of 
their  iniquity  is  full.    The  Lord  deals 
justly  with  His  children,  no  matter  who 
they  are.    Not  only  Latter-day  Saints, 
but  all  mankind  are  the  children  of 
our  Heavenly  Father,  and  all  have  their 
agency.    When  we  quote  these  sayings 
of  the  Lord  concerning  this  work,  they 
are  not  peculiar  to  us;  the  promises  are 
not  intended  for  us  alone;  they  are  in- 
tended for  all  who  will  believe  and  obey 
His  Gospel.    Many  people  imagine  that 
when  we  talk  about  the  triumph  of  the 
Church  of  God  we  mean  to  confine  that 
triumph  to  those  who  belong  to  our 
Church.    Not  .  so;  this  is  for  the  whole 
world.    It  is  for  all  America,  as  well 
as  for  Utah.   God  has  made  most  glori- 
ous promises  to  this  nation.  According 
to  the  revelations  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon concerning  our  own  nation,  the 
Lord  has  destined  to  make  it  the  head 
of  all  the  nations  of  the  earth,  to  adopt 
it  as  His  nation  and  as  His  govern- 
ment, if  the  people  would  receive  the 
Gospel;  and  He  would  make  them  the 
means  of  saving  the  remnants  of  His 
covenant    people,    and    doing  other 
mighty  works.  This  is  all  foreshadowed 
in  the  prophecies  contained  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon. 

Joseph  Smith,  prompted  by  this  Spirit 
— the  man  whom  God  has  spoken  to;  a 


PRESIDED  T  GEORGE  Q  CANNON 


49 


Prophet  of  God — condescended  to  proffer 
himself  as  a  candidate  for  the  Presi- 
dency of  the  United  States.  Many  peo- 
ple thought  this  was  ambition  on  his 
part;  that  he  wanted  to  rule;  that  he 
aspired  to  power,  and  that  he  would  use 
It  for  the  carrying  out  of  his  own  plans 
and  forwarding  the  interests  of  his  own 
people.  Joseph  Smith  had  no  such  idea. 
He  was  prompted,  as  a  Prophet  of  God 
and  as  a  patriot,  to  step  forward  and 
offer  himself  as  a  candidate,  that  the 
nation  might  receive  the  fulfillment  of 
the  promises  which  the  Lord  had  made 
concerning  it.  He  gave  his  views  on 
the  power  and  policy  of  the  United 
States;  and  any  man  who  will  read 
those  views  today  will  see  how  much 
salvation  there  is  embodied  in  the  prin- 
ciples he  set  forth.  A  bloody  war  might 
have  been  averted;  millions  of  treasure 
might  have  been  saved;  thousands  upon 
thousands  of  lives  might  also  have  been 
saved,  if  they  had  only  received  him  as 
a  deliverer,  God  having  inspired  him 
to  take  that  course.  In  relation  to  this 
we  have  the  same  feelings  today.  Men 
accuse  us  of  being  unpatriotic,  of  not 
being  friendly,  and  of  having  designs 
inimical  to  the  peace  and  prosperity  of 
the  land.  I  say  to  you  today,  in  the 
presence  of  God,  that  no  more  patriotic 
people  live  upon  the  continent  of 
America  than  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  want  to  see  the  Constitution  of  this 
country  preserved,  that  every  man  shall 
enjoy  the  rights  guaranteed  by  that 
grand  instrument  of  liberty  which  God 
inspired  the  framers  to  make.  But  we 
differ  from  many  people  in  regard  to 
our  views  concerning  the  manner  in 
which  the  government  should  be  admin- 
istered. And  we  think,  as  free  men, 
descended  from  a  free  ancestry,  we 
have  a  right  to  differ  from  them,  and 
to  express  our  feelings  upon  this  point 
with  the  utmost  freedom;  that  we  are 
not  traitors  when  we  do  so,  but  are  the 
friends  of  the  government  and  of  the 
rights  of  human  beings  in  the  govern- 
ment. You  know,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  this  is  our  attitude  on  this 
question.  We  would  like  to  see  this 
government  so  ©table  that  it  will  never 
be  thrown  down.  It  can  only  be  made 
so  by  adhering  to  the  principles  which 
animated  the  founders  of  the  govern- 


ment, and  which  they  hoped  to  perpetu- 
ate through  the  constitution  and  th* 
laws  that  were  enacted. 

We  are  told  in  this  revelation  that 
the  wicked,  when  the  cup  of  their  in- 
iquity is  full,  will  receive  their  judg- 
ment. But  the  Latter-day  Saints  are 
called  upon  to  obey  the  commandments 
of  God.  He  has  revealed  himself  with 
power  to  them.  He  bears  testimony  to 
them  all  the  time  concerning  His  great 
work  that  He  is  seeking  to  establish  in 
the  earth.  He  wants  to  make  us  the 
saviors  of  men.  He  calls  us  the  salt 
of  the  earth.  We  are  the  salt  of  the 
earth.  We  are  not  conceited  in  saying 
this,  because  the  acts  of  the  faithful 
Latter-day  Saints  are  such  as  to  bring 
salvation  to  those  who  are  connected 
with  them.  I  wish  to  illustrate  this 
so  that  you  can  see  it  for  yourselves. 
Look  around  you  and  see  the  men  and 
the  women  who  have  proved  themselves 
unworthy  of  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  and  have  departed  from 
them.  Are  they  not  like  salt  that  has 
lost  its  savor?  We  have  had  hundreds 
of  them;  they  have  got  indifferent;  they 
have  lost  their  savor,  and  are  good  for 
nothing.  The  Saints  are  compared  to 
salt  that  has  its  saving  poperties. 
Wherever  we  go  we  should  be  saviors 
of  men.  We  should  seek  for  the  salva. 
tion  of  the  human  family  to  the  fullest 
extent  in  our  power.  God  has'  called  us 
to  this.  He  has  given  unto  us  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  and  He  has  pled  with  us 
now  for  these  many  years.  Think  of  it! 
this  revelation  from  which  I  have  read 
last  was  given  in  1834,  nearly  sixty-six 
years  ago.  The  promise  was  then  made 
unto  the  Saints  that  if  they  would  keep 
the  commandments  of  God  they  should 
prevail  from  that  very  hour.  Is  it  not 
true  that  this  would  have  been  fulfilled 
to  the  very  letter  if  we  had  kept  His 
commandments?  But  we  have  not  done 
so.  We  have  been  a  disobedient  people, 
notwithstanding  all  that  God  has  done 
for  us.  We  have  not  honored  His  laws; 
and  I  sometimes  thnk  we  are  like  our 
ancestor®,  the  children  of  Israel  (for 
God  has  said  that  we  are  of  the  seed 
of  Abraham)  who  were  led  out  of  Egypt 
by  mighty  power.  The  Lord  wrought 
wonders  in  their  behalf.  He  inspired 
Moses  to  lead  the  people  along  so  that 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


they  could  see  the  face  of  God,  that 
they  could  have  the  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood continued  among  them,  and  be- 
come a  nation  of  kings  and  priests;  but 
they  were  hard  in  their  hearts  and  re- 
jected the  word  of  God.  The  result  was 
that  for  forty  years  they  wandered  in 
the  wilderness,  and  all  that  generation 
were  buried  in  the  wilderness,  except 
two  men.  Two  men  only  out  of  the  vast 
host  that  left  Egvpt  under  the  leader- 
ship of  Moses,  ever  reached  the  prom- 
ised land,  and  they  were  Caleb  and 
Joshua.  The  Lord  had  a  new  genera- 
tion. The  fathers  had  rejected  Him, 
and  He  took  the  Melchisedek  Priesthood 
from  their  midst,  with  Moses,  and  He 
gave  unto  them  the  lesser  Priesthood, 
which  was  confirmed  upon  Aaron  and 
his  seed.  They  administered  the  law 
of  carnal  commandments.  And  this  be- 
cause they  did  not  have  faith  enough 
to  receive  all  that  Moses<  was  willing  to 
teach  them! 

Shall  we  be  in  the  same  condition? 
Shall  we,  through  hardness  of  heart  and 
disobedience  to  God  and  His  servants, 
bring  upon  ourselves  the  same  penalty? 
I  do  not  believe  we  will.  I  am  sure  we 
will  not  reject  the  Melchisedek  Priest- 
hood, its  power  and  its>  ordinances.  But 
I  do  fear  that  we  will  defer  the  redemp- 
tion of  Zion  indefinitely  through  our 
unwillingness  to  do  the  things  that  God 
requires  at  our  hands.  I  have  not  an 
earthly  doubt  that  this  revelation  given 
in  1834  would  have  been  fulfilled  to  the 
very  letter,  had  our  people  obeyed  the 
Lord  as  He  desired;  neither  do  I  be- 
lieve now  that  the  redemption  of  Zion 
will  be  long  deferred  if  the  people  will 
obey  the  Lord  and  keep  His  command- 
ments. But  the  difficulty  is,  our 
hearts  are  hard  and  almost  impenetra- 
ble, in  many  instances.  Here  President 
Snow  has  been  preaching  for  four 
months  now  in  relation  to  the  payment 
of  tithing;  he  has  been  laboring  with  all 
his  might,  to  the  astonishment  of  all 
those  who  know  his  age;  and  yet  he 
cannot  rest — he  has  to  here  preach  it 
again,  because  he  feels  that  the  people 
need  to  be  stirred  up.  I  tell  you  that 
all  that  is  not  for  nothing.  I  tell  you 
that  the  man  of  God  is  not  aroused  and 
inspired  for  nothing.  There  is  a  mean- 
ing to  it.    And  I  feel  that  great  con- 


demnation—such condemnation  proba- 
bly as  has  never  rested  upon  us  before, 
will  rest  upon  this  people  unless  they 
obey  with  all  their  hearts  the  words  of 
the  Lord  that  He  has  given  to  us 
through  His  servant. 

We  need  to  be  born  again,  and  have 
new  hearts  put  in  us.  There  is  too 
much  of  the  old  leaven  about  us.  We 
are  not  born  again  as  we  should  be.  Do 
you  not  believe  that  we  ought  to  be 
born  again?  Do  you  not  believe  that 
we  should  become  new  creatures  in 
Christ  Jesus,  under  the  influence  of  the 
Gospel?  All  will  say,  yes,  who  under- 
stand the  Gospel.  You  must  be  born 
again.  Tou  must  have  new  desires, 
new  hearts,  so  to  speak,  in  you.  But 
what  do  we  see?  We  see  men  following 
the  ways  of  the  world  just  as  much  as 
though  they  made  no  pretensions  to  be- 
ing Latter-day  Saints.  Hundreds  of 
people  who  are  called  Latter-day 
Saints  you  could  not  distinguish  from 
the  world.  They  have  the  same  desires, 
the  same  feelings,  the  same  aspirations, 
the  same  passions  as  the  rest  of  the 
world.  Is  this  how  God  wants  us  to  be? 
No;  He  wants  us  to  have  new  hearts, 
new  desires.  He  wants  us  to  be  a 
changed  people  when  we  embrace  His 
Gospel,  and  to  be  animated  by  entirely 
new  motives,  and  have  a  faith  that  will 
lay  hold  of  the  promises  of  God.  But 
the  trouble  is,  the  Prophets  of  God  walk 
around  among  you,  and  you  see  them 
ah  the  time.  "Why,  I  saw  Lorenzo 
Snow  today,  and  he  is  just  like  any 
other  man.  I  saw  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and 
if  I  had  not  known,  I  might  have  taken 
him  for  anyone  else.  I  saw  some  of 
the  Apostles,  and  they  are  like  other 
men."  And  because  they  are  like  other 
men,  therefore  they  must  be  rejected. 
It  is  not  supposed  that  they  have  more 
power  than  others.  That  is  a  mistake 
that  the  world  has  always  made.  There 
was  Moses,  one  of  the  mightiest  Pro- 
phets that  ever  lived.  Did  the  children 
of  Israel  see  anything  particularly 
mighty  in  Moses?  No;  he  was  one  of 
them,  and  they  saw  nothing 'exceptional 
about  him.  Then  there  was  Nephi,  an- 
other mighty  Prophet.  Brother  Grant 
read  to  us  a  description  of  him.  Did 
Nephi's  brethren  see  anything  mighty 
in  him?    Why,  no;  there  was  nothing 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


51 


to  distinguish  him  particularly;  and  yet 
he  was  a  mighty  Prophet  whom  God 
had  raised  up.  So  it  was  with  the  Son 
of  God  Himself,  the  mightiest  being 
that  ever  trod  the  earth.  He  descended 
from  the  throne  of  His  Father  and 
came  to  earth;  but  men  saw  nothing  in 
Him  different  to  other  men,  and  they 
crucified  Him.  Thus  it  has  been  in 
every  age.  There  have  only  been  a  few 
who  have  ever  discovered  the  power  of 
God  as  manifested  through  His  serv- 
ants. It  is  so  today.  Who  recognized 
Joseph  Smith  as  one  of  the  mightiest 
Prophet©  that  ever  lived?  Why,  the 
Saints  themselves  received  with  reluct- 
ance the  truths  he  taught;  and  men 
slew  him,  and  may  possibly  have 
thought  they  were  doing  God's  service 
in  doing  so.  So  it  has  been  with  those 
who  have  followed  him  and  have  held 
the  keys  of  authority.  They  have 
passed  among  their  fellow  men  and  re- 
ceived but  little  recognition.  Men 
could  see  all  their  faults  and  failings, 
and  could  talk  about  them  one  to  an- 
other; but  they  could  not  see  the 
divinity  in  them.  It  is  the  same  with 
the  servants  of  God  in  our  midst  today. 
They  are  but  mortal  men,  and  we  see 
their  weaknesses  and  their  defects  of 
character.  These  become  magnified  in 
our  e3res,  and  we  talk  freely  about 
them.  The  result  is,  we  receive  their 
words  with  reluctance;  we  question  the 
word  of  God  that  comes  through  them, 
and  wonder  if  it  is  not  alloyed  with 
something  of  their  own. 

What  we  all  need  is  faith— faith  in 
God,  faith  to  believe  that  which  He 
tells  us.  Here  the  brethren  have  been 
laboring  for  days  to  tell  us  what  bles- 
sings will  attend  obedience  to  the  law 
of  tithing— how  our  storehouses  will  be 
filled,  our  fields  be  fertile,  etc.,  in  this 
way  appealing  to  our  selfishness.  We 
seem  to  be  able  to  reach  the  people 
better  by  appealing  to  their  selfish  in- 
stincts. If  we  can  make  them  believe 
that  they  are  going  to  get  something 
in  return  for  what  they  do,  it  seems  to 
be  more  effective  than  any  other  way. 
It  is  true  that  these  blessings  will  fol- 
low; but  it  shows,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  how  our  hearts  have  to  be 
reached.  We  do  not  have  faith.  If 
we  had  faith  as  we  should  have,  it 
would  not  be  necessary  to  use  sueh 


arguments.  We  are  like  the  children  of 
Israel  when  they  fled  out  of  Egypt. 
They  did  not  have  faith.  They  were 
enveloped  in  the  traditions  of  their 
fathers.  They  were  an  adolatrous  peo- 
ple, and  had  lived  among  the  Egyptians 
until  they  had  imbibed  many  of  their 
false  notions.  It  took  forty  years  wan- 
dering in  the  wilderness  to  get  rid  of 
the  traditions  they  had  imbibed,  not- 
withstanding the  mighty  works  which 
God  did  in  their  midst.  We  should  en- 
deavor to  profit  by  the  lessons  of  the 
past.  Let  us  put  away  our  hardness  of 
heart.  Let  us  be  a  distinct  people.  Let 
us  try  to  realize  that  we  should  be 
born  of  God;  that  we  should  have  new 
desires  in  our  hearts;  that  we  should 
put  away  everything  that  is  offensive 
in  the  sight  of  God,  and  endeavor  to 
live  in  strict  conformity  to  the  laws 
and  commandments  that  He  has  given 
unto  us.  There  is  a  class  of  people  in 
our  midst  that  probably  will  not  be 
obedient.  We  shall  have  that  to  con- 
tend with  as  long  as  Satan  is  unbound; 
for  he  has  power  over  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men.  But  we  should  en- 
deavor to  lessen  his  power  to  the  ex- 
tent of  our  ability. 

In  this  connection  a  great  deal  de- 
pends upon  the  parents.  My  parents 
were  exceedingly  strict  in  exacting 
obedience  from  their  children.  The  les- 
sons I  learned  in  my  boyhood  I  have 
never  forgotten.  They  have  been  of 
service  to  me  in  my  labors  among  the 
people  and  with  the  servants  of  God. 
I  do  not  wish  to  say  anything  of  a 
boastful  nature,  but  I  never  have  had 
the  least  difficulty  thus  far  in  my  life 
in  obeying  the  servants  of  God.  This 
habit  of  obedience  was  formed  in  me 
when  I  was  a  child,  and  I  have  thanked 
God  many  times  that  my  parents  were 
so  determined  that  their  children 
should  be  obedient  to  them.  As  a  re- 
sult of  their  training,  it  has  been  no 
trouble  to  me  to  come  or  to  go,  to  do 
this  or  that,  at  the  request  of  the  serv- 
ants of  God.  Yet  those  who  know  me 
regard  me,  no  doubt,  as  a  man  who 
likes  his  own  way.  That  is  my  nature. 
It  is  a  pleasure  to  me  to  have  my  own 
way.  I  am  positive  in  my  nature.  But 
it  has  also  been  a  pleasure  to  me  to 
obey  the  servants  of  God.  I  say  to 
my    folks    that    that  is  the  way  we 


52 


GENERAL  CONFEREE  C E. 


should  raise  our  children.  They  should 
be  made  to  do  that  which  is  required 
of  them.  If  the  Latter-day  Saints  as 
a  people  would  enforce  obedience  in 
the  home,  our  children  would  grow  up 
and  become  men  and  women  who  would 
obey  God,  who  would  listen  to  His 
word,  and  be  as  strict  in  observing  it 
as  they  had  been  to  obey  the  word  of 
their  parents.  But  instead  of  that  you 
see  the  rudeness  of  some  of  our  child- 
ren. The  manner  in  which  they  con- 
duct themselves  at  times  is  disgrace- 
ful. I  feel  mortified  occasionally  at 
the  behavior  of  our  children.  There 
will  be  a  meeting  here  tonight  of  the 
Sunday  school  workers,  and  we  shall 
be  under  the  necessity  of  having  police- 
men, if  we  can  obtain  them,  to  main- 
tain order  outside  the  building  and  to 
prevent  the  meeting  being  disturbed 
by  the  boisterous  conduct  of  a  class 
of  boys  and  girls.  This  is  one  of  the 
things  we  should  attend  to. 

I  feel  to  say  that  all  the  evils  we 
suffer  from  are  due  to  our  disobedience 
and  hardness  of  heart.  The  persecu- 
tions that  we  have  endured  are  trace- 
able to  this.  Our  future  persecutions 
will  be  attributable  to  the  same  cause. 
Therefore  how  necessary  it  is  that  we 
should  train  our  children  to  be  obedient 
to  authority.  If  we  will  do  this,  it 
will  be  an  easy  thing  for  them  to  obey 
when  they  are  men  and  women.  A 
girl  thus  trained  makes  a  good  wife. 
A  boy  thus  trained  makes  a  good  hus- 
band. Send  him  on  a  mission,  and  the 
presiding  authority  there  will  see  the 
difference  between  him  and  the  one 
not  trained  in  habits  of  obedience.  I 
have  noticed  it  in  my  experience  in  the 
world.  We  should  think  of  the  future 
of  our  children.  We  should  not  let 
them  have  their  own  way  in  everything. 
They  should  be  taught  that  it  is  not 
right,  but  that  they  should  submit  to 
the  judgment  of  those  who  are  over 
them-  And  we  should  submit  to  the 
will  of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  what- 
ever He  requires  at  our  hands.  If  it 
is  to  give  our  tithing,  all  right.  If  it 
is  to  consecrate,  all  right.  We  should 
have  faith  that  the  Lord  has  power 
to  bless  us  according  to  our  devotion 
and  diligence  in  keeping  His  command- 
ments. 

I  trust  that  what  has  been  said  at 


this  conference  will  not  be  lost  sight 
of  and  forgotten  by  us.  I  want  to  see 
Zion  redeemed.  I  pray  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  Zion.  I  labor  for  it.  It  will  be 
brought  about  by  peaceful  methods. 
Nobody  need  be  afraid  of  the  designs 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  no 
designs  only  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God.  We  have  no  evil  de- 
signs on  anybody.  We  invite  every- 
body to  come  and  partake  of  liberty 
with  us.  We  will  defend  men  of  every 
creed  and  of  every  denomination  in 
their  rights  as  quickly  as  we  will  our 
own  people. 

Joseph  Smith  taught  us  a  lesson  be- 
fore he  died  in  this  respect,  and  it 
should  never  be  forgotten.  It  will 
never  be  by  those  familiar  with  the 
circumstances.  He  invited  men  not  of 
us  to  take  part  in  certain  things,  as 
an  example  of  what  would  be  in  days 
to  come.  They  did  not  belong  to  our 
Church;  I  do  not  know  that  they  be- 
longed to  any  church.  Some  people 
have  found  fault  with  me  because  on 
one  occasion  I  made  a  little  distinc- 
tion between  the  Kingdom  of  God  and* 
the  Church  of  God.  Now,  there  is  a 
distinction,  and  Joseph  Smith  illustrat- 
ed it.  He  showed  us  that  when  the 
Lord's  kingdom  should  be  established, 
people  of  every  creed  and  of  n6  creed 
should  have  perfect  liberty  and  protec- 
tion under  it.  It  will  not  be  for  the 
Latter-day  Saints  alone;  it  will  be  for 
the  orotection  of  the  Church  of  God 
and  every  other  church.  God  does  not 
deprive  men  of  their  agency.  He  lets 
them  worship  according  to  their  con- 
sciences. If  they  want  to  be  Method- 
ists, or  Episcopalians,  or  Catholics,  or 
Agnostics,  or  anything  else,  all  right. 
They  can  follow  Confuscius,  or  they 
can  believe  as  the  Hindoos  do,  or  any- 
thing else,  so  long  as  they  do  not  tres- 
pass upon  the  rights  of  their  neighbors. 
They  cannot  do  that.  They  have  no 
right  to  force  their  belief  on  other  peo- 
ple, or  to  war  on  other  people  because  of 
their  belief.  God  never  did  that.  He  will 
bless  everyone  of  every  creed  who  will 
serve  Him  to  the  best  of  his  ability, 
and  especially  those  who  seek  to  pre- 
serve the  rights  of  their  fellowmen. 
For  God  loves  His  children,  and  He 
wants  them  to  have  their  full  agency. 
Of  coarse,  if  they  rebel  against  Him. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL. 


53 


and  reject  His  laws  and  ordinances, 
they  must  meet  the  penalty.  As  a  peo- 
ple, we  ought  to  feel  the  utmost  kind- 
ness and  to  grant  the  utmost  liberty 
to  everyone.  We  exhibited  that  feeling 
when  we  first  came  to  this  valley.  In 
1849,  when  the  emigration  came  through 
here  to  California,  I  well  remember 
how  many  preachers  were  invited  to 
speak  in  our  old  Tabernacle  on  the 
corner  of  this  block,  because  President 
Young  said  he  wanted  the  people  to 
hear  these  men  and  their  views.  For 
years  this  was  done.  Prominent  min- 
isters were  invited  to  speak  to  us.  I 
remember  Methodist  Bishops  and  oth- 
ers preaching  to  us  in  this  Tabernacle. 
Why?  Because  we  were  willing  to  ex- 
tend liberty  to  everybody.  In  return, 
we  ask  that  they  will  not  trespass  upon 
us.  We  think  we  have  a  right  to  wor- 
ship God  in  our  own  way,  and  w©  try 
to  worship  Him  in  that  way  which  will 
be  acceptable  to  Him. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  ask  God 
to  bless  you — bless  you  in  your  families 
and  in  everything  pertaining  to  you. 
Let  us  labor  continually  for  the  re- 
demption of  Zion  and  for  the  time 
when  the  promises  which  God  has 
made  to  Zion  will  be  fulfilled;  that  we 
may  build  the  centre  Stake  of  Zion, 
and  rear  the  house  of  the  Lord  there. 
There  are  men  standing  in  this  genera- 
tion that  will  see  it  accomplished;  but 
we  do  not  want  it  put  off  to  the  very 
last.  Let  us  all  strive  to  fit  and  qualify 
ourselves  and  our  families,  by  obeying 
the  commandments  of  God  to  the  full- 
est extent,  so  that  we  and  our  families 
may  be  remembered  among  those  who 
shall  be  counted  worthy  to  take  part  in 
the  glorious  work  of  redeeming  Zion 
and  enjoying  the  blessings  thereof, 
which  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  J.  G.  KIMBALL. 

Carrying  the  Gospel  to  the  Nations- The  Duty  of 
the  Seventy. 

I  am  very  desirous  that  I  may  have 
your  attention  as  well  as  your  faith 
and  prayers  for  a  short  time.  I  am 
able  to  testify  to  the  truth  of  all  that 
has  been  spoken  unto  yon  during  this 
conference.   I  believe  with  all  my  heart 


in  the  temporal  salvation  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  I  believe  that  the  Lord  will  deliver 
us  from  our  troubles  and  difficulties  if 
we  will  observe  all  His  words.  I  am 
also  very  deeply  interested  In  the  spirit- 
ual salvation  of  the  children  of  men.  I 
believe  that  that  angel  which  John  saw 
flying  in  the  midst  of  Heaven  with 
the  everlasting  Gospel  to  preach  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  peo- 
ple, came  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  delivered  his  message,  and  that  a 
great  responsibility  rests  upon  the 
Church  today  to  see  to  it  that  this  mes- 
sage is  delivered  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  As  has  been  stated,  there  are 
doubtless  between  seventeen  and  eigh- 
teen hundred  missionaries  throughout 
the  world  preaching  the  Gospel.  In  my 
opinion,  not  less  than  five  hundred 
thousand  dollars  is  spent  each  year  in 
sending  out  our  Elders,  in  distributing 
books  and  tracts  and  in  preaching  the 
Gospel  throughout  the  world. 

I  desire  to  speak,  if  I  can  have  the 
spirit  of  my  calling,  more  particularly 
to  the  Seventies  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ.  The  special  calling  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  is  as  witnesses  of 
the  Lord  to  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve  Apos- 
tles. There  are  something  like  one 
hundred  and  twenty-two  quorums  of 
Seventy  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
numbering  nearly  eight  thousand  men. 
Over  each  quorum  there  are  seven  Pres- 
idents, the  Lord  having  arranged  it  so 
that  six  of  them  can  go  on  missions, 
and  always  leave  one  to  look  after  the 
remainder.  And  in  my  opinion  there 
should  not  be  very  many  remaining  to 
look  after. 

I  want  to  read  from  the  book  of  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  and  ascertain 
what  the  Lord  has  to  say  about  the 
Seventies.  You  will  have  to  excuse  me 
for  occupying  the  time  in  talking  about 
the  Seventies,  for  our  labor  among 
them  puts  me  a  good  deal  in  mind  of 
the  Filipinos.  They  shoot  and  then 
run,  and  that  is  about  the  way  we 
have  been  doing.  We  would  have  a 
little  time  between  meetings  to  talk 
to  our  Seventies;  then  we  would  shoot 
and  run  and  never  ascertain  whether 
we  had  killed  any  one  or  not— that  is 


54 


GENERAL  COISiFEREISi CE. 


metaphorically  speaking-.  "We  did  not 
know  whether  we  had  any  good  effect 
on  our  Seventies  or  not.  I  believe  that 
our  Seventies  are  not  doing  their  work 
as  they  should  do  it.  I  know  you  Seven- 
ties will  not  like  it,  and  it  will  not 
make  me  popular  with  you,  but  I  de- 
sire to  say  that  there  is  a  percentage 
of  the  Seventies  than  whom  there  are 
no  more  faithful  men  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  But 
the  other  percentage  I  have  not  much 
to  say  about.  This  is  what  the  Lord 
says: 

"And  it  is  according  to  the  vision, 
showing  the  order  of  the  Seventy,  that 
they  should  have  seven  Presidents  to 
preside  over  them,  chosen  out  of  the 
number  of  the  Seventy. 

"And  the  seventh  President  of  these 
Presidents  is  to  preside  over  the  six; 

"And  these  seven  Presidents  are  to 
choose  other  Seventy  besides  the  First 
Seventy,  to  whom  they  belong,  and 
are  to  preside  over  them; 

"And  also  other  Seventy,  until  seven 
times  Seventy,  if  the  labor  in  the  vine- 
yard of  necessity  requires  it. 

"And  these  Seventy  are  to  be  travel- 
ing ministers  unto  the  Gentiles  first, 
and  also  unto  the  Jews; 

"Whereas  other  officers  of  the  Church, 
who  belong  not  unto  the  Twelve, 
neither  to  the  Seventy,  are  not  under 
the  responsibility  to  travel  among  all 
nations,  but  are  to  travel  as  their  cir- 
cumstances shall  allow,  notwithstand- 
ing they  may  hold  as  high  and  respon- 
sible offices  in  the  Church. 

"Wherefore  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved,  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand.  Even  so.  Amen." 

I  want  to  ask  the  Latter-day  Saints 
if  they  have  ever  heard  of  a  Seventy 
being  handled  that  is  slothful  and  care- 
less regarding  his  duties.  I  have  heard 
of  men  being  handled  who  waded  out 
into  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom  and 
commenced  advocating  false  doctrine. 
One  brother  asked  me  the  other  day  if 
I  had  ever  heard  of  a  man  being  han- 
dled for  not  knowing  anything,  and  I 
could  not  remember  a  single  case  of 
that  kind  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 
I  want  to  say  to  the  Seventies,  the  High 
Priests  and  the  Elders,  that  I  do  not 
believe  the  Lord  is  well  pleased  with 
the  children  of  men  in  that  they  do 
not  qualify  themselves  and  learn  their 
duty  and  perform  the  labor  that  rests 


upon  them.    I  desire  to  proclaim  from 
this  stand  that,  as  a  Seventy  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  as  a  witness  of  the  Lord  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  I  am  willing1  to 
go  forth  and  cry  aloud  to  the  children 
of  men  repentance,  and  I  ask  no  Sev- 
enty to  do  what  I  am  not  willing  to  do 
myself.     I  have  the  faith  to  testify, 
and  am  willing  to>  do  so,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  God,  notwith- 
standing it  is  unpopular  to  do  this.  I 
consider  that  Elder  Ben  E.  Rich  and 
Elder   Kelsch   and   other   Elders  that 
have  been  appointed  to  labor  in  the 
ministry  have  never  had  conferred  up- 
on them  greater  blessings  and  honors 
in  all  their  history.    They  are  honored 
of  God,  and  if  they  have  the  spirit  of 
God  resting  upon  them,  which  they  do 
have,  they  will  be  sorrowful  when  they 
are  released  from  that  labor,  and  when 
they  have  to  come  back  and  go  to  their 
little  plodding  along,  hunting  their  lit- 
tle farm  and  getting  a  little  work  to  do. 
I  read  in  the  scriptures  that  some  one 
says  that  he  would  rather  be  a  living 
dog  than  a  dead  lion.    So  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  I  would  rather  be  a  dead 
lion.     I  would  rather  go    forth  and 
preach  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  and  I  want  to  do  it  while  I  am 
young  and  full  of  vigor  and  life.  When 
I  get  old  I  will  come  back  and  go  into 
the  High  Priests'  quorum  and  labor, 
while  some  other  young  men  preach  the 
Gospel.     I  believe  that  the  Seventies 
quorums  ought  to  be  made  up  of  young 
men.    The  saying  is  "Old    men  for 
counsel  and  young  men  for  war,"  and 
this  is  a  warfare.    If  we  do  not  kill 
anybody,  everybody  wars  upon  us.  I 
believe  that  aged  men  ought  to  go  into 
the  High  Priests'  quorum.    I  want  to 
say  it  right  from  this  stand,  so  that 
when  they  call  upon  us  for  mission- 
aries, we  will  have  able-bodied  men 
and  men  who  are  willing  to  go  forth 
and  preach  the  Gospel.  We  do  not  want 
any  Seventies  that  are  run  by  their 
wives  either.   I  do  not  blame  the  wiv  ■ 
for  running  their  husbands,  because  I 
think   we   have   Seventies   that  their 
wives  ought  to  run.    I  hear  it  almost 
every  day  (I  do  not  want  you  to  think 
it  at  home  either)  "What  a  lovely  hus- 
band that  man  is.    If  I  only  had  a 
husband  like  that  I  would  be  happy." 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


5  5 


I  ask  what  kind  of  a  husband  he  is. 
"Well,  he  shakes  the  quilts,  he  puts 
the  carpets  down,  he  helps  wash  the 
dishes,  he  helps  dress  the  children," 
etc.  Well,  if  it  takes  all  that  to  make 
a  good  man,  you  cannot  count  me  in 
among  them.  I  would  rather  go  on  a 
mission,  and  I  would  rather  stay  and 
die  with  my  neck  in  the  collar.  I 
think  it  is  honorable  to  do  these  things 
when  you  are  at  home,  but  if  I  have 
to  do  them,  I  want  to  stay  at  home 
but  a  very  little  while.  I  do  not  be- 
lieve that  God  gave  a  man  the  Holy 
Melchisedek  Priesthood  and  ordained 
him  a  Seventy  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  to  be  tagging  after  one  little 
woman  and  spending  his  whole  life  in 
that  way.  That  is  what  I  want  to  say 
to  you  Seventies;  I  have  said  it  and  I 
don't  propose  to  take  it  back.  The  Lord 
bless  you.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 

Light  and  Truth. 
Benediction   by  Elder   P.    S.  Bram- 
well. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  at  2  p.  m.  Elder  M.  W. 
Merrill  presiding. 

Opening  hymn  page  79,  sung  by  the 
congregation,  "Glorious  Things  are 
Sung  of  Zion." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Chris- 
tian D.  Pjeldsted. 

"I  know  that  My  Redeemer  Lives," 
was  sung  by  the  Temple  choir. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  you 
will  give  me  your  faith  and  attention, 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  rest 
upon  me,  that  we  may  be  edified  to- 
gether. 

The  solemnity  of  these  great  gather- 
ings and  the  spirit  thereof  that  has 
Beemed  to  fill  every  breast,  causing  us 
to  come  together,  and  the  words  of  in- 
spiration to  which  we  have  listened 
during  this  conference,  have  given  me 


food  for  reflection,  a  little  deeper,  I 
think,  than  I  have  ever  had  before.  It 
has  aroused  within  me  a  new  determi- 
nation and  a  resolve,  the  Lord  being 
my  helper,  to  assist  you  and  to  ask 
you  to  assist  me,  as  a  band  of  brethren 
and  sisters,  as  servants  and  hand- 
maidens of  the  Lord,  to  be  more  faith- 
ful in  the  future  than  we  have  been 
in  the  past. 

The  Lord  has  been  with  this  people. 
We  have  gathered  to  this  goodly  land, 
notwithstanding  the  displeasure  of  the 
Lord  in  His  judgments  which  He  meted 
out  to  His  Church  in  the  days  when 
they  were  inhabitants  of  the  States  of 
Missouri  and  Illinois;  although,  in  the 
beginning  of  their  settlement  in  those 
States,  the  Lord  was  with  them,  and 
His  Spirit,  to  a  very  great  degree,  in- 
spired the  leaders  of  the  people  and 
inspired  many  of  the  Saints  to  hearken 
to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 
But  it  was  with  the  Saints  as  it  was 
with  the  Nephites  and  Lamanites  in  the 
days  when  they  inhabited  this  land. 
There  were  times  when  the  people  were 
full  of  faith  and  good  works  and  were 
earnest  in  keeping  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord,  and  then  there  were  times 
when  the  Nephites  and  Lamanites 
dwindled  into  unbelief  and  grew  covet- 
ous and  selfish  and  became  lifted  up 
in  the  pride  of  their  hearts,  and,  finally, 
the  favor  of  the  Lord  was  withdrawn 
from  them,  and  they  wandered  in  dark- 
ness and  unbelief  until  the  judgments 
of  the  Lord  awakened  them  again  to 
a  sense  of  their  fallen  condition,  which 
occurred  many  times,  as  we  are  in- 
formed by  the  history  of  that  people. 
Now,  the  Lord  decreed,  through  His 
servants,  the  Nephite  Prophets,  that 
the  people  who  inhabited  this  land 
should  serve  Him  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments, or  they  should  not  pros- 
per in  the  land. 

Reference  was  made  today  by  our 
Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  Lorenzo 
Snow,  to  the  judgments  of  the  Lord 
that  came  upon  the  people  in  the  Stat* 
of  Missouri,  in  Jackson  County,  in  1833. 
The  Saints  were  driven  from  their 
homes  and  stripped  of  their  possessions, 
not  because  they  were  the  most  wicked 
people  upon  the  face  of  the  land,  nor 
because  the  Lord  had  cast  them  off 
forever,  but  because  He  was  reminding 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


them  of  the  covenants  they  were  under 
and  the  necessity  of    their  keeping 
them.    He  was  reminding  them,  I  say, 
of  these  truths,  by  these  chastisements 
which  He  had  permitted  to  come  upon 
them,  renewing  their  faith  and  con- 
fidence in  Him  and  humbling  them  be- 
fore Him  that  He  might  again  bless 
them  and  pour  out  upon  them  blessings 
and  favors  which  he  had  in  store  for 
His  faithful  children.    And  truly,  as 
President    Cannon    reminded    us,  the 
revelation   of  the  Lord,   in  1834,  was 
given    through    the    Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,   saying  that  inasmuch  as  the 
people  had  been  chastened  and  had  re- 
pented, the  Lord  was  willing  to  accept 
of  their  repentance,  if  they  would  turn 
unto  Him  with  full  purpose  of  heart 
and  serve  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments.     Now,    although    they  were 
awakened  from  their  slothful  condition 
and  were   caused   to  repent  of  their 
former  neglect  and  sins,  through  the 
grace  and  favor  of  the  Lord,  after  hav- 
ing been  chastened  sufficiently,  yet  we 
are  informed  that  they  again  became 
slothful  and  careless  and  failed  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  and, 
finally,  He  permitted  their  enemies  to 
drive  them  from  the  State  of  Missouri 
to  Illinois,  where  they  built  a  city  under 
the   direction   of   the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,    in    Hancock    County,  called 
Nauvoo,  or  Commerce.   Here  the  Saints 
prospered  for  a  little  season,  although 
the  land  upon  which  they  had  settled 
was  unhealthy  and  malarial.  Malarial 
fever  seized  the  Saints  in  Nauvoo  and 
in  Montrose,  situated  just  across  the 
river,   and   they  suffered   very  sorely 
from  sickness  and  disease  of  a  dread- 
ful nature  for  a  number  of  months 
after  settling  in  that  place.    To  such 
an  extent  did  they  suffer  that  the  Lord 
was  moved  to  compassion  on  account  of 
their  condition,  and  He  whispered  to 
His  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  called 
some  of  his  valiant  brethren  around 
him  and  went  from  house  to  house  in 
Commerce,  or  Nauvoo,  and  in  Mont- 
rose, administering  to  the  Saints  and 
commanding  them  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  arise  from  their  beds  of  afflic- 
tion and  walk  and  be  made  whole. 
Wherever  they  went  and  these  com- 
mands were  given  in  the  homes  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  they  were  obeyed, 


and  the  sick  were  healed  instantly. 

I  cite  this  to  show  that  notwithstand- 
ing the  displeasure  of  the  Lord  and 
these  judgments  which  He  had  per- 
mitted to  come  upon  His  people,  He 
was  very  merciful  unto  them  whenever 
they  would  humble  themselves  before 
Him,  promising  that  they  would  strive 
to  serve  Him.  He  was  willing  to  return 
unto  them  if  they  would  return  unto 
Him,  according  to  the  words  of  the 
Prophet  Malachi. 

The  trials  of  the  Saints  in  the  city  of 
Nauvoo  seemed  to  have  culminated  into 
the  greatest  sorrow  they  had  ever  ex- 
perienced. It  was  heaped  upon  them  in 
the  martrydom  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum,  in 
Carthage  jail,  in  1844.  I  say,  this  seem- 
ed like  the  culminating  sorrow  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  no  one  need  sup 
pose,  however,  that  it  was  because  of 
transgression  that  these  two  great  men 
fell  under  the  hands  of  a  guilty  mob. 
These  great  men  were  born  to  a  divine 
mission,  even  as  our  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Elder  Brother,  and  when 
that  mission  was  completed  on  the 
earth,  the  Lord  had  decreed  that  they 
should  seal  their  testimonies  with  their 
blood.  They  never  shrank  from  its  ful- 
fillment, knowing  that  this  was  the  de- 
cree of  the  Lord,  and  knowing  also  that 
they  were  going  to  their  death  when 
they  left  the  city  of  Nauvoo.  The  Pro- 
phet turned  to  his  traveling  compan- 
ions and  said:  "I  am  going  like  a  lamb 
to  the  slaughter,  but  I  am  calm  as  a 
summer  morning.  I  have  a  conscience 
void  of  offence  toward  God  and  toward 
all  men.  If  they  take  my  life,  I  shall 
die  an  innocent  man,  and  my  blood 
shall  cry  from  the  ground  for  ven- 
geance, and  it  shall  yet  be  said  of  me, 
'He  was  murdered  in  cold  blood.'  " 

Shortly  after  the  death  of  the  Pro- 
phet, the  Lord  declared,  through  Brig- 
ham  Young — and  I  am  Inclined  to  be- 
lieve that  here  again  it  was  necessary 
to  awaken  the  people,  who,  from  their 
sorrow,  had  fallen  almost  into  a  condi- 
tion of  lethargy — the  Lord  declared 
through  Brigham  Young,  the  leader  of 
the  Church  then,  and  the  successor  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  unless 
the  brethren  and  sisters  laid  hold  of 

the  work  again  in  prosecuting  their 

labors  upon  the  Temple  in  Nauvoo, 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


51 


and  finished  it,  that  it  might  be  dedi- 
cated to  the  Lord,  they  would  be  cut 
off  with  their  dead.  This  aroused  the 
Saints  again  to  a  sense  of  their  duty 
to  God  and  His  cause,  and  they  went 
to  with  their  might,  with  their  faith 
and  works,  never  ceasing  until  they  had 
completed  that  house  and  dedicated  it, 
renewing,  under  the  direction  of  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young,  the  ordinances  of 
God's  holy  house  and  Temple,  for  the 
redemption  of  the  living  and  the  dead. 

We  came  to  this  land  of  the  west,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains,  "Willing,  because  we  were 
obliged  to,"  as  President  George  A. 
Smith  used  to  say.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
said  that  the  Saints  should  be  driven 
to  the  west,  even  to  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains, and  that  many  then  living  would 
yet  go  to  the  Rocky  Mountain  valleys, 
and  that  there  the  Saints  should  plant 
their  feet  and  grow  to  become  a  great 
and  mighty  people.  We  have  seen  the 
fulfillment  of  this  great  prediction, 
thus  far,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
today  we  are  brought  face  to  face  with 
living  truths. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  laid  down  his 
life  because  God  decreed  that  it  should 
be  so,  and  He  permitted  him  and  his 
brother  Hyrum  to  be  martyred  for  the 
cause  of  truth.  Again  a  Prophet  was 
selected  by  the  power  of  Almighty  God 
and  placed  to  lead  the  people,  in  the 
person  of  Brigham  Young.  After  the 
Prophet  Brigham's  demise  another  Pro- 
phet was  raised  up  by  the  power  of 
revelation  from  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  he,  too,  stood  as  the  leader 
of  Israel  all  the  remaining  days  of  his 
life,  never  flinching,  never  swerving 
from  any  duty  laid  before  him,  stand- 
ing in  the  majesty  of  his  calling  to 
promulgate  to  the  people  the  word  of 
the  Lord;  and  so  it  was  when  President 
John  Taylor  passed  away.  It  was  so 
with  President  Wilford  Woodruff,  who 
succeeded  to  that  prophetic  ministry, 
to  lead  and  guide  Israel  and  to  declare 
unto  them  the  mind  and  will  of  the 
Lord.  And  now  another  Prophet  stands 
with  the  same  keys  of  authority,  with 
the  same  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
resting  upon  him.  And  so  it  is  today. 
Our  Prophet,  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord, 
the  Prophet  of  the  Mighty  God  of  Ja- 
cob, Lorenzo  Snow,  declares  unto  us  as 


a  congregation  today,  as  the  congrega- 
tion of  Israel  everywhere,  he  declares 
unto  us,  as  our  spokesman,  as  the 
spokesman  of  the  Lord,  that  it  Is  neces- 
sary for  us  to  reform  in  our  lives. 
These  are  the  conditions  that  confront 
us  today,  the  time  when  we  are  to 
observe  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
and  accept  of  the  word  of  the  Lord  as 
given  through  His  servant  the  Pro- 
phet. We  could  bring  up  by  referring 
to  the  history  of  God's  people,  both  in 
ancient  and  modern  times,  year  after 
year,  and  decade  after  decade,  in- 
stances to  show  that  the  Lord  has  min- 
istered unto  His  children  when  they 
have  entered  into  covenants  with  Him 
and  have  kept  those  covenants,  and 
He  has  blessed  them  abundantly  from 
time  to  time;  then  again,  at  times,  He 
has  brought  upon  them  His  judgments, 
showing  His  displeasure  unto  them  for 
not  keeping  His  commandments  as  they 
should  have  done.  Then  they  have  re- 
pented, and  again  the  clouds  of  dark- 
ness and  persecution  have  lifted,  and 
the  Saints  made  to  rejoice  in  the  sun- 
beams, in  the  light  of  God's  favor  and 
countenance,  after  the  dark  clouds  have 
passed. 

We  are  a  blessed  people.  We  have 
our  homes  here  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  which  is  the  land  of  Joseph, 
the  land  of  Zion,  dedicated  centuries 
ago  by  the  Prophets  of  the  living  God 
to  be  the  land  of  Joseph,  whereon  Zion 
should  be  established  in  the  latter  days, 
even  the  New  Jerusalem,  that  is  to  be 
built  up  here,  as  foreseen  by  the  Pro- 
phets of  the  Nephite  nations.  At  the 
present  time  we  are  living  in  that  day 
and  age  of  the  world  when  these  pre- 
dictions are  to  be  literally  fulfilled.  If 
the  Lord  can  have  His  way,  for  He 
said,  on  one  occasion,  to  the  Saints 
while  they  were  in  the  State  of  Mis- 
souri, and  since  their  expulsion  from 
that  state,  that  Zion  could  be  redeemed 
today,  it  could  have  been  redeemed  be- 
fore today,  if  His  people  were  ready 
for  this  redemption.  Therefore,  this 
proves  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
beyond  the  power  of  contradiction,  that 
the  Lord  is  ready  to  redeem  Zion  and 
to  make  His  people  a  great  power,  and 
the  head  and  front  in  the  earth, 
through  His  grace,  whenever  they  are 
prepared  for  it. 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  was  very  much  impressed  by  the  re- 
marks of  Apostle  Woodruff  in  regard  to 
the  reclamation  of  lands  and  the  tak- 
ing of  farms,  utilizing  these  beautiful 
lands  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains 
for  the  Saints  and  their  children  and 
making  homes  for  themselves  and  be- 
coming owners  of  the  soil  upon  which 
the  Lord  has  so  mercifully  planted  Hi3 
people. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  attended  the  Na- 
tional Irrigation  Congress,  at  Missoula, 
Mont.  The  State  of  Utah  was  there 
honored  to  a  very  great  degree.  The 
members  of  the  congress  and  those  who 
attended  knew  that  Utah  was  the  lead- 
er, the  educator,  in  irrigation  and  in 
the  redeeming  arid  lands;  conse- 
quently, they  looked  to  the  delegates 
from  Utah  to  say  something  to  them  in 
regard  to  the  methods  of  reclaiming 
the  arid  lands  of  this  state,  and  our 
methods  of  colonizing.  In  the  territory 
of  Arizona  alone,  where  a  few  of  our 
people  have  settled  and  where  four 
Stakes  of  Zion  have  been  organized, 
there  are  many  hundreds  of  thousands, 
and  possibly  several  million,  acres  of 
land  lying  idle,  ready  for  the  labor  of 
the  husbandman.  All  it  needs  is  the 
aid  and  help  of  the  general  government 
to  assist  us  in  getting  water  onto  that 
desert  land,  by  impounding  the  streams 
and  floods  during  high  water  season,  In 
the  spring,  for  use  during  the  dry  sea- 
son. The  Irrigation  Congress  hopes  to 
obtain  this  aid  from  the  government 
in  the  near  future,  in  order  to  bring 
this  land  into  a  condition  that  the 
farmers  may  possess  it  and  make  them- 
selves homes.  This  land  lies  in  the 
great  orange  belt,  and  there  is  no  better 
soil  or  climate  for  the  production  of  all 
the  tropical  fruits  than  this  now  arid 
land  in  Arizona,  which  is  lying  idle, 
numbering  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
acres,  waiting  for  the  water  to  be 
turned  onto  it. 

The  Lord  brought  His  people  here 
for  a  purpose,  and  that  purpose  was 
that  they  might  more  faithfully  serve 
Him  than  they  could  have  done  In  the 
land  from  which  they  were  expelled; 
also  for  the  purpose  of  redeeming  this 
barren  waste,  which  had  to  be  re- 
deemed and  which  needed  the  power  of 
God  to  do  it,  manifested  through  His 
devoted  servants,  who    would  devote 


their  lives,  time  and  talents  to  the  re- 
demption of  this  soil  that  was  so  sterile 
and  forbidding  in  its  appearance  when 
the  pioneers  landed  upon  it.  The  Lord 
knew  the  character  of  the  men  whom 
He  had  appointed  for  this  work,  and 
He  loved  them;  and  His  people  have 
gathered  here  with  the  pioneers  by  the 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands,  from 
all  nations,  and  from  the  isles  of  the 
sea,  and  they  have  come  here  with  the 
desire  and  intention  of  serving  the 
Lord,  through  His  grace  and  favor. 
They  dedicated  to  the  Lord  the  land, 
the  water,  the  elements,  and  everything 
surrounding  them,  in  order  that  His 
blessings  might  be  upon  them  and 
their  labors,  and  upon  the  soil,  and  the 
Lord  has  indeed  blessed  His  people. 

Now  we  are  confronted  with  another 
fact:  That  we  have  been  negligent  in 
paying  our  tithes  and  offerings  to  the 
Lord.  How  soon  we  forget!  How  easy 
it  is  for  man  to  sin,  even  'As  the  spark* 
fly  upward,"  as  King  Solomon  said. 
Man  is  prone  to  do  evil  and  to  forget. 
We  are  apt  to  forget  the  blessings  we 
are  in  possession  of,  and  to  forget  the 
Giver.  When  we  entered  into  the 
Church  of  Christ  we  covenanted  with 
God,  the  Eternal  Father,  that  we  would 
keep  His  commandments  and  serve 
Him,  that  we  would  accent  of  His 
truths  as  revealed  through  His  Pro- 
phets, and  that  we  would  not  only  enter 
into  the  waters  of  baptism  as  humble 
children  and  have  our  sins  washed 
away  and  covenant  with  the  Lord  to 
be  His  faithful  children  ever  after,  in 
spirit  and  in  truth,  but  that  we  would 
accede  to  Him  all  He  required  of  us 
in  our  temporal  affairs,  and  to  give 
unto  Him  a  goodly  portion  of  that 
which  we  possessed,  in  return  for  His 
many  blessings,  that  we  would  be  faith- 
ful in  paying  our  tithes  and  offerings. 
But  we  have  drifted  along,  year  after 
year,  and  today  we  are  confronted  with 
the  fact  that  we  have  not  half  paid  our 
tithing,  that  there  is  not  more  than 
25  per  cent  of  the  people  that  belong  to 
the  Church  of  Christ  today  who  are 
honest  tithe  payers. 

In  one  prominent  Stake  of  Zion, 
where  a  conference  was  recently  held, 
under  the  direction  of  President  Snow, 
I  heard  that  not  more  than  15  per  cent 
of  the  members  of  that  whole  Stake 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 


59 


were  tithe  payers.  This  is  the  condi- 
tion we  are  found  to  be  in  today,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  the  Prophet 
of  the  Lord  has  said  for  us  to  repent 
of  our  sins  and  turn  away  from  oui 
evil  doings  and  neglect  and  from  our 
covetousness,  and  to  come  near  unto 
the  Lord,  with  full  purpose  of  heart, 
to  serve  Him  and  keep  His  command- 
ments, to  "return  unto  the  Lord,"  ac- 
cording to  the  words  of  the  Prophet 
Malachi,  "and  He  will  return  unto  you." 
But  if  we  do  not  return  to  the  Lord  the 
consequence  will  be  most  serious  and 
disastrous  to  the  Saints.  Never  in  my 
life  have  I  heard  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  stand  before  the  people  and  say 
in  such  plainness  that  it  was  time  for 
us  to  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord  and 
keep  His  commandments  more  fully, 
for  us  to  repent  and  turn  unto  Him.  I 
have  observed  that  where  the  people  of 
the  Lord  have  failed  to  hearken  to  this 
word  and  to  repent  of  their  backsliding 
and  to  turn  unto  the  Lord  with  full 
purpose  of  heart,  the  judgments  of  the 
Lord  have  come  upon  them,  in  every  in- 
stance. Now,  it  is  time  for  us  to  lis- 
ten and  hearken  to  the  words  of  the 
Lord,  delivered  unto  us  by  His  Prophet, 
In  regard  to  the  payment  of  our  tith- 
ing. 

In  the  northern  part  of  this  State,  in 
the  Malad  valley,  we  have  an  Indian 
colony.  It  is  the  best  Indian  colony, 
I  think,  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  to- 
day. It  is  the  largest  colony  that  I 
know  anything  about  that  is  under  the 
direction  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  num- 
bering about  250  people,  organized  un- 
der a  Bishop,  who  presides  over  them 
as  any  other  Bishop  would  over  the 
white  people.  They  have  their  Sunday 
school  and  Mutual  Improvement  or- 
ganizations, etc.,  and  they  go  to  their 
meetings  regularly  and  attend  to  their 
duties  very  well  indeed  for  a  people 
taken  from  such  a  low  condition,  who 
were  so  ignorant  in  the  beginning. 
They  are  making  strides  in  improve- 
ment. A  few  years  ago  they  began  to 
farm  their  land,  which  they  had  home- 
steaded,  under  the  direction  of  the 
Bishop  and  those  who  presided  over 
them.  They  now  possess  and  live  up- 
on their  own  lands  and  work  it  as  the 
white  man  does.  They  sow  their  own 
grain  and  harvest  and  thresh  it  the 


same  as  the  white  man,  owning  their 
threshing  machines  and  harvesting  im- 
plements. They  sell  their  grain  and 
lucern  seed  when  threshed,  and  squan- 
der the  proceeds,  because  their  white 
brothers  set  them  bad  examples. 

If  these  Indians  would  save  and  store 
up  their  grain,  not  wasting  or 
squandering  it,  they  would  be  much 
better  off.  But  their  Bishop  has  warn- 
ed, instructed  and  counseled  them  with 
regard  to  this,  and  now  they  are  suffer- 
ing for  their  disobedience  in  not  listen- 
ing to  the  counsel  of  those  placed  in 
authority  over  them.  Last  year  they 
had  an  abundance  of  grain  and  lucern, 
and  they  sold  it  all  for  whatever  price 
they  could  get.  But  this  year  has  been 
one  of  disaster  to  them.  Their  harvests 
utterly  failed  this  year,  through  drouth. 
They  lost  all  their  fall  wheat  and 
lucern  seed  through  early  and  late 
frosts  and  the  lack  of  moisture,  and 
now  they  are  almost  without  the  means 
of  sustaining  the  colony  until  another 
harvest.  But  they  are  a  resolute  and 
patient  people,  and  when  their  crops 
fail  them,  as  at  the  present  time,  they 
go  out  upon  the  plains  and  into  the 
mountains  and  hunt  for  a  living,  kill- 
ing deer  and  dressing  their  skins  and 
making  gloves  and  moccasins  to  take 
to  the  towns  and  cities  to  sell  to  the 
white  people.  They  also  gather  wool 
from  the  sage-bush  and  other  vegeta- 
tion, where  it  has  been  deposited  by  the 
sheep  in  traveling  through  the  coun- 
try, to  and  from  their  winter  and  sum- 
mer ranges.  By  this  means  they  man- 
age to  eke  out  an  existence  and  save 
themselves  from  starvation,  when  their 
crops  fail.  They  are  patient  under 
these  terrible  ordeals,  and  I  sometimes 
think  they  are  more  patient  than  their 
white  brethren  would  be.  Bishop 
Moroni  Ward  presides  over  the  colony. 
A  man  more  fitted  for  the  position 
could  probably  not  be  found  in  Israel. 
He  is  a  father  to  his  people,  and  a  bles- 
sing to  them.  A  delegation  of  their 
chief  men  waited  upon  him  not  long 
ago.  They  said,  "We  have  lost  all  our 
crops.  We  have  no  wheat  or  lucern 
seed,  or  means  of  gaining  food  and  the 
necessaries  of  life,  because  the  soil  has 
not  yielded  anything  for  us.  Now  what 
is  the  reason?"  "Well,  brethren,"  the 
Bishop  said,  "have  you  prayed  in  your 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


families  mornings  and  evenings?" 
"No."  "Did  you  attend  fast  meetings 
on  fast  days  and  bring  something  for 
the  poor?"  "No."  "Have  any  of  you 
drunk  a  little  whiskey  during  the  past 
year  and  wasted  your  money  in  drink?" 
"Yes."  "Have  you  smoked  tobacco  and 
wasted  your  money  in  procuring  this 
poisonous  weed?"  "Yes."  "What  have 
you  not  done  then?"  They  acknow- 
ledged that  they  had  done  many  things 
they  ought  not  to  have  done.  "Then," 
said  the  Bishop,  "can  you  expect  the 
Lord  to  do  all  for  you  when  you  do 
nothing  for  yourselves?"  So  they  went 
away  satisfied,  vowing  within  them- 
selves, no  doubt,  as  they  frequently  do, 
to  do  better.  They  promised  the  Bishop 
that  they  would  try  to  reform  and  do 
better,  that  they  would  try  to  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  and  sustain 
and  uphold  him  as  their  Bishop,  and 
to  hearken  to  the  words  of  counsel 
given  to  them. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  to- 
day that  there  is  a  man  of  God  stand- 
ing at  the  head  of  this  people.  I  bear 
witness  to  you  that  President  Snow  is 
a  chosen  servant  of  the  Lord,  for  the 
will  of  the  Lord  is  again  made  known 
through  him,  and  the  Lord  has  called 
upon  us,  through  him,  to  repent  of  our 
sins,  our  backsliding  and  neglect,  and 
to  pay  an  honest  tithing  from  this  time 
henceforth  and  forever,  that  we  may 
be  indeed  the  people  of  God,  and  that 
this  land  may  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto 
us  and  unto  our  children,  to  the  last 
generation  of  time.  For,  let  me  assure 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  if 
an  honest  tithing  was  paid  from  all  the 
forty  thousand  families  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  as  they  exist  today  in  their 
prosperous  condition,  in  all  this  western 
land,  a  very  large  amount  would  come 
into  the  treasury  of  the  Lord's  store- 
house each  year,  and  we  would  soon  be 
the  wealthiest  people  on  the  face  of  the 
earth.  I  say  this  would  have  been  tht 
condition  had  the  Saints  all  been  pay- 
ing an  honest  tithing.  But  the  past 
shall  be  the  past,  the  Lord  has  declared, 
and  our  sins  in  this  matter,  of  the  past, 
will  be  forgiven,  provided  we  will  begin 
from  this  time  to  be  faithful  servants 
and  handmaidens  of  the  Lord.  That  we 
may  redeem  ourselves  from  the  fall  and 
from  our  own  sins.    For  I  declare  unto 


you  today  that  the  Lord  has  living  Pro- 
phets and  Apostles,  and  His  words  are 
given  to  us  all  the  day  long.  Let  us 
profit  by  them. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  enable 
you  to  live  according  to  the  glorious 
principles  of  the  Gospel  as  revealed  to 
us  of  the  Lord  through  His  Prophets, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Sister  Emma  Ramsay  sang  the  song, 
"Come  all  Ye  Sons  of  Zion,"  chorus  by 
the  choir. 

The  congregation  then  unanimously 
sustained,  by  vote,  all  the  general 
authorities  of  the  Church,  and  of  vari- 
ous organizations  thereof  as  their 
names  were  presented  by  Elder  Mat- 
thias F.  Cowley. 

ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  arising  to 
address  you  for  a  few  minutes,  I  trust 
that  I  may  ,be  guided  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  that  I  may  be  led  to  say 
something  that  will  benefit  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  are  here  present  and 
build  us  up  in  our  faith. 

I  will  read  the  21st  verse  of  the  14th 
chapter  of  the  Gospel  according  to  St. 
John: 

"He  that  hath  my  commandments, 
and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth 
me;  and  he  that  loveth  me  shall  be 
loved  of  my  Father,  and  I  will  love  him, 
and  will  manifest  myself  to  him." 

This  promise  holds  good  in  our  day 
and  time,  although  it  was  uttered  many 
centuries  ago.  Still,  we  profess  to  have 
the  same  authority  as  the  disciples  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  same 
Gospel  as  preached  by  them,  even  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation.  This  be- 
ing the  case,  there  is  no  Latter-day 
Saint,  no  matter  what  degree  of  Priest- 
hood he  may  hold,  no  matter  what  his 
standing  may  be,  if  he  be  in  the  Church 
of  Christ  and  is  faithful  and  keeps  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  but  what 
has  this  promise  vouchsafed  unto  him: 
That  the  Father  will  manifest  Himsett 
to  him;  and  this  can  be  done  in  a  very 
great  variety  of  ways. 

I  believe  that  there  is  no  Latter-day 
Saint,  that  has  any  interest  in  the 
Church  of  Christ,  but  what  has  been 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


61 


led  to  marvel  at  the  peculiar  workings 
of  destiny  in  connection  with  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  as  a  people.  There  is 
no  one  that  has  been  an  observer  of 
the  history  of  this  people  that  can  help 
but  acknowledge  that  there  is  some- 
thing supernatural  or  superhuman  con- 
nected with  the  development  of  the  lat- 
ter-day work.  In  every  instance  where 
the  people  have  observed  certain  com- 
mandments given  to  them,  they  have 
always  received  the  promises  connected 
therewith,  and  where  they  have  not 
kept  those  commandments,  God  has 
poured  out  His  judgments  upon  them 
for  their  disobedience.  Every  Latter- 
day  Saint  should  be  interested  in  the 
work  of  the  Lord  and  seek  to  obtain  for 
himself  or  herself  a  testimony  concern- 
ing this  work,  for  the  evidences  of  its 
divinity  are  so  abundant  that  if  we 
strive  to  any  degree  at  all  to  know  of 
the  truthfulness  of  this  great  latter-day 
work,  we  may  know  whether  or  not  it 
is  of  God  or  of  man.  Sometimes  we 
may  ask  ourselves  the  question,  Is 
Lorenzo  Snow  a  Prophet  of  the  Living 
God?  Is  he  the  mouthpiece  of  God 
upon  the  earth?  Do  we  believe  it?  Do 
we  believe  that  he  is  authorized  to  say 
"Thus  sayeth  the  Lord?"  I  believe  and 
know  that  he  is  and  that  he  possesses 
all  the  authority  necessary  to  consti- 
tute him  the  mouthpiece  of  the  Lord 
upon  the  earth.  If  we  believe  this  we 
will  be  very  anxious  to  follow  his  teach- 
ings, and  we  will  be  very  anxious  to 
be  connected  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  we  may  know  and  that 
God  the  Eternal  Father  may  know 
which  master  we  list  to  obey,  for  we 
have  been  told  that  his  servants  are 
we  whom  we  list  to  obey.  If  we  list  to 
obey  God  the  Eternal  Father  we  will  be 
His  servants,  and  we  will  be  desirous 
for  the  establishment  of  the  work  of 
the  Lord  upon  the  earth  and  to  see  it 
grow  and  increase,  and  we  will  love 
righteousness  and  hate  iniquity. 

As  Latter-day  Saints,  I  feel  that  we 
ought  to  stand  closely  together  in  this 
day  and  time  when  it  appears  as 
though  persecution  would  again  be 
waged  against  us.  It  is  a  warning  to 
us  to  stand  more  closely  together.  We 
ought  to  be  a  people  who  believe  in 
supporting  one  another  and  the  king- 


dom of  God.  We  ought  not,  as  we  have 
done  in  the  past  in  many  instances, 
furnish  the  gold  and  silver  to  forge  the 
instruments  that  are  aimed  at  our  lives, 
the  lives  of  this  people,  as  a  com- 
munity. Very  often  we  have,  through 
our  patronage  and  support,  built  up 
men  and  institutions  that  have  after- 
wards used  every  means  in  sending  ou1 
falsehoods  regarding  this  people,  and 
that  have  done  everything  they  could 
to  bring  persecution  upon  the  Saints.  I 
feel  this  is  wrong,  that  we  ought  not  to 
do  it.  I  think  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  as  a  rule,  do  not  fully  compre- 
hend .  what  they  are  doing  in  this  re- 
gard. It  is  true  that  we  desire  to  do 
business  with  all  honorable  men.  But 
I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
that  if  this  people  would  withdraw  their 
support  from  those  men,  institutions 
and  agencies,  and  from  those  papery 
that  send  out  falsehoods  about  this  peo- 
ple and  the  citizens  of  this  state,  they 
would  not  be  able  to  live.  It  is  the 
support  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
give  these  agencies  that  maintains 
them.  Therefore,  I  say  that  we  feed 
the  instruments  that  are  intended  to 
be  used  against  us,  and  that  are  used 
against  us.  I  think  we  should  reflect 
more  upon  these  things.  In  many  of 
our  settlements  the  Saints  have  given 
their  patronage  and  support  to  men 
who  have  come  into  their  midst  and 
fleeced  them,  and  who  have  then  turned 
around  and  used  those  very  means 
against  them.  This  should  be  a  warn- 
ing to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  they 
ought  to  try  and  support  themselves 
and  their  own  institutions,  to  build  up 
one  another  and  be  more  united  in  the 
future  than  they  have  been  in  the 
past. 

I  feel  anxiously  engaged  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  I  desire  above  all  things 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth  to  enjoy  the 
spirit  of  the  Apostleship  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  that  I  might  labor  for 
the  bringing  about  of  the  salvation  of 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  God  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  This  is  the  work  of 
God,  the  Eternal  Father.  It  is  not  the 
work  of  man,  and  we  do  not  need  to  be 
very  much  concerned  with  regard  to 
the  outcome  of  this  people.  We  need 
not  be  agitated  on  account  of  the  efforts 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


being  made  for  their  overthrow.  If  we 
do  our  duty  as  individuals  the  Lord  will 
take  care  of  the  rest.  We  have  had  no 
occasion  in  the  past  to  worry  regard- 
ing the  final  outcome  of  this  com- 
munity. The  Lord  has  always  brought 
to  naught  the  plans  that  have  been  laid 
and  devised  for  the  destruction  of  this 
people  by  our  enemies,  and  He  will  do 
the  same  in  the  future,  if  we  will  hold 
together  and  not  allow  ourselves  to  be 
led  off  and  to  mix  up  too  much  with 
our  enemies.  Of  course,  we  welcome  all 
good  citizens.  "We  love  all  good  citizens 
in  this  city  and  state  and  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth,  who  delight  in  telling 
the  truth,  but  we  have  not  yet  learned 
to  love  those  that  tell  falsehoods  and 
that  seek  to  destroy  our  influence  in  the 
nation.  I  suppose  we  ought  to  love 
them,  according  to  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  we  have  not  per- 
fected ourselves  to  that  degree  yet. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  you  and  to  teach 
us  and  fill  us  with  His  Holy  Spirit  con- 
tinually, that  we  may  so  live,  by  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  that  we  may  ever  know 
for  ourselves,  whenever  anything  is  en- 
acted for  the  Church  as  a  whole, 
whether  it  is  of  the  Lord  or  not,  and 
not  set  up  our  own  ideas  against  the 
plans  of  the  Lord.  It  is  the  right  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint,  who  is  living  in 
accordance  to  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  to  know  of  the  truthfulness, 
correctness  and  righteousness  of  every 
enactment  that  is  made  by  the  Church 
of  Christ,  for  we  believe  in  revelation. 
We  believe  that  God  will  manifest  these 
things  unto  us,  not  simply  to  those  who 
etand  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  but 
to  all  the  members  of  the  Church  of 
Christ.  It  is  our  privilege  to  know  and 
understand  whether  anything  that  is 
done  by  the  Church  is  right  or  not,  if 
we  are  living  in  accordance  with  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you,  and  may 
He  fill  our  hearts  with  His  peace.  May 
we  realize  more  in  the  future  than  we 
have  ever  done  in  the  past  the  neces- 
sity of  laboring  continually  for  the  es- 
tablishment of  righteousness  and  the 
building  up  of  God's  kingdom  and  work 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  May  we  so 
live  that  we  may  share  in  the  blessings 
which   God  the  Eternal    Father  has 


promised  to  those  that  love  Him  and 
keep  His  commandments.  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  you 
will  not  get  weary,  and  that  you  will 
sustain  me  by  your  faith  and  prayers 
while  I  occupy  a  few  minutes  of  the 
time.  I  would  also  like  for  you  to  sus- 
tain me  by  your  faith  and  prayers  every 
day  in  the  future,  and  in  return  I  will 
endeavor  to  sustain  you  by  my  faith 
and  prayers  and  by  such  exertion  as 
the  gifts  and  blessings  of  the  Almighty 
to  me  shall  enable  me  to  be  of  benefit 
and  profit  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  is  of  very  little  use  to  bear  testi- 
mony that  we  know  that  the  Gospel  is 
true  unless  we  exemplifiy  that  testi- 
mony in  our  daily  walk  and  conversa- 
tion. The  best  evidence  which  we  can 
g-ive  to  the  Lord  that  we  are  convinced 
that  President  Snow  is  a  Prophet  of 
God  is  that  we  shall  heed  the  coun- 
sel which  has  been  given  through  him 
to  this  people,  and  pay  our  tithing,  thus 
testifying  by  our  works  that  we  do  sus- 
tain President  Lorenzo  Snow  as  the 
mouthpiece  of  God  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

There  is  a  statement  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  having  a  bearing  upon 
those  who  are  sent  out  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  and  it  applies  to  those  who 
preach  the  Gospel  at  home,  not  only  as 
missionaries  bearing  offices  as  general 
authorities  of  the  Church,  but  it  applies 
to  every  Bishop  and  Elder  in  Israel, 
and  to  the  Seventies  and  Presidents  of 
Seventies,  to  the  lesser  Priesthood  and 
all  who  administer  in  the  various  of- 
fices assigned  unto  them.  It  is  this: 
"Treasure  up  in  your  minds  continu- 
ally the  words  of  life,  and  it  shall  be 
given  you  in  the  very  hour  that  por- 
tion that  shall  be  meted  unto  every 
man."  It  is  not  for  the  purpose  of 
dwelling  upon  this  quotation  that  I 
read  it,  but  to  call  your  attention  to 
another  matter:  It  is  the  duty  of  the 
servants  and  handmaidens  of  the  Lord, 
who  constitute  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to  treas- 
ure up  the  words  of  eternal  life,  and 
then,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty administer  that  portion  of  the 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRbFF. 


63 


word  of  God  that  is  especially  adapted 
to  the  wants  of  the  people  on  the  occa- 
sion, it  is  also  the  duty  of  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  to  know  what  is  the  mat- 
ter with  himself  or  herself  and  to  know 
exactly  wherein  they  have  come  short 
in  keeping-  and  observing-  the  command- 
ments of  God.  I  will  venture  to  say 
that  the  instructions  of  this  conference 
are  applicable,  to  a  greater  or  less  de- 
gree, to  every  individual,  male  or  fe- 
male, who  has  been  in  attendance  at 
this  conference.  It  is  the  duty  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  take  to  themselves 
that  portion  of  the  word  of  God  which 
is-  applicable  unto  them,  or  which  they 
have  not  fully  exemplified  by  their  con- 
duct and  lives  heretofore,  and  make  a 
distinct  and  personal  application  of  the 
tame  to  themselves  in  the  future.  If 
there  is  any  one  here  who  has  exempli- 
fied these  instructions  fully,  who  has 
not  been  derelict  in  his  or  her  duty, 
having  fulfilled  it  to-  the  fullest  ex- 
tent, taking  into  consideration  every  in- 
junction of  the  Gospel  and  every  re- 
quirement of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  please  hold  up 
your  right  hand.  I  would  like  to  see 
you.  And  I  presume  we  are  all  a  little 
derelict  and  that  there  is  a  necessity 
for  a  reformation  upon  our  part. 

It  is  certainly  unnecessary  for  us  to 
rehearse  this  afternoon  the  promises 
extended  to  those  that  are  faithful,  un- 
to those  who  are  diligent  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  God,  and  the  great 
disadvantages  and  the  disapproval  of 
Heaven  if  we  keep  not  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord.  We  must  remember 
that  we  have  taken  upon  us  the  most 
solemn  obligations  that  were  ever  as- 
sumed by  men  and  women  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth.  This  is  the  great  and 
last  dispensation,  a  dispensation  in 
which  is  comprehended  all  the  keys, 
blessings  and  powers  and  every  meas- 
ure of  divine  authority  which  has  been 
enjoyed  by  any  and  all  previous  dis- 
pensations of  the  Gospel,  from  father 
Adam  down  to  the  present  period  of 
time.  Upon  our  shoulders  rest  the  re- 
sponsibilities of  all  these  dispensations 
combined  together,  as  it  were.  It  is 
the  dispensation  of  the  fullness  of 
times.  We  have  made  sacred  coven- 
ants, in  sacred  places,  and  those  coven- 
ants mean  something.  When  the  Lord 
revealed  them  through  His  servant,  the 


Prophet  Joseph,  as  applying  to  this  dis- 
pensation, it  was  designed  that  they 
should  be  attended,  when  strictly  ob- 
served, by  the  blessings  and  power  of 
Almighty  God,  and  it  was  designed  that 
if  those  sacred  covenants  should  be 
violated  and  trampled  in  the  dust  of 
the  earth,  God  would  not  be  mocked, 
and  that  His  judgments  would  come 
upon  His  people  unless  they  exemplified 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  in  their 
daily  walk  and  conversation.  Now, 
these  things,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
have  been  brought  to  the  attention  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  the  instruc- 
tions of  this  general  conference.  Let 
us  reflect  upon  them.  Let  every  man 
and  woman  ask  himself  or  herself  the 
question,  Where  have  I  been  derelict? 
In  what  duty  have  I  been  neglectful? 
Can  I  improve?  And  then  let  us  con- 
sider the  instructions  given  at  this  con- 
ference, and  especially  that  portion 
that  would  be  applicable  to  us  indi- 
vidually. Let  us  go  forth  from  this 
time  and  pay  our  tithes  and  offerings, 
and  consecrate  as  much  of  our  pro- 
perty to  the  cause  of  God,  to  the  liqui- 
dating of  the  debts  and  obligations  of 
this  Church,  as  is  possible  for  us.  I 
say  to  you  that  it  is  the  easiest  way  to 
secure  the  blessings  and  protection  of 
Almighty  God.  The  Prophet  of  the 
Lord  has  said  to  us  more  than  once, 
since  he  received  the  manifestation  in 
the  city  of  St.  George,  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  must  pay  their  tithing  or 
they  shall  not  be  entitled  to  the  bles- 
sings of  the  house  of  the  Lord,  and 
shall  be  subject  to  the  persecution  and 
tyranny  of  their  enemies.  He  has  also 
said  to  us  more  than  once  that  if  we 
would  pay  our  tithing  as  we  should  the 
Lord  would  bless  us  abundantly, 
spiritually  and  temporally.  I  would 
not  have  you  pay  your  tithing  for  a 
selfish  motive.  I  would  not  desire  to 
pay  my  own  tithing  with  the  idea  in 
view  that  the  Lord  would  enrich  me  in 
a  temporal  capacity.  The  riches  of  this 
earth  are  not  the  choicest  the  Lord  has 
to  bestow.  He  may  bestow  them  upon 
us,  and  they  are  necessary  for  the  pro- 
motion of  the  work  of  God,  in  a  ma- 
terial sense,  but  the  choicest  blessing 
that  comes  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  is 
the  rich  and  choice  inspiration  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  to  enlighten  our  minds  up- 
on the  things  of  God  and  to  give  us  an 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Influence  among  the  children  of  men 
that  will  enable  us  to  verify  the  injunc- 
tion of  the  Savior  when  He  said,  "Let 
your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that 
they  may  see  your  good  works,  and 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in 
Heaven."  These  are  the  choicest  bles- 
sings, my  brethren  and  sisters. 

Let  me  encourage  you  to  make  a 
more  earnest  effort  to  enlist  your  young 
people  in  the  work  of  Mutual  Improve- 
ment and  Sabbath  School  work,  and 
to  get  them  to  take  advantage  of  the 
opportunities  that  are  afforded  them  in 
the  Gospel,  that  our  sons  and  daughters 
may  be  efficient  in  proclaiming  the 
Gospel,  both  at  home  and  abroad. 
There  is  a  great  necessity  for  this. 

I  must  not  occupy  your  time  much 
longer.  It  is  nearly  up.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
may  we  go  forth  from  this  conference, 
to  the  various  Stakes  of  Zion  where 
v  e  reside,  and  to  our  various  labors, 
and  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  with 
the  spirit  of  this  conference,  dissemi- 
nating it  among  the  people  of  God  and 
among  the  peoples  of  this  earth. 

I  bear  to  you  my  testimony  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the 
living  God.  I  bear  testimony  to  you 
that  the  Father,  the  Almighty,  and  His 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  presented  themselves 
to  that  boy  Prophet  in  this  dispensa- 
tion. I  bear  to  you  my  testimony  that 
he  received  the  keys  of  the  gathering 
of  the  house  of  Israel,  from  the  hands 
of  the  Prophet  Moses,  that  he  received 
the  keys  for  the  building  of  temples 
and  the  redemption  of  the  dead,  from 
the  Prophet  Elijah,  who  appeared  per- 
sonally to  him  and  restored  those  keys. 
I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  the  great 
Prince  Michael,  the  Archangel,  has  de- 
livered to  him  the  keys  connecting,  by 
genealogy,  the  generations  of  men,  and 
binding  them  together  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  from  the  beginning  down 
to  the  latest  period  of  time,  in  this  dis- 
pensation. These  keys  have  been  re- 
stored to  the  earth.  I  rejoice  in  the 
Gospel.  I  am  under  obligations  to  the 
Almighty,  and  I  feel  my  obligations  to 
Him.  God  has  always  given  me  some- 
thing to  do  and  has  opened  up  the  way 
before  me  and  shown  me  what  my 
calling  was.  I  want  to  say  to  the  young 
men  in  Israel,  if  you  are  laboring  in 
any  doubt  as  to  what  you  should  do  in 


life,  go  to  God  in  prayer  and  ask  Him 
what  you  should  do,  and  let  Him  guide 
you  by  His  Spirit,  and  He  will  do  it. 
We  are  the  people  of  God,  and  He  has 
promised  to  hear  and  answer  our  pray- 
ers. I  want  to  admonish  you  to  resnp*»*. 
the  principles  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
no  matter  what  they  are,  no  matter  if 
they  be  the  principles  that  are  as- 
saulted by  our  enemies.  They  are  the 
principles  of  eternal  truth,  and  God  has 
revealed  and  established  them  upon 
the  earth,  and  He  will  maintain  them, 
and  Zion  will  be  established,  and  the 
kingdom  of  God  will  grow  in  power, 
and  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  be  pre- 
pared for  the  coming  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  and  His  reign  upon  the  earth. 

These  are  my  testimonies.  May  God 
bless  you,  is  my  prayer,  In  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER    MARRINER    W.  MERRILL. 

There  is  one  subject  to  which  I  wish 
to  briefly  refer.  I  wish  to  call  your  at- 
tention to  your  temple  work.  This  is 
a  very  important  consideration,  or 
should  be,  in  our  lives  and  in  our  home 
affairs.  Let  us  contemplate  it.  Thous- 
ands, and  I  might  say  millions,  of  dol- 
lars have  been  expended  by  this  people, 
through  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  in  building  temples.  We  have 
four  in  this  State.  They  are  convenient 
to  a  great  majority  of  the  people  of  the 
Church,  not  only  in  this  State,  but  in 
the  surrounding  States.  Now,  we  must 
all  remember,  that  a  hundred  years 
hence,  in  all  probability,  every  one  of 
us  will  be  on  the  other  side  of  the  veil, 
and  we  have  kindred  there,  fathers  and 
mothers,  grand-fathers  and  grand- 
mothers, and  great  grand-fathers  and 
great  grand-mothers.  A  great  many 
of  our  kindred  have  left  this  existence, 
any  many  of  them  without  a  knowledge 
of  the  Gospel,  perhaps  the  majority  of 
them.  We  are  here  as  their  children, 
and  they  have  an  interest  in  us  and  we 
have  an  interest  in  them,  because  the 
keys  have  been  revealed  whereby  the 
hearts  of  the  children  are  turned  to 
the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children.  Those  keys 
and  powers  have  been  revealed  in  our 
day  and  time,  and  we  now  have  op- 
portunities, while  in  life,  to  prosecute 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


63 


this  labor  in  their  behalf  and  to  ex- 
tend to  our  kindred  beyond  the  veil  the 
greatest  redeeming-  plan  of  salvation. 
The  opportunity  is  now  afforded  us. 
Opportunities  are  also  continually  open- 
ing before  us,  whereby  our  genealo- 
gies may  be  obtained.  I  have  learn- 
ed, through  experience,  that  people  who 
have  an  interest  in  their  temple  work, 
records  and  genealogies,  obtain  those 
genealogical  records,  to  a  great  extent. 
Some  people  spend  hundreds  of  dollars, 
perhaps  thousands  of  dollars,  in  trav- 
eling and  gathering  up  the  records  of 
their  forefathers,  while  others  are  in- 
different in  this  regard,  and  scarcely 
think  of  it  from  one  year's  end  to  an- 
other. We  are  not  going  to  live  for- 
ever, none  of  us.  We  may  pass  away 
any  moment.  I  have  known  of  many 
instances  of  this  kind,  where  people 
have  put  off  from  time  to  time  and  from 
year  to  year,  their  work  in  behalf  of 
some  of  their  kindred  dead,  and  have 
finally  passed  away  themselves  without 
doing  this  work.  I  know  of  such  cases 
in  Salt  Lake  City  and  all  over  the 
country.  Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  do 
not  forget  this  labor.  Do  not  put  it  off 
until  you  are  entirely  ready,  because,  if 
you  do,  perhaps  you  will  not  get  ready 
at  all.  Your  way  may  be  hedged  up,  for 
Satan  is  on  the  move  and  is  looking  into 
our  affairs  continually  and  he  may 
hedge  up  our  way,  wherever  the  oppor- 
tunity is  afforded  him,  that  we  shall  not 
be  able  to  redeem  our  kindred  dead. 
Therefore,  I  wish  to  urge  this  matter 
upon  you.  Tn  the  midst  of  all  our  duties 
and  labor,  let  us  not  forget  our  fathers 
and  mothers,  and  our  kindred  on  the 
other  side  of  the  veil. 

God  bless  you,  and  may  He  lead  us  in 
the  paths  of  life;  that  our  minds  may 
be  stirred  up  by  way  of  remembrance  of 
the  duties  pertaining  to  us  in  this  our 
second  estate. 

The  meeting  was  brought  to  a  close 
by  the  singing  of  the  hymn,  "We  thank 
Thee,  O  God  for  a  Prophet." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Marriner  W. 
Merrill. 


AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 

2  p.m. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
"O  Lord,  how  manifold  are  Thy  works." 

Prayer  by  Elder  Angus  M.  Cannon. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

O,  my  Father,  thou  that  dwellest, 

In  the  high  and  glorious  place, 
When  shall  I  regain  thy  presence, 

And  again  behold  thy  face? 
In  thy  holy  habitation, 

Did  my  spirit  once  reside? 
In  my  first  primeval  childhood, 

Was  I  natured  near  thy  side? 

THE        AUTHORITIES      OF  THE 
CHURCH 

and  those  connected  with  various  or- 
ganizations, were  presented  to  the  Con- 
ference for  the  votes  of  the  assemblage, 
as  follows: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
in  all  the  world. 

George  Q.  Cannon,  as  First  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith  as  Second  Counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Franklin  D.  Richards,  as  President 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles:  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Brigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  George  Teasdale, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  John  W.  Taylor,  Mar- 
riner W.  Merrill,  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham  O.  Wood- 
ruff and  Rudger  Clawson. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as  Pro- 
phets, Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  of  the  Church — John  Smith. 

First  seven  Presidents  of  Seventies — 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 

William  B.  Preston  as  Presiding  Bish- 
op, with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  John  R. 
Winder  as  his  first  and  second  counsel- 
ors. 

Franklin  D.  Richards  as  Church  His- 
torian and  general  Church  recorder, 
with  John  Jaques  and  Andrew  Jenson 
as  his  assistants. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


As  trustee-in-trust  for  the  body  of  re- 
ligious worshippers  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints — Lorenzo  Snow. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
Board  of  Education — Lorenzo  Snow, 
George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
Willard  Young,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James 
Sharp,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  John  Nich- 
olson and  George  H.  Brimhall. 

As  general  Superintendent  of  Church 
Schools  and  Religion  Classes — Karl  G.. 
Maeser. 

As  Secretary  of  General  Church 
Board  of  Education— George  Reynolds. 

As  Members  of  the  Board  of  Examin- 
ers of  Church  School  Teachers — Karl  G\ 
Maeser,  Benjamin  Cluff,  Jr.,  William  J. 
Kerr,  George  H.  Brimhall  and  Joshua 
H.  Paul. 

As  Secretary  of  the  Board  of  Examin- 
ers— John  M.  Mills. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY. 

Zina  D.  H.  Young,  president. 

Jane  S.  Richards,  first  vice-president. 

Bathsheba  W.  Smith,  second  vice- 
president. 

Sarah  J.  Cannon,  third  vice-president. 

Emmeline  B.  Wells,  secretary. 

M.  Isabella  Horne,  treasurer. 

Directors:  Romania  B.  Pratt,  Emelia 
D.  Madsen,  Lucy  S.  Cardon,  Susan 
Grant,  Mary  Pitchforth,  Harriett  M. 
Brown,  Martha  Tonks,  Helena  E.  Mad- 
sen,  Aurilla  Hatch,  Hattie  Brown,  Mar- 
tha B.  Cannon,  Emma  Woodruff,  Julia 
L.  Smith,  Emily  S.  Richards,  Rebecca 
Standring,  Ellis  R.  Shipp,  Julia  P.  M. 
Farnsworth. 
SUNDAY  SCHOOL  AUTHORITIES. 

George  Q.  Cannon,  general  superin- 
tendent. 

Karl  G.  Maeser,  second  assistant  gen- 
eral superintendent. 

George  D.  Pyper,  general  secretary. 

George  Reynolds,  general  treasurer. 

Leo  Hunsaker,  assistant  secretary. 

Members  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board — George  Q.  Can- 
non, Karl  G.  Maeser,  George  Reynolds, 
Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Joseph  W.  Summer- 
hays,  Levi  W.  Richards,  Francis  M. 
Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tan- 
ner, George  Teasdale,  Hugh  J.  Cannon, 
Andrew  Kimball,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
John  W.  Taylor. 

Aids — L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure. 


John  F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  Wil- 
liam B.  Dougall,  William  D.  Owen, 
Seymour  B.  Young. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVE- 
MENT ASSOCIATION. 

Lorenzo  Snow,  general  superinten- 
dent. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  Heber  J.  Grant  and 
B.  H.  Roberts,  assistants. 

Aids — Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry 
Smith,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham  O. 
Woodruff,  J.  G.  Kimball,  Junius  F. 
Wells,  Milton  H.  Hardy,  Rodney  C. 
Badger,  Geo.  H.  Brimhall,  Wiliam  S. 
Burton,  Edward  H.  Anderson,  Douglas 
M.  Todd,  John  E.  Heppler,  Edward  H. 
Snow,  Nephi  L.  Morris,  Richard  W. 
Young,  Horace  G.  Whitney,  Willard 
Done,  LeRoi  C.  Snow,  Frank  Y.  Tay- 
lor. 

Secretary  and  treasurer,  Thomas 
Hull. 

Music  director,  Evan  Stephens. 

YOUNG  LADIES'  MUTUAL  IM- 
PROVEMENT ASSOCIATION. 

EJmina  S.  Taylor,  president. 

Maria  Y.  Dougall,  first  counselor. 

Martha  H.  Tingey,  second  counselor. 

Secretary  and  treasurer,  Annie  M. 
Cannon. 

Corresponding  secretary,  Mae  Taylor. 

Assistant  secretary,  Joan  Campbell. 

Aides — Lilly  T.  Freeze,  Adella  W. 
Eardley,  Sarah  Eddington,  Aggie 
Campbell,  Minnie  J.  Snow,  May  B.  Tal- 
mage,  Emma  Goddard,  Rose  W.  Ben- 
nett, Alice  K.  Smith,  Elizabeth  C.  Mc- 
Cune,  Ruth  M.  Fox,  Julia  A.  Brixen, 
Susa  Y.  Gates,  Helen  W.  Woodruff, 
Augusta  W.  Grant,  Mary  A.  Freeze. 
PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION. 

Louie  B.  Felt,  president. 

Lillie  T.  Freeze,  first  counselor. 

Josephine  R.  West,  second  counselor. 

May  Anderson,  secretary  and  treas- 
urer. 

Olive  Derbidge,  assistant  secretary. 
Euphemia  J.  Irvine,  recording  sec- 
retary. 

Aids — Aurelia  S.  Rogers,  Cornelia  H. 
Clayton,  Lulu  Greene  Richards,  Belle 
S.  Ross,  Julia  I.  McDonald,  S.  E.  Hyde, 
Camilla  C.  Cobb,  Zaidee  Walker. 

John  Nicholson  as  clerk  of  the  Gen- 
eral Conference. 

All  of  the  voting  was  unanimous. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 


67 


Brother  Horace  S.  Ensign  riang  the 
solo,  Jerusalem. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  M'MURRIN. 

Young  Men  should  be  Prepared  for  the  Minittiy— 
Usefulness  of  Musical  Ability. 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in 
standing  before  this  great  assembly 
of  people  that  I  occupy  a  very  respon- 
sible position.  The  words  spoken  by 
Apostle  Merrill  come  home  to  me  with 
considerable  force,  that  when  one 
stands  up  to  claim  the  attention  of  so 
many  people,  he  certainly  needs  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  the 
time  may  be  spent  profitably.  The  time 
of  the  people  should  not  be  wasted 
through  men  speaking  by  their  own 
wisdom  and  without  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord.  I  sincerely  pray  that  that 
spirit  may  direct  me  in  the  few  words 
that  I  speak,  and  that  I  may  have  the 
sympathy  and  the  faith  and  prayers  of 
this  great  congregation  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  the 
meetings  of  this  conference  and  in  the 
glorious  instructions  that  have  been 
given  by  the  serva.nts  of  the  Lord,  as 
they  have  been  moved  upon  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  in  my  heart  there  is  a  re- 
sponse to  the  teachings  that  have  been 
given  by  the  various  speakers,  and 
that  I  feel  in  my  soul  that  I  am  in  full 
accord  with,  the  doctrines  that  have 
been  announced;  that  I  sustain  them, 
and  that  I  can  bear  testimony  to  their 
truth  and  to  their  great  value  to  this 
people.  I  feel  that  there  could  have 
been  no  man  or  woman  attend  the  as- 
semblies of  this  conference  without 
feeling  that  he  or  she  has  received  in- 
structions from  the  Lord,  and  has  come 
away  with  a  determination  to  improve 
in  the  future  with  the  assistance  of 
God.  I  know  my  own  heart  has  had 
feelings  of  this  nature.  I  have  felt 
that  I  would  endeavor  to  do  better, 
that  I  would  pay  attention  to  the  hints 
that  have  been  thrown  out  and  to  the 
doctrines  that  have  been  given  and  try 
to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
more  fully.  There  is  a  splendid  op- 
portunity for  all  Latter-day  Saints  to 
accomplish  a  great  amount  of  good. 
We  heard  here  this  morning  and  we  all 


understand  it,  that  the  responsibility 
of  preaching  this  glorious  Gospel, 
which  has  been  revealed  by  our  Father 
in  Heaven,  rests  upon  this  people,  par- 
ticularly upon  those  who  bear  the 
authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood. 
When  we  think  of  the  vast  field  that 
opens  up  before  us,  of  the  millions  of 
people  who  know  nothing  concerning 
the  glad  news  that  God  has  sent  to  His 
children  on  the  earth,  we  should  be 
anxious  to  qualify  ourselves  for  these 
duties  and  responsibilities. 

I  feel  that  greater  attention  should 
be  •  iven  10  the  young  men  who  are 
growing  up  in  our  midst.  There 
should  be  greater  anxiety  upon  the 
part  of  fathers  and  mothers  and  of 
men  who  are  in  authority,  to  train 
them  u  the  principles  of  the  Gospel, 
that  when  they  leave  their  homes  and 
go  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the 
Gospil,  they  may  be  qualified  for  that 
labor,  thai  none  of  them  may  be  in  the 
condition  of  some  who  have  declared 
that  they  never  studied  the  Gospel, 
that  they  did  not  know  where  to  And 
certain  books  of  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
and  thai  they  had  never  prayed  public 
ly  in  their  lives,  not  even  in  the  family 
circle.  I  rejoice  that  there  are  oppor- 
tunities abounding  on  every  hand,  if 
the  people  will  take  advantage  of  them 
to  educate  their  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and  to 
prepare  them  for  this  serious  responsi- 
bil'ty  thiii  must  come  upon  them  in  the 
future.  We  have  many  schools  organ- 
ized that  are  under  the  control  of  the 
LaLier-day  Saints,  where  the  princi- 
ples that  are  so  dear  to  us  are  taught 
to  the  studerts.  I  feel  that  all  the 
people  should  give  encouragement  to 
ther-o  worthy  institutions.  They  should 
send  their  sons  and  daughters  to  be 
educated  under  the  influence  of  the 
Gospel,  that  they  may  grow  up  with 
an  understanding  of  its  principles  and 
be  capable  of  defending  them  when 
they  go  out  among  the  people.  I  be- 
lieve that  in  one  particular  we  could 
make  very  great  improvement,  and 
that  is  in  a  musical  way.  As  I  listened 
to  the  solo  that  was  rendered  here  this 
afternoon  by  Elder  Ensign,  who  has 
recently  returned  from  missionary  la- 
bor, 1  felt  in  my  heart  that  the  power 
and  ability  that  he  has  in  this  direc- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Lion  has  been  as  of  great  worth  to  him 
in  th^  r.  eaching  of  the  Gospel  as  a 
knowledge  of  the  scriptures.  If  great- 
er attention  were  given  to  this  subject 
of  ih*  iva,ning  of  young  Lnen  and  of 
yriing  women  also,  how  to  sing  the 
tongs  L  i  Zion,  it  would  be  i;f  gr«at 
worth  to  the  missions  to  which  they  go. 
I  think  that  if  Mission  Presidents  who 
are  in  this  congregation  were  asked, 
they  would  bear  testimony  that  ihey 
would  rather  have  men  sent  into  lhe:v 
mi.*sior.s  Avho  could  sing  well  and  who 
could  ti  ach  ethers  to  sing,  even  though 
they  could  not  preach  at  all. 
This  has  been  my  experience  in  the 
European  Mission,  particularly  in 
Great  Britain.  The  young  men  who 
could  sing  the  songs  of  Zion  in  a  prop- 
er and  pleasing  manner  were  always  in 
demand.  They  carried  an  influence  with 
them  that  made  them  welcome  at  the 
homes  of  the  people.  They  attracted 
attention  upon  the  streets  and  they 
found  good  congregations  to  preach  to, 
and  th»  y  v.  ere  able  to  do  a  great  deal 
more  good  through  being  able  to  sing 
well  than  they  otherwise  would  have 
done.  Wonderful  things  can  be  ac- 
complished in  this  direction.  Prof. 
Stephens,  I  believe,  at  times  has  had 
thousands  of  students  under  his  direc- 
tion, training  the  youth  of  this  Stake 
of  Zion  particularly,  to  sing  the  songs 
of  Zion.  Other  musical  directors  could 
follow  this  example.  They  should  per- 
suade young  men  to  join  their  choirs, 
to  form  glee  clubs,  and  to  prepare 
themselVes  in  this  way  to  make  a  good, 
impression  on  the  people  when  they  go 
out  to  preach  the  Gospel. 

I  do  not  feel,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  it  would  be  proper  for  me  to 
occupy  more  of  your  time;  but  I  do  re- 
joice in  this  Gospel.  I  thank  God  with 
all  my  heart  that  I  have  been  born 
and  reared  in  the  midst  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  testify  before  you  that 
this  work  is  of  God;  that  there  is 
power  and  salvation  within  it;  that  it 
has  been  revealed  by  the  God  of  Heav- 
en for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  the 
people.  I  pray  God  that  we  may  be 
stirred  up  as  a  people;  that  we  may 
believe  that  there  is  a  Prophet  in  the 
midst  of  Israel  and  that  the  God  of 
Heaven  has  spoken  to  him  and  has 
commanded  him  to  warn  this  people  of 
the  error  of  their  ways  and  to  point 


out  to  them  the  way  in  which  they 
should  walk,  that  they  may  be  blessed 
of  the  Lord.  Let  us  receive  the  coun- 
sel given;  let  us  believe  the  word  of 
the  Lord;  let  us  sustain  His  servants, 
and  let  us  awake  to  the  responsibilities 
that  rest  upon  us  and  follow  in  that 
straight  path  that  will  bring  us  ever- 
lasting life.  May  God  bless  us  and 
help  us  to  live  aright  all  the  days  of 
our  lives,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

Effectiveness  of  Musical  Ability — The  Efficacy  of 
Prayer — The  Kighteous  have  no  cause  to  Fear 
the  Death  of  the  Body — Spiritual  Death  and 
the  Means  of  Escape  fioin  It — Young  Men 
should  Preserve  Themselves  in  Purity. 

Greatly  to  my  surprise,  I  have  been 
requested  to  occupy  a  few  moments. 
I  need  not  repeat  the  petition  of  my 
brother  who  has  just  sat  down,  that  I 
may  have  the  sympathy  and  the  pray- 
ers of  the  Saints,  for  I  certainly  desire 
and  need  them.  A  certain  incident  was 
brought  forcibly  to  my  mind  while 
Brother  MoMurrin  was  talking  to  us. 
Not  long  ago  President  Snow  and  his 
party  attended  a  Stake  conference,  and 
I  noticed  that  the  choir  was  made  up 
almost  entirely  of  young  ladies.  There 
were  perhaps  two  young  men.  One 
young  man  led  the  choir,  and  I  do  not 
remember  clearly  whether  there  was 
one  young  man  in  the  choir  or  not  be- 
sides the  leader;  but  all  the  rest  were 
young  ladies.  It  was  a  beautiful  choir, 
and  they  sang  beautifully,  but  the  ab- 
sense  of  male  voices  was  very  con- 
spicuous, notwithstanding.  I  believe 
during  one  of  the  services  the  leader  of 
the  choir  was  absent,  and  one  of  the 
young  ladies  had  to  step  forward  and 
lead  it.  I  inquired  why  it  was  that  the 
young  men  were  not  more  numerous 
in  that  company  of  singers,  and  was 
told  that  the  young  men  considered  it 
was  too  effeminate,  too  womanly,  for 
them  to  engage  in  the  occupation  of 
singing.  I  presume  they  might  have 
felt  more  at  home  shaking  the  quilts, 
sweeping  the  floors,  and  helping  to 
wash  the  dishes.  I  can  remember  when 
I  was  a  little  boy,  hearing  my  father 
sing.  I  do  not  know  how  much  of  a 
singer  he  was,  for  at  that  time  I  was 
not  capable  of  judging  as  to  the  qual- 
ity of  his  singing,  but  the  hymns  he 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


69 


6ang  became  familiar  to  me,  even  in 
the  days  of  my  childhood.  I  believe 
that  I  can  sing  them  still,  although  I 
am  not  much  of  a  singer.  When  young 
men  go  out  into  the  world  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  they  will  find  it  very  bene- 
ficial for  them  to  know  how  to  sing 
the  songs  of  Zion.  I  repeat  the  ad- 
monition and  request  made  by  Brother 
McMurrin,  who  has  recently  returned 
from  a  lengthy  mission  to  Europe,  that 
the  young  men  who  are  eligible  to 
preach  the  Gospel,  and  who  are  liable 
to  be  called  into  the  missionary  field, 
begin  at  once  to  improve  their  talent 
to  sing,  and  do  not  think  it  is  beneath 
their  dignity  to  join  the  choirs  of  the 
wards  in  which  they  live  and  learn  how 
to  sing.  When  we  listen  to  this  choir, 
under  the  leadership  of  Brother  Ste- 
phens, we  listen  to  music,  and  music  is 
truth.  Good  music  is  gracious  praise 
of  God.  It  is  delightsome  to  the  ear, 
and  it  is  one  of  our  most  acceptable 
methods  of  worshipping  God.  And  those 
who  sing  in  this  choir  and  in  all  the 
choirs  of  the  Saints,  should  sing  with 
the  spirit  and  with  the  understanding. 
They  should  not  sing  merely  because 
it  is  a  profession,  or  because  they  have 
a  good  voice;  but  they  should  sing  also 
because  they  have  the  spirit  of  it  and 
can  enter  into  the  spirit  of  prayer  and 
praise  to  God  who  gave  them  their 
sweet  voices.  My  soul  is  always  lifted 
up  and  my  spirit  cheered  and  com- 
forted when  I  hear  good  music.  I  re- 
joice in  it  very  much  indeed.  Now,  I 
would  like  to  encourage  the  young  men 
of  Israel  to  learn  to  sing,  and  especially 
those  young  men  of  whom  I  have  been 
speaking.  I  would  not  like  to  tell  you 
just  where  they  live,  because  it  might 
be  considered  a  little  personal,  but  it 
was  down  south;  it  was  not  very  far 
down  south  either.  It  was  somewhere 
near  Sanpete  valley.  I  want  the  young 
men  of  Sanpete  Valley  to  learn  how  to 
sing,  so  that  when  we  go  down  to  hold 
conference  there  again  we  can  have  the 
young  men  joining  with  the  young  wo- 
men in  the  choir,  and  not  leave  the 
young  women  to  do  all  the  singing. 
This  might  apply  also  to  all  the  other 
counties;  especially  should  it  apply  to 
those  counties  or  Stakes  of  Zion  where 
the  young  men  think  it  is  beneath  their 
dignity   and    their   manhood   to  learn 


how  to  sing.  I  hope  they  will  rise 
above  such  a  foolish  notion  as  this. 

Not  only  should  we  learn  to  sing, 
but  we  should  learn  to  say  our  prayers. 
It  is  about  as  awkward  for  a  young 
man  to  go  out  to  preach  the  Gospel  to 
those  who  sit  in  darkness,  who  does 
not  know  how  to  pray,  as  it  is  for  one 
who  does  not  know  how  to  sing.  And 
there  are  some  who  have  gone  out  in- 
to the  world,  as  we  have  heard  today, 
who  have  not  even  known  how  to  pray. 
The  last  time  I  was  absent  from  home 
in  the  missionary  field,  I  heard  of  a 
young  man,  whose  grandfather  was  an 
Apostle  and  one  of  the  most  brilliant 
and  faithful  Apostles  of  the  Church, 
and  whose  father  has  been  a  Bishop  in 
the  Church,  and  is  today  a  very  prom- 
einent  man.  This  young  man  went  out 
to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  heathens, 
and  when  he  got  into  the  field  of  labor 
he  confessed  he  had  never  said  a 
prayer  in  his  life;  he  had  never  heard 
his  mother  pray;  he  had  not  been  suffi- 
ce ntly  with  his  father  to  hear  him 
pray,  and  he  knew  nothing  about  pray- 
ing and  he  had  to  begin  as  a  little 
child,  in  the  missionary  field,  to  learn 
how  to  pray.  It  is  a  great  pity  that  a 
young  man  should  be  sent  out  handi- 
capped in  this  way;  that  he  should  be 
put  to  such  a  disadvantage  by  the  in- 
difference of  his  parents  and  the  neg- 
lect of  tho  opportunities  that  he  had 
had  in  Zion.  I  pray  you,  my  young 
brethren  who  are  present  in  this  vast 
congregation,  and  who  are  liable  to  be 
called  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the 
world,  when  you  are  called  to  go  out, 
I  pray  that  you  will  know  how  to  ap- 
proach God  in  prayer.  It  is  not  such 
a  difficult  thing  to  learn  how  to  pray. 
It  is  not  the  words  we  use  particularly 
that  constitute  prayer.  Prayer  does 
not  consist  of  words,  altogether.  True, 
faithful,  earnest  prayer  consists  more 
in  the  feeling  that  rises  from  the  heart 
and  from  the  inward  desire  of  our 
spirits  to  supplicate  the  Lord  in  hu- 
mility and  in  faith,  that  we  may  re- 
ceive His  blessings.  It  matters  not 
how  simple  the  words  may  be,  if  our 
desires  are  genuine  and  we  come  be- 
fore the  Lord  with  a  broken  heart  and 
a  contrite  spirit  to  ask  Him  for  that 
which  we  need.  I  would  like  to  know 
if  there  is  a  young  man  in  this  congre- 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


gation,  or  anywhere  else,  who  does  not 
need  something  of  the  Lord.  Where 
is  there  a  soul  upon  the  earth  that  does 
not  need  something'  that  the  Almighty 
can  give.  In  the  first  place,  all  that 
we  have  comes  from  him.  It  is  by  His 
providence  that  we  exist  on  the  earth. 
It  is  by  His  kind  mercy  that  we  see 
and  hear,  that  we  have  the  power  of 
speech,  and  that  we  possess  intelli- 
gence, for  as  the  prophet  of  old  said, 
"There  is  a  spirit  in  man,  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  giveth  them 
understanding."  Therefore  the  very 
power  of  understanding  that  we  possess 
is  the  gift  of  God.  In  and  of  ourselves 
we  are  but  a  lifeless  lump  of  cla^\ 
Life,  intelligence,  wisdom,  judgment, 
power  to  reason,  all  are  the  gifts  of 
God  to  the  children  of  men.  He  gives 
us  our  physical  strength  as  well  as  our 
mental  powers.  Every  young  man 
should  feel  from  the  depth  of  his  heart 
that  he  is  indebted  to  Almighty  God  for 
his  being  and  for  every  attribute  that 
he  possesses  which  is  in  likeness  of  the 
attributes  of  God.  We  should  seek  to 
magnify  the  attributes  that  we  possess. 
We  should  honor  God  with  our  intelli- 
gence, with  our  strength,  with  our 
understanding,  with  our  wisdom,  and 
with  all  the  power  that  we  possess.  We 
should  seek  to  do  good  in  the  world. 
This  is  our  duty;  and  if  a  young  man 
can  only  feel  as  all  men  should  feel, 
he  will  find  that  it  is  an  easy  matter 
for  him  to  bow  down  before  the  Lord 
in  humble  prayer  and  seek  unto  him 
for  the  aid,  comfort,  and  inspiration 
of  His  Holy  Spirit,  that  he  may  not 
be  left  entirely  to  himself,  nor  to  the 
wisdom  and  ways  of  the  world.  But  as 
a  rule,  where  young  men  have  good 
parents  to  provide  for  them,  where 
they  have  good  homes  and  their  food 
and  raiment  are  sure,  they  feel  that 
they  are  not  dependent  upon  anybody, 
unless  perchance  they  should  be  afflict- 
ed in  some  way,  and  then  begin  to  real- 
ize their  weakness  and  dependence. 
But  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  young 
friends,  that  in  the  hour  of  your  in- 
dependence, at  the  moment  when  you 
feel  the  strongest,  you  should  bear  in 
mind  that  you  are  but  human,  the 
breath  of  life  is  in  your  nostrils,  and 
you  are  destined  to  pass  from  this 
world  through  the  portals  of  death. 


Every  man  that  is  born  into  the  world 
will  die.  It  matters  not  who  he  is, 
nor  where  he  is,  whether  his  birth  be 
among  the  rich  and  the  noble,  or 
among  the  lowly  and  poor  in  the  world, 
his  days  are  numbered  with  the  Lord, 
and  in  due  time  he  will  reach  the  end. 
We  should  think  of  this.  Not  that  we 
should  go  about  with  heavy  hearts  or 
with  downcast  countenances;  not  at  all. 
I  rejoice  that  I  am  born  to  live,  to  die, 
and  to  live  again.  I  thank  God  for 
this  intelligence.  It  gives  me  joy  and 
peace  that  the  world  cannot  give, 
neither  can  the  world  take  it  away. 
God  has  revealed  this  to  me,  in  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  it  to 
be  true.  Therefore  I  have  nothing  to 
be  sad  over,  nothing  to  make  me  sor- 
rowful. All  that  I  have  to  do  with 
in  the  world  is  calculated  to  buoy  me 
up,  to  give  me  joy  and  peace,  hope 
and  consolation  in  this  present  life, 
and  a  glorious  hope  of  salvation  and 
exaltation  in  the  presence  of  my  God 
in  the  world  to  come.  I  have  no  rea- 
son to  mourn,  not  even  at  death.  It  is 
true  I  am  weak  enough  to  weep  at 
the  death  of  my  friends  and  kindred. 
I  may  shed  tears  when  I  see  the  grief 
of  others.  I  have  sympathy  in  my  soul 
for  the  children  of  men.  I  can  weep 
with  them  when  they  weep;  I  cant  re- 
joice with  them  when  they  rejoice;  but 
I  have  no  cause  to  mourn,  nor  to  be 
sad  because  death  comes  into  the 
world.  I  am  speaking  now  of  the  tem- 
poral death,  the  death  of  the  body.  All 
fear  of.  this  death  has  been  removed 
from  the  Latter-day  Saints.  .They  have 
no  dread  of  the  temporal  death,  be- 
cause they  know  that  as  death  came 
upon  them  by  the  transgression  of 
Adam,  so  by  the  righteousness  of  Jesus 
Christ  shall  life  come  unto  them,  and 
though  they  die  they  shall  live  again. 
Possessing  this  knowledge,  they  have 
joy  even  in  death,  for  they  know  that 
they  shall  rise  again  and  shall  meet 
again  beyond  the  grave.  They  know 
that  the  spirit  dies  not  at  all;  that  it 
passes  through  no  change,  except  the 
change  from  imprisonment  in  this  mor- 
tal clay  to  freedom  and  to  the  sphere 
in  which  it  acted  before  it  came  to 
this  earth.  We  are  begotten  in  the 
similitude  of  Christ  himself.  We  dwelt 
with  the  Father  and  with  the  Son  In 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


71 


the  beginning,  as  the  sons  and  daugh- 
ters of  God,  and  at  the  time  appointed 
we  came  to  this  earth  to  take  uoon 
ourselves  tabernacles,  that  we  might 
become  conformed  to  the  likeness  and 
image  of  Jesus  Christ  and  become  like 
him;  that  we  might  have  a  tabernacle 
as  He  has  a  tabernacle;  that  we  might 
pass  through  death  as  He  has  passed 
through  death;  that  we  might  rise 
again  from  the  dead  as  He  has  risen 
from  the  dead.  As  He  was  the  first 
fruits  of  the  resurrection  of  the  dead, 
so  shall  we  be  the  second  fruits  of  the 
resurrection  from  the  dead;  for  as  He 
came  forth,  so  shall  we  come  forth. 
What  is  there  therefore  to  be  sad 
about?  What  is  there  to  make  us 
heavy  of  heart  or  sorrowful  in  this 
matter?  Nothing  at  all.  Sorrowful,  in- 
deed, to  think  that  we  shall  live  for- 
ever! Is  there  any  cause  for  sorrow 
to  know  that  we  shall  rise  from  the 
dead,  and  possess  the  same  tabernacle 
that  we  have  here  in  mortality?  Is 
there  cause  for  sorrow  in  this  great, 
glorious  Gospel  truth  that  has  been  re- 
vealed to  us  in  this  dispensation?  Cer- 
tainly there  can  be  no  sorrow  connected 
with  a  thought  like  this.  There  must 
be  only  joy  connected  with  this  know- 
ledge— the  joy  that  springs  from  the 
ten  thousand  feelings  and  affections  of 
the  human  soul;  the  joy  that  we  feel 
in  association  with  brethren,  with 
wives  and  children,  with  fathers  and 
mothers,  with  brothers  and  sisters.  All 
these  joyous  thoughts  spring  up  in  our 
souls  at  the  thought  of  death  and  the 
resurrection.  Wherein  should  we  be 
sad  or  sorrowful?  On  the  contrary,  it 
is  cause  for  joy  unspeakable,  and  for 
pure  happiness.  I  cannot  express  the 
joy  I  feel  at  the  thought  of  meeting  my 
father,  and  my  precious  mother,  who 
gave  me  birth  in  the  midst  of  persecu- 
tion and  poverty,  who  bore  me  in  her 
arms  and  was  patient,  forbearing,  ten- 
der and  true  during  all  my  helpless 
moments  in  the  world.  The  thought  of 
meeting  her,  who  can  express  the  joy? 
The  thought  of  meeting  my  children 
who  have  preceded  me  beyond  the  veil, 
and  of  meeting  my  kindred  and  my 
friends,  what  happiness  it  affords!  For 
I  know  that  I  shall  meet  them  there. 
God  has  shown  me  that  this  is  true. 
He  has  made  it  clear  to  me,  in  answer 


to  my  prayer  and  devotion  as  He 
has  made  it  clear  to  the  understanding 
of  all  men  who  have  sought  diligently 
to  know  of  Him.  We  are  not  depen- 
dent for  this  upon  the  written  word, 
nor  upon  the  knowledge  possessed  by 
the  ancient  Prophets  and  Apostles.  We 
depend  only  upon  God  as  He  reveals 
Himself  today  and  administers  unto 
men  by  the  power  of  His  Holy  Spirit. 
And  all  men  in  the  world,  not  only  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  but  those  who  have 
never  embraced  the  Gospel,  have  the 
same  privilege  that  we  have,  if  they 
will  take  the  course  which  God  has 
marked  out.  It  is  their  privilege  to 
come  to  the  knowledge  of  this  truth 
and  to  understand  these  things'  for 
themselves.  We  have  derived  this 
knowledge  from  the  Lord,  not  from 
man.  Man  can  not  give  this  knowledge. 
I  may  tell  you  what  I  know,  but  that 
is  not  knowledge  to  you.  If  I  have 
learned  something  through  prayer,  sup- 
plication, and  perseverance  in  seeking 
to  know  the  truth,  and  I  tell  it  to  you, 
it  will  not  be  knowledge  unto  you.  I 
can  tell  you  how  you  can  obtain  It, 
but  I  cannot  give  it  to  you.  If  we  re- 
ceive this  knowledge,  it  must  come 
from  the  Lord.  He  can  touch  your 
understandings  and  your  spirits,  so 
that  you  shall  comprehend  perfectly 
and  not  be  mistaken.  But  I  cannot  do 
that.  You  can  obtain  this  knowledge 
through  repentance,  humility,  and 
seeking  the  Lord  with  full  purpose  of 
heart  until  you  find  Him.  He  is  not 
afar  off.  It  is  not  difficult  to  ap- 
proach Him,  if  we  will  only  do  it  with 
a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit, 
as  did  Nephi  of  old.  This  was  the  way 
in  which  Joseph  Smith,  in  his  boyhood, 
approached  Him.  He  went  into  the 
woods,  knelt  down,  and  in  humility  h& 
sought  earnestly  to  know  which  church 
was  acceptable  to  God.  He  received 
an  answer  to  his  prayer,  which  he  of- 
fered from  the  depths  of  his  heart,  and 
he  received  it  in  a  way  that  he  did  not 
expeci. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  learn 
to  pray  with  your  lips  only.  Do  not 
learn  a  prayer  by  heart,  and  say  it 
every  morning  and  evening.  That  is 
something  I  dislike  very  much.  It  is 
true  that  a  great  many  people  fall  into 
the  rut  of  saying  over  a  ceremonious 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


prayer.  They  begin  at  a  certain  point, 
and  they  touch  at  all  the  points  along 
the  road  until  they  get  to  the  winding 
up  scene;  and  when  they  have  done,  I 
do  not  know  whether  the  prayer  has 
ascended  beyond  the  ceiling  of  the  room 
or  not.  I  rejoice  in  the  truth.  I  thank 
God  for  the  testimony  that  I  have  re- 
ceived of  the  Gospel.  I  thank  God  that 
I  live,  and  that  I  shall  die  and  that  I 
shall  live  again  in  spite  of  me.  I  can- 
not prevent  that,  I  am  bound  to  go 
through  that  ordeal. 

But  I  want  to  speak  a  word  or  two 
in  relation  to  another  death,  which  is 
a  more  terrible  death  than  that  of  the 
body.  "When  Adam,  our  first  parent, 
partook  of  the  forbidden  fruit,  trans- 
gressed the  law  of  God,  and  became 
subject  unto  Satan,  he  was  banished 
from  the  presence  of  God  and  was 
thrust  out  into  outer  spiritual  darkness. 
This  was  the  first  death.  Tet  living,  he 
was  dead— dead  to  God,  dead  to  light 
and  truth,  dead  spiritually;  cast  out 
from  the  presence  of  God;  communica- 
tion between  the  Father  and  the  son  cut 
off.  He  was  as  absolutely  thrust  out 
from  the  presence  of  God  as  was  Satan 
and  the  hosts  that  followed  him.  That 
was  spiritual  death.  But  the  Lord  said 
that  He  would  not  suffer  Adam  nor  his 
posterity  to  come  to  the  temporal  death 
until  they  should  have  the  means  by 
which  they  might  be  redeemed  from 
the  first  death,  which  is  spiritual. 
Therefore  angels  were  sent  unto  Adam, 
who  taught  him  the  Gospel  and  re- 
vealed to  him  the  principle  by  which 
he  could  be  redeemed  from  the  first 
death,  and  be  brought  back  from  ban- 
ishment and  outer  darkness  into  the 
marvelous  light  of  the  Gospel.  He  was 
taught  faith,  repentance  and  baptism 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  who  should  come  in  the 
meridian  of  time  and  take  away  the 
sin  of  the  world,  and  was  thus  given  a 
chance  to  be  redeemed  from  the  spirit- 
ual death  before  he  should  die  the  tem- 
poral death.  Now,  all  the  world  today, 
I  am  sorry  to  say,  with  the  exception  of 
a  handful  of  people  who  have  obeyed 
the  new  and  everlasting  coverant,  are 
suffering  this  spiritual  death.  They  are 
cast  out  from  the  presence  of  God.  They 
are  without  God,  without  Gospel  truth, 


and  without  the  power  of  redemption; 
for  they  know  not  God  nor  His  GospeL 
In  order  that  they  may  be  redeemed 
and  saved  from  the  spiritual  death 
which  has  spread  over  the  world  like 
a  pall,  they  must  repent  of  their  sins, 
and  be  baptized  by  one  having  author- 
ity, for  the  remission  of  their  sins,  that 
they  may  be  born  of  God.  That  is  why 
we  want  these  young  men  to  go  out  in- 
to the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel. 
While  they  themselves  understand  but 
little  perhaps,  the  germ  of  life  is  in 
them.  They  have  been  born  again,  they 
have  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  they  have  the  authority  of 
the  holy  Priesthood,  by  which  they  can 
administer  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
Though  they  may  know  but  little  in  the 
beginning,  they  can  learn,  and  as  they 
learn  they  can  preach,  and  as  they  have 
opportunity  they  can  baptize  for  the 
remission  of  sins.  Therefore,  we  want 
them  to  do  their  duty  at  home.  We 
want  them  above  all  things  to  be  pure 
in  heart.  "We  want  our  boys  to  be 
without  sin  or  blemish.  We  do  not 
want  boys  that  have  been  in  saloons, 
that  have  been  in  houses  of  ill-fame, 
that  have  been  gamblers,  that  have 
been  drunkards,  that  have  been  in- 
famous in  their  lives — we  do  not  want 
such  to  go  into  the  ministry  of  this  holy 
Gospel  to  represent  the  Son  of  the  Liv- 
ing God  and  the  power  of  redemption 
to  the  world.  We  want  young  men  that 
have  been  born  or  adopted  in  the  cov- 
enant, that  have  been  reared  in  purity, 
that  have  kept  themselves  unspotted 
from  the  world,  and  can  go  into  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  and  say  to  men,  ''Fol- 
low me,  as  I  follow  Christ."  Then  we 
would  like  to  have  them  know  how  to 
sing,  and  to  pray.  We  expect  them  to 
be  honest,  virtuous,  and  faithful  unto 
death  to  their  covenants,  to  their  breth- 
ren, to  their  wives,  to  their  fathers  and 
mothers,  to  their  brothers  and  sisters, 
to  themselves  and  to  Gqd.  Where  you 
get  men  like  this  to  preach  the  Gospel 
to  the  world,  whether  they  know  much 
to  begin  with  or  not,  the  Lord  will  put 
His  Spirit  into  their  hearts,  and  He  will 
crown  them  with  intelligence  and  power 
to  save  the  souls  of  men.  For  t'he  germ 
of  life  is  in  them.    It  has  not  been 


PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 


73 


vitiated  or  corrupted;  it  has  not  been 
driven  away  from  them. 

God  bless  all  Israel,  and  preserve  the 
life  of  our  beloved  President.  May  He 
fill  him  with  wisdom,  with  understand- 
ing, and  with  a  knowledge  of  the  neces- 
sities of  the  whole  people  and  of  the 
cause  of  truth  in  the  world,  that  he  may 
be  instrumental  in  the  hands  of  Al- 
mighty God  of  meeting  every  exigency 
of  the  Church  and  performing  every 
duty  that  may  be  required  for  the  sal- 
vation of  Israel  and  for  the  redemption 
and  sanctification  of  this  land,  that  it 
may  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto  us.  May 
the  blessing  of  life,  peace,  health  and 
Intelligence  rest  down  upon  President 
Cannon  also,  and  upon  the  Apostles,  one 
and  all  of  them,  that  they  and  the 
Presidency  may  be  united;  that  we  may 
see  eye  to  eye,  and  labor  as  one  man 
for  the  salvation  of  souls,  and  especi- 
ally for  the  preservation  and  the  integ- 
rity of  the  household  of  faith.  May 
God  bless  these  men,  and  the  Presidents 
of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  the  High 
Councils,  the  Bishops  and  their  coun- 
selors, and  the  Presidents  of  the  High 
Priests.  Let  me  say  here  that  we  do 
not  want  every  "old  fogey,"  or  any  man 
because  he  is  an  "old  fogey,"  to  be 
joined  to  the  High  Priests  quorum. 
We  want  men  to  be  connected  with  the 
High  Priests  that  have  sense  and  in- 
telligence enough  to  govern,  if  they  are 
called  upon  to  do  so.  The  office  of  High 
Priest  is  the  office  of  Presidency  in  the 
Church,  and  men  who  are  High  Priests 
should  be  men  possessing  more  wisdom, 
more  intelligence,  and  more  knowledge 
as  to  how  to  govern  and  how  to  rule  in 
righteousness  in  the  Church  than  any 
other  class  of  people  in  it.  We  want 
good  men  to  be  High  Priests,  as  well  as 
good  men  to  be  Seventies.  Then  we 
want  good  men  to  be  Elders.  May  God 
bless  the  High  Priests  in  their  organiza- 
tions in  Zion,  and  the  Seventies,  and 
the  First  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seven- 
ties. May  He  bless  the  Elders,  and  the 
lesser  Priesthood  throughout  the 
Church.  May  God  bless  the  widows, 
and  provide  for  them,  through  the 
means  that  He  Himself  has  appointed 
in  the  Church.  May  the  people  of  God 
remember  their  tithes  and  offerings,  and 
obey  the  laws  of  God,  that  there  may 
be  meat  in  the  storehouse  of  the  Lord, 


to  feed  the  poor,  to  clothe  the  naked,  to 
educate  the  orphan,  and  to  take  the 
helpless  and  lift  them  up  and  put  them 
in  a  position  where  they  can  contend  in 
the  world  successfully  for  their  living, 
equally  with  those  who  have  guardians 
and  protectors  to  take  care  of  them. 
May  God  bless  Israel,  and  may  peace 
abide  upon  all  the  household  of  faith, 
is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON. 

In  Relation  to  Prayer. 
I  would  like  to  add  a  few  words  in 
relation  to  prayer.  The  testimony  that 
President  Smith  has  borne  is  very  true 
and  comes  home  to  me  with  great 
force.  It  is  a  subject  upon  which  I 
have  had  a  good  many  thoughts.  I 
have  talked  to  our  people  in  various 
conferences  concerning  it,  and  I  will 
say  here  that  we  should  give  our  wives 
and  children  the  opportunity  to  pray 
in  the  family  circle.  There  are  men 
who  think  that  unless  they  pray  the 
Lord  does  not  hear  the  prayer,  and 
they  are  in  the  habit  of  doing  all  the 
praying  in  their  families.  I  have  known 
men  who  have  got  into  such  a  habit, 
as  President  Smith  has  said,  that 
prayer  with  them  is  only  a  form.  There 
is  a  story  told  of  some  boys  who  were 
outside  a  house  while  the  man  of  the 
house  was  praying.  One  of  his  sons 
was  among  the  number,  but  he  was 
not  where  he  could  hear  as  well  as 
some  of  his  companions;  so  he  asked 
one  of  the  boys  where  his  father  was 
at,  and  I  believe  they  told  him  he  was 
at  Jerusalem  and  the  gathering  of  the 
Jews.  "Oh!"  said  he,  "we  can  go  off 
for  some  time  yet."  He  knew  the 
prayer  so  well  that  he  could  tell  how 
long  it  would  take  to  finish  it.  Now, 
it  is  a  delightful  thing  to  hear  little 
children  pray.  They  pray  so  innocent- 
ly and  simply;  and  I  would  rather  hear 
a  little  child  pray  than  I  would  some 
of  the  ceremonious  and  formal  prayers. 
Some  men  seem  to  think  that  they  have 
got  to  tell  the  Lord  all  about  it  or  He 
will  not  know;  so  they  enter  into  every 
detail.  Well,  if  the  Spirit  prompts  that, 
it  is  all  right;  but  it  is  good  for  us  to 
pray  concisely.  We  should  teach  our 
children  to  pray  simply  and  naturally; 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  ask  for  that  which  they  want.  We 
should  ask  our  wives  and  our  daughters 
to  pray.  Let  them  do  some  of  the 
praying-  in  the  family.  They  will  enjoy 
it  better,  and  they  will  come  to  pray- 
ers more  regularly,  because  they  will 
take  an  interest  in  them.  Brethren,  do 
not  get  the  idea  that  the  Lord  will  not 
hear  your  wives  and  daughters.  He 
does  hear  them,  and  He  hears  our  lit- 
tle children.  I  would  give  them  the  op- 
portunity as  soon  as  they  are  old 
enough,  to  ask  a  blessing,  and  to  pray 
around  the  family  altar,  and  to  ask 
for  the  things  that  are  in  their  hearts. 


The  choir  sang  the  anthem: 
Hosannah. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Joseph  E.  Tay- 
lor. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


The  stenograph  work  in  taking  an  ac- 
count of  the  proceedings  in  the  Taber- 
nacle was  done  by  Arthur  Winter,  and 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  by  Leo  Hunsaker. 

JOHN  NICHOLSON, 

Clerk  of  Conference. 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


SEMI-CENTENNIAL   CELEBRATION  OF  THE  ESTABLISHMENT   OF  THE 
SUNDAY  SCHOOLS  OF  THE  CHURCH. 


The  general  jubilee  celebration  com- 
memorative of  the  establishment  of  the 
Sunday  schools  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  in  the  Rocky  Mountains,  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Sunday  evening,  October  8,  1899, 
this  year  being  the  fiftieth  anniversary 
of  the  organization  of  the  first  Sunday 
school  in  Utah. 

The  large  Tabernacle  was  filled  to  its 
utmost  capacity,  before  the  opening 
hour,  chiefly  by  Sabbath  school  work- 
ers, and  very  many  people  were  unable 
to  gain  ingress.  In  addition  to  the  gen- 
eral decorations  of  the  building,  there 
were  placed  in  promiment  positions 
large  portraits  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith, 
and  Presidents  Brigham  Young,  John 
Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff  and  Lorenzo 
Snow;  also  a  heroic  bust  picture  of 
Richard  Ballantyne;  life  size  portraits 
of  General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon,  President  Joseph  P.  Smith, 
Elders  George  Goddard,  John  Morgan 
and  most  of  the  members  of  the  Quor- 
um of  the  Apostles  and  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board.  Besides  the  gen- 
eral and  Stake  officers  of  the  Sunday 
school  organization  in  places  reserved, 
there  were  also  seats  reserved  for  and 
occupied  by  those  who  had  been  mem- 
bers of  the  first  Sunday  school,  those 
who  had  been  Sunday  school  workers 
forty-five,  forty,  thirty-five,  thirty  and 
twenty-five  years,  and  for  the  hus- 
bands, wives,  and  children  of  members 
of  the  first  Sunday  school,  and  reciters, 
from  different  nations,  of  the  Articles 
of  Faith,  prize  winners,  awarding  com- 
mittees, the  blind  and  deaf  representa- 
tives; also  the  families  of  the  late  El- 
ders Richard  Ballantyne,  George  God- 
dard and  John  Morgan. 


On  the  stand  were,  of  the  general  au- 
thorites  of  the  Church:  Presidents 
Lorenzo  Snow,  George  Q.  Cannon  and 
Joseph  F.  Smith;  Patriarch  John 
Smith;  members  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  Francis  M.  Ly- 
man, John  Henry  Smith,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  George  Teasdale,  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley,  Abraham  O. 
Woodruff,  and  Rudger  Clawson;  mem- 
bers of  the  First  Council  of  Seventies, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  C.  D.  Fjeldsted, 
George  Reynolds,  J.  Golden  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin,  and  Presiding  Bishop  Wm.  B. 
Preston. 

Of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
officers  there  were:  George  Q.  Cannon, 
general  superintendent;  Karl  G. 
Maeser,  assistant  general  superinten- 
dent; George  Reynolds,  general  treas- 
urer; George  D.  Pyper,  general  secre- 
tary,  and  Leo  Hunsaker,  assistant  gen- 
eral secretary;  of  the  members  of  the 
Sunday  School  Union  general  board, 
George  Q.  Cannon,  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
George  Reynolds,  Thomas  C.  Griggs, 
Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  Levi  W.  Rich- 
ards, Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George 
Teasdale,  and  Joseph  F.  Smith;  aids  to 
the  general  board,  L.  John  Nuttall, 
James  W.  Ure,  John  F.  Bennett,  John 
M.  Mills,  Wm.  B.  Dougall,  Wm.  D. 
Owen  and  Seymour  B.  Young. 

General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon  presided. 

At  7  p.  m.  Held's  Military  band, 
which  had  kindly  volunteered  its  ser- 
vices for  the  occasion,  and  which  oc- 
cupied a  place  in  front  of  the  choir 
seats,  played  an  overture  by  Suppe, 
"Poet  and  Peasant." 

At  7:20  p.  rii.  General  Superintendent 


76 


SUNDA  Y  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


George  Q.  Cannon  announced  the  open- 
ing hymn,  "Our  God,  we  Raise  to 
Thee,"  which  was  sung  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle choir  and  the  congregation,  un- 
der the  leadership  of  Prof.  Evan 
Stephens,  Prof.  Jos.  J.  Daynes  being 
the  organist. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Assistant  Gen- 
eral Superintendent  Karl  G.  Maeser. 

The  Tabernacle  choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills  we 
Bless  Thee." 

The  roll  of  Stakes  in  the  Church  was 
then  called  by  Secretary  George  D. 
Pyper,  there  being  present  representa- 
tives from  all  the  forty  Stakes  of 
Zion,  as  follows:  Alberta,  Bannock, 
Bear  Lake,  Beaver  Bingham,  Box- 
elder,  Cache,  Cassia,  Davis,  Emery, 
Fremont,  Juab,  Juarez,  Kanab,  Malad, 
Maricopa,  Millard,  Morgan,  Oneida, 
Panguitch,  Parowan,  Pocatello,  Salt 
Lake,  San  Juan,  San  Luis,  San- 
pete, Sevier,  Snowfiake,  St.  George, 
St.  John,  St.  Joseph,  Star  Valley,  Sum- 
mit, Tooele,  Uintah,  Wasatch,  Utah, 
Wayne,  Weber,  and  Woodruff. 

GENERAL  SUPERINTENDENT  GEO. 
Q.  CANNON 

then  spoke  as  follows: 

"It  is  gratifying  to  know  that  every 
Stake  has  a  representative  here  this 
evening. 

"I  see  that  I  am  on  the  program  for 
some  introductory  remarks.  The  time 
is  so  short  that  what  I  shall  say  will 
be  very  brief. 

"I  am  sure  that  everyone  present 
must  be  profoundly  impressed  with  this 
assemblage  of  people  this  evening.  Of 
the  many  sights  we  have  had  of  a 
gratifying  character,  connected  with  the 
Sunday  schools,  this  certainly  excels 
them  all.  It  is  exceedingly  delightful 
to  see  the  interest  that  is  taken  by  the 
whole  people  in  this  grand  work.  The 
Sunday  school  has  become  an  institu- 
tion that  is  very  dear  to  the  hearts 
of  this  entire  people.  Every  day  that 
passes  impresses  its  importance  more 
and  more  on  the  minds  of  all.  Every 
parent  that  has  right  conceptions  con- 
cerning the  future  of  their  children, 
feels  a  deep  and  abiding  interest  in  the 
Sunday  school.  The  Sunday  School 
Union  board  has  very  little  occasion  to 
find  fault  with  the  management  of  the 


Sunday  schools,  or  with  the  lack  of  in- 
terest manifested  by  those  who  ought  to 
take  interest  in  it.  Everybody  recog- 
nizes the  value  of  the  Sunday  school, 
and  of  its  teachings,  but  there  remains 
a  great  deal  yet  to  be  done.  As  Sunday 
school  workers  we  should  not  be  content 
until  we  have  brought  all  the  children 
of  the  land  into  the  Sunday  school  and 
under  its-  influence,  so  that  these  little 
fellows  that  now  grow  wild  may  be 
humanized  and  made  to  feel  the  respon- 
sibility that  will  rest  upon  them  when 
they  grow  to  manhood.  I  am  sure  that 
everyone  that  labors  in  the  Sunday 
school  feels  the  importance  of  training 
their  children  and  getting  them  to  ob- 
serve the  Sabbath  day  and  to  refrain 
from  visiting  the  street  corners,  behav- 
ing rudely  and  boisterously,  or  going 
fishing  or  hunting  on  the  day  which 
has  been  set  apart  by  the  Almighty  for 
His  worship,  and  which  ought  to  be 
sacred  in  all  our  hearts.  Our  children 
should  be  impressed  with  the  sacredness 
of  this  day.  I  hope  to  see  the  time  when 
we  shall  have  less  of  this  unruly  ele- 
ment in  our  streets  and  in  our  homes, 
and  when  our  children  shall  become 
students  in  the  Sunday  school.  The 
Sunday  school  is  dear  to  the  hearts  of 
those  children  who  do  attend.  They  f  ael 
interested  in  it,  and  the  influence  of  our 
teachings  in  the  Sunday  school  is  going 
to  make,  it  may  be  said,  a  new  genera- 
tion. It  is  but  a  few  years  from  child- 
hood to  manhood,  and  in  our  hands, 
Sunday  school  teachers  and  superin- 
tendents, is  the  formation  of  the  char- 
acter of  the  rising  generation.  As  we 
impress  them  with  the  proper  feelings 
and  thoughts  and  teach  them  correct 
habits,  so  will  they  grow  up  to  man- 
hood and  womanhood,  and  their  influ- 
ence will  be  felt  for  good  wherever  they 
move. 

"I  pray  God  to  bless  this  Sunday 
school  movement,  to  bless  every  man 
and  woman  who  labors  in  this  cause 
and  who  devotes  himself  and  herself 
to  the  promotion  of  righteousness  in  the 
midst  of  the  rising  generation.  I  ask 
this  blessing  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen." 

ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN 
read  the  following  paper: 
"Today  we  celebrate  the  Jubilee  of  the 


SO  AD  AY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE 


77 


establishment  of  Sunday  Schools  in 
these  mountain  vales.  In  attempting  to 
briefly  review  the  progress  and  develop- 
ment of  the  Sunday  School  cause  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  for  half  a  cen- 
tury past  we  cannot  hope  to  more  than 
glance  at  the  most  prominent  events 
and  refer  to  a  few  of  the  pioneers  and 
leaders  in  this  great  work.  Fifty  years 
ago  the  Saints,  after  being  driven  from 
their  homes  in  the  East,  were  settled 
here  in  peace  but  not  in  a  land  of 
plenty.  In  search  of  that  peace  and  re- 
ligious liberty  they  had  come  to  a  land 
dry  and  barren,  a  land  that  was  for- 
bidding to  all  who  did  not  put  their 
trust  in  the  true  and  living  God,  and 
show  forth  their  faith  by  hard  and  per- 
sistent toil.  Yet  amid  the  struggles  and 
privations  of  pioneer  existence  they  did 
not  forget  the  education  of  their  child- 
ren. But  how  meagre  were  their  facil- 
ities for  education  then  compared  with 
those  we  now  possess!  More  than  three 
years  had  passed  since  they  left  their 
beautiful  city  of  Nauvoo,  on  the  banks 
of  the  Mississippi,  and  set  their  faces 
towards  the  wilderness  to  And  a  haven 
of  rest  in  the  wilds  of  the  Rocky  Moun- 
tains. All  their  supplies  had  to  be  haul- 
ed by  team  more  than  a  thousand  miles. 
Their  houses  were  necessarily  small  and 
poorly  lighted.  They  had  but  few  books; 
and,  as  a  people,  their  numbers  were 
small. 

"While  the  Saints  were  in  the  midst  of 
these  adverse  circumstances,  Brother 
Richard  Ballantyne,  then  in  the  prime 
of  life,  saw  and  felt  the  need  of  religi- 
ous instruction  being  imparted  to  the 
young.  When  he  arrived  here  in  1848 
he  settled  in  the  Old  Fort,  and  while 
still  there,  in  the  month  of  May,  1849, 
he  formed  the  purpose  of  starting  a 
Sunday  school  for  the  education  of  the 
youth  in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
and  a  knowledge  of  the  scriptures.  In 
speaking  of  this  he  said,  'That  was  the 
main  purpose, — to  teach  them  the  Gos- 
pel, because  I  felt  it  was  very  precious 
to  me  and  I  thought  it  would  be  precious 
to  them,  and  it  was  my  duty  to  do 
that.'  Having  no  suitable  place  in 
which  to  carry  out  his  noble  design,  he 
determined  to  build  one.  He  had  a  city 
lot  in  the  Fourteenth  Ward,— now  des- 
ignated as  the  northeast  corner  of  First 
West  and    Third    South    Streets.  He 


moved  his  two  wagons  there  and  about 
the  last  of  May  commenced  to  gather 
materials  and  erect  a  building  that  was 
to  be  his  home  and  school  house.  From 
then  until  early  winter  he  labored  to  ac- 
complish this  purpose.  The  rock  was 
hauled  from  Red  Butte,  and  adobes 
from  the  old  adobe  yard,  the  lumber 
from  Mill  Creek  canyon,  which  he  paid 
for  by  hauling  the  logs  on  shares.  Ex- 
cepting the  doors  and  windows  he  did 
the  work  of  building  with  his  own 
hands.  In  front  of  his  lot  he  placed  a 
neat  pole  fence.  Not  unmindful  of  the 
good  influence  of  pleasant  surroundings 
and  with  all  other  labors  before  him,  in 
the  spring  he  procured  cottonwood 
trees  from  City  Creek  canyon  and 
planted  some  for  shade  in  front  of  the 
lot  and  others  for  a  small  grove  near 
his  future  school  and  home.  The  house, 
when  finished,  was  built  of  adobes,  with 
a  dirt  roof,  the  windows  and  paneled 
doors  were  painted;  in  size  it  was  18 
feet  wide  by  20  feet  long  outside,  be- 
sides a  smaller  room  used  by  the  family 
for  a  living  room.  The  school  room, 
for  those  times,  was  well  lighted.  The 
seats  were  long  benches,  made  of  slabs, 
extending  the  width  of  the  room. 

"On  the  morning  of  the  second  Sun- 
day in  December,  1849,  all  was  ready. 
He  with  his  wife  and  babe  and  the 
members  of  the  school  were  gathered 
there.  In  their  presence  he  solemnly 
dedicated  by  prayer  the  room  for  the 
purpose  for  which  it  was  designed.  The 
Sunday  school  numbered  about  50  pu- 
pils, among  whom  were  members  of  the 
families  of  Apostles  John  Taylor,  Wil- 
ford  Woodruff,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  Frank- 
lin D.  Richards,  and  others.  They  fur- 
nished their  own  books.  The  lessons 
were  from  the  New  Testament,  Book 
of  Mormon  and  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants, mostly  from  the  New  Testament. 
The  children  were  willing  to  attend. 
They  were  seldom  absent  although  the 
school  began  at  8  o'clock  in  the  morn- 
ing, closing  in  time  for  those  who 
wished  to  attend  the  general  meeting 
of  the  Saints.  His  Bishop,  John  Mur- 
dock,  to  whom  he  was  second  counselor, 
was  in  hearty  accord  with  him  in  all 
his  efforts.  He  carried  on  the  school 
himself  successfully  for  about  a  year. 
In  the  meantime  the  Fourteenth  Ward 
had  erected  a  meeting  house,  and  in  the 


78 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


fall  of  1850  the  Sunday  school  moved 
Into  it.  Bro.  Ballantyne  was  the  Sup- 
erintendent, assisted  by  Bro.  Joseph 
Horne,  Bro.  Phineas  Richards  and  sev- 
eral teachers.  When  Bro.  Ballantyne 
left  on  a  three  years'  mission  to  Hin- 
dustan, in  1852,  Bro.  Horne  succeeded 
him  as  superintendent  of  the  Sunday 
school. 

"In  succeeding  years,  many  others  in- 
spired with  a  similar  interest  in  the 
education  of  the  children,  became 
pioneers  or  leaders  in  Sunday  school 
work  in  other  wards  and  settlements. 
Bro.  Ballantyne,  after  his  return  home, 
organized  a  Sunday  school  in  1856,  in 
the  Fifteenth  Ward,  which  he  thought 
was  one  of  the  best  he  had  ever  seen, 
because  of  the  outpouring  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  upon  it,  and  especially  in  the 
spirit  of  testimony  that  rested  upon  the 
pupils.  Thus  other  Sunday  schools  were 
organized  and  maintained  amid  the 
many  privations,  hardships  and  charges 
that  marked  the  early  settlements  of 
the  Saints.  With  the  increase  of  pop- 
ulation and  facilities  for  education  the 
interest  in  Sunday  schools  has  grown 
until  a  ward  is  not  considered  complete 
without  one  or  more  live  Sunday  schools 
in  it. 

"On  the  4th  of  November,  1867,  a 
meeting  of  those  interested  in  the  Sun- 
day schools  of  the  Saints  was  held  at 
the  Thirteenth  Ward  Assembly  Hall, 
Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  purpose  of  or- 
ganizing a  Sunday  School  Union.  This 
was  the  first  meeting  held  for  that  pur- 
pose. There  not  being  so  many  present 
as  was  anticipated,  the  meeting  ad- 
journed until  the  11th  of  that  month  at 
the  same  place.  On  the  latter  occasion 
there  was  a  large  attendance;  among 
those  present  were  Presidents  Brigham 
Young  and  Daniel  H.  Wells,  also  Apost- 
les George  A.  Smith.  Wilford  Woodruff, 
George  Q.  Cannon,  and  Brigham  Young 
Jr.  At  this  meeting  the  first  steps  were 
taken  towards  a  permanent  organiza- 
tion, and  Elder  George  Q.  Cannon  was 
elected  president,  with  a  secretary  and 
two  corresponding  secretaries.  A  com- 
mittee of  three  were  also  appointed  to 
examine  and  decide  upon  books  suit- 
able for  use  in  our  Sunday  schools. 

"During  the  meeting  President  Brig- 
ham Young  spoke  at  considerable 
length,  instructing   those     present  on 


various  points  connected  with  the  Sun- 
day, school  movement,  and  the  cause  of 
education  in  general.  He  was  followed 
by  Elder  George  A.  Smith  and  George 
Q.  Cannon.  The  latter  stated  that 
Elder  David  O.  Calder  had  kindly  vol- 
unteered to  teach  the  tonic  sol-fa  sys- 
tem of  music  to  the  Sunday  school 
teachers,  as  soon  as  a  sufficient  num- 
ber came  forward  to  form  a  class. 

"It  was  not  until  1872  that  the  Sun- 
day School  Union  assumed  a  more  com- 
pact and  definite  shape.  In  the  June 
of  that  year  a  committee,  appointed  at 
a  meeting  of  Sunday  school  officers  and 
teachers,  and  composed  of  Brothers 
George  Goddard,  John  Morgan  and 
John  B.  Maiben  waited  upon  General 
Superintendent  George  Q.  Cannon,  pre- 
sented the  minutes  of  the  meeting  for 
his  approval  and  invited  his  counsel 
and  co-operation  in  bringing  about  a 
wider  concert  of  action  to  give  greater 
impetus  and  solidity  to  the  efforts  of 
the  Union.  The  result  was  that  from 
that  time  the  efforts  and  labors  of  the 
Union  assumed  a  more  practical  shape, 
and  thereafter  monthly  meetings  of  the 
teachers  and  superintendents  were  held 
in  Salt  Lake  City  with  great  regularity; 
at  first  in  the  City  Hall,  then  in  the  14th 
Ward  Assembly  Rooms,  afterwards  in 
the  Council  House,  and  still  later  in  the 
Assembly  Hall.  These  meetings  con- 
tinued to  grow  in  proportions  and  inter- 
est until  they  were  among  the  most 
popular  and  most  largely  attended  of 
any  of  the  assemblies  of  the  people  of 
Zion. 

"In  reading  the  minutes  of  the  regu'ar 
meetings  of  the  Union,  it  is  exceedingly 
interesting  to  note  that  the  same  sub- 
jects that  are  still  considered  among  the 
most  important  were  then  canvassed 
with  much  vigor,  and  that  the  instuc- 
tions  given  were,  to  a  very  great  extent, 
the  same,  slightly  differing  according 
to  altered  circumstances,  as  those  that 
it  is  still  found  necessary  to  inculcate. 
The  subjects  of  punctuality,  the  grading 
of  the  schools,  prizes,  rewards,  the  nec- 
essity of  readers  adjusted  to  the  use  of 
the  Sabbath  schools  of  the  Saints,  of  a 
collection  of  hymns  and  songs  composed 
by  members  of  the  Church,  with  suit- 
able music;  of  a  primary  catechism,  and 
the  publication  of  other  suitable  works, 
keeping  better  registers  of  attendance, 


SUN  DA  1  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


79 


improved  records,  correct  and  punctual 
reports,  selection  of  suitable  books  for 
Sunday  school  libraries,  securing  larger 
average  attendance,  and  the  use  of  the 
scriptures  for  text  books  in  the  classes — 
all  these  and  many  other  subjects  that 
still  have  to  be  considered,  are  to  be 
found  among  the  teachings  of  the  gen- 
eral superintendency  and  others  of  the 
brethren  from  the  time  that  these  meet- 
ings were  first  held.  These  instructions 
have  not  been  in  vain.  Not  only  has 
the  Union  increased  in  numbers,  year 
by  year,  but  in  compactness  also,  and  a 
greater  uniformity  has  been  reached  in 
the  methods  of  teaching  and  in  the 
modes  of  conducting  the  schools.  At 
first  there  was  considerable  diversity  of 
operation  in  the  Sunday  schools  situat- 
ed in  the  various  Stakes  of  Zion;  but 
today,  through  experience,  better  me- 
thods have  been  attained  which  secure 
greater  uniformity  and  more  satisfact- 
ory results.  Class  readers,  such  as 
those  used  in  the  day  schools,  and  which 
were  once  so  widely  used  in  the  Sunday 
schools  are  now  almost  entirely  exclud- 
ed from  the  latter,  and  in  their  place  we 
have  the  First  and  Second  Readers  pub- 
lished by  the  Union. 

"The  organization  of  schools  into  the 
Union  for  some  time  proceeded  slowly 
in  the  more  remote  settlements,  but 
in  the  more  complete  organizations  of 
the  Stakes  of  Zion,  which  took  place  a 
short  time  previous  to  the  death  of 
President  Brigham  Young,  was  found 
the  means  by  which  the  good  influence 
of  the  Union  could  be  extended  to  the 
most  distant  schools,  through  the  pre- 
siding officers  of  those  various  Stakes; 
and  Stake  superintendents  of  Sunday 
schools  are  now  almost  invariably  ap- 
pointed when  the  organization  of  a 
Stake  is  perfected;  so  that,  today,  in 
every  Stake  of  Zion,  as  there  is  a  Stake 
president,  there  is  also  a  Stake  superin- 
tendent of  Sunday  schools,  subject  to 
the  president  of  the  Stake,  with  assis- 
tant officers  to  look  after  and  care  for 
the  Sunday  school  interests  in  that 
Stake. 

"In  the  year  1877  a  new  feature  of 
much  importance  was  introduced,  by 
direction  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  into  the  services  of  the  Sunday 
schools.  We  refer  to  the  administration 
of  the  Sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper. 


It  was  directed  that  this  should  be  done 
by  the  Bishops  or  under  their  direction. 
The  effects  of  this  counsel,  where  car- 
ried out  in  the  spirit  of  the  instructions 
given,  have  been  marked  for  good.  A 
better  understanding  of  the  divine  mis- 
sion of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  and  of  His  atonement  for  the 
sins  of  the  world  has  been  given  to  our 
children,  and  they  are  constantly  re- 
minded by  partaking  of  these  emblems, 
together  with  suitable  hymns  sung,  and 
instructions  given  on  this  subject  at 
these  times,  of  the  necessity  of  honor- 
ing their  Savior,  of  reverencing  His 
name,  and  obeying  His  laws. 

"Nor  in  our  review  of  what  the  Union 
has  accomplished  must  we  forget  the 
impetus  it  has  given  to  the  development 
of  musical  talent  in  the  midst  of  the 
Saints.  We  feel  satisfied,  we  can  say 
without  undue  vanity,  that  no  single 
agency  has  done  so  much  in  this  direc- 
tion as  it  has  and  the  results  are  emin- 
ently satisfactory,  showing  as  a  people, 
we  have  many  among  us  whose  com- 
positions are  worthy  of  high  praise, 
with  a  constantly  developing  standard 
of  excellence.  The  means  adopted  by 
the  Union  to  accomplish  this  have  been 
various.  Among  others,  the  constant 
inculcation  of  the  necessity  of  good 
singing  in  the  Sunday  schools  by  all 
the  teachers  and  pupils;  the  establish- 
ment of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Musical  Union  and  the  organization  of 
the  Union's  brass  band;  the  holding,  for 
many  years,  commencing  in  1874,  of 
musical  festivals  in  the  Large  Taber- 
nacle in  Salt  Lake  City,  an  example 
which  has  been  followed  in  many  of 
our  other  large  settlements;  the  award- 
ing of  prizes  for  the  best  original  mus- 
ical compositions  and  poetry;  the  publi- 
cation in  the  Juvenile  Instructor  of 
numerous  pieces  of  original  music;  the 
issuance  of  scores  of  thousands  of  musi- 
cal cards;  later  of  a  Union  Music  Book, 
then  a  Hymn  Book,  and  still  later  the 
publication  of  the  Song  Book  and  the 
Hymn  Book  now  in  use.  Of  these  sev- 
eral editions  have  been  already  publish- 
ed. 

"With  pleasure  we  refer  to  the  value 
that  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  edited  by 
Elder  George  Q.  Cannon,  has  been  in 
aiding  the  great  Sunday  school  work. 
Its  advent  in  January,  1866,  antedated 


80 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


the  organization  of  the  Union,  and  from 
its  commencement  it  has  been  our  con- 
stant friend.  The  publication  in  its 
columns  of  the  catechisms  on  the  Bible, 
Book  of  Mormon,  Church  History,  etc., 
its  musical  pages,  its  editorial  teach- 
ings, and  many  other  of  its  features, 
have  rendered  it  a  necessity  in  our  Sun- 
day schools  whose  influence  can  scarce- 
ly be  over-estimated.  It  is  now  the  re- 
cognized official  organ  of  the  General 
Board  of  the  Union.  Its  value  lies  dis- 
tinctly in  the  fact  that  through  its 
pages  unity  and  harmony  of  action  can 
be  brought  about  throughout  all  our 
schools,  and  the  instructions  of  the  gen- 
eral officers  can  reach  the  remotest 
schools,  where  otherwise,  through  lack 
of  personal  visits,  they  would  often  be 
at  a  loss  to  keep  step  with  the  rest  of 
the  Union.  It  is  true  that  some  slight 
variations,  arising  from  local  peculiar- 
ities, must  always  exist,  and  with  which 
it  would  be  unwise  to  interfere,  but  the 
general  rules  suggested  by  the  Union 
have  been  almost  universally  adopted 
in  our  schools  throughout  the  length 
and  breadth  of  our  settlements,  with 
most  gratifying  results.  Among  these 
suggestions  are: 

"That  the  school  should  always  be 
promptly  opened  at  the  time  appointed; 
which,  wherever  practicable,  should  be 
ten  o'clock  in  the  morning. 

"That  the  singing  should  be  done  by 
the  whole  school,  and  not  simply  by  a 
selected  choir  of  a  few  voices. 

"That  the  Sacrament  should  be  ad- 
ministered every  Sunday. 

"That  the  readers  used  should  be  the 
Scriptures  and  other  works  of  the 
Church  and  publications  approved  by 
the  General  Board. 

"That  primary  and  infant  classes 
should  be  established,  where  the  little 
ones  can  be  taught  orally  by  one  or 
more  of  the  most  experienced  teachers. 
Whenever  possible  this  should  be  done 
in  a  room  separate  from  the  rest  of  the 
school. 

"That  every  school  should  be  fully 
organized  with  a  complete  set  of  of- 
ficers, and  that  every  male  officer  and 
teacher  should  hold  some  portion  of  the 
Priesthood. 

"That  when  the  school  is  dismissed 
the  children  should  leave  in  order,  class 
by  class;  and  when  consistent,  to  the 
music  of  a  march  on  the  organ. 


"That  teachers'  meetings  should  be 
held  at  least  once  a  month,  for  the  re- 
gulation of  school  matters  and  the  in- 
struction of  the  teachers. 

"That  public  reviews  should  be  had 
at  such  stated  intervals  as  are  con- 
sidered most  convenient  and  profitable 
by  the  officers  of  the  schools. 

"That  the  Sunday  school  officers 
should  always  work  in  harmony  with 
the  local  presiding  Priesthood,  and  seek 
to  carry  out  their  counsel  with  diligence 
and  in  good  faith. 

"That  continued  efforts,  through  Sun- 
day school  visitors  or  otherwise,  should 
be  strenuously  made  to  obtain  the  at- 
tendance at  school  of  every  child  of 
sufficient  age  belonging  to  the  ward. 

"It  would  be  ungenerous  not  to  refer 
to  the  immense  amount  of  labor  per- 
formed by  the  brethren  and  sisters  of 
the  various  committees  connected  with 
the  getting  up  and  carrying  to  success- 
ful conclusion  of  our  mammoth  celebra- 
tions in  the  Tabernacle;  the  decorations 
on  more  than  one  occasion  of  this  vast 
building  with  evergreens,  flowers,  etc., 
the  formation  of  the  beautiful  center- 
pieces that  adorned  it,  and  many  other 
duties  associated  therewith,  were  all 
labors  of  love,  but  which  at  the  same 
time  required  much  toil,  unwearied  pa- 
tience and  a  large  amount  of  time  to  ex- 
ecute. Nor  were  these  alone;  the  ex- 
ecutive, finance,  musical,  reception  and 
other  committees  all  had  their  hands 
full  of  a  pleasurable  work,  and  they 
performed  it  in  such  a  successful  man- 
ner as  to  meet,  as  it  deserved,  with  un- 
iversal commendation  and  approval 
from  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  1884  the  general  monthly  meetings 
were  given  in  charge  of  the  Stake  Sun- 
day school  authorities,  and  the  general 
meetings  of  the  Union  were  appointed 
to  be  held  twice  a  year  at  the  times  of 
the  General  Conferences  of  the  Church. 

"Some  of  the  principal  events  of 
recent* years  have  been:  the  holding  of 
an  annual  Sunday  School  Conference  in 
each  Stake,  visited  almost  invariably 
by  one  or  more  members  of  the  General 
Board;  the  organization  of  a  Sunday 
School  for  the  deaf  mutes  and  one  for 
the  blind,  the  more  thorough  grading 
of  the  pupils  into  different  departments; 
the  establishment  of  Nickel  Day,  on 
which  all  members  of  the  Sunday 
Schools  are  invited  to  contribute,  at 


SUN  DA  Y  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


81 


least  one  nickel  to  aid  the  Sunday 
School  cause;  the  observance  of  Hu- 
mane Day,  on  which  special  efforts  are 
made  to  inculcate  the  principles  and 
practice  of  kindness  and  mercy  to  an- 
imals; the  holding-  of  a  Sunday  School 
Convention  in  November,  1898,  which 
was  numerously  attended  by  delegates 
from  the  different  Schools  and  Stakes 
extending  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  and 
which  proved  to  be  a  grand  success; 
the  delivery  of  a  series  of  lectures  on 
Sunday  School  work  by  Dr.  Karl  G. 
Measer  at  the  special  request  of  the 
officers  of  the  Union;  these  lectures 
were  revised  and  published  by  the 
Union  for  the  benefit  of  the  Sunday 
school  workers;  the  organization  by 
permission  of  the  warden,  of  a  Bible 
class  or  Sunday  school  in  the  Utah 
Penitentiary,  by  President  George  Q. 
Cannon  while  he  and  other  brethren 
were  imprisoned  there  for  conscience 
sake;  the  special  request  each  year 
for  Sunday  school  statistics  from  the 
different  missions  abroad,  the  rapid  in- 
crease of  Sunday  schools  in  those  mis- 
sions; and  the  many  calls  for  gratu- 
itous aid  to  them  and  other  special 
Sunday  schools  responded  to  by  the 
Union;  the  publication  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  Sunday  School  Treatise, 
upon  which  considerable  care,  time  and 
labor  were  bestowed,  and  of  which,  af- 
te**  careful  revision,  a  second  large  edi- 
tion has  recently  been  issued;  the 
publication  of  the  first  and  second  Book 
of  Mormon  Charts,  each  containing  12 
original  illustrations,  also  small  cards 
on  which  are  the  same  pictures  and 
short  scripture  lessons,  and  with  each 
chart  a  guide  to  its  use;  the  prepara- 
tion of  lessons  on  the  Bible,  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  History  of  the  Church 
in  leaflet  form.  The  first  31  numbers 
contain  the  life  of  the  Savior.  The  vast 
amount  of  literary  and  other  work  done 
by  members  of  the  board,  much  of 
which  we  have  not  time  to  even  men- 
tion, has  been  done  without  pecuniary 
compensation.  It  has  been  a  labor  of 
love  and  duty.  Last,  but  not  least, 
interruption  to  the  regular  sessions  of 
the  Sunday  schools  had  become  so 
numerous  through  funerals  and  various 
conferences  being  held  on  Sunday 
mornings,  and  the  effects  of  these  in- 
terruptions had  proved  to  be  so  injuri- 


ous to  this  work  that  the  First  Presi- 
dency published  a  circular  letter  over 
their  own  signatures  to  correct  this 
evil.  This  was  also  in  harmony  with 
the  action  of  President  Young,  in  dis 
continuing  the  Sunday  morning  services 
in  the  Tabernacle,  so  that  they  might 
not  interfere  with  the  Sunday  schools. 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  UNION. 

"First  organization,  November  11, 
1867.  George  Q.  Cannon,  President; 
Edward  L.  Sloan,  secretary;  George 
Goddard  and  Robert  L.  Campbell,  cor- 
responding secretaries;  Brigham  Young, 
Jr.,  Albert  Carrington  and  George  A. 
Smith,  committee  on  books  suitable 
for  Sunday  schools. 

"1872,  George  Q.  Cannon,  general  su- 
perintendent; George  Goddard,  assist- 
ant general  superintendent;  John  B. 
Maiben,  general  secretary;  William  Mc- 
Lachlan,  general  treasurer. 

"In  August,  1875,  Elder  Maiben  hav- 
ing been  called  to  be  Bishop  at  Manti, 
resigned  the  office  of  general  secretary, 
and  Elder  McLachlan  was  appointed 
his  successor.  He  acted  as  secretary 
and  treasurer  for  a  few  months,  when 
he  was  called  on  a  mission  to  New 
Zealand. 

"The  vacancies  thus  caused  were  filled 
by  the  appointment  of  Levi  W.  Rich- 
ards (Dec,  1875)  to  be  the  general  sec- 
retar-  and  George  Reynolds  (Feb., 
1876)  the  general  treasurer  of  the  Union. 
Elder  Reynolds  had  been  acting  as  au- 
ditor and  treasurer,  pro  tem,  of  the 
Union.  At  the  same  time  (Dec,,  1875), 
Thomas  Champneys  was  appointed  as- 
sistant secretary;  and  after  his  removal 
to  Ogden,  John  C.  Cutler  was  appointed 
to  that  office  and  al60  to  be  assistant 
treasurer. 

"In  1878, Samuel  L.  Evans  and  William 
Willis  were  appointed  Sunday  school 
missionaries  at  large.  In  June,  1883, 
the  organization  of  the  general  board 
of  officers  was  made  complete  by  the 
appointment  of  John  Morgan  to  be  the 
second  assistant  general  superintendent 
of  the  Union. 

"After  the  death  of  Elder  Morgan,  on 
July  14th,  1894,  Karl  G.  Maeser  was  ap- 
pointed his  successor  in  the  superin- 
tendency. 

"At  the  close  of  1890  Elder  Richards 
resigned  the  office  of  general  secretary 


2 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


and  John  M.  Whitaker  was  appointed 
to  that  position.  On  his  departure  on 
a  mission  he  was  succeeded,  in  1897,  by 
George  D.  Pyper,  the  present  general 
secretary.  The  resignation  of  Elder 
Cutler  made  a  vacancy  in  the  office  of 
assistant  general  secretary  which  has 
been  filled  by  the  appointment  of  Leo 
Hunsaker. 

"The  decease  of  Elder  George  God- 
dard  in  January,  1899,  left  the  position 
of  first  assistant  general  superintendent 
of  the  Union  vacant. 

"We  cannot  specify  all  the  changes  in 
the  general  board,  but  the  following 
have  been  or  are  now  members  of  it: 
George  Reynolds,  Thomas  C.  Griggs, 
Levi  W.  Richards,  George  C.  Lambert, 
Louisa  Lula  Greene  Richards,  John  C. 
Cutler,  Samuel  L.  Evans,  George  H. 
Taylor,  Abraham  H.  Cannon,  Thomas 

E.  Taylor,  Karl  G.  Maeser,  Joseph  W. 
Summerhays,  Charles  P.  Wilcox, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Joseph  M.  Tanner,  Hugh  J.  Cannon, 
George  Teasdale,  Andrew  Kimball, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  John  W.  Taylor. 

AIDS  TO  THE  BOAKU: 

"L.  John  Nuttall,  James  W.  Ure,  John 

F.  Bennett,  John  M.  Mills,  William  B. 
Dougall,  William  D.  Owen,  Seymour  B. 
Young  and  Christian  D.  Fjeldsted. 

"The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Musical 
Union  was  organized  in  1875;  director, 
Charles  J.  Thomas. 

"The  Musical  Union  was  an  organiza- 
tion of  short  duration;  but  the  willing 
and  efficient  public  services  of  David  O. 
Calder,  Charles  J.  Thomas,  Ebenezer 
Beesley,  Adam  C.  Smyth,  John  S. 
Lewis,  Thomas  C.  Griggs,  George  Care- 
less, Thomas  Mclntyre,  Joseph  J.  Day- 
nes,  Evan  Stephens  and  others  in  pro- 
moting the  musical  interests  of  our 
Sunday  schools  generally,  well  deserve 
remembrance  in  this  brief  review. 

ORGANIZATION. 

"Each  Sunday  school  when  fully  or- 
ganized has  a  superintendent,  first  and 
second  assistant  superintendents,  sec- 
retary, treasurer,  librarian,  chorister, 
and  such  assistant  officers  as  may  be 
needed.  The  school  is  graded  into  de- 
partments, namely:  The  theological, 
second  intermediate,  first  intermediate, 
primary,   and  infant  or  kindergarten. 


Each  department  has  several  teachers, 
one  of  whom  is  appointed  the  head 
teacher  in  the  department. 

"All  the  Sunday  schools  in  a  Stake  are 
organized  with  a  Stake  Sunday  school 
superintendent,  first  and  second  assist- 
ant superintendents,  secretary  and 
treasurer  and  assistant  officers  when 
needed.  Also,  in  many  of  the  Stakes, 
there  are  missionary  aids,  who  visit 
the  Sunday  schools  and  labor  under 
the  direction  of  the  Stake  Sunday  school 
superintendents  to  whom  they  report 
their  labors. 

"Besides  these  are  mission  superinten- 
dents of  Sunday  schools  in  the  different 
missions. 

"All  these  are  included  in  a  general  or- 
ganization entitled  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union.  The  general  supervision 
and  management  of  the  affairs  of  the 
Union  are  vested  in  a  general  board, 
composed  of  a  general  superintendent, 
first  and  second  assistant  general  su- 
perintendents, general  secretary,  gen- 
eral treasurer,  and  assistant  general 
secretary,  an  executive  committee 
and  a  number  of  aids. 

STATISTICS. 

"There  was  no  general  attempt  made 
to  gather  statistics  of  the  Sunday 
schools  until  1872;  since  then  efforts 
have  been  made  each  year  to  secure  full 
and  correct  reports,  but  with  only  par- 
tial success. 

"We  only  attempt  to  give  the  figures 
of  the  two  years,  1872  and  1898. 

"In  1872  there  were  190  schools,  of 
which  41  did  not  report.  In  the  149 
schools  reported  there  were  1,408  officers 
and  teachers  and  13,373  pupils.  Total, 
14,781. 

"In  1898  there  were  forty  Stakes  of 
Zion,  containing  639  Sunday  schools, 11,- 
384  officers  and  teachers  and  93,388 
pupils.  Total  104,772.  Besides  these 
there  were  16  missions  that  reported 
378  Sunday  Schools,  1,933  officers  and 
teachers  and  9,998  pupils.  Total,  11,931. 
The  grand  total  was  116,703  officers, 
teachers  and  pupils. 

"In  conclusion  we  cannot  but  point 
with  gratitude  and  pride  to  the  results 
which,  under  heaven's  continued  bless- 
ings, the  Union  has  already  brought 
about,  and  to  the  bright  and  cheering 
prospects  that  illumine  our  future  and 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JLBILEE. 


83 


bid  us  persevere  in  the  good  work.  To 
say  that  it  has  been  a  potent  instrument 
of  religious  culture,  of  social  refinement, 
and  moral  worth,  a  factor  in  the  devel- 
opment of  God's  purposes,  a  bond  of 
union  among  his  people,  a  source  of 
strength  to  the  Church,  and  an  aid  to 
the  Priesthood  would,  we  submit,  not 
be  claiming  too  much;  and  this  posi- 
tion is  all  the  more  gratifying  when 
we  consider  how  vast  has  been  the  la- 
bor performed  and  how  slight  has  been 
the  cost  in  dollars  and  cents,  to  the 
community.  The  officers,  committees, 
etc.,  have  been  veritable  workers  with- 
out purse  and  scrip.  We  believe,  though 
perhaps  in  our  zeal  we  may  err,  that 
seldom,  if  ever,  have  as  great  results 
been  achieved  with  so  small  or  so  few 
contributions  from  the  pockets  of  the 
people;  and  we  trust  in  future  reports 
to  be  able  to  state  that  our  publication 
department  has  become  self-sustaining, 
or,  better  still,  a  source  of  income  to  the 
institution.  For  we  have  an  ardent  de- 
sire to  increase  the  value  of  our  literary 
productions,  and  so  continue  until  the 
works  published  by  the  Union  shall 
have  become  a  power  in  the  land  for 
righteousness,  and  for  our  children's 
salvation — a  power  for  God  and  His 
truth." 

GENERAL,  SUPERINTENDENT  GEO. 
Q.  CANNON 

next  introduced  the  members  of  the 
first  Sunday  school,  saying: 

"On  the  left  of  the  stand  are  the  sur- 
viving members  of  the  first  Sunday 
school,  of  which  we  have  heard  a  des- 
cription by  Elder  Lyman,  and  the  roll 
will  be  called.  The  original  roll,  if 
there  ever  was  one,  cannot  be  found, 
but.  after  years  of  inquiry,  a  number 
of  those  who  were  members  of  that 
school  have  been  found,  and  their 
names  are  enrolled  and  will  be  read  by 
the  secretary,  and,  as  they  are  read,  we 
wish  each  member  to  arise  and  say, 
'present.'  If  there  are  any  who  are  ab- 
sent, whose  names  are  called.  Brother 
Summerhays  will  explain  the  cause  of 
their  absence.  Then  badges  will  be 
given  to  them." 

SECRETARY  GEORGE  D.  PTPER 

called  the  roll  of  members  of 
the  first  Sunday  school,  the 
response     to     the     names     of  those 


who  were  absent  being  made  by 
Elder  Joseph  W.  Summerhays,  of  the 
Sunday  School  Union    general  board. 

|The  roll  is  as  follows: 

,    Richard    Ballantyne,    died    Nov.  8, 

11898. 

|   Angus  M.  Cannon,  Salt  Lake  City, 
j  "Joseph   J.   Taylor,   Manti,  Utah. 
I   Jacob    Peart,    Farmers    ward,  Salt 
Lake  County. 

Mary  Ann  Taylor,  died  in  California 
about  ten  years  ago. 

Emily  Hoagland  Cannon,  Salt  Lake 
City. 

Henry  Home,  Mesa  City,  Ariz. 
Adelia    West    Hoagland,    Salt  Lake 
City. 

John  T.  Rich,  died  in  Brigham  City, 
a  year  or  two  ago. 

John  Turnbow,  Kamas,  Summit  Co., 
Utah. 

George  J.  Taylor,  Salt  Lake  City. 

David  H.  Cannon,  St.  George,  Utah. 

James  Phelps,  went  to  Australia  in 
1856.  Never  returned. 

Martha  Van  Cott  Price,  Goshen, 
Utah. 

Elizabeth  Hoagland,  died  January  25, 

1882. 

Margaret  Oakley  Best,  Salt  Lake 
City. 

Joseph  S.  Home,  Richfield,  Utah. 
Richard  Taylor,  Ogden,  Utah. 
Elizabeth  Pugmire  Taylor,  Salt  Lake 
City. 

Sophronia  Ellen  Leonora  Turnbow 
Carter,  St.  George.  Utah. 

Ann  Longstroth  Whitney,  Mendon, 
Utah,  wife  of  John  Whitney. 

Augusta  Braddock  Clayton,  Salt  Lake 
City,  wife  of  the  late  Wm.  Clayton. 

George  A.  Peart.  Randolph,  Utah. 

Lydia  Phelps  Thorp,  Salt  Lake  City. 

R.  Frank  Turnbow,  Farmers  ward. 

Samuel  H.  B.  Smith,  Salt  Lake  City. 

Those  who  responded  as  present  were: 
Angus  M.  Cannon,  Jacob  Peart,  Emily 
Hoagland  Cannon,  Adelia  West  Hoag- 
land, George  J.  Taylor.  David  H.  Can- 
non, Martha  Van  Cott  Price,  Margaret 
Oakley  Best,  Joseph  S.  Home,  Eliza- 
beth Pugmire  Taylor,  Augusta  Brad- 
dock  Clayton,  Lydia  Phelps  Thorp,  and 
Samuel  H.  B.  Smith. 

Special  badges  had  been  prepared  for 
these  brethren  and  sisters,  and  they 
were  pinned  upon  them  by  a  committee 
composed  of  the  daughters  of  the  mem- 
bers of  this  first  school. 


81 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


ELDER  ANGUS  M.  CANNON. 

a  member  of  the  first  school,  spoke  as 
follows : 

"The  impression  made  upon  my  mind 
this  evening,  compared  with  my  at- 
tendance at  the  first  Sabbath  school,  is 
very  great.  There  may  have  been  fifty 
scholars  in  the  original  Sabbath  school 
during  the  time  that  it  was  held  in 
Brother  Ballantyne's  house,  but  if  there 
were  a  dozen  persons  present  when  the 
class  was  formed,  I  fail  to  remember  it. 
The  Fourteenth  ward  was  fenced  with 
poles  around  the  entire  ward,  bars 
being  placed  at  the  entrance  of  each 
street.  Brother  Ballantyne's  house 
was  new,  and  was  made  very  comfort- 
able with  benches  constructed  hastily 
for  our  accommodation.  Brother  Bal- 
lantyne's soul  was  swallowed  up  in  the 
good  effects-  that  this  school  would  have 
upon  the  youth  of  this  people;  and  I 
will  say  the  impressions  that  were  cre- 
ated upon  my  mind  regarding  the  ob- 
ject that  God  has  in  calling  us  from 
the  world  unto  Zion  was  marked  and 
has  helped  to  shape  my  character  up  to 
the  present  time. 

"We  were  familiar  with  poverty.  The 
meeting  house  that  was  occupied  in  this 
city  stood  on  the  southeast  corner  of 
this  block,  known  as  the  mud-covered 
bowery,  constructed  of  Spanish  adobies, 
one  foot  by  eighteen  inches  in  size.  The 
meeting  place  we  occupied  in  the  Four- 
teenth ward  was  in  the  house  of  Dr. 
Richardson,  a  little  log  hut.  The  meet- 
ing house  we  occupied  in  the  Seventh 
ward  was  Samuel  Pitehforth's  resi- 
dence, where  testimony  meetings  were 
held,  and  faith  in  God  was  promoted 
in  our  hearts.  We  rejoiced  in  the  testi- 
mony that  God  gave  us  of  His  truth, 
having  been  informed  by  Brother  Bal- 
lantyne  that  God  had  indeed  restored 
the  Gospel,  established  His  Priesthood 
among  men,  called  us  from  darkness 
untO'  light,  from  the  world  unto  Zion, 
and  that  we  were  not  to  be  of  the  world, 
but  that  we  were  to  be  the  children  of 
God,  under  the  everlasting  covenant; 
being  taught  that  Joseph  the  Prophet, 
and  Hyrum,  his  brother,  had  been  mar- 
tyred for  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and 
that  we  should  be  devoted  to  His  cause, 
deny  ourselves  luxuries,  be  content  with 
the  necessaries  of  life,  living  in  houses 


constructed  by  our  industry,  and  pos- 
sessing sufficient  comfort  to  promote 
our  health  and  give  us  strength,  that 
we  might  cultivate  these  then  barren 
wastes,  procure  the  necessaries  of  life, 
carry  the  Gospel  to  a  dark  and  benight- 
ed world,  proclaiming  that  God  has 
spoken  from  heaven  for  the  regenera- 
tion of  mankind,  and  to  teach  us  that 
He  was  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  that 
our  destiny  was  to  become  His  children 
and  enter  into  His  celestial  presence. 

"How  faithfully  Brother  Ballantyne's 
testimony  has  been  observed  in  the  in- 
crease of  Sunday  schools,  is  evidenced 
tonight  in  the  number  that  are  here  as- 
sembled. And  when  I  remember  that 
God  has  promised  us  this  increase  and 
prosperity,  and  still  greater  increase 
and  prosperity,  provided  we  are  loyal  to 
Him,  every  fibre  of  my  being  seems  to 
enter  in  with  my  whole  soul  to 
pledge  God  loyalty,  to  observe 
faithfully,  to  pay  my  tithes  and 
offerings  unto  Him,  in  hope  that 
He  will  give  my  children  faith  and 
make  them  firm  supporters  of  His  work 
in  the  establishment  of  His  Gospel  as 
He  has  revealed  it  and  restored  His 
Priesthood  in  these  the  last  days. 

"I  thank  you  for  this  opportunity,  and 
for  the  honor  conferred  upon  me,  and 
pray  God's  blessing  to  be  upon  the  gen- 
eral superintendency,  the  superinten- 
dents, the  teachers  and  the  scholars, 
and  all  the  associations  of  Zion  through- 
out the  whole  world,  in  the  name  of  Je- 
sus. Amen." 

"Zion's  Sunday  School  Jubilee  Hymn," 
(words  and  music  written  for  this  occa- 
sion) was  sung  by  the  Tabernacle  choir. 

Then  followed  the  presentation  of  the 
gold  medal  awarded  to  Emily  H.  Wood- 
mansee  for  the  best  hymn;  also  gold 
medal  to  the  Rev.  W.  Daunt  Scott,  for 
the  best  musical  composition. 

The  presentation  was  made  by 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT, 

of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
board,  who  spoke  as  follows: 

"A  committee  consisting  of  John 
Nicholson,  Joshua  H.  Paul  and  George 
H.  Brimhall  was  selected  by  the  Sunday 
School  Union  board  to  examine  all 
hymns  that  were  submitted  in  this  com- 
petition and  to  decide  upon  the  best 
composition.  The  committee  were  unan- 


SUJS/DA  V  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


85 


imous  in  awarding  the  gold  medal  for 
the  words  of  this  hymn  to  Sister  Emily 
H.  Woodmansee. 

"The  committee  appointed  to  examine 
the  music  and  make  the  award  for  the 
best  musical  composition  consisted  of 
Arthur  Shepherd,  Anthony  Lund  and 
Squire  Coop.  They  were  unanimous  in 
awarding  the  gold  medal  to  Rev.  W. 
Daunt  Scott. 
'■'±'he  Sunday  School  Union  always  has 
endeavored  to  get  the  best  possible  re- 
sults by  giving  medals  and  prizes  for 
musical  compositions,  and  it  gives  me 
much  pleasure,  on  behalf  of  the  board, 
to  present  these  medals  to  Sister  Emily 
H.  Woodmansee  and  to  Rev.  W.  Daunt 
Scott." 

The  medals  were  pinned  upon  the 
prize  winners  by  Mary  Alice  Hoagland 
Cannon  and  Maggie  Peart  Cardall. 

A  POLYGLOT  RECITATION  OF  THE 
ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

was  then  given  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Elder  George  Teasdale,  of  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  board.  In 
this  recitation  a  number  of  persons  rep- 
resenting different  nationalities  dressed 
in  the  native  costume,  recited  in  the 
native  tongue  the  Articles  of 
Faith.  On  opening  this  exercise.  Elder 
Teasdale  read  a  portion  of  the  107th 
Psalm,  as  follows: 

"O  give  thanks  unto  the  Lord,  for  He 
is  good;  for  His  mercy  endureth  for- 
ever. 

"Let  the  redeemed  of  the  Lord  say  so. 
whom  He  hath  redeemed  from  the  hand 
of  the  enemy; 

"And  gathered  them  out  of  the  lands, 
from  the  east,  and  from  the  west,  from 
the  north,  and  from  the  south. 

"They  wandered  in  the  wilderness  in 
a  solitary  way;  they  found  no  city  to 
dwell  in. 

"Hungry  and  thirsty,  their  soul  faint- 
ed in  them  . 

."Then  they  cried  unto  the  Lord  in 
their  trouble,  and  He  delivered  them 
out  of  their  distresses. 

"And  He  led  them  forth  by  the  right 
way.  that  they  might  go  to  a  city  of 
habitation. 

"Oh  that  men  would  praise  the  Lord 
for  His  groodness,  and  for  His  wonder- 
ful works  to  the  children  of  men!" 

The  recitation  of  the  Articles  of  Faith 
was  in  the  following  order: 

"1.  We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Recitation  in  German,  by  Gustave 
Weileman  and  Lena  Dana,  Swiss  and 


German  representatives  from  Bear 
Lake  Stake. 

"2.  We  believe  that  men  will  be  pun- 
ished for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for 
Adam's  transgression." 

Recitation  in  Danish,  by  Christian  T. 
Nelson  and  Jensenna  M.  Anderson, 
Danish  representatives  from  Sevier 
Stake. 

"3.  We  believe  that,  through  the 
atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel." 

Recitation  in  Spanish,  by  S.  C. 
Richardson  and  Pearl  Whiting,  repre- 
sentatives from  Juarez  Stake,  Mexico. 

"4.  We  believe  that  the  first  princi- 
ples and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are: 
First,  Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ; 
second,  Repentance;  third,  Baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins; 
fourth,  Laying  on  of  Hands  for  the  Gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Recitation  in  Lamanitish  tongue  (Sho- 
shone), by  Ammon  Pubigee  and  Willie 
Ottogary,  American  Indians,  represen- 
tatives from  Malad  Stake;  then  in  the 
Maori  language,  by  Hirini  Whaanga 
and  Mere  Whaanga,  Maoris,  representa- 
tives from  Salt  Lake  Stake;  in  Samoan 
language,  by  Angus  Alston  Jr.,  and 
Tessie  Garn,  representatives  of  Salt 
Lake  Stake,  who  had  been  on  missions 
to  the  Samoan  Islands;  in  Kanaka,  by 
Henry  Halemanu  and  Hannah  Kaaepa, 
Hawaiians,  representatives  from 
Iosepa  Colony;  in  Tahitian,  by  Eugene 
Cannon  and  Frank  Cutler,  representa- 
tives from  Salt  Lake  Stake,  who  had 
been  on  missions  to  the  Society  Islands. 

"5.  We  believe  that  a  man  must  be 
called  of  God,  by  'prophecy,  and  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,'  by  those  who  are 
in  authority,  to  preach  the  Gospel  and 
administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof." 

Recitation  in  Swedish,  by  David 
Holmgreen  and  Emma  S.  Jensen,  Swed- 
ish representatives  from  Box  Elder 
Stake. 

"6.  We  believe  in  the  same  organiza- 
tion that  existed  in  the  primitive 
Church,  namely,  apostles,  prophets,  pas- 
tors, teachers,  evangelists,  etc." 

Recitation  in  Dutch,  by  Kryn  Van 
and  Maggie  Abels,  natives  of  the  Neth- 
erlands, representatives  from  Weber 
Stake. 

"7.  We  believe  in  the  gift  of  tongues, 
prophecy,  revelation,  visions,  healing, 
interpretation  of  tongues,  etc." 

Recitation  in  Welsh,  by  Elders  David 
L.  Davis  and  Evan  Stephens,  repre- 
sentatives from  Salt  Lake  Stake. 


86 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL"  JUBILEE. 


"8.  We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the 
word  of  God,  as  far  as  it  is  translated 
correctly;  we  also  believe  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God." 

Recitation  in  French,  by  Xavier  Sager 
and  Marie  Antoinette  Lang,  French  re- 
presentatives from  Salt  Lake  Stake. 

"9.  We  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 
vealed, all  that  He  does  now  reveal, 
and  we  believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal 
many  great  and  important  things  per- 
taining to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

Italian  representatives  had  been  as- 
signed this  recitation  in  Italian,  but 
they  failed  to  respond  and  the  article 
was  read  in  English  by  Elder  Teasdale. 

"10.  We  believe  in  the  literal  gather- 
ing of  Israel  and  in  the  restoration  of 
the  Ten  Tribes.  That  Zion  will  be  built 
upon  this  continent.  That  Christ  will 
reign  personally  upon  the  earth,  and 
that  the  earth  will  be  renewed  and  re- 
ceive its  paradisaical  glory." 

Recitation  in  Norwegian,  by  Leonard 
Willardson  and  Eleanor  Olson,  Norwe- 
gian representatives  from  Sanpete 
Stake. 

"11.  We  claim  the  privilege  of  wor- 
shiping Almighty  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  our  conscience,  and  allow  all 
men  the  same  privilege,  let  them  wor- 
ship how,  where  or  what  they  may." 

Recitation  in  Icelandic,  by  Loftar 
Bjarnason  and  Dena  Bjarnason,  Ice- 
landers, representatives  from  Utah 
stake. 

"12.  We  believe  in  being  subject  to 
kings,  presidents,  rulers  and  magis- 
trates, in  obeying,  honoring  and  sus- 
taining the  law." 

Recitation  in  Turkish,  by  Philip  May- 
cock  and  Alice  Howarth,  representa- 
tives from  Salt  Lake  Stake,  the  first 
named  having  been  on  a  mission  to 
Turkey. 

"13.  We  believe  in  being  honest,  true, 
chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  do- 
ing good  to  all  men;  indeed  we  may  say 
that  we  follow  the  admonition  of  Paul. 
'We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all 
things,'  we  have  endured  many  things, 
and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things. 
If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or 
of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things." 

Recitation  in  Celtic,  by  Wm.  A. 
Morton  and  companion,  Irish  represen- 
tatives from  Salt  Lake  Stake;  then  in 
Scotch  dialect,  by  Robert  Hogg  and 
Nettie  Durrant,  Scotch  representatives 
from  Morgan  Stake;  and  in  English,  by 
David  Jeffs  and  Sister  Hyde,  American, 
("United  States),  representatives  from 
Davis  Stake,  by  Roger  Horrocks  and 


Sarah  Roberts,  English  representatives 
from  Wasatch  Stake,  and  by  Ezra  C. 
Robinson  and  Zina  T.  Card,  Canadian 
representatives  from  Alberta  Stake. 

Elder  Teasdale  then  stated  that,  in 
addition  to  the  nations  that  had  been 
represented  in  the  recitation  of  the  Ar- 
ticles of  Faith  the  Gospel  had  been 
preached  in  other  lands,  as  follows: 

Isle  of  Man,  Channel  Islands,  Finland, 
Russia,  Hungary,  Bohemia,  Austria, 
Belgium,  Friendly  Islands,  Marquesas 
Islands,  Tuamotu  Islands,  Cook  Archi- 
pelago, Leaward  Islands,  Austral  Is- 
lands, Palestine,  Turkey  in  Europe, 
Danubian  principalities,  Spain,  Hin- 
dustan, Malta,  Africa,  China,  Siam, 
Chili,  East  Indies,  West  Indies,  Greece, 
Philippines,  Japan  and  other  countries. 

All  of  those  who  had  taken  part  in 
the  recitation  of  the  Articles  of  Faith 
then  responded  in  unison  to  the  follow- 
ing invitation  from    Elder  Teasdale: 

"Now  we  will  repeat  in  concert  what 
has  brought  this  all  about,  this  wonder- 
ful gathering  from  the  north,  south, 
east  and  west,  by  a  recitation  of  the 
sixth  and  seventh  verses  of  the  four- 
teenth chapter  of  Revelation,  in  the  En- 
glish language,  by  the  representatives 
of  these  nations."  The  passages  recited 
in  concert  are  as  follows: 

"6.  And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in 
the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that 
dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation, 
and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people." 

"7.  Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear 
God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour 
of  his  judgment  is  come;  and  worship 
him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and 
the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

When  this  had  been  done  Elder  Teas- 
dale  spoke  to  the  vast  assemblage  as 
follows: 

"We  bear  testimony  that  this  angel 
has  flown  through  the  midst  of  heaven, 
and  restored  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
thus  bringing  to  pass  the  gathering  of 
this  people,  whom  God  hath  redeemed 
from  the  hand  of  the  enemy,  gathered 
from  the  north,  south,  east  and  west, 
and  brought  to  the  marvelous  light  of 
His  everlasting  Gospel;  and  this  won- 
derful, immense,  assemblage  of  people 
gathered  here  tonight,  to  the  glory  of 
God,  our  Eternal  Father,  has  been  ac- 
complished by  the  visitation  of  this 
angel  and  the  restoration  of  the  Ever- 
lasting Gospel.  To  God  and  the  Lamb  be 
all  glory,  forever  and  ever.  Amen." 

It  was  announced  by  President  Geo. 
Q.  Cannon  that  the  Deaf  Mute  Sunday 
school  was  on  the  program  for  the  reci- 
tation of  the  Lord's  Prayer,  but  the 
school  was  quarantined  owing  to  the 
prevalence  of  scarlet  fever.    Instead  of 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


87 


this  exercise  the  assistant  superinten- 
dent of  the  Deaf  Mute  and  Blind  Sun- 
day school,  Elder  Laron  Pratt,  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  gave,  in  the  deaf  mute 
sign  language,  the  hymn,  "O,  My 
Father,"  which  was  vocalized  by  his 
daughter,  Maude  Pratt-Griggs,  who 
sang  the  hymn  in  the  English  language. 

President  Geo.  Q.  Cannon  then  stated 
that  the  school  for  the  blind  being 
quarantined  also,  on  account  of  scarlet 
fever,  the  members  could  not  be  pre- 
sent, but  in  place  thereof,  Elder  Joseph 
Hodgins,  blind  from  his  birth,  read  from 
the  29th  chapter  of  Isaiah,  the  9th,  10th, 
11th,  12th,  13th,  18th  and  19th  verses. 
The  reading  was  from  a  Bible  for  the 
blind,  the  reader  following  the  raised 
letters  with  his  fingers.  The  verses  are 
as  follows: 

"9.  Stay  yourselves,  and  wonder; 
cry  ye  out,  and  cry:  they  are  drunken, 
but  not  with  wine;  they  stagger,  but 
not  with  strong  drink. 

"10.  For  the  Lord  hath  poured  out 
upon  you  the  spirit  of  deep  sleep,  and 
hath  closed  your  eyes;  the  prophets 
and  your  rulers,  the  seers  hath  he  cov- 
ered. 

"11.  And  the  vision  of  all  is  become 
unto  you  as  the  words  of  a  book  that 
is  sealed,  which  men  deliver  to  one  that 
is  learned,  saying,  Read  this,  I  pray 
thee:  and  he  saith,  I  cannot:  for  it  is 
sealed: 

"12.  And  the  book  is  delivered  to  him 
that  is  not  learend,  saying,  Read  this, 
I  pray  thee:  and  he  saith,  I  am  not 
learned. 

"13.  Wherefore  the  Lord  said,  For- 
asmuch as  this  people  draw  near  me 
with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do 
honour  me,  but  have  removed  their 
heart  far  from  me,  and  their  fear  to- 
ward me  is  taught  by  the  prophet  of 
men : 

"18.  And  in  that  day  shall  the  deaf 
hear  the  words  of  the  book,  and  the 
eyes  of  the  blind  shall  see  out  of  ob- 
scurity, and  out  of  darkness. 

"19.  The  meek  also  shall  increase 
their  joy  in  the  Lord,  and  the  poor 
among  men  shall  rejoice  in  the  Holy 
One  of  Israel." 

General  Superintendent  George  Q. 
Cannon  then  introduced  in  order  the 
Sunday  school  officers  and  teachers  who 
had  been  in  service  for  25,  30,  35,  40  and 
45  years,  respectively,  and  badges  were 
pinned  onthe  breasts  of  those  present 
by  daughters  of  members  of  the  first 
Sunday  school. 

While  the  badges  were  being  distri- 
buted a  selection  from  "Lucia  di  Lam- 
mermoor,"  by  Donizetti,  was  played  by 
Held's  Military  band. 


PRESIDENT   LORENZO  SNOW 

then  briefly  addressed  the  vast  congre- 
gation as  follows: 

"I  wish  that  I  had  words  to  express 
ny  astonishment  at  what  I  have  wit- 
nessed during  the  accomplishment  of 
this  program.  I  feel  in  my  heart  to  say, 
God  bless  the  Sunday  School  Union,  and 
all  who  have  taken  part  in  pushing  for- 
ward its  interests.  In  all  my  travels 
through  the  world  I  have  never  seen 
anything  that  delighted  me  more  than 
that  which  I  have  witnessed  this  even- 
ing. Your  Superintendent,  President 
George  Q.  Cannon, — I  ask  that  the  Lord 
will  pour  His  Holy  Spirit  upon  him 
abundantly  in  the  future,  as  He  has 
done  in  the  past,  in  carrying  forward 
the  interests  of  this  grand  and  glorious 
Sunday  school  work.  Nothing  can  be 
shown  in  the  world  like  that  that  has 
been  shown  tonight.  God  bless  every 
person  who  has  been  engaged 
in  the  interests  of  the  Sun- 
day schools — the  superintendents, 
the  aids,  and  everyone  that  has  thus 
been  employed,  God  bless  them.  He 
most  assuredly  has  blessed  them,  and 
a  success  has  been  accomplished  that 
is  certainly  wonderful.  Gor>  bless  the 
Sunday  School  Union.  Amen." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 
Also  addressed  the  meeting  as  fol- 
lows: 

"It  is  said  somewhere  in  the  good  old 
book  that  there  is  nothing  new  under 
the  sun.  That  which  we  have  witnessed 
here  this  evening  comes  about  as  near 
being  a  contradiction  of  this  scripture 
as  any  thing  I  ever  have  seen.  We  will 
not  dispute  the  language  of  the  wise 
man  in  relation  to  this  matter.  We  will 
be  contented  with  saying  that  it  is 
something  that  is  new  under  the  electric 
lights.  The  repetition  of  the  "Articles 
of  Faith'  in  nineteen  different  languages 
and  dialects  (the  result  of  the  procla- 
mation of  this  Gospel  within  the  last 
sixty  years)  is  something  of  which  we 
may  well  be  proud.  I  congratulate  the 
Superintendent  of  the  Sunday  Schools 
and  his  efficient  aids  and  assistants,  on 
the  most  wonderful  display  that  has 
ever  been  made  here,  this  evening,  of 
the  progress  that  is  being  made  in  the 
Sunday  Schools,  and  in  this  glorious 
effort  to  promulgate  the  Truth.  I  can 
only  repeat  the  words  of  our  beloved 


88 


SUNDAY  SCHOOL  JUBILEE. 


President,  God  bless  our  Sunday 
Schools." 

PRESIDENT  GEORGE  Q.  CANNON 

then  said: 

"It  is  only  proper  that  credit  should 
be  given  to  those  who  have  done  the 
work  in  preparing  for  this  Jubilee.  The 
brethern  have  taken  hold  of  this  with 
great  zeal,  and,  as  you  have  seen,  they 
have  made  a  success  of  that  which  they 
have  undertaken.  I  cannot  claim  any 
credit  myself,  for  my  other  duties  have 
absorbed  my  time  to  a  great  extent. 
Still,  I  have  counseled  and  directed  to 
some  extent.  The  workers  on  the 
Board,  however,  and  those  who  have 
assisted  them,  deserve  whatever  credit 
there  is  for  that  which  we  have  seen 
and  heard  here  tonight.  I  am  pleased 
to  be  able  to  give  them  this  meed  of 
praise. 

"I  may  say  that  the  Sunday  school 
has  been  very  dear  to  me.  When  I 
returned  from  Europe,  after  filling  con- 
tinuous missions  for  a  long  time,  I  felt 
there  was  an  immense  field  in  Zion  for 
the  labors  of  the  Elders.  I  had  seen 
how  few  souls  could  be  gathered 
abroad,  and  when  I  reflected  upon  the 
numbers  of  our  children  at  home,  I 
felt  a  burning  desire  to  spend  all  the 
time  I  could  in  trying  to  teach  them 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  Upon  my 
return,  in  1864,  I  organized  a  Sunday 
School  in  the  14th  Ward,  and  other 
schools  were  organized  directly  after- 


wards.. As  soon  thereafer  as  I  could 
I  published  a  little  work,  which  I  named 
the  'Juvenile  Instructor.'  The  'Juv- 
enile Instructor'  has  been  one  of  the 
best  labors  that  I  have  ever  been  en- 
gaged in,  because  I  have  felt  that  it 
was  doing  good  to  our  children.  We 
can  see  today  what  an  immense  field 
is  spread  around  us,  furnisning  every 
opportunity  for  every  one  who  desires 
to  thrust  in  his  sickle  and  reap. 
"I  am  thankful  to  have  President  Snow 
and  President  Smith  here  to  bless  us, 
as  they  have  tonight,  and  I  pray  that 
their  blessings  will  be  fulfilled,  as  I 
know  they  will  be." 

Gen.  Supt.  George  Q.  Cannon  an- 
nounced that  those  entitled  to  badges, 
who  had  not  received  them,  could  ob- 
tain them  by  calling  on  the  secretary  of 
the  Sunday  School  Union,  in  the  Union 
office  in  the  Templeton  building,  Salt 
Lake  City. 

The  choir  and  congregation,  accom- 
panied by  the  organ  and  Held's  mili- 
tary band,  rendered,  "Gather  Round  the 
Standard  Bearer." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  El- 
der John  B.  Maiben,  and  as  the  audi- 
ence dispersed  Prof.  Jos.  J.  Daynes  ren- 
dered selections  on  the  grand  organ. 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER, 

General  Secretary. 

JAMES  H.  ANDERSON. 

Press  Representative. 
LEO.  HUNSAKER, 

Reporter. 


A 


rticks  of  Taitb* 

J\  llCW  CDUrCb  UIOrR,  498  page-,  by  Dr.  James 
E.  Talmage,  written  by  appointment  from 
the  First  Presidency.  Designed  as  a  text 
book  for  use  in  Church  Schools,  Sunday 
Schools,  Improvement  Associations,  quor- 
ums, and  for  individual  study.  Elegantly 
bound  in  all  styles. 

PRICES: 

Cloth  .  .  -  $1.00 

Leather  1.50 

Leather  Gilt  2  00 

Morocco  Gilt  2. 50 

FOR  SALE  BY 

rTHE  DESERET  NEWS. 

Special  Terms  to  Dealers,  Agents,  Classes  and  Quorums. 


"ClK  BOOR  Of  lH0rm0tt."  Two  lectures  from 'the 
above  work,  compiled  in  pamphlet  form  by 
Dr.  Talmage  for  convenience  in  study. 
Price  10  cents. 


A 


deled  Upon 


A  bright,  interesting  story,  illustrating  the 
principle  of  pre- existence  as  believed  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Written  by  the  talented  home  author, 
Nephi  Anderson. 

Read  it  Yourself  and  Send  a  Copy  to  Your  Friends. 


Price,  Twenty-five  Cents. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS,   SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH. 


TO  MISSIONARIES: 


To  aid  Missionaries  in 
their  fields  of  labor  the 


Seni-Weekly 


Will  be  sent  to  subscrib- 
ers sent  in  by  them  at 


One  Dollar  a  Yoar 


\»/ 
\>/ 

vV 
\»> 

v)/ 

\»> 

i 

V)/ 

vt/ 


! 

1 

vV 

1 


