O  V 
NINETY-FOURTH 

ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

01  me  vjflurcii  01  jesus  vjnrisi 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

April  4,  5  and  6 
1924 

With  a  Full  Report  of  all 
the  'Discourses 

1=1 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

\  / 
Pit  

^fiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiniiiiiiirauiiiiiiiiticaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiimiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiuiitiiiiicaii^ 

I  HISTORY  OF  I 
1    the  CHURCH  | 

£1  Compiled  by  the   Church  Historians 

and  published  by  the  Church  .<^0 

1       IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES  j 

Completing  the  First  Period.  5 
3  = 
"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with 

|         introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and 
S         Private  Library  should  have  a  set. 

Cloth — Embossed,  per  vol  $2.50  Postpaid 

|  Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol...  3.50 

|  Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,  vol.  6.00 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  con- 
nection with  the  study  of  Church  History  in  all  of 
1         the  activities  of  the  Church. 

SEND  FOR  OUR  NEW  CATALOG  FREE 

|  DESERET  I 

I  BOOK  I 

1  COMPANY  J 

§  44  E.  SOUTH  TEMPLE  ST. 

g  SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

miicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiimiiiMiiiuiiiiiiiEaiHiiiiiiiiiEaimiiiiiiiiKaiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiraiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiJH 


Ninety-Fourth  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  94th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
at  10  a.  m.,  Friday,  April  4,  1924. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  the  opening  of 
the  Conference. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Anthony  W.  Ivins. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Rudger  Clawson,*  George  Albert 
Smith,**  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,f  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman, 
Melvin  J.  Ballard.t 

Presiding  Patriarch:    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Seymour  B.  Young,  B.  H. 
Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith, 
John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and 
the  following  assistants,  Andrew  Jenson,  B.  H.  Roberts,  A.  William 
Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  were  present  from  the  ninety  stakes  of  Zion, 
also  their  counselors,  patriarchs,  bishops  of  wards  and  their  coun- 
selors from  972  wards  and  independent  branches  of  the  Church,  and 
numerous  other  prominent  officers  representing  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood  and  men  and  women  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  presidents  as  follows  were  in  attendance:  B.  H.  Roberts, 
Eastern  States ;  John  H.  Taylor,  Northern  States ;  Samuel  O.  Ben- 

*Reed  Sraoot  was  absent  in  Washington,  D.  C. 

**Present  on  Sunday,  absent  Friday  and  Saturday  owing  to  illness. 
fDavid  O.  McKay  is  presiding  over  the  European  Mission, 
tjohn  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent  in  Washington,  D.  C,  in  the  interest  of  the 
Government  reclamation  service. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


nion,  Central  States ;  Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  John  M. 
Knight,  Western  States ;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California ;  Brigham 
S.  Young,  Northwestern  States;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico;  Joseph 
Quinney,  Jr.,  Canada;  and  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information, 
Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  Tabernacle  was  filled  to  capacity  with  people  from  all  parts 
of  the  Church. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  N.  Taylor,  presi- 
dent of  the  Utah  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Guide  us,  O  thou  great 
Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  certainly  is  a  very  inspiring  sight  to  see  this  house  full  and 
people  standing  at  this  our  first  session  of  the  conference. 

THE  CHURCH  IN  EXCELLENT  CONDITION 

I  rejoice  in  the  growth  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  at  home  and  abroad.  I  rejoice  in  feeling  that  we  have 
every  cause  to  be  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  blessings  that  have  come 
to  us  during  the  past  year.  I  believe  that  I  am  within  the  bounds  of 
truth  when  I  say  that  the  Church  was  never  in  a  better  condition 
than  at  the  present  time,  that  there  was  never  greater  unity  existing 
among  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  more  anxiety  and  de- 
termination to  serve  the  Lord,  than  today;  that  we  never  had  more 
energetic  and  faithful  men  presiding  over  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  in 
the  wards  and  missions  of  the  Church  than  today;  neither  have  we 
had  more  energetic,  faithful  men  and  women,  than  have  been  presid- 
ing and  are  presiding  at  the  present  time,  as  general,  stake  and 
ward  officers  in  our  various  auxiliary  organizations. 

GOOD  WORK  BY  THE  AUXILIARY  ORGANIZATIONS 

It  fell  to  my  lot,  yesterday  afternoon,  to  address  the  conference 
of  the  Relief  Society  for  a  few  minutes.  The  Assembly  Hall  was 
filled  to  overflowing,  and  many  people  were  standing.  I  am  con- 
vinced that  such  a  gathering  as  that  of  active,  wide-awake,  energetic 
women-members  could  not  be  witnessed  among  any  other  people, 
who  are  no  more  numerous  than  are  the  Latter-day  Saints,  Our  Relief 
Societies  are  doing  a  very  remarkable  and  wonderful  work  in  looking 
after  the  sick  and  the  afflicted.  I  remember  one  very  good  friend  of 
mine,  a  non-member  of  the  Church,  said  to  his  wife  just  before  he 
passed  away,  so  she  told  me,  that  no  other  people,  in  his  estimation 
— and  he  had  traveled  nearly  all  over  the  world — took  as  good  care 
of  their  sick  and  looked  after  their  poor  as  well  as  do  the  Latter-day 
Saints.    They  are  really  one  great  family  of  brothers  and  sisters, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


united  with  a  common  bond  of  love  and  respect.  Our  young  people, 
and  those  who  look  after  the  children  of  the  Primary  Association  are 
also  doing  a  splendid  work. 

SATISFACTORY  RFPORTS   FROM   THE  MISSIONS 

The  reports  from  our  Missions  from  all  over  the  world  are  very 
satisfactory ;  and  the  one  call,  claim,  or  plea  that  is  made  is,  "Send  us 
more  missionaries."  There  is  only  one  real  exception  to  this,  and 
that  is  in  Japan.  There  is  no  exception  in  the  call  for  more  mission- 
aries in  that  field,  but,  after  twenty-odd  years  of  labor  in  that  coun- 
try, we  are  convinced  that  not  a  dozen  people  have  been  thoroughly 
converted  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  seriously 
considered  the  question  of  closing  that  mission,  but  have  not  yet 
arrived  at  any  conclusion. 

ENLIGHTENING  STATISTICS 

It  has  been  customary,  at  April  conferences,  to  give  some  statistics 
to  the  people  regarding  the  expenditure  of  their  tithing.  Nearly  the 
entire  tithing  paid  during  the  past  year  has  been  returned,  in  various 
appropriations,  to  the  different  stakes  of  Zion. 

General — The  amount  returned  to  the  stakes  from  the  tithes,  for 
stake  and  ward  purposes,  during  the  past  year  and  for  main- 
tenance and  operation  of  the  same,  has  been  (I  shall  not  read 
the  odd  figures)   $  993,000 

The  amount  expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Church 

schools  has  been    835,000 

The  amount  expended  for  the  construction,  maintenance  and  opera- 
tion of  temples  has  been    449,000 

Expended  for  hospital  construction    146,000 

Since  our  last  General  Conference  our  hospital  in  Idaho  Falls,  cost- 
ing in  the  neighborhood  of  $400,000  has  been  dedicated,  and  is 
open  for  the  care  of  the  afflicted. 

For  Charity — For  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  charitable 

purposes,  including  hospital  treatment   171,000 

Missions — For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions, 
and  for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in 
the  missions    586,000 

The  grand  total — Taken  from  the  tithes,  and  returned  by  the 
Trustee-in-Trust  to  the  Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  opera- 
tion of  the  stakes  and  wards,  for  the  maintenance  and  opera- 
tion of  Church  schools,  temples,  charities,  and  for  mission  ac- 
tivities  is   ,  $3,182,207.22 

Other  Charities — In  addition  to  charities  paid  out  of  the  tithes,  as 
before  stated,  there  have  also  been  distributed  the  fast  offerings 
and  Relief  Society  and  other  charities,  amounting  to  $471,000 
which,  added  to  the  $171,000  paid  from  the  tithes,  makes  a  total 
of  Church  charities  of  $643,060.47. 

Following  statistics  and  other  reports  are  compiled  from  the 
Church  records  for  the  year  1923: 

Church  growth — Children  blessed  and  entered  upon  the  records  of 

the  Church,  in  the  stakes  and  missions   19,199 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions   13,020 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and 

missions    7,492 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  organized  stakes  of  Zion  now  number  90. 
Wards  and  independent  branches  972. 
There  are  24  mission  of  the  Church. 
There  are  branches  in  the  missions,  63,5. 
The  birth-rate  in  the  Church  is  35  per  1000. 

The  marriage-rate  is  14  per  1000.  I  think  that  ought  to  be  increased. 
The  death-rate  is  7.2,  which  is  certainly  very  satisfactory  indeed. 
There  are  157,990  persons  in  the  Church  who  are  married. 
There  were  241  persons  divorced  in  the  year  1923. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  75%. 

Temple  Statistics — In  1918  and  1923 — A  comparison  for  the  past 

five  years — Baptisms,  five  years  ago  175,000;  last  year  393,000 

Ordinances,  five  years  ago   154,000;  last  year  442,000 

Total  ordinances  in  1918                                      329,529;    in    1923  836,053 

or  an  increase  of  more  than  150% — over  500,000  more  ordin- 
ances performed  last  year  than  five  years  ago. 

Missionary  statistics — On  Foreign  missions,  from  Stakes  of  Zion, 

there  are    1,798 

Local  elders  laboring  in  foreign  missions   83 

Special  missionaries  laboring  in  the  stakes  of  Zion   2,137 


Total  missionaries    4,018 

Stake  Presidents — There  have  been  appointed  since  last  October 
the  following  Stake  Presidents:  Wayne  H.  Redd,  San  Juan 
stake.  Henry  M.  Mickelsen,  Lost  River  stake.  M.  Howard 
Randall,  Morgan  stake.  James  Berkley  Larsen,  Shelley  stake. 
Winslow  Farr  Smith,  Ensign  stake.  William  H.  Callahan, 
Wayne  stake. 

There  have  been  new  wards  organized:  In  the  Roosevelt  Stake, 
Mountwel;  in  the  Liberty  stake,  Yale;  in  the  Los  Angeles 
stake,  Belvedere  and  Glendale. 

TEXT  FOE  AN  IMPORTANT  SUBJECT 

I  am  requested  to  read  this  announcement. 

"Mendelssohn's  oratorio  entitled,  Elijah,  will  be  given  this  evening, 
Friday,  in  the  Tabernacle,  commencing  at  8:15.  In  addition  to  the  choir 
of  two  hundred  and  fifty  voices  selected  from  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  ten 
talented  soloists,  and  an  orchestra  of  forty  men,  will  take  part.  The  com- 
mittee announce  popular  prices  of  25c  and  .50c.  Tickets  may  be  obtained 
at  the  box  office  and  at  the  Bureau  of  Information.  The  choir  and  mu- 
sicians have  been  preparing  this  splendid  oratorio  for  many  months,  and 
a  musical  treat  is  promised  to  all  who  attend.  Will  you  kindly  emphasize 
the  above,  and  oblige, 

"Sincerely,  The  Committee." 

I  have  decided  to  emphasize  it  by  devoting  my  talk,  entirely,  or 
practically  so,  to  that  subject.  I  had  not  made  up  my  mind  until  this 
morning  what  I  would  talk  about. 

On  the  21st  day  of  September,  1823,  nearly  seven  years  before 
the  organization  of  the  Church,  Moroni,  an  angel,  made  the  follow- 
ing statement  to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet: 

"Behold,  I  will  reveal  unto  you  the  Priesthood,  by  ihe  hand  of  Elijah 
the  prophet,  before  the  coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord. 

"And  he  shall  plant  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made 
to  the  fathers,  and  the  hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


"If  it  were  not  so,  the  whole  earth  would  be  utterly  wasted  at  his 
coming." 

In  the  revelation  known  as  the  Preface  to  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants we  are  told: 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice 
of  my  servants,  it  is  the  same. 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record, 
and  the  record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth  forever  and  ever.  Amen." 

THE  APPEARANCE  OF  ELIJAH 

In  1836,  about  thirteen  years  after  the  angel  Moroni  declared 
that  Elijah  should  restore  again  the  Priesthood,  Elijah  appeared  to 
Oliver  Cowdery  and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  Kirtland  temple. 
The  record  of  this  appearance  is  to  be  found  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  Section  110.  Not  only  did  Elijah  appear,  upon  that 
occasion,  in  the  Kirtland  temple,  to  the  Prophet  and  to  Oliver 
Cowdery,  but  the  Savior  and  others  appeared,  and  I  will  read  not 
only  regarding  Elijah's  appearance,  but  also  that  of  the  Savior.  The 
Savior  stated: 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was 
slain;  I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father." 

OUR  SAVIOR,  THE  LORD  JESUS  CHRIST  LIVES 

I  know  of  nothing  for  which  we,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  should 
be  more  grateful  than  the  absolute  knowledge  that  every  Latter-day 
Saints  has,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God.  All  over  the  world  today,  even  among  professed 
Christians,  there  is  a  lack  of  faith  in  the  divinity  of  the  Savior.  Even 
some  ministers  of  the  gospel  go  far  enough  to  declare  from  their  pulpits 
that  they  do  not  believe  that  Jesus  was  the  Son  of  God.  There  is 
no  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any  Latter-day  Saint  living  regarding  the 
fact  that  Jesus  is  the  Son  of  God,  because  when  the  boy  Joseph  Smith, 
not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age,  went  into  the  woods  to  pray  in  the  Sacred 
Grove,  he  saw  God  the  Father  and  God  introduced  to  him  his  well- 
beloved  Son,  and  told  this  boy  to  hear  Him.  Every  Latter-day  Saint 
believes  absolutely  in  the  revelations  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  that  they  are  true ;  and  in  one  of  these  revelations  we  have 
this  recorded  by  Sidney  Rigdon  and  the  Prophet: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and 
were  created,  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters 
unto  God." 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  have  an  account  of  the  actual  appearance  of  the  Savior  in  the 
first  temple  erected  in  this  dispensation  which  was  at  Kirtland. 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was 
slain;  I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father. 

"Behold,  your  sins  are  forgiven  you;  you  are  clean  before  me;  there- 
fore, lift  up  your  heads  and  rejoice. 

"Let  the  hearts  of  your  brethren  rejoice,  and  let  the  hearts  of  all  my 
people  rejoice,  who  have,  with  their  might,  built  this  house  to  my  name. 

"For  behold,  I  have  accepted  this  house,  and  my  name  shall  be  here; 
and  I  will  manifest  myself  to  my  people  in  mercy  in  this  house." 

Then  after  the  appearance  of  the  Savior  we  have  the  following: 

KEYS  TO  GATHERING  OF  ISRAEL  RESTORED 

"After  this  vision  closed,  the  heavens  were  again  opened  unto  us;  and 
Moses  appeared  before  us,  and  committed  unto  us  the  keys  of  the  gathering 
of  Israel  from  the  four  parts  of  the  earth,  and  the  leading  of  the  ten  tribes 
from  the  land  of  the  north." 

One  of  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  is : 

"We  believe  in  the  literal  gathering  of  Israel  and  in  the  restoration  of 
the  Ten  Tribes;  that  Zion  shall  be  built  upon  this  [the  American]  con- 
tinent; that  Christ  will  reign  personally  upon  the  earth;  and  that  the 
earth  will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory." 

"After  this,  Elias  appeared,  and  committed  the  dispensation  of  the 
gospel  of  Abraham,  saying  that  in  us  and  our  seed  all  generations  after  us 
should  be  blessed. 

VISITATION  OF  ELIJAH  IN  FULFILMENT  OF  MALACHl's  PREDICTION 

"After  this  vision  had  closed,  another  great  and  glorious  vision  burst 
upon  us;  for  Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken  to  heaven  without  tasting 
death,  stood  before  us,  and  said: 

"Behold  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth 
of  Malachi — testifying  that  he  [Elijah]  should  be  sent,  before  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — 

"To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children 
to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse — 

"Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your 
hands  and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the 
Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  doors." 

This  visitation  of  Elijah  to  the  Kirtland  temple  was  on  April  3, 
1836,  the  88th  anniversary  being  yesterday. 

THE  FAITH  OF  THE  SAINTS  VERIFIED  BY  TEMPLES  AND  WORKS  THEREIN 

I  rejoice  in  the  fact  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  believe  absolutely 
beyond  the  peradventure  of  a  doubt,  that  Elijah  did  come,  that  he  did 
commit  the  keys  to  Oliver  Cowdery  and  to  Joseph  Smith,  and  the 
temple  erected  in  Kirtland,  the  temple  erected  in  Nauvoo,  and  the 
temples  that  have  been  erected  here  in  thjs  state  of  Utah,  and  those  in 
Hawaii  and  in  Canada,  and  the  one  that  is  now  being  erected  in  Mesa 
City,  Arizona,  bear  testimony,  to  the  extent  of  millions  of  dollars  of 
money,  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  the  keys  have  been 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


given,  whereby  we  can,  in  very  deed,  be  saviors  upon  Mount  Zion  for 
those  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel. 

AN  AWAKENING  ON  THIS  SUBJECT  IN  ALL  THE  WORLD 

And  simultaneously,  almost,  with  the  declaration  way  back  in 
1823  by  the  Angel  Moroni,  (Section  2,  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
that  I  have  read  to  you,)  all  over  the  world  there  came  into  the  hearts 
of  people,  not  of  our  faith,  a  desire  to  organize  genealogical  societies, 
to  compile  records  of  names  by  the  thousands,  and  tens  of  thousands. 
I  have  met  in  many  lands  and  in  many  climes,  men  who  have  spent 
years,  and  a  large  amount  of  treasure,  and  almost  their  entire  time, 
in  compiling  rcords  of  their  ancestors.  I  have  asked  them  why  they 
did  it.  They  said  they  did  not  know,  they  were  seized  with  a  great 
desire  to  compile  records  of  their  ancestors ;  and,  as  we  know,  these 
records  are  worth  their  weight  in  gold  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

INTEREST  IN  WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD  INCREASING 

It  fell  to  my  lot  last  night  to  make  a  brief  address  to  the  repre- 
sentatives of  the  Genealogical  scoieties  and  organizations  of  the 
Church,  on  the  top  floor  of  the  Bishop's  Building.  The  auditorium 
there  was  crowded  to  overflowing.  We  have  had  a  great  many 
gatherings  there  at  one  time  and  another,  but  I  have  never  attended  a 
(gathering  in  that  building  when  the  room  was  as  well  filled  as  it  was 
last  night.  It  was  a  meeting  of  enthusiastic  laborers,  whose  works 
testify  to  the  coming  of  Elijah,  to  the  turning  of  the  hearts  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  of  the  children  to  the  fathers.  This  work 
is  being  carried  on,  and  as  I  have  read  to  you  in  the  statistics  here  this 
morning,  over  five-hundred  thousand  more  ordinances  were  per- 
formed in  our  temples  this  past  year  than  were  performed  during  a 
like  period  five  years  ago.  I  rejoice  in  the  splendid  work  that  is  being 
accomplished,  and  in  the  wonderful  loyalty  of  those  who  are  work- 
ing in  the  temples,  and  those  who  are  gathering  information  for  gen- 
ealogical work  of  different  kinds. 

I  believe  that  the  Committee  will  be  reasonably  well  satisfied 
with  my  emphasis  of  the  great  oratorio  here  tonight,  of  Elijah.  I 
hope  the  house  will  be  crowded  to  overflowing. 

WE  ARE  ENGAGED  IN  THE  MARVELOUS  WORK  OF  THE  LORD 

I  rejoice  in  the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  I  rejoice  in  a  knowledge 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  We 
are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  I  wish  to  read  the  words  of 
the  Lord  given  to  the  grandfather  of  our  late  beloved  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  the  father  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  the  Patriarch  Hyrurn 
Smith.  These  words  were  given,  remember,  before  the  Church  was 
organized : 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve 
him  with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand 
blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desire  to  serve  God,  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that 
thrusteth  in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he 
perisheth  not,  but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul; 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God,  qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly 
kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you. 
Amen. 

THE  GREAT  PURPOSE  OF  OUR  LABORS  DECLARED 

And  before  the  Church  was  organized  a  revelation  was  given 
to  the  father  of  our  beloved  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  I  will  not 
read  it  all,  but  it  is  Section  II,  given  in  May,  1829,  nearly  a  year 
before  the  organizing  of  the  Church.  Hyrum  Smith  desired  that  his 
brother,  the  Prophet,  should  inquire  of  the  Lord  as  to  what  labor  he 
should  perform.    He  said: 

"Now,  as  you  have  asked,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  keep  my 
commandments,"  I  desire  with  all  the  power  that  God  has  given  me 
to  emphasize  that.  That  applies  to  every  man,  woman  and  child  in 
all  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  "Keep  my  com- 
mandments, and  seek  to  bring  forth  and  establish  the  cause  of  Zion. 

"Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom;  and,  behold,  the  mysteries  of 
God  shall  be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold, 
he  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall 
be  done  unto  you;  and,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much 
good  in  this  generation. 

"Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation." 

Remember  that,  O  all  ye  people :  Say  nothing  but  repentance. 
Teach  and  live  the  first  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  let  the  mysteries 
of  heaven  wait  until  you  get  to  heaven. 

"Keep  my  commandments,  and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  accord- 
ing to  my  commandments,  and  you  shall  be  blessed. 

"Behold,  thou  hast  a  gift  or  thou  shalt  have  a  gift  if  thou  wilt  desire 
of  me  in  faith,  with  an  honest  heart,  believing  in  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ 
or  in  my  power  which  speaketh  unto  thee:  - 

"For,  behold,  it  is  I  that  speak;  behold,  I  am  the  light  which  shineth 
in  darkness,  and  by  my  power  I  give  these  words  unto  thee. 

"And  now,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  put  your  trust  in  that 
Spirit  which  leadeth  to  do  good — yea,  to  do  justly,  to  walk  humbly,  to  judge 
righteously;  and  this  is  my  Spirit    *    *  * 

"Build  upon  my  rock,  which  is  my  gospel; 

"Deny  not  the  spirit  of  revelation,  nor  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  for 
wo  unto  him  that  denieth  these  things; 

"Therefore,  treasure  up  in  your  heart  until  the  time  which  is  in  my 
wisdom  that  you  shall  go  forth. 

"Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in 
their  sickle  to  reap. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the 
light  of  the  world. 

"I  am  the  same,  who  came  unto  mine  own  and  mine  own  received  m<e 

not; 

"But  verily,  verily,  I  say  omto  you,  that  as  many  as  receive  me,  to 
them  will  I  give  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to  them  that 
believe  on  my  name.  Amen. 

Please  remember,  Latter-day  Saints,  that  this  revelation  declares 
that  the  Lord  speaks  unto  all  of  us  who  have  a  desire  to  labor — to 
seek  not  for  riches,  but  to  bring  forth  the  work  of  God,  and  to  labor 
for  the  accomplishment  of  that  purpose. 

THE  RESPONSIBILITY  OF  PARENTS 

Now  I  see  the  time  that  I  desired  to  occupy  has  expired,  but  I 
want  to  speak  just  a  little  more  and  read  a  few  words  that  I  have  been 
studying  occasionally,  now  for  forty  long  years,  since  it  fell  to  my  lot 
to  be  one  of  the  apostles : 

"And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of 
her  stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doc- 
trine of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  and  of  bap- 
tism and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when 
eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law" — not  an  exhortation  remember,  but  a  law — 
"unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which  are  organized. 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord." 

THE  SACRED  DUTY  OF   COMMUNION   WITH   GOD  THROUGH  PRAYER 

And  the  way  to*  teach  our  children  to  pray  is  to  pray  ourselves 
in  secret  and  in  our  families.  There  is  too  much  neglect  in  having 
communion  with  God  on  the  part  of  many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  feel  a  joy  and  a  happiness  every  day  of  my  life  in  communicating 
with  my  Maker,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  my  Redeemer. 
And  those  who  do  not  have  a  radio  communication,  so  to  speak,  with 
our  Heavenly  Father  and  our  Redeemer,  are  losing  the  inspiration  that 
comes  from  the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to 
keep  it  holy. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  also  shall  remember  their  labors,  inas- 
much as  they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness;  for  the  idler  shall 
be  had  in  remembrance  before  the  Lord. 

"Now,  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion, 
for  there  are  idlers  among  them;  and  their  children  are  also  growing  up  in 
wickedness;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their  eyes 
are  full  of  greediness. 

"These  things  ought  not  to  be,  and  must  be  done  away  from  among 
them;  wherefore,  let  my  servant  Oliver  Cowdery  carry  these  sayings  unto 
the  land  of  Zion. 

"And  a  commandment  I  give  unto  them — that  he  that  observeth  not 
his  prayers  before  the  Lord  in  the  season  thereof,  let  him  be  had  in  remem- 
brance before  the  judge  of  my  people. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"These  sayings  are  true  and  faithful;  wherefore,  transgress  them  not, 
neither  take  therefrom. 

"Behold,  I  am  Alpha  and  Omega,  and  I  ccme  quickly.  Amen." 

TAKE  TO  HEART  THE  DUTY  OF  TEACHING  FAITH  IN  JESUS  CHRIST 

I  pray  that  the  parents  who  are  within  the  sound  of  my  voice, 
and  those  who  may  read  in  the  conference  reports,  or  in  our  papers, 
what  I  say,  may  take  to  heart  the  duty  that  devolves  upon  them  under 
a  commandment  from  the  Lord  Almighty  to  teach  faith  in  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  to  their  children,  that  they  shall  pray  and  walk  uprightly. 
That  the  Lord  may  help  us  to  rear  our  beloved  children  in  the  nurture 
and  admonition  of  the  gospel,  and  in  a  love  of  God  and  of  our  Re- 
deemer, and  that  each  and  every  soul  who  has  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work  may  live  the  gospel  in  uprightness,  in  virtue, 
and  in  truth,  that  their  lives  may  preach  the  truth  to  those  with 
whom  they  come  in  contact,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Chirst,  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

This  is  not  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  have  heen  taken  by  sur- 
prise. I  felt  quite  content  to  sit  on  the  stand  here  this  morning  and 
listen  to  the  words  of  inspiration  that  have  fallen  from  the  lips  of 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  feeling  that  he  would  occupy  most,  if  not 
all,  of  the  time.  I  take  great  pleasure  in  bearing  testimony  to  the 
truth  of  the  things  that  he  has  uttered.  Perhaps  there  is  no  need  for 
that.  I  believe  that  that  testimony  is  in  the  hearts  of  this  vast  con- 
gregation this  morning.  I  enjoyed  every  word  the  President  has  ut- 
tered. I  know  that  what  he  has  said  and  read  and  testified  of  is  true, 
and  it  came  to  us  this  morning  in  the  life  and  power  and  spirit  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed  to  us  in  these  last  days.  I  enjoy 
meetings  of  this  kind  and  teachings  of  this  kind.  They  are  more  to  my 
heart  and  soul  than  learned  disquisitions  of  any  kind. 

THE  PREACHING  OF  THE  GOSPEL  TO  THE  NATIONS 

I  rejoice  in  this  gospel  which  the  Lord  has  revealed  for  the  sal- 
vation of  the  human  family.  I  have  labored  in  this  Church  for  a  good 
many  years,  and  feel  very  thankful  in  my  soul  this  morning  that  the 
Lord  has  preserved  me  to  the  extent  that  I  have  been  able  to  labor  up 
to  the  present  time,  notwithstanding  the  weaknesses  and  frailties  of 
human  nature,  and  the  burdens,  so  to  speak,  of  old  age.  God  be  praised 
for  all  his  goodness  to  me,  and  to  this  people  who  are  gathered  here 
from  many  lands.  What  a  great  thing  it  is  to  look  upon  this  con- 
gregation this  morning  and  consider  what  God  has  already  wrought ; 
then  to  lift  up  the  curtain  and  look  to  that  which  is  coming  and  see 
something  of  that  which  will  be  in  the  future.  This  congregation  is 
representative  of  the  Church  which  is  now  occupying  many  lands. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  11 


When  the  angel  that  John  the  Revelator  saw  in  the  vision  was  to  come 
to  the  earth  bearing  the  everlasting  gospel,  it  was  to  be  preached  to 
"every  nation  and  kindered  and  tongue  and  people,"  and  they  were  to  be 
called  with  a  loud  voice  to  "fear  God  and  keep  his  commandments,  for 
the  hour  of  his  judgment  has  come,"  and  to  "worship  him  that  made 
heaven  and  earth  and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters."  That  is 
a  commandment  to  us.  John  heard  the  voice  in  the  vision,  and  it  has 
been  echoed  again  in  the  last  days,  for  the  Lord  revealed  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  this  was  the  work  of  his  servants.  That 
which  the  Lord  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  stands  to- 
day as  the  duty  of  this  people,  gathering  from  afar  in  fulfilment  of 
what  Isaiah  and  Micah,  the  prophets  of  old,  saw  in  their  visions.  They 
saw  that  the  people  of  this  Church  would  come  from  all  parts  of  the 
earth  into  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and  that  here  should  be  "the 
mountain  of  the  Lord's  house,"  and  the  people  would  say:  "Come, 
and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  and  to  the  house  of  the 
God  of  Jacob.  And  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk 
in  his  paths ;  And  the  law  shall  go  forth  from  Zion,  and  the  word  of 
the  Lord  from  Jerusalem.  And  he  shall  judge  among  many  nations, 
and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares  and  their  spears  in- 
to pruning  hooks,  and  the  time  shall  come  when  the  sword  shall  not 
be  lifted  up  any  more ;  but  the  people  will  serve  the  Lord  and  walk 
in  his  ways,  and  prepare  for  the  coming  of  their  King;  even  Jesus 
the  Christ." 

THE  COMING  OF  THE  PRINCE  OF  PEACE 

What  a  blessing  it  is  to  be  privileged  to  look  upon  this  body  of 
people  this  morning  gathered  in  from  the  various  nations  of  the  earth 
who  have  come  up  here,  not  merely  to  better  their  temporal  condition, 
but  to  learn  the  ways  of  God  and  walk  in  his  paths,  and  to  prepare  the 
way  for  the  coming  of  the  great  King,  Jesus  of  Nazareth — once  of 
humble  birth,  but  who  now  will  come  in  glory  to  the  earth.  This  is  our 
work,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  serve  the  Lord,  to  learn  his  ways,  to 
walk  in  his  paths,  that  the  law  may  go  forth  from  Zion,  and  that 
nations  afar  off  may  be  so  influenced  that  they  will  cast  away  their 
weapons  of  war,  and  turn  them  into  weapons  of  peace,  and  prepare  for 
the  coming  of  the  great  King  who  is  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

WE  ARE  HERE  TO  SERVE  THE  LORD 

I  have  had  the  privilege  and  joy  and  duty,  for  several  years,  of 
laboring  in  this  cause,  at  home  and  abroad,  and  for  this  great  honor  I 
do  thank  and  praise  the  Lord  this  morning.  When  I  think  of  how 
the  Lord  has  blessed  and  sustained  me  at  home  and  abroad,  and  lifted 
up  the  veil  from  my  eyes,  and  given  me  to  see  the  things  of  his  King- 
dom, I  praise  him  with  all  my  heart.  I  rejoice  in  knowing  that  there 
are  so  many  good  men  and  women  gathered  from  afar,  and  their  chil- 
dren coming  up  after  them,  who  are  here  for  that  great  purpose ;  not 
merely  to  gather  riches,  not  merely  to  make  the  desert  blossom  like 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  rose,  not  merely  to  subdue  the  elements  and  bring  them  into  sub- 
jection, but  to  serve  the  Lord,  to  learn  what  he  wants  done,  and  then 
to  do  it  with  all  their  might  and  mind  and  strength.  This  is  what 
the  Lord  said  he  wanted  the  people  to  do  when  they  gathered  into 
Jackson  county,  in  Missouri,  to  endeavor  to  prepare  the  way  for  the 
coming  of  the  great  King  and  to  fulfil  the  predictions  of  the  Prophets 
and  perform  the  great  work  of  redemption  for  the  living  and  the 
dead,  which  God  had  marked  out  for  this  great  dispensation.  "Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  might, 
and  with  all  thy  strength,  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  thou  shalt 
serve  him."  That  was  the  first  great  commandment  to  the  people 
gathered,  to  the  spot  designed  for  Zion.  The  Lord  made  some 
great  predictions  there  to  the  people,  and  that  were  contingent  upon 
their  doing  this.  The  President  has  read  some  things  that  the  Lord 
revealed  at  that  time,  which  the  people  were  to  do.  Go  up  unto  the 
house  of  prayer  on  this  my  holy  day.  That  was  one  of  the  things  that 
we  were  to  do.  The  rest  of  the  commandments  there  and  the  bless- 
ings that  he  said  should  come  upon  the  people  were  predicated  upon 
their  doing  these  things;  and  here  is  a  truth  that  should  be  always 
present  and  clear  to  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints:  that  the 
blessings  which  are  promised  them,  whether  it  be  in  holy  ordinances 
or  in  the  words  of  the  servants  of  God,  or  in  the  revelations  direct 
from  the  Most  High,  they  are  all  predicated  upon  this  great  thing; 
that  we  shall  do  the  things  which  are  commanded. 

BLESSINGS  PREDICATED  UPON  SERVING  THE  LORD 

Every  blessing  that  is  pronounced  upon  us,  whether  in  the  tem- 
ples of  the  Lord  or  elsewhere,  is  predicated  upon  our  obedience  to  the 
commandments.  Even  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  we  are  told  there  that 
we  shall  receive  certain  blessings  if  we  observe  certain  rules,  if  we 
abstain  from  certain  things  that  are  not  good  for  us.  And  then  it 
says:  And  they  shall  receive  these  promises,  if  they  also  "keep  the 
commandments."  These  are  to  be  learned  and  obeyed,  and  it  is  our 
duty  to  teach  them  to  our  children  as  we  have  heard  this  morning. 
Now,  do  not  forget  this:  A  great  many  promises  have  been  made 
concerning  things  to  be  done  in  Zion,  but  unless  we  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  and  perform  the  duties  God  has  placed  upon  our 
shoulders,  we  cannot  claim  the  blessings.  The  Lord  says  he  promises, 
and  people  do  not  obey,  and  then  he  revokes,  and  they  receive  not  the 
blessings.  What?  Is  it  possible  that  God  revokes?  Yes;  he  says  so. 
Commandments  are  given  and  revoked — what  for  ?  Because  the  people 
who  were  to  observe  the  commandments  do  not  observe  them,  and  are 
not  worthy  or  prepared  to  receive  the  blessings. 

In  the  34th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  read  of  some 
things  the  Lord  commanded  to  the  people  at  that  time,  in  that  place. 
They  have  not  yet  come  to  pass.  He  has  stated  there,  these  things 
shall  be  done  in  that  "generation." 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  13 


THE  LENGTH  OF  A  GENERATION 

Speaking  of  the  word  generation,  I  may  make  a  remark  or  two 
that  perhaps,  will  be  timely  because  of  some  notions  some  of  our 
brethren  entertain  in  regard  to  this  point.  What  do  you  mean  when 
you  speak  of  a  generation?  Do  you  mean  some  particular  period  of 
time?  Not  generally,  the  word  does  not  mean  that.  You  do  not  find 
it  to  mean  that,  if  you  search  the  dictionary.  What  do  you  mean  by 
generation?  Well,  you  take  the  Bible  and  you  can  begin  by  reading: 
These  are  the  generations  of  Adam ;  these  are  the  generations  of  Seth ; 
and  these  are  the  generations  of  Noah  after  the  flood.  Does  that 
refer  to  some  particular  period  of  time — one  hundred  years,  as  some 
of  our  brethren  interpret  it?  No,  it  means  the  posterity,  the  genera- 
tions, the  families,  the  children  that  were  to  come.  The  generations 
of  Adam,  some  of  them,  lived  hundreds  of  years,  not  merely  one  hun- 
dred years. 

I  remember  that  in  the  old  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  edition 
with  which  I  was  most  familiar,  Elder  Orson  Pratt,  of  the  council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  who  separated  the  book  into  verses,  and  made  a 
great  many  footnotes,  had  one  footnote  which  said  most  positively 
that  a  generation  did  not  expire  in  one  hundred  years.  Well,  a  notion 
has  got  into  the  heads  of  some  of  our  brethren  that  it  does  mean  just 
one  hundred  years,  because,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read  of  cer- 
tain events  that  were  to  occur  within  four  hundred  years,  and  then, 
in  another  place,  that  they  were  to  be  in  the  fourth  generation.  Well, 
Brother  Pratt  said,  it  does  not  expire  in  a  hundred  years,  and  he  had 
studied  the  matter  from  a  philological  standpoint.  Now  what  I  am 
referring  to  is  this:  a  few  of  our  brethren,  some  of  them  men  of  im- 
portance, declare  that  one  hundred  years  from  the  date  of  that  revel- 
ation, which  is  in  the  84th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  all 
those  things  that  are  there  spoken  of  must  be  fulfilled.  Well  now, 
the  Lord  in  that  revelation  sometimes  says  a  thing  shall  be,  when  he 
is  giving  it  by  way  of  commandment.  Sometimes  the  word  is  used  in 
the  way  of  a  prediction,  but  in  this  very  matter  that  I  am  referring  to, 
we  read  in  the  124th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that  God 
gave  it  by  way  of  commandment — "I  gave  a  commandment  to  my  peo- 
ple that  they  should  build  a  house  unto  me,"  building  it  in  that  gen- 
eration in  a  certain  place,  pointed  out  by  the  finger  of  God  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  who  dedicated  it.  Now  in  the  124th  Section  the  Lord  declares 
that  that  was  a  commandment,  the  people  were  to  build  the  house  at 
that  place  in  that  generation.  If  you  will  read  carefully  the  revelations 
I  speak  of  now,  you  will  find  that  the  Lord  refers  particularly  to  this 
very  requirement  in  regard  to  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  and  he  de- 
clares that  the  people  there  were  commanded  to  build  a  house  to  him 
at  that  time,  and  on  that  spot.  But  their  enemies  came  upon  them  and 
prevented  them  from  doing  that  which  the  Lord  commanded  them,  and 
therefore  the  Lord  accepted  their  offering.  The  Lord  lays  down  there 
a  principle  which  it  is  well  for  us  to  understand.   The  Lord  says  that 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


whenever  he  gives  a  commandment,  no  matter  what  it  is  about, 
to  the  children  of  men,  and  they  go  to  with  their  might 
and  endeavor  to  fulfil  his  commandment,  and  do  that  which 
is  required  of  them,  and  they  are  prevented  by  their  enemies,  or 
by  any  other  means,  from  accomplishing  it,  he  does  not  require  it  any 
more  at  their  hands.  He  accepts  of  their  offering.  That  has  applied 
in  the  past,  and  will  apply  in  the  future,  and  we  should  remember  it. 
If  God  gives  a  commandment,  and  we  do  not  obey  it,  why  he  revokes 
it,  and  he  revokes  the  blessings.  If  he  gives  us  a  commandment  to  do 
certain  things,  and  we  find  ourselves  unable  to  do  them,  either  by  re- 
stricted laws  or  any  other  obstacles  in  the  way  of  physical  force,  the 
Lord  requires  them  no  more  but  accepts  our  offering,  and  he  will  visit 
his  wrath  and  indignation  upon  those  who  prevent  his  people  from 
accomplishing  that  which  he  required  at  their  hands. 

NO  DATE  SET  FOR  THE  COMING  OF  THE  LORD 

Now  that  is  worth  understanding,  so  that  the  idea  that  is  prevail- 
ing, or  that  some  have  endeavored  to  establish,  that  in  about  six  or 
seven  years  what  they  call  the  "winding  up  scene"  will  take  place; 
that  everything  will  take  place  to  finish  up  the  work  in  that  time.  That 
is  a  mistake ;  that  is  all  there  is  to  it.  And  so  we  need  not  be  deceived 
at  any  time  by  the  notions  and  opinions  of  men  in  regard  to  times  and 
dates  of  things  that  are  to  occur. 

There  are  a  quite  a  number  of  people,  who  set  the  date  to  the  time 
of  the  coming  of  the  Savior.  Only  recently  I  have  heard  of  such  testi- 
monies being  borne  in  some  of  our  fast  meetings.  That  is  all  wrong; 
that  should  not  be  done.  The  Lord  has  not,  at  any  time,  so  far  as  I 
am  aware,  in  all  my  searchings  in  the  revelations  that  have  come  to  the 
earth,  set  a  date  for  the  coming  of  the  Savior  to  reign  on  the  earth. 
He  said  when  he  was  upon  the  earth  that  he  did  not  know,  and  even 
the  angels  of  heaven  did  not  know.  When  Joseph  the  Prophet  tried  to 
find  out  the  Lord  did  not  answer  his  question  directly,  but  told  him  if 
he  lived  to  a  certain  time  he  should  behold  the  face  of  his  Redeemer. 
So  my  brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  be  deceived  by  any  means  in  re- 
gard to  this  setting  of  dates  for  the  fulfilment  of  certain  predictions. 
The  Apostle  Paul  had  to  say  to  the  Saints  in  his  day  that  they  were 
not  to  be  deceived  by  any  means  as  to  the  day  of  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  man,  "for,"  said  he,  "let  no  man  deceive  you  by  word  or  by 
speech  or  by  letter  as  from  us;  as  that  the  day  of  Christ  is  at  hand. 
Let  no  man  deceive  you  by  any  means:  for  that  day  shall  not  come, 
except  there  come  a  falling  away  first." 

Do  you  see  that  the  people  were  led  away  then,  as  sometimes  now, 
by  these  ideas  and  notions  that  prevailed  for  a  while? 

LET  US  PERFORM  OUR  DUTY  AND  THE  BLESSINGS  ARE  SURE 

Now  what  we  need  to  do,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  to  do  the 
work  that  we  are  gathered  here  for.    God  has  brought  us  from  many 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  15 


lands.  There  are  people  in  this  congregation  that  I  have  known  in 
foreign  countries,  where  I  have  labored,  and  I  rejoice  that  they  are 
here.  I  rejoice  with  all  my  heart.  I  rejoice  that  God  is  doing  this 
grand  work  of  gathering  his  Israel  from  the  nations  of  the  earth, 
■bringing  them  to  Zion  and  clothing  them  with  the  power  of  his  Holy 
Priesthood.  It  is  with  us  today,  that  power  and  influence  and  spirit 
of  this  gospel.  It  is  with  our  President.  It  does  my  heart  good  to 
hear  the  sound  of  his  voice,  knowing  that  it  penetrates  throughout  this 
congregation,  and  that  it  finds  an  echo  in  the  souls  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  am  glad  that  my  brethren  laboring  in  the  various  missions 
can  come  here  and  hear  the  sound  of  his  voice  and  feel  the  ardor  and 
strength  of  his  presence  and  carry  it  away  with  them  to  their  respective 
fields  of  labor.  And  so  with  the  presidents  of  stakes,  the  bishops  of 
wards ;  it  is  a  splendid  thing  to  come  here  and  have  our  souls  refreshed 
in  this  way.  The  Lord's  spirit  is  here,  and  his  power  is  here,  and  the 
authority  and  keys  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  revealed  in  former  times  to 
Peter  James  and  John,  and  brought  to  the  earth  in  latter  days  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  and  to  Oliver  Cowdery;  those  keys  are  with  us  today 
and  that  is  the  point  that  we  should  understand ;  that  today,  if  ye  will 
hear  his  voice,  harden  not  your  hearts,  receive  the  word  today,  find 
out  the  duties  of  today  through  the  living  oracles,  perform  these  duties, 
the  blessings  are  sure  to  come.  "Search  these  things,"  the  Lord  said, 
as  the  President  read  them.  They  are  true  and  faithful  and  they  will 
be  fulfilled.  I  know  that  they  have  been  fulfilled  hitherto  in  my  own 
experience.  God  has  been  with  me  wherever  I  have  been  sent  to  labor 
in  his  cause,  and  wherever  I  have  done  my  duty,  and  I  have  tried  to 
do  it,  for  a  good  many  years,  with  all  my  might  and  soul  and  strength, 
his  power  has  been  upon  me,  the  light  of  the  Lord  has  shone  upon  my 
understanding,  and  I  have  seen  the  things  of  the  kingdom  afar  off. 

A  REMINISCENCE  AND  A  TESTIMONY 

Years  and  years  ago,  laboring  and  traveling  without  purse  or  scrip, 
in  poverty  so  to  speak,  in  weariness  and  labor,  without  a  place  to  lay 
my  head — that  I  very  seldom  refer  to,  because  they  were  times  of  very 
great  trial — in  those  days  the  Lord  was  with  me,  and  the  song  of  Zion 
was  in  my  heart ;  his  strength,  his  salvation,  was  my  daily  portion.  I 
have  had  pointed  out  to  me,  during  the  last  few  weeks,  an  article  that 
I  wrote  for  the  Millennial  Star  about  sixty-five  years  ago.  It  was 
published  in  the  Millennial  Star  on  Sept.  10,  1859,  and  in  that  I  was 
able  to  portray,  as  I  saw,  the  things  that  were  coming  upon  this  gen- 
eration, this  wicked  and  perverse  generation  of  people,  and  I  have 
looked  up  the  Star  and  read  the  article,  and  it  has  done  me  good  to  be 
able  to  see  the  fulfilment  of  the  things  that  God  made  plain  to  my  soul 
those  many  years  ago ;  that  when  I  was  laboring  in  the  mission  field  at 
different  periods  his  spirit  and  his  power  have  been  upon  me,  and  the 
testimony  of  Zion  has  been  in  my  heart,  and  I  rejoice  and  praise  the 
Lord  this  morning  that  I  am  still  able  to  bear  testimony  that  God,  the 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


great  Creator,  is  our  Father,  the  Father  of  our  spirits,  and  that  he  has 
sent  us  on  the  earth  at  the  right  time,  in  the  right  place;  and  upon 
many  of  us  he  has  given  authority  and  the  Holy  Priesthood  to  minister 
for  him.  I  know  that  is  true,  I  know  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Son  of  the  Eternal  Father.  He 
himself  has  declared  that  he  was  the  First-born.  How  long  ago  that 
took  place  I  do  not  know.  I  do  not  think  anybody  does  know.  We 
haven't  heard  the  story,  fully,  of  the  early  existence,  the  pre-existence 
of  our  Savior,  nor  of  our  own.  We  imagine  a  great  many  things  con- 
cerning what  we  were  and  what  we  agreed  to  do  and  what  we  prom- 
ised, but  they  only  amount  to  our  thoughts  and  ideas.  One  certain 
thing  is  this :  that  we  are  here,  born  on  the  earth  in  the  latter  days  for 
the  purposes  of  God ;  and  he  has  led  our  footsteps  here  to  these  moun- 
tain valleys,  and  he  has  made  our  feet  fast  around  about  these  hills, 
and  the  things  that  he  has  promised  us  will  all  be  fulfilled  if  we  will 
do  our  duty,  if  we  will  learn  his  word  today  and  keep  his  command- 
ments now,  and  teach  them  to  our  children,  our  generations  will 
rise  up  and  call  us  blessed. 

HANG  ON  AND  KEEP  FAST  HOLD  OF  THE  TRUTH 

I  am  glad  to  meet  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  today  in  this 
great  congregation,  and  I  am  proud  to  know  that  you  were  my  brothers 
and  sisters  in  the  spirit  world,  and  in  the  gospel  kingdom  on  the  earth 
in  the  latter  days,  and  that  we  are  bound  together  by  sacred  covenants 
which  we  should  observe  always  and  remember  what  we  are.  I  meet 
with  a  good  many  of  our  young  boys  and  girls  when  they  come  back 
from  serving  as  missionaries.  I  am  always  glad  to  meet  them,  and  I 
advise  them  to  hang  on,  and  keep  fast  hold  of  the  truth,  and  advise 
them  to  be  sure  and  work  today,  not  to  leave  what  they  have  done  in 
the  past  and  then  go  astray,  but  to  continue  in  the  way  of  righteous- 
ness and  always  be  ministers,  missionaries,  at  home  and  abroad;  for 
they  are  called  by  the  Almighty  to  help  in  this  great  Latter-day  work 
which  will  go  on  to  a  glorious  consummation. 

GOD  BE  WITH  YOU 

I  thank  God  for  this  privilege  of  bearing  this  humble  testimony 
today,  and  praise  him  with  all  my  soul  for  all  his  goodness  and  kind- 
ness and  protecting  care  to  me,  and  for  all  his  providences  and  mani- 
festations of  his  power  to  me.  I  praise  him  with  all  my  heart,  and  in 
the  midst  of  the  congregation  I  say:  Blessed  be  his  name,  forever. 
It  always  will  be,  no  matter  what  I  say  or  do,  and  his  blessings  will  be 
ours,  and  upon  you,  my  brethren,  laboring  in  the  ministry  at  home, 
or  sent  to  minister  abroad.  God  will  be  with  you,  and  therein  will  be 
your  strength.  It  will  not  be  in  worldly  learning  nor  worldly  riches,  it 
will  be  in  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  your  souls,  the  power 
of  your  ministry,  in  the  spirit  of  it.  And  in  that  you  shall  have  joy 
in  that  you  shall  have  success,  and  God  will  open  up  your  way  and 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  17 


the  increases  that  we  have  heard  about  this  morning  will  continue  and 
go  on  and  be  augmented. 

THIS  WORK  ONWARD  AND  UPWARD  FOREVER 

This  work  is  onward  and  upward,  and  it  will  be  forever  and  ever. 
It  will  not  be  taken  away  from  the  earth  again,  it  is  here  to  stay.  It  will 
abide.  It  will  prevail.  It  will  overcome  all  its  foes,  all  its  obstacles, 
all  its  difficulties,  and  the  Lord  will  inspire  his  servants,  as  he  raises 
them  up  for  the  peculiar  and  special  work  in  which  they  are  to  be 
engaged,  and  he  will  give  them  success  therein  as  he  has  done  with 
our  brethren  who  have  passed  away,  and  our  brother  who  has  spoken 
to  us  this  morning.  He  is  our  President  and  leader  and  the  man  hold- 
ing the  keys  of  the  sealing  ordinances  in  the  last  days,  and  he  is  our 
President  in  very  deed.  He  stands  at  the  head,  and  if  God  has  any- 
thing to  reveal  to  the  Church,  as  a  Church,  it  will  be  revealed  to  him 
as  long  as  he  remains  on  the  earth.  God  be  with  him.  I  sustain  him 
with  all  my  heart  and  soul  as  the  President  and  leader  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are  witnesses  to  the  truth 
of.  all  that  he  has  said  to  us  this  morning,  and  to  the  divine  Spirit 
which  has  rested  upon  him. 

Now  may  God's  Spirit  abide  with  you,  my  brethren  holding  the 
Priesthood,  that  you  may  be  able  to  perform  your  duties  successfully, 
that  you  may  go  forth  from  this  conference,  renewed  and  refreshed 
and  invigorated,  to  stir  up  the  people  to  righteousness,  to  encourage 
them  to  be  faithful  and  true  and  to  perform  the  work  for  which  they 
have  come  on  the  earth.  God  bless  you  with  all  the  blessings  that  your 
hearts  can  righteously  desire,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric) 

It  is  a  great  privilege  to  meet,  on  occasions  like  this  to  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord  from  his  servants,  and  to  be  inspired  with  new 
resolves  and  desires.  It  gives  us  all  an  apportunity  to  examine  ourselves, 
and  to  measure  our  standing  in  the  Church,  to  see  whether  we  are  reach- 
ing the  ideals  the  Lord  designed  us  to  reach.  It  enables  us  to  go 
home  with  renewed  determination  to  keep  his  commandments  and  to 
honor  his  name.  I  am  satisfied  this  is  the  wish  and  desire  of  all  who 
are  here  to-day. 

I  thank  the  Lord  with  all  my  heart  for  the  gospel,  for  the 
testimonies  he  has  given  me,  for  the  privilege  of  gathering  among 
his  people  and  laboring  in  his  ministry.  I  desire  to  serve  the  Lord, 
keep  his  commandments  and  honor  his  presiding  brethren,  and  abide 
by  their  counsel  and  advice. 

The  Lord  has  called  us  to  labor  in  his  ministry  for  the  establish- 
ment of  his  mighty  purposes  on  the  earth,  to  build  up  his  Church; 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  everything  we  do  that  will  help  to  bring  this  about  will  redound 
to  our  blessing  and  comfort  and  give  us  joy  in  our  ministry. 

Reference  has  been  made  by  Presidents  Grant  and  Penrose  to 
the  duty  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  of  keeping  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  and  they  have  urged  us  to  do  so.  Several  important  com- 
mandments have  been  mentioned,  and  I  may  be  pardoned  if  I  once 
more  mention  another,  which  comes  to  my  attention  in  my  labors  as 
a  counselor  to  Bishop  Nibley,  and  that  is  a  better  and  more  prompt 
observance  of  the  law  of  tithing. 

Great  blessings  will  come  to  a  man  or  woman  who  will  observe  this 
law.  It  will  increase  their  faith  in  the  gospel,  their  desire  to  serve 
the  Lord,  and  they  will  be  setting  a  good  example.  We  should 
teach  this  law  to  our  young  people  and  see  that  they  have  an  op- 
portunity to  pay  tithing.  If  our  children  are  given  funds  or  acquire 
means,  they  should  be  taught  and  encouraged  to  tithe  it,  so  that  the 
habit  of  tithe-paying  will  grow  with  them.  There  is  a  statement 
made  by  King  Solomon,  in  the  book  of  Proverbs,  "Train  up  a  child 
in  the  way  he  should  go:  and  when  he  is  old,  he  will  not  depart 
from  it."  This  can  be  applied  to  the  observance  of  the  law  ojr 
tithing. 

Let  us  not  rest  up  with  the  idea  that  because  father  has  already 
paid  a  tithe,  the  child  need  not  pay  tithing.  The  child,  if  allowed  to  pay 
its  tithing,  even  though  it  be  small,  will  develop  a  good  habit,  and 
it  will  stay  with  him.  This  is  another  duty  of  fathers  and  mothers, 
to  teach  their  children  the  observance  of  this  law. 

Then,  at  tithing  settlement,  father  should  see  that  his  boys  and 
girls  go  with  him,  particularly  the  boys  who  hold  the  Priesthood. 
He  should  not  go  to  settlement  with  the  idea  of  asking  the  bishop 
to  credit  so  much  to  one  child  and  so  much  to  another,  but  take 
the  children  with  him,  and  let  them  pay  the  bishop  themselves,  and 
receive  the  receipt  of  the  bishop. 

I  am  glad  to  say  that  there  are  more  tithe-payers  to-day,  in 
the  Church,  than  have  ever  been  reported  previously.  There  were 
special  efforts  made  a  few  years  ago  to  encourage  payment  of  tith- 
ing by  all  members  of  the  Church.  This  matter  was  not  particularly 
stressed,  in  1923,  but  because  of  the  faithfulness  and  devotion  of  the 
leading  brethren  in  the  stakes  and  wards  and  the  teaching  of  this 
law  to  the  people,  the  number  of  tithe-payers  has  increased.  How- 
ever, many  have  not  paid  tithing,  as  the  records  of  the  Church  show, 
and  therefore  they  are  not  receiving  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has 
promised  to  those  who  will  observe  this  law.  He  is  willing  and 
anxious  to  bless  his  people  whenever  they  will  obey  the  law  upon 
which  that  blessing  is  predicated. 

The  old  habit  of  paying  tithing  once  a  year,  at  a  special  settlement 
with  the  bishopric  of  the  ward,  is  slowly  going  out  of  use.  There 
is  growing  in  the  Church  a  disposition  on  the  part  of  the  Saints  to 
pay  tithing  monthly,  or  at  other  regular  intervals.  By  this  means 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


19 


the  payment  of  tithing  is  more  faithfully  observed,  and  it  brings 
joy  and  satisfaction  to  those  who  tithe  their  income  before  they 
use  the  balance.  If  this  practice  is  followed  by  the  officers  of  the 
Church  in  the  stakes  and  wards,  it  will  grow  among  the  Saints 
themselves  and,  in  my  opinion,  is  the  best  and  proper  method  of 
paying  tithing.  Tithing  settlement  will  be  easier  and  less  burdensome 
to  the  tithe-payer  when  all  he  pays  at  the  end  of  the  year  will  be 
his  tithing  for  the  month  of  December  only. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  inspiration  of  his  servants,  for  their 
advice  and  counsel,  for  their  splendid  example ;  and,  no  doubt,  we  shall 
all  go  home  determined  that  in  our  homes,  in  the  wards  and  in  the 
stakes  and  missions  where  we  may  be  laboring,  we  shall  carry  the 
instructions  of  President  Grant,  and  use  all  our  influence  to  see 
they  are  put  into  practice.  This  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  cannot  help  but  feel  impressed  with  the 
sense  of  my  insignificance,  as  I  stand  in  the  presence  of  our  Church 
leaders  and  of  Israel,  assembled  in  conference;  but  I  do  rejoice  with 
all  my  heart  in  this  wonderful  gospel.  As  I  listened  to  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  and  to  President  Charles  W.  Penrose,  I  said  in  my  heart: 
"I  will  go  with  these  men  because  God  is  with  them,"  and  the  words  of 
the  Apostle  Paul  came  to  me.  He  said :  "For  if  the  trumpet  give  an 
uncertain  sound,  who  shall  prepare  himself  to  the  battle?" 

Is  there  any  uncertainty  in  the  testimonies  and  the  messages  that 
have  been  delivered  to  Israel  this  morning?  No.  Doubt  is  swallowed 
up  in  knowledge  and  certainty.  In  the  world  there  is  doubt,  there  is 
uncertainty.  One  class  of  so-called  religionists  is  teaching  that  Jesus  is 
not  divine,  that  he  was  not  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  and  that  the 
story  of  his  bodily  resurrection  is  a  myth.  We,  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
standing  on  the  sure  foundation  of  revelation,  and  inspired  by  the  testi- 
mony of  the  Holy  Ghost,  declare  to  all  the  world  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind,  and  in  this  testi- 
mony we  are  safe,  and  we  shall  win  eternal  life  by  obeying  the  com- 
mandments of  our  blessed  Lord.  Never  in  the  history  of  the  world, 
when  God  has  sent  forth  his  prophets,  has  there  been  uncertainty  in 
their  message. 

Unto  Adam  God  declared :  "If  thou  wilt  turn  unto  me,  and 
hearken  unto  my  voice,  and  believe,  and  repent  of  all  thy  transgressions, 
and  be  baptized,  even  in  water,  in  the  name  of  mine  Only  Begotten 
Son,  who  is  full  of  grace  and  truth,  which  is  Jesus  Christ,  the  only 
name  which  shall  be  given  under  heaven,  whereby  salvation  shall  come 
unto  the  children  of  men,  ye  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


*  *  *  For  by  the  water  ye  keep  the  commandment,  by  the  Spirit 
ye  are  justified,  and  by  the  blood  ye  are  sanctified."  And  thus  may 
all  become  the  sons  of  God,  for  this  is  the  plan  of  salvation  unto  all 
men. 

In  this  dispensation,  the  Lord  hath  thundered  forth  the  command- 
ment in  which  these  words  occur:  "Behold,  the  world  is  ripening 
in  iniquity;  and  it  must  needs  be  that  the  children  of  men  are  stirred 
up  unto  repentance,  both  the  Gentiles  and  also  the  house  of  Israel." 
The  gospel  trumpet  is  sounding  clearly  and  with  certainty.  The  Apos- 
tle Paul  said  that  God  commandeth  all  men  everywhere  to  repent. 
Remission  of  sins  follows  sincere  repentance,  the  baptism  of  water 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  your  sons  and  your  daughters  in  the  world 
are  proclaiming  the  message  of  life  and  salvation,  and  they  are  pro- 
claiming it  in  the  spirit  of  the  Christ.  Recently  two  elders  in  the 
Southern  States  mission,  while  delivering  their  message,  were  taken 
from  the  home  in  which  they  were  preaching,  by  a  mob  of  about  forty 
men.  Into  the  woods  they  were  taken,  and  the  mob  declared  that  they 
had  brought  them  there  to  punish  them.  One  of  the  elders  said  to  those 
hard-hearted  and  cruel  men:  "My  companion  is  not  well.  He  is  sick. 
The  punishment  you  are  going  to  give  him,  give  to  me.  I  am  willing 
to  bear  what  you  are  going  to  do  to  him.  These  noble  words  and 
Christ-like  spirit  softened  the  fury  of  the  mob  to  some  extent.  The 
elder  bore  part  of  his  companion's  burden.  Woe,  woe,  to  those  men 
who  persecute  the  servants  of  God.  They  are  under  the  displeasure 
of  him  who  said :    "Vengeance  is  mine,  and  I  will  repay." 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  that 
through  him  the  Almighty  delivered  a  message  to  the  world  which  is 
soul-saving,  and  which  will  exalt  people  to  be  sons  and  daughters  of 
God.  Brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  earnestness  and  in  all  humility,  I 
thank  my  heavenly  Father  that  the  leaders  of  this  Church  are  not  pro- 
claiming mysteries  to  the  people,  but  they  are  declaring  the  saving 
principles  of  the  gospel;  and  inspired  by  their  teachings  we  mission- 
aries look  at  them  and  say :  "There  stand  the  First  Presidency ;  there 
we  stand,  too." 

God  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith:  "And  thy  people  shall 
never  be  turned  against  thee  by  the  testimony  of  traitors."  This  is  a 
continuing  promise.  The  people  of  God  will  never,  so  long  as  they 
listen  to  the  counsels  of  their  leaders,  be  turned  from  those  men  who 
have  been  divinely  appointed  to  counsel  Israel,  to  be  shepherds  of  the 
people,  and  to  point  the  way  to  eternal  life. 

"He  has  sounded  forth  the  trumpet  that  shall  never  call  retreat ; 
He  is  sifting  out  the  hearts  of  men  before  His  judgment  seat; 
O  be  swift,  my  soul,  to  answer  Him!  be  jubilant,  my  feet! 
Our  God  is  marching  on." 

I  bear  testimony  that  the  gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion, in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


21 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church) 

I  am  grateful  for  section  eleven  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
referred  to  by  President  Grant.  While  this  was  given  to  Hyrum  Smith, 
through  his  brother  Joseph,  for  his  personal  guidance,  the  revelation, 
like  all  others  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  contains  much  in- 
formation which  is  of  great  value  to  all  of  us.  I  was  first  attracted 
to  this  revelation  because  it  was  given  to  my  grandfather,  in  answer 
to  his  prayer  for  further  light  and  guidance.  I  enjoy  reading  it,  and 
have  received  much  encouragement  from  so  doing;  and,  as  I  read 
it  again  and  again,  I  get  from  it  new  thoughts  and  new  encouragement. 
At  the  time  this  revelation  was  given,  Joseph  Smith  was  translating 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  his  brother  Hyrum  lending  every  aid  as 
he  followed  this  work,  believing  it  to  be  a  sacred  record.  His 
soul  was  filled  with  a  desire  to  spread  the  new  light  and  knowledge 
amon  his  fellowmen;  he,  therefroe,  asked  his  brother  to  inquire  of 
the  Lord  that  he  might  know  the  will  of  the  Lord  concerning  this  work, 
at  it  pertained  to  him.  Hyrum  was  not  yet  prepared  for  the  great 
change  that  was  to  take  place  in  religious  thought  and  doctrines.  The 
Lord  in  his  mercy  found  it  necessary  to  restrain  him  until  .he  had 
been  prepared. 

It  was  the  common  belief  that  any  man  desiring  to  preach  could 
take  it  upon  himself  to  do  so  without  being  especially  called  and 
ordained  by  one  having  authority.  The  Lord's  answer  to  this  prayer 
was : 

Behold,  I  command  you  that  you  need  not  suppose  that  you  are  called 
to  preach  until  you  are  called. 

Wait  a  little  longer,  until  you  shall  have  my  word,  my  rock,  my  Church, 
and  my  gospel,  that  you  may  know  of  a  surety  my  doctrine. 

And  then,  behold,  according  to  your  desires,  yea,  even  according  to  your 
faith  shall  it  be  done  unto  you. 

Keep  my  commandments;  hold  your  peace;  appeal  unto  my  Spirit; 

Yea,  cleave  unto  me  with  all  your  heart,  that  you  may  assist  in  bringing 
to  light  those  things  of  which  has  been  spoken — yea,  the  translation  of  my 
work;  be  patient  until  you  shall  accomplish  it. 

Behold,  this  is  your  work,  to  keep  my  commandments,  yea,  with  all 
your  might,  mind  and  strength. 

Seek  not  to  declare  my  word,  but  first  seek  to  obtain  my  word,  and 
then  shall  your  tongue  be  loosed;  then,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  have  my 
Spirit  and  my  word,  yea,  the  power  of  God  unto  the  convincing  of  men. 

But  now  hold  your  peace;  study  my  word  which  hath  gone  forth  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  also  study  my  word  which  shall  come  forth  among 
the  children  of  men,  or  that  which  is  now  translating,  yea,  until  you  have 
obtained  it,  which  I  shall  grant  unto  the  children  of  men  in  this  generation, 
and  then  shall  al  things  be  added  thereto. 

There  was  to  be  a  new  Church,  or,  rather,  the  old  one  restored. 
The  word  of  the  Lord  was  again  being  received  through  revelation, 
and  the  written  record  for  many  years  hidden  away  was  now  restored, 
thus  making  the  gospel  more  plain  and  restoring  it  in  its  fulness. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


These  changed  conditions  required  much  thought,  study  and  prepara- 
tion. Hyrum  Smith's  work  by  way  of  preparation  was  to  first 
keep  the  commandments  with  all  his  might,  mind  and  strength,  to 
study  the  word  of  the  Lord:  that  which  had  been  given  and  that 
which  was  about  to  be  given.  He  was  to  seek  not  for  riches  but  for 
wisdom,  and  the  promise  was  that  through  his  faithfulness,  "the 
mysteries  of  God  shall  be  unfolded  unto  you  and  then  shall  you  be 
made  rich.  Behold,  he  that  hath  eternal  life  is  rich."  And,  after 
he  had  proven  his  faith  by  his  works,  then  should  his  tongue  be  loosed, 
then  if  he  desired  he  could  have  the  Spirit  and  word  and  the  power  of 
God  unto  the  convincing  of  men,  and  all  things  were  to  be  added 
thereunto.  From  this  we  see  the  importance  the  Lord  places  on  the 
need  of  humility;  the  importance  of  keeping  the  commandments  and 
being  prepared  for  the  work  called  to  do.  This  has  been  taught  to 
me  all  my  life  and  because  of  the  teachings  of  my  parents  and  the 
opportunity  I  have  had  for  gaining  knowledge,  I  have  been  highly 
blessed,  and  should  have  been  better  prepared  for  service  in  the 
ministry.  I  have  discovered  that  faith,  a  sincere  effort  to  keep  the 
commandments,  and  a  careful  study  of  the  gospel  are  not  sufficient 
but  are  steps  to  service,  which  is  the  final  and  greatest  qualifying 
feature  in  the  Church. 

Service  may  be  rendered  in  an  indifferent  or  haphazard  manner 
or  as  a  matter  of  course,  or  daily  act  following  fixed  habits.  When 
so  rendered  the  greatest  good  is  not  accomplished. 

At  the  death  of  my  father,  I  began  to  realize  more  and  more 
how  much  I  had  depended  upon  him ;  for  it  was  easy  to  ask  advice ; 
to  get  information  on  points  of  doctrine;  all  of  which  has  been 
helpful,  but  not  having  him  to  rely  upon  I  have  been  impressed  more 
forcibly  that  it  is  necessary  for  each  individual  to  stand  firmly  upon 
his  own  foundation.  I  am  beginning  to  see  more  and  more  that 
the  great  value  in  having  knowledge  is  to  prepare  one  to  render  greater 
service,  which  is  measured  by  the  faith  and  diligence  with  which  that 
service  is  performed.  The  Lord  has  shown  the  way  and  provided 
wisely  that  each  one  may  have  an  opportunity  of  gaining  knowledge, 
and  of  rendering  service  in  his  Church.  His  plan  is  perhaps  not 
wholly  effective,  because  of  our  carelessness  and  failure  to  fully  do 
our  part  as  leaders,  nevertheless,  the  opportunity  is  given,  subject 
to  our  acceptance. 

There  are  two  priesthoods :  The  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic  or 
Lesser  Priesthood.  The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  deals  with  spiritual 
things,  and  the  Aaronic,  with  the  preparatory  gospel.  It  has  fallen  to 
my  lot  to  labor  in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  with  the  young  men  holding 
the  office  of  priest,  teacher  and  deacon ;  helping  them  in  their  en- 
deavor to  lay  a  firm  foundation  upon  which  they  may  build,  that 
further  knowledge  and  .service  may  be  acquired.  How  wisely  has 
the  Lord  provided  for  them.  As  deacons,  the  boys  are  expected  to 
perform  labors  in  keeping  with  their  age  and  knowledge,  thus  they 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


23 


gain  further  knowledge;  through  service  and  study,  encouraged  by 
their  officers  and  the  Saints,  in  time  they  are  prepared  for  greatei 
service  and  so  advance  to  the  office  of  teacher.  Here  their  mission 
is  to  "watch  over  the  Church  always,  and  be  with  and  strengthen 
them : 

"And  see  that  the  Church  meet  together  often,  and  also  see  that  all  the 
each  other,  neither  lying,  backbiting,  nor  evil  speaking: 

"And  see  that  the  Church  meet  together  often,  and  also  see  that  all  the 
members  do  their  duty." 

This  labor  is  to  be  among  those  who  believe  in  the  gospel,  and 
who  understand  that  it  is  their  mission  to  help  these  young  men  to  gain 
the  experience  necessary,  in  the  spirit  of  love,  having  a  respect  for 
them  and  a  desire  to  encourage  them  in  their  work.  This  encourage- 
ment and  labor,  comes  to  them  during  a  trying  period  in  a  boy's 
life,  being  privileged  to  watch  over  the  Church,  to  see  that  there  is 
no  iniquity,  lying,  back-biting  and  evil  speaking,  and  to  see  that  the 
Church  meet  together  often,  and  that  all  members  do  their  duty. 

I  cannot  conceive  of  any  greater  protection  that  can  come  to 
a  young  man  and  no  greater  opportunity  for  growth,  and  the  gain- 
ing of  knowledge,  than  in  rendering  this  service,  under  the  direction 
of  wise  leaders  and  kind  Church  members.  With  a  few  years  of 
such  training,  they  should  be  qualified  for  greater  service,  and  when 
ordained  to  the  office  of  priest,  they  are  expected  to  preach,  teach, 
expound,  exhort,  baptize,  administer  the  sacrament  and  to  visit  the 
homes  of  each  member,  and  exhort  them  to  pray  vocally  and  in  secret. 
This  labor  too,  is  with  the  members  who  are  or  should  be  .sympathetic 
and  anxious  to  encourage  them  in  their  preparation  for  greater 
responsibility  which  comes  with  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  With 
this  training,  step  by  step,  the  young  men  grow  in  knowledge 
and  experience,  and  in  due  time  they  learn  to  put  their  trust  in  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  leadeth  to  do  good  and  to  do  justly,  and 
if  they  work  humbly,  the  promise  is  to  them  also,  and  they  are  en- 
titled to  the  enlightening  influence  of  the  Spirit,  which  shall  fill  our 
souls  with  joy. 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  opportunity  I 
have  of  laboring  in  this  Church.  I  am  grateful  that  it  has  fallen  to 
my  lot  to  labor  among  the  young  men,  and  I  pray  that  the  importance 
of  this  work  will  be  impressed  upon  us,  that  we  may  encourage  those 
holding  the  Lesser  Priesthood  and  provide  employment  for  them,  even 
more  than  we  have  been  doing  in  the  past.  During  the  last  year  there 
has  been  greater  activity  in  the  Lesser  Priesthood  work  than  in  any  other 
year  in  the  history  of  the  Church.  There  is  room  for  greater  de- 
velopment ;  for  greater  work  and  activity,  and  the  boys  need  it.  Upon 
thos  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  rests  the  responsibility  of 
providing  this  training.  May  God  help  us  to  do  so,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Western  States  Mission) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  real  pleasure  to  be  here  on  this 
occasion  and  bear  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  gospel  as  taught 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  remarks  of  our  brethren  this  morn- 
ing have  impressed  me  with  the  importance  of  having  a  personal,  living 
testimony  of  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  is  the  very  Son 
of  God,  the  Savior  of  the  world ;  and  also  a  testimony  that  Joseph 
Smith,  the  latter-day  prophet,  was  raised  up  by  the  Lord  to  usher  in 
a  new  gospel  dispensation. 

I  know  that  the  gospel  we  preach  is  not  after  man;  we  have 
not  followed  cunningly  devised  fables,  Joseph  Smith  did  not  receive 
it  of  man,  but  by  the  revelations  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  received 
the  witness  of  the  Spirit  that  the  gospel  taught  by  the  Latter-day 
prophet  is  verily  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  The  Savior  said, 
"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or 
whether  I  speak  of  myself."  So,  today,  as  missionaries  we  lay  down 
the  gauntlet  and  say  to  all  men,  that  if  they  will  do  the  will  of  the 
Father,  obeying  the  principles  of  the  gospel  as  we  teach  them,  they 
shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  is  of  God  or  whether  we  speak 
of  ourselves.  Then  will  they  receive  the  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
whom  God  hath  promised  to  all  those  who  obey  him.  You  will 
remember  the  occasion  when  Peter  and  companions  appeared  before 
the  council  at  Jerusalem.  The  high  priest  asked  them,  saying;  "Did 
we  not  straitly  command  you  that  ye  should  not  teach  in  this  name  ?" — 
Peter  and  the  other  apostles  answered  and  said,  "We  ought  to  obey 
God  rather  than  men.  The  God  of  our  fathers  raised  up  Jesus,  whom 
ye  slew  and  hanged  on  a  tree.  Him  hath  God  exalted  with  his  right 
hand  to  be  a  Prince  and  a  Savior,  for  to  give  repentance  to  Israel, 
and  forgiveness  of  sins.  And  we  are  his  witnesses  of  these  things ; 
and  so  is  also  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  God  hath  given  to  them  that 
obey  him."  Acts  5  :28-32.  Paul  in  writing  to  the  Corinthian  Saints, 
said,  "Wherefore  I  give  you  to  understand,  that  no  man  speaking 
■by  the  Spirit  of  God,  calleth  Jesus  accursed :  and  that  no  man  can 
say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

It  is  important,  therefore,  as  pointed  out  here  today,  that  parents 
in  Zion  shall  teach  their  children  the  fundamentals  of  the  gospel, 
that  as  they  grow  in  years  they  may  grow  in  a  knowl- 
edege  of  the  truth ;  and,  having  received  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  they  may  have  the  right  to 
claim  this  testimony  from  our  heavenly  Father  for  he  has  said, 
"I  the  Lord  am  bound,  when  ye  do  what  I  say ;  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say  ye  have  no  promise."  Surely  the  Lord  will  impart  unto 
us  according  to  our  obedience. 

I  thank  God  with  all  my  soul  that  it  is  my  privilege  to  bear 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT 


25 


testimony  to  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  is  the  very 
Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world;  that  by  and  through  him, 
salvation  will  come  to  all  the  children  on  the  earth.  There  is  no  other 
name  given  under  heaven  whereby  we  may  be  saved.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  testimony  that  has  come  into  my  life  that  Joseph  Smith  was, 
and  is,  a  Prophet  of  the  living  God.  It  was  not  my  good  fortune 
to  know  him  in  the  flesh,  but  those  who  knew  and  associated  with  him 
in  life,  did  not  know  any  better  than  I  know  that  his  mission  was 
divine.  I  appreciate  the  privilege  of  giving  service  today  in  this 
great  cause,  and  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  message  we  have  for 
the  world  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  We  shall  receive  the 
companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit  in  direct  proportion  to  our  obed- 
ience to  the  commandments  given  unto  us.  May  the  Lord  give  us 
power  to  live  the  gospel,  to  be  exemplary  in  our  lives,  and  to  bear 
testimony  to  all  with  whom  we  come  in  contact  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Lars  P.  Oveson,  president 
of  the  Emery  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  at  2  o'clock  announced  the 
hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain  top,"  which  was  sung  by  the  choir  and 
congregation. 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John  W.  Hart,  president  of  the 
Rigby  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  something  that  will  be  profitable 
to  us  this  afternoon.  We  had  a  very  choice  meeting  this  morning. 
The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  with  us,  and  will  doubtless  continue  to 
be  with  us  to  the  end  of  this  great  conference. 

HOW  SHALL  WE  OBTAIN  LIFE  ETERNAL  ? 

I  take  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  great  aim  you  have 
in  view  is  to  obtain  life  eternal.  What  is  life  eternal  ?  The  Apostle 
Paul  tells  us:  "And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee, 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent."  If  we 
will  analyze  this  passage  of  scripture  we  will  see  very  clearly  the 
reason  for  his  statement.    God  is  the  author  of  eternal  life,  and  this 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


great  gift  is  given  untp  men  through  his  beloved  Son.  That  being  the 
case,  it  is  very  important  that  we  should  come  to  know  these  divine 
beings,  that  we  should  come  close  to  them  and  know  something  of 
their  attributes  and  of  their  characters.  The  question  follows  naturally, 
if  we  come  to  know  them,  how,  then,  shall  we  obtain  life  eternal? 
Undoubtedly,  it  will  come  to  us  through  the  knowledge  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  Holy  Ghost  expresses  the  will  of  God  to  the  human  mind, 
so  that  those  who  receive  it  shall  know  how  to  act  and  walk  before 
him.  John  the  Revelator  tells  us  in  chapter  14  of  the  Gospel  of  St. 
John:  "But  the  Comforter,  which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the 
Father  will  send  in  my  name,  he  shall  teach  you  all  things,  and  bring 
all  things  to  your  remembrance  whatsoever  I  have  said  unto  you." 

THROUGH  THE  GIFT  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

It  is  this  great  power  and  gift  that  puts  men  into  close 
relationship  to  God  on  high  and  to  his  beloved  Son,  so  that  they  may 
have  his  mind  and  will.  And  it  is  that  very  principle  of  power 
that  draws  the  people  of  God  together  and  unites  them  in  the  bonds 
of  fellowship  and  love.  If  we  look  out  into  the  world — the  so- 
called  Christian  world — and  take  note  of  the  confusion,  of  the  spirit 
of  strife,  and  contention,  and  division  which  prevail  there,  we  are  at 
once  driven  to  the  conclusion  that  they  are  without  this  great  gift 
of  God,  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  surely  we  may  well  believe  that  it 
is  so ;  because  they  have  entirely  neglected  the  ordinance  of  the  Holy 
Ghost. 

This  doctrine  of  the  Holy  Ghost  was  strongly  emphasized  by 
the  Savior  himself  and  by  his  apostles.  Peter  said :  "Be  baptized 
every  one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  and  you  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 

NO  BAPTISM   COMPLETE  WITHOUT  THIS  GIFT 

Now  it  is  very  apparent  that  any  baptism  that  is  given  without 
the  power  and  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  not  a  complete  baptism.  It 
is  deficient. 

The  Lord  said  upon  one  occasion:  "And  if  a  kingdom 
be  divided  against  itself,  that  kingdom  cannot  stand.  And  if 
a  house  be  divided  against  itself,  that  house  cannot  stand."  And 
we  may  well  add  as  a  corollary :  That  church  which  is  divided 
against  itself  cannot  stand. 

FUNDAMENTALISM  AND  MODERNISM 

There  is  great  division  in  the  churches  of  the  world  today.  The 
following  word  came  over  wire  by  the  Associated  Press  sometime  ago, 
from  New  York  City:  "Modernists  and  fundamentalists  today  pressed 
their  ecclesiastical  warfare,  with  New  York  the  chief  battleground. 
In  all,  five  Christian  denominations,  Protestant  Episcopal,  Pres- 
byterian, Baptists,  Methodist,  and  Unitarian,  have  been  drawn  into 
doctrinal  debate  concerning  chiefly  the  virgin  birth  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  physical  resurrection."    I  mention  this  fact  because  it  is  of  com- 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


27 


mon  knowledge  and  was  published  to  the  world  in  the  daily  papers, 
so  I  think  it  is  appropriate  to  speak  of  it  in  a  public  way: 

"While  debate  has  progressed  furthest  in  the  Protestant  Episcopal 
church,  where  charges  of  heresy  have  been  made,  it  became  known  that 
Presbyterian  modernists,  defeated  in  the  general  assembly  last  May,  were 
planning  vigorously  to  oppose  adoption  of  five  tenets  held  by  funda- 
mentalists. 

"In  a  great  or  less  degree,  clergymen  associated  with  the  Baptist, 
Methodist  and  Unitarian  sects  have  taken  sides  in  the  question  of  modernism 
versus  fundamentalism.  Next  Thursday  evening,  for  example,  the  Rev. 
Dr.  John  Roach  Stratton,  pastor  of  the  Calvary  Baptist  church  and  funda- 
mentalist leader,  debates  the  question  with  the  Riev.  Dr.  Charles  F.  Potter, 
pastor  of  the  West  Side  Unitarian  church. 

"But  with  these  rumblings  in  the  other  Protestant  faiths  distinctly 
audible,  the  chief  engagement  in  progress  today  was  between  the  Episcopalian 
factions." 

The  question  arises  naturally :  What  is  fundamentalism  and  what 
is  meant  by  modernism?    Here  is  the  fundamental  position. 

The  five  articles  of  faith,  as  outlined  in  resolutions  adopted  by 
the  Presbyterian  General  Assembly  at  Indianapolis  on  May  23,  last, 
affirm  "That  it  is  the  essential  doctrine  of  the  church  that  the  holy 
Spirit  inspired  the  writers  of  the  Bible  to  keep  from  error ;  that 
Jesus  Christ  was  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary ;  that  he  offered  himself 
as  a  sacrifice  to  atone  for  the  sins  of  his  followers ;  and  that  he  arose 
from  the  dead  with  the  same  body  in  which  he  suffered;  and  he 
showed  his  divine  power  by  working  miracles." 

Here  is  the  modernist  position : 

"God  is  an  intelligence  and  a  personality,  but  not  in  human  form  and 
is  bodyless.  He  reveals  himself  in  all  nature,  but  is  spirit  and  apart  from 
matter. 

"Heaven  has  no  pearly  gates,  harps  or  hosannas. 

"Hell  has  no  fire.    The  devil  is  an  invention  of  the  Zoroastrian. 

"Prayer  will  never  put  a  loaf  of  bread  in  the  starving  man's  box, 
unless  some  human  being  intervenes. 

"Immortality  will  not  be  in  the  flesh.  Personal  identity  will  endure, 
but  there  will  be  no  resurrection  of  the  body. 

"Belief  in  the  Virgin  birth  is  not  essential. 

"The  miracles  of  the  Old  Testament  are  myths.  Those  of  the  New 
Testament  were  interpolated.  Magic  is  not  becoming  to  the  character 
of  Christ. 

"The  phrase  'ascension  into  heaven'  was  written  in  the  creed  by  a 
man  who  thought  heaven  was  upstairs  of  a  flat  earth." 

And  then  another  minister  declares  that  the  Christian  era  is  at 
an  end: 

"The  end  of  the  Christian  Era  has  come,  and  mankind  has  entered 
the  scientific  era,  in  the  opinion  of  Dr.  Algernon  Sidney  Crapsey,  who 
was  convicted  of  heresy  by  the  Episcopal  church  seventeen  years  ago. 

"He  is  taking  a  keen  interest  in  the  present  controversy  between 
modernists  and  fundamentalists  and  the  approaching  trial  of  Dr.  Lee  W. 
Heaton  of  Fort  Worth,  who  is  accused  of  denying  the  Virgin  birth  of 
Christ. 

"One-third  of  the  Episcopal  clergymen  do  not  believe  the  story  of 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Virgin  birth,  the  story  of  the  origin  of  man  or  that  the  world  was 
created  in  six  days,"  he  said. 

"  'In  my  case,'  he  continued,  'the  court  was  picked  to  convict,  and  did 
so.  That  will  happen  in  this  case  if  there  is  a  trial,  but  I  believe  such  a 
storm  of  protest  will  break  upon  the  bishops  that  they  will  not  dare  have 
a  trial.' 

"  'In  my  trial  the  church  refused  to  enter  into  the  truth  of  matters. 
It  set  intellectual  belief  above  intellectual  truth. 

"  'If  Dr.  Heaton  is  tried  the  trial  will  condemn  a  single  man  and  leave 
one-third  of  the  church  believing  what  the  condemned  man  believed.  It  will 
take  from  the  church  what  little  moral  power  it  has  left. 

"  'The  Christian  era  is  at  an  end,  and  the  church  is  in  the  course 
of  dissolution.    We  are  in  the  scientific  era. 

"  'Thinking  men  do  not  believe  the  story  of  the  Virgin  birth.  They 
do  not  believe  the  literal  story  of  the  resurrection.  They  do  not  believe 
that  Balaam's  ass  turned  around  and  said  to  him:  "What  are  you  doing 
there?"  Science  proves  the  world  was  not  created  in  six  days.  The  healings 
of  Christ  may  be  accepted,  for  they  were  not  miracles.' " 

THE  SCRIPTURE  PLAIN  ON  THE  POINTS  IN  CONTROVERSY 

Now  you  see,  brethren  and  sisters,  how  very  far  apart  the  Christian 
ministers  are  in  the  same  church,  and  as  between  the  churches.  They 
are  drawing  apart,  they  are  disunited,  they  fail  to  see  the  light.  This 
is  evidence  to  me  that  they  have  not  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  with 
them  to  enlighten  their  minds  and  to  direct  their  course. 

Now,  the  scriptures  are  exceedingly  plain  on  some  of  these  points 
that  are  being  discussed  and  which  may  end  in  the  rending  of  the 
Christian  churches  of  today.  Take  for  instance,  the  birth  of  Christ. 
This  incident  is  given  in  the  simplest  language.   You  will  find  in  Luke : 

THE  BIRTH  OF  CHRIST 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  her,  Fear  not,  Mary:  for  thou  hast  found 
favor  with  God. 

"And,  behold,  thou  shalt  conceive  in  the  womb,  and  bring  forth  a  Son, 
and  shalt  call  his  name  Jesus. 

"He  shall  be  great,  and  shall  be  called  the  Son  of  the  Highest: 
and  the  Lord  God  shall  give  unto  him  the  throne  of  his  father  David: 

"And  he  shall  reign  over  the  house  of  Jacob  forever;  and  of  his  kingdom 
there  shall  be  no  end.  , 

"Then  said  Mary  unto  the  angel,  How  shall  this  be,  seeing  I  know 
not  a  man? 

"And  the  angel  answered  and  said  unto  her,  The  Holy  Ghost  shall 
come  upon  thee,  and  the  power  of  the  Highest  shall  overshadow  thee: 
therefore  also  that  holy  thing  which  shall  be  born  of  thee  shall  be  called 
the  Son  of  God." 

How  direct,  how  beautiful,  how  forceful,  is  this  language,  to 
tell  us  of  the  birth  of  the  Savior  of  the  world.  How  is  it  possible, 
brothers  and  sisters,  to  misunderstand  such  language?  You  can  only 
account  for  it  by  the  absence  of  the  Spirit,  for  the  Spirit  of  God 
testifies  that  that  is  the  truth. 

THE  RESURRECTION  OF  THE  CHRIST 

With  respect  to  the  resurrection,  this  great  principle  is  quite  as 
beautifully  set  forth,  as  clearly  defined,  as  that  concerning  which  I 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


29 


have  read.  These  words  occur  in  the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew,  28th 
chapter. 

"And  the  angel  answered  and  said  unto  the  women,  Fear  not  ye:  for 
I  know  that  ye  seek  Jesus,  which  was  crucified. 

"He  is  not  here:  for  he  is  risen,  as  he  said.  Come,  see  the  place  where 
the  Lord  lay. 

"And  go  quickly,  and  tell  his  disciples  that  he  is  risen  from  the  dead: 
and,  behold,  he  goeth  before  you  into  Galilee;  there  shall  ye  see  him:  lo, 
I  have  told  you. 

"And  they  departed  quickly  from  the  sepulchre  with  fear  and  great 
joy;  and  did  run  to  bring  his  disciples  word. 

"And  as  they  went  to  tell  his  disciples,  behold,  Jesus  met  them,  saying, 
All  hail.   And  they  came  and  held  him  by  the  feet,  and  worshipped  him." 

And  in  chapter  27:  "And  the  graves  were  opened;  and  many  bodies  of 
the  saints  which  slept  arose, 

"And  came  out  of  the  graves  after  his  resurrection,  and  went  into  the 
holy  city,  and  appeared  unto  many." 

Here  is  the  testimony  of  the  scriptures  respecting  this  great  doc- 
trine of  the  resurrection. 

THE  UNITED  FAITH  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  refer  with  some  pride,  but  not  in  a 
boasting  spirit,  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
You  will  remember  the  testimony  that  was  borne  by  President  Grant 
this  morning,  when  he  .said  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  was  never  in  better  condition,  in  that  a  greater  degree 
of  unity  has  never  existed  in  the  Church  than  at  the  present  time; 
and  this,  after  one  hundred  years.  The  Church  is  more  united.  I 
think  without  doubt  the  Latter-day  Saints  see  more  clearly,  eye  to  eye, 
understand  more  fully  and  completely  the  principles  of  the  holy  gospel, 
than  ever  they  did  in  their  lives  before.  This  is  easily  explained 
in  what  I  have  already  said — the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  given 
with  every  baptism  into  our  Church.  We  emphasize  faith ;  we  speak 
of  the  importance  of  repentance ;  we  point  to  the  necessity  of  baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  laying  on  of  hands 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — the  spirit  of  truth.  It  is  that  spirit 
which  draws  the  Latter-day  Saints  together  and  unites  and  cements 
them,  so  to  speak,  in  a  solid  body.    I  rejoice  in  this  testimony. 

PERSONAL  TESTIMONY 

After  an  experience  in  the  ministry  of  thirty-six  years,  I  testify 
to  you  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  do  know  positively  that  Jesus 
is  and  was  the  Christ,  and  that  he  was  crucified  for  the  sins  of  the 
world,  for  you  and  for  me;  and  it  is  through  that  great  sacrifice 
and  our  own  good  works  that  we  will  be  saved,  and  not  otherwise. 

And  I  testify  to  you  of  the  Virgin  birth — that  Jesus  was  the 
Only  Begotten  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh — and  I  have  no  doubt 
that  this  is  the  testimony  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  in  this  building, 
that  we  see  eye  to  eye  upon  this  subject,  that  we  agree  perfectly  in 
respect  to  this  great  doctrine  of  the  resurrection.    We  go  down  into 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  graves,  we  expect  to  come  up  out  of  our  graves,  and  take  up 
these  bodies  purified,  and  go  on  to  exaltation  and  glory. 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  do  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a 
prophet  of  God,  and  a  great  prophet  of  God,  a  mighty  man.  He 
was  the  man  who  founded  this  Church  and  kingdom  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
that  was  given  to  him.  Great  was  that  man.  Now,  I  rejoice  in  these 
things  beyond  measure,  and  I  pray  God,  the  eternal  Father,  that  he 
will  continue  to  bless  this  people  and  strengthen  them  and  unite  them 
together  by  the  power  of  his  Spirit,  that  we  may  be  able  to  accomplish 
the  work  which  is  required  at  our  hands.  This  I  testify  to  you,  and 
this  blessing  I  ask  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "My  Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  Miss  Arline  Ridges, 
a  granddaughter  of  Brother  Ridges,  who  was  the  original  builder  of 
the  Tabernacle  organ. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

I  feel  very  keenly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  responsibility,  in 
addressing  this  large  congregation.  I  believe  that  the  prayers  and  faith 
of  good  men  and  women  avail  much  with  the  Lord,  and  I  therefore 
ask  that  you  give  to  me  your  sympathy  and  your  faith  and  prayers, 
that  I  may  be  able  to  bring  forth  something  that  will  be  worthy  your 
consideration. 

CONDITIONS  MADE  KNOWN  BY  STATISTICS 

In  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office  of  the  Church,  there  are  kept 
and  compiled  many  important  statistics,  and  these  statistics  give  to  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  who  choose  to  consider  them,  an  under- 
standing of  conditions  which  it  would  be  next  to  impossible  to  acquire 
through  visiting  in  the  Church,  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion.  We 
have  had  some  of  these  statistics  presented  by  our  President,  in  the 
opening  session  of  this  conference,  and  I  desire  to  call  attention  to 
some  others,  briefly,  which  indicate  conditions  which  are  in  need  of 
being  improved  or  corrected;  conditions  with  respect  to  which  per- 
haps the  great  majority  of  the  people  are  not  informed.    For  example: 

LARGE  NUMBER  OF  UNMARRIED  IN  THE  CHURCH 

From  the  reports  of  1923,  we  are  informed  that  there  are  in  the 
Church  27,104  members  of  the  Church  over  21  years  of  age  who  have 
never  been  married.  When  you  think  that  this  large  tabernacle  will 
seat  about  eight  thousand  people,  multiply  that  number  by  three  and 
one-half,  or  nearly  so,  to  equal  the  number  of  unmarried  people  in 
the  Church  over  twenty-one  years  of  age,  it  is  almost  appalling!  And 
then,  if  we  were  to  add  to  that  number  the  young  women  of  the  Church, 
between  the  ages  of  18  and  21,  who  might  be  said  to  be  of  marriagable 
age.  the  number  would  be  increased  by  some  thousands. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  31 

I 

WHY  IS  THIS  CONDITION? 

Why  is  this  condition  in  the  Church  we  may  ask?  And  if  it  is 
in  need  of  being  remedied,  how  can  it  best  be  accomplished?  We,  as 
a  people,  believe  in  marriage.  It  is  with  us  a  religious  principle.  In- 
deed, we  believe  in  marriages  such  as  the  Lord  has  revealed ;  that  we 
should  be  sealed,  for  time  and  eternity,  by  those  having  the  sealing 
power.  We  are  informed  that  such  marriages  as  are  performed  in 
our  temples  are  necessary  for  men  and  women  to  obtain  a  fulness  of 
glory  and  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our  Father  in  Heaven ; 
for  those  who  attain  to  that  glory  are  to  have  a  continuation  of  the 
seeds,  forever,  an  eternal  increase.  Why  then  should  there  be  so  many 
members  of  the  Church  of  marriageable  age  who  are  not  married?  I 
am  led  to  wonder  if  we  are  partaking  of  the  spirit  of  the  world  in  this 
thing;  for  if  I  am  correctly  informed  there  are  religionists  who  believe 
that  in  the  practice  of  celibacy  they  can  get  nearer  to  the  Lord,  that 
they  can  minister  more  satisfactorily  to  him  in  the  unmarried  state 
than  in  the  married  relation.  I  am  sure  that  this  is  a  great  mistake, 
an  untrue  doctrine. 

FORBIDDING  TO  MARRY,  A  DOCTRINE  OF  DEVILS 

Indeed,  I  think  I  might  say  that  it  is  a  doctrine  of  devils,  and  I 
would  quote  to  you  from  the  Scriptures  to  sustain  my  understanding 
of  this  doctrine.  The  Apostle  Paul,  in  his  epistle  to  Timothy  ( 1  Tim. 
4:1-3),  says : 

"Now  the  Spirit  speaketh  expressly,  that  in  the  latter  times  some  shall 
depart  from  the  faith,  giving  heed  to  seducing  spirits,  and  doctrines  of  devils ; 
Speaking  lies  in  hypocrisy ;  having  their  conscience  seared  with  a  hot  iron : 
Forbidding  to  marry,  and  commanding  to  abstain  from  meats,  which  God  hath 
created  to  be  received  with  thanksgiving  of  them  which  believe  and  know  the 
truth." 

Here  the  Apostle  Paul  characterizes  this  forbidding  to  marry  as 
a  doctrine  of  devils,  as  I  understand  it,  along  with  lies  in  hypocrisy, 
and  one  of  the  great  evils  that  should  characterize  the  falling  away  from 
the  truth  in  the  last  days.  I  hope  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  are  not 
imbibing  those  worldly  ideas ;  for  we  have  been  called  out  of  the  world, 
as  we  read  in  Revelations  18 :45 : 

"And  I  heard  another  voice  from  heaven,  saying,  Come  out  of  her,  my 
people,  that  ye  be  not  partakers  of  her  sins,  and  that  ye  receive  not  of  her 
plagues. 

"For  her  sins  have  reached  unto  heaven,  and  God  hath  remembered  her 
iniquities." 

EXEMPLARS  TO  THE  WORLD 

We  are  expected  to  be  exemplars  unto  the  world  of  mankind,  in 
all  things  that  are  good,  right  and  righteous,  and  thus  be  preachers  of 
the  truth  by  example  as  well  as  by  precept.  There  is  no  justification 
that  I  can  find  in  the  Scriptures  for  the  non-belief  in  marriage  as  a 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

i 

principle  and  ordinance  of  salvation,  but  on  the  contrary  we  find 
the  Apostle  Paul  teaching  the  Hebrews  that  marriage  is  honorable  in 
all ;  and  in  a  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  known  as  the  49th 
Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  find  the  Lord's  own  words : 
"Whoso  forbiddeth  to  marry  is  not  ordained  of  God,  for  marriage  is 
ordained  of  God  unto  man." 

And  in  Genesis  2:18:  "And  the  Lord  God  said,  It  is  not  good 
that  the  man  should  be  alone." 

I  would  ask  who  knows  better  than  the  Lord  what  is  good  for 
man ;  and  what  is  good  for  man  is  good  for  woman,  and  it  is  not  good 
that  woman  should  be  alone. 

In  Genesis,  the  5th  chapter,  I  read  this :  "Male  and  female  created 
he  them;  and  blessed  them,  and  called  their  name  Adam." 

That  is  a  rather  peculiar  expression  "called  their  name  Adam." 
The  author  of  the  Compendium,  commenting  on  that  expression,  says 
that  man  in  his  fulness  is  a  two-fold  organization,  male  and  female; 
either  being  incapable  of  filling  the  measure  of  their  creation,  alone. 
It  requires  a  union  of  the  two  to  complete  man  in  the  image  of  God. 

TWO   KINDS  OF   MARRIAGES  AUTHORITY 

There  are  two  kinds  of  marriages  particularly  taken  note  of  in  the 
statistics  of  the  Church ;  one  we  call  temple  marriage,  and  the  other 
civil  marriage.  Temple  marriages,  however,  are  civil  marriages  in 
that  they  comply  with  all  the  requirements  of  the  civil  law ;  but  temple 
marriages  have  other  important  elements  in  them  that  the  civil  mar- 
riage, performed  outside  of  the  temples,  have  not.  For  instance,  the 
individual  solemnizing  these  temple  marriages  must  have  authority. 
He  who  holds  the  keys,  the  President  of  the  Church,  delegates  this 
authority  to  man  to  seal  on  earth  and  it  shall  be  sealed  in  heaven,  for 
he  has  received  this  authority  and  has  the  right  to  delegate  it  to  those 
who  are  worthy,  as  he  may  elect. 

We  read  in  Matthew  18:18  the  following:  "Whatsoever  ye  shall 
bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in  heaven:  and  whatsoever  ye  shall  loose 
on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven." 

This  is  by  the  Savior  unto  his  disciples ;  and  they  who  held  that 
sealing  and  loosing  power  visited  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,  in  the  spring  of  1829,  on  the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna  river, 
and  there  conferred  that  authority  upon  them,  and  they  in  turn  nave 
conferred  it  upon  others.  So  these  marriages  performed  in  the  temples 
are  by  those  who  have  been  thus  authorized  to  speak  for  the  Lord, 
and  the  individuals  contracting  marriage  under  these  circumstances 
covenant  most  solemnly  with  each  other  to  be  husband  and  wife  for 
time  and  for  all  eternity,  as  contrasted  with  the  civil  marriage  cove- 
nant "until  death  do  them  part."  The  ceremony  is  of  that  character 
making  the  man  and  the  woman  husband  and  wife  for  time  and  for 
all  eternity,  so  that  these  civil  marriages,  after  all,  are,  we  might  say, 
but  trial  marriages ;  and  it  would  seem  so  from  the  fact  that  there  are 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


33 


so  many  of  our  Church  members  who  accept  of  a  civil  marriage  cere- 
mony before  coming  to  the  temple,  and  then  later  come  to  the  temple 
to  be  sealed. 

MARRIAGE  FOR  ETERNITY 

I  remember  on  one  occasion  when  I  was  associated  with  the  presi- 
dency of  the  Tooele  stake,  a  prominent  non-member  of  the  Church 
requested  me  to  perform  the  marriage  ceremony  for  him.  He  was  about 
to  marry  a  beautiful  woman,  but  before  the  ceremony  was  performed 
he  called  me  to  one  side  and  said :  "Now,  Mr.  Richards,  don't  make 
this  thing  too  solid.  We  don't  know  whether  we  will  be  able  to  live 
together  happily  or  not."  That  represents,  I  fear,  the  feeling  ot  too 
many  men  and  women  who  enter  into  these  solemn  obligations  of  mar- 
riage outside  of  the  Church,  as  compared  with  those  who  marry  in  the 
temple,  for  these  marry  with  the  thought  of  never  separating,  of  mak- 
ing themselves  congenial,  yielding  here  and  there  where  it  is  necessary, 
and  fulfiling  the  law  that  they  may  be  one  in  time  and  throughout  all 
eternity.  The  statistics  of  the  Church  go  to  show  that  those  marriages 
performed  in  the  temple  are  more  enduring.  There  are  more  divorce- 
ments following  civil  marriages,  more  than  half  as  many  more,  than 
there  are  following  temple  marriages  according  to  the  statistics  of  the 
Church. 

TEMPLE  AND  CIVIL  MARRIAGES  IN  THE  CHURCH  CONTRASTED 

I  might  give  you  in  detail  the  average  per  year  for  the  last  five 
years,  and  I  will  say  here  that  it  is  a  deplorable  thing  that  since  1919 
the  civil  marriages  have  outnumbered  the  temple  marriages  in  the 
Church  each  year.  The  average  number  of  temple  marriages  in  the 
Church  per  year  for  the  last  five  years  is  two  thousand  nine  hundred 
and  forty-six.  The  average  number  of  civil  marriages  is  three  thou- 
sand two  hundred  and  thirty-four.  The  divorcements  after  temple 
marriages,  eighty-four;  and  the  divorcements  after  civil  marriages, 
one  hundred  fifty;  or,  in  other  words,  one  divorcement  to  every  twenty- 
one  civil  marriages  in  the  Church,  and  one  divorcement  to  every  thirty- 
six  temple  marriages.  It  is  my  belief  that  those  very  reasons,  which 
might  be  assigned  for  members  of  the  Church  not  going  to  the  temple 
for  marriage,  are  the  causes  of  many  unhappy  marriages  and  the  evil 
of  divorce  does  not  tell  the  whole  story  of  sorrow  which  follows.  Only 
those  who  in  sorrow  and  disappointment  have  reached  the  climax  and 
can  endure  the  conditions  no  longer,  receive  divorcements.  Many 
others  suffer  on  and  endure  it  for  the  sake  of  their  children  or  others 
who  are  concerned. 

PEOPLE  OF  ONE  RELIGIOUS  FAITH  SHOULD  MARRY 

From  the  great  number  of  men  and  women  in  the  Church  who 
have  not  been  married,  more  than  twenty-seven  thousand,  it  would 
seem  that  those  within  the  Church  who  do  marry  ought  to  be  able  to 
find  companions  without  having  to  go  outside  of  the  Church.    I  want 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


to  tell  you  that  while  some  of  those  marriages,  where  they  are  of  dif- 
ferent faiths,  may  result  in  happiness,  the  great  majority  of  them,  I 
believe,  result  in  disappointment,  and  sorrow,  if  not  in  divorcements. 
We  would,  therefore,  advise  our  Latter-day  Saint  girls  and  Latter-day 
Saint  boys  to  marry  those  of  their  own  faith,  and  we  would  also  advise 
those  who  are  not  of  us  to  marry  those  of  their  own  faith. 

WE  WANT  OUR  PEOPLE  TO  MARRY 

Then  there  is  one  other  thought  that  I  want  to  leave  with  you: 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  want  our  people  to  marry.  It  would  be  a 
serious  thing  in  my  family  if  I  had  a  son  or  a  daughter  that  should 
grow  up  without  marrying.  We  want  the  parents  to  use  their  influ- 
ence to  have  their  children  marry  and  let  them  marry  young,  when  the 
spirit  of  courtship  and  marriage  is  upon  them,  and  then  we  want  them, 
of  course,  to  marry  in  the  Church,  in  the  right  way;  and  when  they 
are  married  they  should  fulfil  the  law  which  God  has  given,  to  mul- 
tiply and  replenish  the  earth.  That  is  the  thing  which  many,  I  feel, 
are  not  doing  today,  to  the  full,  and  it  is  my  firm  conviction  that  the 
time  will  come  when  those  who  are  not  doing  their  full  duty  will  know 
the  loss  which  they  are  sustaining,  and  it  will  be  hell  and  torment  to 
many  of  them.  Now,  we  know  that  some  cannot  bear  children,  and 
some  because  of  weakness  are  not  able  to  do  as  much  as  others.  God 
knows.  I  believe  in  the  doctrine  of  the  Scripture,  that  children  are 
an  heritage  from  God,  and  happy  is  the  man  that  hath  his  quiver  full 
of  them.  And  I  believe  in  the  saying  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  that  when 
God  offers  a  man  a  blessing  and  he  refuses  to  accept  or  receive  that 
blessing,  that  man  is  damned.  I  believe  that  our  Father  has  these  chil- 
dren to  give  to  us,  and  I  believe  that  if  we  do  not  accept  them  we  will 
meet  with  this .  disappointment.  A  little  girl,  eleven  or  twelve  years 
of  age,  said  to  her  mother  one  day:  "Mother,  why  did  you  have  so 
many  children  ?  When  I  grow  up  and  get  married  I  will  not  have  so 
many  children."  Then  the  mother  said  to  her :  "My  daughter,  let  us 
see.  You  are  number  fourteen.  Suppose  I  had  quit  having  children 
when  I  had  thirteen,  where  would  you  have  been,  and  where  would 
your  little  brother  have  been?"  Of  course  the  little  girl  had  not  thought 
of  it  in  that  way.  We  value  our  children  above  price.  A  million  dol- 
lars would  not  purchase  ojie  of  them.  There  will  come  a  time  just 
as  sure  as  we  live,  brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  will  know  what  we 
might  have  had  and  what  we  have  not  received,  where  we  have  re- 
jected the  offer  from  a  kind  and  loving  Father,  so  that  we  may  then 
say  with  the  poet,  "Of  all  sad  words  of  tongue  or  pen,  the  saddest  are 
these :  it  might  have  been." 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  he  help  us  to  see 
and  understand  these  principles,  to  have  faith  and  courage  to  live  them, 
that  we  may  be  saved,  and  be  an  example  in  these  things  to  our  chil- 
dren, worthy  of  their  emulation,  I  pray,  in  the  nar«e  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 
"ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


35 


It  is  just  three  years  since  I  last  stood  before  a  congregation  in 
a  General  Conference  of  the  Church.  Perhaps  some  of  you  would  like 
to  know  how  I  have  been  spending  the  time,  Bill  Nye,  the  American 
humorist,  was  asked  by  a  correspondent  about  his  habits  of  life  and 
methods  of  work — how  he  employed  his  time,  and  so  forth.  He  an- 
swered :  "I  do  most  of  my  writing  in  a  sitting  posture  or  in  an  auto- 
graph album.  1  belong  to  an  athletic  club  and  a  pair  of  Indian  clubs. 
When  I  am  not  engaged  in  thought,  I  am  employed  in  recovering  from 
its  effects."  My  case  is  somewhat  similar,  or  at  least  that  is  sug- 
gestive of  my  case.  I  have  been  absent  three  years.  Half  of  that  time 
I  was  filling  a  mission  in  a  foreign  land.  During  the  other  half  I  have 
been  "recovering  from  its  effects."  Not  the  effects  of  my  mission, 
either;  but  the  effects  of  illness,  which  put  an  end  to  my  mission  and 
made  necessary  my  return  much  earlier  than  I  had  anticipated. 

MISSION   TO  EUROPE 

I  left  Salt  Lake  City,  bound  for  Europe,  on  the  24th  of  May,  1921, 
and  landed  at  Liverpool  in  the  early  days  of  June.  My  wife  went  with 
me.  also  a  party  of  missionaries,  including'  Elder  William  A.  Morton, 
who  was  to  assist  me  in  the  editorial  department  of  the  Millennial  Star. 
I  had  been  appointed  to  succeed  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  as  Presi- 
dent of  the  European  Mission,  the  affairs  of  which  he  turned  over  to 
me  on  the  first  day  of  July.  Early  that  month,  at  a  special  convention 
of  mission  and  conference  presidents  called  for  the  purpose,  I  obtained 
further  knowledge  of  the  affairs  of  the  Church  in  the  British  Islands 
and  adjacent  countries.  1  had  previously  visited,  in  company  with 
President  Smith,  a  few  of  the  English  conferences,  and  had  been  in- 
troduced by  him  to  quite  a  number  of  prominent  men,  including 
journalists,  police  authorities,  steamship  magnates,  a  Wrelsh  member  of 
Parliament,  the  Lord  Mayor  of  Liverpool,  and  the  American  and  Ger- 
man consuls ;  so  that  when  he  sailed  for  home  I  had  matters  fairly  well 
in  hand. 

PREACHING  ON  THE  CONTINENT 

Soon  after  his  departure  I  made  a  tour  of  some  of  the  Continental 
mission  fields,  accompanied  by  my  wife  and  two  of  the  Elders — 
Thomas  M.  Wheeler  and  Arthur  II.  Taylor,  both  choice  men,  the 
former  the  mission  secretary.  We  passed  through  France,  Switzerland, 
Germany,  Belgium  and  Holland,  attending  conferences  and  holding 
special  meetings  in  many  of  the  principal  cities.  The  Elders  and  Saints 
welcomed  us  joyfully,  and  large  numbers  of  strangers  flocked  lo  hear 
what  we  had  to  say.  Our  largest  gathering  was  in  the  Casino  Music 
Hall,  Berlin,  where  we  addressed  congregations,  afternoon  and  evening, 
numbering  twelve  hundred  and  thirteen  hundred  people,  about  two- 
thirds  of  them  non-members  of  the  Church.  They  paid  strict  atten- 
tion, only  one  interruption  occurring,  and  that  of  a  perfectly  respect- 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ful  character.  While  I  was  speaking  and  my  remarks  were  being  in- 
terpreted "line  upon  line"  by  one  of  the  German  brethren,  a  young 
man  arose  in  the  body  of  the  hall  and  politely  requested  the  interpreter 
to  speak  less  rapidly,  as  he  wished  to  "get  the  points."  Another 
auditor  was  the  organist  of  the  Kaiser's  Church  in  Berlin ;  he  attended 
our  afternoon  meeting,  and  volunteered  an  organ  solo  for  the  evening 
session.  Everywhere  we  were  treated  with  the  greatest  kindness  and 
courtesy.  Quite  a  change  from  the  days  when  the  Saints  in  Germany, 
in  order  to  evade  the  police,  had  to  meet  secretly  in  small  groups  in 
private  homes,  with  the  blinds  drawn ;  and  when  the  Elders,  if  caught 
preaching  anywhere  in  that  country,  were  imprisoned  or  banished  sum- 
marily. We  found  the  work  of  the  Lord  prospering  in  that  mission 
anri  in  the  Netherlands,  under  the  efficient  labors  of  Elders  Serge  F. 
Ballif  and  John  P.  Lillywhite,  the  presiding  brethren,  and  their  faith- 
ful helpers. 

SCENES  OF  INTEREST 

While  in  Paris  we  took  an  excursion  to  Rheims,  where  we  viewed 
the  shattered  Cathedral,  bombarded  by  German  guns  during  the  Great 
War;  and  thence,  for  several  miles,  traversed  the  famous  "Hinden- 
burg  Line,"  passing  through  the  remains  of  French  villages  desolated 
by  the  fearful  strife.  The  scenic  wonders  of  Switzerland,  "the  castled 
crags"  and  terraced  vineyards  of  the  Rhine,  the  famous  field  of  Water- 
loo, and  other  objects  of  familiar  interest  to  the  tourist,  I  have  not 
time  to  dwell  upon.  At  Liege,  in  Belgium,  we  lunched  at  the  home  of 
the  American  counsul,  George  M.  Hanson  of  Ogden,  Utah,  and  in- 
spected, nine  miles  out,  the  ruins  of  Fort  Loncin,  whose  heroic  garrison 
made  such  a  wonderful  defense  against  the  overwhelming  Teutonic 
invasion  of  1914.  At  Rotterdam,  in  Holland,  I  had  the  privilege  of 
speaking  from  the  pulpit  of  the  little  church  where  the  Pilgrim  Fathers 
held  their  farewell  service,  prior  to  embarking  for  America  in  1620. 

AGAIN   IN  BRITAIN 

Having  spent  six  weeks  upon  the  Continent,  we  returned  to  Eng- 
land, landing  at  Harwich,  and  barely  escaping  the  humiliation  of  being 
sent  back  to  Holland  to  have  our  passports  vised  by  the  British  consul, 
we  having  failed,  through  misinformation,  to  observe  that  formality. 
I  had  contracted  a  heavy  cold  in  Holland,  and  for  the  next  few  days 
after  my  return  to  Liverpool,  was  disabled  for  active  service.  The 
fall  and  winter  conferences  of  the  British  Mission — fourteen  in  num- 
ber, held  one  week  apart — were  just  beginning,  the  first  one  in  Ire- 
land, where  things  were  in  a  turmoil,  men  being  shot  down  every  few 
minutes  or  so.  I  was  kind-o'-glad  I  couldn't  go,  and  Brother  Morton 
was  none  too  happy  at  being  sent.  But  he  went,  and  had  a  good  time 
— there's  always  a  good  time  where  Brother  Morton  goes — and  came 
back  rejoicing;  the  return  trip  being  particularly  delightful. 
(Laughter.)  The  remainder  of  the  conferences  I  was  able  to  attend, 
and  later  I  also  visited  the  war-torn  Emerald  Isle. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


37 


AN  ANTI-"MORMON"  ATTACK 

With  the  opening  of  the  New  Year,  a  fierce  anti-"Mormon"  on- 
slaught began  in  many  of  the  British  newspapers;  the  "stunt  press" 
they  call  it  over  there — the  equivalent  for  "yellow  journals"  in  Amer- 
ica. Twenty-six  of  them  were  barking  at  us  simultaneously  all  over 
the  land.  During  the  next  three  months  our  pens  and  tongues  were 
kept  busy  refuting  the  slanders  with  which  the  country  was  flooded, 
and  presenting  the  facts  in  relation  to  Utah  and  her  people.  The 
principal  charge  made  against  the  Elders  was  that  of  inducing  young 
women  to  go  to  Utah  for  polygamous  purposes.  The  only  "evidence" 
adduced  in  support  of  this  charge  was  a  quotation  from  one  of  our 
Articles  of  Faith — an  adaptation  of  the  well  known  words  of  St. 
Paul :  "If  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or 
praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these  things."  "These  things,"  of  course, 
were  the  British  girls.  The  accusers  of  the  brethren  affected 
to  regard  this  as  a  confession  of  guilt.  Let  me  say  here  that 
the  standing  reward  of  two  hundred  pounds  ($1,000)  offered  years 
ago  by  Mr.  V.  S.  Peet,  for  one  case  of  a  British  girl  lured  to  Utah  by 
"Mormon"  influence,  is  still  unclaimed. 

The  intelligent  classes  were  not  deceived  by  the  false  reports 
spread  abroad,  many  of  which  were  so  ridiculous  as  to  carry  with  them 
their  own  refutation ;  but  they  were  accepted  as  true  by  the  ignorant  in- 
habitants of  the  slums,  stirred  up  in  some  instances  by  ministers  of 
the  churches.  One  of  our  most  active  assailants  was  a  minister  who 
had  been  a  Texas  cowboy,  but  having  inherited  an  English  baronetcy, 
had  returned  to  his  native  land,  and  been  made  the  pastor  of  a  church 
in  London.  This  reverend  gentleman  had  the  audacity  and  mendacity 
to  say  to  his  Sunday  congregation:  "I  have  seen  with  my  own  eyes 
the  bloodstained  boulder  at  the  back  of  Smith's  house,  freshly  stained 
with  the  blood  of  rebellious  girl  converts."  Another  of  his  lurid 
tales  was  to  the  effect  that  the  "Mormon"  men  killed  off  their  old 
wives  by  giving  them  a  strong  alkali  drink  which  destroyed  them 
gradually,  thus  making  way  for  younger  wives,  recruited  through  the 
labors  of  the  missionaries.  Needless  to  say,  alkali  was  not  the  only  kind 
of  lie  used  in  his  statement.  The  British  Government's  chief  aliens 
inspector,  by  direction  of  the  Home  Secretary,  applied  to  me  for  data 
regarding  "Mormon"  missionary  and  emigrational  activities,  and  the 
same  was  promptly  furnished.  I  then  asked  him :  "Is  the  Home  Office 
agitated  over  the  present  outcry  against  us  ?"  Smilingly  he  answered : 
"Not  at  all ;  we  understand ;  but  we  must  be  prepared,  when  pressure 
comes,  to  present  the  facts  in  reply."  As  for  the. papers  and  the 
"movies,"  they  made  money  out  of  the  agitation,  which  of  course  was 
their  principal  object.  When  requested  to  publish  replies  to  the  sensa- 
tional canards,  most  of  the  editors  or  managers  flatly  refused.  One 
of  them  said:    "We  are  out  to  crush  Mormonism  at  any  cost." 

AH  the  Elders  in  the  mission,  and  many  of  the  Sisters,  did  splen- 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


did  service  in  repelling-  this  foul  and  unprovoked  attack.  Among  its 
unpleasant  results  were  the  tarring  and  feathering  of  three  Elders  in 
Scotland,  the  smashing  of  the  plate-glass  windows  of  the  London  Con- 
ference house,  and  the  temporary  cessation  of  open-air  meetings  in 
some  parts.  But  on  the  whole  we  were  benefited  by  the  assault ;  it 
awakened  interest  in  our  cause,  made  friends  for  us,  increased  bap- 
tisms, and  enhanced  the  attendance  at  our  meetings. 

DUTIES   OF   MISSION  PRESIDENT 

My  time  was  fully  occupied  in  editing  the  Star  (ably  assisted  by- 
Brother  Morton),  in  writing  and  publishing  pamphlets  setting  forth 
our  tenets  and  views,  assigning  and  instructing  missionaries,  visiting 
the  conferences,  preaching  wherever  opportunity  offered,  and  doing 
whatever  else  devolved  upon  the  Mission  President.  I  presented  a 
handsome  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  the  Home  Secretary,  Mr. 
Shortt,  and  sent  pamphlets  and  other  literature  to  every  member  of 
Parliament  and  to  all  the  leading  men  of  Great  Britain.  I  worked 
early  and  late,  and  as  hard  as  my  strength  would  permit — much  of  the 
time  at  a  great  disadvantage,  owing  to  a  physical  ailment  which  had 
troubled  me  a  long  while,  and  for  which,  I  am  now  convinced,  I  should 
have  had  an  operation  before  leaving  home.  President  Grant,  who 
knew  of  it,  had  given  me  my  choice,  whether  to  go  or  not  until  such 
an  operation  was  performed.  I  went  without  it,  but  after  that  strenu- 
ous year  in  the  mission  field,  found  that  I  could  not  safely  put  it  off 
any  longer. 

IN  THE  HOSPITAL 

Accordingly,  after  completing  the  round  of  the  spring  confer- 
ences in  England,  Scotland,  Wales  and  Ireland,  deferring  (as  I  then 
thought  temporarily  )  a  visit  to  the  Scandinavian  countries,  I  went  up 
to  London,  entered  a  private  hospital  or  "nursing  home,"  and  under- 
went the  operation  contemplated.  1  had  first-class  surgical  attend- 
ance, but  for  some  reason  the  operation  was  not  entirely  successful, 
and  had  to  be  repeated;  the  result  being  that  I  was  detained  in  the 
"Home"  for  a  much  longer  period  than  I  had  counted  upon.  Thirty 
days  was  said  to  be  the  usual  time,  but  I  lay  there  for  nearly  fourteen 
weeks,  physically  helpless,  yet  with  mental  faculties  equal  to  the  task 
of  furnishing  editorial  articles  for  the  Star,  and  corresponding  with 
the  brethren  here  at  home  and  with  those  whom  I  had  left  in  charge 
at  Liverpool.  My  faithful  wife  was  with  me  through  it  all.  lightening 
by  her  daily  visits  and  tender  ministrations  my  burden  of  affliction. 
Finally,  I  emerged  from  the  hospital,  and  after  a  ten  days'  rest  at 
the  hospitable  home  of  Brother  Ralph  J.  Pugh,  who  with  his  amiable 
wife  had  been  exceedingly  kind  and  attentive,  I  wrent  back  to  my  post 
and  resumed  work — too  soon,  T  found  to  my  cost  before  many  days 
had  passed.  I  suffered  a  relapse,  and  became  more  helpless  than 
ever. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


39 


RELEASE  AND  RETURN 

Some  weeks  of  misery  went  by  and  I  then  decided  to  come  home, 
President  Grant  having  given  me  an  honorable  release,  with  advice  to 
return  as  soon  as  I  could  safely  travel.  On  the  10th  of  November  I 
sailed  from  Liverpool  for  Montreal,  my  wife  and  two  Elders — Clyde 
Romney  and  Claude  W.  Hinckley — coming  with  me  and  caring  for 
me  all  along  the  way.  Never  was  invalid  waited  upon  more  faith- 
fully. I  could  not  have  done  without  their  help,  especially  during  our 
unfortunate  and  unlooked  for  detention  in  quarantine  on  a  bleak  island 
in  the  St.  Lawrence  River,  within  a  day's  distance  of  Montreal.  Two 
hundred  and  forty  first-class  passengers,  housed  in  immigrant  barracks 
on  that  frozen,  wind-swept  rock,  Gros  Island — such  was  the  situation. 
A  case  of  smallpox  on  board  was  the  cause,  and  fourteen  days  was 
the  regular  period  of  detention  in  such  cases.  But  this  was  shortened 
for  us  to  eight  days,  through  the  interest  taken  by  leading  brethren  in 
Utah,  and  the  influence  exerted  by  Senator  Smoot  with  the  Canadian 
authorities.  We  were  all  vaccinated,  and  as  fast  as  the  vaccinations 
"took,"  were  allowed  to  proceed  on  our  way.  A  few  other  Elders  and 
Saints,  with  us  on  the  island,  were  released  at  about  the  same  time. 
Every  courtesy  was  extended  by  Government  and  railroad  officials, 
both  in  Canada  and  the  United  States,  and  although  the  journey  was 
a  very  trying  one,  we  reached  home  in  safety,  December  7,  1922. 

GRADUAL  CONVALESCENCE 

Since  then  I  have  been  slowly  convalescing  back  to  health.  I 
was  told  by  a  medical  doctor  soon  after  my  return,  that  it  would  be 
eighteen  months  before  I  would  "feel  fit."  The  eighteen  months  are 
up  this  spring,  and  my  condition  is  now  almost  normal.  During  the 
winter  I  have  read  a  great  deal,  have  done  some  writing,  and  in  the 
past  few  weeks  have  spoken  fourteen  times  in  public.  A  year  ago  or 
more,  I  could  neither  read  nor  write,  nor  even  think  clearly.  There 
was  a  weight  upon  my  brain  like  an  iron  clamp,  while  in  walking  I 
felt  as  if  I  were  lifting  great  chunks  of  lead.  As  for  public  speaking, 
that  was  entirely  out  of  the  question.  Since  walking  has  always  been 
my  favorite  exercise,  and  reading,  writing  and  speaking  the  occupa- 
tions in  which  I  have  taken  most  delight,  you  can  judge  of  the  amount 
of  privation  that  my  long  sickness  entailed.  I  can  never  be  grateful 
enough  to  President  Grant  and  other  kind  friends  who  have  ministered 
to  my  needs  in  various  ways  during  the  saddest  and  loneliest  period 
of  my  life.  I  am  thankful  for  the  many  prayers  offered  up  in  my 
behalf — prayers  that  have  been  answered  in  a  manner  truly  wonder- 
ful. I  can  only  say:  "It  is  the  Lord's  doing,  and  it  is  marvelous  in 
my  eyes." 

THE  SPEAKER'S  TESTIMONY 

Brethren  and  sisters:  I  testify  in  all  solemnity  that  I  know  this 
to  be  the  work  of  the  Lord.    I  never  knew  it  so  well  as  I  do  now. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  have  been  just  near  enough  to  "the  other  side"  to  sense  it  most 
thoroughly,  and  my  one  desire  is  to  live  to  bear  testimony  of  the  Truth. 
I  do  not  testify  that  the  Gospel  is  true ;  that  would  be  superfluous — a 
mere  truism.  One  might  as  well  say  that  truth  is  true,  or  that  white 
is  white,  as  to  say  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  Of  course  it's  true,  or  it 
wouldn't  be  the  Gospel,  which  is  Truth  itself.  But  I  do  testify  that 
what  is  called  "Mormonism"  is  the  Gospel — the  Everlasting  Gospel ; 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  one  and  only  Savior,  and  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  his  prophet,  standing  at  the  head  of  the  last  and  greatest 
of  the  gospel  dispensations,  the  mission  of  which  is  to  gather  together 
all  things  in  Christ  and  prepare  the  way  before  His  glorious  second 
coming.  I  know  that  this  work  will  go  on  conquering  and  to  conquer — 
not  with  worldly  but  with  spiritual  weapons ;  that  nothing  can  stand 
against  it  to  impede  its  progress ;  and  that  it  never  will  be  smaller 
or  weaker  than  it  is  today.  Like  the  little  snowball  from  the  mountain- 
top,  gathering  as  it  goes,  it  will  yet  become  a  mighty  avalanche,  sweep- 
ing all  evil  before  it,  and  fulfilling  what  the  Prophet  Daniel  spoke 
concerning  it.  For  it  is  "the  stone  cut  out  without  hands"  which  is 
destined  to  grow  into  "a  great  mountain"  and  "fill  the  whole  earth." 
God  speed  it  on  its  way!  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that  the  people  here  assembled, 
and  throughout  the  stakes  of  Zion,  are  rejoicing  in  the  remarkable  re- 
covery that  has  come  to  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney.  The  hand  of  the 
Lord  has  been  made  manifest  in  his  restoration  to  health. 

This  afternoon  I  need  your  faith  and  prayers  to  assist  me  in  the 
remarks  that  I  shall  make. 

WE  STAND  AS  WITNESSES  FOR  CHRIST 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times,  in  a  day  when  the  mission  of  the 
Church  is  perhaps  more  pronounced,  and  our  message  to  the  world 
more  clearly  defined,  than  ever  before.  As  a  people  we  stand  as  wit- 
nesses for  Christ  in  a  day  when  the  world  has  turned  from  him,  when 
they  are  teaching  the  doctrines  of  men  and  discarding  the  fundamental 
truths  of  the  Christian  faith. 

I  have  been  reflecting,  as  I  have  listened  to  the  remarks  that  were 
made  this  morning  and  this  afternoon,  and  desire  to  present  some  of 
my  thoughts,  and  some  thoughts  of  others  uttered  by  prophecy  in  an- 
cient times,  which  are  very  important  to  us  and  which  concern  very 
seriously  the  world  and  the  conditions  therein.  My  thoughts  dwelt 
upon  this  passage  of  scripture  which  was  uttered  by  Nephi  almost 
six  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ,  wherein  he  was  speaking 
of  the  latter  days: 

TESTIMONY  OF  AN  ANCIENT  PROPHET 

"O  that  cunning  plan  of  the  evil  one !  O  the  vainness,  and  the  frailties,  and 
the  foolishness  of  men!    When  they  are  learned  they  think  they  are  wise,  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


41 


they  hearken  not  unto  the  counsel  of  God,  for  they  set  it  aside,  supposing  they 
know  of  themselves,  wherefore,  their  wisdom  is  foolishness  and  it  profiteth 
them  not.    And  they  shall  perish. 

"But  to  be  learned  is  good  if  they  hearken  unto  the  counsels  of  God. 

"But  wo  unto  the  rich,  who  are  rich  as  to  the  things  of  the  world.  For 
because  they  are  rich  they  despise  the  poor,  and  they  persecute  the  meek,  and 
their  hearts  are  upon  their  treasures;  wherefore,  their  treasure  is  their  god. 
And  behold,  their  treasure  shall  perish  with  them  also. 

"And  wo  unto  the  deaf  that  will  not  hear ;  for  they  shall  perish. 

"Wo  unto  the  blind  that  will  not  sec;  for  they  shall  perish  also." 

And  then  again  in  one  of  his  discourses  in  which  he  spoke  by 
prophecy,  he  also  referred  to  our  day  and  the  conditions  that  would 
prevail  in  the  world  preceding  the  corning  of  Christ. 

"For  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  that  day  that  the  churches  which  are  built  up, 
and  not  unto  the  Lord,  when  the  one  shall  say  unto  the  other :  Behold,  I,  I  am 
the  Lord's ;  and  the  others  shall  say :  I,  I  am  the  Lord's ;  and  thus  shall  every 
one  say  that  hath  built  up  churches,  and  not  unto  the  Lord — ■ 

"And  they  shall  contend  one  with  another ;  and  their  priests  shall  contend 
one  with  another,  and  they  shall  teach  with  their  learning,  and  deny  the  Holy 
Ghost,  which  giveth  utterance. 

"And  they  deny  the  power  of  God,  the  Holy  One  of  Israel;  and  they  say 
unto  the  people :  Hearken  unto  us,  and  hear  ye  our  precept ;  for  behold  there 
is  no  God  today,  for  the  Lord  and  the  Redeemer  hath  done  his  work,  and  he 
hath  given  his  power  unto  men." 

VIEWS  OF  THE  SO-CALLED  MODERNISTS 

President  Clawson  this  afternoon  read  to  us  some  views  that  are 
expressed  today  by  certain  ministers,  religionists  who  call  themselves 
modernists,  and  they  appear  to  be  in  the  ascendency ;  their  doctrines 
are  growing,  and  are  finding  place  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and 
the  true  doctrines  of  Christ,  and  the  testimony  that  Jesns  is  the  Son 
of  God,  is  diminishing,  is  dying  out  in  the  world.  Tt  may  be  true,  as 
one  divine  stated,  that  the  Christian  Era  is  at  an  end,  and  the  Church 
is  in  the  course  of  dissolution,  if  he  had  reference  to  the  so-called 
Christian  churches  of  the  day;  because  their  doctrine  is  spurious,  it  is 
not  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  a  man-made  system.  But  Christ- 
ianity, pure  and  undefiled,  is  not  in  the  course  of  dissolution ;  it  is  not 
dying  out,  it  is  becoming  more  firmly  rooted  in  the  earth,  and  must  do 
so,  and  shall  continue  until  it  shall  fill  the  earth,  for  so  it  has  been 
predicted. 

TRUE  CHRISTIANITY 

However,  true  Christianity,  so  far  as  the  latter  days  are  con- 
cerned, is  very  young,  less  than  one  hundred  years  of  age,  for  it  has 
only  been  since  the  year  1830  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
organized  in  the  earth,  and  the  gospel  restored,  containing  the  gifts 
and  the  blessings  and  the  graces  that  existed  in  the  Church  in  primi- 
tive days,  and  that  Church  with  its  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Christ, 
shall  grow. 

We  are  the  people  who  have  made  covenant  with  the  Lord  to 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  we  have  received  through 
the  testimony  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  the  knowledge  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  that  he  is  indeed  the  Only  Begotten 
Son  of  the  Father,  and  that  through  his  Mood,  which  was  shed,  all  men 
are  redeemed  from  death,  all  men  shall  come  forth  in  the  resurrection 
from  the  dead  and  live  again.  In  other  words,  immortality  shall  come 
to  every  soul,  for,  as  Paul  has  stated  it,  "As  in  Adam  all  die,  so  in 
Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive."  "And,"  said  he,  "the  last  enemy  that 
shall  be  destroyed  is  death,"  and  so  long  as  there  is  still  in  the  grave 
one  soul  who  has  tabernacled  in  the  flesh,  death  has  not  been  con- 
quered. Death  shall  be  conquered,  Christ  shall  gain  the  victory,  and 
immortality  shall  come  to  every  soul  that  has  lived  upon  the  earth. 
And  the  reason  for  this  is  that  we  were  not  responsible  for  death ;  we 
did  not  bring  death  into  the  world,  and  so  we  are  redeemed  through 
the  blood  of  Christ,  from  that  condition,  and  immortality  shall  come 
to  us,  both  the  unrighteous  as  well  as  the  righteous,  and  all  men 
shall  stand  again  in  the  flesh  to  be  judged  according  to  their  works. 
But  in  addition  to  all  this,  through  the  blood  of  Christ,  men  are  also 
redeemed  from  their  own  sins ;  but  on  condition  of  their  repentance 
and  their  acceptance  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  They  must  be- 
lieve in  him,  they  must  accept  him  as  the  Son  of  God,  they  must  set 
themselves  in  harmony  with  the  truth  which  we  call  the  gospel.  They 
must  accept  these  principles  and  walk  in  accordance  with  them  in 
order  that  they  may  be  redeemed  from  their  own  sins,  and  thus  be 
prepared  to  receive  something  greater  than  immortality,  even  eternal 
life.  Eternal  life  is  that  kind  of  life  which  our  Father  in  heaven 
possesses.  For  he  who  has  eternal  life  must  have  the  kind  of  life  that 
God  has,  for  he  is  eternal.  And  so  those  who  will  repent,  who  will 
receive  the  gospel,  walking  righteously  before  the  Father,  shall  receive 
this  great  reward,  and  shall  have  the  privilege  of  entering  into  his  pres- 
ence and  dwelling  with  him  and  with  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  where  they 
shall  receive  a  fulness,  if  they  are  faithful  and  true  in  all  things,  even 
unto  the  end. 

OUR  MESSAGE  TO  THE  WORLD 

Now.  I  say  we  are  witnesses  of  the  truth.  It  is  the  mission  of 
every  man  holding  the  priesthood  in  this  Church  to  preach  Christ  and 
him  crucified.  That  is  our  message  to  the  world ;  and  the  message  is 
sorely  needed  in  the  face  of  these  false  doctrines  taught  by  the  power 
of  men.  When  men  are  turning  from  the  Lord  and  seeking  to  find 
everlasting  truth  without  his  aid,  our  mission  'becomes  all  the  more 
urgent  in  calling  men  to  repentance  and  to  a  belief  in  the  redemption 
brought  to  pass  through  the  atonement  of  the  Son  of  God,  whose  blood 
was  shed  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

WE  BELIEVE  IN  A  LITERAL  RESURRECTION 

We  believe  in  the  literal  resurrection  of  the  children  of  men. 
President  Rudger  Clawson  read  to  us  the  statement  that  was  made  by 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  43 


Matthew,  an  eye  witness  of  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  and  many  of 
the  Saints  who  lived  lief  ore  that  day,  who  came  forth  from  the  dead 
after  the  resurrection  of  the  Son  of  God.  Matthew  stated  that  "the 
graves  were  opened ;  and  many  bodies  of  the  Saints  which  slept,  arose, 
and  came  out  of  the  graves,  after  his  resurrection,  and  went  into  the 
holy  city,  and  appeared  unto  many."  This  was  as  literal  as  Ezekiel 
said  it  would  be.  so  far  as  the  resurrection  of  the  bodies  from  the 
graves  was  concerned,  there  can  be  no  mistake  about  that.  Christ  was 
the  first  fruits,  and  afterwards  those  who  believed  on  him,  and  event- 
ually all  men  shall  come  forth. 

It  is  our  message  and  our  mission  to  the  world,  to  preach  this 
truth,  and  to  establish  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and  endeavor  to 
get  them  to  believe  in  Jesus  Christ  as  their  Redeemer  and  as  the  Son 
of  God. 

I  would  like  to  refer  to  one  or  two  other  passages  of  Scripture 
bearing  upon  this  point  of  the  resurrection.  Ezekiel,  one  of  the  proph- 
ets of  old,  was  commanded  by  the  Lord  in  a  vision  to  prophesy.  In  the 
vision  he  was  taken  out  into  a  valley  of  dry  bones,  and  they  were  very 
dry,  and  the  Lord  asked  him  the  question:  "Son  of  man,  can  these 
bones  live?"  And  Ezekiel  answered,  "Thou  knowest."  So  the  Lord 
said  to  him : 

"Prophesy  upon  these  bones,  and  say  unto  them,  O  ye  dry  bones,  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord. 

"Thus  saith  the  Lord  God  unto  these  bones ;  Behold,  I  will  cause  breath 
to  enter  into  you,  and  ye  shall  live : 

"And  I  will  lay  sinews  upon  you,  and  will  bring  up  flesh  upon  you,  and 
cover  you  with  skin,  and  put  breath  in  you,  and  ye  shall  live;  and  ye  shall  know 
that  I  am  the  Lord. 

"So  I  prophesied  as  T  was  commanded :  and  as  I  prophesied,  there  was 
a  noise,  and  beheld  a  shaking,  and  the  bones  came  together,  bone  to  his  bone, 

"And  when  T  beheld,  lo,  the  sinews  and  the  flesh  came  up  upon  them,  ana 
the  skin  covered  them  above;  but  there  was  no  breath  in  them. 

"Then  said  he  unto  mc,  Prophesy  unto  the  wind,  prophesy,  son  of  man. 
and  say  to  the  wind,  Thus  saith  the  Lord  Clod;  Come  from  the  four  winds,  O 
breath,  and  breathe  upon  these  slain,  that  they  may  live." 

Now  the  world  would  tell  you  that  this  did  not  mean  those  who 
were  dead  literally,  but  those  who  were  dead  in  sins,  who,  because  of 
transgression,  had  been  cut  off  from  the  Lord:  but  the  Lord  is  very 
specific  for  we  read  further : 

"So  I  prophesied  as  he  commanded  me,  and  the  breath  came  into  them, 
and  they  lived,  and  stood  up  upon  their  feet,  an  exceeding  great  army. 

"Then  he  said  unto  mc,  Son  of  man,  these  bones  are  the  whole  house  of 
Israel :  behold,  they  say,  Our  bones  are  dried,  and  our  hope  is  lost :  we  are  cut 
off  from  our  parts. 

"Therefore  prophesy  and  say  unto  them,  Thus  saith  the  Lord  God;  Beheld, 
O  my  people,  I  will  open  your  graves,  and  cause  you  to  come  up  out  of  your 
graves,  and  bring  you  into  the  land  of  Israel. 

"And  ye  shall  knew  that  I  am  the  Lord,  when  I  have  opened  your  graves, 
O  my  people,  and  brought  you  up  out  of  your  graves." 

So  the  Lord  was  very  definite  in  regard  to  this  matter.  There 
is  no  mistake  about  the  definiteness  of  the  language  at  all. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Isaiah,  speaking  of  the  resurrection,  had  this  to  say,  in  reference 
to  Israel  especially : 

"Thy  dead  men  shall  live,  together  with  my  dead  body  shall  they  arise. 
Awake  .and  sing,  ye  that  dwell  in  dust;  for  thy  dew  is  as  the  dew  of  herbs,  and 
the  earth  shall  cast  out  the  dead." 

Hosea  has  also  testified  as  follows: 

"I  will  ransom  them  from  the  power  of  the  grave;  I  will  redeem  them 
from  death:  O  death,  I  will  be  thy  plague;  O  grave,  I  will  be  thy  destruction: 
repentance  shall  be  hid  from  mine  eyes." 

MODERN  TESTIMONY  OF  THE  RESURRECTION 

A  nd  so  have  prophesied  others  of  the  ancient  prophets ;  and  so 
have  testified  the  witnesses  of  the  New  Testament;  hut  in  addition  to 
all  these  we  have  the  witnesses  who  have  lived  in  our  own  day.  We 
are  not  in  doubt,  the  Lord  has  not  left  us  helpless  to  grope  without 
the  light.  We  have  had  in  our  midst,  those  who  have  beheld  heavenly 
beings,  messengers  who  have  been  sent  to  reveal  the  truth,  who  have 
passed  through  the  resurrection;  who  have  come  forth  from  the  dead, 
and  are  alive  again.  Joseph  Smith,  Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer, 
Martin  Harris,  and  others,  have  testified  to  the  world  that  they  have 
been  in  the  presence  of  beings  who  have  come  forth  from  the  dead, 
through  the  resurrection.  These  personages  lived  anciently,  and  came 
to  the  earth  again  to  establish  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  And 
the  witnesses  unto  whom  they  came  have  testified  to  all  the  world  that 
these  things  are  true — that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  and  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection.  This  testimony 
is  binding  on  all  the  world,  for  these  men  are  reliable  witnesses.  Men 
may  say  they  do  not  believe  it ;  they  may  say  there  is  no  truth  in  it,  but 
the  fact  remains  that  in  bearing  witness  of  these  truths,  the  witnesses 
have  complied  with  the  law,  and  their  testimony  is  now  binding  on  all 
men.  In  the  mouths  of  as  many  witnesses  as  seemeth  good,  God  has 
established  the  truth  of  all  things,  and  all  who  reject  the  testimony  of 
these  witnesses  do  so  at  the  peril  of  losing  their  own  salvation,  for  God 
will  not  be  mocked. 

I  testify  that  I  know  these  things  are  true,  and  you  who  are 
assembled  here  know  they  are  true.  That  is  our  mission  and  testimony, 
I  repeat,  unto  all  the  world,  to  bear  witness  and  cry  repentance,  that 
men  may  be  brought  to  repentance  and  receive  a  remission  of  their  sins 
through  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel.  May  the  truth  spread 
and  righteousness  prevail,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen.  „,        :  |;        |  j  ,  j 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "The  time  is  far  spent,  there 
is  little  remaining." 

Elder  Joseph  B.  White,  President  of  the  Hyrum  stake  of  Zion, 
offered  the  closing  prayer,  and  the  conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock 
Saturday  morning. 


SECOND  DAY 

MORNING  SESSION 

Promptly  at  10  o'clock,  Saturday,  April  5,  1924,  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "O 
say  what  is  truth?"  as  the  opening  hymn. 

After  the  singing  of  the  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Thomas  D.  Rees,  President  of  the  Juab  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

All  the  seats  were  occupied  and  many  people  were  standing  in  the 
aisles,  both  in  the  gallery  and  on  the  main  floor. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  there  are  absent  fron^ 
our  conference  Elders  Reed  Smoot,  David  O.  McKay,  John  A.  Widtsoe, 
and  George  Albert  Smith,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  As  you 
all  know,  Brother  Smoot' s  duties  prevent  his  attendance.  We  had 
hoped  Brother  Widtsoe  might  be  here,  but  the  Commission  of  which 
he  is  a  member  demands  his  attention,  and  he  has  written  his  sincere 
regrets  for  not  being  present  at  the  conference.  We  have  a  cablegram 
from  Pres.  David  O.  McKay,  that  "the  conference  presidents  of  the 
mission  in  special  assembly  send  greetings  to  the  First  Presidency  and 
other  authorities  and  the  Church  at  home.  God  bless  you."  Brother 
George  Albert  Smith  is  absent  on  account  of  sickness.  We  hope  he 
will  be  with  us  before  the  conference  is  concluded. 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church) 

Yesterday  morning,  as  we  were  coming  to  conference  and  as  the 
clouds  betokened  that  we  might  have  a  storm,  we  heard  on  every  hand 
the  old  saying,  "Yes,  its  going  to  storm — the  regular  conference 
storm."  Well,  it  did  not  storm,  and  to-day  we  have  the  most  beauti- 
ful weather  that  could  be  found  anywhere  in  the  world.  I  do  not 
know  where  you  would  go  to  equal  it.  So  I  feel  happy  this  morning 
for  the  good  weather  with  which  we  are  blessed  for  our  conference. 

I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  being  permitted  to  labor  with  my 
brethren  in  connection  with  this  great  work,  in  which  labor  I  have 
been  engaged  for  many  years,  I  rejoice  in  its  growth  and  in  its 
development,  and  I  am  glad  to  add  my  evidence  or  testimony  to  that 
of  President  Grant  that  I  believe  the  Church,  spiritually  and  temporally, 
is  in  a  stronger,  a  better  and  more  advanced  condition  to-day  than  it 
ever  has  been  in  its  history.  We  are  more  numerous  to-day  than  we 
ever  have  been  and  therefore  we  ought  to  be  stronger,  and  are. 

I  can  speak,  I  believe,  for  the  work  that  is  under  the  care  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church,  the  work  of  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood. I  think  I  can  safely  say  that  never  in  the  history  of  the  Church 
has  that  work  been  in  such  good  shape,  nor  has  it  been  better  looked 
after,  nor  indeed  as  well  looked  after  by  the  bishops  and  those  in 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


charge  of  the  responsibility  of  looking  after  the  lesser  priesthood,  as 
it  is  to-day.  So  that  also  shows  growth  and  development.  Not- 
withstanding all  that,  we  are  far  from  doing  and  far  from  being  what 
we  should  do  and  what  we  should  be,  but  we  are  making  progress, 
thank  the  Lord. 

This  Church  stands  for  all  that  is  best  in  the  world.  If  there  is 
anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek 
after  these  things ;  that  which  is  best,  that  which  makes  for  the  suc- 
cess and  prosperity  and  blessing  of  the  people,  that  which  extends 
and  magnifies  and  upholds  the  principles  of  liberty.  This  Church 
has  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  according  to  St.  Paul  that  system, 
that  gospel  is  the  perfect  law  of  liberty,  more  perfect  than  anything 
else  that  has  ever  been  devised,  and  I  am  thankful  for  that.  I  am 
grateful  for  this  nation,  for  the  privilege  of  living  in  this  great  nation, 
and  that  we  are  a  part  of  it  where  there  is  more  liberty  for,  and 
a  better  understanding  of,  human  rights,  and  more  of  the  respectful 
deference  and  tolerance  for  the  views  of  others,  religious  Views, 
views  of  different  questions,  more  of  tolerance  I  say,  in  this  nation 
than  in  any  other  nation  under  the  sun. 

If  you  do  not  believe  that,  go  and  live  awhile  in  the  South 
American  countries,  or  go  down  to  Mexico,  our  neighbor  on  the  south, 
or  anywhere  in  Europe,  Asia  or  Africa,  anywhere  outside  of  this  nation, 
if  you  think  you  would  be  more  contented  than  here,  and  you  will 
come  back  and  say,  "This  good  old  U.  S.  A.,  the  United  States  of 
America,  is  the  very  best  country,  the  very  best  nation,  the  very  best 
people  in  all  the  world,"  and  I  am  thankful  that  I  am  a  partaker 
of  it. 

This  Church  in  its  beneficence,  in  its  helpfulness,  goes  far  in  its 
missionary  activities,  and  the  sacrifices  that  are  made  in  that  connection 
stamp  the  people  with  having  done  and  trying  to  do  better,  and  more 
in  helping  others  and  extending  these  principles,  these  blessings  of 
liberty,  than  any  other  people  in  all  the  world.  The  missionary- 
activities  are  not  only  to  our  own  race,  the  white  race,  but  we  have 
gone  to  the  islands  of  the  sea.  This  Church  established,  many  years 
ago,  on  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  schools,  educational  helps,  teaching  the 
people  also  how  to  work,  how  to  live,  how  to  establish  themselves  and 
be  independent,  and  to  practice  the  principles  of  righteousness  and 
liberty  and  thrift  which  the  gospel  inculcates.  The  Church  has  sent 
tens  of  thousands  of  dollars  there,  helping  those  poor  people,  during 
the  many  years  that  have  passed ;  has  done  it  recently  and  is  doing- 
it  now,  during  this  adminstration  of  President  Grant. 

Then  again,  down  in  New  Zealand,  the  Church  has  established 
there  an  agricultural  college  to  help  the  Maori  people.  Of  the  tithes, 
the  means  that  you  have  contributed,  money  has  been  sent  down  there 
to  help  those  people,  to  educate  them,  to  teach  them  the  way  of  life 
and  to  help  them  in  many  ways,  which  have  been  a  blessing  to  them. 
So  also  in  Samoa.  So  with  the  Indians,  up  here  in  Washakie.  The 
Church  has  spent  a  considerable  amount  of  money  to  help  the  Indians 
there,  to  teach  them  and  to  be  a  blessing  to  them — a  few  of  the 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY 


47 


Papago  Indians  down  in  Arizona  also ;  a  few  down  here  at  Cedar 
City  and  a  few  elsewhere  who  live  around  us.  The  Church  has  always 
been  and  is  now  helping  in  all  these  different  directions,  and  it  is  a 
good  work,  a  commendable  work.  I  wanted  to  make  a  note  of  these 
items  so  that  you  may  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  how  the  means 
that  you  contribute  to  the  Church  are  used.  You  have  heard  from 
the  President  how  practically  all  the  means  contributed  have  been  sent 
back  to  the  people  for  schools,  educational  purposes,  for  the  building 
of  churches,  for  the  operation  and  maintenance  of  church  activities. 
Practically  all  of  the  tithes  have  been  sent  back  to  ihe  people  in  the 
wards,  in  the  stakes,  for  temples,  for  hospitals  and  in  all  these  activities 
which  are  good,  which  are  commendable  and  which  are  a  blessing  to 
the  people.  We  should  try  to  do  a  little  more  than  we  are  doing,  if 
we  have,  and  we  do  have,  the  best  principles  to  govern  us,  laid  down 
by  the  Lord  Almighty ;  we  have  a  knowledge  that  he  established  his 
work  and  that  he  raised  up  wise  men,  as  he  says  in  one  of  the  re- 
velations, for  the  very  purpose  of  establishing  the  Constitution  of  this 
land,  this  law  of  liberty  and  tolerance  that  we  are  enjoying  and  being 
blessed  with.  Having  that,  then,  there  should  be  further  evidence  to 
show  that  we  have  the  gospel.  I  ought  to  be  a  better  citizen  in  con- 
sequence of  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ,  this  perfect  law  of  liberty, 
than  I  could  be  without  this  gospel.  It  certainly  does  not  make  me 
a  worse  citizen,  more  narrow  or  bigoted ;  but  it  enlarges  my  soul ; 
it  makes  me  tolerant ;  it  makes  me  helpful ;  it  makes  me  kind  to  my 
neighbor;  it  enjoins  upon  me  all  the  duties  of  helpfulness  and  right- 
eousness that  pertain  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  so  that  I  should 
be  better  as  a  citizen,  in  a  civil  sense.  My  home  should  look  as  nice 
as  the  home  of  anybody  else,  and  as  good  as  my  circumstances  will 
permit.  My  fence  should  be  kept  up  nicely ;  my  surroundings  should 
be  clean ;  my  home  should  be  clean.  Cleanliness  is  next  to  godliness. 
In  fact,  I  think  you  will  never  get  any  great  amount  of  godliness 
till  you  first  get  cleanliness.  So  our  places,  our  homes,  our  gardens, 
all  that  we  have,  should  be  just  a  little  better  in  consequence  of  the 
gospel.  Our  taxes  should  be  spent  more  carefully  than  any  other 
people  spend  taxes.  We  should  be  able  to  invite  people  to  settle 
among  us  in  consequence  of  low  taxes  and  good  orderly  government, 
in  comparison  with  others.  So  I  say  improve  your  homes,  brethren 
and  sisters,  improve  your  fields,  improve  your  stock.  Clean  up, 
plant  trees,  beautify  Zion,  make  the  desert  as  a  garden,  and  the  wilder- 
ness to  blossom  as  the  rose.  In  the  old  scriptures  the  Lord  said  he 
"will  make  the  wilderness  like  Eden,  and  the  desert  like  the  garden 
of  the  Lord.  Joy  and  gladness  shall  be  found  therein,  thanksgiving 
and  the  voice  of  melody."  The  voice  of  song  and  melody  should 
be  extended  also,  and  all  that  is  good  and  all  that  is  great,  all  that 
pleases  mankind  we  should  try  to  do,  and  the  knowledge  of  God 
will  be  extended.  We  have  heard  repeatedly,  and  we  will  always  hear 
it,  for  '-it  is  the  mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  to  make  known  the  story  of  Jesus  and  him  crucified.  Just 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


what  he  is,  just  what  he  stood  for — that  will  always  be  the  great 
endeavor  and  the  great  part  of  the  mission  of  this  Church ;  after  we 
are  all  gone,  it  will  still  be  going  on. 

But  in  all  of  the  little  things  of  life  we  should  be  just  a  little 
better,  a  little  more  kind  as  husband  and  father,  a  little  more  courteous, 
a  little  more  polite.  Do  we  exemplify  that  in  our  lives,  in  our  families? 
Are  husbands — these  husbands  that  I  see  by  the  thousands  before 
me — are  we  just  as  good  to  our  wives  as  we  could  be  and  should  be? 
You  know  if  you  are  invited  out  to  a  dinner  party,  it  is  quite  custo- 
mary, quite  the  proper  thing,  and  a  very  genteel  thing  too,  to  say: 
"We  have  had  an  excellent  dinner.  It  was  very  fine.  I  have  en- 
joyed it  immensely."  Did  you  ever  say  that  to  your  wife — do  you, 
husbands?  She  has  cooked  for  you  many  a  good  dinner.  Did  you 
ever  say:  "Wife,  that  is  a  fine  dinner.  That  is  just  as  good  as 
anybody  can  cook."  No;  if  she  said:  "Well,  John,  husband — 
how  did  you  like  your  dinner?"  "Why,  it  was  all  right,  wasn't 
it?  I  didn't  see  anything  wrong  with  it."  It  would  be  so  unusual 
to  get  a  word  of  courtesy  and  compliment  from  the  husband  to 
the  wife.    I  recall  a  line  or  two  of  Burns  on  this  subject: 

"Ah!  gentle  dames,  it  gars  me  greet,  [it  makes  me  cry] 
To  think  how  monie  counsels  sweet, 
How  monie  lengthen'd,  sage  advices 
The  husband  frae  the  wife  despises!" 

And  it  is  often  so.  Of  course,  the  counsel,  good  as  it  is,  can  be 
too  lengthened.  You  sisters  ought  to  remember  that,  too,  not  to  make 
your  advice  and  counsel  so  everlastingly  long.  Be  tolerant  and  im- 
prove in  that.  "How  many  lengthened,  sage  advices  the  husband 
from  the  wife  despises."  Well  now,  we  can  be  courteous  with 
our  children,  and  kind ;  we  can  teach  them  politeness — these  little 
civilities,  these  little  things  after  all  distinguish  between  the  savage 
and  the  civilized.  That  is  all  they  are,  decent  civilities,  politeness, 
courtesy,  a  little  attention.  How  many  husbands  help  their  wives 
as  they  should  ? 

I  stood  at  my  window,  only  the  other  day,  and  watched  a  couple 
going  down  the  street — a  big,  strong  young  fellow  and  his  wife,  a  beauti- 
ful woman,  tagging  behind  him.  I  thought,  "They  are  married,  all  right." 
If  he  had  not  been,  why  he  would  have  had  hold  of  her  arm.  showing 
her  a  little  attention  and  courtesy,  and  T  felt  like  I  would  like  to 
go  out  there  and  kick  that  fellow.  She  was  good  looking,  too.  That 
made  me  dislike  him  more.  But  after  all.  brethren  and  sisters,  these 
kindnesses,  these  attentions  are  what  make  people  better.  Why,  that 
man  and  woman  put  me  in  mind  of  the  Tndian  with  his  squaw,  she 
walking  behind,  tagging  behind.  She  was  not  carrying  any  load. 
If  they  had  had  a  babv,  she  would  probably  have  been  carrying  the 
baby  in  her  arms  and  he  would  have  carried  the  door  key.  That  is 
the  kind  of  courtesy  that  was  shown. 

Now,  plant  trees,  take  care  of  your  farms,  save  your  means. 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


49 


We  are  living  in  an  extravagant  age.  Don't  you  know  that  there 
are  very  few  people  nowadays  who  know  how  to  save  a  dollar.  We 
know  how  to  spend  it  galore;  but  to  save  it,  to  practice  self-denial 
and  say,  "No,  I  can  get  along  without  that,"  we  cannot  do  it,  seem- 
ingly, any  more.  We  just  have  to  spend  and  spend.  Now  let  me 
put  this  into  your  mind,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  can  always  spend 
your  money  tomorrow;  don't  forget  that.  It  will  be  good  tomorrow. 
Keep  it  in  your  pocket  today  and  then  wait  until  tomorrow  again. 
You  can  always  spend  your  money  tomorrow ;  practice  many  other 
good  qualities  which  make  for  independence  and  well-being  and  which 
will  deliver  us  from  so  much  trouble ;  that  which  helps  to  keep  us 
out  of  debt.  Get  out  of  debt  and  keep  out  of  debt.  Cultivate  your 
farms ;  stay  with  your  farms ;  make  one  acre  produce  what  two  are 
now  producing — it  can  be  done  as  a  general  rule.  Why  not  do  it ; 
why  not  show  to  all  the  world  that  by  our  very  surroundings,  here 
are  "Mormon"  settlements,  the  best  in  the  land.  I  remember  the 
first  time  I  went  up  into  Canada.  We  rode  through  those  endless 
miles  of  plains  and  not  a  tree,  Presently  we  came  in  sight  of  some 
trees  growing  away  up  in  the  country  there,  and  I  said:  There  is 
civilization;  there  is  a  "Mormon"  settlement,  because  it  was  different. 
There  were  settlements  straggling  here  and  there  all  along,  but  no 
trees.  But  when  we  came  to  the  "Mormon"  settlement  there  were 
trees,  there  were  evidences  of  something  more,  something  better  than 
other  people  had. 

So  in  all  of  our  surroundings  and  all  that  we  have  to  do  and  to 
do  with,  we  ought  to  practice  those  principles  which  the  gospel 
teaches.  And  as  President  Grant  emphasized  yesterday,  walk  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments.  That  is  repeated  all  the  way  through, 
in  almost  every  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  In 
the  revelation  on  the  Word  of  Wisdom  we  are  commanded  to  abstain 
from  this  and  abstain  from  the  other ;  if  you  do  all  these  things 
and  walk  in  obedience  to  the  commandments  as  well,  blessings  are 
promised.  Now  walking  in  obedience  to  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord,  we  ought  to  do  all  these  little  things,  for  they  are  command- 
ments. I  am  commanded  by  those  who  have  presided  over  me  to 
get  out  of  debt,  to  pay  up  my  debts  when  I  can,  and  as  soon  as 
I  can ;  to  keep  out  of  debt,  to  practice  every  virtue — be  honest,  be 
true,  be  faithful,  be  courteous,  be  tolerant,  be  all  that  makes  for  the 
best  citizenship  in  all  the  world.  That  is  what  should  distinguish 
us  from  the  world.  The  Savior  said  in  his  time:  If  you  give  merely 
to  your  sisters  and  your  cousins  and  your  aunts,  (he  did  not  use  that 
phrase  but  that  is  undoubtedly  what  it  amounted  to)  do  not  even 
the  Publicans  so?    What  better  are  you  than  they? 

We  ought  to  be  better,  having  the  best  government  that  there 
is,  I  mean  Church  government,  which  supplements,  adds  to  and  en- 
hances and  glorifies  the  civil  government,  good  as  it  is, .  the  Church 
government  is  still  better.    For  as  St.  Paul  said,  "It  is  the  perfect 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


law  of  liberty."  Having  that,  ought  we  not  to  show  it  in  all  our 
surroundings,  in  all  our  walks  of  life,  in  everything  pertaining  to  us 
in  our  civil  government  with  which  we  have  to  do — in  treatment  of 
our  brethren  and  sisters,  settling  our  difficulties  one  with  another, 
in  all  things  that  make  us  better  and  more  civilized,  more  polite, 
more  generous,  more  big-hearted,  more  unselfish  in  all  things ;  to 
build  up  the  kingdom,  to  glorify  our  God  and  make  us  different, 
a  little  different  from  most  other  people.  If  the  gospel  does  not 
do  that,  then  it  has  failed  with  us.  I  .say  that  it  does  accomplish 
these  things.  If  you  do  not  think  there  is  a  difference  between 
the  people  here  of  this  section  and  other  peoples  abroad,  you  just 
go  and  live  abroad  six  months,  anywhere  outside  of  the  confines  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints:  you  will  find  a 
difference.  There  is  a  power  of  godliness  here  that  cannot  be  found 
anywhere  else  in  the  world,  and  I  testify  to  it.  The  revelation  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  T  think  it  is  in  the  84th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  says  this,  that  with  this  Priesthood  which  he  has  given 
to  this  Church,  the  power  of  Godliness  is  manifest,  and  further,  with- 
out this  Priesthood  and  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  the  power  of 
godliness  is  not  manifest  to  men  in  the  flesh,  anywhere,  at  any 
time.  Now  having  that  influence  and  power,  we  know,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  it  will  make  us  better  and  that  we  are  a  little  dif- 
ferent in  so  many  ways.  It  was  pointed  out  to  us  yesterday  that 
there  is  a  brotherhood  and  a  fellowship  and  an  interest,  an  un- 
selfish interest  in  people,  more  than  most  peoples  have. 

I  see  that  my  time  has  expired.  The  Lord  bless  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  bless  this  work.  I  testify  to  you,  once  again,  that 
it  is  God's  work.  I  believe  most  thoroughly,  completely,  and  potently 
in  the  fact  that  the  Lord  Most  High  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  did 
appear  and  teach  and  instruct  Joseph  Smith  the  boy  prophet.  I 
believe  it  as  powerfully  as  if  I  had  seen  it  with  my  own  eyes ;  and  that 
the  angel  Moroni  did  come  and  instruct  Joseph  Smith  and  reveal  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  that  that  book  was  translated  by  the  gift 
and  power  of  God.  I  believe  it  as  potently  as  if  that  angel  himself 
had  talked  to  me.  I  do  not  see  how  I  could  believe  it  any  more  if 
I  had  the  ocular  evidence.  I  know  it  is  true,  I  feel  it  in  my  soul. 
God  bless  you,  b'ess  this  Church,  bless  these  servants  of  his  who 
labor  all  the  day  long  for  your  benefit  and  for  the  benefiting  of  the 
Church,  and  for  the  glorifying  of  the  name  of  our  God  in  the  earth, 
I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

The  words  of  Bishop  Nibley,  concerning  thrift  and  economy, 
should  be  hearkened  unto  by  us  all.  It  is  our  duty  to  live  within  our 
means,  and  to  learn  that  happiness  in  life  is  in  the  spirit  and  no*  in 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


51 


worldly  things.  Benjamin  Franklin  said  wisely:  "It  is  not  only  im- 
portant to  earn  a  living,  but  to  conserve  a  living."  How  true  it  is  that 
the  eternal  needs  the  temporal. 

The  sessions  of  this  conference  have  reminded  me,  time  and  time 
again,  of  the  words  of  the  prophet  Isaiah:  "And  a  highway  shall  be 
there,  and  a  way,  and  it  shall  be  called  the  way  of  holiness."  And 
Ro'bert  Browning  said  once :  "I  thirst  for  truth,  but  shall  not  drink 
until  I  reach  the  source."  This  was  the  thought  that  the  little  boy 
Joseph  Smith  had,  when  he  went  into  the  woods  on  a  spring  morn- 
ing in  1820,  and  asked  God  for  light.  God  answered  him,  and  the  boy 
beheld  his  God,  and  at  his  side,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  This  is 
the  greatest  message  of  history  during  the  nineteenth  century.  H.  G. 
Wells  has  shown  in  his  Outlines  of  History  that  the  world  has  had 
great  epochs  when  mankind  has  risen  to  a  higher  life,  Such  epochs 
have  been  the  rise  of  the  Jewish  race  to  religious  power ;  the  birth  of 
Christ,  the  Renaissance  and  Reformation,  and  finally  the  French  Revo- 
lution and  the  rise  and  development  of  modern  science.  But  the  advent 
of  God  into  the  world  when  he  answered  the  little  boy  Joseph  Smith 
is  an  event  that  the  future  world  will  yet  have  to  reckon  with.  It  is 
one  of  the  great  events  in  history.  To  Joseph  Smith,  life  was  one 
supreme  duty,  and  it  was  to  be  filled  with  days  in  which  he  should 
seek  for  truth.  He  knew  that  a  "highway  should  be  there  and  that  it 
should  be  called  the  way  of  holiness,"  and  he  was  not  satisfied  to  drink 
of  truth  until  he  had  reached  the  source.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
was  given  to  the  world  at  a  new  period  of  history.  It  was  when  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  was  in  its  infancy,  yet  it  had  been 
launched  with  the  greatest  political  and  civic  ideals  that  were  ever 
known  to  modern  times.  It  was  a  new  period  of  social  and  economic 
life,  and  during  the  period  or  two  decades  from  1830  to  1850,  there 
was  more  advancement  in  industrial  history  than  there  had  been  in 
all  the  history  of  the  world  up  to  that  time.  With  the  coming  forth  of 
the  gospel,  new  life  and  understanding  of  the  ways  of  God  came  into 
the  world,  and  we  who  bear  the  Priesthood  understand  those  ways 
and  we  should  live  them  to  the  best  of  all  that  is  within  our  spiritual 
powers.  You  recall  the  gracious  prayer  of  Paul  the  apostle  as  he 
wrote  to  the  Ephesians : 

''For  this  cause  I  bow  ray  knees  unto  the  Father  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  of  whom  the  whole  family  in  heaven  and  earth  is  named,  that  he 
would  grant  you.  according  to  the  riches  of  his  glory,  to  be  strengthened 
with  might  by  his  Spirit  in  the  inner  man;  that  Christ  may  dwell  in  your 
hearts  by  faith;  that  ye,  being  rooted  and  grounded  in  love,  may  be  able 
to  comprehend  with  all  saints  what  is  the  breadth,  and  length,  and  depth, 
and  height;  and  to  know  the  love  of  Christ,  which  passeth  knowledge,  that  ye 
might  be  filled  with  all  the  fullness  of  God." 

Joseph  Smith  lived  when  men  were  doing  new  things  and  solving 
new  problems  in  life.  And  I  wish  to  say  that  Joseph  Smith  was  such 
an  important  figure  in  our  religious  history  that  attention  cannot  be 
directed  to  him  too  often.    He  was  the  prophet  of  a  formative,  ideal- 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


istic  age.  "His  is  a  voice  from  the  heights  bathed  in  the  sunshine  of 
the  spirit."  He  spoke  with  his  Maker,  and  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  has 
come  back  to  his  children.  And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  think- 
ing of  the  great  latter-day  prophet,  I  think  of  the  last  lesson  of  life, 
"the  choral  song  which  rises  from  all  angels  and  is  a  voluntary  obe- 
dience, a  necessitated  freedom.  When  man's  mind  is  illuminated, 
when  the  heart  is  kind,  he  throws  himself  joyfully  into  the  sublime 
order  and  does  with  knowledge,  what  the  stones  do  by  structure."  Joseph 
Smith  thirsted  for  truth,  but  did  not  drink  until  he  had  reached  the 
source. 

The  gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  is  to-day  being 
carried  to  all  the  world.  Of  all  people  who  are  to  be  taught  the  divine 
message,  the  American  Indians  will,  I  think,  accept  it  as  quickly  as 
any.  The  Indians  of  America  are  naturally  believers  in  the  Great 
Spirit,  and  their  traditions  and  myths  indicate  that  they  know  some- 
thing of  the  depths  of  religious  feeling.  Soon  after  the  organization 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  1830,  four 
Indians,  we  are  told,  appeared  on  the  streets  of  St  Louis.  They  were 
wan  and  haggard  after  a  journey  of  many  hundred  miles  from  the 
wilds  of  the  far  West.  They  were  of  the  Nez  Perces  and  Flathead 
tribes  and  explained  that  they  had  heard  of  the  white  man's  book  from 
heaven  and  had  come  to  find  it.  General  George  Clark,  commander 
of  the  military  post  at  St  Louis  entertained  them,  and  they  were  shown 
about  the  city  which  to  the  Indians  was  the  civilization  of  the  "pale 
faces."  Two  of  the  Indians  died  within  a  few  weeks,  and  some  days 
later  the  other  two  determined  to  leave  with  a  fur-ttading  company 
for  their  homes  beyond  the  Rocky  Mountains.  General  Clark  gave  a 
dinner  in  their  honor  to  which  were  invited  a  number  of  military  officers 
and  citizens.  At  this  dinner  Rabbit-Skin-Leggings  and  No-Horns-On- 
His-LIead,  for  these  were  the  names  of  the  two  Nez  Perces,  were 
told  about  the  Bible  and  the  desire  of  the  white  men  to  treat  all  the 
native  Red  Men  of  America  with  equity  and  justice.  Then  one  of 
the  Indians  arose  and  spoke,  and  according  to  some  accounts,  this  is 
what  he  said: 

"I  came  to  you  over  a  trail  of  many  moons  from  the  setting  sun. 
You  were  the  friends  of  my  fathers  who  have  all  gone  the  long-  way.  I 
came  with  one  eye  partly  opened,  for  more  light  for  my  people  who  sit 
in  darkness.  I  go  back  with  both  eyes  closed.  How  can  I  go  back 
blind  to  my  blind  people.  I  made  my  way  to  you  with  strong  arms, 
through  many  enemies  and  strange  lands,  that  I  might  carry  much  back 
to  them.  I  go  back  with  both  arms  broken  and  empty.  The  two  fathers 
who  came  with  me — the  braves  of  many  winters  and  wars — we  leave 
asleep  here  by  your  great  water.  They  were  tired  in  many  moons  and 
their  mocassins  worn  out.  My  people  sent  me  to  get  the  white  man's 
Book  from  Heaven.  You  took  me  where  you  allow  your  women  to  dance, 
as  we  do  not  ours,  and  the  Book  was  not  there.  You  took  me  where  they 
worship  the  Great  Spirit  with  candles,  as  we  do  not  ours.  The  Book 
was  not  there.  You  showed  me  images  of  the  Great  Spirit  and  pictures 
of  the  good  and  the  Beyond,  but  the  Book  was  not  among  them.  I  am 
going  back  the  long  trail  and  sad  trail  to  my  people  of  the  dark  land. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


53 


You  make  my  feet  heavy  with  burdens  of  gifts,  and  my  moccasins  will 
grow  old  in  carrying  them,  but  the  Book  is  not  among  them.  When  I 
tell  my  poor  people,  after  one  more  snow,  in  the  Council,  that  I  did 
not  bring  the  Book,  no  word  will  be  spoken  by  our  old  men,  and  our  young 
braves.  One  by  one  they  will  rise  and  go  out  in  silence.  My  people 
will  die  in  darkness,  and  they  will  go  on  the  long  path  to  other  hunting 
grounds.  No  white  man  will  go  with  them  and  no  white  man's  book 
to  make  the  way  plain.    I  have  no  more  words." 

The  two  Indians  went  back  to  their  homes,  and  soon  after  the 
American  Board  of  Commissioners  of  Foreign  Missions,  of  New  York, 
sent  Marcus  Whitman,  Samuel  Parker,  and  Dr.  Henry  Spaulding  to 
teach  and  convert  the  tribes  beyond  the  Rocky  Mountains.  Both 
Whitman  and  Spaulding  took  their  wives,  and  they  were  the  first 
women  to  go  to  Oregon  and  to  cross  the  Rocky  Mountains.  They 
established  missions,  and  opened  schools  for  the  Indians,  and  Mrs 
Spaulding  printed  chapters  of  the  Bible  on  an  old  printing  press.  The 
work  of  the  missionaries  did  much  to  bring  the  Oregon  Territory, 
later,  a  part  of  the  United  States. 

I  hope  the  day  will  come  when  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  be 
taken  anew  to  the  various  tribes  of  American  Indians,  and  I  have 
confidence  that  they  will  understand  the  true  message  of  the  Redeemer. 
I  pray  God  that  all  mankind  may  awaken  to  him  who  giveth  eternal 
life. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

1  have  enjoyed  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  testimonies 
of  the  brethren.  The  Lord  has  placed  great  weight  upon  two  sources  of 
testimony.  We  might  call  one  the  divine  witness  and  the  other  human 
witnesses.  Moroni,  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  calls 
our  attention  to  this  great  witness,  the  Comforter,  the  Holy  Ghost, 
who  will  teach  us  of  those  things  that  we  may  not  perfectly  find  out 
from  mere  human  evidence.  I  am  persuaded  that  the  Lord  has  also 
placed  weight  upon  mere  human  evidence,  because  it  was  foreordained 
more  than  twenty  centuries  before  the  three  witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon  were  actually  selected,  that  there  would  be  three  such  wit- 
nesses ;  that  there  should  be  the  one  witness  to  whom  the  book  should 
be  delivered,  and  there  should  be  three  special  witnesses,  "and  in  the 
mouth  of  as  many  witnesses  as  seemeth  him  good  will  he  establish 
his  word."  Read  II  Nephi  27:12,  13  and  14,  and  you  will  get  more 
fully  the  force  of  what  I  am  trying  to  present. 

Of  course,  Joseph  will  always  take  first  place  among  human  wit- 
nesses. His  testimony  is  very  satisfactory,  examine  it  from  whatever 
point  you  may.  He  lived  twenty-five  years  after  the  first  divine 
manifestation  to  him,  and  his  every  act  and  word,  and  his  whole  life's 
purpose,  were  in  accordance  with  the  great  message  which  he  had 
received.    His  testimony  has  good  carrying  power,  just  as  the  apostle 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Paul  had  good  carrying  power  in  his  testimony  that  he  had  seen  a 
vision,  as  he  went  on  his  way  to  Damascus  to  persecute  the  saints,  and 
was  miraculously  converted.  Indeed  there  is  a  similarity  between  the 
carrying  force  of  the  testimony  of  these  two  witnesses — Paul  in  his 
day  and  Joseph  the  Prophet  in  his.  Inasmuch  as  it  was  an  event  of 
importance  to  have  these  three  witnesses,  their  testimony  has  good 
carrying  force,  if  you  get  my  meaning  from  that  expression.  Test  it  in 
any  way  you  may  care  to  test  mere  human  evidence,  and  it  is  satis- 
factory. 

David  Whitmer,  in  the  early  80's,  was  interviewed  by  Elder  James 
H.  Hart,  and  was  asked  concerning  his  testimony  introductory  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  This  interview  was  placed  in  verse  form,  and  after- 
ward read  to  and  approved  by  David  Whitmer  : 

He  lifted  up  his  voice,  and  thus  replied: 
"My  written  statement  T  have  ne'er  denied; 
I  saw  the  angel,  and. I  heard  bis  voice 
And  wondrous  tilings  that  made  my  heart  rejoice. 

"This  interview  was  sought  with  earnest  prayer, 
The  Prophet  and  three  witnesses  were  there, 
But  Martin,  conscience-struck,  declined  to  stay, 
And  wandered  off  alone,  to  watch  and  pray. 

"I  do  not  know  the  angel's  rank,  or  name, 
Who  on  this  great  and  glorious  mission  came, 
I  know  that  he  was  clothed  with  power  and  might, 
And  was  surrounded  with  effulgent  light. 

"No  tongue  can  tell  the  glory  and  the  power, 
That  was  revealed  to  us  in  that  blest  hour; 
The  plates  of  brass  and  gold  the  angel  took, 
And  placed  before  us  like  an  open  book. 

"We  saw  the  fine  engravings  on  them,  too. 
And  heard  the  voice  declare  the  book  is  true; 
No  power  on  earth  could  from  our  minds  efface 
The  glorious  visions  of  this  trysting  place. 

"We've  done,  as  then  commanded  we  should  do, 
And  testified  the  'Mormon  Book'  is  true; 
And  was  translated  by  the  power  given 
The  Prophet  Joseph,  by  the  God  of  Heaven. 

"Thousands  of  people  have  been  here  to  see, 
The  'copy'  Oliver  has  left  with  me; 
The  characters,  moreover,  Martin  took 
Professor  Anthon — words  of  sacred  book. 

"Some  visit  me  who   'Mormonism'  hate, 
Some  ranking  low,  and  some  of  high  estate; 
I  tell  them  all,  as  now  I  say  to  you, 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  of  God,  and  true. 

"In  yonder  room  I  have  preserved  with  care. 
The  printer's  copy,  and  the  words  so  rare; 
The  very  words  from  Nephi's  sacred  book, 
That  Martin  to  Professor  Anthon  took. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


55 


"If  this  be  not  the  truth,  there  is  no  truth, 
And  I  have  been  mistaken  from  my  youth; 
If  I'm  mistaken,  you  may  know  from  thence, 
That  there's  no  God,  no  law,  no  life,  no  sense. 

"I  know  there  is  a  God — I've  heard  his  voice, 
And  in  his  power  and  truth  do  still  rejoice; 
Though  fools  may  ridicule  and  laugh  today, 
They  yet  shall  know  the  truth  of  what  1  say. 

"I've  suffered  persecution  at  the  hands 
Of  hireling  preachers  and  their  Christian  bands; 
I've  braved  their  hatred,  and  have  them  withstood, 
While  thirsting  for  the  youthful  Prophet's  blood. 

"They  came,  four  hundred  strong,  with  visage  bold, 
And  said,  'Deny  this  story  you  have  told, 
And  by  our  sacred  honor  we'll  engage 
To  save  you  from  the  mob's  infuriate  rage.' 

"A  mighty  power  came  on  me,  and  I  spake 
In  words  that  made  the  guilty  mobbers  quake; 
And  trembling  seized  the  surging  crowd,  and  fear, 
But  left  unharmed,  I  felt  that  God  was  near." 

And  this  same  witness  gave  this  testimony  as  his  dying  statement, 
as  did  the  other  two.  Martin,  now  buried  in  Clarkston,  concerning 
whose  resting  place  there  is  a  friendly  rivalry  between  sections  of  the 
country  where  he  is  buried,  as  to  which  shall  have  the  honor  in  their 
cemeteries  of  having  the  ashes  of  this  witness  finally  to  repose — it  was 
the  dying  statement  of  Martin  as  also  of  Oliver. 

David  called  a  physician  to  certify  that  he  was  of  sound  mind 
and  memory,  and  not  under  undue  influence  of  any  person,  was 
rational  in  every  way,  and  then  gave  his  testimony.  There  is  a  sig- 
nificance that  I  would  call  your  attention  to  in  connection  with  this 
testimony,  being  the  dying  statements  of  these  men ;  because  peculiar 
significance  is  attached  to  testimony  that  amounts  to  a  dying  declara- 
tion or  a  dying  statement.  One  of  the  early  common  law  jurists — 
said  of  such  testimony  given  "when  every  hope  of  this  world  is  gone, 
when  every  motive  to  falsehood  is  silenced,  and  the  mind  is  induced 
by  the  most  powerful  considerations  to  speak  the  truth,"  that  ''a 
situation  so  solemn  and  awful  is  considered  by  the  law  as  creating  an 
obligation  equal  to  that  imposed  by  an  oath  administered  in  court." 

The  law  as  it  prevails  in  the  United  States,  notwithstanding  the 
sixth  amendment  to  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States,  which  se- 
cures to  the  accused  "the  right  to  be  confronted  with  the  witnesses  against 
him,"  attaches  such  powerful  weight  to  a  dying  declaration  that  under 
certain  circumstances  hearsay  testimony  will  be  received  of  a  dying- 
declaration.    One  American  jurist  expresses  the  rule  as  follows; 

"When  dissolution  is  approaching  and  the  dying  man  has  lost  all  hope 
of  life,  and  the  shadows  of  the  grave  are  gathering  in  around  him  and 
his  mind  is  impressed  with  the  full  sense  of  his  condition,  the  solemnity 
of  the  season  and  hour  gives  to  his  statement  a  sanctity  of  truth  more 
impressive  and  potential  than  the  formalities  of  an  oath." 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


We  find  that  Shakespeare  well  understood  this  principle,  be- 
cause in  his  play  of  "King  John,"  he  makes  one  of  his  characters,  one 
Mellon,  who  is  in  extremis,  and  who  is  testifying  under  those  circum- 
stances, to  disclose  contemplated  treachery  on  the  part  of  King  Louis, 
When  disbelieved  by  those  to  whom  he  tells  his  story,  he  exclaims: 
"Have  I  not  hideous  death  before  my  view,  retaining  but  a  quantity  of 
life,  which  bleeds  away,  even  as  a  form  of  wax  resolveth  from  the 
figure  against  the  fire?  Why  in  the  world  should  I  deceive,  since  I 
must  lose  the  use  of  all  deceit?  Why  should  I  then  be  false,  since  it 
is  true  that  I  must  die  here,  and  live  hence  by  truth." 

So  we  may  gather  from  that,  something  of  the  force  that  we  are  justi- 
fied in  attaching  to  the  testimony  of  these  three  witnesses,  who  never  va- 
ried in  their  statements,  notwithstanding  this  one,  a  part  of  whose  inter- 
view I  have  read,  did  not  live  long  enough  to  come  back  into  the  full 
fellowship  of  the  Saints ;  yet  he  was  always  impressed  with  the  sacred- 
ness  of  this  testimony.  These  men  whom  it  was  determined  centuries 
in  advance  should  occupy  the  important  position  of  special  witnesses, 
should  be  indeed  men  of  integrity  and  of  fidelity,  and  of  rare  courage, 
s,o  that  they  might  ever  stand  for  the  truth  of  that  which  they  gave. 
And  Joseph,  as  I  said,  who  would  always  be  the  principal  human  wit- 
ness to  the  divinity  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  the  restoration 
of  the  Priesthood,  went  consciously  to  his  martyrdom  at  Carthage, 
just  as  anciently  the  Master  went  voluntarly  and  consciously  to  the 
great  sacrifice  of  his  life  at  Golgotha. 

And  so  we  have  had  testimoneis  reflected  here  of  both  these  varie- 
ties— the  testimony  of  the  brethren  of  that  witness  which  has  come  to 
them  by  the  great  Testator — the  Comforter,  the  Holy  Ghost,  spoken 
of  by  Moroni  as  a  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  Book,  when  it  should 
come  forth,  and  we  have  had  these  other  testimonies  of  various  grades. 
Indeed  we  can  scarcely  pick  up  a  magazine  or  a  book  in  the  world 
without  receiving  testimony  of  some  sort  to  the  divinity  of  so-called 
"Mormonism." 

I  thought,  while  President  Grant,  yesterday  morning,  referred  to 
the  revelations  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  of  the  obligation 
upon  parenthood  to  take  care  of  their  children,  of  a  recent  article  by 
Dr.  Charles  William  Eliot,  the  president  emeritus  of  Harvard,  who 
stands  as  the  grand  old  man  of  education,  occupying  the  same  relative 
position  towards  letters  that  our  grand  old  man  of  the  Church,  President 
Penrose,  occupies  with  reference  to  theology  and  religion  in  our  Church. 
These  men  are  the  very  nestors  in  their  respective  realms.  Dr.  Eliot,  who 
just  passed  his  ninetieth  birthday — not  quite  so  old,  as  you  will  observe, 
as  our  beloved  President  Penrose — is  concerned  at  the  way  the  youth  of 
this  land  are  being  trained.  He  calls  attention  to  three  great  divisions 
of  life  in  this  country,  the  Anglo-Catholic,  the  Protestant  denomina- 
tions, and  what  he  calls  the  "unchurched."  And  then  he  gives  us  a 
picture  of  how  these  "unchurched,"  as  he  calls  this  great  division  of 
our  citizens,  bring  up  their  children.  This  article  was  published  in  last 
month's  number  of  the  Atlantic  Monthly. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


57 


"Their  children  are  not  baptized  nor  christened;  if  dangerous  illness 
invades  the  family  no  priest  or  minister  is  requested  or  even  allowed  to 
visit  the  sick  one;  when  a  death  occurs  in  a  family  the  funeral  is  con- 
ducted from  the  undertaker's  'Funeral  Parlor'  or  'Funeral  Home'  with 
such  singing  and  reading  as  the  undertaker  cares  to  provide.  Marriage 
is  a  civil  process  only.  The  great  events  in  human  life — birth,  puberty, 
mortal  sickness  and  death — receive  no  religious  notice  with  them.  No 
such  experiment  on  so  vast  a  scale  has  ever  been  tried  since  time  began 
as  this  considerable  fraction  of  the  American  people  are  now  trying — 
namely,  bringing  up  children  without  any  religious  instruction,  or  any 
transmission  to  the  rising  generation  of  moral  traditions  handed  down 
through  primitive,  barbarous  and  civilized  peoples  in  succession." 

While  Dr.  Eliot  is  of  a  nature  inclined  naturally  to  be  optimistic 
and  hopeful,  one  can  perceive  his  concern  as  to  this  experiment,  the 
like  of  which  has  before  never  been  performed,  as  he  says,  on  so  large 
a  scale  as  this.   One  writer  gives  these  lines : 

"One  ship  drives  east  and  another  drives  west, 

While'  the  self-same  breezes  blow, 
'Tis  the  set  of  the  sail,  and  not  the  gale, 

That  bids  them  where  to  go. 

"The  winds  of  the  sea  are  like  the  waves  of  the  fates, 

As.  we  journey  along  through  life, — 
'Tis  the  set  of  the  soul  that  decides  the  goal, 

And  not  the  storms  or  the  strife." 

So  we  are  trying  to  use  the  organizations  of  the  Priesthood,  and 
all  good  helps  in  government,  and  the  literature  of  the  Church,  to 
give  the  youth  the  right  setting  to  the  soul. 

Dr.  Eliot  comments,  you  will  note,  on  marriage  being  a  mere 
civil  process.  In  reference  to  this  question  of  marriage,  Chas.  Franklin 
Thwinge,  President  of  a  University  of  our  land,  in  January,  1924, 
Current  History,  confesses:  "I  for  one,  as  a  Protestant  and  as  one 
ordained  to  the  Protestant  ministry,  should  be  glad  to  see  marriage 
lifted  to  the  rank  of  a  sacrament,  with  baptism  and  the  communion." 

Which  means  to  us,  to  the  rank  advocated  by  our  brethren  and 
in  accordance  with  revelations  of  the  Church. 

My  time  has  expired.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  this  work,  and 
help  us  to  have  the  testimony  that  we  are  entitled  to,  the  witness  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  in  addition  to  all  the  human  testimony  that  supports 
this  great  cause,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Chrst, 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission ) 

I  feel  that  I  occupy  a  very  important  position,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  standing  up  in  your  presence  to  make  a  few  remarks.  I 
appreciate  very  greatly  the  opportunity  that  is  afforded  me  of  bear- 
ing witness  to  the  truth  of  the  great  work  of  the  Lord,  as  it  has  been 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


established  upon  the  earth  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  and  of 
bringing  greetings  from  the  people  in  the  California  mission,  and 
from  the  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  various  sec- 
tions of  the  land,  who  have  been  appointed  to  labor  as  preachers  of  the 
gospel  in  this  mission. 
•  While  we  are  in  a  country  largely  given  up  to  pleasure  more  than 

to  the  things  of  God,  we  nevertheless  come  in  contact  with  a  good  many 
very  choice  people,  and  the  labors  of  the  missionaries  are  rewarded, 
from  time  to  time,  by  finding  honest-hearted  men  and  women  who 
hearken  to  the  message  that  has  been  delivered  in  this  age  ot  the 
world,  and  are  brought  from  the  darkness  that  is  in  the  world  to  the 
truth  that  has  been  revealed.  We  have  a  splendid  company  of  young 
men  and  women  operating  as  missionaries  in  the  mission.  They  are 
very  devoted  to  the  work  that  has  been  intrusted  to  their  care,  and 
they  are  laboring  to  the  best  of  their  power  to  discharge  their  duty  and 
bring  their  living  testimony  to  the  ears  of  as  many  people  as  possible. 
It  has  been  a  very  great  joy  and  satisfaction  to  me,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  be  associated  with  these  splendid  men  and  women,  one  could 
almost  be  prompted  to  say,  I  think,  "boys  and  girls." 

It  has  been  a  delight  to  note  the  workings  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  upon  them,  and  the  increase  of  testimony  and  knowledge  con- 
cerning the  things  of  God  that  has  been  brought  into  their  souls  by 
the  Spirit  and  power  of  God.  It  is  a  source  of  very  great  satisfaction 
to  be  able  to  say  that  they  are  giving  their  time,  in  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel,  very  cheerfully.  They  are  not  anxious  to  return  home.  It  is 
a  very  common  thing  to  find  the  missionaries  in  tears  when  announce- 
ment is  made  to  them  that  they  are  honorably  released  to  return  home, 
and  it  has  not  been  an  uncommon  thing  to  hear  missionaries  say  that 
it  is  a  greater  trial  to  leave  the  mission  field  than  it  was  to  leave  their 
homes  and  come  into  the  mission  field.  And  I  am  glad  that  the  Lord 
thus  works  upon  the  hearts  of  those  who  are  called  to  be  his  ambas- 
sadors in  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  that  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  They  come  into  the  mission  field  in  fear  and  trembling. 
They  ofttimes  have  some  question  in  their  own  minds  as  to  whether 
the  gospel  that  has  been  taught  them  by  their  parents  is  in  very  deed 
the  real  truth  of  God.  and  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  lint 
thank  God,  by  giving  attention  to  the  responsibilities  that  have  come  to 
them  through  being  called  through  the  channels  of  the  holy  Priesthood 
to  be  preachers  of  righteousness,  they  make  a  full  discovery  of  the 
truth  that  has  been  revealed,  and  their  hearts  are  given  to  the  Lord, 
and  they  labor  zealously  to  discharge  the  duty  that  rests  upon  them 
as  men  holding  divine  authority.  And  I  am  glad  to  say,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  not  only  do  these  young  men,  who  have  been  clothed 
with  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  advocate  the  doctrines  ot 
the  gospel  and  prosecute  their  ministry  with  very  great  zeal,  but  the 
sisters  are  just  as  anxious,  they  are  just  as  willing,  they  are  just  as 
faithful,  they  are  filled  with  the  same  spirit,  and  they  bear  witness  in 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


59 


the  same  manner  to  the  great  truth  that  has  been  made  manifest  unto 
them  by  the  power  of  God. 

I  have  thought  some  concerning  testimonies,  while  listening  to  the 
words  that  have  "been  spoken  here  by  the  brethren.  We  are  sometimes 
found  fault  with  in  relation  to  the  testimonies  that  we  bear ;  men  and 
women  apparently  entertain  the  thought  that  we  ought  not  to  be  so  sure 
in  relation  to  the  doctrines  that  we  are  teaching.  They  seem  to  enter- 
tain the  thought  that  we  are  narrow  in  our  views,  because  when  we  bear 
testimony  to  the  things  of  God,  and  that  we  have  knowledge  concern- 
ing those  things,  it  is  an  indication  that  other  people  do  not  possess 
that  same  knowledge.  I  just  desire  to  read  a  word  or  two  of  scripture, 
and  I  thank  God  with  all  my  soul  that  if  men  speak  of  us  as  being  nar- 
row-minded and  if  they  find  fault  with  us  because  we  bear  witness 
that  we  have  a  knowledge  concerning  the  things  of  God,  that  we  do 
not  bear  witness  in  any  stronger  language  concerning  the  knowledge 
that  we  possess  and  the  necessity  of  yielding  obedience  to  the  doctrines 
of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  than  the  ministers  of  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  used,  when  they  were  teaching  the  same  gospel 
in  the  meridian  of  time. 

"This,  then,"  wrote  one  of  the  Apostles,  "is  the  message  which  we 
have  heard  of  him,  and  declare  unto  you  that  God  is  light,  and  in  him 
is  no  darkness  at  all.  If  we  say  that  we  have  fellowship  with  him,  and 
walk  in  darkness,  we  lie  and  do  not  speak  the  truth ;  but  if  we  walk  in 
the  light,  as  he  is  in  the  light,  we  have  fellowship  with  one  another, 
and  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  cleanseth  us  from  all  sins." 

I  do  not  think  any  "Mormon"  missionary  makes  testimony  in  any 
stronger  language  than  that,  if  we  say  we  have  fellowship  with  him 
and  walk  in  darkness,  we  lie  and  do  not  speak  the  truth.  We  teach 
men,  and  we  feel  that  we  are  under  obligation  to  teach  men,  that  they 
must  walk  in  the  light  as  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  in  the  light,  and  that 
we  can  only  have  fellowship  with  our  Redeemer,  and  with  the  truth 
of  God,  as  we  thus  walk  in  the  light. 

And  the  same  writer,  in  similar  language,  teaches  the  same  kind  of 
doctrine :  "Whosoever  transgresseth,  and  abideth  not  in  the  doctrine 
of  Christ,  hath  not  God.  He  that  abideth  in  the  doctrine  of  Christ, 
he  hath  both  the  Lather  and  the  Son." 

And  then  this  writer  says  with  unbounded  certainty:  "If  there 
come  any  unto  you,  and  bring  not  this  doctrine,  receive  him  not  into 
your  house,  neither  bid  him  God  speed :  Lor  he  that  biddeth  him  God 
speed  is  partaker  of  his  evil  deeds." 

And  the  same  writer  again  makes  declaration :  "And  we  know 
that  we  are  of  God,  and  the  whole  world  lieth  in  wickedness." 

I  do  not  understand  that  I  have  been  sent  to  labor  in  the  California 
mission  with  any  instruction,  in  any  way,  to  compromise  the  word  of 
God  and  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  but  that 
I  have  been  sent  there  to  teach  men  that  they  must  walk  in  the  light 
as  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  in  the  light,  that  they  must  turn  from  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


doctrines  of  men,  and  the  follies  of  men,  and  the  theological  nonsense 
that  there  is  in  the  world  today,  and  yield  obedience  to  the  truth  that 
has  been  revealed  by  the  Lord  God  of  heaven.  I  would  that  I  might 
make  that  clear  to  the  understanding  of  those  who  are  within  our 
gates  today.  We  have  a  message  to  deliver  to  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth,  a  message  that  has  been  revealed  by  the  Lord  our  God,  that  has 
been  sent  to  this  world  by  the  coming  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  as 
has  heen  taught  in  our  conference — divine  authority  restored  to  mortal 
men,  by  the  sending  of  holy  angels  who,  placing  their  hands  upon  the 
heads  of  mortal  men,  conferred  upon  them  the  authority  of  the  holy- 
Priesthood,  and  made  them  representatives  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
giving  them  power  and  authority  to  call  men  to  repentance,  and  to 
administer  legally  the  saving  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  And  this  is 
in  keeping  with  the  revelations  of  God  and  the  promises  of  God,  made 
by  the  very  apostles  whose  words  I  have  read  in  your  hearing — that 
there  was  to  come  a  time  when  another  angel  should  wend  his  way 
from  heaven,  "having  the  everlasting  gospel,  to  preach  to  the  inhab- 
itants of  the  earth,  to  every  nation,  and  to  every  kindred,  and  to  every 
tongue  and  to  every  people,  crying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God  and 
give  glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come." 

It  is  my  responsibility  to  bear  witness  that  that  angel  has  wended 
his  way  from  heaven  to  earth,  that  divine  authority,  the  power  to  speak 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  has  been  given  again  to  men, 
and  by  that  authority  we  call  men  to  repentance  and  to  the  waters  of 
baptism,  that  they  may  be  cleansed  from  their  sins,  and  that  they  may- 
walk  in  the  light,  as  he  is  in  the  light,  and  there  is  no  other  way,  and 
there  is  no  other  authority  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth  that  can 
thus  minister  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel  which  are  essential  to  the 
salvation  of  the  human  family. 

God  help  us  to  believe  the  truth,  and  stand  for  the  truth,  and  teach 
the  truth,  let  men  say  or  think  what  they  may,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

I  rejoice  this  day  in  the  testimony  of  the  truth  that  has  been  re- 
vealed from  heaven  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith ;  in  the  truth  of  that  gospel  which  has  been  restored  to  the 
earth,  which  I  bear  witness  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  The 
fool  hath  said  in  his  heart,  "there  is  no  God."  There  are  many  who 
are  willing  to  believe  that  there  is  some  vague  essence  existing  in  the 
universe  which  they  are  pleased  to  call  God,  but  at  any  near  approach 
of  that  divine  being,  by  whose  power  the  earth  and  the  heavens  have 
been  created,  they  begin  to  deny  him.  The  poet  has  told  us  that  "dis- 
tance lends  enchantment  to  the  view,"  and  ,so  I  think  it  is  with  reference 
to  the  faith  of  many  men  and  women  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. — 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


61 


The  farther  away  and  more  remote  they  can  locate  their  Supreme 
Being,  the  better  satisfied  they  are ;  but  when  he  reveals  himself  to  man 
in  the  day  and  age  in  which  we  live,  then  they  begin  to  deny  him. 
When  God  manifested  himself  in  the  flesh  in  the  coming  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  God  was  made  manifest.  He  came  near 
unto  men  and  only  those  who  had  in  their  hearts  a  love  of  God  were 
willing  to  accept  of  him  as  in  very  deed  the  Son  of  God,  the  creator 
of  heaven  and  earth.  Mankind  are  in  darkness  to  a  very  great  extent 
in  their  search  after  God. 

I  rejoice  in  the  efforts  that  are  made  by  honest  investigators  en- 
deavoring to  find  out  something  of  the  secrets  of  life.  I  have  no  desire 
whatever  to  criticize  all  such  honest  investigation.  May  the  truth 
dawn  upon  their  minds,  and  may  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  assist 
them  in  their  honest  endeavor  to  find  out  the  truths  of  heaven.  But  if 
they  desire  to  know  the  truth,  they  can  only  learn  it  by  securing 
the  Spirit  of  God  that  comes  from  his  presence  and  reveals  these  .secrets 
unto  the  children  of  men.  But  if  we  possess  his  holy  Spirit,  then  may 
we  attain  to  this  divine  knowledge,  and  not  otherwise. 

My  heart  goes  out  in  love  and  admiration  and  in  adoration  unto 
my  heavenly  Father,  when  I  look  out  upon  this  beautiful  world,  and 
particularly  at  this  season  of  the  year  when  we  see  the  buds  swelling 
upon  the  trees,  about  to  burst  into  a  new  life,  when  we  see  the  grass 
coming  out  of  the  ground,  vegetation  making  itself  manifest,  and  when 
a  few  days  hence  all  nature  will  be  alive,  quickened  by  the  power  of 
God.  And  my  heart  goes  out  in  worship  and  adoration  to  the  giver  of 
this  life,  the  creator  of  all  things.  I  am  inclined  to  refer  to  a  couple 
of  paragraphs  which  I  committed  to  memory  when  I  was  a  boy.  They 
seem  to  carry  the  expression  of  thought  that  is  now  in  my  heart.  The 
paragraphs  referred  to  were  written  in  the  German  language,  and  I 
committed  them  to  memory  while  I  was  engaged  in  the  study  of  that 
language.    I  will  endeavor  to  give  a  free  translation  of  them : 

"Things  that  are  useful,  benevolent  and  indispensable ;  things  which 
pertain  to  our  clothing,  to  our  nourishment  and  to  our  shelter,  and 
generally  speaking  that  pertain  to  the  sustaining  of  living  creatures, 
we  find  in  nature.  Water  quenches  our  thirst.  All  kinds  of  fruits 
satisfy  our  hunger.  We  find  materials  for  the  building  of  our  homes, 
and  for  the  clothing  of  our  bodies.  An  Almighty  hand  distributes 
among  us  the  things  that  we  need ;  but  also  things  that  are  beautiful, 
grand  and  glorious  hath  God  created ;  things  which  we  view  with 
wondering  ecstasy,  things  that  arouse  our  admiration  and  fill  our  hearts 
with  joy — the  splendor  of  the  starry  heavens,  the  morning  and  the 
evening  red,  the  different  forms  and  colors  of  the  clouds,  the  beauti- 
ful green  of  the  meadows,  the  blossoms  and  the  flowers  show  us  a 
beauty  and  a  splendor  which  touch  our  hearts  and  lift  up  our  souls  in 
grateful  adoration  to  God  that  he  hath  so  beautifully  and  so  inimitably 
adorned  his  great  creation  work." 

These  are  the  thoughts  that  come  into  my  heart  when  I  look  out 
upon  this  wonderful  world  in  which  we  live,  and  I  feel  to  worship 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  adore  my  heavenly  Father  as  the  Creator  of  all  things  that  are, 
in  this  world  in  which  we  live  today.  How  I  marvel  at  the  infidelity, 
at  the  atheism,  the  agnosticism,  that  prevail  among  mankind,  when  they 
stand  in  the  midst  of  these  wonderful  things  that  ought  to  fill  their 
hearts  with  faith  in  God,  and  to  turn  them  to  him,  to  worship  him  in 
spirit  and  in  truth. 

When  I  look  out  upon  this  vast  congregation  before  me  now 
and  realize  that  here  are  many  thousands  of  living  human  beings  whose 
faces  are  directed  towards  me,  and  who  hearken  to  the  words  which 
I  now  speak,  my  heart  is  filled  with  wonder  to  think  what  miracle 
stands  before  me  when  so  many  can  be  attracted,  and  possibly  interested, 
in  the  words  that  I  now  speak.  Oh,  how  I  feel  that  God  has  mani- 
fested himself  in  his  very  children  that  dwell  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth,  living-,  intelligent  beings,  having  the  power  to  understand  and  to 
think  and  to  receive  knowledge  and  understanding  or  instruction. 

Men  have  endeavored  to  find  out  the  origin  of  life.  May  they 
succeed  in  their  honest  endeavors  to  do  so.  Men  have  tried  to  prove 
that  human  beings  have  descended  from  lower  orders  of  life.  There 
has  never  been  any  satisfactory  discovery  to  indicate  that  the  human 
family  have  ever  been  anything  else  than  human  beings,  the  children 
of  God,  but,  on  the  contrary  they  have  always  found  that  all  life 
proceeds  from  some  similar  anterior  life.  With  all  due  respect  to  what 
they  have  observed  in  the  law  of  differentiation  or  of  natural  selec- 
tion, they  have  never  been  able  to  satisfactorily  show  any  change  of 
species.  Men  have  been  formed  and  fashioned  in  the  image  of  their 
great  Creator.  But  even  in  the  investigations  which  learned  men  have 
made,  when  they  go  back  to  the  protoplasm,  or  the  small  cells  to  which 
they  sometimes  refer,  even  then  the  mystery  of  life  is  just  as  great 
as  it  was  in  the  beginning.  This  world  is  teeming  with  this  wonderful 
phenomenon  of  life.  It  is  everywhere  abundant.  It  manifests  itself 
in  the  vegetation,  in  the  grass,  the  trees  and  the  flowers,  in  the 
animals  that  creep  upon  the  earth,  in  the  fowls  of  heaven,  the  fishes  of 
the  seas,  and  the  beasts  of  the  field  as  they  are  found  upon  the  earth, 
and  also  in  mankind.  Mr.  H.  G.  Wells  in  his  "Outline  of  History" 
points  out  that  this  thing  that  we  call  life,  this  phenomenon,  is  within 
certain  restricted  areas  to  be  found  upon  the  earth,  a  few  hundred 
feet  beneath  the  surface,  a  few  thousand  feet  into  the  air,  and  out 
into  the  streams  of  water  and  in  the  mighty  ocean,  but  beyond  these 
limitations  there  is  no  such  thing  as  life,  at  least  so  far  as  the 
scientific  world  has  any  knowledge  whatever;  but  within  those 
limitations  the  world  is  teeming  with  life.  Whence  came  it?  We 
read  and  understand,  and  the  philosophers  and  scientists  tell  us — and 
truly,  too,  I  think — that  there  was  a  time  when  this  earth  upon  which 
we  live  was  a  molten  fiery  mass,  where  the  heat  was  so  intense  that 
no  living  thing  could  exist  upon  it.  Then  whence  came  all  this  life 
now  manifest  among  us?  Did  it  come  by  spontaneous  generation? 
Did  it  create  itself?  Impossible!  This  same  author  points  out  that 
there  are  certain  characteristics  of  life,  one  of  them  being  that  things 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


63 


that  live  have  some  motion  of  their  own  accord.  It  may  be  merely  the 
movement  of  the  roots  of  a  blade  of  grass,  but  there  is  some  self 
motion.  Another  characteristic  is  that  all  things  that  live  must  be 
nourished,  receive  nourishment  or  they  will  die,  another  is  that  living 
things  will  grow.  Another  characteristic  is  that  having  attained  their 
maturity  they  propagate  and  reproduce  their  own  kind,  not  any  other 
kind.  And  still  another  characteristic  of  things  that  live  is  that  they 
will  die;  all  things  that  live  must  die.  These  are  the  characteristics 
of  living  things,  different  from  the* things  that  have  no1  life,  like  the 
rocks,  the  metals,  the  gold,  the  silver,  the  copper,  the  lead,  and  the 
tin  that  have  no  life.  Well,  whence  came  this  life  that  we  see  in 
abundance,  this  whole  world  teeming  with  it  everywhere?  Inasmuch 
at  at  one  time,  it  could  not  have  existed  upon  the  earth ;  and  go  back 
as  far  as  they  wid  scientists  do  not  explain  the  origin  of  life,  but 
they  freely  admit :  we  do  not  know  the  origin  of  life,  then  let  us  go 
to  the  good  book  and  there  we  shall  find  the  only  rational  explanation 
of  it: 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth,"  and  all 
things  that  in  them  are. 

And  he  "created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God 
created  he  him;  male  and  female  created  he  them." 

There  is  the  testimony  of  Moses,  the  Prophet  of  God,  bearing 
witness  to  the  fact  that  God  is  our  Creator. 

Again  in  the  days  when  the  Savior  came  and  administered  in  this 
world  among  men,  Peter  declared  to  him  when  he  was  asked,  "Whom 
say  ye  that  1  am?"    "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God." 

That  was  his  testimony.  He  knew  that  he  was  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God.  The  Savior  told  him :  "Flesh  and  blood  hath 
not  revealed  this  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  But 
some  people  tell  us  that  Jesus  never  claimed  that  he  was  the  Son  of 
God,  that  he  never  said  it,  and  yet  he  declares  here  that  Peter  had 
received  this  knowledge  from  the  revelation  of  God  the  Father  to  him. 
And  again  when  Lazarus,  the  brother  of  Martha  and  Mary  died,  Jesus 
was  away,  but  he  came  up  and  he  was  met  by  Martha  who  came  out 
to  meet  him  and  said:  "Lord,  if  thou  hadst  been  here,  he  had  not 
died."  And  the  Savior  replied :  "He  shall  live  again."  Martha  said : 
"Yea,  Lord,  we  know  in  that  last  day  in  the  resurrection  from  the 
dead."  And  the  Savior  made  this  notable  remark:  "I  am  the  resur- 
rection and  the  life,  and  he  that  believeth  on  me,  though  he  were 
dead,  yet  shall  he  live."  And  then  he  declared:  "He  that  believeth 
on  me  .shall  never  die.  Believest  thou  this?"  said  he  to  Martha,  and 
she  replied,  bearing  her  .splendid  testimony:  "Yea,  Lord,  I  believe 
that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  Joseph  Smith 
received  a  revelation  contained  in  Section  88  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  and  after  setting  forth  the  fact  that  the  spirit  and  the 
body  constitute  the  soul  of  man,  this  revelation  reads :  "And  the 
resurrection  of  the  body  is  the  redemption  of  the  ,soul."  Then  the  next 
paragraph  explains  how  the  redemption  of  the  soul  is  brought  about, 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


i 

who  brings  it  to  pass.  "And,"  declares  the  Lord  to  Joseph  Smith,  in 
entirely  different  words,  but  telling  the  same  story:  "And  the  re- 
demption of  the  soul,"  or  the  resurrection  of  the  body,  "is  through 
him  who  quickeneth  all  things."  He  quickeneth  the  grass  and  makes 
it  grow.  He  causes  the  buds  to  swell  and  burst  with 
new  life,  and  causes  the  animal  creation  to  live  upon  the 
earth.  He  gives  unto  us  the  breath  of  life.  He  quickeneth 
all  things,  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Hence  he  is  called  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind.  So  here  we  find  Moses,  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  Peter,  Martha,  and  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet,  giving  utterance 
to  the  same  thing,  truly  in  different  language,  under  different  cir- 
cumstances, but  all  bearing  record  to  the  self  same  truth  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
the  very  Son  of  God.  That  is  the  testimony  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  I  bear  witness  to  the  testimony  that  now  burns  in  my  heart  that 
this  is  the  truth,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  God  from  whom  all 
blessings  flow." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wm.  H.  Richards,  presi- 
dent of  the  Malad  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

At  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  April  5>,  1924,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  pre- 
sided and  announced  that  the  choir  and  congregation  would  sing,  "O 
ye  mountains  high." 

Following  the  hymn,  Elder  Hugh  J.  Camion,  president  of  the  Lib- 
erty stake  of  Zion,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

A  duet  entitled,  "Love  Divine"  was  sung  by  Ross  Pratt  and  Melba 
Connelly. 

The  tabernacle  was  crowded  to  overflowing  and  an  arrangement 
had  been  made  to  accommodate  by  radio  an  overflow  congregation  at 
the  Assembly  Hall,  which  was  also  largely  attended. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

It  is  certainly  very  gratifying  to  see  this  building  filled  to  over- 
flowing with  people,  many  standing  in  the  aisles  and  the  doorways.  We 
have  never  before  had  such  an  attendance  upon  a  week  day  at  any  of  our 
conferences  as  we  had  yesterday  and  as  we  are  having  today.  Ampli- 
fiers have  been  installed  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  so  that  those  who 
do  not  have  seats  here,  and  would  like  to  go  over  there,  can  be  com- 
fortably seated,  and  hear  whatever  is  .said  in  this  building. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  65 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Once  upon  a  time  I  had  occasion  to  make  purchases  for  the 
fitting  up  of  rooms  for  office  work. 

NOT  CONNECTED  UP  A  COMPARISON 

I  went  into  a  large  electrical  establishment,  there  to  select  electro- 
liers, push  buttons,  switches,  bells,  and  annunciators.  I  was  confronted 
with  a  splendid  display  of  these  appliances.  The  salesman,  up-to- 
date  in  matter  and  method,  drew  my  attention  to  the  excellence  of 
this  or  that  piece,  and  showed  me  how  well  the  push  button  provided 
for  the  wall  would  go  with  that  particular  hanging,  or  the  bell  that 
he  recommended.  I  stepped  to  the  button  and  pressed  it,  but,  lo,  there 
was  silence.  I  turned  a  switch  to  see  how  the  light  would  glow  in 
the  frosted  globe,  to  which  my  attention  had  been  drawn  with  many 
commendatory  remarks  from  the  salesman,  but  there  was  no  light. 
I  knew  the  reason,  but  I  gave  myself  the  pleasure,  of  having  him 
explain.  He  said :  "You  see  these  things  are  here  for  show,  they 
are  not  connected  up."  After  having  made  my  selections  I  smiled 
over  the  incident  as  it  came  to  me  in  mind,  and  I  said :  "How  like 
some  of  the  institutions  of  men — beautiful  to  look  upon,  gilded,  studded, 
ornamental,  sometimes  simple  and  ofttimes  lavish  and  ornate,  but  not 
connected  up." 

INSTITUTIONS  OF  MEN 

Men  may  form  institutions  as  they  like,  provided  they  have 
but  good  purpose  in  so  doing,  and  may  do  with  those  institutions, 
within  the  limits  of  propriety,  whatever  they  choose,  and  they  may 
even  call  such  institutions  churches — for  there  is  no  patent  on  the 
term — and  these  being  churches  that  men  have  made,  they  may  be 
handled  as  men  choose.  So  I  have  no  fault  to  find  at  all  with  men 
or  institutions  who  are  suggesting  changes  in  their  creeds,  or  mod- 
ifications of  what  have  been  regarded  as  their  fundamental  doctrines. 
They  made  those  churches,  and  they  can  do  with  them  just  as  they 
like.  They  have  named  them  appropriately ;  most  of  the  names  are 
expressive,  honest,  frank  and  truthful ;  and  men  may  do  what  they 
like  within  the  limits  of  reason  and  ordinary  propriety  with  things 
that  men  have  made. 

BEWARE  OF  FORMS  WITHOUT  POWER 

Someone  has  remarked  that  there  is  a  difference  between  the 
form  and  the  substance.  I  only  need  to  remind  you  of  the  admonition 
that  Paul  gave  unto  his  associate  in  the  ministry,  Timothy,  to  be  in 
turn  given  by  the  younger  missionary  to  the  people :  to  beware  of 
the  form  of  godliness  without  the  power  thereof.  Read  it  for  your- 
selves in  II  Timothy,  third  chapter.  There  is  a  context  there  to 
which  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention,  for  I  believe  it  has  ap- 
plication in  this  day:  ■  j        .  ;  ,  , 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"This  know  also,"  wrote  Paul,  "that  in  the  last  days  perilous  times 
shall  come. 

"For  men  shall  be  lovers  of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud, 
blasphemers,  disobedient  to  parents,  unthankful  unholy, 

"Without  natural  affection,  trucebreakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent, 
fierce,  despisers  of  those  who  are  good, 

"Traitors  heady,  highminded,  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than  lovers 
of  God." 

Do  you  not  think  that  Paul  was  a  prophet?  Was  he  not  a 
seer  in  fact?  Was  he  not  able  to  see  this  day,  these  last  times?  He 
sums  up  his  admonition  in  the  next  verse: 

"Having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying  the  power  thereof:  from 
such  turn  away." 

THE  GOSPEL  GIVEN  BY  REVELATION  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

We  read  that  in  the  wonderful  manifestation  of  the  Father  and 
his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  to  Joseph  Smith  in  this  last  age,  in  the  spring 
of  1820,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  made  that  same  comment,  or  de- 
claration, concerning  the  many  opposing,  quarreling,  contending  sects 
of  the  times,  whose  creeds  he  pronounced  an  abomination  in  his  sight ; 
for,  said  he,  "they  draw  near  to  me  with  their  lips,  but  their  hearts 
are  far  from  me;  they  teach  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men, 
having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  they  deny  the  power  thereof."  With 
marked  appropriateness  Bishop  Nibley  this  morning  drew  attention  to 
a  passage  in  the  84th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  Such 
part  of  it  as  he  cited,  he  quoted  exactly.  The  context,  however,  is 
interesting  to  consider,  beginning  with  the  19th  verse,  the  Lord  having 
spoken  of  the  real  meaning  and  significance  of  the  Priesthood,  which 
is  the  power  to  speak  and  to  act  in  the  name  of  God,  declared; 

"And  this  greater  priesthood  administereth  the  gospel  and  holdeth  the 
key  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the  knowledge  of  God. 

"Therefore,  in  the  ordinances  thereof,  the  power  of  godliness  is  manifest. 

"And  without  the  ordinances  thereof,  and  the  authority  of  the  priest- 
hood, the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  unto  men  in  the  flesh." 

Now,  as  I  have  started  on  Scripture  reading,  and  I  can  not  give 
you  better  doctrine  than  that  we  find  recorded  in  the  written  word, 
I  turn  for  a  moment  to  the  letter  that  Paul  wrote  to  the  saints  in 
Galatia,  some  of  whom  had  become  careless  and  negligent  after  his 
departure,  so  that  he  had  to  remind  them  of  their  duties.    He  said : 

"I  marvel  that  ye  are  so  soon  removed  from  him  that  called  you  into 
the  grace  of  Christ  unto  another  gospel:" 

Then  he  went  on  to  explain : 

"Which  is  not  another:  but  there  be  some  that  trouble  you,  and  would 
pervert  the  gospel  of  Christ. 

"But  though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven,  preach  any  other  gospel  unto 
you  than  that  which  we  have  preached  unto  you,  let  him  be  accursed. 

"As  we  said  before,  so  say  I  now  again.  If  any  man  preach  any  other 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


67 


gospel  unto  you  than  that  ye  have  received  let  him  be  accursed. 

"For  do  I  now  persuade  men,  or  God?  or  do  I  seek  to  please  men?  for 
if  I  yet  pleased  men,  I  should  not  be  the  servant  of  Christ." 

But  I  ask  you,  note  particularly  the  verses  following,  justifying 
what  may  otherwise  appear  to  be  severe,  if  not  caustic,  words : 

"But  I  certify  you,  brethren,  that  the  gospel  which  was  preached  of  me 
is  not  after  man. 

"For  I  neither  received  it  of  man,  neither  was  I  taught  it,  but  by  the 
revelation  of  Jesus  Christ." 

PREACHING  FOR  DOCTRINE  THE   COMMANDMENTS   OF  MEN 

We  proclaim  our  adherence  to  the  principle  of  toleration.  "We 
claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege, 
let  them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may."  Some  have  fancied 
that  there  is  a  little  inconsistency  between  what  we  have  called  the 
liberty  of  the  gospel  and  such  admonitions  as  that  of  Paul,  which 
I  have  read  unto  you ;  but  there  is  no  inconsistency.  Who  were  to 
be  accursed?  Those  who  preached  any  other  gospel  than  that  which 
he  had  preached  unto  them,  for  the  gospel  he  had  preached  unto  them 
was  not  of  men;  it  had  been  given  by  revelation;  and  he  preached 
it,  as  he  had  a  right  to  do,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Now  he  was  referring  to  those  who  were  on  the  inside,  people  who 
were  going  about  amongst  the  Saints,  many  of  whom,  perhaps  all  of 
whom,  claimed  some  standing  with  them,  preaching  a  false  doctrine 
and  setting  up  a  false  gospel,  and  upon  them  he  pronounced  the 
anathema  of  cursing  for  presenting  their  own  conceptions  and  their 
own  views  as  the  revealed  word  of  God.  Were  such  not  deserving 
of  a  curse?  Was  it  not  deception  of  the  most  serious  kind — preach- 
ing as  the  doctrines  of  Christ  what  was  nothing  more  than  the  theories, 
the  precepts  and  the  commandments  of  men? 

THE  SIN  OF  PREACHING  WITHOUT  AUTHORITY 

If  you  wish  to  preach  these  things  as  the  precepts  of  men,  all 
well  and  good.  Let  those  who  will,  listen  to  them;  but  to  preach 
such  and  affirm  that  they  are  the  doctrines  of  Jesus  Christ,  unless 
they  are  in  harmony  with  the  doctrines  of  Jesus  Christ,  is  blasphemy. 
This  Church  stands  for  the  gospel  that  Paul  preached.  It  is  the 
gospel  of  all  times,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  it  has  been  preached 
in  the  world  since  the  days  of  Adam,  though  there  have  been  long 
periods  of  darkness,  due  to  repeated  apostasies,  when  the  people  have 
turned  away,  loving  Satan  more  than  they  loved  God,  and  making  it 
impossible  for  the  gospel  to  be  widely  proclaimed.  But  it  has  been 
given  to  the  earth,  again  and  again,  through  the  different  dispensations, 
which  have  been  special  conferments  and  bestowals  of  authority  by  the 
Lord  for  the  carrying  out  of  His  purposes. 

Do  you  not  remember  that  the  risen  Lord,  in  giving  his  last 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


instructions  to  the  apostles,  told  them  to  go  into  all  the  world  and 
teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of 
the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost?  Who  dares  take  unto  himself 
authority  to  officiate  in  those  names,  the  names  of  the  Holy  Trinity, 
•  if  he  has  not  been  duly  commissioned?  Who  would  dare  undertake 
to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Governor  of  this  sovereign  State  if  he 
were  not  duly  commissioned?  The  prison  bars  are  ready  to  open  to 
receive  such  a  one.  It  would  be  a  crime  under  the  law  of  the  State. 
Who  can  speak  in  behalf  of  an  officer  of  the  law,  if  he  has  not  been 
properly  deputized,  if  authority  has  not  been  delegated  unto  him?  Now, 
why  shall  we  use  one  rule  of  common  sense  in  dealing  with  the  things 
of  earth  and  a  rule  that  is  not  in  accordance  with  common  sense  in 
dealing  with  the  authorities  and  powers  of  heaven? 

THE  AUTHORITY  OF  ANCIENT  TIMES  NOT  SUFFICIENT  FOR  TODAY 

When  the  Lord  established  his  Church  amongst  the  Xephites 
upon  this  continent,  he  told  those  who  were  chosen  and  ordained, 
unto  whom  authority  was  given,  just  how  to  administer  the  ordin- 
ance of  baptism.  They  were  to  say :  "Having  authority  given  me 
of  Jesus  Christ,  I  baptize  you  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the 
Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  That  does  not  give  us  in  this  age  any 
such  authority.  The  words  that  Christ  spoke  unto  his  apostles  of 
old  would  be  no  authority  unto  the  apostles  today,  nor  unto  any  of 
the  elders  of  the  Church.  I  repeat, -the  words  that  he,  the  Lord, 
spoke  unto  the  disciples  who  were  chosen  from  among  the  Nephites 
would  be  no  authority  unto  us;  but  in  this  day  and  age  he  has  spoken 
again,  and  has  given  that  .same  power  and  authority  to  speak  in  his 
name,  and  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  after  the  pattern 
that  he  has  set ;  and  therefore  the  elders  and  priests  who  take  candidates, 
who  have  professed  their  faith,  and  who  have  repented  of  their  sins, 
into  the  waters  of  baptism  today,  declare  that  they  have  authority 
given  them :  and,  being  commissioned  of  Jesus  Christ,  they  baptize  in 
the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Many 
have  assumed  that  men  may  administer  these  ordinances  of  their 
own  accord,  though  such  assumption  is  opposed  to  all  reason.  In 
the  early  days  of  this  Church,  when  many  were  trying  to  get  in,  some 
wanted  admission  because  they  had  been  baptized  in  other  churches ; 
they  had  received  the  ordinance  called  baptism ;  and  the  Lord  .spoke 
definitely  upon  the  matter.  Read  the  22nd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  wherein  he  said  unto  the  people  in  that  day: 

"Behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  all  old  covenants  have  I  caused  to  be  done 
away  in  this  thing;  and  this  is  a  new  and  an  .everlasting  covenant,  even  that 
which  was  from  the  beginning. 

"Wherefore,  although  a  man  should  be  baptized  an  hundred  times 
it  availeth  him  nothing,  for  you  cannot  enter  in  at  the  strait  gate  by  the 
law  of  Moses,  neither  by  your  dead  works. 

"For  it  is  because  of  your  dead  works  that  I  have  caused  this  last 
covenant  and  this  church  to  be  built  up  unto  me,  even  as  in  days  of  old." 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


69 


THE  CHURCH  OF  CHRIST  HAS  AUTHORITY  AND  IS  CONNECTED  UP 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  Church 
its  name  declares  it  to  be,  and  the  authority  and  power  of  the  holy 
Priesthood  is  in  it,  without  which  there  could  not  be,  cannot  be,  shall 
never  be,  a  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  true  to  the  name.  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  we  have  learned  that  truth,  and  that  we  belong  to  a  Church  that 
is  connected  up.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

Every  man  or  woman  who  is  called  to  a  position  of  this  kind 
has  a  great  desire  to  be  guided  and  influenced  by  the  Holy  Spirit.  I 
have  had  a  great  deal  of  experience  during  my  life  in  a  public  way, 
but  never  at  any  time  did  I  feel  more  uncertain  and  doubtful  as  to 
my  success  in  speaking  to  the  people  than  I  do  at  the  present  time. 
I  have  all  kinds  of  experiences  in  talking  to  people.  When  I  thought 
I  had  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  some  of  the  people  did  not  think  so. 
So  that  you  can  never  tell ;  and  if  you  say  there  is  such  a  man  living  upon 
the  earth,  however  inspired  he  may  be,  or  however  good  a  man  he  may 
be,  who  can  please  and  satisfy  all  people,  I  question  whether  that  man 
ever  lived.    I  know  mighty  well  I  am  not  one  of  them. 

Now  my  brethern  and  sisters,  there  is  not  a  man  in  this  vast 
congregation  more  happy  to  be  with  you  than  I  am  today.  I  am  a 
native  of  Utah,  I  was  born  here,  I  have  lived  here,  and  I  have  never 
crossed  the  waters.  I  have  heard  from  time  to  time,  since  our  last 
conference,  some  who  were  non-"Mormons,"  some  who  were  non- 
residents of  Utah,  and  some  of  our  own  rising  generation,  speak  very 
lightly  about  what  President  Brigham  Young  said  when  he  entered 
this  valley,  "This  is  the  place."  Well,  I  am  here  to  say  it  is  the  place, 
and  I  just  came  from  California,  too. 

This  vast  congregation,  as  I  understand  it,  consists  of  represen- 
tatives of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  There  may  be 
representatives,  and  are,  from  every  stake  of  Zion,  and  you  have  come  up 
here  to  be  awakened,  to  be  aroused — not  that  you  are  told  anything 
special  that  you  do  not  already  know.  I  cannot  think  of  a  thing  that 
I  ever  heard  that  will  be  new  to  you ;  but  if  you  can  be  awakened 
and  return  to  your  people  and  arouse  them,  then  this  has  been  a 
great  conference.  I  had  that  feeling  while  I  was  away.  I  have  not 
had  as  much  physical  force  as  I  desire.  I  am  a  little  low  on  vitality. 
I  run  out  of  gasoline  every  little  while. 

Now,  the  brethren  of  the  authorities  have  been  very  kind  to  me ; 
they  have  been  very  considerate,  and  I  am  very  appreciative.  I  have 
a  letter  that  I  value  more  than  gold  and  silver,  signed  by  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church,  and  they  closed  their  letter  to  me  saying:  "You 
have  our  love,  our  confidence  and  our  blessing."  1  do  not  know 
whether  I  am  appreciative,  I  think  I  am.   The  Presidency  never  will 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


know  how  much  good  that  did  me.  Not  that  I  was  in  doubt,  not 
that  I  was  in  uncertainty  about  the  matter,  but  I  love  my  people, 
I  always  say,  God  save  the  people,  for  if  it  were  not  for  people,  we 
would  not  need  this  great  Church.  I  do  not  know  what  God  would 
do  if  he  had  no  people.  I  have  said  it  before,  and  I  say  it  again. 
I  was  with  an  apostle  on  a  trip  in  the  south,  and  we  found  a  bishop 
without  any  people.  He  wept,  and  came  to  the  apostle  to  know  what 
to  do.  "Well  you  will  have  to  stay  here  until  some  people  come  to 
you."  All  the  people  he  had  was  his  wife,  and  anybody  that  can 
preside  over  his  wife,  I  take  my  hat  off  to  him.  So  I  feel  like  that 
good  woman  in  ancient  days  who  said : 

"Whither  thou  goest,  I  will  go ;  and  where  thou  lodgest,  I  will 
lodge:  thy  people  shall  be  my  people,  and  thy  God  my  God."  Why, 
bless  your  hearts,  I  haven't  a  doubt  in  my  mind — I  have  doubts  about 
myself  and  about  others — about  this  work.  I  have  found  God,  God 
answered  my  prayers,  and  God  softened  the  hearts  of  the  people,  and 
they  fed  me  and  they  gave  me  a  place  to  lay  my  head.  It  seems  to 
me  when  I  read  the  scriptures,  that  the  apostles  of  old,  whom  the 
Savior  chose,  were  stupid ;  they  did  not  seem  to  understand  nor  com- 
prehend what  the  Savior  was  trying  to  teach,  just  as  some  of  our 
people  are.  They,  the  people,  seem  to  be  stupid,  they  seem  not  to 
understand.  Finally  these  apostles  were  taken  out,  after  the  Savior  had 
completed  his  labors,  and  he  lifted  up  his  hands  and  blessed  them, 
and  he  told  them:  "Nevertheless  I  tell  you  the  truth;  Tt  is  expedient 
for  you  that  I  go  away:  for  if  I  go  not  away,  the  Comforter  will 
not  come  unto  you ;  but  if  I  depart,  I  will  send  him  unto  you."  And 
he  spoke  to  them  again, — "Howbeit  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is 
come,  he  will  guide  you  into  all  truth :  *  *  *  *  and  he  will  show 
you  things  to  come." 

That  is  the  same  Spirit,  the  same  guiding  Spirit  that  our  elders 
have :  these  young  "kid-boys"  that  you  are  sending  out  all  over  the 
world.  They  are  blessed  and  set  apart,  and  that  Spirit  is  with  them. 
I  remember  when  I  was  presiding  over  the  Southern  States  mission : 
for  two  years  of  that  time  I  brought  home  two  emigrations  a  year,  and 
when  I  went  to  the  President's  office  to  report,  that  great  Prophet, 
the  President  of  the  Church,  Wilford  Woodruff,  who  was  interested  in 
me,  said :  "Brother  Kimball,  sit  down  a  minute."  We  only  had  a 
few  minutes — it  didn't  take  five  minutes.  He  told  me  more  than  once: 
"Now,  Brother  Kimball,  I  have  had  visions,  I  have  had  revelations, 
I  have  seen  angels,  but  the  greatest  of  all  is  that  still  small  voice." 
Any  elder  who  has  gone  out  and  kept  the  commandments  of  God, 
knows  he  has  heard  that  word  behind  him  saying:  "This  is  the  way, 
walk  ye  in  it,  when  you  turn  to  the  right  and  when  you  turn  to  the 
left." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  not  disposed  to  occupy  any  more 
of  your  time.  I  love  God's  people,  I  am  willing  to  live  and  die  with 
God's  people.    Come  weal  or  woe,  come  life  or  death.    I  have  a  prayer 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


71 


that  I  offer  sometimes  when  I  walk  by  the  wayside,  and  I  say :  "I  now 
place  myself  and  all  my  affairs" — I  haven't  got  any  affairs  however — 
"in  the  kind  care  and  keeping  of  the  Father,  with  a  loving  trust, 
knowing  that  all  things  are  working  for  my  best  good."  I  am  willing 
to  follow  God's  leading,  even  though  it  may  sometimes  seem  hard- 
to  do  so.  I  am  blessed  in  all  of  my  labors  because  the  Father  gives 
to  me  of  his  Spirit  to  guide  and  direct  me  in  every  situation.  Like 
you,  I  have  committed  many  blunders ;  like  thousands  of  people,  tragedy 
comes  to  our  homes  without  any  fault  of  ours;  but  we  love  our  chil- 
dren, and  I  am  now  learning  to  pray :  "O  God  the  eternal  Father,  I  thank 
thee  that  the  children  thou  gavest  me  are  thy  children." 

God  bless  you.  I  know  this  work  is  true,  and  I  know,  if  I  know 
anything,  that  all  the  keys  and  the  powers  and  the  authority  that  were 
vested  in  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  from  God  the  eternal  Father  and 
his  messengers,  were  conferred  upon  Brigham  Young,  upon  my  father 
and  other  apostles,  upon  the  present  president  of  the  Church  and  the 
apostles.  So  all  we  need  to  do,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  to  work  for 
salvation — the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  the  children  of  men,  and  as  my 
father  said :  "If  you  are  saved,  no  one  will  be  more  surprised  than 
you  are."  Now  the  Lord  bless  you,  in  the  name  and  through  the 
power  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  Jr. 

(President  of  the  Canada  Mission) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  if  there  ever  was  a  time  in  my  life 
that  I  desired  to  be  guided  and  directed  by  the  light  and  power  of  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  it  is  the  present.  This  is  the  largest  congregation 
of  people  that  I  have  ever  stood  in  the  presence  of,  and  I  assure  you 
that  I  feel  my  weakness.  Still,  at  the  same  time,  with  your  faith  and 
prayers  I  desire  to  leave  with  you  my  humble  testimony  concerning 
the  divinity  of  this  great  and  mighty  work  that  has  come  to  us  in  this 
day  and  time. 

There  is  a  saying  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  the  things  of 
God  are  of  deep  import,  and  only  by  careful  and  ponderous  considera- 
tion and  experience  can  we  find  them  out.  "Thou  must  commune  with 
God."  If  ever  a  truth  has  come  into  my  life,  it  has  been  this  truth, 
during  the  last  year  or  more  since  I  have  been  engaged  in  missionary 
work  in  the  world.  I  know  that  in  order  to  be  successful  in  the  deliv- 
ering of  this  great  and  mighty  message,  one  must  commune  with  God. 
One  must  come  very  near  to  him,  must  feel  his  power  and  his  influ- 
ence in  unfolding  this  message  of  truth  to  the  hearts  of  the  children 
of  men  in  the  world ;  and,  if  I  am  any  judge  of  conditions  as  they  come 
under  our  supervision  in  the  mission  field,  I  am  convinced  that  in  order 
to  convert  mankind  to  this  great  message  of  truth,  one  must  be  en- 
dowed with  the  Spirit  of  God,  which  comes  through  humble  and  sin- 
cere prayer  or  communion  with  God. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


You  know  when  Christ  had  had  some  dealings  with  the  Pharisees 
and  Sadducees,  and  he  had  asked  his  disciples  concerning-  what  men 
thought  of  him ;  some  of  them  told  him  that  the  people  around  about 
thought  he  was  John  the  Baptist,  or  Elias,  or  Jeremias  or  one  of  the 
Prophets.  He  turned  to  them  and  said :  "But  whom  say  ye  that  I 
am?"  And  you  will  recall  that  Peter  answered  the  question  by  say- 
ing: "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God."  Observe  how 
positive  and  direct  this  question  is.  I  believe  that  in  the  question  which 
Christ  put  to  his  disciples,  is  contained  a  power  that  brings  home  a 
relationship  between  us  and  God,  our  eternal  Father,  so  much  so  that 
if  the  question  were  put  to  us  in  the  same  way  as  it  was  put  to  Peter, 
and  the  apostles,  it  would  need  the  same  quality  of  inspiration  that 
Peter  had  when  he  told  the  Savior  that  he  was  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  the  living  God,  in  order  for  us  to  know  also  that  he  is  the  Savior 
of  mankind. 

You  will  recall  that  in  addition  to  this  question,  Christ  said  to 
Peter:  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona,  for  flesh  and  blood  have 
not  revealed  it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  Upon 
this  rock  will  I  build  my  Church  and  the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it."  I  desire  to  call  your  attention  to  the  power  there  is  in 
this  statement  of  the  Christ.  So  positive  is  it,  that  he  told  Peter  that 
there  was  no  question  as  to  the  origin  of  Peter's  information  regarding 
this  definite  truth  concerning  him.  I  feel,  this  afternoon,  that  not  only 
we,  who  comprise  the  Church,  are  built  upon  this  rock  of  revelation, 
but  in  order  to  know  within  our  own  selves  the  divinity  of  this  work 
individually,  we  must  be  guided  and  prompted  by  that  spirit  of  revela- 
tion that  Peter  enjoyed  when  he  gave  answer  to  the  question  put  to 
him  by  the  Christ.  I  know  by  experience  that  in  order  to  have  burn- 
ing in  our  hearts  a  testimony  of  the  Living  God,  we  must  build  upon 
this  principle  of  revelation  which  comes  to  us  through  our  communion 
with  God. 

I  bear  my  testimony  to  you,  this  afternoon,  that  I  know,  as  I 
know  that  I  breathe  the  breath  of  life,  that  God  lives,  and  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  Cod  in  the  flesh.  I  know  as  I  know 
that  I  live  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  that 
through  him  has  come  to  us  this  great  and  mighty  work,  this  great 
scheme  of  life  and  salvation.  T  have  found  in  the  unfolding  of  this 
scheme  of  life  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  that  when  I  have  been  humble 
and  prayerful,  and  have  appreciated  what  it  means  to  get  close  to 
God,  the  words  which  I  have  uttered  have  sunk  into  the  hearts 
of  men  and  women  until  they  have  become  converted  to  this  truth. 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  power  of  revelation  is 
in  this  Church.  I  know  that  President  Grant  is  a  Prophet  of  God.  It 
has  been  made  known  to  me,  and  I  do  pray  God.  my  eternal  Father, 
that  he  will  bless  us  with  inspiration,  that  we  will  unite  ourselves  to- 
gether and  pray  as  we  have  never  prayed  before,  in  our  lives,  that  this 
work  will  be  perpetuated ;  and  when  that  time  comes  that  we  shall  be 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


73 


called  to  meet  our  God,  it  will  be  said  of  us :  "Well  done,  thou  good 
and  faithful  servant,  enter  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord." 

God  bless  the  testimonies  that  have  been  given  at  this  conference 
for  our  good  and  for  the  glory  of  God  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

(President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission) 

I  presume  that  the  time  will  never  come  when  all  of  the  people 
of  this  country  or  any  other  country  will  always  speak  good  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Such  was  the  experience 
of  Christ  in  the  early  days  when  he  established  his  Church  upon  the 
earth.  Such  was  the  experience  of  his  apostles,  the  experience  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  the  experience  of  his  people,  as  they  have  tried  to  live 
lives  of  usefulness  and  righteousness  upon  the  earth.  It  is,  however, 
gratifying  as  I  travel  among  the  people,  to  find  that  there  is  a  spirit 
of  kindliness  towards  the  Church,  a  spirit  that  is  being  generated 
among  the  men  of  the  country,  especially  among  the  business  men, 
of  tolerance  and  of  good  will  towards  the  members  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  always  glad  when  people 
are  willing  to  listen  to  our  explanation  of  the  gospel,  and  pleased 
when  they  speak  well  of  this  great  Western  community  of  which  we 
are  a  part.  I  delight  in  hearing  the  favorable  expressions  that  are 
made  in  regard  to  our  people. 

I  notice  on  our  streets  and  in  our  stores,  signs  which  say:  "Boost 
for  Utah."  We  could  say  the  same  thing  about  Idaho,  Wyoming, 
Arizona  or  Canada.  I  am  glad  that  we  are  desirous  of  boosting  for 
this  great  western  country  of  ours,  because  it  is  a  good  country  and 
contains  a  splendid  class  of  men  and  women. 

Our  missionaries  are  out  in  the  world ;  and  I  know  of  no  greater 
boosters.  It  is  true  that  they  are  out  preaching  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  but  while  they  are  doing  it,  they  cannot  forget  their  mountain 
home,  they  cannot  forget  the  hills  and  the  plains  and  the  streams 
of  running  water ;  they  cannot  forget  how  God  has  blessed  this  coun- 
try of  ours,  and  they  are  always  telling  the  people  of  the  glories  of  the 
same;  In  no  instance  do  they  express  "if's"  or  "but's"  about  any  of 
the  people  of  this  country  of  ours.  They  forget  some  of  our  so-called 
"friends"  and  the  things  they  say  about  us,  and  about  our  leaders, 
remembering  the  splendid  men  and  women  not  of  our  faith  who  live 
in  this  great  country  of  ours.  That  is  what  I  like.  I  delight  seeing 
men  and  women  boost  for  their  people  as  well  as  for  their  lands, 
their  herds,  their  hills  and  their  wealth.  I  hope  that  the  "Mormon" 
people  will  always  speak  well  of  their  country  and  of  the  people  in 
the  places  in  which  they  live. 

I  hope  the  world  will  permit  us  to  direct  our  own  Church  as 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


other  people  are  permitted  to  direct  their  churches.  I  hope  they  will 
let  us  interpret  the  doctrines  of  our  faith  in  the  way  we  want 
to  interpret  them,  the  same  privilege  being  given  to  others.  If 
they  will  do  this  we  can  unite  with  them,  and  they  with  us,  and  we 
will  go  on  and  make  this  country  one  of  the  most  splendid  places  to 
live  in  on  the  face  of  the  earth. 

These  men  whom  we  meet  from  time  t>  time  speak  well  of  the 
Church  because  of  the  manner  in  which  it  has  built  up  the  country. 
They  point  to  our  meeting  houses,  they  point  to  our  public  places, 
they  say :  "You  believe  in  your  Church  because  you  are  going'  to  stay, 
and  you  build  well.  You  believe  in  your  country  as  a  great  place 
to  live  in  and  you  take  part  in  the  civic  life  of  your  communities." 
They  say,  "We  like  the  kindliness  and  the  courtesy  that  is  extended 
to  us  through  the  Bureau  of  Information."  This  Bureau  is  one  of 
the  most  wonderful  institutions  we  have  of  boosting  for  the  coun- 
try and  the  people  and  the  things  we  have.  As  we  go  from  place  to 
place  we  are  told  of  the  kind  treatment  and  courtesy  shown  to  the 
people  when  they  visited  here.  They  admire  the  way  we  take  care  of 
our  young  people  in  their  recreational  and  their  spiritual  life;  they 
admire  the  way  we  bring  them  together  and  teach  them  the  word 
of  God,  setting  them  examples  which  they  can  follow,  thereby  be- 
coming not  only  good  members  of  the  Church,  but  clean,  fine,  patriotic 
American  citizens,  who  love  their  country  and  are  willing  to  stand 
by  it  in  every  emergency.  These  young  people  of  ours  are  a  splendid 
people,  and  they  come  out  into  the  world,  and  by  the  spirit  and  power 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  they  bear  testimony  to  the  world;  and 
kindle  a  desire  in  people  to  know  something  more  about  this  great 
"Mormon"  people  living  in  this  Rocky  Mountain  district.  Above  all, 
they  impress  their  hearers  with  our  sincerity.  As  has  been  said  of 
Christ,  he  spoke  as  one  having  authority,  so  say  they  of  the  boys  and 
the  girls  and  the  men  and  the  women  who  go  out  into  the  world 
and  visit  among  them — that  they  speak  as  men  and  women  having 
authority  to  speak  for  God  upon  the  earth. 

May  this  good  spirit  stay  with  us,  may  we  live  lives  of  usefulness 
and  righteousness  upon  the  earth,  and  then  God's  work  shall  grow 
and  we  shall  become  a  greater  people  and  a  better  people.  May  God 
help  us  to  do  this  and  to  serve  him  all  the  days  of  our  lives,  I  humbly 
ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  S.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  while  I  speak  that  I  may 
have  a  portion  of  the  spirit  that  has  thus  far  characterized  this  con- 
ference ;  namely,  the  spirit  of  instruction. 

I  have  the  honor  to  preside  over  the  Northwestern  States  mission 


ELDER  BRIG  HAM  S.  YOUNG 


75 


and  it  is  indeed  an  honor  and  an  opportunity.  I  have  the  honor  to 
have  the  association  of  young  men  and  women  who  have  been  sent 
out  into  the  world  to  proclaim  the  truth,  and  they  are  proclaiming  it. 
They  are  learning  its  value  and  power.  I  was  very  much  impressed  by 
a  statement  in  the  prayer  of  Brother  John  W.  Hart.  He  said  in  the 
course  of  his  petition:  "Magnify,  O  God,  the  missionaries  in  the 
eyes  of  the  world."  They  are  being  magnified,  brethren  and  sisters, 
God  hears  these  young  men  and  women.  He  knows  the  purity  of 
their  lives,  and  you  find  it  expressed  in  the  teachings  of  the 
Gospel  as  they  give  them  to  the  various  congregations  and  people  with 
whom  they  come  in  contact. 

We  have,  in  the  Northwestern  States  mission,  a  mission  among  the 
Indians,  established  by  President  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  when  he  presided 
over  the  Northwestern  States  mission.  I  have  the  pleasure  and  priv- 
ilege of  visiting  that  little  mission  every  three  months.  We  conduct 
there  an  Indian  school,  and  the  school  superintendent  of  the  reservation 
told  me  a  few  days  ago  that  we  had  one  of  the  best  schools  on  the 
reservation.  We  know  that  in  some  of  those  schools  conducted  by 
other  churches  it  is  necessary  for  them  to  turn  the  key  on  their  pupils 
in  order  that  they  shall  be  present  when  school  is  called  for  the  fol- 
lowing morning.  That  is  not  true  in  our  school.  The  children  love 
their  teachers ;  they  are  as  fond,  almost  it  amounts  to  adoration,  of 
their  teachers  as  is  the  feeling  between  the  white  people  and  the 
teachers  of  civilization  whom  they  dearly  love.  There  is  a  great  work 
to  be  done  among  the  Lamanites,  and  these  good  men  and  women 
who  are  teaching  the  children  of  the  Indians,  are  laying  a  foundation 
for  a  future  work  that  shall  be  gigantic  in  its  scope. 

This  brother,  whom  I  have  mentioned,  asked  that  the  missionaries 
might  be  magnified  in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  and  my  plea  to  you 
is  that  the  missionaries  on  their  return  to  their  homes  may  be  magnified 
in  the  eyes  of  the  people  from  whom  they  come.  These  boys  and  girls 
who  have  gone  into  the  world  and  have  acquired  a  knowledge  and  a 
testimony  of  the  gospel  are  full  of  its  spirit,  they  are  desirous  of 
spreading  a  knowledge  of  God,  and  it  is  as  desirable  that  that  knowl- 
edge should  be  spread  at  home  as  abroad ;  and  I  appeal  to  the  bishops, 
to  presidents  of  stakes,  to  the  men  and  women  composing  our  com- 
munities, that  they  will  foster,  encourage,  and  help,  and  that  they 
will  see  to  it  that  these  young  men  and  women  have  the  same  op- 
portunity to  preach  the  gospel  at  home  as  they  have  had  while  they 
have  been  abroad.  We,  the  presidents  of  missions,  are  endeavoring 
to  teach  them  to  be,  as  Bishop  Nibley  said  this  morning,  courteous 
gentlemen  and  ladies.  We  are  endeavoring  educationally,  to  give  them 
the  best  that  we  possess.  They  will  come  back  to  their  communities 
rich  with  the  glorious  influence  that  they  have  imbibed  on  their  mis- 
sions. Let  us,  brethren  and  sisters,  perpetuate  the  missionary  spirit, 
that  our  boys  and  girls  possess  when  they  come  home,  for  I  testify  to 
you  that  they  are  the  dearest,  most  valued,  the  most  beautiful  of 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


associates,  and  they  find  a  place  in  the  hearts  of  their  mission  presidents 
second  only  to  our  own  children. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  kindly,  to  magnify  our  own  boys  and 
girls  in  our  own  community,  as  we  have  prayed  that  they  be  magnified 
in  the  eyes  of  the  world,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  tenor  solo  entitled,  "The  Plains  of  Peace"  was  sung  by  David 
Cook. 

ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

( Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Eastern 
States  Mission) 

During  the  sessions  of  this  conference  you  have  heard  from 
many  lands,  and  from  many  parts  of  our  own  country.  I  am  wondering 
what  message  I  can  bring  to  you  from  the  East.  Incidentally  I  may 
say  to  those  of  you  who  are,  by  the  ties  of  kindred,  interested  in 
the  young  men  and  women  who  comprise  the  Eastern  States  mission, 
that  it  is  a  general  time  of  health  in  our  mission,  and  that  there  pre- 
vails a  very  fine  spirit  among  them,  but  that,  of  course,  is  not  the 
message  I  had  in  mind  when  I  was  wondering  what  message  I  might 
bring  to  this  conference  from  the  East.  At  present  it  seems  to 
me  to  be  a  good  starting  point  for  a  message  to  repeat  a  scripture 
with  which  you  all  are  very  familiar,  namely: 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not,  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 

"But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing  wavering;  for  he  that  wavereth  is . 
like  a  wave  of  the  sea,  driven  with  the  wind  and  tossed.    For  let  not  that 
man  think  he  shall  receive  anything  of  the  Lord." 

Some  of  you,  perhaps,  will  recognize  that  as  the  cornerstone  of 
the  history  of  this  last  and  new  dispensation  of  the  gospel.  It  was 
the  .scripture  which  appealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  great 
power,  conveying  to  his  soul  a  most  solemn  message.  For,  at  the  time 
he  came  to  contemplate  it,  in  the  spring  of  1820,  he  was  very  much 
perplexed  because  of  the  confusion  existing  everywhere  concerning 
religion. 

In  the  city  of  Palmyra,  near  the  center  of  it,  there  are  four 
corners,  facing  one  another.  On  each  stands  a  church,  and  these 
churches  existed  there  one  hundred  years  ago.  The  ministers  of  those 
four  churches  united  in  what  was  called  a  "Ujnion  Service" ;  and  for 
weeks  a  very  earnest  kind  of  Christian  propaganda  was  carried  on, 
a  revival  meeting,  and  great  interest  was  aroused  there  and  throughout 
the  surrounding  country  in  religion.  All  went  well,  many  people  were 
drawn  to  contemplate  the  religious  life,  and  much  good  seemed  to  have 
been  accomplished,  until  the  time  came  when  the  new  converts  were 
to  file  off  to  the  respective  churches  of  their  choice,  and  then  strife, 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


77 


division,  and  confusion  confounded,  seemed  to  prevail.  This  very 
greatly  distracted  the  mind  of  our  Prophet.  The  questions  under  con- 
sideration then  were  such  as  these — something  about  the  decrees  of 
God :  Would  people  be  .saved  by  the  free  grace  of  God,  and  the  free 
will  of  men  combined,  and  would  they  thus  be  drawn  to  the  feet  of 
the  Christ?  Or  had  God  pre-determined  before  the  foundation  of  the 
earth  the  exact  number  of  those  who  should  be  saved,  and  had  so 
definitely  fixed  upon  the  number  that  it  could  not  be  increased  nor 
diminished  by  any  human  effort,  by  any  personal  desire,  or  search- 
ing or  seeking  after  righteousness?  Those  who  were  to  be  saved 
were  to  be  saved  by  the  pre-determined  will  of  God,  without  any  act 
of  their  own.  On  the  other  hand  it  was  just  as  explicitly  known 
who  would  be  reprobate,  and  they  could  not  escape  by  any  means  of 
repentance  or  other  device  whatsoever.  The  question  was  discussed 
as  to  whether  this  pre-destination  of  men,  to  salvation  or  destruction, 
affected  infants  as  well  as  adults.  A  division  existed,  some  claim- 
ing that  all  infants  dying  in  infancy  would  be  saved,  and  others  claimed 
that  only  those  whom  the  decree  of  God  had  fixed  for  salvation 
would  be  saved.  Would  the  heathen  be  saved?  That  was  a  ques- 
tion debated.  Was  baptism  essential  unto  salvation?  Would  un- 
baptized  infants  be  saved,  or  were  they  among  the  number  that  it  would 
be  impossible  to  save,  baptized  or  not?  And  so  the  controversy  went 
on.  Time  will  not  permit  to  go  into  all  the  details  of  it,  but  this 
perhaps  will  indicate  the  nature  of  some  of  the  discussions. 
None  of  those  questions  were  settled  by  the  debates  which  occurred, 
but  you  have  been  hearing  very  little  about  thejn  for  a  long  time. 
People  have  not  been  discussing  them.  But  the  point  I  desire  to  bring 
to  your  attention  is  this,  that  notwithstanding  the  debate  on  those 
particular  questions  have  ceased,  Christendom  is  not  yet  united.  The 
confusion  and  divisions  have  broken  out  in  new  places. 

There  is  a  remarkable  prophecy  in  St.  Peter's  writings  to  this 
effect: 

"Prophecy  came  not  in  olden  time  by  the  will  of  man;  but  holy  men  of 
God  spake  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

"But  there  were  false  prophets  also  among  the  people,  even  as  there 
shall  be  false  teachers  among  you,  who  privily  shall  bring  in  damnable 
heresies,  even  denying  the  Lord  that  bought  them,  and  bring  upon  them- 
selves swift  destruction.  And  many  shall  follow  their  pernicious  ways, 
by  reason  of  whom  the  way  of  truth  shall  be  evil  spoken  of." 

From  the  early  days  of  Christianity  till  now  there  have  been 
tho.se  who  have  denied  the  Deity  of  Christ ;  but  it  seems  to  me  that 
these  clays  of  ours  have  been  especially  reserved  for  this  particular 
heresy  to  reach  its  full  development ;  namely,  the  "denial  of  the  Lord 
who  bought  them,"  "bought  them"  by  the  price  of  his  own  suffering, 
and  by  his  own  precious  blood ;  for  never  in  the  history  of  Christianity 
has  there  been  such  a  denial  of  the  Lord  as  there  is  at  the  present  time, 

This  recent  controversy  first  arose  about  two  years  ago,  in  Eng- 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


land,  when  the  Reverend  Hastings  Rashdall,  the  distinguished  dean 
of  Carlyle,  at  the  Modern  Churchman's  Congress,  held  in  Cambridge, 
declared  that  "Jesus  Christ  never  claimed  divinity  for  himself,  and 
was  in  the  fullest  sense  a  man,  with  not  merely  a  human  body,  but 
with  human  soul,  intellect  and  will."  "Again,"  said  he,  "Jesus  may 
have  allowed  himself  to  be  called  the  Messiah,  but  never  in  any  of 
his" — mark  the  language — "critically,  well-attested  sayings  was  there 
anything* which  suggests  that  his  conscious  relation  to  God  was  other 
than  that  of  any  man  toward  God."  Then  in  respect  of  the  fourth 
gospel,  as  being  outside  of  the  Christ's  "critically,  well-attested  sayings," 
the  dean  remarked :  "That  the  speeches  attributed  to  Christ  in  the 
Fourth  Gospel,"  St.  John's  Gospel,  "where  they  go  beyond  the  char- 
acter of  Jesus  as  portrayed  in  the  synoptic  gospels,  namely,  Matthew, 
Mark  and  Luke,  cannot  be  regarded  as  authentic  history."  That 
was  the  report  of  his  speech  at  the  time,  when  this  agitation  first 
began.  Then  about  a  year  later,  namely,  in  January,  1923,  in  our 
own  country,  the  United  States,  the  Reverend  Percy  S.  Grant,  rector 
of  the  Church  of  the  Ascension,  in  New  York  City,  preaching  in 
defense  of  the  declaration  he  had  made  the  Sunday  before,  namely, 
"when  Christ  was  on  earth  he  did  not  possess  the  power  of  God," 
remarked :  "This  is  certainly  the  teaching  of  the  first  three  gospels." 
So  that  Dr.  Grant,  like  the  Dean  of  Carlyle,  sets  aside  the  testimony 
of  St.  John.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  it  would  not  be  difficult  to  sustain 
the  Deity  of  the  Christ  from  the  first  three  Go.spels,  usually  spoken 
of  as  the  synoptic  Gospels ;  and  you  may  leave  out  St.  John's  Gos- 
pel, and  in  those  three  gospels  this  great  truth  concerning  the  Christ 
is  emphasized,  namely  that  he  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  it  follows  that 
being  the  Son  of  God,  then  God — God  of  God ;  Light  of  Light,  of 
the  same  substance  or  essence  with  the  Father;  of  the  same  attributes. 
It  is  only  thought  necessary  to  establish  the  truth  of  Jesus  Christ  being 
the  Son  of  God  to  make  him  Deity;  of  the  same  essence  with  the 
Father,  as  well  as  being  the  "brightness  of  his  glory"  and  the  ex- 
press image  of  his  person.  And  that  is  all  clearly  set  forth  in  the 
synoptic  gospels. 

And  now,  for  a  peculiar  reason,  I  want  to  call  your  attention  to 
this  thought.  This  controversy  goes  beyond  the  testimonies  of  the 
witnesses  of  the  New  Testament,  and  brings  out  a  peculiar  feature 
in  our  own  special  message  to  the  world.  If  you  will  recall  the  very 
careful  words  of  these  two  critics  Messrs.  Rashdall  and  Grant,  the 
Diety  of  the  Christ,  you  will  have  noted  perhaps  that  they  hold  that: 
"No  critical,  well-attested  saying  of  the  Christ  tends  to  establish  his 
Deity."  Well,  that  simply  means  that  the  so-called  "modern  criticism," 
eliminates  and  throws  to  the  winds  the  testimony  of  Christ's  apostles 
in  Judea, — the  testimony  that  Jesus  is  indeed  the  Christ,  the  Son  of 
God,  born  of  a  virgin,  and  God's  Only  Begotten  Son  in  the  flesh. 

The  note  now  and  then  occurs  in  the  comments  that  are  made 
on  this  great  controversy,  that:    "You  have  got  yet  to  consider  the 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS  79 

i 

authenticity  and  the  credibility  of  the  New  Testament  documents. 
That  is  the  thing  to  which  I  wish  to  call  your  attention.  Unto  Nephi, 
the  first  Nephi,  were  given  some  very  great  visions  concerning  the 
life  and  the  mission  of  the  Christ,  before  he  came  in  the  flesh;  and 
among  other  things  he  saw  that  the  Gentile  races  upon  this  North 
American  continent  would  have  the  testimony  of  the  Hebrew  prophets 
among  them  (the  Old  Testament)  ;  and  also  the  testimony  of  the 
"Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Lamb"  (the  New  Testament).  He  saw  that 
these  books  would  be  mutilated  and  corrupted :  that  the  Gentiles  would 
go  into  great  darkness  and  unbelief  because  of  this  mutilation  of  the  word 
of  God.  Then  he  saw,  in  vision,  circulating  among  the  people  other 
records,  one  of  which  was  to  be  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  the  seed 
of  this  man  Nephi.  That  other  sacred  books  were  to  be  circulated  in 
the  land,  and  these  second  books,  meaning  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
the  record  of  the  Nephite  people,  and  the  revelations  of  God  in  this 
new  dispensation,  clearly  recognized  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  also  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, — these  records  would  establish 
the  truth  of  the  record  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Lamb  of  God, 
Hence  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  holds  in  its 
hands,  and  is  commissioned  to  use  these  other  holy  scriptures  brought 
forth  in  this  chosen  land,  speaking  from  the  dust  of  "Cumorah's 
lonely  hill,"  for  the  sleeping  nations  of  the  American  Continent :  and  the 
living  word  of  God  in  this  age,  as  contained  in  the  revelations  found  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  brought 
forth  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  are  here  to  correct  the  errors  of 
those  who  would  throw  out  of  the  reckoning  the  word  of  God  as 
found  in  the  record  of  the  "Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Lamb,"  the  New 
Testament;  they  are  here  to  affirm,  with  all  the  strength  that  comes 
from  these  volumes  of  witnesses, — this  cloud  of  witnesses — that  Jesus 
is  indeed  the  Christ;  that  he  is  the  Creator,  not  only  of  our  own 
world,  but  of  many  worlds.  (Heb.  1:1,  2;  St.  John  1:1-4).  Also 
that  He  is  the  upholding  and  the  sustaining  power  of  all  things  ;  that, 
as  pointed  out  so  beautifully  in  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells'  remarks.  He 
is  the  Vital  Force,  that  "quickeneth  all  things";  also  that  he  is  the 
Intelligence-inspiring  Power  of  God's  universe;  also  that  He  is  the 
Love-manifested  Power  of  God's  universe:  for  the  one  great  thing 
above  all  others  in  the  mission  of  the  Christ  was  to  give  assurance 
and  demonstration  of  the  Love  of  God  for  the  inhabitants  of  the 
earth.  As  Jesus  himself  contemplated  this  his  mission  among  men,  he 
voiced  the  assurance  that — 

"I,  if  I  be  lifted  up  from  the  earth,  will  draw  all  men  unto  me." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  our  mission  to  stem  the  tide  of  unbelief 
that  is  in  the  world,  to  answer  the  Christ's  question  on  one  occasion 
— when  he  the  Son  of  man  comes,  shall  He  find  faith  in  the  earth?" 
In  the  name  of  God,  yes !  For  he  has  provided  the  means  of  main- 
taining faith  in  Him  as  Creator,  as  Sustaining  Power  of  the  universe; 
as  Vital  Force,  as  Intelligence-inspiring  Power,  as  Love-manifested 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Power,  and  he  has  organized  his  Church  in  the  earth,  no  more  to  be 
destroyed,  to  maintain  this  faith  in  the  earth.  And  when  the  Christ 
shall  come  in  the  clouds  of  heaven,  with  power  and  great  glory, 
attended  by  the  host  of  Saints  from  heaven,  the  host  of  Saints  here 
on  earth,  possessed  of  true  faith  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  Sovereign, 
Lord  and  King,  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  all  things  that 
in  them  are;  the  Savior  of  men,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  very 
Son  of  God,  "the  Eternal  God,"  to  use  the  Book  of  Mormon  phrase, 
"manifesting  himself  unto  all  nations" — these,  the  Saints  possessed 
of  this  faith  in  the  earth,  shall  welcome  the  Christ  and  the  hosts  of 
Saints  from  heaven,  with  shouts  of  great  joy  and  faith. 

The  thought  I  wish  to  leave  with  you,  and  my  purpose  in  quoting 
the  text, — "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God  that  giveth 
to  all  men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not,  and  it  shall  be  given  him" — was 
to  emphasize  the  fact  that  there  is  still  great  need,  in  the  light  of  the 
present  controversy  about  the  Deity  of  Christ,  to  make  use  of  this 
prayer;  for  the  controversies  of  today,  and  the  confusion  resulting 
from  them,  are  just  as  perplexing  as  the  confusion  of  a  hundred  years 
ago.  God  bless  the  Saints,  and  all  who  would  know  the  truth,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

i 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day 
of  salvation." 

Elder  Oliver  H.  Budge,  president  of  the  Logan  stake  of  Zion, 
pronounced  the  benediction. 

Conference  was  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  SESSION 

Conference  opened  Sunday  morning  at  10  o'clock,  April  6,  1924. 
All  the  seats  in  the  tabernacle  were  occupied  and  every  available  stand- 
ing space  in  the  building.  Many  were  unable  to  gain  admission. 
Through  a  radio  device  many  who  were  gathered  at  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation and  at  the  Barratt  Hall,  listened  through  radio  instru- 
ments to  the  proceedings.  Besides,  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  there  was  an 
overflow  meeting  at  which  Elder  W.  A.  Hyde  of  the  Pocatello  stake 
presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  com- 
muned with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Moroni  Lazenby,  president  of  the  North  Sevier  stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

A  duet  and  chorus  was  rendered  by  the  choir  and  Mary  Lindsay 
and  Cannon  Lund,  entitled,  "An  angel  from  on  high." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  cannot  express  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  gratitude 
that  I  feel  to  our  heavenly  Father,  and  the  joy  which  I  experience 
as  1  look  upon  this  great  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have 
assembled  in  general  conference  to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord.  It 
is  a  renewed  evidence  to  me.  that  as  the  work  of  the  Lord  draws 
nearer  its  consummation,  the  invisible  forces  of  the  spirit  world  are 
operating  upon  the  hearts  of  the  people,  drawing  them  nearer  to- 
gether, uniting  them  in  faith,  and  preparing  them  for  the  great  events 
which  are  before  us,  even  at  our  very  doors. 

THE  MULTITUDE  COMPARED  WITH  AN  ANCIENT  GATHERING 

As  we  stood  up  for  the  opening  hymn,  I  thought  of  these  words 
which  are  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  King  Benjamin  had 
sent  out  an  invitation  to  the  Nephite  people  to  gather  together  at 
the  temple  in  the  land  of  Zarahemla.  When  they  assembled  it  was 
discovered  that  the  temple  was  not  large  enough  to  contain  all  of 
the  people,  so  he  ordered  a  tower  erected  upon  the  outside,  that  he 
might  address  them  from  that  spot.  But  still  the  people  could  not  hear ; 
so  many  had  assembled.  So  he  ordered  that  the  words  which  he 
spoke  be  written  and  distributed  among  them,  in  order  that  they 
might  all  know  the  things  which  he  was  about  to  declare.  This 
house  is  filled  to  overflowing  with  people.    The  Assembly  Hall  is 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


full,  and  there  are  still  multitudes  upon  the  outside  who  cannot  be 
accommodated  in  either  of  these  buildings. 

PROCEEDINGS  OF  A  CHARACTER  TO  STIMULATE  FAITH 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  conference,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
have  been  of  a  character,  I  am  sure,  to  stimulate  faith,  to  cause  our 
minds  to  revert  to  the  simple  but  fundamental  doctrines  of  the  gos- 
pel by  which  we  are  kept  in  harmony  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

AUTHORITY  CONFERRED  UPON  THE  APOSTLES 

I  thought  yesterday,  as  the  meetings  progressed,  of  these  words 
which  are  recorded  here  in  the  last  chapter  of  St.  Matthew : 

"Then  the  eleven  disciples  went  away  into  Galilee,  into  a  mountain 
where  Jesus  had  appointed  them. 

"And  when  they  saw  him,  they  worshiped  him;  but  some  doubted" 
(for  this  was  after  his  resurrection  from  the  dead). 

"And  Jesus  came  and  spake  unto  them,  saying,  All  power  is  given 
unto  me  in  heaven  and  in  earth. 

"Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded 
you;  and  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world." 

It  was  the  last  .sentence,  expressed  in  these  words  of  the  Redeemer, 
to  which  my  attention  was  particularly  drawn,  "teaching  them  to 
observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded."  and  if  they 
do  this,  "Lo,  I  am  with  you  unto  the  end  of  the  world." 

Two  years  prior  to  the  time  when  this  commission  was  given, 
the  Redeemer  had  called  to  him  the  Twelve  Disciples  whom  he  had 
chosen,  and  instructed  them  to  go  to  the  lost  sheep  of  the  House 
of  Israel,  and  declared  to  them  that  the  kingdom  of  heaven  was  at 
hand.  They  were  to  go,  putting  their  trust  in  the  Lord,  with  the 
promise  that  he  would  protect  them,  would  provide  food  and  clothing 
and  deliver  them  from  the  hands  of  enemies,  who  might  ,seek  to 
harm  them. 

At  the  time  of  his  appearance  to  the  Nephites,  after  his  resur- 
rection from  the  dead,  the  Redeemer  called  twelve  men  upon  whom 
he  conferred  authority  to  call  the  people  to  repentance  and  faith 
in  him,  and  to  baptize  all  who  believed,  for  the  remission  of  sins,  after 
which  he  promised  them  the  Gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

LIKE  AUTHORITY  CONFERRED  UPON  THE  TWELVE  IN  OUR  DAY 

It  is  quite  natural,  then,  and  in  harmony  with  the  well-defined 
order  of  the  Church,  that  with  the  restoration  of  the  work  of  the 
Lord  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  twelve  men  should  be 
chosen  upon  whom  the  apostleship  was  conferred,  and  to  whom  the 
command  of  the  Lord  was  renewed ;  for  he  commanded  these  twe'.ve : 
to  go  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature, 
who  had  not  received  it,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


83 


and  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  conferring  upon  the  bap- 
tized believer,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands. 

So  important  are  these  first  principles  of  the  gospel  that  in  the 
early  days  of  the  Church  the  Lord  commanded  Martin  Harris  that 
he  should  preach  nothing  else. 

THE  ORDINANCE  OF  BAPTISM 

Initiation  into  the  Church  is  an  event  of  tremendous  importance, 
to  one  who  accepts  it.  So  important  was  it  regarded  in  the  primitive 
Church  that  we  are  told  that  the  ordinance  of  baptism  was  administered 
to  none  except  those  who  took  upon  them  the  name  of  Christ,  with  a 
determination  to  serve  him,  and  came  forth  with  broken  hearts  and 
contrite  spirits,  manifesting  to  the  Church  that  they  had  truly  repented 
of  all  of  their  sins.  To  one  who  has  thus  prepared  himself,  the 
ordinance  of  baptism  washes  away  hi,s  sins,  and  he  is  born  to  newness 
of  life.  He  stands  clean  before  the  Lord,  an  heir  to  glory,  exaltation 
and  eternal  life — not  definitely,  but  conditionally ;  for  in  exchange 
for  this  priceless  gift  he  enters  into  covenant  that  he  will  take  upon 
him  in  the  name  of  Christ,  and  always  remember  him  and  keep  the 
commandments  which  he  has  given.  If  we  violate  this  covenant,  it 
were  better  never  to  have  made  it. 

To  be  admitted  into  the  Church,  then,  is  but  to  have  our  feet 
placed  in  the  straight  and  narrow  path  which,  if  we  diligently  pur- 
sue our  way,  will  lead  us  back  to  God  from  whence  we  came.  Having 
been  born  to  newness  of  life,  Latter-day  Saints  should  lay  off  the 
habiliments  of  the  carnal  man,  and  clothe  themselves  in  robes  of 
righteousness,  that  is  to  say,  our  mode  of  life  should  correspond,  in 
all  respects,  with  our  profession  of  faith. 

TO   BE  IN  POSSESSION   OF  THE  SPIRIT  OF   GOD   WE   MUST  PRAY 

In  order  that  we  may  retain  a  remission  of  our  sins,  it  is  neces- 
sary that  we  be  constantly  in  possession  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  medium  through  which  we  obtain  and  retain  his  Spirit  is 
prayer.  Prayer  is  the  outward  act  by  which  we  manifest  our  faith 
in  the  Lord.  It  is  not  the  multiplicity  of  words  which  are  uttered, 
that  brings  the  desired  blessings,  but  the  degree  of  faith  with  which 
we  approach  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven.  It  is  mockery  to  pray 
to  a  being  in  whose  power  to  hear  and  answer  we  have  no  faith, 
as  I  have  often  thought  that  some  men  do  today.  The  Lord,  re- 
ferring to  this  subject,  warned  us  that  when  we  pray  we  are  not  to 
be  like  the  hypocrites  who  love  to  pray  standing  in  the  synagogues 
and  on  the  corners  of  the  streets  that  they  may  be  heard  of  men, 
nor  to  use  vain  repetition,  thinking  to  be  heard  for  our  much  speak- 
ing, neither  are  public  prayers  alone  sufficient,  important  though 
they  are  in  their  time  and  place,  but  we  are  admonished  that  we  should 
pray  in  secret,  and  the  definite  promise  is  made  that  the  prayer  of 
faith,  so  offered,  shall  be  rewarded  openly. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


HUMILITY  SHOULD  CHARACTERIZE  OUR  CONDUCT 

The  doctrine  of  humility,  taught  in  this  lesson  given  us  by  the 
Redeemer,  should  characterize  the  conduct  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  all 
of  the  activities  of  life,  for  he  has  told  us  that  we  should  be  clothed 
upon  with  humility,  for  God  resists  the  proud  and  giveth  grace  to 
the  humble.  And  he  tells  us  that  as  we  wax  stronger  in  humility, 
we  become  firmer  in  the  faith  unto  the  filling  of  our  souls  with  joy. 

Latter-day  Saints  .should  seek  wisdom  and  learn  the  value  of 
righteousness  and  justice;  they  should  patiently  submit  to  persecution 
when  it  is  for  righteousness  sake,  be  slow  to  anger,  quick  to  forgive, 
merciful,  but  always  just.  They  should  be  peacemakers  constantly 
striving  both  by  precept  and  example  to  bring  to  pass  the  universal 
brotherhood  of  man. 

GOOD  WILL  AND  FORGIVENESS  FUNDAMENTAL 

It  is  fundamental  to  the  faith  of  all  creeds  that  man  should 
not  take  the  life  of  his  fellow.  The  Redeemer  went  further  than 
this,  teaching  that  he  who  is  angry  with  his  brother  will  not  be  held 
guiltless.  He  taught  us  that  when  differences  arise  between  brethren, 
they  should  be  settled  quickly,  and  when  once  adjusted,  are  not  to 
be  the  subject  of  further  discussion  or  comment;  that  we  should  be 
men  and  women  of  few  words,  reaching  conclusions  quickly,  but 
wisely,  as  circumstances  may  justify;  making  our  decision  yes  or 
no,  and  let  that  be  the  end  of  controversy. 

The  law  of  Moses  taught  the  doctrine  of  retaliation  for  wrong 
inflicted.  The  Master  teaches  that  we  are  not  to  resist  evil,  but 
patiently  submit  to  the  offences  of  others,  that  we  should  not  only 
love  our  friends,  but  our  enemies  also ;  that  we  should  bless  those 
who  curse  us,  do  good  to  those  who  hate  us,  and  pray  for  those 
who  despitefully  use  us  and  persecute  us — a  thing  not  easy  of  ac* 
complishment ;  but  nevertheless  a  direct  commandment,  and  one  which 
brings  to  the  soul  of  those  who  apply  it  the  satisfaction  of  a  righteous 
act  performed. 

EXERCISE  CHARITY  WITHOUT  OSTENTATION 

In  this  age  of  organized  charity,  when  the  contributions  which 
we  make  to  provide  for  the  necessities  of  those  who  have  not,  are 
advertised  to  the  world,  and  we  love  to  be  known  as  liberal  givers, 
it  is  well  to  turn  again  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  for  he  has  told 
us  that  when  we  give  alms  we  are  to  see  to  it  that  it  be  not  before 
men,  to  be  seen  of  them,  otherwise  we  have  no  reward  of  our  Father 
which  is  in  Heaven ;  that  we  are  not  to  sound  a  trumpet  before  us  as  the 
hypocrites  do,  that  we  may  have  the  honors  of  men,  but  that  we,  when 
we  give  alms,  are  not  to  let  our  left  hand  know  what  our  right  hand 
doeth.  In  other  words,  the  alms  which  we  give  should  be  contributed 
for  the  love  of  giving,  and  with  desire  to  administer  to  the  neces- 
sities of  others,  rather  than  for  the  praise  of  men.    It  was  this,  my 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS 


85 


brethren  and  sisters,  which  made  the  widows  mite  .more  acceptable  to 
the  Lord  than  all  that  others  had  cast  into  the  treasury. 

SEEK  WISDOM  AND  NOT  WEALTH 

Having  become  members  of  the  Church,  taking  upon  us  the 
name  of  Christ,  acknowledging  our  dependence  upon  him  and  enter- 
ing into  covenant  that  we  will  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments, 
the  Lord  has  told  us  that  we  are  not  to  devote  our  energies  to  the 
accumulation  of  wealth,  that  we  shall  not  seek  after  riches,  but  after 
wisdom,  and  those  things  which  bring  eternal  blessings ;  for  he  says 
that  riches  and  the  honors  which  men  bestow  will  canker  the  soul, 
if  not  used  for  the  glory  of  God,  and  that  the  lament  of  the  rich, 
who  have  not  used  their  wealth  for  the  accomplishment  of  good,  will 
be:  "The  harvest  is  over,  the  summer  is  passed,  and  our  souls  are 
not  saved."  Neither  will  poverty  in  itself  bring  blessings.  It  is 
the  poor  who  are  reconciled  to  their  lot,  and  the  rich  who  are  poor 
in  spirit,  with  whom  the  Lord  is  well  pleased.  He  has  admonished 
us  that  we  are  not  to  devote  our  energies  to  the  accumulation  of 
wealth  for  this  reason,  that  we  cannot  devotedly  and  acceptably  serve 
two  Masters.  He  .says  that  we  will  either  neglect  one  or  the  other. 
We  cannot  faithfully,  as  we  should,  serve  both  God  and  Mammon. 
Therefore  he  admonishes  us  that  we  should  lay  up  treasures  in  heaven, 
where  moth  and  rust  do  not  corrupt,  nor  thieves  break  in  and  steal. 

BE  SLOW  TO  RENDER  JUDGMENT  AND  CRITICISM 

The  Lord  has  plainly  told  us  that  we  should  be  wise  and  judicious, 
that  we  should  be  slow  to  render  judgment  or  criticism  of  our  fellows; 
for  he  has  told  us  that  with  the  judgment  which  we  mete  out  to 
others,  we  ourselves  will  be  judged.  How  often,  how  readily,  we 
detect  and  magnify  the  faults  of  our  neighbors,  while  we  overlook 
our  own  imperfections.  How  often  we  seek  to  pull  the  mote  from  the 
eye  of  our  brother,  and  forget  the  beam  which  is  in  our  own.  "There- 
fore," saith  the  Lord,  "judge  not,  and  ye  shall  not  be  judged;  con- 
demn not,  and  ye  shall  not  be  condemned ;  forgive  and  ye  shall  be 
forgiven."  In  other  words,  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  shall  do 
unto  you,  do  ye  even  so  unto  them — an  admonition  of  the  Lord,  carry- 
ing with  it  one  of  the  most  sublime  principles  ever  uttered  by  the 
tongue  of  man. 

FAST  WITH  CHEERFUL  COUNTENANCE 

Fasting  is  a  doctrine  of  the  Church.  Here  again  the  Lord  has 
told  us  that  when  we  fast  we  are  not  to  be  as  the  hypocrites  who 
disfigure  their  faces,  that  they  may  appear  to  the  world  to  fast; 
but  we  are  to  wash  our  faces  and  with  cheerful  countenance  appear 
to  men  not  to  fast;  and  the  definite  promise  is  made  that  the  Lord, 
who  seeth  in  secret,  will  reward  us  openly. 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


honor  marriage;  be  chaste  and  virtuous 

The  marital  relations  of  the  world, — and  to  a  certain  degree  it 
applies  to  the  Church — were  referred  to  yesterday  by  Bishop  Nibley. 
Here  again  is  a  matter  which  is  deserving  of  our  most  careful  at- 
tention and  consideration.  The  fountains  of  life,  designed  by  the 
Creator  for  the  reproduction  of  humankind,  and  sacred  to  the  marital 
relation  only,  are  made  the  plaything  of  faithless,  godless  men  and 
women.  The  holy  bonds  of  matrimony,  the  only  order  which  gives 
proper  sanction  to  the  association  of  the  sexes,  is  entered  into  and  dis- 
solved at  will.  These  conditions  are,  in  my  opinion,  the  most  danger- 
ous menaces  to  our  national  life  which  exists  today.  The  Lord  pleads 
with  us  to  honor  the  association  of  man  and  woman  in  lawful  wed- 
lock, and  makes  plain  to  us  the  penalties  which  are  attached  to  the 
violation  of  laws  of  chastity  and  virtue,  both  in  this  life  and  that  to  come, 
and  appeals  to  us  that  we  shall  observe  these  laws,  which  are  the  crown 
of  matrimony,  and  should  be  held  by  us  as  sacred  as  life  itself. 

WHY  THESE  SIMPLE  DOCTRINES  SHOULD  BE  IMPLICITLY  OBSERVED 

I  have  referred  to  these  simple,  but  indispensable  doctrines  of  the 
Church,  because  it  appears  necessary  to  me  to  do  so.  We  are  living 
in  the  day  referred  to  by  the  Prophet  Isaiah,  who  said  that  the 
nations  should  rush  as  the  rushing  of  mighty  waters,  but  God  would 
rebuke  them. 

I  sometimes  fear,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  this  mad  rush 
for  wealth,  for  power,  for  personal  aggrandizement,  this  age  of  dis- 
honesty in  high  places,  disregard  for  law,  and  indifference  to  virtue, 
and  religion,  that  we  may  be  caught  in  the  swirling  flood  and  car- 
ried on  to  destruction  unless  we  revert  to  those  simple  but  funda- 
mental doctrines  of  the  Gospel,  and  put  our  trust  in  the  Lord,  re- 
newing our  covenants  with  him,  that  his  arm  may  sustain  us. 

We  are  living  at  the  time  seen  by  Lehi,  the  Nephite  prophet, 
when,  because  of  the  darkness,  which  covered  the  earth,  many  peo- 
ple who  had  entered  into  the  straight  and  narrow  path  which  leads 
to  eternal  life,  as  we  have  done,  lost  their  way  and  perished.  But 
those  who  seized  and  held  fast  to  the  rod  of  iron,  which  is  the  word 
of  God,  found  their  way  safely  through  the  dark  night  until  they 
reached  the  tree  of  life,  and  partook  of  its  fruit,  which  is  more  de- 
sirable than  all  others. 

WARNING  AGAINST  BECOMING  LIKE  THE  PHARISEES  OF  OLD 

The  commission  given  to  the  Twelve  who  hold  the  apostleship 
today  is  to  go  into  the  world  and  preach  the  gospel  to  all  people, 
admonishing  them  to  rely  upon  the  merits  of  our  Father,  to  take  up- 
on them  the  name  of  Christ  and  to  keep  all  of  the  commandments 
which  he  has  given,  to  only  a  few  of  which  I  have  called  your  at- 
tention. We  must  not  my  brethren  and  sisters  become  so  absorbed 
with  the  temporalities  of  life,  with  the  weighty  and  abstruse  doctrines 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


87 


of  the  gospel,  that  we  forget  these  simple  and  fundamental  doctrines 
of  the  Church  to  which  I  have  called  your  attention,  lest  we  become 
like  the  Scribes  and  Pharisees  of  old,  of  whom  the  Redeemer  said : 
"Ye  diligently  pay  your  tithes  and  offerings,  but  ye  forget  the  more 
weighty  thing's  of  the  law,  judgment,  justice  and  mercy.  These,"  he  said, 
"you  should  have  kept  and  not  left  the  others  undone." 

REMEMBER  THESE  SIMPLE,  FUNDAMENTAL  DOCTRINES 

May  the  Lord  help  us  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  I  am  speak- 
ing to  myself  as  well  as  to  you,  to  remember  these  simple  funda- 
mental doctrines  of  the  gospel  of  Christ,  that  our  lives  may  be  such 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  abide  with  us,  and  the  revelations  of 
heaven  be  manifested  to  us  through  the  whispering  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
which  has  been  conferred  upon  every  one  of  us,  the  office  work  of 
which  is  to  take  the  things  of  the  Father  and  make  them  known  to 
us,  that  we  may  each  discharge  with  honor  before  the  Lord  the 
obligations  which  are  upon  us,  and  wait  patiently  the  development 
of  his  work,  that  we  may  bring  to  pass  the  redemption  of  his  cove- 
nant people,  the  establishment  of  righteousness  in  the  earth,  when 
Christ  shall  reign  triumphant  among  his  people,  is  my  humble  prayer, 
through  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

President  Grant  announced  to  the  congregation  outside  that  it 
would  be  acceptable  if  they  would  be  as  quiet  as  possible  and  move 
around  as  little  as  possible  so  that  those  who  were  standing  at  the 
Bureau  of  Information  could  hear  the  speakers. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

( Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church ) 

It  is  a  wonderful  opportunity  to  stand  here  and  face  this  multi- 
tude of  people,  and  I  am  sure  some  of  you  realize  that  it  is  a  wonderful 
responsibility.  I  hope  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  the  few  moments 
I  stand  here,  in  keeping  with  the  brethren  who  have  already  occupied 
this  position.  I  have  learned,  to  a  certain  degree,  the  weight  of 
responsibility  that  has  come  to  me  as  one  of  the  youths  of  Israel,  one 
of  the  young  men  of  Zion,  in  these  the  last  days. 

President  Ivins  has  been  speaking  to  us  concerning  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord,  and  how  these  commandments  have  been 
taught  to  us  of  the  Lord,  at  different  times  in  the  history  of  the  world. 
We  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has  spoken  to  us  in  plainness, 
and  that  his  commandments  are  given  to  us  in  our  own  language, 
simple,  plain  and  forceful,  and  yet  many  of  us  are  so  blinded  by 
the  conditions  that  surround  us,  perhaps  by  the  fashions  of  the  world, 
with  which  we  are  surrounded,  that  we  fail  in  many  ways  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.    I  suppose,  my  experience  has  given 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


me  as  good  a  view  as  any  officer  in  the  Church,  to  judge  about  how 
well  the  Latter-day  Saints  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  I 
think  also  that  the  Lord  has  made  me  in  a  way  rather  sympathetic, 
and  when  I  discover  my  brethren  or  sisters  seeking  the  Lord,  for 
comfort,  blessings,  strength,  courage,  faith,  and  for  other  gifts  or 
blessings,  or  help,  I  stand  ready,  naturally,  to  do  my  part  in  assisting 
to  see  that  the  desired  comfort,  and  consolation,  are  received.  But 
I  have  discovered  that  the  greater  number  of  those  who  are  seeking 
comfort  and  consolation  and  help  from  the  Lord  are  those  who  are  in 
trouble,  those  who  have  unfortunately  stumbled  over  some  of  the 
obstacles  that  have  crossed  their  pathway.  And  so  there  are  a  great 
many  members  of  the  Church  who  are  constantly  seeking  for  help, 
comfort,  and  consolation,  and  the  Lord  in  his  kindness,  in  the  great 
and  wonderful  organization  of  his  Church,  has  placed  officers  there- 
in to  assist  in  administering  the  comfort  and  consolation  which  his 
children  naturally  seek. 

I  should  like  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  these  noble  and  worthy  officers  whom  the  Lord  has  placed 
in  his  Church,  they  are  stationed  throughout  the  Stakes  of  Zion 
just  as  well  as  at  the  head  of  the  Church.  They  are  noble,  exemplary 
and  worthy  men.  They  are  the  Patriarchs  in  the  Church  and  are 
authorized  with  the  powers  and  the  keys  of  authority,  to  administer 
the  blessings  desired  by  the  members  of  the  Church.  It  is  my  purpose 
on  this  occasion,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  recommend  these  good 
men  to  you,  to  administer  your  blessings,  in  keeping  with  the  in- 
structions which  have  come  to  us  from  the  Lord  through  his  holy 
servants.  They  are  modest  in  their  character;  they  dislike  very  much 
to  come  to  you  and  .say:  "Well  now,  here  I  am,  a  servant  of  the 
Lord,  authorized  with  all  the  keys,  authorities  and  powers  to  bless  you, 
and  I  am  ready,  ask  and  you  shall  receive."  It  is  not  their  purpose 
to  come  to  you,  particularly,  but  it  is  your  privilege  to  go  to  them ; 
they  are  authorized  to  act  for  you,  and  it  is  my  faith  and  my  testimony 
to  you  brethren  and  sisters,  that  they  are  humble  and  pure  enough 
to  act  in  their  calling,  and  give  unto  you  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
and  not  entirely  the  blessings  of  men.  It  is  true  that  we,  as  fellow- 
men,  can  bless  one  another.  We  can  encourage  and  comfort  each 
other ;  but  these  men  of  whom  I  speak,  who  bear  the  holy  Priesthood, 
have  been  especially  authorized,  called  and  set  apart,  they  are  author- 
ized to  comfort  you  with  the  blessings  of  the  Lord.  So  I  recommend 
that  you  do  not  slight  or  forget  these  good  men.  Pray  for  them 
as  you  would  pray  for  your  own  household.  Pray  for  them  that 
they  may  enjoy  the  spirit  of  their  office  and  calling  in  the  Church. 

In  olden  days,  patriarchs  were  placed  in  Israel  to  perform  ordin- 
ances for  Christ,  by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  Adam  called  his  poster- 
ity together  and  foretold  unto  them  the  great  future  that  might  be- 
fall them,  for  their  benefit,  comfort,  and  guidance,  and  inj  like 
manner  these  men  are  placed  in  our  midst  for  that  same  purpose,  to 
comfort,  guide  and  sustain  us  in  the  fold  of  Christ.    I  have  been 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


89 


convinced  that  there  is  a  blessing  for  every  faithful  member  of  the 
Church.  It  is  true  there  are  many  members  who  have  had  other 
blessings,  and  if  they  are  considered  in  a  proper  light,  I  am  sure  they 
have  done  no  harm,  and  perhaps  will  do  no  harm  in  the  future. 
But  I  think  every  faithful  member  of  the  Church  should  receive 
his  or  her  blessing. 

The  first  Patriarch  in  this  dispensation,  the  father  of  our  Prophet, 
when  he  was  upon  his  dying  bed,  called  his  family  around  him  and 
gave  them  his  dying  blessing ;  and  when  his  oldest  living  son  came, 
he  said :  "Hyrum,  the  only  blessing  I  have  for  you  is  to  reconfirm  upon 
you  your  patriarchal  blessing  which  you  have  already  received."  That 
was  his  dying  blessing,  with  very  few  other  remarks  of  comfort  and  con- 
solation; this  assures  me  that  there  is  a  fundamental  principle  in  a 
patriarchal  blessing  when  pronounced  and  recorded.  It  is  an  eternal 
anchor  for  our  soul  with  the  Lord ;  so  it  is  not  particularly  necessary 
to  receive  a  multitude  of  written  blessings.  But  when  these  blessings 
are  given  and  properly  recorded,  they  are  just  as  eternal  and  binding 
upon  us  through  our  faithfulness  as  were  the  blessines  which  were 
given  by  Adam,  Abraham,  Jacob  or  any  of  the  former  patriarchs  in 
the  times  which  have  passed. 

I  have  open  here  before  me  the  Book  of  Genesis,  which  contains 
the  records  of  a  number  of  patriarchal  blessings.  They  are  not  long, 
they  do  not  cover  pages  and  pages  of  manuscript,  but  they  are  very 
brief  and  pointed ;  and  it  has  taken  generations  of  time,  many  years 
of  time,  for  their  fulfilment ;  in  fact,  they  are  not  entirely  fulfilled 
yet — 'blessings  that  were  given  upon  the  heads  of  the  descendants  of 
Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt,  and  upon  the  sons  of  Jacob. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  will  discover  the  keynote  of 
your  blessing  it  will  not  be  a  long  one,  necessarily,  but  an  index  that 
will  point  to  you  the  book  of  life,  the  book  of  the  way  of  your  life, 
in  the  path  that  you  should  go  to  serve  God  and  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments. So,  I  say,  do  not  wait  until  you  are  in  trouble  to  go 
to  the  Lord,  through  his  holy  servants,  but  seek  them  out  in  their 
homes,  in  their  offices,  make  appointments  with  them  and  get  your 
blessings. 

My  heart  is  filled,  today,  with  compassion  and  with  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  for  his  people,  and  I  pray  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
will  continue  to  pour  out  his  blessings  upon  this  Church,  upon  those 
who  are  called  to  preside  over  it,  and  in  it,  that  he  will  sustain  them 
with  health,  strength,  wisdom,  and  with  his  Holy  Spirit,  that  he  will 
bless  the  people  in  their  homes  and  in  their  fields  of  labor,  the  Saints 
both  gathered  and  scattered,  that  they  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  and  live  exemplary  lives,  free  from  the  follies  and  vices  of 
the  world,  even  though  we  are  much  surrounded  by  the  world.  Let 
us  be  that  peculiar  people  which  the  Lord  declared  he  would  have.  Let 
us  hearken  unto  the  whisperings  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  to  the  teach- 
ings given  us,  not  only  in  general  conferences,  but  in  our  quarterly 
conferences  and  in  all  of  our  local  gatherings.    And  in  the  name 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Lord,  as  his  humble  servant,  I  bless  this  multitude  present 
here  today,  and  say  unto  you:  Serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. Hearken  unto  that  small  voice,  which  is  the  voice  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  which  will  guide  you  in  the  way  of  truth,  in  the  way 
of  life,  and  then  you  will  receive  the  precious  blessings  which  you 
desire,  in  faithfulness  and  which  have  been  nobly  pointed  out  to  us 
this  morning  by  President  Ivins.  They  are  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 
and  they  will  be  upon  you  and  upon  this  people,  so  long  as  we  will 
serve  the  Lord ;  the  Lord  of  this  Church,  this  land,  this  world ;  for 
this  world  is  his,  and  we  are  his,  and  if  we  will  only  hearken  unto 
his  teachings,  he  will  bless  us  temporally  and  spiritually.  God  bless 
you  all  through  your  faithfulness,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  anthem,  "He  watches  over  Israel,"  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRA  IT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  .fission) 

I  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  sense  very  keenly 
the  responsibility  of  addressing  you  for  a  few  moments  this  morning, 
and  my  only  desire  is  to  add  my  testimony  to  those  that  have  been 
borne  by  the  brethren  who  have  spoken  during  this  conference  relative 
to  the  truthfulness  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  all  engaged. 

Since  the  beginning  of  this  conference  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Paul  to  the  Corinthian  saints  have  been  passing  through  my  mind, 
wherein  he  said : 

"For  the  kingdom  of  God  is  not  in  word,  but  in  power."  And 
I  am  most  thankful  to  the  Lord  that  in  this  day  and  age  in  which 
we  live  he  has  again  set  up  his  kingdom  and  established  his  Church 
and  restored  his  gospel,  and  in  them  has  placed  his  power ;  for  I  testify 
to  you,  this  morning  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  raised  up  of 
God,  and  did  not  take  unto  himself  power,  but  from  our  Father  in 
heaven  received  power  to  establish  this  great  work ;  and  the  work  ol 
the  Lord,  in  this  day  and  age  in  which  we  live,  is  characterized  by 
the  power  of  our  Father  in  heaven  in  all  of  its  ramifications.  We 
who  have  listened  to  the  inspired  words  of  our  Prophet  and  leader 
and  his  counselors,  and  the  Twelve  Apostles  in  this  conference,  surely 
are  witnesses  of  the  power  of  God  that  has  accompanied  their  words. 
I  marveled  last  night,  when  we  saw  the  body  of  this  hall  filled  with 
men  bearing  the  holy  Priesthood,  at  the  wonderful  power  there  is  in 
this  Church  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the  perfecting  of  the 
Saints,  for  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  for  the  warning  of  all  men 
everywhere  in  order  that  they  may  turn  from  error,  from  false  tradi- 
tions, and  receive  the  principles  of  the  gospel  and  be  saved  in  the 
kingdom  of  our  Father  in  heaven. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  one  who  labors 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


91 


in  the  mission  field  abroad,  that  the  young  men  who  go  forth  from 
Zion  to  preach  the  gospel  unto  the  nations  of  the  earth,  are  preaching 
it  in  power.  They  speak  truly  after  the  manner  of  the  Master,  and 
men  marvel,  and  are  led  to  comment  and  say,  "They  speak  as  men 
having  authority."  There  is  no  doubt  as  to  the  genuineness,  the  sin- 
cerity, of  the  testimonies  borne;  by  the  young  men  who  preach  the  gos- 
pel message  in  the  world.  While  many  people  do  not  accept  their 
teachings,  they  do  not  question  their  sincerity.  And  this  is  a  tribute,  I 
take  it,  to  the  great  power  that  accompanies  their  ministry  in  the 
world. 

I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  have  no  definite  knowledge  as 
to  what  my  status  or  standing  will  be  in  the  future.  I  do  not  know 
that  I  shall  be  able  to  maintain  my  integrity  and  my  faith,  but  I  do 
know,  and  bear  witness  to  you  here  today,  that  the  thing  known  as 
"Mormonism"  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ;  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation,  and  it  is  a  means  unto  the  salvation  of  every  man  who 
will  believe  and  obey  its  principles.  This  is  the  message  that  we  are 
delivering  in  the  world.  I  care  not  what  obstacles  present  themselves 
before  this  work.  The  Lord  himself  has  said,  that  even  though  the 
gates  of  hell  combat  against  it,  they  shall  not  prevail.  I  have  faith  in 
the  fulfilment  of  all  that  God  has  promised  unto  his  people  in  these 
days.  Particularly  I  wish  to  refer  to  my  faith  in  the  promises  of  the 
Lord  made  by  his  holy  prophets  concerning  the  redemption  of  the 
Lamanite  people.  My  heart  was  touched  yesterday  by  the  recital  of 
Brother  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  Indian  brothers  who  crossed  this 
continent,  going  to  the  East,  in  an  endeavor  to  bring  back  with  them 
that  which  would  save  their  people.  The  pathos  of  their  having  to  go 
back  without  it  was  truly  touching  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Ana 
now  I  rejoice  that  God  has  restored  the  truth,  that  he  has  made  known 
a  book  and  brought  it  forth  in  the  world,  that  is  the  history  of  the  fore- 
fathers of  these  people.  And  in  that  book  is  prophetically  held  out  a 
hope  for  the  redemption  of  the  Lamanite  people  everywhere. 

We  are  laboring  in  a  land  beset  by  strife  and  turmoil,  trouble  and 
revolution.  It  would  seem  almost  sufficient  to  discourage  us  in  our 
efforts.  But  I  wish  to  bear  testimony  that  my  faith  grows,  rather  than 
diminishes,  in  the  knowledge  that  I  have,  that  God  will,  in  his  own  due 
time  and  in  his  own  way,  redeem  the  Lamanite  people. 

I  delight  to  bring  word  to  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  faithful 
boys  and  girls — for  they  are  mere  youths — who  are  in  that  mission, 
•that  they  are  enjoying  good  health,  and  above  all,  they  are  enjoying 
the  spirit  of  their  mission.  They  do  not  wish  to  turn  to  the  right  nor 
to  the  left,  but  are  willing  to  face  conditions  as  they  find  them,  and 
humbly  preach  the  gospel,  in  the  hope  that  their  testimony  may  touch 
the  hearts  of  the  people  and  bring  them  to  a  knowledge  of  God,  and 
a  knowledge  of  their  forefathers,  and  the  gospel  whereby  they  may 
be  redeemed. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  giving  me  this  testimony.    I  pray 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  it  may  always  be  with  me,  and  with  you  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  that  we  may  go  on  without  fear  and  without  doubt,  remember- 
ing this,  that  in  the  Church  is  the  power  of  God  that  can  work  his  will 
for  the  redemption  of  all  men  everywhere.  May  the  Lord  add  his 
blessings,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  should  like  to  speak  for  the  fathers  and  the  mothers  of  the 
Church  and  in  their  behalf  say  to  the  young  people  of  the  Church : 

A  MESSAGE  TO  THE  YOUTH  OF  ZION 

Young  men  and  young  women,  we  believe  in  you ;  we  have  con- 
fidence in  your  integrity,  and  in  the  achievement  of  your  high  destiny. 
We  support  you,  we  love  you.  I  believe  if  we  could  make  the  young 
people  of  the  Church  understand  that,  we  should  have  gone  a  long 
way  to  hold  them  to  the  standards  of  the  Church  and  to  the  keep- 
ing of  the  commandments  which  have  occupied  in  their  exposition, 
such  a  large  portion  of  this  conference. 

THE  GREAT  OBLIGATION  OF  PARENTS 

I  was  very  grateful  that  President  Grant  was  led  in  the  course 
of  his  opening  remarks  to  restate  and  reemphasize  the  great  obligation 
of  parents  to  their  children ;  for  it  is  that  thing  which  seems  to  me, 
above  all  others,  to  claim  our  attention  as  a  Church.  We  are  depend- 
ing upon  the  rising  generation  to  carry  forward  this  great  and  mighty 
work.  Only  a  few  years  at  best  will  serve  to  see  the  men  whom 
you  will  sustain  here  today  as  the  prophets  and  authorities  of  this 
great  institution,  pass  to  their  honorable  reward.  The  burdens  of 
administration,  the  opportunities  of  leadership  must,  in  natural  sequence, 
pass  to  other  and  younger  shoulders.  So  that,  loving  the  work  as 
we  do,  believing  in  its  great  accomplishments  for  the  future,  we  must, 
of  necessity,  hold  and  claim  these  young  people  to  carry  it  forward, 
to  stand  for  and  maintain  God's  work. 

I  think  they  need  at  this  time  large  sympathy  from  us.  When 
I  contemplate  the  environment  in  which  they  are  placed,  the  unusual 
conditions  surrounding  them,  my  heart  goes  out  to  every  one  who 
must  stand  for  honest  manhood  and  resist  untoward  influences  and 
maintain  himself  in  accordance  with  the  commandments  of  God  and 
the  standards  of  the  Church. 

UNUSUAL  EDUCATIONAL  ENVIRONMENT  INFLUENCES  THE  YOUTH 

Do  you  contemplate  the  fact  that  the  great  educational  forces 
surrounding  the  youth  of  today  are  most  unusual,  that  in  the  major 
portion  they  did  not  exist  a  few  decades  ago?  There  were  no 
moving  pictures  twenty  or  twenty-five  years  ago,  and  within  that 
short  space  of  time,  that  great  enterprise  which  produces  these  pictures 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


93 


and  distributes  them  all  over  the  world  for  the  education,  mind  you, 
of  the  people  of  the  world,  and  the  youth  of  the  land  in  particular,  has 
come  to  be,  it  is  said,  the  fourth  largest  commercial  enterprise  in 
the  world.  Thousands  and  thousands  every  day  are  subjected  to  the 
influence  and  the  education  of  these  pictures.  What  that  education 
is,  you  may  judge  for  yourselves.  What  lessons  are  taught,  you 
yourselves  have  seen,  and  that  our  young  people  should  respond  to 
those  lessons  is  as  natural  as  it  is  for  flowers  to  grow  in  the  sunshine, 
or  f  or  vegetation  to  die  in  the  dark,  depressing,  poisonous  atmosphere 
of  a  cellar. 

Many  inventions  and  innovations  of  the  past  few  years  have  also 
wrought  their  influences  upon  these  boys  and  girls  so  susceptible  to 
their  environment.  There  has  been  the  advent  of  the  automobile, 
radios,  new  kinds  and  varieties  of  drama,  of  music,  or  that  which 
is  said  to  be  music,  all  of  which  just  as  naturally  and  as  inevitably 
influence  and  determine  the  emotions,  and  in  a  large  respect,  the 
actions  of  these  boys  and  girls,  as  it  is  possible  to  do.  A  man  can, 
only  with  the  greatest  of  restraint  and  of  force,  take  himself  out  of 
his  environment  and  stand  against  the  influences  inserted  against  him 
in  society.  It  is  harder  for  young  people  than  it  is  for  adults  to  do 
that,  because  their  natures  are  more  susceptible  and  impressionable 
to  the  influences  around  about  them. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  PARENTS  IN  BEHALF  OF  THE  YOUNG  FOLKS 

In  behalf  of  all  these  young  folks  up  and  down  the  Church,  I 
would  like  to  say  to  the  parents  of  the  Church :  We  claim  your 
sympathy.  We  need  your  guiding  hand,  but  we  need  your  guidance 
expressed  in  terms  of  love  and  understanding.  I  feel  that  in  many 
instances  the  young  folks  of  the  Church  are  not  fully  understood.  I 
;do  not  like  to  hear  them  berated,  I  do  not  like  to  hear  it  said  that 
they  have  all  gone  wrong  and  that  they  are  all  going  wrong.  I  do 
not  believe  it,  because  I  believe  that  these  young  folks,  by  right  have 
inherited,  fundamentally,  the  faith  of  their  fathers.  They  have  in- 
herited a  disposition  to  serve  God.  That  is  the  natural  and  logical 
sequence  of  the  lives  of  the  great  pioneers  of  this  country  who  came 
here  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments,  and  establish  his  great 
and  mighty  work.  Therefore,  I  cannot  think  that  in  the  main  the 
young  people  of  this  Church  are  not  the  best,  the  most  dependable, 
the  most  progressive  and  the  finest  young  generation  which  the  world, 
at  least  within  the  realm  of  history,  has  ever  seen. 

Sometimes  parents,  out  of  a  great  desire  to  be  helpful  and  to 
warn  against  danger  and  evil,  assume  an  austerity  that  is  forbidding 
to  these  young  folks,  and  too  often,  much  too  often,  there  is  a  failure 
of  that  sympathetic  understanding  which  makes  a  bond  of  union  and 
love  between  parents  and  children  than  which  there  is  no  greater  bul- 
wark of  safety  for  the  young  people  of  the  Church.  I  appeal  to  every 
parent  in  this  Church  to  understand  his  children.    To  understand  them 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


he  must,  to  some  extent  at  least,  participate  in  their  activities  and  rec- 
reation. He  must  delve  into  their  inmost  longings  and  cravings  and 
aspirations.  He  must  know  the  things  that  have  appealed  to  them, 
and  then  discriminately,  wisely,  sympathetically,  he  shall  guide  them, 
guide  them  in  the  paths  of  truth  and  of  righteousness. 

VISIONS  OF  WONDERFUL  OPPORTUNITY  OF  THE  HOME 

What  we  need  today  is  an  interpretation  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  terms  of  joyous  living.  The  gospel  is  not,  as  many  of  our 
young  folks  think  it  to  be,  a  hard,  a  joy-killing  rule  of  life.  I  some- 
times think  that  our  young  people  are  dissuaded  from  participation 
in  the  activities  of  the  Church  because  there  has  never  been  given, 
to  many  of  them  at  least,  the  great  vision  of  the  wonderful  opportunity, 
the  joys,  the  happiness,  the  services  which  are  to  be  had 
within  it.  We  need  to  let  them  know  that  for  happiness, 
for  supreme  joy,  for  those  permanent  satisfactions  that  go 
to  make  life  worth  living,  there  is  no  course  in  life  com- 
parable to  the  course  laid  down  by  the  blessed  gospel  of  our  Lord 
and  our  Savior.  They  do  not  all  understand  that.  They  do  not 
all  recognize  the  great  joy  to  be  had  from  participation  within  our 
Church  institutions,  and  it  is  our  great  mission  in  the  various  in- 
stitutions of  the  Church,  and  primarily  in  that  greatest  of  all  Church 
institutions,  the  home,  to  give  that  joyous  conception  of  the  principles 
of  the  gospel. 

THE  GOSPEL  A  CONSTRUCTIVE  PROGRAM 

Our  gospel  is  not  a  gospel  of  negation.  It  is  true  that  we  are 
commanded  to  eschew  evil  and  to  avoid  many  things  which  present 
themselves  in  forms  of  temptation,  but  our  gospel  is  a  positive  up- 
lifting, constructive  program,  making  life  happy  if  we  will  but  sub- 
scribe to  its  tenets  and  live  up  to  the  commandments  as  they  have 
been  given  to  us. 

I  think  that  the  Christian  church  of  the  world  has  itself  to  blame 
for  its  failure  in  really  teaching  the  gospel  of  Christ.  It  is  largely 
because  of  the  attitude  taken  by  many  of  its  leaders,  whose  long- 
faced  piety  and  joy-killing  aspect  have  never  been  pleasing  to  young 
people.  It  is  said  by  the  critics  of  Christ  that,  "Christ  is  the  prophet 
of  the  weak ;  on  the  contrary,  he  came  to  give  strength  to  the  languish- 
ing, and  to  raise  up  those  trodden  under  foot  to  be  higher  than  kings. 
They  say  that  his  is  the  religion  of  the  sick  and  of  the  dying,  and 
yet  he  heals  the  sick  and  brings  the  sleeping  to  life.  They  say  that 
he  is  against  life,  and  yet  he  conquers  death;  that  he  is  the  God  of 
sadness,  and  yet  he  exhorts  his  followers  to  be  joyful  and  promises 
an  everlasting  banquet  of  joy  to  his  friends.  They  say  he  introduced 
sadness  and  mortification  into  the  world,  and  on  the  contrary  when 
he  was  alive  he  ate  and  drank,  and  let  his  feet  and  hair  be  perfumed, 
and  detested  hypocritical  fasts,  and  the  penitential  mummeries  of 
vanity.    Many  have  left  Christ  because  they  never  knew  him." 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


95 


OH,  THAT  BOYS  AND  GIRLS  MIGHT  KNOW  JESUS  CHRIST 

Oh,  how  I  want  our  boys  and  girls  to  know  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  men!  How  I  wish  that  they  would  recognize  that  he 
is  their  dearest  and  their  greatest  friend,  that  they  may  put  their 
trust  in  him,  knowing  that  he  will  never  forsake  them,  and  that  a 
testimony  of  his  divinity  and  his  great  work  is  the  greatest  influence 
that  will  ever  come  into  their  lives. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  our  mission  and  our  duty  to  give  them 
that  testimony,  for  the  enrichment  of  their  souls,  and  for  that  salva- 
tion, for  which  we  all  labor  and  strive.  God  bless  the  youth  of 
Zion,  that  they  may  accomplish  their  high  and  noble  destiny  in  the 
purposes  of  the  Lord,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(President  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

In  this  exalted  position,  being  honored  to  stand  before  this  mag- 
nificent congregation,  I  hope  to  voice  the  sentiments  of  my  heart  in 
the  testimony  which  I  hope  to  bear  to  you  today. 

The  gospel  is  true.  God  has  indeed  spoken  from  the  heavens 
and  called  into  being  the  power  that  has  resulted  in  the  organization 
of  this  great  people  constituting  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

"Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 
"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be  saved;  and  he  that  believeth 
not  shall  be  damned,"  or  condemned. 

Time  since  the  organization  of  the  Church  has  proved  this  great 
fact,  that  the  majority  of  mankind  are  not  prepared  or  preparing  them- 
selves to  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Nearly  one  hundred  years 
have  passed  since  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  yet  among  the  eighteen  hundred  millions,  or 
two  thousand  millions  of  peoples  of  the  earth,  the  true  Church,  as 
we  view  it  and  testify  for  it,  has  only  about  a  half  million  members, 
proving  beyond  a  question  of  a  doubt  that  the  great  majority  of  man- 
kind has  something  to  attract  their  attention  besides  their  soul's  salva- 
tion. Rather  than  contemplate  the  future  and  prepare  for  future  life, 
it  would  seem  that  the  large  majority  of  the  people  of  the  earth  are 
preparing  for  .social  and  pleasant  enjoyment  of  the  present  day,  giving 
to  themselves  all  the  pleasures  of  life  that  they  can  gather,  and  seem- 
ingly not  impressed  at  all  with  the  great  future  and  the  great  re- 
ward that  will  come  to  those  who  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. 

I  am  very  glad  to  stand  here  today  and  look  over  this  great 
congregation,  this  large  Tabernacle  filled  to  its  capacity;  and  seem- 
ingly every  face,  so  far  as  I  can  observe,  is  anxiously  turned  this  way. 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Every  person  seems  devoted  and  determined  to  hear  the  words  that 
are  spoken  by  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

This  is  a  day  of  prosperity  for  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We  are 
in  the  midst  of  a  very  prosperous  season.  The  years  that  have  gone 
since  the  great  World  War  terminated  have  marked  this  nation  of 
ours  with  wonderful,  I  might  almost  say  supreme,  prosperity.  The 
earth  has  brought  forth  in  its  strength  all  the  necessaries  of  life,  and 
the  luxuries;  while  there  are,  as  we  know,  nations  on  the  continents 
of  Europe,  Asia  and  Africa,  that  are  suffering  with  hunger,  and  in 
the  colder  climates  with  cold,  for  want  of  proper  clothing;  and  yet 
this  nation  of  ours  prospers,  as  it  is  being  well  supplied  with  the  food 
crops  necessary  for  prolongation  of  life,  with  health  and  means  for 
sufficient  clothing,  and  the  comforts  of  home.  While  this  is  evidenced 
here,  it  is  also  made  plain  to  us-  that  there  is  plenty  ot  room  for  the 
disposition  of  wealth  and  comforts  of  life  to  those  starving  millions 
on  the  other  side  of  the  ocean ;  and  I  believe  that  there  has  no  other 
nation  responded  so  readily  to  those  calls  of  necessity  by  the  agencies 
that  have  been  established,  there  is  no  other  nation,  so  far  as  I  know, 
that  has  stood  so  loyally  and  so  promptly  in  the  gap  to  help  to  .sustain 
life  in  the  midst  of  these  suffering  nations,  and  for  the  prompt  reply, 
favorably,  to  the  calls  that  have  been  made,  from  time  to  time,  by 
these  nations.  I  believe  that  for  this  reason  we  are  thus  blessed  and 
prospered  today.  F"or  we  have  not  refused,  but  have  always  sent,  and 
given  largely,  and  many  times  in  excess  of  all  demands.  At  least  there 
is  a  united  purpose  in  the  midst  of  our  nation,  seeking  to  relieve  the 
sufferings  of  those  who  are  hungry  and  cold. 

When  the  Church  was  organized,  on  the  6th  day  of  April, — 
by  the  by,  this  is  the  6th  of  April,  the  94th  anniversary — there  was 
considerable  disturbance  in  the  minds  of  religious  peoples,  and  from 
those  very  religious  or  social  gatherings  came  largely  the  opposition 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  to  his  calling  and  position  as  a 
Prophet  of  the  Lord.  Thus  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  com- 
pelled, through  those  recognized  servants  of  the  Lord,  to  fight  its 
way  through,  and  by  and  by,  from  the  time  of  its  organization,  I  suppose, 
with  the  hope  of  some  day  living  in  peace  with  our  neighbors.  That 
day  seems  to  have  dawned.  We  are  in  peaceful  relationship  with 
our  neighbors,  and  with  everybody,  so  far  as  we  can  get  into  their 
circles  with  the  gospel  truths.  Never  before,  I  believe,  have  we  had 
such  splendid  ministrations  in  our  great  missions,  I  mean  as  to  com- 
petent elders  and  competent  missionaries  of  both  sexes ;  and  today 
we  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  of  the  brethren  who  are  at  the  head  of 
these  missions  of  the  Church.  They  believe  that  they  are  making 
progress  in  every  department  of  the  work,  and  I  am  glad  to  hear  the 
testimonies  of  my  brethren  from  this  stand,  for  they  all  bespeak  a 
characteristic  of  perfect  faith  and  knowledge  in  the  outcome  of  this 
work,  in  its  being  superior  to  any  other  religious  work  that  is  now 
being  established.    From  the  President  of  the  Church  to  the  least  and 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


97 


last  member,  each  of  those  occupying  a  lesser  position,  as  they  have 
testified  here  during  this  conference,  and  as  they  will  continue  to  do 
until  it  is  closed,  we  hear  nothing  but  what  is  prompted  by  the  spirit 
of  the  Lord,  by  the  testimony  of  a  faithful  Latter-day  Saint.  In  each 
and  every  case,  nothing  but  the  free  spirit  of  progress  has  been 
expressed  here,  and  nothing  but  pure  testimonies  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Chiist  have  been  heard  from  the  lips  of  the  speakers. 

Today  will  probably  see  the  sustaining  vote  of  the  congregation, 
as  they  are  called  to  vote  for  the  officers  of  the  Church.  1  do  not  believe, 
with  the  circumstances  with  which  we  are  surrounded,  and  the  spirit 
of  this  great  congregation,  that  there  will  be  one  dissenting  vote  or 
one  contrary  to  sustaining  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  when  the 
vote  shall  be  taken  sometime  during  the  day. 

I  am  glad  to  be  associated  with  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  began 
my  experience  at  one  year  of  age,  at  which  time  I  went  through 
the  experience  of  the  massacre  at  Haun's  Mill.  I  attended  a  fair 
in  one  of  the  nearby  cities  a  year  or  two  ago,  and  I  saw  within  the 
gates  of  the  fair  grounds  a  stone,  an  old-fashioned  burr  stone,  as  we 
used  to  call  them,  for  grinding  grain.  You  know  it  speaks  in  the 
Scriptures  of  the  upper  and  nether  mill-stone.  And  one  of  these  stones,  it 
was  stated  on  a  placard,  was  taken  from  the  old  well  where  twenty 
"Mormons"  were  buried  after  a  battle  with  the  citizens  of  the  surround- 
ing country.  I  said  to  the  people  standing  by :  "That  does  not  tell 
the  truth.  It  was  not  a  battle,  it  was  a  bloody  massacre  of  innocent 
men  who  had  no  means  of  defense."  And,  by  the  by,  the  toll  exacted 
at  that  massacre  was  the  largest  of  any  at  any  one  time  that  had 
ever  been  taken  from  the  Church.  The  deaths  amounted  to  about 
twenty-two  persons,  all  males,  however.  There  was  one  female,  I  think, 
wounded  accidentally  but  not  seriously.  The  people  who  came  to 
distress  that  little  band  or  colony  of  "Mormons"  seemed  to  shun  the 
idea  of  killing  women  and  children,  and  devoted  their  entire  strength 
to  the  destruction  of  the  men.  Eighty-five  years  have  passed  since 
that  massacre,  and  I  would  like  very  much  to  see  a  very  well-marked 
stone  at  the  place  where  the  massacre  occurred — not  costly,  but  merely  , 
a  mark  that  will  remain  for  future  generations  to  see. 

I  rejoice  today  in  the  testimonies  which  I  have  heard.  I  testify 
to  you  that  the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Savior  of  the  world.  I  know  as  well  as  I  know  that  I 
live  that  Joseph  Smith  was  indeed  a  prophet  of  God,  and  those 
brethren  who  have  succeeded  him,  commencing  with  President  Brigham 
Young,  including  President  John  Taylor,  including  President  Wilford 
Woodruff,  including  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  including  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  now  our  beloved  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  are 
men  called  to  that  high  position  which  they  occupied  and  do  occupy, 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  under  the  direction  of 
that  power  and  that  Spirit,  they  have  led  and  guided  the  people;  and 
the  conditions  with  which  we  are  surrounded  today  proclaim  to  me 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  most  satisfactory  manner  that  the  people  generally,  the  majority 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  are  striving  with  might,  mind  and  strength, 
from  the  President  down  to  the  least  and  last  member,  to  know  the 
mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  and  to  keep  his  commandments.  The 
prosperity  which  we  experience  today,  the  plenty  with  which  we  are 
surrounded,  and  the  testimonies  of  the  people  who  do  not  belong 
to  the  Church,  all  are  convincing  arguments  to  remind  us  that  the 
Lord  is  blessing  his  people  more  abundantly  today  than  ever  before, 
and  the  testimonies  of  the  brethren  seem  to  be  brighter  and  clearer 
than  ever  before,  bringing  to  my  mind  and  to  my  great  satisfaction, 
that  we  are  lovers  of  God  more  than  lovers  of  pleasure,  and  that 
we  are  trying  to  fulfil  the  measure  of  those  two  great  commandments 
given  to  us  by  .the  Savior  of  the  world :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord 
thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy 
mind    *    *    *    *    and  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Bless  their 
labors  and  inspire  them  in  the  future  as  in  the  past.  Give  them  joy 
in  their  labors,  because  of  the  earnestness  of  endeavor  that  the  people 
are  making  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  commandments.  God 
bless  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  and  every  responsible  leader, 
and  all  the  people,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  Amen. 

Announcements  of  the  special  Priesthood  meeting  to  be  held  on 
Monday  morning  at  10  o'clock,  also  of  the  Sunday  School  conference 
to  be  held  Sunday  evening,  the  6th,  at  7  o'clock,  were  made. 

The  choir  sang,  "The  Inflammatus"  with  Dolores  Seal  as  soloist. 

The  closing  prayer  was  given  by  Elder  Jacob  Hamblin  of  the  St. 
Johns  stake  of  Zion. 

FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An. overflow  meeting  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  a.  m.,  April  6,  1924.  Elder  William  A.  Hyde,  president  of 
the  Pocatello  stake  of  Zion,  presided.  Music  and  singing  were  fur- 
nished by  the  Twenty-first  ward  choir  under  the  direction  of  Walter 
A.  Wallace,  and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  organist. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  William  C.  Winder,  of 
the  High  Council  of  Granite  stake. 

The  choir  sang,  "Ye  simple  souls  who  stray." 

ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  HYDE 

(President  of  the  Pocatello  Stake  of  Zion) 

Perhaps  a  word  of  personal  mention  this  morning  would  be  ex- 
cusable. Under  the  rather  unprecedented  circumstances  in  which  I 
am  called  to  preside  over  this  meeting,  no  doubt  there  are  very  many 


ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  HYDE  99 

in  the  audience  who  are  not  acquainted  with  the  presiding  officer. 
I  am  William  A.  Hyde,  of  Pocatel'o.  You  have  frequently  heard  of 
the  town  in  Idaho,  no  doubt,  and  incidentally  have  heard  of  our  con- 
nection as  a  stake  with  the  Church ;  for  we  are  all  more  or  less  con- 
nected and  acquainted  with  the  history  of  the  Church  in  its  various 
departments  and  organizations. 

I  am  relieved  of  .some  embarrassment  this  morning  by  the  kind- 
ness of  President  Grant  in  asking  that  I  should  speak  first.  Other- 
wise, I  should  have  been  under  the  necessity  of  pushing  myself  forward 
into  a  place  that  otherwise  I  would  not  care  to  assume.  I  approach 
this  duty  and  this  opportunity  with  a  great  deal  of  pleasure,  from  the 
fact,  that  this  honor  has  been  given  me,  but  nevertheless  with  ap- 
prehension that  perhaps  I  may  not  be  able  to  acquit  myself  with  a 
degree  of  success  that  would  be  becoming.  There  are  perhaps  only 
two  or  three  other  presidents  of  stakes  in  the  Church  who  are  older  in 
seniority  than  I  am.  I  have  now  been  'laboring  in  the  ministry,  in 
this  capacity,  about  twenty-five  years,  and,  as  I  recall  it,  there  are 
only  two  or  three  others  who  have  been  in  the  service  longer. 

It  would  naturally  be  thought,  I  presume,  and  it  would  be  the 
logic  of  the  situation,  that  with  service  in  the  Church  there  should 
come  a  degree  of  wisdom  and  a  degree  of  experience ;  in  fact,  that  is 
what  the  Church  requires  of  its  men  and  of  its  women  and  expects 
of  them.  I  come  to  you  today  representing  a  part  of  the  Church 
which  has  as  deep  an  interest  in  the  growth  of  the  whole  as  perhaps 
any  other  part  of  the  Church,  and  is  keenly  alive,  I  believe,  to  the 
necessities  that  lie  before  this  great  work,  and  alive  to  the  ends  of 
our  heavenly  Father,  with  respect  to  us.  Never  have  I  had  the  op- 
portunity thus  of  confronting  an  audience  with  this  responsibility,  but 
I  feel  that  it  is  a  part  of  my  duty  to  turn  my  mind  with  full  earnest- 
ness of  purpose  to  make  this  meeting  in  harmony  with  the  grand 
meetings  of  this  conference  and  those  which  no  doubt  will  ensue. 

There  are  experiences  in  the  lives  of  all  men,  no  doubt,  that 
have  made  great  impressions  upon  their  minds.  Some  of  them  come 
to  us  early  in  life.  I  recall  one  now  through  which  I  passed  in 
the  early  days  of  my  ministry  that  has  been  of  great  value  to  me; 
in  fact,  has  been  one  of  the  leading  things  that  has  happened  in 
the  course  of  my  association  with  the  Church.  I  remember  that  in 
company  with  one  of  my  companions  I  started  upon  a  long  journey 
to  go  over  the  top  of  the  mountain  into  an  adjoining  valley  for  the 
purpose  of  a  certain  investigation.  Those  of  you  who  have  lived 
in  country  districts  and  have  made  journeys  of  this  character  will 
well  understand  now  what  I  am  about  to  say.  We  began  our  journey 
up  one  of  those  long,  apparently  interminable  trails  that  are  char- 
acteristic of  our  mountains,  passing  the  familiar  grades  and  varieties 
of  willows  and  brush  until  we  came,  at  last,  to  the  evidences  that 
pointed  to  the  fact  that  we  were  near  the  top  of  the  mountain — 
the  sparsely  growing  quaking  aspen  trees  and  other  evidences  showing 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  we  were  near  the  summit,  when  suddenly  there  came  upon  our 
view  a  most  unlooked  for  landscape.  It  .seems  that  the  Creator  had 
in  some  way  hollowed  out  a  miniature  amphitheatre  in  the  tops 
of  the  hills,  a  howl,  a  round  valley,  the  edges  of  it  fringed  with  pine 
trees.  In  the  bottom  of  this  little  valley  was  a  little  stream  of  water 
that  percolated  through  a  tiny  meadow.  There  were  no  evidences  of 
any  habitation  there  except  a  small  log  house,  with  its  accompanying 
outbuildings,  around  which  could  be  seen  a  few  of  the  ordinary  cattle 
that  men  in  farming  communities  usually  have. 

As  I  saw  this  rather  unusual  landscape,  the  thought  occurred 
to  me,  "What  can  this  man  see?"  I  learned  subsequently  that,  at 
periodical  times,  he  went  over  the  rim  of  the  valley  down  to  the  nearby 
station  to  get  his  mail,  but  otherwise  he  was  shut  out  from  the  world ; 
he  was  in  a  way  a  recluse,  he  was  what  you  might  term  a  hermit.  He 
lived  his  life  alone  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  surrounded  only  by 
his  few  stock  and  the  other  little  evidences  of  life,  and  perhaps  they 
had  a  small  family.  When  he  stood  out  at  his  door  at  night  he  could 
see  only  about  half  of  the  firmament.  The  stars  that  deck  the  sky 
for  you  and  me  who  live  upon  the  plain  were  not  observable  by  him. 
Perhaps  no  more  than  one  half  of  the  course  of  the  sun  could  he  ever 
see,  and  the  great  throbbing  world  around  and  about  him  never  was 
observed  by  him  except  upon  isolated  occasions.  And  I  thought, 
"How  like  man  in  general,  in  his  attitude  toward  life  and  education, 
and  the  things  that  are  best  in  the  world,  is  this  man  who  is  thus 
isolated  in  the  top  of  the  mountain !" 

And  from  that  I  drew  a  lesson  which  has  been  a  valuable  one  all 
the  days  of  my  life.  It  has  been  a  lesson  that  has  taught  me  the 
value  of  a  greater  outlook  and  view  of  things,  of  a  broader  perspective 
of  life,  and  of  the  things  with  which  we  are  surrounded  and  which 
go  to  make  up  our  present  life  and  that  eventually  will  make  up  our 
future  existence.  I  have  seen  men  worldly  wise  and  all-sufficient 
in  their  own  estimation,  who,  like  this  man,  though  unlike  him  in 
a  way  but  like  him  in  this,  surrounded  by  their  wall  of  self-sufficiency, 
so  that  they  have  not  been  able  to  look  out  upon  the  vast  acts 
and  purposes  and  opportunities  of  men  but  have  been  limited  to  their 
own  narrow  conclusions,  based  upon  their  self-sufficient  philosophy, 
and  I  have  thought,  "How  inadequate  are  these  men  for  all  work  of 
life,  how  insufficient  are  they  for  the  things  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
requires  of  them." 

Upon  the  other  hand  I  have  seen  men  in  humble  situations 
who  have  stood  upon  the  mountain  top  and  from  their  elevated  pin- 
nacle have  viewed  the  varied  course  of  events,  and  it  seems  to  me  some- 
times have  been  able  to  look  clown  to  the  great  finale  of  things.  I 
have  thought  with  re'ation  to  this  lesson  that  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  from  his  outlook  and  from  the  standpoint  from  which  he  viewed 
matters,  knew  more  about  the  planets,  the  firmament,  the  great  heaven 


ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  HYDE 


101 


of  heavens  than  you  and  I  know  about  the  little  potato  patch  that  we 
cultivate  in  our  back  garden. 

And  I  have  from  it  drawn  many  a  lesson  that  has  been  of  comfort 
and  of  value  to  me  in  my  ministry  among  the  people.  I  have  drawn 
from  it  the  lesson  of  the  value  of  perspective,  the  ability  to  see  and  to 
place  together  things  in  their  proper  relations  as  to  distance  and  as 
to  size  and  as  to  importance.  I  have  learned  that  one  who  from 
proper  distances  may  view  the  scenes  of  events,  to  him  the  scars,  the 
crudities  of  life,  the  things  that  wound  and  hurt,  are  lost  in  the 
general  view,  just  as  one  looks  down  upon  the  valley  from  the  top  of 
one  of  these  hills,  where  now  there  may  be  gullies  and  crude  forma- 
tions of  earth,  and  may  see  the  plain  one  vast  carpet,  as  of  some 
vast  Axminster  rug  spread  out  beneath  the  sun.  Distance  takes  from 
us  the  sting  and  the  hurt  of  things,  and  gives  us  a  better  view  of  the 
proper  relation  and  quality  of  men  and  their  actions. 

And  from  it  I  have  drawn  this  conclusion,  that  we  are  too  near 
to  our  men  today  to  properly  understand  the  fine  motives  that  actuate 
them.  I  believe  that  one  hundred  years  from  now  we  may  look  back 
upon  this  time  in  which  we  are  now  living,  and  some  historian  may 
say  with  full  confidence,  and  with  just  as  much  authority  as  any 
historian  who  has  ever  written,  that  in  this  day  in  which  we  now  live 
certain  men  spoke  and  directed,  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Then  from  that  distance  we  may  see  and  recognize  the  pro- 
phetic word  and  the  prophet,  just  as  well  as  we  now  recognize  the 
prophet  of  olden  times.  And  men  who  stand  in  our  midst  today 
and  who  have  stood  among  us,  who  by  reason  of  our  very  nearness, 
and  of  our  close  association  with  them,  have  lost  in  a  degree  that 
certain  sacredness  of  character  which  attaches  to  a  prophet — that 
having  been  removed  by  time — we  may  classify  them  among  the  prophets 
of  whom  ancient  history  speaks.  Even  now  at  this  time  there  is 
one  enshrined  just  so  in  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  He  is 
removed  from  us  by  a  hundred  years,  or  nearly  so,  and  today  he  has 
assumed  a  new  form  and  aspect  in  life  and  he  has  become  to  us  just 
as  surely  and  as  certainly  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  as  ever  any  man 
that  lived  to  whom  that  title  has  been  given. 

And  so,  let  me  assure  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  especially 
my  young  friends  who  may  be  listening  to  me  today,  these  men  who 
now  stand  among  us  are  invested  with  that  authority  that  empowers 
them  to  speak  the  word  of  God  and  speak  with  just  the  same  convincing- 
force  as  did  any  man  who  ever  lived  upon  the  earth  who  presumed 
to  speak  in  the  name  of.  our  heavenly  Father.  And  so  I  have  learned 
from  these  things  the  value  of  perspective,  the  right  way  to  look  at 
things,  the  way  to  disassociate  ourselves  from  the  nearness  of  the 
present,  and  to'  see  men  as  if  they  were  afar  off,  and  under  the 
influence  that  time  always  casts  upon  men. 

I  have  learned  this  also,  the  value  of  patience.  Events  fly  so 
swiftly  by  us  that  they  are  not  seen  in  their  proper  relation.  We 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


little  understand  the  movement  of  time.  It  takes  time  to  bring  to 
pass  the  fruition  of  God's  purposes.  Not  always  are  the  combinations 
seen  in  a  few  years,  in  a  generation  even.  Men  and  women  plod  out 
their  slow  lives  in  their  menial  duties,  and  in  the  offices  and  callings 
that  come  to  mortality,  sometimes  fretting  and  sometimes  wondering 
if  God  will  never  justify  their  sacrifices ;  but  lo,  and  behold,  a  gen- 
eration passes ;  their  sons  follow  them  and  their  sons'  sons  stand  in 
their  stead ;  and  lo,  the  work  of  the  Lord  has  been  accomplished 
in  the  thing  that  they  hitherto  had  undertaken!  A  pioneer  goes  into 
a  far  distant  country.  In  travail,  trouble,  poverty  and  distress,  he 
plows  the  ground,  sows  and  reaps,  and  sees  the  fruitage  gone  year 
after  year,  perhaps,  but  finally  the  culmination  comes,  where  a  temple 
is  reared  upon  the  very  place  he  first  set  his  foot,  and  the  land  blossoms 
under  the  blessing  of  the  Almighty.  He  was  the  beginning  of  it,  the 
one  who  spread  the  way  and  who  opened  up  the  means  for  the  ac- 
complishment of  the  thing  that  ultimately  the  Lord,  onr  heavenly 
Father,  gave  to  him  and  to  his  succeeding  generations. 

And  so,  I  have  learned  the  lessons  of  patience,  and  in  my  ministry 
I  have  occasion,  time  and  again,  to  say  to  people,  "We  are  like 
the  waves  of  the  sea ;  now  we  are  upon  the  crest  of  success,  and  again 
we  are  down  in  the  troughs  of  the  ocean ;  have  patience,  my  friends, 
the  time  will  come  when  your  bark  will  be  lifted  upon  the  crest 
again,  and  you  will  see  out  upon  the  broad  expanse  of  waters."  How 
applicable  this  lesson  may  be  to  those  who  are  in  distress,  at  the 
present  day,  I  think  we  may  well  consider. 

We  have  been  passing  through  times  of  intense  commercial  tra- 
vail and  trouble.  Many  and  many  are  the  good  men  and  good  women 
who  have  been  down  in  the  very  bottom  of  despondency,  due  to  these 
unusual  conditions  through  which  we  have  passed.  Nevertheless,  by 
a  proper  understanding  of  God's  purposes,  and  by  a  proper  estimation 
of  our  strength,  we  may  hold  out  firmly  to  the  end,  until  these  things 
shall  have  passed  and  prosperity  shall  again  come  to  us.  Thus  I 
know  that  the  Lord  decrees  that  men  shall  have  patience ;  that  they 
shall  endure;  that  it  is  not  his  purpose  that  in  any  man  or  any  gen- 
eration of  men  shall  all  things  be  culminated ;  but  that  we,  following 
one  after  another  in  the  line  of  our  activities  and  of  oar  peopling  of 
the  earth,  constitute  the  grand  whole  of  which  God's  plan  is  made. 
We  today  are  contributing  lo  the  success  of  tomorrow ;  and,  through- 
out the  Church  of  Christ,  there  should  run  the  element  of  patience 
and  of  faith,  in  the  thought  that  eventually  there  will  come  success 
to  all  those  who  sincerely  trust  in  him.  and  ■  patiently  abide  the  day 
of  his  vindication. 

Speaking  of  the  attitude  which  men  assume  and  from  which 
they  may  view,  I  had  a  rather  unusual  experience  this  morning  that 
fits  in  nicely  with  the  theme  that  I  have  undertaken.  Coming  down 
the  street,  I  passed  a  man  whom  I  have  known  for  years,  a  poor 
old  cripple,  who  must  be  now  seventy-five  years  of  age,  who  dragged 


ELDER  WILLIAM  A.  HYDE 


103 


one  foot  slowly  behind  the  other,  in  evident  pain  as  he  traveled, 
but  nevertheless  with  a  contented  look  upon,  his  face,  (his  good 
old  wife  with  her  arm  in  his,  helping  him  along  the  .sidewalk.  And 
just  after  I  had  bade  them  good  morning,  and  had  passed  my  saluta- 
tion with  him  as  an  old  friend  whom  I  had  known  formerly  in  the 
stake  over  which  I  preside,  he  called  to  me  and  said,  "Brother  Hyde, 
do  you  know  about  my  genealogy?"  Why  no,  I  did  not  know 
about  it.  Said  he,  "We  have  the  names  of  ten  thousand  people,  and 
we  have  done  the  work  for  four  thousand  of  them."  And  then  there 
was  a  happy  look  of  anticipation  upon  his  face.  I  thought  I  could 
see  the  unuttered  thought  in  his  mind,  "What  a  joy  and  pleasure  it  will 
be  to  do  the  work  for  the  other  six  thousand  of  them."  And,  as 
I  turned  from  him,  I  thought,  "This  man  with  his  dragging  foot, 
drawn  in  pain  along  the  sidewalk,  is  far  above  the  ordinary  man, 
he  is  lifted  upon  the  wings  of  the  spirit,  that  has  taken  him  above 
the  mountain  top.  He  looks  down  upon  us,  I  think,  from  his  lofty 
station,  perhaps  with  a  degree  of  pity — upon  those  who  do  not  see 
as  he  does."  And  I  thought,  "How  glorious  is  this  work  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints!  How  superior  their  thought,  in  a  way,  to  the  wisdom  of 
men !  How  broad  and  expansive  are  their  conceptions  of  the  almighty 
purposes  of  our  heavenly  Father !  They  are  not  recluses ;  they  are 
not  hermits;  from  the  standpoint  to  which  God  has  led  them  by 
his  revelations,  they  look  forth  upon  the  work  which  comprises  and 
embraces  not  only  the  scheme  of  mortality,  but  all  the  vast  concourse 
of  the  sons  of  men  from  the  beginning  of  time." 

And  so,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  take  these  lessons  from 
these  observations  which  you,  no  doubt,  have  seen  as  I  have  seen 
and  recounted,  to  have  patience,  and  faith,  and  to  seek  to  come  out 
from  the  narrow  limits  of  our  own  self-sufficiency,  to  emerge  from 
that  species  of  confidence  which  sometimes  comes  to  the  Latter-day 
Saint  and  makes  him  think  that  he  and  his  people  are  all  there  are 
who  are  associated  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  like  to  take  the  broader 
view,  that  God,  through  men,  is  working  out  his  purposes,  and  that 
he  is  bringing  to  pass,  from  all  directions  and  from  all  sources,  the 
things  that  will  contribute  to  the  glory  of  his  name;  and  that  in- 
ventois,  poets,  and  workers  in  all  lines  of  thought  are  doing  perhaps 
unconsciously  the  very  thing  that  God  would  have  them  do.  So, 
with  faith  thus  pitched  and  attuned  to  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty, 
let  us  go  forward  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  to  serve  him  and  keep 
the  commandments,  in  faith,  believing,  and  with  vision  seeing  the 
wonderful  things  that  God  has  in  store  for  his,people. 

May  his  Spirit  be  in  the  minds  and  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  spur  them  on  to  renewed  activity  and  faith  in  this  great  and 
glorious  work  which  has  been  given  to  us  to  accomplish  in  these  the 
last  days.   This  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission) 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  led  to 
say  what,  the  Lord  would  have  me  say  on  this  occasion,  that  our 
meeting  here  together  may  be  beneficial  unto  all,  that  we  may  go 
home  and  feel  that  this  part  of  our  conference  was  in  harmony  with 
the  preceding  sessions.  I  have  been  greatly  encouraged  in  my  faith 
through  the  sessions  of  the  conference  this  year  and  by  the  splendid 
instruction  given  by  those  who  preside  over  us  and  by  the  other 
speakers,  who  have  taught  the  principles  of  the  gospel  pertaining  to 
life  and  salvation.  I  think  I  have  never  been  more  impressed  with 
the  greatness  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Men  and  women  are  gathered  from  great  distances  to  this  conference, 
from  many  states  of  the  United  States,  and  also  from  Canada  and 
Mexico,  and  are  come  here  to  receive  instruction  concerning  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  to  confer  with  one  another,  and  to  receive  counsel, 
advice,  and  inspiration  so  necessary  in  carrying  on  the  work  of  our 
Father  in  the  different  places  where  they  have  been  called  upon  to 
take  positions  of  trust.  The  great  majority  of  people  who  have 
gathered  here  are  men  and  women  who  have  been  called  upon  to 
represent  the  Lord  in  their  own  home  or  section,  and  it  is  a  very 
representative  body,  and  the  body  of  representatives  are  reinforced 
by  members  of  their  own  home  town  and  ward  and  stake,  who  have 
come  here  to  aid  and  assist  them,  so  that  the  work  of  God  may  con- 
tinue to  grow.  There  is  absolutely  no  question  as  to  the  success  of 
the  work  of  God  under  such  splendid  organization.  It  could  not  be 
duplicated  in  all  the  world.  There  is  no  organization  to  compare 
with  the  restored  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  here  in  the  earth.  This 
is  the  Church  of  God,  represented  by  his  Priesthood,  his  power,  here 
upon  the  earth,  and  it  is  a  medium  by  which  men  and  women  may 
return  unto  him.  And  those  who  fail  to  accept  or  who  reject  the 
glad  message  which  the  Lord  has  revealed,  shall  not  have  the  hap- 
piness that  comes  to  those  who  shall  inherit  a  glory  wherein  he 
rules  and  reigns. 

We  find  scripture  to  give  us  encouragement  both  at  home  and 
abroad.  A  few  years  ago,  when  I  went  into  the  mission  field,  a 
gentleman  was  on  the  train  with  me,  and  the  train  was  so  crowded 
that  we  had  to  stand  up  from  here  to  Provo.  He  was  a  stranger  to 
me.  for  I  had  never  seen  him  before,  and  did  not  even  know  who 
he  was,  but  he  told  me  to  read,  on  reaching  my  mission  field,  the  84th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  called  my  attention  to 
some  of  the  blessings  which  the  Lord  had  placed  at  my  disposal.  He 
.  pointed  to  the  65th  verse,  down  to  the  90th.  I  shall  not  read  them 
all.  He  said,  "When  you  get  out  there,  and  you  are  alone,  and  you 
find  that  you  are  far  away  from  home,  among  strangers,  in  a  strange 
land,  without  any  experience,  you  will  learn  that  the  Lord  has  pro- 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


vided  for  you,  so  that  you  shall  not  be  alone,  and  you  shall  have 
his  Spirit  for  your  companion."  And  so  I  found  the  scripture  as 
he  had  referred  me  to  it: 

"Behold,  I  send  you  out  to  reprove  the  world  of  all  their  unrighteous 
deeds,  and  to  teach  them  of  a  judgment  which  is  to  come. 

"And  whoso  receiveth  you,  there  I  will  be  also,  for  I  will  go  before 
your  face.  I  will  be  on  your  right  hand  and  on  your  left,  and  my  Spirit  shall 
be  in  your  hearts,  and  mine  angels  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up." — 
(Verses  87-88.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  was  never  anything  more  true  than 
that  promise  which  God  gives  to  those  who  represent  him.  And  with 
my  experience  in  the  mission  field,  I  have  concluded  that  these  truths 
and  promises  not  only  apply  to  the  mission  field,  but  to  men  and 
women  at  home — those  who  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  the  Lord, — - 
who  labor  in  their  weakness,  with  a  determination  to  serve  him. 
Nothing  can  be  found  in  the  world  equal  to  it — where  our  Father, 
who  gave  us,  his  children,  the  privilege  to  come  into  the  world,  has 
said,  when  we  go  out  in  the  world,  if  we  will  keep  his  commandments, 
as  we  have  been  taught  them,  and  as  President  Grant  reminded  us 
yesterday  morning,  the  Lord  will  be  with  us :  "I  will  be  on  your 
right  hand  and  on  your  left,  and  I  will  go  before  your  face,  and  mine 
ange's  shall  be  round  about  you,  to  bear  you  up."  And  he  said  further 
that  any  one  who  shall  not  fail  to  continue  faithful  in  these  things, 
"shall  not  be  weary  in  body  or  in  mind,  neither  in  limb  nor  joint,  and 
an  hair  of  his  head  shall  not  fall  to  the  ground  unnoticed." 

I  am,  of  course,  as  you  are  aware,  more  closely  associated  with 
men  and  women  in  the  ministry,  away  from  the  stakes  of  Zicn. 
These  words  mean  that  the  Lord  is  with  the  boys  and  girls 
of  yours,  with  as  much  power  as  he  ever  was  in  the  earth,  and 
that  they  may  possess  the  same  faith  their  fathers  and  their  grand- 
fathers possessed,  even  from  the  day  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Only 
this  past  winter  we  have  had  missionaries  out  in  the  field  traveling 
without  money ;  walking  through  the  country  wherever  their  duties 
called  them,  among  entire  strangers,  to  places,  where  elders  had  not 
been  for  at  least  twenty  years — and  in  twenty  years'  time  a  new 
population  almost  grows  up  in  a  country.  They  have  been  cared  for 
night  and  day,  never  having  to  buy  a  meal,  never  having  to  pay 
for  a  bed,  and  the  Lord  has  gone  before  their  faces,  his  influence 
and  his  power  with  them,  so  that  they  were  fed  and  cared  for  until 
they  were  under  no  expense  at  all.  When  you  think  that  missionaries 
in  our  field  have  gone  through  the  early  part  of  this  year,  three 
months  some  of  them,  with  an  expense  of  only  $5  per  month,  it  is 
almost  unbelievable.  And  it  could  not  be  done,  anywhere  in  the  world, 
except  under  the  direction  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  It  was  he  who 
died  on  Calvary  for  you  and  for  me ;  it  was  he  who  gave  his  life 
that  we  might  live ;  it  was  he  who  bought  and  paid  for  the  human 
family  with  his  blood.    He  is  at  the  head,  and  he  directs  the  forces 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  earth,  and  he  gives  men  their  privilege  to  accept  him  or  to 
reject  him.  But  he  is  there  with  those  who  desire  to  serve  him 
and  keep  his  commandments,  and  men  can  grow  as  close  to  our  Father 
here  in  mortality  today  as  they  ever  did  in  any  time  of  the  world's 
history.  There  never  was  greater  organization  in  the  earth  than 
in  this  Church.  It  is  most  perfect.  There  is  no  need  for  a  man  or 
woman  to  be  idle.  They  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  this  great 
work  of  God,  whether  at  home  or  abroad. 

And  I  might  read  to  you  some  scripture  that  has  been  given 
unto  us  along  that  very  line  in  these  last  days,  for  all  scripture 
has  been  given  unto  us  for  our  benefit.  If  we  do  not  read  it  or 
become  acquainted  with  it,  we  do  not  know  or  ever  realize  or  under- 
stand the  real  joy  and  pleasure  of  putting  our  faith  and  trust  in 
the  Lord. 

The  Lord  says,  "Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  en- 
gaged in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will, 
and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ;  for  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good, 
they  shall  in  no  wise  lose  their  reward."  (D.  &  C.  58:27,  28.) 

There  is  the  principle  of  free  agency,  which  the  Lord  gives  unto 
every  one  of  his  children  when  they  come  into  the  world.  You  can 
do  as  you  please.  We  all  learned  many  things  before  we  came  to  the 
earth,  as  a  result  of  our  experience  under  the  direction  of  our  heavenly 
Father  in  that  ante-mortal  state,  where  our  Father  guided  the  destiny 
of  all  of  us,  according  to  our  faithfulness  there,  and  then  gave  unto 
us  the  privilege  of  coming  into  the  world  and  receiving  this  power 
of  free  agency.  And  he  says  that  we  should  be  anxious  concerning 
his  work. 

Some  missionaries  go  out  into  the  field  and  travel  free,  and  there 
is  not  anything  that  would  hinder  them  from  making  a  success.  They 
have  a  desire  to  proclaim  the  gospel.  They  are  not  fearful  of  men.  They 
are  only  fearful  of  their  own  weaknesses,  and  that  is  the  normal  condi- 
tion of  a  true  missionary  in  this  Church ;  they  do  not  fear  men,  but  they 
fear  the  Lord,  and  they  rely,  and  know  they  must  rely,  upon  him  for 
their  success.  But  they  go  out  and  arrange  meetings,  and  it  is  nothing 
unusual  at  all  for  boys  in  their  teens  to  go  and  arrange  meetings 
where  they  .speak,  every  night  in  the  week.  To  me  it.  is  a  marvel  and 
a  wonder  that  they  are  able  to  do  it.  Congregations  of  people  come 
and  fill  the  little  chapels  or  schoolhouses,  wherever  they  may  have 
the  privilege  of  preaching.  And  many  have  been  brought  into  this 
Church  as  a  result  of  it.  The  opinions  of  thousands  of  people  have 
been  changed  as  a  result  of  the  ministry  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
through  the  missionaries  of  the  Church,  in  these  the  last  days,  and 
in  my  time,  in  this  dispensation. 

If  men  are  anxious  concerning  their  work,  how  easy  it  is!  If 
we  will  just  make  up  our  mind  to  do  it,  and  we  fail  not  to  continue 
faithful  in  these  things,  the  Lord  will  open  up  the  way,  provide  for 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


107 


us,  so  that  we  can  reach  the  people.  And  it  is  not  difficult  to  change  the 
opinions  of  men  and  women  if  we  proceed  in  the  way  which  the  Lord 
has  counseled.  There  is  just  as  much  power  in  prayer  and  in  the 
faith  that  comes  as  a  result  of  prayer  today,  as  there  was  in  the 
days  of  Abraham  or  preceding  him  or  following  hint.  There  never 
was  any  more  power  given  unto  men  in  the  earth  than  at  the  present 
time.  Missionaries  have  gone  forth  today  as  they  did  in  the  days  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  the  days  Brigham  Young,  and  in  the  days  of 
John  Taylor  and  all  those  mighty  men  who  laid  the  foundation  for 
this  great  work  of  God,  of  which  we  are  enjoying  so  much  the 
blessings  at  the  present  time.  Missionaries  are  now  being  raised  up 
from  among  the  rank  and  file  in  all  parts  of  the  Church,  who  go 
out  and  test  the  gospel  and  the  promises  of  the  Lord,  and  have  found 
faith  in  the  earth,  just  as  much  as  they  did  fifty,  seventy-five,  or 
more,  years  ago,  even  back  unto  the  time  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  The  work  is  not  failing;  it  is  absolutely  impossible  for  the 
work  of  God  to  fail.  When  I  think  of  the  care  that  is  given  to  the 
details  of  this  Church — I  feel  in  my  heart  to  say  that  in  my  experience 
I  have  never  seen  any  person  more  careful  over  details  than  the 
present  President  of  this  Church,  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  devotes  his 
entire  time  to  the  work,  I  am  reminded  of  the  fact,  that  he 
is  anxiously  engaged  in  the  great  cause  of  the  Lord ;  he  is  commanded 
only  of  God,  and  he  sets  to  the  people  the  proper  example,  and  as 
a  result  the  work  is  becoming  greater  and  more  glorious.  To  me  it 
is  a  marvel  and  a  wonder.  Men  arise  everywhere  in  defense  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  The  people  of  the  earth  are  anxiously  waiting  for 
the  gospel.  I  do  not  blame  people,  in  a  way,  for  rejecting  the  testi- 
mony of  men  whom  they  do  not  know  anything  about.  Men  and 
women  have  to  be  melted.  Why,  this  Church  would  not  succeed  at 
all  if  it  were  not  for  the  fact  that  the  people  are  called  together  in 
the  ward  once  or  twice  or  thrice  a  week  by  a  careful,  faithful  bishop, 
and  if  those  wards  were  not  called  together  under  direction  of  the  stake 
presidency,  who  give  all  the  care  to  details  that  they  know  how, 
and  in  addition  to  that  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church  visit  them 
and  talk  to  them,!  In  addition  to  that,  they  are  called  together  twice 
a  year  in  great  conference  assembled,  and  they  are  there  taught  the 
principles  of  the  everlasting  gospel,  as  the  Lord  has  revealed  it,  from 
those  whom  the  Lord  calls  to  speak,  and  as  a  result  the  Church  moves 
forward  in  its  great,  mighty  march  and  improvement  as  the  years 
come  and  go,  and  among  these  men  and  women  will  be  found  the  faith 
of  Israel.  Why,  the  faith  of  Israel  will  be  greater  next  year  than 
it  is  this.  The  Church  will  never  be  weaker  than  it  is  today,  and  it 
never  was  stronger  than  it  is  today.  Men  shall  arise  from  among 
the  wards  and  stakes  of  this  Zion  who  shall  make  apostles  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  who  shall  be  the  ones  who  will  build  on  the  foundation 
that  God  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  they  will  carry 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


on  this  work  until  we  shall  arrive  at  the  time  when  the  Christ  shall 
come. 

There  is  absolutely  no  possibility  of  failure,  neither  is  there  any 
man  who  can  disprove  the  work  of  the  Lord.  A  man  may  say  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  not  a  prophet,  or  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  not 
true.  He  only  tells  what  he  thinks  is  the  truth ;  but  a  man  who  has 
not  made  an  investigation  of  the  Lord's  work  in  this  dispensation, 
who  has  not  made  it  a  matter  of  prayer  and  faith  and  been  honest 
and  square,  that  man  is  not  a  good  judge.  And  if  he  were  honest 
and  true,  he  would  have  to  say  that  he  does  believe  Joseph  Smith  to 
be  a  prophet ;  and  the  same  argument  would  hold  good  with  the  Book 
of  Mormon  or  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  requires  faith,  at- 
tention, devotion,  and  the  heart  of  a  man,  to  know  this  word  of  God. 

Here  we  are  in  mortality,  having  been  given  our  free  agency  to 
do  as  we  would  do,  and  if  we  ever  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth 
and  walk  through  mortality  under  the  divine  guidance  of  that  truth, 
we  must  be  governed  and  controlled  by  the  principle  of  faith  and  the 
principle  of  desire,  and  be  anxious  in  our  hearts  concerning  our  life 
here  in  mortality.  And  so  it  is  with  men  and  women  abroad,  they 
have  to  come  out  of  the  conditions  in  which  they  are,  slipping,  strug- 
gling along,  not  knowing  the  true  way  of  life.  And  my  heart  goes 
out  to  the  children  of  men  here  in  mortality.  I  have  made  it  a 
point  never  to  offend  men  or  women.  I  have  gone  out  of  the  way 
many  times  in  my  experience,  just  to  make  a  friend.  It  is  not 
anything  to  me  at  all,  so  far  as  a  personal  reward  on  earth  is  con- 
cerned, but  it  is  to  me,  so  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned,  my  duty. 
Those  people  are  not  to  blame.  They  have  grown  up  as  Methodists 
and  Presbyterians  and  Baptists  and  Catholics,  and  they  are  firm  in 
the  belief  of  their  fathers.  They  have  faith  in  their  fathers'  work, 
and  they  are  not  to  blame.  We  can  afford  to  be  charitable;  as  we 
plead  for  God,  our  eternal  Father,  to  be  charitable  and  kind  unto  us, 
so  we  must  likewise  be  kind  and  charitable  unto  those  among  whom 
we  are  called  upon  to  live  and  labor  here  in  mortality.  These  prin- 
ciples should  guide  us  every  day.  And  Oh !  what  a  glorious  oppor- 
tunity we  have  here  in  mortality  to  acquit  ourselves  like  men  and 
women,  and  to  become  as  fountains  of  living  water  unto  the  children 
of  men,  among  whom  we  labor.  God  is  at  the  helm  and  directs  the 
work.  He  will  see  that  it  does  not  fail.  We  may  fail,  but  his 
work  will  not  fail,  because  others  will  carry  on  the  great  work  of 
God,  until  every  man  and  every  woman  has  had  an  opportunity, 
either  here  in  mortality  or  in  the  spirit  world,  to  hear  and  accept  the 
truth.  Then  they  may  say,  if  they  desire,  it  is  true,  or  it  is  not  true, 
according  to  their  findings.  - 

May  the  Lord  give  you  and  me  the  privilege  of  walking  uprightly 
before  him.  May  he  encourage  us,  and  may  we  live  so  that  we  may 
feel  that  encouraging  life  and  spirit  with  us,  and  not  be  discouraged. 
May. we  be  anxious  concerning  his  work,  and  of  our  own  free  will 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


109 


go  on  and  develop  the  character  that  we  brought  to  this  world  with 
us  as  a  result  of  our  experience  with  him. 

May  we  have  the  power  to  reject  evil,  may  we  always  stand  for 
the  testimony  of  Jesus  and  for  his  authority  in  the  earth.  May  we 
make  .men  and  women  strong  who  hold  positions  of  trust  in  his  great 
Church  in  the  earth.  May  we  respect  the  teacher  and  the  ward 
auxiliary  officer ;  may  we  uphold  the  bishop  as  the  father  of  the 
ward,  and  his  counselors  and  his  assistants,  and  these  stake  presi- 
dents and  high  councilors  who  preside  in  the  different  parts  of  the 
Church.  May  we  uphold  their  authority  as  the  authority  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  May  we  keep  the  principle  of  loyalty  and  love  in  our 
homes  and  in  the  Church  at  home.  Then  may  we  stand  for  God's  author- 
ity here  in  this  earth — President  Heber  J.  Grant,  whom  the  Lord  chose 
and  raised  up  to  lead  us  in  these  clays,  as  you  may  all  read  and 
learn,  because  it  is  all  recorded  in  the  history  of  this  Church  how  the 
Lord  raised  him  up.  And  the  Lord  will  raise  others  up.  He  has 
left  us  a  history,  a  written  history,  a  testimony  in  addition  to  that  of 
man ;  so  that  we  may  know  the  truth,  so  that  we  may  know  where 
we  stand,  and  that  we  may  not  be  deceived.  May  he  give  us  the 
blessings  of  faith  and  hope  and  courage,  that  we  may  keep  this  work 
of  his  foremost  in  our  minds  always,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSHUA  H.  PAUL 

(Of  the  University  of  Utah) 

One  of  the  most  remarkable  fallacies  of  modern  times  was  well 
stated  a  few  years  ago  by  the  late  Professor  Huxley,  the  leader  of 
advanced  thought,  whose  views  on  scientific  truth  were  perhaps  more 
widely  accepted  than  those  of  any  other  man  of  his  day.  In  a 
lecture,  first  delivered  in  1866,  and  extensively  quoted  ever  since  (as 
in  Ayedelotte,  English  for  Engineers,  page  207),  this  great  scientist 
says  that  the  business  of  thinkers  of  the  Middle  Ages  was  to  deduce, 
from  data  furnished  by  the  theologians,  conclusions  that  agreed  with 
the  decrees  of  the  Church ;  that  to  them  nature  had  no  fixed  order ; 
"that  when  good  authority  has  pronounced  what  is  to  be  believed 
and  faith  has  accepted  it,  reason  has  no  further  duty."  He  adds  that 
many  excellent  people  still  hold  these  convictions,  and  goes  on  to  argue 
that  the  improvement  of  natural  knowledge  is  effected  by  methods 
that  directly  give  the  lie  to  all  these  convictions.  Then  he  says : 
"The  improver  of  natural  knowledge  absolutely  refuses  to  acknowl- 
edge authority  as  such.  For  him  skepticism  is  the  highest  of  duties ; 
blind  faith,  the  one  unpardonable  sin.  The  votary  of  science  holds 
his  firmest  convictions,  not  because  the  men  he  most  venerates  hold 
them,  not  because  they  are  verified  by  portents  and  wonders,  but  be- 
cause whenever  he  brings  these  convictions  into  contact  with  nature, 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


nature  verifies  them.  The  man  of  science  has  learned  to  believe  in 
"justification,  not  by  faith,  but  by  experiment." 

As  far  as  I  know,  no  very  definite  answer  to  the  indictment 
which  Huxley  so  shrewdly  brought  against  the  cardinal  principle  of 
religion  has  yet  been  made  by  the  Christian  world  at  large.  If  any 
such  answer  has  been  made,  I  shall  be  under  great  obligations  to 
any  one  who  will  bring  it  to  my  attention.  Yet  it  is  well  known 
among  our  own  people  that  experiment  has  exactly  the  same  function  in 
religion  that  it  has  in  scientific  knowledge,  and  is  the  test,  in  fact, 
of  religious  as  well  as  of  all  other  forms  of  truth.  When  our  parents 
walked  across  the  plains,  as  so  many  thousands  of  them  did,  was  this 
not  an  experiment?  Did  they  not  thereby  put  to  the  test  these  words 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior:  "If  any  man  shall  do  his  will,  [the  Father's] 
he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I 
speak  of  myself."  In  other  words,  men  are  here  bidden  to  make 
the  experiment  and  to  learn  for  themselves  the  truth.  Real  faith  does 
not  rest  upon  belief  in  authority.  It  is  tested  and  confirmed  by  ex- 
periment— not  by  an  experiment  performed  upon  a  table  in  a  corner 
of  a  laboratory  or  under  a  microscope  or  in  test  tubes,  but  in  the 
broad  field  of  life  and  in  such  a  way  as  to  involve  all  the  powers 
of  man.  True,  it  is  not  the  result  of  doubt ;  it  rests  first  upon  testimony 
given  by  others ;  but  so  also  does  scientific  knowledge.  For  the 
scientist  hears  of  a  theory  or  principle,  and  then  proceeds  to  test  it 
'by  experiment.  The  believer  hears  the  good  news  that  God  lives  and 
has  revealed  himself  to  man,  and  he  accepts  the  testimony.  But  he 
immediately  proceeds  to  test  it  in  many  ways,  just  as  the  scientist 
pioceeds  to  test  natural  knowledge.  The  only  difference  between 
the  two  kinds  of  belief  is  that  faith  rests  upon  and  is  verified  by 
spiritual  experience,  while  scientific  faith  rests  upon  physical  ex- 
perience. In  both,  the  process  of  experiment  is  carried  on ;  in  both,  the 
words  of  others  are  at  first  to  some  extent  relied  upon ;  and  in 
both,  subsequent  experiments  or  experience  will  be  necessary  finally 
to  prove  or  disprove  what  is  accepted  as  probably  true — the  testimony 
of  competent  and  trusted  witnesses.  The  Latter-day  Saints  almost 
daily  make  the  true  answer  to  the  criticisms  of  Mr.  Huxley.  They 
may  not  know  that  they  are  answering  the  skeptic  when  they  make 
the  claim  that  the  all-important  part  of  their  religion  is  a  testimony  of 
the  truth — a  feeling  of  certitude  that  the  gospel  message  is  true.  They 
say  that  every  one  may  have  this  testimony,  this  feeling  of  certainty, 
if  he  will  only  live  for  it;  if  he  will  only  take  heaven  at  its  word  and 
do  the  will  of  the  Father.  We  say  it  is  the  most  important  thing  in 
life  to  lay  hold  of.  It  is  not  a  theory,  not  a  theological  definition, 
not  a  dictum  from  the  dark  ages,  but  something  to  work  at  with  your 
hands,  not  an  abstraction ;  something  to  live  for,  something  for  which 
to  aspire,  something  to  be  learned  and  re-learned,  something  old  but 
ever  new. 

When,  therefore,  my  mother,  like  many  of  yours  in  this  audience, 
walked  across  the  plains  to  come  to  Zion, — was  this  a  theory,  a  de- 


ELDER  JOSHUA  H.  PAUL 


111 


finition,  a  blind  following  of  those  in  authority?  Or  was  it  not  an 
experiment  of  great  magnitude  and  reality?  Not  all,  of  course,  in 
order  to  test  the  promises  of  the  Almighty,  can  undergo  such  an  ex- 
perience as  crossing  the  plains  afoot,  but  there  are  universal  tests — 
tests  for  every  one — tests  that  no  one  can  avoid — experiences  or  ex- 
periments that  are  arranged  for  all  of  us  irrespective  of  our  own 
choosing;  and  these  commonly  bring  us  to  our  senses,  till  we  come  to 
realize,  even  in  our  misfortunes,  that  God  lives  and  all  i,s  well.  For 
example :  when  a  boy,  I  learned  from  my  Wilson  Reader  a  poem, 
"The  Little  Boy  that  Died ;"  but  not  till  I  was  grown  and  had  the 
same  experience  that  the  author  had,  did  I  understand  the  meaning  of 
his  verses.  Now  his  verse  seems  to  me  to  go  far  toward  proving  that 
we  shall  meet  them  again — all  whom  we  have  loved  and  lost.  So 
when  the  Lady  Lucile  of  our  household  died,  we  were  ready  only 
then  to  understand  the  scripture  that  she  is  not  dead,  not  asleep,  not 
gone.  She  is  only  in  the  presence  of  our  Father,  and  he  is  with  us, 
if  we  abide  in  him.  Rossiter  Raymond  thus  brought  these  truths  to  our 
attention : 

"Beside  the  dead  I  knelt  in  prayer, 

And  felt  a  presence  as  I  prayed; 
Lo!  it  was  Jesus  standing  there. 

He  smiled,  'Be  not  afraid.' 

"  'Lord,  thou  hast  conquered  death,  we  know; 

Restore  again  to  life,'  I  said, 
'This  one  who  died  an  hour  ago.' 

He  smiled,  'She  is  not  dead.' 

"  'Asleep,  then,  as  thyself  didst  say, 

Yet  thou  canst  lift  the  lids  that  keep 
Her  prisoned  eyes  from  ours  away.' 

He  smiled,  'She  doth  not  sleep.' 

"  'Nay,  then,  though  haply  she  doth  wake 

And  look  upon  some  fairer  dawn, 
Restore  her  to  our  hearts  that  ache.' 

He  smiled,  'She  is  not  gone.' 

"  'Yea,  Lord  we  feel  that  she  is  free, 

And  moves  upon  some  higher  sphere; 
We  are  bereft;  she  is  with  thee.' 

He  smiled,  'And  I  am  here!' 

"'Dear  God!  how  can  we  know  that  they 

Still  walk  unseen  with  us  and  thee, 
Nor  sleep,  nor  wander  far  away?' 

He  smiled,  'Abide  in  me.'  " 

If  we  perforin  the  great  experiment,  if  we  abide  in  him,  we 
shall  know  for  ourselves,  and  shall  find  our  peace  in  the  gospel  truth. 
All  shall  be  clear,  he  tells  us,  if  we  put  the  matter  to  the  test  by  doing 
the  will  of  the  Father.  And  that  we  may  do  so  is  my  prayer  in  behal  f 
of  one  and  all. 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  The  thought  has  occurred  to  me  that 
I  am  standing  about  where  President  Jedediah  M.  Grant  stood  seventy 
years  ago  speaking  at  the  April  Conference.  I  am  not  telling  of  some- 
thing that  I  know  for  myself,  because  I  was  not  bom  then;  but,  as 
an  historian,  I  suppose  it  is  right  to  remember  some  things  that  are 
written.  Upon  the  site  of  this  building  there  then  stood  the  old  adobe 
tabernacle.  It  was  placed  lengthwise,  north  and  south,  about  130  feet 
and  was  65  feet 'wide.  On  the  western  side  there  was  a  vestry,  which 
had  an  entrance  through  the  west  wall  of  the  temple  block.  The 
Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  Twelve  would  come  in  and  meet 
first  in  that  vestry.  Rising  from  it  there  was  the  stand,  facing  the 
congregation,  which  was  seated  facing  west;  the  two  broad  entrance 
doors  were  on  the  east  side  of  the  building.  It  was  soon  found  that, 
on  account  of  the  length  being  the  other  way,  the  people  seated 
north  and  south  of  the  stand  could  not  hear,  consequently  the  arrange- 
ment was  changed  and  the  stand  was  placed  in  the  north  end  of  the 
building.  The  choir  was  in  the  south  end.  The  o'id  organ,  ten  or 
twelve  feet  square,  I  remember  very  well.  Charley  More  used  to  blow 
the  bellows  and  we  boys  would  get  up  there  and  help  him  blow. 

Upon  the  occasion  that  I  am  referring  to,  seventy  years  ago, 
President  Jedediah  M.  Grant  discoursed  upon  the  fulfilment  of  proph- 
ecy, and  especially  with  respect  to  the  wars  that  were  at  that  time 
afflicting  the  world.    The  Crimean  War  was  then  on.    lie  said: 

"Can  the  wise  men  of  Europe  tell  the  result  of  the  present  war  be- 
tween Russia  and  Turkey  and  the  allied  powers?  No.  they  cannot.  If  the 
present  war  should  he  suspended  for  a  time,  can  they  tell  when  the  next 
war  will  break  out  and  what  will  be  the  result  of  it?  No,  they  cannot. 
But  if  you  will  listen  to  the  revelations  of  God  through  the  spirit  of 
prophecy,  and  to  the  servants  of  God,  you  may  learn  it  all  with  certainty." 

It  was  then,  as  it  has  been  since  the  Great  World  War,  quite  the 
fashion  to  proclaim  peace  just  as  war  between  striving  nations  was 
about  to  break  out  and,  again,  as  it  would  approach  its  close,  to  sav 
there  never  could  be  another.  Great  philosophers,  great  men  of 
thought,  and  statesmen  at  that  time  were  proclaiming  peace,  and 
since  then. — Why,  do  you  know,  some  of  our  most  eminent  Americans, 
within  a  year  of  the  outbreak  of  the  Great  World  War,  having 
traversed  Europe  from  one  end  to  another,  proclaimed  from  public 
stands  and  issued  written  nroclamations  of  the  impossibility  of  an- 
other war.! — Jedediah  M.  Grant  did  not  take  that  view  with  respect 
to  war  in  his  day  nor  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world.  He  made 
this  remark:  The  God  of  heaven,  or  as  he  expressed  it,  "The  Gods 
in  yonder  heavens  have  something  to  do  with  the^e  mighty  revo- 
lutions and  warlike  convulsions,  which  shake  creation  almost  to  its 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


113 


center."  And  in  effect  he  added;  This  world  is  destined  to  be 
drenched  in  war,  and  these  nations  that  are  proud  are  destined  to 
be  brought  down  to  destruction  and  obliteration  through  war : 

"Though  the  fulfilment  of  the  words  of  the  prophets  is  clear  and 
visible  to  us  as  the  noonday  sun  in  its  splendor,  yet  the  people  of  the 
world  are  blinded  thereto;  they  do  not  comprehend  nor  discern  the  hand 
of  the  Lord  *  *  *  W.e  see  it  in  the  revolutions  of  our  own  continent: 
we  see  it  in  the  scattering  of  the  house  of  Israel;  in  the  fading  away  of 
nations  (Indian)  on  the  right  and  on  the  left;  in  the  present  commotion 
in  our  own  nation;  in  the  broils  and  contentions  between  the  South  and 
the  North;  in  short,  we  see  it  in  all  the  events  connected  with  our  own 
and  other  nations  living  on  the  continent  of  North  and  South  America. 
And  when  the  mind's  eye  stretches  abroad,  across  the  mighty  deep,  through- 
out Europe  we  see  the  hand  of  the  Lord  visible  at  work  there;  not  only 
in  the  spread  of  the  Gospel,  in  the  prosperity  of  the  people  of  God,  and 
in  the  proclamation  of  the  eternal  principles  of  truth,  through  the  agency 
of  the  elders  of  Israel,  but  in  the  war-clouds  gathering  black  around, 
dyeing  the  ocean  with  human  gore  and  drenching  the  solid  earth  with 
blood." 

Remember  this  was  spoken  in  the  year  1854.  Well,  just  to  recall 
a  few  wars  that  have  transpired  since  President  Jedediah  M.  Grant 
spoke  upon  that  theme.  Following  the  Crimean  War  (1854-1856) 
there  came  the  Great  American  Civil  War  (1861-1865).  President 
Grant  alluded  to  that  and  the  evidence  of  such  a  strife  already  before 
the  people.  He  supported  the  prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet 
(December  25.  1832  and  April  1843)  in  which  he  said: 

"Three  days  before  the  prophet  Joseph  started  to  Carthage  I  well 
remember  his  telling  us  we  should  see  the  fulfilment  of  the  words  of 
Jesus  upon  the  earth,  where  he  says  the  father  should  be  against  the  son, 
and  the  son  against  the  father,  the  mother  against  the  daughter,  etc. 
The  Prophet  stood  in  his  own  home  when  he  told  several  of  us  of  the 
night  the  visions  of  heaven  were  opened  to  him,  in  which  he  saw  the 
American  continent  drenched  in  blood;  and  he  saw  nation  rising  up  against 
nation;  for  he  saw  that  the  spirit  of  God  should  he  withdrawn  from  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  in  consequence  of  which,  there  should  be  blood 
upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth,  except  among  the  people  of  the  Most 
High.  The  prophet  gazed  upon  the  scene  his  vision  presented  until  his 
heart  sickened,  and  he  besought  the  Lord  to  close  it  up  again." 

After  the  Civil  War  there  was  the  great  Franco-German  War 
of  1870-1871  ;  a  war  which  left  the  burning  feelings  of  war,  with  the 
determination  that  there  should  be  another  war.  It  has  had  its  ex- 
pression in  this  great  World  War  of  the  present  time.  "Revenge!" 
the  French  cried,  having  been  defeated  by  the  Germans  at  that  time. 
Now,  they  have  had  their  revenge. 

Then  there  was  the  great  Turco-Russian  War,  (1876-1877)  fought 
with  the  utmost  bitterness  and  the  destruction  of  many  thousands. 
And  then  there  was  the  Spanish-American  War  (1898),  in  which  we 
had  a  conflict  with  Spain  and  obtained  the  Philippines ;  released 
Cuba  from  Spanish  control  and  drove  out  from  this  continent  of 
America,  from  this  land  of  Zion,  the  last  kingly  authority — "The 
destruction  of  Kingdoms!" 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Then  there  was  the  British-Boer  War  in  South  Africa  (1900- 
1901),  most  destructive;  then  the  Russian- Japanese  War  (1904-1905) 
in  which  other  tens  of  thousands  were  brought  down.  Then  at  length 
there  came  the  Great  World  War,  (1914-1918). 

The  spirit  of  war  is  still  in  the  world,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
It  is  not  finished.  Many  predictions  of  the  prophets  have  yet  to  be 
fulfilled.  The  world  that  has  forgotten  God ;  the  nations  that  do  not 
know  him  ;  the  churches  that  use  his  name  in  vain,  not  having  authority  ; 
nor  the  inspiration  of  his  spirit,  nor  the  knowledge  and  testimony 
of  his  design  and  purpose,  may  proclaim  peace  and  talk  peace  and 
form  peace  congresses,  but  in  vain ;  enduring  peace  is  far  from  this 
world  of  contention  and  strife,  As  a  result  of  the  Great  World 
War,  what  do  we  witness?  Is  there  greater  unity?  Is  there  greater 
love?  Is  there  a  greater  confidence?  Is  there  greater  trust?  The 
world  has  never  seen  a  time  when  there  is  so  much  distrust  among 
the  people ;  when  there  is  such  utter  lack  of  confidence  in  leaders — 
every  nation  seeking,  for  the  men,  or  feeling  the  need  of  men,  that 
are  fit  to  lead,  who  can  speak  with  authority  and  command  the  con- 
fidence and  the  love  and  the  trust  of  their  fellowmen.  But  it  is  hard 
to  find  them.  Where  are  the  great  mighty  kingdoms  and  empires 
that  were  thought  to  be  indestructible  only  ten  years  ago ;  the  great 
German  empire,  the  great  Austro-Hungarian  empire,  the  great  Russian 
empire,  the  great  Turkish  empire?  -Gone!  And  it  is  the  destiny  of 
mankind  to  see  further  destruction,  because  the  spirit  of  peace,  the 
spirit  of  unity,  the  spirit  of  God,  which  alone  can  bring  the  people 
to  peace,  is  not  found  in  the  world.  They  have  rejected  the  prophets. 
Most  of  the  nations  have  had  the  opportunity  to  receive,  in  this 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  the  testimony  of  the  servants  of 
God.  They  have  turned  their  backs  upon  that  testimony  and  despised 
it,  and  God  will  hold  them  responsible  for  it.  This  testimony  has 
not  only  been  carried  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  calling  upon  the 
poor  and  the  humble  to  receive  the  truth,  and  to  which  many  of 
the  blood  of  Israel  have  responded ;  it  has  been  published  in  almost 
every  land,  and  the  opportunity  to  receive  the  truth  has  been  pre- 
sented generally  to  mankind.  A  few  have  accepted  it,  and  rejoice 
in  it.  The  testimony  has  not  only  been  to  believers,  but  the  testi- 
mony that  binds  the  judgment  of  God,  and  looses  the  power  of 
destruction  upon  them  righteously,  has  also  been  borne  to  unbelievers 
with  the  same  fidelity;  so  that  God's  justice,  respecting  the  nations, 
may  not  be  doubted  even  in  the  wars,  the  calamities,  the  pestilences, 
the  famines,  the  widespread  destruction  that  we  are  bound  to  witness 
and  that  we  are  witnessing,  in  this  world  of  conflicting,  unbelieving 
mankind,  at  the  present  day. 

I  did  not  think  I  was  going  to  speak  upon  this  subject,  for 
there  was  something  else  that  I  thought  to  speak  upon  which  is  far 
pleasanter  from  one  point  of  view.  Nevertheless,  I  am  not  one  of  the 
pacifists,  who  believe  that  this  world  is  ready  for  peace.    I  see  peace 


ELDER  -JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


115 


only  through  the  fulfilment  of  the  judgments  of  God,  which  are 
decreed  upon  the  world  in  which  we  live,  because  of  the  unbelief  of 
the  world.  All  the  children  of  men  are  called  upon  to  believe  in  God 
the  Father  and  in  Jesus  Christ  his  Son ;  in  the  authority  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood,  in  the  manifestation  and  power  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  They 
are  called  upon  to  recognize  the  fact  that  God  himself  has  appeared 
and  spoken  to  his  children  and  is  in  the  world,  though  the  world 
knows  it  not.  We  are  called  to  maintain  the  truth  that  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum  were  martyrs  to  the  truth, 
whose  blood  has  been  spilled  unrighteously,  to  .seal  the  testimony  of 
God  upon  the  world  that  is  responsible  for  it.  We  have  no  other 
business,  we  Latter-day  Saints,  than  to  proclaim  these  truths,  with 
all  the  power,  means  and  influence  the  Lord  gives  us;  to  declare  to 
mankind  that  the  judgment  day  is  at  hand  and  is  now  upon  the 
world.  John  the  Revelator  foresaw  the  time  in  which  we  live — 
foresaw  the  time  when  the  angels  of  heaven,  flying  in  the  midst  of 
heaven,  should  bring  the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them  that 
dwell  upon  the  earth,  crying  with  a  loud  voice,  "Fear  God  and  give 
glory  to  him,  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven  and  earth  and  the  sea  and  fountains  of  waters." 
Do  we  Latter-day  Saints  know  that  the  revelation  given  John  upon  the 
Isle  of  Patmos  is  fulfilled,  or  is  being  fulfilled?  We  most  assuredly 
do.  And  we  declare  to  our  fellowmen  that  this  gospel  which  has 
been  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  a  gospel  of 
revelation ;  is  a  gospel  of  the  ministering  of  angels ;  is  a  gospel  of 
the  demonstration  and  exercise  of  the  power  of  God  in  the  hands 
of  his  Priesthood,  and  that  it  must  be  recognized ;  that  it  must  be 
accepted.  It  is  bound  to  make  its  way,  until  the  honest  in  heart,  the 
humble,  the  pure,  the  true,  out  of  all  nations,  who  are  of  the  house 
of  Israel,  shall  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  and  to  rejoice 
in  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  our  fathers,  the  associates  of  Joseph 
Smith,  became  converted  through  this  kind  of  preaching.  The  elders 
that  were  called  upon  in  the  beginning,  and  Joseph  himself,  had  that 
duty — undesirable  in  a  way — to  perform,  that  unthankful  task  to 
perform.  The  very  first  message  Joseph  had  to  deliver  was  to  the 
leaders  of  religion,  telling  them  that  they  were  all  wrong ;  that  they 
were  corrupt;  that  they  had  a  form  of  godliness  but  denied  the  power 
thereof ;  that  they  had  not  the  right  and  authority  to  teach  the  people. 
He  maintained  that  a  vision  of  heavenly  quality,  even  the  appear- 
ance of -the  Father  and  the  Son,  had  raised  him  up  and  caused  him 
to  deliver  that  message.  He  knew  he  had  seen  the  vision;  he  knew 
that  he  had  heard  the  voice  of  God ;  he  could  not  deny  it.  He 
wondered  that  the  leaders  of  religion  should  not  have  taken  him, 
a  mere  boy,  a  youth,  and  tried  to  persuade  him  that  he  was  in  error, 
if  he  were.  Instead  of  that,  they  arose  in  opposition;  they  called 
him  an  imposter,  and  began  to  persecute  him ;  hounding  him  through- 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


out  his  life  and  ultimately  to  a  martyr's  death.  That  was  the  only 
argument  they  brought  against  him — persecution. 

Wicked  warfare  has  been  made  against  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  the  testimony  which  they  have  borne  to  the  world ;  not  arguments, 
nor  .sound  reasoning,  not  offering  something  that  was  better  than  that 
which  the  Saints  have  freely  given  to  mankind;  but  abuse  and  per- 
secution. They  have  nothing  else  to  offer.  They  have  not  that  which 
is  better,  I  wish  to  say  this  to  the  young  people,  descendants  of  parents 
who  received  the  gospel  in  the  early  days.  And  how  did  they  receive 
it  ?  They  received  it  as  a  voice  from  heaven.  Talk  about  argument, 
reasoning,  discussion,  investigation,  and  experiment !  Why,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  tens  of  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  received  the  testi- 
mony of  Joseph  Smith,  as  the  revelation  of  God  to  them,  and 
the  testimonies  of  the  apostles  and  elders  that  were  raised  up  by 
him,  who  went  as  early  as  1837,  to  Europe,  and  were  sent  all  over 
the  world  between  that  time  and  1860.  They  received  the  testimony 
of  these  servants  of  God,  who  called  upon  them  and  all  men  to  repent 
of  their  sins ;  to  believe  that  God  lives  and  has  spoken  from  the  heavens, 
and  that  Jesus  Christ  lives ;  that  he  has  organized  his  Church  upon 
the  earth  and  established  his  kingdom  among  men;  that  he  calls 
upon  mankind  to  repent,  offering  them  remission  of  their  sins  and 
that  they  should  be  forgiven ;  that  they  should  receive  the  gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  which  should  bear  witness  that  they  were  in  accord 
with  God  and  were  in  possession  of  the  truth,  and  in  fellowship 
with  him  and  with  one  another,  in  bonds  of  eternal  righteousness. 
That  was  the  burden  of  their  testimony.  That  is  what  the  converts 
received  through  their  ministry. 

How  long  did  it  take  to  convert  them?  Heber  C.  Kimball  went 
into  Chatburn,  Lancashire,  where  they  said  he  would  be  mobbed  and 
not  permitted  to  speak.  He  stood  in  the  market  place  one  evening 
at  six  o'clock,  and  began  to  speak  to  the  people  in  this  manner,  pro- 
claiming the  fact  that  he  was  a  servant  of  God,  an  apostle  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  called  upon  the  people  to  repent  of  their 
sins,  and  he  melted  their  hearts ;  so  that,  with  tears  in  their  eyes  they 
came  up  to  him  at  that  meeting,  the  first  they  had  ever  seen  of  him,  and 
one  said,  "Will  you  please  baptize  me?"  "And  me?"  "And  me?"  "And 
me?"  Twenty-five  that  night  before  midnight  he  baptized,  and  in  the 
morning  twenty-six  more.  No  more  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  ever 
lived  than  those  who  responded  to  that  kind  of  testimony.  He  and 
others  bore  witness  to  them  by  the  Spirit  and  power  of  God,  exercising 
and  manifesting  the  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  as  apostles  of 
Jesus  Christ,  who  spoke  as  men  having  authority,  because  they  pos- 
sessed it. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  .sisters,  that  authority  was  restored  through 
the  ministering  of  angels.  Through  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  this 
Church  has  been  established  with  its  organizations  and  ordinances. 
This  testimony  is  before  the  world.    They  cannot  escape  it,  and  it 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


117 


will  bind  them  and  be  sealed  upon  them  ;  to  the  salvation  of  all  who 
believe  and  will  accept  it;  and,  as  inevitably,  to  the  destruction, 
righteously,  of  those  who  reject  it.  President  Jedediah  M.  Grant 
spoke  of  the  wonderful  progress  that  had  been  made  in  tho.se  seven 
years,  from  the  time  of  the  arrival  of  the  Pioneers,  when  he  led  the 
third  company  of  Saints  across  the  plains  in  1847.  The  progress 
that  had  teen  made  in  seven  years  was  simply  astonishing.  The 
old  tabernacle,  then  new,  which  they  met  in,  would  hold  as  many  as 
this  Assembly  Hall  does.  It  was  so  crowded,  at  the  following  con- 
ference in  the  spring,  they  decided  to  build  a  bowery,  which  would 
seat  seven  thousand.  It  was  located  at  the  north  end  of  the  tabernacle. 
I  remember  the  old  bowery  very  well.  I  remember  the  old  tabernacle 
and  attending  meetings  there  with  my  mother.  President  Grant  not 
only  referred  to  the  material  progress  which  had  been  made,  and  to 
the  wonderful  advancement  beginning  already  to  triumph  over  the 
sterility  of  these  arid  valleys ;  but  to  the  gathering  of  the  people  by 
tens  of  thousands;  for  they  were  coming,  in  thousands  then.  Do  you 
know  that,  two  years  before  the  date  of  this  discourse,  in  1852,  there 
were  more  Latter-day  Saints  in  Great  Britain  than  in  Utah  ?  The 
largest  number  of  our  converts  at  one  time  were  members  of  the 
Church  in  Great  Britain — as  I  recall  it,  thirty-three  thousand.  As 
many  as  four  or  five  or  even  six  thousand  emigrated  in  one  season; 
they  tried  to  bring,  and  I  think  they  nearly  accomplished  it — one 
year,  between  1853  and  1860,  ten  thousand  souls  across  the  plains, 
mostly  from  Europe. 

President  Grant  proclaimed  with  power  that  there  was  nothing 
that  could  hinder  the  progress  of  this  work,  or  that  could  stay  tht 
hand  of  the  Almighty;  that  God  was  in  the  wars  of  the  world,  and  that 
God  was  in  the  prosperity  of  his  people ;  that  it  was  his  work,  and  that 
we  are  his  servants  and  that  there  was  no  power  that  could  prevent 
the  onward  progress  of  this  Church.  I  wonder  how  Jedediah  M. 
Grant  would  now  feel  and  how  he  would  view  the  situation  today ! 
His  youngest  son  here  in  the  Great  Tabernacle,  presiding  over  this 
great  conference  and  Church,  over  these  tens  of  thousands,  aye,  hun- 
dreds of  thousands  of  faithful  Saints ;  all  bearing  witness  to  the  ful- 
filment of  his  father's  prophecy,  delivered,  within  thirty  feet  of 
where  I  am  standing,  seventy  years  ago ! 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Let  us  realize  and  ap- 
preciate the  inheritance  from  our  forbears.  No  more  faithful  men,  no 
truer  men  and  women  ever  lived ;  none  who  lived  nearer  to  God,  who 
understood  the  whisperings  of  his  Spirit  and  were  willing  to  give  their 
lives  and  all  things  they  possessed  for  the  establishment  of  this  work, 
which  we  now  are  upholding.  We  have  only  still  to  bear  their  testi- 
mony ;  to  proclaim  the  truth  which  they  proclaimed ;  to  stand  for  it ; 
and  to  ,see  that  it  is  carried  to  the  ends  of  the  earth ;  to  the  conversion 
of  the  honest  in  heart  and  to  the  conviction  of  those  that  still  rebel 
and  will  not  receive  the  word  of  God.    There  are  many  in  the  world 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


who  will  not  believe  that  God  is,  although  he  has  appeared  and  spoken ; 
who  will  not  receive  his  word  and  acknowledge  the  ministry  of  his 
Priesthood.  What  can  be  their  excuse?  Where  is  their  refuge?  The 
condemnation  of  the  world  is  unbelief.  How  can  there  be  permanent 
peace  between  the  nations  or  among  the  people  in  unbelief?  It  is  not 
possible.  Such  peace  can  come  to  mankind  only  in  a  unity  of  belief, 
in  one  God,  in  one  faith  and  in  one  baptism.  There  is  only  safety 
in  accepting  the  truth.  The  truth  is  that  God  our  Creator,  the  Father 
of  us  all  is  in  the  world.  His  children  do  not  know  it.  It  is  your 
business,  Latter-day  Saints  to  proclaim  it;  it  is  my  business  to  pro- 
claim it,  and  to  manifest  it  in  our  lives,  in  such  a  way  that  our  fellow 
creatures  will  take  heed  and  notice  and  try  to  get  in  accord  with 
the  design  and  purpose  of  the  Almighty ;  instead  of  trying  to  find 
some  other  way,  in  opposition  to  it. 

May  God  help  us  to  do  this,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Forever  worthy." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  D.  R.  Lyon,  Bishop  of 
Ensign  ward. 

SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  at  2 
o'clock,  April  6,  1924.  Elder  Edward  H.  Snow,  president  of  the  St. 
George  stake  of  Zion,  presided.  As  in  the  morning  session,  the  Twenty- 
first  ward  choir,  Walter  A.  Wallace,  conductor,  furnished  the  music ; 
with  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  organist. 

The  choir  sang,  "Come  let  us  anew,  our  journey  pursue." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  B.  Smith  of 
the  High  Council  of  Ensign  stake. 

The  choir,  accompanied  by  an  orchestra,  sang  the  cantata, 
"The  Landing  of  the  Pilgrims,"  with  Elder  William  F.  Bennett  sing- 
ing the  bass  solo. 

ELDER  EDWARD  H.  SNOW 

(President  of  St.  George  Stake  of  Zion) 

As  it  will  be  appropriate  for  me  to  announce  the  .speakers  to 
you  this  afternoon,  perhaps  I  would  do  well  to  begin  with  myself, 
by  announcing  to  you  that  I  am  Edward  H.  Snow,  President  of  the 
St  George  Stake  of  Zion. 

The  announcement  of  that  to  you  has  a  tendency  to  fasten  upon 
my  mind  the  sense  of  my  responsibility.  It  is  said  that  every  bird 
sings  sweetest  in  its  native  forest,  and  I  am  quite  sure  that  I  am  much 
more  at  home  among  my  own  people,  where  I  am  known,  than  I  am 
standing  here  today.    Yet  I  do  not  have  in  my  heart  any  fear  for  you 


ELDER  EDWARD  H.  SNOW  119 


or  of  you,  but  only  the  fear  of  God,  which  I  have  always  remembered, 
that  I  may  not  be  ab!e  to  do  full  justice  to  the  great  cause  which  he  has 
established  on  the  earth  and  in  which  1  am  called  upon,  in  a  measure, 
to  form  a  part.  I  am  always  inspired  in  my  attendance  upon  these 
conferences,  and  I  never  stand  up  with  the  brethren  in  the  opening 
hymn  of  our  conferences,  when  I  look  around  and  see  the  immense 
congregation  joining  in  the  hymn,  but  I  feel  a  sense  of  comradship, 
of  common  cause,  of  inspiration,  and  of  loyalty  to  the  great  work  of 
the  Lord.  I  am  always  thankful  too  that  I  was  born  and  reared  in 
the  Church,  thankful  for  its  environment,  for  the  influence  which  the 
gospel  has  had  upon  my  life,  for  the  high  ideals  that  have  ever  been 
expounded  by  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  for  the  safeguards  which  they 
have  thrown  around  us.  While  giving  us  full  free  agency,  they  have 
magnified  the  good,  the  noble,  the  pure,  and  the  true,  and  they  have 
not  left  us  in  doubt  as  to  the  course  that  we  ought  to  pursue,  if  we 
jdesire  happiness  here  on  the  earth. 

Happiness  does  not  come  to  us  as  a  result  of  prosperity  or  of  riches, 
but  from  the  consciousness  of  our  doing  the  duty  that  lies  nearest  to 
us,  well  and  faithfully,  which  means,  substantially,  following  the  work, 
life,  and  examples  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  in  spending  our 
time,  talents  and  efforts  for  the  good  of  his  children.  Thereby  do  ye 
manifest  our  love  for  God,  our  faith  in  him  and  in  the  ultimate  triumph 
of  his  cause  here  on  earth.  The  other  morning,  when  we  stood  up  to 
sing,  I  thought  of  the  remark  of  Patrick  Henry  in  the  House  of  Bur- 
gesses, when  the  great  cause  of  human  freedom  was  hanging  in  the 
balance  and  when  the  foremost  thought  among  the  colonists  was  declara- 
tion of  independence  from  Great  Britian.  He  made,  as  you  know,  this 
memorable  declaration,  that  three  million  people,  armed  in  the  holy 
cause  of  freedom,  were  invincible.  Well,  we  do  not  reach  that  number, 
yet  the  cause  that  we  represent  in  the  earth,  and  which  we  have  taken 
upon  our  shoulders  to  forward  in  the  earth,  is  just  as  great,  or  perhaps 
greater  than  that  which  the  colonists  espoused ;  and,  though  we  be  few 
in  number,  yet  it  is  my  sublime  faith  that  united  and  harmonious  as 
we  are  today  and  have  ever  been,  we  will  be  invincible  in  the  earth, 
and  that  this  work  will  continue  to  grow  and  increase  in  power  and  in 
influence  and  prestige  among  the  people  of  the  earth,  and  the  virtue 
which  the  gospel  inculcates,  and  which  we  exemplify  in  our  lives,  will 
be  the  saving  grace  of  nations  and  kingdoms  and  thrones,  and  we  will 
be  a  power  in  the  land.  Those  who  stand  for  truth  and  righteousness 
will  look  to  us  as  an  ally  in  the  great  cause  of  human  redemption,  and 
the  holding  together  of  our  inheritance  and  our  civilization. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  strength  which  we  feel  in  being  clean.  I 
am  thankful  for  the  personal  cleanliness  that  exists  in  the  Church,  and 
the  high  ideals  that  we  have  of  it,  and  that  there  is  such  a  vast 
majority  of  the  people  who  form  the  membership  of  this  Church  whose 
skirts  are  free  from  contamination  with  the  sins  of  the  world.  Thereby 
will  we  have  our  strength.    Thereby  will  we  keep  our  faith,  inspiration, 


Aaq;  'uopBzqjAp  o;  paqAui  ;ou  3jsav  A"aqx  •Jjeads  o;  os  'ssamapjiAV 
E  o;  SuioS  aj3A\  A~3q;  ssnEaaq  'uiiq  q;iAv  pa;BposSB  ja;B[  ajaM  oqM 
asoq;  puB  'Ajilubj  siq  puB  iqaq  joj  >jse;  abbs  ou  sbav  A;;uapp3  stqj^ 
•p3A"o.i;sap  aq  o;  SuioS  sbav  A%p  sq;  joj  'Luspsvusf  sae3[  o;  iiiBSjp  e  ui 
paiuEAv  sbav  aaq;Ej  sijj    -sdubibhi  ;xau  aqj  sb  iqda^;  aqB;  oa\  uaqx 

■;jB3q  Am  ssqano;  q  'q;noA  b  ;nq  uaqAV 
's;u3.iBd  siq  jo  puB  S-isupoaq  siq  jo  uopBpossB  sq;  iuojj  p3[pdxs  sbav 
'siuoq  siq  iuojj  u3Aup  sbav  qdssof  ;ELp  ;dbj  sq;  jo  quiq;  j  uaq^\  "aiui; 
;Bq;  ;b  spuBj  uavo  Jisq;  in  Suisibj  ;ou  aj3AV  A"sq;  ;Bq;  AjEssaaau  spooj 
jsq;o  puB  iusq;  joj  iuod  Suippo-id  Aq  uopoiujssp  uiojj  uiaq;  Suiabs 
ApBjoduia;  u;  p3;ii3iunj;sui  sbav  aq  puB  'uiiq  o;  3lubd  U3LpBj  siq  J3;b] 
puB  'saaqiojq  siq  ;BLp  'a".io;s  aip  papuiuiaj  sje  noy  -sun;  jo  Lp.Suaj 
sluos  oujij)  fmipiqv  Mfjv  pauuojjod  aq  uoissiiu  aqj  ;nq  'aaaip  us>p;  sbav 
aq  'A[jB|nai;jBd  'Avoq  uodn  qsAvp  o;  ssodand  a"ui  ;ou  si  ;i  puB  '^dASg 
o;ui  us>|b;  sbav  qdasof  Avoq  jo  X.io;s  iejujcIuos  aq;  pBDsi  jjiav  no^ 

•uuojjad  o;  uoissilu  b  aABq  11012 
jo  q;noX  aq;  ;Bq;  ;qSnoq;  aq;  aziSBqduia  o;  qsiAV  j  up.iaq  pire  '.  q;noA" 
jipq;  ui  pajpa  a.i3A\  Asq;  aauB;sut  ipE3  ui  ;aA  'ypoAv  jnjxspuoAv  ;soui  b 
pauuojjad  aABq  Asq;  'puiui  Am  o;  ';Bq;  suapBJBqa  asaq;  Suuaptsuoa 
111  a;ou  j  puB  ';aqdojj  aq;  qqiug  qdasof  jo  uoissilu  aq;  q;u\  'paauoj 
-jad  tqda^  ;Bq;  jjjoav  ;b3jS  aq;  q;iAV  ';dA.§T[  oiui  pfos  sbav  oqAV  qdasof 
jo  uoissiiu  sq;  q;;A\  pssssjduii  usaq  aABq  j  aun;3jq  Am  Suuiiq 
•iqSnoq;  jo  3ui[  siq;  Suoje  s;u3iuoui  avsj  b  joj  qsAvp  o;  a>]i[  p[uoqs  j 
'pjoq  aq;  jo  jhav  aq;  aq  abui  ;i  ji  puB  qnos  Am  paquq;  '-a;a  (l'jsas  puB 
pudoaj  ;sq;  pa;uiouuB  snsaf  'qBAoqaf  q;;Av  pauntuuioa  oijav  ublu  aq; 
o;  asreaj,,  uuiXq  Suiuado  juq  ';aqdoJj  aq;  qdasof  jo  uoissilu  aq;  jo 
ai.ii!  aq;  Suope  sbav  p3;saS8ns  aiuaq;  3Lp  ;Bip  puij  o;  'spBLnsqBjL  sip 
111  sSuos  Suurado  3Lp  o;  .o'uiua;sq  Suuuoiu  siq;  p3;q§qap"sBA\  j 

(U0YZ  1°  32lDlS  ^iit^j  tfv^  jo  fitapis-Mj) 

Nosna  v  NHOf  Haa^a 


•uaLuy  ';si.iq3  sns-'f  jo 
3LUBU  sq;  ui  'ABJd  j  pua  siq;  o;  pLiB  'ssauiddBq  3iu;  \{e  jo  saaanos 
aq;  ajB  LpiqAV  'pog  jo  joabj  aq;  puB  aAOj  aq;  3;Bpmi3  Ablli  sav  ;Bq; 

's;U3llipUBLULU03  Siq  da3>]  pUB  pOQ  JB3J  O;  'pSlUSOUOS  a.IB  3AV  SB  JBJ 
OS    '.Slli;33lLI   Siq;    LUO.IJ    ;JBd3p   |[BL[S   3AV   ;BLp  pilB   'p3SB3J3UI   ILIIIJ  3AJ3S 

0;  S3.us3p  ano  puB  'pssBaa.iui  Lpn:j  .mo  'SupaaLu  siq;  jo  qnss.i  b  sb 
'aABq  qBqs  3av  ;Bq;  puB  ';soqg  i[opj  aq;  jo  uo;;BJidsui  3Lp  u;iav  psqij 
3({  ablu  sn  0;  qBads1  [jBqs  oqAV  asoq;  ;Bip  'uoolu3;jb  siq;  3jol[  sn  ss3jq 
I|ja\  aq  ;Bq;  'ajdosd  b  sb  sn  ssajq  jjiav  pog  ;Bq;  Avid  A(jJ3Diiis  j 

•punoj  aq  nBlIs  II  J3Aa.iaipvv  'ssausnoa;q3uun  puB  uis  }i\Sij  o;  puB 
qjO0  jo  LuopSup^  aq;  ui  'aSjBqa  o;  qxiEAuoj  oS  o;  si  avoldj  3av  ;bl;;  qy 
•;B3j;3j  b  A\ouq  ;ou  op  sa\  !  uoapdB^  jo  Xoq  jaiuiunap  pp  aip  a>ji[  ajB 
3VY\  -uoaiqiiy  sip  passEd  sablj  aAv  3[dcsd  b  sy  -paoq  aq;  jo  sureu  aip 
Ajuop3  puB  AjiliSblu  o;  'pooS  op  o;  q;jB3  3Lp  ui  aaAvod  jno  pr.B  'aqsap 


3JNHX3JN0D  7VX3N3D 


OZl 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  ELI  SON 


121 


were  not  asked  to  remain  among  friends  and  loved  ones,  but  the  Lord 
said  to  this  man,  "Go  out  into  the  wilderness  and  I  will  lead  you  whither 
ye  shall  go."  As  I  recall  some  of  the  incidents  connected  with  this 
most  wonderful  trip :  after  a  few  years  travel  and  experience,  Nephi, 
the  son  of  Lehi,  and  the  younger  son  at  the  time,  assumed  the  reins 
of  government  among  his  people  and,  in  fact,  did  so  legitimately;  yet 
in  the  eyes  of  his  older  brethren  he  assumed  this  position  much  to  their 
dissatisfaction.  They  complained  of  him,  but  nevertheless  he  performed 
his  part.  On  one  occasion  only,  I  believe,  was  this  young  man  ever 
deprived  of  at  least  a  few  friends  to  console,  encourage,  and  help  him, 
during  his  administration  among  the  people.  On  one  occasion  not 
only  did  Laman  and  Lemuel  complain,  not  only  his  mother,  but  even 
his  father  complained,  when  Nephi  was  unable,  because  of  the  breaking 
of  his  bow,  to  provide  food  for  them.  He  was  bound  upon  the  ship ; 
he  was  persecuted  by  his  own  loved  ones,  yet  he  never  faltered.  And 
I  believe  that  one  of  the  chief  reasons  for  it  was  that  early  in  life  he 
obtained  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

You  recall  that  when  he  returned  to  Jerusalem  to  obtain  the  plates 
his  brethren  severely  criticized  him  and  abused  him,  and  finally 
it  became  necessary  for  an  angel  of  the  Lord  to  appear  and  rebuke 
them  for  their  deeds.  Now,  this  was  a  difficult  experience,  it  is  true, 
but  at  the  same  time  Nephi  obtained  a  testimony  that  the  Lord  lives. 
He  learned  that  there  were  angels  in  heaven,  who  administered  to  mortal 
men  upon  the  earth.  And  he  was  enriching  his  life  with  a  testimony 
of  the  gospel,  although  he  was  undergoing  great  persecution.  By 
referring  back  you  will  see  that  this  was  also  true  to  Joseph  who  was 
sold  into  Egypt.  He  became  the  interpreter  of  dreams,  he  became  a 
mouthpiece  to  those  people  in  Egypt ;  yet  he  was  but  a  boy. 

In  this  dispensation  we  find  a  like  character,  to  my  mind,  starting 
out  to  find  the  truth.  He  read  the  scriptures  in  James,  that  if  any  of 
you  lack  wisdom  let  him  ask  of  God.  This  boy  put  it  to  the  test, 
a  thing,  by  the  way,  the  we  are  all  invited  to  do,  and  he  also  learned 
in  the  beginning  of  his  life's  mission  that  there  were  not  only  angels 
in  heaven,  but  that  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  the  Son,  whom  these 
very  scriptures  in  which  he  was  reading  testified  of,  exist.  By  a 
visible  view  of  them,  he  learned  that  they  lived.  And  early  in  his  life 
he  said  to  a  minister  of  religion,  so-called,  that  he  had  seen  the  Father. 
Then  to  his  own  friends,  and  particularly  to  himself,  he  said,  I  cannot 
deny  it ;  I  know  that  I  have  seen  God  and  his  Son,  and  the  Lord 
knows  that  I  know  it;  I  am  conscious  of  it. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  question  may  be  asked  by 
those  not  of  our  faith,  "What  has  this  to  do  with  this  great  latter-day 
work?  What  has  this  to  do  with  'Mormonism?'  And  whence  do  you 
derive  your  name?  My  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  see  it,  it  has  this 
much  to  do  with  it.  It  is  only  another  epoch  in  which  the  Lord  has 
made  himself  manifest  to  the  children  of  men.  He  did  it  to  these  other 
youths ;  he  assisted  them,  he  gave  them  strength  to  carry  on  their  work, 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  it  seems  to  me  it  is  a  source  of  great  encouragement  to  the 
youth  of  Zion  to  learn  as  much-  in  detail  as  possible  the  history  of 
these  three  young  men.  They  have  been  a  source  of  inspiration  to  me ; 
they  have  strengthened  me  in  time  of  trouble ;  they  have  been  a  means  of 
causing  me  to  investigate  the  truth  and  to  gain  hope  and  courage 
in  furthering  the  work  of  the  Lord.  And  .so,  when  I  hear  these  songs 
sung,  my  heart  rejoices  and  T  feel  to  praise  the  Lord  for  the  lives 
of  these  young  men: 

"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah! 
Jesus  annointed   'that  Prophet  and  Seer' — 
Messed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him,  and  nations  revere." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  ought  to  be  inspiring  to  us. 
We  have  sting  for  a  long  time  the  words  given  in  the  days  of 
the  Savior: 

"Far,  far  away,  on  Judea's  plains, 

Shepherds  of  old  heard  the  joyous  strains: 

Glory  to  God,  glory  to  God,  glory  to  God  in  the  highest." 

And  they,  too,  have  inspiration  in  them.  But  I  love  to  connect  up 
these  things,  bring  them  together  as  an  evidence  that  the  Lord  is  work- 
ing with  his  children  and  particularly  to  bring  it  to  bear  upon  our 
existence  and  work  at  the  present  time.  A  writer  of  our  day  has 
composed  a  song  in  which  he  vividly  portrays  a  condition  that  existed 
when  Joseph  went  out  to  pray.   He  describes  the  morning : 

"O  how  lovely  was  the  morning! 
Radiant  beamed  the  sun  above, 
Bees  were  humming,  sweet  birds  singing, 
Music  ringing  through  the  grove, 
When  within  the  shady  woodland, 
Joseph  sought  the  God  of  love." 

I  ask  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  read  that  song :  in  the 
closing  of  the  song,  instead  of  saying,  "Joseph  sought  the  God  of  love," 
he  said, 

"Joseph  saw  the  God  of  love." 

I  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  .sisters,  for  the  privilege  of 
living  in  this  dispensation.  I  am  grateful  for  the  lives  of  these 
men.  I  cannot  step  forth  on  these  grounds  in  front  of  those  pieces 
of  statuary  that  we  have  here  of  Joseph  and  Hyrum  without  feeling  that 
my  life  is  enriched  thereby ;  because  those  men,  those  boys,  as  they 
were,  did  for  humanity  and  particularly  for  all  those  who  accepted 
the  message  of  life  and  salvation,  that  which  is  beyond  price. 

I  recall  when  going  into  the  mission  field  a  few  years  ago  that 
it  had  been  customary,  apparently,  from  the  council  that  we  received 
from  our  mission  president,  for  a  good  many  elders  to  teach  only 
faith  in  God,  repentance,  and  baptism,  etc.,  and  that  the  bearing  wit- 
ness that  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  re-established,  that  an  angel  has 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  EL1S0N 


123 


come  to  earth,  seemingly  was  held  in  the  background;  and  I  recalled 
that  Brother  James  G.  Duffin,  who  was  our  president  at  that  time, 
said,  "Brethren,  I  want  you  to  go  out  an  testify  that  the  Lord  has 
sent  an  angel  to  earth,  that  he  sent  him  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet, 
and  that  message  we  are  now  bearing  to  the  children  of  men."  My  com- 
panion and  I  did  that.  We  went  form  city  to  city,  from  community  to  com- 
munity ;  we  held  cottage  meetings  on  every  hand,  and  in  every  instance 
we  found  that  by  bearing  testimony  to  the  fact  that  God  had  sent  an 
angel  to  earth  to  Joseph  the  Prophet,  we  obtained  and  secured  friends 
everywhere,  that  people  were  interested  in  our  message.  And  to  me 
the  greatest  satisfaction  came  in  the  fact  that  it  strengthened  and 
built  up  my  testimony.  And  I  bear  my  testimony  here, 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  effect  that,  while  I  claim  not  particular 
miraculous  manifestations,  little  by  little  faith  has  come  to  me  by 
doing  the  works,  and  I  can  truthfully  say  today  that  I  know  nothing 
else  of  this  work  but  truth.  I  cannot  conceive  of  its  being  anything  but 
truth.  I  have  not  in  me  any  conception  of  anything  else  that  I  desire 
in  preference  to  the  work  of  the  Lord  that  we  are  engaged  in  as  a 
people.  My  brethren  and-  sisters,  to  me  it  i.s  the  truth,  and  it  is  all 
the  truth,  and  it  is  the  means,  it  is  the  way,  by  which  the  children  of  men 
will  get  back  to  God,  and  in  no  other  way.  May  his  Spirit  be  with 
us.  May  it  be  carried  to  the  children  of  men  everywhere,  that  those 
who  know  us  not  and  know  not  the  truth  may  hear  and  accept  this 
glad  message  and  be  saved  and  celestialized  in  the  kingdom  of  God, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  BECKSTRAND 

(President  of  Millard  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters. — As  I  have  listened  to  the  remarks 
of  our  brethren  who  have  .spoken  to  us  during  the  sessions  of  this 
conference,  there  are  two  phases  of  this  great  work  that  I  have  been 
led  to  think  about ;  and  that  is,  the  gospel  as  it  is  preached  at  home 
in  the  homes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  abroad  in  the  mission  field 
by  our  elders  that  are  laboring  in  this  wonderful  cause,  and  in  con- 
nection with  this,  the  great  work  that  is  being  accomplished  in  the 
temples  of  the  Lord  for  the  dead. 

That  I  may  be  better  understood,  I  desire  to  refer  to  the  110th 
section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  a  most  wonderful  section, 
which  means  so  much  to  us  as  Latter-day  Saints.  There,  in  the 
presence  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  close  associate  Oliver 
Cowdery,  a  wonderful  message  came  to  them.  The  eyes  of  their  un- 
derstanding were  opened;  that  is,  their  spiritual  eyes  that  they  were 
blessed  with,  and  they  saw  the  Lord,  even  the  Savior,  Jesus  Christ, 
upon  the  breastwork  of  that  temple,  and  in  the  comforting  words 
that  he  spoke  to  them,  he  told  them  that  their  sins  were  forgiven, 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  they  were  pure  and  holy  before  the  Lord,  and  that  he  had  accepted 
the  great  work  that  they  had  accomplished  in  the  erection  of 
that  building,  and  that  he  was  satisfied  and  pleased  with  that  which 
had  been  done  and  accomplished  by  the  Latter-day  Saints — a  most 
wonderful  revelation.  And  I  am  sure  a  great  satisfaction  came  into 
the  hearts  of  those  two  brethren  as  they  stood  under  the  voice  of 
this  heavenly  messenger  and  heard  those  soothing  words. 

When  this  manifestation  cleared  away,  another  one  appeared 
unto  them.  The  Prophet  Moses  of  old,  who  held  the  keys  of  the  gather- 
ing of  Israel,  appeared  unto  them  and  conferred  this  authority  upon 
them,  that  they  might  have  that  privilege  or  that  power  in  this  dispen- 
sation of  the  gospel.  Up  to  this  time  the  gospel  had  only  been  preached 
in  a  few  of  the  eastern  states  and  in  parts  of  Canada,  but  within  a 
year  of  that  time,  missionaries  were  sent  out  in  the  various  states 
of  this  nation  and  across  the  water  into  Europe,  into  Great  Britain 
and  the  Scandinavian  countries,  and  a  most  wonderful  harvest  followed 
the  labors  of  those  men;  the  spirit  of  gathering  followed  conversion 
to  the  gospel.  Many  souls  were  made  members  of  the  Church 
through  the  testimonies  of  these  brethren  who  came  to  them ;  they 
accepted  the  gospel  and  the  spirit  of  gathering  followed  it.  Many 
souls  were  gathered  into  the  fold  of  Christ;  many  joined  hands  with 
the  Saints  in  this  part  of  the  land.  And  in  addition  to  this,  in  part- 
fulfilment  of  that  prophecy,  Orson  Hyde  and  John  E.  Page  were 
set  apart  for  a  mission  to  Palestine.  Their  mission  was  to  dedicate 
that  land  as  a  gathering  place  for  the  house  of  Israel.  We  are  told 
that  Mr.  Page  fell  by  the  wayside ;  Orson  Hyde  continued  that  wonder- 
ful journey  through  privations  and  hardships,  and  after  a  year  and 
a-half's  labor  and  work  and  worry,  reached  that  part  of  the  country, 
and  we  are  told  that  on  the  Mount  of  Olives,  with  his  face  turned 
toward  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  he  alone  offered  that  dedicatory  prayer 
that  he  was  sent  there  to  offer.  And  we,  of  course,  have  wondered 
and  have  looked  with  astonishment  as  to  how  that  condition  might 
come  about.  Rut  we  saw  in  the  great  World  War  a  condition  brought 
about  indicating  that  those  people  may  be  gathered  back  to  their  home 
country.    And  that  prophecy  will  be  fulfilled. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  no  question  in  my  mind  as  to 
the  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  as  to  the  great  work  that  is  in  store  for 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

And,  in  connection  with  this  mission  to  the  living  as  it  has  been 
preached  in  the  various  nations  of  the  earth,  we  have  the  vicarious 
work  that  is  being  accomplished  and  done  for  the  dead.  When  we  think 
of  the  eight  temples  finished  and  completed,  and  the  ninth  under 
erection,  of  the  vast  amount  of  work  that  is  being  accomplished  for  the 
dead,  and  the  desire  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  perform 
this  great  labor  and  mission,  what  a  blessing  it  is !  Many  souls  who 
have  gone  to  the  grave  without  a  knowledge  of  the  gospel  without 
the  privilege  of  receiving  or  hearing  it,  are  waiting  for  that  work  to 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  BECKSTRAND 


125 


be  accomplished  for  them,  that  they,  too,  may  join  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  the  great  blessings  of  the  gospel. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that 
this  is  the  plan  of  salvation.  Every  man,  woman,  and  child  who 
will  obey  and  live  it,  will  be  saved  in  the  presence  of  our  Father  in 
heaven.  And  may  we  be  faithful  in  the  performance  of  our  duties, 
day  by  day  as  Latter-day  Saints,  is  my  prayer.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  T.  HYDE 

(President  of  the  Portncuf  Stake  of  Zion) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  appreciate  the  honor  that  has  come  to 
me  in  being  invited  to  address  you  for  just  a  few  moments,  and 
I  sense  very  keenly  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  in  occupy- 
ing this  'most  important  position,  and  I  realize,  that  only  through 
the  inspiration  of  our  Father  in  heaven  will  I  be  able  to  say  any- 
thing that  will  tend  to  benefit,  comfort,  or  build  us  up  in  our  most 
holy  faith. 

I  bring  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  greetings  from  the 
Saints  who  dwell  in  Portneuf  stake,  who  live  over  the  border  line, 
that  invisible  line  which  marks  the  geographical  division  between  the 
State  of  Utah  and  Idaho.  Possibly  I  am  a  stranger  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  but  I  feel  that  we  are  all  brethren  and  sisters  in  the 
great  work  of  the  Lord,  all  children  of  that  great  Father  in  heaven, 
all  actuated  by  that  same  spirit,  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  have  been  coming  to  the  conferences  of  the  Church  for  many 
years,  but  never  has  the  greatness,  marvelousness,  and  the  wonders 
of  the  work  appealed  to  me  as  they  have  throughout  the  various 
sessions  of  this  wonderful  conference,  and  truly  I  realize  that  the 
Lord  indeed  is  doing  a  marvelous  and  a  wonderful  work.  I  feel 
that  the  work  of  the  Lord  has  made  wonderful  growth  and  progress 
since  its  organization,  since  those  early  days  which  our  brethren  have 
referred  to  here  so  beautifully  this  afternoon.  When  we  contemplate 
the  numbers  that  there  are  today  in  the  membership  of  the  Church, 
we  can  then  in  a  sense  realize  that  it  is  indeed  a  "marvelous  work 
and  a  wonder."  When  we  stop  to  contemplate  the  fact  that  there 
are  today,  as  President  Grant  announced  in  his  opening  address,  1,700 
or  m  re  of  the  young  men  and  women  of  this  Church  engaged  in 
missionary  labors  throughout  the  world,  bearing  the  message  of  life 
and  salvation  to  those  who  sit  in  darkness,  taking  to  them  the  glad 
tidings  that  God  has  again  made  known  his  mind  and  will  and 
restored  to  earth  the  authority  to  administer  in  the  ordinances  of 
his  gospel.  When  we  contemplate  these  things  we  can  realize  some- 
thing of  the  magnitude  of  the  work  that  has  already  been,  is  being, 
and  will  be,  accomplished,  and  I  feel  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  will 
make  still  more  rapid  strides,  if  we,  the  membership  of  the  Church 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


at  home,  truly  live  up  to  the  teachings  of  the  gospel,  if  we  ourselves 
observe  to  do  the  commandments  that  our  Father  has  given  to  us, 
if  we  magnify  the  duties  that  membership  in  the  Church  brings  to 
us.  I  believe  that  if  we  do  that,  as  our  young  men  and  young 
women  go  out  into  the  nations  of  the  earth  declaring  the  word,  they 
will  have  a  stronger,  a  greater  force  behind  them  in  the  lives  of 
their  parents  at  home,  in  the  power  of  the  example  that  we  are 
setting  here,  I  feel  that  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  to  live  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  indeed  a  great  and  a  marvelous  work, 
and  we  are  indeed  a  peculiar  people. 

Some  of  the  characteristics  of  the  Church,  we  may  say,  too,  are 
peculiar,  and  one  of  those  characteristics  that  appeals  to  me  and  that 
I  of  times  think  of,  is  that  it  means  on  our  part  continual  service, 
and  work.  There  is  no  place,  no  time,  in  our  lives  when  we  can 
sit  idly  by,  but  we  must  continue  faithfully  in  the  service  of  our 
Master  to  the  end,  if  we  would  reap  the  reward  of  our  faith,  and 
eternal  lives  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father. 

I  feel  that  throughout  the  sessions  of  this  great  conference 
we  have  had  some  of  the  most  wonderful,  inspirational  teachings, 
speaking  and  counsel,  that  have  ever  been  given  to  the  Church.  The 
opening  address  of  President  Grant,  enunciating  the  doctrine  that 
it  is  necessary  for  us  to  keep  the  commandments,  to  live  the  laws 
of  the  gospel,  to  be  faithful  continually,  brought  into  my  mind 
the  fact  that  if  we  would  reap  the  benefits  of  the  gospel,  we  must 
keep  the  commandments.  I  feel  that  while  we  are  gaining  numerically, 
making  wonderful  progress,  there  is  still  a  greater  work,  I  may  call 
it  an  invisible  work,  that  is  going  on  throughout  the  entire  world 
as  a  result  of  the  restoration  of  the  gospel.  I  recall  that  in  that 
opening  address  of  President  Grant,  he  referred  to  the  coming  of 
Elijah  and  the  fact  that  the  spirit  of  Elijah  has  been  poured  out 
upon  all  the  world.  Over  the  nations  of  the  world,  the  people  every- 
where, has  come  a  spirit  of  gathering  the  genealogies  of  their  fore- 
fathers. They  know  not  why,  he  said,  but  they  are  inspired  through 
the  coming  into  their  hearts  of  the  spirit  of  Elijah,  which  causes 
them  to  do  that  work.  I  feel,  too,  that  many  other  truths  of  the 
gospel  are  being  gradually  taken  up  by  various  religious  denomina- 
tions of  the  day;  the  leaven,  in  other  words,  is  gradually  working, 
leavening  the  lump.  Notwithstanding  our  attention  has  been  called 
to  the  fact  that  many  of  the  churches  are  preaching  and  advocating 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  not  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  the  Father,  we 
bear  testimony  that  he  is ;  for  that  truth  has  been  revealed  anew 
to  us — an  additional  evidence  has  been  brought  to  us,  that  he  is 
indeed  the  Son  of  God  in  the  flesh.  But  many  are  denying  that, 
and  it  seems  to  be  creeping  into  the  hearts  of  many,  yet  there  are 
thousands,  yea  hundreds  of  thousands  who  do  believe  that  he  is 
indeed  the  Son  of  God  and  the  Savior  of  the  world,  and  many  of  them 
■are  gradually  adopting  the  truths  of  the  everlasting  gospel. 


ELDER  GEORGE  T.  HYDE 


127 


The  Word  of  Wisdom,  is  a  wonderful  and  great  law  of  life, 
simple  truths  of  living  I  oftimes  term  it,  which  our  Father  in  heaven 
so  mercifully  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  guide  us 
in  our  daily  lives  that  we  might  be  physically  strong,  that  we  might 
be  spiritually  awake  and  strong.  Those  wonderful  principles  enunciated 
in  that,  are  being  adopted  by  the  scientists  and  men  of  wisdom 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  earth,  and  today  many 
of  our  foremost  men  of  science,  men  of  ability  along  many  lines, 
are  advocating  the  living  of  those  simple  rules  of  life,  the  abstaining 
from  strong  drink,  from  tobacco,  from  tea  and  from  coffee,  and 
from  using  meat  to  excess — adopting  those  great  truths  that  were 
made  known  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  early  history  of 
the  Church.  So  likewise  are  they  adopting  many  other  of  the  truths 
of  the  gospel,  and  so  I  feel  that,  by  and  by,  in  the  providences  of  our 
Father  in  heaven,  that  the  converts  to  the  Church  will  be  more  numer- 
ous than  they  are  at  the  present  time.  I  feel  that  in  the  near  future 
they  will  flock  to  the  standard  of  Christ  by  the  thousands.  And 
this  brings  home  to  us  the  necessity  on  our  part  of  living  the  gos- 
pel and  teaching  our  children  the  wonderful  truths  of  it,  that  they 
may  grow  up  in  the  fear  and  admonition  of  the  Lord,  full  of  faith 
and  the  knowledge  of  the  gospel  that  they  may  proclaim  its  won- 
drous truths  to  the  nations  and  be  capab'e  and  able  ministers  of  the 
word. 

It  was  a  wonderful  address  we  had  this  morning  from  Elder 
Richards,  relative  to  the  youth  of  Israel.  I  never  before  listened  to 
such  a  wonderful  discourse  upon  that  particular  theme.  He  handled 
it  so  beautifully!  It  touched  my  heart.  I  have  always  felt,  and  I 
feel  now,  that  we  owe  to  our  children  a  good  and  proper  example. 
The  great  truth  has  come  into  my  life,  that  example  goes  much 
farther  than  precept.  O  it  is  easy  to  talk  to  them;  it  is  easy  to 
tell  them,  do  this,  and  do  that,  but  it  is  a  difficult  thing,  some- 
times, to  live  the  principles  which  we  advocate.  Our  daily  lives 
should  be  such,  that  our  children  can  follow  in  our  footsteps.  We 
should  live  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  by  our  example 
teach  it  to  eur  children.  If  we  would  have  them  observe  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  I  feel  that  we  should  observe  it.  If  we  would  have  them 
honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it  holy,  I  feel  that  we  should 
honor  the  Sabbath  day.  If  we  expect  them  to  grow  up  full  of 
faith  and  integrity  and  active  in  the  Church,  our  lives  must  be  such 
that  they  will  lead  our  children  into  activity. 

I  was  never  before  so  stirred  in  my  life  as  I  was  some  six  months 
ago  with  the  address  of  President  Grant,  when  it  was  published  in  one 
of  the  periodicals.  It  appealed  to  me  so  strongly  that  "I  am  going  to 
read  an  extract  to  you : 

This  was  toward  the  conclusion  of  that  wonderful  address.  He 
,says : 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"I  desire  to  read  just  two  paragraphs  from  the  prayer  given  at  the 
dedication  of  the  Alberta  temple: 

"  'We  thank  thee,  O  Father,  for  the  knowledge  which  we  possess 
that  thou  dost  live  and  that  thy  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer  and 
our  Savior,  and  that  thy  servant  Joseph  Smith,  Junior,  was  and  is  a 
prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  And,  O  Father,  may  we  ever 
be  true  and  faithful  to  the  gospel  of  thy  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  revealed 
through  thy  son  Jospeh.  We  especially  pray  thee,  O  Father  in  heaven, 
to  bless  the  youth  of  thy  people  in  Zion  and  in  all  the  world.  Shield 
them  from  the  adversary  and  from  wicked  and  designing  men.  Keep  the 
youth  of  thy  people,  O  Father,  in  the  straight  and  the  narrow  path  that 
leads  to  thee.  Preserve  them  from  the  pitfalls  and  snares  that  are  laid 
for  their  feet.  O,  Father,  may  our  children  grow  up  in  the  nurture  and 
admonition  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Give  unto  them  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  this  work,  as  thou  hast  given  it  unto  us,  and  preserve  them  in 
purity  and  in  the  truth.' " 

Then  he  added,  "And  I  say  unto  you,  O  fathers  in  Israel:  if  you  will 
set  an  example  by  being  honest  before  God  in  the  payment  of  your 
tithes,  if  you  will  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  if  you  will  observe  your 
family  and  your  secret  prayers,  God  will  give  you  strength  to  preserve 
the  youth  of  Zion,  as  mentioned  in  this  supplication.  May  the  Lord  bless 
us  and  pour  out  upon  us  richly  his  Holy  Spirit  during  this  conference,  is 
my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen." 

That  which  appeals  to  me  in  this  is  that  we  desire  that  our  chil- 
dren grow  up  in  purity,  that  they  be  active  men  and  women  in  the 
Church,  honorable  members  of  the  communities  where  they  live.  Here 
are  the  words  of  the  living  prophet,  pointing  out  to  us  how  we  may 
be  successful.  Our  children  are  dearer  to  us  than  all  the  world ; 
they  are  the  most  precious  jewels  that  .our  Father  in  heaven  could 
give  us.  We  love  them.  We  would  give  our  very  lives  for  them, 
and  here  are  a  few  simple  rules  of  life  for  their  preservation,  if  we 
will  but  observe  these  rules,  the  prophet  said  we  will  be  .successful 
in  rearing  our  children  in  purity  and  deliver  them  from  the  pitfalls 
that  constantly  beset  their  paths.  If  we  will  observe  the  law  of  tithing 
honestly  before  God  and  before  our  children,  if  we  will  faithfully 
observe  our  family  and  secret  prayers,  and  if  we  will  faithfully 
observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom — the  prophet  says  we  shall  have  power 
and  strength  to  preserve  our  children  in  purity.  That  is  one  of  the 
greatest  promises  that  has  ever  been  made  to  us,  and  I  have  faith 
in  it,  I  believe  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  want  to  bear  my 
testimony  that  if  you  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  observe 
to  do  them,  you  will  be  successful  in  the  rearing  of  your  children. 

In  conclusion,  I  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  great  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  know  that  it  is  of  God,  that  in  this 
day  and  age  of  the  world  he  came  from  heaven  to  earth  and  visited 
the  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  that  other  messengers  came  to  Joseph 
under  the  direction  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  restored  the  gospel 
in  all  its  purity,  with  all  its  power,  keys,  and  authority — all  that  is 
necessary  for  the  salvation,  and  exaltation  of  all  the  children  of  men. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  May  you  appre- 
ciate the  blessing  of  membership  in  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  I  pray.  Amen. 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


129 


ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

(Assistant  Church  Historian) 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  will  be  a  hard  task  for 
me,  as,  in  fact,  it  has  been  for  the  speakers  who  have  preceded  me, 
to  hold  my  own  against  the  amplifiers.  The  people  here  assembled 
have  the  choice  between  remaining  seated  here  and  listening"  to  us,  or 
going  out  on  the  lawn  to  have  a  standing  seat  and  listening  to  what  is 
going  on  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  unless  we  are  endowed  with  an  unusual 
degree  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  thereby  draw  your  interest,  it 
may  be  a  hard  matter  to  keep  you  here.  But  I  feel  that  the  Saints 
gathered  in  this  Assembly  Hall  are  entitled  to  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  as  much  as  those  congregated  in  the  Tabernacle,  as  this  meet- 
ing has  been  appointed  by  proper  authority,  and  speakers  selected, 
and  it  is  our  privilege  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  it  is  the 
privilege  of  the  speakers  here  as  well  as  the  listeners,  to  receive  the 
bread  of  life. 

I  rejoice  with  my  brethren  in  the  excellent  conference  we  have 
had,  so  far,  and  the  last  meeting,  which  is  now  in  session  over  in 
the  Tabernacle,  is  undoubtedly  as  interesting  and  instructive  as  the 
former  sessions  have  been,  and  I  trust  that  we  all  shall  leave  feeling 
that  we  have  had  one  of  the  best  conferences  the  Church  has  ever 
held. 

Never  before  since  the  Church  was  organized,  have  so  many 
people  attended  a  general  conference  as  on  this  occasion,  and  it 
reminds  me  that  it  is  just  eighty  years  ago  today  since  President 
Joseph  Smith,  the  martyr,  also  had  occasion  to  attend  the  largest 
conference  the  Church  ever  held  up  to  that  time.  It  was  the  mem- 
orable conference  held  in  April,  1844,  (the  last  conference  the 
Prophet  attended)  on  which  occasion  he  asserted  that  all  of  North 
and  South  America  was  the  land  of  Zion.  Up  to  that  time  some 
of  the  brethren  had  entertained  the  idea  that  Nauvoo  was  already 
too  far  from  Jackson  county,  Missouri,  which  was  called  Zion,  or 
the  place  for  the  building  of  the  City  of  Zion,  and  some  of  them  had 
misgivings  in  regard  to  living  in  Illinois,  thinking  they  were  too 
far  away  from  Jackson  county,  to  be  included  in  the  land  of  Zion. 
The  Prophet's  declaration  was  therefore  good  and  timely,  as  we  are 
now  very  much  farther  away  from  Jackson  county  than  Nauvoo  is, 
and  yet  we  are  in  the  land  of  Zion,  representing  as  we  do  here  ninety 
stakes  of  Zion,  all  organized  in  this  western  land  since  the  days  of 
Nauvoo. 

I  am  expected,  according  to  the  appointment  received,  to  say 
something  to  you  in  regard  to  the  importance  of  history  and  the 
necessity  of  record-keeping.  We  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  un- 
usually blessed  in  regard  to  this  matter,  as  the  Lord  has  revealed 
to  us  in  these  the  last  days  some  of  the  missing  links  in  the  history 
of  the  world.  When  we  were  a  part  of  the  sectarian  world,  some 
of  us  were  taught  that  the  Lord  created  the  world  out  of  nothing; 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


but  the  Lord,  in  new  Scriptures,  has  revealed  unto  us  the  true  history 
of  the  creation.  On  a  certain  occasion  the  Lord  called  Moses  up 
into  an  exceeding  high  mountain  and  there  showed  him  his  creations 
— the  many  worlds  that  he  had  created.  But  he  told  Moses  that 
he  could  not  comprehend  them  all,  as  there  were  so  many  worlds 
that  mortal  man  could  not  number  them,  but  that  those  worlds  are 
all  numbered  to  the  Lord.  God  then  said :  "And  now,  Moses, 
my  son,  I  will  speak  unto  thee  concerning  this  earth  upon  which 
thou  standest;  and  thou  shalt  write  the  things  which  I  shall  speak." 
(Moses  1 :40) .  The  Lord  then  revealed  to  Moses  how  the  earth  on  which 
we  live  came  into  existence.  This  question  has  often  arisen :  Where 
did  Moses,  the  first  recognized  historian,  get  his  information 
from,  in  regard  to  the  creation  of  the  world,  and  also  in  regard  to 
the  flood,  to  Enoch,  and  Abraham  and  other  patriarchs?  What  his- 
torians had  written  books  before  him  from  which  he  could  copy? 
Legend  says  that  a  big  pillar  with  historical  inscriptions  upon  it  had 
been  erected  on  or  near  the  site  of  old  Babylon,  on  the  river  Euphra- 
tes, but  that  assertion  has  never  been  verified.  The  facts  are  that 
the  Lord  took  Moses  up  on  a  high  mountain  and  there  revealed  to 
him  how  the  earth  came  into  existence,  and  also  told  him  about  our 
father  Adam  in  the  garden  of  Eden,  how  he  fell  from  grace,  and 
furthermore  that  the  gospel  that  we  are  preaching  here  today,  and  in 
which  we  rejoice  at  the  present  time,  was  preached  to  Adam  in  the 
beginning,  and  did  not  come  into  existence  in  the  meridian  of  time. 
John  was  not  the  first  man  who  baptized,  but  Adam  was  taught  the 
principle  of  baptism.  The  gospel,  as  we  receive  it  now,  and  as  we 
understand  it,  was  revealed  to  father  Adam,  was  revealed  to  Enoch 
and  Noah,  was  preached  to  Abraham,  and  was  known  in  part  in 
the  days  of  Moses.  This  knowledge  has  come  to  us  through  the 
faithful  labors  of  historians.  The  Ten  Commandments  were  written 
by  the  finger  of  the  Lord  himself  upon  tablets  of  stone,  and  in  ad- 
dition to  that,  Moses  wrote  his  books,  which  seem  to  have  existed 
in  fragmentary  form  among  the  Israelites  for  generations,  and  when 
the  great  Babylonian  captivity  took  place  the  people  were  scattered,  as 
well  as  their  records,  and  the  Children  of  Israel  lost  for  a  while 
their  national  identity  and  records ;  but  when  the  Israelites  came  back 
from  the  Babylonian  captivity  there  was  a  general  reconstruction  of 
affairs,  under  the  direction  of  Ezra,  the  priest,  and  Nehemiah,  who 
were  the  accepted  leaders  of  the  return  to  Jerusalem ;  and  it  is  recorded 
that  the  people  got  very  much  interested  in  their  records  and  gen- 
ealogies.  The  following  is  from  the  writings  of  Nehemiah : 

"All  the  people  gathered  themselves  together ;  *  *  *  and  they  spake  to 
Ezra,  the  scribe,  to  bring  the  book  of  the  law  of  Moses,  which  the  Lord 
had  commanded  to  Israel,  and  Ezra  the  priest  brought  the  law  before  the 
congregation,  both  of  men  and  women,  and  all  that  could  hear  with  under- 
standing *  *  *  *  and  he  read  therein  *  *  *  *  and  Ezra  the  scribe 
stood  upon  a  pulpit  of  wood,  which  they  had  made  for  the  purpose  *  *  * 
and   Ezra  opened   the  hook  in  sight  of  all  the  people    *    *    *    *  and 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


131 


when  he  opened  it,  all  the  people  stood  up:  and  Ezra  blessed  the  Lord,  the 
great  God.  And  all  the  people  answered,  'Amen,  Amen,'  with  lifting  up 
their  hands;  and  they  bowed  their  heads,  and  worshipped  the  Lord  with 
their  faces  to  the  ground  *  *  *  *  So  they  read  in  the  book  in  the 
law  of  God  distinctly,  and  gave  the  sense,  and  caused  them  to  understand 
the  reading  *  *  *  *  All  the  people  wept,  when  they  heard  the  words 
of  the  law."  (Neh.  8:1-9). 

We  can  scarcely  realize  how  much  we  are  indebted  to  the  his- 
tory of  the  past  which  has  been  written  for  our  benefit.  Reverting 
to  the  history  of  the  creation,  we  have  a  duplicate  form  of  the 
same  in  what  was  written  by  Abraham,  many,  many  years  ago — re- 
vealed anew  in  our  dispensation.  The  writings  of  Abraham,  which 
came  into  the  possession  of  Joseph  Smith  in  1835,  contain  a  very 
beautiful  account  of  the  creation  of  the  world,  going  hand  in  hand 
with  that  which,  a  little  later,  was  revealed  to  Moses.  When,  in  a 
sectarian  world,  some  of  us  were  taught  as  children  that  God  created 
the  earth  out  of  nothing,  we  were  taught  that  which  is  not  true. 
The  writings  of  Abraham  tell  us  that  the  Lord  stood  among  those 
"who  were  with  him."  That  accounts  for  the  term  "Gods"  being  used 
sometimes  instead  of  the  singular  form  "God".  God  stood  in  the 
midst  of  his  associates  and  said  to  them: 

"We  will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and  we  will  take  of  these 
materials  and  we  will  make  an  earth  wherein  these  (God's  children)  may 
dwell,  and  we  will  prove  them  herewith  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them.  And  they  who  keep 
their  first  estate  shall  be  added  upon;  and  they  who  keep  not  their  first 
estate  shall  not  have  glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  those  who  keep 
their  first  estate;  and  they  who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have  glory 
added  upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever."  (Book  of  Abraham  3:24-26). 

This  is  a  most  beautiful  revelation  which  has  come  to  us  in  these 
last  days  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  We  frequently  sing : 
"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  "Praise  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah,"  etc.,  in  appreciation  of  modern  prophets 
and  modern  revelations,  because  these  new  revelations  serve  as  a  key 
to  the  old  revelations.  The  Christian  world  generally  have  one  book, 
the  Bible,  which  they  do  not  understand,  while  the  Latter-day  Saints 
have  four  sacred  books,  which  they  do  understand,  for  the  Lord  has 
given  us  the  key  in  new  revelation  to  both  new  and  old  revelations. 

And  here  we  have  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Do  you  know  what 
importance  was  attached  to  records  in  the  early  Book  of  Mormon 
days?  Does  it  appeal  to  you  that  a  certain  justifiable  homicide  was 
committed  in  the  interest  of  the  family  of  Lehi  which  left  Jerusalem 
600  years  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior?  Do  you  remember  what 
happened  to  Laban  who  lived  in  Jerusalem  at  the  time  that  Lehi  and 
his  family  were  commanded  by  the  Lord  to  leave  that  city  to  go 
into  the  wilderness,  relying  upon  the  Lord  leading  them  to  a  land 
of  promise  far  away  ?  After  they  had  been  in  the  wilderness  a  short 
time,  they  realized  that  they  had  no  records  with  ihem.    They  did 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


not  even  know  the  genealogy  of  their  forefathers;  but  Laban,  then- 
kinsman,  had  the  records,  and  Nephi,  the  faithful  ,son  of  Lehi,  and 
his  brethren,  were  commanded  to  go  back  to  Jerusalem  to  obtain  these 
records  from  Laban.  They  gathered  all  the  gold  and  silver  and 
precious  things  which  the  family  had  left  in  Jerusalem  at  the  time 
of  their  exodus,  and  offered  it  to  Laban  in  exchange  for  the  records. 
But  Laban,  seeing  the  treasure,  was  tempted  to  possess  it,  and,  after 
getting  it,  he  sent  his  servants  after  Nephi  and  his  brethren  to  kill 
them,  and  they  would  undoubtedly  have  been  destroyed,  had  they 
not  succeeded  in  escaping  from  Jerusalem.  Laban  took  their  property 
and  kept  the  records.  But  Nephi  prevailed  upon  his  brethren  to 
return  to  Jerusalem  once  more  and  try  again.  The  Lord  certainly 
did  not  want  the  family  of  Lehi  to  go  into  this  land  of  promise 
without  a  knowledge  of  their  forefathers,  for  in  that  case  they  would 
be  in  danger  of  losing  not  only  their  genealogy,  but  also  their  lan- 
guage and'  religion.  When  the  sons  of  Lehi  arrived  in  Jerusalem 
and  found  Laban  in  possession  of  the  riches  of  which  he  had  robbed 
the  estate  of  Lehi,  they  devised  new  plans  for  obtaining  the  records, 
and  to  cut  a  long  story  short  Nephi  was  constrained,  or  rather  com- 
manded, by  the  spirit,  to  slay  Laban.  It  was  better  that  one  wicked 
man  should  perish  than  that  the  whole  people  which  the  Lord  in- 
tended to  lead  into  the  promised  land  far  away,  should  dwindle  into 
ignorance  and  unbelief.  That  is  how  the  Nephite.s  came  possessed 
of  the  brass  plates,  which,  among  other  things,  contained  the  law 
of  Moses,  even  similar  writings  to  those  which  caused  the  Israelites 
in  the  days  of  Ezra  and  Nehemiah  to  glorify  God.  On  that  occasion 
the  law  of  Moses  and  other  things  which  had  been  written  were 
preserved  for  the  benefit  of  the  Israelites  who  returned  to  Jerusalem, 
after  their  captivity  in  Babylon,  to  rebuild  the  temple  and  to  com- 
mence anew  their  national  existence. 

And  so  the  sons,  of  Lehi  obtained  the  brass  plates  and  in  due 
course  of  time  crossed  the  great  waters  to  the  land  of  promise.  But 
the  brass  plates  were  not  sufficient;  the  Lord  commanded  Nephi 
to  make  plates  of  his  own — golden  plates — upon  which  he  might  record 
the  doings  of  his  own  people.  Thus  Nephi  made  a  record  upon 
his  plates  of  how  his  father's  family  left  Jerusalem,  how  they  traveled 
through  the  wilderness,  how  they  built  a  ship,  how  they  crossed  the 
great  waters,  and  how  they  finally  landed  upon  this  great  western 
continent,  this  land  of  America,  which  became  a  choice  land  above 
all  other  lands,  after  the  flood  had  devastated  the  earth  in  the  time 
of  Noah.  Now  it  is  recorded  that  Nephi  was  faithful  in  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God.  He  even  made  two  sets  of  plates;  on 
one  set  he  recorded  the  things  that  pertained  to  the  service  of  God, 
and  upon  the  other  plates,  which  were  the  larger  plates,  he  recorded 
the  secular  history  of  his  people,  including  the  story  of  the  kings 
and  some  of  the  troubles,  contentions  and  wars  which  occurred  be- 
tween the  Nephites  and  the  Lamanites.    We  have  in  the  Book  of 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


133 


Mormon  a  translation  from  the  small  plates  of  Nephi,  and  we  also 
have  in  that  sacred  record  Mormon's  abridgment  of  the  text  of  the 
large  plates  of  Nephi.  These  things  are  very'precious  to  us,  and  that 
such  would  be  the  case  was  well  understood  by  the  prophets  of  old, 
even  by  Nephi — that  same  Nephi  I  have  already  been  speaking  of — 
and  the  Lord  promised  him  that  if  he  would  be  faithful  in  recording  the 
history  of  his  people,  his  writings  should  be  preserved  for  the  benefit 
of  his  posterity.    In  his  second  book,  third  chapter  he  writes : 

"Wherefore,  the  fruit  of  thy  loins  shall  write;  and  the  fruit  of  the 
loins  of  Judah  shall  write;  and  that  which  shall  be  written  by  the  fruit 
of  thy  loins,  and  also  that  which  shall  be  written  by  the  fruit  of  the 
loins  of  Judah,  shall  grow  together,  unto  the  confounding  of  false  doc- 
trines, and  laying  down  of  contentions,  and  establishing  peace  among 
the  fruit  of  thy  loins,  and  bringing  them  to  the  knowledge  of  their  fathers 
in  the  latter  days;  and  also  to  the  knowledge  of  my  covenants,  saith  the 
Lord."  (2  Nephi  3:12). 

This  promise  was  repeated  later  on.  Nephi  writes,  "The  Lord 
God  promised  unto  me  that  these  things  which  I  write  shall  be  kept 
and  preserved  and  handed  down  unto  my  seed  from  generation  to 
generation."    (2  Nephi  25  :21). 

Enos,  a  son  of  Jacob  (Nephi's  brother),  writes,  "I  had  faith 
and  I  did  cry  unto  the  Lord  that  he  would  preserve  the  records, 
and  he  covenanted  with  me  that  he  would  bring  them  forth  unto  the 
Lamanites  in  his  own  due  time."    (Enos  1:16). 

Helaman  records  that  many  records  were  being  kept  of  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  Nephites.  He  says :  "There  are  many  books,  many 
records  of  every  kind,  and  they  have  been  kept  chiefly  by  the 
Nephites."  (Hela.  3:15). 

The  historian,  Mormon,  writes  in  his  abridgment,  "There  are 
records  which  do  contain  all  the  proceedings  of  this  people  and  a  more 
short  but  a  true  account  was  given  by  Nephi."  (That  is  part  of  the 
record  we  now  have).  "Therefore  I  have  made  my  record  of  these 
things  according  to  the  record  of  Nephi,  which  was  engraved  on  the 
plates  which  were  called  the  plates  of  Nephi.  And  behold  I  do  make 
the  record  upon  the  plates  which  I  have  made  with  mine  own  hands." 
(3  Nephi  5:9-16). 

I  will  read  one  more  extract.  Mormon,  in  giving  the  history  in 
his  abridgment  from  the  large  plates  of  Nephi,  departs  from  the 
historical  narrative  in  speaking  of  the  administration  of  Jesus  Christ 
among  the  Nephites,  and  writes: 

"And  now  there  cannot  be  written  in  this  book  [Mormon's  abridg- 
ment] even  a  hundredth  part  of  the  things  which  Jesus  did  truly  teach 
unto  the  people; 

"But  behold  the  plates  of  Nephi  do  contain  the  more  part  of  the 
things  which  he  taught  the  people  [of  Nephi].  - 

"And  these  things  have  I  written,  which  are  a  lesser  part  of  the  things 
which  he  taught  the  people;  and  I  have  written  them  to  the  intent  that 
they  may  be  brought  again  unto  this  people  from  the  Gentiles,  according 
to  the  words  which  Jesus  hath  spoken."  (3  Nephi  26:6-8). 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


1  will  quote  one  more  instance.  The  chief  recorder  in  those 
days  was  Nephi,  not  the  first  Nephi,  but  one  who  lived  later  on. 
A  prophet  by  the  name  of  Samuel,  a  Lamanite,  had  predicted  that 
when  Christ  should  rise  from  the  dead,  some  of  the  dead  Saints  who 
had  lived  in  former  days  should  arise  and  appear  unto  many,  and 
the  historian  had  seemingly  overlooked  that  fact,  and  when  Jesus 
visited  the  Nephites  on  another  occasion  (  for  he  visited  them  a  number 
of  times)  he  said  : 

"Bring  the  record  which  .ye  have  kept.  And  when  Nephi  had  brought 
forth  the  records  and  laid  them  before  him,  he  cast  his  eyes  upon  them  and 
said :  Verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  commanded  my  servant  Samuel,  the  Lamanite, 
that  he  should  testify  unto  this  people,  that  at  the  day  that  the  Father  should 
glorify  his  name  in  me  that  there  were  many  Saints  who  should  arise  from 
the  dead,  and  should  appear  unto  many,  and  should  minister  unto  them. 
And  lie  said  unto  them:  Were  it  not  so?  And  his  disciples  answered 
him  and  said:  Yea,  Lord,  Samuel  did  prophesy  according  to  thy  words, 
and  they  were  all  fulfilled.  And  Jesus  said  unto  them;  How  be  it  that 
ye  have  not  written  this  thing,  that  many  Saints  did  arise  and  appear  unto 
many  and  did  minister  unto  them?  And  it  came  to  pass  that  Nephi  re- 
membered that  this  thing  had  not  been  written.  And  it  came  to  pass 
that  Jesus  commanded  that  it  should  be  written;  therefore  it  was  written 
according  as  he  commanded." — (3  Nephi  23:7-13). 

Now,  passing  on,  brethren  and  sisters,  did  it  ever  occur  to  you  that 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  could  not  be  organized, 
or  at  least,  it  was  not  organized,  until  the  Book  of  Mormon  had  come 
forth.  We  are  called  "Mormons"  today,  and  while  the  name,  of 
course,  is  in  one  sense  a  misnomer,  it  is  not  altogether  so,  because 
there  were  none  known  as  "Mormons"  among  the  children  of  men  in 
America,  or  elsewhere,  until  the  Book  of  Mormon  appeared,  and  that 
book  came  into  existence  just  before  the  Church  was  organized. 
Thus  there  were  in  reality  "Mormons"  in  the  world  before  there  was 
any  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  for  as  soon  as  the 
Book  of  Mormon  had  been  printed,  Joseph  Smith  and  those  as- 
sociated with  him  at  once  became  known  as  "Mormons." 

We  find  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  contained  so  many  truths  in 
regard  to  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  when  we  place  it  beside 
the  New  Testament,  and  especially  with  that  which  was  written  by 
Matthew,  Mark,  Luke  and  John,  we  have  most  precious  documents. 
The  writings  of  these  four  evangelists  placed  by  the  side  of  that  which 
was  written  by  Nephi  and  the  other  historians  on  this  continent  give 
us  what  we  sometimes  call  the  fulness  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
That  does  not  imply  that  we  in  these  two  books  have  everything  the 
Lord  wants  us  to  know,  for  he  will  yet  reveal  many  things  which 
will  make  us  wise  unto  salvation.  However,  until  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon was  printed  in  the  English  language,  Joseph  Smith  was  not 
authorized  to  organize  the  Church,  but  with  the  Book_  of  Mormon 
and  the  Bible,  put  side  by  side,  he  understood  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  and  how  to  organize  the  Church,  being  aided  by  the  revelations 
which  he  from  time  to  time  received  from  the  Lord. 


ELDER  ANDREW  JEN  SON 


h*5 


The  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  very  interesting 
theme  to  speak  about.  We  frequently  deliver  lectures  on  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  we  do  not  tire  of  dwelling  upon  the  faithfulness  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph,  upon  the  testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  also  upon  the  solemn  testimony  of  the  Eight 
Witnesses.  We  are  pleased  to  know  that  all  these  men  were  true 
and  faithful  to  their  testimonies,  and  some  of  them  in  the  midst  of 
troubles  and  persecutions  staked  their  all  upon  the  fact  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  true. 

The  Nephite  record,  which,  according  to  prophesy,  should  come 
from  the  earth  lay  buried  in  the  Hill  Cumorah  for  1427  years.  The 
peop'e  of  which  the  book  bears  record  were  destroyed  from  the  earth 
and  the  record  was  sealed  up  and  buried  by  Moroni — the  last  Nephi 
prophet  and  historian.  When  it  finally  came  forth  it  was  like  a  voice 
from  the  ground,  or  a  message  from  the  grave.  The  Hill  Cumorah 
was  opened,  the  plates  delivered  by  Moroni  (who  now  appeared  as 
a  heavenly  messenger)  to  Joseph  who  translated  the  records  into 
English,  and  the  people  at  once  began  to  read  it.  It  was  the  record 
of  a  people  which  no  longer  existed,  but  which  had  once  flourished 
on  this  continent,  and  among  the  most  precious  narratives  contained 
in  it  was  an  account  of  that  which  God,  through  his  Son  and  his 
prophets,  accomplished  in  this  western  continent. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  coming  clown  to  our  own  day  and 
dispensation,  I  wish  to  remark  that  we  Latter-day  Saints  are  not 
destined  to  go  through  the  same  ordeal  as  the  Nephites;  we  are  not 
tO'  be  destroyed ;  we  are  to  stay  here  for  ever ;  hence  we  should  learn 
a  lesson  from  the  records  of  the  Bihe  and  the  Nephite  records  in 
regard  to  the  keeping  of  our  own  records.  What  if  we  had  no 
historians  today?  What  could  we  do  even  now  in  writing  the  history 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  so  many  years  after  he  suffered  martyr- 
dom? Tt  could  be  done  perhaps  after  a  fashion,  but  could  not  be 
done  correctly  from  memory ;  but  we  have  a  good  record  of  the  Church 
from  the  beginning  written  at  the  time  when  the  events  occurred. 
Permit  me  to  remind  you  of  the  fact  that  the  very  first  commandment 
which  the  Lord  gave  to  his  Church  almost  immediately  after  it  was 
organized,  was  this :  "Behold  there  shall  be  a  record  kept  among 
you."  You  will  find  this  the  very  first  sentence  of  the  very  first 
revelation  given  to  the  Church  after  its  organization  on  the  6th  of 
April,  1830. 

Oliver  Cowdery,  who  had  assisted  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
translating  the  Book  of  Mormon,  was  made  the  first  Church  recorder. 
Later,  John  Whitmer,  one  of  the  Eight  Witnesses,  was  called  to  be 
the  Church  recorder,  and  since  that  time  we  have  always  had  Church 
recorders  and  historians. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want'to  emphasize  the  importance 
of  keeping  records.  We  should  feel  like  Parley  P.  Pratt  who,  in 
writing  the  preface  to  his  Voice  of  Warning,  said:  "Should  the  author 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  called  to  sacrifice  his  life  for  the  cause  of  truth,  he  will  have 
the  consolation  that  it  will  be  said  of  him  as  it  was  said  of  Abel,  viz: 
Tie  being  dead,  yet  speaketh'."  Parley  P.  Pratt  is  alive  today.  He 
was  martyred  in  1857  by  a  wicked  man,  near  the  town  of  Van 
Buren,  in  Arkansas,  but  Elder  Pratt  is  still  preaching  the  gospel ;  his 
Voice  of  Warning  is  read  by  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  today. 
His  Key  to  Theology  and  his  Autobiography  are  still  read  by  the  youth 
of  Zion,  and,  if  I  can  judge  from  my  own  experience,  the  Autobiography 
of  Parley  P.  Pratt  has  made  a  deeper  impression  upon  the  youth 
of  Israel  than  any  other  book  that  has  been  written  so  far.  In  saying 
this  I  do  not  slight  any  other  literary  production  written  by  the 
Elders  of  the  Church,  but  the  Autobiography  of  Parley  P.  Pratt  is, 
in  my  estimation,  faith-promoting  from  the  first  to  the  last  chapter, 
and  to  me  it  proved  an  inspiration  indeed.  I  owe  to  the  existence 
and  to  the  reading  of  that  book  much  of  what  I  am  today.  After 
reading  that  book  I  felt  a  great  desire  to  become  a  servant  of  God, 
and  in  my  reflections  I  thought:  Why  cannot  I  seek  unto  God  and 
receive  similar  blessings  to  those  received  by  Brother  Pratt?  So  I 
began  as  a  youth  to  seek  more  earnestly  after  the  truth  of  heaven  than 
I  had  ever  sought  before,  and  I  desired  to  become  a  missionary. 
I  wanted  to  preach  the  gospel,  and  the  Lord  in  that  regard  has 
answered  my  prayers,  as  I  have  filled  a  number  of  missions  for  the 
Church. 

But  I  have  been  more  particularly  interested  in  the  history  of 
our  people.  A  short  time  ago  I  summarized  the  number  of  miles 
which  I  have  traveled  in  my  lifetime.  That  may  not  mean  much,  as 
our  salvation  does  not  depend  upon  the  number  of  miles  traveled  or 
the  length  of  sermons  preached.  But  there  is  nevertheless  something 
interesting  connected  with  preaching  and  traveling,  when  done  with 
an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God ;  and  when  I  discovered  that  I  had 
traveled  something  like  469,000  miles,  mainly  in  the  interest  of  Church 
history,  I  felt  somewhat  satisfied  with  my  ei  forts  and  the  discharge 
of  my  duties  in  that  direction. 

Now,  I  wish  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we 
are  still  pioneers  in  the  cause  of  Christ.  "Mormonism"  is  not  yet 
one  hundred  years  old,  and  we  have  as  a  fact  only  just  commenced 
to  exist  as  a  people.  One  thought  I  desire  to  impress  here  upon  you. 
It  is  this :  If  you  ever  had  a  desire  to  live  in  the  days  of  the  Savior 
and  to  belong  to  that  Church  which  he  and  his  apostles  organized 
1900  years  ago,  you  would,  after  the  lapse  of  100  years,  have  had 
the  choice  of  one  of  two  things :  either  to  become  a  martyr  for  the 
gospel's  sake,  or  to  be  swept  away  by  the  wave  of  apostasy.  Compare 
this  with  the  assertion  made  at  this  conference  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  never  in  a  better  condition 
than  it  is  today,  and  that  its  membership  was  never  more  numerous 
or  prosperous  than  it  is  at  the  present  time.  What  can  we  say  of 
the  original  Church  in  the  light  of  history,  after  it  had  existed  one 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


137 


hundred  years?  There  was  very  little  left  of  it.  The  apostasy  which 
commenced  to  show  itself  in  the  days  of  Paul  had  spread  to  such 
an  extent  that  after  the  great  lights  of  the  Church  had  fallen  as 
martyrs,  the  great  majority  of  the  Saints  had  turned  away  from  the 
gospel  as  originally  taught  by  the  Savior.  So  we  thank  God  for  the 
(dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  and  we  are  writing  the  history 
of  a  people  the  like  of  which  has  never  been  written  before.  It  is 
not  a  history  of  an  ancient  people,  or  of  a  past  dispensation,  such  as 
that  of  the  first  Christian  era  or  the  dispensation  of  Adam,  Enoch, 
Noah,  Abraham  and  Moses.  All  these  dispensations  had  their  day, 
and  we  know  something  of  their  history.  But  in  our  case  the  work  of 
the  Lord  is  here  to  remain,  and  it  behooves  us  to  remain  with  it ;  and 
our  children  after  us,  we  trust,  will  continue  the  work  even  more  faith- 
fully and  successfully  than  we  have  done. 

My  message  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  this :  You,  and 
particularly  the  old  veterans  who  sit  before  me  (and  you  will  all  be  old 
by  and  by),  write  your  histories  and  biographies.  1  am  already  gray- 
haired  myself.  I  commenced  my  missionary  experience  when  I  was 
the  youngest  of  all  my  missionary  companions,  but  now  I  am  num- 
bered among  the  older  ones,  and  I  would  like  to  feel  that  I  have  not 
lived  in  vain.  I  do  not  wish  to  die,  I  never  want  to  die.  I  know  I 
shall  die  as  to  mortality,  but  otherwise  I  want  to  live  on  continuously, 
and  I  want  to  leave  something  for  posterity.  I  have  been  privileged 
to  write  some  books  which  I  think  will  be  read  with  considerable  in- 
terest after  I  shall  have  passed  to  the  other  side ;  they  are  already 
appreciated  by  some.  And  as  I  think  of  myself  I  think  of  you — you 
fathers  and  mothers — who  are  now  living  but  who  in  a  little  while  will 
be  in  the  spirit  world,  like  myself.  Do  you  not  desire  to  leave  behind  you 
something  for  your  children  to  read?  Do  you  not  desire  to  preach 
the  gospel  after  you  are  dead  and  gone  as  to  mortality?  If  you  do, 
write  your  histories.  Dictate  the  experiences  of  your  lives  to  your 
sons  and  daughters,  that  they  may  write  them,  for  wc  have  among  us 
many  young  and  talented  people,  our  sons  and  daughters  and  grand- 
children, who  can  write  good  English.  Let  them,  from  your  dictation, 
record  something  of  your  life's  work,  and  do  it  without  delay.  Take 
this  timely  advice  from  one  of  your  historians  who  has  spent  his 
whole  life  in  studying  these  matters.  Do  not  be  satisfied  to  live  *he 
short  span  of  seventy  years,  but  live  forever!  Record  that  which 
God  has  done  for  you  and  by  you,  and  if  you  have  a  testimony  that 
this  is  the  work  of  God,  bequeath  that  testimony  to  posterity.  I 
believe  that  nearly  all  who  are  sitting  here  under  the  sound  of  my  v  oice 
could  bear  the  same  testimony  as  those  who  have  testified  from  this 
stand — the  speakers  at  these  meetings.  Based  upon  many  years  of 
observations,  I  may  make  the  statement  that  our  sons  and  dajghters 
will  think  more  of  us  after  we  have  left  them  than  they  do  now.  when 
we  are  with  them.  Parents,  as  a  rule,  are  not  appreciated  as  they 
fhould  be  until  after  they  have  passed  into  eternity.    Then,  after  the 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


children  become  fatherless  and  motherless,  they  will  appreciate  their 
parentage,  and  endeavor  to  remember  what  their  fathers  and  mothers 
have  taught  them  by  precept  as  well  as  by  example.  Let  us  not  rely 
upon  the  public  records  to  do  us  justice,  but  let  us  pay  special  attention 
also  to  our  individual  records  which  will  be  of  equal  importance  to  those 
who  shall  live  after  us,  and  particularly  to  our  own  posterity  throughout 
generations  to  come. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  My  testimony  is  the  same 
as  those  which  have  been  borne  by  my  brethren  who  have  already 
addressed  you.  "Mormonism"  is  true.  Joseph  Smith  is  a  true  Prophet. 
Through  him  God  restored  to  earth  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  I  for  one,  feel  that  I  owe  everything  that  I  am  in  life,  spiritually 
and  temporally,  to  that  gospel,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  And  I  feel 
grateful  to  the  father  of  these  boys  (referring  to  two  sons  of  the  late 
Apostle  Erastus  Snow  sitting  on  the  stand)  who  came  over  to  Scand- 
inavia in  1850  to  introduce  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  the 
inhabitants  of  northern  Europe.  I  was  then  in  the  spirit  world,  and 
I  imagine  that  1  thought  it  was  time  for  me  to  enter  into  mortality, 
so  I  asked  God  to  send  me  down  to  be  born  on  the  11th  of  December, 
1850,  as  Erastus  Snow  and  his  brethren  had  arrived  in  Denmark  on 
the  14th  of  June  previously.  I  do  not  remember  that  1  asked  to  be 
sent  down  at  the  time  of  my  birth,  but  I  can  imagine  such  a  possibility, 
because  in  the  spirit  world  I  may  have  known  something  of  what  was 
taking  place  on  the  earth  and  may  have  asked  for  the  privilege  of 
coming  down  to  take  part  in  this  gospel  dispensation. 

God  bless  you.  May  he  enable  us  all  to  do  our  duty,  not  only 
in  history-making  and  record-keeping,  but  in  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God  generally  speaking,  until  the  end,  so  that  we  eventually 
may  be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  This  is  my  desire  and  sincere 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Church  authorities  were  presented  and  unanimously  sustained, 
as  at  the  Tabernacle. 

The  choir  sang.  "Glorious  things  of  Thee  are  spoken,"  and  bene- 
d:cf'on  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Prank  R.  Snow  of  the  High  Council 
of  Ensign  stake. 

CLOSING  SESSION 

The  closing  session  of  the  conference  was  held  in  the  Tablernacle 
on  Sunday  Afternoon,  April  6,  1924,  at  2  o'clock.  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God 
like  a  fire  is  burning." 

Invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  Daniel  G.  Miller,  President  of 
the  Yellowstone  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  sang  the  song,  "Have  faith,  ye  Saints." 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


139 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

I  desire  earnestly,  while  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon, 
to  have  the  words  I  speak  prompted  by  the  spirit  of  our  heavenly 
Father. 

APPEAL  FOR  GREATER  INTEREST  IN  LEARNING  HOW  TO  LEAD  AND  TEACH 

THE  YOUNG. 

Like  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards,  I  was  greatly  pleased  to  have 
the  President  in  his  opening  adres.s  make  a  special  appeal  to  parents 
and  to  the  members  of  the  Church  generally  in  the  interest  of  proper 
training  for  our  young  people.  I  propose  this  afternoon  to  make 
an  appeal,  as  strong  as  is  in  my  power,  to  all  the  people  of  the  Church 
to  take  advantage  of  the  training  that  is  being  offered  in  practically 
every  ward  in  the  Church  in  the  teacher-training  classes. 

We  are  a  community  of  teachers.  Only  by  teaching  effectively 
can  our  real  mission  be  accomplished.  By  taking  this  work  in  teacher- 
training,  certainly  all  who  desire  to  do  so  can  increase  their  teaching 
efficiency.  If  you  have  a  son  over  whom  you  do  not  have  satis- 
factory control,  I  believe  the  teacher-training  course  will  help  you  to 
secure  that  control.  If  you  have  a  daughter  who  does  not  seem  to 
take  kindly  to  your  instructions,  if  she  is  not  willing  to  go  in  that  way 
which  you  indicate,  your  influence  with  her,  I  believe,  will  be  greater 
if  you  study  teacher-training. 

1  f  you  are  presiding  over  a  ward,  or  a  stake,  or  any  organization, 
if  you  are  a  teacher  in  a  class.  I  believe  you  will  be  able  to  do  your 
work  more  effectively  if  you  take  up  this  course  of  study.  In  the 
Church  we  want  more  men  like  George  Goddard ;  more  men  like 
Karl  G.  Maeser,  and  George  H.  Brimhall.  These  are  unusual  teachers. 
By  study,  real  struggle,  and  inspiration,  they  have  acquired  the  in- 
formation contained  in  the  lessons  that  we  are  attempting  to  teach 
in  our  teacher-training  classes. 

EXAMPLE  OF  A  FARMER  WHO,  HAVING  THE  PRIESTHOOD,  WAS  A  GREAT 

TEACHER. 

Long  years  ago  in  one  of  our  "Mormon"  villages,  there  was 
a  great  teacher.  He  had  taken  no  college  honors,  nor  was  he  a 
public  school  teacher.  This  man  was  a  farmer.  His  hands  were 
plainly  marked  with  the  indications  of  arduous  toil.  He  wore  common 
clothing.  He  was  just  an  ordinary  laborer,  but  he  was  a  natural 
teacher,  a  great  teacher — a  teacher  of  the  Bible,  lie  taught  my  Sun- 
day school  class.  This  man  did  not  confine  his  teaching  to  the  Sabbath 
day,  nor  to  the  hours  of  Sunday  school.  During  the  evenings  of  the 
week  he  used  to  have  a  group  of  us  bare-footed,  commonly-clad  little 
youngsters  in  the  country  go  to  his  home,  and  there  he  would  teach 
us  our  Sunday  school  lessons. 

This  man  was  a  diligent  student  of  the  gospel,  of  the  scriptures, 
and  of  human  nature.    He  studied  thoroughly  both  his  subject  and 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


his  class.  Through  hard  work  and  inspiration  he  became  an  unusually 
inspirational  and  successful  teacher. 

I  shall  refer  somewhat  fully  to  one  lesson  which  he  taught  because  it 
illustrates  what  teachers  can  do  who  by  faithful  effort  acquire  splendid 
teaching  ability. 

This  man  magnified  the  Priesthood  which  he  held.  He  was  filled 
with  a  burning  testimony,  a  love  for  studying  the  scriptures  and  an 
ardent  desire  to  assist  in  teaching  the  gospel  to  all  the  world — for  he 
believed  the  scripture  which  says  that  when  this  has  been  accomplished 
"then  shall  the  end  come"'  (Matt.  24:14).  In  his  life,  his  work  and 
teaching,  he  certainly  sought  first  the  kingdom.  The  logic  in  the 
following  Bible  lesson  on  the  apostasy  and  restoration,  as  he  gave  it, 
illustrates  what  can  be  accomplished  by  those  who  use  the  methods 
that  are  taught  in  our  teacher-training  classes. 

The  teacher  was  preparing  us  for  our  Sunday  school  jubilee.  He 
would  instruct  us  something  like  this  : 

THE  GREAT  APOSTASY  PREDICTED 

"There  is  to  come  a  time  when  the  gospel  will  not  be  found 
anywhere  in  all  the  world.  I  learn  this  from  the  Bible.  The  scripture 
says:  (II  Tim.  4:3,4)  'For  the  time  will  come  when  they  will  not 
endure  sound  doctrine ;  but  after  their  own  lusts  shall  they  heap  unto 
themselves  teachers  having  itching  ears ;  and  they  shall  turn  away 
their  ears  from  the  truth  and  shall  be  turned  unto  fables'." 

"Now  boys,"  he  would  continue,  "that  prediction  is  recorded  in 
holy  writ.  Furthermore,  the  Bible  says:  (Isa.  24:5)  'the  earth  also 
is  defiled  under  the  inhabitants  thereof,  because  they  have  transgressed 
the  laws,  changed  the  ordinances,  broken  the  everlasting  covenant ;' 
that  is  the  Bible,  and  here,"  he  said,  "recorded  in  holy  writ,  are  the 
words  of  our  heavenly  Father  himself.  He  said  in  a  most  positive 
fashion  that  sometime  or  other,  the  gospel  shall  not  be  found  any- 
where in  all  the  world.    These  words  are  as  follows:  (Amos  8:11,12). 

THE  APOSTASY  TO  BE  UNIVERSAL. 

"  'Behold  the  days  come,  saith  the  Lord  God,  that  I  will  send 
a  famine  in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor  of  thirst  for  water, 
but  of  hearing  the  word  of  the  Lord.  And  they  shall  wander  from 
sea  to  sea,  and  from  the  north  even  to  the  east,  shall  they  run  to  and 
fro  to  seek  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  .shall  not  find  it.'  Thus  there 
is  predicted  a  time  when  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  cannot  be  found 
anywhere. 

GOOD  CHEER  FOR  THOSE  WHO  ENDURE  TO  THE  END. 

"But  I  want  you  boys  to  remember,"  continued  this  farmer 
teacher,  "that  the  scripture  also  says:  (Matt.  24:12),  'And  because 
iniquity  shall  abound,  the  love  of  many  will  wax  cold.'  But  you  must 
be  cheered  up,  all  the  time,  by  these  words  written  in  this  splendid 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


141 


book;  (Matt.  24:13)  'But  he  that  shall  endure  unto  the  end,  the  same 
shall  be  saved'." 

TEACHING  FOR   DOCTRINE   THE   COMMANDMENTS   OF  MEN 

This  man  with  a  group  of  country  boys,  bare-footed,  sitting  be- 
fore him,  was  a  real  master.  He  said :  "And  the  scripture  describes 
a  little  more  clearly  the  conditions  that  are  to  prevail  in  the  world,  for: 
'This  people  draweth  nigh  unto  me  with  their  mouth,  and  honoreth  me 
with  their  lips ;  but  their  heart  is  far  from  me.  But  in  vain  they  do 
worship  me,'  saith  the  Lord,  'teaching  for  doctrines  the  commandments 
of  men'."  (Matt.  15:8,  9). 

CONDITIONS  IN  THE  LAST  DAYS — THE  BOASTING  OF  SOME  WHO  LEARN 

A  LITTLE  SCIENCE. 

A  passage  he  used  to  emphasize  was  quoted  yesterday  by 
Dr.  Taimage.  It  reads:  (II  Tim.  3:1-3)  "This  know  also,  that 
in  the  last  days  perilous  times  shall  come.  For  men  shall  be  lovers 
of  their  own  selves,  covetous,  boasters,  proud,  blasphmers,  dis- 
obedient to  parents,  unthankful,  unholy.  Without  natural  af- 
fection, truce-breakers,  false  accusers,  incontinent,  fierce,  despisers 
of  those  that  are  good." 

"That  is  the  condition,  that  is  going  to  prevail  in  the  world. 
Men  will  even  be  'despisers  of  those  that  are  good'  (II  Tim.  3:3,  4), 
'traitors,  heady,  highminded.  lovers  of  pleasures  more  than  lovers 
of  God.'  I  want  you  boys  to  remember,"  said  this  great  farmer 
teacher,  "that  in  the  world  there  is  to  be  a  time  when  people  will 
be  lovers  of  pleasure  more  than  lovers  of  God,  traitors,  heady, 
highminded  lovers  of  pleasures,  as  I  have  said,  more  than  lovers 
of  God,  (II  Tim.  3:5)  'having  a  form  of  godliness,  but  denying 
the  power  thereof.'  These  are  they  who  rely  upon  themselves; 
these  are  they  who  are  called  scientific ;  these  are  they  who  rely 
upon  their  own  judgment.  These  are  they  who  think  they  have 
no  need  of  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  These  are  they 
who  boast  of  their  own  intelligence,  of  their  own  knowledge,  of  their 
own  studies,  of  their  own  conclusions,  these  are  they  who  have 
no  reliance  in,  and  think  they  need  no  help  from  the  God  of  Wash- 
ington, the  God  of  Franklin  and  the  God  of  Lincoln.  The  scripture 
tells  what  their  condition  is.  They  are  always  studying,  yes,  in 
the  language  of  the  Bible,  they  are  (II  Tim.  3:7)  'Ever  learning, 
and  never  able  to  come  to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth'." 

THE  THRILLING  DREAM 

Then  he  drew  our  attention  to  that  splendid  vision  of  Ne- 
buchadnezzar, the  King,  and  the  result  of  Daniel's  appeal  to  divine 
providence  for  information  concerning  the  dream  and  its  inter- 
pretation. The  king  had  forgotten  the  dream.  And  Daniel  prayed 
that  he  might  be  able  to  draw  the  dream  to  the  remembrance  of 
the  king  and  give  him  the  interpretation  thereof.    He  told  the  king 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  in  the  dream  he  saw  a  great  image  with  a  head  of  gold,  with 
shoulders  and  arms  of  silver,  with  body  and  thighs  of  brass,  with 
legs  of  iron,  with  feet  and  toes  of  iron  and  clay,  miry  clay,  mixed 
together.  And  that  he  saw  a  little  stone  cut  out  of  a  mountain 
without  hands;  and  that  it  rolled  forth  and  smote  upon  the  great 
image  and  broke  it  into  pieces,  and  the  little  stone  grew  into  a 
mountain  that  filled  the  whole  earth. 

Now  for  the  interpretation:  The  head  Daniel  saw,  represented 
the  king  himself.  There  are  to  be  other  kingdoms  afterwards  and 
these  are  to  be  divided — the  arms,  the  legs,  the  feet,  the  toes — 
these  represent  many  kingdoms.  See  with  what  clearness  the  Bible 
says:  (Dan.  2:44). 

THE   GOD  OF   HEAVEN   TO  SET  UP  A    KINGDOM   THAT   SHALL   NEVER  BE 
DESTROYED — TO    STAND  FOREVER. 

"  'And  in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall  the  god  of  heaven  set 
up  a  kingdom,  which  shall  never  be  destroyed.'  That  is  a  strong 
sentence.  I  put  the  emphasis  on  that  word,  never.  'A  kingdom  that 
shall  never  be  destroyed,'  nor  will  this  kingdom  be  left  to  other  people, 
'but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall 
stand  foreveS." 

"  'Forasmuch  as  thou  sawest  (Daniel  2:45)  that  the  stone  was  cut 
out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  and  that  it  brake  in  pieces  the  iron, 
the  brass,  the  clay,  the  silver  and  the  gold ;  the  great  God  hath  made 
known  to  the  king  what  shall  come  to  pass  hereafter ;  and  the  dream 
is  certain,  and  the  interpretation  thereof  sure,'  said  this  splendid  teacher, 
this  farmer,  this  man  of  God,  bearing  and  magnifying  the  holy  Priest- 
hood.   "Let  me  read  to  you  further,"  he  would  say:  (Rev.  14:6,  7). 

ANGEL  IN   THE  MIDST  OF  HEAVEN  RESTORING  THE  GOSPEL. 

"  '  And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  preach  to  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,  saying  with  a  loud  voice. 
Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him  ;  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come  : 
and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the  sea,  and  the 
fountains  of  waters.'    That  is  the  prophecy." 

Who  in  all  the  world  should  receive  the  angel?  A  philosopher,  a 
statesman,  a  wise  man,  a  scholar?  No,  a  boy;  place  your  trust  in  boys 
and  they  will  not  fail  you.  When  the  Father  himself,  the  great  Creator 
of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  wanted  to  deliver  an  important  message 
to  the  world,  he  called  a  boy.  The  angel  flew  through  the  midst  of 
heaven ;  the  angel  delivered  the  message.  Was  it  done  by  divine 
providence  or  by  the  wisdom  of  Joseph  Smith,  a  boy — age  fourteen? 

THE  TEMPLE  AN   EXPRESSION   OF  THE  FAITH   OF  THE   PEOPLE  IN  THE 
MESSAGE   OF    THE  ANGEL. 

Across  the  way,  on  this  very  block,  stands  that  great  temple  of 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


143 


granite,  dedicated  to  the  Lord.  On  the  top  of  it  is  a  statue  of  the 
Angel  Moroni,  placed  there  in  commemoration  of  the  fulfilment 
of  this  clear-cut  prophetic  .scripture. 

The  country  teacher  said :  "The  angel  is  to  fly  through  the  midst 
of  heaven ;  the  kingdom  is  to  be  established  over  which  Jesus,  the  Son 
of  God,  the  King  of  kings  and  the  Lord  of  lords,  is  to  preside." 

WHERE  IS  THE  KINGDOM  TO  BE  BUILT  THAT  SHALL  LAST  FOREVER? — WAR 

TO  CEASE. 

"Where  is  it  to  be  established?  We  look  to  the  Bible  for  that 
information." 

These  are  the  words  the  teacher  read.  They  were  quoted  yester- 
day by  President  Penrose:  (Micah  4:1,2) 

"But  in  the  last  days  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  the  mountain  of 
the  house  of  the  Lord  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  moun- 
tains, and  it  shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills ;  and  people  shall  flow 
unto  it.  And  many  nations  shall  come,  and  say,  "Come,  and  let  us  go 
up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  and  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob ; 
and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths :  for 
the  law  .shall  go  forth  of  Zion,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  from  Jeru- 
salem ;'  and  in  these  days,  the  last  days,  it  continues :  'And  he  shall 
judge  among  many  people,  (Micah  4:3)  and  rebuke  strong  nations 
afar  off;  and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares,  and  their 
spears  into  pruning  hooks :  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation, 
neither  shall  they  learn  war  any  more'." 

THE  GREAT  TEACHER,  A  FARMER,   BUT  A  MAN  OF  GOD. 

This  is  the  sort  of  lesson  that  one  plain  man  (Samuel  Orfne),  in 
a  little  "Mormon"  village,  (Tooele)  long  years  ago,  a  farmer  in  or- 
dinary farmer's  clothing,  taught  to  a  group  of  bare-footed  youngsters. 
God  bless  his  memory.  Let  us  remember  that  .scripture  that  he  em- 
phasized so  positively:  (Matt.  24:12,13)  "'Because  iniquity  shall 
abound,  the  love  of  many  shall  wax  cold,  but,  he  that  shall  endure  unto 
the  end,  the  same  shall  be  saved'." 

Thus  by  the  use  of  teacher-training  methods  this  plain  country 
gentleman  with  scripture  quotations  made  clear  to  us,  his  students,  the 
whole  plan  of  the  apostasy  and  the  modern  gospel  restoration. 

God  bless  our  teachers.  Bless  the  parents  who  by  study  and  prayer- 
ful jef forts  prepare  themselves  to  teach  their  children.  Bless  the  class 
teachers,  the  visiting  teachers,  and  those  who  teach  from  the  pulpit, 
that  all  may  by  resonable  effort,  and  the  inspiration  to  which  they  are 
entitled  become  effective  teachers  and  leaders  of  men,  I  humbly  pray, 
through  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Within  the  last  year  a  distinguished  citizen  of  this  country, 
prompted,  undoubtedly,  by  his  great  love  for  humanity,  offered  one 
hundred  thousand  dollars  as  a  prize  to  anyone  who  would  submit  a 
plan  that  would  produce  world  peace. 

THE  WORLD  AND  ITS  PEACE  PROBLEMS 

Since  that  offer  was  made,  I  have  thought  upon  it  many  times, 
and  have  asked,  What  have  we  to  do  with  a  proposition  of  that  char- 
acter? What  have  we  to  do  with  the  world  and  its  peace  problems? 
And  there  has  come  to  me  in  the  contemplation  of  this  subject  the 
burning  conviction  that  we  have  much  to  do  with  the  world  and  its 
affairs,  not  because  of  ambition  which  we  have  to  become  a  world 
power,  but  because  of  the  appointment  of  the  Lord  unto  this  people. 
We  cannot  separate  ourselves  from  the  world  and  its  affairs.  I  read 
from  the  first  section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  these 
words  from  the  Lord  himself,  to  the  Church : 

"Wherefore,  I  the  Lord,  knowing  the  calamity  which  should  come 
upon  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  called  upon  my  servant  Joseph  Smith, 
Jun.,  and  spake  unto  him  from  heaven,  and  gave  him  commandments; 

"And  also  gave  commandments  to  others,  that  they  should  proclaim 
these  things  unto  the  world;  and  all  this  that  it  might  be  fulfilled,  which 
was  written  by  the  prophets — 

"The  weak  things  of  the  world  shall  come,  forth  and  break  down  the 
mighty  and  strong  ones,  that  man  should  not  counsel  his  fellow  man, 
neither  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh — 

"But  that  every  man  might  speak  in  the  name  of  God  the  Lord,  even 
the  Savior  of  the  world; 

"That  faith  also  might  increase  in  the  earth; 

"That  mine  everlasting  covenant  might  be  established; 

"That  the  fulness  of  my  gospel  might  be  proclaimed  by  the  weak 
and  the  simple  unto  the  ends  of  the  world,  and  before  kings  and  rulers. 

"Behold,  I  am  God  and  have  spoken  it;  these  commandments  are  of 
me,  and  were  given  unto  my  servants  in  their  weakness,  after  the  manner 
of  their  language,  that  they  might  come  to  understanding." 

In  this  same  connection,  I  wish  to  read  a  few  verses  from  the 
133rd  section  of  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  beginning 
with  the  57th  verse : 

"And  for  this  cause,  that  men  might  be  made  partakers  of  the  glories 
which  were  to  he  revealed,  the  Lord  sent  forth  the  fulness  of  his  gospel, 
his   everlasting  covenant,   reasoning  in  plainness   and  simplicity- — ■ 

"To  prepare  the  weak  for  those  things  which  are  coming  on  the  earth, 
and  for  the  Lord's  errand  in  the  day  when  the  weak  shall  confound  the 
wise,  and  the  little  one  become  a  strong  nation,  and  two  shall  put  their 
tens  of  thousands  to  flight. 

"And  by  the  weak  things  of  the  earth  the  Lord  shall  thrash  the  na- 
tions by  the  pow«r  of  his  Spirit. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


145 


"And  for  this  cause  these  commandments  were  given;  they  were  com- 
manded to  be  kept  from  the  world  in  the  day  that  they  were  given,  but 
now  are  to  go  forth  unto  all  flesh — 

"And  this  according  to  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord,  who  ruleth 
over  all  flesh. 

"And  unto  him  that  repenteth  and  sanctifieth  himself  before  the  Lord 
shall  be  given  eternal  life. 

"And  upon  them  that  hearken  not  to  the  voice  of  the  Lord  shall 
be  fulfilled  that  which  was  written  by  the  prophet  Moses,  that  they  should 
be  cut  off  from  among  the  people. 

"And  also  that  which  was  written  by  the  prophet  Malachi:  For, 
behold,  the  day  cometh  that  shall  burn  as  an  oven,  and  all  the  proud, 
yea,  and  all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  stubble;  and  the  day  that  cometh 
shall  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall  leave  them 
neither  root  nor  branch. 

"Wherefore,  this  shall  be  the  answer  of  the  Lord  unto  them: 

"In  that  day  when  I  came  unto  mine  own,  no  man  among  you 
received  me,  and  you  were  driven  out. 

"When  I  called  again  there  was  none  of  you  to  answer;  yet  my 
arm  was  not  shortened  at  all  that  I  could  not  redeem,  neither  my  power 
to  deliver. 

"Behold,  at  my  rebuke  I  dry  up  the  sea.  I  make  the  rivers  a  wilder- 
ness; their  fish  stink,  and  die  for  thirst. 

"I  clothe  the  heavens  with  blackness,  and  make  sackcloth  their  cover- 
ing. 

"And  this  shall  ye  have  of  my  hand — ye  shall  lie  down  in  sorrow. 

"Behold,  and  lo,  there  are  none  to  deliver  you;  for  ye  obey  not 
my  voice  when  I  called  to  you  out  of  the  heavens;  ye  believed  not  my 
servants,  and  when  they  were  sent  unto  you  ye  received  them  not. 

"Wherefore,  they  sealed  up  the  testimony  and  bound  up  the  law,  and 
ye  were  delivered  over  unto  darkness." 

THREE  SPECIFIC  PURPOSES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

These  scriptures  leave  upon  the  Church  a  binding  obligation  to 
the  world.  Ninety-four  years  ago  today  there  came  into  existence  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  organized  for  three 
specific  purposes. 

PROCLAIMING  THE  GOSPEL  TO  THE  WORLD 

One  to  proclaim  to  the  world  the  restoration  of  the  everlasting 
gospel,  in  the  hour  of  God's  judgment,  referred  to  in  the  Scriptures 
quoted  by  the  brethren  today,  and  that  warning  was  also  to  be  ac- 
companied with  the  generous  offer  of  our  heavenly  Father  providing 
means  of  escape  for  all  men. 

THE  SALVATION  OF  THE  DEAD 

Another  great  obligation  that  is  upon  the  Church  is  to  provide, 
in  the  way  the  Lord  has  given,  through  his  holy  temples,  in  the 
exercise  of  the  authority  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  the  means,  the  way, 
whereby  even  those  who  are  dead  may  be  with  us  partakers  in  these 
glorious  blessings  vicariously  performed  for  and  in  their  behalf,  by 
men  in  the  flesh. 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PERFECTING  THE  LIVES  OF  MEMBERS 

Then  the  other  great  task  is  purifying  and  perfecting  the  lives 
o,:  the  members  of  the  Church,  and  building  them  up  in  preparation 
to  be  the  people  worthy  of  the  King  of  kings  when  he  shall  come. 

AS  TO  PROCLAIMING  THE  GOSPEL 

I  wish,  with  all  earnestness,  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  direct 
vour  attention  to  the  first  obligation,  the  obligation  of  carrying  the 
Gospel  to  the  world.  I  conceive  our  heavenly  Father  as  deeply  in- 
terested in  all  these,  his  children,  but  it  was  his  way  to  commune 
with  them  through  his  chosen  servant,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Knowing  the  calamity  which  was  to  come,  and  out  of  consideration 
for  his  children,  he  sent  the  warning  voice,  the  message  that  was 
to  be  delivered  by  the  angel  whom  John  saw  flying  through  the  midst 
of  heaven  with  the  everlasting  gospel  for  Earth's  children  crying: 
Repent,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand.  That  is  the  message 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  under  obligation 
to  carry  to  all  the  world.  And  as  I  have  observed,  the  Lord  gave, 
in  connection  with  this  warning,  the  fulness  of  the  Everlasting  Gos- 
pel, as  the  means  of  saving  the  world  from  the  perils  that  were  to 
come.  I  rejoice  that  so  far  as  this  obligation  is  concerned,  we  have 
been  performing  our  duty  acceptably,  I  believe,  before  the  Lord,  and 
yet  the  task,  is  not  completed.  We  have  acted  as  if  we  were  on 
serious  business.  We  have  not  been  indifferent  towards  the  world, 
nor  the  delivery  of  this  message.  We  believe  that  we  have  a  vital 
message  for  all  men.  We  know  it,  and  we  have  acted  as  men  who 
did  believe  it.  From  the  time  the  first  elders  of  the  Church  left 
their  homes  to  begin  this  task,  when  their  families  and  they  were 
outcasts,  when  chills  and  fever  were  raging,  the  men  themselves  were 
sick  and  had  to  be  lifted  up  into  the  wagon,  and  as  they  were  about 
to  leave  their  loved  ones,  who  were  sick  and  afflicted  and  sorrowing, 
abiding  in  poor  little  hovels,  temporary  quarters,  these  exiles,  gave 
three  cheers  for  Zion,  to  raise  their  drooping  spirits,  and  left,  making 
these  sacrifices,  to  cross  the  water  to  carry  this  message  to  the  peoples 
of  the  old  world,  which  the  Lord  has  required  of  the  Church.  There 
have  followed  in  their  wake  thousands  of  men  and  hundreds  of  women, 
and  never  a  dearth  of  missionaries.  We  have  never  seen  a  time  when 
we  could  not  supply,  generously,  those  needed  to  discharge  this  obliga- 
tion to  the  world. 

NOTHING  EVER  DETERRED  THE  ELDERS  FROM  THIS  DUTY 

In  the  time  when  gold  was  discovered  in  California,  and  the 
whole  world  was  interested  and  thousands  were  coming  westward 
to  seek  their  fortunes,  I  suppose  it  was  a  matter  of  great  surprise 
to  the  gold  seeker  to  meet  companies  of  "Mormon"  missionaries  going 
away  from  the  gold,  pushing  their  little  hand-carts,  with  their  few 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


147 


earthly  belongings,  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  peoples  of  the  old  world. 
There  has  never  been  anything  that  has  deterred  the  men  of  this  Church 
from  performing  this  sacred  obligation.  When  I  think  of  it,  however, 
and  recognize  the  fact  that  there  are  yet  nations  that  have  not  heard 
the  Gospel,  and  the  great  war  through  which  wc  have  passed  seems 
to  me  to  have  prepared  in  many  places  the  way  for  delivering  the 
message,  I  am  concerned  that  we  shall  fulfil  our  obligation  before 
the  Lord,  within  the  times  he  would  like  to  have  us  do  it;  and,  there- 
fore, we  are  calling  for  more  help.  Great  as  our  sacrifices  and  service 
have  been,  the  labor  is  not  yet  completed,  and  it  must  go  forward ;  we 
cannot  stop  now. 

MORE  EFFORT  ASKED  IN  THIS  LINE 

We  are  asking  that  there  shall  be  more  cooperation  on  the  part 
of  the  Church  members  in  helping  to  discharge  this  obligation.  It  is 
not  the  duty  and  task  of  the  man  who  happens  to  have  a  son,  to  pay 
his  way  and  to  bear  the  whole  burden.  Of  course  he  will  have  to  make 
a  sacrifice,  the  sacrifice  of  his  son's  time,  and  means  to  maintain 
him,  but  the  burden  of  keeping  these  representatives  in  the  field 
rests  upon  every  members  of  the  Church,  and  so  there  has  been  ap- 
portioned among  the  wards  a  certain  number  that  each  ward 
should  have  in  the  missionary  field,  and  it  is  every  man's 
duty,  in  the  ward,  to  see  that  his  representatives  are  in  the  field.  It 
ought  to  be  indeed  a  matter  of  regret,  and  I  was  going  to  say  shame 
to  any  ward  that  would  allow  the  representatives  from  that  ward  to 
come  home  because  perchance  their  parents  have  exhausted  their  means 
and  cannot  go  any  further.  The  wards  should  rally  to  the  help  of 
their  representatives  and  keep  them  in  the  missionary  field,  discharg- 
ing the  obligation  that  rests  upon  all  of  us. 

HOW  FUNDS  MAY  BE  OBTAINED  FOR  THIS  PURPOSE 

Again,  it  is  splendid  to  have  missionary  farewell  parties.  Some- 
times, however,  we  have  a  very  successful  missionary  party,  a  large 
sum  is  realized,  but  the  missionary  is  to  go  to  some  nearby  mission. 

Then  the  next  missionary  farewell  party  is  for  one  who  is  going 
to  South  Africa,  or  to  Germany  or  elsewhere  at  a  distance,  and  if  it 
happens  to  be  an  unfavorable  night,  a  small  amount  of  money  is  con- 
tributed, not  nearly  sufficient  to  take  him  to  his  field  of  labor.  We 
feel  that  the  practice  adopted  by  some  stakes  would  be  splendid  if  carried 
out  elsewhere.  Have  your  missionary  farewell  parties  contribute  liber- 
ally. Let  the  means,  however,  go  into  a  fund  in  the  ward  from  which 
the  fare  of  your  missionary  to  his  field  of  labor,  be  it  long  or  be  it 
short,  shall  be  paid,  as  the  Church  does  in  returning  them,  and  let 
that  fund  be  built  up  by  the  contributions  of  those  who  have  never 
performed  missionary  service.  There  are  men  who  could  not  go  be- 
cause of  their  own  business  affairs,  or  because  of  physical  disabilities. 
It  would  be  a  splendid  thing  for  every  such  man  to  give  five  dollars, 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ten  dollars,  fifteen  dollars,  or  twenty-five  dollars  or  more  a  month  for 
two  years  to  such  a  fund,  from  which  these,  our  representatives,  might 
be  sent  into  the  field  and  assist  those  in  need  to  remain;  for  there 
are  hundreds  of  young  men  in  the  Church  today  anxious  to  go,  but 
their  finances  will  not  enable  them  to  fully  take  care  of  themselves. 

THE  GOSPEL  THE  WORLD'S  HOPE 

By  a  united  effort  and  cooperative  spirit  we  may  continue  this 
work  acceptably  to  the  Church  and  before  the  Lord.  I  feci  earnest 
about  it  because  I  recognize  that  it  is  the  world's  hope.  I  recognize 
that  there  is  no  salvation  for  this  generation  except  through  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  recognize  that  the  Lord  has  re- 
quired it  at  our  hands,  and  that  it  has  to  be  done  and  done  speedily. 
The  time  may  not  be  so  definitely  fixed  that  we  know  exactly  how 
long  it  shall  be,  but  it  has  to  be  done  in  the  period  of  time  known  as 
the  "times  of  the  Gentiles."  It  will  not  last  forever ;  the  time  will 
come  when  the  Gentiles  will  close  their  doors  and  no  longer  wish 
the  elders  of  this  Church,  when  the  wheat  has  been  gathered.  I  expect 
to  see  that  time,  but  when  it  does  come  I  want  our  missionaries  to  be 
there  in  force,  as  a  witness  before  God  and  all  men  that  we  have 
acquitted  ourselves  honorably  and  acceptably  to  the  Lord,  and  that  we 
are  free  from  the  responsibility  that  has  been  upon  us,  and  that  the 
obligation  has  been  fully  discharged.  I  believe  that  our  heavenly 
Father  is  very  much  like  an  earthly  father  in  some  respects. 

HOW  CAN  THE  CHILDREN  OF  GOD  BE  SAVED ? 

What  can  an  earthly  father  do  to  save  his  disobedient  boy  or 
girl?  He  can  plead  with  him,  he  can  point  out  the  way  of  danger 
and  the  path  of  safety,  just  as  our  heavenly  Father,  seeing  the  course 
and  the  tendency  of  this  generation,  leading  towards  sorrow  and 
distress,  wonted  to  save  men,  and  he  gave  the  warning  and  the  way  to 
save  them.  So  an  earthly  father  can  plead  with  his  son  or  daughter, 
point  out  the  danger,  and  the  way  of  safety.  He  can  say :  "My 
boy,  the  course  you  are  taking  is  going  to  lead  you  to  bonds  and  im- 
prisonment, to  sorrow  and  to  distress.  Turn  away  from  it.  But,  here 
is  the  path  that  will  lead  you  to  happiness,  to  success,  to  virtue,  to 
prosperity.  Take  this  path,  rny  son."  When  a  father  has  done  that, 
he  has  nearly  reached  his  limit.  If  his  son  takes  the  wrong  course, 
wilfully  disobeying  his  father  and  mother,  that  father  cannot  save 
his  boy.  The  boy  comes  to  bonds  and  imprisonment,  as  many  are 
today  doing,  to  pay  the  penalty  of  their  transgressions,  with  their 
own  lives,  or  a  life  sentence.  There  are  those  who  would  give  their 
lives  to  save  these  boys,  but  they  cannot  veto  the  sentence,  they  cannot 
set  it  aside ;  the  law  must  have  its  way.  Our  heavenly  Father  can 
plead  with  his  sons  and  his  daughters,  to  abandon  the  course  they 
are  taking.  He  can  point  out  the  dangers,  and  he  has  always  done 
that,  whether  it  was  in  the  days  of  Noah  or  now,  it  has  been  the  same, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


149 


he  has  had  the  same  attitude  towards  his  children,  pointing  out  the 
danger,  pleading  with  them  to  turn  away  from  that  danger,  and  point- 
ing the  path  of  safety  and  of  success.  But  if  men  disregard  it,  even 
God  cannot  save  them,  because  he  is  limited.  He  must  himself  obey 
law.  He  cannot  save  his  sons  and  his  daughters,  only  inasmuch  as  they 
repent.  We  have  spoken  about  the  time  when  Satan  shall  be  bound, 
and  will  have  no  more  power  over  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men. 
How  will  he  be  bound?  When  all  men  turn  away  from  him  and  cease 
to  follow  after  him,  so  far  as  they  are  concerned,  he  will  be  bound. 
But  do  you  know  that  we  can  bind  the  Lord"  also  by  our  wickedness? 
By  our  own  rebellion,  we  tie  his  hands,  we  make  him  helpless  to  save  us, 
and  he  cannot  do  it  except  men  will  repent.  That  being  true,  recog- 
nizing that  the  children  of  men  are  in  peril  and  are  in  danger,  and  the 
only  hope — is  in  the  hands  of  this  people,  and  it  is  that  which  is 
known  as  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Ought  we  not  to  be 
active,  ought  we  not  to  be  anxious  to  bring  to  them  the  glad  news 
that  has  brought  us  peace  and  salvation? 

RESULTS  OF  THE  REJECTION  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  there  will  be,  following  the  rejection 
of  the  testimony  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  newf  witnesses  raised 
up  by  the  Lord — he  himself  has  spoken  of  it — they  shall  be  the 
thunder,  the  lightning,  the  earthquake,  the  perils  by  land  and  by  sea, 
famine,  plagues,  and  distress  that  shall  naturally  come.  As  you  sow, 
so  shall  you  reap.  We  do  not  want  to  have  the  world  reap  that  kind 
of  harvest.  I  have  no  delight  in  it,  for  I  love  the  souls  of  the  children 
of  men. 

OUR  OFFERING  TO  PREVENT  SUCH  RESULTS 

How  can  I  help  it  ?  Thirteen  years  of  my  life  have  been  .spent  in  the 
mission  field.  How  could  I  give  that  time  for  men  without  loving 
them  ?  I  do  love  them ;  yet  I  recognize  that  my  love  for  them  cannot 
save  them.  God's  love  for  them  cannot  save  them  except  they  repent. 
Jesus  himself,  with  all  the  love  he  had  for  the  children  of  men,  upon  the 
Mount  of  Olives,  wept  over  Jerusalem  and  said :  "Oh,  that  thou 
wouldst  have  received  the  message.  How  I  would  have  gathered  you 
as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens."  But  they  would  not.  So,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  speak  of  our  offering  to  the  world  with  some 
degree  of  pride.  If  one  hundred  thousand  dollars  has  been  offered 
by  one  of  our  distinguished  citizens  in  this  country  to  produce  a 
plan  for  world  peace,  we  have  offered  the  services  of  more  than  sixty 
thousand  missionaries,  and  I  have  estimated,  at  a  reasonable  figure, 
the  probable  value  of  their  time,  and  the  money  sent  to  them  in  the 
field  and  to  take  them  there  and  bring  them  back,  and  this  little  handful 
of  people  have  contributed,  to  bring  peace  to  the  world,  more  than 
two  hundred  millions  of  dollars  in  time,  service  and  money.    That  is 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


our  offering,  and  we  have  not  stopped  offering  yet.  We  are  on  serious 
business.  We  recognize  that  this  is  a  stupendous  task,  for  a  little 
handful  of  people  to  perform,  yet  we  have  given  our  time  and 
service  freely,  out  of  the  love  we  have  for  the  souls  of  the  children 
of  men. 

THE  GOSPEL  IS  THE  MESSAGE  OF  PEACE  TO  THE  WORLD 

But  we  know  as  we  know  that  we  live,  that  this  is  the  message  of 
peace  for  this  world.  Measures,  such  as  offered  in  the  plans  of  men  to 
bring  peace  to  the  world,  may  be  good,  they  are  undoubtedly  steps  to- 
ward the  end,  but  I  say  to  you,  there  is  no  plan  to  settle  the  world's 
troubles,  only  as  it  is  found  in  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ; 
and  when  men  receive  it  and  repent  and  are  baptized  and  come  under 
the  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  he  becomes  the  common  teacher 
of  all  men,  he  will  never  teach  them  to  go  to  war  with  one  another, 
but  he  will  soften  their  hearts,  take  hatred  out  of  their  souls,  and  the 
spirit  of  repentance  shall  come,  and  love  for  their  fellowmen  shall  abide. 
All  the  plans  of  men  cannot  duplicate  this  system  of  our  God. 

OUR  MISSION  TO  WIN  THE  WORLD  FOR  CHRIST 

I  have  no  fear  for  schism  and  division  of  this  Church,  over  the 
questions  on  doctrine  that  are  arising  in  other  churches.  Or  whether 
modernism  or  fundamentalism  shall  ever  be  a  question  among  us — 
fundamental  things  in  this  Church  have  clearly  been  established  from 
the  beginning.  And  we  have  continuous  revelation  that  will  settle 
all  such  questions.  We  are  founded  upon  the  truth,  that  God  lives,  a  real 
being,  our  Father,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son,  the  Only  Begotten 
in  the  flesh,  the  Firstborn  in  the  spirit,  the  literal  Son  of  God,  and 
the  only  Savior  of  mankind.  T  know  it  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live; 
you  know  it ;  and  we  are  to  tell  the  world  of  it  and  try  to  win  the  world 
for  Christ.  Oh,  that  we  could  tell  all  men !  Oh.  that  these  amplifiers  could 
carry  today  the  message  to  the  ears  of  all  flesh,  that  God  has  spoken, 
and  in  an  age  of  the  world's  dire  peril,  he  has  extended  his  helping 
hand  to  save  them,  and  if  they  will  but  repent  and  receive  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  they  shall  find  salvation  here  and  here- 
after. May  that  message  be  carried  forward  and  reach  all  flesh, 
and  blessing  and  honor  shall  be  upon  every  man  and  every  woman  who 
thus  contributes  to  this  noble  world  cause.  May  it  eventually  pre- 
vail, I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  general  authorities  and  the  general  officers  of  the 
Church,  all  of  whom  were  sustained  in  their  positions  and  callings  by 
the  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembly,  as  follows: 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


151 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  TFIE  COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the 
Presiding  Patriarch,  as  Prophet,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

FIRST   SEVEN   PRESIDENTS   OF  SEVENTY 

Seymour  B.  Young  Rulon  S.  Wells 

Brigham  H.  Roberts  Joseph  W.  McMurrin 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Levi  Edgar  Young 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust,  for  the  Church  of  Jes'n- 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Charles  W.  Penrose  David  O.  McKay 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 
Orson  F.  Whitney 

Arthur  Winter,  Sec.  and  Treas. 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


COMMISSIONERS  OF  EDUCATION 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Stephen  L.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

SUPERINTENDENT  OF  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

Adam  S.  Bennion 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  John  C.  Cutler  Peter  G.  Johnston 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor        Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor      Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Asst.  Organists 
John  J.  McClellan,  Organist  George  C.  Smith,  Sec.  and  Treas. 

And  all  the  members  of  the  Choir. 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Edward  H.  Anderson 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  will  announce  that  the  auditors  have  made  the  usual  report, 
and  reported  that  they  found  the  books  and  accounts,  and  everything 
in  the  Bishop's  Office  and  the  Trustee-in-Trust's  in  perfect  order. 

The  Church  Stenographer,  Brother  Frank  W.  Otterstrom,  handed 
me  the  following,  which  appeared  in  last  Sunday's  issue  of  the  New 
York  Times,  being  a  statement  made  in  1911  by  Dr.  Eliot,  President 
Emeritus  of  Harvard  University : 

"Hozv  to  live  long — Go  to  Church.  Keep  a  clean  heart  and  a  good  con- 
science. Give  your  mind  exercise  as  well  as  your  body — really  think.  Ex- 
ercise regularly,  eat  in  moderation,  take  a  full  allowance  of  sleep.  Avoid  in- 
dulgence in  luxuries  and  the  habitual  use  of  any  drug  whatsoever — not  only 
of  alcohol,  but  tobacco,  tea  and  coffee." 

In  1833,  the  Lord  told  us,  in  a  much  more  substantial  way  than 
President  Eliot,  to  refrain  from  all  those  things.  Among  other  things,, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  announce  that  Brother  George  Albert  Smith 
is  with  us  this  afternoon  oil  the  stand,  but  it  is  scarcely  considered 
wisdom  for  him  to  attempt  to  address  this  vast  congregation. 

FOR  THE  SUFFERERS  IN  EUROPE 

There  was  a  special  drive  made  during  the  past  season  for  the 
suffering  people  in  Europe;  and  in  addition,  there  was  a  drive  made 
for  clothes,  and  we  have  been  able  to  send  four  carloads  of  clothing 
to  Europe.  The  railroad  and  steamship  companies  have  furnished  us 
transportation  for  these  clothes,  practically  free  of  charge,  for  which 
we  are  grateful  indeed.  It  has  been  estimated  that  the  cash  received, 
$12,500  of  which  went  to  the  Near  East  organization,  and  the  clothing, 
would  amount,  in  round  numbers,  to  fully  $100,000.  Sixty  and  odd 
thousand  dollars  was  the  estimate  placed  upon  the  clothing  sent.  We 
have  received  word  from  our  European  missions  that  this  clothing  was 
very  good  indeed,  that  they  were  surprised  at  the  high  quality  of  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


153 


clothing  that  was  delivered.  There  were  extensive  repairs  made  on 
the  shoes  that  were  given,  which  made  them  very  much  more  acceptable. 
This  assistance  has  been  rendered  to  the  Netherlands  and  Germany, 
to  the  Armenians,  and  also  the  Near  East,  as  stated,  and  some  assist- 
ance also  to  Great  Britain. 

PROGRESS  AND  INCREASE  IN  MANY  CHURCH  ACTIVITIES 

There  has  been  a  substantial  increase  in  the  attendance  at  our 
sacrament  meetings  during  the  past  year.  There  has  been  better  ward- 
teaching  and  an  increase  in  the  number  of  families  visited  monthly ;  sta- 
tistics show  an  increase  in  our  tithes,  a  large  increase  in  the  number 
of  tithe-payers,  and  a  splendid  record  of  the  stake  and  ward  officers 
in  the  payment  of  tithes,  for  which  we  are  grateful. 

An  extensive  building  program  is  being  carried  out  in  many 
of  the  stakes  of  Zion.  New  meeting-houses  are  being  erected  and  the 
people  are  very  liberal  in  their  donations  for  the  same. 

In  the  conservation  of  life,  the  records  show  a  marked  decrease 
in  the  deaths  of  children  under  five  years  of  age,  showing  that  better 
methods  are  being  adopted  all  through  the  state  to  prevent  our  little 
ones  from  passing  away  in  their  infancy. 

For  the  first  time,  more  people  have  removed  to  the  missions 
of  the  Church  from  the  stakes  of  Zion  than  have  been  received  from 
the  missions.  A  splendid  work  is  being  done,  as  I  announced  here  at 
the  opening  of  our  conference,  by  the  missionaries  in  every  part  of 
the  world. 

It  is  estimated  that  there  have  been  1200  converts  to  the  Church 
as  a  result  of  our  home  missionary  work  in  the  various  stakes  of 
Zion. 

The  work  of  increasing  the  accomodations  in  the  Salt  Lake  temple 
has  been  completed,  and  has  proved  a. great  convenience  to  those  at- 
tending this  temple.  The  facilities  have  been  very  greately  enlarged 
and  are  highly  appreciated  by  those  who  are  working  in  that  temple. 

The  Manti  temple  has  been  thoroughly  overhauled  and  renovated. 

The  frame-work  of  the  Arizona  temple  is  now  completed  and  the 
terra-cotta  is  being  delivered.  The  building  is  to  be  covered  with 
terra-cotta — the  same  general  style  of  covering  as  the  Hotel  Utah. 
The  walls  will  be  completed  within  a  few  months. 

CONDITION  IN  THE  MISSIONS 

There  is  a  marked  improvement  in  the  conditions  for  missionary 
work  in  Great  Britain.  The  Netherlands  mission  is  very  prosperous, 
having  very  many  investigators.  A  French  mission  has  just  been 
created,  comprising  the  French  people  in  the  devastated  regions  of 
France,  the  French-speaking  people  of  Belgium,  and  the  French-speak- 
ing people  of  Switzerland. 

In  the  Scandinavian  missions  we  are  still  having  difficulty  in 
getting  people  into  Sweden.    I  regret  that  the  present  condition  is 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


altogether  different  from  what  it  was  in  the  clays  of  King  Oscar.  It 
fell  to  my  happy  lot,  with  Brother  Alex  Nibley,  whom  I  see  here, 
and  some  of  my  friends,  to  have  the  privilege  of  calling  on  King- 
Oscar  on  the  4th  day  of  July,  many  years  ago.  With  characteristic 
American  assurance,  I  presented  myself  at  the  king's  palace  and  re- 
quested an  interview  and  the  man  who  came  to  the  door  looked 
at  me  as  if  he  thought  I  was  crazy,  not  to  be  properly  pre- 
sented through  the  minister  plenipotentiary.  I  wrote  a  letter  of  intro- 
duction to  his  majesty  and  enclosed  a  letter  from  Governor  Heber 
M.  Wells  of  the  state  of  Utah,  told  him  that  day,  July  4th,  was  the 
day  that  we  Americans  celebrate,  and  asked  for  an  audience ;  and  added 
that  I  knew  that  I  ought  to  be  presented  in  proper  order,  that  I  had 
letters  from  the  Utah  senators  to  our  minister ;  but,  the  day  being 
the  4th  of  July,  we  hoped  that  he  would  waive  all  of  the  customary 
formalities  necessary  to  ,see  a  king.  And  he  very  kindly  consented, 
stepped  out  of  the  palace,  and  greeted  us  ;  and  after  learning  that  only 
two  or  three  in  our  party  understood  the  Swedish  language,  he  im- 
mediately changed  to  faultless  English,  perfect  English.  He  was  a 
magnificent  specimen  of  humanity,  standing  over  six  feet  high.  lie 
made  this  remark  to  me :  "Mr.  Grant,  I  have  sent  my  personal  rep- 
resentatives, unknown  to  the  people,  to  nearly  every  state  in  the 
Union  of  the  United  States,  to  find  out  how  my  former  subjects  are 
getting  along,  how  they  are  prospering;  and  in  no  other  state  in 
the  Union  are  the  former  subjects  of  Sweden  and  Norway  more  con- 
tented, more  prosperous  and  happier  than  in  Utah ;  and,  as  long  as 
I  am  king  of  Norway  and  Sweden,  your  people  shall  have  religious 
liberty,  notwithstanding  all  the  priests  and  religious  denominations 
are  against  you."    I  wish  he  was  still  alive. 

An  extensive  building  program  is  now  in  operation  in  many  of 
the  missions  of  the  United  States.  Meeting  houses  of  a  substantial 
character  have  been  erected  in  some  of  the  missions — in  far  off  New 
Zealand,  in  Australia,  and  in  some  other  places.  We  are  grateful 
for  the  very  excellent  progress  that  we  are  making  all  over  the  world 
in  our  missionary  work. 

WORK  OF  THE  M.  I.  A.  SCOUTS 

Some  remarks  have  been  made  here,  telling  of  the  good  opinion 
that  people  have  of  us  today,  in  comparison  with  what  it  used  to  be. 
It  fell  to  my  lot  to  be  at  a  Boy  Scout  gathering  at  the  West-side 
High  school,  where  representatives  from  this  section  of  the  country 
were  present.  President  Moore,  the  head  of  the  great  World's  Fair 
at  San  Francisco,  was  one  of  these  men,  Stewart  French  was  another, 
and  other  influential  national  representatives  were  there.  One  of  the 
men  present  upon  that  occasion  was  George  J.  Fisher,  who  is  the 
second  in  command  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of  America.  The  man  in  charge, 
the  head  man,  Mr.  West,  was  with  us  in  this  building  about  a  year 
ago.  and  he  delivered  a  magnificent  address  and  paid  splendid  com- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


155 


pliments  to  our  people.  lie  remarked  to  me  that  it  was  a  great  pleasure 
to  him  to  have  nominated  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  to  have  charge  of  the 
Boy  Scouts  who  went  to  Europe — a  great  compliment,  I  feel  to  the 
American  people.  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  has  received  a  letter  from  Dr. 
George  J.  Fisher,  which  I  think  every  Latter-day  Saint  would  like  to 
hear  read.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  ought  to  have  read  it,  because, 
in  every  Latter-day  Saint  home  there  ought  to  be  the  Improvement 
Era.  But,  for  fear  there  is  not  one  in  every  home  of  those  who  are 
here,  I  will  read  this  from  the  March  number  of  the  Improvement 
Era : 

"Tt  was  my  pleasure  recently  to  meet  the  representatives  of  the  Boy 
Scout  movement  in  Utah  and  to  observe  Scouting  in  action. 

"I  was  deeply  impressed  not  only  with  the  extent  to  which  the  boys  of 
Utah  had  been  reached,  but  with  the  quality  of  the  program  of  Scouting  which 
was  being  conducted. 

"Utah  excels  in  Scouting.  Tn  Salt  Lake  City  and  in  Logan,  the  head- 
quarters of  two  Councils  of  the  State,  I  witnessed  actual  demonstrations  by  the 
boys  themselves. 

"I  was  profoundly  moved  and  greatly  inspired  by  what  T  saw.  Utah  excels 
in  the  number  of  boys  reached  in  proportion  to  the  population.  In  many  com- 
munities practically  all  of  the  boys  available  are  scouts.  There  are  more  boys 
of  advanced  rank  and  a  greater  percentage  of  Eagle  scouts  than  in  any  other 
section  of  America. 

"Scouting  reaches  the  boys  not  only  in  the  large  centers  of  the  state,  but 
in  the  remotest  villages. 

"So  well  is  scouting  administered  that  the  boys  themselves  manage  much 
of  their  activities  under  wise  adult  guidance. 

"I  saw  a  great  rally  directed  entirely  by  scouts  in  Salt  Lake  City.  The 
dispatch,  precision,  efficiency  and  spirit  with  which  they  conducted  the  affair 
was  worthv  of  high  praise.    I  have  never  seen  it  excelled. 

"Scouting  is  raising  up  a  fine  breed  of  boys  in  Utah.  Tt  is  giving  them 
splendid  executive  training  that  will  fit  them  for  effective  leadership  in  the 
affairs  of  state  in  the  years  immediately  ahead. 

"Scouting  is  a  course  in  the  practice  of  patriotism.  Tt  is  developing 
patriots  in  Utah,  yes.  boys  who  will  be  felt  in  the  public  and  private  life  of 
the  nation. 

"That  state  is  a  great  state  which  gives  to  its  youth  its  first  attention. 
Utah  excels  in  that  regard. 

"The  secret  of  it  all  is  that  splendid,  high  motived  men  are  giving 
themselves  unselfishly  to  the  boys  of  the  state.  This  is  the  way  to  success 
and  real  achievement. 

"These  men  are  taking  serious  training  for  their  tasks.  I  associated 
for  part  of  two  days  with  almost  a  hundred  of  them  in  training  at  the  State 
Agricultural  College  at  Logan.  They  came  from  the  remotest  parts  of 
the  state  and  of  nearby  states.    Tt  was  an  inspiration. 

"These  men  will  determine  the  standards  of  boy  life  in  the  state.  It 
is  a  noble  enterprise,  a  worthy  and  commendable  service.  All  praise  to 
them. 

.  "These  scouts  in  the  stat^  are  catching  and  demonstrating  the  spirit 
of  Scouting.  It  is  a  great  spiritual  crusade.  They  are  living  the  Scout 
Oath  and  Laws.    They  are  practicing  the  'daily  good  turn.' 

"Scouting  is  reaching  all  boys:  poor  boys  as  well  as  those  who  are  more 
favored.  Utah  is  setting  standards  for  the  whole  country.  Utah  is  repeat- 
ing historv.  Just  as  she  developed  the  early  scouts,  the  great  heroes  of 
pioneer  days,  so  now  she  is  raising  up  boy  scouts,  caught  by  the  same 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


spirit  of  enterprise,  by  the  same  spirit  of  adv.enture.  It  is  the  pioneer  spirit, 
the  holy  crusade  of  olden  days  applied  in  practical,  yet  romantic  fashion 
to  the  youth  of  this  later  age. 

"The  'Mormon'  Church  is  the  large.st  factor  in  this  splendid  achievement. 
She  it  is  that  is  furnishing  men  and  vision  and  ideals  to  the  young  men 
throughout  the  state,  and  they  as  scoutmasters  in  the  great  majority  are 
inspiring  the  youth  of  the  state  to  become  good  scouts.  Splendid  co- 
operation is  given  by  other  religious  agencies  in  this  work. 

"And  for  this  good  service  we  are  deeply  grateful.  Scouting  is  marching 
on  in  Utah,  an  excellent  example  to  all  the  nation." 

PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG'S  ADMONITION  SEVENTY-ONE  YEARS  AGO 

APPLIES  TODAY 

October  6  to  9,  1853:  Words  of  President  Brigham  Young: 

"We  will  now  bring  our  conference  to  a  close.  I  wish  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  hearken  to  the  counsel  they  receive  from  time  to  time, 
and  especially  to  the  counsel  I  will  now  give  to  all  Latter-day  Saints  in 
this  house,  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and  to  all  who  are  scattered 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  ask  one  thing  at  your  hands,  and  that  is, 
to  live  your  religion  day  by  day. 

"The  religion  we  profess  is  the  religion  of  the  Lord  J.esus  Christ;  a  religion 
of  revelation,  ministering  of  angels,  and  tire  power  of  God  on  the  people  through 
ithe  ordinances  of  God.  My  counsel  is,  to  live  their  religion.  If  they  do,  they 
will  live  watchfully,  prayerfully,  humbly;  and  their  hearts  will  be  filled  with 
compassion  one  towards  another,  and  they  will  seek  to  do  good  all  the  days 
of  their  lives ;  and  when  an  evil  is  presented  to  them  they  will  shun  that  evil, 
and  will  cleave  to  that  which  is  right  before  the  Lord ;  otherwise  they  will 
brinp-  disgrace  upon  themselves,  and  dishonor  their  religion.  This  is  my  counsel 
to  all  Saints,  and  I  wish  you  to  carry  it  from  this  conference  to  your  neigh- 
bors, and  spread  it.  abroad,  throughout  all  the  churches  of  the  Saints,  upon 
the  face  of  the  whole  earth; — Live  the  religion  you  profess!" 

Brother  Junius  F.  Wells  was  indexing  some  of  the  Journals  of 
Discourses  and  ran  across  the  above  and  handed  it  to  me ;  and  I  felt 
I  would  like  to  read  it  here. 

THE  SUGAR  INDUSTRY 

I  am  very  happy  to  inform  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  there  has 
been  a  very  wonderful  and  remarkable  "come-back"  in  the  sugar  in- 
dustry of  this  inter-mountain  country.  Instead  of  the  various  sugar 
factories  being  in  debt  many,  many  millions  of  dollars  of  money  to 
the  banks  in  New  York  and  Chicago,  with  large  stocks  of  .sugar  on 
hand  and  no  sale  for  it,  there  is  now  a  demand  for  sugar  through- 
out the  entire  country ;  and  almost  without  exception,  if  not  without 
exception,  (I  am  not  thoroughly  posted)  the  companies  are  not  in 
debt  to  bankers  who  were  unwilling  three  years  ago,  without  ad- 
ditional capital  being  invested,  to  renew  obligations  that  they  held. 
Today,  most  if  not  all  of  the  companies  are  free  from  bank  obliga- 
tions in  the  East  and  the  industry  has  come  back  in  a  splendid  way ; 
for  which  we  are  grateful.  The  farmers  are  giving  loyal  support  and 
raising  larger  quantities  of  beets,  which  means  an  increased  product, 
which  means  an  increase  of  prosperity  to  this  intermountain  country. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


157 


GIVE  LOYAL  SUPPORT  TO  HOME  INSTITUTIONS 

From  my  earliest  recollection,  I  have  heard  Brigham  Young  and 
all  of  his  successors  preach  to  the  people  and  beg  them  to  support  and 
sustain  all  of  the  various  industries  that  were  established  throughout 
this  inter-mountain  country ;  and  I  appeal  to  the  Latter-day  Saints 
today,  to  all  who  are  here  present,  to  carry  the  message  to  the  people 
throughout  the  entire  Church — to  support  the  institutions  of  our  state, 
to  be  loyal  to  those  institutions  through  which  employment  can  be 
given  to  the  people,  and  from  which  you  can  secure  articles  that  are 
manufactured  here  at  home.  Give  them  the  preference ;  help  to  build 
up  our  country ;  sustain  this  inter-mountain  country.  We  need  sup- 
port for  everything  that  is  started  in  the  nature  of  a  manufacturing 
institution  in  this  country.  We  are  so  far  away  from  the  centers  of 
consumption  for  many  of  our  products  that  railroad  freight  charges 
prevent  us  exporting  many  goods  which,  but  for  the  long  distance  to 
the  markets,  we  could  do.  Therefore,  let  us  be  loyal  to  our  institutions 
here  at  home. 

BUILDING  OF  THE  ARIZONA  TEMPLE  PROGRESSING 

I  am  pleased  to  inform  you  that  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot,  during 
the  past  six  months,  to  visit  Arizona  and  to  see  the  progress  that  is 
jbeing  made  there  upon  our  temple;  and  I  am  sure  that  when  that 
building  is  completed  we  shall  all  be  proud  of  it.  I  am  sure  that  it 
will  be  one  more  monument  testifying  to  the  faith  and  the  loyalty  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  to  the  message  that 
has  come  to  us  in  our  day — to  labor  for  the  redemption  of  our  dead. 
'1  am  sure  that  it  will  be  a  credit  to  our  people  that  will  be  recognized 
hy  those  not  of  our  faith,  in  seeing  one  more  splendid  monument  of 
the  kind  and  this  in  the  state  of  Arizona. 

INCREASED   TESTIMONY   AND   FRESH    INSPIRATION    FROM    READING  THE 

BOOK  OF  MORMON 

I  have  rejoiced  during  the  past  six  or  seven  weeks  in  reading 
carefully  through,  at  the  rate  of  about  ten  pages  a  day,  with  a  prayerful 
heart,  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  do  not  think  that  I  have  ever  before  en- 
joyed that  book  so  much.  I  do  not  think  the  wonderful  testimonies  con- 
tained in  it  regarding  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior,  have  ever 
made  a  more  profound  impression  upon  my  heart  and  soul  than  they 
have  made  this  last  time  that  I  have  read  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
remember,  and  have  often  spoken  of  the  fact  of  reading  it  in  my 
youthful  days,  and  how  there  came  into  my  heart  an  abiding  testi- 
mony that  that  book  was  true,  that  it  was  in  very  deed  exactly  what 
it  purports  to  be — the  .sacred  history  of  the  forefathers  of  the 
American  Indian.  I  could  not  as  a  child  or  as  a  young  man,  com- 
prehend and  understand  as  fully  as  today  the  splendid  discourses 
regarding  the  divine  mission  of  the  Savior.  His  wonderful  teachings 
to  the  people  upon  this  continent,  the  wonderful  inspired  teachings 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  Alma  and  Abinadi  and  many  others,  as  contained  in  that  book. 
But  I  am  thankful  beyond  .expression  that  I  did  read  the  book  in 
my  boyhood  days  and  that  the  assurance  came  into  my  heart  that  it  was 
in  very  deed  the  truth,  and  that  I  fell  in  love  with  the  character 
of  Nephi.  More  than  any  other  mortal  man  that  we  have  any  record 
of  in  the  Bible,  the  Old,  or  the  New  Testaments,  or  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  more,  I  believe,  than- the  influence  of  my  friends  and  as- 
sociates with  whom  I  have  lived,  Nephi  has  made  an  impression  upon 
my  heart  and  my  soul  and  has  been  one  of  the  guiding  stars  of 
my  life — a  man  who  endeavored  upon  all  occasions  never  to  become 
discouraged  or  disheartened,  never  to  complain ;  but  who  endeavored 
to  the  full  extent  of  his  ability  to  carry  out  his  own  wonderful  words 
spoken  to  his  father — 

"I  will  go  and  do  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded, 
for  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments  unto  the  children 
of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may  accomplish 
the  thing  which  he  commanded  them." 

That  remarkable  declaration,  exemplified  through  his  entire  life, 
has  stayed  with  me,  I  am  sure,  now  for  fully  fifty  long  years ;  and 
I  rejoice  in  the  fact  of  the  impression  that  was  made  upon  my  heart 
and  soul  by  that  statement.  I  also  rejoice  in  his  immediately  ex- 
emplifying the  .statement  that  he  would  do  what  the  Lord  required. 
What  had  the  Lord  required?  The  Lord,  through  Lehi,  his  father, 
had  received  a  dream  to  the  effect  that  his  sons  were  to  return  to 
Jerusalem  and  secure  the  brass  plates  upon  which  some  of  the  ancient 
scriptures  and  the  genealogy  of  tbe  forefathers  of  Nephi  were  recorded. 
And  his  brethren  were  complaining,  when  he  made  that  impressive 
announcement  that  he  would  go  and  do  the  thing  which  the  Lord  had 
required. 

They  made  a  failure  of  their  first  attempt,  and  his  brothers  de- 
sired to  return  to  their  father  in  the  wilderness,  but  Nephi  said : 

"We  will  not  go  down  unto  our  father  in  the  wilderness  until  we  have 
accomplished  the  thing  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  us." 

And  they  went  up  again  to  Jerusalem,  and  they  gathered  their 
riches  and  they  offered  them  to  Laban  for  the  record.  Instead  of 
making  the  exchange,  Lallan  sent  his  servants  to  kill  them,  and  he 
stole  their  wealth.  Nephi's  brothers  then  commenced  beating  him, 
and  an  angel  of  the  Lord  appeared  and  told  them  to  go  up  again 
unto  Jerusalem  and  the  Lord  would  deliver  Laban  into  their  hands, 
and  they  would  obtain  the  plates. 

No  sooner  had  the  angel  disappeared  than  these  men,  lacking  in 
faith — and  men  that  do  not  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  are 
always  lacking  in  faith  and  always  will  be  lacking  in  faith,  and  always 
will  find  fault ;  and  those  who  are  perpetually  .seeking  for  some  great 
and  wonderful  manifestation  will  never  amount  to  very  much  in  the 
Church ;  while  those  who  keep  the  commandments  of  God  never  find 
fault,  they  have  faith,  they  believe — these  brothers  of  Nephi  said : 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


159 


"How  is  it  possible  that  the  Lord  will  deliver  Laban  into  our  hands? 
Behold  he  is  a  mighy  man,  and  he  can  command  fifty,  yea,  even  he 
can  slay  fifty;  then  why  not  us?"  And  the  answer  of  Nephi  was: 
"Let  us  be  faithful  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord ;  for 
behold  he  is  mightier  than  all  the  earth,  then  why  not  mightier  than 
Laban  and  his  fifty,  yea,  or  even  than  his  tens  of  thousands?" 

Many  men  say :  "If  I  could  only  see  an  angel,  if  I  could  only 
hear  an  angel  proclaim  something,  that  would  cause  me  to  be  faith- 
ful all  the  days  of  my  life!"  It  had  no  effect  upon  these  men  that  were 
not  serving  the  Lord,  and  it  would  have  no  effect  today. 

As  I  say,  I  rejoice  in  the  increased  testimony  that  has  come 
into  my  heart  and  soul  regarding  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
in  the  reading  that  I  have  just  completed  while  on  my  recent  trip  to 
the  south. 

THE  TERRIBLE  CATASTROPHE  AT  CASTLE  GATE 

We  have  had  one  of  the  most  terrible  caiastrophies  in  the  history 
of  the  state  of  Utah,  on  which  occasion  one  hundred  seventy-three, 
as  I  remember  it,  lives  were  lost  in  the  Castle  Gate  coal  mine  explosion. 
It  fell  to  my  lot,  with  Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman  and  others,  to  visit 
Castle  Gate  and  to  see  the  effects  of  that  terrible  calamity  there.  The 
Governor  of  the  state  and  others  have  inaugurated  a  drive  for  the 
benefit  of  the  families  that  have  been  left  destitute  of  a  provider.  I 
hope  and  pray  that  in  every  hamlet,  and  in  every  home  there  will  be 
a  disposition  to  contribute  something  toward  this  great  drive  for  the 
benefit  of  the  families  of  the  men  who  were  killed  in  that  great  dis- 
aster. There  is  nothing  truer  than  the  statement  in  ancient  writ  that 
"It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive,"  and  I  say  that  the  greater 
blessing  will  come  to  those  who  give  than  to  those  who  are  not  willing 
to  give  in  this  case.  Let  us  do  our  part,  as  we  have  ever  done  our 
part  in  all  of  the  various  calls  that  have  been  made  by  our  nation 
in  times  of  trouble  and  by  those  in  distress.  I  am  sure  that  the  ap- 
peal will  not  be  made  in  vain.  The  Church  has  been  solicited  to  assist 
and  we  have  contributed  $2,500  of  the  tithing  funds  for  this  purpose, 
which  was  somewhat  more  than  the  request  made  by  the  chairman  who 
called  upon  us. 

THE  SAINTS  LOVE  THE  GOSPEL,  AS  WITNESS  THE  CONFERENCE 
ATTENDANCE 

I  have  been  very  pleased  indeed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
the  wonderful  attendance  at  our  conference.  We  have  never  had 
anything  like  it  within  my  recollection,  nothing  to  compare  with  the 
wonderful  outpouring  of  the  people  at  these  conference  meetings.  To 
have  our  week-day  meetings  so  crowded  in  this  tabernacle  that  many 
have  had  to  stand  up  is  a  new  experience,  and  it  shows  to  me  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  awake,  that  they  are  alive,  that  they  have 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  love  of  the  gospel,  that  they  are  anxious  to  come  here  to  par- 
take of  the  spirit  of  our  conferences,  that  spirit  which  has  been  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  this  building,  from  the  very  day  it  was  first 
opened.  It  has  fallen  to  my  lot,  from  my  childhood  days  until  now, 
excepting  when  I  have  been  absent  from  the  state  upon  foreign  mis- 
sions, to  attend  conferences  in  this  building  twice  a  year,  and  I  have 
never  come  into  this  building  and  been  disappointed;  I  have  never 
come  here  but  what  I  have  been  benefited  and  fed  with  the  bread 
of  life  and  built  up  in  the  faith,  and  strengthened  in  my  knowledge 
and  testimony  regarding  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  as 
Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged. 

PRAYER  FOR  THE  PRESIDENT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  the  President  of  the  United  States 
of  America  and  his  cabinet,  and  that  he  will  vindicate  the  President 
and  every  honest  member  of  his  cabinet;  and  I  believe  that  there  are 
honest,  upright,  God-fearing,  patriotic  men  in  the  cabinet  of  President 
Coolidge.  I  believe  he  is  a  man  worthy  of  the  blessings  of  Almighty 
God.  That  is  my  opinion  of  the  President  of  the  United  States.  I 
believe  that  he  has  the  welfare  of  the  people  of  this  great  country  at 
heart. 

BLESSINGS  ON  ALL  ISRAEL,  AT  HOME  AND  ABROAD 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  each  and  everyone  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  throughout  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  from  Canada  on  the  north 
to  Mexico  on  the  south.  I  pray  that  he  will  bless  the  Saints  all 
over  the  wide  world,  in  all  the  different  missions,  that  they  may 
grow  and  increase  in  the  light  and  the  knowledge  and  the  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  bear  my  witness  to  you  here  today  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God,  and 
that  each  man,  woman  and  child  who  lives  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  shall  find  life  eternal  in  the  presence  of  our  heavenly  Father. 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  abide  with  all  Israel,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "Then  shall  your  light  shine." 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  of- 
fered the  benediction,  and  the  conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing,  assisted  by 
Professor  B.  Cecil  Gates.  Edward  P.  Kimball  played  the  accompani- 
ments, interludes,  etc.  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Tracy  Y.  Can- 
non.   Professor  J.  J.  McClellan  was  absent  on  account  of  illness. 

Stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  taber- 
nacle by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Joseph  Anderson ;  and 
in  the  assembly  hall  by  Frederick  E.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  clerk  of  the  conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities  of  the  Church  General  151 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  144 

The  World  and  Its  Peace  Problems,  144 — Three  Specific  Pur- 
poses of  the  Church,  145 — Proclaiming  the  Gospel  to  the  World, 
14S — The  Salvation  of  the  Dead,  145 — Perfecting  the  Lives  of 
Members,  146 — As  to  Proclaiming  the  Gospel,  146 — Nothing  Ever 
Deterred  the  Elders  from  This  Duty,  146 — More  Effort  Asked  in 
This  Line,  147— How  Funds  May  Be  Obtained  For  This  Pur- 
pose, 147 — The  Gospel  the  World's  Hope,  148 — How  Can  the 
Children  of  God  be  Saved?  148 — Results  of  the  Rejection  of  the 
Gospel,  149— Our  Offering  to  Prevent  Such  Results,  149 — The 
Gospel  Is  the  Message  of  Peace  to  the  World,  150 — Our  Mis- 
sion to  Win  the  World  for  Christ,  150. 


Beckstrand,  Elder  John  A  123 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O   .104 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   19 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   25 


How  Shall  We  Obtain  Life  Eternal?  25— Through  the  Gift  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  26— No  Baptism  Complete  Without  This  Gift, 
26 — Fundamentalism  and  Modernism,  26 — The  Scripture  Plain 
on  the  Points  of  Controversy,  28— The  Birth  of  Christ,  28— The 
Resurrection  of  the  Christ,  28 — The  United  Faith  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  29 — Personal  Testimony,  29. 


Elison,  Elder  John  A  120 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  151 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  1,  151 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


The  Church  in  Excellent  Condition,  2 — Good  Work  by  the  Aux- 
iliary Organizations,  2 — Satisfactory  Reports  from  the  Missions, 

3 —  Enlightening  Statistics,  3 — Text  for  an  Important  Subject, 

4 —  The  Appearance  of  Elijah,  5 — Keys  to  Gathering  of  Israel 
Restored,  6 — Visitation  of  Elijah  in  Fulfilment  of  Malachi's 
Prediction,  6 — The  Faith  of  the  Saints  Verified  by  Temples  and 
Works  Therein,  6 — An  Awakening  on  This  Subject  in  All  the 
World,  7 — Interest  in  Work  for  the  Dead  Increasing,  7 — We 
Are  Engaged  in  the  Marvelous  Work  of  the  Lord,  7 — The  Great 
Purpose  of  Our  Labors  Declared,  8 — The  Responsibility  of  Par- 
ents, 9 — The  Sacred  Duty  of  Communion  With  God  Through 
Prayer,  9 — Take  to  Heart  the  Duty  of  Teaching  Faith  in  Jesus 
Christ,  10. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J.  150 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  151 — General  Officers  of  the 
Church,  151. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  152 

For  the  Sufferers  in  Europe,  152 — Progress  and  Increase  in 


Many  Church  Activities,  153 — Condition  in  the  Missions,  153 — 
Work  of  the  M.  I.  A.  Scouts,  154 — President  Brigham  Young's 
Admonition  Seventy-One  Years  Ago  Applies  Today,  156 — The 
Sugar  Industry,  156 — Give  Loyal  Support  to  Home  Institutions, 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


157— Building-  of  the  Arizona  Temple  Progressing,  1.57— In- 
creasted  Testimony  and  Fresh  Inspiration  from  Reading  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  157— The  Terrible  Catastrophe  at  Castle  Gate, 

159—  The  Saints  Love  the  Gospel,  as  Witness  the  Conference 
Attendance,  159— Prayer  for  the  President  of  the  United  States, 

160 —  Blessings  on  All  Israel,  at  Home  and  Abroad,  160. 


Hart,  Elder  Charles  H   53 

Hyde,  Elder  George  T  125 

Hyde,  Elder  William  A   98 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   81 


The  Multitude  Compared  with  an  Ancient  Gathering,  81 — Pro- 
ceedings of  a  Character  to  Stimulate  Faith,  82 — Authority  Con- 
ferred upon  the  Apostles,  82— Like  Authority  Conferred  upon  the 
Twelve  in  Our  Day,  82— The  Ordinance  of  Baptism,  83— To  Be 
in  Possession  of  the  Spirit  of  God  We  Must  Pray,  83— Humility 
Should  Characterize  Our  Conduct,  84 — Good  Will  and  Forgive- 
ness Fundamental,  84 — Exercise  Charity  Without  Ostentation, 
84 — Seek  Wisdom  and  Not  Wealth,  85 — Be  Slow  to  Render  Judg- 
ment and  Criticism,  8,5 — Fast  With  Cheerful  Countenance,  85 
— Honor  Marriage;  Be  Chaste  and  Virtuous,  86 — Why  These 
Simple  Doctrines  Should  be  Implicitly  Observed,  86 — Warning 
Against  Becoming  Like  the  Pharisees  of  Old,  86 — Remember 
These  Simple,  Fundamental  Doctrines,  87. 


Jenson.  Elder  Andrew   129 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   69 

Knight,  Elder  John  M   24 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R  139 


Appeal  for  Greater  Interest  in  Learning  How  to  Lead  and  Teach 
the  Young,  139 — Example  of  a  Farmer  Who,  Having  the  Priest- 
hood, Was  a  Great  Teacher,  139 — The  Great  Apostasy  Predicted. 
140 — The  Apostasy  to  be  Universal,  140 — Good  Cheer  For  Those 
Who  Endure  to  the  End,  140 — Conditions  in  the  Last  Days — 
The  Boasting  of  Some  Who  Learn  a  Little  Science,  141 — The 
Thrilling  Dream,  141 — The  God  of  Heaven  to  Set  Up  a  King- 
dom That  Shall  Never  Be  Destroyed — To  Stand  Forever,  142 
— The  Temple  an  Expression  of  the  Faith  of  the  People  in  the 
Message  of  the  Angel,  142 — Where  Is  the  Kingdom  to  be  Built 
That  Shall  Last  Forever?— War  to  Cease,  143— The  Great 
Teacher,  A  Farmer,  But  a  Man  of  God.  143. 


McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   57 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W   45 

Paul,  Elder  Joshua  H  109 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W   10 


The  Preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  the  Nations,  10 — The  Coming  of 
the  Prince  of  Peace,  11 — We  are  Plere  to  Serve  the  Lord,  11 
— Blessings  Predicated  Upon  Serving  the  Lord,  12 — The  Length 
of  a  Generation,  13 — No  Date  Set  for  the  Coming  of  the  Lord, 
14 — Let  Us  Perform  Our  Duty  and  the  Blessings  Are  Sure, 
14 — A  Reminiscence  and  a  Testimony,  15 — Hang  On  and  Keep 
Fast  Hold  of  the  Truth,  16— God  Be  With  You,  16— This  Work 
Onward  and  Upward  Forever,  17. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   90 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph  Jr   71 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   30 

Conditions  Made  Known  by  Statistics,  30 — Large  Number  of 


INDEX 


163 


Unmarried  in  the  Church,  30 — Why  is  This  Condition?  31 — 
Forbidding  to  Marry,  a  Doctrine  of  Devils,  31 — Exemplars  to 
the  World,  31 — Two  kinds  of  Marriages — Authority,  32 — Mar- 
riage for  Eternity,  33 — -Temple  and  Civil  Marri.  pes  in  the  Church 
Contrasted,  33 — People  of  One  Religious  Faith  Should  Marry, 
33— We  Want  Our  People  to  Marry,  34. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L,   92 

A  Message  to  the  Youth  of  Zion,  92 — The  Great  Obligation  of 
Parents,  92 — -Unusual  Educational  Environment  Influences  the 
Youth,  92 — An  Appeal  to  Parents  in  Behalf  of  the  Young  Folks, 
93 — Visions  of  Wonderful  Opportunity  of  the  Home,  94 — The 
Gospel  a  Constructive  Program,  94 — Oh,  That  Boys  and  Girls 
Might  Know  Jesus  Christ,  95. 

Roberts,  Elder  B.  H   76 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   21 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   40 

We  Stand  As  Witnesses  for  Christ,  40 — -Testimony  of  An  Ancient 
Prophet,  40 — Views  of  the  So-Called  Modernists,  41 — True 
Christianity,  41 — Our  Message  to  the  World,  42 — We  Believe 
in  a  Literal  Resurrection,  42 — Modern  Testimony  of  the  Resur- 
rection, 44. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G   87 

Snow,  Elder  Edward  H  118 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E.   65 

Not  Connected  Up — A  Comparison,  65 — Institutions  of  Men, 
65 — Beware  of  Forms  Without  Power,  65 — The  Gospel  Given 
By  Revelation  of  Jesus  Christ,  66 — Preaching  for  Doctrine  the 
Commandments  of  Men,  67 — The  Sin  of  Preaching  Without 
Authority,  67 — The  Authority  of  Ancient  Times  Not  Sufficient 
for  Today,  68 — The  Church  of  Christ  Has  Authority  and  is 
Connected  Up,  69. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H   73 

Wells,  Elder  John   17 

Wells,  Elder  Junius  F  112 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   60 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   35 

Mission  to  Europe,  35 — Preaching  on  the  Continent,  35 — Scenes 
of  Interest,  36 — Again  in  Britain,  36 — An  Anti-"Mormon"  Attack, 
37 — Duties  of  Mission  President,  38 — In  the  Hospital,  38 — 
Release  and  Return,  39 — Gradual  Convalescence,  39 — The 
Speaker's  Testimony,  39. 

Young,  Elder  Brigham  S   74 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   50 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B   95 


yiiiiiiiiiii3iiiiiiuiinHiniiiiiiiiic^iiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiii[ii3iuiHiiiiiicjiiiiiiiiiui:3iiiiiiiiiiiiC3iiiiuMnunMi^ 
a  — 

1  A  New  and  Revised  Edition  of  1 

I   H  Articles  of  Faith  I 

I  BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

|  Beautiful  Blue  Cloth  Binding....$1.00  Postpaid 

Black  Morocco   2.50 

|  Mission  Edition — Brown  Cloth  50       "  | 

=  This  book  is  so  favorably  known  that  merely  the  = 

u  "8 
announcement  that  this  new  edition  is  ready  is  suf- 

=         ficient  comment. 


iniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiimniiiuiiiiiiiiHiiiiiii  niitiiiiiiii 


r.  — 

Our  service  consists  not  only  in  selling  books  and  if 
supplies,  but  it  consists  also  of  helping  you  to  select 
jsj         your  home  library.  j| 

Tell  us  how  many  in  the  family,  their  ages  and 
how  much  you  want  to  spend  each  month  for  books, 
and  we'll  suggest  a  list  for  you. 

I  DESERET  BOOK  I 
I  COMPANY  1 

«  n 
5  44  E.  So.  Temple 

Salt  Lake  City  | 
q  I 

miicaiiimiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiimiiniiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiimiicaiHiiiiiiim 


^JIllllllll]C3lllllllllIIiC3IllRIIIIllllE2llllllltllIIC2IIIIIItlIIIIC2IIMIlllllllC3IIIllIIIIIltE2IIIllI(lIIIIi:3IIIIIIllllilC21l|M 


SOMETHING  NEW 


Science  and  Belief  in  God" 

1  BY  DR.  FREDERICK  J.  PACK 

An  interesting  treatment  of  an  interesting  subject.  Every 
student  of  religion  or  science  will  want  to  read  it. 
|  Price  $2.25.   By  Mail  $2.35 

iiimiiiiHimuiiiimimiimiiimimmmmimmiiitii  ijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiiitinitiiiiiiiiiiriiiinnMiiiiiiiiiiimimnHiiiiiniMiiiii  iimimit 

Doctrine  and  Covenants  Commentary 

Thin  paper — handy  sized  volume 
Cloth  $3.50;  Leather  $5.50,  postpaid 
If  you  want  to  study  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  you'll 
want  this  book. 

iiiiifiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiTiiMiiitiititiiti*itiitiitiiriiiiiiii]iiiiiijiiiiiiiiiitiiiiijiiritiiiiiiiiiiiiiii[iiitiiiiii[iiiijiiitiiitiiiiuiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHinn» 

S    "The  United  Order  Among  the  Mormons" 

(Missouri  Phase) 
=  BY  JOSEPH  A.  GEDDES 

|  Cloth— Price  $1.75.    By  Mail  $1.85 

H  tUIIIIIMIIlHllfMltlMllllMitjllltllllMtlllllJIMIIII]  [UlrlMIITttilllllHIItlUlIllKllMItlininiM]]  UII 1 1 1 H II II I  ft  1 1 1 1 1 1  ■  1 1 1 E 1  i  II 1 1 1 1 1 U II  Mt  11 1 M I  ril  I  IlllUtn 

The  Founding  of  Utah 

BY  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 
S  Just  the  history  of  our  own  state  that  you  have  been 

|        waiting  for.   $1.75.   By  Mail  $1.85. 

EE  iiuiiiimuMiiiimmiHimMiHimMimiimiiiiiiiiimuiimumiM 

A  NEW  EDITION 
There  is  now  ready  a  new  edition  of 

1  The  GOSPEL 

|  BY  ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

This  work  has  been  so  well  known,  and  its  value  so  much 
appreciated,  that  a  lengthy  description  is  not  necessary. 
Nicely  bound  in  cloth,  postpaid,  $1.25. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY 

^iic3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiHcaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiic3iiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiicaiiiiiiiiiiiiEaiiiiiiiiiiiicautiiiiiii! 


