|aMgu^fU'^i>mi 


i 


1 
I 

1 

I 
i 

1 

1 

| 

I 
I 

v. 

| 

| 

I 


ONE  HUNDRED  FOURTH 

Semi-Annual 
(Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  6,  7,  8, 1933 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


I 

II 


li 


awfiyffiffli>?wt<iWB^^ 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

MERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One— 1830  to  1930— in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction ;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW— new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A4/n<r\  (> 


One  Hundred  and  Fourth  Semi-Annual 

Conference  of    the  Church  of  Jesus 

Christ  of  Latter-da  v  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Fourth  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  6,  7,  and 
8,  1933. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  each  of  the 
sessions  of  the  Conference. 

The  proceedings  of  the  Conference  were  broadcast  by  radio, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit 
of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE   CHURCH   PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  and 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  *,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2,  3, 
Charles  A.  Callis." 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S. 
Wells.  6,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  and 
John  H.  Taylor.'' 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

President  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

'Richard  R.  Lyman  was  absent  because  of  illness. 

"John  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent  in  Europe. 

3Joseph  F.  Merrill  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

4Charles  A.  Callis  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  James  E. 
Talmage. 

"Charles  H.  Hart  absent  on  account  of  illness. 

6John  H.  Taylor  was  sustained  at  this  Conference  as  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  to  fill  the  vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  Brigham  H.  Roberts. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  George  S. 
Romney,  Northern  States ;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States ; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States  ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ; 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States ;  Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.,  Texas ;  Elias 
S.  Woodruff,  Western  States;  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley,  California;  William 
R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States;  John  V.  Bluth,  Canada;  Antoine  R. 
Ivins,  Mexican;  Joseph  S.  Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  large  auditorium  and  galleries  of  the  great  Tabernacle  were 
well  filled  when  the  time  for  opening  the  Conference  arrived. 

The  first  session  commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  Friday  morn- 
ing, October  6,  1933,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Elder  Wilford  A.  Beesley,  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers  of  the  Church,  who, 
by  the  unanimous  vote  of  the  assembly  were  sustained  in  their  various 
offices  and  callings  as  follows  :  . 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Stephen  L.  Richards     -    ~ 

Reed  Smoot  Richard  R.  Lyman 

George  Albert  Smith  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  F.  Richards  John  A.  Widtsoe 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 
The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

TRUSTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

FIRST   COUNCIL   OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Charles  H.  Hart  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

John  H.  Taylor 

PRESIDING   BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH    HISTORIAN   AND  RECORDER 

Joseph   Fielding  Smith,  with   the  following  assistants:   Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH    BOARD    OF    EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and.  Treasurer 

AUDITING   COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Orval  W.  Adams  John  W.  Hart 

TABERNACLE    CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor 

B.  Cecil  Gates,  Asst.  Conductor 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper  Wade  N.  Stephens 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG    MEN'S    MUTUAL    IMPROVEMENT    ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert   Smith,   General   Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  LADIES'   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  A.  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edna  Harker  Thomas,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints,"  the  great  pioneer  song  with, 
the  many  memories  it  brings  to  me  every  time  I  hear  it,  has  changed 
my  program  today. 

The  first  thing  I  am  going  to  read  will  be  from  section  136  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  This  is  "the  word  and  will  of  the  Lord"  given 
to  President  Brigham  Young: 

"And  if  any  man  shall  seek  to  build  up  himself,  and  seeketh  not  my  counsel, 
he  shall  have  no  power,  and  his  folly  shall  be  made  manifest. 

"Seek  ye;  and  keep  all  your  pledges  one  with  another  and  covet  not  that  which 
is  thy  brother's." 

AVOID  COVETOUSNESS 

I  cannot  think  of  anything  that  appeals  to  me  as  being  the  mind  and 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  5 

the  will  of  the  Lord  stronger-than  the  last  words  that  I  have  read,  namely : 
"Covet  not  that  which  is  thy  brother's." 

I  want  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  not  to 
covet  that  which  belongs  to  any  public  institution,  or  that  which  belongs 
to  any  city,  or  county,  or  the  governinent  of  the  United  States,  Unless  I 
have  been  misinformed,  many  people  have  said,  speaking  of  the  distribu- 
tion by  the  government  of  supplies  to  the  people:  "Well,  others  are 
getting  some,  why  should  not  I  get  some  of  it." 

FORTY-FIVE  YEARS  AGO  AND   NOW 

I  believe  that  there  is  a  growing  disposition  among  the  people  to 
try  to  get  something  from  the  government  of  the  United  States  with 
little  hope  of  ever  paying  it  back.  I  think  this  is  all  wrong.  I  believe 
that  there  is  not  that  same  moral  sense  among  the  people  today  that 
there  was  forty-five  years  ago.  Forty-five  years  ago  I  was  associated 
in  business  with  my  brother  and  my  cousin-in-law,  and  the  first  year  we 
sold  a  hundred  and  twenty  thousand  dollars  worth  of  goods,  and  ninety 
thousand  dollars  worth  of  those  goods  were  sold  on  time  to  the  farmers. 
We  borrowed  the  money  to  carry  these  debts,  and  we  netted  $100.50  for 
every  one  hundred  dollars  we  had  trusted  the  farmers.  The  loss  was 
only  $300  and  the  interest  received  paid  this,  and  fifty  cents  per  hundred 
more. 

I  am  connected  with  that  same  company  now,  and  it  is  known  as 
the  Consolidated  Wagon  and  Machine  Company.  During  the  past  few 
years  we  have  had  to  charge  off  over  one  million  dollars  of  loss  on 
farmers'  paper.  I  do  not  attribute  all  of  this  to  a  lack  of  honesty,  but 
there  are  a  great  many  people  who  are  not  honest  today. 

I  remember  very  distinctly  that  while  I  was  in  Europe  J.  M.  Stude- 
baker  visited  Salt  Lake  and  was  interviewed.  He  was  the  last  of  that 
quartette  of  wonderful  men,  the  Studebaker  brothers,  who  made  buggies 
and  wagons.  He  said  that  the  only  State  or  Territory  in  the  union  of 
the  United  States  where  they  had  sold  wagons  and  buggies  on  time  for 
ten  long  years,  and  where  every  wagon  and  buggy  was  paid  for  in  full, 
was  in  Utah.    That  was  a  marvelous  compliment  to  the  people  of  Utah. 

SHOULD  KEEP  PLEDGES 

Remember  that  it  is  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  that  we  keep 
our  pledges. 

"Keep  yourselves  from  evil  to  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  in  vain,  for  I  am  the 
Lord  your  God,  even  the  God  of  your  fathers,  the  God  of  Abraham  and  of  Isaac 
and  of  Jacob. 

"I  am  he  who  led  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  my  arm 
is  stretched  out  in  the  last  days  to  save  my  people  Israel. 

"Cease  to  contend  one  with  another ;  cease  to  speak  evil  one  of  another." 

FAULT   FINDING  DENOUNCED 

A  growing  evil  among  our  people  is  to  criticise  and  find  fault.  I 
think  there  is  no  hymn  in  the  hymn  book  that  I  prize  more  highly — and 


6  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

it  was  the  first  one  that  I  learned  by  heart — than  "Should  you  feel 
inclined  to  censure" : 

"Should  you  feel  inclined  to  censure 
Faults  you  may  in  others  view, 
Ask  your  own  heart,  ere  you  venture, 
If  that  has  not  failings  too. 

Let  not  friendly  vows  he  broken ; 
Rather  strive  a  friend  to  gain; 
Many  a  word  in  anger  spoken 
Finds  its  passage  home  again. 

Do  not,  then,  in  idle  pleasure, 
Trifle  with  a  brother's  fame, 
Guard  it  as  a  valued  treasure. 
Sacred  as  your  own  good  name. 

Do  not  form  opinions  blindly; 
Hastiness1  to  trouble  tends. 
Those  of  whom  we  thought  unkindly, 
Oft  become  our  warmest  friends." 

Learn  it  by  heart.  You  will  find  it  on  page  66  of  our  old  hymn 
book.  You  cannot  forget  the  page — 'the  6th  of  April  and  the  6th  of 
October  make  66 — so  when  you  go  home  don't  say  you  cannot  remember 
it,  because  you  cannot  forget  that  number  if  you  try.  Learn  it  by  heart 
and  put  it  into  your  lives,  and  it  will  be  valuable  to  you. 

"Cease  drunkenness;  and  let  your  words  tend  to  edifying  one  another." 

DANGER    IN    REPEAL 

Let  me  promise  you  right  here  and  now  that  if  you  vote  for  the 
repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment,  there  will  be  a  great  many  more 
professing  Latter-day  Saints  who  will  be  drunkards  than  there  have 
been  while  the  Eighteenth  Amendment  has  been  in  force. 

By  the  way,  I  received  a  postal  card — the  man  who  sent  it  did  not 
have  the  courage  to  sign  his  name — asking  me  not  to  talk  on  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  at  this  conference.  I  request  each  and  every  Latter-day 
Saint  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  to  read  what  I  said  about  the  Word 
of  Wisdom  just  six  months  ago.  Every  word  that  I  said  I  meant,  and 
among  other  things  I  said  I  hoped  and  prayed  that  we  as  a  people  would 
not  vote  for  the  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment.  Really,  I  was 
almost  tempted  this  morning  to  read  my  whole  sermon  over  again,  and 
let  it  go  at  that,  I  think  I  shall  have  it  printed — in  fact  I  will  have  it 
printed,  and  anyone  of  you  who  wants  a  copy,  or  a  half  dozen  copies  of  it, 
can  write  and  get  them. 

"If  thou  borrowest  of  thy  neighbor — "  Let  me  add,  or  anybody  elste — "thou 
shalt  restore  that  which  thou  hast  borrowed ;  and  if  thou  canst  not  repay  then  go 
straightway  and  tell  thy  neighbor,  lest  he  condemn  thee." 

AVOID    BANKRUPTCY 

That  is  one  of  the  finest  verses  that  was  ever  written,  and  please 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  7 

remember  that  this  I  am  reading  is  "the  word  and  the  will  of  the  Lord." 
In  other  words,  do  not  take  the  bankruptcy  act  unless  somebody  knocks 
you  down.  All  of  my  dear  friends,  many  years  ago  when  I  was  ruined 
in  their  judgment  beyond  the  peradventure  of  a  doubt,  and  there  was 
no  possibility,  as  far  as  they  were  able  to  see,  of  my  ever  being  able 
to  pay  my  debts,  begged  me  to  take  the  bankruptcy  act.  I  said :  "Not  if 
I  live  a  hundred  and  ten  years.  I  will  go  on  paying."  And  in  the 
providences  of  the  Lord  I  paid  all  of  my  debts. 

Now,  I  am  not  condemning  those  who  have  to  take  the  bankruptcy 
act;  but  I  know  of  men  whom  I  have  begged  and  pleaded  with  to  not 
take  the  bankruptcy  act,  who,  if  they  had  only  had  the  nerve,  the  faith, 
and  the  willingness  to  work,  would  have  come  out  all  right.  One  man 
took  the  bankruptcy  act  and  left  me  carrying  his  obligation  as  I  recall 
of  $12,700,  with  $9,000  security,  or  a  loss  of  $3,700.  But  eventually 
I  made  a  profit  of  several  thousand  more  than  $3,700  by  assuming  the 
debt  and  carrying  the  securities  for  a  few  years. 

REVELATIONS    FROM    THE   LORD 

"If  thou  shalt  find  that  which  thy  neighbor  has  lost,  thou  Shalt  make  diligent 
search  till  thou  shalt  deliver  it  to  him  again. 

"Thou  shalt  be  diligent  in  preserving  what  thou  hast," — in  other  words,  do 
not  be  wasteful — "that  thou  mayest  be  a  wise  steward ;  for  it  is  the  free  gift  of 
the  Lord  thy  God,  and  thou  art  his  steward." 

I  commend  to  you  that  you  read  all  of  that  section.  I  have  read 
only  verses  19  to  27,  I  will  read  one  more  verse : 

"If  thou  art  merry,  praise  the  Lord  with  singing,  with  music,  with  dancing, 
and  with  a  prayer  of  praise  and  thanksgiving." 

One  of  the  great  testimonies  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  the  work 
in  which  you  and  I  are  engaged  is  the  revelations  that  were  given  before 
the  Church  was  organized,  and  that  are  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  I  commend  that  you  read  all  of  the  very  first  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  is  a  very  wonderful  section  indeed.  I 
have  decided  to  read  a  few  verses  of  it : 

"And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that  they 
who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  servants,  neither 
give  heed  to  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be  cut  off  from  among 
the  people." 

*    *    *    * 

"Search  these  commandments,  for  they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the  proph- 
ecies and  promises  which  are  in  them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I  have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself;  and 
though  the  heavens1  and  the  earth  pass  away,  my  word  shall  not  pass  away,  but  shall 
all  be  fulfilled,  whether  by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  my  servants,  it  is  the 
same." 

REVELATION  TO  PROPHET'S  FATHER 

Section  4  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  is  a  revelation  given  to 
the  father  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  February,  1829,  a  year  before 
the  Church  was  organized : 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  oome  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God ;  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless  before 
God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God  ye  are  called  to  the  work; 

"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest ;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth  in 
his1  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not,  but 
bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul ; 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity,  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kindness, 
godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

"white  already  to  harvest" 

Many  of  these  revelations  given  before  the  Church  was  organized 
announced- that  the  field  was  white  already  to  harvest. 

When  I  stop  to  think  that  Wilf  ord  Woodruff  baptized  some  eighteen 
hundred  people  in  less  than  a  year  in  Herefordshire,  England,  and  that 
Orson  Pratt  baptized  several  thousand  people  in  his  missionary  work, 
I  realize  that  the  field  was  indeed  ready  to  harvest. 

We  have  had  as  high  as  twenty-three  hundred  missionaries  out  in 
the  field  for  one  year,  and  they  did  not  accomplish  as  much  as  Wilford 
Woodruff  accomplished  in  one  year.  His  labors  were  simply  marvelous 
to  me.    The  field  was  "white,  ready  to  harvest." 

Today  is  a  day  of  gleaning. 

"THOU  SHALT  NOT  BE  IDLE" 

I  read  now  from  section  42,  42nd  to  46th  verses : 

"Thou  shalt  not  be  idle ;  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear 
the  garments  of  the  laborer." 

I  heard  of  a  case  of  a  man  and  his  wife  and  their  boy  calling  on 
the  governor  of  the'state  who  had  a  job  for  the  boy.  I  believe  that  the 
amount  he  was  to  receive  was  thirty  dollars  a  month.  The  man  and 
the  woman  said :  "Our  boy  shall  not  work  for  thirty  dollars  a  month. 
We  will  beg  first ;  we  will  steal  first."  I  hope  that  this  story  has  been 
exaggerated.  Thirty  dollars  a  month  when  I  was  a  child  would  have 
been  a  fortune.  I  am  sure  that  my  dear  departed  mother  took  care 
of  herself  and  me  on  one-half  of  that  amount.  We  did  not  have  any 
butter  on  our  bread,  however.  We  did  not  sit  up  nights  and  have  a  fire 
burning,  because  we  could  not  afford  it.  We  went  to  bed  very  early. 
Why?     Because  we  had  plenty  of  bed  clothes. 

"And  whosoever  among  you  are  sick,  and  have  not  faith  to  be  healed,  but 
believe,  shall  be  nourished  with  all  tenderness,  with  herbs  and  mild  food,  and  that 
not  by  the  hand  of  an  enemy. 

"And  the  elders  of  the  Church,  two  or  more,  shall  be  called,  and  shall  pray 
for  and  lay  their  hands  upon  them  in  my  name;  and  if  they  die  they  shall  die 
unto  me,  and  if  they  live,  they  shall  live  unto  me. 

"Thou  shalt  live  together  in  love,  insomuch  that  thou  shalt  weep  for  the  loss 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  9 

of  them  that  die,  and  more  especially  for  those  that  have  not  a  hope  of  a  glorious 
resurrection. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  those  that  die  in  me  shall  not  taste  of  death, 
for  it  shall  be  sweet  unto  them." 

I  now  read  from  section  88,  verses  124  and  125 : 

"Cease  to  be  idle ;  cease  to  be  unclean ;  cease  to  find  fault  one  with  another ; 
cease  to  sleep  longer  than  is  needful ;  retire  to  thy  bed  early,  that  ye  may  not  be 
weary ;  arise  early,  that  your  bodies  and  your  minds  may  be  invigorated. 

"And  above  all  things,  clothe  yourselves  with  the  bond  of  charity,  as  with  a 
mantle,  which  is  the  bond  of  perfectness  and  peace." 

I  now  read  from  section  58,  verses  26  to  29: 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  things ;  for  he  that 
is  compelled  in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant ;  wherefore 
he  receiveth  no  reward. 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass"  much  righteousness ; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward." 

"mind  and  will"  of  god 

I  have  heard  any  number  of  Latter-day  Saints  say,  "Why,  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  is  not  a  commandment."  What  does  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  say?  That  it  is  the  mind  and  the  will  of  the  Lord.  And  why 
was  it  given?  "In  consequence  of  evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will 
exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days,"  and  a  more 
damnable  and  evil  design  was  never  in  the  heart  of  any  man  than  the 
advertisements  that  we  see  on  the  billboards  showing  a  beautiful  woman 
with  an  engagement  or  wedding  ring,  the  smoke  of  the  cigarette  making 
the  ring. 

What  is  the  purpose  of  these  advertisements?  To  get  money  by 
selling  cigarettes  to  destroy  the  mind  and  the  body  and  the  intelligence 
of  boys  and  girls.  I  get  hot  in  the  collar,  as  the  saying  is,  every  time  I 
think  of  the  millions  upon  millions,  and  the  billions  upon  billions,  of 
cigarettes  that  are  consumed. 

A  SOLUTION  OF  THE  PROBLEM 

Do  you  want  to  know  how  to  obtain  temporal  salvation?  Not 
only  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  all  the  world  would  have  the  solution  of 
that  problem  if  there  were  no  tea,  coffee,  liquor  nor  tobacco  used  in  the 
world.    Peace,  prosperity,  and  happiness  would  come  to  the  entire  world. 

I  now  read  from  section  130: 

"Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with 
us  in  the  resurrection. 

"And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life  through 
his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in 
the  world  to  come." 

I  know  of  no  one  of  our  general  authorities  Who  has  studied  more 
or  was  better  posted — 1  know  of  no  one  of  them  who  has  been  a  greater 


10  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

promulgator  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  than  were  the  two  men  who 
were  with  us  six  months  ago — James  E.  Talmage,  and  Brigham  H. 
Roberts — who  have  since  passed  away.  They  will  go  on  progressing 
beyond  the  grave  and  using  that  marvelous  store  of  knowledge  and 
information  that  they  had  gained.  We  miss  them,  the  whole  Church 
will  miss  them. 

BLESSINGS  PROMISED 

"There  is1  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven,  before  the  foundations  of 
this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated." 

Spiritual  and  temporal  salvation,  with  the  destroying  angel  passing 
us  by  will  come  from  observing  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  It  would  solve 
ail  the  problems  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  of  the  nation,  and  of 
the  world,  if  it  were  obeyed.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  this 
anonymous  Latter-day  Saint  asked  me  not  to  say  anything  about  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  as  I  said  before,  you  can  read  nearly  an  hour's  sermon 
about  it  if  you  will  read  my  sermon  preached  in  this  tabernacle  six 
months  ago. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  inspire  all  who  shall  speak  during  the  con- 
ference. May  we  grow  in  the  light  and  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  May  each  and  every  one  of  us  who  has  a  testimony  of  the 
divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  so  live  it  in  honesty  in 
the  daily  affairs  of  life,  so  live  it  in  energy  and  not  in  idleness,  and  so 
live  it  that  those  seeing  our  good  deeds  may  be  led  to  investigate  the 
Gospel  and  receive  that  sweet  and  wonderful  testimony  that  gives  us  a 
knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  and  the  Godliness  of  the  mission 
of  Jesus  Christ  our  Savior  and  our  Redeemer,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and 
I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

Sister  Mirl  Lindsay  rendered  a  solo,  "The  eternity  of  love." 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  in  the  depths  of  humility. 
I  did  not  receive  an  inkling  that  my  name  would  be  presented  this  morn- 
ing, and  I  feel  one  of  the  weakest  of  God's  creatures. 

The  first  miraculous  manifestation  I  received  when  I  was  a  youth 
was  through  President  Heber  J.  Grant  when  he  delivered  a  sermon  in 
Coalville  in  the  Summit  Stake  of  Zion.  The  President,  whom  I  dearly 
love,  has  always  made  a  profound  impression  upon  me  in  my  life.  I 
love  all  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I  know  that  they  are 
men  of  God.  I  know,  too,  as  sure  as  I  stand  here  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  I  know  by  the  same  power  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God.  I  am  in  absolute  harmony  with  all 
that  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  have  done. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to  spend  my  time  in  your  service. 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY  11 

God  help  me  to  always  be  faithful  and  humble,  and  to  always  love  his 
people  and  his  work,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  wish  first  to  express  my  delight  in  the 
choice  that  has  been  made  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  as  presented  here  this 
morning  by  President  Grant.  I  have  known  President  Callis  and 
President  John  H.  Taylor  for  many  years.  I  have  labored  with  Brother 
Callis  in  the  mission  field,  have  had  his  confidence,  and  know  him  to  be  a 
man  of  God,  one  who  will  give  his  life  if  necessary  for  the  truth. 

I  have  been  closely  associated  with  Brother  Taylor  in  the  Missionary 
Home.  I  know  his  integrity  to  the  truth.  I  know  his  reliability  and 
soundness.  I  know  he  comprehends  as  few  men  comprehend  the  needs 
of  missionaries.  It  is  highly  fitting  for  him  to  be  called  into  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  the  special  mission  of  which  is  to  direct  the 
missionary  work  of  the  Church  and  to  instruct  the  Seventies  of  the 
Church  as  missionaries.  I  congratulate  the  Church  upon  these  appoint- 
ments. I  know  Sister  Callis  and  Sister  Taylor,  and  know  them  to  be 
wise  women,  worthy  to  share  the  great  honor  that  has  come  to  their 
husbands.  They  are  faithful  and  true  and  capable.  God  bless  these 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  great  responsibility  that  has  come  to  them. 

ME  WORTH  OF  THE  INDIVIDUAL 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls."  This  divine  admonition  suggests 
the  topic  about  which  I  desire  to  speak;  namely,  The  Worth  of  the 
Individual. 

If,  as  it  has  been  said,  the  babe  "is  the  center  of  the  universe,"  then 
man  is  the  center  of  all  social  activity.  "Man  is  the  jewel  of  God,  who 
has  created  this  material  world  to  keep  His  treasure  in."  This  is  just 
another  way  of  saying  that  the  earth  was  created  for  man  and  not  man 
for  the  earth. 

/  am  one  of  those  who  believe  that  all  institutions  and  organizations 
exist  primarily  for  the  purpose  of  securing  to  the  individual  his  rights, 
his  happiness  and  proper  development  of  his  character.  As  soon  as 
organizations  fail  to  accomplish  this  purpose  their  usefulness  ceases. 
"So  act,"  says  Kant,  "as  to  treat  humanity,  whether  in  your  own  person 
or  that  of  another,  in  every  case  as  an  end,  never  as  a  means  only." 

In  all  ages  of  the  world  men  have  been  prone  to  ignore  the  person- 
ality of  others,  to  disregard  men's  rights  by  closing  against  them  the 
opportunity  to  develop.  The  worth  of  man  is  a  good  measuring  rod  by 
which  we  may  judge  of  the  rightfulness  or  wrongfulness  of  a  policy  or 
principle  whether  in  government,  in  business  or  social  affairs. 

THE  ARISTOCRACY  OF  BRUTE  FORCE 

Taking  a  long  glance  at  the  world's  history  with  its  confused  mass 


12  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

of  tangled  events,  we  can  glimpse  an  ever-increasing  group  momentum 
in  favor  of  the  rights  of  the  individual.  There  was  a  time  even  since  his- 
tory began,  when  men  were  ruled  by  the  aristocracy  of  brute  force. 
Under  this  condition  developed  such  group  powers  as  the  Huns,  who 
ruled  at  one  time  all  peoples  between  the  Caspian  and  the  Chinese  borders. 
Under  this  power  the  masses  were  but  serfs.  Indeed  all  conquered 
groups  were  compelled  to  pay  tribute  to  the  conquerors.  Those  who 
refused  were  either  subdued  or  exterminated.  At  one  time,  for  example, 
the  entire  region  between  the  Black  Sea  and  the  Mediterranean  was 
laid  waste.    A  good  illustration  of  "man's  inhumanity  to  man." 

THE  ARISTOCRACY  OF  BIRTH 

Centuries  passed  and  we  find  the  world  governed  principally  by  the 
aristocracy  of  birth.  This  ruling  power  was  climaxed  in  the  declaration 
of  the  weak  king,  James  the  Sixth  of  Scotland,  who  became  James  the 
First  of  England,  and  who  made  the  declaration  that  kings  rule  by  divine 
right.  Under  this  regime  also,  the  individual  who  represents  the  masses 
was  but  a  vassal  whose  principal  right  to  existence  in  the  mind  of  the 
ruling  class  was  to  pay  tribute.  For  eleven  years,  Charles  the  First,  son 
of  James  the  First,  contrary  to  the  spirit  and  express  declaration  of  the 
Magna  Charta,  ruled  without  a  parliament.  His  tyrannical  usurpation 
of  power  and  his  refusal  to  recognize  the  rights  of  his  subjects  proved 
his  undoing. 

THE  ARISTOCRACY  OF  WEALTH 

However,  the  aristocracy  of  birth  has  crumbled.  Thrones  of 
Emperors  and  Kings  are  today  unoccupied.  Titles  may  be  bought  for 
the  fourth  of  a  common  fortune,  or  for  the  wealth  of  an  actress.  In  the 
meantime  there  has  arisen  in  the  world  another  centralized  power  which 
may  be  called  the  aristocracy  of  wealth,  in  which  success  and  influence 
seem  in  proportion  to  the  amount  a  man  possesses.  Under  that  regime 
big  business  seems  more  concerned  about  raising  the  value  of  things 
than  in  raising  the  standard  of  living.  Men  are  used  to  make  money 
instead  of  money  being  used  to  make  men.  Of  course,  man  is  the 
ultimate  means  of  wealth,  but  this  personal  power  should  not  be  exploited 
by  any  man  or  force  advantageously  situated. 

We  are  living  in  an  age  of  changing  opinions,  of  swiftly  shifting 
human  relations.  Man's  wisdom  seems  baffled.  In  all  our  readjustments, 
plans  and  policies  we  cannot  do  better  than  keep  in  mind  the  divine 
admonition  that  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God. 

THE  END  OF  ALL  SOCIAL  DEVELOPMENTS 

There  has  been  no  little  discussion  as  to  whether  the  individual  or 
society  is  the  great  end  of  all  social  developments.  "From  the  Christian 
point  of  view  there  needs  be  no  hesitancy  in  the  answer  so  far  as  man 
is  concerned.  The  saved  individual  is  the  supreme  end  of  the  Divine 
Will." 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY  13 

Jesus  always  sought  the  welfare  of  the  individual,  and  individuals 
grouped  and  laboring  for  the  mutual  welfare  of  the  whole  in  conformity 
with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  constitute  the  Kingdom  of  God.  Many 
of  the  choicest  truths  of  the  Gospel  were  given  in  conversations  with 
individuals.  It  was  while  Jesus  talked  with  Nicodemus  that  He  gave 
us  the  message  relative  to  baptism  and  being  born  again.  From  the 
conversation  with  the  woman  of  Samaria  we  have  disclosed  the  truth 
that  they  who  worship  God  must  worship  in  spirit  and  in  truth.  From 
that  with  Mary  and  Martha  we  get  the  divine  declaration,  "I  am  the 
resurrection,  and  the  life;  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were 
dead,  yet  shall  he  live." 

Jesus'  regard  for  personality  was  supreme.  When  the  Pharisees 
dragged  into  his  presence  the  woman  taken  in  adultery,  Christ  saw 
through  the  soul  that  had  been  stained  with  sin  the  personality  that 
still  contained  the  spark  of  hope,  which  He  kindled  into  a  light  that 
warmed  and  guided  a  personality  back  to  confidence  and  perhaps  to 
righteousness. 

THE  PRESENT  POLITICAL  AND  ECONOMIC  SITUATION 

I  said  that  we  are  living  in  an  age  of  shifting  uncertainties.  Re- 
cently I  saw  an  expressive  cartoon  which  depicted  an  engine  on  an  old 
railroad  track,  from  which  a  train  loaded  with  people  was  being  pulled 
in  another  direction  by  a  tractor  which  had  left  the  rails  and  started 
out  over  an  unbeaten  track.  The  President  of  the  United  States  was 
the  engineer.  It  is  expressive  of  our  political  and  economic  situation  today. 
Some  of  us  may  not  know  just  where  we  are  going,  but  we  are  trusting 
our  leader. 

To  policies  and  legislation  now  proposed  for  the  purpose  of  lifting 
the  country  out  of  the  quagmire  of  depression,  let  us  in  the  spirit  of 
tolerance  apply  the  test  of  The  Worth  of  Souls.  Two  of  these  policies 
are  The  National  Recovery  Act,  and  Prohibition. 

THE  NATIONAL  RECOVERY  ACT 

Of  this  one  thing  we  are  certain,  that  the  dominating  spirit  of  the 
movement  expressed  in  the  blue  emblem  of  the  National  Recovery  Act 
has  as  its  impelling  motive  the  good  of  the  individual.  It  is  reaching 
out  to  alleviate  suffering  and  to  make  brighter  the  life  of  every  unfortu- 
nate. Vast  sums  of  money  are  being  appropriated  to  make  better  the 
condition  of  every  citizen  in  the  United  States.  That  motive  is  sound. 
It  conforms  to  the  measuring  rod  of  the  individual  and,  therefore,  de- 
serves the  hearty  support  of  every  loyal  American. 

DEBASING    TO    MANHOOD 

I  wish  I  could  say  as  much  of  the  Anti-Prohibition  movement. 
Many  who  are  favoring  the  repeal  of  the  18th  Amendment  sincerely 
believe  repeal  of  sumptuary  laws  will  foster  greater  temperance.  Others, 
however,  lay  much  stress  upon  the  fact  that  if  our  prohibition  laws  are 


14  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

repealed  we  shall  have  more  revenue.  In  this  latter  case  money  seems 
to  take  precedence  over  manhood.  I  have  no  objection  to  any  effort, 
indeed,  I  favor  every  means  to  turn  into  the  natural  channels  of  govern- 
ment wealth  which  has  heretofore  been  flowing  to  bootleggers  and  other 
lawbreakers.  But  while  that  is  commendable  I  cannot  lose  sight  of  the 
fact  that  traffic  in  alcoholic  drinks  and  the  indulgence  in  intoxicating 
liquors  are  debasing  to  manhood.  That  which  does  not  contribute 
to  the  need,  to  the  comfort,  to  the  happiness  of  the  individuals  should 
be  banished  from  society  at  whatever  monetary  expenditure.  "Absti- 
nence from  the  use  of  alcohol  or  drugs  and  purity  in  the  sex  relations 
are  fundamental  determinants  of  our  efficiency,  whether  mental,  moral, 
or  physical."  If  the  majority  of  the  thinking  men  and  women  in  the 
United  States  agree  that  prohibition  is  not  the  best  way  to  handle  this 
evil,  then  mark  what  I  say,  some  method  of  control  must  be  devised 
and  assumed  not  only  by  the  States  but  by  the  Federal  Government  or 
the  Cause  of  Temperance  will  be  set  back  twenty-five  years.  It  is  my 
personal  opinion  that  traffic  in  intoxicating  liquor  should  be  placed  in 
the  same  category  as  traffic  in  morphine  and  other  drugs  and  opiates. 

SPECIAL  MEANING  TO  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

To  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
the  worth  of  the  individual  has  special  meaning.  Quorums,  auxiliaries, 
wards,  stakes,  even  the  Church  itself,  are  all  organized  to  further  the 
welfare  of  man.  All  are  but  means  to  an  end,  and  that  end  the  happiness 
and  eternal  welfare  of  every  child  of  God. 

With  wards,  quorums,  organizations  and  auxiliaries  in  mind,  I  wish 
to  suggest  again  three  major  means  of  winning  souls  to  Christ. 

These  three  conditions  are: 

1.  Enrollment  of  every  individual. 

2.  Personal  contact. 

3.  Group  service. 

These  three  plans  or  conditions  are  already  operating  in  the  Church,  but 
unless  they  function  they  will  be  ineffective  in  acomplishing  the  purposes 
for  which  they  have  been  established.  They  will  be  like  a  sugar  factory 
in  which  the  wheels  are  silent  and  rusty. 

The  first  duty  of  each  of  these  organizations  is  to  enroll  every 
individual  who  belongs  to  it,  not  only  enroll  but  know  the  conditions 
under  which  each  person  lives. 

The  second  condition  is  personal  contact.  To  make  this  possible 
and  effective  there  has  been  organized  in  every  ward  in  the  Church  a 
Correlation  Committee,  made  up  of  the  heads  of  quorums  and  organiza- 
tions which  combined  comprehend  every  man,  woman,  and  child  in  the 
ward.  The  third  is  service.  It  is  not  enough  to  know,  and  it  isn't  suffi- 
cient to  visit,  for  no  person  can  become  fairly  enthused  with  the  prin- 
ciples and  doctrines  of  the  Gospel  unless  he  lives  them.  "If  ye  will  do 
the  will,  ye  shall  know,"  is  a  fundamental  law  of  spiritual  growth. 

There  are  3,512  quorums  in  the  Church  in  which  are  enrolled 
150,700  men  and  boys.    There  are  101,876  officers  and  teachers  in  the 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY  15 

auxiliary  organizations.  If  each  of  these  members  of  quorums  and  lady 
officers  and  teachers  (212,500)  were  to  influence  for  better  living  one 
individual  and  should  "labor  all  his  days  *  *  *  and  bring  save  it  be  but  one 
soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be  his  joy  with  him  in  the  Kingdom  of 
my  Father."  "And  now,"  continues  the  revelation,  "if  your  joy  will  be 
great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought  unto  me. into  the  kingdom 
of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should  bring  many 
souls  unto  me !" 

PERSONALITY  SACRED 

I  appeal  to  all  members  of  the  Church  and  particularly  to  presidents 
of  quorums  and  to  officers  of  all  auxiliaries  to  put  forth  a  unified  effort 
to  make  sweeter  and  better  the  lives  of  men.  Only  in  such  effort  can 
the  high  ideal  for  which  the  Church  was  organized  be  realized.  Let  us 
prove  to  the  world  and  particularly  to  those  who  are  suspicious  of  us 
that  we  consider  personality  sacred  and  not  a  thing  to  be  exploited  for 
gain. 

DUTY  OF  INDIVIDUAL  TO  SOCIETY 

While  emphasizing  the  worth  of  the  individual,  I  wish  to  say  that 
the  individual  in  turn  owes  a  duty  to  society.  The  world  today  perhaps 
as  never  before  is  demanding  that  the  employer  consider  his  employee 
not  merely  as  a  part  of  a  machine  to  make  money,  but  as  a  living,  sensitive 
being  entitled  to  justice  and  right.  It  is  equally  obligatory  upon  the 
employee  to  recognize  the  employer  as  one  who  has  equal  privileges.  It 
is  the  duty  of  the  citizen  to  take  this  same  attitude  toward  the  leaders 
of  his  government,  and  the  duty  of  the  churchman  to  recognize  the 
rights  of  those  appointed  to  preside. 

This  is  a  time  in  which  we  should  renew  and  rekindle  the  faith  of 
our  fathers.  On  every  hand  "we  see  social  unrest ;  unloving  and  unlovely 
men,  greed,  selfishness,  political  corruption.  We  see  people  indifferent, 
pleasure  seeking,  ignorant,  far  from  following  a  life  of  service.  Plans 
fail  and  success  seems  an  Utopian  dream.  The  materialistic  philosophy 
of  life  which  so  largely  controls  our  thinking  today  has  nearly  succeeded 
in  convincing  the  world  that  a  man's  life  does  consist  in  the  abundance 
of  things  which  he  possesses." 

THE  ARISTOCRACY  OF   CHARACTER 

It  is  time  for  the  world  to  try  Christ's  teachings.  The  Church  of 
Christ  is  so  completely  organized  and  so  constituted  to'  inspire  its  mem- 
bers that  we  may  confidently  look  forward  to  the  day  when  all  individuals 
will  have  a  fair  chance  for  the  joy  of  living,  when  men  will  be  measured 
by  what  they  are  and  not  merely  by  what  they  possess,  and  when  an 
aristocracy  of  character,  will  govern  in  organized  society. 

"Then  let  us  pray  that  come  it  may, 
As  come  it  will  for  a'  that, 
That  man  to  man  the  world  o'er 
Shall  brothers  be  for  a'  that,"  - 


16  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

Carlyle  answered  the  old  question,  "What  is  the  chief  end  of  man  ?" 
by  saying: 

"To  glorify  God  and  enjoy  him  forever." 

And  the  Prophet  Joseph  brought  to  light  the  great  truth  that 
God's  work  and  glory  is  "to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man." 

May  the  Lord  continually  inspire  us  to  aid  in  this  divine  consum- 
mation. I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  Columbia  Broadcasting  Company  has  been  very  good  to  us. 
They  have  given  us,  free  of  charge,  a  national  broadcast  for  our  choir. 
If  we  had  to  pay  for  it  this  broadcast  would  cost  us  tens  of  thousands  of 
dollars  every  month,  if  not  every  week.  Not  only  have  they  given  us  free 
for  this  purpose  a  half  hour  each  week,  but  some  months  ago  they 
requested  that  we  increase  our  broadcast  from  a  half  hour  to  an  hour. 

They  have  now  asked  permission  to  shut  us  off  the  air,  so  far  as  this 
meeting  is  concerned,  fifteen  minutes  from  now.  Therefore,  the  last 
five  or  ten  minutes  of  Brother  Ballard's  remarks  will  be  heard  by  this 
audience  only.  We  dislike  to  deprive  those  who  are  listening  to  the 
radio  broadcast  of  the  privilege  of  hearing  the  last  part  of  Brother 
Ballard's  remarks,  but  if  they  wish  to  read  his  remarks  they  can  do  so 
in  the  newspaper  or  in  the  Conference  Pamphlet,  as  they  will  be  published. 

We  feel  that  we  owe  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Company  this 
courtesy,  otherwise  a  great  many  people  as  far  distant  as  the  Hawaiian 
Islands  would  be  deprived  of  the  opportunity  of  listening  to  the  report 
of  the  baseball  game. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

It  is  a  great  joy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  meet  with  you  again 
in  one  of  the  great  conferences  of  the  Church,  and  how  my  heart  has 
rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of  this  meeting. 

With  Brother  McKay,  I  rejoice  in  the  selection  of  those  splendid, 
devoted,  faithful  men  who  have  been  called  into  the  service.  Our  hearts 
are  made  sad  at  the  loss  of  such  giants  as  Brother  Talmage  and  Brother 
Roberts,  but  their  works  will  live  after  them.  But  I  am  as  sure  that 
the  Lord  will  raise  up  men  to  carry  on  this  work  as  I  am  that  I  live. 
I  have  no  fear  about  it. 

PROPHECY   OF    JOEL   QUOTED 

One  hundred  and  ten  years  ago  last  month,  three  years  after  the 
prophet  had  received  his  first  vision  in  the  sacred  grove,  while  praying 
concerning  the  future  of  his  work,  anxious  to  have  a  forgiveness  of  his 
sins  and  to  know  his  standing  before  the  Lord,  he  received  a  visit  from 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  17 

a  prophet  of  this  American  hemisphere  who  announced  that  he  was 
Moroni,  who  had  kept  the  records  of  his  fathers  sacredly  guarded  for 
hundreds  of  years,  and  that  these  records  were  about  to  come  forth, 
and  that  a  new  and  marvelous  work  was  about  to  begin.  Among  other 
things  he  quoted  the  second  chapter  of  Joel,  twenty-eighth  to  the  last 
verse.  The  angel  said  that  this  was  not  yet  fulfilled,  but  soon  would 
be.     I  shall  read  a  part  of  what  Moroni  quoted : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward,  that  I  will  pour  out  my  spirit  upon  all 
flesh;  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy,  your  old  men  shall  dream 
dreams,  your  young  men  shall  see  visions : 

"And  also  upon  the  servants  and  upon  the  handmaids  in  those  days  will  I 
pour  out  my  spirit. 

"And  I  will  show  wonders  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth." 

One  hundred  and  ten  years  ago  Moroni  declared  that  the  day  was 
at  hand  when  that  prediction  of  old  was  about  to  be  fulfilled. 

ONE   HUNDRED  YEARS  AGO 

As  I  stood  in  the  World's  Fair  a  few  days  ago,  A  Century  of  Pro- 
gress, in  Chicago,  witnessing  the  marvelous  growth  that  has  occurred  in 
the  hundred  years  that  have  just  passed,  I  could  not  help  but  think  of 
this  prophecy  of  Joel.  In  the  hall  of  transportation  and  communication 
I  saw  what  was  the  condition  of  the  world  one  hundred  years  ago,  so  far 
as  their  means  of  communication  or  travel  was  concerned,  and  it  had 
made  almost  no  progress  since  the  days  of  ancient  Egypt.  During  all 
these  centuries  of  time  men  were  traveling  as  they  did  one  hundred  years 
ago.  Their  means  of  travel  was  the  canal  boat,  the  ox-cart,  the  horse 
and  wagon.  Their  tools  were  largely  the  shovels,  the  scythes,  axes,  and 
the  flails.  It  took  from  May  to  November,  one  hundred  years  ago,  to 
send  a  letter  from  one  coast  to  the  other,  and  the  cost  was  five  dollars. 
Dirt  roads  were  the  only  highways.  Newspapers  were  made  on  hand 
presses,  and  only  two  hundred  copies  an  hour. 

THE  EIGHTEENTH-  CENTURY 

Then  the  eighteenth  century  came,  the  new  day  that  the  Lord  de- 
clared 1 10  years  ago  was  about  to  dawn,  burst  on  the  world,  and  what 
marvels  have  been  wrought !  Wonders  in  the  heavens,  and  wonders 
upon  the  earth,  even  as  Joel  declared.  In  1829  came  the  locomotive ;  in 
1832  the  telegraph  ;  in  1833  reaping  machinery ;  in  1830  sewing  machines ; 
in  1849  steam  engines ;  in  1852  elevators ;  in  1856  steel.  Then  followed 
internal  combination  engines,  electric  generators,  automobiles,  airplanes, 
typewriters,  motion  pictures,  the  telephone,  the  radio,  the  electric  lamp, 
and  a  thousand  other  marvelous  inventions. 

In  1874  it  cost  two  hundred  and  fifty  dollars  to  move  a  ton  of 
freight  four  hundred  miles.  In  1896  Barnum  and  Bailey  exhibited  for 
the  first  time  in  their  circus  a  horseless  carriage.  Elwood  Haynes  was 
arrested  in  Chicago  for  driving  the  first  automobile  in  that  city.  There 
are  only  twenty-five  million  of  them  traveling  in  the  United  States  today. 


18  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

Jane  Addams  said:  "The  decade  beginning  in  1830  has  been  des- 
cribed as  the  beginning  day  of  the  emancipation  and  hope,  opening  paths 
of  progress  in  all  directions." 

Bruce  Barton  said:  "The  heresy  of  yesterday  becomes  the  ortho- 
doxy of  today.  Truth  never  stands  still.  It  goes  forward,  sometimes 
slowly,  sometimes  by  leaps  and  bounds ;  at  present  it  is  flying." 

MORONI'S  WORDS  FULFILLED 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  words  of 
the  angel  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph  Smith  have  been  fulfilled.  Wonders 
have  been  wrought  upon  the  earth  and  in  the  heavens.  The  vision  of 
God  has  been  opened  to  the  minds  of  men.  In  the  laboratory  and  else- 
where they  have  dreamed  dreams.  The  secrets  of  God  have  been  made 
known  to  man.  It  is  not  because  this  generation  is  smarter  than  those 
which  have  preceded  it,  for  some  of  the  greatest  of  minds  that  ever 
appeared  in  the  world  came  before  our  century  of  time,  but  it  was  not 
the  hour  when  these  secrets  were  to  be  known.  I  grant  you  that  the 
Lord  has  sent  into  the  world  in  this  day  choice  men  who  can  be  used 
to  accomplish  these  marvelous  things,  but  even  their  smartness  would 
not  have  succeeded  had  it  not  been  the  good  pleasure  of  God  to  unlock 
and  open  the  windows  of  heaven  and  pour  his  Spirit  out  upon  all  flesh, 
and  we  have  made  greater  progress  in  the  last  hundred  years  than  was 
made  in  all  the  ages  of  time.     Surely  God  has  done  it. 

As  I  looked  upon  these  marvelous  advancements  and  realized  that 
I  had  lived  to  see  in  my  own  period  of  time  greater  progress  than  all 
of  my  fathers  have  seen  in  all  the  ages  of  time  that  they  have  lived 
upon  the  earth,  I  asked  myself  what  have  I  done  to  be  privileged  to  live 
in  such  a  marvelous  age,  and  to  see  so  much,  and  what  is  my  responsi- 
bility, and  what  is  the  end  of  the  matter,  for  we  have  not  yet  reached 
the  end  ? 

MARVELOUS  TRANSFORMATION  IN  PALESTINE 

Among  the  marvels  that  I  witness  in  the  earth  in  addition  to  these 
inventions  is  the  hand  of  God  at  work  establishing  his  people,  even  as 
he  predicted  in  ancient  times.  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said  concerning 
Jerusalem : 

"And  they  shall  fall  by  the  edge  of  the  sword,  and  shall  be  led  away  captive 
into  all  nations ;  and  Jerusalem  shall  be  trodden  down  of  the  Gentiles,  until  the 
times  of  the  Gentiles  be  fulfilled." 

All  of  that  has  been  fulfilled,  and  Jerusalem  has  been  trodden  down. 
But  the  time  of  deliverance  had  come  when  General  Allenby's  army 
marched  up  to  the  land  of  Palestine  and  broke  the  band  and  the  power 
that  had  ruled  that  land  for  ages.  Although  the  Crusaders  had  waged 
war  to  redeem  it,  and  millions  of  lives  and  property  had  been  given 
to  rescue  the  land,  it  was  not  the  hour  until  this  day  dawned,  and  from 
that  day  on  the  hand  of  God  has  been  over  the  land  and  its  prosperity 
is  manifest. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  19 

I  want  to  read  just  a  few  words  from  a  recent  visitor,  an  eminent 
gentleman  who  has  been  over  the  land  of  Palestine,  and  who  calls  atten- 
tion to  the  fact  that  a  few  years  ago,  an  eminent  Frenchman,  Chateau- 
briand, visited  the  land,  and  called  it  a  land  of  desolation,  where  the 
voice  of  God  was  not  heard  any  more,  where  all  was  still  and  quiet, 
and  the  end  of  miracles  had  come.  But,  said  this  visitor,  "Chateau- 
briand was  wrong,  for  a  host  of  miracles  had  happened  even  in  the 
short  interval  of  time  since  my  last  visit  to  the  Holy  Land." — Some  two 
years  before. — "Wheatfields  waved  me  a  welcome,  where  only  marsh 
and  barren  sand  existed  on  the  previous  trip.  Jerusalem  has  spread 
out  in  brand-new  Jewish  suburbs.  Tiberias  has  become  a  Spa.  Perfume 
is  borne  on  the  breezes  from  the  new  orange  groves  of  Sharon.  Here 
and  there  too  the  hanging  gardens  of  Solomon's  day  have  been  restored. 
Fresh  earth  has  been  dragged  up  the  mountain  slopes  by  Jewish  labor 
battalions.  Trees  have  been  planted  on  the  hills.  New  vineyards 
have  been  laid  out  over  the  gray,  sun-beaten  rocks  of  Samaria.  Chateau- 
briand's 'desert'  has  grown  a  hundred  new  schoolhouses ;  it  has  'budded, 
bloomed  blossoms,  and  yielded'  transmission  stations  and  farmsteads, 
a  university,  and  a  network  of  colonies.  Surely  it  is  a  miracle  more 
wondrous  than  the  budding  of  Aaron's  rod  in  the  wilderness  of  Paran." 

PROMISES    CONCERNING    JEWS    BEING    FULFILLED 

And  the  Jews  are  turning  their  faces  towards  that  land  of  hope 
for  them.  Our  hearts  have  been  full  of  sympathy  for  this  race.  They 
are  our  half-brothers.  God's  promises  upon  them  are  to  be  fulfilled. 
The  inspiration  that  directed  the  Prophet  Joseph  to  send  one  of  the 
Apostles  of  the  Church  a  hundred  years  ago  to  bless  the  land  for  the 
return  of  the  Jews,  speaks  of  our  affection  for  them,  and  the  day  has 
come  when  there  is  no  enmity  between  Ephraim  and  Judah,  for  we  are  of 
Ephraim  and  we  love  our  brothers  the  Jews.  If  the  hand  of  oppression 
seems  still  reared  against  them  in  Germany,  and  there  seems  to  be  no 
peace  for  them,  we  still  see  the  hand  of  God  even  in  that.  For  we  came 
west  because  we  had  to;  it  was  the  place  for  us,  and  the  Lord  has 
appointed  a  place  for  them,  and  if  they  do  not  go  willingly  they  will 
have  to  go  otherwise,  even  as  we  had  to  do,  but  they  will  see  the  hand 
of  God  opening  before  them  a  way  and  an  opportunity  to  rebuild  them- 
selves and  to  establish  a  nation. 

ANOTHER  GREAT  PROPHECY  FULFILLED 

This  is  one  of  the  miracles,  one  of  the  mighty  miracles  of  this 
modern  age.  And  then  I  remember  also  that  the  prophet  Isaiah  declared 
concerning  that  other  great  movement  that  was  to  come  in  this  age : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted  above 
the  hills ;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

"And  many  people  shall  go  and  say,  Come  ye,  and  let  us!  go  up  to  the  mountain 
of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob ;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways, 
and  we  will  walk  in  his  paths." 


20  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

That  miracle  has  been  fulfilled — a  part  of  this  century  of  progress. 
For  up  in  the  tops  of  these  mountains,  not  down  in  the  valleys  and 
prairies  of  Illinois  and  of  Ohio,  .but  here,  this  is  the  place,  and  we  came 
to  fulfil  the  prophecies  of  old,  to  a  place  which  God  has  preserved  for 
this  people.  And  here  we  are,  made  up  of  all  nations  of  the  earth,  trying 
to  work  out  the  problems  of  the  world  and  solve  them  by  and  through 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

AT  THE  WORLD'S  FAIR  IN  CHICAGO 

In  our  booth  at  Chicago  the  elders  of  our  Church  are  calling  the 
attention  of  the  thousands  who  pause  there  to  the  wonderful 
Gospel  message.  That  to  me  is  a  miracle.  Forty  years  ago,  when 
we  sent  Brother  Brigham  H.  Roberts  to  speak  for  the  Church  before 
the  Parliament  of  Religions,  he  did  not  get  a  hearing  except  in  a  com- 
mittee room.  But  today  it  is  different,  we  stand  with  equal  opportunity 
to  every  other  Church  in  the  land,  with  a  display  that  is  in  many  respects 
far  more  interesting,  and  more  people  pause  to  listen  to  our  story. 
Mormonism  is  solving  the  problems  of  the  day,  and  I  thought  as  I 
witnessed  these  things,  how  God  is  moving. 

MAKING    HISTORY 

We  are  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world  and  solve  the  problems  of  men, 
and  as  I  listened  to  the  appeal  of  our  President  I  felt  that  we  were  making 
history  today.  We  have  been  making  history  during  these  years,  and 
we  are  going  to  make  some  more  history  in  the  next  month  or  so,  that 
we  are  either  going  to  be  proud  or  ashamed  of,  when  we  come  to  express 
ourselves  on  the  Eighteenth  Amendment. 

IF   WE  ARE  DIFFERENT 

I  heard  the  missionaries  in  Canada,  where  I  visited  recently  saying, 
"O,  how  we  are  praying  that  Utah  will  be  different!  Then  we  may  go 
from  door  to  door  with  our  heads  up  and  with  a  new  spirit  in  our  hearts, 
with  new  courage  to  appeal  to  the  best  people."  For  let  me  say  to  you 
that  many  of  the  best  people  in  this  land  are  standing  for  the  maintenance 
of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment.  I  find  that  in  the  churches  all  over 
the  land  noble  souls  are  fighting  for  these  high  ideals,  and  our  appeal 
to  them  will  be  greater  than  it  has  ever  been  before,  if  we  are  different. 
And  ought  we  to  be  different?  The  day  will  come  when  the  ends  of 
the  earth  will  say,  "Come  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to 
the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob."  It  will  be  to  learn  of  our  ways,  and  if  our 
ways  are  like  the  ways  of  the  world,  why  will  they  come?  If  we  are 
different  they  will  come.  We  are  called  to  be  pattern-makers,  to  hold 
aloft  the  colors,  and  to  show  the  way  to  others  who  cannot  see  as  clearly 
as  we  can. 

Thank  the  Lord  for  our  glorious  principles.  Our  fathers  were 
true  to  them  in  the  day  of  their  trials,  they  showed  their  stamina  and 
their  worth.     If  there  is  enough  of  the  iron  that  was  in  them  in  us 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  21 

we  too  will  stand,  though  we  stand  alone,  for  ideals,  for  standards,  for 
the  accomplishment  of  great  things.  God  expects  it  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

IN  PREPARATION  FOR  CHRIST'S  COMING 

Now  what  is  to  be  the  end  of  all  this  progress,  brethren  and  sisters? 
I  declare  to  you  it  is  preparing  this  world  for  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  God.  He  would  not  come  to  a  world  that  was  in  the  condition  this 
world  was  in  a  hundred  years  ago.  All  these  marvelous  changes  had 
to  come.  Yes,  and  many  changes  will  yet  come,  for  there  are  many 
things  that  will  have  to  take  place  before  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come. 
But  this  world  was  never  more  willing  to  receive  him  than  they  are 
today,  because  the  whole  world  would  like  a  dictator,  somebody  to  tell 
them  what  to  do,  someone  in  whom  they  have  confidence.  But  they 
will  want  him  worse  than  they  want  him  today  before  he  comes. 
There  are  battles  to  be  fought,  yes,  and  struggles  and  conflict,  war  and 
bloodshed,  and  famine  'and  pestilence.  And  nations  will  be  wrecked, 
and  thrones  will  fall,  but  out  of  all  of  these  conflicts  will  come  the 
victory  for  truth  and  righteousness.  All  things  will  go  forward  to 
prepare  this  world  for  its  golden  age,  and  its  golden  age  will  come,  and 
universal  brotherhood  will  come,  and  peace  will  come  to  men. 

DELIVERANCE    PROMISED 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  through  these  trials,  that  we  may 
be  true,  that  we  may  not  show  the  white  feather,  that  we  shall  be  patient 
under  trials  and  be  true  to  God.  For  I  promise  you  that  you  will  see 
the  work  of  God  go  forward.  Its  new  day  has  come,  and  God  has  a 
great  program  for  this  Church.  If  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  keep 
their  covenants,  if  they  will  pay  their  tithes  and  their  offerings,  and 
keep  themselves  clean  and  undefiled  from  the  sins  of  the  world,  I 
promise  them,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  deliverance  from  all  their 
difficulties,  and  they  shall  see  the  sun  arise  with  healing  in  its  wings  for 
all  who  have  been  wounded  and  hurt. 

God  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  true,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  hardly  think  it  would  be  fair  to  the  next  speaker  to  give  him 
ten  minutes  at  a  time  when  the  people  cannot  hear  him  over  the  radio, 
so  I  am  going  to  read  a  revelation  that  was  given  to  the  Patriarch  Hyrum 
Smith.  The  revelation  says  that  it  is  for  all  of  us.  This  also  was  given 
eleven  months  before  the  Church  was  organized :  I  am  going  to  read  all 
of  Section  11 : 

"A  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children  of 
men. 

"Behold,  I  am  God;  give  heed  to  my  word,  which  is  quick  and  powerful, 
sharper  than  a  two-edged  sword,  to  the  dividing  asunder  of  both  joints  and 
marrow;  therefore  give  heed  unto  my  word. 


22  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

"Behold,  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  therefore,  whoso  desireth  to 
reap  let  him  thrust  in  his'  sickle  with  his  might,  and  reap  while  the  day  lasts,  that 
he  may  treasure  up  for  his  soul  everlasting  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

"Yea,  whosoever  will  thrust  in  his  sickle  and  reap,  the  same  is  called  of  God. 

"Therefore,  if  you  will  ask  of  me  you  shall  receive ;  if  you  will  knock  it  shall 
be  opened  unto  you. 

"Now,  as  you  have  asked,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  keep  my  commandments" — 

I  hear  a  great  many  people  say :  "I  get  sick  and  tired  of  the  same 
thing  over  and  over  and  over  again.  I  am  so  sick  of  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  I  do  not  know  what  to  do."  If  everybody  who  says  that  would 
get  up  on  top  of  a  house  and  shout :  "I  do  not  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom," 
he  could  not  give  himself  away  any  more  perfectly. 

" and  seek  to  bring  forth  and  establish  the  cause  of  Zion." 

And  remember,  the  Church  was  not  yet  organized. 

"Seek  not  for  riches." 

ETERNAL    RICHES 

Wouldn't  it  be  fine  if  we  did  not  do  that? 

"Seek  not  for  riches  but  for  wisdom ;  and,  behold,  the  mysteries  of  God  shall 
be  unfolded  unto  you,  and  then  shall  you  be  made  rich.  Behold,  he  that  hath 
eternal  life  is  rich. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  you  desire  of  me  so  it  shall  be  done 
unto  you;  and,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  be  the  means  of  doing  much  good  in  this 
generation." 

A    MARVELOUS    POSTERITY 

Not  only  did  Hyrum  Smith  do  much  good,  but  what  a  marvelous 
posterity  he  has  left  in  one  man  alone — Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  former 
President  of  the  Church. 

"Say  nothing  but  repentance  unto  this  generation." 

Once  more : 

"Keep  my  commandments,  and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work,  according  to 
my  commandments,  and  you  shall  be  blessed. 

"Behold,  thou  hast  a  gift,  or  thou  shalt  have  a  gift  if  thou  wilt  desire  of  me 
in  faith,  with  an  honest  heart,  believing  in  the  power  of  Jesus  Christ,  or  in  my 
power  which  speaketh  unto  thee;" 

How  we  should  rejoice  to  have  Jesus  Christ  speak  unto  us!  And 
he  has  done  so  in  this  revelation. 

"For  behold,  it  is  I  that  speak;  behold,  I  am  the  light  which  shineth  in  the 
darkness,  and  by  my  power  I  give  these  words  unto  thee. 

"And  now,  verijy,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  put  your  trust  in  that  Spirit  which 
leadeth  to  do  good — yea,  to  do  justly,  to  walk  humbly,  to  judge  righteously;  and 
this  is  my  Spirit. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  impart  unto  you  of  my  Spirit,  which 
shall  enlighten  your  mind,  which  shall  fill  your  soul  with  joy; 

"And  then  shall  ye  know,  or  by  this  shall  you  know,  all  things  whatsoever 
you  desire  of  me,  which  are  pertaining  unto  things  of  righteousness,  in  faith 
believing  in  me  that  you  shall  receive. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.   GRANT  23 

"Behold,  I  command  you  that  you  need  not  suppose  that  you  are  called  to 
preach  until  you  are  called. 

"Wait  a  little  longer,  until  you  shall  have  my  word,  my  rock,  my  church,  and 
my  gospel,  that  you  may  know  of  a  surety  my  doctrine. 

"And  then,  behold,  according  to  your  desires,  yea,  even  according  to  your 
faith  shall  it  be  done  unto  you. 

"Keep  my  commandments;" 

REPETITION   JUSTIFIED 

Once  more.    You  know  some  people  complain  about  our  repeating 
ourselves.    Indeed,  the  Savior  is  guilty  of  repeating  himself. 

"hold  your  peace;  appeal  unto  my  spirit; 

"Yea,  cleave  unto  me  with  all  your  heart,  that  you  may  assist  in  bringing 
to  light  those  things  of  which  has  been  spoken — yea,  the  translation  of  my  work;" 

Remember,  they  were  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon  at  that  time. 

"be  patient  until  you  shall  accomplish  it. 

"Behold,  this  is  your  work,  to  keep  my  commandments,  yea,  with  all  your 
might,  mind  and  strength. 

"Seek  not  to  declare  my  word,  but  first  seek  to  obtain  my  word,  and  then 
shall  your  tongue  be  loosed ;  then,  if  you  desire,  you  shall  have  my  Spirit  and  my 
word,  yea,  the  power  of  God  unto  the  convincing  of  men. 

"But  now  hold  your  peace ;  study  my  word  which  hath  gone  forth  among 
the  children  of  men,  and  also  study  my  word  which  shall  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men,  or  that  which  is  now  translating,  yea,  until  you  have  obtained 
all  which  I  shall  grant  unto  the  children  of  men  in  this  generation,  and  then  shall 
all  things  be  added  thereto. 

"Behold,  thou  art  Hyrum,  my  son;  seek  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  all  things 
shall  be  added  according  to  that  which  is  just. 

"Build  upon  my  rock,  which  is  my  gospel ; 

"Deny  not  the  spirit  of  revelation,  nor  the  spirit  of  prophecy,  for  wo  unto 
him  that  denieth  these  things ; 

"Therefore,  treasure  up  in  your  heart  until  the  time  which  is  in  my  wisdom 
that  you  shall  go  forth. 

"Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in  their 
sickle  to  reap." 

Please  remember  that  the  main  reason  why  I  was  impressed  to 
read  this  revelation  was  because  of  these  few  words : 

"Behold,  I  speak  unto  all  who  have  good  desires,  and  have  thrust  in  their 
sickle  to  reap. 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus1  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the  light  of 
the  world. 

"I  am  the  same  who  came  unto  mine  own  and  mine  own  received  me  not; 

"But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  as  many  as1  receive  me,  to  them  will  I 
give  power  to  become  the  sons  of  God,  even  to  them  that  believe  on  my  name. 
Amen." 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  sur- 
rounded." 

Elder  Mark  Austin  offered  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


24  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  at  2  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  that  The  Singing  Mothers 
would  furnish  the  music  for  this  meeting,  and  that  they,  together  with 
the  congregation,  would  sing  as  an  opening  number,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn  the  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  W.  Aird  Macdonald,  President  of  the  San  Francisco  Stake. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  hymn,  "An  Angel  from  on  High," 
duet  part  by  Sisters  Virginia  Freeze  Barker  and  Annette  Richardson 
Dinwoodey. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  sure  that  all  of  you  who  were  here  this  morning  rejoiced  in 
the  blessings  that  came  to  us,  and  I  trust  that  during  the  time  we  are 
together  this  afternoon  that  same  sweet  spirit  may  characterize  what 
may  be  said  and  done. 

I  have  felt  the  absence  of  two  of  the  brethren  who  were  here  at  our 
last  general  conference,  and  I  marvel  how  quickly  we  move  on,  and  how 
soon  those  who  have  served  us  pass  from  our  remembrance.  In  a  few 
short  years  others  occupy  the  posts  of  duty,  and  this  Church  that  was 
organized  in  the  year  1830  goes  forward  year  by  year. 

REJOICES  IN  GROWTH  OF  CHURCH 

"We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost."  I  am  grateful  that  when  the  Gospel 
came  in  this  latter  day  there  were  so  many  who  were  willing  to  cast 
in  their  lot  with  that  unpopular  group.  When  we  think  that  it  is  only 
a  little  over  a  hundred  years  since  this  Church  was  organized,  and  that 
notwithstanding  the  opposition  of  evil  throughout  the  world,  it  has 
continued  to  grow  until  today  it  is  stronger  and  more  potent  for  blessing 
mankind  than  it  has  ever  been,  we  have  cause  for  rejoicing. 

It  is  my  privilege  to  travel  much  in  the  world.  Many  of  my 
associates  are  men  of  other  faiths  or  men  who  have  no  faith,  and  I 
rejoice  in  observing  how  tolerant  and  how  considerate  many  of  these 
people  are  when  I  realize  that  only  a  few  years  ago  it  was  almost  im- 
possible for  us  to  obtain  a  hearing  in  the  larger  centers  of  the  world. 

THE   LORD'S    WORK 

But  this  is  the  Lord's  work.  It  was  his  beloved  Son  who  came 
and  directed  the  organization  of  this   Church.     That  was  not  done 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  25 

because  there  were  not  other  churches;  it  was  not  necessary  be- 
cause there  were  not  people  worshiping  God;  but  it  was  necessary 
in  order  that  the  scriptures  might  be  fulfilled  and  in  order  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  might  be  again  established.  When  I  say  that, 
it  is  not  with  any  unkindness  toward  any  other  faith  or  creed.  I  realize 
that  each  of  us  must  live  his  or  her  individual  life,  and  when  we  think 
of  the  wonderful  people  there  are  throughout  the  world  who  do  not 
know  about  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  have  no  conceptions  of 
the  teachings  of  our  Lord  as  revealed  again  in  this  latter  day,  and  as  we 
see  so  many  of  them  that  are  anxious  to  know  what  to  do,  I  realize 
how  important  and  serious  our  problem  is. 

You  brethren  who  are  sitting  here  today  have  had  conferred  upon 
you  a  sacred  opportunity,  a  sacred  trust.  You  have  received  the  bless- 
ings of  the  holy  Priesthood.  Divine  authority  has  been  conferred  upon 
you,  and  with  that  authority  there  has  come  the  responsibility  of  raising 
your  voice  and  living  your  life  so  that  the  people  of  the  world  may 
know  the  difference  between  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  other 
organizations  of  the  world. 

ALL  HAVE  EQUAL  OPPORTUNITIES  FOR  EXALTATION 

I  find  as  I  travel  about  that  people  are  astonished  when  they  dis- 
cover that  men  of  this  Church  who  attain  prominence,  men  who  have 
been  exalted  in  political  and  business  life,  retain  their  faith.  I  had 
a  man  ask  me  sometime  ago :  "How  is  it  that  people  can  remain  faithful 
in  your  Church  and  still  have  all  of  these  advantages  that  come  in  the 
world?"  He  said:  "In  our  church  this  is  not  the  case.  When  men 
become  prominent  in  civil  life  or  in  business  life  in  most  cases  we  lose 
their  cooperation." 

I  thought  today  as  I  sat  here  looking  at  this  group  of  men  and 
women  who  have  had  unusual  opportunities  for  education,  refinement, 
and  culture,  opportunities  to  serve  in  various  capacities,  that  when 
we  meet  as  we  have  met  today  we  are  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel,  we  have  affection  for  one  another,  and  we  meet 
under  that  influence  that  our  Heavenly  Father  said  should  exist  if  we 
love  our  neighbors  as  ourselves. 

One  of  the  beautiful  things  to  me  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  that  it  brings  us  all  to  a  common  level.  It  is  not  necessary  for  a  man 
to  be  a  president  of  a  stake,  or  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve, 
in  order  to  attain  a  high  place  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  The  humblest 
member  of  the  Church,  if  he  keeps  the  commandments  of  God,  will 
obtain  an  exaltation  just  as  much  as  any  other  man  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom. The  beauty  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  that  it  makes  us  all 
equal  in  as  far  as  we  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  In  as  far  as 
we  observe  to  keep  the  laws  of  the  Church  we  have  equal  opportunities 
for  exaltation.  As  we  develop  faith  and  righteousness  our  light  is 
made  to  shine  as  a  guide  and  blessing  to  those  with  whom  we  mingle. 


26  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

SHOULD  PRAY  FOR  NATION^  LEADERS 

Today  the  world  is  confused.  There  never  has  been  a  time  within 
my  memory  when  there  was  so  much  uncertainty  as  to  what  we  should 
do.  Reference  has  been  made  to  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
that  he  is  the  leader  of  this  nation ;  and  I  am  sure  that  as  members  of 
this  Church  we  ought  to  pray  for  the  President  of  the  United  States. 
We  ought  to  ask  the  Lord  to  inspire  and  bless  him.  iWe  ought  to  pray 
for  those  who  associate  with  him.  We  ought  to  be  what  the  Lord 
would  have  us  be — real  helpers  in  a  great  nation  such  as  the  one  in  which 
we  live. 

RULES   GOVERNING   MEMBERSHIP  IN   CHRIST'S   CHURCH 

Our  Heavenly  Father  has  revealed  to  us  what  his  purposes  are  to- 
ward the  children  of  men.  We  are  expected  to  have  faith,  we  are 
expected  to  repent  of  our  sins,  we  are  expected  to  receive  baptism  of 
the  water  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  Lord  himself  has  prescribed  the 
rules  that  govern  membership  in  this  his  Church.  And  when  I  say 
his  Church,  it  is  not  with  any  discriminating  feeling  against  any  other 
church,  because  I  realize  that  when  all  the  good  men  and  women  in  all 
the  church  organizations  of  the  world — and  there  are  millions  of  them — 
when  they  live  up  to  all  the  light  that  they  now  possess,  and  have  added 
to  that  the  light  and  information  that  God  has  revealed  in  this  latter 
day,  they  too  will  be  glad  to  cast  in  their  lot  with  us — not  because  we 
are  better  men  or  better  women  than  they,  but  because  they  will  desire 
to  walk  in  the  footsteps  of  the  Master  and  desire  to  walk  according 
to  the  pattern  he  has  given  us,  and  follow  the  admonition  he  has  given 
the  children  of  men. 

CHANGE  IN  ATTITUDE  TOWARD  RELIGION 

I  rejoice  in  my  companionship  with  men  and  women  in  the  world 
as  I  go  to  and  fro — I  meet  many  marvelous  characters — and  I  am 
happy  to  observe  in  the  last  few  years  quite  a  change  in  their  attitude 
toward  religion.  Some  of  them  seem  to  have  been  non-religious  in  many 
respects,  but  the  conditions  in  the  last  few  years  have  changed  their 
attitude  and  today  they  are  glad  to  sit  down  and  converse  about  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  and  learn  what  it  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
seem  to  have  that  they  do  not  possess.  I  feel  it  is  only  a  question  of 
time,  if  we  do  our  part,  until  most  of  our  Father's  children  who  are 
in  the  world  and  do  not  now  understand,  will  learn  of  the  truth  and  will 
be  glad  to  be  identified  with  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

THE  CHURCH  ALL-COMPREHENSIVE 

In  order  to  do  that  they  will  not  have  to  give  up  any  good  thing 
they  have  learned  in  the  Methodist  Church,  they  will  not  have  to 
surrender  anything  that  is  good  that  they  have  learned  in  the  Catholic 
Church,  they  will  not  have  to  give  away  or  lose  sight  of  any  blessing 
that  has  come  to  them  from  any  quarter  in  order  to  belong  to  the 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  27 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  is  the  beauty  of  this  work.  To  me  it  is 
all-comprehensive;  when  it  comes  to  that  which  is  good  there  is  not  a 
virtue,  there  is  not  a  desirable  attribute  that  a  human  being  may  attain 
to  that  he  is  not  able  to  enjoy  to  its  fullest  extent  as  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

MUST   LEAVEN    THE    LUMP 

And  so  today,  while  we  assemble  here  comparatively  a  little  handful 
of  our  Father's  children  among  the  great  multitude  of  the  world,  yet  we 
are  the  leaven  that  must  leaven  the  whole  lump,  and  unless  we  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  we  will  not  succeed.  If  the  salt  should  lose  its 
savor,  how  shall  the  great  multitude  of  this  earth  be  salted?  It  is  your 
privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  know  these  things,  and  it  is  our 
privilege  as  members  of  the  Church  to  do  our  full  part  as  the  Lord 
requires  at  our  hands. 

SERVICE  IN  THE  MISSION  FIELD 

There  never  has  been  a  time  for  years  when  there  were  so  few 
missionaries  in  the  world  as  there  are  today,  and  the  world  has  never 
needed  missionaries  more  than  today.  There  are  men  in  this  audience, 
and  they  have  relatives  and  friends  and  members  of  their  families  who 
could  support  them,  who  want  to  be  in  the  mission  field.  You  would  be 
happier,  you  would  be  accomplishing  something  that  would  be  eternal, 
you  would  not  be  wasting  your  time  seeking  for  the  things  that  perish 
if  you  were  serving  in  the  mission  field. 

Only  a  few  years  ago  many  of  my  friends  were  well-to-do,  they  had 
the  necessities  of  life,  and  many  of  the  luxuries,  and  when  it  was 
intimated  that  they  might  go  into  the  mission  field  some  of  them  would 
say :  "I  can  not  leave  my  business,  I  can  not  get  along  if  I  go  off  and 
leave  what  I  have."  But  their  business  has  gone  off  and  left  them. 
The  things  that  they  thought  they  could  not  get  along  without  have 
disappeared  from  their  control,  and  many  of  these  very  men  today  would 
be  happy  if  they  could  go  back  ten  years,  and  if  they  were  then  called  to 
go  into  the  service  of  the  Lord,  they  could  say:  "I  will  adjust  my  affairs, 
I  am  happy  at  the  opportunity  that  is  offered  me  to  be  a  minister  of  life 
and  salvation." 

Our  ministry  is  so  different  in  the  world.  Think  of  our  oppor- 
tunities and  privileges,  to  be  able  to  sit  down  in  the  homes  of  the 
honorable  men  of  the  world  and  teach  them  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ ; 
think  what  it  might  mean  to  sit  down  with  men  who  do  not  possess 
divine  authority,  and  teach  them  the  plan  of  salvation  and  explain  to 
them  the  manner  by  which  they  too  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  divine 
authority  which  you  enjoy. 

OUR  DUTY   TO   OTHERS 

I  feel  that  some  of  us  are  selfish.  We  are  so  glad  to  enjoy  our 
blessings,  we  are  so  happy  to  be  surrounded  by  the  comforts  of  life  and 


28  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

to  ha,ve  the  association  of  the  best  men  and  women  that  can  be  found 
in  the  world,  that  we  forget  our  duty  to  others.  How  happy  we  could 
be  if  we  would  strive  to  be  more  potent  for  good  in  the  world  by  minister- 
ing to  those  who  have  not  yet  understood  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord. 

Many  of  us  have  passed  middle  life,  many  of  us  are  completing 
our  work.  The  Church  needs  missionaries  in  the  field.  Men  who 
understand  the  Gospel  and  who  are  willing  to  give  their  lives  for  it  if 
need  be,  and  when  I  say  we  need  missionaries  I  mean  that  the  world 
needs  them. 

There  never  has  been  a  time  when  there  was  a  better  opportunity 
for  disseminating  the  truth  than  now.  Never  a  time  when  so  many 
homes  would  make  us  welcome.  Never  a  time  when  we  could  lay  up 
treasures  in  heaven  where  moth  and  rust  will  not  corrupt  or  thieves 
break  through  and  steal,  better  than  in  the  year  1933.  Do  not  let  us 
forget  that. 

A  GREAT  BLESSING 

I  feel  that  our  financial  difficulties  will  prove  a  great  blessing 
to  many  of  us.  We  will  become  more  humble,  we  will  draw  nearer  to 
our  Heavenly  Father,  we  will  be  more  willing  to  be  guided  by  his 
influence,  we  will  not  feel  self-sufficient  as  some  of  us  have,  and  in  our 
homes  we  will  know  the  necessity  of  uniting  at  the  altar  of  prayer 
and  invoking  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  upon  us.  By  repenting  of  our 
foolishness  and  reforming  our  lives  we  will  evidence  our  desire  to  be 
real  Latter-day  Saints — real  sons  and  daughters  of  the  living  God. 

OUR    OPPORTUNITIES 

These  are  our  opportunities,  and  they  will  pass  from  many  of  us 
in  the  not  distant  future.  Some  of  us  will  finish  our  work  soon.  We 
do  not  know  when  but  while  the  day  lasts,  while  there  is  yet  time, 
let  us  set  our  houses  in  order  and  renew  our  determination  to  be  worthy 
of  a  heritage  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  It  is  not  always  the  amount  of 
earthly  wealth  that  we  acquire  that  blesses  us,  but  it  is  the  spiritual 
wealth  that  is  a  real  benefit  to  us  year  after  year ;  and  eternally  if  we 
would  be  happy.  We  ought  to  radiate  sunshine  and  make  others  who 
are  less  fortunate  than  ourselves  as  happy  as  possible. 

OUR   DUTY    TO    SERVE 

The  Presidency  of  the  Church  are  burdened  with  tremendous 
responsibility.  I  marvel,  sometimes,  how  they  go  forward  day  after 
day  and  year  after  year,  carrying  their  load.  Let  us  relieve  them  as 
much  as  possible  by  properly  caring  for  our  departments.  I  realize 
that  I  am  talking  to  the  leadership  of  the  Church  today.  I  know  that 
the  majority  of  the  rank  and  file  are  not  here.  A  few  of  them  may 
be  listening  in.  We  and  they  are  all  children  of  the  same  kind  Father 
who  loves  every  one  of  us,  and  he  will  bless  us  in  proportion  to  the 
manner  in  which  we  serve,  not  ourselves,  but  serve  our  fellows. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  29 

We  have  from  time  to  time  conferences  with  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions, we  have  our  great  Priesthood  conventions,  our  annual  conferences, 
our  quarterly  conferences.  The  Lord  has  provided  every  opportunity 
for  us  at  home  to  learn  what  he  would  have  us  do.  If  any  of  us  fail  to 
understand,  it  will  not  be  his  fault. 

Consider  the  welfare  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  world.  What 
of  those  who  are  now  among  the  nations  of  the  earth?  It  has  already 
been  intimated  by  the  President  of  the  Church  that  the  gleaning  time 
has  come,  and  that  those  of  us  who  are  willing  to  go  out  and  help  in 
the  gleaning  will  be  those  who  will  receive  the  blessing. 

Great  and  good  men  in  the  world  are  looking  to  us.  Only  today 
a  brother  from  California  said  to  me  that  he  had  been  talking  with  a 
very  prominent  man  in  another  church  who  has  been  watching  the 
elections  in  the  United  States  of  America,  the  elections  that  are  being 
held  in  the  various  states.  He  said  to  our  brother :  "If  Utah  holds  her 
place  as  she  has  a'  right  to  hold  it,  if  Utah  remains  true  to  the  ideals 
for  which  she  has  been  standing  all  these  years,  it  will  not  be  a  difficult 
thing  for  me  to  join  you,  because  I  know  there  is  something  worthwhile 
there." 

So,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  not  lose  our  opportunities,  let  us  not 
sell  our  birthright  for  a  "mess  of  pottage."  Let  us  say  to  the  Lord, 
"We  are  willing  to  serve,  we  are  willing  to  live,  we  are  anxious  to  be 
exemplars  for  thy  sons  and  daughters  elsewhere,"  not  that  we  may  be 
puffed-up  in  our  own  conceit,  but  in  order  that  good  men  and  good 
women  in  all  the  world,  whose  eyes  are  now  upon  Zion  as  they  have 
never  been  before,  may  not  be  disappointed  in  us,  and  that  we  may 
glorify  the  name  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  that  we  may  magnify  his 
Church,  that  we  may  exemplify  in  our  lives  the  teachings  we  have 
had  from  the  beginning,  and  be  worthy  to  be  called  his  sons  and  daughters 
in  very  deed. 

I  pray  that  we  who  are  here  today  and  that  those  with  whom  we 
may  come  in  contact  in  the  not  distant  future  may  feel  the  influence 
that  the  Lord  is  willing  to  bestow  upon  us  when  we  serve  him  and 
keep  his  commandments. 

GRATEFUL    FOR   BLESSINGS 

I  am  grateful  for  my  position  among  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church,  one  of  the  humblest  of  all.  I  am  grateful  for  their  com- 
panionship. I  know  that  these  men  are  servants  of  the  Lord,  and  I  know 
they  are  seeking  to  bless  mankind.  I  hope  that  not  any  of  you  who  are 
here  will  fail  to  sustain  them,  not  only  by  your  faith  and  prayers  but  if 
they  are  misrepresented  and  their  attitude  misinterpreted,  that  you  may 
be  willing  and  anxious  to  defend  them,  if  need  be,  because  there  is  a 
time  coming  when  they  will  need  your  defense.  The  Adversary  has  not 
forgotten  them,  and  one  of  the  evidences  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  the 
calling  of  these  men  is  that  evil  men  speak  evil  of  them,  and  good  men 
and  good  women  speak  well  of  them. 


30  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 


TESTIMONY 


I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  I  know  that  this  is  the 
Church  of  his  beloved  Son,  restored  to  the  earth  for  the  last  time.  I 
realize  how  serious  the  obligation  is  that  rests  upon  us,  and  in  bearing 
my  testimony  to  you  today,  I  do  so  with  the  feeling  and  desire  that  you 
may  know  as  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  living  Lord.  This  organization  effected  in 
1830  is  for  the  salvation  of  the  human  family.  It  is  the  work  that  God 
intended  the  world  to  be  benefited  and  blessed  by.  He  has  offered  us 
the  privilege  of  carrying  that  blessing  to  others,  and  that  we  may  do  our 
duty  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  feel  very  appreciative,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  of  the  blessing 
that  has  come  to  me,  but  knowing  myself  as  I  do,  I  feel  incapable  and 
unworthy  of  this  blessing. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  From  my  youth 
up  I  have  been  taught  concerning  the  Gospel,  and  while  I  didn't  under- 
stand the  full  import  of  the  Gospel  message  when  I  was  young,  because 
of  the  teachings  of  my  father  and  mother  I  was  able  to  hold  to  the 
Church  and  gradually  find  out  for  myself  about  the  divine  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged  at  the  present  time. 

May  I  say  this,  too:  I  am  very  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father 
that  he  gave  me  such  a  good  mother  and  such  a  good  wife.  Sometimes 
I  think  that  we  men  think  that  we  have  accomplished  great  things  because 
of  ourselves,  but  I  can  bear  testimony  that  the  good  things  that  I  may 
have  in  my  life,  and  the  good  things  that  I  may  have  done,  have  been 
helped  and  encouraged  by  my  mother  and  by  my  wife.  Surely  we  are 
all  grateful  when  we  are  thus  blessed  and  helped  in  our  work. 

My  father  has  been  dead  for  a  number  of  years,  and  President 
Grant  has  been  a  father  to  me.  He  has  been  concerned  in  my  life  and 
my  doings  and  has  made  it  possible  for  me  to  do  many  things  that  perhaps 
I  would  not  have  been  able  to  do  had  it  not  been  for  his  encouragement 
and  blessing.  I  am  grateful  to  these  men  and  women  who  have  helped 
me. 

I  have  been  very  fortunate  in  my  associations  in  a  church  way, 
because  since  my  youth  I  have  known  the  presidents  of  the  Church,  the 
apostles,  and  the  other  leaders  of  the  Church ;  and  they  have  at  all  times 
been  an  inspiration  and  a  blessing  to  me.  The  work  I  have  been  called 
to  do  in  recent  years,  first  as  the  field  man  for  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations,  then  in  the  mission  field,  and  later  in  the  Missionary 
Home,  has  brought  to  me  happiness  and  contentment  of  life,  and  a 
desire  to  be  of  service  to  God.  I  can  think  of  nothing  finer  or  better 
than  to  come  in  contact  with  the  lives  of  young  people,  and  to  be  a  part 


ELDER  JOHN  H.   TAYLOR  31 

of  their  life  in  finding  out  God  and  gaining  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  love  these  my  brethren  and  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  trust 
that  God  will  bless  me,  that  I  may  so  act  that  I  may  have  your  confidence, 
your  love  and  your  blessing,  that  in  my  weakness  I  may  be  able  to  do 
some  good  in  this  the  church  of  God.  I  pray  for  these  blessings  in 
Jesus'  name.    Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  be  with  you 
in  this  splendid  conference,  to  enjoy  the  spirit  of  this  gathering. 

I  was  greatly  impressed  this  morning,  in  the  opening  remarks  of 
President  Grant,  with  the  variety  of  important  quotations  which  he 
read  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  refer  to  and  present  the 
means  of  solving  many  of  the  social,  economic  and  moral  problems 
which  confront  the  world  today.  Those  few  excerpts  which  he  presented, 
of  themselves  form  a  strong  evidence  of  the  divinity  of  that  scripture. 
I  would  like  to  speak  to  you  for  a  few  minutes  this  afternoon  along 
some  lines  that  President  Grant  referred  to  in  those  remarks. 

president  roosevelt's  address 

I  was  reading  just  recently  an  address  delivered  by  President 
Roosevelt,  with  regard  to  t"he  conditions  which  are  prevailing  today  in 
a  social  way  in  this  country.  Among  other  things  President  Roosevelt 
said :  "Social  justice  is  becoming  an  ever-growing  factor  and  influence 
in  almost  every  part  of  the  world."  Again  he  said :  "Humanity  is  moving 
forward  to  the  practical  application  of  the  teachings  of  Christianity, 
as  they  affect  the  individual  lives  of  men  and  women."  Then  further : 
"No  program  of  recovery  can  suddenly  restore  all  our  people  to  self- 
support.  *  *  *  The  longer,  harder  part  still  lies  ahead.  We  must  re- 
double our  efforts  to  care  for  those  who  still  need  relief,  to  prevent  dis- 
integration of  home  life,  and  to  stand  by  the  victims  of  depression  until 
it  is  definitely  past."  Again:  "The  federal  government  cannot  do  the 
whole  job.    Every  community  and  every  state  must  do  their  share." 

extensive  church  relief 

I  am  sure  we  agree  to  these  statements  made  by  the  President  of 
the  United  States,  and  that  the  Church  to  which  we  belong  is  doing  its 
part  in  conformity  with  these  suggestions.  I  think  I  may  state,  without 
question  of  doubt  or  contradiction,  that  this  Church  has  done  more  and 
\s  doing  more,  in  proportion,  for  the  relief  of  those  in  need,  than  any 
other  religious  organization.  I  do  not  think  I  shall  be  challenged  in 
that  statement.  In  the  past  I  believe  the  Church  has  done  proportionately 
more  than  could  reasonably  be  expected  of  it. 


32  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

SOCIAL    JUSTICE 

The  desire  of  the  authorities  of  this  Church  is  for  the  welfare  of  its 
members.  As  has  been  frequently  remarked,  the  effort  is  to  help  men 
and  women  to  help  themselves.  The  business  of  the  Church  is  to  pro- 
mote, in  the  largest  way,  social  justice  for  its  members  and  for  all  man- 
kind. Every  worker  is  entitled  to  the  opportunity  for  reasonable  em- 
ployment at  fair  compensation,  for  leisure  time  for  recreation  and 
study,  and  for  spiritual  development.  Every  wife  and  mother  is  en- 
titled to  proper  consideration  in  the  care  of  her  household  and  to  similar 
opportunities  for  recreation,  intellectual  and  spiritual  progress.  Every 
child  is  likewise  entitled  to  opportunities  for  reasonable  education,  for 
recreation  and  preparation  for  life,  and  to  protection  from  unfair  prac- 
tices. In  like  manner,  each  of  them  has  the  obligation  to  society  at  large 
to  do  his  or  her  part  in  promoting  better  conditions  generally  that  will 
make  for  progress  and  peace.  Under  the  present  disturbed  circumstances 
these  conditions  are  not  being  fully  realized.  But  it  is  even  more  import- 
ant for  us  all  to  cooperate  in  striving  to  bring  such  conditions  about. 
The  teachings  of  the  Gospel  are  the  very  essence  of  social  justice.  To 
the  extent  that  we  observe  them  we  shall  evidence  fair  dealing,  mutual 
helpfulness  and  kindness  to  all. 

COMPARATIVE   ECONOMIC    CONDITIONS 

I  think  the  economic  conditions  throughout  the  Church  are  prob- 
ably not  so  serious  as  they  are  in  other  parts  of  the  country.  In  the 
first  place,  we  are  generally  living  in  less  congested  areas  than  the 
industrial  sections  of  the  country.  We  are,  in  considerable  part,  an 
agricultural  people.  That  is,  we  live  nearer  to  the  soil,  I  think,  in  pro- 
portion, than  most  other  communities.  There  is  probably  greater  equality 
and,  consequently,  less  extreme  poverty  and  less  great  riches,  among  the 
people  of  this  Church,  than  other  communities,  whether  religious  or 
social  organizations.  So  our  problems  may  not  be  quite  so  serious 
Yet  they  are  so  serious  as  to  deserve  the  earnest  consideration  and  effort 
of  every  one  who  has  responsibility  in  this  Church,  and  also  of  every 
member.  Because  this  Church  is  working  as  a  unit  to  promote  the 
welfare  of  all  of  the  people. 

CHURCH  SOCIAL  STANDARDS 

Our  standards,  as  established  by  the  Gospel,  not  only  as  given  by 
the  Savior  and  his  apostles  in  earlier  days,  and  as  taught  by  the  prophets 
in  Israel,  but  through  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  in  these  days,  are 
broader  and  more  important  and  more  definitely  placed  before  us  than 
any  people  have  ever  had.  We  have  the  standards  set  up  for  us  to 
follow,  socially,  morally  and  religiously.  If  we  will  endeavor  to  observe 
those  standards — in  other  words,  if  we  will  learn,  as  has  been  expressed 
here  frequently  today,  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord — we  shall 
grow  in  right  living,  social  justice  and  true  charity.  It  leads,  in  fact, 
to  the  finest  civilization. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.   CANNON  33 

CHRISTIAN    QUALITIES 

In  one  of  the  quotations  from  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  as  con- 
tained in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  President  Grant  called  attention 
to  the  qualities  necessary  for  Gospel  service  among  men.  The  in- 
structions apply  to  us  and  to  all  mankind,  if  we  would  promote  the 
greatest  human  welfare.  These  qualities  are:  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kindness,  godliness,  charity,  humility 
and  diligence.  The  development  of  these  qualities  in  the  lives  of  men 
and  women  comes  as  a  result  of  Gospel  teaching  and  enables  them  to 
apply  the  same  practically  for  the  welfare  of  humanity  as  referred  to 
by  President  Roosevelt. 

If  we  would  apply  in  our  lives  the  teachings  of  the  Savior,  day  by 
day,  as  they  have  been  taught  to  us  through  revelations  from  him  in  these 
days,  our  lives  would  be  most  exemplary  and  influential  among  mankind. 

I  believe  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  a  whole,  are  endeavoring  to  live 
in  accordance  with  these  teachings — to  practically  apply  them,  as  Presi- 
dent Roosevelt  says,  as  they  individually  affect  us — so  that  we  may 
evidence  greater  helpfulness,  equity  and  consideration  for  one  another. 
That,  I  think,  is  the  most  effective  sign  of  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  for 
which  we  are  all  striving.  I  am  sure  that  if  we  keep  constantly  before 
us  the  practical  application  of  the  Golden  Rule,  that  whatsoever  we 
would  that  men  should  do  unto  us,  we  would  do  it  unto  them,  thinking 
beforehand  what  we  would  like  to  have  done  to  us,  and  then  applying 
that  in  our  relations  with  our  fellow  men,  we  shall  increase  in  our  power 
to  do  good  and  to  advance  human  welfare. 

NATIONAL    RECOVERY 

I  believe  we  all  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  President  of  the  United 
States  and  his  administration  are  endeavoring  in  every  possible  way 
to  promote  general  recovery  from  the  depressed  conditions  we  have 
suffered.  As  has  been  stated,  it  cannot  be  immediate.  It  will  require 
time  to  bring  to  pass  the  things  that  are  desirable,  and  to  overcome  the 
economic  stagnation  through  which  we  have  been  struggling  for  the  last 
three  or  four  years.  To  rise  on  the  crest  of  the  wave  which  we  are 
hoping  and  striving  for,  out  of  the  trough  in  which  we  have  been  for 
some  time,  exacts  powerful,  coordinated  efforts.  Progress  must 
necessarily  be  gradual  and  sound.  The  efforts  of  the  administration 
to  coordinate  public  works,  industrial  recovery  plans,  means  of  raising 
farm  commodity  and  other  prices  gradually,  in  ord<;r  to  increase  em- 
ployment and  consequent  purchasing  power,  cannot  all  be  effected 
hastily.  The  plan  conceived  and  the  application  of  the  same  are  tre- 
mendous and  never  previously  undertaken.  There  have  been,  of  course, 
delays  that  have  interfered  with  the  program,  and  have  hindered,  to 
some  extent,  the  upward  advance  which  is  so  greatly  needed.  I  think 
it  is  our  business  to  do  our  part,  and  to  help  to  coordinate,  as  far  as  we 
can,  the  carrying  out  of  the  plan,  so  that  the  unemployed  of  the  nation 
shall  be  able  to  obtain  work  to  maintain  themselves  and  their  families, 


34  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

and  not  to  have  to  be  dependent  upon  public  or  private  charity  or  upon 
federal  relief.  But,  in  the  meantime,  those  in  need  must  be  taken 
care  of.  Therefore,  pending  complete  recovery,  there  is  bound  to  be 
suffering  and  distress,  which  the  people  of  this  nation,  individually  and 
collectively,  must  help  to  avoid  and  overcome. 

COORDINATION  OF  ALL  RELIEF  AGENCIES 

It  is  of  the  utmost  importance  that  there  should  be  even  greater 
efficiency  in  the  coordination  of  relief  by  all  agencies  engaged  in  caring 
for  all  those  who  are  in  need,  including  federal,  state,  county  and  private 
agencies.  Care  must  be  exercised  in  the  system  followed  to  be  sure  that 
no  one  in  need  shall  suffer,  and,  on  the  other  hand,  that  any  who  do  not 
need  help  shall  not  impose  upon  those  who  are  furnishing  relief. 

SELF-SEEKERS  NOT  IN   NEED 

I  was  impressed  with  what  President  Grant  said  with  regard  to 
those  seeking  help  who  do  not  need  it.  It  seems  to  be  a  peculiar  feeling 
or  attitude,  on  the  part  of  many  citizens  of  this  nation,  that  whenever  the 
government  has  anything  to  give  away,  they  are  desirous  of  obtaining 
it,  even  though  they  may  not  actually  need  it,  and  are  able  to  support 
themselves  without.  That  seems  to  me  a  rather  selfish  attitude.  I  think 
that  we  ought  to  strive  to  be  self-supporting,  and,  as  far  as  possible, 
independent  of  help  from  other  sources. 

FAIR  CONSIDERATION  FOR  UNEMPLOYED 

Where  help  is  needed,  those  who  have  the  direction  of  relief  should 
undertake  to  see  that  help  is  extended.  There  should  be  fair  considera- 
tion given  to  every  unemployed  head  of  family,  and  to  every  single 
person.  In  all  of  these  measures  of  relief  that  are  being  undertaken, 
there  should  be  no  desire  to  humiliate  any  individual  who  seeks  em- 
ployment. There  should  be  no  effort  to  force  them  to  use  up  all  their 
resources ;  in  other  words,  to  make  paupers  of  them,  when  they  are  in 
need  of  employment  to  provide  for  themselves  and  their  families.  In 
my  judgment,  those  engaged  in  relief  work  should,  in  their  investigations, 
differentiate  those  requiring  somewhat  permanent  relief  from  those 
who  are  somewhat  temporarily  in  need  of  help.  Certainly  the  latter,  who 
desire  employment,  should  not  be  required  to  sacrifice  all  they  have 
before  they  receive  make-work  or  other  relief.  There  is  danger  in  some 
of  the  relief  work  that  is  being  done,  that  sometimes  there  has  been 
extreme  effort  made  to  require  them  to  go  to  the  very  limit  to  dispose 
of  every  single  thing  that  they  have,  before  they  can  obtain  help  from 
those  who  have  the  relief  in  hand. 

ALL  ABLE-BODIED  TO  WORK  FOR  RELIEF 

Now,  those  who  are  out  of  employment  are  not  entirely  responsible 
for  the  conditions.  They  are  desirous  of  obtaining  ways  and  means 
whereby  they  can  support  themselves  and  their  families.    They  should 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q,  CANNON  35 

be  encouraged  in  that  effort,  without  causing  them  embarrassment.  I 
believe  that  every  able-bodied  person  who  needs  help  should  give  labor 
or  service  for  the  relief  that  is  extended.  The  doing  of  work  in  con- 
sideration for  compensation,  whether  it  be  food  relief  or  cash,  promotes 
independence  of  spirit,  self-respect  and  satisfaction.  Any  other  policy 
is  destructive  of  good  citizenship.  All  should  feel  willing  to  give  that 
effort.    As  far  as  possible,  no  help  should  be  extended  without  it. 

AIM  OF  PUBLIC  WORKS 

There  are  many  desirable  things  that  can  be  done  in  the  various 
communities  which,  with  reasonable  planning,  can  be  of  great  benefit 
to  the  communities.  That  is  one  of  the  great  things  that  is  being 
undertaken  in  connection  with  public  works.  The  projects  must  be 
economically  and  socially  desirable.  They  are  intended  to  help  overcome 
unemployment  and  reduce  relief.  They  are  planned  to  prove  a  stimulus^ 
also,  to  private  industry  throughout  this  whole  nation.  I  want  to  express 
appreciation  for  the  great  thought  on  the  part  of  the  Federal  administra- 
tion in  trying,  by  the  advancing  of  federal  funds,  under  reasonable 
conditions,  to  provide  the  widest  possible  employment  in  the  various 
sections  in  proportion  to  the  needs,  and  thereby  to  provide  the  public 
improvements,  both  self-liquidating  and  otherwise,  that  will  make  for 
the  greatest  welfare  of  the  people.  In  this  connection  may  I  say  that  in 
my  judgment  there  needs  to  be  the  greatest  mutual  consideration  in 
the  relations  between  employers  and  employes.  With  the  codes  being 
established  in  industry  and  the  rates  of  wages  on  public  works,  employes 
will  receive  higher  hourly  wages  but  less  hours  per  week  than  f  ormerly. 
If  industry  is  to  increase  and  purchasing  power  be  strengthened,  tne 
demands  of  labor  must  be  reasonable  and  at  the  same  time  the  employer 
must  be  considerate  and  fair. 

CHURCH  RELIEF  POLICY  NOT  CHANGED 

I  believe- you  appreciate  the  fact  that  the  church  policy  with  regard 
to  relief  is  being  carried  out  as  it  has  been.  In  other  words,  the  Church 
does  not  accept  responsibility  entirely  for  the  relief  of  those  who  are  in 
need.  The  Church  realizes  that,  first  of  all,  the  relatives  of  those  in 
need  should  extend  all  the  help  that  they  can  possibly  do,  and  next  to 
that  the  counties  in  the  various  states  are  responsible  for  the  care  of 
those  in  need.  The  Church  stands  by  to  aid,  and  to  see  that  members 
of  the  Church  shall  not  suffer.  We  cannot,  of  course,  go  beyond  that. 
Especially  does  the  Church  feel  the  responsibility  for  the  faithful, 
devoted  members  who  may  be  in  need.  We  are  endeavoring  to  cooperate 
with  the  various  relief  agencies  in  the  most  effective  way  toward  pro- 
moting improved  conditions. 

GOVERINMENT  RESPONSIBILITY  IN  UNEMPLOYMENT 

In  the  stagnated  conditions  of  private  industry,  it  appears  that 
new  employment  must  be  largely  undertaken  by  the  cities,  counties, 


36  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

states  and  the  Federal  government  until  increased  buying  power  develops 
through  the  policies  being  carried  out  by  the  administration.  Though 
the  Church  is  not  directly  responsible  for  providing  employment,  it  is 
endeavoring  as  far  as  practicable  to  furnish  additional  work  through 
the  wards  and  stakes  and  in  a  general  way. 

CHUCH    RESPONSIBILITY  AND  DESTINY 

I  wish  to  direct  your  attention  to  the  responsibility  of  the  Church 
in  the  fulfilment  of  its  destiny.  The  matter  of  aiding  in  relief  is  only 
one  phase  of  its  responsibility.  Under  normal  economic  conditions 
the  care  of  those  in  need  should  not  be  a  major  part  of  its  responsibilities. 
With  improved  prices,  employment  and  general  business  conditions,  the 
members  of  the  Church,  in  common  with  the  rest  of  the  people  of  this 
nation,  can  through  industry,  patience  and  thrift  gradually  overcome 
the  unfavorable  conditions  in  which  we  find  ourselves.  The  primary 
responsibility  of  the  Church  is  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  throughout 
the  world  for  the  spiritual  and  temporal  welfare  of  mankind.  Also,  the 
great  work  of  salvation  for  the  dead  through  vicarious  ordinances,  and 
for  the  living  through  the  divine  ordinances  connected  therewith,  forms 
an  important  duty.  Likewise,  the  education  in  religious  as  well  as  secular 
subjects,  is  vital  to  the  proper  development  of  all  Church  members.  In 
addition,  the  providing  of  all  necessary  facilities  for  religious  worship 
and  training,  as  well  as  recreational  and  social  activities,  becomes  an 
essential  requirement.  The  result  of  all  this  effort,  in  connection  with 
other  positive  forces  at  work  in  the  world  to  promote  liberty,  truth 
and  righteousness,  will  be  general  peace,  good  will  and  spiritual  progress. 

INITIATIVE  AND   RESOURCEFULNESS 

President  Grant  called  our  attention  this  morning  to  the  divine 
counsel  given  us  in  the  58th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants — 
"It  is  not  meet  that  I  should  command  in  all  things,  for  he  that  is  com- 
pelled in  all  things,  the  same  is  a  slothful  and  not  a  wise  servant ;  where- 
fore, he  receiveth  no  reward.  Verily,  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will, 
and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness ;  for  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they 
shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward."  This  is,  in  effect,  what  we  call 
initiative.  It  is  the  doing  of  that  which  we  ought  to  do,  instead  of 
having  to  be  told.  This  instruction  is  given  us  primarily  with  respect 
to  spiritual  affairs.  The  same  principle  applies  in  our  secular  af- 
fairs. It  is  the  business  of  everyone  of  us  as  individual  Church 
members  to  plan  our  efforts  and  our  lives  in  such  a  way  as  to  promote  the 
interests  of  the  Gospel  in  the  most  extensive  way.  It  is,  likewise,  our 
opportunity  in  our  daily  affairs  to  advance  our  personal  interests  in 
getting  forward  and  in  properly  caring  for  those  dependent  upon  us. 
This  involves  also  the  development  of  resourcefulness — the  ability  neces- 
sary to  meet  unusual  demands  or  needs.     Centuries  ago  a  wise  man 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  37 

declared,  "Seest  thou  a  man  diligent  in  his  business?  He  shall  stand 
before  kings,  he  shall  not  stand  before  mean  men." 

INDUSTRY   AND  SELF-HELP 

It  should  be  the  attitude  of  all  who  join  the  Church  and  those  who 
grow  up  in  it  to  strive  continually  to  give  in  every  way  possible  for  its 
advancement,  rather  than  to  seek  for  support  from  the  Church.  Very 
definite  instructions  have  been  revealed  to  us  regarding  the  importance  of 
industry  and  the  seriousness  of  slothfulness  and  idleness.  There  are, 
of  course,  times  and  conditions  that  may  require  for  some  Church 
members  some  assistance  beyond  their  own  efforts.  But,  generally,  it 
is  expected  that  each  individual  will  develop  the  spirit  and  determination, 
not  only  to  maintain  himself,  but  also  to  give  service  and  financial 
help  for  the  advancement  of  God's  work.  Therein  lies  progress  and 
blessing.  On  the  other  hand,  condemnation  rests  upon  those  who  are 
covetous,  greedy  or  idle,  whether  rich  or  poor. 

A    CONSTRUCTIVE   CHURCH 

This  Church  is  a  constructive  organization,  spiritually  as  well  as 
temporally.  To  achieve  its  great  purposes  justifies  the  cooperative  effort 
of  the  entire  Church  membership  in  the  use  of  their  time,  talents  and 
means.  The  more  universally  and  willingly  the  sacrifice,  the  greater  will 
be  the  achievement,  and  the  finer  the  development  of  the  individual 
members.  As  we  cultivate  the  unselfish  attitude  of  seeking  to  maintain 
ourselves,  and  also  of  aiding  in  the  fulfilment  of  the  destiny  of  this  great 
work,  we  shall  grow  in  that  spiritual  faith  and  power  which  comes  from 
our  eternal  Father. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  help  us  to  grow  in  patience,  helpfulness  and 
kindliness,  which  will  enable  us  to  gain  spiritual  strength;  and  at  the 
same  time  help  us  to  develop  those  standards  of  industry,  initiative  and 
resourcefulness  which  will  enable  us  to  become  independent  in  a  temporal 
way.    I  pray  for  these  blessings,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Holy  art  Thou,"  was  sung  by  Sister  Margaret 
Stewart  Hewlett. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Central  States 

Mission 

I  feel  very  humble,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  occupying  this 
position,  and  I  pray  that  I  may  be  led  to  say  that  which  will  be  best 
for  me  to  say  upon  this  occasion. 

First,  I  want  to  express  my  gratitude  and  appreciation  for  the  fine 
choice  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
have  made  in  the  appointment  of  President  Callis  to  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  of  Brother  Taylor  to  the  Council  of  the  Seventy.  I  have 
known  these  men  a  long  while,  and  I  know  that  they  will  be  welcomed 


38  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

in  all  the  Stakes  where  they  shall  go,  and  that  they  will  be  richly  en- 
dowed as  a  result  of  their  experience  and  their  faith. 

President  Grant  gave  us  a  wonderful  message  this  morning  in  his 
address.  I  was  greatly  impressed  by  that  passage  of  scripture  referred 
to  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  58th  section  (and  I  have  used  it  many 
times  in  the  mission  field)  wherein  the  Lord  says: 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do 
many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteousness; 

"For  the  power  is)  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves.  And 
inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward." 

Agents  unto  themselves !  That  gives  us  to  understand  that  we  have 
the  principle  of  free  agency  in  us.  We  can  do  or  not  do.  We  can  read, 
we  can  work,  or  we  can  neglect  our  work.  The  power  is  within  us. 
The  Lord  appointed  men  to  carry  on  his  work.  He  led  them  in  the  path 
whereby  they  might  gain  a  testimony  and  might  know  and  understand 
his  work;  but  the  freedom  of  choice  is  left  with  his  sons  and  with  his 
daughters. 

There  is  no  place  in  the  world,  nor  an  organization  anywhere  that 
offers  so  much  for  its  membership,  through  the  priesthood  and  through 
its  auxiliaries,  as  does  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Much  responsibility  rests  upon  the  priesthood  quorums,  and  great 
blessings  come  to  them.  Men  who  are  anxious  concerning  their  appoint- 
ment and  the  work  that  is  entrusted  to  them,  who  are  all  the  time 
thinking  about  it,  planning  about  it,  trying  to  bring  about  in  the  best 
possible  way  the  fulfilment  of  their  duties  and  appointments,  will  feel 
greatly  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

There  is  fine  leadership  in  this  Church.  The  men  with  whom  we 
are  associated  all  the  time  are  anxiously  engaged  in  their  work.  They 
labor  earnestly  early  and  late  for  the  establishment  of  Zion,  and  con- 
stantly preach  faith  and  works  and  set  an  example  unto  us  that  all  of 
us  can  profit  by,  if  we  take  advantage  of  the  opportunity  afforded  us. 

There  never  was  a  time  during  my  period  of  service  when  there 
were  better  opportunities  than  now  afforded,  in  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel,  both  at  home  and  abroad.  There  never  was  a  time  when  leader- 
ship was  more  needed  than  now,  in  every  phase  of  man's  existence. 
The  people  are  looking  for  men  to  lead  them.  They  are  disturbed  and 
heartsick  because  of  disappointment.  They  are  not  fed  the  bread  of  life. 
They  don't  understand  it.  They  live  and  they  die  without  any  hope, 
because  they  have  not  had  opportunities  which  will  enable  them  to  receive 
the  blessings  of  God,  our  Father,  that  they  are  entitled  to.  I  feel  that 
it  is  our  duty  to  a  very  great  extent  to  provide  this  spiritual  food. 

As  I  travel  in  the  mission  field,  and  especially  in  the  section  where 
I  live  and  have  lived  for  so  many  years,  I  ask  myself :  Am  I  reaching 
the  men  and  women  with  whom  I  associate,  as  I  know  I  should  do? 
When  I  get  on  the  other  side  can  I  be  justly  accused  of  neglect  ? 

There  isn't  any  question  in  my  mind  but  that,  if  we  could  get  people 
to  thinking,  they  would  revere  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  They 
would  understand  that  we  do  not  worship  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 


ELDER   SAMUEL   0.    BEN N ION  39 

or  the  other  leaders  of  the  Church,  but  that  we  do  honor  these  men.  We 
honor  and  respect  them  because  the  Lord  selected  them  and  placed 
them  in  authority  so  that  the  Gospel  could  be  brought  again  to  the 
children  of  men. 

It  is  in  the  hearts  of  thousands  of  people  to  believe  the  Gospel. 
I  said  there  never  was  a  greater  time  than  now,  and  I  believe  it.  Every- 
where one  goes  there  is  an  opportunity  to  hold  meetings.  Men  could 
go  out  in  the  mission  field  for  a  few  months  at  a  time,  if  not  longer — 
men  who  are  experienced — and  with  very  little  money  could  hold 
meetings  among  the  congregations  of  the  people  of  the  country.  There 
would  be  many  who  would  listen  to  them.  Even  now,  though  we  are 
reaching  only  a  few,  comparatively,  just  a  few  men  and  women,  it  is 
marvelous  the  way  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  growing  in  the  earth. 

The  position  that  we  occupy  is  a  most  worthy  one  and  we  should 
magnify  it.  If  we  could  ourselves  feel  the  importance  of  our  calling; 
if  we  could  feel  that  we  were  called  and  appointed  before  the  foundation 
of  the  earth  was  laid,  as  Alma  the  prophet  said,  if  we  could  feed  and 
feast  more  upon  the  glorious  principles  that  the  Lord  has  revealed,  it 
would  greatly  enrich  our  souls  and  give  us  a  greater  desire  to  do  for  him 
that  which  he  would  have  us  do. 

I  know  full  well  that  we  shall  live  again.  I  know  that  the  Lord 
revealed  all  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  said  he  revealed  to  him.  I  know 
that  when  we  sing,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah," 
that  Jesus  did  anoint  him  a  prophet  and  seer,  and  that  he  blessed  him  to 
open  this  the  last  dispensation,  and  that  "kings  shall  extol  him  and  na- 
tions revere."  This  will  be  brought  more  forcibly  to  the  attention 
of  the  world  from  now  on  than  ever  before. 

When  we  sing,  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah," 
in  our  hearts  and  with  our  voices,  we  do  know  that  the  Lord  did  call 
and  did  reveal  unto  him  the  priesthood,  and  gave  him  the  power  and 
the  right  to  act  in  his  name!  And  nations  do  revere  him  in  all  the 
civilized  world,  where  missionaries  have  gone.  We  find  men  and  women 
everywhere  singing  praises  unto  God  and  revering  that  man  unto  whom 
the  Lord  revealed  himself. 

May  we,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  do  our  part.  My  prayer  and 
heart's  desire  have  always  been  that  we  will  walk  in  the  path  of  rectitude  ; 
that  we  will  follow  our  file  leaders ;  that  we  will  ourselves  study  the 
things  the  Lord  has  revealed ;  that  we  will  take  to  heart  that  which  the 
Lord's  servants  called  to  our  attention  this  morning.  It  came  from 
God.  I  am  a  witness  of  it.  I  bear  testimony  of  it  to  you  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  to  bring  to  you  a  word  from 
the  Northern  States  Mission.  The  Elders  and  Saints  are  well  and  en- 
joying the  spirit  of  the  Gospel.    It  is  interesting  to  note  the  difference 


40  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

in  the  spirit  of  people  as  you  meet  them  in  the  world,  as  you  meet  them 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  missionaries  in  the  mission  field, 
and  as  you  meet  them  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  at  home.  We  who  are 
separated  from  you  notice  the  difference. 

President  Grant  said  this  morning  that  that  person  who  found 
fault  with  him  for  talking  about  the  Word  of  Wisdom  indicated  by  his 
talk  that  he  was  not  faithful  in  keeping  that  law.  I  have  sometimes 
thought  that  people  who  find  fault  with  others,  and  who  criticize  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  also  ward  and  stake  authorities, 
are  simply  using  that  criticism  as  a  camouflage;  that  they  are  trying  to 
raise  a  smoke  screen  to  hide  themselves  by  getting  others  to  turn  their 
attention  to  the  apparent  faults  of  our  brethren. 

I  have  been  taught  since  I  was  a  child  to  pray  for  the  authorities  of 
the  Church,  and  I  think  I  have  always  done  it.  But  recently  my  prayers 
have  changed,  somewhat,  in  that  I  am  now  praying  more  earnestly  that  I 
may  have  the  strength  and  the  power  and  the  wisdom  to  sustain  the  au- 
thorities of  the  Church,  as  well  as  asking  the  Lord  to  bless  them  with  in- 
spiration and  revelation.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  should 
turn  their  attention  more  to  this  particular  phase  of  calling  upon  the  Lord 
for  strength,  that  we,  as  members  of  the  Church,  may  see  to  it,  in  all  that 
we  say  and  in  all  that  we  do,  we  sustain  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood 
which  God  has  given  to  us  in  these  latter  days. 

I  have  but  a  few  moments  to  speak,  and  I  should  like  to  say  some- 
thing about  that  which  you  must  all  be  interested  in,  which  is  happening 
in  Chicago  at  the  present  time.  There  comes  very  forcibly  to  my  mind 
now  the  visit  of  President  B.  H.  Roberts  about  a  month  ago.  He  went 
to  Chicago  to  speak  to  the  World's  Fellowship  of  Faiths.  This  great 
institution  is  in  a  way  the  follower  or  the  outcome  of  the  World's  Parlia- 
ment of  Religions,  which  was  held  forty  years  ago.  It  was  known  to 
the  officials  of  this  organization  that  Brother  Roberts  had  been  in 
Chicago  forty  years  ago,  and  had  not  been  permitted  to  speak  in  the 
general  assembly.  In  the  introduction  that  was  given  to  him  this  fact 
was  referred  to  as  indicative  of  the  change  in  public  opinion.  President 
Roberts  was  honored,  it  seems  to  me,  more  than  any  other  of  the  dis- 
tinguished people  who  spoke  in  the  many  meetings  of  that  organization. 
He  gave  to  the  people  a  message,  in  fact,  two  great  messages.  He 
spoke  of  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and  how  that  peace  might  come  to  the 
world  by  giving  justice,  social  and  economic  justice,  to  all  mankind. 
He  was  powerful  in  his  discourse,  and  there  will  be  written  in  the  books, 
the  records  of  that  great  convention,  as  one  of  the  first  and  foremost 
messages  given,  that  which  was  given  by  Brother  Roberts  during  the 
last  days  of  his  life  here  upon  the  earth. 

I  wish  you  could  go  into  the  booth  and  see  the  exhibit  in  the  Hall  of 
Religions  that  has  be.en  made  by  the  Church  to  which  we  belong,  and 
listen  to  your  young  men  and  young  women  who  are  there  working. 
I  believe  that  there  would  be  many  more  of  the  young  men  and  young 
women  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  desire  to  go  on  missions,  and  be 
willing  to  sacrifice  themselves  in  order  to  go  on  missions,  if  they  could 


ELDER  GEORGE  S.  ROMNEY  41 

feel  the  spirit  of  those  young  men.  There  are  probably  from  three 
thousand  to  five  thousand  people  each  day  who  stop  to  listen  as  they 
give  to  them  the  message.     It  is  a  living  message. 

Our  booth  is  in  the  Hall  of  Religions  where  many  other  religious 
faiths  have  made  exhibits,  and  it  is  outstanding  on  account  of  the  spirit 
of  it.  The  figures  in  the  paintings  and  the  sculpture  work  seem  to  be 
living  individuals — they  look  as  if  they  could  speak.  They  are  out- 
standing. They  are  different.  They  are  symbolical  of  the  work  that 
is  done  in  the  Church.  They  tell  the  story  of  the  work  of  our  Relief 
Society,  our  Sunday  Schools,  our  missionary  work,  our  Young  Men's 
and  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  work;  and  especially  do  they 
depict  most  beautifully  the  ideals  of  the  "Mormon"  home,  as  the  father 
sits  with  the  child  in  his  arms,  and  the  mother  stands  with  her  arm 
over  the  shoulder  of  a  boy  scout. 

These  young  men  who  lecture  almost  continuously  for  twelve  hours 
every  day,  for  the  five  months  of  the  Fair,  are  filled  with  the  spirit  and 
enthusiasm  of  missionary  work,  as  they  deliver  the  great  message  which 
we  have  to  give  to  the  world.  And  I  bear  testimony,  as  Brother  Bennion 
has  done  just  before  me,  that  the  world  is  hungry.  The  people  stop  and 
listen,  and  you  may  go  into  that  booth  any  time  of  the  day,  when  the 
rest  of  the  hall  is  filled  or  when  there  are  but  few  there,  and  there  will 
always  be  a  group  filling  that  booth  of  ours. 

I  wish  that  this  spirit,  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
which  fills  the  hearts  of  your  young  men  and  young  women  in  the 
mission  field,  could  be  in  the  hearts  of  all  of  you  people.  I  believe  it  is 
important  in  the  education  of  every  boy  and  every  girl  that  they  take  a 
mission,  and  know  something  of  missionary  work  as  well  as  something 
of  college  work.  While  I  believe  in  college  work,  I  believe  that  the 
missionary  work  is  the  most  needed  and  the  most  outstanding  experience 
in  a  person's  education. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  and  fill  us  with  the  spirit  of  this  great  work, 
I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  presume  that  in  the  past  forty-one  years  I  have  trained  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  this  tabernacle,  so  they  are  always  somewhat  anxious  as 
to  what  success  I  will  have.  During  this  time  I  have  always  been 
anxious,  having  only  one  desire,  and  that  is,  to  say  .something,  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  would  be  for  my  good  and  for 
your  good.  The  Lord  knows  my  desires  and  will  give  to  me  his  Holy 
Spirit. 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  preach  a  lengthy  discourse.  I  realize  that 
time  is  quite  a  factor  in  a  general  conference  especially,  as  President 
Grant  is  noted  for  wanting  as  many  of  the  brethren  to  speak  as  possible. 

It  might  be  well  to  inform  you  that  I  was  ordained  one  of  the 
Fiist  Council  of  the  Seventy  October  8th,  1892.     When  I  became  a 


42  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

member  of  the  Council  there  were  such  men  as  Seymour  B.  Young, 
Christian  D.  Fjeldsted,  John  Morgan,  Brigham  H.  Roberts  and  George 
Reynolds  who  were  among  the  greatest  missionaries  of  our  day.  I  have 
associated  with  them  a  great  many  years,  and  in  thinking  of  them  since 
Brother  Roberts  passed  away,  I  could  not  help  but  feel  that  they  were 
men  of  God ;  that  no  mistake  was  made ;  that  they  were  called  by  revela- 
tion. All  of  these  brethren  have  gone  home.  I  am  the  only  one 
living  that  was  associated  with  them.  After  the  date  of  my  ordination, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Edward  Stevenson  and  Joseph  !W.  McMurrin  filled 
vacancies  within  about  five  years. 

I  think  there  is  no  man  living  in  the  flesh  that  knew  Elder  Roberts 
any  better  than  I  did.  There  was  an  affection,  a  friendship,  formed  in 
the  missionary  field  that  exceeds  any  love  I  have  ever  known,  outside 
of  my  own  family. 

A  missionary  friend,  Charles  Welch,  called  on  me  yesterday.  He  is 
now  a  patriarch  in  the  Bighorn  stake.  He  was  formerly  a  counselor 
to  the  president  of  the  stake.  He  came  to  my  home  yesterday  to  see  me. 
I  traveled  with  him  one  year  under  Elder  Roberts'  presidency  in  Virginia. 
I  know  of  no  better  man  than  Brother  Charles  Welch.  He  was  a  young- 
man  when  I  was  laboring  with  him  fifty  years  ago,  but  he  told  me  yester- 
day he  is  now  seventy-three  years  old.  Ours  is  a  keen  friendship,  a 
brotherhood  that  will  last  through  life  and  will  continue  in  the  other 
world.  Why  ?  Because  he  never  forsook  me.  He  was  to  be  trusted.  I 
was  sick  and  he  ministered  to  me  and  was  so  kind  and  patient.  I  had 
boils — called  carbuncles,  if  you  know  what  a  carbuncle  is.  I  don't  know 
what  kind  of  boils  Job  had,  but  if  he  had  carbuncles  I  am  in  full  sym- 
pathy for  him.  They  started  on  one  of  my  wrists  and  they  followed 
me  all  the  way  up  and  down.  The  last  one  I  had  was  on  my  knee.  We 
had  reached  Burkes"  Garden  at  that  time,  after  traveling  nearly  one 
thousand  miles  without  purse  and  scrip. 

I  am  trying  to  make  clear  to  you,  if  I  can,  the  friendship  that  we 
Mormon  elders  have  for  one  another.  I  may  not  be  gifted  in  coupling 
together  all  of  those  beautiful  sentiments  and  words,  but  friendship 
of  the  kind  I  am  talking  about  cannot  be  told  in  words.  Brother  Welch 
said  to  me :  "Golden,  I  have  come  six  hundred  miles  to  this  conference, 
and  one  of  my  big  objects  was  to  see  you." 

The  first  time  I  ever  saw  Elder  Roberts  was  either  in  Cincinnati 
or  St.  Louis.  He  had  been  chosen  as  president  of  the  Southern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  John  Morgan.  I  left  for  Chattanooga,  Tennessee, 
with  twenty-seven  elders  assigned  to  the  Southern  States.  There  were 
all  kinds  of  elders  in  the  company — 'farmers,  cowboys,  few  educated — 
a  pretty  hard  looking  crowd,  and  I  was  one  of  that  kind.  The  elders 
preached,  and  talked,  and  sang,  and  advertised  loudly  their  calling  as 
preachers.  I  kept  still  for  once  in  my  life ;  I  hardly  opened  my  mouth. 
I  saw  a  gentleman  get  on  the  train.  I  can  visualize  that  man  now.  I 
didn't  know  who  he  was.  He  knew  we  were  a  band  of  Mormon  elders. 
The  elders  soon  commenced  a  discussion  and  argument  with  the  stranger, 
and  before  he  got  through  they  were  in  grave  doubt  about  their  message 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL  43 

of  salvation.  He  gave  them  a  training  that  they  never  forgot.  That 
man  proved  to  be  President  B.  H.  Roberts. 

On  arriving  at  Chattanooga  I  was  appointed  to  labor  in  Virginia 
with  Elder  Landon  Rich.  I  traveled  for  one  year  under  his  direction. 
President  Roberts  called  me  to  the  office  the  second  year — 1884.  I  slept 
with  him.  I  talked  with  him.  He  trusted  me,  and  I  never  betrayed 
him.  He  confided  in  me,  the  only  time  in  his  life,  about  his  own  affairs, 
his  family,  etc.  We  occupied  one  room — used  as  office  and  sleeping 
quarters.  We  paid  $25.00  a  month  for  rent  and  board.  It  was  hotter  than 
hades  most  of  the  time.  I  was  his  secretary.  He  walked  the  floor  and 
dictated,  and  I  wrote  longhand  volumes  and  stored  away  a  fund  of 
information.  I  was  with  Brother  Roberts  at  the  time  of  the  Kane 
Creek  Massacre,  as  I  was  at  Shady  Grove  and  was  the  first  to  get  the 
information  of  the  killing  of  Elders  Gibbs,  Berry  and  the  Condor  boys, 
and  that  they  were  buried.  I  was  with  Brother  Roberts  when  he  went 
out  into  a  cornfield  to  disguise  as  a  farm  laborer.  We  kneeled  down  and 
prayed,  and  we  discussed  the  matter  and  were  satisfied  that  we  should 
secure  the  bodies.    I  said : 

"Brother  Roberts,  let  me  go.  They  know  you  in  that  section.  You 
have  preached  there.    They  will  kill  you.    Let  me  go." 

He  said,  "No,  I  am  the  president  of  the  mission.  The  Lord  will 
take  care  of  me." 

Eight  members  of  the  First  Council  have  died  since  I  was  ordained 
on  October  8,  1892,  and  there  isn't  one  of  that  number  who  was  so 
close  to  me  as  Brigham  H.  Roberts.  I  never  felt  more  lonely  or  helpless, 
in  a  way,  than  I  do  now.  Brother  Roberts  has  been  my  mentor ;  he  has 
been  my  teacher ;  he  has  been  my  chronicler.  I  was  relieved  of  reading 
the  great  histories;  I  didn't  have  to  read  a  whole  library  searching  for 
information.  What  did  I  have  to  do  ?  When  anything  troubled  me  about 
the  history  of  the  Church  or  scripture,  I  went  to  Brother  Roberts.  He 
had  the  most  wonderful  mind  and  memory  of  any  human  being  I  have 
ever  known,  right  up  to  the  very  last.  A  great  light  has  gone  out  in  my 
life.    I  will  soon  follow. 

I  am  now  what  they  call  the  Senior  President  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy.  It  is  not  altogether  merit.  It  is  just  the  regular  order 
of  things  in  the  Church,  just  as  it  is  with  the  Twelve  Apostles.  I  have 
had  the  tenacity  to  outlive  my  fellow  laborers.  I  have  given  forty-one 
years  of  my  life  whole-heartedly  for  the  Seventies.  The  First  Council 
are  all  presidents  equal  in  authority.  As  much  as  I  honor  and  respect 
Brother  Roberts  I  have  never  felt  inferior  to  him  in  his  presence ;  he  has 
never  made  me  feel  that  way.  He  had  a  greater  intellect,  greater  intelli- 
gence, but  I  have  had  some  gifts  of  my  own,  that  in  a  way  were  equal  to 
his.  I  have  preached  by  his  side  many  times,  and  after  he  got  through 
preaching  I  reached  those  that  he  missed,  so  it  has  been  that  way  during 
all  this  time.  He  often  said  when  in  the  south,  "Our  love  is  akin  to  that  of 
David  and  Jonathan." 

One  other  thing  I  want  you  to  know.  I  am  not  currying  favor; 
I  am  sick  of  such  things.    You  can't  say  anything  in  this  Church  without 


44  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

someone  thinks  you  are  catering  to  somebody.  It's  in  accordance  with 
my  calling  as  senior  president  to  comment  on  the  appointment  of  Elder 
John  H.  Taylor,  who  has  been  chosen  and  sustained  to  fill  the  vacancy 
caused  by  President  Roberts'  death.  We  welcome  John  as  a  member  of 
the  First  Council.  I  knew  him  when  and  about  the  time  he  filled  his 
first  mission.  When  he  filled  his  second  mission  he  was  a  seventy.  We 
were  ransacking  the  whole  Church  for  missionaries,  and  were  not  meet- 
ing with  great  success.  In  conversing  with  me  about  a  mission  he  said  : 
"I  am  ready  to  go."  He  was  appointed  to  labor  in  Belgium.  I  have 
had  due  respect  for  and  confidence  in  his  faith,  loyalty  and  integrity.  I 
respect  him  for  what  he  has  done  and  will  do  in  the  future.  He  is  a 
grandson  of  President  John  Taylor,  and  I  cannot  think  of  a  man  that 
has  sacrificed  more  for  the  Church  than  President  Taylor  did.  It  was 
under  his  presidency  that  I  reported  for  my  first  mission  in  1883.  I 
knew  John  H.  Taylor's  father  very  well,  having  always  been  on  friendly 
terms  with  President  John  Taylor's  family. 

I  represent  in  a  way  my  race  of  people.  I  may  be  of  rugged  in- 
dividualism, but  if  there  is  one  thing  I  am  proud  of  it  is  that  I  am  Heber 
C.  Kimball's  son.  I  want  to  ask  you  people  in  confidence,  don't  you 
think  he  is  entitled  to  a  representative? 

I  want  to  say  another  thing.  jWe  now  have  Brother  Ivins,  Brother 
Bennion,  and  Brother  Taylor  in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.  I 
am  telling  you  straight,  there  are  not  over  thirty  per  cent  of  our  Seventies 
that  are  active,  although  they  are  just  as  active  as  the  rest  of  the  priest- 
hood. What  are  we  going  to  do  about  it  ?  They  will  not  come  to  Us ;  we 
will  have  to  go  to  them.  There  is  the  greatest  opportunity  for  missionary 
work  to  be  done  among  the  quorums  of  Seventy  who  are  or  should  be 
special  witnesses  for  God,  of  any  place  I  know. 

Remember,  I  pray  you,  that  our  Savior  did  not  wait  for  his  chil- 
dren to  come  to  him.  He  went  to  them.  If  they  were  hungry,  he  fed 
them.  If  they  were  sick,  he  healed  them.  If  they  were  in  sorrow,  he 
comforted  them.  If  they  were  ignorant,  he  taught  them.  If  they  were 
distressed,  he  encouraged  them.  If  they  were  burdened  with  sin,  he 
proclaimed  to  them  his  Father's  forgiveness,  if  they  would  repent  and 
sin  no  more. 

There  is  no  greater  responsibility,  requiring  greater  kindness  and 
love  and  patience  and  the  Spirit  of  God,  than  to  go  out  among  the 
Seventies  and  encourage  them  to  do  their  duty.     God  bless  you.    Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  E.  ROWAN,  JR. 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  reminded  of  the  scripture  that  says, 
"Prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man,  but  holy  men  ot 
God  spake  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

I  have  enjoyed  the  conference  immensely  thus  far.  As  I  have 
heard  the  words  as  they  have  come  from  the  prophets  of  the  Lord  I  have 
rejoiced,  and  hope  that  all  Israel  will  heed  these  wonderful  messages. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  ROWAN,  JR.  45 

As  one  who  is  not  a  member  of  the  general  authorities,  may  I 
express  my  feeling  of  gratitude  to  our  heavenly  Father  in  the  selection 
of  these  worthy  men  who  have  been  called  to  help  lead  and  direct  Israel. 
I  believe  that  no  finer  men  could  be  found  in  the  Church,  and  yet  I 
appreciate  that  in  this  Church  we  have  many  mighty,  stalwart  leaders, 
who  are  gifted  and  talented. 

It  has  been  my  pleasure  to  be  acquainted  with  President  Callis  for 
twenty-four  years.  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  sleeping  with  him, 
eating  with  him,  visiting  with  him,  and  enjoying  his  friendship  and 
confidence,  and  have  had  the  pleasure  of  listening  to  him  preach  to  the 
people  in  the  mission  field,  a  rare  privilege. 

I  had  the  opportunity  of  meeting  Brother  Taylor  first  eleven  years 
ago,  when  he  came  into  the  Garfield  Stake  of  Zion,  representing  the 
Mutual  Improvement  Association.  I  think  he  will  remember  the  in- 
troduction. We  met  him  in  Marysvale  with  a  Model  T  Ford  and  took 
him  to  Escalante  where  the  conference  was  toNbe  held.  Some  of  the 
pitches  over  the  mountain  were  eighteen  per  cent  and  the  Ford  could 
hardly  make  the  grade.  Sometimes  it  was  necessary  for  the  passengers 
to  walk  and  Brother  Taylor  had  to  help  push  it  over  the  mountain.  More 
than  that,  we  had  a  baby  girl  called  Rachel,  and  at  times  he  carried 
her  in  his  arms.  He  said :  "Oh,  I  think  Rachel  is  the  finest  name  in  the 
world."  I  thought  of  that  when  he  referred  to  his  kind,  sweet  wife  here 
today.  I  am  sure  the  Saints  in  the  wards  and  stakes  will  be  delighted 
with  these  appointments. 

I  am  happy,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  bring  you  greetings  from  the 
Saints  and  missionaries  in  the  Texas  mission.  Your  sons  and  daughters 
are  well.  They  are  bearing  testimony  to  the  people,  wherever  they  can, 
that  God,  our  Father,  has  spoken  in  this  generation  of  time;  that  no 
greater  mission  has  ever  been  given  to  any  people  than  has  been  com- 
mitted to  us  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Saints,  and  say  to  you  that  they  are 
honest,  God-fearing  people  in  the  main;  that  we  have  had  an  increase 
in  our  numbers  who  have  paid  tithes  and  fast-offerings  this  year ;  that 
our  auxiliary  organizations  are  all  fully  organized,  and  we  are  antici- 
pating increased  activity  this  coming  winter.  We  have  had  considerable 
increase  in  the  activities,  particularly  in  our  genealogical  work.  In 
checking  it  over  the  other  day  I  discovered  an  increase -of  862  per  cent 
in  the  names  that  have  passed  through  the  mission  office  for  the  temples 
this  year.  Really  the  spirit  of  Elijah  is  resting  upon  the  people,  not 
only  those  who  are  members  of  the  Church,  but  the  people  in  general 
seem  to  be  interested  in  finding  out  who  their  ancestors  were.  We  are 
grateful  for  this. 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  great  calling.  I  have 
never  enjoyed  anything  so  much  in  my  life.  I  am  grateful  for  the  testi- 
mony that  I  have  that  Jesus  Christ  is  actually  the  Son  of  the  living  God. 
I  am  grateful  for  my  association  with  these  fine  sons  and  daughters  of 
yours.    I  wish  to  say  to  you  that  they  are  indeed  servants  of  the  true 


46  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

and  the  living  God;  that  they  are  anxious  to  go  forward  and  proclaim 
the  truth,  and  they  are  doing  all  they  can  everywhere  to  preach  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  want  to  read  a  statement  here  that  was  made  by  the  Savior 
during  his  ministry.    He  said : 

"All  things  are  delivered  unto  me  of  my  Father;  and  no  man  knoweth  the 
Son  but  the  Father;  neither  knoweth  any  man  the  Father,  save  the  Son,  and  he 
to  whomsoever  the  Son  will  reveal  him." 

I  am  also  reminded  of  the  fact  that  he  said : 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast  s'ent." 

Here  we  find  that  no  one  can  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that 
God  is  our  eternal  Father,  unless  it  is  revealed  to  him  by  Jesus  Christ. 
When  Jesus  was  about  to  depart  from  this  life  he  said: 

"And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  Comforter,  that 
he  may  abide  with  you  forever." 

"Howbeit  when  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  come,  he  will  guide  you  into  all 
truth :  for  he  shall  not  speak  of  himself ;  but  whatsoever  he  shall  hear,  that  shall 
he  speak:  and  he  will  show  you  things  to  come." 

A  glorious  promise  that  has  been  fulfilled  and  is  being  enjoyed  by 
faithful  Latter-day  Saints  everywhere! 

I  certify  in  words  of  soberness  that  you  who  have  testimonies 
and  have  received  this  revelation  from  Almighty  God,  according  to  that 
which  our  Master  has  said,  have  the  assurance  of  life  eternal. 

May  God  bless  us  all.  May  you  be  able  to  sustain  your  missionary 
sons  and  daughters  in  the  field.  May  you  who  have  sons  and  daughters, 
and  you  who  are  experienced  be  endowed  with  power  from  on  high, 
with  a  determination  to  go  forward  and  help  to  reap,  because  truly  the 
field  is  white,  ready  to  harvest.  May  we  be  sustained  and  profit  by  the 
good  things  we  hear  in  this  conference,  and  support  our  leaders,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

"Unfold  ye  portals,"  an  anthem,  was  sung  by  The  Singing  Mothers, 
after  which  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Heber  C.  Austin. 
Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday,  October  7. 

A  sacred  solo,  "A  poor  wayfaring  man  of  grief,"  was  sung  by 
Elder  Charles  Martin,  immediately  following  the  opening  prayer  First 
Session. 

When  announcing  that  Brother  Martin  would  sing  "A  poor  way- 
faring man  of  grief,"  President  Grant  made  the  following  comment : 

This  hymn  was  sung  twice  in  Carthage  Jail  by  John  Taylor  just 
prior  to  the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  the  Patriarch.  After  having 
sung  it  once  Brother  Taylor  was  asked  by  the  Prophet  to  sing  it  again. 
Brother  Taylor  replied  that  he  did  not  feel  like  singing.  The  Prophet 
requested  him  to  sing  it  once  more  and  suggested  that  he  would  feel 
better  after  doing  so. 

Shortly  after  Brother  Taylor  had  sung  the  hymn  the  second  time 
the  firing  commenced  which  caused  the  death  of  the  Prophet  and  the 
Patriarch,  and  four  bullets  lodged  in  Brother  Taylor's  body. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  7,  at.  10 
o'clock. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Elder  Robert  D.  Young,  President  of  the  Sevier  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

"Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation"  was  sung  by  the  con- 
gregation. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
"Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  thou  shalt  be  saved." 

There  is  nothing  in  the  scriptures  that  is  truer  than  this  saying, 
Believe  on  him  and  thou  shalt  be  saved.  But  when  we  refer  to  belief 
on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  having  faith  in  him,  we  mean  a  living  faith, 
not  a  dead  faith. 

A  living  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  will  secure  salvation  to 
every  soul  that  believes  on  him.  It  doesn't  need  any  qualification,  if  we 
only  have  a  proper  understanding  of  what  is  meant  by  a  living  faith. 
In  order  to  get  a  proper  conception  of  it  it  is  well  to  hark  back  to  that 
primeval  day  that  we  read  of  in  the  revelations  contained  in  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price.  Hark  back  to  that  time  also  that  is  referred  to  in  the 
Bible  when  the  Lord  spake  unto  his  servant  Job,  and  said  unto  him : 

"Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  foundations1  of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou 
hast  understanding. 

"When   the  morning  stars   sang  together,   and  all  the  sons   of   God  shouted 
for  joy?" 

Where  wast  thou,  Job,  and  where  were  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters?  We  were  in  the  spirit  world,  in  the  presence  of  our  Father. 
And  what  was  it  that  we  were  shouting  about  ?  It  was  the  promulgation 
of  the  great  plan  of  life  and  salvation  that  was  made  known  to  the 
children  of  God,  begotten  of  him  in  the  spirit,  before  the  foundations  of 
this  earth  were  laid,  and  consequently  before  we  had  received  these 
bodies  of  flesh  and  bones.  When  we  heard  those  glad  tidings  our  hearts 
were  filled  with  joy.  It  was  a  plan  whereby  we  might  go  on  to  perfec- 
tion. It  involved  the  creation  of  this  world;  it  involved  the  placing 
upon  this  planet  of  our  Father's  children  in  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones. 
It  involved  also  the  fall.  It  involved  a  redemption  from  the  fall.  It 
involved  the  earth-life  experiences  as  the  best  and  only  means  of  edu- 
cating and  preparing  ourselves  to  become  the  children  of  God,  members 
of  His  household,  his  sons  and  daughters  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of 


48  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

God.  That  required  a  stupendous  work  and  it  required  someone  to 
carry  out  the  divine  program,  and  the  question  arose,  'Whom  shall  I 
send?"  And  there  was  one  like  unto  the  Son  of  Man  arose  in  that 
mighty  multitude,  and  said,  "Here  am  I,  send  me.  Thy  will  be  done, 
and  the  glory  be  thine  forever." 

That  was  Jesus  Christ,  the  Lord,  our  Elder  Brother,  the  first 
begotten  of  our  Father  in  the  spirit.  But  there  was  another  one  in 
that  mighty  multitude,  also  a  strong  personality,  a  great  power  among 
our  Father's  children  who  had  been  laboring  to  lead  men  and  women 
away  from  God.  He  did  not  like  the  plan,  for  that  plan  was  one  of 
faith,  one  of  repentance  from  sin,  the  only  means  of  progress.  He 
wanted  none  of  that,  but  he  said,  "Here  am  I,  send  me.  I  will  be  thy 
son,  and  I  will  redeem  all  mankind,  that  one  soul  shall  not  be  lost,  and 
surely  I  will  do  it :  Wherefore  give  me  thine  honor." 

He  was  ambitious  and  he  proposed  compulsion,  which  is  contrary  to 
the  will  of  God.  Free  agency  is  God's  plan.  Men  must  in  the  exercise 
of  their  own  agency  choose  between  good  and  evil  if  they  would  make 
progress. 

When  we  heard  these  glad  tidings  that  were  promulgated  I  tell  you 
we  were  glad.  Our  hearts  were  filled  with  joy  and  gladness  and  we 
shouted  for  joy,  at  the  prospect  of  becoming  like  God  and  dwelling  in 
his  presence  forever.     That  was  what  we  were  shouting  about. 

Well,  God  said,  "I  will  choose  the  first,"  and  Satan  grew  angry,  for 
that  is  who  it  was — Lucifer,  a  son  of  the  morning — Satan,  or  the  devil, 
whatever  you  may  call  him.  He  it  was  who  rebelled  against  God,  and 
he  took  after  him  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven.  So  he  must  have 
been  a  powerful  personality,  leading  men  and  women  away  from  God's 
plan. 

God  said,  "I  will  send  the  first,"  and  Satan  grew  angry  and  rebelled 
against  God.    All  this  we  read  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 

Now  to  accept  of  him  whom  God  did  send  is  faith.  To  reject  him 
whom  God  did  not  send,  but  cast  out  of  heaven,  is  repentance ;  and  so 
when  you  hear  people  say,  "I  do  not  want  to  hear  about  these  first 
principles,  I  know  all  there  is  to  know  about  them,"  I  want  to  tell  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  not  anything  beyond  these  fundamental 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Every  doctrine  of 
the  Church,  every  sermon  that  has  been  preached  from  this  pulpit, 
has  to  do  with  faith  in  God  and  repentance  from  sin.  Every  discourse 
that  has  been  delivered  in  this  conference,  no  matter  by  what  name  it 
may  be  called,  or  what  may  be  the  subject,  is  a  concrete  example  of  these 
fundamental  principles  and  the  application  of  them  to  our  lives. 

These  doctrines  of  faith  in  God  and  repentance  from  sin  are  all- 
inclusive.  That  is  the  kind  of  Gospel  that  we  have  received.  The 
Apostle  Peter  knew  so  well  the  meaning  of  all  this  when  he  declared ; 

"We  have  also  a  more  sure  word  of  prophecy ;  whereunto  ye  do  well  that  ye 
take  heed,  as  unto  a  light  that  shineth  in  a  dark  place,  until  the  day  dawn,  and  the 
day  star  arise  in  your  hearts; 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  49 

"Knowing  this  first,  that  no  prophecy  of  the  scripture  is  of  any  private 
interpretation. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man;  but  holy  men  of 
God  Spake  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost." 

That  is  exactly  the  condition  that  the  Apostles  of  today  proclaim. 
Scripture  comes  not  by  the  will  of  man. 

We  have  been  sustaining  in  this  conference  the  men  whom  God 
has  chosen  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  people  as  prophets,  seers,  and 
revelators,  men  whom  God  has  chosen  to  stand  at  the  head  ot  this 
Church.  We  ofttimes  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 
How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  that  this  Church  is  founded  upon  Apostles 
and  Prophets,  as  the  church  was  in  days  of  old!  To  accept  of  their 
message,  their  counsel,  is  to  have  faith  in  the  word  of  God,  and  living 
faith  manifests  itself  in  the  works  of  obedience,  and  every  work  of 
obedience  is  founded  upon  faith.  Did  we  not  believe  in  God  we  surely 
would  not  believe  in  his  prophets.  If  we  had  no  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  of  course  we  would  not  render  obedience  to  his  Gospel.  But 
because  God  chose  him  to  carry  on  his  great  work  as  the  leader,  his 
Only  Begotten  Son,  he  sent  him  into  the  world,  "For  God  so  loved 
the  world  that  he  gave  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  whosoever  believeth 
in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life."  If  we  believe  on 
him  we  render  obedience  to  his  Gospel  and  live  by  every  word  that  pro- 
ceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God,  whether  God  reveals  his  will 
to  us  directly  or  through  his  constituted  authorities  upon  the  earth, 
his  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  his  servants  who  have  been  chosen 
and  supported  and  sustained  by  his  people.  These  are  the  ones  God 
has  chosen,  and  to  accept  of  their  message  and  their  counsel  is  faith. 

To  keep  the  commandments  of  God  of  course  requires  faith.  The 
keeping  of  the  commandments  means  works  of  obedience,  whereby  we 
demonstrate  whether  our  faith  is  a  living  faith  and  not  a  dead  faith. 
A  dead  faith  has  nothing  to  do  with  our  religion.  We  say  that  faith 
without  works  is  dead.  We  do  not  mean  a  living  faith  without  works 
is  dead.  There  could  not  be  a  living  faith  under  those  conditions. 
Only  a  faith  that  manifests  itself  in  works  of  obedience  has  within  itself 
the  power  of  God  to  the  salvation  of  his  children.  So  faith  is  all- 
inclusive,  and  likewise  repentance  is  all-inclusive,  for  it  has  to  do  with 
everything  that  we  have  to  do  with.  To  reject  him  whom  God  did  not 
send  is  repentance,  and  when  we  speak  of  rejecting  him  we  mean  re- 
jecting his  gospel,  rejecting  his  plan,  rejecting  his  sophistry,  and  his 
arguments,  and  there  are  many  of  them  in  the  world  today,  and  it 
behooves  Latter-day  Saints  to  choose  whom  they  will  follow — Jesus 
Christ  the  Lord  and  his  glorious  Gospel,  or  the  devices  of  the  adversary 
that  lead  us  away  from  God.  Every  sophistry  and  every  sin  and  every 
allurement  of  evil  is  prompted  by  that  evil  one  that  was  cast  out  of 
heaven.  He  is  with  us  here.  He  was  cast  down  and  is  right  here,  not 
in  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones ;  no,  he  did  not  fulfil  his  first  estate,  but  he 
came  just  the  same,  and  we  cannot  see  him  with  our  natural  eyes, 
He  has  no  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  but  he  is  here,  and  we  feel  his  power 


SO  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

and  his  influence,  we  see  it  everywhere  leading  men  and  women  away 
from  the  truth. 

"Resist  the  devil,  and  he  will  flee  from  you.  Draw  nigh  to  God, 
and  he  will  draw  nigh  to  you."  To  resist  the  devil  is  repentance.  To 
draw  nigh  unto  God  is  faith.  Apply  this  to  everything,  to  all  of  our 
actions,  to  everything  that  we  do,  our  merchandising,  our  business  tran- 
sactions, our  farming,  our  pleasures,  our  dancing.  There  is  a  right  way 
and  a  wrong  way  to  do  everything.  When  we  do  it  in  a  right  way  those 
are  the  works  of  obedience,  whereby  we  demonstrate  our  faith.  If  we 
do  it  the  wrong  way  we  are  committing  sin  and  we  are  called  upon  to 
repent.  That  is  the  substance  of  the  Gospel.  It  applies  to  our  politics, 
it  applies  to  every  problem  that  comes  before  us. 

We  have  the  word  of  the  leaders  of  this  people  as  to  what  should 
be  our  course  in  regard  to  certain  political  things.  I  do  not  wish  to 
get  into  any  political  discussion  or  anything  bordering  on  that,  but  let 
me  tell  you  where  good  and  evil  are  involved,  as  they  are  in  the  prohi- 
bition question,  it  devolves  upon  Latter-day  Saints  to  choose  the  right 
and  therefore  manifest  our  faith  in  God  and  reject  the  sophistries  and 
the  false  arguments  of  those  who  are  trying  to  break  down  the  safe- 
guards of  our  Constitution. 

My  time  has  already  expired.  May  God  help  us  to  carry  on  this 
great  work  by  living  in  accordance  with  his  divine  will  as  it  shall  be 
made  manifest  to  us  through  his  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  H'INCKLEY 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

I  am  exceedingly  happy  this  morning.  We  have  just  listened  to 
the  remarks  of  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells.  My  heart  has  thrilled  as  he  has 
spoken  unto  us.  He  was  my  mission  president  in  days  long  ago.  While 
upon  that  mission  the  Lord  sent  unto  me  a  son,  and  it  was  in  the  heart 
ojf  the  mother  of  that  son  to  name  him  "Rulon."  I  loved  this  man  in 
the  days  of  my  younger  manhood.  I  loved  him  for  his  faith,  for  his 
devotion,  for  his  tenderness.  I  love  him  today.  As  I  sat  here  today  and 
looked  up  into  his  face,  heard  his  ringing  testimony,  and  his  declaration 
anew  of  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  of  their  fundamental 
endurance,  and  the  part  they  take  in  every  action  of  our  lives,  I  was  fed. 
God  bless  him  during  his  remaining  days  with  peace  and  all  the  sweetness 
that  he  has  earned. 

Yesterday  was  a  very  great  day  in  my  life.  Everything  seemed 
so  beautiful,  with  the  sun  overhead,  and  though  I  came  up  from  the 
flowery  land  of  California,  as  I  walked  through  these  temple  grounds 
I  took  off  my  hat,  and  I  offered  a  prayer  of  thanksgiving  for  the  peace, 
the  beauty,  and  all  that  surrounds  this  sacred  spot  of  ground.  As  I 
came  into  the  tabernacle  and  I  looked  at  the  hosts  of  people,  my  heart 
thrilled  again.  I  felt  that  I  was  in  tune  with  the  infinite ;  that  I  was 
blessed  more  than  it  was  possible  for  me  to  express. 


ELDER   ALONZO   A.    HINCKLEY  51 

In  the  beginning  of  our  conference  when  the  name  of  Chas.  A. 
Callis  was  read  as  the  man  to  fill  the  place  made  vacant  by  the  passing 
of  Apostle  James  E.  Talmage,  I  was  filled  with  joy  because  I  had  been 
permitted  by  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  to  minister,  as  one  called  and  set 
apart  as  an  ambassador  of  truth,  under  President  Callis.  The  vision 
went  before  my  mind  how  the  thousands  that  have  grown  up  around 
President  Callis  in  this  last  quarter  of  a  century  will  lift  their  hearts 
in  thanksgiving  that  their  great  leader  has  been  called  to  this  high  council 
in  the  Church. 

Oh,  how  my  soul  rejoices  to  know  that  we  live  in  a  day  when  the 
Lord  reveals  his  holy  mind  and  will;  that  we  are  not  left  to  walk  in 
darkness;  that  it  is  our  privilege  to  walk  in  the  light,  and  that  we  can 
with  safety  follow  those  whom  he  has  appointed. 

When  President  Grant,  in  his  opening  address,  read  so  many 
wonderful  things  to  us  from  the  book  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
and  then,  in  answer  to  an  anonymous  communication  requesting  that  he 
should  not  mention  the  [Word  of  Wisdom,  he,  as  the  mouthpiece  of  the 
Lord,  spoke  out  with  courage  words  that  should  find  lodgment  in  the 
hearts  of  all  the  Latter-day  Saints,  my  joy  was  added  to.  He  reaffirmed 
and  confirmed  all  that  he  said  six  months  ago  as  he  opened  that  great 
conference.  At  that  time  we  departed  and  carried  the  word  wherever 
we  went,  as  the  word  of  the  Lord  given  through  his  servant.  He 
renewed  that  same  message  at  this  important  time  in  our  lives,  and 
satisfied  my  soul. 

I  recall  how  President  Grant  stood  here  six  months  ago  and  said 
that  he  had  been  contemplating  the  conditions  that  existed  throughout 
the  world,  and  he  bore  testimony  that  without  the  shadow  of  a  doubt 
in  his  mind,  the  Lord  had  revealed — in  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  that  covered  not  more  than  a  page — the  solution  that 
would  solve  the  perplexing  problems  of  the  world  and  then  proceeded 
to  read  that  great  revelation  and  to  make  his  comments.  He  added 
that  it  was  not  only  for  the  Church  and  for  the  high  priests  and  for 
the  Saints  of  the  last  days,  but  it  was  for  all  the  world,  if  they  would 
listen  and  obey. 

We  went  back  to  the  California  Mission,  and  I  suppose  that  all 
men  in  authority  went  back  to  their  fields  of  labor  and  carried  that 
message  as  we  carried  it  in  California,  to  every  nook  and  corner.  Did 
the  Saints  respond  ?  I  bear  testimony  and  say  yes,  they  did,  and  though 
they  had  beer,  and  though  they  had  light  wines  in  abundance,  throughout 
all  the  territory  covered  by  the  California  Mission,  I  bear  testimony  to 
you  that  the  Saints  have,  in  the  language  of  Brother  Wells,  and  in  the 
language  of  the  Lord,  "chosen  the  Lord,"  they  have  chosen  to  follow 
his  servants.  I  bring  you  word  from  the  thousands  down  there  that  they 
are  temperate,  sober-minded,  faithful,  good  Latter-day  Saints,  that  will 
compare  with  the  good  Latter-day  Saints  up  here  in  these  valleys  of  the 
mountains.  I  know  that  I  speak  with  understanding  when  I  say  that 
they  have  these  qualities  in  them. 

Many  of  them  have  propounded  the  question:  "Brother  Hinckley, 


52  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

now  that  the  states,  one  by  one,  have  voted  as  they  have  on  this  pro- 
hibition question,  will  Utah  vote  as  other  states  have  voted,  or  will  she, 
when  the  world  forsakes  these  standards  and  calls  for  those  things, 
stand  and  be  an  example  unto  the  world?"  All  I  have  been  able  to 
say  is,  "I  hope  so."  What  a  lesson !  Many  come  back  and  ask  of  the 
men  of  the  Church  "How  does  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  stand  on  this  question  ?"  It  stands  for  prohibition.  It  stands 
for  freedom  from  the  use  of  all  these  thing's,  and  for  temperate  lives 
among  all  of  its  people.  The  Lord  has  revealed  that  it  is  not  good  for 
man  to  touch  any  of  these  things. 

Now,  I  say,  to  have  this  counsel  in  our  conference,  renewed  at 
this  time  by  that  great  discourse,  wherein  the  President  of  the  Church, 
after  giving  his  own  testimony,  read  into  that  great  address  the  testi- 
monies of  Hyrum  Smith,  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, Lorenzo  Snow  and  Joseph  F.  Smith,  bringing  down  to  date  the 
testimony  of  the  servants  of  God,  is  a  warning  unto  this  people. 

For  the  Lord  has  declared,  as  I  read — perhaps  I  can  quote  it  ( Doc. 
and  Cov.,  Sec.  1  :l-4)  : 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men ;  yea,  verily  I  say,  hearken  ye  people  from 
afar,  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape 
and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  s'ee,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart 
that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow,  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  housetops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  the  people,  by  the  mouths'  of 
my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days." 

Do  we  have  it  complete?  Is  it  given  unto  us  by  the  mouths  of  his 
disciples  whom  he  has  chosen  in  these  last  days  ?  Yes,  verily  yes ;  and 
the  Lord  says  that  whether  it  is  by  his  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of  his 
servants,  it  is  the  same.  When  they  speak  under  the  influence  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  it  is  scripture ;  it  is  the  will  of  the  Lord ;  it  is  the  voice 
of  the  Lord;  it  is  the  word  of  the  Lord;  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation. 

To  me,  the  warning  is  complete ;  the  vision  is  clear.  I  see  the  way. 
I  feel  to  say,  in  the  language  of  one  of  old,  Joshua :  "As  for  me  and  my 
house,  we  will  serve  the  Lord."  More  than  that,  if  it  were  within  my 
power  to  persuade  all  men  to  forsake  their  evil  ways  and  cleave  unto 
the  Lord,  that  would  make  me  happy  indeed. 

I  should,  of  course,  bear  testimony  of  the  Elders.  Thirty-nine  of 
them  are  all  we  have — the  choicest  of  the  choice — down  in  California. 
To  their  fathers,  their  mothers,  their  friends,  their  bishops,  I  say  they 
are  pure ;  they  are  sweet ;  they  are  wholesome.  They  are  offering  a  con- 
secration unto  the  Lord,  their  time  and  their  talents,  their  very  best 
service.  Twelve  lady  missionaries  likewise ;  all  well,  all  happy,  all  sowing 
the  seeds  of  truth,  witnessing  the  results  of  their  work.  In  these  last 
nine  months  there  have  come  into  the  Church,  through  the  testimony 


ELDER  ALONZO   A.   HINCKLEY  53 

that  has  gone  out  unto  them,  four  hundred  members,  who  declare  that 
to  them  this  is  a  new  world  ! 

I  never  was  happier.  I  know  the  truth.  I  love  it.  I  pray  for  power 
to  live  it  and  to  be  able  to  consecrate  my  life  to  his  service,  henceforth 
and  forever,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regret  to  announce  that  Brother  Richard  R.  Lyman  is  confined  to 
his  bed  on  account  of  illness.  He  is  on  the  high-road  to  "recovery 
however,  for  which  we  are  very  grateful. 

Brother  Charles  H.  Hart  is  also  unable  to  be  with  us  on  account  of 
illness. 

I  have  received  a  message  from  Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe,  which 
I  am  pleased  to  read  to  you,  as  follows: 

"Read  the  history  of  man  down  the  ages.  Always  truth  has  been  compelled 
to  fight  its  way  through  ferocious  opposition.  Over  and  over  again  someone  has 
sealed  truth  with  blood.  Christ,  in  whom  was  only  truth  and  all  truth,  was 
crucified  unto  death. 

Never  was  the  universe  of  untruth  more  deeply  stirred  than  when  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus'  Christ  was  restored  in  this  age — the  beginning  of  the  end  of 
the  reign  of  anti-Christ.  Centuries  of  apostasy  had  built  a  fortress  of  error 
supposedly  impregnable  to  truth.  Hell  raged  at  truth's  venture  into  a  world  claimed 
for  its  own.     Persecution  began,  raged,  and  has  continued  for  a  century. 

truth's  destiny 

Truth's  destiny  is  victory.  It  breaks  down  every  barrier  of  error.  Ultimately 
it  rises  triumphantly  above  its  vanquished  enemy.  After  many  trials  and  much 
tribulation,  slowly,  painfully  it  reaches  its  happy  end.  The  masses  of  men  love 
truth  better  than  error,  but  are  blinded  by  the  clever  presentations  of  the  enemy 
of  truth. 

Just  so,  the  truth  of  the  restored  gospel  is  becoming  understood  in  the  world. 
The  senseless  persecution  of  the  past  is  dying  down.  The  essential  purity  and 
human  value  of  the  Gospel  are  becoming  reoognized. 

THE   DEVIL'S   TRICK 

But,  though  driven  into  a  corner,  the  opposition  remains  active.  It  plays  its 
last  card,  the  devil's  trick.  If  persecution  from  without  is  diminishing,  contention 
within  is  fanned  into  livelier  flame.  Of  the  two  methods  of  destruction — persecu- 
tion by  untruth  or  discord  among  those  who  have  accepted  truth — the  latter  is  the 
deadlier.    An  inward  is1  more  serious  than  an  outward  wound. 

This,  then,  is  the  sober  warning  to  all  Latter-day  Saints : 

Persecution  from  without  is  gradually  vanishing.  For  that  we  are  grateful. 
But,  at  the  same  time,  the  danger  of  jealousy,  strife  and  evil  speaking  among  the 
members  of  the  Church  increases.  Such  internal  persecution  wrecks  the  strongest 
organization,  even  one  founded  in  truth. 

Latter-day  Saints  should  be  forewarned  of  this1  ancient  satanic  trick.  Con- 
tention among  members  of  the  Church  must  be  banished.  Kind  words  must 
replace  evil-speaking  about  fellow  members.  Generous  good-will  must  stifle  jealousy. 
Officers  must  be  accepted,  sustained  and  supported  with  heart  and  hand.  There 
must  be  an  honest  endeavor  to  love  our  brethren  and  sisters  as  well  as  the  Lord 
in  heaven — the  first  law  of  Gospel  living. 


54  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

THE   POWER   OF   LOVE 

Love  begets  love.  Whenever  Latter-day  Saints  live  in  love  together,  their 
armour  and  their  shield,  all  their  weapons  are  of  heavenly  workmanship.  The 
forces  of  evil  flee  in  terror  before  them.  Try  it;  the  results  never  fail.  The 
heart  never  beats  so  warmly  as  under  the  power  of  unselfish  love.  Whoever 
allows  himself  to  cause  contention  in  a  ward  or  branch,  or  to  spread  it,  whatever 
the  means  employed,  plays  into  the  hands  of  Lucifer  and  helps  him  win  victory 
out  of  his  sullen  corner  of  defeat." 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  last  July,  and  within  a  few  days  after  I 
had  been  appointed  to  the  presidency  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission, 
I  had  the  privilege  of  attending  a  conference  held  at  the  Joseph  Smith 
Farm  and  on  the  Hill  Cumorah,  near  Palmyra,  New  York.  It  was  my 
good  fortune,  at  that  time,  to  meet  all  of  the  missionaries  laboring  in 
the  Eastern  States  Mission.  While  I  have  not  had  the  time  since  to 
visit  them  in  the  districts  in  which  they  are  laboring,  I  feel  that  I  can 
say  that  we  are  carrying  on  in  that  part  of  the  Lord's  vineyard,  as  are 
the  missionaries  in  the  other  parts  of  the  world. 

Nearly  a  score  of  newspapers  in  the  immediate  neighborhood  of 
Palmyra  gave  us  much  publicity,  and  reported  in  fairness  and  in  detail 
the  proceedings  of  our  conference,  in  July.  In  fact,  there  were  papers 
in  that  vicinity  that  had  reporters  at  all  of  the  sessions.  This,  you  will 
remember,  is  in  the  vicinity  of  the  birthplace  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  a  joy  to  me  to  think  of  the  favorable 
change  that  has  taken  place  in  the  world  regarding  this  great  Latter-day 
work. 

A  few  days  ago,  in  the  headquarters  of  one  of  the  leading  candi- 
dates who  is  seeking  election  as  mayor  of  the  great  city  of  New  York, 
I  was  told  by  this  candidate — and  he  spoke,  by  the  way,  in  the  presence 
of  fifty  or  more  prominent  men  of  that  city — I  say  he  told  us  at  that 
time  that  he  listened  every  Sunday  morning  to  the  program  broadcast 
by  the  Tabernacle  Choir.  And  then  he  added  to  that  group  of  men : 
"It  is  the  finest  radio  program  given  today,"  and  advised  all  present 
to  listen,  if  they  were  not  already  doing  so. 

I  was  gratified  to  hear  many  of  those  present  say  they  did  listen 
to  the  program  as  broadcast  by  this  great  choir.  I  hope  it  will  be 
some  encouragement  to  Brother  Lund  and  the  members  of  this  great 
musical  organization,  to  know  that  their  efforts  are  appreciated,  and 
that  men  of  standing  in  the  world  appreciate  the  wonderful  music 
which  they  furnish  from  week  to  week.  God  bless  them  in  the  continua- 
tion of  their  great  mission.  They  are  helping  us  vitally  in  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel. 

I  passed  by  one  of  the  large  churches  in  New  York,  a  few  days 
ago,  and  noticed  this  sign :  "He  who  neglects  the  spiritual  is  living,  but 
he  is  only  half  alive."    I  rejoice  to  belong  to  a  church  that  is  not  neglect- 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON  55 

ing  the  spiritual.  In  addition  to  the  great  teachings  of  the  Church 
with  respect  to  the  physical,  the  mental  and  the  moral,  we  lay  great 
stress  upon  the  spiritual.  In  my  humble  judgment,  the  world  needs 
spiritual  food  now  more  than  it  needs  anything  else.  We  can  never  be 
wholly  right  until  we  get  back  to  first  principles,  and  emphasize  again 
and  anew  the  life  taught  by  Christ  and  his  disciples.  If  we  are  looking 
for  heaven  we  can  create  it  here.  The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to 
proclaim  the  new  light  that  has  come  into  the  world  through  the  revela- 
tions of  Jesus  Christ. 

May  I  say  a  word  to  the  young  people,  to  the  young  men  and  women 
who  may  be  present  in  this  congregation  or  who  may  hear  my  voice? 
May  I  say  a  word  also  to  the  teachers  of  the  young  men  and  young 
women  in  this  Church :  Let  us  not  take  the  negative  side  of  life.  Very 
little  good  has  been  really  accomplished  by  men  who  took  that  attitude. 
It  is  the  men  who  assume  the  positive  attitude  in  life  that  accomplish 
worthwhile  things. 

This  is  not  a  day  for  quarrel.  We  have  no  time  for  that.  We  have 
little  if  any  time  for  argument.  This  is  a  day  of  affirmation,  of  procla- 
mation. This  is  the  message  of  the  hour :  God  lives !  He  has  revealed 
himself  anew  in  our  day. 

I  say  to  the  teachers,  and  to  the  young  men  who  may  be  wandering  a 
little,  that  if  you  will  spend  one-half  the  time  looking  for  the  proof 
that  there  is  a  God,  that  it  will  take  you  to  find  proof  that  there  is  none,  you 
will  be  converted  during  the  period.  Why  not  do  it?  You  will  come 
back  to  it  some  day,  and  all  of  the  time  you  are  wandering  in  doubt 
and  questioning  the  existence  of  a  personal  God,  or  the  correctness  of 
this  faith  or  that,  will  have  been  lost. 

Science  is  helping  us  to  be  better  Christians.  Science  is  helping 
us  to  discover  God.  It  is  teaching  us  how  to  cooperate  with  him.  It 
is  teaching  us  how  to  live,  giving  us  better  homes,  better  ways  of  living. 
It  is  affirmative.  It  is  only  man's  interpretation  of  science  that  is 
negative.  There  is  no  disagreement  between  true  science  and  the 
revealed  word  of  God.    "Truth  is  truth,  where'er  'tis  found." 

In  the  moment  that  is  left  to  me  may  I  say  further  that  the  great 
mission  of  the  missionaries,  and  of  the  Church,  for  that  matter,  is  to  give 
a  true  picture  to  the  world  of  the  greatest  revelation  ever  given,  namely, 
the  revelation  concerning  God  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  Much  as  we 
revere  the  Book  of  Mormon,  much  as  we  love  it,  it  is  but  a  witness,  a 
new  witness  of  Christ,  the  God  of  this  land.  It  is  around  him  that  all 
truth  centers.  It  is  to  preach  him  and  him  crucified  that  we  are  spending 
so  much  time  and  energy  in  the  world. 

Much  as  we  love  and  revere  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith,  his  mission 
was  only  to  proclaim  the  Savior  of  the  world — to  preach  Christ  and 
him  crucified.  Much  as  we  respect  the  auxiliary  organizations,  even 
the  organization  of  the  Church  itself,  they  are  all  given  as  helps  in 
government,  to  bring  us  to  Christ.  His  is  the  only  name  given  whereby 
we  must  be  saved. 

Oh,  what  a  wonderful  message  it  is !  'What  joy  this  sweet  sentence 


56  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

gives:  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives."  It  is  the  message  of  the  ages". 
Let  us  proclaim  it,  move  up  and  out,  so  to  speak,  from  any  position  of 
defensiveness  that  we  have  taken  or  may  have  assumed  in  the  past — 
move  out  in  a  great  drive  for  righteousness  and  for  the  salvation  of 
the  souls  of  men.  There  need  be  given  no  apology  for  "Mormonism." 
It  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.     We  are  not  ashamed  to  proclaim  it. 

Thank  God  the  world  is  rapidly  growing  to  know  us  in  our  true  light. 
Everywhere  there  the  hand  of  fellowship  and  of  friendship  is  extended, 
when  men  know  of  it. 

Not  long  ago,  in  one  of  the  cities  of  this  country,  I  spoke  on  the 
great  philosophy  of  life  as  revealed  in  the  Mormon  doctrines  or  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  I  was  delighted  to 
have  a  man  come  up  and  say  to  me:  "I  am  a  graduate  of  a  great 
university.  I  was  brought  up  in  a  religion  that  said,  in  effect,  that  we 
know  not  the  origin  of  life,  so  far  as  the  soul  is  concerned.  It  is  one 
of  the  mysteries  of  God.  I  was  brought  up  in  a  religion  that  taught 
me  that  as  soon  as  we  passed  from  this  mortal  existence  our  destiny  in 
the  hereafter  was  determined  and  we  were  given  our  place  in  the  hereafter, 
and  we  should  remain  there  forever.  It  was  not  until  I  heard  the 
message  of  your  people,  that  I  learned  of  a  great  philosophy  that  explains 
in  a  perfectly  reasonable  way  the  origin  of  the  spirit  of  man  and  that 
points  the  way  to  eternal  progress  and  growth  in  development  throughout 
the  countless  ages  of  eternity."  He  continued :  "I  have  never  seen  or 
heard  of  a  philosophy  that  compares  with  it,  anywhere  in  the  wide 
world,  and  I  have  given  a  great  deal  of  study  to  religion." 

It  is  that  message,  that  great  philosophy,  when  translated  into  life, 
that  constitutes  the  religion  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  With  boldness,  but  in  the  language  of  the  great  Lincoln,  para- 
phrased :  With  charity  toward  all,  with  malice  toward  none,  with  firm- 
ness in  the  right,  as  God  gives  us  to  see  the  right,  let  us  press,  on  in  the 
duties  that  have  come  to  us  in  the  preaching  of  this  Gospel. 

I  have  rejoiced  and  do  rejoice  in  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  I 
pray  that  there  shall  come  into  our  lives,  into  our  souls,  the  true 
message  of  the  hour,  that  we  shall  go  out  from  this  conference  and 
consecrate  our  lives  anew  to  the  building  up  of  the  church  and  kingdom  of 
God,  and  that  in  our  souls  we  shall  sing  gladly  the  hymn: 

"I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear  Lord, 
Over  mountain,  or  plain,  or  sea; 
I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say,  dear  Lord, 
I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

God  bless  us  in  the  discharge  of  our  great  responsibilities  and 
duties,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

At  the  request  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  the  congregation  arose 
and  sang  the  hymn,  "O  say,  What  is  truth  ?" 


ELDER    ANTOINE    R.   IVINS  57 

ELDER  ANTOINE   R.   IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

My  very  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  always  with  trepidation 
that  I  stand  in  this  position.  I  pray  that  while  I  stand  here  this  morning  I 
may  enjoy  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  perhaps  some  word  that  I  may 
drop  may  be  of  comfort  or  blessing  to  you  or  to  me. 

I  have  been  more  than  pleased  with  the  wonderful  spirit  of  this 
conference.  I  bean-  testimony  that  the  things  that  have  been  said  are 
true;  that  they  pertain  to  the  greatest  thing  in  the  world,  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  if  we  will  but  adhere  to  those  principles,  observe 
them,  and  put  them  into  practice  in  our  daily  lives,  we  will  benefit  by  them. 

You  are  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
officers  who  sit  here  upon  the  stand  are  not  the  Church.  They,  of  course, 
are  a  part  of  it ;  they  are  the  guiding  element  in  it,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Spirit  of  God,  but  they  are  not  the  Church.  They  are  only 
people  who  have  been  selected  from  the  great  body  of  the  Church,  to  be 
your  servants,  to  do  the  things  that  God  desires  done  for  your  benefit 
and  for  the  benefit  of  mankind.  Perhaps  none  of  them  occupies  his 
position  through  his  own  solicitations,  and  certain  it  is  that  none  of  them 
pretends  to  any  superhuman  or  unnatural  ability  in  the  guidance  of  these 
affairs.  They  rely  upon  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  just  as  any  member  of 
the  great  body  of  the  Church  would  have  to  do,  when  called  as  men  are 
from  time  to  time  to  these  positions ;  and  it  is  my  testimony  that  they 
do  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

It  seems  to  me  that  any  member  who  begins  to  find  fault  with  the 
things  that  are  done  would  better  first  put  himself  in  this  position 
and  ask  himself  if  he  could  do  better.  It  is  most  certain,  I  think,  that 
almost  without  exception  such  a  person  would  retreat  from  his  position, 
and  would  immediately  fall  in  line  and  sustain  and  uphold  those  iri 
authority.  Now,  unless  the  body  of  the  Church  does  that,  the  leaders 
of  the  Church  are  helpless.  God  himself,  through  revelation,  told  the 
Church  in  early  days  that  his  great  purposes  in  certain  respects  could 
have  been  accomplished  if  the  people  had  sustained  the  leaders. 

Every  man  comes  into  the  world  with  his  free  agency,  and  every 
man  exercises  it:  sometimes  to  his  advancement,  sometimes  to  his 
disadvantage.  Every  man  is  entitled  to  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  direct 
him,  and  if  he  lives  as  he  should,  he  enjoys  it.  If  he  does  not  live  as  he 
should,  he  never  has  its  companionship.  I  am  certain  that  the  body  of 
this  Church,  the  great  majority  of  them  live  so  that  they  enjoy  this  Spirit, 
and  that  they,  with  me,  in  holding  up  their  hands  to  sustain  these  officers, 
mean  just  exactly  what  they  say,  that  they  will  back  up  the  authorities  of 
the  Church  in  the  things  they  do  for  its  benefit  and  blessing. 

I  pray  that  we  may  enjoy,  as  the  days  and  years  advance,  a  greater 
outpouring  of  this  Spirit,  that  we  may  expel  from  our  midst  the  spirit 
of  criticism  and  fault-finding  that  we  are  told  is  extant,  that  it  may  be 
replaced  by  a  spirit  of  love  and  affection  and  esteem,  and  that  under 


58  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

the  influence  of  that  spirit  this  great  organization  may  go  forward  to 
its  natural  and  normal  fruition. 

I  stand  before  you,  as  some  of  the  other  speakers  have  done,  repre- 
senting the  missionary  work  of  this  Church.  We  have  an  obligation. 
You  have  an  obligation.  We  are  your  servants  in  attempting  to  guide 
that  work  in  the  nations  of  the  earth. 

It  is  only  a  few  days  since  I  had  the  pleasure  of  talking  with  a 
young  man  who  had  recently  returned  from  Brother  Sloan's  mission. 
He  said :  "It  is  our  duty  to  warn  the  world,  but  when  can  we  say  that 
the  world  is  warned  ?  Can  we  stand  up  and  preach  a  sermon  to  a  congre- 
gation, and  retire  and  state  that  they  have  been  warned  ?  By  no  means. 
A  man  is  never  warned  until  he  understands  and  appreciates  the  truth 
of  the  message  you  give  him."  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  go  into 
the  world,  and  go  over  and  over  and  over  again  the  same  territory,  en- 
deavoring to  impress  the  people  with  the  truth  of  our  message,  to  bring 
them  to  an  understanding  and  a  knowledge  of  it. 

My  particular  work,  as  you  know,  is  with  a  foreign  people.  They 
are  a  numerous  people  and  it  is  a  great  obligation.  Believing  as  we  do 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  have  a  special  interest  in  the  native  peoples 
of  the  American  continent.  The  other  day  I  made  a  short  census  compu- 
tation, to  see  if  I  could  determine,  perchance,  how  many  of  those  people 
there  are  with  whom  we  would  like  to  make  contact. 

In  the  first  place,  our  immediate  labors  are  limited  to  the  United 
States  of  America,  so  I  was  interested  in  knowing  how  many  of  these 
people  we  have  in  the  United  States.  I  find  that  the  city  of  Los  Angeles 
has  more  than  75,000  Mexican  people  living  in  it  and  its  immediate  neigh- 
borhood. I  find  that  the  state  of  Texas  has  more  than  800,000  people  of 
Mexican  extraction.  I  find  that  in  Arizona  and  New  Mexico  there  are 
large  numbers  of  them,  though  the  number  I  did  not  learn. 

Then  I  went  on  to  figure  the  population  of  Mexico,  Central  and 
South  America.  I  find  that  in  those  nations  there  are  nearly  100,000,000 
people,  and  perhaps  one-fourth  of  them  are  of  almost  pure  Indian  blood, 
with  another  fourth  or  more,  perhaps,  that  we  would  call  mestizos. 
That  figures  a  tremendous  population.  That  figures  a  tremendous  obli- 
gation. When  will  we  ever  be  able  to  warn  50,000,000  people  in  that 
great  expanse  of  territory;  teach  them  the  history  of  their  ancestors; 
bear  testimony  to  them  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  restored; 
bear  testimony  to  them  that  the  Church  of  Christ  has  been  organized 
in  the  earth,  and  that  they  are  to  receive  its  benefits  and  blessings  ? 

This  is  a  tremendous  obligation,  and  now  we  have  just  twenty-four 
young  men  and  women  endeavoring  to  spread  that  truth  among  them, 
aside  from  a  few  of  their  own  blood  who  are  laboring  with  us.  I  say 
that  it  is  a  tremendous  obligation,  and  one  that  only  the  aid  and  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  will  enable  us  to  carry  on  successfully. 

I  would  like  to  see  the  time  come  when  we  could  put  into  the  mission 
field  a  large  force  of  men  and  women  who  would  go  into  these  nations 
and  teach  them  intelligently  the  basic  principles  of  Christianity,  teach 


ELDER    ANTOINE    R.    IVINS  59 

them  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  and  give  them  its  benefits  and 
blessings. 

We  have  as  fine  a  group  of  young  men  and  women  as  exists  in  the 
Church.  I  am  sure  they  are  doing  a  wonderful  work.  They  are  in- 
fatuated with  it.  They  dislike  to  see  the  day  come  when  they  must  be 
released,  but  come  it  must,  especially  now  in  view  of  these  trying  times. 
They  almost  invariably  leave  us  with  tears  in  their  eyes,  and  say  that 
they  would  like  to  stay,  and  will  come  back  at  the  first  opportunity. 

We  are  extremely  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  testimonies  he  has 
given  us  in  this  great  work,  for  the  aid  and  assistance  that  he  gives  to 
his  missionary  emissaries  in  the  field. 

I  was  reading,  the  other  day,  in  a  Spanish  tract  or  pamphlet  that  is 
issued  by  the  Mexican  government,  dealing  with  the  early  history  as 
developed  from  archaeological  studies  of  Mexico.  There  was  a  state- 
ment in  it  which  interested  me  very  greatly.  This  particular  writer  was 
dealing  with  the  religion,  as  they  think  they  have  worked  it  out,  of  these 
early  peoples,  and  of  course  it  carried  him  on  to  a  generalization  of  re- 
ligion. In  it  he  said  that  in  all  peoples  and  among  all  nations  there  are 
only  a  few  who  appreciate  the  abstract  principle  of  Deity,  and  can 
understand  it,  and  because  of  that  the  clergy  necessarily  is  limited  to 
those  very  select  few  who  become  the  priests  of  the  nation ;  and  then  for 
the  people,  the  general  people  not  so  well  indued  with  these  peculiar 
powers,  they  raise  up  idols  for  them  to  worship,  so  that  they  may  have 
some  tangible  vision  of  the  thing  they  worship.  It  appealed  to  me  as  a 
strange  and  peculiar  doctrine,  so  different,  so  far  from  our  philosophy  of 
life,  so  far  from  the  philosophy  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

If  there  is  anything  about  our  religion  that  we  should  appreciate 
it  is  its  tangibility,  it  is  the  fact  that  it  is  a  philosophy  which  man  has 
reached,  and  puerile  as  he  is,  can  understand.  It  is  that,  perhaps,  that 
makes  it  so  popular  with  the  people,  that  gives  them  the  great  and 
satisfying  enthusiasm  for  it.  It  is  that  which  gives  me  comfort,  the  fact 
that  I  seem  able  to  understand  it ;  that  I  do  not  have  to  go  to  a  select  few 
for  interpretation  of  its  meaning,  because  the  Gospel,  after  all,  is  only 
the  plan  that  God  laid  down  for  the  sojourn  of  man  in  the  earth,  in  the 
short  time  that  he  should  spend  here,  to  gain  the  experiences  and  ad- 
vantages of  mortality.  It  has  to  be  simple,  because  it  is  just  that  plan, 
the  plan  of  life,  and  if  it  were  not  simple  we  would  not  be  able  to  benefit 
by  it. 

I  trust  that  God  will  give  us  his  Spirit,  that  we  may  understand 
the  Gospel,  that  we  may  live  it,  that  it  may  be  the  vitalizing  element  of 
our  life,  that  it  will  give  us  the  comfort,  the  peace  and  the  joy  that  we 
should  enjoy  through  the  companionship  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

I  pray  his  blessings  upon  us,  that  he  may  guide  us  constantly, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 


60  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Yesterday,  as  I  left  this  building  at  the  close  of  the  morning  meeting 
I  overheard  a  conversation  between  two  brethren,  and  one  of  them  said  : 

"If  any  one  has  been  in  doubt  as1  to  what  he  ought  to  do  he  should  know  it  now." 

I  have  been  thinking  of  that.  It  seems  to  me  that  any  member  of 
this  Church  who  is  doing  his  duty,  who  loves  the  Lord,  and  who  en- 
deavors to  keep  his  commandments,  who  has  the  spirit  of  prayer  and 
faith  and  in  humility  is  seeking  to  know  the  truth,  ought  not  to  be  in 
doubt,  especially  in  regard  to  questions  that  have  constantly  been  before 
us. 

EVERY  MAN  WILL  KNOW  THE  LORD 

I  hope  and  pray  for  the  time  to  come  speedily,  the  time  which  has 
been  spoken  of  by  the  prophet  Jeremiah,  when  every  man  will  know 
the  Lord,  when  it  will  not  be  necessary  for  a  man  to  teach  his  neighbor, 
saying,  "Know  the  Lord,"  for  they  will  know  him  from  the  least  of 
them  to  the  greatest  of  them.  That  time  will  come,  but  it  seems  from 
conditions  today  that  it  is  a  long  way  off.  It  may  not  be,  but  when  it 
does  come  it  will  be  because  the  love  of  truth  is  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  because  they  seek  righteousness  and  have  the  inspiration  which 
they  are  entitled  to  receive  through  obedience,  for  the  guidance  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  promised  unto  all  those  who  will  be  faithful  and  true. 

THE  MEANING  OF  INTELLIGENCE 

We  very  frequently  quote  from  one  of  the  revelations  the  words 
of  the  Lord  to  this  effect,  that  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,"  and 
I  wonder  if  we  ourselves  really  comprehend  what  it  means.  We  stop 
in  the  middle  of  a  sentence.  That  is  not  the  end  of  the  sentence,  for 
the  Lord  says,  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  or  in  other  words 
light  and  truth."  And  then  he  adds  that  "light  and  truth  forsaketh  that 
evil  one." 

When  we  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  we  have  intelligence — light 
and  truth — as  we  have  been  singing,  "O  say,  what  is  truth  ?"  It  is  pure 
intelligence,  if  you  please,  and  he  who  has  it  has  the  power  to  discern 
between  right  and  wrong,  truth  and  error,  and  he  will  follow  righteous- 
ness. 

DUTY   TO   RAISE   THE   WARNING   VOICE 

I  rejoice  in  what  has  been  said  in  this  conference.  I  regret  that 
any  man  if  he  claims  membership  in  this  Church  would  presume  to  close 
the  mouth  of  the  President  of  the  Church.  I  feel  that  it  is  our  duty  to 
warn  when  we  see  dangers,  and  when  we  discover  that  there  are  members 
of  the  Church  who  do  not  seem  to  understand  what  course  they  should 
take.  We  have  a  perfect  right  to  direct  them.  That  is  our  duty.  We 
would  not  be  doing  our  duty  at  this  conference  if  we  did  not  do  it. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  61 

Let  me  read  these  words  from  the  Lord  to  the  prophet  Ezekiel : 

"Son  of  man,  I  have  made  thee  a  watchman  unto  the  house  of  Israel :  therefore 
hear  the  word  at  my  mouth,  and  give  them  warning  from  me. 

"When  I  say  unto  the  wicked,  Thou  shalt  surely  die ;  and  thou  givest  him  not 
warning,  nor  speakest  to  warn  the  wicked  from  his  wicked  way,  to  save  his  life; 
the  same  wicked  man  shall  die  in  his1  iniquity ;  but  his  blood  will  I  require  at  thine 
hand. 

"Yet  if  thou  warn  the  wicked,  and  he  turn  not  from  his  wickedness,  nor  from 
his  wicked  way,  he  shall  die  in  his  iniquity;  but  thou  hast  delivered  thy  soul. 

"Again,  when  a  righteous  man  doth  turn  from  his  righteousness,  and  commit 
iniquity,  and  I  lay  a  stumbling  block  before  him,  he  shall  die;  because  thou  hast 
not  given  him  warning,  he  shall  die  in  his1  sin,  and  his  righteousness  which  he 
hath  done  shall  not  be  remembered ;  but  his  blood  will  I  require  at  thine  hand. 

"Nevertheless,  if  thou  warn  the  rightecus  man,  that  the  righteous  sin 
not,  and  he  doth  not  sin,  he  shall  surely  live,  because  he  is  warned ;  also  thou  hast 
delivered  thy  soul." 

That  is  our  duty.  When  we  see  evil  lurking,  when  we  see  dangers 
confronting  the  people,  and  especially  the  Latter-day  Saints,  it  is  our 
duty  to  raise  the  warning  voice,  and  not  only  in  behalf  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  to  warn  all  people,  for  our  mission  is  one  that  is  world-wide, 
and  we  should  warn  all  men  and  give  them  the  opportunity  of  repentance, 
of  serving  the  Lord  and  keeping  his  commandments  if  they  will.  If 
they  will  not,  then  we  have  saved  our  souls.  We  are  clear  from  the  blood 
of  this  generation.     That  is  our  duty. 

THE  WORDS  OF  ISAIAH 

Now  I  would  like  to  read  a  few  more  words,  from  the  prophet 
Isaiah,  but  I  am  going  to  read  them  as  we  find  them  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  First  let  me  say  that  the  verses  that  I  have  just  read  are  in 
the  third  chapter  of  Ezekiel.  That  is  easy  to  remember.  President 
Grant  said  yesterday  that  if  you  put  the  sixth  of  April  and  the  sixth 
of  October  together,  you  have  66.  This  that  I  have  read  is  found  in  the 
third  chapter  of  Ezekiel.  If  you  put  three  and  three  together  you  have 
thirty-three,  and  there  you  find  it  again,  in  the  thirty-third  chapter  of 
Ezekiel.  I  want  to  read  these  words  also  given  by  the  Lord  through 
the  prophet  Isaiah  which  have  a  bearing  upon  the  very  day  in  which 
we  live : 

"Wo  unto  them  that  rise  up  early  in  the  morning  that  they  may  follow  strong 
drink,  that  continue  until  night,  and  wine  inflame  them ! 

"And  the  harp,  and  the  viol,  the  tabret,  and  pipe,  and  wine  are  in  their  feasts ; 
but  they  regard  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  neither  consider  the  operation  of  his  hands. 

"Therefore,  my  people  are  gone  into  captivity,  because  they  have  no  knowledge  ; 
and  their  honorable  men  are  famished,  and  their  multitude  dried  up  with  thirst. 

"Therefore,  hell  hath  enlarged  herself,  and  opened  her  mouth  without  measure  ; 
and  their  glory,  and  their  multitude,  and  their  pomp,  and  he  that  rejoiceth  shall 
descend  into  it. 

"And  the  mean  man  shall  be  brought  down,  and  the  mighty  man  shall  be 
humbled,  and  the  eyes  of  the  lofty  shall  be  humbled. 

"But  the  Lord  of  Hosts  shall  be  exalted  in  judgment,  and  God  that  is 
holy  shall  be  sanctified  in  righteousness. 

"Then  shall  the  lambs  feed  after  their  manner,  and  the  waste  places  of  the 
fat  ones  shall  strangers  eat. 


62  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

"Wo  unto  them  that  draw  iniquity  with  cords  of  vanity,  and  sin  as  it  were 
with  a  cart  rope; 

"That  say :  Let  him  make  speed,  hasten  his  work,  that  we  may  see  it ;  and  let 
the  counsel  of  the  Holy  One  of  Israel  draw  nigh  and  come,  that  we  may  know  it. 

"Wo  unto  them  that  call  evil  good,  and  good  evil,  that  put  darkness  for  light, 
and  light  for  darkness,  that  put  bitter  for  sweet,  and  sweet  for  bitter ! 

"Wo  unto  the  wise  in  their  own  eyes  and  prudent  in  their  own  sight ! 

"Wo  unto  the  mighty  to  drink  wine,  and  the  men  of  strength  to  mingle  strong 
drink ; 

"Who  justify  the  wicked  for  reward,  and  take  away  the  righteousness  of  the 
righteous  from  him ! 

"Therefore,  as  the  fire  devoureth  the  stubble,  and  the  flame  consumeth  the 
chaff,  their  root  shall  be  rottenness,  and  their  blossoms  shall  go  up  as  dust ;  because 
they  have  cast  away  the  law  of  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  and  despised  the  word  of  the 
Holy  One  of  Israel." 

THE  CONDITION  OF  THE  WORLD  TODAY 

I  say  that  has  reference  to  our  day.  It  has  reference  to  any  day. 
We  may  apply  it  in  our  lives  and  in  our  times.  This  is  the  condition 
of  the  world  today.  They  have  turned  from  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  they 
have  despised  his  law,  they  have  turned  unto  iniquity.  He  has  spoken 
unto  them.  He  would,  if  they  would  listen,  direct  them  in  righteousness 
and  in  truth.  He  would  give  unto  them  his  judgment,  his  statutes,  his 
guidance,  and  lead  them  in  paths  of  truth,  but  they  will  not.  Men  love 
darkness  today  rather  than  light,  just  as  they  did  in  the  days  of  our 
Redeemer.  They  are  blinded  against  truth  and  righteousness.  They 
seek  it  not.     Our  mission  is  to  proclaim  it. 

SUCCESS  DEPENDENT  UPON  ATTITUDE  OF  SAINTS 

What  a  wonderful  thing  it  would  be,  what  a  power,  if  the  members 
of  this  Church  would  stand  unitedly  as  one  man  for  the  truth !  What  a 
glorious  thing  it  would  be  if  we  could  say,  it  is  not  necessary  for  a  man 
to  teach  his  neighbor  to  know  God,  because  every  one  among  us,  from 
the  greatest  unto  the  least,  knows  him !  If  we  could  say  that  even  as 
members  of  this  Church,  what  a  power  it  would  be.  I  am  as  satisfied  as 
I  am  that  I  am  here  that  there  is  an  influence  that  radiates  not  only  from 
the  individual  but  from  the  Church.  I  believe  that  our  success  in  the 
world  depends  largely  upon  the  attitude  of  the  Saints.  If  we  were 
united  wholly,  in  thought,  in  deed,  in  our  actions ;  if  we  loved  the  word 
of  truth,  if  we  walked  in  it  as  the  Lord  would  have  us  do,  then  there 
would  radiate  from  this  community,  from  the  bodies  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  in  all  of  these  communities,  out  into  all  the  world,  an  influence 
that  would  be  irresistible.  More  honest  men  and  women  would  be 
converted,  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  would  go  before  us  to  prepare  the 
way.  As  it  is  when  we  find  those  among  us  who  do  not  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord — there  is  a  thread,  if  you  please,  that  has  been 
running  through  this  conference — if  they,  this  people,  would  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord  it  would  be  a  force  and  a  power  and  influence 
that  would  break  down  opposition  and  would  prepare  people  to  receive 
the  light  of  the  everlasting  Gospel;  and  when  we  fail  to  do  it  we  take 
upon  ourselves  a  responsibility  that  is  dreadful  in  its  consequences. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  63 

OUR   RESPONSIBILITY 

How  will  I  feel,  or  you,  when  called  before  the  judgment  seat  if 
someone  shall  point  his  finger  at  me  or  you  and  say  that  "if  it  had  not 
been  for  the  actions  of  this  man  or  this  group  I  would  have  received  the 
truth,  but  I  was  blinded  because  they,  professing  to  have  the  light,  did 
not  live  it." 

May  the  Lord  lead  and  direct  us  in  righteousness,  and  help  us  to 
walk  before  him  as  he  would  have  us  walk  in  the  light.  Let  us  uphold 
and  sustain  the  man  who  has  the  right  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
not  only  to  the  Church  but  to  the  whole  world,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 
Elder  Joseph  Anderson  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  the  opening  hymn,  "We  thank 
thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet,"  which  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 

Elder  Horace  Ray  Pond,  President  of  the  Benson  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

Sister  Judith  Anderson  Beard  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "How  beautiful 
upon  the  mountains." 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  should  like  to  take  a  little  of  the  precious  time  of  this  conference 
to  advocate  patience.  I  regard  patience  as  one  of  the  finest  of  all  the 
Christian  virtues.  It  contemplates  sympathy,  charity,  forbearance,  sus- 
pension of  judgment,  and  perhaps  most  of  all,  the  ability  to  wait. 

Perhaps  it  was  never  harder  to  be  patient  than  it  is  at  the  present 
time,  and  yet  I  think  we  have  never  been  under  the  necessity  of  exer- 
cising patience  more  than  now. 

SYMPATHY  FOR  UNEMPLOYED 

I  have  very  deep  sympathy  for  men  and  women  who  bear  the  chief 
burden  of  the  depression ;  for  those  who  are  out  of  employment,  who 
have  long  been  without  work,  who  see  their  families  in  want ;  who  find, 
perhaps,  their  own  self-respect  slipping  because  they  have  been  forced 
to  accept  of  charity.    I  entertain  great  pity  for  them,  I  sympathize  with 


64  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

them.  I  am  well  aware  of  the  fact  that  it  is  a  very  difficult  thing,  as 
they  undergo  these  privations  and  wait  month  after  month,  year  after 
year,  for  an  improvement  in  conditions,  to  hold  their  patience,  but  I 
bid  them  do  so. 

EXPERIMENTAL  POLICIES 

We  are  now  called  upon  to  support  what  purports  to  be  a  very 
comprehensive  program  for  recovery.  It  is  a  complex  program.  In 
many  respects  it  is  an  experiment,  acknowledged  so  to  be.  Those  who 
are  students  of  our  governmental  history  recognize  the  fact  that  in  it 
there  have  been  and  are  wide  departures  from  established  policies,  some 
of  which  seem  to  contravene  the  very  fundamental  tenets  of  our  gov- 
ernmental faith.  I  freely  acknowledge  that  as  I  hear  criticisms  of  this 
character  directed  toward  some  of  the  policies  that  are  sought  to  be 
carried  out,  I  find  it  difficult,  if  not  impossible,  to  answer,  in  terms  of 
our  .old  principles  and  procedure,  the  objections  that  are  urged.  Never- 
theless, for  a  while,  I  feel  constrained,  by  very  force  of  all  the  circum- 
stances, to  be  patient  for  the  outcome  of  these  experimental  policies. 

A   FAIR   TRIAL   URGED 

I  feel  that  constraint  because,  while  I  may  have  objections  and 
criticisms,  I  have  nothing  constructive  to  offer  in  lieu  of  these  poli- 
cies. I  think  that  many  a  man  who  gives  himself  over  to  criti- 
cism of  the  program  which  is  now  being  projected  for  the  recovery 
of  the  nation  will  discover,  when  he  frankly  asks  himself  the  question, 
what  would  he  do  instead,  that  he  is  without  a  substitute  program. 

Now,  I  am  not  opposed  to  criticism  of  the  right  kind.  I  think  that 
it  is  a  very  definite  and  a  very  essential  part  of  the  whole  theory  of  a 
democracy,  that  there  should  be  open  opportunity  for  criticism.  But 
I  do  think  that  in  times  of  great  stress,  when  the  very  nation  itself  is 
languishing  for  want  of  something  constructive  to  lift  itself  out  of 
unheard-of  conditions,  it  behooves  the  citizens  of  our  country  to  be 
patient,  and  to  give  to  a  program  projected  by  our  government  a  fair 
opportunity.  After  all,  the  best  way  to  demonstrate  the  worthiness  or 
the  unworthiness  of  any  policy  is  to  give  it  a  fair  trial,  and  the  quicker 
any  projected  policy  may  have  a  fair  trial,  the  sooner  will  its  adaptability 
be  determined. 

I  feel  very  much  assured  of  one  thing,  and  that  is  this :  that  unless 
we  give  to  our  government  our  united  support,  our  patient  support,  we 
are  going  to  be  thrown  into  the  throes  of  more  confusion  than  that  which 
we  now  suffer. 

SUBSCRIBE  TO  SPIRIT  AND  CONFORM   TO  REQUIREMENTS 

So  I  appeal  for  patience.  Let  us  discover,  by  cooperation  and 
support,  what  may  come  of  these  programs.  For  one,  I  do  not  doubt 
good  intention  as  the  premise.  Many  of  the  policies  are  fraught  with 
innumerable  difficulties.  I  have  had  experience  enough  to  know  that 
it  is  not  an  easy  thing  to  revamp  a  business  to  conform  with  the  require- 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  65 

merits  of  N.  R.  A.  But  I  take  it  that  the  chief  thing  to  be  conserved, 
after  all,  is  the  spirit  of  the  movement,  and  while  there  may  be  some 
technical  difficulties  encountered,  by  which  an  absolute  compliance  be- 
comes almost  impossible,  I  take  it  that  there  is  no  one  who  cannot,  if 
he  will,  subscribe  to  the  spirit  and  conform  as  nearly  as  may  be  to  the 
letter  of  the  requirements.  I  don't  have  very  much  respect  for  the  one 
who  pretends  to  conform  to  this  program,  and  secures  the  Blue  Eagle 
to  adorn  his  establishment  to  avoid  stigma  and  criticism,  and  then  ignores 
the  provisions  and  the  intent  and  the  spirit  of  the  Act.  To  my  thinking, 
that  is  deceit  unwarranted. 

Brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church,  we  cannot  be  Latter-day  Saints 
without  being  honest,  honest  with  ourselves,  honest  with  our  neighbors, 
honest  with  our  country,  honest  with  God.  No  manner  of  deception  may 
be  practiced  by  a  man  without  robbing  him  of  the  fundamental  spirit 
and  genius  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

APPEALS  FOR  SUPPORT  FOR  LEADERS 

Now,  I  need  not  say  more  to  indicate  what  I  think  should  be  the 
attitude  of  our  people,  as  citizens  of  the  Republic,  toward  the  policies 
inaugurated  by  our  government.  It  is  true  that  we  may  entertain  some 
different  views,  and  we  have  the  right  to  our  opinion,  the  right  to  the 
expression  of  it,  but  in  an  emergency  an  army  follows  its  commander. 
I  submit  to  you  as  to  whether  or  not  we  are  in  an  emergency,  and  I  appeal 
for  support  for  our  leaders  in  this  great  crisis. 

We  of  the  Church  believe  in  sustaining  government.  Wherever 
our  people  are  located,  they  are  admonished  to  support,  not  only  the 
form  of  government  under  which  they  live,  but  those  who  preside  over 
them,  kings,  rulers  and  potentates.    It  is  a  part  of  our  creed. 

SUSTAINS    GOVERNMENTAL    AGENCIES 

Not  infrequently,  of  late,  I  have  been  asked  by  rather  critical 
people:  "Does  the  Church  believe  in  the  capitalistic  system?"  Some 
have  thought  that  we  ought  to  set  ourselves  against  the  established 
economic  system  of  the  country  in  which  we  live.  My  answer  has 
always  been :  "The  Church  has  no  economic  creed  that  it  advocates  for 
the  country.  It  is  true  that  it  does  have  a  conception  of  one  that  may 
be  initiated  in  the  fold  of  Christ,  when  preparation  is  made  for  it,  but 
it  sustains  the  governmental  agencies  that  are  set  up  where  it  exists, 
where  its  members  reside." 

PLEADS   FOR  PATIENCE 

I  think  we  need  to  be  patient  in  other  affairs.  I  believe  we  need  to 
be  patient  with  each  other,  as  fellow  members  of  the  Church.  We  need 
to  be  patient  with  youth.  We  need  to  be  patient  end  sympathetically 
suspend  our  judgment  of  others,  unless  perchance  we  are  commissioned 
to  judge  and  under  that  commission  are  obliged  to  exercise  a  delegated 
prerogative.     We  have  been  told  to  judge  not,  that  we  should  not  be 


66  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

judged.  We  have  been  told  to  forgive.  We  are  taught  the  principle 
of  repentance.  We  know  that  every  one  is  frail.  We  know  that  we 
all  commit  sins,  either  of  commission  or  omission.  None  of  us  stands 
perfect,  and  we  need,  as  our  President  said  in  his  opening  remarks,  to 
be  forbearing  and  kindly  disposed,  and  to  see  our  own  faults,  and  attempt 
to  remedy  them. 

I  sum  it  up  under  the  caption  of  "Patience,"  and  I  plead  for  that 
divine  quality  to  be  manifest  in  the  hearts  and  attitudes  and  actions 
of  the  Saints. 

DEPARTED  AUTHORITIES  AND  THEIR  SUCCESSORS 

I  cannot  refrain  from  just  one  comment  with  reference  to  the  good 
men  who  have  passed  from  mortality  since  our  last  conference  meeting, 
and  those  who  have  succeeded  them.  I  loved  Brother  James  E.  Talmage. 
I  sat  next  to  him  for  seventeen  years  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
I  have  been  blessed  many  times  by  the  extent  of  his  knowledge.  I  have 
been  inspired  by  his  diligence  and  his  labors.  I  feel  that  he  has  made 
an  inestimable  contribution  to  the  advancement  of  God's  work,  and 
that  Brother  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  too,  has  done  a  monumental  work, 
especially  in  his  defense  of  the  faith,  and  in  his  voluminous  writings 
for  the  cause. 

I  feel  sure  that  the  right  men  have  been  chosen  to  succeed  these 
men.  I  love  Brother  Callis.  I  have  been  in  the  mission  field  with  him. 
I  have  seen  the  spirit  that  he  carries  with  him  in  his  work.  I  have 
wondered  how  the  people  of  the  Southern  States,  over  whom  he  presided 
for  so  many  years,  can  find  another  father  to  take  his  place.  They  have 
depended  on  him,  accepted  his  advice  and  counsel,  and  were  ever  en- 
couraged by  his  wonderful  discourses  and  his  kindly  treatment. 

THE  DEVOTION  AND  TESTIMONY  OF  WILLARD  RICHARDS 

Brother  John  H.  Taylor  is  a  boyhood  friend  of  mine.  I  don't 
know  whether  I  ought  to  say  it  or  not,  but  I  feel  disposed  to  say  that  I 
have  never  been  able  to  explain  my  own  inclusion  among  the  general 
authorities  of  the  Church,  except  on  the  ground  that  my  grandfather, 
Willard  Richards,  offered  his  life  for  this  work.  He  was  an  intimate 
friend  and  associate  of  the  Prophet.  I  know  that  he  meant  what  he 
said  when  he  offered  to  die  for  him.  I  know  that  he  was  true  to  him. 
I  can  think  only  that  I  came  to  the  position  that  I  now  occupy  because 
his  good,  loyal  blood  coursed  in  my  own  veins. 

My  grandfather  and  Brother  Taylor's  grandfather  were  together 
in  Carthage,  with  the  Prophet  and  the  Patriarch.  I  have  felt  very 
close  to  Brother  John.  I  have  felt  that  by  inheritance  we  had  a  kinship, 
a  comradeship,  and  I  rejoice  highly  to  know  that  I  am  now  privileged  to 
associate  with  him  in  the  councils  of  the  Church. 

I  know  that  this  is  God's  work.  My  grandfather  knew  it.  He  left 
his  testimony  to  me  of  it,  and  I  know  that  when  he  gave  his  record  that 
Joseph  was  a  true  prophet,  that  he  did  not  lie.     The  testimony  that  I 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  67 

have  from  him,  sustaining  the  knowledge  that  has  come  into  my  heart, 
makes  me  to  say :  I  know  that  Joseph  is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God. 
I  want  to  live  worthy  of  his  association.  I  should  be  gratified  beyond 
measure  if  I  could  only  come  back  into  his  presence  and  receive  a  word 
of  commendation  from  him  for  my  humble  participation  in  the  cause 
which  he  was  instrumental  in  setting  up. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  had  the  pleasure  yesterday  of  bringing  to  the  afternoon  services 
of  this  conference  Miss  Thelma  Cazalet  of  London.  Miss  Cazalet  is  a 
member  of  the  English  Parliament,  and  is  in  America  studying  the 
economic  and  social  conditions  of  the  country.  It  is  gratifying  to  know 
that  in  her  itinerary  she  included  Salt  Lake  City.  Upon  her  arrival 
here,  she  called  on  me  and  presented  a  letter  of  introduction  from  Mr. 
William  Teeling,  one  of  England's  most  prominent  newspaper  men. 
I  had  the  pleasure  of  entertaining  Mr.  Teeling  two  years  ago,  and  he 
seemed  to  have  enjoyed  seeing  this  marvelous  building,  and  listening 
to  its  great  organ.     His  letter  to  me  concerning  Miss  Cazalet  reads : 

"If  you  remember  the  time  that  I  visited  you  in  Salt  Lake  City,  you  will 
recall  that  we  went  to  the  Tabernacle ;  and  then  you  were  kind  enough  to  take 
me  to  meet  President  Grant  and  his  counselors.  I  wonder  if  you  will  allow  me 
to  introduce  to  you  Miss  Thelma  Cazalet  of  the  British  Parliament.  Miss 
Cazalet  is  very  much  interested  in  the  s'ocial  life  of  the  United  States,  and  expects 
to  go  to  Utah  to  find  out  Something  about  the  Mormon  people,  how  they  interpret 
life,  and  what  they  are  doing  -  for  the  social  uplift  of  humanity  through  their 
marvelous  organization.  I  would  be  very  glad  if  you  will  call  on  Mr.  Smoot, 
and  have  Miss  Cazalet  meet  the  distinguished  senator,  for  she  wishes  to  interview 
him  on  the  economic  conditions  of  America." 

The  rest  of  the  letter  is  personal,  so  I  will  not  quote  it. 

I  had  the  pleasure  of  escorting  Miss  Cazalet  about  the  city,  and 
calling  on  Senator  Smoot.  I  am  very  happy  to  tell  you  the  gracious 
compliment  Miss  Cazalet  paid  Senator  Smoot,  for  she  said  that  the  Eng- 
lish people  and  members  of  Parliament  regard  him  as  one  of  America's 
greatest  citizens,  and  a  man  who  more  than  any  other  American  under- 
stands the  economic  and  financial  problems  of  the  world.  This  gracious 
compliment  paid  the  Senator  I  shall  not  forget;  I  appreciate  it  from 
the  bottom  of  my  heart. 

A  great  many  tourists  come  to  Utah,  and  pay  high  tribute  to  the 
work  of  our  people.  They  see  something  here  that  is  delivering  man- 
kind from  bondage,  and  bringing  liberty.  Such  a  revival  is  not  the  work 
of  man,  but  the  work  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  Miss  Cazalet  looked  into 
your  faces  and  noted  your  honesty;  your  sincerity  of  life.  "There  is 
something  about  the  people  here  that  is  impressive,"  she  remarked  in 
words  that  to  me  were  graciously  given. 

Miss  Cazalet  is  a  friend  of  Susan  Ertz,  who  also  visited  Utah 


68  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

something  over  a  year  ago.  I  had  the  pleasure  of  taking  Miss  Ertz  about 
the  city  and  bringing  her  to  this  building  where  she  heard  an  organ 
recital.  It  was  an  impressive  hour.  Miss  Ertz  has  written  a  great  novel 
based  on  the  trek  of  the  Mormon  pioneers  to  the  far  West.  In  her 
story  the  hardships  and  sorrows  of  the  people  are  clearly  portrayed; 
and  she  tells  of  the  great  truths  of  colonizing  the  West,  and  pays  high 
tribute  to  the  pioneers  of  this  State. 

It  is  only  recently  that  the  noted  Austrian  writer,  Walter  Eidlitzs 
completed  his  two  volume  work  entitled  ZODIAC.  I  think  the  novel 
bids  fair  to  obtain  the  Nobel  prize  for  literature  this  year.  Herr 
Eidlitz  came  to  Utah  from  Vienna,  Austria,  because  he  had  been  told 
by  one  Ann  Litisch  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  seemed  to  have  a  power 
far  beyond  anything  she  had  ever  experienced  in  her  life.  Here  Herr 
Eidlitz  would  be  able  to  find  the  power  and  light  that  the  world  needs, 
namely,  the  priesthood  of  God.  Herr  Eidlitz  was  in  our  home  for  two 
weeks  investigating  the  truths  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord, 
and  he  was  greatly  impressed  with  our  testimony  that  the  holy  priesthood 
of  God  had  been  restored  to  earth. 

I  think  that  all  people  who  accept  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord  are  the 
intelligent  ones  of  the  world.  It  is  true  that  we  bring  from  Europe 
and  other  parts  of  the  world  the  poor  in  material  things,  but  not  the 
poor  in  spiritual  gifts.  We  have  brought  from  Scandinavia,  Germany, 
England,  Italy,  France,  and  other  nations  those  who  have  humble  faith 
in  the  Savior.  It  is  only  such  who  can  understand  the  Gospel.  They, 
like  the  Apostle  Paul,  find  power  in  faith;  a  faith  that  produces  and 
works  itself  out  in  a  life  of  love.  They  learn  like  the  rest  of  us  that 
true  faith  gives  all ;  and  in  return  receives  all.  This  is  what  was  meant 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  when  he  wrote  these  words  which  are 
found  in  the  eighty-eighth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  a 
book  which  I  wish  we  would  read  more  in  our  homes : 

"For  intelligence  cleaveth  unto  intelligence ;  wisdom  receiveth  wisdom ;  truth 
embraceth  truth ;  virtue  loveth  virtue ;  light  cleaveth  unto  light ;  mercy  hath 
compassion  on  mercy  and  claimeth  her  own;  justice  continueth  its  course  and 
claimeth  its  own;  judgment  goeth  before  the  face  of  him  who  sitteth  upon  the 
throne  and  governeth  and  executeth  all  things1." 

A  few  months  ago  I  brought  into  this  building  Dr.  Murai,  one 
of  the  distinguished  educators  of  Japan.  He  was  greatly  interested  in 
the  architectural  beauties  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  the  radiancy  of  the 
interior.  It  all  looked  so  beautiful  that  day.  On  his  return  to  Japan, 
he  wrote  me  some  of  his  impressions  as  to  what  the  Gospel  means,  and 
among  the  many  good  things  he  said  were  these : 

"To  follow  Jesus  Christ  means :  First  to  be  a  child  toward  God.  This  is 
trust  and  faith  in  our  Maker.  We  must  be  servants,  and  serve  with  spiritual 
grace  and  power  our  God.  Then  the  next  thing  is  to  be  sovereigns  over  ourselves, 
which  means  self-control.  Think  of  thes'e  words :  Faith,  Service,  Self-control. 
What  a  lovely  lesson !  Religion  after  all  is  a  holy  synthesis  of  all  that  is  true 
and  beautiful." 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  69 

I  am  thankful  that  this  noble  old  building  in  which  we  are  sitting 
this  afternoon  inspires  such  thoughts  in  the  hearts  of  men.  Through 
many  channels  of  thought,  I  firmly  believe  that  mankind  is  coming  to 
a  better  understanding  of  life  and  its  meaning ;  I  think  the  world  is  moving 
toward  Christ.    It  was  the  prophet  Malachi  who  wrote : 

"For  from  the  rising  of  the  sun  even  unto  the  going  down  of  the  same  my 
name  shall  be  great  among  the  Gentiles;  and  in  every  place  incense  shall  be 
offered  unto  my  name,  and  a  pure  offering." 

Our  call  as  members  of  the  Church  and  as  men  holding  the  Priest- 
hood of  God,  is  to  go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel.  It  is 
a  sacred  thing  given  us  to  do.  To  be  effective  in  this  we  must  go  forth 
with  pure  hearts  and  contrite  spirits ;  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of 
God.  Our  spirits  must  be  clean :  and  with  pure  hearts,  which  will  enable 
us  to  see  and  understand  the  ways  of  truth,  we  will  become  the  standard 
bearers  of  that  divine  Will  which  ultimately  will  establish  the  glorious 
Kingdom  of  God  on  earth.  So  in  the  midst  of  this  practical  world,  we 
shall  have  to  exhibit  a  practical  life  of  love :  a  busy  life  of  helpfulness ; 
feeding  the  hungry,  receiving  the  stranger,  clothing  the  naked,  visiting  the 
sick  and  sorrowful.  In  this  period  of  stress  and  tribulation,  sorrow 
and  pain,  trouble  and  care,  there  is  a  deep  and  lasting  lesson  to  be 
learned.  It  is  the  lesson  that  no  one  can  live  without  God  in  his  life. 
The  Apostle  Paul  wrote  to  the  Philippians :  "Unto  you  it  is  given  in  the 
behalf  of  Christ,  not  only  to  believe  on  him,  but  also  to  suffer  for  his 
sake."  Be  encouraged,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Your  lives  will  be 
filled  with  greater  visions  and  dreams ;  your  days  will  yet  be  golden. 
Remember  what  an  apostle  of  old  said  to  the  Romans : 

"Be  kindly  affectioned  one  to  another  with  brotherly  love;  in  honor  preferring 
one  another; 

Not  slothful  in  business ;  fervent  in  Spirit ;  serving  the  Lord ; 

Rejoicing    in    hope;    patient    in    tribulation;    continuing    instant    in    prayer; 

Distributing  to  the  necessity  of  saints;  given  to  hospitality." 

When  we  have  given  heart  and  soul  and  life  to  God,  we  need  not 
worry  about  the  things  that  may  happen  tomorrow.  The  courage  of 
faith  will  be  our  attitude  of  mind  that  will  bring  peace  today.  There 
is  Light  today  in  the  world.  It  is  a  greater  and  more  radiant  light  than 
ever  before  in  all  history.  This  light  is  the  Truth  of  God  as  revealed 
by  the  Father.  Remember  what  the  first  historian  wrote  in  the  Holy 
Scriptures : 

"In  the  beginning,  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth. 
And  the  earth  was  without  form  and  void ;  and  darkness  was  on  the  face  of 
the  deep.    And  the  Spirit  of  God  moved  on  the  face  of  the  waters. 
And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light :  and  there  was  light." 

Then  we  are  told  in  words  that  ring  with  the  greatest  and  most 
divine  truth  of  all :  "God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image 
of  God  created  he  him." 


70  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

God  bless  us  every  one.     May  our  love  increase;  may  our  fiaith  in 
God  deepen,  I  ask  in  Jesus  name.    Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  right." 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

Sunday,  following  the  funeral  service  of  President  Roberts,  I 
returned  to  my  home  hoping  to  find  a  subject  I  might  use  if  called  upon 
during  this  conference.  Long  ago  I  learned  that  when  disturbed  I 
might  go  to  the  Lord  in  the  spirit  of  prayer,  and  receive  comfort.  Before 
leaving  my  room  I  had  prepared  some  notes,  for  the  purpose  of  re- 
freshing my  memory.  Yesterday  morning,  during  the  speech  given 
by  President  Grant,  I  felt  my  notes  perhaps  would  be  useless.  By  the 
time  he  had  finished  his  address  to  us  I  was  convinced  the  Lord  had 
heard  and  answered  my  prayer. 

The  proceedings  of  this  conference,  thus  far,  have  given  me  en- 
couragement. I  shall  read  the  notes  I  made  at  that  time,  for  they  are  a 
witness  to  me  that  the  Lord  does  hear  and  answer  prayers. 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people  of  my  church,  saith  the  voice  of  him  who  dwells  on 
high,  and  whose  eyes  are  upon  all  men ;  yea,  verily  I  say :  Hearken  ye  people 
from  afar ;  and  ye  that  are  upon  the  islands  of  the  sea,  listen  together. 

"For  verily  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  men,  and  there  is  none  to  escape ; 
and  there  is  no  eye  that  shall  not  see,  neither  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  neither  heart 
that  shall  not  be  penetrated. 

"And  the  rebellious  shall  be  pierced  with  much  sorrow;  for  their  iniquities 
shall  be  spoken  upon  the  house  tops,  and  their  secret  acts  shall  be  revealed. 

"And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  mouths  of  my 
disciples  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days. 

"And  they  shall  go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I  the  Lord  have 
commanded  them. 

"Behold,  this  is  mine  authority,  and  the  authority  of  my  servants,  and  my 
preface  unto  the  book  of  my  commandments,  which  I  have  given  them  to  publish 
unto  you,  O  inhabitants  of  the  earth. 

"Wherefore,  fear  and  tremble,  O  ye  people,  for  what  I  the  Lord  have  decreed 
in  them  shall  be  fulfilled. 

"And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  they  who  go  forth,  bearing  these  tidings  unto 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to  them  is  power  given  to  seal  both  on  earth  and  in 
heaven,  the  unbelieving  and  rebellious; 

"Yea,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto  the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall  be 
poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without  measure — 

"Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall  come  to  recompense  unto  every  man 
according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to  every  man  according  to  the  measure  which 
he  has  measured  to  his  fellow  man. 

"Wherefore  the  voice  of  the  Lord  is  unto  the  ends  of  the  earth,  that  all  that 
will  hear  may  hear."  (Doc.  and  Cov.,  Sec.  1) 

These  are  the  words  of  the  Lord  given  to  his  prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
It  seems  to  me  that  conditions  of  the  world  are  such  today  that  this 
warning  is  timely  and  very  appropriate.  While  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  increasing  in  numbers,  both  as  to  members, 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  71 

and  participation  in  church  activities  provided  for  their  spiritual  and 
temporal  welfare,  there  is  yet  much  to  be  accomplished.  From  a  care- 
ful study  of  the  records  it  appears  to  me  that  there  is  a  broad  field  for 
missionary  work  which  now  is  being  worked  in  only  a  haphazard  manner, 
although  we  have  the  machinery  set  up  the  spiritual  energy  does  not 
appear  to  be  sufficient  to  cause  it  to  operate  to  the  fullest  extent. 

Are  we  devoting  our  time  to  a  study  of  the  theories  of  men  alone  ? 
Theories  of  men  may  or  may  not  be  based  upon  truth.  The  revealed 
word  of  our  Father  is  the  truth  and  can  be  proven  by  each  individual  for 
himself.  To  obtain  such  truth  one  must  so  live  that  he  comes  in  harmony 
with  the  principles  of  truth  as  laid  down  in  the  teachings  of  our  Lord 
and  Savior;  this  seldom  comes  through  opposition  thereto.  One  who 
makes  a  practice  of  profaning  the  name  of  Deity  cannot  approach  him 
in  the  spirit  of  truth  for  he  has  said:  "Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name 
of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain ;  for  the  Lord  will  not  hold  him  guiltless 
that  taketh  his  name  in  vain."  That  commandment  is  just  as  much  in 
force  today  as  when  given  and  one  who  disregards  it  has  not  the  spirit 
of  truth.  He  who  fails  to  remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy 
does  not  develop  a  spirit  to  which  the  Lord  may  reveal  the  truth.  The 
Lord  demands  that  we  "Remember  the  Sabbath  day, -to  keep  it  holy. 
Six  days  shalt  thou  labor,  and  do  all  thy  work,  but  the  seventh  day  is  the 
Sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God ;  in  it  thou  shalt  not  do  any  work."  This 
commandment  has  been  repeated  in  this  day  in  Section  59  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  which  says  further,  "And  that  thou  mayest  more 
fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house 
of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy  day." 

Are  our  religious  services  such  that  all  classes  may  be  encouraged 
by  them  ?  Do  all  who  attend  have  the  spirit  of  worship  ?  Are  any 
inattentive  ?  What  are  we  doing  for  those  who  make  a  practice  of  using 
church  services  as  a  visiting  time?  Are  our  socials  orderly?  Is  there 
always  some  one  with  an  understanding  disposition  on  hand  to  encourage 
those  who  are  inclined  to  rowdyism?  To  my  mind  attention  to  these 
things  is  of  great  importance  to  religious  training,  for  they  tend  to 
belittle  and  make  light  of  the  spiritual. 

A  careful  examination  of  quorum  and  auxiliary  records  will  if 
analyzed  reveal  a  most  interesting  story,  and  unless  those  of  us  who  have 
been  called  as  leaders  become  thoroughly  familiar  with  this  story  we  shall 
naturally  approach  our  labors  in  an  inefficient  manner.  Are  we  holding 
our  young  men  and  moving  them  from  one  quorum  to  the  next  without 
loss  ?  Are  they  becoming  more  zealous  in  their  work  and  more  willing  to 
serve  as  they  approach  new  experiences?  If  so  we  may  well  rejoice  in 
our  labors ;  if  not,  it  is  our  duty  to  redouble  our  efforts  and  plead  with 
our  Father  for  wisdom  and  power  to  accomplish  that  end.  Spirituality 
is  not  developed  alone  through  the  study  of  the  revealed  word ;  there 
must  be  also  a  service  through  which  the  Gospel  principles  may  be  applied, 
creating  in  return  that  joy  the  Lord  is  pleased  to  bestow  upon  his  children 
as  a  reward.  These  two,  service,  with  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  will 
break  down  the  power  of  the  adversary  and  build  in  the  one  so  fortified 


72  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

a  resistance  against  evil  and  a  power  to  understand  the  truth,  for  our 
Lord  has  said :  "If  ye  contiue  in  my  word,  then  are  ye  my  disciples 
indeed  ;  And  ye  shall  know  the  truth  and  the  truth  shall  make  you  free." 
(John  8:31-32) 

To  add  to  the  activities  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  we  have  been 
during  the  past  few  years  developing  work  in  genealogy.  The  work 
of  the  Genealogical  Society  is  taking  an  important  part  in  this  con- 
ference. Their  objective  is  to  save  our  dead.  I  am  sure  that  with  proper 
planning  on  the  part  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  supervisors  those  who  hold 
this  Priesthood  can  do  much,  not  only  to  gather  the  records  of  their 
ancestors  but  also  in  doing  work  in  their  behalf,  which  will  develop 
the  spirit  of  this  work.  To  know  how  to  prepare  records,  to  be  baptized 
for  his  ancestors,  and  later  perform  other  temple  ordinances  before 
leaving  for  the  mission  field  would  place  each  Elder  in  a  position  to 
render  great  assistance  to  those  who  live  in  the  missions,  by  helping  them 
to  prepare  their  records,  much  of  which,  when  completed,  could  with 
our  help  be  done  for  them  and  cause  them  to  feel  contented  to  remain 
with  their  friends  and  neighbors  where  they  may  serve  as  missionaries 
also,  for  the  missions  are  embraced  in  Zion,  and  young  men  at  home 
preparing  for  such  work  will  become  a  tower  of  strength  to  them  and 
examples  for  good  at  home.  Parents  who  are  about  to  send  your  boys 
into  the  mission  field  do  not  be  content  with  having  them  go  through  the 
temple  only  the  few  times  they  do  so  while  at  the  mission  home.  Go 
with  them  before  this  time,  help  them  to  understand  the  full  meaning 
and  purpose  of  this  work.  This  is  not  alone  a  privilege,  but  an  obligation 
placed  upon  us.    We  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  68 : 

"Inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which 
are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  repentance,  faith 
in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  when  eight  years  eld,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the 
parents.  *  *  * 

"And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins  when 
eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

"And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly  before 
the  Lord. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy. 

"And  the  inhabitants  of  Zicn  also  shall  remember  their  labors,  inasmuch  as 
they  are  appointed  to  labor,  in  all  faithfulness ;  for  the  idler  shall  be  had  in  re- 
membrance before  the  Lord.  *  *  * 

"And  a  commandment  I  give  unto  them — that  he  that  observeth  not  his  prayers 
before  the  Lord  in  the  season  thereof,  let  him  be  had  in  remembrance  before  the 
judge  of  my  people." 

It  is  extremely  important  that  we  shall  provide  for  our  dead  that 
which  they  were  unable  to  do  for  themselves,  but  what  of  those  who 
were  not  worthy  and  who  had  that  opportunity?  We  are  given  to 
understand  that  they  must  await  the  time  of  the  Lord  before  they  can 
enjoy  the  blessings  promised.  What  of  the  boy  growing  to  manhood 
who  is  neglected  during  this  time  when  he  so  much  needs  encouragement 
through  a  contact  with  those  who  understand  the  Gospel  and  have  a 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  73 

desire  to  use  this  knowledge  to  teach  them  in  the  spirit  of  love  and  truth  ? 
What  of  the  man  who  has  been  neglected,  whose  children  are  untrained 
because  of  his  lack  of  knowledge,  a  condition  existing  generally  not 
because  he  would  have  it  so?  Perhaps  he  too  was  neglected  and  has 
not  the  power  within  himself  to  regain  that  which  he  has  lost.  Is  it 
not  even  more  important  that  we  save  him  and  his  household  while  he 
has  the  privilege  of  enjoying  the  promise  of  coming  forth  in  the  first 
resurrection  ?    Let  us  be  mindful  of  the  words  of  the  apostles  of  old : 

"Brethren,  if  any  of  you  do  err  from  the  truth,  and  one  convert  him; 

"Let  him  know,  that  he  which  converteth  the  sinner  from  the  error  of  his 
way  shall  save  a  soul  from  death,  and  shall  hide  a  multitude  of  sins."  (James 
5:19-20) 

"We  are  of  God :  he  that  knoweth  God  heareth  us ;  he  that  is  not  of  God 
heareth  not  us.    Hereby  knoweth  we  the  spirit  of  truth,  and  the  spirit  of  error. 

"Beloved,  let  us  love  one  another :  for  love  is  of  God ;  and  every  one  that 
loveth  is  born  of  God,  and  knoweth  God."  (I  John  4:6-7) 

As  an  example  of  service  I  give  you  the  following :  The  Tabernacle 
choir  began  to  sing  over  a  national  radio  network  a  little  more  than 
four  years  ago ;  their  program  is  now  considered  to  be  the  outstanding 
radio  program  in  the  world.  Why?  Because  they  receive  no  other 
compensation  for  their  work  than  the  joy  of  service.  There  are  273 
members,  they  rehearse  Thursday  nights,  sing  over  the  Columbia  broad- 
casting network  each  Sunday  morning,  and  for  the  regular  Church 
service  Sunday  afternoon  each  week.  This  requires  them  to  make  three 
trips  to  the  tabernacle  and  three  home  each  week,  a  personal  outlay  for 
each,  of  50  cents  a  week  for  car  fare.  Their  average  attendance  is  63.56 
per  cent.  Each  Sunday  they  are  heard  from  more  than  80  stations  with 
combined  facilities  valued  in  millions.  The  commercial  value  of  each 
program  period  is  about  $10,000.00,  and  of  the  full  period  they  have 
been  on  the  air  $2,500,000.00.  Each  Sunday  they  are  heard  not  only  in 
the  United  States  but  also  in  Europe  where  the  program  is  relayed  by 
short  wave  length,  those  living  on  the  isles  of  the  sea  eagerly  look  forward 
to  it.  All  this  because  of  the  devotion  of  these  singers  which  finds  ex- 
pression in  their  faithful  attendance  and  in  song  and  the  sweet  organ 
music  mellowed  by  a  divine  providence. 

I  quote  from  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  93,  verses  21  to  28: 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  was  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father,  and 
am  the  Firstborn ; 

"And  all  those  who  are  begotten  through  me  are  partakers  of  the  glory  of  the 
same,  and  are  the  church  of  the  Firstborn. 

"Ye  were  also  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father ;  that  which  is  Spirit,  even 
the  Spirit  of  truth ; 

"And  truth  is  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were,  and  as  they 
are  to  come ; 

"And  whatsoever  is  more  or  less  than  this  is  the  spirit  of  that  wicked  one 
who  was  a  liar  from  the  beginning. 

"The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I  am  the  Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore 
record  of  me,  saying :  He  received  a  fulness  of  truth,  yea,  even  of  all  truth ; 

"And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness  unless  he  keepeth  his  commandments. 


74  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

"He  that  keepeth  his  commandments  receiveth  truth  and  light,  until  he  is 
glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all  things." 

If  these  words  are  true,  and  I  sincerely  believe  with  all  the  powers 
of  my  soul  that  they  are,  are'  we  not  charged  with  a  great  responsibility  ? 

May  our  Father  help  us  to  understand  and  live  in  obedience  to  his 
commandments  I  humbly  pray. 

-ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  when  I  heard  Brother  Grant  say  that  some 
individual  had  sent  a  card,  anonymously,  asking  that  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom be  not  spoken  of  in  this  conference,  I  wondered  whether  that 
individual  expected  to  be  present,  and  whether  or  not  present  at  each 
of  these  sessions.  If  so,  he  or  she  must  have  been  surprised  at  the 
wonderful  success  that  card  had  in  bringing  exactly  the  opposite  results. 

Most  of  the  speakers  have  dwelt  upon  the  principle  of  temperance, 
and  the  problem  before  the  people  at  the  present  time.  I  want  to  indorse 
the  remarks  of  Brother  Ballard,  relative  to  how  the  missionaries  feel 
in  the  world,  or  at  least  in  that  part  of  the  world  to  which  I  have  been 
assigned,  the  Canadian  Mission ;  what  anxiety  they  feel  as  to  how  Utah 
will  stand  upon  this  question  that  comes  before  them  shortly — the  repeal 
of  the  prohibition  amendment. 

They  have  traveled  there  and  taught  the  people  that  this  Gospel  is 
different  from  theirs;  that  it  has  life  and  vitality  in  it;  that  it  changes 
the  lives  of  its  adherents,  makes  them  better,  gives  them  newer  ideas; 
that  they  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Now,  they  wonder,  as  they 
walk  the  paths,  the  lanes,  and  the  highways,  preaching  the  Gospel, 
as  to  what  the  result  will  be  should  Utah  follow  the  majority  who  have 
thus  far  expressed  themselves,  the  history  that  she  will  make.  They 
feel  that  though  Utah  be  the  only  state  in  the  Union  that  votes  against 
the  repeal,  they  can  hold  their  heads  high  and  say:  "We  have  been 
vindicated ;  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  taught  the  Gospel,  and 
whatever  there  may  be  of  theory  or  idea  as  to  why  they  ought  to  be 
better  off  with  repeal  of  the  Eighteenth  Amendment  than  they  are  with 
that  amendment  in  the  Constitution,  they  have  at  least  shown  their  faith 
by  their  works."  They  feel  if  otherwise,  the  people  will  say:  "You  have 
told  us  that  you  have  a  gospel  different  from  all  else  that  exists  in  the 
world ;  that  it  has  a  revitalizing  effect  upon  your  people.  Now  explain 
Utah's  vote."  Utah,  we  are  told,  is  sixty  per  cent  Mormon,  and  forty 
per  cent  non-Mormon;  and  out  of  that  non-Mormon  membership  there 
are  many  in  the  Christian  denominations  and  churches  who  are  working 
hard  and  diligently  against  a  repeal.  If  Utah  then  votes  for  repeal,  it 
means  that  thousands  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  forsaken  that  which 
they  have  been  taught,  and  have  been  led  away  by  error. 

Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  overheard  a  remark  about  which 
he  spoke,  to  some  extent.     I  also  overheard  one  by  a  church  worker 


ELDER  JOHN  V.  BLUTH  75 

who  felt  that  he  had  to  vote  "wet,"  or  for  the  repeal,  because  it  meant 
more  revenue  to  us.  I  wondered  where  in  the  world  that  revenue  is 
going  to  come  from,  except  out  of  the  pockets  of  the  people  who  will 
then  be  led  to  indulge  in  the  things  that  they  have  refrained  from  here- 
tofore. Every  dollar  they  spend  for  liquor  goes  first  to  pay  for  the  rent 
of  the  saloon,  for  the  purchase  of  the  fixtures  the  saloon-keeper  has  to 
have,  for  the  purchase  of  the  merchandise  he  expects  to  dispense  there, 
for  the  home  that  he  builds  for  his  family,  for  the  luxuries  that  he  gives 
unto  them,  for  the  car,  the  radio,  and  other  things,  to  pay  the  tax 
upon  his  property,  to  pay  the  taxes  upon  the  saloon  property,  and  to 
give  him  something  to  lay  by  for  a  rainy  day;  and  if  there  is  any  part 
left,  that  goes  to  revenue.  How  much  ?  Possibly  a  dime  on  a  dollar ; 
I  doubt  if  that  much.  Oh,  is  it  necessary  to  put  a  dollar  through  the 
hands  of  the  saloon-keeper  in  order  to  get  a  dime  back  in  revenue,  and 
while  we  get  that  dime  back  debauch  the  manhood  of  the  nation?  That 
is  the  question  as  it  appeals  to  me. 

The  missionaries  feel  that  they  want  to  be  able  to  say  that  Utah 
has  shown,  by  its  attitude,  that  it  lives  what  it  preaches. 

The  song  at  the  opening  of  the  session  here  this  afternoon  was : 

"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet, 

To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days ; 
We  thank  thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 

To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 
We  thank  thee  for  every  blessing, 

Bestowed  by  thy  bounteous  hand. 
We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  thee, 

And  love  to  obey  thy  command." 

I  feel  if  we  who  have  sung  that  this  afternoon  really  mean  what  we  have 
sung,  then  we  can  count  upon  all  of  us  to  do  that  which  is  right  in  this 
matter,  and  as  missionaries  bring  as  many  more  to  the  same  attitude  of 
mind.  Our  prophet  has  spoken;  counsel  has  been  given.  Years  past 
have  proven  to  us  the  wisdom  of  abiding  by  the  counsels  given  unto  us. 
Why  not  learn  by  experience  already  had,  rather  than  the  lamentable 
experience  that  is  bound  to  come  to  us  otherwise? 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  brethren  and  sisters  in  the  Canadian 
Mission.  They  are  not  many,  but  they  are  determined ;  they  are  full  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  We  love  them  for  their  integrity,  their  desire  to 
serve,  their  willingness  to  devote  as  much  time  as  can  possibly  be  given 
in  every  day  of  every  week,  during  their  service,  in  bringing  the  Gospel 
to  as  many  people  as  possible,  in  any  way  that  they  can  conceive  of.  We 
need  more  missionaries.  We  have  had  to  abandon  or  withdraw  our 
missionaries  from  four  districts,  and  to  concentrate  a  little  more,  pending 
the  arrival  of  more  missionaries.  But  we  feel  that  we  are  doing  the 
work  of  the  Lord,  that  his  blessings  attend  us,  and  that  there  is  a  finer 
spirit  than  there  has  been  for  some  time,  and  that  spirit  is  creeping 
into  the  branches  of  the  Church.  Much  of  the  discord  and  disunion  that 
has  been  exhibited  heretofore  has  been  dissipated.  The  people  have 
learned  more  of  the  philosophy  of  the  Gospel,  what  it  means  to  love 


76  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

and  to  forgive  and  to  overlook.  They  have  learned  something  of  the 
difference  between  discord  and  union,  and  what  the  results  of  those 
two  will  be.  They  are  coming  nearer  unto  the  Lord.  They  are  putting 
up  a  little  with  one  another's  faults  where  they  criticised  before. 

Our  baptisms  have  increased  considerably  over  those  of  the  entire 
past  year,  and  there  are  quite  a  number  of  prospects  who  show  an  interest 
in  the  Gospel,  a  genuine  interest,  because  of  the  principles  taught.  We 
feel  to  rejoice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  that  mission.  It  may  be  the 
gleaning  time  for  we  get  them,  one  out  of  a  city  and  another  out  of  a 
county,  here  and  there,  but  they  are  souls,  children  of  God,  and  should 
be  found. 

We  rejoice  in  the  work  we  have  been  given  to  do,  and  we  pray  God's 
blessing,  not  only  upon  the  work  in  our  mission,  but  upon  the  fields 
throughout  the  entire  world.  May  the  Lord  so  bless  us  that  fi- 
nance and  means  may  come  unto  us,  and  that  the  spirit  of  sacrifice 
may  enter  our  souls,  that  we  may  send  more  of  our  people  into  the 
field ;  and  may  he  open  up  the  places  where  so  far  the  Gospel  has 
not  yet  been  permitted  to  come,  and  that  the  people  may  be  willing  to 
receive  it.     Then  we  may  find  another  harvest  time. 

God  bless  you  all,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  may  he  help  us 
to  be  faithful  unto  the  end,  and,  having  entered  into  the  fold  through 
baptism,  not  be  content  to  sit  down  by  the  gate  where  we  entered,  and 
say:  "We  are  saved,"  as  they  do  in  the  world,  but  recognize  the  fact 
that  our  whole  journey  still  lies  before  us,  and  if  we  expect  to  reach 
the  destination  we  must  continue  to  plod  on  in  faithfulness,  in  activity 
and  in  service,  and  learn  more  about  God's  commandments,  and  about 
living  them. 

God  bless  you,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  North  Central  States  Mission 

Though  feeling  my  weakness  very  keenly,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
in  filling  this  important  position,  I  am  nevertheless  glad  to  join  in  the 
spirit  of  this  wonderful  conference,  and  briefly  to  report  conditions  in 
the  North  Central  States  Mission. 

Listening  to  the  clarion  call  of  our  President  and  others  who  have 
spoken  in  this  Conference,  I  have  thought  of  the  question  of  Paul  to 
the  Corinthians:  "If  the  trumpet  shall  give  an  uncertain  sound, 
who  shall  prepare  himself  to  the  battle?"  (I  Cor.  14:8).  Obviously, 
the  answer  to  the  question  is,  "nobody ;"  which,  I  believe  explains  in  part 
the  confusion  that  is  found  in  the  religious  thinking  of  the  world.  There 
is  in  its  leadership  no  authoritative,  "Thus  saith  the  Lord." 

Whatever  else  may  be  thought  of  "Mormonism,"  its  trumpet  call 
to  the  world  is  no  uncertain  sound.  Just  think :  The  Father  and  the 
Son  themselves,  in  the  sacred  grove,  announcing  Divine  disapproval  of 
conditions  as  they  were,  and  proclaiming  a  restoration  of  the  Gospel; 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING  77 

Moroni,  a  great  Prophet  of  this  hemisphere,  restoring  the  scripture  and 
record  of  his  people,  The  Book  of  Mormon ;  John  the  Baptist,  conferring 
the  Aaronic  priesthood ;  Peter,  James,  and  John,  the  Melchizedek  priest- 
hood ;  Moses,  Elias,  and  Elijah,  restoring  the  keys  of  their  great  calling, 
with  all  that  that  implies. 

And  now,  today  and  yesterday,  and  at  every  such  conference  of 
the  Church,  the  voice  of  the  Lord  unmistakably,  through  his  chosen 
leaders,  presenting  clear,  emphatic,  and  authoritative  trumpet  calls  to 
the  world,  "repent,  for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand." 

So  I  am  glad  to  be  here,  to  find  myself  in  harmony  with  all  that  has 
been  said  and  done  at  this  marvelous  Conference,  and  to  carry  back 
the  message  of  it  to  the  people  among  whom  it  is  my  privilege  and  honor 
to  serve. 

In  the  North  Central  States  Mission  we  have  only  one-third  as 
many  missionaries  as  formerly,  but  we  are  trying  to  carry  on  and  to 
make  up  this  deficiency  in  three  ways:  First,  by  increased  activity  on 
the  part  of  the  few  missionaries  who  remain:  Secondly,  by  extension 
of  our  special  or  local  missionary  service:  Thirdly,  by  the  greater  use 
of  our  branches  and  of  the  auxiliaries  of  the  Church  as  missionary 
agencies  and  centers  of  missionary  activity. 

To  illustrate :  only  last  week,  in  a  far  corner  of  the  mission,  I  met 
with  a  newly  organized  Mutual  Improvement  Association.  Forty-three 
people  were  present.  Three  of  us  were  missionaries.  Five  others, 
constituting  the  leadership  of  the  group,  were  local  members ;  and  thirty- 
five  were  friends  and  investigators  who  had  come  out  to  participate  in 
the  benefits  and  blessings  of  that  particular  auxiliary.  And  so  it  is 
elsewhere  throughout  the  mission. 

In  the  far  northwestern  corner  of  our  mission,  not  many  weeks 
ago,  four  hundred  miles  above  the  border  at  Beaver  Crossing  near  Cold 
Lake,  we  held  a  baptism,  blessed  a  few  babies,  and  organized  what  I 
suppose  is  the  northernmost  branch  of  the  Church  in  Canada.  This 
little  pioneer  community  faces  the  necessity,  at  once,  of  building  for 
themselves  a  chapel  from  the  timber  growing  on  their  homesteads ;  and 
our  hope  and  prayer  is  that  the  Lord  will  bless  them,  and  that  the  Gospel 
may  'be  carried  to  the  various  corners  of  our  mission  with  such  agencies 
as  remain. 

Opportunities  abound  for  preaching  the  Gospel,  for  which  we  are 
grateful ;  and  sentiment  favorable  to  our  Church  and  people  is  growing. 
Concerning  our  missionaries,  we  are  pleased  to  report  that  the  young 
men  and  women  who  come  to  us  are  "the  salt  of  the  earth."  Every 
one  of  them  is  well,  and  busy,  and  happy  in  his  or  her  work,  and  the 
Lord  is  blessing  their  efforts  and  magnifying  them  in  the  eyes  of  the 
people. 

Our  testimony  is  that  God  lives,  that  this  is  his  Church  and  King- 
dom; and  that  it  will  stand  forever;  and  "we  are  all  enlisted  till  the 
conflict  is  o'er." 

To  which  humble  testimony  and  report  may  the  Lord  add  his 
blessings,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


78  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

ELDER  HYRUM  D.  JENSEN 

Former  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  words  cannot  express  the  joy  and  satis- 
faction that  I  have  today  in  being  present  in  our  General  Conference. 
It  has  now  been  five  years  since  I  had  the  privilege  of  meeting  here, 
listening  to  the  counsel  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  been  absent  in  the  Norwegian  Mission  for  four  and  a  half 
years,  and  I  must  say  that  we  have  been  under  the  leadership,  in  Europe, 
of  one  of  the  most  wonderful  men  I  have  ever  met,  President  John  A. 
Widtsoe.  I  am  very  thankful  that  I  had  the  privilege  of  going  into 
the  European  Mission  while  President  Widtsoe  was  taking  charge  of  that 
mission.  He  has  been  a  father  to  us  mission  presidents.  He  has  been  a 
father  to  the  missionaries — a  man  whom  we  could  always  depend  on  for 
counsel  and  instruction. 

But  we  have  missed  the  counsel  and  instructions  that  you  receive 
here  twice  a  year,  and  as  I  stated,  I  have  not  words  to  express  my  joy 
in  having  had  the  privilege  of  hearing  the  voice,  the  instructions  and 
the  counsel  that  we  received  yesterday  from  our  beloved  President, 
Heber  J.  Grant,  and  from  the  others  who  have  spoken  yesterday  and 
today. 

I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  Norwegian  Mission,  from  the  elders 
and  the  Saints.  There  are  only  a  few  missionaries.  We  haven't  had  as 
many  as  we  wish  we  could  have  had.  I  sometimes  have  said  that  I  was 
sorry  I  was  called  to  go  to  the  Norwegian  Mission  just  before  the 
depression  came.  But  when  I  look  back  upon  the  work  that  has  been 
performed  there,  I  feel  that  the  depression  has  been  a  blessing  to  us. 
While  it  has  deprived  us  of  the  missionaries  from  home,  it  has  com- 
pelled the  Saints  to  be  more  faithful  and  more  energetic  in  the  work. 
Every  branch  in  the  Norwegian  Mission  today  is  thoroughly  organized 
and  in  the  hands  of  local  people.  We  have  no  missionaries  that  are 
concerned  in  any  way  with  the  branches. 

We  have  all  the  organizations  that  you  have  here  at  home.  While 
we  haven't  them  as  perfectly  organized,  perhaps,  as  you  have  here,  they 
are  working  toward  perfection.  Our  Relief  Society  is  doing  a  wonderful 
work:  I  don't  know  what  I  would  have  been  able  to  do  in  the  mission 
if  it  hadn't  been  for  the  good,  faithful  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society. 
Where  we  had  no  Priesthood  or  male  members  in  the  branches  or  in 
the  cities,  these  faithful  sisters  have  carried  on  the  Relief  Society  work, 
and  are  doing  it  today. 

Our  Sunday  Schools  are  fully  organized  and  doing  a  wonderful 
work.  We  have  nearly  as  many  children  enrolled  in  our  Sunday  Schools 
who  do  not  belong  to  the  Church  as  we  have  who  belong  to  the  Church. 

Our  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  are  all  in  the  hands  of  local 
people,  and  are  performing  a  wonderful  work  among  the  young  people. 

We  have  the  Primary  Organization,  which  is  just  in  its  infancy, 
but  the  sisters  who  have  charge  of  it  are  working  hard  and  faithfully 


ELDER   HYRUM   D.    JENSEN  79 

to  make  it  a  success  throughout  the  mission.  There  are  many  more 
children  who  belong  to  or  are  attending  the  Primary  Association  who 
do  not  belong  to  the  Church  than  there  are  children  who  are  members 
of  the  Church.  iWe  are  holding  in  the  homes  of  the  Saints  and  in  the 
homes  of  our  friends,  who  will  open  up  their  houses  for  that  purpose, 
Primaries  in  different  parts  of  the  city.  Eight  to  ten  or  twelve  children 
at  a  time  are  gathered  together  and  are  instructed  in  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel.  We  have  been  following  out  to  the  letter  the  instructions  that 
we  have  received,  and  the  lessons  that  have  been  sent  to  us  through  the 
Children's  Friend. 

We  have  the  Genealogical  organizations  organized  throughout  the 
mission,  and  they  are  now  doing  a  splendid  work.  The  Saints  are  be- 
coming interested  in  the  gathering  of  their  genealogy,  and  I  look  for  the 
time  to  come  when  we  shall  receive  from  that  land  a  great  many  names 
of  people  for  whom  the  Saints  here  in  Zion  may  do  work  in  the  temples. 

I  can  join  with  the  other  mission  presidents  in  stating  that  the 
young  men  who  have  been  sent  to  the  Norwegian  Mission  during  my 
presidency  are  the  choicest  young  men  I  have  ever  had  the  privilege  of 
laboring  with.  We  have  only  ten  missionaries  at  present  in  the  mission 
to  do  the  work  that  was  formerly  done  by  twenty  missionaries. 

In  closing,  I  will  state  that  my  first  mission  to  Norway  was  thirty- 
nine  years  ago.  I  found  conditions  very  much  different  at  that  time 
from  what  they  are  now.  My  second  mission  was  in  1911,  1912,  and 
1913.  I  came  home  in  the  fall  of  1913,  and  went  back  to  take  charge 
of  the  mission  in  1929.  I  found  that  there  was  great  opposition  to  us  dur- 
ing my  earlier  missions.  We  had  some  difficulty  in  getting  missionaries 
into  the  country  when  we  received  seven  missionaries  at  one  time.  The 
government  officials  asked  what  we  were  trying  to  do.  For  a  time  it 
seemed  that  we  might  have  to  write  home  and  ask  that  so  many  be 
not  sent  at  one  time ;  but  conditions  have  changed.  We  could  use  today 
as  many  missionaries  as  the  Church  is  able  to  send  to  the  Norwegian 
Mission.  The  people  are  hungry  for  the  Gospel.  They  are  praying 
to  God  that  men  will  come  to  them  with  the  truth.  They  are  searching 
for  the  truth. 

These  ten  missionaries  were  holding  seven  open-air  meetings  a 
week  during  the  summer  months,  and  we  figured  that  we  were  having 
an  attendance  at  these  open-air  meetings  of  between  two  thousand  and 
twenty-five  hundred  people,  who  came  out  regularly  upon  the  market 
places  and  in  the  parks  to  hear  the  Gospel  explained  by  the  missionaries. 
When  I  bade  the  people  farewell  on  the  main  public  square  in  the  city 
of  Oslo,  and  told  them  that  I  was  going  to  return  home,  perhaps  a 
hundred  people  came  forward  out  of  the  audience  of  about  four  hundred 
and  fifty  people,  and  bade  me  farewell,  wishing  me  joy  in  the  future,  and 
thanking  me  for  the  enlightenment  that  they  had  received  through  our 
meetings  upon  the  public  market  places  of  Oslo. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  thought 
I  had  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  a  living  testimony,  before  I  went  upon 


80  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

this  last  mission,  but  through  the  inspiration  of  God  that  has  attended 
me  in  my  labors  while  I  was  there,  and  my  dear  wife,  and  the  good 
missionaries  with  whom  I  have  had  the  privilege  of  laboring,  there 
has  come  to  me  a  testimony,  and  I  hope  the  Lord  will  never  permit  me 
to  do  anything  that  will  deprive  me  of  it,  because  it  is  the  only  thing 
that  brings  joy  and  satisfaction  to  me. 

I  plead  with  the  Norwegian  people — you  of  Norwegian  descent 
— to  do  more  towards  teaching  your  children,  your  young  men,  the 
Norwegian  language,  so  that  when  they  go  into  the  mission  field  they 
will  be  better  prepared  to  preach  the  Gospel,  because  it  is  resting  upon 
our  shoulders,  those  who  have  Norwegian  blood  running  in  their  veins, 
to  warn  that  nation,  and  to  give  them  the  Gospel.  May  we  do  it,  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL  CONFERENCE 

Mission  Presidents  Appointed 

Joseph  F.  Merrill  appointed  President  of  the  European  Mission  to 
succeed  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Don  B.  Colton  appointed  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 
to  succeed  James  H.  Moyle. 

Daniel  J.  Lang  appointed  President  of  the  French  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed Golden  L.  Woolf. 

Rufus  K.  Hardy  appointed  President  of  the  New  Zealand  Mission 
to  succeed  Harold  T.  Christensen  (acting  President). 

Milton  H.  Knudson  appointed  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 
to  succeed  Hyrum  D.  Jensen. 

LeRoy  Mallory  appointed  President  of  the  Tahitian  Mission  to 
succeed  George  W.  Burbidge. 

Thomas  Edgar  Lyon  appointed  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Frank  I.  Kooyman. 

Elias  S.  Woodruff  appointed  President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 
to  succeed  Samuel  O.  Bennion. 

Mission  Name  Changed 

The  Armenian  Mission  has  been  changed  to  the  Palestine-Syrian 
Mission. 

Stake  President  Appointed 

S.  Taylor  Farnsworth  succeeded  Thomas  W.  Gunn  as  President  of 
the  Beaver  Stake. 

New  Ward  Organized 

Vermont  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake, 

New  Independent  Branches 

Bay  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake. 
Pittsburgh  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake, 
Vallejo  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake. 
ChalHs  Branch,  Lost  River  Stake, 


PRESIDENT    HEBER    J.    GRANT  81 

General  Authorities  who  have  Passed  Away 

James  E.  Talmage,  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 

Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Senior  President  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 

Bishops  zvho  have  Passed  Away 

Joseph  L.  Shumway,  Virginia  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

E.  Glen  Wood,  Glenwood  Ward,  Alberta  Stake. 

Gideon  W.  Diswell,  Manti  South  Ward,  South  Sanpete  Stake. 

Others  who  have  Passed  Away 

John  L.  Bills,  Second  Counselor  in  Lost  River  Stake  Presidency. 

Susa  Young  Gates,  one  of  our  most  faithful  and  diligent  workers 
among  the  sisters,  from  her  young  womanhood  until  her  death. 

Sister  Mildred  B.  Jensen  sang  a  sacred  solo,  "The  Lord  is  my  light." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  R.  Christiansen, 
President  of  the  Moroni  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  October  8. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  October  8. 

Every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  auditorium 
and  galleries  was  occupied  before  9:30  o'clock.  The  large  Assembly 
Hall  on  the  Temple  Block  was  crowded  with  people  who  could  not  find 
accommodation  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  hundreds  of  others  assembled  on 
the  Tabernacle  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  proceedings  as  they 
were  broadcast  by  radio. 

As  a  prelude  to  the  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  the  following 
program  of  choral  and  organ  music  was  rendered  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  and  Organ,  from  9 :30  to  10 :30,  and  broadcast  by  radio  from  coast 
to  coast  over  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System,  originating  over 
Station  KSL: 

"Awake"    (Wagner) — Choir. 

"I'll  sing  thee  songs"   (Clay) — Organ. 

"Arise,  0  glorious  Zion"  (Careless) — Choir. 

"Scherzo"  (Rogers) — Organ. 

"Glorious  things  are  sung  of  Zion"  (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Finlandia"   (Sibelius) — Organ. 
."Lead  kindly  light"  (Parks)— Choir. 

"Lo!  the  Mighty  God  appearing"  (Stephens) — Choir. 

"Pilgrims  Chorus"   (Wagner) — Organ. 

"He  that  shall  endure"  (Mendelssohn) — Choir. 

"Berceuse"   (Dickinson) — Organ. 

"The  Lord's  Prayer"  (Gates) — Choir. 

"March  Religieuse"  (Guilmant) — Organ. 

"Hail  bright  abode"  (Wagner) — Choir. 

"Gently  raise  the  sacred  strain"  (Phelps) — Choir. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  conducted  by  Anthony  C.  Lund.  Organ 
accompaniments  and  organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Frank 
Asper. 

Following  the  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast  President  Heber  J.  Grant 
announced  that  the  Choir  and  the  congregation  would  join  in  singing  the 
hymn  "Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  President  of  the  Grant  Stake. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVilNS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to  express  the  gratitude  which  I 
feel  that  I  am  permitted  to  meet  again  in  a  general  conference  of  the 
Church.     I  have  not  been  well,  but  through  the  blessing  of  the  Lord 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  83 

I  have  not  been  seriously  sick.  I  thank  him  and  praise  his  name  for 
this  privilege. 

I  love  to  be  here  at  these  gatherings  of  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  love  to  listen  to  the  voices  of  my 
brethren  who  are  called  upon  to  address  you.  It  is  one  of  the  joys  of 
my  life. 

Naturally,  knowing  that  I  might  be  asked  to  make  remarks  at  this 
conference,  I  have  thought  of  something  to  say.  I  knew  the  message 
that  I  wished  to  deliver,  but  was  at  a  loss  to  find  words  with  which  to 
properly  express  it.  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  in  his  remarks,  sup- 
plied me  with  a  text.  He  quoted  from  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Ezekiel, 
words  which,  notwithstanding  the  centuries  which  have  passed  since  they 
were  uttered,  are  as  applicable  to  us  today  as  they  were  when  the  Lord 
uttered  them  to  him.    It  was  an  admonition  to  him  personally. 

HAD  TURNED  TO  IDOLS 

The  Israelitish  people  had  turned  from  the  faith  of  their  fathers 
to  the  worship  of  idols.  The  Lord  called  Ezekiel,  the  son  of  Buzi,  to 
go  to  them  and  proclaim  his  word,  and  he  tells  us  that  he  went  to  those 
who  dwelt  upon  the  river  Chebar,  and  abode  with  them  for  seven  days. 
He  marvelled  at  their  wickedness,  at  their  lack  of  faith,  and  hesitated 
to  declare  the  message  which  the  Lord  had  sent  him  to  deliver.  It  was 
at  this  time  that  the  Lord  called  his  attention  to  the  fact  that  when  he 
required  at  the  hands  of  a  man  the  accomplishment  of  a  work,  when  he 
sent  him  to  call  the  wicked  people  to  repentance,  and  he  failed  to  deliver 
that  message,  and  the  wicked  died  in  their  sins,  he  might  be  held  responsi- 
ble for  it.  But  he  also  said  to  him  that  if  he  complied  with  the  commands 
of  God  our  father,  and  warned  the  wicked  man  of  his  ways,  then  if  the 
man  died  in  wickedness,  he  had  complied  with  his  duty  and  would  not 
be  held  responsible.  He  called  his  attention  to  the  fact  that  he  had 
made  him  a  watchman  upon  the  towers  of  Zion,  a  man  through  whom  he 
might  properly  send  his  word  to  unbelieving  people. 

DUTY   TO    MAGNIFY    IDEALS 

I  have  often  read  this  scripture,  have  studied  it  carefully,  and 
endeavored  to  understand  its  import  and  application.  I  have  asked  myself 
this  question :  What  application  has  this  command  of  the  Lord  to  you  ? 
The  answer  that  has  come  to  me  has  always  been  the  same.  It  is  this : 
that  whatever  my  profession,  whether  it  be  as  a  citizen  of  the  government 
to  which  I  have  given  my  allegiance  or  a  member  of  the  Church  with 
which  I  affiliate,  it  becomes  my  duty  to  magnify  in  my  life  the  ideals  for 
which  my  country  stands  and  the  doctrines  which  my  Church  teaches. 

If  I  fail  in  either,  and  by  example  or  precept  lead  other  people 
away  from  loyalty  to  their  country  or  to  indifference  and  lack  of  attention 
to  religious  duties,  I  have 'in  a  sense  become  responsible,  and  I  never 
feel  this  responsibility  more  than  when  I  stand  before  a  congregation 
of  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  attitude  of  teacher,  for  the  Lord  expects  men 


84  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

and  women  who  accept  responsibility  to  magnify  it,  otherwise  they  will 
be  in  judgment. 

a  prophet's  calling 

This  particular  scripture  which  was  quoted  called  my  special  atten- 
tion to  prophecy,  the  inspired  word  of  God  our  Father,  which  is  uttered 
by  his  servants  the  prophets,  modern  and  ancient.  I  thought  of  its 
importance,  of  its  application  to  us,  and  so  sat  down  and  outlined  some 
of  the  results  of  prophecy  in  which  we  modern  people  are  particularly 
interested. 

The  word,  prophet,  defined  in  the  Hebrew  language,  means  one  who 
has  been  called  to  denounce  sin  and  foretell  the  consequences  and 
punishment  of  it.  He  is  to  be  above  all  else  a  preacher  of  righteousness, 
to  call  the  people  back  from  idolatry,  to  faith  in  the  living  God,  and 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  foretell  coming  events. 
But  more  particularly  a  prophet  is  to  be  an  expounder  of  present  duties 
and  an  interpreter  of  the  meaning  and  application  of  the  written  word. 

PROPHECIES  BEING  FULFILLED 

We  at  the  present  day  have  an  entirely  different  relationship  to 
prophecy  than  had  those  who  lived  at  the  time  that  many  of  the  most 
important  of  the  prophecies  made  were  uttered.  People  of  Bible  days 
looked  hopefully  and  in  faith  forward  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  words 
of  the  prophets. 

We  look  backward  and  see  that  many,  very  many  of  those  important 
predictions  have  been  fulfilled.  We  know  if  we  study  them  carefully 
that  we  are  living  at  a  time  when  they  are  being  fulfilled  and  that  we  are 
the  actors  in  their  fulfilment,  whether  we  are  conscious  of  it  or  not,  and 
we  know  further,  if  we  are  to  judge  by  the  signs  of  the  times  which  have 
been  given  to  us  by  the  prophets,  and  Christ  himself,  that  we  are  upon  the 
very  verge  of  the  fulfilment  of  the  most  important  of  them  all,  when 
God  our  father  will  consummate  his  work,  when  Christ  our  Lord  shall 
come  to  rule  and  assume  dominion  over  the  kingdoms  of  this  world. 

COVENANT  WITH  ABRAHAM 

It  was  four  thousand  years  ago  that  the  Lord  called  Abraham  from 
Ur  of  the  Chaldees,  and  brought  him  up  into  Palestine  to  a  country 
and  people  who  were  alien  to  his  own  race,  and  entered  into  a  new 
covenant  with  him.  This  man  was  ninety  years  of  age  and  was  childless, 
yet  the  Lord  told  him  to  look  over  all  the  land  of  Palestine,  from  north 
to  south  and  from  east  to  west  and  promised  that  he  would  give  this 
land  to  his  posterity  who  he  declared  would  become,  by  comparison,  as 
numerous  as  the  sands  upon  the  seashore  or  the  stars  of  heaven. 

It  was  not  until  one  thousand  years  later  that  this  prediction,  this 
covenant  of  the  Lord,  was  fulfilled.  When-1  David,  the  shepherd  king, 
led  the  armies  of  Israel,  subdued  the  last  Jebusite  defenders  of  the  city 
of  Jerusalem,  and  established  his  capital  city  at  that  place,  was  the  word 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS  85 

of  the  Lord  fulfilled.    Israel  did  become  at  that  time  one  of  the  dominant 
and  most  influential  kingdoms  of  the  known  world. 

A  LAND  OF  PROMISE 

We,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  are  assembled  here  today  in  this 
historic  building,  in  a  city  which  we  call  Salt  Lake,  in  a  territory  which 
we  call  Utah,  a  territory  which  forms  one  of  the  forty-eight  federated 
states  of  our  union,  each  state  independent  in  its  own  sphere,  but  all 
bound  together  by  constitutional  law,  which  welds  them  into  a  single 
entity. 

Only  yesterday  the  ground  upon  which  this  building  stands,  in  fact 
the  entire  area  covered  by  the  United  States  of  America,  was  an  un- 
cultivated wilderness.  The  prophets  of  the  Lord,  centuries  before,  had 
predicted  the  existence  of  this  land,  before  it  was  known  to  the  people 
of  the  old  world.  They  had  outlined  to  us  the  establishment  of  this 
government  of  ours ;  they  had  declared  that  upon  this  land,  which  to 
them  was  a  land  choice  above  all  others,  there  would  be  established 
a  system  of  civil  government,  which  would  be  a  light  to  the  world;  a 
government  to  which  would  be  gathered  the  remnant  of  the  scattered 
house  of  Israel;  a  government  in  which  men  would  enjoy  equal  rights 
under  the  law;  a  government  in  which  men  would  act  as  their  own 
conscience  might  prompt  them  to  do — with  this  restriction,  however, 
that  in  that  which  they  did  they  must  not  infringe  upon  the  rights  of  others 
or  prevent  them  from  exercising  the  agency  which  they  themselves 
exercised. 

The  prophet  Isaiah,  referring  to  this  land  of  America,  these  ever- 
lasting hills,  declared  that  at  a  future  time — the  time  to  which  he 
referred  was  the  latter  days — the  house  of  the  Lord  would  be  established 
here,  and  that  all  nations  would  flow  unto  it ;  that  they  would  be  taught 
here  the  way  of  the  Lord  and  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths.  By  foreknowl- 
edge of  God  the  prophets  declared  that  by  the  direction  of  his  Spirit 
the  Lord  would  bring  people  to  this  continent  who  would  establish  this 
form  of  government,  and  said  that  they  would  never  be  overthrown  or 
conquered  by  other  nations,  if  they  would  but  serve  the  God  of  the  land, 
who  is  Jesus  Christ. 

The  destiny  of  America  from  the  day  that  Columbus  sailed  from 
the  ports  of  Spain  to  the  present,  was  declared  by  the  prophets  of  the 
Lord,  as  I  have  said,  before  the  people  of  Europe  knew  that  America 
existed.  The  sailing  of  Columbus,  from  the  port  of  Palos,  in  Spain, 
was  not  a  thing  of  chance.  It  had  been  declared  by  the  prophets  nearly 
two  thousand  years  before  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  would  rest  upon 
a  man  among  the  Gentiles,  and  that  he  would  sail  forth  and  land  upon 
this  continent.  As  he  sailed  on  and  on  over  uncharted  seas,  his  crew 
was  in  open  revolt,  they  declared  that  they  would  go  no  farther,  and  that 
upon  the  morrow  they  would  turn  the  prows  of  their  ships  back  to  the 
east  and  endeavor  to  find  their  way  back  to  Spain,  but  upon  that  eventful 
night  a  gun  from  the  Pinta  announced  that  land  had  been  sighted.  A 
new  world  had  been  discovered. 


S6  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

COMING  OF  PILGRIMS 

Two  hundred  years  after  the  landing  of  Columbus  another  landing 
occurred  which  had  been  just  as  definitely  declared  by  the  prophets  of 
God.  When  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  anchored  their  ships  off  Plymouth 
Rock,  another  prophecy  had  been  fulfilled  and  the  history  of  the 
American  nation  had  been  commenced.  Both  of  these  events  had  been 
declared,  according  to  the  dates  I  have  been  able  to  discover,  two  thou- 
sand years  before  their  final  accomplishment. 

INDEPENDENCE   DECLARED 

For  more  than  a  century  the  colonists  who  had  come  from  the 
Old  World  continued  to  live  under  the  governments  of  the  countries 
from  which  they  came.  At  the  end  of  that  time,  and  this  too  in  fulfil- 
ment of  the  decrees  of  the  prophets,  they  declared  that  they  of  right 
were  and  should  be  an  independent  people. 

The  Declaration  of  Independence  was  published  to  the  world,  the 
War  of  Independence  was  fought  and  won,  and  our  ship  of  state  was 
launched  on  a  troubled  sea.  The  hour  had  struck  that  kingcraft  and 
priestcraft,  which  for  ages  had  held  the  struggling  masses  of  the  world 
in  thralldom,  under  perverted  control  both  in  civil  and  religious  life,  were 
to  be  stricken  and  the  people  of  the  world  were  to  be  emancipated  from 
the  shackles  with  which  they  had  been  bound. 

CHURCH  FOUNDED 

A  half  century  had  elapsed  since  the  establishment  of  our  govern- 
ment when  another  event  of  transcendent  importance  to  the  world  oc- 
curred. The  events  that  I  have  so  briefly  and  imperfectly  outlined  up 
to  the  present  were  simply  the  foreordained  and  divine  accomplishments 
that  were  to  occur  for  the  accomplishment  of  a  divine  purpose.  Our 
Lord  taught  his  apostles  that  though  his  life  might  be  taken  by  his  enemies, 
though  the  kingdom  which  he  would  have  established  might  be  destroyed 
by  men,  yet  would  he  live  on  and  come  again  to  assume  control  and 
dominion  over  the  earth.  When  they  asked  him  when  this  would  be — 
"give  us  a  sign,"  they  pleaded,  "by  which  we  may  know  the  time  of  your 
coming  and  the  establishment  of  your  kingdom," — he  outlined  the  things 
which  would  occur  in  the  world,  things  which  we  are  passing  through 
today,  as  plainly  as  though  he  had  seen  them,  and  definitely  declared 
that  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  should  be  restored  and  preached  in  all 
the  world  as  a  witness. 

That  promise,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  was  fulfilled  eighteen  hun- 
dred years  later  when,  through  the  ministry  of  Christ  our  Lord  and 
under  his  direction,  the  opening  of  the  present  gospel  dispensation  was 
effected  through  Joseph  Smith  and  those  who  were  associated  with  him. 

Washington's  influence 

Immediately  after  the  surrender  of  Cornwallis  at  Yorktown,  trouble, 
as  serious  as  any  which  our  government  has  since  experienced,  occurred. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  87 

The  army  was  about  to  be  disbanded,  there  was  no  money  with  which 
to  pay  the  soldiers  for  the  years  of  devoted  service  which  they  had 
rendered  their  country.  It  was  proposed  that  Washington  be  declared 
king  and  that  the  confederation  of  states  be  dissolved.  Others  de- 
nounced Washington  as  the  person  responsible  for  all  of  the  trouble  with 
which  they  were  threatened.  The  army  threatened  to  march  upon  the 
Congress  and  enforce  its  demands,  and  for  fear  that  this  might  be 
accomplished,  Congress  adjourned  and  moved  its  place  of  meeting  from 
Philadelphia  to  Princeton  in  New  Jersey. 

"While  these  plotters  were  assembled,"  Fiske  says  (I  have  copied 
this  from  his  writings,  and  now  quote) :  "Washington  suddenly  came 
into  the  meeting  and  amid  profound  silence  broke  forth  in  a  most 
eloquent  and  profound  speech.  All,"  he  says,  "were  hushed  by  that 
majestic  presence  and  those  solemn  tones.  He  pleaded  for  patience," 
as  Elder  Richards  pleaded  for  it  here  yesterday,  for  tolerance,  "for 
trust  in  the  newly  born  government  which  would  in  the  end  pay  that 
which  it  owed.  The  soldiers  listened,  hesitated  and  yielded  to  the  ir- 
repressible presence  of  the  man  who,  more  than  any  other,  had  made 
the  establishment  of  our  nation  possible." 

OVERCOMING  PROBLEMS 

From  that  time  to  the  present  our  country  has  met  and  solved  many 
grave  problems,  it  has  had  wars  and  emerged  victorious  from  them.  It 
has  had  financial  depressions,  many  of  them,  but  notwithstanding  this 
trouble,  it  has  gone  on.  I  might  go  on  and  quote  part  of  the  notes  I 
have  here,  from  the  war  of  the  rebellion,  when  fratricidal  war  shook 
the  foundations  upon  which  the  government  was  established  down  until 
the  present  time.  From  all  of  these  we  have  emerged  stronger,  more 
influential,  more  powerful,  until  today  the  United  States  of  America 
has  become  the  most  influential  and  perhaps  the  wealthiest  nation  in 
the  world. 

PRESENT  PERPLEXITIES 

At  the  same  time,  paradoxical  though  the  statement  may  appear  to 
you,  in  the  midst  of  all  its  wealth,  surrounded  by  the  abundance  which 
the  Lord  has  showered  upon  us,  we  know  that  millions  of  our  fellow 
citizens  are  in  dire  need  for  the  common  necessities  of  life.  Every 
citizen  who  is  familiar  with  existing  conditions  in  our  country  knows 
that  embarrassing  situations  and  complex  questions  confront  us  at  the 
present  time. 

They  are  not  only  perplexing  to  the  national  government,  but  to  the 
various  states  which  constitute  the  Union,  the  counties  which  constitute 
the  states,  and  the  municipalities  which  constitute  the  counties ;  and  to 
a  greater  or  less  extent,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  they  affect  every 
individual  of  the  commonwealth,  as  you  who  hear  my  voice  well  know 
from  your  own  experience. 

Three  things  have  conspired  during  the  past  decade  which  more 
than  any  others  although  there  have  been  many  ramifications  from  them, 


88  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

have  created  the  present  unfortunate  situation.  They  are,  as  I  analyze 
them,  the  following: 

First,  the  unprecedented  disposition  among  the  citizens  of  our 
country  to  treat  with  indifference  the  obligation  of  obedience  to  civil 
law,  and  the  indifference  manifested  by  administrative  officers  in  the 
administration  of  it. 

Second,  the  frenzied  desire  of  selfish  men  to  become  suddenly 
wealthy  regardless  of  the  ethics  of  the  means  employed  to  accomplish 
their  ambitious  and  unrighteous  desires. 

Third,  the  increasing  indifference  of  our  people  to  the  sacredness 
of  religious  obligation. 

SHOULD    OBEY    LAWS 

The  revelations  given  for  the  guidance  of  the  Church  tell  us 
definitely  that  governments  are  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit  of  man, 
and  admonish  us  to  be  obedient  to  the  civil  law  in  the  countries  in  which 
we  reside ;  that  it  is  the  right  of  all  men  to  act  in  both  private  and  public 
affairs  as  their  conscience  may  direct,  but,  as  I  have  stated,  with  the 
limitation  that  they  are  not  to  infringe  upon  the  privileges  and  rights 
of  others. 

The  Lord  says — and  this  is  quoted  from  a  revelation : 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this  land  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men,  whom  I  raised  up  for  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 

OPPOSITION    OF    LUCIFER 

If  this  government  was  established  by  God  our  Father,  no  argument 
should  be  necessary  to  convince  you  that  anti-Christ  is  opposed  to  it. 
Lucifer  is  the  enemy  of  God  and  Christ  his  Son.  His  minions  have 
always  been  arrayed  against  them.  He  fights  to  lead  men  away  from 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  Never  have  his  emissaries  been  more 
active  than  at  the  present  time.  The  very  elements  appear  to  combine 
to  bring  confusion  and  tribulation  to  the  people  of  this  troubled  world  of 
ours.  Both  physical  and  spiritual  forces  are  at  work  to  effect  and 
accomplish  if  possible  our  ruin. 

Shall  Christ  or  Lucifer  triumph  in  this  conflict?  This  government 
of  ours  and  all  other  governments  need  the  strength  of  the  Church.  It 
was  by  Christian  people  under  God  that  our  government  was  founded 
and  has  been  maintained.  I  have  faith  in  the  soul  of  the  American 
people.  They  may  stumble,  they  may  waver,  wicked  men  may  for  a 
time  seize  control  of  the  affairs  of  government,  but  even  though  con- 
fronted by  chaos,  these  people  whom  the  Lord  has  brought  here  will  rise 
in  their  might  and  with  the  help  of  God  will  triumph. 

INFLUENCE  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Just  as  the  government  has  had  its  difficulties,  has  had  its  trials, 
has  been  at  times  almost  upon  the  verge  of  destruction,  so  has  the 
Church  since  its  organization.     Its  members  have  been  driven,  they 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W,  IVINS  89 

have  been  persecuted,  they  have  been  misunderstood,  and  like  Saul  of 
Tarsus,  under  the  impression  that  they  were  doing  God  service,  men 
have  endeavored  to  destroy  its  influence.  Notwithstanding  its  drivings, 
notwithstanding  the  suffering  of  its  people,  like  the  government  of  which 
we  form  a  part,  the  Church  has  become  stronger,  more  powerful  in 
influence  and  better  than  ever  before,  I  believe,  in  its  history,  and  I  say 
the  word  better  believing  it  to  be  true. 

PLEADS   FOR   LOYALTY 

I  appeal  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  all  others  who 
are  under  the  sound  of  my  voice,  or  to  whom  my  words  may  come, 
to  remain  firm  and  immovable  in  life  or  death  to  the  principles  upon 
which  this  government  of  ours  is  founded.  In  its  sphere  it  occupies 
the  same  relationship  to  our  Father  in  heaven  that  the  Church  does. 
He  is  clearly  the  author  of  both,  each  to  act  in  its  own  sphere — the 
government  for  the  temporal  protection  and  welfare  of  mankind,  and 
the  Church  for  their  spiritual  salvation. 

And  so  I  feel  impressed  to  call  upon  my  brethren  and  sisters  to 
support  and  magnify  and  do  their  duty  to  both  the  State  and  the  Church. 
We  need  the  sympathetic  support  of  government  wherever  we  are. 
You  mission  presidents  who  go  into  the  field  to  proclaim  the  glad 
tidings  of  the  restoration,  my  first  act  would  be  to  get  in  harmony  with 
the  civil  officers  of  the  country  in  which  I  labored. 

We  are  frequently  oppressed  because  people  do  not  understand 
us,  they  do  not  know  our  mission,  and  that  in  many  instances  is  because 
we  have  never  endeavored  to  impress  upon  the  minds  of  governing 
officers  the  real  mission  which  we  come  to  deliver.  So  I  say  we  require 
the  sympathetic  support  of  the  civil  law.  Without  it  Lucifer  will  sweep 
truth  from  the  earth  as  he  did  in  the  primitive  church  and  substitute  in 
its  stead  the  worship  of  idols. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  men  of  the  Church  who  may  be  present  or 
those  who  are  absent  and  may  hear  my  words,  you  doctors,  lawyers, 
bankers  and  merchants,  you  men  who  because  of  your  busy  lives  have 
forgotten  perhaps  the  full  sense  of  responsibility  to  the  Church  of  which 
you  form  a  part,  to  return  to  it,  renew  your  affiliation  with  it.  The 
Church  needs  you,  it  needs  your  intelligence,  it  needs  your  learning, 
your  wisdom,  as  you  need  the  strength  which  only  the  Church  can  afford. 
Your  fathers,  many  of  them,  laid  down  their  lives  in  its  establishment. 
Come  back  to  it  and  help  us  in  this  time  of  stress. 

I  am  sure  that  with  this  combined  strength,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  proper  union  of  the  Church  with  the  State,  and  the  proper  union 
of  the  State  with  the  Church,  we  shall  triumph.  Without  it  our  heritage 
may  pass  into  the  alien  hands  of  a  godless,  idolatrous  people.  There 
is  real  fear  of  that  except  we  faithfully  do  our  duty,  both  to  this 
government  of  ours,  the  best  there  is  in  the  world,  with  all  its  weaknesses, 
the  government  established  by  God  our  Father.  I  pledge  myself  to  be 
obedient  to  its  laws.     I  have  always  been,  and  to  the  men  who  have 


90  GENERAL   CONFERENCE 

administered  its  affairs,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  they  may  have 
weaknesses. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  keep  us  in  the  faith.  Do 
not  falter.  The  daydawn  is  breaking,  when  Christ  our  Lord  shall  come, 
not  only  to  assume  dominion  over  his  Church,  of  which  we  form  a  part, 
but  over  the  world  at  large.  It  was  by  church  people — do  not  forget — ■ 
that  this  government  was  founded  and  the  foundations  of  it  were  laid. 
It  was  by  church  people  that  the  War  of  Independence  was  fought.  It 
has  been  by  church  people  that  it  has  been  maintained,  and  it  will  be  by 
church  people  that  it  shall  be  rescued  from  chaos,  if  it  is  rescued  at  all. 
God  bless  you.    Amen. 

A  vocal  solo,  "O  rest  in  the  Lord,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  C.  G.  VanOs. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sense  deeply  the  responsibility  that  comes 
to  any  person  who  is  called  to  express  his  thoughts  to  this  large  con- 
gregation. 

This  morning's  session  has  been  an  inspiration  to  me.  The  program 
presented  by  the  tabernacle  choir  has  subdued  my  spirit,  so  much  so 
that  I  feel  the  influence  of  this  meeting  more,  it  seems  to  me,  than  I  have 
at  any  other  time.  I  am  thankful  to  be  here,  thankful  that  I  am  a 
Latter-day  Saint,  thankful  that  I  have  the  privilege  of  mingling  my  voice 
in  song  and  praise  and  prayer  in  this  conference. 

Let  me  first  express  my  deep  appreciation  for  my  brethren  who 
have  passed  away,  Brother  Brigham  H.  Roberts  and  Brother  James 
E.  Talmage.  I  became  acquainted  with  Brother  Roberts  sometime  in 
the  year  1886,  in  England.  He  was  then  but  thirty  years  of  age.  I 
admired  him.  He  taught  the  Gospel  to  me  as  no  other  person  had  done 
previously.  It  was  my  privilege  to  sing  for  him  as  he  preached  the 
Gospel  in  the  neighborhood  where  I  lived.  The  second  Sunday  after  I 
arrived  in  Salt  Lake  I  heard  Brother  Talmage  preach  in  the  old  19th 
Ward  chapel,  and  that  sermon  I  shall  always  remember.  His  subject 
was :  "Thou  Shalt  Have  No  Other  Gods  Before  Me."  Since  the  year 
1889  we  have  been  close  friends.    I  miss  both  of  these  brethren. 

I  was  glad  that  Aunt  Susa  Young  Gates  was  remembered  among 
those  who  have  passed  away  since  our  last  conference.  She  was  my 
neighbor.  Sister  Gates  was  devoted  to  her  religion.  She  had  a  wonder- 
ful understanding  of  the  Gospel.  I  admired  her  for  her  devotion  to 
this  great  work  and  the  honor  that  she  manifested  toward  the  Priesthood. 

At  the  Stake  Clerks'  meeting  held  yesterday  I  said  that  we  do  not 
need  to  be  told  anything  new  half  so  much  as  we  need  to  be  reminded 
of  the  things  we  already  know.  This  thought  has  been  constantly  in  my 
mind  during  the  sessions  of  this  conference. 

The  life  of  the  Master  is  always  most  interesting  to  me.  I  like 
to  follow  his  footsteps  while  he  was  here  in  mortality. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS  91 

When  the  Master  was  traveling  toward  Caesarea  Philippi  accom- 
panied by  his  disciples,  a  marvelous  testimony  came  to  them.  He 
asked  them  the  question :  "Whom  say  ye  that  I  am  ?"  And  they  answered 
him,  Peter  being  spokesman:  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God."  After  that  he  told  them  many  things  about  his  ministry, 
and  particularly  about  his  death.    He  admonished  them  in  this  manner : 

"For  what  is!  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul?" 

Evidently  he  was  preparing  these  twelve  men  for  their  important 
duties  in  the  establishment  of  his  Church. 

On  another  occasion  a  rich  young  man,  a  ruler  among  the  Jews, 
came  to  him  seeking  instructions.  I  will  read  what  Matthew  has 
recorded  regarding  the  incident: 

"And,  behold,  one  came  and  said  unto  him,  Good  Master,  what  good  thing 
shall  I  do,  that  I  may  have  eternal  life? 

"And  he  said  unto  him,  Why  callest  thou  me  good?  there  is  none  good  but 
one,  that  is,  God :  but  if  thou  wilt  enter  into  life,  keep  the  commandments." 

I  have  thought  of  that  as  the  keynote  of  this  conference. 

"He  saith  unto  him,  Which?  Jesus  said,  Thou  shalt  do  no  murder,  Thou 
shalt  not  commit  adultery,  Thou  shalt  not  steal,  Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness. 

"Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother:  and,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself. 

"The  young  man  saith  unto  him,  all  these  things  have  I  kept  from  my  youth 
up:  what  lack  I  yet? 

"Jesus  said  unto  him,  If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go  and  sell  that  thou  hast, 
and  give  to  the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure  in  heaven :  and  come  and  follow 
me. 

"But  when  the  young  man  heard  that  saying,  he  went  away  sorrowful :  for 
he  had  great  possessions." 

Let  us  consider  these  incidents  in  the  light  of  our  present  condi- 
tions. 

Depressions  like  the  one  we  are  passing  through  come  periodically. 
We  are  never  prepared  for  them.  We  soon  forget  the  experiences  of 
previous  depressions.  We  again  ride  on  the  high  tide  of  prosperity  for 
a  few  years,  followed  by  another  reaction  similar  to  the  present  one. 
The  living  conditions  of  every  person  in  the  country  have  been  affected. 
Property  values  have  fallen.  The  selling  price  of  the  products  of  the 
soil  and  the  mill  have  been  materially  reduced  and  the  purchasing  power 
of  the  people  seriously  impaired. 

It  has  been  stated  that  when  Martin  Luther  commenced  his  great 
reform  movement  (which  after  all  was  a  preparatory  movement  for  the 
establishment  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  through  the  instrumentality 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith)  the  Pope  sent  word  to  a  high  church 
official  to  "stop  that  monk's  mouth  with  gold."  This  official  reported 
back:  "The  fool  doesn't  love  gold."  Was  he  a  fool?  I  believe  not. 
There  are  many  things  more  valuable  and  more  lasting  than  the  pos- 
session of  wealth.    Pitiable  is  the  poverty  of  the  soul  of  one  who  works 


92  •  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

for  earthly  riches  alone.  The  great  elevating  force  in  our  lives  is  our 
spiritual  growth. 

Those  who  are  in  business  or  who  follow  commercial  pursuits 
require  an  accounting  from  time  to  time  to  ascertain  whether  or  not 
the  business  or  pursuit  they  follow  is  profitable.  At  frequent  intervals 
an  inventory  is  taken  of  the  condition  of  the  business.  A  statement 
of  the  business  is  prepared.  If  he  is  a  wise  business  man,  he  will  closely 
examine  the  balance  sheet  which  will  show  his  assets  and  liabilities. 
This  is  the  usual  routine  of  commercial  life. 

It  has  been  said  by  many  that  the  merchant  or  business  man  who 
never  takes  an  inventory  nor  has  prepared  for  him  a  balance  sheet,  will 
run  the  risk  of  becoming  bankrupt  through  ignorance  of  the  condition 
of  his  business ;  and  so  I  say  that  a  man  who  never  takes  an  inventory 
and  balance  sheet  of  himself  will  run  the  risk  of  intellectual  and  spiritual 
bankruptcy. 

We  are  now  in  the  last  quarter  of  the  year.  Like  other  years,  it 
began  with  new  hopes,  new  resolutions  and  perhaps  a  few  new  oppor- 
tunities. Would  it  not  be  proper  for  us  to  take  an  inventory  ot  our 
general  conduct  as  Latter-day  Saints  and  see  if  we  are  increasing  our 
spiritual  assets  and  decreasing  our  spiritual  liabilities? 

Brother  Nephi  Jensen  has  given  a  definition  of  spirituality : 

"Spirituality  is  that  liveliness  of  spirit  that  intensifies  appreciation  of  the 
beautiful,  deepens  loyalty  to  truth  and  kindles  love  for  the  good;  it  puts  the  heart 
in  harmony  with  the  moral  forces  of  the  world;  promotes  delight  in  the  realiza- 
tion of  high  ideals;  and  quickens  in  the  heart  the  joyousi  glory  of  being  in  actual 
partnership  with  God  in  the  purification  and  ennoblement  of  mankind." 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  Master's  injunction: 

"Lay  not  up  for  yourselves  treasures  upon  the  earth,  where  moth  and  rust 
doth  corrupt,  and  thieves  break  through  and  steal,  but  rather  lay  up  for  yourselves 
treasures  in  heaven,  where  neither  moth  nor  rust  doth  corrupt  and  thieves  do  not 
break  through  and  steal.    For  where  your  treasure  is  there  will  your  heart  be  also." 

Now  does  our  spiritual  balance  sheet  show  that  we  have  been  more 
helpful  in  the  stake  and  ward  where  we  live?  Does  it  show  that  we 
have  developed  those  priceless  attributes,  dependability  and  loyalty? 
Does  it  show  that  we  have  observed  the  Sabbath  day  and  kept  it  holy; 
that  we  have  paid  our  tithes  and  offerings?  Can  the  people  about  us 
say  that  we  are  good  neighbors?  Does  this  balance  sheet  show  that 
we  have  kept  the  Word  of  Wisdom  ?  Does  it  show  that  we  have  done 
all  that  has  been  required  of  us  in  the  service  of  the  Lord  and  his 
Church?  If  so,  we  are  increasing  in  spirituality  and  our  assets  are  grow- 
ing. 

Now  let  us  examine  the  other  side  of  the  balance  sheet.  Our 
spiritual  liabilities  will  increase  when  we  do  not  observe  the  Sabbath 
day,  when  we  are  law  breakers,  when  we  fail  to  pay  an  honest  tithing  to 
the  Lord,  when  we  fail  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  when  others 
have  to  labor  with  us  to  keep  us  interested  in  the  Church.     If  our 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS  93 

spiritual  liabilities  are  increasing,  isn't  it  time  to  ask  ourselves  the 
question : 

"For  what  is  a  man  profited,  if  he  shall  gain  the  whole  world,  and  lose  his 
own  soul  ?  or  what  shall  a  man  give  in  exchange  for  his  soul  ?" 

Several  years  ago  there  came  into  my  possession  a  leaflet  which 
contained  the  following  questions :  Am  I  really  and  truly  interested  in 
my  membership  in  the  Church?  What  am  I  doing  to  prove  that 
interest?  How  do  I  look  to  the  man  on  the  outside?  Can  he  tell  by 
my  actions  that  I  am  living  the  Gospel?  Am  I  a  good  example  for 
anyone  to  follow?  Would  my  Bishop  classify  me  as  useful,  active, 
faithful,  or  would  he  classify  me  as  just  one  of  his  members? 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  see  that  our  spiritual  assets  are 
increasing  and  that  our  spiritual  liabilities  are  decreasing;  that  in  spite 
of  poverty,  disappointments  and  financial  reverses,  we  do  increase  in 
faith,  keeping  always  in  mind  the  saying  of  the  Master,  "If  ye  love 
me,  keep  my  commandments."  We  can  show  our  love  for  the  Master 
by  keeping  his  commandments. 

I  am  thankful  for  the  Gospel,  for  my  membership  in  the  Church, 
for  the  testimony  that  has  come  to  me.  I  testify  to  you  that  I  know 
this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  the  living 
God,  that  he  was  raised  up  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  great  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times. 

Let  us  constantly  remind  ourselves  of  our  obligation  to  our  Father 
in  Heaven,  to  this  Church,  and  to  one  another,  that  we  may  grow  in 
spiritual  power  and  usefulness  in  this  great  latter-day  work,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  believe  that  this  is  the  eleventh  time  that  I  have  had  the  privilege 
of  representing  the  Western  States  Mission  before  a  congregation  in 
this  tabernacle,  and  it  is  the  last  time  that  I  shall  have  that  privilege, 
since  I  have  been  transferred  into  another  field  of  labor.  I  have  had 
extreme  pleasure  in  the  labor  that  has  been  assigned  to  me,  and  Sister 
Woodruff  has  enjoyed  it  with  me.  We  have  had  a  very  pleasant  ex- 
perience. We  have  labored  in  the  mission  among  many  happy  people 
in  a  delightful  part  of  the  country.  Our  experiences  have  been  of  great 
benefit  and  blessing  to  us.    We  are  very  grateful  for  them. 

I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  say  a  few  things  about  that 
mission  that  I  hope  will  be  interesting  to  you  and  appropriate  to  this 
occasion.  In  the  first  place  let  me  speak  a  word  with  reference  to  the 
city  of  Denver.  I  had  no  idea  of  the  beauty  of  that  city  until  I  went 
there  to  live  nor  of  the  fine  people  who  live  there,  and  the  splendid  spirit 
of  civic  pride  apparent  in  that  city.    On  every  hand  we  have  met  with 


94  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

courtesy,  kindness  and  consideration  at  the  hands  of  the  public  officials 
and  the  good  people  of  the  city.  Denver  is  a  city  of  beauty  and  a  city 
of  extreme  civic  pride.  Her  streets  are  beautiful  and  clean  and  lined 
with  shade  trees  ;  miles  upon  miles  of  beautiful  streets  with  lovely  homes. 

You  may  not  know  that  Denver  is  the  second  federal  city  in  America. 
We  are  told  that  more  federal  employees  reside  in  Denver  than  in  any 
other  city  except  Washington,  D.  C.  There  are  beautiful  federal  build- 
ings there  and  of  course  a  number  of  our  own  people  who  are  in  civil 
service  find  themselves  in  the  city  of  Denver.  They  attend  our  branch, 
and  participate  in  our  worship  and  in  our  activities.  The  branch  at 
Denver  is  one  of  the  splendid  little  congregations  that  make  up  this 
Church.  They  do  things  quite  on  a  par  with  some  of  the  best  wards 
in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  The  people  there  are  ambitious  to  serve  the 
Lord  and  to  do  his  will  as  well  as  they  can. 

On  the  other  hand  we  have  many  small  and  remote  branches  where 
Latter-day  Saints  live,  because  their  occupations  take  them  there,  some 
of  them  from  the  stakes  of  Zion.-  They  are  just  as  anxious  as  they  are 
elsewhere,  but  they  do  not  ha.ve  the  opportunity  at  times  to  do  as  well 
outwardly  as  they  appear  to  do  in  better  organized  centers. 

For  instance,  in  the  city  of  Omaha,  the  moving  of  the  Union  Pacific 
offices  took  a  number  of  our  brethren  there,  some  of  them  who  had  ex- 
perience in  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  are  well  trained  in  the  Church.  And 
what  a  blessing  they  were  to  those  who  had  already  settled  in  Omaha. 
They  came  in  with  a  wonderful  spirit  of  humility  and  broke  down  the 
old  barriers  of  prejudice  that  had  so  long  existed  there  among  the  local 
converts  against  so-called  Utah  Mormons.  I  believe  for  the  first  time- 
to  my  knowledge  at  least — we  have  a  fine  spirit  of  harmony  between 
the  two  classes  of  Latter-day  Saints,  if  Latter-day  Saints  may  be  classed. 

Then  we  have  remote  districts,  even  small  districts.  I  could  refer 
you  to  a  little  place  at  Lordsburg,  New  Mexico,  where  we  have  four 
women  composing  a  Relief  Society.  I  remember  meeting  with  them  on 
a  June  day,  when  the  temperature  was  112.  Of  these  four  women  one 
of  them  was  president,  two  of  them  were  counselors,  and  the  other  was 
the  secretary  of  the  organization.  The  question  arose,  Is  it  worth  while 
to  try  to  hold  a  Relief  Society  when  there  are  only  four  women  who 
belong  to  it?  Well  I  had  to  prove  that  it  was,  and  so  I  said,  "If  there 
were  forty  of  you,  would  you  be  happy?" 

"Why  of  course  we  would  think  it  was  wonderful." 

"Well,  now,  if  there  were  forty  of  you,  you  would  only  have  one- 
tenth  the  opportunity  you  now  have  to  participate." 

"Well,  maybe  that  is  true.    We  will  try  to  be  happy  and  carry  on." 

So  you  see  we  have  every  type  of  condition  existing,  and  the  people 
do  carry  on.  We  try  to  organize  little  family  Sunday  Schools  in  those 
remote  districts,  where  one  or  two  or  three  families  come  together,  and 
the  wonderful  outlines  that  have  been  provided  by  the  General  Board 
make  it  possible  for  them  to  conduct  lessons  quite  satisfactorily.  And 
so  the  problem  before  us  in  the  mission  is  to  keep  everybody  doing 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF  95 

something  and  happy  in  the  circumstances  with  which  they  are  sur- 
rounded. 

We  have  twenty-three  elders  in  the  mission  and  eleven  sisters,  or 
thirty-four  missionaries.  When  I  first  took  charge  of  the  mission  we 
had  nearly  one  hundred  and  forty.  With  twenty-six  organized  branches 
there  is  not  an  elder  to  every  branch,  so  the  branches  have  to  get  along 
without  them,  and  the  elders  have  to  be  scattered  over  the  districts  as 
widely  as  we  can  scatter  them.  Two  elders  cover  the  whole  area  of 
New  Mexico,  trying  to  minister  to  the  spiritual  needs  of  the  people,  to 
baptize  the  children  that  arrive  at  the  age  of  eight  years,  to  bless  the 
children  who  are  born,  to  administer  to  the  sick,  and  bury  the  dead, 
as  far  as  they  reach  them. 

In  the  western  part  of  the  state  of  Colorado,  another  great  area, 
only  two  elders  are  laboring.  The  whole  state  of  Wyoming,  outside  of 
the  stakes,  and  the  south  part  of  South  Dakota — that  is  the  Black  Hills 
section — and  the  extreme  western  part  of  Nebraska  are  covered  by  only 
two  elders.  In  east  Nebraska,  in  Council  Bluffs  and  Lincoln,  and  that 
great  section  of  the  country,  there  are  four  elders  and  two  sisters.  In 
Denver — in  the  whole  Denver  district,  which  means  the  northwest  quar- 
ter of  Colorado — there  are  two  elders  and  two  sisters.  So  you  may 
understand  how  inadequately  we  are  equipped  so  far  as  the  help  of  mis- 
sionaries is  concerned.  But  the  people  are  happy,  they  are  trying  to 
serve  the  Lord,  and  locally  the  people  are  willing  to  go  out  and  do  mis- 
sionary work,  but  their  labors  are  confined  to  the  radius  of  their  own 
homes,  they  cannot  go  abroad. 

I  rejoice  that  my  brethren  have  seen  fit  to  honor  me  and  to  trust 
me  with  further  responsibility.  Sister  Woodruff  and  I  will  leave  the 
Western  States  Mission  reluctantly,  but  grateful  for  our  privileges,  and 
we  hope  to  go  into  the  Central  States  Mission  and  labor  as  nearly  as 
we  can  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God.  If  we  can  do  that  and 
discharge  our  duty  and  obligation  the  Lord  will  bless  us,  but  if  we  think 
of  ourselves  we  shall  not  succeed. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and  I  know 
from  my  experience  that  if  I  can  just  keep  in  harmony  with  his  Holy 
Spirit  everything  will  go  splendidly.  When  I  do  not  do  that  it  is  difficult 
to  carry  on,  for  no  man  can  do  the  work  of  God  except  he  keeps  himself 
clean  and  sweet  and  worthy  of  his  blessings.  My  testimony  is  that 
this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion, that  if  we  will  humbly  serve  the  Lord  we  need  not  fear,  for  we 
shall  stand  in  safe  places,  no  matter  what  happens.  If  this  people  could 
believe  the  word  of  God  and  would  believe  it  as  it  is  expressed  by  his 
servants,  their  troubles  would  end  and  we  would  be  happy  and  singing 
as  the  days  go  by,  for  the  Lord  has  promised,  through  his  servants, 
that  the  wicked  may  be  destroyed,  but  the  righteous  need  not  fear. 

May  God  help  us  to  put  our  trust  in  him  and  serve  him,  I  humbly 
ask,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


96  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  am  thankful  this  morning  that  I  find  myself  in  perfect  accord 
with  the  teachings  of  this  great  conference.  I  have  rejoiced  in  the 
sessions  that  have  been  held  in  which  President  Grant  was  one  of  the 
speakers. 

As  I  stand  before  this  microphone  I  am  reminded  that  every  time 
I  have  returned  home  from  conference  so  many  people  have  said : 
"President  Sloan,  we  heard  your  voice  over  the  radio."  In  our  mission 
today  thousands  and  thousands  of  people  are  listening  to  the  services 
of  this  great  conference,  and  as  I  have  pleaded  with  my  people  in  the 
years  that  have  passed,  so  I  plead  today  with  you,  follow  the  President 
of  this  Church  and  you  will  never  go  astray.  To  those  who  may  be  in 
Alaska  who  know  my  voice,  those  in  Oregon,  Washington,  Montana 
and  northern  Idaho,  and  before  this  great  assemblage  of  people,  may  I 
make  this  plea,  keep  your  eyes  on  the  President  of  this  Church  and 
you  will  never  go  astray.    God  bless  this  work. 

We  are  now  enjoying  in  our  mission  many  of  the  opportunities 
of  today.  Never  before  have  such  glorious  privileges  been  given.  We 
have  only  fifteen  elders  and  an  equal  number  of  lady  missionaries,  thirty 
in  all,  yet  our  converts  are  in  excess  of  the  converts  made  a  year  ago. 
In  the  thrity-odd  branches  in  our  mission  over  two-thirds  of  them 
exceed  in  the  amount  of  tithes  paid  for  the  nine  months  of  1933  as  com- 
pared with  1932.  We  are  growing,  much  interest  is  being  manifest  in 
our  work,  and  the  Lord  is  blessing  our  efforts. 

I  should  like  to  read  an  extract  from  an  editorial  in  one  of  the 
largest  newspapers  published  in  the  northwest  in  keeping  with  the 
spirit  of  this  great  work : 

"A  recent  report  shows  that  two-thirds  of  the  inmates  of  Sing  Sing  and 
Auburn  prisons,  New  York,  are  under  thirty  years  of  age." 

What  a  proof  these  figures  are  that  the  home  is  not  adequately 
functioning !  The  parents  are  taking  for  granted  that  their  sons  are  safe 
and  that  the  citizen  body  and  the  courts  are  adequately  safeguarding 
the  nation's  children.  Jails  and  prisons  are  poor  substitutes  for  con- 
science. Crime  means  a  multiplication  of  criminals  and  a  multiplication 
of  convicts. 

If  we  go  on  in  our  lethargy  it  will  not  be  many  generations  until  we 
shall  have  a  nation  composed  entirely  of  convicts  or  descendents  and 
relatives  of  convicts,  in  which  case  we  shall  have  a  degenerate  people 
without  pride  of  ancestry  or  hope  of  honored  progeny,  a  prospect  that 
should  appal  all  those  who  love  their  country. 

The  sacredness  of  the  American  home  is  at  stake.  I  appeal  to  my 
brethren  and  sisters  to  safeguard  your  homes. 

"Home  ain't  a  place  that  gold  can  buy 

or  get  up  in  a  minute ; 
Afore  it's  home  there's1  got  to  be 
a  heap   o'  livin'  in  it." 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN  97 

I  am  not  apprehensive  for  the  youth  of  this  Church  today,  but  I 
am  vitally  concerned  with  the  fathers  and  mothers.  What  is  your 
example?  What  is  your  conduct?  What  is  your  loyalty  towards  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States?  What  is  your  loyalty  to  this  great 
Church  and  your  God?  The  Lord  warned  this  Church  in  a  revelation 
that  he  was  not  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  for  there  were 
many  idlers  among  them,  and  their  children  were  growing  up  in  wicked- 
ness.   Are  they  following  in  the  footsteps  of  us  their  parents  ? 

"A   father  and   his  tiny  son 
Crossed  a  rough  street  one  stormy  day, 
'See  papa,'  cried  the  little  one, 
'I  stepped  in  your  steps  all  the  way.' 
***** 

"If  this  man  shirks  his  manhood's  due 
And  heeds  what  lying  voices   say, 
It  isn't  one  that  falls,  but  two, 
'I  stepped  in  your  steps  all  the  way.' " 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  exemplary  in  your  leader- 
ship as  parents  in  the  home,  as  leaders  in  the  Church  and  in  the  com- 
munity. I  bear  testimony  to  you  of  my  hope,  of  my  faith,  of  my  belief  to 
my  entire  satisfaction  that  this  is  God's  work,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends — and  I  say  friends  because 
I  realize  that  perhaps  many  of  this  congregation  have  not  as  yet  allied 
themselves  with  this  great  Latter-day  work,  and  there  are  also  many  of 
the  unseen  audience  who  are  listening  in  upon  this  occasion,  and  they 
are  our  friends,  and  we  are  their  friends.  We  are  all  brethren  and 
sisters,  sons  and  daughters  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  he  is  mindful 
of  all  of  us. 

I  am  very  pleased  to  bring  to  you  greetings  from  your  sons  and 
daughters  and  relatives  who  are  now  laboring  in  the  East  Central  States 
Mission.  The  work  is  progressing  in  that  part  of  the  land,  and  we  are 
meeting  with  success.  During  these  services  my  mind  has  been  drawn 
back  many  times  to  the  work  that  is  being  carried  on  there. 

Yesterday  I  received  a  report  to  the  effect  that  last  Sunday  three 
honest  souls  made  a  trip  of  some  fifty  miles  to  the  city  of  Louisville  in 
order  that  they  might  receive  the  ordinance  of  baptism.  This  was  the 
result  of  the  labors  of  some  of  the  Saints  who  had  been  working  with 
those  people.  They  came  there  for  the  purpose  of  receiving  the  birth 
of  water  and  of  the  Spirit. 

A  short  time  ago  Sister  Jones  and  I  made  a  visit  of  some  fifty  or 
sixty  miles  into  the  country  to  visit  a  family  of  Saints.  They  had 
gathered  together  a  number  of  their  neighbors  and  asked  that  we  speak 
to  them,  which  we  did.    We  stood  upon  the  ground  where  a  few  years 


98  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

ago  the  elders  were  disturbed  and  a  meeting  broken  up.  At  the  conclu- 
sion of  our  meeting,  and  since  then,  we  have  received  several  invitations 
to  come  back,  or  have  the  elders  go  and  labor  a  week  or  so  in  that  neigh- 
borhood, and  I  have  received  information  to  the  effect  that  two  of  the 
elders  are  down  there  now  holding  a  series  of  meetings,  and  I  am  very 
much  interested  as  to  the  results. 

There  are  wonderful  opportunities  in  all  directions  for  us  to  reach 
the  people  and  deliver  our  message  to  them. 

During  the  course  of  President  Ivins'  remarks  this  morning,  when 
he  referred  to  those  who  came  to  this  land  years  ago,  my  mind  reverted 
back  to  what  I  read  of  early  history  when  I  was  a  boy  at  school,  as  to 
the  Pilgrim  fathers  more  particularly.  They  came  to  this  land  after 
being  persecuted  in  the  land  in  which  they  lived. 

In  1906,  while  laboring  as  a  missionary  in  England,  at  the  invitation 
of  President  Grant,  a  number  of  missionaries,  including  myself,  ac- 
companied him  to  the  Netherlands  Mission.  While  in  Holland  we  took 
the  opportunity  of  visiting  the  city  of  Delftshaven,  where  is  located 
a  beautiful  chapel,  in  which  the  Pilgrim .  fathers  worshipped  the  Lord 
after  coming  down  the  canal  out  of  the  land  of  Holland.  From  there 
they  crossed  the  channel  to  Southampton,  from  which  place  they  took 
their  journey  to  this  land.  They  landed  and  settled  in  some  of  the 
states  that  now  comprise  the  East  Central  States  Mission,  more  par- 
ticularly North  Carolina  and  Virginia.  As  I  travel  through  those  old 
places,  such  as  Georgetown  and  Jamestown,  and  other  places  on  my 
way  to  and  from  Portsmouth  and  Norfolk,  I  cannot  help  but  feel  im- 
pressed with  the  sacredness  of  those  spots  where  the  Pilgrim  fathers 
settled  in  early  days  in  order  that  they  might  worship  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  their  own  conscience.  As  people  in  those  sections  come 
into  the  Church  today,  we  find  almost  invariably  that  they  are  descend- 
ants of  the  Pilgrim  fathers  and  others  who  settled  that  land,  and  thus 
we  can  in  a  way  account  for  the  wonderful  success  of  the  work,  because 
those  noble  sons  and  daughters  in  early  days  came  to  this  land  where 
they  might  worship  God  as  they  saw  fit. 

I  recall  now  an  account  that  I  read  in  a  paper  a  few  years  ago  of 
a  very  prominent  official  of  the  United  States  visiting  the  president  of 
one  of  the  South  American  republics.  As  they  sat  upon  the  verandb 
and  were  talking  over  the  situation,  the  President  said  to  this  official, 
"How  is  it  that  North  America  has  advanced  so  much  more  rapidly 
than  has  South  America,  nothwithstanding  we  have  more  natural  re- 
sources, more  varieties  of  timber,  more  water  power  and  more  minerals 
of  all  kinds,  also  all  kinds  of  fruit  and  vegetation?  Notwithstanding 
these  advantages  North  America  has  forged  ahead  of  South  America." 

The  American  official  in  a  characteristic  Yankee  way  evaded  the 
question,  and  asked  the  President  what  his  view  of  it  was.  The  Presi- 
dent said :  "The  only  answer  I  can  give  is  this :  those  who  settled  South 
America  came  here  in  search  of  gold,  while  those  who  settled  North 
America  came  in  search  of  God." 

And  that  seems  to  be  the  solution  of  the  question.    It  also  accounts 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES  99 

for  so  many  today  listening  to  the  Gospel  message  as  it  is  presented  to 
them. 

I  am  thankful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  have  been  counted 
worthy,  along  with  these  other  brethren,  of  going  into  the  world  and 
carrying  this  message  of  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  to  those  who  sit  in 
darkness,  and  there  is  nothing  in  all  the  world  that  will  bring  more  joy 
and  happiness  to  the  souls  of  men  or  women  than  that  which  comes  to 
a  person  when  someone  can  come  to  him  and  say,  "Thank  God,  you  are 
the  one  who  brought  the  light  of  the  Gospel  into  my  home  and  into  my 
life."  There  are  many  of  your  sons  and  daughters  today  that  can  bear 
witness  to  that  fact. 

God  bless  the  youth  of  Zion.  May  they  be  kept  in  the  paths  of  truth 
and  righteousness  and  virtue,  that  they  may  prepare  themselves  for  the 
great  responsibility  that  will  rest  upon  them,  because  it  is  only  a  matter 
of  time  when  they  will  be  called  to  carry  on  this  great  work.  God  bless 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  who  have  charge  of  the  work  in  the  various 
branches  of  the  Church,  and  in  all  auxiliary  organizations.  May  you 
have  the  power,  the  spirit,  and  the  wisdom  to  carry  on  your  work,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

For  the  very  first  time  during  my  administration  I  have  not  had  to 
tell  anyone  how  long  he  should  talk.  I  am  very  happy  indeed  that  we 
have  got  this  far  along  without  limiting  any  of  our  brethren,  but  they 
have  had  the  opportunity  of  saying  as  much  as  they  wanted  to  say. 

However,  I  am  thoroughly  converted  in  my  own  mind  that  the 
reason  we  have  done  so  well  is  that  two  of  the  Apostles  are  in  Europe 
and  one  other  is  sick.    I  think  that  accounts  for  it. 

According  to  the  count  that  was  made,  there  were  10,784  people 
in  the  building  at  this  morning's  session. 

Many  of  the  good  people  whose  sons  and  daughters  are  in  the 
mission  field  are  anxious  to  meet  the  Mission  Presidents.  I  shall  ask 
Brother  Joseph  S.  Peery  to  open  a  room  in  the  Bureau  of  Information 
where  the  Mission  Presidents  can  meet  any  of  the  Saints  who  want  to 
inquire  regarding  their  missionary  sons  and  daughters. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

After  announcing  that  the  choir  would  sing  the  anthem,  "Song  of 
the  Redeemed,"  by  Evan  Stephens,  President  Grant  made  this  comment : 

Three  years  ago,  at  the  Sunday  morning  session  of  the  Conference, 
this  song  was  sung  by  the  choir  under  the  direction  of  the  author,  Pro- 
fessor Evan  Stephens,  who  shortly  after  returning  to  his  home,  follow- 
ing the  meeting,  became  ill  and  later  passed  away.  We  owe  a  very  deep 
debt  of  gratitude  to  Brother  Evan  Stephens,  Brother  George  Careless, 
Brother  Ebenezer  Beesley,  Brother  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  and  many  others 
for  the  marvelous  music  they  have  composed. 


100  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

The  Choir  sang  "The  Song  of  the  Redeemed,"  after  which  Elder 
S.  Taylor  Farnsworth,  President  of  the  Beaver  Stake  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Sunday  afternoon, 
October  8,  at  2  o'clock.  Once  more  the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded 
to  capacity,  and  thousands  of  people  who  could  not  find  accommodation 
in  that  building  gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  upon  the  Tabernacle 
grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  services  by  means  of  amplifiers  that 
had  been  provided  for  the  purpose,  as  the  proceedings  were  broadcast 
from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  "Hosanna  Anthem"  by  Stephens. 

Elder  Roy  A.  Welker,  President  of  the  Bear  Lake  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  sacred  anthem,  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills,"  (Stephens) 
was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  sincerely  hope  that  the  spirit  which 
has  thus  far  characterized  this  conference  may  be  continued  in  what  I 
may  say  to  you  today.  I  trust  that  whatever  I  shall  say  may  bring 
something  of  hope,  of  cheer,  something  to  encourage  and  lead  us  onward 
in  this  great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

I  should  like  first  to  pay  a  tribute  to  the  wonderful  broadcast  which 
we  had  this  morning.  I  think  I  can  definitely  see  an  improvement  in 
the  Choir  over  even  their  excellence  of  six  months  ago.  I  congratulate 
them.  To  Brother  Lund  and  to  Brother  Asper  I  also  extend  my  con- 
gratulations ;  likewise  to  Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  for  his  choicely 
worded  announcements.  I  should  like  to  say  to  the  choir  that  in  my 
opinion  the  secret  of  their  success  is  that  they  are  rendering  gratuitous 
service  for  the  up-building  of  the  culture  and  the  faith,  not  alone  of  our 
people,  but  of  the  people  of  the  entire  world. 

GIVES    ENCOURAGEMENT 

We  ofttimes  hear  it  said  that  there  should  be  art  for  art's  sake, 
and  I  am  persuaded  that  in  those  great  cultural  occupations  of  music 
and  art  it  is  necessary  that  it  shall  be  art  for  art's  sake,  and  furthermore 
that  so  soon  as  any  individual  or  organization  begins  to  commercialize 
itself  in  art  and  music  it  ceases  to  do  the  work  which  otherwise  it  would 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  101 

do.  I  say  this  by  way  of  encouragement  to  this  great  Choir,  which  is  so 
fatihful  in  the  performance  of  its  duty. 

Service  for  service'  sake  is  a  great  truth. 

I  wish  also  to  say  a  few  words  regarding  the  great  Crusaders  who 
were  with  us  at  our  last  conference,  and  who  have  been  called  hence, 
Brother  James  E.  Talmage,  who  was  a  life-long  friend,  and  Brother 
Brigham  H.  Roberts  of  whom  I  know  through  his  works.  They  were 
great  captains  of  the  Lord's  hosts.  They  did  a  great  work;  they  were 
armored  in  truth ;  they  loved  truth  for  truth's  sake ;  they  did  not  depend 
upon  the  approval  of  the  world  for  their  inspiration  nor  for  their 
courage.  While  I  am  sure  they  enjoyed  the  approval  of  the  world,  they 
worked  in  spite  of  it. 

Sometimes  I  feel  that  we  are  prone  to  look  even  as  little  children 
for  commendation  from  the  world  for  what  we  do  and  what  we  believe 
and  how  we  work.  It  is  not  a  compliment  to  me  for  any  non-member 
to  tell  me  that  I  am  a  human  being.  We,  the  people  of  the  Lord,  stand 
for  the  greatest  principles  which  have  been  revealed  to  humanity.  We 
have  no  reason  to  excuse,  no  cause  for  apology. 

ANTI-CHRIST    PREDICTED 

Brother  Ivins  referred  this  morning  to  the  words  of  the  Savior 
given  in  reply  to  the  question  of  the  disciples :  "What  shall  be  the  sign 
of  thy  coming?"  and  to  the  fact  that  great  upheavals,  political  and 
physical,  were  predicted,  and  that  anti-Christs  should  arise. 

I  wonder,  sometimes,  if  we  do  not,  in  considering  those  things,  focus 
our  attention  too  much  upon  the  physical  and  political  upheavals,  and 
too  little  upon  the  other  side  of  that  prophecy,  the  false  and  anti-  Christ. 
I  wonder  also  whether,  when  we  read  these  things,  we  do  not  think  of 
false  personages  pretending  to  be  Christ,  when  perhaps  the  Savior  had 
some  other  meaning,  because  he  spoke  of  the  prophets  of  the  anti-Christ. 
I  think  he  had  in  mind  and  wished  to  warn  us  against  false  and  vicious 
teachings. 

HERESY    PREVAILS 

The  world  today  is  torn  with  heresy ;  it  seems  as  if  the  more 
fantastic  the  plan  and  the  idea,  the  more  ready  we  are  to  listen,  and 
sometimes  to  follow.  It  seems  to  me  that  we  have  broken  loose  from 
the  moorings  which  we  once  had,  that  we  have  permitted  our  minds 
to  leave  those  places  in  which  they  found  peace  and  rest  and  to  seek 
new  places  where  neither  peace  nor  rest  is  to  be  found. 

What  more  anti-Christ  doctrine  could  there  be  than  that  which  we 
so  frequently  hear  nowadays,  that  Christianity  has  failed.  How  could 
Christianity  fail  in  this  world,  because  so  far  as  I  know,  Christianity  has 
not  yet  been  tried.  When  the  world  lives  the  principles  which  the  Savior 
gave  unto  us,  when  the  world  becomes  really  and  truly  Christian,  then 
it  will  be  time  enough  to  cast  the  score  as  to  whether  Christianity  has 
failed  or  succeeded.  An  apostate  generation  may  not  judge  and  condemn 
truth. 


102  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

CIVILIZATION    HAS   NOT   FAILED 

How  equally  unfortunate,  as  it  seems  to  me,  is  that  statement 
that  our  civilization  has  failed.  We  say  that  usually  because  some  of 
us  unfortunately  have  not  had  so  much  of  the  material  things  of  life  as 
we  once  had.  Civilization  has  not  failed.  It  has,  in  the  past,  sometimes 
paused;  it  has  sometimes  halted,  but  looking  at  the  whole  course  of 
history  it  has  constantly  gone  forward,  rising  from  every  such  pause  and 
every  such  halt  to  higher  and  more  glorious  levels.  It  is  my  faith,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  that  such  it  will  be  when  our  present  tribulations 
are  over. 

Moreover,  there  are  some  of  us  who  go  about  saying  that  if  this, 
or  that,  or  the  other  man-made  plan  does  not  succeed,  chaos  will  result. 
It  is  my  faith,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  chaos  will  come  only  in 
the  due  time  of  the  Lord,  and  when  the  world  shall  have  fully  and 
completely  rejected  his  principles  and  his  doctrine. 

We  are  in  a  time  of  great  stress.  I  say  a  truism,  something  that 
you  all  know,  when  I  tell  you  that  some  of  us  are  somewhat  in  want. 
Many  of  us  have  lost  the  garnerings  of  a  lifetime.  Some  of  us  know 
not  how  to  turn  to  meet  our  obligations.  Some  of  us  wonder  from  where 
will  come  the  necessities  of  life  during  this  coming  winter.  Brother 
Stephen  L.  Richards  yesterday  assured  us  of  his  sympathy,  and  I  can 
assure  you  of  my  sympathy.  I  can  assure  you  of  the  sympathy  of  all 
the  brethren  in  these,  your  trying  times.  I  can  assure  you  that  they 
sorrow  with  you  over  your  privations.  I  can  assure  you  that  what  they 
can  do  they  will  do. 

But,  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  a  certain  side  of  this  depression 
that  I  wish  to  bring  to  your  attention.  For  example  :  Report  has  reached 
us  that  a  man  having  a  hundred  tons  of  hay,  two  hundred  head  of  cattle, 
four  milk  cows,  several  pigs  and  a  flock  of  chickens,  last  year  accepted 
relief. 

NECESSITIES  ONLY  PROVIDED 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  relief  is  not  for  those  who  are  in  that 
situation.  Report  has  also  come  to  me  that  in  some  cases  in  making 
this  recent  survey,  those  making  it  have  been  told  to  urge  the  people 
to  report  all  they  could  think  of  that  they  needed.  Relief  can  not  be 
carried  out  on  that  plan.  In  this  relief  work  we  must  look  forward  not 
to  the  maximum  of  our  desires,  nor  necessarily  the  maximum  of  what 
we  have  had.  Those  in  need  must  look  forward  to  the  minimum  of  their 
needs.  We  can  not  take  care  of  the  situation  on  any  other  plan.  The 
whole  people  are  not  in  a  position  to  bestow  luxury,  or  even  the  full 
comforts  to  those  in  distress.  If  those  suffering  can  be  helped  from 
actual  want,  they  will  have  as  much  as  the  whole  people  can  do. 

Brother  Grant  referred,  in  his  opening  remarks,  to  relief  from  the 
government.  I  approach  this  subject  with  a  great  deal  of  feeling  and 
strong  conviction.  The  thought  that  we  should  get  all  we  can  from 
the  government  because  everybody  else  is  getting  it,  is  unworthy  of  us 
as  American  citizens.    It  will  debauch  us.    Judged  by  my  standards  it 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  103 

is  wicked,  and  followed  out  it  will  destroy  us.  The  government  of  the 
United  States  has  not  and  can  not  supply  the  funds  necessary  to  carry 
on  relief  work  on  that  basis.  We  must  be  as  careful  with  government 
funds  as  with  our  own  or  as  with  the  Church's.  Patriotism,  loyalty, 
decency,  everything  demands  that  such  shall  be  our  course. 

COUNTRY  NEXT  TO  GOD 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  want  to  endorse  every  word  that  President 
Tvins  said  this  morning  regarding  our  government.  If  I  know  my  own 
mind  and  heart,  next  to  God,  the  author  of  my  being,  comes  my  country. 
It  has  been  my  honor  and  my  privilege  to  serve  it  in  some  more  or  less 
minor  capacities,  and  if  the  providences  of  the  Lord  shall  so  order,  1 
stand  ready  to  serve  it  again. 

This  government  of  ours  was  established  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Lord.  We  as  a  people  need  our  government.  We  must  have  the 
safeguards  which  the  Constitution  throws  around  us — freedom  of  the 
press,  freedom  of  speech,  freedom  of  conscience.  It  has  been  my  op- 
portunity during  my  life  to  stand  near  to  some  of  those  who  are  called 
great.  It  has  been  my  opportunity  to  work  among  those  who  will  always 
work  in  subordinate  capacities  in  the  government.  I  want  to  say  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  all  earnestness,  that  I  have  yet  to  see  the 
man,  however  great  he  was,  that  I  would  wish  to  see  become  a  dictator. 
Dictators  are  not  for  America,  and  the  doctrine  that  dictators  should 
rule  us  comes  from  an  evil  source. 

COURAGE  REQUIRED  OF  PIONEERS 

As  I  contemplate  our  condition  today,  and  contemplate  the  condi- 
tion of  the  pioneers  when  they  came  into  these  valleys,  I  can  but  wonder 
what  they  would  have  thought  of  our  fears,  our  apprehensions,  our  com- 
plaints. When  I  think  that  their  first  winter  was  spent  here  with  scarcely 
enough  to  carry  them  through,  and  with  no  help  nearer  than  a  thousand 
miles  by  ox  team ;  when  I  think  of  the  following  spring  when  they  had 
to  eat  roots  to  maintain  themselves ;  when  I  think  of  the  fear  that  must 
have  been  in  their  hearts  when  they  saw  the  locusts  come  in  hordes  to 
destroy  their  crops ;  when  I  think  of  how  we  are  situated,  with  an  actual 
sufficiency,  if  not  an  abundance,  with  communications  open  and  free, 
housed,  clothed  and  possibilities  of  being  fed,  it  seems  that  we  should 
take  courage,  we  should  hold  up  our  heads,  we  should  return  our  thanks 
to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  all  of  his  goodness  and  mercy  unto  us. 
Think  how  fortunate  the  pioneers  would  have  thought  themselves  to 
be  if  they  had  been  placed  as  are  we.  We  should  appreciate  the  Lord's 
blessings,  because  he  does  not  always  bless  those  who  fail  in  their 
appreciation,  and  our  prayers  should  be  not  alone  asking  for  what  we 
want,  but  expressing  gratitude  for  what  we  have.  And  after  all,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  the  temporal  things  of  life,  food  and  clothing, 
and  shelter,  amount  to  very  little,  if  we  have  enough  for  our  actual 
wants.    It  is  only  the  great  eternal  truths  that  count,  and  we  have  those 


104  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

truths,  and  we  have  a  knowledge  that  they  are  true.    We  know  that  by 
Hving  the  truth  we  shall  have  eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come. 
Peter  in  his  first  epistle  says  : 

"For  all  flesh  is  as  grass,  and  all  the  glory  of  man  as  the  flower  of  grass. 
The  grass  withereth,  and  the  flower  thereof  falleth  away; 

"But  the  word  of  the  Lord  endureth  forever.  And  this1  is  the  word  which  by  the 
Gospel  is  preached  unto  you." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  may  he  let  his  Spirit  hover  over  us,  may 
he  give  us  peace  and  courage  and  confidence,  may  he  enable  us  to 
see  the  blessings  of  what  we  have  in  order  that  we  may  hold  them, 
instead  of  flying  to  conditions  of  which  we  have  no  knowledge,  may 
he  be  with  us  individually  and  collectively,  may  he  make  of  us  a  beacon 
in  the  world  to  lead  all  to  the  true  light  of  the  Savior,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  wonderful  responsibility  to 
stand  before  a  great  congregation  like  this.  There  are  perhaps  ten 
thousand  people  in  this  building.  I  trust  that  I  may  be  strengthened 
for  the  present  ordeal. 

THOSE  WHO   BRING  GLAD  TIDINGS 

I  have  enjoyed  every  moment  of  the  conference.  I  am  in  hearty 
accord  with  all  that  has  been  said  and  done.  I  have  listened  to  the 
singing  of  this  conference  with  rapt  interest.  I  have  been  thrilled. 
Yesterday  a  solo  was  rendered,  entitled,  "How  beautiful  upon  the 
mountains  are  the  feet  of  those  who  bring  glad  tidings  of  great  joy!" 
If  I  might  be  pardoned,  I  would  like  to  paraphrase  this  title  somewhat 
by  saying,  "How  beautiful  upon  the  mountains  are  the  feet  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  the  Mission  Presidents,  and  the  Authorities  and  presiding  officers 
of  104  Stakes  of  Zion,  that  are  represented  in  this  congregation,  who 
bring  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  to  the  people  of  the  Lord!" 

NOTABLE  WOMAN  DEFINES  SUCCESS 

Some  days  ago  I  read  a  brief  article  in  the  public  press  that  has 
caused  some  reflection  on  my  part.  This  article  sets  forth  to  some 
extent  ideas  upon  the  vital  question,  What  is  success  in  life,  and  what 
is  failure?  I  think  you  will  agree  with  me  that  that  is  a  vital  question. 
Very  often  the  division  line  between  success  and  failure  is  very  thin, 
and  at  other  times  the  division  line  is  very  strong. 

If  you  will  bear  with  me  for  a  few  moments  I  shall  be  glad  to  read 
this  brief  article  in  your  hearing.  It  concerns  the  death  and  burial  of  a 
notable  woman  which  occurred  in  New  York  City,  January  23rd,  1933 : 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON  105 

"The  metropolis  prepared  a  notable  funeral  today  for  Miss  Elizabeth  Marbury, 
76  years  old,  who  considered  herself  a  failure. 

"A  renowned  leader  in  theatrical,  literary,  political  and  civil  life,  she  never- 
theless believed  that  any  one  of  millions  of  obscure  housewives  was  more 
successful  than  she. 

"When  asked  for  her  ideas  about  success  for  women,  she  would  say: 

"  'There  is  only  one  real  success  for  women ;  that  is  to  marry  happily  and  have 
children  and  a  home.  In  other  words',  to  bring  forth  life  as  God  intended  a 
woman  should.' 

"  'If  a  woman,'  she  would  say,  'has  not  been  blessed  with  such  a  union  as  I 
have  in  mind,  and  with  motherhood,  then  it  is  better  for  her,  if  she  has  talents 
and  qualifications,  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  find  some  occupation  that  will 
prevent  her  from  becoming  narrow,  introspective  and  unhappy.' 

"Because  Miss  Marbury  had  talents  and  'went  out  into  the  world,'  there  will 
be  a  notable  funeral  tomorrow.  Governor  Herbert  H.  Lehman  is  expected  to 
head  a  huge  gathering  of  distinguished  people  who  will  go  to  St.  Patrick's 
Cathedral  to  pay  tribute  to  the  woman  who  died  yesterday  of  a  heart  attack. 

"Most  people  would  have  said  that  Miss  Marbury's  was  a  full  life.  She 
was  a  member  of  the  Democratic  National  Committee,  agent  for  famous  authors, 
adviser  to  young  talent,  war  worker  and  woman  leader. 

"In  a  book  entitled,  'My  Crystal  Ball,'  she  told  of  her  dealings  with  poets, 
statesmen,  dancers,  generals,  playwrights,  and  politicians.  She  was  play  agent  for 
Victorian  Sardou  and  George  Bernard  Shaw.  Oscar  Wilde  sent  her  'The  Ballad 
of  Reading  Gaol'  from  his  prison  cell  and  she  sold  it  here  for  $250.00.  She 
produced  'Little  Lord  Fauntleroy.'  She  was  a  war  nurse  and  once  she  an;l 
'Big  Bill'  Edwards  sold  $10,000,000  worth  of  Liberty  Bonds  in  ten  minutes  from 
the  steps  of  the  sub-treasury. 

"She  crossed  the  Atlantic  seventy  times,  went  bicycling  with  Nellie  Melba 
in  Brittany.  She  saw  Paris  in  ruins  just  after  the  Prussian  victory  in  1870.  She 
promoted  the  New  York  success  of  Irene  and  Vernon  Castle  and  she  established 
a  highly  moral  dance  hall  on  Broadway.  She  got  decorated  by  several  governments 
and  founded  women's  clubs.     She  fought  for  Al  Smith  and  against  prohibition. 

"But,  as  she  would  say,  'There  is  only  one  real  success  for  women.'  " 

Brethren  and  sisters,  to  my  way  of  thinking,  the  woman  was  just 
about  right  in  the  conclusion  she  reached.  Surely  the  high  dignity 
and  honor  appertaining  to  the  great  blessing  of  becoming  a  mother 
of  men  is  beyond  all  comparison  with  the  many  things  which  this  good 
woman  did. 

THE  FIRST  GREAT  COMMANDMENT 

Is  it  to  be  wondered  at  that  the  Lord  said  in  the  beginning:  "It  is 
not  good  for  man  to  be  alone.  I  will  make  a  helpmeet  for  him."  So  he 
gave  Eve  to  Adam  in  marriage  in  the  garden  of  Eden,  and  it  was  then 
that  the  great  first  commandment  was  given  which  has  come  thundering 
down  through  the  ages — and  is  equally  binding  upon  all  who  live  under 
the  marriage  covenant — namely,  "Be  fruitful,  and  multiply  and  replenish 
the  earth,  and  subdue  it,  and  have  dominion  over  the  fish  of  the  sea  and 
the  fowl  of  the  air,  and  over  everything  that  moveth  upon  the  earth." 

I  am  quite  sure  that  the  phrase,  "Be  fruitful,"  did  not  then  mean, 
and  does  not  mean  now  that  the  family  should  be  limited  in  number  to 
the  husband  and  the  wife  and  one  or  two  children.  No  provision  was 
made  in  the  first  marriage  for  divorce.  It  seemed  not  to  have  been 
under  contemplation,  for  you  will  remember  that  Adam  said,  having 


106  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

the  woman  in  mind  :  "She  is  bone  of  my  bones,  and  flesh  of  my  flesh,  and 
she  shall  be  called  woman  because  she  was  taken  out  of  man." 

MARRIAGE   A    CO-PARTNERSHIP 

Now,  in  a  very  real  sense,  in  marriage  woman  becomes  a  part  of 
man,  and  it  was  this  thought  in  mind  doubtless  that  led  the  Lord  to  say : 
"What  God  hath  joined  together  let  no  man  put  asunder."  The  ease 
with  which  in  many  instances  the  marriage  tie  is  sundered  is  certainly 
very  deplorable.  Marriage  in  most  countries  is  solemnized  in  some 
form ;  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  it  is  regarded  as  a  solemn  sacrament 
of  very  great  importance.  It  is  learned,  by  a  careful  study  of  the  scrip- 
tures and  the  revelations  of  God,  that  the  husband  and  the  wife,  in 
bringing  forth  children,  actually  enter  into  a  co-partnership  with  God 
in  heaven,  for  the  reason  that  God  in  heaven  supplies  the  spirit  of  the 
child  and  the  parents  upon  the  earth  furnish  the  body,  and  the  spirit  and 
the  body  of  the  child  in  birth  joined  together  form  this  great  and  im- 
portant co-partnership  with  God.  Is  it  not  wonderful,  is  it  not  mar- 
velous, is  it  not  an  honor  of  the  very  highest  dignity,  that  people  upon 
the  earth  have  the  opportunity  of  entering  into  this  co-partnership? 
Marriage  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  means  very  much  more  than  it  does 
to  our  friends  of  the  other  Christian  denominations.  They  marry  for 
this  world  only,  but  the  Latter-day  Saints  marry  for  this  world  and 
the  world  to  come. 

Now,  it  may  be  said  that  there  are  some  Latter-day  Saints  who 
marry  for  this  world  only.  What  is  the  answer?  It  is  because  of  a 
lack  of  understanding.  They  little  comprehend  the  nature  and  far- 
reaching  influence  of  marriage  for  eternity. 

LATTER-DAY    SAINT    MARRIAGES 

How  lovely  it  is  to  contemplate  the  destiny  of  a  young  couple  who 
have  contracted  a  Temple  marriage;  joined  hand-in-hand  they  face 
the  battle  of  life  fearlessly,  courageously.  Still  hand-in-hand  they  pass 
along  through  the  years  celebrating  at  various  intervals  some  very 
important  wedding  days — there  is,  for  instance,  the  wooden  wedding, 
the  pottery  wedding,  the  silver  wedding,  the  golden  wedding,  and  the 
diamond  wedding  day.  Crowned  with  seventy-five  years  of  happiness 
mingled  with  trials  that  were  hard  to  bear  this  couple  descends  into  the 
grave  only  to  rise  again  on  the  morning  of  the  resurrection  when  they 
will  be  reunited  in  the  family  relationship  and  will  enter  into  exaltation 
and  glory  and  go  hand  in  hand  throughout  eternity. 

The  nature  of  the  marriage  covenant,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  beau- 
tifully and  concisely  set  forth  in  one  paragraph  of  Section  132  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  will  read  that  paragraph  to  you.  It  is 
the  18th  paragraph  in  that  wonderful  and  marvelous  revelation  given 
to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet : 

"And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you," — s'aid  the  Lord — "if  a  man  marry  a  wife, 
and  make  a  covenant  with  her  for  time  and  for  all  eternity,  if  that  covenant  is 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON  107 

not  by  me  or  by  my  word,  which  is  my  law,  and  is  not  sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit 
of  promise,  through  him  whom  I  have  anointed  and  appointed  unto  this  power, 
then  it  is  not  valid  neither  of  force  when  they  are  out  of  the  world,  becaus'e  they 
are  not  joined  by  me,  saith  the  Lord,  neither  by  my  word;  when  they  are  out  of 
the  world  it  cannot  be  received  there,  because  the  angels  and  the  gods  are 
appointed  there,  by  whom  they  cannot  pass ;  they  cannot,  therefore,  inherit  my 
glory ;  for  my  house  is  a  house  of  order,  saith  the  Lord  God. 

I  say  unto  you  Latter-day  Saints  in  boldness  and  without  fear  of 
successful  contradiction  that  any  man  or  woman  who  contracts  a  Temple 
marriage  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  abides 
by  the  conditions  and  restrictions  of  this  great  law  will  have  lived  a 
successful  life.    That  is  my  testimony. 

A  TESTIMONY 

I  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God.  I  testify  that  Jesus  was 
the  Christ  who  was  crucified  upon  Mount  Calvary  for  the  sins  of  the 
world,  and  that  we  today  and  all  future  generations  and  all  past  genera- 
tions will  be  benefited  by  the  mighty  sacrifice  that  he  made,  and  what 
might  to  some  have  seemed  to  be  a  failure,  yet  the  crucifixion  of  the 
Savior  was  the  stepping-stone  to  his  everlasting  success  in  the  kingdom 
of  his  Father  and  our  Father. 

I  testify  most  solemnly  and  earnestly  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true 
prophet  of  God,  and  one  of  the  mightiest  of  the  latter-day  prophets. 

May  God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  bless  this  great  people, 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Now  let 
us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salvation." 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles     - 

I  feel  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege  of  attending 
this  remarkable  conference.  Never  in  the  history  of  the  world  was  the 
plan  of  God  so  necessary  as  it  is  today  to  solve  the  horrible  conditions 
the  world  finds  itself  in.  What  the  world  needs  today  is  more  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  living  God. 

"I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ;  for  it  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation." 

THE    LOFTIEST   AMBITION 

The  loftiest  ambition  of  any  person  is  not  to  receive  the  plaudits 
of  the  world  but  to  be  honest,  honorable  and  patriotic  in  every  act  of 
life.  A  truly  religious  man  cannot  help  but  become  a  better  citizen, 
no  matter  in  what  country  he  may  reside.  "In  faith,  nothing  wavering," 
is  and  has  been  a  fundamental  principle  of  our  Heavenly  Father's 
Church  in  every  dispensation  of  the  world's  history. 


108  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

THE   PROPHET'S   EDUCATIONAL    IDEALS 

Joseph  Smith  was  the  author  of  such  sayings  as  these : 

"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence." 

"It  is  impossible  to  be  saved  in  ignorance." 

"Seek  learning  even  by  study  and  also  by  faith." 

"Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise 
with  us  in  the  res'urrection. 

"And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life  through 
his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage 
in  the  world  to  come." 

The  Prophet  was  true  to  his  principles.  He  established  schools  and 
championed  the  cause  of  education.  A  "Mormon"  writer  has  said: 
"His  educational  ideals  passed  over  the  threshold  of  time  and  strode 
down  the  halls  of  eternity.  With  a  full  appreciation  of  the  knowledge 
that  makes  men  and  women  capable  and  skilful  in  this  life,  he  prized 
and  taught  others  to  prize,  above  all,  the  knowledge  that  maketh  wise 
unto  salvation.  How  to  make  a  living  here — how  to  solve  life's  everyday 
problems,  was  of  course  important;  but  how  to  grapple  successfully 
with  the  mightier  problems  of  the  great  hereafter,  how  to  store  up 
treasures  in  heaven  and  lay  hold  upon  eternal  life,  was  far  more  conse- 
quential. Education  meant  to  him  the  leading  out  of  all  the  latent 
potential  powers  of  the  individual,  the  training  to  perfection  of  every 
divine  attribute  in  man,  as  the  child  of  God  and  as  a  god  himself,  in 
embryo.  He  stood  for  the  full  and  complete  development  of  the  soul, 
body  and  spirit  combined — mental,  physical,  moral,  and  spiritual  edu- 
cation— the  education  contemplated  and  inculcated  by  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ." 

REASONABLE  AND  SOUL-SATISFYING 

In  my  intercourse  with  the  world  I  have  had  ample  opportunity  to 
come  in  contact  with  other  religious  systems  and  to  compare  them  with 
my  own.  If  "Mormonism"  is  my  preference  over  all,  it  is  because  it 
appeals  to  me  as  the  most  reasonable  of  all,  the  most  soul-satisfying 
religion  that  I  have  encountered  anywhere. 

MAN   LITERALLY  A  CHILD  OF   GOD 

It  teaches  that  man  is  literally  the  child  of  God,  fashioned  in  His 
image,  endowed  with  divine  attributes,  and  capable,  by  education  and 
development,  of  becoming  like  unto  that  glorious  Being,  in  whose  image 
or  likeness  all  men  are  created. 

EARTH  TO  BE  CELESTIALIZED 

It  teaches  that  this  earth,  which  is  but  one  of  millions  like  it  formed 
for  similar  purposes,  was  made  not  out  of  nothing,  as  some  theologians 
assert,  but  out  of  the  eternal  elements,  spirit  and  matter,  and  that  after 
it  has  filled  the  measure  of  its  creation  as  a  temporary  abode,  a  place  of 
probation  for  man,  it  will  be  converted  into  a  celestial  sphere,  that  the 


ELDER  REED  S MOOT  109 

righteous  may  inherit  it  forever.    Christ's  millennial  reign  is  to  sanctify 
the  earth  and  prepare  it  for  celestial  glory. 

god's  kingdom 

"Mormonism"  teaches  that  the  glorified  planets  are  God's  kingdoms, 
and  that  to  each  kingdom  a  law  is  given.  Whosoever  inherits  any  one 
of  these  kingdoms — celestial,  terrestrial  or  telestial — must  abide  the  law 
pertaining  to  that  kingdom ;  all  heavenly  gifts,  whether  spiritual  or 
temporal,  being  predicated  upon  the  principle  of  obedience. 

REWARDED  ACCORDING  TO  THEIR  WORKS 

All  men  are  to  be  rewarded  according  to  their  works,  as  shown 
to  John  the  Revelator  in  his  great  vision  on  Patmos.  They  who  inherit 
celestial  glory,  the  highest  heavenly  condition,  which  is  comparable  to 
the  light  of  the  sun,  are  they  who  receive  the  Gospel  in  this  life;  also 
those  who  would  receive  it  if  the  opportunity  were  offered.  They  can 
believe  and  repent  in  the  spirit  world  and  receive  baptism  by  proxy  in 
temples  erected  on  earth  for  that  purpose.  These  are  the  valiant  who 
obey  Christ  in  all  things. 

The  inheritors  of  terrestrial  glory  are  they  who  yield  a  partial,  but 
not  a  full  obedience  to  the  divine  commands.  They  receive  not  the 
Gospel  here  but  afterwards  receive  it,  and  their  glory  is  likened  unto 
that  of  the  moon.  Telestial  glory  is  for  those  who  are  cast  down  to 
hell,  are  there  purged  of  their  sins,  and  after  paying  their  debt  to 
Eternal  Justice,  are  released  from  prison  to  receive  that  for  which  they 
are  fitted  and  prepared.  They  are  as  the  twinkling  stars,  and  are  ser- 
vants of.  the  Most  High,  "but  where  God  and  Christ  dwell  they  cannot 
come,  worlds  without  end." 

All  men  will  be  saved  except  the  sons  of  perdition,  who  have  had 
every  opportunity  not  only  for  salvation  but  for  exaltation  to  the  highest 
glory;  and  then  have  denied,  trampled  upon  and  thrown  it  all  away. 
These  are  the  only  ones  who  cannot  be  saved  in  some  degree  of  glory ; 
and  the  reason  why  they  are  lost  is  because  they  have  sinned  away  the 
power  of  repentance,  upon  which  all  salvation  is  predicated. 

LOYALTY  TO   COUNTRY 

"Mormonism"  'was  made  possible,  humanly  speaking,  by  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  government  of  the  United  States,  whose  constitutional 
guarantee  of  religious  liberty  paved  the  way  for  the  coming  forth  of 
this  "marvelous  work  and  wonder." 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  that  they  must  be  loyal  to  their  coun- 
try, honoring  its  laws,  upholding  its  institutions,  its  constituted  authori- 
ties, and  doing  all  things  that  American  citizens  ought  to  do.  They  are 
taught  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  inspired  of  God 
and  framed  by  wise  men  whom  the  Almighty  raised  up  for  this  very 
purpose,  and  that  it  "should  be  maintained  for  the  rights  and  protection 
of  all  flesh,"  so  that  every  man  may  act  according  to  the  moral  agency 


110  GENERAL    CONFERENCE 

which  God  has  given  him,  that  he  "may  be  accountable  for  his  own 
sins  in  the  day  of  judgment." 

Believing  this,  they  cannot  be  otherwise  than  loyal.  They  do  not 
blame  the  government  of  the  United  States  for  their  past  persecutions 
at  the  hands  of  lawless  mobs.  They  realize  that  such  things  were  not 
because  of  the  Constitution  and  the  Government,  but  in  spite  of  them; 
and  they  stand  ready  at  all  times  to  honor  the  laws  of  this  nation  and  to 
defend  it  against  foes  without  or  within. 

"In  faith,  nothing  wavering,"  has  been  a  fundamental  principle  of 
all  God's  servants  from  the  beginning  of  time. 

A  TEST  OF   FAITH 

An  opening  incident  in  the  lesson  of  faith  to  which  I  wish  to  call 
your  attention  today  is  an  occurrence  of  a  long  time  ago,  as  human 
history  runs.  But  its  lesson  comes  to  this  very  hour  in  the  crisis  we  now 
are  facing.  The  hosts  of  Israel  who  had  been  held  in  Egyptian  bondage 
had  been  led  from  the  land  of  their  detention.  On  their  way  to  the  new 
land  they  had  met  discouragements,  defeats  and  victories.  In  it  all,  their 
great  leader  had  pressed  them  forward  to  learn,  through  many  miracu- 
lous displays  of  divine  power  which  came  to  them  in  the  vicissitudes 
of  their  journeying  in  the  Arabian  deserts,  that  God  lived — the  God  of 
their  fathers,  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  They  were  learning,  too, 
that  as  descendants  of  those  great  patriarchs  theirs  was  a  chosen  race 
for  a  great  destiny.  Among  other  things,  they  were  to  be  a  blessing 
to  all  the  families  of  the  earth. 

As  a  starting  point  in  their  destiny  from  this  time,  they  were  to 
begin  a  national  existence  in  "the  promised  land" — the  land  which  the 
"Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee."  Of  those  who  had  been  led  out  of  Egypt 
forty  years  earlier,  only  two  remained  alive,  Joshua  and  Caleb.  All 
the  others  had  found  graves  in  the  desert.  Yet  Israel  had  become  a 
"great  and  a  mighty  people."  The  children  who  had  been  born  in  the 
wilderness  were  reared  in  their  varying  ages  under  the  leadership  of 
the  mighty  Prophet  Moses.  The  adult  body  of  those  children  included 
a  considerable  force  of  able-bodied  fighting  men.  But  now  their  great 
leader,  who  had  brought  them  to  the  crisis  of  actual  entrance  upon  the 
promised  land,  had  passed  from  their  midst.  It  was  a  test  of  their  faith 
in  God,  individually  as  well  as  collectively.  The  leadership  had  been  taken 
over  by  Joshua,  whose  confidence  in  the  mission  of  their  departed  prophet 
was  unshaken.  Testing  them  in  their  faith,  as  a  body  and  as  individual 
members  thereof,  came  the  incident  to  which  I  have  made  reference. 

A  VITAL  AND  FUNDAMENTAL  COMMAND 

It  was  then  and  there  that  the  Lord  gave  to  Joshua  this  vital  and 
fundamental  command,  as  vital  and  fundamental  to  those  in  Israel  today 
who  hold  the  Priesthood  as  it  was  to  the  leader  Joshua  on  the  borders 
of  the  promised  land  nearly  thirty-four  centuries  ago: 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT  111 

"Only  be  thou  strong,  and  very  courageous;  *  *  *  for  then  thou  shalt  make 
thy  way  prosperous,  and  then  thou  shalt  have  good  success."  (Joshua  1 :7,  8) 

Israel  moved  forward  to  success.  The  basic  foundation  of  accept- 
ance and  of  conformity  with  the  admonition  thus  given  was  faith  in 
God. 

A  REDEEMER  PROMISED 

Only  a  few  years  earlier  it  had  been  declared  (Numbers  24:17)  : 
"There  shall  come  a  Star  out  of  Jacob,  and  a  Sceptre  shall  rise  out  of 
Israel." 

The  great  Prophet  Isaiah  later  explained  (Isaiah  59:20):  "The 
Redeemer  shall  come  to  Zion,  and  unto  them  that  turn  from  transgression 
in  Jacob,  saith  the  Lord." 

This  was  to  Israel  the  promised  and  hoped  for  Christ,  who  so  firmly 
declared  this  basic  principle  of  faith  in  the  living  God  (John  14:1)  : 
"Let  not  your  heart  be  troubled ;  ye  believe  in  God,  believe  also  in  me." 

PRINCIPLE  OF  FAITH  STRESSED  BY  CHRIST 

Through  all  his  ministry,  Jesus  stressed  this  principle  of  faith. 
When  the  afflicted  woman  had  but  "touched  the  hem  of  his  garment"  in 
her  desire  to  be  healed,  he  said  (Matt.  9:22)  :  "Daughter,  be  of  good 
comfort ;  thy  faith  hath  made  thee  whole."  And  to  his  disciples  he  said 
for  occasions  when  they  came  to  the  necessity  of  performing  some  im- 
portant work  (Matt.  17  :20)  :  "Verily  I  say  unto  you,  If  ye  have  faith  as 
a  grain  of  mustard  seed,  ye  shall  say  unto  this  mountain,  Remove  hence 
to  yonder  place,  and  it  shall  remove." 

In  the  observance  and  exercise  of  the  principle  of  faith,  nothing 
that  was  proper  to  be  accomplished  would  be  impossible  to  them.  This 
same  teaching  of  the  great  importance  of  faith  goes  all  through  the 
record  in  the  New  Testament. 

ON  THE  WESTERN  CONTINENT 

Not  only  in  the  Old  World  was  the  active  exercise  of  faith  in  God 
impressed  upon  the  people.  Here  on  the  western  continent,  among 
dwellers  on  this  land  before  the  opening  of  the  Christian  era,  there  comes 
in  the  sacred  record  these  words  of  impressive  testimony  (2  Nephi 
25 :26-29)  : 

"We  talk  of  Christ,  we  rejoice  in  Christ,  we  preach  of  Christ,  we  prophesy 
of  Christ  and  we  write  according  to  our  prophecies,  that  our  children  may  know 
to  what  source  they  may  look  for  a  remission  of  their  sins.  *  *  * 

"And  now  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that  the  right  way  is  to  believe  in  Christ 
and  deny  him  not;  and  Christ  is  the  Holy  One  of  Israel;  wherefore  ye  must  bow 
down  before  him,  and  worship  him,  with  all  your  might,  mind  and  strength,  and 
your  whole  soul ;  and  if  ye  do  this  ye  shall  in  no  wise  be  cast  out." 

In  the  further  record  of  Christ's  visit  to  people  on  this  continent 
after  his  resurrection,  there  is  abundant  illustration  of  the  surpassing 
power  of  faith  in  God,  as  this  was  exercised  in  accord  with  the  Gospel 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  a  faith  shown  by  our  works  that  are  in  harmony 
with  the  laws  of  God  as  these  are  set  forth  in  his  revealed  word.  It 
is  a  living,  effective,  courageous  faith.  It  is  a  whole-hearted  recognition 
of  the  great  truth  declared  by  the  Apostle  John  in  his  gospel  as  recorded 
in  the  New  Testament  (John  3  :16,  17) : 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his1  only  begotten  Son,  that  who- 
soever believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 

"For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world  to  condemn  the  world ;  but  that 
the  world  through  him  might  be  saved." 

IN  THIS  DISPENSATION 

In  this  later  age,  when  the  "falling  away"  of  the  early  Christian 
Church  foretold  by  the  Apostle  Paul  (2  Thessalonians  2:3)  had  reached 
a  culmination  to  the  approaching  "hour  of  God's  judgment"  (Rev. 
14:7),  the  young  man  Joseph  Smith,  then  under  fifteen  years  of  age, 
was  impressed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  call  upon  God  for  guidance 
under  the  disturbing  circumstances  of  his  day.  His  reading  of  the  Bible 
included  the  general  epistle  of  the  Apostle  James.  It  advised  him  to 
"ask  of  God"  (James  1:5).  He  considered  carefully  the  admonition 
in  the  sixth  verse  of  the  first  chapter,  "Let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing 
wavering;"  and  in  the  seventh  verse  that  the  man  who  wavered  in  his 
faith  would  not  receive  the  desired  blessing.  Joseph  asked  in  unwavering 
faith  and  received  the  great  revelation  from  God  so  necessary  for  this 
dispensation.  Divine  authority  was  restored  to  earth,  and  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  again  came  into  existence,  with  all  its  gifts  and  powers. 
That  organization  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
in  which  we  claim  membership. 

"in  faith,  nothing  wavering" 

Now,  I  ask  for  myself,  as  I  ask  for  the  Saints,  are  we  ready  to  seek 
the  Lord,  each  and  every  one  of  us,  "in  faith,  nothing  wavering?"  Our 
faith,  to  be  unwavering,  also  must  be  shown  by  our  actions  as  well  as  by 
our  words.  Our  human  opinions  and  ambitions  must  not  be  our  chief 
desire.  We  need  to  be  wholly  willing,  when  we  ask  the  Lord  in  faith 
for  wisdom,  to  receive  direct  that  which  the  Lord  is  willing  to  give. 
This  may  be  a  difficult  thing  to  do ;  but  doing  it  is  the  living,  unwavering 
faith  recognized  in  the  Gospel  of  Christ  as  bringing  results.  Then, 
when  we  do  that,  we  are  in  a  frame  of  mind  to  profit  by  the  instruction 
and  promise  which  I  have  quoted : 

"Only  be  thou  strong,  and  very  courageous ;  *  *  *  for  then  thou  shalt  make  thy 
way  prosperous,  and  then  thou  shalt  have  good  success." 

May  we  all,  by  our  unwavering  faith  in  the  present  purposes  of 
God,  be  strong  and  very  courageous  in  meeting  the  present  crisis,  that 
we  may  have  good  success  in  being  in  strict  accord  with  God's  great 
purposes  for  us,  individually  as  well  as  collectively,  is  my  prayer,  in 
Jesus'  name. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT  113 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

"Great  and  marvelous  are  thy  ways  and  thy  works,  O  Lord,  our  God !" 

This  expresses  my  feelings  as  I  have  sat  through  the  various  sessions 
of  this  conference,  and  listened  to  the  words  of  the  various  speakers, 
and  felt  the  impress  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  which  has  been  with  us ; 
and  as  I  sat  with  you  this  morning  and  listened  to  the  beautiful  musical 
rendition  by  the  tabernacle  choir,  with  the  accompanying  music,  which 
was  broadcast  throughout  these  United  States  and  possibly  beyond  its 
borders  into  other  nations  of  the  earth,  and  the  islands  of  the  sea,  which 
is  quite  possible  by  the  means  which  have  been  employed  by  men  in 
this  day  and  time. 

FOR  THE  ACCOMPLISHMENT  OF  GOD's  WORK 

One  may  say :  Why,  these  are  but  the  inventions  of  man.  Yes,  they 
are  the  inventions  of  man,  inspired  of  God  for  his  honor  and  glory  and 
the  accomplishment  of  his  work  in  the  earth.  The  Savior,  as  recorded 
in  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  Matthew,  spoke  of  the  time  of  his 
second  coming,  and  said  her: 

"This  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
unto  all  nations ;  and  then  shall  the  end  come." 

That  was  to  immediately  precede  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of 
the  Lord,  the  ushering  in  of  a  millennial  reign  of  peace. 

For  more  than  a  hundred  years  the  Latter-day  Saints,  on  whom 
rests  this  responsibility,  have  been  engaged  in  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  with  more  or  less  of  success.  We  are  here,  as  a  congregation 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  the  result  of  the  preaching  of  this  Gospel  in 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  We  are  here  located  in  the  valleys  of  the 
mountains,  having  gathered  from  the  nations  of  the  earth  through  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel. 

The  Lord  without  a  doubt  has  inspired  those  men  of  inventive 
genius,  who  have  brought  forth  the  radio  and  this  broadcasting,  for  his 
own  purpose,  and  I  think  I  can  see  how  that  in  a  very  short  time  this 
Gospel  of  the  kingdom  may  reach  into  every  nation,  to  every  kindred, 
tongue  and  people,  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  We  are  already  using 
this  system  of  preaching  the  Gospel  in  a  number  of  the  mission  fields, 
and  from  Salt  Lake  City.  Marvelous  indeed  are  the  works  of  God.  No 
man  can  fully  comprehend  them. 

WORK  NOT  RETARDED 

As  remarks  were  made  with  reference  to  our  brethren  of  the 
General  Authorities  who  have  recently  departed  this  life,  my  mind  has 
run  back  over  the  history  of  the  Church  since  the  days  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  and  the  Patriarch  Hyrum,  who  gave  their  lives  for  the  Gospel's 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

sake.  When  the  Prophet  and  the  Patriarch  were  martyred  there  was  a 
feeling  among  a  great  many  people  that  their  death  would  end  this  work, 
commonly  known  as  Mormonism.  But  the  blood  of  the  prophets  has 
proven  to  be  the  seed  of  the  Church,  and  there  was  no  retarding  of 
the  work,  but  it  broadened  out  and  extended,  under  the  leadership  of 
President  Brigham  Young,  the  legal  successor  to  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
and  those  associated  with  him,  and  they  passed  on.  And  still  the  work 
persisted,  with  no  evidence  of  its  being  retarded  in  the  least.  And  so 
from  one  presidency  to  another,  six  of  them  having  passed  away,  and 
the  work  goes  on  and  gets  stronger  and  stronger,  greater  in  numbers, 
better  and  more  thoroughly  organized,  and  with  greater  accomplish- 
ments. 

Now,  these  good  brethren  of  ours  whom  we  have  dearly  loved,  with 
whom  we  have  associated  so  closely  and  have  known  so  well  for  their 
virtues  and  their  worth,  have  passed  on.  They  belong  to  another  world 
and  have  another  life  of  activity  to  live.  While  they  lived  here  such  a 
thing  as  rest  and  recreation  were  scarcely  known  to  these  two  men, 
indefatigable  laborers  for  the  cause  of  truth,  for  the  cause  of  the  Master, 
in  studying,  in  preaching  the  Gospel,  and  in  writing  books,  they  scarce- 
ly had  any  peers  in  this  Church.  We  will  miss  them  of  course,  but  will 
the  work  be  retarded  ?    Not  at  all. 

THE  WORK  OF  GOD 

And  why  this  condition  of  stability  and  uninterrupted  progress  from 
the  inception  of  the  work  down  to  the  present  time?  Because  of  the 
greatness,  the  bigness  and  the  magnitude  of  this  work,  being  God's 
work,  and  his  arm  and  hand  are  over  it.  He  is  at  the  helm  and  giving 
direction.  Men  haven't  made  this  great  work  that  we  are  engaged  in, 
"Mormonism,"  so-called.  But  this  work  has  made  men  of  renown, 
noblemen  such  as  these  our  brethren  who  have  recently  passed  beyond. 
That  is  the  glory  of  this  work,  the  greatness  of  it,  the  bigness  of  it. 
Nothing  like  it  in  all  the  world !    It  is  the  biggest  thing  known  to  man. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  no  serious  objection  to  the  use  of  the 
word  "Mormonism,"  notwithstanding  the  name  was  given  to  us  by 
those  who  are  not  of  us,  who  never  intended  it  for  a  compliment.  We 
understand  that  the  word  "Mormon"  in  itself  means  "more  good,"  and 
the  word  "Mormonism"  is  comprehensive,  in  that  it  stands  for  the 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God  upon  the  earth,  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  which  in  very  deed  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

More  minutely  described  we  might  say  it  is  the  plan  of  the  Gods 
for  the  existence  of  this  world,  this  earth  on  which  we  live ;  and  for 
man's  existence  upon  the  earth ;  for  man's  fall,  for  that  was  considered 
in  the  plan  in  the  beginning,  and  for  the  fall  of  the  earth ;  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  man  and  the  redemption  of  the  earth ;  for  the  glorifying  of  the 
earth,  for  it  is  to  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisical  glory ;  and  for 
the  eternal  life  and  exaltation  of  man. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  115 

FOR  THE  SALVATION  OF   MAN 

As  the  Lord  talked  to  his  servant  Moses  he  made  plain  to  him  his 
plans  and  purposes  concerning  his  creations,  and  told  him  that  they 
were  for  the  accomplishment  of  man's  salvation. 

"Behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man." 

The  Gospel  was  instituted  for  this  purpose.  The  Prophet  Joseph 
tells  us  that  we  were  all  present  in  the  council  of  heaven ;  that  we  sat 
in  council  with  the  Gods ;  that  we  saw  the  plan  of  salvation  made,  and 
the  Savior  chosen  and  appointed,  and  we  sanctioned  it.  We  must  have 
had  a  long  period  of  life  and  experience  in  the  spirit  world  to  have  been 
able  to  sit  in  council  with  the  Gods  upon  such  momentous  questions.  We 
must  have  understood  the  plans  and  purposes  of  the  Lord,  and  we  must 
have  subscribed  to  them.  Every  man  that  has  been  born  in  the  flesh 
came  with  a  definite  understanding  that  he  was  to  work  out  his  salva- 
tion according  to  the  plan  of  the  Gospel,  that  he  might  attain  the  blessings 
of  eternal  life  and  exaltation.  It  involves  the  acceptance  of  certain 
principles,  the  receiving  of  certain  ordinances,  the  obeying  of  the  laws  of 
God,  the  keeping  of  his  commandments,  the  making  of  sacrifice,  the 
rendering  of  service,  the  denying  ourselves  of  that  which  is  evil,  the  ac- 
ceptance of  that  which  is  good. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY 

Our  remembrance  of  the  past  was  taken  away,  and  in  the  language 
of  the  scripture,  we  must  live  while  here  in  the  flesh  by  faith  and  not  by 
sight.  But  we  have  had  the  word  and  will  of  God  revealed  to  us,  through 
his  prophets  whom  he  has  raised  up,  so  that  we  are  not  in  the  dark.  As 
we  have  investigated  and  have  received  the  Gospel,  we  have  received 
a  testimony  of  its  truth,  and  with  it  a  responsibility  for  the  carrying  on 
of  this  work  looking  to  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  men.  It  involves 
the  preaching  of  this  Gospel  in  all  the  world.  It  involves  the  building 
of  temples  and  the  redeeming  of  the  dead.  It  involves  the  organizing,  as 
we  are  organized,  as  a  great  Church,  for  the  proper  teaching  and  training 
of  our  children,  for  the  finishing,  we  might  say,  of  the  conversion  of 
those  who  have  been  gathered  in  from  the  world. 

Even  in  the  world  where  we  have  these  organizations  they  are  to 
prepare  men  and  women  in  the  faith  and  integrity  and  ability  to  engage 
in  this  work.  Every  man  and  every  woman  that  comes  into  the 
Church,  every  convert,  is  expected  of  the. Lord  to  be  a  missionary  for 
him,  whether  he  be  called  to  labor  at  home  or  abroad,  or  having  no 
calling  whatever  specially  given  unto  him. 

The  word  of  the  Lord  is  to  the  effect  that  he  that  is  warned  is 
to  warn  his  neighbor.  Every  young  man  in  this  Church  ought  to  have  an 
ambition  to  go -upon  a  mission,  realizing  that  all  that  he  has  and  enjoys 
of  the  Gospel  and  hope  of  eternal  life  is  the  result  of  the  preaching  of 
this  Gospel ;  that  if  we  have  not  ourselves  heard  it  in  the  world  for  the 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

first  time,  and  been  converted,  our  parents  or  our  grandparents  or  our 
great-grandparents  have,  and  we  are  partaking  of  the  fruits  of  their 
sacrifices  and  their  labors.  We  should  have  a  desire  to  pay  the  debt  of 
gratitude  we  feel  for  the  Gospel,  by  imparting  the  knowledge  we  have 
of  it  to  those  who  are  in  spiritual  darkness. 

A  SECOND  OBLIGATION 

One  important  obligation  resting  upon  us  as  a  Church  is  to  get 
missionaries,  and  another  important  obligation  is  that  of  looking  after 
them  when  they  return.  There  are  men  who  have  left  remunerative 
positions  of  labor  to  go  upon  missions,  and  when  they  have  returned  they 
have  walked  the  streets  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  have  gone  from  city  to 
city  seeking  in  vain  for  employment,  and  some  of  them  having  families 
to  maintain.  That  is  a  very  regrettable  condition  and  discouraging  to 
others  who  contemplate  going  upon  missions. 

I  think  it  is  serious  when  a  High  Priests'  quorum  can  not  help  a 
returning  High  Priest,  or  a  quorum  of  Seventies  will  allow  one  of  their 
members  returning  from  a  mission  to  go  months  and  years  without 
desired  and  deserved  employment.  They  ought  to  have  that  spirit  of 
brotherhood  and  helpfulness  that  they  would  either  furnish  employment 
for  him  or  help  him  to  find  employment. 

MEETING  THE  EMERGENCY 

The  shortage  of  missionaries  creates  an  emergency  in  the  mission 
field  today.  One  way  of  meeting  this  emergency  is  that  of  utilizing 
more  fully  the  labors  of  the  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  residents  in  the 
missions,  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel.  A  local  man  may  accompany 
an  elder  from  Zion,  and  make  a  full  team  of  two  in  tracting  or  doing 
any  other  kind  of  missionary  work.  If  that  were  carried  out  as  it 
might  be,  it  would  double  our  corps  of  missionaries,  and  it  would  build 
up  the  Saints  who  might  be  thus  engaged. 

Another  thing :  Many  of  our  missionaries  in  the  field  spend  too 
much  of  their  time  in  visiting  the  Saints,  in  settling  difficulties  among 
them,  and  encouraging  those  who  are  indifferent  in  the  faith,  all  of 
which  is  necessary,  but  it  should  be  done  as  far  as  possible  by  local 
men  and  women,  that  the  regular  missionaries  may  be  at  liberty  to 
find  new  friends  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  them. 

Branches  should  be  organized  with  teachers  as  they  are  in  the 
wards  and  branches  in  Zion,  with  local  men  and  women  who  go  into  the 
homes  of  the  Saints  regularly  and  make  an  effort  at  keeping  peace, 
settling  difficulties,  answering  troublesome  questions,  etc. 

There  is  some  opportunity  for  improvement,  and  I  think  the  exigen- 
cies of  the  case  demand  an  extra  effort  along  these  lines  by  those  who 
have  the  work  in  charge. 

WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD 

Then  there  is  the  work  for  the  dead.  That  is  one  of  the  things 
that  is  required  of  us — service  for  God  and  our  fellow-men.     There  is 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  11? 

no  better  way  of  serving  God  and  our  fellow  men  than  that  of  working 
for  the  redemption  of  our  dead  in  genealogical  research  and  in  temple 
work.  They  go  hand  in  hand.  The  temple  work  for  the  dead  can  not 
be  accomplished  without  first  obtaining  the  information  such  as  is  neces- 
sary to  identify  them  upon  the  records  of  the  Church  and  in  the  temples. 
This  work  is  growing  and  increasing,  which  is  very  gratifying. 

There  are  a  great  many  people  who  are  out  of  work  and  who  are 
wasting  their  time,  who  could  go  to  the  temple  and  be  laying  up  for 
themselves  treasures  in  heaven,  treasures  that  would  not, slip  away  from 
them,  and  at  the  same  time  be  saving  the  souls  of  men  and  women. 

There  are  people  who  are  living  far  distant  from  the  temples  and 
can  not  very  well  get  to  the  temples.  You  would  do  well  to  spend  a 
little  of  your  money  in  genealogical  research  from  a  distance,  by  writing 
the  Genealogical  Society  of  Utah,  giving  them  a  few  items  of  information 
pertaining  to  your  ancestors,  and  see  what  they  can  do  for  you  in  the 
way  of  genealogical  research.  Then,  if  you  can  not  go  to  the  temple, 
perhaps  there  are  some  in  the  community  in  which  you  live  who  are  in 
need  of  employment,  who  could  go  to  the  temple.  Give  them  some 
relief  by  employing  them  to  represent  you  and  at  the  same  time  you 
will  be  spending  your  money  in  the  redemption  of  the  dead. 

A  GOSPEL  OF  SERVICE 

This  Gospel  is  a  Gospel  of  work,  of  service  to  God  and  our 
fellowmen,  from  beginning  to  end.  It  is  not  sufficient  that  we  be  simply 
good,  or  that  we  ourselves  embrace  the  principles  and  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel,  but  we  are  to  teach  them  to  others  and  administer  the  ordinances 
thereof  to  those  who  are  prepared  to  receive  them,  all  things  being  done 
in  proper  order. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  we  may  be  able  to 
understand  our  responsibilities,  and  be  able  to  discharge  them  in  a  way 
that  will  be  satisfactory  to  the  Lord,  who  knows  what  we  are  doing  and 
what  we  are  not  doing,  and  in  a  way  that  when  we  have  finished  this 
life  we  will  not  meet  with  disappointment;  that  when  we  go  on  the 
other  side  and  meet  our  dead  we  will  not  be  reproached  for  having 
neglected  them.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  this  end,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Castle  H.  Murphy  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission  has  been  in 
the  hospital  for  a  week  and  has  been  confined  to  his  home  another  week. 
He  has  cabled  us  that  he  is  now  able  to  continue  with  his  work  and 
sends  greetings  and  aloha  to  the  Authorities  and  the  Saints. 

I  am  sorry  that  the  good  people  who  are  listening  to  these  services 
over  the  radio  will  be  deprived  of  the  privilege  of  hearing  the  last  song 
by  the  choir,  as  I  understand  that  the  radio  broadcasting  company  will 
shut  us  off  the  air  promptly  at  four  o'clock.    I  am  going  to  rob  the  choir 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

of  the  privilege  of  being  heard  over  the  radio  when  they  sing  the  closing 
number.  They  had  an  hour  this  morning  and  were  heard  all  over  the 
United  States,  so  I  am  going  to  take  the  five  minutes  that  belong  to  them. 
I  am  very  grateful  that  there  have  been  five  minutes  left  for  me.  I 
do  not  remember  that  this  has  happened  before. 

BLESSES  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

I  feel  in  my  heart  of  hearts  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel 
grateful  to  the  Lord  beyond  all  the  power  and  ability  he  has  given  me  to 
express  my  feelings  for  the  devotion  and  faith  and  integrity  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel  grateful  to  them  for  their  prayers  in  my  behalf 
a  year  ago  when  I  was  in  the  hospital. 

CONFERENCES  ESTABLISHED  BY  GOD 

I  really  felt  when  this  conference  opened  that  we  could  not  possibly 
have  a  conference  that  would  equal  the  one  we  had  six  months  ago. 
Perhaps  I  enjoyed  it  so  much  at  that  time  because  I  had  been  absent 
from  the  previous  conference,  but  I  feel  in  my  heart  that  we  have  been 
blessed  as  abundantly  during  the  three  days  of  this  conference  as  we  were 
six  months  ago.  God  established  these  conferences.  Nothing  but  the 
Spirit  of  the  living  God  could  bring  together  such  a  congregation  as  we 
had  here  this  morning,  and  as  we  have  here  this  afternoon. 

The  General  Conferences  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  one  of  the 
great  outstanding  testimonies  to  me  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged.  I  have  now  attended  these  conferences  as  one  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  for  fifty  years,  lacking  only  the  ones 
that  I  missed  when  I  was  in  Japan  and  in  Europe  and  when  I  was  ill 
a  year  ago.  I  have  heard  the  expression  after  each  and  every  con- 
ference, "The  best  we  have  ever  had." 

BECAUSE  OF    APPETITE   FOR    SUCH    THINGS 

The  main  reason  why  each  conference  seems  to  be  the  best  is  that 
we  have  an  appetite  for  such  things.  On  one  occasion  after  I  had  been 
shoveling  snow  for  many  hours,  being  on  a  delayed  train  at  the  time, 
dry  bread  tasted  very  sweet.  It  almost  makes  my  mouth  water  today 
as  I  think  of  Zebulon  Jacobs,  in  a  snow  blockade  between  here  and 
Ogden,  inviting  me  into  his  car  and  taking  a  piece  of  iron  and  breaking 
an  old  piece  of  bread  and  dividing  it  with  me.  Hunger  makes  food 
very  delicious.  Hunger  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  makes  us  enjoy 
these  conferences. 

We  have  had  a  time  of  rejoicing.  I  have  been  grateful  beyond 
expression  for  all  that  has  been  said  in  this  conference,  for  the  spirit 
of  the  brethren  and  the  inspiration  to  them.  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord 
for  the  freedom  of  utterance  that  I  had  in  my  opening  address. 

INVOKES  BLESSINGS 

May  God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints  at  home  and  abroad,  and  so 
far  as  the  power  is  given  to  me  to  call  down  the  blessings  of  the  Lord, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  119 

I  bless  you  one  and  all,  not  only  those  who  are  here,  but  those  who  are 
in  any  part  of  the  world  who  are  serving  God  and  laboring  for  his  cause. 
I  pray  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  that  God  will  bless  the  President 
of  the  United  States,  his  Cabinet,  and  the  officers  of  our  States  and 
Counties.  I  pray  that  there  may  be  such  loyalty  in  the  hearts  of  all 
citizens  of  our  country  that  they  will  not  try  to  impose  upon  the  govern- 
ment. Men  offered  their  lives  for  this  country  during  the  World  War, 
and  I  think  it  is  a  shame  that  any  man  who  is  in  such  a  favorable 
financial  condition  as  the  one  referred  to  by  President  Clark  would  draw 
support  from  the  government  of  the  United  States. 

God's  blessings  upon  you,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  Choir  sang,  as  a  closing  number,  "Jehovah,"  (Schubert)  solo 
part  by  Sister  Margaret  Stewart  Hewlett. 

Elder  Albert  H.  Belliston,  President  of  the  Juab  Stake,  pronounced 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund,  assisted  by  Albert  J.  Southwick,  con- 
ducted the  singing  at  the  Conference  meetings.  Accompaniments  and 
interludes  on  the  great  organ  wei "  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Wade 
N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Authorities  Present 1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  2 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J 16 

Prophecy  of  Joel  quoted,  16 — One  hundred  years  ago,  17 — The  eigh- 
teenth century,  17 — Moroni's  words  fulfilled,  18 — Marvelous  trans- 
formation in  Palestine,  18 — Promises  concerning  Jews  being  fulfilled, 
19 — Another  great  prophecy  fulfilled,  19 — At  the  World's  Fair  in 
Chicago,  20 — Making  history,  20 — If  we  are  different,  20 — In  prepara- 
tion for  Christ's  coming,  21 — Deliverance  promised,  21. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0 37 

Bluth,  Elder  John  V 74 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A 10 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q 31 

President  Roosevelt's  address1,  31 — Extensive  Church  Relief,  31 — Social 
justice,  32 — Comparative  economic  conditions,  32 — Church  social  stand- 
ards, 32 — Christian  qualities,  33 — National  recovery,  33 — Coordination 
of  all  relief  agencies,  34 — Self-seekers  not  in  need,  34 — Fair  consider- 
ation for  unemployed,  34 — All  able-bodied  to  work  for  relief,  34 — Aim 
of  public  works,  35 — Church  relief  policy  net  changed,  35 — Government 
responsibility  in  unemployment,  35 — Church  responsibility  and  destiny, 
36 — Initiative  and  resourcefulness,  36 — Industry  and  self-help,  37 — 
A  constructive  Church,  37. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr 100 

Gives  encouragement,  100 — Anti-Christ  predicted,  101 — Heresy  pre- 
vails, 101 — Civilization  has  not  failed,  102 — Necessities'  only  provided, 
102 — Country  next  to  God,   103 — Courage  required  of  pioneers,   103. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   104 

Those  who  bring  glad  tidings,  104 — Notable  woman  defines  success, 
104 — The  first  great  commandment,  105 — Marriage  a  co-partnership, 
106 — Latter-day  Saint  marriages,  106 — A  testimony,  107. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B 54 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting 2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 24 

General  Authorities  Present 1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 2 

General  Officers  of  the  Church 3 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church 4 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 2 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and   Officers,  2. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J 4 

Avoid  covetousness,  4 — Forty-five  years  ago  and  now,  5 — Should 
keep  pledges,  5 — Fault  finding-  denounced,  5 — Danger  in  repeal, 
6 — Avoid  bankruptcy,  6 — Revelations  from  the  Lord,  7 — Revelation 
to  Prophet's  father,  7— "White  already  to  harvest,"  8— "Thou 
shalt  not  be  idle,"  8— ''Mind  and  will"  of  God,  9 — A  solution  of  the 
problem,  9 — Blessings  promised,  10. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 16 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company  service,  16. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 21 

Eternal  riches,  22 — A  marvelous  posterity,  22 — Repetition  justi- 
fied, 23. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 46 

Comment  about  "A  poor  wayfaring  man  of  grief,"  46. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J 53 

Message  from  John  A.  Widtsoe,  S3 — Truth's  destiny,  53 — The 
Devil's  trick,  53 — The  power  of  love,  54. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 80 

Changes  in  Church  officers  since  last  April  Conference,  80. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 99 

Brethren  not  limited  in  their  remarks,  99. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 99 

Tribute  to  composers  of  music,  99. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J 117 

Blesses  Latter-day  Saints,  117 — Conferences  established  by  God, 
118 — Because  of  appetite  for  such  things,  118 — Invokes  blessings, 
118. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A 51 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W 82 

Had  turned  to  idols,  83 — Duty  to  magnify  ideals,  83 — A  prophet's 
calling,  84 — Prophecies  being  fulfilled,  84 — Covenant  with  Abra- 
ham, 84 — A  land  of  promise,  85 — Coming  of  pilgrims,  86 — Inde- 
pendence declared,  86 — Church  founded,  86 — Washington's  influ- 
ence, 86 — Overcoming  problems,  87 — Present  perplexities,  87 — 
Should  obey  laws,  88 — Opposition  of  Lucifer,  88— Influence  of  the 
Church,  88— Pleads  for  loyalty,  89. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R 57 

Jensen,  Elder  Hyrum  D. 78 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L 97 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden 41 

McKay,  Elder  David  0 11 

The  worth  of  the  individual,  11 — The  aristocracy  of  brute  force, 
11 — The  aristocracy  of  birth,  12 — The  aristocracy  of  wealth,  12 — 
The  end  of  all  social  developments,  12 — The  present  political  and 
economic  situation,  13 — The  National  Recovery  Act,  13 — Debas- 
ing of  manhood,  13 — Special  meaning  to  Latter-day  Saints,  14 — 
Personality  sacred,  15 — Duty  of  individual  to  society,  15 — The 
aristocracy  of  character,  15. 

Richards,  Elder  George  F 113 

For  the  accomplishment  of  God's  work,  113 — Work, not  retarded, 
113— The  wortk  of  God,  114 — For  the  salvation  of  man,  115 — Our 
responsibility,  115 — A  second  obligation,  116 — Meeting  the  emer- 
gency, 116 — Work  for  the  dead,  116 — A  Gospel  of  service,  117. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L 63 

Sympathy  for  unemployed,  63 — Experimental  policies,  64 — A 
fair  trial  urged,  64 — Subscribe  to  spirit  and  conform  to  require- 
ments, 64 — Appeals  for  support  for  leaders,  65 — Sustains  Govern- 
mental agencies,  65 — Pleads  for  patience,  65 — Departed  Author- 


INDEX  123 

ities  and  their  successors,  66 — The  devotion  and  testimony  of 
Willard  Richards,  66. 

Romney,  Elder  George  S 39 

Rowan,  Elder  Charles  E.,  Jr 44 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting 45 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  53 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R. 96 

Smith,  Elder  David  A 70 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert 24 

Rejoices  in  growth  of  Church,  24 — The  Lord's  work,  24 — All  have 
equal  opportunities  for  exaltation,  25 — Should  pray  for  nation's 
leaders,  26 — Rules  governing  membership  in  Christ's  Church,  26 — 
Change  in  attitude  toward  religion,  26— The  Church  all-compre- 
hensive, 26 — Must  leaven  the  lump,  27 — Service  in  the  mission  field 
27 — Our  duty  to  others,  27 — A  great  blessing,  28 — Our  oppor- 
tunities, 28 — Our  duty  to  serve,  28 — Grateful  for  blessings,  29 — 
Testimony,  30. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding 60 

Every  man  will  know  the  Lord,  60 — The  meaning  of  intelligence, 
60 — Duty  to  raise  the  warning  voice,  60 — The  words  of  Isaiah, 
61 — -The  condition  of  the  world  today,  62 — Success  dependent 
upon  attitude  of  Saints,  62 — Our  responsibility,  63. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed  107 

The  loftiest  ambition,  107 — The  Prophet's  educational  ideals,  108 — 
Reasonable  and  soul-satisfying,  108 — Man  literally  a  child  of  God, 
108 — Earth  to  be  celestialized,  108 — God's  kingdom,  109 — Reward- 
ed according  to  their  works,  109 — Loyalty  to  country,  109 — A  test 
of  faith,  110 — A  vital  and  fundamental  command,  110 — A  Re- 
deemer promised,  111 — Principle  of  faith  stressed  by  Christ,  111 — 
On  the  western  continent,  111 — In  this  dispensation,  112 — "In 
faith,  nothing  wavering,"   112. 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H 30 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   82 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting 100 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur 76 

Wells,  Elder  John    90 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S 45 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A.  (Message  read  by  President  Grant)  ....  53 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S 93 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 67 


THE  FALLING  AWAY 

By  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

This  new  work  is  a  ringing  challenge  to  Christendom  and  a  frank 
indictment  of  the  multifarious  creeds  that  are  an  outgrowth  of  the  dis- 
integrated Apostolic  Church.  It  shows  most  conclusively  and  brilliant- 
ly that  all  the  churches  had  departed  from  the  true  pattern  of  Christ 
and  lost  the  authority  completely,  long  before  the  New  Dispensation 
was  ushered  in  through  the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith. 

Yet  the  motive  of  the  author  is  not  to  tear  down,  but  rather  to 
build  up;  had  there  been  no  "falling  away,"  the  claim  of  the  prophet 
of  the  New  Dispensation  would  have  been  an  imposture;  if  there  was  a 
"falling  away,"  however,  his  claim  is  credible.  It  was  to  establish  this 
fact  sharply  and  conclusively  that  these  radio  addresses  were  given. 
All  who  heard  Elder  Roberts  or  who  will  read  these  published  dis- 
courses, will  agree  that  he  has  accomplished  the  end  in  a  scholarly  and 
convincing  manner. 

Though  most  of  the  discourses  deal  with  eras  of  apostasy  and 
centuries  of  discord,  the  ultimate  message  of  the  book  is  one  of  hope 
and  salvation  for  the  world.  The  three  discourses  on  the  Restoration 
read  like  the  happy  outcome  of  an  otherwise  tragic  story.  You  feel  at 
the  end  that  the  author  has  performed  a  necessary  but  melancholy 
task,  only  that  he  might  invest  with  true  meaning  the  unique  claim  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Appendix  of  the  new  work  is  an  answer  to  Catholic  charges 
that  the  author  had  been  unfair  in  his  use  of  evidence  and  presentation 
of  historic  facts.  His  reply  is  given  with  enough  zestful  detail  to 
leave  the  reader  without  a  single  doubt. 

Price  $1.50 


Sunday  Night  Talks  by  Radio 

By  DR.  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

In  answer  to  an  insistent  demand  the  1930  series  of  L.  D.  S.  Radio 
Addresses  given  by  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage  has  now  been  issued  in 
regular  book  form  under  the  title  of  "Sunday  Night  Talks  By  Radio." 
It  is  printed  on  a  good  grade  of  book  paper  from  type  especially  set 
for  this  edition,  and  durably  bound  in  beautiful  marblex  cloth. 

This  book  will  make  a  beautiful  as  well  as  practical  and  useful  ad- 
dition to  the  library  of  any  member  of  the  Church.  It  will  be  especially 
valuable  to  missionaries  or  prospective  missionaries. 

Price  $1.50  Postpaid 

Send  your  order  now  to  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


The  Life  Story 

OF 

Brigham  Young 

By  SUSA  YOUNG  GATES  AND  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 

WITH  A  FOREWORD  BY  HONORABLE  REED  SMOOT 

"This  book  presents  the  life  story  of  a  New  England  cabinet- 
maker, who,  well  into  his  thirties,  entered  upon  a  career  that  made 
him  an  empire  builder  of  the  West;  the  founder  of  a  hundred  cities; 
the  governor  of  one  of  the  territories  of  the  United  States:  and  one 
of  the  outstanding  figures  of  the  nineteenth  century." 

Thus  does  Senator  Smoot  begin  his  enthusiastic  foreword  to  this 
notable  biography. 

A  Special  Edition.    Beautifully  and  Substantially  Bound  in  Cloth. 
Price  $2.50 


Do  Men  Believe  What  Their 
Church  Prescribes? 

By  RULON  S.  HOWELLS 

A  comprehensive  yet  concise  study  of  leading  Christian  religions 
and  their  fundamental  subjects,  carefully  and  painstakingly  compiled 
as  a  guide  for  all  thinking  Christians. 

The  book  contains  164  pages  and  a  large  folded  chart.  The  chart 
contains  the  views  of  ten  of  the  outstanding  religious  denominations 
on  twenty-three  of  the  outstanding  fundamentals  of  the  Christian 
Doctrines. 

The  material  for  this  chart  was  furnished  by  officers  and  min- 
isters of  the  various  churches  involved,  and  is  therefore  authoritative 
in  all  of  its  statements. 

Price  $1.50 

Published  and  Distributed  by  the 

Deseret  Book  Company 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


