I 


m 


i 
ii 


i 
i 

i 
1 
I 
i 


[CENTENNIAL  NUMBER] 


ONE  HUNDREDTH  ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  6,  7,  8,  9,  1930 

With  a  Full  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


I 
I 


ft 
I 

1 


1 
I 
I 
I 

u 


I 


CA  cUhrillin&  Story  of 

CENTURY  ONE  OF 
CHURCH  HISTORY 

mERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormoniam,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time  win 
the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a  COM- 
PREHENSIVE HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H.  Roberts 
has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set  down  the 
record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  brilliant  appraisal  of 
momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a  sentimental  interest  will 
be  fascinated  with  this  narrative  of  truth  stranger  than  fiction; 
the  reader  who  approaches  the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision 
of  the  historian  will  find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact, 
copious  in  detail  and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was  writ- 
ten by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaustively  complete, 
from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close  of  the  Centennial 
Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final  volume  ends  with  an 
account  of  the  Conference  itself,  making  the  history  technically 
inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in  Century  One  of  the  organized 
existence  of  the  Church.  Thus  it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of 
one  hundred  years  of  struggle  and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  history 
of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in  AMERICANA, 
running  serially  for  six  years  through  that  magazine,  yet  this 
History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of  material,  new  in  method 
of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical  representation  of  the  book 
maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 

For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundredth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundredth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Sunday,  Monday,  Tuesday,  and  Wednesday,  April  6,  7,  8  and  9, 
1930.  This  being  the  centennial  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  and  special  and  appropriate  services  having  been  arranged  for 
the  celebration  of  this  notable  occasion,  (including  the  presentation 
of  the  Pageant,  "The  Message  of  the  Ages")  the  number  of  saints  who 
had  come  to  the  city  from  all  parts  of  the  Church  for  the  purpose  of 
attending  these  services  was  far  greater  than  at  any  previous  conference. 

The  proceedings  of  all  of  the  sessions  of  the  General  Conference 
were  broadcast  by  radio  over  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City. 

The  weather  was  ideal  during  the  entire  Conference. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,  *,  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards, 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  f . 

Presiding  Patriarch :   Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy:  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  and  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q,  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants:  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  f,  and 
Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors  were  unusually  well  repre- 
sented from  all  the  stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  a  very 
large  number  of  high  priests,  seventies,  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of 
the  Church.  Members  of  the  Board  of  Education,  and  general,  stake, 
ward  and  mission  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 


*Reed  Smoot  was  absent,  in  Washington,  D.  C. 

tJohn  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

JA.  William  Lund  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Mission  Presidents:  James  H.  Moyle,  Eastern  States;  Noah  S. 
Pond,  Northern  States;  Arthur  Welling,  North  Central  States; 
Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States ; 
Charles  A.  Callis,  .'Southern  States;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Western 
States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  William  R.  Sloan,  North- 
western States ;  Charles  H.  Hart,  Canada ;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

In  accordance  with  instructions  previously  issued  by  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  following  program  was  carried  out  in 
all  the  wards  and  branches  of  the  Church,  commencing  at  10:00  a.  m., 
Sunday,  April  6th,  except  in  such  wards  and  branches  where  arrange- 
ments had  been  made  for  the  people  to  assemble  in  their  local  chapels 
and  listen,  by  means  of  radio  equipment,  to  the  services  as  they  were 
broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City : 

"We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet."  (By  choir  and  congre- 
gation.) 

Opening  prayer. 

"An  angel  from  on  high."    (Duet  and  chorus.) 

Address  of  the  First  Presidency.  (A  copy  of  this  address  had  been 
sent  in  advance  to  each  ward  and  branch  in  the  Church,  and  was  read 
by  one  of  the  elders.  This  same  message  was  read  by  President  Grant 
at  the  meeting  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  this  same  hour.) 

"The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning."  (By  choir  and  con- 
gregation.) 

One  or  two  brief  addresses. 

Sustaining  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 
Hosanna  Shout.    (In  unison  by  the  congregation.) 
"Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah."    (By  choir  and 
congregation.) 
Benediction. 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  at  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning,  April  6th,  1930. 

The  attendance  at  the  meeting  in  the  Tabernacle  was  limited 
largely  to  officers  of  priesthood  quorums :  the  Aaronic  priesthood  mem- 
bers being  seated  in  one  group,  and  the  Melchizedek  priesthood  being 
divided  into  groups  of  high  priests,  seventies,  and  elders.  The  building 
was  crowded  to  capacity,  every  seat  being  taken,  and  the  aisles  and 
doorways  and  every  other  available  space  occupied. 

For  the  benefit  of  those  who  could  not  be  accommodated  in  the 
Tabernacle,  loud  speakers  were  installed  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
Barratt  Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  Prof. 
Anthony  C.  Lund,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O 
God,  for  a  prophet." 

Elder  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  the  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church, 
offered  the  invocation. 

"An  angel  from  on  high"  was  sung  by  Cyril  Martin  and  Id|a 
Hepworth,  the  choir  and  congregation  joining  in  the  chorus. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  beyond  my  power  to  express  as  I 
look  upon  this  wonderful  audience  of  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God, 
together  with  officers  of  our  organizations,  assembled  here  in  conference 
in  commemoration  of  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  organization 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  am  about  to  read  to  you  an  address  by  the  First  Presidency  of 
the  Church,  copies  of  which  have  been  sent  to  all  wards,  stakes  and 
missions  in  all  countries  where  we  have  organizations  of  the  Church. 
At  this  hour  all  over  the  world  this  message  will  be  read  to  our  people. 

THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY  OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS 
CHRIST  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  TO  OUR  BELOVED 
BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS  THROUGHOUT  THE  WORLD: 

On  this,  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  we  salute  you,  and  pray  that  the  blessing  of  God  our  Father, 
and  the  grace  and  love  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord,  may  abide  with  you 
forever. 

We  preface  our  message  to  you  by  reference  to  the  following 
scripture : 

"Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  am  the  life  and  the  light  of 
the  world.  I  am  the  light  which  shineth  in  darkness,  and  the  darkness  compre- 
hendeth  it  not." 

As  Moses  lifted  up  the  serpent  in  the  wilderness,  even  so  was  the 
Son  of  God  lifted  up,  that  whosoever  believeth  in  him  shall  not  perish, 
but  have  eternal  life. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  through  its  presi- 
dency, reaffirms  the  truths  set  forth  in  the  above  scripture,  and  calls 
upon  its  members  in  all  parts  of  the  world  to  rededicate  their  lives  to 
the  service  of  the  Master  and  the  establishment  of  his  kingdom  upon 
earth. 

From  the  beginning  of  time,  as  we  count  it,  to  the  present, 
God  our  Father  has,  at  divers  times,  both  by  his  own  voice  and  the  voice 
of  his  inspired  prophets,  declared  that  he  would  send  to  earth  his  only 
begotten  Son,  that  through  him,  by  means  of  the  resurrection,  of  which 
our  Lord  was  the  first  fruits,  mankind  might  be  redeemed  from  the 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


penalty  of  death,  to  which  all  flesh  is  heir  and  by  obedience  to  the  law 
of  righteous  living,  which  he  taught  and  exemplified  in  his  life,  be 
cleansed  from  personal  sin  and  made  heirs  to  the  Kingdom  of  Heaven. 

In  songs  of  praise  the  Psalmist  declared  his  coming.  In  ecstasy 
the  prophet  Isaiah  looked  forward  to  the  day  when  he  would  manifest 
himself  among  men,  and,  by  foreknowledge  which  came  from  the 
Father,  announced  the  details  of  his  death  and  the  dire  consequences  of 
his  crucifixion. 

The  Redeemer  himself  declared,  notwithstanding  the  apparent 
failure  of  his  mission  and  ministry  as  it  applied  to  the  generation  to 
which  he  brought  the  message  of  salvation,  that  at  a  period  of  time 
then  in  the  remote  future,  a  period  designated  as  the  latter-days,  the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  he  would  again  reveal  himself, 
would  re-establish  his  Church  upon  earth,  and  come  to  reign  in 
triumph  and  majesty  over  his  people. 

In  humility,  and  with  full  consciousness  of  the  responsibility  in- 
volved, we  bear  witness  to  the  people  of  the  world  that  with  the 
appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in 
the  early  spring  of  1820,  the  greatest  gospel  dispensation  of  all  time  was 
ushered  in,  a  dispensation  of  light,  radiating  from  the  presence  of  God, 
illuminating  the  minds  of  men,  increasing  intelligence  and  knowledge, 
which  is  the  glory  of  God,  and  by  the  application  of  which  the  past  one 
hundred  years  have  been  made  the  Miracle  Century  of  the  ages. 

The  increase  of  scientific  knowledge,  invention,  industrial  develop- 
ment; the  harnessing  of  the  forces  of  the  universe  and  adapting  them 
to  the  comfort  and  convenience  of  man,  have  reached  a  degree  of  per- 
fection not  dreamed  of  by  people  who  lived  when  the  past  century  was 
ushered  in. 

In  1830  Abraham  Lincoln  attained  his  majority.  He  was  still 
pursuing  his  studies  by  the  light  of  a  tallow  dip,  or  pine  knot,  because 
there  was  nothing  better  to  be  had ;  and  it  was  under  these  circumstances 
that  he  prepared  himself  to  become  the  foremost  citizen  of  his  country, 
thirty  years  later. 

Since  that  time  our  system  of  education  has  undergone  a  miraculous 
change.  The  log  or  little  brick  school-house  of  a  century  ago  has 
been  supplanted  by  temples  of  learning,  in  which  our  children  enjoy 
conveniences  and  comforts  that  the  wealth  of  kingdoms  could  not,  at 
that  time,  have  provided.  They  have  maps  of  the  world  before  them, 
books  treating  all  known  subjects,  teachers  better  informed  upon  the 
subjects  taught,  heat  provided;  and  when  they  require  light  they  touch 
a  button  and  the  electric  current  does  the  rest. 

Agriculture,  the  foundation  upon  which  the  very  existence  of  the. 
human  race  is  builded,  was  still  in  a  primitive  condition.  Men  har- 
vested with  a,  scythe  or  sickle  the  grain  which  grew  in  their  fields,  and 
threshed  it  with  a  flail. 

A  man  now  sits  upon  a  machine,  and  at  one  operation,  reaps, 
threshes  and  sacks  ten  acres  of  grain,  with  less  fatigue  than  he  formerly 
harvested  one. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


Women  carded  and  spun  the  wool  and  wove  the  cloth  with  which 
they  and  their  children  were  clothed. 

The  cards,  spinning  wheel,  and  loom  have  passed.  They  are  now 
to  be  seen  only  as  heirlooms  or  sacredly  cherished  souvenirs. 

Possibly  no  other  human  agency  has  greater  influence  upon  civili- 
zation and  the  development  of  the  people  of  the  world  than  that  which 
provides  quick  (and  easy  transportation  of  people  and  things  from  place 
to  place.  By  it  individuals,  communities,  and  nations  come  to  know  each 
other  better,  exchange  of  commodities  is  made  possible,  and  the  com- 
merce of  the  world  is  maintained. 

For  this  purpose  roads  made  by  men  thread  the  world.  We  travel 
over  them  now  on  bands  of  steel,  in  luxurious  motor  cars,  in  floating 
palaces,  or  through  the  air. 

Only  yesterday  these  roads  were  mere  trails,  blazed  by  fearless, 
intrepid  men,  through  unknown  forests,  over  snow-clad  mountains, 
across  trackless  deserts  or  uncharted  seas. 

In  fulfilment  of  the  words  uttered  by  inspired  prophets,  thousands 
of  years  ago,  the  wooden  boats  in  which  we  sailed  the  seas  at  the 
beginning  of  the  past  century  have  been  supplanted  by  floating  palaces 
of  steel,  in  which  we  ride  the  waves  or  navigate  the  ocean's  depths  in 
safety. 

For  silver  the  Lord  has  given  us  gold,  which  has  become  the  basis 
of  exchange  throughout  the  civilized  world ;  while  iron  takes  the  place 
of  wood  and  stone  in  construction. 

By  the  application  of  scientific  methods,  which  have  been  revealed 
during  the  past  century,  the  profession  of  medicine  and  surgery  has 
brought  to  the  people  of  the  world  relief  from  the  most  dreaded  diseases, 
which  devastated  communities  and  at  times  threatened  the  very  existence 
of  mankind. 

Undoubtedly  the  greatest  miracle  of  the  century  is  the  accomplish- 
ment by  which  the  human  voice,  with  the  personality  of  the  speaker, 
may  be  indefinitely  preserved  and  reproduced  with  every  detail  of 
originality. 

Whether  uttered  in  the  frozen  arctics,  or  from  the  jungles  of  the 
tropics,  without  visible  means  of  conduct,  the  human  voice  instantly 
circles  the  earth,  thus  overcoming  the  hitherto  insurmountable  barrier 
of  both  time  and  space. 

Contemplating  these  accomplishments  of  the  past  century,  to  which 
but  brief  reference  has  been  made,  we  are  led  to  exclaim : 

Great  and  marvelous  are  thy  ways,  O  Lord 
From  eternity  to  eternity  Thou  art  the  same ! 
Thy  purposes  fail  not,  neither  are  there  any 
who  can  stay  Thy  hand  ! 

THE  CHURCH 

The  Annunciation.  As  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone  round  about 
shepherds,  who  kept  watch  over  their  flocks  by  night  upon  the  hills  of 
Judea,  and  the  angel  of  the  Lord  announced  to  them  that  there  had 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


been  born  that  day,  in  the  city  of  David,  a  Savior,  who  was  Christ 
the  Lord,  the  light  of  the  Christian  Dispensation  burst  forth  upon  the 
world. 

"And  suddenly  there  was  with  the  angel  a  multitude  of  the  heavenly  host 
praising  God,  and  saying, 

"Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,  and  on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward  men." 

The  heavens  were  illuminated  by  the  glory  of  the  Lord,  the 
heavenly  host  shouted  hosannas  as  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem,  the  Son  of 
God,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  he  who  was  to 
become  the  Savior  of  mankind,  was  born  into  the  world. 

From  the  time  of  his  birth  to  the  day  of  his  crucifixion,  Satan, 
that  old  serpent,  the  devil,  the  enemy  of  all  that  is  good,  he  who  by  his 
wiles  and  deception  tempted  our  first  parents  and  brought  death  into 
the  world,  sought  the  destruction  of  our  Lord. 

Kings  persecuted  him,  because  they  knew  and  feared  his  power. 
The  learned  and  wealthy  spurned  him,  because  of  his  humble  birth; 
while  the  ignorant,  not  understanding,  left  him  in  derision. 

The  personal  ministry  of  Jesus  was  of  short  duration.  But  thirty- 
three  years  elapsed  from  the  time  of  his  birth  to  the  day  of  his  cruci- 
fixion, and  but  a  small  portion  of  this  time  was  devoted  to  his  ministry. 
From  the  time  of  the  delivery  of  his  great  sermon  on  the  Mount,  but 
three  years  elapsed  until  his  death. 

During  the  brief  period  of  his  ministry  he  effected  the  organization 
of  his  Church,  selected  twelve  apostles,  upon  whom,  with  Peter  at  their 
head,  he  conferred  the  keys  of  the  priesthood,  and  to  whom  he  made 
plain  the  organization  of  his  Church  and  the  doctrines  of  his  Gospel, 
by  obedience  to  which  mankind  may  be  redeemed  and  brought  back 
into  the  presence  of  God.  This  accomplished,  he  declared  his  mortal 
mission  completed,  and  went  to  his  death  with  the  sublime  prayer 
upon  his  lips  that  his  Father  would  pardon  those  who  were  responsible 
for  his  crucifixion.  In  their  ignorance  they  knew  not  what  they  had 
done. 

THE  FIRST  CENTURY  OF  THE  PRIMITIVE  CHURCH 

During  the  first  century  of  the  Christian  Era',  Octavius,  Caligula, 
Nero,  Vespacian  and  his  son  Titus,  all  of  whom  were  bitter  persecutors 
of  the  Church,  occupied  the  throne  of  Rome. 

Pagan  Rome  had  become  the  mistress  of  the  world.  From  the 
time  of  the  crucifixion  of  Jesus,  persecution  of  the  Christians  had  been 
merciless  and  wicked  beyond  expression.  During  the  reign  of  Caligula 
and  Nero,  who  were  more  brute  than  human,  Christian  men  were  slain 
without  mercy,  while  their  wives  and  daughters  were  carried  away  to 
Rome,  to  be  sold  to  the  highest  bidder,  or  distributed  to  a  depraved 
soldiery. 

Men,  women,  and  children  were  cast  into  the  great  amphitheater  at 
Rome,  to  be  torn  by  wild  beasts  or  fight  for  their  lives,  for  the  enter- 
tainment of  these  inhuman  monsters.    Christians,  their  bodies  covered 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


with  combustibles,  were  made  to  stand  upon  the  walls,  to  be  burned,  in 
order  that  light  might  be  provided  for  the  spectacle  below. 

To  deprive  Christians  of  life  was  not  sufficient.  Every  cruel  means 
of  torture  that  the  human  mind  could  suggest,  which  might  add  to  the 
suffering  of  the  victim,  was  applied. 

The  falling  away  which  had  been  predicted  by  the  prophets  had 
come.  The  man  of  sin,  the  son  of  perdition,  was  revealed,  who  opposes 
and  exalts  himself  above  all  that  is  called  God,  or  that  is  worshipped ; 
so  that  he  as  God  sitteth  in  the  temple  of  God,  showing  himself  that 
he  is  God.    (2nd  Thessalonians  2:3-4). 

Thus  centuries  passed,  centuries  during  which  darkness  covered 
the  earth  and  gross  darkness  the  minds  of  the  people,  centuries  during 
which  Satan,  in  an  orgy  of  Pagan  idolatry,  ruled  the  world. 

A  NEW  GOSPEL  DISPENSATION 

The  opening  of  a  new  gospel  dispensation  was  not  a  thing  of 
chance.  Jesus  Christ,  through  his  messenger,  had  declared  to  John 
while  he  was  upon  the  isle  of  Patmos,  that  an  angel  would  come  flying 
through  the  midst  of  the  heavens,  having  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  preach 
to  them  that  dwell  upon  the  earth,  calling  them  back  to  the  worship 
of  God  who  is  the  Maker  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  the  sea  and  the 
fountains  of  water.  The  Redeemer  himself  had  declared  that  before 
the  time  of  his  glorious  appearance,  to  assume  his  rightful  place  among 
his  people,  the  Gospel  of  his  kingdom  should  be  preached  in  all  the 
world,  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  before  the  coming  of  the  end. 

As  the  time  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  was  clearly  indicated, 
so  was  the  gathering  place  of  those  who  would  accept  the  truth  definitely 
declared.  The  prophet  Isaiah  had  said  that  it  should  come  to  pass  in 
the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  would  be  established 
in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  be  exalted  above  the  hills,  and  that 
people  from  all  nations  would  flow  unto  it.  Many  people,  he  declared, 
would  go  and  say :  "Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of 
the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob."  For  what  purpose?  That 
they  might  be  taught  the  way  of  the  Lord,  and  learn  to  walk  in  his  paths. 

At  the  time  of  the  calling  of  Abraham,  the  Lord  entered  into 
covenants  with  him  and  his  posterity,  in  which  he  promised  that  Pales- 
tine should  be  theirs  for  an  everlasting  heritage.  This  promise  was 
repeated  to  Isaac,  and  confirmed  upon  the  head  of  Jacob. 

Prior  to  his  death  our  father  Jacob  called  his  twelve  sons  to  him, 
blessed  them,  and  defined  the  future  of  their  posterity,  adding  little 
to  that  which  had  before  been  promised,  until  he  laid  his  hands  upon 
the  head  of  Joseph  and  not  only  conferred  upon  him  the  blessing  and 
heritage  of  his  fathers,  but  also  declared  that  his  heritage  prevailed 
above  that  of  his  progenitors,  unto  the  utmost  bounds  of  the  Everlasting 
Hills,  to  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands,  a  land  rich  in  the  blessings 
of  the  earth,  of  the  heavens  above,  and  the  sea  beneath. 

Upon  Ephraim,  the  younger  of  the  two  sons  born  to  Joseph  during 
his  sojourn  in  Egypt,  he  sealed  the  heirship  to  the  blessings  and 
promises  conferred  upon  his  father. 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


While  Satan  held  the  world  in  spiritual  darkness,  by  means  of 
priestcraft  and  idolatry,  he  shackled  the  masses  with  the  chains  of 
kingcraft,  and  thus  held  the  world  in  both  spiritual  and  civil  bondage. 

As  the  time  of  the  end  drew  nearer,  God's  Spirit  descended  upon 
men,  impelling  them  to  break  the  shackles  of  idolatry  and  priestcraft 
with  which  they  were  bound. 

When  John  Wycliffe,  John  Huss,  and  William  Tyndale,  (all  of 
whom  suffered  martyrdom  for  their  faith)  Martin  Luther  and  others, 
gave  the  Holy  Scriptures  to  the  people  of  the  world,  and  in  the  strength 
of  Israel's  God  declared  the  truth,  the  beginning  of  the  end  had  come. 

When  the  people  of  Great  Britain  wrung  from  King  John  the 
Magna  Charta,  when  Oliver  Cromwell  later  cut  off  the  head  of  King 
Charles  the  First,  and  the  Covenanters  of  Scotland  took  up  arms  against 
the  then  dominant  church,  the  morning  star  of  hope  arose,  heralding 
the  sunshine  of  a  brighter  day. 

The  coming  of  Columbus  to  America  had  been  foretold  centuries 
before  he  sailed  from  the  port  of  Palos,  in  Spain.  The  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  was  upon  him,  was  his  guide  and  protector  in  his  great  adventure, 
and  led  him  to  the  shores  of  a  new  world. 

It  was  not  by  chance  that  the  Puritans  left  their  native  land  and 
sailed  away  to  the  shores  of  New  England,  and  that  others  followed 
later.  They  were  the  advance  guard  of  the  army  of  the  Lord,  pre- 
destined to  establish  the  God-given  system  of  government  under  which 
we  live,  and  to  make  of  America,  which  is  the  land  of  ^Joseph,  the 
gathering  place  of  Ephraim,  an  asylum  for  the  oppressed  of  all  nations, 
and  prepare  the  way  for  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ  and 
the  reestablishment  of  his  Church  upon  earth.  It  was  under  these 
circumstances  and  others  of  which  the  Lord  was  the  author,  that  the 
stage  was  set  for  the  raising  of  the  curtain  upon  the  opening  scene  of 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 

As  the  Christian  Dispensation  was  ushered  in,  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  shone  round  about  the  shepherds  who  kept  watch  over  their 
flocks  by  night  upon  the  hills  of  Judea,  while  the  voice  of  the  angel  of 
the  Lord  declared  the  Babe  of  Bethlehem  to  be  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

So  also  the  glory  of  the  Lord  overshadowed  Joseph  Smith,  and 
God  himself,  in  the  glory  and  majesty  of  his  person,  with  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  Jehovah,  revealed  himself  in  vision,  and  with  his  own 
voice  designated  Joseph  Smith  to  be  the  instrument  through  whom  the 
greatest  gospel  dispensation  of  the  ages  was  to  be  ushered  in. 

There  was  nothing  of  ostentation,  pageantry  or  dramatic  display; 
it  was  a  simple,  solemn  occasion,  superlatively  glorious  and  impressive 
beyond  expression. 

The  voice  of  the  Lord,  which  had  been  silent  for  ages,  was  heard 
again.  Again  that  divine  message,  so  oft  repeated,  was  delivered: 
"This  is  my  Beloved  Son.  Hear  him !"  The  personality  of  the  Father 
and  his  Only  Begotten  Son  was  again  revealed  that  mankind  may  know 
them  as  they  are. 

Of  his  first  vision  Joseph  Smith  says: 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


"After  I  had  retired  to  the  place  where  I  had  previously  designed  to  go, 
having  looked  around  me  and  finding  myself  alone,  I  kneeled  down  and  began  to 
offer  up  the  desires  of  my  heart  to  God.  I  had  scarcely  done  so  when  immediately 
I  was  seized  upon  by  some  power  which  entirely  overcame  me,  and  had  such  an 
astonishing  influence  over  me  as  to  bind  my  tongue  so  that  I  could  not  speak. 
Thick  darkness  gathered  around  me,  and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a  time  that  I  was 
doomed  to  sudden  destruction. 

"But,  exerting  all  my  power  to  call  upon  God  to  deliver  me  out  of  the  power 
of  this  enemy  which  had  seized  upon  me,  and  at  the  very  moment  when  I  was 
ready  to  sink  into  despair  and  abandon  myself  to  destruction — not  to  an  imaginary 
ruin,  but  to  the  power  of  some  actual  being  from  the  unseen  world,  who  had 
such  marvelous  power  as  I  had  never  before  felt  in  any  being — just  at  this 
moment  of  great  alarm,  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over  my  head,  above 
the  brightness  of  the  sun,  which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 

"It  no  sooner  appeared  than  I  found  myself  delivered  from  the  enemy  which 
held  me  bound.  When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I  saw  two  personages,  whose 
brightness  and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing  above  me  in  the  air.  One  of 
them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by  name,  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.    Hear  Him !" 

(When  the  Apostle  Paul  appeared  before  King  Agrippa  and  Festus, 
the  Roman  Procurator,  he  declared  that  Jesus  Christ,  who  had  been 
crucified  upon  Calvary,  was  risen  from  the  dead ;  that  he  lived  and  had 
appeared  to  him  in  a  cloud  of  light,  calling  him  to  be  his  messenger 
to  the  Gentiles.  Festus,  in  amazement,  cried  out:  "Paul,  thou  art 
beside  thyself ;  much  learning  doth  make  thee  mad."  But  Paul  replied — 
"I  am  not  mad,  most  noble  Festus,  but  speak  forth  the  words  of  truth 
and  soberness." 

In  like  manner  Joseph  Smith,  an  obscure  country  boy,  fifteen  years 
of  age,  when  he  related  to  certain  sectarian  ministers  of  the  neighbor- 
hood that  he  had  received  a  heavenly  vision,  was  made  the  victim  of 
ridicule  and  bitter  persecution. 

Men  flew  into  passion  as  they  declared  that  it  was  all  from  the 
devil,  that  there  were  no  such  things  as  visions  and  revelations  in  these 
days ;  that  all  such  things  had  ceased  with  the  Apostles,  and  that  there 
would  never  be  any  more  of  them. 

Satan  again  manifested  his  power  and  determination  to  frustrate  the 
will  of  Christ,  that  he  might  maintain  his  dominion  over  the  world  and 
continue  to  hold  captive  the  souls  of  men.  From  that  hour  he  raged 
in  the  hearts  of  the  wicked,  until  he  finally  encompassed  the  death  of 
the  Prophet;  not,  however,  until  he  had  accomplished  the  work  which 
the  Lord  had  sent  him  into  the  world  to  do. 

Like  Paul,  Joseph  Smith,  during  the  three  years  intervening  after 
his  vision,  steadfastly  maintained  that  in  vision  he  had  seen  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  had  heard  the  voice  of  the  Lord. 

On  the  evening  of  September  21,  1823,  he  had  retired  as  usual 
to  his  bed  room  for  the  night,  a  night  fraught  with  events  of  which 
he  had  not  dreamed,  events  of  supreme  importance  to  him  and  to  the 
people  of  the  world.    He  says : 

"While  I  was  thus  in  the  act  of  calling  upon  God  I  discovered  a  light 
appearing  in  my  room,  which  continued  to  increase  until  the  room  was  lighter 
than  at  noonday,  when  immediately  a  personage  appeared  at  my  bedside,  standing 
in  the  air,  for  his  feet  did  not  touch  the  floor. 


to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"He  had  on  a  loose  robe  of  most  exquisite  whiteness,  it  was  a  whiteness 
beyond  anything  earthly  I  had  ever  seen ;  nor  do  I  believe  that  any  earthly  thing 
could  be  made  to  appear  so  exceedingly  white  and  brilliant.  His  hands  were 
naked,  and  his  arms  also,  a  little  above  the  wrists ;  so,  also,  were  his  feet  naked, 
as  were  his  legs,  a  little  above  the  ankles.  His  head  and  neck  were  also  bare. 
I  could  discover  that  he  had  no  other  clothing  on  but  this  robe,  as  it  was  open, 
so  that  I  could  see  into  his  bosom. 

"Not  only  was  his  robe  exceedingly  white,  but  his  whole  person  was 
glorious  beyond  description,  and  his  countenance  truly  like  lightning.  The  room 
was  exceedingly  light,  but  not  so  very  bright  as  immediately  around  his  person. 
When  I  first  looked  upon  him  I  was  afraid ;  but  the  fear  soon  left  me. 

"He  called  me  by  name,  and  said  that  he  was  a  messenger  sent  from  the 
presence  of  God  to  me,  and  that  his  name  was  Moroni;  that  God  had  a  work 
for  me  to  do;  and  that  my  name  should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among  all 
nations,  kindreds,  and  tongues,  or  that  it  should  be  both  good  and  evil  spoken 
of  among  all  people." 

This  messenger  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith  that  there  was  a  book 
deposited,  written  upon  gold  plates,  giving  an  account  of  the  ancient 
inhabitants  of  America  and  the  source  from  whence  they  came,  and 
that  the  plates  would  later  be  delivered  into  his  hands  to  be  translated 
and  published  to  the  world. 

On  the  twenty- third  day  of  September,  1827,  the  plates  containing 
the  record  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  were  delivered  to  Joseph  Smith  who, 
by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  translated  the  characters  which  were 
engraven  upon  them. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  does  not  in  any  degree  conflict  with  or  take 
the  place  of  the  Holy  Bible,  but  is  the  strongest  corroborative  evidence 
in  existence  of  the  divine  origin  of  that  sacred  record.  It  has  been 
before  the  world  for  more  than  a  century,  during  which  time  no 
statement  contained  in  it,  whether  it  refers  to  the  civil  history  or  the 
religion  of  the  people  who  kept  the  record,  has  been  proved  to  be  untrue. 

As  the  translation  of  the  characters  engraven  upon  the  plates  on 
which  the  Nephite  record  was  kept  proceeded  Joseph  Smith  discovered 
that  the  doctrine  of  baptism  was  taught  and  practised  by  the  Nephite 
people.  Desiring  to  better  understand  this  principle  he  did  as  he  had 
done  before,  went  with  Oliver  Cowdery,  his  scribe,  into  the  woods,  and 
engaged  in  earnest  prayer.  The  following  is  quoted  from  his  own 
words : 

"While  we  were  thus  employed,  praying  and  calling  upon  the  Lord,  a 
messenger  from  heaven  descended  in  a  cloud  of  light,  and  having  laid  his  hands 
upon  us  he  ordained  us,  saying : 

"  'Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the  name  of  Messiah,  I  confer  the 
Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  ministering  of  angels,  and  of 
the  gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins ; 
and  this  shall  never  be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until  the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer 
again  an  offering  unto  the  Lord  in  righteousness.' 

"The  messenger  who  visited  us  on  this  occasion  and  conferred  this  priesthood 
upon  us,  said  his  name  was  John,  the  same  that  is  called  John  the  Baptist  in  the 
New  Testament,  and  that  he  acted  under  the  direction  of  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  who  held  the  keys  of  the  priesthood  of  Melchizedek,  which  priesthood, 
he  said,  would  in  due  time  be  conferred  upon  us." 

With  this  ordination,  and  the  restoration  of  the  Melchizedek 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


Priesthood  which  was  later  conferred  as  promised,  the  fulness  of  the 
keys  and  authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God,  which  had  for 
centuries  been  lost  to  mankind,  was  restored  and  has  remained  with  the 
Church  in  unbroken  succession  until  the  present  time. 

With  the  restoration  of  the  priesthood  the  way  was  open  for  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel,  the  administration  of  the  ordinances  pertaining 
thereto,  and  the  organization  of  the  Church. 

On  the  sixth  day  of  April,  one  hundred  years  ago  today,  Joseph 
Smith,  with  five  others  who  had  accepted  the  message  of  the  restored 
Gospel,  met"  at  the  home  of  Peter  Whitmer,  Sr.,  at  Fayette,  Seneca 
County,  New  York.  The  sacrament  of  bread  and  wine  was  administered 
and  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  organized. 

In  his  sermon  on  the  Mount  the  Master  declares  that  a  tree  is 
known  by  the  fruit  which  it  produces.  We  do  not  gather  grapes  from 
thorns  nor  figs  from  thistles.  A  bitter  fountain  cannot  bring  forth  good 
water,  nor  does  a  good  fountain  bring  forth  bitter  water.  By  this  un- 
changeable law  we  ask  the  world  to  judge  the  accomplishments  of  the 
Church  during  the  past  century. 

It  was  after  his  resurrection  that  the  Master  commissioned  his 
disciples  to  go  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  all  people, 
baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

In  like  manner  have  the  disciples  of  Christ  in  the  present  dispensa- 
tion, his  Apostles,  High  Priests,  Seventies,  (who  are  his  especially 
chosen  ministry)  and  the  Elders  of  the  Church,  carried  the  glad  tidings 
of  the  restored  Gospel  to  every  part  of  the  civilized  world  during  the 
century  past,  and  wherever  the  message  has  been  proclaimed  there  have 
been  honest  souls  who  have  accepted  it  and  gathered  to  Zion,  in  ful- 
filment of  the  words  of  the  ancient  prophets. 

The  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  has  been  established  in  the  top 
of  the  mountains,  and  people  from  all  nations  have  flowed  unto  it. 
Through  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  their  labors  the  desert  has  been 
subdued  and  made  to  blossom  as  the  rose.  Solitary  places  have  been 
made  glad  because  of  them.  Cities  have  been  established,  springs  of 
water  have  broken  out  which  have  given  life  to  the  thirsty  land,  music, 
and  the  voices  of  children  are  heard  in  the  streets  where  desolation  and 
silence  had  reigned  for  ages. 

Temples  have  been  erected  in  which  the  work  of  redemption  has 
been  done  for  an  innumerable  host  of  the  living  and  the  dead. 

Many  thousands  have  been  brought  from  the  poverty  and  distress 
of  the  old  world  to  this  blessed  land  of  Joseph,  to  become  wealthy  and 
be  made  happy  as  they  have  participated  in  the  blessings  which  the 
Lord  our  God  has  pronounced  upon  it. 

Looking  backward  to  the  organization  of  the  Church,  which  oc- 
curred under  the  most  humble  and,  to  the  world,  obscure  circumstances, 
and  following  its  history  through  persecution,  poverty,  and  distress,  can 
it  be  denied  that  a  great  and  marvelous  work  has  been  accomplished, 
that  the  promises  of  the  Lord  have  been  fulfilled,  and  his  power  to  ac- 
complish that  to  which  he  sets  his  hand  to  do,  manifested? 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Let  glory  and  honor  be  ascribed  unto  God  our  Father,  through 
Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  forever,  for  he  is  the  author  of  it  all. 

WHAT  OF  THE  FUTURE 

The  future,  as  outlined  in  the  predictions  of  the  ancient  prophets 
and  confirmed  by  modern  revelation,  is  pregnant  with  hope  for  the 
Church. 

Jesus  Christ  our  Lord  said: 

"Think  not  that  I  am  come  to  destroy  the  law,  or  the  prophets :  I  am  not 
come  to  destroy,  but  to  fulfil.  For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  Till  heaven  and  earth 
pass,  one  jot  or  one  tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  from  the  law,  till  all  be  fulfilled." 

With  the  present  momentum  with  which  the  people  of  the  world 
are  moving  forward  in  the  determination  of  truth  in  every  field  of 
human  endeavor,  the  outlook  for  the  future  passes  beyond  the  vision 
of  human  comprehension. 

Jesus  Christ,  referring  to  the  time  when  he  would  manifest  himself 
in  the  latter  days,  declared  that  whereas  he  manifested  himself  to  his 
own  people  in  the  meridian  of  time  and  they  rejected  him,  in  the  latter 
days  he  would  come  first  to  the  Gentiles,  and  then  to  the  house  of 
Israel.    He  says: 

"When  the  time  of  the  Gentiles  is  come  in,  a  light  shall  break  forth  among 
them  that  sit  in  darkness,  and  it  shall  be  the  fulness  of  my  gospel.  But  they 
receive  it  not;  for  they  perceive  not  the  light,  and  they  turn  their  hearts  from  me 
because  of  the  precepts  of  men.  And  in  that  generation  shall  the  times  of  the 
Gentiles  be  fulfilled." 

"At  that  time,  saith  the  Lord,  I  will  remember  the  covenant  which  I  have 
made  with  my  people  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel,  and  will  send  my  gospel 
to  them." 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  I  will  establish  my  people,  O  house  of 
Israel,  and  I  will  remember  the  covenant  which  I  have  made  with  my  people, 
and  I  have  covenanted  with  them  that  I  would  gather  them  together,  in  mine  own 
due  time,  that  I  would  give  unto  them  again  the  land  of  their  fathers  for  their 
inheritance,  which  is  the  land  of  Jerusalem,  which  is  the  promised  land  unto 
them  forever,  saith  the  Father. 

"And  behold,  this  people  (the  Nephites)  will  I  establish  in  this  land, 
(America)  and  it  shall  be  a  new  Jerusalem.  And  the  powers  of  heaven  shall 
be  in  the  midst  of  this  people;  yea,  even  I  will  be  in  the  midst  of  you.  And 
then  shall  be  brought  to  pass  that  which  is  written : 

"Awake,  awake  again  and  put  on  thy  strength,  O  Zion ;  put  on  thy  beautiful 
garments,  O  Jerusalem,  the  Holy  City.  For  thenceforth  there  shall  no  more 
come  into  thee  the  uncircumcised  and  the  unclean :  For  thus  saith  the  Lord : 
Ye  have  sold  yourselves  for  naught,  and  ye  shall  be  redeemed  without  money." 

From  the  words  of  the  Prophet  Daniel  we  quote  the  following : 

"In  the  days  of  these  kings  shall  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom,  which 
shall  never  be  destroyed :  and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other  people,  but 
it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it  shall  stand 
forever." 

John,  the  beloved  disciple  of  our  Lord,  says: 

"I  saw  a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth ;  for  the  first  heaven  and  the  first 
earth  were  passed  away :  And  I  John  saw  the  Holy  City,  New  Jerusalem, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


coming  down  from  God  out  of  heaven,  prepared  as  a  bride  adorned  for  her 
husband. 

"And  I  heard  a  great  voice  out  of  heaven,  saying:  Behold  the  tabernacle 
of  God  is  with  man,  and  he  will  dwell  with  them,  and  they  shall  be  his  people, 
and  God  Himself  shall  be  with  them,  and  be  their  God. 

"And  God  shall  wipe  away  all  tears  from  their  eyes;  and  there  shall  be 
no  more  death,  neither  sorrow  nor  crying,  neither  shall  there  be  any  more  pain; 
for  the  former  things  are  passed  away." 

"And  the  Lord  shall  judge  among  the  nations,  and  shall  rebuke  many  people; 
and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares  and  their  spears  into  pruning 
hooks;  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall  they  learn 
war  any  more." 

With  this  glorious  vision  of  the  future,  to  which  we  look  forward, 
we  exhort  our  brethren  and 'sisters  to  put  their  houses  in  order,  that 
they  may  be  prepared  for  that  which  is  to  come. 

Refrain  from  evil ;  do  that  which  is  good.  Visit  the  sick,  comfort 
those  who  are  in  sorrow,  clothe  the  naked,  feed  the  hungry,  care  for 
the  widow  and  the  fatherless.  Observe  the  laws  of  health  which  the 
Lord  has  revealed,  and  keep  yourselves  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the 
world.  Pay  your  tithes  and  offerings,  and  the  Lord  will  open  the 
windows  of  heaven  and  pour  out  blessings  until  there  shall  not  be  room 
to  contain  them.  Be  obedient  to  the  laws  of  God  and  the  civil  laws 
of  the  country  in  which  you  reside,  and  uphold  and  honor  those  who 
are  chosen  to  administer  them. 

To  the  people  of  the  world  we  send  our  blessing,  and  bear  witness 
to  them  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  We  call  upon  all  men  to  come  unto  him,  that 
through  his  grace  they  may  attain  to  eternal  life  and  an  inheritance  with 
him  in  the  kingdom  of  his  Father. 

Heber  J.  Grant, 
Anthony  W .  linns, 
Charles  W .  Nibley, 

The  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

In  spite  of  my  efforts  at  self-control  I  have  been  overcome  with 
emotion  as  I  have  looked  upon  the  faces  of  this  large  congregation  of 
men,  with  a  few  women,  the  like  of  which,  so  far  as  we  are  aware,  has 
never  before  been  seen  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

CHANGES  WROUGHT  IN  LAST  CENTURY 

Looking  backward,  as  we  have  all  undoubtedly  done,  contemplating 
the  changes  which  have  come  to  the  world  since  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  one  hundred  years  ago,  the  absorbing  thought  which  has 
come  to  me  is  one  of  gratitude  because  of  the  fact  that  it  has  been  my 
destiny,  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  been  a  participant 
in  its  marvelous  activities. 

I  have  gone  back  over  the  long  and  winding  road,  which  the  people 
of  the  world  have  traveled  since  we  have  record  of  their  existence, 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  its  well  marked  sign-boards  which  tell  us  that  if  we  will  follow 
them  they  will  lead  us  back  to  the  presence  of  God  from  whence  we 
came,  but  from  which  we  have  strayed  and  gone  far  afield,  until  the 
road  has  brought  us  to  where  we  are  today. 

god's  directing  hand 

In  it  all  I  appear  to  see  the  hand  of  divinity  constantly  directing, 
and  hear  the  voice  of  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven  calling  us  back  to 
the  straight  road,  and  frequently,  unconsciously  to  them,  impressing  the 
minds  of  men,  impelling  them  resistlessly  onward  to  the  accomplishment 
of  a  divine  purpose,  the  redemption  of  the  human  family,  that  they 
may  achieve  eternal  life. 

"In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven  and  the  earth."  Of  the 
method  by  which  this  was  accomplished  we  have  little  knowledge; 
we  do  know,  however,  that  the  earth  was  created,  because  we  find 
ourselves  here  upon  it. 

And,  "God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the  image  of  God 
created  he  him,  male  and  female  created  he  them." 

And  he  gave  man  dominion  over  the  earth,  and  all  that  is  upon  it, 
and  commanded  him  to  subdue  the  earth,  and  make  it  fruitful.  He  made 
plain  the  fact  that  this  could  only  be  accomplished  by  effort,  by  the 
sweat  of  the  brow ;  that  being  endowed  with  reason  man  was  to  think, 
to  strive,  and  thus  find  out  truth  and  apply  it,  in  order  that  the  earth 
might  be  brought  under  subjection  to  his  will.  For  the  intelligence  and 
will  of  man  is  a  part  of  godliness  which  the  Father  has  bestowed  upon 
all  of  his  children,  and  will,  if  properly  applied  and  developed,  make 
man  like  unto  his  Creator. 

Of  the  antediluvian  people  who  occupied  the  earth  upon  which  we 
dwell  we  know  but  little.  Their  history,  covering  a  period  of  1,500  years, 
is  told  in  the  Bible  on  a  dozen  small  pages. 

Of  the  new  race  of  men  which  descended  from  Noah,  our  an- 
cestor, we  have  more  definite  information.  It  is  a  fact,  however,  that 
there  is  much  of  obscurity  and  doubt  surrounding  their  early  history. 

It  is  these  latter  people  that  I  have  followed  with  greater  interest, 
because  it  is  to  them  that  we  more  directly  trace  our  ancestry,  and  it 
was  with  them,  through  Abraham  our  father,  that  the  Lord  entered 
into  a  new  covenant  which  is  now  in  course  of  fulfilment. 

According  to  the  best  available  information  the  expansion  and  de- 
velopment of  the  sons  of  Noah  and  their  posterity  had  its  beginning 
along  the  upper  reaches  of  the  Euphrates  and  Tigris  rivers,  and  extended 
south  from  that  point  to  the  plains  of  Shiner,  in  Mesopotamia. 

We  are  told  that  Ham,  the  son  of  Noah,  begat  Cush  who  was  the 
father  of  Nimrod,  the  founder  of  Babylon,  which  became  the  greatest 
city  of  its  time,  while  Asshur,  the  son  of  Shem,  established  his  people 
on  the  Tigris,  and  built  the  city  of  Nineveh. 

Egypt  was  occupied  by  the  descendants  of  Ham,  through  Pharaoh, 
the  son  of  Egyptus,  who  was  the  daughter  of  Ham. 

Assyria,  the  Asshur  of  the  Hebrews,  of  which  Nineveh  was  the 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


15 


principal  city ;  Chaldea,  of  which  Babylon  was  the  capitol ;  and  Egypt, 
among  the  earliest  nations  of  which  we  have  record,  are  all  closely  as- 
sociated with  the  Israelitish  people,  each  having  exercised  a  powerful 
influence  upon  their  character  and  history. 

It  was  from  Chaldea  that  the  Lord  called  Abraham,  and  entered 
into  covenant  with  him  in  which  he  promised  that  he  would  make  of 
him  a  people,  by  comparison  as  numerous  as  the  stars  of  heaven,  or 
the  grains  of  sand  upon  the  seashore.  Abraham  was  at  the  time  a  child- 
less man,  one  hundred  years  of  age. 

COVENANT  WITH  ABRAHAM 

To  properly  comprehend  the  occurrences  of  the  past  century  one 
must  be  familiar  with  the  covenant  entered  into  by  the  Lord  with  Abra- 
ham and  the  history  of  the  Israelitish  people  from  that  time  until  the 
present.  The  Lord  declared  that  covenant  to  be  eternal,  everlasting, 
which  means  that  it  would  not  end  until  the  promises  made  had  been 
realized.  In  part  the  covenant  declared  that  through  Abraham  and  his 
seed  all  nations  of  the  world  should  be  blessed. 

It  is  through  the  descendants  of  Abraham  that  the  Holy  Bible  has 
come  down  to  us,  the  book  which  has  done  more  to  civilize  and  stabil- 
ize the  world  than  all  others  which  have  been  published.  It  has  given 
to  us  the  fundamentals  of  our  system  of  government  and  the  laws  under 
which  its  affairs  are  administered.  From  the  family  of  Abraham  the 
Lord  has  raised  up  his  ancient  and  modern  prophets,  and  most  important 
of  all,  Jesus  Christ,  his  Only  Begotten  Son,  through  whom  redemption 
from  death  and  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  our  Father  is  made  possible 
to  mankind.  What  have  we  that  is  of  indispensable  value  to  humanity 
which  has  not  come  to  us  through  the  Israelitish  race? 

During  the  past  weeks  I  have  been  thinking  of  these  things  and 
associating  them  with  the  secular  history  of  the  world.  By  this  method 
alone  am  I  able  to  reach  satisfactory  conclusions  regarding  the  contents 
and  meaning  of  the  scripture,  and  my  studies  justify  the  statement 
which  I  now  make :  In  Abraham  and  his  seed  all  nations  of  the  earth 
have  been  blessed. 

With  the  birth  of  Jacob  the  Israelitish  race  had  its  real  beginning. 
Jacob  who  was  first  called  Israel ;  Jacob  who  was  the  father  of  twelve 
sons,  and  to  whom  the  promises  made  to  his  grandfather,  Abraham, 
were  reconfirmed,  and  greatly  enlarged.  In  order  that  I  may  be  properly 
understood,  permit  me  to  make  this  brief  observation : 

THE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHOSEN  RACE 

It  has  become  common  usage  to  associate  the  word  Israel  with  the 
Jewish  people  only,  which  is  a  great  error.  While  it  is  true  that  all 
Jewish  people  are  Israelites,  it  is  equally  true  that  there  are  Israelitish 
people  that  are  not  Jews. 

Judah,  with  whom  the  tribe  of  Benjamin  united,  was  but  one 
of  the  twelve  tribes  at  the  time  when  ten  of  these  tribes  revolted  during 
the  reign  of  Rehoboam,  the  son  of  Solomon,  and  under  Jeroboam,  the 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


son  of  Nebat,  established  an  independent  kingdom,  with  their  capital 
city  at  Samaria,  in  northern  Palestine. 

I  have  gone  with  Jacob  and  his  sons  into  Egypt,  been  with  them  in 
their  prosperity  in  the  land  of  Goshen,  while  Egypt  was  under  control 
of  the  Hyksos,  or  Shepherd  Kings,  their  own  kinsmen,  and  in  their 
distress  and  servitude  after  the  native  princes  of  Egypt  came  down 
the  Nile,  defeated  and  drove  out  the  Hyksos,  and  repossessed  their 
native  land. 

I  have  followed  them  in  their  exodus  from  Egypt  under  the  great 
prophet  Moses,  and  in  their  forty  years  sojourn  in  the  wilderness.  I 
have  been  with  them  in  the  conquest  of  the  promised  land,  in  their 
final  ascendancy  to  a  great  kingdom  under  David,  and  rejoiced  with 
them  during  the  peaceful  reign  of  King  Solomon,  when  Israel  realized 
her  golden  age. 

In  sorrow  I  have  seen  the  return  of  this  chosen  people  from  the 
worship  of  the  God  of  their  fathers  to  the  worship  of  idols,  which 
brought  dissolution  and  final  subjugation  by  surrounding  nations.  I 
have  seen  the  Ten  Tribes  carried  away  captive  by  the  Assyrians,  while 
Judah  suffered  the  same  fate  at  the  hands  of  the  Babylonians,  and 
was  later  scattered  by  pagan  Rome  to  the  four  corners  of  the  earth. 

To  one  who  does  not  understand  it  may  appear  that  the  promise 
made  by  the  Lord  had  failed.  Israel  had  possessed  the  promised  land 
as  he  had  said  that  they  should,  but  through  transgression  had  lost  their 
heritage  to  other  nations,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  the  Lord  had 
declared  that  heritage  to  be  eternal. 

Has  the  promise  made  to  Abraham  failed?  Are  the  Ten  Tribes 
of  Israel  lost  to  the  world  forever  ?  Is  Judah  to  be  forever  a  wanderer 
without  a  country  which  he  can  call  his  own?    Emphatically,  no. 

"Hear  the  word  of  the  Lord,  O  ye  nations,  and  declare  it  in  the  isles  afar 

off,  and  say,  He  that  scattered  Israel  will  gather  him,  and  keep  him,  as  a 
shepherd  does  his  flock. 

"For  thus  sayeth  the  Lord :  Behold  I  will  bring  them  from  the  north 
country,  and  gather  them  from  the  coast  of  the  earth,  and  with  them  the  blind 
and  the  lame,  the  woman  with  child,  and  her  that  travaileth  with  child  together : 
a  great  company  shall  return  thither. 

"They  shall  come  with  weeping,  and  with  supplications  will  I  lead  them.  *  * 
For  I  am  a  father  to  Israel,  and  Ephraim  is  my  first  born." 

Thus  has  the  Lord  spoken  through  his  chosen  prophets,  and  his 
word  will  not  fail. 

Centuries  before,  while  the  Israelitish  people  were  still  in  possession 
of  the  promised  land,  the  Lord  through  his  prophets  had  predicted  their 
downfall,  that  they  would  be  scattered  among  all  nations,  but  would 
ultimately  be  gathered  and  restored  to  their  promised  heritage.  The  time 
for  the  realization  of  this  latter  promise  is  near  at  hand. 

Babylon,  at  the  time  of  the  Jewish  captivity,  was  referred  to  by 
Daniel  the  prophet  as  having  dominion  over  all  the  earth.  Nebuchad- 
nezzar its  king  was  called  the  King  of  Kings.  The  kingdom  was 
thought  to  be  so  strong  that  it  would  never  be  overthrown.  The  Lord, 
however,  had  long  before  decreed  its  fall,  and  his  prophets  had  declared 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


17 


that  Babylon  should  become  as  Sodom  and  Gomorrah  and  that  it  should 
never  be  rebuilt  or  inhabited  again. 

The  opening  scene  of  the  great  drama  which  was  to  bring  to  pass 
the  redemption  of  the  house  of  Israel  occurred  when  the  Medo- 
Persian  army,  under  Cyrus,  effected  the  conquest  of  Babylonia,  during 
the  reign  of  Belshazzar,  the  son  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  and  established  the 
powerful  Medo-Persian  kingdom  in  its  stead. 

I  have  been  with  Alexander  of  Macedon  as  he  crossed  the  Hellespont 
from  Greece,  and  with  his  comparatively  small  army  fought  the  battles 
of  Granicus,  Issus  and  Arbela  where  he  utterly  destroyed  the  great 
Medo-Persian  army  which  Darius  had  collected,  and  established  himself 
as  master  of  Asia  from  the  Mediterranean  sea  to  the  mouth  of  the 
Nile,  a  country  fifty  times  larger  in  area  and  population  than  his  own. 

I  have  been  with  the  Roman  legions  as  they  swept  through  Asia, 
destroying  the  smaller  kingdoms  which  Alexander  had  set  up,  and  in 
their  campaign  in  northern  Europe,  which  made  them  masters  of  the 
then  known  world. 

I  have  been  with  Mark  Anthony  and  Octavius  at  Actium,  where 
they  struggled  for  the  mastery  of  Rome,  and  have  seen  that  mighty 
empire  crumble  and  fall. 

These  have  all  been  turning  points  in  the  affairs  of  the  world,  which 
have  entirely  changed  what  might  otherwise  have  been  its  history.  It 
was  not  the  will  of  the  Lord  that  despotic  rule  should  be  permanently 
established  and  maintained  upon  the  earth.  This  was  proven  in  modern 
times  when  Napoleon  met  his  Waterloo,  and  in  our  own  day  when 
ambition  prompted  a  crowned  head  in  Europe  to  seek  the  establishment 
of  world  dominion. 

In  all  of  this  I  have  seen  the  finger  of  the  Lord  pointing  to  a  time 
when:  The  God  of  heaven  will  set  up  a  kingdom  which  shall  never 
be  destroyed,  or  given  to  other  people,  but  will  stand  forever ;  when  he 
will  establish  peace  upon  earth  and  good  will  among  men ;  when  nation 
shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall  they  learn  war 
any  more. 

A  CHOICE  LAND 

Oh,  my  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I  beseech  you  to  study  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  as  it  is  contained  in  holy  writ.  You  will  then  know 
that  the  present  is  inextricably  associated  with  the  remote  past  to  which 
I  have  referred  as  it  is  to  the  future  which  is  before  us.  You  will 
know  that  you  have  been  given  a  land  which  is  choice  above  all  others. 
You  will  discover  that  the  ancient  prophets  saw  this  land  of  America, 
and  declared  its  destiny.  You  will  know  the  conditions  upon  which  our 
nation  is  to  be  perpetuated,  or,  on  the  other  hand,  because  of  our  lack 
of  faith  in  God,  take  its  place  among  those  mighty  nations  to  which  I 
have  referred  and  pass  into  oblivion. 

Where  much  is  given  much  is  required.  This  is  the  land  of 
Joseph,  it  is  the  land  of  Zion,  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands.  The 
Lord  our  God  has  decreed  that  whatsoever  nation  shall  inhabit  it  shall 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  free  from  bondage,  free  from  all  other  nations,  if  they  will  but 
serve  the  God  of  the  land,  which  is  Jesus  Christ.  These  are  not  my 
words,  but  the  words  of  the  Lord,  our  God.  They  are  binding  upon  us, 
as  they  have  been  binding  upon  other  great  nations  which  have  occupied 
the  American  continent  in  times  past.  They  imply  more  than  a  tacit  or 
perfunctory  profession  of  faith  in  Christ  our  Lord.  We  are  to  render 
service  to  him. 

TRUE  SERVICE 

When  asked  what  the  word  service  implied  the  Redeemer  answered  : 
"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart.  Thou  shalt  do 
no  murder.  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery.  Thou  shalt  not  steal. 
Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness.  Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother, 
and  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  Simple  requirements  embodying  the 
fundamentals  of  perfect  Christian  life. 

If  we  love  the  Lord  it  will  be  a  pleasure  to  serve  him.  We  could 
not,  if  we  love  him,  be  guilty  of  murder.  The  fact  that  murder  is  of 
almost  daily  occurrence  is  evidence  that  this  great  commandment  is 
not  properly  observed.  Next  to  murder  the  Lord  has  declared  that 
the  contamination  of  the  fountains  of  life  through  the  promiscuous 
intercourse  of  sexes  is  an  abomination  in  his  sight. 

STANDARDS  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  stands  irrevocably 
committed  to  the  observance  of  sexual  purity.  It  recognizes  no  double 
standard  of  morality.  It  demands  the  same  standard  of  virtue  from 
its  men  that  it  does  from  its  women  members,  and  recognizes  no  circum- 
stance or  condition  which  justifies  sexual  association  except  in  virtuous 
and  legal  wedlock.  This  the  Church  recognizes  to  be  not  only  approved 
of  the  Lord  but  in  direct  compliance  with  his  command. 

KEEPING  THE  LAWS  OF  GOD  AND  OF  COUNTRY 
"Thou  shalt  not  steal." 

Any  person  who  knowingly  deprives  another  of  that  which  right- 
fully belongs  to  him,  without  giving  value  received  for  it,  is  guilty  of 
theft,  no  matter  what  the  process  may  be  by  which  the  transaction  is 
made. 

"Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness." 

The  frequency  with  which  this  commandment  is  disregarded  by 
men  and  women  who  appear  in  our  courts  under  oath  to  tell  the  truth,  is 
evidence  of  needed  reform. 

If  we  would  only  put  into  practice  these  simple  requirements,  and 
we  could  do  so  if  we  would,  what  a  glorious  place  this  world  of  ours 
would  be  in  which  to  live. 

You  may  ask — Why  call  attention  to  these  conditions  while  you 
provide  no  remedy  for  them  ?  The  remedy  is  simple,  and  can  be  made 
effective. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


19 


Paraphrasing  the  words  of  Abraham  Lincoln :  Let  every  member 
of  the  Church,  from  its  president,  its  priest  or  pastor,  to  the  humblest 
member,  and  every  citizen  of  the  United  States  of  America,  from  the 
highest  elective  or  appointive  officer,  to  the  humblest  citizen,  here  and 
now  highly  resolve  that  the  faith  in  God  manifested  by  our  fathers, 
who  bequeathed  to  us  the  priceless  heritage  of  liberty  which  we  now 
enjoy  in  this  chosen  land,  shall  not  perish  from  the  earth,  but  endure 
forever.    This  done  we  are  secure,  without  it  we  have  no  guarantee. 

I  am  not  prophesying  evil  of  my  country.  I  love  it.  I  love  its 
people,  and  believe  in  them.  I  do  not  believe  that  they  will  carelessly  sur- 
render the  God-given  principles  of  liberty  and  justice  bequeathed  to  them 
into  the  hands  of  aliens  who  would  trample  them  under  foot,  and 
turn  back  the  wheels  of  human  progress  to  the  dark  ages,  from  the 
ignorance  and  bigotry  of  which  we  have  been  rescued  by  the  hand  of 
the  God  of  our  fathers. 

I  know  that  there  are  those  who  will  not  agree  with  me  in  my 
conclusions.  Neither  have  they  believed  the  words  of  those  who  have 
taught  these  things  in  the  past. 

MORONI'S  WORDS  APPLICABLE  NOW 

When  the  Lord  commanded  Moroni  to  write  the  things  which  are 
contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  is  the  sacred  record  -of  the 
hand-dealings  of  the  Lord  with  the  Nephite  people,  Moroni  said : 

"Lord,  the  Gentiles  will  mock  at  these  things." 

The  reply  was: 

"Fools  mock,  but  they  shall  mourn,  and  my  grace  is  sufficient  for  the  meek, 
that  they  shall  take  no  advantage  of  your  weakness." 

I  can  think  of  no  words  of  conclusion  more  appropriate  than  the 
words  of  this  chosen  prophet  of  the  Lord : 

"And  now  I  speak  unto  all  the  ends  of  the  earth — that  if  the  day  cometh  that 
the  power  and  gifts  of  God  shall  be  done  away  among  you,  it  shall  be  because 
of  unbelief. 

"And  wo  be  unto  the  children  of  men  if  this  shall  be  the  case.  *  *  * 
"And  I  exhort  you  to  remember  these  things ;  for  the  time  speedily  cometh 
that  ye  shall  know  that  I  lie  not,  for  ye  shall  see  me  at  the  bar  of  God,  and 
the  Lord  will  say  unto  you :  Did  I  not  declare  my  words  unto  you,  which  were 
written  by  this  man,  like  as  one  crying  from  the  dead,  yea,  as  one  speaking 
out  of  the  dust?    *   *  * 

"And  again  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  come  unto  Christ,  and  lay 
hold  upon  every  good  gift,  and  touch  not  the  evil  gift,  nor  the  unclean  thing." 

These  last  words  of  Moroni  I  commend  to  you  for  your  consider- 
ation, my  brethren  and  sisters. 

BLESSINGS  UPON  ALL  WHO  SEEK  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  upon  you.  May  his  protecting 
hand  be  over  you,  and  the  guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  direct  you  and 
abide  with  you  and  all  who  seek  to  establish  righteousness  and  justice 
upon  the  earth;  that  God's  ikingdom  may  be  established  and  his  will 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


be  done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven.  This  is  my  humble  prayer,  any 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  your  behalf  and  in  behalf  of  all  the  world. 
Amen. 

The  choir  rendered  the  anthem,  "Hosanna !  Hallelujah !"  words 
and  music  written  by  Evan  Stephens  for  this  occasion : 


Hosanna,  Hallelujah ! 
With  heart  and  voice  uniting, 
Hosanna,  hallelujah, 
In  joyous  accord, 
We  sing  to  the  Lord, 
Hosanna,  hallelujah, 
We  sing  to  the  Lord. 
Hosanna,  Hallelujah,  Amen. 

Sing,  O  ye  ransom'd, 

Ye  ransom'd  of  the  Lord, 

Ye  who  the  Gospel  received  and  kept  his  word, 

Yea,  ye  pure  in  heart  rejoice, 

Ye  who  know  the  Shepherd's  voice. 

Sing,  O  sing  ye  with  joyful  heart  and  voice. 

Sing  ye  with  gladness, 

With  gladness  and  rejoice. 


President  Grant  announced  that  he  would  present  to  the  congrega- 
tion the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  and  that  they  would  be 
voted  upon  by  the  various  orders  of  the  priesthood  separately  and  also 
by  the  entire  assembly. 

The  President  then  read  the  list  of  General  Authorities  as  follows: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nibley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 
Reed  Smoot 
George  Albert  Smith 
George  F.  Richards 
Orson  F.  Whitney 
David  O.  McKay 


James  E.  Talmage 
Stephen  L.  Richards 
Richard  R.  Lyman 
Melvin  J.  Ballard 
John  A.  Widtsoe 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


21 


PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Charles  H.  Hart 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rey  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  order  of  voting  was  by  groups  as  follows : 
First — The  First  Presidency. 

Second — The  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  the  Presiding  Patriarch. 

Third — The  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

Fourth — The  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Fifth— High  Priests. 

Sixth — Seventies. 

Seventh — Elders. 

Eighth — Aaronic  Priesthood  (Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons). 
Ninth — -The  entire  assembly. 

As  each  group  arose,  in  response  to  the  request  of  President  Grant, 
they  were  asked  by  him :  "Do  you  sustain  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church  whose  names  have  just  been  read,  in  the  positions  mentioned? 
If  so,  raise  your  right  hands."  In  each  instance,  following  the  response, 
an  opportunity  was  given  for  any  who  cared  to  vote  in  the  negative 
to  do  so. 

The  voting  throughout  was  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


Immediately  following  the  sustaining  of  the  General  Authorities, 
the  entire  assembly  arose  to  their  feet,  and  under  the  leadership  of 
President  Heber  J.  Grant,  gave  the  Hosanna  Shout,  waving  their 
handkerchiefs  while  doing  so. 

The  words  of  the  Shout  are  as  follows : 

Hosanna !    Hosanna !   Hosanna ! 
To  God  and  the  Lamb 
Amen,  amen,  and  amen. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Hosanna !    Hosanna !    Hosanna ! 
To  God  and  the  Lamb 
Amen,  amen,  and  amen. 

Hosanna !    Hosanna !    Hosanna ! 
To  God  and  the  Lamb 
Amen,  amen,  and  amen. 

The  waving  of  the  white  handkerchiefs  in  almost  perfect  unison 
and  the  shouting  of  praises  to  God  and  the  Lamb  by  the  thousands 
of  people  assembled  in  the  great  tabernacle,  was  perhaps  the  most 
thrilling  and  impressive  religious  solemnity  that  those  present  had  ever 
witnessed. 

The  congregation  then  arose  and  sang  the  first  and  last  verses 
of  "America." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  received  many  telegrams  of  congratulation  on  this  oc- 
casion, but  we  shall  not  attempt  to  read  any  of  them  this  morning. 

PREDECESSORS  GREAT  AND  GOOD  MEN 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot,  although  a  very  weak,  humble  instrument  in 
the  hands  of  the  Lord,  to  succeed  the  wonderful  men  who  have  presided 
over  this  Church — the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  than  whom  no  greater 
man  I  believe  has  ever  graced  the  earth;  that  marvelous  pioneer,  Brig- 
ham  Young ;  that  mighty  champion  of  liberty,  John  Taylor ;  that 
exceptional  converter  of  men  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  Wilford 
Woodruff;  Lorenzo  Snow,  an  extraordinary  man  at  eighty-five  years 
of  age,  who  in  three  years  lifted  the  Church  from  the  slough  of 
despond  financially  to  a  place  of  financial  standing;  and  that  man, 
beloved  by  all  who  knew  him,  one  of  the  outstanding  men  of  all  the 
world,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  greatest  preacher  of  righteousness  I  have  ' 
ever  known. 

BLESSINGS   PRONOUNCED   UPON   GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

It  is  my  right  and  privilege  as  the  President  of  this  Church  to 
extend  a  blessing  to  the  people,  and  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  I  bless 
my  counselors  for  their  devotion  to  me  and  to  the  Church.  I  remember 
with  gratitude  my  counselors  who  have  passed  away.  I  rejoice  in  the 
wonderful  labors  and  the  devotion  of  each  and  every  one  of  the  men 
who  are  members  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  also  the 
Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church.  I  pray  God  to  bless  them  for  their 
integrity  and  their  devotion,  for  their  labors  at  home  and  abroad  among 
the  people. 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  Seven  Presidents  of  the  Seventy,  the  men 
who  stand  at  the  head  of  that  great  body  of  priesthood,  whose  duty 
and  obligation  it  is  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


23 


I  pray  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of 
the  Church,  who  preside  over  all  the  Lesser  Priesthood — the  Priests, 
Teachers  and  Deacons  of  the  Church. 

BLESSES  BRETHREN  OF  PRIESTHOOD 

I  pray. God  to  bless  this  wonderful  gathering  of  High  Priests, 
such  a  gathering  as  I  am  sure  cannot  be  found  in  any  other  part 
of  the  wide  world.  I  pray  God  to  bless  the  Seventies,  and  the  Elders. 
I  pray  that  he  may  bless  all  the  members  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood; 
that  he  may  richly  pour  out  his  blessing  upon  them  in  their  youth,  that 
there  may  be  planted  in  their  hearts  a  love  of  God  and  a  desire  to 
serve  him  as  they  grow  to  manhood ;  that  they  may  feel  to  walk  in  the 
footsteps  of  their  faithful  parents.  All  of  us  who  have  been  born  in  the 
Church,  almost  without  exception,  have  been  born  of  parents  who  have 
given  their  lives  and  the  best  that  is  in  them  for  the  work  of  God. 

One  of  the  most  earnest  prayers  of  my  heart  all  my  life  has  been 
that  I  should  be  able  to  live  to  be  worthy  of  such  a  father  and  such 
a  mother  as  were  given  to  me. 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  attend  all  of  the  general 
officers  of  our  Church,  all  of  whom  are  devoted  to  this  work. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  RELIEF  SOCIETY  ORGANIZATION 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  the  officers  and  the 
General  Board  of  the  Relief  Society.  My  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude 
and  thanksgiving  to  God  for  the  organization,  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  of  that  wonderful  society. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  my  association  with  Eliza  R.  Snowf  Zina 
D.  Young,  Sarah  M.  Kimball,  Aunt  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  Bathsheba 
W.  Smith,  Clarissa  S.  Williams  and  Sister  Robison,  who  have  stood 
as  officers  of  the  Relief  Society.  I  am  thankful  indeed  for  what  they 
have  accomplished,  for  their  wonderful  work  and  example,  and  I 
pray  God's  choicest  blessings  upon  them. 

DEVOTION  AND  SACRIFICE  OF  THE  MOTHERS 

It  is  our  sisters  who  carry  the  burden  of  the  work.  We  talk 
about  the  missionary  work  of  the  Elders  who  go  forth  to  proclaim  the 
Gospel;  we  talk  about  the  great  pioneer  work  of  the  early  settlers  of 
this  country,  but  I  wish  to  say  here  that  it  is  the  mothers  at  home  who 
are  making  the  sacrifice  for  the  boys  to  go  into  the  mission  field.  It 
is  the  mothers  who  stand  the  hardships  far  more  than  the  men.  Men 
are  engaged  in  many  activities,  and  without  the  devotion  and  absolute 
testimony  of  the  living  God  in  the  hearts  of  our  mothers  this  Church 
would  die.  May  God  bless  the  mothers  of  men,  is  my  most  humble 
prayer;  and  I  do  bless  them  in  the  name  of  God  our  Heavenly  Father 
and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer. 

INVOKES  BLESSINGS  UPON  AUXILIARY  WORKERS 

I  pray  for  the  same  blessing  upon  the  officers  of  the  General 


* 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Board  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  and 
upon  the  Primary  Association,  the  Sunday  Schools  and  the  Young 
Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association.  I  also  pray  for  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  those  devoted  workers  in  the  Genealogical  Society. 
It  is  wonderful  what  is  being  accomplished  in  the  temples  through  the 
energy  of  these  people  who  are  working  along  that  line. 

BLESSINGS  INVOKED  UPON  THE  CHOIRS 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  our  choir  and  its  officers, 
and  upon  the  music  committee.  I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
upon  the  choirs  throughout  the  Church.  There  are  no  other  people 
in  the  world  in  proportion  to  their  numbers  who  have  so  many  who  pray 
to  the  Lord  in  beautiful  songs. 

PRESIDENTS  OF  MISSIONS  ACCOMPLISHING  MARVELOUS  WORK 

God  bless  the  Presidents  of  Missions,  one  and  all.  They  are 
marvelous  men,  those  who  are  active  today  and  those  who  have  served 
in  the  past.  It  is  pleasing  to  contemplate  the  love  and  the  confidence 
they  have  inspired  and  the  inspiration  that  they  have  given  to  those  over 
whom  they  preside. 

PRESIDENCIES  OF  STAKES  AND  BISHOPRICS  OF  WARDS 

I  pray  God  to  bless  the  wonderful  men  who  have  given  so  much  of 
their  time  as  Presidencies  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  Many  of  the  men 
occupying  these  positions  give  nearly  as  much  time  to  their  Church  work 
as  they  do  to  their  ordinary  affairs  in  life. 

I  pray  for  that  same  blessing  upon  the  wonderful  men  who  are 
Bishops  and  Bishops'  Counselors.  I  ask  for  the  blessing  of  the  Lord 
upon  those  who  preside  over  the  quorums  of  priesthood  throughout 
the  Church. 

THE  MISIONARIES  AND  THEIR  ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  be  abundantly  with  those 
who  have  been  sent  forth  to  proclaim  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
to  lift  up  their  voices  in  testimony  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Savior  of  mankind,  and  to  bear 
witness  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living 
God,  inspired  of  God  to  restore  again  to  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation. 

Oh,  how  my  heart  goes  out  to  those  young  men  and  young  women 
who  go  forth  with  this  testimony  burning  in  their  very  hearts  for  the 
spread  of  the  truth.  And  I  thank  God  that  they  have  brought  honest 
souls  from  all  over  the  wide  world,  from  every  denomination  under 
heaven,  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  May  God  bless  them  and  bless 
their  parents  who  are  making  sacrifices  to  send  them  forth  to  proclaim 
the  Gospel.  Oh,  how  I  do  rejoice  that  I  do  not  know  of  one  son  or 
one  daughter  in  all  Israel  who  has  gone  out  into  the  world  to  proclaim 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


25 


the  truth,  that  has  come  home  to  announce  the  truth  is  in  some 
other  land.  Thank  God  for  the  truth  and  the  power  that  goes  with 
these  young  men  and  young  women  as  they  go  forth  to  proclaim  the 
restoration  again  to  the  earth  of  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  that  you  and  I  have  received. 

PRAYER  FOR  AND  APPRECIATION  OF  PATRIARCHS 

God  bless  the  Patriarchs.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  Patriarch  Perkins, 
a  noble  man  in  St.  George,  who  gave  me  a  patriarchal  blessing  as  a 
little  child,  foretelling  my  life  in  one  small  page  of  longhand  writing, 
which  has  been  fulfilled  to  the  very  letter.  I  thank  God  for  John 
Rowberry,  who  gave  me  a  blessing  to  the  effect  that  I  should  be  taken 
from  Tooele  and  be  made  one  of  the  leading  officials  of  this  Church; 
and  who  promised  Francis  M .  Lyman  that  his  name  should  be  chronicled 
among  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  these  last  days.  God 
bless  our  Patriarchs  and  inspire  them  in  their  splendid  work. 

A  PRAYER  FOR  THE  PRESIDENT  OF  THE  UNITED  STATES 

I  echo  the  prayer  that  was  offered  in  the  opening  of  this  meeting, 
that  God  will  bless  the  President  of  the  United  States  and  his  cabinet, 
and  all  the  officers  of  our  great  country.  How  I  do  rejoice  in  that 
'statement  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  the  effect  that  this  is 
a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands  and  that  no  king  shall  reign  here. 
Let  us  be  true  and  loyal  to  this  land  of  liberty.  In  no  land  in  all  the 
wide  world  could  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  have  been  established 
except  in  this  beloved  America  of  ours. 

BLESSES  GREAT  BRITAIN  AND  OTHER  NATIONS 

God  bless  that  liberty-loving  country,  Great  Britain.  May  he  bless 
Canada,  our  neighbor  on  the  north,  which  is  like  one  of  our  own  family. 
May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  attend  our  people  on  the  south,  in 
Mexico,  who  are  struggling  for  their  rights  and  their  liberty.  May 
peace  dwell  in  that  land. 

BLESSINGS  INVOKED  UPON  HONEST-HEARTED  EVERYWHERE 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  Almighty  God  may  be  and  abide  with 
all  the  members  of  this  Church,  every  faithful,  diligent  Latter-day 
Saint.  May  we  be  able  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
by  the  honesty,  the  uprightness  and  the  truthfulness  of  our  lives.  If  we 
do  this,  then  we  are  sure  of  a  final  triumph. 

I  rejoice  in  all  that  we  have  heard  here  today.  I  rejoice  and  I 
am  sure  that  the  Prophet  and  the  Patriarch  of  the  living  God  who 
sealed  their  testimonies  with  their  blood  will  rejoice  at  this  wonderful 
gathering.  Oh,  how  I  did  pray,  how  I  did  supplicate  the  Lord,  that 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  the  son  of  the  martyred  Patriarch,  might  live  to 
occupy  today  this  position  that  I  am  occupying.  Never  until  the 
night  before  he  passed  away  did  I  give  up  the  hope  that  he  should 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  that  privilege.  But  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  without  my  seeking 
to  occupy  this  position.  By  that  spirit  of  blessing  which  he  possessed, 
I  bless  you  one  and  all,  and  all  Israel,  and  every  honest-hearted  soul 
in  all  the  world  who  is  trying  to  do  good,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  by  the 
authority  of  the  living  God,  the  priesthood  that  I  hold.  Amen. 

The  choir  rendered  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  from  the  oratorio 
"The  Messiah." 

Elder  Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  President  of  the  Logan  Temple,  offered 
the  closing  prayer,  and  the  Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  was  resumed  at  2  o'clock  with  President  Grant  pre- 
siding. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  Prof.  Anthony  C.  Lund. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  man 
who  communed  with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  President  of  the  Alberta  Temple,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  hymn,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning,"  was  then 
sung  by  the  choir  and  congregation. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

In  looking  over  this  vast  congregation,  composed  largely  of  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church, — this  greatest  of  all  gatherings — my  soul  is 
subdued  and  I  feel  my  own  weakness,  my  own  inability.  Nevertheless, 
I  am  proud  indeed  to  be  numbered  among  you,  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  feel  it  a  distinct  honor  to  be 
able  to  assist  in  some  small  degree  in  the  furtherance  of  this  great  work. 

THE  SIXTH  DAY  OF  APRIL 

I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  (I  think  Brother  Wood  mentioned 
it  in  his  prayer)  to  this  beautiful  Sabbath  day,  this  sixth  day  of  April, 
nineteen  hundred  and  thirty.  Where  would  you  go  in  all  the  world  to 
find  a  more  perfect  day  than  this?  The  Lord,  by  his  overruling  provi- 
dence, has  given  it  to  us,  and  all  thanks  and  honor  and  praise  be  given 
to  him. 

A  wonderful  day,  the  sixth  day  of  April!  Many  notable  things 
have  occurred  on  it.  The  organization  of  the  Church  for  one  great 
and  notable  thing.  The  Prophet  Joseph  recites  in  his  own  story  that 
it  was  early  in  the  spring  of  1820,  one  hundred  and  ten  years  ago,  when 
he  went  into  the  woods  to  pray.  I  like  to  think  of  that  also  as  being  on 
the  sixth  day  of  April.    We  have  no  definite  knowledge  of  it,  but  I 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  27 


believe  it  in  my  heart  and  in  my  soul.  And  while  I  have  no  warrant  in 
revelation  for  so  stating,  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  that  the 
sixth  day  of  April  was  the  birthday  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior 
and  Redeemer.  Certain  it  is  that  the  New  Testament  tells  us  that  the 
shepherds  were  tending  their  flocks  on  the  hills  /of  Judea  when  the 
glory  of  the  Lord  fell  upon  them.  More  likely  was  it  in  the  spring  of 
the  year  than  on  the  twenty-fifth  day  of  December,  which  is  celebrated 
as  the  birthday  of  the  Savior ;  yet  we  go  on  celebrating  that  day,  and  it 
is  all  right  to  do  so,  inasmuch  as  that  is  the  day  the  world  generally  ac- 
cepts. But  I  repeat  it  is  my  individual  opinion,  firmly  fixed  in  my  mind, 
that  the  sixth  day  of  April  is  the  birthday  of  the  Savior  of  the  world. 
I  further  like  to  believe  that  the  resurrection  of  the  Redeemer,  which 
marked  his  triumph  over  death  and  the  grave,  also  occurred  'on  the 
sixth  day  of  April,  though  I  have  no  definite  proof. 

Another  notable  event  that  occurred  on  this  day  is  part  of  the  his- 
tory of  this  glorious  country  of  ours — the  United  States  of  America. 
The  Lord  says  in  the  revelations  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  he  raised  up  wise  men  for  the  very  purpose  of  framing  the 
Constitution,  which  guarantees  liberty  to  all.  It  was  born  on  the  sixth 
day  of  April.  It  had  previously  been  adopted  by  the  Constitutional 
Convention  and  submitted  to  the  various  States  for  ratification.  While 
it  was  intended  that  the  returns  should  all  be  in  by  the  fourth  of  March, 
it  was  not  until  the  sixth  day  of  April  that  the  electoral  votes  of  the 
different  States  were  counted  by  the  Senate  and  House  then  in  session. 
And  on  the  sixth  day  of  April  George  Washington  was  declared  to  be  the 
President  of  the  United  States.  So  the  nation  had  its  real  birth  at  that 
time. 

Another  thing  that  happened  on  the  sixth  day  of  April:  Our 
nation,  in  1917,  declared  war  on  Germany,  and  with  all  its  heart  and 
soul  it  went  into  that  war.  What  for?  To  fight  for  liberty,  to  fight 
against  the  principle  of  force,  which  is  Satan's  principle,  which  prin- 
ciple is  championed  wherever  Satan  rules.  This  nation  in  a  short  time, 
with  two  million  men  overseas,  and  with  two  million  more  under  arms 
in  training,  helped  to  settle  the  matter;  and  thus  victory  was  achieved 
through  the  action  of  our  government,  which  government  has  always 
stood  for  liberty  and  for  the  blessing  of  mankind. 

I  say  again  that  it  is  my  individual  opinion — we  have  no  revela- 
tion for  it — that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  his  first  manifesta- 
tion on  the  sixth  day  of  April. :  It  was  the  greatest  vision  ever  given  to 
mortal  man ;  for  both  the  Father  and  the  Son  plainly  manifested  them- 
selves before  his  eyes  and  spoke  to  him.  I  believe  that  that  was  on  the 
sixth  day  of  April,  and  I  believe,  although  I  have  no  warrant  in  revela- 
tion for  it,  that  the  sixth  day  of  April  is  the  birthday  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ. 

THE  MOST  OUTSTANDING  ACCOMPLISHMENT 

Now,  looking  back  over  the  one  hundred  years  that  have  passed,  I 
have  tried  in  my  mind  to  think  what  is  the  most  outstanding  work  that 
has  been  accomplished,    Of  course  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  know  that 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  spiritual  force,  the  power  of  the  priesthood  that  is  with  this  work 
and  in  this  work,  is  greater  than  the  temporal.  But  men  who  have  not 
been  touched  with  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  cannot  see  the  king- 
dom of  .God.  Like  Nicodemus  they  cannot  comprehend  it.  They  have 
not  taken  advantage  of  the  means  of  entering  it.  But  temporal  things 
they  can  see  and  understand ;  and  to  my  way  of  thinking,  the  great  out- 
standing, beneficent,  splendid  work  that  has  been  accomplished  by  this 
Church  in  the  last  one  hundred  years  has  been  the  gathering  of  the 
poor,  not  the  rich,  for  we  have  had  scarcely  any  rich  among  us.  One 
in  a  hundred  was  possibly  well-to-do  when  gathered,  but  I  should  say 
not  more  than  that.  The  poor  have  had  the  Gospel  preached  to  them, 
and  the  poor  have  been  gathered  to  Zion.  Gathered  to  Kirtland,  Ohio, 
in  the  first  place ;  gathered  to  Missouri ;  then  driven  from  Missouri, 
after  which  the  gathering  place  was  at  .Nauvoo,  Illinois,  from  1839 
until  1845  and  1846.  The  gathering  in  from  the  States  of  this  Union 
and  from  nearby  countries  to  the  places  I  have  mentioned  occupied 
from  fourteen  to  sixteen  years.  The  balance  of  the  one  hundred  years 
that  have  passed  and  which  we  are  commemorating,  have  been  spent 
by  the  saints  here  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains.  And  this  gathering 
has  gone  on  all  through  that  period,  even  up  to  the  present  time. 

How  has  this  been  accomplished?  It  has  been  accomplished  by 
the  Church,  the  power  of  this  Church,  the  influence  of  this  Church,  by 
the  people  of  this  Church,  the  poor  helping  the  poor  to  get  here  to  this 
land  of  Zion,  consecrated  and  dedicated  for  the  gathering  place.  For 
did  not  Isaiah  say  that  in  the  last  days  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  should  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  that  all 
nations  should  flow  unto  it  ?   This  has  been  truly  a  wonderful  work. 

THE  PERPETUAL  EMIGRATION  FUND 

In  the  early  days  of  our  settlement  here  the  Perpetual  Emigration 
Fund  was  established,  and  many  were  helped  here  through  that  fund. 
And  let  me  say  in  passing  that  the  widows  and  the  orphans  were  not 
forgotten.  President  Brigham  Young  said  we  would  dedicate  our  lives 
to  see  that  every  poor  faithful  saint, — widows,  orphans  and  all — was 
gathered  to  Zion.  That  work  has  gone  on  until  tens  of  thousands  and 
their  succeeding  generations,  amounting  now  to  hundreds  of  thousands, 
have  been  aided  and  helped. 

It  would  interest  you  if  you  were  to  go  into  the  books  of  the  Per- 
petual Emigration  Fund  and  see  some  of  the  names  of  families  who 
were  beneficiaries  of  that  Fund ;  rather  distinguished,  now  perhaps,  but 
very  poor  then — so  poor  that  they  had  to  be  helped  by  that  Fund,  and 
yet  they  are  now  some  of  the  richest  among  our  people.  Some  of  their 
children  unfortunately  have  forgotten.  It  is  a  bad  thing  to  forget.  It 
is  a  good  thing  to  remember  what  the  Lord  has  done  for  us.  And  the 
Lord  accomplished  that  work,  and  this  is  the  Zion  of  the  Lord  to  which 
they  came. 

TO  BUILD  UP  ZION 

I  recall,  away  back  in  1869,  when  I  went  on  my  first  mission,  we 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  NIB  LEY  29 


met  over  in  the  old  Seventies'  Hall.  President  Young  instructed  us  in 
these  words :  "Now  when  you  Elders  get  out  in  the  world  and  see. con- 
ditions there  and  think  of  the  good  things  we  have  here  at  home,  you 
may  get  to  praising  our  country  too  much.  Don't  do  that.  This  is 
what  I  would  like  you  to  promise  the  people  who  gather  to  Zion :  plenty 
of  hard  work  and  persecution." 

So  there  was  no  allurement  or  inducement  to  come  for  better  cir- 
cumstances, but  only  to  build  up  Zion.  And  this  has  been  Zion  all  the 
while.    Isaiah  said  concerning  it : 

"For  the  Lord  shall  comfort  Zion :  he  will  comfort  all  her  'waste  places ; 
and  he  will  make  her  wilderness  like  Eden,  and  her  desert  like  the  garden  of 
the  Lord ;  joy  and  gladness  shall  be  found  therein,  thanksgiving  and  the  voice 
of  melody." 

The  Lord  was  to  do  this.  To  whom?  To  Zion.  Do  you  know 
of  any  other  people  called  Zion  upon  the  face  of  the  earth?  Do  you 
know  of  anything  more  beautiful  than  this  verse  of  Isaiah's?  I  am 
going  to  take  the  liberty  of  reading  it  again : 

"For  the  Lord  shall  comfort  Zion :  he  will  comfort  all  her  waste  places." 

HER  WASTE  PLACES  COMFORTED 

Were  there  waste  places  here  when  our  pioneers  came  ?  Was  there 
anything  here  but  waste  and  desert  and  wilderness?  There  were  no 
paths.  Go  around  in  other  countries  where  there  is  food  for  wild  game 
and  you  will  find  trails — -for  jack-rabbits  at  least.  You  will  find  a  trail 
for  the  deer,  you  will  find  tracks.  There  was  not  anything  of  the  kind 
here.  For  it  was  so  much  of  a  waste  and  so  much  of  a  wilderness  and 
desert,  and  so  barren,  that  there  was  scarcely  any  game  except  way  back 
in  the  mountains.  It  was  in  very  deed  a  trackless  waste,  a  wilderness. 
There  were  no  streets,  no  paths,  no  trails,  no  anything, — just  a' desert. 
Yet  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  a  few  days  after  arriving  here,  putting 
down  his  cane  right  on  this  block,  prophesied,  "Here  we  will  build  the 
temple  of  the  Lord." 

"For  the  Lord  shall  comfort  Zion :  he  will  comfort  all  her  waste  places ; 
and  he  will  make  her  wilderness  like  Eden,  and  her  deserts  like  the  garden  of 
the  Lord;  joy  and  gladness  shall  be  found  therein,  thanksgiving  and 'the  voice 
of  melody." 

Is  the  voice  of  melody  here  today?  Is  there  any  place  in  the  world 
where  there  are  sweeter  singers  and  more  of  them  in  proportion  to  the 
population  than  right  here?  Is  there  any  more  of  thanksgiving  and 
the  voice  of  melody  anywhere  else  in  the  world  according  to  numbers, 
than  there  is  here  in  this  land?  This  is  Zion.  The  Lord  will  comfort 
Zion  and  all  her  waste  places,  and  he  will  make  her  wilderness  like 
Eden  and  her  desert  like  the  garden  of  the  Lord. 

Another  verse  by  the  same  Isaiah  and  with  respect  to  the  same 
Zion : 

"And  the  ransomed' of  the  Lord  shall  return,  and  come  to  Zion'  with  songs 
and  everlasting  joy  upon  their  heads;  they  shall  obtain  joy  and  gladness,  and 
sorrow  and  sighing  shall  flee  away." 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


This  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  concerning  Zion.  This  is  the  Zion 
of  our  Lord. 

THE  LORD  HAS  DONE  IT 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  speak  further  in  respect  to  this  one 
great  outstanding,  wonderful  work  that  the  Lord  has  accomplished 
with  Zion — the  gathering  of  the  saints  from  all  parts  of  the  earth.  He 
has  brought  it  about.  He  has  overruled  it.  It  is  he  that  hath  made  us, 
and  not  we  ourselves.  Do  not  forget  that.  The  sacrifices  that  our 
parents  have  made  have  been  most  wonderful.  The  Lord  was  with 
them.  My  heart  sorrows  when  I  think  of  my  own  parents,  the  poverty 
and  sacrifice  that  they  had  to  undergo  in  so  many  different  ways ;  and 
I  glory  in  the  fact  that  they  failed  not  nor  faltered,  but  stood  firm 
through  it  all.  They  gave  of  their  lives  for  my  sake,  so  that  the  path 
is  easier  for  me,  and  I  am  blessed  more  in  living  and  trying  to  live  to 
help  on  in  that  great  work.  All  praise  be  unto  the  Lord  for  his  good- 
ness and  mercy  and  blessings. 

BLESSINGS  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE  AND  SACRIFICE 

I  praise  the  Lord  for  the  association  of  my  brethren,  for  the  priv- 
ilege of  meeting  with  the  saints,  for  the  enjoyment  I  have  in  laboring 
for  this  great  cause.  I  know  it  is  the  work  of  God.  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  this  people  will  be  blessed 
far  more  than  they  ever  have  been  blessed,  far  more  than  they  could 
hope  to  be  blessed,  if  we  will  only,  as  our  President  has  said,  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord,  pay  our  tithes,  and  sacrifice  something  for 
the  kingdom  of  God.  It  is  sacrifice  that  brings  forth  the  blessings  of 
heaven,  let  me  tell  you,  and  the  man  or  woman  who  is  not  willing  to 
make  some  sacrifice  cannot  claim  the  blessings. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  build  up  his  kingdom,  glorify  his  holy  name, 
and  remember  that  in  this  great  hundred  years  past  what  a  wonderful 
work  of  gathering  to  Zion  has  been  accomplished.  Such  a  beneficent, 
blessed  piece  of  constructive  work,  the  greatest  contribution  to  tens  of 
thousands  of  the  poor  that  have  been  so  thoroughly  blessed  by  it,  must 
be  recognized  by  all  men,  and  acknowledged  as  a  good  work.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  This  is  an  historic  occasion.  In  view 
of  the  great  celebration  of  the  centenary  of  the  Church  now  in  progress, 
my  thoughts  of  late  have  turned  to  the  prophecies  of  old.  Many  of 
the  predictions  of  the  ancient  prophets  have  been  fulfilled  to  the  letter 
so  far  as  time  has  gone,  others  are  in  process  of  fulfilment. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  very  remarkable  incident  that  occurred  in  the 
very  early  years  of  the  earth's  history.  This  incident  has  been  briefly 
referred  to  by  my  brethren  who  have  already  spoken,  but  I  have  been 
looking  at  it  from  a  little  different  angle. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  31 


NEBUCHADNEZZAR  DREAMS  A  DREAM 

It  would  seem  that  Nebuchadnezzar,  the  king  of  Babylon,  dreamed 
a  dream  which  made  a  profound  impression  upon  his  mind,  but  strange 
to  say,  upon  awakening,  he  was  unable  to  recall  the  dream,  and  the 
interpretation  thereof.  So  he  called  for  the  wise  men  of  Babylon,  the 
magicians,  the  astrologers,  the  sorcerers  and  the  Chaldeans,  and  he  com- 
manded them  to  bring  back  his  dream  and  give  the  interpretation 
thereof.  If  they  would  do  this  he  promised  them  gifts  and  rewards. 
But  if  they  failed  he  warned  them  that  they  would  be  cut  to  pieces 
and  destroyed. 

They  said  to  him,  "O  king,  live  forever :  tell  thy  servants  the  dream, 
and  we  will  shew  thee  the  interpretation." 

The  king  said,  "The  thing  is  gone  from  me." 

AN  UNUSUAL  REQUEST 

Thereupon  the  wise  men  were  very  much  agitated,  and  they  said 
to  him: 

"O  king,  thou  hast  required  of  us  an  unusual  thing.  There  is  no  man  upon 
the  earth  who  can  show  the  king  this  matter.  It  is  only  the  gods,  whose 
dwelling  is  not  with  flesh,  that  can  bring  back  your  dream." 

For  this  cause  the  king  was  angry  and  very  furious,  and  sent  forth 
a  decree  that  the  wise  men  of  Babylon  should  be  destroyed. 

This  was  a  very  critical  time  for  Daniel,  the  young  Hebrew  prophet, 
and  his  three  brethren  who  were  numbered  among  the  wise  men  of. 
Babylon.  Daniel  sought  an  interview  with  the  king  and  plead  with 
him  for  further  time,  saying  that  he  would  get  the  interpretation  of 
his  dream.    His  request  was  granted. 

THE  KING'S  DREAM  MADE  KNOWN 

Now,  mark  you,  by  the  prayer  of  faith  the  king's  dream  was  made 
known  to  Daniel  of  the  Lord,  and  the  interpretation  was  given.  Once 
more  Daniel  was  conducted  before  the  king  and  he  said  to  him : 

"We  will  bring  back  your  dream,  O  king,  and  we  will  give  you  the  interpre- 
tation thereof." 

And  so  he  said: 

"Thou,  O  king,  sawest,  and  behold  a  great  image.  This  great  image,  whose 
brightness  was  excellent,  stood  before  thee,  and  the  form  thereof  was  terrible. 

"This  image's  head  was  of  fine  gold,  his  breast  and  his  arms  of  silver, 
his  belly  and  his  thighs  of  brass, 

"His  legs  of  iron,  his  feet  part  of  iron  and  part  of  clay." 

And  then,  the  prophet  said : 

"Thou  sawest  till  that  a  stone  was  cut  out  without  hands,  which  smote 
the  image  upon  his  feet  that  were  of  iron  and  clay,  and  brake  them  to  pieces. 

"Then  was  the  iron,  the  clay,  the  brass,  the  silver,  and  the  gold,  broken  to 
pieces  together  and  became  like  the  chaff  of  the  summer  threshing  floors ;  and 
the  wind  carried  them  away,  that  no  place  was  found  for  them :  and  the  stone 
that  smote  the  image  became  a  great  mountain,  and  filled  the  whole  earth. 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"This  is  the  dream;  and  we  will  tell  the  interpretation  thereof  before 
the  king." 

THE  INTERPRETATION 

He  said : 

"Thou,  O  king,  art  a  king  of  kings :  for  the  God  of  heaven  hath  given 
thee  a  kingdom,  power,  and  strength,  and  glory. 

"And  wheresoever  the  children  of  men  dwell,  the  beasts  of  the  field,  and 
the  fowls  of  the  heaven,  hath  he  given  into  thine  hand,  and  hath  made  thee  ruler 
over  them  all.    Thou  art  this  head  of  gold. 

"And  after  thee  shall  arise  another  kingdom  inferior  to  thee,  and  another 
third  kingdom  of  brass,  which  shall  bear  rule  over  all  the  earth. 

"And  the  fourth  kingdom  shall  be  strong  as  iron." 

This  fourth  kingdom  was  represented  by  the  feet  and  toes  of  iron 
and  of  clay. 

"Forasmuch  as  thou  sawest  that  the  stone  was  cut  out  of  the  mountain 
without  hands,  and  that  it  brake  in  pieces  the  iron,  the  brass,  the  clay,  the 
silver,  and  the  gold ;  the  great  God  hath  made  known  to  the  king  what  shall 
come  to  pass  hereafter :  and  the  dream  is  certain,  and  the  interpretation 
thereof  sure." 

And  he  said  further: 

"And  in  the  days  of  these  kings  shall  the  God  of  heaven  set  up  a  kingdom 
which  shall  never  be  destroyed :  and  the  kingdom  shall  not  be  left  to  other 
people,  but  it  shall  break  in  pieces  and  consume  all  these  kingdoms,  and  it 
shall  stand  forever." 

THE  FULFILMENT 

The  Christian  world  of  today  is  witness  of  the  fact  that  the  very 
things  which  the  great  image  stood  for  have  occurred  so  far  as  time 
has  gone.  History  certifies  to  the  fact  that  King  Nebuchadnezzar  was 
the  head  of  gold.  The  Medes  arid  Persians,  an  inferior  kingdom  to 
Babylon,  were  the  arms  and  breast  of  silver.  The  Macedonian  king- 
dom, under  Alexander  the  Great,  was  the  belly  and  thighs  of  brass  ; 
and  the  Roman  kingdom  under  the  Caesars  was  the  legs  of  iron.  For 
mark  you,  later  on  the  kingdom,  or  empire  of  Rome,  was  divided. 
The  head  of  the  government  in  one  division  was  at  Rome  and  the  head 
of  the  government  in  the  other  division  was  at  Constantinople.  So 
these  two  great  divisions  represented  the  legs  of  iron.  Finally,  the 
Roman  empire  was  broken  up  into  smaller  kingdoms,  represented  by  the 
feet  and  toes  of  iron  and  clay,  and  as  there  were  ten  toes  on  the  image 
we  might  well  conclude  that  the  following  ten  kingdoms  stand  to  repre- 
sent the  toes :  Italy,  established  in  496  A.  D. ;  France,  in  753 ;  England, 
853;  Germany,  806;  Holland,  922;  Portugal,  1138;  Persia,  1139; 
Austria-Hungary,  1159;  Spain,  1171;  Greece,  1829  A.  D. 

THE  STONE  CUT  OUT  OF  THE  MOUNTAIN 

The  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without  hands,  representing 
the  kingdom  of  God,  was  established  April  6th,  1830,  with  six  members, 
and  is  known  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Thus 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


33 


the  work  of  the  Lord  in  our  own  time,  designated  by  revelation  as  a 
marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  had  a  very  humble  beginning,  but  it 
has  grown  apace.  Today  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  a  membership  of  about  700,000.  It  cost  the  best  blood  of 
the  nineteenth  century  to  establish  this  work  on  the  earth.  Its  founder, 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  his  brother  Hyrum  Smith,  the  Patriarch, 
were  martyred  for  the  cause  of  truth,  in  Carthage,  Illinois,  in  1844. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  have  passed  through  the  fire  of  persecution  and 
have  stood  the  test  of  one  hundred  years.  Never  was  the  prospect 
brighter  for  our  people  than  it  is  today.  We  sincerely  believe,  and, 
I  may  say,  have  every  assurance,  that  this  Church  will  stand  forever. 
It  is  indeed  the  Church  of  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind. 

ITS  ORGANIZATION 

Within  its  organization  will  be  found  a  line  of  general  authorities, 
consisting  of  a  First  Presidency  of  three,  a  council  of  Twelve  Apostles, 
a  Presiding  Patriarch,  a  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  a  Presiding 
Bishopric.  There  are  in  the  Church  also  numerous  quorums  of  High 
Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons,  by  which 
and  through  which  the  affairs  of  the  Church  are  conducted  and  the 
Gospel  preached  to  the  saints  and  to  the  world  and  the  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel  administered  for  the  salvation  of  souls. 

For  the  knowledge  I  have  and  of  which  I  humbly  testify  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  God,  I  am 
truly  thankful  and  feel  to  praise  the  Lord. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  God  bless  the  people  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  prosper  his  work,  and  bless  those  who  preside 
over  and  direct  the  affairs  of  his  Church  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

An  original  dramatic  poem,  written  especially  for  this  occasion, 
will  now  be  read  by  its  author,  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney. 

Elder  Whitney  then  took  the  stand  and  read  the  poem,  which 
follows : 

THE  LIFTED'  ENSIGN— A  CALL  TO  ISRAEL 

"And  he  shall  set  up  an  ensign  for  the  nations,  and  shall  assemble  the 
outcasts  of  Israel,  and  gather  together  the  dispersed  of  Judah  from  the  four 
corners  of  the  earth." — Isaiah  11 :12. 

Characters  Impersonated : 
elias  ::  ephraim  ::  judah 

elias  : 

A  voice  that  crieth  in  the  Wilderness : 

"Make  plain  and  straight  the  Highway  of  our  God !" 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


One  Hundred  Years,  on  Time's  swift  pinions  flown, 
Since  raised  the  Ensign  for  the  Gathering — 
One  hundred  years,  and  still  the  standard  waves, 
Summoning  the  chosen  from  world-wandering, 
Calling  the  covenant  people  from  afar, 
To  greet  the  coming  of  their  God  and  King. 

Children  of  Jacob,  Isaac,  Abraham, 
Sheep  of  the  flock  the  Shepherd  comes  to  fold ! 
How  have  ye  answered  to  his  beckoning  call  ? 
What  have  ye  done  his  pathway  to  prepare  ? 

Give  answer,  Ephraim,  from  thy  mountain  height, 
Where  streams  the  signal  seen  and  sung  of  yore — 
First-born  of  God  in  these,  Earth's  final  days, 
Speak  thou,  and  let  the  winds  thy  story  tell ! 

ephraim  : 

I  hear  thee,  and  with  joy  I  answer  thee: 
'Twas  mine  to  welcome  the  return  of  Truth, 
Of  old  from  Error's  wide  domain  withdrawn ; 
Mine  to  unshroud  the  buried  mystery 
Of  mighty  nations,  whispering  from  the  dust ; 
Mine  to  unfurl  the  Ensign,  and  to  sound 
O'er  sea  and  land  the  tidings  wonderful ; 
Flooding  the  world  with  truth  and  righteousness, 
Thrusting  the  sickle  in  the  golden  grain, 
Reaping  a  ripened  field,  and  garnering 
The  earliest  sheaves  of  Israel's  harvest  home. 

I've  toiled  and  wept  and  bled  to  bring  once  more 

The  fulness  of  Christ's  Message  unto  men ; 

To  build  redemptive  Temples,  that  the  dead, 

Obedient  to  law  in  spirit  realms, 

Might  with  the  living  share  in  joys  divine. 

More  wouldst  thou  hear  ? — 

There's  more  I  fain  would  tell. 

elias  : 

Tell  on ! — tell  on  !   Truth  wearies  not  mine  ear. 
ephraim  : 

Expelled  by  tyranny  from  Freedom's  ground, 

I  tracked  the  lone  untrodden  wilderness. 

Here  'neath  my  virile  touch,  once  barren  wilds 

Now  sing  for  joy  and  bloom  delightsomely. 

I've  planted  Zion's  outposts,  firm  and  strong, 

Rock-fortressed  by  the  everlasting  hills, 

Where  Faith  expectantly  doth  bide  the  hour 

When  Zion's  self  from  Eden's  soil  shall  rise, 

Thrilled  by  the  glad  acclaim  :   "The  Bridegroom  comes 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


Nor  all  my  ministries  on  Western  shores, 

Nor  all  my  sympathies  with  next  of  kin. 

Have  I  not  stood  on  ancient  Olivet, 

And  offered  prayer  to  heaven  for  Judah's  weal  ? 

Have  I  not  combed  the  universe  and  drawn 

The  choice  of  nations  to  this  favored  land, 

Where  homing  tribes  shall  shout  to  trembling  hills, 

And  lift  hosannas  to  the  listening  skies 

That  light  the  towers  of  New  Jerusalem? 

By  these  and  kindred  works  my  faith  is  shown. 
Thus  have  I  answered  to  the  Shepherd's  call. 

elias  : 

And  answered  well.   And  He  whose  day  now  dawn 

Shall  crown  thy  valor  with  a  recompense 

As  boundless,  endless  as  eternity. 

Now,  Judah,  tell  thy  tale !  'What  deeds  of  thine 

Are  strewn  as  flowers  along  Messiah's  way? 

judah : 

Messiah  ? — Him  I  see  not  in  the  man 

Whom  Christians  name  the  Christ,  their  holy  one. 

I  see  not  in  their  God  my  fathers'  God, 

Whose  covenant  abides  with  Abraham  ; 

Who  spake  to  Moses  in  the  fiery  Mount, 

And  gave  the  Law  to  govern  Israel. 

Blind  am  I  to  what  Ephraim  beholds. 

Perchance  the  air  is  purer,  view  more  large, 

On  yonder  height  where  stalwartly  he  stands, 

Than  in  the  misty  vale  where  I  respire. 

Thinkst  thou  I  err,  his  thought  interpreting  ? 

But  I  am  with  him  in  the  war  for  right, 
For  justice  and  the  freedom  of  the  world. 
And  to  this  cause  give  I  a  willing  hand, 
And  pledge  my  friendship,  faith  and  loyalty. 

elias  : 

Thou  sayest  well — yet  well  might'st  say  far  more 
For  Israel's  God,  Jehovah,  Lord  of  All, 
Who  gave  the  Gospel  as  He  gave  the  Law, 
And  died  that  endless  death  might  vanquished  be. 
What  limit  to  His  merit  or  His  claim? 

judah  : 

Plead  not  with  me  my  ancient  faith  to  change — 
Older  than  aught  by  Christians  deemed  divine  ; 
Pure  as  the  snowy  peaks  of  Lebanon, 
That  pour  reviving  streams  o'er  thirsty  plains. 
What  nobler  doctrine  than  the  Decalogue? 
What  higher  law  than  Justice  can'st  thou  name  ? 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


elias  : 

Is  Justice  more  than  Mercy — more  than  Love  ? 
No  need  to  change  thy  faith,  but  build  thereon. 
If  thou  the  Perfect  Law  wouldst  comprehend, 
Its  loftiest,  purest,  heavenmost  height  attain, 
Add  unto  justice  the  pure  love  of  God  — 
Sweet  Charity,  of  graces  all  the  crown. 

judah : 

Justice — not  Mercy — is  the  Jew's  demand. 

And  tell  me,  when  did  Christian  charity 

Mean  justice  for  the  wronged,  down-trodden  Jew? 

Mercy,  forsooth !  what  mercy  have  they  shown, 

Who  slaughter  'neath  the  banner  of  the  Cross? 

Too  much  we  hear  of  love  and  charity, 

From  lips  of  hate,  from  hearts  of  cruelty, 

Boasting  a  leader  whom  they  follow  not, 

Prating  of  love,  but  never  practising. 

This  Jesus,  whom  they  laud,  not  emulate, 

Good  man — e'en  great  perchance.   But  why  a  God  ? 

Joseph  and  Mary's  son,  a  common  Jew, 

Who  sat  at  feet  of  rabbis  famed  for  lore, 

And  learned  from  them,  yet  brought  forth  nothing  new. 

Why  should  the  knee  of  Israel  bend  to  him  ? 

elias  : 

Sat  He  at  no  man's  feet  for  power  to  save 
And  lift  up  fallen  worlds.   His  wisdom  came 
From  heights  more  distant  than  the  unseen  stars, 
Fresh  as  the  morning  dew  upon  the  flower ; 
Pure  as  the  snow — so  white  on  Lebanon 
Till  tainted  by  the  soil  through  which  it  flows — 
Truth  by  tradition's  muddy  stream  unroiled. 

The  sapient  rabbis,  famed  for  antique  lore, 

Might  well  have  learned  from  Him — but  would  not  learn. 

The  wisest  of  the  scribes  and  pharisees, 

Astounded,  routed  were,  and  put  to  shame 

By  One  who  spake  as  no  man  since  or  ere. 

Old  was  his  doctrine — truth  is  ever  old — 

Old  as  its  parent  spring,  Eternity, 

Old  upon  earth,  from  Adam  until  now. 

Yet  seemed  it  new  to  them ; — and  this  the  cause, 

The  chief  and  primal  cause  of  that  great  crime 

Which  on  the  cross  He  pardoned  and  forgave. 

Man — merest  man  will  die  a  friend  to  save. 
Who  but  a  God,  to  save  both  foe  and  friend  ? 
And  very  God  was  He,  though  human-born, 
Divinely-gotten  Child  of  Deity. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


But  why  waste  words  upon  those  recreant  Jews, 
Those  pseudo  Christians — false  that  mask  as  true  ? 
The  salt  can  lose  its  savor — so  with  them — 
Unworthy  parts,  bespeaking  not  the  whole. 
Why  dwell  upon  these  human  happenings? 
Lift  thought  and  argument  to  higher  planes. 

JUDAH  : 

Amen !  say  I.   And  now  to  me  make  plain — 
To  me,  who  am  so  dull — this  mystery : 
What  need  had  Israel  of  this  Nazarene? 
Why  came  a  Christ,  great  Moses  having  come? 
And  why  a  Gospel  when  the  Law  was  known  ? 

ELIAS  : 

What  need  of  Christ — the  Lord — since  Moses  came? 

Moses  to  Christ  was  but  as  part  to  whole, 

Preface  to  book,  mere  river  to  the  sea, 

And  all  the  dispensations  of  the  past, 

When  heaven  hath  gladdened  earth  with  spirit  showers, 

Are  but  as  streams  that  to  one  Ocean  flow. 

Why  separate  the  Gospel  from  the  Law — 
Greater  and  less — container  and  contained? 
Why  part  God  from  his  prophet  messengers, 
Sent  from  Above  to  voice  and  work  his  will, 
And  preparation  make  for  mightier  things 
Than  e'er  were  known  among  the  sons  of  men ; 
Completing  what  creation's  morn  began, 
When  Gods  in  glory  launched  a  universe? 

judah  : 

But  Abraham — the  solemn  Covenant — 

Jehovah's  sacred  promise  to  His  own : 

"In  thee  and  thine  all  men,  all  nations  blest" — 

Spoken  these  words  upon  the  idle  wind, 

That  now  they  be  as  though  they  ne'er  had  been  ? 

elias  : 

'Twas  Christ  made  covenant  with  Abraham, 
Jesus,  Jehovah — for  the  twain  are  one; — 
Then  gave  Himself  that  covenant  to  fulfill ; 
And  mixt  His  people  with  earth's  alien  tribes, 
That  all — not  Israel  only — might  be  blest, 
Nor  least  and  last  of  nations  fail  to  share 
In  blessings  showered  through  him  upon  the  world, 
Sprinkled,  as  rain,  with  his  believing  blood ; 
Peopling  the  arid  wastes  of  unbelief 
With  souls  responsive  to  the  clarion  call 
Shaking  the  seas  and  isles  and  continents, 
And  gathering  what  was  scattered  ages  gone. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


JUDAH  : 

But  Moses — what  of  him?   Lived  he  for  naught? 
Sayest  thou  his  mighty  mission  was  in  vain? 

elias  : 

Nay ;  but  to  round  his  glorious  ministry, 
And  link  the  lesser  with  the  greater  part, 
Making  effectual  all  that  went  before, 
In  this,  the  dispensation  last  of  all, 
Came  he  the  Keys  of  Gathering  to  restore ; 
Lest  Ephraim's  rallying"  standard  wave  in  vain 
O'er  Joseph's  land  and  Zion's,  known  of  old 
By  seers  and  prophets  from  thy  household  sprung. 
Whose  sacred  words  flow  down  the  centuries 
To  find  fulfillment  in  this  ample  age, 
Where  past  and  present,  sire  and  son  must  join, 
Perfection  reign,  and  all  in  Christ  be  one. 

Ephraim  his  part  hath  played,  and  thou  no  less, 
In  God's  great  drama — "Marvel  and  Wonder"  named. 
Wherefore,  complete  thy  story,  well  begun. 
What  hast  thou  done  His  pathway  to  prepare  ? 

JUDAH  : 

His  pathway! — his,  the  peasant  carpenter, 
Whose  body,  stolen  from  the  tomb,  long  since 
Hath  crumbled  and  returned  to  native  dust? 
Granting,  for  argument,  he  is  to  come, 
Why  should  I  strew  with  palms  his  earthward  way? 
Why  for  his  coming  should  my  soul  prepare? 

elias  : 

Because  He  is  thy  Father  and  thy  Friend, 

Because  He  is  the  God  of  Israel — 

Buried  yet  risen  Savior  of  mankind, 

Author  and  Giver  of  the  life  divine. 

What  hast  thou  done  that  He  on  earth  may  reign  ? 

Silent?  Then  wouldst  thou  choose  one  speak  for  thee, 

Who  ne'er  unfriendly  was  to  thee  or  thine, 

But  sympathetic  in  thy  sorrows  all? 

For  thou  hast  borne  the  brunt  of  martyrdom, 

Alike  in  Christian  and  in  heathen  lands, 

Enduring  long  and  suffering  patiently, 

While  lesser  breeds  have  trampled  thee  and  spurned. 

Driven — despoiled — tortured  and  trodden  down, 

Drinking  the  bitter  cup,  Captivity, 

Yet  still,  through  groaning,  pain-racked  centuries 

Honoring  Jehovah's  name,  Jehovah's  law, 

Spreading  the  knowledge  of  the  living  God 

Amid  the  shrines  of  Baal  and  Ashtoreth. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


Why  'twas  thy  hand  the  instrument  became 
Of  purpose  heaven-ordained  ere  earth  began, 
Whereby,  through  sacrifice  and  death,  came  Life, 
To  rescue  and  redeem  a  fallen  world, — 
No  mortal  knoweth.    Only  this  men  know: 
Christ  did  not  cast  thee  off.   He  that  forgave 
Is  still  thy  Friend — as  are  true  Christians  all ; 
For  none  love  God  who  hate  what  God  doth  love. 

Forth  in  these  modern  days  thine  eager  hand, 

To  build  anew  the  old  Jerusalem, 

To  raise  once  more  her  walls,  oft  leveled  down  ; 

To  gather  in  thy  sons  and  daughters  fair, 

And  sow  a  sterile  land  with  f  ruitf  ulness  ; 

Redeeming  thus  thine  ancient  heritage, 

That  Zion's  King  may  sit  on  David's  throne. 

Not  all  thy  sons  thy  wearied  arms  uphold, 

Not  all  are  Hurs  and  Aarons  in  the  strife. 

Summon  thy  worldings  from  the  tinseled  show, 

Where  folly  reigns  and  ruin  works  its  will. 

Teach  them  to  play  a  better,  nobler  part, 

And  walk  with  thee  the  greater  "Great  White  Way." 

Rouse  all  that  slumber  beneath  sordid  spells, 

Or  unto  gods  of  dust  low  homage  pay; 

Bid  them  to  bring  their  gold  and  jewels  rare, 

Their  heaped  up  stores  of  precious  merchandise, 

Their  wealth,  like  Pelion  on  Ossa  piled, 

And  beautify  the  Holy  Place  of  Him 

Whose  law  shall  yet  from  Zion's  land  go  forth, 

Whose  royal  edict  from  Jerusalem. 

For  Israel  o'er  Amalek  must  prevail, 

And  repossess  in  full  the  Promised  Land. 

Ah !  Judah,  couldst  thou  see  what  Ephraim  sees — 
Thy  monarch  in  that  lowly  Nazarene, 
Long-symboled  by  the  oft-slain  paschal  lamb, 
Prophetic  of  the  Sacrifice  Supreme. 

Would  thou  couldst  see  what  ancient  seers  discerned, 

What  spirit-quickened  eyes  may  now  behold — 

Messiah  in  that  Prophet  first-of-all, 

The  Moses  of  a  mightier  Exodus 

Than  e'er  was  dreamt  of  in  rabbinic  lore ; 

Deliverer  of  a  captive  universe, 

In  bondage  to  the  powers  of  death  and  hell ! 

And  thy  Deliverer  in  a  day  to  come,  • 
When  hostile  legions  thunder  at  thy  gates, 
When  half  thy  city  hath  become  a  spoil, 
As  written  in  the  scroll  of  prophecy. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Then  shalt  thou  see  and  feel  His  wounded  hands, 
Then  shalt  thou  fall  and  worship  at  His  feet ; 
And  all  that  fight  'gainst  Jacob's,  Judah's  God, 
Shall  be  as  dust  and  ashes  whirl-wind-blown, 
As  flying  chaff  before  the  hurricane. 

JUDAH  : 

What  confirmation  hath  this  mighty  claim  ? 
How  can  I  know  if  such  great  things  be  true? 
If  I  be  blind,  who  will  my  sight  unscale? 

ELIAS  : 

He  who  makes  blind  to  see  and  deaf  to  hear ! — 
Hearken  to  Him  and  whomso'er  He  sends. 
Bow  to  the  sceptre  of  the  Son  of  God, 
The  Gospel  of  the  High  and  Holy  One, 
And  by  that  Gift  which  maketh  manifest 
Thou'lt  clearly  see  and  of  a  surety  know 
The  message  Ephraim  brings  thee  is  divine, — 
Old  and  yet  new,  the  Everlasting  Truth, 
•  Pure  from  the  presence  of  our  fathers'  God. 
Fresh  from  the  fountains  of  Eternity. 

JUDAH  : 

Why  Ephraim  ?   Why  his  proud  pre-eminence, 

Towering  amid  the  tents  of  Israel? 

Why  should  his  word  or  thine  determine  all? 

elias  : 

Because  it  is  the  word  of  Israel's  God, 

Whose  servant  I,  as  I  would  fain  be  thine ; — 

The  God  of  Moses  and  of  Abraham, 

The  God  of  patriarchs  and  prophets  all, 

The  God  of  Israel  free  and  Israel  chained ; 

God  of  the  humble  and  the  pure-in-heart ; 

God  of  the  just,  in  every  age  and  clime; 

The  Christ  of  Bethlehem  and  Calvary, 

The  King  of  Kings,  the  crucified  and  crowned. 

Come,  weary-laden,  He  will  give  thee  rest, 

And  thou  shalt  tread  the  rose-strewn  path  of  peace. 

ephraim  : 

Heed,  Judah !  heed  Messiah's  messenger, 
Hearken  to  me,  thy  brother  and  thy  friend. 
No  more  doth  envy  of  thee  sour  my  soul, 
Nor  doth  thine  anger  vex  me,  as  of  yore. 
Forgiven  as  I  forgive,  clean,  clear  I  stand, 
And  I  am  sent  Good  Tidings  to  proclaim. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  41 


No  man-made  creed — no  dogma  vague,  unsound — 
The  Ancient  Faith,  pure,  simple,  sweet,  sublime, 
The  Gospel  in  its  plentitude  of  power, 
The  Gospel  in  its  fulness — this  I  bring. 

elias  : 

Judah!  'tis  Ephraim  calls — he  loves  thee  well, 
His  hand  extends,  his  heart,  to  welcome  thee. 
Why  stand  aloof  ?   Why  doubt  and  hesitate  ? 
Jerusalem  and  Zion  are  as  one. 
See  Japheth  launch  his  ships  to  people  them ! 
The  Gentile,  all  unknowingly  doth  serve 
The  cause  of  Him  who  summons  Israel 
To  Joseph's  land,  to  Judah's  hills  and  vales. 
Behold  them  in  their  flight  from  Babel's  doom, 
Borne  on  the  shoulders  of  the  Philistine? 

Be  not  outstript  in  such  a  glorious  race. 
Judah,  arise !   Put  on  thine  ancient  might, 
Expand  thy  soul,  enlarge  thy  sympathy ; 
Join  hands  with  Ephraim,  and  bring  to  pass 
All  that  the  prophets  and  the  seers  foretold ! 

judah : 

Thy  speech  I  can  believe  most  kindly  meant, 
Thy  motive  pure  and  generous  and  just. 
But  who  can  change  the  course  of  destiny? 
Who  void  what  Great  Jehovah  hath  decreed  ? 
'Tis  conscience  guides  me,  and  high  Heaven  alone 
Doth  hold,  of  that  mysterious  lock,  the  key. 

Yet  something  tells  me  we  shall  meet  again. 
God  grant  it  be  as  friends !    And  so,  farewell. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  mountain 
tops." 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters :  I  am  going  to  read  my  remarks  on 
this  occasion  in  the  interest  of  brevity,  but  chiefly  in  order  that  I  may 
know  when  I  am  through.  I  warn  you,  however,  that  I  read  very  much 
worse  even  than  I  speak.  If  I  do  not  present  all  I  would  like  to  say 
on  this  occasion  I  shall  still  be  very  happy,  because  I  am  going  to  ask 
leave  "to  print"  the  parts  that  must  be  omitted  in  my  verbal  remarks. 
In  this,  too,  I  shall  be  happy,  because  the  printed  parts  of  the  speech 
are  already  set  up  by  the  printers,  and  those  parts  constitute  six  large 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


volumes,  each  from  five  hundred  and  sixty  to  six  hundred  pages  per 
volume,  making  in  all  over  3,400  pages.  That  work,  with  the  verbal 
remarks  I  am  now  making,  will  constitute  my  discourse  at  this  first 
centennial  conference  of  the  Church,  covering  one  hundred  years  of 
organized  existence. 

Of  course  you  will  surmise  by  now  that  I  am  making  reference 
to  the  Comprehensive  History  of  the  Church,  Century  I,  which  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  has  directed  to  be  published  as  one  of  the 
features  of  this  centennial  conference ;  and  which  they  directed  me 
about  a  year  ago  to  prepare.  I  can  now  report  that  five  of  those  volumes 
are  printed  and  bound,  and  that  the  sixth  will  be  printed  and  bound  by 
the  middle  of  April  or  at  farthest  by  the  first  of  May. 

I  would  not  have  you  think,  however,  this  history  of  a  hundred 
years  has  been  wholly  prepared  in  the  time  limit  of  a  year.  Its  present 
publication  is  rather  the  culmination  of  many  years — I  might  say  of 
a  life-time  of  work.  Under  circumstances  quite  remarkable — but  too 
full  of  detail  to  speak  of  now — an  opportunity  came  to  me  to  write  for 
a  New  York  magazine  what  its  publishers  called  a  detailed  "History 
of  the  Mormon  Church."  To  make  space  for  it  they  changed  the 
magazine  from  a  bi-monthly  to  a  monthly  periodical ;  enlarged  its  size, 
and  at  the  same  time  changed  its  name  from  "The  American  Historical 
Magazine"  to  "Americana."  "The  History  of  the  Mormon  Church," 
as  the  article  prepared  was  then  called,  ran  through  six  years  of  that 
publication,  beginning  in  1911,  and  ran  at  an  average  of  forty-two  pages 
per  number.  After  its  publication  in  that  form,  two  years  more  were 
spent  in  verifying  its  numerous  references  and  improving  its  arrange- 
ment; and  now  another  rather  strenuous  year  has  been  devoted  to  its 
final  preparation  for  the  press. 

I  will  ask  you  to  remember  that  this  publication  is  not  mine  beyond 
the  mere  matter  of  construction.  The  publication  of  it  both  in  the 
first  instance  and  now  was  made  possible  by  action  of  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church,  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  now  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant.  From  first  to  last  the  Presidency  will  have  advanced 
for  the  publication  as  it  now  issues  from  the  press  at  least  $100,000; 
and  they  propose  to  have  it  sold  at  such  prices  to  the  people — as  I 
understand  it — so  nearly  the  cost  of  producing  it,  that  I  am  doubtful  if 
they  will  ever  recover  from  the  sale  of  it  the  money  they  have  advanced 
for  its  production  and  reasonable  interest  upon  it. 

Permit  me  to  say  that  financially  this  work  means  nothing  to  me. 
Its  publication  and  sale  will  not  bring  me  one  dollar  for  its  preparation; 
if  it  did  I  should  shame  to  speak  of  it  here  as  advertising  my  own  wares. 
But  this  is  not  so,  the  work  is  not  mine  financially,  I  could  not  have 
financed  it,  neither  shall  I  profit  financially  by  it.  My  work  in  con- 
nection with  it  has  been  given  in  the  ordinary  service  of  my  regular 
work  in  the  Church,  prompted  and  sustained  through  all  the  years  by 
my  deep  love  of  the  subject,  and  my  desire  to  leave  on  record  one 
sermon  on  the  New  Dispensation  of  the  Gospel.    And  I  am  grateful  to 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


43 


those  who  have  made  possible  the  production  of  my  discourse  that 
requires  six  large  full  volumes  to  contain  it.  In  my  remarks,  then, 
I  am  just  reporting  a  work  which  the  Church  has  undertaken  and  has 
brought  to  what  I  venture  to  think  is  a  successful  termination. 

Some  may  question  the  need  of  so  voluminous  a  work.  Six  vol- 
umes! Why  could  not  the  history  of  a  hundred  years  of  the  New 
Dispensation  have  been  written  in  one  volume,  or  at  most  in  two? 
For  some  purposes  that  might  well  be.  But  I  desire  to  say  a  word  of 
justification  for  the  largeness  of  this  work. 

In  the  first  place  you  have  to  deal  with  an  immense  subject.  You 
have  to  consider  the  first  century'  of  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness 
of  Times.  That  is  the  dispensation  of  all  dispensations ;  the  one  which 
will  gather  into  itself  all  the  dispensations  of  God's  revealed  will  through 
all  the  ages,  from  the  days  of,  Adam  until  the  present  time;  the  dis- 
pensation when  God  will  "gather  together  in  one  all  things  in  Christ, 
both  which  are  in  heaven  and  in  earth,  even  in  him"  (Eph.  i).  The 
history  of  this  dispensation  then  is  some  contract.  In  it  the  ends  of 
the  earth  meet.  It  comprises  in  a  way,  the  history  of  the  world  and  of 
the  human  race.  It  will  have  to  deal  with  all  true  philosophy  and  all 
true  religion,  and  the  contact  of  these  with  false  philosophies  and  false 
religions  and  the  struggle  for  existence  between  the  two — the  false 
and  the  true.  Of  course,  I  have  not  attempted  in  my  puny  six  volumes 
to  go  into  the  treatment  of  all  this  vast  field.  My  work  covers  merely 
the  first  century  of  this  New  Dispensation ;  but  even  so  the  work,  as 
you  see,  is  necessarily  a  large  one,  and  needs  scope  for  its  treatment ; 
room  for  the  consideration  of  its  mighty  themes  and  the  correlation 
of  them  with  past,  present  and  future.  So  that  the  very  largeness  of  the 
theme  alone  would  justify  and  demand  a  large  work.  I  have  found 
the  scope  of  six  volumes  inconveniently  narrow  in  places  for  an  adequate 
treatment  of  some  phases  of  the  great  subject  in  hand.  There  are 
other  considerations  also  which  justify  the  employment  of  so  large  a 
treatment  of  the  subject  besides  mere  largeness  of  it. 

A  few  years  ago  a  critic  of  some  standing  in  the  Christian  world — 
he  was  secretary  of  a  large  group  of  so-called  Christian  churches — 
conceded  that  "the  Mormon  church  is  possessed  of  elements  of  great 
power.  These  elements  are  founded  in  its  principles  of  centralized 
power,  and  in  its  social  program."  He  said,  "there  is  no  real  menace 
in  the  Mormon  Church  to  our  (i.  e.  United  States)  political  institu- 
tions ;"  dangers  along  that  line  were  past.    And  then : 

"Mormonism  has  reached  the  zenith  of  its  supernatural  visions,  is  receding, 
gradually  fading  in  the  Mormon  consciousness  itself.  The  time  spirit  will  cure 
it  of  its  abnormalities.     It  will  die  amid  its  own  worshippers." 

"The  way  to  oppose  Mormonism  is  not  to  throw  mud  upon  it.  A  cam- 
paign of  detraction  only  helps  it  to  grow.  The  thing  to  do  is  to  treat  it  with 
candor  and  fairness.  *  *  *  It  must  fall  of  its  own,  weight,  if  it  is  so  to 
fall  at  all." 

Then  he  treats  us  to  this  reflection  with  its  implication : 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Our  little  systems  have  their  day ; 
They  have  their  day,  and  cease  to  be; 
They  are  but  broken  lights  of  Thee, 
And  thou,  O  Lord,  art  more  than  they." 

This  critic  is  Wm.  Oeschger,  Secretary  of  the  Nebraska  Christian 
churches  (State  Journal,  Nebraska,  Nov.  24,  1918). 

At  a  public  meeting  in  Reading,  Penn.,  a  lady  submitted  the  follow- 
ing question  to  me : 

"In  view  of  the  fact  that  the  drift  of  the  world's  thought  is  away  from 
acceptance  of  the  miraculous,  what  is  to  be  the  future  of  Mormonism?" 

The  question  is  a  thoughtful  one.  It  is  a  fact  that  the  trend  of 
the  world's  thought  is  away  from  acceptance  of  the  miraculous.  It 
is  also  true  that  Mormonism  had  its  birth  in  what  men  call  miracles; 
in  such  miracles  as  are  said  to  tax  the  credulity  of  the  mind  of  man 
to  accept,  and  of  modern  man  in  particular.  In  view  of  these  premises, 
then,  what  is  to  be  the  future  of  your  faith,  Latter-day  Saints?  The 
future  of  Mormonism?  Is  it  the  case  of  an  inflowing  tide  that  has 
carried  a  ship  far  up  a  gently  sloping  shore,  and  that  now  the  tide  ebbing, 
leaves  the  ship  beached  on  the  shore,  to  become  a  helpless  derelict  that 
in  time  must  perish  ? 

Another  suggestion:  A  recent  writer,  as  late  as  January,  1930, 
discusses  what  to  him  are  the  necessary  limitations  of  Mormonism. 
Permit  me  to  say  that  this  writer  knows  his  subject,  and  our  protagonists 
will  not  find  it  the  easiest  task  in  the  world  to  meet  all  his  criticism. 
This  writer  concedes  that  of  the  whole  group  of  religious  movements 
in  America  that  arose  about  the  same  time  that  Mormonism  had  its 
origin,  Mormonism  alone  has  survived;  that  is,  in  any  way  worth 
while,  and  is  today  a  really  "going  concern."  Then  he  asks,  this  being 
so,  "Why  then  has  not  God's  kingdom  overspread  the  Republic  ?"  His 
answer  is :  "Simply  because  it  is  self -limited."  And  he  argues  that 
matter  of  self-limitation  of  "Mormonism"  in  this  way : 

"The  quest  for  the  perfect  American  religion  could  be  successful  only 
on  the  lowest  level  of  intelligence.  Piety  and  business  could  only  be  completely 
fused  by  means  of  a  creed  too  ridiculous  for  any  widespread  acceptance.  *  *  * 
The  doctrines  of  Mormonism  are  indispensable  to  its  system." 

The  critic  is  right  on  that  point.  "The  doctrines  of  Mormonism 
are  indispensable  to  its  system."  Mormonism  must  be  wholly  accepted 
or  wholly  rejected.  Its  doctrines,  and  the  whole-hearted  acceptance  of 
them  is  indispensable  to  membership  in  its  system.  The  miraculous 
visions  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  miraculous  visitation  of  Moroni,  and  the 
miraculous  translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  fact  of  direct  and 
continuous  revelation  from  God,  all  must  be  accepted  or  Mormonism 
can  have  no  standing;  nor  can  anyone  have  a  standing  in  Mormonism 
without  acceptance  of  these  doctrines.   Then  our  author  proceeds : 

"If  they  [meaning  the  doctrines]  are  altered  or  rejected  in  any  particular, 
the  system  must  collapse !" 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


45 


Nothing. more  true  was  ever  said  of  Mormonism  than  that;  and  I 
hope  Latter-day  Saints  appreciate  the  fact  of  it.  Then  our  writer 
launches  his  thunderbolt : 

"And  they  (the  doctrines  of  Mormonism)  compose  a  body  of  belief  almost 
incredibly  absurd.  Mormonism  made  a  formidable  effort  to  include  all  the 
imbecile  dreams  that  were  contemporary  with  its  rise.  It  was  and  it  remains, 
at  once,  millennial  restorationist  and  perfectionist.  Fossilized  in  its  canons  is 
nearly  every  metaphysical,  theological  and  liturgical  insanity  of  the  American 
pentecost.  It  epitomizes  the  religious  nonsense  of  a  full  half  century.  It  was 
too  fundamentally  a  reaction,  as  creeds  of  restoration  must  necessarily  be,  so  that 
it  retains  notions  long  since  discarded  by  its  competitors.  A  body  of  beliefs 
as  absurd  and  grotesque  may  exist  on  a  small  scale  here  and  there,  in  Los 
Angeles  or  Zion  City,  but  none  so  grotesque  is  accepted  by  any  number  com- 
parable to  the  Mormons.," 

And  these  "absurd"  and  "grotesque"  miraculous  doctrines,  it  is 
argued,  will  constitute  the  limitations  of  Mormonism,  and  confine  its 
acceptance  to  a  few.  That  is  to  say,  according  to  this  view  Mormonism 
may  become  a  tolerated,  minor  sect,  but  never  will  be  a  world  movement 
— God's  kingdom,  overspreadjng  the  republic  and  the  world.  To  recur 
to  my  Reading,  Penn.,  lady's  question — for  involved  in  that,  by  impli- 
cation, is  the  same  argument  and  conclusion  as  in  this  American  Mer- 
cury writer's  discussion — "In  view  of  the  trend  of  modern  thought 
away  from  acceptance  of  the  miraculous,  what  is  to  be  the  future  of 
Mormonism  ?" 

Which  is  it  to  be,  Latter-day  Saints,  a  limited  but  tolerated  sect, 
or  a  world  movement?  A  beached  ship  on  the  shore — derelict  of  the 
receding  world-thought-tides,  or  the  kingdom  of  God  overspreading 
the  nations?  What  is  to  be  your  answer,  Oh  Church  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  to  these  criticisms  and  this  prediction  based  upon  your  alleged 
self-limitations,  which  are  relied  upon  as  marking  your  defeat  as  a 
world  movement? 

Again  what  is  to  be  your  answer?  My  answer  is — Your  history 
of  one  hundred  years  will  be  your  vindication ;  will  effectively  prove 
your  claims  to  the  world  movement  character  of  your  religion  and  your 
church.  Not  a  sect,  but  the  universal  religion  founded  upon  Jesus 
Christ — his  Gospel  and  the  New  Dispensation  of  it,  the  complement  and 
fulfilment  of  all  that  has  gone  before,  and  prophecy  of  what  shall  be 
hereafter.  To  make  this  appear,  however,  your  historic  statement,  your 
history  must  not  be  merely  a  recital  of  events.  The  events  must  be 
coordinated  and  so  linked  together  that  the  rationale  of  successive 
events  shall  be  made  apparent;  and  how  they  link  in  with  the  world 
movements  which  but  spell  out  God's  purposes  struggling  to  get  ex- 
pressed.   All  this  requires  ample  space — every  word  of  six  volumes! 

Above  all,  your  history  must  be  honest  and  fearless.  Not  mere 
eulogy  of  what  may  be  your  own  side,  and  a  convenient  silence,  or  a 
half  concealment  of  the  facts  and  consequences  that  make  against  you. 
If  it  be  the  duty  of  the  drama  and  acting  to  so  hold  the  mirror  up  to 
nature  as  "to  show  virtue  her  own  features,  scorn  her  own  image, 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  the  very  age  and  body  of  the  time  his  form  and  pressure,"  still 
more  is  it  the  duty  of  history  to  so  mirror  truth  and  only  truth.  All 
this  that  your  History  may  command  the  respect  of  mankind.  In  our 
case  the  History  must  be  so  full  and  frank  and  fair  that  truth  and  the 
spirit  of  truth  shall  be  what  sunlight  is  to  the  atmosphere,  so  permeating 
it  as  to  be  in  and  through  it  an  everywhere  present  spirit  of  truth,  as 
the  Spirit  of  God  is  everywhere  preserve  through  his  creations.  Such  a 
presence  that  can  no  more  be  separated  from  your  History  than  sun- 
light can  be  plucked  from  the  atmosphere.  Such  a  statement  of,  and 
such  a  treatment  of  the  great  truths  brought  forth  in  Century  One  of 
the  organized  existence  of  the  Church  of  the  New  Dispensation ;  and 
so  related  to  what  must  be  the  grand  purposes  of  an  All-wise  and 
All-loving  and  Just  and  Merciful  and  Righteous  Heavenly  Father,  that 
the  truth  will  stand  vindicated  and  self-evident  to  the  minds  of  the 
men  of  good  will  by  the  mere  statement  of  it,  largely  enough  accepted 
to  make  it  the  dominant  kingdom  of  truth.  Here  a  doctrine  of  our 
first  prophet,  Joseph  Smith,  helps  us  : 

"Every  word  that  proceedeth  from  the  mouth  of  God  has  such  an  influence 
over  the  mind  that  it  is  convincing  without  other  testimony.  Faith  cometh  by 
hearing." 

That  is  to  say,  Truth  has  a  native  power  of  its  own,  and  if  stated 
clearly  and  fully  it  will  be  its  own  witness. 

"No,"  said  Joseph  Smith,  so  sure  was  he  of  this  principle — "No, 
I  don't  want  anyone  to  tell  I  am  a  prophet,  or  attempt  to  prove  my 
word."  He  was  confident  of  the  self-evident  truth  of  the  spoken  word. 
This  being  true,  our  cause  shall  suffer  little  from  the  threat  of  self- 
limitations,  and  the  menace  of  unbelief  because  of  our  doctrines  being 
"absurd"  or  "grotesque,"  since  the  truth  of  them  may  be  established 
by  a  clear  and  effective  statement  of  them ;  the  truth  being  its  own  wit- 
ness. Tell  your  story,  preach  your  sermon.  Write  your  History  in 
the  very  spirit  of  truth ;  and  the  spirit  of  truth  will  rise  up  to  confirm  it ; 
"its  own  convincing  power  will  be  its  witness." 

I  have  so  tried  to  write  your  history. 

As  to  whether  Mormonism  will  be  merely  a  tolerated  sect,  or  a 
world  movement,  the  veritable  kingdom  of  God  to  spread  over  all 
nations,  it  but  remains  for  those  who  are  the  members  of  this  Church 
which  God  has  founded,  who  constitute  its  priesthood  and  its  member- 
ship ;  it  only  remains  for  them  to  keep  the  vision  splendid  before  them 
with  which  this  work  began ;  and  I  predict  a  world  movement,  not  a 
sect  will  be  its  character. 

God,  who  at  sundry  times  and  in  divers  manners  made  known  his 
plans  and  purposes  with  reference  to  man's  earth  life,  such  revelations 
being  known  as  dispensations  of  his  Gospel,  has  in  these  last  days 
made  known  that  these  successive  dispensations  have  come  through  the 
ages  as  an  intermittent  stream  flows  through  a  valley,  fed  at  times 
from  side  streams  coming  in  from  right  and  left.   Sometimes  the  river 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


47 


may  become  wholly  dry ;  then  the  river  springs  up  again  to  flow  for  a 
time  copiously,  with  life-giving  force,  only  to  sink  again  from  view. 
But  finally  God,  fulfilling  his  purposes  designed  from  the  first,  opens 
the  heavens  and  gives  such  floods  of  rain  that  so  start  the  stream  from 
all  its  sources,  that  it  shall  never  again  run  dry  or  spread  out  and  be 
lost  in  desert  sands.  It  will  constantly  widen  and  deepen  until  ulti- 
mately it  will  merge  with  the  ocean,  which  is  its  home.  So  God's 
dispensations  shall  be  gathered  and  flow  into  one,  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times.  Your  dispensation  and  mine,  meaning  the  one 
in  which  we  work ;  God's  dispensation,  really,  in  the  which  he  will 
gather  together  in  one  "all  things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven 
and  which  are  in  earth,  even  in  him." 

This,  then,  is  the  message  of  our  Church  voiced  from  Century  One 
of  our  organized  existence  to  the  world — the  incoming  of  the  final 
dispensation  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

"Hear,  O  Heavens  and  give  ear,  O  Earth,  for  God  hath  spoken !" 
The  veil  between  heaven  and  earth  has  been  rent  from  top  to  bottom. 
Heaven's  pavilion  is  taken  up,  and  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  his 
Son  are  revealed  anew. 

God's  plans  and  purposes  in  all  the  dispensations  are  made  known, 
there  has  been  a  unifying  of  the  truth  of  all  the  dispensations  of  God 
to  men  ward. 

The  everlasting  covenant,  of  which  the  blood  of  the  Christ  is 
both  sign  and  seal,  has  been  renewed. 

A  true  priesthood,  which  is  God's  power  and  authority  given 
to  man,  which  becomes  God  working  through  men,  has  been  conferred 
on  man  in  regular  order  of  succession. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  again,  and  for  the  last  time, 
been  set  up  and  made  the  depository  of  God's  truth  and  the  fulness 
of  it ;  and  has  been  given  the  missiqn  of  proclaiming  that  truth  and 
the  fulness  of  it  to  every  nation  and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people. 
Also  to  this  Church  has  been  given  the  high  mission  of  perfecting  the 
lives  of  those  who  receive  its  truth. 

The  gathering  of  all  Israel  has  been  proclaimed,  and  the  restora- 
tion of  Judah  to  Jerusalem  with  commandment  to  resume  his  national 
life. 

Joseph,  son  of  Jacob,  his  place  as  prince  in  Israel  has  been  made 
known ;  and  to  him  has  been  given  the  gathering  of  the  tribes,  to  receive 
their  blessings  at  the  hands  of  Ephraim,  preparatory  to  going  to  their 
own  and  final  lands  of  inheritance. 

The  Record  of  Joseph  in  the  hands  of  Ephraim,  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  has  been  revealed  and  translated  by  the  power  of  God,  and 
supplies  the  world  with  a  new  witness  for  the  Christ,  and  the  truth  and 
the  fulness  of  the  Gospel. 

The  Zion  of  God_.  the  capital  of  the  empire  of  the  Christ  in 
the  new  world,  the  place  of  it  is  revealed,  and  for  many  years  pro- 
claimed and  will  not  be  moved  out  of  its  place, 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Elias  who  held  the  keys  of  God's  Church  in  the  days  of  Abraham 
and  blessed  him,  has  restored  the  patriarchal  powers  and  graces  of 
the  priesthood,  to  link  together  the  families  of  men  in  patriarchal 
order,  from  now  to  the  time  of  the  end. 

Elijah,  translated  to  heaven  without  tasting  death,  and  therefore 
made  the  man  of  two  worlds,  heaven  and  earth,  and  by  that  token 
capable  of  working  in  each  and  both,  has  restored  the  keys  of  the  long 
promised,  priesthood  that  turns  the  hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers, 
and  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children.  In  this  first  century  of 
existence  for  the  Church,  and  in  consequence  of  this,  Elijah's,  mission, 
more  than  seven  millions  of  baptisms  for  the  dead  have  been  per- 
formed, and  more  than  fifteen  millions  of  ordinances  (including  the 
baptisms)  have  been  performed  for  the  dead.  Seven  temples  have  been 
erected  in  various  parts  of  the  land  of  Zion,  for  a  continuance  of  this 
holy  work,  and  more  will  yet  be  builded.  Think  what  that  work  may 
be  when  there  are  a  hundred  temples  instead  of  seven ! 

Stakes  of  Zion  are  multiplied  in  the  land  of  Zion,  in  Canada,  in 
Mexico,  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  also  along  the 
Pacific  slope;  and  soon,  as  our  first  Prophet  declared,  and  but  three 
months  before  his  death,  cn  the  Atlantic  seaboard  likewise  would 
stakes  of  Zion  be  organized,  naming  specifically  stakes  of  Zion  to 
be  established  in  Boston  and  New  York,  and  other  great  cities.  The 
Atlantic  ocean  but  washes  the  shores  of  Zion  land  on  the  east,  as  the 
Pacific  ocean  washes  the  shores  of  Zion  land  on  the  west;  and  the 
great  interior  valleys  of  the  Mississippi  and  his  mighty  tributaries, 
will  also  be  places  for  stakes  of  Zion,  and  the  Gulf  slopes — the  south- 
land— as  well. 

Zion  is  lengthening  her  cords  and  is  strengthening  her  stakes, 
and  multiplying  her  altars  to  the  true  God  by  the  erection  of  temples, 
stake,  houses,  and  chapels  throughout  the  land.  It  seems  to  me  that 
the  chief  activity  of  our  President,  Heber  J.  Grant,  in  late  years,  has 
become  the  dedicating  of  places  of  worship  throughout  and  in  all 
parts  of  the  land  of  Zion. 

And  these  things  will  increase  more  and  more.  And  while,  as 
the  prophets  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  foresaw,  the  possession  of  the 
saints  upon  the  land  of  promise  would  be  few,  and  scattered  upon  all 
the  face  of  the  promised  land  (I  Nephi,  chapter  xiv:12),  yet  will  they 
be  multiplied  until  they  shall  become  a  mighty  people ;  and  from  among 
them  will  arise  those  who  shall  be  able  to  move  in  upon  and  redeem 
Zion,  the  centerplace  thereof,  and  fulfill  God's  word  and  purposes  as 
to  the  mission  of  the  capital  city  of  the  Christ's  spiritual,  growing 
empire  in  America. 

May  men  truthfully  call  this  a  work  of  narrow  limitations?  The 
business  and  work  of  a  merely  tolerated  sect — one  of  the  broken  lights 
of  God  ?  Or  is  it  the  beginning  of  a  world  movement  for  the  decreed 
fulfilment  of  all  the  purposes  of  God?  A  world  movement,  I  say,  for 
the  completion  of  God's  purposes  with  reference  to  the  establishment 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 


49 


of  Zion,  the  salvation  of  men,  the  redemption  of  the  earth  and  the 
fulfilment  of  all  the  words  of  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began ! 

A  PRAYER 

And  now,  O  God,  the  Eternal  Father!  Here  as  to  an  altar,  I 
bring  this  work  of  mine,  and  dedicate  it  unto  thee  and  to  thy  cause. 
If  there  is  any  way  of  excellence  in  it,  I  am  sure,  it  is  of  thee,  and 
unto  thee  belongs  all  glory  and  all  praise  and  honor.  As  thy  dear 
Son,  the  Christ,  in  the  council  before  the  world  began,  when  accepting 
the  mission  to  redeem  the  world,  said,  "Father,  the  glory  be  thine;" 
so  now,  in  this  so  infinitely  smaller  matter,  but  I  trust  in  that  same 
spirit,  I  say  in  the  presence  of  all  these  people,  Father,  the  glory  be 
thine  for  this  work  accomplished. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  bouquet  of  beautiful  flowers  to  my  left  was  sent  to  me  by 
Mr.  Gus  L.  Becker  of  Ogden.  With  the  flowers  came  a  letter  in 
which  he  states  that  during  his  forty  years  of  residence  here  he  has 
discovered  that  we  are  a  God-fearing,  honorable,  upright  people. 

The  bouquet  just  behind  me  was  sent  by  the  various  General 
Boards  of  the  auxiliary  associations.  It  is  composed  of  one  hundred 
roses. 

A  solo  and  chorus,  "I  have  seen  my  Maker  face  to  face,"  was 
sung  by  Rilla  Wilson  and  the  choir. 

After  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Henry  H.  Blood, 
President  of  the  North  Davis  Stake  of  Zion,  Conference  adjourned 
until  10  o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  April  7th. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  meeting  began  promptly  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday,  April 
7th,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  furnished  by  the 
Provo  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  Gerrit  de  Jong. 

Opening  selection  by  the  choir  and  congregation,  "O  say,  what 
is  truth?" 

Elder  Lewis  Anderson,  President  of  the  Manti  Temple,  offered 
the  invocation. 

A  sacred  solo,  "I  sought  the  Lord,"  was  sung  by  Anna  Hinckley. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  had  hoped  yesterday  to  have  time  to  read  a  number  of  telegrams 
that  we  have  received.  I  had  also  hoped  to  hear  from  the  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  who  presides  over  all  of  the  members  of  the 
Lesser  Priesthood — Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons — but  it  is  a  difficult 
matter  of  course  to  concentrate  one's  thoughts  and  stay  within  a  limited 
time. 

CABLE  MESSAGE  FROM  ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

We  shall  not  attempt  to  read  the  many  telegrams  that  we  have 
received  from  individuals,  including  leading  business  men  in  the  United 
States  and  in  Europe,  but  I  would  like  to  read  a  cablegram  from  one 
of  the  absent  members  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  It  is  from  Liverpool, 
dated  April  4th : 

"First  Presidency:  The  Church  members  of  the  European  Missions  number 
nearly  thirty  thousand  with  the  missionaries  about  seven  hundred  strong,  unitedly 
express  joyous  gratitude  for  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  and  the  present  prosperity 
of  the  Church,  and  extend  to  you  and  the  whole  Church  felicitations  upon  this 
happy  occasion.  May  the  Gospel,  true  to  its  divine  purpose  and  history,  spread 
over  the  earth  to  make  multitudes  glad  through  righteousness. 

John  A.  Widtsoe." 

FELICITATIONS  FROM  GOVERNOR  OF  WYOMING 

We  have  a  telegram  from  Governor  Frank  C.  Emerson  of 
W  yoming. 

"Heber  J.  Grant,  President,  Mormon  Church,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

"Please  accept  my  felicitations  upon  the  centennial  celebration  of  the 
founding  of  the  Mormon  Church.  From  the  time  of  the  arrival  of  Brigham 
Young  and  his  band  of  courageous  followers  in  the  Salt  Fake  Valley  the  Mormon 
people  have  had  a  leading  part  in  the  welfare  and  development  of  this  western 
country.  We  appreciate  their  contributions  to  the  progress  of  the  commonwealth 
of  Wyoming.    It  gives  me  pleasure  to  designate  Honorable  L,  T,  Qldroyd,  our 


( 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


51 


Commissioner  of  Agriculture,  to  represent  Wyoming  upon  this  auspicious  oc- 
casion. 

Cordially  yours, 

Frank  C.  Emerson, 

Governor  of  Wyoming." 

OTHER  TELEGRAPHIC  CONGRATULATIONS 

"Salt  Lake  City,  April  5th,  1930,  President  Heber  J.  Grant :  The  Knights  of 
Columbus  of  Utah  extends  congratulations  on  the  centennial  conference  and 
wishes  your  people  a  successful  meeting. 

Vere  L.  McCarthy, 

State  Deputy. 
Dr.  J.  J.  Galligan, 
Master  of  Fourth  Degree." 

A  cablegram  dated  Capetown,  South  Africa,  April  6th,  arrived 
before  the  conference  meetings  yesterday.  They  had  held  their  services 
over  there  on  the  6th  of  April  and  we  received  the  word  after  they 
were  over.  It  is  from  Don  Mack  Dalton,  President  of  the  South  African 
Mission : 

"Our  services  had  great  spirit.  We  join  you  in  remembrance  and  reverence. 
Missionaries  well." 

From  Holger  M.  Larsen,  Copenhagen,  Denmark: 

"Elders  and  Saints  in  Denmark  send  congratulations  on  this  centennial 
anniversary." 

From  Edward  P.  Kimball,  Dresden,  Germany: 

"Missionaries  and  Saints  German-Austrian  Mission  greet  you  in  love  with 
Hosanna." 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  splendid  gathering  of  the 
saints  this  beautiful  morning,  and  the  wonderful  gatherings  that  were 
held  yesterday.  I  rejoice  in  the  favor  that  is  granted  to  me,  in  common 
with  you,  to  take  part  in  the  exercises  of  this  remarkable  conference. 
I  feel  deeply  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  am  privileged  to  live  in  this  day 
and  age,  and  to  enjoy  the  confidence  of  my  brethren  of  the  General 
Authorities,  and  of  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  presidencies  of 
stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards,  and  all  the  members  of  the  Church,  so  far 
as  I  may  be  worthy  of  that  confidence.  I  can  assure  you  that  I  desire 
to  live  to  be  worthy  of  it.  I  desire  to  serve  you,  because  everyone  who 
is  called  to  any  position  in  this  Church  is  a  servant  of  the  people. 

EXTENT  OF  PRIESTHOOD  MEMBERSHIP 

When  the  priesthood  were  gathered  here  yesterday,  and  when  it 
was  not  possible  for  all  to  attend  who  desired  to  obtain  seats,  I  was 
thinking  of  the  problem  that  was  before  us— the  First  Presidency  and 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  of  us  who  had  the  seating  of  this  building  in  hand — as  to  how  we 
could  accommodate  those  who  desired  to  be  here.  There  are  150,000 
members  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church.  Of  course  not  nearly  all 
of  them  could  be  here  on  that  occasion,  although  many  of  them  would 
have  liked  to  come.  Of  those  who  are  presiding  officers  of  the  stakes  and 
wards  and  of  the  various  quorums  of  the  priesthood,  there  are  fourteen 
thousand — practically  double  the  seating  capacity  of  this  building,  as 
at  present.  There  is  room  for  only  six  thousand  in  the  body  of  the  hall. 
Consequently  it  was  necessary  to  cut  down,  very  extensively,  the  number 
allotted  to  each  stake  of  Zion.  As  a  result,  a  large  proportion  of  those 
who  were  seated  here  are  the  presiding  officers  of  the  stakes  and  wards 
and  other  high  priests,  as  well  as  seventies  and  elders.  There  were  not 
as  many  of  the  Aaronic  priesthood  as  we  should  have  liked  to  see,  and 
as  could  have  been  seated  here,  had  there  been  room  for  them  to  be 
seated.  I  am  sure  that  there  could  have  been  two  or  three  times  the 
capacity  of  this  building  of  Aaronic  priesthood  members  who  would 
have  been  glad  to  be  here  on  that  occasion,  because  they  appreciated 
the  memorable  occasion,  and  what  a  tremendous  influence  it  would  have 
in  their  lives  to  take  part  in  this  centennial  celebration. 

FRUITS  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  desire  to  read  to  you  two  or  three  quotations.  One  of  these  I 
was  reminded  of  by  the  message  of  the  First  Presidency  yesterday. 
When  the  Savior  was  delivering  that  remarkable  Sermon  upon  the 
Mount,  among  other  things  he  said: 

"By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them.  Every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good 
fruit,  but  a  corrupt  tree  bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring 
forth  good  fruit." 

I  am  reminded  also  of  the  wise  man  Solomon,  who  had  been 
trained  up  in  righteousness  by  his  father,  King  David,  and  had  become 
king  of  Israel  under  the  most  prosperous  conditions,  but  who  went 
astray  and  was  led  into  transgression  by  reason  of  the  luxuries  he 
enjoyed.  Toward  the  close  of  his  life,  after  having  tasted  the  bitter 
as  well  as  the  sweet  of  life,  he  wrote  the  book  of  Ecclesiastes,  and  in 
the  closing  verses  of  that  book  he  makes  the  following  declaration: 

"Let  us  hear  the  conclusion  of  the  whole  matter :  Fear  God,  and  keep  his 
commandments:  for  this  is  the  whole  duty  of  man." 

Now  there  is  one  other  quotation  I  would  like  to  present  to  you, 
and  that  is  from  one  of  the  Lectures  on  Faith,  contained  in  the  fore- 
part of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  : 

A  religion  that  does  not  require  the  sacrifice  of  all  things  never  has  power 
sufficient  to  produce  the  faith  necessary  unto  life  and  salvation." 

GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Frequent  reference  has  been  made  already  to  the  humble  beginning 
of  this  work.    I  am  reminded  of  its  commencement  in  the  pleasant 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


53 


homestead  of  Peter  Whitmer,  in  the  township  of  Fayette,  located  in 
that  beautiful  western  section  of  New  York  state — a  section  of  rolling 
hills  and  lovely  lakes.  While  those  six  men  were  met  together  I 
believe  they  appreciated  to  some  extent  the  tremendous  power  that  was 
in  the  work ;  but  whether  or  not  they  visualized  its  growth  and  develop- 
ment from  that  time  to  this  is  a  question.  When  we  think  of  those 
humble  conditions  in  that  obscure  village,  and  then  realize  that  today 
there  are  approximately  seven  hundred  thousand  members  in  the 
Church,  located  in  all  the  states  of  this  Union,  in  Canada  and  Mexico, 
in  South  America,  in  practically  every  civilized  nation  and  on  the 
Pacific  islands,  we  comprehend  what  a  remarkable  growth  it  has  had. 
Yet  in  all  its  development  it  has  not  lost  in  the  least  that  humble  faith 
and  devoted  spirit  which  characterized  its  beginning.  When  we  sense 
also  that  in  the  hundred  years  that  have  elapsed  since  the  beginning  of 
this  Church  the  most  remarkable  developments  have  occurred  in  the 
progress  of  civilization,  and  with  those  developments  the  Church  has 
kept  pace.  It  has  met  and  helped  to  solve  the  problems  of  humanity  and 
has  presented  divine  truths  which  have  changed  and  molded  the  spiritual 
thought  throughout  the  world  for  good.  The  doctrines  declared  by  the 
Church  have  been  constructive  in  their  nature.  They  have  not  tended 
to  cause  doubt  or  disbelief  in  the  hearts  of  men.  On  the  contrary  they 
have  helped  to  bring  men  to  a  realization  of  the  fundamental  truths 
which  have  been  declared  by  prophets  and  seers  in  all  dispensations. 

EFFECTS  OF  "MORMONISM" 

"Mormonism,"  it  is  said,  and  well  said  I  think,  enters  into  every 
phase  of  the  lives  of  its  members.  It  molds  their  characters  in  con- 
formity with  these  principles.  It  enters  into  their  habits  and  influences 
them.  It  affects  their  physical  beings  and  their  mental  development. 
It  affects  their  hearts  and  their  desires  toward  their  fellow  men. 

.  What  are  some  of  the  effects  of  "Mormonism?"  What  have  been 
some  of  the  effects  in  all  the  years  that  it  has  existed?  I  would  like 
to  discuss  with  you  for  a  few  moments  a  few  of  the  practical  things  that 
may  be  evidenced  in  the  lives,  the  habits  and  the  characters  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  There  are  various  things  by  which  the  faith  and  sin- 
cerity of  the  people  may  be  measured.  Particularly,  there  are  three 
ways  that  I  should  like  to  consider  with  you  wherein  the  devotion 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  has  been  evidenced  in  their  lives.  It  is 
said,  as  was  stated  by  President  Nibley  yesterday,  that  "sacrifice 
brings  forth  the  blessings  of  heaven."  It  is  declared  in  the 
quotation  I  have  read  that  any  religion  that  cannot  require  the 
sacrifice  of  all  things  never  has  power  sufficient  to  produce  the  faith 
necessary  unto  life  and  salvation.  If  Abraham  had  not  had  the  faith 
necessary  to  conform  to  the  command  given  him  of  the  Lord  to  sacrifice 
his  own  son,  Isaac,  undoubtedly  he  would  not  have  been  able  and  worthy 
to  receive  the  great  blessings  which  our  Eternal  Father  gave  to  him. 
His  obedience  to  that  command,  even  though  it  was  not  required  at  his 
hands,  proved  his  devotion,  his  loyalty,  and  his  entire  and  complete 
faith  in  God. 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  accepted  the  Gospel  in  faith, 
and  with  a  real  desire  to  serve  the  Lord,  have  conformed  to  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel,  even  though  they  might  require  what  would  appear 
to  be  sacrifice  on  their  part ;  and  yet  I  am  sure  that  we  all  appreciate 
the  fact  that  every  sacrifice  is  a  blessing  in  disguise.  It  is  a  means  of 
progress  and  development  for  every  one  of  us. 

RESTRAINT  OF  PHYSICAL  APPETITES 

One  of  the  ways  whereby  men  may  evidence  their  faith,  integrity 
and  sincerity  in  their  religion,  is  by  restraining  and  controlling  their 
physical  appetites,  in  conformity  with  the  principles  which  are  offered 
for  their  welfare.  In  the  Word  of  Wisdom  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
the  finest  set  of  rules  that  is  to  be  found,  I  think,  anywhere,  affecting 
the  physical  being  of  the  people,  and  also  affecting  their  mental  progress 
and  development. 

Not  long  ago  a  member  remarked  to  me  that  he  had  been  in  the 
East  and  had  met  a  prominent  business  man  in  New  York,  who  had 
inquired  of  him  regarding  the  Mormon  people.  Among  other  things 
this  local  man  had  told  him  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  of  the 
stipulations  and  requirements  contained  therein.  The  man  said  to  him : 
"Do  your  people  observe  that  set  of  principles  and  instructions?"  He 
replied:  "Not  entirely,  but  to  a  considerable  extent."  "Well,"  said 
the  man,  "if  your  people  conform  to  those  instructions,  they  will  become 
the  finest  people  in  the  United  States  or  anywhere  else  in  the  world,  in 
physical  vigor  and  in  mental  development."  The  Lord  has  said  to  us 
that  these  instructions  are  given  for  the  weak  and  the  weakest  of  all 
saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints,  and  when  the  Lord  says  that  to 
us,  it  ought  to  be  sufficient,  whether  it  be  in  the  way  of  a  .suggestion 
or  a  commandment.  It  means  that  when  the  Lord  gives  a  commandment 
it  is  intended  for  the  progress,  the  welfare,  and  the  blessing  of  those 
to  whom  it  is  given. 

FAITH  .PRODUCES   WILLING  OBEDIENCE 

During  all  these  years,  the  Latter-day  Saints  have,  in  large 
measure,  observed  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  There  are  some  people  who 
complain  that  no  church  has  any  right  to  direct  what  one  shall  or  shall 
not  eat  or  drink.  On  the  other  hand,  if  we  accept  the  proposition  that 
spiritually  we  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  that  these  bodies  are 
created  in  his  image,  that  the  Holy  Spirit  should  enter  and  be  a  part  of 
our  tabernacles  and  inspire  us,  and  that  the  Lord  expects  of  us  that  we 
shall  be  physically  sound,  it  is  by  all  means  important  that  we  should 
learn  to  control  and  regulate  our  appetites  and  desires  and  keep  these 
bodies  clean  in  order  that  we  may  be  entitled  to  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  and  draw  near  to  him.  But  there  is  no  compulsion  in  this  or  any 
other  principle  of  the  Gospel.  We  have  our  free  agency.  If  we  obey, 
we  gain  the  benefits  and  the  privileges  accruing  therefrom. 

RESULTS  OF  OBSERVANCE  OF  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

Now  what  has  been  the  result  of  the  observance  of  the  Word  of 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


55 


Wisdom  on  the  part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints?  I  cannot  tell  you  in 
so  many  words,  but  I  can  quote  to  you  some  of  the  statistics  that  come 
into  our  office  with  regard  to  the  vital  conditions  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  We  cannot  say,  for  instance,  how  many  members  of  the 
Church  have  cancer.  But  we  can  say  how  many  members  of  the 
Church  die  of  cancer,  and  that  is  a  very  important  thing  among  people 
today,  because  cancer  is  a  serious  disease ;  and  so  with  various  other 
maladies.  The  death  rate  among,  the  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  last  few 
years  has  averaged  about  7.5  per  thousand.  The  average  death  rate 
of  the  United  States  registered  area,  which  includes  the  most  progressive 
states,  is  11.4  or  rnore  per  thousand.  In  other  words,  the  Latter-dav 
Saints'  death  rate  is  only  about  two-thirds  of  the  death  rate  throughout 
the  United  States. 

ANALYSIS  OF  RESULTS 

Let  us  analyze  that  a  little  farther,  as  to  the  causes  of  death. 
Among  other  things  we  find  that  in  the  matter  of  what  are  known  as 
epidemic,  endemic  and  infectious  diseases,  the  death  rate  in  the  United 
States  is  more  than  double  what  it  is  among  the  people  of  this  Church. 
The  Lord  has  declared  to  us  that  scourges  should  come  over  the  earth, 
and  that  if  we  will  observe  his  commandments  we  shall  escape  those 
scourges.  Not  entirely,  probably,  because  we  are  all  subject  to  death. 
In  a  measure,  we  are  all  subject  to  diseases.  But  as  I  see  it,  through 
the  observance  of  the  Word  |pf  Wisdom,  we  are  promised  at  least 
partial  escape  from  many  of  these  scourges.  In  the  matter  of  diabetes, 
which  is  also  a  disease  of  some  considerable  concern  among  mankind, 
the  death  rate  in  the  Church  is  approximately  half  that  of  the  United 
States  average. 

EFFECTS  OF  NARCOTICS 

It  is  recognized  that  tobacco  and  spirituous  liquors  are  causes,  at 
least  in  part,  of  cancer,  and  in  this  respect  we  find  that  the  death  rate 
in  the  Church  as  compared  to  the  United  States  is  less  than  half. 
In  the  matter  of  nervous  diseases,  it  is  recognized  also  that  certain 
stimulants  affect  the  nervous  system.  The  death  rate  from  diseases 
of  the  nervous  system  in  the  Church  is  less  than  half  that  of  the  United 
States.  In  the  matter  of  kidney  and  kindred  diseases,  which  are  also 
affected  by  the  use  of  stimulants,  the  death  rate  throughout  the  Church 
is  about  one-fourth  that  of  other  parts  of  the  country.  The  death  rate 
from  diseases  of  the  heart  and  circulatory  system  in  the  Church  is  ap- 
proximately one-half  that  of  the  United  States  average. 

Are  not  these  records  ample  evidence  to  you  that  the  observance  of 
the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  worth  while  ?  Are  not  these  the  fruits  of  a  good 
tree?  Of  course,  we  ought  to  observe  this  or  any  principle  because  the 
Lord  has  made  it  known  to  us.  That  ought  to  be  sufficient,  but  when 
we  examine  the  effects  produced  we  find  that  we  are  fully  justified, 
from  a  material  standpoint,  in  observing  it. 

RESISTANCE  TO  MORAL  TEMPTATIONS 

There  is  another  way  in  which  men  and  women  can  demonstrate 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


their  faith  and  sincerity  and  that  is  by  resisting  immoral  tendencies, 
by  refusing  to  do  those  things  which  we  have  been  advised  are  vicious 
and  contrary  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  as  affecting  relations  between 
the  sexes.  The  influences  of  today  throughout  the  world  are  such  as  to 
undermine  moral  standards.  Virtue  and  chastity  are  apparently  not 
considered  of  great  concern.  The  Latter-day  Saints  recognize  the  fact 
that  strict  morality  is  of  the  utmost  importance.  We  have  been  taught 
to  abhor  immorality  and  unchastity.  The  Lord  has  declared  to  us  that 
those  who  practice  sexual  transgressions  will  degenerate,  and  cannot 
retain  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  is  the  spirit  of  life  and  truth  and 
virtue. 

BENEFITS  OF  HIGH  MORAL  STANDARDS 

Now  what  are  the  evidences  as  to  the  benefits  of  the  observance 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints  of  high  moral  standards  as  compared  with 
other  people  ?  I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  give  you  certain 
government  statistics.  The  Church  does  not  keep  record  of  births  out 
of  wedlock,  but  the  government  records  for  Utah  and  Idaho,  where 
the  majority  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  live,  as  compared  with  the  rest 
of  the  United  States,  show  that  the  illegitimate  birth  rate  in  each  of  these 
two  states  is  less  than  one-third.  And  that  is  true  also  of  still-births  out 
of  wedlock.  Is  that  any  evidence  to  you  as  to  the  benefits  of  the 
observance  of  the  declarations  of  God  and  the  teachings  by  the  leaders 
of  this  Church  with  regard  to  the  proper  relations  between  the  sexes? 

THE  MARRIAGE  RELATION 

Then  taking  the  other  phase  of  that  relation,  that  is,  marriage, 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  taught  continually  that  marriage  is  a 
sacred  obligation,  and  that  it  should  be  undertaken,  not  only  for  this 
life  but  for  eternity  as  well.  Mutual  respect  and  consideration  between 
husband  and  wife,  and  continuance  in  the  marriage  relation,  are,  like- 
wise, evidences  of  the  faith  and  uprightness  of  the  members  of  the 
Church.  The  bearing  of  children  and  the  proper  training  of  those 
children  is  enjoined  as  a  responsibility  that  every  married  couple  should 
undertake.  The  proper  training  of  children,  as  well  as  the  bringing 
of  them  into  the  world,  is  of  great  importance. 

MARITAL  STANDARDS 

What  are  the  results  of  this  training  among  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
comparatively  ?  We  find  that  the  marriage  rate  throughout  the  Church 
as  compared  with  the  government  statistics  for  the  nation,  is  about 
43%  greater.  The  birth  rate  throughout  the  Church  is  about  45% 
higher  than  that  of  the  United  States  generally.  The  infant  mortality 
rate  in  the  Church  is  approximately  62%  that  of  the  United  States. 
It  is  interesting  to  note,  further,  that  the  divorce  rate  throughout  the 
Church  is  only  about  40%  of  the  United  States  average,  and  that  the 
divorce  rate  of  those  who  were  married  in  the  temple  is  only  about  18% 
that  of  the  United  States,  or  about  43%  of  the  total  divorces  in  the 
Church.    Isn't  that  evidence  also  of  the  real  benefits  denved  from  the 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


57 


observance  of  these  divine  instructions?  Those  who  are  married 
properly,  who  have  taken  upon  them  these  covenants  in  the  temples 
and  have  seriously  and  with  due  appreciation  of  the  responsibility, 
promised  to  maintain  this  bond  in  affection  not  only  for  this  life  but 
for  eternity,  have  been  so  impressed  with  this  obligation  that  they  are 
able  to  live  together  in  love  and  joy  and  peace. 

FAITH   EVIDENCED  BY  LIBERAL  GIVING 

There  is  one  other  way  that  I  would  like  to  refer  to  briefly  whereby, 
it  seems  to  me,  the  faith  and  sincerity  of  the  members  is  clearly  shown. 
It  is  said  that  a  man's  pocket-book  is  very  near  to  his  heart.  I  am  told 
that  Michiavelli,  a  diplomat  engaged  in  Italian  affairs  of  state  in  the 
middle  ages,  a  keen,  wily  schemer,  and  politician,  expressed  this  state- 
ment— whether  it  be  true  or  not — "You  may  kill  their  fathers,  you  may 
take  away  their  wives  and  daughters,  you  may  destroy  their  brothers, 
and  they  will  forgive  you,  but  you  dare  not  touch  their  pocket  books." 
That  indicates  his  idea,  at  least,  as  to  how  precious  one's  pocket  book 
was.  But  when  men  and  women  will  give  liberally  and  consistently  of 
their  means  and  of  their  time  for  the  welfare  of  their  fellow  men,  it 
is  surely  an  evidence  of  their  faith  and  sincerity.  The  true  Latter-day 
Saints  have  been  and  are  giving  liberally  and  devotedly  through  the 
observance  of  the  law  of  tithing  and  the  making  of  donations  for  the 
poor  and  for  other  purposes.  They  have  shown,  I  think,  a  remarkable 
spirit  of  giving  of  their  means,  and  of  their  time  and  labor,  because  they 
understand  that  these  are  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

INDIVIDUAL  GROWTH 

What  are  the  results?  Well,  in  an  individual  way,  the  result  has 
been  to  overcome  sordid  selfishness,  produce  loyalty  and  exhibit  more 
positive  faith  in  God  and  his  work  in  the  hearts  of  those  who  have 
observed  these  things.  Brotherly  kindness  has  increased.  Financial 
integrity  has  been  promoted.  Individual  honesty  has  been  strengthened, 
and  the  cooperative  spirit  developed.  Men  become  more  charitable. 
The  finer  qualities  which  make  for  character,  and  enhance  peace  and 
joy  and  love  in  the  earth  are  brought  out.  The  spirit  of  service  which 
makes  for  greater  community  welfare  is  being  encouraged. 

Then,  in  a  spiritual  way,  what  are  the  effects?  The  tremendous 
missionary  work  that  the  Church  has  carried  on,  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  to  mankind  everywhere,  has  been  made  possible  not  only  by  the 
observance  of  the  principle  of  tithing,  but  by  the  giving  of  time  and 
additional  means  individually  by  the  missionaries  and  through  their 
parents. 

MATERIAL  PROGRESS 

Again,  in  a  material  way,  what  has  been  produced  ?  The  building 
of  a  great  number  of  community  buildings,  of  temples  and  of  ward 
and  stake  meetinghouses.  Further,  there  is  the  large  Church  educational 
program,  and  the  extensive  service  rendered  in  the  care  of  the  poor. 
I  think  there  is  no  other  people  anywhere  that  is  doing  as  much  pro- 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


portionately,  in  the  way  of  erecting  fine  places  of  worship  and  social 
centers.  Also  the  effect  is  to  develop  in  the  members  the  spirit  of 
thrift  and  the  desire  and  determination  to  meet  their  obligations 
manfully  and  provide  for  their  needs.  The  Church  is  undertaking  to 
qualify  its  people  as  a  whole  to  secure  greater  equality  and  mutual 
consideration  so  that  everyone,  as  far  as  possible,  shall  properly  develop. 
It  causes  everyone  to  seek  to  increase  his  or  her  earning  capacity ;  not 
only  for  their  own  welfare  but  that  they  may  be  able  to  help  the 
Church  in  larger  measure  and  to  be  of  greater  usefulness  in  the  com- 
munity.   All  of  these  things  result  therefrom. 

RENEW  OUR  COVENANTS 

Now,  in  that  which  has  been  presented  here,  it  is  not  intended  to 
boast  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  desire  has  been  to  show  that  the 
observance  of  these  principles  produces  lasting  blessings  in  the  lives  of 
those  who  have  faith.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  reached  the 
end  of  this  first  century  of  the  Gospel  restoration  gloriously,  and  stand 
on  the  threshold  of  the  second,  which  is  fraught  with  even  greater 
events  than  have  occurred  heretofore.  Shall  we  not  here  and  now  renew 
our  covenants  with  the  Lord,  and  solemnly  pledge  ourselves  individually 
and  unitedly  to  serve  God  and  keep  all  his  commandments,  to  prepare 
for  sacrifice  and  bring  forth  the  fruits  of  right  living?  May  the  Lord 
help  every  one  of  us  to  do  this,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  read  the  following  letter  and  message 
from  Elder  Reed  Smoot : 

March  29,  1930. 

"President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
47  East  South  Temple  Street, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Dear  President  Grant : 

"As  you  are  aware,  it  is  impossible  for  me  to  attend  the  April  Conference. 
I  regret  it  more  than  words  >can  express.  I  enclose  you  a  short  statement,  which 
I  would  like  to  have  you  present  to  the  Conference  if  agreeable  to  you. 

"May  God's  blessings  ever  attend  you  and  may  the  coming  Conference  be 
one  of  the  great  epochs  in  the  history  of  the  Church  is  my  desire  and  prayer. 

Your  brother, 

(Signed)  Reed  Smoot." 

Apostle  Reed  Smoot,  who  is  unavoidably  detained  by  his  duties 
in  the  nation's  capital,  sends  greeting  to  this  conference  his  most 
cordial  good  wishes  and  a  message  in  these  words : 

ANNOUNCEMENT  OF  TRUTH   IN   THE  RESURRECTION 

Ages  ago,  when  the  Son  of  God,  in  mortal  tabernacle,  stood  before 
a  human  judgment  seat  in  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  the  Roman  procurator 
asked  him,  "What  is  Truth?" 

That  query  has  been  of  vital  significance  to  mankind  in  all  the 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


59 


succeeding  ages,  and  was  never  more  vital  than  at  this  very  time  and 
on  this  present  occasion.  Only  a  few  days  after  the  scene  in  the 
Roman  court,  visitors  to  an  empty  sepulchre,  seeking  to  view  the  body 
of  the  crucified  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  were  accosted  by  a  heavenly  mes- 
senger who  said  concerning  him :  "He  is  not  here  :  for  he  is  risen."  The 
angel's  words  were  the  announcement  of  a  wonderful  Truth,  of  para- 
mount importance  to,  all  mankind.  The  resurrection  of  the  Redeemer 
and  Savior  of  the  world  had  come  to  pass. 

.    TRUTH  REVEALED  THROUGH  JOSEPH  SMITH 

More  than  one  hundred  years  ago,  to  specify  as  to  time  and  place, 
in  the  spring  of  1820,  near  the  town  of  Palmyra,  state  of  New  York, 
there  came  a  divinely  manifested  vision  to  a  young  man,  Joseph  Smith, 
who  was  of  Israel's  birthright  heritage  and  who  earnestly  sought  the 
truth.  That  vision  was  the  appearance  of  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
his  Son,  the  resurrected  Jesus  of  Nazareth.  Pointing  to  the  other  heav- 
enly Personage,  God  gave  witness :  "This  is  my  Beloved  Son,  hear  him." 
It  was  the  divine  revelation  in  this  age  of  the  resurrected  Christ.  It 
was  the  Truth.  Multitudes  in  Palestine  and  adjacent  countries  had  no 
knowledge  of  or  belief  in  the  resurrection  on  the  day  of  its  first  an- 
nouncement, but  its  truth  has  permeated  the  ages  since  then  and  has 
brought  life,  and  hope,  and  joy,  to  myriads  of  our  fellowmen.  Mul- 
titudes in  this  and  other  lands  had  no  knowledge  of  or  belief  in  the 
revelation  of  the  resurrected  Redeemer  to  the  young  man  Joseph  Smith 
on  the  day  of  its  occurrence,  'but  its  truth  today  is  permeating  people 
in  all  lands,  and  will  grow  to  a  perfect  knowledge  in  the  due  time 
of  the  Lord,  because  that  revelation  is  God  Almighty's  Truth,  and  will 
prevail. 

Some  years  later,  in  May,  1829,  there  came  the  restoration  of  the 
Lord's  priesthood  authority  to  administer  the  required  ordinances  of 
the  Gospel ;  and  in  the  next  year  there  followed  the  publication  of  the 
divinely  revealed  word  known  as  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  event 
of  which  we  celebrate  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  at  this  April 
Conference,  namely,  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
for  the  accomplishment  of  God's  great  purposes  among  men  in  this 
latter-day  dispensation,  known  in  scripture  as  the  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times.  Further  organization  and  divine  revelation  suc- 
ceeded this  event,  until  April  3,  1836,  when  the  revelation  of  the  fulness 
of  the  Gospel  was  completed  by  the  appearance  of  other  heavenly  mes- 
sengers with  the  keys  of  their  respective  dispensations,  the  culminating 
one  being  the  promised  coming  of  the  Prophet  Elijah  with  the  keys 
of  the  priesthood  authority  which  he  held,  and  that  prophet's  announce- 
ment to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  that  "the  keys  of  this  dis- 
pensation are  committed  into  your  hands,  and  by  this  ye  may  know 
that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is  near,  even  at  the  door." 

More  than  twelve  years  before  this  latter  date,  on  September  21, 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


1823,  God  had  promised  to  Joseph  Smith,  through  an  angel,  that  he 
would  send  to  him  the  prophet  Elijah,  with  the  mission  to  "plant  in 
the  hearts  of  the  children  the  promises  made  to  the  fathers,  and  the 
hearts  of  the  children  shall  turn  to  their  fathers."  Among  millions 
of  our  race  today,  outside  of  membership  in  the  Church  as  well  as  with 
those  inside,  this  prediction  is  being  verified  in  a  truly  wonderful  man- 
ner. These  millions  are  seeking  to  know  of  the  promises  made  to  their 
fathers ;  and  truly  in  the  world  today  there  is  wide  turning  of  the  hearts 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers  in  genealogical  research  through  records 
of  ages  agone.  These  facts  and  many  others  bear  indubitable  evidence 
that  the  revelation  of  the  Gospel  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  others 
in  this  age  is  God's  Divine  Truth.  To  this  fact  I  bear  my  most  solemn 
testimony  on  this  occasion. 

PERSONAL  DESIRES 

It  is  my  earnest,  sincere  desire  that  in  my  calling  my  preaching 
shall  be,  as  the  Lord  directs,  "the  warning  voice,  in  mildness  and  in 
meekness."  To  be  qualified  for  the  work  all  engaged  therein  are  re- 
quired to  show  forth  hope,  charity,  and  love;  to  "remember  faith, 
virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kindness,  godliness, 
charity,  humility,  diligence;"  and  to  beware  of  pride  and  a  cold  haughti- 
ness such  as  weak  humanity  often  is  prone  to. 

My  desire  also  is  to  convey  to  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  all 
my  friends,  a  message  that  to  me  seems  of  great  worth  on  this  par- 
ticular occasion.  Thousands  of  years  ago,  when  Israel  was  before 
Mount  Sinai  under  the  leadership  of  their  great  Prophet  Moses,  God 
gave  to  Israel  statutes  and  commandments,  with  promises  of  great 
blessing  if  these  were  kept,  and  predictions  of  punishment  for  wrong 
doing  if  disregarded  ;  for  Israel  had  taken  upon  them  his  name.  Among 
those  commandments  was  one  which  carried  a  peculiar  and  remarkable 
promise.   That  commandment  was  : 

BLESSING  IN  KEEPING  THE  SABBATH 

"Ye  shall  keep  my  sabbaths,  and  reverence  my  sanctuary.  I  am 
the  Lord." 

The  promise  for  obedience  was  that  their  enemies  should  not 
prevail  against  them,  but  Israel  would  prevail.  This  command  and 
promise  are  recorded  in  the  twenty-sixth  chapter  of  the  book  of  Le- 
viticus in  the  Old  Testament,  second,  seventh  and  eighth  verses.  All 
during  the  thirty-three  succeeding  centuries  when  Israel  has  remem- 
bered to  keep  God's  sabbaths  and  reverence  his  sanctuary,  the  promised 
blessing  has  attended  them  in  that  obedience.  It  also  is  manifest  in 
the  nations  whence  we  gather  Israel  today,  wherever  the  command  rela- 
tive to  the  sabbath  and  sanctuary  is  observed.  That  observance  is  of 
great  moment  to  the  saints  at  this  time,  if  they  would  receive  the 
divine  blessing.   It  is  momentous  and  needful  because  it  is  divine  Truth. 

My  word  and  message  to  my  fellowmen  everywhere  today  is  that 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


61 


the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  set  forth  in  his  revealed  scriptures 
is  the  plan  of  salvation  and  of  peace  to  the  world ;  that  while  it  is 
commendable  in  men  to  seek  peace  by  every  honorable  means,  the  great 
peace  for  humankind  comes  only  through  the  potent,  sacred,  divine  mis- 
sion of  the  Man  of  Galilee,  whose  mission  is  God's  Eternal  Truth.  God 
bless  you  all,  in  Jesus'  name. 

A  solo  and  chorus,  "Let  all  on  earth  their  voices  raise,"  was  sung 
by  Lavar  Isaacson  and  the  choir. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  am  very  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  I  am  permitted  to  be  present  on 
this  occasion.  I  feel  that  I  am  among  my  friends,  and  have  always 
tried  to  feel  that  way.  I  have  only  one  great  big  desire  and  that  is  to 
live  until  I  have  fulfilled  and  completed  my  mission  here  upon  the 
earth.  The  revelations  tell  us  that  if  we  desire  to  serve  the  Lord  we 
are  called  to  the  work.  I  have  a  burning  desire  in  my  heart  to  follow 
in  the  footsteps  of  my  father,  and  to  he  loyal  and  true  and  faithful,  and 
to  be  found  among  the  number  that  sustain  God's  work  and  uphold  the 
hands  of  his  holy  priesthood. 

I  realize,  in  part  only  the  great  responsibility  that  is  resting  on  the 
Presidency  of  this  Church  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  and  all  those 
who  take  part  in  this  great  work.  I  believe  Joseph  Smith  is  one  of  the 
greatest  prophets  that  has  ever  lived.  I  believe  in  his  prophecies  and 
revelations.  While  I  may  be  among  the  number  that  would  like  to 
rush  things  on  a  little,  to  see  how  they  are  coming  out,  in  Jackson 
County  and  all  that,  I  am  sure  that  all  will  be  literally  fulfilled  in 
the  due  time  of  the  Lord. 

Whenever  the  Lord  wants  to  speak  to  his  people  he  knows  whom 
to  talk  to.  I  have  known  President  Grant  during  my  labors  in  the 
First  Council.  I  have  slept  with  him  and  talked  with  him,  but  I 
haven't  slept  with  him  since  he  has  been  President  of  the  Church. 
I  know  of  no  better  man.  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  cater  to  men. 
I  sustain  them  and  uphold  them,  but  I  have  learned  that  they  are 
human.  I  sustain  and  uphold,  with  all  my  heart  and  soul,  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  as  the  prophet  of  God.  It  was  only  two  months  ago 
that  a  young  lawyer — I  suppose  he  considers  himself  one  of  the 
brilliant  young  lawyers — undertook  to  criticize  severely  the  President 
of  the  Church.  I  was  somewhat  disturbed.  I  said,  "I  am  going  to 
take  out  my  watch  and  give  you  five  minutes  to  name  a  better  man." 
I  haven't  heard  from  him  yet.  I  want  to  say  to  you,  in  full  faith  and 
confidence,  no  man  has  ever  earned  his  place  as  the  prophet  of  God, 
through  loyalty,  faithfulness,  devotion  and  sacrifice,  more  than  Pres- 
ident Heber  J.  Grant. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  realize  that  this  is  a  serious  work.  I  have  had  more  joy  and 
more  happiness — real  joy  and  happiness — when  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  when  standing  before  the  people  and  testifying  of  the  truth  of 
this-  work,  than  at  any  other  time.  True  it  is  I  may  have  said  things 
that  would  have  been  better  unsaid.  Unfortunately,  I  have  tried 
to  say  some  things  that  haven't  been  understood,  but  I  know  that  this 
work  is  true,  as  well  as  I  know  anything.  If  there  is  anything  I  know, 
as  far  as  my  testimony  goes,  it  is  that  this  is  the  work  of  God ;  that 
God  is  our  Father ;  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
Joseph  Smith  is  and  always  will  be  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and 
his  prophecies  and  revelations  will  come  true.  I  know  it  is  needful 
to  have  a  little  joy,  a  little  peace  and  happiness  in  this  world  of  ours, 
which  is  full  of  sorrow,  death  and  misfortune.  I  get  a  good  deal  of 
joy  sometimes  from  very  simple  things.  I  couldn't  help  but  think  this 
morning  of  one  man  talking  over  the  radio,  getting  a  hundred  fifty 
thousand  dollars  a  year.  No  one  ever  gave  me  a  nickel  for  any  joy 
that  I  ever  gave  him.  I  think  we  need  a  little  cheer,  a  little  helpfulness, 
and  a  little  encouragement.  I  have  a  matter  that  I  would  like  to  read 
to  you.    It  will  take  me  only  a  few  minutes. 

"It  is  a  very  old,  old  story;  but  it  never  needed  retelling  so  much  as  in 
this  present  hour :  His  name  was  Joseph,  and  he  was  carried  away  from  home, 
and  found  himself  in  Egypt,  a  strange  new  land.  Because  he  was  good  looking 
and  intelligent  and  a  hard  worker  he  rose  rapidly  until  he  became  prime  minister. 
Except  the  king,  there  was  no  other  man  in  Egypt  more  influential  or  more 
celebrated." 

His  relatives  learned  with  interest  of  his  rise.  They  followed  into 
Egypt,  and  with  his  help  they  too  prospered  and  were  likewise  influential. 
It  looked  as  though  they  were  permanently  provided  for,  as  though 
nothing  could  happen  to  dislodge  them.  But  in  a  single  generation — 
yes,  in  a  little  fraction  of  a  generation — the  unbelievable  occurred. 
The  people  who  were  so  contented,  so  free  from  all  concern,  were 
hurled  from  their  high  position  into  the  bitterness  of  slavery.  The 
thing  that  had  happened  to  them  is  recorded  in  a  single  sentence, 
"Joseph  died."  That  has  not  been  the  case  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Joseph  the  prophet  died,  but  the  Church 
has  continued  to  progress  and  advance  and  will  until  it  completes  its 
mission.  A  new  generation  has  arisen.  "A  prophet  in  the  wilderness 
was  still  crying,  but  there  was  no  one  to  heed — there  was  scarcely 
anyone  to  listen — material  force  was  in  evidence  in  its  might."  It 
seemed  so  foolish  to  rely  on  so  slender  a  thing  as  divine  support. 
It  ought  to  be  self-evident  to  a  pagan  that  arrogance  and  earthly  power 
can  vanish  over  night,  for  all  that  is  not  built  upon  God  shall  -fall._ 
To  trust  to  material  standards  of  strength  brings  calamity — material" 
force,  as  apart  from  God  and  opposed  to  him,  cannot  succeed. 

A  new  generation  has  arisen.  The  people  seem  so  content,  so 
free  from  all  concern;  but  like  the  Jews  in  the  days  of  Joseph,  they 
can  be  hurled  from  their  high  position  into  the  bitterness  of  slavery. 

We  older  men  think  our  story  should  be  told  of  our  pioneer  fathers 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  KIMBALL 


63 


and  mothers,  and  the  faith  of  our  ancestors  ;  and  we  write  a  book,  preach 
a  sermon  or  two  and  think  our  task  is  ended.  This  new  generation  that 
have  arisen  have  discovered  over  night  that  a  new  world  has  been 
born  and  that  the  United  States  of  America  is  about  tp  assume  the 
responsibility  of  saving  the  world  and  they  are  content  and  satisfied. 

At  no  time  in  the  history  of  this  great  nation  has  there  been  greater 
danger  than  for  this  new  generation.  The  danger  comes  from  ease,  idle- 
ness and  luxury,  as  there  never  was  a  time  when  the  people  were  spend- 
ing their  means  as  prodigally  as  now  and  ever  reaching  out  after 
material  things. 

The  prodigal  dollar  seems  to  be  swallowing  all  that  is  great  and 
noble  in  the  nation. 

To  my  mind  the  Mormon  people  are  becoming  content  and  self- 
satisfied — they  show  evidence  of  falling  down  in  their  spiritual  efforts. 
It  seems  to  me,  a  great  deal  of  that  which  has  been  gained  by  faith, 
adversity,  sacrifice  and  years  of  hard  work  is  being  let  loose  of.  Our 
fathers  and  mothers  died  for  the  faith  and  we  are  living  on  the  faith 
of  our  pioneer  ancestors.  But  behold,  another  generation  has  arisen, 
and  in  the  very  instant  of  our  self-content  the  silence  is  broken  by  our 
being  hurled  from  our  mighty  purpose.  Joseph  Smith,  the  mighty 
prophet,  was  chosen  of  God  to  send  forth  the  message  of  salvation  to 
the  children  of  men.   He  was  martyred,  but  that  was  not  the  end. 

Brigham  Young  rightfully  succeeded  him;  and  his  followers  with 
him  fled  to  the  Rocky  Mountains.  Brigham  Young  led  the  way  for  the 
first  trekkers  of  adventuresome  spirits  in  the  year  1847  who  were  the 
original  builders  in  what  Daniel  Webster  christened  the  "Great  American 
Desert."  On  entering  the  Salt  Lake  Valley  divine  intelligence  at  once 
manifested  itself  in  all  his  deliberations.  "This  is  the  place."  There 
beats  in  the  heart  of  this  great  man,  a  leader,  a  prophet  of  God,  a  great 
load  of  care — the  destiny  of  his  people. 

One  has  to  believe  to  understand  the  destiny,  object  and  purpose 
of  this  people.  The  leaders  understood  and  believed.  They  knew — 
God  revealed  it  to  them.  President  Brigham  Young  and  his  followers 
said,  "We  will  make  this  barren  waste  bloom  and  furnish  clean  unsullied 
wealth  for  thousands  of  poor  people  from  all  over  the  world,  who  have 
been  crushed  under  the  Juggernaut  of  our  Christian  civilization — we 
are  going  to  plant  them  under  the  shadow  of  the  Rocky  Mountains, 
we  will  create  an  Eden  out  of  the  desert ;  we  will  lay  out  town- 
sites  and  cities  and  build  churches  and  schoolhouses  and  raise  wheat  and 
vegetables.  God's  children  shall  be  converted  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  be  given  land.  They  shall  have  a  chance  for  life,  liberty 
and  the  pursuit  of  happiness.  They  shall  know  their  toil  will  bring 
them  some  returns  so  that  they  can  have  a  home  and  a  hope  for  the 
future. 

It  was  a  big  thought,  a  great  idea,  manifested  by  divine  intelligence. 
He  was  a  prophet.  He  had  a  vision  of  the  future.  The  great  leaders 
did  not  want  the  land  and  water  for  themselves ;  they  wanted  men  to 
be  God's  agents — stewards  for  God — and  hold  the  land  in  trust  as  a 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


sacred  inheritance.  This  land  was  to  belong  to  the  lowly  of  the  earth 
and  to  be  saved  for  the  hewers  of  stone  and  the  drawers  of  water. 
These  valleys  in  the  mountains  were  to  be  made  to  bloom  and  blossom 
for  the  poor- whose  hope  is  the  land  that  gave  them  birth  and  life  and 
would  receive  them  in  its  bosom  when  they  died  and  made  a  safe 
return  to  the  Father  of  all. 

Just  take  the  time  to  think  of  the  thousands  of  acres  of  lonely 
thirsty  land  waiting  for  centuries,  to  be  reclaimed  from  the  ruins  of  ages. 
They  saw  in  vision  green  fields  and  farms  just  as  Joseph  Smith  pro- 
phesied it  would  be.  "It  is  the  place"  where  you'll  find  all  the  things 
your  souls  are  hungering  for ;  where  the  people  will  own  big  farms,  with 
green  fields  of  wheat  and  alfalfa  with  purple  blossoms  and  long  rows  of 
fruit  trees  and  vegetables.  All  will  be  most  beautiful  in  a  desert.  It 
was  a  vision,  a  dream  come  true.  Nobody  was  there  to  despoil  their 
dream. 

A  new  generation  has  arisen.  Think  of  your  pioneer  fathers  and 
mothers  who  built  better  than  they  knew.  Think  of  the  men,  women 
and  children  toiling  in  sweat  shops,  with  little  food,  families  without 
money,  without  hope  and  without  fuel,  facing  cold  winters  in  these 
great  cities,  who  have  been  gathered  to  a  barren  empire  which  our 
ancestors  have  transformed  into  an  Eden.  A  land  of  liberty — a  home 
for  the  oppressed  of  God's  children,  where  they  can  have  life,  liberty 
and  the  pursuit  of  happiness,  and  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates 
of  their  conscience.  The  stranger  has  found  his  way  amongst  us  and 
many  of  us  have  sold  our  inheritance  for  a  mess  of  pottage  and  are 
seeking  elsewhere,  hoping  for  more  ease,  more  idleness,  more  luxury. 
In  this  once  lonely  sage-covered,  wind-swept  valley  there  should  be 
erected  a  granite  monument  and  written  thereon  this  epitaph : 

"Who  seeks  for  heaven  alone  to  save  his  soul,  may  keep  the  path,  but  will 
not  reach  the  goal;  while  he  who  walks  in  love  may  wander  iar,  yet  God 
will  bring  him  where  the  blessed  are."  (Henry  Van  Dyke.) 

On  an  occasion  in  San  Francisco,  on  March  16,  1924,  young  Elder 
Larkin  handed  this  to  me.  On  that  occasion  J.  G.  Kimball  prophesied 
that  "before  many  of  you  go  to  the  other  side,  you  will  all  have  burning 
desires  in  your  hearts  to  return  to  the  places  where  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  have  counseled  the  saints  to  settle  and  you  will  give  anything  for 
a  home  there." 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH. 

I  am  honored  this  morning  in  being  permitted  to  worship  with  this 
wonderful  congregation,  to  find  myself  numbered  among  those  who  are 
considered  worthy  to  assemble  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  I  desire  sin- 
cerely that  the  time  occupied  by  me  may  be  profitable  to  you ;  and  will, 
therefore,  appreciate  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  that  I  may 
be  led  to  say  the  things  that  will  be  helpful. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  65 


I  rejoiced  exceedingly  during  the  sessions  of  yesterday  and  last 
evening,  and  there  wells  up  in  my  soul  a  feeling  of  thanksgiving  to  him 
from  whom  all  blessings  flow.  I  am  one  of  those  who  believe  in  the 
teaching  of  the  Bible,  that  "man  was  created  in  the  image  of  God."  Last 
night,  as  I  beheld  the  beautiful  pageant  portraying  the  various  ages  of 
the  world  and  conditions  that  have  existed,  I  felt  to  thank  my  Father  in 
heaven  that  my  lot  has  been  cast  in  this  day  and  with  this  people. 

* 

THE  WAY  PREPARED 

In  the  Bible  we  read,  in  the  third  chapter  of  Amos : 

"Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto 
his  servants  the  prophets." 

I  believe  that,  and  I  believe  that  all  down  through  the  ages,  as  re- 
corded in  holy  writ,  the  Lord  has  vindicated  that  statement.  The  prep- 
aration for  the  ushering  in  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  this  latter 
dispensation  was  indicated  in  the  reign  of  Nebuchadnezzar,  and  repeat- 
ed again  in  the  days  of  the  Apostles,  and  then  the  foundation  was  laid 
for  the  organization  of  the  government  of  the  United  States  by  men  and 
women  who  believed  in  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  stage 
was  not  set  hastily ;  it  was  preparing  through  hundreds  of  years.  We 
who  live  in  this  marvelous  age  may  look  back  and  see  that  throughout 
the  centuries  our  Heavenly  Father  has  fulfilled  his  promises  to  his  chil- 
dren, and  the  people  or  nation  that  has  observed  the  laws  of  God  and 
honored  his  commandments  has  been  blessed;  while  those  who  have 
been  recreant  to  their  opportunity  have  suffered  calamity  and  in  many 
cases  entire  destruction.  Our  Heavenly  Father  prepared  the  way  for 
the  coming  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was  to  precede  the 
second  coming  of  our  Lord. 

HIS  PROMISES  FULFILLED. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  contains  several  revelations  given  by 
the  Lord  before  he  organized  his  Church.  Among  them  was  this  one 
— and  I  call  attention  to  it  as  evidence  that  the  Lord  fulfills  his  promises. 
In  February,  1829,  one  hundred  and  one  years  ago,  this  revelation  was 
given  through  the  Prophet  to  his  father.  By  the  way,  this  revelation 
was  given  at  a  time  when  the  people  of  the  world  did  not  believe  in  new 
revelation,  when  they  did  not  accept  the  idea  that  God  could  speak  again 
from  the  heavens,  and  those  who  believed  that  he  could  or  would  were 
ridiculed.   But  the  Lord  did  speak,  and  this  is  what  he  said : 

"Now  behold,  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the  children 
of  men. 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the  service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and  strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless  be- 
fore God  at  the  last  day. 

"Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God  ye  are  called  to  the  work." 

This  was  before  the  Church  was  organized,  before  the  priesthood 
had  been  so  widely  conferred  and  when  men  were  called  to  the  work  in 
an  orderly  way. 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"For  behold  the  field  is  white  already  to  harvest;  and  lo,  he  that  thrusteth 
in  his  sickle  with  his  might,  the  same  layeth  up  in  store  that  he  perisheth  not, 
but  bringeth  salvation  to  his  soul ; 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge,  temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kind- 
ness, godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence. 

"Ask,  and  ye  shall  receive;  knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto  you." 

god's  church. 

A  hundred  years  ago  yesterday  the  Lord  commenced  this  work.  He 
had  predicted  it  himself,  and  had  called  attention  to  the  fact  that  it  was 
to  be  a  marvelous  work.  No  man  could  have  fulfilled  that  prediction, 
but  our  Heavenly  Father  has  fulfilled  his  promise;  and  in  the  year 
1830,  on  the  6th  day  of  April,  he  organized  his  Church.  I  would  like 
to  emphasize  that,  as  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  it  is  his  Church, 
not  the  Church  of  Joseph  Smith  or  of  Brigham  Young  or  of  John  Taylor 
or  of  Wilford  Woodruff  or  of  Lorenzo  Snow  or  of  Jpseph  F.  Smith  or 
of  Heber  J.  Grant ;  for  while  these  men  have  been  his  faithful  represen- 
tatives upon  earth,  it  is  not  their  Church,  but  it  is  the  Church  of  the 
Redeemer  of  mankind. 

THE  LABORERS   IN  THE  VINEYARD. 

At  that  time  he  gave  certain  information.  I  shall  not  take  time 
to  read  that  (Section  21)  but  I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  in  it 
the  Lord  said : 

"For  behold,  I  will  bless  all  those  who  labor  in  my  vineyard  with  a  mighty 
blessing,  and  they  shall  believe  on  his  words,  which  are  given  him  through  me  by 
the  Comforter,  which  manifesteth  that  Jesus  was  crucified  by  sinful  men  for  the 
sins  of  the  world,  yea,  for  the  remission  of  sins  unto  the  contrite  heart." 

I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that  he  made  a  promise  that  he  would 
bless  all  those  who  labored  in  his  vineyard,  and  since  that  time  thousands 
of  men  and  women  have  gone  into  the  world  to  advocate  the  truth.  I 
have  met  and  visited  with  hundreds,  yes,  and  with  thousands  of  them 
myself,  and  I  have  never  heard  one  bear  any  other  testimony  than  that 
the  Lord  had  blessed  him  and  given  him  great  joy  when  he  labored 
in  his  service. 

I  was  thinking  today  of  the  Smith  family,  chosen  by  the  Lord  to 
be  instrumental  in  beginning  this  work.  I  checked  over  in  my  mind  the 
number  of  the  descendants  of  Asael  Smith,  the  Prophet's  grandfather, 
who  have  given  a  portion  of  their  lives  in  the*  mission  field.  I  find  that 
in  that  family  alone  more  than  two  hundred  years  of  faithfulness  and 
devotion  in  advocating  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  have  been  thus  spent. 
It  is  marvelous  when  you  think  of  what  has  been  accomplished,  and  how 
the  Lord  has  fulfilled  his  promise. 

THE  WORDS  OF  THE  BOOK. 

One  hundred  and  one  years  ago  this  very  day,  Joseph  began  the 
translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  Oliver  Cowdery  became  his 
scribe.    We  have  a  copy  of  that  wonderful  book  here  upon  the  pul- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  67 


pit.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  them  have  been  distributed  in  the  world. 
Ridiculed  though  it  was  at  the  time,  it  contains  a  special  promise.  I 
will  read  that  promise.  The  Prophet  Nephi  said,  as  you  will  find  in 
the  thirtieth  chapter  of  the  second  book  of  Nephi : 

"Now,  I  would  prophesy  somewhat  more  concerning  the  Jews  and  the 
Gentiles;  for  after  the  book  of  which  I  have  spoken  shall  come  forth  and  be 
written  unto  the  Gentiles  and  sealed  up  again  unto  the  Lord,  there  shall  be  many 
which  shall  believe  the  words  of  the  Book." 

That  statement  was  in  the  manuscript  in  the  hands  of  the  printer, 
and  was  there  with  the  knowledge  of  Joseph  Smith  and  his  associates 
who  assisted  in  translating  the  record.  At  that  very  time  the  people 
in  the  neighborhood  of  Palmyra  and  Manchester  had  already  declared 
that  they  would  not  buy  the  book,  that  its  publication  would  be  a  failure 
if  they  could  make  it  a  failure,  and  the  copies  that  were  to  come  from 
the  press  would  be  wasted.  Had  that  book  been  written  by  Joseph 
Smith  himself  I  am  sure  that  passage  would  have  been  deleted,  that 
"many  shall  believe  the  words  of  the  book."  But  it  was  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  through  Nephi.  Has  that  prophecy  been  fulfilled?  What 
are  the  facts?  The  book  has  been  translated  and  published  in  fifteen 
different  languages,  and  is  translated  in  several  other  languages.  Ap- 
proximately a  million  people  have  believed  it  and  accepted  it  as  a  sacred 
record.  It  has  been  generously  distributed  among  the  children  of  men. 
In  a  hundred  years  nothing  has  been  discovered  that  would  set  aside  the 
statements  that  are  contained  therein,  and  the  things  that  have  been  un- 
covered by  archaeologists  and  others  have  demonstrated  the  truth  of  the 
historical  facts  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  One  hundred  years 
have  passed,  and  surely  many  have  believed  the  words  of  the  book.  The 
prophecy  has  been  fulfilled.  Our  Heavenly  Father  caused  that  it  should 
be  written,  and  he  always  fulfils  his  promise. 

THE  LORD  WORKING  AMONG  THE  NATIONS 

In  the  same  chapter  we  find  the  following : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  Lord  shall  commence  his  work  among 
all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues,  and  people,  to  bring  about  the  restoration  of  his 
people  upon  the  earth." 

Has  he  fulfilled  that  promise?  If  there  be  anybody  in  this  house 
past  seventy-five  years  of  age  who  will  take  the  time  to  think  of  what 
has  occurred  since  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  first  published,  he  will 
discover  that  almost  every  implement,  almost  every  convenience  now 
enjoyed  by  mankind,  has  come  since  the  Book  of  Mormon  issued  from 
the  press  in  the  year  1830.  We  are  witnesses  this. day  that  in  a  hundred 
years  this  world  has  made  progress  along  most  lines  greater  than  in  all 
the  previous  centuries  since  the  earth  was  created  and  our  first  parents 
came  upon  it.  The  Lord  said  he  would  commence  his  work  among  the 
nations.  Man  had  had  his  trial ;  men  for  thousands  of  years  had  worked 
at  it.  But  when  the  Lord  set  his  hand  and  when  he  began  to  quicken 
the  minds  of  men  by  the  inspiration  of  his  holy  power  men  began  to  work 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


out  wonderful  inventions  that  have  changed  the  entire  condition  of  this 
world.  I  say  to  you  that  after  a  hundred  years  we  are  living  in  a  new 
world.   But  the  work  of  the  Lord  has  only  just  begun. 

Oh,  how  my  soul  thrilled  last  night  as  I  beheld  the  pageant  that 
was  presented  before  us  of  the  ages  that  have  passed.  It  was  called 
most  forcibly  to  my  attention  that  we  who  live  in  luxury  today  do  not 
appreciate  what  our  .forbears  have  passed  through.  The  scene  of  our 
pioneers  toiling  across  the  plains  touched  my  heart,  and  tears  dimmed 
my  eyes  as  I  thought  of  them  under  the  burning  sun's  rays  and  in 
many  cases  in  the  snow ;  and  remembering  that  my  own  father  was  born 
on  the  way,  I  asked  myself :  Am  I  living  to  be  worthy  of  the  sacrifices 
that  were  made  by  men  and  women  such  as  these  ?  I  hope  I  am.  I  hope 
I  appreciate  this  blessing. 

GROWTH   IN  A  CENTURY. 

This  is  our  Father's  work.  In  a  hundred  years  we  have  made 
great  progress.  Do  you  realize  that  in  a  hundred  years  after  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  with  six  members  there  has  been  more  than 
one  hundred  thousand  people  converted  for  each  one  of  those  six 
whose  names  appear  as  the  organizers  of  the  Church?  One  hundred 
thousand  for  each  one  in  a  hundred  years.  Multiply  that  by  our  present 
membership,  and  if  we  should  do  as  well  in  the  next  hundred  years,  con- 
sidering our  present  membership,  do  you  know  what  it  would  mean? 
Not  three  fourths  of  a  million  people,  but  more  than  seventy  billion 
people  would  be  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Can  you  not 
see  how  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  has  been  going  forward  ?  Can 
you  not  see  how  we  as  individuals  have  only  contributed  our  mite,  but  the 
multitude  has  united,  and  the  word  of  the  Lord  has  been  disseminated 
among  the  children  of  men ;  not  in  a  militant  way,  but  in  kindness  and  in 
love,  with  a  desire  to  bless  all  mankind. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  BLESSINGS 

If  I  interpret  the  spirit  of  this  conference  it  is  a  spirit  of  love,  a 
feeling  of  thanksgiving  to  him  who  is  the  author  of  all  our  blessings. 

I  stand  here  today  one  of  the  humblest  among  you,  profoundly 
grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  my  membership  in  this  Church,  and 
for  the  knowledge  that  he  has  given  to  me  of  its  truth,  for  my  associa- 
tion with  these  men  who  are  my  close  companions  in  life,  and  for  the 
privilege  of  mingling  with  the  members  of  this  Church  throughout  the 
land.  I,  too,  am  thankful  for  the  friendship  of  great  and  good  men 
and  women  throughout  the  world,  who  have  not  yet  understood  the 
purpose  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  how  I  hope  and  pray  that 
because  of  our  upright  lives,  by  reason  of  the  continued  development  of 
this  work  and  of  the  power  of  truth  as  it  has  been  made  manifest  in  the 
last  hundred  years,  these  too  may  be  made  to  understand,  and  that  they 
with  their  children  and  their  children's  children  may  become  members 
of  the  fold  of  Christ  and  receive,  an  inheritance  in  his  celestial  kingdom. 

God  grant  that  we  who  have  been  so  bountifully  blessed  may  hold 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


69 


up  the  hands  of  the  servant  of  the  Lord  who  presides  over  us ;  that  we 
may  help  him  not  only  by  our  faith  and  prayers  but  by  loving  kindness 
as  opportunity  offers;  that  we  may  march  under  the  banner  that  he 
shall  hold  aloft  as  God  continues  to  sustain  him  as  President  of  the 
Church,  as  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  in  these  latter  days. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  know 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  as  I  know  that  I 
live ;  and  I  bear  you  witness  of  it  in  humility  and  in  loving  kindness,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

My  heart  has  been  filled  to  overflowing  and  I  have  been  greatly 
thrilled  with  the  spirit  of  this  great  occasion,  this  great  celebration 
of  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the  Church. 
I  rejoice  this  day  over  the  glorious  truths  that  have  come  to  light  in 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  our  Redeemer. 

Those  who  were  present  at  the  pageant  last  night  must  have  been 
impressed  with  the  magnitude  of  this  work.  The  story  told  in  symbol 
contemplates  the  "Message  of  the  Ages,"  the  work  of  the  Lord.  It  had 
its  beginning  before  the  foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid.  It  has  been 
one  great  struggle  between  good  and  evil,  a  great  struggle  for  the 
liberty  of  the  children  of  God.  This  work  contemplates  an  exercise 
of  free  agency,  of  liberty.  It  is  for  the  purpose  of  making  men  free 
and  securing  unto  them  their  inalienable  rights,  which  they,  of  neces- 
sity, must  exercise  in  order  to  obtain  eternal  life.  There  can  be  no 
salvation  in  compulsion.  There  can  be  no  reward  through  compelled 
obedience.  But  when  men  elect  in  the  free  exercise  of  their  agency 
to  serve  God  instead  of  serving  mammon,  thereby  do  they  comply  with 
the  conditions  of  salvation. 

This  Gospel  is  a  plan  of  liberating  mankind  from  bondage.  "The 
whole  world  lieth  in  sin,  and  groaneth  under  darkness  and  under  the 
bondage  of  sin"  (Doc.  and  Cov.  84 :49) ,  but  the  truth  from  heaven  has  a 
mission  to  perform,  namely,  to  liberate  us  and  make  us  free.  It  is  no 
wonder  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  espoused  the  great  cause  of 
human  liberty,  that  they  regard  this  great  government  of  which  we 
form  a  part  as  having  been  inspired  of  Almighty  God,  that  they  regard 
the  Constitution  of  our  land  and  that  instrument  that  preceded  it, 
known  as  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  as  being  inspired  of  the 
Almighty  for  the  salvation  and  the  protection  of  the  children  of  God. 
We  rejoice  in  being  citizens  of  this  great  republic,  the  freest  country 
in  all  the  world.  Its  principles,  the  very  foundations  upon  which  it  has 
been  established,  are  set  forth  in  that  Declaration  of  Independence, 
wherein  it  is  stated  that  "all  men  are  created  equal  and  that  they  have 
been  endowed  by  their  Creator  with  certain  inalienable  rights,  among 
which  are  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness."   Let  it  not  be  felt 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  these  rights  are  given  to  us  by  any  government.  Not  so.  We  live 
not  because  a  government  has  given  us  the  privilege  to  live;  we  live 
because  God  gave  us  life.  We  are  free  not  because  any  government  has 
given  us  our  liberty — we  are  free  not  because  we  have  received  that 
power  and  that  right  from  any  human  source;  we  are  free  because 
God  made  us  free. 

The  Lord  inspired  the  fathers  of  our  country,  our  Revolutionary 
fathers,  with  this  same  spirit  of  human  liberty,  this  right  of  free  agency. 
This  great  struggle  for  liberty  did  not  begin  on  this  earth;  it  began 
before  the  foundations  of  it  were  laid.  The  Lord  devised  the  plan 
whereby  we  might  be  liberated  and  made  free  and  independent.  The 
Lord  designs  that  we  shall  be  so.  There  was  war  in  heaven  before  the 
foundations  of  this  earth  were  laid.  And  what  was  that  great  conflict 
over  ?  It  was  a  struggle  for  the  liberties  of  the  children  of  God. 

What  is  freedom?  What  is  liberty?  Does  it  mean  license  to  do 
evil?  No,  indeed  it  does  not.  To  be  free  means  to  liberate  ourselves 
from  the  bondage  of  sin.  We,  in  this  country,  boast  of  our  human 
liberty  and  we  have  great  reason  to  be  proud  of  the  liberty  that  we 
enjoy  under  our  Constitution;  but  after  all  is  said  and  done  it  is  only 
a  measure  of  civil  liberty,  but  the  greatest  measure  to  be  found  among 
all  the  governments  of  the  world.  We  sometimes  boast  of  being  in  the 
land  of  the  free,  the  heme  of  the  brave.  Nevertheless,  we  are  not  free 
until  we  have  overcome  evil — until  we  liberate  ourselves  from  the 
bondage  of  sin. 

The  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  is  destined  to  make  us  free. 
It  is  the  truth  revealed  from  heaven  that  will  make  all  men  free  if 
they  will  only  render  obedience  to  it.  This  plan  of  free  agency  was 
opposed  by  the  enemies  of  God,  foremost  among  whom  was  Lucifer, 
even  in  that  primeval  day  when  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  was  first 
promulgated  among  the  children  of  God,  when  it  was  made  known  that 
they  could  come  upon  this  earth  and  receive  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones 
and  live  this  earth  life,  in  the  exercise  of  their  free  agency. 

"To  live  and  to  be  free, 
To  worship  God  alone, 
As  conscience  guideth  me, 
As  my  own  heart  is  prone. 
These  are  rights  God-given ; 
He  gave  them  all  to  me. 
They  emanate  from  heaven — 
E'en  life  and  liberty." 

There  is  none  in  all  the  world  who  feels  more  deeply  than  we  do 
the  import  of  our  popular  national  hymn : 

"Our  fathers'  God !  to  thee, 
Author  of  liberty, 
To  thee  we  sing; 
Long  may  our  land  be  bright 
With  freedom's  holy  light, 
Protect  us  by  thy  might, 
Great  God,  our  King !" 


1 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  71 

What  a  blessed  boon  is  liberty.  The  free  agency  of  man!  The 
right  to  live  upon  the  earth  with  a  knowledge  of  good  and  evil.  Blessed 
are  we  if  we  choose  the  good  and  reject  the  evil,  provided,  of  course, 
we  do  so  of  our  own  volition,  in  the  exercise  of  our  free  agency. 
Many  there  were  even  in  the  very  beginning  who  opposed  this  plan. 
We  are  told  in  holy  writ  that  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven  followed 
Lucifer  in  his  rebellion  against  God  and  were  cast  out  of  heaven. 
That  war  begun  in  heaven,  is  continued  here  on  earth.  To  follow 
the  enemies  of  God  means  to  follow  them  into  slavery,  but  to  serve 
God  means  freedom,  and  we  are  under  necessity  of  choosing  whom 
we  will  serve — God  or  the  adversary  of  our  souls,  the  arch  enemy  of 
God.  Many  there  have  been  in  all  ages  who  have  endeavored  to  en- 
slave mankind — to  dominate  the  minds  and  consciences  of  men.  All 
such  are  enemies  of  God.  They  have  instituted  despotic  governments 
and  have  ruled  with  an  iron  hand.  They  have  established  state  religions 
and  punished  non-conformists  as  heretics  and  even  burned  them  at 
the  stake.  All  enemies  of  God  are  they  who  seek  to  destroy  the  free 
agency  of  man  or  to  deprive  them  of  their  inherent — their  inalienable 
rights  of  life  and  liberty,  the  right  to  worship  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  their  own  consciences.  The  establishment  of  a  state  religion 
is  an  abomination  in  the  sight  of  God.  Think  of  poor  afflicted  Russia 
now  under  Soviet  rule.  How  they  have  suffered  in  the  past  under  the 
despotic  rule  of  the  Czar,  and  dominated  by  a  corrupt  hierarchy — an 
established  state  church,  enslaving  and  oppressing  them! 

The  people  of  that  land  had  good  reason  to  rise  up  against  such 
conditions  and  all  sympathy  should  be  extended  to  them  in  their 
struggle  for  liberty ;  but  no  sooner  have  they  liberated  themselves  from 
this  condition  of  thralldom  till  the .  Soviet  seeks  to  plunge  them  into 
the  still  more  deadly  slavery  of  atheism.  These  Soviet  masters  are 
still  greater  oppressors  and  tyrants  than  any  who  have  ever  preceded 
them,  for  they  have  even  undertaken  to  prevent  them  from  serving 
God  in  any  form  whatever,  and  when  men  cease  to  serve  God,  at  that 
moment  they  begin  to  serve  the  devil,  which  means  slavery.  Such 
rulers  have  no  conception  of  human  rights.  What  they  need  is  a 
Thomas  Jefferson  to  write  into  their  constitution  a  provision  like  this : 
The  Soviet  shall  make  no  law  respecting  the  establishment  of  any  re- 
ligion, nor  prohibiting  the  free  exercise  thereof.  They  have  surely 
broken  down  the  establishment  of  a  state  religion,  but  they  have  also 
undertaken  to  prevent  the  free  exercise  of  any  religion — to  deprive 
their  people  of  their  inherent  rights.  Tread  lightly,  ye  powers  that  be, 
for  this  is  holy  ground.  Even  in  our  own  land  there  are  some  who 
seem  to  think  that  our  Constitution  is  unfriendly  to  religion.  On 
the  contrary,  it  is  intended  to  encourage  and  protect  all  religions.  It 
simply  means  "equal  rights  to  all,  but  special  privileges  to  none," — no 
state  religion,  but  no  interference  with  any.  This  is  holy  ground.  To 
congress  it  says  "hands  off." 

How  grateful  we  ought  to  be  for  those  champions  of  human. 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


liberty  that  have  arisen  in  our  own  land — for  George  Washington,  "the 
father  of  his  country,"  who  led  our  forces  in  establishing  this  free 
republic,  founded  upon  the  principles  of  human  liberty ;  for  Abraham 
Lincoln,  the  great  emancipator,  who  under  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty, carried  on  the  fight  to  preserve  unto  us  these  sacred  rights 
that  they  might  not  perish  from  the  earth ;  for  Woodrow  Wilson,  who 
led  the  American  forces  in  the  greatest  struggle  of  history  for  human 
liberty,  and  that  these  priciples  that  we  love  so  dearly  shall  be  extended 
to  all  mankind.  The  influence  of  these  great  champions  of  human 
liberty  will  be  felt  by  the  inhabitants  of  this  world  throughout  the  ages 
which  are  to  come. 

Let  us,  then,  as  Latter-day  Saints,  rejoice  in  the  precious  boon 
of  liberty  secured  unto  us  by  that  great  palladium  of  our  inherent  rights, 
the  Constitution,  and  manifest  our  loyalty  to  it  by  obedience  to  it  and 
the  laws  which  have  been  enacted  in  carrying  out  its  provisions.  Let  us 
also  rejoice  in  the  free  agency  of  man  which  permeates  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  manifest  our  appreciation  of  it  by  our  obedience  to 
that  Gospel  which  is  the  "Truth  that  will  make  us  free."  This  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

"The  glory  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed,"  from  the  oratorio,  "The 
Messiah,"  was  sung  by  the  choir. 

Elder  George  F.  Whitehead,  President  of  the  St.  George  Temple, 
pronounced  the  benediction,  and  the  Conference  adjourned  until  2:00 
p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2 :00  p.  m. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Provo  Tabernacle 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  Gerrit  de  Jong. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Elder  David  K.  Udall,  President  of  the  Arizona  Temple,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "As  the  hart  pants  after  the  water- 
brooks." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

MEANING  OF  IMMORTALITY 

At  a  time  when  Moses  was  caught  up  into  an  exceeding  high 
mountain  and  face  to  face  talked  with  God,  an  account  of  which  is  given 
in  the  first  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Moses,  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
the  God  of  heaven  and  earth  made  use  of  this  very  significant  and  im- 
pressive expression: 

"Behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man." 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


73 


Immortality  and  eternal  life  as  here  used  by  the  Lord,  I  under- 
stand to  mean  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  That  represents 
the  aim  and  object — the  end  in  view,  with  the  Lord,  in  all  his  works. 
To  obtain  an  exaltation  was  the  end  we  had  in  view  in  the  beginning. 
It  should  be  so  with  us  now  and  throughout  our  life. 

The  cobbler  seemed  to  understand  this  principle  who  on  being 
asked,  "What  is  your  vocation  or  business?"  answered,  "My  business 
is  to  serve  the  Lord — I  mend  shoes  for  a  living." 

THE  PLAN  OF  SALVATION 

The  purpose  of  our  existence  in  this  life  then  is  to  prepare  for 
eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come.  -The  Lord  in  the  beginning  instituted 
the  plan  by  which  this  might  be  accomplished.  The  plan  provided  is  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  including  the  work  of  a  Savior,  and 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  Chosen  One.  No  other  plan  has  the  Lord  provided 
for  man's  salvation ;  and  any  other  plan  that  might  be  presented  from 
any  source  would  be  rejected  of  the  Lord,  and  should  be  by  us,  also, 
just  as  was  the  plan  proposed  by  Lucifer  in  the  beginning. 

Next  to  our  own  salvation,  of  importance  and  interest  to  us,  is 
the  salvation  of  those  whom  the  Lord  has  given  to  us — our  own  flesh 
and  blood;  and  then  the  salvation  of  others — the  living  and  the  dead. 

The  greatest  service  one  can  render  to  his  fellowman  is  that  of 
assisting  him  to  obtain  salvation.  Such  is  the  character,  directly  or  in- 
directly, of  all  our  church  work,  including  the  work  of  the  home  minis- 
try and  that  of  the  ministry  abroad.  It  is  pure  religion  and  undefiled. 
Its  importance  calls  for  our  very  best  efforts,  as  individuals  and  as  a 
church. 

EARLY  PERSECUTIONS 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  lived  through 
a  century  of  varied  experiences,  and  has  passed  through  much  tribula- 
tion. It  has  builded  cities  and  temples  from  which  its  members  have 
been  driven  by  ruthless  mobs — self-styled  enemies  of  the  Mormon 
people.  Our  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  Patriarch  brother,  Hyrum,  were 
murdered  in  cold  blood  by  a  brutal  mob,  for  their  religion's  sake. 
Many  of  the  saints  have  suffered  death  at  the  hands  of  their  enemies 
and  through  exposure  to  the  inclement  elements  while  being  driven 
from  their  once  peaceful  and  happy  homes. 

My  father's  brother,  George  Spencer  Richards,  at  fifteen  years  of 
age  was  fairly  butchered  with  about  twenty  other  members  of  the 
Church,  men,  women  and  children,  at  Haun's  Mill,  Missouri,  Oct.  30, 
1838,  and  their  bodies  were  thrown  into  a  well  for  burial.  No  word 
or  pen  can  adequately  picture  the  physical  and  mental  distress  and 
suffering  experienced  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  during  the  early  part  of 
the  century,  while  representing  the  Lord  in  the  establishment  of  his 
Church,  and  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel.  But  Mormonism  subsists 
and  ever  will,  for  God  is  at  the  helm. 

The  accomplishments  of  the  Church  and  its  people  during  the  first 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


century  of  its  existence  are  marvelous  and  wonderful.  The  pageant 
being  presented  in  connection  with  this  centennial  conference  is  por- 
traying in  an  impressive  manner  some  of  the  leading  features  of  our 
work  and  accomplishments.  But,  notwithstanding  all  that  the  Church 
and  its  members  have  accomplished  during  the  first  century  of  its  ex- 
istence, to  which  our  minds  are  being  directed  during  this  conference, 
there  is  much  that  we  have  undertaken  that  we  have  been  unable  to 
accomplish.    However,  we  are  in  no  wise  discouraged. 

SACRIFICES  REQUIRED  IN  THE  GOSPEL 

We  could  scarcely  hope  to  be  more  successful  in  an  effort  to 
convert  the  world  than  were  the  Lord's  people  of  former  gospel  dis- 
pensations. Mormonism  is  just  about  as  popular  today  as  was  Christi- 
anity in  the  primitive  Church.  The  Mormon  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith, 
is  accepted  about  as  generally  today  as  were  Jesus  and  his  disciples 
in  their  day,  or  as  were  the  prophets  who  preceded  them.  The  Gospel 
truth  never  has  been  generally  accepted.  It  is  a  standard  of  life  that 
is  too  high  for  most  folks  to  live.  Jesus  Christ  is  the  only  person  who 
through  life  lived  up  to  the  Gospel  standards  in  all  respects  and  at  all 
times.  The  best  of  saints  are  but  striving  to  walk  in  the  footsteps  of  the 
Master.  Many  have  not  the  courage  to  undertake  it  and  therefore  do 
not  embrace  the  Gospel. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  one  of  sacrifice  and  self-abnegation, 
such  that  too  many  are  willing  to  hazard  their  chances  of  salvation  rather 
than  to  receive  the  Gospel  and  make  the  necessary  sacrifices.  Salvation 
is  a  gift  of  God  freely  given  to  his  children  who  are  willing  to  pay  the 
price — the  price  to  be  paid  is  acceptance  of  the  Gospel  and  obedience 
to  its  precepts.  Certain  principles  are  to  be  accepted,  ordinances  to  be 
received,  commandments  to  be  kept,  laws  to  be  obeyed,  service  to  be 
rendered,  evils  to  be  avoided  and  sacrifices  to  be  made. 

It  is  no  small  matter  for  one  to  give  to  his  church  year  after  year 
one-tenth  of  his  interests  and  income  and  meet  other  financial  obligations 
of  church  membership.  It  is  no  small  sacrifice  made  by  many  thousands 
of  our  people  in  leaving  home  and  loved  ones  and  going  abroad  to 
engage  in  the  ministry  and  missionary  work  from  two  to  four  years 
at  a  time,  and  in  many  instances  filling  two  or  more  such  missions.  The 
home  ministry  of  the  Church  also  makes  important  demands  upon  the 
time  and  efforts  of  its  members.  Our  faith  in  the  words  of  the  Savior 
is  absolute  and  he  has  declared  most  emphatically  that  unless  we  are 
willing  to  lay  down  our  lives  for  his  cause,  we  are  unworthy  to  be  his 
disciples.  We  desire  to  be  worthy  disciples  ,  of  the  Master,  and  if  we 
are,  we  will  be  willing  to  lay  down  our  lives  for  his  cause ;  and  if  we 
are  thus  willing  followers  of  our  Lord,  there  is  no  demand  that  can 
be  made  upon  us,  looking  to  the  advancement  of  his  work,  to  which 
we  will  not  cheerfully  respond. 

PREACHING  THE  GOSPEL  FOR  A  CENTURY 

Our  present  corps  of  missionaries  consists  of  about  two  thousand 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


75 


men  and  women  scattered  throughout  the  various  nations  of  the  earth 
and  the  islands  of  the  seas.  In  money  and  time  it  is  costing  the  Church 
and  the  membership  thereof  about  three  million  dollars  annually.  For 
and  during  a  hundred  years  we  have  been  carrying  on  this  missionary 
work  in  the  discharge  of  a  sacred  religious  duty  and  obligation  to 
preach  this  Gospel  of  the  Kingdom'  in  all  the  world  as  a  witness  unto 
all  nations  before  the  end  comes ;  and  with  a  view  to  rendering  to 
mankind  a  service  the  greatest  one  person  can  render  another.  To  make 
such  sacrifices  requires  faith,  conversion,  and  courage  such  as  but  few 
possess. 

For  a  hundred  years  we  have  tried  to  convince  the  world  of  the 
truth  that  there  is  a  God  in  heaven ;  that  he  is  the  Creator  of  all  things, 
the  Giver  of  all  good ;  that  he  is  the  Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  men ; 
that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  first  born  of  the  Father  in  the  spirit  and  the  only 
begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh;  that  under  the  direction  of  the 
Father,  the  Son  is  Creator  of  all  things,  and  that  he  is  the  Savior  and 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  very  Messiah. 

For  a  century  we  have  been  telling  the  world  that  God  the  Father, 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  are  ^separate,  immortal  and  glorified  beings, 
each  having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  and  spirit  as  tangible  as  the 
body  of  man,  and  that  we  are  all  created  and  made'  in  his  image  and 
likeness ;  that  all  his  attributes  are  manifest  in  us,  his  children,  they 
having  been  inherited  by  us  through  our  spiritual  birth ;  that  by  per- 
fecting these  God-like  attributes  we  become  like  him  in  character  as  well 
as  being  like  him  in  form. 

For  a  century  we  have  been  trying  to  convince  the  world  of  the 
fact  that  God  our  Heavenly  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  have 
revealed  themselves  anew  in  this  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times 
to  and  through  the  instrumentality  of  a  boy  less  than  fifteen  years  of 
age;  that  in  answer  to  earnest,  anxious  prayer,  both  the  Father  and 
the  Son  visited  him  and  talked  with  him,  and  made  known  to  him  the 
fact  that  there  had  been  a  universal  departure  from  the  faith  and  that 
the  .Gospel  was  about  to  be  restored  and  that  he,  Joseph  Smith,  if 
faithful,  would  become  their  representative  in  accomplishing  the  restora- 
tion. 

For  a  century  we  have  been  trying  to  show  to  the  world  that 
the  scriptures  teach  the  truth  pertaining  to  God  the  Father  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ  as  revealed  to  Joseph  Smith  by  their  heavenly  pres- 
ence. 

While  addressing  a  class  of  college  students  who  were  in  training 
for  the  ministry,  upon  the  subject  of  Deity,  Henry  Ward  Beecher  said: 

"I  am  compelled  to  say  that  I  must  form  an  ideal  of  God  through  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ.  Christ  is  indispensable  to  me.  My  nature  needs  to  fashion  the 
thought  of  God,  though  I  know  him  to  be  a  spirit,  into  something  that  shall  nearly 
or  remotely  represent  that  which  I  know.  I  hold  before  my  mind  a  glorified 
form,  therefore;  but,  after  all  the  glory,  whatever  may  be  the  nimbus  and  the 
effluence  around  about  it,  it  is  to  me  the  form  of  a  glorified  man.  And  I 
therefore  fashion  to  myself  out  of  the  spirit,  that  which  has  to  me,  as  it  were, 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  divine  presence  and  a  divine  being — namely,  a  divine  man."  (Lectures  on 
Preaching,  page  129.) 

If  Henry  Ward  Beecher  and  the  Latter-day  Saints  find  in  the 
scriptures  evidence  that  God  is  a  divine  and  glorified  man,  why  cannot 
and  why  do  not  other  religionists  do  likewise?  The  facts  remain  that 
despite  our  efforts  the  bulk  of  the  Christian-Sectarian  world  prefer 
to  believe  God  to  be  something  different  from  what  he  really  is. 

For  a  century  we  have  been  trying  to  convince  the  world  of  the 
fact  that  there  had  been  a  general  falling  away  from  the  truth  prior 
to  1820,  when  the  Father  and  Son  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith,  that 
the  authority  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  had  been  with- 
drawn from  the  earth,  in  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  and  that  the  Gospel 
in  its  fulness,  with  all  its  ordinances,  gifts  and  blessings  has  since  been 
restored,  with  authority  to  administer  its  ordinances  to  the  repentant 
believer. 

For  a  century  we  have  tried  to  show  to  the  world  from  the  scrip- 
tures that  baptism  is  necessary  to  man's  salvation;  that  baptism  sig- 
nifies immersion  and  that  immersion  was  the  only  form  of  baptism  known 
and  practiced  in  the  primitive  Church  until  several  centuries  A.  D., 
and  that  the  changing  of  the  mode  of  baptism  from  immersion  to 
pouring  or  sprinkling  is  without  authority  and  fulfils  the  prediction  of 
Isaiah  with  respect  to  the  last  times,  "The  earth,  also,  is  defiled  under 
the  inhabitants  thereof,  because  they  have  transgressed  the  laws, 
changed  the  ordinance,  broken  the  everlasting  covenant."  (Isaiah 
24:5.) 

For  a  century  we  have  taught  that  children  who  die  before  arriving 
at  the  age  of  accountability,  eight  years,  have  eternal  life,  being  re- 
deemed from  the  foundation  of  the  world  through  the  atoning  blood 
of  Jesus  Christ;  and  that  for  such,  baptism  is  not  necessary,  nor  ap- 
proved of  the  Lord. 

For  a  century  we  have  denounced  pedo — or  infant — baptism  as 
being  unscriptural,  unreasonable  and  in  conflict  with  revealed  truth; 
yet  the  practice  of  sprinkling  infants  continues.  There  are  certain 
quolifications  candidates  for  baptism  must  possess,  as  prescribed  by  the 
scriptures,  which  only  those  of  understanding  can  possess.  If  their 
mode  of  baptism  were  right,  and  their  subjects  worthy  and  eligible, 
without  the  necessary  authority  which  is  found  only  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  their  administrations  would  be  of 
no  virtue  as  affecting  the  salvation  of  the  candidates. 

EXPERIENCE  SAME  AS  IN  FORMER  DAYS 

Our  experience  has  not  been  unlike  that  of  prophets  and  saints 
of  other  Gospel  dispensations.    We  find  Isaiah  saying: 

"Who  hath  believed  our  report?"    (Isaiah  53:1.) 

And  the  author  of  the  epistle  to  the  Romans : 

"But  they  have  not  all  obeyed  the  Gospel.  For  Esaias  says,  Lord,  who  hath 
believed  our  report?"    (Romans  10:16.) 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


77 


And  the  words  of  the  Savior: 

"O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  children 
together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would 
not!"  (Matthew  23:37.) 

Then  Jesus  said  unto  them : 

"Yet  a  little  while  is  the  light  with  you.  Walk  while  you  have  the  light,  lest 
darkness  come  upon  you;  for  he  that  walketh  in  darkness  knoweth  not  whither 
he  goeth. 

"While  ye  have  light,  believe  in  the  light,  that  ye  may  be  the  children 
of  light.    These  things  spoke  Jesus  and  departed,  and  hid  himself  from  them, 

"But  though  he  had  done  so  many  miracles  before  them,  yet  they  believed  not 
on  him: 

"That  the  saying  of  Esaias  the  prophet  might  be  fulfilled  which  he  spake, 
Lord,  who  hath  believed  our  report  ?  and  to  whom  hath  the  arm  of  the  Lord  been 
revealed?"  (John  12:35-40.) 

If  they  believed  not  in  Jesus  who  wrought  such  mighty  miracles 
among  them,  and  taught  them  as  no  other  person  could  do,  we  will  not 
be  discouraged  though  but  few  believe  our  report. 

It  is  a  satisfaction  to  have  been  right,  and  a  disappointment  to 
have  been  wrong  upon  any  question  that  may  have  engaged  our  atten- 
tion; and  the  more  important  the  question,  the  greater  the  satisfaction 
or  the  disappointment,  as  the  case  may  be. 

MEANING  OF  SALVATION 

The  most  important  question  that  has  ever  engaged  the  attention 
of  man  is  that  of  salvation,  of  what  it  consists  and  how  it  may  be 
obtained.  There  is,  perhaps,  no  other  question  upon  which  there  has 
been  such  a  diversity  of  opinion  and  understanding. 

As  sure  as  there  is  a  life  beyond  the  grave  and  that  the  soul  of 
man  is  immortal,  and  there  is  nothing  more  sure,  the  time  will  come 
when  it  will  be  universally  known  who  are  right  and  who  are  wrong 
in  their  understanding  of  salvation.  Then  will  the  satisfaction  and  the 
joy  of  those  who  have  been  right  be  supreme;  and  the  disappointment 
and  sorrow  of  those  who  have  been  wrong  will  be  terrible  to  endure. 

We  who  have  accepted  the  true  gospel  of  the  Redeemer,  and  by 
so  doing,  know  of  the  doctrine,  would  have  our  f ellowmen  to  accept 
it  also  and  thus  avert  the  terrible  consequences  of  a  mistaken  conception 
of  the  all-important  question  of  salvation. 

Wje  have  the  responsibility  to  preach  this  Gospel  of  the  kingdom 
in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations  before  the  end  shall 
come ;  and  we  are  trying  as  a  Church  and  the  membership  thereof  to  dis- 
charge ourselves  of  this  important  and  sacred  obligation. 

THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH'S  INSPIRED  WORDS 

In  the  language  of  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

"Shall  we  not  go  on  in  so  great  a  cause?  Go  forward  and  not  backward. 
Courage,  brethren;  and  on,  on  to  the  victory!  Let  your  hearts  rejoice,  and  be  ex- 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ceeding  glad.  Let  the  earth  break  forth  into  singing.  Let  the  dead  speak  forth 
anthems  of  eternal  praise  to  the  King  Immanuel,  who  hath  ordained  before 
the  world  was,  that  which  would  enable  us  to  redeem  them  out  of  their  prison; 
for  the  prisoner  shall  go  free. 

"Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy,  and  all  ye  valleys  cry  aloud,  and 
all  ye  seas  and  dry  land  tell  the  wonders  of  your  Eternal  King!  And 
ye  rivers,  and  brooks,  and  rills,  flow  down  with  gladness.  Let  the  woods 
and  all  the  trees  of  the  fields  praise  the  Lord;  and  ye  solid  rocks  weep 
for  joy !  And  let  the  sun,  moon,  and  the  morning  stars  sing  together, 
and  let  all  the  sons  of  God  shout  for  joy!  And  let  the  eternal  creations 
declare  his  name  forever  and  ever !  ^nd  again  I  say,  how  glorious 
is  the  voice  we  hear  from  heaven,  proclaiming  in  our  ears,  glory  and 
salvation,  and  honor,  and  immortality,  and  eternal  life;  kingdoms,  princi- 
palities, and  powers ! 

"Behold,  the  great  day  of  the  Lord  is  at  hand;  and  who  can  abide  the 
day  of  his  coming,  and  who  can  stand  when  he  appeareth?  For  he  is 
like  a  refiner's  fire  and  a  fuller's  soap  and  he  shall  sit  as  a  refiner  and 
purifier  of  silver,  and  he  shall  purify  the  sons  of  Levi,  and  purge  them  as  gold 
and  silver,  that  they  may  offer  unto  the  Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness.  Let 
us,  therefore,  as  a  Church  and  a  people,  and  as  Latter-day  Saints,  offer  unto 
the  Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness ;  and  let  us  present  in  his  holy  temple 
*  *  *  a  book  containing  the  record  of  our  dead,  which  shall  be  worthy  of  all 
acceptation."    (Doc.  and  Cov.  128 :22-24.) 

That  we  may  be  able  to  do  so  and  be  prepared  for  his  second  and 
glorious  coming  which  is  nigh  at  hand,  is  my  humble  prayer. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

"Then  Jesus  turned,  and  saw  them  following,  and  saith  unto  them, 
What  seek  Ye?  They  said  unto  him,  Rabbi,  where  abidest  thou?  He 
saith  unto  them,  Come  and  see." 

"What  seek  ye?"    "Master,  where  abidest  thou?"    "Come  and 

see." 

These  three  significant  expressions  were  probably  uttered  imme- 
diately following  the  Savior's  return  from  the  Mount  of  Temptation. 
"What  seek  ye?"  is  the  first  recorded  utterance  of  the  Savior  of  men 
as  he  entered  upon  his  public  ministry.  The  question,  "Master,  where 
abidest  thou?"  was  asked  by  two  disciples  of  John  the  Baptist,  un- 
doubtedly, Andrew  and  John. 

In  that  second  question,  I  read  some  such  meaning  as  this :  "Rabbi, 
where  can  we  find  Messiah  ?  Where  may  we  obtain  deliverance  from 
the  oppression  of  Rome,  or,  possibly,  deliverance  from  the,  evils  of  our 
age?"  The  Savior's  answer  is  most  significant  and  important.  If  I 
may  put  it  in  my  own  words  I  read  in  that  "Come  and  see,"  isuch  a 
fact  as  this :  If  you  will  follow  me,  you  yourselves  may  discover  the 
way." 

"what  seek  ye?" 

My  purpose  in  calling  your  attention  to  this  text  this  afternoon 
is  to  apply  those  questions  to  the  world  today.  Suppose  that  the  Son 
of  Man  said  to  mankind  in  the  present  age,  "What  seek  ye?"  what  would 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


79 


be  the  answer?  Many  would  say:  We  seek  pleasure;  some,  wealth; 
others,  fame  and  power;  but  the  most  thoughtful  would  answer,  We 
are  seeking  the  light  of  the  ages,  as  mankind  has  ever  sought.  We  are 
seeking  a  social  Utopia.  We  want  a  society  in  which  we  may  be  relieved 
of  some  of  the  ills  of  mankind,  free  from  the  troubles  and  toils  of  life. 

UNSUCCESSFUL  EXPERIMENTS 

With  every  progressive  age  of  the  world  intellectual,  noble-minded 
leaders  have  sought  for  a  better  way  of  living  than  that  which  was 
current.  The  good  life,  a  social  Utopia,  has  been  the  quest  of  the  ages. 
To  sense  the  need  of  reform  has  been  easy ;  to  achieve  it  has  been  diffi- 
cult and  often  well-nigh  impossible.  Ideas  and  suggestions  proposed 
by  the  wisest  of  men  have  seldom  been  practical,  often  fantastical ;  yet 
in  most  cases  the  world  in  general  has  been  made  better  by  the  dissem- 
inating of  new  ideas,  even  though  the  experiments  proved  failures  at 
the  time.   In  this  respect  the  century  just  past  has  been  no  exception. 

The  first  half  of  the  19th  century  was  marked  by  a  general  feeling 
of  social  unrest.  Observant  people  became  dissatisfied  with  social  and 
economic  conditions,  and  thinking  men  sought  for  remedial  changes. 
In  France,  early  in  the  century,  the  fanciful  theories  of  Charles  Fourier 
were  circulated.  He  attempted  to  outline  the  future  history  of  our 
globe  and  of  the  human  race  for  eighty  thousand  years.  Today  his 
books  aren't  even  read.  Robert  Owen  founded  a  commercial  society  at 
New  Harmony,  Indiana.  Although  supported  by  a  fortune  that  he  had 
amassed  by  intelligent  and  frugal  efforts,  and  although  he  was  |en- 
couraged  by  the  Duke  of  Kent  who  became  his  patron,  his  scheme 
for  the  betterment  of  mankind  came  to  naught  in  1827.  He  returned  to 
England  where  he  tried  several  similar  experiments  with  the  same  result. 

George  Ripley,  a  Unitarian  minister,  conceived  a  plan  of  "plain 
living  and  high  thinking."  He  had  as  his  associates  such  able  men  as 
Nathaniel  Hawthorne,  Charles  A.  Dana,  afterward  assistant  Secretary 
of  War  in  the  United  States,  and  John  S.  Dwight.  Ripley's  impulse 
was  really  religious  rather  than  economic,  and  "was  due  to  a  kind  of 
monastic  desire  for  withdrawal  from  a  sordid  world  rather  than  a  desire 
for  a  new  society."  He  and  his  associates  became  the  founders  of  what 
was  known  as  the  Brook  Farm,  a  "Great  Experiment"  as  it  was  called, 
to  make  the  world  an  agreeable  place  to  live  in.  It  came  to  an  end  in 
1846. 

"Some  of  these  Colonies"  writes  Phillip  Russell,  "were  religious 
in  purpose,  others  educational,  and  still  others  economic ;  but  all,  includ- 
ing Brook  Farm,  were  social  symptoms — rashes  and  growths  indicating 
a  sick  and  strained  America." 

THE  CHURCH  AS  A  SOCIAL  ORGANIZATION 

It  has  been  charged  by  a  cynical  writer  that  the  Mormon  Church 
was  but  one  more  excrescence  of  the  fermenting  body  politic  of  this 
religious-social  reaction. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  is  true  that  "religious  excitement"  led  Joseph  Smith  to  seek  the 
right  church,  the  proper  mode  of  worship,  the  right  way  to  live.  A  desire 
to  know  this  impelled  the  youth  to  seek  the  Lord  for  wisdom  in  the 
spring  of  1820,  the  greatest  result  of  the  answer  to  his  prayer  being  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  in  Peter  Wihitmer,  Sr's.  home,  on  Tuesday, 
April  6,  1830. 

In  considering  the  Church  purely  as  a  social  organizaton  having  as 
one  object,  at  least,  what  other  worthy  organizations  had  in  view;  viz., 
the  amelioration  of  social  ills,  and  the  advancement  of  mankind,  it  is  well 
to  keep  in  mind  at  the  outset  the  facts : 

First:  That  Joseph  Smith  was  unschooled  and  "unacquainted 
with  men  and  things."  Undoubtedly,  he  had  never  even  heard  of  Fou- 
rier's phalanxes,  the  Owen  experiment,  nor  any  other  scheme,  religious 
or  economic,  for  the  bettering  of  social  conditions ; 

Second  :  That  the  six  original  members  were  practically  unknown, 
were  financially  poor,  and  had  no  political  or  social  standing;  and 

Third :  That  Joseph  Smith  did  not  organize  the  Church  by  man's 
wisdom  but  by  divine  direction,  "in  accordance  with  the  order  of  the 
Church  as  recorded  in  the  New  Testament" . 

For  one  hundred  years  this  organization  has  survived  financial 
panics,  social  upheavals,  and  religious  turmoil,  and  today  conforms  to 
the  best  concepts  of  sociologists  as  a  means  of  supplying  the  highest 
needs  of  mankind. 

CHURCH  GOVERNMENT  IN  GENERAL 

"Government  represents  the  authority  of  the  group,  usually  exer- 
cised in  an  external  coercive  way,  to  enforce  the  will  of  the  group  upon 
its  individual  members."  That  government  is  best  which  has  as  its  aim 
the  administration  of  justice,  social  well-being  and  the  promotion  of 
prosperity  among  its  members. 

Considered  politically  the  world  is  upset  at  the  present  time  in  its 
opinion  as  to  the  best  form  of  government.  Wb  are  just  witnessing  the 
downfall  of  monarchies.  Rising  from  these  monarchial  ruins  have  come 
democracy  as  exemplified  chiefly  in  Great  Britain  in  her  dominions  and 
in  the  United  States;  the  dictatorship  of  the  proleteriat  as  in  Soviet 
Russia ;  and  the  Fascist  regime  in  Italy,  with  Mussolini  as  chief  dictator. 
It  is  apparent  that  men  are  seeking  for  a  better  form  of  government  than 
most  nations  now  have.  Will  they  find  it  in  the  government  by  a  dictator 
or  in  the  government  by  the  people,  or  in  a  combination  of  both  ? 

One  clear  writer,  Mr.  Kirkpatrick,  says  that  "Efficiency  and  prog- 
ress are  favored  when  the  government  is  such  that  the  local  community 
has  a  great  deal  of  responsibility  of  its  own  affairs  and  the  central  gov- 
ernment has  final  authority  to  introduce  those  institutions  and  rules  of 
procedure  that  have  been  shown  to  be  permanently  useful." 

Now  my  fellow  workers,  and  thinking  honest  men  of  the  world, 
take  that  fundamental  definition  of  true  government  and  see  how  admir- 
ably the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  conforms  to  it.    A  careful  analysis  of 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


81 


the  organization  of  the  Church  reveals  the  fact  that  it  embodies  all  the 
strength  of  a  strong  central  government  and  every  virtue  and  necessary  , 
safeguard  of  a  democracy. 

First,  it  has  the  authority  of  priesthood  without  the  vice  of  priest- 
craft, every  worthy  man  being  entitled  to  a  place  and  a  voice  in  the 
governing  quorums. 

Second,  it  offers  a  system  of  education,  universal  and  free  in  its 
application — the  safety  valve,  the  very  heart  and  strength  of  a  true 
democracy. 

Third,  it  offers  a  judicial  system  that  extends  justice  and  equal 
privileges  to  all  alike,  applicable  to  the  poor  and  to  the  millionaire. 

Fourth,  in  its  ecclesiastical  groupings  of  stakes  and  wards  and 
branches  and  districts,  efficiency  and  progress  are  enhanced  inasmuch  as 
every  local  group  attends  to  its  own  affairs,  and  yet  each  is  so  closely 
united  with  the  central  government  that  every  mode  of  procedure  proved 
useful  and  beneficial  to  the  people  can  be  adopted  without  delay  for  the 
good  of  the  entire  group. 

Truly,  from  the  standpoint  of  enhancing  efficiency  and  progress,  the 
Church  of  Christ  has  that  form  of  government  which  the  nations  today 
are  seeking. 

A  REVERSION  TO  THE  TEACHINGS  OF  CHRIST 

This  is  because  it  is  patterned  after  that  order  which  Christ  himself 
established.  I  call  your  attention  again  to  the  fact  that  the  Prophet  Jos- 
eph stated  on  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830,  that  the  Church  was  organized 
after  that  order  given  in  the  New  Testament.  I  read  recently  in  a  book 
published  last  year  by  Charles  A.  Ellwood,  Ph.  D.,  L.  L.  D.,  author  of 
"The  Social  Destiny  of  Man,"  that  "The  religion  of  the  future  cannot 
be  based  upon  historical  Christianity,  but  must,  in  order  to  avoid  mis- 
understanding, go  back  to  the  teachings  of  Christ,  as  recorded  in  the 
Gospels."  Isn't  it  significant  that  a  young  man  not  twenty-five  years 
of  age,  unacquainted  with  the  social  systems  of  his  age,  or  of  any  age, 
should  have  realized  and  declared  one  hundred  years  ago  just  what  this 
thinker  realizes  today ! 

Says  the  sociologist  of  1930:  "The  religion  of  the  future  must  go 
back  to  the  teachings  of  Christ,  as  recorded  in  the  Gospels." 

Said  Joseph  Smith  one  hundred  years  ago :  "The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  organized  in  accordance  with  the  order  of  the  Church  as 
recorded  in  the  New  Testament.  And  the  practical  and  beneficent  work- 
ings of  the  organization  prove  its  divine  authenticity." 

FUNDAMENTAL  ELEMENTS 

Mr.  A.  Euston  Haydon,  author  of  "The  Quest  of  the  Ages,"  names 
four  fundamental  elements  as  an  ideal  of  the  satisfying  life: 

First:  Man  must  feel  a  sense  of  security  in  regards  to  the  basic 
needs  of  living.  He  must  have  food,  shelter,  proper  family  relation- 
ships and  protection,  and  a  recognized  place  in  the  group. 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second:  Religion  must  contribute  to  the  joy  of  personality,  by 
permitting  individuals  to  share  in  racial  and  cultural  achievements.  This 
calls  for  an  educational  discipline  for  poise  and  self-control,  ability  to 
think,  in  order  to  live  more  abundantly  and  free  and  to  achieve  kindness 
and  tolerant  sympathy  for  all  people  through  understanding. 

Third:  The  joy  of  human  comradeship.  No  other  community 
or  organization  in  the  world  offers  sweeter,  more  wholesome  comrade- 
ship than  does  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  love  of  husband  and 
wife  is  an  eternal  bond,  not  sealed  lightly  in  frivolity  or  passion  but 
entered  into  by  premeditation,  careful  observation,  sacred  association 
and  prayer.  The  laughter  of  little  children  is  music  in  the  well-ordered 
home,  and  youthful  pleasures  and  associations  in  home,  ward  society 
and  auxiliary  organizations,  quorum  service,  and  mutual  helpfulness 
from  babyhood  to  old  age,  offer  an  opportunity  for  comradeship  that 
fills  the  soul  with  a  joy  that  is  unknown  to  the  sordid  and  self-indulgent. 

Fourth:  The  joy  of  contributing  something  of  value  to  the  com- 
mon life. 

Another  writer,  scanning  the  social  needs  of  the  world  today  with 
clear  vision  declares  that  "A  church  that  will  enthuse  men  not  only  for 
the  redemption  of  individuals  but  for  the  redemption  of  communities 
and  of  mankind  may  never  arrive.  But  if  not,  the  cause  of  Christ  will 
perish  from  the  earth. 

"I  see  the  church  as  a  life-boat  launched  to  save  a  stranded  world 
perishing  amidst  material  prosperity,  misdirected  scientific  achievements, 
and  moral  decay." 

The  author  quoted  says  further:  "We  are  witnessing  either  the 
crumbling  of  civilization  under  the  weight  of  its  material  mechanism, 
or  the  birth  of  a  new  world  organization  with  a'  spiritual  ideal." 

My  testimony  is  that  we  are  witnessing  the  birth,  or  rather  the 
continuance  of  a  great  spiritual  enlightenment. 

WHAT  OF  THE  FUTURE? 

What  of  the  future  ?  "Come  and  see."  "Life  abundant,  beauteous, 
laughing  life,"  more  brotherhood,  securer  peace,  better  social  relations 
are  some  of  the  fruits  of  Mormonism  as  seen  by  the  eye  of  faith. 

"The  increasing  prospect  tires  our  wandering  eyes. 
Hills  peep  o'er  hills,  and  Alps  on  Alps  arise." 

Can  you  not  see  many  nations  yet  to  hear  the  truth — Jew  as  well 
as  Gentile !  India  and  China  both  awakening,  Russia  but  in  the  throes 
of  the  birth  of  a  new  nation,  a  new  religious  freedom  it  must  be.  God 
will  overrule  it,  for  that  people  must  hear  the  truth,  and  the  truth  in 
simplicity.  Truly  there  is  much  for  the  Church  to  do  in  the  coming 
century ! 

THE  SOLUTION  OF  SOCIAL  PROBLEMS 

Brethren,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  in  it 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


83 


all  that  the  world  would  require.  I  am  not  associating  political  govern- 
ment with  our  religious  government ;  I  am  merely  pointing  out  that  sys- 
tem of  organization  established  by  the  revelations  of  God  to  man. 

Let  me  conclude :  The  Church,  established  by  divine  inspiration 
to  an  unlearned  youth,  offers  to  the  world  the  solution  of  all  its  social 
problems.  It  has  stood  the  test  of  the  first  century  successfully.  In 
the  midst  of  brilliant  concepts  of  men  in  this  twentieth  century,  who 
seek  conscientiously  for  social  reforms  and  who  peer  blindly  into  the 
future  to  read  the  destiny  of  man,  the  Church  shines  forth  as  the  sun 
in  the  heavens,  around  which  other  luminaries  revolve  as  satellites  of 
minor  importance.  Truly  it  is  the  creator  and  preserver  of  man's  high- 
est values.  Its  real  task,  the  redemption  of  our  human  world.  "It  is  the 
light  of  truth  radiating  everywhere  in  the  world,  and  this  light  cannot 
fail  to  reveal  to  man,  sooner  or  later,  the  divine  ideals  by  which  man 
should  live." 

God  help  us  and  qualify  us  for  the  mission  of  carrying  to  the 
world  this  light.  May  we  labor  even  more  zealously  than  heretofore  for 
the  establishment  of  a  social  order  in  which  God's  will  shall  be  done  on 
earth  as  it  is  in  heaven — a  kingdom  of  God  which  shall  foster  the  broth- 
erhood of  man  and  acknowledge  the  fatherhood  of  God.  May  we  so 
live  that  men  seeing  our  good  deeds  may  be  led  to  glorify  our  Father  in 
heaven,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang  a  sacred  selection,  "There  is  a  blessed  home,"  solo 
part  by  Alene  Peterson. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  had  hoped  my  turn  to  take  part  in  this  great  conference  would 
come  a  little  later,  that  I  might  have  time  to  partake  more  of  the  spirit 
of  the  occasion.  For  the  last  few  weeks  I  have  tried  to  fix  in  my  mind 
something  I  might  present  to  this  conference,  only  to  find  each  thought 
pushed  aside  with  a  vision  of  carpenters,  painters,  electricians,  drapery 
hangers,  printers,  and  the  task  of  greeting  the  mass  of  people  who 
come  here  expecting  to  view  the  wonderful  pageant  which  is  being 
given.  I  have  gone  home  in  the  evening  dizzy,  and  during  the  night  have 
dreamed  of  stacks  of  colored  cardboard  tickets  with  a  hundred  thousand 
people  pleading  for  them.  Such  temporal  duties  have  left  very  little  time 
to  think  of  the  spiritual,  which  above  all  else,  at  this  time  is  of  the 
greatest  importance.  And  so  I  come  before  you  relying  wholly  upon 
the  Spirit  of  God,  praying  for  your  prayers,  for  the  mercy  of  the  Lord, 
that  I  may  at  least  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  this  great  work. 

I  was  impressed  this  morning  with  the  remarks  of  Bishop  Cannon 
in  his  reference  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  and  I  hope  I  may  call  to 
your  attention  some  of  the  specific  requirements  of  that  revelation 
which  was  given  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  ninety-seven  years  ago,  three  years 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


after  the  Church  was  organized.  It  was  given  for  a  principle  with 
promise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the  weak,  or  the  weakest  of  all 
saints  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints.  It  applies  to  all  alike;  none 
is  exempt. 

As  we  stood  here  yesterday  morning  when  President  Grant  called 
for  a  standing  vote  from  that  great  body  of  men  holding  the  holy 
priesthood,  I  was  thrilled,  for  it  was  certainly  a  glorious  sight.  More 
than  seven,  thousand  men  stood  up.  They  are  leaders  in  Zion,  clean 
in  mind  and  body.  They  are,  indeed,  temples  of  the  living  God, 
temples  in  which  the  Spirit  of  God  dwelleth.  They  are  spiritually 
minded  men  whose  lives  are  given  to  thought  and  work,  not  alone  of 
this  life,  but  also  the  preparation  for  an  exaltation  in  the  life  to  come, 
eternal  life,  not  in  the  telestial  or  terrestrial  kingdoms  of  our  Father,  but 
in  the  celestial  where  he  dwelleth.  Every  man  in  this  building  yesterday 
morning  was,  I  believe,  an  observer  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  far  as 
it  pertains  to  the  use  of  wine,  strong  drink,  and  tobacco,  not  .because  the 
Church  requires  that  its  officers  refrain  from  their  use,  but  because  of 
their  faith  and  their  desire  to  merit  the  blessings  God  has  promised 
his  children. 

It  is  unnecessary  for  me  to  tell  you  why  liquor  and  tobacco  are 
not  good,  for  I  believe  you  know  as  well  as  I  the  bad  effects  upon  the 
body  and  spiritual  condition  of  Church  members  who  use  them,  but 
I  am  not  so  sure  that  we  all  understand  this  revelation  in  its  reference  to 
other  matters  of  equal  importance.  The  other  day  a  prominent  doctor, 
not  a  member  of  the  Church,  asked  me  if  I  ever  read  Section  89  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants.  I  answered  that  I  had  read  it  at  least  once 
a  month  for  years  and  that  obedience  to  its  teaching  had  saved  me  from 
the  doctor's  knife.  He  answered  that  he  seldom  retired  at  night 
without  reading  it,  and  that  he  never  reads  it  that  he  does  not  receive 
some  helpful  suggestion ;  and  then  he  added,  "I  tell  you,  if  your  people 
would  read  it  and  observe  it  to  the  letter,  there  would  be  very  little 
for  doctors  to  do,  for  in  my  opinion,  it  is  the  greatest  health  document 
in  existence." 

Through  that  revelation  we  are  warned  that  "in  consequence  of 
evils  and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring 
men  in  the  last  days,"  we  are  to  be  warned  and  forewarned.  It  was 
given  for  the  benefit  of  the  council  of  High  Priests  and  all  the  saints 
in  Zion,  and  was  to  be  sent  greeting,  not  by  commandment  or  constraint, 
but  by  revelation,  and  the  Word  of  Wisdom  showing  forth  the  order 
and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salvation  of  all  saints  in  the  last  days. 
"Given  for  a  principle  with  promise,  adapted  to  the  capacity  of  the 
weak  and  the  weakest  of  all  saints,  who  are  or  can  be  called  saints." 

First,  wine,  strong  drinks,  tobacco,  and  hot  drinks  are  mentioned 
as  being  ,"Not  good  in  the  sight  of  our  Father."  Because  tea  and  coffee 
are  not  mentioned,  some  excuse  themselves  in  their  use,  for  they  say 
they  do  not  take  them  hot.  I  heard  a  brother  sometime  ago,  perhaps  to 
justify  himself  in  his  desire  to  indulge  his  appetite,  say  that  he  would 
not  be  surprised  if  someone  would  come  along  and  attempt  to  forbid 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


85 


the  use  of  hot  soup.  I  told  him  provision  had  already  been  made  for 
that. 

I  shall  not  attempt  to  interpret  the  meaning  of  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, for  to  me  it  is  clear,  but  may  I  call  your  attention  to  statements 
made  by  others  by  way  of  comparison.  Hyrum  Smith,  brother  of  the 
Prophet,  delivered  a  sermon  on  "The  Word  of  Wisdom,"  soon  after 
this  revelation  was  received  by  Joseph  Smith.  In  this  sermon  the 
Patriarch  of  the  Church,  who  was  sustained  with  Joseph  Smith  as  a 
prophet,  seer,  and  revelator,  warned  the  Church  against  the  use  of  tea 
and  coffee,  which  he  said  were  injurious  to  the  mind  and  body. 

It  is  interesting  to  note  that  scientists  and  medical  men  have 
given  more  thought  to  and  have  conducted  a  more  extensive  research 
into  the  field  of  foods  and  food  values  during  the  last  fifty  years  than 
during  all  the  history  of  the  world  before,  and  that  the  results  of  their 
research  harmonize  with  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

Recent  medical  publications  make  the  following  statement: 

"Coffee  and  tea  do  more  harm  than  good.  Caffene  and  tannic  acid  are  the 
harmful  agents  in  these  beverages.  Children  should  not  have  coffee  or  tea. 
Tea  retards  digestion."  "Extremes  of  cold  and  heat  produce  gastric  catarrh." 
"Piping  hot  broth  or  coffee  is  grateful  on  a  cold  day,  so  is  ice-cream  on  a 
hot  day,  but  extreme  hot  temperatures  in  the  stomach  are  detrimental.  Food 
repeatedly  taken  too  hot  or  too  cold  may  give  rise  to  disturbances.  Too  hot 
food  may  be  the  cause  of  stomach  disease.  Note  the  frequency  of  ulcers  among 
cooks.  This  may  be  due  to  the  fact  that  they  are  constantly  tasting  hot  things 
which  they  are  cooking.  'The  excessive  use  of  pepper  and  spices  may  cause 
irritation  of  the  stomach  and  intestines.  Mustard  is  used  altogether  too  lavishly. 
Its  real  place  is  -for  external  rather  than  for  internal  use.  It  congests  and 
blisters  tough  skin." 

Referring  to  that  which  is  good  for  man,  the  Lord  places  first, 
wholesome  herbs,  which  he  "hath  ordained  for  the  constitution,  nature, 
and  use  of  man — every  herb  in  the  season  thereof,  and  every  fruit  in 
the  season  thereof ;  all  these  to  be  used  with  prudence  and  thanksgiving." 
These  are  called  by  the  dieticians  high  residual  foods,  or  fodder  vege- 
tables. They  are  nourishing  and  give  bulk  to  the  stool.  These  foods 
are  thus  excellent  for  constipation.  "Recent  research  suggests  that 
in  the  colon  is  found  the  origin  of  many  chronic  ills  and  the  untimely 
aging  of  the  body.  Fibrous  herbs,  fruits  and  vegetables  help  to  correct 
these  conditions.  These  foods  also  contain  a  great  amount  of  the 
health-giving  elements  called  vitamins.  Scientists  have  discovered 
that  vitamins,  when  kept,  oxidize;  the  vitamin  percentage,  therefore, 
in  canned  foods,  decreases  directly  with  the  age  of  the  product.  This 
food  element  when  taken  in  sufficient  quantity,  prevents  certain  diseases." 
This  may  explain  why  the  Lord  advised  that  they  be  eaten  in  the 
season  thereof.  Again  we  read  from  the  revelations,  "Yea,  flesh  also 
of  beasts  and  of  the  fowls  of  the  air,  I,  the  Lord,  have  ordained  for  the 
use  of  man  with  thanksgiving ;  nevertheless  they  are  to  be  used  spar- 
ingly." The  scientist  says,  "It  is  now  proved  that  meat  eating  is  not 
essential  to  health  and  strength.  The  fundamental  constituent  of  meat  is 
proteid  or  albumen.  This  is  found  abundantly  in  milk,  eggs,  beans, 
peas  and  lentils.    Medical  science  definitely  knows  that  meat  diet  is 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


harmful  and  dangerous  in  the  presence  of  a  number  of  diseases."  Dr. 
Herser,  a  man  of  international  reputation  has  said,  "That  in  all  cases 
of  chronic  rheumatism,  his  main  advice  and  treatment  is,  simply  stop 
eating  meat!"  "If  food,  particularly  meat,  is  improperly  masticated, 
it  may  pass  into  the  colon  partly  digested.  In  this  stage  it  is  excellent 
culture  media  for  pathogenic  bacteria."  Many  of  the  minor  ills  of 
daily  life  are  due  to  abdominal  bacterial  activity  in  the  alimentary  tract." 

The  Lord  says,  "All  grain  is  ordained  for  the  use  of  man  *  *  * 
to  be  the  staff  of  life."  The  modern  scientist  says,  "Whole  wheat  bread 
is  fast  becoming  the  bread  of  choice,"  among  those  interested  in 
health  preservation.  Unfortunately  much  of  the  whole  wheat  bread 
served  is  made  with  a  liberal  amount  of  white  flour.  Graham  flour  is 
composed  of  the  carefully  ground  unbolted  entire  wheat  kernel,  and 
that  contains  all  the  constituents  of  the  wheat.  Every  family  would  be 
healthier  if  whole  wheat  products  were  substituted  for  white  flour. 
The  promise  to  those  who  follow  this  instruction  is  that  they  "Shall 
receive  health  in  their  navel,  and  marrow  to  their  bones ;  and  shall  find 
wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden  treasures ;  and 
shall  run  and  not  be  weary,  and  shall  walk  and  not  faint;"  and  the 
Lord  gives  unto  them  a  promise,  "That  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass 
by  them." 

Is  it  not  worth  our  while  to  become  familiar  with  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  and  live  according  to  its  teachings,  that  we  may  enjoy  these 
blessings  which  follow  in  a  natural  way,  as  do  all  of  God's  blessings, 
for  they  are  based  upon  his  laws  and  come  to  us  as  a  reward  of  faith 
and  obedience? 

I  believe  this  revelation  to  be  the  word  of  God  and  given  to  us 
as  a  principle  with  promises  and  I  am  happy  to  so  testify  to  you  at  this 
time. 

May  I  ask  that  you  pardon  a  personal  incident.  The  other  day 
we  were  assembling  a  number  of  pictures  to  send  to  Europe.  We  had 
a  number  ready  for  distribution.  In  making  the  selection,  I  stated, 
that  we  had  one  of  the  Prophet  but  did  not  have  one  of  grandfather. 
Just  a  few  moments  before  a  prominent  brother  had  entered  the  office 
and  heard  the  preceding  remarks.  He  interrupted  by  saying,  "I  have 
never  before  heard  Hyrum  Smith  spoken  of  in  that  way."  I  asked 
what  seemed  to  be  wrong  with  the  statement.  "Well,"  said  he,  "I 
guess  it's  all  right  but  it  sounded  a  little  strange  to  me."  When  he  left 
his  words  remained  with  me.  What  right  had  I  to  speak  of  Hyrum 
Smith  in  that  apparently  familiar  way  ?  Although  a  grandson  by  birth, 
I  had  not  known  him  in  life.  Had  I  assumed  a  manner  of  self- 
exaltation?  My  answer  is,  that  from  my  early  childhood  I  have  been 
taught  and  encouraged  to  pray  to  an  all-wise  and  merciful  Personage, 
who  dwells  in  heaven.  That  this  Personage,  in  whose  image  I  have 
been  created,  is  my  Heavenly  Father.  That  he  is  good,  kind,  merciful 
and  loving  and  that  when  necessary  he  will  chastise  his  children.  That 
we  are  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in  all  things  and  he  will  hear  and  answer 
our  prayers  when  we  approach  him  in  faith  not  wavering. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


87 


I  have  not  seen  God  but  I  have  felt  the  power  of  his  Spirit  as  I 
have  approached  him  in  prayer,  and  never  yet  has  he  failed  to  comfort 
me. 

Through  the  teachings  and  example  of  my  father,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
I  discovered  in  the  life  and  labors  of  his  father,  Hyrum  Smith,  those 
attributes  which  are  God-given  and  which  have  become  a  very  part  of 
all  those  who  hope  to  gain  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  It 
has  not  been  difficult  for  me  to  have  faith  in  God  and  I  have  learned 
to  look  upon  Hyrum  Smith,  whom  I  am  permitted  to  call  grandfather, 
as  one  of  God's  noble  men — one  who  has  gone  back  to  his  presence. 
As  a  boy  I  had  very  little  opportunity  to  really  know  my  father,  but  the 
last  years  of  his  life  I  was  almost  his  constant  companion.  He  was  a 
man  of  God,  full  of  the  spirit  of  love.  His  life  was  filled  with  righteous- 
ness and  although  his  words  and  example  are  constantly  before  me 
I  find  that  I  have  been  left  an  heritage  difficult  to  carry.  If  I  have 
failed,  it  is  not  because  of  lack  of  faith  in  God  or  in  his  promises  to  his 
children,  but  because  of  my  inability  to  climb  even  part  way  to  the 
heights  to  which  they  have  attained.  In  my  soul  I  know  that  God 
lives  and  does  hear  and  answer  prayers.  I  know  that  Joseph  and 
Hyrum  Smith  were  prophets  of  God,  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  walked  in 
their  footsteps.  Their  lives  have  been  an  example  and  a  source  of 
inspiration  to  me  which  has  helped  me  to  a  better  understanding  of  God 
and  his  purposes.  And  while  I  may  have  fallen  far  short  with  such 
examples  to  encourage  me  I  have  always  felt  in  my  soul  to  do  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven  and  so  live  that  I  may  at  last  be 
worthy  of  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  where  I  know  their 
exaltation  will  be. 

To  me  the  only  thing  in  life  worth  while  is  to  obtain  that  goal.  If 
I  should  fail  then  what  is  life?  Nothing.  For  the  purpose  of  our 
existence  in  the  earth  is  an  exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  and  I  know  that  the  only  way  that  may  be  is  through 
faithful  service  rendered  in  obedience  to  his  laws.  I  rejoice  that  I 
can,  in  my  very  soul,  testify  of  these  things.  May  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  continue  to  rest  upon  us  and  help  us  to  carry  on  his  great  purposes 
in  the  earth  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

You  may  not  be  aware  of  the  fact  that  for  some  time — I  think 
it  is  about  thirty  weeks — at  four  o'clock  every  Monday  afternoon,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  Organ  are  broadcasting  throughout  most  of 
the  United  States.  This  is  being  done  by  means  of  the  largest  and 
most  powerful  radio  stations  to  be  found  in  the  country.  These  broad- 
casts go  to  New  York,  Washington,  Baltimore,  Atlanta,  Pittsburgh, 
Chicago,  Toronto,  Kansas  City,  St.  Paul,  Minneapolis,  St.  Louis, 
Cincinnati,  Denver,  Portland,  Oakland,  San  Francisco,  and  other  cities ; 
and  it  is  estimated  that  more  than  eight  million  people  hear  them. 

We  would  be  pleased  to  hear  from  another  speaker  this  afternoon, 
but  time  will  not  permit.   By  the  time  we  have  heard  the  closing  anthem 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  the  benediction  it  will  be  necessary  for  this  body  of  people  to  with- 
draw, unless  they  would  like  to  remain  here  and  listen  to  the  broadcast. 
If  you  stay  we  request  that  you  be  very  quiet.  There  must  be  no 
whispering.  Ordinarily,  when  this  broadcast  is  going  on,  no  one  except 
the  choir  is  allowed  in  the  building.  If  someone  has  to  cough  we  hope 
that  he  will  smother  it  as  best  he  can  by  the  use  of  a  handkerchief. 

As  I  look  upon  this  audience  I  am  impressed  with  the  wonderful 
fulfilment  of  the  prediction  of  Joseph  Smith  which  was  delivered  on  the 
west  side  of  the  Mississippi  river  and  recorded  in  the  journal  of  Brother 
Anson  Call : 

"I  prophesy  that  the  saints  will  continue  to  suffer  much  affliction,  and  will 
be  driven  to  the  Rocky  Mountains ;  many  will  apostatize,  others  will  be  put  to 
death  by  our  persecutors,  or  lose  their  lives  in  consequence  of  exposure  or 
disease;  and  some  will  live  to  go  and  assist  in  making  settlements,  and  build 
cities,  and  see  the  Saints  become  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of  the  Rocky 
Mountains." 

What  a  mighty  people  we  are !  As  I  look  upon  this  audience  today 
and  think  of  the  wonderful  audiences  that  we  had  at  all  our  meetings 
yesterday,  and  when  I  think  of  the  seven  hundred  thousand  people  who 
are  now  members  of  the  Church,  I  rejoice  in  the  fulfilment  of  this 
prediction  by  Joseph  Smith. 

Daniel  Webster,  acknowledged  to  be  one  of  the  greatest,  and  claimed 
by  some  to  be  the  very  greatest,  of  all  our  senators  in  his  day,  referring 
to  this  country  where  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  said  we  should  become 
a  great  and  a  mighty  people,  made  the  remark : 

"What  do  we  want  with  this  vast,  worthless  area?  This  region  of  savages  and 
wild  beasts,  of  deserts,  of  shifting  sands  and  whirlwinds  of  dust,  of  cactus  and 
prairie  dogs?  To  what  use  could  we  ever  hope  to  put  those  great  deserts  or 
those  endless  mountain  ranges,  impenetrable  and  covered  to  their  very  base 
with  eternal  snow?  What  can  we  ever  hope  to  do  with  the  western  coast  of 
three  thousand  miles,  rock-bound,  cheerless,  uninviting,  and  not  a  harbor  on  it? 
Mr.  President,  I  will  never  vote  one  cent  from  the  public  treasury  to  place  the 
Pacific  Coast  one  inch  nearer  Boston  than  it  now  is." 

"Shout  ye  hosanna,"  an  anthem,  was  sung  by  the  choir,  solo  part 
by  Bob  Robinson. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  James  W.  Funk,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Benson  Stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Tuesday  morning,  April  8th,  at  10:00. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  conference  commenced  promptly  at  10:00 
a.  m.,  Tuesday,  April  8th,  with  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Latter-day  Saints 
College  Festival  Chorus,  Elder  George  H.  Durham,  conductor. 

The  chorus  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  ye  mountains 
high." 

Elder  Edward  H.  Snow  offered  the  invocation. 

The  chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "Arise,  shine,  for  the  light  has  come." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  need  your  faith  and  help  this 
morning,  and  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  I  have  no  set 
theme  to  present  to  you,  but  if  I  may  be  led  by  the  spirit  of  truth  I 
desire  to  bear  witness  of  the  truth  and  re-affirm  before  you  my  faith. 

REAFFIRMATION  OF  FAITH 

I  believe  in  God  the  Father  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  in 
the  Holy  Ghost.  I  believe,  without  any  reservation,  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  the  Son-  of  God  and  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  I  believe  that 
through  the  shedding  of  his  blood  he  brought  redemption  to  this  earth 
and  to  all  things  upon  its  face,  and,  through  obedience  to  the  Gospel 
he  has  given  unto  all  men  the  privilege  of  the  remission  of  their  sins ; 
for  he  has  suffered  for  all,  that  they  might  not  suffer  if  they  will  repent. 
I  believe  that  through  obedience  to  the  Gospel  all  who  believe  on  his 
name  and  endure  in  faith  to  the  end  shall  be  saved  in  the  celestial 
kingdom  in  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

I  believe  it  is  the  purpose  of  the  Father  to  bring  to  pass  the 
redemption  of  all  men  from  death  and  from  hell,  except  those  who 
turn  away  from  the  light  and  the  truth  after  having  received  it,  thus 
becoming  sons  of  perdition.  I  believe  that  our  Father  has  prepared 
a  place  for  every  man  according  to  his  works  and  worthiness,  but 
only  through  obedience  to  his  laws  in  their  fulness  will  men  come  back 
into  the  presence  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  receive  an  exaltation  as 
sons  and  joint  heirs  with  Jesus  Christ. 

I  believe  sincerely  and  absolutely  in  the  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  I  have  faith,  yes,  the  knowledge,  that  he  was  called  of 
God  and  is  a  prophet  and  that  he  stands  at  the  head  of  this  great 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  I  believe  he  was  chosen  to 
this  mission  before  the  foundation  of  the  world  was  laid,  and  that 
he  filled  it  acceptably  before  the  Lord,  in  diligence  and  faith,  in 
the  midst  of  constant  persecution.    He  was  called  to  give  to  the 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


world  the  light  and  fulness  of  the  Gospel  that  through  it  men  might 
be  saved  and  come  back  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  VISIONS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  first  vision,  in  which  the  Father  and  the 
Son  appeared  to  the  youthful  prophet  and  again  restored  to  man  the 
true  knowledge  of  God.  I  am  grateful  for  the  coming  of  Moroni, 
revealing  the  everlasting  Gospel,  and  making  known  again  to  the  world 
the  fact  that  God  is  the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever;  that  the 
heavens  are  not  sealed  and  God  will  and  does  inspire  men  in  this  age 
and  generation  as  well  as  he  did  in  times  of  old.  I  believe  that  the 
people  upon  the  earth  today  are  just  as  precious  in  the  sight  of  the 
Lord  as  were  the  people  who  lived  anciently,  and  just  as  much  entitled 
to  guidance  as  they  who  lived  in  former  times,  when  the  Lord  revealed 
himself  to  them  in  person  and  through  his  prophets.  I  believe  that 
the  reason  the  Lord  has  not  revealed  himself  to  man  in  the  ages  that 
are  past,  when  the  Gospel  was  not  on  the  earth,  is  that  man  rejected 
him  and  refused  to  be  guided  by  his  divine  truth. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  RESTORATION  OF  KEYS  OF  AUTHORITY 

I  am  grateful  for  the  coming  of  Peter,  James  and  John,  and, 
preceding  them,  John  the  Baptist,  to  restore  the  priesthood  of  God, 
that  authority  might  be  on  the  earth  through  which  men  receive  re- 
mission of  their  sins  and  may  come  back  into  the  kingdom  through 
their  faithfulness.  I  am  exceedingly  thankful  for  the  Church  and  that 
again  the  Lord  has  established  in  the  earth  the  same  organization  which 
existed  primitively  and  which  was  taken  from  the  earth  because  of  the 
wickedness  of  men,  and  not,  as  I  have  said,  because  God  willed  it ;  not 
because  he  has  shown  favoritism,  but  because  the  people  themselves 
refused  to  hear  the  prophets  and  turned  from  the  truth. 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  coming  of  Moses,  Elias  and  Elijah, 
restoring  further  keys,  and  in  fact  for  the  coming  of  all  the  prophets 
from  the  days  of  Adam  to  the  time  of  Peter,  James  and  John.  For 
by  these  prophets  the  keys  of  all  the  dispensations  past  have  [been 
restored  in  this  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  that  the  work 
of  the  Lord  might  be  made  complete  according  to  the  promies  made 
by  our  Lord  and  by  his  servants.  Paul  has  said  the  Lord  purposed 
in  himself  "that  in  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times  he  might 
gather  together  in  one  all  things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven, 
and  which  are  on  earth." 

I  am  very  grateful  for  the  temples;  for  the  sealing  power  which 
Elijah  restored  to  Joseph  Smith,  which  made  it  possible  for  the  family 
to  be  preserved  as  a  unit  forever,  husbands  and  wives  having  claim 
upon  each  other,  and  children  having  claim  on  their  parents,  through 
obedience  to  the  ordinances  of  the  temple  of  the  Lord.  I  am  grateful 
that  the  knowledge  has  been  revealed  and  the  authority  given  for  the 
redemption  of  the  dead  who  have  died  without  a  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel,  but  who  would  have  received  it  had  that  opportunity  come ;  in 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  91 


fact,  for  all  the  ordinances  of  the  house  of  the  Lord  by  which  the  fulness 
of  salvation  comes. 

THANKFUL  FOR   NEW  WITNESSES 

I  am  thankful  for  the  great  volume  of  scripture  which  has  been 
revealed,  restoring  to  the  Hebrew  scriptures  many  of  the  most  plain 
and  precious  parts  that  were  taken  away  through  the  wickedness  and 
unbelief  of  the  world.  I  am  thankful  for  the  witnesses  the  Lord 
raised  up  who  have  testified  in  this  dispensation  that  God  lives,  for 
they  saw  him  and  conversed  with  him  and  with  his  holy  angels. 
Above  all,  I  am  most  grateful  for  the  testimony  of  the  truth  which  I 
have  received  myself  that  all  these  things  are  true. 

BORN  OF  GOODLY  PARENTS 

I  am  grateful  that  I  have  been  born  of  goodly  parents  who  taught 
me  to  walk  in  the  light  of  the  truth.  From  my  earliest  recollection,  from 
the  time  I  first  could  read,  I  have  received  more  pleasure  and  greater 
satisfaction  out  of  the  study  of  the  scriptures,  and  reading  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  work  that  has 
been  accomplished  for  the  salvation  of  men,  than  from  anything  else  in 
all  the  world.  The  Lord  has  given  me  a  testimony  of  the  truth  which 
I  pray  may  abide  with  me  forever.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and 
is  a  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  that  he  holds  the  keys  of  this 
dispensation.  More  than  this — and  I  hope  I  may  be  pardoned  for 
the  references  I  am  about  to  make — I  am  grateful  for  my  lineage.  I 
am  very  thankful  to  my  Father  in  heaven  that  I  am  the  son  of  my 
Father  and  the  son  of  my  grandfather.  May  I  say  to  you  that  I  am  not 
boasting,  but  I  am  speaking,  I  hope  and  fully  believe,  in  the  spirit  of 
humility  in  saying  this.  I  cannot  express  my  gratitude  fully  that  my 
father  remained  faithful  and  obedient  to  the  Gospel  and  the  Church 
all  his  days,  and  that  he  taught  his  children  to  love  the  truth  and  to 
be  loyal  to  the  message  delivered  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
and  to  honor  the  name  they  bear.  Let  me  say  something  which  I  think 
is  not  generally  known. 

HYRU'M  SMITH  HELD  KEYS  JOINTLY  WITH  THE  PROPHET  JOSEPH 

My  grandfather,  the  Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith,  was  called  to  hold 
the  keys  of  this  dispensation  jointly  with  the  Prophet  Joseph,  his  younger 
brother.  The  Lord  has  said  that  in  the  mouths  of  two  witnesses  shall 
all  things  be  established.  When  the  Jews  accused  our  Lord  of  not 
fulfilling  the  law,  because  he  stood  alone  and  had  no  witness  to  speak 
for  him  and  testify  to  the  divine  nature  of  his  mission,  he  answered 
them: 

"Ye  judge  after  the  flesh ;  I  judge  no  man. 

"And  yet  if  I  judge,  my  judgment  is  true :  for  I  am  not  alone,  but  I  and 
the  Father  that  sent  me. 

"It  is  also  written  in  your  law,  that  the  testimony  of  two  men  is  true. 

"I  am  one  that  bear  witness  of  myself,  and  the  Father  that  sent  me  beareth 
witness  of  me." 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Joseph  Smith  could  not  have  stood  alone,  else  his  work  would 
have  failed,  just  as  the  work  of  the  Savior  required  the  confirmation  of 
another  witness,  and  who  could  testify  for  Christ  other  than  his  Father  ? 
And  so  the  Lord  called  another  man  to  stand  with  Joseph  Smith  and 
to  hold  the  keys  of  salvation  in  this  dispensation  as  a  witness  with  him. 
The  Prophet  Joseph  was  alone  in  his  first  vision.  He  was  alone  when 
the  Angel  Moroni  first  came  to  him  and  revealed  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
but  whenever  keys  were  to  be  bestowed ;  when  the  Lord  had  light  and 
information  to  reveal  in  which  the  power  of  priesthood  was  to  play  a 
part,  Joseph  Smith  and  one  other  witness  received  the  blessings. 

OLIVER  COWDEEY'S  APPOINTMENT 

It  was  Oliver  Cowdery  who  was  appointed  to  stand  with  Joseph 
Smith  to  hold  the  keys  of  this  dispensation.  It  was  Oliver  Cowdery 
who,  with  Joseph  Smith,  received  the  priesthood  of  Aaron  under  the 
hands  of  John  the  Baptist.  It  was  Oliver  Cowdery  who  received  the 
authority  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  with  Joseph  Smith  from 
Peter,  James  and  John.  It  was  Oliver  Cowdery  who  knelt  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  in  the  Kirtland  temple  in  1836,  when  Moses  and  Elias 
and  Elijah  came  with  the  keys  of  their  dispensations.  I  am  convinced 
that  if  we  had  the  full  record,  we  would  discover  that  Oliver  Cowdery 
was  associated  with  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  when  the  keys  of  all 
the  other  dispensations  were  revealed  and  restored  in  this  dispensation. 
In  this  manner  Oliver  Cowdery  was  appointed  and  ordained  to  stand 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  an  associate  and  witness,  holding 
all  the  authority  and  keys  of  this  most  glorious  of  all  dispensations — the 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times. 

KEYS  OF  POWER  AND  AUTHORITY  TAKEN  FROM  OLIVER 

Unfortunately — at  least  unfortunately  for  Oliver  Cowdery,  who 
was  called  to  this  wonderful  and  responsible  position,  jointly  associated 
with  Joseph  Smith  holding  all  the  authority  and  presidency  in  this 
dispensation — Oliver,  in  a  spirit  of  rebellion  and  darkness,  turned  away. 
He  lost  his  fellowship  in  the  Church,  the  power  of  the  priesthood 
was  taken  from  him,  and  for  a  season  he  stood  excommunicated  from 
the  Church.  Fortunately  he  eventually  overcame  this  spirit  of  darkness 
and  humbly  came  back  and  received  his  membership  in  the  Church, 
but  never  again  was  he  privileged  to  receive  the  keys  of  power  and 
authority  which  once  were  placed  upon  him. 

ANOTHER  WITNESS  CHOSEN 

That  this  testimony  of  witnesses  might  be  continued  and  made 
complete,  the  Lord  chose  another  to  take  the  place  of  Oliver  Cowdery, 
and  that  other  witness  was  the  Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith.  By  revelation 
through  Joseph  Smith,  Hyrum  was  called  and  ordained  to  the  priesthood 
and  standing  once  held  by  Oliver  Cowdery.  Hyrum  Smith  received 
a  double  portion,  not  only  was  he  called  to  become  the  Patriarch  of  the 
Church,  which  was  his  birthright,  but  at  the  same  time  the  Lord  said 
to  him: 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  93 


"And  from  this  time  forth  I  appoint  unto  him  that  he  may  be  a  prophet, 
and  a  seer,  and  a  revelator  unto  my  church,  as  well  as  my  servant  Joseph; 

"That  he  may  act  in  concert  also  with  my  servant  Joseph ;  and  that  he 
shall  receive  counsel  from  my  servant  Joseph,  who  shall  show  unto  him  the 
keys,  whereby  he  may  ask  and  receive,  and  be  crowned  with  the  same  blessing, 
and  glory,  and  honor,  and  priesthood,  and  gifts  of  the  priesthood,  that  once 
were  put  upon  him  that  was  my  servant  Oliver  Cowdery ; 

"That  my  servant  Hyrum  may  bear  record  of  the  things  which  I  shall 
show  unto  him,  that  his  name  may  be  had  in  honorable  remembrance  from 
generation  to  generation,  forever  and  ever." 

In  accord  with  this  calling  and  commandment,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  conferred  upon  Hyrum  Smith  all  the  keys,  authority  and  gifts 
of  the  priesthood  which  he,  the  Prophet,  held,  and  which  were  formerly 
held  by  Oliver  Cowdery.  The  Lord  also  revealed  to  Hyrum  Smith 
all  that  was  necessary  to  make  him  completely  and  to  the  full  degree,  a 
witness  with  his  brother  Joseph,  as  a  prophet,  seer,  revelator  and 
president  of  the  Church,  and  to  stand  through  all  time  and  all  eternity 
at  the  head  of  this  dispensation  with  his  brother  Joseph,  a  witness  for 
Jesus  Christ. 

JOINT  MARTYRS 

Thus,  we  see,  Hyrum  Smith  became  a  president  of  the  Church  with 
Joseph  Smith,  which  place  Oliver  Cowdery  might  have  held  had  he 
not  wavered  and  fallen  from  his  exalted  station.  I  am  firmly  of  the 
opinion  that  had  Oliver  Cowdery  remained  true  to  his  covenants 
and  obligations  as  a  witness  with  Joseph  Smith,  and  retained  his  au- 
thority and  place,  he,  and  not  Hyrum  Smith,  would  have  gone  with 
Joseph  Smith  as  a  prisoner  and  to  martyrdom  at  Carthage. 

The  sealing  of  the  testimony  through  the  shedding  of  blood  would 
not  have  been  complete  in  the  death  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  alone ; 
it  required  the  death  of  Hyrum  Smith  who  jointly  held  the  keys  of  this 
dispensation.  It  was  needful  that  these  martyrs  seal  their  testimony 
with  their  blood,  that  they  "might  be  honored  and  the  wicked  might 
be  condemned." 

Joseph's  opinion  of  his  brother 

Now  if  I  may  take  just  a  moment  or  two  longer — there  are  many 
things  I  would  like  to  say,  but  time  forbids — I  would  like  to  read  to 
you  the  opinion  of  the  Prophet  expressed  of  his  brother  Hytrum, 
who  was  almost  six  years  older.   This  is  what  the  Prophet  says': 

"Brother  Hyrum,  what  a  faithful  heart  you  have  got!  Oh  may  the  Eternal 
Jehovah  crown  eternal  blessings  upon  your  head,  as  a  reward  for  the  care  you 
have  had  for  my  soul !  O  how  many  are  the  sorrows  we  have  shared  together ; 
and  again  we  find  ourselves  shackled  with  the  unrelenting  hand  of  oppression. 
Hyrum,  thy  name  shall  be  written  in  the  book  of  the  Law  of  the  Lord,  for 
those  who  come  after  thee  to  look  upon,  that  they  may  pattern  after  thy  works." 

On  another  occasion  the  Prophet  said: 

"I  could  pray  in  my  heart  that  all  my  brethren  were  like  unto  my  beloved 
brother  Hyrum,  who  possesses  the  mildness  of  a  lamb,  and  the  integrity  of  a 
Job,  and  in  short,  the  meekness  and  humility  of  Christ;  and  I  love  him  with 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  love  that  is  stronger  than  death,  for  I  never  had  occasion  to  rebuke  him, 
nor  he  me,  which  he  declared  when  he  left  me  today." 

THE  CHILDREN  OF  THE  PROPHET 

All  my  life  I  have  prayed  and  hoped  that  the  Lord  would  touch 
the  hearts  of  the  children  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  bring  them 
to  repentance.  I  still  pray  that  he  may  do  so.  No  man  would  hold 
out  the  hand  of  fellowship  more  quickly  than  I  would  to  welcome  them 
into  the  fold  of  truth.  But  I  cannot  countenance  their  actions  in  oppo- 
sition to  this  great  work  which  the  Lord  established  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  While  I  regret  the  fact  that  they  stand  aloof 
and  in  opposition  to  the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  which  that  Prophet 
restored,  yet  I  pray  and  hope  that  the  time  will  speedily  come  when 
some  of  them,  at  least,  will  see  the  error  of  their  ways,  and  come  humbly 
seeking  the  favor  of  God,  and  membership  in  the  Church.  They  who 
will  not  repent,  but  who  persist  in  the  opposition  to  the  truth,  may  they 
be  confounded ;  may  that  which  they  propose  come  to  nought ;  may  all 
their  works  fail  and  may  they  soon  stand  exposed  in  the  full  error 
of  their  ways  before  the  world. 

May  the  Lord  bless  the  family  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
bring  them  to  repentance.  May  he  bless  the  descendants  of  Hyrum 
Smith  that  they  also  may  walk  in  the  light  of  the  everlasting  Gospel. 
May  they  never  falter  nor  turn  from  the  path  in  which  their  father 
walked,  and  may  they  honor  and  uphold  his  good  name.  And  so  I 
pray  for  all  who  receive  the  Gospel,  for  we  are  all  brothers  and  sisters. 
May  'the  Lord  guide  and  bless  all  who  love  the  truth.  May  we  who 
have  received  the  Gospel  always  stand  steadfast,  turning  neither  to 
the  right  nor  to  the  left  in  the  serving  of  the  Lord,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

The  dominant  feeling  in  my  heart,  my  soul,  is  and  has  been, 
throughout  this  conference,  so  far  as  it  has  advanced,  and  will  be,  I 
trust,  to  the  end  and  thence  onward,  one  of  surpassing  gratitude,  thanks- 
giving and  praise,  combined  with  a  deep  consciousness  of  humility.  I 
think  I  have  never  felt  more  truly  humble  in  my  life  than  during  the 
proceedings  of  this  great  conference.  I  prize  my  membership  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  beyond  all  else  on  earth. 
It  is  sufficient  to  me  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church,  and  in  that  great 
estate,  I  feel  reverently  humble.  With  you  I  have  felt  the  power  of  the 
Spirit  of  God  in  these  gatherings.  This  centenary  is  being  celebrated 
by  other  than  those  whom  we  see  with  our  physical  eyes.  There  are 
more  here  than  you  see — messengers,  reporters,  spirits  of  high  degree, 
who  have  been  sent  to  take  part  with  us  in  the  commemoration  of  this 
wonderful  century  now  brought  to  a  close. 

"MORMONISM"  A  NEW  .  LIGHT 

The  world  may  well  ask  what  has  this  system  called  "Mormonism" 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


95 


given  to  mankind  more  than  the  world  had  before?  At  this  major 
milepost  in  the  course  of  the  history  of  the  Church  it  is  natural  that 
we  indulge  in  retrospect,  and  I  think  a  hundred  years  is  a  span  of 
sufficient  length  to  give  us  a  fair  perspective  of  that  which  lies  behind 
us.  IWe  are  able  to  see  and  interpret  now,  more  clearly  than  was 
possible  while  the  events  were  in  progress,  those  great  developments 
that  followed  each  other  in  orderly  succession,  many  of  them  fraught 
with  suffering  and  witnessed  by  blood  and  tears. 

The  world  calls  this  religion  "Mormonism;"  so  let  it  be;  we  shall 
use  the  term,  it's  convenient.  We  are  always  on  our  guard  against  the 
possible  misapprehension  attending  its  use,  but  we  may  use  it  safely. 
"Mormonism"  has  taught  those  who  would  be  taught,  those  who  would 
hear,  all  in  the  world  who  would  listen,  new  conceptions  concerning 
God.  Is  that  not  a  gift  worth  prizing?  I  feel  that  through  its  influences 
I  have  come  to  know  God  better  than  would  have  been  possible  otherwise, 
even  though  I  had  the  learning  of  the  sages,  the  power  of  the  orator 
and  the  voice  of  an  angel.  The  revelation  of  this  century  past  has 
thrown  its  light,  like  that  of  a  great  torch,  into  many  of  the  dark 
passages  of  olden  construction.  "Mormonism,"  as  I  view  it,  is  at  once 
a  system  of  the  strictest  fundamentalism  coupled  with  all  that  is  rational 
and  good  in  the  broadest  modernism  of  the  day.  It  has  confirmed  the 
declarations  of  ancient  writ  that  the  God  we  worship  is  a  God  of  justice, 
but  it  has  defined  unto  us  in  a  way  that  man  had  never  learned  to 
know  before,  what  kind  of  justice  is  God's  justice.  It  has  banished  the 
stern  tyrant  upon  his  throne,  sending  one  to  heaven  and  ten  to  hell, 
all  for  his  glory,  and  has  shown  that  God's  justice  is  just  as  truly  the 
embodiment  of  mercy  as  it  is  the  demand  for  right  and  righteousness. 

CONDEMNATION,  SALVATION,  EXALTATION 

It  has  taught  me  that  the  God  I  worship  is  the  personification  of 
love,  but  not  that  maudlin  love  that  oftimes  blinds  our  eyes  to  facts  and 
leads  us  to  inconsistent  actions.  Not  one  whit  of  the  ancient  gospel 
has  been  abated,  but  new  meaning  has  been  shown  through  the  words 
of  his  prophets  in  these  latter  times,  down  to  this  very  day.  The 
ancient  edict  stands,  as  voiced  by  the  Lord  Christ  to  the  eleven  im- 
mediately before  the  departure  of  the  Savior :  "He  that  believeth  and 
is  baptized  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned." 
That  last  word  is  an  awful  one.  If  we  do  not  understand  its  true 
import,  it  is  terrifying,  and  that  very  affirmation,  declaration,  law, 
has  been  restated  in  this  day  and  age;  but  thanks  be  to  the  Lord  of 
Hosts,  he  has  given  us  to  understand  what  he  means  by  damnation.  It 
is  no  less  real  than  it  ever  was,  but  men  have  not  always  understood  it 
aright.  What  is  it  to  be  damned?  Does  it  mean  that  all  who  come 
under  that  sentence  shall  be  cast  into  hell,  there  to  dwell  forever  and 
forever?  The  light  of  the  century,  given  by  the  Lord,  declares  the 
falsity  of  that  construction. 

GRADATIONS  IN  THE  HEREAFTER 

Salvation  is  graded  ever  upward  until  it  culminates  in  the  glorious 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

condition  of  exaltation.  Though  the  term  salvation  is  used  in  scripture 
in  a  general  way,  and  we  must  learn  to  discriminate  between  salvation 
and  exaltation  as  we  read,  so  damnation  is  graded ;  else  what  did  the 
Lord  mean  as  recorded  in  the  twelfth  chapter  of  Mark,  when  he  spoke 
of  the  leaders  of  the  people  who  were  untrue  to  their  trust,  when  he 
spoke  of  those  who  used  their  power  and  position  to  oppress  and  to 
work  evil ;  when  he  said  of  such :  "These  shall  receive  greater  dam- 
nation ?"  Well,  if  there  be  a  greater  damnation  there  are  lesser  degrees 
of  damnation  and  the  term  is  used  in  the  sense  of  deprivation  and 
forfeiture.  That  man  enters  into  a  degree  of  damnation  who  has  for- 
feited his  opportunities  and  therefore  has  rendered  himself  incapable 
of  the  advancement  that  would  otherwise  be  possible. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  of  places  prepared  for  those  entitled  to  sal- 
vation. He  has  told  us  that  those  who  will  keep  all  the  laws  and  com- 
mandments of  God  can  come  where  he  is  and  shall  be  heirs  of  celestial 
glory  and  power.  And  he  has  told  us  of  lesser  degrees  unto  which 
others  who  have  failed  to  rise  to  the  occasion  of  laying  hold  on  the 
blessing  of  eternal  life,  in  its  fulness,  shall  come ;  and  concerning  the 
last  of  these  kingdoms  of  glories,  known  to  us  as  the  Telestial,  the 
Lord  has  said  that  it  excels  all  that  the  human  mind  can  conceive  in 
glory,  and  yet  the  one  in  the  Telestial  Kingdom  is  condemned  so  far 
as  his  actions  have  rendered  him  incapable  of  attaining  to  the  higher 
glories  and  blessings  which  mean  power  and  advancement. 

LAW,  NOT  CAPRICE,  IN  DIVINE  ADMINISTRATION 

"Mormonism"  has  taught  me  that  God  holds  himself  accountable  to 
law  even  as  he  expects  us  to  do.  He  has  set  us  the  example  in  obedience 
to  law.  I  know  that  to  say  this  would  have  been  heresy  a  few  decades 
ago.  But  we  have  the  divine  word  for  it:  "I,  the  Lord,  am  bound 
when  ye  do  what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what  I  say,  ye  have  no 
promise."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  82:10.)  He  operates  by  law  and  not  by 
arbitrariness  or  caprice.  He  is  no  tyrant  to  be  propitiated  and  placated 
by  honeyed  words.  He  cannot  be  moved  by  wordy  oratory.  He  is 
not  a  judge  sitting  to  be  influenced  by  the  specious  pleas  of  crafty 
advocates ;  and  yet  there  is  an  eloquence  that  moves  him ;  there  is  a 
plea  that  influences  him.  The  eloquence  of  prayer  from  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit  prevails  with  him. 

"Mormonism"  has  eliminated  the  thought  of  irregularity,  caprice 
or  favor  from  the  doings  and  dealings  of  God  with  his  children.  He  will 
take  all  circumstances  into  account  and  will  give  unto  every  man  that 
which  is  his.  Well,  one  may  say,  if  that  be  the  orderly  procedure, 
natural  and  inevitable,  what  need  of  a  judge  to  pronounce  sentence? 
What  need  of  a  God?  Great  need  indeed,  for  he  has  provided  these 
conditions,  these  places,  these  certainties.  He  has  made  possible  salva- 
tion and  exaltation.  The  more  we  learn  of  God  and  his  attributes,  the 
wiser  are  we,  not  only  for  time  but  for  eternity.  God  has  revealed 
himself  in  this  day  with  a  literalness  that  puts  beyond  all  question  the 
fact  of  his  goodness  and  Godliness.  He  has  gone  so  far  as  to  make 
plain  unto  us  that  he  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  and  that  while  he  has 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


97 


a  covenant  people  upon  the  earth,  others  shall  come  from  the  east  and 
from  the  west  and  from  the  north  and  from  the  south  and  shall  enter 
into  the  kingdom  of  God  if  they  will  only  do  what  he  requires  of  them 
as  conditions  necessary  for  that  enfranchisement.  The  conditions  of 
citizenship  in  the  kingdom  of  God  are  fair  and  just  and  open  unto  all 
men :  "We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind 
may  be  saved  by  obedience  to  the.  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel." 
And  except  for  those  few,  to  whom  reference  has  been  made  this  morn- 
ing, who  have  betrayed  their  trust  and  who  have  forfeited  the  very 
ability  to  repent — and  they  are  few — every  soul  that  has  ever  been 
tabernacled  in  flesh  upon  the  earth  shall  be  redeemed  and  shall  be 
saved  in  his  degree  of  worthiness  and  desert. 

HELL  HATH  BOTH  ENTRANCE  AND  EXIT 

During  this  hundred  years  many  other  great  truths  not  known 
before,  have  been  declared  to  the  people,  and  one  of  the  greatest  is  that 
to  hell  there  is  an  exit  as  well  as  an  entrance.  Hell  is  no  place  to  which 
a  vindictive  judge  sends  prisoners  to  suffer  and  to  be  punished  princi- 
pally for  his  glory;  but  it  is  a  place  prepared  for  the  teaching,  the 
disciplining  of  those  who  failed  to  learn  here  upon  the  earth  what  they 
should  have  learned.  True,  we  read  of  everlasting  punishment,  un- 
ending suffering,  eternal  damnation.  That  is  a  direful  expression;  but 
in  his  mercy  the  Lord  has  made  plain  what  those  words  mean.  "Eternal 
punishment,"  he  says,  is  God's  punishment,  for  he  is  eternal;  and  that 
condition  or  state  or  possibility  will  ever  exist  for  the  sinner  who  de- 
serves and  really  needs  such  condemnation ;  but  this  does  not  mean  that 
the  individual  sufferer  or  sinner  is  to  be  eternally  and  everlastingly  made 
to  endure  and  suffer.  No  man  will  be  kept  in  hell  longer  than  is 
necessary  to  bring  him  to  a  fitness  for  something  better.  When  he 
reaches  that  stage  the  prison  doors  will  open  and  there  will  be  rejoicing 
among  the  hosts  who  welcome  him  into  a  better  state.  The  Lord  has 
not  abated  in  the  least  what  he  has  said  in  earlier  dispensations  con- 
cerning the  operation  of  his  law  and  his  gospel,  but  he  has  made  clear 
unto  us  his  goodness  and  mercy- through  it  all,  for  it  is  his  glory  and 
his  work  to  bring  about  the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man. 

THE  LORD  IS  PLEASED  WITH  HIS  CHURCH 

With  such  profound  truths  made  plain  to  us  in  the  course  of  these 
hundred  years  what  may  we  not  hope  for  confidently,  trustfully,  in 
the  future?  With  all  my  heart  I  praise  the  God  of  hosts  who  has 
brought  this  Church  to  its  present  state.  He  is  well  pleased  with  it, 
speaking  of  the  Church  collectively,  but  not  individually,  for  there  are 
too  many  of  us  who  are  not  living  up  to  the  fulness  of  his  requirements ; 
but  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  his  Church.  He  has  endowed  it  with 
blessings  beyond  our  power  to  compute  or  describe  and  there  are  yet 
greater  blessings  awaiting  us,  which  shall  be  given  to  lead  us  onward 
and  upward  if  we  will,  and  with  us  all  men  who  will  become  of  us,  all 
the  honest  in  heart  everywhere,  unto  a  fulness  of  joy  and  glory; 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  that  means  no  mere  adulation,  or  demonstration  of  external  splendor, 
but  power  and  influence  for  good  throughout  eternity. 

May  we  individually  be  acceptable  unto  the  Lord  even  as  his 
Church  is  acceptable,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  -of  Jesus,  the  Master, 
our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

A  soprano  solo,  "I  saw  another  angel  fly"  (Rev.  14:6-7),  was  sung 
by  Evelyn  Gray,  with  trumpet  obligato  by  Stanford  Howells.  Music 
composed  by  George  H.  Durham. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission 

I  sincerely  pray,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  during  the  brief 
time  I  occupy  in  this  conference  meeting  I  may  be  under  the  direction 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  for  that  Spirit  can  take  of  the  things  of  God 
and  make  them  clear  to  the  understanding  of  us,  his  children. 

I  praise  the  Lord  for  the  precious  things  that  have  been  presented 
for  our  consideration  in  this  great  centennial  conference  that  is  being 
held.  We  should  all  praise  God  for  the  splendid  truths  that  have  been 
brought  to  our  attention.  We  must  all  know  and  feel  that  our  Father 
in  heaven  is  mindful  of  his  work,  his  people,  and  his  servants  who 
direct  his  work.  We  can  feel  sure  that  his  work  and  his  will,  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  are  being  brought  to  the  attention  of  those 
who  have  entered  into  covenant  with  God  and  have  received,  in  this 
great  dispensation,  the  glorious  Gospel  given  for  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  God. 

I  have  come  in  contact,  during  the  past  few  days,  with  a  goodly 
number  of  missionaries,  particularly  missionaries  who  are  laboring  with 
me  in  the  California  Mission,  and  have  heard  from  them  many  expres- 
sions of  gratitude  for  the  blessings  that  have  come  to  them  as  repre- 
sentatives of  the  work  of  God,  in  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  'they 
have  been  commissioned  to  teach.  Ofttimes  I  have  heard  declarations 
from  them  indicating  that  they  have  received  in  a  fulness  the  fulfilment 
of  the  promises  that  were  conferred  upon  them  when  they  were  set 
apart  and  sent  out  to  be  ambassadors  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  the 
preaching  of  his  restored  Gospel.  Those  promises  have  been  mar- 
velously  fulfilled.  I  feel  that  I  too  can  testify,  as  my  companions 
frequently  testify,  that  the  promises  made  to  me  have  had  complete 
fulfilment. 

A  few  years  ago  I  was  sent  to  labor  in  the  California  Mission. 
President  Heber  J.  Grant  pronounced  blessings  upon  my  head  that 
seemed  to  me  to  be  too  great  for  realization.  I  had  labored  for  many 
years  in  other  missions,  particularly  in  the  European  missions,  and 
entertained  the  thought  that  is  common  to  missionaries  that  the  field 
where  I  had  labored  was  the  greatest  field  in  the  world.  The  European 
Mission,  to  me  in  those  days  of  my  young  manhood,  was  the  mission 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


99 


of  missions,  and  when  there  were  promises  made  to  me  on  the  eve  of  my 
going  to  California — which  at  that  time  seemed  to  me  a  very  insig- 
nificant mission  when  compared  with  the  great  fields  where  I  had 
formerly  operated — I  could  not  believe  that  there  could  possibly  come 
blessings  that  would  surpass  my  former  experiences.  I  feel  "to  humbly 
acknowledge  and  testify  before  this  great  congregation  that  the  promises, 
wonderful  as  they  were,  have  been  fulfilled,  yea,  more  than  fulfilled. 

It  has  been  my  pleasure  in  the  California  Mission  to  be  in  the 
companionship  of  a  splendid  company  of  missionaries,  young  men  and 
young  women,  who  have  been  anxious  to  meet  the  responsibilities 
resting  upon  them  as  representatives  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  They  have  manifested  the  very  greatest  consider- 
ation and  deference  for  me ;  they  have  gladly  hearkened  to  my  counsel ; 
they  have  fully  and  joyfully  held  up  my  hands,  and  by  their  attitude 
have  made  me  feel  that  I  could  depend  upon  their  help,  and  that  I  had 
their  faith  and  prayers  and  confidence.  There  are  in  the  mission  a  very 
large  number  of  local  people  who  are  not  converts  that  have  been  made 
in  the  mission,  but  people  who  have  been  in  the  Church  from  their  birth. 
We  have  ten  thousand  five  hundred  members  enrolled  in  the  California 
Mission.  The  majority  are  men  and  women  who  have  been  born  and 
reared  in  the  Church.  They  have  been  anxious  to  have  the  same 
advantages  in  the  way  of  buildings  in  which  to  serve  the  Lord,  that  they 
were  accustomed  to  in  other  sections  of  the  land  where  they  resided 
before  they  took  up  residence  in  California.  Because  of  this,  there  has 
been  a  great  desire  manifest  to  erect  houses  of  worship  throughout  the 
California  Mission.  It  has  been  my  pleasure  to  see  comfortable  chapels 
dot  the  land  from  Elko,  Nevada,  across  over  the  Sierra  Nevada  Moun- 
tains into  the  Sacramento  valley  in  California ;  then  down  through  the 
Sacramento  valley,  and  the  San  Joaquin  valley,  to  the  southern  part  of 
the  state,  at  San  Diego ;  and  then  beyond  the  California  line  down 
through  Arizo.na.  Until  six  hundred  and  fifty  thousand  dollars  worth 
of  chapels  have  been  erected  in  the  California  Mission,  in  which  the 
people  now  worship  the  Lord  our  God.  That  surely  is  a  blessing  that 
is  far  beyond  anything  that  was  pronounced  upon  my  head. 

Then  I  have  seen  five  or  six  thousand  people,  young  and  old, 
yield  obedience  to  the  doctrines  of  the  Gospel.  They  have  gone  down 
into  the  waters  of  baptism  and  have  entered  into  covenant  with  the 
Lord  to  serve  him  and  keep  his  commandments.  We  read  in  the  revela- 
tions of  God  that  if  a  man  gives  his  lifetime  to  the  preaching  of  the 
Gospel  and  saves  but  one  soul  how  great  will  his  joy  be  with  that 
soul  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  I  feel  again  the  blessings  that  have  been 
realized  have  been  greater  than  the  promises  that  were  made,  and  have 
found  in  the  California  Mission  every  opportunity  for  the  service  of 
God  and  every  reward  that  I  ever  found  in  the  European  Mission  or 
elsewhere.  I  have  had,  according  to  the  promise  sealed  upon  my  head, 
a  marvelous  and  wonderful  experience,  and  feel  in  my  soul  that  I  know 
that  I  have  been  richly  and  wonderfully  blessed  in  laboring  in  the  service 
of  God  for  the  spreading  of  those  doctrines  that  constitute  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    That  Gospel  is  today,  as  it  was  anciently, 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  All  this  and  more  has  come  to  me  in 
the  California  Mission. 

After  one  hundred  years  of  teaching  the  truth  brought  back  to 
earth  through  the  ministry  of  the  great  prophet  of  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times,  we  should  all  be  coming  to  a  realization  of  the 
wonderful  nature  of  the  work  made  manifest  to  men  in  the  age  in  which 
we  now  live.  It  is  strange  to  those  who  have  received  the  truth,  that 
all  good  men  cannot  see  the  beauty  and  necessity  of  the  marvelous  work 
that  has  come  to  mankind  through  the  prophet  of  God,  Joseph  Smith. 

I  shall  read  a  few  words.  I  do  not  know  the  author,  but  they  are 
words  that  have  been  sent  out  in  the  interest  of  the  Mutual  Improvement 
work  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  they  fit  in, 
I  feel,  remarkably  well  with  the  service  missionaries  render  in  the 
preaching  of  the  Gospel  as  it  is  now  being  proclaimed. 

"In  the  first  century,  due  to  the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ  and  his  apostles, 
there  was  a  perfect  understanding  that  God  the  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  were  separate,  distinct,  personages.  The  Savior 
was  in  the  express  image  of  his  Father,  possessing  a  tangible  body  of  flesh  and 
bones.  Jesus  taught  that  his  father  was  greater  than  he  and  he  was  subject  to 
the  Father.  Paul,  in  his  epistles  to  the  saints,  almost  invariably  bore  witness  to 
the  distinct  and  separate  personalities  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  In  the  year 
1830  these  truths  had  been  lost  and  the  knowledge  of  God  had  become  a  great 
mystery;  the  personages  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  and  the  Holy  Ghost  in  the 
minds  of  the  people  were  confused  and  they  declared  God  to  be  without  bodily 
form  and  passions. 

"Through  the  great  prophet,  who  was  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God 
in  reestablishing  the  work  of  God  and  receiving  the  visits  of  the  angel  who  was 
sent  flying  through  the  midst  of  heaven  having  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  preach 
to  those  who  dwell  upon  the  earth,  the  truth  as  it  was  comprehended  and  taught 
by  the  inspired  apostles  of  old,  was  again  made  known. 

"The  ancient  prophets,  as  well  as  the  Apostles  of  old,  declared  that  revelation 
was  to  be  had  by  the  people  of  God  in  all  ages.  Many  of  the  prophets  had 
predicted  wonderful  revelations  and  renewal  of  covenants  between  the  Lord  and 
his  people  in  the  latter  days.  In  the  year  1830  all  this  was  'denied,  and  the 
world  taught  that  the  canon  of  scriptures  was  full  and  closed  forever. 

"The  prophets  of  old  predicted  the  coming  of  messengers  from  the  presence 
of  the  Lord  in  the  latter  days,  to  visit  men  and  to  bestow  upon  them  keys  of 
authority  and  to  instruct  them  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord.  In  the  year  1830  it  was 
generally  believed  that  the.  time  of  the  appearing  of  angels  from  the  presence 
of  the  Lord  was  past,  and  no  longer  needed. 

"The  Lord  established  a  Church  and  in  the  days  of  the  Apostles  it  was 
officered  by  Apostles,  Prophets,  Evangelists,  Elders,  Bishops,  Priests,  etc.  Paul 
declared  that  these  officers  were  necessary  to  the  Church  for  its  perfection. 
In  the  year  1830  all  this  had  been  changed  and  there  were  no  Apostles,  and  no 
Prophets — no  one  to  speak  by  divine  authority. 

"Through  the  ministry  of  the  great  prophet  of  the  latter  times,  we  have 
been  made  acquainted  with  the  glorious  truth  that  our  Father  in  heaven  is 
the  same  yesterday,  today  and  forever,  that  he  changes  not,  and  that  his 
revelation,  his  direction,  is  had  today  among  the  children  of  men  as  it  was 
had  anciently. 

"In  the  scriptures  man  is  called  upon  to  repent,  and  serve  the  Lord  by  keeping 
his  commandments.  In  many  churches  in  1830  it  was  taught  that  through  his 
atonement  Jesus  Orist  had  done  all  for  man  and  man  could  do  nothing  for 
himself  towards  his  salvation.  All  that  was  required  was  that  an  individual 
confess  Jesus  Christ  and  he  would  be  saved." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


101 


We  have  learned  in  the  age  in  which  we  live,  by  the  revelations 
that  have  been  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  we  cannot 
take  the  commission  that  was  given  two  thousand  years  ago  to  the 
disciples  who  were  sent  out  to  preach  the  Gospel,  and  claim  that  we 
have  authority  because  of  that  commission,  to  teach  the  precious  things 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  We  preach  today  not  because  Jesus  the 
Christ  authorized  men  anciently  to  preach,  but  because  of  revelation  and 
commandment  directly  to  us.  He  made  the  declaration :  "Ye  have  not 
chosen  me,  but  I  have  chosen  you  and  ordained  you,  that  ye  should 
go  and  bring  forth  fruit ;"  and  he  commanded  his  disciples  to  go  unto 
all  nations,  "Baptizing  them  in  the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever 
I  have  commanded  you ;  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  always,  even  unto  the 
end  of  the  world.1" 

If  you  will  read  the  sixty-eighth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  you  will  find  that  men  operate  today  because  the  Lord 
God  himself  declared  that  his  servants  who  had  been  clothed  with 
authority  in  our  own  time  were  to  go  into  all  the  world  preaching  the 
Gospel  to  every  creature,  making  the  promise  anew  that  those  who 
would  believe  them  and  be  baptized  would  be  saved,  and  those  who 
would  not  believe  should  be  damned.  The  authority  has  been  con- 
ferred upon  men  in  the  age  in  which  we  live.  I  praise  the  name  of  my 
Maker,  that  in  his  loving  kindness  and  providence,  I  myself,  have  been 
clothed  with  that  precious  authority,  the  authority  of  priesthood,  the 
right  to  advocate  the  glorious  doctrines  that  will  bring  men  and  women 
back  into  the  presence  of  God,  the  right  to  administer  those  sacred  and 
holy  ordinances  that  have  always  been  essential  to  salvation ;  they  were 
essential  in  the  meridian  of  time;  essential  in  the  days  of  our  father 
Adam  and  through  all  dispensations.  There  has  never  been  any  other 
means  by  which  men  and  women  might  be  made  citizens  of  the  kingdom 
of  God,  and  never  will  be  worlds  without  end.  That  authority  has 
been  conferred  upon  mortal  men  in  this  age  in  which  we  live.  I 
would  that  I  could  burn  that  thought  into  the  minds  of  men  and  women 
who  have  not  given  investigation  to  this  glorious  Gospel  that  by  the 
providence  of  God  has  been  brought  back  to  mankind  again ;  for  in 
our  own  time  authority  has  again  been  given  to  men  and  the  command- 
ment given  by  divine  revelation  in  this  dispensation  that  we  shall  go 
into  all  the  world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature.  We  invite 
men  and  women  who  are  not  of  our  faith  to  give  attention  to  this 
proclamation,  this  representation  that  the  God  of  heaven  has  revealed 
anew  the  good  old  Gospel,  the  only  Gospel  that  has  the  power  of 
salvation ;  and  he  has  made  the  declaration  that  all  people  may  know, 
if  they  will,  by  obedience,  that  his  word  and  his  truth  have  again  been 
revealed,  by  which  lost  authority  could  be  brought  back  to  men.  There 
was  no  other  way,  as  some  have  been  able  to  discern  who  have  not 
been  members  of  the  Church. 

I  will  read  a  word  or  two  from  a  booklet  that  I  picked  up  long 
ago  in  an  old  cathedral  in  the  old  world.    The  pamphlet  is  entitled 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Questions  and  Answers,"  and  I  read  under  the  heading,  "Why  I  am 
a  Roman  Catholic" : 

"And  again,  when  Luther,  Calvin,  Henry  VIII,  and  their  followers  were 
starting  in  their  mad  career,  either  the  true  religion  was  then  in  the  world, 
or  it  was  not.  If  it  was,  they  committed  grievous  crimes  in  making  new 
religions  to  oppose  it.  If  it  was  not,  they  were  powerless  to  create  it.  It  takes 
a  Christ,  not  a  Luther,  to  create  a  Christianity.  On  either  supposition,  therefore, 
Protestantism  is  not  the  true  religion  of  Jesus  Christ." 

I  wish  men  could  comprehend  the  truth  of  that  declaration.  "It 
takes  a  Christ,  not  a  Luther  to  create  Christianity." 

So  says  a  Roman  Catholic.  He  seemed  to  recognize  the  truth — 
for  it  is  the  truth — that  if  the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God  had  disappeared 
from  the  earth,  men  could  not  bring  it  back.  It  could  only  be  brought 
back  by  that  Being  who  is  the  author  of  salvation,  and  in  whom  all 
power  and  authority  center.  The  Catholic  priest  spoke  better  than 
he  knew.  We  testify  that  the  Lord  God  Almighty  sent,  as  we  have 
heard,  at  the  opening  of  this  dispensation,  over  a  hundred  years  ago, 
his  Son,  our  Redeemer,  and  holy  angels ;  and  those  angels  conferred 
upon  men  once  more  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ ;  and  by 
that  authority  men  now  minister  in  the  nations  of  the  world.  If  men 
are  pricked  in  their  hearts  and  cry  out,  "Men  and  brethren,  what  shall 
we  do?"  we  make  answer,  "Repent,  and  be  baptized,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost."  That  is  the  religion  of  Jesus  Christ,  also  the 
religion  called  Mormonism ;  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 
God  help  us  to  understand  it,  to  believe  it,  to  receive  it  and  live  it, 
I  humblv  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  thank  God,  my  Heavenly  Father,  for  this  glorious  occasion.  My 
heart  has  been  touched  by  the  inspiration  of  the  great  messages  which 
have  come  to  us  and  by  the  contemplation  of  the  century  of  achievement 
through  which  the  Church  has  passed. 

I  humbly  invoke  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  the  words  which  I 
shall  utter,  that  they  may  be  in  some  measure  worthy. 

ONE  HUNDRED  YEARS  AGO 

The  scene  was  set  one  hundred  years  ago.  America  was  newer 
then  than  now.  The  Alleghanies  were  in  the  west.  Illinois  and  Missouri 
were  the  extreme  frontier.  Roads  were  trails  and  communication  was 
difficult.  Life  in  the  villages  and  even  in  the  cities  was  highly  provin- 
cial, as  it  ever  must  be  without  adequate  transportation  facilities.  Ag- 
riculture was  the  chief  occupation  of  the  people.  The  machine  age  and 
industrial  era  had  not  yet  come.  The  nation  was  in  the  making,  very 
young — still  an  experiment.  A  union  had  been  formed  but  not  under- 
stood by  all  the  contracting  parties.    It  had  not  then  been  subjected  to 


ELDER   STEPHEN   L.   RICHARDS  103 


the  terrible  test  of  blood  and  battle  through  which  its  real  birth  came. 
Pioneering — the  subjugation  of  the  soil — was  the  vocation  of  the  people. 
Religion  and  politics  were  their  avocations.  Education  was  very  lim- 
ited. Lands  must  be  reclaimed  before  schools  and  colleges  can  be 
built.  But  there  were  churches  and  creeds,  and  high  partizanship  and  in- 
tense prejudices.  Amusements  were  not  so  common  as  now.  People 
were  serious — very  serious — and  religion  occupied  much  of  their  time 
and  more  of  their  thought. 

THE  ORGANIZATION  OF  THE  CHURCH  PROJECTED 

Onto  such  a  scene  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  dramatically  projected.  It  was  not  viewed 
with  indifference  as  it  might  have  been  in  the  day  of  tolerance  in  which 
we  live.  The  circumstances  leading  to  it — the  heavenly  vision  of  the 
young  prophet,  the  miraculous  discovery  and  translation  of  the  gold 
plates,  the  bestowal  of  divine  authority — were  a  challenge  to  the  profes- 
sors of  religion  which  they  could  not  and  were  not  disposed  to  ignore. 
The  circumstances  undermined  the  fundamentals  of  their  creeds.  The 
vision  revised  the  prevalent  conception  of  the  personality  of  God  and 
the  doctrine  that  revelation  had  closed ;  the  Book  of  Mormon  upset 
existing  archaeological  theories  and  gave  a  new  interpretation  of  the 
Gospel;  and  if  divine  authority  had  been  conferred  by  heavenly  mes- 
sengers, why  then  men  theretofore  had  not  held  it. 

INTOLERANCE  AND  BITTERNESS  ENCOUNTERED 

These  things  the  religionists  sensed,  even  if  they  did  not  express 
them.  So  they  were  not  tolerant,  they  were  not  indifferent.  They  were 
aroused,  they  were  resentful  and  with  bitterness  and  persecution  thev 
made  the  way  of  the  young  prophet  and  the  new  church  hard  indeed.  We 
believe  that  the  spirit  of  opposition  was  engendered  by  the  adversary  of 
light  and  truth.  Even  so  it  was  surely  intensified  by  a  consciousness, 
though  only  partially  understood,  of  the  far-reaching  effect  of  the  new 
establishment  on  the  creeds  and  institutions  of  the  time. 

A  NEW  KINGDOM 

And  the  fears  and  apprehensions  were  well  founded,  although  the 
bitterness  and  persecution  were  not.  In  no  land  other  than  America 
could  the  young  Church  have  taken  root  sufficiently  to  stand.  Even  in 
the  liberty  of  our  country  its  early  years  were  in  great  hazard.  A  new 
dispensation  of  the  Gospel  was  ushered  in,  new  interpretations  were 
given  irreconcilable  with  those  being  taught,  and  a  new  kingdom  was 
set  up,  a  kingdom  that  was  spiritual  in  nature  but  one  which  so  per- 
meated every  fiber  and  tissue  of  living  that  it  came  to  be  construed  by 
many  as  of  temporal  jurisdiction.  So  vital  was  this  new  kingdom  to  its 
adherents  and  so  completely  did  it  command  their  affection,  their  ener- 
gies and  devotion,  that  those  who  came  in  contact  with  it  and  were 
not  of  it  became  violently  jealous  of  its  influence  and  its  power.  They 
saw  the  masterful  leadership  of  its  authorities ;  they  saw  a  man  loved  and 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


revered  as  if  he  were  indeed  a  prophet,  they  saw  a  unity  and  cohesion 
among  the  members  incomparable  to  any  they  had  known ;  and  they 
saw  progress  and  achievement  that  strangely  galled  like  wormwood 
their  envious  hearts. 

THAT  WHICH  PROMPTED  OPPOSITION 

I  have  tried  diligently  and  sincerely  to  discover  the  factors  which 
prompted  the  bitter  and  violent  opposition  to  the  Church  in  its  early 
rise,  and  I  reach  the  conclusion  from  the  recorded  facts  which  I  know 
that  it  is  ascribable  chiefly  to  simple,  unadulterated  jealousy  of  its  superb 
cooperation,  unity,  and  control,  and  a  fear  that  such  worthy  qualities 
would  make  it  unassailable  and  triumphant.  I  am  sure  that  this  has 
been  so  in  politics  and  business.  I  believe  it  has  been  true  in  the  eccle- 
siastical field.  No  other  reason  could  well  exist.  The  leaders  taught 
only  good  principles  and  the  acknowledged  virtues.  The  Priesthood 
ruled  by  kindness  and  persuasion  and  not  by  force.  The  cooperative  ob- 
jectives of  the  people  were  worthy.  They  were  loyal  citizens  of  the 
governments  under  which  they  lived,  and  their  lives  were  unusually 
pure  and  upright.  I  grant  that  the  doctrine  of  plural  marriage  contra- 
vened established  custom,  but  the  enmity  came  before  the  announce- 
ment of  that  doctrine  and  has  long  since  survived  the  abandonment  of 
its  practice.  I  cannot  find  any  instance  where  the  Church,  acting  under 
official  guidance,  has  ever  brought  to  any  person,  community,  state 
or  nation  anything  but  moral  and  civic  righteousness,  high  idealism, 
and  worthy  accomplishment. 

When  I  speak  of  those  who  have  violently  opposed  the  establish- 
ment and  work  of  the  Church  I  mean  to  limit  the  number  to  those  who 
have  had  contact  with  it  and  opportunity  to  observe  its  people  and  its 
ways.  I  do  not  include  many  thousands  who  have  traduced  us  because 
they  have  never  known  us  and  have  unconsciously  been  the  victims  of 
false  and  malignant  reports. 

GROWTH  IN  SPITE  OF  OPPOSITION 

In  spite  of  opposition  the  Church  grew.  Every  year  brought  an  in- 
crease; no  year  a  decrease.  It  met  successfully  every  difficulty.  Ene- 
mies within  and  without  could  not  stay  it.  It  survived,  not  without  un- 
speakable sorrow  but  without  retardation,  its  severest  calamity — the 
martyrdom  of  its  president,  prophet  and  revelator.  It  endured  mob- 
bings,  drivings,  devastations,  privations  and  inexpressible  cruelties 
but  it  never  faltered.  It  went  on  and  on  in  its  destined  course  until  it  is 
what  you  acclaim  it  today,  your  pride  and  mine,  a  benefactor  to  man- 
kind, and  I  think  I  may  say  with  assurance  a  marvel  in  the  eyes  of 
thoughtful  observers. 

THE  CAUSE  QF  ITS  GROWTH 

Why  has  it  grown?  Because  it  has  ever  had  within  it  the  seeds 
and  essence  of  life.  It  is  vital  to  its  members  and  to  the  world.  It  so 
intimately  touches  every  phase  of  living  that  it  means  everything  or 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  105 


nothing.  It  is  authoritative.  The  authority  is  real,  not  symbolic,  to  those 
who  accept  it.  Its  ordinances  are  efficacious  and  its  faith  is  a  living, 
moving  faith  founded  on  individual  conviction  and  testimony,  the  wit- 
ness of  the  Divine  Spirit  to  the  spirit  of  man. 

Individual  testimony  brings  a  sense  of  personal  responsibility.  Every 
man  who  has  received  has  felt  a  duty  to  give,,  and  that  sense  has 
prompted  him  to, respond  to  the  direction  of  the  priesthood.  (We  have 
been  criticized  because  of  our  proclivities  for  proselyting.  We  would 
be  untrue  to  the  genius  of  our  faith  if  we  failed  to  share  the  gifts  of 
the  Gospel  with  others.  So  long  as  we  conceive  ourselves  to  be  cus- 
todians of  the  truth  we  must  disseminate  it.  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute 
to  those  who  have  carried  the  message. 

THE  OUTSTANDING  ACCOMPLISHMENT 

Comparisons  are  odious.  They  are  often  erroneous  and  lead  to 
difficulty,  but  if  I  were  asked  to  name  the  outstanding,  distinctive  or- 
ganized accomplishment  of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  the  last  century  1 
would,  without  much  hesitation,  set  forth  its  phenomenal  missionary 
labors  and  system.  Nothing  more  truly  characterizes  the  altruism 
of  the  Gospel  that  it  teaches.  Nothing  more  deeply  signifies  the  devo- 
tion and.  sincerity  of  its  members. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  know  the  number  of  missionaries  who 
have  been  sent  forth  and  the  money  value  of  their  maintenance  and  time 
since  the  organization  of  the  Church.  These  figures  are  not  available 
in  full  detail,  but  from  such  investigation  as  I  have  been  able  to  make 
I  give  you  the  following  estimates.  There  have  been  approximately  sixty 
thousand  missionaries  in  the  Church.  The  average  length  of  a  mission 
is  twenty  months,  or  six  hundred  days.  Thirty-six  million  days  of 
missionary  service  have  been  contributed  at  an  average  expense  out- 
lay of  one  dollar  per  day.  This  money  has  been  taken  out  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  communities  and  spent  away  from  home.  If  the  reasonable 
value  of  a  missionary's  productive  time  may  be  set  at  three  dollars  per 
day  there  may  be  added  to  the  expense  item  one  hundred  eight  millions, 
making  the  grand  total  of  money  cost  of  the  missionary  service  some- 
thing like  one  hundred  forty-four  millions  of  dollars,  a  sum  nearly 
equal  to  the  estimated  cost  of  the  Boulder  dam,  the  largest  project 
of  its  kind  the  United  States  government  has  ever  undertaken. 

The  enormous  cost  of  the  service  has  been  widely  distributed — 
shared  by  nearly  every  family  in  the  Church.  Many  families  have  sent 
forth  more  than  one  missionary  and  not  infrequently  has  a  home  kept 
one  or  more  missionaries  in  the  field  continuously,  for  ten  or  a  dozen 
years,  and  sometimes  for  a  quarter  of  a  century. 

I  know  of  no  way  of  securing  comparable  data  from  other  re- 
ligious bodies,  but  I  venture  the  assertion  that  no  other  church  at  any 
period  in  history  for  a  century  of  time  has  ever  given  to  missionary 
service  such  a  proportion  of  its  membership  and  its  available  resources. 

TWO  GREAT  ARMIES. 

For  a  hundred  years  there  have  been  two  armies  constantly  on  the 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


march — an'  army  of  missionaries  outbound  from  Zion,  carrying  the 
banner  of  Gospel  peace  and  liberty;  an  inbound  army  of  freed  and 
happy  people,  faith  and  hope  shining  in  every  face,  seeking  the  shelter, 
the  inspiration  and  the  glorious  opportunities  of  a  fair  land  and  a  di- 
vinely appointed  society.  Contingents  of  these  armies  have  passed  on 
almost  every  highway  of  the  world ;  in  the  states ;  from  the  Americas, 
North  and  South ;  up  and  down  the  devious  waters  of  the  Mississippi 
where  missionaries  of  the  early  days,  like  Brigham,  and  Heber,  and  Wil- 
lard,  and  Parley,  and  Erastus,  went  on  flatboats  to  embark  on  slow 
sailing  vessels  on  their  long  tedious  voyages  to  their  fields  in  Britain, 
Scandinavia  and  the  Continent ;  across  Europe  to  the  lands  of  the  Arab 
and  the  Turk  and  on  into  far  off  India;  over  the  broad  expanse  of  the 
Pacific  to  and  from  Hawaii  and  the  distant  isles  of  the  South  Seas.  As 
the  missionaries  have  passed  the  immigrants  in  these  great  counter- 
marches of  the  century,  whether  in  their  ships  at  sea  or  as  they  paused 
to  clasp  hands  in  their  weary  trek  across  the  prairie,  one  can  fancy  their 
salutation,  not  always  spoken  perhaps,  but  ever  in  their  hearts.  The 
missionary  says  "We  go  to  carry  the  Gospel."  "Thank  God  we  have  it!" 
the  convert  replies  and  then  adds :  "We  will  follow  you  later."  And 
so,  indeed,  they  have,  in  one  heroic  round.  Missionary  to  convert  then 
convert  to  missionary.  Great  has  been  their  gift.  Generously  have 
they  given. 

VITAL  GIFTS 

What  has  been  given  ?  Why,  to.  every  man  what  he  needed.  To  the 
poor,  they  who  are  so  many,  the  gospel  of  thrift ;  to  the  rich,  who  are 
so  few,  the  gospel  of  giving;  to  the  intemperate,  the  gospel  of  self- 
control  ;  to  the  indolent  the  gospel  of  work ;  to  the  downcast  the  gospel 
of  hope ;  to  the  militant  the  gospel  of  peace ;  to  the  ignorant  freedom 
from  superstition ;  to  the  cynical  and  the  wavering  a  vital,  satisfying 
philosophy ;  to  the  sinner  the  gospel  of  repentance ;  and  to  all  faith,  pur- 
ity idealism,  happiness  and  exaltation. 

Is  it  difficult,  then,  to  discover  the  urge  which  has  made  possible 
this  remarkable  missionary  achievement?  I  think  it  is  not.  Such  gifts, 
such  faith,  such  vital  endowments,  are  highly  esteemed  by  man.  They 
enrich  his  life,  they  enlarge  his  heart  and  fill  him  with  gratitude.  He 
thanks  God  and  seeks  to  express  his  gratitude  in  terms  of  devotion  and 
service.  He  sees  no  service  comparable  to  that  of  giving  to  others  the 
boon  that  he  enjoys,  and  so  he  goes  forth,  not  grudgingly,  not  merely 
out  of  a  painful  sense  of  duty,  but  cheerfully,  eagerly,  to  requite  the 
supreme  blessing  of  his  life  and  derive  new  and  surpassing  joy  in  the 
sharing  of  his  joy. 

INTEREST  IN  MISSIONARY  SERVICE  NOT  DIMINISHED 

I  thank  the  Lord  that  the  ardor  for  the  service  has  not  dulled  with 
the  passing  of  time.  On  every  hand  I  see  evidences  which  convince  me 
that  the  members  of  the  Church  love  to  proclaim  the  Gospel.  If  men  can- 
not go  themselves  they  send  their  sons  and  daughters.    Widows  toil 


ELDER   STEPHEN  L.   RICHARDS  107 


and  scrimp  to  keep  a  missionary.  Girls  work  to  provide  expense  for 
brothers  and  young  husbands.  Quorums,  wards  and  societies  contribute, 
and  occasionally  a  rich  man  opens  up  a  generous  heart  and  maintains 
a  half  dozen  in  the  field. 

Those  who  go  are  blessed  and  the  homes  and  communities  which 
send  them  also.  Crude  country  boys  from  the  farm  and  the  range 
have  been  exposed  to  the  education  and  culture  of  extensive  travel 
and  metropolitan  life  in  the  great  cities.  Young  men  from  the  city  have 
been  subjected  to  the  rigors  of  the  most  primitive  rural  life.  The  knowl- 
edge, the  tolerance,  the  adventure,  the  polish  and  the  experience  which 
world-wide  travel  brings  have  been  during  the  whole  history  of  the 
Church,  a  product  of  our  missionary  system.  I  feel  sure  that  in  no 
other  communities  on  the  earth  is  the  percentage  of  those  who  have 
"seen  the  world"  so  large  as  in  the  villages,  towns  and  cities  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints. 

RESULTS  MORE  VITAL 

Such  benefits,  however,  while  important,  are  but  incidental.  The 
more  vital  results  are  deeper  than  enlarged  information  and  polish.  The 
fundamental  character  of  our  manhood  and  womanhood  has  been  im- 
proved. Sacrifice  has  taught  self-control;  giving  has  made  for  gen- 
erosity as  it  always  does  ;  teaching  the  virtues  has  brought  them  into 
application,  and  high  spirituality  has  ingrained  testimony  and  soul  de- 
velopment. The  general  uplift  in  all  standards  of  living  which  the 
Church  has  brought  to  its  adherents  is  in  no  small  measure  directly  at- 
tributable to  its  missionary  system.  How  it  has  blessed  the  home !  Fath- 
ers who  have  paid  and  prayed,  mothers,  wives,  sisters  and  sweethearts 
who  have  been  anxious  and  worried  and  true,  little  tots  whose  first  lisped 
prayers  have  been,  "Please  God,  keep  our  missionary !"  have  made  the 
home  a  sanctuary  indeed,  the  foundation  of  our  religions  life. 

BY  HUMBLE  MEN  AND  WOMEN 

This  remarkable  missionary  work  has  been  accomplished  by  hum- 
ble men  and  women.  Their  equipment,  in  the  main,  has  not  been  the 
training  of  schools.  It  has  been  the  influence  and  discipline  of  good 
homes,  church  organization,  and  individual  testimony.  The  influence 
of  their  testimonies  and  their  lives  has  been  more  potential  than  their 
preaching.  The  only  eloquence  they  have  required  to  deliver  their  mes- 
sage is  the  eloquence  of  the  message  itself,  portrayed  in  the  devotion 
and  purity  of  their  lives.  They  have  never  had  to  rant  and  yell,  nor 
chant  and  sigh,  to  make  a  convert.  They  have  carried  the  natural, 
simple,  joyous  message  of  the  Christ  in  a  natural,  cheerful  way.  Was 
that  not  the  Savior's  way?  Did  he  not  ever  suit  the  lesson  to  the  peo- 
ple, their  language  and  understanding?  Have  we  any  evidence  that 
he  employed  rituals,  ministerial  garb,  and  sonorous  phrases  to  make  it 
impressive  ?  I  think  we  have  not  and  I  advance  as  a  worthy  argument 
for  the  divine  authenticity  of  the  Gospel  we  bear  the  manner  of  its  pre- 
sentation by  the  missionaries  of  our  Church. 

What  these  ambassadors  of  the  Lord  have  done  for  individuals, 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


families,  communities  and  nations  would  fill  books.  A  half  million 
hearts  today  swell  in  gratitude  for  their  blessed  service.  A  man  con- 
templates his  home,  the  loving  family  which  surround  him,  his  prosper- 
ous business,  the  esteem  of  his  fellow  men,  the  fraternity  of  his  brethren 
in  the  priesthood,  his  faith,  his  contentment,  his  glorious  hopes  ;  and  from 
the  depths  of  his  soul  he  cries :  "God  bless  the  missionary  who  brought 
me  this !" 

AFTER  A  HUNDRED  YEARS 

Well  the  scene  is  set  again,  a  hundred  years  later.  The  world  is 
older  than  it  was,  not  so  provincial,  better  educated,  more  tolerant, 
perhaps  more  indifferent  to  the  uses  of  religion,  certainly  more  free 
from  superstition,  and  infinitely  better  equipped  to  carry  on  the  work 
of  the  world.  Many  things  have  passed  into  history  and  the  great 
beyond.  Hardships  and  cruelties,  thank  the  Lord,  have  lost  their  sting 
and  the  resentment  they  once  provoked.  Men  have  died,  but  they  have 
not  died  in  vain.  Joseph  is  not  here  but  his  successor  is  here.  The 
power  that  sustained  him  is  here.  Here  and  now  are  the  people  and 
the  truth,  the  needs  and  the  opportunities.  I  am  grateful  that  the  mes- 
sage has  not  changed.  It  has  stood  the  test  of  a  century.  It  has  not 
changed  because  it  is  true.    Truth  endures. 

A  REDEDI CATION  TO  A  WORTHY  CAUSE 

For  these  things  we  celebrate.  Our  hearts  cry  out  praises  to  God. 
We  are  subdued  in  the  presence  of  marvelous  accomplishment — his  ac- 
complishment, not  ours.  But  the  triumph  is  not  an  end,  it  is  a  begin- 
ning. The  only  celebration  worthy  of  the  cause  is  a  rededication  to  it. 
Its  progress  has  been  made  by  service.  It  never  required  service  so 
much  as  now.  If  the  Prophet  Joseph  were  here,  and  I  cannot  think  he 
is  far  away,  he  would  speak  as  does  our  President,  charging  us  to  pre- 
pare to  go  forth  into  a  new  century  of  enlarged  opportunity  and  carry 
the  glad  tidings  of  great  joy  to  a  new  generation  of  God's  children. 

So  it  is  the  missionary  who  is  to  serve  the  next  century  as  he  has 
the  old.  God  provide  him  and  God  keep  him,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

If  this  were  a  picture  show  or  an  entertainment  of  some  kind,  the 
people  would  willingly  stay  to  the  close  even  if  we  had  to  be  together 
two  hours;  or,  if  it  were  amusing,  three  hours.  Therefore  I  am  going 
to  take  your  time  and  keep  you  here  a  little  longer  than  usual. 

THE  MARTYRDOM 

I  am  going  to  read  something  that  I  believe  was  written  by  John 
Taylor,  who  received  four  rifle  balls  in  his  body,  as  I  remember,  at  the 
martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  the  Patriarch. 

"To  seal  the  testimony  of  this  book  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  we  announce 
the  martyrdom  of  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet,  and  Hyrum  Smith  the  Patriarch 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


109 


They  were  shot  in  Carthage  jail,  on  the  27th  of  June,  1844,  about  five  o'clock 
p.  m.,  by  an  armed  mob— painted  black — of  from  150  to  200  persons.  Hyrum  was 
shot  first  and  fell  calmly,  exclaiming:  /  am  a  dead  man!  Joseph  leaped  from 
the  window,  and  was  shot  dead  in  the  attempt,  exclaiming:  O  Lord  my  God! 
They  were  both  shot  after  they  were  dead,  in  a  brutal  manner,  and  both  received 
four  balls. 

"John  Taylor  and  Willard  Richards,  two  of  the  Twelve,  were  the  only 
persons  in  the  room  at  the  time ;  the  former  was  wounded  in  a  savage  manner 
with  four  balls,  but  has  since  recovered ;  the  latter,  through  the  providence  of 
God,  escaped,  without  even  a  hole  in  his  robe. 

"Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  and  Seer  of  the  Lord,  has  done  more,  save 
Jesus  only,  for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this  world,  than  any  other  man  that 
ever  lived  in  it.  In  the  short  space  of  twenty  years,  he  has  brought  forth  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  which  he  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  and  has 
been  the  means  of  publishing  it  on  two  continents;  has  sent  the  fulness  of  the 
everlasting  Gospel,  which  it  contained,  to  the  four  quarters  of  the  earth ;  has 
brought  forth  the  revelations  and  commandments  which  compose  this  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  many  other  wise  documents  and  instructions  for 
the  benefit  of  the  children  of  men ;  ,  gathered  many  thousands  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  founded  a  great  city,  and  left  a  fame  and  name  that  cannot  be  slain. 
He  lived  great,  and  he  died  great  in  the  eyes  of  God  and  his  people;  and  like 
most  of  the  Lord's  anointed  in  ancient  times,  has  sealed  his  mission  and  his 
works  with  his  own  blood ;  and  so  has  his  brother  Hyrum.  In  life  they  were 
not  divided,  and  in  death  they  were  not  separated ! 

"When  Joseph  went  to  Carthage  to  deliver  himself  up  to  the  pretended 
requirements  of  the  law,  two  or  three  days  previous  to  his  assassination,  he  said : 
'I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter ;  but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's  morning ; 
I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God,  and  towards  all  men.  I 
shall  die  innocent,  and  it  shall  yet  be  said  of  me — he  was  murdered  in  cold  blood.' 
The  same  morning,  after  Hyrum  had  made  ready  to  go — shall  it  be  said  to  the 
slaughter?  yes,  for  so  it  was — he  read  the  following  paragraph,  near  the  close 
of  the  twelfth  chapter  of  Ether  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  turned  down  the 
leaf  upon  it: 

"  'And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  prayed  unto  the  Lord  that  he  would  give  unto 
the  Gentiles  grace,  that  they  might  have  charity.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  the 
Lord  said  unto  me :  If  they  have  not  charity  it  mattereth  not  unto  thee,  thou 
hast  been  faithful ;  wherefore'  thy  garments  are  clean.  And  because  thou  hast 
seen  thy  weakness,  thou  shalt  be  made  strong,  even  unto  the  sitting  down  in 
the  place  which  I  have  prepared  in  the  mansions  of  my  Father.  And  now  I 
*  *  *  bid  farewell  unto  the  Gentiles ;  yea,  and  also  unto  my  brethren,  whom 
I  love,  until  we  shall  meet  before  the  judgment-seat  of  Christ,  where  all  men 
shall  know  that  my  garments  are  not  spotted  with  your  blood.'  The  testators 
are  now  dead,  and  their  testament  is  in  force. 

"Hyrum  Smith  was  forty-four  years  old  in  February,  1844,  and  Joseph 
Smith  was  thirty-eight  in  December,  1843 ;  and  henceforward  their  names  will 
be  classed  among  the  martyrs  of  religion ;  and  the  reader  in  every  nation  will 
be  reminded  that  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  this  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants 
of  the  Church,  cost  the  best  blood  of  the  nineteenth  century  to  bring  them 
forth  for  the  salvation  of  a  ruined  world ;  and  that  if  the  fire  can  scathe  a 
green  tree  for  the  glory  of  God,  how  easy  it  will  burn  up  the  dry  trees  tc 
purify  the  vineyard  of  corruption.  They  lived  for -glory;  they  died  for  glory; 
and  glory  is  their  eternal  reward.  From  age  to  age  shall  their  names  go  down 
to  posterity  as  gems  for  the  sanctified. 

"They  were  innocent  of  any  crime,  as  they  had  often  been  proved  before, 
and  were  only  confined  in  jail  by  the  conspiracy  of  traitors  and  wicked  men ;  and 
their  innocent .  blood  on  the  floor  of  Carthage  jail  is  a  broad  seal  affixled  to 
"Mormonism"  that  cannot  be  rejected  by  any  court  on  earth,  and  their  innocent 
blood  on  the  escutcheon  of  the  state  of  Illinois,  with  the  broken  faith  of  the  state 
as  pledged  by  the  governor,  is  a  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  Gospel 
that  all  the  world  cannot  impeach ;  and  their  innocent  blood  on  the  banner  of 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


liberty,  and  on  the  magna  charta  of  the  United  States,  is  an  ambassador  for  the 
religion  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  will  touch  the  hearts  of  honest  men  among  all 
nations;  and  their  innocent  blood,  with  the  innocent  blood  of  all  the  martyrs 
under  the  altar  that  John  saw,  will  cry  unto  the  Lord  of  Hosts  till  he  avenges 
that  blood  on  the  earth.  Amen." 

John  Taylor  lived,  notwithstanding  those  frightful  wounds,  to  be 
the  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  of  God.  A  son  of  Hyrum  Smith 
lived  to  be  the  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  in  your  day  and  mine. 
Today  you  have  listened  to  the  testimony  from  this  stand  of  a  grandson 
of  Hyrum  Smith,  and  you  have  just  listened  to  the  testimony  of  a 
grandson  of  Willard  Richards,  who  was  with  the  Prophet  and  Patriarch 
at  the  time  of  the  martyrdom. 

ENDORSES  REMARKS 

I  endorse  with  all  my  heart  the  many  words  of  inspiration  that 
we  have  heard  from  the  opening  of  this  conference  until  the  present  time. 
I  join  with  others  in  praying  Almighty  God  to  bless  those  who  go  forth 
to  proclaim  the  Gospel,  who  go  forth  to  proclaim  the  restoration  again 
to  the  earth  of  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation. 

TESTIMONY  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND  SIDNEY  RIGDON 

I  rejoice  that  the  wonderful  vision  recorded  in  the  76th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  was  given  not  only  to  Joseph  Smith, 
but  to  Sidney  Rigdon  : 

"And  this  is  the  Gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us — 

"That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse  it 
from  all  unrighteousness. 

"That  'through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his 
power  and  made  by  him ; 

"Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  works  of  his  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him." 

T  thank  the  Lord  that  Joseph  Smith  was  not  alone,  but  that 
Sidney  Rigdon  was  with  him  and  that  they  were  able  to  declare  to 
all  the  world: 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :    That  he  lives  ! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God  ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father — 

"That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were  created, 
and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto  God." 

God  lives.  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God.  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  true  and  the  living  God.  The  power  of 
the  priesthood  of  God  is  upon  the  earth  and  will  remain,  and  those 
who  think  that  possibly  something  may  arise  that  will  prevent  this 
Church  from  progressing  know  not  the  truth,  or  they  would  declare 
to  all  the  world  that  it  has  been  established  never  again  to  be  taken 
from  the  earth. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER   J.  GRANT 


111 


The  chorus  sang  "The  Lord  hath  done  marvelous  things,"  after 
which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Franklin  S.  Richards, 
the  oldest  living  son  of  the  late  Apostle  Franklin  D.  Richards. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2 :0O  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  was  opened  at  2  o'clock  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
who  announced  that  the  opening  hymn  would  be  "Come,  let  us  anew." 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  furnished  by 
the  Latter-day  Saints  College  Festival  Chorus,  under  the  leadership  or 
George  H.  Durham. 

After  the  chorus  and  congregation  had  sung  the  opening  number, 
the  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley. 

The  chorus  then  sang  the  anthem,  "The  heavens  resound." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  never  seem  to  have  all  the  time  that  we  would  like  to  have  at 
our  conferences.  Therefore,  we  have  arranged  for  two  extra  sessions 
tomorrow,  and  we  do  most  sincerely  hope  that  the  people  will  fill  this 
building  at  our  closing  sessions.  We  have  in  the  past  had  to  draw 
our  inspiration  partly  from  empty  benches  on  the  last  day  of  our 
conference  when  that  has  fallen  on  a  week  day.  We  hope  that  on  this 
centennial  occasion  this  will  not  be  the  case. 

We  dislike  very  much  to  limit  the  time  of  our  speakers,  but  we 
had  a  message  from  one  of  the  senior  apostles  which  took  me  only 
seven  and  one-half  minutes  to  read ;  so  we  are  going  to  call  on  some  of 
our  brethren  to  speak  to  us  and  ask  them  to  be  satisfied  with  the  same 
length  of  time  that  Brother  Smoot  had. 

Our  first  speaker  will  be  Elder  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  President  of 
the  Central  States  Mission,  who  has  been  laboring  in  that  mission  for 
more  than  twenty  years  as  its  president. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  able  to  greet  you 
upon  this  occasion,  and  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this 
great  work.  I  am  sure  that  we  have  all  been  thrilled  with  the  inspiration 
that  has  accompanied  each  speaker.  To  me  it  has  brought  many  mem- 
ories of  past  experiences  in  general  conference  assemblies. 

An  opportunity  has  come  to  me  that  few  men,  I  presume,  have 
had — that  of  laboring  as  a  missionary  for  more  than  a  quarter  of 
a  century.  When  President  McMurrin  was  speaking  yesterday,  I 
thought  of  the  day  that  he  set  me  apart,  in  1904.  In  those  days  they 
wrote  the  blessings  that  were  pronounced  upon  the  missionaries  who 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


went  forth.  I  didn't  know  many  of  the  brethren  who  were  there  on 
that  occasion,  but  Brother  McMurrin  was  the  mouthpiece ;  and  he  told 
me  in  that  blessing  that  I  should  stay  "to  the  very  uttermost,"  but 
that  I  should  be  returned  home  in  the  end.  I  didn't  think  much  about 
it  at  the  time,  but  began  to  realize  its  significance  about  five  years 
later  when  I  read  it  again,  and  I  was  very  much  impressed  yesterday 
when  he  spoke  in  regard  to  promises  made  to  himself,  as  it  reminded 
me  of  the  time  that  he  set  me  apart.  The  words  of  the  Lord  that 
come  to  those  who  are  set  apart  to  go  and  preach  the  Gospel  are  surely 
to  be  fulfilled.  They  will  not  fail  if  the  men  and  women  to  whom  they 
are  given  will  do  their  part. 

I  am  glad  to  have  gone  into  the  world.  I  have  found  faith  in  the 
world.  I  have  found  hundreds  and  thousands  of  people  who  have  faith 
in  God  and  all  they  lack  is  an  opportunity  to  know  how  to  live  to  de- 
velop that  faith.  Splendid  men  and  splendid  women  are  awaiting  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  thankful  unto  the  Lord  that  he  has  given  us  an  opportunity 
to  grow  in  a  knowledge  of  God,  and  I  am  thankful  for  the  great 
men  who  have  been  appointed  to  lead  Israel  in  these  latter  days.  The 
reason  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  flourished  and  grown  as  it 
has  is  because  its  leaders  have  lived  in  harmony  with  God,  and  other 
men  and  women  who  have  been  associated  with  them  lived  in  harmony 
with  them.  These  have  believed  in  the  leaders  and  the  leaders  have 
believed  in  God — they  have  walked  in  the  presence  of  God.  I  have 
learned  long  ago  that  the  Lord  our  God,  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
is  carefully  guarding  the  interests  of  this  great  Church.  He  estab- 
lished it.  He  came  into  the  world  and  introduced  his  Son  to  Joseph 
Smith,  directing  him  to  organize  the  Church.  There  is  no  other  people 
bearing  the  authority  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  act  in  the  name  of 
God,  and  I  bear  this  testimony  to  all  men  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

One  of  the  great  outstanding  characteristics  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  is  their  love  for  God  and  fellowmen.  This  sublime  love  finds 
its  perfection  in  God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 

"For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the  world  to  condemn  the  world ;  but  that 
the  world  through  him  might  be  saved."    (John  3:16-17.) 

The  power  to  suffer  and  the  will  to  sacrifice  is  always  encased  in 
great  love,  and  surely  only  God  could  have  suffered  as  he  did  in  send- 
ing his  Only  Begotten  Son  into  the  world  to  be  slain  for  the  sins  of  the 
world. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  suffered  so  much,  that  he,  the  greatest  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


113 


all,  even  God,  sweat  great  drops  of  blood,  that  men  might  not  suffer 
if  they  would  repent.  If  the  Savior  had  not  come  into  the  world 
and  endured  the  suffering  of  death  there  would  have  been  no  re- 
demption for  mankind. 

We  see  this  love  for  God  and  fellowmen  manifested  and  expressed 
in  the  lives  of  all  the  holy  prophets  of  God.  Think  of  Abinadi,  the 
Book  of  Mormon  pronhet,  who.  knowmg  that  he  was  going  to  certain 
death,  voluntarily  delivered  himself  into  the  hands  of  wicked  men 
that  he  might  declare  unto  them  the  word  of  God.  The  evil  priests 
clamored  that  he  be  slain  and  Abinadi  suffered  death  by  fire  because 
he  would  not  deny  the  commandments  of  God.  His  last  words  were : 
"O  God,  receive  my  soul."  He  sealed  the  truth  of  his  words  by  his 
death. 

We  think  of  Alma,  the  high  priest,  resigning  the  office  of  chief 
judge  of  the  Nephite  nation  to  go  and  preach  repentance  to  the  people. 
We  remember  that  the  three  sons  of  Mosiah  refused  a  kingdom  in  order 
that  they  might  preach  the  word  of  God  to  a  hardened  and  ferocious 
people.  And  this  inspiration,  this  great  love,  for  where  there  is  great 
love  there  is  the  will  to  sacrifice  and  to  suffer,  was  found  in  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  who  said :  "If  my  life  is  of  no  value  to  my  friends,  it 
is  of  no  value  to  myself."  This  same  spirit,  I  testify  to  you,  has  been 
most  nobly  expressed  in  the  lives  of  all  the  successors  to  the  Prophet 
of  God. 

I  repeat,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  where  there  is  great  love  for  the 
Lord  and  his  children,  there  is  also  great  love  and  the  will  to  sacrifice 
and  to  suffer.  This  work  has  made  the  Latter-day  Saints  great  because 
it  is  a  great  work.  Substituting  two  words  in  a  famous  college  song, 
the  sentiment  in  that  song  may  be  applied  to  this  Church. 

,          ■  -  '  -  -flfc-. 

"Mother  of  men  grown  strong  in  giving, 
Honor  to  him  thy  lights  have  led. 
Rich  in  the  toil  of  thousands  living; 
Proud  of  the  deeds  of  thousands  dead." 
We  who  have  felt  thy  power,  and  known  thee : 
We  in  whose  lives  thy  lights  avail, 
High  in  our  hearts,  enshrine,  enthrone  thee, 
Mother  of  men— the  Church." 

Truly  the  Church  is  the  mother  of  men. 

That  soul-reviving  blessing  from  our  beloved  President,  Sunday 
morning,  thrilled  home  to  our  hearts,  and  we,  the  people  of  Israel,  love 
our  leader.  We  proclaim  that  we  ask  the  blessings  of  God  upon  our 
prophet,  and  upon  all  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  for  with 
them,  by  the  help  of  the  Most  High,  we  propose  to  go  on  to  the  glorious 
consummation  of  the  work  of  God.  In  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

1  President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Three  clays  hence  will  be  commemorated  in  the  great  Northwest, 
the  centennial  of  the  pioneers  to  the  state  of  Oregon.  On  the  10th 
day  of  April,  1830,  eighty-three  men,  fur  traders,  trappers,  and  as- 
sistants, left  St.  Louis,  Missouri,  and  they  traversed  the  trail  now  known 
as  the  Oregon  Trail  and  arrived  in  Oregon,  and  from  the  10th  until 
the  29th  day  of  December  that  wonderful  event  will  be  commemorated. 
The  President  of  the  United  States,  senators  and  other  leading  men 
have  given  approval  of  this  great  commemoration. 

Today  we  commemorate  an  event.  I  should  like  to  read  just  a 
word  or  two  from  one  of  the  editorials  of  a  newspaper  in  Portland. 

"The  Pacific  Northwest  has  profited  by  a  share  of  the  growth  and  influence 
of  the  Mormon  Church.  Latter-day  Saint  missionaries  were  first  sent  to 
Portland  in  1896.  The  Northwestern  States  Mission  was  formed  the  following 
year.  The  Church  has  now  a  Portland  membership  of  one  thousand  and  a 
local  investment  of  more  than  two  hundred  thousand  dollars,  including  a 
handsome  chapel,  dedicated  a  year  ago.  Wherever  they  are,  the  Mormons  today 
should  find  full  measure  of  appreciation  and  congratulation  on  their  century 
achievements." 

I  should  like  to  read  another  clipping  from  a  recent  magazine: 

"Greatest  Power  in  Spiritual  Forces. 
"What  line  of  research  will  see  the  greatest  development  within  the  next  fifty 
years  ?  This  is  the  question  that  Robert  Babson  asked  the  late  Charles  P.  Steinmetz 
while  the  world's  foremost  electrical  engineer  was  visiting  in  the  home  of  the 
nation's  leading  business  statistician.  It  was  natural  to  suppose  that  a  scientist  who 
had  given  nearly  half  a  century  to  inventive  processes  would  be  thinking  in  terms 
of  the  future  development  of  radio,  aeronautics,  or  power  transmission.  Instead 
Mr.  Steinmetz  replied :  'Mr.  Babson,  [  think  the  greatest  discovery  will  be  made 
along  spiritual  lines.  Here  is  a  force  which  history  clearly  teaches  has  been  the 
greatest  power  in  the  development  of  men  and  history.  Yet  we  have  merely  been 
playing  with  it  and  have  never  seriously  studied  it  as  we  have  the  physical  forces. 
Some  day  people  will  learn  that  material  things  do  not  bring  happiness  and  are  of 
little  use  in  making  men  and  women  creative  and  powerful.  Then  the  scientists 
of  the  world  will  turn  their  laboratories  over  to  the  study  of  God  and  prayer  and 
the  spiritual  forces  which  as  yet  have  hardly  been  scratched.  When  this  day 
comes,  the  world  will  see  more  advancement  in  one  generation  than  it  has 
seen  in  the  past  four." 

"  'If  radio's  slim  fingers 
Can  pluck  a  melody 
From  night  and  toss  it  over 
A  continent  or  sea; 
If  petaled  white  notes 
Of  a  violin 

Are  blown  across  a  mountain 
Or  a  city's  din; 
If  songs  like  crimson  roses 
Are  culled  from  thin,  blue  air. 
Why  should  mortals  wonder 
If  God  hears  prayer?'" 

In  the  pageant  the  other  evening  were  six  thousand  men  and 


ELDER    WILLIAM   R.  SLOAN 


115 


women,  all  standing  on  their  feet,  faces  toward  the  beacon  light,  singing 
in  unison,  "Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow." 

I  know  this  work  is  of  God,  and  I  rejoice  in  this  most  glorious 
privilege  that  I  have  enjoyed,  being  one  of  those  mission  presidents 
on  whom  God's  prophets,  in  all  love  and  kindness  gave  such  a  wonderful 
blessing.    I  hope  the  Lord  will  bless  me. 

I  extend  greetings  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  from  your 
sons  and  your  daughters  in  the  -Northwestern  States  Mission.  They 
are  noble,  sweet,  pure,  God-fearing  boys  and  girls.  The  Lord  loves 
and  is  magnifying  them,  and  they  are  measuring  up  admirably  to  the 
responsibilities  imposed  upon  them. 

This  is  my  prayer,  my  testimony  of  the  truth  of  his  work.  I  bear 
it  humbly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  pur  Redeemer,  Amen. 

ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  very  humble  and  very  happy 
to  have  the  privilege  of  reporting  the  Northern  States  Mission  of 
the  Church.  We  have  something  like  one  hundred  missionaries  in  that 
field  at  the  present  time.  Last  month  fifteen  of  our  most  experienced 
missionaries  were  released,  and  only  one  was  sent  there.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  we  need  your  sons  and  daughters,  and  some  of  you,  my 
brethren  of  the  authorities  of  the  wards  and  stakes.  Your  services 
are  much  appreciated,  have  been  and  will  be,  in  the  great  ministry  of 
the  Church. 

Last  year  we  sold  eight  thousand  and  one  Books  of  Mormon  in 
our  mission.  We  loaned  thirteen  thousand  four  hundred  fifty-three 
copies.  In  sales  and  loans  a  few  less  than  twenty-three  thousand  five 
hundred  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  were  placed  in  the  hands  of 
the  inhabitants  of  our  area.  With  a  population  of  between  twenty-five 
and  thirty  millions  of  people,  however,  in  those  six  states,  you  can 
readily  understand  what  a  vast  field  and  enormous  work  there  is  for 
a  hundred  or  a  hundred  and  twenty-five  missionaries  to  perform.  With 
a  possible  exception  or  two,  our  missionaries  are  in  the  enjoyment  of 
good  health;  they  are  happy,  industrious,  humble,  and  faithful  in 
their  work.    The  blessings  of  the  Lord  attend  their  labors. 

Recently,  last  month  in  fact,  we  were  impressed  to  send  two  of 
our  fine  young  elders  into  a  portion  of  the  state  of  Iowa  that  our  mis- 
sionaries had  not  tracted  or  labored  in  for  some  time  in  the  past.  These, 
two  young  men,  going  into  the  city  of  Dubuque,  where  our  elders  had 
not  been  for  a  number  of  years,  felt  rather  discouraged  at  the  con- 
clusion of  the  first  week's  work.  The  following  Sunday  morning  they 
were  impressed  to  visit  the  Sunday  School  of  the  First  Congrega- 
tional church  of  that  city.  The  superintendent  gave  them  a  fine  wel- 
come.   After  the  preliminary  exercises  they  were  invited  to  speak  to 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  membership  of  that  Sunday  School.  They  made  a  fine  impression, 
in  a  few  brief  remarks.  The  minister  greeted  them,  invited  them  to 
dine  with  him,  brought  them  back  to  his  evening  service  and  gave 
them  an  opportunity  of  preaching  the  Gospel  to  a  hundred  and  fifty 
or  two  hundred  members  of  his  church.  A  very  similar  circumstance 
happened  almost  simultaneously  in  Evansville,  Indiana,  where  two  of 
our  young  elders  found  a  Pentecostal  minister,  who  welcomed  them 
to  his  church  and  they  had  the  privilege  of  preaching  the  Gospel  to  a 
hundred  and  fifty  or  two  hundred  members  of  that  faith. 

I  have  been  very  much  impressed  by  the  manner  in  which  the  work 
is  progressing  in  our  organizations.  Sister  Pond  has  much  pleasure 
in  the  Relief  Society  work  of  the  mission,  where  she  has  nineteen 
societies.  The  Young  Men's,  the  Young  Ladies',  the  Sunday  School,  and 
the  Primary  organizations  are  progressing ;  so  also  is  the  Aaronic  priest- 
hood. W!e  have  it  under  as  capable  supervision  as  it  is  possible  to  pro- 
vide, and  we  are  very  happy  to  note  that  the  work  is  progressing. 

The  outstanding  feature  of  our  work  during  the  last  month  was  the 
visit  of  our  dear  President  Grant,  that  we  were  favored  with.  He  came 
into  our  mission  and  remained  with  us  from  February  16th  to  February 
25th.  During  that  time  we  had  the  privilege  of  dedicating  the  new 
chapel  in  Columbus.  Ohio,  and  our  beautiful  chapel  in  the  University 
branch  in  the  city  of  Chicago ;  likewise  visiting  the  chapel  that  had  been 
completed  during  the  past  two  years  in  the  city  of  Detroit,  where  we 
have  a  beautiful  building  and  a  fine  congregation  of  our  membership, 
and  active  work.  He  also  had  the  privilege  of  visiting  our  chapels  and 
our  congregations  in  Dayton  and  Cincinnati,  Ohio,  also  Milwaukee,  Wis- 
consin. Immediately  following  this  visit  a  number  of  baptisms  were 
performed.  The  saints  and  the  missionaries  will  never  forget  the 
marvelous  impression,  the  testimony,  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that 
accompanied  the  visit  of  President  Grant.  We  have  been  favored,  since 
our  entry  into  the  mission  with  a  visit  from  Apostle  Ballard,  likewise 
a  tour  of  the  mission  by  Apostle  Orson  F.  Whitney.  These  brethren 
of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  welcome.  The  saints, 
friends,  investigators  and  missionaries  will  travel  hundreds  of  miles  for 
a  single  opportunity  of  meeting  and  hearing  the  words  of  inspiration 
that  fall  from  the  lips  of  the  servants  of  God. 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  report  the  progress  of  the 
work  in  the  Northern  States  Mission,  where  we  are  also  sending  out 
missionaries.  I  am  also  happy  because  of  our  baptisms.  Five  baptisms 
were  performed  the  first  Sunday  after  President  Grant's  visit.  I  have 
a  letter,  just  received  today,  from  our  mission  secretary  in  connection 
with  other  matters,  in  which  he  said  that  the  services  in  Chicago  last 
Sunday  were  outstanding.  Both  our  chapels  were  filled  to  capacity,  a 
pageant  in  one  and  a  specially  prepared  program  in  the  other.  Seven 
baptisms  were  performed  in  the  city  of  Chicago  last  Sunday  afternoon. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  joy  and  pleasure  in  this  great 
work.   May  we  have  more  of  your  sons  and  daughters,  and  some  of  you 


ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 


117 


brethren  of  bishoprics,  high  councils  and  stake  presidencies,  for  you 
little  appreciate  the  value  of  your  services  until  you  have  filled  a  three, 
four,  five  or  six  months  mission  in  the  mission  fields  of  the  Church. 

God  bless  the  presiding  authorities  of  this  great  Church.  And 
God  bless  our  young  people  in  the  mission  fields,  for  there  also  they 
are  preparing  for  this  missionary  work.  The  Northern  States  Mission 
has  within  the  last  few  months  or  years,  sent  out  eight  missionaries  into 
other  mission  fields.  We  are  happy  to  note  that  we  have  two  young 
sister  missionaries  in  the  mission  home  at  this  time,  preparing  for  the 
California  and  the  Northwestern  States  missions.  And  our  young 
people  are  learning  and  are  desirous  of  becoming  familiar  with  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel,  that  from  the  mission  field  they  also  may  go 
forward  and  preach  this  great  Gospel. 

I  testify  of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I 
cannot  recount  a  more  happy  moment  or  period  in  my  life  than  we  have 
enjoyed  in  this  centennial.  When  I  read  the  other  evening  of  our 
friends,  the  Reorganites,  celebrating  in  Independence,  Missouri,  six 
or  seven  thousand  strong,  the  centennial  of  their  church,  I  wondered 
how  they  would  reconcile  thirty  years  which  they  must  falsify  in  his- 
tory, or  they  must  abandon  the  word  "Reorganization."  How  can 
they  be  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  celebrate 
one  hundred  years  of  its  existence,  when  they  came  into  existence 
thirty  years  after  the  original  Church  was  organized. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  with  faithfulness.  I  testify  to  the  truth- 
fulness of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  pray  for  his  blessings  upon 
the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the  Apostles,  the  presidency  and 
priesthood  at  home,  all  the  membership  of  the  Church  throughout  the 
world,  and  all  the  good  and  true  and  the  noble  with  whom  we  labor, 
and  to  whom  we  are  seeking  to  bring  the  Gospel,  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation.  I  pray  for  our  Father's  blessings  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

It  is  a  great  honor  to  bring  you  the  greetings  of  the  saints  and 
missionaries  who  labor  in  the  Western  States  Mission.  Many  of 
them  would  have  liked  to  be  here  to  enjoy  these  services,  even  as  you 
have.  But  I  counseled  them  to  remain  at  home  and  hold  such  services 
as  they  were  capable  of  conducting  and  to  invite  as  many  friends  as  they 
could  possibly  get  to  attend  our  services  in  the  twenty-seven  branches 
that  we  have  in  the  mission.  Services  have  been  arranged  and  have 
been  held  in  all  of  those  branches  and  also  in  a  number  of  places  where 
we  have  only  Sunday  Schools.  As  far  as  it  was  possible  we  have 
celebrated  in  a  fitting  manner  this  wonderful  event. 

The  conference  to  me  has  been  a  tremendous  inspiration.  If  I 
were  to  think  of  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  as  a  servant  of 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Lord,  without  the  thought  that  God  is  directing  the  work,  I  would 
be  so  completely  overwhelmed  as  to  be  unable  to  proceed.  I  know  that 
we  are  in  our  Father's  work,  that  his  power  is  behind  us ;  and  it  gives 
me,  as  it  gives  my  brethren,  courage  to  proceed  with  the  work,  with 
confidence  that  it  will  triumph  and  grow  and  spread  over  all  the  earth. 

In  the  Western  States  Mission  the  saints  are  faithful.  They  are 
good  tithe-payers,  they  are  attending  their  meetings  in  goodly  number, 
they  are  trying  to  the  extent  of  their  ability  to  spread  the  word  among 
their  friends.  They  are  trying  to  set  an  example  to  others,  to  show 
them  that  by  being  members  of  the  Church  they  have  lived  better  lives 
than  they  would  have  done  otherwise ;  and  in  that  way  are  preaching 
the  Gospel  by  example.  And  in  all  respects  we  are  endeavoring  to 
serve  the  Lord. 

It  is  my  hope  and  prayer  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  that  I  may 
be  able  to  take  back  from  this  conference  a  message  to  the  saints  and 
missionaries  that  will  at  least  supplement  the  impressions  they  have 
already  received  from  the  meetings  they  have  held  and  what  radio  « 
reception  they  may  have  enjoyed. 

May  God  bless  and  inspire  his  servants  who  preside  over  the 
Church,  that  they  may  ever  be  true  to  their  trust.  May  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  sustain  them  and  love  them  and  uphold  their  hands  by 
being  faithful  to  your  trust,  that  the  Church  may  grow  and  flourish 
as  we  know  it  will.  As  has  been  so  splendidly  expressed  here,  the 
thought  is  there  is  no  danger  that  the  Church  will  not  proceed  and 
grow ;  the  danger  is  that  you  or  I  may  fall  by  the  wayside. 

I  humbly  pray  that  we  may  never  lose  our  faith,  but  that  we  may 
be  able  to  keep  step  with  the  progress  of  the  great  Church  which  has 
given  us  this  wonderful  inspiration  and  through  which  we  are  so 
greatly  blessed.  I  pray  God  to  bless  you,  to  bless  the  saints  everywhere, 
to  bless  you  who  are  preparing  to  send  missionaries  out,  that  you  may 
be  able  to  send  them,  and  that  you  may  be  prospered  so  that  you  can 
care  for  them.  I  do  want  to  make  a  plea,  as  President  Pond  has  done, 
that  you  send  your  sons  into  the  mission  field.  I  think  our  mission 
has  never  been  so  low  in  numbers  as  at  the  present  time.  We  released 
twenty-eight  missionaries  last  month,  and  received  three.  We  are  badly 
in  need  of  help.  Those  we  have  are  laboring  valiantly  and  splendidly, 
and  I  have  pleasure  in  reporting  that  all  are  well. 

God  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

In  view  of  the  necessity  for  brevity,  I  trust  President  Grant  will, 
if  necessary,  assist  me  in  keeping  within  my  allotted  time. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  the  Eastern  States  Mission  is  in  a 
healthy,  growing  condition.  The  missionaries  are  enjoying  good  health, 
with  rare  exceptions,  and  doing  splendid  work.  Although  there  are 
few  baptisms,  I  know  that  there  are  many  friends  being  made  and 


ELDER   JAMES   H.  MOYLE 


119 


converts  who  are  not  being  baptized.  Intelligent,  influential  men  have 
openly  confessed  to  me  that  they  were  converted  and  believed  all  that 
we  teach,  but  that  they  couldn't  break  the  hearts  of  their  wives  and 
embarrass  their  relatives  socially,  and  could  not  make  the  sacrifice  at 
present  and  break  away  from  their  life-long  associations.  But  they 
are  real  friends.  One  thing  is  certain,  that  our  young  missionaries, 
though  not  baptizing  many,  have  a  personal  development  that  is  in- 
valuable, an  accomplishment  that  will  go  with  and  influence  for  good 
their  lives,  and  which  will  be  of  as  much  importance  to  them  as  if  they 
had  spent  the  same  time  in  a  great  university. 

I  was  greatly  interested  in  President  Roberts'  relation  of  the 
prophecy  of  Joseph  Smith,  that  there  would  be  organized  in  the  city  of 
New  York  a  stake  of  Zion.  One  year  ago,  from  this  stand,  I  stated 
that  I  had  been  very  greatly  impressed  with  the  fact  that  we  needed 
such  an  organization  in  greater  New  York  City  and  its  environs. 
When  I  entered  the  mission  in  January,  a  year  ago,  the  branch  presi- 
dency said  that  there  were  three  hundred  members  enrolled  in  the  New 
York  City  branch  alone.  That  does  not  include  the  Brooklyn  branch 
and  some  small  adjacent  branches.  We  have  been  making  a  real  effort 
to  find  the  names  and  residence  of  the  members  of  the  Church, 
especially  those  who  have  come  from  these  valleys  east,  and  who  live 
in  that  great  and  populous  center.  Now  the  branch  presidency  say- 
that  they  believe  there  are  fifteen  hundred,  where  we  only  had  three 
hundred  of  record.  At  our  conference  held  in  New  York  City  in 
February  a  year  ago,  we  had  about  two  hundred  and  fifty  people 
present,  which  was  considered  a  large  audience.  At  the  conference  held 
a  month  ago  tomorrow,  at  which  President  Grant  and  Apostle  Ballard 
were  present,  there  were  seven  hundred  and  fifty  present,  and  the  hall, 
rented  especially  for  the  occasion,  couldn't  hold  all  that  came.  They 
were  standing  up  and  the  aisles  were  filled.  A  similar  condition  existed 
in  Washington,  where  we  had  about  four  hundred  present,  and  where 
there  was  no  organized  branch  of  the  Church  prior  to  the  great  war. 
On  the  9th  of  March  we  not  only  held  a  meeting  in  our  chapel  at 
Brooklyn,  at  ten  o'clock  a.  m.,  into  which  was  crowded  something  over 
three  hundred  people,  but  at  two  o'clock  in  Newark,  New  Jersey,  another 
meeting  was  held  with  over  two  hundred  present.  That  branch  was 
organized  only  a  few  years  since.  Then  in  the  evening,  in  New  York 
City,  we  had  the  large  meeting  referred  to,  which  was  by  far  the 
largest  gathering  of  saints  ever  held  in  New  York  City. 

One  of  the  material  contributing  reasons  for  the  growing  interest 
in  the  Church  there,  was  the  presence  there  a  month  or  two  before  of 
Presidents  Ivins  and  Nibley,  who  spent  a  week  or  ten  days  studying 
the  needs  of  our  members  in  Washington  and  New  York  City.  They 
were  impressed  with  the  necessity  for  a  more  appropriate  and  per- 
manent place  in  which  to  assemble.  That  fact,  and  the  interest  which 
President  Grant  and  his  counselors  manifested,  together  with  the 
presence  of  Apostle  Ballard,  did  arouse  a  real  interest  in  our  conference, 
which  I  am  sure  will  be  fruitful. 

I  have  been  greatly  surprised,  and  deeply  impressed,  with  the 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fact  that  the  sentiment  in  the  east  toward  our  people  is  greatly  changed. 
This  is  true  especially  among  the  financial,  industrial,  and  commercial 
leaders  of  the  country,  who  have  evidently  become  acquainted  with 
our  people  and  their  accomplishments,  and  the  character  and  merits 
of  our  young  people,  for  they  have  been  selecting  a  surprising  number 
of  them,  in  view  of  the  small  number  of  our  people,  as  executives  in 
such  instiutions.  And  why  should  they  be  looking  for  the  kind  of 
young  men  we  are  producing  in  these  mountains?  Because  they  have 
been  trained  and  reared  in  the  homes  of  Latter-day  Saints,  where  the 
Word  of  Wisdom  has  been  observed.  They  are  looking  for  sober, 
temperate,  industrious,  God-fearing  men,  and  there  is  no  place  in  the 
world  where  they  can  be  found  more  than  here.  The  time  has  passed, 
in  my  opinion,  when  our  Mormon  boys  should  feel  that  they  are 
discriminated  against  by  the  men  who  stand  at  the  head  of  these  great 
institutions.  I  am  sure  this  is  true.  Men  and  women  developed  here 
under  the  conditions  named,  are  also  successful  and  active  physicians, 
with  a  splendid  practice ;  lawyers,  occupying  places  in  the  leading  law 
offices  in  New  York ;  professors  and  teachers  in  the  great  universities 
there,  several  from  the  Brigham  Young  University,  others  from  our 
state  university.  In  nothing  are  our  mountain  boys  more  con- 
spicuous there  than  in  their  success  and  prominence  as  engineers, 
especially  electrical  engineers.  I  am  more  than  pleased  to  say  that  you 
can  find  our  boys  and  girls  comfortably  and  favorably  located  in 
practically  all  the  great  business  institutions  such  as,  banking,  mer- 
chandising, real  estate,  and  other  commendable  activities;  they  are 
accountants,  artists,  actors,  singers  and  music  teachers. 

There  is  a  great  change  of  sentiment  coming  over  the  world,  and 
while  we  do  not  baptize  many  we  are  making  friends  and  arousing 
interest  in  our  people  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Last  Sunday 
there  was  doubtless  read  in  the  Unitarian  church  in  Reading,  Pennsyl- 
vania,, by  one  of  our  humble  elders,  the  address  that  President  Grant 
read  here.  It  is  the  second  or  third  opportunity  that  we  have  had  ill 
leading  cities  in  the  mission,  in  Unitarian  churches,  which  are  especially 
broad  and  liberal.  We  have  one  preacher  on  Long  Island,  who  has  had 
a  congregation  there  for  years,  who  is  preaching  every  Sabbath  the 
Gospel  as  we  understand  it,  and  his  people  generally  do  not  know  it; 
but  he  knows  it,  and  believes  it,  and  says  he  is  going  to  be  baptized. 

I  once  more  urge  upon  the  fathers,  mothers,  and  bishops  throughout 
the  Church  the. importance  of  sending  us  the  names  of  our  people  who 
have  left  the  organized  branches  of  the  Church  in  the  west,  in  order 
that  we  may  interest  them  in  the  work.  We  believe  that  there  are 
hundreds  of  them  being  lost  from  lack  of  contact  with  the  Church. 
We  are  finding  some  constantly  who  seem  to  have  been  practically  lost 
and  forgotten,  and  leaving  the  Church  simply  through  lack  of  contact 
with  it.  They  should  formally  become  members  of  the  branches  of  the 
Church  there,  just  the  same  as  when  they  move  from  one  ward  to 
another  here  at  home,  then  we  could  find  them  and  look  after  them. 

A  notable  instance.  I  had  to  go  to  Florida  recently  to  find  a  young- 
man.   I  met  his  parents  there.  They  gave  me  his  address  and  expressed 


ELDER   JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


121 


the  fear  that  he  was  drifting  away  from  the  Church.  When  I  returned, 
I  invited  him  to  our  home,  and  to  my  astonishment  he  said  he  had 
been  in  the  city  for  over  a  year  and  did  not  know  where  our  place  of 
worship  was  or  our  headquarters,  or  that  there  was  such  there.  Before 
he  left  he  promised  that  he  would  write  his  mother  and  say  that  he 
was  going  to  attend  church.  When  I  called  his  attention  to  what 
he  said  as  he  left  us,  he  replied,  "I  am  not  only  going  to  so  write  her, 
but  I  am  going  to  be  a  regular  attendant  at  church."  We  had  no 
means  of  reaching  that  young  man  prior  to  meeting  his  mother.  The 
church  officers,  diligent  as  they  are,  knew  nothing  of  him.  We  have 
many  such  cases. 

There  is  another  thing  which  has  deeply  impressed  me.  Never 
before  has  there  been  such  an  interest  taken  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
as  there  is  now.  Think  of  what  President  Pond  says  is  going  on  in  his 
mission.  While  he  is  leading  in  the  sale  and  distribution  of  copies  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  same  condition  exists  more  or  less  throughout 
all  the  missions.  President  Bennion  says  that  they  are  sending  out 
annually  from  the  Zion's  printing  office,  and  actually  selling,  something 
like  fifty  thousand  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  these  United 
States  alone.  Fifty  thousand  sold  by  this  one  agency,  and  in  addition 
to  those  thus  sold,  there  are  many  more  such  books  lent  and  placed 
with  readers. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  has  been  a  subject  of  deep  interest  to  me 
from  my  youth.  I  was  intensely  interested  in  the  realities  of  angels 
appearing  to  men  on  earth,  and  the  marvelous  things  revealed  to  Joseph 
Smith  in  connection  with  the  introduction  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to 
the  world.  I  shall  never  forget  my  experience  early  in  July,  1885,  as 
I  was  returning  home  from  the  University  of  Michigan  where  I 
graduated  in  1885.  I  went  directly  to  Richmond,  Missouri,  for  the 
sole  purpose  of  meeting  the  then  remaining  living  witness  to  the  divinity 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  David  Whitmer.  I  inquired  of  the  bus  driver, 
the  hotel  clerk,  and  others,  as  far  as  possible,  as  to  the  character  and 
reputation  of  David  Whitmer.  All  said  he  was  a  fine  old  man,  an 
excellent  citizen,  and  was  highly  respected  in  the  community.  I 
introduced  myself  by  presenting  him  with  a  book  that  I  thought  would 
please  him,  and  said  to  him  that  I  had  just  graduated  from  college. 
He  was  then  in  the  eighties,  with  his  hair  and  beard  white,  but  in  fair 
health.  It  was  about  three  years  before  his  death.  I  said  to  him :  "1 
was  born  and  reared  in  the  Church  and  I  do  pray  of  you  to  let  me 
know  if  there  is  any  possibility  of  your  having  been  deceived.  I  am 
just  commencing  life  as  you  are  preparing  to  lay  it  down,  and  I  beg  of 
you  to  tell  me  if  there  is  anything  connected  with  the  testimony  which 
you  have  borne  to  the  world  that  could  possibly  have  been  deceptive  or 
misunderstood."  I  further  said,  in  an  earnest  youthful  appeal,  that  I 
did  not  want  to  go  through  life  believing  a  falsehood,  that  it  was  in 
his  power  to  make  known  the  truth  to  me.  He  described  to  me  the 
details  of  the  occasion,  of  the  angel  presenting  the  plates  from  which 
the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated.  The  scene  was  in  the  woods, 
with  nothing  between  the  angel  and  himself  except  a  log  that  had; 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fallen  and  was  lying  between  them.  He  declared  that  he  saw  the 
angel  who  had  with  him  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon 
was  translated,  and  that  in  the  presence  of  the  angel  he  did  hear  the 
angel  declare  that  they  had  been  translated  correctly.  While  I  am 
speaking  from  memory,  the  foregoing  most  essential  facts  to  me  and 
which  were  the  sole  object  of  my  visit,  were  so  indelibly  impressed  upon 
my  mind,  that  they  are  perfectly  clear  and  unmistakable.  I  asked  him 
many  questions  concerning  his  experiences  with  the  origin  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  why  he  left  the  Church,  all  of  which  he  endeavored 
to  answer  frankly.  We  talked  for  a  considerable  time.  His.  mind 
seemed  clear  and  his  mentality  above  rather  than  below  the  average. 
He  said  he  had  never  left  the  Church,  that  they  had  maintained  a 
branch  of  the  Church  in  Richmond,  and  that  he  had  always  been  active 
in  it ;  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  the  revelations 
he  received  up  to  the  year  1835  were  from  God,  but  that  he  accepted 
none  of  them  subsequent  to  that  time.  He  appeared  to  have  become 
embittered  against  Sidney  Rigdon  especially,  and  I  fancied  turned 
against  the  Prophet  because  of  his  placing  Rigdon  ahead  of  those  who 
had  stood  by  the  Prophet  in  his  early  work. 

He  said  with  seeming  pride  and  much  interest,  that  he  had  the 
first  copy  of  the  manuscript  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
printed,  in  his  humble  home.  And  it  was  a  humble  home.  That  when 
the  great  cyclone  struck  Missouri,  and  houses  were  blown  about  and 
destroyed,  every  room  in  his  house  was  destroyed  except  that  in  which 
the  manuscript  was  kept.  He  seemed  to  feel  that  it  was  divinely  pro- 
tected. President  Joseph  F.  Smith  advised  me  that  the  copy  of  the 
manuscript  was  not  the  original,  but  one  of  the  three  originals.  His 
sincerity  was  plainly  shown  when  I  asked  him  if  he  would  sell  the 
manuscript  and  place  a  price  upon  it.    He  replied  that  he  would  not. 

There  is  much  that  might  be  said  on  the  subject  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Even  Colonel  Lindbergh  is  arousing  interest  in  the  subject 
as  probably  no  one  else  is  today,  through  the  pictures  which  he  has  been 
able  to  take  from  the  air  while  flying  over  Central  America,  Mexico 
and  the  southwestern  part  of  the  United  States.  Front  pages  of  the 
leading  papers  in  the  east  are  publishing  those  pictures,  with  interesting 
and  instructive  articles  written  by  archaeologists.  They  are  attempting 
to  unravel  the  history  of  those  lost  cities.   But  I  must  close. 

The  story  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  our  missionaries  are 
carrying  to  the  people  of  the  world  and  of  which  they  bear  testimony  as 
to  its  divinity,  is  accompanied  with  that  clear  and  unfailing  guide 
like  unto  that  which  the  Savior  presented,  when  he  said,  "If  any  man 
will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God, 
or  whether  I  speak  of  myself."  In  connection  therewith  our  message, 
as  missionaries,  to  the  world  is,  for  them  to  read  and  follow  the  advice 
found  in  the  last  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  which  the  Prophet 
Moroni,  referring  to  the  contents  of  the  book,  gives  the  sure  and  un- 
mistakable test,  similar  to  that  which  the  Savior  gave,  when  he  said : 

"And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would 
ask  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not 


ELDER   JAMES   H.  MOYLE 


123 


true ;  and  if  ye  shall  askj  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent,  having  faith  in 
Christ,  he  will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
"And  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things.'' 

That  is  the  test  that  we  are  submitting  to  the  world,  and  that 
leaven  is  affecting-  the  world ;  it  is  influencing  the  world.  What  greater 
and  surer  test  could  there  be  ? 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  appreciate  the  blessings  that  we  enjoy 
in  the  Gospel  of  our  Redeemer,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  hope  that  I  shall  be  able  to  make  my  remarks  short  enough  so 
as  to  make  up  for  part  of  the  time  that  President  Moyle  has  occupied, 
so  that  the  rest  may  have  time  for  theirs. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  opportunity  that  I  have 
of  meeting  with  you  upon  this  occasion.  I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in 
the  various  sessions  of  this  conference.  I  have  been  very  much 
impressed  today  with  the  rendition  of  the  music,  as  given  by  this 
wonderful  gathering  of  young  men  and  young  ladies,  the  rising  youth 
of  Zion,  young  men  and  young  women  who  sometime  perhaps  may 
be  called  into  the  world  to  spread  the  Gospel  of  light  among  the  nations 
of  the  earth. 

Just  a  short  time  ago  it  so  happened  that  I  came  in  contact  with 
a  very  prominent  lady  who  was  connected  with  one  of  the  other- 
denominations,  and  in  the  course  of  our  remarks  I  asked,  her  how  she 
found  the  spirituality  of  the  young  people  in  her  church,  and  without 
hesitancy  whatever  she  said :  "There  is  no  spirituality  among  the  young- 
people  today,  not  in  the  least.  They  are  seeking  after  the  pleasures  of 
life  and  are  not  looking  after  spiritual  development."  And  I  thought 
how  much  different  is  that  from  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Here  we  see 
it  exemplified  today,  these  young  men,  young  ladies,  coming  here  filled 
with  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  and  singing  the  songs  of  Zion  and  bringing 
forth  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  in  our  day. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  that  is  being  performed  in  the  Bast  Central 
States  Mission.  I  bring  to  you  fathers  and  mothers  the  greetings 
of  your  sons  and  your  daughters,  yes  and  to  the  wives  the  greetings 
of  your  husbands,  who  are  laboring  in  that  mission.  All  are  enjoying 
good  health  with  but  few  exceptions,  and  the  work  of  the  Lord  is 
progressing. 

Just  a  few  days  ago  I  happened  to  pick  up  a  newspaper  and  in 
reading  through  it  I  found  the  comment  of  a  very  prompinent  writer ; 
writing  upon  religious  matters  and  referring  to  several  denominations 
he  made  this  remark : 

"It  may  so  be  in  the  course  of  time  that  the  Mormon  people  will  repudiate 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  then  they  will  become 
one  with  us." 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  thought  how  much  different  that  is  from  the  way  we  look  at 
things.  And  then  just  a  few  days  following  that  one  of  our  saints  hap- 
pened to  be  listening  over  the  radio  to  the  world's  book  man  who 
speaks  every  afternoon  with  the  exception  of  Sunday,  on  some  subject 
regarding  which  a  question  has  been  asked.  He  called  me  over  the 
phone  and  I  stepped  into  the  room  where  my  wife  and  I  have  a  radio, 
and  .there  I  heard  Mr.  R.  C.  Preble,  who  had  been  asked  this  question: 
"What  publication  do  we  have  that  is  the  most  reliable,  or  rather  that 
gives  us  the  most  reliable  information  regarding  the  origin  of  the 
American  Indian?"  And  he  gave  as  his  answer,  without  any  hesitancy 
whatever,  "The  Book  of  Mormon."  Then  he  proceeded  to  recite  and 
tell  how  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  delivered  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  by  an  angel  from  on  high,  and  that  the  record  was  taken  from 
the  Mormon  Hill,  as  he  put  it,  and  that  it  was  translated  through 
the  instrumentality  of  a  pair  of  spectacles  which  were  hidden  in  the 
box  with  the  record.  And  then  he  went  on  to  tell  how  it  was  translated 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  others  who  wrote  as  he  translated  it 
by  looking  through  this  pair  of  spectacles.  Then  he  went  on  to  tell 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  contains  the  history  of  a  people  who 
left  Jerusalem  some  six  hundred  years  before  Christ's  advent  into  the 
world,  and  that  they  landed  upon  the  west  coast  of  South  America, 
where  they  settled,  built  wonderful  cities,  and  eventually  came  on  into 
this  land  and  scattered  over  the  various  parts  of  North  America.  He 
then  stated  that  in  the  extent  of  time  those  who  were  the  most  indus- 
trious in  building  cities  were  destroyed  by  the  people  called  the 
Lamanites,  now  known  as  the  American  Indians ;  the  records  which 
this  destroyed  people  had  kept  were  the  ones  that  were  hidden  in  the 
Hill  Cumorah  and  were  received  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  from 
the  hands  of  an  angel.  He  gave  such  a  fair  account  of  it,  and  as  this 
was  the  fourth  question  that  I  had  heard  him  speak  upon  in  regard  to 
our  people,  in  answer  to  questions  which  had  been  asked,  I  thought  that 
I  would  take  occasion  to  write  to  him,  which  I  did.  I  dictated  a  letter, 
saying  "If  at  any  time  you  happen  to  be  speaking  upon  any  allied 
subjects  pertaining  to  our  people  I  will  appreciate  it  very  much  if  you 
will  make  the  announcement  that  if  there  are  any  libraries  in  that 
part  of  the  country  that  do  not  have  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
I  shall  be  pleased  to  furnish  them  free  of  cost."  I  said  further,  "If  you 
have  not  a  copy  of  the  book  I  shall  be  very  pleased  to  send  you  one 
with  my  compliments,  and  if  at  any  time  when  you  are  speaking  on 
any  subject  pertaining  to  our  people  and  you  haven't  first-hand  infor- 
mation I  shall  be  pleased  to  furnish  you  it."  It  was  about  ten  days 
before  the  letter  reached  him.  I  addressed  it  to  W.  H.  A.  S.,  the 
station  at  Louisville,  because  he  was  talking  over  the  national  "hookup" 
and  I  didn't  know  just  where  he  was;  but  it  finally  found  him  in  the 
city  of  Chicago,  and  he  immediately  answered  my  letter  and  said  that 
he  would  be  very  pleased  indeed  to  receive  a  copy  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  I  sent  him  one  with  my  compliments,  and  also  enclosed  with 
it  several  other  pamphlets  which  contain  some  of  the  teachings  of  our 
people.    I  received  another  nice  letter  from  him  stating  that  he  had 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


125 


received  the  literature,  and  that  his  secretary  had  already  begun  reading 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  he  was  going  to  do  so  as  the  opportunity 
presented  itself.  And  he  continued :  "I  want  to  thank  you  for  the  little 
pamphlets  which  you  enclosed,  because  of  the  information  that  they 
contain." 

I  thought  how  much  different  are  conditions  today  from  what  they 
have  been  in  times  past.  Conditions  in  the  world  are  changing.  I  find 
that  we  have  friends  on  every  hand.  We  have  opportunities  of  visiting, 
every  night  that  we  have  open,  holding  cottege  meetings,  street  meet- 
ings and  private  meetings  with  the  people  and  conversing  with  them. 

I  pray  that  God  may  bless  us  that  we  may  go  on  with  the  work, 
and  that  you  at  home  may  assist  us  by  sending  your  sons  and  daughters, 
which  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  chorus  sang  "The  glory  of  the  Lord  shall  be  revealed"  (Doc. 
and  Cov.,  Sec.  6:7.)    Music  composed  by  George  H.  Durham. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Spirit  that  has 
actuated  those  who  have  spoken  during  this  Centennial  Conference  may 
be  given  to  me,  that  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  that  will  strengthen 
us  in  our  faith  and  in  our  testimonies  of  the  Gospel,  that  we  hold  so 
dear. 

The  Psalmist  said,  "Except  the  Lord  build  the  house,  they  labor 
in  vain  that  build  it;  except  the  Lord  keep  the  city,  the  watchmen 
waketh  but  in  vain. 

"It  is  vain  for  you  to  rise  up  early,  to  sit  up  late,  to  eat  the 
bread  of  sorrows." 

In  connection  with  his  words  my  mind  has  reverted  to  the  counsel 
of  Gamaliel,  that  wise  Jew,  who  asked  the  Jews  to  desist  in  their 
persecution  of  the  apostles,  counseling  that  if  their  work  was  not  of 
God  it  would  come  to  naught,  even  as  had  the  work  of  many  that  he 
mentioned  who  had  raised  up  and  taught  strange  doctrines,  and  who 
had  gained  considerable  following,  but,  when  they  had  passed  on,  their 
work  had  ceased  with  them.  I  recall  also  the  words  of  the  Savior  to  his 
disciples,  for  he  reproved  the  Jews  in  his  day,  citing  from  Isaiah, 
saying  unto  them : 

"Ye  hypocrites,  well  did  Esaias  prophesy  of  you,  saying, 

"This  people  draweth  nigh  unto  me  with  their  mouth,  and  honoreth  me 

with  their  lips ;  but  their  heart  is  far  from  me. 

"But  in  vain  they  do  worship  me,  teaching  for  doctrines  the  commandments 

of  men. 

"And  he  called  the  multitude,  and  said  unto  them,  Hear,  and  understand : 
"Not  that  which  goeth  into  the  mouth  defileth  a  man ;  but  that  which 

cometh  out  of  the  mouth,  this  defileth  a  man. 

"Then  came  his  disciples,  and  said  unto  him,  Knowest  thou  that  the  Pharisees 

were  offended,  after  they  heard  this  saying? 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

"But  he  answered  and  said,  Every  plant,  which  my  Heavenly  Father  hatn 
not  planted,  shall  be  rooted  up." 

I  have  been  reflecting  upon  these  scriptures,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  in  connection  with  the  history  of  the  Church  during  the  past 
hundred  years.  It  has  grown  marvelously,  notwithstanding  the  per- 
secutions that  have  been  hurled  against  it,  from  even  before  the  Church 
was  organized,  for  Joseph  Smith,  when  he  announced  to  the  world 
that  he  had  seen  a  vision,  was  made  the  subject  of  the  most  bitter 
persecution,  and  it  never  ceased  to  follow  him  until  he  sealed  his 
testimony  with  his  blood.  The  Church  itself,  from  then  for  many 
years,  was  submitted  to  persecution.  It  has  been  submitted  to  ridicule. 
The  wise  and  the  learned  of  the  world,  from  the  standpoint  of  the 
wisdom  and  the  learning  of  men,  have  ridiculed  this  work,  and  have 
really  predicted  and  prophesied  its  downfall ;  and  they  seem  to  be  very 
much  alarmed  because  their  predictions  have  not  come  true.  But  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  they  have  not  reckoned  with  the  vitality  of  this 
work;  they  have  not  reckoned  with  the  fact  that  the  Gospel  restored 
and  the  Church  organized  means  more  than  the  mere  setting  up  of  a 
religious  system,  officered  by  mortal  man.  They  have  not  taken  into 
consideration  the  fact  that  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
means  the  restoration  to  earth  again  of  the  power  of  God  to  speak, 
and  to  act  in  his  name,  the  restoration  of  the  holy  priesthood.  If  you 
will  stop  to  reflect  for  a  minute,  it  will  occur  to  you,  perhaps,  strange, 
as  it  has  to  men  that  I  have  spoken  to  in  the  world, 'that  Joseph  Smith, 
after  he  received  the  wonderful  vision  in  which  the  Father  and  the  Son 
appeared  to  him,  did  not  immediately  set  up  a  religious  system;  he 
waited ;  and  why  ?  Because  he  sensed  and  realized  that  even  with  that 
great  vision,  which  restored  to  the  world  that  which  the  world  was 
most  in  need  of  at  that  time,  a  knowledge  of  God  as  he  is,  still  he  was 
not  empowered  to  speak  in  the  name  of  God,  to  'minister  in  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  with  authority  to  organize  the  Church  and 
place  in  it  those  officers  that  'Christ  placed  in  it,  namely  apostles,  pro- 
phets, etc.  Joseph  Smith  did  not  know  when  that  would  come  when 
he  received  that  vision.  It  was  not  until  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord 
when  he  received  the  priesthood,  first  the  Aaronic  at  the  hands  of  John 
the  Baptist,  that  he  performed  any  ordinances  for  the  salvation  of  the 
souls  of  men ;  and  not  until  he  had  received  the  keys  of  the  kingdom, 
or  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and  the  holy  apostleship,  did  he  pre- 
sume in  any  way  to  organize  the  Church  and  to  set  in  operation  the 
Gospel  as  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  among  the  children  of  men, 
here  upon  the  earth. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  this  work  were  not  of  God  I  believe 
that  we  could  believe  still,  today,  that  it  would  come  to  naught.  But  I 
know,  by  the  manifestations  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  by  the  experiences 
that  I  have  had  in  ministering  as  a  humble  missionary  in  the  world, 
that  the  priesthood,  restored  to  earth  in  this  dispensation,  is  a  reality. 
It  is  the  power  of  God  to  act  in  his  name,  and  its  works ;  it  operates. 

I  have  been  laboring,  too,  as  a  missionary,  and  I  have  been  laboring 


ELDER   REY  L.  PRATT 


127 


among  Book  of  Mormon  people.  There  is  no  book  in  the  world  that 
has  so  appealed  to  me,  and  that  so  absorbs  me,  in  its  contemplation, 
as  the  Book  of  Mormon.  And  my  heart  has  gone  out  through  these 
long  years,  nearly  a  quarter  of  a  century  that  I  have  labored  without 
ceasing,  in  the  interest  of  the  people  who  are  the  descendants  of  the 
prophets  who  wrote  that  book. 

In  thinking  over  the  history  of  the  Church  I  recall  that  in  the 
year  of  its  organization  the  matter  of  preaching  the  Gospel  to  the 
Lamanite  people  occupied,  with  great  concern,  the  minds  of  the  leaders 
of  the  Church.  In  September,  1830,  a  revelation  was  given  in  which 
Oliver  Cowdery  was  given  to  know  that  he  was  to  carry  the  Gospel 
to  the  Lamanites.  In  October  of  the  same  year  there  were  included  in 
that  mission,  by  direct  revelation,  Parley  P.  Pratt  and  Ziba  Peterson 
and  others  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  the  Lamanites.  There  was  a 
beginning.  It  has  been  preached  at  different  times  from  then  down 
until  now,  and  in  the  specific  work  that  I  am  engaged  in,  namely  the 
Mexican  Mission,  for  fifty-one  years  has  the  Gospel  been  preached 
in  the  Spanish  language  to  the  Mexican  people.  In  the  year  1879  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord,  Moses  Thatcher,  climbed  nearly  to  the  summit  of 
the  great  volcano  Popocatepetl  that  overlooks  all  of  the  country,  nearly 
from  sea  to  sea,  in  the  interior  of  Mexico,  at  an  elevation  of  perhaps 
eighteen  thousand  feet.  There,  stretching  out  his  hands,  he  dedicated 
the  land  of  Mexico  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  and  to  the  redemption 
of  the  Lamanites,  in  that  land. 

But  no  one  who  has  hot  followed  the  history  of  it  closely,  knows 
the  hectic  time  we  have  had  in  preaching  the-  Gospel  in  Mexico.  Dis- 
couragements have  been  piled  upon  discouragements,  until  I  have 
wondered  sometimes — I  have  never  doubted,  but  I  have  wondered 
just  when  we  would  see  the  fruits  of  our  labors,  and  just  when  I 
might  feel  secure,  and  sure  that  the  Gospel  was  planted  in  that  land  to 
stay  there.  We  have  had  revolutions  nearly  all  of  that  time,  and  since- 
1910  we  have  had  revolutions  continuously.  Our  missionaries  have 
had  to  leave  the  republic,  on  one  pretext  and  on  another,  and  our  saints 
have  been  left,  many  times  for  years  at  a  time,  to  struggle  as  best  they 
could,  only  connected  with  the  body  of  the  Church  by  correspondence 
which  I  have  been  able  to  carry  on  with  their  leaders  down  there,  with 
their  branch  presidents  particularly. 

Five  years  ago,  nearly,  now,  because  of  controversy  between  church 
and  state  in  that  land,  all  of  our  missionaries  were  obliged  to  leave 
the  country  and  the  saints  were  again  left  to  shift  for  themselves  as 
best  they  could.  We  prayed  for  the  time  that  we  might  return,  and 
they  prayed  for  the  return  of  the  missionaries.  In  every  letter  that  has 
been  exchanged  they  have  plead  that  we  might  come  back  to  them,  and 
they  have  asked  the  Lord  that  the  missionaries  might  be  returned  to 
them. 

I  have  had  some  misgivings  as  to  what  their  condition  would  be, 
during  all  this  long  time  that  the  missionaries  were  away  from  them. 
The  Lord  opened  the  way  in  February,  and  alone  I  went  into  the 
interior  of  Mexico.    I  traveled  in  that  country  for  six  weeks,  in  com- 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pany  with  the  branch  presidents  and  our  local  district  president  that  we 
have  named  in  the  interior  of  the  country.  I  visited  in  their  branches, 
merely  as  a  member,  and,  because  of  the  restrictions,  not  permitted 
to  call  the  people  together  as  an  officer  of  the  Church,  nor  to  speak 
to  them  as  an  officer  of  the  Church  ;  but  as  a  member  and  in  conversation 
with  them  I  visited  them  all.  And  I  am  happy  with  what  1  found  in  that 
land.  We  carried  the  Gospel  to  them.  We  not  only  taught  them  faith 
in  God,  faith  in  the  Gospel  as  restored,  faith  in  the  principles  of  re- 
pentance and  baptism  and  in  the  Church  organization,  but,  brethren  and 
sisters,  we  laid  our  hands  on  their  heads,  during  the  years  that  are 
past,  and  we  ordained  them  to  the  priesthood.  Deacons,  teachers, 
priests,  and  elders  have  been  ordained  in  that  land.  Branches  have 
been  organized.  A  district  has  been  organized,  and  men  from  among 
the  local  priesthood  there  have  been  called  to  officiate  and  to  conduct 
the  affairs  of  that  mission  as  best  they  could.  I  confess  that  through 
the  years  that  have  passed  I  have  felt  rather  as  I  think  Alma  must 
have  felt  when  he  embarked  on  his  great  missionary  journey.  He 
wished  that  he  might  be  endowed  with  the  voice  of  an  angel,  that  he 
might  preach  to  the  people  with  the  voice  of  a  trumpet,  that  all  men 
might  hear  and  be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  I  have  felt 
many  times  that  I  should  like  to  be  able  to  do  more  than  it  seemed 
that  I  was  physically  able  to  do.  I  have  felt  that  the  restrictions  that 
kept  me  back  were  galling,  and  I  wished  to  get  into  the  land,  for  I  feared 
for  the  stability  of  the  people  of  the  land  that  had  joined  the  Church. 

I  would  like  to  read  to  you,  however,  the  word  of  the  Lord  that 
came  to  us,  because  it  comes  to  me  as  a  revelation,  and  it  made  me 
more  contented  to  do  just  as  the  Lord  seems  to  make  it  possible  for 
me  to  do  in  my  ministry.   Alma  said : 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I  might 
go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the  earth,  and 
cry  repentance  unto  every  people ! 

"Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder, 
repentance  and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come  unto 
our  God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of  the  earth. 

"But  behold,  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin  in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be  content 
with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  allotted  unto  me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  desires,  the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God, 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire,  whether  it  be 
unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men  according  to 
their  wills,  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men;  he  that 
knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blameless ;  but  he  that  knoweth  good  and  evil, 
to  him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires,  whether  he  desireth  good  or  evil, 
life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience. 

"Now,  seeing  that  I  know  these  things,  why  should  I  desire  more  than  to 
perform  the  work  to  which  I  have  been  called? 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  were  an  angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all 
the  ends  of  the  earth? 

"For  behold" — and  mark  these  words — "the  Lord  doth  grant  unto  all  nations, 
of  their  own  nation  and  tongue,  to  teach  his  word,  yea,  in  wisdom,  all  that  he 
seeth  fit  that  they  should  have ;  therefore  we  see  that  the  Lord  doth  counsel 
in  wisdom,  according  to  that  which  is  just  and  true." 


ELDER   REY  L.  PRATT 


129 


I  found  that  in  the  absence  of  your  sons  from  the  interior  of 
Mexico,  the  Lord  had  magnified  his  servants  who  hold  the  holy  priest- 
hood in  that  land,  and  the  work  has  not  merely  maintained  itself  but 
it  has  grown.  Those  people,  confronted  with  the  difficulty  of  not  being 
able  to  hold  their  services  in  rented  halls,  because  the  law  of  the  land 
forbids,  had  gone  to  with  their  might,  and  although  they  have  built  but 
humble  houses,  yet  without  asking  a  cent  from  the  Church,  they  have 
built  in  the  time  that  I  speak  of,  five  magnificent  little  meetinghouses 
in  which  they  meet.  In  one  place  where  our  people  were  forbidden  to 
meet,  two  years  ago,  in  a  little  branch  where  only  ten  resided,  they 
took  off  their  coats,  made  the  adobes  and  built  the  house.  I  was  in 
their  place  the  other  day.  Since  they  built  it  they  have  baptized  enough 
people  so  that  we  had  eighty-five  people  present  in  that  building.  Four 
weeks  ago  Sunday,  in  the  town  of  San  Marcos — Brother  Ivins  will  re- 
member that  his  early  missionary  experiences  took  him  there  a  few  years 
ago — they  have  builded  a  splendid  house  that  will  seat  almost  four 
hundred  people,  and  we  had  at  the  evening  session  there  nearly  two 
hundred  and  fifty  people  gathered  together.  Our  district  president  and 
his  counselor  gave  addresses  that  I  should  he  proud  to  have  all  the 
world  hear,  in  defense  of  our  position  and  the  position  of  those  people 
in  that  land. 

My  time  is  very  limited,  but- 1  wish  to  recount  some  of  the  con- 
ditions with  which  they  are  confronted.  There  is  a  great  upheaval  in 
Mexico  along  all  lines.  There  is  an  emancipation  of  the  people.  They 
are  struggling.  They  are  coming  up  from  the  dregs  of  degradation 
and  slavery,  and  there  is  a  great  nationalistic  spirit  permeating  the 
whole  people.  It  is  finding  its  way  into  the  realms  of  the  churches. 
There  has  been  a  great  schism  in  the  Catholic  church.  There  has  arisen 
a  national  Mexican  Catholic  church  in  opposition  to  the  Roman 
Catholic  church.  The  Mexicans  are  asking,  all  over  the  country: 
"Why  should  we  look  to  Rome  for  leadership  in  the  Catholic  church? 
Why  should  we  look  to  England  for  leadership  in  the  Episcopal  church  ? 
Why  should  we  look  to  the  United  States  for  leadership  in  all  of  the 
Protestant  denominations?"  They  have  asked  our  people:  "Why 
should  you  look  to  the  United  States  for  leadership  in  the  'Mormon' 
Church  ?"  and  our  people  have  been  invited,  all  over  the  country,  there, 
to  unite  themselves  with  other  factions  of  other  churches  to  build  up 
a  Protestant  Mexican  church  with  leadership  in  their  own  land. 

Four  weeks  ago  Sunday,  there  stood  before  two  hundred  and 
fifty  of  the  Mexican  people  there,  most  of  them  members,  but  many 
of  them  not  members,  a  young  Aztec.  When  I  first  knew  him  he  wore 
the  costume  of  the  country.  He  wore  white  factory  pants,  with  sandals 
on  his  feet,  and  a  white  blouse.  He  could  scarcely  speak,  intelligibly, 
the  Spanish  language.  He  is  well  educated  now.  He  joined  the  Church 
some  twenty-two  years  ago.  He  dresses  well ;  he  knows  the  scriptures 
from  cover  to  cover.  He  stood  before  the  people  and  for  an  hour  spoke 
to  them  of  the  principle  of  authority  and  brought  up  this  proposition 
of  the  people  and  the  suggestion  that  our  people  join  with  them  in 
making  a  national  church.    Now  he  said,  "Brethren,  we  must  be  con- 


130 


GENERAL.  CONFERENCE 


sistent.  The  Lord  does  not  know  national  limits  in  regard  to  his 
Church,  and  it  has  been  his  good  pleasure  to  reveal  his  will  to  a  prophet, 
who  is  as  much  our  prophet  as  he  is  the  prophet  of  the  people  among 
whom  he  was  raised  up,  and  that  prophet  is  Joseph  Smith.  We  hold 
the  priesthood  and  we  have  seen  its  power,  we  have  seen  its  mani- 
festations, we  have  seen  our  sick  healed,  we  have  been  blessed  by  it  and 
held  together ;  and  all  we  have  we  know  we  owe  to  the  restoration 
of  that  power  that  came  to  Joseph  Smith.  That  is  the  power  of  God 
that  will  guide  his  Church,  and  we  cannot  make  it  any  more  Mexican 
than  it  is." 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  was  humbled,  I  was  humiliated,  but 
I  was  thankful,  and  I  felt  like  saying :  Maybe  thousands  have  not  come 
in,  maybe  nations  have  not  been  born  in  a  day,  but  I  thank  God  that 
the  roots  of  the  everlasting  Gospel  have  struck  deep  in  the  soil  of  the 
hearts  of  the  Lamanite  people  of  Mexico.  I  feel  sure  that,  come 
what  may,  there  is  no  power  in  heaven  or  in  hell  that  can  uproot  that 
power  implanted  in  that  land,  and  it  will  go  on,  just  as  that  same  power 
will  go  on  with  you. 

I  feel  just  as  sure  as  I  feel  that  I  live  that  this  Gospel  will  thrive. 
It  doesn't  worry  me  what  men  think  about  whether  we  are  going  to 
succeed  or  not.  I  know  that  there  are  people  in  the  Church  that 
shouldn't  be  in  the  Church.  I  have  met  a  lot  of  people  that  to  me 
seem  to  be  just  like  the  foam  that  the  waves  beat  up  upon  the  shore 
and  that  then  melts  away.  There  is  also  a  stratum  that  is  in  some  parts 
and  factions  of  the  Church  that  is  like  the  dregs  of  poison.  But  the 
vast  body  of  the  Church  is  true  and  is  clear  and  is  pure,  and  this 
work  will  go  on  to  ultimate  success  and  will  remain.  It  is,  and  always 
will  be,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

'  This  is  my  faith,  this  is  my  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  humbly  to  you 
today  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

Very  humbly,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  yet  in  deep  gratitude 
and  pride  I  bring  you  greetings  from  the  missionaries  and  saints  of 
the  North  Central  States  Mission.  I  should  like  my  testimony  to  be 
to  the  youth  of  Zion,  these  young  people  who  have  been  singing  for  us, 
many  of  whom  I  have  the  honor  to  know,  and  of  whose  acquaintance 
and  friendship  I  am  very  proud ;  and  to  the  other  thousands,  perhaps 
tens  of  thousands  of  young  people  of  the  surrounding  territory  here 
who  may  be  listening  in  to  these  services  today.  I  recently  calculated 
that  in  our  mission,  which  is  large  geographically  but  small  numerically, 
there  are  five  million  five  hundred  eighty-seven  thousand  and  some 
hundreds  of  population,  only  twenty-five  hundred  and  eighty-seven  of 
whom  are  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
That  will  figure  out  to  about  seventy-five  thousand  for  each  of  our 
seventy-five  missionaries.    I  think  nothing  more  need  be  said  in 


ELDER  ARTHUR  WELLING 


131 


emphasis  of  the  plea  that  the  other  brethren  have  made  for  more 
missionaries.  That  is  three-quarters  as  many  as  have  been  added  to 
the  Church  per  man  for  each  of  the  six  original  organizers  of  the 
Church  in  the  last  hundred  years. 

The  young  men  and  women  who  serve  in  the  North  Central  States 
are  full  of  faith  and  integrity.  They  love  their  work,  they  love  the 
Lord,  and  I  am  certain  as  I  live  that  the  Lord  loves  them.  "Oh  ye 
who  embark  in  the  service  of  God,"  they  would  say  if  they  had  a  chance, 
to  all  Israel,  "see  that  ye  serve  him  with  all  your  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  be  found  blameless  before  God  at  the  last  day." 

In  the  interest  of  time  I  should  like  the  remainder  of  what  I  say  to 
take  the  form  of  a  testimony  written  for  a  friend  long  ago,  which 
I  believe  will  express,  as  well  as  anything  else,  what  I  would  like  to 
say  here  today. 

A  TESTIMONY 

"Except  the  Lord  build  the  house,  they  labor  in  vain  who  build 
it."  (Ps.  127:1.)  Obviously,  what  the  Lord  builds,  they  labor  in  vain 
who  oppose. 

Mormonism  is  a  house  builded  of  the  Lord.  It  is  a  going  concern. 
It  works.  Nothing  stops  it.  Its  devotees  are  undaunted  by  disaster. 
Those  who  accept  it  are  made  better  and  happier.  Those  who  oppose 
it,  do  so  in  vain. 

Consider  the  marvelous  revelation  of  religious  truth  disclosed  in 
the  boy  prophet's  first  great  vision — its  staggering  significance  to  the 
world.  Surely,  except  the  Lord  continue  to  build  on  that  foundation, 
they  labor  in  vain  who  attempt  it.    But  if  he  does,  who  shall  oppose? 

Later,  clouds  appear.  Twenty  thousand  empty-handed  refugees, 
their  homes  in  ruins,  their  prophet  slain,  unsympathetic  neighbors 
behind,  only  the  comparatively  hospitable  wilderness  before  them,  they 
turn  their  faces  the  more  resolutely  toward  God  and  the  boundless  West. 
What  happened?  Did  they  quit  and  die  as  was  hoped  by  some?  Did 
God  leave  them  to  build  alone  ?  For  answer,  in  the  midst  of  the  desert, 
a  thousand  miles  from  civilization's  late  frontier,  in  "The  country  that 
God  forgot,"  behold  an  empire  rise.  The  Lord  is  with  his  people, 
helping  to  build  his  house. 

Nor  is  material  prosperity  Mormonism's  chief  evidence  of  divine 
approval.  Far  more  important  and  conclusive  are  the  moral  and  spiritual 
values  it  portrays.  In  days  of  shifting  moral  standards,  "Companionate 
Marriage,"  and  easy  divorce,  think  of  the  stabilizing  effect  of  the 
doctrine  of  marriage  for  eternity,  and  of  the  virtue  and  chastity  with 
which  tens  of  thousands  of  Mormon  boys  as  well  as  girls  kneel  at 
marriage  altars,  in  the  temples  of  our  God.  Surely  here  is  evidence 
of  his  building.    It  works. 

For  keeping  men  always  at  their  best,  no  merely  human  agency 
approaches,  in  effectiveness,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day- 
Saints.   Those  who  accept  and  live  its  teachings'  are  better  and  happier. 

The  missionary  system  of  the  Church,  like  the  "quality  of  mercy," 
continues  to  "Bless  him  who  gives  and  him  who  receives"  its  message. 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


More  and  more  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  commanding  the  respect 
of  investigators  and  vindicating  its  own  divine  origin.  Opposition  to 
the  great  truths  for  which  it  stands,  has  been  and  will  continue  to  be 
in  vain. 

For  these  and  other  reasons,  I  am  proud  to  be  a  Mormon  mis- 
sionary. 

My  grandparents  on  my  mother's  side  knew  and  loved  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  My  grandfather,  Jonathan  H.  Holmes,  a  Mormon  Battalion 
man,  was  mustered  out  of  the  service  of  his  country,  on  the  Pacific 
coast,  in  time  to  join  his  family  and  friends  late  in  the  summer  of 
their  first  year  in  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake.  My  mother  was 
born  in  the  old  fort  on  Pioneer  Square,  in  1849. 

My  father,  Job  Welling,  was  a  handcart  pioneer  of  1856.  A 
venerable  patriarch  of  Alpine  stake,  hearing  my  father's  name,  once 
said  to  me:  "I  helped  your  father  bury  one  of  your  brothers  (by  a 
former  marriage)  on  the  plains  of  Iowa;"  adding  significantly,  "Be  as 
good  a  man  as  your  father."  This  challenge:  "Be  as  good  a  man  as 
your  father,"  I  like  to  pass  on  to  other  young  men  of  the  Church. 
Think  it  over. 

"Mormonism"  is  true.  It  is  a  nick-name  for  the  restored  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ. 

Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God. 
So  are  his  successors,  including  President  Heber  J.  Grant. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  presents  the  same 
organization,  the  same  Gospel  doctrines,  and  the  same  authority  to 
administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof,  as  characterized  the  primitive 
Church. 

It  is  God's  house.   He  is  building  it.   It  will  stand  forever. 
To  all  of  which  I  bear  humble  witness,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord, 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Selection  by  the  chorus,  "The  Lord  shall  be  revealed,"  from  "The 
Messiah,"  by  Handel. 

Closing  prayer  by  Elder  Mark  Austin. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  a.  m.,  Wednesday,  April  9th. 


FOURTH  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  10  o'clock  Wednesday  morning,  April 

9th. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Ogden  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Lester  Hinchcliff,  director. 

The  hymn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,"  was  sung  by  the  choir  and 
congregation. 

Elder  Frank  Y.  Taylor  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang  the  "hymn,  "If  you  could  hie  to  Kolob." 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

An  old  darkey  minister  was  about  to  address  a  congregation.  He 
chose  for  his  text:  "Bressed  am  dey  what  expeks  noffin,  for  dey 
shant  be  disappointed."  I  apply  this  to  myself,  for  I  certainly  did  not 
expect  to  be  called  on  to  address  this  congregation.  President  Grant 
has  been  so  kind  to  me  already,  in  permitting  me  to  read  my  Centennial 
poem  at  a  previous  session,  that  I  was  not  looking  for  any  additional 
honor  and  pleasure.  I  am  thankful  for  it,  however,  and  esteem  it  a 
precious  privilege  to  be  not  only  a  reader,  but  also  a  speaker  at  this 
great  conference — the  greatest  one  I  have  ever  known. 

AN  AGE  OF  WONDERS 

We  are  living  in  an  age  of  wonders.  Events  and  achievements 
that  would  have  been  deemed  miraculous  a  hundred  years  ago,  have 
become  to  us  almost  commonplace.  Had  we  lived  two  centuries  earlier, 
and  expressed  a  belief  that  men  would  fly  through  the  air  like  birds, 
or  dive  in  the  sea  like  fish,  it  would  have  provoked  skepticism,  if  not 
prejudice  ;  would  possibly  have  been  regarded  as  bordering  on  witchcraft 
or  a  disposition  to  encourage  it. 

ERRORS  OF  SUPERSTITION 

Two  or  three  hundred  years  ago,  in  certain  parts  of  New  England, 
notably  Massachusetts,  if  a  poor  woman  was  accused  of  witchcrati, 
she  was  put  on  trial  in  a  most  peculiar  manner.  They  tied  her  to  a 
plank  and  threw  her  into  the  water.  If  she  sank  she  was  innocent — 
which  of  course  was  a  great  comfort  to  her!  If  she  floated  they  took 
her  out  and  burnt  her  for  a  witch. 

A  LAND  OF  LIBERTY 

But  thank  the  Lord,  we  are  past  those  bigoted  and  cruel  times. 
We  live  in  a  day  when  men  have  the  right  to  think — to  think  aloud  and 
utter  their  thoughts,  without  being  beheaded  for  it,  or  burnt  at  the 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


stake.  God  be  thanked  for  this  Land  of  Liberty,  for  the  freedom  to 
worship  him  as  conscience  dictates — not  the  conscience  of  our  neighbors, 
but  of  ourselves.  I  am  proud  of  my  country,  proud  to  be  an  American 
citizen,  and  proud  to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

A  STRAW  IN  THE  WIND 

Speaking  of  wonders,  I  am  reminded  of  an  incident  that  happened 
right  here,  in  this  Tabernacle,  a  year  or  more  ago.  Elder  B.  H.  Roberts 
was  speaking,  standing  as  I  am  now,  just  in  front  of  the  microphone, 
and  I  was  sitting  in  the  next  seat  below.  He  was  rather  husky.  He 
always  was  a  "husky,"  you  know ;  but  this  time  the  huskiness  was  in  his 
throat.  He  cleared  it  once  or  twice,  and  then  I  reached  to  him  a  cough 
lozenge,  and  President  Grant,  from  the  seat  above,  did  the  same.  Said 
Brother  Roberts  in  a  low  tone :  "I'm  afraid  I'll  swallow  them."  And 
I,  in  a  whisper — a  whisper,  mind  you — replied:  "Well,  that's  what 
we  want  you  to  do."  And  that  whisper  went  all  over  the  world.  At 
least  it  went  as  far  as  the  City  Cemetery ;  for  a  woman  living  near  there 
said  to  me  next  morning:  "I  heard  it  over  my  radio.  I  heard  what 
Roberts  said,  and  I  heard  your  whisper."  That  is  only  a  straw,  but 
it  shows  the  direction  of  the  wind. 

THE  MARVELOUS  WORK  AND  WONDER 

I  repeat:  We  are  living  in  an  age  of  wonders.  The  wonders 
of  science,  invention  and  discovery;  the  marvels  of  steam  and  elec- 
tricity, the  miracles  of  the  telegraph,  the  telephone,  the  wireless  and  the 
radio — what  are  they  but  parts  of  the  "marvelous  work  and  wonder," 
predicted  centuries  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior,  and  begun  in  this 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times?  And  strange  to  say,  the 
most  marvelous  part  of  it  all — that  pertaining  to  the  restoration  of  the 
Everlasting  Gospel,  with  the  powers  of  the  Eternal  Priesthood  and  the 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost — is  the  part  that  the  world  overlooks  and  passes 
by  as  a  thing  of  naught. 

THE  SIGNS  THAT  FOLLOW  BELIEF 

The  Savior  said  to  his  ancient  Apostles,  and  he  has  repeated  it 
to  his  modern  Apostles  :  "Go  ye  into  all  the  world  and  preach  the 
Gospel  to  every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized  shall  be 
saved ;  he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned  (or  condemned)  ; 

"And  these  signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe.  In  my  name  they  shall  cast 
out  devils ;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues ;  if  they  drink  any  deadly  thing  it 
shall  not  hurt  them.  They  shall  take  up  serpents ;  they  shall  lay  hands  upon  the 
sick  and  they  shall  recover." 

I  am  a  living  witness  to  the  fulfilment  of  this  divine  promise.  These 
miraculous  "signs"  follow  belief  now,  the  same  as  in  days  of  old.  I 
have  seen  devils  cast  out  by  the  power  of  the  Priesthood.  I  have  seen 
and  heard  manifested  the  gift  of  tongues  and  the  interpretation  of 
tongues.  I  have  seen  the  sick  healed  with  a  touch,  and  have  been  healed 
myself  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  accompanied  by  the  prayer  and  power 
of  faith. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


135 


A  TYPICAL  INSTANCE 

I  will  cite  one  instance,  as  typical  of  many.  About  twelve  years 
ago  I  was  in  the  town  of  Sandy,  ten  miles  south  of  Salt  Lake  City,  to 
deliver  a  lecture.  Just  before  starting  for  the  hall  where  I  was  to  speak, 
I  received  an  urgent  message  from  the  Bishop  of  the  Ward,  asking  me 
to  come  and  bless  his  daughter,  a  girl  in  her  sixteenth  year,  who  was 
lying  at  the  point  of  death,  having  been  given  up  by  the  family  doctor, 
who  declared  that  she  could  not  live  till  morning.  Taking  another 
elder  with  me,  I  proceeded  to  the  Bishop's  home,  gave  the  girl  a  blessing, 
and  went  on  my  way.  Next  morning,  a  telephone  call  from  Sandy 
to  my  home  in  Salt  Lake,  informed  me  that  a  marvelous  change  had 
taken  place  in  the  young  girl's  condition.  Before  we  blessed  her,  she  had 
had  no  sleep  for  days  and  nights ;  but  no  sooner  had  she  received  the 
administration,  than  she  fell  into  a  restful  slumber  and  slept  for  twelve 
hours,  waking  up  normal  and  so  remaining. 

When  the  Doctor  came  next  morning  he  was  amazed.  "Some- 
thing has  happened  here,"  he  said.  Yes,  something  had  happened, 
indeed.  "The  prayer  of  faith"  had  "saved  the  sick,"  according  to  the 
promise  of  the  Lord. 

Now,  the  Doctor  had  been  right,  from  his  viewpoint.  Medical 
science  had  decreed  that  girl's  death,  or  had  decided  that  she  could  not 
live;  and  if  some  power  greater  than  man's  had  not  intervened,  she 
would  have  died,  according  to  the  doctor's  prediction.  But  something 
more  powerful  did  intervene.  A  greater  Science,  than  the  science  of 
medicine  was  brought  to  bear.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  said:  "She 
shall  live."  And  she  did  live.  This  girl  who,  twelve  years  ago,  could 
not  live  till  morning,  is  alive  today,  a  happy  wife  and  mother.  I, 
myself  joined  her  and  her  husband  in  eternal  wedlock  in  the  Temple 
of  the  Lord. 

I  could  relate  many  such  incidents,  if  necessary.  They  are  of 
frequent  occurrence  in  the  experience  of  the  Elders  of  Israel.  'vThese 
signs"  truly  "follow  them  that  believe,"  and  they  are  only  wanting 
where  there  is  no  faith,  or  not  enough  to  justify  them. 

TESTIMONIES  OF  THE  TRUTH 

We  call  them  testimonies — and  testimonies  they  are ;  for  testimony 
means  evidence.  Anything  that  furnishes  evidence  that  this  is  God's 
work,  is  a  testimony  concerning  it.  But  healings  are  not  the  greatest 
evidence — they  are  but  parts  of  a  supreme  testimony,  greater  than 
dreams,  visions,  prophecies,  healings,  tongues,  and  all  other  manifesta- 
tions combined.  The  greatest  of  all  testimonies  is  the  illumination  of 
the  soul  by  the  gift  and  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  How  well  I  remember 
when  it  came  to  me.  It  showed  me  my  place  in  the  divine  scheme  of 
things;  it  showed  me  where  I  came  from,  why  I  am  here,  what  is 
expected  of  me  while  here,  and  what  awaits  me  in  the  Great  Hereafter. 
That  is  the  greatest  thing  that  God  ever  did  for  me.  This  is  my 
testimony,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  bear  it  here  and  now  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  all  of  the 
blessings  of  this  conference  and  for  all  the  blessings  unto  me  personally 
and  unto  the  missionaries  over  whom  I  have  the  honor  of  presiding. 

In  this  centennial  year,  the  world  may  well  ask,  as  never  before, 
is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  of  divine  origin? 

The  purpose  of  all  intellectual  research  should  be  to  discover  the 
truth.  Truth  is  defined  by  revelation  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as 
"knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  and  as  they  were  and  as  they  are 
to  come."   And  that  "the  spirit  of  truth  is  of  God." 

Strictly  speaking,  truth  has  no  degrees.  A  thing  is  either  true  or 
not  true.  To  ascertain  the  truth  we  use  evidence.  While  the  word 
proof  is  sometimes  loosely  used  as  a  synonym  for  evidence,  yet  more 
correctly  it  indicates  the  amount  and  quality  of  evidence  which  brings 
conviction  to  the  mind.  When  evidence  carries  assent  or  conviction 
to  the  mind,  the  matter  is  said  to  be  proved.  However  the  matter 
may  be  in  theory,  the  word  proof  is  constantly  used  where  the  state  of 
mind  which  is  brought  about  by  the  evidence  does  not  amount  to  that 
absolute  certainty  which  is  involved  in  a  mathematical  demonstration; 
it  does  not  produce  absolute  or  necessary  truth  as  to  which  a  supposition 
to  the  contrary  is  not  and  cannot  be  true.  In  investigations  of  every 
kind  it  is  important  that  a  correct  estimate  be  made  of  the  kind  and 
degree  of  assurance  of  which  the  subject  admits.  Moral  certainty, 
not  mathematical  demonstration,  is  the  highest  degree  of  assurance  of 
which  some  truths  admit.  Even  in  the  realm  of  the  administration  of 
the  criminal  law,  where  proof  beyond  a  reasonable  doubt  is  necessary  to 
convict,  mathematical  certainty  is  not  required.  An  abiding  conviction 
to  a  moral  certainty  is  sufficient. 

In  the  noted  controversy  during  the  middle  of  the  last  century,  in 
which  Lord  Brougham,  a  distinguished  Scotchman,  who  was  once  Lord 
Chancellor  of  Great  Britain,  answered  another  distinguished  Scotch- 
man, Mr.  David  Hume,  somewhat  a  skeptic  in  his  views,  who  had 
claimed  that  proof  of  a  miracle  was  impossible,  Lord  Brougham, 
although  he  thought  his  opponent's  arguments  went  to  the  very  denial 
vi  the  possibility  of  the  proof  of  any  revelation,  and  realizing  the 
importance  of  combating  such  an  idea,  yet  did  not  pretend  to  use 
more  than  moral  evidence ;  did  not  pretend  to  use  mathematical  demon- 
stration. 

Lord  Brougham  said : 

"The  degree  of  excellence  and  of  strength  to  which  testimony  may  rise 
seems  almost  indefinite.  There  is  hardly  any  cogency  which  it  is  not  capable 
by  possible  supposition  of  attaining.  The  endless  multiplication  of  witnesses,  the 
unbounded  variety  of  their  habits  of  thinking,  their  prejudices,  their  interests, 
afford  the  means  of  conceiving  the  force  of  their  testimony  augmented  ad 
infinitum,  because  these  circumstances  afford  the  means  of  diminishing  in- 
definitely the  chances  of  their  all  being  mistaken,  all  misled,  or  all  combining 
to  deceive  us." 


ELDER    CHARLES   H.  HART 


137 


Along  the  same  line  Lord  Brougham  in  his  argument  with  the 
skeptic  Hume  further  said : 

"Let  any  man  try  to  calculate  the  chances  of  a  thousand  persons  who  come 
from  different  quarters,  and  never  saw  each  other  before,  and  who  all  vary 
in  their  habits,  stations,  opinions,  interests,  being  mistaken  or  combining  to 
deceive  us,  when  they  give  the  same  account  of  an  event  as  having  happened 
before  their  eyes,  these  chances  are  many  hundreds  of  thousands  to  one. 
And  yet  we  can  conceive  of  them  multiplied  indefinitely;  for  one  hundred 
thousand  such  witnesses  may  all  in  like  manner  bear  the  same  testimony;  and 
they  may  all  tell  us  their  story  within  twenty-four  hours  after  the  transaction  and 
in  the  next  parish." 

In  law,  evidence  is  classified  as  direct  and  circumstantial,  the 
latter  meaning  "the  evidence  afforded  not  by  direct  testimony  of  an  eye 
witness  to  the  fact  to  be  proved,  but  by  the  bearing  upon  that  of  other 
and  subsidiary  facts  which  are  relied  upon  as  inconsistent  with  any 
result  other  than  the  truth  of  the  principal  fact." 

I  am  not  disposed  to  place  in  contrast  direct  and  circumstantial 
evidence  since  they  are  not  naturally  opposed.  Both  kinds  have  a 
legitimate  place  in  the  proof  of  disputed  facts.  It  should  be  noted  that 
while  there  is  a  popular  impression  that  circumstantial  evidence  is 
unreliable  or  unsatisfactory,  yet  many  jurists  are  strong  in  its  praise  and 
only  a  few  overstate  its  probative  force.  Both  kinds  of  testimony 
support  the  divine  inauguration  of  Mormonism. 

Lord  Chief  Baron  MacDonald,  a  jurist  of  England,  said  of  cir- 
cumstantial evidence: 

"It  is  almost  impossible  for  a  variety  of  witnesses  speaking  to  a  variety  of 
circumstances,  so  to  concert  a  story  as  to  impose  upon  a  jury  by  a  fabrication 
of  that  sort,  so  that  where  it  is  cogent,  strong  and  powerful,  where  the  witnesses 
do  not  contradict  themselves,  it  may  be  evidence  more  satisfactory  than  even 
direct  evidence,  and  there  are  more  instances  than  one  where  that  has  been 
the  case." 

The  same  judge  said  : 

"Where  the  proof  arises  from  the  irresistible  force  of  a  number  of  circum- 
stances, which  we  cannot  conceive  to  be  fraudulently  brought  together  to  bear 
on  one  point,  that  is  less  fallible  than  under  some  circumstances  direct  testimony 
may  be." 

Sir  Alfred  Wills  in  the  preface  to  the  sixth  edition  of  the  book  of 
his  father  William  Wills  on  Circumstantial  Evidence,  refers  to  several 
cases  in  which  a  single  penstroke  no  longer  than  an  eighth  of  an  inch 
was  the  critical  test  upon  which  important  cases  turned  (such  as 
Cresswell  vs.  (Jackson  and  Howe  vs.  Burckhardt,  and  other  cases). 
A  legal  authority  says  that  circumstantial  evidence  "although  not  in- 
variably so,  is  frequently  superior  in  proving  power  to  the  average 
strength  of  direct  evidence,  and  that  under  safeguards  and  qualifications 
which  have  been  stated,  it  affords  a  secure  ground  for  the  most  important 
judgments  in  cases  where  direct  evidence  is  not  to  be  obtained." 

The  principles  and  the  nature  of  the  mental  processes  involved 
are  the  same  in  forensic  inquiry  as  in  the  ascertainment  of  truth  in 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


any  other  department  of  human  activity,  and  are  made  Use  of  con- 
sciously or  unconsciously  by  everyone  in  the  daily  course  of  life, 
religious  inquiries  included. 

I  have  thus  spoken  particularly  of  the  value  of  circumstantial 
evidence,  not  because  I  would  minimize  in  the  least  the  importance 
of  the  direct  evidence  in  support  of  the  divinity  of  the  restored  Gospel, 
but  because  I  appreciate  the  great  importance  of  circumstantial  evidence 
in  the  consideration  of  the  multitude  of  incidents  making  up  the  case 
of  the-  divinity  of  the  restored  Gospel.  Many  thousands  of  these  items 
are  to  be  found  in  the  six  volumes  of  Church  history  mentioned  in 
this  conference. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  and  always  will  be  the  most  im- 
portant of  the  direct  witnesses  to  the  divine  origin  of  the  restoredi 
Gospel  and  priesthood.  In  comparing  his  experience  with  the  experience 
of  Saul  of  Tarsus,  who  saw  the  light  and  heard  the  voice,  Joseph  Smith 
said : 

"So  it  was  with  me.  I  had  actually  seen  a  light  and  in  the  midst  of  that 
light  I  saw  two  Personages,  and  they  did  in  reality  speak  to  me;  and  though 
I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying  that  I  had  seen  a  vision  yet  it  was  true; 
and  while  they  were  persecuting  me,  reviling  me,  and  speaking  all  manner  of 
evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying,  I  was  led  to  say  in  my  heart :  Why 
persecute  me  for  telling  the  truth  ?  I  have  actually  seen  a  vision ;  and  who  am 
I  that  I  can  withstand  God,  or  why  does  the  world  think  to  make  me  deny 
what  I  have  actually  seen?  For  I  had  seen  a  vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew 
that  God  knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it,  neither  dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I  knew 
that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God,  and  come  under  condemnation." 

There  are  many  other  witnesses  giving  direct  testimony  as  to  one 
or  another  of  the  important  items  comprised  in  the  coming  forth  of 
Mormonism.  For  instance,  the  Three  Witnesses  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon  each  gave  direct  testimony  to  the  facts  declared  by  them.  The 
Eight  iWjitnesses  speak  of  facts  known  to  them  by  the  physical  senses 
of  sight  and  feeling,  and  the  muscular  sense  of  weight.  Joseph's  parents 
and  other  members  of  the  family  gave  direct  testimony  to  other  items. 
During  the  past  century  there  have  been  hundreds  of  other  witnesses 
giving  direct  testimony  to  facts  which  fit  into  and  interlock  with  the 
case  of  circumstantial  evidence  in  support  of  the  divine  restoration  of 
the  Gospel.  Some  of  the  most  important  of  these  testimonies  were 
given  under  conditions  making  them  more  weighty  than  if  given  under 
the  sanction  of  an  oath.  Some  gave  declarations  admissible  as  evidence 
under  rules  of  common  law  and  the  decisions  of  our  state  and  federal 
courts,  Utah  included,  as  dying  declarations  made  in  consciousness  of 
early  approaching  death,  although  not  made  in  court  nor  under  the 
sanction  of  an  oath. 

Shakespeare  must  have  well  understood  this  rule  of  the  English 
common  law,  for  in  the  play  of  King  John,  his  character,  Melun,  when 
mortally  wounded  and  in  fear  of"  early  dissolution,  in  announcing  the 
intended  treachery  of  King  Lewis  and  upon  finding  himself  disbelieved, 
is  made  to  exclaim : 


ELDER   CHARLES  H.  HART 


139 


"Have  I  not  hideous  death  within  my  view, 
Retaining  but  a  quantity  of  life 
Which  bleeds  away  even  as  a  form  of  wax 
Resolveth  from  his  figure  'gainst  the  fire? 
What  in  the  world  should  make  me  now  deceive 
Since  I  must  lose  the  use  of  all  deceit? 
Why  should  I  then  be  false  since  it  is  true 
That  I  must  die  here,  and  live  hence  by  truth?" 

For  more  than  forty  years  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  consider- 
ing many  of  the  circumstances  and  incidents  making  up  the  great  case 
of  so-called  Mormonism,  in  the  light  of  the  rules  and  principles  laid 
down  by  the  great  jurists  for  the  discovery  of  the  truth  and  for  the 
detection  of  error.  Joseph  and  Hyrum  went  knowingly  like  lambs  to 
the  slaughter,  sealing  their  testimony  with  their  precious  blood. 
Hundreds  of  their  followers  willingly  gave  their  lives  in  the  same  cause. 

One  non-Mormon  writer  asks : 

"Is  it  not  beyond  all  reason  that  a  lad,  born  of  poor  parents,  devoid  of  any 
save  the  commonest  education,  too  poor  to  buy  books,  should  have  accomplished 
what  he  did  in  less  than  forty  years  unless  there  was  some  great  reason  for  it?" 

It  required  more  than  worldly  wisdom  to  produce  such  books  as 
the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  and  to  formulate  a  system  of  Church  government  which 
has  been  praised  by  non-members  as  having  no  superior  on  earth. 

From  my  consideration  of  the  testimony  and  the  circumstances  that 
have  come  to  me  in  support  of  this  great  cause  which  is  now  before 
the  world  of  the  divinity  of  the  restored  Gospel,  I  can  truly  say  that 
I  have  an  abiding  conviction  to  a  moral  certainty  of  the  truth  of  the 
claims  of  Mormonism,  of  the  truth  of  its  divinity. 

We  have  had  many  experiences  in  the  Canadian  mission  indicating 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord,  and  what  a  great  thing  it  is  to  know  that 
God  lives,  and  be  able  to  appeal  to  him  and  to  know  that  he  answers 
our  prayers.  I  found  on  my  last  trip  a  newly  made  convert  whose 
right  arm  was  withered.  Her  husband  had  fought  in  five  of  the 
fiercest  battles  of  the  great  war  and  had  evidently  become  shell-shocked 
and  had  wandered  off.  She  was  losing  control  of  her  children  as  well. 
Her  prayer  in  connection  with  her  baptism  was  that  she  might  have  the 
use  of  her  right  hand,  that  she  might  be  able  to  support  her  children, 
that  her  husband  might  be  restored  to  her  and  that  she  might  regain 
control  of  her  children.  When  I  saw  her  a  short  time  after  her 
baptism  she  told  me  that  when  she  went  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
she  felt  that  withered  hand  was  being  revivified.  When  she  came  out 
of  the  water  she  was  able  to  wring  out  her  wet  clothes  with  the  hand 
that  had  been  useless  for  a  long  time.  There  was  only  the  little  finger 
that  had  not  fully  straightened  but  was  much  improved  and  she  expected 
to  obtain  the  full  use  of  the  same.  She  had  regained  control  of  her 
children  and  expected  to  find  her  husband. 

I  rejoice  in  the  many  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  us,  and  aside  from 
any  test  such  as  might  be  applied  to  Mormonism  by  the  jurist,  it  is  my 
testimony  in  the  light  of  the  spirit  of  truth,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  indeed  the  Christ,  and  that  this  is  the  restored 
Gospel,  and  that  the  power  of  the  living  God  to  Joseph  Smith,  the 
prophet,  has  been  conferred  upon  his  successors  and  now  is  upon 
President  Grant  and  his  associates.  May  God  help  us  to  realize  these 
truths  and  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  great  case  that  has  been  partly 
presented  in  this  conference  and  which  abides  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHAD  R.  LYMAN 

THE  RESULT  OF  A  BOY'S  APPEAL. 

Who  can  imagine  an  event  more  romantic  than  for  a  boy  hardly 
more  than  fourteen  to  go  upon  his  knees  and  appeal  successfully  for  the 
Creator  of  the  universe  to  give  him  light  and  guidance?  Strange  as  this 
may  seem  to  many  it  was  nevertheless  the  experience  that  came  to  Joseph 
Smith  the  founder  of  the  Mormon  Church. 

Of  this  experience  he  made  a  written  record — that  it  was  revealed 
to  him  at  the  age  of  fourteen  that  God  had  a  great  work  for  him  to  do ; 
that  his  name  "should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among  all  nations,  kin- 
dreds and  tongues."  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  P.  51,  Verse  33.)  How, 
may  I  ask,  without  some  sort  of  assistance,  could  a  boy  of  fourteen  have 
such  an  experience  with  such  marvelous  results  ? 

Contrast  that  lone  boy  one  hundred  years  ago  with  the  multitudes 
that  have  here  assembled,  their  hearts  filled  with  thanksgiving  and  grat- 
itude, celebrating  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  the  organization  of  the 
Church.  One  boy  then  appealing;  hundreds  of  thousands  now  listening 
in. 

"Behold,  saith  the  Lord,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder."  (Isaiah  29:14.) 

Where  can  you  find,  or  has  there  ever  been,  a  work  more  marvelous, 
more  wonderful? 

THE  VIEWS  OF  AN  ECONOMIST 

My  purpose  is  to  draw  your  atention  to  the  words  and  views  of  Dr. 
Thomas  Nixon  Carver  of  Harvard,  one  of  the  greatest  authorities  on 
economics.  In  an  article  for  "The  Westerner"  (April,  1930)  he  has 
expressed  his  views  of  the  work  and  accomplishments  of  the  Church, 
whose  history  began  with  the  prayer  of  a  boy.  I  urge  that  copies  of  this 
article  be  placed  in  the  hands  of  our  seminary  students  and  missionaries. 
The  demand  for  it  has  been  such  that  "The  Westerner"  has  provided  an 
ample  supply  of  reprints. 

Those  who  have  difficulty  in  seeing  things  with  the  eye  of  faith  will, 
I  think,  have  their  faith  stimulated  and  supported  by  the  scientific  and 
logical  presentation  which  Dr.  Carver  gives : 

FACTORS  IN  STATESMANSHIP. 
"Statesmanship,"  Dr.  Carver  says,  "is  the  art  of  nation-building.  One  can 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  141 

study  it  in  miniature  in  the  early  colonies  on  the  Atlantic  coast,  and  in  the  Mor- 
mon colonies  in  Utah." 

Imagine  a  boy  of  fourteen  beginning  an  institution  that  commands 
any  attention  from  one  of  the  greatest  political  economists  in  the  world, 
who  says  further: 

"I  have  long  been  interested  in  the  Mormon  polity.  It  throws  a  great  deal  of 
light  on  the  art  of  nation-building." 

Is  that  a  boy's  work — nation-building? 

"It  furnishes  a  laboratory  for  the  study  of  the  science  of  statesmanship.  It 
is  one  of  the  most  interesting  and  instructive  experiments  in  the  world." 

Is  that  a  boy's  work?  The  results  are  such  that,  as  Dr.  Carver 
says,  "it  is  one  of  the  most  interesting  and  instructive  experiments  in 
statesmanship  in  all  the  world."  Could  anything  but  the  power  of  God 
make  such  an  accomplishment  possible? 

Continuing,  the  economist  says: 

"Themistocles,  twitted  because  he  could  not  play  a  musical  instrument,  re- 
plied that,  although  he  could  not  fiddle,  he  could  make  a  small  city  into  a  great 
and  glorious  one.  The  Mormon  leaders  did  even  better  than  that.  They  did  not 
even  have  a  small  city  to  start  with.  They  started  with  nothing  and  built  a  great 
and  glorious  commonwealth." 

Is  not  this  marvelous? — even  "a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder." 
(Isaiah  29:14.) 

THE  MANNER  OF  ACCOMPLISHMENT 

"Such  things,"  Dr.  Carver  continues,  "can  be  accomplished  in  only 
one  way."  That  is  what  I  say — in  only  one  way — and  that  way  is  with 
divine  help,  guidance  and  inspiration. 

"That  way,"  Dr.  Carver  says,  "is  the  economizing  of  man-power,  since  the 
economy  of  man-power  is  the  key  to  the  whole  science  of  statesmanship,  and  of 
the  whole  art  of  nation-building." 

What  could  be  more  marvelous,  what  more  wonderful,  than  for  a 
boy  unlearned,  a  boy  with  little  opportunity  to  go  to  school,  one  whose 
youth  was  spent  in  poverty,  to  start  an  institution,  which,  from  the 
point  of  view  of  the  "science  of  statesmanship"  and  the  "art  of  nation- 
building,"  commands  the  attention,  the  respect,  the  admiration,  of  the 
scholarship  of  the  world? 

"It  is  only  by  economizing  man-power  that  great  masses  of  material  can  be 
moved,  that  rivers  can  be  dammed,  ditches  dug,  and  land  irrigated.  It  is  only  by 
economizing  man-power  that  cities  can  be  built,  populations  fed,  and  energy  be 
spared  for  the  arts  and  graces  of  life." 

"The  Mormons  did  not  even  start  with  a  mass  of  highly  educated  or  skilled 
man-power." 

BOTH  POOR  AND  UNEDUCATED 

Thanks  to  the  professor  for  those  good  words — that  the  Mormons 
did  not  start  with  a  highly  educated  people.  You  remember  that  when 
John  the  Baptist  sent  messengers  to  Jesus,  asking,  "Art  thou  he  that 


142,  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

should  come,  or  do  we  look  for  another?"  Jesus  answered,  go  back  to 
John  and  say,  "The  poor  have  the  gospel  preached  to  them."  (St.  Mat- 
thew, 11:3,  5.)    Hear  what  the  professor  says: 

"The  Mormons  .  .  .  started,  as  a  general  rule,  with  commonplace  people. 
These  people  came  from  the  backwoods,  the  prairies,  and  the  mountains.  From 
overseas,  they  came  from  peasant  farms,  from  coal  mines,  and  from  work  shops. 
While  they  were  sturdy,  hard-working  people,  they  were  not  conspicuously  gifted 
or  learned." 

"Art  thou  he  that  should  come,  or  do  we  look  for  another  ?"  asked 
the  messengers  from  John  of  Jesus.  His  answer  was:  "Tell  John  the 
poor  have  the  Gospel  preached  to  them." 

"It  was  necessary  for  the  Mormon  Church,"  continues  Dr.  Carver,  "to  train 
its  own  people.  They  not  only  began  with  desert  land  and  had  to  put  every- 
thing on  it,  even  water;  they  also  had  to  start  with  relatively  uneducated  people. 
This  double  task  of  developing  both  land  and  people  could  never  have  been  per- 
formed except  by  economizing  such  man-power  as  there  was,  and  utilizing  it  to 
the  nth  degree." 

For  me  to  say  what  the  results  are  might  not  be  very  remarkable. 
For  other  members  of  the  Church  to  say  it,  might  not  be  remarkable; 
but  for  a  great  economist,  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  to  say  this,  in- 
dicates to  me  that  here  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 

Dr.  Carver's  strong  words  are:  "The  results  were  a  marvel  of 
statesmanship." 

A  CLUE  TO  THEIR  SUCCESS 

"Man-power,  he  says,  "may  be  economized  in  three  ways,  and  he 
analyzes  the  Mormon  Church  in  these  three  ways : 

"First,  man-power  may  be  economized  by  cultivating  sound,  personal  habits 
among  the  people.  They  who  waste  their  substance  in  riotous  living,"  says  the 
professor,  "are  wasting  more  than  wealth.  They  are  wasting  their  own  vital 
energy,  their  own  man-power." 

If  I  could  see  him,  I  would  take  the  professor  by  the  hand  and 
thank  him  heartily  for  the  inspiring  words  that  follow : 

"I  have  never  found  more  sound  and  wholesome  personal  habits  than  among 
the  Mormons.  I  never  mingled  with  people  who  showed  fewer  signs  of  dissipa- 
tion. I  have  never  studied  groups  of  people  who  seemed  better  nourished  and 
more  healthful.  I  have  never  known  people  who  took  more  pains  to  educate 
their  children.  These  traits  are  a  clue  to  the  success  of  the  Mormons  as  colon- 
izers and  nation  builders. 

"Man-power  is  also  economized  by  discovering  hidden  talent  and  giving  it  a 

chance  to  function  The  world  is  always  in  desperate  need  of  unusual 

talent.  Any  system  of  supervision  or  teaching  which  can  discover  latent  genius 
and  make  it  active  is  a  factor  in  nation  building.  To  discover  hidden  genius  is 
better  than  to  discover  a  hidden  gold  mine. 

THE  POWER  BEHIND  IT  ALL. 

"For  some  reason  or  other,"  he  says — you  know  the  reason  and  so  do  I — 
"the  leaders  of  Mormonism  had  an  almost  uncanny" — (that  is  as  strong  a  word 
as  any  scientific  man  could  use  for  'inspiration')— "the  leaders  of  Mormonism 
had  an  almost  uncanny  power  of  discovering  hidden  talent.  .  .  .  The  power  to 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


143 


save  skill,  talent,  and  genius  from  going  to  waste,  is  as  near  to  divine  wisdom 
as  anything  we  are  ever  likely  to  know  in  this  world." 

With  the  vocabulary  to  which  science  is  limited,  how  could  Dr. 
Carver  more  certainly  stamp  the  Church  with  the  mark  of  divinity? 

"Man-power,"  he  says,  "is  also  economized  by  cooperation,  or  by  working 

together  harmoniously  It  may  have  been  the  sheer  necessity  of  the  situation 

which  forced  the  early  Mormons  to  cooperate  or  starve.  It  may  have  been 
the  bond  of  a  common  religion,  it  may  have  been  superior  intelligence  and  in- 
sight.  Whatever  the  source,  the  result  was  good." 

A  scientist  cannot  use  the  word  "inspiration,"  nor  say  that  people 
are  guided  by  Divine  Providence.  He  can  use  only  those  terms  that  refer 
to  human  forces  or  to  the  forces  of  nature. 

But  we  must  acknowledge  that  there  is  a  something  which  we  call 
faith  that  comes  into  human  hearts.  It  is  a  something  like  electricity, 
difficult  to  define,  but,  like  electricity,  tremendously  powerful.  It  is  the 
faith  of  the  people  of  the  Church  in  the  message  delivered  by  the  Prophet 
which  gives  to  this  institution  its  active,  thrilling,  marvelous  vitality. 

Sacred  solo  by  Catherine  Steed,  "The  mighty  God  hath  spoken." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  first  organization  of  our  women  ifi  the  United  States  was  the 
Relief  Society  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Today  we  have  nearly  one  hundred  thousand  members  in  that  or- 
ganization. A  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  has  been  accomplished 
by  them. 

We  have  a  Mutual  Improvement  Association  for  the  young  ladies, 
which  organization  is  now  more  than  fifty  years  old,  and  has  a  member- 
ship of  more  than  fifty  thousand  at  the  present  time. 

We  have  a  Primary  Association  that  has  been  established  for  more 
than  fifty  years  and  that  now  has  practically  a  hundred  thousand 
members. 

INSUFFICIENT  TIME 

I  regret  exceedingly  that  we  have  never  had  a  conference — and 
I  suppose  we  never  will  have — in  which  we  are  not  limited  for  time 
as  it  draws  near  to  the  close.  We  make  our  calculations  in  our  Mutual 
conferences,  in  our  great  Sunday  School  meetings,  and  the  conferences 
of  our  other  organizations,  with  the  expectation  that  we  can  get  through 
on  time  and  be  able  to  hear  from  all  to  whom  we  would  like  to  listen. 
But  almost  without  exception,  towards  the  close  of  our  meetings  we 
are  short  of  time. 

SISTERS  TO  SPEAK  BRIEFLY 

I  had  hoped  to  give  to  our  good  sisters,  the  presidents  of  the  Relief 
Society,  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association,  and  the 
Primary  Organization,  at  least  ten  minutes  each  in  which  to  speak 
to  us  at  this  conference.    But  we  will  have  to  ask  them  to  be  content 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  the  same  amount  of  time  that  we  have  given  to  the  mission 
presidents,  namely,  seven  and  one-half  minutes  each. 

We  shall  call  upon  Sister  Robison  of  the  Relief  Society  to  be  the 
first  of  these  sisters  to  address  us. 

SISTER  LOUISE  Y.  ROBISON 

President  of  the  Relief  Societies  of  the  Church 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  pray  that  my  Heavenly  Father  will 
give  me  strength  that  I  can  acceptably  thank  him  for  the  great  tribute 
that  was  paid  to  the  women  of  our  Church  by  our  beloved  prophet, 
Heber  J.  Grant. 

At  this  time  the  people  of  the  Church  have  undoubtedly  been 
reading  the  history  of  our  early  pioneers  and  of  the  founders  of  the 
Church,  and  I  think  the  women  of  today  cannot  but  feel  impressed 
with  what  the  women  of  the  early  days  did.  Their  equipment  was  so 
poor  compared  with  that  which  we  have.  Those  women  did  not  even 
have  matches,  nor  coal  stoves,  nor  gas  stoves.  There  were  no  electric 
lights,  no  bath  tubs,  no  sewing  machines,  nor  any  rubber  goods.  It 
took  from  one  to  three  months  to  hear  from  loved  ones  left  in  foreign 
lands. 

A  short  time  before  the  Church  was  organized  that  terrible  battle 
of  New  Orleans,  with  its  awful  consequences,  was  fought  two  weeks 
after  peace  had  been  declared  in  Europe.  Now  we  have  so  many  con- 
veniences ;  news  from  the  world  reaches  us  in  a  very  few  minutes.  Our 
homes  are  so  wonderfully  equipped  that  it  seems  to  me  the  world  is 
thinking  only  of  material  comforts,  and  is  standing  on  tiptoe  for  some- 
thing new. 

A  few  months  ago  I  had  the  privilege,  through  the  courtesy  of 
President  and  Sister  Moyle  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission,  of  attending 
a  street  meeting  on  a  busy  thoroughfare  in  New  York.  Our  fine  elders 
stood  forth,  clean  and  intelligent,  and  offered  to  the  people  the  plan 
of  salvation.  Very  few  cared  for  it.  I  thought  at  that  time,  if  an 
inventor  were  to  offer  a  new  explosive,  or  something  that  could  take 
life,  there  would  be  hordes  and  crowds  of  people  around,  and  it  would 
be  broadcast  everywhere.  But  when  our  elders  offer  the  plan  of  life 
eternal  it  is  not  even  recognized. 

The  women  of  our  Church  appreciate  the  opportunity  for  service 
the  Gospel  has  brought  to  us.  As  mothers  in  Israel  we  should  be  just 
as  valiant  in  the  cause  of  truth  as  were  our  former  sisters.  We  may 
not  have  to  face  mobs,  and  be  driven  from  our  homes,  but  we  should 
stand  just  as  firmly  for  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as  did  those  blessed 
sisters.  We  were  told  most  vividly  in  our  Relief  Society  conference 
how  Sister  Lucy  Smith  felt  when  her  two  beloved  sons  were  brought 
home  to  her — martyred.  We  may  not  have  to  experience  this  kind  of 
tragedy,  but  there  are  worse  things  than  this,  for  the  enemies  of  truth, 
honor  and  purity  are  using  every  means  to  destroy  our  children  today. 
The  path  is  clear  for  mothers  to  follow.   We  must  live  the  Gospel  in 


SISTER  LOUISE  Y.  ROBISON 


145 


our  homes  in  such  a  way  that  our  children  will  have  confidence  in  our 
teaching.  We  must  feel  that  no  effort  is  too  great  to  teach  our  children 
that  there  is  a  Father  in  heaven,  and  that  he  does  hear  our  prayers. 
Let  us  make  it  a  real  event  in  our  family  when  a  child  is  blessed  or 
baptized.  Make  our  little  boys  understand  the  importance  and  re- 
sponsibility of  being  ordained  to  the  priesthood.  We  know  the  truth 
that  has  been  given  to  us,  and  that  it  is  only  through  our  earnest  efforts 
and  our  prayers  that  this  message  can  be  carried  to  the  world  that  all 
may  rejoice. 

I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  membership  in  this  Church.  I 
thank  him  that  I  have  a  testimony  that  he  has  spoken  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  thank  him  for  the  leaders  we  have ;  for  those 
fine  men  holding  the  priesthood  of  the  living  God,  who  recognize 
women  and  who  help  them  to  accomplish  what  our  Heavenly  Father 
wishes  them  to  do. 

I  pray  that  we  shall  carry  the  spirit  of  this  glorious  conference 
to  our  homes,  and  that  the  whole  Church  and  the  whole  world  will  be 
lifted  up  and  blessed  through  this  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.   I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

SISTER  RUTH  MAY  FOX 

President  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  surely  stand  before  you  at  this 
moment  as  one  of  the  least  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven.  To  think  that 
this  day  should  ever  come  to  me  that  I  should  be  asked  to  speak  at 
this  great  Centennial  Conference  is  marvelous  to  me. 

The  trend  of  the  remarks  in  this  conference  seems  to  be  the  recall- 
ing of  things  of  the  past.  I  wonder  if  I  shall  be  forgiven  if  I  tell  you  I 
was  born  in  one  of  the  factory  districts  of  England,  that  if  my  father 
had  not  received  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  I  might  have  been  there 
yet.  Perhaps  through  my  days  I  might  have  been  working  in  the 
factory,  as  many  married  women  did,  striving  to  get  food  for  my 
children.  I  might  have  had  a  husband  who  was  not  converted  to 
prohibition. 

I  might  tell  you  that  my  mother  died  when  I  was  a  tiny  baby; 
that  I  lived  here  and  there,  with  any  good  sister  that  my  father  could 
prevail  upon  to  take  care  of  me ;  that  when  we  crossed  the  plains  two 
families  co-operated  in  one  wagon,  fourteen  members  in  all.  But  we 
came  with  faith. 

As  a  little  girl  I  came  feeling  that  if  I  could  look  on  the  face  of  Pres- 
ident Brigham  Young  it  was  all  the  blessing  I  would  ask.  I  might  tell  you 
that  when  I  was  married  I  felt  if  the  Lord  would  give  me  enough 
bread  and  molasses  to  feed  my  children  1  should  be  content.  For 
the  benefit  of  the  youth  of  Israel  I  will  say  that  if  President  Young 
had  asked  me  to  abstain  from  eating  any  partcular  kind  of  food  or 
drink — I  used  to  say  if  he  had  asked  me  to  eat  mush  and  milk  all  my 
days— I  would  have  done  it.  That  was  because  faith  had  been  im- 
planted in  my  heart  by  my  father. 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  so  I  am  reminded  of  the  words  I  have  heard  President  Nibley 
say,  "I  do  not  forget  the  pit  from  which  I  was  dug."  I  need  not  bear 
testimony  in  words.  My  whole  life  is  a  testimony  to  me  that  this  is 
the  work  of  God,  and  that  God  fulfils  his  promises  and  loves  his 
children.    If  they  will  but  walk  in  his  paths  they  will  be  blessed  forever. 

I  desire  to  thank  President  Grant  and  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church  for  this  great  blessing  that  has  come  to  me.  I  desire  to  pledge 
to  them  my  allegiance  and  my  loyalty,  and  if  it  is  not  too  strong  to  say, 
even  to  the  death ;  for  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  always  been  the 
greatest  thing  in  the  world  to  me. 

Naturally  I  am  interested  in  the  youth  of  Israel,  and,  oh,  if  I  had 
the  voice  of  an  angel,  as  has  been  quoted  here  at  this  conference,  if  I 
could  only  tell  every  young  man  and  young  woman  what  it  means  to  try 
to  be  a  Latter-day  Saint,  I  would  be  so  happy  in  doing  it.  I  do  pray 
that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  will  rest  upon  the  fathers  and  mothers, 
the  guardians  and  teachers  of  the  youth  throughout  the  Church.  Oh, 
may  they  live  the  Gospel  and  set  such  an  example  before  their  children 
that  they,  the  children,  will  delight  to  follow  them.  May  God  bless  the 
youth  of  Israel  that  faith  may  grow  and  increase  in  their  hearts,  that 
Zion  may  rise  and  shine,  as  God  has  promised,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name 
of  his  beloved  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

SISTER  MAY  ANDERSON 

President  of  the  Primary  Association 

It  is  with  great  humility  and  yet  with  great  pride  that  I  stand 
before  you  today  to  represent  the  great  army  of  the  future,  the  children 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  to  say  to  President  Grant,  as  his  repre- 
sentative, that  I  appreciate  this  honor  beyond  all  words  in  my  power  to 
express. 

The  future  lies  before  the  great  army  of  boys  and  girls  of  the 
Primary  Association,  numbering  as  President  Grant  has  said,  more 
than  one  hundred  thousand. 

I  was  tremendously  interested  in  the  remarks  of  Brother  Lyman, 
and  as  he  talked  I  wondered  if  Dr.  Carver  comprehended  the  beauty 
of  the  work  that  is  being  done  through  the  auxiliary  organizations  of 
the  Church.  I  wondered  if  he  knew  of  the  thousands  of  women  of  the 
type  such  as  he  describes  us  to  be  who  stand  back  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church  as  helpers  and  aids  in  promoting  in  the  world 
the  establishment  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

The  General  Board  of  the  Primary  Association  feels  it  is  bound  in 
honor  to  provide  for  the  boys  and  girls  of  the  Church  the  highest 
possible  type  of  religious  and  moral  education.  We  are  the  Religion 
Class  of  the  Church,  the  class  that  is  striving  to  put  into  the  hearts  of 
the  boys  and  girls  a  feeling  of  love,  a  feeling  of  joy,  a  knowledge  and 
understanding  of  their  opportunities,  that  they  in  this  organization  may 
have  every  possible  opportunity  to  begin  in  their  early  years  to  learn 
the  grace  and  virtue  of  service.    It  is  the  hope  of  the  General  Board 


SISTER  MAY  ANDERSON 


147 


that  the  programs  of  the  Primary  Association  will  give  every  boy  and 
girl  an  opportunity  and  a  real  chance  to  grow  in  service  to  the  Church. 
We  are  trying  to  help  them  by  producing  such  plans  as  will  make  the 
opportunity  a  real  one,  and  as  a  General  Board  we  are  pledged  to  the 
Church  in  every  possible  way  to  provide  a  program  which  will  promote 
a  magnificent  future  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  pray  that  God 
will  bless  us  in  this  effort  and  give  us  wisdom  and  understanding,  that 
we  may  go  forward  to  make  the  future  as  glorious  as  this  conference 
has  told  us  of  the  past. 

I  must  bear  my  testimony  in  concluding  and  say  to  you  that  I  know 
the  Gospel  is  true.  My  testimony  is  my  greatest  treasure,  and  that 
every  boy  and  girl  may  have  the  same  blessing  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  delighted  to  say  that  we  have  associated  with  us  in  our 
Religion  Class  work,  and  as  our  Church  Commissioner  of  Education, 
a  son  of  one  of  the  loyal,  true,  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  who  was  a 
member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  Brother  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  a 
worthy  son  of  a  worthy  father.   We  shall  now  hear  from  him. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Commissioner  of  Education 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  Unlike  nearly  all  who  have  spoken, 
this  call  to  address  you  is  wholly  unexpected  to  me. 

May  I  say  that  I  too  rejoice  at  the  opportunity  of  witnessing  what 
we  have  beheld  since  this  great  conference  began.  Many  thoughts 
have  passed  through  my  mind  as  they  have  through  yours.  I  have 
heard  the  brethren  this  morning  speak  of  some  of  the  evidences  of  this 
work.  Those  evidences  have  of  course  appealed  to  you,  and  there  are 
others  perhaps  that  appeal  to  you,  that  have  not  been  mentioned. 

It  is  written  in  Joel  2 :28  that  the  Spirit  of  God  would  be  poured 
out  upon  all  flesh.  Elder  Whitney  has  said  this  morning  that  we 
live  in  a  marvelous  age.  Our  poetic  prophet,  Parley  P.  Pratt,  sang  in 
the  first  h^mn  that  is  published  in  the  hymn  book,  of  the  marvelous 
days  that  were  about  to  be  opened  up. 

I  wonder  if  there  has  been  any  evidence  in  what  has  transpired 
in  the  past  one  hundred  years  that  bears  testimony  to  the  fulfilment  of 
the  prophecy  of  Joel  that  the  Spirit  of  God  would  be  poured  out  upon 
all  flesh.  In  that  super-excellent  address  of  the  First  Presidency  that 
was  read  by  President  Grant  at  the  opening  of  this  conference,  an 
outline  of  the  marvelous  developments  of  the  century  was  made.  These 
developments  have  been  referred  to  by  other  speakers  of  this  con- 
ference as  witnesses  of  the  fact  that  the  Spirit  of  God  has  been  poured 
out  upon  all  flesh,  and  I  doubt  that  even  Parley  P.  Pratt  foresaw  the 
glorious  effulgence  of  this  day  of  which  he  sung. 

Is  this  work  divine?    May  I  say  to  you  that  we  believe  of  all  the 


148 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


blessings  that  have  come  to  us  in  the  century  the  greatest  is  the 
witness  that  has  come  to  us  of  the  nature  of  our  Father  and  God, 
the  personal  being  that  he  is.  With  this  work  there  came  into  the 
world  at  that  time  a  conception  of  Deity  that  makes  it  easy  for  us  to 
believe  and  to  have  faith  and  for  us  to  serve.  Has  there  been  any 
philosopher,  any  philanthropist,  any  sociologist,  that  has  ever  proposed 
anything  that  has  been  as  marvelous  as  the  effect  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  upon  the  lives  of  its  members?  If  we  are  true  Latter-day 
Saints  we  live  on  a  plane  of  morality  and  virtue,  of  personal  purity  and 
of  brotherly  service  to  our  fellowmen,  that  no  other  doctrine  has  yet 
lifted  mortal  up  to.  Is  this  an  evidence  of  the  divinity  that  has  been 
in  this  Church  and  has  been  guiding  it,  and  was  in  the  beginning  of 
its  establishment? 

May  I  say  that  I  should  like  to  hold  up  to  you  what  is  another  most 
outstanding  physical  evidence  to  the  world  of  the  divinity  of  this  work, 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  stands  today,  as  it  has  stood  for  one  hundred 
years,  a  challenge  to  the  world  and  to  the  scholarship  of  the  world 
and  the  archaeologists  of  the  world,  and  it  has  met  that  challenge.  If 
this  book  is  true,  then  God  is  a  personal  being,  there  are  angels  in 
heaven  that  are  personal  beings,  and  they  have  visited  the  earth  ;  and 
if  this  book  is  not  true  Mormonism  originated  in  a  fraud.  And  so 
I  say  that  to  him  who  has  not  been  granted  faith  to  see  and  faith  to 
believe,  here  is  an  outstanding  physical  evidence  that  challenges  the 
reason  of  every  sane  individual,  and  we  hold  it  up  today  as  we  have 
held  it  during  the  century  as  an  evidence  to  all  such  and  as  testimony 
to  ourselves  that  this  Church  is  what  it  claims  to  be.  And  this,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  is  a  testimony  which  is  greater  than  any  other 
physical  evidence,  I  think,  that  we  have  that  this  work  is  of  divine 
origin.  Let  us  prize  this  incomparable  book.  But  the  greatest  of  all 
witnesses,  as  Elder  Whitney  has  said  this  morning,  is  the  witness 
of  the  Holy  Spirit.  This  is  an  evidence  that  perhaps  we  cannot  give  to 
others,  but  we  who  have  received  it  know  it  is  the  greatest,  the  surest, 
the  most  convincing.  And  my  testimony  to  you  at  this  time  is  that 
I  do  know,  because  I  have  received  the  witness  of  that  Spirit  and 
independent  of  any  and  all  other  evidence  I  declare  to  you  that  this  is 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  ever,  all  who  have  this  witness* and  others 
who  believe,  to  show  our  faith  and  testimony  by  the  manner  of  our 
service,  by  the  character  and  the  kind  of  lives  we  live,  that  we  may 
be  as  a  light  upon  a  hill,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  work  of  gathering  statistics  and  recording  history  is  of  a 
trying  nature.  There  is  not  the  same  inspiration  in  it  that  there  is  in 
going  forth  and  proclaiming  the  Gospel.  It  is  a  type  of  work  that, 
I  have  always  been  grateful  to  the  Lord,  has  not  fallen  to  my  lot.  I 
have  a  most  wonderful  admiration  for  the  historian,  the  man  who 
delves  into  things  of  the  past :   It  is  marvelous  to  me  to  contemplate  the 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


149 


great  labor  that  Brother  Roberts  has  performed  in  compiling  the  history 
of  the  Church,  also  in  writing  the  new  history  that  has  just  been 
completed.  I  know  of  no  more  faithful,  energetic,  hard-working  man 
to  record  history  and  to  ascertain  facts  that  we  have  ever  had  in  the 
Church  than  Brother  Andrew  Jenson,  and  we  shall  be  pleased  to  hear 
from  Brother  Jenson  for  ten  minutes. 

ELDER  ANDREW  JENSON 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  have  for  many  years  looked  forward 
to  this  day  with  fond  anticipations — this  Centennial  Conference  of  the 
Church.  I  have  hoped  and  prayed  that  I  might  live  long  enough  in 
mortality  to  be  present  when  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  should  be  one  hundred  years  old.  I  feel  now  like  I  could 
paraphrase  the  saying  of  Simeon  of  old  when  he  had  witnessed  the 
child  Jesus  brought  into  the  temple  at  Jerusalem.  He  said,  "Lord,  now 
lettest  thou  thy  servant  depart  in  peace,  for  mine  eyes  have  seen 
thy  salvation." 

I  have  been  permitted  to  live  to  see  this  day,  and  to  participate  in 
this  glorious  Conference  at  the  end  of  one  hundred  years  of  the 
existence  of  the  Church,  of  which  I  became  a  member  when  I  was  eight 
years  old.  I  may  explain  that  my  parents  were  among  the  first  converts 
to  the  restored  Gospel  in  that  little  country,  Denmark,  situated  in  the 
far-off  north,  toward  the  north  pole.  Being  trained  by  my  parents 
in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  I  was  baptized  when  I  was  old  enough 
to  be  admitted  to  membership  in  the  Church. 

I  came  to  this  land  when  I  was  fifteen  years  of  age.  From  the 
time  I  was  first  able  to  read  I  became  a  student  of  Church  history,  and 
as  a  boy  I  read  extracts  from  the  history  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
as  they  were  published  semi-monthly  in  "Skandinaviens  Stjerne,"  the 
Church  organ  of  the  Scandinavian  Mission,  and  have  been  a  student  of 
Church  history,  from  that  time  until  the  present.  When  I  arrived  in 
Utah,  nineteen  years  after  the  original  pioneers  of  Utah — after  walking 
all  the  way  across  the  plains  from  the  Missouri  River — I  found  that 
besides  killing  snakes  and  building  bridges,  I,  as  one  of  foreign  birth, 
had  many  things  to  learn,  among  which  was  the  acquiring  of  a  knowledge 
of  the  English  language.  And  not  only  did  I  have  to  study  the  language 
of  my  adopted  country,  but  also  the  customs  and  habits  of  a  new 
country.  The  Lord,  however,  was  with  me.  I  took  hold  of  the  task 
and  did  the  best  I  could  under  the  circumstances.  After  I  had  been 
here  for  some  time  I  began  to  move  about  somewhat  freely,  with  the 
English  language  moderately  at  my  command.  Then  it  dawned  upon 
me  that  as  I  had  been  interested  in  the  history  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
and  the  history  of  the  Church  generally  in  my  boyhood  days  in  my  native 
land,  perhaps  it  would  be  a  blessing  for  my  country  people  to  read 
the  story  of  the  great  man  and  prophet  who  was  the  founder  of  this 
Church.   And  it  became  my  privilege  to  write  a  brief  history  of  Joseph 


ISO 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  to  assist  in  publishing  the  first  book  that  was 
ever  printed  in  Utah  in  the  Danish-Norwegian  language.  That  was 
the  history  of  Joseph  Smith,  in  book  form,  issued  even  before  a  work 
of  that  kind  was  ever  published  by  the  Church  in  the  English  language. 
Prior  to  that  time  the  Prophet's  history  had  appeared  in  serial  form 
in  the  columns  of  the  early  volumes  of  the  "Deseret  News"  and  the 
"Millennial  Star." 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  travel  extensively  in  many  lands  and 
climes  in  the  interest  of  Church  history.  I  am  exceedingly  thankful 
to  President  Grant  for  the  few  words  of  commendation  he  gave  me  in 
introducing  me  to  this  great  congregation.  I  have  sometimes  been  at 
a  loss  to  know  exactly  where  I  stood  in  the  estimation  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  because  I  have  for  many  years  been  engaged 
in  a  labor  that  is  perhaps  only  appreciated  by  a  few  and  not  by  the 
masses  of  the  people.  It  has  been  my  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  travel  something  like  495,000  miles  in  the  interest  of  Church  history 
and  as  a  missionary  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to  visit  all  the 
missions  of  the  Church  excepting  one,  namely  the  South  African 
Mission.  When  I  traveled  around  the  world  for  the  first  time,  there 
was  none  of  our  missionaries  in  South  Africa,  and  consequently  I  did 
not  go  there. 

In  my  historical  studies  and  researches  I  soon  learned  that  history 
is  made  up  mainly  from  the  acts  of  men  and  women,  and  that  those 
who  become  converts  to  the  true  Gospel  of  Christ  and  are  baptized,  are 
organized,  as  a  rule,  into  branches  of  the  Church  and  that  these  branches 
are  generally  grouped  into  conferences,  districts  or  missions.  At  home, 
the  members  of  the  Church,  as  we  all  understand,  are  grouped  into 
wards,  and  the  wards  in  turn  are  grouped  into  stakes  of  Zion.  I  have 
become  convinced  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  anyone  to  write  a 
true  and  detailed  history  of  the  Church  as  a  whole,  without  a  knowledge 
also  of  the  history  of  the  various  branches,  conferences,  districts, 
missions,  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion ;  this  means  a  history  of  the 
settlements  of  the  saints  in  their  gathering  places,  as  well  as  histories 
of  the  missions  and  their  subdivisions  abroad ;  hence  the  necessity  of 
extensive  travels  to  read  the  sources  of  first-hand  information. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  be  a  field  man,  gathering  historical 
data,  most  of  my  life,  and  in  going  into  all  parts  of  the  world,  to  follow 
in  the  tracks  of  missionaries  who  were  laborers  in  the  vineyard  before 
me,  to  find  out  what  they  had  done,  gather  up  historical  threads  and 
weave  them  into  history. 

After  my  long  experience,  I  think  that  I  am  at  liberty  to  say,  from 
what  I  actually  know,  that  there  is  no  community  at  present  in  America 
or  in  any  other  part  of  the  world  that  can  consistently  boast  of  so 
accurate  a  history  of  their  movements  and  operations  as  can  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  By  making  this  statement,  I  refer  particularly  to 
the  history  of  our  settlements  and  our  missions.  It  has  been  my  lot 
to  visit  nearly  "every  nook  and  corner"  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  and 
all  the  gathering  places  of  the  saints  in  the  Great  West,  from  Canada 


ELDER  ANDREW  J  EN  SON 


151 


in  the  north  to  Mexico  in  the  south,  besides  visiting  the  so-called  "waste 
places  of  Zion"  in  the  East  repeatedly.  In  my  extensive  travels,  I  have 
ever  endeavored  to  gather  historical  data,  and  from  my  field  notes  I 
have  written  and  compiled  some  six  hundred  manuscript  volumes 
containing  Church  history  in  general,  and  histories  of  our  missions  and 
stakes,  with  their  subdivisions,  in  detail,  and  also  histories  of  the 
different  auxiliary  organizations  of  the  Church,  both  at  home  and 
abroad. 

I  have  aged  and  my  hair  has  turned  gray,  as  you  can  see,  while 
dedicating  my  best  efforts  to  this  work.  Mormonism,  however,  means 
everything"  to  me.  I,  together  with  so  many  others,  was  brought  to 
this  land  through  the  use  of  certain  keys  of  the  holy  priesthood  which 
were  restored  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  Kirtland  temple 
on  that  memorable  third  day  of  April,  1836,  when,  among  others,  Moses 
appeared  and  committed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  keys  for  the 
gathering  of  Israel.  That  accounts  for  the  fact  that  about  one-fifth 
of  the  entire  Church  membership  are  converts  or  descendants  of  those 
who  hail  from  the  Scandinavian  countries,  commencing  with  the  fruits 
of  the  labors  of  Erastus  Snow  and  those  who  came  with  him  to  the 
north  countries  in  1850.  In  listening  to  these  missionaries  from  Zion, 
the  blood  of  Israel  in  our  veins  asserted  itself,  for  that  blood  is  to  a 
very  great  extent  represented  among  the  inhabitants  of  those  lands ; 
and  so,  when  Erastus  Snow  and  his  fellow-missionaries  testified  of  the 
restored  Gospel,  a  response  was  awakened  in  our  hearts,  telling  us  that 
we  too  were  of  the  house  of  Israel.  We  seemed  to  listen  to  a  familiar 
voice,  which  we  understood  and  obeyed,  for  it  was  the  voice  of  the 
true  shepherd  which  the  sheep  recognized;  and  therefore  we  are  here 
today.  Israel  in  other  nations  has  had  a  similar  experience  and  thus 
a  multitude  of  nations  are  represented  in  our  glorious  pageant  which  is 
now  being  given  in  this  spacious  tabernacle. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  that  I  would  like  to  devote  the  balance 
of  my  time  to  completing  the  work  to  which  I  have  devoted  most  of 
my  life,  because  it  is  not  yet  completed;  and  if  President  Grant  and 
my  superiors  in  the  priesthood  will  allow  me  to  have  "free  rein"  and 
back  me  in  my  labors,  I  promise  that  I  shall  continue  my  loyalty  to  the 
Church  and  to  the  priesthood  and  put  forth  the  best  there  is  in  me  as 
long  as  I  dwell  in  mortality,  to  this  end. 

There  are  many  things  that  a  real  historian  can  see  and  understand 
which  perhaps  are  not  generally  seen  and  comprehended  by  his  con- 
temporaries, but  which  will  be  better  understood  and  appreciated  by 
future  generations — perhaps  hundreds  of  years  hence.  Some  of  us, 
Pioneers  in  new  fields,  must  necessarily  live  ahead  of  our  time,  in  order 
to  accomplish  work  in  the  interest  of  yet  unborn  millions. 

May  God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  help  us  to  be 
faithful  and  true  to  whatever  positions  in  the  Church  we  have  been 
called,  or  may  hereafter  be  called  to  occupy,  as  we  sojourn  in  the  midst 
of  the  saints  of  the  most  high  God.  May  God  help  us  to  be  satisfied 
with  our  lot  and  positions,  if  we  can  be  convinced  that  we  are  where 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


God  wants  us  to  be,  and  where  we  can  be  of  the  best  use  to  our  fellow- 
men,  according  to  the  strength  and  ability  with  which  we  have  been 
endowed.  We  may  not  always  be  in  the  limelight,  or  be  engaged  in 
work  that  at  once  is  understood  and  recognized,  but  if  we  are  doing 
that  which  our  Heavenly  Father  has  designed  us  to  do  while  we 
dwell  in  mortality,  we  should  be  thankful  and  satisfied.  These,  at  least, 
are  my  sentiments,  and  by  them  and  by  my  reverence  for  God  and 
his  cause  I  am  encouraged  and  strengthened  in  my  endeavors  to 
faithfully  and  diligently  discharge  the  duties  pertaining  to  the  work 
that  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  do  in  life. 

May  God  bless  each  and  every  one  of  us,  who  are  members  of  the 
Church,  to  be  faithful  and  true  to  our  God,  to  our  religion,  to  the 
priesthood,  to  our  co-religionists  and  to  our  fellowmen  in  general ; 
and  may  we  have  the  desire  and  ability  to  honor  any  and  every  position 
in  which  we  may  be  placed,  and  successfully  carry  the  responsibilities 
entrusted  to  us,  is  my  sincere  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  rendered  the  anthem,  "Cast  thy  burden  upon  the  Lord." 
Elder  William  T.  Jack  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  Wed- 
nesday afternoon,  April  9th. 

Practically  every  seat  in  the  great  auditorium  and  galleries  of  the 
Tabernacle  was  occupied. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  Ogden  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  leadership  of  Lestei 
Hinchcliff,  furnished  the  music  for  this  session. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "For  the  strength  of 
the  hills  we  bless  thee." 

Elder  J.  Robert  Price,  President  of  the  Maricopa  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  anthem,  "Hallelujah,  O  praise  ye  the  Lord,"  was  rendered  by 
the  choir. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  very  much  appreciate  the  audience  we  have  here  today.  I  am  very 
pleased  indeed  that  our  building  is  practically  full  at  the  last  session 
of  the  conference.  As  a  rule  when  we  have  held  our  closing  session 
on  a  week  day  there  have  been  a  great  many  empty  benches. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


153 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

About  one  year  after  the  organization  of  the  Church,  in  a  revelation 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said: 

"And  even  so  I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into  the  world,  to  be 
a  light  to  the  world,  and  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people,  and  for  the  Gentiles 
to  seek  to  it,  and  to  be  a  messenger  before  my  face  to  prepare  the  way  before 
me. 

"Wherefore,  come  ye  unto  it,  and  with  him  that  cometh  I  will  reason  as  with 
men  in  days  of  old,  and  I  will  show  unto  you  my  strong  reasoning."  , 

"Wherefore,  hearken  ye  together  and  let  me  show  unto  you  even  my 
wisdom— the  wisdom  of  him  whom  ye  say  is  the  God  of  Enoch,  and  his  brethren." 

From  the  testimonies  that  have  been  borne  during  this  conference, 
ample  evidence  has  been  offered  to  show  that  the  Lord  has  fulfilled  in 
part  at  least  this  promise,  that  in  the  establishment  of  his  Church  he 
was  establishing  a  standard  for  his  people  to  seek  unto  and  that  would 
also  attract  the  attention  of  the  world. 

AN  IMPORTANT  PERIOD 

My  soul  rejoices  with  my  brethren  and  sisters  who  have  spoken 
during  this  great  conference,  for  this  glorious  day,  and  I  have  lifted 
up  my  heart  in  praise  and  adoration  of  the  Almighty  for  his  goodness 
to  give  me  life  in  this  time.  Had  I  been  given  the  privilege  to  choose 
any  period  of  all  the  glorious  past  I  would  prefer  to  be  upon  the  earth 
today,  in  the  year  1930,  rather  than  any  other  period  the  world  has  ever 
known,  because  I  believe  we  are  at  the  dawn  of  far  more  glorious 
things  than  have  ever  been  known  in  the  history  of  all  the  glorious  past. 

TESTIMONIES  REGARDING  OUR  STANDARDS 

Men  are  bearing  witness  to  the  value  of  the  standards  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Many  quotations  have  been  made  during  this 
conference  from  eminent  authorities  who  have  been  making  a  study  of 
the  lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  want  to  add  one  from  a  critic 
who  has  already  been  quoted  by  one  of  the  brethren,  and  who,  not- 
withstanding his  criticism,  acknowledges  as  he  examines  the  rise  of 
various  churches  in  America  that  of  all  of  them  there  is  only  one  that 
has  succeeded.  And  he  asks  why  has  this  one  succeeded  when  others 
have  failed  ?   He  answers  : 

"Mormonism  is  the  American  mind  at  last  hitting  on  the  solution.  The 
solution  is,  briefly,  a  co-operation  of  energized  believers  working  in  the  name 
of  God  for  an  earthly  kingdom  that  will  persist  into  eternity.  In  the  half 
century  before  the  Civil  War  America  was  frecked  with  experimental  societies 
struggling  to  find  this  formula.    Mormonism  found  it  and  has  endured." 

Testimonies  of  men  who  are  observing  us  indicate  that  not  only 
are  our  standards  appealing  to  members  of  the  Church,  but  to  those 
who  are  not  of  us.  In  the  establishment  of  this  work  the  Lord 
declared  that  only  the  truth  could  survive,  and.  that  everything  that 
could  be  shaken  would  be  shaken. 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CHURCH  PROGRESS  IN  AGE  OF  GREATEST  ENLIGHTENMENT 

In  looking  into  some  late  government  statistics  I  observe  that  of 
the  twenty-three  leading  denominations  in  the  United  States  six  of 
them  in  the  period  of  the  last  ten  years  have  shown  a  loss  in  membership, 
and  of  the  twenty-three  not  one  of  them  shows  a  greater  percentage 
of  growth  than  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
While  it  is  computed  that  there  are  twenty-five  thousand  vacant  Pro- 
testant churches  in  the  United  States,  this  Church  has  been  through  its 
greatest  building  program  in  the  period  of  the  last  three  years.  It 
is  marvelous  when  we  think  of  it  also  happening  in  the  age  of  the 
world's  greatest  enlightenment.  That  inspired  document  which  Pres- 
ident Grant  read,  the  utterances  of  the  First  Presidency,  called  our 
attention  to  the  marvelous  changes  that  have  occurred  in  the  period 
of  one  hundred  years.  Man's  manner  of  thought,  of  travel,  every  phase 
of  human_actiyity,  has  been  so  touched  by  the  inventions  of  science, 
that  we  live  in  a  marvelous  age.  More  light  and  knowledge  has  come 
into  the  world  during  this  period  of  one  hundred  years  than  all  the 
ages  of  time  combined  preceding  it.  And  in  the  light  of  all  this  blaze 
of  knowledge  Mormonism  thrives  and  flourishes  as  never  before.  The 
greatest  ally  the  Mormon  Church  has  is  modern  science. 

GOSPEL  TRUTHS  HARMONIZE  WITH  SCIENTIFIC  TRUTHS 

We  have  no  quarrel  with  any  of  the  truths  of  science.  We  have 
perhaps  still  some  dispute  with  some  of  the  theories  of  men  who  are 
attempting  to  support  their  theories  by  the  application  of  scientific 
truths,  but  we  have  no  quarrel  with  the  truths  of  science.  They  stand 
in  perfect  harmony  with  the  truths  of  this  restored  Gospel,  and  all 
truth  naturally  will  be  akin  and  united.  Each  truth,  whether  it  comes 
from  science  or  from  religion,  will  be  united  harmoniously  together. 
And  then  when  I  think  of  this  great  flood  of  light  and  truth,  I  aski 
why  did  this  come  into  the  world  in  this  age?  Were  there  not  wise 
men  before  1830?  Were  there  not  great  characters  who  have  appeared 
upon  the  pages  of  history,  and  yet  they  were  not  able  to  solve  the 
mysteries,  unlock  the  door,  and  bring  to  light  the  wonderful  things 
that  this  age  has  known?  Why?  I  can  only  answer  with  simple, 
trusting,  faith  and  belief,  that  the  reason  this  flood  of  light  and  truth 
has  come  into  the  world  in  this  age  is  because  God  willed  it  so.  These 
great  truths  were  known  to  him.  Not  a  thing  that  man  knows  but  was 
known  of  God  long  beforehand.  The  secret  was  kept  until  the  day 
came  when  the  door  was  opened.  The  Spirit  of  God,  as  was  said  this 
morning,  has  been  poured  out  upon  all  flesh,  and  men  have  seen  visions 
and  have  dreamed  dreams  and  have  unlocked  the  mysteries  of  God 
and  have  brought  to  light  and  knowledge  these  marvelous  truths  that 
are  God's  means  of  helping  to  promote  the  establishment  of  his  religious 
truths  and  to  prepare  the  world  for  his  glorious  coming. 

God  is  not  only  moving  among  this  people,  but  he  is  operating 
among  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  rejoice  in  the  accomplishments  of 
the  past.    Our  fathers  and  mothers  have  stood  trials,  persecutions. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


155 


mob  violence,  and  difficulties,  the  like  of  which  perhaps  no  other 
age  has  known.  But  they  have  endured  it.  They  have  stood  like 
beaten  anvils  in  all  these  trials,  and  remained  true,  and  have  given  us 
a  Church  conceded  by  men  to  have  the  right  to  exist. 

THE  GLORIOUS  FUTURE 

Now  what  shall  we  do?  Our  sacred  duty  is  to  stand  by  the  fires 
that  have  been  kindled,  keep  them  ablaze  that  they  shall  never  die,, 
that  they  shall  never  perish.  This  is  the  glorious  age  of  truth.  There 
are  yet  conflicts  that  will  go  forward.  Battles?  Yes,  struggles.  But 
in  the  finality  of  each  struggle  there  shall  come  the  day  of  the  triumph 
of  truth.  For  this  is  the  age  when  truth  shall  be  triumphant  and 
victorious,  error,  darkness  and  superstition,  whether  in  the  Church  or 
in  the  state,  shall  perish,  for  this  is  the  age  for  the  triumph  of  truth, 
and  I  rejoice  in  it. 

As  I  look  f  orward  to  the  future,  glorious  as  the  past  has  been,  I  see 
more  glorious  things  before  us.  You  sons  and  daughters  of  Joseph 
who  was  sold  into  Egypt,  driven  out  from  the  midst  of  his  brethren — 
in  his  isolation  God  was  with  him  and  raised  him  up  to  be  the  Savior 
of  the  whole  house  of  Israel — so  you  children  of  Israel,  you  Latter-day 
Saints,  sons  of  Joseph  and  of  Ephraim,  though  you  too  were  cast  into 
the  wilderness,  driven  away,  in  your  isolation  God  has  been  with  you. 
He  is  preparing  to  bring  you  out  of  your  isolation,  even  as  he  did 
Joseph,  to  glorify  you  and  to  make  you  the  saviors  of  the  whole  house 
of  Israel,  the  light  of  the  world. 

THE  TIMES  OF  THE  GENTILES 

In  the  document  President  Grant  read,  you  listened  to  the  scripture 
from  the  forty-fifth  section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
wherein  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  promises  that  though  Israel  was  widely 
scattered  she  should  be  gathered  again.  But  the  statement  is  made  that 
Israel,  so  far  as  the  Jews  were  concerned,  were  to  remain  in  theiir 
scattered  condition  until  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  are  fulfilled,  and 
that  the  times  of  the  Gentiles  began  with  the  dawn  of  this  Gospel 
dispensation,  and  that  that  generation  should  see  the  close  of  the  times 
of  the  Gentiles.  'What  follows  afterwards  ?  I  am  not  able  to  determine 
the  exact  hour  or  period,  but  we  have  concluded  from  our  Book  of 
Mormon  method  that  a  generation  is  approximately  one  hundred  years. 
It  may  be  more.  But  we  have  every  reason  to  believe  that  we  are 
coming  to  the  close  of  the  period  of  the  times  of  the  Gentiles,  and  then 
dawns  a  new  day.  It  does  not  imply  that  the  Gospel  shall  necessarily 
be  taken  from  the  Gentile  nations ;  it  may  remain  there,  and  shall  until 
all  who  are  among  them  of  Israel  shall  be  gathered  up  and  until  our 
work  is  accomplished  among  them.    Then  cometh  the  day  of  Israel. 

The  Lord  said,  through  Luke,  that  the  Jews  should  fall  by  the 
edge  of  the  sword  and  should  be  led  away  captive  into  all  nations,  and 
that  Jerusalem  should  be  trodden  down  by  the  Gentiles  until  the  times 
of  the  Gentiles  is  fulfilled.    Jerusalem  was  trodden  down  until  General 


156 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Allenby's  army  marched  into  Jerusalem  and  broke  the  power  that  had 
ruled  over  the  land  and  the  destinies  of  that  people  for  ages. 

THE  DAY  OF  ISRAEL 

And  I  cannot  help  but  believe  that  God  is  working  with  the  rulers 
of  nations,  even  the  rulers  of  Great  Britain,  for  they  were  inspired  to 
name  a  Jew,  Dr.  Samuels,  as  the  first  ruler  in  nearly  two  thousand 
years,  who  has  had  authority  and  dominion  over  the  Holy  Land,  who 
is  a  descendant  of  those  to  whom  God  gave  the  land  originally.  This 
all  indicates  that  the  time  has  come  for  this  branch  of  the  house  of 
Israel.  Their  day  is  at  hand.  Many  years  ago  while  doing  missionary 
work  in  Montana  I  was  given  to  understand  by  the  whispering  of  the 
Spirit,  as  I  wondered  why  the  Lamanites  had  not  been  brought  into 
the  Church  at  an  earlier  period — the  Lord  made  known  to  me  that 
there  were  many  things  that  he  had  to  do  for  them  before  they  were 
prepared  to  accept  the  Gospel  message.  I  believe  that  the  things  the 
Lord  had  in  mind  are  being  accomplished  and  that  their  day  dawns 
also.  I  was  impressed  with  it  on  that  memorable  Christmas  morning  in 
1925  in  South  America  when  Brother  Wells,  Brother  Pratt  and  I  knelt 
in  that  beautiful  grove  of  weeping  willow  trees  on  the  banks  of  the 
Rio  de  la  Plata  and  dedicated  the  land  for  the  spreading  of  the  Gospel, 
and  the  Spirit  of  the  Almighty  was  upon  us.  We  were  made  to  know 
that  the  Gospel  message  would  find  thousands  who  had  the  blood  of 
Israel  in  their  veins  in  South  America.  Then  we  saw  the  day  when 
it  would  go  to  the  fifteen  million  of  Father  Lehi's  children  who  are  in 
that  land,  and  that  the  .shackles,  politically,  would  be  broken,  the  day 
of  retribution  would  come,  the  day  of  deliverance,  and  that  they 
would  come  into  a  full  realization  of  the  promises  of  the  Almighty. 
For,  for  that  very  purpose,  we  read  in  the  third  section  of  the  book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  was  the  Book  of  Mormon  given,  to  bring  them, 
the  Lamanites,  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth. 

THE  LAND  OF  ZION 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  God  is  moving  in  South  America,  and 
that  the  day  will  come  when  it  will  be  as  the  prophet  declared,  a  land 
of  Zion — yes,  the  land  of  Zion  for  this  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel ; 
while  North  America  becomes  the  land  of  Zion  to  Joseph's  children  of 
Ephraim.  And  God  will  move  the  leaders  of  the  nations  to  prepare 
the  way  for  it  all. 

CHURCH  AND  STATE 

The  great  struggle  for  religious  liberty  that  is  going  on  in  Mexico 
is  also  on  in  South  America.  Within  the  last  five  years  two  great  nations 
have  established  absolute  separation  of  Church  and  state,  and  others  are 
struggling  to  that  end.  It  will  come.  No  power  can  stay  it.  The 
theory  that  the  great  dominant  church  there  has,  that  its  head  has 
the  right  to  rule  over  the  Church  and  state,  (and  within  the  last  year 
he  has  ascended  unto  that  position,  wherein  he  is  now  king  and  also  the 
head  of  the  church)  is  not  the  spirit  of  the  democracy  of  South  America, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


157 


nor  is  it  the  spirit  of  the  democracy  of  North  America  or  Mexico. 
It  may  be  a  lingering  symbol  of  that  which  was  once  in  Europe,  but  that 
order  of  things  cannot  live  in  this  land,  for  this  is  the  age  of  the, 
separation  of  the  Church  and  the  state.  Yes,  there  will  come  a  time 
when  it  shall  be  united  again,  but  not  under  any  earthly  man.  I  believe 
that  the  Lord  God  Almighty  is  working  not  only  in  this  Church  but  in 
this  nation.  Yes,  this  is  the  beginning  of  the  realization  of  Daniel's 
dream.  But  I  firmly  believe  too  that  God,  as  our  scriptures  very  clearly 
teach,  both  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
raised  up  this  mighty  nation  of  the  Gentiles,  and  that  his  hand  has 
been  in  it.  He  was  with  the  patriot  fathers  who  laid  its  foundation. 
He  sustained  them  in  their  struggles.  He  was  with  Lincoln.  He  has 
carried  the  work  on  by  his  power,  and  men  have  acknowledged  God 
as  the  King  of  the  land.  And  so  I  believe  when  he  comes  whose  right 
it  is  to  rule  and  reign  he  will  come  as  King  of  kings,  and  that  is 
politically,  and  that  he  will  be  Lord  of  lords,  and  that  is  in  his  Church. 
I  believe  that  when  he  comes  to  rule  and  reign  there  will  be  a  union 
of  Church  and  state  under  him  whose  right  it  is  to  rule  and  reign. 
But  never  has  that  right  been  given  to  a  mortal  man. 

We  are  going  forward  in  preparation  for  that  time.  This  great 
government  is  going  forward  in  its  holy  mission  to  establish  the 
principles  of  righteousness  in  government.  It  is  God's  work.  It  is 
rolling  forth  and  it  is  teaching  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  preparing 
them  for  the  order  of  things  when  he  shall  come.  It  was  but  a  prophecy 
of  that  which  in  time  will  be,  when  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  rode  into 
Jerusalem  as  a  king.  They  strewed  their  palm  branches  and  hailed  him 
king.  That  is  what  he  shall  be  when  he  comes  to  rule  and  reign,  and 
the  people  shall  accept  him  and  be  glad  for  his  coming. 

god's  purposes  to  be  fulfilled  IN  RUSSIA 

I  am  sure  also  that  God  is  moving  in  Russia.  Much  as  we  are 
disturbed  over  the  tyranny  and  the  oppression  that  is  waged  against 
religion  in  that  land  today,  it  is  not  a  new  thing,  for  that  has  been  the 
order  for  ages.  But  I  oan  see  God  moving  also  in  preparing  the 
way  for  other  events  that  are  to  come.  The  field  that  has  gone  to 
wild  oats  needs  to  be  plowed  up  and  harrowed  and  prepared  for  a  new 
seed.  So  in  Russia.  It  may  seem  appalling  to  us,  but  it  is  God  breaking 
up  and  destroying  an  older  order  of  things,  and  the  process  will  be 
the  accomplishment  of  God's  purposes  within  a  very  short  period  of 
time,  which  normally  may  have  taken  generations.  But  that  people 
will  come  back,  for  I  bear  witness  that  there  are  thousands  of  the  blood 
of  Israel  in  that  land,  and  God  is  preparing  the  way  for  them. 

SAVIORS  OF  THE  HOUSE  OF  ISRAEL 

Yes,  our  cousins,  the  Jews,  whom  we  have  sympathized  with,  whom 
we  have  loved  from  the  beginning  of  this  Gospel  dispensation — whether 
you  know  it  or  not  God  is  moving  in  your  interest.  This  work  is  the 
hub  and  the  center  about  which  all  the  great  movements  are  going 
forward  among  the  nations  of  the  earth.   God  is  in  it  and  it  will  triumph, 


158 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  the  Liatter-day  Saints  will  come  out  of  their  isolation  and  become 
the  saviors  of  the  whole  house  of  Israel ;  not  so  much  to  feed  them 
bread  as  Joseph  did,  but  a  more  precious  bread,  the  bread  of  life,  the 
spiritual  things  that  are  of  greater  value. 

THE  ACCOMPLISHMENT  OF  GOD'S  PURPOSES 

I  bear  witness  to  you  Latter-day  Saints  that  all  we  need  to  do  is  to 
keep  the  commandments  of  God.  His  promise  was  that  if  we  would 
listen  to  his  counsels  we  would  never  cease  to  prevail  until  the 
kingdoms  of  the  world  were  subjugated  under  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ; 
and  the  earth  will  be  given  to  the  saints  and  those  who  are  worthy 
of  it,  to  possess  it  forever  and  forever.  All  we  need  to  do  is  to  adhere 
to  our  teachings,  and  these  standards  of  living  will  solve  every 
problem  that  now  vexes  the  world.  In  our  making  progress  let  us  not 
lose  sight  of  the  goal,  neither  become  discouraged.  We  are  about 
to  enter  into  a  new  era,  a  new  period,  more  glorious,  more  wonderful. 
All  we  need  to  do  is  to  serve  God  and  we  shall  see  his  salvation  going 
forward  to  the  accomplishment  of  his  holy  purposes,  for  Zion  shall 
arise  and. shine,  and  the  ends  of  the  earth  shall  come  unto  her  to  learn 
of  her  ways  and  walk  in  her  paths,  for  she  is  destined  to  be  the  light 
of  the  world.  I  know  it  and  bear  witness  of  it,  and  ask  God  to  send 
us  home  rededicating  our  lives  and  all  that  we  have  to  keep  the  fires 
burning,  to  carry  on  and  be  prepared  when  God  is  ready  for  the  con- 
summation of  his  holy  purposes. 

DEAD  BUT  NOT  SILENCED 

We  sorrow  at  the  necessity  of  the  death  of  the  Prophet,  but  we 
glory  that  he  was  willing  to  die  and  did  die  a  martyr  and  sealed  his  testi- 
mony with  his  blood.  It  was  undoubtedly  essential.  As  has  been  said  by 
an  eminent  authority  who  has  written  a  life  of  Christ,  "We  lend  ears 
only  to  voices  which  cry  out  from  the  tombs,  and  reserve  our  scanty 
capacity  for  reverence  for  those  whom  we  have  assassinated.  The 
only  truths  that  remain  in  the  fleeting  memory  of  the  human  race 
are  those  written  in  blood.  All  the  prophets  who  have  ever  spoken 
upon  the  earth  were  insulted  by  men,  and  men  will  insult  those  who 
are  yet  to  come.  We  can  recognize  prophets  by  this:  that  smeared 
with  mud  and  covered  with  shame  they  passed  among  men,  bright- 
faced,  speaking  out  what  was  in  their  hearts.  No  mud  can  close  the 
lips  of  those  who  must  speak,  even  if  the  obstinate  prophet  is  killed. 
They  cannot  silence  him.  His  voice,  multiplied  by  the  echoes  of  his 
death,  will  be  heard  in  all  languages  and  through  all  the  centuries  that 
are  to  come." 

God  vindicate  his  truth,  as  I  am  sure  he  will,  and  keep  us  worthy 
to  be  in  the  ranks  of  the  victorious  in  the  greater  day  that  is  to  come, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR   YOUNG  159 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
Temple  Block  Mission 

I  am  happy  to  be  present  at  this  meeting  after  my  lectures  at  the 
University  of  Utah  today.  We  have  registered  at  the  State  institution 
over  three  thousand  of  the  youth  of  the  State ;  and  I  have  a  pride  in  the 
boys  and  girls,  for  they  have  faith  in  life;  they  have  their  dreams  and 
hopes,  and  they  will  develop  into  fine  citizens  and  will  carry  on  the  in- 
stitutions of  civilization  which  their  fathers  and  mothers  have  founded. 
They  will  learn  as  we  all  learn  that  they  will  not  go  far  without  being 
brought  face  to  face  with  the  commanding  figure  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  They  will  see  the  Creator  of  divine  life  in  him ; 
a  truth  that  is  linking  together  the  peoples  of  the  world  into  an  immortal 
purpose. 

In  this  day  of  mad  rush  and  strife ;  when  noise  and  glitter  influence 
the  human  mind ;  this  mighty  rushing  to  and  fro ;  this  clash  of  many 
strifes ;  this  feverish  hastening  towards  some  unknown  goal ;  Jesus 
Christ  gives  the  intelligible  answer  in  revealing  the  infinite  possibilities 
of  the  human  soul.  The  leaven  of  his  doctrine  is  ever  working  in  the 
social  body  of  which  we  are  part,  and  his  influence  leads  the  van  in 
every  forward  movement  for  the  welfare  of  mankind.  It  is  a  plain  fact 
of  history  that  the  influence  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  world  has  opened 
up  vast  tracks  of  spiritual  opportunity  of  which  the  wisest  men  have 
never  dreamed.  He  has  uplifted  and  enriched  the  common  life;  he  has 
filled  the  soul  with  immortal  hope.  He  has  brought  peace  to  the  deso- 
late heart ;  he  has  made  the  quest  for  truth  a  divine  adventure.  He  has 
made  known  the  abiding  joy  of  service  for  others;  and  most  of  all  he 
has  justified  the  upward  reach  of  man,  as  he  struggles  from  lower  to 
higher  things,  which  shows  that  Christ  brings  life  and  light  into  the 
hearts  of  men. 

"Blessed  are  they  who  do  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness,  for 
they  shall  be  filled."  These  are  the  words  of  our  blessed  Savior;  and 
as  you  think  of  them,  you  will  recall  the  wonderful  discourse  of  Jesus 
with  the  woman  of  Samaria  by  Jacob's  well.  He  tells  the  woman  about 
the  "living  water,"  which  he  can  give  to  all  who  ask  for  it.  "Whoso- 
ever drinketh  of  this  water  shall  thirst  again  .  .  .  but  the  water  I  shall 
give  him  shall  be  a  well  of  water,  springing  up  into  everlasting  life." 
These  words  are  life-giving  to  us  all ;  and  when  I  think  of  them,  I  think 
of  the  ideals  we  are  standing  for  today. 

We  have  with  us  on  this  great  occasion  Miss  Ruth  Pyrtle,  head  of 
the  National  Educational  Association,  who  will  be  introduced  to  you 
by  President  Grant.  I  should  like  to  say  to  Miss  Pyrtle  that  we  hold 
sacred  above  all  else  the  names  of  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Lord  and  Savior.  It  was  Jesus  who  taught :  "Blessed  are  the  poor  in 
spirit,  for  theirs  is  the  kingdom  of  heaven."  The  doctrines  of  Christ 
are  the  living  waters  of  our  lives.  God  be  praised  for  them.  May  we 
appreciate  them. 


160 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


As  I  contemplate  them,  I  think  of  many  of  the  world's  great  his- 
torical movements,  among  which  are  the  establishment  of  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States  and  later  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  the  establishment  of  his  Church  by  divine  authority. 
Then  the  gift  to  the  world  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  is  a  history  of 
the  religious  development  of  ancient  Israel  on  the  American  continent, 
and  is  a  holy  book. 

First,  as  to  the  government  of  the  United  States.  Our  govern- 
ment was  founded  by  inspiration,  and  the  constitution  of  the  United 
States  was  written  as  an  expression  of  the  freedom  of  the  ages;  a 
freedom  that  had  been  worked  out  and  bled  for  by  a  people  who  looked 
always  to  God. 

When  the  Pilgrim  fathers  first  set  foot  on  the  soil  of  America,  they 
wrote  this  divine  statement  concerning  their  object  and  ideals  of  gov- 
ernment. 

"In  the  Name  of  God,  Amen.   We,  whose  names  are  under  written,  the  loyal 

subjects  of  our  dread  Sovereign,  King  James,  by  the  grace  of  God,  Great  Britain, 
France,  and  Ireland,  King,  Defender  of  the  Faith,  etc. 

"Having  undertaken  for  the  glory  of  God,  and  advancement  of  the  Christian 
faith,  and  the  honor  of  our  king  and  countrie,  a  voyage  to  plant  the  first  colonies 
in  the  northern  part  of  Virginia,  doe,  by  those  presents,  solemnly  and  mutually, 
in  the  presence  of  God,  and  one  of  another,  covenant  and  combine  ourselves  to- 
gether into  a  civil  body  politic,  for  our  better  ordering  and  preservation  and 
furtherance  of  the  ends  aforesaid ;  and  by  virtue  hereof,  to  enact,  constitute,  and 
frame  such  just  and  equal  laws,  ordinances,  acts,  constitutions,  offices,  from  time 
to  time  as  shall  be  thought  most  meet  and  convenient  for  the  general  good  of  the 
Colonic  Unto  which  we  promise  all  due  submission  and  obedience.  In  witness 
thereof,  we  have  here  unto  subscribed  our  names  at  Cape  Cod,  the  17th  of 
November,  in  the  year  of  the  reign  of  our  sovereigne  lord.  King  James  of  Eng- 
land, France,  and  Ireland  the  eighteenth,  and  Scotland  the  fifty-fourth,  Anno 
Domini,  1620." 

These  great  ideals,  the  Mormon  people  have  ever  striven  to 
live  up  to,  and  only  recently  has  a  noted  American  scholar  declared  that 
the  people  of  Utah — the  Mormons — stand  for  the  noblest  ideals  of  free 
government. 

Then  came  the  founding  of  the  government  of  the  United  States, 
the  culminating  event  in  a  sense  of  the  establishment  of  free  institu- 
tions. This  Government  was  founded  by  the  inspiration  of  God,  for 
the  founders  prayed  for  inspiration,  and  they  were  inspired.  When 
the  members  of  the  First  Continental  Congress  convened  at  Carpenters 
Hall  in  Philadelphia,  they  turned  to  God  for  divine  help.  The  Reverend 
Mr.  Duche  was  called  upon  to  pray  one  morning,  and  in  his  supplica- 
tions to  God,  he  said: 

"O  Lord,  our  Heavenly  Father,  high  and  mighty  King  of  Kings,  Lord  of 
Lords,  who  dost  from  Thy  throne  behold  all  the  dwellers  upon  the  earth,  and 
reignest  with  power  supreme  and  uncontrolled  over  all  kingdoms,  empires  and 
governments,  look  down  in  mercy,  we  beseech  Thee,  upon  these  American  States 
who  have  fled  to  Thee  from  the  rod  of  the  oppressor,  and  thrown  themselves  upon 
Thy  gracious  protection,  desiring  to  be  henceforth  dependent  only  upon  Thee. 

"To  Thee  have  they  appealed  for  the  righteousness  of  their  cause.  To  Thee 
do  they  now  look  up  for  that  countenance  and  support  which  Thou  alone  canst 
give.    Take  them,  therefore,  Heavenly  Father,  under  Thy  nurturing  care.  Give 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


161 


them  wisdom  in  council  and  valor  in  the  field.  Defeat  the  malicious  designs  of 
our  cruel  adversaries.  Convince  them  of  the  unrighteousness  of  their  cause,  and 
if  they  still  persist  in  their  sanguinary  purpose,  O  let  the  voice  of  Thine  own 
unerring  justice,  sounding  in  their  hearts,  constrain  them  to  drop  their  weapons  of 
war  from  their  unnerved  hands  in  the  day  of  battle. 

"Be  Thou  present,  O  Lord  of  Wisdom,  and  direct  the  Council  of  the  hon- 
orable Assembly.  Enable  them  to  settle  things  upon  the  best  and  surest  founda- 
tion, that  the  scene  of  blood  may  speedily  be  closed ;  that  order,  harmony  and 
peace  may  effectually  be  restored,  and  truth  and  justice,  religion  and  piety,  pre- 
vail and  flourish  amongst  Thy  people. 

"Preserve  the  health  of  their  bodies,  the  vigor  of  their  minds.  Shower  down 
upon  them,  and  the  millions  they  here  represent,  such  temporal  blessings  as 
Thou  seest  expedient  for  them  in  this  world  and  crown  them  with  everlasting 
glory  in  the  world  to  come.  All  this  we  ask  in  the  name  and  through  the  merits 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Thy  Son,  our  Saviour.  Amen." 

After  we  gained  our  independence,  and  later  had  written  the  con- 
stitution of  the  United  States,  our  government  was  organized  with 
George  Washington  as  president  of  the  new  Republic.  With  the  advent 
of  the  government  of  the  United  States  came  many  new  movements  in 
the  history  of  mankind.  Upon  this  continent  was  found  a  people  whom 
Europeans  designated  as  Indians.  They  are  of  interest  to  us  in  that 
their  forebears  were  Jews  from  Jerusalem.  A  great  and  enlightened 
people  they  had  been,  and  on  this  continent  they  built  up  a  civilization 
which  today  is  the  wonder,  of  the  world.  According  to  Charles  Eastman, 
a  full  blooded  Sioux  Indian,  we  have  these  words  concerning  the  re- 
ligion of  the  Indians: 

"The  original  attitude  of  the  American  Indian  toward  the  Eternal,  the  'Great 
Mystery'  that  surrounds  and  embraces  us,  was  as  simple  as  it  was  exalted.  To 
him,  it  was  the  supreme  conception,  bringing  with  it  the  fullest  measure  of  joy 
and  satisfaction  possible  in  this  life.  The  worship  of  the  'Great  Mystery'  was 
silent,  solitary,  free  from  self-seeking.  It  was  silent  because  all  speech  is  of 
necessity  feeble  and  imperfect ;  therefore  the  souls  of  my  ancestors  ascended  to 
God  in  wordless  adoration.  .  .  .  Among  us  all  men  were  created  sons  of  God  and 
stood  erect,  as  conscious  of  their  divinity.  .  .  .  Being  a  natural  man,  the  Indian 
was  intensely  poetical. 

The  solitary  Communion  with  the  Unseen  which  was  the  highest  expression 
of  our  religious  life  is  partly  described  in  the  word  HAMBEDAY,  literally 
'Mysterious  feeling,'  which  has  been  variously  translated  as  'fasting'  and  'dream- 
ing.'   It  may  better  be  interpreted  as  'consciousness  of  the  divine.' 

"The  first  'Hambeday'  or  religious  retreat  marked  an  epoch  in  the  life  of 
the  youth,  which  may  be  compared  to  that  of  confirmation  or  conversion  in 
Christian  experience.  Having  first  prepared  himself  by  means  of  the  purifying 
vapor  bath,  and  cast  off  as  far  as  possible  all  human  or  fleshly  influences,  the 
young  man  sought  out  the  noblest  height,  the  most  commanding  summit  in  all 
the  surrounding  region. 

"Knowing  that  God  sets  no  value  on  material  things,  he  took  with  him  no 
offerings  or  sacrifices,  other  than  symbolic  objects,  such  as  paints  and  tobacco. 
He  appeared  before  the  Great  Mystery.  .  .  .  Sometimes  he  would  chant  a  hymn 
■without  words,  or  offer  the  ceremonial  pipe.  In  this  holy  trance  or  ecstasy,  the 
Indian  mystic  found  his  highest  happiness,  and  the  motive  power  of  his  existence. 

"Then  he  came  down  from  the  mountain  and  again  entered  the  vapor  bath 
to  prepare  himself  and  be  clean  before  he  met  his  fellow  men. 

"It  was  the  duty  of  the  parents  to  direct  their  children  and  to  assume  the 
priestly  power.  The  Indian  was  a  religious  man  from  birth.  It  was  supposed 
that  the  mother's  spiritual  influence  counted  for  most.  The  mother's  first  lessons 
were  Silence,  Love,  Reverence.    Later  she  added  generosity,  courage,  chastity. 


162 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"As  a  child,"  says  Eastman,  "I  understood  how  to  give;  I  have  forgotten 
that  grace  since  I  became  civilized.  .  .  .  The  fruits  of  worship  are  Self  Control, 
True  Courage,  Endurance,  Patience,  Dignity,  and  Reverence.  'Guard  your  tongue 
i:i  youth'  said  the  old  Chief  Wabashaw. 

"The  moment  that  man  conceived  of  a  perfect  body,  supple,  symmetrical,  grace- 
ful, and  enduring — in  that  moment  he  had  laid  the  foundation  of  the  moral  life." 

The  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  great  event  in  his- 
tory, for  it  tells  about  the  religious  teachings  of  the  forefathers  of  the 
American  Indians.  It  is  a  book  of  holy  scriptures,  and  it  contains  the 
word  of  God  to  his  people.  Prophets  there  were  in  those  days,  and 
the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  that  these  divinely  and  inspired  men  taught 
the  Kingdom  of  God  and  its  Coming :  The  Fatherhovd  of  God  and  the 
infinite  Value  of  the  Human  Soul;  and  the  Higher  Righteousness  and  the 
Law  of  Love.  These  are  all  to  be  obtained  by  obeying  the  laws  and 
commandments  of  God,  which  are  fundamentally,  Faith  in  God  the  eter- 
nal father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost ;  the  prin- 
ciples of  repentance  and  holy  baptism  by  immersion  by  one  having  di- 
vine authority ;  and  the  conferring  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  hands  by  one  holding  the  Priesthood  of  God. 

So  we  are  this  day  celebrating  great  events  in  the  world's  history. 
The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  never  go  from  the  earth ;  it  is  safely 
lodged  in  the  hearts  of  men.  The  Gospel  will  save  the  world  from 
degradation  and  sorrow ;  from  wrong  and  ignorance.  Our  Government 
of  the  United  States  will  also  live.  It  has  already  been  an  inspiration 
to  the  world  in  ideals  of  liberty  and  freedom.  It  will  continue  to  be  so 
if  we  will  but  try  to  live  up  to  the  ideals  of  its  founders.  This  govern- 
ment says  to  all  peoples :  Come,  you  are  children  of  God.  Here  is  the 
world  of  God.  Enter.  There  shall  be  no  king;  no  subject;  no  master. 
There  shall  be  no  lord,  no  vassal.  All  are  free  to  worship  God  accord- 
ing to  the  dictates  of  conscience. 

One  hundred  years  ago,  a  celebrated  French  savant,  the  Abby 
Genty,  published  an  essay  on  the  Result  of  the  Discovery  of  America 
by  Europe.  The  essay  closes  with  the  words :  "The  independence  of 
the  Anglo-Americans  is  the  event  most  likely  to  accelerate  the  revolu- 
tion which  is  to  renew  the  happiness  of  the  world.  In  the  bosom  of  this 
new  nation  are  the  treasures  which  are  to  renew  the  world."  He  names 
the  relief  to  crowded  Europe  as  one  of  the  blessings  which  is  to  come 
to  mankind :  the  emancipation  of  slaves,  the  end  of  conquest ;  and  the 
conversion  of  the  world  to  Christianity. 

The  Abby  Genty  was  right.  Here  will  the  world  find  a  govern- 
ment of  the  people  and  for  their  eternal  good ;  here  will  people  look 
for  their  Zion — the  kingdom  of  righteousness.  The  day  may  be  far 
off ;  it  may  be  near ;  but  the  Zion  of  the  Lord  will  be  established  on  this 
continent,  and  the  kingdom  of  God  shall  reign  in  the  hearts  of  man. 
For  these  ideals  we  are  striving.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Wje  are  honored  in  having  with  us  today  Mrs.  Ruth  Pyrtle,  who 
is  the  head  of  the  National  Educational  Association  of  America.  I 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


163 


will  say  for  her  benefit  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been 
interested  in  education  Immediately  upon  arriving  here  the  early  pio- 
neers established  schools,  and  last  year  the  Church  expended  from  the 
tithes  of  the  people  on  education  alone  over  $918,000.  It  is  now  my 
great  pleasure  to  introduce  the  President  of  the  National  Educational 
Association. 

MISS  RUTH  PYRTLE 

President  of  the  National  Educational  Association 

President  Grant  and  friends :  I  assure  you  that  I  deem  it  a  great 
honor  and  privilege  to  be  invited  here  today,  an  honor  of  a  lifetime. 
Our  association  is  greatly  honored  in  that  you  let  me  come  here  as  a 
representative  of  that  great  association  and  bring  to  you,  this  educational 
body,  the  greetings  of  the  National  Educational  Association,  the  largest 
organization  of  teachers,  of  educators,  not  only  of  the  United  States 
but  of  the  world. 

I  have  listened  with  great  interest  this  afternoon  to  these  splendid 
addresses,  and  I  feel  quite  at  home,  because  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
work  of  this  hundredth  anniversary  meeting  and  the  purposes  that  this 
great  Church  has  had  all  through  the  years  are  common  with  the  rest 
of  the  people  of  the  world  who  are  working  for  the  progress  of  the 
human  family.  And  so  I  feel  like  addressing  you  for  a  moment  as 
educators,  because  that  is  what  we  all  are  if  we  are  measuring  up  to 
the  opportunities  and  responsibilities  which  God  has  given  us  as 
individuals  and  as  groups  in  a  community  wherever  it  is  our  privilege 
to  work. 

I  am  tremendously  interested  in  what  I  have  heard  expressed  here 
today,  showing  the  interest  of  this  great  Church  and  this  body  represent- 
ing the  Church,  in  the  international  point  of  view.  I  think  all  of  us 
recognize  as  never  before  that  we  no  longer  live  in  a  neighborhood  as 
big  as  our  immediate  community,  as  big  as  our  school  district,  or 
county,  or  state,  or  nation.  But,  as  one  speaker  has  so  aptly  put  it, 
we  are  in  a  world  neighborhood,  and  so  in  these  modern  days  our 
obligations  to  each  other  in  the  human  family  are  as  big  as  the  world. 
The  way  we  measure  up,  if  you  please,  and  meet  those  obligations  and 
responsibilities,  I  think,  depends  probably  upon  about  how  large  our 
point  of  view  is,  about  how  large  our  vision  is.  I  think  that  is  true  of 
the  American  school  teacher  behind  the  desk  and  perhaps  the  parent 
in  the  home  and  the  people  of  the  world,  no  matter  where  they  may 
be  working.  We  meet  our  responsibilities,  I  say,  about  in  proportion 
as  we  have  vision. 

Great  gatherings  like  this,  bringing  together  peoples  from  many 
nations,  giving  people  here  such  a  splendid  opportunity  to  get  the  great 
messages  that  will  come  out  of  this  convention,  (and  I  trust  the  press 
is  giving  it  to  the  world)  are  going  to  help  in  pushing  out  our  horizon. 

It  was  my  privilege  to  meet  in  the  initial  meeting  of  the  World 
Federation  of  Educational  Associations,  which  as  you  know  was  held 


164 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  San  Francisco,  six  years  ago ;  and  then  again,  four  years  ago,  I 
attended  the  first  biennial  in  Edinburgh,  Scotland,  in  1925 ;  in  1927 
I  was  at  Toronto,  Canada ;  and  last  year  at  Geneva,  Switzerland.  When 
I  mingled  and  met  and  talked  with  those  people,  representing  more  than 
fifteen  nations  of  the  earth,  educators  gathered  together  in  order  that 
we  might  think  through  our  educational  problems  together — because 
we  believe  the  hope  of  the  world  is  in  the  intelligent  education  and 
direction  of  the  youth  of  the  world — I  tell  you,  friends,  when  I  met 
and  heard  those  people  of  other  lands,  I  realized  what  a  common 
problem  it  is,  this  working  for  the  progress  of  the  human  family  in  all 
parts  of  the  world.  It  is  not  a  national  job.  And  may  I  remind  you 
that  the  reputation  of  the  people  of  Utah,  the  schools  of  Utah,  the 
educational  forces  of  Utah  and  the  West,  is  not  only  nation-wide,  but 
it  is  world-wide,  and  we  are  looking  to  you.  I  think  this  nation  is 
looking  to  the  people  of  the  West  for  more  than  you  sometimes  realize. 
We  have  never  been  disappointed  either. 

I  do  not  see  how  people  could  be  small-minded,  small  in  action, 
that  are  trained  as  I  know  your  schools  out  here  do  train  those  who 
live  in  this  great  open  country.  The  hymn  that  you  sang  here  today 
expresses  it  beautifully.  I  do  not  see  how  people  could  help  but  have 
a  big  vision  of  their  responsibility  and  their  opportunity  to  serve.  I 
oftentimes  said  to  my  own  teachers  in  the  building  where  I  had  the 
privilege  of  serving  as  an  elementary  principal,  that  if  I  were  a  parent  of 
children  I  would  be  very  grateful  to  that  type  of  teacher  who  would 
very  early  in  life  put  it  into  the  thinking  and  action,  if  you  please,  of 
the  children  all  along  the  line,  whether  it  is  kindergarten,  elementary, 
high  school  or  university,  that  type  of  thinking  that  Carruth,  the 
Kansas  poet,  must  have  meant  in  his  poem,  "Each  In  His  Own  Tongue." 
I  thought  of  it  as  I  rode  along  over  your  beautiful  country  this  morning. 
Those  lines  describe  my  country,  and  I  think  they  describe  yours. 
Carruth  says: 

"A  haze  on  the  far  horizon, 
The  infinite,  tender  sky, 
The  ripe,  rich  tint  of  the  cornfields, 
And  the  wild  geese  sailing  high, — 
And  all  over  upland  and  lowland 
The  charm  of  the  goldenrod, — 
Some  of  us  call  it  Autumn, 
And  others  call  it  God." 

Friends,  I  would  be  more  grateful  for  that  type  of  teacher  who  put 
that  kind  of  thinking  and  appreciation  of  God's  world  and  the  funda- 
mental things  in  life  into  the  early  thinking  and  training  of  the  children 
than  I  would  be  to  the  one  who  fails  to  do  that  but  perhaps  who  teaches 
much  exactness  in  language,  or  arithmetic,  or  geography,  or  what  not. 
Because  after  all  it  is  the  fundamental  things,  it  is  the  real  values  that 
count,  that  we  want. 

Perhaps  you  would  like  to  know  what  this  great  educational 
association  of  teachers  has  been  doing  recently.  Your  inviting  me  in 
here  today,  Mr.  President,  is  a  sample  of  the  co-operation  which  we 
as  a  great  body  of  teachers  find  everywhere.    I  have  had  the  blessed 


MISS  RUTH  PYRTLE 


165 


privilege  this  year,  as  your  president,  of  going  about,  seeing  the  field 
in  action,  (I  like  to  call  it  that)  as  I  had  this  blessed  privilege  in  Salt 
Lake  today,  and  yesterday  in  Ogden.  Then  I  have  had  several  times 
opportunities  of  being  down  in  Washington  where  our  headquarters 
are,  seeing  them  in  action.  I  have  been  interested  in  some  of  the  things 
that  perhaps  are  not  directly  class-room  experiences  that  we  are  doing 
as  a  great  association.  For  instance,  an  illustration  of  co-operating  with 
even  governmental  agencies.  Not  so  long  ago,  following  the  stock 
crash,  President  Hoover,  through  the  Secretary  of  Commerce,  Mr. 
LaMott,  invited  the  great  National  Educational  Association  to  give 
any  assistance  they  could  in  this  program  that  they  are  working  upon 
to  keep  confidence,  if  you  please,  to  keep  people  employed,  to  avoid  any 
great  crises.  To  that  end  more  than  five  thousand  letters  were  sent 
out  from  our  headquarters,  at  Sixteenth  and  M.,  four  blocks  from  the 
White  House,  to  the  leading  school  men  all  over  this  country  in  every 
state,  indicating  that  we  should  not  retrench  in  education  unless  ab- 
solutely necessary,  but  keep  up  our  building  program,  keep  up  this 
great  educational  program  which  this  Church  and  all  Utah  believes 
in  so  strongly.  And  when  the  answers  to  these  five  thousand  letters 
came  back  it  was  a  great  satisfaction  to  me  to  see  them  tabulated  and 
sent  over  to  the  Secretary  of  Commerce  and  to  the  President  of  the 
United  States,  and  to  read  the  letters  of  thanks  that  came  back. 

That  is  one  illustration  of  co-operation,  which  might  seem  to  you 
almost  outside  of  school  room  activities. 

Another  illustration  is  the  opportunity  which  we  had  as  a  great 
profession  to  co-operate  with  the  department  of  law  enforcement.  No 
doubt,  friends,  you  have  heard  here — maybe  not  so  much  as  we  hear 
further  -east — much  of  the  comment  criticising  "flaming  youth,"  even 
accusing  the  high  school  youth  of  America  of  drinking  more  these  days 
than  in  the  days  of  the  open  saloon.  So  the  law  enforcement  department 
of  the  government  asked  us  to  be  a  fact-finding  body  and  to  give  the 
truth  or  the  falsity  of  such  statements.  A  questionnaire  was  sent  out 
to  more  than  five  hundred  educators  in  every  part  of  this  Union. 
These  answers  are  coming  back  and  I  assure  you  it  is  very  interesting 
to  our  great  research  department  to  tabulate  these  results  from  that 
questionnaire  and  to  get  at  the  facts.  I  am  not  sure  it  is  all  finished 
yet,  but  enough  has  come  in  to  show  us  that  there  really  is  no  truth  in 
the  statement  that  the  children  of  America,  the  high  school  children, 
are  drinking  more  than  they  did  in  the  days  of  the  open  saloon.  It  is 
not  true  according  to  the  facts.  There  is  enough  truth  though  in 
some  of  the  answers  to  the  questionnaires  to  show  us  that  the  good 
work  of  this  Church  and  of  the  people  who  represent  it,  and  all  of  the 
other  forces  at  work  for  the  good  of  humanity  in  America  and  in  the 
world,  needs  to  keep  on  and  on,  and  constantly  on. 

I  could  go  on  giving  you  other  illustrations  of  co-operation.  I  see 
illustrated  it  seems  to  me  in  Utah,  in  this  congregation  today — I  have 
always  thought  it  was  illustrated  in  Utah — one  of  the  major  problems  of 
this  year.  We  are  working  on  the  wise  use  of  leisure  time  as  a  most 
important  factor  in  this  modern  age.   It  is  nothing  new,  but  it  is  new 


166 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


this  year,  that  we  have  appointed  a  national  commission  of  fifty  people 
and  a  state  commission  of  an  equal  number  in  each  state  working  on 
the  wise  use  of  leisure  time,  co-operating  with  all  the  other  agencies  that 
are  working  on  that,  or  wanting  to  be  a  clearing  house,  if  we  may  be, 
to  that  end.  What  for?  For  the  youth  of  America,  because  we  know 
how -very  necessary  that  is.  I  can  see  many  people  here  who  remember 
that  in  late  years  we  have  had  at  least  two  of  those  great  national 
programs  of  the  N.  E.  A.  in  this  beautiful  city  of  Salt  Lake.  1 
remember  very  well  being  in  this  very  tabernacle  and  enjoying  the  pro- 
gram that  we  had  here  in  1913,  and  you  will  remember  that  we  were 
here  in  1919.  This  year,  in  1930,  we  are  meeting  in  Columbus,  Ohio, 
and  the  theme  for  the  meeting  is  "Vital  V alues  in  Education."  The 
very  addresses  which  I  have  heard  since  I  have  been  on  this  platform, 
it  seems  to  me,  would  answer  some  of  the  things  that  we  are  discussing 
in  our  summer  program — "Vital  Values  in  Education."  The  first  day 
will  be  "The  International  Point  of  View,  as  a  Vital  Value  in  Educa- 
tion." I  have  heard  that  discussed  here  today  You  are  doing  it  in 
every  program.  "The  Art  of  Living,  as  a  Vital  Value  in  Education" — 
I  know  no  people  who  know  that  stronger  than  the  Mormon  people. 

"The  Wise  Use  of  Leisure,  as  a  Vital  Value  in  Education" ;  "The 
Enrichment  of  Life,  as  a  Vital  Value  in  Education."  Another  day  a 
sub-topic  will  be,  "Creative  Learning,  as  a  Vital  Value  in  Education." 

I  just  mention  the  topics  because  it  seems  to  me  so  in  line  with 
probably  the  very  purpose — indirectly,  maybe  some  of  you  will  think — 
of  this  great  world-gathering  you  have  here.  May  I  remind  you  that 
we  are  working  for  the  youth  of  the  nation ;  we  are  working  for  better 
salaries,  for  better  teachers.  We  are  trying  to  bring  to  the  spotlight 
worthy  school  activities  and  broadcast  programs  and  worthy  •achieve- 
ments. This  association  is  a  clearing-house — I  mean  the  National 
Educational  Association — for  local  and  state  associations.  It  is  the 
voice,  if  you  please,  of  people  in  service.  We  aim  to  shape  the  ideals 
of  the  profession.  It  is  the  pure  plan  of  educational  progress.  I  feel 
that  the  aims  of  our  great  National  Educational  Association  are  the 
ultimate  aims  which  you  have,  Mr.  President,  in  this  great  world- 
gathering  of  people.  We  are  working  together  for  the  human  race. 
I  bid  you  God-speed.  I  invite  you  to  give  us  all  the  help  that  you  will 
give  us  as  a  group  of  educators  trying  to  lead  your  children  aright. 
Let  us  in  that  way  assist  any  time  that  we  may. 

I  esteem  this  a  great  honor  and  a  great  privilege  for  our  Associa- 
tion to  be  allowed  a  few  moments  on  this  platform  and  to  bring  to  you 
again  the  greetings  of  our  great  National  Educational  Association,  the 
largest  body  of  teachers  not  only  of  the  United  States,  but  of  the  world, 
working  for  the  same  purposes  that  you  are,  the  progress,  the  best 
progress  of  humanity.   I  thank  you. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

For  the  benefit  of  our  visitor  I  will  announce  that  we  have  in  what 
is  known  as  our  Primary  Association,  comprised  of  little  children,  over 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


167 


one  hundred  thousand  members;  that  we  have  in  our  Young  Ladies' 
Mutual  Improvement  Association  and  our  Young  Men's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  over  one  hundred  thousand  members;  that  in 
our  Sunday  Schools  we  have  over  a  quarter  of  a  million. 

I  am  sure  it  will  be  of  interest  to  you  to  learn  that  we  expended 
last  year  from  the  tithes  of  our  people: 

For  the  construction  of  Ward  and  Stake  meetinghouses  $1,257,000, 
and  that  the  people  themselves  spent  another  million. 

For  the  maintenance  and  expense  of  our  meeting  houses  $588,000. 

For  Stake  maintenance  $235,000 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "God  is  our  refuge  and  strength." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Associations  are  presided 
over  by  three  of  the  Apostles,  so  we  shall  not  call  upon  them  to  speak 
at  this  time,  as  they  have  already  spoken. 

Two  of  the  members  of  the  Superintendency  of  Sunday  Schools 
are  members  of  the  quorum  of  Twelve  Apostles,  and  Brother  George 
D.  Pyper,  to  whom  we  owe  more  I  believe  than  to  anyone  else  for  this 
marvelous  pageant  that  is  being  presented,  is  one  of  the  General  Superin- 
tendency of  Sunday  Schools,  and  we  will  allow  him  to  talk  to  us  for 
ten  minutes. 

I  wish  to  say  that  I  have  been  associated  with  Brother  Pyper  for 
many  years,  and  that  he  is  one  of  the  loyal,  true,  faithful  Latter-day 
Saints,  true  to  the  very  core. 

ELDER  GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

My  brethren  and  sisters  :  I  regret  very  much  that  I  was  absent  from 
the  meeting  this  morning  when  President  Grant  called  me.  Not  that  I 
desired  to  speak,  by  any  means,  but  because  I  always  like  to  be  found  in 
my  place  when  called  for. 

I  was  just  informed  by  a  friend  as  I  came  on  the  platform  that 
he  had  never  heard  a  more  splendid  introduction  to  anyone  who  was 
absent  than  that  given  me  by  President  Grant  this  morning.  Probably 
it  was  well  that  I  was  absent  as  I  have  never  in  my  life  been  called  to 
face  a  wonderful  general  conference,  and  the  shock  might  have  proved 
fatal. 

However,  I  am  glad  to  stand  before  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  say  that  I  myself  am  not  entitled  to  all  the  credit  for  the  produc- 
tion of  "The  Message  of  the  Ages."  There  have  been  some  wonderful 
helpers.  We  have  had  the  cooperation  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
and  the  leading  authorities,  of  Elder  George  Albert  Smith  and  the 


168 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Centennial  committee ;  a  wonderful  cooperation  all  along  the  line.  The 
names  of  the  Pageant  committee  are  as  follows:  W.  O.  Robinson  and 
Junius  F.  Wells  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 
general  board;  Elbert  H.  Eastmond,  director  of  art  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  Provo ;  Charlotte  Stewart,  Salt  Lake  City's  recrea- 
tional superintendent ;  Irma  Felt  Bitner  of  the  Granite  stake  committee ; 
Ann  Nebeker  of  the  general  Primary  Association  board;  Anthony  C. 
Lund,  director  of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  choir ;  Tracy  Y.  Cannon, 
Tabernacle  organist;  Lester  Hinchcliff,  director  of  the  Ogden  Taber- 
nacle choir ;  Leroy  Robertson,  a  young  musician  of  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  Provo,  who  composed  the  motif  and  some  of  the  incidental 
music  and  orchestrations  connected  with  the  pageant,  who  unfortunately 
is  ill  and  in  California,  and  has  not  been  able  to  hear  his  own  work; 
Bertha  A.  Kleinman,  secretary  of  the  Arizona  Temple ;  Frank  W.  Asper, 
Tabernacle  organist;  and  A.  Hamer  Reiser,  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board,  who  has  acted  as  secretary. 

I  may  say  for  your  information  that  the  majority  of  the  committee 
have  been  working  on  the  pageant  for  over  six  months  in  organizing  the 
plot,  selecting  the  scriptural  texts  from  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  About  the  first 
of  January,  the  Centennial  committee  sent  for  Sister  Bertha  A.  Klein- 
man  of  Mesa,  Arizona,  who  spent  one  month  with  the  committee ;  and 
together  we  worked  out  the  pageant  as  you  now  have  it.  We  believe 
and  hope  that  it  may  be  a  foundation  for  a  Latter-day  Saint  mission 
play,  that  might  be  produced  on  the  Tabernacle  block  at  stated  periods. 

Thanks  are  due  to  those  who  have  assisted  in  many  other  ways — 
Joseph  D.  C.  and  Cannon  Young,  the  architects  of  the  Church,  who 
drew  the  plans  for  building  this  wonderful  platform,  as  far  as  I  know 
the  greatest  stage  now  in  existence,  except  those  that  have  been  specially 
built  for  great  spectacles.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  all  of  this 
has  been  done  with  love  and  reverence  for  this  great  building.  Howard 
McKean,  a  splendid  man,  built  the  platform.  I  said  to  him,  "Howard,  be 
careful  not  to  mar  these  pulpits."  He  said,  "You  do  not  need  to  warn 
me,  Brother  Pyper.  I  have  such  a  reverence  for  this  house  that  not  a 
nail  shall  be  driven  where  it  can  be  avoided." 

And  so  all  the  work  has  been  done  in  that  spirit.  Brother  M.  A. 
Strand  put  in  for  us  a  wonderful  electric  system.  It  is  rather  thrilling 
to  me  to  know  that  part  of  the  switchboard  used  is  the  old  switchboard 
of  the  Salt  Lake  Theatre  which  I  installed  there  nearly  thirty  years  ago. 
We  met  with  many  problems  in  the  work,  but  with  our  united  efforts, 
they  were  overcome.  It  was  one  of  these  that  I  was  helping  to  solve 
this  morning  when  called  for  by  the  President. 

I  do  not  know  how  many  missionaries  are  abroad  in  the  world  to- 
day, but  it  may  be  interesting  to  you  to  learn  that  we  have  approximate- 
ly fifteen  hundred  men  and  women  working  in  this  pageant,  and  every 
one  of  them  is  a  missionary.  If  you  could  get  among  them  and  hear  their 
expressions  and  partake  of  their  enthusiasm  you  would  be  surprised — 
at  least  you  would  be  happy  as  I  have  been.    Anything  they  can  do  to 


ELDER  GEORGE  D.  PYPER 


169 


further  the  cause  of  truth  they  are  happy  in  doing.  Their  only  interest 
is  the  glory  of  God  and  the  furtherance  of  his  work  upon  the  earth. 

I  walked  home  with  a  man  yesterday  who  said :  "  'The  Message  of 
the  Ages'  has  strengthened  my  faith."  And  I  believe  it  is  the  feeling  of 
all  the  members  of  our  committee  that  if  the  production  does  that,  if  it 
strengthens  the  faith  of  the  people  in  any  way  their  greatest  hopes  and 
wishes  will  be  realized. 

There  are  many  more  connected  with  the  production  that  I  should 
like  'to  name,  but  time  will  not  permit. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimo.>;',  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  I  know  that  God  lives,  because  I  have  felt  his  presence 
and  he  has  been  my  refuge  and  comfort,  as  has  been  sung  today,  in  time 
of  trouble  and  tribulation.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  because  I 
have  felt  the  warmth  of  his  love.  I  know  that  this  Gospel  of  the  latter 
days  is  true  because  of  the  blessings  it  has  brought  to  me  and  mine  in 
this  life  and  the  assurances  it  has  given  me  concerning  the  life  to  come. 
My  greatest  desire  now  is  that  the  few  years  I  may  have  left  upon 
this  earth  I  may  devote  to  his  glory  and  the  furtherance  of  his  cause. 
For  this  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WILLARD  YOUNG 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  I  presume  it  is  owing  to  the 
fact  that  I  am  the  son  of  President  Brigham  Young  that  I  have  this 
honor. 

I  want  to  say  that  I  believe  if  father  were  here  he  would  rejoice 
very  greatly  in  the  proceedings  that  have  taken  place  during  the  last 
few  days. 

The  foundation  of  our  faith  is  that  we  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
the  Son  of  God.  We  have  heard  quoted  some  of  the  Savior's  sayings, 
such  as:  "If  you  come  unto  me  you  shall  have  eternal  life,"  and  "If 
you  come  unto  me  and  are  baptized  ye  shall  be  saved."  What  is  salva- 
tion, and  what  is  eternal  life  ? 

To  be  saved  is  this,  that  if  we  comply  with  the  requirements  set 
forth  by  our  Savior,  we  will  not  have  to  suffer  for  our  sins.  That  is 
one  thing.  Another  thing  is  that  if  we  accept  the  Gospel,  become  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  and  remain  faithful  to  the  end. 
when  we  die  our  spirits  will  go  into  paradise ;  that  is,  we  will  be  placed 
beyond  the  power  of  evil.  We  will  not  have  to  suffer  the  temptations 
that  we  suffer  here. 

We  are  promised  if  we  become  members  of  this  Church  and  are 
faithful  to  the  end  that  when  the  Savior  comes  again,  we  shall  receive 
a  resurrection,  and  that  promise  is  not  given  to  any  others  than  those 
who  accept  the  terms. 

Members  of  the  Church  who  are  faithful  to  the  end  will  have  life 
in  the  presence  of  God.  If  one  has  complied  with  the  requirements  of 
salvation  in  the  terrestrial  kingdom,  he  will  have  eternal  life.  If  he 
complies  with  the  requirements  of  salvation  in  the  telestial  kingdom 
he  will  have  eternal  life.    If  he  complies  with  the  requirements  for 


170 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


exaltation  in  the  celestial  kingdom  he  will  have  eternal  life  and  exalta- 
tion in  that  kingdom. 

May  God  help  us  to  properly  use  the  knowledge  that  has  been  re- 
vealed to  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  Junius  F.  Wells,  one  of  the  As- 
sistant Historians  of  the  Church,  a  son  of  Brigham  Young's  counselor, 
Daniel  H.  Wells,  who  succeeded  my  father  in  that  position. 

ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 

Assistant  Church  Historian 

Necessarily  what  I  shall  say  must  be  prefatory  to  that  which  I  should 
like  to  have  recorded  as  my  contribution  to  the  great  volume  of  testimony 
that  is  going  forth  from  this  centennial  conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  to  all  the  world. 

I  feel  as  President  Brigham  H.  Roberts  did  concerning  the  an- 
nouncement of  his  prodigious  work,  which  is  perhaps  one  of  the  most 
important,  and  perhaps  longest-lived  contributions  to  this  centennial 
year  of  any  that  shall  go  forth,  the  History  of  the  Church,  a  work, 
I  trust,  that  shall  find  its  place  in  every  public  library,  in  every  school 
library,  and  in  the  homes  of  the  affluent  who  can  afford  to  buy  it. 
I  will  go  farther  and  say  I,  hope  it  shall  find  a  place  in  the  homes  of 
the  stockmen,  who  should  give  their  sons  a  calf  to  raise  with  which 
to  pay  for  those  books;  in  the  homes  of  the  agriculturists  who  should 
let  their  sons  cultivate  a  sufficient  acreage  of  sugar  beets  to  pay  for  them. 
They  will  in  the  course  of  time  be  worth  many  acres  of  sugar  beets. 

I  wish  to  say  a  word  concerning  Andrew  Jenson.  I  was  so  happy 
and  pleased  this  morning  that  he  should  have  the  opportunity  of  address- 
ing this  great  conference,  for  I  knew  that  the  desire  lay  near  to  his 
heart.  Andrew  Jenson,  circumnavigator  of  the  world  in  both  directions, 
for  years  has  devoted  himself  to  historical  study  and  research  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  has  assembled  a  library  of  upwards  of  two 
thousand  bound  volumes,  more  than  three  thousand  titled  pamphlets  and 
more  than  sixteen  thousand  manuscript  biographies.  These  he  has 
generously  given  to  the  Church  and  we  have  found  lodgment  for  them 
in  what  we  are  designating  the  Jenson  Alcove  in  the  library  of  the 
Historian's  Office. 

Now  if  I  have  not  exhausted  my  ten  minutes,  I  should  like  to  bear 
my  testimony.  I  have  borne  my  testimony  from  this  stand  more  times 
than  one  concerning  the  Church  to  which  I  owe  my  existence  through 
the  faithful  acceptance  of  its  doctrines  by  my  father  and  my  mother. 
I  have  borne  my  testimony  concerning  the  personnel  of  its  general 
officers :  the  successors  to  Joseph  Smith  in  the  Presidency,  six  of  whom 
I  have  personally  and  somewhat  familiarly  known  and  served,  and  the 
forty-one  out  of  fifty-four  Apostles  whom  I  have  personally  known  and 
loved,  admired  and  upheld  by  my  faith  and  prayers.    I  will  not  attempt 


ELDER  JUNIUS  F.  WELLS 


171 


to  name  the  number  of  Seventies,  but  I  have  known  a  good  many  of 
them.   I  desire  to  bear  my  testimony  that  these  men  were  men  of  God. 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  concerning  my  testimony  of  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet,  for  I  wish  to  challenge  the  world  upon  this  propo- 
sition, that  the  world  of  unbelievers  together  with  the  believers  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  are  witnesses  before  mankind  to  the  fact  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God.  I  will  prove  it  to  you.  On  the 
night  of  the  22nd  of  September,  1823,  Joseph  Smith  appealed  to  God 
for  a  further  revelation  concerning  his  standing  before  the  Almighty, 
and  almost  instantly  in  response  to  his  prayer  his  room  was  lighted 
up  by  a  light  exceeding  that  of  the  noonday  sun  and  within  it  appeared 
a  personage.  This  personage  spoke  to  him.  I  will  quote  Joseph's 
own  words : 

"He  called  me  by  name,  and  said  unto  me  that  he  was  a  messenger  sent 
from  the  presence  of  God  to  me,  and  that  his  name  was  Moroni;  that  God  had 
a  work  for  me  to  do;  and  that  my  name  should  be  had  for  good  and  evil  among 
all  nations,  kindreds  and  tongues,  or  that  it  should  be  both  good  and  evil  spoken 
of  among  all  people." 

Now  we  say  to  the  world,  you  have  fulfilled  your  part  and  are 
fulfilling  your  part,  and  will  be  held  responsible  for  it  before  the  heavens, 
in  traducing  the  name  of  Joseph  Smith,  in  proclaiming  him  as  an  im- 
poster,  in  speaking  evil  of  him.  We  Latter-day  Saints,  in  this  volume 
of  testimony  that  is  broadcast  from  this  conference,  and  in  the  action 
that  we  have  taken  since  Joseph  Smith  came  to  his  ministry,  to  uphold 
his  testimony  and  maintain  it  before  the  world,  are  speaking  his  name 
for  good,  have  been  doing  so  in  the  past,  and  shall  continue  to  do  so 
in  the  future.  And  so  between  us  we  declare  to  mankind  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  I  challenge  the  world  to  refute  that 
statement. 

The  Lord  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  regret  beyond  expression  that  we  have  no  more  time  left.  We 
have  not  as  yet  heard  from  Bishop  John  Wells.  We  shall  have  to  ask 
Brother  Wells  to  speak  very  briefly  instead  of  occupying  the  usual 
fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  that  have  been  allotted  to  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church. 

ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  have  been  deeply  impressed  with  the  references  that  have  been 
made  to  the  great  pageant,  particularly  with  the  comments  of  our 
previous  speaker,  Junius  F.  Wells.  It  will  serve  to  remind  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  of  the  program  of  our  Father  in  heaven  for  the  development 
and  salvation  of  his  children.   The  pageant  gives  a  history  of  the  world 


172 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  is  hardly  ever  given  in  textbooks.  It  shows  the  dealings  of  our 
Father  with  his  children  through  various  generations. 

No  one  could  listen  to  the  music  and  to  the  recitation,  and  see 
the  marvelous  presentation  of  the  great  events,  without  strongly  feeling 
the  power  and  influence  of  God's  messengers,  prophets,  and  repre- 
sentatives who  have  held  the  holy  priesthood. 

We  speak  of  the  great  events  that  have  transpired  in  this  Church, 
the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  through  the  medium  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  never  tire  of  hearing  it.  It  is  always  music  to  me.  It  is  the 
greatest  subject  of  this  last  dispensation.  We  should  constantly  teach 
to  our  children  and  to  others  the  story  of  the  Prophet's  first  vision,  the 
coming  of  the  Angel  Moroni,  the  delivery  of  the  plates,  the  translation 
of  the  book,  the  testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses,  and  the  organization 
of  the  Church.  We  should  also  teach  the  mission  of  John  the  Baptist, 
and  the  travels,  labors,  and  miracles  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ. 

I  am  going  to  read  to  you  a  small  slip  that  came  to  my  attention 
years  ago,  written  by  a  man  named  Francis,  and  which  appeared  in  a 
California  newspaper.  It  ranks  very  high,  I  believe,  in  current  liter- 
ature, and  when  I  read  it,  it  fills  my  mind  with  a  very  profound 
impression. 

"Here  is  a  man  who  was  born  in  an  obscure  village,  child  of  a  peasant 
woman.  He  grew  up  in  another  obscure  village.  He  worked  in  a  carpenter 
shop  until  he  was  thirty,  and  then  for  three  years  he  was  an  itinerant  preacher. 
He  never  wrote  a  book.  He  never  held  an  oflice.  He  never  owned  a  home.  He 
never  had  a  family.  He  never  went  to  college.  He  never  put  his  foot  inside 
a  big  city.  He  never  traveled  two  hundred  miles  from  the  place  where  he  was 
born.  He  never  did  one  of  the  things  that  usually  accompany  greatness.  He 
had  no  credentials  but  himself.  He  had  nothing  to  do  with  this  world  except 
the  naked  power  of  his  divine  manhood. 

"While  still  a  young  man,  the  tide  of  popular  opinion  turned  against  him. 
His  friends  ran  away.  One  of  them  denied  him.  Another  betrayed  him.  He 
was  turned  over  to  his  enemies.  He  went  through  the  mockery  of  a  trial.  He 
was  nailed  upon  the  cross  between  two  thieves.  His  executioners  gambled  for 
the  only  piece  of  property  he  had  on  earth  while  he  was  dying,  and  that  was  his 
coat.  When  he  was  dead,  he  was  taken  down  and  laid  in  a  borrowed  grave 
through  the  pity  of  a  friend. 

"Nineteen  wide  centuries  have  come  and  gone  and  today  he  is  the  center 
of  the  human  race  and  the  leader  of  the  column  of  progress.  I  am  far  within 
the  mark  when  I  say  that  all  the  armies  that  ever  marched,  and  all  the  navies 
that  were  ever  built,  and  all  the  parliaments  that  ever  sat  and  all  the  kings  that 
ever  reigned,  put  together,  have  not  affected  the  life  of  man  upon  this  earth  as 
powerfully  as  has  this  one  solitary  life." 

We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal  Father.  We  believe  in  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Elder  Brother  and  Redeemer,  our  Advocate  with  the 
Father,  who  came  to  redeem  mankind  from  the  fall  of  Adam  and  to 
lay  down  a  code  of  laws  known  to  us  as  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  by 
obedience  to  which  we  may  return  to  our  Father  in  heaven.  After 
three  years  of  missionary  labor,  he  was  crucified,  and  having  overcome 
all  things,  all  power  was  given  unto  him,  both  in  heaven  and  in  earth. 
By  his  sacrifice  he  brought  to  pass  the  resurrection  and  eternal  life. 


ELDER  JOHN  WELLS 


173 


The  Gospel  he  taught  has  been  restored  in  these  latter  days  through 
the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  received  his 
authority  from  John  the  Baptist,  and  from  Peter,  James  and  John. 

I  hope  that  some  future  historian  of  the  Church  (say  fifty  years 
from  now)  will  record  that  as  a  result  of  this  great  centennial  gathering 
there  developed  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  a  deeper  spirituality,  a 
more  sincere  desire  to  serve  the  Lord  our  God,  a  truer  and  more 
friendly  neighborliness  and  love  of  fellowmen  than  ever  before. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  with  this  people,  and  may  his 
special  blessings  rest  upon  those  who  direct  the  affairs  of  this  Church, 
I  sincerely  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  would  all  be  disappointed  if  we  did  not  have  a  few  words  of 
blessing  from  the  great  grandson  of  the  martyred  Patriarch,  who  now 
stands  as  our  Presiding  Patriarch. 

Brother  Hyrnm  G.  Smith  has  been  in  very  poor  health  for  some 
time,  and  at  one  time  I  felt  it  would  hardly  be  fair  to  ask  him  to  say 
anything  at  this  conference.  But  he  seemed  to  have  sufficient  vigor  to 
offer  a  good  prayer  at  the  opening  of  this  conference,  and  we  shall  be 
pleased  now  to  have  a  few  words  of  blessing  and  testimony  from  him. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  this  important 
privilege,  although  I  had  thought  there  would  not  be  time  for  me  to 
appear  the  second  time. 

GRATEFUL  FOR  RETURN  OF  HEALTH 

I  am  very  grateful  indeed  for  the  prayers  of  the  saints,  and  I 
testify  that  the  Lord  has  heard  them  in  my  behalf. 

Two  of  the  late  General  Conferences  of  the  Church  I  have  heard 
over  the  radio  from  my  home.  I  have  been  very  grateful  to  be  able 
to  attend  all  of  the  sessions  of  this  conference  and  am  very  grateful 
for  the  strength  that  has  returned  to  me  and  that  I  am  able  to  enjoy 
your  association  and  presence. 

A  great  many  testimonies  of  my  work,  the  work  of  the  Lord,  have 
come  to  me  during  this  conference,  and  I  am  praying  that  what  few 
words  I  can  say  will  be  acceptable  in  the  time  that  is  allotted,  or  left. 

PARENTAGE  EXPLAINED 

Many  people  have  asked  me  about  my  parentage  and  who  I  am, 
and  in  just  a  few  words  let  me  answer  your  questions  thusly:  I  happen 
to  be  the  oldest  son  of  my  father,  who  was  Hyrum  Fisher  Smith,  the 
oldest  son  of  his  father,  the  late  Patriarch  John  Smith,  who  was  the 
oldest  son  of  his  father,  the  Patriarch  Hyrum  Smith.  My  grandfather 
was  the  oldest  brother  of  his  father's  children,  but  his  younger  brother 


174 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


became  the  President  of  the  Church  and  perhaps  because  of  that  reason 
was  better  known  by  the  people.  Nevertheless,  grandfather  became  the 
Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church  at  the  age  of  twenty-three  years, 
and  I  think  he  holds  the  record  today  for  time  of  service,  having  served 
in  that  office  for  fifty-six  years.  Perhaps  that  is  sufficient  in  that 
respect. 

WITNESSES  OF  THE  LORD'S  GOODNESS 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  however  to  the  fact  that  the  Lord  has 
blessed  me  in  the  work  that  has  been  entrusted  to  my  hands  as  one 
of  the  young  men  of  the  Church.  My  grandfather  in  his  fifty-six  years 
was  instrumental  in  administering  about  21,000  recorded  blessings,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  hundreds  of  others  that  were  unrecorded.  And 
about  20,000  of  his  blessings  are  in  the  archives  of  the  Church  today. 
Eighteen  years  ago  last  Sunday  I  was  sustained  by  the  vote  of  the 
General  Conference  in  this  building  to  hold  the  office  that  I  now  bear. 
During  that  time  there  have  been  accumulated  in  my  office  nearly  twenty 
thousand  testimonies  or  witnesses  that  the  Lord  has  been  very  kind 
to  me.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  faith  that  the  Lord  has  inspired  in 
the  minds  of  the  saints  and  members  of  the  Church  in  their  blessings 
and  in  the  power  of  the  Lord  through  the  holy  priesthood. 

I  have  been  asked  many  times  by  individuals  who  have  received  the 
priesthood  how  I  know  that  I  have  the  priesthood.  They  too  have 
been  ordained  to  offices  in  the  priesthood,  but  they  have  sometimes  won- 
dered whether  or  not  they  really  hold  the  priesthood,  because  of  their 
inactivity  in  the  Church.  I  want  to  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  I  know  that  I  possess  the  priesthood  of  God,  because  I 
have  faith  in  those  witnesses,  nearly  twenty  thousand  of  them,  and  many 
others  not  recorded.  They  are  a  recorded  witness  that  may  go  on 
down  through  the  ages  in  the  archives  of  the  Church  as  well  as  in  the 
hearts  and  homes  and  lives  of  the  saints. 

BLESSINGS  FOR  ALL 

I  am  very  grateful  to  be  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord 
in  officiating  in  this  sacred  work,  and  indeed  it  is  a  sacred  work.  I 
pray  God's  blessings  upon  the  membership  of  the  Church  and  the  c  Sicers 
of  the  Church — President  Grant  and  his  counselors,  the  quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  the  Seventies  and  other  presiding  officers;  the 
Elders,  Priests,  Teachers  and  Deacons  throughout  the  Church.  I  pray 
God  to  bless  them  and  all  their  officers  and  their  work  in  righteousness. 
I  pray  for  the  great  body  of  High  Priests  throughout  the  Church.  It 
was  a  thrilling  sight  when  I  saw  them  arise  in  this  conference.  God 
bless  the  High  Priests  in  the  Church,  that  they  too  may  know  that 
they  possess  that  power,  for  the  Lord  himself  was  a  great  High  Priest. 
The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  declared  it,  and  these  men  bear  his  power  in  the 
earth  today  and  are  his  witnesses ;  and  I  share  that  with  them,  in  which 
I  glorify  the  Lord. 

I  praise  the  Lord  for  his  blessings,  and  as  his  servant  I  bless  the 
entire  membership  of  the  Church.    May  God  bless  his  servants  the 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


175 


missionaries,  both  men  and  women,  wherever  they  are  called  to  labor, 
at  home  or  abroad,  and  I  bless  them  as  his  servant,  that  they  may  con- 
tinue to  go  and  come  in  safety,  whether  upon  water  or  upon  land,  wheth- 
er among  their  friends  or  their  enemies,  that  they  may  go  in  the  power 
of  God  as  his  witnesses ;  that  they  may  find  friends  and  search  out  the 
honest  in  heart,  the  blood  of  Israel,  and  those  whom  God  would  have 
know  the  truth. 

I  bless  all  who  are  working  in  righteousness  throughout  the  world, 
the  honest  in  heart,  the  sick,  the  suffering,  the  destitute.  I  pray  God 
to  provide  their  needs  and  to  give  them  faith  to  hear  and  to  heed  the 
teachings  of  his  servants.  My  heart  is  filled  with  humility  and  with 
blessings  for  all  who  deserve  them.  I  know  that  God  is  merciful,  that 
he  loves  the  honest  in  heart,  and  that  his  blessings  go  out  to  the  sick ; 
for  when  he  was  upon  the  earth  in  person  he  visited  them  and  blessed 
them  and  healed  them.  I  pray  his  blessings  upon  them  today,  that  they 
may  continue  to  receive  comfort  and  the  power  to  be  healed  and; 
restored.  I  bless  them  to  this  end  in  the  Church  and  in  the  land 
throughout  our  mountain  country  here,  those  who  are  suffering  in 
humility  and  have  faith  to  be  healed.    God  bless  them. 

TESTIMONY  OF   GOD'S  WORK 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  that  he  is  merciful  to  his 
children,  and  that  this  work  will  go  on  and  on  and  on  until  it  has 
finished  its  full  purpose  in  the  earth.  This  is  the  work  that  Daniel 
saw  that  should  never  be  thrown  down  or  given  to  another  people, 
but  should  go  on  and  on  until  it  should  fill  the  earth.  And  may  God 
bless  us  to  be  instrumental  in  his  hands  in  bringing  about  these  holy 
purposes.  May  his  Holy  Spirit  attend  us  and  bless  us  in  our  homes. 
May  his  blessing  be  upon  our  lands,  in  our  offices,  in  our  fields,  and 
with  our  flocks  and  herds.  May  our  lands  produce  and  grow  fruit 
that  will  be  meet  for  food,  and  then  may  we  honor  God  in  our  tithes 
and  in  our  offerings.  Be  honest  with  him  and  he  will  remember  you 
and  his  blessings  will  be  poured  out  upon  you  in  rich  abundance,  and 
you  will  come  up  before  him  in  an  acceptable  manner  and  go  on  richly 
endowed  by  his  power  and  blessing,  to  be  magnified  in  the  world  as 
humble  servants  carrying  out  his  purposes.  Unto  this  end  I  pray  God's 
blessing  upon  the  Church  in  all  of  its  activities  whether  at  home  or 
abroad,  both  in  the  auxiliary  organizations  and  in  the  quorums  and 
offices  of  the  priesthood — all  of  which  I  pray  for  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

REPORT  OF  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

"President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors, 
Dear  Brethren: 

It  gives  us  pleasure  to  state  that  our  examination  of  the  reports  of  the  First 
Presidency's  office,  which  covered  the  Presiding  Bishop's  department,  disclosed 


176 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  fact  that  the  finances  of  the  Church  are  in  excellent  condition  and  its 
accounting  system  is  modern  and  complete. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Your  brethren, 

(Signed)  Henry  H.  Rolapp, 
(Signed)  O.  W.  Adams, 

Auditing  Committee." 

STATISTICAL  REPORT 


There  were  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  last  year. ..  .19,071 

Children  baptized  in  stakes  and  missions  15,468 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes  and  missions. .  . .  6,51 1 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion   2,068 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries    59 

Number  of  local  missionaries   99 

Total  missionaries  on  foreign  missions  December  31,  1929    2,226 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   903 

Total  missionaries   3,129 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Mission  Home  during 

the  past  year   942 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  (stakes  and  missions)  68,573 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  29  per  thousand. 

Marriage  rate  14.5  per  thousand. 

Death  rate  7.8  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  70  per  cent 
We  have  at  the  present  time:    Stakes  of  Zion  104;  Wards,  930;  Independent 
branches,  75;  Dependent  branches,  27;  Total  wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  1032;  Missions,  29;  Mission  branches,  800. 

APPRECIATION  OF  DEVOTION  OF  TEMPLE  WORKERS 

I  desire  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the  many  hundreds  who 
are  working  in  our  temples  without  remuneration — several  hundred  in 
the  Salt  Lake  Temple  alone.  In  all  of  our  temples  an  immense  and 
wonderful  work  is  being  accomplished,  all  on  missionary  time,  and  I 
appreciate  it.  On  behalf  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  I  extend  our 
blessing  to  all  of  these  devoted  workers. 

President  Grant  asked  all  who  were  in  the  audience  who  had  had 
the  privilege  of  shaking  hands  with  President  Brigham  Young  to  arise 
and  raise  their  right  hands. 

There  was  a  large  number  present  who  had  had  this  privilege. 

The  President  then  asked  those  who  were  present  at  the  con- 
ference of  the  Church  fifty  years  ago  to  arise  and  raise  their  right  hands. 

There  was  a  considerable  number  in  the  audience  who  had  attended 
that  conference,  and  who  so  indicated  in  the  manner  requested  by 
President  Grant. 

The  choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  "God  be  with  you  till 
we  meet  again." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


177 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  desire,  on  behalf  of  the  Presidency  and  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  to  thank  the  City  Commissioners,  the  Police  Department, 
the  Commercial  Club,  the  leading  business  men  of  our  city,  and  all  who 
have  taken  part  so  energetically  and  willingly  to  make  a  success,  so 
far  as  was  in  their  power,  of  this  great  conference.  I  wish  particularly 
to  thank  each  and  every  one  who  has  given  his  or  her  services  to  make 
a  success  of  the  production  of  the  wonderful  pageant  which  is  being 
presented  nightly  in  this  building.  We  think  it  is  a  marvel  of  inspira- 
tion, and  we  feel  to  pour  out  our  blessings  upon  all  who  have  been 
connected  with  it. 

TO  SPEAK  AT  SERVICES  NEXT  SUNDAY 

The  time  has  expired.  I  had  hoped  to  have  time  to  say  something 
to  the  people.  Those  of  you  who  happen  to  be  in  the  city  next  Sunday, 
if  you  will  come  to  the  afternoon  services  in  this  building,  may  hear  me 
speak  to  you  on  that  occasion. 

THANKS  SINGERS  AND  OTHERS 

I  wish  to  thank  all  of  the  splendid  singers — our  own  tabernacle 
choir,  the  tabernacle  choir  from  Provo,  the  tabernacle  choir  from 
Ogden,  the  young  people  from  the  Latter-day  Saints  College,  who  sang 
for  us  yesterday ;  the  leaders  of  these  organizations,  those  who  have  sung 
solos,  and  all  who  have  assisted  in  providing  us  with  the  beautiful  music 
that  we  have  heard.  I  wish  to  thank  everybody  who  has  contributed 
to  the  success  of  this  conference,  and  if  anyone  has  been  overlooked, 
please  consider  yourself  thanked. 

President  Anthony  W.  Ivins  offered  the  benediction. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Accompaniments  and  interludes  were  played  on  the  great  organ  by 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Samuel  Whittaker. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


SUNDAY,  APRIL  13,  1930,  2:00  P.  M.,  SALT  LAKE 
TABERNACLE 

In  his  closing  remarks  at  the  General  Conference,  President  Heber 
J.  Grant  announced  that  there  was  not  sufficient  time  left  for  him  to 
speak  as  he  had  hoped  to  do,  and  that  he  would  therefore  deliver  an 
address  at  the  services  to  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle,  Sunday, 
April  13th,  at  2:00  p.  m. 

The  following  is  a  verbatum  report  of  the  remarks  of  the  speakers 
at  that  meeting: 

ELDER  ALONZO  A.  HINCKLEY 

It  is  my  sincere  desire  that  I  shall  make  a  sacred  use  of  the  precious 
time  granted  to  me  on  this  occasion,  and  that  with  an  eye  single  to  the 
glory  of  God  I  shall  bear  a  faithful  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

My  soul  has  been  made  to  rejoice  exceedingly  during  the  sessions 
of  the  recent  conference.  I  have  been  filled  with  gratitude  and  thanks- 
giving, filled  with  testimony  and  good  desires ;  blessed  with  a  determin- 
ation to  offer  continued  service  unto  the  Lord,  praying  for  a  spirit  that 
shall  permit  me  to  discern  between  the  essentials  and  non-essentials  and 
center  upon  the  essentials  and  offer  full  service. 

I  never  experienced  such  a  day  in  my  life  as  the  day  on  which 
we  Opened  our  centennial  conference.  I  never  felt  a  spirit  more  thrilling 
than  on  that  occasion.  As  I  stood  with  that  great  body  of  high  priests 
to  bear  witness  before  God  that  we  sustain  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church  in  their  position  as  divinely  called  and  appointed  leaders,  my 
soul  went  out  in  gratitude.  As  we  rent  the  heavens  with  the  glad  shout 
of  hosanna  to  God  and  the  Lamb,  it  seemed  heavenly.  Then  in  finish- 
ing the  first  session,  the  President  of  the  Church  blessed  us  not  only 
from  the  kindness  of  his  heart  and  the  good  desires  and  love  that  he 
has  for  all  men  (especially  for  the  righteous)  and  for  all  who  bear  rule 
in  the  nation,  as  well  as  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  thought,  this  is  not  just 
the  voice  of  a  kindly  man,  good  and  great  and  noble  in  his  intentions, 
but  this  is  one  speaking  by  divine  authority,  and  whomsoever  he  blesses 
God  will  bless,  for  he  acts  for  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Another  week  has  elapsed,  and  on  this  another  Sabbath  we  find 
ourselves  here  in  worship  before  the  Lord.  The  message  of  the  cen- 
tennial has  gone  forth  and  will  continue  its  mission  in  the  world.  Mor- 
monism,  so-called,  will  be  better  known  now  than  ever  before.  We 
stand  in  a  remarkable  position  in  the  world,  claiming  no  descent  from  or 
allegiance  with  any  sect  or  denomination  in  the  world,  and  every  sect 
and  denomination  in  the  world  is  happy  that  they  are  not  responsible 
for  our  existence.  We  stand  and  bear  testimony  of  ourselves  that  this 
is  verily  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God,  and  that  it  is  founded  upon 
the  everlasting  and  enduring  principles  of  God  and  is  unshakable.  We 


ELDER   ALONZO   A.   HINCKLEY  179 


occupy  a  position  different  even  from  our  brethren  in  that  remarkable 
period,  the  meridian  of  time,  when  the  Savior  organized  his  Church  and 
ministered  among  men.  At  that  period  of  time  it  was  given  unto  the 
authorities  to  know  that  while  they  proclaimed  the  Gospel  with  all  fervor 
and  with  a  full  knowledge,  and  sought  to  bring  all  men  to  an  understand- 
ing of  the  truth,  that  while  they  waged  a  righteous  cause,  yet  they  knew 
that  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  was  yet  far  ahead.  I  have 
been  led  to  believe  that  this  knowledge  must  have  carried  with  it  some 
sorrow,  when  they  knew  there  would  come  a  time  of  dwindling  in  un- 
belief, that  there  would  come  a  time  when  the  true  faith  should  be  lost,  a 
time  when  men  should  seek  for  the  truth  and  should  not  find  it.  It  must 
have  been  to  them  somewhat  sorrowful. 

But  the  Lord  did  not  leave  them  without  the  knowledge  that  this 
Gospel,  which  is  eternal  and  everlasting,  should  finally  prevail,  in  the  day 
of  the  restitution  of  all  things.  I  have  been  much  impressed  with  the  tes- 
timony of  Peter,  when  he  talked  to  those  unbelieving  Jews.  Peter  and 
John,  following  the  Pentecostal  outpouring  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  proceed- 
ing in  their  ministry,  had  gone  to  the  temple.  They  saw  a  lame  man  who 
stood  before  the  Gate  Beautiful  and  pleaded  for  alms.  Peter,  speaking 
to  him  said :  "Look  on  us,"  and  he  looked  steadfastly  into  their  faces, 
perhaps  expecting  alms.  Peter  said :  "Silver  and  gold  have  I  none,  but 
such  as  I  have  give  I  thee.  In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Nazareth 
rise  up  and  walk."  And  he  took  him  by  the  hand,  and  he  did  arise  and 
did  walk;  and,  rejoicing,  entered  into  the  temple  with  the  brethren. 

It  created  consternation,  and  men  gathered  to  know  what  had  hap- 
pened. Peter  reasoned  with  them  and  said :  "Why  art  thou  so  concern- 
ed? Why, is  this  so  wonderful?  Why  do  you  look  upon  us  as  though  it 
is  any  power  inherent  with  us  ?  This  Jesus  whom  you  would  not  release, 
whom  Pilate  would  have  released,  but  you  clamored  and  demanded  that 
he  should  release  you  a  murderer,  and  you  pleaded  for  his  crucifixion- — 
this  Jesus  has  God  raised  from  the  dead,  and  it  is  through  his  power 
that  this  man  stands  forth  healed."  Then  Peter  said,  referring  to  the 
betrayal  and  crucifixion.  "I  wot  that  through  ignorance  ye  did  it."  And 
he  warned  them  and  commanded  them  to  repent.  "Repent,  ye,  there- 
fore!" and  he, said  unto  them,  not  as  he  had  said  on  the  day  of  Pente- 
cost, "Repent  and  be  baptized  and  have  the  Holy  Ghost  bestowed  upon 
you,"  but  "Repent  ye  therefore,  ....  that  your  sins  may  be  blotted  out, 
when  the  times  of  refreshing  shall  come  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord ; 
and  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ,  which  before  was  preached  unto  you." 

Then,  through  the  remission  of  sins,  there  was  a  time  coming,  I  say, 
it  was  revealed  unto  Peter,  a  great  and  glorious  time  when  Jesus  Christ 
would  come  again.  For  he  did  say  that  the  heavens  must  retain  him  until 
the  restitution  of  all  things  spoken  by  God  through  all  the  prophets  since 
the  world  began.  In  that  time  of  restitution,  when  God  would  send 
again  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the  heavens  must  retain  until  then,  should  come 
into  fulfilment  of  things  spoken  by  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world 
began. 

Is  it  not  wonderful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  should  be 


180 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


a  people  now  living  who  declare  that  this  is  the  dispensation,  or  period 
wherein  Paul  declared  God  should  gather  together  in  one  all  things  in 
Christ  Jesus,  both  in  heaven  and  on  earth  ?  The  message  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  to  the  world,  and  this  great  centennial  conference  has  sent 
anew  the  declaration  abroad,  that  this  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times  has  been  ushered  in;  that  God  has  sent  again  from  the  heavens 
Jesus  Christ;  that  he  has  sent  ministering  angels,  each  with  his  special 
power  and  special  commission  and  special  authority.  He  has  taken  away 
from  the  world  and  removed  every  superstition,  every  tradition,  every 
false  interpretation,  and  has  established  anew  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  coupled  it,  not  with  any  promise  of  some  future  time  when  we  shall 
dwindle  in  unbelief  and  be  left  in  darkness,  but  established  his  Church, 
given  his  own  testimony  that  it  shall  never  be  thrown  down  or  given  to 
another  people,  but  that  it  shall  go  on  and  on  and  on  until.it  shall  fill 
the  whole  earth. 

This  is  a  period  of  preparation,  this  is  a  period  of  proclamation.  This 
is  a  time  of  warning.  The  responsibility  is  given  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  as  they  are  warned  they  shall  warn  their  neighbors,  until  there 
shall  be  no  ear  that  shall  not  hear,  nor  eye  that  shall  not  see,  nor  heart  that 
shall  not  be  penetrated.  The  Gospel  is  the  voice  of  God  to  all  the  world, 
calling  them  to  repentance,  to  a  godly  life;  with  an  assurance  that  un- 
to all  who  conform  their  lives  to  the  requirements  of  the  Gospel  there 
shall  be  no  gift  and  no  blessing  that  shall  be  withheld  from  them. 

The  Lord  himself  has  said  that  it  is  the  voice  of  God ;  he  has  called 
and  he  says: 

"Hear,  O  ye  heavens,  and  give  ear,  O  earth,  and  rejoice  ye  inhabi- 
tants thereof,  for  the  Lord  is  God,  and  beside  him  there  is  no  Savior." 

This  is  our  testimony.  This  is  the  testimony  of  hundreds  of  thous- 
ands of  Latter-day  Saints  who  have  been  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth,  and  they  who  have  conformed  their  lives  to  all  Gospel  require- 
ments know  that  their  feet  are  placed  in  certain  and  in  sacred  paths,  and 
that  if  they  remain  faithful  they  shall  be  led  to  salvation  and  exalta- 
tion in  the  presence  of  God.  . 

This  is  my  testimony.  I  rejoice  in  the  leadership  of  this  Church.  I 
bear  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  lives,  mission  and  labors  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  those  who  have  followed  him.  I  rejoice  like- 
wise in  the  goodness  that  God  has  manifested  in  the  consideration  of  his 
children,  that  no  man  has  to  walk  alone,  or  lean  upon  the  testimony  of 
some  one  else,  but  that  the  Lord  gives  a  testimony  to  each  and  every  in- 
dividual who  accepts  the  truth  and  conforms  his  life  to  the  requirements 
of  the  Gospel. 

I  bear  my  testimony  as  one  of  the  third  generation  in  this  Church, 
that  as  my  grandfathers  and  grandmothers,  as  my  father  and  my  mother 
knew,  so  know  I  that  this  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  and  his 
power  unto  salvation  now  and  forever.  May  the  Lord  help  us  to  be  true 
to  the  end,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


181 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  had  hoped  that  during  our  conference  we  would  have  an  abun- 
dance of  time — seeing  that  we  had  four  days  instead  of  the  usual  three 
— in  which  I  might  make  some  closing  remarks  at  the  last  session.  It 
does  seem  that  we  never  get  quite  enough  time  at  our  conferences.  I  know 
of  nothing  that  has  been  more  interesting  to  me  in  these  gatherings  than 
the  brief  addresses  we  have  had  upon  many  occasions  from  presidents 
of  stakes.  Since  we  quit  having  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
we  have  not  been  calling  on  returned  mission  presidents  and  presidents 
of  stakes  to  speak  at  our  conferences,  as  we  have  lacked  the  time  neces- 
sary to  hear  from  them. 

I  do  not  know  but  that  in  the  future  it  might  be  a  wise  thing  for  us 
to  have  our  meetings  start  at  half  past  nine  and  half  past  one,  as  an  hour 
and  a  half  is  sufficient  time  for  most  people  to  eat  their  lunch,  and  this 
would  allow  two  and  a  half  hours  for  each  session  of  the  conference. 

Since  I  became  President  of  the  Church,  we  have  always  been 
crowded  for  time  towards  the  close  of  our  conferences  and  have  had  to 
limit  some  of  our  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities  to  very  brief  ad- 
dresses, which  I  regret.  I  realize  that  twenty  minutes  is  hardly  sufficient 
time  for  a  man  to  enlarge  upon  any  idea  to  a  very  great  extent,  and  yet  I 
believe  that  the  five  minute  speeches  by  our  sisters  and  the  very  brief 
remarks  by  our  presidents  of  missions  during  our  conference  have 
found  a  warm  echo  in  the  hearts  of  those  who  listened. 

A  WONDERFUL  CHANGE 

One  of  the  things  I  wished  to  say  at  the  conference  I  will  say  now, 
and  that  is  that  I  have  never  felt  happier  in  my  life  than  over  the  wonder- 
ful change  that  seems  to  have  come  all  over  the  world  in  the  attitude  of 
people  toward  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  now  to 
labor  for  forty-seven  and  a  half  years  as  one  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church.  In  my  early  ministry  as  one  of  the  officials,  almost 
without  exception  as  I  traveled  around  the  country,  I  found  a  spirit 
amounting  almost  to  hatred  in  the  hearts  of  people  toward  the  Mormons. 
I  have  found  people  who  would  double  up  their  fists  and  say :  "If  I  had 
my  way  I  would  put  all  of  you  Mormons  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  then 
turn  the  guns  of  Fort  Douglas  upon  you." 

I  remember  that  during  my  three  years'  ministry  in  Europe  I  did 
not  succeed  in  getting  one  single  line  of  refutation  in  any  of  the 
newspapers  of  Great  Britain,  notwithstanding  some  of  the  vilest  and  most 
wicked  and  abominable  stories  were  printed  against  our  people. 

ONE  PARTICULAR  CASE 

I  call  to  mind  one  particular  case.  I  went  to  London  with  a  letter 
of  introduction  from  the  shipping  firm  with  whom  we  had  done  business 
for  over  fifty  years,  to  the  editor  of  one  of  the  large  papers.  This  letter 
of  introduction  not  only  vouched  for  me  as  a  gentleman  of  integrity 
and  honor,  whose  word  was  as  good  as  his  bond,  but  it  also  vouched 
for  all  of  my  predecessors  as  presidents  of  the  European  mission  being 


182 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  that  same  class.  The  editor  to  whom  the  letter  was  addressed  was 
away,  but  his  assistant,  a  Mr.  Robinson,  received  me.  When  I  told  him 
I  was  anxious  to  refute  the  seven  to  ten  columns  that  had  been  published 
on  different  occasions  in  his  paper,  he  declined  to  accept  a  single  thing 
that  I  would  write.  He  announced  that  he  was  convinced  that  they  had 
published  the  exact  things  that  ought  to  be  published  about  the  "Mor- 
mon" people. 

LETTERS  OF  INTRODUCTION 

I  answered  him  that  a  man  may  call  his  neighbor  a  liar,  but  that 
does  not  make  him  a  liar.  Yet  he  might  be  honest  in  thinking  that  his 
neighbor  had  lied.  I  told  him  I  defied  him  to  furnish  a  certificate  of 
character  from  any  reputable  man  or  woman  for  any  of  the  men  or 
women  who  had  furnished  him  the  information  that  had  appeared  in  his 
paper.  I  told  him  that  I  had  letters  of  introduction  from  influential 
bankers  in  New  York,  Chicago  and  San  Francisco,  and  from  every  non- 
Mormon  banker  in  Salt  Lake  City,  vouching  for  my  integrity.  I  had  no 
testimonies,  I  told  him,  from  "Mormon"  bankers.  That  would  be 
equivalent  to  my  writing  a  testimony :  "To  whom  it  may  concern :  The 
bearer,  Heber  J.  Grant,  is  an  honorable  man.  Very  respectfully,  Heber 
J.  Grant." 

All  of  my  credentials  were  from  those  not  of  our  Church.  He  said : 
"It  does  not  make  any  difference  what  you  have.  We  will  not  publish 
anything  that  you  have  to  say.  We  believe  that  we  have  published  the 
right  things."  "I  know,"  was  my  reply,  "that  you  have  published  that 
which  is  false." 

At  that  time  all  of  our  missionaries  in  Great  Britain  were  expected 
to  wear  "stovepipe"  hats  and  Prince  Albert  coats.  They  seemed  to  be 
very  particular  at  that  time  in  regard  to  dress.  They  have  changed  some- 
what in  the  last  twenty  or  more  years. 

THE  ASSISTANT  EDITOR 

When  I  got  to  the  door  I  put  my  hat  on,  turned  arouna,  took  it  off 
and  pretended  to  have  an  idea.  I  had  had  the  idea  as  I  was  walking  up- 
stairs after  the  boy  told  me  that  the  edtior  was  out,  but  that  the  assistant 
editor,  Mr.  Robinson  would  receive  me.  I  turned  around  and  said :  "By 
the  way,  my  letter  was  not  to  you.  The  editor  is  out.  You  are  only  the 
assistant  editor,  and  if  I  remember  correctly  the  young  man  who  ushered 
me  upstairs  told  me  your  name  was  Robinson.   Is  that  correct?" 

He  said:  "It  is." 

"Do  you  know  Phil  Robinson  ?" 

"Everyone  knows  Phil  Robinson." 

I  said:  "Would  you  accept  any  statement  that  Phil  Robinson 
made?" 

"Certainly  I  would." 

"Did  he  represent  the  London  Telegraph,  one  of  the  two  greatest 
(and  I  emphasized  the  two  greatest,  because  his  paper  was  not  one  of 
them)  London  newspapers,  during  the  Boer  war?" 

"Yes,  he  was  their  correspondent." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


183 


"Were  all  of  his  statements  received  at  one  hundred  cents  on  the 
dollar?" 

"Certainly." 

"Then  you  would  believe  anything  he  says?" 
"Certainly." 

"All  right.  Buy  his  book  entitled  'Sinners  and  Saints,'  and  you 
will  find  that  everything  that  you  have  published  in  your  paper  is  a  lie 
pure  and  simple.  It  will  only  cost  you  two  shillings,  and  if  that  is  too 
expensive,  I  will  be  very  glad  to  purchase  it  and  present  it  to  you  with 
my  compliments." 

He  said :  "You  astound  me." 

I  said :  "You  are  not  the  only  person  that  has  been  astounded  when 
he  has  come  up  against  the  Mormon  question." 
He  said :  "Write  us  half  a  column." 

I  said :  "Seven  to  ten  columns  of  falsehoods  and  a  half  column  of 
refutation.  Small  favors  thankfully  received,  and  larger  ones  in  pro- 
portion.  In  two  hours,  you  shall  have  your  half  column." 

MANUSCRIPT  [RETURNED 

I  sent  it  to  him.  He  kept  it  the  usual  thirty  to  sixty  days  and  re- 
turned it  with  the  usual  printed  slip,  many  of  which  I  have  seen :  "The 
editor  regrets  very  much  that  he  cannot  find  space  for  this  article."  The 
manuscript  was  sent  back  to  me. 

THE  CONDITION  IN  EUROPE  TODAY 

What  a  wonderful  change !  When  Brother  Talmage  who  is  sitting 
upon  this  stand  presided  over  the  European  mission,  and  today  while 
Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe  is  presiding  over  that  mission,  we  have  been 
able  to  get  practically  anything  and  everything  that  we  desire  printed 
in  the  newspapers.  They  give  us  the  best  kind  of  notices  regarding  our 
conferences  there,  favorable  and  honorable  notices. 

OUR  LOCAL  MORNING  NEWSPAPER 

I  am  grateful  beyond  expression  for  the  change  in  attitude  of  our 
local  morning  newspaper.  I  wish  to  pay  a  tribute  to  them  for  publish- 
ing twelve  pages  with  illustrations  of  all  the  presidents  of  the  Church, 
my  counselors,  our  great  temple  in  this  city  and  all  our  other  temples, 
and  for  accepting  an  article  written  by  one  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  covering  the  twelve  pages. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  fact  that  some  years  ago  I  delivered  a  sermon 
in  this  tabernacle  and  the  report  of  it  was  so  garbled  by  that  paper  the 
next  day  that  it  was  about  as  honest  as  though  a  man  had  said :  "I  killed 
John  Jones  in  self  defense,"  and  someone  had  published  that  this  man 
said :  "I  killed  John  Jones,"  without  mentioning  that  it  was  "in  self  de- 
fense." 

I  remember  that  the  president  of  the  great  Hartford  Fire  Insurance 
company,  of  which  I  was  the  agent  at  that  time  (I  have  had  the  honor  of 
representing  them  for  more  than  fifty  years)  was  in  the  audience  at  the 


184 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


time  I  preached  the  sermon.  The  next  morning  he  read  this  garbled 
report,  and  he  said  to  me :  "You  ought  to  sue  that  libelous  paper ;  that 
is  not  what  you  said  at  all.  They  have  twisted  around  what  you  did  say, 
making  it  altogether  different." 

Today  no  one  could  ask  for  fairer  publicity  or  for  a  better  article  to 
be  written,  with  illustrations,  than  the  twelve  pages  that  the  Tribune  re- 
cently published  to  which  I  refer.  I  am  very  grateful  for  this  wonderful 
change. 

A  VICIOUS  OPPONENT 

I  remember  that  when  George  Q.  Cannon  was  elected  a  delegate  to 
Congress  his  right  to  a  seat  in  Congress  was  contested.  The  attorney 
who  went  to  Washington  to  oppose  Brother  Cannon,  and  in  behalf  of 
the  man  who  had  received,  as  I  remember  it,  just  ten  per  cent  as  many 
votes  as  President  Cannon,  told  the  Congressmen  that  we  were  a  vile 
lot,  and  went  on  to  say  that  if  a  man  were  opposed  to  the  Mormon 
hierarchy  he  was  liable  to  disappear  and  nobody  would  know  what  had 
become  of  him ;  that  a  man  took  his  life  in  his  hands  if  he  dared  to  be 
in  opposition  to  the  Mormon  people.  When  he  got  through  President 
Cannon  said  to  him,  calling  him  by  name : 

"You  pride  yourself  that  than  you,  no  more  bitter,  no  more  unre- 
lenting, vicious  opponent  of  this  awful  Mormon  system  lives,  do  you 
not  ?" 

"I  certainly  do." 

Brother  Cannon  said,  addressing  the  committee  hearing  his  case: 
"Gentlemen,  I  do  not  think  it  is  at  all  necessary  for  me  to  answer  the 
gentleman's  arguments.  He  has  lived  with  us  for  over  twenty  years. 
He  has  a  fine  dwelling  that  has  cost  about  $25,000  to  erect."  Then  he 
sat  down  and  the  committee  voted  for  Brother  Cannon  to  retain  his  seat. 

FRANCHISE  TO  WOMEN 

Years  later  it  was  suggested  that  the  horrible  Mormon  problem 
could  be  solved  by  giving  the  franchise  to  the  women.  It  so  happened 
that  the  legislature  was  in  session  at  the  time,  and  there  was  not  a 
single  non-Mormon  in  the  legislature.  Within  48  hours,  if  my  memory 
serves  me  right,  the  women  were  enfranchised  by  our  legislature.  The 
same  identical  gentleman  who  was  employed  to  fight  George  Q.  Cannon's 
taking  his  seat  in  Congress,  was  sent  to  Washington  to  have  the  franchise 
taken  away  from  the  Mormon  women  as  he  said  that  it  only  added 
power  to  the  awful  hierarchy.  He  announced  that  the  Mormons  had 
from  two  to  twenty  wives,  etc.,  and  that  these  women  were  all  slaves  and 
voted  just  as  they  were  told  to  do  by  their  husbands. 

When  he  got  through  speaking,  President  Cannon  remarked :  "Does 
it  not  surprise  you,  gentlemen,  as  you  are  all  married,  how  some  intelli- 
gent men  believe  that  other  men's  wives  can  be  bossed."  He  then  sat 
down.   He  had  killed  the  gentleman's  argument. 

However,  when  the  discussion  came  before  the  Congress  of  the 
United  States,  the  franchise  was  taken  away  from  the  women  of  Utah, 
but  it  was  later  restored  when  Utah  attained  statehood. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


185 


PLURAL  MARRIAGE 

The  statement  about  every  Mormon  having  from  two  to  twenty 
wives,  which  has  been  uttered  many,  many  times,  is  an  absolute  false- 
hood. I  presided  ecclesiastically  for  two  years  over  one  of  the  counties 
during  the  time  that  we  were  preaching  and  practicing  plural  marriage, 
and  no  individual  was  permitted  to  take  a  plural  wife  without  the  writ- 
ten recommendation  of  the  bishop  of  the  ward  in  which  he  resided, 
vouching  for  his  character.  Not  only  that,  the  president  of  the  stake  had 
to  vouch  for  his  character  as  well.  And  before  he  could  go  into  the 
temple  to  marry  a  plural  wife  the  President  of  the  Church  had  to  give 
him  a  recommend.  I  had  only  two  applications  for  permission  to  marry 
plural  wives  during  the  entire  time  I  presided  over  the  Tooele  stake  of 
Zion,  covering  the  entire  county  of  Tooele,  and  I  refused  them  both.  I 
said  to  the  first  applicant:  "What  is  needed  in  your  family  is  sufficient 
brains  to  take  care  of  one  wife  and  one  family,  and  certainly  you  cannot 
get  a  recommend  from  me  to  marry  another  wife." 

To  the  next  man  I  said :  "I  happen  to  have  lived  in  Salt  Lake 
before  I  came  out  here,  and  although  you  are  vouched  for  by  your  bishop 
he  is  not  familiar  with  your  conduct  when  you  are  in  Salt  Lake.  I  hap- 
pen to  have  seen  you  under  the  influence  of  liquor,  and  your  kind  can- 
not get  a  recommend  from  me  to  obtain  another  wife.  It  is  bad  enough 
to  have  a  man  who  breaks  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  gets  drunk  raising 
one  family,  without  giving  him  the  opportunity  to  raise  another." 

There  never  was  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  people  of  Utah  that 
two  per  cent  of  the  population  were  liable  under  the  Edmunds-Tucker 
act.  But  it  was  a  very  fine  argument  to  say  that  we  imported,  as  people 
are  saying  yet  that  we  do,  women  to  Utah  and  forced  them  into  plural 
marriage. 

AN  INCIDENT  IN  CHICAGO 

The  first  time  I  was  in  the  east,  in  the  city  of  Chicago,  in  May, 
1883,  a  gentleman  who  afterward  became  the  general  manager  of  one 
of  the  greatest  insurance  companies  in  the  world,  whose  representative 
I  was,  took  me  to  dinner  at  the  Palmer  House.  After  dinner  there  were 
about  twenty  ladies  in  the  rotunda,  and  he  said  to  me :  "I  have  invited 
my  lady  friends  here,  Mr.  Grant,  to  meet  you." 

I  was  a  young  man  of  26  and  it  was  my  first  trip  east.  I  never  had 
read  a  book  on  etiquette — and  by  the  way,  I  never  have  read  one  since 
— and  so  I  watched  to  see  what  people  did  so  that  I  might  not  make  a 
mistake.  I  noticed  after  eating  that  bowls  were  brought  to  us  with  a 
piece  of  orange  in  them.  I  thought  it  did  not  look  very  much  like 
orangeade  and  wondered  what  it  was.  I  saw  my  friend  dip  his  fingers 
in  the  water  and  wipe  them,  and  so  I  did  the  same. 

When  we  came  out  to  the  rotunda,  I  noticed  that  he  kept  his  hat  on, 
notwithstanding  there  were  ladies  there.  So  I  kept  mine  on.  One  of 
the  ladies  turned  to  me,  after  we  had  chatted  a  few  moments,  and  said : 

"Now — now,  really,  Mr.  Grant,  I  don't  wish  to  give  offense,  but 
would  you  mind  removing  your  hat  ?" 


186 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  said :  "Not  at  all,  madame,  I  am  only  26  years  old,  and  the  horns 
do  not  come  out  on  the  Mormons  until  they  are  32.  You  will  have  to 
wait  six  more  years." 

She  blushed  and  said :  "Oh,  I  have  heard  that  Mormons  have  horns." 

I  said :  "I  supposed  you  had,  but  they  do  not  come  out,  dear  madame, 
until  we  are  32  years  old.  I  am  sorry  that  I  shall  have  to  disappoint 
you." 

FAIR  PUBLICITY 

Things  have  changed.  We  have  had  some  of  the  very  finest  pub- 
licity all  over  the  country.  Occasionally  I  have  seen  a  picture  or  two  of 
myself,  of  Brigham  Young  and  others,  together  with  articles  regarding 
us,  that  really  if  I  were  on  a  jury,  trying  the  person  who  was  the  posses- 
sor of  the  face  represented  by  those  pictures  I  am  sure  I  would  convict 
him  no  matter  what  the  charge  might  be.  On  the  other  hand  there  have 
been  better  publicity  and  better  articles  published  about  us  during  this 
centennial  celebration  than  anything  I  have  ever  read  before,  and  I  am 
very  grateful  for  it. 

I  want  to  pay  this  tribute  to  those  who  have  published  these  articles 
and  I  expect  to  acknowledge  with  thanks  the  many  telegrams  that  we 
have  received. 

OUR  PEOPLE  RESPECTED 

When  I  realize  that  for  years  and  years  not  a  single  person  from 
Utah  was  ever  able  to  secure  employment  in  Washington,  and  that  to- 
day we  have  several  hundred  of  our  people  employed  there,  and  when 
I  realize  that  the  delegate  from  Utah  was  expelled  years  ago,  and  today 
one  of  the  apostles  of  the  Church  is  recognized  as  one  of  the  foremost 
and  one  of  the  most  outstanding  senators  in  the  United  States  and  re- 
spected by  the  president  and  his  colleagues,  I  rejoice  in  this  wonderful 
change. 

I  rejoice  in  having  had  ex-President  Taft  say  to  me  when  I  met 
him  upon  a  trip  to  Washington  :  "Mr.  Grant,  you  did  not  call  on  me  the 
last  time  you  were  here.  Now  I  want  it  understood  that  you  are  never 
to  come  to  Washington  without  coming  to  see  me.  There  is  in  my  heart 
a  warm  feeling  for  your  people.  I  have  great  respect  for  them  and  I 
want  you  to  call  on  me  whenever  you  are  here." 

He  was  in  such  a  condition  of  ill  health  that  I  couldn't  call  upon 
him  the  last  time  I  was  in  Washington.  I  rejoice  in  the  friendship 
for  our  people  of  every  president  of  the  United  States  from  President 
Roosevelt  down  to  the  present  time. 

FRIENDSHIP  OF  U.  S.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  in  the  friendship  of  Ulysses  S.  Grant.  He  sent  out  a  lot 
of  officials  whose  work  and  only  object  seemed  to  be  to  destroy  our 
people  politically  and  to  take  away  from  us  the  franchise,  and  do  every- 
thing against  us  that  they  possibly  could.  But  he  came  here  himself 
and  met  the  people.   He  saw  20,000  vigorous,  fine  children  on  the  side 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


187 


hill  out  near  where  the  Catholic  cathedral  now  stands,  waving  American 
flags,  and  young  girls  all  dressed  in  white  singing  a  song.  And  as  his  car- 
riage stopped  and  they  welcomed  the  president  of  the  United  States,  he 
said:  "Whose  children  are, those?  Are  they  Mormons?"  When  he  was 
told  that  they  were  he  said :  "I  have  been  lied  to  outrageously."  He  went 
home  and  chopped  off  the  heads  of  the  officials,  figuratively  speaking, 
whom  he  had  sent  out  here,  and  then  sent  us  some  good  men.  To  every- 
body who  undertook  to  tell  him  untruths  about  us  he  said :  "I  have  been 
there.    I  have  met  them.   I  know." 

HIGH  STANDARDS 

The  one  thing  I  rejoice  in  is  that  people  are  beginning  to  know 
that  if  we  are  judged  by  the  standard  laid  down  by  the  Savior  of  the 
world  they  cannot  help  but  respect  us.  What  was  the  first  great  com- 
mandment of  God?  To  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth.  We  have  a 
higher  birthrate,  higher  than  the  average  of  any  state  in  the  Union.  We 
have  a  low  death  rate.  I  have  been  engaged  in  the  insurance  business 
for  58  years.  We  have  a  lower  death  rate  than  the  great  life  in- 
surance companies.  A  wicked  people  never  have  a  low  death  rate.  We 
have  a  low  divorce  rate.    We  have  a  low  insanity  rate. 

ARIZONA  PIONEERS 

The  ex-governor  of  Arizona  remarked  upon  one  occasion  in  a  pub- 
lic speech  that  the  Mormon  pioneers  of  Utah  who  had  gone  over  into 
Arizona  and  settled  there,  the  early  pioneers  of  Arizona,  were  among 
the  choicest  and  best  of  people  in  that  state.  He  said :  "In  one  particu- 
lar they  are  being  robbed  of  their  share  of  the  public  moneys  of  this 
state.  In  proportion  to  their  numbers  they  are  feeing  robbed  of  2,500  to 
3,000  per  cent  of  their  share  of  criminal  taxes,  because  they  are  entitled 
to  have  25  or  30  inmates  in  the  state  penitentiary  and  have  but  one.  Then 
again,  they  are  being  robbed  in  that  they  are  entitled  to  six,  seven  or 
eight  in  the  insane  asylum  and  they  do  not  have  one." 

The  very  first  time  I  went  to  Arizona,  after  hearing  this  I  quoted  the 
governor,  and  the  district  judge  arose  in  the  audience  and  said  :  "Mr. 
Grant,  I  am  the  district  judge.  That  one  was  from  Apache  county  and 
he  has  since  been  pardoned." 

A  year  or  so  after  that,  Governor  Campbell,  who  was  successor  to 
Governor  Hunt  who  made  the  statement  that  I  have  quoted,  was  here  at 
a  convention  of  all  the  governors  of  the  different  states.  They  came  into 
our  splendid  office  building  to  pay  respects  to  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church  and  as  I  shook  hands  with  Governor  Campbell  I  told  him  what 
I  had  heard  that  Gov.  Hunt  had  said  and  of  the  one  person  in  the  state 
penitentiary  being  pardoned.  He  said:  "That  is  correct.  He  was 
from  Apache  county  and  he  has  been  pardoned." 

BY  (THEIR  FRUITS 

When  people  stop  to  reflect  upon  the  statement  of  the  Savior :  "By 
their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them,"  and  then  examine  into  the  record 


188 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


made  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  not  afraid  of  the  decision  that 
shall  be  made  regarding  our  people.  We  rejoice  that  we  are  becoming 
known  for  just  what  we  are. 

I  know  from  my  contact  with  people  in  early  days,  of  the  vindic- 
tiveness  regarding  plural  marriage.  I  have  had  very  many  men  say: 
"Why,  Mr.  Grant,  it  is  a  crime  morally,  intellectually  and  physically 
against  the  posterity  of  these  polygamous  marriages."  I  have  said :  "I 
am  under  the  necessity  of  acknowledging  the  truth  of  that  statement, 
because  I  am  the  last  son  of  the  last  wife,  and  I  am  a  horrible  example 
intellectually,  physically  and  morally,  of  the  fruits  of  plural  marriage 
among  the  Mormons." 

I  can  think  of  nothing  that  is  more  gratifying  to  me  than  this  won- 
derful change  that  has  come  over  the  people  of  the  world. 

I  am  reminded  of  an  incident  wherein  a  young  man  applied  for  a 
prominent  position  for  which  his  predecessor  had  received  a  salary  and 
commission  of  a  little  over  thirty  thousand  dollars  a  year.  This  was  in 
one  of  the  outlying  states  where  the  Mormons  have  but  few  members  in 
comparison  with  others.  In  this  particular  state  I  do  not  think  we  have 
five  per  cent  of  the  entire  population.  The  man  who  had  the  position 
to  offer  said  to  the  young  man :  "You  are  a  Mormon  ?" 

"Oh,  no,"  said  the  young  man.  "I  have  outgrown  that." 

The  gentleman  said:  "Well,  we  are  considering  your  application 
with  others.    Come  around  at  a  later  date." 

In  the  meantime  he  sent  for  the  president  of  the  stake  and  said: 
"What  is  the  matter  with  that  young  man?"  He  thought  that  by  an- 
nouncing that  he  had  outgrown  Mormonism  he  would  get  the  job.  "Un- 
less you  can  vouch  for  his  honesty,"  said  this  gentleman  to  the  stake 
president,  "he  will  not  get  the  job.  What  has  he  done  ?" 

The  stake  president  said :  "Well,  he  has  been  studying  psychology, 
and  he  thinks  he  has  outgrown  Mormonism.  But  I  can  say  to  you  that 
I  think  he  is  an  honorable  and  energetic  young  man." 

"Then,"  said  the  gentleman,  "we  will  give  him  the  position." 

OBSERVERS  OF  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

The  word  "Mormon"  today  is  a  synonym  for  an  honorable,  upright, 
sober,  industrious  person,  provided  the  person  who  is  a  Mormon  is  living 
up  to  his  religion. 

We  are  fundamentally  for  prohibition.  As  Latter-day  Saints  we 
have  as  you  all  know — and  if  there  are  any  strangers  here  I  announce 
it  to  them — that  we  have  in  our  Church  what  is  known  as  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  which  is  a  revelation  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  in  which  we  are 
told  to  leave  hot  drinks  (and  Joseph  Smith  interpreted  "hot  drinks"  to 
mean  tea  and  coffee)  tobacco  and  liquor  alone;  that  tobacco  is  not  good 
for  man,  and  that  liquor  is  not  good  for  man,  except  for  the  washing 
of  the  body.  We  are  promised  that  if  we  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom  it 
will  give  us  physical  strength,  whereby  the  destroying  angel  shall  pass 
us  by  as  he  did  the  children  of  Israel.  And  we  are  promised  that  we 
shall  have  hidden  treasures  of  knowledge  if  we  live  in  accordance  with 
the  Word  of  Wisdom. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


189 


It  is  only  fair  to  say  to  our  friends  who  may  have  honored  us 
with  their  presence  here  this  afternoon  that  we  have  more  than  1,000 
bishops  of  wards  and  presidents  of  branches  in  this  Church,  from  Can- 
ada to  Mexico,  and  they  each  have  two  counselors,  and  that  each  bish- 
opric and  branch  presidency  has  a  clerk.  So  that  we  have  more  than 
4,000  men  in  the  different  wards  of  this  Church  who  must  pledge 
themselves  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  or  we  do  not  install  them  in 
office.  Occasionally  men  do  not  live  up  to  their  pledges,  but  unless 
they  repent  we  tender  them  their  resignation  and  of  course  they  accept 
it,  as  they  cannot  help  themselves. 

ENDORSE  WHAT  -LINCOLN  SAID 

In  addition  we  have  more  than  one  hundred  stakes  in  the  Church. 
A  stake  includes  from  five  to  ten  or  twelve  wards.  There  are  a  pres- 
ident and  two  counselors  and  a  high  council  of  twelve  and  a  stake  clerk 
in  each  of  these  stakes.  We  have  more  than  2000  men  as  officers  of 
these  stakes  who  make  the  same  pledge  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 
Therefore,  so  far  as  we  are  concerned,  we  absolutely  believe  and  endorse 
most  heartily,  always  have  and  always  expect  to,  this  remarkable  and 
wonderful  statement  which  I  am  about  to  read  to  you,  by  a  man  who 
was  loved  perhaps  as  much  as  any  man  has  been  while  occupying  the 
presidential  chair  of  the  United  States  after  the  war  closed.  Some  ter- 
rible things  were  said  about  him  just  before  the  war  started  and  while  it 
was  in  progress.    Lincoln  said : 

"Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well-wisher  to  his  pos- 
terity, swear  by  the  blood  of  the  revolution  never  to  violate  in  the  least  particular, 
the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to  tolerate  their  violation  by  others.  As  the 
patriots  of  seventy-six  did  to  the  support  of  the  Declaration  of  Independence,  so 
to  the  support  of  the  Constitution  and  laws  let  every  American  pledge  his  life,  his 
property  and  his  sacred  honor.  Let  every  man  remember  that  to  violate  the 
law  is  to  trample  on  the  blood  of  his  father,  and  to  tear  the  charter  of  his 
own  and  his  children's  liberty.  Let  reverence  for  the  law  be  breathed  by  every 
American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles  on  her  lap.  Let  it  be  taught  in 
schools,  in  seminaries,  and  in  colleges.  Let  it  be  written  in  primers,  in  spelling 
books,  and  almanacs.  Let  it  be  preached  from  the  pulpit,  proclaimed  in  legislative 
halls,  and  enforced  in  courts  of  justice.  In  short,  let  it  become  the  political  reli- 
gion of  the  nation." 

As  I  said  before,  we  are  fundamentally  in  favor  of  prohibition 
and  we  feel  that  any  man  who  violates  the  prohibition  law,  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment,  as  long  as  it  is  in  force,  is  encouraging  anarchy  and  shows 
a  lack  of  that  patriotism  which  should  be  in  the  mind  and  heart  of  every 
true  American.  * 

CONSTITUTION  INSPIRED 

I  wish  to  say  to  our  friends  who  are  visiting  with  us  here  today, 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  believe  and  have  taught  from  the  beginning 
that  God  raised  up  the  men  who  wrote  the  Constitution  of  this  country ; 
that  it  was  an  inspired  document,  and  that  the  Lord  fought  on  the  side  of 
our  revolutionary  fathers. 

It  was  my  privilege  to  be  one  of  the  men  who  worked  to  make  a 


190 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


success  of  the  Liberty  Loan  drives.  I  was  chairman  of  two  of  the 
drives  for  the  State  of  Utah,  until  I  became  president  of  the  apostles. 
I  was  present  in  California  at  a  convention  of  people  known  as  the  Patri- 
otic Committee  of  One  Thousand.  And  then  we  had  a  smaller  meeting 
and  I  was  permitted  to  be  a  speaker  at  both  of  these  meetings.  In  the 
latter  meeting  there  was  quite  a  feeling  that  it  looked  as  though  the  ene- 
mies of  the  United  States  and  of  our  armies  were  going  to  win.  These 
men  were  saying  that  the  outcome  looked  very  dubious.  I  said :  "There 
are  some  people  who  have  no  fear  in  regard  to  this  matter,  and  those  peo- 
ple are  the  Mormons.  Why?  Because  we  not  only  believe  in  the  Bible,  but 
we  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  a  divinely  inspired  record,  that  it 
is  the  holy  scripture  of  the  forefathers  of  the  American  Indians,  that  it 
gives  a  sacred  history  of  many  of  their  prophets  and  others.  In  the 
Book  of  Mormon  we  find  the  statement  recorded  that  this  land — America 
— is  a  land  of  liberty,  choice  above  all  other  lands,  and  that  no  king  shall 
rule  here.  So  we  are  not  afraid  of  the  Kaiser  ever  winning  the  war. 
We  are  convinced  that  God  is  on  our  side  in  this  great  conflict. 

TRIBUTE  TO  JOSEPH  SMITH 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  change  that  has  come  and  the  manifesta 
tion  of  good  will  toward  our  people.  We  are  glad  that  people  are 
beginning  to  acknowledge  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  very  remarkable  and 
wonderful  man.  Although  it  has  been  quoted  by  me  a  great  many 
times,  I  am  going  to  close  my  remarks  by  quoting  from  Josiah  Quincy 
at  one  time  the  mayor  of  the  great  city  of  Boston,  a  man  who  was 
acquainted  with  many  leading  men  of  his  time.  He  paid  a  most  remark- 
able tribute  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  For  the  sake  of  our  friends 
who  are  here  as  tourists — the  Latter-day  Saints  have  heard  this  quota- 
tion many  times — I  have  decided  to  read  it  before  the  conclusion  of  my 
remarks  here  today. 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  textbook  for  the  use  of 
generations  yet  unborn  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this :  What  historical 
American  of  the  nineteenth  century  has  exerted  the  most  powerful  influence 
upon  the  destinies  of  his  countrymen?  And  it  is  by  no  means  impossible  that  the 
answer  to  that  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written:  'Joseph  Smth,  the  Mormon 
Prophet.'  And  the  reply,  absurd  as  it  doubtless  seems  to  most  men  now  living, 
may  be  an  obvious  commonplace  to  their  descendants.  History  deals  in  surprises 
and  paradoxes  quite  as  startling  as  this.  The  man  who  established  a  religion  in 
»this  age  of  free  debate,  who  was  and  is  today  accepted  by  hundreds  of  thousands 
as  a  direct  emissary  from  the  Most  High — such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  be 
disposed  of  by  pelting  his  memory  with  unsavory  epithets.  Fanatic,  imposter, 
charlatan,  he  may  have  been;  but  these  hard  names  furnish'no  solution  to  the 
problem  he  presents  to  us.  Fanatics  and  imposters  are  living  and  dying  every 
day,  and  their  memory  is  buried  with  them ;  but  the  wonderful  influence  which 
this  founder  of  a  religion  exerted  and  still  exerts,  throws  him  into  relief  before  us, 
not  as  a  rogue  to  be  criminated  but  as  a  phenomenon  to  be  explained.  The  most 
vital  questions  Americans  are  asking  each  other  today  have  to  do  with  this 
man  and  what  he  has  left  us.  ...  A  generation  other  than  mine  must  deal 
with  these  questions.  Burning  questions  they  are,  which  must  give  a  prominent 
place  in  the  history  of  the  country,  to  that  sturdy  self-asserter  whom  I  visited  at 
Nauvoo.  Joseph  Smith,  claiming  to  be  an  inspired  teacher,  faced  adversity  such  as 
few  men  have  ever  attained,  and,  finally,  forty-three  days  after  I  saw  him,  went 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


191 


cheerfully  to  a  martyr's  death.  When  he  surrendered  his  person  to  Governor 
Ford,  in  order  to  prevent  the  shedding  of  blood,  the  Prophet  had  a  presentiment  of 
what  was  before  him.  'I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,'  he  is  reported  to 
nave  said,  'but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's  morning.  I  have  a  conscience  void  of 
offense  and  shall  die  innocent.'  I  have  no  theory  to  advance  respecting  this  extra- 
ordinary man.    I  shall  simply  give  the  facts  of  my  intercourse  with  him. 

"A  tine-looking  man  is  what  the  passer-by  would  instinctively  have  murmured 
upon  meeting  the  remarkable  individual  who  had  fashioned  the  mold  which  was 
to  shape  the  feelings  of  so  many  thousands  of  his  fellow-mortals.  But  Smith  was 
more  than  this,  and  one  could  not  resist  the  impression  that  capacity  and  resource 
were  natural  to  his  stalwart  person.  I  have  already  mentioned  the  resemblance 
he  bore  to  Elisha  R.  Potter,  of  Rhode  Island,  whom  I  met  in  Washington  in 
1826.  The  likeness  was  not  such  as  would  be  recognized  in  a  picture,  but  rather 
one  that  would  be  felt  in  a  grave  emergency.  Of  all  men  I  have  met,  these 
two  seemed  best  endowed  with  that  kingly  faculty  which  directs,  as  by  intrin- 
sic right,  the  feeble  or  confused  souls  who  are  looking  for  guidance. 

"We  then  went  on  to  talk  of  politics.  Smith  recognized  the  curse  and  iniquity 
of  slavery,  though  he  opposed  the  methods  of  the  abolitionists.  His  plan  was  for 
the  nation  to  pay  for  the  slaves  from  the  sale  of  public  lands.  'Congress,'  he  said, 
'should  be  compelled  to  take  this  course,  by  petitions  from  all  parts  of  the  coun- 
try, but  the  petitioners  must  disclaim  all  alliance  with  those  who  would  disturb 
the  rights  of  property  recognized  by  the  Constitution  and  which  foment  insurrec- 
tion.' It  may  be  worth  while  to  remark  that  Smith's  plan  was  publicly  advocated 
eleven  years  later  by  one  who  has  mixed  so  much  practical  shrewdness  with  his 
lofty  philosophy.  In  18SS,  when  men's  minds  had  been  moved  to  their  depths  on 
the  question  of  slavery,  Ralph  Waldo  Emerson  declared  that  it  should  be  met  in 
accordance  'with  the  interest  of  the  South  and  with  the  settled  conscience  of  the 
North.  It  is  not  really  a  great  task,  a  great  fight  for  this  country  to  accomplish, 
to  buy  that  property  of  the  planter,  as  the  British  nation  bought  the  West  Indian 
slaves.'  He  further  says  that  the  'United  States  will  be  brought  to  give  every  inch 
of  their  public  lands  for  a  purpose  like  this.'  We,  who  can  look  back  upon  the 
terrible  cost  of  the  fratricidal  war,  which  put  an  end  to  slavery,  now  say  that  such 
a  solution  of  the  difficulty  would  have  been  worthy  of  a  Christian  statesman.  But 
if  the  retired  scholar  was  in  advance  of  his  time  when  he  advocated  this  disposi- 
tion of  the  public  property  in  1855,  what  shall  I  say  of  the  political  and  religious 
leader  who  had  committed  himself,  in  print,  as  well  as  in  conversation,  to  the 
same  course  in  1844?" 

STATESMANLIKE  AND  INSPIRED 

We  as  Latter-day  Saints  say  that  God,  through  his  inspired  prophet, 
Joseph  Smith,  pointed  the  way  to  save  the  vast  loss  of  human  life, 
the  breaking  of  hearts  and  the  vast  waste  of  money  which  the  rebellion 
brought,  by  selling  public  lands  to  buy  the  slaves. 

"If  the  atmosphere  of  men's  opinions  was  stirred  by  such  a  proposition,  when 
war-clouds  were  discernible  in  the  sky,  was  it  not  a  statesmanlike  word,  eleven 
years  earlier,  when  the  heavens  looked  tranquil  and  beneficent?" 

It  was  a  statesmanlike  and  inspired  word  from  the  prophet  of  the 
living  God. 

"Born  in  the  lowest  ranks  of  poverty,  without  book-learning  and  with  the 
homeliest  of  all  human  names,  he  had  made  himself  at  the  age  of  thirty-nine 
a  power  upon  the  earth.  Of  the  multitudinous  family  of  Smith,  none  had  so  won 
human  hearts  and  shaped  human  lives  as  this  Joseph.  His  influence,  whether  for 
good  or  for  evil,  is  potent  today,  and  the  end  is  not  yet. 

"I  have  endeavored  to  give  the  details  of  my  visit  to  the  Mormon  prophet 
with  absolute  accuracy.   If  the  reader  does  not  know  just  what  to  make  of  Joseph 


192 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smith,  I  cannot  help  him  out  of  the  difficulty.  I  myself  stand  helpless  before 
the  puzzle." 

All  over  the  wide  world  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
proclaimed  by  weak  humble  elders,  many  of  whom  have  never  stood  on 
their  feet  to  speak  in  public  before  they  were  sent  out  into  the  world. 
Men  and  women  from  every  denomination,  under  heaven,  every  religious 
sect,  and  in  every  country  where  the  Gospel  has  gone,  have  received  the 
witness  of  the  Holy  Spirit  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the 
true  and  the  living  God,  and  they  have  sacrificed  their  families,  their 
friends,  their  homes  and  their  associates.  Many  of  them,  in  earlier  days, 
have  been  turned  out  by  their  families,  as  things  of  evil  because  of  the 
testimony  that  had  come  into  their  hearts  of  the  divinity  of  this  work. 

TESTIMONY 

I  thank  God  for  the  knowledge  I  possess  by  the  inspiration  of  his 
Spirit  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh. 
And  I  thank  him  that  I  do  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the 
true  and  the  living  God.  I  rejoice  in  having  had  the  privilege  of  bearing 
this  testimony  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south,  in 
England,  Ireland,  Scotland,  Wales,  Germany,  France,  Belgium,  Holland, 
Switzerland,  Norway,  Sweden,  Denmark,  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands  and 
in  the  far-off  land  of  Japan.  May  God  help  me  and  every  Latter-day 
Saint  who  has  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are 
engaged  to  so  live  that  our  lives  may  proclaim  the  truth  of  this  Gospel, 
is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our  Re- 
deemer. Amen. 

I  want,  to  say  that  I  have  been  overwhelmed  with  gratitude  for  our 
marvelous  and  wonderful  pageant.  My  heart  goes  out  in  deep  gratitude 
to  those  who  have  taken  part  in  it,  I  mentioned  it  at  conference,  but  I 
want  to  mention  it  again  today. 

We  now  have  on  file  more  than  fifty  thousand  applications  for 
additional  tickets  to  the  pageant.  I  do  not  know  how  we  are  going  to 
accommodate  all  of  the  people  who  want  to  see  it.  But  we  rejoice  in  the 
loyalty  and, the  patriotism  of  our  choir  and  of  all  who  have  taken  part 
in  this  great  pageant.  And  we  are  grateful  because  of  the  fine  reception 
it  has  had  from  all  of  the  citizens  who  have  seen  it. 

A  pageant  entitled  "The  Messages  of  the  Ages"  having  been  presented  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle,  in  connection  with  the  celebration  of  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of  the 
organization  of  the  Church,  the  following  article  in  reference  to  the  pageant  was  prepared 
by  Elder  George  D.  Pyper  for  publication  in  thta  pamphlet: 

"THE  MESSAGE  OF  THE  AGES" 

On  April  6th,  1930,  in  celebration  of  the  one  hundredth  anniversary 
of  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
a  mammoth  production  of  "The  Message  of  the  Ages,"  a  sacred  pageant, 
was  given  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City.  It  was  at  first  intended 
that  the  production  should  be  given  the  evenings  of  only  one  week ;  but 


THE  MESSAGE  OF  THE  AGES"  193 


the  unusual  reception  accorded  the  work  by  the  people  made  it  necessary 
to  extend  the  time  one  week  more  and  then  another  and  continue  until 
May  5th — thirty  performances  in  all.  It  was  a  stupendous  undertaking 
and  surprised  and  thrilled  all  who  witnessed  it.  Including  the  people 
on  the  stage,  choir,  orchestra,  ushers  and  assistants,  fifteen  hundred 
people  took  part  in  the  performances.  It  is  estimated  that  approximately 
two  hundred  thousand  people  saw  the  pageant. 

The  members  of  the  pageant  committee,  who  prepared  and  staged 
the  collossal  affair  are  as  follows:  George  D.  Pyper,  former  manager 
of  the  Salt  Lake  Theatre,  and  second  assistant  General  Superintendent 
of  the  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union,  chairman ;  W.  O.  Robinson,  Field 
Secretary,  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association ;  Junius-  F. 
Wfells,  member  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Board  (who  died 
April  18th,  while  the  pageant  was  in  progress)  ;  Elbert  H.  Eastmond, 
professor  of  art,  Brigham  Young  Universitty,  Provo  ;  Charlotte  Stewart, 
City  Recreational  Superintendent,  member  General  Board  of  Y.  L.  M. 
I.  A. ;  Irma  Felt  Bitner  of  the  Community  Activity  Board,  Granite 
stake;  Ann  Nebeker  of  the  General  Board  Primary  Association;  An- 
thony C.  Lund,  Conductor  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir ;  Tracy  Y.  Can- 
non, Tabernacle  Organist  and  member  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 
Board ;  Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist ;  Bertha  A.  Kleinman, 
Secretary  Arizona  Temple ;  Leroy  Robertson  of  the  Music  Department 
B.  Y.  U.,  Provo,  and  A.  Hamer  Reiser,  Secretary,  member  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  Board. 

The  Pageant  Committee  worked  under  the  Church  Centennial  com- 
mittee consisting  of  Elder  George  Albert  Smith,  chairman  ;  Elders  David 
O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  B.  H.  Roberts, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  with  Leroi  C.  Snow,  secretary. 
The  epic  readers  were  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Lynn  Richards;  the  lyric 
readers,  Maud  May  Babcock,  Mrs.  Grace  Nixon  Stewart  and  Mrs.  Algie 
Eggertson  Ballif. 

Others  were  called  upon  to  aid  in  the  work  and  gave  their  time  gra- 
tuitously. 

The  aim  of  the  pageant  is  given  in  the  explanatory  note  printed  in 
the  official  program,  which  reads  as  follows : 

"  'The  Message  of  the  Ages'  is  a  presentation  of  the  outstanding 
features  of  the  Lord's  dealings  with  man  in  this  world  existence. 

"Be  it  known  that  the  Gospel,  planned  in  the  councils  of  heaven, 
was  known  to  the  ancients,  preached  by  Christ  in  the  Meridian  of  Time, 
and,  after  a  great  falling  away,  this  same  Gospel  was  again  revealed  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  restored  in  these  last  days,  a  century  ago, 
and  through  the  martyrdom  of  the  Prophet  and  the  faith  and  patience 
and  heroic  toil  of  his  people,  'the  Lord  hath  brought  again  Zion,'  and 
established  her  among  the  hills,  and  that  by  walking  in  his  ways,  the  chil- 
dren of  men  may  find  peace  and  happiness  and  the  'more  abundant 
life.' 

"The  Pageant  is  divided  into  a  prologue  and  three  periods,  viz : 
The  Ancient  Dispensations,  The  Messianic  Dispensation,  and  The  Dis- 


194 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


pensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times.  The  story  is  told  in  narrative  tab- 
leau and  processional,  with  organ,  orchestral  and  choral  music."  The  plan 
and  compilation  of  thp  scriptural  texts  taken  from  the  Bible,  Book  of 
Mormon,  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  were  the 
work  of  the  Pageant  committee.  The  poetical  text  wq.s  written  by  Mrs. 
Bertha  A.  Kleinman  of  Mesa,  Arizona;  who  quoted  quite  exten- 
sively from  the  poetry  of  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney  and  included  in  her 
work  a  poem  by  Theodore  F.  Curtis. 

The  Pageant  begins  with  a  fanfare  of  trumpets  and  musical  motif 
written  by  Leroy  Robertson  of  the  Brigham  Young  University  musical 
staff.  These  are  used  at  the  beginning  of  each  dispensation.  Then  fol- 
lows a  reading  giving  an  account  of  the  Council  in  Heaven,  the  plan  of 
salvation,  the  selection  of  Christ  the  First  Born  as  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  and  the  war  in  heaven  resulting  in  Satan's  being  cast  down,  tak- 
ing with  him  one-third  of  the  hosts  of  heaven  who  became  the  evil 
spirits  that  tempt  the  children  of  men. 

The  first  scene  is  a  mystic  representation  of  the  Creation  of  the 
world  and  while  this  is  being  shown  the  great  chorus  sings  a  part  of 
"The  Creation,"  by  Haydn,  with  solos  by  Wallace  Bennett  and  James 
H.  Haslam.  Following  this  is  shown  Adam  and  Eve  in  the  garden  of 
Eden  offering  sacrifice,  with  the  explanation  of  it  as  given  in  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price. 

The  story  of  the  flood  is  told,  ending  with  an  inspiring  tableau 
of  Noah  and  his  sons  and  their  families,  the  ark  and  the  bow  of  promise. 

The  children  of  Israel  in  Egypt  are  shown  in  bondage  and  in  or- 
nate and  "carnal  sumptuousness."  Upon  the  scene  comes  Moses  from 
the  burning  bush.  Here  a  stage  full  of  hundreds  of  people  in  colorful 
costumes  march  through  the  wilderness  to  the  foot  of  Sinai  where  the 
voice  of  God  speaks  forth  the  Ten  Commandments,  spoken  from  behind 
the  scene  by  Elder  John  M.  Knight.  Following  this,  reaching  across 
the  mammoth  stage,  is  revealed  a  frieze  of  the  ancient  seers,  prophets, 
judges  and  kings  of  the  old  and  new  worlds.  These  are  introduced 
through  the  graceful  draperies  with  titles  briefly  embodying  the  char- 
acter and  mission  of  each.  With  the  opening  of  the  draperies  and  the 
tableau  curtain  these  characters  form  part  of  a  composite  picture  depict- 
ing the  adoration  of  the  Ages,  the  Nativity,  the  Magi,  the  Shepherds  and 
"His  other  sheep"  on  the  Western  Hemisphere.  Music  from  Handel's 
"The  Messiah"  is  sung  with  solo  by  Emma  Lucy  Gates  Bowen.  This  is 
followed  by  an  impressive  representation  of  the  Sermon  on  the  Mount, 
the  voice  coming  through  a  brilliant  light,  the  beatitudes  being  spoken 
by  Elder  Winslow  F.  Smith.  The  Messianic  Dispensation  closes  with 
a  recital  of  the  Lord's  passion  and  a  tableau  of  the  resurrection  accom- 
panied by  Mascagni's  magnificent  Easter  anthem  "The  Lord  Now  Vic- 
torious." 

Part  I  of  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  opens  with  a 
prelude  showing  the  apostasy,  the  spurning  of  the  prophets,  the  famine 
for  the  word  of  God,  and  the  search  for  truth.  The  reading  is  accom- 
panied by  orchestral  music  from  "The  Restoration"  by  Brigham  Cecil 


"THE  MESSAGE  OF  THE  AGES" 


195 


Gates,  and  the  singing  of  part  of  "The  Nations  Bow  to  Satan's  Thrall," 
an  anthem  by  Joseph  J.  Daynes.  In  quick  succession  come  the  pic- 
tures of  the  restoration.  First  is  depicted  the  boy  prophet,  praying  in 
the  Sacred  Grove.  The  appearance  of  the  holy  Beings  is  represented 
by  brilliant  shafts  of  light.  The  chorus  sings  the  third  verse  of  "Joseph 
Smith's  First  Prayer"  (words  by  George  Manwaring,  music  by  A.  C. 
Smyth)  and  then  the  Voice  of  the  Lord  is  heard  again— "Joseph,  this 
is  My  Beloved  Son,  Hear  Him.*'  The  fourth  verse  of  "Joseph  Smith's 
First  Prayer"  follows  and  the  scene  closes  with  motif,  fanfare  and  cho- 
rus, "The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows  Flee."  (Words  by  Parley  P. 
Pratt,  music  by  George  Careless.)  After  this  the  Angel  Moroni  is  seen 
delivering  the  golden  plates  of  the  "Book  of  Mormon"  to  Joseph  Smith ; 
and  while  he  peruses  the  record  a  gorgeous  procession  of  the  ancient 
peoples  of  this  continent  passes  in  vision  across  the  stage,  to  the  choral 
accompaniment  of  "An  Angel  from  on  High,"  (words  by  W.  W.  Phelps, 
music  by  John  Tullidge.) 

Then  follow  picturizations  of  the  restoration  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood by  John  the  Baptist,  of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  by  Peter,  James 
and  John,  the  organization  of  the  Church,  the  appearance  of  Moses, 
Elias  and  Elijah  to  Joseph  and  Oliver,  and  the  restoration  of  the  Gos- 
pel in  its  fulness. 

"With  keys  to  bind  and  seal  and  ratify 
For  time  on  earth  and  for  eternity." 

Part  I  of  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times  closes  with  a 
representation  of  the  Elders  taking  the  Gospel  message  to  the  world. 
A  male  chorus  sings  "See  the  Mighty  Angel  Flying,"  by  Evan  Stephens. 

Part  II  of  the  last  dispensation  opens  with  an  epochal  reading, 
with  orchestral  accompaniment,  relating  the  momentous  events  of  the 
Church  history  including  the  move  from  Kirtland  to  Nauvoo,  the  Proph- 
et Joseph's  vision  of  the  West,  his  tragic  martyrdom,  the  singing  of 
"Hail  to  the  Prophet,"  and  the  selection  of  Brigham  Young  as  his  suc- 
cessor. The  ,curtain  is  raised  to  an  apostrophe  to  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Come  Ye  Saints,"  and  reveals  in  tableau  four  stages  of  the  western 
trek :  the  Mormon  Battalion,  a  camp  on  the  plains,  scouting  through  the 
mountains,  and  the  first  glimpse  of  Salt  Lake  valley.  As  the  chorus 
sings  the  pioneer  song,  the  bas-relief  becomes  animated  and  depicts  the 
entrance  into  the  valley  and  the  beginning  of  community  building.  Their 
trail  is  followed  by  other  companies  with  handcarts  and  afoot.  The  house 
lights  go  up  and  the  congregation  sings  "O  Ye  Mountains  High"  (words 
by  Charles  W.  Penrose.) 

In  scene  two  the  curtain  rises  upon  a  plastique — a  graven  statue  in 
stone  representing  the  composite  fundamentals  of  the  community  life 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints — Church,  home,  school,  work  and  play.  To  this 
conception  of  community  life  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  come  the 
folk  from  all  nations,  tongues  and  peoptej  preceded  by  the  reading  of  the 
prophecy  of  Isaiah  2 :2-4,  and  the  following  lines : 

"Across  the  seven  seas  Thy  children  come 
From  every  land  and  island  of  the  deep, 


196 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


To  merge  their  boundried  nationality 

And  rear  a  lasting  empire  unto  Thee. 

Of  such  as  these,  the  salt  of  all  the  earth, 

And  as  they  wend  in  hallowed  pilgrimage 

May  grace  of  Thine  enfold  and  lead  them  on 

To  lave  their  souls  in  Truth's  resplendant  flame. 

This  group,  made  up  mostly  of  natives  of  the  countries  where  the 
Gospel  has  been  preached,  enters  to  the  inspiring  "March  Heroique"  by 
Saint  Saens  and  the  curtain  falls  on  a  tableau  showing  the  nations  merged 
in  one  united  people. 

The  finale  is  a  tableau  symbolizing  the  activities  of  the  Church — 
Priesthood,  Temple  and  Genealogical  Groups — Relief  Society — Sunday 
School — Mutual  Improvement  Associations — Primary. 

The  epic  and  lyric  readings  in  the  closing  scene  are  a  song  of 
praise  for  the  centenary  of  truth,  a  pledge  to  carry  on,  and  a  prayer  for 
the  benediction  of  the  Lord  on  all  the  world,  "till  welded  nations  cease 
from  strife,  to  learn  the  way,  the  truth,  the  life." 

"Thus  in  Thy  handiwork,  O  Zion's  God,  Behold  what  Priesthood's  miracle  hath 
wrought ! 

From  worlds  primeval  to  the  ends  of  Time — the  Message  of  the  Ages  stand 
revealed !" 

The  chorus  then  sings  "The  Voice  of  God  is  Heard  Again,"  at  the 
conclusion  of  which  the  congregation,  with  hands  outstretched  toward 
the  light,  joins  the  choir  in  singing: 

"Praise  God  from  whom  all  blessings  flow, 
Praise  Him  all  creatures  here  below 
Praise  Him  above,  ye  heavenly  host, 
Praise  Father,  Son  and  Holy  Ghost." 


INDEX 


Address  by  the  First  Presidency   3 

Anderson,  Sister  May  146 

Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of   20 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J  153 


An  important  period,  153 — Testimonies  regarding  our  standards,  153 
— Church  progress  in  age  of  greatest  enlightenment,  154 — Gospel 
truths  harmonize  with  scientific  truths,  154 — The  glorious  future, 
155 — The  times  of  the  Gentiles,  155 — The  day  of  Israel,  156 — The 
land  of  Zion,  ,156 — Church  and  State,  156 — God's  purposes  to  be  ful- 
filled in  Russia,  157 — Saviors  of  the  house  of  Israel,  157 — The 
accomplishment  of  God's  purposes,  158 — Dead  but  not  silenced,  158. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O  Ill 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  112 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   51 

Extent  of  priesthood  membership,  51 — Fruits  of  the  Gospel,  52— 
Growth  of  the  Church,  52 — Effects  of  "Mormonism,"  53 — Restraint  of 
physical  appetites,  54 — Faith  produces  willing  obedience,  54 — Results 
of  observance  of  Word  of  Wisdom,  54 — Analysis  of  results,  55 — 
Effects  of  narcotics,  55 — Resistance  to  moral  temptations,  55 — Bene- 
fits of  high  moral  standards,  56 — The  marriage  relation,  56 — Marital 
standards,  56 — Faith  evidenced  by  liberal  giving,  57 — Individual 
growth,  57 — Material  progress,  57 — Renew  our  covenants,  58. 


Clawson,  President  Rudger   30 

Nebuchadnezzar  dreams  a  dream,  31 — An  unusual  request,  31 — 
The  king's  dream  made  known,  31 — The  interpretation,  32 — The 
fulfilment,  32 — The  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain,  32 — Its  organiza- 
tion, 33. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting.'   26 

First  Presidency's  Message   3 

Fourth  Day,  Morning  Meeting  132 

Fourth  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  152 

Fox,  Sister  Ruth  May  145 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   20 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   3 

Address  by  the  First   Presidency,  3 — The  Church,   5 — The  first 

century  of  the  primitive  church,  6 — A  new  Gospel  dispensation,  7 — 

What  of  the  future,  12. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   20 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  20. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   22 


Predecessors  great  and  good  men,  22 — Blessings  pronounced  upon 
General  Authorities,  22 — Blesses  brethren  of  priesthood,  23 — Grati- 
tude for  Relief  Society  organization,  23 — Devotion  and  sacrifice  of 
the  mothers,  23 — Invokes  blessings  upon  auxiliary  workers,  23 — 
Blessings  invoked  upon  the  choirs,  24— Presidents  of  missions  ac- 
complishing marvelous  work,  24 — Presidencies  of  stakes  and  bish- 
oprics of  wards,  24 — The  missionaries  and  their  accomplishments,  24 


198  •         GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


— Prayer  for  and  appreciation  of  patriarchs,  25 — A  prayer  for  the 
President  of  the  United  States,  25 — Blesses  Great  Britain  and  other 
nations,  25 — Blessings  invoked  upon  honest-hearted  everywhere,  25. 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   33 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney's  poem,  33. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J.   49 

Appreciation  for  floral  tributes,  49. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   50 

Cable  Message  from  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe,  50 — Feliciations  from 

Governor  of  Wyoming,  50 — Other  telegraphic  congratulations,  51. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   58 

Letter  and  message  from  Elder  Reed  Smoot,  58. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   87 

Choir  and  organ  broadcasts,  87 — Fulfilment  of  prediction,  88. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  108 

The  martyrdom,  108 — Endorses  remarks,  110 — Testimony  of  Joseph 

Smith  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  110. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  Ill 

Extra  conference  sessions,  111. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  143 

Insufficient  time,  132 — Sisters  to  speak  briefly,  143. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  147 

Introducing  Church  Commissioner  of  Education,  147. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  148 

Introducing  Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  148. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  152 

Appreciation  of  large  attendance,  152. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  162 

Introducing  Miss  Ruth  Pyrtle,  162. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  166 

Auxiliary  associations.    Church  expenditures,  166. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  167 

Introducing  Elder  George  D.  Pyper,  167. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  170 

Introducing  Elder  Junius  F.  Wells,  170. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  171 

Introducing  Elder  John  Wells,  171. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  173 

Introducing  Elder  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  173. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  175 

Report  of  Auditing  Committee,  175 — Statistical  report,  176 — Social 

statistics,  176 — Appreciation  of  devotion  of  temple  workers,  176. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  177 

To  speak  at  services  next  Sunday,  177 — Thanks  singers  and  others, 

177. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  181 


A  wonderful  change,  181 — One  particular  case,  181 — Letters  of  intro- 
duction, 182 — The  assistant  editor,  182 — Manuscript  returned,  183 — 
The  condition  in  Europe  today,  183 — Our  local  morning  newspaper, 
183 — A  vicious  opponent,  183 — Franchise  to  women,  183 — Plural  mar- 
riage, il85 — An  incident  in  Chicago,  185 — Fair  publicity,  186 — Our 
people  respected,  186 — Friendship  of  U.  S.  Grant,  186 — High  stan- 
dards, 187— Arizona  pioneers,  187 — By  their  fruits,  187 — Observers 
of  Word  of  Wisdom,  188 — Endorse  what  Lincoln  said,  189 — Consti- 


9 


INDEX  199 

tution  inspired,  189 — Tribute  to  Joseph  Smith,  190 — Statesman-like 
and  inspired,  191 — Testimony,  192. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  136 

Hinckley,  Elder  Alonzo  A  178 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   13 

Changes  wrought  in  last  century,  13 — God's  directing  hand,  14 — 
Covenant  with  Abraham,  IS — The  history  of  the  chosen  race,  IS — A 
choice  land,  17 — True  service,  18 — Standards  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  18 — Keeping  the  laws  of  God  and  of  country,  18 — Moroni's 
words  applicable  now,  19 — Blessings  upon  all  who  seek  righteous- 
ness, 19. 

Jenson,  Elder  Andrew  149 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L  123 

Kimball,  Elder  Jonathan  G   61 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R  140 


The  result  of  a  boy's  appeal,  140 — The  views  of  an  economist,  140 — 
Factors  in  statesmanship,  140 — The  manner  of  accomplishment,  141 — 
Both  poor  and  uneducated,  141 — A  clue  to  their  success,  142 — The 
power  behind  it  all,  142. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   78 

"What  seek  ye?"  78 — Unsuccessful  experiments,  79 — The  Church  as 
a  social  organization,  79 — Church  government  in  general,  80 — A  re- 
version to  the  teachings  of  Christ,  81 — Fundamental  elements,  81 — 
What  of  the  future?  82 — The  solution  of  social  problems,  82. 


McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W   98 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F  147 

Message  of  the  Ages  192 

Message  of  the  First  Presidency   3 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H  *.  118 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   26 


The  sixth  day  of  April,  26 — The  most  outstanding  accomplishment, 
27 — The  Perpetual  Emigration  Fund,  28 — To  build  up  Zion,  28 — 
Her  waste  places  comforted,  29 — The  Lord  has  done  it,  30 — Blessings 
through  obedience  and  sacrifice,  30. 


Pond,  Elder  Noah  S  115 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L  125 

Pyper,  Elder  George  D  167 

Pyrtle,  Miss  Ruth  163 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   72 


Meaning  of  immortality,  72 — The  plan  of  salvation,  73 — Early 
persecutions,  73 — Sacrifices  required  in  the  Gospel,  74 — Preaching  the 
Gospel  for  a  century,  74— Experience  same  as  in  former  days,  76 — 
Meaning  of  salvation,  77 — The  Prophet  Joseph's  inspired  words,  77. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  102 

One  hundred  years  ago,  ;102 — The  organization  of  the  Church 
projected,  103 — Intolerance  and  bitterness  encountered,  103 — A  new 
kingdom,  103 — That  which  prompted  opposition,  104 — Growth  in 
spite  of  opposition,  104 — The  cause  of  its  growth,  104 — The  out- 
standing accomplishment,  105— Two  great  armies,  105— Vital  gifts, 
106 — Interest  in  missionary  service  not  diminished,  106— Results 
more  vital,  107 — By  humble  men  and  women,  107 — After  a  hundred 
years,  108— A  rededication  to  a  worthy  cause,  108. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H   41 

Robison,  Sister  Louise  Y  144 


200 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   50 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   72 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R  114 

Smith,  Elder  David  A   83 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   64 

The  way  prepared,  65 — His  promises  fulfilled,  65 — God's  Church, 
66 — The  laborers  in  the  vineyard,  66 — The  words  of  the  book,  66 — 
The  Lord  working  among  the  nations,  67 — Growth  in  a  century, 
68 — Gratitude  for  blessings,  68. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G  173 

Grateful  for   return  of  health,   173 — Parentage  explained,   173 — 
Witnesses  of  the  Lord's  goodness,  174 — Blessings  for  all,  174 — 
Testimony  of  God's  work,  175. 
Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   89 


Reaffirmation  of  faith,  89 — Grateful  for  visions  of  the  Prophet, 
90 — Grateful  for  restoration  of  keys  of  authority,  90 — Thankful  for 
new  witnesses,  91 — Born  of  goodly  parents,  91 — Hyrum  Smith  held 
keys  jointly  with  the  Prophet  Joseph,  91 — Oliver  Cowdery's  ap- 
pointment, 92 — Keys  of  power  and  authority  taken  from  Oliver, 
92 — Another  witness  chosen,  92 — Joint  martyrs,  93 — Joseph's  opinion 
of  his  brother,  93 — The  children  of  the  Prophet,  94. 


Smoot,  Elder  Reed   58 

Announcement  of  truth  in  the  resurrection,  58 — Truth  revealed 
through  Joseph  Smith,  59 — Personal  desires,  60 — Blessing  in  keeping 
the  sabbath,  60. 

Sunday,  April  13,  1930,  Tabernacle  Services  178 

Talmage,  Elder  Tames  E   94 


"Morrnonism"  a  new  light,  94 — Condemnation,  salvation,  exaltation, 
95 — Gradations  in  the  hereafter,.  95 — Law,  not  caprice,  in  divine 
administration,  96 — Hell  hath  both  entrance  and  exit,  97 — The  Lord 


is  pleased  with  his  Church,  97. 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   87 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  Ill 

Welling,  Elder  Arthur  130 

Wells,  Elder  John  171 

Wells,  Elder  Junius  F  170 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   69 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   33 

The  lifted  ensign — a  call  to  Israel  (dramatic  poem),  33. 
Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F   133 


An  age  of  wonders,  133 — Errors  of  superstition,  133 — A  land  of 
liberty,  133 — A  straw  in  the  wind,  134 — The  marvelous  work  and 
wonder,  134 — The  signs  that  follow  belief,  134 — A  typical  instance, 


135 — Testimonies  of  the  truth,  135. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S  117 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  159 

Young,  Elder  Willard  169 


All  Students  ot  the  Book  of 
Mormon 

WILL  FIND  THE  BOOK 

An  Introduction  to  the  Study  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon 

By  J.  M.  SJODAHL 
To  be  mighty  interesting  and  illuminating 

"Some  at  the  content*  ot  the  book  has  appeared  in  the  IMPROVEMENT  ERA.  and 
other  Church  publications  during  the  last  ten  years,  and  friends  have  been  good 
enough  to  say,  repeatedly,  that  they  would  be  glad  to  have  those  contributions  in  some 
form  more  convenient  for  reference.  Acting  on  their  suggestion,  I  hare  collected 
some  papers  previously  published  and  others  that  now  appear  for  the  first  time,  and 
respectfully  submit  them  in  this  form  to  the  public  In  doing  so,  it  is  my  sincere 
prayer  that  the  testimony  here  offered  may  be  of  benefit  to  the  reader,  and  especially 
to  honest  seekers  after  the  truth." 

Price  $3.50 


"Time  is  the  supreme  test  of  a  prophecy.  He  who  undertakes  to  foretell 
events  must  know  that  Time  In  its  merciless  pursuit  will  find  him  put.  Of  all  the 
pretenses  of  the  false  prophet,  prophesying  is  the  most  hazardous...  Religious  impostors 
often  display  qualities  of  leadership  in  controlling  the  affairs  of  their  followers.  The 
more  modest  their  pretenses,  however,  the  more  likely  are  they  to  escape  detection 
and  exposure.  But  when  spiritual  leaders  assume  to  exercise  the  exalted  function 
of  prophecy,  and  have  the  courage  to  publish  their  prophecies,  they  place  their  reputa- 
tions before  the  bar  of  the  world,  and  as  the  weight  of  Time  presses  ont  the  vintage 
of  the  centuries  they  must  sink  to  a  deserving  oblivion  or  be  exalted  to  a  place  in  the 
skies.  Time  is  a  foe  of  Fraud,  but  the  never-failing  friend  of  Truth. 

Now  that  the  claims  of  Joseph  Smith  as  prophet  have  been  set  up  before  the 
world  for  a  century,  it  is  proper  that  the  verdict  of  Time  should  be  ascertained.  To 
disclose  these  findings,  this  volume  is  given  out.  Only  a  few  of  the  well-known 
prophecies  are  here  considered. 

All  this  is  clearly  set  forth  in 

"The  Prophecies  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  Their  Fulfillment" 

By  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS 

Price  $1.50 

Deseret  Book  Company 

"The  Home  of  Good  Books" 
44  East  on  South  Temple       P.  O.  Box  1793       Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


"  *  *  *  and  study  and  learn,  and  become 
acquainted  with  all  good  books  *  *  *  ." — Doc.  and 
Cov.  90:15. 

1   *•  * 


What  All  the  World  Believes 

This  work  embraces  an  account  of  the  Bibles  and  Beliefs  of  Mankind;  the 
Faiths  of  every  age  and  every  land  being  presented  impartially,  each  from  Its  own 
historical  standpoint. 

The  chapters  on  the  Scriptures  of  the  World,  and  the  digest  by  religions  of  the 
most  notable  Parliament  utterances,  are  from  the  pen  of  the  Kev.  Edward  C.  Towne, 
B.  A.,  whose  broad  scholarship  and  great  knowledge  of  the  World's  Religions  Systems 
was  fittingly  recognized  in  his  selection  as  one  of  the  principal  editors  of  the  Official 
Report  of  the  World's  Parliament  of  All  Religions.  These  chapters  offer  for  the  first 
time  to  the  general  reader  a  concise,  connected,  yet  scholarly  view  of  all  the  Bibles  of 
Mankind,  and  of  the  various  beliefs  as  to  the  inspiration  under  which  remarkable 
writings  have  been  held  to  be  Sacred  Scriptures. 

Price  $3.75 

A  New  Commentary  on 
Holy  Scripture 

INCLUDING  THE  APOCRYPHA 

Edited  by  Bishop  Gore,  D.  D*  Formerly  Bishop  of  Oxford;  H.  L.  Goudge,  D.  Dm 
Regius  Professor  of  Divinity,  Oxford;  A.  Guillaume,  Professor  of  Hebrew  and 
Semitic  Languages,  Durham. 

This  great  work  of  scholarship  stands  out  from  its  predecessors  in  several  ways: 

(1)  In  the  distinction  of  its  chief  editor,  who  had  done  so  much  to  reconcile 
the  old  faith  with  the  new  knowledge. 

(2)  In  the  unity  which  the  volume  achieves  owing  to  the  fact  that  the  bulk 
of  the  contributions  are  by  scholars  in  agreement  with  the  general 
outlook  of  the  editor,  who  in  addition  has  worked  over  the  whole 
material  and  left  upon  It  the  impress  of  his  unrivalled  experience. 

(t)  In  the  generous  amount  of  space  given  to  the  exegesis  of  the  important 
books. 

(4)   In  the  inclusion  of  the  Apocrypha,  and  the  consequent  bridging  of  the 

gap  between  the  two  Testaments. 
(6)   In  the  ease  and  convenience  with  which  it  can  be  used,  despite  its  1110 

pages  and  million  and  a  quarter  words. 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple       P.  O.  Box  1793       Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


