Ninety-First 

Annual  Conference 

of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


Held   in    the    Tabernacle   and  Assembly    Hall 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  3, 4,  5,  6, 1921 

With  a  Full  Report  of  the  Discourses 


50  Cents 


PUBLISHED  BY 

THE  DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


Below  is  shown  a  facsimile  of  the  double-column  style  of  page  used  in  the  new 
edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  eight-point  Bible  type  and  short  line  will 
add  wonderfully  to  the  ease  and  joy  of  reading. 

296  ALMA,   40. 


being  led  captive  by  the  will  of 
the  devil. 

14.  Now  this  is  the  state  of  the 
*  souls  of  the  wicked,  yea,  in  "dark- 
ness, and  a  state  of  awful,  fear- 
ful looking  for  the  fiery  indigna- 
tion of  the  wrath  of  God  upon 
them;  thus  they  remain  in  this 
state,  as  well  as  the  righteous  in 
"paradise,  until  the  time  of  their 
resurrection. 

15.  Now,  there  are  some  that 
have  understood  that  this  state 
of  happiness  and  this  state  of 
misery  of  the  soul,  before  the 
resurrection,  was  a  first  resurrec- 
tion. Yea,  I  admit  it  may  be 
termed  a  resurrection,  the  'rais- 
ing of  the  spirit  or  the  soul  and 
their  consignation  to  happiness 
or  misery,  according  to  the  words 
which  have  been  spoken. 

16.  And  behold,  again  it  hath 
been  spoken,  that  there  is  a  'first 
resurrection,  a  resurrection  of  all 
those  who  have  been,  or  who  are, 
or  who  shall  be,  down  to  the  res- 
urrection of  Christ  from  the  dead. 

17.  Now,  we  do  not  suppose 
that  this  first  resurrection,  which 
is  spoken  of  in  this  manner,  can 
be  the  resurrection  'of  the  souls 
and  their  consignation  to  happi- 
ness or  misery.  Ye  cannot  sup- 
pose that  this  is  what  it  meaneth. 

18.  Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  Nay; 
but  it  meaneth  the  'reuniting  of 
the  soul  with  the  body  of  those 
'"from  the  days  of  Adam  down  to 
the  resurrection  of  Christ. 

19.  Now,  whether  the  souls  and 
the  bodies  of  those  of  whom  has 
been  spoken  shall  all  be  reunited 
at  once,  the  wicked  as  well  as  the 
righteous,  I  do  not  say;  let  it  suf- 
fice, that  I  say  that  they  all  come 
forth;  or  in  other  words,  their 
resurrection  cometh  to  pass  "be- 


fore the  resurrection  of  those 
who  die  after  the  resurrection  of 
Christ. 

20.  Now,  my  son,  I  do  not  say 
that  their  resurrection  cometh  at 
the  resurrection  of  Christ;  but  be- 
hold, I  give  it  as  my  opinion,  that 
the  souls  and  the  bodies  are  "re- 
united, of  the  righteous,  at  the 
resurrection  of  Christ,  and  his 
ascension  into  heaven. 

21.  But  whether  it  be  at  his 
resurrection  or  after,  I  do  not 
say;  but  this  much  I  say,  that 
there  is  a  pspace  between  death 
and  the  resurrection  of  the  body, 
and  a  state  of  the  soul  in  happi- 
ness or  in  misery  until  the  time 
which  is  appointed  of  God  that 
the  dead  shall  come  forth,  and  be 
reunited,  both  soul  and  body,  and 
be  brought  to  stand  before  God, 
and  be  judged  according  to  their 
works. 

22.  Yea,  this  bringeth  about 
the  restoration  of  those  things  of 
which  has  been  spoken  by  the 
mouths  of  the  prophets. 

23.  The  "soul  shall  be  restored 
to  the  body,  and  the  body  to  the 
soul;  yea,  and  every  limb  and, 
joint  shall  be  restored  to  its  body;' 
yea,  even  a  hair  of  the  head  shall 
not  be  lost;  but  all  things  shall 
be  restored  to  their  proper  and 
perfect  frame. 

24.  And  now,  my  son,  this  is 
the  restoration  of  which  has  been 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  the 
prophets — 

25.  And  then  shall  the  right- 
eous shine  forth  in  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

26.  But  behold,  an  awful 'death 
cometh  upon  the  wicked;  for  they 
die  as  to  things  pertaining  to 
things  of  righteousness;  for  they 
are  unclean,  and  "no  unclean  thing 


g,  vet.  13.  %,  see  I,  2  Ne.  9.  i,  see  c.  ),  see  g,  Jac.  4. 
Ne.  2.  m,  vers.  19,  20.  n,  vers.  16,  18,  20.  o,  see  g,  Jac.  4. 
«,  AI.  11 :41 — 15.     41 :2.     See  d,  2  Ne.  2.     r,  see  q,  Al.  12. 


fc,  see  c.     I,  see  d,  2 
p,  vers.  6,  9,  11 — 15. 
Al.  11:37. 

About  B.  0.  73. 

We  trust  the  publication  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  this  improved  form  will 
result  in  a  more  devoted  study  of  this  distinctive  volume  of  Holy  Scripture,  and 
in  a  fuller  application  of  its  saving  precepts  and  principles  in  the  lives  of  our 
people  and  amongst  all  who  read  it. 

HEBER  J.   GRANT, 

ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

CHARLES    W.    PENROSE,        First    Presidency. 


NINETY-FIRST 

ANNUAL   CONFERENCE 

Of  the 

Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 

The  Ninety-First  annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  at  10 
a.  m.,  Sunday,  April  3,  1921. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
and  Anthony  W.  Ivins  ;  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Rudger 
Clawson1,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney2,  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  John  A.  Widtsoe ;  Presiding  Patriarch 
Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young, 
B.  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMur- 
rin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and  Levi  Edgar  Young ;  of  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric: Charles  W.  Nibley,  David  A.  Smith,  and  John  Wells;  Assistant 
Historian  A.  William  Lund.3 

There  were  many  Presidents  of  stakes  with  their  counselors,  patri- 
archs, bishops  of  wards,  and  numerous  other  prominent  officers,  men 
and  women,  representing  various  quorums  and  organizations  of  the 
Church. 

The  following  mission  presidents  were  in  attendance:  Winslow 
Farr  Smith,  Northern  States;  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  Central  States; 
Charles  A.  Callis,  Southern  States;  John  M.  Knight,  Western  States; 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Heber  C.  Iverson,  Northwestern 
States;  Rey  L.  Pratt,  Mexican;  Nephi  Jensen,  Canada,  and  Benjamin 
Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  assembly  to  order.  The  great 
auditorium  and  galleries  were  overfilled;  every  available  seating  and 
standing  space  being  occupied  by  people  from  all  parts  of  the  Church ; 

(1)  Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington;  and  George  Albert  Smith, 
presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 

(2)  David  0.  McKay  was  absent  on  a  world  tour  of  the  missions. 

(3)  Andrew  Jenson  was  absent  on  a  tour  of  the  missions  in  the  United 
States. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

and  there  were,  besides,  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  and 
at  the  Bureau  of  Information. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Zion  stands  with  hills  sur- 
rounded." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Wm.  A.  Hyde,  President  of  the  Po- 
catello  stake  of  Zion. 

"Behold  the  Lily"  was  sung  by  the  choir  and  the  Misses  Catherine 
and  Louise  Watson  as  soloists,  the  music  being  by  Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  indeed  delighted  to  see  such  a  wonderful  audience  here  this 
morning.  It  is  gratifying  to  note  the  interest  that  has  been  manifested 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  their  assembling  together,  throughout  the 
various  stakes  of  Zion,  during  the  past  six  mojnths,  in  fact,  during  the 
past  year,  in  their  houses  of  worship,  to  render  thanks  to  the  Lord  for 
his  goodness  and  mercy  to  them,  and  to  testify  of  the  blessings  they 
have  received. 

I  have  prepared  some  items  that  I  believe  will'  be  of  interest  to  this 
conference.  It  has  been  usual,  in  the  opening  address,  to  give  some 
items  regarding  the  condition  of  the  Church. 

INCREASED  ATTENDANCE  AT   SACRAMENT    MEETINGS. 

Our  reports  show  that  there  has  been  an  increased  attendance  at 
our  sacrament  meetings  and  fast  meetings,  all  over  the  Church.  I 
never  listen  to  the  revealed  prayers:  that  came  from  God,  to>  be  used  in 
our  sacrament  meetings,  wherein  we,  through  those  who  administer  the 
sacrament,  express  our  determination  to  remember  our  Lord  and  Re- 
deemer, Jesus  Christ,  and  to  express  our  willingness  to  obey  him  and  to 
keep  the  commandments  which  he  has  given  us  but  what  I  rejoice  in 
the  inspiration  of  Joseph  Smith,  in  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  giving  to  us  those  two  wonderful  sacramental  prayers,  those  two 
marvelous  covenants  that  all  Latter-day  Saints  make  when  they  assem- 
ble together  and  partake  of  the  sacrament.  I  rejoice  in  knowing  that 
there  has  been  an  increase  in  the  attendance  at  these  meetings,  and 
also  at  our  fast  meetings,  where  we  are  able  to  testify  of  the  many 
blessings  of  God  to  us  as  a  people.  I  am  grateful  to  our  young  peo- 
ple for  adopting  the  slogan  that  they  were  in  favor  of  developing  spirit- 
ual growth  by  attendance  at  our  sacrament  meetings.  The  attendance 
has  increased,  and  therefore  there  has  been  a  spiritual  growth. 

LOCAL  MISSIONARY  LABORS. 

The  missionary  work  which  was  outlined  in  our  general  Priest- 
hood meeting  at  the  last  October  Conference,  has  been  successfully 
conducted  in  most  of  the  stakes  and  has  been  the  means  of  doing  a 
great  deal  of  good.  This  labor  is  twice  blessed.  It  blesses  him  that 
gives  and  him  that  receives.  Some  of  the  choicest  meetings  that  I  have 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  3 

been  permitted  to  attend,  during  the  last  six  months,  have  been  gath- 
erings of  those  who  are  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  various 
stakes  of  Zion;  and  I  rejoice  to  know  that  many  people  who  have 
heard  the  word  of  God,  through  these  missionaries,  have  been  baptized 
into  the  Church.  I  believe  that  in  proportion  to  the  amount  of  labor 
that  has  been  put  forth  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion,  o'f  a  missionary 
character,  among  those  who  are  in  our  midst,  but  who  know  not  the 
gospel,  there  have  been  as  many,  if  not  more,  baptisms  than  there 
have  been  in  the  missionary  fields  throughout  the  different  parts  of  the 
world. 

TEMPLE  WORK. 

The  work  in  our  temples  is  progressing  very  satisfactorily;  the 
attendance  has  been  increased,  and  the  great  interest  throughout  the 
Church  in  temple  work  is  very  encouraging.  We  are  now  having 
four  companies  daily  in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple.  I  think  that  it  was  a 
very  wonderful  .example  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  temple 
work,  when  a  fast-day  was  declared  and  the  people  were  requested, 
last  September,  to  make  donations  to  aid  in  the  erection  of  the  temple 
in  Arizona,  that  over  one  hundred  eighteen  thousand  dollars  was  col- 
lected without  one  cent  of  expense,  by  donation  upon  the  special  fast- 
day  set  apart  for  that  purpose.  Nothing  could  more  conclusively  show 
the  loyalty  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  that  principle  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  revealed  again  to  the  earth,  namely,  the  right 
and  the  privilege  to  perform  labors  in  the  holy  temples  of  God  for 
those  of  our  ancestors  who  have  passed  beyond  the  veil  than  to  have 
upon  a  single  fast  day  throughout  this  Church  one  hundred  .eighteen 
thousands  dollars  contributed  by  the  people  for  the  erection  of  the  Ari- 
zona Temple. 

TEMPLE  BLOCK  LABORS. 

I  wish  to  commend  the  splendid  missionary  work  done  on  the 
Temple  Block,  under  the  direction  of  the  Bureau  of  Information,  to- 
gether with  the  free  organ  recitals  which  are  given  to  the  public.  The 
amount  of  good  done  by  this  excellent  labor  can  hardly  be  estimated. 
I  have  met  people  who  have  visited  the  Temple  Block,  from  Salt  Lake 
City  to  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  and  from  Salt  Lake  City  to  New  York, 
and  to  San  Francisco,  and  in  Canada  and  other  places,  and  I  know 
from  my  conversation  with  them  of  the  splendid  impression  that  has 
been  made  upon  their  minds  by  coming  in  contact  with  those  devoted 
men  and  women  who  are  working  upon  the  Temple  Block  here  as  mis- 
sionaries. 

CHANGES  OF  OFFICERS  IN  STAKES  AND  MISSIONS. 

There  has  been  a  slight  increase  in  the  payment  of  fast  offerings, 
although  there  is  still  room  for  much  improvement  in  this  matter. 
Since  our  last  Conference  there  have  been  two  new  Stakes  organized 
— North  Sevier  stake,  with  Moroni  Lazenby  as  president  and  South 
Sevier  stake,  with  John  E.  Magleby  president.  Since  our  last  Confer- 
ence, John  N.  Henrie,  President  of  the  Panguitch  stake,  has  passed 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

away.    He  was  a  faithful,  diligent  president  of  that  stake  of  Zion. 

Since  our  last  Conference  the  following  bishops  have  passed  away : 
Bishop  Herbert  Beck,  of  Centerfield  ward,  South  Sanpete  stake; 
Bishop  Godfrey  Fuhriman,  of  Providence  First  ward,  Logan  stake; 
Bishop  Walter  Roberts,  of  Sutherland  ward,  Deseret  stake,  and  Bishop 
Clyde  A.  Hammond,  of  Moab  ward,  San  Juan  stake.  We  extend  the 
blessings  of  the  General  Authorities  to  the  families  of  these  our 
brethren,  who  have  been  called  from  us  since  our  last  Conference. 

The  following  changes  in  stake  presidencies  have  been  made  since 
our  last  Conference:  Albert  Choules  has  succeded  Don  C.  Driggs  as 
President  of  the  Teton  stake,  William  J.,  Henderson  has  succeeded  the 
late  John  N.  Henrie,  as  president  of  the  Panguitch  stake.  Brother 
Driggs  was  released  with  the  love  and  confidence  and  blessing  of  his 
brethren,  as  the  President  of  the  Teton  stake. 

In  the  Netherlands  mission,  John  T.  Lillywhite  has  been  appoint- 
ed president,  to  succeed  John  A.  Butterworth.  Mark  Coombs  has  been 
appointed  as  President  of  the  Tonga  mission  to  succeed  Willard  L. 
Smith.  J.  Wiley  Sessions  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  South 
African  mission  to  succeed  Nicholas  G.  Smith.  I  have  received  a  let- 
ter from  Brother  Sessions  announcing  his  arrival  in  South  Africa. 
Brother  Sessions  had  been  trying  for  nearly  a  year  to  get  to  South 
Africa,  but  on  account  of  the  obstructions  put  in  the  way  by  officials, 
who  refused  to  vise  passports  and  to  allow  him  to  go  there,  we  have 
been  under  the  necessity  of  keeping  Brother  Nicholas  Groesbeck  Smith 
in  that  mission  another  year  after  we  felt  that  he  should  have  been 
released.  Brother  Smith  has  filled  a  splendid  mission  in  South  Africa 
and  will  return  with  the  love  and  blessings  of  all  the  authorities  of  the 
Church. 

;  VITAL  AND  EDUCATIONAL  STATISTICS. 

Seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  families  of  the  Church  in  the  Stakes 
of  Zion  own  their  homes.  The  birth  rate  of  the  Church  is  now 
38  per  1,000.  The  death  rate  is  9  per  1,000.  The  marriage  rate  is 
15.5  per  1,000.  There  has  been  expended  for  educational  purposes 
$718,497.19.  There  has  been  expended  for  tabernacle,  meeting  houses 
and  amusement  halls,  $346,203.17. 

MISSIONARY  ACTIVITIES. 

There  has  been  expended  for  missionary  activities  $511,709.97. 
This  does  not  take  into  aocount  the  amount  expended  by  the  individ- 
uals who  go  upon  missions,  nor  the  amount  that  they  lose  by  giving 
up  their  employment  to  go  upon  missions.  This,  I  am  sure,  would  be 
more  than  two  million  dollars  a  year,  in  addition  to  this  half  million 
dollars.  So  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  as  a  people,  are  giving  to  the 
world  an  object  lesson,  such  as  I  believe  no  other  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth  are  giving  of  their  love  of  God,  that  first  great  command- 
ment given  to  us,  and  also  the  second  commandment  to  love  our  neigh- 
bor as  ourselves.    When  we  stop  to  reflect  that  a  handful  of  people, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  5 

numbering  in  all  parts  of  the  world  only  five  hundred  thousand  men, 
women,  children  and  babies,  that  they  are  expending  $2,500,000  a 
year  in  time  and  means  to  proclaim  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  with  no  hope  of  earthly  reward,  we  find  an  object  lesson  of 
the  love  of  our  fellows  that  I  believe  cannot  be  matched,  in  fact  I  know 
it  cannot  be  matched,  in  all  the  wide  world. 

HELP  FOE  THE  POOR. 

There  has  been  expended  for  assistance  rendered  to  the  poor, 
$450,000,  of  which  $110,000  was  raised  during  a  single  fast  day  for 
the  relief  of  the  sufferers  in  Europe,  in  Armenia  and  other  places. 
There  has  been  expended  for  Temple  purposes  $158,715.29. 

I  received  a  splendid  letter  from  the  Near  East  Relief  Commit- 
tee, in  New  York,  which  I  failed  to  find  this  morning ;  but  a  day  or 
two  ago  the  following  letter  was  received  from  Herbert  L.  Gutterson : 

"New  York  City,  March  21st,  1921. 
"Mr.  Heber  J.  Grant, 
47  E.  South  Temple  St., 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

"Dear  Mr.  Grant:  We  are  in  receipt  of  your  letter  of  the  16th,  addressed 
to  Mr.  Hoover,  which  we  wish  to  acknowledge  in  his  behalf. 

"The  contribution  of  $68,318.21  from  your  Church  is  a  most  splendid  testi- 
monial to  the  cause,  which  was  the  basis  for  the  formation  of  the  European 
Relief  Council." 

"Please  accept  in  the  name  of  the  European  Relief  Council  as  a  body,  our 
most  sincere,  heartfelt  thanks  for  the  contribution  from  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints ;  and  we  beg  that  you  will  express  to  them  this 
sentiment  and  gratitude  for  their  co-operation. 
"With  kindest  wishes,  we  are, 

"Very  sincerely  yours, 

"Control  Committee. 

"By  Herbert  L.  Gutterson." 

DEATH  OF  PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Since  our  last  Conference  we  have  suffered  the  sorrow  of  part- 
ing with  one  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  President  Anthon  H. 
Lund,  than  whom,  from  the  day  of  his  baptism  as  a  boy  in  Scandi- 
navia, to  the  day  of  his  death,  no  more  faithful,  diligent,  energetic, 
painstaking,  conscientious  and  intelligent  worker  have  I  known  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  President  Lund  was  a 
man  beloved  by  all.  I  never  heard  one  soul  in  my  life  say  anything 
but  good  of  the  late  President  Anthon  H.  Lund.  His  ability  and  ca- 
pacity were  known  to  all  the  General  Authorities  as  that  of  a  great 
and  noble  and  a  true  man,  a  Latter-day  Saint  to  the  very  core.  We 
mourn  his  loss.  But  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  we  feel  that  he 
will  raise  up  others  to  assist  in  the  rolling  on  of  this  great  work.  We 
had  here  a  most  wonderful  audience  at  his  funeral,  the  house  being 
crowded  to  overflowing,  thus  showing  the  love  and  confidence  and 
the  respect  of  the  people  for  President  Lund. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

CHANGES    IN    THE   FIRST   PRESIDENCY. 

I  believe  that  in  the  promotion  of  Brother  Penrose  to  be  First 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  after  he  has  labored  from  the  time 
that  he  was  a  boy,  nineteen  years  of  age,  for  ten  long  years  in  his  native 
land,  proclaiming  the  gospel,  and  returned  to  that  land  to  fulfil  three 
more  missions,  a  total  of  over  twenty  years  of  missionary  work,  and 
then  labored  here  at  home  constantly  with  pen  and  tongue  to  pro- 
claim the  gospel ;  after  his  having  accomplished  all  this,  I  feel  sure  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  rejoice  in  the  promotion  of  this  aged  man,  now 
in  his  ninetieth  year,  to  be  the  First  Counselor  in  the  Presidency  of 
the  Church. 

I  believe  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  generally  have  approved  in 
their  hearts  of  the  selection  of  Anthony  W.  Ivins  to  be  my  Second 
Counselor,  to  become  a  member  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
We  have  not  yet  presented  these  names  but  they  will  be  presented 
before  the  Conference  adjourns. 

CHOICE  OF  A  NEW  APOSTLE. 

I  am  convinced  in  my  own  heart  that  if  President  Anthon  H. 
Lund  had  had  the  privilege  of  nominating  a  man  to  fill  the  vacancy 
caused  in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  through  his  death,  and 
through  the  promotion  of  Brother  Ivins,  that  he  would  have  named 
Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe.  The  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  has 
gathered  from  the  British  Isles  and  from  the  Scandinavian  countries 
many  thousands  upon  thousands  of  honest,  energetic,  faithful,  loyal, 
true  Latter-day  Saints.  Scandinavia,  second  only  to  the  British  Isles, 
has  furnished  great  numbers  of  converts  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  believe  that  the  Saints  generally  approve  of 
those  who  have  been  called  to  these  positions.  I  am;  convinced  beyond 
a  shadow  of  a  doubt  that  the  Presidency  and  the  Apostles,  under  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord,  nominated  the  proper  man  to  fill  the  vacancy 
in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  T  have  absolutely  no  doubt 
but  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  will  sanction  our  having  set  apart  and 
ordained  to  the  Apostleship  Brother  John  A.  Widtsoe. 

HEARTY  RESPONSE  TO  INSTRUCTIONS  AT  LAST  CONFERENCE. 

I  rejoice  in  what  I  believe  has  been  a  response  to  the  speeches 
made  here  six  months  ago.  The  keynote  of  our  Conference  at  that  time 
was  to  obey  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  have  in 
our  hearts  a  love  of  God,  a  love  of  our  fellows,  to  have  in  our  hearts 
the  spirit  of  forgiveness  and  of  long-suffering,  to  have  in  our  hearts  a 
desire  to  do  those  things  that  would  be  pleasing  and  acceptable  to  our 
heaveniy  Father ;  and  I  feel  grateful  that,  during  the  past  six  months, 
there  has  been  a  spiritual!  growth.  I  believe  that  there  has  been  a  bet- 
ter feeling,  that  some  of  the  animosities  that  were  existing  six  months 
ago,  because  of  political  differences,  have  disappeared,  now  that  men 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  7 

have  had  time,  figuratively  speaking,  to  "cool  off."  I  would  rejoice 
beyond  all  the  power  which  God  has  given  me  to  express  my  feelings, 
if  the  Latter-day  Saints  could  express  their  opinions  in  times  of  pol- 
itical campaigns  without  animosity,  without  vindictiveness,  that  they 
could  simply  proclaim  those  principles  in  which  they  believe,  without 
indulging  in  personalities. 

CHANGE  OF  SENTIMENT  FAVORING  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

I  think  that  we  as  a  people  have  very  great  cause  to  rejoice  in 
the  era  of  good  will  and  fellowship  that  is  existing  today  for  us  as 
a  people,  among  those  not  of  our  faith,  in  comparison  with  the  con- 
ditions that  existed  some  years  ago.  I  do  not  know  of  any  single  thing 
that  has  happened  in  my  experience,  during  the  long  time  that  I  have 
been  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  that  has  impressed 
me  more  profoundly  with  the  change  of  sentiment  towards  the  lat- 
ter- day  Saints  than  the  reception  that  was  accorded  to  mei  December 
last  when  I  went  to  Kansas  City  and  delivered  a  speech  upon  the  ac- 
complishments of  "Mormonism."  When  I  reflect  upon  the  fact  that 
in  the  leading  hotel:  in  that  wonderful  and  progressive  city — (I  don't 
know  that  all  of  the  people  here,  in  fact  I  feel  sure  that  perhaps  the 
majority  of  those  here  are  not  aware  of  the  fact  that  although  *that 
city  is  only  one-half  as  large  as  St.  Louis,  its  bank  clearings  are  larger 
than  those  of  St.  Louis,  that  in  some  particular  items  they  stand  first, 
in  commerce,  among  all  the  cities  of  the  United  States ;  and  I  do  not 
know  whether  you  are  aware  of  the  fact  that  they  have  one  paper  there 
that  is  conceded  to  be  one  of  the  six  leading  newspapers  of  the  United 
states,  the  Kansas  City  Star)- — I  was  permitted  to  stand  up  within  ten 
miles  of  Independence,  the  place  from  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
were  expelled,  by  an  expulsion  and  exterminating  order  of  the  Gov- 
ernor of  the  State,  Governor  Boggs,  and  to  proclaim  the  accomplish- 
ments of  the  Latter-day  Saints ;  to  relate  the  prophecies  of  Joseph 
Smith,  to  give  to  those  men  that  were  there  assembled — over  three 
hundred  of  the  leading  influential  business  men  of  the  city — the  testi- 
mony of  Josiah  Quincy  regarding  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith ;  to  re- 
peat to  them  the  great  Pioneer  hymn,  "Come,  come,  ye  Saints ;"  to  re- 
late the  hardships,  the  drivings  and  the  persecutions  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  to  have  that  body  of  representative  men  receive  that  ad- 
dress with  approval,  applaud  it  in  many  places,  and  many  of  them 
come  to  me  after  the  meeting  and  shake  hands  and  congratulate  me 
upon  the  address;  and  to  have  some  of  the  members  of  the  Board  of 
Directors  of  that  great  club — the  Knife  arid  Fork  Club  of  Kansas  City 
— (which  I  have  been  informed  is  the  second  greatest  dinner  club  in 
the  United  States,  the  Gridiron  of  Washington  standing  first)  to  have 
them  say  that  they  hoped  for  a  return  date  so  that  they  could  hear 
more  of  our  people;  and  then  stop  to  reflect  upon  the  fact  that  the 
Prophet  and   his    followers,   in  the  early  days,   were   expelled    from 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Missouri ;  that  many  of  them  were  murdered ;  that  all  kinds  of  crimes 
were  committed  upon  the  people ;  that  their  property  was  confiscated ; 
that  we  have  never  received  anything  for  our  property  that  belonged 
to  us  in  that  section,  that  today  some  o  fthe  valuable  country  that  we 
traveled  over  there  is  the  very  property  that  our  people  owned,  (for 
when  you  follow  up  many  abstracts  of  valuable  property  you  will  find 
that  the  title  centers  in  the  bishop  of  the  "Mormon"  Church,  and  only 
because  of  lapse  of  time  have  people  secured  a  proper  title  to  these 
lands,  and  not  because  it  was  ever  paid  for) — I  say  to  stop  and  reflect 
that  the  drivings  and  the  persecutions  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  of 
which  no  tongue  can  tell  and  no  pen  can  paint  th.e  conditions ;  and 
then  to  realize  that  there  is  a  feeling  in  that  community  now,  among 
the  people  residing  in  the  very  place,  so  to  speak,  from  which  Presi- 
dent Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  of  the  living  God,  arid  others  were 
driven  out;  to  be  invited  to  go  there  and  be  asked  to  talk  of  the  ac- 
complishments of  "Mormonism,"  and  to  have  that  talk  received,  with 
open  arms,  shows  the  most  wonderful  change  of  sentiment. 

A  short  time  ago  the  editor  and  publisher  of  the  Coast  Banker  a 
paper  that  has  a  circulation  all  over  the  Twelfth  Federal  Reserve  bank- 
ing district,  asked  me  to  write  ah  article  on  the  accomplishments  of  our 
people.  I  did  not  have  time  to  write  the  article,  but  I  sent  him  my 
speech  delivered  before  the  Knife  and  Fork  Club,  and  told  him  if  that 
would  fill  the  bill,  I  would  be  very  glad  indeed  to  have  him  publish  it. 
Of  course,  I  realized  it  was  a  very  long  speech,  because  I  talked  pretty 
rapidly  and  I  talked  for  fifty-seven  minutes,  but  he  published  all  that 
I  said.  He  published,  besides,  an  introduction  of  such  a  character  that 
I  am  very  proud  of  it.  I  thanked  him  kindly,  when  I  met  him,  for  this 
introduction  to  my  speech. 

Now,  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  pray  the 
Lord  that  we  may  remember  that  same  keynote  that  was  given  here 
six  months  ago — keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Why,  you 
know,  if  we  can  just  remember  those  first  two  great  things,  to  love  the 
Lord  our  God  with  all  our  hearts,  with  all  our  might,  with  all  our 
mind,  with  all  our  strength,  and  to  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves,  we 
are  sure  to  walk  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path  that  shall  lead  us  to 
life  eternal.  God  bless  you  one  and  all,  and  all  Israel,  and  all  the 
honest,  the  world  over,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

The  Choir  sang,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  music  by  B.  Cecil  Gates. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  feel  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  to  so 
many  of  our  people  in  the  writing  of  the  beautiful  music  that  we  have 
for  our  hymns,  and  for  selections  such  as  this  that  we  have  just  listened 
to.  May  God  bless  our  composers  and  our  poets  who  have  given  us 
such  inspired  words  and  such  inspiring,  sweet  music. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  me  to  behold  this  vast  congregation,  com- 
posed chiefly  of  Latter-day  Saints,  gathered  from  different  portions 
of  the  Church,  also  to  listen  to  the  remarks  that  have  been  made  by  our 
President.  I  was  in  hopes  that  he  would  have  continued  his  remarks 
and  taken  up  the  time  of  our  first  session  of  this  Conference,  for  sev- 
eral reasons.  One  of  them  is  that  I  was  doubtful,  this  morning,  when 
I  arose  from  my  bed,  whether  I  would  be  able  to  get  here.  I  expe- 
rienced a  violent  vertigo,  attack  of  swimming  of  the  head.  In  these 
troublous  times  and  in  the  great  and  swift  changes  that  are  taking  place, 
there  is  enough  to  turn  anybody's  head,  bigger  heads  than  mine  a  great 
deal.  But  I  have  been  able,  since  coming  into  this  congregation,  to 
compose  myself  and  to  listen  to  the  inspired  utterances  of  our  President, 
and  they  have  had  a  splendid  effect  upon  me,  physically  as  well  as  men- 
tally and  spiritually. 

REJOICES   IN   CHANGES  OF  SENTIMENT   IN    FAVOR  OF  THE  SAINTS. 

I  rejoice  in  these  changes  which  he  has  spoken  of,  that  have  taken 
place  among  the  people  who  are  not  of  our  faith.  So  many  are  now 
beginning  to  understand  a  little  about  "Mormonism,"  that  it  does  not 
consist  of  one  peculiarity  which  has  been  proclaimed  throughout  the 
world  as  our  chief  tenet.  They  are  beginning  to  understand  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  the  "Mormons,"  are  a  practical  people,  that  they  have 
a  practical  faith,  and  that  they  da  things,  and  the  knowledge  of  this  is 
coming  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  more  rapidly  than  I  ever  expected  it 
to  come.  I  always  had  faith,  from  the  time  that  I  was  a  boy  and  joined 
the  Church — the  only  one  of  my  family  who  did  so,  that  "Mormonism," 
as  it  is  called,  would  prevail,  that  the  kingdom  of  God,  which  it  was  and 
is  to  me,  would  overcome  all  things,  and  that  the  name  of  the  true  and 
the  living  God  would  be  brought  before  the  world  ultimately  for  their 
adoration  and  their  obedience.  I  never  had  a  doubt  about  the  triumph 
of  this  great  organization,  established  by  the  Almighty,  by  the  personal 
action  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  and', the  Holy  Ghost;  and  today  I  re- 
joice in  my  soul  to  see  the  evidence  of  the  progress  of  this  work,  here 
on  these  tabernacle  grounds,  where  people  have'  assembled  at  our  first 
session  in  such  numbers  that  the  Assembly  Hall  has  to  be  used  for  an 
overflow  meeting  and  the  grounds  themselves  for  another,  at  the  be- 
ginning of  our  Conference.  Thank  the  Lord,  praises  and  blessings  be 
to  his  Holy  Name ! 

GOD  OUR  ETERNALj,  FATHER  AND  HIS  SON   JESUS  CHRIST, 

The  beautiful  music  we  have  just  listened  to  called  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  brings  before  our  attention  that  prayer  which  Jesus  uttered; 
not  that  people  were  always  to  repeat  it,  although  it  is  a  mighty  good 


10  GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 

thing  that  so  many  people  do  so,  even  if  they  do  not  realize  what  it 
means.  Ever  since  I  was  a  little  boy,  I  have  heard  that  prayer  re- 
peated in  the  churches  in  the  world,  before  I  ever  knew  anything  of 
this  work.  It  begins  with  a  truth  that  all  people  ought  to  understand, 
and  that  is  that  God  is  our  Father,  that  he  dwells  in  heaven ;  that  he 
is  not  and  cannot  be  personally  omnipresent,  as  is  taught  in  the  heathen 
and  so-called  Christian  churches  of  the  world;  that  he  is  a  divine 
being,  a  personage,  a  perfect  and  perfected  man  so  to  speak.  We  do 
not  say  that  God  is  a  man ;  he  is  a  perfected  man ;  he  is  exalted  above 
all  mankind,  and  he  is  our  Father.  He  begat  us  in  our  original  being, 
as  his  sons  and  daughters,  verily  and  [literally  and  truly.  Jesus  Christ 
who  uttered  that  prayer  is  his  Son  just  as  we  are,  in  the  spirit,  only  he 
was  the  first-born.  There  is  a  truth  connected  with  that  principle  which 
we  should  all  understand,  for  Jesus  Christ  himself  has  declared  it.  He 
says  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints :  "I  also  was 
in  the  beginning  with  the  Father,  and  am  the  first-born.  Ye  also1  were 
in  the  beginning  with  the  Father,  that  which  is  spirit."  That  part  of 
mankind  which  is  spirit  was  in  the  eternal  world  with  the  Father,  before 
this  world  began,  as  we  read  in  the  first  and  second  chapters  of  the 
Epistle  to  the  Hebrews,  which  I  commend  to  your  attention,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.    We  learn  a  little  ;of  this  fact : 

"God,  who  at  sundry  times  and  in  divers  manners  spake  in  time  past 
unto  the  fathers  by  the  prophets, 

"Hath  in  these  last  days  spoken  unto  us  by  his  Son,  whom  he  hath 
appointed  heir  of  all  things,  by  whom  also  he  made  the  worlds; 

"Who  being  the  brightness  of  his  glory,  and  the  express  image  of  his 
peison,  and  upholding  all  things  by  the  word  of  his  power,  when  he  had 
by  himself  purged  our  sins,  sat  down  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Majesty  on 
high." 

He  was  the  firstborn  in  this  great  family  of  the  Almighty,  the 
Creator  of  the  worlds,  and  they  were  made  by  him,  through  and  by 
Jesus  Christ,  his  Son.  Some  of  our  brethren  get  the  idea  that  he  could 
not  have  been  the  creator  of  this  world,  as  is  declared  in  the  latter-day 
revelations,  that  he  was  with  the  Father  in  this  work,  and  that  "all 
things  were  made  by  him,  and  without  him  was  not  anything  made  that 
was  made,"  as  we  read  in  the  opening  chapter  of  the  writings  of  John 
his  beloved  disciple  and  apostle. 

JESUS  CHRIST  THE  ONLY  BEGOTTEN  OF  THE  FATHER  IN  THE  FLESH. 

We  should  understand  this,  that  Jesus  the  Christ  came  into  the 
world,  in  the  meridian  of  time,  to  be  the  Only  Begotten  Son  of  God 
in  the  flesh.  That  is  a  doctrine  established  in  this  Church,  and  we  have 
received  it  by  revelation,  so  we  can  put  aside  any  doubts  or  speculations 
or  contentions  in  regard  to  it.  That  was  when  he  came  and  taber- 
nacled, being  in  the  image  of  his  Father,  the  "express"  image  of  his 
Father  before  he  came  into  the  world;  and  with  power,  as  the  heir 
of  all  things,  God  honored  him  and  loved  him,  and  he  knew  the  faith- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  11 

fulness  in  all  the  work  entrusted  to  him,  and  knew  beforehand  what  he 
would  do  when  he  came  on  the  earth  to  be  the  Redeemer  of  mankind. 
This  is  a  subject  that  I  do  not  want  to  dwell  upon  now,  because  I  do 
not  want  to  take  up  too  much  time,  but  it  is  a  most  important  thing  in 
the  progress  and  development  of  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty.  Jesus, 
as  we  call  him,  the  Nazarene,  the  son  of  Mary,  of  the  offspring  of  David 
— therefore  the  Son  of  man — was  the  Son  of  God,  who  is  the  Father  of 
his  spirit.  So,  in  the  beginning  he  was  with  God  and  was  the  firstborn 
of  this  great  family,  and  on  the  earth  he  was  the  Only  Begotten  of 
the  Father  in  the  flesh.  He  lived  and  died  as  a  Son  of  God  in  all 
things,  and  was  raised  from  the  dead  and  appeared  to  his  disciples.  In 
these  last  days  he  appeared  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  his  boy- 
hood, and  has  manifested  himself  personally  several  times,  on  several 
occasions,  and  he  lives  as  the  Son  of  God  and  our  eldest  brother  in  the 
spirit.  The  declaration  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  in  that  remark- 
able condensation  of  principles  which  are  called  The  Latter-day  Saint's 
faith,  begins  with :  "We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 

THE    HOLY    GHOST,    A    PERSONAGE    OF    SPIRIT. 

In  regard  to  the  Holy  Ghost,  I  want  to  say  a  few  words  this 
morning,  since  I  have  this  grand  opportunity,  in  reply  to  questions  and 
letters  that  come  to  us,  in  the  President's  office,  concerning  this  mat- 
ter. There  seems,  in  spite  of  all  the  preachings  and  writings  and  ex- 
planations and  expoundings  of  the  Church,  some  confusion  of  mind 
in  regard  to  this  question  about  the  Holy  Ghost.  "Is  the  Holy  Ghost 
a  personage?"  So  we  are  told  in  the  130th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  which  contains  several  grand  principles  uttered  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  One  is  that  God  is  a  personage  of  tabernacle, 
the  Son  also,  but  the  Holy  Ghost  is  "a  personage  of  spirit."  This 
seems  to  create  great  wonderment  among  some  of  our  people,  because 
they  confound  the  two  terms  "Holy  Spirit"  and  "Holy  Ghost"  and 
think  that  there  is  a  difference  in  their  meaning.  There  is  a  difference 
in  one  sense  of  the  word.  We  attach  the  words  "the  Holy  Ghost"  to 
the  personage  of  spirit ;  and  we  attach  the  name  "Holy  Spirit"  to  that 
universal  means  by  which  God  and  Jesus  Christ  are  omnipresent.  That 
divine,  beginningless  and  boundless  essence  is  called  the  Holy  Spirit ; 
but  the  two  terms  really  mean  the  same  thing,  so  far  as  language  is 
concerned.  Brother  Lund  used  to  talk  a  good  deal  about  the  one  Ger- 
man word  which  means  the  Holy  Ghost  as  well  as  the  Holy  Spirit.  The 
word  means  "Ghost"  but  it  attaches  to  the  influence  which  we  call 
spirit,  'the  spirit  of  man,  and  to  the  Holy  Ghost  the  Comforter.  Now 
let  me  say  just  two  or  three  words  on  that  point,  to  settle  this  question. 
In  the  fifth  chapter  of  the  first  epistle  of  John,  the  beloved  disciple,  we 
read  this : 

"There  are  three  that  bear  record  in  heaven,  the  Father,  the 
Word," — that  is  the  name  that  John  generally  attached  to  the  Savior — 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

"In  the  beginning  was  the  Word,  and  the  Word  was  with  God,  and  the 
Word  was  God."  That  is  applied  to  the  Son,  the  first  born  in  the 
spirit  and  the  only  begotten  in  the  flesh— "There  are  three  that  bear 
record  in  heaven,  the  Father,  the  Word,  and  the  Holy  Ghost;  and 
these  three  are  one."  Some  people  get  very  much  confused  in  regard 
to  that  oneness  or  unity.  There  are  three  persons  united  as  one  God, 
one  Deity,  and  it  takes  three  of  them  to  bear  record  in  heaven;  or 
rather,  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  explained  very  fully,  that  in  all 
the  presidencies  that  are  divine,  there  are  three.  The  Father,  the  Son 
and  the  Holy  Ghost  are  three  personags.  Two  are  persons  of  taber- 
nacle. Now,  questions  arise  as  to  whether  the  Holy  Ghost  will  ever 
get  a  body.  I  do  not  know  anything  about  that,  because  the  Lord 
has  not  revealed  it ;  and  if  our  brethren,  while  trying  to  be  wise  when 
they  are  not  always  so,  would  leave  out  of  their  preachings  and  their 
speculations  that  which  they  think  may  be  in  the  future,  but  do  not 
know,  there  will  be  a  good  deal  of  contention  avoided. 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  a  personage  of  spirit,  as  Jesus  Christ  was 
when  he  was  Jehovah.  He  was  Jehovah  from  the  beginning  of  the 
world,  according  to  the  history  we  have  in  the  Old  Testament  scrip- 
tures. He  was  a  personage  of  spirit,  and  he  came  here  to  the  earth  that 
he  might  be  exactly  like  his  brethren  and  like  his  Father,  and  have  a 
body  made  out  of  the  lower  elements  of  the  universe.  The  elments 
of  his  body  are  eternal,  and  the  elements  of  the  spirit  are  eternal, 
without  beginning;  but  there  was  a  beginning  to  his  body,  when  he 
was  born  of  the  virgin  Mary,  and  God  was  his  Father.  His  power 
overshadowed  the  virgin  and,  as  she  was  told  by  the  angel  Gabriel, 
the  offspring  was  the  Son  of  God.  Jesus  Christ  taught  that  doctrine 
to  his  apostles  and  made  it  very  plain,  I  think,  as  it  stands  in  the  New 
Testament :  "Our  Father  which  art  in  Heaven" — not  our  Father  who 
personally  is  throughout  all  space,  without  center  and  without  circum- 
ference ;  but  his  dwelling  place  is  in  heaven.  The  Lord  says :  "Heaven 
is  my  throne;  the  earth  is  my  footstool;"  and  to  the  ancient  Jews  he 
cried:  "Where  is  the  house  that  ye  build  unto  me,  and  where  is  the 
place  of  my  rest?"  Our  Father  is  a  personage  of  tabernacle.  He  has 
a  spiritual  body,  as  well  as  a  spiritual  existence  besides  the  physical 
body;  the  elements  in  him  are  joined  inseparably.  One  of  the  reve- 
lations of  God,  the  88th  Section  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  declares 
that  "the  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  inseparably,  con- 
nected, receiveth  a  fulness  of  joy;  and  when  separated  man  cannot 
obtain  a  fulness  of  joy." 

The  spirit  of  man  is  the  offspring  of  God.  It  has  affinity  with 
spiritual  things.  In  its  spiritual  being  and  nature  it  is  above  earthly 
things,  but  when  tabernacled  in  a  body,  it  becomes,  to  a  great  extent, 
subject  to  the  laws  that  govern  earthly  things.  When  death  comes  as 
we  call  it,(  the  separation  of  the  spirit  and  the  body,  aa|  we  learn  in  the 
Scriptures,  "the  body  without  the  spirit  is  dead,"  when  that  separation 
comes,  then  the  spirit  goes  back  to  its  former  condition,  to  this  extent, 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  13 

that  it  is  without  the  natural  body  until  the  resurrection.  But  the 
necessity  for  the  resurrection  is  shown,  very  plainly,  when  we  under- 
stand that  only  by  these  affinities  can  we  obtain  a  fulness  of  joy.  That 
which  is  spirit  in  our  nautre  has  affinity  with  things  that  are  above. 
The  natural  body  has  affinity  with  the  things  that  are  grosser  or  be- 
neath. But  when  the  two,  spirit  and  element,  are  inseparably  con- 
nected— quickened  by  the  Holy  Spirit — and  I  mean  by  that  the  spirit 
which  is  called  the  spirit  of  life  and  light,  then  perfection  can  come  to 
the  individual,  and  without  that  union  there  cannot  be  obtained  a 
fulness  of  joy.  ' 

Now  the  pattern  of  it  all  is  in  the  life  and  service  and  devotion  and 
death  of  Jesus  our  Redeemer,  and  his  resurrection  from  the  dead,  his 
return  into  the  presence  of  God,  where  he  sits  with  him  on  the  ever- 
lasting throne.  But  about  the  Holy  Ghost,  what  about  that  ?  Why,  he 
is  a  personage  of  spirit,  an  individual,  a  being,  and  he  bears  witness 
of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son  and  makes  them  plain  to  man.  He  is  called 
by  the  Savior,  the  "Comforter."  If  you  read  the  writings  of  John,  the 
15th,  16th  and  17th  chapters,  there  you  will  see  that  he  is  called  the 
Comforter.  He  is  a  personage.  "When  he,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is 
come,  whom  I  will  send  unto  you  from  the  Father,  he  will  teach  you 
all  things  and  he  will  show  you  things  to  come."  John  calls  him  "He" 
and  "Him."  He  is  a  person.  "If  I  go  not  away,"  said  Jesus  to  his 
disciples,  "the  Comforter  will  not  come,  but  if  I  go  away,  I  will  send 
him  to  you,  and  he  shall  bear  witness  of  me  and  of  the  Father ;"  for  that 
is  his  office  and  calling.  The  understanding  we  have  is  that  the 
Holy  Ghost,  as  a  personage,  came  on  the  day  of  Pentecost,  and  that 
he  was  manifested  in  the  sign  of  the  cloven  tongues,  as  he  was  to 
John  the  Baptist  by  the  sign  of  the  dove,  when  the  Savior  was  bap- 
tized in  the  river  Jordan.  Now  then,  understand  that  the  personage 
spoken  of  there,  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Comforter,  is  an  individual,  the 
third  person  in  the  trinity,  and  it  takes  the  Father  and  the  Word  and 
the  Holy  Ghost  to  make  a  complete  record  in  the  heavens ;  but  the 
apostle  John  goes  on  to  say,  "there  are  three  that  bear  witness,  on  the 
earth — the  spirit,  and  the  water,  and  the  blood,  and  these  three  agree 
in  one.  Now  as  to  the  oneness  I  was  just  touching  upon,  it  is  clearly 
explained*  in  the  prayer  of  the  Savior,  offered  to  the  Father  before  he 
went  to  the  garden  of  Gethsemane.    He  prayed  for  his  apostles : 

I  pray  "for  them  *  *  *  which  thou  has  given  me ;  for  they 
are  thine.  And  all  mine  are  thine,  and  thine  are  mine ;  and  I  am  glori- 
fied in  them.  Neither  pray  I  for  these  alone,  but  for  them  also  which 
shall  believe  on  me  through  their  word ;  that  they  all  be  one ;  as  thou, 
Father,  art  in  me,  and  I  in  thee,  that  they  also  may  be  one  in  us ;  that 
the  world  may  believe  that  thou  hast  sent  me;  and  the  glory  which 
thou  gavest  me  I  have  given  them,  that  they  may  be  one,  even  as  we 
are  one."     (John  17:9,  20,  23.) 

There  is  the  oneness  of  Deity,  the  three  in  one;  not  as  some 
preachers  try  to  expound  it,  in  the  doctrines  of  the  outside  world,  in 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  Article  of  Faith  that  they  have,  making  them  one  immaterial  spirit 
— no  body,  no  real  personage,  no  substance.  On  the  contrary,  they 
are  three  individuals,  one  in  spirit,  one  in  mind,  one  in  intelligence, 
united  in  all  things  that  they  do,  and  it  takes  the  Father,  and  the  Son, 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  to  make  the  perfect  Trinity  in  one,  three  persons 
and  one  God  or  Deity,  one  Godhead. 

THE  HOLY  GHOST  BESTOWED  IN  CONFIRMATION. 

Now  about  the  Holy  Ghost  bestowed  in  confirmation.^  It  is  re- 
quired of  people  who  are  baptized  in  water,  to  be  baptized  with  "the 
Holy  Ghost  and  with  fire."  Of  course,  the  word  "fire"  does  not  mean 
a  literal  blaze  to  burm  you  up ;  it  is  a  divine  fire,  and  all  people  know, 
who  have  been  baptized  with  fire  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  bearing  witness 
of  the  Father  and  they  Son,  (and  in  these  times,  to  the;  divine  mission 
of  the  Latter-day  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith)  that  this  Spirit  is  in  the 
Church,  and  each  individual  member  receives  it  as  a  gift.  The  Holy  Spirit 
or  Holy  Ghost  if  you  please,  is  "the  true  light  that  enlighteneth  every 
man  that  comes  into  the  world."  So  John  teaches  in  that  fine  treatise  that 
he  wrote,  called  the  Gospel  of  St.  John.  Now  then,  the  light  that  is  in  the 
stars,  that  light  that  shines  dimly  in  these  lamps  here  this  morning — 
what  is  it?  Why,  it  is  one  manifestation  of  that  divine  essence  called 
the  Holy  Spirit,  and  it  permeates  all  things,  not  only  on  this  globe,  but 
in  all  the  worlds  that  have  been  made.  For  we  read  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  take  the  29th  Section  and  read  it  carefully,  that  God 
created  all  things  by  that  Spirit,  firstly  spiritual  and  afterwards  that 
which  is  temporal.  That  Holy  Spirit,  so  we  read  in  the  88th  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "is  in  all  things,  and  through  all  things, 
and  round  about  all  things,  and  is  the  law  by  which  all  things  are  gov- 
erned. It  is  the  light  of  Christ,  and  it  is  in  the  sun,  and  the  moon  and 
the  stars,  and  the  earth  on  which  ye  stand."  It  permeates  all  things 
throughout  the  vast  domain  of  space,  which  has  no  bounds.  It  is  the 
spirit  that  gives  life,  it  is  the  spirit  that  gives  light ;  and  when  we  came 
into'  the*  world  and  breathed  the  breath  of  life  we  became  "living 
souls." 

There  is  no  time  now  to  talk  about  this  creation,  as  we  read  of 
it  in  the  book  of  Genesis.  However,  when  man  was  formed  out  of  the 
dust,  and  afterwards  by  eating  the  products  of  the  earth  and  becoming 
earthly  thereby,  when  he  came  into  his  being  on  the  earth,  he  breath- 
ed the  breath  of  life,  and  "man  became  a  living  soul,"thereby.  So  we, 
you  and  the  rest  of  us,  when  we  were  born  into  this  world,  when  we 
came  to  the  condition  that  we  could  breathe  the  breath  of  life  and  be 
quickened  by  it  in  our  mortal  being,  we  were  living  souls  ;  and  when  we 
are  resurrected  from  the  dead  we  will  still  be  living  souls,  but  in  a  more 
perfect  state.  If  we  are  worthy  of  the  celestial  glory  we  shall  be 
quickened  thereby  when  we  are  raised.  As  Paul  puts  it,  "the  body  is 
sown  in  dishonor,  it  is  raised  in  power;  it  is  sown  in  weakness,  it  is 
raised  in  strength;  it  is  sown  a  natural  body,  it  is  raised  a  spiritual 


■PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  15 

body."  So,  when  we  are  raised  from  the  dead,  the  body  that  is  sown 
in  the  grave,  in  weakness,  is  raised  in  power,  glorified  like  the  glorious 
body  of  the  Son  of  God.  These  are  simple!  things  taught  in  the  Scrip- 
tures, and  when  we  go  beyond  them  and  make  theories  of  our  own,  we 
get  into  the  dark. 

The  Holy  Ghost,  spoken  of  in  the  88th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  is  in  all  things,  round  about  all  things,  throughout  the  im- 
mensity of  space.  What  is  it?  Why  it  is  a  spiritual  essence  which 
gives  life  and  light  to  all  things,  to  animals  and  vegetables  as  well  as 
to  human  beings  ;  but  that  is  not  the  Comforter  that  Jesus  said  he  would 
send,  because  it  was  here  already,  and  is  the  light  that  enlighteneth 
every  person  that  comes  into  the  world.  It  is  the  essence  of  ordinary 
life;  it  is  the  very  essence  of  life  in  the  fulness  of  its  manifestations 
around  the  personality  of  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  his  Son ;  in 
heaven,  where  they  dwell.    Therein  is  the  glory  of  God. 

In  its  smaller  or  lesser  manifestations,  it  is  the  same  Spirit  but 
not  to  the  same  degree.  When  we  are  born/  by  water  baptism  into  the 
Church,  born  of  God,  then  we  are  baptized  with  fire  and  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  we  have  an  additional  manifestation  of  light  and  power  in  that 
Holy  Spirit  which  is  given  to  us  in  the  confirmation — '"Receive  ye  the 
Holy  Ghost" — as  a  gift  from  God,  as  a  light  to  your  feet,  a  lamp  to 
your  path,  as  a  perpetual  witness,  an  additional  gift  of  light!  and  truth. 
Don't  I  know  in  my  own  being  that  I  received  that  gift?  I  certainlv 
do,  a  swell  as  I  know  that  I  see  things  naturally  by  those  manifestations 
of  light  that  come  from  the  sun  and  the  moon  and  the  stars  and  the 
lamps  that  we  light,  and  the  electric  light  that  we  bring  forth  by  touch- 
ing the  button.  We  do  not  create  that  light,  we  do  not  bring  it  into  being, 
we  only  bring  it  into  action.  It  is  governed  by  law,  and  when  the  laws 
are  fully  understood  and  we  live  by  them,  and  we  are  quickened  by 
that  power  to  the  full,  in  body  and  in  spirit,  we  will  be  like  our  Father 
and  like  Jesus  Christ  his  beloved  Son :  "Beloved,"  says  the  Apostle  John, 
"now  are  we  the  Sons  of  God.  It  doth  not  yet  appear  what  we  shall 
be,  but  we  know  that  when  he  appears  we  shall  be  like  him,  for  we  shall 
see  him  as  he  is,  and  every  man  that  has  this  hope  purifieth  himself 
even  as  he  is  pure." 

By  keeping  the  commandments  of  God,  as  we  were  exhorted  to  do 
six  month  ago,  and  today  also,  by  keeping  the  commandments  of  God 
and  walking  in  his  ways,  that  spirit  is  developed  in  us.  Its  light  is 
clearer  and  plainer  and  it  shines  out  and  reveals  the  things  of  God.  "No 
man  knoweth  the  things  of  man  but  the  spirit  of  man  that  is  in  him, 
and  no  man  knoweth  the  things  of  God  but  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  the 
Spirit  searcheth  all  things,  yea  the  deep  things  of  God."  That  is  good 
plain  scripture. 

Now  my  brethren  and  sisters  do  not  get  into  confusion  about  this 
matter.  The  Holy  Ghost  is  an  individual,  is  a  personage  of  spirit,  one 
of  the  great  Three  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  spoke  so  plainly 
about  so  many  times  just  before  his  death. 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PERTAINING  TO  THE  STATEMENT  IN   THE  LECTURES  ON   FAITH. 

There  is  one  little  point  in  regard  to  that  which  I  will  mention :  In 
the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  have  a  number  of  lectures  in- 
serted in  the  first  part ;  which  are  not  revelations.  There  are  seven  lec- 
tures, and  in  the  fifth  lecture,  particularly,  we  are  told  that  there  are 
two  personages  in  heaven,  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  that  the  holy 
spirit  is  the  mind  of  God.  That  is  true,  so  far  as  it  goes.  But  the  reve- 
lation through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  to  the  personality  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  came  many  years  after ;  it  was  given  in  1843.  In  that  reve- 
lation we  are  clearly  instructed  concerning  the  third  personage  in  the 
Trinity.  Now,  as  far  as  Sidney  Rigdon,  and  some  others  who  delivered 
those  lectures,  went,  they  spoke  the  truth.  There  are  two  persons  in 
the  heavens,  the  Father  and  the  Son,  but  the  Holy  Spirit  is  passed  by 
almost,  as  the  "mind  of  God."  It  is  true  that  the  Holy  Spirit  conveys 
the  mind  of  God;  that  is,  I  am  speaking  now  of  this  universal  spirit 
which  is  the  life  and  the  light  of  all  things,  which  is  in.and  through  and 
round  about*-  all  things,  and  God  says  he  made  the  world  by  the  power 
of  that  spirit.  That  is  his  agent;  but  the  personage,  the  Comforter, 
which  Jesus  Christ  said  he  would  send  when  he  went  away,  that  was  a 
personage  of  the  Trinity.  He  promised  to  send  this  Comforter  to  re- 
veal the  things  of  the  Father  and  to  bear  witness  of  the  Father  and  the 
Son. 

When  Joseph  the  Prophet  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son  in  the  grove 
where  he  was  praying,  the  Holy  Spirit  made  them  manifest.  When 
he  commenced  to  pray,  or  tried  to  pray,  he  could  not  say  anything. 
He  was  seized  upon  by  an  opposing  power  which  seemed  to  almost 
overcome  him,  but  he  struggled  against  it  and  continued  to  pray,  un- 
til a  light  came,  a  pillar  of  light,  the  manifestation  and  presence  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  and  by  the  power  of  that  Spirit,  which  quickened  his 
spiritual  vision,  he  saw  two  personages  in  that  cloud  of  glory,  and  they 
conversed  with  him,  or  rathen  one  did.  The  Father  does  not  converse 
much  with  mankind  individually.  He  said :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
hear  him ;"  and  he  is  the  person  we  want  to  hear  and  to  obey  as  rep- 
resenting the  Father.  As  we  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  he  is,  in 
some  respects,  both  the  Father  and  the  Son.  He  represents  the  Father 
to  the  full.  We  are  in  the  image  of  God,  but  the  Christ,  the  great  Je- 
hovah, is  the  express  image  of  the  Father's  person,  God  manifest  in  the 
flesh,  and  he  has  gone  into  his  glory.  We  will  follow  him  to  that 
glory  if  we  will  keep  his  commandments.  He  is  the  resurrection  and 
the  life.  God  has  entrusted  that  to  him,  given  him  that  power  and  made 
him  heir  of  all  things,  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth.  "All  power 
is  given  to  me,  in  heaven  and  upon  the  earth.  Tarry  ye  at  Jerusalem, 
until  ye  are  endowed  with  power  from  on  high."  That  is  what  he 
told  his  apostles. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  17 

THE  LIGHT  OF  GOD  MANIFESTS  THE  THINGS  OF  GOD. 

I  hope,  in  what  I  have  said  on  this  subject,  I  have  made  this  matter 
clear.  All  I  want  to  do  when  I  get  up  to  talk  before  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  is  to  make  the  things  that  are  clear  in  my  own  mind, 
clear  also  to  them,  if  I  can.  It  is.  the  light  'of  the  Lord  that  manifests 
the  things  of  God,  and  if  we  live  in  that  light  and  walk  in  its  rays  we 
will  keep  the  commandments  of  God.  That  is  the  tendency  of  it.  In 
the  operations  of  natural  light,  displayed  by  the  spectrum,  there  are 
seven  different  colors  or  rays,  as  I  remember  being  taught,  when  I  was 
a  boy  at  school — red,  orange,  yellow,  green,  blue,  indigo  and  violet ; 
they  are  all  one  in  a  pencil  of  light,  and  that  is  a  manifestation  of  the 
Spirit  of  God.  In  that  there  are,  as  in  the  higher  revealings,  various 
operations,  as  the  apostle  teaches  in  the  twelfth  chapter  of  First  Corin- 
thians : 

"For  to  one  is  given  by  the  Spirit  the  word  of  wisdom;  to  another 
knowledge  by  the  same  Spirit; 

"To  another  faith  by  the  same  Spirit;  to  another  the  gifts  of  healings 
by  the  same  Spirit; 

"To  another  the  working  of  miracles;  to  another  prophecy;  to  another 
discerning  of  spirits;  to  another  divers  kinds  of  tongues;  to  another  the  in- 
terpretation of  tongues; 

"But  all  these  worketh  that  one  and  the  selfsame  Spirit,  dividing  to 
every  man  severally  as  he  will." 

So,  my  brethren,  if  we  receive  that  gift,  when  hands  are  laid 
upon  us,  after  we  have  been  baptized  into  the  Church  and  it  is  said  unto 
us:  "Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost,"  that  gift  is  sealed  upon  us.  The 
gift  is  ours  whether  we  act  upon  it  or  receive  it  or  not,  the  gift  is  given 
to  us  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  explains  and  manifests  and  enlightens 
our  souls  in  regard  to  these  things  that  are  divine.  It  searches  all  things, 
yea,  even  the  deep  things  of  God.  I  know  it  in  my  own  being  and  have 
known  it  ever  since  I  was  baptized  into  the  Church.  That  gift  was 
sealed  upon  me,  and  in  all  my  labors  and  duties,  spoken  of  by  the 
President  this  morning,  it  has  only  been  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  the  light  of  the  Almighty,  through  Jesus 
Christ  his  Son,  that  I  have  been  able  to  bring  people  to  an  understanding 
of  and  obediencel  to  the  truth,  and  to  conduct  affairs  with  wisdom  and 
in  the  light  that  I  have  received  from  God. 

A  TESTIMONY. 

I  know  that  God  lives,  I  know  that  he  is  my  Father,  I  know  he  has 
guided  me  on  land  and  sea,  that  he  has  been  with  me  in  all  my  travelings 
at  home  and  abroad,  and  that  his  Spirit  is  with  me  today.  Thanks  and 
praise  be  to  his  holy  name.  All  I  care  for,  of  position'  or  office  in  this 
Church,  is  to  build  up  the  work  of  the  Father  through  Jesus  Christ 
his  Son,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Truly  we  believe  in  God, 
the  Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost;  and 
to  God  the  Father,  to  Jesus  Christ  his  Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  be 
honor,  praise,  glory,  and  dominon  forever,  Amen. 


13  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Thanks  be  to  God,"  by  Mendelssohn. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

I  do  not  remember,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  a  period  in  my 
life's  experience  in  the  Church  when  I  felt  my  dependence1  upon 
the  Lord  to  a  degree  greater  than  I  do  this  morning.  Should  I  fol- 
low my  own  inclinations,  I  would  not  attempt  to  make  remarks  at  all, 
but  to  gam  wisdom  and  knowledge  and  understanding  by  listening  to 
the  remarks  of  my  brethren  and  communing  with  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  which  is  here  this  morning.  I  feel  the  necessity  of  wisdom,  of 
sound  judgment,  of  the  help  of  the  Lord  in  expounding  the  scrip- 
tures, and  teaching  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  in  discharging  the 
responsibility  which  has  come  to  me,,  as  I  have  never  felt  it  before. 

THE  CHURCH  AFTER  NEARLY  ONE. HUNDRED  YEARS. 

We  are  here  to  review  the  condition  of  the  Church,  after  nearly 
an  hundred  years  of  its  existence.  We  .'are  here  that  we  may  deter- 
mine whether  or  not  progress  is  being  made,  to  hear  the  scripture  ex- 
pounded, and  the  order  of  the)Church  explained,  that  we  may  deter- 
mine whether  or  not  in  the  administration  of  its  affairs,  we  are  ad- 
hering closely  to  the  word  of  the  tLord.  The  Lord  has  declared  to 
us  that  all  scripture  is  given  by  inspiration  from  God,  that  it  is  of  great 
value  to  us  as  a  means  of  proper  exhortation,  a  means  of  reproof 
and  of  correction  where  correction  may  be  necessary,  and  he  has 
reminded  us  that  it  must  always  be  expounded  and  explained  in  a 
spirit  of  righteousness.  The  Lord  has  admonished  us  to  search  the 
scripture,  because  in  it|we  think  we  have  everlasting  life,  and  that  it 
is  the  scripture  which  testifies  of  him.  I  have  beeni  thinking,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  while  listening  to  the  remarks  made,  that  it 
was  through  obedience  to  this  latter  admonition  of  the  Lord,  that 
Joseph  Smith  found  the  key  which  opened  this  gospel  dispensation. 
He  searched  the  scriptures  and  in  them  (found  the  path  which  leads 
to  everlasting  life,  to  all  of  those  who  care  to  enter  in  through  faith  in 
God  our  Father,  and  in  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son. 

OPENING  OF  THE   LAST  DISPENSATION. 

At  the  time  that  Joseph  Smith  went  to  the  written  words  for 
light,  the" scripture  which  'I  have  quoted  was  understood  to  apply,  and 
he  undoubtedly  so  understood  it,  to  the  Bible,  this  book  which  I  hold 
in  my  hand.  It  was  the  only  book  which  was  accepted  by  the  world 
as  containing  the  fundamentals  of  Christianity,  and  of  the  hand-deal- 
ings of  the  Father,  as  they  applied  to  his  children!  Who  were  here  upon 
earth.  Through  the  prayer  which  he  offered,  and  to  which  reference 
has  been  made  by  President  Penrose,  the  faith  which  he  exercised  in 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  19 

obedience  to  this  admonition  of  the  Lord,  he  received  that  first 
glorious  manifestation,  -when  the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared  to 
him,  now  more  than  a  hundred  years  ago,  at  which  time  he  was  not 
>|et  fifteen  years  of  age.  This  glorious  manifestation,  with  the  great 
importance  which  attaches  to  it,  carried  with  it  no  authority  to  act 
in  the  name  of  /the  Lord,  neither  in  the  opening  of  this  gospel  dis- 
pensation, the  organization  of  the  Church,  nor  in  the  administration 
in  the  ordinances  thereof.  As  time  passed  and  the 'boy  gradually  ap- 
proached manhood,  he  waited  and,  undoubtedly,  wondered  when  the 
time  would  come  for  the  accomplishment  of  the  .greater  work  which 
had  been  outlined  in  this  first  manifestation  which  came  to  him  from 
the  Lord.  On  the  night  of  September  21,  1823,  after  he  had  engaged 
in  prayer  and  retired  for  the  night,  Joseph  Smith  states  that  he  ob- 
served that  light  began  gradually  to  appear  in  his  room,  which  in- 
creased in  brilliancy  until  the  room  was  lighter  than  at  noon  day, 
when  a  personage  appeared  at  his  bed  side,  who  declared  that  he  was 
a  messenger  sent  from  the  presence  of  God  and  that  his  name  was 
Moroni.  He  declared  to  Joseph  Smith  that  the  Lord  had  a  great 
work  for  him  to  perform,  a  work  which  would  make  his  namte  known 
among  all  nations  and  people,  that  among  some  it  would  be  held  in' 
honor,  among  others  it  would  be  held  in  reproach.  He  declared  many 
important  things  to  Joseph  Smith,  but  the  (principal  purpose  of  his 
visit  appears  to  have  been  to  announce  to  him  that  there  was  a  book 
deposited,  written  upon  gold  plates,  which  contained  the  history  of 
the  ancient  inhabitants  of  this  continent,  and  the  source  from  which 
they  came,  and  that  it  contained  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  gospel, 
as  it  was  delivered  to  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  this  continent  by  the 
Redeemer  of  the  'world,  and  that  means  had  been  provided  by  which 
the  inscriptions  upon  the  plates  might  be  translated  into  the  English 
language.  Joseph  Smith  visited  the  locality  and  readily  recognized  the 
place  where  the  plates  were  deposited  but  was  not  permitied  to  take 
possession  of  them  until  four  years  later,  at  which  time  he  was  in  his 
twenty-second  year,  when  the  plates  were  entrusted  to  his  care  by 
the  same  messenger  who  had  first  appeared  to  him.  The  work  of 
translation  was  commenced  and  continued  until  completed,  when 
the  plates  were  returned  to  the  messenger  from  whom  he  had  received 
them,  and  Joseph  Smith  proceeded  to  publish  their  contents  to  the 
world  in  the  form  known  as  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

\  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON. 

The  first  .edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  issued  in  the  3'ear 
1830,  under  the  circumstances  and  in  the  style  which  tthe  time  justi- 
fied, a  style  which  would  not  be  considered  appropriate  at  present. 
From  time  to  time  other  editions  were  issued,  the  arrangement 
slightly  changed  to  make  the  book  more  appropriate,  with  chap- 
ters, index,  footnotes  and  references  added.  The  existing  edition  hav- 
ing become  exhausted,  it  recently  became  necessary  to  issue  a  new 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

one  and  the  suggestion  was  made  that  the  style  of  the  book,  which 
still' adhered  closely  to  the  original,  might  be  so  changed  that  it  would 
be  better  adapted  to  the  use  for  which  it  was  intended.  A  commit- 
tee was  chosen  from  among  the  Council  of  Twelve,  who  carefully 
examined  all  editions,  including  the  original,  compared  them  care- 
fully, compared  and  checked  the  footnotes  and  references,  and  after 
making  some  slight  changes  in  arrangement,  tore  have  issued  a  new 
edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  which  I  hold  in  my  hand.  The  text 
remains  as  heretofore,  but  the  book  has  been  printed  in  double  col- 
umns instead  of  single,  a  change  which  has  resulted  in  a  reduction  in 
size  of  one  hundred  pages.  The  frontispiece  remains  as  heretofore, 
but  there  has  been  added  a  brief  synopsis  of  the  contents  of  the  book 
and  the  story  of  its  origin!  as  related  by  Joseph  Smith.  The  testimony 
of  the  witnesses  remains  as  heretofore,  and  then  follows  the  general 
text.  The  name  and  order  of  the  books  contained  in  the  volume  are 
also  given ;  chapter  headings  have  been  added ;  the  footnotes  have 
been  carefully  compared  and  revised,  where  revision  was  necessary ;  a 
pronouncing  vocabulary  has  also  been  added :  and  a  brief  synopsis  of 
chapters  and  a  very  greatly  improved  index  which  facilitates  the  study 
of  the  book.  So  we  have  brought  out  a  new  edition  off  this  book  which 
is  of  such  great  interest  to  the  Church  and  its  members,  which  we 
commend  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  all  other  people  for 
study. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  scripture  of  the  American  continent, 
preserved  and  brought  forth  by  the  power  of  the  Lord,  that  his  de- 
crees and  purposes  might  be  m&de  known  to  the  people  who  were  to 
occupy  this  continent  in  this  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times, 
the  greatest  dispensation  which 'the  world  has  ever  known,  for  in  it 
the  Lord  has  said  that  he  will  consummate  the  work  commenced  in 
all  other  dispensations  which  have  gfone  before  it.  This  book  is  the 
strongest  corroborative  evidence  to  the  divinitv  of  the  things  contained 
in  the  Bible,  that  there  is  in  the  world.  Tt  is  the  strongest  evidence 
of  the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  that  can 
be  found,  the  Bible  alone  excepted.  It  contains  the  fulness  of  the 
everlasting  gospel,  in  simplicity,  easy  to  be  understood,  as  it  was 
taught  to  the  people  bv  the  Redeemer  who  established  his  Church 
among  the  Nephites.  The  code  of  morals  which  it  teaches  is  beyond 
criticism,  and  if  adhered  to  would  redeem  the  world  from  the  con- 
dition of  moral  degeneracy  which  now  prevails.  Tt  teaches  ethics 
in  civil  government  which,  if  adhered  to,  would  solve  the  perplexing 
nolitical  questions  which  bewilder  the  world  today,  would  remove  the 
burdens  of  taxation  from  the  backs  of  the  struggling  masses,  and 
bring  peace  to  the  earth  land  fraternity  among  all  mankind.  Tt  de- 
clares the  redemption  of  the  remnant  of  Tudah,  the  gathering-  of  the 
Ten  Tribes,  the  restoration  of  scattered  fsrael,  and  the  fulfilment  of 
the  words  of  the  prophets,  both  ancient  and  modern.  While  it  stronglv 
denounces  wickedness,  it  holds  out  great  hope  to  the  righteous,  and 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W'.  WINS  21 

forgiveness  and  redemption  to  the  repentant  sinner;  it  unfolds  the 
hitherto  unknown  past,  and  outlines  to  us  events  of  the  great  future 
upon  the  threshold  of  which  we  stand.  It  has  been  before  the  world 
now  for  nearly  one  hundred  years,  during  which  period  it  has  been 
subjected  to  the  criticism  of  the  learned  and  to  the  ridicule  of  the  ig- 
norant. Not  one  line  in  it,  not  one  doctrine  which  it  teaches,  not  one 
truth  which  it  sets  forth,  has  been  found  to  be  out  of  harmony 
with  the  word  of  the  Lord,  as  contained  in  the  Bible,  and  as  it  has 
come  to  us  through  his  inspired  servants — a  thing  which  can  be  said 
of  no  other  book  in  the  world.  It  should  be  an  evidence  of  its  truth, 
that  with  the  closest  scrutiny  given  it  by  this  committee,  in  the  light 
of  the  present,  with  he  past  behind  us,  not  one  single  instance  was 
found  where  it  needed  correction  or  amendment. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  commend  the  Book  of  Mormon 
to  you  and  to  the  people,  particularly  of  this  country  in  which  we  live ; 
for  this  record  is  of  special  and  transcendent  importance  to  them.  It 
declares  in  plainness  that  this  is  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands, 
that  it  is  dedicated  to  the  service  of  the  God  of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus 
Christ,  and  it  warns  the  people  who  occupy  this  land  that  whenever 
the  time  shall  come  that  they  are  lifted  up  in  pride  above  all  other 
nations,  when  the  time  shall  come  that  they  are  full  of  all  manner  of 
iniquity,  of  secret  abominations,  of  whoredom,  and  priestcraft,  and  of 
all  manner  of  wickedness,  that  at  that  time,  except  they  repent  and  turn 
to  the  Lord,  destruction  shall  come  to  them,  as  it  has  come  to>  other  na- 
tions and  people  who  have  occupied  the  land  before  .them.  We  ask 
you,  and  particularly  the  people  of  the  United  States,  to  become  fa- 
miliar with  its  contents.  If  we  will  do  so  and  be  governed  by  the  doc- 
trines it  teaches,  we  will  be  redeemed  from  the  sins  of  the  world,  will 
understand  the  purposes  of  the  Almighty  as  !they  apply  to  us,  his  pur- 
poses in  the  opening  of  this  great  gospel  dispensation,  the  great  ac- 
complishments of  the  past  and  the  immediate  future  which  is  before 
us.  It  will  redeem  us  from  the  sins  of  the  world  and  enable  us  to  live 
clean  and  spotless  before  the  Lord,  regardless  of  our  surroundings.  It 
is  the  word  of  the  Lord  brought  forth  through  the  instrumentality  of 
Joseph  Smith  for  the  redemption  of  mankind,  to  go  with  the  Bible  as 
an  additional  evidence  and  witness  to  the  people  of  the  world  that  the 
decrees  of  the  Father  are  unchangeable,  that  the  words  of  the  prophets 
will  be  fulfilled,  that  Israel  will  be  gathered,  and  that  redemption  will 
come  to  the  covenant  people  of  the  Lord.  Search  the  Scriptures,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  for  in  them  we  have  eternal  life,  and  they  are 
they  which  testify  of  God  and  of  the  truth  of  these  things  which  I 
have  said  to  you.  I  pray  that  we  may  all  become  familiar  with  them, 
that  we  may  all,  through  adherence  to  their  tenets,  attain  to  ever- 
lasting life,  through  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

.The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Samuel  W.  Parkinson, 
President  of  the  Franklin  stake  of  Zion. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  called  the  congregation  to 
order  at  2  o'clock.  The  building,  both  in  auditorium  and  galleries, 
was  filled  to  capacity. 

The  choir,  and  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is 
burning." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  B.  White,  President  of  the 
Hyrum  stake  of  Zion. 

The  choir  and  Mrs.  Francesca  Parkinson  sang  the  sacred  song, 
"The  Almighty,"  by  Schubert. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

CHANGES  IN  CONFERENCE  PRESIDENTS 

iWe  announced  here  at  the  last  conference,  the  changes  in  the  Aus- 
tralian, New  Zealand  and  the  Swiss  and  German  missions.  At  that 
time  Brother  James  N.  Lambert  who  had  been  to  New  Zealand  was 
with  us  and  spoke  to  the  congregation.  Since  then,  Brother  Arnold 
G.  Miller,  from  the  Australian  mission,  and  Brother  Angus  J.  Cannon 
from  the  Swiss  and  German  mission  have  arrived  home.  We  welcome 
them  and  tender  them  our  sincere  thanks  for  the  very  splendid,  long 
and  arduous  labors  that  they  have  performed  in  those  missions. 

INCREASE  IN  PAYMENTS  OF  TITHING 

In  reading  a  number  of  items  this  morning,  I  read  what  became  of 
several  millions  of  dollars  of  the  funds  of  the  Church  during  the  last 
year,  and  lo  and  behold,  I  skipped  the  all-important  item  of  tithing. 
The  Saints  have  done  remarkably  well,  during  the  past  year,  in  the  pay- 
ment of  tithes,  especially  when  we  consider  the  hard  times  through  which 
we  are  passing.  I  wish  to  commend'  the  bishops,  and  other  officers  of 
the  Church,  as  well  as  the  membership  of  the  Church,  in  general,  for  the 
faithfulness  exhibited  by  the  Saints  in  payment  of  their  tithes.  I  think 
that  it  is  nothing  less  than  wonderful  in  view  of  the  great  hardships 
financially,  through  which  all  sections  of  the  country  have  been  passing, 
during  the  year  that  is  just  closed,  that  there  should  be  no  falling  off 
at  all  in  the  tithes  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  tithes  for  the 
past  year  have  been  slightly  in  advance  of  those  for  the  previous  year, 
which  was  one  of  the  largest  years  for  the  payment  of  tithes  in  the 
history  of  the  Church. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  23 

AN  EDITORIAL  IN   THE  "COAST  BANKER." 

Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  President  of  the  California  Mission, 
came  up  and  suggested  that  I  should  waive  my  insurance  modesty,  and 
that  I  should  read  the  introduction  to  my  speech,  as  written  by  the 
editor  of  the  Coast  Banker;  and  I  shall  do  so.  One  of  my  insurance 
friends  in  San  Francisco,  president  of  one  of  the  greatest  companies 
in  the  United  States,  remarking  on  the  photo  of  myself  that  is  printed' 
with  the  article,  stated  that  he  would  pay  a  great  deal  if  he  could  only 
have  a  picture  taken  of  him  that  would  flatter  him  as  much  as  this  pic- 
ture flatters  me. 

(The  editorial,  which  was  here  read  by  President  Grant,  and 
the  speech  in  full  may  be  found  at  the  close  of  this  record. — Clerk.) 

THE  CANTATA  "THE  MARTYRS,"  BY  EVAN   STEPHANS 

The  sacred  cantata,  "The  Martyrs,"  by  Evan  Stephens,  and  a 
chorus  of  400  will  be  presented  in  the  Tabernacle,  Monday  evening, 
April  4.  I  read  an  editorial  in  The  News,  last  night,  and  felt  that 
Brother  Stephens  was  entitled  to  have  this  splendid  editorial  read  to 
you  here  today: 

"Among  other  events  of  the  approaching  Conference  season  claiming 
th:  attention  of  both  residents  and  visitors  the  rendition  of  Evan  Stephens' 
sacred  cantata,  "The  Martyrs,"  in  the  Tabernacle,  on  Monday  evening  next, 
is  deserving  of  special  notice.  A  year  ago  this  gifted  home  composer  fairly 
electrified  a  mammoth  audience  in  the  Tabernacle  with  "The  Vision" — an 
appropriate  precursor  of  the  present  woik;  and  those  who-  are  in  a  position 
to  speak  with  intelligence  and  authority  on  the  question,  affirm  with  en- 
thusiasm that  'The  Martyrs'  is  in  all  respects  the  equal  of,  and  in  some 
respects  is  superior  to,  the  earlier  masterpiece.  Certainly  in  the  matter  of 
attention  to  detail  in  presentation,  Mr.  Stephens  has  allowed  nothing  to  be 
overlooked — a  fact  upon  which  those  who  know  his  artistic  and  indefatigable 
nature  will  need  no  assurance.  He  has  in  conspicuous  degree  the  talent  of 
infusing  into  his  performers  a  measure  of  his  own  zeal,  so  that  to  the  most 
exacting  demands  of  practice  and  rehearsal  they  yield  without  demur.  The 
result  is  that  when  at  length  the  hour  for  the  public  performance  arrives, 
all  those  who  have  been  engaged  upon  it  are  prepared  to  give  it  a  rendition 
as  nearly  faultless  as  is  humanly  possible.  Apart  from  the  fame  of  the 
soloists,  the  heavier  choral  work  of  the  great  chorus  of  four  hundred  voices 
should  prove  at  once  a  mighty  attraction  and  inspiration.  In  short,  it  is  to 
be  hoped,  and  it  is  the  probability,  that,  vast  as  is  the  auditorium  where  the 
performance  will  be  given,  the  demand  for  seats  will  be  so  great  that  not 
all  can  gain  admission,  for  it  promises  to  be  in  all  respects  a  stupendous  and 
memorable  occasion." 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT   RUDGER   CLAWSON 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  We  had  a  glorious  meeting  this 
morning,  and  now  are  gathered  again  in  this  building,  a  great 
assembly  of  Latter-day  Saints,  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  only  Church  under  the  heavens  that  bears  the  name  of 
the  Savior.  It  is  true  that  he  is  not  here  with  us  in  person,  but  he  is 
here  by  the  power  of  his  Spirit  and  his  authority.  His  authority,  is 
called  the  Priesthood,  the  holy  Priesthood  after  the  order  of  the  Son 
of  God,  and  this  authority  is  held  by  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelacor 
and  the  president  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Not  only  does  it  rest  upon  him,  but  it  is  widely  distributed  through- 
out the  Church,  and  rests  in  some  degree  upon  every  worthy  man  in 
the  Church. 

WOMEN"  AND  THE  PRjIESTHOOD. 

The  Priesthood  is  not  received,  or  held,  or  exercised  in  any 
degree,  by  the  women  of  the  Church ;  but,  nevertheless,  the  women 
of  the  Church  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Priesthood  through  their 
husbands.  This  emphasizes  very  strongly  the  importance  of  mar- 
riage. Every  woman  in  the  Church,  of  mature  age,  and  worthiness, 
who  is  ambitious  to  attain  to  exaltation  and  glory  hereafter  should 
be  married,  should  be  sealed  to  a  man  for  time  and  all  eternity;  and 
we  trust  that  the  young  women  of  the  Church  as  well  as  the  young 
men  of  the  Church  realize  the  responsibility  of  this  important 
ordinance. 

THE   POWER  AND      AUTHORITY   OF   THE    HOLY    PRIESTHOOD. 

The  Priesthood,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  complete  in  itself. 
Nevertheless,  we  know  that  there  are  two  great  divisions  in  it,  namely 
the  Melchizedek,  or  higher  Priesthood,  and  the  Aaronic,  or  lesser 
Priesthood,  which  lesser  Priesthood  is  an  appendage  to  the  higher 
Priesthood.  The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  administers  the  gospel  and 
holds  the  keys  of  the  mysteries  of  the  kingdom,  even  the  key  of  the 
knowledge  of  God.  Therefore,  in  its  ordinances  the  power  of  God 
and  of  godliness  is  manifest,  and  without  the  ordinances  and  the 
holy  Priesthood  the  power  of  godliness  is  not  manifest  among  men. 
Therefore,  wherever  the  holy  Priesthood  of  God  is  not  found  in  a 
Church,  such  a  church  cannot  be  the  Church  of  Christ. 

Moses  very  well  understood  this  great  principle.  He  held  the 
higher  Priesthood.  He  was  a  great  prophet  of  God  and  he  sought 
diligently  to  sanctify  the  children  of  Israel,  that  they  might  behold 
the  face  of  God.  But  it  is  said  in  the  revelation  that  they  hardened 
their  hearts  and  could  not  endure  his  presence   and  therefore  the 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON  25 

Lord  in  his  wrath — for  his  anger  was  kindled  against  them — swore 
that  they  should  not  enter  into  his  rest  while  in  the  wilderness, 
which  rest  is  a  fulness  of  the  glory  of  God.  In  consequence  of  this, 
the  holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood  was  taken  from  their  midst.  But  the 
lesser  Priesthood — the  Priesthood  that  holds  the  keys  of  the  ad- 
ministering of  angels  and  the  preparatory  gospel — was  continued  in 
Israel  down  to  the  time  of  the  Savior.  We  learn  a  great  lesson  from 
this  incident,  for  we  perceive  that  because  of  the  hardness  of  their 
hearts  and  their  unbelief  and  rebellion,  at  times,  Moses  and  the  holy 
Priesthood  were  taken  away  from  the  children  of  Israel.  But  it  is 
not  so  with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  because  you  will  find  the  authori- 
ty of  the  holy  Priesthood,  the  high  Priesthood  as  well  as  the  lesser 
Priesthood,  throughout  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  in  every  ward.  In 
this  is  shown  the  mercy  and  the  loving  kindness  and  generosity  of 
our  Father  in  heaven,  because  it  is  seen  that  God  is  no  respecter  of 
persons,  and  that  the  right  to  the  Priesthood  belongs  to  every  faith- 
ful man  in  the  Church — I  think  I  may  say  it  is  his  by  right  divine. 
So  it  is. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  say  to  all  Israel,  beware  of  hard- 
ness of  heart,  and  the  spirit  of  rebellion,  and  the  sin  of  idolatry,  for 
these  sins  are  great  evils  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord.  He  requires  hum- 
ility of  heart  and  diligence  and  faithfulness  and  submission  to  his 
authority.  I  think  that  there  is  nothing  in  the  scriptures  or  in  the 
revelations  of  God  that  emphasizes  the  greatness  of  the  power  of  the 
holy  Priesthood  as  the  words  which  occur  in  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
section  84,  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Latter- 
day  Saints,  give  ear  to  these  words  and  ponder  them  in  your  hearts, 
for  the  Lord  said : 

"For  whoso  is  faithful  unto  the  obtaining  these  two  Priesthoods  of 
which  I  have  spoken,  and  the  magnifying  their  calling,  are  sanctified  by  the 
'  Spirit  unto  the  renewing  of  their  bodies; 

"They  become  the  sons  of  Moses  and  of  Aaron  and  the  seed  of  Abra- 
ham, and  the  church  and  kingdom,  and  the  elect  of  God; 

"And  also  all  they  who  receive  this  Priesthood  receiveth  me,  saith  the 
Lord; 

"For  he  that  receiveth  my  servants  receiveth  me; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth  my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father,  receiveth  my  Father's'  kingdom; 
therefore  all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him; 

"And  this  is  according  to  the  oath  and  covenant  which  belongeth  to 
the  Priesthood. 

"Therefore,  all  those  who  receive  the  Priesthood,  receive  this  oath  and 
covenant  of  my  Father,  which  he  cannot  break,  neither  can  it  be  moved." 

But  now,  mark  you,  there  is  a  proviso,  and  it  is  significant.  It 
is  highly  important: 

"But  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant,  after  he  hath  received  it,  and  al- 
together turneth  therefrom,  shall  not  have  forgiveness  of  sins  in  this  world 
nor  in  the  world  to  come." 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

This  is  the  reservation,  that  is  the  proviso.  Now  if  we  shall  at- 
tain to  these  great  blessings  we  must  be  humble,  faithful,  consistent 
Latter-day  Saints. 

SOME    PERTINENT    QUESTIONS    TO    THOSE    WHO    HOLD    THE    PRIESTHOOD. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters — and  I  say  sisters  because,  as  I  have 
said,  the  sisters  participate  in  the  blessings  of  the  Priesthood  through 
their  husbands — do  we  appreciate  the  Priesthood  of  God,  this  divine 
authority?  Do  we  honor  it  in  our  lives?  Do  we  honor  it  in  our  file 
leaders  ?  Do  we  teach  our  boys  at  home  the  importance  and  value  of 
the  Priesthood?  Are  they  receiving  this  instruction  in  the  various 
organizations?  Because,  I  take  it  that  the  Priesthood  of  God  is  about 
(the  greatest  gift  unto  man,  for  it  represents  divine  authority.  Let 
us  give  heed  to  this  matter.  Oh,  I  pray  that  the  responsibility  of  it 
may  rest  down  mightily  upon  the  authorities  in  the  stakes  of  Zion, 
and  that  they  will  see  to  it  that  proper  and  full  instruction  is  given 
in  respect  to  this  matter. 

Now  may  the  Lord  bless  you,  the  Lord  bless  our  President,  who 
has  spoken  so  beautifully  and  so  powerfully  to  us  today,  and  Presi- 
dents Penrose  and  Ivins.  We  have  had  rich  instructions  already. 
Oh,  if  we  could  only  fully  receive  it  into  our  hearts,  and  carry  it  out 
in  our  lives,  how  blest  we  would  be !  May  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  con- 
tinue to  be  upon  this  people  and  in  the  congregations  of  the  Saints, 
and  may  it  rest  upon  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  all  the 
speakers  at  this  Conference,  is  my  prayer,!  in  the  name  of  Jesus, 
Amen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

I  have  rejoiced  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  general 
conference  as  far  as  it  has  progressed.  I  feel  in  my  soul  to  endorse 
what  has  been  said.  I  feel  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  with  us,  and 
was  with  usi  very  richly  in  the  opening  session.  T  desire  to  contribute 
something,  through  the  help  of  the  Lord,  that  will  be  of  profit  to  some 
of  us,  if  we  will  listen  and  hear,  and  be  doers  of  the  word  and  not 
hearers  only,  deceiving  ourselves. 

EVIDENCES   OF  THE   FAITHFULNESS    OF   THE   SAINTS. 

The  key-word  of  our  Conference,  six  months  ago,  was  given  us 
by  President  Grant,  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  If  I  un- 
derstand the  key-word  given  to  us  in  this  Conference,  it  is  to  continue 
our  faithfulness  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  We  have 
abundance  of  evidence  of  faithfulness  on  the  part  of  the  great  major- 
ity of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  The  very  fact  that,  under  existing  finan- 
cal  conditions,  the  tithing  of  the  people  has  increased,  during  the  past 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  27 

year,  is  an  evidence  of  their  faithfulness  in  keeping  the  commandments. 
The  reports  we  have  of  the  increased  attendance  at  sacrament  meet- 
ings and  of  stake  conference  meetings  is  an  additional  evidence  of  faith- 
fulness on  the  part  of  the  people  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord ;  also,  the  increased  attendance  and  membership  in  the  auxiliary 
associations  of  the  Church,  is  an  evidence  of  faithfulness  on  the  part  of 
the  young  as  well  as  the  older  people  of  the  Church.    I  have  the  utmost 
confidence  in  the  Latter-day  Saints  including  Zion's  young  people.     I 
have  the  utmost  confidence  in  the  ultimate  triumph  of  God's  work  in 
the  earth.     No  power  can  stay  the  progress.    Zion  is  to  arise  and  shine 
and  become  the  glory  of  the  whole  earth,  and  we  can  see  her  brightness 
already.     Those  who  are  not  of  us,  and  among  us,  and  those  of  the 
world  whose  eyes  have  been  turned  toward  us,  are  also  mindful  of  this 
fact.     A  friendly  feeling  toward  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  doc- 
trines which  we  have  for  the  world  is  growing  up  wherever  the  gospel 
is  being  preached.     There  are,  of  course,   some  exceptions.     In  our 
travels  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion  we  have  abundance  of  evidence  of  devo- 
tion on  the  part  of  leading  men  and  women  to  their  callings  in  this 
great  work.    I  feel  in  my  heart  to  commend  them  for  their  faithfulness 
and  for  their  devotion  and  to  pray  God's  choicest  blessings  to  rest  upon 
them,  that  they  may  be  abundantly  rewarded  of  him  in  time  and  in 
eternity  for  the  sacrifices  which  they  are  making,  of  time  and  means, 
in   the   carrying   on   this   great   latter-day   work.      These   matters    of 
which  I  have  been  speaking,  of  which  we  know  by  records  which  are 
kept  and  reports  which  are  made,  indicate  to  me  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  are  making  improvement  in  other  ways,  where  we  are  unable 
to  check  them  up  so  completely  as  on  some  of  these  matters,  such  as  at- 
tendance at  meetings  and  the  payment  of  their  tithes  and  offerings. 
The  tithing  is  an  index  of  the  faithfulness  of  the  individual.     I  am 
sure  that  the  Lord  manifests  his  pleasure  to  the  individual  who  is  mak- 
ing the  required  sacrifice  for  the  onward  progress  of  his  work,  and  for 
the  salvation  of  his  children  and  such  is  the  character  and  the  work 
being  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

CARING  FOR  THE  FATHERLESS,  AND  KEEPING  OURSELVES  UNSPOTTED 
FROM    THE   WORLD. 

The  Apostle  James  said:  "Pure  religion  and  undefiled  before 
God  and  the  Father  is  this,  To  visit  the  fatherless  and  widows  in  their 
affliction,  and  to  keep  himself  unspotted  from  the  world." 

We  should  not  overlook  this  latter  part  of  the  definition.  I  believe 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  improving  in  that  respect  in  _  keeping 
themselves  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world.  We  are  visiting  the 
widows  and  the  fatherless,  we  are  feeding  the  hungry ;  we  are  clothing 
the  naked ;  we  are  visiting  the  sick  and  the  afflicted  ;  and  we  are  taking 
care  of  the  stranger  and  feeding  him  the  bread  of  life,  as  opportunity 
is  afforded.     I  do  believe,  Latter-day  Saints,  that  when  we  pay  our 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

tithing  in  full,  conscientiously  before  the  Lord,  and  are  generous  in  the 
giving  of  our  offerings,  that  we  are  answering  the  requirement  of  the 
law,  and  there  will  be  none  to  suffer.  The  widow  and  the  orphan  will 
be  well  taken  care  of  in  the  Church,  if  we  all  attend  to  these  particular 
duties  in  faithfulness ;  and  the  Lord  will  reward  us  amply  for  our  efforts 
and  our  sacrifices  in  this  direction.  I  believe  that  the  people  today,  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  answer  the  call  to  leave  their  homes  and  go  into  the 
nations  of  the  earth  to  preach  the  gospel  among  strangers  as  readily 
as  they  ever  havei  done,  notwithstanding  the  individual  expense  of  the 
elders  is  almost  double  what  it  was  a  few  years  ago.  This  is  another 
evidence  of  faithfulness  which  inspires  confidence  in  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  It  is  the  young  people  in  the  main — our  sons  and  our  daugh- 
ters, who  are  called  to  bear  this  responsibility  and  to  make  this  sacri- 
fice. They  are  answering  the  calls  in  a  generous  and  satisfactory  man- 
ner and  the  Lord  takes  these  weak  men  and  women  and  with  them 
threshes  the  nations,  and  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  does  perish  before 
their  humble,  truthful  testimonies. 

SERIOUS    CONSEQUENCES    OF    THE    SIN    OF    NEGLECT. 

This  is  the  time,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  our  planting,  this 
period  of  our  eternal  progression,  while  we  are  here  in  mortal  life. 
If  in  the  season  of  the  planting  of  our  crop,  the  planting  be  neglected, 
there  will  be  no  time  of  reaping.  I  do  hope  that  we  will  bear  this 
thought  in  mind  and  make  every  preparation  that  is  necessary  while 
we  are  here  and  have  the  opportunity ;  that  when  we  go  beyond  we  will 
find  peace,  we  will  be  satisfied  with  that  which  we  have  to  reap  as  a 
result  of  our  life's  work  here.  The  Savior  gave  us  a  parable  that  is  very 
impressive  upon  this  point — at  least  to  my  mind.  It  re- 
fers to  the  rich  man  who  dressed  in  fine  apparel  and 
fared  sumptuous  every  day.  The  pear  man  lay  at  the  ga|te  of 
the  rich  man ;  the  dogs  licked  his  sores,  and  he  fain  would  have  taken 
the  crumbs  that  fell  from  the  rich  man's  table.  After  a  time  the  poor 
man  died,  and  the  angels  bore  his  spirit  to  the  paradise  of  heaven. 
The  rich  man  died  also,  and  went  to  hell ;  and  in  hell  he  lifted  up  his 
eyes  in  torment.  Seeing  Lazarus  afar  off  and  in  Abraham's  bosom  he 
cried  to  Abraham :  "Father  Abraham,  send  Lazarus  that  he  may  dip 
his  finger  in  water  and  touch  my  parched  tongue,  for  I  am  in  torment." 
You  know  the  answer.  That  was  impossible.  Then  the  next  request 
was  to  send  Lazarus  or  somebody  else  from  the  dead,  that  they  might 
go  down  to  earth  and  visit  his  five  brothers  that  they  might  be  spe- 
cially warned  that  they  might  not  come  to  his  fate.  But  that  was  im- 
possible. The  answer  was :  "They  have  Moses  and  the  prophets.  If 
they  hear  not  Moses  and  the  prophets,  neither  would  they  be  per- 
suaded though  one  were  sent  from  the  dead."  There  are  several  im- 
portant lessons  to  be  learned  from  this  parable ;  but  the  one  I  wish  to 
bring  to  your  attention  is  the  serious  consequence  of  the  sin  of  neglect. 
There  does  not  seem  to  have  been  any  other  charge  made  against  this 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS  29 

rich  man  than  that  he  had  the  means  to  do  with,  the  opportunity  was 
laid  before  him,  his  responsibility  he  clearly  saw,  and  ignored  it. 

OUR  DUTY  TO     FEED  THE  SPIRIT  AS  WELL  AS  THE  BODY. 

Now  it  is  a  blessing  to  feed  the  hungry,  to  clothe  the  naked.  That 
is  a  part  of  pure  religion  and  undefiled ;  but  I  have  thought  and  I  do 
feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  better  to  feed  the  soul  of  a  man 
or  woman  than  to  feed  the  body,  to  minister  unto  their  spiritual  and 
eternal  needs  and  welfare  rather  than  to  their  physical.  The  body 
must  perish  soon  anyway.  There  are  those  among  us  who  are  starving 
for  the  word  of  God.  They  are  wandering  from  sea  to  sea,  and  from 
the  north  even  unto  the  east,  running  to  and  fro,  seeking  the  word  of 
God  and  cannot  find  it.  They  do  not  hope  to  find  it  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  They  are  blinded  to  the  truth  which  we  have  received,  but 
we  know  we  have  received  the  responsibility  to  preach  it  in  all  the 
world  as  a  witness  unto  all  nations  before  the  end  shall  come.  This  is 
the  food  of  which  the  world  of  mankind  are  so  much  in  need  today, 
and  with  which  we  are  so  bountifully  blest.  It  is  that  kind  of  food 
that  we  can  give  to  those  who  are  in  need,  generously,  and  they  become 
the  happy  recipients  and  are  blest  through  it,  and  we  will  not  be  impov- 
erished. Indeed,  as  we  undertake  to  minister  unto  the  spiritual  needs 
of  men  and  women,  our  souls  grow  and  enlarge,  our  love  for  our 
fellow  men  increases ;  our  love  for  our  Father  in  heaven  and  our 
Savior  increases ;  our  love  and  appreciation  of  the  truth  also  increase, 
and  we  are  even  more  blest  than  they.  The  very  anticipation  and  desire 
to  do  good  brings  happiness  and  peace  to  our  souls.  On  the  other  hand, 
if  we,  having  the  abundance  of  this  spiritual  food,  and  knowing  those 
about  us  who  are  in  a  starving  condition,  if  we  fail  to  minister  unto 
their  needs  we  are  likely  to  experience  in  the  life  beyond,  a  disappoint- 
ment corresponding  with  that  of  the  rich  man  who  neglected  to  min- 
ister unto  the  needs  of  his  poor  neighbor.  As  it  is  more  blessed  to  feed 
the  soul,  so  is  it  a  greater  neglect,  a  greater  sin,  and  I  believe  will 
be  attended  by  a  greater  penalty  to  neglect  to  feed  the  souls  of  men 
and  women. 

NOW  IS  OUR  OPPORTUNITY  TO  BLESS  BOTH  THE  LIVING  AND  THE  DEAD. 

The  work  for  our  dead,  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have  not  been 
organized  in  the  past  to  do,  as  we  have  been  organized,  as  a  Church, 
to  preach  the  gospel  abroad.  We  have  been  left  to  our  individual  initia- 
tive largely,  in  this  matter  of  searching  for  the  genealogies  of  our  an- 
cestors and  going  up  to  the  temples  of  the  Lord  and  doing  the  work 
for  them.  This  responsibility  rests  heavily  upon  us,  and  some  of  us 
do  not  realize  it.  If  we  neglect  our  dead,  when  we  go  to  the  other 
side,  they  will  reproach  us,  and  that  will  be  hell  and  torment.  We 
may  desire  to  come  back  to  have  another  opportunity,  but  it  will  not  be 
afforded  us.  Now  is  the  time;  this  is  our  opportunity  to  bless  man- 
kind, both  the  living  and  the  dead,  and  to  prepare  an  eternity  beyond 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

that  will  be  one  of  peace,  contentment  and  all  that  our  hearts  can 
desire. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  recite  you  a  few  lines  impressive  of  this 
principle.    It  is  entitled  "A  Little  Parable/'  and  reads  like  this : 

"I  made  the  cross  myself,  whose  weight  was  later  laid  on  m.e, 
This  thought  is  torture  as  I  climb  up  life's  steep  Calvary. 
To  think  my  own  hands  drove  the  nails! 

I  sang  a  merry  song, 
And  chose  the  heaviest  wood  I  had, 

To  make  it  firm  and  strong. 

If  I   had   guessed, 

If  I  had  dreamed  its  weight  was  made  for  me, 

I  would  have  made  a  lighter  cross  to  bear  up  Calvary." 

May  the  Lord  add  his  blessings,  I  pray  in  Jesus  name,  Amen. 
The  Elite  Male  Quartet  sang,  "Jesus,  I  my  cross  have  taken." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

You  perhaps  have  noticed  from  the  announcement  in  the  paper, 
that  Elder  Whitney  will  go  to  Europe  to  preside  over  the  European 
mission,  succeeding  Elder  George  Albert  Smith ;  so  this  will  probably 
be  the  last  time  that  we  can  hear  from  Brother  Whitney  for  some 
months  at  least. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

For  the  past  fifteen  years  I  have  been  preaching  the  Gospel  in 
the  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  after  living  on  "stakes"  all  that  length  of  time, 
1  need,  and  it  seems  I  am  to  have,  a  change  of  diet.  If  you  wish  to 
know  how  I  feel  about  the  call  that  has  come  to  me,  I  will  tell  you : 
I  rejoice  in  it.  I  am  going  with  a  glad  heart  and  a  cheerful  counte- 
nance to  do  my  duty — is  I  have  done  it  here — on  the  other  side  of 
the  world. 

EARLY    MISSIONS   AND  APPOINTMENTS. 

This  will  not  be  my  first  mission  as  an  Elder  of  the  Church.  My 
first  mission  of  all  was  to  the  United  States,  from  1876  to  1878,  I 
labored  five  or  six  months  in  Pennsylvania,  and  theh  went  to  Ohio, 
my  father's  native  State,  where  the  Whitney  family  embraced  the 
Gospel  in  early  days.  While  I  was  in  Ohio  my  mother  wrote  to  me 
asking  why  I  did  not  return.  Said  she :  "AH  the  missionaries  who 
went  with  you,  or  went  at  the  same  time  that  you!  did,  are  back  home. 
Why  don't  you  come  ?"     I  answered :  "Because  I  have  not  been  re- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY.  31 

leased ;  and  I  shall  stay  here  until  I  receive,  without  any  solicitation 
on  my  part,  an  honorable  release  from  the  Presidency  of  the  Church." 
Having  been  honorably  released,  I  returned,  and  was  made  a 
Ward  Bishop.  1  served  in  the  Bishopric  for  nearly  twenty-eight  years, 
and  in  April  1906  was  called  into  the  position  that  I  now  occupy.  Mean- 
while, from  the  autumn  of  1881  until  the  summer  of  1883,  I  filled  a 
mission  in  Great  Britain,  laboring  most  of  the  time  as  assistant  editor 
of  the  Millennial  Star. 

NO  TIME  LIMIT. 

No  time  limit  was  placed  upon  my  missions.  I  never  felt  that 
1  ought  to  ask  for  a  release,  or  come  home  until  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  presiding  over  me  said :  "It  is  enough ;  you  are  at  liberty  to  re- 
turn." 

An  impression  now  prevails  in  the  mission  fields  among  some 
of  our  young  elders,  that  they  were  called  to  labor  for  a  set  time ;  and 
after  that  time  has  expired — say  eighteen  or  twenty  months — ihey 
seem  to  think  they  are  entitled  to  a  release,  and  some  even  ask  for 
it.  This  is  contrary  to  my  traditions  and  training.  I  have  never 
called  myself  upon  a  mission ;  have  never  appointed  myself  to  an  of- 
fice ;  and  have  never  thought  it  my  privilege  to  resign,  or  ask  to  be 
relieved  of  any  responsibility  in  connection  with  the  Lord's  work.  I 
have  responded  to  every  call  miade  upon  me  thus  far,  and  I  expect 
to  do  so  as  long  as  I  live. 

LABORS  OF  THE  TWELVE. 

In  times  past  some  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  have  worried  over 
the  question  of  the  labors  of  the  Twelve  apostles.  They  have  hinted 
that  we  ought  to  be  out  preaching  the  gospel  in  the  world — evidently 
overlooking  the  fact  that  the  Twelve  travel  under  the  direction  of 
the  First  Presidency;  that  they  do  not  call  themselves  upon  missions, 
but  have  to  wait  until  they  are  sent.  I  have  never  known  one  of  the 
apostles  to  refuse  or  even  hesitate  to  respond  to  ahy  call  that  came  to 
him  from  rightful  authority.  Years  ago  I  said  from  this  stand,  quot- 
ing a  little  verse  that  we  sometimes  sing: 

"I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear  Lord, 

On  mountain  on  land  or  on  sea; 
I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say,  dear  Lord, 

I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be." 

And  I  paraphrased  it  thus  : 

I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  g,o,  dear  Lord, 

I'll  go  whenever  you  say; 
But  till  I  am  sent  I'm  not  going  to  go — 

I'll  stay  where  you  want  me  to  stay. 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Now  that  I  have  been  appointed  to  go,  I  am  going ;  and  I  promise 
President  Grant  and  his  counselors,  and  you  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  I  shall  go  with  a  free  will  and  with  joy  in  my  heart,  having  no 
desire  to  be  released  at  the  expiration  of  any  set  time.  I  leave  that 
with  the  Lord.  I  am  going  where  he  wants  me  to  go,  and  will  stay 
there  as  long  as  he  wants  me  to  stay.  This  is  God's  work,  and  I  know 
it,  and  I  am  proud  and  happy  to  be  engaged  in  it. 

alma's  wish. 

I  would  like  to  read  you  a  few  paragraphs  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. A  Prophet  named  Alma,  standing  upon  the  American  Continent 
seventy-six  years  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior,  uttered  these  wonder- 
ful words: 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the 
earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people; 

"Yea,  I  would  declare  unto  every  soul,  as  with  the  voice  of  thunder, 
repentance,  and  the  plan  of  redemption,  that  they  should  repent  and  come 
unto  our  God,  that  there  might  not  be  more  sorrow  upon  all  the  face  of 
the  earth. 

"But  behold,  I  am  a  man,  and  do  sin  in  my  wish;  for  I  ought  to  be  con- 
tent with  the  things  which  the  Lord  hath  allotted  unto  me. 

"I  ought  not  to  harrow  up  in  my  desires  the  firm  decree  of  a  just  God 
for  I  know  that  he  granteth  unto  men  according  to  their  desire,  whether  it 
be  unto  death  or  unto  life;  yea,  I  know  that  he  allotteth  unto  men  according 
to  their  wills,  whether  they  be  unto  salvation  or  unto  destruction. 

"Yea,  and  I  know  that  good  and  evil  have  come  before  all  men;  he 
that  knoweth  not  good  from  evil  is  blameless;  but  he  that  knoweth  good 
and  evil,  to  him  it  is  given  according  to  his  desires;  whether  he  desireth 
good  or  evil,  life  or  death,  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience. 

"Now  seeing  that  I  know  these  things,  why  should  I  desire  more  than 
to  perform  the  work  to  which  I  have  been  called? 

"Why  should  I  desire  that  I  was  an  angel,  that  I  could  speak  unto  all 
the  ends  of  the  earth? 

"For  behold,  the  Lord  doth  grant  unto  all  nations,  of  their  own  nation 
and  tongue,  to  teach  his  word;  yea.  in  wisdom,  all  that  he  seeth  fit  that 
they  should  have;  therefore  we  see  that  the  Lord  doth  counsel  in  wisdom, 
according  to  that  which  is  just  and  true. 

"I  know  that  which  the  Lord  hath  commanded  me,  and  I  glory  in  it: 
I  do  not  glory  of  myself,  but  I  glory  in  that  which  the  Lord  hath  com- 
manded me;  yea,  and  this  is  my  glory,  that  perhaps  I  may  be  an  instrument 
in  the  hands  of  God,  to  bring  some  soul  to  repentance;  and  this  is  my  joy." 

PROVIDENCE  IS  OVER  ALL. 

Many  beautiful  lessons  might  be  drawn  from,  this  passage  of 
scripture,  but  I  have  only  time  to  dwell  upon  one.  It  tells  me  that 
Providence  is  over  all,  and  that  he  holds  the  nations  in  the  hollow  of 
his  hand;  that  he  is  using  not  only  his  covenant  people,  but  other 
peoples  as  well,  to  consummate  a  work,  stupendous,  magnificent,  and 
altogether  too  arduous  for  this  little  handful  of  Saints  to  accomplish 
by  and  of  themselves.    Alma  seems  to  have  thought,  for  the  moment, 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  33 

that  man  was  doing  God's  work  for  him,  instead  of  which  it  is  God, 
who  is  doing  his  own  work,  and  using  men  as  his  instruments. 
Nor  is  he  limited  in  the  choice  of  instruments  to  his  own  people.  He 
sways  the  scepter  over  all  nations,  and  they  are  all  playing  into  his 
hands,  knowingly  or  unknowingly.  Alma  knew  this,  but  had  mo- 
mentarily lost  sight  of  it. 

"of  their  own  nation  and  tongue." 

All  down  the  ages  men  bearing  the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood— patriarchs,  prophets,  apostles  and  others,  have  officiated  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  doing  the  things  that  he  required  of  them; 
and  outside  the  pale  of  their  activities  other  good  and  great  men,  not 
bearing  the  Priesthood,  but  possessing  profundity  of  thought,  great 
wisdom,  and  a  desire  to  uplift  their  fellows,  have  been  sent  by  the 
Almighty  into  many  nations,  to  give  therm,  not  the  fulness  of  the 
Gospel,  but  that  portion  of  truth  that  they  were  able  to  receive  and 
wisely  use.  Such  men  as  Confucius,  the  Chinese  philosopher ;  Zoroas- 
ter, the  Persian  sage ;  Guatama  or  Buddha,  of  the  Hindus ;  Socrates 
and  Plato,  of  the  Greeks;  these  all  had  some  of  the  light  that  is  uni- 
versally diffused,  and  concerning  which  we  have  this  day  heard.  They 
were  servants  of  the  Lord  in  a  lesser  sense,  and  were  sent  to  those 
pagan  or  heathen  nations  to  give  them  the  measure  of  truth  that  a 
wise  Providence  had  allotted  to  them. 

OTHER    AUXILIARIES 

And  not  only  teachers— not  poets  and  philosophers  alone;  but 
inventors,  discoverers,  warriors,  statesmen,  rulers,  et  al.  These  also 
have  been  used  from  the  beginning  to  help  along  the  Lord's  work — 
mighty  auxiliaries  in.  the  hands  of  an  Almighty  God,  carrying  out  his 
purposes,  consciously  or  unconsciously. 

"There's  a  divinity  that  shapes  our  ends, 
Rough  hew  them  as  we  will." 

The  God  of  Israel  used  Nebuchadnezzar,  king  of  Babylon,  to  pun- 
ish his  chosen  people  for  their  sins.  Jeremiah  the  Prophet  was  sent 
with  the  word  of  the  Lord  to  Zedekiah,  king  of  Judah,  commanding 
him  to  submit  to  the  Lord's  "servant" — this  same  Nebuchadnezzar. 
And  because  Zedekiah  refused  to  obey,  a  terrible  fate  befell  him;  his 
kingdom  was  overthrown,  his  eyes  were  put  out,  and  he  and  his 
people  were  carried  away  captive  into  Babylon.  Nebuchadnezzar 
was  a  great  king;  he  built  the  "Hanging  Gardens,"  one  of  the  seven 
wonders  of  the  world ;  but  he  arrogated  to  himself  the  glory  for  what 
God  had  done,  and  had  to  be  humbled  to  the  dust,  and  sent  forth  to 
eat  grass  like  the  ox,  until  "seven  times"  had  passed  over  him,  and 
he  had  learned  the  lesson  "that  the  Most  High  ruleth  in  the  king- 
dom of  men,  and  giveth  it  to  whomsoever  he  will." 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Babylon  was  overthrown  by  Cyrus  the  Persian,  a  great  and  good 
monarch,  called  by  the  Lord  "his  anointed,"  and  named  by  prophecy 
more  than  a  hundred  years  before  he  was  born.  Cyrus  was  instru- 
mental in  restoring  the  captive  Jews  to  their  own  icountry,  that  they 
might  rebuild  Jerusalem  in  time  for  the  Savior's  advent. 

When  the.  Medo-Persian  empire  'became  corrupt,  it  was  over- 
thrown by  Alexander  the  Great.  Alexander  conquered  the  world 
and  "wept,"  it  is  said,  "because  there  were  no  more  worlds  to  con- 
quer." He  died  a  drunkard,  or  from!  a  fever  caused  by  excess  of 
drink.  But  was  that  all  he  did?  Dean  Farrar  says  of  him  and  of  the 
great  service  he  unwittingly  rendered  to  the  cause  of  Christ: 
"The  immense  field  covered  by  the  conquests  of  Alexander 
gave  to  the  civilized  world  a  unity  of  language,  without  which  it 
would  have  been,  humanly  speaking,  impossible  for  the  earliest  preach- 
ers to  have  made  known  the  good  tidings  in  every  land  which  they 
traversed."  "Wherever  he  went,"  says  the  historian  McCabe,  "he  left 
the  Greek  language,  .  .  .all  powerful  in  drawing  the  nations  of 
the  old  world  into  a  closer  and  more  intimate  contact  with  each  other. 
.  .  .  At  a  later  period  the  Hebrew  Scriptures,  translated  into 
Greek,  were  made  accessible  to  the  .whole  world,  and  the  way  was 
thus  paved  for  the  mission  of  Him  of  whom  these  Scriptures  testify." 

This  also  from  Farrar:  "The  rise  of  the  Roman  Empire  created 
a  political  unity  which  reflected  in  every  direction  the  doctrines  of  the 
new  faith.  The  Gospel  emanated  from  the  capital  of  Judea;  it  was 
preached  in  the  tongue  of  Athens ;  it  was  diffused  through  the  Empire 
of  Rome ;  the  feet  of  its  earliest  missionaries  traversed  the  solid 
structure  of  undeviating  roads  by  which  the  Roman  legionaries — 
'those  massive  hammers  of  the  whole  earth' — had  made  straight  in  the 
desert  a  highway  for  our  God.  Semite  and  Aryan  had  been  uncon- 
scious instruments  in  the  hands  of  God  for  the  spread  of  a  religion 
which,  in  its  first  beginnings,  both  alike  detested  and  despised." 

AMERICA  A  NURSING  MOTHER. 

Coming  down  to  later  times,  we  have  but  to  open  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  see  how  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested  upon  a  man  among 
the  Gentiles,  impelling  him  across  the  great  .waters  to  the  Land  of 
Zion,  a  land  reserved  by  Providence  for  the  triumph  of  truth  and 
freedom  in  the  last  days — the  place  for  the  building  of  the  New  Jeru- 
salem and  the  beginning  of  the  work  of  preparation  that  will  have  to 
be  done  before  the  Lord  comes  in  his  glory.  Columbus  was  inspired 
to  discover  America  for  this  purpose,  though  he  knew  it  not.  After 
him  came  the  Pilgrim  Fathers ;  and  then  Washington,  Jefferson, 
Franklin,  Hamilton,  and  other  Patriots  of  the  Revolution,  all  moved 
upon  by  the  same  Spirit,  to  create  the  mighty  fabric  of  this  great 
Republic,  a  free  nation,  guaranteeing  liberty  to  its  citizens  of  every 
creed  and  of  no  creed,  and  raised  up  by  the  Almighty  to  play  the 
part  of  a  nursing  mother  to  the  restored  Church  of  Christ. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY  ,        35 

True,  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  been  persecuted  under  the  Stars 
and  Stripes  in  various  States  of  the  Union;  but  we  must  not  make 
the  mistake  of  supposing  that  it  was  (because  of  the  Flag,  or  of  the 
Constitution,  or  of  the  genius  of  the  American  government,  that  these 
deplorable  happenings  took  place.  No ;  it  was  not  because,  but  in  spite 
of  them.  Those  persecutions  were  inflicted  by  lawless  force,  by  mob 
violence,  ever  to  be  execrated  and  condemned  by  every  true  patriot. 
Let  us  credit  our  noble  Nation  with  what  it  has  done  in  the  direction 
of  filling  its  God-given  mission.  In  no  other  land — in  no  other  na- 
tion upon  this  land,  would  the  Lord's  people  have  been  treated  with 
the  same  degree  of  consideration.  In  no  other  country  on  earth  would 
this  work  have  been  permitted  to  come  forth.  This  nation  was 
founded  purposely,  that  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  might  be 
established  and  all  nations  bask  in  its  light  and  share  in  its  blessings. 

-truth's  triumph  inevitable. 

We  must  never  allow  ourselves  to  grow  misanthropic  or  fearful 
concerning  the  outcome.  The  success  of  this  work  is  assured.  The 
triumph  of  Truth  is  inevitable.  The  clouds,  may  gather,  the  billows 
rage,  the  tempests  burst  in  fury ;  but  the  unerring  Pilot  is  at  the  helm, 
and  the  Ship  steered  by  Him,  will  weather  every  storm. 

"Truth   forever   on   the   scaffold, 

Wrong  forever  on  the  throne. 
Yet  that  scaffold  sways  the  future, 

And  behind  the  dim  unknown 
Standeth  God  within  the  shadow, 

Keeping  watch  above  his  own." 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  stand  before  you  on  this  occasion 
with  great  timidity;  partly  because  I  ami  unaccustomed  to  speaking 
in  this  vast  auditorium  and  before  so  large  a  gathering  of  people, 
but  chiefly  because  I  sense  the  tremendous  responsibility  that  rests 
upon  all  who,  at  these  general  conferences,  are  called  upon  to  address 
the  Saints.     I  pray  for  your  support  and  your  faith  now  and  always. 

A   TESTIMONY. 

Nevertheless,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  glad  at  all  times 
to  have  the  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness 
of  this  work,  this  system  of  thought,  of  doctrine,  of  practice,  whicl. 
men  denominate  "Mormonismi,"  but  which  we  know  to  be  God's- 
eternal,)  unchanging  and  unchangeable  plan  of  salvation  for  the 
human  family.  I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  work  is 
true.  I  know  that  it  has  come  from  God  and  that  it  leads  men  back 
to  God  along  happy  and  joyous  paths.  This  testimony  has  been 
fed   and   strengthened,   throughout   these   two   meetings,    by   hean'ng 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  testimonies  of  the  Presidency  and  the  Apostles  who  have  spoken. 
I  trust  this  testimony  may  always  be  mine. 

THE   UNIFYING   POWER   OF   THE   GOSPEL. 

As  1  have  looked  over  the  congregations  this  morning  and  this 
afternoon,  no  thought  has  impressed  me  more  than  that  here  we 
have  all  classes  and  all  manner  of  people,  men  and  women  of  dif- 
ferent degrees  of  knowledge  and  of  varying  capacities;  yet  these 
people,  unlike  in  their  God-given  gifts,  are  finding  the  satisfaction 
of  their  lives,  after  they  have  once  accepted  the  gospel,  in  the  doc- 
trines and  the  life  within  the  Church.  Whether  of  high  or  of  low 
degree,  rich  or  poor,  learned  or  unlearned,  of  quick  or  of  slow  intel- 
ligence, from  Scandinavia,  Germany,  England  or  America,  these 
people,  because  of  the  gospel  and  through  the  gospel,  see  alike, 
apparently  think  alike,  and  very  largely  act  alike.  There  is  some- 
thing within  this  gospel  that  unifies  all  who  accept  it  and  who  belong 
to  it.  This  is  not  true  alone  of  this  generation  and  of  this  dispen- 
sation. It  has  /been  so  in  all  ages,  in  all  generations  and  in  all 
dispensations.  The  Patriarch  Enoch,  in  his  holy  city,  Abraham  on 
the  Plains  of  Mamre,  Moses  in  the  wilderness,  Samuel  in  God's  tem- 
ple, and  all  the  other  worthies  of  which  history  gives  an  account, 
gained  strength  and  found  the  solace  of  their  lives  in  the  identical 
gospel  to  which  we  adhere  and  to  which  we  give  our  allegiance. 

THE    CHURCH     MAKES    NO    APPEAL    TO    MYSTICISM. 

It  has  always  impressed  me  that  the  universality  of  the  appeal  of 
"Mormonism"  is  especially  remarkable  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  does  not  attempt  to  win 
support  by  specially  devised  appeals  to  the  emotions  of  men,  which 
is  so  frequently  the  case  with  other  Churches.  We  have  no  elaborate 
system  of  ritual ;  we  have  no  mystical  doctrines  to  lead  men  on  by 
the  appeal  of  the  unknown  ;  we  do  not  attempt  to  win  converts  by 
threatening  a  future  hell.  We  are  in  all  respects  plain  and  simple 
in  our  worship ;  in  fact,  in  this  Church,  which  believes  that  "the  glory 
of  God  is  intelligence,"  it  is  difficult  to  establish  doctrines  of  mysticism 
and  in  that  way  win  adherents  to  the  cause;  and  in  a  Church  which 
declares  that  there  is  a  graded  salvation,  within  the  ultimate  reach 
of  every  human  being,  if  he  cares  to  accept  of  it,  there  can  be  no 
deep-seated  fear  of  the  hereafter,  especially  when  we  have  been  told 
that  the  lowest  glory  of  this  graded  salvation  is  entirely  beyond  the 
understanding  and  wildest  fancy  of  'man. 

TFIE    TEST   OF    TRUTH    IS    SIMPLICITY. 

I  am  not  so  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  but  that  one  of  the 
strongest  evidences  of  the  truthfulness  of  "Mormonism"  lies  in  the 
fact  that  it  has  such  universal  appeal  to  men  and  women  of  all  capaci- 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  '         37 

ties  and  of  all  degrees  of  knowledge.  Truth  is  always  simple;  the 
test  of  truth  is  simplicity.  That  which  is  dimly  understood,  which 
confuses  the  mind  of  man,  is  likely  to  be  .but  partly  true.  The 
scientist  in  his  laboratory  applies  this  final  test  to  his  work.  When, 
after  many  months  or  years  of  labor,  he  finds  that  the  things  he  has 
discovered  can  be  told  simply  and  plainly  to  his  fellow  men,  he  is 
likely  to  say:  "Now  I  have  found  the  truth."  Men  and  women  of 
this  Church  have  accepted  the  Gospel  because  they  have  learned  to 
understand  it,  because  it  is  clear,  because  it  is  simple,  because  it  is  not 
surrounded  by  confusion  or  dimness  of  any  kind. 

To  enlarge  briefly  upon  this  thought,  the  reason  why  those  of 
great  mental  ability,  great  God-given  powers,  may  find  their  full  soul's 
satisfaction  in  the  gospel,  seems  to  me  to  be  that  the  truth  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  not  in  the  form  of  chunks  or  bits  of  truth,  isolated 
truths,  but  in  the  form  of  great  general  principles  or  laws — principles 
which  encompass  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  single  truths — 
principles  of  truth  that  interpret  and  illustrate  all  the  phenomena  that 
we  find  as  we  journey  through)  life.  To  know  that  the  sun  shines  upon 
the  earth,  and  in  that  way  gives  the  earth  energy,  is  an  important  and 
interesting  fact,  but  it  does  not  interpret  the  universe.  The  great  law  of 
gravitation,  the  law  of  the  indestructibility  of  matter,  and  other  such 
fundamental  laws,  however,  do  interpret  not  only  the  relationship  of 
the  sun  to  the  earth,  but  innumerable  of  the  varied  ifacts  of  the 
universe.  The  basic  principles  of  the  gospel  are  of  such  comprehensive 
nature.  They  may  be  unyielding,  they  may  never  be  departed  from, 
but  they  point  with  certainty  the  road  that  men  may  travel  to  dis- 
cover all  the  incidental  truths  'that  may  be  desirable  in  life.  The 
mightiest  intellect  will  never  exhaust  these  great  laws.  Many  religions 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth  rest  upon  one  isolated  truth.  Each  has 
taken  a  great,  glittering,  .brilliant  truth,  and  upon  it  has  erected  an 
elaborate  system ;  but  because  it  is  only  one  truth  of  many  belonging 
to  a  great  principle — which  principle  is  not  understood  in  full — the 
system  of  religion  is  not  likely  to  prevail  forever  arriiOng  men. 

DANGER    IN    DEPARTING    FROM    FUNDAMENTAL    TRUTHS, 

I  want  to  bear  you  this  testimony,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
we  have  in  this  Church  the  great,  everlasting  principles  of  truth,  the 
basic  laws  of  truth  upon  which  we  may  erect  the  spiritual  and  religious 
structure  of  our  lives,  here  and  hereafter.  I  want  to  say  also  that 
it  is  my  conviction  that  the  greatest  danger  that  may  affect  this 
Church  at  any  time  is  to  depart,  ever  so  little,  from  these  fundamental 
principles.  All  that  we  do,  all  that  we  plan  to  do,  must  be  tied  to 
the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Gospel.  Then  we  shall  have  no 
apostasy  in  this  Church.  The  apostasies  of  past  dispensations,  have 
come  ordinarily  when  some  one  has  taken  a  glittering,  desirable 
truth,  and  magnified  it  to  the  forgetfulness  of  the  principle  to  which 
it  belongs. 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Some  may  say  that  this  doctrine  stops  all  progress.  If  we  have 
solid,  substantial,  unchanging  principles  which  may  never  be  departed 
from,  then  how  is  progress  possible?  Yet,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
you  all  know  that  the  only  real  progress  possible  in  this  world  is  that 
which  is  based  upon  adherence  to  simple,  general  laws)  of  truth.  When 
man  discovers  some  great  law  pertaining  to  the  universe,  and  builds 
upon  it,  then  he  and  science  both  make  progress.  The  great  principles 
or  laws  of  truth  may  be  likened  to  the  great  steel  structure  of  one  of 
our  lofty  office  buildings — rigid,  firm  and  bolted  together  so  that  it 
may  not  move  or  change — yet  within  those  steel  beams  and  girders, 
around  them,  above  them,  below  them,  are  built  floors  and  walls  and 
doors  and  windows  and  decorations  until  the  structure  meets  every 
want  of  those  for  whom  it  is  intended.  i 

WE    MUST   USE   AS    WELL  AS   POSSESS   TRUTH. 

I  trust  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  people  of  this  Church 
may  forever  study  and  understand  and  adhere  to  these  fundamental 
principles  of  doctrine  and  of  organization  which  lie  at  the  foundation 
of  the  persistence  of  this  Church,  in  this  time  and  in  the  time  here- 
after. May  we  also  remember  that  to  possess  truth  is  only  a  part  of 
the  problem.  We  must  use  it  also ;  and  truth  cannot  be  used  properly 
or  wisely  unless  we  do,  as  has  been  explained  here  this  afternoon, 
apply  to  it  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  of  God.  The  two  great- 
gifts  to  this  Church  are  the  gifts  of  truth  and  authority.  May  we 
Latter-dav  Saints  remember  them,  treasure  them,  and  not  depart  from 
them ;  and  may  they  be  with  us  always,  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  feel  very  humble  this  afternoon  in  standing  here  before  this 
vast  congregation.  Yet  I  am  made  to  rejoice  in  the  testimonies  which 
have  been  borne  by  those  who  have  spoken,  both  at  this  session  and  at 
the  opening  session  of  this  conference.  T  have  been  greatly  interested, 
and  I  trust  that  I  may  'be  led  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  say  that 
which  I  ought  to  say  in  the  few  moments  that  I  stand  here. 

GOD  IS  AT  THE  HELM. 

God  is  at  the  helm,  as  Elder  Whitney  has  said.  I  greatly  rejoice, 
as  I  know"  you  rejoice,  in  that  great  fundamental  truth.  This  is  not 
the  work  of  man.  It  was  not  instituted  by  man.  but  by  the  Lord  and 
Savior  of  this  world.  I  am  as  fully  convinced,  I  believe,  I  was  going 
to  say,  as  any  man,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  and  appointed  in  the 
very  manner  in  which  he  has  borne  testimony ;  that  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  rested  upon  him,  that  he  was  called  to  usher  in  the  dispensation 
in  which  we  live,  to  establish  the  gospel  in  its  fulness,  to  restore  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  39 

Priesthood,  which  is  power  from  our  Father  in  heaven,  by  which  we 
are  able  to  officiate  in  all  the  ordinances  of  the  gx>sriel  for  the  salvation 
of  the  souls  of  men.  I  am  firmly  convinced  of  these  truths.  The  Lord 
has  not  left  us  to  wander ;  he  has  not  left  us  alone  in  the  world  to  grope 
in  darkness,  but  the  Church  which  he  has  founded  is  guided  by  the 
spirit  of  revelation,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  rests  upon  those 
who  stand  at  the  head.  They  are  not  doing  this  work  in  their  own 
name,  they  are  not  endeavoring  to  establish  themselves,  but  to  carry 
out  the  plan  which  the  Lord  has  revealed,  and  to  make  known  Unto 
the  children  of  men  the  great  desire  of  our  Father,  that  all  men  mav  be 
saved  through  obedience  to  the  gospel  and  receive  a  place  and  standing 
in  his  kingdom. 

FUNDAMENTAL  PRINCIPLES  DO  NOT  CHANGE  IN  THE  COURSE  OF  PROGRESS. 

President  Ivins  this  morning  drew  our  attention  to  some  things 
pertaining  to  the  establishing,  the  ushering  in,  of  this  great  and 
marvelous  work,  as  it  is  spoken  of,  in  these  latter-days.  He  referred  to 
the  youth  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  how  he  was  called,  how  the 
Lord  made  himself  known  unto  him ;  how  he  was  appointed,  not  only 
to  establish  the  Church,  but  to  give  unto  us  a  great  volume  of  scripture 
which  volume  contains  the  doctrines,  the  teachings,  and  the  history  of 
a  great  people  who  dwelt  upon  this  continent.  As  he  was  speaking, 
and  as  o*rier  brethren  have  been  speaking  here,  regarding  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel,  my  heart  was  made  glad  in  reflecting  on  the  great 
truth  referred  to  this  afternoon,  that  this  work  is  based  upon  fundamen- 
tal principles  that  do  not  change.  They  must  not,  they  cannot  change, 
because  they  are  eternal.  I  believe  in  progression ;  we  all  believe  in 
progression :  and  the  Lord  has1  not  curtailed  us  in  any  respect,  but  we 
cannot  substitute  the  ideas  of  men  for  that  which  the  Lord  has  given, 
or  the  plan  which  he  has  adopted  and  revealed  to  us,  by  which  we 
may  be  saved.  For  instance,  there  is  no  name  other  than  that  of 
Jesus  Christ  by  which  men  shall  be  saved.  Men  may  formulate 
plans  and  adopt  theories  and  introduce  strange  works  and  gather  and 
teach  many  peculiar  doctrines,  but  this  teaching  is  fundamental  and 
from  it  we  cannot  depart,  that  all  things  are  concentrated  in  and 
around  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  So 
we  accept  him  as  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  as  ex- 
plained by  President  Penrose,  the  only  one  who  has  dwelt  in  the  flesh 
who  had  a  Father  who  was  immortal.  We  must  accept,  and  do  ac- 
cept, the  great  truth  that  because  of  his  birthright,  and  of  the  conditions 
surrounding  his  coming  into  the  earth,  he  became  the  Redeemer  of 
men,  and  that  through  the  shedding  of  his  blood'  we  are  privileged 
again  to  return  into  the  presence  of  our  '  Father,  on  conditions  oi 
our  repentance  and  acceptance  of  the  great  plan  of  redemption  of  which 
he  is  the  author.  We  must  believe  in  the  resurrection  of  the  dead, 
absolutely  so,  that  every  soul  born  upon  the  face  of  this  earth  shall 
come  forth  in  the  resurrection,  either  of  the  just  or  of  the  unjust,  for 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  resurrection  shall  be  universal,  and  that,  too,  through  the  great 
atonement  which  was  made  by  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

PERFECTION    W'OUttD  fRESULT  IF  THE  REVELATIONS  OF  THE  LORD  WERE 

OBSERVED. 

I  look  over  this  congregation  and  I  see,  as  Brother  Widtsoe  has 
already  expressed  himself  as  seeing,  people  who  have  been  gathered 
from  the  nations,  who  have  been  brought  here  through  the  preaching 
of  the  gospel,  for  the  purpose  of  worshiping  the  Lord,  with  desires  in 
their  hearts  of  keeping  his  commandments  and  of  receiving,  through 
faithfulness,  an  exaltation  in  his  kingdom.  Immediately  in  front  of 
this  stand  are  a  great  many  faithful,  true  Latter-day  Saints,  men  of 
renown,  men  who  are  filled  with  the  spirit  of  truth,  who  are  intelli- 
gent, and  on  whom  the  Lord  has  conferred  the  Priesthood,  which  is  his 
power,  by  which  they  officiate  in  his  name  for  the  salvation  of  souls. 
This  causes  me  to  reflect  somewhat  upon  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
how  the  Lord  has  established  all  things  in  order  and  has  given  us  a 
perfect  svstem.  We  cannot  improve  upon  it.  Tf  we  would  carry  out 
that  which  the  Lord  has  revealed,  as  he  has  revealed  it,  then  all  things 
would  be  perfect ;  for  the  organization  is  a  perfect  organization,  the 
theory  of  it,  the  plan  of  it,  is  without  flaw,  and  if  we  followed  all  the 
orders  that  have  been  given  to  us  in  the  priesthood  and  otherwise,  if 
we  would  put  into  practice  the  great  doctrines  which  have  been  re- 
vealed in  the  revela+ions  contained  in  the  Holy  Scriptures,  it  would 
only  be  a  matter  of  a  very  short  time  until  this  great  people  would  be 
in  the  same  condition,  absolutely,  as  were  the  people  in  the  city  of 
Enoch.  We  would  be  able  to  walk  with  God,  we  would  be  able  to 
behold  his  face,  because  then  faith  would  abound  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people  to  the  extent  that  it  would  be  impossible  for  the  Lord  to  with- 
hold himself,  and  he  would  reveal  himself  unto  us  as  he  has  clone  in 
times  past.  Now1  I  base  that  largely  upon  the  expressions  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Referring  to  the  revelation  made  known  to  the  brother  of 
.Tared  we  read  that  so  great  was  his  faith  it  was  impossible  for  the  Lord 
to  withhold  himself.  Not  only  was  it  possible,  through  his  great 
faith,  for  that  great  prophet  to  see  the  finger  of  the  Lord,  but  the  Lord 
was  under  the  necessity  of  making  himself  manifest  and  showing  his 
entire  bodv,  the  body  of  his  spirit — ;for  it  was  not  then  a  tabernacle  of 
flesh  and  bones. 

ORDER  AND  PERFECTION   IN   THE  ORGANIZATION   OF  THE   CHURCH. 

How  perfect  is  this  organization.  It  was  not  all  given  at  once,  and 
therein  is  made  manifest'  the  truth  of  the  statement  of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  that  he  was  taught  of  God ;  for  this  work  was  not  all 
ushered  in  at  once,  but  the  Lord  revealed  unto  him  as  occasion  required 
it — here  a  little  and  there  a  little,  until  the  full  grandeur  of  it  was  made 
known.     The  first  officers  in  the  Church  were  elders,  two  elders  ap- 


ELDER  POSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  41 

pointed  by  that  small  body  who  gathered  on  the  6th  day  of  April, 
1830,  to  officiate  for  them.  But  as  time  advanced  and  as  the  Church 
grew  in  numbers,  it  became  necessary  that  other  officers  should  be 
called  and  therefore  we  received  high  priests  and  bishops  and  patri- 
archs and  a  little  later,  seventies  and  apostles,  and  the  whole  plan  was 
made  known  in  its  glory  as  we  have  it  now  in  the  Church.  The  Lord 
revealed,  even  in  the  beginning,  the  order  of  the  various  quorums,  or 
rather  the  duties  of  the  various  quorums  of  the  Priesthood.  He  taught 
us  the  duties  of  elders,  the  duties  of  teachers,  the  duties  of  deacons,  and 
later  of  high  priests  when  they  were  made  known,  and  even  before  that 
the  duties  of  apostles,  and  then  the  duty  of  patriarchs  and  of  each 
branch  of  the  priesthood.  The  duty  of  teachers  is  to  visit  in  the  homes 
of  the  people  to  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  there,  that  there  is  no  back- 
biting, no  fault-finding,  that  all  the  members  perform  their  duty;  the 
duty  of  the  priests  is  to  go  into  the  homes  of  the  people  to  teach  them 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  and  not  wait  until  they  can  attend  the  Sun- 
day school  or  a  Mutual  Improvement  organization  or  even  a  quorum 
meeting  of  the  priesthood.  All  this  is  good,  all  this  is  necessary  as  a 
part  of  the  plan  which  the  Lord  has  given  us,  but  the  priests  were  to 
go  into  the  homes  of  the  people  and  there  instruct,  there  reveal,  there 
make  known  unto  the  family,  the  will  of  the  Lord.  Thus  the  Lord 
prepared  this  plan  and  reveaJed  it  to  us  that  we  might  walk  in  a  know- 
ledge of  the  truth,  in  righteousness  and  in  humility.  If  we  followed 
it  as  perfectly  as  the  Lord  intends  that  we  should  there  would  be  no 
iniquity  in  this  Church,  there  would  be  no  fault-finding,  there  would 
be  no  jealousy,  there  would  be  no  envying,  no  strife,  no  bitterness  in 
the  hearts  of  members  of  this  Church  against  other  members,  for  all 
that  would  be  done  away,  and  we  would  stand  with  one  united  front, 
and  with  one  desire  in  our  hearts  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his 
commandments.  But  we  are  frail,  we  are  mortals,  we  do  not  live  up  to 
all  of  the  requirements  that  are  made  of  us.  We  fall  short  some- 
times in  many  respects.  We,  being  imperfect,  and  the  Lord  being 
under  the  necessity  of  using  us  as  his  instruments,  the  great  plan  as 
he  has  given  it  is  somewhat  below  the  great  standard  which  he  has  set, 
and  we  do  not  reach  those  heights  which  we  should. 

OUR    DUTY    TO    MISSIONARY    WORK. 

But  it  is  my  duty,  as  it  is  your  duty,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters  like- 
wise— for  responsibility  is  placed  also  upon  you — to  do  the  very  best 
that  is  within  our  power,  and  not  to  shirk,  but  endeavor  with  all  our 
soul  to  magnify  the  callings  the  Lord  has  given  us,  to  labor  diligenty  for 
the  salvation  of  our  own  house,  each  one  of  us,  and  for  the  salvation  of 
our  neighbors,  the  salvation  of  those  who  are  abroad ;  and  so  the  gospel 
is  to  be  preached,  as  we  have  heard,  to  the  nations  in  the  world,  as  well 
as  here  in  the  stakes  of  Zion.  But  let  us  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact — and 
I  do  not  think  that  we  do — that  a  soul  here  at  home  is  just  as  precious 
in  the  sight  of  God  as  is  one  from  abroad;  and  there  is  a  great  mis- 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

sion  field  right  here  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  might  im- 
prove in  our  faith,  might  improve  our  works,  might  improve  in  our 
fellowship  and  standing  in  this  Church.  There  are  among  us  a  great 
many  honest  souls  who  have  never  accepted  the  opportunity,  or  have 
never  taken  the  trouble  to  search,  that  they  might  find  these  glorious 
truths  which  have  been  made  known  in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord. 
They  do  not  think  of  these  things,  they  live  among  us,  we  associate  with 
them  and  we  come  in  contact  with  them  daily.  They  think  we  are  a 
pretty  nice  sort  of  people,  but  peculiar  in  our  religious  views,  and 
therefore  they  pay  no  attention  to  our  faith,  and  therefore  this  great 
missionary  work  that  is  being  carried  on  now  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  is 
gathering  in  a  harvest  of  honest,  faithful  souls  right  here  from  among 
those  who  before  had  never  taken  the  opportunity,  I  say,  which  has 
been  theirs,  to  hear  the  gospel. 

Now,,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  these  are  some  of  the  reflections 
that  have  come  to  my  mind  this  afternoon.  I  realize  that  my  remarks 
have  been  somewhat  disjointed,  not  altogether  in  the  one  line  of  thought, 
but  nevertheless  I  want  to  say  this  in  conclusion,  that  the  Lord  is  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  his  Spirit  is  resting  upon  this  people,  and 
he  requires  of  us  that  we  go  before  him  in  humility,  forsaking  our  sins, 
our  jealousies,  our  evil  thoughts,  our  envyings,  our  strifes,  if  such 
things  exist,  and  of  course,  more  or  less,  they  do  exist  in  the  hearts 
of  the  people ;  and  he  expects  that  we  love  one  another.  That  I  pray  we 
shall  do,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

ARIZONA  APPROPRIATES    $2,500    TO   "MORMON"    BATTALION   MONUMENT. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  all  that  has  been  said  here  today  and  endorse 
most  heartily  the  remarks  of  my  brethren.  I  have  a  little  note  from 
Brothers  J.  W.  Lesueur  and  Andrew  Kimball  of  Arizona,  the  pres- 
idents of  Maricopa  and  St.  Joseph  stakes.  They  call  my  attention  to 
the  fact  that  the  Arizona  legislature  has  appropriated  $2,500  for  a  Mor- 
mon Battalion  Monume'nt;  that  the  majority  of  all  the  agricultural  set- 
tlements in  Arizona  were  begun  by  the  "Mormon"  people;  that  the 
State  of  Arizona  will  issue  next  month  the  Mormon  Settlement  book 
giving  an  account  of  the  settlements  of  our  people  in  Arizona,  a  book 
of  four  hundred  pages,  with  sixty  illustrations.  The  state  of  Arizona 
is  publishing  a  history  of  that  state,  and  this  volume  is  a  part  of  it. 
This  volume  alone  will  cost  approximately  $15,000.  The  Governor  of 
Arizona  and  the  Historian  of  the  state  have  devoted  a  great  deal  of 
time,  and  our  friend  and  brother,  LeRoi  C.  Snow,  has  been  employed 
in  the  Historian's  office  there.  We  understand  that  if  this  volume  is 
sold  at  the  price  at  which  they  will  sell  it,  the  state  will  be  at  a 
loss  of  fully  $10,000.  I  have  had  a  brief  letter  from  Brother  Snow, 
enclosing  a  full  account  of  the  contents  of  the  book,  but  I  have  been 
too  busy,  since  I  returned  from  the  coast,  to  read  the  same. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  43 

"the  deseret  news"  commended. 

After  announcing  the  time  and  place  of  various  meetings,  Presi- 
dent Grant  continued,  referring  to  the  Cantata  of  Prof.  Evan  Stephens, 
and  to  the  splendid  editorial  in  the  Saturday  News  regarding  the  Can- 
tata, and  said :  "You  should  all  take  the  News.  The  Deseret  News  is 
the  organ  of  the  Church,  and  it  is  entitled  to  the  support  of  all  Israel. 
Because  it  is  an  excellent  paper,  and  also  because  of  the  announce- 
ments which  are  made  there  by  the  Presidency,  from  time  to  time, 
and  other  matter  it  contains,  the  paper  should  be  in  the  homes  of  the 
people.    Read  the  editorial  regarding  the  Cantata  wheln  you  get  home. 

reference  to  changes  in  the  relief1  society. 

There  is  one  thing  I  forgot — and  I  regret  it  exceedingly.  In  the 
meeting  of  the  Relief  Society  yesterday,  I  forgot  to  invite  all  of  the 
honored  and  released  members  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Relief  So- 
ciety, who  in  years  past  have  sat  there  to  the  right  of  this  stand  to 
continue  to  occupy  seats  with  the  new  mlembers  of  the  Board.  They 
have  our  love,  our  confidence  and  our  blessings,  and  we  want  them 
to  know,  as  we  have  said  to  our  retired  mission  presidents,  that  there 
is  always  a  place  reserved  for  them  at  our  General  Conference  meet- 
ings. I  have  been  sorry  this  afternoon,  in  looking  for  the  familiar 
faces,  that  I  forgot  to  make  this  announcement  yesterday.  We  want 
our  sisters  here,  they  have  our  love  and  our  confidence,  and  our 
blessing  for  their  past  labors,  and  our  prayers  for  their  future  hap- 
piness. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Lord  Victorious." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Joseph  C.  Bentley  of  the 
Juarez  stake,  Mexico. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m.,  Monday,  April  4. 


FIRST  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

An  overflow  meeting  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  April  3,  1921. 

Elder  Charles  A.  Callis,  President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission, 
presided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  LeGrand  ward  choir,  Liberty 
stake,  Heber  K.  Aldous,  conductor,  and  James  Gilbert  and  Gladys 
Spry  accompanists.  The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Come,  let  us 
anew  our  journey  pursue." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards,  of  the  Sugar 
House  ward,  Granite  stake. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Father  in  Heaven." 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

ELDER  WINSLOW  FARR  SMITH 

{President  of  the  Northern,  States  Mission.) 

We  are  met  today  in  our  General  Conference,  and  this  particular 
conference,  in  the  spring  of  the  year,  brings  to  our  minds  the  wonderful 
experience  that  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  had  101  years  ago.  As  I  pon- 
der the  glorious  revelation  that  was  vouchsafed  to  him,  and  look  back 
upon  the  early  days  of  his  ministry,  I  sometimes  wonder  if  he.  in  his 
wildest  fancies,  in  his  greatest  hopes  and  ambitions,  dreamed  that,  in 
the  short  space  of  one  century,  conferences  of  the  Church  would  be 
held  where  there  would  be  in  attendance  thousands  and  tens  of  thous- 
ands of  its  members.  To  me  these  gatherings  are  a  testimony  that  the 
work  is  of  our  heavenly  Father,  that  it  has  his  sanction,  and  that  that 
which  we  are  doing  and  striving  to  do  has  his  hearty  approval.  He  is 
blessing  us  and  sustaining  us  in  our  efforts  to  do  that  which  he  gave  to 
his  children,  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  at  the  beginning  of 
the  last  century.  Nowhere  in  the  world  is  there  a  gathering  of  people 
comparable  with  these  conference  meetings  held  in  Salt  Lake  City  today, 
and  for  the  next  two  or  three  days.  Nowhere  in  the  world  is  there 
such  a  gathering  of  men  and  women  giving  their  all  for  the  great  work 
of  the  Master.  Nowhere  on  earth  will  you  find  the  body  of  men  bearing 
the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God,  that  you  find  here  in  Zion,  on  the 
occasion  of  these  conferences.  The  power,  the  influence,  and  the  spirit 
of  these  gatherings,  are  carried  into  all  the  world  by  the  men  and 
women,  who  come  here  and  attend  these  meetings. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  know  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  to  know  that,  in  this  day  and  age,  a  mighty  work  has  been 
begun,  and  that  we,  the  children  of  our  Father,  are  active  in  this 
great  work. 

I  rejoice  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  privilege  of 
being  here  and  bearing  my  testimony.  I  am  grateful  for  the  oppor- 
tunity of  being  as  helpful  as  I  can,  in  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  trust  that 
in  coming  together  we  have  done  so  with  one  thought  only,  and  that  is 
to  strengthen  ourselves,  to  build  ourselves  up,  so  that  when  we  go  back 
to  our  homes,  to  our  wards,  to  our  stakes,  to  our  various  activities, 
we  will  take  with  us  a  stronger  testimony,  and  a  firmer  determination 
to  do  the1  work  that  God  has  placed  in  our  hands.  We  make  wonder- 
ful claims  to  the  world.  In  fact,  there  is  no  body  of  religious  wor- 
shipers making  a  claim  that  compares  with  ours.  We  stand  aloof  from 
all  the  world,  and  in  our  aloofness,  we  maintain  a  position  that  is  true 
or  false.  If  it  is  true,  and  we  know  that  it  is,  we  have  taken  upon 
ourselves  the  most  tremendous  responsibility  that  any  people  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  has  been  called  to  bear.  We  declare  to  the  world 
that  with  us,  in  our  Church  alone,  in  our  organization,  is  the  power  of 
the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God.  We  declare  to  the  world  that  with 
us  alone  there  rests  the  right  to  officiate  in  the  name  of  Him  on  high ; 


ELDER  WIN  SLOW  FARR  SMITH  45 

and,  in  this  declaration,  we  place  before  the  world  something  that, 
sooner  or  later,  it  must  acknowledge.  Individually  there  is  responsi- 
bility. We  cannot  live  careless  lives,  failing  to  walk  uprightly  before 
our  heavenly  Father,  and,  at  the  same  time,  hope  to  convince  the  world 
of  the  great  claims  we  make.  We  make  bold  declaration  in  our  articles 
of  faith ;  yet  something  plain  and  understandable.  We  say  to  the 
world :  "We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus 
Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost.  We  believe  that  men  will  be  punished 
for  their  own  sins,  and  not  for  Adam's  transgression.  We  believe  that 
through  the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind  may  be  saved;  by  obe- 
dience to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  We  believe  that 
these  first  principles  and  ordinances  are:  first,  faith  in  the  Lord,  Jesus 
Christ ;  second,  repentance ;  third,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins ;  fourth,  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy, 
and  by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority,  to  preach 
the  gospel,  and  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof.  We  believe  in 
the  same  organization  that  existed  in  the  primitive  church,  namely, 
apostles,  prophets,  pastors,  teachers,  evangelists,  etc.  We  believe  in 
the  gift  of  tongues,  prophecy,  revelation,  visions,  healing,  interpreta- 
tion of  tongues,  etc.  We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God,  as 
far  as  it  is  translated  correctly ;  we  also  believe  the  Book  of  Mormon 
to  be  the  word  of  God.  We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that 
he  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great 
and  important  things  pertaining  to  the  kingdom  of  God." 

It  is  that  old  fashioned  religion,  which  we  declare ;  that  religion 
that  God  gave  in  the  beginning.  It  is  the  plan  of  salvation  to  his 
children.  It  is  the  same  religion  that  he  has  given,  time  and  time 
again.  It  is,  in  fact,  the  same  plan,  with  the  same  laws,  the  same  or- 
dinances, the  same  gifts  and  blessings,  that  he  gave  through  his  Son, 
Jesus  Christ,  when  he  was  here  fulfilling  his  earthly  mission.  We  be- 
lieve these  things,  and  we  declare  them  to  the  world.  We  go  forth, 
giving  our  time,  our  means,  and  sacrificing,  that  the  world  may  know 
them.  Then,  brethren  and  sisters,  with  this  belief,  there  rests  upon 
us  the  responsibility  of  living  so  that  the  world  by  our  lives,  and  by 
our  fruits,  will  see  that  we  really  do  believe  the  things  that  we  declare, 
and  not  only  say  that  we  do.  Our  responsibility  is  of  the  greatest,  in- 
dividually and  collectively,  and  we  will  stand  before  the  judgment  seat 
of  our  heavenly  Father,  and  we  will  be  judged  according  to  that  which 
we  will  do.  We  will  be  judged  according  to  that  which  we  know. 
When  the  time  comes  that  we  will  be  called  to  stand  before  the  great 
"white  throne,"  "the  books"  will  be  opened,  and  righteous  judgment 
will  be  meted  out.  We  will  be  called  to  answer  for  the  degree  in 
which  we  have  fulfilled  our  mission,  and  done  our  duty  here  on  the 
earth. 

Your  sons  and  your  daughters,  your  boys  and  your  girls,  are 
going  into  the  world  by  the  hundreds  and  by  the  thousands.     They  are 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

declaring  this  message.  They  are  working  hard.  They  are  sacrific- 
ing, they  are  meeting  opposition,  they  are  taking  the  revilings,  and  the 
scoffs,  and  the  scorn  of  the  world.  Why?  Because  they  know  that 
this  thing  is  true.  Are  you,  my  brethren,  and  sisters,  supporting  them  ? 
Are  you  back  of  them  with  your  faith  and  prayers  ?  Are  you  sending 
them  words  of  encouragement?  If  you  are  not,  you  are  not  doing  your 
part  in  bearing  the  responsibility.  Are  you  criticising  the  priesthood  ? 
Are  you,  in  your  homes,  speaking  evil  of  the  men  who  are  called  to  pre- 
side in  your  ward,  in  your  stake,  or  in  the  Church  at  large?  Are  you 
sharing  with  these  men,  in  the  mission  field,  fully  their  responsibility  ? 
If  you  are  not,  then  there  is  room  for  improvement,  and"  you  will  be 
called  to  answer  before  the  throne  of  our  Father,  when  the  time  comes 
that  you  shall  be  judged.  I  testify  to  you  that,  this  being  a  divine  work, 
we  dare  not  do  anything,  or  say  anything  that  will  retard  its  on- 
ward progress.  It  is  the  work  of  our  heavenly  Father,  who  is  God 
Jesus  Christ  is  his  son,  and,  in  this  age,  he  has  raised  up  a  prophet  to  do 
a  great  and  mighty  work,  and  to  you  and  to  me  has  come  the  duty 
of  sharing  the  responsibility  of  the  work.  Let  us  bear  it.  Let  us  sus- 
tain the  authorities  of  the  Church.  Let  us  magnify  every  calling  that 
comes  to  us,  and  live  our  religion  in  the  home,  so  that  when  our  boy 
or  our  girl  goes  into  the  mission  field,  he  or  she  will  go  from  a  home 
where  God  has  been  served,  and  where  his  religion  has  been  lived.  Then 
when  our  boy,  on  a  mission,  writes  letters  home  and  bears  testimony  of 
the  joy  he  has  in  his  labors,  our  own  joy  will  be  greater,  and  we  will 
feel  fully  comforted  for  the  sacrifice  we  make  for  him,  and  for  the 
Church. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  hold  member- 
ship in  the  Church,  and  to  bear  the  Priesthood  of  the  living  God.  Can 
you  conceive  of  anything  more  glorious?  Why,  we  may  die  tomor- 
row. We  will  all  be  called  some  day ;  this  may  be  our  last.  Are  our 
lives  right?  Have  we  ordered  them  and  lived  them  so  that  if  our  call 
should  come,  we  are  ready?    Can  we  say  we  have  done  our  duty? 

I  rejoice  in  this  privilege  of  meeting  with  you.  I  rejoice  in  the  men 
that  God  has  placed  over  us  to  lead  us  in  this  work.  I  sustain  and 
support  them  with  my  whole  heart  and  soul.  They  are  the  choicest 
men  of  this  world  today.  Their  hearts  and  souls  are  in  this  work.  Let 
us  be  loyal,  let  us  be  true ;  let  us  remember  that  this  is  God's  work,  and 
that  it  will  triumph.  If  we  hold  fast,  we  will  triumph  with  it.  If  we 
fall  aside,  we  will  not  be  greatly  missed,  and  the  Church  will  go  on 
just  the  same,  but  the  day  will  come  that  we  will  feel  keenly  our  loss. 

May  God  bless  us  and  preserve  us;  may  he  prosper  us;  may  his 
work  roll  on ;  may  this  great  Latter-day  gospel  be  preached  to  all  the 
world,  that  no  man  can  say  that  he  has  not  heard  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens,  and  begun  again  his 
mighty  work  here  upon  the  earth.  My  testimony  is  that  the  gospel 
is  true,  that  the  missionary  work  will  go  forward,  that  mankind  will  be 
warned,  and  that  upon  you  and  me  rests  a  responsibility  to  do  our 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION  47 

part  in  bringing  to  pass  God's  purposes.  May  we  do  our  part  nobly 
and  well,  that  we  may  be  worthy  of  the  choice  blessings  of  our  Father. 
God  bless  you.     Amen. 

The  LeGrand  male  chorus  sang  a  selection  entitled,  "Content." 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

(President  of  the  Central  States  Mission.) 

I  sincerely  trust  that  I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  be 
able  to  say  something  that  will  be  for  our  benefit.  One  of  the  great 
testimonies  that  comes  to  me,  from  time  to  time,  is  the  presence  of 
so  many  people  who  gather  at  the  conferences  of  the  Church  in  this 
city  many  of  whom  come  hundreds  of  miles  to  spend  a  few  hours 
in  meeting,  listen  to  the  truths  that  are  made  plain  by  men  who 
are  appointed  to  speak ;  and  who,  undoubtedly,  make  a  great  sacri- 
fice to  be  present.  Those  of  you  who  live  in  this  immediate  section 
of  the  country,  I  feel  never  understand  fully  what  it  means  for  men 
and  women  to  come  to  conference  from  great  distances.  You  are 
not  put  to  much  expense.  Your  homes  are  here,  which  can  be  reached 
in  a  few  hoitrs  or  a  few  moments.  But  the  fact  that  people  travel  from 
the  northern  end  of  our  country,  and  from  the  south,  and  from  all 
parts,  is  a  wonderful  testimony  to  me ;  and  if  it  were  not  for  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  that  is  found  in  the  hearts  of  men  and  women, 
they  would  not  come.  It  is  the  power  of  our  Father  made  manifest  in 
their  souls,  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  this  gospel  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation,  and  the  inspiration  that  comes  to  them 
as  individuals  prompts  them  to  a  high  sense  of  duty.  And  when  one 
attends  to  his  duty  in  the  highest  sense  of  honor,  he  is  always  happy 
and  in  a.  progressive  state  of  mind,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty is  found  in  him. 

This  comes  through  a  continual  observance  of  the  principles  and 
doctrines  of  Christ,  and  through  a  repentance  daily.  While  much  im- 
provement coukl  be  made  by  all  of  us,  yet  I  believe  that  the  spirit  of 
repentance  is  felt  by  the  majority  of  the  men  and  women  in  this 
Church,  and  as  they  repent,  the  more  the  spirit  of  repentance  comes 
upon  them,  and  they  feel  their  weakness,  and  their  need  of  living  near 
the  Lord,  in  order  to  obtain  the  blessings  that  are  so  necessary  to  last 
them  through  the  day,  or  as  the  days  come  and  go.  Paul,  upon  one 
occasion,  said,  "I  die  daily."  And  that  is  true.  There  were  many 
things  that  he  put  out  of  his  life  daily,  as  all  men  and  women  do  who 
progress  and  grow  in  a  knowledge  of  their  Redeemer.  And  if  there 
ever  was  a  time  when  repentance  needed  to  be  preached  or  practiced 
it  is  at  the  present  time. 

It  takes  a  lifetime  to  repent.  We  hear  of  men  who  repent  at  the 
last  moment  of  time  on  the  earth.     Not  long  ago  the  great  newspapers 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

of  the  country  contained  an  account  of  a  certain  individual  who  had 
lived  a  most  wicked  life;  his  experiences  all  testified  that  he  had  no 
reverence  for  God.  But  just  before  his  death,  his  minister  met  with 
him  in  his  confession,  and  "he  made  peace  with  his  God,"  repented 
of  his  sins.  While  I  have  never  felt  to  criticise  what  was  in  the  heart 
of  that  man,  who  professed  to  be  a  minister  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
the  fact  is  that  millions  of  people  read  an  account  of  this  man's  re- 
penting at  the  last  moment  of  time,  and  I  am  quite  sure  that  thousands 
were  impressed  with  the  idea  that  even  at  the  last  minute  a  man  can 
repent.  Such  a  doctrine  never  came  from  the  Lord.  It  is  not  true, 
because  men  do  not  know  that  they  are  absolutely  relieved  or  pardoned 
for  all  sin  until  they  have  fought  the  fight  which  they  came  into  the 
world  to  fight,  until  they  have  lived,  and  have  made  an  attempt  dur- 
ing their  life  to  overcome.  The  spirit'  of  repentance  must  be  found  in 
the  hearts  of  men  and  women  continually,  and  it  must  be  there  to 
keep  them  not  only  from  the  greater  things  that  are  wrong,  but  the 
lesser  things,  for  it  is  the  little  things  in  life  that  cause  men  and 
women  to  stumble  and  fall.  A  man  walking  along  does  not  fall  over 
great  objects,  he  goes  around  them;  but  the  little  things,  even  the 
small  stone  or  splinter,  may  upset  him,  and  cause  him  injury.  So  it 
is  with  troubles  in  life.  Men  become  influenced  by  little  things  that 
really  ought  not  to  enter  into  their  hearts,  but  which  do  nevertheless. 
And  people  are  often  led  to  oppose  the  work  of  God  until  they  finally 
find  themselves  outside  the  Church.  Men  do  not  go  wrong  all  at 
once.     It  takes  time. 

And  so  it  is  with  our  duties.  They  cannot  be  accomplished  all 
at  once.  It  takes  time.  For  who  knows  how  strong  he  is  until  he 
has  been  tested  and  tried.  This  whole  life  is  the  time  for  men  to  be 
tested  and  tried.  We  are  away  from  home.  This  is  our  temporary 
abode  only.  We  did  not  have  a  beginning  here.  We  existed  before  we 
came  here,  and  we  lived  and  walked  in  the  presence  of  an  immortal 
Sire  and  Mother,  and  were  there  taught  in  the  principles  of  life  as  re- 
vealed in  this  dispensation  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  ;  and 
as  we  lived  there  we'  were  given  power  to  overcome  when  the  time 
should  arrive  in  which  we  should  be  called  upon  for  our  reserves. 
After  we  had  advanced  in  that  life,  perhaps  as  far  as  we  could,  we 
were  given,  in  accordance  with  our  desire,  the  privilege  of  coming  in- 
to this  world.  And  here  we  are  in  these  bodies  of  flesh  and  bones, 
enjoying  full  faculties  of  mind  with  the  laws  of  God  always  before 
us,  associating  with  men  and  women  of  righteous  desires  and  also 
with  those  of  the  opposite  nature.  We  find  evil  as  well  as  good,  and 
men  and  women  are  swerved  by  the  things  to  which  they  pay  attention ; 
one  is  swerved  one  way,  and  another,  another.  Somethings  that 
would  tempt  me  perhaps  may  not  tempt  you  at  all,  and  vice  versa. 
And  so  the  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  as  we  live  we  grow  daily,  and  if 
we  keep  the  commandents  of  the  Lord  as  well  as  we  can,  we  are  always 
found  in  a  progressive  state,  and  we  are  in  a  measure  able  to  say 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION1  49 

"no"  when  we  ought  to,  and  say  "yes"  when  it  is  right  to  do  so.  But 
it  takes  time  and  study  and  faith  and  work  and  devotion  and  attention 
in  order  to  do  it. 

I  believe  that  men  and  women  ought  to  commit  to  memory,  so 
that  they  would  become  a  part  of  their  lives,  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel as  they  are  given  unto  us  from  time  to  time  in  the  pulpits  of  the 
Church,  and  in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  both  of  these  last  days 
and  of  ancient  times.  I  fully  believe  that  die  Ten  Commandments 
were  not  only  for  ancient  Israel,  but  were  given  as  a  guide  unto  the 
Children  of  Israel  forever,  of  which  we  are  a  part.  That  man  or 
woman  who  becomes  better  acquainted  with  the  laws  of  life  is  less 
likely  to  violate  them.  For  instance,  that  man  who  has  become  fully 
convinced  of  what  it  means  to  violate  the  law  of  chastity,  when  he 
has  been  fully  converted  to  the  fact  that  it  is  wrong  and  contrary  to 
God's  law — when  he  remembers  that  the  Savior  of  the  world  gave  to 
Moses  and  the  Children  of  Israel  this  commandment  which  he  wrote 
with  his  own  finger,  that  it  was  as  their  life  and  their  guide! — that 
man  will  not  be  found  violating  it.  The  man  that  has  learned  in  his 
heart,  "Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery,"  and  who  cherishes  the  law 
and  who  loves  it,  will  not  be  swerved  by  adulterous  men  and  women 
to  crime.  So  you  may  take  any  one  of  the  commandments  that  the 
Lord  has  given,  a  man  will  not  be  found  violating  them  when  he  has 
learned  to  believe  in  and  cherish  them.  The  Sabbath  day  was  a  day 
set  apart  for  men  and  women  to  honor,  whereon  to  rest  from  their 
daily  labors ;  they  were  to  prepare  their  food  in  singleness  of  heart, 
even  the  day  before  if  necessary,  they  were  to  feast  spiritually,  they 
were  to  study,  they  were  to  go  to  church  and  bear  testimony,  and  let 
that  be  a  part  of  their  lives.  Men  and  women  who  do  this  will  al- 
ways be  found  much  richer  and  better  in  a  spiritual  way,  they  will  be 
more  firm  in  the  faith,  and  more  fully  established  in  the  gospel  of 
Christ  and  also  in  the  things  of  this  world,  than  those  who  do  not. 
These  laws  are  given,  they  are  within  our  reach.  They  are  testified 
of  continually  by  men  and  women  in  every  part  of  the  Church,  the 
bearing  of  which  testimonies  brings  the  inspiration  of  God. 

We  make  a  great  sacrifice,  we  think,  as  missionaries.  It  is  true 
that  the  man  or  woman  who  sends  a  son  or  daughter  into  the  world 
does  make  a  sacrifice  in  more  ways  than  one.  The  money  they  pay 
out  for  them  is  indeed  a  sacrifice;  but  if  it  were  not  for  that  sacrifice 
there  would  not  be  the  blessings.  For  there  is  a  great  bless- 
ing which  comes  to  the  individual  who  answers  this  call,  even  one 
that  is  not  to  be  measured.  I  have  seen  men  grow  so  in  missionary 
work  that  you  would  not  think  them  to  be  the  same  individuals  as  be- 
fore. As  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  said,  some  men  were  called 
before  the  world  was,  called  while  still  they  were  in  the  prior  estate, 
and  given  this  privilege,  to  be  ordained  and  to  go  into  the  world  as 
missionaries  at  certain  times,  and  each  one  who  goes  and  fills  a  mis- 
sion is   fulfilling  the  blessing  that  was  there  pronounced  upon  him. 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Further  than  that,  it  is  the  duty  of  men  and  women  who  have  learned 
the  truth  and  who  have  become  obligated  to  the  Lord  for  the  things 
which  he  has  given  to  them,  to  give  them  unto  others,  and  in  the  fu- 
ture I  believe  there  will  be  much  room  for  criticism  if  we  fail  to 
do  our  duty.  Opportunities  come  to  all  men,  and  that  man  or  woman 
who  makes  the  best  of  life  is  the  man  or  woman  who  succeeds.  I  tell 
you,  it  is  wonderful  to  find  men  and  women  who  have  had  the  power 
to  resist  evil  and  to  stand  for  the  right.  It  only  proves  that  God  is 
no  respecter  of  persons ;  but  in  every  country  and  clime  men  who  re- 
spect the  Lord  are  given  power  to  overcome,  and  when  they  have 
overcome,  and  they  have  substantially  proved  that  they  have  overcome, 
they  are  not  tempted,  but  they  are  blest  and  revered  and  given  priv- 
ileges that  men  never  know  who  have  not  had  that  experience. 

So  I  say,  in  conclusion,  that  the  spirit  and  testimony  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  in  the  earth ;  it  is  borne  by  the  thousands  of  men  and  women 
who  live  upon  the  earth,  men  and  women  who  are  in  this  congregation 
and  others  coming  from  all  parts  of  the  country,  who  are  working  to- 
day, testifying  to  all  men  that  there  is  a  spirit  and  a  vitality  in  Mor- 
monism  that  cannot  be  found  in  all  the  world.  And  this  spirit  will 
lead  men  to  repent.  That  is  the  great  key-note  that  was  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  men  must  repent  and  prove 
themselves  to  the  Lord,  and  honor  him  and  keep  his  commandments. 
It  takes  time,  and  cannot  be  done  at  the  last  moment  before  the  death 
of  any  individual,  no  matter  what  men  may  preach  or  declare.  Such 
doctrine  never  came  from  the  Lord,  nor  is  it  reasonable  or  true.  The 
spirit  of  testimony  is  what  brings  about  the  spirit  of  repentance,  and 
correct  living  only  clinches  it  and  proves  it  to  be  true ;  and  when  men 
find  out  this  truth  it  enables  them  to  do  what  they  were  intended  to 
do. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  that  we  may  not  be  swerved  by  fear  or 
by  things  that  may  be  wrong,  great  or  small,  but  may  so  live  that  we 
may  correct  things  that  go  wrong  and  set  men  and  women  straight, 
and  at  the  same  time  set  ourselves  straight ;  that  we  may  have  the 
testimony  of  Jesus,  and  may  be  able  to  declare  and  know  that.  Joseph 
Smith  was  called  to  be  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  that  he  was  selected  to 
be  a  leader  of  men  that  he,  indeed,  received  a  visitation  from  the 
Father  and  the  Son,  that  he  heard  them  and  saw  them,  and  that  he 
died  for  his  testimony.  May  we  live  according  to  the  truth  that  the 
Lord  has  revealed,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

Enid  Orlob  and  Bessie  Newman  sang  a  duet  entitled,  "I  waited 
for  the  Lord." 

ELDER  J.  N.  LAMBERT 

(Associated  with  the  Bureau  of  Information.) 
I  am  happy  to  add  my  testimony  to  those  already  borne  in  your 
hearing  this  morning,  by  those  who  have  preceded  me,   for  I   have 
a  testimony  that  this  work  is  the  work  of  the  Lord. 


ELDER  JAMES  N.  LAMBERT  51 

While  President  Winslow  F.  Smith  was  speaking,  and  remind- 
ing us  that  something  over  one  hundred  years  had  elapsed  since  the 
Prophet  Joseph  received  his  manifestation  in  the  visit  of  the  Facher 
and  the  Son,  my  mind  ran  back  to  what  has  been  accomplished  since 
our  people  reached  these  valleys.  It  was  my  privilege,  some  years 
ago,  to  go  back  and  visit  a  number  of  places  where  the  Saints  former- 
ly lived,  in  Missouri,  Illinois,  Ohio,  New  York  and  Vermont.  Previ- 
ous to  this  visit,  I  had  indulged  somewhat  in  a  feeling  not  altogether 
wholesome  toward  the  people  of  Illinois.  My  grand-parents  with 
other  Saints  had  been  driven  from  that  state,  and  I  felt  they  had 
not  had  justice,  and  that  if  the  time  ever  came,  perhaps,  that  I  could 
do  something  to  the  people  who  lived  there  for  the  treatment  they 
had  given  to  my  grand-parents,  I  would  have  been  happy  in  do- 
ing so ;  but  the  visit  I  made  took  that  unholy  feeling  out  of  me.  When 
I  visited  Nauvoo,  and  thought  of  what  it  had  been  at  one  time,  with 
a  population  of  upward  of  twenty  thousand  people,  with  a  hum  of 
industry  on  every  hand,  and  to  see  what  it  was  then,  with  but  a  few 
over  a  thousand  souls,  and  more  like  a  country  village,  I  could 
not  help  but  think  the  Lord  had  withheld  his  blessings  from  that 
people  and  from  that  land,  and  I  came  back  with  a  different  kind  of 
spirit  from  that  which  I  had  when  I  left  home. 

I  then  thanked  the  Lord  that  my  grand-parents,  with  the  other 
Saints,  had  been  driven  out  from  that  place,  and  that  they  had  found 
a  better  place  to  live  in.  I  then  appreciated  more  than  ever  before 
the  inspired  words  of  Brigham  Young,  when  he  said  upon  arriving  in 
this  valley,  "This  is  the  place."  There  was  no  mistake  made  on  the 
part  of  the  Lord  in  bringing  our  people  to  this  land.  Great  as  is  the 
state  of  Illinois,  with  its  wonderful  acres  and  their  great  production, 
I  believe  that  within  the  confines  of  this  commonwealth,  together 
with  the  state  of  Idaho  and  other  surrounding  states  in  which  our 
people  are  now  living,  there  are  far  greater  and  better  conditions 
of  productiveness,  reserved  by  the  Lord  for  the  people  who  are  now 
living  here,  than  ever  could  have  been  found  in  Illinois. 

The  Lord  did  not  make  a  mistake  in  leading  President  Young 
and  our  people  here,  in  the  year  1847,  notwithstanding,  that  such  men 
as  Col.  Bridger  and  others  tried  to  persuade  them  that  this  was  not 
a  fit  place  of  habitation  for  men,  that  crops  could  not  be  matured 
here,  and  suggested  that  we  need  not  attempt  to  make  a  home  here. 
That  has  all  been  set  at  naugh  by  what  has  been  accomplished  by  those 
who  settled  here.  Compare  the  wisdom  of  such  advice  as  that  of  Col. 
Bridger,  to  the  inspiration  of  President  Young.  No  doubt  in  his  pro- 
phetic eye  he  could  see  what  our  people  would  some  day  accomplish. 

We  have  people  coming  here  as  tourists,  to  this  block,  who  come 
here,  you  might  say,  to  scoff,  and  literally  remain  to  pray;  people 
who  have  no  idea,  no  desire  even  to  affiliate  with  us,  or  to  indulge  in 
the  faith  that  is  so  dear  to  us,  and  yet  after  being  told  the  story  of 
"Mormonism,"  and  what  has  been  accomplished  by  our  people,  and 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

seeing  it  for  themselves,  have  gone  away  and  marveled  at  what  we 
have  done. 

I  remember  President  Roosevelt  coming  here  in  the  year  1903 ; 
when  over  in  the  tabernacle  he  said,  "I  pay  my  respects  to  the  early 
'Mormon'  Pioneers,  who  came  here  to  this  great  American  desert, 
and  made  it  literally  to  blossom  as  the  rose." 

You  remember  when  President  Brigham  Young  came  here  and 
said,  "We  will  settle  here,"  that  there  were  some  in  that  first  com- 
pany who  thought  a  mistake  had  been  made.  They  had  seen  other 
spots  that  were  more  inviting  to  the  eye,  than  what  presented  itself 
when  they  first  saw  this  valley ;  thev  were  willing  to  take  chances  on 
what  lay  between  here  and  the  Pacific  ocean,  and  so  expressed  them- 
selves, but  President  Young,  said,  "This  is  the  place ;"  and  when 
reminded  that  this  was  a  desert,  said,  "We  will  make  it  blossom  like 
a  rose."  Years  afterwards  President  Roosevelt,  holding  the  highest 
position  in  the  gift  of  the  people  of  this  great  country,  the  United 
States,  gave  testimony  of  the  wonderful  wisdom  and  prophetic  ut- 
terance of  President  Brigham  Young.  Surely  the  Lord  made  no 
mistake  in  leading  us  here. 

The  Lord  established  his  Church  and  kingdom  here  upon  the 
earth  for  a  purpose.  We  have  been  privileged  to  become  members  of 
the  same,  and  ought  to  appreciate  our  standing  and  membership  in 
the  Church.  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  really  do  appreciate  such  a 
blessing.  If  not,  and  we  need  to  repent  or  adjust  ourselves  so  that 
we  can  more  fully  appreciate  our  standing,  we  should  do  so. 

If  we  are  not  in  harmony  with  the  commandments  of  God,  if  we 
cannot  purge  from  our  beings  whatever  is  unholy,  whatever  is  not 
consistent  with  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord,  and  live  consistently 
with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  which  will  lead  into  all  truth,  then  we 
are  not  Saints  in  very  deed. 

On  the  other  hand,  if  we  can  order  and  so  conduct  our  lives 
as  to  conform  to  the  requirements  of  the  Lord,  keeping  the  com- 
mandments and  laws  of  the  gospel,  our  influence  and  power  can- 
not be  measured.  Such  unity  cannot  be  hidden.  Do  you  not  think, 
then,  that  our  influence  will  be  felt  all  over  the  earth?  Whv  cer- 
tainly. Ask  these  mission  presidents,  who  are  sitting  here,  and  who 
can  testify  of  what  they  hear  men  say  about  the  work  being  done  in 
a  missionary  way  by  the  Bureau  of  Information.  They  can  tell  you 
of  hearing  men  say  how  they  have  been  impressed  with  what  thev 
have  seen  and  heard  while  here,  and  they  have  gone  away  to  tell 
it  to  their  friends,  and  to  urge  them  to  come  and  see  for  themselves. 

The  positive  stand  that  we  have  taken  as  a  people  on  education, 
morality,  clean  living,  and  other  things  that  have  put  us  in  a  class 
by  ourselves,  is  now  being  brought  to  the  attention  of  the  world,  and 
people  are  beginning  to  better,  appreciate  us.  Our  stand  on  these 
thing's  ought  to  be  of  a  most  positive  kind,  however. 

I  remember  a  man  I  knew,  when  I  was  a  little  boy.  I  was  im- 


ELDER  JAMES  N.  LAMBERT  53 

pressed  with  his  goodness,  and  I  remarked  to  my  father,  "Brother 
So-and-so,  is  a  pretty  good  man,  isn't  he?"*  and  my  father  said,  "Yes; 
but  what  is  he  good  for?"  And  then  he  went  on  to  impress  me  that 
we  must  be  good  for  something,  not  good  for  nothing.  As  I  look 
back  now,  I  cannot  remember  anything  that  this  m;an  did  that  was 
positively  good.  Now  we  want  to  be  good  for  something.  We  want  to 
be  positively  good,  not  negatively  good.  We  want  to  be  so  good  that 
other  people  will  appreciate  us ;  for  we  are  told  that  the  time  will 
come  when  people  will  know  us  as  w.e  are  known,  when  they  will 
know  us  as  we  should  be  known.  And  yet,  I  almost  fear  the  time 
when  all  people  will  begin  to  say  good  things  about  us. 

I  remember  the  admonition  of  the  Savior,  when  he  said  that, 
we  should  take  care  when  a  time  like  that  should  arise,  and  that  we 
should  rejoice  and  be  exceedingly  glad  when  people  would  speak  evil 
against  us,  falsely.  But  beware  when  people  begin  to  prate  about  our 
good  points.  I  believe,  however,  that  the  time  is  past,  long  since,  when 
people  want  to  believe  something  that  is  not  true.  I  believe  the  time 
is  past  when  people  should  ask,  "Am  I  my  brother's  keeper?"  Now 
they  are  wont  to  say,  "I  am  my  brother's  keeper." 

The  movement  that  has  grown  up  among  the  Rotary,  Progressive, 
and  other  clubs,  that  we  are  brothers,  the  Big  Brother  and  the  Big 
Sister  idea,  and  which  has  spread  to  nearly  all  parts  of  the  world, 
is  a  sign  that  the  people  of  the  world  are  looking  out  for  one  another 
rather  than,  as  it  has  been  in  the  past,  each  for  himself. 

My  testimony  to  you  is  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  helm  and  will  guide 
us  through  trouble  and  storm.  He  is  not  going  to  desert  his  people. 
My  testimony  is  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet ;  that  his  legal  suc- 
cessors have  been  prophets.  Brigham  Young,  John  Taylor,  Wilford 
Woodruff,  Lorenzo  Snow,  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  Heber  J.  Grant,  have 
been  sent  by  the  Almighty  for  a  purpose ;  the  Lord  has  blessed  them 
with  prophetic  vision,  and  with  the  power  to  discern  and  tell  the  peo- 
ple the  things  that  they  should  know.  He  has  given  to  this  people  a 
mouthpiece,  that  we  may  know  when  to  go  and  where  to  go,  when  to 
do  and  when  not  to  do  things;  that  if  we  find  we  are  not  doing  the 
things  we  should  do,  that  we  should  repent,  and  repent  sincerely ;  that 
we  should  get  in  line  and  remain  in  line,  not  set  up  our  judgment 
against  our  leaders,  or  against  the  rule  or  direction  of  the  Church. 

There  have  been  men,  I  regret  to  say,  who  have  had  the  audacity 
to  say  that  tbey  have  known  certain  things  to  be  the  mind  of  the 
Lord,  when  they  have  not  been  in  accord  with  the  Church.  I  can- 
not think  that  such  a  man  is  going  to  be  prospered,  or  is  going 
to_  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  be  with  him.  The  Lord  may  be 
with  him.  The  Lord  may  be  long-suffering  and  patient,  considering 
that  such  a  man  might  see  the  error  of  his  way  and  repent;  but  in  the 
long  run  that  man,  unless  he  repents,  is  going  to  fall  The  Spirit  oi 
the  Lord  will  not  always  strive  with  man,  and  oh,  what  darkness 
when  he  is  left  dependent  on  himself 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

This  morning,  I  stood  at  the  tabernacle  door.  A  man  came  along. 
I  asked  him,  "What  is  your  position  in  the  Church?"  I  knew  the 
man,  and  I  knew  he  had  been  doing  some  things  that  I  did  not  think 
would  entitle  him  to  come  to  a  certain  place  that  had  been  reserved 
tor  those  holding  certain  positions  in  the  Priesthood,  'Ie  said,  "I 
am  an  old  man,  and  for  the  first  time  in  my  life  I  am  without  a  posi- 
tion." Just  think  of  it,  after  a  man  is'  almost  ready  to  go  down  into 
his  grave,  he  is  stripped  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Almighty,  and  he 
is  without  a  position  in  the  Priesthood,  in  the  Church  of  God !  Do 
you  want  to  be  in  a  position  that  will  compel  you  to  make  such  a  con- 
fession as  that?  God  grant  that  the  time  will  never  come  when  anv 
of  us  will  have  to  give  such  an  answer. 

May  the  Lord  ever  bless  and  assist  us  in  our  faith ;  may  he  en- 
courage us  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  that  we  may  be 
able  to  hold  fast  to  the  Iron  Rod,  which  will  bring  us  back  into  his 
presence,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

(President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission.) 

I  humbly  pray  that  I  may  speak  under  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  for  only  by  that  power  can  the  servants  of  God  reach  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men.  The  missionaries  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  in  preaching  the  everlasting  gos- 
pel, have  this  thought  in  their  hearts,  which  they  express  in  their  testi- 
monies and  in  their  discourses ;  namely,  "Friend,  go  up  higher,"  for 
that  is  the  effect  of  the  gospel,  in  the  lives  of  men.  It  lifts  them  up 
higher,  for  it  is  the  "power  of  God  unto  salvation."  The  Latter-day 
Saints  are  blessed  with  gospel  ideals.  We  are  a  people  with  ideals. 
Jesus  said,  "Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world,"  and  he  also  said,  "For  I 
say  unto  you,  That  except  your  righteousness  shall  exceed  the  right- 
eousness of  the  scribes  and  Pharisees,  ye  shall  in  no  case  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  heaven."  And  by  obedience  to  the  gospel  teachings 
we  desire  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world ;  we  are  a  light  unto  the  world ; 
and  we  are,  in  a  measure,  at  least,  letting  "our  light  so  shine  before 
men,  that  they  may  see  our  good  works,  and  glorify  our  Father  which 
is  in  heaven." 

We  believe  in  the  gift  of  healing;  we  cherish  that  as  one  of  the 
most  precious  blessings  that  our  Father  has  given  to  his  children  in 
the  household  of  faith.  James  says,  in  the  5th  chapter  of  his  epistle: 
"Is  any  sick  among  you?  let  him  call  for  the  elders  of  the  Church: 
and  let  them  pray  over  him,  anointing  him  with  oil  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord;  And  the  prayer  of  faith  shall  save  the  sick."  You  and  I 
bear  testimony,  that  the  power  of  the  Father  is  in  this  Church,  and 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS  55 

our  loved  ones  who  are  afflicted  are.  raised  up  by  his  power,  to  his 
glory  and  to  the  magnifying  of  his  holy  name. 

A  few  weeks  ago,  in  the  city  of  Atlanta,  the  Episcopal  Church  or- 
ganized an  association,  the  purpose  of  which  is  "to  visit  the  sick  and 
pray  over  them;"  and  the  dean  of  that  church,  in  a  sermon,  declared 
that  the  gift  of  healing  was  once  a  gift  in  the  church,  that  the  Re- 
deemer and  his  apostles  preached  it  and  practiced  it,  and  he  said,  "we 
must  restore  it."  The  clean  continued,  "the  religion  that  does  not  care 
for  a  man's  body  as  well  as  his  soul  is  a  ghastly  joke."  Is  not  this 
a  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  restorer  of  the  ancient  faith? 
And  it  was  restored  in  God's  way.  John,  the  apostle,  said:  "And  I 
saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  na- 
tion, and  kindred  and  tongue  and  people,  saying  with  a  loud  voice, 
Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him  for  the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come." 
That  is  the  way  the  gospel  was  restored,  by  a  holy  angel,  in  accord- 
ance with  the  mind  and  will  of  the  Creator.  Did  not  Paul  say,  "For 
I  neither  received  it  [the  gospel]  of  man,  neither  was  I  taught  it  but 
by  the  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ."  And  by  the  revelation  of  the 
Redeemer,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received  this  gospel.  By  the 
power  of  the  Highest  he  restored  it  to  the  children  of  men. 

No  man  could  have  restored  this  gospel.  It  is  a  heavenly  gift ; 
it  came  from  heaven,  and  you  and  I  bear  testimony  that,  from  the 
courts  of  glory  this  plan  of  life  and  salvation  did  come. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  expressing  their  love  for  the  gospel 
in  service.  There  are  thousands  of  men  and  women  in  this  Church 
who  are  not  on  the  "firing  line,"  in  the  mission  field,  but  who  never- 
theless are  doing  a  splendid  work.  "Peace  hath  her  victories  no  less 
renowned  than  war." 

In  this  assembly  hall,  a  few  months  ago,  I  was  talking  to  a  good 
sister  who  has  a  son  on  a  mission  in  the  Southern  States.  I  said, 
"how  many  children  have  you?"  "Seventeen,"  she  replied,  "but  we 
have  never  been  blessed  with  any  children  of  our  own."  I  said,  "Sister, 
will  you  please  make  this  more  clear  to  me,  and  this  is  the  substance 
of  that  good  woman's  reply :  "We  have  never  had  any  children  of  our 
own.  We  took  four  babies,  three  girls  and  one  boy,  when  they  were 
twenty-four  hours  old  to  six  days  old,  adopted  and  reared  them.  The 
boy  filled  a  mission.  We  reared  a  little  girl  of  seven;  she  is  adopted 
to  us.  She  has  filled  a  mission.  We  emigrated  from  Germany  two 
boys  and  their  sister.  The  boy  stayed  with  us  ten  years,  the  girl  un- 
til she  was  married.  One  of  the  boys  filled  a  mission;  we  helped  him 
to  fill  it.  For  five  years  we  cared  for  three  little  boys  whose  ages 
ranged  from  4  to  7  years.  We  took  two  boys,  one  was  7,  the  other 
8;  they  stayed  with  us  nine  years.  One  of  them  served  in  the  war. 
We  have  four  orphans  now  at  our  home,  two  girls  12  to  15  years  old, 
two  boys,  one  13,  the  other  10.     I  took  the  ten-year  old  boy  when  he 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

was  a  year  old.  W,e  have  emigrated  15  children  from  the  old  country. 
For  sveral  years  we  have  kept  three  children,  from  Switzerland.  We 
don't  want  to  stop  the  good  work  of  taking  orphans  to  bring  up." 
There  is  a  story  of  service.  This  woman's  name  may  not  be  written 
in  the  book  of  fame,  kept  by  mortal  man,  but  in  heaven  angels  have 
recorded  her  name.  She  is  among  those  who  are  saving  souls,  who 
are  helping  young  people  to  find  their  way  through  the  temptations 
and  tribulations  of  life  into  the  salvation  that  God  our  heavenly 
Father  hath  in  store  for  them. 

Two  weeks  ago,  I  was  holding  conference  in  Mississippi,  not  far 
from  New  Orleans.  We  had  no  church  to  meet  in,  so  we  met  in 
the  shade  of  the  trees,  because  it  is  warm  in  that  climate,  about  this 
time  of  the  year.  Why  did  we  meet  in  the  open  air?  Because  in  that 
settlement  mobocrats  have  burned  down  two  of  our  churches.  But 
some  of  the  very  men  who  instigated  this  outrage,  and  who  assisted 
in  the  destruction  of  our  humble  places  of  worship  have  asked  to  be 
allowed  to  donate  toward  the  building  of  another  house,  in  which 
the  Latter-day  Saints  there  may  meet  for  the  worship  of  God.  God 
has  softened  the  hearts  of  the  people.  Your  sons  and  your  daughters 
are  preaching  the  gospel  in  the  power  of  the  spirit  of  testimony,  for 
only  in  the  spirit  of  testimony  can  this  gospel  be  preached  in  a  manner 
to  reach  the  hearts  of  the  people.  Day  unto  day  brings  forth  testi- 
mony, that  this  gospel  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  day  unto  day  brings 
forth  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  God,  the 
instrument  in  the  hands  of  Deity  to  establish  this  glorious  work  which 
bids  men  to  go  higher  up,  lifts  men  up,  which  purifies  their  nature 
through  the  spirit  of  repentance,  by  the  gift  of  repentance,  from  evil 
and  wrong  doing. 

And  now,  with  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with  my  brethren 
who  have  preceded  me  this  morning,  I  bear  my  testimony  that  the 
Redeemer  lives,  and  that  he  shall  stand  upon  the  earth  in  the  latter- 
day;  that  he  will  come  in  glory  to  reign  on  earth  with  his  Saints  a 
thousand  years.  And  I  bear  my  humble  testimony  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  has  been  brought  forth  to  testify,  among  other  things, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  he  was  resurrected,  and  that  all  men 
will  be  resurrected. 

I  also  bear  you  my  testimony  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is 
a  servant  of  the  Lord,  his  mouthpiece  to  his  people,  a  man  of  honor, 
a  man  in  whom  we  can  depend,  for  he  is  led  by  the  Spirit  and  power 
of  God.  This  testimony  I  fearlessly  bear,  for  I  know  that  these  things 
are  true.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang,  "O  worship  him." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Parley  Bennion. 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  I  VERS  ON  57 


SECOND  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was  held  outdoors,  near  the  Bureau  of 
Information,  at  10  o'clock,  Sunday  morning,  April  3,  1921. 

Elder  John  M.  Knight,  President  of  the  Western  States  Mission, 
presided,  and  called  the  congregation  to  order. 

Singing  was  furnished  by  the  congregation  under  the  direction  of 
Elder  C.  S.  Martin.  The  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God, 
for  a  prophet." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Bishop  A.  T.  Shurtliff,  of  Wandamere 
ward,  Granite  stake. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ve  Saints  of 
the  Lord." 

ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission.) 

I  rejoice,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in  the  opportunity  of  meeting 
again  in  conference  with  the  Saints  of  the  Lord.  To  me  there  is  noth- 
ing sweeter  than  "communion  with  Saints."  I  rejoice  in  the  spirit  of 
the  great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  am  reminded  that  just 
a  little  more  than  two  years  ago  I  received  a  letter  over  the  signature 
of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  wherein  was  contained  the  information 
that  I  had  been  selected  to  preside  over  the  Northwestern  States  Mis- 
sion ;  also  these  inspiring  words,  the  spirit  of  which  is  in  my  soul,  and 
I  thank  the  Lord  therefor,  and  trust  that  this  spirit  shall  never  be- 
come dim,  but  every  hour  be  brighter  and  brighter,  so  long  as,  life  shall 
last: 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God;  for,  be- 
hold, the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  wherefore  he 
suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come  unto  him. 
And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
hin.'.,  on  conditions  of  repentance;  and  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that 
repenteth.  Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people; 
an  :  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance  un- 
to this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  he  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be 
your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father?  And  now,  if  your  joy 
will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought  unto  me  into  the  kingdom 
of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you  should  bring  many  souls 
unto  me?" 

Another  revelation  of  the  Lord,  containing  the  same  spirit  and 
sentiment  was  given  to  John  Whitmer,  through  Joseph,  the  Seer,  in 
Fayette,  Seneca  county,  New  York,  June,  1829 : 

"Hearken,  my  servant  John,  and  listen  to  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ, 
your  Lord  and  your  Redeemer,  for  behold,  I  speak  unto  you  with  sharp- 
ness and  with  power,  for  mine  arm  is  over  all  the  earth,  and  I  will  tell  you 


58  '  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

that  which  no  man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee  alone,  for  many  times  you 
have  desired  of  me  to  know  that  which  would  be  of  the  most  worth  unto 
you.  Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this  thin^,  and  for  speaking  my  words 
which  I  have  given  you  according  to  my  commandments.  And  now,  be- 
hold, I  say  unto  you,  that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most  worth  unto 
you,  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people,  that  you  may  bring 
souls  unto  me,  that  you  may  rest  with  them  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father. 
Amen." 

No  greater  work  was  ever  entrusted  to  men  than  to  cry  repentance, 
and  labor  for  the  salvation  of  souls  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  Upon 
me  as  an  individual,  a  preacher  of  repentance,  lies  the  responsibility 
of  directing  the  labors  of  180  missionaries,  among  them  the  sweetest 
and  most  beautiful  young  men  and  young  women  in  all  the  world ;  and 
I  assure  you  that  keenly  do  I  sense  it,  and  sincerely  do  I  pray  that  the 
spirit  of  this  calling — important  above  all  others  that  come  to  men  in 
the  world — shall  be  mine.  My  great  task  has  been  to  know,  as  I 
instruct  those  young  men  and  young  women,  that  which  is  better  than 
any  other  thing,  to  posses ;  that  more  than  all  else  which  will  qualify 
them  to  make  of  them  efficient  servants  and  preachers  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  In  Paul's  instructions  to  the  Corinthian  Saints,  declar- 
ing his  own  power  and  the  source  thereof,  he  recognized  that  it  was 
not  in  his  profound  learning  (for  he  sat  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel;  and 
among  the  philosophers  and  learned  men  of  his  day  he  stood  fore- 
most), but  from  some  other  Power,  the  source  of  which  he  has  in- 
dicated most  unmistakably  in  his  Epistle  to  the  Corinthians,  from  which 
I  desire  to  read  a  few  words. 

In  II  Corinthians,  12,  he  speaks  of  the  wonderful  manifestations 
of  God,  the  revelation  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  appeared  to  him  while  on 
the  way  to  Damascus,  to  bring  bound  the  Saints  that  he  was  persecuting. 
The  Lord  said,  "Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?"  and  in  answer 
Paul  said,  "Who  art  thou,  Lord?"  and  the  Lord  said,  "I  am  Jesus 
whom  thou  persecutest ;"  and  Paul  replied,  "Lord,  what  wilt  thou  have 
me  to  do?"  In  this  wonderful  revelation  he  was  caught  up  into  the 
third  heaven  where  he  beheld  indescribable  glories  and  heard  things 
which  he  said  were  not  meet  for  men  to  utter;  yet  he  affirmed  that 
not  upon  these  did  he  depend  for  the  strength  of  his  testimony  and  the 
power  of  his  ministry,  for,  said  he : 

"And  lest  I  should  be  exalted  above  measure  through  the  abundance 
of  the  revelations,  there  was  given  to  me  a  thorn  in  the  flesh,  the  messenger 
of  Satan  to  buffet  me,  lest  I  should  be  exalted  above  measure.  For  this 
thii..g  I  besought  the  Lord  thrice,  that  it  might  depart  from  me.  And  he 
said  unto  me,  My  grace  is  sufficient  for  thee:  for  my  strength  is  made  per- 
fect in  weakness." 

The  Lord  would  have  Paul  know  that  in  the  humility  of  his  heart, 
the  sincerity  of  his  soul,  and  in  the  recognition  of  God,  lay  the  source 
of  his  power,  wherein  he  should  find  great  strength,  and  not  in  the 
wisdom  of  man.  This  was  also  indicated  in  a  previous  declaration  to 
the  Corinthian  Saints,  wherein  Paul  said : 


ELDER  HEBER  C.  IVERSON  59 

"And  I,  brethren,  when  I  came  to  you,  came  not  with  excellency  of 
speech  or  of  wisdom,  declaring  unto  you  the  testimony  of  God.  For  I 
determined  not  to  know  anything  among  you,  save  Jesus  Christ,  and  him 
crucified.  And  I  was  with  you  in  weakness,  and  in  fear,  and  in  much 
trembling.  And  my  speech  and  my  preaching  was  not  wjith  enticing  words 
of  man's  wisdom,  but  in  demonstration  of  the  Spirit  and  of  power:  that 
your  faith  should  not  stand  in  the  wisdom  of  men,  but  in  the  power  of 
God." 

When  I  read  these  words,  I  think  of  that  most  wonderful  and 
successful  of  all  converters  of  souls  in  this  latter  dispensation — aye, 
I  believe  of  any  dispensation  of  the  gospel  of  Jesps  Christ,  the  humble, 
unlearned  Wilford  Woodruff,  who  taught,  converted  and  baptized  by 
the  power  of  God,  nigh  unto  two  thousand  souls — a  record,  I  believe, 
that  is  not  equalled  by  any  other  servant  of  the  Lord  in  any  age  of  the 
world.  This  he1  accomplished,  not  with  the  wisdom  of  man  or  the 
philosophy  of  the  sage,  but  by  the  power  and  Spirit  of  Almighty  God, 
which  possessed  his  innocent  and  humble  soul.  Continuing,  Paul  de- 
clared : 

"But  we  speak  the  wisdom  of  God  in  a  mystery,  even  the  hidden  wis- 
dom, which  God  ordained  before  the  world  unto  our  glory:  which  none  of 
the  princes  of  this  world  knew:  for  had  they  known  it,  they  would  not 
have  crucified  the  Lord  of  glory." 

(And  they  who  crucified  the  Lord  of  glory  were  not  the  ignorant 
men  of  the  world ;  they  were  those  who  stood  in  high  places  and  occu- 
pied'positions  in  the  courts  of  kings  and  royalty;  they  were  the  learned 
men  of  the  world  who  crucified  the  Lord  of  glory.)  Paul  further 
says: 

"But  as  it  is  written,  Eye  hath  not  seen  nor  ear  ,heard,  neither  have 
entered  into  the  heart  of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them 
that  love  him.  But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit:  for  the 
Spirit  searcheth  all  things,  yea,  the  de.ep  things  of  God.  For  what  man 
knoweth  the  things  of  a  man  save  the  spirit  of  man  which  is  in  him?  even 
so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God. 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the  spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  spirit  which 
is  .of  God;  that  we  might  know  the  things  that  are  freely  given  to  us  of 
God.  Which  things  also  we  speak,  not  in  the  words  which  man's  wisdom 
teacheth,  but  which  the  Holy  Ghost  teacheth;  comparing  spiritual  things 
with  spiritual.  But  the  natural  man  receiveth  not  the  things  of  the  Spirit 
of  God:  for  they  are  foolishness  unto  him:  neither  can  he  know  them,  be- 
cause they  are  spiritually  discerned.  But  he  that  is  spiritual  judgeth  all 
things,  yet  he  himself  is  judged  of  no  man." 

And  as  I  read  the '12th  and  13th  verses  of  this  chapter,  I  think 
of  another  illustrious  example  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty, 
manifest  in  one  of  his  chosen  servants : 

"Now  we  have  received,  not  the  spirit  of  the  world,  but  the  Spirit 
which  is  of  God;  that  we  might  know  the  things  that  are  freely  given  to  us 
of  God.  Which  things  also  we  speak,  not  in  the  words  which  man's  wis- 
dori  teacheth,  but  which  the  Holy  Ghost  teacheth;  comparing  spiritual 
things  with  spiritual." 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Of  Joseph  F. '  Smith,  our  late  revered  prophet  and  leader,  it  has 
been  said',  by  one  who  speaks  with  understanding  and  from  personal 
knowledge,  that  Prest.  Smith  never  prepared  in  his  life  a  sermon.  This 
man  who  traveled  with  him  in  Europe,  on  the  isles  of  the  sea,  and 
through  the  stakes  of  Zion,  year  after  year,  thousands  upon  thousands 
of  miles,  and  heard  him  deliver  hundreds  and  thousands  of  sermons, 
asserts  that  he  never  heard  Prest.  Smith  deliver  two  sermons  of 
which  it  could  be  said,  "this  sermon  reminds  me  of  another  one  I  heard 
him  deliver."  To  me  that  is  a  marvelous  testimony  to  the  divinity  of 
the  calling  and  inspiration  of  the  man,  for  such  achievement  is  not 
humanly  possible.  Human  intelligence  has  its  limitations.  But  the 
intelligence  and  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  are  infinite ;  and  the  man 
who  is  in  touch  therewith,  inspired  thereby,  has  no  limits,  and  can 
preach  sermons  day  after  day,  year  after  year,  under  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Almighty,  and  never  repeat.  But  when  men  prepare 
their  sermons,  and  by  worldly  wisdom  hope  to  teach  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  glorify  themselves,  then  they  are  not  possessed  of  this 
unlimited,  irresistible  power  which  finds  lodgment  in  the  souls  of  hon- 
est men.  Wherein,  then,  lies  this  wonderful  power?  What  is  the 
character  of  it?  That  is  the  question  that  should  concern  every  mis- 
sion president,  and  every  teacher  of  righteousness,  and  preacher  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  You  remember  what  Paul  says  in  the  13th 
Chapter  of  First  Corinthians : 

"Though  1  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men  and  of  angels,  and  have  not 
love,  I  am  become  as  sounding  brass,  or  a  tinkling  cymbal.  And  though 
I  have  the  gift  of  prophecy,  and  understand  all  mysteries,  and  all  knoiwledge! 
and  though  I  have  all  faith,  so  that  I  could  remove  mountains,  and  have 
not  love,  I  am  nothing." 

In  comparison  with  this  wonderful  power,  charity  or  love — these 
accomplishments  here  mentioned  pale  into  insignificance.  Qualified, 
and  endowed  with  these  rare  gifts  we  naturally  conclude,  one  must  of 
necessity  be  a  most  powerful  preacher;  he  can  speak  with  the  tongues 
of  men  and  the  eloqunce  of  angels ;  he  understands  all  mysteries,  and 
has  all  knowledge  and  faith  so  that  he  could  remove  mountains.  But  he 
lacks  one  thing,  and  that  Js  the  vitalizing  force  which  is  the  secret  of  his 
power.  And  what  is  that?  It  is  that  supreme  love  which  the  Savior 
describes  in  the  following  words : 

"Except  a  man  is  willing  to  leave  father  and  mother,  houses  and  lands, 
wives  and  children,  and  all  for  my  sake  and  the  gospel's,  he  is  unworthy  of 
me." 

It  is  that  love  of  God,  which  overshadows  and  transcends  the  love 
of  everything  else  in  the  world  whether  it  be  personal  glory  and  honor, 
wealth  or  fame.  It  matters  not  what  it  may  be,  there  is  no  love  in 
his  heart  equaling  his  love  of  God.  That  is  the  source  of  his  power; 
and  possessed  of  that,  his  words  are  irrestible,  and  his  power  will  re- 
dound to  the  honor  and  glory  of  God  and  the  salvation  of  his  children 


ELDER  NEPHI  JENSEN  61 

— which  power  may  God  endow  us  with,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  NEPHI JENSEN 

{President  of  the  Canadian  Mission.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters :  I  sincerely  pray  in  my  heart  that  I 
shall  have  strength  of  mind  and  body  to  speak  to  you  a  few  moments 
this  morning.  I  have  found  it  to  be  a  very  taxing  ordeal  to  speak  in 
the  open  air  to  a  large  congregation. 

With  President  Iverson,  who  has  just  spoken  to  you,  I  too  rejoice 
in  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  you  in  this  general  conference  of  the 
Church.  With  all  the  power  of  my  soul  I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation.  There  is  nothing  in  the  realm  of  things  knowable  for  which 
I  an  so  deeply  grateful  as  I  am  for  my  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of 
God's  great  latter-day  work.  I  do  know  that  the  God  of  heaven,  with 
his  own  hands  laid  the  foundation  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  know  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Almighty  has  in- 
spired the  hearts  and  the  minds  of  those  who  have  built  the  super- 
structure of  this  Kingdom  of  our  God.  I  know  that  this  Church  is  en- 
dowed with  the  Priesthood,  the  authority  of  Almighty  God.  I  know 
that  this  Church  is  the  depository  of  the  riches  of  God's  wisdom  and 
his  knowledge. 

I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that  the  great  achievements  of  this 
great  people  are  coming  to  be  known  among  the  children  of  men. 
The  day  is  past  and  gone  when  men  can  speak  evil  of  this  people  and 
escape  rebuke.  There  are  men  and  women  in  every  center  of  popu- 
lation today  who  know  of  the  splendid  achievements  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  These  men  and  women  are  brave  enough  and  true  enough 
to  speak  in  defense  of  the  truest  and  noblest  people  in  this  world. 

I  have  had  occasion  frequently,  in  the  cities  of  eastern  Canada, 
to  tell  the  people  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  inspired  by  the  power  of 
their  noble  religion,  have  established  in  the  world,  the  highest  civ- 
ilization known  to  modern  man.  That  is  a  bold  statement  to  make 
about  a  people,  but  the  statement  is  just  as  true  as  it  is  bold. 

What  is  the  first  essential  to  civilization?  What  is  the  first  es- 
sential to  the  highest  wellbeing  of  humankind?  It  is  good  health 
and  clean  blood.  The  statistics  of  the  United  States  tell  us  that  dur- 
ing the  year  1920,  101  babies  out  of  a  thousand  in  the  United  States 
died  before  they  became  a  year  old.  These  same  statistics  tell  us  that 
in  Utah  only  64  babies  out  of  a  thousand  died  before  they  became 
a  year  old.  What  do  these  figures  mean?  They  mean  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  clean  blood  in  their  veins.  These  figures 
mean  that  Latter-day  Saint  fathers  and  mothers  live  moral  and  whole- 
some lives. 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

What  is  the  next  essential  to  the  highest  civilization?  It  is  the 
common  prosperity.  I  use  the  expression  the  "common  prosperity" 
advisedly,  because  a  people  who  are  partly  rich  and  mainly  poor 
cannot  attain  to  anything  great  in  moral  or  civic  progress.  What  do 
the  facts  show  concerning  the  conmon  prosperity  of  our  people?  On 
the  29th  day  of  January,  1921,  the  Country  Gentleman,  one  of  the 
leading  farmers'  magazines  of  the  United  States,  carried  the  state- 
ment that  Utah  should  be  known  as  the  "home-owner's  state."  And 
this  statement  was  followed  by  the  further  statement  that  out  of 
62,662  farms  in  the  state  of  Utah,  seven-eights  of  them  were  owned 
by  the  men  who  operated  them.  What  do  these  figures  mean?  They 
mean  that  our  people  have  made  the  greatest  progress  in  material 
prosperity  of  any  people  in  the  world. 

What  is  the  next  mark  of  a  highly  civilized  people?  It  is  edu- 
cation. On  the  23rd  day  of  July,  1920,  the  Toronto  Evening  Tele- 
gram, one  of  the  largest  papers  published  in  the  Dominion  of  Canada, 
published  a  statement  quoted  from  Dr.  E.  A.  Winship,  one  of  the 
greatest  educators  in  the  United  States,  in  which  Dr.  Winship  said, 
"No  state  is  within  hailing  distance  of  Utah  in  an  efficient  attempt 
to  solve  the  civic,  industrial,  and  moral  problems  of  the  education  of 
the  youth  from  12  to  18  years."  You  will  notice  that  he  says  that 
no  state  is  within  hailing  distance  of  Utah.  He  does,  not  say  that 
our  state  is  almost  on  a  par  with  other  states  in  education ;  he  tells  us 
that  no  state  ranks  with  us  in  an  efficient  attempt  to  provide  for  the 
education  of  the  youth. 

What  is  the  next  mark  of  a  highly  civilized  people?  The  next 
essential  is  morality.  Theodore  Roosevelt,  that  grand  man,  whose 
name  has  rung  around  the  world,  in  an  article  published  in  Colliers 
Magazine,  in  February,  1911,  said,  "Indeed  among  these  'Mormons' 
the  standard  of  sexual  morality  was  unusually  high;  they  were  better 
than  their  neighbors." 

What  is  the  next  mark  of  a  highly  civilized  people?  It  is  spirit- 
uality— that  quality  of  which  President  Iverson  has  spoken  so  fer- 
vently this  morning.  How  do  the  Latter-day  Saints  rank  in  spirit- 
uality? In  April,  1920,  Colonel  William  Jennings  Bryan  sat  in  the 
great  tabernacle,  over  there  at  one  of  the  sessions  of  that  conference, 
within  three  feet  of  the  mission  presidents,  and  listened  to  the  ser- 
mons of  the  leading  men  of  this  Church.  At  the  conclusion  of  that 
session  of  the  conference,  he  made  an  informal  talk,  in  which  he 
said,  "I  have  never  witnessed  such  religious  fervor  in  all  my  life 
before." 

Here  we  have  a  people  who  have  the  five  leading  marks  of  a 
great  people.  They  are  a  healthy  people,  they  are  a  prosperous  peo- 
ple, an  educated  people,  a  moral  people,  a  spiritual-minded  people. 
I  tell  you,  this  people  is  God's  people.  With  all  my  heart  I  thank 
my  God  for  membership  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  with  all  my  strength  I  pray  for  power  to  do  my  part  in 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT  63 

making  known  to  the  world  the  great  things  which  God  has  wrought 
in  our  day  and  time. 

My  brothers  and  my  sisters,  let  us  remember  our  heritage  of 
power,  of  truth,  our  heritage  of  inspiration  of  faith.  If  we  will  re- 
member these  things,  we  shall  rise  and  shine  and  be  the  glory  of  all 
mankind1 — which  may  God  grant,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

(President  of  the  Mexican  Mission.) 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  be  able  to  make  my- 
self heard,  and  that  I  may  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  be  able  to 
say  something  this  morning  that  will  encourage  us  in  living  our  re- 
ligion. 

It  is  truly  an  inspiring  sight  to  see  this  vast  congregation  gath- 
ered together  here,  and  to  know  that  our  great  Tabernacle  is  filled 
to  overflowing,  and  also  the  Assembly  Hall,  and  that  these  people 
have  gathered  together  for  the  purpose  of  worshiping  the  Lord  and  of 
hearing  his  word.  To  me  it  is  an  evidence  that  there  is  burning  within 
the  hearts  of  this  people  a  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  this  great  latter- 
day  work.  To  me  it  is  an  evidence  that  they  are  desirous  of  growth 
and  development  in  the  Lord's  work,  that  they  desire  to  become  a  bet- 
ter people,  that  they  desire  to  learn  more  of  his  will  and  of  his  pur- 
poses ;  and  I  take  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  with  a  desire 
that  they  might  also  extend  this  great  knowledge  to  our  Father's 
children,  wherever  they  may  be — because  upon  us  devolves  the  re- 
sponsibility of  carrying  the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth  and  to 
people  everywhere. 

As  President  Iverson  was  speaking  this  morning  of  the  great  mis- 
sionary work  being  done,  I  was  reminded  of  the  words  of  the  Savior, 
his  commission  given  unto  his  disciples,  when  he  appeared  unto  them 
after  his  resurrection : 

"And  be  said  unto  them,  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  every  creature.  He  that  believeth  and  lis  baptized  shall  be  saved;  but 
he  that  believeth  not  shall  be  damned." 

It  seems  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  inasmuch  as  this  is 
the  same  gospel,  established  by  our  Savior,  and  that  the  same  author- 
ity held  by  those  unto  whom  he  gave  this  commission  is  held  by  the 
Church  today,  through  its  membership,  that  the  call  is  to  us  today ;  and 
I  say  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have  resting  upon  us 
the  responsibility  to  go  into  all  the  world  and  to  preach  the  gospel  unto 
every  creature,  for  it  is  indeed  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  unto 
all  who  will  believe.  And  how  can  a  man  believe  a  thing  that  he  has 
not  heard  ?  and  how  can  he  hear,  save  someone  be  sent  to  teach  it  unto 
him? 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

The  preachers  have  preached  ever  since  the  Reformation,  but  re- 
ligious thought  throughout  the  world  has  not  been  particularly  im- 
proved. Divisions  have  continued  to  occur.  We  hear  today  the 
thoughts  expressed  of  a  uniting  of  the  religious  world;  but,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  men  cannot  unite  in  the  true  Church  of  God 
if  they  have  it  not.  We  have  been  told  here  this  morning  that  we 
are  perhaps  a  distinct  people,  a  people  better  than  other  people;  I 
want  to  tell  you  the  reason  of  it  is  that  we  have  the  truth,  we  have 
the  gospel,  and  we  have  restored  to  earth  again  the  power  of  God  to 
speak  in  his  name,  and  I  say,  Woe  would  be  unto  us,  if  we  were  not 
different ;  woe  unto  us,  if  we  were  not  distinct,  and  if  our  righteous- 
ness— as  the  Savior  said  to  his  disciples — were  not  better  and  greater 
than  the  righteousness  of  the  scribes  and  Pharisees,  or  the  righteous- 
ness of  the  world,  we  could  not  in  any  way  inherit  the  Kingdom  of 
our  Father  in  heaven. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  represented  here  among  the  speakers  this 
day  are  missionaries  extending  their  labors  and  their  activities  from 
the  provinces  of  Canada  to  the  boundary  line  of  southern  Mexico,  down 
to  Guatemala.  Under  their  direction  are  laboring  hundreds  of  young 
men  who  have  responded  to  this  call.  I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord 
that  I  have  been  counted  worthy  to  he  associated  with  them  and  to 
labor  with  them ;  and,  as  one  who  knows,  because  your  sons  have 
been  under  my  care,  I  want  to  report  to  you  that  your  sons  are  acquit- 
ting themselves  admirably  and  nobly  in  the  mission  field.  They  are 
men  on  the  day  after  they  arrive  there,  although  they  come  into  the 
mission  field  many  of  them  boys  of  18,  19  and  20  years  of  age.  They 
are  told,  when  they  come  into  the  mission  field,  to  be  men,  and  they 
respond,  and  they  seek  for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  to  assist  them  in 
their  labors,  and  they  are  able  (though  not  at  first  from  the  stand- 
point of  the  wisdom  of  the  world,  not  being  educated  in  seminaries  of 
learning  particularly  along  the  lines  of  religious  thought),  by  the 
inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  which  they  enjoy,  and  by  the 
power  of  the  holy  Priesthood  which  they  have,  to  confound  the  wis- 
dom of  the  wise. 

I  recall  just  now  how  our  boys,  in  a  foreign  tongue,  on  the 
streets  of  the  great  city  of  San  Antonio,  many  times  have  been  able 
to  congregate  as  many  people  in  the  streets  as  stand  before  us  here 
today,  telling  their  message  of  salvation  unto  the  people.  And  they 
are  not  left  alone,  but  they  are  heckled  and  they  are  contested  by 
the  preachers  of  the  day — they  are  boys  just  come  from  the  farms 
and  from  the  workshops  and  from  the  vocations  in  life  from  which 
our  boys  go  into  the  mission  field,  but  by  the  power  of  the  Lord,  and 
his  help  and  assistance  that  come  to  them,  they  have  been  able  always 
to  come  off  victorious  in  any  contest  that  they  have  had  in  that  city. 
And  the  same  is  true,  I  am  sure,  wherever  our  boys  go.  You  have 
reason,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  proud  of  them. 

We  know  the  very  great  sacrifices  that  the  fathers  and  mothers 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT  65 

are  making  in  these  times  to  support  their  boys  in  the  mission  field, 
but  I  will  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  could  not  invest 
your  means  to  a  better  advantage  than  by  supporting  them  there,  and 
I  wish  to  bespeak  for  them  your  support  by  way  of  encouragement — 
not  sympathy,  for  the  boys  are  well  off,  they  are  well  taken  care  of, 
the  Lord  is  their  helper  and  he  raises  up  friends  to  them,  and  if  they 
betimes  fast  a  day  or  two,  it  is  only  for  their  good;  they  are  all  in 
good  health,  they  are  in  good  condition,  and  they  do  not  need  your 
sympathy  along  that  line.  What  they  need  is  your  support,  what 
they  need  are  letters  from  home  encouraging  them  to  do  their  part, 
to  give  their  all  to  the  service  of  the  Lord ;  to  remember  this,  that  they 
must  love  him  with  all  their  hearts,  with  all  their  minds,  with  all  their 
might,  and  with  all  their  strength,  and  that  next  to  that  they  must 
love  their  neighbors  as  themselves. 

And  who  are  our  neighbors  in  the  world?  I  say  to  you,  we  are 
all  neighbors,  we  are  all  brethren,  we  are  all  children  of  the  same 
great  heavenly  Father,  and  we  should  manifest  our  love  for  our 
brethren  in  the  world  by  taking  to  them  that  greatest  of  all  gifts,  which 
is  the  gospel,  the  power  of  God,  by  which  they  may  be  saved.  Our 
mission  is  not  particularly  to  any  one  people,  or  to  any  one  race,  but, 
as  I  have  read  to  you  now,  and  as  I  could  read  many  other  passages, 
which  show  you  that  the  gospel  is  to  be  preached  to  all  nations  as 
a  witness,  and  to  every  creature,  everywhere.  The  saving  powers  of 
the  gospel  are  manifest  among  one  people  just  as  much  as  they  are 
manifest  among  another  people,  if  those  people  strive  to  live  in  har- 
mony with  the  gospel  teachings. 

It  has  been  my  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  after  the 
tempestuous  times  that  Mexico  has  passed  through  for  the  past  ten 
years,  and  after  we  have  had  to  withdraw  our  missionaries,  and  our 
brethren,  natives  of  that  land,  have  been  left  for  many  years  almost 
isolated  from  the  Church,  it  has  been  my  privilege,  and  I  thank  the 
Lord  for  it,  to  have  returned  last  month,  with  twelve  of  your  boys, 
and  to  have  picked  up  again  the  broken  threads  of  the  work  in  that 
land ;  and  if  I  could  express  to  you  as  I  felt  it,  and  your  boys  felt  it, 
the  happiness  that  came  to  those  people  upon  our  return,  I  am  sure, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  those  of  you  who  have  sons  among  that 
people  would  be  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  they  are  the  instruments  in 
carrying  such  joy  and  such  happiness  back  to  that  people. 

And  I  would  speak  a  word  in  praise  of  our  brethren  and  sisters 
in  that  far-off  land;  for,  nothwithstanding  the  fact  that  they  have 
been  alone  for  ten  years,  we  found  their  branches  perfectly  manned, 
the  Priesthood  had  been  left  with  them.  That  is  the  thought  I  should 
like  to  leave.  Although  the  missionaries  from  Zion  had  been  with- 
drawn, the  Priesthood  of  the  Lord  had  been  committed  to  those  peo- 
ple, and  their  own  people  had  been  ordained  elders  and  set  apart  as 
branch  presidents,  and  not  for  one  single  day  had  they  forgotten 
their  obligations  to  the  Lord.     They  are  living  their  religion,  they 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

are  teaching  it  to  their  neighbors,  and  many  are  being  brought  into 
the  Church  through  the  efficient  labors  of  our  native  brethren  in  that 
far-off  land,  and  they  are  living  as  near  as  may  be  in  harmony  with 
the  principles  of  the  gospel. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  intergity  of  those  people.  I 
would  just  like  to  quote  to  you  what  one  of  our  native  brethren  said 
in  a  fast  meeting,  not  long  ago,  in  El  Paso.  He  was  a  young  man 
who  served  as  a  missionary  there  some  ten  years  ago,  a  very  efficient 
missionary,  too,  and  someone  was  saying  how  bad  it  was  that  we 
had  all  been  called  away  from  the  mission  down  there,  and  that  per- 
haps things  would  go  badly  because  the  elders  from  Zion  were  not 
there.  He  said,  "I  thank  the  Lord  that  the  Priesthood  has  been 
given  to  my  people,  and  that  that  Priesthood  will  never  again  be  taken 
away  from  them  ;  and  with  that  Priesthood,  men  will  be  raised  up 
among  them  to  carry  on  the  work."  And  I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  we  have  seen  a  demonstration  of  the  truthfulness  of 
the  testimony  of  that  young  man  concerning  the  Priesthood,  as  it  is 
operating  among  the  people  of  Mexico. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  Lord  for  the  integrity  of  those  people.  I 
went  into  the  mission  field  as  a  very  young  man,  and  I  have  been  in 
the  missionary,  field  ever  since.  I  am  not  very  old,  but  I  remember 
that  I  am  getting  a  little  older  all  the  time,  and  that  many  years  have 
passed  over  my  head  during  the  time  that  I  have  been  associated  with 
the  missionary  work  in  that  land.  I  do  not  begrudge  a  single  hour, 
nor  one  single  penny  nor  labor,  nor  regret  one  single  affliction  that 
has  come  to  me ;  but  I  deem  it  a  privilege  and  a  great  blessing  that 
the  Lord  has  bestowed  upon  me  in  permitting  me  to  go  out  and  lift  my 
voice  in  defense  of  the  truth  among  the  children  of  men. 

I  feel  weighing  upon  me  greater  today  than  I  ever  have  in  all 
my  life,  the  responsibility  of  going  into  all  the  world  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  every  creature.  I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  must 
be  done.  We  have  witnessed  signs  that  bespeak  the  coming  of  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  through  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  and  through 
pestilences :  but  I  recall  also  his  prophetic  words  which  he  said,  "This 
gospel  of  the  Kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world,  as  a  witness 
to  all  men,  and  then  shall  the  end  come."  That  responsibility  still 
weighs  heavily  upon  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  O,  what  a'  responsi- 
bility to  know  that  we  have  within  our  hands  that  power  that  can 
save  men,  and  what  a  responsible  position  we  will  be  in  if  we  do  not 
do  all  that  is  within  our  power  to  take  this  and  give  it  unto  those  who 
have  it  not,  who  are  in  the  world ! 

I  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  may  rest  upon  you.  I  pray 
that  you  may  be  prospered.  O,  how  I  pray  for  the  parents  of  those 
boys  who  are  struggling  in  poverty  to  fulfil  their  missions !  I  hope 
that  means  will  come  to  you,  and  that  you  will  be  able  to  maintain 
your  boys.  Do  it,  if  you  possibly  can.  T  know  that  no  greater  bless- 
ing can  come  to  you  than  the  privilege,  of  sacrificing  in  that  way. 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT  67 

And  the  blessings  of  heaven,  remember,  after  all,  come  through  sac- 
rifice, and  we  must  be  tested,  and  we  must  be  tried.  Support  your 
boys,  encourage  them  to  stay.  We  encourage  them  to  be  frugal,  we 
encourage  them  not  to  spend  your  means  unnecessarily,  and  we  wish 
your  support  in  every  way,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  And  I  believe  we 
have  it.  I  know  that  you  have  trying  times  at  home.  Many  times 
have  I  talked  with  missionaries  in  our  particular  mission  who  are 
cramped  for  means,  and  my  heart  goes  out  to  their  mothers  and  fath- 
ers, or  to  those  who  are  supporting  them.  I  know  what  they  are  pass- 
ing through;  and  if  reward  comes  to  those  who  proclaim  the  gospel, 
so  also  will  reward  come  to  those  who  support  them  while  they  are 
there.  May  the  Lord  bless  you,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

ELDER  JOHN   M.   KNIGHT 

(President  of  the  Western  States  Mission.) 

Sincerely  do  I  pray  for  the  spirit  of  this  occasion.  Like  my 
brethren,  who  have  spoken,  I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of  Christ, 
for  I  realize  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all  those  who 
obey  it.  I  have  felt  all  my  life  that  I  need  make  no  apology  for  my 
religion.  We  have  nothing  to  be  ashamed  of  and  court  the  fullest  and 
freest  investigation  of  all  its  principles  and  practices.  The  world,  with 
all  its  strife,  turmoil,  bitterness  and  confusion,  needs  the  gospel  of  Christ 
to  bring  peace  again  to  the  earth,  and  I  am  happy  to  play  my1  little  part 
in  testifying  to  the  restoration  of  that  gospel,  in  this  dispensation, 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  have  felt  in 
my  heart  of  hearts  that  we  have  a  definite  message  for  the  world,  and 
that  the  world  is  in  need  of  that  message.  While  Elder  Jensen  was 
speaking  I  remembered  the  words  of  Josiah  Quincy,  who  visited  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  just  forty-four  days  prior  to  his  martyrdom  at 
Carthage,  Illinois,  and  published  in  his  Figures  of  the  Past,  this: 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  text  book,  for  the  use  of 
generations  yet  unborn,  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this:  What 
historical  American  of  the  19th  century  has  exerted  the  most  powerful  in- 
fluence upon  the  destiny  of  his  countrymen?  It  is  by  no  means  impossible 
that  the  answer  to  that  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written;  Joseph  Smith, 
the  'Mormon'  Prophet.  And  the  reply,  absurd  as  it  doubtless  seems  to  most 
men  now  living,  may  be  an  obvious  commonplace  to  their  descendants.  His- 
tory abounds  in  surprises  and  paradoxes  quite  as  startling  as  this.  The  man 
who  established  a  religion  in  this  age  of  free  debate,  who  was,  and  is  today, 
accepted  by  hundreds  of  thousands  as  a  direct  emissary  from  the  Most  High 
— 'Such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  be  disposed  of  by  pelting  his  memory 
with  unsavory  epithets.  Fanatic,  impostor,  charlatan,  he  may  have  been,  but 
those  hard  names,  furnish  no  solution  to  the  problems  he  presents  to  us. 
Fanatics  and  impostors  are  living  and  dying  every  day,  and  their  memory 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

is  buried  with  them;  but  the  wonderful  influence  which  this  founder  of 
religion  exerted  and  still  exerts,  throws  him  into  relief  before  us,  not  as  a 
rogue  to  be  criminated,  but  as  a  phenomenon  to  be  explained.  The  vital 
questions  Americans  are  asking  one  another  today  have  to  do  with  this  man 
and  with  what  he  has  left  us." 

Such  a  text  book  has  not  yet  been  written,  but  the  vital  questions  the 
world  is  asking  today,  have  to  do  with  this  thing  called  "Mormonism." 
lit  is  becoming  a  real  nightmare  to  some  of  them,  but  the  vile  epithets 
they  hurl  are  hurting  it  not  at  all.  Its  power  and  influence  are  being  ex- 
tended in  every  part  of  the  land,  thinking  men  and  women  are  listening 
to  the  testimony  of  the  servants  of  God,  a  knowledge  of  its  great  truths 
is  coming  into  their  lives,  and  some  of  the  very  best  among  them  are 
yielding  obedience  to  its  principles.  The  promise  made  by  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world  to  those  who  accept  the  gospel  and  obey  its  teachings, 
namely : 

"My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do 
his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether 
I  speak  pi  myself."    John  7:16-17; 

is  being  realized.  They  are  sure  it  is  true,  and  that  it  is  the  power  of 
God  unto  salvation.  I  was  reading,  a  few  days  ago,  an  article  that  ap- 
peared in  the  Denver  Post,  one  of  the  leading  newspapers  of  the  western 
states,  entitled,  "The  Churches  Have  Failed  to  Find  the  True  God," 
"Religion  Flas  Succeeded  in  Creating  Everything  but  Real  Deity." 
Alfred  W.  Martin,  associate  leader  of  the  Society  of  Ethical  Culture, 
addressing  a  New  York  audience,  according  to  the  Nezv  York  World, 
has  this  to  say : 

"The  spectacle  of  leading  representatives  of  Hinduism,  Buddhism, 
Christianity,  and  the  rest,  each  claiming  that  his  religion  will  be  the  re- 
ligion of  the  future,  makes  the  claim, ridiculous  and  absurd.  No  less  absurd 
would  be  the  claim  that  the  ethical  movement,  with  its  inadequate  name 
and  its  deepest  religious  issues  not  yet  fully  worked  out,  will  hold  the  future. 
Rather  is  the  ethical  movement  an  instrument  for  finding  a  satisfying  re- 
ligion. In  the  search  for  it  the  movement  originated  forty-five  years  ago, 
and  it  is  still  searching.  The  most  that  can  rightly  be  claimed  for  it  is  that 
it  will  make  important  contributions  to  the  religion  of  the  future,  notably 
by  its  doctrine  of  morality.  A  futile  and  thankless  task  it  would  be  to  at- 
tempt a  description  of  the  religion  of  the  future.  Of  this  much,  however,  we 
may  feel  certain,  namely,  that  the  religion  of  the  future  will  not  be  either 
the  Ethical  Culture  Movement  as  we  know  it  today,  nor  any  of  the  existing 
religions." 

I  do  not  know  if  Mr.  Martin  is  acquainted  with  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  commonly  called  "Mormon,"  but  I  want  to  bear  testimony  that 
this  is  the  one  Church  that  will  hold  the  future,  with  its  adequate 
name,  "The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,"  with  all  its  fundamental  and  deep- 
est religious  issues,  principles,  and  doctrines  fully  worked  out  by  its 
author,  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  stated  in  definite,  positive,  concrete  terms 
by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,the  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  the  elders 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT  69 

who  are  promulgating  its  truths  in  the  world ;  and  is  the  one  gospel  that 
removes  doubt,  fear  and  anxiety,  and  brings  the  satisfying  feeling  of 
peace,  joy  and  contentment  to  the  soul.  I  am  happy  to  know  we  are  not 
classed,  as  a  rule,  among  the  so-called  Christian  churches ;  that  we  are 
not  apostate  from  the  Catholic  church,  nor  a  product  of  the  great  refor- 
mation. Our  bitterest  enemies  and  severest  critics  have  never  accused  us 
of  coming  from  either  source.  We  stand  out  in  bold  relief  before  the 
world,  as  the  one  church  claiming  to  be  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
and  of  receiving  our  authority  and  appointment  to  preach  the  gospel 
from  the  Foundation  of  all  Truth.  Resurrected  beings  having  visited  the 
earth  and  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith  the  holy  Priesthood,  which  gave 
him  the  right  to  organize  the  Church  of  Christ  in  the  earth,  which  he 
did,  April  6,  1830.  I  want  to  leave  my  testimony  with  you  that  the 
church  of  the  future  will  be  the  Church  organized  by  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  and  that  it  will  go  for- 
ward in  power  and  might  until,  it  shall  accomplish  its  mission  and  des- 
tiny in  the  earth.  That  mission  and  destiny  is  to  preach  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance and  bear  witness  of  the  life  and  ministry  of  the  Son  of  God. 

I  want  to  read  another  item  that  appearead  in  the  same  paper  on 
the  same  day.  It  is  from  Rabbi  Louis  J.  Kopal,  of  Buffalo,  New  York, 
speaking  of  the  mockery  of  present-clay  religion,  he  said : 

''The  mockery  of  present-day  religion  is  the  pathetic  feat  that  we  seem 
not  to  be  profiting  from  the  experiences  of  the  centuries,  that  we  seem  not 
to  heed  the  lesson  of  how  and  why  religion  failed  to  prevent  the  world  war, 
but  rather  are  slumping  back  into  the  smug  and  fruitless  religious  life  of 
pre-war  days.  The  war  evidenced  the  fact  that  religion  had  succeeded  in 
creating  everything  but  God.  All  the  peoples  of  the  earth- have  sought  to 
find  God,  but  they  have  each  and  every  one  failed.  The  way  of  the  Jew  has 
failed,  the  way  of  the  Christian  has  failed,  the  way  of  the  Catholic  has 
failed,  the  way  of  the  Protestant  has  failed.  They  have  failed  and 
failed  ignobly,  and  the  moral  maelstrom,  the  spiritual  chaos,  the  social  re- 
actionism  of  the  moment  is  the  child  of  their  creation.  Because  religion 
has  proved  itself  to  have  created  everything  but  the  reality  of  God  in  life. 
Religion  will  fail  again  unless  God  becomes  to  us  more  than  a  name,  an 
idea,  a  fetish,  a  prayer,  a  Cathedral,  a  Church  or  Synagogue. 

"Let  us  prove  our  sincerity  by  closing  our  Churches  and  Synagogues 
and  Cathedrals  until  we  are  ready  to  make  our  practice  consistent  with 
our  profession.  Such  sincerity  may  bring  a  religion  that  is  real.  Sincerity 
will  remove  the  shallow  sham,  the  menacing  mockery  of  present  day  re- 
ligion, and  bring  God  to  America." 

That  is  a  terrible  arraignment  of  the  religious  world,  but  it  is 
in  keeping  with  the  words  of  the  master  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
in  the  woods  of  New  York,  when  the  boy  was  told  to  join  none  of  the 
existing  sects ;  that  they  had  a  form  of  Godliness,  but  denied  the 
power  thereof ;  taught  for  doctrines  the  commandments  of  men ;  draw 
near  with  their  lips  while  their  hearts  were  far  from  him.  Why  have 
the  churches  failed  to  find  God,  and  to  make  him  a  part  of  their  lives  ? 
It  is   because  they  have    created  their  own   gods,    made   their   own 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

deities  instead  of  worshiping  the  God  of  the  Bible.  To  all  of  them 
he  is  incomprehensible,  unfathomable,  unintelligible,  and'  to  thinking 
people  it  is  no  mystery  why  the  Jew,  the  Catholic,  the  Christian  and 
Protestant  have  failed  to  find  him. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  have  a  definite  and  positive  message  for 
the  world  on  this  subject,  declaring  unto  the  world  that  the  God  of  the 
Bible  is  a  personal  being,  we  ourselves  being  fashioned  in  his  image : 
that  Christ  was  God,  manifest  in  the  flesh,  the  exact  counterpart  of 
his  Father,  both  of  them  being  intelligible  and  in  a  measure  at  least, 
understandable.  The  people  of  the  earth  will  continue  their  search 
without  success  until  they  are  willing  to  acknowledge  the  great  truth 
expressed  in  the  first  revelation  given  to  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  per- 
sonal appearance  of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Then  it  was  that  God 
came  to  America,  and  I  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
face  of  the  statements  I  have  read  from  the  learned  gentlemen,  both  of 
whom  are  prominent  in  the  religious  world,  there  is  needj  of  the  elders 
of  the  Church  of  Christ  in  every  part  of  the  earth  to  proclaim  the  God 
of  heaven,  and  testify  to  the  divine  mission  of  his  Son,  Jesus  of  Naza- 
reth, who  was  crucified'  for  the  sins  of  the  world.  They  have  the  same 
commission  as  the  disciples  of  old,  and  bear  witness  of  the  great  plan 
of  redemption  wrought  out  on  Calvary  by  the  Redeemer  of  the  world 
for  the  salvation  of  the  human  family.  From  one  end  of  our  mission 
to  the  other,  the  elders  are  faithful  in  bearing  witness  to  these 
things,  and  to  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  in  this  day  and  age  of  the  world'.  They  are  not  afraid 
to  lay  down  the  gauntlet  and  declare  unto  men  and  women  everywhere, 
that  if  they  will  accept  the  truth,  yield  obedience  to  the  gospel,  repent  of 
thir  sins  and  be  baptized  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  their 
sins,  they  shall  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands.  This  witness  of  God'  will  manifest  that  we  speak  not  of  our- 
selves, that  the  doctrines  are  not  ours,  but  his  that  sent  us.  It  will  re- 
veal unto  them  the  truth  of  all  things,  and  by  it  they  may  come  to  know 
God  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  i 

The  world  at  large  is  without  this  great  gift,  they  deny  its  power, 
not  beliving  in  present-day  revelation.  Paul,  the  apostle,  writing  to 
the  Corinthian  saints  declared  unto  them: 

"Wherefore  I  give  you  to  understand  that  no  man  speaking  by  the 
Spirit  of  God  calleth  Jesus  accursed:  and  that  no  man  can  say  that  Jesus 
is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (I  Cor.  12:3.) 

The  Savior  himself  declared'  to  the  people  in  his  day,  in  the  won- 
derful prayer  recorded  in  St.  John  17 : 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent." 

Since  all  the  peoples  of  the  world  have  sought  to  find  God,  it  is 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  KNIGHT  71 

really  interesting  to  discover  in  his  word  how  we  may  come  to  a 
knowledge  of  him  and  his  Son ;  and  since  a  knowledge  of  them  is 
necessary,  if  we  obtain  eternal  life,  and  we  can  only  obtain  that 
knowledge  by  and  through  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  it  is 
absolutely  essential  that  men  and  women  be  in  possession  of  this  gift 
of  God.  They  can  receive  it  only  upon  obedience  to  the  fundamentals 
of  the  gospel,  and  in  no  other  way. 

I  rejoice  that  these  truths  have  become  a  part  of  our  lives,  that 
God  is  more  to  us  than  a  name,  an  idea,  a  prayer,  or  a  church,  and 
that  we  are  in  no  way  responsible  for  the  menacing  mockery  of  pres- 
ent-day religions. 

I  pray  that  God  will  be  with  us  as  his  children,  that  wq  may  have 
power  to  live  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  be  consistent  with  our  pro- 
fession, exemplary  in  our  conduct,  that  in  reality  we  may  be  the  salt 
of  the  earth,  the  leaven  that  will  leaven  the  whole  lump,  putting  our 
light  upon  a  hill,  where  it  can  be  seen,  and  not  under  a  bushel — that 
others  seeing  our  good  works  may  be  led  to  glorify  the  God:  of 
heaven. 

I  testify  to  you  in  the  name  of  the  Master  that  I  know,  as  I  know 
I  live,  that  this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  that  it  was  restored  to  earth  through  the  instrumentality 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  it  will  fill  its  mission  and  destiny  in 
the  earth,  and  that  no  power  under  high  heaven  can  stay  its  progress. 
God  hath  spoken  it,  and  he  will  not  be  mocked.  It  will  go  forward 
until  it  shall  fill  the  whole  earth  ;  men  and  women  in  every  clime  will 
recognize  in  it  the  truth  of  heaven.  I  pray  that  the  peace  of  our 
Father  may  be  with  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Our  God,  we  raise  to  thee." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  C.  S.  Martin. 


THIRD  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

The  third  overflow  meeting  was  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  Sun- 
day afternoon,  2  o'clock,  April  3,  1921. 

Elder  James  E.  Talmage,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  presided. 

The  music  was  furnished  by  the  LeGrand  ward  choir.  Liberty 
stake,  Heber  K.  Aldous,  conductor,  and  James  Gilbert  and  Gladys 
Spry  accompanists. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye 
Saints  of  the  Lord." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Bishop  Edward  M.  Ashton. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Grant  us  peace." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

The  congested  condition  existing  upon  this  block  at  this  time  is 
but  typical  of  the  congested  condition  in  the  Church.  It  seems  im- 
possible to  provide  meeting  houses  enough,  or  room  within  the  walls 
sufficient,  to  accommodate  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  their  assemblies. 
There  is,  without  doubt,  a  great  spiritual  revival  amongst  the  people; 
and  in  this  we  all  rejoice.  Besides  this  gathering  at  this  hour,  there 
is  an  open-air  meeting  in  progress  on  the  grounds,  and  also  the  main 
assembly  in  the  great  tabernacle. 

When  the  brethren  of  the  Twelve  go  out  amongst  the  people  they 
have,  of  course,  very  close  and  cordial  dealings  with  the  stake  presi- 
dencies, but  we  have  one  little  criticism  to  offer  that  I  think  may  well 
be  voiced  here.  It  is  somewhat  difficult  to  get  one  of  the  stake  presi- 
dents to  say  much  when  one  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  is  present. 
I  want  these  brethren  to  understand  that  they  are  the  visiting  brethren 
on  this  occasion,  and  I  want  them  to  do  just  as  we  have  to  do  when 
visiting  their  stakes.  And  I  pray  that  they  may  be  inspired  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  for  I  know  you  will  be  edified  by  what  they  have 
to  say. 


ELDER  HEBER  L.  ALLEN 

{President  of  the  Taylor  Stake  of  Zion,  Alberta,  Canada.) 

It  is  not  a  very  pleasant  sensation  to  have  the  tables  turned  on  you, 
the  way  Brother  Talmage  has  done  towards  us  this  afternoon,  in  re- 
quiring us  to  do  all  the  talking,  because  I  believe  the  situation  which 
he  has  stated  exists  in  most  all  the  stakes.  I  know  it  does  in  our  stake. 
I  know  I  once  attempted  to  speak  on  the  first  principles  of  the  gospel, 
and  one  of  the  presidents  got  up  and  said  it  was  very  refreshing  to 
hear  a  stake  president  talk  on  that  subject.  We  usually  let  the  other 
fellows  do  that. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me  with  his  Spirit  that  we  may  be 
benefited  by  meeting  together.  As  Brother  Talmage  has  stated,  I 
come  from  the  far  north,  Canada,  a  name  that  makes  most  of  you,  I 
suppose,  shiver;  you  think  that  that  is  so  far  off  and  such  a  cold 
country  that  you  have  no  desire  to  go  there ;  but  I  assure  you  that 
we  have  a  great  many  people  in  that  land  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 
And  the  Lord  has  blessed  us  fairly  well  in  that  land  during  the  last 
thirty-four  years,  since  we  first  began  to  settle  there.  We  try  to  do 
what  we  can,  in  our  weak  way,  in  that  stake  of  Zion.  We  have  adopted 
the  method  counseled  at  the  last  conference:  we  have  sent  out  a  few 
missionaries,  and  I  think  they  have  done  a  great  deal  of  good.  You 
know,  there  are  only  eight  or  ten  thousand  of  us  in  that  country — in 
that  great  nation.    Most  of  us  came  from  the  United  States.     A  few 


ELDER.  HEBER  L.  ALLEN  73 

children,  of  course,  have  been  born  there,  in  fact  quite  a  number.  We 
have  been  treated  in  that  wonderful  land  with  the  fullest  measure  of 
liberty  that  could  be  extended  to  any  people.  We  have  had  every  ad- 
vantage enjoyed  by  any  other  people  in  that  country,  and  we  feel  very 
thankful  that  that  is  the  case. 

Now,  in  our  missionary  labors  that  we  have  taken  up  recently,  we 
have  advised  the  elders  to  go  to  the  non-"Mormons,"  who  do  not  un- 
derstand the  gospel,  and  also  to  those  of  our  brethren  and  sisters  who 
have  been  a  little  careless ;  and  when  they  come  back,  they  report  that 
they  have  a  great  many  very  agreeable  gospel  conversations  with 
some  of  our  non-"Mormon"  friends.  Some  who  are  not  members  of 
the  Church  have  entertained  our  elders  for  hours  at  a  time,  and  they 
have  stated  that  they  had  no  idea  that  we  promulgated  such  ideas  as 
we  have.  One  man  who  had  been  educated  for  the  ministry  had  the 
privilege  of  hearing  two  of  our  elders,  and  he  had  been  so  prejudiced 
against  our  people  and  doctrines  that  although  the  meetings  were  held 
in  the  schoolhouse,  nearby,  he  would  not  go  in.  When  the  elders  called 
on  him,  he  would  not  invite  them  in ;  but  they  finally  persuaded  him 
to  go  into  the  schoolhouse.  He  said,  "I  was  educated  for  the  min- 
istry, but  I  don't  believe  anything  now,  there  are  so  many  conflicting 
ideas."  But  when  they  left,  he  said,  "Come  back  again,  because  I  did 
not  know,  nor  have  any  idea  that  you  had  such  splendid  principles  as 
you  have  been  telling  me  of." 

A  great  many  people  feel  that  our  people  are  away  up  out  of  the 
world  in  Canada.  Thirty-four  years  ago,  when  people  first  went  up 
there,  many  of  our  people  felt  that  after  the  storms  had  blown  over 
the  time  would  soon  come  that  they  would  be  called  back  to  Utah. 
My  grandfather  was  one  of  them  who  said  that.  I  told  him,  no ;  be- 
cause, I  said,  "You  have  heard  some  wonderful  predictions  in  relation 
to  the  labors  of  this  people  in  this  land.  I  have  heard  people  who  come 
up  there  say  that  'you  will  have  very  many  more  settlements  in  this 
beloved  country.'  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said,  'You  would  have 
thousands  and  tens  of  thousands,  and  they  would  extend  far  up  to  the 
Great  Bay,  pointing  up  to  the  great  Hudson's  bay.'  "  I  have  taken  a 
great  deal  of  pleasure  in  predictions  of  that  kind,  and  I  have  spent 
all  my  time  and  energies  there,  in  fact.  I  have  become  a  citizen 
there,  over  30  years  ago;  but  still  I  can  say  that  no  man  born  in  this 
great  country  can  feel  a  warmer  feeling  in  his  heart  for  this  great  Re- 
public in  which  you  live  than  we ;  and  we  always  look  back  and  say, 
That  is  a  wonderfully  blessed  land  where  the  Lord  said  that  he  raised 
up  good  and  wise  men  for  the  purpose  of  establishing  his  great  work. 
Now  I  say,  we  see  the  fulfilment  of  these  prophecies. 

I  have  often  thought  of  that  wonderful  vision  that  Nephi  had. 
He  said,  he  saw  that  wonderful  Church,  and  it  spread  abroad,  and 
multitudes  of  people  belonged  to  it ;  and  he  also  saw  that  the  people 
of  the  Lord  were  scattered  over  the  whole  earth,  but  their  numbers 
.were   few.     It  may  be  that  the   Lord    will  use  that  as  a  means  of 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

promulgating  his  work  in  the  last  days.  Some  people  are  so  full  of 
prejudice  they  will  not  give  attention  to  the  principles  that  we  preach. 
If  they  did,  they  would  say,  as  this  man  did,  that  they  had  never  had 
any  idea  that  we  had  such  wonderful  and  noble  principles.  But  when 
they  come  to  examine  our  principles  they  wonder,  and  think  they  could 
be  patterned  after. 

Some  of  our  people  have  attended  some  of  the  meetings  of  a 
great  Farmers'  association  there.  We  have  a  very  strong  organization 
along  that  line  in  Alberta,  and  our  bishops  have  been  strong  repre- 
sentatives of  that  organization,  and  in  one  of  our  meetings  they  put 
forward  a  resolution  in  relation  to  tobacco,  and  they  petitioned  par- 
liament, or  at  least  the  provincial  legislative  body,  that  they  would 
raise  the  age  at  which  cigarettes  could  be  sold  to  boys.  In  the  recent 
vote  for  prohibition,  the  province  went  overwhelmingly  in  favor  of 
prohibition,  and  of  course  our  people  stood  where  they  ought  to  stand, 
in  the  lead,  and  our  vote  was  the  largest  in  the  province.  Now  they 
can  see  what  we  are  doing.  We  have  already  maintained,  for  a  great 
many  years,  the  only  local  option  district  in  that  country.  Through 
the  efforts  of  President  Card,  that  was  brought  about,  and  finally  the 
majority  of  the  people  there  voted  in  favor  of  temperance,  prohibition. 

We  live  on  a  little  branch  railway  known  as  the  Cardston  branch, 
and  some  of  the  travelers,  after  we  had  put  forth  the  M.  I.  A.  slogan, 
have  said,  "Why,  my  house  has  told  me  not  to  come  down  this  way 
with  our  wares,  because  the  people  have  adopted  that  resolution,  and 
won't  buy  our  coffee  there.  Now  our  stores  are  quitting  the  sale  of 
tobacco,"  he  said.  Another  man  said,  "I  sell  tobacco,  and  my  house 
has  ordered  me  not  to  go  down  there,  for  none  of  the  stores  are  selling 
tobacco,  and  we  cannot  sell  very  much  down  in  that  country."  An 
example  of  that  kind  begins  to  have  its  effect  upon  the  people. 

I  was  in  a  big  banquet  not  long  ago,  at  which  one  of  the  members 
of  the  board  of  trade,  with  a  wide  reputation,  happened  to  be  sitting 
by  me,  and  they  have  a  habit  of  almost  smoking  you  out  in  their  ban- 
quets. He  said,  "Mr.  Allen,  I  feel  that  it  is  almost  a  sacrilege  to 
sit  here  and  smoke  beside  you."  That  meant  to  me  a  good  deal ;  it 
meant  that  they  had  begun  to  take  notice  of  what  we  had  been  teach- 
ing. In  a  few  ways  of  this  kind  the  gospel  is  being  preached  in  that 
great  land. 

In  that  great  convention  I  mentioned,  we  were  told,  "You  'Mor- 
mons' are  not  getting  the  benefit  of  all  the  taxes  that  you  ought  to  get, 
and  that  you  help  to  pay,  because  you  haven't  got  enough  men  in  the 
penitentiary."  Those  men  said,  "You  haven't  got  any  men  in  the 
penitentiary,  and  still  you  are  paying  your  share  of  the  taxes." 

Up  where  I  live  they  organize  for  the  farm  women  also,  so  that 
they  can  get  social  and  other  privileges.  When  they  came  into  our 
midst  they  said  they  recognized  something  that  there  was  not  in  any 
other  province.  They  said,  "You  are  looking  after  your  own  poor 
better  than  anybody  else  in  the  province ;  and  this  is  a  part  of  our 


ELDER  HEBER  L.  ALLEN  75 

work  that  we  do  not  emphasize,  because  you  do  not  need  it  in  this 
community. " 

Recently  when  we  paid  a  visit  to  the  leading  educators,  and  on 
the  occasion  of  the  visit  of  Superintendent  Adam  S.  Bennion,  in  the 
interest  of  the  Church  schools,  they  said  something  that  was  interest- 
ing. You  know,  there  has  been  talk  of  closing  up  Church  schools ; 
but  the  minister  of  education  said,  "You  hold  to  that  Church  school 
just  as  long  as  you  possibly  can,  because  it  has  filled  wonderfully  a 
want  felt  in  that  community,  that  no  other  province  has  done,  in  getting 
young  men  into  the  school  and  educating  them."  He  said,  we  want 
to  introduce  domestic  art  and  other  manual  and  domestic  training  in 
our  Church  schools,  and  the  best  representative  of  that  was  right  in 
Raymond,  and  these  things  are  efforts  along  a  line  of  work  that  is 
highly  important.  They  are  carrying  out  the  ideas  that  President 
Young  advocated  more  than  fifty  years  ago,  when  he  said  that  the 
boys  ought  to  be  taught  to  be  better  farmers;  and  the  girls,  better 
housewives,  so  that  they  can  be  better  citizens.  We  had  the  first 
schools  in  the  province  that  introduced  domestic  art  and  science ;  and, 
in  fact,  others  want  us  to  cooperate  with  them. 

When  our  trustees  went  up  to  the  educational  convention  they  re- 
ported that  ours  was  the  only  school  outside  of  their  large  cities  that 
was  carrying  on  any  of  that  work. 

In  this  way,  it  may  be  that  the  gospel  may  be  preached,  for  they 
will  get  a  chance  in  that  way  to  see  some  of  our  good  works.  May 
be,  after  a  while,  they  will  begin  to  recognize  that  there  are  some 
other  principles  that  are  very  valuable,  and  for  the  uplift  and  benefit 
of  men ;  and  I  hope  that  the  day  will  soon  come  that  they  can  recog- 
nize us  for  our  real  worth,  and  when  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  shall  be 
better  than  anything  else  with  them,  and  when  they  can  be  baptized 
into  the  same  spirit  that  we  are  baptized  into,  and  a  spirit  of  brotherly 
love  and  kindness  shall  exist  in  all  parts  of  the  world.  Then  they  will 
begin  to  receive  the  benefits  of  "Mormonism,"  for  which  it  has  been 
restored  to  the  .earth. 

Now,  at  home  we  have  the  privilege  of  entertaining  most  of  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  I  would  just  like  to  bear  testi- 
mony of  the  worth  of  these  men.  I  do  this  because  we  are  sustaining 
two  new  members  of  the  general  authorities  at  this  conference.  We 
have  had  the  privilege  of  entertaining  22  out  of  26.  Brother  Talmage 
has  not  yet  favored  us  with  a  visit,  nor  Brother  Widtsoe,  of  course.  I 
want  to  bear  testimony  that  they  are  very,  very  good  men,  and  that 
we  are  perfectly  safe  in  following  their  footsteps ;  and  we  don't  want 
to  get  the  idea  that  we  want  to  do  something  that  is  contrary  to  the 
will  of  the  Church ;  because,  from  the  ideas  that  I  have  received  from 
carrying  them  over  our  great  prairies,  and  having  them  in  our  own 
homes,  they  are  splendid  men,  and  I  have  not  heard  any  one  of  them 
suggest  that  which  would  smack  of  trickery  or  anything  of  that  kind, 
but  they  are  pure-minded  men.     While  I  loved  President  Joseph  F. 


76  GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 

Smith  above  all  other  men,  I  can  see  that  the  Lord  raises  up  other 
men  who  are  carrying  on  the  work,  just  as  well  as  men  have  been 
carrying  it  on  in  the  past.  At  the  present  time  I  can  say  that  I  admire 
President  Grant  very  much.  I  rode  with  him  all  over  our  stake,  just 
previous  to  his  being  promoted  to  the  presidency  of  the  Church,  and  I 
found  him  to  be  a  man  that  is  pure-minded,  and  one  who  has  the  in- 
terests of  the  people  at  heart.  And  these  other  brethren  who  have 
recently  been  sustained,  I  can  sustain  them  with  all  my  heart.  It  is  a 
source  of  pleasure  to  sustain  these  men  by  raising  our  hands  and  then 
going  home  and  supporting  them  in  everything  that  we  do  in  life. 
May  the  Lord  enable  us  to  do  that,  and  also  recognize  that  there  is 
order  in  his  Church,  and  that  whenever  he  has  anything  to  do  he  will 
do  it  through  the  proper  channel.  I  pray  that  we  may  follow  our  file 
leaders,  that  we  may  be  indeed  true  Latter-day  Saints,  and  also,  that 
we  may  do  our  part  in  promulgating  the  gospel.  This  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

The  LeGrand  ward  male  quartet,  under  the  direction  of  Leland 
I.  Acomb,  sang,  "Nearer,  my  God,  to  thee." 


ELDER  ROBERT  D.  YOUNG 

{President  of  the  Sevier  Stake  of  Zion.) 

This  inspiring  congregation,  the  opening  prayer  and  the  beautiful 
music,  all  make  one  feel  like  Peter  oif  old,  that  "it  is  good  to  be  here," 
although  one's  individual  part  m,ay  be  a  trying  ordeal. 

The  Sevier  stake  of  Zion  is  not  situated  in  the  extreme  north  or 
south.  We  are  centrally  located ;  and,  until  recently  it  comprised 
what  President  Grant  notified  you  of  today,  both  North  Sevier  stake 
and  South  Sevier  stake.  We  had  a  very  large  stake,  both  in  number 
of  wards  and  in  large  territory  to  cover ;  hence,  the  brethren  deemed 
it  wise  to  divide  it  up  into  three  different  stakes.  So  the  Sevier  stake 
is  not  today  as  large  as  it  was  at  the  time  oi  our  last  conference. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  remarks  of  President  Allen.  In  just  a  few 
words,  I  will  tell  you  why :  when  I  hear  the  name  "Allen"  it  links 
an  incident  up  in  my  life  that  has  always  been  and  always  will  be 
sacred  to  me.  I  do  not  know  whether  President  Allen  is  a  representa- 
tive of  the  Allen  family  I  now  speak  of.  My  mother  was  an  orphan 
girl.  Her  home  was  in  Glasgow,  Scotland.  She  was  fourteen  years 
otf  age  when  she  received  the  message  of  truth,  through  the  elders  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  She  received  a  testi- 
mony and  became  converted.  She  had  been  cared  for  during  several 
years  by  the  Allen  family  who  were  neighbors  to  her  mother  and 
father  before  their  death.  They  asked  her,  "Mary,  are  you  interested 
in  the  'Mormon'  faith?"  In  tellmg  the  story,  the  tears  welled  up  in 
the  little  girl's  eyes,   for  she  knew  what  was  coming,  and  she  told 


ELDER  ROBERT  D.  YOUNG  77 

them,  yes,  that  she  was  very  much  interested  in  them,  that  she  be- 
lieved that  they  were  true  servants  of  God,  and  that  this  was  actually 
the  Church  of  Christ.  They  asked  her,  "Do  you  insist  in  going  to 
their  meetings?"  She  answered,  "I  would  like  to."  Grandpa  Allen 
said,  "Very  well,  my  son  John  says  that  you  are  disgracing  the  fam- 
ily." Inasmuch  as  they  were  business  people  in  that  community,  he 
said,  "I  hear  it  from  all  our  customers  and  from  people  on  the  street, 
that  the  little  girl  who  is  with  you  and  whom  you  have  been  caring 
for,  is  giving  continual  attention  to  those  'Mormon'  people  and  John 
is  very  much  offended ;  it  has  come  to  this,  Mary :  you  either  accept 
of  our  home  and  its  hospitality,  or  take  'Mormonism,'  and  there  is 
the  door."  She  took  the  door.  Thank  God  for  the  courage,  for  the 
faith,  and  the  stability  the  Lord  had  granted  to  her  in  her  teens.  She 
had  but  one  shilling.  She  secured  what  was  known  as  the  Townshead 
hall ;  and  she  pleaded  with  the  caretaker,  for  the  one  shilling,  to  per- 
mit the  elders,  who  were  traveling  without. purse  or  scrip,  to  preach 
there  that  evening.  She  prevailed  upon  themi,  and  they  permitted 
the  elders  to  speak.  She  related  to  them  that  she  was  homeless,  and 
the  elders  blessed  her.  Before  she  left  the  meeting,  she  was  offered 
several  homes,  by  several  people,  who  were  impressed  by  the  power 
of  the  Lord  to  give  her  assistance.  But  the  story  is  this — I  don't  in- 
tend Brother  Allen  personally  to  take  this — that  Grandpa  Allen  said, 
to  his  children  and  his  wife :  "If  'Mormonism'  can  fasten  itself  upon  a 
little  girl  securely  as  it  did  on  Mary,  knowing  her  life  as  we  all  know 
it,  knowing  her  appreciation  for  our  home  and  our  comfort,  then  I 
want  to  say  that  there  is  some  greater  power  than  just  man's,  about 
this  great  work  known  as  'Mormonism.'  "  To  cut  a  long  story  short, 
the  first  dinner  my  good  mother  received,  after  she  left  the  old  coun- 
try, she  received  here  in  Utah,  prepared  by  the  Allen  family,  and  as 
far  as  I  know  they  have  continued  to  remain  firm,  steadfast  and  im- 
movable to  the  cause   of  our  Savior. 

Here,  this  afternoon,  we  sang  that  beautiful  hymn,  "How  firm 
a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the  Lord,  is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excel- 
lent word."  Is  it  not  to  all  of  us  an  excellent  word?  Is  it  not  the 
most  secure  foundation  that  we  could  imagine?  Is  there  another  or- 
ganization, that  is  as  secure,  as  solid,  as  perfectly  organized,  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  ? 

We  have  heard,  this  morning,  from  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  who 
gave  us  his  blessings.  With  him  are  his  counselors,  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  the  seven  presidents  of  Seventy,  and  like  organizations,  as  you 
go  down  the  line  of  the  priesthood,  one  by  one,  organized  in  every 
stake  and  ward  of  Zion.  Now.  I  know  that  they  are  men  of  God.  I 
have  been  acquainted  with  them  for  many,  many  years.  They  have 
been  in  my  home ;  and  they  have  slept  there  and  eaten  there.  I  have 
labored  with  them  in  various  capacities,  some  of  them,  and  I  want  to 
testify  that  there  are  no  men  that  I  have  ever  come  in  contact  with  in 
my  life  who  are  so  absolutely  devoted,  heart  and  hand,  dedicated  to 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  service  of  the  Lord,  for  the  welfare  of  their  fellow  men,  banish- 
ing selfishness,  and  thinking  of  others.  I  think  of  the  home,  if  you 
will  pardon  me,  that  I  was  reared  in ;  I  think  of  my  good  old  father 
standing  up,  and  with  tears  in  his  eyes,  saying  to  his  boys  and  girls : 
"O  how  bad  I  would  feel,  if  one  of  my  boys  and  girls  ever  in  their 
lives  permitted  the  servants  of  God  to  be  assailed  in  their  hearing."  All 
the  days  of  my  life  I  heard,  in  that  home,  while  my  father  lived, 
courage,  good  words,  words  of  counsel  and  advice.  If  we  will  fol- 
low closely  and  carefully  the  counsel  of  these  meh,  and;  be  painstaking 
we  shall  have  success  in  life,  and  be  able  to  live  in  righteousneess ;  and 
we  shall  be  crowned  with  a  crown  of  glory  resulting  from  successful 
life  here  in  mortality. 

Just  one  word  with  reference  to  our  organizations.  Sometimes 
our  boys  and  our  girls,  at  certain  ages,  are  a  little  careless,  probably 
grow  a  little  doubtful,  skeptical  in  a  degree,  and  do  not  quite  under- 
stand clearly.    I  think  of  the  words  of  the  poet,  wherein  he  said : 

THE  OLDER  I  GROW 

The  older  I  grow  the  more  patient  I  am, 

And  fonder  of  people  I  seem  to  become: 
I  find  much  that's  real  hidden  deep  in  the  sham, 

I  know  that  life's  juices  are  under  the  scum. 
The  care  that  once  fretted  as  trifles  appear: 

And  the  faults  that  loomed  large  in  the  friends  that  I  know, 
Seem  to  fade  in  a  background  of  kindness  and  cheer. 

The  older  I  grow. 

Time  was  that  I  questioned  the  purpose  of  life — 

In  the  mad  way  of  youth  I  was  quick  with  my  hate: 
But  I  knew  not  the  depth  nor  the  breadth  of  the  strife, 

And  I  knew  nothing  then  of  the  workings  of  fate, 
I  judged  from  the  surface  and  not  from  the  deep, 

I  was  wasteful  with  pleasure  and  fearless  of  woe, 
But  I  find  that  my  joys  I'm  more  eager  to  keep 

The  older  I  grow. 

I  chose  all  my  friends  with  particular  care, 

And  heedlessly  wounded  the  truest  and  best: 
To  many  a  false  god  I  sent  up  a  prayer, 

Then  the  real  things  of  life  seemed  a  subject  for  jest, 
And  the  bad  seemed  the  good,  and  the  good  seemed  the  bad. 

I  scorned  in  my  haste  what  was  splendid  below: 
But  I  find  myself  longing  to  have  what  I  had, 
.  The  older  I  grow. 

I  have  learned  that  men's  follies  are  not  printed  deep: 

That  many,  youth  mocks  at,  are  splendid  and  fine: 
And  young  people  scatter  the  joys  they  should  keep, 

In  the  very  same  way  that  I  once  wasted  mine. 
I'm  more  tolerant  now,  I  am  slower  to  sneer, 

For  I've  suffered  my  griefs  and  I've  winced  at  a  blow: 
And  the  money  I  find  matters  less  and  less  here, 

The  older  I  grow. 

From  the  Wall  Street  Journal. 


ELDER  ROBERT  D.  YOUNG  79 

I  wonder,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  I  may  say  one  more  word. 
As  in  all  parts  of  the  Church  we  see  manifest  in  our  own  stake  and 
wards,  a  spiritual  uplift ;  we  see  an  increase  in  activity  in  all  branches 
of  the  work,  and  in  all  the  organizations  of  the  Church  in  our  stake. 
We  notice  that  there  is  more  painstaking  and  care,  that  people  keep 
the  commandments  more  truly  than  they  ever  did  before.  But  with  all 
that,  I  feel  that  our  homes  are  not  just  given  the  full  attention,  they 
deserve,  because  of  the  many  worldly  affairs,  with  which  the  bless- 
ings of  God  have  provided  us.  I  wonder  if  we  are  remembering  our 
boys  and  girls,  are  we  praying  with  them  morning  and  night?  I  wonder 
if  we  are  asking  them  to  take  their  turn,  and  thank  God  for  these  peace- 
ful homes  in  the  valleys  of  the  mountains. 

Thank  the  Lord  for  our  leaders,  these  good  men  whom  God  has 
chosen ;  there  are  no  better ;  they  will  guide  this  people  safely  through 
all  the  storms  of  life,  may  we  become  endeared  to  these  men, and  know 
them;  as  they  truly  are,  servants  of  God.  Good  reading  is  good  seed- 
ing, it  has  been  said ;  good  counsel  is  good  seeding,  and  if  we  can 
bring  and  keep  our  boys  and  girls  under  a  beneficent  influence,  then 
we  have  accomplished  a  successful  thing.  If  not,  as  we  grow  older, 
we  will  find  our  hearts  long  to  taste  what  was  offered  us,  but  which 
we  did  not  fully  appreciate  as  young  men.  As  one  grows  in  years, 
comes  to  the  years  of  accountability,  the  teachings  of  childhood  stand 
more  specifically  and  clearly  in  one's  life ;  then  the  youth  sees  more 
clearly  what  he  has  to  do,  and  if  his  parents  have  been  faithful,  they 
have  given  him  just  what  is  kith  and  kin  to  his  better  nature. 

While  all  this  is  going  on,  while  we  have  a  general  increase  in 
our  activities,  I  wonder  if  we  are  watching  the  home  circle  care- 
fully. I  spoke  to  one  of  our  special  missionaries  lately,  and  I  know 
that  once  he  had  been  just  a  little  obstinate  and  I  said  to  the  brethren : 
"There  is  the  meeting  house ;  I  am  not  my  brother's  keeper,  if  they 
want  to  go  to  meeting  let  them  go  to  meeting."  He  said  to  me  just 
the  other  day:  "Oh.  Brother  Young,  I  feel  so  sorry  for  what  I  once 
said  to  you.  If  this  missionary  work  has  not  done  anything  else,  it 
has  converted  me  beyond  the  possibility  of  a  doubt,  that  I  am  my 
brother's  keeper,  and  that  God  holds  me  responsible  to  discharge  to 
the  very  best  of  my  ability  the  work  that  he  places  in  my  hands."  Our 
work  is  increasing.  We  have  never  had  anything  else  in  our  stake 
that  has  accomplished  so  much  good,  apparently,  with  those  who  were 
wandering,  careless,  and  negligent  in  reference  to  their  duties,  as 
this  special  missionary  work. 

We  have  a  wonderful  foundation  laid  for  our  faith,  and  I  want 
to  say  that  these  wor:-  r,f  Christ  are  true:  "My  sheep  know!  my  voice, 
and  a  stranger  they  will  not  follow."  When  I  was  in  the  mission 
field  I  had  a  wonderful  testimony.  A  Scandinavian  brother  who  came 
to  Australia,  had  a  sister  who  was  converted  to  "Mormonism"  and 
before  he  left,  she  put  in  his  trunk  a  Book  of  Mormon  and  a  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.     There  were  two  Lutheran  bovs  who  came  to 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Australia  who  were  very  bitter.  One  of  them  became  converted  out 
there.  He  asked  the  other  man,  his  companion,  to  read  with  him,  be- 
cause he  had  got  a  testimony  that  the  gospel  was  true.  Finally  he  died, 
and  on  his  deathbed,  and  to  the  disgust  of  his  Lutheran  minister,  he 
said  he  was  a  "Mormon,"  and  wanted  to  be  buried  as  a  "Mormon." 
But  his  last  words  to  his  companion  were,  "Will:  you  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  will  you  ask  the  Lord  to  guide  you  and  direct  you,  and 
if  you  do  not  receive  a  testimony,  as  far  as  I  am  concerned,  I  will  hold 
you  no  more  responsible.  He  died;  his  companion  received  a  testi- 
mony. He  did  not  know  for  some  time  that  there  were  any  elders  in 
Queensland  until  he  had  heard  from  Copenhagen  to  this  effect.  He 
came  to  search  for  us.  The  ministers  tried  to  keep  him  away.  Finally, 
when  he  landed  in  Brisbane,  Aus.,  he  was  met  by  them,  and  inas- 
much as  he  was  determined  to  find  the  elders,  they  told  him  where  he 
would  find  the  re-organized  church.  As  a  last  resort  they  thought,  we 
will  send  him  there.  He  listened  to  their  story.  He  had  never  met 
an  elder  in  his  life.  His  name  is  Peter  Christensen,  and  he  is  now  in 
Idaho  ;  he  had  never  met  an  elder,  but  he  listened  to  their  story,  and  he 
said:  "You  are  not  the  people  that  I  am  looking  for;"  and  he  went 
on.  He  came  to  our  headquarters.  I  met  him;  and  talked  to  him,  and 
the  tears  streamed  down  his  cheeks,  as  he  said,  "You  are  the  people." 
I  thought  that  a  wonderful  testimony. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  we  sustain,  uphold,  love  our  neigh- 
bors as  ourselves,  and  never  be  found  speaking  evil  of  God's  anointed, 
our  brethren  and  sisters,  or  our  fellow  men,  is  my  prayer,  in  Ihe  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

Leland  I.  Acomb  sang  a  tenor  solo,  "Comfort  ye  my  people." 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER 

{President  of  the  Woodruff  Stake  of  Zion.) 

In  listening  to  the  report  of  President  Grant  concerning  the  prog- 
ress of  the  Church  and  the  increase  in  attendance  at  the  sacrament 
meetings  throughout  the  Church,  and  in  witnessing  the  thousands  of 
people  who  have  come  up  to  attend  this  great  conference,  I  have  had  a 
great  deal  of  joy  and  satisfaction  in  my  heart,  for  I  can  assure  you  that 
my  heart  is  in  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  in  the  progress  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  upon  the  earth. 

There  is  no  greater  evidence  of  the  faith  of  the  people  than  the 
sacrifices  that  they  make  in  order  that  they  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  and  the  teachings  of  the  gospel.  It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to 
me  to  see  hundreds  of  people  at  this  conference  who  remained  in  their 
seats  from  one  meeting  to  another,  in  order  that  they  might  be  able 
to  hear  the  servants  of  the  Lord.    As  a  people  we  have  manifested  our 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER  81 

faith  in  the  Lord  and  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  from  the  beginning  of 
this  Church.  We  have  read  in  the  good  books,  which  we  call  the 
Scriptures,  evidences  of  the  faith  of  the  Saints- in  former  dispensations; 
we  have  evidence  of  the  faith  of  Abraham  and.  those  of  his  dispensa- 
tion, the  faith  of  the  apostles  of  our  Lord  in  their  day,  in  traveling 
throughout  the  earth,  promulgating  the  principles  of  eternal  life ;  but 
it  does  seem  to  me  that  there  has  been  no  greater  faith  evinced  by 
any  people  than  that  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  our  own  dispensation. 
The  early  elders  of  the  Church,  and  in  fact  all  of  the  prophets  and 
apostles  of  the  Church  from  its  organization,  have  manifested  the  same 
great  faith  and  diligence  and  labors  in  the  cause  of  the  kingdom  of 
God  as  were  ever  manifested  by  those  of  ancient  times.  Not  only  these, 
but  the  Latter-day  Saints  generally,  as  referred  to  by  the  previous 
speaker  regarding  his  mother,  who  embraced  the  gospel  in  her  girl- 
hood days,  and  therefore  was  driven  from  her  home.  Hundreds  of 
people  have  done  the  same.  The  people  of  this  dispensation  have  been 
gathered  "one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,"  and  have  been  gathered 
to  these  valleys  of  the  mountains  under  greater  or  less  trying  circum- 
stances, and  they  have  been  faithful  and  true  to  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.    This  is  a  great  evidence  of  its  divinity  today. 

In  this  conference  are  assembled  today  people  from  all  over  this 
western  country,  from  Canada  on  the  north  to  Mexico  on  the  south, 
and  I  presume  that  as  an  organized  stake  of  Zion,  we  are  farthest  on 
the  east ;  and  we  have  also  those  from  the  ocean  on  the  west,  who 
have  spent  their  means  and  their  time,  and  gathered  up  in  this  great 
concourse  of  people  to  worship  God  and  be  instructed  in  the  principles  of 
eternal  life,  and  to  assist  in  sustaining  before  God,  our  eternal  Father, 
those  who  have  been  called  to  act  as  our  leaders  in  this  great  dispensa- 
tion of  the  fulness  of  times.  It  seems  to  me  that  this  is  a  wonder- 
ful testimony,  for  it  is  a  wonderful  display  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

I  was  thinking,  while  the  former  speaker  was  speaking  of  his 
mother  joining  the  Church  in  her  childhood  days,  of  my  own  mother; 
and  you  will  pardon  me  a  moment  if  I  refer  to  her,  as  I  am  perhaps 
better  acquainted  with  her  efforts  and  labors  in  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  the  training  she  gave  me,  than  any  other  thing  I  am  acquainted 
with  on  this  earth.  She  was  one  of  those  who  left  her  home,  country, 
and  everything  near  and  dear  to  her  for  the  Gospel's  sake,  and  came 
across  these  barren  deserts,  and  she  drew  a  handcart  with  a  little  child 
three  years  old  from  the  Missouri  river  to  these  valleys.  She  did  not 
draw  the  handcart  all  the  way.  Her  husband  accompanied  her  part  of 
the  way,  but  he  laid  his  body  down  upon  the  plains,  and  left  her  to 
continue  the  journey  with  the  little  child  three  years  of  age,  in  the 
handcart.  She  was  one  of  those  caught  in  the  snow  with  a  late  com- 
pany, in  the  Sweetwater  country,  when  the  teams  and  brethren  came 
to  meet  them,  and  saved  them  all  from  starvation.  And  then  she  came 
to  this  country  as  a  widow,  having  left  a  comfortable  home,  parents, 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

brothers,  sisters,  and  friends,  and  all  that  was  near  and  dear  to  her 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  in  a  foreign  land,  and  traversed  these 
plains,  and  got  caught  in  that  deep  snow.  I  have  heard  her  say  many 
times,  that  when  they  slept  in  their  tent  out  in  the  snow,  their  camp- 
fire  went  away  down  in  the  deep  snow,  and  they  were  above  the  fire. 
And  I  remember  her  relating  a  little  incident  in  connection  with  the 
death  of  her  husband.  He  became  so  fatigued  and  worn  out,  that  he 
could  not  travel  any  further.  They  took  him  in  a  wagon,  after  the 
brethren  and  teams  had  met  him  ;  she  had  a  little  piece  of  candle  that  she 
had  carried  in  some  way.  She  could  not  stand  to  see  the  breath  of  life 
leave  her  husband  in  the  dark,  and  she  not  be  able  to  behold  his  face. 
She  prayed  to  God  that  this  little  piece  of  candle  might  remain  lighted 
as  long  as  life  remained  in  her  husband.  This  prayer  was  granted  to 
her,  for  with  the  going  out  of  the  candle  the  breath  of  life  went  out  from 
her  husband.  Nine  persons  were  buried'  in  the  same  grave,  the  next 
morning.  Now  I  just  refer  to  this  to  show  you  the  faith  of  those 
who  have  received  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

It  seems  to  me  that  the  Lord  is  pleased  with  us  who  have  assembled 
at  this  conference  today.  It  must  be  pleasing  in  the  sight  of  God  to 
see  us  hungering  and  thirsting  after  righteousness.  I  see  people  try- 
ing to  get  access  to  all  the  buildings  here.  I  know  that  the  time  is 
far  spent,  and  there  is  another  speaker,  and  I  do  not  wish  to  intrude 
upon  his  time.    I  pray  God  to  bless  you.     Amen. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  F.  SMITH 

(President  of  the  Snowflake  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  pray  that  my  heart  beats  true  and  that  my  voice  will  ring  in 
accord  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  which  is  in  the  hearts  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  assembled  here.  The  mention  of  Arizona  may  warm  you 
up,  and  I  trust  that  it  will  warm  up  your  souls  unto  salvation.  Ari- 
zona is  a  good  land  to  live  in. 

At  the  suggestion  of  Elder  Talmage,  I  might  say  something 
about  our  stake,  if  it  may  not  be  considered  throwing  boquets  at  my- 
self and  my  people.  There  is  no  one  present,  I  believe,  who  belongs  in  our 
stake,  because  there  were  only  five  persons  who  came  in  our  company, 
and  I  believe  they  are  all  in  the  Tabernacle,  and  they  will  therefore 
not  hear  what  I  may  say,  and  so  perhaps  I  may  be  pardoned  for  say- 
ing something  kindly  about  our  own  people.  I  want  to  say  something 
about  our  climate,  though,  so  that  you  will  not  be  going  away  with  a 
misapprehension.  Snowflake,  Arizona,  is  in  (the  mountains  of  that 
land,  and  therefore  is  not  hot.  Our  climate  is  delightful,  as  much 
so  as  that  of  Salt  Lake  City.  The  Latter-day  Saints  there  are  trying 
their  best  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  as  you  are.  We  are 
glad,  always,  to  compare  notes  with  our  neighbor  stakes.  We  are  de- 
lighted when  the  bulletin  comes  down  there,  and  we  can  compare  our 


ELDER  SAMUEL  F.  SMITH  S3 

record  with  others.  We  very  seldom,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  get  first  rank, 
but  we  are  sure  that  we  never  get  at  the  foot  of  the  ranks.  In  the  mat- 
ter of  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings,  that  is  very  good,  above  the 
average ;  and  the  best  part  of  it  is,  our  young  people  attend  the  sacra- 
ment meetings.  This  is  due  largely  to  the  work  of  the  Mutual  Improve- 
ment Associations  and  our  Church  school.  The  teachers  are  with  the 
young  people,  and  they  take  them  with  them.  They  are  all  engaged  in 
the  activities  of  the  Church.  They  participate  in  the  singing  of  the 
choir ;  in  fact,  they  are  the  choir,  and  I  am  sure  you,  could  you  hear, 
would  bear  witness  with  me  that  it  is  beautiful  singing.  We  have  as 
large  a  percentage  as,  and  I  think  greater  than,  the  average  of  the 
Church,  of  missionaries  in  the  world,  preaching  the  gospel.  We  have 
a  large  percentage  of  our  young  people  in  attendance  at  Church  schools, 
much  larger  than  the  average. 

Our  Mutuals  have  a  full  equipment,  considering  the  standard  of 
the  Church  schools,  as  to  the  enrollment,  and  more.  The  activities 
of  the  priesthood  include  nearly  all  the  brethren.  Forty-seven  of  our 
brethren  who  hold  the  higher  Priesthood  have  been  and  are  now 
on  missions. 

In  connection  with  our  Church  schools,  I  want  to1  mention  our  re- 
ligion class.  We  conduct  an  ideal  religion  class  every  morning,  at 
8:45.  The  religion  class  assembles  for  15  minutes.  The  children  are 
so  interested  that  usually  they  are  there  on  time,  and  for  15  minutes 
they  are  fed  upon  gospel  truth,  for  five  days  of  every  week.  It  is  a 
most  splendid  help  in  the  education  of  our  children.  It  fills  a  much 
needed  want  in  our  educational  work. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  credit  of  our  neighbors  and  friends  in 
Arizona,  that  they  are  exceedingly  liberal,  and  I  have  not  found  any  who 
thought  it  was  polluting  the  land  to  permit  us  to  teach  religion  in  the 
school  houses,  outside  of  school  hours.  The  people  have  appreciated 
what  we  were  doing,  and  have  permitted  us  to  go  forward  instead  of 
being  prohibited  from  the  use  of  the  school  house  at  all,  for  these  pur- 
poses, as  has  been  the  case  in  some  places  in  our  country.  We  have  had 
the  benefit  of  our  school  houses  every  day  for  a  number  of  years.  We 
have  seen  splendid  results  from  this.  Our  boys  grow  up  to  know 
the  truth  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  as  naturally  as  they  grow  up  to 
know  the  truth  of  arithmetic. 

Our  people  are  loyal  to  the  temple  work.  I  believe  that,  of  late 
particularly,  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  our  country  have  been  very  much 
led  to  contemplate  temple  work.  That  has  come,  I  am  compelled  to  say, 
very  much  by  the  work  and  efforts  of  ;he  Relief  Society;  but  they  are 
doing  a  splendid  work,  and  as  suggested  oy  the  Prophet,  they  are  "pro- 
voking the  brethren  to  good  works."  Our  attendance  at  priesthood 
meetings  is  very  good,  though  not  so  good  that  I  desire  to  make  spe- 
cial mention  of  it.  Our  brethren  and  sisters  are  devoted  to  the  work 
of  the  Lord.  I  think  we  stand  very  close  to  the  top,  in  the  matter  of 
tithing,  and  offerings.     We  are  not,  perhaps,  in  a  wealthy  land,  but 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

our  people  would  rank  as  being  wealthy,  if  judged  by  their  tithing  per 
capita.    It  is  a  barometer  at  least  of  their  faith  in  the  gospel. 

I  rejoice  to  be  associated  with  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  re- 
joice to  bring  to  you  the  good  feeling  and  cheer  of  the  people  of  our 
land,  and  to  tell  you  that  we  are  engaged  in  the  same  great  work, 
and  that  we  are  all  fully  expecting  that  the  kingdom  of  God  will  be  es- 
tablished. There  must  have  been  a  tremendous  amount  of  faith  in  the 
hearts  of  those  men  and  women  associated  with  the  Church  in  early 
days,  when  a  little  handful  of  people  declared  that  they  were  connected 
with  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  and  that  it  would  prevail  in  the 
world.  To  the  world,  and  even  to  us  now,  it  looked  presumptuous. 
But  when  we  see  this  tremendous  concourse  of  people  on  this  block 
and  know  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  which  is  manifested  by 
the  people  in  all  of  this  mountain  country,  we  can  partly  see  the  fulfil- 
ment of  the  prophecy  of  the  early  leaders  of  the  Church,  and  it  does 
not  require  the  same  amount  of  faith,  it  seems  to  me.  But  there  is  op- 
portunity for  the  same  amount  of  work,  and  the  purposes  of  the  Lord 
will  be  accomplished  exactly  in  proportion  to  the  efforts  we  put  forth. 

I  pray  the  Lord  that  what  I  have  said  will  tend  to  strengthen  and 
stimulate  my  brethren  and  sisters  to  more  earnest  and  more  zealous 
works  in  helping  to  bring  about  the  blessings  of  the  Almighty.  May 
his  blessings  be  with  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

I  trust  that  you  have  gathered  the  spirit  of  the  remarks  made  by 
the  stake  presidents  to  whom  we  have  listened.  Remember,  this  is 
a  conference,  not  merely  an  ordinary  assembly.  You  are  entitled  to 
know  what  is  going  on  in  the  different  parts  of  the  Church.  Those 
who  were  in  this  building  this  morning  heard  reports  from  the  differ- 
ent mission  fields,  and  now  you  have  heard  of  some  of  the  peculiar 
conditions  prevailing  in  a  few  of  the  many  stakes  of  Zion,  four  out 
of  eighty-five  now  in  existence.  We  find  the  same  spirit  prevailing 
wherever  we  meet  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  found  that  to  be  true 
in  meeting  my  fellow  worshipers  in  this  country  and  beyond  the  seas. 
You  can  recognize  them  by  their  spirit,  by  their  manifestation  of 
feeling,  by  their  ways  and  manners.  There  is  a  sort  of  a  family  like- 
ness prevailing  among  Latter-day  Saints,  and  you  can  readily  recog- 
nize that  if  you  meet  one  who  is  a  stranger  to  you.  There  is  a  spirit 
of  earnestness  manifested  in  the  spirit  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  There 
is  a  spirit  of  awakening  at  this  time,  as  T  mentioned  at  the  beginning 
of  our  meeting,  and  the  remarks  of  my  brethren  have  borne  me  out. 
But,  thank  the  Lord,  his  Spirit  is  striving  earnestly  with  the  people. 
But  the  power  of  evil  is  likewise  aroused,  and  is  also  active  among 
the  people.  Satan  knows  how  little  time  is  left  before  that  day  which 
is  spoken  of  as  being  both  great  and  blessed,  and  likewise  terrible, 
which  shall  characterize  the  Coming  of  the  Lord  in  his  glory  to  take 


ELDER  SAMUEL  ECKERSLEY  85 

his  place  as  ruler  of  this  earth.  With  him  shall  come  concourses  of 
angels,  the  blessed  ones,  and  many  upon  the  earth  at  that  time  shall 
meet  him  and  his  goodly  company,  and  be  numbered  among  them. 
Verily,  that  day  is  near  at  hand.  The  evil  one  knows  it,  and  knows 
his  time  is  short,  and  therefore,  amidst  our  rejoicing  over  the  improve- 
ment that  is  manifest  among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  we  must  beware 
of  the  evil  powers  that  are  at  work,  that  we  may  not  be  led  away, 
that  our  children  may  not  be  led  away,  but  that  they  may  be  firm 
and  true  to  the  faith  which  the  Lord  has  implanted  in  their  hearts — 
the  faith  of  their  fathers. 

I  am  sure  that  all  will  join  me  in  the  feeling  of  appreciation, 
which  I  express  for  all,  to  the  choir  of  LeGrand  ward  for  the  music 
that  has  been  rendered  this  afternoon. 

The  choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Hark,  hark,  my  soul." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  Robinson. 


FOURTH  OVERFLOW  MEETING 

A  fourth  overflow  meeting  was  held  outdoors,  near  the  Bureau  of 
Information,  Sunday  afternoon  at  2  o'clock,  April  3,  1921. 

Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  presided. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the  congregation,  Elder  Clare  Reid  of  the 
L.  D.  S.  School  of  Music,  accompanist.  The  congregation  sang,  "High 
on  the  mountain  top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Oscar  Winkler. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  let  us  anew  our  journey  pursue." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ECKERSLEY 

{President  of  the  Wayne  Stake.) 

The  multitude  of  people  assembled  upon  this  Temple  Block  today 
is  an  evidence  of  the  continued  growth  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  in  the 
earth,  and  of  the  faith  of  the  membership  of  the  Church.  The  promise 
made  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  in  the  very  commencement  of  the 
work  that  he  was  called  by  the  Lord  to  establish  in  the  latter  clays,  was 
that  notwithstanding  the  persecution  and  the  opposition  that  should  be 
waged  against  the  cause  that  he  was  called  to  advocate  in  the  world, 
the  work  would  survive ;  that  the  Church  to  be  established  or  set 
up,  and  the  gospel  of  the  Kingdom  that  should  be  preached  in  the 
world  as  a  witness  before  the  coming  of  the  Messiah,  should  never  be 
overcome,  that  the  Church  to  be  established  should  never  be  given 
to  another  people.     When  we  think  of  the  combined  opposition  of 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  world  to  the  work  that  was  commenced  by  the  Prophet,  and  think 
that  notwithstanding  all  the  trials  and  vicissitudes  through  which  the 
Saints  passed  in  their  early  pilgrimage  in  the  Church,  notwithstanding 
the  opposition  of  the  world,  today  our  eyes  witness  upon  this 
Temple  Block  thousands  of  people,  who  have  assembled  from  the  re- 
motest parts  of  this  state,  from  surrounding  states,-  and  have  gathered 
here  to  worship  the  Lord,  in  evidence  that  there  is  still  faith  in  their 
hearts,  and  that  this  work  will  continue,  it  is  comforting,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  know  that  God  has  given  this  promise  that  if  we  are 
faithful  in  the  keeping  of  his  commandments,  all  things  that  have 
been  promised  and  foretold  by  the)  prophets  concerning  the  things  that 
should  happen  in  the  latter  days  will  be  fulfilled. 

I  rejoice  with  you  this  afternoon  to  be  present  at  this  confer- 
ence, to  associate  with  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  to  hear  the  living 
and  burning  testimony  of  the  prophets  and  the  apostles  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  to  mingle  with  the  men  and  women  who  have  received 
the  gospel  and  whose  hearts  are  filled  with  faith  and  whose  works 
testify  of  their  integrity  and  of  their  devotion. 

I  rejoice  that  the  principles  of  the  gospel  are  such  that  by  yield- 
ing obedience  thereto,  men  may  obtain  for  themselves  a  living  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  the  work  which  they  espouse.  The  promise 
of  Jesus  is  being  fulfilled  just  as  literally  today  as  in  the  day  when 
he  made  the  promise  to  the  people  in  Jerusalem,  that  if  any  man  would 
obey  the  doctrine  that  he  taught,  if  any  man  would  do  the  will  of  God, 
he  should  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  was  of  God,  or1  whether  he 
spoke  of  himself.  And  so  today,  the  person  who  receives  the  gospel 
in  a  good  and  honest  heart,  who  complies  with  its  precepts,  obtains  that 
living  testimony,  and  that  leads  to  good  works. 

I  recall  that  on  one  occasion  the  Prophet  Joseph  was  asked  con- 
cerning the  secret  of  his  success  as  a  leader  among  the  people,  in  hold- 
ing them  together,  and  his  reply  was  that  he  taught  the  people,  cor- 
rect principles,  and,  having  been  taught  correct  principles,  they  govern- 
ed themselves.  This  is  the  secret  of  the  growth  of  the  work  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  This  is  the  secret  of  the  faith,  the  unity,  and  the  prog- 
ress that  is  being  made  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  This  is  not  a  work 
of  coercion  or  of  compulsion.  The  words  of  the  poet  are  very  applica- 
ble in  the  doctrines  that  are  taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  God  will 
not  coerce  any  human  mind : 

Know  this,  that  ev'ry  soul  as  free, 

To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be; 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given, 

That  God  will  force  n,o  man  to  heaven. 

He'll  call,   persuade,   direct  aright, 
And  bless  with  wisdom,  love  and  light; 

In  nameless  ways  be  good  and  kind, 
But  never  force  the  human  mind. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  ECKERSLEY  87 

Freedom  and  reason  makes  us  men, 

Take  these  away,  what  are  we  then? 
Mere  animals,  and  just  as  well 

The  beasts  may  think  of  heaven  or  hell. 

And  thus  when  the  elders  go  forth  into  the  world  proclaiming  this 
message  of  truth,  they  plead  with  the  people  to  investigate,  to  search 
the  Scriptures,  for  in  them  is  the  truth.  In  them,  by  obedience  to  the 
principles  that  they  teach,  there  is  eternal  life.  There  is  no  coercion, 
there  is  no  attempt  to  frighten  the  people,  as  it  were,  into  a  belief  in 
the  principles  of  the  doctrines  of  the  Redeemer ;  but  it  is  a  doctrine  of 
love,  a  doctrine  of  persuasion,  leaving  to  mankind  their  agency,  the 
power  to  choose ;  and  so  we  receive  the  gospel  and  become  members 
of  the  Church.  That  same  principle  applies  throughout  our  lives.  We 
may,  by  obedience  to  the  principles  of  the  gospel,  one  by  one,  improve 
our  lives,  be  of  greater  service  to  mankind ;  but  there  is  never  at  any 
time  an  attempt  to  force  the  observance  of  any  law  that  God  has 
given  for  the  salvation  of  his  children. 

I  rejoice  in  the  freedom  and  in  the  liberty  of  the  gospel.  I  re- 
joice in  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed  and  restored.  I  rejoice  in 
the  knowledge  that  if  men  do  the  will  of  God,  they  for  themselves  shall 
know  of  its  truth,  and  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  men  speak  of 
themselves.  I  feel,  brethren  and  sisters,  this  afternoon,  that  we  have 
much  to  be  grateful  for  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ;  and  I 
pray  that  we  may  be  inclined  to  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
that  are  within  our  reach  to  grow  in  faith,  and  knowledge,  and  grow 
in  the  love  and  fellowship  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  and  in  the  fellow- 
ship and  love  of  all  good  people,  that  we  may  foe  faithful  and  true  to 
the  mission  that  has  been  entrusted  to  us — not  only  to  seek  to  save 
ourselves  and  our  own  immediate  families  and  kin,  but  that  we  may 
be  willing  to  make  sacrifice  in  the  interest  of  mankind,  that  we  may  be 
willing,  as  servants  commissioned  of  the  Lord,  to  go  forth  and  declare 
his  truth  and  preach  the  gospel  as  we  may  be  inspired,  as  we  are  called, 
from  time  to  time.  That  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  may  continue  with 
us,  and  that  we  may  manifest  our  gratitude  to  him  for  the  blessings 
that  we  enjoy  in  devotion  to  his  service,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  E.  FRANK  BIRCH 

(President  of  the  Tintic  Stake.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters.  It  is  with  a  feeling  of  timidity  and 
weakness  that  I  try  to  speak  to  you  this  afternoon,  but  with  the  help 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  I  may  be  able  to  say  something  edifying. 

I  endorse  heartily  the  remarks  of  the  former  speaker;  they  ex- 
press my  feelings  exactly.  I  have  felt  today  a  renewal  of  my  testi- 
mony that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  true ; 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

that  this  great  work,  the  Church  of  God,  has  been  established  never 
again  to  be  taken  from  the  earth  or  given  to  another  people. 

I  was  greatly  impressed  this  morning,  as  I  am  this  afternoon,  with 
the  large  attendance  at  this  conference,  and  with  the  realization  of  the 
power  and  strength  of  our  Church  organization  today.  I  thought  of 
the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  different  officers 
and  organizations  of  the  Church  today,  with  a  realization  of  the  power 
and  strength  they  are  in  the  earth. 

I  thought,  if  we  could  assume  that  the  Church,  as  we  have  it, 
were  man-made,  it  would  still  be  the  most  powerful  organization  in 
the  world  today.  Assuming  that  the  Master  were  not  the  organizer 
or  the  head,  that  it  were  a  man-made  institution,  even  then,  consider 
its  leadership.  President  Grant,  a  wonderful  leader,  a  man  of  great 
experience,  who  has  made  mistakes  in  life,  perhaps,  because  he  has 
done  things,  but  he  is  a  man  who  has  profited  by  his  mistakes,  and 
a  mighty  man  in  Israel  today!  Consider  his  counselors,  President 
Penrose,  a  man  of  great  experience,  a  practical  man,  a  man  who  has 
shared  the  joys  and  the  sorrows  of  the  people  for  many  years ;  and 
then  President  Ivins,  a  practical  man,  a  success  in  life,  both  temporally 
and  spiritually — an  agriculturist,  a  man  educated  in  many  of  the 
sciences  of  life — when  I  think  of  these  three  great  leaders,  for  my 
part,  under  any  condition,  I  would  be  willing  to  trust  the  Church. 
Then,  consider  their  associates,  the  members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve,  men  who  lead  in  the  world  of  affairs,  in  science,  as  statesmen, 
as  agriculturists,  as  educators — I  have  been  impressed  all  day  that 
for  my  part,  I  am  willing  to  trust  the  Church  in  their  care. 

When  we  further  consider  that  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  according  to  our  knowledge  and  testimony,  is  at  the  head,  that 
he  is  sanctioning  and  inspiring,  with  his  holy  Spirit,  their  actions,  I 
am  again  perfectly  satisfied  and  content  to  trust  the  affairs  of 'this 
Church  in  their  hands.  To  me,  a  man  or  a  woman  who  would  as- 
sume to  dictate,  who  would  assume  to  set  them  right,  would  be  ridicu- 
lous, would  appear  insignificant.  Yet,  we  have  such  characters  in 
the  Church  today,  who  attempt  to  do  that,  and  ask  God  Almighty  to 
inspire  them,  that  they  may  dictate  to  the  leaders  of  our  Church.  I 
say  we  have  them,  but  you  business  men,  you  men  of  affairs,  will 
agree  with  me  when  I  say  that  no  organization  can  exist  and  flourish 
if  subordinate  officers,  lay  members,  dictate  to  the  ruling  authority. 
I  am  a  man  in  charge  of  mines,  superintendents  and  foremen,  and  I 
have  learned  this,  that  when  a  shift  boss  undertakes  to  pass  over  the 
head  of  his  foreman  to  the  management  of  the  mine,  he  is  out  of 
order,  the  organization  is  immediately  in  confusion.  I  have  also 
learned  that  when  men  holding  the  high  positions  undertake  to  dic- 
tate over  the  heads  of  their  superintendents,  their  subordinate  officers, 
again  the  organization  is  in  confusion.  So  I  say  that  the  Church  is 
built  on  natural  principles,  business  principles;  and  no  man  should 


ELDER  E.  FRANK  BIRCH  39 

dictate  to  those  in  higher  authority,  nor  pass  over  the  heads  of  those 
who  are  their  immediate  superiors. 

I  have  said  before,  we  have  people  in  the  Church  who  undertake 
to  do  this,  and  I  believe  when  they  do,  there  is  confusion.  We  get, 
as  people  say,  our  wires  crossed ;  we  get  the  wrong  information ;  we 
get  "in  wrong;"  we  are  understood  wrong;  and  there  is  confusion. 
I  know  of  people,  and  have  had  recent  experiences  with  people,  who 
have  thought  that  they  could  go  into  the  solitude  of  the  deserts  and 
pray  unto  God  to  help  them  set  the  Church  right ;  who  have  thought 
that,  through  fasting  and  prayer,  they  could  set  the  Church  in  order, 
that  they  could  dictate.  Much  has  been  said  informing  us  that  every 
member  of  the  Church  should  have  a  testimony  of  his  own,  every 
man  stand  on  his  own  foundation,  that  every  man  should  receive  in- 
spiration to  the  extent  that  he  will  have  a  living  testimony  that  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  true.  Men  have  misinterpreted  that.  They 
have  taken  unto  themselves  the  thought  that  they  must  receive  di- 
rections, revelations,  from  the  higher  authority,  even  from  the 
Master,  as  to  the  dictation  of  his  affairs  on  earth.  And  they  have 
done  wrong.  They  have  caused  confusion,  and  they  have  not  ac- 
complished what  they  expected  to  accomplish.  As  I  say,  they  have 
undertaken  to  do  this,  and  so  misinterpreting  the  advice  that  has 
been  given  to  us  that  we  must  rest  on  our  own  testimony.  As  I  un- 
derstand it,  every  man  and  woman  is  entitled  to  inspiration  from  God 
Almighty  for  his  own  welfare,  or  the  welfare  of  the  thing  that  he 
may  immediately  control — I  would  say  a  father  in  his  home  is  en- 
titled to  inspiration  to  rear  his  family,  the  President  of  a  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  is  entitled  to  inspiration  to  lead  his  associa- 
tion. But  they  must  follow  the  standards  that  have  been  set  up  by  the 
General  Authorities! 

The  Prophet  Joseph  told  us  that  God  never  reveals  anything  that 
is  already  made  plain  and  revealed.  Therefore  we  have  plenty,  and 
we  may  go  to  our  superior  authorities  to  receive  the  same.  Men 
have  misunderstood  things  and  have  taken  it  that  they  themselves 
shall  receive  revelation  from  God  Almighty  to  lead  the  affairs  of  this 
Church;  and  when  they  do  this,  when  they  fast  and  when  they  pray, 
and  when  they  insist  on  revelations,  contrary  to  that  which  is  already 
revealed,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  forsakes  them  and  the  devil  crosses 
them  with  his  wires.  I  have  had  recent  experience  with  men  who 
were  deceived  and  who  thought  they  were  receiving  inspiration  from 
Almighty  God,  when  they  were  obtaining  it  from  an  evil  source.  These 
men  received  "revelations"  that  they  were  to  sacrifice  their  dear 
wives,  and  take  other  person's  wives — somebody  else  was  to  sacrifice 
theirs  to  them!  This  is  the  way  the  devil  does  things.  He  puts  men 
upon  pedestals,  and  when  he  gets  them  there,  he  kicks  them  out  from 
under  them,  and  then  they  lose  the  companionship  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  and  gain  the  friendship  of  the  devil. 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

I  do  not  feel  to  speak  any  longer;  but  never  before  in  my  life 
have  I  had  more  confidence  that  God  has  instituted  his  Church  in 
the  earth,  and  that  we  can  feel  at  ease  that  it  is  entrusted  in  good 
hands,  and  in  a  perfect  organization.  My  prayer  is  that  we  will  live 
according  to  the  inspiration  given  to  us  from  the  authorities  of  the 
Church  and  to  ourselves  from  the  Spirit  of  God  for  our  own  direction, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS 

(President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  of  Zion.) 

It  seems  a  long  time  since  1  undertook  to  speak  on  the  gospel, 
in  the  open  air.  I  remember  doing  so  some  years  ago  on  the  streets 
of  London,  as  well  as  in  Brooklyn.  Those  undertakings  were  some- 
what different  than  this.  One  very  great  difference  is  in  the  matter 
of  furnishing  the  music.  In  those  exciting  experiences,  I  attempted 
to  do  the  singing  and  received  no  assistance  from  the  listeners.  They 
came  to  see  what  was,  the  occasion  for  such  a  strange  and  distressing 
noise.  I  ceased  my  musical  efforts  at  the  first  stopping  place,  and 
started  to  preach  :to  them.  On  this  occasion  the  audience  does  the 
singing  and,  by  comparison,  I  am  a  very  grateful  and  happy  listener. 

Another  difference  was  the  probability  of  my  being  driven  from 
the  streets,  if  things  didn't  go  smoothly.  Here  there  is  small  prob- 
ability of  mob  violence  unless,  perchance,  one  speaks  unsufferably 
long,  in  which  case  no  one  can  tell  what  might  happen. 

In  looking  over  this  great  throng  of  people,  assembled  as  they 
are  upon  this  historical  square,  one  is  impressed  with  the  vast  area 
from  which  representatives  composing  this  audience  have  come.  I 
see  faces  that  are  familiar  to  me  in  the  remote  quarters  of  the  inter- 
mountain  country.  There  are  also  many  faces  of  those  who  live  close 
in.  This  might  well  be  called  a  "General  Conference"  because  every 
section  of  the  country  and  every  organization  of  ithe  Church  is  rep- 
resented in  the  Conference  proceedings. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  an  organiza- 
tion, is  just  ninety-one  years  old  this  year.  Consider  the  accomplish- 
ments during  that  period  of  time  and  pay  full  attention  to  the  obsta- 
cles and  handicaps  that  have  all  the  way  beset  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  you  will  recognize  a  demonstration  of  the  power  of  faith  unsur- 
passed in  history.  The  achievements!  of  this  people  in  the  field  of  so- 
cial and  industrial,  as  well  as  religious,  progress  are  well  recognized 
by  men  of  clear  vision  and  true  appreciation  for  the  things  of  real 
value  to  humanity.  These  men,  some  of  whom  stand  high  in  the 
affairs  of  the  nation,  as  well  as  in  the  world  of  education  and  social 
welfare  work,  are  frankly  expressing  their  admiration  for  the  ac- 
complishments of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  This  people  is  looked  upon 
as  a  very  essential  element  in  our  national  life,  and  in  some  respects 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS  91 

as  leaders  in  the  most  praiseworthy  of  undertakings.  For  one,  I  will 
admit  all  these  good  things  which  are  attributed  to  us. 

We  are  conspicuously  a  people  who  do  things.  We  may  have 
done  some  things  that  were  peculiar  and  not  understandable  to  the 
outsider.  We  may  have  done  some  foolish  things  in  the  many  vicis- 
situdes through  which  we  have  passed.  Aside  from  these  trivial  and 
inconsequential  things,  we  have  done  really  big  things  in  the  earth 
during  the  past  one  hundred  years.  The  first  great  accomplishment 
in  our  history,  in  Western  America,  is  that  of  coming  here  and  mak- 
ing a  "go"  of  it  in  this  once  undesirable  country.  That  a  mighty 
empire  should  arise  in  the  vales  of  the  Rocky  mountains,  teeming  to- 
day with  their  millions  of  people  and  bounteous  crops  and  products, 
where  three-quarters  of  a  century  ago  a  desolate  wilderness  held 
sway,  is  an  achievement  well-nigh  bordering  on  the  marvelous.  To 
have  been  the  means  of  such  an  accomplishment  is  glory  enough 
for  any  people.  This  is  a  very  great  distinction  won  by  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  And  time  will  only  throw  this  achievement  out  in 
more  imposing  boldness  as  \ distance  and  opportunity  for  comparison 
are  given  by  the  improved  perspective. 

This  is  another  instance  of  great  things  being  accomplished  under 
the  stress  and  strain  of  a  tragic  necessity.  Men  seldom  do  very 
great  things  voluntarily.  Circumstances  sometimes  compel  '.them  to 
action  and  the  impossible  is  often  accomplished.  Had  not  our  neigh- 
bors in  Missouri  and  Illinois  made  life  intolerable  to  us  we  would 
have  remained  among  them  to  this  day.  Had  not  the  sharp  and  in- 
cisive argument  of  thebayonet  and  the  musket  been  resorted  to  this 
great  western  country  would  have  been  peopled  by  others,  and  in  a 
very  different  manner  than  that  which  has  occured.  )  "We  came 
here  willingly  because  we  had  to,"  said  one  naive  pioneer,  and  I  may 
add,  we  remained  jhere  because  there  was  no  other  place  for  us  to  go 
to.  Our  erstwhile  "enemies"  were  rapidly  migrating  to  the  Pacific, 
and  settlement  along  the  coast  would  have  me^nt  continued  con- 
flict. So  we  remained  here,  because  we  had  to.  In  so  doing  we 
worked  out  our  own  destiny,  and,  in  my  candid  judgment,  made  the 
greatest  single  contribution  to  our  national  wealth  and  well-being  it 
will  be  the  destiny  of  any  other  people,  to  make.  For  an  event  that 
compares  in  importance  to  humanity  and  this  nation,  we  shall  have 
to  go  back  to  the  Pilgrims  and  the  Puritans  of  three  centuries  ago. 
Their  motives  and  service  to  mankind  are  in  many  respects  very  sim- 
ilar, to  those  of  the  "Mormon"  pioneers.  The  latter,  however,  saw 
the  fruits  of  their  sacrificing  efforts  because  they  accomplished  more 
in  a  shorter  period  of  time. 

This  morning  we  heard  President  Grant  express  his  supreme 
pleasure  over  the  cordial  and  hearty  reception  given  him  at  Kansas 
City,  while  there  last  December,  addressing  a  prominent  and  influ- 
ential club  of  busines  men  who  had  invited  him,  as  the  head  of  the 
"Mormon"   Church  to  become  their  guest  at  a  banquet  and   recep- 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

tion.  He  was  asked  to  speak  on  the  accomplishments  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" people.  In  doing  so,  he  recounted  the  events  which  led  to  the 
expulsion  of  our  people  from  the  state  in  which  he  was_  then  ad- 
dressing a  great  business  organization.  He  told  of  the  industrial, 
social,  educational  and  religious  attainments  of  our  people.  His  re- 
marks were  so  well  and  favorably  received  by  the  four  hundred 
leading  business  men  who  composed  the  club,  that  many  words  of 
sincere  commendation  were  expressed  for  him  and  his  people.^  He 
was  strongly  urged  to  come  again  and  address  them  on  another  oc- 
casion. 

This  welcome  reception  was  in  such  remarkable  contrast  with  the 
feelings  manifest  toward  the  Latter-day  Saints  some  seventy-five 
years  ago  that  President  Grant  was  profoundly  impressed  with  the 
change  of  attitude  toward  us.  While  we  need  not  solace  ourselves 
in  the  comforting  thought  that  the.  world  at  large  loves  us,  it  is  high- 
ly gratifying  to  know  that  people  of  dignified  positions  in  the  coun- 
try have  the  vision  to  see  our  good  works  and  the  candor  to  admit 
it.  If  they  do  not  glorify  God  for  these  things,  we  do  with  all  our 
souls.  It  was  the  Savior  who  said  to  his  disciples :  "Let  your  light 
so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and  glorify 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven."  .  In  the  light  of  these  attainments, 
may  we  not  all  be  profoundly  grateful  that  the  Lord  has  blessed  our 
efforts  and  is  beginning  to  magnify  us  before  the  world? 

Greater  than  the  subduing  of  the  desert  and  the  building  of  a 
mighty  empire,  is  the  fact  that  this  people  has  been  true  to  God  and 
has  kept  his  commandments  with  remarkable  fidelity.  I  wonder  if 
the  spirit  of  optimism  is  running  away  with  me  when  I  think  I  see 
in  these  events  the  prophecy,  in  course  of  fulfilment,  wherein  it 
was  foretold  that  Zion  would  be  as  a  light  set  upon  a  hilltop  that 
could  not  be  hidden.  I  have  in  mind  the  special  work  of  the  Lord 
and  his  Church,  not  the  great  land  of  America  and  its  mission  and 
glorious  destiny.  Perhaps  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  already  moving 
toward  their  place  in  the  world.  Their  place  is  in  the  front  ranks  of 
humanity,  or  I  have  mistaken  the  destiny  of  this  thing  called  "Mor- 
monism." 

It  required  greater  time  for  the  world  to  arrive  at  a  true  ap- 
preciation of  the  Lord  and  his  work  in  a  'former  dispensation  than 
has  elapsed  since  he  set  up  his  Church  in  this  dispensation.  When 
Jesus  came  to  earth  he  was  rejected  and  despised  of  men.  His  dis- 
ciples were  put  to  death  with  pagan  hate  and  fury.  Generations 
passed  and  the  Lord  was  more  generally  understood.  Then  he  be- 
came enshrined  in  the  hearts  of  humanity.  His  disciples  were  con- 
sumed by  the  devouring  flames  of  martyrdom,  and  torn  limb  from 
limb  by  wild  beasts  in  the  amphitheatres  of  ancient  Rome  and 
Ephesus.  Yet  a  few  centuries  run  their  course,  and  these  same  fol- 
lowers of  their  crucified  Lord,  are  denominated  Saints,  and  shrines 
and  sacred  temples  are  hallowed  by  their  names,     History  is  full  of 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS  93 

such  anolmalies  and  paradoxical  reversals  of  sentiment.  Such  things 
occurred  with  respect  to  the  Former-day  Saints.  It  will  be  so  with 
respect  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Diid  not  Josiah  Quincy  make  that 
very  prediction  in  the  year  1844,  with  respect  to'  the  future  position 
of  Joseph  Smith  in  History?    Read  his  words: 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  text-book,  for  the  use 
of  generations  yet  unborn,  will  contain  a  question  something  like  this:  What 
historical  American  of  the  Nineteenth  century  has  exerted  the  most  power- 
ful influence  upon  the  destinies  of  his  countrymen?  And  it  is  by  no  means 
impossible  that  the  answer  to  that  interrogatory  may  be  thus  written:  lo- 
seph  Smith,  the  'Mormon'  Prophet.  And  the  reply,  absurd  as  it  doubt- 
less seems  to  most  men  now  living,  may  be  an  obvious  common-place  to 
their  descendants.  History  abounds  in  surprises  and  paradoxes  quite  as 
startling  as  this.  The  man  who  established  a  religion  in  this  age  of  free  de- 
bate, who  was  and  is  accepted  by  hundreds  of  thousands  as  a  direct  emissary 
-of  the  Most  High — such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  be  disposed  of  by 
pelting  his  memory  with  unsavory  epithets." 

Time  will  work  just  such  changes  as  here  suggested.  It  was 
exactly  so  with  respect  to  the  discovery  of  America.  One  historian 
has  very  cleverly  put  it  thus :  "America  was  never  sought,  but  stum- 
bled upon ;  that  when  found  it  was  not  wanted ;  that  much  of  its  ex- 
ploration was  due  to  a  persistent  effort  to  find  a  way  around  it."  To- 
day it  is  the  hope  of  the  world. 

History  again  repeated  itself  with  respect  to  this  Rocky  Moun- 
tain region.  No  less  authorities  than  Daniel  Webster,  and  Senator 
Dickerson  of  New  Jersey,  placed  so  low  an  appraisement  on  this 
whole  region  of  country  that  the  one  would  not  vote  one  cent  from 
the  public  treasury  to  place  the  Pacific  Coast  one  inch  nearer  to 
Boston ;  and  the  other  said  the  great  northwest  would  never  be  ad- 
mitted into  the  Union  because  of  its  remoteness  from  the  seat  of 
government.  To  one  it  was  the  worthless  wilderness  of  the  west,  to 
the  other  it  was  damned  by  distance.  Today  the  world  may  see  what 
misconceptions  men  had  on  the  matter.  And  precisely  in  the  same 
manner  have  these  two  great  movements  that  of  the  Pilgrims  and 
that  of  the  "Mormon"  pioneers  been  underestimated.  When  the 
Pilgrims  and  the  Puritans  left  the  shores  of  Europe  in  quest  of  a 
land  where  religious  and  political  freedom  might  be  enjoyed  by  them 
and  their  children  after  them,  a  bigotted  and  stupidly  blind  and  self- 
satisfied  world  said,  "good  riddance  for  bad  rubbish."  So  was  it 
in  the  states  of  Missouri  and  Illinois,  with  respect  to  the  "Mormon" 
people.  About  the  only  difference  was  that  the  thumb-screw  and 
the  rack  were  substituted  with  the  violence  of  mobs  and  the  orders 
of  extermination  issued  by  governors.  Now  the  Pilgrims  are  held  in 
veneration,  and  Americans  are  proud  to  trace  their  descent  from 
those  European  outcasts  of  three  centuries  ago.  With  the  steady 
movement  of  the  "Mormon"  people  to  their  place  in  the  world  what 
will  be  the  verdict  of,  perhaps,  the  very  next  generation?     My  faith 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

is  that  vindication  will  completely  come  to  them  if  they  hold  fast  to 
their  professions  and  ideals. 

Already  the  very  states  that  expatriated  our  first  leaders  have 
evinced  a  desire  to  have  us  return  to  those  commonwealths  and  con- 
tribute to  their  upbuilding.  The  Latter-day  Saints.,  have  proved  them- 
selves to  be  very  successful  empire  builders.  That  great  quality  grows 
out  of  their  belief  in  the  family  and  the  home,  the  sacred  trinity  of 
civilization — the  father,  mother  and  child.  They,  like  the  Pilgrims 
and  Puritans,  were  home-builders.  All  things  come  from  the  home. 
That  was  the  great  factor  of  success  in  both  colonizations,  those  of 
1620  and  those  of  1847. 

I  well  remember  sitting  in  the  east  end  of  the  Tabernacle  gal- 
lery with  the  late  Elbert  Hubbard — he  of  the  Philistine  and  East 
Aurora  fame.  He  said,  "Brother  Morris,  you  people  beat  Denver, 
didn't  you?"  A  little  slow  to  grasp  the  philosophy  of  his  observa- 
tion, I  replied,  "No,  Denver  has  nearly  twice  our  population."  Then 
came  his  answer  to  which  I  quickly  assented :  "They  borrowed  their 
wealth,  you  dug  it  out  of  the  ground."  Man,  soil,  labor — the  agencies 
of  creation.  Freedom  and  the  home  are  the  agencies  of  human  prog- 
ress. A  steadfast  devotion  to  these  same  principles,  along  with  in- 
dustry, education,  and  true  religion,  are  certain  to  lift  a  people  to  an 
exalted  place  in  the  world.  And  on  the  other  hand  that  nation  or 
people  that  turns  against  these  things,  the  home,  labor,  education,  re- 
ligion, and  human  liberty,  will  rapidly  sink  into  an  ignominious 
oblivion.  This  great  truth,  affirmed  a  thousand  times  in  history,  is 
the  real  philosophy  of  history,  as  I  see  it.  Where  is  Egypt?  Baby- 
lon? Nineveh?  Greece  and  Rome?  Where  is  ancient  Israel?  A 
melancholy  whisper  from  the  dust.  The  winds  of  time  have  blown 
them  all  away.  Because  the  -agencies  of  their  progress  and  eleva- 
tion to  splendor  and  glory  were  thrown  away  at  the  acme  of  their 
achievements.  What  a  tragedy  is  the  death  of  a  nation.  Yet,  that 
the  race  might  survive,  these  tottering  empires,  full  ripe  to  destruc- 
tion, must  crumble  into  dust.     I  am  reminded  of  the  lines  of  Byron : 

There  is  the  moral  of  all  human  tales; 

'Tis  but  the  same  rehearsal  of  the  past. 
First  Freedom  and  then  Glory — when  that  fails, 

Wealth,  vice,  corruption — barbarism  at  last. 

And  History,  with  all  her  volumes  vast, 
Hath  but  one  page. 

May  not  a  people  some  day  learn  these  great  truths  from  history 
and  avoid  the  pit-falls  that  have  completely  engulfed  and  swallowed 
up  all  there  was  of  national  g'lory  in  the  past?  May  not  some  nation 
ultimately  learn  the  lesson  of  life  and  perpetuity  in  the  earth?  These 
questions  lie  close  to  the  hearts  of  the  Latter-day  Sains  because  of  a 
belief  they  have  in  their  destiny  and  enduring  mission  in  the  earth. 
They  believe  they  represent  the  Kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  which 
Kingdom  "is  never  to  be  thrown  down  or  given  to  another  people." 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS  95 

Other  peoples  have  held  similar  views  with  respect  to  their  high 
destiny.  The  ancient  Jews  were  fondly  looking  forward  to  the 
coming  of  their  Messiah.  They  believed  that  his  coming  meant  the 
elevation  of  their  race  to  world  supremacy.  But  when  he;  did  humbly 
come  they  knew  him  not.  Even  the  gentile  governor  evinced  more 
faith  in  him  than  did  they.  For  Pilate  pleaded  his  cause  against  the 
Jews  themselves.  Said  he,  "Whom  will  ye  that  I  release  unto  you, 
ilarabas  or  Jesus?''  And  they  yielded  to  the  demands  of  the  rabble 
and  cried,  "Release  unto  us  Barabas!  As  for  Jesus,  crucify,  him, 
crucify  him:!"  Pilate  remonstrated  with  them,  saying,  "What  evil 
has  he  done  ?'"  But  they  cried  the  more,  "Let  him  be  crucified !" 
Then  the  Pagan  magistrate,  or  governor,  said,  "I  am  innocent  of  the 
blood  of  this  just  man."  And  the  answer  came  back,  "Let  his  blood 
be  upon  us,  and  our  children  after  us,  release  unto  us  Barabas!"  So 
sealed  they  their  doom.  History  has  but  one  page  for  Judah  from 
then  till  now.  "The  wandering  Jew."  A  man  without  a  country;  a 
hiss  and  a  by-word  among  men.  Jewish  blood  has  drenched  the  soil 
of  every  European  and  Asiatic  country  during  the  two-thousand  in- 
tervening years. 

The  Jews  are  still  in  darkness  with  respect  to  their  .Messiah.  His 
message  was  turned  to  the  Gentile  nations  and  blindnes  was  given  to 
Judah  for  a  season.  "The  last  shall  be  first  and  the  first  shall  be 
last."  Centuries  past,  and  the  Gentle  nations  perceived  the  appeal 
of  his  message  and  turned  to  him.  Then  as  Europe  emerged  from 
the  darkness  of  the  "night  time  in  history"  great  churches  arose 
in  the  earth  and  built  temples  for  his  worship.  Empires  are  over- 
thrown, in  his  name ;  continents  are  reclaimed  from;  heathenism  for 
his  glory ;  and  for  generations  he  has  been  held  in  his  place  as  the 
Savior  and  Redeemer  of  men.  Time  brought  about  the  change.  Truth 
and  principle  won  the  inevitable  victory.  It  must  always  be  so-.  It 
will  be  so  in  the  future.  The  conquest  of  truth  is  eternal.  He 
who  was  rejected  and  despised  of  men  becomes  the  chief  corner 
stone.  Ultimately  every  knee  shall  bow  and  every  tongue  voluntarily 
confess  the  Kingship  and  Messiaship  of  the  Man  of  Sorrows,  who 
was  crucified  between  two  thieves  on  Golgotha's  hill.  But  before 
that  day  shall  come  the  Jews  will  be  gathered  in  unbelief.  In  a  most 
remarkable  manner  that  gathering  has  already  commenced,  as  one 
of  the  outcomes  of  the  great  war.  Jerusalem  is  being  redeemed 
from  the  mercilessness  of  Gentile  rule  under  the  unspeakable  Turk, 
whose  rule  has  well-nigh  been  supreme  and  continuous  for  a  thous- 
and years.  The  gates  of  the  Ancient  City  are  now  thrown  wide  open 
to  the  children  of  the  patriarchs  of  old,  and  a  remarkable  migration 
has  already  set  in  for  that  place.  The  City  of  David  will  be  re- 
stored to  beauty,  and  the  country  will  again  flow  as  with  milk  and 
honey.  Then  will  the  gospel  be  taken  to  them,  and  a  partial  con- 
version, at  least,  will  be  brought  about  as  they  cry  out,  "Blessed  is  he 
that  cometh  in  the  name  of  the  Lord."     Not  until  that  conversion  is 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

brought  about  will  they  "look  upon  Him  whom  they  have  pierced," 
and  ask,  "What  are  these  wounds  in  thine  hands?"  To  which  the 
answer  shall  be,  "These  are  the  wounds  I  received  in  the  house  of 
my  friends ;  I  came  to  my  own,  and  they  received  me  not."  Their 
poignant  anguish  will  then  draw  forth  his  divine  compassion  and  he 
will  be  their  God  and  they  will  be  his  people.  But,  O  what  a  price 
shall  they  have  paid  for  their  perversity  and  unbelief. 

The  history  of  Israel  is,  in  a  measure,  the  history  of  all  other 
races.  But  shall  there  not  ultimately  he  an  exception  to  the  rule?  In 
the  light  of  history,  there  is  little  ground  for  basing  such  a  hope,  we 
admit.  But  the  word  of  the  Lord  has  been  spoken  concerning  his 
people  and  his  purposes.  If  the  end  is  attained,  it  will  be  by  the 
simple  means  of  virtue,  obedience,  industry,  and  human  service  of 
the  highest  order.  The  Lord  has  assured  the  salvation  of  the  earth  at 
his  coming,  providing  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  shall  be 
turned  to  the  eternal  welfare  of  their  fellows,  both  'those  who  have 
gone  before  and  those  who  are  to  come,  when  men  shall  seek  the  well 
being  of  their  fellows  and  bury  selfishness.  But  the  thing  of  vital 
interest  to  us  is,  how  shall  we  avert  the  disasters  that  have  been  the 
fate  of  other  people?  The  lesson  seems  to  be  obvious.  Our  people 
were  taken  through  a  school  of  experience  that  ought  to  make  the 
lesson  a  lasting  one.  It  has  been  written  in  blood  and  tears  and  in 
sacrifice  and  patience.  The  school  of  experience  is  calculated  to  make 
men  strong  and  powerful  to  resist. 

Emerson  set  forth  this  doctrine  perfectly  in  the  four  lines 
which  opens  his  essay  on  Self  Trust.     They  are : 

"Cast  the  bantling  on  the  rocks, 

Suckle  him  with  she  wolf's  teat; 
Wintered  with  the  hawk  and  fox, 

Power  and  speed  be  hands  and  feet." 

Men  grow  strong  and  powerful  as  they  learn  to  do  things  for 
themselves.  The  administration  at  Washington  seemed5  cold  and 
unsympathetic  in  its  answers  to  our  appeal  for  help  when  it  said, 
"Your  cause  is  just,  but  I  can  do  nothing  for  you."  Yet  that  is 
similar  to  the  attitude  of  the  Creator,  out  on  the  border  of  time, 
when  he  drove  man  from  the  Garden  of  Eden  and  seti  him  to  work  in 
the  spirit  of  self  reliance  and  conquest.  The  fiat  of  Eden,  "Go  forth 
and  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth,  conquer  it,  and  subdue  it  rind 
have  dominion,"  as  well  as  the  sentence  which  soon  followed  it,  vis: 
"In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou  eat  thy  bread,"  seemed  very 
severe  and  harsh.  Time  and  accomplishment  have  taught  men  that 
those  were  kind  words,  in  the  light  of  the  blessings  which  came  from 
the  results  of  their  being  chosen  by  the  Deity  for  the  training  of  the 
human  race  in  the  beginning.  And  that  there  might  be  no  retreat 
back  into  Eden's  Elysian  bowers,  a  Cherubim,  with  flaming  sword, 
was  placed  at  the  Gates  of  Paradise.  So,  God  apparently  intended 
that  we  should  he  outside  of  Paradise.     None  of  us  will  doubt  the 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS  97 

successfulness  of  the  Deity,  in  that  intention,  and  in  a  wholesome 
confession  we  will  also  admit  that  to  the  healthy,  virile  man,  con- 
ditions subsequent  to  Eden  were  far  better  for  man  than  Eden  it- 
self.   His  progress  was  all  attained  on  this  side  of  Paradise. 

These  are  the  things  which  account  for  the  greatness  of  the 
Pioneers.  But  shall  wealth,  and  luxury,  and  self-indulgenence  ef- 
feminize  their  descendants  who  have,  in  a  large  measure,  been  de- 
prived of  that  kind  of  education?  Already  there  are  disquieting  symp- 
toms manifest  in  the  present  generation.  To  be  like  the  rest  of  the 
world  would  be  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  a  lowering  of  their  stand- 
ards and  a  repudiation  of  their  ideals.  Young  men  and  young  women 
of  "Mormondom"  we  have  been  taught  the  principles  of  Everlasting 
Truth.  And  they  will  stand  for  ever.  If  we  wish  to  stand  likewise, 
we  must  grapple  to  our  souls  these  true  principles.  They  are,  faith 
in  God,  and  obedience  to  the  gospel.  No  amount  of  learning,  or  phil- 
osophy, can  take  their  place.  Constant  repentance  from  sin,  and  a 
successful  forsaking  of  sin.  Can  a  man  take  fire  to  his  bosom  and 
not  be  burned?  The  youth  of  today  who  takes  a  compromising  view 
on  the  matter  of  chastity  is  playing  with  fire.  Nothing  but  the  prov- 
idences of  God  will  save  him  from  the  burning.  We  must  cherish 
virtue  as  dearer  than  life,  or  we  are  not  true  to  the  faith  of  our 
fathers.  We  cannot  retain  that  beautiful,  Christian  spirit,  which  is 
strength  unto  victory,  if  we  cease  to  be  a  praying  people — a  people 
who  pray  always,  in  public  and  in  private.  "Prayer  is  the  Christian's 
vital  breath."  I  have  heard  groups  of  boys,  and  girls  of  our  faith  con- 
fess their  abandonment  of  some  of  these  Christian  virtues  which  are 
so  essential  to  their  happiness  here  and  hereafter. 

We  should  hold  to  the  sanctity  of  the  marriage  relationship  and 
not  shun  the  responsibilities  of  parenthood.  In  this  sacred  institu- 
tion, ordained  of  God  and  honorable  withal,  lies  the  power  of  life 
and  death  to  the  individual,  as  well  as  to  the  race.  Its  preservation, 
in  unsullied  purity,  is  the  supreme  duty  of  every  generation.  Lives  of 
self-Ttstir'aint,  and  temperance  in  all  things  are  not  only  true  as  the 
word  of  God  to  us,  but  the  fate  of  races  proclaims  them  to  be 
everlastingly  safe.  Service  for  others  is  the  highest  evidence  of  the 
love  of  God.  What  a  fine  tribute  was  paid  to  our  people  this  morn- 
ing in  the  statement  by  President  Grant  that  we  annually  coin- 
tribute  by  sacrifice,  and  actual  expenditure,  two  million  dollars  in 
carrying  the  gospel  message  to  the  world.  There  is  real  altruism.  The 
preaching  of  the  word  to  the  world  is  a  great  duty  resting  upon  us, 
but  a  still  greater  duty  is  to  inculcate  the  principles  of  the  Faith  in 
the  lives  and  characters  of  our  children.  I  am  convinced  there  is 
occasion  for  concern  in  this  regard.  It  is  my  strong  conviction  that 
the  outlines  for  every  class,  studying  the  gospel  in  the  several 
organizations  of  the  Church,  should  pay  attention  to  the  principles 
of  our  faith  in  every  lesson  recital.  I  find  that  children,  at  the  time  of 
baptism,  are  in  many  instances,  entirely  uninstructed  in  the  mean- 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

ing  and  sacredness  of  that  holy  ordinance.  These  are  some  of  the 
disquieting  symptoms  that  my  work  in  the  Church  is  constantly 
bringing  to  my  attention.  I  throw  out  these  suggestions  in  the  hope 
that  the  family  and  the  priesthood  and  the  auxiliary  organizations  of 
the  Church  will  see  to  it  that  the  Savior's  parting  injunction  to  Peter 
may  be  carried  out  in  this  dispensation,  viz:  "Feed  my  lambs." 

May  the  Lord  God  of  our  fathers  keep  us  in  his  good  favor,  and 
may  we,  through  steadfast  devotion  to  him,  move  steadily  on  to  our 
place  in  the  world,  not  that  we  may  glorify  ourselves,  but  do  greater 
service  to  mankind,  and  glorify  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven.  In 
Jesus'  holy  n?me  I  ask  it.  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Surely  time  has  been  kind  to  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have  be- 
lieved always  that  time  is  on  the  side  of  right  and  truth ;  and  those 
who  hold  the  truth,  though  misunderstood,  can  rest  contented  that 
time  will  vindicate  them. 

I  remember  an  experience  in  preaching  to  the  public  in  the  open, 

THE  KEOKUK  DAM   FORETOLD  BY  JOSEPH  THE  PROPHET. 

I  remember  an  experience  in  preaching  to  the  public  in  the  open, 
when  my  soul  was  thrilled  with  the  evidence  that  God  was  vindicating 
his  work.  It  was  during  the  course  of  some  of  my  early  missionary  ex- 
periences, I  was  permitted  to  visit  Nauvoo,  Illinois.  It  was  on  the  oc- 
casion when  there  was  a  gathering  of  the  Military  Tract  Press  Associa- 
tion, being  the  newspaper  men  of  the  western  part  of  the  state  of  Illi- 
nois, who  met  in  Nauvoo.  They  were  wearing  a  badge,  upon  which  was 
a  cut  of  the  Nauvoo  Temple,  and  a  description  of  that  house. 

I  listened  to  a  paper  read  by  one  of  the  editors.  He  traced  the 
gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  Nauvoo,  from  other  sections,  told 
of  the  rise  of  the  work  in  that  city,  the  building  of  the  city  until  it 
became  a  city  of  considerable  note,  there  being  twenty  thousand  people 
in  the  city  of  Nauvoo  when  Chicago,  on  the  north,  was  but  a  village, 
and  St.  Louis,  on  the  south,  a  trading  post ;  and  Nauvoo,  he  said,  might 
have  been  the  great  city  of  the  Middle  West  if  the  "Mormons"  had  been 
allowed  to  remain  there.  He  told  of  the  prophet's  plan  to  cut  a  canal 
across  the  horseshoe  bend  of  the  river  and  make  the  lower  portion  of 
that  city  into  a  splendid  commercial  center,  with  the  residences  and 
public  buildings  upon  the  hill,  and  the  farms  extending  onto  the  prairies 
around  it.  He  also  called  attention  to  the  prophet's  project  in  a  peti- 
tion which  he  sent  to  Congress,  asking  that  Congress  should  erect  a 
dam  at  Keokuk,  Iowa,  to  back  up  the  waters  of  the  Mississippi  river 
over  what  was  known  as  the  Rapids,  and  that  by  reason  of  the  construc- 
tion of  the  dam,  greater  water  power  would  be  developed,  and  locks 
could  be  installed  that  would  enable  boats  to  go  over  the  rapids.  The 
prophet  estimated,  in  his  petition  to  Congress,  that  the  dam  would  cost 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  99 

approximately  $7,000,000.  And  then  the  gentleman  called  attention  to 
the  recent  completion  of  the  dam  at  the  identical  site  where  the  prophet 
forecast  it.  And  later  I  had  the  privilege  of  going  down  and  inspecting 
the  dam,  wonderfully  built,  at  the  very  place,  for  the  purpose  of  furnish- 
ing the  locks  that  would  lift  the  boats  up  into  the  higher  water  to  pass 
over  the  rapids.  And  tremendous  electric  power,  power  which  the 
prophet  could  only  have  forecast  by  inspiration,  was  there  developed 
and  disseminated  in  a  radius  of  400  miles  away  from  that  great  power 
site  that  now  is  established  in  connection  with  the  dam  at  Keokuk — 
and,  strange  to  say,  also,  the  cost  of  construction  was  but  slightly  in 
excess  of  $7,000,000. 

THE   LATTER-DAY  SAINTS   DRIVEN   FROM    NAUVOO. 

After  reciting  the  prospects  that  were  before  early  Nauvoo,  he 
then  told  of  the  prejudices  that  drove  the  "Mormons"  from  that  dis- 
trict, and  that  after  they  were  driven  away,  those  who  came  in  pos- 
session of  their  property  did  not  esteem  it  of  sufficient  value  to  protect 
the  central  building,  Nauvoo  Temple,  and  through  their  vandalism,  they 
set  fire  to  it.  ' 

But  I  thought  I  saw  the  hand  of  the  Lord  in  this,  and  how  that  he 
has  always  made  the  wrath  of  man  serve  him.  I  felt  grateful  in  my 
heart  that  the  Nauvoo  temple  was  destroyed,  for,  unlike  its  predecessor, 
the  Kirtland  temple,  it  was  built  for  the  sacred  ordinances  of  the  work 
of  the  house  of  God,  while  the  Kirtland  temple  was  built  as  a  place 
where  these  sacred  things  might  be  revealed.  There  was  no  vestige  of 
any  of  the  interior  of  the  Nauvoo  temple  left.  But,  he  said,  while  the 
blackened  walls  of  the  building  yet  stood,  steamboats  stopped  half 
a  day  at  the  wharf  to  allow  passengers  to  go  up  and  view  the  ruins. 
He  remarked  that  if  the  building  had  been  preserved,  it  would  have 
been  of  great  value  to  that  city.  He  then  called  attention  to  the  fact 
that  the  city  had  gone  down  in  numbers  from  its  once  beautiful 
Nauvoo  of  20,000  people  to  1,200  souls,  and  not  a  railroad  yet. 

THEIR  JOURNEY  WEST TWO  SCENES  COMPARED. 

And  then  he  traced  the  Latter-day  Saints  across  the  prairies  of 
Iowa  into  the  fastnesses  of  these  mountains,  where,  he  said,  wherever 
they  went,  the  favor  of  God  seemed  to  go  with  them.  They  made 
the  wilderness  to  blossom  as  the  rose ;  and  while  their  enemies  thought 
they  would  perish  in  the  barren,  desolate  wilderness,  or  be  destroyed 
by  savages  or  wild  beasts,  yet  they  survived  and  prospered  and 
flourished. 

Then  he  said,  when  we  look  at  these  two  scenes,  surely  we  are  forced 
to  conclude  that  there  was  grave  doubt  as  to  whether  God  wanted  the 
"Mormons"  driven  away.  "If  he  did  want  them  driven  away,"  he 
observed,  "why  doesn't  he  give  today's  Nauvoo  a  broader  hint  that  it 
was  all  right.    Maybe,"  said  he,  "God  loved  the  'Mormons'  better  than 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

he  does  bigots  and  vandals."  I  heard  that  statement  in  the  city  of 
Nauvoo;  and  in  conversation  with  many  of  these  gentlemen,  they 
said  that  the  only  hope  of  that  country  was  to  have  the  "Mormons" 
return  again,  and  there  wasn't  anything  in  the  way  of  our  coming  back ; 
and  in  my  heart,  I  am  sure  I  express  the  sentiment  of  President  Grant 
and  the  other  brethren  who  have  referred  to  our  history  and  expe- 
riences in  those  states  that  we  have  no  feeling  of  animosity  nor  bitter- 
ness in  our  souls.  We  pity  them,  we  sorrow  for  their  mistakes,  and 
they  today  are  the  losers,  while,  as  Elder  Morris  has  said,  we  have 
profited  by  their  action. 

DECLARING   THE   GOSPEL   IN   THE    ILLINOIS    STATE    CAPITOL. 

I  remember  going  from  Nauvoo  over  to  the  capitol  of  the  state, 
Springfield,  Illinois,  and  holding  a  conference  of  missionaries  from 
northern  and  southern  Illinois.  And  I  remember  that  two  of  us,  myself 
and  companion,  who  had  charge  of  these  two  districts,  applied  to  the 
governor  of  the  state.  It  was  considerable  nerve,  I  will  grant  you ; 
but  in  my  youth  I  was  zealous  and  was  willing  to  ask  for  anything — 
and  we  had  the  nerve  to  ask  the  governor  of  the  state  of  Illinois  to  give 
us  the  State  Capitol  building  in  which  to  hold  a  "Mormon"  conference. 
Well,  he  happily  surprised  us  by  granting  us  the  privilege,  and  that 
without  a  dollar's  cost  to  us.  We  were  permitted  to  use  the  Hall  of 
Representatives;  and  before  large  numbers  of  people,  who  filled 
that  hall,  we  discoursed  upon  the  principles  of  the  glorious,  restored  gos- 
pel and  bore  witness  and  testimony  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  true.  My  soul  was  thrilled, 
because,  I  remember,  as  I  looked  about  that  place  and  saw  on  the  one 
side  of  the  rostrum  a  life-sized  portrait,  full  length,  of  Abraham  Lin- 
coln and  on  the'  other  side  a  life-sized  portrait  of  Stephen  A.  Douglas, 
I  could  not  help  but  wonder  in  my  soul,  What  does  Stephen  think  about 
it  now?  For  it  was  in  this  identical  place  that  Stephen  A.  Douglas 
delivered  his  address  on  the  "Mormon"  question,  while  running  for  the 
Presidency  of  the  nation,  and  proposed  that  if  elected  he  would  apply 
the  knife  to  this  pestiferous  cancer  "Mormonism,"  which  was  a  growth 
upon  the  body  politic,  and  he  would  burn  it  out  and  destroy  it.  Well, 
he  did  not  live  long  enough  to  do  that,  and  "Mormonism"  came  back 
to  his  home,  into  the  very  place  where  he  was  eulogized  by  his  as- 
sociates for  his  stand  against  this  work,  and  yet,  here  we  were, 
peacefully,  at  the  kindness  of  the  officials  of  that  state,  permitted  to 
declare  again  the  glad  news  that  the  God  of  heaven  had  spoken  to 
Joseph  Smith,  and  that  we  had  a  message  for  all  men. 

DECLARING  THE   MESSAGE  ON   THE   STEPS   OF   THE   STATE   CAPITOL. 

I  remember  that  on  the  Sunday  night  of  that  conference  the  hall 
was  not  large  enough  to  admit  all  the  people  who  attended,  and  so  we 
retired  to  the  steps  of  the  capitol,  and  there  were  more  than  a  thou- 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  101 

sand  people  seated  upon  those,  steps  when  we  delivered  again  the 
message  to  them.  And  that  is  the  outdoor  meeting  that  I  had  in  my 
mind  as  I  began  to  speak  to  you. 

While  thus  addressing  these  people,  I  saw  by  my  side,  at  the  en- 
trance of  the  building,  on  the  public  square,  the  only  remaining  perfect 
stone,  known  as  a  sun  stone,  from  the  Nauvoo  temple.  There  were 
twenty-four  of  them,  weighing  above  a  ton  each,  placed  upon  the  top 
of  the  twenty-four  hewn  pilasters  of  the  temple.  I  had  seen  portions 
of  these  stones  elsewhere,  but  none  of  them  perfect  like  this,  and  this 
was  the  property  of  the  state,  preserved  by  the  state,  and  guarded  by 
the  state  against  vandalism.  Well,  I  say,  as  I  saw  these  things,  my 
soul  was  stirred,  and  I  said,  surely  God  is  at  work  moulding  the  senti- 
ments of  men,  altering  their  will  and  purpose  for  the  accomplishment 
of  his  will  and  his  purpose. 

A   TEMPLE   WILL    BE  BUILT   IN    JACKSON    COUNTY,    MO. 

I  remember  in  the  city  of  Independence,  to  which  President  Grant 
made  reference  this  morning,  the  feeling  and  the  sentiment  of  the  people 
are  friendly  toward  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  one  of  the  prominent 
gentlemen  of  that  city,  in  the  commercial  club,  said  to  me  that  he  would 
be  glad  to  see  the  "Mormons"  build  their  contemplated  temple  in  Inde- 
pendence, and  suggested  that  he  thought  they  could  raise  $100,000  in 
Independence  to  help  us  build  it.  That  temple  will  be  built,  as  well  as 
other  things  that  have  been  projected  by  the  inspired  servants  of  God, 
for  the  Lord  knows  how  to  work  it  out.  All  we  need  to  do,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  is  to  keep  on  the  Lord's  side  and  make  him  our  friend, 
stand  in  his  favor,  keep  his  commandments,  and  he  will  work  out  the 
salvation  of  Zion  and  her  redemption.  It  is  a  glorious  thing  to  be  alive 
in  this  dispensation,  to  live  on  the  earth  today,  a  glorious  thing  to  live 
in  America,  a  wonderful  thing  to  live  up  here,  where  the  Lord  ap- 
pointed the  gathering  place  of  his  people  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains. 

THE  MERCY  OF  GOD  SHOWN  TO  TLIE  SAINTS. 

These  are  the  last  days,  days  when  the  judgments  of  the  Almighty 
shall  be  poured  out  upon  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  the  Lord  has 
promised  protection  to  those  who  would  respond  to  the  call — "Come  out 
of  her,  O  ye  my  people,  that  ye  may  escape  from  the  judgments  that 
are  to  come."  He  had  in  mind  the  need  of  protection  and  security  and 
safety  for  such  a  people,  and  so  he  brought  us  here,  even  though  it 
were  unwillingly,  and  as  Brother  Morris  suggested,  "we  came  here 
willingly  because  we  had  to."  But  we  have  not  had  to  wait  long  to  see 
the  mercy  of  the  Lord.  I  thought  a  few  weeks  ago,  while  we  were  gath- 
ering contributions  in  our  special  fast  meeting  for  the  aid  and  relief 
of  the  distressed  in  the  European  nations,  how  the  hearts  of  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  as  they  gave,  should  swell  with  joy  to  know  that  the 
merciful  Father  had  brought  our  fathers  away  from  those  lands,  away 
from  the  place  of  distress  and  of  famine.     And  I  want  to  tell  you 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

that  these  are  but  the  beginnings  of  troubles  that  shall  come.  O,  that 
they  might  be  stayed,  that  they  might  not  fall  upon  the  children  of  men ! 
But  light  has  come  into  the  world,  and  by  reason  of  the  fact  that  light 
is  in  the  world,  and  men  have  sinned  and  are  sinning  against  that 
light,  they  cannot  escape  the  indignation  and  wrath  of  an  offended 
Father,  who  has  been  long-suffering  and  patient  toward  the  children 
of  men.  I  am  sorry  to  say  it,  but  it  is  the  truth ;  these  are  but  the  be- 
ginnings of  days  of  sorrow  and  distress.  We  and  our  children  shall 
rejoice  in  the  years  that  are  to  come  that  our  fathers  and  and  mothers 
had  no  place  to  rest  in  peace  or  in  security,  but  they  had  to  come  here. 
This  is  the  place !  Thank  the  Lord  that  we  did  not  stay  down  in  Mis- 
souri or  Illinois.  Already  we  have  seen  the  hand  of  the  Father. 
Surely  it  was  a  trial  to  those  who  were  driven  from  Nauvoo  and  other 
places,  to  which  Brother  Morris  has  been  calling  our  attention.  Many 
of  them,  no  doubt,  thought  the  Lord  had  forsaken  them,  and  yet  they 
did  not  have  to  wait  long  in  their  mountain  retreat  to  see  behind  a 
frowning  Providence,  his  smiling  face,  having  brought  them  to  the 
only  place  in  this  country  where  there  was  peace,  and  where  there  was 
security  and  safety — for  the  homes  they  longed  to  stay  with  and  the 
habtiation  of  the  Saints  in  that  section  became  the  very  battle  field 
between  the  North  and  the  South.  And  so  we  are  here  through  the 
mercy  of  our  Father,  for  protection  and  safety  against  the  days  of 
trouble  that  are  to  come. 

I  am  glad  we  did  not  go  to  Oregon.  I  have  thought  of  it  many 
times  while  traveling  in  that  section  of  the  country — because  the 
Prophet  sent  a  petition  to  Congress  at  the  time  the  bill  was  under  dis- 
cussion to  which  Brother  Morris  has  referred,  asking  for  appropria- 
tions to  establish  military  roads  and  posts  along  what  was  known  as 
the  Old  Oregon  Trail;  and  the  prophet  said  he  would  furnish  men 
cheaper  than  anyone  else,  and  that  when  we  were  discharged,  we  would 
be  near  the  country  we  wanted  to  go  to.  But  the  bill  was  defeated,  and 
the  military  posts  at  that  time  were  not  established,  and  so  the  prophet's 
plan  was  not  accepted.  It  might  have  perchance  landed  us  in  Ore- 
gon. That  was  not  the  place  the  Lord  wanted  us  to  be  in,  although 
Oregon  was  a  good  country.  There  would  not  have  come  the  de- 
velopment to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  Oregon  that  we  have  received 
here  in  this  country.  It  is  true  we  might  have  become  wealthy,  for 
there  was  an  abundance  that  nature  had  provided.  They  have  today 
two-fifths  of  all  the  timber  in  the  United  States,  in  the  state  of  Oregon. 
It  has  been  a  source  of  great  wealth.  There  would  have  been  no 
building  of  irrigation  ditches,  because  nature  provides  an  abundance 
of  water,  more  than  90  inches  of  rain  falls  in  the  Willamette  valley 
every  year,  enough  to  drown  everybody  if  it  did  not  run  off.  The 
streams  were  full  of  fish,  and  today  the  great  salmon  industries  of  that 
country  are  an  added  source  of  wealth  not  placed  there  by  the  hand  of 
man.  The  forests  were  full  of  wild  game,  from  which  furs  were  ob- 
tained that  established  the  Astor  fortunes  and  others.     And  yet  that 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  103 

was  not  the  place.  We  would  soon  have  been  surrounded  by  the  old 
enemy,  and  there  would  have  been  conflict  and  trouble,  and  maybe  the 
Latter-day  Saints  would'  have  become  rich  and  forgotten  the  Lord.  At 
any  rate,  we  would  not  have  done  the  work  we  have  done  here.  Where 
nature  does  much  for  man,  man  is  inclined  to  do  little,  or  less ;  but 
where  man  has  to  struggle  for  his  existence,  there  is  the  place  where  his 
physical  powers  are  developed  and  his  faith  increased.  There  is  the  place 
where  there  is  the  possibility  of  growth  such  as  cannot  come  in  any 
other  section  of  the  country.  And  Theodore  Roosevelt,  the  late  honored 
President  of  the  United  States,  said,  in  the  great  building  across  the 
way  here,  that  it  was  not  so  much  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  did  as 
where  they  did  it,  that  counted.  And  so  it  was  here  that  we  should  de- 
velop physical  strength  and  power,  by  industry,  by  labor,  by  toil,  by 
frugality,  such  as  we  would  not  have  had  to  face  in  any  other  portion 
of  this  western  country,  either  in  California  or  in  Oregon.  Then  there 
would  not  have  been  those  circumstances  that  called  forth  faith  and 
led  us  to  build  a  monument  like  this  Sea-Gull  Monument  that  is  before 
us  as  evidence  that  here  the  power  and  mercy  of  God  were  given  a 
chance,  an  opportunity  to  make  themselves  manifest.  We  needed 
him  here,  we  had  to  depend  upon  him.  I  will  tell  you  in  the  midst  of 
prosperity,  when  men  thrive,  when  everything  moves  well  for  them, 
there  is  always  a  natural  tendency  for  them  to  forget  the  Lord,  and  to 
become  self-sufficient  and  to  be  confident  in  themselves.  It  was  so  with 
the  Children  of  Israel  when  they  had  before  them  the  armies  of  the 
Egyptians  and  at  their  back  the  Red  Sea,  when  they  were  in  im- 
minent peril  and  they  could  not  help  themselves — it  was  then  in  mighty 
faith/they  cried  unto  their  Father  in  heaven,  and  he  came  to  their  de- 
liverance, and  the  waters  of  the  Red  Sea  were  parted,  and  they  were 
permitted,  through  his  mercy,  to  'be  saved.  And  so  it 
was  in  the  day  of  their  famine  for  food  and  for  water  in  the  wil- 
derness. When  they  were  in  need  he  revealed  himself,  but  in  the  days 
of  their  prosperity,  they  were  not  so  near  to  him.  And  so  in  our  history, 
in  these  trials  and  difficulties,  we  have  gone  to  the  Lord,  or  at  least  the 
Lord  has  provided  the  opportunity  whereby  we  had  to  come  to  him,  we 
had  to  depend  upon  him;  and  he  has  never  deserted  us  nor  left  us 
alone  in  any  of  these  times  of  trial  and  difficulty. 

OUT  OF  DISTRESS  GREAT  GOOD  SHALT.   COME. 

There  are  days  of  trial  undoubtedly  ahead  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
days  when  their  faith  may  be  shaken,  if  it  will  be  shaken.  I  earnestly 
pray  that  our  Father  shall  keep  such  a  guard  over  this  Church,  over 
the  individual  membership  of  it,  that  we  will  never  be  left  to  a  feeling  of 
absolute  independence  of  him,  that  we  will  never  become  so  prosperous 
that  we  will  feel  that  we  can  get  along  without  the  Lord's  blessing  and 
favor;  and  if  we  have  had  days  of  difficulty — and  we  have,  brethren 
and  sisters — the  whole  world  has  been  through  days  of  stress  and 
trouble,  financial  difficulty  and  depression,  and  it  is  not  ended.      Great 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

nations  that  have  never  in  many  years  been  touched  by  poverty  and  by 
stress  and  by  internal  strife,  today  are  being  racked  in  the  midst  of 
these  distressful  conditions.  England  itself  never  was  in  a  more  serious 
condition  than  she  is  today,  with  millions  of  her  workers  on  strike.  No 
man  can  tell  what  the  outcome  of  this  trouble  shall  be.  Thank  the 
Lord  that  we  live  in  the  land  of  peace,  in  the  land  of  security  from  these 
things,  although  we  have  not  very  much  money  just  now,  although  we 
have  not  had  a  very  prosperous  season.  But,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  bear  witness  to  you  that  out  of  our  present  distresses,  if  we  are  dis- 
tressed financially,  great  good  will  come ;  lessons  that  we  need  to  learn, 
lessons  of  thrift,  lessons  of  economy,  lessons  of  trust,  lessons  of  faith  in 
the  Lord,  lessons  that  shall  take  away  from  our  heart  a  feeling  of  greed 
and  selfishness  to  want  the  last  dollar,  a  feeling  of  sympathy  for  our 
brethren  and  sisters ;  that  we  shall  be  coming  toward  the  point  where 
we  are  to  be  our  brother's  keeper,  where  we  may  establish  universal 
brotherhood  rather  than  to  be  banded  in  groups  contending  against 
other  groups,  the  motive  of  which  shall  be  pure  selfishness  in  our 
hearts. 

IN   THE   FALL   OF   HARD   TIMES    LET   US   LEARN   THRIFT. 

Now,  let  us  learn  from  the  experiences  through  which  we  are 
going,  lessons  that  shall  be  of  value  to  us.  Let  us  keep  out  of  the  bond- 
age of  debt;  do  not  get  the  spending  habit,  so  that  if  times  of  short 
years  shall  come,  we  will  find  ourselves  in  great  distress.  It  is  an  ex- 
cellent thing  to  save  a  little,  to  conserve  what  the  Lord  gives  us,  that 
if  there  shall  come  hard  times,  we  will  survive  them,  for  I  want  to  tell 
you  we  have  not  seen  the  last  of  hard  times.  The  Lord  wants  to 
humble  the  earth  and  bring  it  to  a  condition  of  repentance.  He  knows 
how  to  do  it ;  he  has  said  in  one  of  these  revelations  to  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  days  of  famine  would  come,  that  by  fire  and  hail- 
storm the  crops  of  the  earth  should  be  destroyed ;  and  if  the  crops 
of  the  earth  for  one  season  were  destroyed,  there  would  be  such  suf- 
fering as  we  have  not  dreamed  of.  And  the  Latter-day  Saints,  from 
the  beginning  have  been  taught  to  save  a  little,  to  conserve  their 
breadstuff,  so  that  they  may  have  in  their  stores  supply  for  man  and 
for  beast. 

Now,  you  Latter-day  Saints,  rejoice  in  the  habitations  that  have 
come  to  us  in  these  mountains,  cultivate  every  acre  of  ground  you 
possibly  can,  save  every  head  that  the  Lord  gives  you,  both  of  cattle 
and  of  sheep,  conserve  it  and  preserve  it,  for  it  will  be  important  in  days 
that  are  to  come,  and  do  not  feel  that  you  won't  survive.  You  will. 
The  Lord  is  just  teaching  us  lessons  of  thrift  and  of  economy,  and 
to  listen  to  the  council  of  those  who  preside  over,  us  in  our  wards  and 
stakes. 

A   KEY   TO   SUCCESS. 

My  advice  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  in  debt  is  that  when- 
ever they  harvest  their  crops  of  grain  or  shear  their  sheep,  they  sell 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  105 

what  the  Lord  puts  into  their  hands  and  do  not  speculate  upon  it,  for 
the  chances  are  it  will  bring  you  into  difficulty.  You  cannot  afford  to 
speculate ;  it  is  one  thing  to  know  how  to  raise  corn,  cultivate  the  soil 
and  tend  flocks,  and  another  man's  business  to  know  the  markets.  Now, 
if  you  will  be  wise  in  this  respect,  and  if  you  are  in  doubt,  I  will  tell 
you  what  to  do  concerning  your  labors  upon  the  farm  and  in  the  busi- 
ness in  which  you  engage  and  all  things  with  which  the  Lord  blesses 
you.  I  give  you  this  key — you  will  find  it  in  the  9th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  you  are  to  study  out  in  your  own  mind  the 
best  thing,  what  you  ought  to  do,  and  when  you  have  reached  your 
conclusion  that,  "this  is  the  thing  I  will  do  about  my  farm,"  or  sheep, 
or  business,  or  something  else — when  you  have  reached  your  conclusion, 
go  to  the  Lord  and  tell  him  what  you  have  decided  to  do,  and  if 
that  is  the  thing  that  you  ought  to  do,  he  will  cause  that  your  bosom 
shall  burn  within  you,  that  you  will  have  the  conviction,  a  testimony 
within  your  soul,  and  you  will  know  that  the  thing  is  right.  But  if  it 
is  not  right,  he  will  take  away  the  feeling  to  do  the  thing  that  you  had 
contemplated  to  do,  that  you  shall  have  a  stupor  of  thought  and  will 
not  have  that  feeling  to  go  ahead,  but  shall  reconsider  it  and  counsel 
about  it,  and  go  again  to  the  Lord,  and  go  forward  when  we  are  sure 
we  are  right.  But  we  are  to  get  right,  and  we  have  the  privilege  to 
enjoy  the  spirit  of  inspiration  from  God.  Keep  close  to  him  and  he 
will  guard  us.  I  testify  to  you  that  God  Almighty  will  put  into  the 
hands  of  this  people  all  the  means  and  the  wealth  and  the  power  he  can 
trust  us  with,  if  we  will  only  keep  the  faith  and  keep  from  apostatizing 
and  becoming  a  law  unto  ourselves  and  being  selfish.  He  is  just  giving 
us  today  all  we  can  stand.  He  will  not  give  us  more  unless  we  will 
prove  to  him,  that  we  will  serve  him  no  matter  what  may  come. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  THE  SAINTS  TO  PROVE  FAITHFUL  TO  GOD. 

I  pray  earnestly  that  we  shall  go  forth  from  this  conference,  when 
it  is  concluded,  with  a  determination  that  we  will  show  to  our  Father 
in  heaven  that  we  appreciate  what  he  has  done  for  our  fathers,  what 
he  has  done  for  us,  in  bringing  us  to  this  place,  and  that  we  will  mani- 
fest that  we  have  the  same  regard  for  him  and  his  word  that  our  fathers 
had,  who  served  him  in  faithfulness,  and  whom  he  heard,  and  that  we 
shall  never  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  we  are  not  here  wholly  to  obtain 
the  blessings  of  the  wealth  of  the  hills  and  of  the  valleys  and  of  the 
things  of  this  world,  that  these  are  mere  stepping  stones  which  the 
Lord  has  placed  within,  our  hands  as  means  for  our  accomplishing  his 
great  purposes. 

I  want  to  read  to  you,  in  conclusion,  a  few  words  from  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Here  is  a  prophecy  dealing  with  our  time.  You  will  find 
these  words  in  the  14th  Chapter  of  First  Nephi,  where  Nephi  speaks  as 
follows : 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that  if  the  Gentiles  shall  hearken  unto  the 
Lamb  ,of  God  iin  that  day  that  he  shall  manifest  unto  them  in  word,  and 
also  in  power,  in  very  deed,  unto  the  taking  away  of  their  stumbling  blocks." 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

And  among  the  gentiles  who  came  to  this  country  and  their  pos- 
terity were  many  of  the  house  of  Israel,  and  among  them  there  were 
those  who  did  listen  and  who  did  serve  God,  and  who  formed  the 
nucleus  of  this,  his  great  Church,  and  the  stumbling  blocks  have  been 
removed  through  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 
revelations  contained  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants. 

"And  if  they  harden  not  their  hearts  against  the  Lamb  of  God,  they 
shall  be  numbered  among  the  seed  of  thy  father;  yea,  they  shall  be  num- 
bered among  the  house  of  Israel;  and  they  shall  be  a  blessed  people  upon 
the  promised  land  forever:  they  shall  be  no  more  brought  down  into  captiv- 
ity; and  the  house  of  Israel  shall  no  more  be  confounded." 

O,  how  wonderful,  that  he  who  hath  been  with  us  and  with  our 
fathers,  hath  vindicated  us,  hath  made  us  a  promise,  if  we  will  be 
true  to  him  he  will  see  to  it  that  we  shall  not  be  brought  into  bondage, 
nor  be  confounded !  O,  can  we  not  trust  him  ?  Has  he  not  vindicated 
us?  Has  he  not  been  our  friend?  Has  he  not  wrought  out,  when 
the  circumstances  made  it  difficult  the  salvation  of  this  people  ?  He 
surely  has.  Now  let  us  not  desert  him,  nor  desert  his  word,  for  we 
cannot,  in  view  of  the  light  and  the  knowledge  that  have  come  to  us, 
we  cannot  close  our  eyes  to  these  things  and  become  a  law  unto  our- 
selves, and  obtain  the  favor  of  Almighty  God. 

"And  that  great  pit  which  hath  been  digged  for  them,  by  that  great 
and  abominable  church,  which  was  founded  by  the  devil  and  his  children, 
that  he  might  lead  away  the  souls  of  men  down  to  hell;  yea,  that  great  pit 
which  hath  been  digged  for  the  destruction  of  men,  shall  be  filled  by  those 
who  digged  it,  unto  their  utter  destruction,  saith  the  Lamb  of  God;  not  the 
destruction  of  the  soul,  save  it  be  the  casting  of  it  into  that  hell  which  hath 
no  end; 

"For  behold,  this  is  according  to  the  captivity  of  the  devil,  and  also 
according  to  the  justice  of  God,  upon  all  those  who  will  work  wickedness 
and  abomination  before  him. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  angel  spake  unto  me,  Nephi,  saying,  Thou 
hast  beheld  that  if  the  Gentiles  repent,  it  shall  be  well  with  them;  and 
thou  also  knowest  concerning  the  covenants  of  the  Lord  unto  the  house  of 
Israel;  and  thou  also  hast  heard,  that  whoso  repenteth  not,  must  perish; 

"Therefore,  wo,  be  unto  the  Gentiles,  if  it  so  be  that  they  harden  their 
hearts  against  the  Lamb  of  God; 

For  the  time  cometh,  saith  the  Lamb  of  God,  That  I  will  work  a  great 
and  a  marvelous  work  among  the  children  of  men;  a  work  which  shall  be 
everlasting,  either  , on  the  one  hand  or  on  the  other;  either  to  the  convincing 
of  them  unto  peace  and  life  eternal,  or  unto  the  deliverance  of  them  to  the 
hardness  of  their  hearts  and  the  blindness  of  their  minds,  unto  their  being 
brought  down  into  captivity,  and  also  into  destruction,  both  temporally  and 
spiritually,  according  to  the  captivity  of  the  devil,  of  which  I  have  spoken. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  the  angel  had  spoken  these  words,  he 
said  unto  me,  Rememberest  thou  the  covenants  of  the  Father  unto  the 
house  of  Israel?     I  said  unto  him,  Yea. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  said  unto  me,  Look,  and  behold  that  great 
and  abominable  church,  which  is  the  mother  of  abominations,  whose  founda- 
tion is  the  devil. 

"And  he  said  unto  me,  Behold  there  are,  save  two  churches  only;  the 
one  is  the  church  of  the  Lamb  of  God,  and  the  other  is  the  church  of  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  107 

devil;  wherefore,  whoso  belongeth  not  to  the  church  of  the  Lamb  of  God, 
belongeth  to  that  great  church,  which  is  the  mother  of  abominations;  and 
she  is  the  whore  of  all  the  earth. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  looked  and  beheld  the  whore  of  all  the 
earth,  and  she  sat  upon  many  waters;  and  she  had  dominion  over  all  the 
eaith,  among  all  nations,  kindreds,  tongues,  and  people. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the  church  of  the  Lamb  of  God." 

He  saw  this  day.  He  saw  us,  here,  gathered  as  we  are  in  the  tops 
of  the  mountains. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the  church  of  the  Lamb  of  God, 
and  its  numbers  were  few." 

Indeed,  we  are  but  few — as  the  President  remarked  this  morning, 
but  a  handful  in  the  midst  of  the  mighty  hosts  that  cover  the  earth's 
surface. 

"*  *  *  And  its  numbers  were  few,  because  of  the  wickedness  and 
abominations  of  the  whore  who  sat  upon  many  waters;  nevertheless  I  beheld 
that  the  church  of  the  Lamb,  who  were  the  saints  of  God,  were  also  upon 
all  the  face  of  the  earth." 

And  so  we  are,  and  in  nearly  every  land  of  the  earth  today,  or.r 
missionaries — almost  back  to  our  original  numbers,  a  little  more  than 
1700, — are  in  the  various  nations  of  the  earth,  declaring  this  day  the 
message  of  life  and  salvation. 

"*     *     *     And  their  dominions  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  were  small." 

Great  as  they  are,  still  they  are  small  in  comparison  to  others. 

"*  *  *  Small,  because  ,of  the  wickedness  of  the  great  whore  whom 
I  saw. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the  great  mother  of  abominations 
did  gather  together  multitudes  upon  the  face  of  all  the  earth,  among  all 
the  nations  of  the  Gentiles,  to  fight  against  the  Lamb  of  God." 

If  we  have  not  been  through  that  experience,  with  a  combination 
against  us  everywhere,  with  forces  arrayed  in  our  great  gatherings  such 
as  the  world's  great!  Christian  Citizenship  Conference  and  others !  No 
matter  what  else  they  may  disagree  upon,  on  one  point  they  are  always 
agreed,  to  fight  the  "Mormons." 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  beheld  the  power  of  the  Lamb  of 
God,  that  it  descended  upon  the  saints  of  the  church  of  the  Lamb,  and  upon 
the  covenant  people  of  the  Lord,  who  were  scattered  upon  all  the  face  of  the 
earth;  and  they  were  armed  with  righteousness  and  with  the  power  of 
God  in  great  glory. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  that  the  wrath  of  God  was  poured 
out  upon  the  great  and  abominable  church,  insomuch  that  there  were  wars 
and  rumors  oi  wars  among  all  the  nations  and  kindreds  of  the  earth. 

"And  as  there. began  to  be  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  among  all  the 
nations  which  belonged  to  the  mother  of  abominations,  the  angel  spake 
unto  me,  saying,  B«hold,  the  wrath  of  God  is  upon  the  mother  of  harlots; 
and  behold,  thou  seest  all  these  things; 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

"And  when  the  day  cometh  that  the  wrath  of  God  is  poured  out  upon 
the  mother  of  harlots,  which  is  the  great  and  abominable  church  of  all  the 
earth,  whose  foundation  is  the  devil,  then,  at  that  day,  the  work  of  the 
Father  shall  commence,  in  preparing  the  way  for  the  fulfilling  of  his 
covenants,  which  he  hath  made  to  his  people,  who  are  of  the  house  of 
Israel." 

We  stand  in  that  day,  when  the  favor  of  Almighty  God  shall  be 
poured  out  upon  his  Church  in  greater  abundance  than  it  has  ever  been. 
We  shall  make  progress  which  shall  far  excel  the  progress  and  advance- 
ment of  the  past,  if  we  serve  our  heavenly  Father  and  do  not  desert  him. 
And  all  the  promises  he  has  made  from  the  earliest  day  until  this  time, 
concerning  the  redemption  and  establishment  of  his  righteousness  in 
the  worldd,  are  to  come  to  pass  not  only  by  this  power  upon  his  people, 
but  by  reason  of  his  chastisement  that  shall  be  upon  those  who  do  not 
serve  him. 

CLOSING    TESTIMONY. 

This  is  God's  work.  He  is  in  it.  He  is  with  those  who  lead  it, 
I  know.  The  light  is  in  the  ship.  The  great  and  glorious  caravan, 
the  Church  of  the  living  God,  is  moving  onward  and  forward  to  the  ac- 
complishment of  its  great  purposes.  And  let  the  dogs  bark.  They 
amount  to  little  when  they  fight  God,  for  they  are  fighting  Him  when 
they  fight  this  work.  And  we  will  not  amount  to  much  except  we  be 
true  to  this  work,  for  it  is  God's,  and  he  will  not  be  mocked.  When 
we  have  light  and  knowledge,  there  comes  responsibility.  Let  us  each 
assume  it,  do  our  part,  get  our  homes,  and  with  all  our  hearts  serve 
him,  as  we  never  have  done  before,  and  set  our  houses  in  order  and  pre- 
pare ourselves  that  we  may  be  worthy  his  favor  to  escape  the  judgments 
that  are  yet  to  come. 

For,  as  I  have  already  remarked,  I  wish  I  could  say  to  you  that 
we  have  seen  the  end,  but  I  am  sorry  to  say  we  have  but  seen  the  be- 
ginning, and  yet,  so  far  as  this  people  are  concerned,  they  shall  be 
immune  against  them,  if  they  will  serve  God  and  keep  his  command- 
ments ;  for  he  who  hath  delivered  us,  and  who  hath  been  the  friend 
of  our  fathers,  he  who  hath  made  the  wrath  of  man  to  serve  him,  and 
hath  vindicated  his  servants  and  exalted  his  work,  will  be  with  us  to 
our  redemption  and  salvation,  if  we  are  willing  that  he  shall  do  it. 

May  the  Lord  help  us,  that  we  may  find  favor  in  his  sight,  continue 
to  be  his  people,  approved  of  him,  and  escape  his  disfavor  and  the 
judgment  that  shall  come  upon  the  wicked  and  the  unrepentant  and  the 
rebellious,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 
Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Junius  Romney. 


SECOND   DAY 

The  forenoon  of  the  second  day  was  devoted  to  a  special  priest- 
hood meeting  held  in  the  Assembly  Hall  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Monday, 
April  4,  1921. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  called  the  congregation  to  order  at  2 
o'clock.  The  building  was  comfortably  filled  with  representatives  and 
Saints  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Do  what  is  right." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  James  W.  Lesueur,  President  of 
the  Maricopa  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of  the 
Lord." 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

In  common  with  all  the  general  assemblies  connected  with  our 
great  conferences,  this  meeting  is  open  to  the  public,  to  non-members 
as  well  as  to  members  of  the  Church;  and  we  welcome  the  visitor,  the 
inquirer,  the  investigator  particularly,  and  those  who  are  called,  con- 
ventionally, the  strangers  within  our  gates.     But  I  take  it  to  be  a  self- 

WIIO    COMPOSE   THIS   VAST   AUDIENCE. 

evident  fact  that  the  very  large  majority  of  this  vast  assemblage  com- 
prises Latter-day  Saints,  those  who  have  come  in  at  the  door,  those 
who  have  received  the  message  of  salvation  gladly  and  have  availed 
themselves  of  it,  those  who  have  complied  with  the  requirements  laid 
down  by  him  whose  Church  this  is  and  whose  name  it  bears,  as  con- 
ditions for  membership  therein. 

These  are  they  who  have  had  and  have  a  living  faith  in  God 
the  Eternal  Father  and  in  his  literal  Son  Jesus  Christ,  our  Lord  and 
Redeemer,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  third  Personage  in  the  God- 
head. 

These  are  they  who  have  become  keenly  conscious  of  the  need 
of  repentance,  and  who  have  in  fact  become  repentant  and  have  of- 
fered unto  the  Lord  that  most  acceptable  of  offerings,  surpassing  all 
the  slain  bullocks  and  rams  and  other  bleeding  victims  on  the  altars 
of  Israel,  under  the  law  of  Moses,  namely,  a  broken  heart  and  a  con- 
trite spirit. 

These  are  they  who  have  humbled  themselves,  submitting  them- 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

selves  to  the  hands  of  men  holding  authority  of  God,  commissioned 
by  Jesus  Christ,  and  who  have  been  severally  by  such  a  one  laid 
beneath  the  water,  and  who  have  come  forth  out  of  the  water,  as 
though  resurrected  from  the  dead,  'being  thus  baptized  for  the  re- 
mission of  their  sins. 

These  are  they  who  have  had  hands  laid  upon  them  in  the  author- 
ity of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  for  the  bestowal  of  the  right  and  title  to 
the  companionship  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

WE  REJOICE   IN  THE   FORGIVENESS   OF  SINS. 

We  have  good  reasons  to  rejoice.  What  boon  of  greater  worth 
could  be  offered  unto  man  than  the  forgiveness  of  his  sins,  with  the 
innumerable  attendant  blessings ;  to  be  made  eligible  for  pardon,  for 
acceptance  by  and  before  the  Lord?  To  such  I  need  not  preach  the 
gospel  of  baptism,  for  ye  have  been  baptized.  I  need  not  dwell  upon 
the  requirements  respecting  faith  and  repentance,  for  ye  have  mani- 
fested the  one  and  the  other;  but  I  address  myself,  nevertheless,  more 
particularly  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  present,  and  what  I  shall  say 
to  them  I  am  quite  sure  will  hurt  none  others  who  may  be  with  us,  our 
welcome  visitors  who  have  not  yet  come  into  the  Church,  who  have 
not  yet  complied  with  the  requirements  laid  down  by  the  Lord,  our 
Master,  as  the  conditions  of  citizenship  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Yes,  we  have  been  baptized  for  the  remission  of  our  sins.  To  re- 
mit, in  the  sense  in  which  we  speak  of  sins  being  or  having  been  re- 
mitted, is  to  grant  pardon  for  the  offense,  and  to  annul,  suspend,  or 
render  inoperative  the  penalty  which  otherwise  would  have  been  in- 
evitable. A  question  arises  in  my  mind.  Are  we,  you  and  I,  Latter- 
day  Saints,  retaining  the  remission  of  our  sins  which  we  received 
through  obedience  to  the  law  of  God? 

ARE  WE  RETAINING  THE  FORGIVENESS  OF  SINS  ? 

Remission,  the  pearl  of  great  price,  was  ours.  It  is  a  fit  sub- 
ject for  individual  inquirv — Is  it  now  yours  and  mine?  Is  it  ours 
still? 

The  righteous  Nephite,  King  Benjamin,  toward  the  close  of  a 
forceful  address,  which  he  offered  on  the  occasion  of  his  yielding  up 
the  authority  of  kingship  unto  his  son,  admonished  the  people  most 
earnestly  to  retain  the  remission  of  sins  which  they  had  received 
through  their  baptism,  to  make  it  perpetual.  And  Alma,  prophet, 
high  priest,  and  chief  judge,  rejoiced  when  he  found  that  a  great  part 
of  his  people  had  verily  retained  the  remission  of  their  sins.  I  refer 
you  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  Mosiah,  chapter  four,  verse  twenty-six, 
for  the  first  instance,  and  to  Alma,  chapter  four,  verse  fourteen, 
for  the  second.  Neither  you  nor  I  will  waste  time  by  reading  it  again, 
nor  in  pondering  upon  the  principle  embodied  therein — the  retention 
of  the  blessing  of  remission  of  sins. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  T  ALU  AGE  111 

But  perhaps  one  may  ask:  Having  received  a  remission,  are 
we  not  forever  entitled  to  it?  Is  it  possible  that  God  can  give  and 
then  take  back?  Let  us  rather  say,  it  is  possible,  and  all  too  commonly 
a  reality,  for  men  to  receive  and  then  to  forfeit.  You  note  that  bap- 
tism for  the  remission  of  sins  is  the  first  ordinance  specified  and  the 
third  principle  named  in  our  ordinary  summary  and  arrangement  of 
the  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  It  has  been  beautifully 
called  the  gate  to  the  kingdom,  whose  keeper  is  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel.  Blessed  is  he  whose  sins  are  forgiven,  remitted;  but  this  re- 
mission comes  as  no  capricious  act,  as  no  favor  in  the  sense  of  a  dis- 
criminatory gift,  even  from  God ;  for  he  is  a  just  God  and  he  remits 
sins  according  to  the  law  of  God,  which  combines  both  justice  and 
mercy. 

The  mercy  of  God  is  extended  unto  those  who  make  themselves 
eligible  to  receive  the  gift.  God  desires  to  be  merciful  to  us  and  oft- 
times  we  block  his  way.  He  desires  and  yearns  to  bless  us  in  some 
particular,  and  ofttimes  we  make  it  impossible  for  him  so  to  do,  be- 
cause we  do  not  comply  with  the  conditions  that  render  us  eligible  for 
that  exercise  of  the  divine  power. 

THE  LORD   CAN   GIVE  AND  RECALL,   PRONOUNCE  AND   CHANGE. 

That  the  Lord  can  pronounce  and  change,  that  he  can  give  and 
recall,  is  attested  by  scripture  after  scripture.  There  comes  to  my 
mind  the  parable  spoken  by  the  Son  of  God  while  He  was  in  the  flesh, 
known  to  us  as  the  parable  of  the  unmerciful  servant,  in  which  we 
find  that  though  one  was  forgiven,  that  forgiveness  was  revoked,  be- 
cause he  forfeited  his  right  to  it.  He  did  not  retain  it,  he  did  not  keep 
it.     Not  to  take  time  here  to  read  it  in  full,  I  commend  the  parable 

AN   ILLUSTRATION   FROM    ANCIENT   SCRIPTURE. 

to  you  for  perusal.  You  will  find  it  recorded  in  the  eighteenth  chap- 
ter of  Matthew,  beginning  with  the  twenty-third  verse.  It  tells  the 
story  of  a  man  who  was  deep  in  debt.  He  owed  his  creditor  the 
enormous  sum  of  ten  thousand  talents,  and  being  unable  to  pay  he 
was  greatly  disturbed  when  his  lord  called  for  payment,  and  he 
pleaded  for  time  saying:  "Lord,  have  patience  with  me,  and  I  will 
pay  thee  all.''  Now,  the  lord  of  that  servant  was  moved  with  com- 
passion and  loosed  him  and  instead  of  giving  him  time  in  wdiich  to 
pay,  he  forgave  him  the  debt,  so  merciful  was  he,  so  full  of  kindness 
and  goodness,  almost  above  that  of  men.  But  that  same  servant  went 
out,  and,  meeting  on  the  way  one  of  his  fellow-servants  who  owed  him 
a  paltry  hundred  pence,  seized  him  by  the  throat  and  said :  "Pay  me 
what  thou  owest,"  and  the  fellow-servant  fell  down  at  his  feet  and 
besought  him,  saying:  "Have  patience  with  me,  and  I  will  pay  thee 
all."  One  would  have  thought  that  the  very  similarity  of  the  plea  of 
the  small  debtor,  in  words  so  like  those  of  the  plea  he,  the  greater 
debtor,  had  made  immediately  before,  would  have  moved  him  to  re- 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

membrance,  but  he  would  not,  and  he  cast  his  fellow-servant  into 
prison,  according  to  the  law  of  that  day,  whatever  we  may  have  to 
say  as  to  the  justice  of  it.  When  the  other  servants  saw  that  they 
were  sorry,  and  came  and  reported  the  matter  unto  their  master.  Then 
the  lord  of  those  servants,  after  that  he  had  called  the  unmerciful  one, 
said  unto  him :  "O  thou  wicked  servant,  I  forgave  thee  all  that  debt, 
because  thou  desiredst  me:  Shouldst  thou  also  not  have  had  compas- 
sion on  thy  fellow-servant,  even  as  I  had  pity  on  thee?  And  his  lord 
was  wroth,  and  delivered  him  to  the  tormentors,  till  he  should  pay  all 
that  was  due  unto  him.  So  likewise  shall  my  Heavenly  Father  do 
also  unto  you,  if  ye  from  your  hearts  forgive  not  every  man  his  brother 
their  trespasses." 

The  sin  of  unforgiveness,  hardness  of  heart,  cruelty,  herein  ex- 
emplified, is  but  a  type  of  sin  in  general.  Let  us  note  the  fact  that 
though  the  lord  of  that  servant  had  forgiven  him  his  debt,  had  can- 
celed it  in  fact,  yet  when  he  learned  that  that  servant  was  no  longer 
humble,  that  he  did  not  live  so  as  to  be  worthy  of  the  mercy  ex- 
tended to  him,  he  reversed  his  act  of  remission,  recalled  his  forgive- 
ness and  demanded  of  the  wicked  one  payment  in  full.  The  blessings 
of  the  Lord  are  always  conditional,  the  condition  being  our  living  up 
to  the  requirement  making  us  fit  recipients  of  blessing. 

The  act  of  baptism  does  not  simply  blot  out  the  sins  of  the  past 
and  enable  us  to  begin  with  a  new  start,  but  it  provides  that  if  we 
have  submitted  to  baptism  worthily,  we  are  entitled  to  remission  of 
sin,  that  is,  if  we  try  to  do  our  best,  so  as  to  be  worthy  of  that  boon. 

It  is  not  required  nor  is  it  allowed  that  we  shall  be  baptized  over 
and  over  again  with  the  thought  of  wiping  out  our  sins  up  to  date ; 
but  it  is  ordained  of  God  that  having  been  baptized,  after  manifest- 
ing true  faith  and  sincere  repentance,  if  we  shall  live  to  be  worthy 
of  the  remission  of  sins,  through  continued  repentance,  through  our 
unfailing  efforts  to  overcome,,  through  our  course  of  good  works, 
doing  unto  our  neighbors  as  we  would  have  them  do  unto  us,  and  in 
short,  through  our  continued  compliance  with  the  commandments  of 
God,  we  shall  have  our  sins  remitted,  if  they  be  not  so  heinous  as  to  be 
unforgivable. 

AN   ILLUSTRATION  FROM   MODERN  SCRIPTURE. 

The  scripture  I  have  cited  is  ancient ;  the  parable,  while  truly  as 
applicable  today  as  ever,  is  nevertheless  many  centuries  old,  so  far  as 
its  record  is  concerned.  In  this  very  day  in  which  we  live  the  Lord 
has  spoken,  and  that  very  definitely,  concerning  this  matter.  We 
find  recorded  in  the  56th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants :  "Be- 
hold, I,  the  Lord,  command,  and  he  that  will  not  obey  shall  be  cut 
off  in  mine  own  due  time,  and  after  that  I  have  commanded  and  the 
commandment  is  broken."  It  is  necessary  to  bear  in  mind,  as  the  first 
paragraph  indicates,  that  this  revelation  is  addressed  to  the  people  of 
the  Church : 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE  ••  113 

"Hearken,  O  ye  people,  who  profess  my  name,  saith  the  Lord 
your  God."  Unto  them  he  declares  that  the  Lord  does  command,  and 
he  that  will  not  obey  will  be  cut  off  in  the  Lord's  own  time.  Now 
please  note  the  next  verse. 

"Wherefore  I,  the  Lord,  command  and  revoke,  as  it  seemeth 
me  good ;  and  all  this  to  be  answered  upon  the  heads  of  the  rebellious, 
saith  the  Lord." 

Only  the  rebellious,  those  who  will  not  obey  the  commandments 
of  God  are  to  be  thus  dealt  with,  are  to  have  their  blessings  revoked ; 
only  these  will  forfeit  the  blessings  to  which  they  were  entitled.  In 
another  revelation  given  shortly  after  that,  Section  58,  the  Lord  takes 
people  to  task  because  they  were  in  the  habit  of  saying — and  he  might 
well  take  some  of  us  to  task,  for  we  still  say  it — that  the  Lord  doesn't 
keep  his  word,  that  he  makes  promises  and  fails  to  fulfil  them.  The 
Lord  makes  explanation ;  let  me  read  a  few  verses  leading  up  to 
that  particular  declaration: 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously  engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and 
do  many  things  of  their  own  free  will,  and  bring  to  pass  much  righteous- 
ness; 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein  they  are  agents  unto  themselves. 
And  inasmuch  as  men  do  good  they  shall  in  nowise  lose  their  reward. 

"But  he  that  doeth  not  anything  until  he  is  commanded,  and  receiveth 
a  commandment  with  doubtful  heart,  and  keepeth  it  with  slothfulness,  the 
same  is  damned. 

"Who  am  I  that  made  man,  saith  the  Lord,  that  will  hold  him  guilt- 
less that  obeys  not  my  commandments? 

"Who  am  I,  saith  the  Lord,  that  hath  promised  and  hath  not  fulfilled? 

"I  command  and  a  man  obeys  not,  I  revoke  and  they  receive  not  the 
blessing; 

"Then  they  say  in  their  hearts,  this  is  not  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for 
his  promises  are  not  fulfilled.  But  wo  unto  such,  for  their  reward  lurketh 
beneath,  and  not  from  above." 

THE    LORD    GIVETH    AND    TAKETH    IN    RIGHTEOUSNESS. 

The  Lord  is  guided  by  righteousness.  In  righteousness  he  giveth 
and  in  righteousness  he  taketh,  and  blessed  be  his  name. 

The  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper  has  been  provided  as  an  or- 
dinance whereby  at  frequent  intervals  we  can  testify  unto  the  Lord 
that  we  are  still  under  the  covenant  that  we  have  made  with  him  by 
baptism,  even  witnessing  unto  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  that  we  do 
always  remember  his  Son,  our  Redeemer;  that  we  still  bear  his  name; 
that  we  desire  and  intend  to  keep  the  commandments  which  he  has 
given  unto  us— and  all  for  this  great  purpose,  that  we  may  always 
have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  us.  Thus  we  may  retain  the  blessings  that 
we  have  hitherto  received,  making  them  ours  throughout  time  and 
for  eternity.    And  I  cite  you  to  one  more  scripture  which,  consisting 

THE  GREATEST  DECLARATION    ON    THE  SUBJECT. 

of  but  few  lines  only,  is  perhaps  the  greatest  declaration  of  its  kind 
on  record,  and  the  best  summary  that  I  can  possibly  give  unto  you  in 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

connection  with  this  thought,  as  recorded  in  the  82nd  Section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  10th  verse : 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do  what  I   say,  but  when  ye  do  not 
what  I  say,  ye  have  no  promise." 

Let  us  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  Then,  by  his  own 
word,  he  is  bound  to  give  unto  us  the  blessings  that  have  been  prom- 
ised ;  but  when  we  do  not  do  what  he  says,  when  we  go  back  upon  our 
covenant,  we  forfeit.  May  we  retain  the  remission  of  our  sins  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters :  I  have  the  honor,  once  more,  of 
standing  before  you  in  the  General  Conference  of  the  Church,  in  this 
great  building  that  has  witnessed  so  many  gatherings  of  the  Saints.  1 
believe  that  all  persons,  making  units  of  this  congregation  today,  have 
come  here  with  a  prayer  in  their  hearts  that  they  may  receive  blessings, 
that  they  may  receive  new  light  and  intelligence  as  a  guide  for  their 
feet  and  a  prompter  for  their  conscience,  to  lead  and  direct  them  in 
the  future,  in  the  way  of  truth  and  right. 

We  have  been  favored  with  discourses  from  our  brethren,  and  1 
believe  that  I  echo  the  sentiment  of  every  one,  that  we  have  received 
a  blessing  from  the  Lord,  and  the  remarks  and  the  sermons  given  by 
our  brethren,  leaders  of  the  Church,  have  found  a  ready  place  in  our 
hearts,  because  we  are  in  need  of  this  kind  of  instruction  and  in  thh 
way  proper  impressions  are  made  on  our  lives,  from  time  to  time.  I 
rejoice  in  being  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  I  remember  very  well  the  day  I  was  baptized, 
when  eleven  years  of  age.  I  missed  the  opportunity  of  being 
baptized  sooner,  or  I  didn't  have  an  opportunity,  for  the  reason 
that,  when  my  father's  family  emigrated  from  the  city  of  Nauvoo,  just 
prior  to  his  leaving  his  home  in  that  city,  he  took  my  elder  brother 
and  my  elder  sister  down  to  the  Mississippi  river  and  baptized  and 
confirmed  them  members  of  the  Church.  I  was  only  seven  years  of 
age  and  he  explained  to  me  that  I  could  not  receive  baptism  and  be- 
come a  member  of  the  Church  until  another  year.  But  1  pleaded  with 
him,  and  he  finally  yielded  the  point  and  took  me  into  the  Mississippi 
river  and  baptized  me  for  my  health.  And  that  satisfied  me  for  the 
time.  An  opportunity  for  baptism  again  did  not  present  itself  until  I 
was  eleven  years  of  age. 

I  remember  very  well  the  day  and  the  person  who 
officiated.  Doctor  Orin  P.  Lee,  was  the  one  that  ad- 
ministered to  me  that  sacred  ordinance.  Just  near  by  the  bank  of 
the  creek  where  the  baptism  occurred  lived  my  uncle,   Phineas     H. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG  115 

Young.  I  returned  to  his  home  after  baptism,  and  there  I  met 
with  a  man  somewhat  famous  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  namely 
Oliver  Cowdery,  one  of  the  three  witnesses  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
one  who  wrote  the  manuscript  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  as  the  inter- 
pretation fell  from  the  lips  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Oliver  Cowdery 
was  numbered  as  the  second  elder  in  the  Church  at  the  time  of 
its  organization,  in  1830,  on  the  6th  day  of  April.  He  had  left  the 
Church  some  years  after  and  had  engaged  in  the  practice  of  law.  On 
one  occasion  an  opposing  counsel  said :  "How  can  you  listen  to  a  man 
who  has  proclaimed  that  he  is  a  follower  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  'Mor- 
mon' Prophet?  How  can  you  accept  of  his  testimony,  when  he  is  far 
off  in  his  calculations  of  things  that  occurred  in  a  most  natural  way, 
and  he  looks  at  things  from  a  spiritual  standpoint,  so  he  claims,  and 
was  at  one  time  an  associate  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  'Mormon'  Prophet, 
and  received  a  revelation,  so  he  states,  from  the  Lord?"  Oliver  Cow- 
dery, after  the  gentleman  had  exhausted  his  tirade  of  ridicule, 
arose  to  his  feet  and  said :  "May  it  please  your  honor,  I 
was  once  a  member  of  the  'Mormon'  Church.  I  was  associated  with 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  but  through  my  own  weakness  I 
have  been  disfellowshiped  by  that  people,  and  I  am  sorry  that 
this  ever  occurred."  And  with  tears  streaming  down  his  face,  he  de- 
clared that  if  the  opportunity  ever  presented  itself,  he  would  again 
ally  himself  with  the  "Mormon"  Church.  When  he  came  up  to  Kanes- 
ville  to  visit,  at  the  conference  held  in  1848,  under  the  direction  of 
Apostle  Orson  Hyde,  he  stopped  at  the  house  of  my  uncle,  Phineas 
Young,  and  that  is  where  I  met  him.  Oliver  Cowdery  had 
come  to  Kanesville  for  the  purpose  of  asking  to  be  again  admitted 
a  member  of  the  Church.  He  had  repented,  so  he  declared,  and  on  the 
stand  the  following  day,  in  making  the  request  to  President  Orson 
Hyde,  said :  "I  do  not  ask  for  place  or  power  or  station  or  any 
responsible  position.  All  I  ask  is  that  I  may  be  again  admitted  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  die  with 
my  record  a  member  of  the  Church."  His  request  was  granted  and  he 
returned  to  Richmond,  Missouri,  and  in  a  few  months,  died  and  was 
buried  there.  Early  in  the  70's  another  witness,  also  one  of  the  prin- 
cipal witnesses,  Martin  Harris,  came  to  Salt  Lake  valley.  He,  too,  had 
seceded  from  the  Church.  He  came  to  Utah  with  a  desire  to 
again  be  identified  with  this  people,  and  made  his  request  to  Presi- 
dent Brigham  Young.  In  bearing  his  testimony  that  day,  I  remember 
that  he  made  these  remarks :  "I  had  the  honor,  said  he,  "of  being 
the  scribe  for  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  translating  a  portion  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  but  through  my  carelessness  and  through  my  want 
of  foresight,  the  manuscript  that  I  had  written  was  lost,  and  never 
regained,  and  I  justly  received  censure  and  reprimand  from  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  Now  I  have  returned  to  the  bosom  of  the  Church  with 
the  hope  and  prayer  in  my  heart  that  I  may  again  be  admitted  a  mem- 
ber.    His   prayer   was   also  granted.        Soon  after  he  moved   up    to 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Clarkston  in  Cache  Valley  and  died  there,  and  his  body  was  buried  in 
the  cemetery  of  that  place. 

The  testimony  of  those  two  men,  I  have  always  remembered,  and 
as  they  bore  them  personally  they  seemed  overwhelmed  with  grief  and 
sorrow  to  think  they  had  forfeited  their  membership  in  the  Church  and 
their  rank  and  their  standing  as  they  had  it  at  first.  Men  who 
receive  the  testimony  of  the  gospel,  men  who  receive  the  witness  of 
the  divinity  of  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  men  who  re- 
ceive a  witness  of  the  divinity  of  the  Savior  and  his  great 
mission,  seldom  see  the  way  to  repent  after  they  have  lost  the 
faith,  .but  these  two  men  seemed  to  be  specially  favored  of  the  Lord, 
and  the  gift  of  repentance  had  not  entirely  been  blotted  out  from 
their  hearts,  and  according  to  their  prayers  they  were  restored  again 
as  members  of  the  Church. 

I  remember  very  well  that  soon  after  President  Brigham  Young 
had  returned  to  Winter  Quarters,  from  his  pioneer  visit  to  Salt  Lake 
Valley,  on  the  5th  day  of  December,  1847,  the  Twelve  gathered'  in  the 
house  of  Willard  Richards,  one  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  one  that  was 
ordained  in  Manchester,  England,  in  1840.  If  you  remember  the 
history  of  this  good  man,  he  was  chosen  an  apostle  before  he  left  for 
England,  at  the  time  of  President  Young's  mission  to  that  country, 
but  was  not  ordained  until  they  arrived  in  Manchester.  There 
were  five  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  found  in  the  city  of  Manchester 
at  that  conference,  and  the  proposition  was  made  that  Willard  Rich- 
ards be  ordained  an  apostle,  there  and  then,  making  him  the  sixth 
member  of  the  apostles  in  that  old  country  at  one  time. 
He  was  accordingly  ordained  by  President  Brigham  Young,  the  pres- 
ident of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  On  this  5th  day  of  December,  1847, 
the  Twelve  gathered  together  and  chose  and  elected  Brigham  Young 
to  be  the  prophet,  seer  and  revelator  to  and  president  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the 
world — that  was  the  exact  wording.  How  this  last  sentence 
thrilled  me.  President  Brigham  Young  chose  for  his  coun- 
selors. Elders  Heber  C.  Kimball  and  Willard  Richards.  I 
know  that  the  Saints  universally  acknowledged  President  Brigham 
Young  as  the  president  and  leader  of  the  Church,  before  he  was  called 
and  set  apart  by  the  rest  of  the  apostles,  for  when  Colonel 
Allen,  the  United  States  enlisting  officer,  came  up  from  Fort 
Leavenworth  to  Mount  Pisgah,  there  were  several  of  the  Twelve  en- 
camped at  that  point.  He  made  his  errand  known  to  them  and  asked 
if  it  were  possible  for  him  to  get  an  enlistment  of  five  hundred  able- 
boded  men  from  the  camps  of  the  "Mormon"  people,  to  go  to  Mexico 
to  fight  the  battles  of  our  country  under  General  Zachary  Taylor. 
The  brethren  listened  to  his  request  and  then  said :  "We  cannot  de- 
cide this  question  for  you,  Colonel  Allen.  There  is  but  one  man  that 
can  decide  it.    That  man  is  President  Brigham  Young.     He  is  at  the 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG  117 

present  time  encamped  near  Council  Eluffs,  on  the  Missouri  river.  If 
you  will  take  the  journey  with  us,  we  will  go  to  his  camp,  and  you 
may  ask  him  that  question  and  obtain  his  answer  for  yourself."  The 
question  of  raising  five  hundred  able  bodied  men  from  the  camps  of 
the  Saints  thus  leaving  their  wives  and  children  and  aged  parents  to 
the  mercy  of  the  camp  of  the  plains,  without  a  supply  of  food  and 
clothing  and  covering,  seemed  appalling  to  everyone ;  and, 
as  I  remember,  the  majority  of  the  apostles  did  not  take 
the  request  kindly,  but  after  discussing  the  matter,  President 
Brigham  Young  said:  "This  call  must  be  answered.  We 
must  furnish  the  men.  It  is  a  trial  of  our  faith.  It  is  a  test  of  our 
loyalty,  and  we  propose  to  furnish  the  men  as  the  Government  re- 
quires." 

Many  a  test  has  come  to  this  people,  many  a  trial  to  their 
faith.  In  the  loss  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the  Patriarch  Hyrum 
Smith,  and  then  finally,  as  one  leader  after  another  had  passed  away,  yet 
this  eternal  truth  and  testimony  of  President  Brigham  Young  has  al- 
ways found  a  ready  echo  in  the  hearts  of  every  Latter-day  Saint.  He  said 
when  the  news  of  the  martyrdom  reached  him  in  Boston,  "although 
the  leader  of  the  Church,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  has  been  taken 
away  from  us  by  violence,  his  blood  has  been  spilled,  he  has  sealed  his 
testimony,  but  he  did  not  take  with  him  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son 
of  God.  That  is  still  on  the  earth,  the  Twelve  Apostles  are  still  the 
representatives  holding  that  power  and  that  Priesthood,  committed  to 
them  by  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord. 

And  so  it  has  been,  from  time  to  time,  and  today  we  are  honored 
again  with  having  a  full  organization  of  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church  and  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  And  always  the 
Saints  have  recognized  at  a  glance  the  leadership  of  the  man  that 
has  been  chosen  to  lead  Israel  in  every  age  of  the  history  of  the 
Church ;  and  today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  are  assembled  here 
in  this  great  conference,  rejocing  in  the  fact  that  the  Church  is  grow- 
ing, is  marching  on,  is  increasing  in  strength  and  power,  commen- 
surate with  the  humility  and  the  firm,  determined  action  and  devo- 
tion of  its  members.  As  they  devote  themselves  to  the  cause,  so  the 
Lord  increases  his  blessings  upon  them.  So  their  reward  is  sure,  as 
sure  as  they  work  for  it  unselfishly.  Today  we  are  requested!  to 
promulgate  the  principles  of  truth  in  our  own  communities.  There 
are  many  non-"Mormons"  living  in  our  midst.  The  Seventies  quor- 
ums have  been  requested  to  furnish  missionaries  to  carry  the  gospel 
to  these  worthy  citizens  that  have  lived  in  our  midst,  some  of  them 
for  many  years  past.  I  met  one  of  our  brethren  recently  who  said :  "I  saw 
a  gentleman  who  has  been  a  neighbor  of  mine  for  years.  Said  he,  T 
have  been  to  your  meeting  tonight,  and  I  didn't  know  before  that  the 
"Mormons"  believed  in  Jesus  Christ  as  the  Savior  of  the 
world,  and  I  did  not  know  that  you  had  any  faith  in 
Jesus     Christ,     that    you    taught    that    he     died,     that    men    might 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

live.'  'Where  have  you  been?  Haven't  you  attended  our  meet- 
ings before?'  'No,  this  is  the  first  time  I  have  ever  attended  a 
"Mormon"  meeting  since  I  lived  in  your  community.'  "  The  neces- 
sity of  preaching  the  gospel  here  at  home  became  apparent  to  the  of- 
ficers of  the  wards  and  the  stakes  of  Zion,  and  now  this  movement 
of  preaching  the  word  to  all  of  our  neighbors  and  of  giving  them  a 
chance  to  know  of  the  divine  calling  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  the 
result  of  his  labors,  and  the  doctrines  that  we  believe  in,  will  reach 
these  people  who  live  in  our  communities,  who  have  not  known  it  here- 
tofore. And  this  1  believe  is  a  step  in  the  right  direction,  and  is  going 
to  result  in  very  much  good,  and  many  people  will  be  won  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth  without  cost  or  without  very  much  sacrifice  of  time 
and  means.  A  soul  here  in  Zion  is  just  as  precious  as  a  soul  that  is 
saved  abroad  in  the  nations  of  the  earth,  where  it  takes  many  hours 
and  days  and  weeks  of  time  and  considerable  expenditure  of  money 
to  convert  each  one.  The  principles  of  the  gospel  are  just  as  accept- 
able to  those  who  are  honest  in  heart,  who  live  in  our  midst,  as  those 
who  live  far  away,  and  the  elders  seem  delighted  with  the  work  that 
they  are  engaged  in,  and  seem  intent  upon  carrying  the  principles  of 
the  gospel  to  their  neighbors,  evincing,  more  than  ever  before,  that 
they  have  accepted  of  those  two  great  commandments  given  unto 
them :  "Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and 
with  all  thy  soul;  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself."  May  this  be  our 
prompting  sentiment  continually,  that  we  seek  the  welfare  of  others, 
that  we  seek  to  serve  one  another,  that  we  seek  to  do  good  to  our 
fellow  men  and  to  win  those  who  do  not  know  the  truth,  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  same,  at  any  sacrifice  that  we  are  called  to  make,  devoting 
our  time  and  our  best  energies  to  the  spread  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  that  we  may  stand  approved  and  acquitted  all  the  day 
long,  and  be  acceptable  to  him,  that  we  may  have  the  spirit  of  the 
gospel  within  us  continually,  and  the  knowledge  of  its  great  truths 
burning  within  our  hearts,  desiring  only  to  give  these  evidences  to 
others  that  they  may  profit  by  them.  I  pray  that  we  may  be  faithful 
to  this  end,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

Ralph  Jensen,  of  Heber,  and  David  Cook,  of  Syracuse,  sang  a  duet. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney,  in  the  course  of  his  impressive  remarks 
yesterday  afternoon,  very  solemnly  declared,  referring  to  our  faith, 
our  Church,  and  all  that  we  believe  and  all  that  we  are  doing — "This 
is  the  work  of  the  Lord."     Now,  is  it?    .1  wonder  sometimes  when  we 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  119 

say  those  things,  and  when  we  listen  to  them,  if  we  really  gather  into 
our  consciousness  all  that  that  means ;  or  whether,  in  many  instances 
at  ljeast,  it  takes  on  the  nature  of  a  mere  form  of  speech,  and  we  fail 
to  realize  all  that  is  involved  in  a  declaration  of  that  kind.  I  never  arose 
before  a  congregation,  perhaps,  where  I  felt  less  disposed  to  under- 
take the  task  of  speaking  to  the  people  than  I  do  here  and  now,  this 
afternoon.  After  Brother  Young,  of  the  First  Council,  was  called  to 
address  you,  and  the  likelihood  of  President  Grant  continuing  to  call 
upon  the  members  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  to  address  you  in 
the  order  of  their  standing,  made  it  likely  that  I  might  be  the  next 
called  upon,  I  have  been  able  to  think  of  nothing  else  but  just  this 
declaration  that  was  made  by  Elder  Whitney,  and  which  in  some  form 
or  other,  has  been  expressed,  I  think,  by  every  speaker  in  this  con- 
ference; and  since  this  is  the  only  idea  present  in  my  mind  just  now, 
I  propose  to  work  upon  that  for  the  few  minutes  that  I  am  to  speak  to 
you. 

And  now  the  question :  Is  this  work  we  are  engaged  in  the  work 
of  the  Lord?  And  if  it  is,  then  just  what  is  involved  in  that  state- 
ment? Why,  this  is  involved  in  it,  to  get  over  the  grounds  very 
hurriedly,  and  touching  only  the  high  points  in  relation  to  things.  If 
this  statement  of  our  brethren,  made  in  various  forms,  is  true,  then 
God  the  eternal  Father,  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  and  of 
worlds  and  world  systems,  through  Jesus  Christ  his  Son — together 
with  his  Son  Jesus  Christ — appeared  unto  a  mortal  man,  unto  a  young 
man,  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  Father  introduced1,  to  him  Jesus  the 
Christ,  He  who  was  taken  by  cruel  hands  and  crucified,  as  the  scrip- 
tures say,  for  the  sins  of  the  world;  and  as  he  himself  declared  over 
here  on  the  American  continent,  by  his  own  mouth,  that  He  was  the 
Redeemer,  and  had  been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the  world.  These  two 
heavenly  personages  appeared  unto  this  young  man  and  proclaimed 
what  they  alone  were  competent  to  proclaim,  that  all  the  religions  of 
the  world  were  untrue,  that  men  were  teaching  for  doctrines  the 
commandments  of  men,  that  they  had  forms  of  godliness,  but  denied 
the  power  thereof,  and  for  him  to  follow  after  none  of  these,  but 
giving  him  a  promise  that  if  he  was  faithful  he  would  be  chosen  as 
an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  God  for  re-establishing  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  restoring  the  Church  of  Christ  again  in  the  earth. 
Now,  if  this  work  that  you  and  I  are  connected  with  is  indeed  the 
truth,  then  that  splendid  but  awful  vision  and  announcement  is  a 
reality. 

Next  it  is  declared,  as  a  truth,  that  a  new  volume  of  scripture  was 
revealed — a  book  making  known  the  history  of  nations  that  flour- 
ished in  past  ages  upon  the  American  continents,  the  ruins  of  whose 
civilization  we  are  more  or  less  acquainted  with  through  its  surviving 
monuments  in  various  parts  of  America.  It  purports  to  be  a  record 
of  the  hand-dealings  of  God  with  millions  of  people  who  lived  and 
died  upon  these  western  continents,  among  whom  God  raised  up  in- 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

spired  men  to  teach  and  instruct  them  in  righteousness;  to  tell  them 
also  of  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  devised  from  before  the  founda- 
tion of  the  world.  These  prophets  held  divine  authority  to  teach 
the  plan  of  life  and  salvation.  Also  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  an 
account  of  the  most  splendid  vision  that  is  of  record,  on  the  appear- 
ing of  the  resurrected  Christ  to  man.  He  appeared  to  the  survivors 
of  the  awful  cataclysms  and  earthquakes  and  tempests  and  destruc- 
tive storms  that  passed  over  these  lands  of  America  during!  the 
crucifixion  and  the  entombment  of  the  Christ,  and  proclaimed  him- 
self to  be  the  life  and  light  of  the  world  and  the  savior  of  men.  If 
what  we  say  in  our  general  testimony  be  true,  then  this  volume  of 
scripture,  containing  the  testimony  for  God  of  sleeping  nations,  is 
a  verity. 

In  connection  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  three  other  men 
received  divine  testimony  of  the  verity  of  that  work;  for  three  men, 
namely  Oliver  Cowdery,  David  Whitmer  and  Martin  Harris,  testified 
that  an  angel  from  heaven  came  down  into  their  presence  and  showed 
to  them  the  original  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated.  In  their  presence  he  turned  over  the  leaves  of  this  ancient 
record  and  they  curiously  observed  the  engraving  and  saw  that  it 
was  of  fine  workmanship.  This  angel  declared  unto  them  that  the 
book  had  been  translated  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God,  and  was 
true;  while  the  very  voice  of  God,  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth,  the 
sustaining  power  of  all  worlds,  who  holds  them)  in  exact  balance,  and 
has  the  universe  under  the  control  of  his  almighty  will — He  com- 
manded them  to  testify  of  the  truth  of  this  record.  If  our  testimony 
that  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  the  work  of  God  is  true,  then 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  and  all  that  is  in  it  is  true. 

When  the  young  men,  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  were 
engaged  in  the  work  of  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  question 
of  baptism  came  up  in  their  minds,  its  purpose,  its  form,  what  was 
accomplished  through  it.  That  question  they  referred  through  prayer, 
to  the  Lord.  Then  John,  the  Baptist,  the  one  above  all  others  who 
would  know  all  about  baptism  and  who  would  be  a  perfect  instructor 
of  that  ordinance  and  doctrine,  he  whose  hands  held  the  body  of  the 
Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  when  he  buried  him  in  the  waters  of  baptism — 
he  came  and  gave  instructions  on  this  important  subject,  and  directed 
these  men  to  baptize  each  other;  and  conferred  upon  them  the  author- 
ity to  preach  repentance  and  baptize  others.  Again,  if  our  testimony 
to  this  work  is  true,  then  Peter  and  James  and  John,  'who  seem  to 
have  constituted  an  inner  circle  within  the  college  of  the  Apostles  in 
the  days  of  the  Christ,  who  were  with  the  Christ  on  several  special 
occasions  and  who  seemed  to  receive  special  attention  from  him  and 
privileges  from  the  Christ — these  three  men,  to  on^:  of  whom  the 
Christ  had  said :  "I  give  unto  you  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven" 
— these  three  apostles  came  and  conferred  the  Priesthood  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God,  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  121 

That  is  a  verity  if  our  testimony  is  true;  and  being  true  what  an 
important  thing  it  is !  Inspired  and  instructed  by  the  commandments 
of  God,  these  men,  now  holding  the  holy  apostleship,  proceeded  to  or- 
ganize once  more  the  very  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth  by 
divine  appointment  and  under  divine  authority. 

Subsequently,  when  the  fulness  of  times  for  such  things  had 
come,  then  Moses,  Elias  and  Elijah  appeared  in  the  Kirtland  Temple 
and  bestowed  upon  these  men  the  keys  of  authority  and  power  they 
held  while  they  were  on  the  earth.  Moses  restored  the  keys  for  the 
gathering  of  the  children  of  Israel ;  Elias,  perhaps  the  patriarchal 
order,  together  with  the  keys  or  authority  that  unlocked  the  knowl- 
edge that  was  to  link  together  the  families  of  men  in  all  nations,  and 
that  the  Lord  shall  at  the  last  combine  into  one;  family  all  the  children 
of  men.  Elijah  restored  those  keys  of  authority  that  shall  turn  the 
hearts  of  the  children  to  the  fathers,  and  doubtless  the  hearts  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children.  All  of  these  things,  and  each  one  of  them,  are 
true,  if  our  general  testimony  is  true.  The  renewal  of  the  promises 
and  the  hopes  and  assurances  of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  in- 
cluded in  the  work  we  call  the  work  of  God,  is  also  true.  Our  hopes 
in  Christ  Jesus  our  Lord  are  not  limited  to  our  hopes  and  visions  of 
things  in  this  our  mortal  life.  We  have  hope  anchors  within  the 
vail  that  hold.  The  vail  is  rent  to  our  vision  and  we  see  a  race  re- 
deemed and  raised  from  the  dead,  for  as  in  Adam  all  died,  so  in  and 
through  the  Christ  shall  a\\  be  made  alive.  And  the  race  shall  be 
united — bound  together  in  the  golden  chains  of  God's  love  and  human 
love.  The  same  unity  that  abounds  and  holds  in  the  government  of 
the  universe,  will  obtain  as  to  the  race  of  men.  A  unity  akin  to  that 
which  unites  in  one  the  Holy  Trinity — the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost.  Now,  when  we  say  that  this  Gospel,  Church  and  priest- 
hood of  ours  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  this  is  the  truth,  this  is 
what  we  mean :  All  these  things  that  I  have  enumerated,  severally  and 
collectively,  are  true.  Being  true,  how  splendid,  how  glorious  all 
this  is!  What  strength;  what  power;  what  faith;  what  hope;  what 
unity;  what  benevolence;  what  love,  ought  to  and  will  and  does 
abound  with  a  people  whose  faith  is  founded  upon  these  great  truths 
that  are  involved  in  our  faith  and  jn  our  Church !  The  world  is 
beginning  to  take  note  of  the  effect  of  a  people  having  such  a  faith 
as  this,  as  it  begins  to  be  manifested  in  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints ;  and  the  world  is  going  to  take  more  note  and  yet  more  note 
of  this  as  the  years  pass-  The  little  "all  hails,"  now  given  to  the  suc- 
cessful system  of  the  religion  that  is  fostered  and  advanced  by  the' 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  insignificant  in  com- 
parison with  that  greater  "all  hail,"  that  shall  yet  come  to  the  work  of 
God  of  which  we  testify. 

For  a  moment  let  me  call  your  attention  to  how  this  work  has 
been  built  up  by  witnesses  for  God.  When  the  Lord  would  com- 
mence this  great  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times,  a  dispensation 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

in  which  all  other  previous  dispensations  will  come  pouring  into,  as 
streams  find  their  way  to  the  ocean — when  he  would  begin  this  great 
work  of  establishing  faith  in  the  world,  he  began  by  creating  a  wit- 
ness for  himself,  one  who  could  testify  that  he  had  seen,  that  he  had 
heard,  that  he  had  received  instructions  from  the  very  lips  of  the 
resurrected  Son  of  God,  and  that  in  the  presence  of  the  Father — God 
raised  up  one  who  could  go  among  men  and  testify  that  he  had  seen 
and  heard  and  had  been  instructed  by  the;  God  of  the  whole  universe. 
God  raised  up  that  witness  to  himself,  and  though  he  was  young  and 
inexperienced,  and  though  persecuted  for  his  testimony,  reviled  and 
mocked,  men  could  not  move  by  one  hair's  breadth  that  witness  for 
God  from)  the  truths  that  he  had  proclaimed.  Unpalatable  as  it  was 
to  have  to  say  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  that  they  were  all  wrong, 
he  did  it,  though  it  tested  even  his  strength.  He  was  a  good  and  true 
witness. 

Then  when  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  brought  forth,  the  Lord 
found  and  equipped  with  knowledge  the  three  men  whom  he  would 
have  testify  to  the  truth  of  the  book ;  and  these!  witnesses  testified  and 
were  true  to  their  testimonies.  No  matter  what  else  happened  to  them, 
how  foolish  they  may  have  been,  or  how  stubborn  they  were  as  to  other 
matters,  they  remained  true  to  the  thing  that  God  had  called  them  to 
be  witnesses  of.  They  were  good  witnesses  and  I  do  not  know  but 
what  something  of  strength  has  been  added  to  the  weight  of  their 
testimony  by  reason  of  the  experiences  through  which  they  passed,  for 
in  good  report  and  evil  report,  in  the  Church  and  outside  of  it,  they 
remained  true  and  steadfast  to  that  testimony  which,  from  the  nature 
of  it,  I  cannot  conceive  how  it  could  be  possible  for  men  to  dare  to 
depart  from,  and  they  not  depart  from  it.  Well,  thesfe  three 
witnesses  were  commissioned  to  go  and  find  twelve  other  witnesses, 
special  witnesses  to  these  great  truths  that  God  is  unfolding  in  the 
dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times ;  and  they  found  the  twelve  wit- 
nesses who  became  the  twelve  apostles  of  the  Church,  especial  wit- 
nesses of  the  name  of  Christ  in  all  the  world,  holding  the  keys  of  the 
ministry  of  the  Church  in  foreign  nations — in  all  the  world ;  so  that 
when  the  door  of  the  Gospel  is  to  be  opened  to  any  nation,  one  or 
more  of  these  men  holding  these  keys  of  authority  and  power,  go 
to  these  nations  and  open  the  door  of  the  Gospel  formally,  for  the 
proclamation  of  the  truth.  There  is  a  long  list  of  such  openings  of 
doors  of  the  Gospel  to  various  nations,  and  in  each  case  it  has  been 
done  by  one  of  these  men  holding  this  divine-  commission  and  author- 
ity. But  you  begin  to  see  how  the  work  is  built  up  by  witnesses.  It 
will  readily  be  seen  how  twelve  men  are  not  equal  to  the  task  of  mak- 
ing proclamation  of  the  Gospel  in  all  the  world ;  and  so  assistants  are 
provided.  Men  are  gathered  into-  quorums  of  seventy,  and  each  quor- 
um is  presided  over  by  a  council  of  seven  men,  a  different  presidency 
from  any  of  the  other  quorums  of  the  Church,  and  doubtless  for  the 
reason  that  these  quorums  need  to  be  well  nigh  indestructible  at  the 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS  123 

head,  so  that  several  of  them  may  be  called  away  and  go  upon  mis- 
sions' for  some  length  of  time  and  yet  not  disrupt  the  organization. 
Well,  these  men  are  called  to  be  especial  witnesses  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  in  all  the  world,  to  testify  of  Christ  as  well  as  the  twelve  spe- 
cial witnesses,  or  apostles.  They  are  to  testify  of  his  divinity,  that  he 
is  indeed  the  very  Son  of  God,  chosen  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
in  whose  name  only  may  the  children  of  men  hope  for  salvation ;  also 
they  are  to  testify  of  the  resurrection  and  the  eternal  life  of  man 
through  Jesus  Christ — that  .eternal  life  which,  we  are  told,  God,  who 
cannot  lie,  promised  before  the  world  began.  Well,  these  men,  the 
twelve  and  the  seventy,  are  chosen  to  be  witnesses  of  these  things 
which  God  is  unfolding  in  the  world.  So,  indeed,  are  we  all  wit- 
nesses— all  have  the  right  to  have  the  witness  of  God's  spirit  to 
their  own  souls  that  all  this  mass  and  volume  of  truth  is  true,  is  the 
word  of  God;  so  that  in  a  way  all  the  Saints  may  receive  the  wit- 
ness of  these  things,  and  stand  up  before  each  other  and  the  world 
and  say  as  Elder  Whitney  and  the  rest  have  said  here,  that  this  work 
is  God's  work. 

Now,  I  happen  to  be  one  of  the  Seventy,  one  chosen  to  be  offi- 
cially a  witness  for  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  and  having  reviewed  all 
these  developments  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  involving  as  it  does  this 
blessed  thing  to  have  our  sins  forgiven,  and  oh  how  much  that  means ! 
It  has  been  my  fortune,  good  or  ill,  to  come  in  contact  with  men  whom 
I  have  seen  laboring  under  a  very 'agony  of  mental  and  spiritual 
distress  because  of  their  sins.  I  have  seen  them  break  down  and  cry 
out  in  their  agony  that  they  would  be  willing  to  give  a  right  arm  if 
only  such,  and  such  things  as  they  had  done  could  be  undone.  They 
would  gladly  give  their  lives  if  their  hands  could  only  be  washed  clean 
of  the  crimson  stain  of  human  life.  I  have  seen  men  under  the  stress 
of  agony  until  I  have,  in  part  at  least,  been  led  to  appreciate  how 
blessed  the  boon  is  that  we  may  have  forgiveness  of  sins.  One  other  of 
the  great  gifts,  and  one  of  the  greatest  mercies  of  God,  is  to  receive 
under  the  divine  authority  established  here  by  the  revelations  of  God. 
and  existent  in  the  priesthood,  the  right  to  be  baptized  of  the  Spirit 
that  a  baptism  takes  a  poor  human  life  up  into  union  with  the  Spirit 
life  of  God.  Who  shall  be  able  to  tell  how  great  that  blessing  is,  to  have 
God's  strength  become  available  to  man  as  strength ;  his  wisdom  for 
guidance  to  become  man's  wisdom ;  God's  strength  to  resist  evil,  his 
power  to  persist  in  good  is  given  to  man.  What  a  boon  it  is  to  have 
one's  spirit  united  with  the  Spirit  of  God  by  which  we  become  spirit- 
ually alive,  and  restored  to  that  blest  state  that  men  enjoyed  before 
that  thing  we  call  the  "fall"  had  happened.  Now,  in  the  presence  of 
all  this,  I  exercise  the  office  of  my  calling  as  one  of  the  witnesses  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  concerning  these  things.  Without  argument, 
without  debate,  without  even  an  elaborate  statement  of  the  things 
that  are  true,  only  having  brought  before  your  vision  just  how  large 
a  thing  it  is  to  say  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  depending 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

now  upon  the  spirit  that  is  within  you,  and  by  which  you  too  know  the 
truth,  with  nothing  between  us,  standing  more  than  heart  to  heart, 
spirit  touching  spirit,  your  spirit  meeting  mine,  our  spirits  congenial 
to  the  truth  and  of  such  nature  that  when  we  hear  the  truth  we  know 
the  truth ;  now,  in  this  attitude,  I  solemnly  declare  to  you  that  these 
things  that  make  up  our  history,  and  make  up  the  development  of 
the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  as  we  know  it,  I  say  to  you  that 
each  one  of  the  great  things,  and  above  that,  all  of  them  together,  are 
true.  And  I  say  it  conscious  that  I  am  speaking  where  God  hears  and 
takes  cognizance  of  things  that  are  said,  and  will  hold  men  to  an  ac- 
countability for  what  they  say.  I  say  unto  you,  in  very  deed,  and  out 
of  a  clear  conscience,  and  with  a  consciousness  of  it  being  approved 
of  God — I  say  to  you,  these  things  are  true ;  and  heing  true,  how 
strong,  and  noble,  and  brave,  and  broad  a  people  the  Latter-day  Saints 
ought  to  be ! 

O  God,  the  eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  thy  Son  Jesus,  the 
Christ,  our  Redeemer,  with  all  my  heart  and  soul  I  thank  thee  for  a 
knowledge  of  these  great  truths.  Seal  them  upon  our  hearts.  Let  us, 
O  Lord,  gather  unto  our  souls  the  strength  and  the  power  that  come 
from  thee ;  and  Thine  be  the  power  and  the  glory  forever  and  ever, 
worlds  without  end.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

CONCERNING  THE   JEWS. 

Some  of  you  may  be  familiar  with  the  agitation  that  is  going  on  at 
the  present  time,  in  the  publications,  against  the  Jewish  people.  There 
should  be  no  ill-will,  and  I  am  sure  there  is  none,  in  the  heart  of  any 
true  Latter-day  Saint,  toward  the  Jewish  people.  By  the  authority 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood  of  God,  that  has  again  been  restored  to  the 
earth,  and  by  the  ministration,  under  the  direction  of  the  Prophet  of 
God,  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  have  been  to  the  Ploly  Land  and 
have  dedicated  that  country  for  the  return  of  the  Jews ;  and  we  be- 
lieve that  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord  they  shall  be  in  the  favor  of  God 
again.  And  let  no  Latter-day  Saint  be  guilty  of  taking  any  part  in  any 
crusade  against  these  people.  I  believe  in  no  other  part  of  the  world 
is  there  as  good  a  feeling  in  the  hearts  of  mankind  towards  the  Jewish 
people  as  among  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  L.  Jones,  President 
of  the  Moapa  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  a.  m.  Tuesday,  April  5,  1921. 


THIRD  DAY 

Conference  continued  in  the  Tabernacle,  Tuesday  morning,  April 
5,  1921,  10  o'clock. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  announced  the  opening  of  the  service. 

The  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Elder  Andrew  Kimball,  President  of  the  St.  Joseph  stake  of  Zion, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  congregation  sang,  "O,  say  what  is  truth?"  the  favorite  hymn 
of  the  late  President  Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  announced  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

"Sweet  are  the  uses  of  adversity, 
Which,  like  the  toad,  ugly  and  venomous, 
Wears  yet  a  precious  jewel  in  his  head." 

For  a  good  many  months  w.e  have  been  laboring  as  a  people 
under  distressing  circumstances. 

THE  FINANCIAL  CONDITION. 

The  financial  conditions  which  have  prevailed  have  brought  many 
of  us  a  keener  appreciation  of  our  reliance  upon  the  Lord.  Every- 
where, so  far  as  I  know,  throughout  the  communities  that  go  to  make 
up  the  body  of  the  Church',  the  situation  has  been  fraught  with  finan- 
cial difficulty.  Men  have  discovered  that  they  could  not  continue  as 
they  had  been  wont  to  do,  for  the  last  several  years,  in  high  living, 
in  more  or  less  of  extravagance,  and  sustain  their  financial  positions. 
I  have  wondered  if  this  lesson  has  not  been  brought  to  us  for  the  pur- 
pose, in  large  measure,  of  vindicating  the  counsel  and  advice  and  the 
policies  of  the  Church,  extending  over  many,  many  years. 

OUR  TEMPORAL  AFFAIRS   TAKE   ON    RELIGIOUS   SIGNIFICANCE. 

It  is  sometimes  said  that  we  have  a  great  economic  mission.  I 
think  perhaps  the  use  of  that  phrase  is  not  calculated  to  define  quite 
the  exact  situation,  because  I  take  it,  the  Church  has  no  economic 
mission  as  such.  The  function  that  it  plays  in  the  economies  of  our 
people  and  of  the  world  is  a  function  that  is  merely  coincident  with 
its  great  purpose,  which  is  to  establish  the  kingdom  of  God  and  to 
provide,  through  the  facilities  which  it  offers,  opportunities  for  the 
development  of  men  and  women  in  conformity  to  the  principles  and 
the  truths  of  the  everlasting  Gospel.  Our  temporal  affairs  take  on 
a  religious  significance  and  importance,  not  merely  because  they  are 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

temporal  affairs,  but  because  we  interpret  our  religion  in  terms  of  life 
and  living.  There  can  be  no  salvation;  hereafter,  in  our  conception  of 
things,  unless  there  be  salvation  here.  We  hope  for  the  everlasting 
rewards  which  are  to  come  to  those  who  are  faithful^  by  the  devocion 
of  our  lives  to  the  service  of  our  Master  here  on  earth.  It  is  because 
we  so  inextricably  interweave  our  temporal  lives  with  our1  spiritual 
ones  that  we  regard  our  temporal  affairs  as  being  elemental  in  our 
spiritual  salvation. 

THE  ECONOMIC  MISSION  OF  THE  CHURCH. 

Having  in  mind  this  conception,  the  Church  does  have  a  great 
economic  mission  in  the  world  and  particularly  among  its  people.  I 
have  had  some  opportunity  in  the  assignments  made  to  rme  by  the 
presidency  of  the  Church  in  the  last  several  years,  to  make  some  ob- 
servations with  reference  to  the  place  and  function  of  the  Church  in 
the  temporal  or  financial  affairs  of  the  people,  and  I  desire  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  give  to  my  fellow  members  of  the  Church  the 
benefit  of  my  own  observations  and  my  testimony  upon  this  import- 
ant subject — I  say  important  because  I  recognize  the  fact  that 
throughout  the  Church,  among  all  men  and  women,  their  temporal 
or  financial  affairs  constitute  a  very  important  part  and  feature  of 
their  lives. 

The  Church  has  always  assumed  a  position  of  helpfulness.  In 
order  to  render  the  service  which  it  considers  it  ought  to  render,  it 
has  undertaken  to  give  support  to  various  commercial  and  economic 
enterprises  in  order  to  promote  the  general  welfare  of  the  people.  No 
little  criticism  has  been  directed,  both  on  the  part  of  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church,  or  at  least  a  limited  portion  of  the  membership 
of  the  Church,  and  from  outside  sources,  toward  this  engagement  in 
economic  affairs. 

When  we  are  confronted  with  adverse  conditions  we  come  to 
learn  the  advantage  which  accrues  from  the  association  of  the  Church 
in  the  business  affairs  of  the  people.  I  believe  that  aside  from  the 
great  mission  that  the  Church  has  performed  in  stimulating  legitimate 
industry  and  enterprises  among  the  people,  the  Church  does  now  per- 
form (and  it  is  brought  forcibly  to  our  attention  in  these  strenuous 
times),  a  great  mission  in  stabilizing  business  of  our  communities. 
I  give  it  to  you  as  my  deliberate  judgment  that  had  it  not  been  for  the 
influence  which  the  Church  has  exercised  in  the  fundamental  bus- 
mess  affairs  of  our  part  of  the  country  during  these  strenuous  times 
we  would  have  seen  catastrophes  that  would  have  made  us  tremble. 
It  is  my  belief  that  were  it  not  for  the  fact  that  the  president  of  our 
own  Church  stands  at  the  head  of  some  of  the  commercial  institu- 
tions of  our  intermountain  country,  they  could  scarcely  have  stood 
under  the  conditions  which  these  hard  times  have  laid  upon  us. 

I  regard  the  whole  situation  as  a  vindication  of  the  inspiration 
that  has  come  to  the  leadership  of  our  Church.     For  my  own  part,  I 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  127 

here  and  now  repent  of  any  thought  or  criticism:  that  has  ever  been 
in  my  heart  for  the  participation  of  the  Church  in  the  temporal  af- 
fairs of  the  people,  and  I  believe  that  the  present  situation  warrants 
a  similar  attitude  on  the  part  of  any  man  or  woman  in  this  Church 
who  may  have  entertained  the  notion  that  it  is  wrong  for  our  lead- 
ers to  concern  themselves  with  these  temporalities  that  offer  employ- 
ment, and  in  a  measure  regulate  and  ,serve  to  provide  our  business 
opportunities. 

THE  ADVICE  TO   KEEP  OUT  OF  DEBT,  NOT  GENERALLY  LIVED  UP  TO. 

The  advice  that  has  come  to  the  people  throughout  these  many 
years  has  been  to  keep  free  from  the  obligations  of  debt.  A  few  have 
accepted  the  advice.  Thousands  have  not.  They  find  themselves  in 
distressing  condition  at  the  present  time.  The  vindication  of  that 
advice  lies  in  the  fact  that,  as  a  people,  we  would  today  be  in  a  posi- 
tion of  great  advantage,  we  would  be  table  to  extend  your  economic 
advantage  all  over  our  intermountain  country,  we  would  be  in  a  posi- 
tion to  initiate  new  enterprises,  we  could  reclaim  and!  put  to  use  many 
of  our  resources,  if  we  had  only  accepted  the  advice.  But  we  have  not 
in  the  main  accepted  and  lived  up  to>  that  advice.  In  consequence  we 
find  that  as  a  people,  as  a  community,  we  are  indebted,  in  sums  of 
money  that  are  almost  staggering  in  their  contemplation.  At  the  pres- 
ent moment  there  is,  owing  to  the  Federal  Reserve  Bank,  which  is  lo- 
cated in  this  district,  and  which  serves  the  territory  in<  which  our  peo- 
ple mainly  reside,  between  thirty  and  forty  millions  of  dollars,  a  large 
portion  of  which  represents  obligations  of  our  people.  We  will  have 
to  pay  that  great  debt. 

WE  MUST  BE  SAVING  AND  ECONOMICAL. 

We  will  have  to  square  ourselves  with  our  creditors,  and  I  know 
of  only  one  way  in  which  we  can  do  it,  and  that  is  by  adopting  and 
putting  into  practice  the  counsel  and  the  advice  that  has  been'  given  by 
the  leadership  of  the  Church  for  these  many  years.  We  must  save, 
we  must  be  economical  in  our  living.  We  must  patronize  our  home 
industries  and  institutions.  I  believe  that  it  will  be  possible  for  us 
not  only  to  pay  off  all  the  obligations  that  we  owe,  if  we  live  ac- 
cording to  the  standards  that  have  been  set  for  us,  but  that  it  will  be 
possible  for  us  to  continue  the  development  of  our  resources  and  it  will 
be  possible  for  us  to  go  forward  and  to  initiate  and  maintain  such 
enterprises  as  shall  make  for  the  general  welfare  of  all  the  people.  I 
propose  that  we  take  into  our  living  some  of  the  fundamental  con- 
ceptions of  our  faith,  and  so  enable  us  the  better  to  follow  this  ad- 
vice and  counsel  which  has  come  to  us  from  time  to  time. 

OUR   SUBSTANCE    NOT   TO   BE   DEVOTED   TO    SELFISH    ENDS    AND    PURPOSES. 

I  am  indebted  to  Brother  Rulon  S.  Wells  for  a  thought  that  I 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

wish  to  give  to  you  at  this  time.  I  remember  upon  one  occasion  his 
presentation  of  this  conception  of  our  faith ;  not  only  is  a  man  obli- 
gated to  give  one-tenth  of  his  increase  to  the  Church  as  a  tithing, 
but  that  in  the  proper  conception  of  his  relationship  to  the  Lord  and 
his  work,  he  is  obligated  to  devote  and  to  consecrate  all  of  his 
wealth  and  substance  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  grant  you  that 
upon  the  first  consideration  that  doctrine  would  seem  to  entail  a 
responsibility  to  which  we  could  not  live,  but  does  it?  Is  not  every- 
thing that  we  enjoy  a  gift  of  God?  Is  not  all  the  wealth  that  comes 
into  our  hands  to  he  used  by  us  for  the  furtherance  of  his  purposes? 
What  man  is  entitled  to  say  to  himself,  even  if  he  has  paid  his  tith- 
ing, "All  of  the  remainder  of  this  substance  belongs  to  me?  It  is 
at  my  disposal  to  bp  used  for  the  furtherance  of  my  own  selfish  ends 
and  purposes."  Is  it  not  by  far  the  nobler,  the  finer  conception  to 
say :  "All  of  this  substance  is  mine,  as  a  steward,  to  be  used  by  me 
for  the  establishment  of  our  Father's  work?  I  don't  need  it  all  just 
for  myself,  but  I  do  need  it  for  the  maintenance  of  the  institutions 
that  are  necessary  to  the  establishment  of  the  Church  and  society." 
The  man  who  maintains  a  good  home  is  devoting  his  substance 
to  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  The  man  contributes  to  the  proper 
environment  to  his  fellows  and  who  uses  his  means  for  the  mainten- 
ance of  institutions  which  tend  to  build  up  the  country,  is  not  de- 
voting his  substance  to  ,'selfish  ends  and  purposes.  Some  incre- 
ment may  come  to  him  but  he  is  really  building  up  the  kingdom  of 
God,  he  is  helping  to  establish  the  people,  he  is  making  of  this  the 
Land  of  Zion  which  it  was  intended  to  be  and  is  intended  to  be,  and  so 
in  that  larger  sense,  is  it  not  a  proper  conception  of  our  relationship  to 
our  Father  and  to  his  work  to  say  that  all  that  we  have,  that  every 
grain  of  substance  that  comes  to  us  is  to  be  devoted  and  consecrated 
to  the  establishment  of  our  Father's  work?  Furthermore,  will  not 
that  conception  bring  to  us  a  greater  measure  of  happiness  and  de- 
votion and  contentment?  Will  we  not  all  feel  that  in  so  using  our 
means  we  are  in  very  deed  serving  our  Master?  I  know  of  no 
greater  contentment  and  happiness  and  satisfaction  that  can  come  to 
a  human  soul  than  to  feel  that  to  the  extent  of  his  capacity  aind 
ability  he  is  indeed  serving  our  Father  who  is  in  heaven. 

THE  CALL  TO  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  IN  THESE  DEPRESSING  TIMES. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  cannot  but  think  that  if  we  obey  the 
counsel  that  has  come  to  us,  if  we  act  in  the  light  of  the  great  truth 
that  has  been  revealed  to  us,  and  devote  ourselves  to  the  establish- 
ment of  our  Father's  work  with  all  our  mind,  might,  strength  and 
substance,  that  our  Father  will  bless  us  to  the  accomplishment  of  the 
great  ends  and  purposes  that  we  have  in  view.  I  have  always  be- 
lieved that  the  Lord  intended  that  we  should  enjoy  the  material 
comforts  that  can  be  afforded  to  us  in  this  life.  I  have  never  felt 
that  he  intended  us  to  be  in  poverty.     I  have  believed  that  he  has 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  129 

planned  that  the  earth  should  yield  of  her  substance  and  her  riches 
to  those  who  are  righteous  and  who  keep  the  commandments.  I  be- 
lieve that  the  call  to  us  at  this  time,  in  these  distressing  financial 
conditions,  is  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  establish 
ourselves  in  the  various  lines  of  industry  that  are  open  to  us ;  to  de- 
velop the  resources  of  our  country,  to  live  economically;  to  put  into 
practice  the  great  lessons  of  thrift  that  have  been  given  to  us,  and 
to  devote  our  all  to  the  establishment  of  this  great  work.  I  know 
that  if  we  so  do,  it  will  bring  to  us  the  blessings  of  heaven  and  that 
the  Lord  will  give  us  a  greater  measure  of  his  Spirit  and  that  in  the 
attempt  that  we  make  to  be  self-sacrificing  and  to  be  careful  and 
economical  there  will  come  among  our  people  more  of  the  spirit  of 
love  and  unison  and  harmony.  I  believe  that  there  will  be  less  de- 
sire to  build  up  one's  self  at  the  expense  of  others. 

SATISFACTION    COMES   THROUGH    ALTRUISTIC    MOTIVES. 

Indeed  I  think  that  the  time  is  upon  us  when  we  must  consider 
our  whole  economic  situation.  It  is  not  a  time  for  anyone  to  pros- 
per at  the  disadvantage  or  expense  of  another.  This  must  be  in 
order  to  have  a  general  economic  balance.  All  men  must  share  in 
the  burdens  as  well  as  in  the  advantages.  There  must  be  more  or 
less  of  an  even  distribution  of  these  advantages  and  these  burdens. 
One  class  of  people  allied  in  any  common  industry  cannot  hope  to 
acquire  for  themselves  wages  and  conditions  that  are  not  consonant 
with  the  conditions  that  prevail  with  other  classes  of  people. 

What  we  really  need  is  the  application  of  the  religious  princi- 
ple to  all  of  our  living.  There  is  nothing  more  needed  in  all  this 
world  today  than  the  application  of  the  principles  announced  by  the 
Savior  of  the  world.  Our  great  economic  problems  can  never  be 
solved  with  selfishnes  dominant  in  the  hearts  of  men.  Men  will 
never  be  satisfied  with  bigger  wages  and  with  bigger  properties  and 
bigger  holdings.  The  only  way  that  real  satisfaction  can  come  to 
people  is  that  they  shall  be  actuated  by  altruistic  motives  that  give 
them  a  regard  for  and  an  interest  in  the  welfare  of  their  neighbors. 
That  is  the  purpose  of  true  religion.  Never  was  it  more  needed  in 
the  history  of  the  world  than  today.  We  must  set  an  example  to 
the  world.  My  judgment  is  that  all  of  our  preaching,  all  of  our 
books,  will  never  be  comparable  with  the  examples  that  we  set  in 
our  living  here  at  home.  The  sermon  of  our  own  lives  will  do  more 
to  convert  the  people  of  the  world  to  the  principles  of  truth,  than 
any  other  single  force  or  factor  that  we  possess. 

My  humble  prayer  is  that  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  conform  to  the 
advice  and  counsel  that  come  from  the  leadership  of  our  Church ; 
that  he  will  establish  us  in  the  faith;  that  he  will  give  us  vision  and 
conception  of  the  great  mission  and  destiny  of  this  work;  that  we 
will  indeed  be  led  to  consecrate  all  that  we  have,  all  that  God  gives 
us,  for  the  establishment  of  his  kingdom  and  for  the  carrying   for- 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

ward  of  his  mighty  work,  for  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men. 
I  pray  for  this  blessing  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  unto  my  heavenly  Father  for  the 
name  and  standing  which  I  hold  in  this  Church.  I  thank  him  for  the 
restoration  of  his  glorious  gospel,  through  the  instrumentality  of  his 
prophet,  Joseph  Smith.  My  heart  is  full  of  appreciation  of  that  gos- 
pel, for  all  of  its  gifts  and  blessings  that  we  are  today  in  the  enjoy- 
ment of.  There  are  many  of  these  blessings  to  which  we  have  become  so 
accustomed  that  we  sometimes  fail  to  appreciate  them,  and  yet  if  we 
were  deprived  of  them  by  being  separated  from  the  Church,  we  would 
then  feel  what  a  loss  it  was  indeed.  The  blessings  of  the  gospel  are 
felt  in  the  homes  of  all  faithful  Latter-day  Saints.  The  power  of  God 
is  manifest  in  the  intercourse  which  we  hold  in  our  family  circles  and 
in  our  associations  with  one  another,  in  our  coming  together  in  meet- 
ings, in  offering  up  prayers  and  feeling  the  presence  of  his  Holy  Spirit, 
in  the  healing  of  the  sick,  and  in  untold  many  ways  arc  we  in  the  en- 
joyment of  these  splendid  blessings  which  come  by  reason  of  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  But  there  is  one  blessing  that  exceeds  all  the 
others  and  embodies  within  it  all  the  blessings  of  the  gospel.  It  is 
God's  greatest  gift  unto  his  children — eternal  life.  And  to  obtain  this 
blessing  all  members  of  the  Church  should  be  zealously,  energetically 
striving  with  all  their  might.  It  is  indeed  far  more  valuable  to  us 
than  all  other  things  that  we  can  possibly  conceive  of,  for  it  means  all 
that  the  name  implies,  eternal  life.  And  we  must  not  think  that  this 
is  limited  to  the  usual  conception  of  a  never  ending  life,  for  we  have 
a  much  broader  meaning  to  that  term  than  merely  that  we  shall  continue 
to  live  after  we  have  "shuffled  off  this  mortal  coil."  No  indeed,  it 
means  coming  forth  in  the  resurrection  from  the  dead,  crowned  with 
immortality  and  eternal  life,  and  in  that  term  we  mean  an  exalted  life 
in  the  presence  of  God,  for  he  is  indeed  the  very  Eternal  One  and  eter- 
nal life  means  his  life,  to  live  with  him  forevermore,  to  receive  from 
him,  as  has  been  promised,  "all  that  the  Father  hath" — all  this  is  em- 
bodied in  that  great  and  wonderful  blessing  which  we  call  eternal  life. 

How  then  are  we  to  obtain  eternal  life,  to  secure  to  ourselves  and 
to  our  families  that  wonderful  blessing  that  is  beyond  compare?  By 
keeping  the  commandments.  We  all  remember  reading  in  the  New 
Testament  of  the  young  man  who  came  to  the  Savior  and  said:  "Good 
Master,  what  good  thing  shall  I  do,  that  I  may  obtain  eternal  life?" 
And  the  answer  was :  "Keep  the  commandments.-'  And  when  he  asked 
which,   a    few   of   these   were    enumerated :      "All   these   things    have 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  131 

I  kept  from  my  youth  up;  what  lack  I  yet?"  Then  the  word  of  the 
Lord  came  to  him:  "If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  sell  that  which  thou  hast, 
and  give  to  the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  a  treasure  in  heaven ;  and  come 
and  follow  me."  And  let  it  be  known  that  eternal  life  applies  to  those 
who  are  made  perfect  and  not  to  any  others,  for  no  unclean  thing  can 
dwell  in  the  presence  of  God  forever.  We  are  living  in  this  world  and 
passing  through  a  probationary  period.  These  are  the  days  of  our  pro- 
bation, the  days  when  we  are  to  be  tried  to  find  out  whether  or  not 
we  will  serve  God  or  Mammon. 

What  did  it  mean  to  him,  when  the  Savior  said  that  he  should  sell 
that  which  he  had,  for  he  was  a  wealthy  young  man,  and  had  great  pos- 
sessions, and  should  give  to  the  poor  and  come  and  follow  the  Master? 
If  he  followed  that  injunction  he  would  cease  to  worship  Mammon,  he 
would  serve  God,  would  cease  to  be  selfish  and  greedy  in  his  nature, 
and,  casting  all  that  aside,  give  proof  that;  he  loved  God  more  than  he 
loved  Mammon. 

"Come  and  follow  me."  What  does  that  mean?  Was  not  the 
Savior  tempted  just  as  you  and  I  are  tempted,  when  he  had  fasted  in 
the  wilderness  and  Satan  came  unto  him  and  offered  him  all  the 
kingdoms  of  the  world  and  wealth  and  fortune  and  all  that  he  could 
get  if  he  would  only  bow  down  and  worship  Satan.  We  must  have 
the  strength  and  power  to  resist  temptations.  What  was  the  Savior's 
reply :  "It  is  written,  Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  him 
only  shalt  thou  serve."  Likewise  we  must  declare  our  allegiance  to 
God  and  resist  the  power  of  Satan. 

It  means  this,  that  if  we  are  to  inherit  eternal  life,  or  obtain  that 
greatest  of  all  blessings  that  is  within  the  gift  of  God  we  must 
sanctify  and  purify  our  souls.  "The  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of 
man,  and  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul." 
Then  this  soul  of  thine  "must  needs  be  cleansed  or  sanctified  from  all 
unrighteousness."  Why?  "That  it  may  be  prepared  for  the  celestial 
glory."  Does  not  that  mean  the  same  thing?  Eternal  life,  to  our  way 
of  thinking,  means  the  obtaining  of  celestial  glory,  and  if  we  attain  to 
that  glory  it  will  be.  because  we  live  according  to  the  law  of  the  celes- 
tial kingdom,  and  that  means  that  we  shall  sanctify  and  purify  our 
souls  from  all  unrighteousness.  It  means  that  we  are  to  follow  Christ. 
His  was  a  life  of  devotion,  a  blameless  life,  a  life  without  sin,  without 
corruption,  without  yielding  to  the  power  of  the  adversary.  It  there- 
fore behooves  us  that  we  shall  practice  in  our  lives  that  great  and  fun- 
damental principle,  that  saving  principle  of  repentance  from  sin ;  for, 
unlike  the  Savior,  we  are  sinners,  and  have  need  of  repentance.  It 
means  that  we  shall  give  of  our  substance,  and  help  those  that  are 
in  need.  It  means  that  we  are  to  place  the  kingdom  of  God  before  all 
other  things.  It  means  more  than  merely  taking  the  initial  steps  of 
faith,  repentance,  and  baptism,  at  the  time  of  our  admission  into  the 
Church.     This,  of  course,  is  a  good  start — the  right  beginning,  and 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

through  it  we  obtain  the  remission  of  sins  and,  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands,  the  companionship  of  God's  Holy  Spirit.  But  it  also  means 
that  we  must  continue  to  have  faith  in  God,  and  have  faith  unto  re- 
pentance, as  long  as  we  are  not  perfect  in  our  lives,  for  the  principle  of 
repentance  has  been  given  to  us  that  we  might  sanctify  our  hearts  and 
purify  our  souls,  and  prepare  ourselves  to  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God, 
for  that  celestial  glory,  for  that  eternal  life  that  has  been  promised 
to  the  faithful.  But  this  we  cannot  do,  unless  we  shall  engage  in  the 
good  fight  of  faith,  resisting  temptation  in  whatever  form  it  may  come, 
and  not  permitting  ourselves  to  be  led  away  by  the  allurements  of 
wealth  and  its  uses  for  greedy  and  selfish  purposes. 

All  that  we  have  and  all  that  we  are  should  be  devoted  to  the  service 
of  God,  and  that  doesn't  prevent  us  from  engaging  in  laudable  enter- 
prises. It  doesn't  preclude  us  from  the  enjoyment  of  the  proper 
pleasures  of  life,  it  doesn't  hinder  us  from  supporting  and  sustaining 
our  families  and  educating  our  children,  for  all  this  and  everything 
that  we  do  that  is  right  is  truly  a  service  to  God ;  but  when  we  forget 
God  and  worship  at  the  shrine  of  the  god  of  this  world,  even  Mam- 
mon, seeking  riches  for  the  gratifying  of  selfish  lusts,  securing  it  by 
questionable  methods — by  cheating,  fraud,  deception,  misrepresenta- 
tion, no  matter  how,  but  getting  it  by  fair  means  or  foul ;  or,  in  other 
words,  when  the  devil  taketh  us  up  into  an  exceeding  high  mountain 
and  showeth  us  all  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  and  their  glory  and 
splendor,  and  wealth,  and  sayeth  unto  us  as  he  is  wont  to  say :  "All 
these  things  will  I  give  you,  if  you  will  fall  down  and  worship  me," 
then,  O  Latter-day  Saints,  "follow  Christ,"  and  set  yourselves  as 
steel  against  the  fiery  darts  of  the  adversary  and  say  as  the  Savior 
said :  "Get  thee  hence,  Satan,  for  it  is  written,  Thou  shalt  worship  the 
Lord  thy  God,  and  him  only  shalt  thou  serve." 

What  good  thing  shall  we  do  that  we  may  have  eternal  life  ?  Follow 
the  admonition  of  the  Apostle  Paul  to  Timothy :  "Fight  the  good  fight 
of  faith,  lay  hold  on  eternal  life,"  for  unto  this  we  have  been  called 
through  our  acceptance  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  which  is  the  gos- 
pel of  repentance,  and  it  enjoins  upon  all  a  life  of  repentance  from 
sin,  and  promises  salvation  only  to  him  "that  endureth  to  the  end." 
We  live  in  a  world  of  sin  and  are  subjected  to  its  temptations.  The 
good  fight  is  one  of  resistance  to  the  arch  enemy  of  God.  "Blessed  is 
the  man  that  endureth  temptation,  for  when  he  is  tried  he  shall  receive 
the  crown  of  life  which  the  Lord  has  promised  to  them  that  love  him." 

Then  let  us  follow  Christ,  resist  temptation,  cleave  unto  his  word 
and  eternal  life  will  be  our  sure  reward.  God  grant  that  it  may  be 
so.     Amen. 

Elder  John  Robinson  sang  a  solo  entitled,  "Joseph,"  violin  ac- 
companiment by  W.  C.  Give. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN  133 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the  California  ' 

Mission. ) 

Tt  is  certainly  a  very  great  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
attend  a  General  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  to  have  the  privilege  to  listen  to  the  splendid  counsels  that 
are  imparted  by  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  to  partake 
of  that  good  spirit  that  prompts  the  presiding  authorities  as  they  un- 
dertake to  expound  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel  and  to  counsel  the  peo- 
ple to  walk  in  those  paths  that  will  be  for  their  best  advantage.  It  is 
also  a  very  great  privilege  to  have  the  opportunity  of  standing  up  in  one 
of  these  great!  conferences  to  bear  testimony  to  the  truth  that  has 
been  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  the  children  of  men  in  this  great  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times.  And  with  this  privilege  there  is  also 
a  very  great  responsibility  which  causes  men  to  have  more  or  less  anxiety 
at  the  thought  of  attempting  to  discharge  the  duty  that  is  placed  upon 
them,  when'  they  are  called  to  stand  up  in  the  midst  of  the  people  for  a 
few  moments  as  spokesmen. 

My  labors,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  many  of  you  no  doubt 
know,  are  at  present  in  the  California  mission.  When  I  left  Los  Ange- 
les a  few  days  ago,  the  appearance  of  things  in  that  part  of  the  land 
were  about  as  contrary  to  what  we  see  around  the  outside  in  this  stormy 
weather  as  one  could  well  imagine.  Southern  California,  at  this  par- 
ticular period  of  the  year,  is  probably  as  beautiful  a  country,  in  many 
parts  of  it,  as  could  be  found  anywhere  upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  I 
had  the  pleasure,  just  a  few  days  ago,  of  being  in  the  company  of  Elder 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  in  attending  services  in  San  Bernardino  and  also 
in  Los  Angeles,  and  as  we  were  traveling  from  the  city  of  San  Bernar- 
dino these  brethren  burst  out  again  and  again  with  exlamations  of  sur- 
prise and  joy  at  the  beauty  of  the  scenery  through  which  we  passed,  for 
we  traveled  through  vast  sections  of  great  orange  groves ;  and  along 
the  roadway,  continuously,  I  might  say,  there  were  great  clusters  of 
blooming  roses  and  geraniums  and  other  flowers  that  were  indeed  beau- 
tiful to  lock  upon. 

I  am  very  happy  to  report  in  this  conference  that  the  California 
mission  is  making  fair  advancement.  I  suppose  men  who  are  engaged 
in  the  missionary  work  in  every  part  of  the  world  would  be  glad  if  they 
could  make  better  headway  than  they  do.  California,  as  you  know,  is 
a  land  that  is  given  much  to  pleasure.  Thousands,  I  suppose  hun- 
dreds of  thousands,  of  people  come  to  California  every  year  to  escape 
cold  weather  in  other  sections,  and  to  enjoy  and  spend  the  means  that 
they  have  been  blessed  with,  and  people  who  come  for  such  purposes 
are  not  very  willing  to  listen  to  the  teachings  of  the  servants  of  God,  as 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

they  undertake  to  bring  to  the  attention  of  men  the  message  that  has 
been  committed  into  their  care.  And  yet  I  am  happy  to  say  that  we 
continually  find  a  few  people  who  become  pricked  in  their  hearts,  and 
who  do  investigate  the  message  of  the  gospel,  and  who  are  brought  to 
the  waters  of  baptism  and  become  numbered  with  the  people  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We  have  been  very 
greatly  blessed  in  the  California  Mission  in  having  occasional  visits  from 
the  President  of  the  Church,  and  from  other  prominent  brethren,  and 
they  have  always  manifested  a  very  ready  willingness  to  go  into  the 
branches  of  the  Church  and  to  meet  people  face  to  face  and  bear  testi- 
mony to  them  in  relation  to  the  truth.  We  have  been  blessed  in  this 
regard  to  a  very  great  extent.  President  H'eber  J.  Grant,  during  the 
past  year,  I  suppose  has  visited  the  branches  in  Oakland,  California, 
and  in  San  Francisco,  and  at  San  Jose,  in  Ocean  Park,  Los  Angeles, 
Long  Beach,  Santa  Anna,  San  Diego,  and  San  Bernardino ;  and  a  little 
further  back,  we  had  him  also  at  Gridley,  in  the  Sacramento  Valley, 
where  we  have  a  large  number  of  people  who  are  engaged  in  agricul- 
tural pursuits. 

The  California  Mission  has  a  membership  of  about  six  thousand 
two  hundred  souls.  These  people,  to  a  very  great  extent,  are  not  con- 
verts that  have  been  made  in  the  mission  field,  but  they  are  men  and 
women  who  have  been  born  and  reared  in  the  Church,  with  their  fami- 
lies. We  have  a  great  many  men  in  the  California  Mission  who  have  had 
splendid  experiences  in  the  Church,  who  have  been  abroad  in  the  world 
as  preachers  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  have  been  in  stake 
presidencies_  and  in  high  councils  and  in  bishoprics,  and  who  have  occu- 
pied other  prominent  positions  in  the  Church ;  men  and  women  who 
are  still  established  in  the  faith  of  the  gospel,  who  love  the  truth,  who 
have  come  for  various  reasons  from  their  former  homes  to  make 
homes  in  the  state  of  California.  We  have  had,  during  the  past  year, 
a  very  remarkable  experience,  in  that  a  very  large  number  of  our  people 
have  come  from  the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion  to  make  homes  in  Califor- 
nia. There  has  been  received  during  the  year,  something  over  twelve 
hundred  souls,  who  have  come  with  recommends,  and  have  united  with 
the  branches  in  the  California  Mission,  and  then  there  are  a  great  many 
others  who  have  come  into  the  mission  who  have  not  brought  transfers, 
and  a  great  many  that  wc  haven't  met.  We  have  been  .trying  to 
extend  the  missionary  labors,  going  into  communities  where  the  gospel 
has  not  been  preached,  that  we  know  of.  to  any  extent  in  that  section. 
We  have  never  been  able  to  send  the  missionaries  into  any  locality  in 
the  state  where  they  have  not  discovered  men  and  women  who  claim 
membership  in  the  Church.  In  every  little  community  wherever  the 
missionaries  have  resided  for  any  length  of  time,  they  have  come  in 
contact  with  these  Church  members  who  have  practically  been  lost  for 
a  considerable  period  of  time  and  haven't  had  recognition  in  the  mission. 
This  has  resulted  in  quite  a  large  number  of  additions  in  the  organiza- 
tions that  have  been  effected  in  the  California  mission.     It  might  not 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN  135 

be  out  of  place  in  this  conference  to  call  attention  to  some  of  these 
increased  organizations.  In  .1918,  there  were  eighty-five  Church  or- 
ganizations in  the  California  mission.  In  1919,  they  were  increased  to 
one  hundred  and  fifteen  organizations.  In  1920  and  1921,  they  have 
been  increased  to  one  hundred  sixty-two  organizations,  which  means 
that  .there  have  been  seventy-seven  additional  Church  organizations. 
They  cover  conferences,  branches,  Relief  Societies,  Young  Ladies'  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Associations,  Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociations, Primaries,  Sunday  Schools,  and  one  Religion  Class.  You 
will  reach]}''  discern,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  with  this  increased 
number  of  organizations,  a  very  large  number  of  men  and  women,  be- 
tween two  and  three  hundred,  who  have  heretofore  not  had  any  direct 
responsibility  resting  upon  them  as  officers  in  the  Church  have  now  been 
brought  to  feel  that  they  are  under  an  increased  obligation  to  render 
service  in  the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  Of  course,  this  has 
increased  the  spiritual  strength  of  the  people  in  these  various  localities, 
and  men  and  women  have  been  aroused  to  a  better  performance  of  the 
duties' that  rest  upon  them  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ.  I  am 
very  happy  to  be  able  to  report  that  the  California  mission  has  played 
its  full  part  in  contributing,  in  a  material  way,  to  the  tithes  that  have 
been  paid  for  the  advancement  and  upbuilding  of  the  Church  of  Christ ; 
and,  notwithstanding  the  financial  depression  that  has  been  mentioned 
by  some  of  the  speakers  during  this  conference,  there  has  been  more 
tithe  paying  during  1920  than  has  ever  been  paid  in  the  mission  before; 
I  think  about  twenty-six  per  cent  more  tithing  during  the  past  year 
than  was  paid  during  the  previous  year,  and  I  am  also  glad  to  be  able 
to  report  that  the  California  mission,  in  the  amount  of  tithing  that  is 
paid  per  capita  throughout  the  entire  mission,  stands  above  the  general 
average  of  the  Church,  which  I  think  is  a  very  splendid  thing  to  be 
able  to  report. 

We  are  feeling  some  anxiety  in  that  mission  in  relation  to  mis- 
sionaries, and  I  suppose  the  same  feeling  is  with  all  of  the  mission 
presidents.  There  seems  to  be  disposition  to  a  greater  extent  than 
ever  before,  it  seems  to  me,  for  fathers  and  mothers  and  others  who 
have  representatives  in  the  mission  field,  to  feel  that  it  is  a  proper 
thing  to  suggest  the  release  of  missionaries,  long  before  the  time  that 
the  mission  president  would  release  them.  I  desire  to  ask  bishops 
and  presidents  and  fathers  and  mothers  that  they  give  attention  to 
this  matter,  and  that  they  be  not  too  ready  to  recommend  the  release  of 
the  men  and  the  women  who  have  been  called  to  preach  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  If  you  will  open  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
you  will  discover  again  and  again  in  the  revelations  of  the  Lord  that 
there  can  be  no  greater  service  rendered  than  the  preaching  of  the  gos- 
pel. Many  of  the  brethren,  at  an  early  period  in  the  Church,  went  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  inquired  what  they  could  do  that  would  be  of 
the  greatest  advantage  to  themselves,  and  the  Lord  answered  again 
and  again  that  the  thing  that  would  be  of  greatest  worth  to  those  men 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

who  thus  sought  counsel  at  the  hands  of  God,  through  the  prophet 
of  the  Lord,  would  be  to  lift  up  their  voices  in  the  preaching  of  the 
gospel.  I  do  not  know  that  this  has  ever  been  revoked.  If  the  great- 
est thing  that  men  could  engage  in,  at  the  introduction  of  the  gospel, 
was  to  cry  repentance  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  and  to  ex- 
pound the  doctrines  that  have  been  revealed  for  the  salvation  of  the 
children  of  men,  that  service  is  just  as  great  today,  as  it  has  ever  been 
in  the  history  of  the  Church,  and  I  think  it  would  be  well  for  fathers 
and  mothers,  and  for  men  who  occupy  presiding  positions  in  the  organi- 
zations of  the  Church  here  in  Zion,  to  counsel  that  missionaries  be  per- 
mitted to  remain  in  the  mission  field  until  those  who  preside  over  them 
feel  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  say  that  the  time  has  come 
when  they  should  lay  down  their  missionary  work  and  return  again  to 
their  various  homes.  I  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when  I  make 
this  statement,  that  always  there  can  be  conditions  that  cannot  be  con- 
trolled by  fathers  and  mothers,  and  that  cannot  be  controlled  by  others, 
however  interested  they  may  be,  that  may  make  it  necessary  for  mis- 
sionaries to  return,  but  it  is  an  injustice  to  any  young  elder  in  the  mis- 
sion field,  who  has  been  there  for  sixteen  or  eighteen  months,  and  who 
has  made  the  discovery,  perhaps,  that  God  is  his  Father,  that  God  has 
called  him  to  be  his  servant,  has  called  him  with  divine  authority,  and 
has  made  him  a  preacher  of  righteousness,  just  when  he  is  being  bap- 
tized by  the  power  of  God,  and  when  ability  is  being  developed  within 
him  to  expound  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel — not  in  the  enticing  words 
of  man's  wisdom,  but  in  the  power  and  demonstration  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
— then  to  have  somebody  make  a  recommendation  that  he  be  released 
and  be  taken  away  from  his  missionary  work  and  be  brought  home, 
disappointed,  knowing  in  his  own  soul  that  he  had  not  accomplished 
the  work  that  he  had  desired  to  accomplish.  And  the  preaching  of 
this  gospel  is  to  be  continued  as  it  is  written  in  the  very  first  revela- 
tion :  "And  the  voice  of  warning  shall  be  unto  all  people,  by  the  months 
of  my  disciples,  whom  I  have  chosen  in  these  last  days.  And  they  shall 
go  forth  and  none  shall  stay  them,  for  I,  the  Lord,  have  commanded 
them."  You  may  read  further,  I  shall  not  take  the  time — of  the 
marvelous  promises  that  have  been  made  by  the  Lord  God  of  heaven  in 
relation  to  the  preaching  of  the  gospel,  and  that  all  men  can  come  to 
an  understanding  of  the  truth  as  it  has  been  revealed,  if  they  will 
hearken  to  the  counsels  that  are  given  of  God  through  his  servants. 

I  desire  to  say  to  you,  fathers  and  mothers,  and  I  know  whereof 
I  speak,  for  I  have  been  in  the  very  period  of  missionary  work  in  the 
past  that  the  missionaries  who  are  in  California,  very  largely,  are  in 
today,  and  I  would  rather  have  had  taken  from  me  anything  that  I 
possessed  in  the  world  than  to  have  been  robbed  in  the  days  of  my  boy- 
hood of  filling,  to  the  full  satisfaction  of  those  who  presided  over  me, 
the  first  mission  in  which  God,  in  his  bountiful  kindness,  gave  me  op- 
portunity to  labor.  I  plead  with  the  fathers  and  the  mothers,  and  with 
bishops   and   presidents,   as    far   as   possible,   to   encourage   men    and 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART\  137 

women  to  remain  in  the  fields,  and  let  them  understand  that  there  is, 
as  a  general  thing,  but  one  opportunity  given  to  a  man  in  a  lifetime 
— that  is  the  history  of  missionary  work,  just  one  opportunity  in  a  life 
time, — to  preach  the  gospel ;  and  do  not  interfere  and  bring  home  from 
the  mission  field  men  who  are  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  who  are 
anxious  to  cry  repentance,  who  have  had  a  wonderful  love  come  into 
their  souls  for  the  gospel  of  the  Redeemer,  and  who  have  been  made 
to  know,  just  as  their  fathers  and  mothers  know,  that  the  things  that 
they  are  teaching  are  true — the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  I  thank 
God  that  I  have  that  assurance  and  knowledge  in  my  soul,  and  I 
praise  God  that  he  has  given  me  this  assurance,  and  bear  testimony 
to  its  truth  with  all  my  soul,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  my  King. 
Amen.  .,    ,    — ^  J 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  take  it  as  a  compliment  to  my  father,  James  H.  Hart,  rather 
than  any  slight  to  myself,  that  I  should  be  invited  to  the  stand  under  my 
father's  name.  1  recall  an  incident  in  his  life,  suggested  to  me  during 
this  conference,  of  his  being  lost  with  a  companion  in  a  fog  or  storm. 
They  wandered  for  hours  without  reaching  any  known  landmark, 
until  night  settled  upon  them  and  the  situation  became  serious. 
They  knelt  in  prayer  for  their  deliverance,  and  shortly  after  arising 
from  their  knees  in  the  snow  of  that  cold  country,  the  clouds  broke 
away  for  a  few  minutes,  they  beheld  the  North  Star  and  received 
their  bearings.  So  in  this  conference  there  have  been  presented 
guiding  gospel  principles,  foundation  stones  upon  which.'  we  may 
safely  anchor,  and  to  which  we  may  look  for  guidance.  In  the  con- 
stitution of  this  commonwealth,  framed  under  the  presidency  of  the 
late  President  John  Henry  Smith,  it  is  declared  that  "frequent  re- 
currence to  general  principles  is  essential  to  the  security  of  individual 
rights  and  the  perpetuity  of  free  government."  By  parity  of  reason- 
ing, a  frequent  recurrence  to  the  fundamentals  of  religion  are  essen- 
tial for  individual  guidance,  and  for  the  well-being  of  the  Church. 
I  rejoice  in  the  fundamental  instructions  and  the  solid  satisfaction 
of  the  spiritual  feeding,  given  us  during  this  conference.  The 
injunction  of  the  opening  speech  was  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord.  I  am  reminded  in  this  connection  that  the  Ten  Command- 
ments form  the  very  foundation  of  the  laws  of  all  civilized  nations. 
One  of  our  most  learned  jurists  in  the  civil  law,  that  is,  the  Roman 
law  as  distinguished  from  the  common  law,  said  of  the  civil  law, 
(and  it  is  in  keeping  with  the  Book  of  Mormon  quotation  made  by 
Elder  Whitney  in  this  conference)  that  "the  spirit  of  man,  divinely 
inspired,  has  wrought  from  the  beginning.  The  roots  of  the  tree  of 
life  strike  down  into  the  remotest  past" ;  that  a  system  had  been 
developed   which    reigns   by   reason   after   the    authority   which   pro- 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

mulgated  it  ceased  to  reign.  If  it  be  true  that  inspiration  to  the 
law-giver,  can  produce  a  system  of  such  strength  and  reasoning  that 
it  prevails  long  centuries  after  the  authority  which  promulgated  it- 
has  passed  away ;  how  peculiarly  true  it  is  of  the  gospel  that  these 
divine  principles,  these  foundation  stones,  lower  than  which  we  may 
not  be  able  to  go,  will  be  a  stay  to  us  and  a  strength  and  a  guide 
to  us. 

I  always  enjoy  that  hymn  that  we  sang  yesterday,  Ex-President 
Roosevelt's  favorite  symn,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord,  is  laid  for  your  faith  in  his  excellent  word."  We  have 
been  reminded  of  this  firm  foundation  by  the  teachings  of  this  con- 
ference. When  in  the  tribulation,  turmoil  and  temptations  of  life, 
there  is  danger  of  losing  our  bearings,  if  we  can  keep  sight  of  these 
guiding  principles,  these  foundation  truths  of  our  religion,  we  are 
more  secure.  I  did  not  refer  to  the  incident  of  prayer  followed  by 
a  view  of  the  polar  star  as  an  argument  for  prayer,  although  I  am 
sure  as  I  live,  as  sure  as  I  desire  to  be,  that  God  can  and  does  hear 
the  prayers  of  faith  of  his  children. 

I  Rejoice  greatly  in  looking  in  the  faces  of  these  my  faithful 
brethren,  into  whose  stakes  it  has  been  my  great  privilege  to  go 
during  the  past  fifteen  years,  and  to  see  them  working  with  love 
for  the  good  of  their  fellow  men,  giving  loving  service  to  the  point 
of  great  sacrifice  in  many  instances ;  and,  by  the  way,  that  covers 
three  of  the  cardinal  principles  that  our  Reedeemer  stood  for  and 
taught — love,  service  and  sacrifice.  I  have  seen  that  manifested  so 
abundantly  in  the  lives  of  my  brethren,  that  in  being  in  their  presence 
I  have  felt  reassured,  reinforced,  and  renewed  in  strength  and  deter- 
mination. 

I  think  perhaps  no  more  important  principle  was  given  to  us 
during  this  conference  than  the  reference  which  our  president  made 
to  some  matters  in  the  43rd  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

"And  this  ye  shall  know  assuredly,  that  there  is  none  other 
appointed  unto  you  to  receive  commandments  and  revelations  until 
he  be  taken,  if  he  abide  in  me"  .  .  .  referring  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph. 

"And  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  you,  that  ye  receive  not  the  teach- 
ings of  any  that  shall  come  before  you  as  revelations  or  command- 
ments," other  than  the  president  of  the  Church,  because  there  is 
"none  other  appointed"  to  receive  revelations  for  the  Church  except 
the  president  of  the  Church. 

"And  this  I  give  unto  you  that  you  may  not  be  deceived,  that 
you  may  know  they  are  not  of  me."  And  if  that  principle  were 
known  and  understood  in  the  Church,  some  individuals  would  stand 
upon  safer  ground  than  they  now  stand, upon.  Their  compass  would 
work  and  it  would  point  to  the  North  Star,  to  the  source  from  which 
the  Church  is  entitled  to  receive  guidance. 

In  listening  to  the  remarks  of  Elder  Richards  on  the  necessity  of 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART  139 

example,  and  teaching  the  gospel  by  example,  I  thought  of  the 
reverse  condition  of  those  who  may  cast  reflection  and  bring  dis- 
grace, not  only  upon  themselves  but  upon  the  Church,  by  not  setting 
an  example  that  is  worthy  of  emulation ;  by  failure  to  adhere  to 
fundamental  principles,  by  listening,  perchance,  to  some  lying  voice, 
some  lying  spirit  of  evil  that  may  direct  them  away  from  foundation 
principles  and  truths,  persuade  them  to  violate  the  commandments 
of  God,  and  lead  them  off  on  a  tangent  of  evil. 

This  is  a  time  in  the  history  of  the  world  when  a  new  resolve 
should  be  made  in  favor  of  obedience  to  law.  The  proclamation 
has  been  made  throughout  this  conference  of  the  reign  of  law  in  the 
universe.  The  general  principles  which  apply,  as  we  read  in  the 
130th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  are: 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  foun- 
dations of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated; 

"And  when  we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God  it  is  by  obedience  to 
that  law  upon  which  it  is  predicated,"  compliance  with  the  conditions 
upon  which  it  is  predicated.  That  is  fair  and  safe  to  everyone,  that 
we  are  governed  not  by  caprice  nor  by  whim,  nor  by  changing  laws, 
but  upon  principles  irrevocably  established  from  the  foundations  of 
the  earth. 

President  Lincoln  in  his  day  had  some  sound  advice  for  the 
people,  which  should  be  reiterated  throughout-  the  earth.  I  suppose 
there  has  never  been  such  a  lawless  period  in  all  the  history  of  the 
world  as  we  are  passing  through  in  the  United  States  today,  never 
a  time  when  life  has  been  held  at  so  low  an  estimate,  nor  a  time 
when  greed  and  the  ambition  for  unjust  gain,  have  been  more  rampant. 
He  said:  "Let  every  American,  every  lover  of  liberty,  every  well- 
wisher  of  his  posterity,  swear  by  the  .blood  of  the  Revolution,  never 
to  violate  in  the  least  particular  the  laws  of  the  country,  and  never  to 
tolerate  their  violation  by  others.  Let  reverence  for  the  laws  be 
breathed  by  every  American  mother  to  the  lisping  babe  that  prattles 
on  her  lap ;  let  it  be  taught  in  schools,  in  seminaries  and  in  colleges ; 
let  it  be  written  in  primers,  in  spelling  books  and  in  almanacs;  let  it 
be  preached  from  the  pulpits,  proclaimed  in  legislative  halls,  and 
enforced  in  courts  of  justice.  And,  in  short,  let  it  become  the  political 
religion  of  the  nation ;  and  let  the  old  and  the  young,  the  rich  and 
the  poor,  the  grave  and  the  gay  of  all  sexes  and  tongues  and  colors 
and  conditions,  sacrifice  unceasingly  upon  its  altars." 

The  fact  that  one  may  not  like  a  law  does  not  justify  him  in 
disobeying  it.  Will  elders  of  Israel  be  unmindful  of  the  rule  pre- 
vailing in  the  United  States  against  the  manufacture  or  distilling  of 
liquor.  Will  they  feel  at  liberty  to  violate  the  law  because,  perchance, 
they  may  think  it  can  be  done  in  safety?  If  they  do  so,  there  is  a 
harvest  of  sorrow  for  them  to  reap.  By  the  violation  of  law  they 
reap  the  whirlwind  they  sow  in  disobedience  to  law.  We  have  had 
some  pathetic  cries  from  individuals  in  this  nation  who  have  taken 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

false  steps  and  have  cried  out  as  a  warning  voice  to  their  sisters  to 
avoid  the  evils  that  have  come  upon  them.  On  their  death  bed  they 
have  sobbed:  "It  was  wine,  wine  that  did  it.  Tell  girls  to  heed  me, 
for  I  know.  Tell  them  that  in  the  wine  cup  lies  death."  Others  at- 
tribute failure  in  life  to  a  lack  of  appreciation  of  the  value  of  a  home 
and  a  loving  companion  and  the  establishment  of  a  home  under 
lawful  wedlock  and  the  companionship  of  a  husband  who  would  be 
true.  There  may  be  other  laws  than  that  for  the  enforcement  of 
temperance  throughout  the  United  States  that  an  individual  here  and 
there  may  not  fancy,  but  let  all  support  the  law ;  let  all  be  guided  by 
the  general  principles  that  are  established  for  the  guidance,  not  only 
of  citizens  of  the  United  States,  but  citizens  in  this  great  Church  of 
ours. 

I  copied  from  some  author  words  of  advice  and  warning  to 
our  girls  in  reference  to  modesty.  The  thought  was  expressed  more 
beautifully  than  I  could  express  it  myself  and  therefore  I  desired  to 
read  the  exact  language,  but  I  do  not  seem  to  have  the  words  with 
me.  In  substance  it  was  that  cultivated  communities  have  come  to 
make  modesty  the  supreme  grace  of  woman.  That  it  is  to  her  a 
garment  of  strength  and  beauty  and  a  witness  to  her  womanhood. 
That  she  has  no  need  to  assert  what  all  concede  or  to  demand  rights 
which  no  one  question.  That  the  costume  or  the  action  which  sug- 
gests immodesty  is  a  voluntary  descent  from  the  position  which  the 
com(munity  gladly  assigns  to  a  woman.  That  it  is  an  accepted  degra- 
dation and  choice  of  unloveliness  and  a  challenge  to  impurity;  and  that 
it  is  well  to  remember  that  the  only  protection  is  in  oneself  and 
the  only  safety  in  resisting  the  beginning  of  evil 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  help  the  efforts  of  those  who  are  striv- 
ing to  establish  the  youth  of  Zion,  to  keep  in  the  paths  of  righteous- 
ness, rectitude  and  right,  young  people  in  the  Church  who  are  growing 
up  and  who  will  take  the  places  in  a  few  years  of  these  their  older 
brethren  and  sisters.  There  has  been  many  testimonies  of  the  truth 
of  the  Gospel  presented  during  this  Conference.  The  few  statistics 
given  by  President  Grant  was  an  eloquent  witness  to  the  divinity 
of  this  work.  A  deathrate  of  nine,  a  birthrate  of  thirty-eight,  and 
a  marriage  rate  of  fifteen  and  one-half.  Those  things  could  not  flow 
from  an  evil  tree.  The  tree  may  be  judged  by  its  fruit,  and  "the 
poisonous  tree,  though  watered  by  nectar,  can  produce  only  the  fruit 
of  death ;"  and  likewise,  the  good  tree  will  bring  forth  good  fruit. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  testimonies  of  my  brethren,  in  the  instruc- 
tions which  they  have  given,  and  I  desire  to  continue  with  them  to 
be  faithful  in  promulgating  this  great  cause,  which  confers  honor 
upon  any  man  who  has  any  part  or  work  therein.  May  the  Lord 
bless  us  and  give  us  glimpses  from  time  to  time  of  the  grandeur  and 
the  magnitude  and  majesty  and  worth  of  this  great  work  and  of  its 
value  to  the  children  of  our  Father,  whose  souls  are  very  precious 
in  his  sight,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  141 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

APPRECIATION   OE   STEPHENS'    "THE    MARTYRS." 

I  want  to  express  my  unbounded  approbation  and  delight  with 
the  very  splendid  cantata  that  we  had  here  of  "The  Martyrs"  last 
night.  I  am  sure  all  who  were  here  were  very  much  delighted  and 
pleased,  and  that  all  feel  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  inspiration  to 
our  beloved  brother,  Evan  Stephens,  in  furnishing  us  such  a  won- 
derful piece  of  music,  and  such  a  splendid  tribute  in  poetry  to  our 
beloved  dead. 

THE    SCHOOL    OF    ART    AND    MUSIC. 

Perhaps  you  have  noticed  in  the  papers  that  the  magnificent 
McCune  residence,  which  would  probably  cost  over  half  a  million 
dollars,  and  which  was  presented  to  the  Church  at  our  last  Confer- 
ence, has  been  set  aside  by  the  Presidency  for  the  use  of  a  School 
of  Art  and  Music.  And  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  this  disposition  of 
the  property  has  met  with  the  very  hearty  approval  of  A.  W.  Mc- 
Cune and  his  wife,  the  donors  of  the  property ;  in  addition  to  having 
given  this  imposing  structure,  when  they  learned  it  was  to  be  used 
as  a  School  of  Music  and  Art,  they  presented  to  us  the  two  mag- 
nificent pieces  of  statuary  that  are  now  in  that  home,  which  would 
probably  cost  something  over  twenty  thousand  dollars,  as  a  begin- 
ning for  art  collections  that  may  go  there.  I  trust  that  the  people  will 
call  and  partake  of  the  hospitality  of  the  School  of  Music.  Of 
course,  as  to  this  designation  for  the  use  of  the  place,  I  do  not  know 
exactly  that  it  will  always  be  permanent,  but  we  are  inclined  to 
think  it  will  be.  i  I 

There  have  been  a  great  many  people,  of  course,  who  have  urged 
me  to  move  there  and  use  that  magnificent  house  as  the  official 
residence  of  the  President  of  the  Church.  I  appreciate  the  compli- 
ment and  the  many  expressions  of  good  will  and  desire  for  me  to 
occupy  such  a  magnificent  structure;  but  I  consider  it  would  be  a 
vast  waste  of  the  money  of  the  good  people  to  maintain  me  in  any 
such  an  elegant  place,  for  the  reason  that  if  I  went  there  I  would 
want  everything  to  be  in  keeping  with  the  house,  and  it  would  be 
in  direct  opposition  to  what  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards  has  said 
here  today,  all  of  which  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart.  For  the  time 
being  I  shall  be  perfectly  satisfied  to  live  in  my  little  bungalow,  one 
story  and  a  half  high  in  about  the  nicest  spot  in  all  Salt  Lake  City. 
During  the  first  six  months  of  my  residence  there,  I  don't  believe  I 
missed  a  half  dozen  times  sitting  up  in  bed  every  morning  and  taking 
a  view  of  the  whole  valley  and  singing  President  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose's hymn,  "O  ye  mountains  high." 

I   endorse  with   all   my   heart   the    excellent    remarks    that    have 


142  .GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

been  made  here  this  morning,  and  if  time  would  permit,  would  like 
to  add  a  few  comments,  but  we  aim  to  start  on  time  and  to  close  on 
time,  barring  the  musical  selection  after  twelve  o'clock.  May  the 
Lord  bless  us,  and  may  we  have  a  time  of  rejoicing  this  afternoon 
and  on  the  morrow  in  our  conference,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  George  T.  Hyde,  of  the 
1'ortneuf  stake  of  Zion. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION 

Conference  meeting  was  opened  at  2  o'clock  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  who  presided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph  Reece,  of  the 
Nebo  stake  of  Zion. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  thou  glorious  day  of  promise,"  by 
Alexander  Neibaur,  a  Jew.  The  hymn  was  read  in  full  by  President 
Heber  J.  Grant,  and  is  found  on  page  246,  of  the  Latter-day  Saints' 
Hymn  Book. 

ELDER     RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

I  trust  that  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father  that  has 
rested  upon  those  who  have  spoken  before,  may  be  with  me  while 
]  stand  before  you. 

I  wonder  if  the  early  pioneers  of  Utah,  the  founders  of  the 
Church,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  others,  in!  their  fondest 
dreams  and  hopes,  comprehended  the  rapidity  with  which  this  Church 
would  grow.  With  some  friends  of  mine,  relatives  in  fact,  daugh- 
ters of  the  late  Patriarch  John  Brown  who,  with  Orson  Pratt,  was 
first  of  the  Pioneers  to  look  into  Salt  Lake  Valley,  I  say,  with  his 
daughters,  I  drove  over  the  boulevard  above  Salt  Lake  City  a  few 
nights  ago.  There  were  clouds  in  the  heavens  so  that  the  stars  could 
not  be  seen.  The  whole  valley  seemed  to  be  thickly  dotted  with  elec- 
tric lights.  And  as  we  gazed  we  wondered  what  the  pioneers  would 
have  thought  if  in  their  dreams  they  could  have  seen  the  valley  un- 
der similar  conditions. 

ARE    WE    WORTHY    SONS    AND    DAUGHTERS    OF    THE    PIONEERS? 

As  I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  the  people  assembled  at  this 
Conference,  I  have  thought  with  admiration  and  wonder  of  this 
great  structure  in  which  we  are  assembled !     Of  its  magniture,  and 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  143 

of  the  unusual  factor  of  safety  that  has  been  used  in  its  construction. 
I,  have  thought  also  of  the  great  Temple  cast  of  us,  with  its  tre- 
mendous foundations  and  massive  walls.  There  is  an  edifice  like  the 
rock  of  ages.  What  rare  inspiration  rested  upon  that  great  Pioneer 
and  Prophet,  Brigham  Young,  when,  under  his  direction,  the  Lord 
laid  the  foundations  for  this  great  commonwealth ! 

Are  we,  sons  and  daughters  of  these  great  Pioneers,  playing  our 
part  in  this  great  work  as  well  as  they  played  theirs?  In  this  house 
last  night  a  tremendous  multitude  listened  to  the  music  of  a  product 
of  the  Church  and  were  thrilled  with  the  stirring;  strains  of  song 
and  music  in  honor  and  praise  of  our  martyrs.  At  the  same  time 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Theatre,  another  building  erected  under  the  direc- 
tion of  that  great  Pioneer,  President  Brighami  Young,  his  grand- 
daughter was  the  leading  performer  in  a  grand  opera  production.  Are 
we,  I  ask,  even  under  these  conditions,  worthy  sons  and  worthy 
daughters  of  these  great  Pioneers? 

.THE    ANTI-CIGARETTE     CAMPAIGN     RATIONAL,     NOT     HYSTERICAL. 

Since  the  last  Conference,  six  months  ago,  Mutual  Improvement 
workers  and  others,  in  and  out  of  the  Church,  have  waged  a  rather 
intense  campaign  against  the  use  of  the  cigarette  in  the  State  of  Utah, 
and  wherever  else  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
has  members. 

In  conducting  this  campaign  I  regret  that  we  have  met  with 
some  opposition.  I  am  sorry  that  in  these  efforts  we  have  come  into 
rather  vigorous  conflict  with  some  of  the  leading  business  men  of 
our  State.  If  in  this  undertaking,  we  have  been  in  error,  we  have 
not  been  alone  in  our  mistaken  judgment.  Doctors  and  educators 
generally  encourage  such  undertakings.  Were  Andrew  D.  White, 
a  great  president,  and  an  important  factor  in  founding  Cornell 
Lniversity,  still  living,  I  would  write  to  him  and  say:  "In  the  sum- 
mer of  1902  you  gave  me  a  mission.  You  asked  me,  as  I  sat  in 
Cornell  University,  in  company  with  teachers  from  various  other 
sections  of  the  country,  to  go  home  and  to  carry  to  the  young  people 
I  came  in  contact  with  a  message  from  Andrew  White,  to  call 
the  attention  of  young  people  to  the  fact  that  the  use  of  the  cigar- 
ette is  one  of  the  most  positive  means  of  taking  from  people  their 
chances  of  success."  I  would  say:  "President  Andrew  D.  White.  I 
am  proud  to  have  helped  to  secure  the  following-  result :  The  State 
of  Utah  has  passed  a  law  prohibiting  the  sale  or  the  giving  away  of 
cigarettes  or  cigarette  paper.  The  State  of  Idaho  has  also,  by  law, 
provided  strict  regulations  intended  to  decrease  the  use  of  these  two 
objectionable  articles." 

This  work  has  not  been  a  matter  of  hysteria.  With  us  it  is  not 
a  mania.  We  have  proceeded  deliberately.  We  feel  as  if  with  math- 
ematical certainty  we  have  done  something  for  the  lasting  benefit 
of  the  young  people  of  our  communities. 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

WHY  THE  ANTI-CIGARETTE  QUESTION? 

Since  my  life  has  been  devoted  to  the  study  and  teaching  and 
practice  of  mathematics  and  of  engineering,  I  think  I  have  stamina 
enough  not  to  be  wafted  about  by  mania,  or  hysteria.  I  belong  to 
the  fifth  generation  of  members  of  the  Church.  I  desire  while  I 
speak,  that  I  may  do  so  as  a  worthy  son  of  the  grand  old  pioneers. 
Have  we  been  unreasonable,  have  we  worked  too  hard  in  this  anti- 
cigarette  campaign?  We  are  determined,  in  fact  it  is  our  mission 
and  duty,  to  produce  a  generation  of  young  men  and  women  better 
than  the  world  has  ever  known.  And  this  is  why  we  fight  to  keep  .the 
cigarette  from  our  young  men  and  our  young  women. 

I  have  here  a  copy  of  an  article  that  appeared  in  the  Denver  Post. 
March  21,  1921.  I  wonder  if  in  this  state,  where  we  have  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  where  we  have  the  Priesthood  and  the  power  and 
the  authority  to  speak  in  his  name ;  in  this  community  where  we 
are  putting  forth  effort  to  rear  young  men  and  young  women  who 
are  worthy,  do  the  conditions:  described  as  prevailing  in  Denver 
exist  here?    I  will  read  a  part  of  the  article: 

"Almost  any  night  you  may  see  the  downtown  streets  crowded  with 
boys  and  flashily  dressed,  scarlet-lipped,  loose-mannered  girls — moths  flut- 
tering around  the  searing  candle  of  'pleasure.'  You  may  see  them  in  auto- 
mobiles, riding  up  and  down  the  main  thoroughfares  of  the  city.  You  may 
see  unescorted  girls — children  who  should  have  been  tucked  into  bed  by 
their  mothers.  They  appear  to  be  without  shame.  They  do  not  hesitate 
to  trade  modesty  and  virtue  for  what  they  think  is  pleasure. 

"All  Denver  is  aroused,  and  rightly,  too.  Who  is  to  blame  for  this 
appalling  condition?  Who  is  responsible  for  the  absolute  lack  of  morals 
in  these  boys  and  girls  who  are  to  be  the  men  and  women  and  parents  of 
tomorrow?  Why  are  boys  and  girls  permitted  to  gad  about  the  streets  at 
ail  hours  of  the  night,  allowed  to  joy-ride  in  their  parents'  automobiles  un- 
til the  wee  small  hours  of  the  morning,  suffered  to  go  where  they  will,  and 
however  they  choose,  to  satiate  a  perverted  appetite  for  pleasure? 

"Juvenile  Judge  Lindsey,  clergy,  school  authorities,  welfare  workers — • 
all  say  the  blame  for  this  deplorable  state  of  affairs  rests  upon  the  parents." 

It  is  against  conditions  like  these  that  we  are  fighting.  If  we 
have  been  too  intense  in  this  anti-cigarette  campaign,  may  we  be  for- 
given. But  I  say  to  Mutual  Improvement  workers,  to  the  Governor 
of  the  State  of  Idaho,  and  the  Governor  of  the  State  of  Utah,  to 
the  legislators  and  tol  all  who  are  responsible  for  this  anti-cigarette 
legislation,  God  bless  you.  I  predict  that  thousands,  yea,  tens  of 
thousands  among  the  generation  to  come  will  rise  and  call  you 
blessed. 

LIVE    WITHIN   YOUR  lMEANS   AND   SO    KEEP    OUT   OF   DEBT    AND    TROUBLE. 

I  was  very  greatly  interested  in  what  Stephen  L.  Richards  said 
this  morning  on  the  subject  of  economy.  No  man  has  the  right  to 
live!  beyond  his  means.    It  is  the  duty  of  every  man  to  keep  accounts. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN  145 

He  who  does  it  will  have  the  reins  in  his  hands,  he  will  be  master  of 
the  situation,  he  will  not  be  driven  into  bankruptcy. 

I  visited  the  home  of  a  prosperous  farmer  a  few  weeks  ago. 
His  is  an  unusually  comfortable  home.  I  noticed  hanging  on  the 
wall  a  beautifully  framed  motto.  As  I  looked  at  it  he  said:  "Proba- 
bly that  motto  is  not  quite  so  appropriate  hanging  on  this  wall  as  it 
was  on  the  wall  of  the  little  log  cabin  in  which  my  wife  and  I  lived 
during  the  early  part  of  our  married  life.  The  words  were  words  of 
the  late  President  John  R.  Winder:  "Live  within  your  means,  keep 
out  of  debt,  and  you  will  keep  out  of  trouble." 

NOTHING  SHOULD  INTERFERE  WITH  SACRAMENT  MEETINGS. 

President  Grant  referred  yesterday  to  a  slogan  of  the  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations  adopted  about  two  years  ago :  "We  stand 
for  spiritual  growth  through  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings."  It 
is  our  desire  to  avoid  the  conditions  that  have  been  described  as 
existing  among  the  young  people  in  tne  City  of  Denver.  One  01  tne 
means  of  avoiding  conditions  of  this  sort  is  the  partaking  of  the 
sacrament  of  the  Lord's  supper.  A  man  in  the  Priesthood  meeting, 
yesterday,  said  to  the  President  of  the  Church :  "President  Grant,  may 
we  hold  a  meeting  in  our  stake,  once  a  month,  at  two  o'clock  on  the 
Sabbath  day.  It  will  be  interfering  with  our  sacrament  meeting  but 
once  each  month?"  The  President  very  promptly  replied:  "We  de- 
sire to  have  nothing  interfere  with  our  sacrament  meetings."  It  is 
when  partaking  of  the  sacrament  sincerely  and  worthily  that  we 
come  into  unusually  close  communion  with  our  Father  in  heaven.  It 
is  then  our  hearts  are  filled  with  a  prayerful  spirit  and  we  acknowl- 
edge before  our  iheavenly  Father  our  weaknesses.  It  is  then  and 
there  we  desire  to  be  forgiven  and  firmly  we  resolve  to  be  stronger 
and  better.  Oh,  that  I  had  the  power  to  say  something  to  induce  all 
the  people  to  put  forth  their  best  efforts  all  the  time.  We  will  not  be 
judged  by  the  sermons  we  preach  or  the  sermons  we  hear.  We  will 
not  be  judged  by  the  number  of  meetings  we  attend.  Nor  will  we 
be  judged  by  the  prayers  we  utter  or  those  we  hear.  Tf  we  are  satis- 
fied with  these  things  only,  we  are  like  the  tree  that  is  satisfied  with 
being  cultivated  and  irrigated  and  with  putting  forth  leaves  but  bear- 
ing no  fruit.  Partake  of  the  sacrament,  or  in  the  language  of  Tsaiah : 
"Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found ;  call  ye  upon  him  while 
lie  is  near."  Brother  B.  H.  Roberts  said  yesterday  he  has  seen  men 
whose  hands  were  scarlet  with  sin,  appeal  in  anguish  for  forgive- 
ness, and  for  the  days  of  their  youth  to  return  thus  giving  them  an- 
other opportunity  to  make  their  lives  better.  Among  us  are  thous- 
ands of  young  men  and  young  women  whose  lives  are  pure,  whose 
hearts  are  clean.  To  these  I  appeal,  "Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he 
may  be  found ;  call  ye  upon  him;  while  he  is  near. 

Wherever  here  or  elsewhere  there  is  anything  virtuous,  lovely, 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

or  of  good  report,  or  praiseworthy,  these  are  virtues   for  which   we 
seek. 

SPECIFICATIONS  FOR  A   MAN. 

I  have  before  me  a  copy  of  the  prayer  of  an  engineer.  Shall  I 
call  it  a  prayer?  This  man  was  a  product  of  my  owh  Alma  Mater, 
Cornell  University.  The  principal  business  of  his  life  was  to  write 
specifications,  specifications  for  bridges,  specifications  for  buildings, 
for  trestles,  for  railroads,  etc.  For  preparing  such  specifications  he 
was  well  paid.  Here  is  his  prayer  or  specifications  he  wrote  for  him- 
self. For  so  doing  he  received  no  money.  They  were  not  prepared 
for  publication,  but  simply  for  his  own  private  use.  They  were  found 
among  his  papers,  after  his  death,  and  were  entitled  :  "Specifications 
for  a  Man." 

"To  respect  my  country,"  [and  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  this 
is  the  thing  for  which  we  stand]  "to  respect  my  country,  my  profession 
and  myself.  To  be  honest  and  fair  with  my  fellow  men  as  I  expect  them 
to  be  honest  and  to  be  fair  with  me.  To  be  a  loyal  citizen  of  the  United 
States,  to  speak  of  the  United  States  with  praise  and  to  act  alwa}'s  as  a 
trustworthy  custodian  of  the  good  name  .of  my  country.  To  be  a  man 
whose  name  carries  prestige  wherever  it  goes.  To  base  my  expectation 
of  reward  on  a  solid  foundation  of  service  rendered.  To  be  willing  to  pay 
the  price  of  success  and  to  pay  this  price  in  honest  effort,  To  look  upon 
my  work  as  an  .opportunity,  to  be  seized  with  joy  and  to  be  made  the  most 
of,  and  not  as  painful  drudgery  to  be  painfully  endured.  To  remember 
that  success  lies  within  my  own  self.  To  expect  difficulties  and  to  force 
my  way  through  these  difficulties.  To  turn  hard  experience  into  capital 
to  be  used  in  future  struggles.  To  believe  in  my  profession  both  heart  and 
soul.  To  carry  a  ray  of  optimism  in  the  presence  of  all  whom  I  meet.  To 
dispel  all  temper  with  cheerfulness.  To  kill  doubts  with  strong  convictions 
and  to  reduce  action  with  an  agreeable  personality.  To  make  a  study  of  my 
business,  to  know  my  profession  in  every  detail.  To  mix  brains  with  ef- 
forts and  with  system  in  my  work.  To  find  time  to  do  every  needful  thing 
by  not  letting  time  find  me  doing  nothing.  To  hoard  days  as  a  miser  hoards 
dollars.  To  make  every  hour  produce  me  dividends,  either  in  increased 
knowledge  or  in  helpful  recreation.  To  keep  my  future  unencumbered  with 
debt.  To  save  as  well  as  to  earn.  To  cut  out  expensive  amusements  until 
I  can  afford  them.  To  steer  clear  of  dissipation  and  to  guard  my  health 
of  body  and  peace  of  mind  as  a  most  precious  stock  of  trade.  Finally,  to 
take  a  firm  grip  on  the  jars  of  life,  to  play  the  game  and  to  play  it  like  a 
man.  To  fight  against  nothing  so  hard  as  I  fight  against  my  own  weak- 
nesses. To  be  a  gentleman  and  a  Christian  so  I  may  be  courteous  to  men, 
faithful  to  friends,  and  true  to   God." 

Let  us,  I  pray,  make  our  lives  conform  with  these  exalted  speci- 
fications, and  all  the  glorious  principles  of  the  perfect .  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  I  humbly  pray,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

THE    NECESSITY    OF    THE    CIGARETTE    LAW. 

I  believe  that  Brother  Joseph  W.  McMurrin  first  called  my  at- 
tention to  an  article  published  in  the  Scientific  American  and  repro- 


PROFESSOR  PERRY  G.  HOLDEN  147 

duced  in  the  Literary  Digest,  announcing  that  for  fifty  long  years 
no  young  man  in  Harvard  University  had  ever  graduated  at  the 
head  of  his  class,  as  the  principal  student,  who  was  a  user  of  tobac- 
co, nothwithstanding  the  fact  that  eighty-one  or  two  per  cent  used 
tobacco  and  only  nineteen  or  eighteen  didn't  use  it — so  that,  taking  it 
man  for  man,  for  those  many  years,  the  tobacco  users  had  not  be- 
come the  head  students  of  that  great  institution.  I  don't  think  any- 
body, with  an  ordinary,  common,  every-day  head  on  him, needs  any 
greater  evidence  than  that  of  the  necessity  of  passing  anti-cigarette 
and  other  laws  of  this  kind. 

INTRODUCING    PROF.    PERRY    G.    HOLDEN. 

We  have  with  us  today  Professor  Perry  G.  Plolden  of  Chicago, 
a  man  with  a  national  and  international  reputation  as  an  extension 
worker.  I  have  been  handed  one  or  two  statements  made  by  Pro- 
fessor Holden  that  I  will  read  before  we  have  the  pleasure  of  hear- 
ing from  him : 

"Every  American  ought  to  have  his  own  home,  and  every  fam- 
ily ought  to  have  an  acre  of  ground.  Men  don't  fight  for  their  board- 
ing houses — they  usually  fight  in  them."  And  we  might  add,  with 
their  tongues,  mostly. 

"Men  who  own  their  own  homes  don't  go  out  on  riotous  strikes." 
That  reminds  me  of  a  man  who  was  a  socialist,  over  in  France,  work- 
ing for  a  very  wealthy  man.  He  went  out  two  or  three  nights  a 
week  to  his  socialistic  meetings,  advocating  the  dividing  up  of  all 
the  property.  Finally  he  quit  going,  and  the  wealthy  man  for  whom 
he  worked  asked  him  why  he  hadn't  gone.  "Why,"  he  said,  "at  the 
last  meeting  which  I  attended  some  months  ago,  there  was  a  cal- 
culation which  had  been  made,  and  they  read  how  much  each  family 
would  have  after  we  got  all  the  property  divided  up,  and  lo  and 
behold,  I  have  more  in  the  savings  bank  already  than  would  be  my 
share." 

"If  the  community  will  take  care  of  its  boys  today,  its  boys  will 
take  care  of  the  community  tomorrow." 

To  his  son  leaving  for  the  army :  "My  son,  keep  your  standard." 
On  his  return:  "Have  you  kept  your  standard?"  "Yes,  father." 

"Money  spent  on  education  is  not  a  tax.     It  is  an  investment." 

"Ami  I  a  better  man  today  than  I  was  yesterday?" 

I  have  very  great  pleasure  in  introducing  Professor  Perry  G. 
Holden. 


PROFESSOR  PERRY  G.  HOLDEN. 

I  am  not  a  "Mormon,"  but  I  am  a  good  friend  of  the  "Mormons." 
Perhaps  only  one  other  man  in  these  United  States  has  said  more 
things  outside  of  Utah,  in  behalf  of  the  "Mormons,"  and  the  Q'reat 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

work  which  they  have  accomplished,  than  I,  and  that  is  Doctor  A.  E. 
Winship,  whom  many  of  you  know. 

I  am  reminded  at  this  time  of  a  little  incident.  Some 
years  ago  it  was  my  pleasure  to  be  at  a  great  Sunday  School  conven- 
tion at  Waterloo.  They  had  had  a  great  meeting  and  had  listened  to 
some  marvelous  addresses,  and  as  the  boys  thought  they  were  about 
through  they  ran  for  their  hats,  but  the  presiding  officer  said: 
"I  have  a  friend  here,  boys,  and  I  want  him  to  say  a  few  words  to 
you."  And  they  settled  back  with  some  discomfiture,  and  he  stepped 
before  them  and  he  said:  "Boys,  I  don't  know  just  what  to  say  to 
you  this  afternoon."  And  a  boy  way  back  in  the  back  part  of  the 
room  didn't  want  to  take  any  chances.  He  stood  up  atad  flung  his 
hand  a  little  and  said:  "Say,  Mr.,  I  can  tell  you  what  to  say.  Say, 
'Amen,'  and  sit  down." 

Now,  good  people,  for  the  few  moments  that  it  is  my  privilege 
and  supreme  pleasure  to  be  before  you,  I  hope  that  you  will  have  the 
Spirit  of  God  in  your  souls,  and  that  you  will  listen  to  what  I  say 
in  the  same  spirit  that  I  present  the  few  things  that  I  may  be  able  to 
present  at  this  time ;  and  I  am  sure  you  will,  because  I  have  met  you 
people  everywhere  throughout  this  and  other  states,  and  it  is  a  plea- 
sure and  a  privilege  that  I  cannot  describe  to-  you  at  this  time  to  have 
this  opportunity  of  talking  for  a  few  moments  with  you. 

I  want  to  say  Amen,  from  the  bottom  of  my  soul,  to  the  ad- 
dresses which  I  have  heard  today,  and  this  last  address  is  such  a 
wonderful  thing  that  I  wish  that  in  some  way  it  could  be  heard 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  this  land,  as  something  that 
helps  to  dedicate  and  consecrate  us  to  the  great  things  which  we  can 
accomplish,  if  we  but  will. 

I  want  to  refer  to  a  little  poem  to  illustrate  a  great  principle 
upon  which  all  progress  depends.  Samuel  Walter  Foss  wrote  many 
beautiful  things.  You  know  he  wrote  the  wonderful  little  poem 
entitled :  "Let  me  live  in  my  house  by  the  side  of  the  road,  where 
the  race  of  men  go  by,  men  who  are  good  and  men  who  are  bad,  as 
good  and  bad  as  I."  And  then  he  wrote  another  wonderful  little 
poem  with  a  very  common  name,  entitled :  "The  Calf  Path."  He  tells 
the  story  of  this  calf  that  went  out  to  pasture  one  morning  from 
Boston,  when  it  was  a  little  shack  of  a  town.  At  night  the  caif  came 
home  as  all  good  calves  do,  but  it  made  a  very  crooked  trail,  all  bent 
askew,  winding  in  and  out  and  round  about  through  the  brush.  The 
next  day  the  old  bell  wether  sheep  took  up  this  same  trail  and  all 
the  other  good  sheep  followed,  and  a  path  was  miade  through  those 
primeval  woods.  Then  the  people  followed  this  little  path,  winding 
in  and  out  and  round  about  through  the  brush  over  to  a  neighboring 
settlement,  and  then  they  built  little  homes  by  the  side  of  this  path, 
and  they  cleared  off  the  land  and  it  became  a  road,  and  then  they 
built  houses  and  stores  and  it  became  a  street.  Then  thev  built 
great  manufacturing  plants  by  the  side  of  it.  and  it  became  the  avenue 


PROFESSOR  PERRY  G.  HOLDEN  149 

over  which  the  commerce  of  a  continent  has  passed.  Samuel  Walter 
Foss  then  falters,  and  says :  "But  you  know  that  was  three 
centuries  ago,  and  I  infer  that  the  calf  is  now  dead."  The  good 
people  of  Boston  cannot  straighten  that  calf  path  today.  You  people 
are  building,  have  been  building  and  are  building  a  great  empire.  The 
religion,  the  calf  paths  of  home-making,  and  the  calf  paths  of 
humanity-making — those  calf  paths  that  you  have  been  making  and 
will  make  for  the  next  twenty  or  thirty  years  will  be  the  calf  paths 
that  our  children's  children's  children  must  tread  for  the  thousands 
and  the  tens  of  thousands  of  years  to  come.  Building  so,  putting  the 
very  best  that  we  have  into  our  lives  at  this  time,  that  we  may  help 
to  make  those  calf  paths  straight,  that  it  may  be  said  a  thousand 
and  ten  thousand  years  from  today:  O,  they  builded  better  than  they 
knew.  I  wonder  if  we  begin  to  realize  the,  tremendous  responsibilities 
that  rest  upon  us  at  this  hour  and'  this  clay.  People,  I  am  wondering  if 
you  will  lose  your  great  birth-right ;  and  what  a  birth-right  you  have ! 
Men  and  women  like  these  who  came  here,  came  over  this  great 
continent,  years  ago  and  suffered  as  they  suffered,  lost  their  dear 
ones,  as  they  did,  and  endured  that  they  might  come  here  and  build 
up  an  empire  that  should  represent  their  principles !  They  sacrificed 
much. 

And  now,  you  know,  people,  I  am  wondering  if  you  and  I  are 
willing  to  cross  a  continent  today,  as  they  crossed  a  continent  in  those 
days  that  have  gone  by.  If  we  are  not  willing  to  suffer  as  they 
suffered,  if  we  are  not  willing  to  go  through  what  they  went  through, 
then  we  are  losing  our  birth-right.  I  fear  there  are  many  of  us 
younger  people  that  would  not  endure,  would  not  think  of  going 
through  all  that  they  have  gone  through;  and  don't  you  think  for  a 
moment  that  there  isn't  just  as  much  need  of  suffering  today  for 
principles,  for  rights,  for  our  boys  and  girls,  for  our  homes,  and 
for  America  as  there  was  in  those  days.  The  question  is  whether 
we  are  consecrated,  whether  we  are  dedicated,  whether  we  have  a 
vision !  In  my  estimation  your  Church  illustrates  better  than  any- 
thing I  have  ever  known  in  all  America,  the  great  principle  of  vision. 
Where  there  is  no  vision  the  people  perish,  and  today  you  are  blessed, 
because  the  people  before  you  had  a  vision,  and  not  only  had  a  vision, 
but  were  willing  to  live  and  die  for  it  if  necessary.  That  is  what 
made  you  great.  I  admire  your  great  buildings,  I  admire  your  tem- 
ple, I  admire  your  fine  buildings  and  schools  that  I  find  everywhere, 
all  over  this  land  of  yours ;  but,  people,  more  than  all,  do  you  know 
what  I  admire  most?  It  is  your  people  whom  you  have  reared  under 
this  religion  of  yours.  When  I  said  to  you  I  was  a  friend  of  the 
"Mormons,"  I  meant  all  that  could  be  said  in  those  words.  It  was 
not  to  please  you.  It  was  because  I  believe  in  it.  A  religion  that 
will  do  what  your  religion  has  done,  not  only  for  the  temporal  things, 
but  for  human  beings,  for  God,  is  certainly  a  great  religion,  and  you 


150  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

ought  to  be  proud  of  it.  I  want  to  say  to  you  that  the  time  is  coming 
when  your  religion  is  going  to  be  understood  as  it  should  be  under- 
stood, in  this  world,  and  I  want  to  say  that  through  some  of  the 
things  that  you  have  been  doing,  you  have  come  into  more  favor- 
able attention  over  the  United  States,  within  the  last  two  or  three 
years,  than  in  all  the  time  put  together  before. 

You  have  thought  of  your  boys,  of  your  girls,  of  your  homes,  and 
it  is  the  outgrowth  of  religion  that  made  it  possible  to  put  through 
your  legislatures  that  wonderful  bill  that  prevents  the  use  of  cigarettes 
in  this  state,  and  I  say  it  should  go  out  to  all  of  the  states  of  this 
Union.  It  is  wonderful  what  your  religion  has  done.  Let  me  say  to 
you,  that  I  fear  sometimes  that  the  people  who  enjoy  it,  who  live 
here  and  have  not  been  out,  as  some  of  us  have,  over  all  this  great 
world,  do  not  appreciate  the  greatness  of  what  you  have.  I  wish 
that,  some  way,  I  could  say  it  to  you. 

I  wonder  if  you  will  pardon  me  for  saying  one  or  two  little 
things?  They  may  seem  entirely  out  of  place,  but  I  couldn't  help 
but  think  of  it  as  those  words  were  uttered  here  by  the!  former 
speaker.  Last  year,  as  I  was  in  your  state,  I  went  out  over  it  with 
the  hope  of  holding  a  large  meeting  with  the  one  motto  in  mind 
that  a  state  is  made  of  men  and  women,  and  not  of  houses  and  fac- 
tories and  wealth.  So,  I  went  out.  I  was  telling  them  of  your  schools 
and  your  education,  and  as  I  was  leaving  Provo  for  a  trip  through 
to  Ogden,  where  I  was  to  speak,  some  of  the  people  from  the  east 
with  me  on  that  commission,  said:  "Mr.  Holden,  these  people  look 
very  much  like  other  people."  And  I  said :  "Why,  yes,"  but  I  said 
that  there  is  a  good  deal  of  difference  in  some  respects,  and  I  want 
to  tell  you  of  one  or  two  of  the  things  I  have  noticed,  as  I  have  been 
out  here  working  among  these  people.  I  will  demonstrate  it  to  you 
— and  I  said,  do  you  know  anywhere  through  Colorado  or  Illinois  or 
Iowa,  or  everywhere  you  stop  at  a  depot,  that  there  you  find  young 
men  about  the  depot,  leaning  up  against  the  wall  or  railing,  smoking 
and  chewing  and  passing  remarks  about  the  people  that  get  on  and 
off  the  train?  Now,  I  have  gone  up  and  down  this  state,  and  it 
has  been  peculiar  to  me  that  I  haven't  observed  that  anywhere.  And 
they  said  nothing,  and  we  got  through  to  Ogden,  and  one  of  them 
turned  to  the  other,  and  then  they  turned  to  me,  and  said:  "Mr. 
Holden,  we  thought  we  would  take  you  up  on  that  statement,"  and 
they  said,  "We  have  made  a  good  many  stops" — I  don't  know  how 
many,  twenty  or  thirty  stops — "and  we  have  yet  to  see  the  first  young 
man  standing  by  the  side  of  the  depot  smoking,  on  our  trip  through." 
Now,  I  was  glad  that  it  didn't  happen  that  there  were  any  boys 
smoking  while  they  were  in  my  company. 

The  other  night,  at  Rexburg,  at  that  wonderful  little  city — and 
I  want  to  say  to  you  that  you  have  a  little  city  up  there  that  is 
setting  an  example  to  the  rest  of  the  world — throughout  the  year, 
every  year,  all  the  program:  which  you  are  putting  over  there,  and 


PROFESSOR  PERRY  G.  HOLDEN  151 

which  you  have  been  putting  over  there,  is  wonderful.  It  is  helpful. 
It  must  go  through  all  the  United  States,  and  you  people  are  setting 
the  example  to  us.  As  Mr.  Ryan  came  down  the  street  he  was  telling 
this  little  incident:  By  the  front  of  the  town  hail,  there  were  a 
bunch  of  young  people  gathered,  and  he  went  away  first,  then  came 
back  and  walked  back  and  forth  two  or  three  times,  that  he  might 
observe.  During  the  time  that  he  was  there  not  a  cigarette  was  in 
evidence,  not  a  cigar;  neither  was  there  any  profane  language,  or 
any  language  that  wouldn't  be  proper  before  the  father  and  the 
mother,  and  he  told  that  incident  there ;  and  that  has  been  my  obser- 
vation. Now  people,  your  principles  are  right,  but  are  we  realizing, 
are  we  living  up  to  them  fully,  or  are  we  drifting  away  just  a  little 
bit? 

Now,  I  want  to  say,  as  I  said  to  some  people  over  at  Payson  the 
other  day.  "There  are  two  kinds  of  audiences  I  like  to  speak  to. 
One  is  a  penitentiary  audience  and  another  is  a  'Mormon'  audience; 
for,"  I  said,  "you  know  that  no  matter  what  happens  or  how  late  it 
is  you  know  they  will  all  be  there  until  you  get  through."  And  you 
know,  good  people,  that  one  of  the  things  that  impressed  so  much 
those  eastern  people,  as  they  came  here  last  year,  was  that  when 
you  open  your  meetings  you  open  with  a  prayer,  and  ask  that  the 
people  might  have  open  hearts  and  willing  souls  to  gather  from  what 
the  speaker  may  say  something  to  take  home;  and  then  they  closed 
with  prayer  that  we  shall  take  home  some  of  these  things  and  put 
them  into  our  lives  and  into  our  practices.  I  hope  you  will  never 
give  up  those  little  customp,  because  they  are  wonderful.  Another 
thing  that  you  are  different  in,  the  little  courtesies,  which  you  always 
have,  that  of  your  seeking  to  put  respect  and  dignity  into  all  things. 
I  must  compliment  you  upon  those  things  because  they  belong  to 
you.  And  there  are  a  good  many  things  that  stand  for  education ; 
and  you  stand  for  the  boys  and  the  girls,  as  was  said  in  these  words 
by  the  President,  that  if  you  will  take  care  of  the  young  men  of  the 
Church  today,  and  the  young  women,  the  young  men  and  the  young 
women  will  take    care  of  the  Church  tomorrow. 

Now  we  must  do  our  duty  in  our  homes.  If  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  is  in  your  souls  to  such  an  extent,  I  may  tell  you  of  an 
experience  and  not  be  misunderstood,  for  it  is  not  egotism.  It  is 
just  my  wish  to  help  to  put  into  your  souls  and  hearts  those  things 
that  you  can  take  back  with  you  to  make  better  homes,  better  educa- 
tion and  a  better  Church,  and  so  I  want  to  tell  of  this  little  thing. 
When  growing  up  in  our  own  home  we  had  to  work.  It  was  so  new, 
we  were  one  hundred  and  fifty  miles  from  the  end  of  the  railroad, 
and  we  grubbed  the  stumps  and  worked;  and  they  had  a  ball  game, 
and  we  wanted  to  go  to  the  ball  game  on  Saturday  afternoon.  Father 
didn't  seem  to  think  that  was  worth  while,  and  we  got  a  notion  into 
our  heads  that  we  were  going  to  the  ball  game,  and  we  would  run 
away   from   home.      We  were   passing   from   the   barbarian   stage,   I 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

think,  at  that  time.  But  that  was,  nevertheless,  the  situation.  So, 
we  decided  we  were  going  down  to  the  house  and  tell  father  we 
wouldn't  work  like  this  all  the  while,  unless  we  had  a  chance  to  play 
a  little  bit.  So,  finally,  it  was  decided  to  do  it,  and  then  the  question 
came  as  to  who  should  go ;  and  that  was  different !  But  finally,  my 
brother  gave  a  suggestion,  that  may  be,  if  all  went  down  he  wouldn't 
lick  all  of  us.  So  we  all  started  and  went  pretty  fast  for  a  ways. 
Finally,  we  got  to  going  a  little  slower,  as  the  importance  of  the  case 
dawned  upon  us ;  and,  by  the  time  we  got  pretty  near  to  our  house, 
we  saw  father  go  out  towards  the  barn.  We  let  him  go,  and  went  to 
the  house  and  told  mother  instead  of  father.  Father  was  one  of 
those  stern,  New  England  people  who  always  said:  "Boys,  I  guess 
you  had  better  do  so  and  so,  now," — he  never  guessed  but  once,  and 
so  you  see  how  it  was  we  told  mother  about  it !  I  will  never  forget 
as  we  came  into  the  house,  and  my  brother  began  to  tell  how  we 
wasn't  going  to  work  like  this,  she  turned  and  looked  at  us  and  then 
she  rubbed  out  the  piece  of  dough  in  her  hand,  looked  down  the  side 
once  or  twice,  and  when  she  was  through  she  turned  around  and 
with  a  smile,  she  lined  us  up  by  the  crack  in  the  floor  of  the  old  log 
cabin — and  then  she  stood  back  and  looked  us  over  and  she  said : 
"Boys,  you're  not  working  too  hard,"  that  is  not  what  is  ailing  you, 
it  is  work  that  will  make  you.  If  you  don't  work  you  will  be  tramps, 
you  will  be  beggars  and  will  be  in  the  penitentiary  somewhere."  She 
said :  "No,  I  know  what  is  the  matter  with  you,  you  want  to  go  down 
to  that  ball  game  on  Saturday."  She  had  just  touched  the  spot. 
Now,  I  don't  know  how  we  got  away  from  that  place.  I  can't  remem- 
ber a  thing  about  it.  I  think  we  just  evaporated,  but  anyway  on  this 
next  Monday  morning  the  thing  happened  in  our  home  that  trans- 
formed it  and  transformed  our  lives.  I  think  father  and  mother  had 
had  a  consultation  over  our  difficulties,  over  Sunday,  and  as  Monday 
morning  came  and  breakfast  was  over,  father  stood  around  a  little 
and  by  and  by — he  didn't  know  what  else  to  do — he  went  out  and  cut 
an  armful  of  wood. 

While  he  was  out,  mother  spoke  up  and  said:  "Boys,  why  don't 
you  sit  down  and  talk  with  your  father  a  little  while?  May  be  you 
can  arrange  to  go  to  that  ball  game  Saturday."  Father  came  in. 
He  threw  the  wood  in  the  box,  and  then  he  stood  around  again  for  a 
little  while,  and  we  all  stood  around.  By  and  by  mother  saw  the 
situation,  and  I  sometimes  think  that  mothers  have  a  little  longer 
vision  than  fathers,  and  she  said :  "Father,  it's  raining  this  morning 
a  little,  why  don't  you  sit  down  and  visit  with  the  boys  ?  I  guess  they 
would  like  to  talk  to  you."  He  sat  out  the  chairs  and  mother  started 
about  the  work,  but  he  said :  "No,  mother,  we  want  you  to  sit  down 
with  us  for  a  few  minutes."  When  we  were  seated  he  raised  up  his 
hand  like  this,  two  or  three  times,  and  he  said :  "Boys,  your  mother 
and  I  have  been  trying  to  get  a  little  together  so  that  you  wouldn't 
have  quite  as  hard  a  time  getting  started  in  the  world  as  we   had, 


PROFESSOR  PERRY  G.  H OLDEN  153 

but  it  is  all  for  you.  We  can't  take  it  with  us.  Now,"  he  said,  "I 
want  you  to  help  plan  the  work  for  this  farm  for  next  year." 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  fathers  and  mothers,  that  that  was  the 
richest,  and  I  think  the  best,  thing  ever  said  in  our  home.  "I  want 
you  to  help  me  plan  the  work  for  this  farm  for  next  year!"  The 
sun  was  brighter,  the  grove  was  greener.  My,  I  got  through  early 
that  day,  and  came  around  the  corner  to  get  the  mail,  but  really 
to  tell  the  boys  all  about  what  we  were  going  to  do  on  vthe  farm 
next  year.  On  next  Monday  morning,  when  breakfast  was  over, 
father  said:  "Boys  don't  you  think  it  would  be  a  good  thing  for  us  to 
sit  down  for  a  few  minutes  and  plan  the  work  for  the  week?"  So 
from  that  'lay  until  my  father's  death,  we  sat  down  for  a  few  mo- 
ments, about  fifteen  to  thirty"  minutes  every  Monday  morning,  and 
there  we  planned  and  talked  over  together  the  things  we  were  to  do. 

The  idea  of  us  boys  helping  father  plan  the  work !  I  remember 
thi.  Monday  morning,  when  we  were  through,  father  said:  "Well, 
boys,  I  have  no  criticism  only  this,  you  planned  too  much."  He  said, 
"it  might  rain,  or  perhaps  you  would  like  to  go  to  the  ball  game  Sat- 
urday afternoon."  And  now  I  want  to  say  another  little  thing.  He 
said :  "Boys,  remember  that  when  we  agree  to  do  certain  things  we 
must  do  them,  if  it  takes  all  night."  And  I  have  been  glad  a  thous- 
and times  over  what  he  said,  and  through  all  the  years  after,  father 
never  carried  out  anything  else  that  wasn't  agreed  on,  unless  we  had 
a  meeting  and  settled  it. 

And  I  want  to  say,  folks,  if  we  are  to  have  great  men  and 
women,  with  richness  in  their  souls,  truth  in  their  lives,  and  relia- 
bility and  dependability,  we  must  make  them  in  the  home  primarily. 
It  must  not  be  turned  over  to  the  school  alone,  because  it  is  a  task 
that  they  can  not  handle  alone,  as  much  as  they  can  do.  And  I  have 
been  thankful  that  through  all  these  years,  no  matter  how  trivial  a 
thing  was  promised,  that  thing  was  granted. 

One  of  your  good  citizens,  you  would  know  his  name  if  I  men- 
tioned it,  at  Logan  the  other  day  came  to 'me  and  said:  "Mr.  Holden, 
I  am  sorry  that  I  cannot  hear  you  in  the  tabernacle  today,  because  I 
promised  my  pupils  that  I  would  go  up  the  canyon  and  eat  dinner 
with  them,  and  I  mustn't  disappoint  them."  You  know  how  proud 
I  was  of  that  citizen  who  was  keeping  faith  with  these  dear  boys  and 
girls !    That  is  one  of  the  grandest  things  that  could  possibly  be  done. 

Now  people,  just  one  other  thought,  and  I  must  close.  I  want  to 
refer  to  a  little  thing  that  has  had  a  great  influence  on  me  through- 
out my  life,  and  that  was  a  great  teacher.  I  was  a  good  deal  of 
trouble  to  all  of  the  teachers  that  came  to  me,  and  they  troubled  me 
a  good  deal.  They  seemed  to  think  that,  some  way,  they  had  to  lick 
me  in  order  to  settle  everything  for  the  whole  school,  and  I  guess 
that  was  all  right,  as  I  think  about  it,  though  I  didn't  at  that  time ; 
but  the  time  came  when  we  had  a  great  teacher  come  into  our  midst, 
and  that  teacher  wasn't  looking  for  the  bad  that  was  in  us.     He  was 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

looking  for  the  good  that  was  in  us.  I  want  to  say  to  you  people  if 
we  go  through  this  world  looking  for  the  bad,  we  find  it  everywhere, 
but  if  we  go  through  this  world  looking  for  the  good  that  is  in  it, 
we  find  it  everywhere ;  and  this  teacher  was  looking  for  the  good 
in  it.  One  time  as  I  leaped  out  of  the  door  of  the  school  house,  at 
recess,  I  landed  in  his  hands.  I  went  out  with  a  whoop  and  yell.  You 
could  hear  me  half  a  block  away,  and  he  got  me,  and  I  thought  my 
time  had  come,  but  instead  of  that  I  felt  him  pulling  away  at  my 
chin,  and  he  was  smiling,  and  that  was  an  event  in  my  life,  because 
no  teacher  ever  smiled  on  me  before.  And  as  he  pulled,  tugged  away 
on  it,  he  made  a  little  remark.  The  great  railroad  had  been  built 
into  Traverse  city,  and  we  had  been  down  to  see  the  great  iron  horse 
that  pulled  the  train — he  said:  "My  boy,  you  have  lots  of  energy, 
haven't  you?"  and  I  agreed  to  that  all  right.  He  said:  "Do  you 
know,  my  boy,  it  is  the  same  steam  in  an  engine  that  makes  it  go 
ahead  that  makes  it  go  backward.  It  all  depends  on  which  way  you 
pull  the  lever."  Further  he  said:  "Do  you  know,  my  hoy,  it  is  the 
same  energy  in  you  that  will  make  you  go  ahead  and  do  something 
worth  while  in  this  world  or  perhaps  send  you  back  into  the  peni- 
tentiary? It  all  depends  on  which  way  you  pull  the  lever."  And  you 
know,  good  people,  up  at  Rexburg,  as  we  went  over  to  that  indus- 
trial school,  that  little  saying  of  that  great  teacher  came  into/  my  mind, 
■and  at  other  times,  that  they  had  pulled  the  wrong  lever.  Your 
Mutual  Improvement  association,  nobody,  or  any  thing,  no  father 
or  great  teacher  had  taken  a  hold  of  the  very  life  of  that  very 
boy  or  girl  at  the  right  time,  so  they  pulled  in  the  wrong  direction. 
You  know  over  in  Chicago  that  seventy-three  per  cent  of  the  crimes 
and  murders  are  committed  by  our  young  men,  from  the  ages  of  17 
to  23  years — just  the  time  when  we  lose  so  many  of  them,  just  the 
time  when  they  are  full  of  the  ambition  to  do  something  in  this  world, 
and  they  simply  pull  that  lever  in  the  wrong  direction.  Well,  this 
teacher  didn't  stop  there.  He  said :  "My  boy,  I  would  like  if  you 
will  do  a  little  thing  for  me  for  thirty  days  and  then  if  you  like  it, 
follow  it  all  of  your  life."  And  do  you  know  what  it  was?  It  was  a 
very  simple  little  thing,  but  it  has  just  made  a  wonderful  difference 
in  my  life.  He  said :  "When  you  get  up  in  the  morning,  and  look 
out  in  this  great,  great  world  again,  instead  of  getting  up  dreamy  like, 
with  your  hands  in  your  pockets,  with  a  grouch  on  ready  for  trouble, 
just  swing  those  good  arms  of  yours  a  little  and  look  out  and  see 
what  a  great  day  it  is,  the  best  day  of  all  creation,  because  you  have 
back  of  you  all  that  humanity  has  accomplished,  you  are  heir  to  it 
all."  And  he  said :  "It  is  the  greatest  day  of  all  creation*  because 
you  have  ahead  of  you  all  of  the  things  yet  to  be  accomplished,"  and 
then  he  continued.  "Stop  just  long  enough  to  hold  up  your  right 
hand  and  say:  "This  day  I  will  beat  my  own  record.  I  will  put 
the  best  I  have  in  this  day's  work."  - 

Why,   Mr.    President,   there   is   power   enough    in   this    organiza- 


PROFESSOR  PERRY  G.  HOLDEN  155 

tion  gathered  here,  to  go  back  of  certain  fundamental  things  that  you 
are  to  put  over  for  this  year's  work  and  accomplish  it,  no  matter 
what  the  obstacles  are ;  and  when  you  put  it  over,  it  means  that  it  will 
go  throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  this  land,  and  among  the 
nations  of  the  world.  It  is  wonderful  what  you  can  accomplish  when 
all  have  the  spirit  of  co-operation,  have  the  spirit  of  working  together. 

I  want  to  give  just  one  little  illustration,  and  that  is  this,  to  show 
what  it  means  to  co-operate  and  to  aid  at  the  same  thing  and  at  the 
same  time.  You  have  that  opportunity  in  greater  degree  here  than  in 
any  other  organization  thai  I  know  of  in  these  United  States.  One 
morning  as  I  went  down  to  my  office,  in  Chicago,  a  great  plate  glass 
window  had  been  broken  in,  and  the  furs  stolen  out,  and  I  looked  a 
little  farther  and.  there  I  saw  a  gunny  sack  filled  with  about  two  pecks 
of  sand.  The  burglar  had  gone  across  Michigan  avenue  and  scooped 
up  a  little  sand,  and  then  come  over  and  slung  it  through  the  window 
to  break  it.  I  couldn't  help  but  think  had  he  had  a  train  full  of  sand, 
taking  up  a  handful  of  sand  at  one  time,  he  could  have  been  throwing 
sand  yet  and  he  could  not  have  broken  the  window ;  and  yet,  when  he 
organized  a  peck  of  it,  it  went  through  easily.  People,  are  we  too 
much  divided,  a  little  there  and  here,  and  over  yonder,  throwing 
sand,  little  handsful  of  sand?  Oh,  if  we  can  unite,  then  set  out  to 
work  at  it,  like  you  have  with  the  anti-cigarette  law ;  after  you  ac- 
complished what  you  did  with  your  cigarette  law,  there  is  nothing 
that  cannot  be  accomplished  that  is  good. 

Now,  people,  it  has  been  a  pleasure  to  me  to  talk  to  you.  I  wish 
there  was  something  I  coidd  say  that  would  stimulate  you,  that 
would  make  you  want  every  morning  to  put  the  best  you  have  into 
the  day's  work,  and  into  the  years  of  your  work.  Let  us  remember 
that  no  matter  what  the  troubles  are  that  come  to  us,  if  we 
solve  them  they  are  for  our  own  benefit,  and  remember  that  there  is 
a  worst  place  in  every  road,  and  we  have  struck  it  perhaps  now,  but 
that  is  no  reason  why  we  should  lay  down  and  give  up.  We  must 
go  through  those  worst  places,  we  must  measure  up  to  it,  and  I  have 
noticed  them  through  all  my  work,  throughout  my  life,  that  the  peo- 
ple who  have  done  things  for  this  world  are  the  people  who  have  car- 
ried a  burden,  are  the  people  who  have  crossed  a  continent  for  their 
principles  and  their  religion.     I  thank  you. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Come,  come,  ve  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor 
fear." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  feel  gratified  for  the  very  splendid  compliments  that  have  been 
paid  to  our  people  by  the  previous  speaker,  and  on  behalf  of  the 
Saints  here  we  thank  him,  particularly  for  the  words  of  praise  that  he 
has  spoken  regarding  us,  azvay  from  Salt  Lake  City.    T  feel,  as  he  has 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

said,  that  we  are  coming  into  our  own.  It  was.  like  an  oasis  in  the 
desert,  a  few  years  ago,  to  find  anybody  who  was  willing  to  say  anything 
good  about  the  "Mormons ;"  but  some  of  the  finest  and  most  energetic 
and  most  faithful  men  in  all  America  today,  educationally  and  in  other 
lines,  are  beginning  to  say  good  things  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
want  to  say  to  Professor  Hold'en  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  sang  "Come, 
come,  ye  Saints,"  as  they  crossed  the  plains,  with  all  their  hearts  and 
with  all  their  souls,  feeling  every  word  of  the  lines : 

"And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  all  is  well! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil,  and  sorrow  too, 
With  the  just  we  shall  dwell," 

The  young  men  and  the  young  women  of  the  "Mormon"  Church 
who  live  up;  to  the  principles  of  their  fathers,  are  as  loyal  and  as  deter- 
mined and  as  willing  to  sacrifice  today  as  were  their  fathers,  their 
grandfathers,  and  their  great  grandfathers,  for  that  which  we  know 
and  proclaim  to  all  the  world  to  be,  in  very  deed,  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation,  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer. 

A  baritone  solo  entitled,  "The  Golden  Pathway,"  was  sung  by 
August  Glissmeyer. 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.   NIBLEY 

{Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church.) 

The  responsibility  of  speaking  to  a  congregation  like  this  is  a 
task  from  which  I  naturally  shrink,  but  I  feel  honored,  nevertheless,  in 
being  asked  to  occupy  the  short  time  that  is  left  for  our  afternoon  meet- 

I  am  one  of  those  who  sang  this  hymn,  "Come,  come  ye  saints," 
often  around  the  camp-fires  as  we  journeyed  across  the  plains  with 
our  ox-teams,  in  the  year  1860.  Many  and  many  a  night  around  our 
camp-fires  did  we  sing  it.  I  was  eleven  years  at  that  time,  so  I  re- 
member the  incidents  and  circumstances  of  that  long  journey  very  well, 
and  of  our  early  settlement  here  in  these  valleys.  We  outfitted  at 
Florence,  just  above  Omaha,  on  the  Missouri  River,  and  started  from 
there  in  June,  and  arrived  at  Salt  Lake  City  in  September ;  so  we  were 
just  about  three  months  in  making  the  journey.  It  was  a  wild,  Indian, 
desert  country  in  those  days,  and  on  the  bluffs  along  the  upper  Platte 
River,  the  buffaloes  covered  the  ranges  in  great  abundance. 

Arriving  here,  we  didn't  know  what  to  do  nor  where  to  go.  Some 
friends  or  ours  told  us  there  was  quite  a  colony  of  Scotch  people  who 
had  gone  up  into  Cache  Valley  that  spring,  and  they  thought  that 
might  be  a  good  place  for  us  to  go.  We  didn't  know  in  the  least  where 
that   was — whether   it   was   north    or   south   or   east   or   west.        We 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY.  157 

didn't  know  anything  about  the  elevation — whether  it  was  too  cold  or 
too  dry,  or  what  it  was.  Indeed,  we  knew  nothing  about  it.  We  simply 
went  where  there  were  some  people  whom  my  parents  had  known  in 
the  Old  Country.  There  we  settled.  We  lived  in  a  dugout  the  first 
winter.  A  good  many  of  you  people,  Latter-day  Saints  who  are 
here  today,  hard  y  know  what  a  dugout  is,  but  we  older  ones  know. 
I  know  very  well  about  it,  for  we  lived  in  the  dugout,  and  lived  there 
in  extreme  poverty. 

The  first  work  I  did  there  as  a  child  was  to  help  my  mother  glean 
heads  of  wheat  from  the  wheat  fields,  which  had  been  cut  with  the  scythe 
or  cradle,  for  there  were  no  mowing  machines  or  reapers  and  self- 
binders  in  those  days.  After  we  had  gleaned  this  wheat,  the  heads  being 
tied  in  little  bundles,  we  took  a  wash-board  and  rubbed  the  heads  on  it, 
and  thus  thrashed  out  the  wheat.  This  was  our  thrashing  machine. 
Of  course,  there  was  the  chaff  and  some  smut  mixed  in  the  heads  of 
wheat,  and  I  had  to  spread  the  wheat  on  a  wagon  cover  and  take  a  tin 
plate  and  throw  it  up  in  the  air,  and  the  little  breeze  that  was  blowing 
would  blow  the  chaff  from  the  wheat.  This  was  our  fan  mill.  We 
then  ground  this  wheat  between  two  millstones,  for  there  was  nothing 
to  the  grist  mill  at  that  time  except  two  millstones;  and  being  ground 
in  that  way,  the  flour  was  quite  dark  and  it  made  a  black  bread,  but  a 
very  wholesome  bread,  after  all.  We  had  that  flour  made  into  porridge 
for  breakfast,  baked  into  cakes  or  scones  for  dinner  and  supper.  That, 
with  baked  or  boiled  potatoes,  was  pretty  much  all  the  food  we  had 
to  eat. 

Soon  I  had  to  act  as  herd  boy  and  was  sent  out  to  watch  our  two 
cows  to  see  that  they  didn't  stray  off,  and  to  bring  them  home  at  night 
to  be  milked,  for  one  of  the  chief  parts  of  our  living  was  the  milk  from 
the  two  cows.  My  suit  of  clothes,  which  my  mother  had  made  for 
me  after  we  arrived  in  the  valley,  consisted  of  a  shirt  and  a  pair  of 
pants,  both  made  out  of  the  tent  cover  that  we  had  used  in  crossing 
the  plains.  It  was  pretty  stiff  and  hard  cloth,  tfor  it  was  weather- 
beaten,  but  it  was  all  that  I  had — that  and  a  rope  around  my -waist  to 
keep  the  suit  together.     That  was  the  extent  of  my  wardrobe. 

Everybody  who  has  crossed  the  plains  will  recall  that  after  we  got 
to  the  valley  and  began  to  get  potatoes  and  a  slight  variety  of  food  dif- 
ferent from  what  we  had  had  on  the  plains,  that  naturally  we  were 
quite  hungry.  My  mother  used  to  put  me  up  a  little  lunch  as  I  went 
out  to  herd  the  cows,  and  generally  I  would  have  it  eaten  before  I  got 
half  a  mile  from  home.  Then  I  didn't  have  a  thing  for  dinner.  I 
simply  had  to  tighten  my  rope  for  dinner.  Now,  it  is  all  very  easy  to 
laugh  and  joke  about  it ;  and,  to  tell  you  the  truth,  I  didn't  realize  the 
hardships  that  we  were  passing  through,  because  I  was  not  yet  old 
enough.  But  my  parents  did  suffer  and  sacrificed  and  endured  very 
much.  My  heart  bleeds  as  I  think  of  the  sacrifices  they  made  so  that 
I  might  have  it  easier  to  get  on  and  that  the  path  might  be  made  more 
easy  for  me  and  mine.  But  the  extreme  poverty  that  we  lived  in  is 
fresh  on  my  mind  to  this  day,  and  I  repeat  with  pleasure  the  words  of 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Shakespeare  that  Brother  Stephen  L.  Richards  quoted  this  morning, 
when  I  recall  all  those  experiences,  and  I  say,  in  truth,  and  with  all 
my  soul :  "Sweet  are  the  uses  of  adversity."  The  best  lessons  that  I 
ever  had,  came  through  those  hardships  and  through  being  compelled 
to  practice  the  strictest  economy  and  thrift,  such  as  our  children 
nowadays  don't  know  anything  about.  In  those  days,  it  seems  to  me, 
we  were  more  willing  to  render  service  and  to  sacrifice  for  the  Church 
than  we  are  today.  Why,  in  those  days,  the  people  were  called  on 
to  send  their  teams  back  to  the  Missouri  river  to  help  gather  the  poor 
— those  who  could  not  bring  themselves  to  this  country — and  the  people 
willingly  responded  and  sent  their  oxen  and  wagons  back  to  the  Mis- 
souri river,  year  after  year,  without  money  and  without  price,  to  help 
gather  the  poor.  My  parents  were  of  those  who  had  saved  enough, 
through  Scotch  thrift,  so  that  they  were  able  to  buy  two  yoke  of  cattle 
and  a  couple  of  cows,  and  came  in  what  we  called'  an  independent 
company;  but  there  were  thousands  and  tens  of  thousands  of  people 
helped  to  immigrate  to  this  country  by  the  Saints  here  sending  back 
their  teams  and  their  men  to  gather  up  the  poor  and  bring  those  who 
couldn't  help  themselves. 

This  work  called  "Mormonism"  has  been  a  great  work  of  co-op- 
eration— a  work  of  sacrifice  and  of  helpfulness  to  others.  We  forget, 
sometimes,  in  our  abundance  and  even  super-abundance  of  means,  about 
the  conditions  in  which  the  early  settlers  existed  when  they  were  sub- 
duing the  wilderness  and  making  it  "blossom  as  the  rose."  I  know  very 
well  that  we  have  our  financial  troubles  today,  and  many  of  us,  no  doubt 
feel  that  they  are  about  all  we  can  stand ;  and  yet,  when  we  look  around 
us  and  see  our  multitude  of  blessings  and  compare  them  with  all  the 
poverty  and  the  sacrifices  that  our  parents  made  for  this  work  and 
for  our  blessing  and  salvation,  we  should  be  led  rather  to  glorify  our 
Father  in  heaven  for  his  mercies  to  them  and  to  us. 

I  am  glad  to  hear  such  testimonies  as  we  have  heard  this  after- 
noon from  Professor  Holden,  with  respect  to  the  good  work  that 
has  been  accomplished  by  the  Pioneers  and  by  the  people  who  now  in- 
habit these  valleys.  We  hear  quite  often  now  from  thinking  people, 
a  good  word  spoken  of  the  "Mormon"  people  and  what  they  have  ac- 
complished ;  but  what  has  been  accomplished  is  nothing  in  comparison 
with  what  will  be  our  achievements,  if  we  will  only  continue  in  the 
same  spirit  that  our  parents  exhibited  in  the  founding  of  this  country 
and  in  laying  the  foundations  of  this  great  institution  called  "Mormon- 
ism." We  cannot  conceive  of  what  power,  union  and  strength  will  give 
us  and  how  glorious  and  mighty  this  work  will  become  if  only  we  con- 
tinue willing  to  give  it  the  service  and  sacrifice  that  it  merits. 

On  every  hand  we  see  evidences  of  disintegration,  or  disorder,  of 
anarchy,  and  of  the  lack  of  the  cohesive  qualities  that  hold  society 
together.  The  great  moral  principles,  love  of  one  another  and  obe- 
dience to  law  and  order,  are  greatly  lacking  these  days.  One  almost 
trembles  for  the  condition  one  sees  abroad  in  the  world  today.    In  Ger- 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIB  LEY  159 

many,  in  France,  in  Russia,  and  even  in  England  itself,  old  England, 
the  most  glorious  of  the  old  countries,  which  I  hope  and  pray  will  live 
as  a  nation  and  prosper  for  centuries  to  come,  because  of  the  great 
good  she  has  done  to  all  the  world,  in  being  the  cradle  of  liberty,  and 
in  breaking  down  oppression  and  misrule  and  tyranny  for  hundreds  of 
years ;  and  yet  in  England  today,  it  is  just  a  question  of  whether  the 
government  can  stand  at  all  or  not.  Obedience  to  law  and  submission 
to  the  orderly  procedure  of  civilized  society  are  being  broken  down 
and  there  arises  something  above  all  that — the  unions,  the  secret  socie- 
ties, the  pledges  that  men  make  that  they  will  abide  by  their  unions  and 
obey  them,  rather  than  obey  the  law  of  the  land ;  and  so,  right  at  this 
very  hour,  it  is  a  question  as  to  whether  the  government  of  England 
shall  stand  or  whether  the  unions  shall  rule,  or  whether  society  and 
civilization  shall  not  be  utterly  broken  down.  The  other  great  coun- 
tries of  Europe,  we  know,  alas,  too  well,  something  of  their  condition. 
In  a  financial  way,  it  seems,  they  are  well  nigh  on  the  verge  of  ruin, 
when  we  see  the  German  mark,  which  should  be  worth  twenty-three 
cents,  quoted,  as  you  can  read  in  the  Dcseret  News,  tonight,  at  one  and 
six-tenths  cents,  which  means  that  it  is  not  worth  six  cents  on  the 
dollar  in  the  markets  of  the  world.  Imagine  a  man  or  corporation 
composed  of  business  men  issuing  due  bills  or  notes  until  the  paper 
they  issue  becomes  worth  less  than  six  cents  on  the  dollar.  You  would 
hardly  expect  that  man  or  firm  to  ever  pay  out.  And  so  it  seems  that 
the  elements  of  disintegration  and  disorder  are  abroad  in  the  world  to 
such  an  extent  that  the  scripture,  which  hath  foretold  of  the  perplex- 
ity of  nations,  is  now  being  fulfilled.  Even  our  own  beloved  nation,  this 
nation  which  the  Lord  himself  has  been  the  means  of  founding,  as  we 
believe,  and  as  we  read  in  our  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  word  of 
the  Lord  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  wherein  he  says : 
"I,  the  Lord,  raised  up  wise  men  for  this  very  purpose;"  that  is,  to 
found  this  Government — and  even  this  nation  today  has  its  perplexities 
so  that  we  hardly  know  where  to  turn. 

Now,  in  the  midst  of  it  all,  notwithstanding  our  small  perplexities 
here  at  home,  we  have  peace,  the  peace  of  the  gospel ;  a  peace  that  no 
other  people  have ;  a  peace  that  passeth  understanding.  Men  cannot 
understand  it,  but  it  is  here — the  peace  of  God;  the  peace  that  comes 
only  through  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  "My  peace  give  I  unto  you." 
Although  we  may  be  in  more  or  less  distressed  circumstances,  yet  that 
we  have,  and  we  know  that  the  Lord  is  at  the  helm ;  we  know  that  this 
is  not  man's  organization.  It  is  the  Lord  God  Almighty  who  revealed 
himself  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith ;  and  through  those  revelations, 
through  those  instructions,  this  organization  has  been  founded,  and 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of 
God,  has  been  given  to  this  Church,  and  that  is  what  holds  it  together 
and  makes  it  great,  and  will  continue  to  hold  it  together  and  make  it 
great,  and  it  is  not  the  power  of  man,  nor  do  we  glory  in  man.  We  do 
not  say,  we  do  not  allow  it  to  be  said,  that  Brigham  Young  has  built 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

up  this  Church.  Brigham  Young  was  the  honored  instrument,  in  the 
hands  of  God,  who  brought  that  scattered,  mobbed,  robbed,  people  to 
this  land  and  declared  that  "This  is  the  place ;  here  we  will  stay,"  when 
it  was  a  most  desolate,  desert-looking  place;  for  this  is  indeed  the 
place.  He  didn't  know,  at  the  time,  the  marvelous  riches  of  this  land, 
but  you  can  draw  a  circle  around  Salt  Lake  City  three  hundred  miles, 
making  this  city  the  center,  and  there  is  more  of  gold,  of  silver,  of 
iron,  of  coal,  of  lead,  of  copper,  and  of  all  the  precious  metals ;  more 
variety  of  grains  and  vegetables  and  fruit  and  flowers ;  more  of  every- 
thing that  is  needful  for  the  use  of  man  within  that  circle  than  in  any 
such  area  in  all  of  the  known  globe.  This  is  the  place.  The  Lord  God 
Almighty,  through  his  prophet,  spoke  it.  Here  is  peace ;  here  is  abund- 
ance, here  is  the  power  which  the  Lord  gave,  and  which  he  alone  has 
given,  and  which  no  other  people  in  the  world  have.  Read  in  the 
same  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  book  of  revelations,  that  the  prophet 
Joseph  Smith  gave,  that  the  rights  of  this  Priesthood  are  inseparably 
connected — connected  so  that  they  cannot  be  separated  from  the  powers 
of  heaven — then  we  are  as  nothing,  and  we,  too,  will  disintegrate  and 
break  in  pieces  and  go  down  and  become  as  nothing. 

But  it  is  true,  and  everlastingly  true,  that  the  rights  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God  are  inseparably  connected  with  the  pow- 
ers of  heaven.  That  being  true,  there  is  a  power,  there  is  a  virility, 
there  is  a  cohesive  strength  that  holds  this  people  together.  I  have 
seen  the  power  and  demonstration  of  the  spirit  manifested  in  the  past 
few  months  down  in  the'  California  mission.  I  have  wondered  some- 
times when  I  have  heard  brethren,  and  some  who  are  not  our  brethren, 
say :  "Well,  you  wait  a  little  while ;  wait  and  see  the  third  generation, 
the  fourth  generation,  and  so  on.  You  will  see  this  thing  going  to 
pieces."  Why,  I  recall  when  I  was  a  boy  eighteen  years  of  age,  work- 
ing in  a  little  hotel  at  Brigham  City,  that  Governor  Stanford,  and  the 
great  men  with  him  who  were  building  the  Pacific  Railroad  at  that 
time,  stayed  at  this  hotel.  I  was  active  around  the  place  as  a  young- 
ster and  had  my  ears  and  eyes  open,  and  I  recall  hearing  them  discuss 
in  that  hotel,  one  evening,  what  a  wonderful  man  this  Brigham  Young 
was ;  how  he  had  gotten  the  people  together  here,  how  he  could  guide 
them,  order  them,  manipulate  them,  and  do  as  he  pleased  with  them, 
and  so  on.  But  Governor  Stanford  and  the  other  wise  men  with  him 
said :  "Wait  until  Brigham  Young  dies,  and  they  will  be  broken  and 
go  to  pieces."  They  didn't  know  what  they  were  talking  about.  I 
have  seen,  in  the  California  mission  within  the  last  two  months,  where 
I  have  traveled  with  President  McMurrin  and  President  Grant,  the 
same  potency,  the  same  virility,  the  same  strength,  the  same  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  my  father  saw  seventy-seven  years  ago  when 
he  joined  the  Church  in  Scotland. 

It  is  right  here  in  the  Church  today,  under  the  Presidency  of 
Heber  J.  Grant,  just  as  much  as  it  ever  was  under  the  Presidency  of 
Brigham  Young,  or  Joseph  F.  Smith,  or  any  other.  Is  it  Heber  J. 
Grant's  power  that  is  doing  it?     No.     Is  it  man's  power  at  all?    No. 


BISHOP  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  161 

It  is  the  power  of  Almighty  God ;  it  is  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost ; 
it  is  the  power  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  inseparably  con- 
nected with  the  powers  of  heaven ;  and  that  is  what  is  giving  guidance, 
and  that  gives  guidance  and  direction  and  cohesion  and  strength  to 
this  great  organization,  and  not  the  power  of  man,  nor  do  we  honor 
man  for  it.  No,  not  to  men  is  the  honor.  Thine,  O  God,  is  the  honor, 
and  the  power,  and  the  glory  forever,  through  Jesus  Christ.  •  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "The  time  is  far  spent,  there  is  little  re- 
maining." 

Benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  Adolph  Merz,  President  of  the 
North  Sanpete  stake  of  Zion. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Wednesday,  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  April  6, 
1921. 


FOURTH   DAY 

Conference  was  opened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Wednesday,  April  6, 
1921,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant  who  pre- 
sided. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad 
morning." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder  James  Wotherspoon,  Presi- 
dent of  the  North  Weber  stake  of  Zion. 

Miss  Colton  sang  a  solo  entitled,  "O  rest  in  the  Lord." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Our  attention  has  been  called  repeatedly,  by  various  of  the 
brethren,  during  this  most  excellent  conference,  to  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord  in  gathering  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  one  place,  and  particu- 
larly the  advantages  which  he  had  in  view  for  our  settlement  in  this 
particular  place ;  and  I  have  been  thrilled  in  my  contemplation  of  this 
glorious  prospect,  and  should  like  to  read  a  few  passages  from  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on  this  subject. 

PURPOSE  OF  THE  GATHERING. 

First,  1  direct  your  attention  to  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Sec. 
29 :7  and  following,  referring  to  the  elders  of  the  Church  and  the 
Saints : 

''And  y>e  are  called  to  bring  to  pass  the  gathering"  of  mine  elect,  for 
mine  elect  hear  my  voice  and  harden  not  their  hearts; 

"Wherefore  the  decree  hath  gone  forth  from  the  Father,  that  they  shall 
he  gathered  in  unto  one  place  upon  the  face  of  this  land,  to  prepare  their 
hearts  and  be  prepared  in  all  things  against  the  day  when  tribulation  and 
desolation  are  sent  forth  upon  the  wicked; 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh,  and  the  day  soon  at  hand,  when  the  earth  is  ripe: 
and  all  the  proud,  and  they  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  as  stubble,  and  I  wall 
burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  wickedness  shall  not  be  upon 
the  earth; 

"For  the  hour  is  nigh,  and  that  which  was  spoken  by  mine  apostles 
must  be  fulfilled;  for  as  they  spoke  so  shall  it  come  to  pass; 

"For  I  will  reveal  myself  from  heaven  with  power  and  great  glory,  with 
all  the  hosts  thereof,  and  dwell  in  righteousness  with  men  on  earth  a  thou- 
sand years,  and  the  wicked  shall  not  stand." 

I  now  ask  you  to  consider  this  passage  from  Section  101,  reading 
at  the  39th  paragraph : 

"When  men  are  called  unto  mine  everlasting  gospel,  and  covenant  with 
an  everlasting  covenant,  they  are  accounted  as  the  salt  of  the  earth,  and  the 
savor  of  men; 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  163 

"They  are  called  to  be  the  savor  of  men.  Therefore,  if  that  salt  of  the 
earth  lose  its  savor,  behold,  it  is  thenceforth  good  for  nothing,  only  to  be 
cast  out,  and  trodden  under  the  feet  of  men." 

Still  another  passage  in  Section  103,  seventh  verse: 

"And  by  hearkening  to  observe  all  the  words  which  I,  the  Lord  their 
God,  shall  speak  unto  them,  they  shall  never  cease  to  prevail  until  the  king- 
doms ,of  the  world  are  subdued  under  my  feet,  and  the  earth  is  given  unto 
the  saints,  to  possess  it  for  ever  and  ever. 

"But  inasmuch  as  they  keep  not  my  commandments,  and  hearken  not 
to  observe  all  my  words,  the  kingdoms  of  the  world  shall  prevail  against 
them. 

"And  inasmuch  as  they  are  not  the  saviors  of  men,  they  are  as  salt 
that  has  lost  its  savor,  and  is  thenceforth  good  for  nothing  but  to  be  cast 
out  and  trodden  under  foot  of  men." 

And  still  another  passage  from  Section  86,  reading  at  the  eighth 
paragraph : 

"Therefoi  e,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you,  with  whom  the  Priesthood 
hath  continued  through  the  lineage  of  your  fathers, 

"For  ye  are  lawful  heirs,  according  to  the  flesh,  and  have  been  hid  from 
the  world  with  Christ  in  God; 

"For  they  were  set  to  be  >a  light  unto  the  world,  and  to  be  the  saviors  of 
men; 

"Therefore  your  life  and  the  Priesthood  hath  remained  and  must  needs 
remain  through  you  and  your  lineage,  until  the  restoration  of  all  things 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began. 

"Therefore,  blessed  are  ye  if  ye  continue  in  my  goodness,  a  light  unto 
the  Gentiles,  and  through  this  Priesthood,  a  savior  unto  my  people  Israel. 
The  Lord  hath  said  it.    Amen." 

These  inspired  utterances,  full  of  great  promise,  and  yet  guarded 
with  caution  and  warning  from  the  Lord,  are  blessings  that  shall  be 
ours  through  faithfulness — these  things,  I  say,  are  an  incentive  and 
an  inspiration  to  all  Latter-day  Saints.  When  I  think  of  their  import, 
what  the  prospects  of  the  future  are,  as  one  of  the  brethren  remarked 
yesterday,  great  as  have  been  the  achievements  of  the  past,  they  are 
but  the  beginning  of  glorious  things  that  shall  be  sung  of  Zion.  Not- 
withstanding the  glory  of  the  past,  the  future  is  more  splendid  than 
the  past  possibly  could  have  been,  because  this  work,  the  work  of 
God,  is  to  roll  forth  until  its  power,  its  glory,  its  influence,  shall  fill 
the  whole  earth,  and  not  be  confined  to  a  few  valleys  up  in  the  tops 
of  the  mountains. 

THE   WORLD'S   OPPOSITION   TO    THE   GATHERING. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am;  sure  as  we  read  the  history  of  the 
various  movements  on  the  part  of  the  Church  to  assemble,  to  establish 
themselves  in  one  place,  we  have  discovered  that  surely  the  enemy  of 
this  work,  who  is  the  devil,  has  been  opposed  to  the  gathering  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  We  were  not  permitted  to  remain  in  the  place 
where,  ninety-one  years  ago  this  very  day,  the  Church  was  organized. 
The  powers  of  evil  were  arrayed  upon  all  hands,  and  the  result  was 


164  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  Church  had  to  move.  Their  gathering  at  Kirtland  again  was  op- 
posed, and  the  powers  of  evil  were  arrayed  against  the  movement  to 
gather  in  the  Saints  from  the  various  parts  of  the  world.  Again  a 
move  was  made  under  pressure  and  force.  Their  gathering  at  Inde- 
pendence, Missouri,  was  fraught  with  the  same  kind  of  danger  and 
difficulty,  mob  violence,  people  fleeing  before  their  enemies,  their 
homes  consigned  to  the,  flames.  Their  other  effort  to  establish 
themselves  in  another  section  of  Missouri  met  with  the  same  kind  of 
opposition.  Do  you  recall  the  individual  who  harangued  the  Saints 
during  the  time  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother  Hyrum  were 
prisoners  incarcerated  in  one  of  the  foulest  dungeons  that  has  dis- 
graced the  footstool  of  God?  They  were  told  never  to  expect  their 
prophet  to  return ;  that  "his  die  was  cast,  and  his  doom  was  sealed," 
and  the  voluntary  advice  given  was  that  if  they  wanted  to  live  at 
peace  and  be|  happy,  never  to  gather  any  more,  but  to  scatter  and  not 
to  organize  wards  and  stakes  but  to  be  like  other  people.  That  is 
what  the  devil  has  desired  from  the  beginning — that  we  should  be  like 
other  people ;  but  the  Lord  has  decreed  that  this  people  should  be  a 
peculiar  people  unlike  other  people.  The  answer  of  President  Young 
and  his  associates,  to  this  advice,  was  that  they  would  not  desert  one 
another  but  would  enter  into  covenant  to  stay  by  one  another  until  the 
poorest  Saint  was  brought  out  of  Missouri.  Again  they  had  a  sim- 
ilar experience  in  their  gathering  at  Nauvoo.  Though  they  grew  here 
to  larger  proportions  and  established  themselves  on  a  more  firm 
basis,  nevertheless,  it  was  the  same  spirit  of  opposition  to  scatter  this 
people,  to  divide  them,  to  send  them  forth,  and  not  to  permit  them  to 
gather  and  to  organize.  The  great  movement  into  the  west  was 
undoubtedly  for  the  purpose  of  giving  this  people  the  chance  to  be 
gathered  and  established  in  peace,  in  security,  until  they  should  be- 
come strong  enough,  their  works  understood  well  enough,  to  find 
favor  in  the  sight  of  good  men  who  would  no  longer  lend  their  in- 
fluence and  power  to  the  breaking  up  of  this  people  and  their  being 
scattered  any  more.  And  transplanted  here  in  this  place,  we  had  the 
opportunity  to  take  root  and  to  grow,  and  still  in  the  time  of  our 
thriving,  behold  the  enemy  was  again  alert.  Through  the  tongue  of 
lying  individuals,  misrepresentations  were  made  that  brought  upon 
this  people  an  army.  No  matter  what  the  purpose  and  motive  was, 
on  the  part  of  those  who  sent  them,  in  their  hearts,  many  of  those 
who  came  here  in  what  was  known  as  Johnston's  Army  came  for  the 
avowed  purpose  of  again  breaking  up  the  foundation  of  this  work. 
Thanks  be  to  God  that  they  did  not  succeed,  and  that  the  Lord  used 
them  as  a  means  to  further  establish  his  work,  and  that  the  day  of 
animosity  that  would  seek  to  disturb  us  and  drive  us  hence  has  passed 
and  gone,  and  at  last  we  have  earned,  in  the  estimation  of  the  lead- 
ers of  our  country  and  a  great  majority  of  our  fellow-citizens,  the 
righc  to  exist  as  organized  bodies.  Thank  the  Lord  for  that  day  of 
triumph. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  165 

But  do  not  suppose,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  enemy  is 
satisfied  or  that  he  is  content  to  leave  us  alone,  for  he  still  is  opposed 
to  the  gathering  of  this  people,  and  if  he  cannot  break  them  up, 
root  and  branch,  and  drive  them  forth,  he  will  lay  siege  against  us 
in  devious  ways,  with  cunning  craftiness.  He  will  seek  by  all  of  his 
power  to  nullify,  as  far  as  possible,  the  great  blessings  the  Lord  had 
in  view  in  the  gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  to  wean  away 
Our  sons  and  daughters,  to  make  paths  here  and  there  that  shall 
divert  them:  away  from  the  gathering  place  and  away  from  the  pur- 
pose of  the  Lord  in!  bringing  this  people  together. 

OUR  SONS  AND  DAUGHTERS  A  HERITAGE  OF  REAL  WORTH. 

We  heard  some  excellent  advice  yesterday  from  Brother  Stephen 
L,  Richards,  on  the  question  of  the  financial  salvation  of  this  people, 
all  of  which  is  important,  of  course,  and  I  desire  to  speak  of  another 
phase  of  this  work  wherein  we  must  exercise  conservation  to  the 
accomplishment  of  the  great  purposes  of  the  Lord  in  our  assembling 
here.  Valuable  as  are  the  material  things  of  this  world,  neverthe- 
less, more  valuable  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God.  Our  boys  and 
our  girls,  as  Doctor  Holden  said  yesterday,  arq  our  heritage  that  is  of 
real  worth.  They  are  worth  more  to  us  than  the  land,  and  all  the 
wealth  of  the  hills  and  the  valleys,  and  it  is  to  the  conservation  of 
these  sons  and  daughters  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  I  desire  to 
direct  the  attention  of  my  brethren  and  sisters  this  morning.  One 
of  the  means  which  the  adversary  has  employed  to  nullify  the  bless- 
ings of  the  gathering  may  be  noted  in  our  several  communities  in  the 
disposition  that  many  of  our  daughters  have,  particularly,  and  some 
of  our  sons,  to  consider  their  birthright  lightly,  to  treat  it  as  a  thing 
of  small  consequence,  and  to  jeopardize  it  by  forming  alliances  in 
marriage  with  those  who  do  not  belong  to  our  faith.  My  brethren 
and  sisters,  when  I  think  of  the  value  of  these  precious  boys  and 
girls,  I  see  also  the  future  of  Zion  in  them.  Our  baptisms!  in  the  mis- 
sion fields,  last  year,  were  the  largest  in  the  history  of  many  years,  if 
not  in  the  history  of  the  Church,  and  from  that  source,  of  course, 
in  years  that  are  past,  we  have  drawn  great  strength  to  the  Church, 
but  while  these  baptisms  shall  undoubtedly  continue  to  bring  into 
the  fold  countless  thousands  of  the  honest  in  heart  from  the  various 
nations  of  the  earth,  nevertheless  the  source  from  which  we  shall 
draw  our  greatest  strength  shall  be  in  the  conversion  and  salvation 
of  our  own  sons  and  daughters,  because  last  year,  for  example,  there 
were  more  than  three  times  as  many  children  born  to  Latter-day 
Saint  parents  as  all  the  baptisms  that  were  accomplished  in  the  world. 

WE  MAY  LOSE  OUR  HERITAGE  BY   WRONG   MARRIAGE. 

So  that,  the   future  growth  of  this  work  depends  upon  saving 
these  boys  and  girls,  that  is,  so  far  as  numerical  strength  is  concerned  ; 


166  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

and  one  of  the  most  fruitful  means  of  losing  them,  of  causing  loss  to 
the  community  purpose  and  interest,  and  weakening  the  organiza- 
tion of  the  Church,  dissipating  our  forces,  is  the  movement  that 
would  have  us  enter  into  marriage  with  those  of  unbelieving  faith. 
Then  I  know,  because  I  have  had  the  opportunity,  and  not  many  men 
have  had  a  better  opportunity,  to  study  this  situation  as  I  have  ob- 
served it  while  presiding  over  the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  for  I 
saw  hundreds  of  our  Latter-day  Saint  girls  and  many  boys  living  in 
Montana,  Idaho,  Oregon,  Washington,  and  on  visits  to  California, 
and  President  McMurrin  could  also  testify  to  this  thing,  for  he  has 
seen  it  in  that  section — hundreds,  I  say,  of  these  Latter-day  Saint  boys 
and  girls  who  have,  married  out  of  their  faith  who  have  drifted  away 
— this  movement  does  not  look  to  the  concentration  and  building  up 
of  our  communities  nor  the  establishmient  of  this  work,  but  it  works 
to"  the  very  opposite.  It  is  scattering,  it  is  dividing,  it  is  dissipating 
our  forces. 

THE  EVILS   OF   BEING   UNEQUALLY   YOKED     TOGETHER. 

I  have  no  quarrel,  nor  shall  I  engage  in  any  quarrel,  with  those 
who  do  not  belong  to  us,  who  have  sought  our  daughters  or  our  sons 
in  marriage.  I  do  not  blame  a  non-"Mormon"  for  trying  to  get  a 
"Mormon"  girl,  because  he  would  not  find  anybody  better  if  he  went 
all  over  the  world ;  but  1  do  seriously  question  the  wisdom  of  that 
boy  or  girl  who  jeopardizes  the  glorious  purposes  and  privileges  the 
Lord  had  for  them,  who,  through  much  tribulation,  brought  their 
parents  to  this  place,  where  they  might  provide  the  .opportunity  for 
believing  sons  and  daughters  to  marry  believing  sons  and  daughters ; 
where  the  opportunity  might  be  provided  for  them  to  grow  up,  like 
calves  in  the  stall,  as  the  ancient  prophet  said,  to  inherit  these  bless- 
ings. I  believe  there  was  wisdom  in  Paul's  statement,  indeed  I  know 
it,  for  I  have  heard  tales  of  sorrow  and  distress  too  long  for  me  to 
repeat  here,  that  would  make  a  volume,  that  have  come  from  those 
disobedient  sons  and  daughters  who  have  disregarded  the  desires  and 
wishes  of  their  parents  and  who  have  made  an  alliance  wherein  they 
are  not  evenly  yoked  together,  and  Paul's  advice  was  good,  that  you 
should  not  be  unevenly  yoked  together.  I  recognize  that  we  are 
not  the  only  Church  which  believes  in  this  doctrine.  We  accord  to  all 
men  the  same  privilege,  to  preach  this  doctrine  and  to  hold  their  own 
within  their  own  circle.  This  is  not  selfish.  We  are  asking  only  that 
which  we  accord  to  others,  and  that  which  others,  many  of  them, 
claim  for  their  own ;  but  in  asking  this  we  are  asking  it  for  the 
peace  and  the  blessing  of  our  boys,  and  girls  first  of  all.  Is  there  hap- 
piness in  the  home  of  those  who  are  unevenly  yoked  together?  My 
experience  is  that  it  is  utterly  impossible  for  a  Latter-day  Saint  girl, 
trained  and  reared  in  a  "Mormon"  home,  with  "Mormon"  ideals  of 
the  right  relationship  of  husband  and  wife,  parents  and  children,  the 
very  family  institution   itself,  the  care  of  children,   their  education, 


ELDER  MELVIN  /.  BALLARD  167 

their  training,  their  care  in  times  of  sickness  and  in  death — there  is 
no  possibility  for  that  boy  or  girl  to  enjoy  to  the  highest  and  the 
fullest  extent  peace  on  earth,  joy  and  happiness  in  this  present  time, 
&&d  salvation  and  glory  in  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God,  under  this 
arrangement ;  it  is  not  possible. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION. 

I  remember  receiving  a  letter  recently  from  a  young  man  on  a 
mission,  who  disregarded  the  advice  I  gave  him,  not  to  take  this  step. 
He  said  ten  me  that  he  now  regretted  it,  because,  he  said,  "We  do  not 
pull  together,  my  wife  and  I  do  not  have  the  same  kind  of  ideals  nor 
ambitions  for  our  children,  and  when  I  ,would  go  ahead  she  holds 
back."  He  said  it  reminded  him  of  an  experience  he  had  on  the 
farm.  They  had  a  team1  of  mules,  and  one  day  one  of  the  mules  took 
sick,  and  in  order  to  let  the  work  go  forward,  they1  substituted  a 
blooded  horse.  When  the  blooded  horse  was  (hitched  up  with  the 
mule,  the  horse  being  faster  and  more  willing  to  go  forward,  every 
time  he  would  get  a  little  ahead  of  the  mule,  the  mule  would  stop,  and 
so,  he  said,  it  was  nothing  but  a  seesaw ;  they  did  not  get  anywhere. 
He  said,  "Now,  that  mule  would  have  been  a  very  good  mule  hitched 
up  with  another  mule,  but  it  wasn't  a  good  thing  to  hitch  it  up  with 
a  blooded  horse."  The  implication  is  again  ,that  you  canjnot  work 
successfully  unequally  yoked  together.  I  do  not  mean  to  imply,  of 
course,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  the  only  ones  that  are  blooded 
horses,  and  all  the  rest  are  mules,  not  at  all,  but  I  do  mean  tot  say  that 
you  do  not  work  successfully  under  that  combination,  and  I  have  re- 
ceived from  more  than  one  girl  the  plea  to  please  convey  to  the 
daughters  of  Israel  their  experience  and  their  advice  not  to  take  the 
step  they  took.    Now,  so  much  for  the  individual  blessing. 

UNEQUAL    MARRIAGE   IS   A   LOSS   TO  THE   CHURCH. 

Then  again,  let  me  say  that  there  is  a  loss  to  the  Church.  How 
many  of  those  born  under  these  circumstances  remain  within  the 
fold  ?  Not  many.  There  is  a  loss  that  we  cannot  afford  to  have 
constantly  dissipating  our  forces  and  running  away  from  us. 

THE    APPROVED    AND    APPOINTED    WAY    OF    MARRIAGE. 

My  brethren  ,and  sisters,  again,  not  only  do  we  desire  that  our 
sons  and  daughters  shall  marry  within  the  fold,  but  we  desire  that 
they  shall  come  into  the  house  of  the  Lord  and  enter  into  the  sacred 
and  holy  obligations  of  matrimony  in  the  Lord's  approved  and  ap- 
pointed way.  We  desire  it  again  for  their  peace,  for  their  salva- 
tion. Our  records  show  that  the  divorce  rate  amiong  those  who  en- 
ter into  marriage  in  this  holy,  approved  way  is  very  much  lower  in 
the  Church  among  that  g'roup  than  among  the  group  who  marry  for 
time  only.     And  why?     Of  course  it  is  significant  to  all  of  us  that 


168  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

those  who  enter  into  these  holy  bonds  of  matrimony  for  time  and 
eternity  do  not  begin  to' plan  to  separate  and  to  part,  but  they  begin 
to  plan  to  live  together  not  only  in  time  but  in  eternity,  for  we  are 
not  building  for  time,  we  are  building  for  eternity  also.  And  there 
are  connected  with  these  blessings  certain  privileges,  of  course,  that 
except  men  shall  enter  into  them  in  this  life,  or  they  are  performed 
in  this  life  for  men  and  women,  those  who  fail  to  receive  these  bless- 
ings cannot  come  into  the  celestial  kingdom  of  God  where  God  and 
Christ  dwell.  It  is  a  "Mormon"  truism!  that  is  current  among  us  and 
we  all  accept  it,  that  as  man  is)  God  once  was  and  a(£  God  is  man  may 
become.  That  does  not  signify  that  man  will  become  God.  I  am  sorry 
to  say,  and  yet  it  is  a  truth,  that  not  many  men  will  become  what 
God  is,  simply  because  they  will  not  pay  the  price,  because  they  are 
not  willing  to  live  up  to  the  requirements ;  and  still  all  men  may,  if 
they  will,  become  what  God  is,  but  only  those  who  are  heirs  of  the 
celestial  glory  shall  ever  be  possible  candidates,  to  become  what  God 
is.  We  desire,  therefore,  that  these  boys  and  girls  shall  have  the 
safety  and  protection  of  this  kind  of  marriage. 

TEMPLE    MARRIAGE    A    PROTECTION    TO    WOMEN 

There  are  some  states  that  have  regulations  providing  for  the 
physical  examination  of  men  and  in  some  instances  women  before 
certificates  of  marriage  are  issued.  I  lived  for  a  long  time  in  a 
state  where  that  practice  was  in  vogue  and  still  is  in  vogue,  and  I 
have  wished  that  this  were  true  everywhere.  But  even  if  it  should 
be  extended  to  all  the  states  of  the  Union,  still  I  say  to  the  daughters 
of  Israel  there  is  a  better  protection  for  you  than  this,  and  a  better 
protection  than  ever  will  be  provided  by  any  law  of  the  land,  in  that 
you  have  the  privilege  of  requiring  the  man  who  proposes  marriage 
to  you  to  put  himself  in  condition  so  that  he  can  pass  muster  before 
his  bishop  to  ascertain  and  to  know — that  that  man  is  not  only  phy- 
sically clean  but  he  is  morally  clean  and  that  he  has  faith  in  God,  that 
he  has  honored  the  holy  Priesthood  and  that  he  is  worthy  to  go  into 
the  house  of  God.  That  protection  is  the  best  that  possibly  can  be 
provided  for  the  daughters  of  Israel,  and  it  is  yours.  Will  you  not 
embrace  it?  Do  not  jeopardize  your  happiness,  your  future  success 
in  time  and  in  eternity,  by!  ignoring  this  great  and  wonderful  privilege 
that  has  been  given  to  the  daughters  of  Israel.  Then  many  a  boy 
who  has  entered  into  that  solemn  and  holy  obligation  in  this,  the 
Lord's  appointed  way,  has  kept  pure  and  clean  by  the  covenants 
which  he  makes  that  he  will  be  true  to  his  wife,  and  he  has  stood  in  the 
hour  of  temptation  many  a  time  and  resisted  it  because  of  the  ob- 
ligation which  is  upon  him.  Is  that  not  a  strength  to  the  boy  as  well 
as  a  protection  to  the  woman?  For  I  want  to  tell  you  that  no  hap- 
piness can  come  to  men  or  women  where  confidence  is  gone,  and 
where  there  is  not  absolute  trust  in  one's  companion. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD  169 

NO  DOUBLE  STANDARD  WITH  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 

Oh,  thank  the  Lord  that  in  this  Church  we  have  no  double  stand- 
ard. We  have  heard  it,  I  have,  from  my  childhood.  I  received  from 
my  mother  and  from,  the  organizations  of  the  Church  this  admoni- 
tion. She  taught  me  to  live  as  clean  and  as  chaste  anck,  as  pure  as  the 
girl  I  married  and  asked  to  be  my  wife,  the  mother  of  my  children. 
She  taught  me  that  she  would  rather  hear  of  my  death  than  that  I 
had  been  immoral  and, had  debauched  myself.  Thank  God  for  thai 
advice,  and  that  I  had  the  courage  and  the  strength  to  keep  it  and  to 
live  up  to  it. 

So,  by  reason  of  this  provision,  there  is  safety  and  protection  and 
happiness  to  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  that  cannot  come  when 
they  go  out  of  their  faith  and  mingle  and  associate  in  these  relations 
with  those  who  have  entered  into  no  such  covenant  and  have  lived 
no  such  life  as  this.  And  yet  I  do  not  wish  to  imply  for  a  moment 
that  there  are  not  those  who  are  clean,  who  are  chaste  and  who  are 
pure,  who  live  in  the  world;  I  do  not  imply  that  at  all,  but  I  do  say 
that  here  are  the  institutions  and  organizations  that  require  such  a 
iife  of  Latter-day  Saint  boys  and  girls. 

THE  EVILS  OF  DIVORCE  AND  CHILDLESS  MARRIAGES. 

One  of  the  great  sources  which  brings  sorrow  and  trouble  in  the 
marriage  state  and  that  is  distressing  this  country  is  the  divorce  evil. 
I  notice  that  at  a  great  gathering  of  women  recently,  in  Washing- 
ton, this  problem  was  discussed  and  it  was  suggested  that  the  women's 
vote  must  come  forward  to  save  America  or  else  we  shall  be  on  the 
highway  to  moral  degeneracy,  because  the  divorce  rate  in  this  coun- 
try has  been  mounting  until  it  is  announced  that  we  now  excel  Japan 
in  the  number  of  divorces  in  this  country  and  Japan  has  been 
leading  the  world.  What  is  the  answer  to  it?  I  thought,  as  I  heard 
Dr.  Holden  yesterday,  there  is  no  problem  that  now  distresses  the 
world,  of  a  moral  character,  of  a  financial  character,  of  a  social 
nature,  except  the  key  to  solve  it  is  in  the  hands  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  even  as  the  Lord  said  he  would  make  his  people  a  light  unto 
the  world.  We  Lave  just  begun  to  solve  these  problems;  we  are  go- 
ing to  go  forward,  and  w,e  will  solve  that  problem  also.  The  great 
contributing  cause  to  divorces  in  this  country  are  childless  marriages, 
wherein  men  and  women  live  to  themselves  the  selfish  life  and  pan- 
der to  make  these  glorious  bodies,  with  their  divine  endowment, 
mere  harps  of  pleasure,  and  they  will  reap  disgust,  discomfiture, 
and  condemnation,  when  they  come  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  Him 
who  gave  to  man  as  his  first  great  commandment,  "Multiply  and 
replenish  the  earth." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  boys  and  girls  who  enter  into  marriage 
in  the  Latter-day  Saints  Church,  in  the  Lord's  approved  way,  enter 
in  properly  instructed,  and  if  they  live  up  to  their  obligations  to  one 


170  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

another  they  will  keep,  by  all  the  power  God  has  given  them,  that 
great  and  holy  commandment,  and  reap  for  themselves  joy,  peace, 
happiness  and  blessings,  in  this  life,  and  blessings  of  an  eternal  char- 
acter in  the  world  to  come. 

THE   LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ARE    NOT   TO   BE  ABSORBED. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  not  to  be  absorbed.  The  Lord  has 
decreed  it.  He  knows  how  to  keep  us  where  we  ought  to  be,  and 
when  we  get  straying  off  the  track  he  knows  how  to  bring  us  back, 
for  he  will  not  desert  this  people.  His  promise  was  that  this  work 
should  never  be  overcome  nor  given  to  another  people.  He  may 
chastise  us,  he  may  correct  us,  but  he  will  not  let  us  go  astray.  If  we, 
therefore,  keep  his  commandments,  we  not  only  shall  escape  chastise- 
ment, but  we  shall  come  into  our  glorious  heritage,  and  the  light  of 
Zion  shall  continue  to  rise,  for  behold,  her  day  has  come,  her  light  shall 
shine,  the  glory  of  it  shall  be  reflected  to  the  uttermost  ends  of  the 
earth,  and  the  men  of  all  nations  shall  come  and  say,  "Let  us  go  up 
to  the  mountain  of  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob,  so  that  we  may 
learn  to  walk  in  his;  paths,"  and  the  attention  of  the  angels  of  heaven 
shall  be  called  to  the  earth,  and  unto  this  people ;  and  behold,  the 
King  shall  come  and  he  shall  receive  his  people  and  reign  with  them 
a  thousand  years. 

God  speed  that  day,  for  Zion's  future  is  as  sure  as  the  sun  shines, 
if  we  will  only  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  ajnd  all  these 
glorious  things  shall  come  to  pass.  May  the  Lord  find  us.  and  our 
children,  and  children's  children,  identified  with  this  glorious  work  in 
the  day  of  its  triumph,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

A  solo  entitled,  "O  Lord,  remember  me,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  Ruth 
Brewerton. 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have  been  very  greatly  impressed  with 
what  has  been  said  from  this  stand  during  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference, and  I  believe,  with  all  my  heart,  that  youi  and  I  will  go  to  our 
homes  with  a  resolution  in  our  hearts  to  live  nearer  to  God  than  we 
have  ever  done  before.  This  is  the  desire  of  my  heart,  and  I  trust 
that  we  will  be  able  to  retain,  to  a  very  marked  extent,  the  greac 
spiritual  feast  that  we  have  enjoyed  during  the  last  three  or  four 
days. 

Yesterday  afternoon  when  some  of  the  brethren  were  speaking 
of  the  pioneers  to  this  state,  certain  thoughts  came  to  me,  and  I  too 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  171 

was  impressed  with  a  greater  realization  of  the  fact  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  always  placed  their  faith  in  God  and  in  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world.  With  the  faith  in  God,  in  Christ 
Jesus  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  they  have  approached  their  daily  lives, 
and  their  lives  through  all  the  years,  and  they  have  retained  that  im- 
plicit faith  to  this  day.  If  there  is  anything  in  the  world  that  is 
needed  at  this  hour  the  world  over,  it  is  the  simple  faith  in  God  and  in 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

Not  long  ago  I  walked  into  a  school  room  in  southern  Utah,  and 
while  sitting  listening  to  a  recitation  in  western  history,  the  school 
teacher  of  that  grade  made  this  remark  to  the  boys  and  girls  of  the 
sixth  grade:  "The  'Mormon'  pioneers  who  came  to  these  valleys  be- 
fore the  railroad  were  a  good  people,  but  they  were  uncultured  and 
unprogressive ;  we  are  thankful  that  the  generation  of  today  is  be- 
coming cultured  and  realizing  the  day  of  progress." 

"The  'Mormon'  pioneers  were  a  good  people  but  uncultured  and 
unprogressive" — that  to  come  from  a  person  who  posed  before  those 
children  as  one  who  knew  something  about  the  history  of  America 
and  the  western  part  of  this  continent.  I  want  to  go  on  record  here, 
holding,  as  I  do,  the  Chair  of  Western  History,  at  the  University  of 
Utah,  and  say  that  a  finer  type  of  people  never  lived  than  the  "Mor- 
mon" pioneers  who  settled  these  valleys  of  Utah,  and  they  were  a 
cultured  and  progressive  people ;  I  sometimes  think  they  were  more 
cultured  and  progressive  than  we.  are  today,  but  this  is  not  true,  if 
the  generation  of  today  is  realizing  the  great  power  and  light  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  ' 

The  "Mormon"  people  were  brought  from  different  nations  of 
the  earth.  They  became  convinced  in  those  very  early  days  of  the 
truthfulness  of  the  gospel  by  the  revelation  of  God  to  them  individ- 
ually. They  became  an  inspired  people.  God  never  called  upon 
cowards  to  do  work  for  him,  but  he  has  given  the  work  invariably  to 
high  types  of  people,  high  minded  people,  a  highly  spiritual  people. 
You  Scandinavians  that  have  come  from  the  Scandinavian  countries, 
you  English,  you  Germans,  and  all  who  have  come  from  the  different 
nations  of  Europe,  did  not  accept  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  because 
of  your  ignorance.  You  accepted  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  because 
of  your  intelligence,  your  high  mindedness ;  and  though  you  were 
poor  in  worldly  goods  in  your  native  lands,  you  were  rich  in  spiritual 
endowments.  The  peoples  of  the  world  that  have  been  gathered  to 
these  valleys  from  the  nations  of  Europe  are  the  highest  types  of 
those  nations,  because  of  the  fact  it  takes  a  high  type  of  man  or 
woman  to  understand  this  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  to  obtain  a  testi- 
mony of  its  truth. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  came  to  these  valleys  but  a  few  years  after 
the  organization  of  the  Church  by  a  few  men  who  were  not  edu- 
cated in  the  sense  that  they  had  been  to  the  great  schools  of  America, 
but  they  were  educated  in  the  greater  laws  of  righteousness,  men  who 


172  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

had  communed  with  God,  men  who  had  opened  their  souls  to  the  light 
of  heaven.    Those  men  assembled,  and  by  the  gift  and  the  power  of 
God,  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Then 
began  their  historic  march  from  the  Atlantic  seaboard  to  the  far  West, 
to  these  mountains,  and  wherever  they  went,  the   Latter-day  Saints 
were   first  imbued  with   the   wonderful   testimony   that   they   had   to 
bear  to  the  world,  namely,  that  God  had  spoken  from  the  heavens. 
Could  there  be  any  greater  ideal  for;  which  to  work?    With  that  ideal 
they  came  into  the  far  west,  they  developed  the  lands ;  they  were  a 
progressive  people.    In  1840,,  at  the  time  of  the  invention  of  the  mod- 
ern farming  implements,  the  modern  plow,  the  modem  threshing  ma- 
chine,  mowing  machine   and    sewing   machine,   they   took   those   ma- 
chines,  and   adapted  them  to   their  work,   to  their   daily   lives;   they 
brought  those  inventions  to  the  valleys  of  Utah,  and  used  them  in  de- 
veloping the  soil.     But  not  only  were  they  progressive  from  an  econ- 
omic viewpoint,   but   those    " Mormon" t  pioneers    thought   tfirst    and 
foremost  of  the  intellectual  and  spiritual  development.     In  a  study 
of  seventy-two  towns  in  the  history  of  the  Great  Basin,  we  have  found 
that  invariably  the  "Mormon"  pioneers,  wherever  they  went,  not  only 
built  their  cabins  but  they  built  their  school  and  meeting  houses;  they 
had  their  teachers,  and  the  first  school  in  Utah  was  opened  less  than 
three  months  after  the  advent  of  the  pioneers  to  this  valley.     In  1850, 
by  an  act  of  the  first  legislative  assembly  of  the  State  of  Deseret,  the 
first  university  west  of  the  Missouri  river  was  inaugurated;  the  fac- 
ulty in  the  year  1850  was  organized,  and  that  university  still  lives  on 
the  hill  that  in  1850  was  picked  out  by  Governor  Brigham  Young  and 
the  legislature  for  a  higher  institution  of  learning.     I  know  the  criti- 
cism has  been  given  that  it  was  not  a  real  university.     It  was  a  real 
university  for  that  day,  for  we  recall  the  fact  that  in  1845  to  1850. 
Harvard,  Columbia  and  Yale  universities  were  only  high  schools ;  in 
fact  their  curricula  would  not  equal  the  curricula  of  the  high  schools 
of  America  today.     The   ideal   of   university  training   was   indelibly 
stamped  on  the  hearts  of  those  pioneers.    They  developed  the  schools. 
They  had  their  different  educational  organizations,  their  philosophi- 
cal societies — Wilford  Woodruff  was  the  president  of  the  Scientific 
Society,  here  in  Salt  Lake  City.     They  held  meetings,  and  had  their 
various  meetings  of  the  priesthood  for  intellectual  training.     Finally 
the  different  auxiliary  organizations  were  formed,  and  the  youth  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  invited  to  attend  the  meetings  of  those  organ- 
izations. 

When  you  come  to  study  this  great  educational  movement  in  the 
Great  Basin,  you  will  find  that  the  "Mormon"  people  fostered  every 
factor  possible  for  the  development  of  the  youth.  They  built  a  theatre 
in  the  wilderness,  and  the  sole  purpose  was  that  the  people  might  have 
amusements  of  the  proper  kind.  After  they  built  this  theatre  in  the 
wilderness,  the  master  of  the  English  language,  Shakespeare,  was 
studied,  his  plays  were  produced,  and  I  remember  not  long  ago  of 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG  173 

having  the  opportunity  of  taking  Sir  Johnston  Forbes  Robertson 
into  the  old  Social  Hall  here,  now  called  the  "Little  Theatre;"  we 
walked  in  there  three  or  four  years  ago  during  a  very  stormy  day, 
and  as  we  went  down  the  aisle,  that  greatest  actor  of  all  English 
speaking  people  looked  above  the  stage  and  saw  the  bust  of  Shake- 
speare. He  took  off  his  hat  and  said,  "That  tells  the  story  as  to 
whether  or  not  your  pioneers  appreciated  art  and  the  finer  things  of 
life." 

True,  those  pioneers  did  not  have  what  we  have  today,  and  I 
know  that  Professor  Holden,  when  he  stood  on  this  stand  yesterday 
and  spoke  to  us,  realized  the  fact  they  were  essentially  agricultur- 
ists. They  had  to  get  down  to  the  soil  and  conquer  it  to  lay  the 
foundation  for  the  institutions  of  today;  but  in  conquering  the  soil, 
they  loved  it  and  realized  more  than  any  other  people  that  agriculture 
is  the  basis  of  our  whole  civilized  life.  Many  were  the  times  when 
the  farmer  plowed,  planted  his  seed,  and  went  forth  to  water  the  dry 
land,  some  weeks  later,  but  there  was  no  water.  Many  were  the 
times  that  the  pioneer  farmer  saw  his  wheat  field  dry  up.  Many'  were 
the  times  he  went  forth  to  harvest  but  'there  was  no<  harvest.  And 
yet  he  did  not  move  to  another  clime.  His  prophet  had  said,  "This 
is  the  place,"  and  in  those  words  he  had  faith  and  his  faith  sustained 
him.  There  was  an  altruism  developed  among  those  pioneers  that  we 
do  not  find  today — a  right  altruism,  a  real  spirit  of  co-operation.  The 
altruism,  the  love  of  neighbor,  which  is  fundamental  to  the  love  of 
God,  has  never  been  surpassed  since  that  day,  if  it  has  been  equaled. 

Each  town  of  early-day  Utah  was  an  ecclesiastical  unit,  with  so- 
cial and  political  tendencies.  The  ecclesiastical  unit  was  based  on  the 
idea,  of  individual  power  and  self-development  through  religious  prin- 
ciples. Each  individual  was  responsible  in  this  religious  scheme  to  his 
God;  each  was  independent  to  grow  intellectually  and  morally  in  the 
sense  that  man  is  in  the  image  of  God.  It  is  necessary  to  say  this 
in  order  that  we  may  understand  the  democracy  of  the  town  govern- 
ment of  early-day  Utah.  Politically  and  socially,  all  rights  were  in- 
herent in  the  people. 

The  power  that  held  the  people  together  was  the  religious  feel- 
ing; and  with  this  the  economic  interests  common  to  all.  In  these 
social  groups,  the  desire  was  to  live  and  let  live.  The  people  were  in- 
tensely practical ;  the  physical  conditions  of  he  country  made  them 
so.  They  were  compelled  to  apply  their1  religious  idealism  to  the 
immediate  problems  in  hand. 

The  two  ideals  fundamental  in  traditional  American  thought  are 
the  ideal  of  individual  freedom  to  compete  unrestrictedly  for  the  re- 
sources of  the  country,  and  the  ideal  of  democracy,  where  the  gov- 
ernment is  for  all  the  people  and  by  all  the  people.  American  democ- 
racy has  always  been  based  on  free  lands.  Such  ideals  were  always 
present  in  the  colonizing  of  the  valleys  of  Utah.     But  we  must  not 


174  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

forget  that  the  "Mormon"  colonists  were  always  religious  in  their 
organization  in  form  as  well  as  in  purpose. 

I  am  glad  to  say  that  Dr.  Turner  of  Harvard  University  has  re- 
cently said  in  a  lecture  before  the  students  there :  "The  'Mormon' 
people,  in  the  far  west,  developed  the  finest  type  of  New  England 
town  government  that  was  ever  developed  outside  of  New  England." 
That  alone  stamps  the  "Mormon"  people  as  fine  types  of  Americans, 
and  when  they  came  here  they  plunged  into  the  wilderness  with  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States  as  their  fundamental  organic  law. 

Were  they  cultured?  Yes;  because  they  were  men  and  women 
of  ideals,  because  they  had  implicit  faith  in  God;  the  faith  that  is 
needed  in  the  world  today.  Where  they  cultured  ?  Yes ;  because 
those  "Mormon"  pioneers  planted  here,  I  believe  as  no  other  people 
planted  in  the  history  of  America,  the  five  great  institutions  of  all 
civilization ;  namely,  agriculture,  the  home,  the  church,  the  state,  and 
the  school ;  and  in  a  study  of  these  five  institutions  of  civilization 
will  you  find  the  splendid  history  of  the  "Mormon"  pioneers  who 
settled  here  in  those  early  days.  The  teacher  who  spoke  as  she  did, 
spoke  in  ignorance. 

I  pray  God  that  we  may  retain  that  old-fashioned,  implicit  faith 
in  God  that  our  fathers  and  mothers  had. 

This  is  what  has  been  writtern  about  those  pioneers  and  has  gone 
from  this  state  to  some  of  the  universities,  not  only  of  America  but 
the  world,  and  it  was  the  paragraph  that  closed  a  recent  lecture  at 
the  University  of  California : 

"Side  by  side  with  the  development  of  the  natural  resources  of  Utah,"  [our 
temporal  history]  "Utah  has  constantly  cultivated  those  things  that  make  for 
culture.  The  growth  of  the  Church  has  been  brought  about  by  the  virility  and 
vision  of  its  leaders,  and  it  has  been  a'ble  to  solve  the  new  problems  of  civiliza- 
tion. In  the  process  of  expansion  the  'Mormon'  people  have  won  distinction 
not  alone  in  industrial  enterprise,  but  in  the  fine  arts  as  well;  in  fact,  more 
than  in  the  fine  arts,  more  than  in  industry,  the  'Mormon'  people  have  won 
distinction  as  the  finest  type  of  religionists  living  today.  The  bond  of  sympathy 
between  the  practical  and  the  esthetic,  between  reality  and  vision,  between  the 
temporal  and  the  spiritual,  the  Latter-day  Saints  from  the  beginning  have  ever 
regarded  as  the  secret  of  present  strength  and  the  measure  of  enduring  achieve- 
ment." 

The  late  Judge  C.  C.  Goodwin  once  paid  the  following  tribute 
to  the  "Mormon"  pioneers  in  the  columns  of  the  Salt  Lake  Tribune : 

"It  is  good  to  see  the  Saints  bring  their  children  in  to  conference.  We 
wonder  if  many  of  them  stop  to  tell  their  children  the  beautiful  story  of  the 
evolution  that,  the  full  history  pictures,  since  the  day  that  the  first  weary 
company  came  down  the  eastern  mountains  and  halted  there. 

"That  was  Salt  Lake's  first  moving  picture ;  there  has  been  none  like  it 
since.  Contemplating  it,  the  temple,  the  hotels,  theaters,  churches,  hospitals, 
great  business  houses  and  stately  homes,  the  temples  to  religion,  to  learning,  to 
industry,  to  justice  and  mercy,  all  vanish  away;  the  roar  of  business  becomes 
still;  the  silence  which  the  desert  broods  comes  back;  gardens  vanish,  the  flow- 
ers all  fade;  there  is  nothing  as  now  seen  save  the  surrounding  mountains,  the 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  175 

lake  shimmering  in  the  distance,  the  sun  shining  from  above  and  the  desola- 
tion that  wrapped  all  this  region  round  like  a  burial  robe.  Even  the  branches 
on  the  few  stunted  trees  hung  drooping  like  funeral  plumes,  while  the  sough  of 
the  breeze  coming  down  from  the  hills,  or  up  from  the  lake,  was  as  mournful  as 
is  the  requiem  chanted  on  the  shores  of  the  Styx. 

"The  way  a  state  is  carved  out  of  a  wilderness  and  rounded  into  form  is  al- 
ways an  interesting  theme.  The  way  the  first  stakes  of  civilization  were  driven  in 
Utah  was  drarnatic  enough  to  be  set  to  words  for  the  stage.  In  their  penury  and 
distress  the  first  act  of  the  Utah  pioneers  was  to  sink  upon  the  earth ;  not  in 
prayer  for  help,  not  in  lamentation  and  despair,  but  in  glad  praise  service  in 
thanks  to  the  power  that  had  led  them  through  the  wastes  and  over  the  trans- 
fixed billions  of  the  everlasting  hills  to  a  place  of  rest. 

"Then  their  work  began.    They  were  not  dreaming  of  fortunes. 

"The  struggle  before  them  was  to  live  and  that  struggle  continued  almost 
without  abatement  to  the  end.  Often  only  the  barest  necessities  were  vouch- 
safed ;  few  comforts,  no  luxuries.  In  that  rough  friction  their  youth  was  worn 
away;  the  men  surrendered  their  ambitions,  the  women  folded  fond  dreams  and 
a  thousand  innocent  longings  in  their  hearts  and  drew  the  silence  of  self-sacrifice 
over  them  forever. 

"But  then  the  miracle  commenced.  The  desert  began  to  transfer  the  wrinkles 
and  sadness  from  its  somber  face  to  theirs,  while  in  turn  it  began  to  absorb  the 
splendor  of  their  youth,  and  to  cause  it  to  be  reflected  in  flowers  and  fruits  and 
golden  grain  and  vines  in  which  the  birds  made  their  nests  and  filled  all  the  soft 
air  with  their  songs. 

"Later  still,  as  though  touched  with  pity,  the  irresponsive  mountains  began 
to  swing  back  their  adamantine  doors,  revealing  the  treasures  within,  where  they 
had  remained  secreted,  waiting  until  the  time  should  be  ripe  for  the  coming  of 
progress  and  enlightenment.  The  overwearied  eyes  of  those  pioneers  have 
mostly  all  closed :  their  hands,  gnarled  by  labor,  are  nearly  all  folded,  but  the 
miracle  is  still  being  performed.  More  and  more  fields  are  annually  rescued  from 
the  desert;  more  and  more  flowers  are  blooming;  more  and  more  birds  are 
singing;  wider  and  wider  fields  grow  golden  under  the  harvest  sun,  recalling  the 
old  legend,  that  artist  angels,  in  the  long  ago,  came  here  from  Summerland  and 
with  divine  pencils,  dipped  in  the  dyes  where  light  is  brewed,  left  it  all  as  a 
frame  for  a  city  beautiful  which  man  was  to  build ;  we  may  believe  that  the 
building  of  that  city  has  been  begun  and  is  progressing  toward  perfection. 

"This  is  the  story  that  should  be  told  the  children  when  they  are  brought 
in  to  conference,  and  then  they  should  be  told  to  listen  and  note  if  they  cannot 
still  hear  the  echoes  of  that  first  praise  service,  with  which  the  fathers  dedicated 
this  soil  to  the  enlightenment  which  comes  through  devotion  to  duty,  through 
the  omnipotence  of  patient  labor,  and  through  faith  in   God." 

God  grand  that  we  may  see  these  great  things  in  our  history,  and 
that  the  truth  of  the  faith  and  the  development  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  their  great  message  may  yet  become  known  to  the  honest 
in  heart  and  to  all  the  world.  T  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

To  one  not  accustomed  to  occupying  this  position  and  one  whose 
mission  is  to  labor  in  helping  to  care  for  the  temporal  affairs  of 
the  Church,  this  is  indeed  a  task.  However,  I  rejoice  in  this  op- 
portunity that  I  have  to  address  you,   for   I   have  discovered   in   my 


176  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

short  ministry  that,  through  service  we  grow  best  and  develop  most. 
Never  in  my  life  have  I  felt  the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  me  more 
than  I  feel  it  at  this  time,  and  never  in  all  my  life  have  I  had  in  my 
heart  a  greater  desire  to  "keep  the  commandments"  than  I  have 
now. 

I  could  not  help  but  think  yesterday,  while  Bishop  Nibley  was 
addressing  us,  of  the  contrast  in  his  life  and  my  life.  The  seventh 
son,  thirteenth  child  in  order  of  birth,  a  comfortable  home,  a  mother 
whose  every  thought  was  for  the  welfare  of  her  children,  a  father 
whose  life  stands  out  as  a  shining  example  in  service,  a  grandfather 
whose  life  was  given  in  an  attempt  to  help  establish  this  work  upon 
earth. 

It  has-been  my  privilege  to  know  intimately  (if  it  can  be  said 
that  a  boy  through  having  the  opportunity  of  being  in  the  presence 
of  such  men  almost  constantly,  can  be  intimate),  four  presidents 
of  this  Church,  with  their  counselors;  I  have  seen  one  complete 
change  in  the  quorum  of  the  Twelve,  and  have  known  personally  all 
of  these  men.  Under  such  influences  and  conditions,  I  have  grown 
to  manhood,  and  when  called  to  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  if  I  had 
been  asked  what  my  equipment  was,  I  perhaps  would  have  answered 
that  it  had  been  my  privilege  to  hold  every  office  in  the  priesthood, 
from  that  of  deacon  to  high  priest ;  that  under  the  direction  of  good 
men,  faithful  and  true,  I  have  been  encouraged  to  function  in  each 
office.  It  has  been  my  privilege  to  labor  in  the  Sabbath  school,  as 
a  student,  as  a  teacher  in  the  class,  and  as  an  aid  in  the  stake  or- 
ganization. In  the  Mutual,  as  a  student,  as  a  class  leader,  as  an  of- 
ficer in  the  ward,  and  as  an  officer  in  the  stake.  What  a  wonder- 
ful blessing  has  come  to  me.  And  yet,  well  do  I  remember,  soon 
after  having  been  called  to  this  position,  being  sent  to  one  of  our 
stakes  with  a  message  to  deliver  to  the  bishops  of  that  stake,  upon 
going  into  the  room  where  they  had  assembled,  and  seeing  before 
me  men  whose  hair  was  gray,  or  turning  gray,  there  came  upon  me 
the  feeling  of  fear.  It  seemed  to  me  absurd,  for  me,  a  youth,  to 
stand  there  before  those  men  tried  in  the  service,  and  attempt  to 
instruct  them  in  their  duties.  My  first  thought  was  to  retire ;  how 
could  I  get  away  from  this  responsibility?  And  oh,  how  I  prayed 
that  God  would  bless  me  and  give  me  strength  equal  to  that  re- 
sponsibility. It  came,  but  not  with  words  of  logic,  not  with  the 
power  of  oratory  to  convince  them,  but,  as  I  attempted  to  form  my 
thoughts  in  words,  I  found,  as  I  uttered  them,  that  they  fell  upon 
ears_  long  trained  to  patience,  upon  hearts  that  breathed  forth  the 
spirit  of  charity,  upon  souls  that  had  faith  in  God  and  honored  his 
Priesthood.  I  went  from  that  meeting  with  a  new  vision,  a  new 
sight.  I  saw  the  bigness  of  the  work  in  an  entirely  new  light.  I 
found  that  this  equipment  which  I  thought  I  had  was  only  the 
foundation  upon  which  I  must  build,  and  I  made  a  survey  of  myself. 
Where  must  I  start  to  improve?     T   found  that  it  was  much  easier 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH  177 

for  me  to  tear  down,  much  easier  for  me  to  find  fault  and  to  criti- 
cize, than  it  was  to  build  up,  than  it  was  to  construct.  I  found 
that  it  took  no  effort  whatever  to  tear  down,  but  it  took  strength,  it 
took  courage,  it  took  the  power  of  will  to  build  up.  And  from  that 
day  to  this,  I  have  tried ;  God  knows  I  have  tried.  I  have  been 
encouraged  very  much  fromi  time  to  time  in  reading  the  scripture. 
One  passage  that  I  have  had  on  my  mind,  since  the  opening  remarks 
of  this  conference,  I  will  read,  and  perhaps  comment  upon.  And 
let  me  say  that  this  was  uttered  by  one  of  the  apostles  of  old,  and 
I  think  applies  in  this  day  with  the  same  force  that  it  did  at  thac 
time : 

"Wherefore,  laying  aside  all  malice,  and  all  guile,  and  hypocrisies,  and 
envies,  and  all  evil  speakings." 

And  I  hope  I  will  be  permitted  to  add  to  that  the  remarks  of  Pres- 
ident Penrose,  in  which  he  says  avoid  speculations,  for  in  this  Church 
there  is  no  need  for  speculations,  no  room  for  lying,  or  for  the  man 
who  indulges  in  it ;  there  is  no  place  for  malice  or  for  him  who  has 
malice  in  his  heart.  He  who  has  guile  cannot  live  properly  his  re- 
ligion, and  be  a  true  servant  of  God.  Hypocrites  are  undesirable 
and  cannot  become  useful  in  the  sight  of  God.  To  envy  is  to  take 
a  step  downward  and  lessen  our  power  to  do  good.  Evil  speaking  of 
our  brethren,  of  our  neighbors,  of  those  who  are  in  authority,  is  the 
first  step  to  apostasy. 

"As  newborn  babes,  desire  the  sincere  milk  ,of  the  word,  that  ye  may 
j;row  thereby: 

"If  so  be  ye  have  tasted  that  the  Low  is  gracious. 
"To  whom  coming,  as  unto  a  living  stone,  disallowed  indeed  of  men,  but 
chosen  of  God,  and  precious, 

"Ye  also,  as  lively  ston.es,  are  built  up  a  spiritual  house,  an  holy  priest- 
hood, to  offer  up  spiritual  sacrifices,  acceptable  to  God  by  Jesus  Christ. 

"Wherefore  also  it  is  contained  in  the  scripture,  Behold,  I  lay  in  Zion 
a  chief  corner  stone,  elect,  precious:  and  he  that  believeth  on  him  shall  no) 
be  confounded. 

"Unto  you  therefore  which  believe  he  is  precious;  but  unto  them  which 
be  disobedient,  the  stone  which  the  builders  disallowed,  the  same  is  made 
the  head  of  the  corner, 

"And  a  stone  of  stumbling,  and  a  rock  of  offense,  even  to  them  which 
stumble  at  the  word,  being  disobedient :  whereunto  also  they  were  ap- 
pointed. 

"But  ye  arc  a  chosen  generation  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation, 
i  peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  prais.es  of  him  who  hatfc 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvelous  light: 

I  repeat: 

"Ye  also,  as  lively  stones,  are  built  up  a  spiritual  house,  an  holy  priest- 
hood, to  offer  up  spiritual  sacrifices,  acceptable  to  God  by  Jesus  Christ. 

"Ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a  royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a 
peculiar  people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth  the  praises  of  him  who  hath 
called  you  out  of  darkness  into  his  marvelous  light." 

I  stand  before  you  at  this  time,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  with 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  a  living  testimony  to 
the  fulfilment  of  the  promise  of  God  to  his  servant,  Hyrum  Smith. 


178  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

My  greatest  desire,  and  my  fondest  hope  are  that,  I  shall  prove 
faithful  to  the  Priesthood  which  has  been  conferred  upon  me 
through  God's  servants,  that  I  shall  prove  to  these  men  who  hold  the 
fulness  of  that  Priesthood,  that  I  shall  prove  worthy  of  you,  my 
brethren,  and  my  sisters,  from,  whom  I  gain  so  much  strength,  that 
I  shall  prove  true  to  my  God,  to  whom  I  owe  all  that  I  have  and  my 
very  existence.  God  grant  that  when  I  shall  have  finished  my  work 
here  upon  earth,  he  can  say  of  me,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and 
faithful  servant,"  and  I  ask  it  through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  delighted  to  have  Elder  Golden  Kimball  here ;  he  has  been 
in  poor  health,  but  we  are  glad  that  he  is  able  to  be  with  us  at  this 
conference,  and  I  am  very  much  pleased  to  have  him  talk  to  us. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  1  have  been  hanging  on  the  hook  so 
long  during  this  conference  that  1  am  nearly  exhausted.  I  have  had 
some  wonderful  thoughts,  but  you  waited  so  long  they  have  nearly  all 
oozed  out  of  me. 

When  I  came  in  the  Tabernacle  yesterday  afternoon,  I  was  met 
by  one  of  my  old  missionary  friends.  He  said,  "Hello,  Golden,  I 
thought  you  were  dead."  Now,  I  want  to  notify  my  friends,  and  1 
have  some  good  friends — I  have  tested  them  out,  1  know — not  to 
worry  about  me;  that  when  I  am  dead — and  it  is  an  awful  job  to  get 
there,  I  have  found  that  out,  when  I  die,  I  have  made  arrangements 
for  a  brass  band.  I  like  the  idea  of  lots  of  noise  and  confusion, 
people  inquiring,  "Who  is  that?"  "Why,  Kimball's  dead."  Then  the 
people  won't  worry  any  more  about  me. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  attribute  my  partial  recovery,  and  I 
hope  I  will  continue  to  improve,  very  largely  to  the  kindness  and  sym- 
pathy of  my  brethren,  the  presidency  of  the  Church,  the  council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  to  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  other  friends. 
1  came  home  last  October  to  attend  conference  and  was  taken  sick, 
and  remained  at  my  home  nearly  two  months.  When  I  got  around 
and  thought  of  my  brethren  and  their  kindness  and  sympathy  for 
me,  I  want  to  tell  you,  brethren,  T  felt  this  was  a  mighty  good  world. 
1  have  repeated  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  times,  while  I  was  sick, 
the  words  of  Frohman  when  he  went  down  to  his  death.  He  said, 
"Why  fear  death?  It  is  the  most  beautiful  adventure  of  life."  I  want 
to  tell  Frohman  I  have  not  got  that  in  me  yet.  T  think  this  is  a  pretty 
good  world.  I  think  I  am  safer  here  among  my  brethren  who  know 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL  179 

me,  although  we  have  had  an  awfully  hard  time  getting  acquainted. 
Brethren,  I  have  learned  a  number  of  lessons.  I  have  had  several, 
to  me,  quite  serious  experiences.  I  remember  thirty-seven  years  ago 
I  was  secretary  for  Brother  Roberts  who  presided  over  the  Southern 
States  Mission.  After  I  had  traveled  for  a  year  without  purse  or 
scrip  and  had  tested  God  thoroughly,  I  found  the  Lord's  word  good. 
He  never  failed  me.  I  traveled  in  the  state  of  Virginia.  I  went  on 
one  trip  with  a  young  elder,  and  I  say  it  with  a  good  deal  of  pride, 
six  hundred  miles,  without  purse  and  without  scrip  and  without 
friends.  No  man  had  ever  heard  the  voice  of  a  "Mormon"  elder 
where  we  traveled.  We  left  a  trail  behind  us,  a  trail  that  other 
elders  have  traveled,  and  at  no  time  during  that  three  months  did 
I  sleep  outdoors,  but  I  came  mighty  near  it  a  lot  of  times.  I  thought 
the  Lord  surely  had  forsaken  us,  at  times,  but  when  it  came  to  the 
last  test,  someone's  heart  was  softened,  and  they  fed  us  and  they 
gave  us  a  bed  so  we  had  no  use  for  money. 

During  my  labors  in  Chattanooga  with  Brother  Roberts,  as  it 
was  in  the  early  history  of  that  city,  I  was  thoroughly  poisoned  with 
malaria.  I  was  drunken,  but  not  with  strong  drink,  but  with  malaria. 
1  was  as  yellow  as  a  parchment.  As  I  went  along  the  streets  one  day 
in  Chattanooga,  a  stranger  met  me.  He  happened  to  be  a  physician. 
He  said,  "Young  man,  I  don't  know  who  you  are,  but  if  you  don't 
do  something  for  yourself  you  will  die."  "Well,"  I  said,  "I  will  not, 
as  I'm  a  'Mormon,'  you  can't  kill  them."  When  Brother  Morgan 
came  down  and  relieved  Brother  Roberts,  I  was  still  in  the  office, 
looking  worse  than  ever.  Brother  Morgan  looked  me  over  carefully. 
He  said,  "Brother  Kimball,  you  better!  go  home.  The  mission  is 
very  hard  run  for  money.  It  will  only  cost  twenty-four  dollars  to 
send  you  home  alive,  but  it  will  cost  three  hundred  to  send  you  home 
dead."  It  was'  a  matter  of  business  in  that  office ;  they  had  no  money. 
I  think  maybe  that  was  all  I  was  worth.  "No,"  I  said,  "Brother  Mor- 
gan, I  don't  want  to  go  home.  I  believe  I  was  called  on  this  mis- 
sion by  revelation  ;  at  least  they  told  me  so  in  my  blessing.  Now  God 
has  been  good  to  me  and  he  has  been  faithful  and  true,"and  I  want 
to  test  him  out,  and  if  he  can't  take  care  of  me,  when  T  have  been 
as  faithful  and  true  as  I  have,  and  made  the  sacrifices  I  have,  then 
he  is  not  the  God  of  my  fathers."  So  Brother  Morgan  let  me  stay, 
and  I  filled  my  mission.  I  have  my  release.  It  is  the  only  release  I 
have  ever  had,  and  I  prize  it  very  much.  When  I  was  released  he 
said,  "Brother  Kimball,  now  you'd  better  go  right  straight  home." 
I  said,  "Brother  Morgan,  I  can't.  My  mother  suffered  the  pain  of 
death  to  give  me  life.  She  has  watched  over  me  from  my  childhood 
to  manhood,  and  she  loves  her  people.  She  heard  Brother  Jedediah 
M.  Grant,  President  Grant's  father,  preach  in  Philadelphia,  when  she 
was  a  girl  twenty  years  old.  She  heard  only  the  one  discourse,  and 
she  embraced  the  gospel,  and  she  took  the  Church  works  and  'went 
(o  her  people,  a  good  people,  an  honest  people,  a  wonderful  people 


180  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

she  had,  but  they  all  rejected  it,  and  she  had  to  leave,  and  it  broke  her 
mother's  heart.  She  went  back  to  Philadelphia,  and  in  company  with 
President  Jedediah  M.  Grant  and  his  wife  traveled  by  teami  to  Nau- 
voo  and  married  my  father,  and  that  is  how  I  happen  to  be  here  to- 
day. My  mother  watched  me  grow  to  manhood.  You  know  the  one 
great  vision  and  dream  she  had?  It  was  that  her  son,  her  eldest  son, 
should  grow  to  manhood  and  go  back  to  her  people  and  let  them  see 
what  'Mormonism'  had  done."  And  I  went,  and  God  kept  me  alive, 
and  I  visited  them  for  five  weeks,  and  I  preached  in  their  church,  and 
my  mother's  relatives  told  their  old  minister,  who  had  preached  there 
for  thirty  years,  that  unless  he  let  Christine  Golden's  son  preach, 
they  would  leave  his  church.  So  I  got  to  preach.  He  was  a  clever 
old  fellow,  too.  I  thought  I  would  ease  up  on  him  a  little  and  get 
another  chance.  So  I  preached  in  his  splendid  church  building,  and 
when  I  got  through  he  said  to  his  people,  "This  man  has  told  the 
truth.  I  have  preached  it  to  you  for  thirty  years."  Well,  I  said, 
"I'll  fix  you  the  next  time,"  but  I  never  got  another  chance.  At 
any  rate,  while  I  was  there  I  secured  the  names  of  over  one  hundred 
and  fifty  of  my  mother's  people,  and  I  brought  them  back  to  her, 
and  her  dream  was  fulfilled ;  and  in  the  winter  of  1834  my  brother 
Elias  and  I  accompanied  our  mother,  and  we  did  the  temple  work 
for  the  Golden  family,  and  I  am  still  alive. 

Brethren,  I  have  had  a  pretty  lonely  time.  I  have  had  a  pretty 
hard  struggle.  I  haven't  suffered  much  pain.  I  have  got  a  pretty 
good  brain,  but  it  has  not  been  big  enough  to  handle  my  body;  I  have 
tried  to  direct  and  control  my  body,  but  it  wouldn't  obey.  I  have 
been  administered  to  by  some  of  the  best  men  in  this  Church ;  no 
better  men  ever  lived  than  the  men  who  have  administered  to  me, 
but  I  am  sorry  to  say,  and  ashamed  to  say,  I  did  not  have  the  faith 
to  be  healed.  There  is  not  a  man  in  this  Church  who  knows  any  bet- 
ter than  I  do  that  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ  the  Redeemer  are 
the  great  physicians.  I  have  unfaltering,  unwavering  faith  in  God 
the  Father  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  but  you  cannot  be  healed 
without  faith ;  you  have  got  to  have  the  faith.  I  have  got  the  gift 
to  heal  others.  I  have  seen  wonderful  healings.  Few  men  have  seen 
more,  unless  they  were  better  men.  I  have  witnessed  all  kinds  of 
diseases  healed,  but  I  could  not  get  the  faith,  I  failed.  I  just  had 
enough  faith  to  keep  alive,  that  is  all.  I  talked  with  President  Grant, 
and  I  thought  climate  would  help  me ;  I  was  a  little  short  on  faith, 
so  I  tried  climate  for  nine  months.  As  I  told  you,  I  came  back  last 
October  sick,  and  I  went  back  again  and  tried  climate  again.  Now 
I  am  on  my  feet.  I  went  to  a  specialist;  I  have  had  an  X-ray  taken 
of  my  lungs ;  I  was  scared  to  death  he  would  find  something,  but  I 
thought  I  would  test  him  out.  My  family  wanted  vto  know  what  was 
the  matter.  Well,  I  found  one  of  my  batteries  somewhat  damaged, 
that  is,  they  told  me  so.  Then  he  shot  me  full  of  serumi  and  full  of 
iron  and  strychnia,  at  five  dollars  a  shot.     That  pretty  near  broke  my 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL  181 

heart  when  I  got  through  with  that  specialist.  I  did  not  want  to 
go  to  him,  but  to  please  my  family  I  went.  They  are  very  anxious 
for  me  to  live,  for  some  reason.  I  hardly  know  what  it  is.  I  have 
been  awfully  neglectful  of  them.  My  family  has  been  secondary 
in  my  work.  I  hope  the  brethren  will  be  awfully  careful  what  they 
Fay  about  families.  I  hope  they  will  be  very  tender  of  men's  feelings, 
when  they  talk  about  our  children  and  about  parents  being  responsi- 
He  for  their  children — that  their  sins  will  rest  upon  them.  God 
knows,  I  have  got  all  I  can  carry  without  packing  anyone  else.  Now 
you  want  to  be  awfully  careful  and  awfully  tender  of  those  things, 
because  in  the  wisdom  of  God  he  will  gather  our  children  together. 
They  are  God's  children.  My  children  are  God's  children.  God  is 
just  as  much  responsible  for  my  children  as  I  am. 

•  Now,  brethren,  I  want  to  say  to  you — I  do  not  know  whether 
you  know  it  or  not — there  is  a  lot  of  things  you  do  not  know  that,  you 
ought  to  be  told — if  there  are  any  people  who  are  neglected  in  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  it  is  the  families  of  the  leaders  of  the  Church. 
They  go  out  and  tell,  you  how  to  take  care  of  your  families,  and  they 
are  away  from  home  and  their  families  take;  care  of  themselves.  You 
want  to  be  careful. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  when  I  am  satisfied,  everybody  is  satisfied. 
I  can  see  a  hole  in  a  doughnut.  I  have-  always  grieved  over  a  dough- 
nut. My  mother  was  a  doughnut  maker.  When  she  showed  me 
those  doughnuts,  I  grieved  over  the  hole.  Some  of  the  people  say 
there  is  no  hole  in  a  doughnut,  but  I  never  could  agree  with  them.  I 
always  see  the  hole  and  forget  about  the  doughnut.  I  think  we  have 
some  faults  and  some  failings.  I  have  been  worried  a  little.  While 
I  have  been  absent  I  was  afraid  that  we  might  get  too  material.  I 
have  been  a  little  afraid  for  God's  people  and  myself,  afraid  that  we 
would  trust  too  much  in  money  and  forget  God,  and  I  came  to  this 
conference  hungry,  hungry  for  the  word  of  God.  While  in  San 
Francisco  I  attended  the  Latter-day  Saint  Church  on  Sundays,  I  took 
part  in  the  worship  of  the  people.  I  have  watched  those  young  elders 
carefully,  for  over  a  year,  off  and  on,  and  have  seen  them  develop 
and  grow  and  become  men.  But  I  was  hungry  for  the  word  of  God, 
and  I  have  come  back  to  my  people.  I  think  of  the  words  of  Ruth. 
I  never  quoted  them  before ;  maybe  I  cannot  now,  but  she  said : 

"Whither  thou  goest,  I  will  go;  and  where  thou  lodgest,  I  will  lodge;  thy 
people  shall  be  my  people,  and  thy  God  my  God: 

"Where  thou  diest,  will  I  die,  and  there  will  I  be  buried." 

That  expresses  my  feelings.     God  save  the  people. 

I  never  felt  better,  I  never  felt  surer,  in  all  of  my  ministry  for 
over  twenty-eight  years  in  this  Church,  that  we  are  God's  people, 
that  God  is  sustaining  President  Grant  as  prophet,  seer  and  revelator. 
He  is  sustaining  his  counselors  and  the  twelve  apostles. 


182  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

By  the  way,  in  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  admonish  you  people 
not  to  pray  only  for  the  Presidency  and,  the  Twelve,  but  once  in  a 
while  pray  for  the  First  Council.  I  don't  know  of  any  other  council 
that  needs  it  worse.  We  need  your  help,  we  need  your  assistance,  we 
need  your  faith  to  prepare  that  great  body  of  priesthood  to  fulfil 
their  appointment  in  this  Church.  I  know  as  well  as  I  know  that  is 
my  right  hand,  if  you  will  call  that  body  of  priesthood  to  the  foreign 
ministry  they  will  go,  but  we  have  advised  them  not  to  go  until  you 
call  them,  and  I  have  told  them  hundreds  of  times,  not  to  go  until 
they  were  sent.  If  you  will  call  them  and  get  behind'  them,  I  promise 
you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  they  will  go.  I  know.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

The  congregation  sang,  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 
The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay, 
President  of  the  Ogden  stake  of  Zion. 


CLOSING  SESSION 

Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock.     President  Heber  J.  Grant  pre- 
sided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day 
of  salvation." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Lemuel  H.  Redd,  President  of  the 
San  Juan  stake  of  Zion. 

.    A  sacred  solo,  "Fear  not  ye,  O  Israel,"  was  sung  by  Margaret 
Merrill. 


ELDER  HYRUM   G.  SMITH 

{Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church) 

1  am  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  privilege  of  be- 
ing in  this  gathering  today,  and  for  having  the  privilege  of  standing 
and  bearing  my  testimony  to  the  goodness  of  the  Lord  unto  me,  as 
one  of  the  younger  sons  of  Zion,  in  these  the  last  days,  arid  one  of 
the  younger  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

I  have  recently  had  a  privilege  which  I  have  dreamed  of  ever 
since  early  boyhood — the  privilege  of  going  over  at  least  some  of  the 
ground,  visiting  some  of  the  places  visited  by  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  and  by  the  early  members  of  the  Church.    Through  my  teach- 


ELDER  II Y  RUM  C.  SMITH  183 

ings,  from  my  infancy,  I  have  never  doubted  in  the  least  the  divinity 
of  the  mission  of  the  prophet  Joseph,  but  1  have  often  desired  to  visit 
some  of  the  early  points  of  history,  and  just  recently  that  privilege 
was  granted  me.  From  that  historic  town  of  Palmyra,  New  York,  I 
visited  the  house  or  place  in  which  the  first  edition  of  the  Hook  of 
Mormon  was  published.  1  also  visited  the  old  bank  at  Palmyra;  I  do 
not  know  how  long  it  has  been  used  as  a  bank,  but  it  looks  as  if  it 
had  been  used  for  many  years.  It  is  today  being  occupied,  and  bus- 
iness is  being  conducted  very  much,  I  suppose,  as  it  was  nearly  a 
hundred  years  ago,  without  any  of  the  so-called  modern  improve- 
ments. At  that  bank  I  was  permitted  to  view  what  is  claimed  to 
be  a  copy  of  the  first  edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  or  the  print- 
er's copy.  In  that  little  town,  I  also  noticed  four  distinct  churches,  all 
facing  one  another,  one  upon  each  of  the  four  opposite  corners  of 
an  intersection  of  two  streets ;  and  from  residents  there  I  learned 
that  those  churches  still  maintain  their  names  and  their  practices,  op- 
posing one  another,  of  course,  until  they  all  unite  to  oppose  the  "Mor- 
mons"— a  very  impressive  lesson  in  Church  history  to  me,  because 
I  had  always  believed,  and  believe  today,  the  testimony  of  Joseph, 
the  prophet,  that  he  went  to  those  churches  and  saw  their  contentions 
in  his  day,  when  he  was  a  boy.  He  heard  them  crying',  "Lo,  here  is 
Christ,"  "Lo,  there  is  Christ,"  "Come  into  this  church,  for  this  is  the 
right  church,"  and  he  wondered  how  all  four  of  those  churches,  and 
others  perhaps,  could  be  the  right  church  when  they  were  all  claiming 
it  and  claiming  it  differently.  And  so,  I  could  not  help  but  think  how 
natural  it  would  be  for  him  to  go  back  to  his  home,  only  five  miles 
distance,  and  wonder  in  his  own  heart  where  he  could  find  the  truth, 
and,  with  the  earnestness  of  his  soul,  he  sought  refuge  in  the  scrip- 
ture, as  it  had  been  taught  to  him. 

I  was  also  permitted  to  go  into  that  sacred  grove  where  the  boy 
sought  an  answer  to  his  prayer,  and  I  instinctively  felt  the  very 
spirit  that  one  would  naturally  suppose  would  be  in  that  place  from 
its  sacred  history,  and  the  entire  time  that  I  was  in  the  grove  I  felt  the 
very  presence  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord.  It  seemed  to  me  to  have  a 
care  for  everything  about  the  grove.  1  also  had  the  privilege  of  g'o- 
ing  into  the  old  jail  where  the  prophet  and  his  brother,  my  great- 
grandfather, gave  their  lives  in  testimony  of  this  great  principle  and 
the  power  of  the  everlasting  gospel.  I  also  visited  that  city  beautiful, 
Nauvoo,  which  today  is  only  a  very  small  place,  but  I  could  imagine 
the  love  that  those  Saints  must  have  had  for  that  place  when  they 
could  look  toward  the  highest  point  from  all  the  surroundings  and 
admire  the  workmanship  of  their  hands  as  was  manifest  in  the  tem- 
ple which  they  had  erected  to  their  God,  equidistant  in  three  direc- 
tions from  the  river  on  a  general  slope.  The  river,  the  great  Mis- 
sissippi river,  surrounded  it  in  a  sort  of  letter  "D"  equidistant  from 
the  temple  on  three  sides,  (north,  west  and  south).  Today  those 
landmarks  are  fast  passing  back  to  their  mother  earth ;  and  I  was  im- 


184  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

pressed  with  the  thought  that  in  a  very  few  years  to  come,  very  little 
but  history  and  perhaps  the  photographs  and  paintings  of  these  be- 
loved homes  will  be  about  all  that  will  be  left.  There  is  no  mark  to- 
day of  the  temple,  except  a  few  of  the  stones  that  were  once  in  the 
walls,  and  a  little  part  of)  an  old  barrel  that  marks  the  place  of  a  well 
from  which  the  water  was  taken  to  supply  the  temple.  Very  few 
marks  of  that  wonderful  history  are  left  today.  A  city  where  once 
was  housed  and  homed  twenty  thousand  Latter-day  Saints,  today 
only  about  fourteen  hundred  people  make  their  homes. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  privileges  that  I  have  enjoyed  and  for  the 
testimonies  that  I  have  received;  and  the  experiences  through  which 
I  have  passed  only  make  me  more  determined  in  my  efforts  to  serve 
the  Lord.;  As  it  has  been  said  in  this  Conference,  this  is  the  work  of 
the  Lord,  and  I  pray  that  God  will  bless  his  people  and  bless  me  as 
one  individual  member,  that  we  altogether  may  go  on!  serving  him  and 
accomplishing  the  great  work  which  he  gave  to  the  prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  associates  when  this  Church  was  organized  ninety-one 
years  ago  today.  I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  so  live  that  I 
may  merit  the  blessings,  and  carry  the  responsibility  that  is  desired  of 
me  from  my  Father  in  heaven,  and  from  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  who 
is  at  the  head  of  this  great  work. 

I  desire  also  to  leave  one  word  of  admonition  beside  a  word  of 
blessing.  It  is  natural  for  many  of  us  to  follow  extremes,  or  to  look 
for  extremes.  There  is  always  danger  in  extremes.  Therefore,  I 
say,  beware  of  extremes,  beware  of  extremes.  I  think  that  nearly 
all  of  us  can  apply  this  principle  in  our  lives.  I  should  like  to  apply 
it  as  it  appeals  to  me,  as  one  of  the  officers  of  the  Church,  in  a  parti- 
cular direction.  There  are  many  in  the  Church  who  never  get  a 
written  blessing  for  their  guide  or  their  comfort.  This  is  an  extreme. 
It  is  the  privilege  and  right  of  every  faithful  member  in  the  Church 
to  receive  a  written  blessing,  for  his  guide  and  his  comfort,  at  the 
hands  of  certain  officers  in  the  Church,  and  there  is  little  or  no  ex- 
cuse for  anyone  going  without  this  privilege.  On  the  other  hand  there 
are  others  who  get  a  multitude  of  written  blessings,  and  I  have  dis- 
covered that  some  have  even  lost  regard  for,  or  faith  in,  their  bless- 
ings, because  they  have  received  conflicting  blessings.  They  have 
received  a  multitude  or  many,  and  they  have  discovered  a  conflict. 
Therefore,  their  faith  is  lost,  or  they  are  discouraged,  and  they  lose 
regard  for  their  blessings.  Therefore,  I  say  again,  beware  of  ex- 
tremes. 

Now,  to  make  myself  plain,  it  is  the  right  of  every  faithful  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  to  receive  a  written  blessing  for  his  guide,  either 
at  the  hands  of  a  stake  patriarch  or  at  the  hands  of  the  presiding 
patriarch,  who  are  authorized  to  pronounce  and  seal  blessings  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands,  which  is  an  ordinance  in  the  Church.  Now  I 
believe  that  the  Lord  knew  what  he  meant  when  he  required,  through 
revelation,  that  these  blessings  should  be  written  for  the  purpose  of 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH  185 

refreshing  our  memory  and  aiding  us  to  put  them  into  practice  rather 
than  going  back  at  every  opportunity  or  every  few  months  or  weeks 
or  so,  to  get  another  blessing.  I  have  thought,  and  have  been  im- 
pressed, that  this  was  one  of  the  great  reasons  why  the  Lord  required 
us  to  make  a  record  of  all  of  the  patriarchal  blessings  that  are  given 
by  his  patriarchs  in  the  Church.  And  I  should  like  to  admonish  my 
brethren  and  sisters  to  read  their  copies  carefully  and  not  to  be 
easily  discouraged  and  think  that  because  their  blessing  is  short  it, 
is  incomplete,  or  because  it  contains  only  a  few  promises,  that  there 
is  something  else  that  has  not  been  written  or  has  not  been  prom- 
ised. Yet,  it  is  true  that  all  the  blessings  and  all  the  promises  that 
the  Lord  has  in  store  for  us  are  not  embodied  in  one  written  bless- 
ing ;  why,  surely,  but  that  written  blessing  is  a  guide,  and  it  is  a  key  in 
a  way,  through  your  faithfulness,  to  the  blessings  which  are  prom- 
ised unto  thq  faithful,  and  may  be  an  index  to  your  whole  life.  And, 
it  isn't  a  good  thing  to  go  without  a  blessing,  that  is  one  extreme  that 
I  wish  to  warn  you  of  j  and  the  other  is  to  beware  of  getting  a  multi- 
tude of  blessings,  in  the  fear  of  your  losing  your  faith  in  the  one 
you  have  already  received,  and  as  long  as  you  get  those  blessings 
according  to  the  rules  that  have  been  established  in  the  Church  for 
our  guide,  there  will  be  no  danger.  At  the  present  time  officers  of 
this  order  in  the  Priesthood  are  placed  in  nearly  all  of  the  stakes  of 
Zion.  These  officers  are  authorized  to  officiate  only  for  members  of 
the  stake  in  which  they  reside  and  their  kin,  and  when  we  go  to  mak- 
ing little  side  rules  from  that,  to  accommodate  certain  individuals, 
then  we  discover  that  someone  else  wants  a  special  order,  a  special 
blessing,  a  special  favor,  and  so  we  have  to  make  exceptions  to  the 
rule,  and  sometimes  the  exception  becomes  the  rule. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  me  admonish  you  to  follow  the  rule  or 
rules  of  the  Church  pertaining  to  your  written  blessings.  Every  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  has  access  to  his  blessing,  either  at  the  hands  of 
the  presiding  patriarch  or  at  the  hands  of  the  patriarchs  in  the  stake 
where  he  resides,  and  not  here  and  there  and  everywhere,  because 
there  is  order  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  grateful,  grateful  indeed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the 
privilege  of  laboring  in  this  wonderful  ministry.  There  are  a  num- 
ber of  men  who  have  been  called  to  this  great  position  in  the  stakes 
of  Zion,  who,  I  suppose  because  of  their  study  and  their  experience, 
have  feared  to  go  ahead  and  exercise  their  callings.  I  also  have 
feared.  Sometimes  I  tremble  with  fear,  because  I  feel  the  responsi- 
bility of  officiating  in  this  sacred  calling.  Nevertheless,  I  feel  to  trust 
in  the  Lord,  and  if  I  am  deceived,  it  is  due  to  the  weakness  of  the 
flesh  and  not  to  the  willingness  and  the  humility  of  the  spirit.  And 
so  I  have  often  wondered  out  of  the  hundreds  and  hundreds  of 
promises  that  have  been  written  and  made  by  the  patriarchs,  how 
many  of  those  wonderful  promises  the  Lord  will  be  able  to  make  come 
true.     I  am  astonished  at  the  testimonies  of  the  Latter-day   Saints 


186  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

as  they  come  back,  declaring  that  those  promises  have  been  fulfilled 
and  are  being  fulfilled  all  over  the  Church ;  and  I  am  grateful  to  be 
permitted  to  officiate  in  this  sacred  work.  I  see  hundreds  of  young 
men  as  they  go  out  from  their  homes  into  the  world,  to  carry  the 
message  of  life  and  salvation  to  the  world.  Under  the  duties  of  my 
office  I  am  enabled  to  admonish  these  young  men,  to  give  them  a 
blessing,  which,  with  their  faith  and  their  works,  the  Lord  is  able  to 
bring  to  pass  a  fulfilment  of  the  promise  or  promises,  and  they  go 
out  to  all  the  world,  in  all  the  nations  of  the  world  where  the  gospel 
door  is  open,  they  have  faith  in  the  promises  given  and  they  live  by 
them,  and  they  come  back  and  testify,  that  the  blessings  have  been  a 
source  of  strength  and  power  to  them.  Others  go  out  into  the  world 
without  the  blessing ;  and  many  of  them  have  written  to  m,e  in  this 
manner,  "Brother  Smith,  here  am  I,  away  over  in  Liverpool ;  I  am 
on  a  mission ;  I  was  unable  to  get  my  blessing  when  I  went  away  from 
home,  and  now  I  am  over  here  in  the  service  of  the  Lord ;  my  com- 
panions have  blessings  and  they  receive  comfort  from  them ;  can't  you 
send  me  a  blessing,  I  need  a  blessing,  can't  you  write  one,  and  send 
it  to  me?"  Well,  I  have  to  send  word  to  them  that  I  can  pray  for 
them,  and  when  they  come  home,  then  I  can  officiate  for  them  in 
the  regular  way  and  give  them  a  blessing.  And  so  I  admonish  the 
young  elders,  the  missionaries,  both  men  and  women,  to  get  their 
blessings  before  they  leave  home,  so  that  they  will  have  these  com- 
forts and  guides  in  their  missionary  experiences  abroad. 

I  also  have  the  privilege  of  officiating  for  many  young  people 
as  they  start  out  into  the  great  battle  of  life,  and  they  receive  com- 
fort, consolation  and  guide,  because  they  have  faith  in  these  prom- 
ises. And  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  the  privilege  of  officiating 
for  them,  because  they  frequently  come  back  and  testify  that  the 
Lord  has  blessed  them,  and  that  their  promises  have  come  true,  and 
they  have  been  a  source  of  great  strength  to  them  in  hours  of  trial, 
in  hours  of  doubt,  and  in  hours  of  sickness. 

I  also  have  been  permitted,  and  am  permitted,  to  officiate  for 
many  fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel,  and  they  have  testified  to  me 
that  they  have  received  comfort  and  consolation  in  their  responsibil- 
ities of  parenthood.  And  so  I  am  grateful  for  the  privilege  of  of- 
ficiating for  them  in  this  sacred  work. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  beware  of  extremes.  Tt  is  not  necessary 
that  you  go  without  a  written  blessing  ;  neither  is  it  necessary  that 
you  burden  our  records  with  your  simple  desires  of  perhaps  wanting 
only  a  question  to  be  answered  rather  than  a  desire  for  a  written 
blessing  at  the  hands  of  the  patriarchs  in  Israel  today. 

T  pray  God  to  bless  this  people  and  those  who  preside  in  Israel 
today.  I  frequently  hear  my  brethren  pray  very  much  as  Elder  Kim- 
ball hears  them  praying,  for  the  leading  authorities  of  the  Church, 
naming  only,  of  course,  the  first  ones,  and  when  T  hear  the  remark. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  187 

"And  then  all  the  rest  of  the  authorities,"  I  always  come  in  for  my 
share,  because  I  need  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  Priesthood  of  God,  and  those  who 
are  called'to  bear  it  in  the  earth,  even  from  the  greatest  to  the  least, 
and  I  pray  God  to  bless  the  faithful  members  of  the  Church,  both 
old  and  young.  I  pray  God  to  bless  our  lands,  that  the  destroying 
elements  may  not  interfere  with  our  blessings.  I  know  that  there 
are  a  great  many  people  now  wondering  how  much  danger  this  won- 
derful storm  is  going  to  cause.  Brethren  and  sisters,  it  may  cause 
some  danger,  and  some  damage,  but  the  Lord  is  not  sending  this  won- 
derful storm  to  crush  us  nor  to  interfere  with  our  blessings.  This 
wonderful  storm  is  a  blessing  to  the  multitudes  of  his  children  in 
these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and  while  it  may  interfere  with  some 
of  us,  in  slight  ways,  the  great  end  of  this  storm  will  be  a  blessing 
to  us. 

I  pray  also  that  drought  as  a  destroying  element  may  not  inter- 
fere with  the  blessings  of  this  people,  and  if  the  brethren  and  sisters, 
the  members  of  the  Church,  will  hearken  unto  the  counsel  they  have 
received  in  this  conference,  as  they  have  done  unto  the  counsel  that 
was  given  six  months  ago,  in  a  like  or  similar  manner,  the  Lord  will 
continue  to  multiply  his  blessings  upon  us ;  and  that  his  blessing  may 
be  upon  us,  and  his  name  be  honored  and  glorified  forever,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  read  here  last  evening  at  the  priesthood  meeting  some  items  re- 
garding our  missionary  work,  and  I  thought  they  would  be  interesting 
to  all  the  Saints,  so  I  will  read  these  items  again : 

MISSIONARY   STATISTICS. 

The  mission  membership  of  the  Church  at  the  close  of  1920 
was  99,870. 

Tithes  paid  in  all  missions  of  the  Church,  $456,699 ;  an  increase 
of  more  than  a  hundred  thousand  over  any  previous  year. 

Value  of  mission  property,  $1,467,571.  This  does  not  include  all 
of  the  Hawaiian  property. 

Spent  for  charity  in  all  the  missions,  $34,532. 

Baptisms  in  all  the  missions  last  year,  5,087.  This  is  the  highest 
record  in  many  years. 

There  were  1,727  missionaries  in  all  the  missions  on  January  1, 
1921,  an  increase  of  574  over  January  1,  1920;  while  the  average  ex- 
pense of  the  missionaries  of  the  Church  was  $37  per  month  in  1920, 
or  $10  per  month  higher  than  in  1919,  and  that  is  the  highest  expense 
per  elder  in  the  history  of  the  Church. 

The  number  of  baptisms  per  elder  in  1920  was  about  three. 


188  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Calls  of  the  missionaries  were  answered  at  2,926,416  homes,  and 
the  elders  had  2,617,345  gospel  conversations.  They  sold  34,703  copies 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  distributed  7,023,378  tracts  and  held 
135,532  meetings. 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE  REPORT. 

The  report  of  the  auditing  committee  was  then  read  as  follows : 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  1,  1921. 
To  Presidents  Heber.J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 
First  Presidency,  and  to  the  Saints  in  Conference  assembled: 
Dear    Brethren    and    Sisters:      The    Church    Auditing    Cotamittee    desire 
to  report  that  they  have  carefully  examined  the  receipts  and  expenditures 
of  the  Church  for  the  year  1920,  as  the   same  appear  from  the  books  and 
vouchers  in  the  office  of  the  Trustee-in-Trust,  and  in  the  office  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishop.     We  find  them  correct  and  fully  accounted  for. 

The  usual  care  has  been  exercised  in  having  the  records  disclose  every 
detail  of  every  transaction,  besides  which,  during  the  past  year,  the  auditing 
and  examination  has  been  emphasized  by  having  the  financial  transactions 
of  the  Church  submitted  to  a  monthly  check. 

Along  the  lines  of  securing  Church  statistics,  we  think  there  should 
be  some  consolidation  of  effort;  and  your  Committee  shall  take  an  early 
opportunity  of  submitting  their  views  upon  this  subject  to  the  First  Presi- 
dency. 

Your  brethren  in  the  Gospel, 
W.  W.  RITER, 
HENRY  H.  ROLAPP, 
PETER  G.  JOHNSTON, 

Auditing  Committee. 

John  C.  Cutler  and  Albert  Scowcroft,  did  not  sign  owing  to  being  absent. 
GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE   CHURCH    SUSTAINED. 

The  General  Authorities  were  presented  by  President  Grabt, 
voted  upon,  and  unanimously  sustained  as  follows : 

First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator 
and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles :     Rudger  Clawson. 

Council  of  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E,  Talmage,  Stephen  L. 
Richards,  Richard  R.   Lyman,  Melvin  J.   Ballard,   John  A.  Widtsoe. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :     Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators:  The  counselors  in  the  First 
Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Presiding  Patriarch. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy :  Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi  Edgar  Young. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  189 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Charles  W.  Nibley,  Presiding  Bishop; 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor;  John  Wells,  Second  Counselor. 

Trustee-in-Trust :  Heber  J.  Grant,  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  as 
Church  Historian  and  General  Church  Recorder,  with  the  following- 
assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A.  William  Lund, 
Junius  F.  Wells. 

Church  Board  of  Education:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose, Willard  Young,  Rudger  Clawson,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard  R. 
Lyman,  Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Commissioners  of  Education:  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, Richard  R.  Lyman. 

Superintendent  of  Church  Schools:     Adam  S.  Bennion. 

Auditing  Committee:  William  W.  Riter,  Henry-  H.  Rolapp, 
Heber  Scowcroft,  John  C.  Cutler,  Peter  G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir:  Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor;  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Assistant  Conductor;  John  J.  McClellan,  Organist;  Edward'  P.  Kim- 
ball and  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Asst.  Organists ;  George  C.  Smith,  Secreary 
and  Treasurer.     And  all  the  members  of  the  Choir. 

Clerk  of  the  General  Conference:     Edward  H.  Anderson. 

TRUSTEES  BRIGHAM  YOUNG  UNIVERSITY. 

In  the  Articles  of  Incorporation  of  the  Brigham  Young  Academy, 
now  University,  it  is  provided'  that  the  presidency  of  the  Church  shall 
nominate  the  trustees  for  this  university,  and  that  they  shall  be  sus- 
tained by  the  General  Conference  once  in  three  years.  This  is  the 
time  to  sustain  those  officers.  The  officers  nominated  by  the  presi- 
dency for  your  support  are  as  follows : 

Board  of  Trustees  of  the  Brigham  Young  University :  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Susa  Y.  Gates,  Reed  Smoot,  Stephen  L.  Chipman,  Lafayette 
Holbrook,  Joseph  R.  Murdock,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Joseph  Reece, 
Zina  Y.  Card,  Willard  Young,  Thos.  W.  Taylor,  J.  Wm.  Knight.  One 
vacancy  had  been  caused  by  the  death  of  Jesse  Knight. 

ALL  THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  HEARD. 

President  Grant  said:  We  have  had  the  privilege  of  hearing 
from  this  stand,  at  this  conference,  from  each  and  all  of  the  General 
Authorities  of  the  Church,  without  having  to  tell  any  one  of  them 
how  long  he  could  talk,  which  has  been  really  a  pleasure  to  me,  because 
it  is  anything  but  pleasant  to  limit  our  brethren  in  their  remarks.  Quite 
frequently  in  our  late  conference  meetings  we  have  had  to  ask  our 
brethren  to  speak  three,  five,  eight  or  ten  minutes,  at  most,  in  order  to 
have  time  to  hear  from  all  of  the  General  Authorities.  We  have  an 
hour  and  five  minutes  left,  and  I  have  concluded  to  ask  my  counselors 
to  make  some  remarks,  and  when  they  finish  I  will  make  some  myself. 


190  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

I  suppose  that  one,  reason  for  our  having  a  little  spare  time  is  that  we 
have  had  one  extra  meeting  during  this  conference,  the  general  ses- 
sions of  the  conference  lasting  three  days  and  a-half. 

Brother  John  Wells  is  at  home  sick.  If  he  had  been  here,  he 
would  have  been  asked  to  speak.  I  forgot  to  mention  that  he  had  not 
spoken. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

"And  I  looked  and  beheld  a  man  among  the  Gentiles  who  was  separated 
from  the  seed  of  my  brethren  by  the  many  waters;  and  I  beheld  the  Spirit 
of  God,  that  it  came  down  and  wrought  upon  the  man;  and  he  went  forth 
upon  the  many  waters,  even  unto  the  seed  of  my  brethren,  who  were  in  the 
promised  land. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  wrought 
upon  other  Gentiles;  and  they  went  forth  out  of  captivity,  upon  the  many 
waters. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld  many  multitudes  of  the  Gentiles 
upon  the  land  of  promise;  and  I  beheld  the  wrath  of  God,  that  it  was  upon 
the,  seed  of  my  brethren;  and  they  were  scattered  before  the  Gentiles,  and 
were  smitten. 

"And  T  beheld  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  it  was  upon  the  Gentiles, 
that  they  did  prosper,  and  obtain  the  land  for  their  inheritance ;  and  I  be- 
held that  they  were  white,  and  exceeding  fair  and  beautiful,  like  unto  my 
people  before  they  were  slain. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the  Gentiles  who  had 
gone  forth  out  of  captivity,  did  humble  themselves  before  the  Lord;  and 
the  power  of  the  Lord  was  with  them; 

"And  1  beheld  that  their  mother  Gentiles  were  gathered  together  upon 
the  waters,  and  upon  the  land  also,  to  battle  against  them; 

"And  I  beheld  that  the  power  of  God  was  with  them,  and  also  that 
the  wrath  of  God  was  upon  all  those  that  were  gathered  together  against 
them  to  battle. 

"And  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the  Gentiles  that  had  gone  out  of  captivity 
were  delivered  by  the  power  of  God  out  of  the  hands  of  all  other  nations." 

WE  BELIEVE  IN  REVELATION. 

The  Church,  in  its  very  incipiency,  declared  to  the  world,  among 
other  fundamental  doctrines  of  its  creed  or  belief,  that  it  believed  all 
that  God  had  revealed,  all  that  he  does  now  reveal,  and  that  he 
would  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important  things  pertaining  to  the 
Kingdom  of  God.  Revelation  is  the  revealing  or  making  known  that 
which  was  not  previously  known  or  understood.  The  Church  has 
always  claimed  that  gift.  It  is  indispensable.  Tt  must  exist  in  the 
Church. 

REVELATION    BELONGS    TO    EVERY    MEMBER    OF    THE    CHURCH. 

It  belongs  to  every  member  of  it.  The  Lord  has  declared,  in  this 
same  book  from  which  I  have  read,  that  when  the  doctrines  which  are 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  WINS  191 

contained  in  the  book  are  made  known  to  the  peoples  of  the  world 
the  truth  of  its  contents  shall  be  manifest  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  to  all  of  those  who  seek  God  in  faith  with  a  desire;  to  know  the 
truth. 

BUT  IN  AFFAIRS  PERTAINING  TO  THE  CHURCH,  AT  LARGE,  THE   KEYS   ARE 
WITH    ONE      MAN    ONLY THE   PRESIDENT   OF   THE.   CHURCH. 

So  that  revelation,  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  who 
manifests  the  truth  and  leads  us  into  it,  is  given  to  all  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  but  in  affairs  which  refer  to  the  Church  at  large, 
its  doctrines,  its  policies,  its  purposes,  the  keys  remain  with  the  man 
who  has  been  chosen,  whom  we  have  sustained  here,  by  our  vote,  to 
occupy  that  special  calling  and  to  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  for 
the  Church  at  large,  and  revelations  for  the  benefit  of  the  Church,  its 
government,  its  doctrine,  must  be  so  confined.  They  will  never  come 
through  emotional  women ;  they  will  never  come  through  men  whose 
right  it  is  not,  and  never  has  been,  to  receive  them.  That  is  what  we 
mean  when  we  say  that  they  key  of  authority  vests  in  and  belongs  to 
the  president  of  the  Church.  It  has  no  application  to  other  people. 
It  applies  only  to  the  Church. 

MANY    NOTED    CHARACTERS    OF    HISTORY    HAVE    RECEIVED    REVELATIONS. 

The  doctrines  of  the  Church  just  as  fully  recognize  that  from  the 
beginning  of  time  God's  Spirit  has  striven  with  man  and  his  will  has 
often  been  revealed  to  man,  just  as  this  scripture  which  I  have  read 
declares  that  it  was  revealed  to  Columbus,  who  was  the  discoverer  of 
this  country.  That  fact  is  as  fundamentally  a  part  of  the  faith  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  as  is  any  other  doctrine.  The  Church  has  al- 
ways believed  and  taught  that  those  men  who  came  to  America, 
guided  by  God  our  Father,  inspired  by  him,  men  who  sought  asylum 
where  they  might  worship  God  according  to  the  dictates  of  their 
conscience,  did  come  moved  upon  by  his  Spirit  and  his  revealed  will 
to  them,  that  they  were  so  established  here,  that  they  were  so  pro- 
tected, and  that  it  is  because  of  the  inspiration  of  God  which]  has  come 
to  men  that  we  live  today  under  the  constitution  which  forms  the  fund- 
amental law  of  this  government.  The  thought  that  this  gift  should 
be  enjoyed  by  us  and  by  us  alone  has  never  been  a  part  of  our  faith. 

Let  me  read  here,  but  let  me  go  back  just  for  a  moment  before 
reading.  We  believe,  and  it  is  a  part  of  the  doctrine  which  we  have 
always  taught,  that  those  men  who  in  early  days  broke  away  from 
the  mother  Church,  which  had  degenerated  until  all  kinds  of  wicked- 
ness were  permitted  to  be  committed  in  its  name  through  license  and 
written  permission  given  by  the  bulls  of  the  Pope,  against  which 
Luther  protested,  against  which  he  stood  firmly  when  his  very  life 
was  at  stake  as  he  stood  there  before  the  Diet  of  Worms  and  de- 
clared that  except  he  be  convinced  by  reason  and  by  the  scripture, 


192  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

he  could  not  retract  anything — acted  under  the  inspiration  of  God. 
It  was  the  power  and  Spirit  of  God  which  prompted  the  man  to 
begin  the  opening  of  a  better  and  greater  dispensation.  We  believe 
that  John  Wycliffe,  whose  body  was  burned  and  the  ashes  of  it 
scattered  upon  a  river  of  England  that  it  might  float  down  to  the 
sea  and  be  obliterated,  was  raised  up  of  the)  Lord  to  publish  the 
Bible  and  make  it,  as  he  said,  so  common  that  the  plow  boy  in  the 
field  would  understand  it  as  well  as  the  Pope.  He  gave  his  life  for 
it.  God  inspired  him  to  do  it.  He  inspired  Tyndale,  burned  at  the 
stake  because  he  dared  to  raise  his  voice  in  defense  cf  the  simple 
truths  contained  in  the  scripture.  The  Lord  was  with  him.  The 
spirit  of  revelation  was  upon  him.  It  marked  and  blazed  the  way 
which  we  have  followed  after.  Now,  that  is  the  doctrine  of  the 
Church.     Let  me  read  here  briefly  again  from  the  Book  of  Mormon : 

"Behold,  that  which  is  of  God,  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  do  good  con- 
tinually; wherefore,  every  thing  which  inviteth  and  enticeth  to  do  good, 
and  to  love  God,  and  to  serve  him,  is  inspired  of  God. 

"Wherefore,  take  heed,  my  beloved  brethren,  that  ye  do  not  judge 
that  which  is  evil  to  be  of  God,  or  that  which  is  good  and  of  God,  to  be  of 
the  devil. 

"For  behold,  my  brethren,  it  is  given  unto  you  to  judge,  that  ye  may 
know  good  from  evil;  and  the  way  to  judge  is  as  plain,  that  ye  may  know 
with  a  perfect  knowledge,  as  the  day-light  is  from  the  dark  night. 

"For  behold,  the  Spirit  of  Christ  is  given  to  every  man,  that  they  may 
know  good  from  evil;  wherefore,  I  shew  unto  you  the  way  to  judge:  for 
everything  which  inviteth  to  do  good,  and  to  persuade  to  believe  in  Christ, 
is  sent  forth  by  the  power  and  gift  of  Christ;  wherefore  ye  may  know  with 
a  perfect  knowledge  it  is  of  God, 

"But  whatsoever  thing  persuadeth  men  to  do  evil,  and  believe  not  in 
Chi-ist,  and  deny  him,  and  serve  not  God,  then  ye  may  know  with  a  per- 
fect knowledge  it  is  of  the  devil;  for  after  this  manner  doth  the  devil  work, 
for  he  persuadeth  no  man  to  do  good,  no,  not  one ;  neither  do  his  angels ; 
neither  do  they  who  subject  themselves  unto  him." 

WE  WISH  GODSPEED  TO  GOOD  MEN  AND  WOMEN1  EVERYWHERE. 

It  appears  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  doctrine  is 
made  so  plain  in  the  scripture  which  I  have  read  that  there  need  be 
no  doubt  regarding  it.  I  only  wish  to  say  to  good  men  and  women 
everywhere  that  we  pray  for  them  and  wish  them  Godspeed  and  co- 
operate with  them  and  bless  them  in  every  effort  which  they  put 
forth  for  the  accomplishment  of  that  which  is  good,  that  which  will 
uplift,  that  which  will  enlighten,  that  which  will  make  better  the  lives 
of  men  and  women,  that  which  will  draw  men  towards  Christ,  who 
is  the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  and  away  from  the  influences  of  the 
evil  one,  which  are  so  dominant  in  the  world  today. 

THE  CHURCH  DICTATES  NO  CREED  OR;  POLICY  TO  ANY  OTHER  BODY. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  never  as- 
sumed nor  desired  to  dictate  the  creed  or  the   policy  of  any  other 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  193 

religious  denomination.  We  grant  to  our  fellow  workers  who  stand 
and  speak  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  the  right  to  receive  the  inspiration 
of  his  Spirit  for  the  control  and  government  of  their  own  congrega- 
tion; and  if  they  lack  that,  if  there  is  a  church  in  which  the  man 
chosen  to  represent  it  is  not  endowed  with  the  spirit  of  revelation 
that  he  may  communicate  it  to  his  congregation  and  thus  lead  them 
in  the  way  of  the  Lord,  woe  be  unto  them ;  they  need  to  seek  after 
it  and  get  it,  for  only  by  the  inspiration  of  that  Spirit  can  the  will 
of  the  Lord  be  done.  So  we  stand  here  not  to  restrain,  not  to  with- 
hold support,  help,  or  blessing,  from  any  man  or  woman  under  heaven 
who  is  seeking  to  do  the  will  of  God  and  bring  other  people  to  do  it. 
The  Lord  bless  them,  and  bless  us  and  help  us  to  understand  that  this 
right  does  belong  to  the  Church  and  it  cannot  be  taken  from  it,  for 
without  it,  confusion  and  dissolution  would  immediately  occur. 

THE  SHEEP  KNOW  THE  VOICE  OF  THE)  GOOD  SHEPHERD. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  the  blessings  of  this  con- 
ference. I  felt  that  I  would  like  to  say  just  this  much  before  its 
conclusion.  1  pray  that  you  may  understand  the  spirit  and  meaning 
in  which  I  say  it,  as  I  believe  you  do.  I  have  been  just  as  thoroughly 
converted  to  this  truth  all  my  life  aa  to  any  other,  that  I  cannot  stand 
before  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  declare  that  which 
is  not  true  and  in  harmony  with  the  will  of  the  Lord  and  make  them 
believe  it.  The  sheep  know  the  voice  of  the  good  Shepherd,  and  a 
stranger  they  will  not  follow.  Cultivate  the  spirit  of  revelation,  every 
one  of  you ;  plead  with  the  Lord  for  greater  endowment  of  his  Spirit. 
That  it  may  direct  us  in  the  walks  of  life  and  help  us  to  live  in  har- 
mony with  the  plan  which  he  has .  given  us  in  the  organization  of 
the  Church,  is  my  prayer  for  us  all,  through  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 

I  believe  that  the  remarks  that  have  been  made  to  us  by  Brother 
Ivins  have  been  understood  and  appreciated  and  believed  in  by  this 
congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  general  conference  assembled.  He 
has  enunciated  the  doctrine  in  great  plainness  that  most  of  us  have 
heard  almost  all  our  lives.  It  has  been  taught  from  this  stand  not 
only  at  conference  times  but  in  many  discourses  that  have  been  de- 
livered by  the  servants  of  the  Lord.  It  was  the  doctrine  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  made  plain  through  him  by  revelation  from  God.  As 
quoted  or  read  by  President  Grant  last  Sunday  morning,  it  was  pro- 
claimed by  the  prophet  and  the  president  of  the  Church,  Brigham 
Young.  He  was  a  great  leader.  He  was  a  man  of  very  strong  mind 
and  will  and  expression,  and  he  always  taught  this  doctrine  in  plain- 
ness— that  while  there  was  but  one  man  at  a  time  on  the  earth  to  re- 
ceive revelation  from  God  for  the  Church,  for  the  whole  Church,  the 
spirit  of  revelation  rested  down  on  the  members  of  the  Church  as  well 


194  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

as  upon  men  holding  the  Priesthood  of  God.  So  with  those  who  suc- 
ceeded him  in  the  presidency.  I  do  not  believe  there  has  been  one  of 
them  who  has  not  taught  that  doctrine. 

THE   LATTER-DAY   SAINTS'   VIEW   OF      REVELATION. 

There  has  been  associated  with  that  revelation  read  by  the  presi- 
dent on  Sunday  as  to  the  right  of  the  man  who  stands  at  the  head  to 
receive  revelation  for  the  Church,  the  doctrine  and  theory  and  practice 
that  three  men  holding  the  presidency  of  the  Church  preside  over  it 
in  all  its  departments,  and  that  when  anything  was  to  be  introduced  of 
a  new  character  or  kind  for  the  government  of  the  Church,  it  would 
come  from  that  presidency  and  would  be  submitted  to  the  quorums  of 
che  priesthood  and  to  the  Saints  generally.  This  was  followed  by 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  when  what  is  called  the  "Manifesto"  came 
from  him  to  the  Church.  It  was  presented  to  the  Church  and  voted  on 
by  the  Church  in  conference  assembled  as  doctrine  for  the  Church.  A 
resolution  was  passed  to  that  effect,  offered  by  President  Lorenzo 
Snow.  We  should'  understand  this.  Brother  Ivins  has  made  it  very 
clear  that  the  revelations  spoken  of  by  the  president  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing for  the  government  of  the  Church  were  for  this  Church,  not  for 
other  churches  or;  societies ;  and  at  the  same  time  that  which  was  said, 
that  which  we  have  believed  in,  that  which  we  have  practiced,  is  not 
confined  entirely  in  all  respects  to  the  one  man ;  that  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion is  for  all  of  the  Church,  every  member  thereof,  but  for  the  govern- 
ment and  guidance  of  the  Church  as  an  organized  body,  that  authority 
is  vested  in  the  one  man  that  stands  at  the  head.  And  it  seems  to  me 
that  a  little  common  reason  would  show  the  value  of  it.  The  Lord 
said  we  were  not  to  receive  as  revelations  for  our  government  that 
which  came  from  anybody  but  the  man  whom  he  had  chosen  to  be  at 
the  head,  and  if  he  transgressed  he  should  not  have  power  except  to 
appoint  another,  nominate  or  name  another,  in  his  stead  to  be  at  the 
head  of  the  Church.  Now  we  can  see  very  quickly,  if  we  will  use  our 
common  sense,  that  if  every  man  of  prominence  in  the  Church  could 
introduce  a  revelation  we  would  be,  as  Brother  Ivins  said,  at  once 
in  confusion.  There  is  none  in  the  Church  who  has  the  right  to  in- 
troduce as  divine  revelation  something  that  is  new  and  different  from 
that  which  has  been  revealed  before,  but  the  man  who  is  appointed  to 
do  that,  so  that  we  might  all  come  to  the  unity  of  the  faith,  and  when 
that  is  received  by  the  Church,  and  adopted  as  part  of  our  creed,  it  be- 
longs to  the  Church,  just  as  much  as  anything  that  has  preceded  it. 

AS  TO   MISINFORMATION. 

Some  time  ago  we  were  afflicted  by  false  reports,  sent  out 
from  this  city  by  telegraph  generally  speaking,  to  the  world,  pretend- 
ing to  give  sentiments  expressed  by  the  leader  of  the  Church.  Lately 
there  has  been  some  reformation  in  that  respect.  I  am  glad  to  know 
that  the  telegraphic  wires  are  not  now  as  they  were  at  that  time  under 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W .  PENROSE  195 

the  domination  of  men  animated  by  the  spirit  of  falsehood.  When 
I  was  editor  of  The  Deseret  News,  my  time  was  largely  taken  up  by 
making  or  giving  refutations  of  statements  of  that  kind  sent  over  the 
wires  from  Salt  Lake  City  by  the  Associated  Press.  I  became  acquaint- 
ed some  time  after  with  the  president  of  that  association,  Mr.  Stone,  a 
fine,  splendid,  able  and  fair-minded  man,  and  had  the  pleasure  per- 
sonally to  talk  with  him  on  this  subject;  and  since  the  time  when  he 
became  fully  acquainted  with  the  manner  in  which  dispatches  were  sent 
from  this  city,  he  saw  to  it  as  far  as  possible,  that  these  false  reports 
were  not  circulated.  Now,  I  am  glad  to  say  there  is  a  change  of  spirit 
in  that  respect ;  but,  at  the  same  time,  sometimes  things  are  published 
and  very  often  talked  about  without  being  published,  which  are  filled 
with  misinformation. 

I  have  heard  considerable  about  this  now,  concerning  the  remarks 
made  by  President  Grant  last  Sunday  morning.  It  is  represented  that 
he  stated  that  there  was  no  man  living  but  him  who  had  any  right  to 
receive  a  revelation  from  God.  He  did  not  say  that.  You  who  were 
here  know  very  well  that  he  did  not  make  any  remark  of  that  kind. 
What  he  tried  to  make  clear  and  did  to  my  mind,  and  I  believe  he  did 
to  all  the  congregation,  was  that  fundamental  doctrine  concerning  the 
revelations  of  God  to  this  Church  as  an  organized  religious  body ;  that 
only  the  man  who  stood  at  the  head  could  be  authorized  Revelator,  the 
end  of  controversy ;  if  there  were  any  controversy  arising,  he  could  seek 
by  revelation  from  God  to  be  able  to  correct  error  as  well  as  to  pro- 
claim truth. 

MEN  WHO  PRETEND  TO  BE  CALLED  OF  GOD  TO  RECEIVE  REVELATION. 

Now,  I  just  mention  the  fact,  not  that  perhaps  it  is  of  very  much 
importance,  but  it  is  associated,  too,  with  some  things  that  have  been 
done  in  some  quarters  of  the  Church.  Men  have  started  up  pretending 
to  be  called  of  God  to  receive  revelation  from  God  to  the  Church.  I 
knew  one  man  of  that  kind  some  years  ago,  who  came  to  the  president 
of  the  Church  and  demanded  the  keys,  for  he  was  "the  man  mighty  and 
strong  sent  to  set  in  order  all  things  in  Zion."  Well,  he  did  not  make 
much  of  an  impression,  but  he  came  two  or  three  times,  and  at  last 
he  was  ordered  out  of  the  office  and  he  stumped  off  on  one  leg — be- 
cause he  had  only  one  good  leg,  the  other  was  a  wooden  one — and  he 
went  off  as  the  "mighty  and  strong"  one,  and  we  heard  nothing  more 
about  it.  That  is  not  a  fair  sample,  perhaps,  of  the  men  who  have  ar- 
rogated this  position  to  themselves.  Lately  there  have  been  some 
members  of  the  Church  who  have  claimed  to  have  revelation  from  God 
to  organize  a  United  Order,  without  calling  it  that  at  first,  but  latterly 
they  did,  and  so  they  threw  in  their  possessions  and  placed  them  in 
the  hands  of  one  individual,  and  he  received  what  he  called  revelations 
from  God,  and  the  people  joined  in  with  him  and  were  induced  to  pray 
that  they  might  find  out  whether  it  was  true,  and  they  have  been  led  off 
by  a  false  spirit.    Some  of  them  have  repented,  and  others  who  did  nut 


196  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

repent  but  continued  in  their  bad  works  of  darkness,  have  been  excom- 
municated from  the  Church.  Now  here  is  simply  a  warning  voice  from 
the  man  that  stands  at  the  head,  of  the  Church  that  people  shall  not  be 
led  astray  either  by  ideas  of  that  kind  which  I  have  just  mentioned, 
or  in  regard  to  other  matters  that  affect  their  condition  in  time  and 
eternity. 

MEN  WHO  HAVE  ARROGATED  TO  THEMSELVES  THE  RIGHT  TO  MARRY. 

Some  men  have  arrogated  to  themselves  the  right  to  marry  when 
it  has  been  shown  very  clearly  during  this  conference  they  have  no  such 
right.  The  right  to  marry  for  time  is  vested  in  certain  officers  of  this 
Church,  and  the  right  to  marry  for  time  and  eternity  can  only  be 
solemnized  and  celebrated  under  the  direction  of  the  Church  authori- 
ties, and  there  is  but  one  man  at  a  time,  the  revelation  itself  says, 
that  holds  the  keys  of  this  authority.  And  how  in  the  world  men  of 
brains,  men  of  standing  in  this  Church,  can  be  led  off  to  the  right  or  to 
the  left  into  works  of  wrong  and  darkness  by  persons  having  no  such 
authority,  and  who  cannot  have  it,  under  the  revelation  itself  on  this 
subject — how  they  can  do  that  has  been  very  perplexing  to  me.  But 
when  I  read  in  the  revelations  of  God,  as  the  Apostle  James  puts  it, 
that  "God  is  not  tempted  with  evil,  neither  tempteth  he  any  man,  but 
every  man  is  tempted  when  he  is  led  away  by  his  own  lust,"  that  ex- 
plains the  thing  clearly  to  my  mind. 

Now  I  have  made  these  few  remarks  in  regard  to  this  subject  be- 
cause I  am  fully  desirous,  with  all  my  soul,  that  our  people  should  un- 
derstand, and  that  the  world,  if  they  want  it,  may  understand,  and 
that  our  friends  who  are  not  of  our  faith  may  not  misunderstand  our 
position,  and  if  they  choose  to  misinterpret  and  to  twist  and  turn  about 
the  words  that  are  uttered  from  this  stand  and  proclaim  them  to  the 
world  as  the  words  of  our  leader,  why  they  must  take  the  conse- 
quences. 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  BELIEVE  IN  ANCIENT  AND  MODERN 
REVELATION. 

It  has  been  a  doctrine,  as  Brother  Ivins  has  said,  from  the  be- 
ginning, that  we  believe  in  revelation,  and  the  trouble  with  our  pre- 
tended friends,  who  are  misinterpreting  this  matter,  is  they  do  not  be- 
lieve in  modern  revelation  at  all,  and  our  conflict  has  been  with  them 
from  the  beginning.  They  have  made  the  conflict.  Joseph  Smith  re- 
ceived, a  revelation  from  God,  and  the  great  heads  of  the  Christian 
churches  and  the  ministers  of  the  various  conflicting  denominations 
have  declared  that  the  doctrine  of  revelation  in  these  times  is  false, 
that  God  does  not  now  reveal  anything  for  the  children  of  men,  that 
all  the  revelation  that  we  have  now  that  is  of  any  account  is  to  be 
found  between  the  lids  of  the  Bible,  and  they  quote  the  last  chapter  of 
Revelation,  a  few  words  there,  that  if  "any  man  shall  add  to  these 
things  God  shall  add  to  him  the  plagues  that  are  written  in  this  book." 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  197 

They  leave  out  the  other  part,  generally,  strangely,  "if  any  man  shall 
take  away  from  the  words  of  the  prophecies  of  this  book,  God  shall 
take  away  his  part  out  of  the  book  of  life  and  out  of  the  holy  city 
and  from  the  things  that  are  written  in  the  book."  And  they  do  not 
dwell  much  upon  the  saying  in  it  that  "all  liars  and  they  that  love 
and  make  a  lie  shall  have  their  part  in  the  lake  which  burnetii  with  fire 
and  brimstone." 

THE  RIGHT  TO  RECEIVE   REVELATION   IS   COMMON   TO  ALL. 

President  Grant  did  not  claim  that  he  was  the  only  man  that  could 
receive  revelation  from  God.  He  has  taught  from  the  beginning,  as  all 
the  leaders  of  this  Church  have,  that  to  receive  revelation  is  the  gift 
of  all  men  who  seek  for  it.  "Draw  near  unto  me  and  I  will  draw 
near  unto  you,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts."  That  was  the  doctrine  of  the 
ancient  seers  and  prophets.  That  is  the  doctrine  of  the  latter-day 
prophets,  and  of  the  Latter-day  Saints'  Church.  The  right  to  receive 
revelation  from  God  is  common  to  every  one.  Christ  taught:  "If 
ye  then,  being  evil,  know  how  to  give  good  gifts  unto  your  children : 
how  much  more  shall  your  heavenly  Father  give  the  Holy  Spirit  to 
them  that  ask  him?"  That  Holy  Spirit  is  the  spirit  of  revelation,  that 
which  makes  clear,  that  which  reveals ;  whether  it  be  something  new  or 
something  old  does  not  matter,  if  it  is  true.  It  is  the  spirit  of  truth,  and 
that  is  the  spirit  of  life  and  the  spirit  of  light  that  he  has  given  to  every- 
one born  into  the  world.  Every  sensible,  every  sane  person,  has  a  right 
to  the  guidance  of  that  spirit  if  he  will  seek  for  it  in  the  right  way  and 
be  obedient  to  its  whisperings  and  its  teachings.  The  beneficial  inven- 
tions received  by  leading  minds  come  from  that  source.  Now,  it  is  not 
the  right  of  every  person  to  teach  things  that  he  may  consider  he  has 
received  by  revelation,  to  others.  I  have  had  manifestations  to  me 
from  the  time  when  I,  as  a  boy,  went  out  into  the  world  to  preach  the 
gospel  without  purse  or  scrip  or  means,  for  my  personal  benefit.  I 
received  them  from  the  Lord ;  they  were  my  guiding  stars.  I  am 
thankful  to  know  that  I  received  this  inspiration  in  my  labors  and 
duties,  and  there  are  many  things  I  have  never  talked  about  to  others, 
and  I  know  just  as  well  that  they  are  true  as  that  I  am  standing  here, 
but  it  was  not  given  me  to  teach  them  to  the  world  or  to  anybody 
else.  It  was  for  me.  Every  inspiration  that  I  have  received  from  the 
Almighty  has  strengthened  my  faith  in  this  work,  this  organization,  this 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  his  Church,  and  I  know  that  it  is 
of  God,  and  that  it  will  prevail. 

ALL  REVELATION   FOR  THE  CHURCH    COMES  THROUGH   THE   HEAD  OF  THE 

CHURCH. 

There  have  been  some  persons  who  have  been  led  away  by  an  evil 
influence,  which  has  caused  some  of  them  to  lose  their  standing  in  the 
Church,  and  it  was  pertinent  and  timely  for  our  president  to  allude  to 
this  doctrine  as  shown  in  the  forty- third  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 


198  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Covenants,  and  what  he  said  is  true  and  it  is  the  word  of  the  Lord  to 
the  Church ;  it  was  then  and  it  is  now,  and  anything  that  the  Lord  has 
to  reveal  for  the  Church  for  its  guidance  and  government  in  doctrine 
and  principle  and  discipline  will  come  through  the  head,  and  we  will 
have  the  opportunity,  if  it  is  new,  to  pass  judgment  upon  it.  In  the 
book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  have  a  number  of  revelations,  all 
of  which  have  been  received  by  the  body  of  the  Church  as  the  word  of 
the  Lord.  I  was  present  when  that  was  done,  when  we  were  all  or- 
ganized in  the  Priesthood  in  our  various  quorums.  The  Bible,  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  were  voted  upon  by  the  priesthood  of  the  Lord  and  also  by  the 
congregation  in  conference  during  the  time  of  President  Taylor.  If 
the  Lord  has  anything  further  to  reveal,  it  will  come  through  the 
head,  and  then  the  body  responding  will  make  it  the  doctrine  of  the 
Church.  That  is  the  order  of  heaven.  God  reveals,  God  orders,  God 
presides,  and  the  heavenly  hosts  willingly  and  gladly  receive  his  guid- 
ance, and  his  word  becomes  their  word  and  they  are  like  Jesus,  they  do 
his  will,  but  they  do  it  because  it  is  the  will  of  the  Father  and  they  know 
that  the  Father  is  true.  And  so  when  we  get  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands  and  we  walk  in  its  light,  we  know  for  our- 
selves concerning  the  work,  concerning  all  our  duties  as  we  are  called 
upon  to  perform  them. 

WOMEN   AND  THE   PRIESTHOOD. 

One  other  remark  I  want  to  make,  and  that  is  this :  There  seems 
to  be  a  revival  of  the  idea  among  some  of  our  sisters  that  they  hold 
the  Priesthood.  President  Clawson  sat  down  on  that  in  his  remarks 
on  Sunday.  He  said  "No,  the  sisters  do  not  hold  the  Priesthood." 
Well,  is  that  right  ?  Yes ;  but  then  there  is  a  little  qualification  to  it, 
perhaps,  very  slight.  When  a  woman  is  sealed  to  a  man  holding  the 
Priesthood,  she  becomes  one  with  him.  Sometimes  the  man  is  the  one 
and  sometimes  he  is  not,  but  she  receives  blessings  in  asso- 
ciation with  him.  The  glory  and  power  and  dominion  that  he 
will  exercise  when  he  has  the  fulness  of  the  Priesthood  and  becomes  a 
"king  and  a  priest  unto  God,"  she  will  share  with  him.  Sisters  have  said 
to  me  sometimes,  "But,  I  hold  the  Priesthood  with  my  husband." 
"Well,"  I  asked,  "what  office  do  you  hold  in  the  Priesthood?"  Then 
they  could  not  say  much  more.  The  sisters  are  not  ordained  to  any 
office  in  the  Priesthood  and  there  is  authority  in  the  Church  which  they 
cannot  exercise ;  it  does  not  belong  to  them ;  they  cannot  do  that  prop- 
erly any  more  than  they  can  change  themselves  into  a  man.  Now,  sis- 
ters, do  not  take  the  idea  that  I  wish  to  convey  that  you  have  no  bless- 
ings or  authority  or  power  belonging  to  the  Priesthood.  When  you  are 
sealed  to  a  man  of  God  who  holds  if  and  who,  by  overcoming,  inherits 
the  fulness  of  the  glory  of  God,  you  will  share  that  with  him  if  you  are 
fit  for  it,  and  I  guess  you  will  be. 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE  199 

AS  TO  WOMAN'S  RIGHT  TO  ADMINISTER  TO  THE  SICK. 

iThere  is  another  thing  connected  with  that.  I  have  had  sisters 
visit  me  and  ask  me  if  they  did  not  have  the  right  to  administer  to  the 
sick.  "Well,"  I  have  said,  "yes,  you  have  in  one  way;  Jesus  Christ 
said,  'These  signs  shall  follow  them  that  believe — in  my  name  shall 
they  cast  out  devils ;  they  shall  speak  with  new  tongues ;  they  shall  lay 
hands  on  the  sick  and  they  shall  recover.' "  As  I  say,  there  are 
occasions  when  perhaps  it  would  be  wise  for  a  woman  to  lay  her  hands 
upon  a  child,  or  upon  one  another  sometimes,  and  there  have  been 
appointments  made  for  our  sisters,  some  good  women,  to  anoint  and 
bless  others  of  their  sex  who  expect  to  go  through  times  of  great  per- 
sonal trial,  travail  and  "labor;"  so  that  is  all  right,  so  far  as  it 
goes.  But  when  women  go  around  and  declare  that  they  have  been 
set  apart  to  administer  to  the  sick  and  take  the  place  that  is  given  to 
the  elders  of  the  Church  by  revelation  as  declared  through  James  of 
old,  and  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  modern  times,  that  is  an  as- 
sumption of  authority  and  contrary  to  scripture,  which  is  that  when 
people  are  sick  they  shall  call  for  the  elders  of  the  Church  and  they 
shall  pray  over  and  officially  lay  hands  on  them. 

It  is  the  prayer  of  faith  that  saves  the  sick ;  faith  in  God  not  in 
some  particular  man,  although  some  men  seem  to  have  more  of  the 
gift  of  healing  than  others,  that  is  true,  but  the  authority  in  the  Church 
is  vested  in  the  elders.  True,  a  priest,  of  course,  can,  a  teacher  can,  and 
so  can  a  deacon,  although  neither  a  teacher  nor  a  deacon  can  exercise 
the  power  in  the  lesser  Priesthood  which  is  for  the  remission  of  sins 
through  baptism ;  he  cannot  do  that,  he  has  not  the  authority,  but  he 
may  lay  hands  on  the  sick  and  pray  God  to  heal  them ;  so  can  a  mem- 
ber. So  can  people  out  of  the  Church,  and  so  they  have  done.  Having 
faith  in  God,  they  have  asked  God  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
heal  the  sick  by  the  laying  on  of  their  hands,  and  some  of  them  have 
got  well,  and  a  good  many  others  have  died,  like  it  is  with  all  of  us. 

NO   MEETINGS  TO  BE   HELD  WITHOUT  CONSENT  OF   PRESIDING 
AUTHORITIES. 

These  sisters,  too,  claim  the  right  to  go  around  and  hold  meetings 
of  their  own  and  speak  in  tongues  and  interpret  the  same  and  to 
prophesy.  Now  they  may  have  the  gift  of  tongues ;  that  is  just  as 
much  for  the  sisters  as  it  is  for  the  brethren,  and  seems  to  be  a  little 
more  so.  One  good  sister  said  to  another,  "Oh,  you  may  have  the 
gift  of  wisdom,  I  don't  say  you  haven't,  but  I  have  got  the  gift  of 
tongues."  She  thought  she  was  ahead  of  her  sister  who  had  wisdom. 
Sisters,  it  is  not  your  right  to  organize  meetings  either  for  the  sisters 
or  for  the  brethren  in  your  respective  wards  without  the  regulation 
and  permission  of  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  ward.  Some  sisters 
not  very  far  from  this  spot  used  to  meet  together,  relate  visions,  speak 
in  tongues  and  had  a  glorious  time,  and  the'  president  of  the  stake  was 


200  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

appealed  to  as  to  the  right  to  do  that.  He  said,  "Sisters,  you  must 
not  hold  any  meetings  of  that  kind  unless  you  get  permission  from 
the  bishop,"  and  they  have  never  asked  permission  of  the  bishop 
nor  held  such  meetings  since  that  time.  What  does  that  show?  It 
shows  that  they  were  not  acting  under  proper  authority.  The  Lord 
has  declared  "my  house  is  a  house  of  order." 

DO  WHAT  IS  RIGHT  AND  LOOK  TO  THE  LORD  FOR  HISl  WORD. 

Let  us  do  that  which  is  right ;  let  us  avoid  that  which  we  have  no 
right  to  do.  Do  not  let  us  presume  to  hold  Church  meetings  in  our 
own  authority.  That  is  under  the  direction  of  the  ward  authorities 
and  they  will  say  when  meetings  are  to  be  held ;  the  quorum  meetings, 
of  course,  are  under  the  direction  of  the  quorum  authorities.  Let  us  be 
wise  in  our  generation,  and  let  us  look  to  the  Lord  for  his  word,  through 
the  appointed  channel.  And  when  we  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God', 
for  a  prophet,"  let  us  do  so  in  faith.  Many  Saints  sing  that  song,  but 
they  do  not  want  to  do  or  believe  what  he  says.  That  is  the  way  with 
some  folks ;  not  with  you,  of  course ;  we  know  better  or  ought  to  know 
better.  Let  us  follow  in  the  ways  the  Lord  has  pointed  out,  and'  let 
us  not  get  very  angry  at  what  the  wicked  do.  The  wicked  will  not 
cease  from  troubling,  liars  will  not  cease  from  lying,  unless  God 
convents  or  compels  them,  and  they  will  go  on  in  their  evil  way ;  some  of 
them,  until  they  find  they  are  with  the  wicked  in  that  punishment  which 
is  figuratively  called  fire  and  brimstone. 

CONCLUDING    TESTIMONY. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I  am  thankful  to  the 
Lord  today  for  his  mercies  to  me ;  I  am  thankful  for  his  goodness  to 
me  all  my  life  long.  God  be  praised  for  the  revelations  of  the  latter 
days,  and  for  the  revelations  of  ancient  days  that  have  been  handed 
down  to  us ;  only  a  few  have  come  to  us,  but  we  are  living  now  in  the 
full  blaze  of  the  gospel  of  the  last  dispensation.  The  Holy  Ghost, 
the  Comforter,  is  with  this  people ;  Jesus  Christ  the  Son  is  at  the 
head  of  the  Church,  and  God  the  Father  is  above  all,  and  we  will  find 
out  when  we  learn  the  fulness  that  Providence  is  indeed  over  all,  and 
that  we  are  to  acknowledge  his  hand  in  all  things,  in  adversity  as 
well  as  in  riches.  In  all  conditions  in  which  we  find  ourselves,  we  will 
praise  the  Lord  and  give  thanks  to  him  and  serve  him  with  all  our  heart 
and  might  and  mind  and  strength,  and  will  try  to  love  our  neighbors  as 
ourselves,  as  far  as  we  can,  and  if  we  can  say,  "O  Lord,  they 
don't  know  what  they  do,"  we  will  say  also,  "Father,  forgive  them." 
I  am  afraid  some  of  them  do  know  what  they  are  doing ;  that  is,  they 
are  not  telling  the  truth,  but  are  purposely  perverting  it.  They,  too,  are 
in  the  view  and  the  hands  of  the  Almighty. 

God's  peace  be  with  you  all,  through  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT  201 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

A  revelation  was  given  to  the  Church  ninety  years  ago  last 
February  from  which  I  have  read  during  this  conference,  and  I 
will  read  from  it  again.  This  revelation  is  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  or  the  elders  in  it. 

A   VERY    IMPORTANT   REVELATION. 

"Oh,  hearken,  ye  elders  of  my  church,  and  give  an  ear  to  the  words 
which  I  shall  speak  unto  you. 

"For  behold,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  have  received  a  com- 
mandment for  a  law  unto  my  church,  through  him  whom  I  have  appointed 
unto  you,  to  receive  commandments  and  revelations  from  my  hands." 

I  want  to  emphasize  once  more,  "A  law  unto  my  church." 

"And  this  ye  shall  know  assuredly  that  there  is  none  other  appointed 
unto  you,"  [Who?  "my  church,"]  "to  receive  commandments  and  revela- 
tions until  he  be  taken,  if  he  abide  in  me. 

"But  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  none  else  shall  be  appointed 
unto  this  gift  except  it  be  through  him,  for  if  it  be  taken  from  him,  he  shall 
nov  have  power  except  to  appoint  another  in  his  stead; 

"And  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  you,"  [and  who  is  this  law  unto?  "Unto 
my  churdh,"]  "that  ye  receive  not  the  teachings  of  any  that  shall  come  be- 
fore you  as  revelations  or  commandments; 

"And  this  I  give  unto  you  that  you  may  not  be  deceived,  that  you  may 
know  they  are  not  of  me. 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  he  that  is  ordained  of  me  shall  come 
in  at  the  gate  and  be  ordained  as  I  have  told  you  before,  to  teach  those 
revelations  which  you  have  received,  and  shall  receive  through  him  whom 
I  have  appointed." 

And  I  said  that  anybody  who  taught  contrary  to  that  was  a  plain, 
simple,  every-day  liar.  That  is  what  I  said ;  that  is  what  I  mean.  The 
idea  that  any  man  claiming  to  believe  the  teachings  of  this  revela- 
tion saying  that  he  has  today  the  right  to  perform  plural  marriages,  is 
utterly  absurd.     We  have  cut  such  men  off  from  the  Church. 

CONCERNING    PLURAL    MARRIAGES. 

Perhaps  I  owe  an  apology — in  fact  I  will  make  one — for  speaking 
with  anger  in  this  building  last  Sunday  night.  As  I  came  to  the 
meeting  Sunday  night,  I  was  told  that  a  person  had  said  that  neither 
Heber  J.  Grant  nor  any  other  man  had  any  right  to  say  that  an 
individual  could  not  perform  a  plural  marriage;  that  God  had  re- 
vealed plural  marriages,  and  therefore  that  I  had  no  right  to  say  that 
they  could  not  be  performed,  and  that  one  party  had  remarked  that  it 
would  take  an  angel  from  heaven  to  convince  him,  even  if  I  did  say 
it.  In  my  remarks  on  Sunday  evening  I  had  no  thought  of  referring  to 
anybody  outside  of  this  Church,  or  that  I  ever  had  any  right  to 
undertake  to  say  that  I  had  anything  to  do  with  directing  any  other 


202  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

people  than  the  Latter-day  Saints.  But  I  branded  as  plain,  simple  liars 
those  who  undertake  to  say  that  anybody,  aside  from  the  President  of 
the  Church,  had  an}'  right  to  give  revelations  to  this  people.  I  had 
just  heard  that  one  more  pretended  plural  marriage  had  been  performed, 
and  after  all  the  teachings  from  this  stand,  and  all  the  declarations,  and 
after  excommunicating,  as  we  have  done,  within  the  last  year,  one 
man  for  marrying — or  pretending  to  marry — a  plural  wife,  I  confess 
I  was  angry  and  "rebuked  with  sharpness." 

NO  PERSON   HAS  THE  RIGHT  TO  PERFORM   PLURAL  MARRIAGES. 

But  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  no  man  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth  has  any  right  or  any  authority  to  perform  a  plural 
marriage,  and  there  are  no  plural  marriages  today  in  the  Church  of 
Christ,  because  no  human  being  has  the  right  to  perform  them.  There- 
fore, any  person  pretending  to  have  that  right  is  attempting  to  exer- 
cise an  authority  that  he  does  not  have,  and  therefore  he  does  not 
perform  a  marriage  and  there  is  no  marriage  covenant  when  such 
ceremonies  are  performed. 

SEVERAL  PERSONS  EXCOMMUNICATED  FOR  PERFORMING  PRETENDED 
MARRIAGE    CEREMONIES. 

We  have  excommunicated  several  patriarchs  because  they  arro- 
gated unto  themselves,  the  right,  or  pretended  right,  to  perform  these 
ceremonies,  and  after  our  having  excommunicated  several  patriarchs, 
another  one,  so  I  am  informed,  has  committed  the  same  offense.  I  an- 
nounce to  all  Israel  that  no  living  man  has  the  right  to  perform 
plural  marriages.  I  announce  that  no  patriarch  has  the  right 
to  perform  any  marriages  at  all  in  the  Church.  We  have  delegated, 
at  the  present  time,  to  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  to  the  bishops  of 
wards,  the  right  to  perform  lawful  marriages,  and  there  has  been 
delegated  to  some  elders  who  held  positions  as  county  clerks,  the 
right  to  exercise  the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  to  perform  legal 
marriages  for  time.  And  it  was  in  view  of  the  lie  that  was  going  out, 
and  a  desire  to  protect  virtuous,  noble,  good  girls  who  were  being  de- 
ceived and  entrapped  into  doing  what,  under  the  law  of  God  today, 
and  under  the  law  of  the  land,  is  adultery,  that  I  was  branding  the  liar. 


CONCERNING  INSPIRATION. 

I  want  my  friends  to  know  that  the  doctrines  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  declare  that  God  inspires  men.  We 
heard  Elder  Whitney  read  to  us  the  twenty-ninth  chapter  of  Alma. 
When  I  was  the  junior  member  of  the  council  of  the  twelve  apostles,  I 
knew  that  chapter  off  by  heart,  and  I  used  to  repeat  it,  time  and  time 
again,  in  my  public  addresses. 

"O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  1.  GRANT  203 

!  might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the 
earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people!" 

This  same  chapter  further  states  that  men  are  inspired,  and 
are  given  all  that  is  wisdom  in  God  that  they  should  have,  and 
Alma  says  that  he  ought  to  be  content  with  the  things  that  were  al- 
lotted unto  him.  And  the  thing  allotted  unto  him  was  to  declare  re- 
pentance to  the  people,  and  he  had  had  great  joy  in  that  many  men, 
because  of  the  word  he  had  declared,  had  come  unto  God.  Perhaps  there 
is  no  other  passage,  no  single  chapter,  in  all  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
that  I  have  preached  from  as  often  as  I  have  from  that  twenty- 
ninth  chapter  of  Alma.  We  believe  absolutely,  as  has  been  said  here, 
that  God  inspired  Columbus.  I  commend  to  all  Latter-day  Saints 
when  the  conference  pamphlet  is,  published,  to  read  what  Elder  Orson 
F.  Whitney  said  about  the  inspiration  of  God  being  given  to  men  in 
all  parts  of  the  world.    We  endorse  his  remarks. 

One  of  the  fundamental  articles  of  faith  promulgated  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  : 

"We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience ;  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege — let 
them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may." 

But  we  claim  absolutely  no  right,  no  prerogative  whatever,  to 
interfere  with  any  other  people.  We  desire  the  good  will  of  all  man- 
kind, and  we  desire  the  advancement  of  all  mankind,  and  w,e  pray 
God  to  bless  every  man  that  is  striving  for  the  betterment  of  human- 
ity in  any  of  the  walks  of  life;  and  we  say  of  every  man  who  be- 
lieves that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  who  proclaims  it :  O  God,  bless 
that  man.  But  we  cannot  pray  for  those  who  pretend  to  preach  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  deny  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  who  proclaim  that  he  was  only  a  man.  Jesus  is  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  the  Savior  of  mankind,  who  came  to  the  earth 
with  a  divinely  appointed  mission  to  die  for  the  redemption  of  man- 
kind. Jesus  Christ  is  literally  the  Son  of  God,  the  Only  Begotten  in 
the  flesh.  He  is  our  Redeemer,  and  we  worship  him,  and  we  praise 
God  for  every  individual  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  who  worships 
our  Lord  and  Master  as  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

I  rejoice  in  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  that  have  come  to  us  dur- 
ing this  conference.  God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints.  God  bless 
every  honest-hearted  soul  all  over  the  world,  all  who  are  striving  to 
do  good,  striving  to  benefit  mankind.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  rich 
outpouring  of  his  holy  Spirit  during  our  conference.  May  we  all  go 
home  and  take  the  Conference  spirit  of  love  and  of  fellowship  and  good 
will  to  all  the  congregations  of  the  Saints,  and  thus  inspire  them  to 
serve  God  and  to  keep  his  commandments  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


204  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

I  want  to  read  just  one  more  thing : 

"We    believe    in   being    subject    to    kings,    presidents,    rulers    and    mag- 
isuates;   in  obeying,  honoring  and   sustaining  the  law." 

The  law  provides  that  any  person  performing  a  marriage  shall 
record  the  marriage,  and  I  haven't  heard  of  this  last  marriage  T 
referred  to  being  recorded;  and  there  should  be  a  license  issued  also; 
I  haven't  heard  of  any  license. 

A  solo  was  sung,  entitled,  "The  mighty  God  has  spoken." 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a 
prophet." 

The  Conference  was  adjourned  until  October,  1921. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  conducted  the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. Professor  J.  J.  McClellan  played  the  accompaniments  and  in- 
terludes, etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  assisted  by  Edward  P.  Kimball  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the  discourses  were  made  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle by  Franklin  W.  Otterstrom,  assisted  by  Elders  Clarence  Cramer 
and  Clyde  Rasmussen ;  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  by  Frederick  E.  Barker 
and  Fred  J.  Barker. 

EDWARD  H.  ANDERSON, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference 


Strength  of  the  "Mormon"  Church 

{See  Conference  Record,  April,  1921,  p.  23) 


{From   the   "Coast   Banker,"   San   Francisco   and   Los  Angeles,  March,   1921.) 

Glimpses  From  Its  History,  With  Reference  to  Its  Trials,  Travels,  Be- 
liefs, Achievements,  and  Plans  for  the  Future,  as  Shown  in  an  Address 
Delivered  by  Invitation  at  the  Banquet  of  the  Knife  and  Fork  Club  at 
Hotel  Muhlebach,  Kansas  City,  December  16,  1920,  by  Heber  J.  Grant, 
President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

One  of  the  greatest  forces,  in  temporal  and  religious  affa'irs  of  the 
United  States  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  com- 
monly known  as  the  "Mormon"  Church.  Its  head  is  Heber  J.  Grant,  who 
officiates  under  the  title  of  President.  Mr.  Grant  possesses  the  character- 
istics of  a  real  leader — strength  of  purpose,  nobility  and  humility  of  char- 
acter, enthusiasm  for  all  causes  in  which  he  enters,  and  indefatigable  in- 
dustry. He  is  well  known  and  respected  by  the  business  men  of  the  west- 
ern third  of  the  United  States,  regardless  ,of  their  religious  affiliations.  For 
years  he  has  been  a  banker,  and  he  holds  the  office  of  president  of  the  Utah 
State  National  Bank,  and  of  the  Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  Trust  Company, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  for  many  years  he  has  been  strongly  identified  with  the 
insurance  business  as  well;  so  that  when,  on  the  death  of  President  Smith, 
he  succeeded  to  the  headship  of  the  "Mormon"  Church,  he  brought  with 
him  an  equipment  that  fully  qualified  him  to  take  up  the  leadership  in  the 
various  corporations  in  which  the  "Mormon"  Church  either  holds  a  dominant 
position  or  is  interested  in  a  lesser  degree. 

The  important  place  the  "Mormon"  Church  occupies,  not  only  in  Utah 
buc  in  Idaho,  Oregon,  Washington,  Wyoming,  Arizona,  and  other  parts  of 
the  Western  Hemisphere,  is  told  by  President  Grant  in  a  most  thorough 
study  and  analysis;  therefore  we  recommend  to  our  readers,  the  financial 
people  of  the  western  third  of  the  United  States,  that  they  read  this  address 
by  him,  because  it  will  explain  to  them,  not  alone  his  plans,  but  those  of 
the  organization  which  is  so  great  a  factor  in  their  territory. — The  Editor. 

I  consider  it  a  very  distinct  honor  indeed,  gentlemen,  to  be  invited 
to  speak  here  tonight  to  this  representative  body  of  business  men  in  your 
wonderful  city.  It  is  remarkable,  to  me,  that  your  bank  clearings 
should  exceed  the  showing  of  St.  Louis,  although  you  have  only  one- 
half  the  population.  Utah  is  one  of  the  most  enterprising 
of  all  the  enterprising  states  in  the  United  States,  and 
the  reason  I  consider  it  an  honor  to  speak  here  is  the  fact 
that  early  "Mormons"  were  driven  from  this  section  of  the 
country.  (Laughter.)  I  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity  of  address- 
ing a  body  of  representative  men  in  the  very  place  from  which  our 
people  were  expelled  by  an  exterminating  order  of  Governor  Boggs. 
This  is  a  good  illustration  of  the  wonderful  change  of  sentiment  in  the 
United  States  regarding  the  people  with  whom  I  have  the  honor  to  be 
associated.  My  mother  was  cast  out  as  a  thing  of  evil,  by  some  of  the 
Ivins  family  of  the  East,  when  she  became  a  member  of  the  Church  of 


206       .  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Forty-two  years  later,  when  I  took 
her  back  to  Philadelphia  to  meet  her  relatives  and  friends,  her  brothers 
and  sisters  having  passed  away,  the  nephews  and  nieces  fell  in  love 
with  the  "very  fine  old  lady." 

Many  people  imagine  that  the  "Mormons"  have  no  faith  in  what 
is  known  as  the  Bible.  You  will  pardon  me  for  taking  a  little  of  your 
time  to  correct  a  few  erroneous,  impressions  of  this  kind,  and  to  refer 
briefly  to  the  travels  of  our  people  before  the  pioneers  reached  Utah. 
The  "Mormons"  accept  the  Bible  as  the  word  of  God,  but  they  also  be- 
lieve in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Comparatively  few  people  know  what  the 
Book  of  Mormon  purports  to  be.  It  is  the  sacred  history  of  the  fore- 
fathers of  the  American  Indian. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  started  in  New  York,  where  the  Church  was 
organized  in  1830.  They  later  located  at  Kirtland,  Ohio,  where  they 
built  quite  a  large  temple,  which  is  still  standing.  The  opposition  and 
ill  will  which  they  encountered  were  so  great  that  they  decided  to  move 
to  Missouri,  there  locating  in  and  around  Far  West.  Previously  they 
had  established  a  colony  at  Independence,  a  few  miles  from  this  city, 
where  they  met  with  much  opposition  and  were  forced  to  leave.  After- 
wards, as  I  have  stated,  they  were  expelled  from  the  State  of  Missouri 
under  the  exterminating  order  of  Governor  Lilburn  W.  Boggs.  Later 
they  were  invited  to  locate  at  Commerce,  Illinois,  where  there  were  very 
few  people.  They  built  a  city  known  as  "Nauvoo,  the  Beautiful,"  in 
which  within  a  few  years  there  were  20,000  inhabitants.  Here,  too,  they 
met  much  opposition.  The  prejudice  against  them  caused  them  to  be 
bitterly  persecuted,  and  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  crossed  the  Mississip- 
pi River,  intending  with  a  chosen  body  of  men  to  explore  the  Rocky 
Mountains  for  a  place  of 'settlement  and  gathering  for  the  people.  A 
short  time  before  that  he  had  uttered  a  prophecy  "that  the  Saints  would 
continue  to  suffer  much  affliction,  and  would  be  driven  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains ;  many  would  apostatize,  others  would  be  put  to  death  by 
our  perecutors,  or  lose  their  lives  in  consequence  of  exposure  or  dis- 
ease ;  and  some  would  live  to  go  and  assist  in  making  settlements,  and 
build  cities,  and  see  the  Saints  become  a  mighty  people  in  the  midst  of 
the  Rocky  Mountains."  At  the  time  this  prophecy  was  delivered,  one 
of  the  foremost  statesmen  in  the  United  States,  Daniel  Webster,  is 
quoted  as  having  made  a  remarkable  statement  with  reference  to  the 
western  part  of  our  country,  in  which  Joseph  Smith  had  predicted  the 
Saints  would  become  a  mighty  people.    Said  Webster : 

"What  do  we  want  with  this  vast,  worthless  area?  This  region  of 
savages  and  wild  beasts,  of  deserts,  of  shifting  sands  and  whirlwinds  of 
dust,  of  cactus  and  prairie  dogs  ?  To  what  use  could  we  ever  hope  to 
put  these  great  deserts  or  those  endless  mountain  ranges,  impenetrable 
and  covered  to  their  very  base  with  eternal  snow  ?  What  can  we  ever 
hope  to  do  with  the  western  coast  of  three  thousand  miles,'  rockbound, 
cheerless,  uninviting,  and  not  a  harbor  on  it?     Mr.  President,  T  will 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH,  207 

never  vote   one   cent   from   the   public  treasury  to   place   the   Pacific 
Coast  one  inch  nearer  Boston  than  it  now  is."    (Laughter.) 

Even  statesmen,  it  appears,  sometimes  make  mistakes.  There  are 
some  very  fine  harbors  on  the  Pacific  Coast,  and  the  whole  section 
west  of  the  Missouri  River  certainly  has  developed  into  a  very  mar- 
velous country. 

THE    MARTYRDOM    AND   SUBSEQUENT   EVENTS. 

Joseph  Smith  had  foreseen  that  his  people  would  be  forced  again 
to  leave  their  homes,  and,  as  I  say,  he  had  started  West  with  a  picked 
body  of  men  to  find  a  place  of  refuge.  But  some  of  the  people  in 
Nauvoo  accused  him  of  running  away  and  deserting  his  flock.  He  there- 
upon returned  to  Nauvoo,  remarking  that  if  his  life  was  of  no  value  to 
his  people,  it  was  of  no  value  to  him.  He  surrendered  to  the  Governor 
of  the  State  of  Illinois.  He,  with  his  brother,  Hyrum  Smith,  John 
Taylor,  and  Willard  Richards,  was  incarcerated  in  Carthage  jail,  with 
a  pledge  of  protection  from  the  Governor.  On  his  way  to  Carthage 
he  said :  "I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter ;  but  I  am  calm  as  a 
summer's  morning ;  I  have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  towards  God 
and  towards  all  men.  I  shall  die  innocent,  and  it  shall  yet  be  said  of 
me,  'he  was  murdered  in  cold  blood.'  "  He  and  his  brother  were 
killed  by  a  mob.  John  Taylor,  who  afterwards  became  president  of 
the  Church,  received  four  gunshot  wounds  and  carried  in  his  body  some 
of  the  rifle-balls  to  his  grave.  Brigham  Young,  as  leader  of  the  stricken 
people,  then  entered  into  an  agreement  that  the  latter  would  move  to 
the  West.  He,  with  others,  began  exploring  the  country,  and  the  mi- 
gration started.  Quite  a  number  of  the  people  located  at  Council 
Bluffs ;  but  that  winter,  after  many  of  the  able-bodied  men  had  left,  the 
mob  drove  the  remnant  of  the  "Mormon"  people  from  their  beloved  city 
of  Nauvoo,  which  was  then  the  largest  city  in  the  State  of  Illinois.  It 
was  a  beautiful  and  populous  town  of  twenty  thousand  souls  when  Chi- 
cago was  a  mere  trading  post ;  and  they  deserted  that  city  willingly, 
because  they  had  to.  (Laughter.)  The  first  detachments  of  the  people 
crossed  the  Mississippi  River  on  the  ice,  in  the  dead  of  winter,  and 
during  that  terrible  night  nine  babies  were  born  with  no  shelter  save  the 
rude  tents  and  wagon  covers  under  which  their  mothers  were  huddled. 
No  tongue  can  tell,  no  pen  can  paint  the  sufferings  and  the  hardships  of 
the  "Mormon"  people  in  these  drivings  from  Missouri  and  Illinois. 

They  next  located  at  Council  Bluffs,  moved  across  the  river  and 
built  Winter  Quarters,  now  known  as  Florence.  In  the  meantime, 
a  state  of  war  had  grown  out  of  difficulties  between  the  United  States 
and  Mexico,  and  a  government  recruiting  officer  was  sent  to  the  "Mor- 
mon" camps  at  Council  Bluffs  soliciting  five  hundred  men  for  mili- 
tary service  to  march  against  Mexico.  The  leaders  of  our  people  had 
previously  petitioned  the  President  of  the  United  States,  Martin  Van 
Buren,  for  a  redress  of  wrongs,  only  to  have  the  President  announce: 
"Your  cause  is  just,  but  T  can  do  nothing  for  you,"  a  pusillanimous 


208  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

remark,  to  say  the  least.  Yet  now  five  hundred  men  were  demanded' 
from  whom  ?  From  a  people  who  were  being  expatriated,  a  people  who 
had  been  driven  from  Missouri  under  circumstances  of  indescribable 
cruelty,  a  people  who  had  also  just  been  expelled  from  Illinois  in  the 
dead  of  winter.  Yet  Brigham  Young  said:  "Captain  Allen,  you 
shall  have  your  battalion ;  and  if  we  haven't  enough  young  men,  we  will 
give  you  old  men."  An  American  flag  was  hoisted,  recruiting  started, 
and  in  three  days  the  five  hundred  men  were  furnished.  I  maintain 
that  you  will  search  the  ..history  of  the  world  in  vain  to  find  elsewhere 
such  evidence  of  patriotism !  In  spite  of  their  expatriation,  in  spite  of 
the  fact  that  in  order  to  save  their  lives  they  had  been  compelled 
to  abandon  and  flee  from  their  homes,  they  responded  to  the  call  of  their 
country.  And  as  to  the  nature  of  the  service  rendered  by  the  heroic  vol- 
unteers, the  gallant  commander,  Lieutenant  Colonel  St.  George  Cooke, 
said  in  his  general  order  announcing  the  completion  of  their  march : 

"History  may  be  searched  in  vain  for  an  equal  march  of  infantry. 
Half  of  it  has  been  through  a  wilderness  where  nothing  but  savages  and 
wild  beasts  are  found ;  or  deserts  where,  for  want  of  water,  there  is 
no  living  creature.  There,  with  almost  hopeless  labor,  we  have  dug 
deep  wells  which  the  future  traveler  will  enjoy.  Without  a  guide  Who 
had  traversed  them,  we  have  ventured  into  trackless  tablelands  where 
water  was  not  found  for  several  marches.  With  crowbar  and  pick  and 
axe  in  hand,  we  have  worked  our  way  over  mountains  which  seemed 
to  defy  aught  save  the  wild  goat,  and  hewed  a  passage  through  a  chasm 
of  living  rock  more  narrow  than  our  wagons." 

I  might  incidentally  remark,  as  a  further  instance  of  the  service 
of  the  Mormon  Battalion  in  making  the  West,  that  some  of  its  members 
were  among  the  discoverers  of  gold  in  California,  which!  subsequently 
enriched  our  nation  many  millions  of  dollars. 

THE   GREAT    MIGRATION    TO   UTAH. 

Crossing  to  the  west  bank  of  the  Missouri  River,  as  I  have  said, 
the  "Mormon"  camps  established  Winter  Quarters,  and  here  many 
log  houses  were  built,  and  a  frontier  settlement  was  made.  In  this 
place  Brigham  Young  planted  a  cottonwood  tree,  under  which  I  had 
the  honor  of  standing  two  weeks  ago  last  Sunday,  with  some  of  my 
companions ;  and  a  snapshot  was  taken  of  us,  which  by  the  way  did 
not  come  out  very  well.  (I  hope  we  did  not  spoil  the  camera.)  It  is  a 
large  tree,  with  its  branches  extending  a  hundred  feet,  and  its  trunk 
about  twenty  feet  in  circumference.  It  is  distinctive,  historically  and 
otherwise,  among  all  the  other  trees  in  the  park  where  it  stands.  A 
short  distance  from  that  spot  many  hundreds  of  the  early  "Mormons" 
are  buried ;  and  from  there,  in  1847,  Brigham  Young  started  with  his 
pioneer  company  of  143  men,  three  women,  and  two  children  to  explore 
the  unknown  West,  and  find  an  abiding  place  for  the  homeless  people. 

I  shall  not  relate  the  many  incidents  of  peril  and  anxiety  on  that 
memorable  trip,  which  required  many  weary  weeks  in  traveling  from 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  209 

the  Missouri  River  to  the  Salt  Lake  Valley,  which  was  then  prac- 
tically an  unknown  country.  Nor  was  the  prospect  pleasing  when  they 
reached  the  spot  where  our  chief  city  now  stands.  "Weary  and  worn 
as  I  am,"  said  one  of  the  three  women,  "I  would  gladly  go  another  thou- 
sand miles  rather  than  stay  in  such  a  desolate  place ;"  and  another,  her 
sister,  echoed  the  same  sentiment.  But  Brigham  Young  had  said,  "This 
is  the  place,"  asserting  that  he  had  seen  the  valley  in  vision  some  time 
before,  and  that  it  was  the  spot  where  the  Latter-day  Saints  should  lo- 
cate. He  had  been  taken  sick  just  before  reaching  the  valley,  and  a 
small  advance  company  was  sent  out  two  days  ahead  of  the  main 
body  of  pioneers  to  look  over  the  country  and  if  possible  prepare  a  bit 
of  land  for  planting.  They  had  brought  some  plows,  but  found  the 
ground  so  hard  that  several  plowshares  were  broken.  They  finally 
turned  the  water  of  a  small  stream  on  the  parched  and  baked  soil,  and 
the  first  day  succeeded  in  planting  a  few  acres  of  crops.  So  far  as  I 
know,  this  was  the  beginning  of  that  system  of  irrigation  which  has 
meant  so  much  in  the  development  of  the  United  States  of  America,  a 
system  which  has  reclaimed  millions  upon  millions  of  acres  of  land,  and 
has  led  to  the,  expenditure  of  very  many  millions  of  dollars  by  the  gov- 
ernment in  reclamation  projects  in  Idaho,  Arizona,  Utah,  and  other 
sections  of  the  country. 

The  pioneer  company  later  returned  to  Winter  Quarters,  where  in 
the  meantime  the  work  of  outfitting  and  preparing  for  the  general 
migration  to  the  West  had  gone  on  apace.  Large  trains  of  ox  teams 
were  organized  that  took  several  months  to  cross  the  plains.  My  own 
father  had  the  privilege  of  commanding  one  of  those  companies — the 
third  company  of  emigrants  that  went  to  Utah  that  first  season ;  and  by 
the  fall  of  1847,  there  were  1600  people  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley.  They 
had  built  a  log  fort  with  extensions,  and  a  number  of  log  houses.  Their 
industry  was  prospectively  to  be  rewarded  with  fruitful  harvests  in 
1848,  when  myriads  of  crickets  appeared,  devouring  everything  before 
them.  Immigration  had  continued  meanwhile,  and  now  the  people 
felt  that  ruin  and  starvation  stared  them  in  the  face,  because  they 
were  a  thousand  miles  from  anywhere,  so  to  speak,  and  it  appeared  that 
the  crops  would  be  utterly  lost  in  spite  of  all  they  could  do.  Unless  that 
harvest  could  be  saved,  there  was  nothing  for  them  to  look  forward  to 
but  absolute  starvation.  As  a  people  they  believe  God  came  to  their 
rescue;  that  it  was  His  providence  that  from  the  islands  in  the  Great 
Salt  Lake  the  flocks  of  gulls  came  which  devoured  the  crickets.  In 
commemoration  of  this  deliverance  there  has  since  been  erected  a 
very  beautiful  monument,  and  I  shall  take  occasion  to  get  from  Secre- 
tary Tufts  a  list  of  the  members  of  your  club,  and  when  I  return  home 
will  mail  to  each  of  you  a  booklet  entitled  "Utah,"  on  the  front  cover  of 
which  is  a  picture  of  the  monument,  erected  in  remembrance  of  the 
mercy  of  God  in  saving  from  starvation  the  many  hundreds  of  early 
pioneers  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley.  Our  Legislature  has  enacted  a  law 
prohibiting  the  killing  of  gulls  :  and  the  birds  are  so  tame  that  they  will 


210  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

come  into  our  fields,  and  follow  the  plowman  to  feast  on  the  worms 
that  are  uncovered  by  his  furrow. 

PIONEERING    THE    INTERMOUNTAIN    COUNTRY. 

In  the  next  few  years  the  "Mormons"  redeemed  the  valleys  for 
a  hundred  miles  north  and  three  hundred  and  fifty  miles  to  the  south. 
Originally,  Utah  included  all  of  the  present  State  of  Utah,  all  of  Ne- 
vada, part  iof  Colorado,  and  part  of  Wyoming  and  Idaho ;  but  pieces 
have  been  sliced  off  from  time  to  time,  until  it  is  small  in  area 
compared  with  what  it  was  in  the  early  days,  perhaps  no  more  than  one- 
half  its  original  size. 

The  "Mormon"  people  have  been  not  only  the  pioneers  in  settle- 
ment and  in  irrigation  and  reclamation  in  Utah,  but  they  were  the  pio- 
neers also  in  Idaho.  A  little  settlement  that  was  once  in  Utah  is  now 
in  Idaho,  and  it  is  the  city  where  the  pioneers  of  the1  Gem  state  meet 
once  a  year  to  celebrate  "Idaho  Day,"  being  the  starting  point  of  civi- 
lization in  that  section.  In  the  other  direction,  the  San  Luis  Valley  in 
Colorado  was  considered  altogether  too  high  in  elevation  to  be  of  any 
value  for  agriculture  until  a  "Mormon"  colony  went  there  and  re- 
claimed the  locality.  They  proved  that  it  was  a  good  country  for 
.raising  crops,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  it  was  seven  thousand  feet 
in  elevation.  The  "Mormons"  were  also  among  the  very  first  pioneers 
to  go  into  Arizona.  There  was  a  great  deal  of  prejudice  against 
them,  but  it  has  practically  all  disappeared.  Today  there  is  perhaps  a 
better  feeling  toward  our  people  in  Arizona  than  in  any  other  section 
in  which  they  are  located.  As  an  illustration  of  the  goodwill  existing 
there  regarding  the  "Mormon"  people :  when  a  novelist  by  the  name 
of  Winifred  Graham  came  over  here  from  England,  telling  a  lot  of 
unconscionable  lies  about  the  "Mormons,"  a  Senator  from  Arizona 
stood  up  in  the  Senate  of  the  United  States  and  voluntarily  and 
emphatically  branded  her  statements  as  the  falsehoods  which  they  were. 
The  ex-Governor  of  the  state  also  said  that  no  better  class  of  people 
could  be  found  anywhere  than  the  "Mormons"  of  Arizona,  adding  that 
in  one  respect  they  were  being  robbed  of  between  2500  and  3000  per 
cent  of  a  certain  class  of  taxes  in  Arizona — because,  according  to  popu- 
lation, they  were  entitled  to  have  twenty-five  or  thirty  inmates  in  the 
state  penitentiary,  and  they  had  only  one  (laughter)  ;  also)  that  we  were 
entitled  to  700  or  800  per  cent  more  of  the  taxes  set  aside  fon  the  sup- 
port of  the  insane,  being  entitled,  according  to  population,  to  seven 
or  eight  inmates  in  the  insane  asylum,  whereas  we  had  none. 

We  ask  people  to  judge  us  by  the  standard  laid  down  by  our 
Savior :  "By  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them."  I  was  reading  Jast 
Saturday,  in  Chicago,  from  Phil  Robinson's  book,  Sinners  and  Saints, 
in  which  he  states  that  he  is  at  the  defiance  of  any  man  to  find  a  single 
book,  with  one  exception,  written  on  the  "Mormon"  question,  that  is  not 
absolutelv  untrue,  because  practically  all  the  books  on  that  subject  were 
written  by  the  enemies  of  our  people,  and  are  unfair.     In  the  book  I 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  211 

refer  to,  Mr.  Robinson  gives  the  "Mormons"  a  fine  certificate  of  char- 
acter, and  among  other  things  says  that  he  nearly  choked  to  death  for 
"a  d'rink"  among  the  "Mormons"  while  traveling  350  miles  to  the  south 
and  a  hundred-odd  miles  to  the  north,  until  after  inquiring  for  a  "back- 
slider" he  was  successful  in  finding  a  demijohn.  After  that  he  got  along 
very  well.  He  said  he  had  always  supposed  water  was  for  the  cleans- 
ing of  the  body  until  he  arrived  in  Utah,  and  there  he  found  it  was 
used  for  drinking  purposes.  Mr.  Robinson  also  refers  to  the  fact  that 
although  we  had  80-odd  per  cent  of  the  population  in  Utah,  the  re- 
maining 17'  per  cent  (as  I  recall)  furnished  80  per  cent  of  the  inmates 
of  the  territorial  penitentiary. 

The  first  great  commandment  is  to  "multiply  and  replenish  the 
earth;"  and  Utah's  best  crop  is  babies.  (Laughter.)  We  feel  very 
proud  of  the  record  of  our  people  in  that  particular.  We  can  not  be- 
gin to  compare  with  other  people  in  furnishing  divorces. 

Before  we  divided  on  party  lines  in  Utah  as  Democrats  and  Re- 
publicans, I  heard  a  Congressman  say,  while  making  a  campaign 
speech  in  Salt  Lake  City,  that  hanging  on  the  wall  in  one  of  the  houses 
of  Congress  in  Washington  there  was  a  map  showing  the  states  and 
territories  of  the  Union.  The  map  was  black  originally,  but  as  educa- 
tion grew,  it  was  painted  white;  and  he  stated  that  there  were  only 
four  whiter  spots  upon  that  map  than  Utah.  At  that  time  Utah  was 
a  territory  and  we  had  no  public  lands  to  sell  to  help  us  in  education ; 
we  had  forged  to  the  front  without  receiving  one  single,  solitary  dollar 
from  the  sale  of  public  lands  from  the  United  States.  We  have  been 
branded  as  an  ignorant  lot,  and  yet  for  ninety-odd  years  we  have 
been  sending  our  young  men  to  Harvard  and  other  universities  to  get 
an  education,  and  they  have  made  a  record  of  which  we  are  proud. 
While  I  was  presiding  over  the  European  mission  of  our  Church,  I 
read  in  the  newspapers  that  we  have  overtaken  and  equalled  one  of  the 
states  in  the  Union  for  second  place  in  literacy.  Doctor  Winship,  one 
of  the  great  educators  of  our  country,  has  given  us  credit,  in  recent 
lectures,  for  having  the  finest  laws  on  education  of  any  state  or  terri- 
tory in  the  Union. 

TEMPLE   BUILDING    AND    HOME    INDUSTRY. 

As  I  have  already  told  you,  the  early  "Mormons"  erected  a  temple 
soon  after  they  reached  Ohio,. and  considering  the  small  number  of 
people  that  were  there,  it  was  a  wonderful  accomplishment.  They  erect- 
ed a  large  temple  at  Nauvoo,  which  was  destroyed  by  the  mob,  after 
the  expulsion  of  the  people.  The  second  day,  after  the  arrival  of  the 
pioneers  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley,  Brigham  Young  walked  to  the  spot 
where  the  great  temple  was  later  erected,  drove  his  cane  into  the 
ground,  and  said,  "Here  we  will  build  the  Temple  of  our  God."  The 
corners  were  laid  forty  years,  to  a  day,  before  the  temple  was  com- 
pleted. For  forty  long  years  the  people  contributed  of  their  means 
toward  the  erection  of  that  temple.    As  a'  child  I  contributed  fifty  cents 


212  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

a  month ;  later  as  a  boy  I  gave  a  dollar  a  month,  then  five  dollars, 
and  finally  made  a  contribution  of  several  thousand  dollars  to  aid  in  its 
completion.  In  the  meantime  the  pioneers  were  redeeming  a  country 
which  was  considered  absolutely  worthless  before  they  undertook  its 
reclamation.  The  noted  trapper,  Jim  Bridger,  had  told  Brigham 
Young  and  his  pioneer  company  that  he  would  give  one  thousand  dol- 
lars for  the  first  ear  of  corn  ripened  in  the  Salt  Lake  Valley;  it  was 
quite  generally  considered  a  worthless  wilderness.  Yet,  when  years 
later  the  United  States  government  offered  a  handsome  prize  for  the 
best  five  acres  of  wheat  raised  in  any  part  of  the  United  States,  Salt 
Lake  Valley  carried  off  the  prize.  The  temple  which,  as  I  have  said, 
was  forty  years  in  building  was  erected  at  a  cost  of  over  four  millions 
of  dollars.  I  imagine  it  could  be  built  today,  even  at  the  high  prices  of 
labor  and  material,  for  a  million  and  a  half.  But  in  those  days  it  took 
an  ox  team  several  days  to  go  to  the  mountains  and  bring  one  solitary 
stone  for  the  structure.  It  took  several  weeks  of  work  by 
hand  to  cut  that  stone.  The  footings  of  the  building  are 
sixteen  feet ;  the  walls  are  eight  feet  thick ;  and  it  was 
built,  as  Brigham  Young  advised  everybody  to  build,  "to  last  a 
thousand  years."  He  erected,  at  that  early  day,  a  theatre  in  Salt  Lake 
which  still  stands,  in  which  all  of  the  leading  companies  that  visit 
Utah  put  on  their  plays.  It'  was  built  when  I  was  a  child.  Every  nail 
in  it  was  carried  a  thousand  miles  from  the  frontiers  at  the  Missouri 
River,  when  nails  were  a  dollar  a  pound.  Those  were  the  days  when 
sugar  was  selling  at  one  hundred  one  dollars  a  bag — one  hundred  for 
the  sugar  and  one  dollar  for  the  sack.  When  people  went  to  the  theatre 
they  took  their  molasses  in  a  can,  or  brought  a  squash  or  something 
else  to  pay  the  price  of  admission.  Fortunately  there  was  no  war  tax ; 
for  they  could  not  have  paid  it ;  they  had  no  money.  Within  twenty 
years  after  the  arrival  of  the  piooners,  the  "Mormon"  Tabernacle  was 
built,  with  a  seating  capacity  of  eight  thousand.  On  special  occasions, 
when  the  building  has  been  crowded,  more  than  ten  thousand  people 
have  been  counted.  The  Tabernacle  was  erected  without  the  use 
of  nails,  the  roof  being  pinned  together  with  wooden  pins  and  tied  with 
rawhide  thongs.  At  the  time  of  its  completion,  although  a  thousand 
miles  from  civilization,  it  was  the  largest  auditorium  in  the  United 
States  of  America  without  a  center  support  to  the  roof ;  and  it  is  today 
the  largest  except  where  steel  girders  have  been  used  to  support  the 
roof. 

A  concert  was  given  in  the  building,  by  our  Tabernacle  Choir  of 
five  hundred  voices,  for  the  relief  of  the  sufferers  from  the  Johnstown 
flood.  The  net  receipts,  at  a  $1  a  seat,  amounted  to  $7500,  which 
was  remitted  to  the  sufferers.  Yet  under  those  conditions  our  people 
built  some  splendid  irrigation  projects.  Some  of  them  would  cost 
today  millions  upon  millions  of  dollars,  and  they  were  built  by  the  co- 
operative labor  of  the  people  and  the  exchange  of  their  products.  Brig- 
ham Young  taught  the  people  to  sustain  home  manufacture,  to  be  eco- 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  213 

nomical,  to  avoid  extravagant  habits,  and  not  think  of  getting  this, 
that,  and  the  other  which  would  not  add  to  any  actual  comfort.  In  those 
days  we  were  clothed  in  what  was  known  as  "homespun."  In  nearly 
every  home  the  wife  would  take  the  wool  and  prepare  it  for  spinning, 
she  would  have  in  her  home  a  loom  on  which  she  would  weave  the  rag 
carpets.  When  we  built  a  canal,  the  only  money  we  needed  was  for 
the  purchase  of  plows  and  scrapers  and  for  powder  to  blast  the  rocks. 
Most  of  our  early,  great  enterprises  were  made  possible  by  co-operative 
labor.  I  know  of  one  little  canal  on  which  the  settlers  worked  each 
winter  for  twelve  long  years,  and  reclaimed  the  ground  where  now 
stands  a  little  settlement  of  eight  hundred  or  a  thousand  people.  The 
accomplishments  of  Utah  have  been  brought  about  by  pulling  together, 
by  "teamwork,"  by  absolute  unity,  and  co-operation,  which  I  believe 
existed  there  to  a  greater  extent  than  in  any  other  community. 

Brigham  Young  has  the  honor  of  having  established  in  Utah  the 
first  department  store  in  our  country — Zion's  Co-operative  Mercantile 
Institution,  of  which  I  am  now  president.  This  list  of  companies 
(pointing  to  program)  of  which  I  am  credited  with  being  president 
fails  to  mention  those  which  come  my  way  accidentally,  one  may  say, 
because  I  became  president  of  the  Church,  all  of  which  are  of  more 
importance  than  the  ones  on  the  list  here  published.  One  of  the  insti- 
tutions over  which  I  have  the  honor  to  preside,  and  over  which  my 
predecessors  from  Brigham  Young  to  Joseph  F.  Smith  have  presided, 
is  Zion's  Co-operative  Mercantile  Institution,  established  in  early  days 
to  prevent  excessive  profits  and  to  protect  the  people  by  giving  them 
fair  goods  at  a  fair  profit.  That  institution  now  does  a  business  of 
some  twelve  million  dollars  a  year. 

ESTABLISHING    BEET-SUGAR     INDUSTRY. 

Another  institution  'that  I  have  the  honor  of  presiding  over  is  the 
Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company.  I  wish  to  say  to  you  gentlemen  here 
that  we  have  the  honor  of  having  erected  the  first  beet-sugar  factory 
ever  built  in  the  United  States  of  America  with  American  machinery. 
There  had  been  several  factories  built  with  imported  machinery ;  in 
fact,  away  back  in  1862,  the  "Mormons"  sent  John  Taylor  (who  after- 
wards became  president  of  the  Church)  to  France  to  bring  machinery 
from  there  to  try  to  establish  the  beet-sugar  industry  in  the  Great  Basin. 
To  my  mind,  perhaps  one  of  the  most  substantial  illustrations  of  the 
loyalty  and  of  the  co-operative  work  of  the  "Mormon"  people  is  seen 
in  the  following:  In  1891  when  Baring  Brothers  failed  in  London, 
with  their  investments  largely  in  the  Argentine  Republic,  that  failure 
reached  clear  out  to  Salt  Lake  City ;  and  as  there  was  very  little  money 
in  the  country  it  made  it  very  hard  indeed  for  our  people.  Many  of  those 
who  had  subscribed  for  stock  in  the  sugar  company  were  unable  to  pay 
their  subscription ;  but  the  president  of  the  Church  said' :  "We  will  build 
that  factory  if  it  breaks  the  credit  of  the  Church  itself ;  we  must  build 
it,  because  it  will  make  an  increased  product  from  the  soil  and  there- 


214  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

fore  be  beneficial  to  the  people."  The  president  sent  me  East,  West, 
North  and  South,  all  through  the  country,  as  his  agent,  to  borrow  money 
with  which  to  build  that  factory.  After  we  had  failed  in  New  York 
and  other  Eastern  centers  to  get  money  to  finish  it,  I  went  to  San 
Francisco  and  appealed  to  Henry  Wadsworth,  then  manager  of  the 
Wells  Fargo  Bank,  to  loan  the  last  hundred  thousand  dollars  that 
we  needed.  In  my  appeal  I  said  to  him :  "Mr.  Wadsworth,  when  you 
were  in  Salt  Lake  you  believed  in  me  as  a  boy  when  I  worked  for  you ; 
you  gave  me  $100  as  a  New  Year's  present,  and  stated  that  no  one 
else  in  the  bank  should  have  a  dollar  because  all  the  others  watched 
the  clock,  to  see  how  soon  they  could  get  out  of  the  front  door  after 
3  o'clock,  whereas  I  came  back  occasionally  and  worked  at  night.  Now 
that  I  am  one  of  the  leading  officials  of  the  'Mormon'  Church  I  ask 
you  to  believe  in  me  and  to  furnish  the  hundred  thousand'  dollars  neces- 
sary to  complete  this  factory.  I  have  just  succeeded  in  getting  fifty 
thousand  dollars  from  the  Fireman's  Fund  Insurance  Company  of 
San  Francisco ;  they  know  me  well.  But  I  must  have  a  hundred 
thousand  dollars  more,  and  I  must  have  it  from  you."  I  pleaded  with 
him  to  deposit  the  money  in  Zion's  Savings  Bank  and  Trust  Company, 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  told  him  we  could  convince  that  bank  that  our 
securities  were  good.  His  reply  was  that  "banks  were  failing  every- 
where and  he  could  not  let  me  have  the  money."  Finally  I  said :  "Mr. 
Wadsworth,  the  beet-sugar  industry  must  and  shall  be  established.  I 
have  no  authority  to  offer  you  the  note  of  the  Church,  but  I  pledge  you 
four  notes  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints — twenty- 
five  thousand  due  in  six  months,  twenty-five  thousand  in  a  year,  twenty- 
five  thousand  in  eighteen  months,  and  twenty-five  thousand  in  two  years, 
with  twenty  indorsers,  individually  and  severally  liable  for  the  ob- 
ligation ;  you  to  write  out  twenty-five  names  of  the  strongest  financial 
'Mormon'  men  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  I  will  guarantee  to  get  twenty 
indorsers  out  of  the  twenty-five."  He  said :  "My  boy,  that  is  an  im- 
possibility ;  no  twenty  men  on  earth  would  guarantee,  individually  and 
collectively,  one  hundred  thousand  dollars  for  any  church."  "Well," 
I  replied,  "we  are  a  little  different  from  any  other  church ;  I  will  get 
you  the  notes  and  indorsers  all  right."  He  insisted  that  it  could  not 
be  done.  "Then  you  don't  need  to  give  me  the  money,"  I  said  at  last  ; 
"all  I  ask  is  that  you  give  me  the  opportunity."  Then  he  said :  "I  will 
go  you  one  better ;  I  will  write  thirty  names,  and  if  you  can  get  any 
twenty  out  of  the  thirty,  it  will  be  satisfactory,  and  you  can  have  your 
money."  He  wrote  five  or  six  names,  tore  up  the  paper,  and  said: 
"Heber,  you  were  my  office  boy  fifteen  years  ago.  Many  a  man  has 
gone  broke  in  fifteen  years.  I  will  just  write  up  to  my  successor  in 
Salt  Lake  and  tell  him  to  write  the  names."  When  I  got  back  home, 
his  successor  wrote  a  list  of  names,  and  as  he  looked  at  them  he  said : 
"Those  names  remind  me  of  an  incident  in  early  days  in  a  California 
mining  camp.  There  was  a  saloon-keeper  who  had  on  his  front  door 
a  list  of  names  of  the  people  who  owed  him  for  whisky.     One  day  his 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  215 

wife  in  a  streak  of  cleanliness  scrubbed  the  floor  and  even  washed  the 
door,  and  when  the  man  discovered  it  he  exclaimed :  'Good  heavens ! 
you  have  ruined  me ;  give  me  a  pencil  quick,  and  maybe  I  can  still  make 
them  out.'  Then  he  studied  out  the  names  as  best  he  could,  and  rewrote 
them,  and  stood  and  looked  at  the  list.  You  know  some  people  say  that 
'damn'  is  only  emphasis ;  and  with  emphasis  he  said :  'That  is  the  best 

lot  of ■  names  that  was  ever  on  that  door.'  "     So  this  banker  said : 

"This  is  the  best  lot  of  names  I  ever  saw." 

a  financier's  faith  and  aid. 

I  got  twenty- four  indorsers  out  of  the  thirty  men  on  his  list ;  three 
of  the  thirty  were  out  of  town,  and  one  man  volunteered  to  sign  whose 
name  was  not  on  the  list,  but  who  happened  to  hear  two  of  the  gentle- 
men that  were  on  the  list  refusing  to  sign  the  note,  these  taking  the 
ground  that  it  was  not  good  morals  for  a  church  to  borrow  money  to 
loan  to  a  private  corporation.  I  said  to  them :  "I  will  agree,  when  you  and 
I  meet  the  Lord,  if  we  ever  do,  to  absolve  you  from  all  trouble  if  you 
will  put  your  name  on  the  back  of  these  notes.  (Laughter.)  It  will 
be  time  enough  for  you,  or  me,  to  decide  the  morals  of  the  question 
when  we  become  members  of  the  presidency  of  the  Church.  The  presi- 
dency have  signed  the  notes,  and  they  will  have  to  answer  to  the  Lord 
for  the  moral  part  of  it.  Will  you  sign  the  notes,  or  will  you  not?" 
They  declined.  Then  I  had  this  conversation  with  the  voluntary 
signer  to  whom  I  have  referred.  He  lived  in  Ogden  and  was  worth 
more  than  any  ten  men  who  had  signed  the  note — when  he  died  his  es- 
tate was  worth  fifteen  to  twenty  millions  of  dollars.  He  had  been 
writing  a  letter  and  after  the  two  men  declined,  he  said:  "Heber,  I 
have  heard  your  story.  Is  my  name  on  the  list?"  "No,"  I  replied, 
"there  are  only  Salt  Lake  men  on  the  list."  He  said  he  would  like 
to  look  at  the  notes.  I  handed  them  to  him,  and  he  wrote  his  name 
on  the  back  of  each  one  without  even  reading  the  notes.  He  handed 
them  back,  with  the  remark :  "I  don't  think  my  name  will  hurt  them." 
Then  he  said  to  me :  "Heber,  tell  the  president  of  the  Church  that  any 
time  he  wishes  those  notes  paid,  if  he  will  notify  David  Eccles  thirty 
days  ahead: — I  always  keep  from  one  to  three  hundred  thousand  dol- 
lars in  bank,  on  certificates  of  deposit,  so  that  on  thirty  days'  notice  I 
can  draw  it  out — I  will  be  glad  to  pay  these  notes,  and  the  Church 
can  pay  me  in  one  year,  or  five  years,  or  ten  years,  or  when  convenient." 
Maybe  you  think  I  did  not  want  to  hug  this  man  about  that  time. 
( Laughter. ) 

Then  Mr.  Eccles  added :  "Tell  the  president  of  the  Church  that 
if  he  wants  my  name  on  another  hundred  thousand  dollars  of  notes,  just 
to  send  you  up  to  Ogden.  You  have  never  been  in  my  house.  I  will 
give  you  supper,  bed  and  breakfast ;  and  we  have  pen  and  ink."  By 
the  way,  I  went  up  there  some  time  later,  and  got  his  signature  for 
another  $100,000.  (Laughter).  When  he  told  me  the  street  on  which 
he  lived,  I  said :    "Don't  tell  me  what  street  you  live  on.     Step  across 


216  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

the  road  to  my  office  and  I  will  show  you,  a  plat  of  your  house.  I 
have  it  insured."     (Laughter.) 

I  have  referred  to  some  of  the  buildings  erected  by  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  among  them  the  great  Salt  Lake  Temple.  When  I  was  a 
boy  they  erected  a  temple  also  at  St.  George,  three  hundred  fifty  miles 
south  of  Salt  Lake  City,  at  a  cost  of  several  hundred  thousand  dol- 
lars. Later,  when  I  was  a  young  man  of  twenty-six,  they  completed' 
a  temple  in  Logan,  costing  several  hundred  thousand  dollars.  Some 
three  or  four  years  later  they  erected  another  temple,  just  as  large,  at 
Manti,  Utah.  Last  November,  on  my  birthday,  I  was  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands  and  dedicated  a  temple  there  which  cost  over  two  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars.  This  coming  summer  we  will  dedicate,  in  Canada,  a 
temple  costing  over  six  hundred  thousand  dollars.  We  have  spent 
millions  of  dollars  in  the  erection  of  ward  chapels  and  district  meeting 
houses,  also  millions  of  dollars  in  erecting  Church-school  buildings, 
from  Canada  to  Mexico.  During  the  present  year  we  will  supply,  for 
maintenance  of  Church  schools  alone — to  say  nothing  of  erection  of 
buildings — three-quarters  of  a  million  dollars. 

Time  will  not  permit  me  to  speak  in  detail  of  the  part  the  Church 
has  played  in  establishing  and  fostering  institutions  for  the  good  of  the 
people.  I  have  referred  to  Zion's  Co-operative  Mercantile  Institution 
and  to  the  beet-sugar  industry.  The  latter,  the  first  year  produced  only 
one  million  one  hundred  thousand  pounds  of  sugar.  The  Dyers  of 
Cleveland,  Ohio,  who  built  this  factory,  left  Utah  after  two  or  three 
years,  believing  that  the  sugar  industry  in  Utah  would  be  a  failure ; 
but  among  the  "Mormon"  people  there  is  a  considerable  percent  of 
Scotch,  Dutch  and  Scandinavian  blood,  and  they  are  somewhat  stubborn. 
You  know  it  is  said  there  is  nobody  on  earth  quite  as  stubborn  as  a 
Scotchman,  except  a  Dutchman.  I  happen  to  be  Scotch  on  my  father's 
side  and  Dutch  on  my  mother's.  Our  people  have  been  brought  together 
from  all  sections  of  the  country ;  in  fact,  we  have  converts  from  all  parts 
of  the  world.  They  did  not  allow  difficulties  to  discourage  them;  they 
did  not  give  up;  and  in  1920,  the  Utah-Idaho  Sugar  Company  will 
produce  over  two  million  one  hundred  thousand  bags  of  one  hundred 
pounds  each  of  sugar,  instead  of  one  million  one  hundred  thousand 
pounds  as  in  the  first  year.  There  are  other  sugar  companies  in  Utah 
and  Idaho  and  their  combined  product  will  be  equally  as  much  as  ours. 
So  that  the  beet-sugar  industry  in  the  intermountain  section  will  pro- 
duce this  year  over  four  million  bags  of  sugar.  It  is  true  that  Colorado 
has  outstripped  us  in  the  beet-sugar  production ;  but  the  original  people 
who  went  over  into  Colorado  and  built  the  first  factory,  received  their 
education    in  the  first  factory  built  in  Utah. 

"mormon"  pioneer  hymn. 

Some  day  a  story  will  be  written  about  the  sufferings  and  hard- 
ships of  the  "Mormon"  pioneers  while  crossing  the  plains.  I  feel 
disposed   to   tell   at   least   one   little   incident   in   connection   with   the 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  217 

pioneer  journey.  When  the  "Mormons"  were  at  Winter  Quarters, 
preparing  to  outfit  their  cmpanies  to  travel  by  ox  team  to  Utah,  Brig- 
ham  Young  turned  to  a  man  named  William  Clayton  and  said :  "Be- 
fore the  first  company  starts  for  Salt  Lake  Valley,  I  want  you  to  write 
a  hymn  that  will  inspire  and  comfort  and  cheer  and  bless  the  people 
on  their  long  journey."  William  Clayton  went  away,  and  is  reputed 
to  have  returned  the  same  day  with  what  is  known  as  the  great  "Mor- 
mon" pioneer  hymn. 

When  I  arrived  in  Liverpool  to  preside  over  the  European  mission, 
as  successor  to  the  father  of  Doctor  Richard  R.  Lyman,  who  is  here 
with  us  tonight  (a  professor  of  engineering  in  the  University 
of  Utah  and  graduate  from  Michigan  University),  President 
Lyman  said:  "We  will  sing  your  favorite  hymn  tonight." 
I  replied  that  I  hadn't  any  favorite.  "All  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  ought  to  have  a  favorite  song,"  said  President  Lyman;  "my 
favorite  is,  'School  thy  feelings,  O  my  brother ;  train  thy  warm  impulsive 
soul.'  The  favorite  of  my  bosom  friend  John  Henry  Smith,  is  'Up, 
awake,  ye  defenders  of  Zion.'  "  And  he  named  the  favorite  hymns  of 
about  a  dozen  of  our  Church  leaders.  Finally  I  said  :  "Hold  on ;  I  can 
choose  my  favorite  in  a  quarter  of  a  minute — 'Come,  come  ye  Saints.'  " 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear, 

But  with  joy  wend  your  way; 
Though  hard  to  you  this  journey  may  appear, 

Grace  shall  be  as  your  day. 
"Tis  better  far  for  us  to  strive 
Our  useless  cares  from  us  to  drive, 
Do  this,  and  joy  your  hearts  will  swell 
All  is  well!  All  is  well! 

Why  should  we  mourn,  or  think  our  lot  is  hard? 

'Tis  not  so;  all  is  right! 
Why  should  we  think  to  earn  a  great  reward, 

If  we  now  shun  the  fight? 
Gird  up  your  loins,  fresh  courage  take, 
Our  God  will  never  us  forsake; 
And  soon  we'll  have  this  tale  to  tell — 
All  is  well!    All  is  well! 

We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us  prepared, 

Far  away  in  the  West; 
Where  none  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make  afraid; 

There  the  Saints  will  be  blest. 
We'll  make  the  air  with  music  ring, 
Shout  praises  to  our  God  and  King; 
Above  the  rest  these  words  we'll  tell — 
All  is  well!  all  is  well! 

And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  all  is  well! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too; 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 
But  if  our  lives  are  spared  again 


218  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

To  see  the  Saints  their  rest  obtain, 
O,  how  we'll  make  this  chorus  swell — 
All  is  well!  All  is  well. 

PATHETIC   INCIDENT  OF  THE  PLAINS. 

One  day  my  father-in-law  said  to  me :  "Heber,  for  twenty  long 
years  I  have  listened  in  vain  for  our  choirs  to  sing  the  fourth  verse  of 
'Come,  come  ye  Saints.'  I  believe  the  rising  generation  know  noth- 
ing whatever  of  the  comfort  and  cheer  which  we  received,  while  cross- 
ing the  plains,  from  singing  that  pioneer  hymn  or  they  never  would  be 
guilty  of  leaving  off  the  fourth  verse,  which  we  looked  upon  as  a 
prayer."  In  one  of  the  revelations  to  our  Church  we  are  told  by  the 
Lord :  "For  my  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart,  yea,  the  song 
of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered  with  a 
blessing  upon  their  heads."  My  father-in-law  said  that  hymn  was  a 
blessing  to  every  one  who  sang  it,  and  particularly  the  last  verse,  which 
they  sang,  and  meant  every  word  of  it : 

And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through, 

Happy  day!  all  is  well! 
We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too; 

With  the  just  we  shall  dwell. 

Then  he  related  the  following  incident :  "One  of  the  men  in  our 
company  crossing  the  plains  was  late  coming  into  camp  one  night.  (In 
those  early  companies  they  traveled  a  day  and  a  half  or  two  days  apart, 
and  had  three  companies  going  practically  together,  so  that  in  case  of 
Indian  trouble,  having  a  few  horses  with  each  company,  men  with 
guns  could  go  back  or  forward.)  As  this  man  had  not  reached  camp, 
and  it  was  getting  late,  we  organized  a  volunteer  company  to  go  back 
to  see  if  he  had  been  waylaid  by  Indians.  Just  as  we  were  ready  to 
start,  we  saw  him  coming  in  the  distance.  He  explained  that  he  had 
been  sick,  and  as  he  happened  to  have  the  last  wagon  in  the  company, 
he  was  alone,  and  had  to  lie  down  by  the  road  for  a  few  hours'  rest.  He 
was  very  feeble  when  he  came  into  camp,  so  we  unyoked  his  oxen,  and 
got  his  supper  ready.  After  supper  he  sat  on  a  large  rock  by  the 
campfire  and  sang  'Come,  come  ye  Saints.'  It  was  the  rule  of  the 
camp  that  whenever  any  one  started  to  sing  this  pioneer  hymn,  all  the 
others  should  join  in  ;  but  in  this  case  it  happened  that  none  of  us  joined 
in  the  song.  When  he  had  finished,  I  looked  around  and  I  did  not 
see  a  dry  eye.  The  next  morning,  noticing  that  he  had  not  yoked  up  his 
oxen,  we  went  to  his  wagon  and  found  that  he  had  died  during  the 
night.  We  dug  a  shallow  grave,  buried  his  body,  and  to  the  head 
of  his  grave  we  rolled  the  stone  on  which  he  sat  the  night  before, 
while  singing,  'And  should  we  die  before  our  journey's  through,  happy 
day !  all  is  well !  We  then  are  free  from  toil  and  sorrow  too ;  with  the 
just  we  shall  dwell.'  "  My  father-in-law  started  to  tell  me  something 
else,  but  stopped  and  said:'  "Never  mind."  Years  later  the  Burlington 
railroad,   while   surveying  its   line  through   Nebraska  and   Wyoming, 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  219 

found  a  broken  wagon  tire  sticking  out  of  the  ground,  on  which  there 
had  been  chiseled  the  words :  "Rebecca  Winters ;  age  50  years."  The 
surveyors  with  delicate  kindness  and  consideration  went  back  three  or 
four  miles,  and  changed  the  line  of  the  road  in  order  to  miss  that 
lonely  grave.  The  railroad  company  fenced  the  spot  and  wrote  to  Utah 
to  find  out  if  any  one  knew  Rebecca  Winters.  She  was  my  wife's 
grandmother.  No  doubt  my  father-in-law  had  intended  to  tell  me 
during  the  conversation  above  quoted,  that  when  he  came  to  Salt 
Lake  City  from  his  home  in  another  part  of  the  territory,  to  meet  an 
immigrant  train  on  which  he  expected  to  find  his  beloved  mother,  he 
learned  that  she,  too,  had  died  before  her  journey  "was  through."  We 
have  erected  a  little  monument  at  the  grave,  inscribing  on  one  side 
the  history  of  Grandma  Winters,  and  on  the  other  side  the  fourth 
verse  of  "Come,  come  ye  Saints,  no  toil  nor  labor  fear." 

AS    COLONIZERS    AND    NATION-BUILDERS. 

It  is  this  spirit  among  the  "Mormon"  people,  of  co-operation, 
this  willingness  to  stand  one  by  the  other,  and  to  build  up  the  com- 
munities, that  has  helped  to  redeem  the  desert,  that  has  enabled 
them  to  make  a  record  in  Canada,  in  Mexico,  as  well  as  in  our  own 
country — that  has  given  them  the  splendid  standing  and  reputation 
they  enjoy.  They  were  regarded  as  the  foremost  colonists  of  all  Mexico, 
in  the  estimation  of  that  great  leader  of  the  republic,  the  late  General 
Diaz.  No  one  would  suspect  that  that  iron  character  would  be  guilty 
of  shedding  a  tear,  and  yet  on  the  last  trip  he  took  to  Chihuahua  to 
visit  the  state  fair,  when  he  saw  the  exhibit  of  industry  and  frugality, 
the  saddles  and  the  harness,  the  canned  fruit,  the  bottled  fruit,  the 
exhibits  from  the  "Mormon"  academy  and  the  pictures  of  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church  schools  in  Juarez,  the  old  warrior  wiped  his  eyes  and 
said :  "What  could  I  not  do  with  my  beloved  Mexico  if  I  only  had  more 
citizens  and  settlers  like  the  'Mormons.'  " 

Wherever  we  have  gone,  .we  have  made  a  success.  The  "Mormon" 
people  believe  in  education ;  they  believe  in  art,  in  literature,  in  science, 
in  advancement.  They  sent  their  tabernacle  choir  of  two  hundred  fifty 
voices  to  the  Chicago  Fair  in  1893,  and  won  the  second  prize  in  compe- 
tition with  all  the  world,  for  the  best  choir  of  that  number  of  voices.  The 
choir  that  won  first  prize,  I  understand,  had  hired  the  best  fifty  voices 
from  Wales  to  help  them  out.  (Laughter.)  We  put  in  a  little  protest, 
but  the  protest  did  not  work.  One  of  the  producers  of  operas,  con- 
certs, and  lectures,  a  great  theatrical  man  of  New  York,  told  me  that 
he  was  at  the  fair  and  heard  the  choirs  sing ;  and  his  verdict  was  that 
those  fifty  voices  did  not  help  the  other  choir,  their  strength  and  power 
destroyed  perfect  harmony ;  "but,  of  course,"  he  said,  "it  never  would 
have  done  to  give  you  miserable  'Mormons'  the  five-thousand-dollar 
prize,  although  if  I  had  been  the  judge  you  would  have  received'  it." 

Tt  was  my  intention  to  speak  from  notes  on  this  occasion,  because 
this  is  my  first  attempt  at  talking  to  an  audience  like  this.     The  first 


220  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

thing  I  had  intended  to  do  was  to  read  a  poem,  but  I  forgot  all  about 
it  until  I  looked  at  these  notes.  Now  that  I  see  my  time  is  about  up,  I 
am  going  to  close  with  what  should  have  been  the  beginning  and  use 
the  remaining  few  minutes  in  reading  this  poem  and  a  statement  re- 
garding Joseph  Smith.  Some  four  years  ago  I  happened  to  buy 
this  book,  and  since  then  I  have  given  away  over  five  hundred  copies. 
I  have  just  ordered  something  over  a  thousand  to  send  out,  at  the  ex- 
pense of  the  Church,  to  our  missionaries  in  the  United  States. 

I  am  very  grateful  to  be  here,  as  I  said  in  the  opening  of  my 
remarks,  and  I  hope  you  will  get  acquainted  with  me.  This  poem  is 
from  the  pen  of  Edgar  A.  Guest,  and  is  entitled : 

WHEN  YOU  GET  TO  KNOW  A  FELLOW. 

When  you  get  to  know  a  fellow,  know  his  joys  and  know  his  cares, 
When  you've  come  to  understand  him  and  the  burdens  that  he  bears, 
When  you've  learned  the  fight  he's  making  and  the  troubles  in  his  way, 
Then  you  find  that  he  is  different  than  you  thought  him  yesterday. 
Then  you  will  find  his  faults  are  trivial  and  there's  not  so  much  to  blame 
In  the  brother  that  you  jeered  at  when  you  only  knew  his  name. 

You  are  quick  to  see  the  blemish  in  the  distant  neighbor's  style, 

You  can  point  to  all  his  errors  and  may  sneer  at  him  the  While, 

And  your  prejudices  fatten  and  your  hates  more  violent  grow 

As  you  talk  about  the  failure  of  the  man  you  do  not  know, 

But  when  drawn  a  little  closer,  and  your  hands  and  shoulders  touch, 

You  find  the  traits  you  hated  really  don't  amount  to  much. 

When  you  get  to  know  a  fellow,  know  his  every  mood  and  whim, 

You  begin  to  find  the  texture  of  the  splendid  side  of  him; 

You  begin  to  understand  him,  and  you  cease  to  scoff  and  sneer, 

For  with  understanding  always  prejudices  disappear. 

You  begin  to  find  his  virtues  and  his  faults  you  cease  to  tell, 

For  you  seldom  hate  a  fellow  when  you  know  him  very  well. 

When  next  you  start  in  sneering  and  your  phrases  turn  to  blame, 
Know  more  of  him  you  censure  than  his  business  and  his  name; 
For  it's  likely  that  acquaintance  would  your  prejudice  dispel 
And  you'd  really  come  to  like  him  if  you  knew  him  very  well. 
Then    :his  faults  won't  really  matter,  for  you'll  find  a  lot  to  praise. 
When  you  get  to  know  a  fellow  and  you  understand  his  ways, 

(Applause.) 

TRIBUTE    TO    THE    FOUNDER. 

Brigham  Young,  some  day,  will  be  acknowledged  as  one  of  the 
greatest  leaders  and  pioneers  that  the  world  has  ever  known,  and  yet  I 
want  you  to  know  that  all  that  has  been  accomplished,  by  so-called 
"Mormonism"  and  by  our  people,  was  built  upon  the  broad  foundation 
laid  by  the  man  who  was  martyred  in  Carthage  jail.  He  gave  the 
Church  a  book  of  revelations  of  hundreds  of  pages.  Brigham  Young 
gave  but  one  revelation  pertaining  to  the  organizing  of  the  pioneer  com- 
panies.    John  Taylor  gave  but  one  revelation  during  his  presidency; 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  221 

and  his  successors  promulgated  no  new  revelations.  The  foundation 
was  laid  by  the  prophet  Joseph  Smith  for  all  that  has  been  accom- 
plished. He  gave  his  life,  in  Carthage  jail,  sealing  with  his  blood  the 
divinity  of  his  testimony,  and  credit  is  due  to  this  wonderful  leader 
for  what  has  been  accomplished.  I  desire  to  read  a  testimony  given 
by  Josiah  Quincy,  a  man  who  knew  Washington  and  others  of  the 
country's  great  founders,  a  man  who  was  once  Mayor  of  Boston,  and 
a  man  who  was  on  the  reception  committee  to  welcome  Lafayette 
when  he  came  over  here  from  France.  In  his  book,  Figures  of  the 
Past,  he  says : 

"It  is  by  no  means  improbable  that  some  future  textbook  for  the 
use  of  generations  yet  unborn  will  contain  a  question  something  like 
this :  What  historical  American  of  the  nineteenth  century  has  exerted 
the  most  powerful  influence  upon  the  destinies  of  his  countrymen? 
And  it  is  by  no  means  impossible  that  the  answer  to  that  interrogatory 
may  be  thus  written:  'Joseph  Smith,  the  'Mormon'  Prophet.'  And 
the  reply,  absurd  as  it  doubtless  seems  to  most  men  now  living,  may 
be  an  obvious  commonplace  to  their  descendants.  History  deals  in 
surprises  and  paradoxes  quite  as  startling  as  this.  The  man  who  es- 
established  a  religion  in  this  age  of  free  debate,  who  was  and  is  today 
accepted  by  hundreds  of  thousands  as  a  direct  emissary  from  the  Most 
High — such  a  rare  human  being  is  not  to  be  disposed  of  by  pelting  his 
memory  with  unsavory  epithets.  Fanatic,  impostor,  charlatan,  he 
may  have  been ;  but  these  hard  names  furnish  no  solution  to  the  prob- 
lem he  presents  to  us.  Fanatics  and  impostors  are  living  and  dying 
every  day,  and  their  memory  is  buried  with  them ;  but  the  wonderful 
influence  which  this  founder  of  a  religion  exerted  and  still  exerts 
throws  him  into  relief  before  us,  not  as  a  rogue  to  be  criminated,  but 
as  a  phenomenon  to  be  explained.  The  most  vital  questions  Americans 
are  asking  each  other  today  have  to  do  with  this  man  and  what  he  has 
left  us.  *  *  *  A  generation  other  than  mine  must  deal  with  these 
questions.  Burning  questions  they  are,  which  must  give  a  prominent 
place  in  the  history  of  the  country  to  that  sturdy  self-asserter  whom  I 
visited  at  Nauvoo.  Joseph  Smith,  claiming  to  be  an  inspired  teacher, 
faced  adversity  such  as  few  men  have  been  called  to  meet,  enjoyed 
a  brief  season  of  prosperity  such  as  few  men  have  ever  attained,  and, 
finally,  forty-three  days  after  I  saw  him,  went  cheerfully  to  a  martyr's 
death.  When  he  surrendered  his  person  to  Governor  Ford,  in  order 
to  prevent  the  shedding  of  blood,  the  prophet  had  a  presentiment  of 
what  was  before  him.  'I  am  going  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter,'  he  is 
reported  to  have  said,  'but  I  am  as  calm  as  a  summer's  morning.  I 
have  a  conscience  void  of  offense  and  shall  die  innocent.'  I  have  no 
theory  to  advance  respecting  this  extraordinary  man.  I  shall  simply 
give  the  facts  of  my  intercourse  with  him. 

"A  fine-looking  man " 

[Incidentally,  my  mother  tells  me  he  was  the  finest  looking  man 
she  ever  saw;  he  stood  over  six  feet  high.] 


222  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

"A  fine-looking  man  is  what  the  passer-by  would  instinctively 
have  murmured  upon  meeting  the  remarkable  individual  who  had 
fashioned  the  mold  which  was  to  shape  the  feelings  of  so  many  thou- 
sands of  his  fellow  mortals.  But  Smith  was  more  than  this,  and  one 
could  not  resist  the  impression  that  capacity  and  resource  were  natural 
to  his  stalwart  person.  I  have  already  mentioned  the  resemblance  he 
bore  to  Elisha  R.  Potter,  of  Rhole  Island,  whom  I  met  in  Washington 
in  1826.  The  likeness  was  not  such  as  would  be  recognized  in  a  pic- 
ture, but  rather  one  that  would  be  felt  in  a  grave  emergency.  Of  all 
men  T  have  met " 

[Remember  the  writer  had  met  Washington,  he  had  been  private 
secretary  to  John  Adams,  and  he  had  met  Lafayette  and  the  great 
men  of  his  day] 

NATURAL   LEADER   AND   STATESMAN. 

"Of  all  men  I  have  met,  these  two  seemed  best  endowed  with 
that  kingly  faculty  which  directs,  as  by  instrinsic  right,  the  feeble  or 
confused  souls  who  are  looking  for  guidance." 

In  passing,  I  may  remark  that  you  can  read  in  one  book  written 
against  the  "Mormons"  that  Joseph  Smith  got  all  his  inspiration  and 
revelations  while  he  was  having  fits.     (Laughter.) 

"We  then  went  on  to  talk  of  politics.  Smith  recognized  the  curse 
and  iniquity  of  slavery,  though  he  opposed  the  methods  of  the  aboli- 
tionists. His  plan  was  for  the  nation  to  pay  for  the  slaves  from  the 
sale  of  the  public  lands.  'Congress,'  he  said,  'should  be  compelled  to 
take  this  course,  by  petitions  from  all  parts  of  the  country ;  but  the  pe- 
titioners must  disclaim  all  alliance  with  those  who  would  disturb  the 
rights  of  property  recognized  by  the  Constitution  and  which  foment  in- 
surrection. It  may  be  worth  while  to  remark  that  Smith's  plan  was 
publicly  advocated  eleven  years  later  by  one  who  has  mixed  so  much 
practical  shrewdness  with  his  lofty  philospohy.  In  1855,  when  men's 
minds  had  been  moved  to  their  depths  on  the  question  of  slavery,  Ralph 
Waldo  Emerson  declared  that  it  should  be  met  in  accordance  'with 
the  interest  of  the  South  and  with  the  settled  conscience  of  the  North. 
It  is  not  really  a  great  task  a  great  fight  for  this  country  to  accomplish, 
to  buy  that  property  of  the  planter,  as  the  British  nation  bought  the 
West  Indian  salves.'  He  further  says  that  the  'United  States  will  be 
brought  to  give  every  inch  of  their  public  lands  for  a  purpose  like  this.' 
We,  who  can  look  back  upon  the  terrible  cost  of  the  fratricidal  war 
which  put  an  end  to  slavery,  now  say  that  such  a  solution  of  the  diffi- 
culty would  have  been  worthy  a  Christian  statesman.  But  if  the  re- 
tired scholar  was  in  advance  of  his  time  when  he  advocated  this  dis- 
position of  the  public  property  in  1855,  what  shall  I  say  of  the  political 
and  religious  leader  who  had  committed  himself,  in  print,  as  well  as 
in  conversation,  to  the  same  course  in  1844?  If  the  atmosphere  of 
men's   opinions   was   stirred  by   such   a   proposition  when   war-clouds 


STRENGTH  OF  THE  "MORMON"  CHURCH.  223 

were  discernible  in  the  sky,  was  it  not  a  statesmanlike  word  eleven 
years  earlier,  when  the  heavens  looked  tranquil  and  beneficent? 

"General  Smith  proceeded  to  unfold  still  further  his  views  upon 
politics.  He  denounced  the  Missouri  Compromise  as  an  unjustifiable 
concession  for  the  benefit  of  slavery.  It  was  Henry  Clay's  bid  for  the 
presidency.  Doctor  Goforth  might  have  spared  himself  the  trouble  of 
coming  to  Nauvoo  to  electioneer  for  a  duellist  who  would  fire  at  John 
Randolph,  but  was  not  brave  enough  to  protect  the  Saints  in  their 
rights  as  American  citizens.  Clay  told  his  (Smith's)  people  to  go  to 
the  wilds  of  Oregon  and  set  up  a  government  of  their  own.  Oh,  yes, 
the  Saints  might  go  into  the  wilderness  and  obtain  the  justice  of  the 
Indians,  which  imbecile,  time  serving  politicians  would  not  give  them 
in  the  land  of  freedom  and  equality.  The  prophet  then  talked  of  the 
details  of  government.  He  thought  that  the  number  of  members  ad- 
mitted to  the  lower  house  of  the  National  Legislature  should  be  reduced. 
A  crowd  only  darkened  counsel  and  impeded  business.  A  member  for 
every  half-million  of  population  would  be  ample.  The  powers  of  the 
President  should  be  increased.  He  should  have  authority  to  put  down 
rebellion  in  a  state,  without  waiting  for  the  request  of  any  Governor; 
for  it  might  happen  that  the  Governor  himself  would  be  the  leader 
of  the  rebels.  It  is  needless  to  remark  how  later  events  showed  the 
executive  weakness  that  Smith  pointed  out — a  weakness  which  cost 
thousands  of  valuable  lives  and  millions  of  treasure.    .    .    . 

"Born  in  the  lowest  ranks  of  poverty,  without,  booklearning  and 
with  the  homeliest  of  all  human  names,  he  had  made  himself  at  the  age 
of  thirty-nine  a  power  upon  the  earth.  Of  the  multitudinous  family 
of  Smith,  none  had  so  won  human  hearts  and  shaped  human  lives  as 
this  Joseph.  His  influence,  whether  for  good  or  evil,  is  potent  today, 
and  the  end  is  not  yet. 

"I  have  endeavored  to  give  the  details  of  my  visit  to  the  'Mormon' 
prophet  with  absolute  accuracy.  If  the  reader  does  not  know  just  what 
to  make  of  Joseph  Smith,  I  can  not  help  him  out  of  the  difficulty.  I 
myself  stand  helpless  before  the  puzzle." 

I  thank,  you,  gentlemen,  for  your  attention. 


INDEX 

Page 

Allen,  Elder  Heber  L ". 72 

Authorities  Present 1 

Authorities  Sustained  188 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J 98 

The  Keokuk  Dam  Foretold  by  Joseph  The  Prophet,  98— The 
Latter-day  Saints  Driven  from  Nauvoo,  99 — Their  Journey 
West — Two  Scenes  Compared,  99 — Declaring  the  Gospel  in  the 
Illinois  State  Capitol,  100 — Declaring  the  Message  on  the  Steps 
of  the  State  Capitol,  100 — A  Temple  Will  be  Built  in  Jackson 
County,  Mo.,  101 — The  Mercy  of  God  Shown  to  the  Saints,  101 — 
Out  of  Distress  Great  Good  Shall  Come,  103 — In  the  Face  of 
Hard  Times  Let  Us  Learn  Thrift,  104 — A  Key  to  Success,  104 — 
An  Appeal  to  the  Saints  to  Prove  Faithful  to  God,  105 — Closing 
Testimony,   108. 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J 162 

Purpose  of  the  Gathering,  162 — The  World's  Opposition  to  the 
Gathering,  163 — Our  Sons  and  Daughters  a  Heritage  of  Real 
Worth,  165 — We  May  Lose  Our  Heritage  by  Wrong  Marriage, 
165 — The  Evils  of  Being  Unequally  Yoked  Together,  166 — An 
Illustration,  167 — Unequal  Marriage  is  a  Loss  to  the  Church, 
167 — The  Approved  and  Appointed  Way  of  Marriage,  167 — 
Temple  Marriage  a  Protection  to  Women,  168 — No  Double 
Standard  with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  169 — The  Evils  of  Di- 
vorce and  Childless  Marriages,  169 — The  Latter-day  Saints  are 
not  to  be  Absorbed,  170. 

Baxter,  Elder  John   M 80 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0 47 

Birch,  Elder  E.  Frank 87 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A 54 

Clawson,  President  Rudger 24 

Women  and  the  Priesthood,  24 — The  Power  and  Authority  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood,  24 — Some  Pertinent  Questions  to  Those  Who 
Hold  the  Priesthood,  26. 

Eckersley,  Elder  Joseph    85 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 2 

Increased  Attendance  at  Sacrament  Meetings,  2 — Local  Mission- 
ary Labors,  2 — Temple  Work,  3 — Temple  Block  Labors,  3 — 
Changes  of  Officers  in  Stakes  and  Missions,  3 — Vital  and  Educa- 
tional Statistics,  4 — Missionary  Activities,  4 — Help  for  the  Poor, 
5 — Death  of  President  Anthon  H.  Lund  5 — Changes  in  the  First 
Presidency,  6— Choice  of  a  New  Apostle,  6— Hearty  Response  to 
Instructions  at  Last  Conference,  6— Change  of  Sentiment  Favor- 
ing the  Latter-day  Saints,  7. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J g 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 22 

Changes  in  Conference  Presidents,  22 — Increase  in  Payments  of 


226  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Tithing,  22— An  Editorial  in  the  "Coast  Banker,"  23— The  Can- 
tata, "The  Martyrs,"  by  Evan  Stephens,  23. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 30 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 42 

Arizona  Apropriates  $2,500  to  "Mormon"  Battalion  Monument, 
42 — "The  Deseret  News"  commended,  43 — Reference  to  Changes 
in  the  Relief  Society,  43. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 124 

Concerning  the  Jews,  124. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 141 

Appreciation  of  Stephen's  "The  Martyrs,"  141 — The  School  of 
Art  and  Music,  141. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 146 

The   Necessity  of  the   Cigarette   Law,    146 — Introducing   Prof. 
Perry  G.  Holden,  147. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 155 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 178 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 187 

Missionary  Statistics,  187 — Auditing  Committee  Report,  188 — 
(ieneral  Authorities  of  the  Church  Sustained,  188 — Trustees  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  189 — All  the  General  Authorities  Heard, 
189. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J 201 

A  Very  Important  Revelation,  201 — Concerning  Plural  Mar- 
riages, 201--— No  Person  Has  the  Right  to  Perforin  Plural  Mar- 
riages, 202 — Several  Persons  Excommunicated  fo*  Performing 
Prer. ruled  Marriage  Ceremonies,  202 — Concerning  Inspiration, 
202. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.  (From  the  "Coast  Banker") 205 

The  Martyrdom  and  Subsequent  Events,  207 — The  Great  Migra- 
tion to  Utah.  208 — Pioneering  the  Intermountain  Country  210— 
Temple  Building  and  Home  Industry,  211 — Establishing  Beet- 
Sugar  Industry,  213 — A  Financier's  Faith  and  Aid,  215 — "Mor- 
mon" Picneer  Hymn,  216 — Pathetic  Incident  of  t^e  PL  Tns,  218 — 
As  Colonizers  and  Nation-Builders,  219— Tribute  to  the  Founder, 
220— Natural  Leader  and  Statesman,  228. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H 137 

Holden,  Professor  Perry  G 147 

Iverson,  Elder  Heber  C 57 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W 18 

The  Church  After  Nearly  One  Hundred  Years,  18 — Opening  of 
the  Last  Dispensation,  18 — The  Book  of  Mormon,  19. 

Ivins,  Elder  Anthony  W 190 

We  Believe  in  Revelation,  190 — Revelation  Belongs  to  Every 
Member  of  the  Church,  190 — But  in  Affairs  Pertaining  to  the 
Church  at  La..'?,  the  Keys  are  with  One  Man  Only — The  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church,  191 — Many  Noted  Characters  of  History 
Have  Receive'  Revelations,  191 — We  Wish  Godspeed  to 
Good  Men  and  Women  Everywhere,  192 — The  Church  Dictates 
No  Creed  or  Policy  to  Any  Other  Body,  192— The  Sheep  Know 
the  Voice  of  the  Good  Shepherd,  193. 

Jensen,  Elder  Nephi  61 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   178 


INDEX.  227 

Knight,  Elder  John  M 67 

Lambert,  Elder  J.  N ••  •  .     50 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R 142 

Are  We  Worthy  Sons  and  Daughters  of  the  Pioneers?  142— The 
Anti-Cigarette  Campaign  Rational,  Not  Hysterical,  143— Why 
the  Anti-Cigarette  Question?  144 — Live  Within  Your  Means 
and  so  Keep  Out  of  Debt  and  Trouble,  144 — Nothing  Should 
Interfere  with  Sacrament  Meetings,  145 — Specifications  for  a 
Man,  146. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W 133 

Morris,  Elder  Nephi  L 90 

Nibley,  Elder  Charles  W 156 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W 9 

Rejoices  in  Changes  of  Sentiment  in  Favor  of  the  Saints,  9 — God 
our  Eternal  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  9 — Jesus  Christ  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father  in  the  Flesh,  10— The  Holy  Ghost, 
a  Personage  of  Spirit,  11 — The  Holy  Ghost  Bestowed  in  Con- 
firmation, 14 — Pertaining  to  the  Statement  in  the  Lectures  on 
Faith,  16— The  Light  of  God  Manifests  the  Tilings  of  God,  17— 
A  Testimony,  17. 

Penrose,  President  Charles  W 193 

The  Latter-day  Saints'  View  of  Revelation,  194 — As  to  Misin- 
formation, 194— Men  Who  Pretend  to  be  Called  of  God  to  Re- 
ceive Revelation,  195 — Men  Who  Have  Arrogated  to  Themselves 
the  Right  to  Marry,  196 — The  Latter-day  Saints  Believe  in  An- 
cient and  Modern  Revelation,  196 — The  Right  to  Receive  Revela- 
tion is  Common  to  All,  197 — All  Revelation  for  the  Church 
Comes  Through  the  Head  of  the  Church,  197 — Women  and  the 
Priesthood,  198 — As  to  Woman's  Right  to  Administer  to  the  Sick, 
199 — No  Meetings  to  be  Held  Without  Consent  of  Presiding 
Authorities,  199 — Do  What  is  Right  and  Look  to  the  Lord  for 
his  Word,  200—  Concluding  Testimony,  200. 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L 63 

Richards,  Elder  George  F 26 

Evidences  of  the  Faithfulness  of  the  Saints,  26 — Caring  for  the 
Fatherless,  and  Keeping  Ourselves  Unspotted  from  the  World, 
27 — Serious  Consequences  of  the  Sin  of  Neglect,  28 — Our  Duty 
to  Feed  the  Spirit  as  well  as  the  Body,  29 — Now  is  Our  Oppor- 
tunity to  Bless  Both  the  Living  and  the  Dead,  29. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L 125 

The  Financial  Condition,  125 — Our  Temporal  Affairs  Take  on 
Religious  Significance,  125 — The  Economic  Mission  of  the 
Church,  126 — The  Advice  to  Keep  Out  of  Debt  Not  Generally 
Lived  Up  To,  127— We  must  be  Saving  and  Economical,  127 — 
Our  Substance  Not  to  be  Devoted  to  Selfish  Ends  and  Pur- 
poses, 127 — 'The  Call  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  These  Depress- 
ing Times,  128 — Satisfaction  Comes  Through  Altruistic  Mo- 
tives, 129. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H 118 

Smith,  Elder  David  A. 175 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G 182 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding 38 

God  is  at  the  Helm,  38— Fundamental  Principles  Do  Not  Change 
in  the   Course  of  Progress,  39 — Perfection  would  result  if  the 


228  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

Revelations  of  the  Lord  were  Observed,  40 — Order  and  Perfec- 
tion in  the  Organization  of  the  Church,  40 — Our  Duty  to  Mission- 
ary Work,  41. 

Smith,  Elder  Samuel  F 82 

Smith,   Elder  Winslow  Fair    44 

Talmage,   Elder  James   E 72 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E 84 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E 109 

Who  Compose  this  Vast  Audience?  109 — We  Rejoice  in  the 
Forgiveness  of  Sins,  110 — Are  We  Retaining  the  Forgiveness  of 
Sins?  110 — The  Lord  Can  Give  and  Recall,  Pronounce  and 
Change,  111 — An  Illustration  from  Ancient  Scripture,  111 — An 
Illustration  from  Modern  Scripture,  112 — The  Lord  Giveth  and 
Taketh  in  Righteousness,  113 — The  Greatest  Declaration  on  the 
•  Subject,  113. 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S 130 

Whitney,   Elder   Orson   F 30 

Early  Missions  and  Appointments,  30 — No  Time  Limit,  31 — La- 
bors of  the  Twelve,  31 — Alma's  Wish,  32 — Providence  is  Over 
All,  32 — "Of  Their  Own  Nation  and  Tongue."  33 — Other  Aux- 
iliaries, 33 — America  a  Nursing  Mother,  34 — Truth's  Triumph  In- 
evitable, 35. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A 35 

A  Testimony,  35 — The  Unifying  Power  of  the  Gospel,  36 — The 
Church  Makes  no  Appeal  to  Mysticism,  36 — The  Test  of  Truth 
is  Simplicity,  36 — Danger  an  Departing  from  Fundamental 
Truths,  37 — We  Must  Use  as  well  as  PosSiess  Truth,  38. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 170 

Young,  Elder  Robert  D 76 

Young,  Elder  Seymour  B 114 


Elegant  New  Edition  of  the 
BOOK  OF  MORMON 

Just  off  the  press — a  new  edition  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon! It  now  appears  in  new  and  attractive  dress,  with 
acceptable  innovations  in  make-up  and  typography.  Only 
mechanical  changes  have  been  made,  of  course;  the  text 
remains  the  same,  in  all  its  sacred  completeness  of  detail. 

This  edition  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  designed  for 
popular  use,  and  will  surely  be  in  large  demand  in  the 
home  libraiy.  Its  eight-point  type  will  make  reading  de- 
lightfully easy. 

It  is  set  in  double-column  pages,  after  the  general  style 
of  the  Bible.  An  advantage  of  this  arrangement  is  a  shorter 
line,  which  greatly  facilitates  reading,  reducing  eye-strain 
and  fatigue. 

An  interesting  feature  is  a  "Brief  Analysis,"  which 
emphasizes  vital  points  and  clarifies  certain  details  of  ar- 
rangement that  would  be  otherwise  obscure.  The  volume 
abounds  in  foot-notes,  which  are  a  very  helpful  key  to  the 
chronological  sequence  of  the  history.  The  chapter  head- 
ings present  in  terse,  yet  comprehensive  form,  the  principal 
contents  of  the  respective  chapters,  and  show  at  a  glance 
whose  words  follow.  These  headings,  in  somewhat  ex- 
panded form,  are  compiled  in  the  after-part  of  the  volume 
as  a  "Synopsis  of  Chapters." 

A  glossary  of  words  distinctly  of  Book  of  Mormon 
origin,  will  be  a  great  aid  to  pronunciation  of  proper  names 
and  other  words.  But  the  greatest  help  of  all  is  afforded 
by  a  comprehensive  index,  which  fills  34  pages.  Stibjects 
are  indexed  and  cross-indexed;  while  striking  passages, 
telling  epigrams  and  choice  gems  of  thought  are  indicated 
in  a  way  that  readily  leads  to  their  source. 

It  is  printed  on  high  grade  paper,  has  wide  margins, 
and  is  bound  in  several  styles,  as  follows: 

Cloth  Embossed  $1.75 

Three-Quarters  Keratol 2.25 

Full  Keratol,  Red  Edge,  Flexible 3.00 

Full  Morocco,  Flexible,  Red  Undergold  Edges 4.00 

Missionary  Edition,  Cloth 75 


Prophecies  by  Joseph  Smith  and  Their  Fulfillment 

A  Valuable  Book,  by  Nephi  L.  Morris 

Was  Joseph  Smith  a  Prophet?  What  answers  come  from  the  cen- 
tury that  has  rolled  by  since  he  beheld  his  first  vision?  Have  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  misplaced  faith  in  him?  After  the  progress  of  a  hundred 
years,  what  has  Time  done  with  his  claims  to  the  title  of  a  Prophet. 

In  order  to  make  plain  the  outcome  of  Time  the  author  has  dug  up 
old  and  forgotten  manuscripts  and  prints  which  he  lays  before  the 
readers. 

Did  you  know  that  Joseph  Smith  foretold  the  War  of  the  Rebellion, 
stating  exactly  where  it  should  begin?  Did  you  know  that  he  foretold 
in  the  same  prophecy  exactly  when  the  World  War  should  occur? 

Did  you  know  that  he  foretold  the  fate  of  Judge  Stephen  A.  Douglas, 
the  man  who  contended  with  Lincoln  for  the  presidential  chair? 

Did  you  know  that  he  prophesied  that  this  great  Intermountain 
Empire  should  arise  here  as  a  result  of  the  persecutions  of  the  Saints  at 
the  hands  of  their  enemies? 

Did  you  know  that  he  placed  the  Garden  of  Eden  in  America  and 
that  today  many  great  scientists  agree  with  him? 

Did  you  know  that  he  placed  the  date  of  the  birth  of  the  Savior 
as  April  6th  and  probably  the  date  of  His  crucifixion  as  the  same  date? 

Does  the  Book  of  Mormon  chronology  of  these  events  agree  with 
his  statements? 

Did  you  know  that  the  United  States  has  faithfully  pursued  the  path 
pointed  out  for  her  by  the  Book  of  Mormon  Prophets  thousands  of 
years  ago? 

Did  you  know  that  Apostle  Orson  Hyde  foretold  the  part  that  Eng- 
land should  take  in  the  restoring  of  Jerusalem  to  the  Jews  and  that  his 
prophecy  was  published  in  1842 — seventy-five  years  before  the  event 
transpired  ? 

Read  this  interesting  book  for  the  answers  to  these  questions. 

PRICE  $1.25 


President  Joseph  F.  Smith's 

GOSPEL  DOCTRINE 

Selections  from  His  Sermons  and  Writings 

The  Melchizedek  Priesthood  Quorums  have  adopted  Gospel  Doctrine 
as  a  text  for  class  study  for  this  year,  but  every  member  of  the 
Church  will  wish  to  read  it,  and  every  student  refer  to  it  for  information. 

Contains  a  large  and  careful  index  of  subjects,  making  it  invaluable 
for  easy  reference  on  thousands  of  vital  topics  on  principle  and  conduct, 

Contains  700  pages,  large,  clear  type  for  easy  reading,  good  paper 
and  handsomely  bound  in  cloth,  $2.00. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

444648  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE  SALT  LAKE  CITY 


