OniL  dtundh&d,  Jwctthf-AixtfL 
ANNUAL 

COflffREOCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle  „ 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

%  GphiL  6,  7  and.  8, 1956 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  In  the  United  States  of  America 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-sixth  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-sixth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  6, 
7,  and  8,  1956. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and 
the  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday  eve- 
ning, April  7,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  au- 
diences one  or  more  of  the  six  general 
sessions" 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KVEL 
at  Vernal,  KVNU  at  Logan,  KSUB  at 
Cedar  City. 

In  Idaho:  KBAR  at  Burley,  KBOI 
and  KBOI-TV  at  Boise,  KRXK  at  Rex- 
burg,  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho  Falls, 
KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KVFC  at  Cortez,  KLZ-TV  at  Den- 
vcr 

In  Nevada:  KLAS  and  KLAS-TV  at 
Las  Vegas,  KELY  at  Ely. 

In  California:  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa,  KGO-TV  at  San 
Francisco,  KNXT-TV  at  Los  Angeles, 
KEYT-TV  at  Santa  Barbara,  KFMB-TV 
at  San  Diego,  KOVR-TV  at  Stockton, 
KERN-TV  at  Bakersfield. 

In  Oregon:  KWRC  at  Pendleton, 
KOIN-TV  at  Portland,  KBES-TV  at 
Medford. 

In  Arizona:  KTYL  at  Mesa,  KOOL- 
TV  at  Phoenix. 

In  Washington:  KXQ-TV  at  Spokane, 
KIMA-TV  at  Yakima,  KEPR-TV  at  Pas- 
co, KTNT-TV  at  Tacoma. 

All  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeak- 


ing  system  and  by  television.  Thousands, 
in  addition,  listened  to  the  services  on 
the  Tabernacle  grounds  by  means  of 
amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  were  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over 
public  address  systems,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other  as- 
semblies in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, Nevada,  and  California. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of 
the  sessions  of  the  Conference,  includ- 
ing the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing Company's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record,  as  is  also  a  full  account  of  Co- 
lumbia's Church  of  the  Air  program. 
(See  pages  125-129.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  *,  Mark  E.  Peter- 
sen, Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G.  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Adam  S.  Bennion,  Richard  L.  Evans, 
and  George  Q.  Morris. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Hugh  B.  Brown,  and 
Sterling  W.  Sill. 


*Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  was  absent 
being  engaged  in  duties  pertaining  to 
his  office  as  United  States  Secretary  of 
Agriculture. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  and  Marion  Duff  Hanks. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  In- 
structors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 


Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  California;  J.  Earl  Lewis, 
Canadian;  Edgar  L.  Wagner,  Central 
American;  Henry  A.  Smith,  Central  At- 
lantic States;  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Central 
States;  M.  Ross  Richards,  East  Central 
States;  Theodore  C.  Jacobsen,  Eastern 
States;  Lorin  L.  Richards,  Great  Lakes; 
Legrand  R  Smith,  Gulf  States;  Claud- 
ious  Bowman,  Mexican;  Junius  M. 
Jackson,  New  England;  G.  Eugene  Eng- 
land, North  Central  States;  Thomas  W. 
Gardner,  Northern  California;  Isaac  A. 
Smoot,  Northern  States;  Douglas  H. 
Driggs,  Northwestern  States;  Berkeley 
L.  Bunker,  Southern  States;  Alfred  E. 
Rohner,  Southwest  Indian;  Harold  I. 
Bowman,  Spanish-American;  Samuel  A. 
Hendricks,  West  Central  States;  Mo- 
roni M.  Larson,  Western  Canadian;  and 
Albert  Lewis  Elggren,  Western  States. 


FIRST 
MORNING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Friday,  April  6,  1956,  at 
10:00  o'clock  a.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  meeting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference, 
Ralph  Woodward  conducting. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

All  who  saw  the  glorious  eastern  sky 
this  morning  before  sunrise  must  have 
responded  to  the  words  of  the  poet: 
"Now  morn  her  rosy  steps  in  the  eastern 
clime  advancing,  sows  the  earth  with 
orient  pearls."  All  Salt  Lake  Valley, 
and  I  think  this  western  area,  is  filled 
with  that  sunlight.  I  hope  that  all  who 
are  listening  and  all  who  are  assembled 
in  houses  of  worship  this  morning  will 
have  their  hearts  filled  with  the  sun- 
shine of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  we  may 
have  the  spirit  of  love  and  true  brother- 
hood abiding  with  us  during  this  session, 
and  those  that  follow  in  the  One  Hun- 
dred Twenty-Sixth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

We  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
All  the  General  Authorities  are  in  at- 
tendance excepting  Elder  Ezra  Taft 
Benson,  whose  duties  as  Secretary  of 
Agriculture  necessitated  his  flying  back 
to  Washington  last  evening. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

These  services  and  all  general  ses- 
sions of  the  Conference  will  be  broad- 
cast in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt 
Hall,  over  public  address  system  and  by 
television.  The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to 
capacity.  The  services  this  morning  are 
also  being  televised  over  KSL-TV, 
Channel  5,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by 
arrangement  through  KSL  over  three 
television  stations  in  Idaho.  They  like- 
wise are  being  heard  over  twelve  radio 


DAY 

MEETING 

stations  in  Oregon,  Utah,  Idaho,  Colo- 
rado, Nevada,  and  Arizona.  The  names 
of  these  stations  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  television  and  radio 
audience. 

We  desire  most  appreciatively  to  ex- 
press our  gratitude  to  those  various  radio 
and  television  stations  for  their  cour- 
tesy in  making  available  their  time  and 
facilities  for  these  broadcasts.  It  is  truly 
a  great  service. 

To  those  who  are  assembled  in  person, 
and  to  the  untold  thousands  compris- 
ing the  television  and  radio  audiences, 
the  First  Presidency  and  General  Au- 
thorities extend  a  most  hearty  welcome, 
and  pray  that  our  souls  may  be  uplifted 
and  inspired  by  our  assembling  together 
in  this  great  Conference  of  the  Church. 

We  greet  the  young  people  from  the 
Brigham  Young  University,  and  their 
leaders,  who  are  here  to  furnish  music 
for  us.  It  is  a  joy  to  have  you  with  us. 

We  note  these  beautiful  Calla  Lilies 
and  Daffodils.  For  the  tenth  consecu- 
tive year  the  Berkeley  Stake  has  gra- 
ciously furnished  us  flowers  to  beautify 
this  building  during  the  sessions  of 
Conference.  These  Calla  Lilies  are  mes- 
sengers of  their  affection  and  loyal  sup- 
port. We  thank  the  members  of  the 
Berkeley  Stake  for  this  loving  service. 
These  beautiful  Daffodils  have  come 
from  the  Puyallup  Daffodil  Festival 
through  the  Tacoma  Stake  in  the  north- 
west. Thank  you  for  these  lovely  flow- 
ers. Mrs.  Mary  R.  Persson  of  Wood- 
land, California,  sent  several  dozen 
Calla  Lilies  to  gladden  our  hearts,  and 
in  a  note,  stated:  "Grown  in  my  own 
garden."  We  send  deep  appreciation  and 
thanks  to  Mrs.  Persson. 

Here  is  another  interesting  feature. 
We  learned  yesterday  that  sometime  to- 
day 18  or  20  servicemen  will  come  in  a 
government  plane  to  attend  Conference 
from  Scott  Air  Force,  Belleville,  Illinois, 
and  about  the  same  number  from  the 
Vance  Air  Force,  Enid,  Oklahoma.  They 
will  be  a  little  late  for  this  morning's 
session,  so  we  suggest  that  Bishop  Isaac- 
son and  his  excellent  corps  of  ushers  re- 
serve seats  with  the  stake  presidencies 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  6 

this  afternoon,  so  the  servicemen  may 
enter  the  Tabernacle.  We  shall  appre- 
ciate it. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  the 
following  distinguished  visitors  and 
others  who  hold  prominent  positions  in 
educational  circles,  and  in  the  state.  I 
am  not  sure  that  we  have  been  able  to 
observe  all  who  are  present,  but  we 
mention  the  following:  Senator  Wallace 
F.  Bennett;  Congressman  H.  Aldous 
Dixon;  Mayor  Adiel  F.  Stewart  of  Salt 
Lake  City;  Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake 
City  Schools  M.  Lynn  Bennion;  Lamont 
Toronto,  Secretary  of  State;  President 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University.  There  may  be  others 
whom  we  have  not  been  able  to  ob- 
serve, but  we  mention  these  and  assure 
you  that  you  and  all  others  unmen- 
tioned  are  welcome  at  our  services. 

We  have  before  us  also  our  mission 
presidents  from  United  States,  Mexico, 
Central  America,  Canada.  We  have 
stake  presidencies,  bishoprics,  all  temple 
presidents,  and  General  Auxiliary  of- 
ficers. To  all  we  extend  a  hearty  wel- 
come and  express  satisfaction  and 
pleasure  in  your  presence  and  your  co- 
operative spirit  in  these  exercises. 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses, 
with  Elder  Ralph  Woodward  conduct- 
ing, and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at 
the  organ. 

We  all  know  that  the  Primary  Con- 
ference concluded  last  evening,  and  it 
is  a  note  of  interest,  very  significant,  to 


First  Day 

know  that  there  were  so  many  in  at- 
tendance that  they  could  not  accommo- 
date them  in  this  large  Tabernacle,  and 
so  they  held  two  sessions,  and  they 
were  very  inspirational — according  to 
reports,  exceptionally  so.  I  think  that 
the  Primary  General  Presidency  and 
Boards  should  be  happy  this  morning  on 
the  success  of  their  great  Conference. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing,  "The 
Heavens  Are  Telling,"  with  Ralph 
Woodward  conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Arthur  J.  Godfrey,  president  of 
the  Santa  Barbara  Stake. 


Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "The  Heav- 
ens Are  Telling." 

President  Arthur  J.  Godfrey,  presi- 
dent of  the  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
Elder  Arthur  J.  Godfrey,  president  of  the 
Santa  Barbara  Stake.  The  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses 
will  now  sing,  "Prayer  Is  the  Soul's  Sin- 
cere Desire." 

Following  the  singing,  President  Mc- 
Kay will  speak,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  "Prayer 
Is  the  Soul's  Sincere  Desire." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  If 
you  knew  the  weight  of  the  respon- 
sibility of  this  moment,  you  would 
gladly  answer  the  prayer  of  my  heart — 
that  I  might  have  your  united  support 
and  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord.  I 
know  what  I  should  like  to  say  and  will 
try  to  say  it,  but  it  is  a  question  whether 
I  can  get  that  message  over  to  the  thou- 
sands who  are  listening  as  I  should  like 
to  give  it,  and,  I  hope,  as  the  Lord 
would  have  it  given. 

".  .  .  verily  I  say  unto  you,  .  .  .  [that] 
marriage  is  ordained  of  God  unto  man. 


"Wherefore,  it  is  lawful  that  he 
should  have  one  wife,  and  they  twain 
shall  be  one  flesh,  and  all  this  that  the 
earth  might  answer  the  end  of  its  crea- 
tion." (D  &  C  49:15-16.) 

That  passage  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  indicates  the  message  I  have 
in  mind  to  give  this  morning — some 
helpful  hints  for  happy  homes. 

First,  however,  I  should  like  to  say  a 
few  words  relative  to  the  general 
conditions  in  the  Church.  A  most  out- 
standing accomplishment  since  our  con- 
ference last  October  is  the  completion 


PRESIDENT  D 

and  dedication  of  the  Los  Angeles  Tem- 
ple. 

On  the  original  twenty-four  acres 
purchased  by  President  Heber  J.  Grant, 
assisted  by  Elders  David  Howells  and 
Preston  D.  Richards,  there  are  now,  be- 
sides the  temple,  the  following  Church 
edifices,  all  finished  and  paid  for:  the 
Westwood  Ward  chapel,  recreation  hall, 
and  classrooms;  headquarters  of  the 
California  Mission,  bureau  of  infor- 
mation, central  heating  plant,  and 
sufficient  lot  space  for  an  inter-stake 
auditorium. 

During  the  pre-dedicatory  visiting 
days,  December  19,  1955,  to  February 
18,  1956,  660,000  persons  availed  them- 
selves of  the  opportunity  of  viewing  this 
sacred  edifice.  Forty  thousand  attended 
the  eight  dedicatory  services  held  March 
11  to  March  14. 

It  is  highly  appropriate  to  express  to 
this  general  conference  appreciation  of 
the  contributed  efforts,  time,  and  means 
of  the  thousands  of  men  and  women 
who  had  the  responsibility  of  directing 
and  caring  for  the  convenience  and  com- 
fort of  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
visitors,  sometimes  as  many  as  25,000  a 
day. 

First,  this  appreciation  applies  espe- 
cially to  the  stake  presidencies,  high 
councils  and  bishoprics  in  the  temple 
area,  and  all  the  members  of  committees 
appointed  by  them;  second,  to  the  archi- 
tect and  his  associates;  and  third,  to  the 
contractor  and  assistants;  fourth,  to  the 
faithful  women  who  constituted  a  re- 
ception committee,  who  were  at  their 
assigned  posts  of  duty  every  day  for  over 
nine  weeks,  outside  and  inside  the  tem- 
ple; fifth,  to  the  presidency  of  the  Tem- 
ple Mission  and  directors  of  the  Bureau 
of  Information;  sixth,  to  the  eleven  doc- 
tors who  were  on  hand  to  render  first 
aid.  Incidentally,  forty-seven  persons 
received  medical  care.  We  express  ap- 
preciation also  to  our  own  committees 
and  those  in  California — the  committee 
on  transportation  and  accommodation; 
the  committee  on  the  printing  and  dis- 
tribution of  tickets;  the  committee  on 
press  and  radio  and  public  relations;  the 
committee  on  seating  those  thousands  of 
people;  and,  I  might  say  especially,  the 
committee  who,  through  KSL,  installed 
television  in  the  various  rooms,  thus 
adding  to  the  interest  and  convenience 


VID  O.  McKAY  5 

of  over  5,000  members  to  attend  each 
of  the  eight  sessions  of  the  dedicatory 
services. 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  for 
the  welcome  extended  by  the  governor 
of  the  state,  Governor  Goodwin  Knight, 
and  his  commendation  and  words  of  ap- 
preciation for  that  sacred  edifice;  also 
the  message  sent  by  Mayor  Norris  Poul- 
son  of  Los  Angeles;  and  for  the  recep- 
tions given  and  messages  sent  by  the 
Los  Angeles  Chamber  of  Commerce  and 
the  Los  Angeles  Rotary  Club.  We  ap- 
preciate their  attitude  and  their  enter- 
tainment. Great  as  that  temple  is, 
beautiful  as  it  is,  we  shall  ever  associate 
with  it  the  attitude  of  the  people  toward 
it,  members  and  non-members  alike. 

We  appreciate  the  contributions  given 
by  people  in  the  temple  district,  every 
promise  fulfilled,  and  more — voluntarily 
given. 

Finally,  we  are  appreciative  of  the 
tithes  and  offerings  of  the  entire  Church, 
making  that  edifice  and  others  possible. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  one  hundred  and 
twenty-six  years  ago  today,  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
organized  in  the  home  of  Peter  Whitmer, 
Sr.  Six  members  founded  the  organiza- 
tion, though  there  were  others  present. 

About  fourteen  months  prior  to  that 
organization,  a  revelation  was  given  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  saying,  a  marvelous 
work  was  about  to  come  forth  among 
the  children  of  men. 

In  that  revelation  we  read  the  follow- 
ing regarding  the  spirit  of  the  Church: 

"Therefore,  O  ye  that  embark  in  the 
service  of  God,  see  that  ye  serve  him 
with  all  your  heart,  might,  mind  and 
strength,  that  ye  may  stand  blameless 
before  God  at  the  last  day.  .  .  . 

"And  faith,  hope,  charity  and  love, 
with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God, 
qualify  him  for  the  work. 

"Remember  faith,  virtue,  knowledge, 
temperance,  patience,  brotherly  kindness, 
godliness,  charity,  humility,  diligence." 
(D  &  C  4:2,  5-6.) 

Compared  with  the  nearly  two  thou- 
sand years  since  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God,  established  his  Church  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time,  one  hundred  and 
twenty-six  years  constitute  a  very  brief 
period,  yet  the  growth  and  progress  of 
the  restored  Church  during  that  time 
have  been  remarkable.  From  a  member- 


6  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  6 

ship  of  six,  the  Church  now  numbers 
over  a  million  and  a  quarter,  divided 
into  227  stakes  and  forty-four  missions. 
It  has  built  twelve  temples,  with  two 
more  under  construction,  and  2,646  other 
houses  of  worship  are  completed  and 
under  construction. 

In  educational  matters,  its  accom- 
plishments are  highly  commendable. 
Besides  the  general  interest  of  the  mem- 
bers in  the  University  of  Utah,  the  Utah 
State  Agricultural  College,  and  other 
state  institutions,  the  Church  supports  an 
educational  system  of  which  it  may 
justly  be  proud:  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, Ricks  Junior  College,  140 
seminaries  and  institutes,  and  is  now 
building  junior  colleges  in  New  Zea- 
land, Hawaii,  Tongatabu,  Tonga,  Pesega, 
and  Mapusaga,  Samoa. 

The  Church  supports  twelve  hospitals, 
and  through  its  welfare  department 
needy  persons  are  either  rehabilitated  or 
given  necessary  assistance  from  fast 
offerings  and  tithing  funds.  Though 
temples,  tabernacles,  and  other  Church 
edifices  cost  millions,  all  dedicated 
buildings  are  wholly  paid  for,  and  the 
Church  is  entirely  free  from  debt. 

On  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency  and 
other  General  Authorities  of  the  Church, 
I  take  great  satisfaction  in  reporting  that 
all  departments  of  the  Church  are 
progressing  very  satisfactorily  and  ex- 
press gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  his  divine  guidance  and  inspiration. 

An  Appeal  for  Stability  and  Harmony 
in  the  Home 

But  I  am  not  so  sure  whether  we 
are  maintaining  the  high  standards 
required  of  us  in  our  homes.  I  feel 
constrained,  therefore,  at  this  opening 
session  to  make  an  appeal  for  more  sta- 
bility, more  harmony  and  happiness  in 
home  life.  It  has  been  truly  said  that 
"the  strength  of  a  nation,  especially  of 
a  republican  nation,  is  in  the  intelli- 
gent, well-ordered  homes  of  the  people." 
In  no  other  group  in  the  world  should 
there  be  more  contented,  more  happy 
homes  than  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Just  this  month  there  appeared  in  a 
leading  magazine  the  encouraging  state- 
ment that  American  homes  and  family 
life  are  steadily  strengthening.  Ac- 
cording to  that  article,  the  total  popula- 


First  Day 

tion  of  our  country  has  doubled  since 
1900.  The  number  of  families  has 
tripled.  This  growth  in  family  life  is 
shown  by  the  rapid  increase  in  home 
ownership.  One  hundred-twenty  per- 
cent more  families  owned  their  own 
homes  in  1955  than  in  1940.  There  are 
sixty-seven  percent  more  children  under 
five  years  of  age  now  than  in  1940,  that 
is  in  the  country  at  large.  There  are 
sixty-one  percent  more  children  in  group 
age  five  to  nine  years. 

Loyalty  as  a  Contributing  Factor 

Recently  our  attention  has  been  called 
to  conditions  that  seem  to  justify 
our  admonishing  the  membership  of  the 
Church  to  keep  their  homes  exemplary 
before  the  world. 

To  the  young  people  of  the  Church, 
particularly,  I  should  like  to  say  first 
that  a  happy  home  begins  not  at  the 
marriage  altar,  but  during  the  brilliant, 
fiery  days  of  youth.  The  first  contribut- 
ing factor  to  a  happy  home  is  the  sub- 
lime virtue  of  loyalty,  one  of  the  noblest 
attributes  of  the  human  soul.  Loyalty 
means  being  faithful  and  true.  It  means 
fidelity  to  parents,  fidelity  to  duty,  fidel- 
ity to  a  cause  or  principle,  fidelity  to 
love.  Disloyalty  to  parents  during  teen 
age  is  often  a  source  of  sorrow  and 
sometimes  tragedy  in  married  life. 

I  have  received  several  letters  this 
last  month  from  young  folk — two  of 
them  in  their  teens — irked  because  of 
what  they  consider  interference  of  par- 
ents. Young  people  in  all  the  Church 
and  all  the  nation  should  understand 
that  both  the  Church  and  the  state  hold 
parents  responsible  for  the  conduct  and 
protection  of  their  children.  The 
Church,  you  will  recall,  is  very  explicit 
in  that.  ".  .  .  inasmuch  as  parents  have 
children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her  stakes 
which  are  organized,  that  teach  them 
not  to  understand  the  doctrine  of  re- 
pentance, faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the 
Living  God,  and  of  baptism  and  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on 
of  the  hands,  when  eight  years  old,  the 
sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

"For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  in- 
habitants of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized."  (D  &  C 
68:25-26.) 

That  is  explicit,  and  parents,  that  is 
your  responsibility. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Some  of  you  would  be  surprised  to 
know  that  the  statute  of  the  state  re- 
quires explicitly  that  not  only  parents, 
but  also  any  guardian  who  has  charge 
of  a  child  eighteen  or  under  is  held 
responsible  for  the  protection  of  that 
child  and  for  his  moral  teachings.  Any 
guardian  or  parent  that  will  do  any- 
thing to  injure  the  morals  of  the  child 
is  guilty  of  a  misdemeanor  and  sub- 
ject to  imprisonment  of  not  more,  if  I 
remember  rightly,  than  six  months,  and 
a  fine  of  not  less  than  three  hundred 
dollars,  or  both. 

So,  girls  and  boys,  your  parents,  not 
only  because  of  their  love,  but  also  by 
command  of  the  Lord  and  by  legisla- 
tive enactment  of  the  state,  are  com- 
pelled to  watch  over  you  and  guide  you. 
And  parents,  once  again,  that  is  your 
responsibility.  The  effect  of  this  guard- 
ianship will  be  shown  by  this  illustra- 
tion. 

A  New  York  City  judge  not  long  ago 
wrote  to  the  New  York  Times,  saying 
that  in  seventeen  years  that  he  had  been 
on  the  bench  not  one  Chinese-American 
teen  ager  had  been  brought  before  him 
on  a  juvenile  delinquency  charge.  The 
judge  queried  his  colleagues,  and  they 
agreed  that  not  one  of  the  city's  esti- 
mated 10,000  Chinese-American  teen 
agers,  to  their  knowledge,  (not  one) 
had  ever  been  hailed  into  court  on  a 
charge  of  depredation,  narcotics,  speed- 
ing, burglary,  vandalism,  stickup,  purse 
snatching,  or  mugging  accusations. 

A  check  with  San  Francisco,  where 
there  is  a  large  colony  of  Chinese- Amer- 
icans, tells  the  same  story. 

P.  H.  Chang,  Chinese  Consul-General 
in  New  York  City,  was  asked  to  com- 
ment on  that.  He  said,  "I  have  heard 
this  story  many  times  from  many  judges. 
I'll  tell  you  why  I  think  this  is  so. 
Filial  piety  is  a  cardinal  virtue  my  peo- 
ple have  brought  over  from  the  China 
that  was  once  free.  A  Chinese  child, 
no  matter  where  he  lives,  is  brought  up 
to  recognize  that  he  cannot  shame  his 
parents.  Before  a  Chinese  child  makes 
a  move,  he  stops  to  think  what  the  re- 
action of  his  parents  will  be.  Will 
they  be  proud  or  will  they  be  ashamed? 
Above  all  other  things,  the  Chinese 
teen-ager  is  anxious  to  please  his  par- 
ents. 

"Most  Chinese-Americans,  no  matter 


how  wealthy  or  poor,  maintain  a  strict 
family  style  home.  Mealtime  is  a  cere- 
monious affair  which  must  be  attended 
by  every  member  of  the  family.  School- 
ing, reverence  for  religion,  and  decorum 
plus  reverence  for  the  elders,  are  the 
prime  movers  in  developing  the  child 
from  infancy." 

And  the  paper  says,  "The  amazing 
record  of  the  Chinese-American  young- 
ster shows  that  it  is  in  the  home  that 
the  cure  for  juvenile  delinquency  will 
be  found,  and  in  no  other  place."* 

So,  young  people,  loyalty  to  parents, 
if  not  a  direct  contributing  factor  to  a 
happy  home,  is  at  least  a  safeguard 
against  hastily  assuming  and  lightly 
esteeming  the  duties  and  responsibilities 
of  marriage. 

Loyalty  to  Self 

Next  to  loyalty  to  parents,  I  should 
like  to  urge  loyalty  to  self.  Remember, 
if  you  would  be  happy,  if  you  reach  the 
goal  of  success  in  the  distant  future,  your 
first  duty  is  to  be  loyal  to  the  best  that 
is  in  you,  not  to  the  basest. 

There  is  a  saying  in  the  Bible  that 
"every  idle  word  that  men  shall  speak, 
they  shall  give  account  thereof  in  the 
day  of  judgment."  (Matt.  12:36.)  Psy- 
chology assures  us  that  "We  are  spin- 
ning our  own  fates,  good  or  evil,  and 
never  to  be  undone.  Every  smallest 
stroke  of  virtue  or  of  vice  leaves  its 
never  so  little  scar.  The  drunken  Rip 
Van  Winkle,  in  Jefferson's  play,  excuses 
himself  for  every  fresh  dereliction  by 
saying,  'I  won't  count  this  time.' 

"Well!"  continues  James,  the  psy- 
chologist, "he  may  not  count  it,  and  a 
kind  Heaven  may  not  count  it;  but  it 
is  being  counted  none  the  less.  Down 
among  his  nerve  cells  and  fibres  the 
molecules  are  counting  it,  registering 
and  storing  it  up  to  be  used  against 
him  when  the  next  temptation  comes. 
Nothing  we  ever  do  is,  in  strict  scien- 
tific literalness,  wiped  out.  Of  course, 
this  has  its  good  side  as  well  as  its  bad 
one.  As  we  become  permanent  drunk- 
ards by  so  many  separate  drinks,  so  we 
become  saints  in  the  moral,  and  au- 
thorities and  experts  in  the  practical 
and  scientific  spheres,  by  so  many  sep- 
arate acts  and  hours  of  work.    Let  no 


*(From  an  editorial  in  the  Saturday  Evening  Post 
reprinted  in  the  Reader's  Digest,  July  1955.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


8 

Friday,  April  6 

youth  have  any  anxiety  about  the  up- 
shot of  his  education,  whatever  the  line 
of  it  may  be.  If  he  keep  faithfully  busy 
each  hour  of  the  working  day,  he  may 
safely  leave  the  final  result  to  itself. 
He  can  with  perfect  certainty  count  on 
waking  up  some  fine  morning,  to  find 
himself  one  of  the  competent  ones  of 
his  generation,  in  whatever  pursuit  he 
may  have  singled  out.  Silently,  be- 
tween all  the  details  of  his  business,  the 
power  of  judging  in  all  that  class  of 
matter  will  have  built  itself  up  within 
him  as  a  possession  that  will  never  pass 
away.  Young  people  should  know  this 
truth  in  advance.  The  ignorance  of  it 
has  probably  engendered  more  discour- 
agement and  faint-heartedness  in  youth 
embarking  on  arduous  careers  than  all 
other  causes  put  together."  (Psychology, 
William  James,  Henry  Holt,  1892,  p. 
150.) 

A  good  ideal  for  youth  to  build  a 
happy  home  is  this:  Keep  true  to  the 
best  and  never  let  an  hour  of  indulgence 
scar  your  life  for  eternity. 

Loyalty  to  Your  Future  Companion 

Next  under  that  heading  of  loyalty,  I 
urge  loyalty  to  your  future  companion. 
When  harmony,  mutual  consideration, 
and  trust  pass  out  of  the  home,  hell 
enters  in.  A  memory  of  a  simple  in- 
dulgence in  youth  sometimes  opens 
hell's  door.  Girls,  choose  a  husband 
who  has  respect  for  womanhood!  Young 
man,  choose  a  girl  who,  in  her  teens, 
has  virtue  and  strength  enough  to  keep 
herself  true  to  her  future  husband! 
Down  the  road  of  indulgence  are  too 
many  good  young  girls,  seeking  vainly 
for  happiness  in  the  by-ways  where 
people  grovel  but  do  not  aspire.  As  a 
result  their  search  for  happiness  is  in 
vain.  They  grasp  at  what  seems  sub- 
stance to  find  only  ashes. 

If  you  would  have  a  happy  marriage, 
keep  your  reputation  as  well  as  your 
character  unsullied. 

It  is  a  common  saying  throughout  the 
world  that  young  men  may  sow  their 
wild  oats,  but  young  women  should  be 
chaperoned.  In  general,  this  is  pretty 
well  carried  out,  but  in  the  Church  we 
have  but  one  single  standard,  and  it  is 
just  as  important  for  young  men  to 
keep  themselves  chaste  as  it  is  for  young 
women.    No  matter  what  the  oppor- 


First  Day 

tunity,  no  matter  what  the  temptation, 
let  the  young  man  know  that  to  find 
happiness  he  must  hold  sacred  his  true 
manhood.  Marriage  is  a  failure  when 
manhood  is  a  failure.  Let  him  know 
that  to  gain  moral  strength  he  must 
learn  to  resist  temptation,  learn  to  say 
with  Christ,  "Get  thee  hence,  Satan: 
for  it  is  written,  Thou  shalt  worship  the 
Lord  thy  God,  and  him  only  shalt  thou 
serve."  (Matt.  4:10.)  Then  he  is  happy; 
there  is  peace  instead  of  turbulency  in 
his  soul. 

Continued  Courtship 

jVEXT  to  loyalty  as  contributive  to  a 
happy  home,  I  should  like  to  urge 
continued  courtship,  and  apply  this  to 
grown  people.  Too  many  couples  have 
come  to  the  altar  of  marriage  looking 
upon  the  marriage  ceremony  as  the  end 
of  courtship  instead  of  the  beginning 
of  an  eternal  courtship.  Let  us  not  for- 
get that  during  the  burdens  of  home 
life — and  they  come — that  tender  words 
of  appreciation,  courteous  acts  are  even 
more  appreciated  than  during  those 
sweet  days  and  months  of  courtship.  It 
is  after  the  ceremony  and  during  the 
trials  that  daily  arise  in  the  home  that 
a  word  of  "thank  you,"  or  "pardon  me," 
"if  you  please,"  on  the  part  of  husband 
or  wife  contributes  to  that  love  which 
brought  you  to  the  altar.  It  is  well  to 
keep  in  mind  that  love  can  be  starved 
to  death  as  literally  as  the  body  that 
receives  no  sustenance.  Love  feeds  upon 
kindness  and  courtesy.  It  is  significant 
that  the  first  sentence  of  what  is  now 
known  throughout  the  Christian  world 
as  the  Psalm  of  Love,  is,  "Love  suffer- 
eth  long,  and  is  kind."  The  wedding 
ring  gives  no  man  the  right  to  be  cruel 
or  inconsiderate,  and  no  woman  the 
right  to  be  slovenly,  cross,  or  disagree- 
able. 

Self-Control 

•Jhe  next  contributing  factor  to  your 
happy  marriage  I  would  name  is 
self-control.  Little  things  happen  that 
annoy  you,  and  you  speak  quickly, 
sharply,  loudly,  and  wound  the  other's 
heart.  I  know  of  no  virtue  that  helps 
to  contribute  to  the  happiness  and  peace 
of  the  home  more  than  that  great  qual- 
ity of  self-control  in  speech.  Refrain 
from  saying  the  sharp  word  that  comes 


PRESIDENT  D. 

to  your  mind  at  once  if  you  are  wounded 
or  if  you  see  something  in  the  other 
which  offends  you.  It  is  said  that  dur- 
ing courtship  we  should  keep  our  eyes 
wide  open,  but  after  marriage  keep  them 
half-shut. 

What  I  mean  may  be  illustrated  by 
a  young  woman  who  said  to  her  hus- 
band, "I  know  that  my  cooking  isn't 
good;  I  hate  it  as  much  as  you  do,  but 
do  you  find  me  sitting  around  griping 
about  it?"  This  griping  after  marriage 
is  what  makes  it  unpleasant.  I  recall 
the  words  of  Will  Carleton: 

WORDS 

"Boys  flying  kites  haul  in  their  white- 
winged  birds — 

You  can't  do  that  when  you're  flying 
words.  .  .  . 

Thoughts  unexpressed  may  sometimes 
fall  back  dead, 

But  God  himself  can't  kill  them  when 
they're  said." 

Children  in  the  Home 

Marriage  offers  an  opportunity  to 
share  in  the  love  and  care  of  children, 
and  that  is  the  true  purpose  of  mar- 
riage. One  writer  truly  says:  "Without 
children,  or  without  believing  that  chil- 
dren are  important,  marriage  is  incom- 
plete and  unfulfilled.  Children  take 
time,  trouble,  and  more  patience  than 
we  usually  have.  They  interfere  with 
freedom,  good  times,  and  luxury,  but 
children  are  the  real  purpose  and  rea- 
son behind  marriage.  If  we  do  not  put 
the  proper  value  on  parenthood,  we  are 
not  emotionally  or  socially  ready  for 
marriage. 

"Marriage  is  a  relationship  that  can- 
not survive  selfishness,  impatience, 
domineering,  inequality,  and  lack  of  re- 
spect. Marriage  is  a  relationship  that 
thrives  on  acceptance,  equality,  sharing, 
giving,  helping,  doing  one's  part,  learn- 
ing together,  enjoying  humor,"  and  a 
home  is  full  of  humor  with  children. 

The  more  you  keep  in  company  with 
your  wife,  the  happier  you  are.  Busi- 
ness takes  you  away  from  home.  She 
is  there  alone.  Do  not  let  companion- 
ship with  other  women  divide  your  af- 
fection, and  that  applies  to  woman  as 
well  as  to  man.  At  one  time  I  thought 
that  it  did  not;  that  man  was  wholly 


/ID  O.  McKAY  9 

to  blame  for  the  unrest,  the  disagree- 
ments and  sorrows  that  are  occurring 
too  frequently,  but  I  have  had  to  modify 
my  opinion.  Companionship  is  the 
means  of  perpetuating  that  love  which 
brought  about  your  union. 

In  conclusion,  for  the  proper  solution 
of  the  great  problems  of  marriage  we 
may  turn  with  safety  to  Jesus,  our  Guide. 
He  declared,  as  I  read  in  the  beginning, 
that  marriage  is  ordained  of  God  and 
that  only  under  the  most  exceptional 
conditions  should  it  be  set  aside.  In 
the  teachings  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  family  assumes  supreme  im- 
portance in  the  development  of  the  indi- 
vidual and  of  society.  "Happy  and 
thrice  happy  are  they  who  enjoy  an 
uninterrupted  union,  and  whose  love, 
unbroken  by  any  complaints,  shall  not 
dissolve  until  the  last  day." 

It  will  not  dissolve  when  sealed  by 
the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
throughout  all  eternity.  The  marriage 
ceremony,  when  thus  sealed,  produces 
happiness  and  joy  unsurpassed  by  any 
other  experience  in  the  world.  "What 
therefore  God  hath  joined  together,  let 
not  man  put  asunder." 

"Home's  not  merely  four  square  walls, 
Though  with  pictures  hung  and  gilded; 
Home  is  where  Affection  calls, 
Filled    with    shrines    the    Heart  has 
builded!  ***** 

"Home's  not  merely  roof  and  room — 
It  needs  something  to  endear  it; 
Home  is  where  the  heart  can  bloom, 
Where  there's  some  kind  [heart]  to 
cheer  it! 

What  is  home  with  none  to  meet, 
None  to  welcome,  none  to  greet  us? 
Home  is  sweet — and  only  sweet — 
Where  there's  one  we  love  to  meet  us." 

— Charles  Swain 

To  the  Church,  not  only  to  young 
people,  but  also  to  married  people,  I 
plead  this  morning  for  more  contented 
homes  brought  about  through  love, 
faithfulness,  loyalty,  self-control,  and 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  marriage 
as  set  for  us  by  revelation  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  restored  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

May  God  help  us  to  be  exemplary  to 
the  world  in  this  respect,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay:  next  speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin  will  be  our     Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill. 

BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  and  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters:  I  sincerely  hope 
that  I  may  have  an  interest  in  your 
prayers  in  the  endeavor  to  give  you  one 
or  two  thoughts  that  I  have  in  my  mind. 
It  is  needless  to  say  that  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  is  deeply  interested  in  all  the 
young  men  of  the  Church  who  hold  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  Are  fathers  and 
mothers  holding  a  weekly  home  evening 
where  they  sit  down  with  their  chil- 
dren and  discuss  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  and  what  it  will  mean  to 
them  in  their  lives? 

I  think  it  would  be  a  most  inspiring 
story — it  is  a  true  story — to  tell  of  Jesus 
the  Christ,  at  the  age  of  twelve,  being 
invited  by  Joseph  and  Mary  to  go  into 
Jerusalem  wherein  they  were  to  pay 
their  taxes,  and  while  there  the  Christ 
went  into  the  temple.  Immediately  he 
entered  into  discussion  with  learned 
men.  In  the  meantime,  Mary  and 
Joseph  started  homeward.  They  soon 
discovered  that  the  Christ  was  not  with 
them.  They  returned  to  Jerusalem  and 
found  him  in  the  temple.  Mary  was 
sorrowful  because  Christ  had  not  been 
with  them,  but  he  said  to  them, 

How  is  it  that  ye  sought  me?  wist  ye  not 
that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  business? 
(Luke  2:49.) 

I  think  the  young  men  who  will 
eventually  hold  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
who  have  in  their  hearts  the  words, 
"Wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my 
Father's  business?"  as  the  priesthood  is 
bestowed  upon  them,  will  be  anxious  to 
go  forward  and  render  the  assignments 
that  will  come  to  them. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  in  the  home  to 
discuss  with  our  young  people  the  his- 
tory of  John  the  Baptist,  a  very  young 
man  who  had  an  assignment  from  on 
high.  The  beloved  John  the  Apostle 
said,  "There  was  a  man  sent  from  God, 
whose  name  was  John,"  (John  1:6)  and 
John  was  sent  among  the  people  to 
preach  repentance  and  baptism  for  the 


remission  of  sins,  to  tell  them  that  Jesus 
the  Christ  was  to  appear,  and  in  the 
course  of  time  confer  upon  them  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

Our  sons  should  know  of  the  cruci- 
fixion of  the  Christ  and  his  resurrection; 
that  after  the  resurrection  he  appeared 
on  this,  the  American  continent,  and 
established  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  he  had  established  it  in  far-off  Jeru- 
salem. I  think  if  our  young  people  had 
that  history  and  had  it  in  their  hearts 
and  understood  fully  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  re- 
stored through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  it  would  so  impress  them  that 
they  would  endeavor  to  live  it  in  every 
way. 

It  would  be  most  inspiring  and  won- 
derful to  tell  these  young  people  some- 
thing about  the  Apostles  who  lived  in 
the  days  of  Jesus  the  Christ,  and  who 
were  selected  by  him,  particularly  of 
Peter,  James,  and  John  who  were  actual- 
ly the  presidency  of  the  first  Church 
established  by  the  Christ.  They  should 
know  and  understand  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  was  actually  organized 
by  Christ  in  the  days  of  these  apostles. 

They  should  know  something  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon — how  Joseph  Smith 
received  the  same — and  in  that  wonder- 
ful book  we  find  the  story  of  the  Christ 
and  his  gospel  in  its  fulness.  It  is  an 
interesting  thing  to  tell  them,  too,  how 
that  same  Christ  appeared  among  the 
Nephites,  and  among  other  things  the 
Nephites  heard  God  the  Father  saying, 
"Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I  have  glori- 
fied my  name — hear  ye  him,"  (3  Nephi 
11:7)  and  thereby,  came  the  establish- 
ment of  the  great  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
here  upon  the  American  continent. 

Thereafter,  I  think  it  is  a  fine  thing  to 
discuss  with  these  young  people  and 
point  out  to  them  that  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  was  lost  because  men 
were  seeking  different  doctrines,  that 
the  priesthood  had  been  taken  away,  and 
there  was  darkness  upon  the  earth.  It 


BISHOP  JOSEPi 

would  be  inspiring  to  discuss  the  Prophet 
Joseph  who  went  to  the  Lord  and  asked 
the  Lord  wherein  he  might  find  the 
true  Church,  and  in  reply  the  Lord  ap- 
peared and  introduced  the  Christ  him- 
self, saying,  "This  is  My  Beloved  Son. 
Hear  Him!"  (P  of  G  P,  Joseph  Smith 
2:17.) 

It  would  be  a  source  of  inspiration 
for  our  young  people  to  know  that  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  was  brought  back 
to  the  earth  through  John  the  Baptist 
and  bestowed  upon  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowdery  and  also  that  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  was  restored  by 
Peter,  James,  and  John,  the  Apostles  of 
Jesus  the  Christ  in  a  former  day.  These 
young  people  should  know  that  these 
are  realities,  that  they  actually  hap- 
pened, and  then  there  will  be  a  desire 
to  live  the  gospel  and  enjoy  all  of  the 
blessings  therein. 

As  parents,  we  have  great  responsi- 
bilities, as  President  McKay  has  already 
pointed  out  to  us.  I  suggest  that  some- 
time you  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, section  68,  verses  25-28,  with 
reference  to  our  responsibilities  as  par- 
ents. The  Lord  made  it  very  clear,  as 
far  as  our  sons  and  daughters  are  con- 
cerned, that  we  should  teach  them  the 
doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ, 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  baptism,  and 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands.  Then  the  Lord  went  on 
and  said  this  to  us  in  conclusion:  "And 
they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to 
pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  the 
Lord."  (D  &  C  68:28.) 

We  should  read  to  them  about  the 
appearance  of  John  the  Baptist  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  when  he  said  this: 

Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the 
name  of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priesthood 
of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys  of  the  min- 
istering of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance and  of  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins;  and  this  shall  never 
be  taken  again  from  the  earth,  until  the 
sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering  unto 
the  Lord  in  righteousness.  (D  &  C  13.) 

These  young  men  are  ordained  mem- 
bers of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  at  the 
age  of  twelve.  In  the  minds  of  many 
people,  this  may  seem  questionable;  but 
it  should  not  be,  because  if  they  will 
but  read  or  hear  the  words  again,  and 
repeat  them  and  remember  them,  the 


L.  WIRTHLIN  11 

words  of  Christ,  when  he  spoke  to  his 
mother  and  said:  "Wist  ye  not  that  I 
must  be  about  my  Father's  business?"  I 
am  sure  that  every  deacon  will  have 
that  same  attitude. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  if  a  father 
will  tell  his  son  what  it  means  to  pass 
the  sacrament  and  what  it  means  to  be 
called  by  the  bishop  to  go  out  and 
collect  the  fast  offerings  for  the  good  of 
those  who  are  in  need.  It  is  an  in- 
spiring lesson  that  ought  to  be  taught 
to  these  young  men  to  the  end  that  day 
by  day  they  will  endeavor  to  live  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and 
actually  have  in  their  hearts  his  spirit. 
It  is  a  marvelous  thing  to  talk  to  these 
young  men  about  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
who  at  the  age  of  fourteen  asked  the 
Lord,  "Lord,  where  may  I  find  the 
Church  of  the  Christ?"  and  in  answer 
thereto,  the  Father  and  the  Son  ap- 
peared, and  the  Father  said,  "This  is 
My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  And 
Joseph,  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  heard 
these  words  of  the  Christ  and  received 
direction  from  on  high  as  to  how  the 
Church  should  be  established. 

It  is  well  to  remember  that  many  of 
these  young  men  who  hold  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  at  the  age  of  fourteen  are 
called  to  be  teachers — to  go  out  among 
the  people  and  teach  them  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  and 
to  render  such  other  service  as  the  bishop 
may  feel  is  necessary. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  think  of 
the  priests,  these  young  men  who  at 
the  age  of  sixteen  become  active  in  the 
same  assignments  as  did  John  the  Bap- 
tist. It  is  marvelous  to  know  that  these 
young  men  have  the  right  to  preach  re- 
pentance, perform  the  ordinance  of 
baptism,  and  bless  the  Sacrament.  John 
the  Baptist  did  not  have  the  privilege 
of  blessing  the  Sacrament  because  he 
had  passed  on,  and  the  Sacrament  of 
course  was  established  just  before  Christ 
was  crucified.  So  these  young  priests  of 
today  have  opportunities  that  John  the 
Baptist  did  not  enjoy.  We  also  read  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon:  "After  they  had 
prayed  unto  the  Father  in  the  name  of 
Christ,  they  laid  their  hands  upon  them, 
and  said: 

"In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  I  ordain 
you  to  be  a  priest,  (or,  if  he  be  a  teacher) 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  6 

I  ordain  you  to  be  a  teacher,  to  preach 
repentance  and  remission  of  sins 
through  Jesus  Christ,  by  the  endurance 
of  faith  on  his  name  to  the  end.  Amen." 
(Moroni  3:2-3.) 

Responsibility  devolves  upon  bishops, 
bishops'  counselors,  fathers  and  mothers, 
that  we  should  impress  upon  these 
young  men  the  sacredness  of  blessing 
the  Sacrament,  and  what  the  Sacrament 
means  and  its  purpose;  and  also  the 
privilege  of  performing  the  ordinance 
of  baptism.  If  these  young  men  under- 
stand the  full  meaning  of  the  Sacra- 
ment and  preaching  repentance,  they 
will  become  so  interested  that  they  will 
try  to  live  lives  in  harmony  with  Jesus 
the  Christ  and  say,  as  he  said:  "Wist 
ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's 
business?" 

So,  brethren  and  sisters,  as  parents 
we  have  great  responsibility,  as  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  already  pointed  out,  in 
our  homes;  and  I  think  one  of  the 
greatest  responsibilities  that  falls  upon 
us,  and  one  we  should  follow  closely, 
is  the  matter  of  holding  a  home  evening 
with  our  young  people.  Call  on  some 
of  them  to  pray.  Give  some  of  them 
the  assignment  to  tell  us  something 
about  faith,  something  about  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  something  about 
the  matter  of  holding  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  If  that  is  done,  there  is  no 
question  that  these  young  people  will 
meet  all  of  the  requirements  that  come 
to  them  through  the  gift  and  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Only  last  Sunday,  I  attended  a  con- 
ference where  many  of  these  young 
people  had  the  opportunity  of  bearing 
testimony.  It  was  a  great  thrill  to  hear 
them  say  that  they  know  that  Jesus  the 
Christ  lives — that  they  know  that  this 
is  his  Church.  Some  might  question  it 
because  of  their  age;  but  nevertheless 
if  they  receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  they  will  have  that  knowledge. 

I  recall  the  time  when  I  was  baptized 
and  confirmed  a  member  of  the  Church 
at  fast  meeting.  I  had  a  peculiar  feeling, 
and  something  came  to  my  soul  that 
gave  me  happiness  and  joy — something 
that  I  had  never  experienced  before.  On 
the  way  home,  I  said  to  Mother:  "I  had 
a  peculiar  feeling,  Mother,  when  the 
bishop  laid  his  hands  upon  my  head  and 


First  Day 

confirmed  me  a  member  of  the  Church, 
and  said,  'Receive  the  Holy  Ghost.'" 

"Son,  what  was  the  feeling?" 

I  said,  "A  feeling  of  happiness,  a  feel- 
ing that  filled  my  soul — something  I 
have  never  had  before." 

She  said,  "What  did  he  say  to  you, 
Son?" 

I  said,  '"Receive  the  Holy  Ghost.'" 
So  mother  said  to  me,  "Son,  without 
a  doubt  the  Lord  was  good  enough  to 
bestow  upon  you  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,"  and  from  that  time  until  this 
time  I  have  known  that  Jesus  the  Christ 
lives.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  know  our  President 
here  is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  those  who 
assist  him.  I  know  that  these  twelve 
men  are  all  apostles,  each  one  of  them, 
with  the  same  power  and  privileges  and 
rights  that  Peter,  James,  and  John  en- 
joyed in  their  time  and  age. 

So,  parents,  it  is  a  wonderful  thing 
that  your  sons  who  hold  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  will  have  the  feeling  and 
the  desire  to  go  forward  and  to  render 
every  service  that  is  required  of  them, 
that  they  may  follow  the  admonition 
in  the  fourth  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  verse  3: 

Therefore,  if  ye  have  desires  to  serve  God 
ye  are  called  to  the  work. 

And  they  are  called  if  they  receive  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  especially  if  you 
and  I  will  so  encourage  them  and  teach 
them. 

So,  fathers  and  mothers,  I  think,  too, 
of  what  the  Lord  has  said  to  you  and 
me,  as  parents,  when  he  said  this:  "And 
they  [speaking  of  us]  shall  also  teach 
their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord."  (D  &  C  68:28.) 
So  there  is  no  question  about  prayer; 
there  is  no  question  about  walking  up- 
rightly before  the  Lord,  but  that  he  will 
bless  them  and  inspire  them  and  lead 
them  on,  and  that  everyone  of  them  will 
have  the  same  feeling  as  the  Christ  had 
at  the  age  of  twelve,  when  he  said: 
"Wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my 
Father's  business?"  This  I  pray  will  be 
the  blessing  of  every  member  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  every  young 
person  who  has  membership  in  this 
Church,  which  I  humbly  ask  and  pray 
for  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Savior.  Amen. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


13 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Before  Elder  Sill  speaks  to  us,  the 
Choir  and  Congregation  will  join  in 
singing  two  stanzas  of  "O  Ye  Moun- 
tains High." 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  and  the  congregation 


joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "O  Ye 
Mountains  High." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now  ad- 
dress us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I ast  Sunday  we  celebrated  the  event 
which  initiated  upon  this  earth  the 
universal  bodily  resurrection.  Great 
events  have  a  way  of  increasing  in  im- 
portance in  our  minds  when  we  hold 
them  up  for  study  and  contemplation 
and  try  to  determine  their  significance, 
particularly  as  they  apply  to  our  own 
lives.  To  assist  in  this  process,  we  have 
adopted  the  very  helpful  custom  of  set- 
ting aside  special  days  to  think  about 
special  things.  In  addition  to  Easter 
we  have  many  other  wonderful  days. 

We  have  set  aside  the  thirteenth  of 
next  month  as  Mother's  Day,  and  we 
hold  the  significance  of  this  great  occa- 
sion with  all  that  it  stands  for,  up  before 
our  minds,  and  as  a  result  the  quality 
of  our  lives  tends  to  adjust  upward 
to  maintain  the  level  of  our  thoughts. 

Each  Fourth  of  July  we  set  aside  a 
day  to  celebrate  our  nation's  birth- 
day, and  we  think  about  our  freedom, 
and  what  it  means,  and  what  it  has 
cost,  and  what  would  happen  if  it  were 
lost,  and  what  we  might  be  able  to  do 
to  further  promote  the  great  idea  of 
freedom  in  our  lives,  and  in  the  world 
about  us. 

On  the  twenty-fifth  of  December  we 
set  aside  another  day  and  hold  up  before 
our  minds  the  life  and  teachings  of  Him 
who  was  ordained  to  be  the  Savior  of 
the  world  and  the  Redeemer  of  men. 

And  we  think  about  his  example  and 
his  sacrifice  and  what  they  mean  to  us, 
what  he  had  in  mind  when  he  said,  "If 
I  be  lifted  up,  I  will  draw  all  men  unto 
me."  (See  John  12:32.) 

It  has  been  said  that  the  human  mind 
has  some  of  the  qualities  of  the  tendrils 
of  a  climbing  vine;  that  is,  it  tends  to 
attach  itself  and  draw  itself  upward  by 
what  it  is  put  in  contact  with.   We  set 


aside  these  special  days  to  put  our  minds 
in  contact  with  the  greatest  ideas  and 
ideals  in  the  world.  From  this  point  of 
view,  think  what  the  effect  has  been  in 
America  over  the  years  to  both  old  and 
young,  of  looking  up  to  the  virtues  and 
accomplishments  of  Washington  and 
Lincoln,  both  of  whom  we  believe  to 
have  been  raised  up  by  God,  one  to  be 
the  father  of  this  divinely  favored  coun- 
try and  the  other  to  save  it  from  dis- 
solution. The  lives  of  both  of  these 
great  men  so  rich  in  integrity,  honor, 
and  devotion  to  duty,  are  held  up  before 
our  minds  to  draw  us  to  a  higher  level 
of  thinking. 

This  year  happens  to  be  the  250th 
anniversary  of  the  birth  of  Benjamin 
Franklin,  and  during  this  year  through- 
out America  much  is  being  written  and 
spoken  about  the  outstanding  character 
qualities  of  this  great  American.  And 
as  our  minds  attach  themselves,  we  tend 
to  absorb  these  qualities  to  ennoble  our 
own  lives.  Each  of  these  special  occa- 
sions serves  a  necessary  and  different 
purpose. 

This  morning  I  would  like  to  put  your 
minds  in  contact  with  the  fact  that 
this  is  the  150th  anniversary  year  of  the 
birth  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  whose 
life  marks  the  beginning  of  the  greatest 
and  final  gospel  dispensation.  The  im- 
portance of  this  great  event  has  an  un- 
usual and  overwhelming  significance  in 
the  life  of  every  human  being  who  lives 
upon  the  earth. 

In  holding  this  thought  up  for  your 
consideration,  I  would  like  to  take  you 
back  in  history  some  3700  years  to  the 
birth  of  another  prophet  by  the  name  of 
Joseph.  This  Joseph  was  the  son  of 
Jacob  and  one  of  the  twelve  brothers 
who  later  became  the  leaders  of  the 


14  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  6 

Twelve  Tribes.  Like  Joseph  Smith,  this 
Joseph  also  received  manifestations  of 
the  will  of  the  Lord  at  a  very  early 
age.  This  apparent  favor  caused  some 
jealousies  among  his  brothers,  and  when 
Joseph  was  seventeen  years  old,  he 
was  sent  by  his  father  to  inquire 
about  the  welfare  of  his  brothers  who 
were  tending  the  family  flocks  at 
Dothan.  When  they  saw  him  approach- 
ing, they  said,  "Behold  the  dreamer 
cometh,"  and  they  plotted  to  take  his 
life.  But  by  the  intercession  of  one  of 
his  brothers,  a  compromise  was  reached, 
and  they  sold  Joseph  for  twenty  pieces 
of  silver,  which  is  approximately  eleven 
dollars  in  American  money,  to  a  group 
of  Ishmaelites  who  were  going  down 
into  Egypt  to  sell  their  spices. 

In  Egypt  God  did  not  forsake  Joseph 
but  continued  to  give  him  other  mani- 
festations of  the  divine  will.  This  fact 
was  known  to  some  of  Joseph's  asso- 
ciates, and  fifteen  years  later  when 
Pharaoh  had  a  dream  which  troubled 
him,  Joseph  was  sent  for.  Joseph  told 
Pharaoh  that  there  would  come  seven 
years  of  great  plenty.  These  would  be 
followed  by  seven  years  of  famine,  and 
Joseph  advised  Pharaoh  to  build  grana- 
ries and  store  up  the  corn  in  the  good 
years  to  reduce  the  suffering  during  the 
years  of  famine.  Pharaoh,  seeing  that 
Joseph  was  a  man  of  ability  and  under- 
standing and  that  the  Lord  was  with 
him,  appointed  him  to  be  the  manager 
of  this  great  Egyptian  welfare  program. 
Then  Joseph  built  granaries  and  stored 
up  the  corn  during  these  seven  years 
of  plenty. 

Finally  the  years  of  abundance  were 
over,  and  the  great  famine  began. 
Then  Joseph  opened  the  granaries,  and 
all  of  the  surrounding  nations,  including 
the  brothers  of  Joseph,  came  to  Egypt 
to  buy  corn.  When  the  brothers  learned 
that  Joseph  was  now  a  man  of  great 
authority  and  power,  they  were  natural- 
ly very  frightened.  But  Joseph  quieted 
their  fears  with  these  words.  He  said, 

...  be  not  grieved  nor  angry  with  your- 
selves, .  .  .  that  ye  sold  me  hither:  for  God 
did  send  me  before  you  to  preserve  life. 
(Gen.  45:5.) 

And  thus  for  approximately  eleven 
dollars,  several  nations  were  saved  from 
starvation. 


First  Day 

It  is  a  little  bit  difficult  to  understand 
"a  famine"  when  one  of  our  most  press- 
ing problems  is  surplus  and  oversupply. 
But  it  is  even  more  difficult  when  men 
have  pushed  God  out  of  their  interests, 
to  understand  another  kind  of  famine 
which  he  foretold  should  come  upon  the 
earth  in  consequence  of  disobedience 
and  sin.  In  foretelling  this  famine,  the 
Prophet  Amos  said, 

Behold  the  days  come,  sayeth  the  Lord 
God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine  in  the  land, 
not  a  famine  for  bread,  nor  a  thirst  for 
water,  but  of  hearing  the  words  of  the 
Lord: 

And  they  [men]  shall  wander  from  sea 
to  sea,  and  from  the  north  even  to  the 
east,  and  shall  run  to  and  fro  to  seek  after 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  shall  not  find  it. 
(Amos  8:11-12.) 

This  famine  was  also  literally  ful- 
filled as  foretold.   Isaiah  had  said, 

The  earth  also  is  defiled  under  the  in- 
habitants thereof;  because  they  have  trans- 
gressed the  laws,  changed  the  ordinances, 
broken  the  everlasting  covenant.  (Isaiah 
24:5.) 

The  ministry  of  the  Master  himself 
was  permitted  to  continue  for  only  three 
short  years.  Then  one  by  one  each  of 
the  apostles  was  put  to  death.  Ac- 
cording to  tradition  Peter,  Andrew, 
Simon,  and  Philip  were  crucified;  James 
and  Paul  were  beheaded;  Bartholomew 
was  flayed  alive;  Matthew  was  slain 
with  a  battle-ax;  Thomas  was  run 
through  with  a  lance;  James  was  beaten 
to  death;  Thaddeus  was  shot  through 
with  arrows;  Barnabas  was  stoned;  Mark 
was  dragged  to  death  in  the  streets  of 
Alexandria;  and  John,  the  one  surviving 
apostle,  was  banished  to  that  rocky  little 
island  in  the  Aegean  Sea  called  Patmos. 

The  Church,  thus  left  without  divine 
leadership,  soon  sank  to  the  lower  level 
of  a  strictly  human  institution,  and  as 
conditions  went  from  bad  to  worse,  that 
prophecy  of  Isaiah  saw  complete  fulfil- 
ment which  said,  "For,  behold,  the 
darkness  shall  cover  the  earth,  and  gross 
darkness  the  people."  (Isaiah  60:2.) 

But  as  has  been  said,  God  always  pro- 
vides the  remedy  before  the  plague.  Six 
hundred  years  B.C.  a  little  group  of 
Israelites  who  were  descendants  of  Joseph 
were  led  away  from  Jerusalem  by  the 
Lord,  headed  for  a  far-off  land  which 


ELDER  STER 

we  now  know  as  America.  They 
brought  with  them  their  records  and 
the  writings  of  their  prophets,  including 
the  writings  of  this  same  Prophet  Joseph 
who  was  sent  into  Egypt  "to  preserve 
life."  After  their  arrival  in  the  promised 
land,  Lehi  read  to  them  a  prophecy 
made  by  their  famous  ancestor,  Joseph, 
about  events  that  should  take  place  in 
the  latter  days  in  this  new  land. 
He  said, 

Yea,  Joseph  truly  said:  Thus  saith  the 
Lord  unto  me:  A  choice  seer  will  I  raise 
up  out  of  the  fruit  of  thy  loins;  and  he 
shall  be  esteemed  highly  among  the  fruit 
of  thy  loins.  And  unto  him  will  I  give  com- 
mandment that  he  shall  do  a  work  for 
the  fruit  of  thy  loins,  his  brethren,  which 
shall  be  of  great  worth  unto  them,  even  to 
the  bringing  of  them  to  the  knowledge  of 
the  covenants  which  I  have  made  with  thy 
fathers.  .  .  . 

And  his  name  shall  be  called  after  me; 
and  it  shall  be  after  the  name  of  his  father. 
And  he  shall  be  like  unto  me;  for  the  thing, 
which  the  Lord  shall  bring  forth  by  his 
hand,  by  the  power  of  the  Lord  shall  bring 
my  people  unto  salvation.  (2  Nephi  3:7,  15.) 

Joseph  Smith  fulfilled  these  prophe- 
cies. Joseph  had  said,  "His  name  shall 
be  called  after  me,"  Joseph.  "And  it 
shall  be  after  the  name  of  his  father." 
Joseph  Smith's  father's  name  was  Joseph. 
Then  the  prophet  said,  "And  he  shall 
be  like  unto  me."  Joseph,  the  son  of 
Jacob,  was  sent  before  the  face  of  the 
Egyptian  famine  to  preserve  life.  And 
Joseph  Smith  was  sent  before  the  face 
of  the  spiritual  famine  spoken  of  by 
Amos,  for  exactly  the  same  purpose,  to 
unlock  the  granaries  of  spiritual  truth, 
to  dispel  the  darkness  that  covered  the 
earth,  and  make  possible  that  every 
living  soul  might  have  "life  everlasting." 

One  of  the  most  thrilling  events  that 
has  ever  happened  in  the  world  came  as 
a  part  of  the  fulfilment  of  this  prophecy, 
when  in  the  early  spring  of  1820,  God 
the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
reappeared  upon  this  earth  to  open  this 
greatest  and  final  gospel  dispensation. 
And  God  has  placed  in  the  hands  of 
men  three  great  volumes  of  new  scrip- 
ture, outlining  in  every  detail  the  sim- 
ple principles  of  the  gospel,  that  all  men 
might  be  fed  the  bread  of  life  and  be 
enabled  thereby  to  work  out  their  in- 
dividual personal  exaltation. 

But  it  is  possible  to  perish  even  in  the 


!.NG  W.  SILL  15 

presence  of  plenty.  In  the  early  gold 
rush  days  of  this  country  many  men  lost 
their  lives  trying  to  cross  what  was 
known  as  the  great  American  desert. 
Later  when  their  bodies  were  recovered, 
it  was  found  that  many  of  them  had  died 
in  close  proximity  to  the  water  holes. 
With  just  a  little  additional  knowledge, 
they  would  have  been  able  to  have 
saved  their  own  lives. 

This  experience  of  the  forty-niners 
has  its  spiritual  counterpart  in  our  own 
day.  Emerson  indicated  this  possibility 
when  he  said, 

On  the  brink  of  the  waters  of  life  and 
truth  we  are  miserably  dying.  Sometimes 
we  are  furthest  away  when  we  are  closest 
by.  We  stand  on  the  brink  of  an  ocean 
of  power,  but  each  must  take  the  step  that 
would  bring  him  there. 

It  is  always  a  pathetic  tragedy  when 
that  step  is  not  taken. 

This  is  evidenced  by  the  fact  that 
nineteen  hundred  years  ago  unheeding 
men  lived  in  the  very  presence  of  the 
Son  of  God,  and  in  response  to  his  in- 
vitation to  partake  of  the  truths  of  eter- 
nal life  they  merely  said,  "His  blood  be 
upon  us,  and  on  our  children."  (Matt. 
27:25.)  And  so  it  has  been.  They  were 
so  near — yet  they  were  so  far  away. 
How  this  event  should  challenge  our 
initiative  and  put  us  on  our  feet,  earn- 
estly seeking  that  greatest  of  all  bless- 
ings, eternal  exaltation! 

But  nineteen  hundred  years  have  come 
and  gone  since  that  time,  and  the  lives 
of  men  are  still  being  wasted  by  the 
devastation  of  spiritual  famine.  Cer- 
tainly it  is  just  as  true  now  as  it  was 
then,  that  "there  is  only  one  name  given 
whereby  man  must  be  saved."  (See  Acts 
4:12.)  Yet  out  of  over  two  billion  peo- 
ple who  presently  occupy  the  earth, 
only  one-third  even  bear  the  name  of 
Christian.  And  this  one-third  is  divided 
into  some  250  contending  sects,  all 
claiming  to  accept  the  Bible  as  the  in- 
spired word  of  God  and  the  only  author- 
itative rule  of  faith  and  doctrine.  Their 
confusion  on  even  the  most  simple 
points  of  doctrine  is  indicated  by  the 
report  that  some  seventy-eight  of  these 
baptize  by  immersion,  many  sprinkle, 
sixty-eight  have  optional  forms;  sixty- 
seven  practise  infant  baptism,  many 
have  no  baptism.   Thirty-nine  require 


16 

Friday,  April  6 

no  adherent  to  creed  or  doctrine  of  any 
kind. 

Almost  every  Protestant  church  came 
into  existence  because  of  "a  protest"  or 
an  "argument."  The  division  of  opinion 
caused  by  the  Civil  War  was  responsi- 
ble for  the  formation  of  many  new 
churches.  The  Church  of  England  was 
organized  because  the  Pope  refused  to 
give  Henry  VIII  a  divorce.  There  are 
many  "state  churches."  It  was  Emperor 
Constantine,  not  the  servants  of  the 
Lord,  that  made  Christianity  the  church 
of  the  Roman  Empire. 

And  as  this  famine  has  run  its  long, 
destructive  course,  many  of  the  truths 
that  Jesus  came  to  give  to  the  world  have 
been  lost,  even  to  "know  God"  which 
Jesus  declared  was  "life  eternal." 

One  of  the  most  popular  of  present 
day  ministers  recently  said,  "No  one 
can  possibly  know  about  God.  God  is 
absolutely  immeasurable,  undiscoverable 
and  undiscemible."  He  said,  "He  has 
no  body  or  shape."  St.  Augustine  at- 
tempted to  describe  the  nature  of  God 
as  a  circle  whose  center  was  everywhere 
and  circumference  nowhere. 

In  the  severity  of  this  famine  of  spir- 
itual understanding,  men  have  denied 
personality  to  deity.  They  have  also 
deprived  him  of  his  body.  They  have 
left  him  without  senses,  faculties  or 
feelings.  And  as  a  natural  consequence, 
the  world  in  large  part  is  still  where 
Paul  found  it  nineteen  hundred  years 
ago,  worshiping  at  the  feet  of  an  "un- 
known God,"  and  this  without  proper 
understanding  of  even  the  most  simple 
principles  taught  by  Jesus  and  recorded 
in  the  Bible.  These  include  such  im- 
portant doctrines  as  the  literal  bodily 
resurrection,  the  degrees  of  glory,  the 
pre-existence  of  man,  salvation  for  the 
dead,  the  functions  of  the  Aaronic  and 
Melchizedek  Priesthoods,  the  proper  or- 
ganization of  the  Church,  what  the 
name  of  the  Church  should  be,  the 
function  of  sacred  temples,  the  eternity 
of  the  family  unit,  and  many  other  im- 
portant doctrines  vital  to  our  salvation 
and  all  plainly  taught  by  Jesus  and  re- 
corded in  the  Bible. 

So  far  as  I  know,  the  most  important 
fact  there  is  in  the  world  today  is  that 
God  has  again  restored  the  priesthood, 
and  his  voice  has  regiven  that  divine 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

commission  saying,  "Go  ye  therefore, 
and  teach  all  nations,  .  .  ."  (Matt. 
28:19.)  Amos  said  that  many  should 
"run  to  and  fro  seeking  the  word  of  the 
Lord  but  should  not  find  it."  One  of 
the  reasons  that  some  can't  find  it  is 
that  as  of  old,  some  have  eyes  that  see 
not.  There  are  some  others  who  can't 
find  it  because  some  of  us  who  have 
access  to  it,  keep  our  lights  hidden  under 
a  bushel.  There  are  others  who  can't 
find  it  because  of  their  confusion  when 
our  lives  don't  accord  with  our  teach- 
ings. 

The  restoration  of  the  gospel  has  a 
vital  significance  in  the  life  of  every 
person  upon  the  earth.  This  cannot  be 
evaded  nor  avoided.  This  responsibility 
we  must  understand.  In  one  of  the 
most  meaningful  of  all  latter  day  scrip- 
tures, the  Lord  has  said,  "It  must  needs 
be  that  all  men  must  be  left  without 
excuse,"  (see  D  &  C  88:82)  and  that 
applies  to  those  who  fail  to  hear,  and 
even  more  particularly  to  those  who 
fail  to  teach,  for  those  who  bear  the 
divine  commission  to  dispense  spiritual 
truth  must  also  share  in  the  prospective 
condemnation  spoken  of  by  Paul  who 
said,  "Woe  is  me  if  I  preach  not  the 
gospel." 

And  so  during  this  anniversary  year, 
we  hold  up  before  our  minds  and  the 
minds  of  all  men  the  tremendous  mes- 
sage of  the  restoration,  and  pray  that 
our  minds  may  attach  themselves  to  the 
revealed  word  of  the  Lord  with  such 
great  power,  diligence,  and  faith,  that 
this  devastating  famine  may  be  dis- 
pelled, that  all  men  may  be  able  to 
find  the  clear  waters  of  eternal  life,  and 
that  because  of  our  obedience  to  the 
gospel,  that  God  may  thereby  be  en- 
abled to  draw  all  of  his  children  up- 
ward to  him  to  inherit  the  celestial 
kingdom. 

May  God  bless  us  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Ster- 
ling W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 


17 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


In  these  few  minutes  allotted  to  me, 
I  humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me.  I  feel  the  weight  of  the 
responsibility.  I  certainly  need  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord.  I  want  to  try  and 
leave  with  you  one  idea  that  you  may 
carry  back  into  your  own  private  think- 
ing and  life  to  magnify,  to  bless,  to 
make  beautiful.  And  I  believe  out  of 
my  own  thinking  and  prayers  it  is  here. 

There  is  a  phrase  that  is  often  heard 
among  the  Latter-day  Saint  people.  It 
was  heard  when  I  was  a  boy.  The  four 
standard  works  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Have  you 
read  them?  Do  we  know  what  they  are? 
I  often  think  of  the  inspiration  and  help 
that  has  come  to  me  as  I  have  read  the 
word  of  the  Lord. 

The  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price!  There  are  the  four  great 
standard  works  of  the  Church. 

During  the  last  year  or  two  I  have 
tried  to  make  them  a  part  of  my  life. 
I  humbly  bear  testimony  that  in  them 
there  is  inspiration,  there  is  strength, 
there  is  confidence,  there  is  the  word  of 
the  Lord. 

Let  me  read  a  few  sentences  of  the 
Bible.  I  quote  from  the  27th  Psalm — 
one  of  my  favorite  passages  of  scripture. 
They  are  all  familiar  to  you. 

The  Lord  is  my  light  and  my  salvation; 
whom  shall  I  fear?  the  Lord  is  the  strength 
of  my  life;  of  whom  shall  I  be  afraid?  .  .  . 

Though  an  host  should  encamp  against 
me,  my  heart  shall  not  fear:  though  war 
should  rise  against  me,  in  this  will  I  be 
confident. 

One  thing  have  I  desired  of  the  Lord, 
that  will  I  seek  after;  that  I  may  dwell  in 
the  house  of  the  Lord  all  the  days  of  my 
life,  to  behold  the  beauty  of  the  Lord,  and 
to  enquire  in  his  temple. 

For  in  the  time  of  trouble  he  shall  hide 
me  in  his  pavilion:  in  the  secret  of  his 
tabernacle  shall  he  hide  me;  he  shall  set 
me  up  upon  a  rock. 

And  now  shall  mine  head  be  lifted  up 
above  mine  enemies  round  about  me: 
therefore  will  I  offer  in  his  tabernacle  sac- 
rifices of  joy;  I  will  sing,  yea,  I  will  sing 
praises  unto  the  Lord.  .  .  . 


Wait  on  the  Lord:  be  of  good  courage, 
and  he  shall  strengthen  thine  heart:  wait, 
I  say,  on  the  Lord.  (Psa.  27:1,  3-6,  14.) 

There  is  great  beauty  and  strength  in 
the  Bible.  Do  you  read  the  Bible?  Do 
you  read  it  prayerfully?  A  library  of 
sixty-six  books  written  by  many  men, 
covering  nearly  three  thousand  years. 
The  general  theme  is  a  true  and  living 
God  sounding  the  call  to  reform  and 
rededication. 

The  Old  Testament  is  the  divine  fore- 
showing of  his  coming.  The  New  Test- 
ament, the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  our 
Lord,  the  masterpiece  of  world  litera- 
ture, the  most  majestic  exposition  of  re- 
ligion ever  given  to  man. 

The  first  five  books  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment stand  at  the  head  of  the  literature 
of  the  world.  Words  like  these: 

In  the  beginning  God  created  the  heaven 
and  the  earth.  .  .  . 

And  God  said,  Let  there  be  light:  and 
there  was  light.  .  .  . 

So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image, 
in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him.  (Gen. 
1:1,  3,  27.) 

It  contains  the  great  teachings  of  the 
Ten  Commandments,  the  Sermon  on 
the  Mount.  Fewer  words,  if  any,  have 
such  a  great  influence  for  good  upon  the 
human  family.  Here  by  prayerful  study 
we  may  learn  the  truer  values  of  life, 
the  road  to  real  happiness. 

I  am  going  to  try  to  make  it  a  real 
part  of  my  life.  Out  of  prayerful  thought 
I  bear  testimony  and  invite  you  that 
this  year  may  be  a  great  year  for  you 
and  for  me  in  this  glorious  literature. 

Another  of  these  standard  works  of 
the  Church  is  the  Book  of  Mormon,  to 
which  I  refer  briefly.  I  read  from  Third 
Nephi: 

Therefore  ye  must  always  pray  unto  the 
Father  in  my  name; 

And  whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  the  Father 
in  my  name,  which  is  right,  believing  that 
ye  shall  receive,  behold  it  shall  be  given 
unto  you. 

Pray  in  your  families  unto  the  Father, 
always  in  my  name,  that  your  wives  and 
your  children  may  be  blessed.  (3  Nephi 
18:19-21.) 


18  GENERAL  C 

Friday,  April  6 

A  lonely  boy  in  Shanghai,  China, 
hunts  for  a  Mormon.  No  one  is  found. 
He  wants  to  find  one  of  his  own 
people.  "Try  a  Latter-day  Saint,"  says 
a  fellow  companion.  "They  are  some- 
times called  that."  Discouraged  he  goes 
back  to  his  bunk.  He  finds  the  fellows 
waiting  with  a  package  on  his  cot.  He 
opens  it  and  finds  the  package  wrapped 
in  a  white  box.  At  first  he  thinks  it 
is  a  box  of  candy  and  goodies,  and 
then  when  he  looks  closer  he  sees  a 
name.  Reverently  he  says,  "Hello, 
Mother."  "A  Book  of  Mormon,"  says  a 
fellow  nearby. 

Inspirations  came  to  three  of  these 
chaps.  They  pledged  together  that  they 
would  read  the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, and  the  other  general  scriptures. 

...  the  Lord  giveth  no  commandments 
unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall 
prepare  a  way  for  them  that  they  may 
accomplish  the  thing  which  he  command- 
eth  them.  (1  Nephi  3:7.) 

This  startled  the  imagination  and  the 
will  of  these  fellows  to  go  after  this 
task. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  another 
of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church. 
In  Section  78: 

And  ye  cannot  bear  all  things  now;  never- 
theless, be  of  good  cheer,  for  I  will  lead 
you  along.  The  kingdom  is  yours  and  the 
blessings  thereof  are  yours,  and  the  riches 
of  eternity  are  yours. 

And  he  who  receiveth  all  things  with 
thankfulness  shall  be  made  glorious;  and 
the  things  of  this  earth  shall  be  added  unto 
him,  even  an  hundred  fold,  yea,  more. 
(D  &  C  78:18-19.) 

When  we  had  finished  reading  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  my  wife  said, 
"Oscar,  I  think  we  should  say  a  prayer." 
We  prayed. 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  another  of 
the  four  standard  works  of  the  Church. 
This  book  contains  the  Book  of  Moses, 
the  Book  of  Abraham,  and  extracts  from 
the  history  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet, 
and  other  important  words  of  the  Lord. 

I  close  with  these  words  from  the 
Third  Epistle  of  John,  4th  verse: 


First  Day 

I  have  no  greater  joy  than  to  hear  that 
my  children  walk  in  truth. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  as  we  prayer- 
fully study  the  four  great  standard  works 
of  the  Church. 

May  the  Lord  bless  our  children  that 
they  may  ever  walk  in  truth,  that  by 
the  reading  or  studying  of  these  great 
books,  there  shall  come  to  them  inspi- 
ration, I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with, 
"The  Gospel  Restored."  This  is  arranged 
by  Dr.  Gerrit  de  Jong,  to  be  conducted 
by  Elder  Ralph  Woodward. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Austin  Gudmundsen,  president  of 
the  Inglewood  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 

The  music  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  conducted 
by  Elder  Ralph  Woodward.  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  has  been  at  the  organ. 
This  group  of  choice  young  people  with 
their  inspirational  singing  will  be  with 
us  again  this  afternoon. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the  se- 
lection, "The  Gospel  Restored." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Austin  Gudmundsen,  president 
of  the  Inglewood  Stake,  will  now  offer 
the  benediction  and  the  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock. 


Elder  Austin  Gudmundsen,  president 
of  the  Inglewood  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  second  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.m., 
Friday,  April  6,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  were  present  at  this  ses- 
sion and  furnished  the  choral  music  for 
the  meeting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  morning,  you  will  remember,  we 
announced  that  some  of  our  servicemen 
in  the  Air  Force  from  Scott  Air  Field, 
Belleville,  Illinois,  were  flying  to  attend 
this  Conference  by  permission  and  really 
by  appointment  of  their  superior  offi- 
cers; also  there  was  another  airplane 
group  from  Oklahoma,  the  Enid  Air 
Force.  Here  is  a  note:  "You  might  wish 
to  announce  that  two  plane  loads  of 
servicemen  are  here  from  the  Houston 
Stake."  These  numbers  are  naturally 
larger  than  those  mentioned  from  other 
localities  this  morning.  Well,  we  wel- 
come all  plane  loads,  we  are  very  glad 
to  have  you  boys  with  us.  It  is  encour- 
aging. We  just  say,  God  bless  you.  Your 
coming  shows  an  interest  most  com- 
mendable, and  we  extend  appreciation 
to  your  officers  and  the  United  States 
authorities  who  have  contributed  by 
their  consent  and  appointment  to  have 
you  with  us. 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  second  session 
of  the  126th  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  For  those  who  are  unable  to 
enter  the  building  we  announce  that 
these  services  are  being  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  the  Barratt  Hall 
over  a  public  address  system  and  by 
television.  These  services  are  also  being 
televised  over  KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  and 
are  being  heard  over  radio  station  KSL, 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  10  radio  stations  in 
Utah,  Idaho,  Nevada,  and  Arizona. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  under  the 


direction  of  Elder  Crawford  Gates,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  We 
are  happy  to  have  these  students  with  us 
again  this  afternoon. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses  singing,  "High  On  the  Moun- 
tain Top,"  with  Brother  Crawford  Gates 
conducting.  The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Wendell  S.  Lambert, 
president  of  the  Nevada  Stake.  The 
Choir  will  now  sing. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  as  the 
opening  number,  "High  On  the  Moun- 
tain Top,"  Crawford  Gates  conducting. 

Elder  Wendell  S.  Lambert,  president 
of  the  Nevada  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing,  "God  So 
Loved  the  World,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Crawford  Gates.  Following  the  singing, 
Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  read  the  vital  statistical 
data,  financial  expenditures,  and 
forth,  of  the  Church. 


so 


Singing  by  the  Choruses,  "God  So 
Loved  the  World." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 

ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE 
OCTOBER  CONFERENCE,  1955 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Ray  E.  Dillman,  president  of  the  Ha- 
waiian Temple  to  succeed  Benjamin  L. 
Bowring. 

Benjamin  L.  Bowring,  president  of 
the  Los  Angeles  Temple. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Joseph  T.  Bentley,  president  of  the 
new  mission  to  be  created  from  a  di- 
vision of  the  Mexican  Mission. 


20 

Friday,  April  6 

Holger  P.  Petersen,  president  of  the 
Danish  Mission,  to  succeed  Junius  M. 
Sorensen. 

Paul  C.  Andrus,  president  of  the 
Northern  Far  East  Mission,  to  succeed 
Hilton  A.  Robertson. 

Ray  Engebretsen,  president  of  the 
Norwegian  Mission,  to  succeed  Axel  J. 
Andresen. 

Jesse  R.  Curtis,  president  of  the  Swiss 
Austrian  Mission,  to  succeed  William  F. 
Perschon. 

Moroni  M.  Larson,  president  of  the 
Western  Canadian  Mission,  to  succeed 
R.  Scott  Zimmerman. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Brigham  Young  University  Stake  or- 
ganized January  8,  1956. 

Covina  Stake  organized  February  26, 
1956  by  division  of  Pasadena  Stake. 

East  Mesa  Stake  organized  November 
20,  1955  by  division  of  Maricopa  and 
Mesa  Stakes. 

Grand  Junction  Stake  organized  Oc- 
tober 16,  1955  from  branches  in  the 
Western  States  Mission. 

Holladay  Stake  organized  March  18, 
1956  by  division  of  Cottonwood  Stake. 

Rose  Park  Stake  organized  October 
9,  1955  by  division  of  Riverside  Stake. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Antone  K.  Romney,  president  of  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Stake. 

Casper  W.  Merrill,  president  of  Cache 
Stake,  to  succeed  L.  Tom  Perry. 

James  E.  Faust,  president  of  Cotton- 
wood Stake,  to  succeed  G.  Carlos  Smith. 

Elden  L.  Ord,  president  of  Covina 
Stake. 

Cecil  B.  Kenner,  president  of  East 
Cache  Stake,  to  succeed  Clarence  A. 
Hurren. 

Donald  Ellsworth,  president  of  East 
Mesa  Stake. 

John  Clyde  Spencer,  president  of  Gar- 
field Stake,  to  succeed  Douglas  Q.  Can- 
non. 

Loyal  Bain  Cook,  president  of  Grand 
Junction  Stake. 

Arthur  L.  Barrus,  president  of  Grants- 
ville  Stake,  to  succeed  Paul  E.  Wrathall. 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  president  of  Holla- 
day  Stake. 

Henry  A.  Matis,  president  of  Lake 
View  Stake,  to  succeed  Rulon  P.  Peter- 
son. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Loren  Allen,  president  of  Mesa  Stake, 
to  succeed  Donald  Ellsworth. 

Khalil  V.  Hansen,  president  of  Mont- 
pelier  Stake,  to  succeed  Walter  A.  Hun- 
zeker. 

Delphin  Sylvester  Hiatt,  president  of 
Nebo  Stake,  to  succeed  George  Chris- 
tensen. 

George  B.  Glade,  president  of  Park 
Stake,  to  succeed  Charles  B.  Richmond. 

Howard  Dean  Knight,  president  of 
Parowan  Stake,  to  succeed  W.  Clair 
Rowley. 

Aura  C.  Hatch,  president  of  Provo 
Stake,  to  succeed  Antone  K.  Romney. 

Robert  Leatham  Bridge,  president  of 
Riverside  Stake,  to  succeed  Glen  S.  Burt. 

Joseph  Fielding  Steenblik,  president  of 
Rose  Park  Stake. 

Clifton  A.  Rooker,  president  of  San 
Joaquin  Stake,  to  succeed  Wendell  B. 
Mendenhall. 

Leonard  Marion  Haynie,  president  of 
San  Luis  Stake,  to  succeed  Walter  Fred- 
rick Haynie. 

Benjamin  W.  Wilkerson,  president  of 
South  Carolina  Stake,  to  succeed  W. 
Wallace  McBride. 

Voyle  L.  Munson,  president  of  Wayne 
Stake,  to  succeed  Royal  J.  Brinkerhoff. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

Concord  Second  Ward,  Berkeley  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Concord  Ward. 

Blackfoot  Seventh  Ward,  Blackfoot 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Blackfoot 
Fourth  Ward. 

B.  Y.  Campus  First  Ward,  Brigham 
Young  University  Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus 
Second  Ward,  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus  Third  Ward, 
Brigham  Young  University  Stake; 
B.  Y.  Campus  Fourth  Ward,  Brigham 
Young  University  Stake;  B.  Y.  Cam- 
pus Fifth  Ward,  Brigham  Young 
University  Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus  Sixth 
Ward,  Brigham  Young  University  Stake; 
B.  Y.  Campus  Seventh  Ward,  Brigham 
Young  University  Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus 
Eighth  Ward,  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus  Ninth  Ward, 
Brigham  Young  University  Stake;  B.Y. 
Campus  Tenth  Ward,  Brigham  Young 
University  Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus  Elev- 
enth Ward,  Brigham  Young  University 
Stake;  B.  Y.  Campus  Twelfth  Ward, 
Brigham  Young  University  Stake. 

Price   Fifth  Ward,   Carbon  Stake, 


WARDS  AND  BRAN 

formed  by  division  of  Price  Fourth 
Ward. 

Holladay  Seventh  Ward,  Cottonwood 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Holladay 
Sixth  Ward;  Holladay  Eighth  Ward, 
Cottonwood  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Holladay  Fourth  Ward. 

Denver  Sixth  Ward,  Denver  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Barnum  Ward. 

East  Mill  Creek  Third  Ward,  East 
Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  East  Mill  Creek  Ward;  Canyon  Rim 
Second  Ward,  East  Mill  Creek  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Canyon  Rim 
Ward. 

Phoenix  Fourteenth  Ward,  East  Phoe- 
nix Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Phoe- 
nix Seventh  and  Scottsdale  Wards; 
Poenix  Fifteenth  Ward,  East  Phoenix 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Phoenix 
Eleventh  and  Scottsdale  Wards. 

Pleasant  View  Second  Ward,  East 
Sharon  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Pleasant  View  Ward. 

Warden  Ward,  Grand  Coulee  Stake, 
formerly  Warden  Branch. 

Dugway  Ward,  Grantsville  Stake,  for- 
merly Dugway  Branch. 

Kailua  Ward,  Honolulu  Stake,  for- 
merly Kailua  Branch. 

Las  Vegas  Ninth  Ward,  Las  Vegas 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Las  Vegas 
First  and  Sixth  Wards. 

Montpelier  Fifth  Ward,  Montpelier 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Montpelier 
First,  Second  and  Third  Wards. 

Draper  Third  Ward,  Mt.  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Draper 
First  Ward;  Draper  Fourth  Ward,  Mt. 
Jordan  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Draper  Second  Ward;  Sandy  Fifth 
Ward,  Mt.  Jordan  Stake,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  Sandy  Fourth  Ward. 

Granger  Sixth  ward,  North  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Granger 
Fifth  Ward;  Granger  Seventh  Ward, 
North  Jordan  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  Granger  Fifth  Ward. 

West  Warren  Ward,  North  Weber 
Stake,  formerly  West  Warren  Branch. 

Spencer  Second  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Spencer  Ward. 

Anaheim  Second  Ward,  Orange 
County  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Ana- 
heim Ward;  Buena  Park  Ward,  Orange 
County  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Anaheim  and  Fullerton  Wards. 

Orem   Ninth  Ward,   Orem  Stake, 


1ES  TRANSFERRED  21 

formed  by  division  of  Orem  Eighth 
Ward. 

Rigby  Fifth  Ward,  Rigby  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Rigby  First  and 
Fourth  Wards. 

Rose  Park  Sixth  Ward,  Rose  Park 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Rose  Park 
Fifth  Ward. 

Canoga  Park  Ward,  San  Fernando 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Woodland 
Hills  Ward;  Granada  Hills  Ward,  San 
Fernando  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Reseda  and  San  Fernando  Wards. 

Santa  Rosa  Second  Ward,  Santa  Rosa 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Santa  Rosa 
Ward. 

Seattle  Seventh  Ward,  Seattle  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Seattle  Third 
Ward;  Seattle  Eighth  Ward,  Seattle 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Seattle 
Fifth  Ward. 

Orem  Sixteenth  Ward,  Sharon  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Orem  Thirteenth 
Ward. 

South  Gate  Second  Ward,  South 
Los  Angeles  Stake,  formed  by  division 
of  South  Gate  Ward. 

Ogden  Fiftieth  Ward,  South  Ogden 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Ogden 
Thirty-fourth  Ward. 

Tucson  Fourth  Ward,  Southern  Ari- 
zona Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Tuc- 
son Third  Ward. 

Afton  Third  Ward,  Star  Valley  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Afton  First  and 
Second  Wards. 

Pioneer  Second  Ward,  West  Utah 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Pioneer 
Ward. 

Cummings  Second  Ward,  Wilford 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Imperial 
and  Imperial  West  Wards. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Pella  and  View  Wards,  Cassia  Stake, 
formerly  of  Burley  Stake. 

Cannonville,  Henrieville,  and  Tropic 
Wards,  Garfield  Stake,  formerly  of  Pan- 
guitch  Stake. 

Dugway  Ward,  Grantsville  Stake,  for- 
merly of  Tooele  Stake. 

Ukiah,  Fort  Bragg,  Lakeport  and  Wil- 
lits  Branches,  Northern  California  Mis- 
sion, formerly  of  Santa  Rosa  Stake. 

Antimony,  Circleville,  Junction,  and 
Kingston  Wards,  Panguitch  Stake,  for- 
merly of  Garfield  Stake. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  6 

San  Pedro  and  Wilmington  Wards, 
Redondo  Stake,  formerly  of  Long  Beach 
Stake. 

Fifteenth,  Sixteenth,  Twenty-Eighth 
and  Thirty-Fourth  Wards,  Riverside 
Stake,  formerly  of  East  Riverside  Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAME 
CHANGED 

Denver  Fifth  Ward,  Denver  Stake, 
formerly  Barnum  Ward. 

Orem  Second  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  for- 
merly Vermont  Ward. 

Orem  Third  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  for- 
merly Sharon  Ward. 

Orem  Fourth  Ward,  Orem  Stake, 
formerly  Geneva  Ward. 

Orem  Fifth  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  for- 
merly Geneva  Second  Ward. 

Orem  Sixth  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  for- 
merly Windsor  Ward. 

Orem  Seventh  Ward,  Orem  Stake, 
formerly  Timp  View  Ward. 

Orem  Eighth  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  for- 
merly Beverly  Ward. 

Orem  Eleventh  Ward,  Sharon  Stake, 
formerly  Timpanogos  Ward. 

Orem  Twelfth  Ward,  Sharon  Stake, 
formerly  Hill  Crest  Ward. 

Orem  Thirteenth  Ward,  Sharon  Stake, 
formerly  Lincoln  Ward. 

Orem  Fourteenth  Ward,  Sharon 
Stake,  formerly  Crest  View  Ward. 

Orem  Fifteenth  Ward,  Sharon  Stake, 
formerly  Crest  View  Second  Ward. 

Provo  Seventeenth  Ward,  Sharon 
Stake,  formerly  Grand  View  First  Ward. 

Provo  Eighteenth  Ward,  Sharon 
Stake,  formerly  Grand  View  Second 
Ward. 

Afton  First  Ward,  Star  Valley  Stake, 
formerly  Afton  North  Ward. 

Afton  Second  Ward,  Star  Valley 
Stake,  formerly  Afton  South  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Rainier  Branch,  Columbia  River 
Stake,  formerly  dependent  on  St.  Helens 
Ward. 

North  Denver  Branch,  Denver  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Denver  Second 
Ward. 

Battle  Mountain  Branch,  Humboldt 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Winnemuc- 
ca  Ward. 

Mexican  Branch,  Juarez  Stake,  former- 
ly dependent  on  Juarez  Ward. 


First  Day 

Payson  Branch,  Maricopa  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Pine  Ward. 

Slide  Branch,  Morgan  Stake,  former- 
ly Slide  Ward. 

Lafayette  Branch,  New  Orleans  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Baton  Rouge 
Ward. 

Shivwitt  Branch,  St.  George  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Ivins  Ward. 

Sonora  Branch,  San  Joaquin  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Oakdale  Ward. 

Issaquah  Branch,  Seattle  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Renton  and  Kirkland 
Wards. 

Nogales  Branch,  Southern  Arizona 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Tucson 
Fourth  Ward. 

STAKE  DISCONTINUED 

East  Riverside  Stake,  wards  trans- 
ferred to  Riverside  Stake. 

WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Campus  Branch,  East  Provo  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  B.  Y.  Cam- 
pus Wards;  North  Campus  Branch,  East 
Provo  Stake,  membership  transferred  to 
B.  Y.  Campus  Wards;  Wymount 
Branch,  East  Provo  Stake,  membership 
transferred  to  B.  Y.  Campus  First  Ward. 

Raymond  Ward,  Montpelier  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Geneva  and 
Cokeville  Wards;  Nounan  Ward,  Mont- 
pelier Stake,  membership  transferred  to 
Georgetown  Ward;  Wardboro  Ward, 
Montpelier  Stake,  membership  trans- 
ferred to  Dingle  and  Montpelier  First 
Wards. 

Glencoe  Ward,  Oneida  Stake,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Mink  Creek  Ward; 
Glendale  Ward,  Oneida  Stake,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Preston  Seventh 
Ward. 

Nutrioso  Ward,  St.  Johns  Stake,  mem- 
bership transferred  to  Alpine  Ward;  Ver- 
non Ward,  St.  Johns  Stake,  membership 
transferred  to  Eager  Second  Ward. 

McNary,  Branch,  Snowflake  Stake 
membership  transferred  to  Lakeside 
Ward. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Willard  L.  Smith,  president  of  the  Al- 
berta Temple. 

Thomas  Colley  Stayner,  member  of 
the  General  Church  Welfare  Commit- 
tee. 


23 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  —  1955 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church 

The  First  Presidency  issues  the  following  statement  of  items  concerning  the  condi- 
tion and  operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1955.  The  statement  will  include  two 
sections:  First,  Statistical  Information;  and  Second,  Financial  Data. 

/.   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  end  of  1955    224 

An  increase  of  5  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards    1835 

Number  of  Independent  Branches    247 


Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches,  at  end  of  year   2082 

An  increase  of  89  during  the  year 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year   44 

An  increase  of  2  during  the  year 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1955: 

In  the  Stakes    1,126,265 

In  the  Missions    231,009 


Total  Membership    1,357,274 

An  increase  of  55,034  during  the  year 

Church  Growth  during  1955: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   48,421 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   32,807 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    21,669 

An  increase  in  3,096  in  convert  baptisms  over  the  preceding  year 

Social  Statistics: 

(of  membership  in  the  Stakes,  1955) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    37.64 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    8.64 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.53 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  December  31,  1955: 

Deacons    62,963 

Teachers    46,942 

Priests    59,906 


Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood   169,811 

An  increase  of  8,189  during  the  year 
Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  December  31,  1955: 

Elders    127,438 

Seventies    21,030 

High  Priests    37,782 


Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood  186,250 

An  increase  of  7,103  during  the  year 

Grand  total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek 

Priesthood    356,061 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (membership)    163,513 

An  increase  of  7,213  over  the  preceding  year 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (Average  Attendance  in  the  Stakes)   388,433 

An  increase  of  20,185  over  the  preceding  year 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)   158,619 

An  increase  of  19,133  over  the  preceding  year 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)   151,709 

An  increase  of  16,447  over  the  preceding  year 

Primary  (Children  and  Adults  Participating)    255,061 

An  increase  of  5,746  over  the  preceding  year 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 
Welfare  Plan 

Number  of  persons  assisted  from  Bishops'  Storehouses  in  1955    60,165 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment  during  year   8,265 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan  during  year   128,212 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated    13,701 

Genealogical  Society: 

Number  of  names  cleared  and  forwarded  to  the  Temples  in  1955  for 

ordinances  to  be  performed    687,474 

Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  9  countries  during  the  year  were 

equivalent  to  95,570  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages 

per  volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1955  in  the  9  operating  temples: 

For  the  living    32,226 

For  the  dead    2,453,268 

Total  number  of  ordinances    2,485,494 

An  increase  of  133,104  over  the  preceding  year 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1955  were  laboring  in  the 

full-time  missions    4,687 

An  increase  of  968  during  the  year 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  Stakes  at  the  close  of  the  year  6,565 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year   11,252 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1955    2,410 

An  increase  of  388  over  the  preceding  year 

Church  School  System: 

Total  cumulative  enrollments  in  the  unified  Church  School  System  during 

the  year  1955-56    64,467 

II.  EXPENDITURES  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  1955 

This  section  will  show  for  each  of  the  major  fields  of  activity,  first,  expenditures  of 
CHURCH  GENERAL  FUNDS,  these  funds  having  been  received  principally  from  the 
tithes  of  the  Church,  and  second,  expenditures  of  other  contributions  of  the  people  to 
stakes,  wards,  missions,  schools,  and  other  agencies  of  the  Church. 

Missions  and  Missionary  Work: 

For  buildings,  sites,  furnishings  and  building  repairs  in  the  Missions  (in- 
cluding meeting  houses,  mission  headquarters,  and  mission  school 
buildings) : 

From  Church  General  Funds    $4,750,248 

From  Other  Contributions    999,091 

For  operating  expenses  of  the  missions,  including  expenses  of  mission 
branches;  for  publicity  work;  for  expenses  of  bureaus  of  information; 
for  operation  of  certain  schools  in  foreign  missions  and  for  general  ex- 
penses of  the  Missionary  Program: 

From  Church  General  Funds   2,321,809 

From  Other  Contributions    778,549 

Total  Expenditures  for  Missions  and  Missionary  Work   8,849,697 

(Note:  In  addition  to  the  foregoing  expenditures  of  the  Church  for  Mis- 
sionary Work,  it  is  estimated  that  members  and  friends  paid  out  over 
$3,200,000  for  the  support  of  full-time  missionaries  during  the  year,  bring- 
ing total  expenditures  by  the  Church  and  its  people  for  all  mission  purposes 
to  more  than  $12,000,000  in  1955,  not  including  value  of  the  time  given 
by  the  missionaries  themselves.) 

Stakes  and  Wards: 

For  buildings,  sites,  repairs  and  furnishings: 

From  Church  General  Funds    8,421,288 

From  Other  Contributions    6,992,516 


STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT— 1955 


25 


For  general  operating  expenses: 

From  Church  General  Funds    3,833,608 

From  Other  Contributions    4,961,310 

Total  Expenditures  for  Wards  and  Stakes   24,208,722 

Temples: 

For  new  construction,  improvements,  repairs,  and  equipment: 

From  Church  General  Funds    2,093,272 

From  Other  Contributions    322,592 

For  operation  of  Temples: 

From  Church  General  Funds    489,992 

From  Other  Contributions   15,650 

Total  Expenditures  for  Temples   2,921,506 

Educational  Institutions: 

For  land,  buildings,  repairs,  and  equipment: 

From  Church  General  Funds    2,667,563 

From  Other  Contributions    375,862 

For  general  operating  expenses  of  Brigham  Young  University,  Ricks  Col- 
lege, Juarez  Stake  Schools,  the  institutes  of  religion,  and  the  seminaries, 
and  of  the  Church  College  of  Hawaii: 

From  Church  General  Funds    4,650,849 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Total  Expenditures  for  the  Church  School  System   7,694,274 

Welfare: 

For  erection,  purchase,  remodeling,  and  repair  of  Bishops'  Storehouses 
and  other  general  welfare  properties,  and  for  equipment: 

From  Church  General  Funds   279,670 

From  Other  Contributions    2,252,113 

For  the  care  of  the  needy  (rents,  fuel,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.) ;  for 
operating  expenses  of  Bishops'  Storehouses;  for  purchase  of  commodities 
and  containers  and  for  transportation;  and  for  General  Church  Welfare 
Committee  administrative  expenses: 

From  Church  General  Funds    952,751 

From  Other  Contributions    2,574,827 

Total  Expenditures  for  Welfare  (not  including  value  of  donated 

labor)    6,059,361 

Buildings  and  Grounds: 

For  construction,  improvement,  repair  and  equipping  of  buildings  not 
included  under  other  headings: 

From  Church  General  Funds    533,328 

From  Other  Contributions    387,323 

For  operating  expenses  of  general  buildings  and  grounds: 

From  Church  General  Funds    374,608 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Total   Expenditures  for  Buildings  and   Grounds  not  included 

elsewhere    1,295,259 

Genealogical  Society: 

For  operating  expenses,  and  for  the  obtaining  of  records  and  research 
materials: 

From  Church  General  Funds    1,091,944 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Auxiliary  Activities: 

For  expenses  of  the  Auxiliary  General  Boards  and  of  the  Primary  Chil- 
dren's Hospital: 

From  Church  General  Funds    0 

From  Other  Contributions    486,832 

Administrative  Expenses: 

For  personnel  and  other  costs  of  operating  the  general  administrative  offices 
of  the  Church;  for  living  allowances  and  traveling  expenses  of  the 
General  Authorities;  and  for  current  expenses  of  special  committees: 

From  Church  General  Funds    1,620,198 

From  Other  Contributions    0 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

All  Other  Activities  and  Expenses: 

For  taxes,  insurance,  contributions  to  civic  and  miscellaneous  organiza- 
tions and  causes,  and  for  other  purposes: 

From  Church  General  Funds    573,275 

From  Other  Contributions    0 

Grand  Total,  Budget  Expenditures  from  Church  General  Funds   34,654,403 

Grand  Total,  Expenditures  From  Other  Contributions   20,146,665 

Grand  Total,  Expenditures  Both  From  Budgeted  Church  General 

Funds  and  From  Other  Contributions    $54,801,068 

Recapitulation  of  Building  Project  Expenditures: 

The  foregoing  table  includes  the  following  amounts  spent  for  construction, 
purchase,  furnishing,  and  repair  of  buildings,  and  for  purchases  of  land 
and  equipment: 

From  Church  General  Funds    18,745,369 

From  Other  Funds  Contributed  by  the  People    11,329,497 

Add:  Amounts  loaned  by  the  Church  to  Hospitals  and  Church 
Schools  for  capital  improvement  projects,  not  included  in  the 

foregoing  table    1,648,401 

Grand  Total  of  Building  Project  Outlays  in  1955   $31,723,267 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  has  just  read 
the  statistical  and  financial  data  relat- 
ing to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Elder  Orval  Adams 
will  now  read  the  report  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee,  following  which 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  will  pre- 
sent the  General  Authorities,  General 
Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary  Officers 
of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of 
this  General  Conference. 


Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee  read  the  follow- 
ing report: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  4,  1956 

President  David  O.  McKay 

and  Counselors, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

Dear  Brethren: 

We,  your  Committee,  have  reviewed 
the  income  and  expenditures  of  the  Cor- 
poration of  the  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for 


the  year  ending  December  31,  1955.  The 
expenditures  are  well  within  the  income. 
We  are  advised  that  the  Church  is  free 
from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Church  Auditing  Committee 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  asked  to 
present  for  your  sustaining  vote,  the 
various  officers  designated  in  general 
terms  by  President  McKay.  As  you 
know,  you  are  in  certain  senses  a  con- 
stituent assembly  and  your  vote  is  the 
vote  of  the  Church  and  in  your  voting 
therefore,  you  represent  not  only  your- 
selves, but  all  the  members  of  the 
Church  who  are  not  here.  This  vote 
testifies  that  you  pledge  your  support 
to  the  officers  who  shall  be  presented  to 
you  and  for  whom  you  vote  affirma- 
tively, and  as  I  take  it,  is  a  covenant 
with  the  Lord  that  you  will  so  sustain, 
loyally,  those  for  whom  you  vote. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 
The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  27 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Richard  L.  Evans 

Henry  D.  Moyle  George  Q.  Morris 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revel  ators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  John  Longden 

Clifford  E.  Young  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Alma  Sonne  Sterling  W.  Sill 

El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 

Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 
L  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers: 

Harold  B.  Lee  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

LeGrand  Richards  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Clifford  E.  Young  Carl  W.  Buehner 

Alma  Sonne 

and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 

Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 

Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 
W.  T.  Lawrence 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Velma  Nebeker  Simonsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


29 


Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 

A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 

David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 

with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  Clark: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  could 
observe  the  vote  to  sustain  these  officers 
was  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay  will  be  our 
first  speaker  this  afternoon.  We  have 


just  heard  President  J.  Reuben  Clark  Jr. 
of  the  First  Presidency  present  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities,  General  Officers,  and 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church 
for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the  General 
Conference,  and  preceding  President 
Clark,  we  heard  Elder  Orval  Adams, 
Chairman  of  the  Auditing  Committee, 
read  the  report  of  that  Committee. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  and  Counselors, 
President  Smith,  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  other  Gen- 
eral Authorities,  and  my  brethren  and 
sisters  and  friends:  I  am  very  happy  and 
thankful  for  this  opportunity  of  being 
here  this  afternoon  and  also  this  morn- 
ing, listening  to  the  wonderful  testi- 
monies of  the  brethren,  and  participating 
in  the  business  of  this  great  Church.  I 
am  grateful  that  I  have  had  the  privi- 
lege of  voting.  I  have  always  been 
taught  to  vote.  I  still  vote  in  Huntsville, 
and  I  have  never  missed  an  occasion  on 
election  day  to  be  there  if  I  were  in 
the  country. 

I  had  a  grandmother  who  used  to  visit 
us  in  Huntsville  when  we  were  quite 
young.  I  remember  one  morning  she 
arose  early.  My  father,  however,  had 
already  gone  to  the  canyon  to  get  some 


barn  timber.  She  asked  about  him.  They 
told  her  where  he  had  gone,  so  she 
said,  "Well,  it's  election  day  in  Ogden. 
I'm  going  down  to  vote."  There  was 
nothing  special  to  vote  for,  no  specific 
items,  but  she  walked  the  thirteen  miles 
and  cast  her  vote.  That  is  an  example 
that  we  can  follow. 

A  short  time  ago  I  received  a  telephone 
call,  a  rather  unusual  call.  When  I  said 
hello,  the  speaker  called  me  by  my  first 
name  and  said,  "Tom,  I  have  wanted  to 
call  you  for  some  time.  You  are  one  of 
the  kindest  men  that  I  have  ever 
known."  I  appreciated  the  compliment. 

It  also  suggested,  besides  being  a  com- 
pliment, giving  me,  as  it  were,  a  shot 
in  the  arm,  a  theme  around  which  I 
should  like  to  say  a  few  words  today. 
That  theme  is  kind  words.  "Let  us  all 
speak  kind  words  to  each  other.  Kind 


30 

Friday,  April  6 

words  are  sweet  tones  of  the  heart."  I 
like  those  sentences — I  like  that  defini- 
tion of  kind  words.  They  are  sweet 
tones  of  the  heart,  and  if  I  may  take 
just  a  minute  or  two  out  of  the  time 
allotted  to  me,  I  should  like  to  express 
appreciation  for  a  group  of  singers,  stu- 
dent singers,  who  have  not  often  been 
mentioned.  They  mention  our  choir — 
God  bless  them.  This  is  a  wonderful 
choir  we  have  heard  today.  Our  own 
Tabernacle  Choir  has  been  emphasized. 
You  cannot  estimate  the  good  they  are 
doing,  and  especially  on  their  recent 
trip  to  Europe.  I  have  done  missionary 
work  in  those  countries  visited  by  the 
choir,  and,  oh,  how  those  people  will 
appreciate  and  continue  to  appreciate 
the  good  that  the  members  of  the  choir 
did  at  the  dedication  of  the  temple. 

But  this  group  of  singers  that  I  refer 
to  were  students.  They  were  advanced 
students  in  music,  studying  abroad.  I 
first  came  in  contact  with  some  of  them 
when  I  landed  in  Liverpool  on  my  first 
mission.  I  had  been  ordained  a  seventy 
and  set  apart  to  labor  in  Great  Britain 
as  a  missionary  by  President  Heber  J. 
Grant.  When  I  arrived  in  Liverpool, 
Elder  James  McMurrin,  a  counselor  in 
the  European  Mission  presidency,  met 
the  boat  and  asked  our  names.  When 
I  told  him  my  name,  he  said,  "Are  you 
a  brother  of  David  O.  McKay?"  I  said, 
"I  am."  He  said,  "Well,  if  you  do  just 
half  as  good  a  work  as  he  did,  we  will 
be  satisfied.  I  think  we  will  take  you 
with  us  to  Glasgow  tomorrow  night." 
They  were  going  there  to  hold  confer- 
ence. 

Well,  I  had  expected  to  go  to  Scot- 
land. I  had  a  little  black  book  full  of 
addresses  from  my  father  and  from  my 
brother  who  had  been  there  before  me. 
That  night,  however,  the  brethren  had 
had  a  meeting,  and  we  were  called  to- 
gether Saturday  morning,  and  after  they 
had  heard  from  each  of  us,  Brother 
McMurrin  again  came  to  me,  put  his 
arm  around  me,  and  said,  "Brother 
McKay,  what  would  you  think,  and 
what  would  your  parents  think  if  we 
sent  you  to  Germany  instead  of  to 
Scotland?" 

The  words  of  my  father  just  before  I 
left  Ogden  to  go  on  that  mission  came 
to  me.  "Remember,  my  boy,  it  doesn't 
matter  so  much  where  you  work.    It  is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

how  you  work.  You  go  where  the  Lord 
wants  you  to  go."  I  repeated  that  to 
Brother  McMurrin,  and  he  said,  "Well, 
we  are  going  to  send  you  to  Germany. 
President  Schulthess  is  in  Berlin  as  mis- 
sion president.  He  is  calling  for  mis- 
sionaries, and  there  is  not  one  in  this 
large  group  (and  it  was  a  large  group) 
assigned  to  the  German  Mission.  You 
may  spend  a  few  days  visiting  in  London 
and  then  go  to  Paris,  (it  was  1900,  and 
the  World  Fair  was  on),  and  wait  there 
at  a  hotel  where  the  missionaries  who 
are  visiting  the  fair  are  staying,  until 
you  hear  from  President  Schulthess." 

I  went  to  London.  I  had  promised 
our  local  paper  in  Ogden,  the  Standard 
[now  the  Standard-Examiner],  to  write 
a  report  occasionally  of  my  visit.  I 
started  one  from  London.  I  am  glad  I 
never  sent  it.  I  was  disappointed  in 
London.  It  was  storming.  I  had  been 
on  the  boat  eight  days.  I  was  sick  eight 
days,  and  then  to  have  my  assignment 
changed  to  a  country  that  I  knew  noth- 
ing about — at  least  I  did  not  know  the 
language.   I  was  rather  discouraged. 

However,  I  met  some  people  there  in 
London  on  Sunday  at  the  meeting  who 
were  from  Ogden,  and  I  want  to  men- 
tion them;  they  were  missionary  stu- 
dents. It  was  Brother  Edwin  Tout  and 
his  family.  They  were  all  musicians,  all 
singers.  He  had  rented  his  home  in 
Ogden,  and  they  had  moved  to  London, 
so  he  could  be  there  with  the  children 
while  they  were  getting  advanced  les- 
sons in  music.  Of  course  I  had  known 
them  at  home,  and  they  made  me  wel- 
come and  invited  me  to  come  to  their 
home  while  I  was  visiting  in  London, 
urged  me  to  come,  and  it  didn't  take 
much  urging. 

Thirty-six  months  later  I  stopped  in 
London  again  on  my  way  home.  I 
suppose  it  was  the  same  London,  but 
it  did  not  look  the  same  to  me,  and  I 
want  to  relate  this  incident  concerning 
the  Tout  family.  They  had  regular 
tours  from  London  up  through  the  Tros- 
sachs.  I  had  not  been  in  Scotland,  so 
my  folk  had  sent  me  a  little  extra  money 
to  make  that  trip.  It  was  a  great  trip — 
no  automobiles,  no  busses,  but  four 
horses  attached  to  one  of  those  wonder- 
ful coaches,  I  call  them,  and  we  would 
travel  in  those,  and  then  get  out  and 
take  a  boat  from  one  lake  to  another, 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


31 


and  have  an  opportunity  to  walk 
through  the  beautiful  woods  occasion- 
ally. 

We  were  walking  on  one  of  the  trails 
through  that  beautiful  country.  Sister 
Maggie  Tout,  the  eldest  daughter  of  the 
Tout  family,  a  great  singer,  was  in  the 
group  along  with  some  of  the  mission- 
aries from  London.  There  was  quite  a 
percentage  of  the  group  who  were  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  We  stopped  there 
to  rest,  loitering  through  the  trees,  and 
Nannie,  as  I  always  called  her,  stood 
between  two  beautiful  trees,  and  started 
to  hum  a  tune.  All  the  tourists  quieted, 
and  we  sat  down  and  listened.  She 
burst  forth  singing  that  wonderful  song, 
"Oh,  My  Father." 

My  first  attendance  at  the  statewide 
mission  conference  was  in  Berlin,  and 
it  was  surprising  how  many  of  these 
advanced  music  students  I  knew  and  had 
met  at  home.  One  of  those  students 
who  was  there  is  the  one  who  tele- 
phoned to  me.  He  is  now  near  his 
eighty-second  birthday  but  still  going 
strong,  and,  Hugh,  I  want  to  thank  you 
for  those  few  kind  words,  if  you  are 
listening  in. 

There  were  others  there,  but  as  I  say, 
it  is  dangerous  to  mention  names,  but 
I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  the  group  of 
singers,  those  advanced  students  who 
have  done  so  much  towards  music  in 
the  Church,  along  with  our  other  sing- 
ers in  the  choirs.  God  bless  their 
memory.  Some  of  them  have  gone  to 
the  other  side,  and  I  have  not  carried 
out  what  I  generally  preach,  when  I 
have  the  opportunity,  of  expressing  ap- 
preciation before  it  is  too  late.  We  feel 
appreciation.  We  love,  for  example,  our 
wives,  but  how  often  do  we  tell  them 
that  we  do?  We  just  let  them  take  it 
for  granted. 

It  is  like  another  of  my  old  friends 
who  often  visited  us.  He  was  circulat- 
ing until  he  was  ninety-eight  years  old. 
He  passed  to  the  other  side,  however, 
a  short  time  ago.  He  always  gave  us 
something.  He  had  a  wonderful  mem- 
ory* and  I  always  remembered  this  poem 
that  he  quoted: 

Don't  Wait  'till  I'm  Gone 

When  I  quit  this  mortal  shore 

And  mosey  round  the  earth  no  more, 

Don't  Weep,  don't  sigh,  don't  sob; 

I  may  have  struck  a  better  job.  1  1 


Don't  go  and  buy  a  huge  bouquet 
For  which  you'll  find  it  hard  to  pay; 
Don't  mope  around  and  feel  all  blue, 
I  may  be  better  off  than  you. 

Don't  tell  the  folks  I  am  a  saint 
Or  any  other  thing  I  ain't; 
If  you  have  jam  like  that  to  spread, 
Please  hand  it  out  before  I'm  dead. 

If  you  have  roses,  bless  your  soul, 
Just  pin  one  in  my  buttonhole 
While  I'm  alive  and  well  today; 
Don't  wait  until  I've  gone  away. 

That  was  his  favorite  poem.  It  was 
requested  at  his  service  that  this  poem  be 
read,  and  I  understand  that  it  was.  I 
refer  to  Brother  James  Hart.  God  bless 
his  memory,  also. 

Now,  with  reference  to  this  telephone 
call,  it  did  give  me  a  theme,  kind 
words;  I  never  heard  my  father,  and 
nobody  else  did,  speak  an  unkind  word 
to  my  mother,  so  it  has  not  been  diffi- 
cult for  me  to  say  kind  words.  I  trust, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  and  pray  that 
we  may  all  remember  to  speak  kind 
words  to  each  other,  and  especially  may 
the  Lord  help  us  to  remember  that 
"Kind  words  are  sweet  tones  of  the 
heart,"  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thomas  E.  McKay,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  Congregation  will  now  join  in 
singing,  "Oh,  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 
with  the  Choir,  conducted  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  Following  the  singing,  Elder 
Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy  will  speak  to  us. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Oh  Say, 
What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Levi 
Edgar  Young  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy,  who  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church. 


32 

Friday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


First  Day 


President  McKay,  my  brethren  and 
sisters:  I  pray  that  the  Lord  may 
bless  me  that  what  I  say  may  be  of 
some  help  to  everyone  in  this  large  audi- 
ence. It  is  quite  natural  that  when  we 
are  called  upon  to  speak,  we  give  utter- 
ance to  the  thoughts  that  are  on  our 
minds  and  in  our  hearts. 

I  have  been  thinking  this  day  of  the 
words  of  the  Vermont  Historical  So- 
ciety when  they  wrote  concerning  the 
history  of  Sharon.  To  quote  a  sentence 
or  two,  the  paragraph  to  which  I  refer 
says  that:  "Sharon  was  settled  in  1765 
by  Connecticut  emigrants  and  organized 
in  1768.  Sharon  entered  the  Hall  of 
Fame  by  being  the  birthplace  of  one 
of  the  immortals  of  American  History, 
Joseph  Smith  who  founded  the  Mormon 
religion."  It  is  a  noble  tribute  written 
by  the  state  historian  concerning  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

In  the  book  of  Ecclesiasticus,  [Apocry- 
pha], chapter  17,  we  read: 

The  Lord  created  man  of  the  earth. 

He  endued  them  with  strength  by  them- 
selves and  made  them  according  to  his 
image, 

And  put  the  fear  of  man  upon  all  flesh, 
and  gave  him  dominion  over  beasts  and 
fowls.  .  .  . 

Counsel,  and  a  tongue,  and  eyes,  ears,  and 
a  heart,  gave  he  them  to  understand. 

Withal  he  filled  them  with  the  knowledge 
of  understanding,  and  shewed  them  good 
and  evil. 

He  set  his  eye  upon  their  hearts,  that  he 
might  shew  them  the  greatness  of  his  works. 

He  gave  them  to  glory  in  his  marvellous 
acts  for  ever,  that  they  might  declare  his 
works  with  understanding.  .  .  . 

Besides  this  he  gave  them  knowledge, 
and  the  law  of  life  for  an  heritage. 

He  made  an  everlasting  covenant  with 
them,  and  shewed  them  his  judgments.  *  *  * 

Their  ways  are  ever  before  him,  and  shall 
not  be  hid  from  his  eyes. 

These  words  direct  our  minds  and 
hearts  to  the  Holy  Bible  and  the  first 
chapter  of  Genesis,  the  beauty  and  truth- 
fulness of  which  impress  every  reader 
with  its  inherent  greatness.  We  think 
of  the  Holy  Bible  and  the  other  holy 
books,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doc- 


trine and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price.  This  being  the  anniversary 
of  the  founding  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  it  is  good  to  think 
of  them,  for  they  give  us  the  teachings 
of  God,  our  Father.  A  few  thoughts 
in  reference  to  the  Holy  Bible  as  a 
whole  will  be  welcome  to  all.  William 
Lyon  Phelps,  professor  of  English  litera- 
ture at  Yale  University,  wrote  these 
words  in  his,  Human  Nature  in  the 
Bible: 

Every  one  who  has  a  thorough  knowledge 
of  the  Bible  may  truly  be  called  educated; 
and  no  other  learning  or  culture,  no  matter 
how  extensive  or  elegant,  can,  among  Euro- 
peans and  Americans,  form  a  proper  sub- 
stitute. Western  civilization  is  founded 
upon  the  Bible;  our  ideas,  our  wisdom,  our 
philosophy,  our  literature,  our  art,  our 
ideals,  come  more  from  the  Bible  than  from 
all  other  books  put  together.  It  is  a  revela- 
tion of  divinity  and  humanity;  it  contains 
the  loftiest  religious  aspirations  along  with 
a  candid  representation  of  all  that  is 
earthly.  .  .  . 

The  Holy  Bible  was  written  by  many 
men  under  different  conditions.  It  is 
the  product  of  men  inspired  of  God, 
covering  a  period  of  three  thousand 
years.  Like  John  of  Patmos,  we  hear 
the  "voice  of  many  waters,"  yet  unified 
"as  the  clear  note  of  a  trumpet."  Be- 
ginning with  our  first  parents  and  cul- 
minating in  Jesus  Christ  and  the  Church 
he  founded,  it  is  a  manifestation  of  the 
divine  will,  and  was  written  by  the  in- 
spiration of  God,  our  Father  in  heaven. 
The  book  shows  that  the  Hebrew  proph- 
ets gave  their  lives  to  the  service  of  God. 
They  wrote  by  the  power  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.    God  directed  them. 

The  Book  of  Genesis  stands  indeed  at  the 
head  of  the  literature  of  the  world.  It  is 
more  recent  than  some  of  the  writings  of 
Chaldea  or  Egypt  which  have  come  down 
to  us  and  is  incomparably  the  noblest 
composition  of  early  ages,  in  its  moral  and 
spiritual  characteristics.  (Geikie,  Hours  With 
the  Bible.) 

However  highly  we  may  estimate  the 
scientific,  philosophic,  and  religious  genius 
of  the  narrators  of  Genesis,  more  important 


ELDER  LEVI  £ 

to  us,  and  for  the  religious  instruction  of 
youth,  is  the  fact  that  they  were  men,  who 
had  surrendered  themselves  wholly  to  God, 
and  who  had  derived  their  knowledge  from 
Him.  (Rudolph  Kittel  of  Leipzig  Univer- 
sity.)  I 

"The  first  leaf  of  the  Mosaic  record," 
says  Jean  Paul,  "has  more  weight  than 
all  the  folios  of  men  of  science  and 
philosophers."  "And  he  is  right,"  says 
Geikie,  "for  we  owe  to  it  the  earliest 
and  grandest  revelation  of  that  first 
principle  of  all  religion — the  existence, 
the  unity,  the  personality,  and  the  moral 
government  of  God." 

The  life  of  Christ,  our  Savior,  as  given 
in  the  New  Testament,  is  to  old  and 
young  alike,  the  most  moving  and  con- 
vincing truth  that  he  came  from  some 
higher  sphere  into  our  earthly  history 
with  a  mission  to  reveal  God  and  save 
man.  "He  preached  the  gospel  of  the 
kingdom;  and  forever  even  until  all  the 
aeons  have  been  closed,  and  the  earth 
itself,  with  the  heavens  that  now  are, 
have  passed  away,  shall  everyone  of 
his  true  and  faithful  children  find  peace 
and  hope  and  forgiveness  in  His  name, 
and  that  name  shall  be  called  Em- 
manuel or  God  With  Us." 

In  reference  to  the  other  Church 
works,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price  stand  with  the  Bible  at  the 
head  of  the  religious  books  of  today. 
Everyone  of  our  four  Church  works  has 
a  genuine  and  divine  truth  that  God 
lives  and  that  we  are  his  children  and 
are  given  the  duty  to  work  out  our 
destinies.  We  cannot  study  them  enough. 
Just  to  read  the  first  chapter  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  gives  us  a  lesson  in  the 
meaning  of  education.  To  think  that 
Nephi  was  educated  in  both  the  learning 
of  the  Egyptians  and  the  Jews!  Today 
few  people  realize  what  that  learning 
was.  Some  scholars  maintain  that  the 
learning  of  the  Egyptians  in  ancient 
times  has  never  been  equaled. 

We  are  all  thinking  this  day  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Savior.  Among  the  many 
things  of  his  life  we  will  recall  his  Ser- 
mon on  the  Mount.  It  is  the  most 
beautiful  sermon  ever  given  to  man,  and 
no  one  can  read  a  single  sentence  of  it 
without  being  built  up  in  spirit  and 
truth. 


)GAR  YOUNG  33 

And  seeing  the  multitudes,  he  went  up 
into  a  mountain:  and  when  he  was  set, 
his  disciples  came  unto  him: 

And  he  opened  his  mouth,  and  taught 
them,  saying, 

Blessed  are  the  poor  in  spirit:  for  theirs 
is  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

Blessed  are  they  that  mourn:  for  they 
shall  be  comforted. 

Blessed  are  the  meek:  for  they  shall  in- 
herit the  earth. 

Blessed  are  they  which  do  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness:  for  they  shall  be 
filled. 

Blessed  are  the  merciful:  for  they  shall 
obtain  mercy. 

Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they 
shall  see  God. 

Blessed  are  the  peacemakers:  for  they 
shall  be  called  the  children  of  God. 

Blessed  are  they  which  are  persecuted 
for  righteousness'  sake:  for  theirs  is  the 
kingdom  of  heaven. 

Blessed  are  ye,  when  men  shall  revile 
you,  and  persecute  you,  and  shall  say  all 
manner  of  evil  against  you  falsely,  for  my 
sake. 

We  must  remember  that  there  were 
ancient  religions  long  before  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world  was  born,  and  the 
writers  were  men  of  divine  knowledge. 
An  ancient  Japanese  leader  of  religion 
writes, 

I  will  halt  here  today  and  having  puri- 
fied myself,  we  will  go  forth  tomorrow  and 
worship  in  the  temple  of  the  Deity. 

And  a  writer  of  Buddhism  says, 

Let  us  cultivate  good  will  towards  all  the 
world.    This  is  the  mode  of  living. 

In  the  chronological  writings  of  Padre 
Claudio  Clemente  is  conserved  a  form 
of  prayer  said  to  have  been  used  by 
Columbus  on  Friday  morning,  October 
12,  1492,  as  he  stepped  on  the  land  of 
the  New  World.  The  prayer  was  used 
by  Cortez,  Balboa,  and  Pizarro  later  on 
in  their  discoveries. 

O  God,  our  Father,  eternal  and  omnip- 
otent, Creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and 
sea,  we  glorify  Thy  Holy  name,  praise 
Thy  majesty,  whom  we  serve  in  all  humility, 
we  give  unto  Thy  Holy  protection  this  new 
part  of  the  world. 

So  many  of  the  fathers  of  our  church 
were  descendants  of  the  early  Pilgrims 
to  Massachusetts.  For  this  reason  we 
have  always  felt  the  beauty  of  the  story 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  6 

of  the  Pilgrim  Fathers  and  their  coming 
in  the  Mayflower  to  America  in  1620. 
We  have  the  story  of  Pastor  Robinson 
uttering  a  farewell  prayer  to  the  Pilgrim 
Fathers  as  they  left  for  America.  In 
reading  it,  we  see  the  prophetic  spirit 
of  it  when  he  said: 

I  charge  you  before  God  and  His  blessed 
angels,  that  you  follow  me  no  farther  than 
you  have  seen  me  follow  the  Lord,  Jesus 
Christ.  If  God  reveal  anything  to  you,  by 
any  other  instrument  of  His,  be  as  ready 
to  receive  it,  as  ever  you  were  to  receive 
truth,  by  my  ministry;  for  I  am  fully  per- 
suaded, I  am  very  confident  that  the  Lord 
has  more  truth  yet  to  break  forth  out  of 
His  holy  word. 

It  was  Sir  Isaac  Newton  who  lived 
some  three  hundred  years  ago  who  wrote 
a  book  on  mathematics  which  is  said 
to  be  the  greatest  scientific  work  of  its 
kind  ever  written.  I  speak  of  Newton  for 
his  life  has  always  thrilled  me.  Born 
in  1642  in  Lincolnshire,  England,  he 
was  a  frail  little  farm  boy  who  used  to 
wander  into  the  gardens  and  fields  where 
he  lived.  He  would  look  up  at  the  sun 
and  stars,  for  to  him  they  possessed 
such  heavenly  qualities  unlike  anything 
on  earth.  The  sight  of  a  falling  apple 
one  day  caused  him  to  wonder  about 
the  force  that  drew  the  apple  to  earth. 
Newton  began  to  work  with  the  laws  of 
motion  and  universal  gravitation.  As  a 
result  he  produced  one  of  the  greatest 
books  of  all  times  entitled,  Principia.  It 
was  a  scientific  work  of  the  highest 
merit.  Just  before  he  died  he  wrote  that 
the  wonders  of  the  universe  had  been 
given  their  shape  and  motion  by  the 
hand  of  God. 

A  copy  of  the  Principia  was  given  to 
the  Seventies'  Library  by  Orson  Pratt 
who  had  been  called  by  President  Brig- 
ham  Young  to  go  to  Austria  on  a  mis- 


First  Day 

sion  in  1864.  Elder  Pratt  had  already 
written  and  published  his  book  called, 
Biquadratic  Equations,  which  was  used 
at  the  University  of  Vienna.  It  was  in 
Vienna  that  he  obtained  Newton's 
Principia  which  he  brought  home  to  the 
Seventies'  Library. 

After  the  Quorum  of  the  Seventy  had 
been  organized  in  Kirtland  in  1835,  the 
brethren  were  stirred  by  certain  words 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  as  found  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

And  as  all  have  not  faith,  seek  ye  dili- 
gently and  teach  one  another  words  of  wis- 
dom; yea,  seek  ye  out  of  the  best  books 
words  of  wisdom,  seek  learning  even  by 
study  and  also  by  faith;  .  .  .  (D  &  C  109:7.) 

The  admonition  of  the  Prophet  grew 
in  the  hearts  of  the  seventies  who  knew 
that  they  must  become  the  missionaries 
of  the  Church.  It  was  not  long  before 
a  library  was  established  which  de- 
veloped into  one  of  the  largest  collec- 
tions of  history  and  literature  in  the 
early  history  of  America.  Books  were 
brought  from  all  over  the  world,  and 
the  collection  of  the  great  works  of  man- 
kind stirred  the  seventies  to  a  desire  to 
develop  the  art  of  reading. 

I  pray  that  we  may  come  to  a  greater 
appreciation  of  the  truth  and  beauty  of 
the  divine  books  that  teach  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patri- 
arch to  the  Church,  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Adam 
S.  Bennion,  who  will  be  our  concluding 
speaker. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


1 appreciate  the  prayers  that  have  been 
offered  in  behalf  of  those  who  shall 
take  part  in  this  conference,  and  I 
pray  that  I  shall  receive  my  share  of 
those  blessings  which  have  been  asked. 

I  appreciated  the  privilege  of  attending 
the  Los  Angeles  Temple  dedication  with 


the  other  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  and  I  also  want  to  express  ap- 
preciation for  the  sustaining  vote  in  my 
behalf  of  this  assembly  today,  for  I 
feel  that  is  a  very  personal  help  and 
support  to  me  in  my  work.  I  also  wish 
to  sustain  with  you  the  General  Authori- 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


35 


ties  and  others  whom  we  have  sustained 
in  this  conference,  especially  President 
McKay  as  the  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  who 
holds  the  keys  of  the  gospel  at  this  time 
through  which  we  may  receive  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  of  salvation  and  eternal 
life  which  are  promised  through  the 
gospel. 

On  that  memorable  occasion  which 
we  read  of  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in 
Third  Nephi,  when  Christ  spoke  from 
the  heavens  so  that  all  could  hear,  he 
said, 

Yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  if  ye  will  come 
unto  me  ye  shall  have  eternal  life.  Behold, 
mine  arm  of  mercy  is  extended  towards  you, 
and  whosoever  will  come,  him  will  I  re- 
ceive; and  blessed  are  those  who  come  unto 
me. 

And  continuing  further,  he  said: 

.  .  .  And  whoso  cometh  unto  me  with  a 
broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  him  will 
I  baptize  with  fire  and  with  the  Holy 
Ghost,  ...  (3  Nephi  9:14,  20.) 

All  are  invited  to  come  unto  him  that 
they  may  have  eternal  life.  The  glory 
of  God  is  ".  .  .  to  bring  to  pass  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  of  man." 
(P.  of  G.  P.,  Moses  1:39.)  The  Lord 
wants  only  to  bring  us  back  into  the 

Eresence  of  God.  For  that  purpose  he 
as  established  the  priesthood  on  the 
earth.  He  has  established  his  kingdom 
with  just  laws  and  ordinances,  through 
obedience  to  which  we  may  obtain 
eternal  life  in  the  presence  of  our  Father 
in  heaven. 

All  God  asks  of  us  is  that  we  keep  his 
commandments,  that  we  obey  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  These 
laws  are  not  unjust,  as  are  some  which 
are  given  by  corrupt  rulers.  They  are 
simple  laws  which  bring  nothing  but 
happiness  to  those  who  obey  them. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  makes  the 
following  comparison: 

Were  a  king  to  extend  his  domination 
over  the  habitable  earth,  and  send  forth 
his  laws  which  were  the  most  perfect  kind, 
and  command  his  subjects  one  and  all  to 
yield  obedience  to  the  same,  and  add  as  a 
reward  to  those  who  obeyed  them,  that  at 
a  certain  period  they  should  be  called  to 
attend  the  marriage  of  his  son,  who  in  due 
time  was  to  receive  the  kingdom,  and  they 
should  be  made  equal  with  him  in  the 


same;  and  fix  as  a  penalty  for  disobedience 
that  every  individual  guilty  of  it  should  be 
cast  out  of  the  marriage  feast,  and  have  no 
part  nor  portion  with  his  government,  what 
rational  mind  could  for  a  moment  accuse 
the  king  with  injustice  for  punishing  such 
rebellious  subjects?  In  the  first  place  his 
laws  were  just,  easy  to  be  complied  with, 
and  perfect:  nothing  of  a  tyrannical  nature 
was  required  of  them;  but  the  very  con- 
struction of  the  laws  was  equity  and  beauty; 
and  when  obeyed  would  produce  the  hap- 
piest condition  possible  to  all  who  adhered 
to  them,  beside  the  last  great  benefit  of 
sitting  down  with  the  royal  robe  in  the 
presence  of  the  king  at  the  great,  grand 
marriage  supper  of  his  son,  and  be  made 
equal  with  him  in  all  the  affairs  of  the 
kingdom.  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  p.  52.) 

Then  the  Lord  has  said,  "Behold,  mine 
arm  of  mercy  is  extended  towards  you." 
(See  Jacob  6:5.)  This  means  to  all  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth,  not  just  to  the 
few  who  then  heard  his  voice,  but  to  all 
the  children  of  God,  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth,  to  those  of  all  nations,  regardless 
of  time  or  place  of  their  life  on  the 
earth.  Yes,  his  invitation  reaches  to  those 
who  lived  before  his  ministry  on  the 
earth,  who  then  or  even  now  dwell  in 
the  world  of  spirits,  to  those  who  are 
yet  to  be  born  on  the  earth.  Most  im- 
portant of  all  this  invitation  is  to  us, 
to  all  of  this  generation,  to  you  and  to 
me.  Are  you  willing  to  accept  his  in- 
vitation, can  you  offer  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit,  are  you  willing 
to  seek  him?  He  has  said, 

.  .  .  seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you.  (Luke  11:9.)  .  .  . 
Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his 
righteousness;  and  all  these  things  shall  be 
added  unto  you.  (Matt.  6:33.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said, 
"Search  the  scriptures,"  as  Brother  Kirk- 
ham  has  told  us  this  morning. 

Search  the  revelations,  which  we  publish, 
and  ask  your  Heavenly  Father  in  the  name 
of  His  Son  Jesus  Christ,  to  manifest  the 
truth  unto  you,  and  if  you  do  it  with  an 
eye  single  to  His  glory  nothing  doubting  He 
will  answer  you  by  the  power  of  His  Holy 
Spirit.  You  will  then  know  for  yourselves 
and  not  for  another.  You  will  not  then  be 
dependent  on  man  for  the  knowledge  of 
God.  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  p.  11.) 


36 

Friday,  April  6 

The  Lord  is  constantly  making  it 
easier  to  find  him.  He  has  established 
his  Church  with  the  divine  authority 
to  teach  and  administer  in  the  ordi- 
nances thereof.  He  has  established  the 
missionary  system  to  teach  and  to  seek 
out  those  who  wish  to  accept  his  invi- 
tation to  eternal  life. 

It  was  a  glorious  privilege  to  listen 
to  the  testimonies  of  the  mission  presi- 
dents who  have  gathered  here  at  this 
conference.  Surely  they  are  men  of 
God,  and  they,  too,  will  testify  that  as 
they  work  they  receive  more  for  their 
labors.  I  testify  to  you  that  our  mis- 
sionaries are  in  good  hands. 

Those  who  accept  His  invitation  are 
surely  blessed.  It  is  a  real  thrill  to  see 
the  joy  expressed  by  these  converts;  many 
through  tears  of  joy  tell  how  wonderful 
it  is  that  they  have  been  privileged  to 
receive  the  gospel.  Some  tell  of  the 
joy  they  received  in  going  into  the 
waters  of  baptism,  that  joy  is  increased 
again  to  a  climax  when  they  have  the 
privilege  of  coming  to  the  temple  and 
enjoying  the  blessings  of  the  sealing 
ordinances. 

The  Lord  has  recently  provided  more 
temples  to  make  it  easier  for  men  to 
accept  his  invitation,  including  the  new 
Los  Angeles  Temple.  Not  only  does  it 
make  it  easier  for  us,  but  it  also  leaves 
more  of  the  people  of  the  earth  without 
excuse.  And  woe  unto  him  who  has  the 
gospel  taught  to  him  and  has  all  these 
opportunities  given  to  him  and  does  not 
avail  himself  of  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord.  This  may  also  be  a  fair  warn- 
ing to  those  who  have  the  opportunity 
given  to  them  to  go  forth  to  teach  the 
gospel,  and  do  not  avail  themselves  of 
that  opportunity.  They  too  shall  surely 
forfeit  great  blessings. 

Foreign  missionaries  are  not  the  only 
ones  who  have  the  privilege  of  teaching 
the  gospel,  for  it  is  our  privilege  to 
teach  the  gospel  in  our  own  lives,  as 
well  as  those  who  are  called  to  local 
missions.  I  heard  of  a  man  who  lived 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  same  house  for 
seventeen  years  before  joining  the 
Church.  When  he  was  asked  why  he 
had  not  joined  sooner,  he  replied,  "No 
one  asked  me." 

I  talked  with  a  man  in  Ogden  who 
had  lived  in  the  same  place  for  about 
fifty-five  years  and  had  recently  accepted 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

the  Lord's  invitation.  He  told  me  no 
one  had  asked  him  before,  either. 

The  invitation  to  receive  eternal  life 
requires  more  than  mere  acceptance  of 
baptism.  When  we  receive  the  Holy 
Ghost  which  reveals  unto  us  the  truth, 
it  is  then  our  responsibility  to  extend 
his  invitation  to  others.  This  is  one 
case  where  the  more  you  give  to  others, 
the  more  you  receive  unto  yourself. 
Then  give  generously  in  teaching  the 
gospel.  Accept  of  his  invitation  to  re- 
ceive him,  that  you  with  your  family 
and  friends  may  return  unto  our  Father 
in  heaven,  exalted  in  his  kingdom. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  with 
us,  for  I  bear  unto  you  my  testimony 
that  this  is  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
through  which  we  may  receive  eternal 
life  and  become  exalted  in  the  kingdom 
of  our  Father  in  heaven.  May  these 
blessings  be  upon  us,  I  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

A  meeting  devoted  to  the  work  of 
foreign  and  stake  missions  will  be  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening  at  7:00 
o'clock.  Mission  presidents,  all  stake 
mission  presidencies  and  district  presi- 
dents are  requested  to  attend  this  meet- 
ing. A  special  invitation  is  extended 
also  to  stake  presidencies,  high  council- 
men,  bishops,  presidents  of  Seventies 
quorums,  and  officers  and  members  of 
auxiliary  General  Boards. 

The  Temple  Presidents  in  attendance 
will  please  meet  at  4:30  this  afternoon. 
That  is  why  we  are  dismissing  a  little 
early. 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with  Craw- 
ford Gates  conducting  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ.  I  do  not  know 
what  to  say  to  express  your  appreciation 
to  these  young  people  for  their  presence 
today.  There  comes  to  my  mind  a  say- 
ing that: 

There  are  gains  for  all  our  losses. 
There  are  balms  for  all  our  pain. 
But  when  youth  the  dream  departs, 
It  takes  something  from  our  hearts 
And  it  never  comes  again. 
And  just  your  presence  today,  young 
men  and  young  women  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  has  rejuvenated  our 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


37 


hearts,  but  more  than  that,  your  singing 
this  morning  and  this  afternoon  has 
been  most  inspirational.  In  behalf  of 
the  congregation  and  those  listening 
in  as  well,  I  extend  to  you  hearty  thanks. 
The  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray. 

The  meeting  for  the  patriarchs  was 
set  at  8:30  tomorrow  morning.  That  will 
not  give  you  sufficient  time.  President 
Smith  and  the  members  of  the  Twelve, 
we  would  like  you  to  meet  them  at  8:00 
o'clock  instead  of  at  8:30,  in  the  Barratt 
Hall,  if  you  will  please. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  sing,  "And  the 


Glory  of  the  Lord,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Gates,  and  the  closing  prayer  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  John  F.  Hobson,  presi- 
dent of  Summit  Stake,  after  which  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned  until 
10:00  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  an  anthem,  "And 
the  Glory  of  the  Lord." 

Elder  John  F.  Hobson,  president  of 
the  Summit  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00 
a.m.,  Saturday,  April  7,  1956. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday 
morning,  April  7,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 

Music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Relief  So- 
ciety Singing  Mothers  from  the  Pioneer, 
Salt  Lake  and  Sugar  House  Regions,  and 
Davis,  Layton  and  North  Davis  Stakes, 
with  Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen 
conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

At  this  the  commencement  of  the 
third  session  of  the  126th  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  pleased  to 
announce  that  the  Tabernacle  is  filled 
as  far  as  we  can  see  to  overflowing,  and 
other  meetings  are  being  held  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  the  Barratt  Hall. 
These  services  are  being  broadcast  over 
radio  stations  and  television  stations  as 
heretofore  announced. 

We  are  pleased  to  welcome  all  who 
are  present,  particularly  the  servicemen 
who  are  in  attendance,  and  officials  of 
Church,  State  and  Government.  I  note 
in  the  audience  Senator  Wallace  F.  Ben- 
nett, our  Mayor,  Adiel  F.  Stewart,  edu- 
cational leaders,  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin  of 
the  University  of  Utah,  Dr.  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity, our  State  Superintendent,  E.  Al- 
lan Bateman,  and  there  are  possibly  oth- 
ers, to  all  of  whom  we  extend  a  most 
hearty  welcome. 


We  have  received  messages  of  good 
will  from  some  of  our  foreign  missions. 
Here  is  one  you  will  be  interested  in 
from  New  Zealand:  "All  the  Saints  and 
missionaries  join  with  me  in  sending 
our  Aloha  Nui  to  you  and  the  Saints 
assembled.  Our  three  thousand  Saints 
gather  in  Hamilton  for  our  Annual  Con- 
ference hui  tau  where  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  blesses  and  stimulates  us  to  be 
better  Latter-day  Saints." 

And  here  is  a  cable  from  Sweden 
which  came  principally  for  the  Los  An- 
geles Temple  dedication,  signed  by  Pres- 
ident Blomquist:  "Wishes,  love  and 
greetings  from  the  Swedish  nation."  We 
appreciate  the  spirit  of  unity,  the  realiza- 
tion that  there  are  thousands  of  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  tens  of  thousands 
and  hundred  of  thousands  of  others  who 
are  uniting  with  us  in  this  worship.  We 
are  happy  to  thank  those  various  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  for  their  cour- 
tesy in  making  available  their  time  and 
facilities  for  this  great  assembly.  We 
will  announce  later  where  they  are. 

This  morning  you  will  note  with  sat- 
isfaction and  gratitude  that  we  have  the 
Singing  Mothers  with  us.  They  are  from 
the  Pioneer,  Salt  Lake  and  Sugarhouse 
Regions  and  Davis,  Layton  and  North 
Davis  Stakes.  Sister  Florence  Jepperson 
Madsen  is  conducting,  with  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ.  These  mothers  in- 
spire us  just  by  their  presence. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Choir  singing  "Incline  Your  Ear,"  un- 


38 

Saturday,  April  7 

dec  the  guidance  and  leadership  of  Sis- 
ter Madsen.  The  opening  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  William  C.  Olsen,  pres- 
ident of  the  North  Sanpete  Stake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  sang, 
"Incline  Your  Ear." 

Elder  William  C.  Olsen,  president  of 
the  North  Sanpete  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
William  C.  Olsen,  president  of  the 
North  Sanpete  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
from  the  Pioneer,  Salt  Lake  and  Sugar 
House  Regions,  and  Davis,  Layton  and 


Second  Day 

North  Davis  Stakes,  will  now  favor  us 
with,  "Come  Unto  Him,"  conducted  by 
Sister  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen.  Fol- 
lowing the  singing,  President  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.  of  the  First  Presidency  will  ad- 
dress us. 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  sang  the 
anthem,  "Come  Unto  Him." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Mothers,  there  is  just  one  word  which 
partly  expresses  that  inspirational  sing- 
ing. It's  glorious. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Adam  S. 
Bennion. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


MY  BROTHERS  AND  SISTERS:  It  is  with 
deep  humility  that  I  rise  this 
morning  to  say  something  to  you. 
As  always,  I  trust  that  you  will  add  your 
prayers  to  mine  that  what  I  say  may  be 
of  some  value  to  us.  Without  the  help 
of  the  Lord  we  stand  but  weak  mortals, 
not  able  to  do  too  much  to  the  ad- 
vancement of  his  cause. 

I  would  like  to  begin  by  expressing 
my  gratitude  to  our  Heavenly  Father 
for  the  devotion,  the  loyalty,  and  the 
great  service  of  thousands  of  our  Latter- 
day  Saints.  There  is  no  sacrifice  which 
they  will  not  make.  They  stand  as 
ready  to  do  the  bidding  of  the  spirit  as 
manifested  through  the  Presiding  Au- 
thorities of  the  Church  as  did  the  early 
Saints  even  in  the  time  of  the  Savior 
and  thereafter,  and  the  early  Saints  in 
the  beginning  and  the  opening  of  this 
the  Last  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times.  I  am  grateful  to  you  for  that. 
I  appreciate  that  without  that  loyalty 
and  that  devotion  the  work  of  the  Lord 
would  drag,  and  we  should  not  do  the 
things  that  he  desires  that  we  should 
do.  Thank  you  for  your  devotion,  your 
loyalty,  your  service. 

It  is  a  trite  expression  that  we  live  in 
an  age  of  materialism,  a  materialism 
which  has  enthroned  worldly  things 
and  in  a  materialism  that  has  cast  a 


shadow  even  over  our  spirituality.  As 
I  see  it,  one  of  the  great  reasons  for  this 
is  the  shadow  which  we  have  cast  over 
Jesus  as  the  Christ.  Even  some  of  our 
great  sectarian  churches,  like  ourselves 
sons  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  are  for- 
saking him.  They  are  making  of  Christ, 
as  I  have  often  said,  a  great  teacher,  a 
great  philosopher,  a  great  character, 
where  they  do  not  question  that,  but 
they  deny  to  him  that  he  was  and  is  the 
Christ. 

Of  all  of  the  innumerable  testimonies 
regarding  his  personality,  I  should  like 
to  call  your  attention  only  to  two  or 
three.  The  first  is  the  great  prayer  which 
he  offered  on  the  night  before  his  cruci- 
fixion, after  they  had  left  the  chamber 
and  gone  out  to  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
that  great  prayer:  "And  this  is  life  eter- 
nal, that  they  might  know  thee  the  only 
true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou 
hast  sent."  (John  17:3.)  And  the  testi- 
mony of  Peter  before  the  Sanhedrin, 
when  challenged  as  to  the  name  by 
which  he  had  performed  the  miracle  at 
the  Gate  Beautiful  of  the  temple,  he 
replied:  ".  .  .  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Nazareth,  ...  for  there  is  none  other 
name  under  heaven  given  among  men, 
whereby  we  must  be  saved."  (Acts 
4:10,  12.) 

And  that  testimony  embodied  in  that 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


39 


great  declaration  of  the  Father  himself 
to  Moses,  because  it  is  the  epitome,  the 
summary  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ: 
"For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my 
glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (P.  of  G.  P., 
Moses  1:39.) 

There  has  been  an  apostasy  from  that 
knowledge  of  the  Christ.  You  know, 
the  more  I  contemplate  the  life  of  the 
Savior,  the  more  I  am  impressed,  the 
more  I  come  to  value  his  lowliness,  born 
in  the  home  of  a  lowly  carpenter,  not 
in  the  halls  of  the  great,  not  in  the 
palaces  of  national  rulers,  but  with  royal 
blood  in  his  mortal  veins.  I  am  im- 
pressed with  the  observation  which  he 
made  to  a  man  who  came  seeking  to 
follow  him,  to  go  with  him,  and  he  said 
to  the  man,  "The  foxes  have  holes,  and 
the  birds  of  the  air  have  nests;  but  the 
Son  of  man  hath  not  where  to  lay  his 
head."  (Matt.  8:20.) 

He  was  indifferent,  so  indifferent  to 
the  worldly  things.  His  mind  was  fixed 
quite  otherwise.  The  very  temptation 
that  came  to  him  from  Satan,  when 
Satan  offered  him  all  the  kingdoms  of 
the  world  if  he  would  merely  bow  down 
and  worship  him,  offered  him  all  the 
power  that  could  be  bestowed  through 
human  hands;  but  he  cast  that  aside. 

I  recall  how  after  he  fed  the  multi- 
tude of  five  thousand,  they  would  have 
taken  him  and  made  him  king,  but  he 
thrust  that  aside  also.  Worldly  power 
had  no  allurement.  Worldly  power  was 
not  for  him. 

I  recall  that  as  he  stood  before  Pilate, 
Pilate's  first  question  was  political.  "Art 
thou  the  King  of  the  Jews?  .  .  ."  (Matt. 
27:11.)  And  finally  he  said  to  Pilate, 
who  six  times  tried  to  get  the  Jews  to 
release  Jesus — he  finally  said  to  Pilate, 
"My  kingdom  is  not  of  this  world,"  and 
that  his  mission  was  to  establish  truth, 
and  then  that  poor,  perplexed  Pilate 
queried,  "What  is  truth?"  (See  John 
18:36-38.) 

I  have  in  mind  the  things  which  He 
did,  the  miracles  which  he  performed. 
There  were  only  three  occasions,  I  be- 
lieve, when  he  undertook  specifically  to 
provide  food  for  the  multitude  or  for 
anyone.  The  first  was  the  feeding  of 
the  five  thousand  on  the  mount,  the 
second  was  the  feeding  of  the  four  thou- 
sand on  the  plain,  and  the  third  was 


that  beautiful  incident  on  the  Lake  of 
Galilee  after  he  was  resurrected  when, 
as  the  fishermen,  the  Apostles  who  had 
turned  again  to  fishing,  drew  near  the 
shore  with  their  nets  empty,  he,  the 
Resurrected  Christ,  stood  on  the  shore 
with  coals  of  fire  and  fish  and  bread 
prepared  for  eating. 

I  recall  but  one  instance  where  in  fact 
he  furnished  money,  and  I  am  not  sure 
of  another  incident  somewhat  similar 
to  it.  I  refer  to  the  time  when  he  lacked 
money  for  taxes,  and  he  sent  Peter  down 
to  secure  it  from  the  mouth  of  a  fish. 
He  was  not  providing  money  to  those 
with  whom  he  worked.  The  other  in- 
cident where  money  was  involved  di- 
rectly for  him,  was  when  he  was  asked 
if  taxes  should  be  paid  to  Caesar,  and 
he,  taking  a  coin  and  showing  the  image 
thereon,  said,  "Render  therefore  unto 
Caesar  the  things  which  are  Caesar's; 
and  unto  God  the  things  that  are 
God's."  (Matt.  22:21.) 

As  to  wealth:  You  will  remember  how 
the  rich  young  ruler  came  to  him  and 
asked  what  he  should  do.  The  Savior 
told  him  to  obey  the  commandments. 
He  said,  "Master,  all  these  have  I  ob- 
served from  my  youth."  Then  said  the 
Master,  "Sell  that  thou  hast,  and  give 
to  the  poor  .  .  .  and  follow  me."  And 
the  rich  young  man  turned  away.  (See 
Matt.  19:16-22.)  He  wanted  all  of  the 
spiritual  blessings  which  God  could  be- 
stow, but  at  the  same  time  he  wanted 
to  retain  his  wealth. 

John's  disciples  came  questioning. 

"Now  when  John  had  heard  in  the 
prison  the  works  of  Christ,  he  sent  two 
of  his  disciples, 

"And  said  unto  him,  Art  thou  he  that 
should  come,  or  do  we  look  for  another? 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  them, 
Go  and  shew  John  again  those  things 
which  ye  do  hear  and  see: 

"The  blind  receive  their  sight,  and 
the  lame  walk,  the  lepers  are  cleansed, 
and  the  deaf  hear,  the  dead  are  raised 
up,  and  the  poor  have  the  gospel 
preached  to  them."  (Matt.  11:2-5.) 

That  is  the  work  of  the  Savior. 

On  another  occasion,  he  said  unto 
another,  "Follow  me,"  but  the  other 
said,  "Lord,  suffer  me  first  to  go  and 
bury  my  father.  Jesus  said  unto  him, 
Let  the  dead  bury  their  dead:  but  go 


40 

Saturday,  April  7 

thou  and  preach  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(See  Luke  9:59-60.) 

"And  another  also  said,  Lord,  I  will 
follow  thee;  but  let  me  first  go  bid  them 
farewell,  which  are  at  home  at  my 
house. 

"And  Jesus  said  unto  him,  No  man, 
having  put  his  hand  to  the  plough,  and 
looking  back,  is  fit  for  the  kingdom  of 
God."  (Luke  9:61-62.) 

Much  more  along  this  line  might  be 
said,  but  I  want  to  call  your  attention 
to  his  formula,  the  principle  which 
guided  him,  and  how  beautiful  it  is, 
and  how  it  lets  all  of  us  who  are  poor 
come  to  him,  and  how  it  promises  to  us 
his  spirit.  He  said  in  the  closing  of  the 
incident  that  was  connected  with  the 
coming  of  the  disciples,  "Come  unto  me, 
all  ye  that  labour  and  are  heavy  laden, 
and  I  will  give  you  rest."  (Matt.  11:28.) 

I  thank  the  Relief  Society  for  their 
song. 

"Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn 
of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in 
heart:  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your 
souls. 

"For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden 
is  light."  (Matt.  11:29-30.) 

His  gospel  can  be  lived,  can  be  en- 
joyed by  the  poorest  of  us;  the  poorest 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  us  may  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  gos- 
pel, the  blessings  of  the  priesthood 
which  accompany  it.  We  need  neither 
worldly  position  nor  wealth  in  order  to 
enjoy  all  that  he  has  to  give.  His  is 
the  salvation  and  exaltation  if  we  fol- 
low him,  of  all  of  us.  There  is  nothing 
requiring  more  than  a  broken  heart  and 
a  contrite  spirit,  and  all  that  flows 
therefrom. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  the  power  so  to 
live  that  we  may  have  the  blessings 
which  he  has  promised;  may  he  give  us, 
to  each  of  us,  the  broken  heart  and  the 
contrite  spirit;  may  we  turn  to  Jesus 
the  Christ,  the  Author  of  our  salvation, 
our  Elder  Brother;  may  we  worship  him 
in  spirit  and  in  truth;  may  we  approach 
our  Heavenly  Father  through  him,  that 
his  blessings  may  be  ours,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  of  the 
First  Presidency  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
We  shall  now  hear  Elder  Adam  S.  Ben- 
nion  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay,  my  brethren  and 
sisters:  To  look  at  this  great  audience 
and  to  follow  the  strength  of  these 
leaders  behind  us,  makes  a  man  hum- 
ble. I  sincerely  trust  that  the  Lord  may 
give  me  his  spirit  through  the  few  min- 
utes that  I  shall  occupy. 

It  is  a  stirring  thing  to  listen  to  these 
mothers  sing.  I  think  when  I  was  a 
baby  I  must  have  been  rocked  asleep 
by  a  good  mother  because  I  have  loved 
music  ever  since.  Sister  [Florence  J.] 
Madsen  continues  to  be  a  great  blessing 
to  this  Church,  and  through  her  to  all 
these  wonderful  women  we  give  our  ap- 
preciation. 

President  McKay  yesterday  afternoon 
against  the  pressure  of  time,  with  his 
usual  graciousness,  gave  me  a  promise 
that  I  might  suffer  through  another 
night.  And  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to 
his  prophetic  insight.   All  night  long  I 


suffered  the  pain  of  an  undelivered 
speech.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  some  of  my 
good  friends  at  the  close  of  the  meeting 
yesterday  afternoon  said  I  had  never 
before  been  so  effective. 

This  is  my  first  experience  with  a 
warmed-over  speech.  I  was  so  impressed 
with  the  presence  of  these  fine  young 
men  from  Oklahoma  and  Missouri  and 
Texas,  had  I  said  it  yesterday  afternoon 
all  I  had  in  my  heart  then  to  say  was, 
"The  eyes  of  Texas  are  upon  you."  Not 
only  the  eyes  of  Texas  but  also  the  eyes 
of  the  Church  are  upon  you,  and  the  eyes 
of  all  America  are  upon  you.  When 
you  take  to  the  blue  going  back  home, 
just  know  that  our  prayers  go  with  you, 
with  you  and  the  stewardesses,  too.  We 
are  judged  by  the  young  men  and 
women  of  this  Church,  and  could  I 
have  said  it  in  the  presence  of  that  fine 
student  body  choir  from  BYU,  I  would 


ELDER  ADAM 

have  said  the  Church  is  measured  in  no 
small  part  by  the  lives  you  fine  young 
men  and  women  live. 

I  met  with  a  group  of  boys  like  these 
up  in  faraway  Alaska.  As  I  visited  with 
them,  I  asked  them  how  they  were  get- 
ting on  and  whether  they  saved  any- 
thing. One  of  those  fine  young  men 
said,  "I  have  plans  ahead.  I  am  saving 
an  E  Bond — it  is  true  it  is  a  small  one, 
only  $18.75  a  month,  but  if  I  stay  here 
for  three  years  I  will  have  $1,000,  and 
then  if  I  have  the  good  fortune  to  get 
my  GI  benefits,  I  am  on  my  way  through 
college."  That  prompted  the  thought 
that  when  we  talk  of  Bonds,  we  usually 
talk  in  terms  of  money.  But  there  are 
other  bonds,  and  I  want  to  turn  to  them 
for  just  a  few  minutes  this  morning. 

Following  yesterday's  inspiring  mes- 
sage from  our  President,  I  turned  to  a 
book  that  was  handed  me  by  my  good 
friend,  Orval  Adams,  a  collection  of 
talks  of  Frank  Totton,  one  of  the  out- 
standing businessmen  of  America.  When 
he  died,  his  good  wife  gathered  together, 
as  a  fitting  memorial  to  her  husband, 
some  of  the  things  that  he  had  said. 
The  friendliness  of  Orval  Adams  who 
put  the  book  in  my  hands,  I  shall  al- 
ways appreciate. 

I  beg  you  to  remember  that  this  is  the 
speech  of  a  man  who  spent  his  life  in 
banking.  But  he  said  to  some  fine  men 
of  America,  "There  are  finer  bonds  than 
money  bonds.  They  are  more  secure, 
and  they  pay  finer  interest."  I  want  to 
turn  to  just  one  of  the  bonds  to  which 
he  made  reference. 

I.  And  I  quote:  "There  are  family 
Bonds."  I  wish  he  could  have  sat  here 
yesterday  morning.  "Nothing  can  im- 
pair these  ties  except  ourselves.  The 
average  modern  home  is  equipped  with 
countless  inventions  which  have  prac- 
tically eliminated  the  drudgery  of  house- 
work. The  mechanics  of  the  home  are 
faultless,  but  mechanics  do  not  make 
a  happy  home.  The  success  or  failure 
of  human  relationships  determines  the 
value  of  human  bonds.  Some  of  us  in  mo- 
ments of  discouragement  may  think  that 
the  American  home  is  breaking  down. 
But  in  spite  of  the  widely  chronicled 
divorce  cases  the  fact  remains  that  many 
families  are  happy  families:  the  father 
and  mother  still  in  love  with  each  other 
and  the  children  dutiful  and  respectful. 


S.  BENNION  41 

Business  success,  honors,  titles,  and  re- 
wards in  the  last  analysis  are  all  brought 
home  to  the  family,  and  all  those  glitter- 
ing accomplishments  are  empty  honors 
indeed  if  one  has  not  a  proud  family 
to  share  them.  The  family  is  by  far 
the  most  important  single  institution  in 
our  commonwealth,  and  happy  indeed 
is  the  man,  who,  when  he  closes  his 
desk  at  night  has  before  him  the  glad- 
some picture  of  the  sparkling  family 
group  with  which  he  shortly  will  have 
his  evening  meal.  Family  bonds  are 
gilt-edged  investments.  If  you  wish  to 
check  me  on  this,  'ask  the  man  who 
owns  one.'" 

I  am  prompted  by  that  little  article 
and  what  we  listened  to  yesterday  morn- 
ing to  add  these  humble  suggestions  to 
the  parents  who  would  continue  to  hold 
gilt-edged  family  bonds: 

1.  Live  as  you  would  have  your  children 
live. 

2.  Breathe  affection  into  the  family's  cir- 
cle by  "staying  engaged"  as  the  years  come 
and  go. 

3.  Anticipate  situations  and  keep  discipline 
in  the  spirit  of  section  121  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants. 

4.  Know  your  children's  companions.  In- 
vite them  to  share  your  home.  Establish 
sensible  coming-in  times  at  night  and  know 
fully  where  their  evening  entertainment 
takes  them. 

5.  Cultivate  a  family  with  shared  re- 
sponsibility in  the  home.  The  unkindest 
thing  that  parents  who  have  worked  hard 
can  do  in  their  lives  is  to  deny  the  children 
the  blessed  privilege  of  work  under  responsi- 
ble assignments. 

6.  Feature  regular  family  prayers. 

7.  Build  a  spirit  in  the  home  in  keeping 
with  Galatians  5:22. 

If  I  had  a  theme  this  morning  it  would 
be  "Bonds— Series  F."  You  have  had 
your  experience  with  the  E  bonds;  these 
are  F  bonds.  The  first  one  is  that  fam- 
ily bond  to  which  I  have  made  refer- 
ence. 

II.  The  second  is  the  Bond  of  friend- 
ship, one  of  the  richest  bonds  in  all 
the  world. 

I  was  prompted  to  say  as  I  looked  out 
over  this  audience,  do  not  come  to  this 
conference  with  ten  thousand  people 
without  shaking  hands  with  two  or  three 
good  men  and  women  you  never  have 
met  before.   There  are  wonderful  peo- 


42  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  7 

pie  gathered  here.  If  anybody  is  too 
bashful  and  thinks  he  would  be  snub- 
bed, there  is  one  handshake  from  one 
man  who  would  love  to  share  it  with 
you. 

I  like  to  think  of  David  and  Jonathan 
— of  Ruth  and  Naomi — and  I  like  to 
think  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Hyrum, 
who  died  together.  I  like  to  think  of  the 
three  men  who  sit  behind  me.  I  like 
to  think  of  the  men  that  we  visit  week 
after  week,  you  men  who  constitute  stake 
presidencies  and  high  councils  and  bish- 
oprics, presidents  of  organizations — you 
will  all  bear  me  witness  that  along  with 
all  the  gifts  that  come  as  a  result  of  your 
callings,  there  is  the  blessed  privilege  of 
knowing  one  another  well — the  privilege 
of  finding  out  how  wonderful  people  can 
be. 

I  have  always  loved  Dr.  Samuel  John- 
son's famous  admonition:  "If  a  man  does 
not  make  new  acquaintances  as  he  ad- 
vances through  life,  he  will  soon  find 
himself  alone.  A  man  should  keep  his 
friendship  in  constant  repair."  (Ital.  au- 
thor's.) 

Then  I  think  of  that  wonderful  line 
from  Shakespeare: 

Those  friends  thou  hast,  and  their  adop- 
tion tried, 

Grapple  them  to  thy  soul  with  hoops  of 
steel.  (Shakespeare,  Hamlet  1,  111,  62-63.) 

Philips  Brooks  added  the  thought, 
"There  is  no  more  beautiful  sight  to  see 
in  all  this  world — full  as  it  is  of  beau- 
tiful adjustments  and  mutual  ministra- 
tions— than  the  growth  of  two  friends' 
natures,  who  as  they  grow  old  together, 
are  always  fathoming  with  newer  needs, 
deeper  depths  of  each  other's  life,  and 
opening  richer  veins  of  each  other's  help- 
fulness." 

III.  But  the  third  of  this  series  F  bonds 
I  want  to  leave  with  you  this  morning 
is  Bonds  of  faith. 

I  am  so  glad  that  this  conference  was 
launched  upon  the  basis  of  something 
you  can  do.  It  is  no  mere  academic  sort 
of  thing;  it  is  a  way  of  life,  this  religion 
of  ours.   We  can  say  with  Micah: 

He  hath  shewed  thee,  O  man,  what  is 
good;  and  what  doth  the  Lord  require  of 
thee,  but  to  do  justly,  and  to  love  mercy, 
and  to  walk  humbly  with  thy  God?  (Micah 
6:8.) 


Second  Day 

Family,  friends,  and  faith,  to  me  are 
three  of  the  supreme  values  of  life  I 

Two  days  ago  we  had  the  privilege 
of  listening  to  the  witnesses  of  thirty- 
one  mission  presidents.  Among  the  won- 
derful things  they  told  us  was  the  re- 
port of  a  conference  in  faraway  Japan, 
where  people  sat  all  day  long  in  a  room 
unhealed,  so  cold  that  every  Saint 
gathered  could  see  his  own  breath 
through  the  whole  conference — but  they 
stayed.  That  takes  faith. 

Crowded  into  this  life,  rich  in  experi- 
ence through  all  the  years,  I  bring  you 
an  experience  that  is  a  tremendous 
tribute  to  faith.  It  was  not  written  in 
a  parlor,  and  it  does  not  reflect  the  ease 
and  the  comfort  of  a  hammock  under  a 
tree.  The  little  woman  who  penned 
these  half-dozen  lines  sat  guardian 
through  days  and  nights  over  a  son 
suffering  cancer  of  the  bone.  Within 
the  year  she  had  lost  her  husband  and 
faced  the  problem  of  trying  to  establish 
a  farm  with  her  nine  children.  She 
lives  in  my  state.  I  am  proud  to  know 
that  women  like  this  still  live.  With 
nine  children,  the  eldest  of  whom  was 
stricken  so  that  only  a  miracle  could 
preserve  him,  she  wrote  this: 

I  wrote  my  prayer  of  faith  while  I  waited 
one  awful  night  alone  beside  my  boy  in  the 
hospital: 

Let  me  ride  brave  and  buoyant  on  the  angry 

waves  of  life — 
Let  me  see  to  pluck  the  sweetness  from  each 

moment  of  strife — 
Let  me  borrow  no  trouble — 
Feel  no  pangs  of  fear — 
Let  strength,  calmness,  peace  be  mine 
For  I  know  Lord,  thou  art  near. 

That  is  faith  1 

You  can  invest  in  faith,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  and  it  pays  rich  dividends, 
rich  beyond  any  of  the  bonds  I  know. 

Will  you  let  me  close  with  my  simple 
witness  to  you  in  the  terms  of  the  faith 
that  I  cherish?  I  was  born  into  this 
Church,  proud  that  one  grandfather 
came  into  the  valley  in  '47  and  that  an- 
other one  used  to  freight  between  here 
and  the  Missouri  River.  With  that  kind 
of  heritage,  God  forbid  that  I  should 
ever  falter  in  the  faith  of  those  progeni- 
tors. 

I  have  studied  this  gospel  through 
four  universities,  and  I  am  so  happy  to  be 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


43 


able  to  say  that  the  more  I  have  studied, 
the  more  wonderful  this  gospel  be- 
comes— so  simple,  so  sublime,  so  satisfy- 
ing. I  give  you  my  witness  I  have  tried 
this  gospel  on,  and  it  works — it  works  in 
every  situation  in  life.  And  finally,  I 
give  you  my  testimony  that  the  witness 
has  come.  It  has  come  from  Cumorah; 
it  has  come  from  Alaska;  it  has  come 
from  Hawaii;  it  has  come  from  the 
hearthstone  in  my  own  home.  I  know 
as  I  stand  here  that  God  lives  and  hears 
and  answers  prayers.  The  recipient  of 
answers  to  those  prayers  bids  you  to 
build  richly,  to  invest  in  the  bonds 


that  never  fail — bonds  of  family,  of  true, 
sacred  friends,  and  faith  in  Almighty 
God. 

And  I  leave  that  witness  with  you, 
humbly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Brother  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 suppose  that  the  singing  which  most 
of  us  first  remember  is  the  singing 
of  our  mothers.  I  can  remember,  as 
a  child,  my  cheeks  wet  with  tears  for 
the  sweetness  of  my  mother's  singing. 
Music  can  be  very  mechanical  or  it 
can  stir  and  feed  and  satisfy  the  soul. 
Of  such  we  have  heard  here  this  day, 
and  with  you  I  am  grateful  for  the 
sweetness  or  the  singing  of  these  mothers 
here  assembled. 

There  is  a  sweet  presence  which  I 
miss  here  this  morning,  and  did  yester- 
day—that of  Sister  McKay.  I  should 
like  her  to  know  that  she  is  much  missed 
at  this  conference.  I  have  seen  her  and 
her  beloved  husband  in  their  gracious- 
ness  together  in  various  countries,  under 
many  conditions,  and  when  our  Presi- 
dent spoke  of  love  at  home  yesterday 
and  of  what  pertains  to  the  making  of 
a  good  home,  I  am  sure  he  was  speak- 
ing out  of  the  experience  of  his  life  and 
heart,  for  his  courtly  graciousness  and 
gentlemanly  consideration  of  Sister 
McKay  on  all  occasions,  under  all  con- 
ditions, and  in  all  places,  has  been  a 
source  of  inspiration. 

At  a  time  of  conference  I  am  always 
faced  with  a  dilemma — one  which  stems 
from  the  necessity  of  selecting  always 
two  subjects:  one  for  the  Sunday  morn- 
ing CBS  broadcast  and  one  for  the 
regular  conference  sessions.  It  isn't 
ever  easy.  Those  who  work  with  me  at 
the  office  know  that  I  seldom  select  a 
subject  for  Sunday  before  Friday,  and  my 
family  well  know  that  the  agonizing 


experience  between  Saturday  evening 
and  Sunday  morning  does  not  see  these 
short  subjects  in  their  final  form  until 
a  very  late  hour.  That  is  a  dangerous 
way  to  live,  a  hazardous  wayl 

People  often  ask  why  I  do  not  work 
farther  ahead.  I  cannot  tell  you  why.  I 
wish  I  could  prepare  in  advance,  and  I 
have  no  criticism  of  those  who  do — I 
only  envy  them.  But  I  have  a  conviction 
from  experience  that  there  is  a  kind  of 
contagion  in  the  air,  and  if  one  waits 
to  catch  it,  he  will  come  closer  to  the 
spirit  of  the  occasion  than  if  he  pre- 
pares too  far  in  advance.  I  have  tried 
it  both  ways,  and  those  things,  even  for 
radio,  which  I  have  prepared  too  far  in 
advance  seem  to  have  a  sort  of  pre- 
prepared  flavor. 

Fortunately  for  me  today  the  theme  I 
selected  for  tomorrow  morning  has  been 
running  concurrently  in  my  mind  with 
that  which  I  should  like  to  say  in  just 
a  few  words  at  this  session  of  confer- 
ence. 

It  is  interesting  how,  in  reading  scrip- 
ture over  and  over  again,  one  often, 
after  many  readings  and  a  long  time, 
quite  unexpectedly  finds  some  word  or 
phrase  that  comes  into  his  consciousness 
with  a  new  and  particular  meaning.  I 
have  had,  within  the  last  few  hours, 
just  such  an  experience. 

This  scripture,  so  familiar  to  you, 
and  which  will  perhaps  be  the  theme 
of  the  broadcast  tomorrow  morning,  is 
no  doubt  one  of  the  most  quoted  in  the 
Church — one  which  I  have  read  most 


44 

Saturday,  April  7 

often  and  heard  most  often,  even  unto 
thousands  of  times — that  "Whatever 
principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto 
in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with  us  in 
the  resurrection.  And  if  a  person  gains 
more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this 
life"  (and  this  is  the  phrase  that  struck 
me  anew  only  yesterday)  "through  his 
diligence  and  obedience  than  another, 
he  will  have  so  much  the  advantage  in 
the  world  to  come,"  not  just  a  miscel- 
laneous acquisition  of  knowledge,  but 
knowledge  and  intelligence,  through 
diligence  and  obedience.  (See  D  &  G 
130:18,  19.) 

Those  words  are  most  meaningful — 
and  I  have  no  fear  of  learning,  of  the 
pursuit  of  knowledge,  for  any  of  our 
young  people,  if  they  will  keep  in  mind 
diligence  and  obedience — obedience  to 
the  commandments  of  God,  diligence  in 
keeping  close  to  the  Church,  in  keeping 
active,  keeping  prayerful,  keeping  clean, 
keeping  circumspect  in  their  conduct.  It 
isn't  learning  or  the  love  of  learning,  or 
knowledge,  or  the  pursuit  of  any  subject 
that  would  take  from  a  man  his  faith, 
but  it  is  failure  to  keep  the  command- 
ments, the  failure  of  a  man  to  feed  all 
sides  of  himself,  and  on  this  subject  I 
should  like  to  read  just  a  few  lines  that 
I  discarded  from  what  might  be  used 
tomorrow  morning,  and  make  them  serve 
now: 

"Intelligence  would  not  let  a  man 
lose  his  faith  in  finding  truth.  Learn- 
ing does  not  lead  to  loss  of  faith.  False 
learning  might,  but  not  true  learning. 
Lack  of  learning  may.  Ignorance  may. 
Failure  to  keep  the  commandments  may 
lead  to  loss  of  faith.  Loss  of  balance 
may  lead  to  loss  of  faith.  A  man  may 
pursue  learning  along  too  narrow  lines 
and  forget  to  feed  all  sides  of  himself; 
he  may  forget  his  spirit  and  starve  it, 
but  not  learning  itself  leads  to  loss  of 
faith,  not  the  search  for  truth,  for  truth 
cannot  come  in  conflict  with  truth.  A 
man  can  have  the  pure  love  of  learning 
and  seek  for  it  insatiably,  and  still  keep 
a  simple  faith  if  he  will  keep  the  com- 
mandments, if  he  will  feed  his  spirit, 
if  he  will  be  patient,  and  sweet  in  hu- 
mility, and  not  commit  himself  to  quick 
conclusions  or  tentative  theories.  If  he 
will  really  seek  for  eternal  truth,  with 
'diligence  and  obedience'  he  can  keep 
and  pursue  an  insatiable  love  of  learn- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

ing  and  still  keep  his  faith,  for  'the 
glory  of  God  is  intelligence.'" 

(That  isn't  too  bad  for  something 
having  been  thrown  away  from  what 
might  be  used  tomorrow  morningl  May- 
be I  have  been  throwing  away  the  wrong 
stuff!  It's  a  terrible  thing  to  have  to 
put  one's  own  immortal  word-children 
in  the  wastebasket  week  after  week.) 

We  are  committed  to  continuous 
revelation,  to  an  infinite  search  for 
truth,  and  there  are  some  very  significant 
lines  accredited  to  Thomas  Edison  that 
I  should  like  to  share  with  you:  "We 
don't  know  the  millionth  part  of  one 
percent  about  anything.  We  don't  know 
what  water  is.  We  don't  know  what 
electricity  is.  We  don't  know  what  heat 
is.  We  have  a  lot  of  hypotheses  about 
these  things,  but  that  is  all;  but  we  do 
not  let  our  ignorance  about  these  things 
deprive  us  of  their  use." 

We  don't  altogether  know  what  faith 
is,  or  prayer,  and  the  ultimate  meaning 
or  power  of  them.  We  don't  alto- 
gether understand  all  the  command- 
ments, but  the  limitations  of  our  knowl- 
edge should  not  keep  us  from  observing 
them  and  using  them,  as  we  pursue 
learning  and  the  love  of  learning,  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  God  and 
keeping  close  to  him  and  his  truth,  in 
a  well-balanced  life,  in  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  using  it  as  our  standard 
as  the  measure  of  all  things. 

I  am  not  concerned  about  the  un- 
answered questions.  I  should  like  to 
know  all  the  answers,  but  those  I  don't 
know  do  not  bother  me.  This  I  know, 
and  leave  it  with  you  as  the  conviction 
of  my  soul — that  God  lives,  that  Jesus 
the  Christ,  his  divine  and  very  Son, 
lives  and  stands  by  his  side  in  the  God- 
head; that  these  two  did  appear  to  a 
young  man,  more  than  a  century  ago; 
that  we  live;  that  God  made  us  in  his 
image;  that  he  has  unspeakably  great 
eternal  blessings  in  store  for  us  as  we 
will  search  and  seek  and  keep  faith  and 
keep  clean,  and  keep  his  command- 
ments and  live  in  obedience  and  keep 
our  lives  balanced,  and  keep  close  to 
him. 

In  the  wonderful  words  of  Emerson: 
"All  I  have  seen  teaches  me  to  trust  the 
Creator  for  all  I  have  not  seen." 

God  bless  you,  my  brothers  and  sis- 
ters, in  all  things  as  you  meet  the  daily 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


45 


decisions  of  life  and  move  on  to  those 
great  as  yet  unseen  activities  and  oppor- 
tunities of  eternity,  toward  which  the 
ways  of  all  of  us  move,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  congregation  will  now 
join  with  the  Singing  Mothers  in  sing- 
ing, "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice."  Elder  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie,  the  Assistant  Director 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  will  lead  us. 


Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  speak  to  us  following  the 
singing. 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  joined 
with  the  congregation  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Now,  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day 
of  Salvation." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us.  Elder 
Longden  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I have  no  desire  to  stand  here  alone. 
Humbly,  in  every  fiber  of  my  being, 
I  seek  the  blessing  of  my  Heavenly 
Father  that  has  been  so  richly  mani- 
fest here  this  morning  as  we  have  lis- 
tened to  his  true  servants  speak  under 
his  inspiration. 

The  hymn  we  have  just  sung  ["Now 
Let  Us  Rejoice"]  calls  to  mind  an  in- 
spirational experience  I  shared  just  about 
six  months  ago  with  President  and 
Sister  Jacobsen  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission.  We  visited  Brother  and  Sister 
Moss  who  are  assigned  to  take  care  of 
the  Peter  Whitmer  home  in  close  prox- 
imity where  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organized  126 
years  ago.  I  suggested  we  sing  "Now  Let 
Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation."  I 
am  grateful  for  the  inspiration  of  that 
moment.  The  day  of  salvation,  yes — 

.  .  .  but  there  be  some  that  trouble  you, 
and  would  pervert  the  gospel  of  Christ. 

But  though  we,  or  an  angel  from  heaven, 
preach  any  other  gospel  unto  you  than 
that  which  we  have  preached  unto  you,  let 
him  be  accursed.  (Gal.  1:7-8.) 

These  were  the  words  of  the  Apostle 
Paul  to  the  Galatians  almost  two  thou- 
sand years  ago.  I  testify  to  you  this 
morning  the  words  you  hear  in  this 
conference  are  truly  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  It  is  his  gospel — not  the  gospel 
of  Peter,  not  the  gospel  of  Mark,  not  the 
gospel  of  Paul,  not  the  gospel  of  John, 
or  any  of  the  other  of  those  great  apos- 


tles— they  are  merely  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  ordained  to  preach 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  should  like  to  call  the  attention  of 
the  young  people  here  and  in  the  un- 
seen audience  to  one  or  two  thoughts 
which  I  trust  will  be  a  stimulation. 
Following  the  excellent  remarks  that 
have  been  given  already,  truly  the  word 
of  the  Lord,  I  would  hope  to  continue 
in  the  same  spirit. 

How  does  our  spiritual  growth  com- 
pare with  our  material  progress?  I 
realize  that  there  would  be  those  who 
would  pervert  the  gospel,  who  would 
endeavor  to  weaken  faith,  who  would 
endeavor  to  weaken  the  testimony  of 
you  young  people  as  you  go  to  study 
and  improve  your  minds  and  to  develop 
the  intelligence  which  God  has  given 
you,  but  I  humbly  plead  that  you  will 
always  remember  and  understand  who 
you  are  as  you  seek  to  study  and  to  im- 
prove your  minds.  See  that  your  spirit- 
ual growth  keeps  up  with  your  material 
and  economic  progress. 

I  testify  to  you  that  you  are  the  light 
of  the  world.  Just  previous  to  the  state- 
ment which  I  quoted  from  Paul  to  the 
Galatian  saints  two  thousand  years  ago, 
Jesus  Christ,  in  his  Sermon  on  the 
Mount  said, 

Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city 
that  is  set  on  an  hill  cannot  be  hid. 

Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and  put 
it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a  candlestick;  and 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in  the 
house. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that 
they  may  see  your  good  works,  and  glorify 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt. 
5:14-16.) 

You  have  the  opportunity  to  be  the 
light  of  the  world,  for  today  is  a  new 
day.  The  eyes  of  the  world,  I  feel,  are 
upon  us.  All  the  glorious  things  that 
have  occurred  within  recent  months-^ 
the  visit  of  the  choir  to  Europe,  the 
dedication  of  the  temple  in  Switzerland, 
and  then  the  Los  Angeles  Temple  a  few 
weeks  ago,  have  focused  much  attention 
on  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In  an  hour 
and  a  half  in  Los  Angeles  in  a  taxi  and 
on  a  bus  and  in  a  store,  several  people 
who  did  not  know  who  we  were — 
neither  Sister  Longden  nor  I,  asked  if 
we  had  seen  the  Mormon  temple,  and 
all  seemed  most  anxious  to  talk  about 
it.  They  said,  "Be  sure  you  see  the 
Mormon  temple  and  see  the  Angel 
Moroni." 

I  thrill  as  I  see  tourists  come  to  these 
grounds  and  on  Main  Street  and  look 
heavenward  to  see  the  Angel  Moroni. 
There  is  much  gratitude  and  apprecia- 
tion swelling  in  my  heart  that  that  light 
has  come  into  our  lives.  We  should 
understand  the  message  that  he  has  de- 
livered to  the  earth. 

Yes,  do  not  leave  the  Lord  out  of 
your  studies.  A  few  weeks  ago  I  read 
the  story  of  a  great  physician.  Someone 
said  to  him,  "How  does  it  feel  to  have 
within  your  hands  the  power  of  life 
and  death  as  you  operate?"  And  he 
said,  "I  never  feel  that  way.  In  fact, 
in  my  younger  days  when  I  was  cock- 
sure, I  was  glorying  in  my  record.  I 
was  not  humble.  In  an  operation  I 
had  to  reach  a  hairbreadth  decision, 
and  I  was  incorrect.  So  for  some  years 
I  did  not  practise,  and  then  as  I  sat  one 
day  meditating  upon  my  failure,  there 
was  a  spirit  came  to  me.  It  seemed  to 
say,  'God  has  given  you  these  hands. 
God  has  given  you  your  brains — develop 
them  and  utilize  them  in  worth-while 
effort,'  and  so  now,  since  taking  up  my 
practice  again,  I  never  take  scalpel  in 
hand  unless  there  is  a  prayer  in  my 
heart,  'O  God,  guide  my  hands,  and 
give  to  me  of  thy  knowledge,  for  thou 
art  the  Great  Physician,  and  I  am  only 
thy  servant.'" 


Second  Day 

I  pray  that  we  will  have  the  desire 
to  develop  our  spiritual  selves,  for  only 
under  and  by  and  through  that  spirit 
can  we  attain  the  great  accomplishments 
that  are  held  out  for  us  by  our  Heavenly 
Father.  I  ask,  as  you  study  the  philos- 
ophies, that  you  will  give  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  an  even  break.  Study  con- 
sistently the  truths  embodied  in  this 
great  gospel,  which  I  testify  to  you  has 
been  restored  to  the  earth  in  its  ful- 
ness. Latter-day  Saints  need  not  wan- 
der in  darkness. 

In  conclusion  I  should  like  to  give 
you  a  spiritual  thought.  I  visited  the 
Juarez  Stake  just  a  little  over  two  years 
ago.  I  went  out  into  an  apple  orchard. 
I  saw  there  a  glorious  harvest  which 
they  were  reaping,  the  like  of  which 
I  had  never  seen  before.  Branches  were 
literally  touching  the  ground,  they  were 
so  heavily  laden  with  delicious  fruit. 
I  know  they  were  delicious  because  I 
sampled  several  of  those  apples.  They 
were  delicious  by  name  and  also  to 
taste. 

I  said  to  the  stake  president:  "How 
come?  Do  you  have  a  harvest  like 
this  every  year?"  He  said,  "No,  this 
orchard  is  ten  years  old,  and  this  is  the 
first  time  I  have  ever  had  or  experi- 
enced such  a  crop." 

I  said,  "How  do  you  account  for  it?" 

"I'll  tell  you.  I  decided  deliberately 
to  do  something  about  it  because  I 
wasn't  happy  with  the  results  I  was 
getting,  and  so  last  spring  I  placed  a 
bouquet  of  flowers  in  every  apple  tree 
in  that  orchard,  and  then  God  provided 
the  rest,  for  the  bees  came  along,  and 
they  feasted  upon  those  flowers,  and 
they  pollenizea  those  apple  trees,  and 
here  is  the  rich  harvest." 

And  I  likened  that  to  our  lives.  Are 
we  pollenizing  our  spiritual  lives  with 
the  things  contained  in  the  four  standard 
works  of  the  Church,  which  have  been 
so  beautifully  called  to  our  attention 
in  this  conference?  God  is  anxious  and 
ready  to  help  us  if  we  will  only  learn 
of  him.  I  humbly  pray,  young  people, 
that  you  will  not  leave  the  Lord  out  of 
your  lives;  and  as  you  study,  regardless 
of  what  the  subject  may  be,  you  will 
realize  that  there  is  need  to  develop 
your  spiritual  natures. 

God  bless  us  so  to  do,  and  ever  to  be 
humble  in  accepting  his  blessings  and 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


47 


extending  unto  him  our  gratitude.  I 
know  that  he  lives.  I  know  that  he  is 
ready  to  bless  us  if  we  will  be  obedient, 
diligent  students,  ever  striving  to  be 
influenced  by  his  spirit.  This  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
our  Savior.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us.  We  will 
now  hear  from  Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaac- 
son of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter. 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  brethren  of  the 
General  Authorities,  and  my  dear 
brothers  and  sisters:  I  feel  very  humble 
this  morning  standing  before  this  great 
audience,  this  wonderful  audience.  I 
humbly  pray  that  the  Lord  will  answer 
my  prayers  and  sustain  me  and  guide 
me  in  what  I  shall  say. 

If  I  have  the  strength  and  if  I  may  be 
forgiven,  I  should  like  to  thank  my  wife 
for  a  prayer  that  she  offered  this  morn- 
ing. As  we  had  our  family  prayers,  she 
asked  if  she  could  say  a  prayer,  also, 
and  I  felt  ashamed  that  I  had  not  asked 
her  without  her  asking  me.  I  think, 
brethren,  that  we  ought  to  have  our 
wives  join  often  in  our  prayers.  While 
they  may  not  hold  the  priesthood,  I  am 
not  so  sure  that  the  Holy  Ghost  does 
not  function  in  the  lives  of  our  wives 
and  mothers  in  probably  a  keener  sense 
than  in  our  own.  After  she  had  prayed 
for  President  McKay  and  all  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church,  she  made 
a  special  petition  to  the  Lord  for  her 
husband  and  asked  that  he  could  be 
blessed  with  courage,  and  then  she  said, 
"For  courage  cometh  of  the  Lord." 

Yes,  young  people,  courage  cometh 
from  the  Lord.  Argument,  debate,  criti- 
cism, and  faultfinding  are  not  of  the 
Lord.  Despondency  and  discouragement 
are  not  of  the  Lord.  Courage  cometh 
from  the  Lord. 

On  Thursday  morning  it  was  our 
privilege  as  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church  to  meet  the  First  Presidency  in 
the  temple  preparatory  for  this  great 
conference.  I  do  not  have  the  ability  to 
express  to  you  and  share  with  you  the 
spirit  of  that  meeting,  but  I  can  testify 
to  you  that  I  know  that  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  was  there  in  rich  abundance  and 
that  the  prayers  that  were  offered  and 


instructions  that  we  received  were  di- 
vine. 

Someone  said  at  the  close  of  the  meet- 
ing in  the  temple,  "If  we  could  only  go 
now  from  this  beautiful  meeting  in  the 
temple  to  the  conference,  then  we  would 
not  need  to  worry,  because  of  the  beauti- 
ful spirit  present."  I  believe  that  same 
sweet  spirit  that  existed  in  the  meeting 
in  the  temple  has  carried  over  in  full 
according  to  the  prayers  and  the  suppli- 
cations there,  pleading  with  the  Lord 
to  bless  the  conference.  Yes,  I  think  the 
same  sweet  spirit  has  been  here  as  we 
prayed  to  the  Lord  that  it  would  be. 

Much  has  been  said  about  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  I  shall  not  forget  the  visit 
I  recently  made  to  the  Susquehanna 
River  and  the  feeling  that  I  had  as  I 
stood  somewhere  near  the  spot  where 
the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
went  to  seek  the  guidance  of  the  Lord, 
and  where  John  the  Baptist  appeared  to 
them.  I  wonder  if  we  can  imagine  how 
they  must  have  felt  when  the  heavenly 
messenger  appeared  to  them. 

You  know,  when  the  Prophet  received 
his  first  vision,  there  were  some  who 
said  he  was  not  a  learned  man.  Perhaps 
not,  if  you  judge  by  the  knowledge  of 
men,  but  he  had  seen  God.  He  knew 
more  about  God  than  any  other  man  in 
his  dispensation.  He  had  seen  the  Res- 
urrected Christ.  He  knew  more  about 
Jesus  than  any  other  man  in  this  dis- 
pensation. To  know  God  and  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ,  as  Joseph  Smith  knew 
them,  is  divine  power  and  the  fountain 
of  all  knowledge.  Someone  has  said, 
"He  who  knows  books  knows  much;  he 
who  knows  nature  knows  more;  but  he 
who  knows  God  has  reached  the  goal  of 
human  wisdom." 

Much  has  been  said  about  the  visita- 
tion of  John  the  Baptist  to  the  Prophet 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

and  to  Oliver.  Oh,  the  feeling  that  they 
must  have  had!  Oliver  Cowdery  at- 
tempted to  write  a  letter  to  his  brother, 
explaining  the  kind  of  feeling  he  had 
when  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  was  be- 
stowed upon  him.  Their  eyes  of  spir- 
itual understanding  were  opened.  May 
I  read  a  copy  of  the  letter  that  Oliver 
sent  to  his  brother  describing  the  visit 
of  John  the  Baptist  and  the  restoration 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood? 

On  a  sudden,  as  from  the  midst  of  eter- 
nity, the  voice  of  the  Redeemer  spake  peace 
to  us  while  the  veil  was  parted  and  the 
angel  of  God  came  down  clothed  with  glory 
and  delivered  the  anxiously  looked  for  mes- 
sage, and  the  keys  of  the  gospel  of  re- 
pentance. What  joyl  what  wonder!  what 
amazement!  While  the  world  was  racked 
and  distracted — while  millions  were  groping 
as  the  blind  for  the  wall,  and  while  all 
men  were  resting  upon  uncertainty,  as  a 
general  mass,  our  eyes  beheld — our  ears 
heard.  As  in  the  "blaze  of  day";  yes,  more 
— above  the  glitter  of  the  May  sunbeam, 
which  then  shed  its  brilliancy  over  the 
face  of  nature!  Then  his  voice,  though  mild, 
pierced  to  the  center,  and  his  words,  "I  am 
thy  fellow-servant,"  dispelled  every  fear.  We 
listened,  we  gazed,  we  admired!  'Twas  the 
voice  of  an  angel  from  glory — 'twas  a  mes- 
sage from  the  Most  High,  and  as  we  heard 
we  rejoiced,  while  his  love  enkindled  upon 


Second  Day 

our  souls,  and  we  were  rapt  in  the  vision  of 
the  Almighty!  Where  was  room  lor  doubt? 
Nowhere;  uncertainty  had  fled,  doubt  had 
sunk,  no  more  to  rise,  while  fiction  and 
deception  had  fled  forever.  But,  dear 
brother,  think  further,  think  for  a  moment 
what  joy  filled  our  hearts  and  with  what 
surprise  we  must  have  bowed,  (for  who 
would  not  have  bowed  the  knee  for  such  a 
blessing?)  when  we  received  under  his  hands 
the  Holy  Priesthood, .  . .  (D.H.C.  1:43.) 

May  I  plead  with  the  boys  of  the  Aa- 
ronic Priesthood  and  the  men  holding 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  to  value  highly 
that  great  blessing  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. May  I  plead  with  you,  my  breth- 
ren, my  friends,  and  my  associates,  my 
business  acquaintances,  to  make  such 
adjustments  as  necessary  in  your  lives 
and  do  not  put  it  off  too  long  so  that 
you  can  have  the  joy  and  the  blessings 
that  come  from  the  Holy  Priesthood. 

God  bless  you,  I  pray,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from  El- 
der Milton  R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  Seventy. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is 
with  deep  humility  that  I  occupy 
this  position  this  morning.  I  sin- 
cerely ask  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  and  that  the  spirit  of  God  may 
direct  the  things  that  I  may  say. 

During  the  past  eleven  years  in  which 
I  have  served  as  a  member  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy,  I  have  had  the 
marvelous  opportunity,  privilege,  and 
blessing  of  participating  in  missionary 
work  both  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  and  in 
the  foreign  missions.  I  am  indeed  grate- 
ful for  the  numerous  blessings  derived 
therefrom  and  humbly  express  sincere 
thanks  to  my  Father  in  heaven.  I  also 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  deep 
gratitude  to  President  David  O.  McKay, 
to  his  Counselors,  and  to  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  to  any 
others  who  have  had  a  part  in  giving  me 


my  assignments,  because  I  love  mission- 
ary work  very  much  and  have  a  strong 
testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  know  that  the  missionary  program 
is  one  of  the  greatest  assignments  that 
God  has  given  to  the  Church  in  this 
dispensation.  I  thoroughly  appreciate 
the  fact  that  the  responsibility  rests 
upon  you  and  me  to  take  the  gospel  to 
every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and  peo- 
ple preparatory  for  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man.  It  is  my  firm  conviction 
that  when  we  have  done  this  job  suffi- 
ciently well,  the  Lord  will  accept  our 
sacrifices,  our  efforts,  and  our  accom- 
plishments, and  will  usher  in  the  mil- 
lennial reign.  The  Savior  told  his 
apostles  that 

.  .  .  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be 
preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


49 


all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come. 
(Matt.  24:14.) 

As  I  stand  here  today,  my  thoughts 
revert  to  the  numerous  wonderful  ex- 
periences which  I  have  enjoyed  while 
touring  various  missions.  Perhaps  para- 
mount in  these  experiences  are  the 
missionary  testimony  and  report  meet- 
ings which  I  have  attended.  These 
meetings  constitute  some  of  the  high- 
lights of  my  life  and  especially  of  my 
participation  in  missionary  work.  In 
these  meetings  the  elders  and  lady  mis- 
sionaries have  poured  out  their  deepest 
feelings  unto  God.  On  numerous  occa- 
sions in  those  meetings  missionary  after 
missionary  in  deep  humility  bore  wit- 
ness that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ — the  Savior  of  the  world,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God, 
and  that  the  gospel  is  on  earth  again; 
and  then  with  the  deepest  of  gratitude 
each  missionary  in  turn  thanked  God 
for  the  privilege  of  serving  in  the  great 
missionary  work,  even  expressing  grati- 
tude for  the  privilege  of  paying  his  own 
expenses  or  of  his  parents  paying  them. 
On  all  of  these  occasions  the  room  was 
filled  with  the  spirit  of  God,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost  bore  witness  to  me  that 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  was  true  and 
that  the  missionary  program  was  of 
supreme  importance.  My  heart  was 
filled  to  overflowing  even  beyond  ex- 

Eression;  and  silently  I  thanked  God 
)r  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  my 
membership  in  the  Church,  for  my 
sacred  testimony,  and  for  my  privilege 
of  participating  in  missionary  work. 

On  many  of  those  occasions  the 
thought  came  to  my  mind:  "If  the  par- 
ents of  these  elders  and  lady  mission- 
aries could  be  here  today  and  could  feel, 
hear,  and  see  what  we  are  experiencing, 
they  would  be  fully  repaid  for  sending 
their  children  on  missions." 

In  addition  to  the  principal  purpose 
of  missionary  work,  i.e.,  finding  the 
honest  in  heart,  teaching  them  the  gos- 
pel, and  thereby  bringing  souls  unto 
God,  I  truly  believe  that  a  mission  is 
one  of  the  greatest  schools  in  the  world 
for  the  personal  development  of  the 
missionaries.  Those  humble  laborers 
who  put  their  hearts  and  souls  into  the 
work  and  lose  themselves  in  the  service 
of  others  naturally  receive  an  individual 
growth  and  development  beyond  their 


greatest  expectations.  I  think  there  is 
no  university  that  can  better  prepare 
our  sons  and  daughters  for  positions  of 
leadership  and  for  life  in  general,  de- 
veloping their  personalities  more  fully, 
than  can  service  in  the  mission  fields. 
From  this  viewpoint,  as  well  as  from 
many  others,  the  missionary  program  is 
marvelous  and  a  great  blessing  to  the 
members  of  God's  kingdom. 

In  addition  to  the  personal  develop- 
ment that  the  missionaries  receive,  they 
attain  an  enrichment  of  one  of  God's 
greatest  gifts — an  increased  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  By  doing  so 
they  receive  hidden  treasures  of  knowl- 
edge— an  absolute  assurance  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  and  that  the  gospel  has 
been  restored  to  earth  again — which 
knowledge  surpasses  anything  which 
they  could  receive  in  a  material  way. 

I  rejoice  in  the  numerous  opportuni- 
ties I  have  had  to  participate  in  the 
various  phases  of  church  work,  and 
especially  do  I  appreciate  the  privilege 
I  have  had  of  touring  twenty-one  mis- 
sions which  has  given  me  the  oppor- 
tunity to  bear  witness  to  the  truthful- 
ness of  the  restored  gospel  and  to  the 
divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  in  practically 
all  of  the  major  cities  from  Alaska  in 
the  north  to  the  Panama  Canal  in  the 
south.  I  sincerely  thank  my  Eternal 
Father  for  these  opportunities  and  once 
again  express  deep  appreciation  to  the 
First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  under  whose  leadership  I  serve. 

Recently  I  had  the  privilege  of  tour- 
ing the  Central  American  Mission.  Its 
headquarters  are  in  Guatemala  City.  I 
am  thoroughly  convinced  that  there  are 
prospects  for  unusual  success  in  this 
mission.  I  am  happy  to  report  that 
under  the  able  leadership  of  President 
and  Sister  Wagner,  the  proselyting  work 
is  going  forward  rapidly  and  success- 
fully. The  missionaries  are  laboring 
faithfully  and  enthusiastically.  There 
was  an  average  attendance  of  229  per- 
cent throughout  the  entire  mission  tour, 
which  fact  indicates  that  the  mission- 
aries had  done  an  unusually  successful 
work  in  preparing  the  Saints  and  in- 
vestigators for  the  conferences  held  dur- 
ing the  mission  tour.  I  congratulate 
President  and  Sister  Wagner,  as  well  as 
the  missionaries  of  the  Central  Ameri- 


50 

Saturday,  April  7 

can  Mission,  for  their  intelligent  efforts 
and  the  high  quality  of  work  that  is  be- 
ing done.  May  God's  blessings  continue 
to  attend  them. 

I  also  congratulate  all  of  the  mission 
presidents  and  their  wives  in  all  the 
missions  throughout  the  world  for  the 
unusual  accomplishments  that  they  are 
achieving.  I  know  that  the  mission 
presidents  are  outstanding  men  and 
their  wives  are  marvelous  women. 
Perhaps  in  no  period  in  church  history 
has  the  leadership  been  better  in  the 
mission  fields  than  at  the  present  time. 
I  also  congratulate  all  of  the  mission- 
aries throughout  the  world  for  the  high 
caliber  of  proselyting  work  that  is  be- 
ing done.  I  know  of  no  time  in  the 
history  of  the  Church  when  the  mis- 
sionary program  has  been  carried  for- 
ward on  as  energetic,  intelligent,  and 
high  plane  in  general  as  is  occurring  at 
the  present  time. 

I  was  especially  grateful  for  the  privi- 
lege of  touring  the  Central  American 
Mission  because  of  my  intense  interest 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  in  the 
Lamanites  or  Indians.  Perhaps  there  is 
no  part  of  either  of  the  Americas  that 
has  as  many  full-blooded  Indians  re- 
siding therein  as  do  some  of  the  coun- 
tries of  Central  America.  This  fact  is 
especially  true  of  Guatemala.  In  that 
country  approximately  sixty  percent  of 
the  people  are  full-blooded  Indians. 
They  are  primarily  of  the  Quiche  Maya 
race.  These  people  have  refrained  from 
marriage  with  white  peoples  primarily 
because  they  believe  that  their  Indian 
blood  and  their  people  in  general  are 
equal,  if  not  superior,  to  the  white  races. 
The  parents  among  the  Quiche  Maya 
people  regulate  the  marriages  of  their 
sons  and  daughters,  just  as  did  the  par- 
ents in  ancient  Israel.  It  is  their  pur- 
pose to  see  that  their  children  marry 
within  their  own  race  and  preserve  their 
own  religion  and  culture  as  far  as  pos- 
sible. 1 

The  Quichd  Mayan  Indians  have  a 
great  heritage  and  an  unusual  culture. 
They  are  a  very  religious  people.  Their 
religion  became  definitely  paganized  fol- 
lowing the  Book  of  Mormon  period; 
however,  a  study  of  their  religious  beliefs 
and  practices  readily  reveals  the  fact 
that  the  roots  of  many  of  their  religious 
practices  extend  back  into  Book  of  Mor- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

mon  times  when  the  true  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  was  had  by  their  ancestors. 

Following  the  Spaniards  conquest  of 
the  Quich£  Mayas  during  the  sixteenth 
century,  the  Catholic  padres  soon  found 
that  they  could  not  stamp  out  the  In- 
dians' religion;  thereupon  they  super- 
imposed as  many  of  the  Catholic  be- 
liefs and  practices  on  the  Indian  religion 
as  the  natives  would  take,  making  the 
Quiche  Mayan  religion  of  today  a  con- 
glomerate. 

It  is  my  personal  belief  that  the 
Quiche  Mayas  of  Guatemala  are  as  di- 
rectly descended  from  Book  of  Mormon 
peoples  as  any  of  the  Indians  of  the 
Western  Hemisphere.  Through  my  re- 
search and  personal  contact  with  these 
people,  I  have  learned  that  they  have 
many  traditions  that  have  a  kinship  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon  teachings.  This 
fact  holds  true  in  the  written  works, 
such  as  the  Title  of  the  Lords  of  Totoni- 
capdn,  the  Popul  Vuh,  and  The  Annals 
of  the  Cakchiquels,  as  well  as  in  their 
oral  traditions,  many  of  which  have 
been  handed  down  from  generation  to 
generation  to  the  present  day.  The  fact 
that  many  of  the  Quiche  Mayas  do  not 
speak  Spanish  but  have  retained  their 
native  tongue  has  made  it  possible  for 
their  traditions  to  be  carried  forward 
unpolluted  to  our  day. 

I  had  been  informed  that  the  Quiche 
Mayas  of  Guatemala  still  retained  many 
of  their  ancient  traditions,  some  of 
which  evidently  had  their  roots  in  Book 
of  Mormon  times,  and  so  when  I  re- 
ceived the  assignment  to  tour  the  Cen- 
tral American  Mission,  I  wrote  to  Presi- 
dent Wagner  and  requested  that  his 
missionaries  arrange  for  me  to  inter- 
view some  of  the  old  Quiche  Maya  In- 
dians at  Totonicapan.  I  advised  the 
president  to  have  the  missionaries  make 
arrangements  for  me  to  interview  some- 
one who  was  well  informed  on  the  tra- 
ditions of  that  people.  In  accordance 
with  my  request,  when  I  arrived  at 
Totonicapan  I  found  that  the  mission- 
aries had  engaged  the  services  of  a  man 
named  Jesus  Caranza  Juarez.  Mr.  Juarez 
was  a  very  intelligent  person.  He  not 
only  spoke  Quiche  Maya,  but  he  also 
was  very  apt  in  the  use  of  the  Spanish 
language.  He  had  been  initiated  in  all 
the  rites  and  rituals  of  the  Quiche  Maya 
religion  and  had  a  thorough  under- 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


51 


standing  of  the  traditions  of  that  people. 
For  these  reasons  he  was  an  ideal  per- 
son to  interview. 

Since  I  do  not  speak  Spanish,  I  asked 
one  of  the  missionaries  to  act  as  in- 
terpreter. I  said  to  the  missionary,  "Do 
not  give  Mr.  Juarez  any  lead  questions 
that  might  indicate  to  him  the  kind  of 
answers  that  we  desire  to  receive.  I 
want  to  know  the  exact  and  accurate 
traditions  of  his  people;  and  so  I  would 
suggest  that  you  ask  simple,  straight- 
forward questions;  for  example,  the  first 
question  I  suggest  that  you  ask  is:  'What 
are  the  Quiche  Maya  practices  and 
teachings  regarding  marriage'?" 

Once  again  I  warned  the  missionary 
to  make  no  explanation  to  Mr.  Juarez 
but  merely  to  give  him  the  direct  ques- 
tion as  I  had  suggested.  This  procedure 
the  missionary  followed.  In  response  to 
the  foregoing  question,  Mr.  Juarez  im- 
mediately replied: 

"Marriage  is  the  most  sacred,  the  most 
revered,  the  most  holy,  and  the  greatest 
of  all  the  religious  teachings  and  prac- 
tices in  the  Quiche  Maya  religion.  We 
have  two  kinds  of  marriages.  In  one 
kind  the  ceremony  is  performed  by  the 
priest.  Only  the  good  people  marry  in 
this  kind  of  marriage.  By  good  people 
I  mean  those  who  do  not  get  drunk, 
those  who  do  not  steal  nor  lie,  and 
those  who  are  morally  clean — in  brief, 
the  people  who  live  in  accordance  with 
all  the  teachings  of  the  Quiche  Maya 
religion." 

Then  he  said,  'The  priest  performs 
the  marriage  ceremony  for  those  good 
people;  and  when  he  marries  them,  they 
are  married  not  only  for  this  life  but 
for  the  next  world  also.  They  remain 
husband  and  wife  forever." 

I  was  surprised,  in  fact  astonished,  to 
get  such  an  explanation  regarding  the 
marriage  custom  of  the  Quiche  Maya 
Indians,  and  so  I  injected  a  question  at 
this  point.  I  said  to  the  missionary, 
"Ask  Mr.  Juarez  where  the  Quiche  Maya 
people  ever  got  such  a  teaching  and 
practice  in  their  religion.  Ask  him  if 
they  got  it  from  the  Catholic  Church?" 

The  reason  I  asked  that  question  is 
because  the  Catholic  religion  is  about 
the  only  one  that  has  made  much  head- 
way in  Guatemala.  The  Quiche  Maya 
Indians  have  had  some  of  the  Catholic 
beliefs  and  practices  superimposed  upon 


their  ancient  paganized  Indian  religion. 

The  missionary  asked  Mr.  Juarez  the 
question  as  directed,  and  Mr.  Juarez 
immediately  replied: 

"Oh,  nol  Certainly  not!  We  did  not 
get  that  teaching  from  the  Catholics. 
The  Catholics  do  not  have  that  kind  of 
marriage,  and  they  never  have  had  that 
kind  of  marriage." 

Then  Mr.  Juarez  explained:  "We  got 
that  type  of  marriage  from  our  ances- 
tors. It  came  down  from  generation  to 
generation  through  tradition.  Our  peo- 
ple practised  that  type  of  marriage  and 
had  a  belief  in  marriage  after  death 
many,  many  years  before  the  Spanish 
conquest.  In  fact,  it  dates  back  as  far 
as  our  traditions  go." 

I  have  never  read  in  the  writings  of 
archaeologists  or  other  students  of  the 
Quiche  Mayas  that  these  Indians  per- 
form marriages  which  they  believe  will 
endure  after  death.  Perhaps  the  fact 
that  these  Indians  believe  that  their 
marriages  continue  for  the  next  world 
would  not  be  of  interest  to  most  people 
who  contact  them,  and  so  authors  would 
neglect  to  make  a  record  of  that  practice 
even  if  they  had  been  told  that  such 
existed. 

Although  I  was  greatly  surprised  to 
find  that  the  Quiche  Maya  Indians  prac- 
tise a  form  of  marriage  which  they  be- 
lieve will  endure  throughout  the  next 
world,  I  was  pleased  to  learn  that  such 
was  their  tradition  because  I  have  un- 
derstood that  every  time  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  has  been  on  the  earth  in 
its  fulness  that  God's  true  law  of  celes- 
tial marriage  constituted  part  of  that 
gospel.  I  also  know  that  the  true  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  was  had  in  ancient 
America  in  Book  of  Mormon  days,  and 
certainly  the  Nephites  would  have  had 
the  true  order  of  celestial  marriage. 
Thus  the  Quiche  Maya  Indians  of 
Guatemala,  being  descendants  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  peoples,  have  pre- 
served in  their  system  of  marriage  cer- 
tain things  which  hold  a  resemblance 
to  the  true  order  of  marriage  as  given 
by  the  Lord  to  the  Nephites. 

Mr.  Juarez  continued  his  description 
of  the  Quiche  Maya  custom  of  marriage 
by  describing  the  other  type  of  mar- 
riage in  a  rather  interesting  terminology. 
He  said: 

"The  other  kind  of  marriage  our  peo- 


52 

Saturday,  April  7 

pie  call  the  renegade  marriage.  Those 
who  receive  this  kind  of  marriage  are 
the  people  that  the  priests  will  not 
marry  because  they  are  not  good  people. 
They  do  not  live  in  accordance  with 
the  teachings  of  the  Quiche  Maya  re- 
ligion." 

Then  he  explained  why  they  were 
not  good  people,  pointing  out  that  their 
lives  were  opposite  to  the  lives  of  the 
people  who  were  married  by  the  priests 
for  this  life  and  for  the  world  to  come. 
He  said: 

"These  people  who  receive  the  rene- 
gade marriage  get  drunk.  They  are  not 
honest.  They  are  immoral,  and  they 
are  not  people  of  good  integrity.  Their 
marriages  last  only  until  death.  They 
are  not  married  for  the  world  to  come." 

Mr.  Juarez  also  described  to  us  the  var- 
ious orders  of  the  Quiche  Maya  priest- 
hood. He  stated  that  the  priests  were 
selected  from  among  the  spiritual- 
minded  or  psychic  boys  just  as  they 
merged  into  adolescence;  and  then  he 
explained  how  these  boys  were  trained 
for  their  appointments  as  priests.  He 
also  described  to  us  the  Quiche  Mayas' 
system  of  baptism  and  the  various  other 
rites  in  their  religion,  as  well  as  the 
tradition  of  their  origin. 

As  you  probably  already  know,  the 
Quiche  Mayas  have  a  tradition  that 
they  are  descendants  of  Abraham  and 
Jacob,  being  of  the  house  of  Israel.  Their 
traditions  maintain  that  their  ancestors 
came  from  over  the  sea  and  that  they 
were  brought  to  America  by  the  Lord, 
being  led  by  a  prophet  of  God.  They 
also  maintain  that  that  prophet  had  a 
peculiar  instrument  which  guided  them 
here  which  instrument  operated  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  faith  of  the  people. 
Certainly  one  readily  recognizes  that 
instrument  as  being  the  Liahona,  which 
is  described  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
(Alma  37:38.)  All  of  the  foregoing 
claims  made  by  the  Quiche  Maya  In- 
dians are  recorded  in  their  early  writ- 
ings, and  of  course  they  correlate  quite 
closely  with  the  account  given  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon. 

The  following  day  after  interviewing 
Mr.  Juarez  at  Totonicapan,  the  mission 
president,  his  wife,  some  missionaries, 
and  I  drove  to  Chichicastenango,  Guate- 
mala, for  the  purpose  of  attending  a 
Quiche  Maya  religious  service.  At  eight 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

o'clock  in  the  morning  in  the  St.  Tomas 
Cathedral,  erected  for  the  Indians  by 
the  Catholic  Church,  the  Catholic  priest 
conducted  mass  for  the  Indians,  it  being 
a  Catholic  religious  service. 

As  soon  as  the  Catholic  mass  ended, 
the  Indians  conducted  their  own  re- 
ligious services,  which  in  general  were 
definitely  pagan  but  in  which  I  could 
also  readily  recognize  some  factors 
which  evidently  had  their  origin  in  Book 
of  Mormon  days. 

I  was  intensely  interested  to  see 
twelve  Quiche  Maya  men  on  the  stand 
at  the  front  of  the  cathedral  presiding 
over  the  Indian  services.  I  asked  a 
young  Quiche  Maya  man  who  was 
serving  as  our  guide  who  those  twelve 
men  were.   He  replied: 

"They  are  the  twelve  high  priests  who 
are  in  charge  of  the  Quiche  Maya  re- 
ligion." 

I  then  asked,  "Why  twelve?" 

The  answer  I  received  was:  "Custom, 
tradition!"  And  then  the  guide  ex- 
plained that  the  twelve  men  were  the 
best  men  that  could  be  found  among 
his  people.  He  said  that  they  were  se- 
lected to  be  head  over  the  church  be- 
cause of  their  good  characters,  because 
of  their  abilities  of  leadership,  and  be- 
cause of  various  other  good  qualifica- 
tions which  he  enumerated. 

This  young  man  who  was  serving  as 
our  interpreter  could  speak  English  flu- 
ently as  well  as  Spanish  and  Quiche. 
He  informed  us  that  he  had  had  very 
little  schooling  and  had  learned  English 
and  Spanish  from  the  tourists.  This  fact 
indicated  to  me  that  he  was  very  in- 
telligent. 

In  a  recent  conversation  with  Presi- 
dent Edgar  Wagner  of  the  Central 
American  Mission,  I  stated  that  it  was 
my  opinion  that  if  his  missionaries  could 
convert  this  Quiche  Maya  guide  and 
several  other  young  men  of  similar 
abilities — young  men  who  could  speak 
Spanish,  English,  and  also  Quiche — 
and  then  if  they  were  called  to  do  mis- 
sionary work  among  the  Quiche  Maya 
people,  they  perhaps  would  make  a 
marvelous  contribution  in  taking  the 
gospel  to  those  people.  Some  of  the 
elders  from  the  United  States  could  be 
assigned  to  serve  as  companions  to  the 
Quiche  Maya  missionaries  for  the  prin- 
cipal purpose  of  giving  them  a  basic 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


53 


understanding  of  the  gospel.  Then 
these  Quiche  missionaries,  who  would 
undoubtedly  be  favorably  received  by 
their  own  people,  could  easily  obtain 
admittance  into  the  homes  of  the  best 
of  the  Quiche  Maya  families,  perhaps 
even  into  the  homes  of  the  twelve  high 
priests  who  preside  over  their  church. 
In  this  way  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
with  special  emphasis  on  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  could  be  taken  to  the  Indians 
who  speak  only  Quiche.  I  believe  that 
these  Indians  would  readily  recognize 
that  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  their 
book,  since  the  traditions  which  they 
hold  so  sacred  fit  so  well  with  the 
teachings  of  that  book. 

At  the  present  time  we  are  not  able 
to  do  missionary  work  with  a  vast  ma- 
jority of  the  Quiche  Maya  Indians  be- 
cause they  do  not  speak  Spanish  or 
English  and  our  missionaries  do  not 
speak  Quiche.  These  Indians  are  a  very 
religious  people,  practising  their  own 
religion  according  to  their  highly  cher- 
ished traditions.  I  believe  the  day  will 
come  when  missionary  work  will  go 
forth  with  much  power  and  success 
among  this  people.  At  that  time  we 
shall  see  results  similar  to  those  which 
we  read  about  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
when  the  sons  of  King  Mosiah  did  such 
phenomenal  work  among  the  Lamanites. 
Eventually  the  day  of  the  Lamanites 
will  come  when  all  of  the  predictions 
regarding  them  made  by  the  holy 
prophets  and  recorded  in  the  Book  of 


Mormon  will  be  fulfilled.  It  is  my 
opinion  that  at  that  time  thousands  and 
thousands  of  the  Quiche  Maya  Indians 
will  join  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  and  will  become  val- 
iant in  the  faith. 

In  closing  I  humbly  ask  God's  choic- 
est blessings  to  come  upon  the  mission- 
aries in  the  Central  American  Mission 
and  also  upon  the  missionary  work 
throughout  the  entire  world.  May  the 
proselyting  program  go  forward  with 
much  force  that  the  honest  in  heart 
may  be  sought  out  quickly.  This  I  ask 
humbly,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with  "Christ  Is 
Risen,"  conducted  by  Sister  Florence 
Jepperson  Madsen.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Grant  G.  Wool- 
ley,  president  of  Lethbridge  Stake,  after 
which  this  Conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 


The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
Chorus  sang  the  selection,  "Christ  Is 
Risen." 

President  Grant  G.  Woolley  of  the 
Lethbridge  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
afternoon,  April  7th,  at  2:00  p.m. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers  of  the  Pioneer,  Salt  Lake  and 
Sugar  House  Regions  and  the  Davis, 
Layton  and  North  Davis  Stakes,  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  who  was 
presiding  and  conducting,  opened  the 
session  with  the  following  introductory 
statement: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  the  benefit  of  those  standing  in 
the  doorways — we  are  pleased  to  an- 
nounce that  overflow  meetings  are  being 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt 
Hall,  and  over  public  address  system; 
by  television  through  arrangement  with 
KSL  over  three  television  stations  in 
Idaho,  and  over  12  radio  stations  in 
Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado,  Nevada,  and 
Arizona.  The  names  of  these  stations 
were  announced  just  a  few  minutes  ago. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 


54 

Saturday,  April  7 

from  the  Pioneer,  Salt  Lake  and  Sugar 
House  Regions,  and  Davis,  Layton,  and 
North  Davis  Stakes  are  with  us  this  af- 
ternoon to  furnish  the  music  for  this, 
the  Fourth  Session.  Sister  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen  is  conducting  and  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Singing  Mothers  favoring  us  with  "The 
Wintry  Day  Descending  to  Its  Close." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Royle  S.  Papworth,  president  of 
Columbia  River  Stake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "The  Wintry  Day  Descending 
to  Its  Close." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Royle  S.  Papworth,  president  of 
the  Columbia  River  Stake. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Royle  S.  Papworth  of  the 
Columbia  River  Stake  just  offered  the 
invocation. 

"O  Savior,  Hear  Me,"  will  now  be 
rendered  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  and  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 
first  speaker  following  the  music. 


Selection  by  the  Singing  Mothers,  "O 
Savior,  Hear  Me." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first 
speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by  Presi- 
dent Joseph  Fielding  Smith. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First  I  should  like  Elder  [Adam  S.] 
Bennion  to  know  that  it  doesn't  take 
a  prophetic  statement  for  one  to 
suffer.  I  have  been  suffering  since  yes- 
terday morning  when  it  was  anticipated 
that  I  should  speak. 

I  desire  to  preface  what  I  have  to 
say  today  by  recognizing  and  paying 
honor  to  our  beloved  President,  David 
O.  McKay,  who  has  rounded  out  fifty 
years  of  devoted  service  as  one  of  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  I 
want  you  to  know  that  it  is  a  great 
privilege  and  blessing  to  be  associated 
with  him  in  the  General  Councils  of 
the  Church.  We  love  him  as  you  love 
him.  It  is  our  privilege  to  feel  the 
strength  of  his  spirit,  the  power  of  his 
personality,  the  strength  of  his  character, 
and  the  inspiration  of  his  soul  as  we  as- 
sociate daily  with  him  in  the  affairs  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

President  McKay  is  the  epitome  of 
saintliness,  for  he  has  incorporated  into 
his  life  the  great  truths  of  the  gospel 
of  our  Lord.  We  all  know  that  the 
gospel  has  a  great  refining  influence  in 
the  lives  of  those  who  accept  it  and  who 
obey  it.  It  is  a  great  blessing  in  our 
Council,  after  a  matter  has  been  taken 


care  of,  to  hear  President  McKay  say: 
"The  will  of  the  Lord  has  been  done." 
My  brethren  and  sisters,  President  Mc- 
Kay has  given  a  long,  faithful,  and  de- 
voted service  to  this  Church  and  its  peo- 
ple. Truly  he  represents  everything  the 
Church  teaches,  and  it  couldn't  fall  to 
an  individual  to  have  a  greater  privilege 
than  to  sit  at  his  feet  and  to  learn  of 
him.  There  is  not  anything  too  unim- 
portant for  him  to  give  his  personal 
attention  and  consideration.  The  Lord 
loves  him  and  is  sustaining  him  by  his 
holy  power.  He  represents  what  we 
look  for  in  a  prophet  of  the  Living  God. 
I  hope  we  will  all  pay  him  honor  on 
this  important  day  in  his  life. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  today 
I  should  like  to  represent  another  voice 
speaking  in  behalf  of  the  Lamanite 
people  and  the  Church's  responsibility 
to  them,  with  the  hope  we  shall  all  be 
encouraged  more  fully  to  support  and 
carry  the  Lamanite  banner  until  these 
people  of  chosen  lineage  realize  every 
privilege  and  blessing  promised  to  them 
by  revelation  and  prophecy. 

While  there  are  many  scriptural  state- 
ments in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that 
support  with  unquestioned  evidence  a 
return  to  them  of  the  true  gospel  of  our 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


55 


Lord  and  the  restoration  of  promised 
blessings  as  members  of  the  house  of 
Israel,  I  shall  refer  to  three  only: 

In  1  Nephi,  15th  chapter,  we  are  in- 
formed by  Nephi  that  in  the  latter  days 
and  many  generations  after  the  Mes- 
siah shall  be  manifested  in  body  unto 
the  children  of  men,  then  shall  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  the  Messiah 
come  unto  the  gentiles,  and  from  the 
gentiles  unto  the  remnant  of  father 
Lehi's  posterity,  who  are  the  American 
Indian  and  his  blood  relations  in  the 
isles  of  the  Pacific. 

"And  at  that  day  shall  the  remnant 
of  our  seed  know,"  continues  Nephi, 
"that  they  are  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
and  that  they  are  the  covenant  people 
of  the  Lord;  and  then  shall  they  know 
and  come  to  the  knowledge  of  their 
forefathers,  and  also  to  the  knowledge 
of  the  gospel  of  their  Redeemer,  which 
was  ministered  unto  their  fathers  by 
him;  wherefore,  they  shall  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  their  Redeemer  and  the 
very  points  of  his  doctrine,  that  they 
may  know  how  to  come  unto  him  and 
be  saved."  (1  Nephi  15:14.) 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  as  I 
speak  of  the  Indians,  I  have  in  mind  all 
elements  of  this  branch  of  the  house  of 
Israel. 

When  the  Savior  visited  the  Nephites 
on  this  continent  following  his  resur- 
rection on  the  Eastern  Hemisphere,  he 
informed  them  that  the  establishment 
of  his  Church  among  the  gentiles  in 
this  land  of  freedom,  the  coming  forth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  its  teach- 
ings to  their  descendants,  was  the  sign 
by  which  they  were  to  recognize  his 
work  among  the  children  of  men.  Then 
he  affirms: 

And  when  these  things  come  to  pass 
that  thy  seed  shall  begin  to  know  these 
things — it  shall  be  a  sign  unto  them,  that 
they  may  know  that  the  work  of  the  Father 
hath  already  commenced  unto  the  fulfilling 
of  the  covenant  which  he  hath  made  unto 
the  people  who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel. 
(3  Nephi  21:7.) 

Mormon,  a  great  prophet  toward  the 
close  of  the  Nephite  history,  speaks  of 
the  loathsome  state  to  which  the  In- 
dian should  fall,  beyond  the  description 
of  that  which  ever  had  been  among  the 
Nephites  or  the  Lamanites,  and  then 
declares  that  after  the  scattering  of  his 


people  by  the  gentiles  and  after  they 
have  suffered  much  affliction  and  tribu- 
lation, then  the  Lord  will  remember 
the  covenant  which  he  made  unto  Abra- 
ham and  to  all  the  house  of  Israel. 

When  the  Lord  brought  forth  the  rec- 
ord of  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  Joseph 
Smith  in  this  dispensation,  he  committed 
to  his  Church  with  that  important  rec- 
ord the  responsibility  of  taking  to  the 
Indian  and  Lamanite  people  the  knowl- 
edge of  their  forefathers  and  the  fulness 
of  the  gospel,  which  record  also  includes 
the  Lord's  promises  to  them  as  a  branch 
of  the  house  of  Israel. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  sec- 
tion 3,  the  Lord,  after  reproving  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  for  the  loss  of 
certain  manuscripts  relating  to  the  first 
part  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  declared: 

Nevertheless,  my  work  shall  go  forth, 
for  inasmuch  as  the  knowledge  of  a  Savior 
has  come  unto  the  world,  through  the 
testimony  of  the  Jews,  even  so  shall  the 
knowledge  of  a  Savior  come  unto  my  peo- 
ple— 

.  .  .  through  the  testimony  of  their 
fathers — 

And  this  testimony  shall  come  to  the 
knowledge  of  the  Lamanites,  and  the 
Lemuelites,  and  the  Ishmaelites,  who  dwin- 
dled in  unbelief  because  of  the  iniquity  of 
their  fathers,  whom  the  Lord  has  suffered 
to  destroy  their  brethren  the  Nephites,  be- 
cause of  their  iniquities  and  their  abomina- 
tions. 

And  for  this  very  purpose  are  these  plates 
preserved,  which  contain  these  records — that 
the  promises  of  the  Lord  might  be  fulfilled, 
which  he  made  to  his  people; 

And  that  the  Lamanites  might  come  to 
the  knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  that 
they  might  know  the  promises  of  the  Lord, 
and  that  they  may  believe  the  gospel  and 
rely  upon  the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
be  glorified  through  faith  in  his  name,  and 
that  through  their  repentance  they  might 
be  saved.  (D  &  C  3:16-20.) 

Very  shortly  after  this  revelation  was 
given,  the  Lord  gave  another  revelation 
that  instructed  the  Prophet  to  open  the 
work  among  the  Lamanites,  as  we  learn 
in  reading  section  28  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  wherein  Oliver  Cowdery 
was  called  as  the  first  missionary  to  the 
Indians  from  the  newly  restored  Church. 
The  assignment  reads: 

And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that 
you  shall  go  unto  the  Lamanites  and  preach 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

my  gospel  unto  them;  and  inasmuch  as  they 
receive  thy  teachings  thou  shalt  cause  my 
church  to  be  established  among  them;  .  .  . 
(Ibid.,  28:8.) 

Three  others  were  later  appointed  by 
revelation  to  accompany  Oliver  Cowdery 
on  this  first  mission  to  the  Indian  peo- 
ple. 

[President  Brigham  Young  gave  much 
prayerful  thought  and  attention  to  pro- 
moting the  gospel  among  the  Indians 
and  in  establishing  friendly  relations 
between  them  and  the  Saints.] 

President  John  Taylor  was  greatly 
concerned  about  an  active  Lamanite 
program,  for  he  declared: 

The  work  of  the  Lord  among  the  La- 
manites  must  not  be  postponed,  if  we  de- 
sire to  retain  the  approval  of  God.  Thus 
far  we  have  been  content  simply  to  baptize 
them  and  let  them  run  wild  again,  but 
this  must  continue  no  longer;  the  same 
devoted  effort,  the  same  care  in  instructing, 
the  same  organization  of  priesthood  must 
be  introduced  and  maintained  among  the 
house  of  Lehi  as  amongst  those  of  Israel 
gathered  from  gentile  nations.  As  yet,  God 
has  been  doing  all,  and  we  comparatively 
nothing.  He  has  led  many  of  them  to 
us,  and  they  have  been  baptized,  and  now 
we  must  instruct  them  further  and  organ- 
ize them  into  churches  with  proper  presi- 
dencies, attach  them  to  our  stakes,  organiza- 
tions, etc.  In  one  word,  treat  them  exactly 
in  these  respects,  as  we  would  and  do  treat 
our  white  brethren.  (The  Gospel  Kingdom, 
p.  247.) 

President  Wilford  Woodruff  stated: 

I  am  satisfied  that,  although  we  have 
done  a  little  for  the  Lamanites,  we  have 
got  to  do  a  great  deal  more.  (The  Discourses 
of  Wilford  Woodruff,  p.  296.) 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  in  re- 
inaugurating  work  among  the  Indians 
during  his  administration,  strongly  em- 
phasized the  importance  of  the  Church 
mission  to  the  Indians  in  these  simple 
yet  dynamic  words: 

"The  day  is  here  for  the  gospel  to  go 
to  the  Lamanites,  and  we  must  never 
fail  them  again." 

This  was  later  reaffirmed  by  President 
David  O.  McKay  when  he  emphatically 
declared:  "God  would  hold  us  account- 
able if  we  failed." 

These  statements  make  unmistakably 
clear  what  our  duty  is  to  the  Indian 
people.    Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 


Second  Day 

we  should  not  deny  to  them  longer  their 
full  rights  and  opportunities  for  bless- 
ings. We  must  always  remember,  we 
only  have  the  authentic  record  which 
furnishes  the  true  origin  of  the  Amer- 
ican Indians,  their  history  and  God's 
work  and  gospel  teachings  among  them. 
Great  are  the  promises  of  the  Lord  unto 
the  Indians,  which  spiritual  blessings 
this  people  alone  hold  the  keys,  rights, 
and  powers  to  grant  and  bestow  upon 
them. 

In  a  sense  I  do  not  feel  sorry  for  the 
Indian  people  because  they  are  chil- 
dren of  promise,  belonging  as  they  do  to 
the  house  of  Israel  and  are  the  pos- 
terity of  Abraham,  the  father  of  the 
faithful,  through  whose  lineage  the  Lord 
promised  that  all  nations  of  the  earth 
are  to  be  blessed;  therefore,  they  are  a 
chosen  race  and  people  unto  God,  pos- 
sessing a  divine  and  royal  heritage. 
However,  I  do  feel  sorry  about  the  lack 
of  privileges,  denial  of  citizenship  rights, 
and  insufficient  opportunities  for  school- 
ing and  culture  which  continue  to 
shroud  them  in  darkness  and  despair. 
There  are  too  many  of  them  in  our 
modern  day,  living  under  most  primi- 
tive conditions  and  circumstances  which 
destroy  faith,  initiative,  ambition,  and 
confidence.  That  it  required  hundreds 
of  years  for  the  Indians  to  reach  their 
low  state  of  degeneracy  does  not  al- 
low the  Church  or  the  nation  unlimited 
time  to  return  them  to  the  high  civiliza- 
tion and  spiritual  activation  they  once 
enjoyed  nor  the  opportunities  and 
blessings  of  our  present  enlightened  era 
of  scientific  knowledge,  productive 
achievement  and  culture. 

Our  apparent  insufficient  interest  and 
somewhat  unsatisfactory  follow-up  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith's  taking  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  the  gospel  to  the  In- 
dian as  well  as  partial  failure  to  heed 
the  counsel  of  all  presidents  of  the 
Church  in  relation  to  this  program,  is 
an  indictment  against  us  and  represents 
a  challenge  and  an  obligation  we  can- 
not afford  longer  to  ignore. 

It  is  unfortunate  that  we  have  per- 
mitted others  to  indoctrinate  them  to 
different  ways  of  life  than  that  of  their 
fathers  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. Our  efforts  over  the  years  have 
not  been  sustained,  but  intermittent, 
and  each  stoppage  of  activity  causes  us 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


57 


to  lose  ground  and  permits  others  to 
become  more  firmly  entrenched,  creat- 
ing a  serious  proselyting  problem  which 
could  in  large  measure  have  been 
avoided.  The  Indians  themselves  have 
chided  the  missionaries  about  such  con- 
ditions and  occurrences. 

Without  question  in  my  mind,  we 
must  fulfil  completely  the  Church  duty 
to  the  Indian  and  thus  lay  suitable 
plans  to  prevent  any  future  departure 
from  a  chosen  course  of  intense  mission- 
ary activity  among  them.  We  truly 
cannot  afford  to  neglect  them  again.  If 
called  to  an  accounting  by  the  Lord, 
could  we  vindicate  the  apparent  indif- 
ference towards  them?  The  Lord  has 
counseled  that  we  are  not  to  be  com- 
manded in  all  things  and  he  that  doeth 
not  anything  until  he  is  commanded 
and  receiveth  a  commandment  with 
doubtful  heart  and  keepeth  it  with  sloth- 
fulness,  the  same  is  damned.  (See  D  & 
C  58:26.)  The  revelations  make  clear 
the  Church  path  of  duty.  What  addi- 
tional direction  is  needed  to  awaken  us 
to  the  importance  of  this  God-given 
task? 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  the  Indian 
cause  and  program  is  not  a  dead  issue 
in  the  Church  today  but  continues  a 
constant  challenge  and  duty.  We  must 
regain  through  devoted  service  to  the 
Indian  God's  approval  and  blessing 
upon  this  most  important  assignment. 

In  my  judgment,  to  be  successful  the 
Indian  program  must  become  a  full 
Church  effort  that  involves  every  per- 
son and  organization.  We  should  also 
encourage  government  bodies  to  study 
more  thoroughly  Indian  problems,  give 
them  increasing  local  autonomy  and 
furnish  the  type  and  quality  of  leader- 
ship and  help  to  elevate  the  Indian 
to  his  rightful  place  of  ultimate  full 
citizenship  with  opportunity  to  enjoy 
every  educational  and  work  advantage 
that  will  make  him  independent  and 
self-sustaining.  Because  the  first  in- 
habitants and  rightful  citizens  of  our 
great  country  are  in  a  minority  group 
does  not  justify  indifference  to  their 
cause,  nor  should  they  be  ignored  by 
the  strong  political  parties  of  our  na- 
tion. The  government,  having  subju- 
gated and  taken  possession  of  their 
lands  and  made  them  wards  of  the 
government,  places  upon  this  nation 


and  people  a  debt  and  obligation  that 
should  be  fully  and  honestly  met  to 
permit  them  in  proper  time  to  enjoy 
full  rights  and  benefits  of  citizen- 
ship with  economic  and  social  privileges 
and  proper  home  life  in  the  society  of 
American  peoples. 

Perhaps  too  thoughtlessly  we  consider 
the  Book  of  Mormon  as  belonging  to  us 
exclusively,  overlooking  the  source  of  its 
divine  preparation,  also  the  descendants 
of  the  people  to  whom  the  record  was 
originally  given.  We  hold  it  in  sacred 
trust  for  the  American  Indian  as  well 
as  for  our  own  use.  The  Book  of  Mor- 
mon record  has  for  the  American  In- 
dian a  familiar  voice  speaking  as  it 
does  from  the  dust,  of  their  ancestors. 

We  must  rely  on  stake  and  full-time 
mission  leadership  and  missionaries, 
priesthood  quorums,  also  the  Church 
auxiliaries,  to  carry  forward  this  im- 
portant work.  I  cannot  promise  you 
that  it  will  be  an  easy  task.  It  will  be 
full  of  discouragements  and  will  require 
years  to  attain  reasonable  progress,  but 
when  accomplished,  think  of  the  marvel- 
ous blessings  and  satisfactions  we  as  a 
people  can  experience  for  bringing  a 
backward  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel 
to  a  knowledge  of  truth  and  of  their 
God.  The  problems  and  handicaps  that 
now  exist  in  working  among  the  In- 
dians cause  an  assignment  to  be  dis- 
tasteful to  some,  and  because  the  results 
often  are  disappointing  and  quite  un- 
productive, tend  to  frighten  many  away 
who  are  considered  for  missionary  serv- 
ice among  them.  Perhaps  they  are 
fearful  of  what  they  might  find  and 
revolt  against  the  idea  of  working  and 
associating  with  these  people  who  live 
under  such  humble  circumstances  and 
for  the  most  part  are  without  modern 
facilities  that  we  accept  as  a  part  of 
our  daily  living.  The  Lord  taught  that 
to  eat  with  unwashed  hands  did  not 
defile  a  man,  but  those  things  which 
proceed  out  of  the  mouth  and  come 
forth  from  the  heart,  they  defile  the 
man.  (See  Matthew  15:18-20.) 

We  should  take  seriously  these  words 
of  Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi: 

Wherefore,  a  commandment  I  give  unto 
you,  which  is  the  word  of  God,  that  ye 
revile  no  more  against  them  because  of 
the  darkness  of  their  skins;  .  .  .  (Jacob  3:9.) 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

Why  do  we  as  a  people  hesitate,  my 
brothers  and  sisters,  to  pursue  fully  the 
work  God  has  assigned  us  to  do  by 
revelation?  How  can  the  Indians  be 
encouraged  to  a  full  life  of  opportunity, 
joy,  and  happiness  without  our  help? 
As  we  meditate  this  challenge,  we 
should  remember  the  example  of  the 
Christ  who  humbly  and  graciously 
washed  the  feet  of  his  disciples  to  teach 
them  the  lesson  of  humility  in  his 
service. 

Calling  to  mind  the  vision  and  lesson 
given  to  the  Apostle  Peter,  who  at  first 
resisted  taking  the  gospel  to  the  gen- 
tiles, "We  cannot  call  that  common  or 
unclean  which  God  has  cleansed."  (See 
Acts  10:15.)  Does  not  that  same  coun- 
sel apply  to  us  today,  now  that  the  time 
has  arrived  for  the  Indian  to  receive  the 
fulness  of  the  gospel  of  our  Lord?  I 
am  firmly  convinced  the  Lord  in  his 
own  way  is  preparing  the  Indian  peo- 
ple to  receive  the  message  of  the  re- 
stored gospel,  but  we  must  willingly 
cooperate  with  him  in  this  program 
according  to  the  important  assignment 
given  to  the  Church. 

Now  we  should  resolve,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  to  never  give  up  in  this  pro- 
gram regardless  of  disappointments  and 
discouragements,  but  fulfil  in  a  pleas- 
ing way  to  the  Lord  our  duty  to  the 
Indian  people  with  patience,  love,  and 
kindness.  Also,  we  must  faithfully  keep 
all  promises  made  to  them,  and  by  real 
sustained  interest  and  never  failing  them 
again  build  confidence  through  our  ef- 


Seeond  Day 

forts  to  serve  and  thus  create  a  desire 
within  them  for  the  gospel  and  kingdom 
of  our  Lord. 

I  do  not  want  you  to  get  the  idea 
from  this  talk  that  the  Church  does  not 
have  an  Indian  program  and  is  not 
making  some  progress  in  this  field  of 
service,  because  we  are,  but  we  must 
step  up  our  efforts,  increase  effective- 
ness of  the  work,  and  accomplish  much 
more  than  we  are  now  doing  to  fully 
bless  these  people  and  to  please  the 
Lord,  our  God. 

I  recognize  and  express  appreciation 
to  those  of  our  brothers  and  sisters  who 
have  given  and  are  giving  such  faithful 
and  devoted  service  to  the  peoples  of 
Lamanite  origin.  I  pray  that  the  choice 
blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father  will 
be  upon  this  branch  of  the  house  of 
Israel,  that  our  efforts  among  them  will 
never  diminish  but  will  continue  to 
increase  in  order  that  they  may  enjoy 
the  blessings  that  God  has  promised 
to  them,  which  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

That  earnest  appeal  for  the  Lamanites 
to  which  we  have  just  listened  was 
given  by  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  President 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  president  of  the 
Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Henry  D.  Moyle. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  We  are 
here  assembled,  as  we  assemble  at 
every  conference,  for  the  purpose 
of  being  instructed,  built  up,  and  en- 
couraged so  that  when  we  return  to  our 
homes,  we  will  be  able  to  teach  our 
people  and  keep  them  in  the  path  of 
truth.  We  may  even  be  admonished, 
if  that  is  necessary. 

This  afternoon  I  wish  to  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  to 
the  mission  of  our  Redeemer,  to  the  call 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the 
establishment  of  this  work  in  the  dis- 


pensation in  which  we  live,  known  as 
the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times.  I  know  absolutely  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  only  Begotten  Son  of  God, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Savior 
of  men  insofar  as  they  will  repent  of 
their  sins  and  accept  the  gospel.  Through 
his  death  he  redeemed  all  men  and  took 
upon  him  that  sacrifice  which  would 
relieve  us  of  our  sins  that  we  may  not 
answer  for  them  if  we  will  accept  him 
and  be  true  and  faithful  to  his  teachings. 

I  am  just  as  fully  satisfied,  because  I 
know,  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  ap- 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


59 


peared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  revealed  to 
him  the  great  truth  which  had  been 
lost  because  of  the  wickedness  of  the 
world;  that  they  are  separate  distinct 
Personages;  that  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
together  with  the  Holy  Ghost,  constitute 
the  Godhead,  the  great  ruling  power  of 
the  universe;  that  Jesus  Christ  volun- 
teered to  come  into  this  world  to  redeem 
it;  that  John  the  Baptist  came  to  the 
Prophet,  as  did  Moroni  before  him,  and 
Peter,  James,  and  John  later,  to  give 
authority  and  to  usher  in  the  kingdom 
of  God  anew  in  this  dispensation  in 
which  we  live,  because  men  had  turned 
away  from  the  truth.  Through  darkness 
which  covered  the  earth  they  had  lost 
the  knowledge  of  God;  they  had  trans- 
gressed the  laws  and  changed  the  ordi- 
nances; and  instead  of  teaching  the  sim- 
ple truths  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
they  taught  the  commandments  of  men 
just  as  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  declared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  am  grateful  for  my  membership  in 
this  Church,  for  the  opportunity  that 
has  been  mine  to  serve.  My  desire  is 
to  prove  true  and  faithful  to  the  end.  I 
realize  that  this  is  the  Dispensation  of 
the  Fulness  of  Times;  that  we  live  in 
perilous  days;  that  men's  hearts  are  fail- 
ing; that  contention  prevails;  nations 
stand  in  opposition  to  nations;  and  there 
is  no  peace. 


I  realize,  because  I  discover  it,  that 
there  is  commotion  not  only  among  men, 
but  also  in  the  elements  pertaining  to 
this  earth;  that  they  too  are  becoming 
angry.  The  judgments  of  the  Almighty 
are  being  poured  out  upon  the  inhabit- 
ants of  the  earth  by  earthquakes,  by 
flood,  by  famine  and  pestilence,  and  in 
many  other  ways,  and  all  of  these  are 
signs  that  have  been  given  by  our  Lord 

Jesus  Christ  to  convince  men  upon  the 
ace  of  the  earth  that  his  coming  is  near, 
even  at  our  doors. 

When  you  return  to  your  homes,  teach 
the  people.  Call  upon  them  to  repent 
wherein  they  need  to  repent,  to  get  on 
their  knees  before  the  Lord,  to  remem- 
ber their  covenants,  and  their  obligations 
to  keep  them,  and  to  walk  faithfully 
and  humbly  in  the  sight  of  their  Eternal 
Father. 

That  is  one  of  the  most  important 
missions  that  we  have.  Let  us  carry  it 
out,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  heard  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  president  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
address  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  El- 
der Alma  Sonne. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I,  like  Elder  Stapley,  have  had  in 
mind  calling  to  your  attention  at  least, 
a  part  of  the  great  service  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  has  rendered  the 
Church  and  his  Maker  during  the  last 
fifty  years,  and  particularly  that  service 
which  has  been  rendered  during  the 
last  twenty  years  since  the  establish- 
ment of  the  great  Church  welfare  pro- 
gram came  about. 

When  the  Lord  speaks  through  his 
servants,  as  he  did  in  1936,  there  is  no 
room  left  for  any  doubt  in  the  minds 
of  true  Latter-day  Saints.  We  believe 
in  the  words  of  Amos  which  have  been 
quoted  here  before  today,  that 

Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing, 


but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto  his  servants 
the  prophets.  (Amos  3:7.) 

In  this  respect  we  reaffirm  our  ninth 
article  of  faith: 

We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all 
that  he  does  now  reveal,  and  we  believe 
that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and 
important  things  pertaining  to  the  King- 
dom of  God. 

There  is  a  story  that  has  oft  been  told 
by  President  McKay,  particularly  during 
the  early  days  of  the  welfare  program, 
that  I  should  like  to  repeat.  It  is  the 
story  of  an  engineer  who  pulled  his  train 
into  a  station  one  dark  and  stormy 
night,  and  while  the  engineer  was  going 


60 

Saturday,  April  7 

calmly  about  oiling  his  engine,  getting 
ready  for  the  next  run,  a  timid  passenger 
from  the  coach  came  up  to  him  and 
asked  him  if  he  were  not  afraid  of  going 
out  into  the  dark.  Without  looking  up 
the  engineer  said,  "I'm  not  pulling  my 
train  out  into  the  dark  tonight."  "Oh, 
I  beg  your  pardon,  I  thought  you  were 
going  to  be  our  engineer,"  said  the  man. 
"I  am,  but  I  won't  be  in  the  dark  to- 
night." He  said,  "Why,  I  should  think 
you  would  be  very  nervous  with  the 
lives  of  all  these  men  and  women  on 
this  train  depending  upon  you."  For 
an  answer  the  engineer  pointed  up  to 
the  headlight  that  threw  an  intense 
white  light  several  hundred  yards 
ahead  on  the  track  and  said,  "When  I 
pull  out  of  this  station  tonight  I  am 
going  to  run  just  to  the  edge  of  that 
light,  and  when  I  get  there,  that  light 
will  be  extended  several  hundred  yards 
ahead,  and  I  shall  run  to  the  end  of 
that  light  and  so  on  throughout  the 
night.  I'll  be  running  in  the  light  all 
the  way."  And  the  man  replied, 
"Thanks  for  the  lesson,  faithful  engi- 
neer." 

President  McKay  continued:  "I  can 
say  this  to  you:  The  first  circle  of  light 
we  have  seen  is  October  1st,  1936,  when 
by  that  date  we  shall  see  to  it  that  we 
have  sufficient  food,  fuel,  clothing,  etc., 
to  see  every  needy  family  through  this 
coming  winter,  and  by  the  time  we  get 
to  October  1st,  the  light  will  have  ex- 
tended sufficiently  far  to  permit  us  to 
see  the  next  move  we  should  make.  I 
can  promise  you  one  thing,  that  we'll  be 
running  in  the  light  all  the  way  through 
this  dark  night." 

No  more  prophetic  utterances,  I  am 
sure,  could  have  been  made  at  that  time. 
And  it  is  my  privilege  today  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  fact  that  that  prophetic 
statement  has  been  fulfilled,  and  that 
ever  since  then  we  have  been  running 
in  the  light,  and  the  story,  of  course,  is 
not  yet  told  but  will  yet  reveal  a  great 
work  of  inspiration  and  of  progress. 

When  we  sing,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet"  it  has  a  meaning 
to  Latter-day  Saints;  it  has  a  meaning 
to  welfare  workers  throughout  the 
Church.  Our  presence  here  today  indi- 
cates how  happy  and  how  grateful  we 
are  to  live  in  a  day  and  age  when  a 
prophet  of  God  is  in  our  midst.  We 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

know  that  we  are  not  left  alone  to  our 
own  judgment  or  the  devices  of  men. 

Those  who  have  been  helped  by  the 
program  during  the  last  twenty  years 
are  naturally  grateful  for  the  program  of 
the  Church,  for  the  generosity  of  the 
Saints,  and  for  the  inspiration  of  the 
brethren  who  preside  over  them,  but 
the  interesting  fact  is  that  those  who 
have  been  called  to  labor  and  to  give 
and  to  sacrifice  and  to  carry  out  this 
great  work,  are  also  extremely  grateful. 
They  are  grateful  for  the  opportunity 
that  they  have  had  to  serve  their  fel- 
low men.  They  know  the  truthfulness 
of  the  words  that  "it  is  more  blessed 
to  give  than  to  receive."  They  have 
cause  every  day  of  their  lives  to  thank 
the  Lord  for  the  privilege  which  has 
been  theirs  of  carrying  on  this  inspired 
work.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  this  is  the 
spirit  of  welfare  work.  It  has  insured 
its  success  from  the  beginning,  and  it 
will  continue  with  us  to  carry  on  in 
the  future. 

I  know  of  nothing  more  faith-promot- 
ing in  the  Church  than  to  be  asso- 
ciated with  the  welfare  program  and  to 
participate  in  its  activities.  Back  of  it 
all  has  been  the  faithfulness  and  the 
devotion  of  the  people  of  the  Church. 
I  do  not  want  to  deal  in  superlatives  to- 
day, but  I  am  sure  that  no  credit  would 
be  too  great  for  the  membership  of  the 
Church  who  have  met  every  emergency 
and  have  provided  for  every  need  which 
has  made  itself  known  since  this  great 
program  was  initiated.  The  people  have 
not  failed.  They  are  not  failing  now. 
Their  efforts  are  keeping  pace  with  the 
needs  of  their  brethren.  Both  have 
necessarily  expanded  as  our  problems 
have  arisen. 

Whereas  twenty  years  ago  we  only 
had  115  stakes,  we  now  have  227.  Not 
alone  has  there  been  an  increase  in 
numbers,  but  our  society  has  become 
more  complex.  I  mean  by  that,  of 
course,  the  society  in  which  we  live. 
So  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned,  our 
society  should  be  kept  as  simple  as 
ever.  Now  in  the  world  there  are  many 
limitations  imposed  upon  our  freedom 
of  action,  individually  and  collectively, 
many  restraints  upon  us  in  government 
and  industry,  and  in  all  our  activities 
of  life  we  are  circumscribed,  of  neces- 
sity.   Many  of  these  influences  are  in- 


ELDER  HENi 

sidious  in  their  nature,  some  of  which 
we  are  not  aware  of  until  we  are  struck 
with  the  full  force  and  effect  thereof, 
and  often  then  we  are  left  helpless  if 
we  stand  alone. 

I  have  long  since  been  satisfied  in  my 
own  mind  that  the  commencement  of 
our  intensive  collective  effort  to  meet 
these  problems  was  timed  of  the  Lord. 
Had  it  not  been  for  the  inspiration  of 
the  Almighty,  President  Grant  and  his 
Counselors  would  not  have  foreseen  as 
they  did  the  future  requirements  to  meet 
the  changing  conditions  in  the  world 
in  which  we  live.  Their  prophetic  fore- 
sight made  it  possible  for  the  people 
to  anticipate  and  prepare  for  the  future. 
They  also  gave  us  the  plan  under  which 
we  have  operated.  Up  to  this  time, 
April  1936,  most  of  our  welfare  cases 
were  handled  by  the  bishop,  individual- 
ly. He  stood,  as  it  were,  alone  out  in 
the  world,  with  his  own  resources  pretty 
much,  and  the  result  was  that  he  was 
not  capable,  standing  alone,  of  meeting 
these  intricate  problems  as  they  arose 
in  our  new  society.  With  the  advent 
of  the  program  designed  to  meet  our 
present  complex  problems,  all  the  bish- 
ops of  the  Church  were  united  in  a 
way  that  each  might  share  with  the 
other,  and  all  profit  by  the  experiences 
gained  throughout  the  Church. 

But  this  change  in  the  program  from 
the  individual  bishop  to  the  welfare 
program  did  not  in  any  wise  change 
the  principle  or  the  practice  upon  which 
our  care  for  the  poor  was  based.  It 
still  remains  the  work  of  the  individual 
bishop  to  take  care  of  his  own.  Thus 
we  continue  to  carry  out  in  the  welfare 
program  the  mandate  of  the  Lord  given 
to  us  in  the  establishment  of  his  Church 
and  kingdom  here  in  these  latter  days, 
just  as  it  was  imposed  upon  the  people 
of  prior  dispensations. 

What  happened  in  the  primitive 
church?  The  same  practice  of  taking 
care  of  the  poor  and  the  needy,  no  doubt 
in  a  greater  degree  of  perfection  than 
now,  for  we  are  told: 

...  all  that  believed  were  together,  and 
had  all  things  common; 

And  sold  their  possessions  and  goods,  and 
parted  them  to  all  men,  as  every  man  had 
need.  (Acts  2:44-45.) 

And  the  multitude  of  them  that  believed 
were  of  one  heart  and  of  one  soul:  neither 


Y  D.  MOYLE  61 

said  any  of  them  that  ought  of  the  things 
which  he  possessed  was  his  own;  but  they 
had  all  things  common.  .  .  . 

Neither  was  there  any  among  them  that 
lacked.  .  .  .  (Acts  4:32,  34.) 

You  know,  King  Benjamin,  in  speak- 
ing of  those  who  would  not  assist  the 
poor,  would  not  succor  the  needy,  said, 

.  .  .  O  man,  whosoever  doeth  this  the 
same  hath  great  cause  to  repent;  and  ex- 
cept he  repenteth  of  that  which  he  hath 
done  he  perisheth  forever,  and  hath  no 
interest  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  (Mosiah 
4:18.) 

And  Amulek,  speaking  on  the  same 
subject,  said: 

".  .  .  behold,  your  prayer  is  vain,  and 
availeth  you  nothing,  and  ye  are  as 
hypocrites  who  do  deny  the  faith," 
(Alma  34:28)  when  we  do  not  take  care 
of  the  poor  and  the  needy. 

And  in  the  opening  of  this  dispensa- 
tion, the  Lord  said  unto  us  through  his 
Prophet,  Joseph  Smith: 

Behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye  must 
visit  the  poor  and  the  needy  and  administer 
to  their  relief,  ...  (D  &  C  44:6.) 

And  remember  in  all  things  the  poor  and 
the  needy,  the  sick  and  the  afflicted,  for  he 
that  doeth  not  these  things,  the  same  is  not 
my  disciple.  (D  &  C  52:40.) 

I  know  of  no  more  eloquent  character- 
ization of  the  welfare  program  than  that 
made  by  President  McKay  on  October 
2,  1936,  after  we  had  had  six  months' 
experience  in  this  work: 

"I  do  not  know  of  any  activity,"  the 
President  said,  "with  which  we  have 
been  associated  which  promises  more 
fruitful  results  in  temporal  and  spiritual 
achievement  than  this  Church  security 
[welfare]  program.  ...  It  is  going  to 
stand  out  in  Church  history  as  signifi- 
cant. .  .  .  Brethren,  I  congratulate  you 
with  all  my  heart.  You  are  not  doing 
it  for  yourselves,  but  for  others  and  for 
the  Lord,  by  providing,  and  contribut- 
ing to  the  progress  and  success  of  the 
Church. 

"The  development  of  our  spiritual 
nature  should  concern  us  most.  Spirit- 
uality is  the  highest  acquisition  of  the 
soul,  the  divine  in  man;  'the  supreme, 
crowning  gift  that  makes  him  king  of 
all  created  things.'  It  is  the  conscious- 
ness of  victory  over  self  and  of  com- 
munion with  the  infinite.    It  is  spirit- 


62 

Saturday,  April  7 

uality  alone  which  really  gives  one  of 
the  best  in  life. 

"Throughout  this  conference  frequent 
reference  has  been  made,  and  appropri- 
ately so,  to  the  plan  inaugurated  by  the 
General  Authorities  of  the  Church  for 
the  relief  of  those  who  are  unemployed. 
It  is  at  present  one  of  our  greatest,  and 
one  of  the  most  important  concerns  of 
the  Church.  During  the  few  minutes 
allotted  to  me  I  desire  to  call  attention 
to  the  spiritual  value  of  this  important 
and  far-reaching  undertaking. 

"In  the  29th  Section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  we  are  told  that  all 
things  unto  the  Lord  are  spiritual,  'and 
not  at  any  time  have  I  given  unto  you 
a  law  which  was  temporal;  neither  any 
man,  nor  the  children  of  men;  neither 
Adam,  your  father,  whom  I  created. 

"Behold,  I  gave  unto  him  that  he 
should  be  an  agent  unto  himself;  and  I 
gave  unto  him  commandment,  but  no 
temporal  commandment  gave  I  unto 
him,  for  my  commandments  are  spirit- 
ual; they  are  not  natural  nor  temporal, 
neither  carnal  or  sensual.'  (D  &  C 
29:34-35.) 

"It  is  something  to  supply  clothing  to 
the  scantily  clad,  to  furnish  ample  rood 
to  those  whose  table  is  thinly  spread, 
to  give  activity  to  those  who  are  fighting 
desperately  the  despair  that  comes  from 
enforced  idleness,  but  after  all  is  said 
and  done,  the  greatest  blessings  that 
will  accrue  from  the  Church  security 
[welfare]  plan  are  spiritual.  Outward- 
ly, every  act  seems  to  be  directed  to- 
ward the  physical:  re-making  of  dresses 
and  suits  of  clothes,  canning  fruits  and 
vegetables,  storing  foodstuffs,  choosing  of 
fertile  fields  for  settlement — all  seem 
strictly  temporal,  but  permeating  all 
these  acts,  inspiring  and  sanctifying 
them,  is  the  element  of  spirituality." 

That  is  the  declaration  of  our  beloved 
President  to  us,  and  it  has  been  the 
inspiration  not  alone  for  the  general 
Church  welfare  committee  through  all 
these  years,  but  I  am  sure  also  the  in- 
spiration for  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, who  have  made  this  great  accom- 
plishment possible. 

Historically  important  as  is  the  past, 
our  attention  must  now  be  riveted  upon 
the  present  and  the  future  while  we 
are  still  taking  care  of  our  daily  tasks. 

It  is  of  prime  importance,  of  course, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

that  we  should  have  acquired  the  various 
projects  that  we  have  throughout  the 
Church,  but  it  is  my  humble  judgment 
today  that  it  would  be  better  for  us 
never  to  have  acquired  a  welfare  project 
than  to  fail  to  take  care  of  it  now  that 
we  have  it.  The  Lord  will  not  hold  us 
blameless,  those  of  us  who  lead  in  the 
wards  and  the  stakes  of  the  Church,  if 
we  take  of  the  funds  of  the  people,  those 
sacred  trust  funds,  and  purchase  projects 
and  then  do  not  utilize  those  projects 
as  the  Lord  would  have  us.  So  I  say 
today  that  the  severest  test  is  here  con- 
fronting us  now. 

Now  we  have  never  judged  the  suc- 
cess of  our  welfare  projects  by  their 
earning  power,  by  any  profit  which 
might  accure  therefrom,  nor  have  we 
judged  them  as  they  might  function  in 
time  of  plenty,  where  there  is  no  un- 
employment, where  we  have  been  re- 
quired to  draw  upon  the  busy  people 
of  the  Church  for  the  greatest  contribu- 
tion for  their  maintenance.  We  should 
never  forget  the  fact  that  these  projects 
reach  the  peak  of  their  importance 
when  they  produce  in  time  of  need  that 
which  is  necessary  to  meet  the  emer- 
gency, and  which  at  the  same  time  will 
furnish  to  the  greatest  number  of  men 
and  women  in  periods  of  unemployment 
the  employment  by  which  they  can 
gain  that  which  they  need  for  the  sus- 
tenance of  themselves  and  their  families. 

I  say  to  you  today,  this  welfare  plan 
has  become  a  great  insurance,  not  only 
to  the  people  of  the  Church  but  also 
to  our  neighbors  and  friends  in  the 
world.  And  you  might  ask  me,  of  what 
benefit  is  this  program  to  the  world  and 
particularly  the  communities  in  which 
we  live.  I  say  to  you,  it  is  a  benefit  to 
them  because  we  are  prepared  and  will 
continue  to  be  prepared  to  take  care  of 
our  own  and  thus  relieve  the  public 
load  and  to  give  that  which  the  public 
has  to  those  who  have  not  been  blessed 
by  the  inspiration  and  direction  of  the 
prophet  of  God  who  leads  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in 
these  days. 

I  want  to  say  a  word  in  conclusion 
about  our  tax  situation.  Some  people 
both  within  and  without  the  Church 
seem  to  worry  about  some  welfare 
projects  upon  which  no  state  tax  has 
been  levied.  Let  me  say  to  you  humbly, 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


63 


my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  to  the 
world,  that  we  pay  in  very  deed  a  hun- 
dred percent  of  the  production  of  these 
farm  projects  of  ours  to  the  same  identi- 
cal cause  to  which  much  of  our  taxes 
are  dedicated.  The  gross  production  of 
our  welfare  projects  goes  to  relieve  a  tax 
burden  rather  than  the  small  fraction 
which  would  be  charged  us  were  we 
limited  alone  to  the  tax  that  might  be 
levied  upon  it  if  it  were  not  tax-exempt 
by  law.  I  am  sure  that  the  people  in  the 
Church  and  out  of  the  Church  should 
have  no  worry  about  our  not  meeting 
our  civic  responsibilities.  I  am  sure 
that  we  will  always  be  found  doing 
more  than  our  share  in  the  communi- 
ties in  which  we  live  throughout  the 
world.  Think  of  it,  with  the  great 
number  of  welfare  projects  we  have 
now,  scattered  as  they  are  throughout 
the  United  States  and  Canada,  we  can 
be  assured  that  no  particular  climatic 
condition  or  no  particular  disaster  could 


affect  us  all,  and  that  we  are  in  the 
position  where  when  one  community  is 
hurt  we  can  draw  from  the  other  com- 
munities and  the  other  projects  of  the 
Church  to  assist  them.  With  every 
new  project  we  have  added  insurance 
for  our  future  welfare  and  protection. 

I  hope  and  pray  that  we  may  always 
be  responsive  in  the  future  as  we  have 
been  in  the  past  to  the  great  leadership 
of  President  McKay  and  to  that  in- 
spiration and  direction  which  will  come 
to  him  as  he  continues  to  preside  over 
us  in  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God, 
and  this  I  pray  humbly,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed  us.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Alma  Sonne, 
Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS:  I  want  tO 
say  that  I  endorse  with  all  my  heart 
the  remarks  which  have  been  made 
this  afternoon  by  Elder  Stapley,  Presi- 
dent Smith,  and  Elder  Moyle,  and  I 
join  with  them  in  expressing  my  love 
and  admiration  for  President  David  O. 
McKay,  who  has  given  this  Church  fifty 
years  of  unselfish  service.  I  remember 
him  for  almost  that  number  of  years. 
During  all  of  that  time  he  has  traveled 
through  the  nations  of  the  earth  repre- 
senting this  Church,  explaining  the  gos- 
pel principles,  and  bearing  his  testimony 
to  the  divinity  of  this  great  work 

I  had  a  friend  once  who  was  educated 
along  literary  lines.  He  told  me  one 
day  that  the  finest  sentence  in  all  litera- 
ture is  in  the  Bible.  When  I  asked  him 
to  repeat  it  he  said,  "God  said,  Let  there 
be  light:  and  there  was  light."  (Gen. 
1:3.)  I  suppose  from  the  standpoint  of 
beauty  and  majesty  that  sentence  has  no 
parallel,  and  yet  I  thought  of  another 
sentence,  a  sentence  of  only  three  words, 
spoken  by  the  angel  on  the  morning  of 
the  resurrection.  The  angel  said,  "He  is 
risen."  (Mark  16:6.)   I  believe  that  was 


the  most  important  announcement  ever 
made  to  the  world. 

I  rejoice  in  the  stability  of  this  Church, 
in  the  soundness  of  its  doctrines,  and  I 
am  very  happy  that  all  of  those  doctrines 
are  in  agreement  with  the  Holy  Bible. 

I  read  a  book  the  other  night  which 
suggested  that  the  stories  of  the  resur- 
rection, and  the  stories  of  the  miracles 
performed  by  Jesus  originated  during  a 
period  of  myth  making.  I  confess  that 
I  am  somewhat  annoyed  when  a  sup- 
posed leader  of  a  Christian  church  will 
make  a  statement  like  that.  Strip  the 
Christian  religion  of  the  doctrine  of  the 
resurrection,  and  you  lose  its  motivating 
power,  as  was  stated  so  well  by  Presi- 
dent McKay  the  other  day.  There  is  no 
doctrine  which  received  more  atten- 
tion of  Christ's  twelve  apostles,  whom 
he  sent  into  the  world,  than  the 
resurrection.  To  deny  it  is  to  be  ruled 
entirely  by  skepticism  and  unbelief. 
Mankind  needs  to  have  a  conviction 
concerning  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord 
Jesus. 

There  are  those  who  have  relied  en- 
tirely on  their  finite  understanding  and 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

their  human  vision  which,  to  say  the 
least,  is  darkened  "by  the  shadows  of 
earth."  The  human  soul  needs  an 
anchorage.  Man  cannot  live  by  bread 
alone.  Mankind  needs  a  vindication 
against  the  tyranny  of  death  and  against 
the  ravages  of  time  and  decay.  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  prophets  have  supplied 
that  vindication.  The  Savior  supplied 
it  when,  in  the  throes  of  agony  and 
death,  he  said  to  the  felon  on  the  cross: 
"To  day  shalt  thou  be  with  me  in  para- 
dise"; (Luke  23:43)  also,  when  he  ap- 
peared to  Mary  in  the  garden,  when 
someone  said,  "Woman,  why  weepest 
thou?"  She  said  unto  him,  "Because 
they  have  taken  away  my  Lord  and  I 
know  not  where  they  have  laid  him." 

Jesus  said  unto  her,  "Woman,  why 
weepest  thou?  whom  seekest  thou?" 
(John  20:15.)  She  supposed  him  to  be 
the  gardener,  and  said  unto  him,  "Sir, 
if  thou  have  borne  him  hence,  tell  me 
where  thou  hast  laid  him,  and  I  will 
take  him  away."  Jesus  said  unto  her, 
"Mary."  She  turned  herself  and  said 
unto  him,  "Rabboni,  which  is  to  say, 
Master."  (See  John  20:13-16.) 

In  all  the  writings,  either  ancient  or 
modern,  there  is  nothing  more  beauti- 
ful, more  touching,  and  more  reassur- 
ing than  these  words  quoted  by  John. 
Jesus  again  supplied  that  vindication 
when  he  faced  the  apostles  in  an  upper 
room  and  when  he  talked  and  ate  with 
them:  "A  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and 
bones,  as  ye  see  me  have,"  (Luke  24:39) 
said  the  Master.  Again  he  supplied  it 
when  he  restored  the  wavering  faith  of 
Thomas  Didymus:  "Reach  hither  thy 
finger,  and  behold  my  hands;  and  reach 
hither  thy  hand  and  thrust  it  into  my 
side:  and  be  not  faithless,  but  believing." 
(John  20:27.)  That  circumstance  led  up 
to  the  last  Beatitude,  probably  the 
mightiest  of  them  all:  "Because  thou 
hast  seen  me,  thou  hast  believed:  blessed 


Second  Day 

are  they  that  have  not  seen,  and  yet 
have  believed."  (John  20:29.) 

That  doctrine  is  the  very  foundation 
of  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Jesus  again  supplied  it  when  he  appeared 
to  Saul  of  Tarsus  on  the  way  to 
Damascus  when  he  asked  the  question: 
"Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest  thou  me?" 
(Acts  9:4.) 

And  last,  but  not  least,  he  gave  to  the 
modern  world  a  vindication  and  an 
irrefutable  witness  when  he  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  in  a  grove 
of  trees  in  New  York,  where  God  spoke 
these  words: 

"This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!" 
(P.  of  G.  P.,  Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

The  strongest  fortification  you  and  I 
can  have  against  the  uncertainties  of 
life  is  the  testimony  which  we  have  re- 
ceived from  our  Father  in  heaven  con- 
cerning the  resurrection.  May  we  cher- 
ish it,  and  may  we  keep  it  strong;  and 
may  we  always  be  valiant  for  the  truth, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking. 
The  congregation  will  now  sing,  'We 
Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  a  Prophet," 
conducted  by  Richard  Condie.  Follow- 
ing the  singing,  Elder  Bruce  R.  McCon- 
kie  will  address  us. 


The  Singing  Mothers  Chorus  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a 
Prophet,"  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  will  now  speak 
to  us.  Elder  McConkie  will  be  followed 
by  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


We  believe  in  the  law  of  justification. 
By  virtue  of  this  law,  if  a  man 
walks,  acts,  and  lives  in  this  life  in 
such  a  manner  that  his  conduct  is  justi- 
fied by  the  Spirit,  he  eventually  will 


attain  an  inheritance  in  the  celestial 
world. 

On  the  day  the  Church  was  organ- 
ized, April  6,  1830,  the  Prophet,  writing 
by  way  of  prophecy  and  revelation, 


ELDER  BRUCE 

summarized  the  basic  doctrines  of  the 
Church.  Among  other  things  he  wrote 
this: 

And  we  know  that  justification  through 
the  grace  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  is  just  and  true.  (D  &  C  20:30.) 

In  the  summary  of  the  gospel  law 
given  in  the  days  of  Father  Adam,  we 
find  this  sentence: 

For  by  the  water  ye  keep  the  command- 
ment; by  the  Spirit  ye  are  justified,  and  by 
the  blood  ye  are  sanctified.  (Moses  6:60.) 

In  the  early  1830's,  when  the  Lord 
was  talking  to  the  Prophet  about  what 
is  called  the  new  and  everlasting  cove- 
nant— that  is,  about  the  fulness  of  the 
gospel — he  revealed  this  further  truth 
relative  to  this  great  law  of  justification, 
and  I  think  these  following  words  are 
a  perfect  one  sentence  summary  of  the 
whole  law  of  the  whole  gospel.  The 
Lord  said: 

...  All  covenants,  contracts,  bonds,  obli- 
gations, oaths,  vows,  performances,  con- 
nections, associations,  or  expectations,  that 
are  not  made  and  entered  into  and  sealed 
by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  of  him  who 
is  anointed,  both  as  well  for  time  and  for 
all  eternity,  and  that  too  most  holy,  by 
revelation  and  commandment  through  the 
medium  of  mine  anointed,  whom  I  have 
appointed  on  the  earth  to  hold  this  power 
.  .  .  are  of  no  efficacy,  virtue,  or  force  in 
and  after  the  resurrection  from  the  dead. 
(D  &  C  132:7.) 

One  more  expression  in  the  revelations 
has  bearing  on  this.  The  Lord  said: 

.  .  .  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  which 
the  Father  sheds  forth  upon  all  those  who 
are  just  and  true.  (D  &  C  76:53.) 

Now,  to  justify  is  to  seal,  or  to  ratify, 
or  to  approve;  and  it  is  very  evident 
from  these  revelations  that  every  act 
that  we  do,  if  it  is  to  have  binding  and 
sealing  virtue  in  eternity,  must  be  justi- 
fied by  the  Spirit.  In  other  words,  it 
must  be  ratified  by  the  Holy  Ghost;  or 
in  other  words,  it  must  be  sealed  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  Promise. 

All  of  us  know  that  we  can  deceive 
men.  We  can  deceive  our  bishops  or 
the  other  Church  agents,  unless  at  the 
moment  their  minds  are  lighted  by  the 
spirit  of  revelation;  but  we  cannot  de- 


ft. McCONKIE  65 

ceive  the  Lord.  We  cannot  get  from 
him  an  unearned  blessing.  There  will 
be  an  eventual  day  when  all  men  will 
get  exactly  and  precisely  what  they  have 
merited  and  earned,  neither  adding  to 
nor  subtracting  from.  You  cannot  with 
success  lie  to  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Now  let  us  take  a  simple  illustration. 
If  an  individual  is  to  gain  an  inheritance 
in  the  celestial  world,  he  has  to  enter 
in  at  the  gate  of  baptism,  that  ordinance 
being  performed  under  the  hands  of  a 
legal  administrator.  If  he  comes  for- 
ward prepared  by  worthiness,  that  is,  if 
he  is  just  and  true,  and  gains  baptism 
under  the  hands  of  a  legal  administrator, 
he  is  justified  by  the  Spirit  in  the  act 
which  has  been  performed;  that  is,  it 
is  ratified  by  the  Holy  Ghost,  or  it  is 
sealed  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  Promise. 
As  a  result  it  is  of  full  force  and  validity 
in  this  life  and  in  the  life  to  come. 

If  an  individual  thereafter  turns  from 
righteousness  and  goes  off  and  wallows 
in  the  mire  of  iniquity,  then  the  seal  is 
removed,  and  so  we  have  this  principle 
which  keeps  the  unworthy  from  gaining 
unearned  blessings.  The  Lord  has 
placed  a  bar  which  stops  the  progress 
of  the  unrighteous;  he  has  placed  a  re- 
quirement which  we  must  meet.  We 
must  gain  the  approval  and  receive  the 
sanctifying  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  if 
eventually  and  in  eternity  we  are  to 
reap  the  blessings  that  we  hope  to  reap. 

The  same  thing  that  is  true  of  bap- 
tism is  true  of  marriage.  If  a  couple 
comes  forward  worthily,  a  couple  who 
is  just  and  true,  and  they  enter  into 
that  ordinance  under  the  hands  of  a 
legal  administrator,  a  seal  of  approval 
is  recorded  in  heaven.  Then  assuming 
they  do  not  thereafter  break  that  seal, 
assuming  they  keep  the  covenant  and 
press  forward  in  steadfastness  and  in 
righteousness,  they  go  on  in  the  next 
world  as  husband  and  wife;  and  in  and 
after  the  resurrection,  that  ordinance 
performed  in  such  a  binding  manner 
here  has  full  force,  efficacy,  and  validity. 

I  think  perhaps  this  doctrine,  as  al- 
most all  other  doctrines  that  we  teach 
in  the  Church,  leads  us  back  to  the  same 
central  conclusion,  which  is  that  it  is 
obligatory  upon  us  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  if  we  ever  expect 
to  inherit  the  blessings  that  he  has 
promised  the  Saints.    We  should  re- 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

mind  ourselves  again  and  again  of  these 
words  which  he  has  spoken: 

...  he  who  doeth  the  works  of  righteous- 
ness shall  receive  his  reward,  even  peace 
in  this  world,  and  eternal  life  in  the  world 
to  come.  (D  &  C  59:23.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric.  Bishop  Buehner  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Marion  G.  Rom- 
ney,  our  concluding  speaker. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


It  is  truly  a  spiritual  feast  to  attend 
one  of  these  great  conferences.  There 
has  been  a  theme  running  through 
these  talks  that  has  said  to  me  that  we 
are  a  great  Church  of  action,  and  the 
more  action  the  greater  the  Church.  I 
am  sure  we  believe  in  being  doers  of  the 
word  and  not  hearers  only. 

I  constantly  marvel  at  some  of  the 
stories  I  hear  of  the  faith  of  the  young 
people  in  the  Church,  and  I  have  been 
inspired  by  them.  I  heard  a  story  of  a 
student  of  psychology  who  was  given  an 
assignment  to  ask  a  series  of  questions 
of  some  of  our  very  young  people  as 
part  of  his  assignment  at  the  univer- 
sity. Among  the  questions  that  he 
asked  was:  "Who  are  the  three  greatest 
men  in  the  world?" 

The  first  youngster  he  asked  the  ques- 
tion of  was  seven  years  of  age,  and  the 
seven-year-old  boy  said:  "George  Wash- 
ington, Abraham  Lincoln,  and  Brigham 
Young."  And  I  thought  that  was  a 
pretty  good  answer  for  a  seven-year-old 
boy.  The  student  went  two  houses  down 
the  street  and  asked  the  same  question 
of  a  five-year-old  boy:  "Who  are  the 
three  greatest  men  in  the  world?"  And 
the  five-year-old  boy  said:  "Our  Heav- 
enly Father,  Jesus,  and  President  Mc- 
Kay." If  you  could  add  fifty  years  to 
the  age  of  the  five-year-old  child,  I 
doubt  he  could  give  a  better  answer 
fifty  years  later  than  he  did  when  he 
was  interviewed  at  five  years  of  age. 
That  was  a  remarkable  answer  for  a 
five-year-old  boy,  and  it  denotes  the 
teaching  that  is  going  on  in  the  homes 
of  some  of  our  young  people. 

Then  this  same  man  asked  another 
question  of  a  lad  just  turning  three 
years  of  age — not  much  more  than  learn- 
ing to  talk.    He  said  to  this  boy  three, 


"Who  is  God?"  And  the  youngster, 
after  a  second,  said,  "Sunday  School." 
He  identified  the  word  God  with  Sun- 
day School.  This  man  said:  "I  asked 
the  same  question  of  a  girl  much  older 
one  day:  'Who  is  God?'  and  she  said, 
'That's  a  naughty  word.  We  do  not 
say  that  in  our  home.' " 

These  statements  are  full  of  meaning 
to  me,  and  I  appreciate  them.  Good 
training  by  the  parents  of  their  chil- 
dren, even  though  they  are  very  young, 
usually  stays  with  them  all  their  life. 
Think  of  these  same  youngsters  a  little 
later  when  they  hold  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  I  have  shaken  hands  with 
hundreds  of  young  men,  and  girls  of 
corresponding  ages,  who  are  attending 
this  great  conference  because  of  having 
a  perfect  record  in  attending  all  of  their 
meetings  during  the  past  year. 

Last  evening  Elder  LeGrand  Richards 
and  I  had  the  honor  of  being  enter- 
tained by  a  group  from  the  West  Ar- 
cadia Ward  of  the  Pasadena  Stake. 
Some  forty-one  youngsters  have  been 
brought  here  by  their  bishopric  because 
they  are  one  hundred  percenters  in  the 
Church,  and  I  never  saw  such  a  fine 
group  and  felt  such  a  marvelous  spirit 
as  I  did  among  these  young  people.  I 
sat  next  to  a  girl  who  has  been  a  100 
percenter,  who  has  only  been  a  member 
of  the  Church  for  three  weeks,  and 
sitting  on  the  same  row  was  another 
girl  twenty  years  of  age  who  had  been 
a  hundred  percenter  for  a  whole  year. 
Her  parents  have  been  objecting  to  her 
becoming  a  member  of  the  Church.  She 
said,  "I  am  just  waiting  to  be  twenty- 
one  years  of  age  so  that  I  can  be  bap- 
tized a  member  of  the  Church.  My 
parents,  not  understanding  what  this 
means  to  me,  have  been  objecting  to 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


67 


this."  In  spite  of  the  fact  that  this  girl 
is  not  a  member,  her  record  has  still 
been  100  percent  perfect,  and  she  has 
paid  to  the  Church  one-tenth  of  all 
she  has  earned  during  the  past  year. 
I  could  not  help  remarking  to  her,  "Be- 
cause of  your  great  faith,  I  would  not 
be  surprised  if  you  bring  your  father 
and  mother  into  the  Church  when  you 
are  admitted." 

It  is  a  great  blessing  and  a  wonderful 
privilege  to  be  associated  with  these 
young  people — to  feel  their  marvelous 
spirit.  Just  a  few  days  ago  a  bishop 
came  into  our  office,  and  said,  "I  must 
tell  you  about  one  of  my  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood boys.  He  has  had  a  perfect  rec- 
ord ever  since  he  has  been  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  On  Monday  morn- 
ing he  was  stricken  with  polio.  He 
was  taken  to  the  hospital.  As  soon  as 
he  arrived  at  the  hospital  and  his  doc- 
tor came  to  attend  him,  he  said  to  his 
doctor:  'Doctor,  I  have  to  be  out  of  here 
next  Saturday  night,  even  if  I  go  on 
crutches.  I  am  a  hundred  percenter  in 
my  Church  activities,  and  I  have  to  be 
in  my  meetings  next  Sunday,'  and  his 
doctor  said:  'Son,  I  am  afraid  you  are 
going  to  be  here  for  months.  You  will 
never  be  home  next  Sunday  to  attend 
your  meetings.'  The  young  man  said, 
'Well,  I  have  faith  that  the  Lord  will 
let  me  get  back  so  that  I  will  not  break 
my  record.'  He  was  administered  to 
during  the  week.  On  Saturday  night 
that  boy  left  the  hospital  on  crutches. 
On  Sunday  he  attended  his  meetings, 
and  three  days  later  threw  away  his 
crutches." 

I  like  the  faith  of  these  young  men. 
I  told  the  brethren  in  our  temple  meet- 
ing last  Thursday  of  two  others  that 
impressed  me.  I  was  attending  a  con- 
ference in  Idaho  a  year  ago  on  a  cold 
winter's  night,  with  deep  snow  on  the 
ground — it  was  seven  or  eight  below 
zero.  At  the  close  of  our  priesthood 
leadership  meeting,  a  man  brought  a 
deacon  up  to  shake  hands  with  me.  He 
said,  "This  young  man  tonight  walked 
five  and  a  half  miles  through  the  deep 
snow,  with  the  stinging  wind  blowing 
in  his  face  to  catch  a  ride  to  come  sixty- 
five  miles  farther  to  be  in  the  priest- 
hood leadership  meeting  because  you 
wanted  the  presidents  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  in  this  meeting." 


Well,  I'll  tell  you,  it  is  a  great  honor 
to  shake  hands  with  a  boy  who  magni- 
fies his  priesthood  as  did  this  young 
man. 

The  following  Sunday  I  could  not 
attend  my  conference  because  of  roads 
that  were  all  but  impassable.  Early 
Sunday  morning  I  was  digging  a  little 
pathway  through  the  deep  snow  that 
had  fallen  during  the  night,  and  down 
the  street  came  another  youngster  with- 
out a  hat  on,  whistling  a  little,  yet  very 
cheerful.  As  he  came  by,  I  said,  "Son, 
is  it  time  to  go  to  Church?"  and  he  said, 
"Yes,  sir.  It  will  be  priesthood  meeting 
in  fifteen  minutes,  and  you'd  better  be 
there." 

Well,  you  know,  if  every  man  in  our 
ward  had  had  an  invitation  to  come  to 
priesthood  meeting  as  I  had  that  Sun- 
day morning,  we  would  have  had  one 
hundred  percent  of  our  men  in  at- 
tendance. As  long  as  we  have  young 
men  exercising  such  great  faith  and 
appreciative  of  the  power  of  the  priest- 
hood as  have  these  young  men,  we  are 
always  going  to  have  leadership  in  this 
great  Church. 

Just  one  more — I  heard  this  just  a 
few  days  ago,  and  this  is  for  you  men 
in  the  service.  We  are  proud  of  you. 
I  heard  of  a  young  man  who,  with 
members  of  his  company,  attended  a 
beer  party.  As  the  party  progressed, 
the  other  members  noticed  that  this 
young  man  was  not  indulging.  They 
used  every  method  they  could  to  try  to 
get  this  young  man  to  drink  beer  and  to 
smoke  cigarets  along  with  the  rest  of 
them,  and  the  young  man  said,  "No,  I 
have  been  taught  differently.  I  am  not 
interested.  I  am  just  here  to  see  what  is 
going  on,  but  not  to  take  part." 

Finally,  they  decided  they  were  going 
to  test  him  a  little  more,  and  the  differ- 
ent men  of  the  company  began  a  col- 
lection until  they  had  collected  $17.00. 
Then  they  said  to  this  young  fellow, 
"If  you  will  take  a  drink  of  beer  or  if 
you  will  smoke  a  cigaret,  here  is  $17.00" 
and  the  young  man  said,  "No,  sir.  No 
money  can  buy  that  which  I  have  been 
taught  not  to  do." 

Standing  nearby,  but  unobserved,  was 
someone  who  heard  this  young  man 
being  tempted.  It  was  the  captain  of 
his  company.  The  following  morning, 
the  captain  called  this  young  man  in 


68 

Saturday,  April  7 

for  an  interview,  and  said  to  the  boy, 
"I  saw  and  heard  what  you  did  last 
night  when  you  were  out  with  other 
men  of  your  company.  I  admire  you 
for  your  stand.  Our  company  and  this 
army  needs  men  like  you.  You  can 
have  any  job  you  wish  in  this  company." 

Well,  young  servicemen,  you  are  a 
great  asset  to  the  Church  when  you  live 
your  lives  in  harmony  with  its  teach- 
ings. Some  of  you  have  been  excellent 
missionaries.  We  have  heard  of  a  num- 
ber who  have  been  converted  to  the 
Church  through  your  devotion  and 
faithfulness.  I  say,  "God  bless  you 
and  the  young  men  of  the  Church  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

all  of  us."  Let  us  make  this  a  great 
Church  of  action. 

I  have  often  said,  "Life  in  this  Church 
means  a  job  in  this  Church."  May  we 
all  secure  a  job  and  be  active  and  do  all 
we  can  to  help  build  up  God's  king- 
dom, I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  spoken  to  us. 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  conclud- 
ing speaker. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  have  enjoyed  this  day  very  much, 
and  in  harmony  with  Elder  Sonne 
there  echoes  in  my  heart  feelings  of 
approval  of  all  that  has  been  said  and 
done.  I  join  with  the  other  brethren 
in  congratulating  the  Church  on  hav- 
ing our  great  President,  after  fifty  years 
of  wonderful  service,  as  our  leader.  I 
have  loved  him  for  a  long  time.  I  met 
him  first  in  California  when  as  a  lad 
I  was  a  Mormon  refugee  from  Mexico. 
I  saw  him  later  in  far  away  Australia. 
More  recently  I  had  the  great  honor  to 
be  the  first  member  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  selected  by  him.  I  greatly 
honor  him. 

I  think  I  can  give  you  my  message 
for  this  conference  so  that  you  can  get 
it  fully  if  you  will  do  a  little  reading. 
Because  of  the  great  interest  evidenced 
by  the  public  in,  and  some  resulting 
confusion  from,  certain  so-called  super- 
natural manifestations,  such  as  telecast 
healings,  hypnotic  performances,  and 
the  doctrine  of  reincarnation,  I  thought 
it  might  be  appropriate  for  me  to  take 
as  my  text  the  seventh  Article  of  Faith, 
which  reads:  "We  believe  in  the  gift 
of  tongues,  prophecy,  revelation,  visions, 
healing,  interpretation  of  tongues,  etc." 

You  can  get  the  message  I  would  like 
to  give  you  in  more  detail  than  I  will 
have  time  to  give  it  here  if  you  will 
read  the  forty-sixth  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  and  an  editorial 
written  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 


1842,  titled  "Try  the  Spirits,"  which 
you  will  find  in  Volume  IV,  History 
of  the  Church,  page  571.  It  is  also 
printed  in  the  Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  compiled  by  our  beloved 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
beginning  on  page  202. 

/.  Gifts  of  the  Spirit  a  Characteristic  of 
the  Church  of  Christ 

The  gifts  named  in  the  seventh  Arti- 
cle of  Faith,  quoted  above,  are  gifts  of 
the  Holy  Ghost.  The  enjoyment  of 
them  has  always  been  a  distinctive  char- 
acteristic of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
As  a  matter  of  fact,  without  the  gift  of 
revelation,  which  is  one  of  the  gifts  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  there  could  be  no 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  This  is  ap- 
parent from  the  obvious  fact  that  in 
order  for  his  Church  to  exist,  there 
must  be  a  society  of  people  who  in- 
dividually have  testimonies  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ.  According  to  Paul,  such 
testimonies  are  revealed  only  by  the 
Holy  Ghost,  for  said  he,  ".  .  .  no  man 
can  [know]  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Lord, 
but  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (See  I  Cor. 
12:3.)  In  the  46th  section  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants,  the  Lord  specifical- 
ly lists  such  knowledge  as  one  of  the 
gifts  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  as  follows: 
"To  some  it  is  given  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son 
of  God,  .  .  ."  (D  &  C  46:13.)  Everyone 
who  has  a  testimony  of  Jesus  has  re- 


ELDER  MARK 

ceived  it  by  revelation  from  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  Holy  Ghost  is  a  revelator, 
and  everyone  who  receives  him  receives 
revelation. 

Wherever  and  whenever  revelation  is 
operative,  manifestations  of  other  gifts 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  are  prevalent.  This 
has  been  so  in  all  dispensations.  It 
began  with  Father  Adam  who,  having 
obeyed,  repented  and  called  upon  God 
in  the  name  of  the  Son,  ".  .  .  was  caught 
away  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  was 
carried  down  into  the  water,  and  was 
laid  under  the  water,  and  was  brought 
forth  out  of  the  water. 

"And  thus  he  was  baptized,  and  the 
Spirit  of  God  descended  upon  him,  and 
thus  he  was  born  of  the  Spirit,  .  .  ." 
(Moses  6:64-65.)  And  in  that  very  day 
"the  Holy  Ghost  fell  upon"  him,  and  he 
"began  to  prophesy."  (Ibid.,  5:9-10.) 

The  prophets  from  Adam  to  Malachi 
all  enjoyed  gifts  of  the  Spirit.  To  Abra- 
ham was  shown  in  vision  the  spirits  of 
men  as  they  were  in  the  spirit  world 
ere  this  earth  rolled  into  being  or  ever 
"the  morning  stars  sang  together  or  the 
sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy."  (See  Job 
38:7.)  In  the  days  of  Moses,  Aaron's 
rod  became  a  serpent,  the  waters  of 
Egypt  were  turned  to  blood,  for  the 
Israelites  a  dry  passage  was  provided 
through  the  Red  Sea,  and  in  the  desert 
water  burst  from  the  solid  rock  to 
quench  their  thirst.  In  the  days  of  the 
prophets,  the  widow's  son  was  raised 
from  the  dead,  and  fire  came  down  from 
heaven  to  consume  Elijah's  sacrifice  in 
his  contest  with  the  priests  of  Baal.  The 
leprous  Naaman  was  instantly  healed 
by  following  the  instructions  of  Elisha. 

Jesus  exercised  power  over  all  things. 
He  healed  the  sick,  restored  the  lame, 
gave  sight  to  the  blind,  cast  out  devils, 
and  raised  the  dead.  He  turned  water 
into  wine,  cursed  the  barren  fig  tree, 
stilled  the  storm,  and  walked  upon  the 
sea.  He  miraculously  fed  the  four  and 
the  five  thousand,  and  provided  the 
tribute  money. 

Among  the  gifts  of  the  spirit  mani- 
fest in  the  Apostolic  Church,  Paul  lists 
wisdom,  knowledge,  faith,  healing, 
working  of  miracles,  prophecy,  discern- 
ing of  spirits,  diverse  kinds  of  tongues, 
and  the  interpretation  of  tongues.  The 
New  Testament  records  numerous  exam- 
ples of  the  manifestation  of  these  gifts. 


/  G.  ROMNEY  69 

Among  the  Jaredites  and  Nephites, 
the  manifestations  of  these  gifts  were 
likewise  prevalent.  Mormon  testified 
that  they  would  not  cease  except  for 
unbelief,  ".  .  .  so  long  as  time  shall  last, 
or  the  earth  shall  stand,  or  there  shall 
be  one  man  upon  the  face  thereof  to 
be  saved?"  (Moroni  7:36.) 

Unfortunately,  however,  and  because 
of  unbelief,  they  did  cease,  both  in  the 
old  world  and  in  the  new.  For  more 
than  fifteen  centuries,  so  far  as  our  rec- 
ords reveal,  no  mortal  man  enjoyed 
them.  Then  finally  came  that  glorious 
event  in  1820  when,  by  the  appearance 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  this  awful 
darkness  was  put  to  flight  and  the  re- 
turn of  these  gifts  of  the  spirit  heralded. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  translated  the 
Book  of  Mormon  by  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  directions  to  him  to  organ- 
ize the  Church  came  in  like  manner. 
Within  a  year  from  the  organization 
of  the  Church,  the  Lord  set  forth  in  a 
revelation  the  gifts  which  were  to  be 
enjoyed  in  the  restored  Church.  He 
named  all  those  listed  by  Paul,  to  which 
were  added  the  following: 

To  some  it  is  given  by  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of 
God,  and  that  he  was  crucified  for  the  sins 
of  the  world. 

To  others  it  is  given  to  believe  on  their 
words,  that  they  also  might  have  eternal 
life  if  they  continue  faithful. 

And  again,  to  some  it  is  given  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  know  the  differences  of 
administration,  .  .  . 

And  ...  to  some  to  know  the  diversities 
of  operations,  whether  they  be  of  God,  .  .  . 
(D  &  C  46:13-16.) 

In  1839  the  Prophet  Joseph  told  Mr. 
Van  Buren,  then  President  of  the 
United  States,  that  possession  of  "the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost"  was  the  dis- 
tinguishing difference  between  the  re- 
stored Church  and  other  religions  of 
the  day. 

I  know  that  the  gifts  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  are  in  the  Church  today.  Every 
faithful  Latter-day  Saint  knows  that 
they  are.  As  Sister  Romney  and  I  left 
this  building  at  the  close  of  one  of  the 
conference  meetings  yesterday,  a  faith- 
ful sister  was  waiting  at  the  door  for 
us.  She  called  our  attention  to  an  ad- 
ministration received  by  her  some  three 
years  ago  at  a  stake  conference  in  Cali- 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

fornia.  She,  with  cancer,  and  her  fam- 
ily, all  fasting,  sought  for  her  a  bless- 
ing. She  reported  yesterday  that  she 
was  well.  No  evidence  of  her  former 
affliction  remains.  Presently  she  is  a 
stake  missionary. 

Yes,  all  the  gifts  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
are  in  the  Church  today. 

//.  Not  All  Supernatural  Manifestations 
Are  Gifts  of  the  Spirit. 

By  the  statement  in  the  revelation  on 
spiritual  gifts,  ".  .  .  it  is  given  by  the 
Holy  Ghost  to  some  to  know  the  di- 
versities of  operations,  whether  they  be 
of  God,  .  .  .  and  to  others  the  dis- 
cerning of  spirits,"  it  appears  that  there 
are  some  apparently  supernatural  mani- 
festations which  are  not  worked  by  the 
power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  The  truth 
is  there  are  many  which  are  not.  The 
world  today  is  full  of  counterfeits.  It 
has  always  been  so.  Away  back  in  the 
days  of  Moses,  when  Aaron's  rod  be- 
came a  serpent,  then  Pharaoh's  wise 
men,  sorcerers  and  magicians  ".  .  .  cast 
down  every  man  his  rod,  and  they  be- 
came serpents:  .  .  ."  (Ex.  7:11-12.) 
Isaiah  warned  against  seeking  ".  .  .  unto 
them  that  have  familiar  spirits,  and  unto 
wizards  that  peep,  and  that  mutter: .  .  ." 
(Isa.  8:19.) 

Jesus,  in  his  great  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  plainly  stated  that: 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord, 
Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven;  .  .  . 

Many  will  say  to  me  in  that  day,  Lord, 
Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in  thy  name? 
and  in  thy  name  have  cast  out  devils?  and 
in  thy  name  done  many  wonderful  works? 

And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them,  I 
never  knew  you:  depart  from  me,  ye  that 
work  iniquity.  (Matt.  7:21-23.) 

Before  the  end  of  1830,  the  very  year 
in  which  the  restored  Church  was  or- 
ganized, some  of  the  leading  brethren 
were  deceived  as  to  the  source  of  cer- 
tain spiritual  manifestations.  "To  our 
great  grief  .  .  .,"  wrote  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  "Satan  had  been  lying  in  wait 
to  deceive,  and  seeking  whom  he  might 
devour.  Brother  Hiram  Page  had  in  his 
possession  a  certain  stone,  by  which  he 
had  obtained  certain  'revelations'  con- 
cerning the  upbuilding  of  Zion,  the  or- 
der of  the  Church,  etc.,  all  of  which 
were  entirely  at  variance  with  the  order 


Second  Day 

of  God's  house,  as  laid  down  in  the 
New  Testament,  as  well  as  in  our  late 
revelations."  (History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  I,  pp.  109-110.)  In  a  revelation 
given  in  answer  to  the  Prophet's  prayer 
concerning  the  matter,  the  Lord  said  to 
Oliver  Cowdery: 

.  .  .  thou  shalt  take  thy  brother,  Hiram 
Page,  between  him  and  thee  alone,  and 
tell  him  that  those  things  which  he  hath 
written  from  that  stone  are  not  of  me,  and 
that  Satan  deceiveth  him;  (D  &  C  28:11.) 

The  Saints  were  cautioned  by  the  Lord 
to  walk  uprightly  before  him,  doing  all 
things  with  prayer  and  thanksgiving, 
that  they  might  ".  .  .  not  be  seduced 
by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines  of  devils, 
or  the  commandments  of  men;  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  46:7.) 

These  citations  not  only  sustain  the 
proposition  that  there  are  counterfeits 
to  the  gifts  of  the  spirit,  but  they  also 
suggest  the  origin  of  the  counterfeits. 
However,  we  are  not  required  to  rely 
alone  upon  their  implications,  plain 
as  they  are,  for  the  Lord  states  spe- 
cifically that  some  of  the  counterfeits 
".  .  .  are  of  men,  and  others  of  devils." 
(Ibid.,  46:7.) 

Some  of  these  counterfeits  are  crude 
and  easily  detected,  but  others  closely 
simulate  true  manifestations  of  the 
spirit.  Consequently,  people  are  con- 
fused and  deceived  by  them.  Without 
a  key,  one  cannot  distinguish  between 
the  genuine  and  the  counterfeit.  The 
Egyptians  could  not  tell  the  difference 
between  the  power  through  which  Moses 
and  Aaron  worked  and  that  by  which 
the  magicians  worked.  On  the  day  of 
Pentecost,  the  non-believers  did  not 
recognize  that  the  apostles  were  speak- 
ing in  tongues  by  the  power  of  the 
spirit;  on  the  contrary,  they  concluded 
that  they  were  "drunken  with  new 
wine."  The  Savior  himself  said, 

.  .  .  there  shall  also  arise  false  Christs, 
and  false  prophets,  and  shall  show  great 
signs  and  wonders,  insomuch,  that,  if  pos- 
sible, they  shall  deceive  the  very  elect,  who 
are  the  elect  according  to  the  covenant. 
(Joseph  Smith  1:22.) 

Now,  those  "who  are  the  elect  ac- 
cording to  the  covenant"  are  members 
of  the  Church,  so  we  ourselves  are  on 
notice  to  beware. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


71 


177.  Distinguishing  Between  the  Mani- 
festations of  the  Spirit  and  the  Coun- 
terfeits. 

This  brings  us  to  our  most  important 
consideration.  Believing  as  we  do  in 
all  the  gifts  named  in  the  46th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and 
knowing  that  there  are  counterfeits  to 
them,  how  are  we  to  distinguish  between 
the  true  and  the  false,  the  genuine  and 
the  counterfeit? 

The  Apostle  John  gave  to  the  saints 
in  his  day  the  following  test: 

Beloved,  believe  not  every  spirit,  but  try 
the  spirits  whether  they  are  of  God:  because 
many  false  prophets  are  gone  out  into  the 
world. 

Hereby  know  ye  the  Spirit  of  God:  Every 
spirit  that  confesseth  that  Jesus  Christ  is 
come  in  the  flesh  is  of  God: 

And  every  spirit  that  confesseth  not  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  come  in  the  flesh  is  not  of 
God:  ...  (1  John  4:1-3.) 

This  was  a  good  test  for  them.  It 
will  not,  however,  do  for  us.  The 
reason  is  given  by  the  Prophet  Joseph 
as  follows: 

Did  not  the  Apostle  speak  the  truth? 
Certainly  he  did,  but  he  spoke  to  a  people 
who  were  under  the  penalty  of  death,  the 
moment  they  embraced  Christianity;  and 
no  one  without  a  knowledge  of  the  fact 
would  confess  it,  and  expose  themselves  to 
death.  (History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  IV,  p. 
580.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  having  recited 
some  of  the  workings  of  evil  spirits  in 
his  day,  said: 

A  man  must  have  the  discerning  of  spirits 
before  he  can  drag  into  daylight  this  hellish 
influence  and  unfold  it  unto  the  world  in 
all  its  soul-destroying,  diabolical,  and  hor- 
rid colors;  for  nothing  is  a  greater  injury 
to  the  children  of  men  than  to  be  under 
the  influence  of  a  false  spirit  when  they 
think  they  have  the  spirit  of  God.  Thou- 
sands have  felt  the  influence  of  its  terrible 
power  and  baneful  effects.  Long  pilgrim- 
ages have  been  undertaken,  penances  en- 
dured, and  pain,  misery  and  ruin  have 
followed  in  their  train;  nations  have  been 
convulsed,  kingdoms  overthrown,  provinces 
laid  waste,  and  blood,  carnage  and  desola- 
tion are  habiliments  in  which  it  has  been 
clothed.  (History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  IV, 
p.  573.) 


Without  attempting  an  exhaustive 
discussion  of  this  question,  I  shall  take 
the  liberty  to  suggest  three  simple  tests 
which,  if  applied,  will  prove  of  great 
value  in  making  the  distinction. 

First,  determine  whether  the  alleged 
supernatural  manifestation  is  edifying. 
If  it  is  not,  then  it  is  not  of  God  be- 
cause spiritual  gifts  are  given  for  the 
edification  of  God's  people. 

Paul,  writing  to  the  Corinthian  saints 
concerning  spiritual  gifts,  instructed 
them  to  "let  all  things  be  done  unto 
edifying."  And  of  those  who  would 
speak  in  tongues  he  said,  "If  there  be 
no  interpreter,  let  him  keep  silence  in 
the  church;  .  .  ."  And  as  to  prophecy 
he  added,  ".  .  .  the  spirits  of  the  proph- 
ets are  subject  to  the  prophets. 

"For  God  is  not  the  author  of  confu- 
sion, but  of  peace.  .  .  ."  (I  Cor.  14:26- 
33.)  He  compared  the  speaking  in 
tongues  without  a  clear  interpretation 
thereof  to  a  trumpet  giving  forth  an 
uncertain  sound,  at  which  no  one  would 
know  whether  to  prepare  for  the  battle. 
"There  are,"  he  wrote,  ...  So  many 
kinds  of  voices  in  the  world,  .  .  . 

Therefore,  if  I  know  not  the  meaning 
of  the  voice,  I  shall  be  unto  him  that 
speaketh  a  barbarian,  and  he  that  speaketh 
shall  be  a  barbarian  unto  me.  (I  Cor.  14:8- 
11.) 

That  the  saints  of  the  infant  Church 
in  this  dispensation  be  not  deceived,  the 
Lord  pleaded  with  them  to  keep  in  mind 
that  the  purpose  of  spiritual  gifts  was 
to  benefit  those  who  loved  him  and  kept 
his  commandments.  They  were  not  to 
be  given  as  signs  to  those  who  would 
consume  them  upon  their  lusts. 

Second — this  pertains  particularly  to 
purported  supernatural  healings — find 
out  whether  the  purported  healer  fol- 
lows the  divinely  established  procedure, 
that  is,  does  he  do  as  Jesus  did  when 
he  laid  his  hands  upon  the  sick  and 
healed  them  (See  Mark  6:5)  and  as  his 
apostles  did  when,  at  his  direction,  they 
"went  out,  and  preached  that  men 
should  repent. 

"And  .  .  .  cast  out  many  devils,  and 
anointed  with  oil  many  that  were  sick, 
and  healed  them."  (Ibid.,  6:12-13.) 
The  pattern  which  prevailed  in  the 
Apostolic  Church,  and  which  has  been 
prescribed  anew  by  revelation  in  this 


72  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  7 

day  (D  &  C  42:43-44),  is  set  out  by 
James  as  follows: 

Is  any  sick  among  you?  let  him  call  for 
the  elders  of  the  church;  and  let  them  pray 
over  him,  anointing  him  with  oil  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord: 

And  the  prayer  of  faith  shall  save  the 
sick,  and  the  Lord  shall  raise  him  up;  and 
if  he  have  committed  sins,  they  shall  be 
forgiven  him.  (James  5:14-15.) 

Third,  find  out  whether  the  worker 
of  the  purported  miracle  has  himself 
received  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
through  the  prescribed  ordinances.  If 
he  has  not,  then  his  works,  whatever 
they  may  be,  are  not  the  manifestations 
of  the  Holy  Spirit.  This  is  a  key  test 
because,  as  we  have  already  pointed 
out,  the  gifts  of  the  spirit  are  given  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Without 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  mani- 
festations of  his  gifts  may  not  be  en- 
joyed. The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  states 
this  foundation  doctrine  as  follows: 

We  believe  in  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
being  enjoyed  now,  as  much  as  it  was  in 
the  Apostles'  day;  we  believe  that  it  [the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost]  is  necessary  to  make 
and  to  organize  the  priesthood,  that  no  man 
can  be  called  to  fill  any  office  in  the  min- 
istry without  it;  we  also  believe  in  prophecy, 
in  tongues,  in  visions,  and  in  revelations, 
in  gifts,  and  in  healings;  and  that  these 
things  cannot  be  enjoyed  without  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  V,  p.  27.) 

Thus  one  who  has  never  received  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  cannot  possibly 
work  miracles  by  his  power. 

Now,  we  know  that  there  is  but  one 
way  to  obtain  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
That  way  is  through  the  prescribed 
ordinances  of  baptism  by  immersion 
for  the  remission  of  sins  and  the  laying 
on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost.  The  Apostle  Paul's  procedure 
emphasizes  the  indispensability  of  these 
ordinances.    Coming  to 

.  .  .  Ephesus:  and  finding  certain  disciples, 

He  said  unto  them,  Have  ye  received  the 
Holy  Ghost  since  ye  believed?  And  they 
said  unto  him,  We  have  not  so  much  as 
heard  whether  there  be  any  Holy  Ghost. 

And  he  said  unto  them,  Unto  what  then 
were  ye  baptized?  And  they  said,  Unto 
John's  baptism. 

Then  said  Paul,  John  verily  baptized 
with  the  baptism  of  repentance,  saying  unto 


Second  Day 

the  people,  that  they  should  believe  on  him 
which  should  come  after  him,  that  is,  on 
Christ  Jesus. 

When  they  heard  this,  they  were  baptized 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus. 

And  when  Paul  had  laid  his  hands  upon 
them,  the  Holy  Ghost  came  on  them;  and 
they  spake  with  tongues,  and  prophesied. 
(Acts  19:2-6.) 

These  gifts  of  the  spirit  they  could 
not  possibly  have  exercised  until  after 
they  had  received  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  through  compliance  with  the 
proper  ordinances.  Such  has  been  the 
procedure  for  receiving  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  from  the  days  of  Father 
Adam.  We  quoted  at  the  beginning  of 
these  remarks  the  procedure  by  which 
he  received  it.  That  procedure  was  pre- 
cisely the  same  as  that  followed  by  Paul 
in  bestowing  it.  Such  will  always  be 
the  procedure,  for  God  established  it. 
Said  the  Prophet  Joseph, 

Baptism  is  a  holy  ordinance  preparatory 
to  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost;  it  is 
the  channel  and  key  by  which  the  Holy 
Ghost  will  be  administered. 

The  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying 
on  of  hands,  cannot  be  received  through 
the  medium  of  any  other  principle  than  the 
principle  of  righteousness,  for  if  the  pro- 
posals are  not  complied  with  it  is  of  no 
use,  but  withdraws.  (History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  Ill,  p.  379.) 

Now,  righteous  men,  bearing  the  holy 
priesthood  of  the  living  God  and  en- 
dowed with  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
who  are  magnifying  their  callings — and 
such  are  the  only  men  upon  the  earth 
with  the  right  to  receive  and  exercise 
the  gifts  of  the  spirit — will  do  so  cir- 
cumspectly and  in  all  humility.  They 
will  not  spectacularly  advertise  their 
divine  power  nor  boast  about  it.  Neither 
will  they  display  it  for  money.  Of  this 
you  may  be  sure. 

IV.  Tests  for  Special  Claims  and  Doc- 
trines 

Now,  the  Prophet  gave  other  tests  ap- 
plicable to  special  claims  and  doctrines, 
of  which  the  following  two  are  typical. 

(1)  He  made  it  clear  that  there  is 
never  more  than  one  man  on  the  earth 
at  a  time  authorized  to  receive  revela- 
tions for  the  Church.  This  principle 
answered  the  claims  of  the  purported 
peepstone  revelations. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


73 


(2)  Of  an  interview  with  a  Mr.  Mat- 
thias, the  Prophet  wrote: 

He  said  that  he  possessed  the  spirit  of 
his  fathers,  that  he  was  a  literal  descendant 
of  Matthias,  the  Apostle,  who  was  chosen 
in  the  place  of  Judas  that  fell;  that  his 
spirit  was  resurrected  in  him;  and  that  this 
was  the  way  or  scheme  of  eternal  life — 
this  transmigration  of  soul  or  spirit  from 
father  to  son. 

I  told  him  that  his  doctrine  was  of  the 
devil.  (History  of  the  Church,  Vol.  II,  p. 
307.) 

Thus  removing  all  doubt  with  respect 

to  the  purported  doctrine  of  "trans- 
migration of  souls  or  spirits,"  currently 
referred  to  as  reincarnation. 

In  conclusion,  I  again  call  attention 
to  the  statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  already  quoted,  that  "A  man  must 
have  the  discerning  of  spirits  before  he 
can  drag  into  daylight  this  hellish  in- 
fluence and  unfold  it  unto  the  world 
in  all  its  soul-destroying,  diabolical,  and 
horrid  colors;"  for  after  all,  the  things 
of  God  can  be  understood  only  by  the 
spirit  of  God.  (See  I  Cor.  2:11.)  The 
gift  of  "discernment  of  spirits"  is  the 
sure  solution  to  this  knotty  problem. 
Seek  after  this  gift,  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  after  its  kindred  gifts — knowledge, 
wisdom,  and  "to  know  the  diversities  of 
operations  whether  they  be  of  God," — 
and  not  after  sensational  and  miraculous 
signs  and  wonders.   Remember  that 

.  .  .  unto  the  bishop  of  the  church,  and 
unto  such  as  God  shall  appoint  and  ordain 
to  watch  over  the  church  and  to  be  elders 
unto  the  church,  are  to  have  it  given  unto 
them  to  discern  all  those  gifts  lest  there 
shall  be  any  among  you  professing  and  yet 
be  not  of  God. 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  he  that 
asketh  in  Spirit  shall  receive  in  Spirit; 

That  unto  some  it  may  be  given  to  have 
all  those  gifts,  that  there  may  be  a  head, 
in  order  that  every  member  may  be  profited 
thereby.  (D  &  C  46:27-29.) 

Finally: 

Be  virtuous  and  pure;  be  men  of  in- 
tegrity and  truth;  keep  the  commandments 
of  God;  and  then  you  will  be  able  more 
perfectly  to  understand  the  difference  be- 
tween right  and  wrong — between  the  things 
[gifts]  of  God  and  the  things  of  men;  and 
your  path  will  be  like  that  of  the  just, 
which  shineth  brighter  and  brighter  unto 


the  perfect  day.  (History  of  the  Church, 
Vol.  V,  p.  31.) 

God  grant  that  it  may  be  so,  I  hum- 
bly pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to 
us.  Tonight,  at  7:00  o'clock,  the  Gen- 
eral Meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the 
Church  will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake 
Tabernacle.  Only  those  holding  the 
Priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present. 
Persons  not  holding  the  Priesthood  will 
kindly  refrain  from  attempting  to  enter 
the  building.  The  Priesthood  Session 
will  not  be  broadcast.  However,  in  ad- 
dition to  the  overflow  meetings  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  the 
proceedings  of  this  Priesthood  Meeting 
will  be  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled 
in  65  other  Church  buildings  in  Utah, 
California,  Idaho,  Oregon,  Nevada, 
Colorado,  Washington,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, and  Hawaii. 

The  session  at  ten  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL 
over  fourteen  radio  stations  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Colorado,  Nevada,  Arizona,  and 
Oregon.  These  services  will  also  be 
televised  over  KSL-TV,  Channel  5,  and 
by  special  arrangement  over  eighteen 
television  stations  in  Idaho,  Washing- 
ton, California,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Ne- 
vada, and  Colorado.  This  will  be  the 
largest  television  coverage  we  have  ever 
had. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast 
over  the  CBS  network  which  will  have 
been  recorded  in  advance  will  be  re- 
leased by  KSL  radio  station  from  8:00  to 
8:30  A.M.,  tomorrow.  President  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith,  president  of  the  Quorum 
of  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  broadcast  will 
be  from  9:30  to  10:00  A.M.  Those  de- 
siring to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15 
A.M.  It  is  requested  that  the  audience 
during  the  broadcast  refrain  from  mak- 
ing any  disturbance.  Large  crowds  will 
undoubtedly  be  waiting  outside  the 
closed  doors  and  when  opened  there  is 
usually  a  rush  by  those  outside  to  get 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

good  seats.  We  plead  with  those  thus 
standing  to  be  courteous  and  considerate 
one  to  another.  Avoid  pushing,  crowd- 
ing, will  you  please.  Courtesy  is  a  great 
virtue.  Let  us  show  it  one  to  another 
and  especially  to  our  visitors  who  are 
within  the  city's  gates. 

All  the  music  to  be  used  by  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  in  the  Conference  ses- 
sions tomorrow  and  the  numbers  to  be 
sung  by  the  Choir  over  the  CBS  broad- 
cast tomorrow  morning  will  be  taken 
from  the  Choir's  European  concert  reper- 
toire. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence will  begin  at  10:00  o'clock  tomor- 
row morning. 

You  who  have  been  following  this  ses- 
sion over  the  television,  as  you  who  have 
been  sitting  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  will 
have  observed  that  our  Singing  Mothers 
have  filled  all  of  the  seats  usually  occu- 
pied by  the  Choir,  and  as  I  have 
counted,  35  others  on  each  side  of  the 
Tabernacle  occupy  seats  in  the  gallery. 
They  move  over  to  join  in  the  inspira- 
tional singing. 

I  do  not  know  what  to  say  in  appre- 
ciation of  what  these  mothers  are  do- 
ing, what  they  do  to  furnish  this  music, 
to  practice  and  to  take  time  out  of  their 
busy  lives  to  take  the  songs  given  by 
Sister  Madsen,  practice  them  and  then 
come  to  a  general  practice  so  that  they 
can  sing  as  they  have  sung  this  day 
to  us. 

There  is  one  of  the  most  beautiful 


Second  Day 

tributes  in  literature  to  Mother — it  is 
most  poetic,  but  I  like  it  and  I  like  to 
think  of  my  mother  when  I  say  it.  It  is 
in  "The  Princess."  The  Prince  is  talking 
to  his  father,  who  had  been  speaking 
rather  disparagingly  about  women,  and 
the  Prince  adds: 

".  .  .  and  she  of  whom  you  speak, 

My  mother,  looks  as  whole  (now  note 

this  comparison)  as  some  serene 
Creation  minted  in  the  golden  mood 
Of  sovereign  artist;  not  a  thought,  a 

touch, 

But  pure  as  lines  of  green  that  streak 

the  white 
Of  the  first  snowdrop's  inner  leaves." 

Many  in  the  audience  undoubtedly 
have  their  mothers  here.  Thank  you, 
and  God  bless  you.  And  you,  Sister 
Madsen,  for  your  masterful  leadership. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
will  now  favor  us  with,  "I  Know  That 
My  Redeemer  Liveth."  After  the  bene- 
diction by  Elder  C.  Bryant  Whiting,  this 
Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  this 
evening  at  7:00  o'clock. 

"I  Know  That  My  Redeemer  Liveth." 


Singing  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing 
Mothers,  "I  Know  That  My  Redeemer 
Liveth." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Pres- 
ident C.  Bryant  Whiting  of  the  St. 
Johns  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of 
the  Church  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Saturday  evening,  April  7,  1956,  at  7:00 
p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services. 

The  special  music  for  this  session  was 
furnished  by  the  Reno  Latter-day  Saints 
Male  Chorus,  with  Elder  Ladd  R.  Crop- 
per, director  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley 
as  organist. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  General  Priesthood  Session  is  the 
Fifth  Session   of  the   One  Hundred 


Twenty-Sixth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  You  will  be  interested  to  know 
that  these  services  are  being  broadcast 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  in  the  Barratt 
Hall,  Salt  Lake  City,  over  a  public  ad- 
dress system.  In  addition  the  services 
are  being  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled 
in  65  other  Church  buildings  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Wyoming,  Nevada,  Colorado, 
Washington,  Oregon,  California,  Ari- 
zona, and  Hawaii. 

President  Clark  reminded  me  tonight, 
or  expressed  the  thought,  that  probably 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


75 


this  is  the  first  time  in  the  history  of 
the  Church  that  Priesthood  services  have 
gone  across  the  ocean. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Reno  Latter-day 
Saints  Male  Chorus,  with  Elder  Ladd 
R.  Cropper,  director,  and  Elder  Roy  M. 
Darley,  organist.  That  is  an  event  to 
have  these  young  men  coming  from 
Reno,  Nevada.  We  welcome  them  and 
appreciate  their  presence,  and  I  know 
we  shall  be  inspired  by  their  singing. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Reno  Latter-day  Saints  Male  Chorus 
singing,  "Onward  Christian  Soldiers," 
conducted  by  Elder  Cropper.  Elder 
Ralph  B.  Lake,  president  of  the  Willa- 
mette Stake,  will  offer  the  opening 
prayer. 


The  Reno  Latter-day  Saints  Male 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Onward  Chris- 
tian Soldiers." 


ELDER  MARK 

Of  the  Council  of 

In  his  magnificent  opening  address, 
President  McKay,  you  will  recall, 
spoke  of  the  great  responsibility  we 
have  to  our  children,  of  the  importance 
of  parents  properly  rearing  their  chil- 
dren, and  then,  of  course,  of  the  re- 
sponsibility of  the  Church  in  cooperating 
with  the  family  in  assisting  the  children 
to  understand  the  reason  for  living  a 
righteous  life. 

We  are  endeavoring  to  develop  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  what  Peter  spoke 
of  as  a  "royal  priesthood,  an  holy  na- 
tion, a  peculiar  people  called  out  of 
darkness  into  his  marvelous  light."  And 
yet,  as  we  do  so  in  this  modern  age,  it 
seems  that  the  very  gates  of  hell  at  times 
seem  open  to  invite  our  young  people  in. 
With  alluring  advertisements  on  radio, 
on  TV,  and  in  the  newspapers  and 
magazines,  men  of  the  world  attempt  to 
make  evil  appear  to  be  good  and  de- 
sirable. They  attempt  to  make  tempta- 
tion glitter  like  gold.  In  the  face  of  it 
our  children  must  make  a  great  decision. 
They  must  understand  so  that  they  can 
intelligently  make  a  choice  between  that 
which  is  right  and  that  which  is  wrong. 


Elder  Ralph  B.  Lake,  president  of  the 
Willamette  Stake,  offered  the  invoca- 
tion. 

The  Reno  Latter-day  Saints  Male 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need  Thee 
Every  Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  some  time  past  members  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  through  a  spe- 
cial committee,  have  been  working  on 
a  special  project  that  we  all  feel  sure 
will  be  of  great  value  to  the  entire 
Church,  and  particularly  to  the  young 
people  of  the  Church. 

Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  present  that 
project  to  you  now.  We  wish  that  you 
brethren  listening  in  had  television,  but 
I  am  sure  Elder  Petersen  will  explain 
it  so  that  you  will  be  interested  as  well 
as  the  8,000  or  10,000  members  who 
are  here  in  the  Tabernacle. 


E.  PETERSEN 

the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  believe  that  as  a  general  thing, 
if  we  train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he 
should  go,  when  he  is  old  he  will  not 
depart  from  it.  We  believe  that  comes 
with  the  inspiration  of  our  Father  in 
Heaven.  The  Lord  has  said  in  revela- 
tion in  these,  the  last  days  that  he 
would  bless  us,  his  people,  so  that  the 
gates  of  hell  would  have  no  power  over 
us  if  we  would  but  be  obedient  unto 
him.  If  we  properly  teach  our  children 
to  do  what  is  right,  the  allurements  of 
the  world  need  not  have  any  great  effect 
upon  them.  We  need  not  have  such 
great  fears  if  we  teach  them  properly 
and  convert  them  and  help  them  to  ob- 
tain a  testimony  of  the  Gospel,  because 
that  testimony  will  be  a  fortification  for 
them,  a  great  defense  against  the  temp- 
tations and  the  allurements  of  the  world. 

So,  in  our  homes  we  endeavor  to 
teach  our  young  people  properly.  We 
have  our  Home  Evenings.  We  sit  down 
and  talk  with  them  and  teach  them  ob- 
jectively. We  teach  our  children  as  we 
attend  recreational  events.  We  set  them 
a  proper  example. 

We  do  all  we  can  to  convert  them  to 


76  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  7 

the  Gospel.  But  as  we  do  so,  we  must 
have  help  from  the  Church.  We  must 
have  full  cooperation  from  our  brothers 
and  sisters  in  the  auxiliaries  and  the 
priesthood  quorums  so  that  in  very 
deed,  with  the  Church  and  the  home 
working  together,  we  may  accomplish 
the  great  purpose  we  have  in  mind. 

As  President  McKay  explained,  a 
Committee  of  the  Twelve,  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  has 
been  studying  the  problem  of  how  to 
help  you  in  your  homes  and  your 
Church  organizations  better  to  give  the 
young  people  of  the  Church  an  apprecia- 
tion of  the  standards  of  the  Church,  that 
they  may  love  them  better,  that  they 
may  uphold  them  and  sustain  them. 

As  we  studied  the  matter  over,  and 
as  we  considered  the  allurements  of  the 
advertising,  we  felt  that  we  could  use 
advertising  methods  to  good  advantage 
in  our  program.  By  using  the  skill  and 
the  devices  that  are  available  through 
advertising  and  through  the  work  of 
wonderful  Latter-day  Saint  men  in  ad- 
vertising, we  hoped  to  be  of  some  as- 
sistance in  helping  our  young  people, 
just  at  a  glance  at  times,  to  catch  a  new 
view  of  the  beauties  of  the  standards 
of  the  Church. 

So,  as  we  talked  it  over  as  a  Com- 
mittee, we  thought  we  would  like  to 
present  to  our  young  people  a  series  of 
advertisements  in  an  attractive  way  so 
that  they  could  catch  more  of  the 
spirit  and  the  beauty  of  the  standards 
of  the  Church,  and  have  something  to 
reinforce  them  in  their  resistance  to 
the  temptations  of  the  world.  As  we 
talked  about  the  possibilities,  we  realized 
that  we  would  need  professional  as- 
sistance. 

One  day  we  invited  Brother  David 
W.  Evans,  who  has  a  splendid  adver- 
tising agency  which  operates  in  many 
parts  of  the  United  States,  to  come  and 
sit  in  with  us  and  discuss  the  matter. 
We  told  him  about  our  idea,  and  asked 
if  he  would  cooperate  with  his  wonder- 
ful organization.  He,  like  every  other 
Latter-day  Saint,  responded  wonder- 
fully to  the  call  and  said  that  he  would 
be  glad  to  give  us  any  time  that  he 
could,  and  give  us  the  facilities  of  his 
organization  in  working  out  a  cam- 
paign. 

So  as  we  talked  further,  and  he  told 


Second  Day 

us  about  an  artist  he  has  working  for 
him — Dale  Kilburn — who  did  some 
beautiful  work.  He  showed  us  some  of 
the  things  Brother  Kilburn  had  done, 
and  the  result  was  that  Brother  David 
W.  Evans  and  members  of  his  staff  and 
Dale  Kilburn  cooperated  in  preparing 
for  us  the  advertisements  we  hope  to 
present  to  the  Church. 

It  is  our  thought  that  we  shall  give  an 
advertisement  in  poster  form  to  every 
ward  in  the  Church  once  every  two 
months,  so  that  the  poster  would  stand 
in  a  good  place  in  the  meeting  house 
for  a  two-month  period.  These  beauti- 
ful posters — and  they  are  beautiful — 
will  need  to  be  well  displayed.  Unless 
they  are  properly  displayed  they  will 
lose  much  of  their  value,  and  we  are 
asking,  therefore,  that  a  proper  display 
be  made  in  each  one  of  the  ward  meet- 
ing houses.  These  posters  may  best  be 
displayed  in  a  glass  covered  case  that 
might  be  placed  upon  the  wall  in  the 
foyer  of  a  meeting  house. 

We  realize  that  you  do  not  have 
such  a  case,  but  as  we  talked  with 
Brother  Lee  about  it,  Brother  Lee  sug- 
gested that  here  would  be  an  excellent 
priesthood  project.  The  Church  serv- 
ice committee  of  the  elders'  quorums  in 
every  ward  has,  in  connection  with  its 
activities,  the  anti  liquor-tobacco  pro- 
gram. Brother  Lee  suggests  that  a  pro- 
ject be  given  to  each  Church  service  com- 
mittee of  each  elders'  quorum  to  pro- 
vide a  case  such  as  we  speak  of  for  each 
ward  in  the  stake — a  glass  front,  a 
wooden  frame,  a  proper  back  to  which 
may  be  attached  these  posters. 

We  believe  this  will  be  a  very  good 
priesthood  quorum  project  under  the  di- 
rection of  the  Church  service  committee. 
If  you  will  immediately  begin  on  the 
construction  of  these  cases  and  have 
them  ready  by  the  middle  of  May,  then 
we  will  begin  the  presentation  of  these 
posters  on  the  first  of  June,  or  very 
shortly  thereafter.  Keep  in  mind  that 
the  poster  will  stay  up  for  two  months, 
and  then  we  will  give  you  another  one. 

Before  I  describe  the  posters  further, 
I  should  like  to  have  the  lights  out, 
and  we  will  show  our  pictures  on  the 
screen.  For  the  sake  of  those  in  the 
building  who  cannot  see,  or  those  who 
are  in  other  buildings,  I  will  describe 
the  pictures  as  well  as  I  can. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


77 


Isn't  that  a  beautiful  poster?  The  en- 
tire approach  is  positive.  We  will  not 
make  any  kind  of  a  negative  approach 
in  connection  with  this  program.  Every- 
thing will  be  positive  teaching.  You 
will  see  here  the  first  poster  we  have  in 
mind.  It  is  entitled,  "Virtue  is  Its  Own 
Reward."  There  is  an  excellent  picture 
of  a  young  bride  and  her  groom,  who, 
having  lived  a  beautiful,  virtuous,  clean 
life,  now  may  go  into  marriage  with  all 
of  the  rewards  that  come  from  a  pure, 
clean  life. 

You  will  notice  that  at  the  bottom  of 
the  poster  we  have  the  expression:  "Be 
Honest  With  Yourself."  That  will  be- 
come the  theme  of  the  entire  series,  and 
will  appear  on  each  of  the  posters. 

The  poster,  as  you  see,  carries  a  great 
message  by  itself,  and  we  believe  that  as 
young  people  see  the  poster,  just  at  a 
glance  they  will  catch  the  idea,  and  they 
will  be  taught  in  a  moment.  But  for 
those  who  will  pause,  we  will  have  an 
addition  to  the  poster,  as  will  be  seen 
now  on  the  next  picture.  It  will  be  a 
side-piece.  At  the  top  you  will  see  the 
same  bride  and  groom,  the  same  expres- 
sion, "Virtue  is  Its  Own  Reward."  At 
the  very  bottom  you  will  notice  that  we 
have  again,  "Be  Honest  With  Your- 
self." The  message  is  this: 

"Virtue  is  its  own  reward,  and  these 
are  its  rewards:  peace  of  mind,  the  love 
of  loved  ones,  a  good  name,  a  quiet 
conscience,  the  confidence  of  family  and 
friends,  the  strength  of  personal  purity, 
the  trust  of  your  children,  the  sense  of 
purpose  in  life  here,  an  assurance  of 
everlasting  life  with  those  you  love,  and 
of  peace  and  limitless  progress  here- 
after. All  this  is  yours  for  keeping  the 
commandments.  Be  true  to  your  friends, 
your  family,  your  Father  in  Heaven. 
In  other  words,  Be  Honest  With  Your- 
self." 

I  was  so  thankful  for  what  President 
McKay  said  yesterday  about  being  loyal 
to  ourselves,  because  this  entire  program 
will  tie  in  with  his  suggestion.  We  will 
teach  our  children  to  be  honest  with 
themselves. 

In  the  next  picture  you  will  see  how 
the  two  will  be  displayed  together — the 
main  poster  on  the  one  side,  and  the 
additional  piece  on  the  other.  That  is 
the  way  it  will  appear  in  the  display 
case  we  are  asking  the  priesthood  quo- 


rums to  provide  in  each  ward.  This 
will  come,  as  we  say,  once  every  two 
months,  each  time  with  a  new  theme. 

As  we  talked  about  this  still  further, 
we  decided  it  would  be  a  wonderful 
thing  not  only  to  display  this  poster  in 
the  lobby  or  the  foyer  of  a  meeting 
house,  but  we  thought  it  would  be  a 
wonderful  thing  to  give  to  each  young 
person  in  the  ward  from  12  to  20  this 
poster  in  miniature,  with  a  beautiful 
message  on  the  reverse  side — something 
they  could  put  in  their  pockets  and 
carry  home,  something  beautiful  enough 
so  that  they  could  set  it  on  their  dresser, 
something  that  they  would  be  glad  to 
read  over  with  their  friends.  So  we 
decided  that  we  would  use  the  main 
picture  of  the  bride  and  the  groom  with 
the  large  caption:  "Virtue  Is  Its  Own 
Reward,"  and  then  the  theme  at  the 
bottom,  "Be  Honest  With  Yourself," 
as  the  face  of  this  card,  which  will  be 
approximately  postcard  size. 

Then,  as  we  show  you  in  the  next 
picture,  on  the  opposite  side  will  be  a 
message:  "Virtue  is  its  own  reward. 
There  is  more  to  marriage  than  music 
and  moonlight.  There  is  trust  and 
sharing,  and  being  loved  and  deserving 
to  be.  There  is  companionship  through 
years  of  growing  old  together,  and  to 
each  partner  in  an  honest  marriage 
there  will  come  a  time  when  nothing 
will  be  more  important  than  personal 
purity,  and  it  will  not  be  just  at  some 
passing  hour,  but  day  after  day,  year 
after  year,  as  long  as  you  look  at  your 
loved  ones,  as  long  as  you  can  feel  in 
reality  or  in  memory  the  small  hand 
of  a  son  or  daughter  as  it  closes  around 
your  finger.  You,  each  of  you,  should 
take  no  less  to  marriage  than  personal 
purity.  You  have  a  right  to  expect  it 
of  the  companion  you  choose.  You  have 
a  sacred  obligation  to  keep  it  and  to 
offer  it  in  return.  The  rewards  of  virtu- 
ous living  are  rich  and  enduring,  but 
the  price  of  sin  runs  high.  The  re- 
ward of  virtue  is  a  quiet  conscience,  the 
right  to  answer  every  question  without 
reservation,  the  right  to  look  every  man 
squarely  in  the  eye,  and  every  boy  and 
girl  and  woman  also,  without  an  ac- 
cusing conscience.  It  is  the  right  to 
pass  on  to  your  children  and  your  chil- 
dren's children  a  clean  record,  a  clean 
heritage,  a  good  name.    You  cannot 


78 

Saturday,  April  7 

cheat,  you  cannot  avoid  consequences, 
so  be  virtuous.  Be  honest  with  your- 
self." 

In  order  to  insure  a  proper  distribu- 
tion of  these  cards  so  that  every  boy 
and  girl,  active  or  inactive,  from  the  ages 
12  to  20  in  every  ward  and  branch  in 
all  the  stakes  of  the  Church,  shall  re- 
ceive a  card  like  this,  we  are  now  going 
to  the  bishops.  The  bishop  is  the  head 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  the 
bishop  has  a  counselor  who  is  assigned 
to  work  with  the  YWMIA  on  the  LDS 
Girls'  Program.  We  are  asking  each 
one  of  you  as  bishop,  when  these  cards 
are  delivered  to  your  ward,  to  see  to  it 
that  every  boy  in  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood, and  every  boy  of  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood age  who  is  not  ordained  to  any 
priesthood,  receives  one  of  these  cards. 

Then,  through  your  counselor  who  is 
associated  with  the  LDS  Girls'  Program 
in  the  YWMIA,  we  ask  that  you  see  to 
it  that  every  girl,  active  or  inactive,  in 
that  age  group,  receives  one  of  these 
cards  so  that  it  may  be  read  and  under- 
stood, and  possibly  be  of  help  in  con- 
verting them  to  be  clean. 

In  the  next  picture  we  show  you  an- 
other poster — a  very  happy  looking 
young  couple,  a  boy  and  a  girl,  and  the 
expression,  "Healthy,  Happy,  Lucky 
You.    Be  Honest  With  Yourself." 

In  the  next  picture  we  will  show  you 
the  side-piece  that  goes  with  it,  which 
reads:  "Healthy,  Happy,  Lucky  You. 
Lucky  is  he  who  learns  from  his  parents 
and  the  Church  that  health  and  happi- 
ness come  with  clean  living,  that  some 
things  should  be  left  alone,  not  to  be 
touched  or  tampered  with.  We  have 
one  mind,  and  one  earthly  body  which 
must  last  a  lifetime.  Our  Maker 
planned  it  that  way.  He  knows  what 
is  good  for  us.  That  is  why  he  has 
given  us  commandments,  not  left  us 
alone  in  our  search  for  happiness. 
Lucky  is  he  who  does  not  have  to  learn 
everything  the  hard  way,  the  painful 
way,  too  often  when  it  is  nearly  too 
late.  Be  smart.  Be  clean.  Be  happy. 
Be  healthy.    Be  honest  with  yourself." 

When  these  two  are  put  together,  they 
will  be  displayed  in  your  display  case. 
At  that  same  time  we  will  distribute 
small  cards  based  on  this  theme. 

Our  next  picture  shows  a  lovely  young 
lady  before  a  mirror,  combing  her  hair. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  caption  is,  "Beauty  Is  More  Than 
Skin  Deep,"  and  then  again,  our  theme, 
"Be  Honest  With  Yourself."  The  side- 
piece,  which  is  shown  in  the  next  pic- 
ture, reads  like  this:  "Beauty  is  more 
than  skin  deep,"  and  may  I  say  that 
this  is  just  as  much  a  message  to  boys, 
who  should  have  the  proper  measure 
of  beauty,  as  it  is  to  girls. 

"What  is  beauty?  Who  can  have  it? 
Ask  John  Robert  Powers,  famous  beauty 
authority.  He  will  tell  you,  though  it 
sounds  trite.  It  is  the  glow  of  health,  a 
radiant  personality,  a  complete  self 
assurance  and  naturalness,  intellectual 
curiosity  and  integrity.  To  sum  it  up, 
beauty  is  largely  a  matter  of  the 
thoughts  we  think,  the  deeds  we  do,  the 
food  we  eat,  the  interest  we  show  in 
others.  It  is  the  sum  of  sincerity,  en- 
thusiasm, and  unselfishness.  It  is  obedi- 
ence to  the  laws  of  good  and  wise  and 
unselfish  living.  It  is  the  reflections  of 
what  we  are  inside  ourselves.  So  if  you 
would  be  beautiful,  be  honest  with  your- 
self," so  reads  the  side  piece.  And  then 
cards  will  be  based  upon  that  theme 
also,  for  individual  distribution. 

In  our  next  picture  we  have  some- 
thing based  on  Emily  Post:  a  young 
couple  out  for  the  evening  being  offered 
drinks  by  the  host.  The  caption  at  the 
top  says,  "The  Guest,  the  Host,  and 
Emily  Post."  The  side-piece  shown  in 
the  next  picture  reads  like  this:  "When 
your  host  invites  you  to  have  a  drink, 
or  take  a  cigarette,  what  is  the  proper 
answer?  When  you  are  offered  things 
you  don't  want,  Emily  Post  says  it's 
proper  to  say  'No,  thank  you.'  The 
obligation  of  courtesy  is  not  that  of  the 
guest,  but  of  the  host  and  hostess. 
Wanting  to  be  popular  is  natural,  but 
when  an  inner  voice  says,  'Don't  do 
that,  it  is  wrong,'  then  say  no  and  hang 
on  to  that  no.  So  it's  not  only  proper, 
it's  wise  to  say,  'No,  thank  you.'  Be 
honest  with  yourself." 

Our  next  picture  is  based  on  the  value 
of  prayer.  This  picture  shows  George 
Washington,  Abraham  Lincoln,  and 
President  Eisenhower  in  the  background, 
and  then  in  the  foreground  a  family 
group.  At  the  top  we  read,  "Great 
Men  Pray,"  and  again  at  the  bottom, 
"Be  Honest  With  Yourself." 

In  our  next  view  on  the  screen  the 
side-piece  is  shown,  and  it  reads  like 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


79 


this:  "Great  and  wise  men  and  women 
of  all  ages  have  sought  and  received 
help  through  prayer,  and  all  these  are 
proper  petitions  to  an  understanding 
Father  in  Heaven:  the  trust  of  a  child 
at  his  mother's  knee,  the  prayer  of  a 
father  for  the  return  of  a  wayward  son, 
the  students'  honest  seeking  for  answers, 
a  young  man's  reverent  request  for 
strength  to  do  his  best  in  a  ball  game 
or  business  venture,  the  young  woman's 
plea  for  guidance  in  choosing  a  hus- 
band. Do  you  ever  need  help  from  a 
higher  source?  Then  follow  the  ex- 
ample of  the  great  and  good  of  all  the 
ages.  Ask  and  receive.  Pray.  Be  hon- 
est with  yourself." 

Brethren,  we  are  planning  to  continue 
this  program  for  some  time.  The  artist 
has  in  mind  painting  such  additional 
ones  as  representations  of  modesty,  in 
dress  and  actions,  and  other  such  sub- 
jects. 

Now,  brethren,  as  these  posters  and 
cards  come  to  you,  you  will  be  getting 
additional  support.  We  are  going  to  ask 
the  publishers  of  all  of  the  Church  pub- 
lications, the  magazines  and  the  Church 
Section  of  the  Deseret  News,  to  give  us 
a  full  page,  once  a  month.  During  the 
month  when  the  posters  appear  new  we 
will  place,  with  their  permission,  a  full- 
page  display  tied  in  with  the  current 
poster.  We  are  having  written  up  a 
series  of  success  stories  from  the  lives 
of  true  Latter-day  Saint  men  who  have 
made  good  in  a  big  way  in  big  business 


or  in  the  professions,  still  maintaining 
their  standards.  The  theme  will  be  that 
they  are  succeeding  not  in  spite  of,  but 
with  the  assistance  of,  their  observance 
of  the  standards  of  the  Church.  This 
human  interest  story  based  on  the  stand- 
ards of  the  Church  will  come  in  the 
alternate  months  in  between  the  plac- 
ing of  the  new  posters. 

The  MIA  have  already  pledged  to  us 
their  assistance,  and  they  will  give  us 
a  further  follow-through  at  their  June 
Conference.  The  Presiding  Bishopric, 
who  have  helped  us  in  this  planning, 
particularly  Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin, 
will  give  us  their  support  for  our  pro- 
gram. The  other  organizations,  al- 
though not  yet  contacted,  are  always 
similarly  cooperative. 

Brethren,  we  humbly  ask  that  each 
one  of  you  cooperate  with  this  positive 
effort  to  teach  good  Latter-day  Saint 
standards  to  the  young  people  of  the 
Church.  We  believe  that  by  these 
positive  methods  we  can  help  them  to 
realize  that  to  help  them  succeed  most 
in  the  earth,  they  will  desire  to  keep 
the  standards  of  the  Church,  and  that 
this  may  be  is  our  humble  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


1 cannot  express  in  words,  my  breth- 
ren, the  honor  that  is  paid  me  by 
President  McKay  in  asking  me  to 
address  you  this  evening.  I  feel  very 
much  indebted  to  him.  I  was  eight 
years  of  age  when  he  entered  the  Quo- 
rum of  the  Twelve,  and  I  have  grown 
up  through  most  of  my  life  always  re- 
membering him  as  an  Apostle  of  the 
Lord. 

It  was  he  who  called  me  on  the  phone 
one  day  in  April  of  1945  and  invited  me 
to  come  to  the  Conference  and  take  my 
place  in  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 
There  have  been  times  when  I  have 


needed  to  be  rebuked,  as  I  guess  all  men 
do.  I  shall  never  protest  as  long  as 
those  I  receive  in  the  future  are  as  gen- 
tle as  those  President  McKay  has  given 
me,  for  he  always  leaves  me  built  up 
and  strengthened  when  he  calls  atten- 
tion to  the  errors  which  have  been  made. 

President  McKay,  I  should  like  you 
to  know  that  my  own  personal  feeling 
toward  you  is  one  of  deep  devotion,  and 
toward  your  family  likewise.  I  think 
I  have  no  greater  love  for  any  man  than 
I  do  for  your  brother,  Thomas,  who  has 
been  to  me  always  a  friend,  often  in 
time  of  need. 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  7 

I  should  like  to  indulge  myself  for  a 
moment,  and  ask  you  to  indulge  me,  in 
an  imaginary  thing.  I  should  like  to 
have  you  imagine  with  me  that  we  have 
gone  back  136  years.  I  imagine  myself 
to  be  a  member  of  a  family,  newly 
moved  into  New  York  State,  by  the 
name  of  Smith. 

We  were  having  a  hard  time.  Father 
had  contracted  for  some  land.  It  was 
heavily  forrested.  It  is  no  easy  thing 
to  cut  down  hardwood  trees  of  diameter 
from  three  to  four  feet,  and  yet  that  was 
our  lot  if  we  expected  to  clear  the  land 
and  make  a  farm  out  of  it.  We  pro- 
gressed slowly  by  hard  work. 

On  one  particular  clear  sunshiny  day 
in  early  spring,  when  the  buds  were 
starting  to  come  out  a  little,  a  rare 
thing  in  New  York  state  in  that  season 
of  the  year,  I  had  been  sent  to  clear 
in  the  lower  bottom  land,  and  having 
spent  the  whole  day  there,  did  not  have 
much  connection  with  the  family.  I 
came  home  that  evening  in  time  for 
supper  and  gathered  with  the  family 
around  the  table.  Our  usual  custom 
was  to  have  a  verse  of  Scripture  and  a 
prayer  over  the  food,  and  then  to  in- 
dulge ourselves  in  conversation  con- 
cerning religion.  We  had  good  cause, 
because  at  that  moment  there  were  in 
the  town  four  ministers  representing 
four  churches,  all  of  them  pleading  with 
us  to  be  saved  and  to  accept  Christ. 

My  mother  and  my  brother,  Hyrum, 
had  felt  they  would  like  to  espouse  the 
cause  of  the  Presbyterian  Church,  and 
so  indicated.  Myself,  I  favored  the 
Methodist  Church.  I  thought  that  was 
nearer  to  what  I  considered  Christ  to 
be.  But  we  were  a  loyal  family  and 
we  did  not  ever  quarrel  over  these 
things.  It  was  all  happy  conversation, 
reason  was  given,  Scripture  was  quoted, 
and  we  had  a  good  laugh  whenever  we 
came  to  a  difference  we  could  not  re- 
solve. 

After  the  supper  was  cleared  away, 
my  father  said  to  us  children,  "Gather 
around  the  fire.  We  have  something 
important  to  have  you  hear."  And  so 
we  gathered,  and  after  we  were  seated 
in  the  various  chairs  and  on  the  floor, 
my  mother  gently  rocking  in  her  favorite 
rocking  chair  with  her  knitting  in  her 
lap,  my  father  said: 

"Now,  Joseph,"  and  then  I  saw  my 


Second  Day 

younger  brother  stand.  I  noticed  he  had 
been  a  little  quiet  during  the  evening. 
Now  he  spoke.  He  told  us  what  we  all 
know  so  well  about  his  experience  of 
the  morning.  He  told  us  it  was  a  vi- 
sion. A  remarkable  thing  occurred  to 
me.  In  my  heart  as  I  heard  him  speak 
I  had  no  more  doubt  about  religion. 
There  was  no  argument  in  my  mind. 
Somehow,  without  any  thought,  without 
any  analysis,  I  knew  he  spoke  the  truth. 
I  did  not  have  to  analyze  it.  I  did  not 
want  to  analyze  it.  There  was  no  need 
for  it.    I  was  sure. 

As  I  remember  back,  it  seems  to  me 
that  each  of  my  brothers  and  sisters 
were  equally  sure.  I  think  the  whole 
thing — the  whole  explanation — was 
summed  up  by  my  father  when  he  said, 
in  his  quiet  way,  "Boys  and  girls,  it  is 
of  God."  That  seemed  to  be  the  feeling 
of  all  of  us. 

I  experienced  also  a  new  feeling  to- 
ward Joseph.  In  my  eyes,  suddenly, 
though  he  was  but  a  boy,  he  seemed 
to  assume  the  stature  of  a  man,  and  I 
had  equal  confidence,  as  I  had  of  the 
sureness  of  his  vision,  that  he  had  the 
stature  and  would  grow  to  fill  it  in  such 
a  way  that  he  could  always  carry  the 
burdens  which  the  Lord  was  placing 
upon  him. 

The  passing  years  have  done  nothing 
to  change  my  feelings  in  that  respect. 
He  did  measure  up.  For  the  first  time, 
I  guess,  since  the  history  in  the  days  of 
Christ,  we  had  found  the  truth  about 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  which  is  now 
so  clearly  testified  of  in  the  Scriptures. 
Up  until  that  time  the  Father  and  Son 
relationship  had  been  a  mystery.  But 
another  thing  we  also  learned:  we 
learned  the  true  feeling  which  comes 
when  the  Holy  Ghost  bears  witness  of 
the  truth,  for  that,  my  brethren,  was  also 
a  part  of  the  revelation  that  day. 

You  see,  it  could  not  very  well  be  that 
the  Father  and  the  Son  could  come 
and  reveal  themselves  to  a  boy  and  have 
the  world  believe  that  boy  unless  the 
third  member  of  the  Grand  Presidency 
of  Heaven  also  played  his  part  and  bore 
witness  to  our  souls  with  such  sureness 
we  could  not  fail  to  accept  the  fact 
that  what  he  said  was  true.  It  was  the 
still,  small  voice,  not  loud,  not  con- 
tentious.  We  just  knew. 

Thank  you  for  your  patience  in  this 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


81 


imaginary  excursion.  My  brethren,  that 
great  revelation  of  two  glorious  Beings, 
and  the  testimony  of  its  truth,  witnessed 
by  the  Holy  Ghost — has  been  the  basis 
of  this  Church.  The  strength  we  have 
today  of  a  million  and  three  hundred 
and  fifty  thousand,  our  immense  out- 
lay of  buildings  and  the  vast  numbers 
of  you  of  the  Priesthood,  is  because  all 
of  us  have  also  had  borne  in  upon  our 
souls  that  same,  still,  small,  quiet,  wit- 
ness that  indeed  the  events  did  tran- 
spire; that  indeed  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet;  and  indeed  carried  his  work  to 
the  satisfaction  of  his  Father  in  Heaven, 
and  we  know  by  the  same  whispering 
of  the  spirit  that  his  keys  are  held  by 
President  McKay  and  those  who  asso- 
ciate with  him  as  prophets  and  seers 
and  revel  ators. 


That  is  my  testimony  also,  in  the 
name  of  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  congregation  will  now  sing,  "Do 
What  Is  Right,"  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting. 


The  Chorus  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do  What 
Is  Right,"  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  will 
now  speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CEARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren:  Again  in  this  semi- 
annual Priesthood  Meeting,  I  am 
privileged  and  honored  to  be  asked 
to  say  a  few  words  to  you.  I  hope  that 
you  will  aid  me,  that  the  things  that 
I  wish  to  say,  have  thought  I  might  say, 
will  seem  to  be  appropriate,  and  that 
I  may  be  led  either  along  that  line  or 
some  other.  I  know  in  part  the  value 
of  your  prayers.  I  know  in  part  the 
power  of  the  Priesthood.  I  know  in 
part  the  power  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 
And  these  things  I  invoke  at  this  time. 

If  Brother  Young  will  permit  me,  I 
should  just  like  to  make  one  observa- 
tion. You  know,  if  I  canot  accept  this 
First  Vision,  I  do  not  see  how  I  can  be 
regarded  as  a  member  of  this  Church. 
I  do  not  see  any  alternative  to  that,  be- 
cause it  is  elemental.  There  are  some, 
in  numbers  I  am  sure  few,  in  position 
of  some  importance,  who  seem  to  think 
that  the  Church  is  a  great  social  organ- 
ization and  such  it  is,  and  if  that  were 
all  it  is  I  suppose  it  would  be  worth  be- 
longing to,  but  the  Church  is  that  and 
far,  far  more.  The  social  activity,  the 
economic  set  up  of  the  Church  is  most 
important,  but  without  the  First  Vision 
and  all  that  flows  from  it,  this  Church 
as  we  know  it,  would  never  have  been 
built,  would  not  now  exist,  and  would 
have  been  but  a  memory. 


You  know,  of  course,  I  cannot  think 
for  anybody  else  but  myself  but  I  be- 
lieve that  if  I  held  that  erroneous  view 
which  I  have  named,  I  would  have  the 
courage,  the  ordinary,  everyday  honesty 
publicly  to  proclaim  myself  and  ask  to 
be  relieved  of  my  membership.  That  is 
the  way  I  would  feel. 

Now,  I  am  sure  the  brethren  who  are 
still  waiting  here,  President  McKay 
and  President  Richards,  have  much  that 
they  want  to  say,  and  I  have  only  one 
or  two  points  that  I  would  like  to 
mention.  What  I  am  going  to  say 
now  I  cannot  be  too  sure  about,  and  I 
do  not  give  you  these  things  that  I 
shall  read  to  you,  tell  you  about,  as 
being  actual  facts.  But  I  think  they  are 
fairly  accurate.  Compared  with  the 
most  numerous,  that  is  the  Church  with 
the  most  membership  in  the  United 
States,  we  stand  as  one  to  24,  by  which 
I  mean  that  the  largest  is  twenty-four 
times  plus  larger  than  are  we. 

However,  when  it  comes  to  the  Priest- 
hood, the  situation  is  very  different.  In 
the  United  States,  according  to  our  best 
figures,  there  are  165,000  holding  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood;  there  are  143,- 

000  bearing  the  Aaronic  Priesthood;  a 
total  of  309,000. 

Now  I  cannot  be  sure  about  the  figures 

1  shall  give  you  next,  but  the  best  I  have 


82 

Saturday,  April  7 

been  able  to  obtain  would  show  that 
they,  that  other  Church,  of  which  we 
are  only  l/24th  as  large,  has  only 
54,344  priests.  That  gives  us  5.6  bearers 
of  the  Priesthood  to  their  one. 

Now  if  you  add  in  to  that  number  of 
theirs,  those  who  belong  to  their  Semi- 
naries, who  as  I  understand  are  not  yet 
bearers  of  their  Priesthood,  and  so 
should  not  be  included,  but  including 
them,  it  appears  that  we  have  3.5  bear- 
ers of  the  Priesthood  to  one  with  them. 
Yet  they  are  perhaps  24  times  larger 
than  are  we. 

Brother  Mark  Petersen  quoted  some 
scriptures,  and  I  would  like,  if  Mark 
will  permit  it  to  quote  them.  The  Lord 
told  Moses,  you  will  find  this  in  Exodus 
19:6: 

"And  ye  shall  be  unto  me  a  kingdom 
of  priests,  and  an  holy  nation.  These 
are  the  words  which  thou  shalt  speak 
unto  the  children  of  Israel." 

And  then  as  Peter  has  quoted  it  and 
enlarged  it,  Brother  Mark: 

"But  ye  are  a  chosen  generation,  a 
royal  priesthood,  an  holy  nation,  a  pe- 
culiar people;  that  ye  should  shew  forth 
the  praises  of  him  who  hath  called  you 
out  of  darkness  into  his  marvellous 
light."  (I  Peter  2:9.) 

I  am  sure  there  is  no  other  Church  on 
this  earth  that  has  the  proportion  of 
Priesthood  to  total  membership  that  we 
have.  The  plan  which  the  Father  had 
for  Israel  could  not  be  carried  out  be- 
cause they  refused  to  receive  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,  and  the  Lord  took 
the  Priesthood  and  then  Moses  out  of 
their  midst  and  left  them  with  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood. 

Now  the  lesson  I  would  like  to  get  out 
of  this  situation,  is  what  a  tremendous 
advantage  not  only,  do  we  have  over 
any  other  church,  I  think  I  may  safely 
say  in  the  world,  but  I  would  like  to 
point  out  to  you  we  have  a  correspond- 
ing responsibility,  a  responsibility  that 
we  cannot  escape.  We  have  been  made 
in  general  language,  a  kingdom  of 
priests,  a  priesthood  kingdom.  The  Lord 
so  looks  at  us,  I  am  sure,  and  I  am  sure 
he  will  hold  us  responsible. 

I  wonder,  well  organized  as  we  are 
(years  ago  when  the  German  Army  was 
regarded  as  the  best  drilled  and  best 
officered  and  best  organized  army  in  the 
world,  we  used  to  hear  that  an  appraisal 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

of  us  was  to  this  effect)  whether  we  are 
as  well  organized  as  the  German  Army. 
Our  organization  is  perfect.  We  can 
have  no  excuse,  no  reason  for  failing 
to  do  what  the  Lord  expects  us  to  do, 
save  our  own  indifference,  unwilling- 
ness, or  indolence. 

Brethren,  I  think  this  is  a  tremendous 
responsibility,  and  how  shall  we  meet 
it.  I  come  back  to  the  theme  I  have 
spoken  of  ever  since  I  have  been  talking 
to  you,  unity.  I  want  to  take  time  with 
your  permission  to  read  a  part  of  per- 
haps the  greatest  prayer  of  which  we 
have  record,  that  prayer  which  was  ut- 
tered by  the  Savior  the  night  before  the 
crucifixion  after  he  and  the  disciples 
had  left  the  Upper  Chamber  and  had 
gone  out  to  the  Mount.  That  is  the 
one  in  which  near  the  beginning,  Jesus 
declared,  "And  this  is  life  eternal,  that 
they  might  know  thee  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  (John  17:3.) 

And  if  you  will  bear  with  me,  I  want 
to  read  most  of  the  rest  of  that  prayer. 
It  was  uttered  in  behalf  of  the  disciples 
by  Jesus  himself,  and  you  brethren  who 
are  here,  bearers  of  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood,  hold  precisely  the  same 
Priesthood,  enjoy,  I  think,  precisely  the 
same  rights  and  powers  and  keys  that 
were  enjoyed  by  them.  And  I  want  to 
read  you  by  way  of  recalling  to  your 
remembrance,  how  the  Lord  prayed  for 
them.  I  am  reading  from  John,  chap- 
ter 17. 

"For  I  have  given  unto  them  the 
words  (he  is  talking  to  the  Father) 
which  thou  gavest  me;  and  they  have 
received  them,  and  have  known  surely 
that  I  came  out  from  thee,  and  they 
have  believed  that  thou  didst  send  me. 

"I  pray  for  them:  I  pray  not  for  the 
world,  but  for  them  which  thou  hast 
given  me;  for  they  are  thine. 

"And  all  mine  are  thine,  and  thine 
are  mine;  and  I  am  glorified  in  them. 
(He  is  speaking  of  those,  I  repeat,  who 
hold  the  same  Priesthood  that  you 
brethren  here  before  me,  holders  of  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood,  now  possess.) 

"And  now  I  am  no  more  in  the  world, 
but  these  are  in  the  world,  and  I  come 
to  thee.  Holy  Father,  keep  through 
thine  own  name  those  whom  thou  hast 
given  me,  that  they  may  be  one,  as 
we  are. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


83 


"While  I  was  with  them  in  the  world, 
I  kept  them  in  thy  name:  those  that  thou 
gavest  me  I  have  kept,  and  none  of 
them  is  lost,  but  the  son  of  perdition; 
that  the  scripture  might  be  fulfilled. 

"And  now  come  I  to  thee;  and  these 
things  I  speak  in  the  world,  that  they 
might  have  my  joy  fulfilled  in  them- 
selves. 

"I  have  given  them  thy  word;  and 
the  world  hath  hated  them,  because 
they  are  not  of  the  world,  even  as  I 
am  not  of  the  world. 

"I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldest  take 
them  out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou 
shouldest  keep  them  from  the  evil. 

"They  are  not  of  the  world,  even  as 
I  am  not  of  the  world. 

"Sancitify  them  through  thy  truth:  thy 
word  is  truth. 

"As  thou  hast  sent  me  into  the  world, 
even  so  have  I  also  sent  them  into  the 
world. 

"And  for  their  sakes  I  sanctify  myself, 
that  they  also  might  be  sanctified 
through  truth. 

"Neither  pray  I  for  these  alone,  but 
for  them  also  which  shall  believe  on 
me  through  their  word; 

"That  they  all  may  be  one;  as  thou, 
Father,  art  in  me,  and  I  in  thee,  that 
they  also  may  be  one  in  us:  that  the 
world  may  believe  that  thou  hast  sent 
me. 

"And  the  glory  which  thou  gavest  me 


I  have  given  them;  that  they  may  be 
one,  even  as  we  are  one: 

"I  in  them,  and  thou  in  me,  that 
they  may  be  made  perfect  in  one;  and 
that  the  world  may  know  that  thou 
hast  sent  me,  and  hast  loved  them,  as 
thou  hast  loved  me. 

"Father,  I  will  that  they  also,  whom 
thou  hast  given  me,  be  with  me  where 
I  am;  that  they  may  behold  my  glory, 
which  thou  hast  given  me:  for  thou 
lovedst  me  before  the  foundation  of  the 
world. 

"O  righteous  Father,  the  world  hath 
not  known  thee:  but  I  have  known  thee, 
and  these  have  known  that  thou  hast 
sent  me. 

"And  I  have  declared  unto  them  thy 
name,  and  will  declare  it:  that  the  love 
wherewith  thou  hast  loved  me  may  be 
in  them,  and  I  in  them."  (John  17:8- 
26.) 

Brethren,  I  take  it  that  that  is  a  prayer 
offered  for  us,  just  as  applicable  to  us 
as  it  was  to  the  Apostles  in  whose  im- 
mediate behalf  Christ  was  intervening. 

May  the  Lord  give  us  the  unity,  the 
faith,  the  powers,  which  the  Lord 
prayed  that  his  Disciples  might  have,  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  will  be 
our  next  speaker. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I might  well  have  chosen  a  subject 
for  this  evening  other  than  that  on 
which  I  propose  to  dwell  had  I  not 
been  impelled  a  few  days  ago  in  con- 
templating this  meeting  to  bring  a  par- 
ticular matter  to  your  attention.  I  trust 
that  it  may  not  be  too  inappropriate  for 
this  great  occasion.  If  at  the  beginning 
it  seems  so,  please  reserve  judgment. 

I  read  in  the  newspaper  the  other  day 
an  article.  It  prompted  me  to  bring 
the  matter  here.  It  is  written  by  Judge 
Rudolph  C.  Geissler  of  Connecticut. 
Some  of  you  may  have  seen  it,  but  I 
fear  that  it  was  not  read  generally  and 
seriously,  or  I  would  not  take  the  time 
to  reproduce  at  least  part  of  it.  The 
Judge  says: 


"In  the  24  years  I  have  been  on  the 
bench,  I  have  never  given  a  speeder  a 
second  chance.  I  never  will.  If  he  is 
convicted  in  my  court  or  pleads  guilty, 
the  speeder  gets  a  fine  or  a  jail  sen- 
tence and  his  license  gets  blemished. 

"In  the  sense  that  I  adhere  strictly  to 
the  law,  I  am  a  'tough'  judge.  In  my 
opinion,  that  is  the  judge's  job.  As  a 
speeder,  you  are  one  man  in  a  traffic 
court  on  one  particular  day;  as  a  judge, 
you  are  a  witness  day  in  day  out,  by 
the  hundreds  and  thousands,  to  the 
worst  carnage  man  has  ever  known. 
Worse  than  plague.    Worse  than  war. 

"Motorists  are  inclined  to  think  that 
when  they  come  up  before  a  judge  on 
their  first  speeding  charge,  they  should 


84 

Saturday,  April  7 

be  given  a  second  chance.  They  don't 
want  that  'black  mark'  on  the  back  of 
their  driver's  license.  They  offer  ex- 
cuses. They  get  friends  of  the  judge 
to  try  to  fix  things  for  them.  They  hire 
lawyers  to  pull  strings.  What  they 
don't  understand  is  that  speed  is  their 
enemy,  not  the  court.  The  court  is 
simply  their  conscience. 

"Excuses,  entreaties,  attempts  at  in- 
fluence, I've  heard  them  all: 

"  'Judge,  I've  been  driving  for  twelve 
years  with  a  clean  record — just  give  me 
this  one  chance.' 

"  'Judge,  if  you  put  this  second  speed- 
ing on  my  license  the  company  will 
fire  me.' 

"  'Your  Honor,  I  don't  have  a  job  and 
my  kids  are  sick  and  if  you  fine  me, 
I'll  have  to  go  to  jail.' " 

Then  he  cites  the  cases  of  friends 
pleading  for  those  who  are  arrested. 

"Yes,  I've  heard  them  all,  and  I've 
turned  them  all  down.  Sometimes  it 
makes  my  heart  ache,  like  when  a  man 
is  out  of  a  job  and  is  up  against  it,  but 
I  don't  give  him  a  second  chance.  'What 
kind  of  justice  is  that?'  you  may  ask. 
'Have  you  no  compassion?  Can't  a  man 
be  forgiven  one  mistake?'  One  mistake. 
Compassion.  What  do  you  think  I  have 
seen  and  heard  during  my  24  years  on 
the  bench?  A  man  drives  at  70  miles 
per  hour  at  night  on  a  two-lane  high- 
way. He  sideswipes  another  car  going 
around  a  curve;  both  cars  spin  out  of 
control  and  crash.  Four  people  are 
dead.    That's  only  one  mistake,  isn't 

it?  ■  'ill 

"A  group  of  young  people  are  coming 
home  from  a  dance,  and  the  19-year- 
old  driver  decides  to  show  off  by  push- 
ing the  speedometer  up  to  its  limit — 
one  mistake.  A  driver  speeds  up  to 
beat  a  changing  light  at  an  intersec- 
tion— just  one  mistake. 

"The  fact  is,  that's  all  a  speeding  ac- 
cident ever  amounts  to— just  one  mis- 
take. The  vast  majority  of  serious 
collisions  involve  people,  with  'clean' 
records.  Yes,  I  have  compassion,  and 
so  do  most  other  judges,  but  the  com- 
passion is  for  the  permanently  crippled, 
the  'innocent'  corpses  in  the  other  car, 
the  children  left  without  one  or  both 
parents.  We  judges  have  to  look  at  un- 
ending photographs  of  butchered  bodies 
and  mangled  automobiles,  introduced 
into  evidence  by  police  officers — the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

mute  evidence  of  a  speeder's  one  mis- 
take." 

And  he  cites  other  instances.  Then 
he  says: 

"I  know  quite  a  lot  about  boys,  and 
I  do  think  about  them.  For  instance, 
I  think  about  those  two  young  fellows 
at  Storrs,  Conn.,  who  killed  themselves 
smashing  into  a  tree;  the  Hartford  boys 
who  wound  up  on  morgue  slabs  after 
their  car  turned  over  three  times  and 
landed  in  a  ditch;  those  four  college 
boys  who  were  doing  75  on  the  Wilbur 
Cross  Parkway — two  died  instantly  and 
two  in  the  hospital. 

"I  know  about  boys,  all  right.  I've 
got  three  sons  and  eight  grandsons,  and 
if  they  ever  start  speeding  I  only  hope 
and  pray  that  a  State  Trooper  is  there 
to  catch  them  and  that  a  judge  fines 
them  properly. 

"Here's  what  I  tell  most  young  peo- 
ple who  come  before  me  and  try  to 
talk  themselves  out  of  their  'jam.' 
'Young  man,'  I  say,  'consider  this  one 
of  the  luckiest  days  of  your  life — for 
you  have  wound  up  in  a  traffic  court 
instead  of  a  graveyard.' 

"I  recently  had  an  18-year-old  high- 
school  student  in  my  court.  He  had 
been  clocked  at  midnight  doing  80 
m.p.h.  on  a  two-lane  highway.  I  asked 
him  why  his  father  had  not  come  to 
court  with  him. 

"  'He's  here,'  the  boy  said,  'in  the  back 
of  the  court.'  I  asked  the  father  to  come 
forward. 

"  'My  son  got  himself  into  this,'  the 
father  said,  'and  he'll  have  to  get  him- 
self out  of  it.  There's  no  excuse  for 
driving  a  car  at  that  speed.' 

"  'Did  you  have  a  reason?'  I  asked 
the  boy. 

"  'Yes,  sir,'  he  answered.  'I  had  been 
up  late  several  nights  in  a  row,  so  I 
wanted  to  get  home  to  catch  up  on  my 
sleep.' 

"  'Well,'  I  said,  'you  had  a  distance 
of  twenty-five  miles  to  cover.  Now  by 
going  eighty  miles  an  hour  instead  of 
the  legal  limit  you  probably  saved  about 
fifteen  minutes.  And  in  the  process, 
you  might  have  been  killed — or  killed 
somebody  else.  Do  you  think  the  risk 
was  worth  it?' 

"  'No,  sir,'  the  boy  said.  'I  guess  not. 
I  guess  I  deserve  to  be  fined.' 

"I  noticed  the  father  perk  up  at  that, 
and  I  could  see  he  felt  a  little  better 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


85 


about  his  son's  scrape  with  the  law.  I 
admire  that  father  much  more  than  one 
who  tries  to  'protect'  his  son  by  influenc- 
ing the  judge  or  prosecutor. 

"How  can  we  slow  you  down?  How 
can  we  make  you  obey  the  speed  limit 
which  is  clearly  and  incessantly  in- 
dicated on  every  highway  in  this  coun- 
try? 

"Fines  haven't  worked. 
"Threats  haven't  worked. 
"Public  education  doesn't  seem  to  be 
working. 

"Maybe  Connecticut's  new  experi- 
ment will.  Governor  Abraham  A.  Ribi- 
coff  recently  issued  an  order  which,  as 
far  as  I  know,  is  the  most  drastic  speed 
rule  in  the  nation.  Any  one  who  ex- 
ceeds the  speed  limit  on  any  road, 
highway  or  street  in  the  state  of  Con- 
necticut now  automatically  loses  his 
driver's  license  for  30  days;  if  it  is  a 
second  conviction,  he  loses  it  for  60 
days.  And  the  regulation  applies  not 
only  to  residents  of  Connecticut,  but 
also  to  speeders  from  other  states  with 
which  Connecticut  has  reciprocity 
agreements."  (Reprinted  from  This 
Week  Magazine.  Copyright  1956  by  the 
United  Newspapers  Magazine  Corpora- 
tion.) 

Now,  I  did  not  read  this  to  advocate 
that  Governor's  recommendation.  I  do 
not  know  enough  about  it  to  know 
whether  that  is  the  best  recommenda- 
tion that  can  be  proposed.  I  read  this 
to  try  to  save  the  lives  of  some  of  our 
people.  I  notice  these  smash-ups  in  the 
paper  every  day  or  two,  and  if  it  does 
not  tell  what  Church  they  belong  to,  I 
nearly  always  follow  it  up  and  find 
where  they  are  to  be  buried  from,  and 
I  find  out  that  a  great  proportion  of  all 
those  in  this  area  are  members  of  my 
own  Church,  my  brethren  in  the 
Priesthood. 

I  know  that  some  young  folks  think 
that  they  have  freedom  to  do  what  they 
will.  They  seem  to  think  that  they 
have  freedom  to  do  with  their  lives  as 


they  desire.  They  ought  to  be  taught 
the  Lord's  words  regarding  life.  Life  is 
precious,  "For  ye  are  bought  with  a 
price:  therefore  glorify  God  in  your 
body,  and  in  your  spirit,  which  are 
God's."  (I  Cor.  6:20) 

No  man  has  the  freedom  and  the 
liberty  to  dispose  of  even  his  own  life 
and  to  be  so  careless  as  to  endanger  the 
lives  of  others. 

I  used  to  have  an  old  friend — Brother 
McKay  will  remember  him — who  was 
taken  out  of  business,  almost,  by  the 
prohibition  act.  I  remember  him  mak- 
ing a  statement  that  I  never  forgot.  He 
said,  "I  reserve  the  right  to  criticize  the 
law,  but  not  to  break  it."  As  far  as  I 
know  he  never  broke  it. 

Who  makes  the  law?  Your  repre- 
sentatives. Isn't  it  disloyal  to  them  to 
break  the  laws  they  make?  I  think  there 
is  not  only  an  element  of  disloyalty  to 
it,  but  I  know  that  it  breeds  disrespect 
for  the  law,  and  it  is  immoral  to  break 
the  laws  of  the  land. 

Life  is  too  precious.  It  is  the  greatest 
gift  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us.  We 
cannot  waste  it,  and  if  I,  by  bringing 
this  to  your  attention,  can  save  one  car- 
load of  teenagers  from  careening  into  a 
station  and  killing  them,  as  they  did 
the  other  night,  I  shall  be  grateful,  and 
therefore  I  take  the  liberty  of  bringing 
this  to  the  attention  of  my  brethren 
of  the  Priesthood  to  see  if  we  cannot 
develop  a  respect  for  the  law  which 
will  enable  us  to  avoid  many  of  these 
tragic  accidents.  My  heart  bleeds  for  the 
victims.  My  heart  bleeds  for  the  inno- 
cent victims  who  ride  along  safely  and 
are  run  into  by  these  speed  demons. 
This  Judge  has  a  whole  lot  of  good 
sense,  and  I  think  maybe  he  has  a  de- 
terrent that  will  be  helpful  in  this  great- 
est carnage  that  our  Country  has  ever 
known. 

The  Lord  bless  us,  help  us  to  preserve 
our  lives,  and  to  use  our  lives  for  the 
high  purposes  that  the  Lord  has  given 
us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


My  esteemed  fellow-workers.  I  hope 
what  I  say  now  may  not  detract 
from  the  spiritual  instructions  re- 
ceived and  the  appeals  made  for  our 
young  people.  But  there  are  a  few  sug- 


gestions to  you,  stake  officers,  stake 
presidencies  and  bishoprics  of  wards, 
which  we  hope  you  will  take  without 
comment.  I  will  just  name  them. 
1.  In  our  Handbook  of  Instructions  we 


86 

Saturday,  April  7 

read  (which  many  of  you  bishops  prob- 
ably have  not  read,  because  it  has  not 
been  reprinted) :  "Sunday  School  should 
not  be  closed  on  a  day  of  Stake  Confer- 
ence. All  classes  with  the  exception  of 
the  Gospel  Doctrine  and  other  adult 
classes,  should  remain  in  session.  This 
applies  to  every  ward  except  where  Con- 
ference is  being  held  in  a  ward  build- 
ing and  Sunday  School  and  Confer- 
ence cannot  be  accommodated  in  the 
building  at  the  same  time.  It  is  under- 
stood, however,  that  the  attendance  of 
all  members  of  the  Church,  old  and 
young,  at  Stake  Conference  shall  be 
encouraged,  and  that  a  member  of  any 
Sunday  School  class  who  desires  to  at- 
tend Stake  Conference  should  be  ex- 
cused to  do  so,  and  that  any  class  in 
the  Sunday  School  may,  under  proper 
supervision,  attend  a  Stake  Conference 
in  a  body,"  but  to  close  the  Sunday 
School  and  turn  out  a  hundred  or  sev- 
eral hundred,  young  boys  and  girls  who 
do  not  go  to  Conference  or  who  cannot 
find  seats  in  the  congregation,  is  con- 
trary to  instructions  given. 

2.  Many  wards  at  different  times  of 
the  year  decide  that  they  will  not  hold 
any  Sunday  night  meeting  on  Fast  Day. 
These  meetings  should  be  held  in  the 
interest  of  the  Auxiliaries. 

3.  This  is  very  important.  Substitu- 
tions should  not  be  made  for  our  Sac- 
rament Meetings.  Seminary  graduation 
exercises  should  be  held  at  some  other 
hour  or  on  some  weekday  night;  they 
should  not  take  the  place  of  our  Sacra- 
ment Meetings. 

And  now  just  for  a  final  message.  We 
have  been  worried,  not  for  a  few  days 
or  a  few  months,  but  for  many  years, 
over  the  problem  of  making  our  ward 
teaching  more  effective.  This  is  in  har- 
mony with  our  great  lesson  tonight — 
to  help  our  young  people  and  to  help 
those  of  our  older  ones  who  are  indiffer- 
ent. 

Tonight  I  shall  take  time  to  mention 
only  two  features. 

"The  teacher's  duty  is  to  watch  over 
the  church  always" — this  is  the  Word 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  more  closely  we 
follow  that  the  more  satisfaction  we 
shall  have  in  our  labors. 

"The  teacher's  duty  is  to  watch  over 
the  church  always,  and  be  with  and 
strengthen  them; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

"And  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity 
in  the  church,  neither  hardness  with 
each  other,  neither  lying,  backbiting, 
nor  evil  speaking; 

"And  see  that  the  church  meet  to- 
gether often,  and  also  see  that  all  the 
members  do  their  duty."  (D.  &  C. 
20:53-55) 

One  day,  when  my  brother  and  I  were 
in  our  teens,  we  were  ready  to  leave 
the  barnyard  and  go  out  to  the  field 
for  a  load  of  hay.  Father  came  out,  shut 
the  gate  behind  him,  and  then  looking 
towards  the  sidewalk,  saw  two  men 
coming  towards  the  house.  He  recog- 
nized them  as  ward  teachers,  "Al" 
Sprague  and  Eli  Tracy.  He  said,  "Boys, 
there  are  the  ward  teachers;  tie  up  your 
team  and  come  into  the  house."  Though 
we  demurred,  we  obeyed.  Seated  as  a 
family,  we  heard  our  father  say,  "Now 
brethren,  we  are  in  your  hands." 

I  give  you  the  picture.  Now  I  give 
you  what  the  teacher  said:  he  started 
with  my  father,  who  was  the  Bishop  of 
the  Ward,  and  asked  him  if  he  was 
doing  his  duty;  if  he  was  living  in  har- 
mony with  his  neighbors;  if  he  was  sus- 
taining the  authorities.  He  asked  Mother 
questions  about  doing  her  duty,  and  he 
went  from  the  parents  to  each  child 
who  sat  around  in  that  meeting. 

Those  teachers  emphasized  one  part 
of  their  duty.  First,  Father  submitted 
himself  to  them,  for  they  came  as  his 
representatives  and  would  be  in  every 
house.  Their  duty  was  to  see  that  "each 
member  does  his  duty."  Now  that  takes 
tact  and  some  of  you  say  for  teachers 
so  to  question  the  people  gives  offense. 
I  grant  you  all  that,  and  I  am  not 
going  to  discuss  it.  But  the  Lord  has 
asked  you  to  do  just  that  thing.  How 
you  do  it,  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord 
must  prompt. 

Now  tonight  I  should  like  to  empha- 
size another  phase  of  ward  teaching — 
"watching  over  the  Church  always." 

The  teacher's  duty  is  not  performed 
when  he  goes  only  once  a  month  to 
each  house.  I  remember  when  one 
Bishop  made  it  a  duty  of  the  ward 
teacher  to  go  at  once  to  a  house  be- 
reaved of  a  loved  one  and  see  what 
could  be  done  in  order  to  bring  com- 
fort to  those  who  were  grieving  and 
to  make  arrangements  for  the  funeral. 
It  is  the  teacher's  duty  to  see  that 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


87 


there  is  no  want;  if  there  is  sickness 
there,  to  go  and  administer — watching 
over  those  families  always. 

Tuesday  morning  at  the  dedication  of 
the  Los  Angeles  Temple — that  was  the 
beginning,  I  think,  of  the  fifth  session — 
we  were  entering  the  Temple  when 
somebody  said,  "There  is  an  old  lady 
coming  down  the  walk.  Evidently  she 
wants  to  see  you."  She  was  walking, 
but  she  had  to  be  helped.  We  returned 
and  met  her  just  as  she  and  her  com- 
panions came  up  the  steps  leading  to 
the  north  entrance  of  the  Temple.  We 
shook  her  hand  and  greeted  her  and 
gave  her  a  blessing  as  much  as  we 
could  in  that  short,  brief  time,  and  to 
encourage  her  said,  "Are  these  your  two 
fine  sons?"  "No,"  answered  the  one  on 
her  left,  "we  are  her  ward  teachers." 
What  a  beautiful  example  of  watching 
over  the  church  always  They  knew  the 
old  lady  wanted  to  attend  that  service. 
I  do  not  know  what  help  they  had  to 
give  her  in  order  to  bring  her  there, 
they  had  to  get  an  automobile  prob- 
ably. I  do  not  know  whether  she  had 
any  sons.  I  know  only  what  I  have  told 
you.  But  they  were  her  ward  teachers 
and  they  knew  her  needs. 

Well,  in  every  group  assigned  to  you 
ward  teachers,  there  are  young  folks 
who  are  crippled,  there  are  young  folks 
who  are  staggering,  who  need  help  mor- 
ally. Somehow,  some  way,  you  can  reach 
them  and  give  them  some  help.  Not  just 
when  you  go  to  make  a  formal  visit, 
when  you  are  sitting  there  before  the 
radio  or  the  television,  but  at  some 
party,  some  way,  wherever  they  are 
going,  get  in  their  company,  get  their 
confidence,  take  a  hold  of  their  arm — 
"watch  over  them  always." 

Those  two  things  we  can  do,  in  addi- 
tion to  what  the  bishoprics  are  now  ask- 
ing you  to  do:  teach  them  their  duty, 
watch  over  them  always  and  see  that 
they  attend  to  their  meetings. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  commend  the 
Committee  of  the  Twelve  for  the  great 
project  they  have  presented  to  us  to- 
night. You  can  see  its  value.  I  am 
sure  that  you  were  all  deeply  impressed 
with  Brother  Petersen's  message. 

These  lines  came  to  me  when  he  gave 
the  principal  theme: 

"You  ought  to  be  true  for  the  sake 


of  the  folks  who  believe  you 
are  true. 
You  never  should  stoop  to  a  deed 
that  your  friends  think  you 
wouldn't  do. 
If  you're  false  to  yourself,  be  the 

blemish  but  small, 
You  have  injured  your  friends; 
you've  been  false  to  them  all." 

(Edgar  A.  Guest) 

God  help  us  to  save  our  young  peo- 
ple, to  bring  peace  in  our  wards,  in  our 
homes,  and  in  our  hearts,  by  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God  as  He  has 
given  them  to  us  in  this  the  Latter-day 
through  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ;  given  it  to  us  by  direct 
revelation  by  the  direct  appearance  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  to  the  boy 
Prophet;  given  unto  us,  as  President 
Clark  has  explained  tonight,  the  Priest- 
hood, the  same  as  held  by  the  Apostles 
of  old. 

With  all  my  heart  I  bless  you,  fellow- 
workers  in  the  Priesthood  of  God,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Reno  Latter-day  Saints  Male 
Chorus  will  now  sing,  "Thanks  Be  to 
God."  In  your  behalf  we  thank  these 
young  men  and  their  able  leader  for 
their  presence  here  tonight  and  their 
impressive  singing.  They  are  directed 
by  Brother  Cropper. 

Elder  Roy  D.  Olpin,  president  of  the 
Millard  Stake,  will  offer  the  closing 
prayer. 

The  session  at  10:00  o'clock  Sunday 
morning  will  be  broadcast  over  station 
KSL  and  over  14  radio  stations  as 
named  heretofore.  These  services  will 
also  be  televised  over  KSL-TV,  channel 
5,  and  by  special  arrangements  over  18 
television  stations  in  Idaho,  Washing- 
ton, California,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Ne- 
vada and  Colorado. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast  will 
be  from  8:00  until  8:30  a.m.  tomor- 
row. President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
will  be  the  speaker.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  broadcast  will  be  from  9:30  to 
10:00  a.m.  tomorrow  morning.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
broadcast  must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:15 


88 

Saturday,  April  7 

a.m.  It  is  requested,  and  we  repeat  this, 
that  the  audience  during  the  broadcast 
refrain  from  making  any  disturbance. 
Large  crowds  will  undoubtedly  be  wait- 
ing outside  the  closed  doors.  We  sug- 
gest that  those  standing  be  courteous 
when  the  doors  are  opened  and  consid- 
erate of  others  in  the  crowd.  Avoid 
pushing  or  crowding,  will  you  please. 

The  regular  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence will  begin  at  10:00  o'clock  tomor- 
row morning.  The  Reno  Male  Chorus 
will  now  sing,  "Thanks  Be  to  God." 
The  benediction  will  be  offered  by  El- 
der Roy  D.  Olpin,  president  of  the 
Millard  Stake. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

The  Reno  Latter-day  Saints  Male 
Chorus  sang  the  hymn,  "Thanks  Be  to 
God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  Priest- 
hood Meeting  tonight,  let  us  keep  in 
mind  the  timely  admonition  given  by 
President  Richards  to  drive  carefully. 


President  Roy  D.  Olpin  of  the  Mil- 
lard Stake  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning,  April  8,  at  10  o'clock  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Sunday,  April  8,  1956. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  was 
present  and  furnished  the  choral  music 
for  this  session  of  the  Conference. 

(For  a  full  report  of  the  Church  of 
the  Air  and  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
broadcast  see  pages  125-129.) 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  solemn  worship  this  Sabbath  morn- 
ing thousands  are  assembled  in  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  many  are  gath- 
ered on  the  walks  and  lawns  of  the 
grounds  listening  to  the  services  over 
the  public  address  system. 

Last  evening  there  was  held  a  large 
Priesthood  Meeting — undoubtedly  the 
largest  ever  held  in  the  Church.  This 
general  Priesthood  Meeting  was  held 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  with  over- 
flow meetings  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and 
Barratt  Hall,  and  the  proceedings  were 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  assembled  in  22  Church 
buildings  in  Utah;  12  in  Idaho;  3  in 
Wyoming,  2  in  Nevada;  1  in  Colorado; 
4  in  Washington;  3  in  Oregon;  15  in 
California;  3  in  Arizona;  1  in  Hawaii, 
or  a  total  of  66  buildings. 

For  your  interest  this  morning  we 
should  like  to  say  that  as  nearly  as  the 


ushers  could  count  there  were  assembled 
in  that  Priesthood  Meeting  approxi- 
mately 30,000  men  holding  the  Priest- 
hood. The  speakers  were  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
of  whose  message  you  will  hear  more 
throughout  the  Church;  Elder  S.  Dil- 
worth  Young  of  the  First  Council  of 
the  Seventy;  and  members  of  the  First 
Presidency. 

The  Reno  Latter-day  Saints  Male 
Chorus  furnished  the  music  under  the 
direction  of  Elder  Ladd  R.  Cropper, 
who  is  our  Institute  Director  in  the 
University  of  Nevada.  The  singing  was 
excellent,  as  was  all  that  we  have  had 
in  the  Conference. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  was 
the  speaker  on  Columbia's  Church  of 
the  Air  program  this  morning  at  8 
o'clock. 

We  are  now  assembled  in  the  Sixth 
Session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty- 
Sixth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 
Just  a  further  word  or  two  about  last 
night — I  am  sure  you  would  be  inter- 
ested in  the  following — that  here  in  the 
Tabernacle,  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt 
Hall,  and  on  the  Temple  Grounds, 
there  were  11,165  members  of  the  Priest- 
hood. In  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity there  were  2009.  Other  groups  in 
Utah:  7,000;  in  California,  3,641;  in 
Arizona,  712;  in  Colorado,  250;  Idaho, 
2,600;  Nevada,  685;  Oregon,  460;  Wash- 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


89 


ington,  593;  Wyoming,  306;  and  I  do 
not  know  how  many  in  these  telegrams 
this  morning. 

What  an  inspiration!  What  hopes 
and  assurances  we  have  for  the  future! 

These  services  are  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall,  and 
over  a  public  address  system  and  by 
television  over  18  television  stations 
operating  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Oregon,  Ne- 
vada, Arizona,  California,  Washington, 
and  Colorado,  this  morning.  We  wel- 
come you  all.  We  are  likewise  being 
heard  over  14  radio  stations  in  these 
western  states.  The  names  of  these  sta- 
tions have  already  been  mentioned  over 
KSL.  Thank  you  all.  You  have  our 
appreciation  for  the  time  and  facilities 
you  are  furnishing  for  this  great  Con- 
ference. In  behalf  of  the  membership 
of  all  the  Church  we  thank  you. 

We  welcome  the  following  special 
visitors  and  regular  members  of  the 
Church:  you  who  are  listening  in  will 
be  pleased  to  know  we  have  present 
Senator  Wallace  F.  Bennett,  Congress- 
man H.  Aldous  Dixon,  Mayor  Adiel  F. 
Stewart  of  Salt  Lake  City,  President  Er- 
nest L.  Wilkinson  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  President  A.  Ray 
Olpin  of  the  University  of  Utah,  Presi- 
dent Daryl  Chase  of  the  Utah  State  Ag- 
ricultural College,  Superintendent  E. 
Allan  Bateman,  superintendent  of  Pub- 
lic Instruction,  Superintendent  M.  Lynn 
Bennion  of  the  Salt  Lake  City  Schools, 
Brother  LaMont  Toronto,  Secretary  of 
State.  Undoubtedly  there  are  others 
whom  we  have  not  seen,  but  you  are 
all  cordially  welcomed.  It  is  glorious  to 
meet  with  you  and  have  you  partake  of 
the  spirit  of  the  Conference,  and  to  let 
us  partake  of  your  spirit  by  your  pres- 
ence here. 


The  Choir  this  morning,  as  you  al- 
ready know,  is  our  own  Tabernacle 
Choir,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  con- 
ducting, and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ,  and  as  has  been  announced 
already  by  Brother  Evans,  the  numbers 
that  they  have  sung  at  the  Broadcast 
and  the  numbers  that  will  now  be  sung 
are  from  the  Choir's  European  con- 
cert repertoire. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  by  LeRoy  Robertson,  our  own 
composer,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered 
by  Elder  Thomas  Gay  Myers,  presi- 
dent of  the  Las  Vegas  Stake. 


An  anthem,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  was 
sung  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Thomas  Gay  Myers  of  the 
Las  Vegas  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  just  offered  the  invocation  is 
Elder  Thomas  G.  Myers,  president  of 
the  Las  Vegas  Stake. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"For  Unto  Us  a  Child  Is  Born."  Fol- 
lowing the  Choir  singing,  we  shall  hear 
from  President  Stephen  L  Richards. 


Singing  by  the  Choir,  "For  Unto  Us  a 
Child  Is  Born." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  morning.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


In  the  spirit  of  the  brotherhood  and 
the  love  which  the  gospel  of  our 
Lord  inspires,  I  greet  you  this  morn- 
ing, my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends. 
The  sun  is  shining  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
bringing  with  it  good  cheer  to  those  as- 
sembled here  in  the  conference.  I  hope 
that  those  who  are  away  from  us,  and 
who  listen  in,  are  likewise  happy  and 


well,  rejoicing  in  the  blessings  that  the 
Lord  has  so  bounteously  bestowed  upon 
all. 

I  wish  to  bring  you  this  morning  a 
message  of  encouragement.  I  need  the 
aid  of  our  Father  and  his  spirit  in  so 
doing,  and  I  trust  he  will  bless  all  of 
you  likewise. 

It  is  said  that  the  Dispensation  of  the 


90 

Sunday,  April  8 

Meridian  of  Time  opened  with  the 
words:  "Repent  ye:  for  the  kingdom  of 
heaven  is  at  hand"  (Matt.  3:2)  first 
uttered  by  John  the  Baptist  and  then  by 
the  Savior  after  his  ordeal  of  fasting  and 
temptation,  when  "From  that  time  Jesus 
began  to  preach,  and  to  say,  Repent: 
for  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand." 
(Matt.  4:17.) 

It  is  interesting  to  contemplate  the 
intonation  of  voice  used  in  the  pro- 
nouncement of  these  first  portentous 
words.  I  have  heard  them  repeated  in 
tones  of  a  piercing  proclamation  to 
convey  the  impression  of  a  stern  com- 
mand and  authoritative  exhortation. 
Undoubtedly  they  were  meant  to  be  all 
three — a  penetrating  pronouncement,  a 
command,  and  an  exhortation.  But  I 
like  to  think  that  there  was  also  an 
intonation  in  the  voice  of  our  Lord,  as 
he  spoke  these  words,  indicative  of  en- 
treaty and  kindly  solicitude  to  the  erring 
ones  to  whom  the  words  were  addressed. 

A  part  of  the  mission  of  our  Savior  was 
to  bring  the  element  of  mercy  to  the 
rigorous,  exacting,  hard-hearted  people 
among  whom  his  mission  began.  When 
he  taught  forbearance  and  kindly,  merci- 
ful consideration  for  human  frailty  and 
weakness,  he  was  accused  of  violating 
and  dispensing  with  the  law.  His  reply 
to  this  accusation  was:  "Think  not  that 
I  am  come  to  destroy  the  law,  or  the 
prophets:  I  am  not  come  to  destroy,  but 
to  fulfil."  (Matt.  5:17.) 

Repentance  was  always,  and  is,  a  part 
of  the  law  and  the  gospel  plan,  and  the 
mercy  which  the  Savior  brought  is  es- 
sential to  the  doctrine  of  repentance  and 
to  the  administration  of  the  laws  of 
God.  The  fine  balance  between  the  two 
is  preserved  for  us  in  the  great  principle 
that  mercy  shall  not  rob  justice  (Alma 
42:25),  nor  justice,  mercy. 

Before  I  comment  further  on  the  prin- 
ciple of  repentance,  I  wish  to  make  it 
clear  that  I  regard  all  laws  of  the  gospel 
as  essential  in  the  plan  of  salvation, 
and  that  no  one  of  his  children  may 
hope  to  obtain  the  highest  exaltation 
in  the  celestial  kingdom  without  com- 
plying with  every  law  and  every  com- 
mandment given  of  the  Lord  for  men  to 
follow.  I  believe  also  that  the  Lord 
fully  recognizes  the  frailties  and  the 
weaknesses  of  his  children  while  they 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

undergo  mortal  probation.  He  sub- 
jected them  to  the  tests  of  mortality.  He 
gave  them  their  free  agency  to  cope  with 
its  temptations  and  problems.  He 
planted  within  them  a  sense  of  right, 
and  surrounded  them  with  his  Holy 
Spirit  to  help  them  chart  the  course  of 
their  lives,  but  he  knew  from  the  be- 
ginning that  not  all  would  have  the 
vision  and  the  strength  of  character  to 
pursue  the  straight  and  narrow  way.  He 
knew  that  many  would  succumb  to  the 
seductive  temptations  of  the  adversary 
whom  he  permitted  to  be  in  the  world 
with  his  children  to  test  and  ultimately 
to  strengthen  their  faith  and  determina- 
tion. 

So,  repentance  was  from  the  beginning 
a  necessary  part  of  the  plan.  It  was 
not  the  only  part  of  the  plan  indica- 
tive of  the  love  and  mercy  of  the  Lord. 
The  laws  and  commandments  are  them- 
selves generous  and  loving  provisions, 
formulated  by  our  Father  to  bring  to 
pass  the  greatest  possible  happiness  and 
blessing  to  his  vast  family  whom  he 
loves.  Every  single  commandment, 
stern  as  it  may  appear  to  some,  is  in 
reality  an  avenue  to  the  glorious  realm 
of  peace  and  happiness.  But  repentance 
is  an  outstanding  principle  of  mercy  and 
love  and  kindness,  attesting  the  con- 
cern and  love  of  the  Father  for  his 
children,  for  in  final  analysis,  he  gave 
his  Beloved  Son,  not  alone  to  redeem  us 
from  the  effect  of  transgressions  which 
lay  heavy  upon  the  whole  race  of  men, 
but  also  to  give  to  us  the  inexpressibly 
glorious  opportunity  of  repenting  of  our 
own  individual  transgressions  so  that  we 
might  again  come  back  into  his  pres- 
ence clean  and  forgiven,  through  the 
precious  gift  of  repentance. 

I  have  never  regarded  repentance  as 
being  a  static  thing.  It  is  difficult  to 
imagine  how  men  may  repent  once  and 
for  all  for  a  full  lifetime  of  experience. 
I  look  upon  it  as  a  progressive  principle 
applying  to  each  of  us  day  by  day.  With 
those  who  have  been  given  the  noble 
concepts  of  a  perfect  life,  there  must  be 
very  few,  if  any,  who  do  not  feel  that 
each  day  he  or  she  may  have  fallen 
short  of  the  ideal  of  perfection;  so,  each 
day,  working  toward,  but  failing  fully 
to  realize  this  lofty  goal,  each  must  feel 
the  need  for  repentance — and  so  each, 


PRESIDENT  STEl 

with  such  a  feeling  of  inadequacy,  will 
seek  the  forgiveness  of  his  Father  in 
heaven  and  also  his  fellow  men  if  them 
he  has  offended.  It  is  this  constant 
sorrowing  and  striving  that  constitutes 
the  progressive,  constantly  applicable, 
principle  of  repentance.  This  ever-re- 
curring acknowledgment  of  weakness 
and  error  and  seeking  and  living  for 
the  higher  and  better  will  lead  us  to 
perfection. 

We  have  a  tendency  to  grade  and 
evaluate  the  mistakes  of  life,  in  which 
we  have  support  from  the  revelations. 
Some  deviations  we  classify  as  serious, 
even  to  the  point  of  unforgivable.  Others 
we  look  upon  with  more  allowance.  In 
some  cases  the  gravity  of  the  offense  and 
the  extent  of  culpability  are  subjects  for 
judicial  determination  by  those  ap- 
pointed to  be  judges  in  the  Church  of 
our  Father.  All  such  judgments  are 
authoritative,  and  we  believe,  almost 
without  exception,  righteous  judgments. 
The  penalties  are  to  be  observed.  But 
even  such  serious  infractions  do  not  do 
away  with  the  merciful  principle  of 
repentance,  and  I  know  of  no  judicial 
tribunal  in  the  Church  that  does  not 
uniformly  admonish  and  entreat  those 
who  are  convicted  of  offenses  to  repent, 
to  sin  no  more,  and  by  their  lives  seek 
and  be  worthy  of  forgiveness. 

There  are  so-called  lesser  offenses 
which  are  not  brought  to  the  attention 
of  Church  tribunals  but  which  frequent- 
ly come  before  the  presiding  officials 
who  are  judges  in  Israel,  with  relation 
to  the  advancement  of  men  and  women 
in  the  offices  and  privileges  of  the 
Church.  Questions  arise  in  connection 
with  advancement  in  the  priesthood, 
temple  recommends,  and  suitability  for 
offices  in  the  organizations.  I  wish  each 
one  who  may  feel  that  his  progress  is 
being  retarded,  and  he  is  not  recognized 
as  he  would  like  to  be,  might  ask  him- 
self what  there  is  in  his  life  to  bring 
about  this  retardation.  I  am  sure  that 
each  one,  if  he  is  frank  with  himself, 
will  find  the  answer.  There  is  a  remedy 
— a  universal  remedy — that  does  not 
fail.  It  is  repentance,  turning  away 
from  that  which  impairs  progress  and 
deprives  one  of  the  true  Spirit  of  the 
Lord.  While  I  have  mentioned  offenses 
that  are  spoken  of  as  serious  and  those 


1EN  L  RICHARDS  91 

which  are  less  serious,  I  would  have  all 
understand  that  there  is  no  departure 
from  the  ways  pointed  out  by  the  Savior 
which  is  not  serious  and  which  will  not 
impair  the  full  development  of  a  child 
of  God. 

I  have  said  these  things  about  the 
great  salutary  doctrine  of  repentance  as 
a  constantly  applicable,  progressive 
principle  of  life.  I  would  like  now  to  de- 
vote a  little  attention  to  the  encourage- 
ment we  may  give  each  other  and  all 
our  friends  in  the  adoption  of  this  prin- 
ciple. We  are  enjoined  by  the  revela- 
tions coming  to  us  with  the  restored 
gospel  to  call  all  men  to  repentance. 
Indeed,  missionary  work  is  the  first  ob- 
ligation laid  upon  the  restored  Church. 
We  would  like  all  of  our  friends  to 
understand  that  when  we  issue  this  call 
to  repentance,  we  include  ourselves 
within  it.  It  is  hoped  there  will  be  no 
implication  of  a  boastful  attitude  on  our 
part  and  that  of  our  missionaries  that 
we  are  free  from  the  necessity  of  re- 
pentance. It  is  true  that  there  is  in- 
consistency in  asking  our  neighbor  to 
repent  and  turn  away  from  a  practice  in 
transgression  of  the  laws  of  the  Lord 
which  we  ourselves  indulge.  Such  an 
example  does  not  lend  weight  to  the  call; 
but  in  spite  of  such  inconsistency  we 
are  still  under  divine  command  to  preach 
repentance  to  the  people  of  this  world, 
for  repentance  is  indispensable.  To 
those  who  criticize  because  they  find 
within  our  ranks  digressions  from  the 
pure  laws  of  the  gospel  we  seek  to  teach 
others,  I  put  this  trite  but  pertinent 
question:  Does  one  offense  wipe  out  an- 
other? Does  weakness  in  one,  even  one 
who  has  been  given  a  testimony  of  the 
truth,  justify  transgression  of  the  law  or 
failure  to  listen  to  its  precepts? 

I  said  in  the  beginning  that  I  thought 
there  must  have  been  much  of  entreaty 
and  appeal  in  that  initial  call  of  the 
Savior  to  his  fellow  men  at  the  begin- 
ning of  his  ministry:  "Repent:  for  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand."  (Matt. 
4:17.)  He  knew  the  weaknesses  of  those 
to  whom  he  issued  that  call.  He  knew 
their  pride  and  arrogance,  their  love  of 
the  things  of  the  world.  He  knew  that 
they  would  not  receive  him  for  what  he 
was.  He  knew  that  infinite  patience 
and  kindness  and  mercy  would  be  re- 


92 

Sunday,  April  8 

quired  to  teach  them  the  principles  of 
love  and  brotherhood  embraced  in  the 
holy  gospel.  He  knew  that  they  would 
have  to  change  their  ways  and  trans- 
form their  lives  and  concepts  before 
they  could  truly  come  into  his  fold.  So 
the  first  thing  that  he  taught  them  was 
repentance,  to  let  them  understand  that 
they  could  change  their  lives,  that  they 
could  abandon  their  traditional  prac- 
tices, their  intolerance,  and  their  ar- 
rogance, and  be  inducted  into  the  higher 
realm  of  love — love  of  God  and  of  their 
fellow  men.  Those  who  became  con- 
scious of  the  power  and  the  beauty  of 
his  teachings  must  have  received  the 
glorious  principle  of  repentance  with 
great  joy.  He  encouraged  them.  Jesus 
taught  his  disciples  the  doctrine  by  ex- 
ample and  parable. 

There  was  the  woman  taken  in  sin. 
I  think  I  have  never  seen  a  more  im- 
pressive spectacle  featured  on  the  screen 
than  that  portrayed  years  ago  when  the 
movies  were  without  sound  in  the  pic- 
ture called  "The  Ten  Commandments." 
There  was  the  woman  cast  into  the 
dust,  ashamed,  hopeless.  Surrounding  her 
were  hard-faced  men,  stones  poised  in 
their  hands,  ready,  seemingly  eager,  to 
execute  the  penalty  of  the  law.  The 
plight  of  the  woman  was  pitiful,  desper- 
ate. Then  suddenly  there  came  on  the 
scene  the  portrayal  of  the  Christ.  In 
his  presence  they  were  silenced,  and 
withheld  the  stones,  and  then  the  scrip- 
tural account  was  enacted: 

"They  say  unto  him,  Master,  this 
woman  was  taken  in  adultery,  in  the 
very  act. 

"Now  Moses  in  the  law  commanded 
us,  that  such  should  be  stoned:  but  what 
sayest  thou? 

"This  they  said,  tempting  him,  that 
they  might  have  to  accuse  him.  But 
Jesus  stooped  down,  and  with  his  finger 
wrote  on  the  ground,  as  though  he  heard 
them  not. 

"So  when  they  continued  asking  him, 
he  lifted  up  himself,  and  said  unto 
them,  He  that  is  without  sin  among  you, 
let  him  first  cast  a  stone  at  her. 

"And  again  he  stooped  down,  and 
wrote  on  the  ground. 

"And  they  which  heard  it,  being  con- 
victed by  their  own  conscience,  went 
out  one  by  one,  beginning  at  the  eldest, 
even  unto  the  last:  and  Jesus  was  left 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

alone,  and  the  woman  standing  in  the 
midst. 

"When  Jesus  had  lifted  up  himself, 
and  saw  none  but  the  woman,  he  said 
unto  her,  Woman,  where  are  those  thine 
accusers?  hath  no  man  condemned  thee? 

"She  said,  No  man,  Lord.  And  Jesus 
said  unto  her,  Neither  do  I  condemn 
thee:  go,  and  sin  no  more."  (John  8:4- 
11.) 

He  encouraged  all  to  repentance.  To 
do  so  he  told  one  of  the  greatest  of  all 
his  parables,  of  the  man  that  had  two 
sons,  an  older  and  a  younger.  The  older 
son  was  devoted  to  his  father,  obedient 
to  his  commands,  serving  him  duti- 
fully. The  younger  son  was  apparently 
of  a  different  disposition  with  a  long- 
ing for  the  things  of  the  world  and  its 
pleasures.  He  requested  and  received  a 
portion  of  the  father's  goods  that  he 
would  have  inherited,  thus  renouncing 
his  patrimony,  so  precious  to  the  Jews. 
He  took  what  he  received  and  went  into 
a  far  country  and  spent  that  which  had 
been  given  to  him  in  riotous  living.  It 
is  assumed  that  he  committed  many  of- 
fenses and  that  his  life  was  wholly  at 
variance  with  the  ideals  of  his  home, 
but  he  paid  a  heavy  penalty  for  his 
transgressions. 

When  he  had  spent  all  that  he  had, 
a  mighty  famine  came  in  the  land,  and 
he  found  himself  in  great  want.  He  was 
obliged  to  seek  work,  and  his  master 
sent  him  into  the  fields  to  feed  swine, 
perhaps  the  lowest,  most  menial  and 
degrading  of  all  things  that  could  come 
to  a  Jew.  We  are  told  that  so  great 
were  his  hunger  and  desperation  that 
he  would  fain  have  eaten  the  husks 
that  the  swine  did  eat. 

When  so  reduced  in  bodily  strength 
and  spirit,  he  came  to  himself.  We  have 
reason  to  believe  that  he  was  caught  in 
the  spirit  of  repentance,  and  in  his 
desperation  he  said  to  himself:  "How 
many  hired  servants  of  my  father's  have 
bread  enough  and  to  spare,  and  I  perish 
with  hunger! 

"I  will  arise  and  go  to  my  father, 
and  will  say  unto  him,  Father,  I  have 
sinned  against  heaven,  and  before  thee, 

"And  am  no  more  worthy  to  be  called 
thy  son:  make  me  as  one  of  thy  hired 
servants. 

"And  he  arose,  and  came  to  his 
father.    But  when  he  was  yet  a  great 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


93 


way  off,  his  father  saw  him,  and  had 
compassion,  and  ran,  and  fell  on  his 
neck,  and  kissed  him. 

"And  the  son  said  unto  him,  Father, 
I  have  sinned  against  heaven,  and  in 
thy  sight,  and  am  no  more  worthy  to 
be  called  thy  son."  (Luke  15:17-21.) 

But  the  father,  seemingly  overjoyed 
with  the  son's  return,  did  not  reply  to 
his  son's  exclamation,  but  he  called  out 
to  his  servants:  "Bring  forth  the  best 
robe  and  put  on  him,  and  bring  a  ring 
for  his  hand  and  shoes  for  his  feet,  and 
bring  hither  the  fatted  calf,  and  kill  it; 
and  let  us  eat  and  be  merry,  for  this  my 
son  was  dead,  and  he  is  alive  again; 
he  was  lost,  and  he  is  found."  (See  Luke 
15:22-24.) 

I  have  always  felt  that  the  Savior  in- 
tended the  father  in  the  parable  to 
typify  the  Eternal  Father  of  all  of  us. 
He  knew  the  rigidity  of  the  Jewish  law. 
He  knew  what  a  terrible  offense  it  was 
to  renounce  one's  patrimony — an  unfor- 
givable offense,  I  assume,  in  the  Jewish 
household.  So  he  had  this  wayward 
son  come  back  to  his  father,  not  to  be 
rejected,  but  to  be  received  and  loved. 
He  did  not  have  the  younger  son  re- 
stored to  all  the  privileges  he  had  for- 
feited. The  older,  more  dutiful  son, 
complained  of  the  feast  that  had  been 
made  on  the  return  of  his  younger  broth- 
er, but  the  father  consoled  him  with  the 
statement:  "Son,  thou  art  ever  with  me, 
and  all  that  I  have  is  thine."  And  then 
he  repeated  to  his  older  boy  the  words 
he  had  said  to  the  younger:  "It  was 
meet  that  we  should  make  merry,  and 
be  glad;  for  this  thy  brother  was  dead, 
and  is  alive  again;  and  was  lost,  and 
is  found."  (Luke  15:31-32.) 

I  think  it  is  significant  that  the  Lord 
made  it  clear  in  the  parable  that  the 
younger  son  had  lost  much  by  his  way- 
ward course,  but  in  a  measure,  at  least, 
he  paid  for  it,  with  his  suffering  and 
degradation.  Justice  requires  that.  But 
when  the  penalty  had  been  exacted,  the 
fond  father's  heart  was  gladdened  by  the 
repentance  and  the  return  of  his  son. 
What  an  encouragement  for  repentance! 
How  good  to  know  of  the  mercy  and  for- 
giveness of  the  Father!  Better  not  to 
have  transgressed,  but  wonderful  to  be 
taken  back! 

Just  as  repentance  is  a  divine  princi- 
ple, so  is  forgiveness.    The  Lord  has 


said,  "I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I 
will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to 
forgive  all  men."  (D  &  C  64:10.)  If  we 
were  more  liberal  in  our  forgiveness,  we 
would  be  more  encouraging  to  re- 
pentance. Someone  has  said  that  the 
supreme  charity  of  the  world  is  in 
obedience  to  the  divine  injunction, 
"Judge  not."  When  the  Savior  gave 
that  injunction,  he  was  well  aware  of 
the  limitations  of  human  understanding 
and  sympathy.  We  can  see  overt  acts, 
but  we  cannot  see  inner  feelings  nor 
can  we  read  intentions.  An  all-wise 
Providence  in  making  judgment  sees  and 
knows  all  the  phases  of  human  conduct. 
We  know  but  few  of  the  phases,  and 
none  very  well.  To  be  considerate  and 
kind  in  judgment  is  a  Christlike  attri- 
bute. 

So  may  we  hold  out  the  merciful, 
saving  principle  of  repentance  to  our- 
selves and  to  all  our  Father's  children. 
Let  us  issue  the  call  as  we  have  been 
commanded  to  do,  but  let  it  be  so  tem- 
pered in  love  and  humility  that  all  may 
receive  it  as  a  heartfelt  invitation  to 
share  the  glorious  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel which  have  come  to  the  earth 
through  revelation  in  these  latter  days. 
Let  no  brother  or  sister  in  the  whole 
family  of  God  feel  that  he  or  she  has 
gone  beyond  the  point  where  error  and 
sin  may  be  left  behind  and  true  re- 
pentance enlighten  the  soul  with  hope 
and  faith. 

Many  years  ago,  while  visiting  one  of 
the  missions  of  the  Church,  a  man  asked 
if  he  might  drive  me  to  my  next  ap- 
pointment. I  spoke  to  the  mission  presi- 
dent, and  he  said  he  thought  it  would 
be  all  right.  During  the  course  of  the 
journey,  this  man  painfully  outlined  for 
me  the  course  of  his  life.  He  told  me 
something  of  his  home  and  of  his  youth, 
and  then  in  deep  sorrow,  he  confessed 
his  transgressions.  They  were  very  seri- 
ous, and  his  consciousness  of  guilt 
almost  overwhelmed  him,  and  then  al- 
most choked  with  emotion,  he  asked  the 
question  he  had  premeditated  when  he 
sought  my  company:  "Brother  Richards, 
is  there  any  hope  for  me?  Now  that  I 
have  learned  the  gospel  from  the  mis- 
sionaries and  have  come  to  understand 
the  kind  of  life  the  Lord  expects  his 
children  to  live,  the  consciousness  of  my 
offenses  overwhelms  me.  May  I  ever  be 


94 

Sunday,  April  8 

forgiven?"  He  so  shook  with  sobs  that  I 
feared  somewhat  for  his  security  in  the 
driver's  seat. 

His  deep  moving  contrition  touched 
my  heart.  I  breathed  a  silent  prayer 
that  I  might  console  and  help  him.  And 
then  I  set  before  him  the  things  I  have 
tried  to  set  before  you  this  day.  I  gave 
him  the  same  examples  of  the  merciful 
principle  of  repentance  and  forgiveness, 
and  when  I  held  out  to  him  hope  and 
encouragement,  he  was  consoled,  he  re- 
gained his  composure,  and  in  a  voice 
ringing  with  determination,  he  cried 
out,  "With  the  Lord's  help  I  will  make 
myself  worthy  and  regain  that  I  have 
lost."  I  was  sure  the  Lord  would  help 
him  in  his  effort. 

This  man  did  not  know,  although  he 
must  have  heard  the  whisperings  of  his 
conscience,  how  grievous  were  his  trans- 
gressions until  he  heard  the  true  gospel, 
but  members  of  the  Church  who  have 
been  taught  know,  and  their  knowledge 
brings  accountability  and  responsibility. 
To  them  repentance  has  special  signifi- 
cance. They  are  leaders  and  teachers 
to  the  unenlightened.  On  their  shoul- 
ders they  carry  the  weight  of  the  king- 
dom. Its  progress  is  retarded  not  so  much 
by  lack  of  effort  as  by  insufficiency 
of  repentance — individual  repentance — 
which  is  essential  to  make  them  profit- 
able servants. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

love  and  respect  which  I  bear  you,  I 
appeal,  I  entreat  you,  and  I  offer  en- 
couragement for  repentance  for  all  the 
misdeeds  of  either  commission,  or  omis- 
sion, which  retard  our  progress  toward 
the  perfect  life  and  destiny  the  Lord  so 
graciously  holds  out  to  beckon  us  on. 

And  to  my  friends  and  our  friends, 
not  of  the  Church,  may  I  humbly  and 
sincerely  hold  out  this  glorious  doctrine 
as  the  true  way  to  happiness  and  peace. 
I  call  upon  all  in  tones  of  entreaty  and 
concern  to  stop  damning  God,  to  refrain 
from  intemperate  judgment,  to  be  honest 
and  virtuous.  If  you  want  peace  and 
happiness,  if  you  have  made  mistakes, 
you  can  repent  if  you  will.  The  Lord 
will  help  you,  and  he  will  reward  you 
a  thousand  times  over  for  your  effort. 
What  the  world  needs  is  a  repentant 
world,  and  you  may  be  assured  there  is 
no  enduring  happiness  in  anything  but 
goodness. 

I  invoke  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
upon  all  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Elder  LeGrand  Richards 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be 
our  next  speaker.  Elder  Richards  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


As  i  occupy  this  position  of  responsi- 
bility this  morning,  I  first  express 
l  the  feelings  of  my  heart  of  grati- 
tude to  the  Lord  for  my  membership  in 
this  Church  and  all  that  it  means  to 
me  and  for  my  fellowship  with  the 
members  of  the  Church.  They  are 
wonderful  people.  If  we  have  listened 
to  the  prayers  of  these  stake  presidents 
who  have  prayed  in  the  conference,  we 
know  something  of  the  faith  and  the 
leadership  ability  of  the  men  who  pre- 
side throughout  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  feel 
to  say  God  bless  them  all,  and  all  you 
fine  people  and  those  who  are  listen- 
ing in,  who  are  giving  of  their  time  and 
their  talents  and  their  means  to  help 
build  the  kingdom  of  God  in  the  earth. 


One  of  the  great  events  of  the  last 
year  as  far  as  the  Church  is  concerned 
was  the  choir  trip  to  Europe.  I  thought 
I  would  like  to  pass  on  to  its  members 
this  morning,  since  they  are  here,  com- 
ments that  came  in  a  missionary's  let- 
ter from  Berlin  a  few  days  ago. 

He  said,  "When  we  go  out  trading 
now  and  we  announce  ourselves  as  rep- 
resentatives of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the 
people  do  not  quite  understand,  we 
say,  'The  Mormon  Choir  that  was  just 
here,'  and  they  say,  'Oh,  come  in.' " 
The  missionaries  say  the  choir  has  done 
so  much  good  in  opening  the  doors  of 
the  people  for  them  to  carry  on  their 
missionary  work. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


95 


I  thought  since  the  announcement  has 
been  made  that  these  services  are  being 
broadcast  all  over  this  western  part  of 
the  United  States  by  television  and 
radio,  that  for  the  few  moments  as- 
signed to  me  I  would  like  to  speak  pri- 
marily to  those  who  are  not  members 
of  our  Church  who  might  be  listening 
in,  and  I  imagine  that  notwithstanding 
the  thousands  here  in  this  building,  and 
on  this  temple  block  that  there  are  even 
greater  audiences  listening  in  over  the 
radio  and  the  television. 

I  am  sure  that  the  building  of  the 
temple  in  Los  Angeles  has  impressed 
the  people  who  have  seen  it  and  the 
662,000  who  went  through  during  the 
period  that  it  was  open  for  inspection, 
and  I  imagine  that  there  were  many  of 
those  people  who  would  like  to  have 
heard  more  about  this  Church  and  its 
teachings  because  of  that  beautiful  edi- 
fice. 

Two  weeks  ago  last  night  I  was  in  a 
group  in  Los  Angeles,  and  a  man  who 
had  traveled  all  around  the  world  indi- 
cated that  he  thought  the  temple  there 
was  the  eighth  wonder  of  the  world. 

When  President  Clark  talked  to  the 
Primary  officers  and  teachers  who  were 
assembled  here  last  week,  he  exhorted 
them  to  teach  the  simple  truths  of  the 
gospel,  and  I  love  the  simple  truths  of 
the  gospel.  So  I  would  like  to  preface 
what  I  say  here  today  to  those  who 
might  be  listening  in  with  this  thought, 
that  I  believe  that  there  is  not  an  hon- 
est man  nor  an  honest  woman  in  this 
world  who  really  loves  the  Lord  who 
would  not  join  this  Church  if  he  knew 
what  it  was. 

When  I  say  really  love  the  Lord  I 
have  in  mind  such  as  of  whom  the 
Master  spoke  when  he  said  that  except 
a  man  be  willing  to  forsake  father  and 
mother  and  wife  and  children  and 
lands  and  herds  and  all  that  he  hath, 
and  take  his  name  upon  him,  "he  can- 
not be  my  disciple."  (See  Luke  14:26.) 

And  that  is  what  he  meant  when  he 
said  that  we  should  seek  first  the  king- 
dom of  God,  and  his  righteousness,  and 
all  other  things  would  be  added  unto 
us.  (See  Matt.  6:33.) 

There  is  not  a  person  who  has  that 
kind  of  love  of  God  who  would  not 
accept  this  Church  and  join  it  if  he 
really  knew  what  it  was,  and  our  mis- 


sion is  to  make  that  known  to  the  world, 
and  hence  I  appreciate  the  great  mis- 
sionary cause  of  this  Church. 

We  are  told  now  that  we  have  over 
12,000  missionaries,  and  nearly  half  of 
them  are  full-time  missionaries  giving 
their  entire  time  to  tell  the  world  and 
our  brothers  and  sisters  who  are  not  of 
us,  of  the  marvelous  thing  the  Lord  has 
accomplished  in  this  dispensation.  If 
these  people  only  knew  how  we  love 
them,  how  we  pray  for  them,  how  we 
pray  for  the  Lord  to  lead  the  mission- 
aries to  their  doors  and  to  give  them  the 
ability  to  explain  the  truth  to  them  in 
a  convincing  manner  so  that  they  will 
really  know,  I  am  sure  they  would 
realize  that  there  is  a  sincerity  in  this 
Church  that  might  not  be  found  any- 
where else  in  all  the  world. 

I  am  wondering  now  if  you  had  lived 
in  the  days  of  the  Savior  or  the  Apostle 
Paul,  and  you  had  heard  their  testi- 
monies, knowing  that  they  were  evil- 
spoken  of  by  all  people,  would  you  have 
believed  them?  You  remember  when 
Paul  was  brought  in  chains  to  Rome, 
the  high  priests  said,  ".  .  .  we  desire  to 
hear  of  thee  what  thou  thinkest:  for  as 
concerning  this  sect,  we  know  that  every 
where  it  is  spoken  against."  (Acts 
28:22.)  Those  who  join  this  Church 
have  to  pass  through  and  penerate  the 
opposition  and  evil  things  that  have 
been  said  against  us  because  the  war 
that  was  started  in  heaven  between 
Satan  and  the  followers  of  the  Lord  is 
still  being  fought,  and  one  of  his  great- 
est instruments  is  to  try  and  prejudice 
the  minds  of  men  and  women — and 
therefore  the  prophets  have  been  put 
to  death  through  all  dispensations. 

When  Paul  stood  before  Festus  and 
King  Agrippa  and  bore  that  marvelous 
testimony,  how  he  had  seen  a  light  and 
heard  a  voice  and  how  the  Son  of  God 
said  to  him,  ".  .  .  Saul,  Saul,  why  per- 
secutest  thou  me?  It  is  hard  for  thee  to 
kick  against  the  pricks,"  (Acts  26:14) 
and  then  as  Paul  reasoned  before  these 
two  great  Romans  he  said,  "Why 
should  it  be  thought  a  thing  incredible 
with  you  that  God  should  raise  the 
dead?"  (Acts  26:8.)  To  be  able  to  ac- 
cept the  message  of  Paul  in  those  days 
that  God  really  had  raised  the  dead, 
for  Christ  had  been  raised  from  the 
dead  and  had  appeared  to  him,  was 


96 

Sunday,  April  8 

harder,  possibly,  to  believe  than  the 
message  of  the  prophet  of  this  dispensa- 
tion. 

You  will  recall  that  when  that  testi- 
mony was  borne,  Festus  said,  "Paul, 
thou  art  beside  thyself;  much  learning 
doth  make  thee  mad,"  to  which  Paul 
replied,  "I  am  not  mad,  most  noble 
Festus;  but  speak  forth  the  words  of 
truth  and  soberness,"  to  which  King 
Agrippa  replied,  "Almost  thou  per- 
suadest  me  to  be  a  Christian."  (Acts 
26:24-25,  28.) 

Now  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  de- 
clared that  the  Father  and  the  Son 
appeared  to  him  when  he  was  a  mere 
lad,  not  quite  fifteen,  and  the  thing  that 
he  could  not  understand  was  the  preju- 
dice that  that  statement  aroused  in  the 
minds  of  leaders  of  men  and  leaders  of 
religion,  for  he  was  a  boy  of  no  great 
pretense,  just  a  farmer's  boy  without 
education,  and  he  said  he  could  under- 
stand, but  he  said  he  felt  as  he  imagined 
Paul  felt.  He  knew  that  he  had  seen  a 
light.  He  knew  that  he  had  heard  the 
voices  of  these  two  Personages,  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  And 
he  said  he  knew  that  God  knew  it,  and 
he  dared  not  deny  it  because  he  knew 
that  by  so  doing  he  would  come  under 
condemnation  before  God. 

Does  it  seem  any  more  incredible  to- 
day to  believe  that  the  God  of  heaven 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  who  was  resur- 
rected from  the  grave  should  appear  to 
man  here  upon  this  earth  than  to  be- 
lieve that  Christ  was  resurrected,  a 
thing  that  had  never  been  seen  or  heard 
of  before  at  the  time  of  his  resurrection? 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  how  the 
Father  announced  his  approval  of  the 
Son  at  his  baptism  and  on  the  mount 
of  the  transfiguration.  We  read  that 
Stephen  gazed  into  heaven  and  saw 
Christ  sitting  on  the  right  hand  of  his 
Father,  so  we  know  they  do  exist,  and 
then  think  of  all  that  the  prophets 
have  foretold  for  the  latter  days,  and  it 
does  not  seem  incredible  that  they 
should  usher  in  this  the  greatest  gospel 
dispensation  of  all  time  by  a  personal 
visitation  to  this  earth. 

And  if  they  were  to  come,  to  whom 
would  they  come?  The  prophet  Amos 
tells  us,  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do 
nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret 
unto  his  servants  the  prophets."  (Amos 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

3:7.)  And  when  there  are  no  prophets, 
there  is  no  leadership  of  God  in  the 
world,  for  his  way  of  leading  his  peo- 
ple is  through  his  servants  the  prophets. 

We  read  of  when  Jeremiah  was  called 
to  be  a  prophet.  As  you  will  remember, 
he  was  young;  he  could  not  understand 
it,  so  the  Lord  had  to  comfort  him  by 
saying,  "Before  I  formed  thee  in  the 
belly  I  knew  thee;  and  before  thou 
earnest  forth  out  of  the  womb  I  sancti- 
fied thee,  and  I  ordained  thee  a  prophet 
unto  the  nations."  (Jer.  1:5.) 

We  know  through  the  declaration  of 
one  of  the  American  prophets,  as  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  called  before  he  was 
born  and  was  in  waiting  three  thousand 
years  before  his  birth  to  come  forth  to 
usher  in  this  great  latter-day  gospel 
dispensation,  so  that  it  is  no  miracle 
and  not  a  thing  incredible  to  believe 
that  God  would  raise  up  a  man  to  do 
the  work  that  needed  to  be  done  in  re- 
storing his  work  to  the  earth  in  this 
dispensation. 

Peter  saw  the  latter  days.  The  Christ 
looked  forward  to  his  coming  in  the 
latter  days.  He  taught  his  apostles  to 
pray,  "Thy  kingdom  come.  Thy  will  be 
done  in  earth,  as  it  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  6:10.)  And  men  and  women 
have  prayed  that  from  those  days  until 
the  present,  without  ever  realizing  that 
those  words  would  literally  be  fulfilled, 
that  the  kingdom  of  God  would  be 
established  in  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven. 
And  Peter,  speaking  to  those  who  put 
to  death  the  Christ,  said  that  they  should 
repent  that  their  sins  might  be  ".  .  . 
blotted  out,  when  the  times  of  refreshing 
shall  come  from  the  presence  of  the 
Lord; 

"And  he  shall  send  Jesus  Christ, 
which  before  was  preached  unto  you: 

"Whom  the  heaven  must  receive," 
Peter  says,  "until  the  times  of  restitu- 
tion of  all  things,  which  God  hath 
spoken  by  the  mouth  of  all  his  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began."  (Acts 
3:19-21.) 

There  is  not  a  man  or  woman  in  this 
world  who  really  loves  the  Lord  who 
would  not  accept  the  truth  if  he  knew 
what  God  really  had  restored  in  this 
"restitution  of  all  things  spoken  by  the 
mouths  of  all  the  holy  prophets  since  the 
world  began."  That  is  one  of  the  simple 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


97 


truths  declared  by  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith. 

Then  we  have  the  statement  when 
John  was  banished  upon  the  Isle  of 
Patmos,  and  the  angel  called  him  and 
said,  ".  .  .  Come  up  hither,  and  I  will 
shew  thee  things  which  must  be  here- 
after." (Rev.  4:1.)  Now  remember, 
Christ  had  already  been  crucified,  and 
then  John  was  shown  that  in  the  latter 
days,  "another  angel  [would]  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  .  .  ."  (Rev.  14:6)  and  that  is  the 
only  gospel  that  can  save  men.  Jesus 
said,  "But  in  vain  they  do  worship  me, 
teaching  for  doctrines  the  command- 
ments of  men."  (Matt.  15:9.)  And 
John  saw  that  this  angel  would  have 
"the  everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto 
them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to 
every  nation,  and  [every]  kindred,  and 
[every]  tongue,  and  [every]  people." 
(See  Rev.  14:6.)  This  truly  is  a  declara- 
tion that  no  one  would  be  in  posses- 
sion of  the  "everlasting  gospel"  when 
that  angel  would  come. 

We  see  the  Angel  Moroni  on  the 
temple  here  and  on  the  Los  Angeles 
Temple  with  his  trumpet  as  if  he  were 
declaring  to  the  world  that: 

An  angel  from  on  high 
The  long,  long  silence  broke, 
Descending  from  the  sky 
These  gracious  words  he  spoke. 

—Parley  P.  Pratt 

And  we  have  his  message  of  the  restora- 
tion of  the  gospel. 

When  Daniel  interpreted  King  Nebu- 
chadnezzar's dream,  and  you  will  re 
member  the  king  had  already  forgotten 
the  dream,  he  said  to  him,  "But  there 
is  a  God  in  heaven  that  revealeth 
secrets,  and  maketh  known  to  the  king 
Nebuchadnezzar  what  shall  be  in  the 

latter  days  "  (Dan.  2:28.)   And  then 

he  declared  the  rise  and  fall  of  the 
kingdoms  of  this  world  until  in  the 
latter  days,  and  he  mentions  that 
specifically,  ".  .  .  the  God  of  heaven 
[shall]  set  up  a  kingdom,  which  shall 
never  be  destroyed:  and  the  kingdom 
shall  not  be  left  to  another  people,  and 
it  shall  .  .  .  stand  for  ever,"  (Dan. 
2:44)  and  as  a  little  stone  it  should 
roll  forth  until  it  should  become  as  a 


great  mountain  and  fill  the  whole  earth. 
(See  Dan.  2:45.) 

There  are  many  other  prophecies  con- 
cerning the  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  the  Lord  promised  to  do  in  the 
latter  days.  How  could  that  kingdom 
be  set  up  in  the  world  just  by  men 
studying  the  scriptures,  differing  in 
their  interpretation  of  the  words  of  the 
prophets?  We  have  to  have  a  prophet 
of  God,  for  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will 
do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret 
unto  his  servants  the  prophets,"  and  it 
is  our  testimony  to  the  world  that  that 
kingdom  has  been  established  in  the 
earth  through  the  instrumentality  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

Through  the  work  of  the  mission- 
aries, nearly  22,000  people  have  left  the 
faith  of  their  fathers  during  the  last 
year  and  joined  this  Church  because 
they  have  believed  these  marvelous 
things,  and  we  bear  witness  to  the 
world  that  they  are  true.  Of  course,  in 
fifteen  minutes  I  can  not  tell  you  much 
about  what  has  gone  on  in  this  world 
in  the  restoration  of  the  gospel,  but 
what  I  have  said  ought  to  be  suffi- 
cient to  make  you  want  to  know  more 
about  it,  and  our  missionaries  are 
available.  Among  that  22,000  converts 
are  ministers  of  the  gospel,  for  there  are 
many  honest  men  among  them,  and 
this  work  is  going  forth  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty,  and  our  mis- 
sionaries are  being  led  to  the  honest 
in  heart. 

We  had  a  man  down  in  South  Caro- 
lina, when  I  was  there,  who  told  us 
that  he  saw  two  missionaries  in  a  dream 
come  to  his  home  a  year  before  they 
actually  knocked  at  his  door,  and  when 
they  knocked  at  his  door,  he  said,  "Come 
in,  you  have  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  for  me." 

Brother  and  Sister  Romney  are  sitting 
down  here  on  the  front  row.  He  just 
presided  in  the  Central  American  Mis- 
sion. I  toured  that  mission  with  him 
a  year  ago  last  January,  and  two  of  the 
lady  missionaries  said  they  were  walk- 
ing along  the  street  one  day,  and  a  man 
came  up  to  them  and  said,  "I  know 
who  you  are.  I  have  seen  you  in  a 
dream.  You  have  the  truth.  Will  you 
come  to  our  home  and  teach  it  to  us?" 

So  I  bear  you  my  solemn  witness 


98 

Sunday,  April  8 

today  that  there  is  evidence  sufficient 
to  any  honest  man  or  any  honest 
woman  who  really  loves  the  Lord  that 
we  do  in  very  deed  have  the  kingdom 
of  God  to  offer  unto  them,  and  I  bear 
you  that  witness  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Mar- 
ion D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


Ineed  the  inspiration  and  guidance 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  earnestly  pray 
for  them  this  morning. 
In  our  files  on  Temple  Square  we  have 
a  great  many  letters  from  people  who 
have  come  to  us  seeking  to  learn  some- 
thing of  the  truths  which  have  been 
testified  of  here  this  morning.  We  have 
letters  from  many  who  have  not  been 
here  but  who  have  come  in  contact  in 
some  way  with  the  Church  or  its  prin- 
ciples or  its  people,  and  who  have  writ- 
ten to  express  (so  often  in  almost  the 
same  words)  what  so  many  here  have 
expressed,  that  they  feel,  they  sense,  they 
experience  among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
something  different  from  anything  they 
have  ever  known  before. 

Friday  morning,  at  the  opening  ses- 
sion of  this  conference,  we  had  the 
pleasure  of  the  presence  here  of  a  fine 
gentleman  who  had  been  introduced  to 
us  by  letter  from  President  George  Rom- 
ney  of  the  Detroit  Stake.  Prior  to  that 
session  and  following  it,  we  talked  for 
some  hours  with  this  wonderful,  dedi- 
cated man.  He  had  come  here  to  learn 
a  little  about  this  feeling,  this  sense  of 
dedication,  this  peace  which  he  said  he 
had  experienced  among  the  Mormons. 
He  is  a  man  of  real  loyalty  to  principle, 
whose  mind  and  mouth  and  life  are 
clean  and  decent,  and  who  is  seeking 
earnestly  to  do  that  which  God  would 
have  him  do. 

He  wanted  to  know  many  things  about 
us.  He  knew  much  already.  One 
statement  he  made,  like  those  which  I 
have  quoted,  almost  to  the  word,  was, 
"I  have  been  an  active,  loyal,  partici- 
pating member  of  a  certain  church,  but 
I  think  something  is  missing."  He  had 
come  here  to  try  to  find  out  what. 

May  I  bear  witness  that  this  experi- 
ence has  happened  many  times,  and 
that  out  of  it  we  have  extracted  the 


simple  lesson  that  the  truths  of  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  are 
available  here  to  men,  in  reality,  and 
that  as  they  seek  them  and  find  them 
and  honor  them,  their  lives  enjoy  a 
kind  of  peace  and  fulfilment  they  did 
not  know  before. 

I  suppose  it  is  the  most  fundamental 
and  axiomatic  thing  we  might  say  of 
religious  faith  that  to  be  fruitful  and 
productive  of  good  it  has  to  be  based 
in  truth.  The  fact  that  there  is  wide- 
spread interest  in  religion  in  this  na- 
tion and  the  world  does  not  warrant 
the  supposition  that  all  those  who  have 
religious  interest  and  religious  faith  will 
enjoy  the  peace  and  the  sense  of  pur- 
pose and  the  abundant  life  promised 
by  the  Lord  to  those  who  would  find 
and  follow  his  way,  for  it  is  not  enough 
simply  to  be  "religious"  or  to  be  "sin- 
cere" in  one's  convictions.  It  is  not 
enough  to  be  sincerely  convinced  of 
something  that  is  false.  We  must  have 
faith  in  true  principles  and  live  them 
courageously  if  our  religion  is  to  help 
us  accomplish  God's  purposes  for  us. 

The  call  for  faith  comes  from  many 
quarters.  Carl  Jung,  considered  by 
many  to  be  one  of  the  most  important 
living  psychiatrists,  is  reported  recently 
to  have  said  that  among  all  his  patients 
over  thirty-five  there  was  not  one  whose 
basic  problem  was  not  lack  of  religious 
faith.  Recently  in  the  Christmas  issue 
of  a  great  magazine  there  was  printed 
a  statement  that  has  much  meaning  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  who  know  the 
statement  of  the  prophet  Amulek,  quoted 
in  Alma,  chapter  10,  that  the  prayers 
and  lives  of  a  righteous  remnant  pre- 
served the  land,  and  who  know  also 
that  there  are  other  accounts  of  this 
same  circumstance  recorded  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Concluding  an  editorial, 
the  writer  said:  "No  doubt  most  Ameri- 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


99 


cans  are  less  religious  than  they  should 
be.  They  then  owe  a  vast  and  con- 
tinuing debt  to  the  saving  remnant  in 
their  midst  who  do  hunger  and  thirst 
after  righteousness  and  walk  humbly 
before  their  God.  They  do  not  do  this 
for  America's  sake,  but  without  them 
America  would  be  little  more  than  a 
geographical  expression." 

A  widely  known  statement  made  in 
recent  years  by  a  great  military  leader 
calls  our  generation  "ethical  infants," 
"moral  adolescents." 

We  join  with  all  those  who  recog- 
nize, as  those  quoted  have  been  shown 
to  recognize,  the  great  need  for  honor, 
integrity,  humility,  prayerfulness,  right- 
eousness, the  whole  truth — all  attributes 
and  characteristics  flowing  from  and 
concomitant  to  deep  religious  faith 
which  is  founded  on  truth. 

The  witness  you  have  heard  expressed 
here  today  is  that  God  has  in  our  day 
restored  through  living  prophets,  by 
revelation,  the  simple,  basic,  beautiful, 
life-giving,  peace-bringing  truths  which 
men  of  old  knew  and  which  Christ  him- 
self came  to  teach  in  the  Meridian  of 
Time. 

May  we  take  time  to  mention  three 
contributions  that  the  restoration  has 
made  in  supplying  the  deep  needs  of 
man  for  religious  truth  founded  in 
faith?  First,  I  note  the  answers  supplied 
for  the  universal  problems  men  have 
concerning  God,  themselves,  and  their 
relationship  with  their  Creator.  Sec- 
ond, the  restored  Church  has  had  re- 
vealed a  program  for  living,  a  guide  to 
conduct,  which  can  lead  one  to  fruitful, 
satisfying,  purposeful  living  here  in 
mortality.  Third,  I  speak  of  the  spirit- 
ual conviction,  confidence,  assurance — 
testimony,  we  sometimes  call  it — which 
will  motivate  one  to  think  differently, 
live  differently,  to  be  different  than  he 
otherwise  would  be. 

The  President  of  the  United  States 
is  quoted  as  having  said  something  last 
year  which  has  special  meaning  to  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  in  connection  with  the 
first  contribution  of  the  restoration  we 
have  mentioned.  These  are  his  words: 
"Whence  did  we  come?  Why  are  we 
here?  What  is  the  true  reason  for  our 
existence?  And  where  are  we  going? 
For  the  answers  we  have  .  .  .  the  faith 
...  of  our  religious  convictions." 


One  of  the  most  important  aspects  of 
the  restoration  is  that  it  supplies  an- 
swers to  these  most  fundamental  spirit- 
ual questions.  We  may  learn  who  we 
really  are,  and  what  our  relationship 
is  with  Him  from  whom  we  came.  We 
are  taught  that  the  Bible  may  be  be- 
lieved when  it  teaches  that  we  are  the 
children,  the  literal  spirit  children,  of 
our  Father  in  heaven.  We  have  assur- 
ance that  Christ  was  indeed  the  Living 
Son  of  God,  that  he  came  to  teach  men 
how  to  live  and  died  that  we  might  live 
eternally.  We  know  that  men  are  free 
and  responsible  agents  in  a  world  where 
there  are  alternative  forces  and  courses 
to  choose  among,  and  that  we  are  not 
only  free  to  choose  but  also  under  the 
necessity  of  choosing  the  path  and 
course  we  shall  pursue.  Man  has  with- 
in him,  in  an  embryonic  sense,  those 
basic  attributes  which  are  characteristic 
of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  which  are 
in  him  in  their  fulness.  Man  is  capable 
of  love,  mercy,  and  justice,  attributes 
which  have  their  fullest  development  in 
him.  We  have  assurance  through  the 
restored  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
that  we  are  literal  children  of  God, 
that  we  can  become  like  him,  that  the 
ultimate  of  our  possibility  is  that  some- 
day under  his  guidance  we  may  even 
participate  with  him  in  his  great  crea- 
tive work. 

The  truths  of  the  restoration  testify 
that  there  was  a  plan  before  this  world 
was,  and  that  that  plan  contemplated 
our  earthly  existence,  our  freedom,  and 
our  responsibility,  and  that  when  we 
had  left  this  mortal  life,  we  should  con- 
tinue to  live  as  really  and  as  certainly 
as  we  here  exist.  Moreover,  they  testify 
(and  this  is  what  first  brought  the 
Church  to  the  attention  of  our  friend 
from  the  east)  that  there  is  a  divinely- 
inspired  program  for  living  among  us 
which  is  designed  to  lead  men  to  hap- 
piness here  on  this  earth.  What  is  that 
program?  You  know  it  well.  It  is  a 
program  of  faith,  repentance,  baptism, 
and  reception  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost;  it  is  a  program  requiring  an  en- 
during and  dedicated  hunger  and  thirst 
for  righteousness,  a  life  of  honor  and 
honesty,  and  a  "love  of  God  and  of  all 
men." 

There  are  able  and  sincere  men  crying 
out  all  over  the  world  today  for  men  to 


100 

Sunday,  April  8 

"believe,"  to  "believe."  But  as  our  friend 
said  Friday,  "They  do  not  tell  us  what 
to  believe  or  what  to  do  to  find  happi- 
ness." 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  testifies  to  the  world  that  the 
program  restored  by  the  Master  of  men 
in  our  day  is  the  same  program  he 
taught  men  when  he  was  among  them. 
And  as  Christ  taught  men  to  have  faith, 
to  repent  of  their  sins,  to  be  baptized 
for  the  remission  of  those  sins,  in  order 
that  they  might  receive  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  so  taught  Paul  and  the 
others.  Do  you  remember  the  occa- 
sion described  in  the  second  chapter  of 
Acts,  an  occasion  almost  analogous  to 
scenes  we  hear  about  in  various  parts 
of  the  world  today,  when  the  multi- 
tude, having  been  taught  the  mission 
and  message  of  Jesus  (but  by  the  apos- 
tles who  have  been  "chosen"  and  "or- 
dained" by  Christ  so  do)  found  faith 
in  the  Messiah,  and  came  to  Peter  and 
the  others  and  said;  "Men  and  brethren, 
what  shall  we  do?"  What  did  Peter  an- 
swer? Did  he  tell  them  to  go  to  some 
Church,  any  church,  and  pursue  any 
program  or  course  they  chose,  whatever 
it  might  be,  so  long  as  they  were  sin- 
cere? His  answer  is  recorded  in  the 
Holy  Bible  that  all  may  read: 

Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  ye  shall  receive  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to  your 
children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar  off,  even 
as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God  shall  call. 
(Acts  2:38-39.) 

It  is  revealed  anew  in  our  day  that 
not  only  must  a  man  believe,  but  also 
that  he  must  belieye  that  which  is  true, 
and  he  must  do  that  which  God  has 
commanded. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

There  is  one  final  thing  we  spoke  of: 
if  one  is  to  learn  the  answers  to  the 
basic  spiritual  problems  of  his  life  and 
is  to  pursue  a  purposeful  program  fruit- 
fully and  happily,  he  must  have  a  moti- 
vation, an  "inner  aim"  our  friends 
sometimes  call  it,  a  spiritual  assurance, 
a  testimony  which  will  inspire  and  im- 
pell  him  to  learn  and  to  live.  The  en- 
joyment of  that  testimony  is  one  of  the 
great  possibilities  that  has  come  to  us 
through  the  restoration  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

We  testify  to  you  that  religious  faith 
is  important  and  urgently  necessary,  but 
it  must  be  based  in  truth.  The  truth 
available  to  all  men  is  that  God  in  our 
very  dispensation  has  spoken,  restoring 
anew  the  ancient  truths,  restoring  anew 
the  only  gospel,  the  good  word  of  God 
for  his  children. 

That  testimony  is  among  us;  many  of 
us  enjoy  it.  I  testify  of  it  humbly,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  The  Choir  and  congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "Redeemer  of 
Israel,"  conducted  by  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall. 

After  the  singing,  Elder  Antoine  R. 
Ivins  will  address  us. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us,  and  he  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Hugh  B.  Brown. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  It  is 
a  sobering  thought  to  face  you 
wonderful  people  and  hope  to  say 
some  encouraging  word.  My  own  min- 
istry has  been  one  of  an  effort  to  en- 
courage myself  and  others  to  do  better 
the  things  we  have  to  do  as  members 
of  the  Church. 


It  is  almost  twenty-five  years  since  I 
first  faced  a  congregation  in  this  capacity. 
I  have  enjoyed  those  twenty-five  years 
very  much.  There  have  been  a  few 
echoes  come  back  that  help  has  been 
rendered  to  people.  When  it  comes,  it 
is  always  satisfying. 

I  believe  that  without  reserve  I  can 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


101 


bear  testimony  to  every  thought  which 
has  been  delivered  in  this  conference. 
My  hope  is  that  the  testimony  I  under- 
take to  bear  to  you  today  may  be  con- 
sonant with  the  spirit  of  those  to  which 
we  have  listened  and  that  perchance 
some  help  may  come  from  it. 

We  have  heard  several  times  the  testi- 
mony that  Jesus  Christ  actually  is  the 
Son  of  God,  that  he  was  tabernacled  in 
the  flesh,  that  he  was  resurrected  from 
the  dead  to  open  up  the  privilege  for 
all  of  us  to  return  to  the  presence  of 
God  and  stand  judgment  for  our  deeds. 
We  have  heard  also  that  in  humble 
prayer  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  suc- 
ceeded in  opening  the  gates  of  heaven 
and  having  appear  to  him  God  the 
Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  through  which 
a  renewed  testimony  as  to  the  indi- 
viduality of  the  Father  and  the  Son  has 
come  back  to  the  earth. 

We  have  heard  also  that  the  heavens 
were  reopened;  the  Angel  Moroni  ap- 
peared to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
instructed  him  over  many  occasions  in 
his  duties  and  responsibilities,  and 
further  than  that  that  the  priesthood  was 
restored  through  the  instrumentality  of 
heavenly  beings. 

Every  one  of  those  questions  is  a  vital 
question  to  every  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  think  that  all  of  us  here  without 
doubt  would  testify  as  to  the  truth  of  all 
of  these  things.  It  is  that  testimony  on 
which  the  vitality  of  the  Church  rests. 

Not  the  least  important  of  all  of  these 
events  was  the  restoration  of  the  priest- 
hood, because  the  priesthood  is  the  order 
in  which  the  ordinances  essential  to 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  when 
properly  observed  and  when  our  action 
justifies  it,  are  performed.  Without  that 
priesthood  the  Church  could  not  func- 
tion. There  is  a  difference  between  the 
gospel  and  the  Church  and  the  priest- 
hood. Each  has  its  function  in  our  lives. 
The  priesthood  then  becomes  as  impor- 
tant to  us  perhaps  as  any  other  phase  of 
our  existence. 

We  were  told  last  night  of  the  tre- 
mendous priesthood  there  is  in  the 
Church  as  compared  with  that  of  other 
religious  groups.  My  experience  and  the 
checking  that  I  have  made  over  the  last 
two  or  three  years  indicates  to  me  that 
there  would  be  on  an  average  in  the 


stakes  of  Zion  about  ten  percent  of  the 
members  of  the  stakes  who  bear  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  That  is,  when 
united  with  simple,  pure  faith,  the  great- 
est power  that  there  is  among  men. 

I  represent  one  group  of  that  priest- 
hood, twenty  odd  thousand  of  them.  It 
has  been  my  effort,  along  with  my  col- 
leagues over  these  twenty-five  years,  to 
stimulate  that  group  to  greater  service 
and  greater  activity.  Now,  if  it  is  real, 
and  we  testify  that  it  is,  that  that  priest- 
hood has  come  back  and  that  priesthood 
is  a  right  to  function  on  behalf  of  God, 
our  Heavenly  Father,  in  the  ordinances 
essential  to  man's  blessing  and  happi- 
ness, then  we  who  accept  it  have  a  tre- 
mendous responsibility,  and  our  problem 
is  to  magnify  that  calling. 

I  take  it  that  every  man  who  allows 
me  to  place  my  hands  upon  his  head  and 
ordain  him  to  an  office  in  that  priest- 
hood, promises  actually  or  impliedly  that 
he  will  do  what  may  be  within  his 
power  to  magnify  that  calling.  It  is 
interesting  indeed  when  we  contemplate 
the  possibilities  of  it. 

To  show  you  how  near  some  of  us 
are  to  the  actual  restoration  of  that 
priesthood,  let  me  tell  you  this:  Joseph 
Smith  received  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood from  Peter,  James,  and  John. 
Joseph  Smith  ordained  Joseph  Young  a 
seventy  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
Joseph  Young  ordained  my  father  at  the 
age  of  seventeen  as  a  seventy  in  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood.  And  my  father 
ordained  me  an  elder.  There  are  others 
who  are  closer  to  it  than  that.  But 
when  we  think  that  we  are  actually 
only  a  step  or  two  away  from  an  ordina- 
tion by  Peter,  James,  and  John  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  when  we 
think  that  that  ordination  makes  us 
emissaries  and  representatives  of  God 
our  Heavenly  Father;  when  we  further 
think  that  without  the  functioning  of 
that  priesthood  we  would  never  gain  an 
exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  it  is 
almost  overwhelming,  is  it  not? 

Now,  what  do  we  do  about  it?  I  am 
as  much  interested  in  what  we  are  going 
to  do  with  it  as  the  fact  that  we  have 
it,  and  it  means  that  we  must  work  with 
ourselves  and  work  with  those  people 
over  whom  we  can  have  an  influence. 
We  cannot  dream  ourselves  into  exalta- 
tion. Dreams  have  no  value  unless  they 


102 

Sunday,  April  8 

prove  to  be  incentives  for  greater  activity. 
It  is  fine  to  dream  about  the  possibilities 
of  life,  but  until  we  do  something  about 
it,  those  dreams  are  useless. 

When  we  scan  the  statistics  of  the 
Church,  we  discover  that  there  are  too 
many,  far  too  many  of  the  people  who 
have  accepted  this  responsibility  who 
do  little  or  nothing  about  it.  There  is 
the  group  which  should  have  our 
especial  attention.  The  seventies  of  the 
Church  are  missionaries.  Their  field  of 
labor  is  world-wide.  Being  world-wide, 
it  includes  their  own  households.  It  is 
the  responsibility  of  every  seventy,  of 
every  elder,  and  every  high  priest  in  the 
Church,  first,  to  purify  his  own  life, 
bringing  it  into  harmony  with  the  teach- 
ings of  the  gospel,  that  thereby  he  may 
gain  the  peace  of  mind  and  the  happi- 
ness of  which  you  have  just  heard,  and 
then  after  doing  that,  he  has  the  re- 
sponsibility of  extending  his  influence 
and  his  efforts  beyond  his  own. 

I  feel  that  the  primary  responsibility 
of  us  individually  is  to  bring  into  har- 
mony himself  and  his  household  to  the 
teachings  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel. 
Could  we  do  that,  what  a  wonderful 
power  there  would  be  in  the  priesthood 
which  we  bear. 

If  we  understand  our  responsibilities, 
this  priesthood  is  a  thing  of  great  power. 
We  have  been  told  today  that  Satan  and 
his  emissaries  are  rampant  in  the  earth, 
walking  up  and  down  trying  to  deceive 
people.  God  knew  that  would  happen 
when  he  placed  man  on  the  earth  and 
when  he  expelled  Satan  from  the  heav- 
ens, but  he,  it  seems  to  me,  prepared 
a  way  to  meet  it,  and  that  preparation 
is  the  life  that  justifies  the  receipt  of  the 
priesthood  and  the  actual  receipt  of  that 
priesthood  through  proper  channels. 

I  believe  that  it  is  within  the  power 
of  every  man  who  holds  the  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  to  say,  "Get  thee  behind  me, 
Satan."  Whenever  a  man  holding  that 
priesthood  yields  to  the  temptations  of 
the  flesh  and  does  the  evil  that  is  ram- 
pant in  the  earth,  it  is  an  admission  on 
his  part  that  he  does  not  appreciate  his 
priesthood,  that  he  does  not  accompany 
the  gift  of  that  priesthood  with  a  faith 
that  makes  it  powerful. 

You  know  and  I  know,  you  have  had 
many  illustrations  of  the  effective  use 
of  the  priesthood  when  it  is  combined 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

with  faith.  Besides  the  healing  of  the 
sick,  the  gift  which  is  not  given  to  all 
people  I  admit  but  which  comes  only 
through  the  union  of  faith  and  priest- 
hood, there  are  many  other  gracious  and 
wonderful  gifts  that  come  to  us  through 
the  exercise  of  this  priesthood.  It  is 
such  a  tremendous  power  that  if  every 
one  of  the  men  who  hold  the  Melchize- 
dek Priesthood  would  fully  magnify  his 
calling,  united  with  a  perfect  faith,  we 
could  almost  control  the  activities  of  the 
society  in  which  we  live,  nation-wide 
and  international.  The  trouble  is  that 
we  just  do  not  do  it.  We  do  not  do 
what  we  know  we  ought  to  do,  and  it 
is  saddening  to  study  our  statistics  and 
find  how  many  people  fail  to  appreciate 
this  wonderful  thing  which  came  back 
to  us  in  the  most  miraculous  way. 

Now,  brethren,  what  are  we  going  to 
do  about  it?  We  have  it.  It  is  our 
privilege  to  use  it.  Will  we  use  it  wisely 
or  will  we  let  it  lie  idle  and  rust  out? 
I  hope  that  we  will  be  conscious  of  this 
tremendous  responsibility  because  it  is 
just  that,  that  we  will  go  away  from  this 
conference  with  a  conscious  responsi- 
bility of  the  priesthood,  that  when  we  go 
back  we  will  bear  testimony  to  our  own 
and  to  others  of  the  wonderful  things 
that  we  have  heard  today,  that  we  will 
bring  our  own  lives  as  nearly  as  possible 
into  complete  harmony  with  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  for  we  have  been  told 
today  that  to  attain  to  the  highest  exalta- 
tion in  the  kingdom  of  God,  to  sit  with 
God  in  the  councils  of  heaven,  enjoying 
the  privileges  of  eternal  progress  and 
eternal  increase,  that  eventually  at  least 
we  will  have  to  learn  to  obey  all  of  the 
commandments  of  God. 

Let  us  start  about  it  now,  brethren  and 
sisters;  let  us  do  better  tomorrow  than 
we  did  yesterday  or  than  we  have  done 
today,  with  all  of  our  wonderful  resolu- 
tions. Let  us  make  tomorrow  a  better 
day. 

God  bless  us  in  the  effort,  I  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us.  We  shall  now  hear  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  who 
will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


103 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1 wonder  if  sometimes  our  people 
think  when  they  hear  each  speaker 
ask  for  divine  guidance  that  it  has 
come  to  be  just  a  habit.  If  you  were 
asked  to  occupy  this  position,  you  would 
know  that  that  is  not  the  case.  For  that 
guidance  I  humbly  pray. 

I  should  like  to  follow  the  example  of 
being  brief  which  was  set  yesterday  by 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith.  I 
think  he  demonstrated  the  truth  of  the 
statement  that  for  a  speech  to  be  im- 
mortal it  does  not  need  to  be  everlast- 
ing. 

It  is  not  surprising  that  Elder  LeGrand 
Richards  and  I  should  be  thinking  along 
similar  lines,  because  both  of  us  have 
had  missionary  experience,  and  when- 
ever a  missionary  stands  before  a  con- 
gregation of  Saints,  if  there  is  one  single 
individual  present  who  is  not  a  member 
of  the  Church,  the  missionary  will 
talk  to  him  and  ignore  all  the  rest.  I 
should  like  to  follow  his  lead,  if  I  may, 
and  address  what  I  have  to  say  to  you 
out  there,  our  other  brothers  and  sisters 
who  are  not  members  of  the  Church, 
and  I  think  it  is  not  presumptuous  to 
think  there  are  thousands  of  you  listen- 
ing in. 

Since  our  last  April  conference,  re- 
porters, editors,  commentators,  and 
others  at  home  and  abroad  have  given 
considerable  time  and  space  to  the 
Church  and  its  activities.  As  has  been 
intimated,  this  results  partly  at  least 
from  the  tour  of  the  choir,  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  Swiss  and  Los  Angeles  tem- 
ples, and  the  announcement  of  other 
temples  to  be  built.  We  appreciate  the 
uniform  friendliness  and  general  ac- 
curacy of  these  reports  and  comments. 
They  have  ranged  from  learned  discus- 
sions of  various  phases  of  the  gospel  to 
such  brief  and  inaccurate  generalizations 
as  that,  "To  be  a  Mormon  simply  means 
that  one  does  not  drink  tea  or  coffee  or 
use  tobacco  or  liquor." 

Now,  we  do  accept  and  try  to  live  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  a  law  of  health,  first 
because  the  Lord  thought  enough  of  it 
to  give  a  revelation  on  it  and  also  be- 
cause for  a  hundred  years  we  have 
proved  its  worth.    But  there  are  other 


things  we  would  like  our  friends  to  know 
about  the  Church,  and  so  for  a  few 
moments  I  would  like  to  discuss  some 
phases  of  Mormonism  which  are  not  so 
generally  known. 

Because  of  limitation  of  time  and  of 
the  speaker,  any  attempted  exposition 
will  be  inadequate  and  incomplete.  I 
should  like  first,  however,  to  say  to  you 
that  the  conduct  of  a  typical  member 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  or  Mormon,  is  influenced 
not  so  much  by  prohibitions,  inhibitions, 
or  Church  discipline  as  by  his  own  inner 
convictions  regarding  the  essential  dig- 
nity and  possible  glory  of  the  individual, 
the  meaning  of  life,  man's  origin,  pur- 
pose, and  possible  destiny. 

Mormonism  is  not  just  a  code  of 
ethics;  it  is  not  merely  a  set  of  inhibitive 
injunctions;  it  is  not  just  a  theoretical 
system  of  doctrine  and  philosophy.  It 
is  rather  a  way  of  life,  based  upon  a  con- 
cept of  God  as  our  Eternal  Father,  and 
of  man,  created  in  the  bodily  image  of 
God,  a  son  of  God,  who  has  all  of  the 
obligations,  opportunities,  and  poten- 
tials of  heirship.  The  Mormon  concept 
of  Deity  with  its  accompanying  concept 
of  man's  potential  Godlike  status,  should 
cause  believers  to  resist  the  down  drag 
of  habits  and  indulgences  which  are 
inimical  to  or  would  impede  or  delay 
man's  progress  towards  his  goal. 

Perhaps  you  would  like  to  take  a 
quick  look  at  Mormonism  through  the 
eyes  of  a  non-member  of  the  Church 
who  has  taken  time  to  study  it.  I  have 
the  author's  permission  to  read  some 
paragraphs  from  a  pamphlet  recently 
published  by  the  department  of  humani- 
ties of  the  Massachusetts  Institute  of 
Technology  under  the  general  caption 
"The  Sociology  of  Mormonism."  These 
studies  were  made  and  written  by  Dr. 
Thomas  F.  O'Dea,  who  has  a  dis- 
tinguished academic  career  at  Harvard, 
at  Stanford,  and  at  M.I.T.  These  writ- 
ings show  careful  study,  keen  analysis, 
and  an  enviable  facility  of  expression. 
I  shall  read  some  excerpts: 

Of  the  many  churches  founded  in  the  re- 
gions south  of  the  Great  Lakes  in  the  first 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  S 

half  of  the  nineteenth  century,  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  or  the 
Mormon  Church  alone  avoided  the  stagnant 
back-waters  of  sectarianism.  The  need  to 
start  over  again  four  times  in  sixteen  years 
contributed  to  flexibility  and  avoided  sec- 
tarian atmosphere  and  culture. 

And  again  he  says, 

In  1847  the  Mormons,  harassed  and  perse- 
cuted, dispossessed  of  all  but  faith,  leader- 
ship and  a  superb  organization,  crossed  the 
plains  and  settled  in  the  Utah  desert.  *  *  * 
The  Mormon  leadership  deliberately  chose 
an  unattractive  region  to  gain  the  necessary 
respite  that  isolation  would  give,  and  re- 
sisted the  seductions  of  more  pleasant 
prospects. 

And  then  speaking  of  our  American- 
ism, he  said: 

Their  American  patriotism  is  an  Article 
of  Faith  with  them.  *  *  *  The  development 
of  a  nationhood  was  inhibited  by  American 
patriotic  convictions  on  the  part  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  themselves.  Mormonism 
sees  America  as  a  chosen  land  and  holds 
that  the  second  coming  of  Christ  will  be  to 
this  continent.  America  is  a  divinely-pre- 
ferred country  and  the  previous  periods  of 
history  were  preparatory  for  the  Mormon 
restoration.  Thus  the  Mormons,  while  ex- 
alting America  and  exulting  in  it,  could  at 
the  same  time  feel  called  out  of  Babylon  to 
build  the  city  of  God.  *  *  *  The  Mormons 
are  pre-eminently  practical  and  are  the  typi- 
cal American  religious  movement.  As  such 
Mormonism  presents  a  heightening,  a  more 
explicit  formulation  and  summation  of  the 
American  experience  of  time  and  of  Amer- 
ica's timeliness. 

The  Mormon  Church  defines  itself  as  a 
restoration  in  the  latter  days  of  the  original 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  had  been 
corrupted  and  lost  in  part  for  the  past  fifteen 
centuries.  Its  restoration  is  conceived  in 
terms  of  Christian  history.  *  *  *  It  is  a 
new  interpretation  of  Christianity  itself.  A 
unique  prophet  and  a  unique  and  timely 
moment  as  well  as  a  uniquely  appropriate 
place  are  part  of  this  conception.  Mormon- 
ism holds  itself  to  have  been  revealed  in 
the  fullness  of  time — a  fullness  of  time 
which  involves  the  destiny  of  the  Western 
Hemisphere  and  the  American  nation.  The 
discovery  of  America  and  the  development 
of  the  political  institutions  of  the  United 
States  are  seen  as  prepared  by  divine  guid- 
ance for  the  restoration  which  was  to  be 
made  through  the  agency  of  the  original 
prophet,  Joseph  Smith. 

Within  this  larger  framework  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  its 
own  history,  a  record  of  wandering  and 


Third  Day 

persecution,  of  construction  and  conquest 
over  hostile  elements  coming  to  fruition  in 
the  building  of  Zion  in  the  mountain  tops. 
*  *  *  Mormonism  lived  its  Exodus  and 
Chronicles  not  once  but  many  times.  It 
had  its  Moses  and  its  Joshua.  Circumstances 
had  given  it  a  stage  upon  which  its  reenact- 
ment  of  Biblical  history  was  neither  farce 
nor  symbolic  pageant. 

Yes,  our  history  has  been  in  part  a 
reenactment  of  biblical  history,  but  what 
is  more  important,  our  doctrine  is  a 
reaffirmation  of  biblical  truth.  We  be- 
lieve in  the  God  of  the  Old  Testament — 
Jehovah,  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac, 
and  Jacob.  We  believe  that  that  Divine 
Personage  became  Jesus  the  Christ  of 
the  New  Testament,  the  Son  of  God,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world.  We  believe 
that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ 
all  mankind  may  be  saved  by  obedience 
to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 
We  emphasize  "all  mankind"  and  "obe- 
dience" because  the  gospel  and  its  sav- 
ing ordinances  are  to  be  made  available 
to  the  living  on  this  eaith,  and  to  the 
living  elsewhere,  with  obedience  as 
prerequisite  to  blessings. 

For  for  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached 
also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might 
be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit. 
(I  Peter  4:6.) 

Believing  as  we  do  in  the  great  vi- 
carious service  of  the  Master  which  is 
the  very  foundation  of  Christianity,  we 
undertake  to  do  for  our  dead,  what  they 
cannot  do  for  themselves,  and  there- 
fore we  build  these  temples  which  vou, 
our  friends,  have  seen  and  of  which 
you  have  heard. 

We  believe  in  a  pre-existent  state 
where  we  exercised  free  agency,  where 
there  were  individual  differences,  where 
life  was  purposeful  and  progressive,  and 
where  man  in  his  original  state  existed 
as  intelligence. 

After  referring  to  "the  inestimable  con- 
tributions to  the  settlement  of  the  West 
and  the  planting  there  of  a  viable  and 
vital  American  civilization,"  Dr.  O'Dea 
says:  "How  remarkably  familiar  are  the 
basic  elements  of  the  Mormon  gospel, 
how  remarkably  like  the  general  appre- 
hension of  America  by  other  Americans 
when  it  sheds  its  theological  poignancy." 
He  refers  to  Mormon  theology  as 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


105 


A  distillation  of  what  is  peculiarly  Amer- 
ican in  America  and  that  by  incorporating 
the  goals  of  the  present  world  into  a  vision 
of  eternal  progression  the  Church  succeeded 
in  annihilating  for  its  followers  the  line  of 
demarcation  between  time  and  eternity  in 
quite  a  new  way. 

For  Mormonism  the  world  is  uncreated 
and  God  and  men  are  winning  mastery  over 
other  uncreated  elements.  God  has  become 
a  demiurge  once  again  *  *  *  which 
means  one  who  works  on  existing  material, 
a  craftsman. 

All  that  is,  is  in  process,  and  it  is  a 
process  that  is  marked  by  two  main 
characteristics:  It  is  becoming  increas- 
ingly more  complex,  and  intelligent 
beings,  God  and  men,  are  collaboratively 
gaining  increasing  mastery  over  it.  Man's 
life  on  earth  is  seen  as  one  of  an  in- 
finity of  episodes  characterized  by  in- 
creasing development  and  mastery  of 
the  other  elements  of  nature.  This  con- 
cept of  God's  purpose  and  method  re- 
specting man's  existence  was  clearly 
stated  by  the  late  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe, 
himself  a  great  scholar  and  a  profound 
student  of  the  gospel, 

The  law  of  progression  is  then  a  law  of 
endless  development  of  all  the  powers  of 
man  in  the  midst  of  a  universe,  becoming 
increasingly  more  complex.  No  more  hope- 
ful principle  can  be  incorporated  into  a 
philosophy  of  life.  (A  Rational  Theology.) 

The  Lord  revealed  in  the  93rd  Section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  verse  29, 

Man  was  also  in  the  beginning  with  God. 
Intelligence,  or  the  light  of  truth,  was  not 
created  or  made,  neither  indeed  can  be. 
*  *  *  For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements 
are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  in- 
separably connected,  receive  a  fulness  of 
joy;  .  .  . 

On  this  point  Dr.  Widtsoe  wrote  as 
follows: 

In  the  beginning,  which  transcends  our 
understanding,  God  undoubtedly  exercised 
his  will  vigorously  and  thus  gained  great 
experience  of  the  forces  lying  about  him. 
As  knowledge  grew  into  greater  knowledge 
by  the  persistent  efforts  of  the  will,  his 
recognition  of  universal  laws  became  greater 
until  he  obtained  at  last  a  conquest  over 
the  universe  which  to  our  finite  under- 
standing seems  absolutely  complete. 

We  proclaim  the  scriptural  and  in- 
spiring doctrine  that  man  should  look 


up  and  not  down  for  his  source,  for  he 
is  of  divine  lineage;  that  man  is  inno- 
cent at  birth,  which  is  the  antithesis  of 
the  ball  and  chain  doctrine  of  original 
sin  and  innate  wickedness. 

Every  spirit  of  man  was  innocent  in  the 
beginning;  and  God  having  redeemed  man 
from  the  fall,  men  became  again,  in  their 
infant  state,  innocent  before  God.  (D  &  C 
93:38.) 

Man  faces  a  vista  of  limitless  develop- 
ment, eternal  progression,  if  he  will  co- 
operate in  winning  mastery  over  him- 
self and  the  universe.  We  believe  that 
man's  earth  life  was  made  possible  by 
Adam's  role  in  a  foreordained  plan 
which  included  the  provision  for  man 
to  come  face  to  face  with  both  good  and 
evil  and,  under  the  eternal  law  of  free 
agency,  elect  good  or  evil  without  com- 
pulsion, knowing  however  that  under 
the  immutable  law  of  the  harvest  he 
must  abide  the  consequences  of  his 
choice,  must  reap  as  he  sows.  Free 
agency  is  prerequisite  to  any  character- 
building  plan,  and  while  with  free 
agency  any  plan  is  inevitably  crammed 
with  risk,  we,  with  all  the  sons  of  God, 
accepted  that  risk  and  shouted  for  joy 
at  the  prospect  of  earth  life.  The  Lord 
said  to  Job, 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  the  earth?  .  .  . 

When  the  morning  stars  sang  together, 
and  all  the  sons  of  God  shouted  for  joy? 
(Job  38:4,  7.) 

If  God  is  in  fact  our  Father,  then  we, 
Father  and  children,  belong  to  the  same 
society  of  eternal  intelligences.  Among 
them  he  is  supreme,  he  is  the  most  ad- 
vanced, most  powerful,  and  most  in- 
telligent. 

Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me,  Abra« 
ham,  the  intelligences  that  were  organized 
before  the  world  was;  and  among  all  these 
there  were  many  of  the  noble  and  great 
ones.  .  .  . 

I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  I  am  more  in- 
telligent than  they  all.  (Abraham  3:22,  19.) 

When  we  say  man  may  become  like 
our  Father,  we  do  not  mean  to  human- 
ize God,  but  rather  to  deify  man — not 
as  he  now  is  but  as  he  may  become. 
The  difference  between  us  is  inde- 
scribably great,  but  it  is  one  of  degree 
rather  than  of  kind. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


106 

Sunday,  April  8 

But  as  many  as  received  him,  to  them 
gave  he  power  to  become  the  sons  of 
God,  .  .  .  (John  1:12.) 

To  the  Latter-day  Saints  salvation  or 
being  saved  does  not  imply  a  sudden 
transformation  or  metamorphosis  into 
something  entirely  unlike  one's  nature 
nor  can  it  be  achieved  by  mere  mental 
assent  or  sudden  conversion.  It  is  rather 
a  continuing  process  of  becoming  or  un- 
folding pursuant  to  law  and  divine  plan, 
of  bringing  one's  life  into  harmony  with 
eternal  and  inexorable  law. 

We  believe  that  in  his  infinite  and 
eternal  development  toward  a  Godlike 
status,  man  moves  toward  and  through 
a  turnstile  called  death;  that  there  is  no 
interruption  of  life  at  this  portal,  for 
eternity  is  indefinitely  prolonged  time. 
We  believe  that  man,  after  passing 
through  this  turnstile,  will  continue  his 
eternal  journey  from  the  point  where 
his  actions  in  this  life  have  brought  him. 
"Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we 
attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will  rise  with 
us  in  the  resurrection."  (D  &  C  130:18.) 
To  deny  the  possibility  of  eternal  pro- 
gression is  to  accept  the  awful  alterna- 
tive of  eventual  stagnation  which  would 
be  damnation. 

We  believe  that  being  saved  involves 
education,  that  man  cannot  be  saved  in 
ignorance  any  more  than  he  can  be 
saved  in  sin,  for  as  the  glory  of  God  is 
intelligence,  or  light  and  truth,  so  the 
degree  of  our  intelligence  will  be  the 
measure  of  our  glory.  Neither  the  ig- 
norant nor  the  sinner  would  be  com- 
fortable or  at  home  in  heaven.  This 
concept  glorifies  intelligence  as  well  as 
righteousness.  But  let  us  not  confuse 
mere  knowledge  with  intelligence.  The 
knowledge  of  which  we  speak  must  seek 
enlightenment  and  be  applied  with 
wisdom.  The  knowledge  that  will  save 
us  is  not  mere  know-how,  certainly  not 
cunning  or  mental  agility  or  sagacity; 
it  is  not  just  erudition.  The  wise  man 
may  not  be  learned,  and  the  learned  are 
not  always  wise.  The  intelligence  which 
is  the  glory  of  God  is  all  knowledge 
(and  knowledge  is  power)  applied  with 
supreme  wisdom  and  total  righteousness. 

Time  will  not  permit  a  further  dis- 
cussion of  our  teachings  with  respect  to 
some  of  the  things  that  Dr.  O'Dea  has 
mentioned.  Suffice  it  to  say  that  Mor- 
monism,  among  other  things,  is  an  eter- 


Third  Day 

nal  quest  for  knowledge  which  is  power, 
for  truth  which  is  joyous  because  it 
makes  us  free,  for  intelligence,  which 
is  the  glory  of  God,  and  for  the  right- 
eousness which  will  enable  us  to  feel  at 
home  in  his  holy  presence. 

God  help  us  to  live  worthily  and  to 
go  forward  fearlessly  in  our  search  for 
truth,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

For  a  few  moments  we  should  like  to 
add  some  words  of  appreciation  be- 
cause many  on  the  Coast  who  are  look- 
ing at  their  televisions  may  not  be  with 
us  this  afternoon.  The  attendance  at 
the  Priesthood  Meeting  last  evening 
should  be  changed  because  of  some  tele- 
grams that  have  come  in.  We  gave  you 
the  number  of  29,371;  1809  should  be 
added  to  that,  making  a  total  of  31,180 
men  holding  the  Priesthood  assembled 
in  the  Priesthood  Meeting  last  evening. 

Words  of  welcome  were  extended  to 
you  educators  this  morning  and  we  are 
glad.  We  have  seen  and  hope  that  we 
have  present  others,  John  L.  Clarke, 
President  of  Ricks  College;  President 
Lester  Whetten  of  Snow  College;  Ar- 
thur F.  Bruhn  of  Dixie  College.  We 
have  not  seen  Dr.  Braithwaite  of 
U.S.A.C.  Branch,  and  I  am  not  sure 
whether  William  Miller  of  Weber  is 
present.  We  welcome  these  and  two 
other  groups,  the  presence  of  members 
of  which  indicates  the  extent  of  the  at- 
tendance at  this  great  Conference:  our 
mission  presidents  who  represent  areas 
from  Guatemala,  Mexico,  on  the  south, 
to  Canada  on  the  north,  and  our  serv- 
icemen who  represent  boys  in  the 
service  from  Greenland  on  the  north  to 
Texas  on  the  south.  God  bless  them. 

We  should  like  to  express  apprecia- 
tion, too,  before  we  dismiss  at  this 
time  to  those  who  have  sent  these  beau- 
tiful flowers  that  adorn  the  rostrum.  The 
Berkeley  Stake  has  graciously  furnished 
us  flowers  to  beautify  this  building;  the 
calla  lilies  are  messengers  of  their  af- 
fection and  loyal  support.  We  thank  the 
members  of  this  stake  for  these  gifts. 
Sister  Mary  R.  Persson  of  Woodland, 
California,  sent  calla  lilies  and  in  the 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


107 


note  that  accompanied  it,  I  read  "Grown 
in  my  own  garden."  We  wish  to  extend 
our  thanks  to  this  lady,  and  to  the  Puy- 
allup  Daffodil  Festival,  who  through 
the  Tacoma  Stake  in  the  north  sent 
these  beautiful  daffodils. 

Expression  of  appreciation  to  others, 
many  others,  we  can  give  at  the  close 
of  meeting  this  afternoon. 

The  singing  this  morning  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  and 
Alexander  Schreiner  has  been  at  the  or- 
gan. The  closing  song  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  will  be,  "Glorious,  Ever- 


lasting." The  closing  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Alonzo  F.  Hopkin, 
president  of  the  Woodruff  Stake,  fol- 
lowing which  this  Conference  will  stand 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  after- 


noon. 


'Glor- 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem, 
ious,  Everlasting." 

Elder  Alonzo  F.  Hopkin,  president  of 
the  Woodruff  Stake,  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference convened  at  2  o'clock  p.m.  Sun- 
day, April  8,  1956. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under 
the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  music  for  this  the  seventh  and 
concluding  session  of  the  126th  An- 
nual Conference  will  be  rendered  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direc- 
tion of  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  with 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  this  after- 
noon by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Men's 
Chorus  singing  "O  My  Father,"  Elder 
Cornwall  conducting,  and  the  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Dee  Lloyd  An- 
dreasen,  president  of  the  Bannock  Stake. 


President  Dee  L.  Andreasen,  presi- 
dent of  the  Bannock  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
Elder  Dee  Lloyd  Andreasen,  president 
of  the  Bannock  Stake.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  will  now  sing,  "Beautiful  Savior," 
after  which  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  address 
us. 


The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "O  My 
Father." 


The  Choir  sang  the  anthem,  "Beauti- 
ful Savior." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  same 
Council. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Several  days  ago  my  attention  was 
attracted  to  a  picture  in  one  of  the 
local  newspapers.  The  picture  shows 
two  men  with  a  shovel  setting  a  high- 
way sign.  Within  the  block  "U,"  which 
is  the  official  designation  of  the  Utah 
state  highway  department,  is  the  figure 


187,  and  then  a  sign  underneath  the 
block  "U,"  which  reads:  "The  shortest 
designated  highway  in  the  state."  Then 
I  read  the  cutlines  underneath  and  the 
accompanying  article  which  described 
this  short  highway  as  being  only  one- 
quarter  of  a  mile  in  length.    It  curved 


108 

Sunday,  April  8 

gracefully  off  to  the  right  of  the  main 
highway  91  going  south  and  led  down 
over  the  brow  of  the  hill,  seemingly  to 
invite  anyone  who  wanted  to  travel  that 
pleasant  way.  Then  I  looked  more 
closely  to  see  what  the  picture  was.  One 
of  the  men  in  the  picture  was  the  war- 
den of  the  Utah  State  Penitentiary,  and 
the  other  was  a  member  of  the  state 
prison  board.  The  highway  marked  U 
187  led  to  a  building  which  I  could 
distinguish  at  the  foot  of  the  hill.  With 
somewhat  of  a  shock  I  recognized  this 
building  as  the  Utah  State  Penitentiary. 
The  shortest  designated  highway  in  the 
state  was  a  wide  paved  road  from  the 
mainly  traveled  road  to  the  state  prison  I 

If  I  could  get  the  spirit  of  this  great 
conference,  I  think  probably  I  would 
like  to  title  the  few  words  of  my  brief 
address  this  afternoon  as  "The  Shortest 
Designated  Highway  in  Life"  and  draw 
something  of  a  parallel  to  that  other 
"shortest  designated  highway"  to  which 
I  have  made  reference.  As  I  seek  for 
that  guidance,  my  earnest  prayer  would 
be  that  what  I  say  would  be  in  harmony 
with  the  great  messages  of  our  beloved 
leaders,  the  First  Presidency.  I  suppose 
there  is  nothing  that  a  General  Author- 
ity desires  more  than  that  what  he  does 
and  what  he  says  will  be  in  harmony 
with  their  desires,  and  more  than  that, 
what  he  says  would  be  in  harmony 
with  Him  of  whom  we  have  sung  so 
beautifully  at  the  opening  of  this  service. 

This  other  highway  in  life  is  also 
broad.  It  is  a  way  to  destruction,  as  the 
Master  explained  to  his  disciples  when 
he  said  in  a  very  significant  statement, 

...  for  wide  is  the  gate,  and  broad  is 
the  way,  that  leadeth  to  destruction,  and 
many  there  be  which  go  in  thereat.  (Matt. 
7:13.) 

I  would  like  now  for  the  next  few 
minutes  to  talk  about  that  highway  be- 
cause it  is  clearly  blueprinted  in  the 
records  of  life  which  the  Lord  has  given 
us.  I  remember  a  remark  the  late  Presi- 
dent Charles  A.  Callis  made  to  me  one 
day — we  were  talking  about  some  of 
these  matters,  and  he  remarked,  "You 
know,  I  think  that  probably  the  most 
important  thing  we  as  General  Authori- 
ties ought  to  be  preaching  is  not  only 
repentance  from  sin,  but  even  more  im- 
portant than  that,  to  teach  the  young 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

people  particularly,  and  the  entire 
Church  generally,  the  awfulness  of  sin 
and  the  terror  that  follows  him  who  has 
so  indulged." 

Years  of  experience  since  that  time 
and  interviews  with  those  who  have  un- 
fortunately taken  that  short,  broad 
highway,  have  convinced  me  that  be- 
cause of  their  suffering,  those  who  have 
or  are  living  lives  of  unrepented  sinning 
would  have  given  all  that  they  possessed 
if  someone  could  have  warned  them  and 
could  have  told  them  of  the  awfulness 
of  the  sins  from  which  they  now  suffer. 

Nephi  predicted  and  spoke  of  the  sad 
state  of  those  who  habitually  sinned  and 
would  not  repent  when  he  said: 

For  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  not  always 
strive  with  man.  And  when  the  Spirit 
ceaseth  to  strive  with  man  then  cometh 
speedy  destruction,  and  this  grieveth  my  soul. 
(2  Nephi  26:11.) 

Mormon  described  some  people,  his 
people,  from  whom  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  had  departed,  and  when  I  read 
that  and  then  read  what  I  shall  now 
read  to  you,  it  seems  clear  to  me  that 
what  he  was  talking  about  was  not 
merely  the  inability  to  have  the  com- 
panionship of  or  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  but  he  was  talking  of  that  light 
of  truth  to  which  every  one  born  into 
the  world  is  entitled  and  will  never 
cease  to  strive  with  the  individual  unless 
he  loses  it  through  his  own  sinning.  This 
is  what  Mormon  said: 

For  behold,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  hath 
already  ceased  to  strive  with  their  fathers; 
and  they  are  without  Christ  and  God  in 
the  world;  and  they  are  driven  about  as 
chaff  before  the  wind. 

.  .  .  behold,  they  are  led  about  by  Satan, 
even  as  chaff  is  driven  before  the  wind,  or 
as  an  vessel  is  tossed  about  upon  the  waves, 
without  sail  or  anchor,  or  without  anything 
wherewith  to  steer  her;  and  even  as  she  is, 
so  are  they.  (Mormon  5:16,  18.) 

The  story  is  told  of  the  late  President 
Calvin  Coolidge  who  was  a  master  of 
few  words  in  his  expressions.  He  came 
home  from  his  church  meeting  one 
morning,  and  his  wife  asked,  "What 
did  the  preacher  talk  about  this  morn- 
ing?" His  reply  was,  "Sin."  She  again 
asked  "What  did  the  minister  say  about 
it?"  His  reply  was,  "The  minister  was 
agin'  it."   And  so  are  all  preachers  of 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


109 


righteousness,  they  are  against  this  thing 
called  sin. 

What  is  sin?  The  Apostle  John  de- 
scribed it  or  defined  it  as  the  transgres- 
sion of  the  law. 

Whosoever  committeth  sin  transgresseth 
also  the  law:  for  sin  is  the  transgression  of 
the  law.  (I  John  3:4.) 

Brigham  Young  made  that  definition 
still  more  meaningful  when  he  said 
that  "Sin  consists  in  doing  wrong  when 
we  know  and  can  do  better  and  it  will 
be  punished  with  a  just  retribution  in 
the  due  time  of  the  Lord."  (J  of  D 
2:242.) 

The  source  of  sin  is  a  subject  oft  de- 
bated and  theorized  by  philosophers  and 
others  as  to  how  it  originates  and  from 
whence  it  comes,  but  we  with  the  sacred 
scriptures  are  left  with  a  certainty 
which  removes  all  question  as  to  the 
author  and  the  beginning  of  sin.  The 
record  tells  us  that  Satan  came  among 
the  children  of  Adam  and  Eve  and  said 
unto  them: 

I  am  also  a  son  of  God;  and  he  com- 
manded them,  saying:  Believe  it  not;  and 
they  believed  it  not,  and  they  loved  Satan 
more  than  God.  And  men  began  from  that 
time  forth  to  be  carnal,  sensual,  and  devilish. 
(Moses  5:13.) 

And  then  King  Benjamin  taught: 

.  .  .  neither  will  ye  suffer  that  they  trans- 
gress the  laws  of  God,  and  fight  and  quarrel 
one  with  another,  and  serve  the  devil,  who 
is  the  master  of  sin,  or  who  is  the  evil  spirit 
which  hath  been  spoken  of  by  our  fathers, 
he  being  an  enemy  to  all  righteousness. 
(Mosiah  4:14.) 

The  Master  understood  how  powerful 
was  this  master  of  sin  when  he  spoke 
of  him  as  the  "Prince  of  this  world," 
and  he  taught  his  disciples  to  pray  that 
they  might  not  be  led  into  temptation. 

This  like  that  other  highway  to  the 
Utah  state  prison  is  also  a  very  short 
highway  down  the  road  of  sin.  You 
will  remember  the  Lord's  warning  to 
Cain  when  he  said, 

If  thou  doest  well,  shalt  thou  not  be  ac- 
cepted? and  if  thou  doest  not  well,  sin  lieth 
at  the  door.  .  .  .  (Gen.  4:7.) 

It  is  just  that  short  to  the  way  of  sin — 
right  at  our  very  doors. 


Now  the  scriptures  have  told  us  about 
the  identity  of  those  who  are  going  to 
inhabit  that  prison  which  lies  at  the 
end  of  that  short  highway: 

These  are  they  who  are  liars,  and  sorcerers, 
and  adulterers,  and  whoremongers,  and  who- 
soever loves  and  makes  a  lie. 

These  are  they  who  suffer  the  wrath  of 
God  on  earth. 

These  are  they  who  suffer  the  vengeance 
of  eternal  fire. 

These  are  they  who  are  cast  down  to  hell 
[and  that  is  the  name  of  the  prison]  and 
suffer  the  wrath  of  Almighty  God,  until  the 
fulness  of  times,  when  Christ  shall  have 
subdued  all  enemies  under  his  feet,  and  shall 
have  perfected  his  work.  (D  &  C  76:103- 
106.) 

And  again,  the  nature  of  the  punish- 
ment which  shall  be  received  in  that  pri- 
son is  clearly  explained: 

"For  behold,"  said  the  prophet  Amu- 
lek,  "if  ye  have  procrastinated  the  day 
of  your  repentance  even  until  death, 
behold,  ye  have  become  subjected  to 
the  spirit  of  the  devil,  and  he  doth  seal 
you  his;  therefore  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
hath  withdrawn  from  you,  and  hath  no 
place  in  you,  and  the  devil  hath  all 
power  over  you;  and  this  is  the  final 
state  of  the  wicked."  (Alma  34:35.) 

Now  as  to  the  location  of  that  place, 
reference  is  made  to  it  in  these  words: 

And  the  end  thereof,  neither  the  place 
thereof,  nor  their  torment,  no  man  knows. 
(D  &  C  76:45.) 

Like  all  broad  highways  of  life  which 
beckon  to  that  prison,  there  are  allure- 
ments which  we  are  oftimes  encouraged 
to  follow.  As  Father  Lehi  explained 
to  his  son,  Jacob 

...  it  must  needs  be  that  there  was  an 
opposition;  even  the  forbidden  fruit  in  op- 
position to  the  tree  of  life;  the  one  being 
sweet  and  the  other  bitter.  (2  Nephi  2:15.) 

In  other  words,  he  set  the  tree  of  the 
knowledge  of  good  and  evil  in  opposi- 
tion to  the  tree  of  life.  The  fruit  of 
the  one  which  was  "bitter"  was  the  tree 
of  life,  and  the  forbidden  fruit  was  the 
one  which  was  "sweet  to  the  taste." 

James  Russell  Lowell  caught  this  great 
truth  in  his  poem,  "The  Present  Crisis:" 

Careless  seems  the  great  Avenger;  history's 
pages  but  record 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  8 

One  death-grapple  in  the  darkness  'twixt  old 
systems  and  the  word; 

Truth  forever  on  the  scaffold,  wrong  for- 
ever on  the  throne, 

Yet  that  scaffold  sways  the  future,  and,  be- 
hind the  dim  unknown 

Standeth  God  within  the  shadow,  keeping 
watch  above  his  own. 

We  see  some  of  the  signs  which  like 
the  signs  to  the  state  penitentiary  we 
know  lead  us  downward.  Some  are 
called  taverns;  some  are  called  lounges; 
and  some  are  called  roadhouses.  They 
have  bright,  neon-lighted  signs  outside 
with  catch-phrase  names.  They  are 
dimly  lighted  inside;  they  have  sensuous 
music.  These  are  the  unmistakable 
trademarks  of  the  hell  holes  of  Satan. 

Nephi  spoke  of  some  teachings  against 
which  we  must  be  on  guard  lest  we  fol- 
low that  road,  when  he  said  that  in  a 
day  to  come,  which  we  realize  now  is 
our  day,  there  would  be  those  who 
would  "teach  us  to  become  angry  against 
that  which  is  good,  to  lull  us  away  into 
carnal  security  and  to  flatter  us  by  tell- 
ing us  there  is  no  devil,  there  is  no 
hell."  (See  2  Nephi  28:20-22.) 

In  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith's 
impressive  discourse  this  morning  over 
the  CBS  broadcast,  he  explained  the 
meaning  and  the  need  of  a  Redeemer, 
in  order  to  redeem  a  "fallen"  world. 
The  "fall,"  by  which  men  became  sub- 
ject to  the  temptation  of  the  devil,  is 
as  necessary  to  the  progress  of  man  as 
is  the  creation. 

Dr.  J.  M.  Sjodahl  makes  this  rather 
interesting  comment: 

Some  have  asserted  that  the  story  of  the 
fall  is  but  a  myth,  or  an  allegory,  but  it  is 
given  in  the  Scriptures  as  part  of  the  history 
of  the  human  family,  and  must  be  either 
accepted  as  such,  or  rejected  as  fiction.  The 
fall  was  as  necessary  for  the  development 
of  the  race  as  was  the  creation. 

Now  mark  you  this  statement:  "The 
story  of  the  first  fall  is,  moveover,  the 
story  of  every  sin."  (D  &  C  Commentary, 
1919  edition,  p.  211.) 

Now  consider,  for  illustration,  the 
various  sins;  the  breaking  of  the  Word 
of  Wisdom,  unchastity,  dishonesty,  etc. 
and  then  think  of  what  is  said  here: 

Temptation  begins  with  doubt  as  to  the 
truth  of  the  prohibition.  "Has  God  said?" 
[is  always  the  question  of  him  who  doubts 


Third  Day 

and  is  tempted  to  sin.]  "It  is  continued  by 
a  contemplation  of  the  pleasure  that  may 
be  derived  from  doing  that  which  has  been 
prohibited.  It  ends  with  a  sense  of  shame 
and  degradation  and  dread  of  the  presence 
of  God.  Such  is  the  beginning  and  develop- 
ment of  every  transgression.  (Idem.) 

Now  the  way  to  eternal  life  has  for- 
tunately been  marked  out  just  as  plain- 
ly. There  sits  in  this  congregation  a 
young  woman  who  was  about  to  fail 
in  her  faith  because  of  a  sudden  sorrow 
which  she  was  not  quite  prepared  to 
bridge  over  after  having  been  a  convert 
of  a  few  years.  She  had  a  dream  in 
which  she  saw  herself  going  back  to 
the  church  of  her  previous  acquaintance. 
As  she  drove  along  in  her  car,  she  came 
to  a  road  which  she  took  only  to  find 
that  it  was  a  road  under  construction, 
and  after  ten  tortuous  miles  returning 
she  found  to  her  amazement  that  there 
were  plain  warning  signs  all  along  the 
way  which,  if  she  had  observed,  would 
have  guided  her  along  a  safe  detour 
road  and  passed  the  shoals  of  difficulty. 

Well,  the  Master  said  it: 

Enter  ye  in  at  the  strait  gate:  .  .  . 

Because  strait  is  the  gate,  and  narrow  is 
the  way,  which  leadeth  unto  life,  and  few 
there  be  that  find  it.  (Matt.  7:13-14.) 

As  Jesus  was  teaching  in  the  cities  and 
villages  towards  Jerusalem  as  to  what 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  was  like,  one 
asked  him,  "Are  there  few  that  be 
saved?"  That  question  reminded  me  of 
the  remark  of  a  good  friend  of  mine 
who  had  heard  one  of  the  brethren 
talk  about  the  requirements  in  order  to 
attain  the  celestial  kingdom.  This 
friend  said  to  me  somewhat  wearily 
after  he  had  heard  the  sermon,  "He  has 
made  it  so  difficult  that  I  don't  think 
anyone  could  qualify  for  the  celestial 
kingdom." 

Contrary  to  that,  the  Master  said, 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of 
me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly  in  heart: 
and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is 
light."  (Matt.  11:29-30.) 

When  you  think  about  it  there  is  so 
much  promised  in  the  gospel  for  so  lit- 
tle required  on  our  part;  for  example, 
the  ordinance  of  baptism  is  given  us 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  for  entrance 
into  the  kingdom — a  new  birth;  the  gift 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


111 


of  the  Holy  Ghost  gives  us  the  right  to 
companionship  with  one  of  the  God- 
head; administration  to  the  sick,  quali- 
fies the  individual  with  faith  for  a  special 
blessing;  by  paying  our  tithing,  the 
windows  of  heaven  may  be  opened  unto 
us;  by  fasting  and  by  paying  our  fast 
offerings,  we  are  told  that  then  we  might 
call  on  the  Lord  and  he  will  hear  our 
cry  and  our  call;  celestial  marriage 
promises  us  that  family  life  will  exist 
beyond  the  grave.  But  all  of  these 
blessings  are  ours  on  one  condition,  and 
this  is  spoken  of  by  Nephi,  when  he 
said: 

For  we  labor  diligently  to  write,  to  per- 
suade our  children  and  also  our  brethren,  to 
believe  in  Christ,  and  to  be  reconciled  to 
God;  for  we  know  that  it  is  by  grace  that 
we  are  saved,  [but  mark  you  this  condition,] 
after  all  we  can  do.  (2  Nephi  25:23.  Italics 
added.) 

The  Master  did  not  directly  answer 
that  question,  "Are  there  few  that  be 
saved?"  But  he  answered,  "Strive  to 
enter  in  at  the  strait  gate."  Strive  means 
to  struggle  in  opposition  or  contention, 
to  contend,  to  battle  for  or  against  a 
person  or  a  thing  opposed,  to  strive  as 
against  temptation,  and  to  strive  for 
truth. 

Well,  in  all  that  striving,  remember 
Temple  Bailey's  parable  for  mothers: 
"The  young  mother  said  to  the  guide 
at  the  beginning  of  her  way,  'Is  the  way 
long?'  And  the  guide  replied,  'Yes,  and 
the  way  is  hard,  and  you  will  be  old 
before  you  reach  the  end  of  it.  But  the 
end  will  be  better  than  the  beginning.'  " 

Oh,  that  we  might  think  of  these 
warnings  and  remember  the  prayer  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  in  the  midst  of  his 
persecutions,  when  he  cried  out,  asking 
why  the  Lord  would  not  see  and  hear 
the  sufferings  of  the  Saints,  and  then 
hear  the  Lord  answer: 


My  son,  peace  be  unto  thy  soul;  thine 
adversity  and  thine  afflictions  shall  be  but 
a  small  moment; 

And  then,  if  thou  endure  it  well,  God  shall 
exalt  thee  on  high;  thou  shalt  triumph  over 
all  thy  foes.  (D  &  C  121:7-8.) 

Oh,  may  we  pray  the  prayer  of  the 
Alcoholics  Anonymous,  those  men  who 
are  striving  to  come  back:  "O  Lord," 
they  pray,  "give  me  the  humility  to  ac- 
cept the  things  I  cannot  change,  and 
the  courage  to  change  the  things  I  can 
change,  and  then  the  wisdom  to  tell  the 
difference." 

And  may  we  pray  that  prayer  which 
I  heard  set  to  beautiful  music  at  a  stake 
conference  just  recently: 

Lord,  when  the  twilight  of  life  is  falling 
Help  me  and  guide  me  where  you  want  me. 
Lord,  when  I  hear  that  your  voice  is  calling, 
Make  me  worthy  to  abide  with  thee. 

Lord,  when  I  feel  that  at  times  I'm  straying 
Lead  me,  O  Lord,  lead  me  aright. 
Send  forth  thy  light  and  thy  love  I'm  pray- 
ing 

That  the  dark  and  dreary  way  be  bright. 

Lord,  give  me  faith  that  I  may  heed  thy  call 
Lord,  give  me  strength  that  I  may  never  fall. 
Help  me  to  find  the  path  that  thou  hast 
trod, 

Help  me  to  love,  and  obey  thee,  my  Lord, 
my  God. 

— C.  S.  Thornwall 

Which  I  pray  humbly  for  all  of  us, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris  of  the  same  Council 
will  now  speak  to  us.  He  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Christiansen. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


"y  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have 
enjoyed  thoroughly  these  wonder- 
ful conference  sessions,  and  now  in 
this  position  I  sincerely  pray  that 
the  beautiful  spirit  that  has  pervaded 
every  session  may  lead  me  to  say  that 


which  is  true  and  what  the  Lord  would 
have  me  say. 

I  had  thought  I  might  say  something 
about  the  atonement.  I  was  just  fresh- 
ening up  on  it  this  morning  a  few 
minutes  before  eight,  but  I  wanted  to 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  S 

tune  in  and  hear  President  Smith's  talk, 
and  as  I  tuned  in  I  thought  to  myself, 
"I  am  sure  that  President  Smith  is  go- 
ing to  talk  about  the  atonement,"  which 
he  did.  So  I  refer  you  to  his  beautiful 
talk  this  morning,  concise  and  authori- 
tative, and  I  say  "amen"  to  it. 

I  should  like  to  mention  in  the  few 
moments  that  I  shall  be  here,  something 
with  relation  to  the  atonement,  and  that 
it  might  be  fresh  in  your  mind,  I  wish 
to  read  that  beautiful  statement  of  Lehi, 
the  great  prophet,  referring  to  certain 
aspects  of  the  atonement: 

And  now,  behold,  if  Adam  had  not  trans- 
gressed he  would  not  have  fallen,  but  he 
would  have  remained  in  the  garden  of  Eden. 
And  all  things  which  were  created  must 
have  remained  in  the  same  state  in  which 
they  were  after  they  were  created;  and  they 
must  have  remained  forever,  and  had  no 
end. 

And  they  would  have  had  no  children; 
wherefore  they  would  have  remained  in 
a  state  of  innocence,  having  no  joy,  for 
they  knew  no  misery;  doing  no  good,  for 
they  knew  no  sin. 

But  behold,  all  things  have  been  done 
in  the  wisdom  of  him  who  knoweth  all 
things. 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men 
are,  that  they  might  have  joy.  (2  Nephi 
2:22-25.) 

What  a  wonderful  statement  that  is. 
So  it  was  the  design  of  our  Father  in 
heaven  that  man  should  have  an  earth 
experience  and  that  Adam  should  fall 
and  that  transgression  and  sin  should 
come  into  the  world  which  called  for 
the  atonement. 

Now,  I  think  the  principle  question 
before  us  is  not  do  we  comprehend  the 
atonement,  but  do  we  accept  it  and 
know  that  it  is  true.  Many  things  about 
us  we  do  not  comprehend;  as  one 
speaker  said,  with  respect  to  electricity, 
the  scientific  men  say  they  do  not  know 
all  about  it,  do  not  know  much  about 
it,  they  do  not  know  what  it  is.  They 
know  how  it  acts,  but  they  do  not  know 
why  it  acts,  and  yet  we  all  avail  our- 
selves of  the  blessing  of  electricity  with- 
out comprehending  it. 

I  think  it  is  exactly  the  same  with 
the  glorious  principle  of  atonement.  If 
electricity  in  our  highly  developed  civi- 
lization were  taken  out  of  our  lives,  our 
civilization  would  stop,  it  is  so  integrated 
into  our  activities.   And  if  the  principle 


Third  Day 

of  the  atonement  were  taken  away,  what 
would  be  the  result?  We  would  have 
no  Jewish  scriptures,  we  would  have  no 
Jewish  people.  There  would  have  been 
no  covenant  with  Abraham.  We  would 
have  no  New  Testament.  We  would 
have  no  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  the 
atonement  is  the  foundation  of  it  all. 

And  what  would  spirit  world  existence 
mean,  what  objective  would  it  have,  if 
there  were  nothing  beyond  our  existence 
in  the  spirit  world,  because  God  found 
it  necessary  for  us  to  come  to  the  earth 
to  get  our  experience,  to  gain  a  body,  to 
pass  through  death,  to  be  raised  an  im- 
mortalized and  glorified  being  so  that 
we  might  go  on  to  perfection.  Without 
the  atonement  there  would  have  been 
no  creation  of  an  earth  because  that 
would  have  meant  that  we  would  have 
all  come  to  the  earth  as  is  stated  by 
Lehi,  and  after  transgression  had  oc- 
curred, death  would  follow,  and  the 
earth  would  be  merely  the  eternal  grave- 
yard of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God. 
That  would  have  been  the  end. 

The  Lord  would  not  undertake  to 
create  an  earth  for  that  end.  An  earth 
life  would  never  have  been  planned  ex- 
cept for  this  glorious  principle  of  the 
atonement.  And  would  we  have  an 
heaven  without  the  principle  of  the 
atonement,  would  we  ever  have  had  an 
existence  in  heaven  as  spirit  children 
of  God  without  the  atonement,  for  God 
the  Eternal  Father  is  a  being,  a  Glorified 
Being  of  flesh  and  bone,  exalted  and 
celestialized,  and  that  comes  through 
death  and  the  resurrection  by  means  of 
the  atonement.  Unless  spirit  and  matter 
are  inseparably  connected,  we  cannot 
have  a  fulness  of  joy.  And  if  they  are 
so  connected,  we  may  have  joy  in  its 
fullest  degree,  which  I  would  say  means 
attainment,  achievement,  exaltation.  We 
must  come  to  the  earth;  we  must  have 
earth  life;  we  must  go  through  death; 
and  we  must  be  exalted  and  glorified 
through  the  power  of  God  and  through 
the  gospel  and  the  resurrection. 

None  of  these  things  would  have  been 
possible  or  contemplated  or  planned  or 
carried  out  without  this  glorious  princi- 
ple of  atonement,  the  Son  of  God  dying 
for  all  the  children  of  men.  We  may 
not  be  able  to  comprehend  it,  in  its 
fulness,  but  we  can  know  it,  and  we 
can  understand  how  the  Son  of  God, 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


113 


the  Firstborn  among  all  the  children  of 
God,  dying  for  all  the  rest,  would  gain 
power  and  influence  over  the  children 
of  men,  and  we  can  understand  what 
their  love  should  be  for  him  and  their 
devotion  should  be  towards  him  be- 
cause his  suffering  was  such  that  no 
human  being  could  endure  it.  He  ac- 
cepted it.  It  was  so  terrible  that  he 
almost  wished  that  he  might  not  have 
to  endure  it.  But  he  accepted  it  and 
glorified  his  Father  in  heaven  and  made 
possible  our  earth  life,  our  resurrection, 
our  exaltation,  and  the  blessings  of 
eternal  life. 

It  is  impossible  for  me  to  understand 
why  so-called  Christian  men  and  men 
of  intelligence  try  to  rob  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  of  his  Messiahship.  It  can  only 
be  because  of  their  darkness.  Scholar- 
ship, barren  and  cold,  does  not  compre- 
hend life  and  does  not  give  us  the  key 
to  this  life. 

Our  relationship  with  God  our  Eter- 
nal Father  is  a  relationship  of  our 
hearts,  and  a  pure  heart  is  wiser  and 
more  intelligent  than  a  barren  intellect. 

We  are  called  upon  to  love  God  with 
all  our  hearts  and  our  fellow  men  as 
ourselves;  and  by  this  glorious  principle 
of  the  atonement,  we  are  here  today 
through  the  mercy  and  blessings  of  God. 

May  we  always  remember  that  we  are 
the  children  of  God;  may  we  live  like 
the  children  of  God.  Thank  God  for 
the  truth,  the  most  glorious,  the  strong- 
est, most  wonderful  thing  in  the  world 
or  in  the  eternities.  Thank  God  for  the 
restored  truth.  I  bear  my  witness  that 
the  truth  is  here  in  this  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God,  and  the  power  of  God 
is  here  unto  our  salvation.  Jesus  Christ 
is  our  Messiah;  he  said  those  who  would 
not  accept  his  Messiahship  would  die  in 
their  sins,  and  I  bear  witness  this  is 
true,  and  that  those  who  will  accept  his 
Messiahship  may  be  redeemed  and 
exalted. 

I  bear  my  humble  witness  that  Joseph 


Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  Living  God, 
through  whom  the  Lord  restored  these 
glorious  truths  for  the  salvation  of  the 
human  family.  I  thank  God  for  him 
and  his  successors,  and  I  bear  witness 
that  all  the  keys  and  powers  that  the 
Lord  gave  to  Peter,  James,  and  John  are 
here  resident  now  in  those  who  are  in 
our  midst.  May  God  help  us  to  be  true 
in  all  things,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  Just  addressed 
us. 

We  have  had  many  telegrams  stat- 
ing how  well  the  exercises,  addresses, 
and  testimonies  of  this  Conference  have 
gone  over  the  various  radio  stations.  We 
cannot  read  them  all,  but  here  is  one 
that  has  just  come,  which  I  am  con- 
strained to  read  for  the  benefit  of  par- 
ents who  may  have  boys  in  this  group. 
It  is  addressed  to  the  General  Authori- 
ties from  Fort  Knox: 

"Though  unable  to  be  present  at  Con- 
ference or  reach  you  by  radio  or  tele- 
vision our  thoughts  and  prayers  are 
with  you.  We  sustain  you  in  your  call- 
ings. With  the  help  of  the  Lord  our 
servicemen's  group  is  prospering  here  at 
Fort  Knox.  Fort  Knox  Servicemen's 
group,  Melvin  Banner,  President." 

And  here  is  one  just  handed  in  from 
Elder  Benson: 

"Washington.  President  David  O. 
McKay.  My  thoughts  and  prayers  are 
with  you  all  in  Conference.  My  lone- 
liness was  eased  this  afternoon  when  a 
member  of  the  Washington  Stake  presi- 
dency returned  from  Salt  Lake  and  re- 
ported the  inspirational  Priesthood 
Meeting  of  last  night  to  an  overflow 
meeting  in  the  Washington  Chapel.  Af- 
fectionate greetings  to  all.  God  bless 
you.  Ezra  Taft  Benson." 

Elder  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen,  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


The  wonderful  addresses,  the  singing, 
and  all  that  has  pertained  to  the 
conference,  including  the  prayers  of 
the  brethren,  have  found  lodgment  in 


my  soul.  I  am  determined  to  leave 
here  and  live  a  better  life,  and  to  do 
some  things  better  that  I  may  not  have 
done  so  well.    I  hope,  brethren  and 


114 

Sunday,  April  8 

sisters,  that  all  of  us  will  have  that  de- 
termination. Someone  said,  "He  who 
learns  and  learns  and  acts  not  what  he 
knows,  is  like  the  man  who  plows  and 
plows  and  never  sows."  So  I  hope  that 
we  can  go  from  here  and  sow  seeds  of 
righteousness  in  our  own  homes  and 
hearts  and  among  others. 

Now  I  pray  in  all  humility  that  my 
brief  and  sketchy  message  may  not  de- 
tract from  that  which  has  been  said 
and  that  I  may  have  your  sympathy  and 
prayers  in  presenting  what  I  have  to 
say.  I  speak  in  the  spirit  of  commenda- 
tion and  encouragement  and  not  in 
the  way  of  fault-finding  or  criticism. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  there  is  a  need  in  the  world  for 
emphasis  to  be  given  to  a  great  princi- 
ple of  which  the  Lord  has  spoken  many 
times  and  which  his  apostles,  old  and 
modern,  have  advocated.  That  is  the 
need  of  our  being  more  charitable,  and 
I  assume  that  need  exists  among  us.  I 
know  that  it  exists  with  me.  I  do  not 
have  in  mind  at  this  moment  the  relief 
of  the  suffering  through  the  giving  of 
our  substance;  that  is  a  necessary  and 
proper  principle,  of  course,  but  rather 
I  have  in  mind  the  kind  of  charity  that 
is  demonstrated  in  being  lenient  and 
tolerant  in  judging  others  and  in  judg- 
ing their  action;  the  kind  of  charity  that 
forgives  those  who  accuse  us  wrongfully, 
who  misinterpret  our  intentions;  the 
kind  of  charity  that  is  patient  in  the 
presence  of  those  who  are  quick  to 
judge  us. 

I  have  in  mind  the  charity  that  im- 
pels us  to  be  sympathetic,  compassion- 
ate, and  merciful,  not  only  in  times  of 
sickness  and  affliction  and  distress,  but 
also  in  times  of  weakness  or  error  on 
the  part  of  others. 

We  are  taught  that  he  that  is  merci- 
ful shall  be  rewarded  in  kind.  The 
Lord  has  said,  "Blessed  are  the  merci- 
ful: for  they  shall  obtain  mercy."  (Matt. 
5:7.)  I  speak  of  the  kind  of  charity 
that  not  only  forgives  but  also  that 
forgets  the  acts  of  those  who  trespass 
against  us,  who  offend  us,  who  hurt 
us.  There  is  need  of  that  brand  of 
charity,  if  I  may  call  it  such,  which 
causes  one  to  refuse  to  speak  of  or  to 
repeat  unkind  remarks  which  are  said 
about  another — even  though  they  may 
be  true!  The  more  perfect  one  becomes, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

the  less  he  is  inclined  to  speak  of  the 
imperfections  of  others. 

There  is  need  of  that  kind  of  charity 
that  gives  hope  to  those  who  are  un- 
noticed, those  who  are  discouraged,  and 
the  afflicted.  There  is  need  of  charity 
that  can  instil  into  the  hearts  of  those 
who  have  made  mistakes  the  desire  to 
repent  and  to  seek  forgiveness  of  those 
against  whom  they  may  have  done 
wrong.  After  all,  true  charity  is  love 
in  action.  And  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
need  of  charity,  like  the  need  of  God, 
is  everywhere. 

There  is  need  of  that  type  of  charity 
which  refuses  to  find  satisfaction  either 
in  hearing  or  in  repeating  or  broad- 
casting the  reports  of  misfortunes  that 
befall  others,  unless  in  so  doing  the 
unfortunate  one  may  be  benefited. 

Horace  Mann  once  said:  "To  pity 
distress  is  but  human;  to  relieve  it  is 
Godlike." 

There  is  need  for  the  kind  of  charity 
that  causes  one  to  refuse  to  be  a  tale- 
bearer among  the  people,  for,  as  the 
Apostle  James  taught, 

If  any  man  among  you  seem  to  be  re- 
ligious, and  bridleth  not  his  tongue,  but 
deceiveth  his  own  heart,  this  man's  religion 
is  vain.  (James  1:26.) 

Never,  in  my  opinion,  has  there  been 
recorded  a  more  eloquent  and  appealing 
discourse  or  communication  on  the  sub- 
ject of  charity  than  that  found  in  the 
first  epistle  of  Paul  to  the  Corinthian 
Saints,  with  which  you  are  all  well 
acquainted,  but  which  I  hope  you  will 
permit  me  to  bring  to  you  again: 

Though  I  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men 
and  of  angels,  and  have  not  charity,  I  am 
become  as  sounding  brass,  or  a  tinkling 
cymbal. 

And  though  I  have  the  gift  of  prophecy, 
and  understand  all  mysteries,  and  knowl- 
edge; and  though  I  have  all  faith,  so  that 
I  could  remove  mountains,  and  have  not 
charity,  I  am  nothing. 

And  though  I  bestow  all  my  goods  to 
feed  the  poor,  and  though  I  give  my  body 
to  be  burned,  and  have  not  charity,  it 
profiteth  me  nothing. 

Charity  suffereth  long,  and  is  kind;  char- 
ity envieth  not;  charity  vaunteth  not  itself, 
is  not  puffed  up, 

Doth  not  behave  itself  unseemly,  seeketh 
not  her  own,  is  not  easily  provoked,  thinketh 
no  evil; 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


115 


Rejoiceth  not  in  iniquity,  but  rejoiceth 
in  the  truth; 

Beareth  all  things,  believeth  all  things, 
hopeth  all  things,  endureth  all  things. 

Charity  never  faileth:  .  .  . 

And  now  abideth  faith,  hope,  charity, 
these  three;  but  the  greatest  of  these  is 
charity.  (I  Cor.  13:1-8,  13.) 

At  the  conclusion  of  one  of  the  last 
sessions  of  a  general  conference,  back 
in  1902,  I  believe  it  was,  President 
Joseph  P.  Smith  appealed  to  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  these  words: 

"We  hope  and  pray  that  you  will  go 
from  this  conference  to  your  homes 
feeling  in  your  hearts  and  from  the 
depths  of  your  souls  to  forgive  one  an- 
other and  never  from  this  time  forth 
bear  malice  toward  another  fellow 
creature!  I  do  not  care  whether  he  is 
a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  or  not,  whether  he 
is  a  friend  or  foe,  whether  he  is  good 
or  bad.  It  is  extremely  hurtful  for  any 
man  holding  the  priesthood,  enjoying 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  harbor  the 
spirit  of  envy  or  malice,  or  retaliation, 
or  intolerance  toward  or  against  his  fel- 
low man.  We  ought  to  say  in  our 
hearts:  'Let  God  be  judge  between  me 
and  thee,  but  as  for  me,  I  will  forgive!' 
I  will  say  unto  you,  that  Latter-day 
Saints  who  harbor  feelings  of  unfor- 
giveness  in  their  souls  are  more  cen- 
sorable  than  the  one  who  has  sinned 
against  them.  Go  home  and  dismiss 
envy,  and  hatred  from  your  hearts;  dis- 
miss the  feeling  of  unforgiveness;  and 
cultivate  in  your  souls  the  spirit  of 
Christ  which  crieth  out  on  the  cross: 
'Father,  forgive  them,  for  they  know 
not  what  they  do.'" 

".  .  .  except  ye  have  charity,"  Moroni 
said  in  his  farewell  message  to  the 
Lamanites,  "ye  can  in  nowise  be  saved 


in  the  kingdom  of  God;  neither  can  ye 
be  saved  in  the  kingdom  of  God  if  ye 
have  not  faith;  neither  can  ye  if  ye  have 
no  hope."  (Moroni  10:21.) 

His  father,  Mormon,  spoke  of  charity 
in  these  words:  "But  charity  is  the  pure 
love  of  Christ,  and  it  endureth  forever; 
and  whosoever  is  found  possessed  of  it 
at  the  last  day,  it  shall  be  well  with 
him. 

"Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren, 
pray  unto  the  Father  with  all  the  energy 
of  heart,  that  ye  may  be  filled  with  this 
love,  which  he  hath  bestowed  upon  all 
who  are  true  followers  of  his  Son,  Jesus 
Christ;  that  ye  may  become  the  sons 
of  God;  that  when  he  shall  appear  we 
shall  be  like  him,  for  we  shall  see  him 
as  he  is;  .  .  ."  (Moroni  7:47-48.) 

And  in  the  words  of  Mormon,  I  pray, 
as  he  prayed,  "that  we  may  have  this 
hope;  that  we  may  be  purified  even  as 
he  is  pure,"  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
the  Lord.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us. 

The  Congregation  will  now  join  with 
the  Choir  in  singing,  "Praise  to  the 
Man  Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 
Elder  Spencer  Cornwall  will  lead  the 
singing. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  Man 
Who  Communed  With  Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Spencer 
W.  Kimball. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Someone  suggested  in  his  opening 
prayer  that  this  had  been  the  most 
outstanding  conference  he  had  ever 
attended.  I  think  we  all  feel  that  way 
as  we  come  to  the  end  of  this  very 
impressive  service  that  has  now  been 
held  for  these  three  days.  What  I  say 
this  afternoon,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 


I  hope  will  not  in  any  way  detract  from 
the  sweetness  of  spirit  that  we  all  feel. 

I  desire  to  make  a  few  comments,  and 
they  could  be  enlarged  upon  if  time 
would  permit,  prompted  by  the  inspired 
address  of  President  McKay  in  the  open- 
ing session  of  this  conference  in  which 
he  gave  us  a  great  ideal,  an  ideal  of 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  8 

what  a  home  and  our  lives  ought  to  be. 
I  do  not  know  how  you  felt  about  it, 
but  after  President  McKay  had  finished, 
I  felt  in  my  heart  that  I  would  from 
now  on  like  to  be  just  a  little  kinder  and 
a  little  more  considerate,  less  impatient, 
less  impulsive.  I  would  like  to  be  able 
to  offer  counsel,  and  I  would  like  to  be 
worthy  to  offer  that  counsel  to  our  boys 
and  girls,  our  youth. 

I  would  like  them  to  feel  as  we  felt 
that  in  a  home  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  may 
be  found  the  finest  concepts  of  life,  a 
pattern  of  life,  that  when  our  young 
people  take  upon  themselves  the  respon- 
sibilities of  a  home,  they  may  lay  such 
a  foundation  that  will  ultimately  give 
them  the  same  type  of  home  as  Presi- 
dent McKay  so  impressively  portrayed 
to  us. 

As  our  leader  spoke,  he  spoke  authori- 
tatively. We  had  that  demonstrated 
Saturday  in  the  impressive  address  of 
Brother  Thomas  E.  McKay,  my  col- 
league. I  have  been  in  his  home;  I 
know  the  sweetness  of  spirit  there.  And 
he  reflected  yesterday  in  his  address 
those  high  ideals  and  great  virtues  as 
he  told  of  the  home  life  from  which  he 
came.  We  knew  again  of  the  power  of 
example  that  we  have  had  demon- 
strated to  us  by  these  two  of  our  be- 
loved brethren. 

I  have  a  little  concern  for  our  young 
people.  Last  night  I  read  some  figures 
in  the  Deseret  News.  I  want  to  call 
attention  to  these  figures  and  some  of 
the  comments  of  the  writer  of  the  edi- 
torial. I  quote  from  the  editorial  en- 
titled "Lengthening  Debt's  Shadow": 

"Economists  and  economizers — home, 
business  and  government — have  reason 
to  raise  an  eyebrow  over  the  fact  that 
the  nation  has  posted  a  record  increase 
of  $660  million  debt  for  installment 
buying  of  goods  other  than  autos  since 
a  year  ago. 

"For  these  types  of  goods,  Americans 
are  now  in  debt  $614  billions. 

"This  is  not  all  they  owe,  either. 
Americans  have  also  increased  their  pay- 
by-the  month  personal  loans  to  5l/2  bil- 
lions. This  is  a  gain  of  $733  millions, 
or  15%  in  the  space  of  12  months.  .  .  ." 

This  does  not  include  the  purchasing 
of  homes.  This  just  refers  to  consumer 
debts. 

The  danger  there,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  as  I  see  it,  lies  in  our  young  peo- 


Third  Day 

pie  undertaking  obligations  they  can- 
not meet.  It  has  always  seemed  to  me 
that  a  young  man  was  justified  in  going 
in  debt  for  a  home,  provided  that  obli- 
gation did  not  exceed  his  ability  to  pay. 
A  young  man  should  not  feel  that  when 
just  starting  out  in  life  he  should  have  as 
good  a  home  as  his  father.  His  father 
probably  has  struggled  for  many  years  to 
get  his  home.  But  a  young  man  and 
woman  starting  out  should  take  into 
consideration  the  fact  that  his  parents 
had  little  to  start  with  and  that  they  are 
starting  from  the  beginning,  and  theirs 
should  be  a  humble  home.  The  tend- 
ency today,  however,  is  to  build  and 
buy  extravagantly,  frequently  beyond 
the  ability  to  pay. 

And  that  is  not  the  only  difficulty.  In 
addition  to  the  obligations  incident  to  a 
home  are  the  obligations  incident  to  this 
consumer  buying.  We  think  we  must 
have  all  of  the  gadgets,  all  of  the  con- 
veniences that  are  advertised.  They  are 
desirable  to  have.  They  are  convenient. 
No  one  would  refuse  a  mother  an  electric 
washer,  an  electric  dryer,  a  freezer,  if  we 
could  afford  them.  No  one  would  refuse 
his  children  television  or  a  radio  or  a 
good  car,  if  he  could  afford  them.  But 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  are  going  to 
maintain  the  high  standard,  the  spiritual 
standard  of  our  homes,  we  must  safe- 
guard ourselves  and  our  children  against 
obligations  that  will  bring  sorrow  and 
friction  into  the  home  and  that  will 
upset  the  high  standards  that  we  want 
to  preserve  for  them. 

This  is  the  reason  that  I  mention 
these  things,  and  much  more  could  be 
said  about  them.  I  have  seen  so  many 
cases  of  sorrow  and  suffering  incident 
to  too  much  debt.  It  has  been  my  ex- 
perience now  for  over  forty  years  to  be 
connected  with  financing.  I  have  seen 
young  couples  start  out  happily  in  life 
and  finally  bring  to  themselves  distress, 
not  only  financially,  but  also  spiritually 
and  emotionally,  all  because  their  debts 
had  reached  a  point  where  they  could 
not  pay  them.  They  became  upset,  and 
friction  and  quarreling  ensued,  which 
brought  about  a  condition  in  the  home 
that  is  in  contravention  to  the  spirit  and 
the  ideals  taught  us  in  this  conference. 

I  hope  you  will  not  consider  it  pre- 
sumptuous on  my  part  if  I  offer  a  word 
of  caution  to  our  young  people  against 
these  practices.    We  should  teach  our 


ELDER  CLIFFl 

boys  and  girls  to  have  honor  above 
everything  else,  honor  in  paying  their 
debts. 

Someone  in  this  conference  spoke  of 
bonds,  not  government  bonds,  but  a 
bond  of  integrity  and  honor.  We  need 
to  teach  that  to  our  children  and  to  our- 
selves. Somewhere  I  read  of  an  old 
Chinese  practice.  If  a  young  man 
wanted  to  borrow  money  (I  do  not  know 
how  it  is  now)  but  in  the  days  of  the 
older  civilization,  if  a  Chinese  boy 
wished  to  borrow  money,  he  would  go 
to  the  banker  and  tell  him,  "I  am  a 
son  of  Lu  Sing.  I  would  like  to  borrow 
a  thousand  dollars."  And  the  banker, 
knowing  the  integrity  of  Lu  Sing,  would 
lend  the  boy  the  thousand  dollars 
without  a  scratch  of  a  pen.  There  was 
nothing  but  a  verbal  contract  because 
the  banker  knew  of  the  integrity  of  the 
family,  the  honor  of  the  family,  and 
he  knew  that  the  family  would  not  let 
him  down,  even  if  the  boy  should  fail, 
and  rarely  did  the  boy  fail.  It  is  a 
striking  example  of  the  value  of  one's 
word,  and  we  can  well  adopt  it  in  our 
lives — not  necessarily  the  practice  of  it, 
but  the  intrinsic  value  of  honor  and 
integrity  that  our  word  is  as  good  as 
our  bond. 

Young  people,  do  not  go  into  debt 
beyond  your  ability  to  pay.  Let  us  as 
parents  help  them  to  avoid  these  pit- 
falls. 

Now,  one  other  thought.  As  President 
McKay  spoke  of  the  ideal  home  and  the 
love  of  home,  I  thought  of  an  ideal  home 
back  in  1820,  of  a  boy  who  came  into 
that  home  one  spring  morning  to  tell 
his  father  and  mother  of  a  great  revela- 
tion, and  the  father  and  mother  believed 
the  boy.  His  brother  Hyrum  believed 
him,  and  his  brother  Alvin.  Hyrum  was 
twenty,  six  years  older  than  the  Prophet, 
and  Alvin  was  eight  years  older,  he  be- 
ing over  twenty-two. 

It  is  significant,  my  brethren  and 
sisters — a  fourteen-year-old  boy  telling 
his  father  and  mother  of  the  greatest 
revelation  of  all  time  since  the  birth  of 
the  Savior  and  having  his  parents  and 
brothers  and  sisters  believe  him.  From 
that  time  on  there  was  loyalty  and  de- 
votion in  that  home.  The  boy  was  to 
instruct  his  father,  not  in  unkindness 
but  in  love,  because  his  father  believed 
in  him,  his  mother  believed  in  him.  If 
there  had  been  any  element  of  fraud,  if 


RD  E.  YOUNG  117 

the  boy  had  been  inclined  to  tell  an 
untruth,  the  parents  would  have  known 
it;  his  brothers  would  have  detected  it, 
and  the  mother,  above  all  others,  would 
have  known  it.  She  would  not  have 
talked  about  it,  but  she  would  have 
known  it,  keeping  the  boy's  weakness 
wrapped  up  in  her  own  soul.  Mothers 
generally  protect  their  children  regard- 
less of  their  weaknesses. 

I  repeat,  they  believed  in  their  boy, 
and  to  me  that  has  always  been  an 
example  of  a  perfect  home,  an  ideal 
home.  Confidence,  faith,  love  and  de- 
votion were  to  be  exemplified  throughout 
the  life  of  the  boy.  Hyrum  was  to  give 
his  life  as  a  witness  of  his  confidence 
in  his  younger  brother  and  the  divinity 
of  his  calling.  His  father,  too,  was  to 
suffer  persecution  that  was  to  cause  an 
early  death. 

You  will  recall  the  night  the  Angel 
Moroni  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
revealed  to  him  the  sacred  record  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  to  be 
translated.  In  the  morning,  Joseph, 
somewhat  weary,  having  been  awake 
most  of  the  night,  went  to  the  field  to 
assist  his  father.  "You  look  weary,  my 
boy,  go  back  to  the  house  and  rest."  As 
he  reached  the  edge  of  the  field,  the 
Angel  again  appeared  to  Joseph  and  in- 
structed him  to  tell  his  father.  He  re- 
turned to  his  father  in  the  field  and 
rehearsed  the  whole  matter  to  him.  His 
father  replied  to  him,  "It  was  of  God. 
Do  as  commanded  by  the  messenger." 

And  there  was  no  failure,  and  I  sub- 
mit to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
here  we  have  an  example  of  a  perfect 
trust  between  father  and  son,  an  exam- 
ple of  what  should  be  in  an  ideal  home. 
That  home  was  a  humble  one,  probably 
with  candlelights,  certainly  no  modern 
conveniences,  but  a  home  in  which 
abounded  love,  trust,  confidence,  and 
faith,  and  from  that  faith  and  that 
home  was  to  come  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  in  the  name  of 
Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


118 

Sunday,  April  8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends:  This  has  been  a  most  in- 
spirational experience  in  three  days 
of  general  conference. 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young  has  been 
speaking  of  the  boy  who  communed 
with  Jehovah.  We  all  sang  that  song 
a  few  moments  ago,  "Praise  to  the  Man 
Who  Communed  with  Jehovah."  I 
should  now  like  to  pay  my  devotion  to 
that  Jehovah  with  whom  he  communed, 
my  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  love  him  with 
all  my  heart.  We  are  coming  to  the 
close  of  this  great  gathering.  For  seven 
sessions  every  prayer  has  been  made  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Every  one  of 
the  many  eloquent  sermons  has  closed 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  think 
they  have  all  begun  with  it  also,  some- 
times unexpressed. 

Mention  has  already  been  made  of 
the  meeting  that  was  held  in  the  temple 
on  Thursday,  prior  to  the  beginning  of 
this  conference — a  preparation  meeting 
for  all  of  the  members  of  the  General 
Authorities.  It  was  a  meeting  of  fast- 
ing and  the  Sacrament,  of  prayer  and 
testimony.  There  were  appeals  unto 
our  Heavenly  Father  that  this  great 
conference  might  touch  the  hearts  of 
the  many  people  who  would  listen,  and 
as  one  of  the  concluding  speakers  I 
should  like  to  bear  witness  that  the 
Lord  has  answered  those  prayers,  for  it 
has  been  an  inspirational  conference, 
and  our  Brethren  have  spoken  with 
great  strength  and  power,  and  each  one 
has  inspired  me. 

In  my  files  I  find  a  description  of  the 
Savior  written  by  one  who  gave  his 
own  artistic  concept.  I  give  it  to  you 
without  author  as  it  came  to  me: 

There  lives  at  this  time  in  Judea  a  man 
of  singular  virtue  whose  name  is  Jesus, 
whom  the  barbarians  esteem  as  a  prophet; 
but  his  followers  love  and  adore  him  as  the 
offspring  of  God.  He  calls  back  the  dead 
from  the  graves  and  heals  all  sorts  of 
diseases  with  a  word  or  a  touch.  He  is  a 
tall  man,  well  shaped,  an  amiable  and 
reverent  aspect,  his  hair  of  a  color  that 
can  hardly  be  matched,  falling  into  grace- 
ful curls,  waving  about  and  very  agreeably 
couching  upon  his  shoulders,  parted  on  the 


crown  of  his  head,  running  as  a  stream  to 
the  front  after  the  fashion  of  the  Nazarites. 
His  forehead  is  high,  large,  imposing;  his 
cheeks  without  spot  or  wrinkle,  beautiful 
with  a  lovely  red,  his  nose  and  mouth 
formed  with  exquisite  symmetry;  his  beard, 
and  of  a  color  suitable  to  his  hair,  reaching 
below  his  chin  and  parted  in  the  middle 
like  a  fork;  his  eyes,  bright  blue,  clear  and 
serene  look  innocent,  dignified,  manly  and 
mature;  in  proportion  of  body  most  perfect 
and  captivating,  his  arms  and  hands  delect- 
able to  behold.  He  rebukes  with  majesty, 
counsels  with  mildness,  and  his  whole  ad- 
dress, whether  in  word  or  deed,  being  elo- 
quent and  grave.  No  man  has  seen  him 
laugh,  yet  his  manners  are  exceedingly 
pleasant,  but  he  has  wept  frequently  in  the 
presence  of  men.  He  is  temperate,  modest, 
wise — a  man  for  his  extraordinary  beauty 
and  divine  perfection,  surpassing  the  chil- 
dren of  men  in  every  sense. 

Also  in  the  temple  meeting  above 
mentioned,  President  McKay  read  to  us 
a  paragraph  describing  the  Master,  and 
if  I  may  have  his  permission  I  should 
like  to  repeat  it  to  you: 

Description  of  Christ 

The  following  epistle  is  said  to  have 
been  taken  by  Napoleon  from  the  records 
of  Rome  when  he  deprived  that  city  of  so 
many  valuable  manuscripts.  It  was  writ- 
ten at  the  time  and  on  the  spot  where  Jesus 
commenced  his  ministry,  by  Publius  Lentu- 
lus,  Governor  of  Judea,  to  the  senate  of 
Rome,  Caesar,  emperor.  It  was  the  custom 
in  those  days  for  the  governor  to  write 
home  any  event  that  transpired  while  he 
held  his  office. 

Conscript  Fathers:  In  these  our  days  ap- 
peared a  man  named  Jesus  Christ,  who  is 
yet  living  among  us,  and  of  the  Gentiles 
is  accepted  as  a  prophet  of  great  truth;  but 
his  own  disciples  call  him  the  son  of  God. 
He  hath  raised  the  dead  and  cured  all 
manner  of  diseases.  He  is  a  man  of  stature 
somewhat  tall  and  comely,  with  a  ruddy 
countenance,  such  as  the  beholder  may  both 
love  and  fear.  His  hair  is  the  color  of 
filbert  when  fully  ripe,  plain  to  his  ear, 
whence  downward  it  is  more  of  orient  color, 
curling  and  waving  on  his  shoulders;  in 
the  middle  of  his  head  is  a  seam  of  long 
hair,  after  the  manner  of  the  Nazarites. 
His  forehead  is  plain  and  delicate;  the  face 
without  spot  or  wrinkle,  beautiful  with  a 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


119 


comely  red,  his  nose  and  mouth  are  exactly 
formed;  his  beard  is  the  color  of  his  hair 
and  thick,  not  of  any  length  but  forked. 

In  reproving  he  is  terrible;  admonishing, 
courteous;  in  speaking,  very  modest  and 
wise;  in  proportion  of  body,  well-shaped. 
None  have  seen  him  laugh,  many  have  seen 
him  weep.  A  man  for  his  surpassing  beauty 
excelling  the  children  of  men. 

Whether  authentic  or  not  I  do  not 
know,  but  it  may  stir  our  imaginations. 

I  have  a  little  paragraph  from  another 
writer,  Charles  Edward  Jefferson,  who 
says, 

But  when  we  come  to  Jesus,  we  find  our- 
selves in  the  presence  of  a  man  without  a 
flaw.  He  was  enthusiastic,  blazing  with 
enthusiasm,  but  he  never  became  fanatical. 
He  was  emotional.  Men  could  feel  the 
throbbing  of  his  heart,  but  he  never  be- 
came hysterical.  He  was  imaginative,  full 
of  poetry  and  music,  seeing  pictures  every- 
where, throwing  upon  everything  he  touched 
a  light  that  never  was  on  land  or  sea,  the 
inspiration  of  a  poet's  dream.  But  he  never 
was  flighty.  He  was  practical,  hard-headed, 
matter-of-fact,  but  he  was  never  prosaic, 
never  dull.  His  life  always  had  in  it  the 
glamour  of  romance.  He  was  courageous, 
but  never  reckless;  prudent,  but  never  a 
coward;  unique,  but  not  eccentric;  sympa- 
thetic, but  never  sentimental.  Great  streams 
of  sympathy  flowed  from  his  tender  heart 
toward  those  who  needed  sympathy;  but 
at  the  same  time  streams  of  lava  glowed 
from  the  same  heart  to  scorch  and  over- 
whelm the  workers  of  iniquity.  He  was 
pious,  but  there  was  not  a  trace  about 
him  of  sanctimoniousness. 

That  is  the  picture  that  men  have  of 
him.  In  my  own  office  at  home  and 
at  the  Church  Office  Building  I  have 
rather  large  pictures  of  Jesus  as  he  has 
been  portrayed  by  artists.  I  appreciate 
them,  but  they  do  not  give  me  the  com- 
plete or  acceptable  picture  of  the  Lord, 
and  no  picture  I  have  ever  seen  is  ade- 
quate. I  can  never  see  the  Christ  with 
my  eyes  open.  I  must  close  them  to 
get  my  concepts  of  him. 

The  Christ  of  whom  they  spoke  and 
whom  they  tried  to  picture  was  the 
Master  as  he  lived  on  the  earth  among 
mortals.  I  should  like  now  to  give  you 
another  picture  of  the  Christ  as  it  is 
given  by  one  who  saw  him  after  he 
was  immortal,  after  his  resurrection.  I 
quote:     ,  '< 


I  John,  who  also  am  your  brother,  and 
companion  in  tribulation  .  .  .  was  in  the 
isle  that  is  called  Patmos,  for  the  word  of 
God,  and  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  was  in  the  Spirit  on  the  Lord's  day,  and 
heard  behind  me  a  great  voice,  as  of  a 
trumpet, 

Saying,  I  am  Alpha  and  Omega,  the  first 
and  the  last:  and,  What  thou  seest,  write 
in  a  book,  .  .  . 

And  I  turned  to  see  the  voice  that  spake 
with  me.    And  being  turned,  I  saw.  .  .  . 

One  like  unto  the  Son  of  man,  clothed 
with  a  garment  down  to  the  foot,  and  girt 
about  the  paps  with  a  golden  girdle. 

His  head  and  his  hairs  were  white  like 
wool,  as  white  as  snow;  and  his  eyes  were 
as  a  flame  of  fire; 

And  his  feet  like  unto  fine  brass,  as  if 
they  burned  in  a  furnace;  and  his  voice 
as  the  sound  of  many  waters. 

.  .  .  and  his  countenance  was  as  the  sun 
shineth  in  his  strength. 

And  when  I  saw  him,  I  fell  at  his  feet 
as  dead.  And  he  laid  his  right  hand  upon 
me,  saying  unto  me,  Fear  not;  I  am  the 
first  and  the  last: 

I  am  he  that  liveth,  and  was  dead;  and, 
behold,  I  am  alive  for  evermore,  Amen;  .  .  . 

Write  the  things  which  thou  hast  seen, .  .  . 
(Rev.  1:9-19.) 

I  think  of  the  Lord  as  he  walked 
through  Galilee  and  Palestine.  I  realize 
that  he  must  have  become  tired  and 
hungry  and  weary  and  thirsty,  but  he 
was  ever  patient.  He  was  loving;  he 
was  kind.  It  seems  that  though  it  was 
necessary  at  times  to  rebuke  people,  he 
did  what  he  told  us  in  the  modern 
revelations  to  do,  he  reproved  then 
showed  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of 
love  toward  him  he  had  reproved  (see 
D  &  C  121:43)  —he  had  his  arm  around 
them,  too.  O  how  I  love  him  for  his 
tenderness — so  forgiving,  so  kind. 

I  think  of  him  on  the  cross  during 
his  great  agony.  He  was  thinking  of 
his  sweet  mother  down  beneath  him. 
He  was  tender  and  kind  as  he  said  to 
John,  "Behold  thy  mother,"  and  to  his 
mother,  "Woman,  behold  thy  son!" 
(See  John  19:26-27.)  And  from  that 
hour  that  disciple  took  her  into  his 
own  home. 

I  think  of  his  kindness  when  proud 
and  loving  mothers  so  wanted  their 
children  to  have  a  sight  of  the  Master, 
to  touch  the  hem  of  his  garment,  and 
they  were  pushed  away — (I  think  of 
that  incident  at  the  conclusion  of  nearly 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  8 

every  session  of  conference  as  we  go 
out  the  back  door  and  people  crowd 
around  to  just  see  and  speak  to  Christ's 
modern  prophet — )  and  he  said,  "Suffer 
the  little  children  to  come  unto  me,  and 
forbid  them  not:  for  of  such  is  the  king- 
dom of  God."  (Mark  10:14.) 

I  think  of  the  Christ  who  came  in 
our  own  day  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  his  associate  in  the  Kirtland 
Temple. 

The  veil  was  taken  from  our  minds,  and 
the  eyes  of  our  understanding  were  opened. 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the 
breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before  us;  and 
under  his  feet  was  paved  work  of  pure 
gold,  in  color  like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the  hair 
of  his  head  was  white  like  the  pure  snow; 
his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness 
of  the  sun;  and  his  voice  was  as  the  sound 
of  the  rushing  waters,  even  the  voice  of 
Jehovah,  saying: 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last;  I  am  he  who 
liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain;  I  am  your 
advocate  with  the  Father.  (D  &  C  110:1-4.) 

Several  have  said  no  one  ever  saw 
Him  laugh;  however,  I  can  imagine  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  smiling  as  he  looked 
upon  his  people  in  their  devotion.  This 
great  conference — with  its  thirty-one 
thousand  men  and  boys  holding  the 
Holy  Priesthood,  in  attendance  at  one 
meeting;  with  its  tens  of  thousands  who 
have  come  long  distances  to  listen  and 
to  worship  together,  and  to  hear  the 
word  of  that  Lord  Jesus  Christ — must 
have  pleased  him  greatly. 

I  think  he  smiles  when  he  looks  upon 
this  his  prophet,  President  David  O. 
McKay,  who  gives  such  inspired  leader- 
ship to  his  people,  who  is  so  close  to 
him,  who  hears  his  word,  and  who  re- 
receives  his  revelations.  I  think  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  is  smiling  when  he  looKS 
into  the  homes  of  this  people  and  sees 
them  on  their  knees  in  family  prayer 
night  and  morning,  the  children  par- 
ticipating also.  I  think  he  smiles  when 
he  sees  young  husbands  and  wives,  and 
older  ones,  with  deep  affection  for  each 
other,  who  continue  their  courtship  as 
our  prophet  has  said,  who  continue  to 
love  each  other  with  all  their  souls 
until  the  day  they  die  and  then  accentu- 
ate it  through  eternity. 

I  think  he  is  pleased  with  the  families 
which  sacrifice  and  share,  like  the  fam- 


Third  Day 

ily  I  visited  a  week  ago  and  with  whom 
I  had  lunch.  There  were  ten  wonderful 
children  in  one  family — all  happy  to- 
gether, and  working  all  their  problems 
out  together,  sharing  all  their  limited 
assets  together!  I  think  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  is  smiling  when  he  looks  down 
and  sees  more  than  four  thousand  men 
this  past  year — four  thousand  men  with 
some  of  their  wives  and  some  of  their 
children  who  were  inactive  a  year  ago, 
but  today  are  happy  in  the  kingdom, 
many  of  whom  have  been  to  the  holy 
temple  of  God  and  had  their  endow- 
ments and  their  sealings,  and  who  with 
tears  of  gratitude  thank  the  Lord  for 
his  program. 

I  think  I  see  tears  of  joy  in  his  eyes 
and  a  smile  on  his  lips  as  he  sees  the 
twenty-one  thousand  new  souls  who 
have  come  unto  him  this  year,  who 
have  professed  his  name,  who  have 
gone  into  the  waters  of  baptism,  and 
I  think  he  loves  those  who  helped  to 
convert  them  also. 

I  see  him  smile  as  he  sees  his  numer- 
ous people  on  their  knees  in  repentance, 
changing  their  lives,  making  them 
brighter  and  cleaner,  and  more  like 
their  Heavenly  Father  and  their  Brother, 
Jesus  Christ. 

I  think  he  is  pleased  and  smiles  as  he 
sees  youth  as  they  organize  their  lives 
and  protect  and  fortify  themselves 
against  the  errors  of  the  day.  I  think 
he  is  first  grieved,  and  then  perhaps 
pleased,  when  he  sees,  as  he  must  have 
done  a  few  days  ago  in  my  office,  a 
young  couple  who  had  made  serious 
error  and  were  now  on  their  knees  to- 
gether with  their  hands  tightly  clasped 
together.  There  must  have  been  joy 
in  his  smile  when  he  saw  into  their 
souls  and  saw  that  they  were  making 
the  adjustment,  as  their  tears  bathed 
my  hand  which  I  had  tenderly  placed 
on  theirs. 

Oh,  I  love  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I 
hope  that  I  can  show  to  him  and  mani- 
fest my  sincerity  and  devotion.  I  want 
to  live  close  to  him.  I  want  to  be  like 
him,  and  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help 
all  of  us  that  we  may  so  be  as  he  said 
to  his  Nephite  disciples,  'Therefore, 
what  manner  of  men  ought  ye  to  be?" 
and  he  answered  his  own  question  by 
saying,  "Even  as  I  am,"  (3  Nephi  27:27) 
and  so,  as  Elder  EIRay  L.  Christiansen 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


121 


said,  I  go  from  this  conference  deter- 
mined to  live  even  closer  to  my  Heav- 
enly Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ 
than  I  have  ever  lived  before.    And  I 


pray  this  in  his  name — in  the  name  of 
him  whom  I  love,  adore,  and  worship, 
in  the  name  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  and 
Redeemer,  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


The  first  speaker  of  this  session,  Elder 
Lee,  referred  to  the  "shortest  desig- 
nated highway  in  the  State,"  and  that 
shortest  highway  leads  to  the  peniten- 
tiary. His  excellent  discourse  and  the 
inspirational  discourses  of  the  other 
brethren  who  have  followed  him  have 
inspired  us  all.  The  spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  here,  and  what  I  am  going  to  say  in 
a  few  words  I  hope  will  be  in  harmony 
with  the  spirit  of  those  addresses. 

That  reference  to  the  highway  re- 
minded me  of  something  to  which  we 
should  have  called  the  attention  of 
31,000  men  of  the  priesthood  last 
evening.  But  now  I  am  glad  that  I 
overlooked  it,  for  here  is  a  better  time 
and  place,  I  think,  to  mention  it.  It 
refers  to  a  number  of  young  people  who 
get  on  that  shortest  of  highways.  For 
several  years  we  have  asked  the  bishops 
to  help  us  to  protect  them  from  getting 
on  that  highway.  For  a  while  we  re- 
ceived help,  and  then  that  help  prac- 
tically ceased.  There  are  two  members 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  appointed 
to  receive  your  suggestions  and  recom- 
mendations, but  these  two  members  are 
helpless  without  your  suggestions. 

In  brief,  many  of  our  young  girls,  par- 
ticularly, and  not  a  few  of  our  young 
boys,  leave  their  homes,  with  the  con- 
sent of  parents,  sometimes  without  the 
consent,  and  they  come  to  larger  cen- 
ters in  hopes  of  bettering  their  financial 
conditions,  probably  social  conditions; 
and  without  proper  guidance,  without 
help,  not  a  few  get  on  that  one-way 
road.  And  so  we  have  asked  that  when- 
ever one  of  those  girls  or  one  of  the 
boys  leaves  home  to  come  to  the  city, 
the  bishop  will  send  word  to  Elder 
Spencer  W.  Kimball  or  Elder  Mark  E. 
Petersen  giving  the  home  town  address, 
and,  if  possible,  the  address  of  the  boy 
or  girl  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Ogden,  or 
some  other  center. 

The  ward  teachers  should  know  the 
name  of  that  boy  and  the  name  of  that 
girl,  for  it  is  his  duty  "to  watch  over 


the  church  always,  to  be  with  and 
strengthen  them."  (D  &  C  20:53.)  If 
the  teacher  will  notify  the  bishop  that 
one  of  the  members  of  his  district  is 
leaving  home,  and  the  bishop  will  in- 
form the  committee  of  the  Twelve  of 
the  fact,  safeguards  can  be  put  around 
the  young  person.  They  are  not  bad 
boys  or  bad  girls,  intrinsically,  but  there 
are  traps  into  which  they  may  fall  here 
and  be  caught  in  sin,  as  we  have  heard. 
Bishops,  will  you  please  do  that?  Ward 
teachers  throughout  the  Church,  will 
you  please  watch  over  the  Church  al- 
ways— over  those  who  are  sick,  those 
who  need  your  help,  and  particularly 
some  of  these  discouraged  young  peo- 
ple? 

I  think  the  thought  that  I  am  trying 
to  get  over  is  well  expressed  by  that 
poem  which  the  Presiding  Bishopric  has 
put  into  the  hands  of  the  lesser  priest- 
hood of  the  Church.    It  is  as  follows: 

"He  stood  at  the  crossroads  all  alone 
The  sunlight  in  his  face; 
He  had  no  thought  for  the  world  un- 
known, 

He  was  set  for  a  manly  race. 

But  the  roads  stretched  east  and  the 

roads  stretched  west, 
And  the  lad  knew  not  which  road  was 

best. 

So  he  chose  the  road  that  led  him  down, 
And  he  lost  the  race  and  the  victor's 
crown. 

He  was  caught  at  last  in  an  angry  snare, 
Because  no  one  stood  at  the  crossroads 
there 

To  show  him  the  better  road. 

"Another  day  at  the  selfsame  place, 
A  boy  with  high  hopes  stood, 
He  too  was  set  for  a  manly  race, 
He  too  was  seeking  the  things  that  were 
good, 

But  one  was  there  who  the  roads  did 
know 

And  that  one  showed  him  which  way 
to  go. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  8 

So  he  turned  from  the  road  that  would 

lead  him  down, 
And  he  won  the  race  and  the  victor's 
crown. 

He  walks  today  the  highway  fair 
Because  one  stood  at  the  crossroads 
there 

To  show  him  the  better  way." 

We  are  just  reminding  you  bishops  of 
this  safeguard.  How  effective  the  pro- 
tection or  guidance,  though,  depends 
upon  you,  and  more  upon  the  ward 
teacher. 

As  this  conference  draws  to  a  close, 
my  heart  is  full  of  appreciation.  This 
has  been  a  great  conference.  Do  you 
know  how  many  have  contributed  to 
its  success?  I  want  to  point  out  a  few 
even  at  the  risk  of  omitting  merited 
names. 

I  have  mentioned  those  who  before- 
hand wished  to  make  attractive  and 
beautiful  the  rostrum  and  express  their 
love  in  flowers.  Again  we  mention 
them. 

Throughout  the  sessions  we  have  ex- 
pressed our  gratitude  to  the  radio  sta- 
tions and  television  stations,  making  it 
possible  for  tens  of  thousands  to  hear 
the  message  of  the  gospel  from  these 
leaders,  and  how  impressively,  elo- 
quently they  have  given  their  messages. 

We  have  said  "thank  you"  to  the 
members  of  the  choirs,  but  let  me  men- 
tion them  again:  The  Brigham  Young 
University  choruses,  with  Brother  Ralph 
Woodward  and  Brother  Crawford  Gates 
conducting.  Those  young  people — you 
will  never  forget  that  picture — filling  the 
seats  of  the  choir  and  overflowing  into 
the  galleries,  young  people  with  high 
hopes,  young  people  with  faith,  young 
people  of  purity.  We  appreciate  what 
they  did. 

And  even  more  impressive,  if  that 
could  be,  our  Singing  Mothers!  I  cannot 
mention  the  name  "mother"  without 
being  overcome  with  emotion.  Those 
mothers  who  furnished  that  singing 
were  the  mothers  of  1600  children!  Even 
their  title,  "Singing  Mothers,"  tells  a 
story  of  sacrifice,  a  story  of  love,  a  story 
of  home.  No  wonder  they  could  sing 
the  songs  of  Zion  so  inspirationally  un- 
der the  masterful  leadership  of  Sister 
Florence  Jepperson  Madsen. 

Then  there  was  the  Reno  Latter-day 


Third  Day 

Saints  male  chorus  under  Ladd  R. 
Cropper,  director — whose  singing  in- 
spired 31,000  members  of  the  priest- 
hood last  night.  We  thank  them. 

And  today  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  sing- 
ing the  songs  which  inspired  thousands 
in  Europe.  And  when  they  sing  the  clos- 
ing song,  try  to  picture  yourself  listening 
to  them  in  London  or  in  Glasgow  or 
Paris,  Switzerland,  Holland,  or  East 
Germany,  and  see  those  audiences  filled 
with  enthusiasm,  inspired,  as  this  won- 
derful choir  sang,  "Come,  Come,  Ye 
Saints."  It  is  said  that  our  "echoes  roll 
from  soul  to  soul,  and  go  forever  and 
forever."  Well,  the  echoes  of  those 
choruses  are  rolling  in  the  souls  of  thou- 
sands over  in  Europe  and  will  continue 
so  to  do  for  a  long  time  to  come.  To 
Director  Cornwall  and  the  organists  we 
again  express  appreciation. 

Not  many  of  you,  I  think,  have  no- 
ticed how  attentive,  how  considerate, 
how  prompt  have  been  the  ushers  under 
the  direction  of  Bishop  Isaacson.  They 
have  spent  hours  here  since  conference 
began — during  meeting,  between  ses- 
sions— from  morning  till  night.  We 
extend  to  you  ushers  thanks  for  your 
courtesy,  consideration,  and  the  very 
excellent  way  in  which  you  have  di- 
rected the  affairs  put  into  your  hands. 

I  have  often  spoken  about  the  atten- 
tion given  by  our  police  department.  I 
do  not  know  that  they  have  ever  ren- 
dered greater  service  than  they  have 
throughout  this  conference.  You  who 
have  had  to  travel  around  this  block 
have  noticed  three  of  our  policemen, 
courteously  watching  to  see  that  no  ac- 
cident occurs:  here  on  the  south  gate 
two  men;  at  the  west  gate  another;  out 
at  the  north  gate  another;  and  others  at 
crowded  intersections  throughout  the 
city.  To  the  mayor  and  city  council, 
chief  of  police,  and  to  all  the  members 
of  that  force  we  say  "thank  you"  this 
day.  To  the  Red  Cross  who  have  been 
here  faithfully  to  render  any  help  to 
those  in  need,  to  the  fire  department, 
members  of  which  have  stood  on  guard 
in  case  of  some  accident,  to  the  reporters 
who  have  reported  the  exercises  so  effi- 
ciently and  accurately — to  all  of  you,  we 
express  sincere  appreciation. 

Now  I  should  like  to  express  appre- 
ciation for  a  group  of  workers  not  con- 
nected directly  with  this  conference  but 


PRESIDENT  D 

who  are  energetically  contributing  to 
the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord: 
the  volunteer  labor  missionaries  who 
are  down  in  New  Zealand,  down  in 
Hawaii,  who  will  be  in  Mexico  and 
other  places  where  schools  and  temples 
are  being  built;  we  should  like  them  to 
know  that  we  have  them  in  mind  and 
that  they  have  our  blessing,  able  busi- 
nessmen, skilled  in  carpentry,  cement 
work,  steel  work.  Not  many  in  the 
Church  know  what  they  are  doing.  But 
it  is  a  great  force  of  skilled  workmen 
contributing  to  the  upbuilding  of  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

And  we  shall  mention,  too,  the  young 
men  who  accept  one-year,  two-year  mis- 
sion calls  to  lay  bricks,  or  to  drive 
trucks,  repair  machinery,  etc.  Young 
men,  we  appreciate  what  you  are  doing. 
It  is  a  great  school  for  you,  and  you  learn 
much  even  while  you  contribute  your 
time  and  effort. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  express  gratitude  to 
my  beloved  associates,  the  General  Au- 
thorities, who  so  kindly  and  considerate- 
ly made  mention  of  my  half  century  of 
service  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
It  was  most  gracious  of  you  to  express 
your  congratulations  and  particularly 
your  loyalty.  The  words  coming  from 
your  hearts  as  they  did  touched  me 
deeply. 

Next  to  the  affection  we  have  for  our 
home  and  loved  ones,  we  prize  the  loy- 
alty of  friends,  but  even  more  precious 
is  the  true  feeling  of  brotherhood  in 
Christ.  This  choicest  of  all  blessings  in 
human  association  in  the  Church  has 
been  most  manifest  during  this  confer- 
ence ever  since  our  meeting  referred  to 
by  Brother  Kimball  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities in  the  house  of  the  Lord  last 
Thursday  morning,  and  as  expressed 
throughout  this  conference.  Truly,  we 
can  sense  more  clearly  than  ever  what 
John  the  apostle  had  in  mind  when  he 
wrote,  "We  know  that  we  have  passed 
from  death  unto  life,  because  we  love 
the  brethren."  (I  John  3:14.)  And  I 
wish  to  tell  you  auxiliary  workers  and 
you  members  in  the  priesthood  quorums 
of  stakes  and  wards,  that  the  brethren 
love  you  just  that  way. 

And  what  the  Primary  is  doing — you 
could  see  by  the  reports  of  the  great 
convention,  and  the  high  percentage  of 
children  that  they  have  in  attendance 


VID  O.  McKAY  123 

at  their  weekly  meetings — they  are  do- 
ing just  what  you  brethren  have  asked 
them  to  do.  The  Young  Women's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association  has  en- 
rolled every  girl  in  the  Church.  They 
will  help  you  teachers — your  local 
Young  Women's  Association  and  its  of- 
ficers— to  find  out  when  one  of  the  girls 
is  moving  to  another  place,  and  they 
will  be  there  to  welcome  them  and  to 
try  to  help  them.  The  Young  Men's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  Association  in  their 
competitive  games,  in  their  cultural,  in- 
spirational meetings — what  a  wonder- 
ful work  they  are  doing!  So,  also,  the 
great  Sunday  School  cause,  and  our 
mothers  in  Relief  Society — where  in  all 
the  world  can  you  find  so  many  groups 
working  so  efficiently — helps  in  gov- 
ernment, as  guides  to  your  children — 
as  you  find  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ! 

We  are  not  boasting;  we  are  just 
stating  facts.  We  might  not  say  it  to 
you  officers  of  these  auxiliaries,  but  we 
love  you,  and  in  our  hearts  are  prayers 
for  your  success.  And  the  priesthood 
quorums,  the  deacons  and  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  the  teachers  and  the  priests 
— there  again,  every  one  enrolled,  an 
opportunity  for  every  boy  to  be  active; 
instead  of  having  the  gang-spirit,  where 
the  members  try  to  destroy  or  to  inter- 
fere with  the  ease  and  comfort  of  others, 
we  have  them  active  and  rendering 
service  to  others.  And  that  means,  as 
President  Clark  stated,  over  a  hundred 
thousand  of  them,  and  the  Presiding 
Bishopric  bringing  in  the  Senior  Aaronic 
members;  then  the  Melchizedek,  the 
elders,  seventies,  and  high  priests — there 
is  where  we  touch  our  home  life. 

There  are  three  parables  to  which 
I  shall  refer  and  close,  all  relating 
to  lost  ones.  What  I  have  said  re- 
lates to  preventing  them  from  getting 
on  the  highway  that  leads  to  the  de- 
tention home  or  to  the  penitentiary. 
Christ  gave  three  parables  which  you 
will  find  in  the  15th  chapter  of  Luke. 
One  is  the  parable  of  the  Lost  Sheep 
which  wandered  away  from  the  flock; 
the  second  was  the  loss  of  one  of  Ten 
Pieces  of  Silver  by  a  housewife;  and 
the  third  was  the  Prodigal  Son. 

The  first  referred  to  one  that  just 
simply  wandered  because  it  wanted  to 
seek  the  best  in  sustenance  of  life;  there 


124 

Sunday,  April  8 

was  no  sin  involved.  It  became  so  en- 
grossed in  its  own  welfare  that  it  wan- 
dered away  from  the  flock. 

The  second  was  largely  due  to  care- 
lessness, neglect;  and  the  third  was  a 
determination  to  an  abandonment  to  a 
life  of  indulgence  and  sin. 

Now  you  will  find  many  in  the 
Church  of  these  boys  and  girls  who 
drift  from  the  Church  because  of  other 
interests.  They  are  not  bad  boys.  Find 
them,  bring  them  back  into  activity  in 
the  fold. 

In  the  second  parable,  the  parents, 
through  carelessness,  let  the  girls  go,  or 
the  girls  defy  parental  interference  or 
authority.  Often  the  boys  start  out  with 
wrong  companions.  You  know  how  to 
deal  with  them — get  them,  too,  into 
activity. 

The  third,  the  prodigal  son  or  the 
prodigal  girl  who  goes  down  the  line, 
who  refuses  the  invitation  to  come  back, 
refuses  to  enter  into  the  activity  of  the 
Church — such  a  one,  as  did  the  prodigal 
son,  will  go,  I  suppose,  until  he  comes  to 
himself  and  then,  as  President  Rich- 
ards so  eloquently  expressed  today,  the 
spirit  of  repentance  and  the  spirit  of 
forgiveness  will  be  operative. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  may  our  Heav- 
enly Father  sanctify  the  instructions, 
admonitions,  and  testimonies  that  we 
have  heard  throughout  this  great  and 
memorable  conference.  May  he  fill  our 
hearts  with  love  for  one  another  in  the 
true  brotherhood  of  Christ.  May  that 
love  in  our  homes,  in  our  groups,  in 
priesthood,  and  in  the  auxiliaries  radiate 
so  effectively  that  others  seeing  our  good 
lives  may  be  led  to  glorify  our  Father 
in  heaven,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Come, 
Come,  Ye  Saints,"  as  they  sang  it 
throughout  Europe.  Following  the 
singing,  the  closing  prayer  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Samuel  Ross  Fox,  Sr., 
president  of  South  Salt  Lake  Stake, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed for  six  months. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Confer- 
ence will  convene  in  the  Salt  Lake  Tab- 
ernacle tonight  at  7:00  o'clock  Sun- 
day School  workers  are  expected  to  be 
in  attendance,  and  all  others  are  in- 
vited. 

Now  we  shall  have  the  benediction 
by  Elder  Samuel  Ross  Fox,  and  this 
Conference  will  stand  adjourned. 


Elder  Samuel  Ross  Fox,  president  of 
the  South  Salt  Lake  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  congregational  singing  was  con- 
ducted by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor  and 
Assistant  Conductor,  respectively,  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  choral  music  for  the  Friday  ses- 
sions was  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses, 
with  Ralph  Woodward  conducting  at 
the  morning  meeting,  and  Crawford 
Gates  at  the  afternoon  meeting. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers 
of  the  Pioneer,  Salt  Lake  and  Sugar 
House  Regions  and  the  Davis,  Layton 
and  North  Davis  Stakes,  furnished  mu- 
sic for  the  Saturday  morning  and  after- 
noon sessions,  with  Sister  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen  conducting. 

At  the  General  Priesthood  meeting 
Saturday  evening,  the  Reno  Latter-day 
Saints  Male  Chorus  furnished  musical 
numbers,  the  director  being  Ladd  R. 
Cropper. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the  Sun- 
day sessions,  and  also  the  Church  of  the 
Air  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Or- 
gan broadcasts. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on 
the  organ  were  played  by  Alexander 
Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M. 
Darley.  j 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 
were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 
Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


125 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at 
8:00  a.m.,  Sunday,  April  8,  1956.  The 
program  was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the 
direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fur- 
nished the  music  for  this  service,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  is  the  Work" 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is 
presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  clergy- 
men of  many  faiths  may  speak  to  a 
nationwide  congregation.  Today's  pro- 
gram, in  connection  with  the  Annual 
General  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes 
to  you  transcribed  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  is  Elder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  President  of  the 
Council  of  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Music  is  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 
with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Tabernacle   Choir  opens  this 


service  today  with  two  hymn  melodies 
by  George  Careless:  the  first,  with  words 
by  John  Jaques:  "Softly  Beams  the  Sa- 
cred Dawning.  .  .  .  Swiftly  flee  the 
clouds  of  darkness,  Speedily  the  mists 
retire;  Nature's  universal  blackness  is 
consumed  by  heav'nly  fire." 

And  the  second  with  the  words  of 
Eliza  R.  Snow:  "Though  Deep'ning 
Trials  Throng  Your  Way,  Press  on,  ye 
Saints  of  God!  Ere  long  the  resurrec- 
tion day  will  spread  its  life  and  truth 
abroad.  Lift  up  your  hearts  in  praise 
to  God;  Let  your  rejoicing  never  cease; 
Though  tribulations  rage  abroad,  Christ 
says,  'In  me  ye  shall  have  peace.' " 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Softly  Beams  the 
Sacred  Dawning."  —  Careless;  and 
"Though  Deep'ning  Trials." — Careless.) 

Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on 
this  Church  of  the  Air  service  Presi- 
dent Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Author, 
Church  Historian  and  President  of  the 
Council  of  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  President  Smith  has  titled  to- 
day's talk:  "Significance  of  the  Atone- 
ment." 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


At  this  season  of  the  year  the  atten- 
tion of  Christians  everywhere  is  cen- 
tered on  the  resurrection  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  well  that  it  is  so; 
for  this  is  the  most  important  event 
that  ever  occurred  in  our  fallen  world. 
When  Adam  and  Eve  were  placed  in 
the  Garden  of  Eden,  there  was  no 
death.  It  was  by  the  violation  of  a 
commandment  that  brought  mortality 
and  death  upon  them.  The  Lord  said 
to  them: 

".  .  .  Of  every  tree  of  the  garden  thou 
mayest  freely  eat:  But  of  the  tree  of 
the  knowledge  of  good  and  evil,  thou 
shalt  not  eat  of  it:  for  in  the  day  that 
thou  eatest  thereof  thou  shalt  surely 
die."  (Genesis  2:16,  17.) 

After  they  had  eaten  the  Lord  cursed 
the  ground  for  their  sakes  and  said: 

"In  the  sweat  of  thy  face  shalt  thou 


eat  bread,  till  thou  return  unto  the 
ground;  for  out  of  it  wast  thou  taken: 
for  dust  thou  art,  and  unto  dust  shalt 
thou  return."  (Genesis  3:19.) 

This  mortal  death  we  have  inherited, 
and  it  is  decreed  that  every  soul  shall 
die.  However,  it  is  not  the  purpose 
of  the  Lord  that  this  condition  shall 
endure  forever.  Justice  demanded  that 
the  broken  law  should  be  repaired. 
Death  was  not  to  gain  the  victory.  Man- 
kind were  not  to  be  forced  to  partake 
of  everlasting  destruction  from  which 
there  could  be  no  relief.  Knowing  what 
Adam  would  do,  the  Lord  has  pre- 
pared the  way  for  man's  escape  from 
this  awful  fate.  To  bring  this  restora- 
tion it  was  necessary  that  there  could 
be  an  infinite  atonement  that  would 
repair  the  broken  law.  It  would  have 
been  Adam's  place  to  pay  the  penalty 


126 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


for  his  transgression;  but  Adam  had 
placed  himself  beyond  the  power  by 
which  such  an  atonement  could  come. 
Death  had  gained  a  victory  over  him 
and  likewise  over  his  posterity. 

Therefore  it  became  necessary  that 
one  who  was  without  sin  and  free  from 
the  power  of  death,  and  yet  with  the 
power  to  die,  should  come  to  make  the 
sacrifice  and  redeem  mankind  from  the 
grave  and  likewise  grant  them  power 
of  remission  of  their  sins.  To  fulfill 
this  mission  the  Son  of  God  was  chosen 
and  sent  into  the  world  to  pay  the 
debt.  Peter  bears  record  of  this  where- 
in he  declared: 

"Forasmuch  as  ye  know  that  ye  were 
not  redeemed  with  corruptible  things, 
as  silver  and  gold,  from  your  vain  con- 
versations received  by  tradition  from 
your  fathers:  But  with  the  precious 
blood  of  Christ,  as  of  a  lamb  without 
blemish  and  without  spot; 

"Who  verily  was  foreordained  be- 
fore the  foundation  of  the  world,  but 
was  manifest  in  these  times  for  you." 
(1  Peter  1:18-20.) 

Likewise  the  angel  revealed  to  John 
in  his  glorious  vision: 

"And  all  that  dwell  upon  the  earth 
shall  worship  him,  whose  names  are 
not  written  in  the  book  of  life  of  the 
Lamb  slain  from  the  foundation  of  the 
world."  (Rev.  13:8.) 

Paul,  in  writing  to  the  Church  in 
Corinth  taught  the  atonement  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  redemption  from  the 
grave.  Said  he: 

"If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in 
Christ,  we  are  of  all  men  most  miser- 
able. 

"But  now  is  Christ  risen  from  the 
dead,  and  became  the  first  fruits  of 
them  that  slept. 

"For  since  by  man  came  death,  by 
man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead. 

"For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in 
Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 

"But  every  man  in  his  own  order: 
Christ  the  firstfruits;  afterward  they 
that  are  Christ's  at  his  coming. 

"Then  cometh  the  end,  when  he  shall 
have  delivered  up  the  kingdom  of  God, 
even  the  Father;  when  he  shall  have 
put  down  all  rule  and  all  authority  and 
power. 


"For  he  must  reign  till  he  hath  put 
all  enemies  under  his  feet. 

"The  last  enemy  that  shall  be  de- 
stroyed is  death. 

"For  he  hath  put  all  things  under 
his  feet.  But  when  he  saith  all  things 
are  put  under  him,  it  is  manifest  that 
he  is  excepted,  which  did  put  all  things 
under  him. 

"And  when  all  things  shall  be  sub- 
dued unto  him,  then  shall  the  Son  also 
himself  be  subject  unto  him  that  put 
all  things  under  him,  that  God  may  be 
all  in  all."  (1  Cor.  15:19-38.) 

Jesus  proclaimed  himself  to  be  the 
"resurrection  and  the  life,"  (John  11: 
25)  and  to  the  Jews  he  said: 

"For  as  the  Father  raiseth  up  the 
dead,  and  quickeneth  them;  even  so 
the  Son  quickeneth  whom  he  will.  *  *  * 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  He 
that  heareth  my  word,  and  believeth 
on  him  that  sent  me,  hath  everlasting 
life,  and  shall  not  come  into  condem- 
nation, but  is  passed  from  death  unto 
life. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you.  The 
hour  is  coming  and  now  is,  when  the 
dead  shall  hear  the  voice  of  the  Son 
of  God:  and  they  that  hear  shall  live. 

"For  as  the  Father  hath  life  in  him- 
self; so  hath  he  given  to  the  Son  to 
have  life  in  himself; 

"And  hath  given  him  authority  to 
execute  judgment  also,  because  he  is 
the  Son  of  man. 

"Marvel  not  at  this:  For  the  hour 
is  coming,  in  the  which  all  that  are 
in  the  graves  shall  hear  his  voice, 

"And  shall  come  forth;  they  that 
have  done  good,  unto  the  resurrection 
of  life;  and  they  that  have  done  evil, 
unto  the  resurrection  of  damnation." 
(John  5:21,  24-29.) 

Again  he  said  to  the  Jews: 

"Even  as  the  Son  of  man  came  not 
to  be  ministered  unto,  but  to  minister, 
and  to  give  his  life  a  ransom  for  many." 
(Matt.  20:28.) 

There  is  not  a  more  beautiful  say- 
ing in  the  Bible  than  these  words  of 
Jesus: 

"And  as  Moses  lifted  up  the  serpent 
in  the  wilderness,  even  so  must  the 
Son  of  Man  be  lifted  up; 

"That  whosoever  believeth  in  him 
should  not  perish,  but  have  eternal  life. 

"For  God  so  loved  the  world,  that 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


127 


he  gave  his  only  begotten  Son,  that 
whosoever  believeth  in  him  should  not 
perish,  but  have  everlasting  life. 

"For  God  sent  not  his  Son  into  the 
world  to  condemn  the  world;  but  that 
the  world  through  him  might  be  saved. 

"He  that  believeth  on  him  is  not 
condemned:  but  he  that  believeth  not 
is  condemned  already,  because  he  hath 
not  believed  in  the  name  of  the  only 
begotten  Son  of  God. 

"And  this  is  the  condemnation,  that 
light  is  come  into  the  world,  and  men 
loved  darkness  rather  than  light,  be- 
cause their  deeds  were  evil. 

"For  every  one  that  doeth  evil  hateth 
the  light,  neither  cometh  to  the  light, 
lest  his  deeds  should  be  reproved. 

"But  he  that  doeth  truth  cometh  to 
the  light  that  his  deeds  may  be  made 
manifest,  that  they  are  wrought  in 
God."  (John  3:14-21.) 

The  atonement  by  which  men  are 
redeemed,  was  made  by  one  without 
blemish  and  without  spot.  He  had  to 
be  one  who  had  life  in  himself,  and 
therefore  all  power  over  death.  No 
mortal  man  could  make  the  atonement. 
Moreover,  the  atonement  had  to  be 
made  by  the  shedding  of  blood,  for 
blood  is  the  vitalizing  force  of  the 
mortal  body.  Therefore  the  Lord  said 
to  ancient  Israel: 

"And  whatsoever  man  there  be  of 
the  house  of  Israel,  or  of  the  strangers 
that  sojourn  among  you,  that  eateth 
my  manner  of  blood:  I  will  even  set 
my  face  against  that  soul  that  eateth 
blood,  and  will  cut  him  off  from  among 
the  people. 

"For  the  life  of  the  flesh  is  in  the 
blood:  and  I  have  given  it  to  you  upon 
the  altar  to  make  an  atonement  for  your 
souls:  for  it  is  the  blood  that  maketh  an 
atonement  for  the  soul."  (Lev.  17:10- 
11.) 

In  Hebrews  it  is  also  written: 
"And  almost  all  things  are  by  the 
law  purged  with  blood;  and  without 
shedding  of  blood  is  no  remission." 
(Hebrews  9:22.) 

The  Scriptures  are  replete  with  pas- 
sages teaching  us  that  there  could  be 
no  remission  of  sins  without  the  shed- 
ding of  the  blood  of  Jesus  Christ.  He, 
when  with  his  apostles  at  the  feast  of 
the  last  Passover,  broke  and  blessed 
bread  and  gave  it  to  them  to  eat;  like- 


wise he  blessed  the  wine  and  gave  it  to 
them  to  drink,  saying: 

"For  this  is  my  blood  of  the  testa- 
ment, which  is  shed  for  many  for  the 
remission  of  sins."  (Matt.  26:28.) 

Again  to  his  disciples  he  said: 

"I  am  the  good  shepherd,  and  know 
my  sheep,  and  am  known  of  mine. 

"As  the  Father  knoweth  me,  even 
so  know  I  the  Father,  and  I  lay  down 
my  life  for  the  sheep.  *  *  * 

"Therefore  doth  my  Father  love  me, 
because  I  lay  down  my  life  that  I  might 
take  it  again. 

"No  man  taketh  it  from  me,  but  I 
lay  it  down  of  myself.  I  have  power 
to  lay  it  down,  and  I  have  power 
to  take  it  again.  This  commandment 
have  I  received  of  my  Father."  (John 
10:14,  15,  17,  18.) 

We  learn  then  from  these  passages 
that  the  atonement  is  universal  in  its 
application.  And  every  creature  will 
benefit  by  it.  First,  there  is  a  universal 
redemption  from  death.  It  is  uncon- 
ditional. The  children  of  Adam  had 
no  agency  in  the  transgression  of  their 
first  parents,  therefore  they  are  not  re- 
quired to  exercise  any  agency  in  their 
redemption  from  its  penalty.  They  are 
redeemed  from  death,  without  faith, 
repentance,  baptism,  or  any  other  act, 
either  of  mind  or  of  body.  These  are 
the  dead  who  have  broken  the  cove- 
nants, violated  the  commandments  and 
who  loved  darkness  rather  than  light. 

The  other  salvation  is  that  which  is 
given  to  the  righteous,  those  who  confess 
repentance  and  a  willingness  to  obey 
the  commandments  of  God.  These  are 
they  of  whom  the  Savior  spoke,  who 
have  "everlasting  life,"  and  shall  not 
come  into  condemnation;  but  have 
"passed  from  death  unto  life,"  which 
life  is  to  dwell  in  eternal  glory. 

"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and 
great,  stand  before  God;  and  the  books 
were  opened:  and  another  book  was 
opened,  which  is  the  book  of  life:  and 
the  dead  were  judged  out  of  those  things 
which  were  written  in  the  books  ac- 
cording to  their  works. 

"And  the  sea  gave  up  the  dead  which 
were  in  it;  and  death  and  hell  delivered 
up  the  dead  which  were  in  them:  and 
they  were  judged  every  man  according 
to  their  works."  (Rev.  20:12-13.) 


128 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Need  Thee 
Every  Hour.") 

Announcer:  "Our  Father  which  art 
in  heaven,  Hallow'd  be  Thy  Name. 
Thy  kingdom  come,  thy  will  be  done 
in  earth  as  it  is  in  heav'n."  The  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  closes  this  service  from 
Temple  Square  with  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  music  by  B.  Cecil  Gates. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Lord's 
Prayer."— Gates.) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  Today's 
service,  in  connection  with  the  Annual 
General  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  came 
to  you  transcribed  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  through 
the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  was 
Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  President 
of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Music  was  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  under  the  direction  of  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall.  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  at  the  organ. 

SALT  LAKE  TABERNACLE 
CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00 
a.m.  Sunday,  April  8,  1956,  through  the 
courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States.  The  broadcast 
was  as  follows: 

(The  organ  played  "As  the  Dew  from 
Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal  the 
Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the  hymn, 
"Gently  Raise  The  Sacred  Strain," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the 
second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of 
verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spen- 
cer Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 


Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle 
Organist  and  the  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

First  sung  by  the  Choir  is  Philip 
James'  choral  setting  of  a  theme  from 
Franz  Liszt:  "Ave  Verum"  "Jesu,  Word 
of  God  Incarnate." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Ave  Verum."— 
Liszt.) 

Announcer:  Alexander  Schreiner  turns 
first  today  to  the  quiet  meditative  qual- 
ity of  a  study  in  pastel  harmonies  by 
Leo  Sowerby — a  study  called:  "Caril- 
lon." 

(Organ  selection:  "Carillon." — Sower- 
by.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
next  sings  a  sacred  song  from  the  17th 
century — with  a  theme  by  Johann 
Cruger  as  harmonized  by  Bach:  "Jesu, 
Priceless  Treasure." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Jesu,  Priceless 
Treasure." — Bach.) 

Announcer:  With  the  women's  voices 
of  the  Choir  we  turn  to  Ernest  Charles' 
thoughtful  writing  of  the  ever  restless 
moving,  of  the  inconstant  clouds: 
"Clouds  adrift  in  the  summer  sky,  re- 
semble life  as  they  wander  by.  Whence 
they  come  and  whither  they  go,  we 
often  wonder  but  never  know  .  .  .  Part 
of  the  infinite  shall  we  say,  part  of  the 
moment  we  call  today." 

(The  Women's  Chorus  of  the  Choir 
sang:  "Clouds."— -Charles.) 

Announcer: 

Last  week  we  talked  of  the  reality  of 
the  resurrection  and  of  man's  immor- 
tality. Scripture  and  reason  and  revela- 
tion, as  well  as  the  very  awareness 
within  us,  all  attest  to  man's  eternal 
continuance.  Since  this  is  so,  since  men 
are  immortal,  how  should  we  best  use 
our  time,  what  should  we  most  try  to 
acquire?  The  answer  to  this  calls  for 
another  question:  What  can  we  take 
with  us  when  we  leave  this  life;  what 
can  we  take  with  us  into  eternity? — 
the  reward  of  our  works;  the  love  of 
loved  ones;  memory;  the  knowledge  of 
truth;  intelligence;  our  own  indestruct- 
ible identity — and  the  power  to  progress. 
Since  this  is  so,  what  men  learn,  what 
they  think,  what  they  know,  how  they 
live,  what  they  are  inside  themselves,  is 
of  everlasting  importance.  And  this 
places  a  premium  on  the  pursuit  of 
knowledge,  on  the  love  of  learning,  on 


CHOIR  AND  OR 

acquiring  true  and  timeless  things 
within  ourselves.  This  places  less  of  a 
premium  on  mere  things,  and  more  on 
what  we  could  carry  with  us — anywhere 
— wherever  we  went — even  if  we  had 
to  flee  for  our  lives — even  if  we  lost  our 
lives.  This  places  a  premium  on  learn- 
ing, not  as  narrowly  denned,  not  merely 
as  academic  credits  and  credentials,  but 
learning  in  the  largest,  sincerest  sense, 
with  the  assurance  that  "whatever  prin- 
ciple of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in 
this  life,  it  will  rise  with  us  in  the  resur- 
rection."1 This  places  an  obligation 
upon  us  to  improve  our  minds,  to  feed 
our  souls,  to  seek,  and  never  to  be  smug- 
ly satisfied,  and  never  to  starve  the 
spirit,  and  never  to  pursue  the  search 
along  too  narrow  lines — but  to  feed 
each  side  of  ourselves  and  acquire  ac- 
quaintance with  great  truths,  great 
books,  great  minds,  great  men;  with 
scripture  and  with  things  of  the  spirit, 
as  well  as  the  tangible  physical  factors 
— in  short  to  seek  out  everything  ".  .  . 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or 
praiseworthy  .  .  .'" — to  seek  knowledge, 
truth,  and  understanding  for  the  present 
and  for  everlasting  life,  for  "The  Glory 
of  God  is  intelligence  .  .  ."* — and  in- 
telligence leads  to  light  and  truth,  and 
to  the  love  of  light  and  truth.  All  this 
makes  learning  and  the  sincere  love  of 
learning,  the  love  of  truth  and  light, 
not  only  an  opportunity  but  an  obliga- 
tion. 

(Organ  Selection:  "Ye  Children  of 
Our  God."— Careless.) 


^Doctrine  &  Covenants,  130:18. 
»13th  Article  of  Faith. 
•Doctrine  &  Covenants,  93:36. 


\N  BROADCAST  129 

Announcer:  With  Alexander  Schrei- 
ner  at  the  organ,  we  have  heard  one 
of  the  hymn  melodies  of  George  Care- 
less: "Ye  Children  of  our  God,  Ye 
Saints  of  latter  days,  Surround  the  table 
of  our  Lord,  and  join  to  sing  his 
praise." 

And  now  from  the  Viking  legends  of 
the  Northland,  we  hear  Grieg's  song 
of  Olav  Trygvason  who  boldly  sailed  the 
northern  seas  in  search  of  virgin  shores 
— of  Olav  Trygvason  who  failed  to  find 
harbor,  and  faced  the  loss  of  life — but 
who  found  himself;  and  faith,  and  God, 
and  much  more  than  the  material  and 
perishable  things  for  which  he  first  set 
out  to  search.  The  men's  chorus  of  the 
Choir  sings  in  closing  Grieg's  stirring 
song  of  "Discovery." 

(The  Men's  Chorus  of  the  Choir  sang: 
"Discovery." — Grieg.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this 
day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  1390th  presenta- 
tion, continuing  the  27th  year  of  this 
traditional  broadcast  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought 
to  you  by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated 
stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station 
KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three  hun- 
dred seventy-five  voices.  Alexander 
Schreiner  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken 
word  by  Richard  Evans.  , 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  once  more  from  the  Cross- 
roads of  the  West. 


Index 


Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph   19 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained    26 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S   40 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B   103 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W   66 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch  Organizations    19 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    128 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L   113 

Church  of  the  Air    125 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report    26 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   38 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.    26 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.    81 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  _   43 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L   128 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report    23 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting    3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   19 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present    1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained    26 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    74 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D   98 

Hunter,  Ej]der  Milton  R   48 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B   47 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   100 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   118 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A   17 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   107 

Longden,  Elder  John   45 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   64 

McKay,  President  David  0   4 

(Opening  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0   85 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

McKay,  President  David  0   121 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  10,  13,  16,  18,  19,  26,  29,  31, 

34,  36,  37,  38,  40,  43,  45,  47,  48,  53,  54,  58,  59,  63, 

64,  66,  68,  73,  74,  75,  79,  81,  83,  85,  87,  88,  89,  94, 

98,  100,  102,  106,  107,  111,  113,  115,  117,  121,  124. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   29 


INDEX  131 

Page 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q   Ill 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D   59 

Obituaries   22 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   75 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers    26 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General   74 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    94 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L    89 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G   68 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting    37 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    53 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   13 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   34 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    58 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding    125 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma    63 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L   54 

Statistical  and  Financial  Report    23 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers    26 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    128 

Third  Day— Morning  Meeting    88 

Third  Day— Afternoon  Meeting    107 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L   10 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E  115 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    32 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth    79 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 


