NINETY-NINTH 
ANNUAL 

CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

April  5,  6,  and  7,  1929 

With  a  Fall  Report  of  All 
the  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


A  BOOK  FOR  A  GIFT— GIVE  A  COPY  OF 


JOSEPH  SMITH 

The  Prophet-Teacher 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

Contains 

"Religious  and  Philosophical  Beliefs  of  One  Hundred  Years 

Ago." 

"The  Prophet's  Correction  of  Sectarian  Errors." 
"The  Prophet's  Philosophical  Doctrines." 
And  other  interesting  and  enlightening  ideas. 

Price  $1.50— Postpaid. 

Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

The  New  Book 

For  our  choirs  and  adult  congregations  is  now  ready. 

It  contains  421  songs  with  music.  Many  of  the  old  favorites  and 
a  lot  of  new  ones. 

You'll  sing  better  and  more  happily  out  of  this  new  book. 
$1.00  Postpaid 
Per  Dozen,  $11.00 
Cash  With  the  Order,  $10.00  per  doz. 
EVERY  FAMILY  SHOULD  HAVE  A  COPY 

Deseret  Book  Company 

The  Home  of  Worth  While  Books 
44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


Ninety-Ninth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  Ninety-ninth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  5,  6,  and  7,  1929. 

The  proceedings  of  the  six  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  broad- 
cast] by  radio  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve :  Rudger  Clawson,  *,  George  Albert 
Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David  O.  McKay, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  James  E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  Richard 
R.  Lyman,  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  f. 

Presiding  Patriarch  :    Hyrum  G.  Smith. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy :  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Levi 
Edgar  Young,  and  Rey  L.  Pratt. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  %,  and 
Junius  F.  Wells. 

Presidents  of  stakes  and  their  counselors  were  well  represented 
from  the  one  hundred  and  one  stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  numerous 
high  priests,  seventies,  and  elders,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church,  were 
in  attendance.  Members  of  the  Board  of  Education,  and  general,  stake, 
and  ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations  were  present. 

Mission  Presidents  were  in  attendance  as  follows :  James  H.  Mo'yle, 
Eastern  States ;  Noah  S.  Pond,  Northern  States ;,  Samuel  O.  Bennion, 
Central  States ;  John  G.  Allred,  North  Central  States ;  Charles  H.  Hart, 
Canada;  William  R.  Sloan,  Northwestern  States;  Charles  A.  Callis, 
Southern  States ;  Miles  L.  Jones,  East  Central  States :  Elias  S.  Wood- 
ruff, Western  States;  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  California;  Rey  L.  Pratt, 
Mexico ;  Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Block, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Washington,  D.  C. 

tjohn  A.  Widtsoe  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
$A.  William  Lund  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  British  Mission. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  conference  began  promptly  at  10  o'clock, 
Friday  morning,  April  5th,  1929,  at  which  time  the  great  Tabernacle 
auditorium  and  galleries  were  well  filled  with  people  from  all  parts 
of  the  Church. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  hymn,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet,"  was  sung  by 
the  congregation. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  Granite  Stake  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  Thou  Great 
Jehovah." 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  rejoice  to  have  the  opportunity  of  again  meeting  with  the  Saints 
in  general  conference.  I  am  very  grateful  for  this  splendid  audience, 
considering  the  inclemency  of  the  weather.  I  most  earnestly  pray  that 
while  we  are  assembled  here  together  the  prayer  that  has  been  offered 
may  be  answered  and  we  may  have  a  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  that  those  who  address  us,  those  who  offer  prayers  and  those 
who  sing  for  us  may  be  inspired  and  blessed  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

It  has  been  one  of  the  joys  of  my  life  to  attend,  from  my  childhood 
days  until  the  present  time,  the  general  conferences  of  the  Church,  and 
to  partake  of  the  remarkable  and  wonderful  blessings  that  have  come 
to  us  from  those  who  have  been  called  upon  to  speak. 

It  is  customary  at  our  annual  conferences  to  give  some  information 
regarding  the  condition  of  the  Church  financially  and  otherwise. 

MISSIONARY  WORK 

I  rejoice  to  say  that  our  missionary  work  all  over  the  world  is 
progressing  favorably,  and  that  from  every  mission  we  have  earnest 
appeals  for  more  missionaries.  The  work  is  very  great  and  we  do  not 
have  as  many  laborers  as  we  would  like  to  have,  notwithstanding 
there  are  more  than  2,000  missionaries  out  in  the  world  today  pro- 
claiming the  Gospel. 

CHURCH  EXPENDITURES 

The  items  that  I  thought  would  be  of  special  interest  to  the  con- 
ference I  have  prepared : 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes — During  the  past  year  the  Church  has 
expended  more  than  $1,200,000  for  the  erection  of  ward  and  stake 
buildings.  The  people  themselves  have  contributed  for  this  same 
purpose  over  $1,000,000. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


Had  the  means  been  available  we  could  have  expended  as  much 
more,  by  responding  to  all  the  calls  that  have  come  to  us  for  funds 
with  which  to  construct  church  edifices.  But  inasmuch  as  the  tithes  of 
the  people  have  not  increased  in  proportion  to  the  applications  for 
funds  (in  fact  the  tithes  have  increased  very  little,  while  the  expendi- 
tures have  increased  over  $500,000)  we  have  been  unable  to  do  all 
that  we  should  have  liked  to  do. 

Up  until  about  twelve  years  ago  no  more  than  $300,000  in  any  one 
year  was  ever  contributed  by  the  Church  to  assist  in  building  meeting 
houses. 

Education — There  has  been  expended  more  than  $900,000  for  the 
construction  and  operation  of  Church  schools,  seminaries,  and  the  two 
institutes  that  have  been  erected. 

Missions — For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  missions  and  for 
the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  buildings  in  the  missions, 
there  has  been  expended  over  $900,000. 

Charity — The  total  expenditure  for  charity  rendered  by  the  Church, 
including  disbursements  from  fast  offerings,  and  assistance  rendered  by 
the  Relief  Societies,  is  more  than  $800,000. 

Missionary  IV ork — Various  wards  have  assisted  the  missionaries  by 
contributions  of  over  $100,000,  principally  for  the  purpose  of  sending 
them  to  their  fields  of  labor. 

More  than  2,000  missionaries  have  been  sustained  in  the  mission 
field  at  the  expense  of  their  families,  at  an  average  cost  per  missionary 
of  at  least  $40  per  month,  or  $960,000  a  year ;  to  say  nothing  about  the 
value  of  the  missionaries'  time,  which  H  am  sure  would  be  more  than 
double  this  amount,  as  they  could  earn  on  an  average  more  than  twice 
their  expenses. 

SEMINARIES  VERSUS  CHURCH  SCHOOLS 

There  are  today  12,500  students  in  our  seminaries  and  3,800  stu- 
dents in  our  Church  schools.  It  is  costing  more  than  twice  as  much 
to  support  the  3,800  students  in  the  Church  schools  as  it  is  to  support  the 
12,500  students  in  the  seminaries.  It  costs  over  ten  times  as  much  per 
capita  to  give  the  same  amount  of  religious  instruction  in  our  Church 
schools  as  is  given  in  our  seminaries. 

It  is  only  fair  to  say  that  the  religious  instruction  given  in  our 
seminaries  is  equally  as  extensive  and  as  thorough  as  that  given  in 
our  Church  schools.  We  have  appeals  from  all  over  the  Church,  where- 
ever  Church  schools  are  located,  that  we  do  not  close  these  institutions. 
The  people  in  each  stake  feel  that  their  particular  school  is  the  one 
that  ought  not  to  be  closed.  While  we  are  expending  more  now  and 
have  done  so  for  the  past  three  years  than  all  the  tithes  paid  by  the 
people  in  the  various  stakes  of  Zion  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  it  is 
an  impossibility  to  further  extend  our  seminary  system — which  has  been 
greatly  expanded  in  the  last  three  years — and  still  continue  our  Church 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


schoo/s.  When  you  stop  to  reflect  that  its  only  costs  a  little  less  than 
one-tenth  as  much  to  educate  our  young  people  religiously  in  the 
seminaries  as  it  does  in  the  Church  schools  you  will  realize  that  we 
are  justified  in  curtailing  our  schools  and  in  enlarging  our  seminaries — 
when  we  can  give  for  the  same  amount  as  much  if  not  a  little  more 
religious  education  to  ten  people  in.  a  seminary  as  we  can  give  to  one 
person  in  a  school.  We  would  be  delighted  if  it  were  possible  not 
(inly  to  keep  each  and  every  one  of  our  Church  schools  operating,  but  to 
have  more  of  them.  I  am  sure  that  figuratively  speaking  it  breaks  the 
hearts  of  the  presidency  and  of  each  and  all  of  the  general  authorities 
of  the  Church  to  close  any  one  of  the  Church  schools.  We  appreciate 
the  wonderful  labors  that  have  been  accomplished  and  the  wonderful 
good  that  has  been  clone  in  these  schools,  but  we  cannot,  without  facing 
a  deficit,  continue  to  expend  three  or  four  times  as  much  money  for 
building  meeting  houses  and  Church  schools  with  only  a  very  slight 
increase  in  our  tithes. 

Because  of  these  facts  we  would  like  the  people  to  understand  that 
in  closing  Church  schools  and  opening  seminaries  we  shall  be  able  to 
give  religious  instruction  to  about  ten  times  as  many  students. 

STATISTICAL  AND  OTHER  REPORTS  COMPILED  FROM  THE  CHURCH  RECORDS 

FOR  THE  YEAR  1928 

We  have  at  the  present  time:  stakes  in  Zion,  101;  wards,  938; 
independent  branches,  74;  dependent  branches,  36;  total  wards  and 
branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  1048 ;  missions, 
27 ;  mission  branches,  813. 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church 

in  the  stakes  and  missions   19  223 

Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions  15,073 

Converts  baptized  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  stakes 

and  missions    _  5  Q40 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries   from   Zion  December 
31,  1928   194.! 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December 

31,  1928    IgQ 

Number  of  local  missionaries   95 

Total  number  of  missionaries  on  foreign  missions   2,197 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  stakes   838 

Total  missionaries   3  035 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Mis- 
sionary Home    929 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  51  222 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate,  29.9  per  thousand. 

Marriage  rate,  14.7  per  thousand. 

Death  rate,  7.8  per  thousand. 

Families  owning  their  own  homes,  70  per  cent. 

These  figures  speak  very  well  for  the  Church.  The  first  great  com- 
mandment of  the  Lord,  given  to  our  firsH  parents,  was  to  multiply  and 
replenish  the  earth.  When  it  comes  to  the  death  rate,  we  have  one 
of  the  lowest  of  any  people,  showing  that  we  must  be  observing  the 
laws  of  health — and  the  laws  of  health  are  the  laws  of  God. 

I  have  often  said  in  my  public  addresses  out  in  the  world  that  when 
it  comes  to  vital  statistics,  such  as  a  high  birth  rate,  a  low  death  rate, 
a  low  insanity  rate,  a  low  divorce  rate,  in  fact  all  the  vital  statistics  that 
go  to  show  that  a  people  are  a  worthy  and  good  people,  we  are  making 
no  apology  to  any  one  upon  the  face  of  the  earth. 

CHANGES  IN  STAKE  AND  MISSION  OFFICERS  SINCE  OUR  LAST  CONFERENCE 

William  H.  Richards  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Malad 
stake,  and  Thomas  W.  Richards  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

William  T.  Jack  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Cassia  stake, 
and  Charles  S.  Clark  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

C.  Alvin  Orme  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Tooele  stake, 
and  Alfred  L.  Hanks  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

George  A.  Little  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Oquirrh 
stake,  and  Harry  Edward  Sutton  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

William  H.  Mendenhall  has  been  released  as  president  of  the 
Bannock  stake  and  M.  Ezra  Sorensen  appointed  to*  succeed  him. 

All  of  these  brethren  who  have  been  released  have  labored  with 
zeal,  with  energy  and  with  determination  for  the  advancement  of  the 
people  in  those  stakes,  and  they  retire  with  the  love  and  blessing  and 
confidence  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

A.  William  Lund  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  British 
mission. 

Heretofore  the  British  mission  has  been  under  the  direct  jurisdic- 
tion of  the  president  of  the  European  mission,  he  presiding  over  all 
of  the  missions  in  Europe  and  also  being  the  actual  head  of  the  British 
mission.  There  are  now  two  missions,  one  presided  over  by  Elder 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  which  includes  all  of  the  missions  in  Europe,  among 
them  being  the  British1  mission,  presided  over  by  Brother  Lund.  We 
have  received  very  good  reports  for  the  brief  time  since  this  division 
took  place. 

Samuel  Martin  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  South  African 
mission,  and  Don  Mack  Dalton  appointed  to  succeed  him. 

Lorenzo  W.  Anderson  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Nor- 
wegian mission,  and  Hyrum  D.  Jensen  appointed  to  succeed  him.  Brother 
Jensen,  I  believe,  left  yesterday  for  his  field  of  labor.    He  would  have 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


liked  very  much  to  be  here  at  this  conference,  but  on  account  of  the 
early  sailing  of  the  steamship,  he  left  yesterday. 

Alma  G.  Burton  has  been  released  as  president  of  the  Tahitian 
mission,  and  George  W.  Burbidge  appointed  to  succeed  him.  Brother 
Burton  has  not  yet  left  for  home. 

James  H.  Moyle  has  been  appointed  to  succeed  Brother  Henry  H. 
Rolapp  as  president  of  the  Eastern  States!  mission. 

Miles  L.  Jones  has  been  appointed  president  of  the  East  Central 
States  mission,  a  new  mission,  which  includes  a  part  of  the  territory 
heretofore  belonging  to  the  Southern  States  mission,  presided  over  by 
Brother  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  the  state  of  West  Virginia  formerly 
being  a  part  of  the  Eastern  States  mission. 

New  Ward  Organisations — Mount  Trumbull  ward,  St.  George 
stake. 

Lincoln  ward,  Granite  stake. 

Bishop,  who  has  passed  away  during  the  past  six  mdnths — Frank 
R.  Smith  of  the  Hillspring  ward,  Alberta  stake. 

Mission  president  zvho  has  passed  aivay  during  the  past  six  months 
— Joseph  W.  Booth  of  the  Armenian  mission. 

We  regret  that  the  circumtances  are  such  that  up  to  date  we  have 
been  unable  to  secure  permission  to  bring  the  body  of  Brother  Booth 
home,  but  we  expect  to  secure  permission  to  do  so  at  some  later  date. 

CHURCH  INSTITUTES 

Speaking  of  education  in  our  seminaries,  we  rejoice  in  the  erection 
during  the  past  year  of  an  institute  at  Moscow,  Idaho,  where  the  young 
Latter-day  Saints  who  are  attending  the  University  of  Idaho  can  re- 
ceive education  religiously.  We  rejoice  that  only  last  Sunday  an  in- 
stitute was  dedicated  where  the  young  people  attending  the  Agricultural 
college  at  Logan  can  have  the  opportunity  of  receiving  religious 
training. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  RELIGIOUS  TRAINING 

One  of  the  outstanding  characters  in  the  United  States  of  Amer- 
ica is  Honorable  James  J.  Davis,  Secretary  of  Labor.  He  has  this  to 
say  regarding  religious  training: 

"Morality  needs  a  religious  base.  A  man  can  not  be  truly  moral  unless 
he  is  at  the  same  time  deeply  religious.    *    *  * 

"Men  may  say  what  they  will,  but  we  shall  never  have  a  morality  that 
respects  the  rights  and  integrity  of  others  unless  our  morality  has  a  religious 
sanction.  To  put  morality  on  anything  but  a  religious  basis  is  to  build  on  sand. 
It  is_  religion  that  gives  vision,  strength,  inspiration,  and  without  it  we  are 
nothing.    *    *  * 

"I  have  children  of  my  own,  and  I  want  them  to  grow  up  into  men  and 
women  who  believe  that  religion  hasi  a  genuine  message  for  them,  as  it  has 
for  me.  I  don't  want  them  to  develop  into  atheists  and  materialists.  If  there 
is  no  truth  in  the  teachings  of  religion  that  have  come  down  to  us,  of 
what  earthly  use  would  life  be?  If  the  world  were  under  the  control  of 
blind  forces  operating  without  any  direction,  if  there  were  no  plan  behind 
the  creation  of  the  world  and  man,  and  if  after  our  little  span  of  life  here  we 


* 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


were  to  lie  down  for  eternity  in  a  dreamless  sleep,  then  I  do  not  see  what 
inspiration  life  would  have  for  any  of  us.    *    *  * 

"It  is  the  plants  we  prize  that  need  our  care.  So  at  is  with  the  young. 
Nobody  needs  to  train  his  son  to  be  vicious.  Let  him  go  without  training, 
and  he  will  be  that  of  his  own  accord.  But  virtue  has  to  be  cultivated,  and 
we  can  never  succeed  in  that  if  we  let  go  our  hold  on  religion. 

"No  nation  ever  lived  and  prospered  without  a  religious  faith  of  some 
sort.    *    *  * 

"No  people  has  ever  found  a  purely  intellectual  education  enough  in  itself. 
A  man  may  be  ever  so  highly  cultivated  and  still  be  a  bad  citizen.  One  of  the 
greatest  scholars  of  his  day,  Lord  Bacon,  took  bribes  as  a  judge  on  the  bench, 
and  eventually  found  himself  a  prisoner  in  the  Tower  of  London.  Probably 
the  poet  went  too  far  in  his  indictment,  but  we  see  the  wit  in  the  judgment 
he  passed  on  the  man,  as  'Brightest,  wisest,  meanest  of  mankind.'    *    *  * 

"As  institutions  where  facts  may  be  learned,  our  schools  are  worthy 
of  all  praise.  But  facts  are  not  everything.  They  are  not  even  the  most 
important  things  in  life.  One  might  pack  into  his  head  every  fact  to  be 
known,  and  yet  never  even  glimpse  the  kingdom  of  truth. 

"I  would  plead  for  a  conception  of  education  large  enough  to  take  into 
itself  everything  that  deepens  the  human  consciousness,  that  inspires  the 
human  soul,  and  gives  one  a  vision  of  the  eternities.  This,  a  moral  education, 
to  use  the  word  in  the  highest  sense,  will  do.  As  every  historian  can  show, 
morals  divorced  from  religion  are  sorry  affairs  without  any  point.  But 
morals  not  so  divorced  can  rise  to  the  height  that  religion  itself  has  attained." 

STATEMENT  BY  COOLIDGE 

Ex- President  Coolidge  made  the  following  statements: 

"Our  doctrine  of  equality  and  liberty,  and  humanity  and  charity,  comes 
from  our  belief  in  the  brotherhood  of  man  through  the  fatherhood  of  God. 
The  whole  foundation  of  enlightened  civilization,  in  government,  in  society, 
and  in  business,  rests  on  religion.  Unless  our  people  are  thoroughly  in- 
structed in  its  great  truths  they  are  not  fitted  either  to  understand  our  in- 
stitutions or  to  provide  them  with  adequate  support.  For  our  independent 
colleges  and  secondary  schools  to  be  neglectful  of  their  responsibilities  in  this 
direction  is  to  turn  their  graduates  loose  with  simply  an  increased  capacity 
to  prey  upon  each  other.  Such  a  dereliction  of  duty  would  put  in  jeopardy 
the  whole  fabric  of  society.  For  our  chartered  institutions  of  learning  to 
turn  back  to  the  material  and  neglect  the  spiritual  would  be  treason,  not  only 
to  the  cause  for  which  they  were  founded  but  to  man  and  to  God." 

"We  cannot  remind  ourselves  too  often  that  our  right  to  be  free,  the 
support  of  our  principles  of  justice,  our  obligations  to  each  other  in  our 
domestic  affairs,  and  our  duty  to  humanity  abroad,  the  confidence  in  each 
other  necessary  to  support  our  social  and  economic  relations,  and  finally, 
the  fabric  of  our  government  itself,  all  rest  on  religion. 

"Its  importance  cannot  be  stressed  too  often  or  emphasized  too  much." 

THE  VALUE  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

I  believe  that  I  can  say  without  fear  of  contradiction  that  we  as  a 
people  demonstrate  by  our  actions  that  our  religion  is  dearer  to  us  and 
of  more  actual  value  than  is  the  religion  of  any  other  people  in  the 
world  to  them.  Where  can  you  find  a  people,  2,000  persons  of  whom  are 
giving  their  time  and  their  attention  without  money  and  without  price, 
laboring  to  bring  others  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  ?  I  am  sure  that 
we  realize  the  force  of  the  statement  made  in  that  wonderful  and  re 
markable  revelation  given  to  David  Whitmer  and  Oliver  Cowdery: 


s 


GE Mi RA I  CONFERENCE 


"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  where- 
fore he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and  come 
unto  him. 

"And  he  hath  risen  again  from  the  dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men 
unto  him,  on  conditions  of  repentance. 

"And  how  great  is  his  joy  in  the  soul  that  repenteth! 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  repentance  unto  this  people. 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying  repentance 
unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me,  how  great  shall  be 
your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you 
should  bring  many  souls  unto  me!" 

We  are  bringing  many  souls  unto  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel.  I  re- 
joice beyond  all  the  power  which  God  has  given  me  to  express  my 
feelings,  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  every  land  and  in  every  clime, 
all  over  the  wide  world  wherever  the  Gospel  has  gone,  have  been 
blessed  with  a  testimony,  with  a  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  the 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  never  have  heard  and  never  expect 
to  hear  the  song,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,  to  Guide  Us 
in  These  Latter  Days,"  but  what  my  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  to 
God  for  choosing  that  wonderful  young  man,  Joseph  Smith,  to  restore 
to  the  earth  again  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  'Jesus  Christ,  the  plan  of  life 
and  salvation.  I  rejoice  that  the  missionaries!  who  have  been  going  out 
to  proclaim  this  Gospel  for  ninety-nine  long  years  have  gone  out  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  living  God,  that  they  have  declared  that  which  they 
knew  to  be  true;  and  that  in  every  nation  under  heaven  where  the 
Gospel  has  gone,  honest  men  and  honest  women,  in  answer  to.  their 
own  prayers  and  their  supplications  to  God,  have  been  blessed  with  the 
light  and  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel,  and  of  the  divinity  of  the  mission 
of  Joseph  Smith  the  prophet. 

May  God  bless  us  during  our  assembly  here  today,  and  inspire  all 
those  who  shall  speak  to  us,  is  my  humble  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

1  desire  first  to  express  the  sincere  gratitude  which  I  feel  that  I 
as  well  as  all  of  you  who  are  assembled  this  morning,  have  been  pre- 
served through  another  year.  That  we  are  privileged  to  assemble  here, 
as  it  is  our  custom  to  do,  to  commemorate  the  organization  of  the 
Church,  to  be  informed  regarding  its  development  and  growth  by  the 
teachings  of  the  Gospel  which  we  receive  in  these  general  gatherings  of 
the  Church.   It  is  for  this  purpose  that  we  meet  together. 

PROTECTION  FROM  STORM 

•It  is  a  stormy  day.  Looking  out  of  the  window  to  the  south  before 
getting  up  it  appeared  that  the  storm  had  developed  into  a  blizzard. 

We  thank  the  Lord  for  the  rain  and  snow.    We  thank  him  for 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS 


9 


clouds,  as  we  do  for  sunshine,  and  know  that  as  long  as  we  continue  to 
put  our  trust  in  him  he  will  watch  over  and  protect  us.  The  mantle 
which  is  drawn  about  us  through  the  influence  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ 
will  protect  us  from  the  storms  of  the  world,  just  as  this  comfortable 
building  does  this  morning  from  the  storms  which  are  raging  without. 

MISREPRESENTATION 

From  the  organization  of  the  Church  to  the  present  it  has  been  cus- 
tomary for  unbelievers  to  assail  the  Church  until  it  has  become  a  thing 
to  be  expected  by  us.  Abortive  efforts  have  been  made  to  explain 
the  reason  for  its  existence.  It  has  been  ridiculed,  it  has  been  criticised 
by  both  unlearned  and  learned  men.  It  has  been  referred  to  as  an  or- 
ganization not  Christian  in  its  character.  It  has  been  referred  to  as  an 
organization  which  perverts  the  doctrines  of  Christ  as  they  are  taught  in 
the  Bible.  In  fact,  it  would  appear  that  there  is  no  pretext  that  can 
be  thought  of  which  has  not  been  resorted  to  in  order  that  the  true 
origin  and  purpose  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
might  be  misrepresented  to  the  world.  And  it  is  strange,  almost  in- 
comprehensible, that  these  statements  which  have  been  made,  the  reason- 
ings which  have  been  offered,  have  been  accepted  as  true  by  intelligent, 
thoughtful  people. 

ONE  OF  THE  OBJECTIONS 

One  of  the  objections  commonly  raised  is  that  the  Latter-day  Saints 
accept  the  Book  of!  Mormon,  as  we  declare  in  our  Articles  of  Faith,  as 
coming  from  God.  This  book  has  been  referred  to  as  the  "Golden 
Bible."  It  has  been  referred  to  as  a  book  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
place  before  the  Holy  Scriptures  as  they  are  contained  in  the  Bible. 
It  is  now  nearly  one  hundred  years  since  the  book  was  published,  and 
I  do  not  know  of  a  single  argument,  of  a  single  theory,  that  has  been 
advanced  which  has  not  been  successfully  met.  I  desire  during  the  short 
time  at  my  disposal  to  refer  to  some  df  these  objections  and  call  your 
attention  to  certain  developments  which  have  come  under  my  observa- 
tion during  the  past  few  years  that  tend  to  establish  the  divine  au- 
thenticity of  the  book  and  the  things  which  it  teaches. 

I  am  going  to  read  first,  in  justification  of  the  statement  which  I 
have  just  made,  froim  a  book  that  I  now  hold  in  my  hand.  It  is  en- 
titled, "Sketches  of  Mexico,"  and  is  written  by  John  W.  Butler,  a 
man  whom  I  knew,  a  man  who  was  in  Mexico  during  my  early  expe- 
rience as  a  missionary  in  that  country.  This  is  what  he  says  in  re- 
viewing the  origin  of  the  Mexican  people : 

"The  theory  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  hardly  merits  mention.  The 
story  is  given  in  Bancroft's  Native  Races,  vol.  v,  and  covers  five  pages  (p. 
96,  et  seq.)  It  is  rather  romantic  and  reaches  from  the  Tower  of  Babel, 
soon  after  which  it  is  claimed  the  first  Mormons  came  to  this  continent,  down 
to  September  22,  1827,  when  Joseph  Smith  removed  the  buried  book  from 
the  'hill  Cumorah,  Ontario  County,  N.  Y.  The  whole  story  is  not  only  a 
prententious  fraud  but  also  a  blasphemous  perversion  of  Old  Testament 
history. 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"The  learned  John  Fiske  in  his  recent  valuable  work,  'The  Discovery  of 
America,'  (Boston,  1892),  well  says:  Tt  is  extremely  difficult  for  an  imposter 
to  concoct  a  narrative  without  making  blunders  that  can  easily  be  detected  by 
a  critical  scholar.  For  example,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  in  the  passage  cited, 
in  supremely  blissful  ignorance  introduces  oxen  and  sheep,  as  well  as  the 
knowledge  of  smelting  iron,  into  pre-Columbian  America.'  "  (Vol.  1,  p.  179.) 


HIS  OWN  ARGUMENT 


Undoubtedly  no  one  can  deny  John  Fiske's  intelligence.  No  one 
can  deny  his  good  citizenship.  No  one  can  deny  the  sincerity  of  what 
he  writes,  but  it  would  perhaps  be  not  entirely  inappropriate  for  me 
to  call  attention  to  his  own  argument : 

"It  is  extremely  difficult  for  an  imposter  to  concoct  a  narrative  without 
making  blunders  that  can  easily  be  detected  by  a  critical  scholar." 

,'It  is  equally  difficult  for  a  critic  to  reach  proper  conclusions  iiTdjs- 
cussing  a  subject  upon  which  he  is  not  well  informed. 

So  I  want  to  take  John  Fiske  for  just  a  few  moments  to  some  of  the 
recent  developments  which  touch  upon  the  very  things  that  he  refers 
to  and  treats  as  impossible. 

THE  USE  OF  STEEL 

I  hold  in  my  hand  a  story  taken  from  the  Tanuary  number  of 
"World's  Work"  a  year  ago.  It  is  written  by  A.  Hyatt  Verrill,  one  of 
the  foremost  of  our  archaeologists.  The  article  is  headed  "The  Pompeii 
of  Ancient  America,"  telling  of  a  vast  city  on  the  Isthmus  of  Panama 
which  was  destroyed  centuries  before  Christ.   He  says  : 

"We  believe  that  this  article  stands  unique  among  accounts  of  modern 
archaeological  discoveries.  It  is  the  story  of  an  American  city  which  flour- 
ished and  probably  was  destroyed  by  a  volcano  centuries  before  Pompeii 
existed.  We  are  finding  tnat  America  is  not  so  young  after  all  Moreover 
the  veteran  explorer  for  the  Museum  of  the  American  Indian,  who  dis- 
covered this  ancient  city  and  who  writes  this  article,  believes  that  he  has 
made  another  interesting  discovery— that  steel  implements  were  used  in 
America  centuries  ago-a  theory  whicli  was  scoffed  at  until  iron  was  found 
in  King  Tut-Ankh-Amon  s  tomb  in  Egypt,  dating  back  to  about  1350  B.  C." 

The  entire  article  is  exceedingly  interesting  to  a  student  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  It  is  elaborately  illustrated.  I  cannot  take  time 
to  read  the  many  thugs  which  have  a  direct  bearing  upon  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  but  I  ask  your  indulgence  while  I  read  the  following- 

V  errill  says  :  fe  " 

"I  am  thoroughly  convinced  that  these  people  as  well  as  manv  nth^r 
prehistoric  races,  possessed  iron  or  steel  tools,Pand  T  do  not  know  of  a  sinele 
argument  or  fact  to  disprove  this.  The  fact  that  no  i?on  or  steel  tools  have 
ever  been  found  proves  nothing.  Iron  is  the  most  perishable  of 'metals  and 
except  under  most  unusual  and  peculiar  conditions,  all  traces  o ?snTal  iron  or 
steel  tools  would  disappear  completely  in  a  few  centuries  H  h  ?T 
aeologists  will  scoff  at  this  theorv  anH  n™£  '  I  !l  es:.  No.  doub*  arch~ 
as  well  as  laymen  have  a  habit  of  scoffinT^tT  ,dea  but-,  scientist« 

forthcoming  to  place  them  in  the  wrong"  th6°ry  Untl1  pr°of  is 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IV INS 


11 


He  then  refers  to  the  discovery  of  steel  in  the  tomb  of  Tut-Ankh- 
Amon  and  continues: 

"Indeed,  less  than  two  years  ago  I  was  scoffed  at  for  suggesting  that  an 
entirely  new  and  unknown  culture  of  great  antiquity  had  existed  in  Panama, 
but  we  now  have  undeniable  proof/  of  the  fact.  Moreover,  at  a  depth  of  five 
and  one-half  feet  below  the  surface,  at  the  temple  site,  among  broken  pottery 
and  imbedded  in  charcoal,  I  found  a  steel  or  hardened  iron  implement.  The 
greater  portion  is  almost  completely  destroyed  by  corrosion,  but  the  chisel 
shaped  end  is  in  good  condition.  It  is  so  hard  that  it  is  scarcely  touched  by  a 
file  and  will  scratch  glass,  and  with  such  an  implement  it  would  be  a  simple 
matter  to  cut  and  carve  the  hardest  stone." 

He  then  proceeds  to  say  that  the  stone  work  which  he  has  uncovered 
there  could  not  have  been  accomplished  with  anything  but  a  hardened 
steel  implement. 

Thus,  one  of  the  objections  which  Mr.  Fiske  expresses  in  the 
book  from  which  I  have  just  read  is  disposed  of.  Joseph  Smith  had  no 
knowledge  of  this,  but  he  told  us  one  hundred  years  ago,  or  the  his- 
torian who  wrote  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  Joseph  Smith  translated, 
told  us  that  they  became  expert  in  the  manufacture  and  use  of  steel. 

ANIMALS  OF  ANCIENT  AMERICA 

Again,  the  objection  is  made  by  Mr.  Fiske  that  sheep  are  referred 
to  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  do  not  think  that  this  needs  particular 
attention.    The  llama  and  alpaca  of  South  America  are  of  this  species. 

Fiske  says  oxen  were  referred  to.  I  have  in  my  hand  a  circular  issued 
by  the  Los  Angeles  County  Museum  of  History,  Science  and  Art.  On 
page  27  of  the  book  is  a  picture  of  the  skeleton  of  an  ancient  ox,  mounted 
and  complete.  If  you  will  go  into  the  museum  at  Los  Angeles,  as  I 
have  done,  you  will  see  these  mounted  skeletons.  This  skeleton  is  said 
to  be  that  of  a  prehistoric  ox  the  remains  of  which  have  been  taken 
from  the  asphalt  beds  near  the  city,  associated  with  the  remains  of 
many  other  animals  which  once  existed  in  America,  and  are  now  extinct. 

On  page  twenty-six  of  the  same  book  is  the  picture  of  a  skeleton  of 
a  horse,  said  to  differ  slightly  from  our  present  horse,  but  fully  as  large 
taken  from  the  same  bed.  The  Book  of  Mormon  tells  us  that  there 
were  horses  and  oxen  here.  This  would  appear  to  dispose  of  that 
criticism  also. 

FINE  PEARLS 

Another,  thing  to  which  my  attention  has  been  called,  and  it  has 
been  very  interesting  to  me,  because  it  helps  us  in  the  conclusions  reached 
in  regard  to  several  important  matters  contained  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
is  the  following:  (We  are  now  dealing  with  a  period  nearly  three 
hundred  years  after  the  birth  of  Christ.)    The  writer  tells  us: 

"And  now,  in  this  two  hundred  and  first  year  there  began  to  be  among 
them  those  who  were  lifted  up  in  pride,  such  as  the  wearing  of  fine  pearls, 
and  of  the  fine  things  of  the  world." 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


lie  does  not  refer  to  diamonds,  nor  rubies,  nor  sapphires,  but  to 
pearls.  This  also  has  been  made  a  question  of  ridicule  by  critics  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  have 
in  my  hand  a  page  which  I  tore  from  the  "Courier-Journal"  of  Ohio  in 
1925.  'I  wish  you  could  all  have  it  and  read  it,  and  also  a  page  from 
the  "Literary  Digest."  I  can  only  read  the  headlines  because  time  will 
not  permit  me  to  refer  to  the  many  interesting  things  which  are  con- 
tained in  it.  But  this  is  what  the  headlines  tell  us :  "America's  Ancient 
Kings  and  Their  Bushels  of  Pearls— Skeletons  of  aj  prehistoric  family 
that  ruled  the  mysterious  people  who  built  the  mounds  near  Chillicothe, 
Ohio,  where  they  were  recently  discovered.  They  are  surrounded  by 
bushels  of  pearls  which  evidently  formed  their  burial  robes." — "Newest 
remarkable  discoveries  about  the  Prehistoric  People  who  built  the  huge 
earthen  mounds  and  buried  their  Kings  in  Robes  of  Precious  Stones." 

I  was  in  communication  at  this  time  with  a  friend  in  New  York, 
who  is  a  collector  of  Indian  relics,  and  probably  had  one  of  the  largest 
individual  collections  in  the  United  States.  He  was  well  acquainted 
with  the  archaelogist  who  uncovered  this  remarkable  burial  place. 
The  photographs  contained  in  the  article  the  headings  of  which  I  have 
just  read  show  the  form  in  which  the  skeletons  were  found  and  their 
surroundings.  The  article  says  that  the  fragment  of  clothing  which 
they  wore  was. shown  to  be  of  very  fine  quality.  But  more  than  all, 
this  friend  of  mine  said  he  had  some  of  these  pearls  in  his  possession 
which  had  been  sent  to  him,  and  they  were  very  fine,  ranging  in  size 
from  a  hickory  nut  to  a  pin  head,  all  of  which  had  been  pierced  and 
used  evidently  as  ornaments. 

WITHOUT  KNOWLEDGE  OF  THE  FUTURE 

This  may  be  considered  a  small  thing  by  some-  people,  but  to  me 
it  is  very  important,  because  one  hundred  years  ago  that  account  was 
written  into  this  record  without  knowledge  of  the  future,  without 
knowledge  of  these  developments  that  are  being  made  by  archaeologists 
at  the  present  time.  I  do  not  know  that  I  can  say  that  these  things 
tend  to  strengthen  our  faith  because  our  faith  appears  to  have  been 
definite  and  needs  little  strengthening,  but  it  is  a  source  of  great 
satisfaction  to  us  to  know  that  these  arguments  which  have  been  used, 
and  used  so  effectually  against  the  Book  of  Mormon,  are  gradually  being- 
displaced  by  the  actual  discoveries  which  are  being  made. 

THE  GOLDSMITH  ART 

The  Book  of  Mormon  is  referred  to  as  the  Golden  Bible  of  the  Mor- 
mons, because  of  the  fact  that  the  record  was  made  in  reformed  Egyp- 
tian characters  upon  plates  which  were  of  gold.  I  have  in  my  hand  a 
little  book  published  by  the  Heye  Foundation  of  the  American  Indian 
from  which  I  wish  to  read  a  paragraph  or  two.  This  book  is  written 
by  Saville,  one  of  our  foremost  students  of  archaeology.    It  i«  entitled 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


13 


"The  Goldsmith's  Art  in  Ancient  Mexico."  The  entire  volume  is  de- 
voted to  this  one  subject,  and  tells  us  of  the  expert  manner  in  which 
the  Mexican  Indians  handled  gold  at  the  time  of  the  cdnquests ;  that 
the  goldsmiths  of  old  Spain,  which  stood  at  the  head,  of  the  world  at 
that  time,  were  amazed,  and  that  they  employed  these  Indians  to  con- 
vert the  gold  which  was  accumulated  by  the  conquerors  of  Mexico 
into  ingots  that  could  be  carried  back  to  Spain. 

MILLIONS  IN  GOLD 

One  of  the  first  Spaniards  to  visit  the  coasts  of  the  mainland  was 
Juan  de  Grijalva.  He  left  Cuba,  coasted  along  Yucatan  and  Central 
America,  and  then  returned  to  his  starting  point.  He  brought  with 
him  more  than  one  hundred  samples,  which  I  have  copied  from  this 
book,  of  ornaments  made  from  gold.  This  excited  the  cupidity  of  the 
Spaniards,  and  other  expeditions  were  immediately  sent  out  for  further 
investigation.  One  single  article,  it  could  not  have  been  used  as  an 
ornament,  undoubtedly  having  some  religious  signification,  said  to  have 
been  as  large  as  a  cart  wheel,  was  brought  out.  It  had  a  weight  value 
in  gold  of  thirty  thousand  dollars.  Among  the  things  which  he  brought 
were  very  beautiful  representations  of  animals,  of  birds,  of  men,  and 
other  ^things.  Prescott  declared  that  there  was  collected  by  Cortez  and 
those  who  were  with  him,  six  million  three  hundred  thousand  dollars 
worth  of  gold,  the  greater  part  of'  which  was  not  used  as  a  circulating 
medium,  but  for  the  adornment  of  the  person,  the  representation  of 
various  forms  of  life,  and  the  religious  ideals  of  the  people. 

Among  other  things  Montezuma  had  in  his  palace  in  Mexico  City, 
a  room  wherein  was  represented  every  known  bird  and  animal  which 
could  not  be  kept  alive  in  the  gardens  just  outside,  made  from  gold,  and 
said  to  have  been  so  nearly  perfect  that  it  amazed  these  Spanish  ad- 
venturers. 

PLATES  OF  GOLD 

That  is  not  the  particular  thing  to  which  I  desire  to  call  your  at- 
tention. Mr.  Saville  has  taken  the  contents  of  his  book  from  the  old 
inventories  that  are  still  available,  reports  which  were  made  to  the 
kings  to  whom  one-fifth  of  all  the  booty  which  fell  into  the  hands  of 
the  conquerors  was  sent.  The  amount  not  recorded  he  says  no  one 
can  guess.  Six  million  dollars  would  be  but  a  bagatelle  compared  with 
what  we  believe  was  carried  away  by  the  conquistadors. 

This  is  the  thing  which  particularly  interested  me,  and  to  which  my 
attention  was  called  by  Professor  Levi  Edgar  Young.  The  book  that 
I  hold  in  my  hand  is  his  property.    I  read  from  it  as  follows : 

_  "Padre  Gay  mentions  that  the  Mixtecan  Indians  'sold  to  some  European 
antiquarians,  very  thin  plates  of  gold,  evidently  worked  with  the  hammer 
which  their  ancestors  had  been  able  to  preserve,  and  on  which  were  en- 
graved ancient  hieroglyphics.'  " 

That  is  very  significant  to  us,  when  considered  in  connection  with 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  declaration  that  the  record  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated  was  written  upon  plates  of  gold. 

A  few  days  ago  I  received  a  letter  from  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe  who 
at  present  presides  over  the  European  mission.  Among  other  things 
he  says : 

"Last  fall  as  I  was  leaving  London  I  spent  an  hour  in  the  British 
museum  almost  at  random.  I  entered  the  large  room  devoted  to  oriental 
manuscripts.  I  noticed  at  once  in  the  first  case  to  the  right  a  series  of  very 
line  silver  plates,  perhaps  three  inches  wide  and  eight  inches  long,  held  to- 
gether by  a  silver  ring.  The  plates  were  beautifully  engraved  with  char- 
acters which  the  legend  said  gave  Buddha's  first  sermon.  In  the  next  case 
was  a  sheet  of  extremely  thin  gold  likewise  engraved  on  both  sides,  which 
according  to  the  legend  was  a  letter  from  one  ruler  to  another." 

I  thought  again,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  very  sig- 
nificant. It  settles  without  controversy  the  fact  that  gold  was  used 
anciently  for  plates  upon  which  records  were  kept.  It  illustrates  clearly 
that  sheets  of  metal  used  for  that  purpose  were  held  together  by  rings, 
just  as  the  prophet  tells  us  the  plates  containing  the  Book  of  Mormon 
were  held  together. 

NOT  UNREASONABLE 

« 

How  reasonable  this  is  when  you  think  of  it.  We  know  that  gold 
is  one  of  the  most  ductile,  one  of  the  moist  enduring  of  metals.  We 
know  that  it  does  not  tarnish.  You  may  throw  it  into  a  river  of  muddy 
water ;  you  may  bury  it  in  the  earth.  Go  where  you  will  today  and 
wash  from  the  gravel  its  grains  as  >I  have  done,  you  will  find  that  they 
are  always  bright.  They  retain  their  color.  They  are  recognized  at 
once.  It  is  one  of  the  softest  of  metals,  not  as  soft  as  lead,  but  nearly 
so,  and  consequently  would  be  a  convenient  metal  upon  which  to  keep  a 
record.  And  if  that  record  were  especially  valuable  and  sacred  to  the 
people  how  reasonable  it  would  be  that  they  should  keep  it  upon  plates 
of  gold. 

FAMILIARITY  WITH  THE  BOOK  REQUIRED 

But  I  must  not  continue.  I  call  your  attention  to  these  facts  be- 
lieving that  they  will  be  interesting  to  you.  I  appeal  to  all  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  to  become  familiar  with  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
would  that  all  people,  whether  they  be  members  of  the  Church  or  not, 
would  familiarize  themselves  with  that  work.  Not  through  rumors  that 
have  been  circulated  in  regard  to  it,  not  from  such  statements  as  are 
made  by  Fiske,  which  I  have  read  to  you— an  honest  man  without  doubt, 
but  misled  because  of  what  others  had  said,  not  familiar  with  the  book 
itself.  I  would  like  to  apply  that  same  warning  that  he  applies,  to  myself 
and  to  others,  that  we  must  be  careful  lest  we,  by  writing  on  subjects 
that  we  do  not  understand,  make  the  same  mistake  that  he  has  made. 

"It  is  extremely  difficult  for  an  imposter  to  concoct  a  narrative  without 
making  blunders." 


PRESIDENT  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 


15 


Nothing  more  true  than  that  was  ever  said.  I  paraphrase  that  state- 
ment by  saying,  it  is  extremely  difficult  for  a  critic  to  criticise  that  with 
which  he  is  not  familiar  without  making  blunders. 

Blunders  have  been  made  from  the  time  of  the  publication  of  the 
book  until  the  present,  beginning  with  the  old  Spaulding  Manuscript 
story,  in  the  abortive  attempts  which  have  been  made  to  account  for  the 
existence  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  the  organization  of  the  Church, 
and  it  is  still  being  done  by  men  who  reside  in  our  own  communities, 
men  who  have  the  facilities  at  their  command  by  which  they  may  know 
the  truth. 

THE  TEACHINGS  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

The  Book  of  Mormon  does  not  replace  the  Bible.  We  believe  the 
Bible  to  be  the  word  of  God  insofar  as  it  is  correctly  translated.  I 
could  preach  a  sermon  upon  that  subject  and  satisfy  any  reasonable 
man  that  it  is  the  only  correct  statement  that  could  be  made.  We  also 
believe  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God.  It  is  a  Christian 
book.  The  title  page  itself  appeals  to  people  to  come  unto  Christ — 'Jew, 
Gentile,  bond  and  free — that  salvation  may  be  obtained  through  him. 
The  last  chapter  in  the  book  makes  the  same  appeal.  You  can  scarcely 
open  a  page  that  does  not  bear  witness  to  the  fact  that  Christ  is  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Son  of  God,  our  Savior,  our  Elder  Brother, 
our  Advocate  with  the  Father.  He  stands  between  us  and  the  Father 
to  plead  our  cause.  Every  message  that  comes  to  us  from  the  Fathei 
comes  through  the  Son.  He  came  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father.  He  came 
to  show  us  the  personality  of  the  Father,  for  he  said  he  was  in  the 
exact  image  of  his  person. 

So  I  say  one  by  one  criticisms  which  have  been  made  regarding  the 
Book  of  Mormon  are  falling  by  the  way  through  the  investigation  of 
scientists  who  understand  their  business.  I  thank  the  Lord  for  them  and 
that  which  they  are  undertaking  to  do.  I  have  never  had  any  fear 
that  a  thing  would  be  discovered  to  disprove  the  truths  contained  in 
this  book. 

We  must  be  careful  in  the  conclusions  that  we  reach.  The  Book 
of  Mormon  teaches  the  history  of  three  distinct  peoples,  or  two  peoples 
and  three  different  colonies  of  people,  who  came  from  the  old  world 
to  this  continent.  It  does  not  tell  us  that  there  was  no  one  here  before 
them.  It  does  not  tell  us  that  people  did  not  come  after.  And  so  if 
discoveries  are  made  which  suggest  differences  in  race  origins,  it  can  very 
easily  be  accounted  for,  and  reasonably,  for  we  do  believe  that  other 
people  came  to  this  continent.  A  thousand  years  had  elapsed  from  the 
time  the  Book  of  Mormon  closed  until  the  discovery  of  America,  and 
we  know  that  other  people  came  to  America  during  that  period. 

NO  DEFINITE  SOLUTION 

There  is  a  great  deal  of  talk  about  the  geography  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon.    Where  was  the  land  of  Zarahemla?    Where  was  the 


If. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


City  of  Zarahemla?  and  other  geographic  matters.  It  does  not  make 
any  difference  to  us.  There  has  never  been  anything  yet  set  forth 
thai  definitely  settles  that  question.  So  the  Church  says  we  are  just, 
wailing  until  we  discover  the  truth.  All  kinds  of  theories  have  been 
advanced.  1  have  talked  with  at  least  half  a  dozen  men  that  have 
found  the  very  place  where  the  City  of  Zarahemla  stood,  and  not- 
withstanding the  fact  that  they  profess  to  be  Book  of  Mormon  students, 
they  vary  a  thousand  miles  apart  in  the  places  they  have  located.  We 
do  not  offer  any  definite  solution.  As  you  study  the  Book  of  Mormon 
keep  these  things  in  mind  and  do  not  make  definite  statements  concerning 
things  that  have  not  been  proven  in  advance  to  be  true. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  keep  us  all  in  the  faith, 
and  make  it  possible  for  us  to  withstand  the  assaults  of  the  world," 
for  they  are  coming  just  as  they  have  come.  They  will  come  with 
greater  force.  Lucifer  is  not  dead.  He  is  opposed  to  Christ,  our 
Lord.  He  has  been  opposed  to  him  and  fought  him  for  the  dominion 
of  this  earth  since  he  was  cast  down  to  it,  and  the  battle  is  not  yet 
won.  It  will  become  fiercer  and  fiercer,  but  there  is  no  doubt  in  regard 
to  the  ultimate  termination.  Christ  will  prevail.  He  will  rule  over  this 
earth,  the  right  of  which  he  won  by  the  shedding  of  his  blood,  and 
redemption  will  come  to  his  covenant  people.  Every  word  spoken 
by  the  prophets  inspired  of  God,  as  it  applies  to  this  land,  to  this 
people,  and  to  this  great  dispensation,  the  greatest  of  all  time,  will  be 
fulfilled.    I  bear  witness  of  it,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

One  great  difficulty  that  we  have  always  had  in  our  conferences  is 
to  find  sufficient  time  to  hear  from  all  whom  we  would  Hke  to  have 
speak  here.  We  will  ask  some  of  our  missions  presidents  to  speak  briefly 
this  morning,  and  ask  that  they  occupy  not  to  exceed  ten  minutes. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

I  sincerely  trust  that  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  may  lead  my  thoughts 
at  this  time. 

The  principles  of  the  Gospel  as  taught  by  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  appeal  to  me ;  they  are  in  strict  accord  with  the  holy  scriptures ; 
they  are  conclusive  evidence  to  me  that  this  Church  is  in  harmony  with 
that  established  by  our  Lord  and  Master  in  the  meridian  of  time  In 
my  experience  I  have  not  found  any  man  or  set  of  men  who  have 
successfully  assailed  any  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  revealed  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  a  century  ago.  During  that  period  of  time  the 
Church  has  taught  many  glorious  truths— among  others,  that  our  Eter- 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BEN N ION 


17 


nal  Father  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones ;  that  men  lived  before  they 
came  into  this  world,  in  an  ante-mortal  state,  where  they  developed 
under  the  inspiration  and  power  of  God,  and  where  prophets  were 
chosen  and  ordained.  No  sect  or  party  of  men  has  been  able  to  prove 
these  doctrines  untrue. 

On  the  other  hand,  I  have  listened  hundreds  of  times  to  young  men 
from  the  stakes  of  Zion,  who  have  come  into  the  world  to  preach  the 
Gospel,  proclaiming  the  same  doctrines  which  were  taught  by  the  early 
elders  of  the  Church.  These  young  men  have  never  heard  these  early 
sermons,  they  have  never  had  an  opportunity  to  read  them,  but  they 
have  taught  the  same  principles  and  delivered  almost  verbatim  the  same 
sermons  by  the  same  power.  This  fact  bears  testimony  to  me  that  the 
Divine  Teacher  who  taught  the  elders  of  this  Church  in  the  beginning 
is  in  the  earth  today  teaching  the  children  of  men  through  the  priest- 
hood of  the  Son  of  God. 

The  power  of  i  the  Holy  Ghost  is  in  the  earth ;  God  our  Eternal 
Father  rules  and  reigns ;  he  governs  and  controls  the  destinies  of  men 
according  to  their  obedience  to  his  laws.  The  Savior  of  the  world  is 
guarding  the  interests  of  his  Church  and  it  shall  stand  in  the  earth  to  be 
here  when  he  shall  come  in  his  own  due  time. 

Men  and  women  by  the  score  Have  been  gathered  out  from  among 
the  congregations  of  the  earth  and  have  borne  testimony  through  the 
inspiration  and  power  that  God  gives  to  baptized  believers,  that  this 
work  is  true.  Hundreds  and  thousands  of  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon have  been  printed  and  distributed  by  our  missionaries,  and  men  and 
women  have  come  into  the  Church  through  the  divine  testimony  taught 
within  the  pages  of  that  holy  record,  which  record  is  a  history  of  the 
hand-dealings  of  God  with  the  children  of  men  who  lived  on  this  Amer- 
ican continent.    Tt  has  been  assailed  again  and  again  but  unsuccessfully. 

I  glory  in  the  work  of  God.  There  is  nothing  in  the  world  that  is 
of  more  interest  than  the  teachings  of  the  Gospel ;  nothing  that  will 
make  men  and  women  happier  and  bring  them  closer  to  our  Father. 

I  am  glad  to  be  able  to  report  to  you  the  success  of  our  mission,  the 
Central  States  mission.  The  elders  there  and  the  sisters  are  happy  in 
their  work,  and  they  are  developing  the  testimony  that  came  into  the 
world  with  them,  that  will  make  them  a  power  in  this  world.  They 
will  be  the  means  of  bringing  many  others  into  the  Church.  It  is  the 
work  of  God.  I  thank  our  Eternal  Father  for  the  light  that  he  has 
given  me,  for  the  testimony  that  he  has  given  me,  for  the  privilege 
I  have  had  of  learning  and  teaching  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  to 
men  and  women  in  the  earth  and  of  being  associated  with  holy  men 
of  God  who  bear  his  priesthood,  his  power  and  his  authority,  as  leaders 
and  prophets  in  the  dispensation  of  time  in  which  we  live.  Tt  has  been 
my  salvation. 

I  pray  God  that  he  may  continue  to  give  light  and  truth  to  his 
children,  that  we  may  obey  the  inspiration  that  comes  to  us  and  glorify 
his  name  to  the  end ;  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

It  is  my  prayer  that  I  may  be  able  to  occupy  the  short  time 
allotted,  in  saying  something  that  will  be  appropriate  and  profitable. 
It  will  be  fifty  years  next  July  since,  as  a  young  boy,  I  went  on  a  mission 
to  the  Southern  States.  I  was  reminded,  by  what  President  Grant  read 
from  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  of  the  joy  that  comes  into 
one's  life  with  the  knowledge  that  he  has  been  the  means  of  bringing 
one  honest  soul  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  That  truth  and  promise 
has  come  more  forcibly  to  my  mind  than  ever  before  while  on  my 
present  mission.  I  have  been  reminded  of  the  good  souls  to  whom  I 
carried  the  gospel  message  in  my  youth,  and  who  went  down  with  me 
into  the  waters  of  baptism;  whose  families  are  today  splendid,  honored 
Latter-day  Sairits,  surrounded  with  greater  comfort,  With  greater 
blessings  than  they  would  have  possibly  enjoyed  where  I  found  them. 

The  Eastern  States  mission  is  in  excellent  condition.  A  wonder- 
ful work  is  being  done.  Although  the  people  generally  are  not  so  much 
interested  in  religion,  yet  there  are  many  honest  souls  who  may  be 
reached,  and  wonderful  possibilities  exist  in  that  mission. 

There  is  one  thing  in  particular  to  which  I  desire  to  call  the  atten- 
tion of  the  presiding  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  a  condition  which  I 
would  have  the  mothers  and  fathers  and  the  bishops  of  wards  consider, 
though  it  may  not  be  my  prerogative  to  call  attention  to  it  particularly. 
That  is  the  fact  that  in  the  Eastern  States  mission  there  are  nine  of 
the  greatest  educational  institutions  of  America,  great  universities  and 
almost  innumerable  colleges,  and  smaller  universities,  to  which  the  young 
people  from  Utah  and  surrounding  states,  are  going  to  obtain  an 
education.  I  find  that  few  if  any  of  these  young  people  carry  with  them 
transfers  of  their  membership  in  the  Church  to  the  branches  where  they 
attend  school.  There  may  be  some,  but  I  do  not  know  of  any  who  do. 
What  is  the  result?  In  each  of  the  great  university  towns,  excepting 
Cornell  and  Princeton,  there  are  organized  branches  of  the  Church  with 
splendid  men  and  women  carrying  on  a  great  work.  These  young 
people  are  not  only  needed  there,  but  they  need  the  assistance  and  the 
contact  with  these  organizations.  'I  find  that  many  of  them  never  attend 
any  branch  meetings  or  participate  in  any  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 
As  a  rule  the  meetings  are  held  in  humble  places,  ill-favored  physically, 
but  blessed  spiritually.  These  young  people  go  to  school  and  they  say : 
"Well  I  am  here  for  a  few  years,  and  I  want  to  devote  myself  solely 
to_  my  studies."  Then  I  find  again  others,  a  few,  who  have  contact 
with  these  branches  of  the  Church,  who  associate  with  the  elders,  the 
missionaries  and  branch  officers;  and  what  is  the  result?  They  are 
cultivating  and  developing  spirituality  as  well  as  intellectuality.  Some  of 
these  young  people  will  come  home  better  Latter-dayi  Saints  than  when 
they  left  their  parents.  T  cannot  help  but  refer  to  one  as;  an  illustrious 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


19 


example.  He  came  from  the  Eleventh  Ward  of  this  city,  young  Df. 
Leroy  Alvin  Wirthlin,  a  graduate  of  Harvard  University,  who  is  doing 
interne  work  in  Boston.  He  actively  associated  himself  with  the  mis- 
sionaries and  members  of  the  Boston  branch,  and  has  done  everything 
in  his  power,  while  at  school,  to  promote  the  work  of  the  Lord.  He 
has  some  additional  or  post  graduate  work  to  do,  which  only  occupies  a 
portion  of  his  time ;  the  balance  of  his  time  is  spent  in  active  missionary 
work.  What  is  the  result  today  ?  Without  being  called  upon  a  mission, 
he  is  taking  the  place  of  a  missionary,  working  with  a  missionary,  de- 
voting very  largely  all  his  spare  time  (and  they  all  have  spare  time),  dur- 
ing the  few  months  that  it  is  necessary  for  him  to  remain  there.  All  the 
missionaries  point  to  him  as  an  illustration  of  what  can  be  accomplished. 
He  is  using  his  exceptional  qualities  and  efficiency  in  assisting  in  this 
great  work  of  saving  souls.  He  thoroughly  enjoys  the  thrill  that  he  re- 
ceives from  his  contact  with  the  missionaries  and  from  the  good  he 
accomplishes. 

'I  am  reminded  of  the  statement  made  to  me  by  Presiding  Bishop 
Cannon,  that  there  will  be  an  effort  made  to  have  bishops  transfer  the 
membership  of  our  people,  not  only  students,  but  all  of  our  members 
who  go  east  for  employment  or  education  or  other  purposes,  when  they 
are  to  remain  away  a  year  or  more.  By  thus  transferring  their  member- 
ship to  our  branches  we  have  an  opportunity  of  knowing  these  people.  I 
found  that  the  president  of  the  Massachusetts  district  and  the  president 
of  the  branch  of  the  Church  there,  did  not  even  know  young  men  who 
came  from  the  very  best  of  Latter-day  Saint  families  here,  who  had 
been  in  Harvard  for  a  year  or  two.  They  did  not  know  they  were 
there.  What  is  the  result?  They  associate  themselves  with  stu- 
dents and  friends  who  are  not  of  our  faith.  They  live  in  an  atmosphere 
foreign  to  the  Gospel.  They  breathe  that  atmosphere  and  it  gradually 
becomes  a  part  of  them.  We  must  work  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesu9  Christ, 
if  we  are  to  progress  and  hold  fast  to  the  faith.  If  we  stop  using  any 
of  our  limbs,  what  is  the  result?  My  arm,  if  unused  long  enough, 
would  not  perform  its  normal  functions.  It  would  wither  and  become 
useless.  Just  as  we  would  lose  the  use  of  our  limbs  by  non-use  just 
so  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  who  cease  to  act  as  such,  or  to  have  contact 
with  those  who  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel.  It  matters  not  how  well 
favored  they  may  have  been,  if  they  cease  to  have  contact  with  Latter- 
day  Saints,  if  they  cease  to  perform  the  duties  that  they  can  perform, 
and  separate  themselves  from  the  Church  and  its  associations,  they  lose 
the  faith ;  and  many  of  our  young  people,  I  find,  in  the  East,  have 
apparently  lost  their  faith.  One  young  man  to  whom  I  spoke  recently, 
the  vice-president  of  one  of  the  large  corporations  of  the  East,  who  has 
been  there  a  number  of  years,  never  attends  Church.  His  wife  is 
the  daughter  of  a  bishop  in  the  Church,  his  grandfather  was  one  of 
the  pioneers  of  forty-seven.  I  asked  him  why  he  did  not  attend. 
"Well,"  he  said,  "I  am  so  busy."  That  I  find  to  be  the  statement  gen- 
erally. I  said,  "Has  the  faith  of  your  father  and  mother  faded  out  com- 
pletely?" He  said,  "I  can't  say  that."  His  mother  is  a  splendid  worker 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  Relief  Society.  Then  I  said  to  him :  "Can  we  not  induce  you  to 
come  here  and  lend  the  strength  of  your  personality,  your  reputation 
and  standing,  to  help  this  little  branch  of  the  Church?"  Think  of 
what  he  could  accomplish  by  spending  a  few  hours  with  the  saints  on 
Sunday.  Just  before  I  left  New  York  I  was  informed  that  there  were 
fifteen  doctors  from  Utah— and  1  suppose  that  means  Idaho  and  these 
surrounding  states — Latter-day  Saints,  practicing  their  profession  in 
New  York  and  its  environs,  fifteen  of  them,  most  of  whom  pay  very 
little  attention  to  Church  work.  We  have  many  members  in  those  great 
business  and  educational  centers  in  almost  every  vocation  in  life.  The 
great  commercial,  industrial  and  manufacturing  industries  of  the  East 
employ  many  of  our  people.  Some  of  them  are  prominent  professors 
and  instructors  in  the  great  educational  institutions.  Some  are  in 
leading  law  offices.  There  is  a  migration  which  I  think  has  been  over- 
looked, from  the  West  to  the  East.  A  comparative  few  of  our  people 
who  have  been  reared  here  and  who  have  been  East  long,  are  active 
in  the  Church.  All,  including  our  merchants,  business  men,  and  our 
young  people  who  go  East  for  various  purposes,  know  of  the  oppor- 
tunities for  entertainment  and  amusement ;  they  all  find  ample  and 
abundant  time  for  amusement.  Too  often  they  feel  that  they  must  in 
that  time  miss  nothing,  even  the  vicious  and  degenerating,  and  they  for- 
get and  ignore  that  which  is  more  vital  and  important,  the  Spirit  of  God. 
They  go  there  feeling  that  they  are  relieved  from  restraint.  They  go 
there  frequently  not  intending  to  stay,  but  they  find  employment  and 
hundreds  of  them  are  there.  More  of  them  are  there  whose  names  are 
not  upon  the  records  of  the  Church  than  those  who  have  their  names 
upon  the  records.  I  importune  the  fathers  and  mothers  and  the  bishops 
of  the  Church  to  see  that  these  Church  members  have  their  records 
transferred,  that  we  may  be  able  to  work  with  them.  They  can  be  trans- 
ferred back  when  they  come  home.  I  will  be  glad  to  have  parents 
correspond  with  me  and  cooperate  with  them.  The  General  Electric 
Company  has  quite  a  number  of  our  young  men  employed  as  engineers. 
For  example,  I  think  there  are  six  of  such  at  Schenectady,  occupying 
responsible  positions.  Some  of  them  are  faithful  Latter-day  Saints. 
In  Philadelphia,  we  have  a  great  many  doctors  as  well  as  others. 
Hundreds  are  in  Washington.  All  these  young  people  need  the  watch- 
ful care  of  parents  and  they  need  to  be  kept  in  contact  with  the  Church, 
so  that  they  will  not  drift  away.  Many  of  the  choicest  blood  of  Israel 
are  drifting  away  through  lack  of  contact  with  the  Church.  It  is  due, 
to  some  extent,  to  the  fact  that  their  parents  are  not  sufficiently  interested 
or  advised. 

_  Then  we  have  another  interesting  situation.  The  German  and 
Swiss  saints,  many  of  whom  are  hastening  their  departure  from  Europe 
because  of  changes  soon  to  take  effect  in  the  immigration  law,  and 
finding  it  much  easier  and  cheaper  to  stop  in  New  York,  are  locating 
there.  They  think  there  are  better  opportunities  for  employment  there 
also.  They  are  coming  every  month.  We  anticipate  something  like  two 
hundred  will  be  coming  within  the  next  two  months.    We  have  several 


ELDER  JAMES  H.  MOYLE 


21 


hundred  of  these  saints  in  the  Brooklyn  branch.  There  are  a  goodly 
number  of  them  in  the  Manhattan  branch  and  also  in  Union  City. 
All  these  things  present  a  problem  that  is  worthy  of  serious  thought. 

I  would  like  to  make  an  appeal  to  prominent  men  and  women  of  the 
Church  who  go  to  New  York,  that  in  place  of  spending  all  their  time 
seeking  amusement,  they  go  to  the  branch  meetings  of  the  Church  and 
lend  the  strength  of  their  personality  and  their  presence  to  help  us 
build  up  the  work  of  the  Master,  in  which  we  are  engaged.  While  we 
do  not  have  sufficient  numbers  for  a  stake  of  Zion  there  now,  we  have 
the  intelligence,  the  personality  and  an  abundance  of  it,  and  I  believe 
it  will  be  but  a  short  time  before  we  will  be  ready  to  organize  a  stake 
in  this  greatest  of  all  commercial  centers  of  the  world ;  the  unquestioned 
metropolis  of  the  world,  where  we  should  have  more  adequate  facilities 
for  carrying  on  this  great  work.  Nevertheless  it  is  progressing,  and 
nothing  can  stay  it. 

I  believe  I  have  occupied  my  time ;  but  there  is  one  thing  to 
which  I  will  refer ;  that  is  in  connection  with  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
It  has  been  to  me  a  source  of  interesting  study  throughout  my  life.  For 
many  years  I  have  been  a  member  of  the  American  Anthropological 
Society  and  the  Archaeological  Society,  chiefly  because  of  my  interest 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  During  the  war,  it  was  my  privilege  to  become 
very  well  acquainted  and  frequently  to  have  luncheon  with  Doctor 
Spinden  of  the  Peabody  Museum  of  Boston,  a  professor  of  Archaeology 
in  Harvard,  and  also  Mr.  Morley,  the  leading  archaeologist  of  America, 
in  making  explorations  in  Central  America.  The  latter  has  been  fi- 
nanced for  about  twenty  years  by  the  Carnegie  Institute  of  Wash- 
ington ;  has  spent  as  much  as  ten  years  in  excavating  the  ruins 
of  Copan.  He  has  written  voluminously.  He  has  written  one  book  of 
about  a  thousand  pages  on  the  explorations  of  that  ancient  but  hidden 
city  of  Copan.  Doctor  Spinden,  the  leading  authority  on  the  subject, 
in  the  presence  of  Mr.  Morley  and  myself,  declared  that  he  has  made  a 
special  study  of  the  manufacturing  of  cloth  in  ancient  America,  and  he 
said  that  without  question  the  ancient  Peruvians  had  attained  a  higher 
degree  of  perfection  in  the  manufacture  of  cloth  than  any  other  nation 
of  their  time.  Dr.  Morley  seemed  to  concur  in  the  fact.  Sot  perfect 
and  complete  had  it  been  developed  that  nothing  since  has  exceeded 
the  skill  and  fineness  that  they  demonstrated.  If  you  will  read  in  last 
month's  "Art  and  Archaeology,"  the  leading  archaeological  journal  of 
the  United  States,  on  the  front  page,  in  the  first  paragraph,  the  leading 
article  of  that  journal,  you  will  find  that  it  states  that  the  cultural 
development  of  the  aboriginal  inhabitants  in  Central  America,  prior  to 
Columbus,  was  equal  to  that  of  any  nation  of  their  time;  that  Babylon 
and  Egypt  did  not  exceed  the  culture  that  has  been  discovered  in  the 
ancient  ruins  of  this  continent.  That  culture  and  advancement  did  not 
exist  in  the  days  of  Columbus.  It  was  found  in  the  ruins  they  left. 
Only  the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  the  whole  story. 

It  was  presented  to  the  world,  before  explorations  of  ancient  cities 
of  America  had  been  made,  when  little  or  nothing  had  been  written 


21 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


about  the  subject  in  English,  by  a  boy  twenty-four  years  of  age, 
whose  life  had  been  spent  on  the  frontier,  a  mere  backwoodsman,  un- 
educated, always  existing  in  and  surrounded  by  poverty  and  adversity, 
having  no  contact  with  educated  men  or  libraries.  Its  pages  reveal  to  the 
world  a  detailed  history  of  many  nations,  various  peoples,  great  wars, 
the  lives  of  good  and  great  men,  as  well  as  wicked  ones,  the  birth 
and  growth  of  governments,  nations,  religions  and  civilizations.  It 
presents  the  Gospel  in  its  fulness  and  contains  glorious  teachings  and 
prophetic  predictions  which  are  being  fulfilled.  Contrast  that  achieve- 
ment with  the  results  of  the  life  work  of  the  greatest  scientific  archaeo- 
logical American  explorer  of  our  time,  backed  by  Carnegie  millions, 
who  can  only  tell  a  small  part  of  what  happened  in  a  few  cities  of  a 
small  section  of  Central  America.  The  contrast  is  so  striking  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  can  only  be  admired  because  a  hundred  years  of  fierce 
opposition  and  effort  at  exposure  have  not  affected  it.  And  now  it  is 
read  by  the  thousands,  where  it  was  only  read  by  the  hundreds  a  few 
years  ago.  Has  not  the  Lord  indeed  taken  the  weak  things  of  the 
world  to  confound  the  wisdom  of  the  great  and  the  wise? 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  thrill  of  being  a  servant  of  God, 
carrying  his  message  to  the  world,  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel,  has 
stirred  my  soul.  My  whole  heart  is  in  this  work,  and  while  my 
physical  comfort  is  not  what  it  was  at  home,  while  my  physical  sur- 
roundings are  not  so  comfortable,  I  do  bear  testimony  to  the  fact 
that  I  never  enjoyed  myself  more  than  when  I  suffered  privation  and 
even  hunger  as  well  as  the  brutal  treatment  of  mobs,  while  on  a  mission 
in  the  Southern  States  in  the  days  of  my  early  youth.  I  was  in  the 
adjoining  state  to  the  one  where  the  martyred  James  Standing  suffered 
death,  and  where  President  Clawson  was  condemned  to  death  by  a 
ruthless  mob,  but  was  miraculously  saved.  I  went  through  the  expe- 
riences of  that  time  and  never  enjoyed  myself  more,  notwithstanding 
the  hardships,  for  we  traveled  almost  entirely  on  foot  and  without 
purse  or  scrip.  To  the  stranger  it  would  appear  impossible,  but  the 
joy  that  came  to  me  at  that  time  has  come  back  to  me  in  this  mission. 
It  is  priceless,  and  I  am  trying  to  duly  sense  the  responsibility.  I 
believe,  and  I  expect  as  firmly  as  I  know  that  £  am  here,  that  the 
joy  and  the  pleasure  of  my  contact  with  those  splendid  young  people 
with  whom  I  am  laboring,  will  be  such  that  the  blessings  of  God  will 
flow  from  it  and  will  last  throughout  my  remaining  days,  as  a  com- 
pensation and  a  joy  that  nothing  else  can  give.  That  I  may  be  the 
means  of  accomplishing  some  more  good  in  the  mission  field  and 
enjoy  the  blessing  promised  in  the  revelation  read  by  President  Grant 
is  the  greatest  desire  of  my  heart,  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


23 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

The  President  of  the  Church,  in  his  address  this  morning,  declared 
that  the  missionaries  went  forth  preaching  that  which  they  knew  to 
be  true.  I  testify  to  the  truth  of  this  statement.  The  Lord  says  in  a 
revelation  contained  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  that  the  power  is  in 
them,  referring  to  the  men  who  should  preach  his  glorious  word.  When 
the  father  of  John  Wesley  was  dying,  he  said  to  his  famous  son:  "It  is 
the  inward  witness,  John,  that  sustains  us  in  the  knowledge  of  God." 
This  Gospel  is  being  preached  in  the  power  and  demonstration  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.  The  richest  heritage  that  young  people  can  possess  in 
going  into  the  world  is  to  have  the  Holy  Spirit  as  their  abiding!  com- 
panion. 

A  young  man,  living  near  Salt  Lake  City,  left  for  a  mission  in 
the  Southern  States  a  few  years  ago.  Before  he  left  he  said  to 
his  mother:  "If  I  do  not  receive  a  testimony  before  I  have  been  in 
the  mission  one  month,  I  am  going  to  return  home."  The  mother 
sweetly  answered :  "My  son,  you  have  a  testimony.  My  prayers  will 
ascend  unto  God  that  you  will  be  made  conscious  of  that  testimony 
before  you  have  been  in  the  mission  field  a  month."  The  young  man 
was  put  to  labor  in  the  Georgia  conference.  Three  weeks  after  he 
arrived  there,  he  and  his  companion  were  chased  by  a  mob  of  angry 
men.  The  elders  discarded  their  mission  grips.  They  found  that  their 
coats  impeded  their  flight,  and  they  threw  them  aside;  but  when  they 
had  outdistanced  their  pursuers  this  young  man  who  had  told  his  mother 
he  would  return  home  within  a  month  if  he  did  not  receive  a  testimony 
of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel,  shook  his  fist  in  the  direction  of  the  mob  and 
said:  "I  know  this  Gospel  is  true."  But  it  took  a  mob  to  make  him 
conscious  of  his  testimony. — "Sweet  are  the  uses  of  adversity." 

A  few  days  ago  I  received  a  telegram  from  a  bishop  in  Zion 
stating  that  an  elder's  mother  had  died,  and  he  desired  that  I  should 
break  the  sad  news  to  the  young  man.  I  took  the  young  man  to  dinner : 
told  him  of  the  hardships,  the  griefs  and  the  sorrows  that  had  come,  to 
many  missionaries.  When  I  thought  I  had  him  at  least  partly  prepared 
to  hear  the  sad  news,  I  said :  "My  son,  your  mother  has  passed  away." 
He  wept  as  only  missionaries  can  do,  laboring  under  that  great  sorrow, 
and  I  wept  with  him.  His  mother,  on  her  death-bed,  had  made  the 
request  that  her  son  fill  his  mission.  The  young  missionary  said :  "Don't 
be  too  kind  to  me.  I  am  afraid  I  will  get  homesick.  I  am  going  to 
fulfil  my  mother's  wishes." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  did  not  that  woman  have  the  inward  witness? 
Did  her  faith  spring  from  a  gospel  that  is  not  of  God?  The  mission 
of  her  life,  the  mission  of  the  Church  burned  in  her  heart,  and  she 
wanted  to  be  one  of  God's  children  fulfilling  his  glorious  purposes  in 
her  earth  life.    One  cannot  laugh  away  a  statement  like  that.    A  court 


24 


* 

GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  law  will  accept  a  dying  statement  in  proof  of  the  case  under  con- 
sideration. Is  Oliver  Cowdery's  testimony,  is  David  Whitmer's  testi- 
mony, is  Martin  Harris'  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
true  ?  We  know  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  those  testimonies 
are  true.  It  is  my  firm  belief  that  this  sainted  mother,  who!  upon  her 
death-bed  made  the  request  that  her  son  fill  his  mission — and  she  is 
only  one  of  many  who  have  made  this  request — is  an  angel  of  God, 
and  that  before  she  breathed  her  last  she  was  an  angel  of  God.  I  don't 
believe  it  takes  death  to  transform  men  and  women  into  angels  of  our 
Father.  Her  spirit  went  to  the  God  who  gave  it,  a  blessed  woman,  one 
among  the  multitude  of  the  mothers)  of  Israel. 

II  pray  God  to  bless  us.  Brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  will  have 
your  children  baptized  when  they  reach  the  age  of  eight  years,  they  will 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  under  the  hands  of  the  authorized 
servants  of  God,  to  be  an  eternal  abiding  companion  to  them ;  and 
though  they  wander  from  the  path,  though  they  grow  indifferent  and 
sometimes  tread  the  wrong  path,  it  is  my  firm  belief — and  unshaken 
testimony,  that  the  prayers  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel  (as 
did  the  prayers  of  Alma's  father),  will  reach  their  sons  and  daughters 
in  the  hour  of  their  direst  need,  and  this  witness  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
will  prompt  them  to  return  to  the  faith  of  their  fathers  and  mothers.  I 
bear  testimony  that  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  attends  this  Church,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  President  Henry  H.  Blood  of 
the  North  Davis  Stake. 

The  conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  that  the  con- 
gregation would  join  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do  what  is  Right." 

After  the  singing,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President 
Joseph  M.  Holt  of  the  West  Jordan  Stake. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  was  very  much  edified  at  the  morning 
meeting.  The  instructions  given  and  the  testimonies  borne  were 
thorough  and  spirited.  It  was  an  extremely  enjoyable  meeting.  I  trust 
that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  be  with  us  this  afternoon  to  inspire  what 
may  be;  said  and  to  give  the  congregation  an  understanding  concerning 
matters  pertaining  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

WITNESSES  WHO  TESTIFY  CONCERNING  GOD'S  WORK 

I  am  quoting  now  from  Second  Corinthians,  13th  chapter,  1st  verse : 
"In  the  mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses  shall  every  word  be  estab- 
lished." 

We  understand  very  well  that  in  the  courts  of  the  land,  when  cases 
are  brought  forward  and  a  verdict  is  to  be  rendered,  if  the  matter  can 
be  established  by  two  or  three  witnesses  who  speak  under  oath,  it  is 
regarded  as  a  very  strong  case.  And  so  it  is  in  relation  to  matters 
pertaining  to  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God.  If  those  things  that 
are  claimed  are  sustained  by  two  or  three  or  more  witnesses  it  becomes 
a  strong  case  indeed. 

In  respect  to  the  things  which  God  puts  forth  regarding  his  work, 
he  usually  leaves  the  world  without  excuse  by  furnishing  an  abundance 
of  evidence  in  the  matter  of  witnesses.  That  is  peculiarly  the  case  in 
respect  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesusi  Christ.  We  have  very  strong  witnesses 
concerning  the' great  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  in  the  standard 
works  of  the  Church.  There  is  the  Holy  Bible,  King  James'  translation, 
one  of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  truths  set  forth  in  the  Bible  are  greatly  reinforced  and 
strengthened  by  the  testimony  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  of  which  we 
have  heard  at  this  conference.  Much  information  was  given  to  us  in  the 
discourse  delivered  by  President  Ivins  respecting  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
-And  then  we  have  the  further  witness  of  the  truth  in  our  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  still  again  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price. 
These  four  records  constitute  the  standard  works  of  the  Church. 

THE  BIBLE  AS  A  WITNESS 

We  know  very  well  the  value  of  the  Bible  which  has  come  down  to 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


us  through  the  ages,  and  which  is  widely  distributed  throughout  the 
world  today.  In  nearly  every  room  of  the  standard  hotels  of  the  coun- 
try, in  the  large  cities,  there  is  a  Bible  for  the  consultation  and  study 
of  the  guests  of  the  hotel.  We  find  the  Bible  in  the  homes  of  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  people.  ;It  is  a  wonderful  record.  It  is  a  religious 
history  of  the  people  of  God  upon  the  eastern  continent.  It  is  the  history 
of  the  children  of  Israel,  who  it  seems  have  not  been  held  in  the 
highest  repute  by  many  Christian  people  during  the  last  eighteen  hun- 
dred years ;  and  yet  the  world  is  indebted  to  the  'Jews,  or  the  children 
of  Israel,  for  this  precious  record.  In  this  record  they  are  called  the 
people  of  God.  Therein  you  will  find  an  account  of  the  holy  prophets  of 
old,  how  that  they  spake  as  they  were  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  made  many  precious  predictions. 

In  the  Bible  you  will  also  find  rather  a  full  account  of  the  life  and 
works  of  the  Savior  and  his  Apostles,  and  there  you  read  of  the  great 
atonement  that  was  wrought  out  for  the  children  of  men.  We  do>  not 
always  stop  to  consider  that  the  Christ  came  to  earth  through  the 
lineage  of  the  children  of  Israel,  but  so  it  was.  His  Apostles  were  of 
that  lineage,  and  in  fact  we  believe  as  Latter-day  Saints  that  we  are 
of  the  same  lineage.  We  realize  as  a  Church  that  we  are  greatly  in- 
debted to  the  Jewish  race  for  much  information  respecting  the  plan  of 
redemption.  We  ought  not  to  forget  that.  It  appears  to  me  that  we 
should  be  kept  in  remembrance  of  it,  and  that  we  ought  to  feel  an  in- 
terest, and  probably  we  do,  in  the  Jewish  people,  because  we  believe  that 
the  time  is  not  far  distant  when  they  will  accept  the  Gospel,  will  acknowl- 
edge the  divine  birth  of  the  Savior,  and  consequently  will  not  be  looking 
for  another  Messiah.    This  has  been  predicted  by  the  prophets  of  old. 

THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

Now,  as  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  second  witness  mentioned. 
It  is  a  wonderful  book  and  it  has  come  to  us  in  a  most  remarkable 
way.  The  story  reads  almost  like  a  romance  and  yet  we  know  and 
testify  that  it  is  absolutely  true.  The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  history 
of  the  ancient  inhabitants  of  America,  of  whom  the  Lamanites,  or  the 
American  Indians,  are  descendants.  They  have  dwindled  in  unbelief 
and  in  many  respects  have  become  degraded.  They  have  fallen  from 
the  high  place  they  once  occupied  in  the  civilization  of  ancient  America. 

The  title  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  gives  some  idea  of  the 
character  of  the  Book.  It  follows : 

"The  Book  of  Mormon,  an  account  written  by  the  hand  of  Mormon  upon 
Plates  taken  from  the  Plates  of  Nephi. 

"Wherefore,  it  is  an  abridgment  of  the  record  of  the  people  of  Nephi, 
and  also  of  the  Lamanites— Written  to  the  Lamanites,  who  are  a  remnant 
of  the  house  of  Israel;  and  also  to  Jew  and  Gentile— Written  by  way  of  com- 
mandment, and  also  by  the  spirit  of  prophecy  and  of  revelation— Written 
and  sealed  up,  and  hid  up  unto  the  Lord,  that  they  might  not  be  destroyed— 
r o  come  forth  by  the  gift  and  power  of  God  unto  the  interpretation  thereof- 
Sealed  dv  the  hand  of  Moroni,  and  hid  up  unto  the  Lord,  to  come  forth  in  due 
time  by  way  of  the  Gentile— The  interpretation  thereof  by  the  gift  of  God 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWS  ON 


27 


"An  abridgment  taken  from  the  Book  of  Ether  also,  which  is  a  record 
of  the  people  of  Jared,  who  were  scattered  at  the  time  the  Lord  confounded 
the  language  of  the  people,  when  they  were  building  a  tower  to  get  to  heaven 
— Which  is  to  show  unto  the  remnant  of  the  House  of  Israel  what  great 
things  the  Lord  hath  done  for  their  fathers;  and  that  they  may  know  the 
covenants  of  the  Lord,  that  they  are  not  cast  off  forever — And  also  to  the 
convincing  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Eternal 
God,  manifesting  himself  unto  all  nations — And  now,  if  there  are  faults 
they  are  the  mistakes  of  men;  wherefore,  condemn  not  the  things  of  God, 
that  ye.  may  be  found  spotless  at  the  judgment-seat  of  Christ." 

The  history  of  the  people  of  Nephi  began  about  six  hundred  years 
before  Christ  and  ended  four  hundred  and  twenty  years  after  Christ, 
covering  a  period  of  about  one  thousand  years.  It  is  a  remarkable 
history  and  was  hidden  up  by  commandment  of  God,  hidden  in  the 
earth  to  come  forth  at  a  later  time.  It  has  come  forth.  An  angel  came 
down  from  on  high  and  appeared  to  a  young  man  by  the  name  of  Joseph 
Smith  and  delivered  to  him  this  record  which  was  taken  out  of  the 
earth. 

ANCIENT  PREDICTIONS  FULFILLED 

The  circumstance  is  referred  to  in  the  Bible,  strange  as  it  may  seem. 
The  Prophet  Isaiah  speaks  of  the  matter  and  he  alludes  to  it  in  an 
interesting  way.  If  you  will  consult  the  twenty-ninth  chapter  of  Isaiah 
you  will  find  words  to  this  effect : 

"Woe  to  Ariel,  to  Ariel,  the  city  where  David  dwelt!  add  ye  year  to 
year;  let  them  kill  sacrifices. 

"Yet  I  will  distress  Ariel,  and  there  shall  be  heaviness  and  sorrow:  and 
it  shall  be  unto  me  as  Ariel. 

"And  I  will  camp  against  thee  round  about,  and  will  lay  siege  against 
thee  with  a  mount,  and  I  will  raise  forts  against  thee. 

"And  thou  shalt  be  brought  down,  and  shalt  speak  out  of  the  ground, 
and  thy  speech  shall  be  low  out  of  the  dust,  and  thy  voice  shall  be,  as  of  one 
that  hath  a  familiar  spirit,  out  of  the  ground,  and  thy  speech  shall  whisper 
out  of  the  dust." 

Now  that  is  remarkable  language,  the  speaking  of  something  that 
shall  come  out  of  the  ground,  a  voice,  a  message  from  the  dead.  It  fits 
exactly  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  although  the  prophecy 
was  uttered  centuries  before  the  book  was  revealed  to  the  world. 

The  Lord  speaks  of  the  condition  of  the  world  at  the  time  the 
book  was  destined  to  come  forth.    He  says : 

"Forasmuch  as  this  people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with 
their  lips  do  honor  me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far  from  me,  and  their 
fear  toward  me  is  taught  by  the  precept  of  men: 

"Therefore,  behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this 
people,  even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder:  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall  be  hid." 

So  Isaiah  predicts  that  by  reason  of  these  whisperings  that  come 
out  of  the  ground,  the  Lord  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  and  a 
wonder  in  that  day.  Well,  fortunately,  the  Latter-day  Saints  by  the 
will  of  God  have  come  into  possession  of  this  wonderful  record,  the 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Book  of  Mormon,  and  there  is  much  evidence  that  goes  with  the  record 
to  show  that  it  is  a  true  work  of  God,  and  was  translated  by  his 
marvelous  power.  There  were  four  witnesses  who  saw  the  angel  and 
who  handled  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  translated 
by  divine  power,  and  there  were  eight  witnesses  who  did  not  see  the 
angel,  but  they  did  see  the  plates  arud  handled  them  and  testified  of  the 
matter  in  a  most  solemn  way.  The  testimonies  of  the  eleven  witnesses 
are  published  in  the  fore  part  of  the  Book. 

So  far  as  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  con- 
cerned we  have  more  real  testimonies  of  the  truth  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  than  we  have  of  the  Bible,  yet  we  accept  the  Bible  as  the 
word  of  God  and  we  believe  in  it. 

THE  THIRD  WITNESS 

The  third  witness,  which  is  known  as  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  contains 
numerous  revelations  of  God  given  to  his  people  through  Joseph  Smith 
the  Prophet,  for  truly  he  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  these  revelations 
bear  the  stamp  of  divine  approval  upon  them.  There  is  a  spirit  and  a 
power  that  go  with  this  book  that  is  very  impressive  indeed,  and  to  many 
people  very  convincing.  It  is  a  testimony  to  the  world  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  do  believe  in  the  principle  of  revelation  and  that  we  cannot 
very  well  see  how  the  Church  of  God  can  be  established  upon  the  earth 
and  how  his  purposes  can  be  accomplished  unless  he  speaks  to  his 
people.  It  is  his  Church.  It  is  called  by  his  name,  called  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  it  would  seem  highly  important  that  he  being  the 
President  of  the  Church  should  speak  to  his  people,  otherwise  they 
would  be  left  without  proper  direction.  We  must  look  to  him  for 
wisdom  and  understanding  and  inspiration.  I  testify  to  the  world 
that  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  throws  very  much  light 
indeed  upon  the  plan  of  salvation. 

THE  PEAR].  OF  GREAT  PRICE 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  the  fourth  witness,  like  the  other  three 
sacred  witnesses  corresponds  with  them  exactly  in  its  teachings  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

There  is  no  variation  except  that  it  gives  one  a  little  fuller  and 
clearer  understanding  of  those  teachings.  The  title  page  and  con- 
tents read  as  follows:  "The  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  A  Selection  From 
the  Revelations,  Translations,  and  Narrations  of  Joseph  Smith,  First 
Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
Day  Saints." 

Contents :  The  Book  of  Moses— 8  chapters.  The  Bock  of  Abraham 
—5  chapters.   Writings  of  Joseph  Smith.   The  Articles  of  Faith., 

WITNESSES  WHOSE  TESTIMONIES  AGREE 

M  state  without  hesitation  that  these  four  testimonies  agree  perfectly 
in  respect  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the  plan  of  redemption 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


29 


which  he  instituted  for  the  salvation  of  men.  There  is  a  dif- 
ference of  course  in  the  history  of  the  people  who  were  responsible 
for  these  wonderful  records,  but  no  difference  whatever  in  the  plan 
of  salvation  therein  set  forth.  For  instance,  the  Holy  Bible  teaches 
with  clearness,  we  think,  that  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel  are  faith, 
repentance,  baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  the 
laying  on  of  hands  for  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  These  con- 
stitute the  fundamental  principles  of  the  Gospel. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  certifies  to  the  fact  and  agrees  perfectly  with 
the  Bible  in  this  matter,  as  do  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  The  organization  of  the  Church  as  in- 
stituted by  the  Savior  himself  and  which  was  composed  in  the  main  of 
apostles,  prophets,  evangelists,  high  priests,  seventies,  elders,  bishops, 
priests,  teachers  and  deacons,  which  constituted  the  Melchizedek  priest- 
hood and  the  Aaronic  priesthood,  is  emphasized.  This  organization  is 
strongly  emphasized  in  the  Bible  as  it  is  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and 
as  it  is  set  forth  also  in  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price. 

So  we  have  these  four  witnesses  that  agree  perfectly  in  respect 
to  this  matter,  and,  so  far  as  we  know,  and  so  far  as  our  history  has 
gone  and  our  experience,  the  testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses  as  well 
as  that  of  the  Eight  Witnesses  has  not  been  overthrown.  The  world 
will  be  judged  by  the  evidence  set  forth  in  these  precious  records. 

INDIVIDUAL  TESTIMONY 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  rejoice  in  the  knowl- 
edge, that  I  do  know  that  this  is  the  Church  of  'Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  that  Christ  was  the  Savior  of  the  world,  that  he  suffered 
by  atonement  for  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  that  we  must  look  to  him, 
and  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  do  look  to  him,  for  salvation  through  our 
good  works  and  by  our  faith. 

I  testify  to  you  that  I  do  know,  as  I  know  that  I  am  standing  here 
and  speaking,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  of  God,  that  he 
accomplished  a  mighty  work,  that  he  is  better  known  and  better  under- 
stood by  his  people  today  than  he  was  in  the  days  when  he  lived  upon 
the  earth.  I  think  we  know  him  better  than  most  anyone  else,  and  we 
are  just  as  close  to  him  as  any  people  ever  were  when  he  lived  upon  the 
earth.  This  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God  seen  by  Daniel  of  old 
that  was  to  be  set  up  and  should  never  be  thrown  down  or  given  to  other 
people,  but  must  go  on  until  the  will  of  the  Lord  is  accomplished  and 
the  world  is  saved  by  repentance  and  by  faith.  This  is  my  testimony 
and  I  humbly  bear  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

I  am  very  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  membership  in 
his  Church.    I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  !I  have  had  of  attending 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  sessions  of  this  conference  thus  far,  and  for  the  inspiration  that 
has  been  felt  as  a  result  of  the  instruction  we  have  received. 

I  fully  sense  the  responsibility  that  attaches  to  one  who  occupies  this 
position,  and  desire  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me,  that  I  may  be  directed 
to  say  such  things  as  will  be  profitable  to  us  here  upon  this  occasion. 

PERILOUS  TIMES 

We  are  living  in  perilous  times.  The  scriptures  are  being  fulfilled, 
and  as  it  appears  to  me  this  is  the  particular  time  when,  if  it  were 
possible,  the  very  elect  would  be  deceived.  It  is  remarkable  how  easy 
it  is  for  those  who  desire  to  advance  their  financial  interests  in  the  world 
to  find  a  reason  for  setting  aside  the  plain  teachings  of  the  Lord  with 
reference  to  our  lives.  And  it  is  strange  to  me  how  many  people  fall 
into  the  habit  of  listening  to  those  who  say  things  that  are  contrary  to 
the  revealed  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

This  is  a  great  institution  with  many  organizations  that  are  cal- 
culated to  bless  and  benefit  mankind.  I  fear  that  as  members  of  the 
Church  we  depend  too  much  upon  the  auxiliary  organizations,  and 
upon  the  advice  and  counsel  of  those  outside  our  own  households.  We 
have  already  heard  of  many  of  the  blessings  that  the  Lord  has  given  to 
us  in  the  sacred  records  that  have  been  kept  until  our  day,  and  that 
contain  the  advice  and  counsel  of  an  all-wise  Father.  It  seems  strange 
that  so  many  of  our  people,  with  the  opportunities  offered,  lack  familiar- 
ity with  the  contents  of  these  sacred  records. 

CONSERVATION  ADVISED 

We  live  in  a  rapid  age ;  there  is  new  development  constantly. 
The  Lord  has  warned  us  that  there  are  certain  requirements  that 
are  made  of  us,  and  that  if  we  fail  to  take  advantage  of  his  advice  and 
counsel,  these  other  things  that  seem  so  important  will  be  but  a  source 
of  sorrow  and  regret  to  us.  This  people  have  been  advised  to  conserve 
their  energies  and  their  means.  We  have  been  taught  by  those  whom 
the  Lord  has  raised  up  to  instruct  us  that  we  should  live  within  our 
income,  that  we  should  not  follow  the  fashions  of  the  world  and  expend 
as  rapidly  and  even  more  rapidly  than  we  can  earn  the  money  that 
comes  into  our  hands,  to  take  care  of  ourselves  and  our  families. 

_  I  fear  that  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  many  cases,  are  blinded  by 
their  own  vanity,  by  their  desire  to  be  what  the  world  is ;  and  we  have 
been  told  in  such  plain  language  by  our  Fleavenly  Father  that  we 
cannot  live  as  the  world  lives  and  enjoy  his  Spirit. 

CONSISTENCY  IN  OUR  LIVES 

We  read  in  the  Old  Testament  scripture  and  in  the  New  Testament, 
we  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the 
advice  and  counsel  of  our  Heavenly  Father  through  his  servants  'that 
direct  us  to  be  consistent  in  our  lives,  not  to  be  selfish,  not  to  desire 
those  things  that  belong  to  somebody  else,  to  take  care  of  our  bodies, 
to  have  our  houses  in  order,  to  exemplify  in  our  lives  those  virtues  that 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


31 


will  enrich  us  here  and  prepare  us  for  eternal  life  in  the  Celestial  king- 
dom. And  if  any  of  us  fail  it  will  not  be  because  we  have  not  been 
well  taught. 

THE  THINGS  OF  THE  WORLD 

As  I  go  out  through  the  country  and  see  the  improvements  that  are 
made,  as  I  look  at  the  fine  conveyances  that  our  people  are  using,  I 
observe  the  tendency  to  follow  after  the  world  in  so  many  ways.  I  fear 
that  if  we  are  not  careful  we  will  be  tempted  beyond  our  power  to  resist 
and  we  will  lose  the  gifts  the  Lord  desires  to  bestow  upon  us.  In  his 
wisdom  he  has  warned  us  that  some  things  commonly  used  by  the 
world  are  not  good  for  us. 

EVILS  THAT  AFFLICT  MANKIND 

For  instance,  we  read  in  Section  eighty-nine  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  that  in  our  day  certain  evils  and  designs  would  exist  in  the 
hearts  of  conspiring  men ;  and  as  I  see  the  increase  in  the  use  of  to- 
bacco among  the  people  of  the  world,  and  realize  its  baneful  effects 
upon  the  human  family,  I  am  concerned  for  our  youth.  If  as  members 
of  the  Church  we  fail  to  listen  to  the  advice  and  counsel  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  we  will  not  gain  but  we  will  lose  our  blessings.  If  as  the  head 
of  a  household  I  fail  to  influence  the  lives  of  my  family  to  avoid  the 
evils  that  afflict  mankind ;  if  by  reason  of  my  own  carelessness  or  my 
indifference  I  fail  to  inspire  in  my  children  faith  in  God,  surely  I  must 
know  that  sooner  or  later  I  may  repent  in  sorrow. 

The  harmful  use  of  stimulants  and  narcotics  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  ought  not  to  prevail.  These  habits  should  not  be  customary  with 
us  as  they  are  in  the  world,  for  we  have  been  better  taught. 

We  ought  not  to  be  among  those  who  violate  the  Sabbath  day, 
because  the  Lord  has  told  us  plainly  what  we  should  do  in  order  to 
properly  honor  his  holy  day. 

We  ought  not  to  be  among  those  who  neglect  their  prayers  and  fail 
to  seek  the  Lord  for  his  advice  and  counsel,  for  he  has  told  us  that 
if  wej  will  come  to  him  he  will  hear  us  and  bless  us;  and  if  we  in  our 
families  neglect  our  prayers  the  loss  will  be  ours. 

DIVINE  INSTRUCTION 

I  do  not  feel  like  criticising  people  in  the  world,  because  of  conduct 
that  is  prejudicial  to  good  health  and  good  morals,  as  much  as  I  feel 
like  criticising  the  members  of  this  Church  when  we  fail.  We  have 
been  divinely  instructed.  Not  only  do  we  have  the  advice  that  has 
been  given  to  the  world  through  the  Old  and  New  Testament,  but  that 
has  been  supplemented  in  our  day  by  teachings  contained  in  other  sacred 
records  and  by  the  inspired  counsels  of  men  that  we  have  sustained  as 
prophets,  seers  and  revelators.  With  these  things  confronting  us 
surely  the  members  of  this  Church  should  ever  be  on  the  alert,  we 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


should  think  seriously  of  our  privileges  and  our  opportunities,  and  we 
should  not  be  willing  to  do  what  others  do  because  it  is  popular. 

DUTIES  OF  PARENTS 

It  is  the  duty  of  fathers  and  mothers  to  call  their  families  together 
and  instruct  them.  It  is  our  duty  to  bow  before  the  Lord  in  prayer  in 
our  homes.  It  is  our  duty  to  ask  the  blessing  upon  the  food  that  we 
partake  of  and  to  thank  Him  who  gives  us  all  these  things.  It  is  our 
duty  to  be  honest  with  our  neighbor,  not  incur  obligations  thoughtlessly 
that  we  may  not  be  able  to  meet.  We  should  teach  our  children  that 
honesty  even  in  minor  things  is  important  if  they  are  to  obtain  a 
place  in  the  Celestial  kingdom. 

We  should  stress  the  necessity  of  morality  among  the  rising  gen- 
eration. It  is  not  safe  for  us  to  leave  to  our  public  schools  and  to  other 
institutions  outside  of  our  homes  the  training  of  our  boys  and  girls 
with  reference  to  a  proper  conduct  in  life.  If  we  do  not  teach  them  the 
sacredness  of  these  bodies  of  ours,  if  we  do  not  inspire  in  them  a  desire 
to  build  character  that'  is  beyond  reproach,  if  we  fail  to  impress  upon 
them  the  danger  that  confronts  them  in  their  contact  with  the  evils  that 
afflict  mankind,  we  will  not  be  justified  by  saying  that  we  did  not 
realize  how  serious  it  was.  God  has  warned  us  that  we  should  teach  our 
children  to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  before  him.  He  has  given  us 
schoolmasters  after  his  own  heart  who  have  been  instructing  us  from 
year  to  year  in  the  things  that  we  should  do.  If.  our  children  grow  up 
in  idleness  we  know  that  that  is  displeasing  to  the  Lord.  If  those  of 
our  households  neglect  to  hold  in  reverence  the  things  of  God,  we 
must  know  that  sooner  or  later  sorrow  will  come  into  their  lives;  and 
if  it  comes  into  the  lives  of  our  children  then  we,  too,  must  join  them 
in  sorrow  and  remorse. 

INTEGRITY  AND  INDUSTRY  IMPORTANT 

I  feel  very  much  concerned,  when  I  think  of  the  temptations  that 
are  everywhere  present.  The  very  fact  that  so  much  wealth  has  been 
made  available  to  many  people  gives  the  youth  in  some  instances  the 
feeling  that  because  their  parents  are  well-to-do,  honest  toil  is  not  neces- 
sary or  desirable ;  and  yet  I  am  satisfied  that  no  people  have  ever  lived 
upon  the  earth  who  have  failed  to  earn  their  livelihood  by  integrity 
and  industry,  but  have  gone  to  decay. 

I  wish  there  were  some  way  of  inculcating  into  the  minds  of  our 
boys  and  girls  a  greater  feeling  of  appreciation  for  the  advice  and 
counsel  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  a  desire  to  benefit  by  it. 

HARMFUL  LITERATURE 

When  we  think  of  the  large  amount  of  information  that  is  dis- 
seminated in  our  magazines  and  books,  easilv  accessible  to  our  boys 
and  girls,  much  of  which  is  harmful  to  those  who  read  it,  how  important 
it  is  for  us  who  have  had  years  of  experience  to  safeguard  and  direct 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


33 


them  by  pointing  out  the  dangers  that  confront  them  if  they  accept  as 
desirable  the  vagaries  and  philosophies  of  men  and  women  who  do 
not  believe  in  God. 

THE  SAFE  COURSE 

I  am  thinking  of  the  time  when  ancient  Israel  went  astray.  They 
worshiped  false  gods  They  listened  to  that  which  was  popular,  but 
false,  and  then  destruction  overtook  them.  We  are  in  just  as  much 
danger,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  any  people  who  have  ever  lived 
upon  the  earth,  unless  we  listen  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  His  is  the 
only  voice,  and  the  teachings  of  those  whom  he  directs  are  the  only 
teachings  that  we  are  safe  in  following.  We  know  that  the  adversary 
is  alert.  If  he  can,  betray  the  rising  generation,  if  he  can  lay  pitfalls 
for  their  feet  and  ensnare  them  in  evil  his  desire  has  been  realized  and 
their  downfall  is  accomplished. 

TEACHING  IN  THE  HOME 

It  is  important  that  in  our  home  and  by  our  own  firesides  we  take 
more  pains  to  teach  our  sons  and  our  daughters  those  truths  which  the 
Lord  has  made  plain  to  us  are  necessary  for  eternal  salvation.  What 
a  wonderful  privilege  it  Is  to  live  in  an  age  such  as  this!  No  such 
opportunities  were  ever  afforded  the  human  family  before.  But  with 
these  opportunities  and  blessings  there  also  comes  temptation.  It  is 
everywhere  present.  We  must  not  take  too  much  for  granted,  but  be 
alert.  We  must  feel  the  importance  of  our  duty  as  fathers  and  mothers 
and  safeguard  the  future  happiness  of  our  youth. 

I  am  grateful  for  the  great  Primary  organization  in  this  Church, 
for  the  Sabbath  Schools,  and  the  Mutual  Improvement  Associations. 
I  am  grateful  for  the  Relief  Society,  and  for  our  great  Church  school 
system.  All  of  these  things  are  making  a  contribution  for  the  salvation 
of  mankind.  I  am  mindful  of  the  advantage  of  missionary  experiences 
that  come  to  so  many  of  our  young  men  and  women.  All  these  things 
are  calculated  to  draw  us  nearer  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  But  I  feel 
like  calling  to  the  attention  of  the  fathers  and  mothers  of  Israel  today 
the  fact  that  all  these  splendid  helps  are  not  sufficient.  It  is  your  duty 
and  mine  to  see  to  it  that  in  our  own  homes  and  at  our  own  firesides  the 
important  lessons  of  life  are  taught  to  these  children,  not  leaving  them 
to  the  kindness  of  our  brethren  and  sisters — and  there  is  great  kindness 
manifested  by  them.  We  must  not  depend  upon  them  entirely.  It  is 
our  duty — I  should  say  it  is  out  privilege  as  well  as  our  duty  to  take 
sufficient  time  to  surround  our  children  with  safeguards  and  to  so 
love  them  and  earn  their  love  that  they  will  be  glad  to  listen  to  our 
advice  and  counsel.  But  if  as  a  man  holding  the  priesthood  of  the 
living  God  I  so  far  forget  myself  as  to  violate  the  Sabbath  day,  can  I  say 
to  my  son  that  he  shall  not  do  that  ?  If  I  violate  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
by  using  tea  and  coffee  in  my  home,  what  influence  have  I  with  my  boy 
or  my  girl  when  I  say  to  them,  you  shall  not  use  tobacco?  These 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


difficulties  that  afflict  us  do  not)  come  all  at  once.  They  are  insidious 
and  they  creep  into  our  midst  a  little  at  a  time,  until  after  a  while  they 
become  dominant  in  our  thinking. 

EVILS  AND  DESIGNS  IN  HEARTS  OF  CONSPIRING  MEN 

When  I  realize  the  harmfulness  of  the  cigarette,  and  how  great 
the  effort  that  is  being  made  to  make  its  use  universal  by  every  means 
of  advertising,  I  realize  what  our  Father  meant  when  he  warned  us  to 
be  on  our  guard. 

Permit  me  to  read  what  the  Lord  has  said  with  reference  to  this 
matter.    This  revelation  was  given  February  27th,  1833 : 

"Behold,  verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord  unto  you:  In  consequence  of  evils 
and  designs  which  do  and  will  exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the 
last  days,  I  have  warned  you,  and  forewarn  you,  by  giving  unto  you  this 
word  of  wisdom  by  revelation. — " 

In  that  very  chapter  the  Lord  mentions  the  use  of  strong 
drinks.  He  tells  us  of  the  baneful  influence  of  tobacco.  He 
warns  us  against  the  very  things  that  today  are  being  championed  by 
men  who  stand  in  high  places,  as  being  desirable  to  the  children  of  men. 
Are  we  as  a  people  to  listen  to  these  men  who  are  misled  by  the  ad- 
versary? Or  shall  we  take  for  granted  that  what  they  say  is  true, 
when  in  the  face  of  it,  the  Creator  of  the  heavens  and  the  earth,  he  who 
loves  us  and  desires  our  salvation,  has  plainly  told  us  that  these  things 
are  not  good  for  us  ? 

JOY  AND  BLESSINGS  THROUGH  RIGHTEOUS  LIVES 

I  hope  and  pray  that  as  members  of  the  Church  Ave  will  be  more 
diligent  in  the  future  than  we  have  been  in  the  past ;  that  we  will  be 
more  earnest  than  we  have  ever  been  in  safe-guarding  the  youth 
against  all  manner  of  evil.  If  any  of  us  in  the  past  have  ignored  the 
kind  and  loving  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father  with  reference  to  these 
things  that  so  many  think  are  not  important,  let  us  repent  of  our  sins, 
and  ask  forgiveness  for  our  weakness.  Then  let  us  turn  to  him  and 
obey  his  wise  counsels ;  thereby  enriching  our  lives  and  earning  the 
right  to  the  companionship  of  his  Holy  Spirit.  We  will  then  radiate 
an  influence  in  the  world  for  the  blessing  of  all  those  with  whom  we 
come  in  contact. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you  good  men  and  women  who 
preside  in  the;  various  departments  of  this  great  Church,  you  who  give 
so  much  of  your  time  for  the  blessing  of  mankind,  that  your  physical 
and  spiritual  strength  may  be  renewed  unto  you;  that  the  joy  that 
was  expressed  by  one  of  our  faithful  brethren  this  morning  when  he 
referred  to  his  mission  experience,  may  fill  your  souls ;  and  that  we 
may  all  feel  the  sacred  nearness  of  our  Heavenly  Father  by  reason  of 
our  righteous  lives. 

our  father's  work 
This  is  our  Father's  work.  He  gave  it  to  the  world  for  the  salva- 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


35 


tion  of  the  human  family.  He  has  counseled  and  advised  us  in  loving 
tenderness,  and  now  let  us  be  wise,  let  us  be  consistent.  Let  us  put 
our  own  houses  in  order;  and  then  by  the  power  that  will  come  to  us 
as  a  result  of  our  faithfulness  and  devotion,  let  us  carry  the  message  of 
life  and  salvation  unto  the  children  of  men  with  greater  power,  with 
greater  strength,  with  greater  determination  than  we  have  ever  done 
before,  to  the  honor  and  glory  of  God  and  the  blessing  of  his  children, 
to  our  own  salvation  and  the  salvation  of  those  we  love,  1  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Nature's  Adoration,"  was  sung  by  Charles  O. 
Peterson. 

ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  a  blessed  privilege  and  I  am  very 
happy  to  have  this  opportunity  of  briefly  reporting  the  Northern  States 
mission  of  the  Church. 

It  is  a  pleasure  indeed  to  advise  you  that  there  is  not  a  single  case 
of  sickness  or  illness  among  the  brethren  and  sisters  laboring  in  that 
mission.  During  the  past  six  months  the  flu  and  kindred  diseases  and 
complications  have  raged  almost  rampant.  These  diseases  have  claimed 
their  victims  by  the  hundreds,  and  deaths  have  ensued  in  many  cases. 
Our  missionaries  have  not  wholly  escaped  these  illnesses,  but  through 
the  providences  of  our  kind  Heavenly  Father,  through  administration 
and  faith,  we  have  had  no  serious  results ;  and  each  one,  so  far  as  I  am 
advised,  is  in  the  enjoyment  of  full  and  perfect  health  and  strength. 

We  have  had  some  wonderful  manifestations  of  the  power  of  God's 
priesthood.  One  of  cur  aged  brethren,  a  short-term  missionary,  who 
was  not  able  to  endure  the  rigors  of  the  hard  winter,  was  attacked 
by  flu  and  double  pneumonia.  We  got  him  placed  comfortably  in  a 
hospital  under  good  doctor's  and  nurses'  care  in  the  city  of  Milwaukee. 
The  first  and  second  days  his  condition  was  reported  very  favorable. 
On  a  Wednesday  noon  the  mission  office  received  a  telephone  message 
from  the  doctor  in!  charge,  advising  me  to  come  to  Milwaukee  at  once, 
that  this  brother  could  not  live  the  day  out ;  and  he  advised  mej  to  com- 
municate with  his  family  and  let  them  know  how  serious  his  condition 
was,  or  they  would  receive  the  word  of  his  death  before  they  knew 
of  his  illness.  A  son  of  this  good  brother  was  also  a  short-term  mis- 
sionary in  one  of  our  other  states,  and  I  communicated  immediately 
with  him,  asking  that  he  advise  his  folks  at  home  in  jldaho,  and  then 
hasten  himself  to  his  father's  bedside,  to  which  place  I  also  would  speed. 

When  we  came  there  in  the  afternoon  the  old  gentleman  could 
scarcely  breathe,  but  his  unbounded  faith,  united  with  the  faith  of  his 
associates,  prevailed.  He  was  administered  to  two  or  three  times  in  the 
afternoon  and  evening.    We  stayed  with  him  until  a  late  hour  at  night, 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  at  midnight  his  son  arrived.  When  the  doctor  came  in  the  morning 
he  could  scarcely  credit  the  improvement  in  the  old  gentleman's  con- 
dition ;  and  after  he  had  given  a  thorough  diagnosis  of  the  case,  ex- 
amined him  thoroughly  and  prescribed  what  he  thought  was  necessary 
to  be  dona  and  was  ready  to  go,  I  told  the  doctor  I  would  like  to  talk 
with  him. 

We  went  out  into  another  room  and  in  a  fifteen  or  twenty  minute  in- 
terview I  told  him  who  we  were,  why  we  were,  and  our  purposes  as 
missionaries  in  the  nations  of  the  earth.  J  told  him  how  our  elders  and 
our  sisters  traveled  among  the  nations  of  the  earth  preaching  the  Gospel, 
and  I  asked  him  if  we  could  depend  upon  him  giving  our  brother  his 
best  services.  He  was  very  much  impressed,  and  he  assured  me  that 
he  would  not  only  give  the  best  possible  attention,  but  that  he  would 
be  considerate  in  presenting  the  bill  for  his  services,  and  that  in  the 
future  whenever  we  had  occasion  to  trust  to  his  care  any  of  our  elders 
or  missionaries  that  we  might  be  certain  they  would  be  given  the  best 
of  service. 

It  was  a  pleasure  to  deliver  this  kind  of  message  to  Dr.  Gambling, 
one  of  the  leading  physicians  and  practitioners  in  the  city  of  Milwaukee 
and  in  one  of  its  fine  hospitals.  I  also  had;  the  opportunity  of  delivering 
the  same  message  to  the  superintendent  of  the  hospital. 

This  brother  who  the  doctor  said;  could  not  live  the  day  out  con- 
tinued to  regain  his  strength  until  a  period  of  two  weeks  time  had 
elapsed,  when  we  met  him  as  he  was  transferring  from  one  train  to 
another  in  the  city  of  Chicago,  homeward  bound.  Through  the  grace 
and  providence  of  our  Heavenly  Father  his  life  was  spared. 

A  very  fine  Latter-day  Saint  doctor,  a  former  missionary  in  the 
Northern  States,  later  a  student  and  graduate,  and  now  a  practitioner 
of  medicine  and  surgery  in  one  of  our  great  cities,  recently  married. 
He  came  to  our  office  one  afternoon  and  asked  me  if  we  would  give 
his  wife  a  mother's  blessing  preceding  her  confinement,  and  we  were 
very  pleased  to  assure  him  that  we  would  do  that.  A  few  days  after- 
wards he  called  me,  very  much  alarmed  and  concerned,  and  said  that 

very  untoward  evidences  were  manifest  in  the  condition  of  his  wife  

high  blood  pressure,  temperature,  body  filling  with  dropsy  and  a  num- 
ber of  things  that  presaged  a  terrible  condition.  He  asked  if  we 
could  give  his  wife  that  mother's  blessing  that  day.  In  the  evening 
Sister  Pond  accompanied  me  to  his  home,  which  was  five  or  six  miles 
distant  from  the  office.  He  told  us  of  the  terrible  condition  his  wife 
was  in.  He  had  had  experience,  and  he  said  he  had  seen  a  number 
of  his  own  household  die  under  confinement  cases  such  as  was  imminent 
with  his  wife,  and  that  he  and  another  very  eminent  doctor  did  not 
propose  to  take  any  chances  with  regard  to  the  life  of  his  wife,  that 
that  night  they  were  going  to  perform  a  Caesarian  operation  and  take 
the  baby  dead  or  alive,  but  save  the  life  of  his  wife.  When  we  gave 
her  a  blessing  we  promised  her  that  her  delivery  should  be  natural  and 
normal  and  that  she  would  have  the  blessing  and  privilege  of  nursing 
her  baby.    He  drove  us  to  our  home,  and  when  he  returned  matters 


ELDER  NOAH  S.  POND 


37 


were  moving  rapidly.  Labor  had  set  in  and  he  hurriedly  secured  the 
ambulance  and  took  his  wife  to  the  hospital.  Arriving  there  he  was 
very  much  perturbed  about  not  locating  the  other  doctor.  He  could 
not  get  him  on  the  telephone;  so  he  took  his  car  and  rushed  to  his 
home  and  office  in  an  endeavor  to  secure  him.  An  hour  and  a  half 
or  two  hours  intervened,  and  when  he  came  back  after  a  futile  search 
for  the  other  doctor,  his  wife  had  been  delivered  of  a  beautiful  bahy 
and  everything  was  natural  and  normal.  The  dropsy,  the  high  blood 
pressure,  and  the  other  untoward  evidences  had  disappeared.  The  baby 
was  premature  and  was  placed  in  an  incubator.  It  is  thriving  beautifully. 

This  is  a  typical  case.  Our  missionaries  have  had  wonderful  ex- 
periences. One  of  our  short-term  brethren  visited  and  was  kindly 
received  by  the  governor  of  one  of  our  great  States,  who  invited  him  to 
come  to  the  Capitol  and  later  to  visit  his  home.  A  few  weeks  ago  one 
of  our  sister  missionaries  was  kindly  received  and  invited  into  a  home, 
and  when  she  was  properly  seated  the  lady  of  the  home  said : 

"My  husband  is  a  grandson  of  Colonel  Geddes,  who  as  a  member 
of  the  State  militia  drove  the  Mormon  people  out  of  Illinois.  We  have 
heard  all  about  the  anti-Mormon  side  of  this  history.  I  am  so  happy  to 
meet  you  this  afternoon.  I  want  you  to  take  off  your  things,  sit  down 
in  my  house,  and  tell  me  the  truth  from  the  Mormon  standpoint." 

This  sister  later  had  the  opportunity  of  meeting  this  woman's 
husband,  and  they  are  now  interested  prospective  investigators  of  the 
truth  of  the  restored  Gospel,  and  this  divine  Church. 

I  am  pleased,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  know  that  our  kind 
Heavenly  Father  never  drew  a  geographical  line  of  distinction  with 
reference  to  his  children.  On  the  contrary,  the  scripture  and  the  Gospel 
teach  us  that 

"God  hath  made  of  one  blood  all  nations  of  men  for  to  dwell  on  all 
the  face  of  the  earth,  and  hath  determined  the  times  before  appointed,  and 
the  bounds  of  their  habitation." 

Paul  taught  the  Athenians  and  the  Romans  that  there  was  no  dif- 
ference between  the  Jew  and  the  Greek,  for  the  same  God  was  Father 
over  all,  and  would  give  his  blessings  to  all  those  who  would  obey  him 
and  seek  him.    Paul  continued  by  saying: 

"How  then  shail  they  call  on  him  in  whom  they  have  not  believed?  and 
how  shall  they  believe  in  him  of  whom  they  have  not  heard?  and  how  shall 
they  hear  without  a  preacher? 

"And  how  shall  they  preach  except  they  be  sent?  as  it  is  written, 
How  beautiful  are  the  feet  of  them  that  preach  the  gospel  of  peace,  and 
bring  glad  tidings  of  good  things!" 

Paul  further  declared,  as  did  also  Isaiah,  that  not  all  the  world 
would  receive  the  Gospel,  but  that  it  should  be  preached  to  them  and 
they  should  have  an  opportunity  of  hearing  it.  As  I  observed,  I  am 
happy  to  know  that  our  Father  never  drew  a  geographic  line;  he  has 
never  expressed  love  for  one  of  his  children  simply  because  he  was 
born  in  Great  Britain,  and  hated  one  because  he  was  born  in  Germany ; 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


or  loved  one  because  he  was  born  in  the  United  States,  and  disliked 
one  because  he  was  born  in  Australia.  But  wherever  our  Father's  chil- 
dren have  obeyed  him  and  sought  him  he  has  recognized  them  and  given 
them  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel. 

I  can  testify  to  you  that  this  Gospel  is  being  preached  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth  in  advance  of  the  coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior. 
I  have  seen  the  fulfilment  of  that  passage  of  scripture  which  says  that  he 
would  take  them  one  of  a  city  and  two  of  a  family,  and  give  them 
pastors  after  his  own  mind.  In  my  youth  I  used  to  think  that  was 
wrong,  or  a  misinterpretation  of  the  scriptures,  but  I  have  seen  it 
manifest  where  one  single  individual  in  a  city  or  town  or  hamlet,  and 
where  two  of  a  family,  have  accepted  the  Gospel.  We  glide  from  one 
State  into  another,  as  from  Utah  to  Idaho,  from  Iowa  to  Illinois,  from 
Illinois  to  Indiana,  from  Michigan  and  Wisconsin  in  the  United  States 
into  Canada.  Men  and  nations  make  the  geographic  line  of  distinction  by 
an  ocean,  a  sea,  a  river,  a  lake,  a  mountain  range.  But  our  Father 
draws  no  line  of  geography  in  the  salvation  of  his  children. 

I  am  happy  to  report  the  excellent  work  of  your  sons  and  daughters, 
your  brothers  and  sisters,  elders  and  lady  missionaries  of  the  Northern 
States.  I  humbly  pray  for  our  Father's  choicest  blessings  upon  his 
.servants,  the  First  Presidency,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  all  the 
presiding  quorums  of  the  priesthood,  you  my  brethren  and  sisters  in 
the  wards  and  stakes  of  Zion.  You  fathers  and  mothers,  we  are 
solicitous  of  co-operation  with  you  in  the  fine  working  operations  of 
your  sons  and  daughters  as  missionaries. 

I  pray  for  our  Father's  blessings  upon  all  his  children  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  certainly  feel  my  weakness  in  stand- 
ing before  you  this  afternoon. 

It  has  been  only  about  two  and  one-half  months  since  the  East 
Central  States  mission  was  organized,  and  it  has  meant  a  great  deal 
of  hard  Work  to  get  the  organization  completed  and  to  get  things  in 
running  order.  But  I  am  very  pleased  to  state  that  with  the  wonderful 
help  we  have  received  from  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  President 
Charles  A.  Callis,  President  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  and  others,  we  have  been 
able  to  gather  the  necessary  information  from  time  to  time,  so  that  we 
have  been  able  to  organize  the  mission  so  that  it  is  now  in  a  very  good 
condition. 

jit  took  considerable  time  to  decide  just  where  to  locate,  and  then 
to  obtain  headquarters.  The  East  Central  States  mission  comprises  the 
following  states  which  were  taken  from  the  Southern  States  mission : 
Kentucky,  Tennessee,  Virginia,  and  North  Carolina.  It  also  includes 
the  state  of  West  Virginia,  which  formerly  belonged  to  the  Eastern 


ELDER  MILES  L.  JONES 


39 


States  mission.    Our  headquarters  are  located  in  Louisville,  Kentucky. 

Your  sons  and  your  daughters  who  are  laboring  in  that  mission 
are  all  interested  in  their  work.  They  are  united  and  working  together 
for  the  advancement  of  the  cause  in  all  parts  of  the  mission,  jl  am 
very  pleased  to  report  that  at  the  present  time  we  haven't  an  elder  or 
lady  missionary  that  is  sick  or  afflicted  in  any  way ;  they  are  all  able 
to  take  care  of  their  work  and  go  about  their  duties,  for  which  we  are 
very  thankful.  During  the  past  winter  there  have  been  many  cases  of 
influenza  among  our  lahoring  force,  as  well  as  among  the  Saints; 
there  has  also  been  an  epidemic  of  small-pox  and  one  of  diphtheria 
in  that  part  of  the  world.  But  we  have  had  very  few  fatalities  among 
our  people,  for  which  we  are  very  thankful.  Today  they  are  prac- 
tically all  enjoying  health  and  strength  and  are  enjoying  their  labors. 

We  have  been  blessed  with  a  number  of  short-term  missionaries — 
men  of  mature  years,  those  who  have  had  experience  in  the  bishopric,  in 
the  stake  presidency,  as  high  councilors,  and  in  other  capacities— 
who  have  come  into  our  midst;  and  they  have  been  able  to  help  the 
younger  elders  and  lady  missionaries.  They  have  been  able  to  lead  into  the 
waters  of  baptism  people  whom  the  younger  missionaries  have  not  been 
able  to  persuade  to  go  that  far. 

Two  weeks  ago  last  Sunday  we  held  a  conference  at  New  Martins- 
ville, West  Virginia.  We  had  three  very  good  meetings,  well  at- 
tended. A  few  days  following  that  conference  eleven  honest  souls  en- 
tered the  waters  of  baptism. 

A  week  ago  last  Sunday  we  held  a  conference  at  Madisonville, 
Kentucky,  in  a  part  of  the  country  that  heretofore  has  been  somewhat 
hostile,  so  to  speak,  to  our  people.  The  authorities  of  that  city  gave  us 
the  use  of  the  court  house,  free  of  charge,  and  we  had  an  attendance 
of  148  at  the  afternoon  session,  without  counting  the  children.  Of  that 
number  I  should  say  that  about  one-third  were  representative  citizens 
of  that  community  who  did  not  belong  to  the  Church ;  and  with  but 
one  exception  they  seemed  to  be  well  satisfied  with  that  which  they  heard. 
During  the  course  of  my  remarks  that  afternoon  I  referred  to  the 
love  that  the  Lord  has  for  his  children,  that  instead  of  there  being 
just  a  single  dividing  line  so  that  certain  ones  would  go  either  to  eternal 
damnation  and  others  to  eternal  exaltation  and  glory,  every  man,  woman, 
and  child  would  be  judged  according  to  his  works  here  upon  the  earth, 
and  would  receive  a  reward  such  as  they  might  merit.  One  gentleman 
took  exception  to  that  remark.  He  said,  "According  to  your  version  no 
one  goes  to  hell,  or  there  fs  no  hell.''  I  told  him  that  we  were  not 
preaching  hell-fire  and  damnation,  but  that  we  were  preaching  salvation 
for  the  human  family.  After  talking  a  few  minutes  I  think  I  fairly 
well  satisfied  the  gentleman  that  the  views  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
give  to  the  world  are  logical  and  in  accordance  with  the  doctrines  which 
the  Lord  has  set  forth  here  upon  the  earth. 

Not  long  ago  a  professor  in  one  of  the  schools  in  one  of  the  states 
of  our  mission  brought  up  the  question  as  to  the  belief  of  the  Mormon 
people.   At  the  close  of  his  remarks  a  little  girl  in  the  class,  who,  by  the 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


way,  is  a  member  of  the  Church,  raised  her  hand  and  wanted  to  correct 
him  as  to  a  certain  statement  that  he  had  made  ;  and  she  did  correct 
his  statement.  He  turned  to  her  and  said,  "I  would  like  to  see  you  a 
few  minutes  after  the  close  of  the  school."  The  young  lady  remained 
after  school,  and  they  conversed  for  some  time  in  regard  to  Mormon 
teachings.  Finally  he  said,  "I  have  come  to  the  conclusion  that  if  I  am 
going  to  learn  anything  about  the  Mormons  I  must  go.  to  a  Mormon." 
He  wanted  some  literature,  and  literature  pertaining  to  the  Gospel  has 
been  furnished  him  from  time  to  time.  Since  my  coming  here,  just 
a  day  or  two  ago,  I  received  a  letter  from  this  gentleman  in  which  he 
asked  that  some  one  be  sent  to  his  school  to  attend  certain  exercises 
that  are  to  be  held  within  the  next  week  or  ten  days,  and  there  present 
the  views  and  teachings  of  our  people  to  his  class  and  also  to  another 
class  or  two  that  want  to  unite  with  his.  I  lost  no  time  in  answering 
that  letter  and  directing  the  president  of  the  district  in  which  that  school 
is  located  to  go  personally  or  to  see  that  some  elder  is  sent  there  to 
fill  that  appointment,  and  set  forth  to  those  students  the  things  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  believe  and  teach. 

'I  find  that  in  our  meetings  in  various  places  many  people  will  talk 
with  us  and  listen  to  that  which  we  have  to  say.  While  it  is  a  time 
when  there  is  a  great  deal  of  indifference  in  the  world,  yet  the  seed  is 
being  planted  from  time  to  time,  and  some  day  it  will  spring  forth 
and  bear  fruit.  As  was  said  by  Paul,  "God  giveth  the  increase."  So  it 
is  in  the  world  today.  I  find  in  my  conversations  with  people  that 
when  I  ask  them  if  they  are  satisfied  within  themselves  with  that  which 
they  have,  almost  without  exception  they  say  that  they  are  not,  that 
there  is  something  lacking.  They  have  the  desire  to  worship  God  in 
some  way,  or  in  some  form,  but  there  is  something  lacking  within  their 
souls,  and  that  is  the  message  that  we  have  for  them. 

Some  of  you  who  are  corresponding  with  your  sons  and  daughters 
from  time  to  time,  can,  in  your  letters,  to  them,  give  them  a  word  or 
two  that  will  mean  a  great  deal  to  them.  I  recall  now  a  letter  that  was 
shown  to  me  by  one  of  the  young  ladies  just  before  Christmas  time,  that 
she  received  from  her  mother  in  Downey,  Idaho.  II  hope  that  mother 
is  in  the  congregation  today.  In  the  letter  she  said,  calling  her  daughter 
by  name,  "We  would  be  glad  if  you  could  be  with  us  during  the  Christ- 
mas festivities,  but  we  would  rather  that  you  be  where  you  are,"  ex- 
pressing just  what  the  mother  felt.  While  she  would  have  liked  to  have 
her  daughter  with  her,  yet  she  would  rather  that  she  be  in  the  nations 
of  the  earth  performing  the  work  she  was  called  to  do,  and  carrying  the 
message  of  salvation  to  those  who  sit  in  darkness. 

I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge  that  I  have  of  this  work.  I  know  as 
I  know  that  I  live  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  the  humble  instrument  in  the 
hands  of  the  Almighty  of  again  establishing  his  work  here  upon  the 
earth ;  and  that  work  will  go  forth  until  eventually  it  covers  the  entire 
earth. 

'I  pray  that  God  will  bless  us  all,  that  we  may  have  the  spirit  of 


ELDER  MJLES  L.  JONES 


41 


our  work  from  time  to  time,  and  be  able  to  magnify  our  callings  in  a 
way  that  will  be  pleasing  in  his  sight,  so  that  when  we  come  to  the  end 
of  mortal  life  we  may  receive  the  plaudit,  "Well  done,  thou  good  and 
faithful  servant :  thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make 
thee  ruler  over  many  things;  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord." 
May  this  be  our  happy  lot,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

The  missionaries  of  the  Church  are  perhaps  putting  forth  more 
effort  today  than  ever  before  in  our  history  in  the  distribution  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  about  which  so  much  has  been  said  during  this 
conference.  Not  long  ago  we  received  through  the  mail  a  little  booklet 
written  by  a  reverend  gentleman  who  had  acted  as  a  missionary  in  this 
state.  He  said  that  on  every  page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  written 
"Fraud,  Fraud,  Fraud."  He  said  Joseph  Smith  was  so  unlearned  and 
ignorant  that  he  misspelled  the  same  word  three  times  on  one  page.  I 
thought  as  I  read  that  tract :  You  should  not  only  put  Fraud  upon  every 
page  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  but  you  should  turn  back  into  the  Old 
Testament  itself  and  write  Fraud  upon  its  pages ;  for  Isaiah,  as  has  been 
quoted  here  today,  in  declaring  prophetically,  six  hundred  years  before 
Christ,  the  person  who  was  to  produce  this  book,  said  that  that  person 
would  say  he  could  not  translate  it  because  he  was  not  learned.  Our 
friend  would  have  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  deny  that  prophetic  state- 
ment which  was  uttered  concerning  him  hundreds  of  years  before  his 
birth. 

He  said,  "No  matter  how  the  Mormons  dress  this  work  up,  you 
can  always  see  the  cloven  foot  sticking  out."  I  thought :  I  wish  I  could 
talk  with  that  man  a  little  while  and  open  the  pages  of  this  book,  and 
read  some  things  to  him.  And  these  words  came  to  my  mind :  There 
is  a  passage  in  this  book  that  says,  speaking  of  the  American  continent, 
that  it  is  a  choice  land,  choice  above  all  other  lands.  Whether  that 
statement  was  made  by  that  young  Nephite  prophet  before  he  had  ever 
seen  this  continent,  while  en  route  from  the  old  world,  or  whether 
it  was  made  by  Joseph  Smith  when  he  published  this  book  in  1830, 
it  has  been  fulfilled.  It  has  a  prophetic  fulfilment  even  in  our  day, 
for  this  nation  of  ours  has  really  come  to  be  a  great  nation;  it  is  today 
a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands.  When  this  book  was  published 
to  the  world  in  1830,  there  were  a  few  scant  miles  of  railroad  on  the 
American  continent.  Today,  after  an  hundred  years,  what  do  we  find? 
Fifty  per  cent  of  the  mileage  of  railroads  of  the  world  is  in  the  United 
States.  Seventy-five  per  cent  of  the  telephone  and  telegraph  lines  of 
the  world  are  in  the  United  States.  Ninety  per  cent  of  the  automobiles 
of  the  world  are  in  the  United  States.  Would  Joseph  Smith  have  dared 
to  say  in  1830,  when  he  published  this  record,  that  these  conditions 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


would  prevail,  when  so  much  depended  upon  their  fulfilment  so  far  as 
his  future  was  concerned? 

Again,  twenty-nine  years  after  this  book  was  published  the  first  oil 
well  in  the  United  States  was  driven  in  Pennsylvania.  Today  we  have 
over  three  hundred  thousand  oil  prodtfcing  wells  in  the  United  States. 
During  the  year  1927  we  produced  109,000,000  barrels  of  oil — sixty-six 
per  cent  of  all  the  oil  of  the  world.  Did  Joseph  Smith  know  in  1830 
that  we  would  be  producing  sixty-six  per  cent  of  the  oil  of  the  world? 
Or  did  Nephi  know  it  when  ha  said,  away  back  before  he  landed  here, 
that  this  would  be  the  condition?  Surely  this  is  a  great  and  mighty 
nation. 

This  book  further  says : 

"And  I  will  fortify  this  land  against  all  other  nations. 

"And  he  that  fighteth  against  Zion  shall  perish,  saith  God." 

Let  the  nations  of  the  world  beware,  for  that  nation  that  fights 
against  Zion  shall  perish. 

We  are  a  great  nation  in  many  ways.  Politically  we  are  a  great 
nation.  President  Hoover,  in  his  speech  in  New  Jersey  last  September, 
said  :  "The  great  American  ideal  is  the  equal  opportunity  of  its  citizens." 
Nowhere  else  under  the  shining  sun  today  is  there  opportunity  equal  to 
that  which  has  been  guaranteed  and  worked  out  for  this  nation.  We 
recently  voted  for  two  men  for  the  highest  honor  within  the  gift  of 
the  American  people — one  of  them  an  orphaned  newsboy,  the  other  one 
an  orphaned  blacksmith's  son — and  one  of  them  is  today  seated  in  the 
United  States  presidential  chair.  He  said  in  his  inaugural  speech :  "If  I 
am  to  succeed  as  the  President  of  the  United  States,  I  must  do  it  under 
the  authority  and  power  of  God." 

"There  shall  be  no  kings  upon  this,  land,"  says  this  book.  Who 
would  have  dared  to  say  that  in  1830,  when  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
published?  Who  knew  that  the  nations  of  the  old  world  would  not 
overrun  this  nation  and  set  up  a  kingdom?  People  may  say  that  "we 
can  dress  up  that  book  but  the  cloven  foot  sticks  out,"  but  I  am  prepared 
to  say,  from  the  depth  of  my  soul  that  you  may  picture  all  the  cloven 
feet  you  want  to  but  the  points  of  eternal  truth  will  stick  out ;  and 
the  youth  of  this  people  will  discover,  with  their  brethren  and  sisters 
who  have  gone  forth  and  preached  the  Gospel,  that  this  work  is  the 
work  of  God. 

I  bear  witness  today  that  the  Lord  knew  what  he  was  speaking 
about  when  he  said  that  the  words  of  this  book  should  be  carried  to 
the  learned,  and  they  would  say :  I  cannot  translate  it  for  it  is  sealed ; 
and  it  would  be  carried  back  to  the  unlearned  who  would  say :  I  cannot, 
for  I  am  not  learned.  And  then  God  would  say :  "Forasmuch  as  this 
people  draw  near  me  with  their  mouth,  and  with  their  lips  do  honor 
me,  but  have  removed  their  heart  far  from  me.  *  *  *  Therefore, 
behold,  I  will  proceed  to  do  a  marvelous  work  among  this  people, 
even  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder :  for  the  wisdom  of  their  wise 
men  shall  perish,  and  the  understanding  of  their  prudent  men  shall 
be  hid." 


ELDER  JOHN  G.  ALLRED 


43 


I  leave  my  witness  with  you,  and  wish  that  I  could  leave  it  with 
the  world,  that  God  our  Father  has  restored  to  the  earth  the  fulness  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus,  in  this  sacred  record ;  for  it  says  on  the  fly-leaf  that 
it  has  been  brought  forth  for  the  convincing  of  the  Jew  and  the  Gentile 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  I  testify  to  you  today  that  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon is  bearing  witness  in  the  hearts  of  the  children  of  men  as  faithfully 
today  as  the  record  of  the  Jews  has  done  in  the  past,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ ;  and  I  leave  this  witness  with  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  "Now  let  us  Rejoice  in  the  day  of  Salva- 
tion," and  after  the  closing  prayer  by  President  James  R.  Ware  of  the 
South  Sevier  Stake,  the  Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  a.  m., 
Saturday,  April  6th. 


SECOND  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  at  the  third  session  of  the 
conference,  which  began  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Saturday,  April  6,  1929. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation." 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  President  T.  Clark  Callister  of  the 
Millard  Stake. 

The  congregation  sang  "Redeemer  of  Israel/' 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Speaking  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  concerning  which  we  heard 
very  valuable  instructions  yesterday,  I  venture  to  emphasize  the  thought 
that  we  apply  very  diligently  in  our  lives  the  principles  and  precepts  set 
forth  in  that  volume  of  scripture.  The  Book  of  Mormon  is\  more  than 
a  book  in  the  ordinary  sense.  It  is  the  best  of  all  the  literature  written 
in  this  Church  for  missionary  work.  For  many  years  I  have  urged,  as 
have  my  brethren  likewise,  that  our  missionaries  strive  to  get  the  Book 
of  Mormon  into  the  hands  of  the  people,  both  members  and  non- 
members  of  the  Church.  I  am  happy  in  the  realization  that  while  a 
few  years  ago  we  sold  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  lots  of  tens 
and  scores,  sending  them  out  to  the  missions,  we  now  send  them  by 
thousands.  The  statistics  regarding  the  sale  and  distribution  of  that 
work,  particularly  as  reported  by  the  mission  presidents,  furnish  a 
testimony  beyond  all  question  of  the  pouring  out  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  upon  the  people  of  the  world. 

AS  TO  BOOK  OF  MORMON  LANDS 

I  sometimes  think  we  pay  a  little  undue  attention  to  technicalities, 
and  to  questions  that  cannot  be  fully  answered  with  respect  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  It  matters  not  to  me  just  where  this  city  or  that 
camp  was  located.  I  have  met  a  few  of  our  Book  of  Mormon  students 
who  claim  to  be  able  to  put  a  ringer  upon  the  map  and  indicate  every 
land  and  city  mentioned  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  fact  is,  the 
Book  of  Mormon  does  not  give  us  precise  and  definite  information 
whereby  we  can  locate  those  places  with  certainty.  I  encourage  and 
recommend  all  possible  investigation,  comparison  and  research  in  this 
matter.  The  more  thinkers,  investigators,  workers  we  have  in  the 
field  the  better ;  but  our  brethren  who  devote  themselves  to  that  kind  of 
research  should  remember  that  they  must  speak  with  caution  and  not 
declare  as  demonstrated  truths  points  that  are  not  really  proved.  There 
is  enough  Jruth  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  occupy  you  and  me  for  the 
rest  of  our  lives,  without  our  giving  too  much  time  and  attention  to 
these  debatable  matters. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


45 


HOW  TO  KNOW  FOR  ONE'S  SELF 

I  speak  specifically  of  the  testimony  that  has  come  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  that  will  come  to  any  members  of  the  Church  or  other 
earnest  investigator  who  will  read  the  book  rightly — as  to  its  genuine- 
ness. The  divinely-inspired  promise  written  by  Moroni  has  found  literal 
fulfilment  in  scores  of  thousands  of  cases.  I  refer  to  his  last  word 
respecting  the  record  which  he  was  about  to  hide  up  unto  the  Lord.  It 
is  recorded  in  the  tenth  chapter  of  Moroni :  "And  when  ye  shall  receive 
these  things,  I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ,  if  these  things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye 
shall  ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  intent,  having  faith  in  Christ,  he 
will  manifest  the  truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost." 
Then  he  very  pertinently  adds:  "And  by. the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
ye  may  know  the  truth  of  all  things." 

Many  of  us  have  received  that  testimony;  but  of  those  who  have 
so  received  there  are  some  who,  do  not  stand  by  it  as  they  should.  I 
think  it  well  that  we  speak  plainly  to  one  another  at  times.  There  are 
those  who  forget  what  the  Lord  has  said  through  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  who  are  led  away  into  the  jungle  of  error,  much  of  which  belongs 
to  the  marshy  and  uncertain  ground  preempted  in  the  name  of  higher 
criticism.    Permit  me  to  give  you  an  example ;  one  may  suffice. 

THE  BOOK  OF  ISAIAH  AND  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

It  has  been  declared  and  proclaimed  by  a  certain  school  of  Bible 
students,  commentators  and  scholars,  that  the  Book  of  Isaiah  was 
written  not  entirely  by  Isaiah  the  Prophet,  the  son  of  Amoz — in  many 
respects  the  greatest  of  the  prophets  of  that  age — but  that  the  book  is 
the  work  of  at  least  two  men,  and  perhaps  of  many,  part  of  it  written 
by  Isaiah  himself,  and  the  other  part  by  another  man,  without  local 
habitation  or  name,  who  lived  somewhere,  near  the  end  of  the  period 
of  the  Babylonian  captivity  or  exile,  fully  a  century  after  the  death  of 
Isaiah  the  Prophet.  That  idea  concerning  the  duality  of  the  Book  of 
Isaiah  has  been  exploited,  and  there  are  learned  readers  of  the  Bible, 
who,  with  superior  air,  point  out  certain  chapters  of  the  Book  of  Isaiah 
which  they  say  were  not  written  by  Isaiah  the  Prophet,  but  by  this 
"deutero"  or  second  Isaiah.  So  he  is  called  in  view  of  even  the 
scholars'  ignorance  as  to  his  true  name  or  place  of  abode.  The  claim 
is  made  that  the  chapters  of  Isaiah  from  the  second  to  the  thirty-ninth 
inclusive,  were  really  written  by  Isaiah,  and  that  thence  on  to  the  end 
of  the  sixty-sixth  chapter,  the  last  in  the  book,  the  subject-matter  is 
not  the  writing  of  Isaiah  at  all,  but  that  of  another  man,  who  falsely 
ascribed  the  authorship  to  the  Prophet. 

Such  is  the  speculation  concerning  the  duality  of  authorship  in  that 
book ;  but,  once  started,  these  learned  investigators  have  undertaken 
to  dissect  Isaiah  and  to  spread  before  the  gaze  of  the  people  both  his 
gross  and  minute  anatomy,  to  the  extent  of  denying  his  authorship 
of  other  parts  of  chapters,  and  of  certain  verses,  singling  them  out 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


■  from  the  rest,  and  they  have  left  to  the  credit  of  the  Prophet  Isaiah  only 
twenty-four  and  a  half  chapters  of  his  book. 

BOOK  OF  ISAIAH  COMPLETE  BEFORE  600  B.  C. 

I  well  remember  when  the  positive  and  emphatic  denial  of  the  unity 
of  the  Book  of  Isaiah  was  put  forth  by  the  German  school  of 
theologians.  So  too  I  remember  the  many  questions  that  arose  among 
our  people  regarding  it,  not  a  few  of  such  questions  coming  to  me 
personally.  To  some  of  the  inquirers  I  said :  "Why  trouble  yourselves 
about  the  matter?  I  know  that  the  claim  is  false."  "Well,  have  you 
looked  into  it?"  I  was  asked.  "Sufficiently  so,"  I  replied,  "for  I  have 
received  the  testimony  promised  by  the  Lord  through  the  Prophet 
Moroni  concerning  the  integrity  and  genuineness  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon." 

In  the  Second  Book  of  Nephi,  I  find  transcriptions  of  several 
chapters  of  Isaiah,  that  is  to  say,  chapters  as  the  material  is  now 
divided  and  designated  in  our  Bible — twelve  chapters  at  least,  taken 
from  the  brass  plates  of  Laban,  which  plates  were  brought  from  Jeru- 
salem to  Lehi  in  the  wilderness,  as  you  know,  600  years  before  the  birth 
of  Christ.  Laban  was  a  rich  man.  He  could  afford  to  have  books 
made  of  metal  sheets,  while  others  perhaps  were  content  with  poorer 
and  less  enduring  material — just  as  some  people  can  now  afford  to  have 
de  luxe  editions  and  others  are  willing  to  accept  poorer  paper  and  bind- 
ings. But  on  those  plates  of  brass,  brought  from  'Jerusalem  in  the 
year  600  B.  C,  you  will  find  the  writings  of  Isaiah,  not  only  the  early 
chapters  allowed  to  Isaiah  by  modern  scholars,  but  the  later  chapters 
as  well,  which  are  ascribed  by  the  critics  to  the  second  or  false  Isaiah. 
Let  us  remember  that  we  have  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  transcriptions 
from  the  brass  plates  of  Laban,  comprising  the  record  of  Isaiah,  oft- 
times  word  for  word  the  same  as  the  translation  appearing  in  the  Bible, 
chapter  after  chapter.  The  entire  Book  of  Isaiah  must  have  been  in 
existence  at  that  time. 

Abinadi,  a  Book  of  Mormon  prophet,  quoted  from  what  is  now 
called  the  fifty-third  chapter  of  Isaiah  to  the  priests  of  Noah ;  and  the 
fifty-third  chapter  comes  in  that  portion  which  is  ascribed  to  the  false 
Isaiah ;  but  the  Nephites  had  it,  Lehi  had  it,  Laban  had  it  six  hundred 
years  before  Christ;  and  my  testimony  as  to  the  genuineness  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  is  sufficient  to  set  at  rights  with  me  any  question  as 
to  the  authorship  of  the  Book  of  Isaiah. 

INTEGRITY1-  OF  ISAIAH  AFFIRMED  BY  THE  RESURRECTED  LORD 

Would  you  have  higher  authority  than  that  of  mortal  prophets  of 
Book  of  Mormon  record?  Then  take  the  words  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
himself  when  he  appeared  a  resurrected  being  amongst  the  Nephites. 
In  preaching  to  them  he  quoted  one  entire  chapter  of  Isaiah — as  we  find 
recorded  in  the  twenty-second  chapter  of  Third  Nephi.  That  quotation 
by  our  Lord  is  practically  identical  with  the  fifty-fourth  chapter  of 
Isaiah.    I  speak  of  the  chapters  as  we  now  have  them.    I  repeat, 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


47 


Jesus  Christ  quoted  to  the  Nephites  almost  word  for  word  what  Isaiah 
had  written  in  what  we  now  know  as  the  fifty-fourth  chapter  of  his 
book.  Then  the  Lord  said :  "And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  search  these  things.  Yea,  a  commandment  I  give  unto  you 
that  ye  search  these  things  diligently ;  for  great  are  the  words  of  Isaiah." 

This  is  the  testimony  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  In  other  places, 
before  his  death,  he  had  cited  Isaiah.  While  in  the  flesh  he  quoted  from 
that  prophet,  and  from  the  latter  chapters  of  the  book,  which  modern 
critics  say  are  not  the  words  of  Isaiah.  By  way  of  further  illustration  read 
John  12  :38,  wherein  we  find  the  citation  from  the  fifty-third  chapter 
of  Isaiah,  which  modern 'critics  affirm  was  not  written  by  Isaiah  the 
Prophet;  and  in  the  fortieth  verse  of  the  same  chapter  appears  a 
citation  from  the  sixth  chapter  of  Isaiah,  which  part  the  critics  do 
ascribe  to  Isaiah  himself. 

But  be  it  remembered  that  the  critics  who  thus  seek  to  rend, 
mutilate  and  generally  discredit  the  Book  of  Isaiah  are  not  the  only  ones 
whose  voice  should  be  heard  in  so  important  a  matter.  They  have  no 
monopoly  of  the  truth,  and  when  they  die  wisdom  will  not  perish  with 
them.  A  great  institution  of  wide  influence,  The  Philosophical  Society 
of  Great  Britain,  otherwise  known  as  the  Victoria  Institute,  has  taken 
up  the  matter  of  the  unity  of  Isaiah,  and  has  pointed  out  the.  errors 
of  the  critics  with  respect  to  the  claim  of  duality,  thus  registering  its 
decision  that  the  Book  of  Isaiah  is  a  unit,  written  by  the  son  of  Amoz, 
the  prophet  whom  the  Lord  verily  loved. 

STUDENTS  AND  TEACHERS,  BE  CONSISTENT  AND  TRUE  TO  YOUR  TESTIMONY 

Regretfully  I  find  that  in  some  of  our  theological  classes,  and  in 
our  seminaries,  not  only  pupils  but  teachers  are  following  after  that 
false  lead  and  are  segregating  the  words  of  the  Book  of  Isaiah,  part 
as  being  his  and  other  portions  as  the  works  of  another.  Could  there 
be  a  grosser  inconsistency  than  that  of  proclaiming  a  belief  in  the 
divine  inconsistency  than  that  of  proclaiming  a  belief  in  the  divine 
authenticity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  while  teaching  or  believing  that 
the  Book  of  Isaiah  is  other  than  what  it  purports  to  be — the  writings  of 
Isaiah  the  son  of  Amoz  throughout? 

I  cannot  feel  those  in  our  Church  schools  and  seminaries  who  put 
the  theories  of  men  above  the  revelations  of  God  have  any  rightful 
place  among  the  teachers  in  our  theological  institutions,  whether  quo- 
rum classes,  seminaries,  or  Church  school  of  any  name  or  grade. 

DIFFERENCES  IN  STYLE  OF  WRITING 

On  what,  you  may  ask,  do  these  critics  base  this  segregation  of 
chapters  and  verses,  as  to  authorship,  in  the  Book  of  Isaiah?  On  two 
points:  First  comes  the  difference  in  style  of  composition.  The  only 
part  of  the  Book  of  Isaiah,  which  is  admitted  to  have  been  written  by 
the  prophet,  is  worded  generally  in  a  spirit  of  sadness;  the  tone  or 
color  is  that  of  depression,  dark  presage,  as  befits  the  subject.  The 
author  is  telling  of  the  calamities  that  will  come  upon  Israel  unless  they 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


repent  and  turn  from  their  wicked  ways.  The  picture  is  painted  in 
dark  colors.  The  latter  part  of  the  book,  from  the  fortieth  chapter  on, 
is  more  joyous,  much  more  cheerful  The  author  is  speaking  of  the 
triumph  that  shall  eventually  come  to  God's  people.  The  critics  say 
that  Isaiah  could  not  have  written  in  these  strikingly  different  styles. 
Do  you  find  any  modern  writer  telling  a  sorrowful  tale  in  happy  and 
exultant  words?  ;Ts  it  so  that  one  writer  cannot  inscribe  a  story  of 
grief  and  at  another  time  a  story  of  surpassing  joy?  Our  literature 
contradicts  the  thought !  Think  of  the  two  splendid  poems  by  Milton, 
his  twin  pictures,  "L' Allegro"  and  "II  Penseroso,"  known  to  most  of 
our  students  of  literature.  One  is  a  picture  of  pessimism,  pensiveness, 
and  gloom;  the  other  a  scene  of  optimism,  joy  and  gaiety.  There  could 
not  be  greater  contrast.  Milton  could  adapt  his  style  to  his  theme  and 
did  so  spendidly;  but  Isaiah,  preaching  and  speaking  under  the  in- 
spiration of  the  living-  God,  could  not  do  it,  according  to  the  critics  who 
have  assailed  his  work. 

BE  TRUE  TO  YOUR  TESTIMONY! 

To  my  younger  brothers  and  sisters,  to  my  student  friends,  I  say 
stand  by  your  testimony.  When  you  have  received  it  from  the  Lord, 
let  it  be  your  guide.  It  will  be  no  handicap  to  you  in  your  researches, 
your  studies,  your  explorations  and.  investigations.  It  will  not  detract 
from  your  reputation  for  learning,  if  you  deserve  any  such  reputation, 
provided  you  stand  by  the  truth.  As  you  know,  in  the  Book  of  Mormon 
we  have  that  wonderful  story  of  the  iron  rod  seen  by  Lehi.  To  those 
of  you  who  want  to  explore  I  say,  in  all  earnestness,  tie  fast  your  guide 
rope  to  the  rod  of  iron,  which  is  defined  as  the  Word  of  God.  Hold  to 
it  firmly,  and  you  may  venture  out  into  the  region  of  the  unexplored 
in  search  of  truth  if  you  will ;  but  do  not  loosen  your  hold  on  the 
rope ;  and  remember  that  there  is  very  little  safety  in  holding  to  a  rope 
that  is  loose  at  both  ends. 

By  following  this  course  I  have  had  many  satisfying  explanations 
of  questions  that  troubled  me.  Let  me  illustrate.  It  hast  been  the  general 
conception  that  certain  animals  known  to  have  existed  on  the  eastern 
hemisphere  were  not  to  be  found  on  the  western  hemisphere  in  Nephite 
times ;  but  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  I  find  record,  positive  and  simple, 
that  certain  of  these  animals  were  found  by  Lehi  and  his  colony.  Now, 
the  testimony  that  the  Lord  had  given  me  as  to  the  integrity  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  did  not  furnish  me  with  all  details  by  which  I  could 
confront  the  evidence  that  was  being  gathered,  which  was  all  of  a 
negative  character,  relating  to  the  alleged  non-existence  of  the  horse 
and  other  animals  upon  the  western  continent  at  the  time  indicated. 
Some  of  you  may  say  that  as  you  do  not  find,  ordinarily  at  least,  the 
bones  of  buffaloes  in  this  section,  that  buffaloes  never  lived  here.  But 
go  search  in  the  gravels  of  City  Creek,  and  you  may  be  lucky  enough  to 
find,  as  I  have  found,  the  bones  and  horns  of  buffaloes.  One  shred 
of  positive  evidence  will  nullify  a  volume  of  negative  assumption;  and 
the  declarations  made  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  if  not  already  verified, 
will  surely  be  verified  every  whit. 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 


4Q 


The  Book  of  Mormon  is  not  to  be  judged  according  to  the  canons 
of  criticism  applicable  to  any  book  professing  to  be  the  product  of  a 
modern  brain,  any  more  than  is  the  Holy  Bible  to  be  so  judged.  Each 
of  these  is  a  volume  of  scripture,  profusedly  giving  the  revealed  word 
of  God. 

REJECTION  OF  PROPHECY 

The  second  objection  made  by  the  critics  as  to  accepting  Isaiah  as 
a,  unit  is  based  on  the  prophet's  mention  of  King  Cyrus,  the  Persian,  a 
century  and  a  half  before  Cyrus  was  born.  As  King  Cyrus  is  named, 
the  record  containing  the  account  of  him,  says  the  critics,  could  not 
have  been  written  until  after  his  birth,  reign,  and  accomplishment  of  the 
divinely-appointed  work  ascribed  to  him  by  the  prophet ;  in  short,  they 
say,  that  account  must  have  been  written  by  somebody  who  lived  after 
Cyrus,  the  Persian  king.  Is  there  no  prophecy?  Are  there  no  prophets? 
And,  by  the  way,  is  Cyrus,  the  Persian,  the  only  one  whose  name  was 
given  before  birth?  What  of  Ishmael,  of  Isaac,  of  John  the  Baptist? 
What  of  the  Lord  Christ  himself?  Their  names  were  all  prescribed  and 
recorded  long  before  their  respective  births. 

Josephus,  the  Jewish  historian,  knew  nothing  of  the  alleged  duality 
of  the  Book  of  Isaiah ;  for  he  tells  us  that  Isaiah's  prophecy  was  pre- 
sented to  King  Cyrus,  named  therein,  and  "that  the  fact  of  his  own 
name  being  in  the  text  greatly  encouraged  him  to  carry  out  the  pre- 
diction." 

Some  of  us  are  very  apt  to  be  led  away  by  a  statement  because 
we  find  it  in  a  book  bearing  the  name  of  some  man  assumed  to  be  great. 
Let  us  read  in  a  more  discriminating  way,  and  seek  for  the  guidance  of 
the  Lord  as  we  read. 

I  bear  you  witness,  as  witness  has  been  borne  before,  and  I  speak 
it  to  you  with  all  the  assurance  that  the  Three  Witnesses  and  the  Eight 
Witnesses  put  their  testimony  on  record — that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is 
just  what  it  claims  to  be,  as  set  forth  by  the  ancient  historian  and 
prophet,  the  translation  of  whose  words  appears  on  the  title  page  of  the 
current  work.  There  is  nothing  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  be  explained 
away.  The  Book  teaches,  explains,  and  expounds ;  it  will  settle  many 
of  your  problems,  it  will  guide  you  in  the  path  of  truth.  I  know  of 
what  I  speak  for  I  have  found  it  to  be  a  reliable  guide.  Brethren  and 
sisters,  hold  fast  to  the  iron  rod.  May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  sacred  solo,  "Come  Ye  Blessed,"  was  sung  by  Miss  Rilla  Wilson. 
ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

THE  LAW  OF  TITHING 

My  subject  is  tithing.  I  can  scarcely  hope  to  contribute  a  single 
new  thought  to  this  matter,  but  I  have  felt  that  the  importance  of  it 
would  serve  to  challenge  your  interest,  and  I  have  hoped  that  some  good 
might  result  from  a  discussion  of  it.    For  some  things  that  I  may  say 


50 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


I  acknowledge  indebtedness  to  a  little  volume  which  has  recently  been 
placed  in  my  hands  called,  "Dealing  Squarely  With  God." 

THE  RELATIONSHIP  OF  MONEY  AND  PROPERTY  TO  CHRISTIANITY 

"You  can  usually  tell  the  sincerity  of  a  man's  interest  in  anything 
by  the  way  he  puts  his  money  into  it."  Indeed  it  has  been  said  that 
the  measure  of  a  man's  Christianity  may  be  determined  by  the  way 
he  gets  and  spends  his  money.  It  is  said  that  Jesus  had  more  to  say 
about  money  and  property,  strange  as  it  may  seem,  than  about  any  other 
subject.  In  sixteen  of  thirty-eight  of  his  parables  money  and  property 
are  made  his  theme. 

MONEY  AND  MYSELF 

After  all,  "Is  not  money  myself  ?  Money  is  the  medium  for  which 
men  exchange  their  abilities,  ingenuity  and  labor.  When  a  man  gives 
his  money  he  is  giving  himself,  and.  the  way  a  man  gives  his  money  is 
the  way  he  gives  himself.  Money  is  myself.  I  am  a  laboring  man,  we 
will  say,  and  can  wield  a  pickaxe  and  hire  myself  out  for  a  week  at 
two  dollars  a  day.  At  the  close  of  the  week  I  get  twelve  dollars  and  I 
put  it  in  my  pocket.  What  is  that  twelve  dollars?  It  is  a  week's  worth 
of  my  muscle  put  into  greenbacks  and  pocketed.  That  is,  I  have  got 
a  week's  worth  of  myself  in  my  pocket."  So,  when  a  man  gives  the 
money  that  he  has  earned,  he  is  giving  literally  of  himself.  Giving  is 
worship.  We  are  commanded  "not  to  appear  before  the  Lord  empty- 
handed."   Not  that  the  Lord  needs  the  gift,  but  that  man  needs  to  give. 

TEST  OF  FAITH  IS  GIVING 

The  first  principle  of  religion  is  recognition  of  God — faith.  The 
real  test  of  that  recognition  is  giving.  By  that  test  we  may  judge  with 
accuracy  the  religious  attitude  of  our  country.  In  a  recent  year  statistics 
reveal  the  fact  that  more  money  was  spent  for  face  powders  and  cos- 
metics ;  more  for  ice  cream,  soft  drinks  and  chewing  gum ;  more  for 
cigarettes,  respectively,  than  the  total  sum  expended  to  support  all 
churches.  May  that  not  be  a  criterion  by  which  we  may  safely  judge  the 
religious  attitude,  the  deep-set  religious  feeling  of  the  people  of  the 
country?    Do  not  the  words  of  Malachi  seem  pertinent: 

"Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have  robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  wherein 
have  we  robbed  thee?    In  tithes  and  offerings." 

SOVEREIGNTY  OF  GOD 

We  do  not  rob  God  by  withholding  our  gift  in  the  sense  that  we 
deprive  him  of  the  substance  of  earth.  He  always  has  that  substance, 
never  relinquishing  it.  But  we  rob  him  of  the  satisfaction  and  the  joy 
that  hq  must  feel  when  his  children  respond  to  his  mandates  and  open 
their  hearts  in  giving  and  in  worship.  Someone  has  said,  "God  never 
gives  a  quit-claim  deed,  he  only  grants  a  leasehold  estate,  and  he  who 
receives  the  lease  must  ever  return  the  rental." 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


51 


BOUGHT  WITH  A  PRICE 

Now  the  Lord  has  commanded  that  a  rental  be  returned  for  all 
the  substance  and  for  all  the  blessings  which  he  has  given  to  his  chil- 
dren. Christ  bought  us  with  a  price,  so  we  are  told  in  the  scripture. 
Is  it  to  be  thought  that  we  are  to  gain  salvation  without  a  price,  with- 
out giving  and  paying  for  it?  When  we  speak  of  paying  in  this  sense 
we  do  not  mean  that  pay  which  is  given  as  if  in  barter,  but  we  mean  the 
return  of  substance  which  is  committed  to  our  stewardship  and  which 
we  hold  in  trust  for  the  one  who  has  so  blessed  us. 

PARTNERSHIP  WITH  GOD 

I  like  "to  think  of  the  Lord  as  a  partner,  because  the  essence  of 
partnership  is  a  sharing  of  profits.  It  is  however  indispensable  in  a 
partnership  that  there  shall  also  be  a  sharing  of  the  burdens  of  the 
enterprise.  The  honor  and  the  satisfaction  that  come  to  one  in  realiza- 
tion that  he  lives  his  life  in  partnership  with  God  is  to  me  a  lofty  and 
exalting  thought.  One  cannot  hope  to  realize  the  profits  from  that 
venture  without  bearing  his  portion  of  the  expense — the  giving  which 
is  requisite. 

PAYMENT  OF  DUES 

The  Church  generally  is  probably  the  only  society  in  the  world 
where  a  man  is  not  suspended  from  membership  for  failure  to  pay 
his  dues.  I  think  that  in  substantially  every  other  organized  body  of 
men  for  social  or  material  gain  if  a  man  fails  to  pay  his  stipulated 
contribution  he  is  dropped.  While  the  Church  does  not  drop  from 
membership  those  who  fail  to  pay,  I  feel  very  certain  that  those  who 
fail  to  pay  their  stipulated  portion  are  automatically  dropped  from  the 
real  advantages  of  Church  participation  and  the  blessings  that  inure 
from  inactivity  within  it. 

THRIFT  HABITS 

"Prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open 
you  the  windows  of  heaven,"  speaking  to  those  whom  he  had  admonished 
to  pay  their  tithes  and  offerings.  What  comes  from  the  windows  of 
heaven?  Both  temporal  and  spiritual  blessings.  Temporal  blessings  accrue 
largely  from  the  cultivation  of  thrift  habits.  The  payment  of  tithes  of 
necessity  compels  an  orderly  arrangement  of  one's  affairs.  Accounting  is 
indispensable.  Budgeting  is  necessary.  Saving  follows.  All  of  which 
are  necessary  to  financial  success. 

ECONOMY 

It  was  Victor  Hugo  who  said :  "Above  all,  teach  the  children  to  save. 
Economy  is  the  sure  foundation  for  all  virtues."  I  heard  a  banker  say 
not  long  ago  that  if  tithing  served  no  other  purpose  than  to  secure  an 
orderly  adjustment  of  one's  affairs,  a  budgeting  of  the  income  and  ex- 
penses, it  would  be  invaluable.  I  feel  sure  that  he  who  pays  his  tithes 
not  only  has  a  better  conception  of  economy,  but  he  is  indulging  in  a 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


practice  which  will  bring  him  into  better  thrift  habits  and  enable  him  to 
go  forward  toward  financial  prosperity. 

SPIRITUAL  POWER 

Observance  of  tithing  brings  spiritual  power,  and  after  all  that 
to  me  is  the  main  thing.  Religion  is  more  than  mere  repose  or  re- 
laxation. It  is  positive  spiritual  exercise.  It  makes  for  the  growth 
of  the  soul,  it  cultivates  all  of  the  virtues.  So  one  who  is  serious  about 
religion  will  be  willing  to  give  to  it  the  things  which  are  necessary  and 
the  things  which  are  vital  to  himself. 

HONESTY 

One  who  is  honest  with  God  is  apt  to  be  honest  with  his  neighbor 
and  with  his  employer.  The  need  of  honesty  is  attested  everywhere  and 
particularly  in  our  own  communities  by  defalcations,  the  extent  and 
magnitude  of  which  make  us  all  blush  with  shame.  I  can  scarcely  con- 
ceive of  a  man  who  is  honest  with  his  God  not  being  honest  with  his 
fellow  man  ;  and  I  can  well  advocate  the  payment  of  our  tithing  in  a 
straightforward,  square,  honest  way  as  being  a  safe  foundation  on 
which  to  build  those  principles  of  integrity  that  shall  make  honest  men 
and  women  in  the  community. 

NEED  OF  THE  TITHE 

The  need  of  the  tithe  in  the  prosecution  of  God's  work  must  be 
apparent  to  all  of  you.  There  are  so  many  avenues  in  which  sums  may  be 
expended  to  promote  the  work  that  J  can  scarcely  take  time  to  mention 
them.  Not  long  ago  I  had  the  privilege  of  traveling  in  one  of  the 
missions  of  the  Church.  I  was  delighted  to  observe  that  in  many  rural 
sections  which  are  not  in  the  van  of  our  progress  and  civilization  the 
Church  has  caused  to  be  erected  inexpensive  but  beautiful  small  chapels. 
I  could  well  conceive  the  influence  that  these  chapels  might  exert  not 
only  in  the  furtherance  of  our  religious  views,  but  in  their  effect  on  the 
home  life,  the  community  life,  the  habits  and  practices  of  the  people. 
These  little  chapels  were  clean  and  orderly,  and  I  am  sure  they  will 
bring  an  inspiration  to  many  hundreds  of  home-owners  to  clean  up  their 
establishments,  to  live  in  an  orderly  and  a  more  beautiful  way.  If 
the  Church  were  endowed  with  sufficient  means  these  little  chapels  could 
be  extended  throughout  the  whole  land  and  would  bring  wonderfully 
beneficent  results. 

USE  OF  TITHING  FUNDS 

With  our  temples  large  sums  of  money  are  required.  Think  of 
the  great  work  of  redemption  there  performed.  Our  whole  missionary 
cause  is,  in  large  measure,  dependent  upon  the  financial  support  that 
comes  to  the  Church  and  also  that  which  comes  to  those  who  are  called 
on  missions.  There  is  a  very  definite  relation  between  the  finances  of 
our  people  and  the  propagation  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  There  is  a 
very  definite  relation  between  missionary  work  and  debt.    I  propose 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


53 


this  constructive  principle  of  the  Gospel  embraced  in  the  law  of  tithing 
as  a  solution  for  many  of  our  financial  problems,  as  a  foundation  upon 
which  men  may  build  to  bring  themselves  in  a  position  to  accept  the  calls 
that  come  to  them  to  spread  the  great  truths  which  are  committed  to  our 
custody. 

ENJOYMENT  OF  TITHE  PAYING 

Every  man  who  pays  his  tithing  should  enjoy  it.  The  Gospel  of 
Christ  is  a  gospel  of  enjoyment.  "Man  is  that  he  may  have  joy." 
When  one  pays  his  tithing  without  enjoyment  he  is  robbed  of  a  part 
of  the  blessing.  He  must  learn  to  give  cheerfully,  willingly  and  joy- 
fully, and  his  gift  will  be  blessed.  In  order  that  he  may  receive  more 
enjoyment  he  needs  to  pay  more  frequently.  Why  deprive  oneself  of 
the  joy  that  comes  from  this  voluntary  giving  until  the  end  of  the  year, 
when  by  payments  throughout  the  year  we  may  increase  and  enhance  not 
only  the  joy  of  our  giving  but  the  practice  of  it. 

MONTHLY  PAYMENTS 

I  have  found  it  to  be  a  very  difficult  problem  in  mathematics  to 
pay  one-tenth  out  of  one-twelfth.  I  commend  that  thought  to  those  who 
are  receiving  monthly  stipends  and  who  indulge  the  practice  of  paying 
their  tithing  at  the  close  of  the  year.  I  am  sure  you  will  find  it  very 
difficult  indeed  to  get  the  tenth  out  of  the  twelfth  if  your  tithing 
remains  for  payment  until  the  last  month.  I  can  heartily  recommend 
to  you  the  payment  of  your  tithes  as  your  funds  come  into  your  hands, 
not  only  because  it  will  be  easier,  but  because  greater  blessings  will 
inure  to  you. 

CONSECRATION 

We  consecrate  our  lives  in  this  Church  to  the  advancement  of  the 
cause  of  God.  There  is  no  higher  evidence  of  that  consecration  than 
this  giving  which  has  been  enjoined  upon  us  by  the  Lord.  "He  who 
gives  himself  with  his  gift  feeds  three — himself,  his  hungering  neighbor 
and  me."  So  the  law  of  tithing  is  the  epitome  of  the  Gospel.  It  is 
genuine  worship  and  true  recognition  of  the  sovereignty  of  God.  It  is 
real  consecration,  the  giving  of  the  muscle  and  energy  of  life  to  the 
cause ;  and  it  begets  the  abundant  life  of  love  and  service  for  which  the 
Christ  came.  It  is  a  measurement  of  true  religion.  By  the  extent  of 
its  observance  every  man  may  determine  for  himself  the  vitality  of  his 
own  faith  and  love  of  God.  A  prophet  has  said,  "The  tenth  shall  be  holy 
unto  the  Lord."  It  will  be  holy  unto  you,  men  and  women  of  Israel,  if 
you  give  it  lovingly,  joyfully,  willingly,  to  the  great  cause.  God  help 
us  so  to  do,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Miss  Bertha  Sessions  rendered  a  sacred  solo  entitled  'Tmmortalis." 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

I  trust  that  I  may  be  led  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  say  something 
this  afternoon  that  will  be  profitable. 

A  CRITICAL  TIME 

One  of  our  speakers  yesterday  said  that  we  were  living  in  a  very 
critical  time.  For  many  years  we  have  been  living  in  peace  and  com- 
parative prosperity,  we  have  had  no  contentions  with  our  neighbors ; 
on  the  surface  at  least  their  feelings  have  been  kindly,  and  apparently 
everything  has  been  in  the  nature  of  peace  and  prosperity.  But  these 
are  the  times  when  Latter-day  Saints  should  take  heed  concerning  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  and  desire  to  keep  his  commandments  with 
full  purpose  of  heart,  more  perhaps  than  at  any  other  time. 

The  Lord  said  in  a  revelation  given  in  the  early  days  of  the  Church : 

"And  I  now  give  unto  you  a  commandment  to  beware  concerning  your- 
selves, to  give  diligent  heed  to  the  words  of  eternal  life. 

"Fori  ye  shall  live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God." 

INGRATITUDE  IN  TIMES  OF  PROSPERITY 

In  the  days  of  our  prosperity,  when  we  are  at  peace,  when  we  have 
the  luxuries  as  well  as  the  necessities  of  life,  there  may  be  a  tendency 
on  our  part  to  forget  the  Lord.  This  seems  to  be  a  failing  of  humanity. 
We  are  taught  this  lesson  all  down  through  the  ages  so  far  as  the  people 
of  the  Lord  are  concerned,  as  we  read  of  them  in  the  Holy  Scriptures. 
|In  Palestine  as  well  as  upon  this  continent,  when  the  people  were 
prospered  they  forgot  the  Lord.  They  turned  from  him  and  felt  self- 
sufficient  rather  than  to  feel  the  spirit  of  humility  and  to  put  faith  in 
the  Lord,  and  to  thank  him  for  his  blessings. 

The  crime  of  ingratitude  is  one  of  the  most  prevalent  and  I  might 
say  at  the  same  time  one  of  the  greatest  with  which  mankind  is  afflicted. 
The  more  the  Lord  blesses  us  the  less  we  love  him.  That  is  the  way  men 
show  their  gratitude  unto  the  Lord  for  his  mercies  and  his  blessings 
towards  them. 

THE  WORDS  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

I  recommend  to  you,  I  shall  not  take  time  to  refer  further  to  it. 
the  words  of  King  Benjamin  to  his  people  as  he  gathered  them  around 
him,  and  taught  them  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  You  will 
find  these  things  recorded  in  the  first  chapters  of  the  book  of  Mosiah 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  want  to  read,  because  I  think  these  words  are  better  than  any 
that  I  might  give  you,  from  the  12th  chapter  of  the  Book  of  Helaman. 
These  words,  it  would  appear,  were  written  by  Mormon  after  record- 
ing some  of  the  conflicts  between  the  Nephites  and  the  Lamanites  and 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


55 


the  destruction  which  came  upon  the  people  because  they  had  forsaken 
the  Lord : 

"And  thus  we  can 'behold  how  false,  and  also  the  unsteadiness  of  the 
hearts  of  the  children  of  men;  yea,  we  can  see  that  the  Lord  in  his  great  in- 
finite goodness  doth  bless  and  prosper  those  who  put  their  trust  in  him. 

"Yea,  and  we  may  see  at  the  very  time  when  he  doth  prosper  his  people, 
yea,  in  the  increase  of  their  fields,  their  flocks  and  their  herds,  and  in  gold, 
and  in  silver,  and  in  all  manner  of  precious  things  of  every  kind  and  art; 
sparing  their  lives  and  delivering  them  out  of  the  hands  of  their  enemies; 
softening  the  hearts  of  their  enemies  that  they  should  not  declare  war  against 
them;  yea,  and  in  fine,  doing  all  things  for  the  welfare  and  happiness  of  his 
people;  yea,  then  is  the  time  that  they  do  harden  their  hearts,  and  do  forget 
the  Lord  their  God,  and  do  trample  under  their  feet  the  Holy  One — yea, 
and  this  because  of  their  ease,  and  their  exceedingly  great  prosperity. 

"And  thus  we  see  that  except  the  Lord  doth  chasten  his  people  with 
many  afflictions,  yea,  except  he  doth  visit  them  with  death  and  with  terror, 
and  with  famine  and  with  all  manner  of  pestilence,  they  will  not  remember 
him. 

"O,  how  foolish,  and  how  vain,  and  how  evil,  and  devilish,  and  how 
quick  to  do  iniquity,  and  how  slow  to  do  good,  are  the  children  of  men; 
yea,  how  quick  to  hearken  unto  the  words  of  the  evil  one,  and  to  set  their 
hearts'  upon  the  vain  things  of  the  world! 

"Yea,  how  quick  to  be  lifted  up  in  pride;  yea,  how  quick  to  boast,  and 
do  all  manner  of  that  which  is  iniquity;  and  how  slow  are  they  to  remember 
the  Lord  their  God,  and  to  give  ear  unto  his  counsels,  yea,  how  slow  to  walk 
in  wisdom's  paths! 

"Behold,  they  do  not  desire  that  the  Lord  their  God,  who  hath  created 
them,  should  rule/  and  reign  over  them;  notwithstanding  his  great  goodness 
and  his  mercy  towards-  them,  they  do  set  at  naught  his  counsels,  and  they 
will  not  that  he  should  be  their  guide. 

"O,  how  great  is  the  nothingness  of  the  children  of  men;  yea,  even  they 
are  less  than  the  dust  of  the  earth. 

"For  behold,  the  dust  of  the  earth  moveth  hither  and  thither,  to  the 
dividing  asunder,  at  the  command  of  our  great  and  everlasting  God." 

ALL  THINGS  OBEDIENT  EXCEPT  MAN 

Now  this  prophet  did  not  mean  to  say  that  the  Lord  has  greater 
concern  for  and  loves  the  dust  of  the  earth  more  than  he  does  his  chil- 
dren. He  did  not  mean  to  say  that  we,  the  children  of  the  Lord,  in 
his  sight  are  considered  less  than  the  dust  of  the  earth.  The  point  he  is 
making  is  that  the  dust  of  the  earth  is  obedient.  It  moveth  hither -and 
thither  at  the  command  of  the  Lord.  All  things  are  in  harmony  with 
his  laws.  Everything  in  the  universe  obeys  the  law  given  unto  it,  so  far 
as  I  know,  except  man.  Everywhere  you  look  you  find  law  and  order, 
the  elements  obeying  the  law  given  to  them,  true  to  their  calling.  But 
man  rebels,  and  in  this  thing  man  is  less  than  the  dust  of  the  earth 
because  he  rejects  the  counsels  of  the  Lord,  and  the  greater  the  bless- 
ings he  receives,  (this  because  of  his  agency),  the  more  willingly  does 
he  turn  from  the  source  of  those  blessings,  feeling  self-sufficient,  and 
puts  his  faith  and  his  trust  in  the  arm  of  flesh  rather  than  in  God. 

KEEP  THE  COMMANDMENTS 

I  want  to  endorse  the  remarks  that  were  made  here  yesterday, 
wherein  we  were  instructed  and  reminded  to  keep  the  commandments  of 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  Lord,  to  observe  the  Sabbath  day,  to  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  to 
pray,  to  attend  to  the  various  duties  that  are  given  unto  us  as  members 
of  the  Church  and  men  holding  the  priesthood ;  to  live,  in  other  words, 
in  accordance  with  every  word  that  proceeds  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God. 

NECESSITY  OF  CONSTANT  INSTRUCTIONS  AND  GUIDANCE 

Why  should  we  be  under  the  necessity  constantly  of  being  reminded 
of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  of  the  law  of  tithing,  the  duty  that  is  upon  us 
to  pray  and  thank  our  Father  in  heaven  for  his  many  blessings?  Yet 
we  find  that  it  is  necessary  constantly  to  call  the  attention  of  the  saints 
to  these  things,  to  instruct  them,  to  guide  them,  so  that  we  may  be 
kept  always  in  the  path  of  duty  and  righteousness.  Otherwise  they 
fall  into  error.  What  a  wonderful  thing  it  is  the  Lord  has  given  us 
by  revelation,  this  privilege  of  meeting  together  in  conference  as  we 
are  now,  and  from  time  to  time  in  the  stake  conferences  and  in  the 
various  other  meetings,  to  be  instructed!  In  these  meetings  we  are 
taught  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  and  admonished  when  it  is  neces- 
sary. If  we  were  not  it  would  only  be  a  short  time  until  we  would  find 
the  different  branches  of  the  Church  and  various  stakes  falling  apart 
and  doing  things  in  different  ways,  and  to  some  extent  at  least  falling 
from  grace,  failing  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  to  walk 
in  his  righteousness.  The  Lord  has  provided  ample  means  by  which  we 
may  be  instructed  and  taught,  that  we  may  be  one  in  all  things. 

BLESSINGS  CONTINGENT  UPON  OBEDIENCE 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  this  time  of  peace — I  do  not 
know  how  long  it  will  last — in  this  day  of  prosperity,  let  us  be  humble 
and  remember  the  Lord  ana!  keep  his  commandments  and  feel  that  the 
dangers  before  us  are  far  greater  than  they  are  in  the  days  of  trial  and 
tribulation.  Do*  not  think  for  a  moment  that  the  days  of  trial  are  over. 
They  are  not.  If  we  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  we  shall 
prosper,  we  shall  be  blessed ;  the  plagues,  the  calamities  that  have  been 
promised  will  be  poured  out  upon  the  peoples  of  the  earth  and  we 
shall  escape  them,  yea,  they  shall  pass  us  by.  But  remember  the  Lord 
says  if  we  fail  to  keep  his  word,  if  we  walk  in  the  ways  of  the  world, 
they  will  not  passj  us  by,  but  we  shall  be  visited  with  floods  and  with 
fire,  with  sword  and  with  plague  and  destruction.  We  may  escape  these 
things  through  faithfulness.  Israel  of  old  might  have  escaped  through 
faithfulness,  but  they  refused  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
and  they  were  not  saved.  Therefore  I  plead  with  you:  pay  your 
tithing,  keep  the  <Word  of  Wisdom,  pray  unto  the  Lord,  honor 
him  in  all  things  by  keeping  his  commandments,  that  his  blessings  may- 
be poured  out  and  that  we  may  receive  them  in  abundance,  and  in 
humility  we  may  walk  before  him  and  be  entitled  not  only  to  the  bless- 
ings that  come  to  us  in  this  mortal  life,  but  to  the  blessings  of  eternal 
life,  the  greatest  gift  of  God.  So  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  WJLLIAM  R.  SLOAN 


57 


ELDER  WILLIAM  R.  SLOAN 

President  of  the  Northzvestern  States  Mission 

I  have  enjoyed  the  spirit  of  this  conference.  I  am  happy  to  repre- 
sent before  you  the  work  as  it  is  progressing  in  the  Northwestern 
States  mission. 

We  sang  as  the  second  hymn  yesterday  morning,  "Guide  us,  O 
Thou  great  Jehovah,  Guide  us  to  the  Promised  land."  Then,  as  we  sang 
the  second  stanza :  "Open,  Jesus,  Zion's  fountains,  Let  her  richest  bless- 
ings come,"  I  could  not  help  but  feel,  surely  the  blessings  and  the  rich 
blessings  have  come  to  this  people. 

A  year  and  a  half  ago,  in  holding  conferences  with  my  missionaries, 
I  asked  these  questions  of  each  group :  "What  has  your  mission  done 
for  you?  What  have  you  done  for  the  mission?"  One  elder  re- 
ported: "President  Sloan,  I  sat  down  the  other  evening  and  1  wrote 
page  upon  page  of  the  things  that  my  mission  has  done  for  me.  Then," 
he  said,  "when  I  tried  to  write :  'What  have  I  done  for  the  mission  ?'  I 
could  scarcely  fill  one  page."  If  that  question  were  put  to  us  indi- 
vidually: "What  has  the  Church  done  for  us?"  I  wonder  if  the  richer 
blessings,  many  of  them,  have  not  come.  I  see  before  me  these  wonderful 
volumes,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price ;  I  see  a  great  organization  with  ten  hundred  eighty-four 
wards,  with  one  hundred  one  stakes  of  Zion.  I  see  a  great  growth  of 
buildings,  chapels,  schools,  and  seminaries  throughout  all  the  land,  an 
evidence  of  God's  blessings  to  us  as  his  children.  Brethren  and  sisters, 
what  are  we  doing  for  the  Church? 

A  few  months  ago,  one  of  our  splendid  good  girls  in  Portland, 
working  for  a  large  firm,  received  her  pay-check  and  as  she  wa| 
returning  home  she  lost  her  hand-bag.  Upon  reaching  her  home  she  dis- 
covered the  loss.  It  contained  her  money,  the  earnings  of  a  mouth's 
work.  She  felt  very  sorrowful  about  it,  but  advertised  in  the  paper.  Two 
or  three  days  later  the  telephone  rang.  She  answered  the  phone, 
and  a  lady  at  the  other  end  asked  her  name,  so  on  and  so  forth. 
She  had  found  her  hand-bag.  She  said :  "As  I  looked  through  it  I 
found  your  money  and  I  found  receipts,  and  among  other  receipts 
I  found  one  for  tithing  to  your  Church.  I  thought  Tf  that  little  girl 
is  honest  enough  to  pay  her  tithing,  I  can't  keep  this  money  form  her.'  " 
She  said  further:  "I  had  made  up  my  mind  that  I  would  not  return  the 
purse,  but  I  am  returning  it  to  you  now,  happily." 

May  I  be  personal  just  a  minute  and  recount  an  experience  of  my 
own.  On  the  19th  of  October,  1926,  I  was  invited  into  the  office  of 
President  Grant  and  his  counselors.  I  don't  know  if  you  may  have  had 
that  experience,  but  to  me  it  was  new.  I  shall  never  be  able  to  recount 
my  feelings  as  T  went  and  sat  in  the  presence  of  these  wonderful,  good 
men.  When  the  presidency  had  revealed  to  me  the  purpose  for  which 
they  had  invited  me  there,  that  it  was  to  ask  me  to  preside  over  a  mission, 
I  can  never  describe  my  feelings.  Then  I  returned  home,  and  I  did  so 
in  tears,  all  the  way.   That  night  when  we  retired,  I  lay  in  my  bed  not 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


able  to  close  my  eyes  in  sleep.  Sleep  had  vanished,  and  I  wrestled 
with  the  Lord,  in  tears,  all  night.  I  pleaded  with  the  Father,  "What 
can  I,  a  weak  mortal,  do  in  such  a  mission  as  that?"  The  prayer  was 
answered,  and  a  voice  spoke  to  me  as  I  am  speaking  to  you :  "The  Book 
of  Mormon."    My  prayer  was  answered. 

A  month  and  a  half  later  I  went  to  the  mission.  When  I  heard  the 
reports  read  in  conference  at  Seattle  on  the  19th  of  December  of  that 
year,  I  found  that  we  had  distributed  1850  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon. President  Young  said:  "President  Sloan,  would  you  like  to 
speak  a  few  minutes  ?"  I  said,  "Yes."  I  arose.  The  Spirit  came,  and 
I  told  the  missionaries  that  for  1927  we  would  expect  18,000  copies  of 
that  book  distributed  in  the  mission.  I  shall  never  forget  the  reaction 
as  it  came  to  me.  It  seemed  to  me  as  if  I  sat  alone,  except  for  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  as  it  had  been  given.  At  the  end  of  the  year, 
brethren  and  sisters,  we  had  succeeded,  the  Lord  had  blessed  us ;  and  in 
1928,  I  am  happy  to  tell  you,  our  mission  distributed"  approximately 
21,000  copies  of  that  wonderful  book.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  there 
is  no  book  in  all  the  world  from  which  a  man  or  woman  can  gain  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  more  than  by  reading  that  wonderful  volume. 

My  time  is  up.  I  am  happy  to  report  and  to  bring  the  love  and 
confidence  of  the  missionaries  of  the  Northwestern  States.  They  are  a 
nohle,  sweet,  wonderful  group  of  young  men  and  women.  They  are 
working  hard.  I  bring  you  this  report,  fathers  and  mothers,  from  the 
mission. 

When  President  George  F.  Richards  was  in  Portland,  laying  the 
corner  stone  of  our  new  chapel,  we  asked  Doctor  Irvine,  the  blind  editor 
of  the  Portland  Journal,  to  be  one  of  our  speakers.  That  most  wonderful 
man  stood  there  and  paid  tribute  to  this  Church  and  to  our  achieve- 
ments. In  his  closing  remarks  this  is  what  he  said :  "Your  creed,  my 
freinds,  is  a  gentle,  sweet,  lovable  creed.  Your  doctrines  are  beautiful 
as  if  they  came  from  the  hand  of  God."  So  I  bear  testimony  that  this 
work  is  not  of  man,  but  it  is  of  God,  and  it  will  succeed  through  his 
help.    For  this  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 

Former  President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

Dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  stand  before  you  as  a  recently-released 
president  of  the  Eastern  States  mission.  :I  have  been  succeeded  by 
President  James  FI.  Moyle  whom  you  heard  yesterday.  I  was  appointed 
to  succeed  President  B.  H.  Roberts  who  had  filled  that  mission  so 
wonderfully  well.  I  report  to  you  that  when  I  left  the  mission  it  was 
in  excellent  condition.  We  have  done  wonderfully  well.  In  that  mission 
we  have  baptized  about  two  hundred  non-Mormons  during  each  year, 
in  addition  to  many  of  the  children  of  the  saints. 

The  Lord  has  not  blessed  me  with  any  ability  to  make  great 
speeches,  hut  I  had  an  excellent  corps  of  young  men  and  young  women 
to  do  that  for  me.    I  just  traveled  around  amongst  them  and  heard  of 


ELDER  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP 


59 


our  progress  and  of  the  little  things  of  the  Gospel  %  used  to  talk  to 
them  about.  I  talked  to  them  about  the  value  of  prayer,  and  I  am  sure 
that  I  have  never  seen  greater  evidences  of  improvement  in  that  direction 
than  I  did  during  my  time  in  the  Eastern  States  mission.  I  talked  to 
them  about  observing  the  Sabbath  day,  and  I  am  confident  that  among 
the  Latter-day  Saints  of  that  mission  there  was  a  strict  observance  of 
the  Lord's  Day.  I  talked  to  them  about  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
and  T  want  to  say  to  you  that  in  my  opinion  that  word  was  thoroughly 
observed  in  the  Eastern  States  mission.  I  talked  to  the  missionaries 
about  their  loyalty  and  faithfulness,  and  it  has  been  a  great  satisfaction 
to  me  to  find  that  the  testimony  of  the  Gospel  has  come  to  those  young 
missionaries  after  they  have  been  in  the  mission  a  comparatively  short 
time. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  fathers  and  mothers  that  those  missionaries, 
those  boys  and  those  girls,  and  those  older  men  who  came  as  short 
term  missionaries  have  done  a  wonderfully  fine  work.  They  thoroughly 
believed  in  the  Gospel,  and  they  had  a  testimony  of  it,  after  they  had 
been  in  the  mission  a  very  short  time.  Fortunately  most  of  the  young 
people  that  came  into  the  mission  had  been  good  Sunday  School  people. 
They  had  been  good  model  people,  but  they  knew  comparatively  little 
about  the  Gospel  of  Christ.  Yet,  by  some  miracle  the  Lord  permitted 
his  Spirit  to  come  upon  them,  and  I  am  sure  that  in  ninety-seven  cases, 
if  not  more,  out  of  every  hundred,  within  one  year  they  could  stand 
up  and  preach  the  Gospel,  knowingly. 

I  talked  to  them  about  the  law  of  tithing,  and  it  is  observed  in  the  • 
Eastern  States  mission  averagely  better  than  it  is  in  Zion.  The  Saints 
in  the  Eastern  States  mission  are  paying  a  higher  percentage  of  tithing 
than  they  are  anywhere  in  the  Church  in  Zion.  To  me  the.  law  of 
tithing  is  one  of  the  great  things  of  the  Church.  It  is  not  a  recom- 
mendation ;  it  is  a  command.  I  find  that  ninety  per  cent  of  what  I  am 
permitted  to  receive  is  quite  sufficient  for  me.  There  is  not  one  of  you 
who  actually  receives  only  ninety  per  cent  of  what  he  is  earning  that 
is  not  wholly  satisfied  That  other  tenth  does  not  belong  to  you ;  it 
belongs  to  the  Lord.    I  taught  that  to  the  saints  there. 

We  have  a  number  of  Germans  coming  into  New  York  and  into 
Brooklyn,  hundreds  of  them.  They  constitute  more  than  sixty  per  cent 
of  the  saints  in  Brooklyn,  and  about  forty  per  cent  of  the  saints  in 
New  York.  They  have  done  wonderfully  well.  Their  little  tithing 
comes  in  each  Saturday  night.  They  go  and  deliver  it  to  their  branch 
president,  and  he  gives  them  their  receipt.  T  cannot  think  of  a  thousand 
people  among  the  many  thousands  we  have  in  that  mission  who  are  not 
full  tithe-payers.  I  honor  them,  and  I  glory  in  it.  I  have  found  that 
the  Lord  has  blessed  me  each  year  with  just  a  little  bit  more^  because 
I  was  willing  to  observe  that  law.  I  have  told  that  to  the  saints,  and 
they  believed  it. 

I  am  thankful  to  the  First  Presidency  for  calling  me  on  a  mission, 
and  I  am  indeed  thankful  to  the  Lord  that!  I  was  called  on'  a  mission. 
It  has  given  me  a  greater  insight  into  the  work  of  the  missionaries  and 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


into  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  than  I  could  have  received  in  any 
other  way.  I  am  delighted  to  have  been  on  a  mission.  I  feel  sure  that 
the  testimony  that  I  have  will  continue  with  me  during  the  few  years 
that  I  shall  yet  live.  I  am  glad  that  I  have  had  this  opportunity.  It 
will  be  a  heritage  to  my  sons,  to  know  that  their  father  has  been  on  a 
mission,  as  they  have  been  on  missions,  and  that  we  have  done  our 
part  in  furthering  the  work  of  the  Lord.  God  grant  that  the  spirit  of 
serving  God  may  always  be  strong  in  the  hearts  of  the  saints,  that 
there  may  always  be  a  desire  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  they  shall 
be  blessed.    God  grant  us  this  spirit,  for  Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

ELDER  ERNEST  C.  ROSSITER 

Former  President  of  the  French  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  kind  friends,  I  feel  honored,  and  I 
am  indeed  happy  this  morning  in  being  called  to  the  stand  to  report 
on  my  labors  during  the  time  that  I  was  in  the  French  mission,  and 
to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  this  Gospel. 

I  am  happy  to  see  such  a  vast  congregation  this  morning,  the  largest 
that  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  address,  il  assure  you,  that  I  feel  my 
weakness  and  pray  that  God  will  be  merciful  to  me  in  the  few  remarks 
which  I  may  have  to  make  this  morning. 

I  feel  that  it  is  an  honor  to  be  a  member  of  this  Church,  and 
especially  so,  to  be  able  to  go  out  into  the  world  and  preach  unto  the 
people,  many  thousands  of  whom  are  seeking  after  the  truth  which  we 
have  to  give  unto  them. 

The  French  mission  today  is  in  a  very  prosperous  condition.  We 
are  getting  into  the  hearts  of  the  real  French  people.  I  am  happy  to 
tell  you  that  we  are  not  only  converting  the  Protestants  among  the 
French,  but  also  a  great  many  of  the  devout  Catholic  people,  many 
of  them  very  well  educated.  The  First  Presidency  have  been  very  kind 
to  us  in  giving  us  a  greater  number  of  missionaries  the  last  three  years, 
which  has  enabled  us  to  expand  into  France.  Fleretofore  our  efforts 
have  been  confined  to  Belgium  and  Swiss  Roman.  There  are  in  France 
a  great  many  people  who  have  the  blood  of  Israel  in  their  veins.  We 
feel  that  we  are  developing  a  very  splendid  mission  in  that  country, 
and  that  it  will  be  only  a  few  years  hence  when  we  will  be  able  to  make 
a  very  splendid  showing  and  that  the  French  mission  will  come  to  the 
fore,  as  have  all  the  other  European'  missions.  At  the  time  I  left  the 
mission  field  we  had  about  fifty-three  missionaries,  and  all  of  them 
are  real  missionaries,  doing  a  splendid  work,  learning  the  language  in  a 
remarkable  way.  That  has  been  one  of  our  tasks,  to  persuade  our  mis- 
sionaries to  learn  the  French;  language  and  speak  it  to  the  people  in  an 
intelligent  and  pleasing  way  to  them,  because  in  that  way  we  are  able 
to  please  the  people  and  make  friends  of  them. 

France  has  produced  some  very  splendid  people  throughout  the 
world  in  the  Protestant  field  as  well  as  in  the  Catholic  field.  The 


ELDER  ERNEST  C.  ROSSITER 


61 


Huguenots  came  from  France  largely,  went  into  Switzerland,  some  into 
the  new  world,  and  thousands  of  them  have  accepted  the  Gospel.  The 
Normans  who  were  in  Northern  France,  went  to  England,  many  of 
them ;  and  it  is  from  that  class  of  people  that  my  family  has  come.  I 
am  therefore  very  much  interested  in  the  French  people,  because  I  have 
French  blood  in  my  veins. 

During  the  last  three  years  I  believe  we  have  made  more  progress 
in  the  French  mission  than  in  many  years  previous,  from  the  fact  that 
we  have  had  more  opportunity  to  reach  out  among  the  French  people. 
We  have  opened  up  new  ways  and  means  to  find  them,  preaching  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  that  wonderful  book  which  was  so  well  explained 
to  you  by  Doctor  Talmage  this  morning.  I  was  very  much  interested 
in  his  remarks.  That  is  getting  into  the  hearts  of  the  French  people. 
The  stereoptican  views  have  attracted  thousands  of  people  to  our 
meetings.  That  is  one  means  we  have  of  showing  people  the  real 
facts  about  Salt  Lake  and  Zion.  The  French  people  have  always  had 
an  erroneous  opinion  of  our  people,  having  heard'  only  of  the  evil,  the 
bad  side,  the  false  reports.  Only  recently  we  held  a  mission  presidents' 
conference  in  Paris,  which  resulted  in  a  vast  amount  of  good.  The 
newspapers  opened  up  their  columns  to  fair  publication  of  our  doctrines, 
which  resulted  in  a  wider  investigation,  and  that  publication  was  spread 
throughout  the  world.  We  received  many  inquiries  through  letters  and 
personal  inquiries  from  people  asking  how  they  could  become  members 
of  the  Church.  We  feel  that  the  work  is  just  getting  a  fair  start  among 
the  French  people.  Your  missionaries  who  have  been  called  to  that 
land  can  consider  themselves  blessed  and  honored.  There  is  no  greater 
opportunity  for  any  missionary  than  can  come  to  him  through  a  call  to 
the  French  mission.  The  progress,  the  advancement,  the  education,  the 
learning  of  a  modern  language,  for  which  he  can  get  credit  in  his 
school,  and  the  personal  development  which  comes  to  him,  are  wonderful 
things.  The  fathers  and  mothers  of  the  boys  in  the  French  mission  can 
consider  themselves  blessed  through  having  their  sons  in  that  mission 
at  the  present  time. 

T  wish  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  work.  I  know, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  God  lives  and  that  he  is  a  remunerator 
of  all  those  who  diligently  seek  him.  I  do  know  that  this  Gospel  is 
true.  God  has  revealed  it  to  me  through  his  Holy  Spirit.  I  can  truth- 
fully say  that  I  have  a  burning  testimony  within  my  bosom  of  this 
great  work  and  only  hope  that  I  may  be  able  to  retain  that  testimony 
to  the  end  of  my  days,  when  I  shall  again  see  my  Maker,  meet  him 
face  to  face  and  talk  with  him.  I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  our 
present  presidency,  the  prophets  of  this  Church,  are  indeed  inspired  to 
carry  on  this  work,  and  I  stand  ready  at  any  time  to  serve  them  as  best 
I  can,  because  in  serving  I  know  that  great  blessings  come  to  those  who 
will  do  it  willingly.  I  desire  to  continue  on  in  this  work  the  best  I  know 
how.  May  God  bless  us  all  in  our  endeavors  to  serve  him,  I  ask  it 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

'I  wish  to  announce  that  Brother  Rossiter  who  has  just  spoken  to 
you  is  forty-six  years  of  age,  and  that  he  has  spent  thirteen  years  of 
his  life  as  a  missionary,  or  over  twenty-five  per  cent  of  his  life  thus 
far.  If  you  will  deduct  the  years  of  his  childhood  and  teens  you  will 
find  that  the  greater  portion  of  his  life  has  been  given  to  proclaiming 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

I  am  convinced  that  service  of  this  kind  is  one  of  the  strongest 
testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  this  work  that  can  come  to  a  thoughtful 
man.  It  seems  to  me  that  nothing  short  of  an  abiding  knowledge  of  the 
divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  would  cause  a  man  to 
give  so  much  of  his  life's  labor — giving  the  very  best  that  is  in  him — 
for  the  spread  of  the  truth. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

I  am  very  grateful  that  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  be  called  into 
the  ministry  and  particularly  into  the  mission  field,  and  for  the  expe- 
rience of  associating  with  the  saints  who  reside  in  the  branches  scattered 
throughout  the  missions,  and  with  the  elders  and  sisters  who  have  been 
called  there  as  missionaries.  We  are  trying  to  appreciate  the  privileges 
Gospel  to  the  people  of  the  Western  States  district.  We  rely  upon 
to  make  ourselves  feel  and  understand  that  we  are  instruments — 
poorly  prepared  though  we  may  be — through  which  our  heavenly 
Father  expects  to  carry  on  the  work  of  bringing  the  message  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  people  of  the.  Western  States  District.  We  rely  upon 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  rather  than  upon  our  own  intelligence  or 
learning.  We  have  learned  and  are  learning  by  experience,  that  if  we 
may  enjoy  the  association  of  the  Holy  Ghost  and  its  inspiration  and 
guidance  we  will  be  more  successful  than  if  we  attempt  to  rely  upon 
ourselves.  If  the  Lord  is  to  perform  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder, 
which  he  is  doing,  it  will  have  to  be  performed  through  the  material 
that  is  available ;  and  if  the  material  available  is  willing  to  serve,  willing 
to  try  to  do  what  the  Lord  wants  us  to  do  by  his  great  power  and 
wisdom,  he  will  have  no  great  difficulty  in  performing  the  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder. 

The  Lord  has  blessed  us  in  the  Western  States  mission.  We  are 
meeting  with  success  in  our  labors.  Our  tithing  has  increased  this  year 
over  last  year,  up  to  the  end  of  this  first  quarter,  even  as  it  did  last 
year  over  the  previous  year.  We  are  able  to,  and  are  distributing  more 
pamphlets  and  selling  and  loaning  more  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
than  we  did  last  year.  We  are  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  is 
given  us  to  do  it. 

We  have  little  prejudice  to  contend  with.  Generally  speaking,  the 
people  receive  us  with  great  kindness,  very  little  abuse.  I  was  thinking  of 
what  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  stated  this  morning  with  reference 


ELDER  ELLAS  S.  WOODRUFF 


63 


to  that.  I  have  wondered  why  we  meet  with  so  little  opposition  and 
with  practically  no  persecution.  I  have  tried  to  caution  first  myself 
and  then  my  associates  against  a  feeling  of  security,  the  feeling  that  all 
is  well  with  us,  because  we  seem  to  get  along  so  well.  I  sincerely 
hope  that  we  will  never  feel  so  secure  that  we  will  forget  the  protecting 
care  of  the  Lord  which  is  over  us,  or  forget  his  blessings. 

The  Lord  is  blessing  our  branches.  The  branches  of  the  Western 
States  mission  are  growing  in  interest,  in  attendance  and  in  activity. 
I  wish  to  relate  to  you  one  incident  which  has  to  me  been  very  faith- 
inspiring.  I  will  not  name  the  branch.  That  is  unnecessary.  Suffice 
it  to  say,  one  of  our  branches  has  received  a  great  financial  blessing 
at  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  by  being  obedient  to  his  requirements.  The 
history  of  this  branch  has  been  rather  unfortunate.  There  was  con- 
tention among  its  members,  lack  of  appreciation  of  each  other's  virtues, 
a  falling  down  in  their  payment  of  tithes  and  offerings,  sometimes  a 
lack]  of  attendance  at  their  meetings ;  and  the  branch  had  in  a  measure 
divided  itself,  so  that  there  were  two  factions  in  it.  We,  (myself 
and  associate  missionaries),  were  holding  a  conference  there 
last  June.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  seemed  to  say  to  me:  "Prophesy 
to  this  people  that  if  they  will  love  each  other  and  keep  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord,  the  Lord  will  bless  them."  1  was  fearful  that  it 
was  not  .the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  directing  me ;  therefore,  I  did  not  give 
voice  to  the  impressions  that  came  to  me  until  the  last  meeting  we  held. 
By  the  way,  we  stayed  there  three  days.  At  the  close  of  the  last  meet- 
ing, I  could  no  longer  resist  the  feeling  that  seemed  to  be  upon  me.  I 
promised  those  people  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  by  prophecy,  that  if 
they  would  repent  of  their  weaknesses,  if  they  would  love  each  other, 
and  support  each  other,  if  they  would  pay  their  tithes  and  their  offerings, 
the  Lord  would  relieve  them  of  their  financial  distress.  They  had  a 
large  dam  and  a  reservoir  without  water  in  it.  The  impression  came 
to  me  very  distinctly;  "Do  not  promise  them  that  the  reservoir  will 
be  filled."  I  said :  "jl  do  not  promise  you  that  the  reservoir  will  be 
filled,  but  I  do  promise  you  that  the  way  will  be  opened  that  your  crops 
will  be  irrigated;  you  will  be  prospered  and  you  will  be  happy  if  you 
will  do  these  things."  They  sincerely  accepted  what  I  said.  I  went 
away  from  there  feeling  very  humble.  I  can  tell  you  now  after  nine 
months  have  passed  by,  that  the  reservoir  has  not  been  filled,  but  the 
legislature  of  the  state  in  which  they  reside  has  appropriated  $25,000.00 
to  help  them  build  another  reservoir.  They  are  building  on  a  stream 
that  flows  into  their  fields.  Another  party  has  given  one  of  them  a 
contract  to  get  out  three  million  feet  of  timber.  They  increased  their 
tithing  in  1928  nearly  fifty  per  cent  over  the  previous  year.  The  Lord 
is  answering  with  a  blessing  upon  their  heads.  The  president  of  that 
district  wrote  me  a  letter,  giving  me  these  facts,  with  great  appreciation. 
The  Lord's  protecting  care  is  over  us,  he  is  blessing  us,  and  we  are 
grateful  to  be  under  his  dominion. 

I  pray  that  he  will  bless  the  Church  and  every  member  thereof, 
and  above  all,  his  servants  who  preside  in  the  Church,  that  the  work 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  Lord  may  be  carried  on  as  he  would  have  it,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  try  always,  at  these  conferences,  to  hear  from  all  the  General 
Authorities,  also  from  mission  presidents  who  have  been  recently  re- 
leased, and  from  those  who  have  come  in  from  their  mission  fields  for 
conference  and  will  return  thereto.  We  have  at  the  present  time  forty- 
two  General  Authorities,  recently  retired  mission  presidents,  and  pres- 
idents who  will  return  to  their  respective  missions.  We  therefore  find 
it  necessary  to  ask  the  speakers  to  be  brief  in  their  remarks. 

President  Grant,  in  announcing  the  closing  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  is 
Truth?"  to  be  sung  by  the  congregation,  said:  "This  hymn  was  written 
by  one  of  the  most  loyal  and  faithful  members  of  the  Church,  the  late 
John  Jacques,  and  was  the  favorite  hymn  of  our  well-beloved  departed 
President,  Anthon  H.  Lund." 

After  the  singing  of  the  hymn  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Danford  M.  Bickmore,  President  of  the  Hyrum  Stake. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  meeting  commenced  at  2  o'clock  p.  m. 
President  Heber  T.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 
Elder  Charles  S.  Clark  of  the  Cassia  Stake  offered  the  invocation. 
The  Chaminade  Ladies'  Chorus,  under  the  direction  of  Prof. 
Anthony  C.  Lund,  sang  a  sacred  selection,  "Holy  Father." 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

1  am  reading  from  Paul's  epistle  to  the  Galatians : 

"Be  not  deceived;  God  is  not  mocked:  for  whatsoever  a  man  soweth,  that 
shall  he  also  reap. 

"For  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corruption;  but  he 
that  soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life  everlasting." 

Years  ago,  Sister  Snow,  one  of  our  gifted  poetesses,  wrote  a  hymn, 
the  first  lines  of  which  are: 

"The  trials  of  the  present  day 
Require  the  Saints  to  watch  and  pray, 
That  they  may  keep  the  narrow  way 
To  the  Celestial  glory." 

The  trials  which  she  referred  to  were  not  the  kind  we  are  now 
familiar  with.  The  trials  of  her  day  were  of  mob  violence,  of  hardship, 
of  struggle  and  strife. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


65 


As  we  heard  this  morning,  we  have  passed  beyond  that  period  of  the 
Church's:  history,  and  yet  we  are  not  without  our  trials.  They  are  of  a 
different  character,  and  sti#  they  require  the  saints  to  watch  and  pray 
if  we  are  to  preserve  ourselves  in  the  way  to  celestial  glory. 

THE  PRESENT  GENERATION 

I  am  not  one  of  those  who  find  pleasure  in  condemning  this  gen- 
eration. I  have  a  deep  sympathy  for  the  young  people  of  our  time.  I 
believe  they  arej  as  good  at  heart  as  their  parents.  Indeed  I  feel  that 
God  has  kept  them  in  reserve,  as  he  did  their  fathers  and  mothers,  to 
come  forth  in  an  age  wh*n  he  needs  them ;  and  that  they  also  can  be 
made  true  and  faithful.  I  feel,  however,  that  no  other  generation  has 
ever  needed  wisdom,  guidance,  and  help  as  much  as  does  this  generation 
of  young  people.  They  are  in  a  new  world,  face  to  face  with  con- 
ditions quite  unlike  those  that  obtained  in  the  time  of  their  parents. 
So  that  my  quarrel  shall  not  be  with  them  so  much  as  with  conditions 
that  they  must  meet.  I  have  a  spirit  of  patience  and  of  charity  towards 
them.  Yet  I  feel  in  my  heart  an  anxious  desire  to  awaken  the  members 
of  the  Church  to  the  need  of  lending  parental  aid  and  assistance  to 
these  boys  and  girls,  such  aid  and  assistance  as  perhaps  no  other  gen- 
eration has  really  needed. 

CORRUPTION  OF  MORALS  BRINGS  DESTRUCTION  OF  FAITH 

I  remember  in  my  early  childhood  being  considerably  shocked  by  a 
statement  which  appeared  in  this  city  from  an  enemy  of  the  Church. 
After  having  attempted  to  convert  the  young  people  of  the  Church 
from  the  faith  of  their  fathers  and  having  failed,  the  suggestion  was 
made,  that  if  you  want  to  convert  the  young  people  of  the  Mormon 
Church  you  cannot  argue  with  them,  you  cannot  attack  the  Book  of 
Mormon  or  Joseph  Smith — but  if  you  really  want  to  convert  them 
corrupt  them,  build  brothels,  get  them  into  these  institutions,  and  have 
their  morals  destroyed ;  then  you  can  easily  turn  them  from  their  faith. 

I  believe  that  this  is  true,  that  the  easiest  way  to  destroy  a  man's 
faith  is  to  destroy  his  morality;  that  when  his  morals  are  corrupted 
his  faith  totters ;  he  cannot  stand,  except  he  repent,  of  course. 

METHODS  OF  THE  ADVERSARY 

So  that  I  believe  that  while  the  enemy  is  not  arraying  men  and 
nations  against  the  Church,  he  has  not  quit  the  field.  Let  us  not  be  de- 
ceived. With  new  methods,  quite  different  from  those  employed  in  the 
days  of  our  fathers,  he  is  diligently  at  work,  using  more  effective  means 
to  destroy,  to  corrupt,  than  he  has  ever  used  before;  and  the  assaults 
that  he  is  making  are  against  the  individual  himself. 

,1  found  in  the  missioif  field  it  was  utterly  impossible  for  any  man 
to  successfully  attack  the  doctrines  of  this  Church.  When  the  elder 
was  thoroughly  familiar  with  the  teachings  of  the  Church  he  could 
defend  the  Church's  position.  I  have  never  been  afraid  of  such  assaults, 
I  have  never  been  afraid  of  mob  violence  nor  of  disasters  that  should 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


come  from  the  elements;  but  I  have  been  afraid  of  the  power  of  the 
evil  one  to  hurt  this  cause  when  he  could  corrupt  the  missionaries ;  and 
his  favorite  means  of  stopping  the  missionary  is  to  get  him  to  commit 
sin.  He  was  never  more  successful  in  stopping  the  Lord's  work  than 
when  he  could  induce  the  bearer  of  the  message  to  sin  and  to  transgress. 
I  have  discovered  in  my  own  experience  with  hundreds  of  missionaries 
that  when  the  devil  lays  a  snare  for  the  feet  of  a  missionary,  he  generally 
baits  the  hook  with  a  woman. 

THE  TRIALS  OF  PEACE  AND  PROSPERITY 

We  are  in  the  age  of  self-indulgence.  'It  is  not  peculiar  to  this 
Church;  it  is  in  the  world.  The  spirit  of  it  is  rampant  everywhere. 
It  beats  upon  our  shores  from  all  points.  It  enters  into  the  midst 
of  the  people.  It  is  a  deadly  siege  in  an  attempt  to  destroy  that  which 
persecution,  mob  violence,  privation  and  hardship  failed  to  destroy, — 
the  integrity  of  this  people.  I  am  not  a  pessimist  either.  While  I 
recognize  the  storms  that  are  raging  against  our  standards,  I  am  as 
sure  as  that  I  live  that  the  promises  of  the  Lord  will  be  fulfilled,  and 
that  this  work  shall  not  fail,  nor  shall  it  be  given  to  another  people. 
I  recognize  however,  with  my  brethren,  that  the  sorest  trials  that  have 
ever  come  to  the  Church  in  any  age  of  the  world  are  the  trials  of  peace 
and  prosperity.  But  we  are  to  do  a  new  thing,  a  thing  that  never  has 
before  been  done — -We  are  to  take  the  Church  of  Christ  not  only 
through  the  age  of  persecution  and  mob  violence,  but  through  the  age 
of  peace  and  prosperity.  For  we  must  learn  to  endure  faithfully  even 
in  peace  and  prosperity. 

|I  am  not  praying  for  the  return  of  persecution  and  poverty ;  I  am 
praying  for  peace  and  prosperity ;  but  above  all  things  for  strength 
and  power  to  endure  this  test.  For  it  was  not  the  design  and  the 
intention  of  the  Lord  to  have  this  people  always  in  suffering  in  bondage 
and  distress.  They  shall  come  to  peace  and  prosperity,  but  it  is  the 
sorest  trial  that  will  come  to  them. 

SNARES  OF  THE  EVIL  ONE 

I  recognize  that  there  are  some  things  connected  with  this  subject 
that  need  to  be  brought  to  the  attention  of  parents  and  of  the  watchmen 
presiding  in  the  various  stakes,  wards  and  missions  of  the  Church, 
watchmen  who  ought  to  distinguish,  and  they  do  I  am  sure,  the  presence 
of  evil,  and  set  up  a  defense  for  the  people  of  the  Church,  particularly 
the  young  people. 

I  believe  that  there  is  need  for  greater  care  over  our  young  people 
during  the  period  of  their  courtship.  I  have  been  grateful  for  ail  the 
blessings  and  joys  of  the  automobile,  but  with  it  has  come  also  dangers. 
Thq  courtship  of  too  many  goes  forward  in  the  automobile,  and  there 
lurks  a  danger  to  many,  because,  unchaperoned  and  out  of  reach  of 
parents,  away  from  all  restraint,  they  seem  to  think  they  are  alone. 
But  they  are  not,  for  the  devil  is  often  there  to  lay  snares  for  their  feet, 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


07 


to  destroy  their  own  happiness  and  to  darken  their  spirits  by  leading 
them  to  sin  and  transgression. 

During  the  war  I  saw  the  breaking  down  of  what  seemed  to  me  to 
be  the  most  precious  thing  that  the  girls  and  women  of  this  nation 
have,  maidenly  modesty,  until  now  it  has  come  to  be  a  sort  of  custom 
among  many  young  people  (I  regret  to  say  even  among  us),  that  they 
feel  at  liberty  to  promiscuously  engage  in  embracing  and  kissing  each 
other  when  there  is  no  thought  of  anything  serious  so  far  as  engage- 
ment or  marriage  is  concerned — only  the  thrill  they  get.  I  protest 
against  it  and  say  to  you  that  there  is  danger  in  it,  and  that  the  fire 
will  burn  those  who  play  with  it. 

The  sacredness  of  the  kiss  and  affectionate  relationships  belong 
only'  to  the  engaged  and  married  state,  and  ought  not  to  be  indulged 
in  by  those_who  are  only  seeking  the  thrill  of  the  moment.  There  will 
come  danger  if  we  do  not  guard  and  keep,  by  all  the  strength  and  power 
we  have,  these  splendid  young  people  in  the  path  of  rectitude  and  safety. 

A   PECULIAR  PEOPLE 

I  believe  that  virtue  is  its  own  reward.  We  arq  to  be  a  peculiar 
people.  I  do  not  think  the  Lord  meant  we  were  to  be  freaks  or  in  any 
sense  ugly  or  undesirable;  but  our  peculiarities  shall  consist  in  that 
we  are  different  from  other  people  in  some  of  these  most  desirable 
things.  I  remember,  while  on  my  first  mission  more  than  thirty  years 
ago,  meeting  a  gentleman  who  could  not  believe  that  these  Mormon 
missionaries  were  clean  and  undefiled.  He  said,  "You  do  not  mean  to 
tell  me  that  married  men  will  go  upon  a  mission  and  stay  for  two 
years  and  keep  themselves  morally  clean."  I  said:  "I  certainly  do. 
That  is  our  standard."  "Well,"  he  said,  "You  won't  find  it  anywhere 
else." 

THE  SINGLE  STANDARD 

I  feel  sure  that  this  is  true.  Our  standard  that  requires  a  young 
man  to  be  as  clean  and  as  chaste  and  as  pure  as  the  girl  he  asks  to  be 
his  wife,  the  mother  of  his  children,  is  peculiar.  We  do  not  find  it 
generally  in  the  world.  When  I  think  of  the  assaults  that  are  coming 
I  recognize  the  weakness  of  the  world's  position  because  of  its  double 
standard.  It  required  a  higher  standard  of  women  than  of  men,  and 
now  it  has  given  to  women  equal  rights  with  men,  not  only  in  the 
franchise,  but  in  other  things.  Some  women  are  coming  to  ask  the 
same  privilege  to  sow  their  wild  oats  that  men  have,  and  then  expect 
honorable  marriage. 

We  have  no  such  double  standard.  We  ought  to  be  able  to  succeed 
under  these  circumstances  better  than  others,  because  we  have  a  single 
standard  for  men  and  for  women.  We  expect  our  boys  to  be  as  good  as 
our  girls,  and  as  clean.  The  Master  said,  in  answer  to  the  question,  Who 
is  guilty  of  committing  adultery  ?  that  whosoever  looked  upon  a  woman 
to  hist  after  her  had  committed  adultery  already  with  her  in  his  heart; 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  that  unless  such  a  one  repents  he 
will  lose  the  Spirit.    It  is  the  quickest  way  to  lose  the  Spirit. 

PROTECTION  THROUGH  MODESTY 

There  never  has  been  a  day  perhaps  since  these  words  were  uttered 
by  the  Master  when  there  was  greater  temptation  for  men  to  think  evil 
than  in  this  age  with  its  immodesty,  in  almost  every  avenue  of  life.  I  am 
not  crying  for  reform  in  dress,  but  I  do  plead  with  the  mothers  of 
Zion  to  undertake  modesty  in  dress.  We  may  like  to  follow  the 
fashion,  but  let  us  follow  it  in  modesty.  The  most  precious  thing  that 
a  girl  has  is  her  modesty  and,  if  she  preserves  this  in  dress,  in  speech, 
in  action,  it  will  arm,  and  protect  her  as  nothing  else  will.  But  let  her 
lose  her  modesty,  and  she  becomes  a  victim  of  those  who  pursue  her, 
as  the  hare  ist  of  the  hound;  and  she  will  not  be  able  to  stand  unless 
she  preserves  her  modesty. 

PATTERN  MAKERS  FOR  THE  WORLD 

\I  am  therefore  of  the  opinion  that  there  is  no  peril  that  is  threaten- 
ing us  today  such  as  this  peril  of  immoralty.  It  is  in  the  world.  The 
standards  that  have  long  been  maintained  are  being  questioned  and  by 
many  discarded.  Are  we  also  to  succumb?  No.  If  that  day  comes, 
and  it  will,  when  the  people  from  the  ends  of  the  earth  will  say,  "Come, 
let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of 
Jacob,"  it  will  be  to  learn  of  the  ways  of  this  people.  If  we  act  and  live 
like  the  world,  why  need  they  come  here?  They  are  to  find  something 
different  here.  It  is  easy  for  us  to  drift  with  the  tide.  It  doesn't 
take  much  courage  to  do  that,  but  it  is  difficult  to  go  against  the  current. 
God  has  called  upon  this  people  to  be  pattern-makers  for  the  whole 
world,  to  hold  up  an  ensign  that  shall  attract  the  attention  of  the  ends 
of  the  earth.  Is  it  not  worth  fighting  for  to  be  admired  and  respected 
by  all  the  good  and  the  great?  This  is  the  battle  that  is  before  us,  to 
preserve  our  standards. 

MARRIAGE  FOR  A  HOLY  AND  SACRED  PURPOSE 

Then  when  we  come  to  the  question  of  marriage,  our  standards 
invite  young  men  and  women  to  live  worthy  to  enter  into  the  holy 
contract  of  matrimony  for  time  and  for  all  eternity ;  and  that  involves 
upon  them  another  sacred  obligation,  which  is  to  fulfil  the  first  great 
commandment  of  God,  "multiply  and  replenish  the  earth."  Not  com- 
panionate marriage,  no,  but  marriage  with  a  given  and  definite  pur- 
pose. I  plead  with  you  parents  and  teachers  in  Zion  to  hold  up  the 
ideal  and  the  standard  before  our  young  people  that  they  enter 
marriage  for  a  holy  and  sacred  purpose.  Not  that  they  are  to  use  these 
glorious  bodies  with  their  God-given  power  of  procreation  as  mere 
harps  of  pleasure.  If  they  do  they  shall  reap  disgust  for  each  other 
and  stand  condemned  before  God. 

1  do  not  know  of  course  what  we  agreed  to  before  we  came  into 
this  life,  but  I  have  a  deep  conviction  that  we  promised  our  Father's 
children  who  long  had  been  waiting  for  the  privilege  and  opportunity 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


60 


to  come  into  mortal  life  that  we  would  remember  them  when  we  came 
into  life  ourselves.  If  we  wilfully  and  deliberately  neglect  that  promise 
and  forget  them  and  determinedly  live  a  childless  life,  we  shall  stand 
condemned  in  the  presence  of  those  to  whom  we  have  made  sacred 
promises  and  before  God  himself. 

POVERTY  NOT  A  BAN 

Are  poverty  and  the  expense  of  raising  children  to  be  a  ban  that 
shall  deter  us  from  maintaining  the  high  standards  of  our  fathers  and 
mothers?  No.  Poverty  never  was  a  ban  against  children  rising  to 
eminence.  Lincoln  was  not  held  back  from  the  highest  office  within 
the  gift  of  the  people  because  he  was  born  of  poor  parents  in  a  log 
house.  Nor  need  it  be  in  this  age  of  liberty,  education  and  great  oppor- 
tunity for  even  the  poor.  Let  us  not  be  afraid  to  assume  the  full 
obligations  and  receive  the  blessings  that  God  has  promised  to  those 
who  keep  this  first  great  commandment. 

As  far  as  the  nations  of  the  earth  are  concerned,  I  have  made 
some  study  of  their  statistics  and  they  show  that  going  hand  in  hand 
with,  a  decreasing  birth  rate  is  an  increasing  divorce  rate.  The  cement 
that  binds  hearts  together,  children,  is  lacking,  and  as  a  result  dis- 
solution comes ;  and  as  the  family  institution  begins  to  crumble,  so  will 
the  government  and  the  Church. 

THE  CRIME  OF  SEXUAL  IMPURITY 

I  plead  with  you,  therefore,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  rally 
to  our  standards.  Certainly  our  teachers  were  right  when  they  held 
up  an  ideal  that  virtue  was  as  sacred  as  life  itself,  and  that  we  had 
better  lose  our  lives  than  lose  our  Adrtue.  That  was  the  teaching  I 
received ;  and  next  to  the  crime  of  murder  itself  is  the  crime  of  sexual 
impurity.  The  boy  who  would  deliberately  look  upon  a  clean,  chaste, 
and  pure  girl  to  rob  her  of  her  virtue  is  almost  as  guilty  as  though  he 
contemplated  sending  a  knife  into  her  heart  to  destroy  her;  for  when 
she  loses  her  virtue  she  loses  that  which  is  more  precious  than  life 
itself,  ilf  she  does  lose  her  virtue  the  devil  is  apt  to  deceive  her,  for 
he  often  does,  and  make  her  believe,  and  a  young  man  also,  that  now 
he  or  she  has  committed  this  sin  they  are  lost  forever.  Repentance  is 
in  order  always,  and  mercy  for  the  sinner. 

THE  WAGES  OF  SIN 

I  was  saying  to  a  young  woman  who  was  confessing  her  own  sins 
recently,  wondering  if  there  were  any  hope  for  her,  that  if  she  con- 
tinued the  sale  of  her  glorious  body  for  the  filthy  lucre  of  this  world  she 
soon  would  come  to  the  end  of  her  career,  and,  like  an  o'ld  worn-out 
shoe,  be  cast  aside,  and  die  prematurely,  full  of  disease,  in  some 
charitable  institution. 

REWARD  OF  THE  VIRTUOUS 

When  you  contrast  that  condition  with  the  glorious  privilege  God 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


has  offered  to  the  sons  and  daughters  of  Zion  who  keep  themselves  clean 
and  pure  and  undefiled,  to  go  into  the  temples  of  God  to  receive  a  com- 
panion for  time  and  eternity,  that  they  may  be  worthy  to  pass  on. 
by  the  angels  and  the  Gods,  to  their  glory  and  inheritance  and  attain  unto 
the  power  of  endless  increase,  is  it  not  inducement  enough  to  call  for 
sacrifices,  for  cleanliness  of  life,  for  purity,  so  that  we  may  reap  these 
glorious  blessings  and  holy  privileges? 

A  WORTHY  EXAMPLE 

'I  believe  that  the  strength  and  the  power  is  in  every  boy  to  be  as 
good  as  was  Joseph  our  forefather  who  was  sold  into  Egypt.  From  the 
time  of  my  childhood  the  story  of  his  life  has  appealed  to  me.  When 
he,  comely  and  desirable,  was  sought  after  by  the  wife  of  the  ruler, 
he  resisted  her  again  and  again ;  and  when  she  seized  upon  him  he  fled 
from  her  presence,  though  he  left  part  of  his  clothing  in  her  possession. 
Condemned  falsely,  he  still  stood  true  to  his  convictions,  and  God 
vindicated  him. 

Let  the  young  men  of  Israel,  the  descendants  of  this  Joseph,  look 
upon  their  ancestor  and  be  inspired  to  die  rather  than  to  be  defiled, 
that  they  may  be  worthy  to  come  into  the  great  heritage  that  God  has 
for  his  faithful  sons  and  daughters.  For  if  this  generation  shall  keep 
themselves  clean  and  undefiled  they  shall  reap  honors  and  distinction 
like  unto  which  their  fathers  who  subdued  the  deserts  and  made  it 
blossom  never  attained.    We  shall  indeed  be  peculiar. 

REQUIREMENTS  TO  WEATHER  THE  STORM 

I  have  confidence  and  a  faith  that  the  great  majority  of  this  people 
shall  weather  the  storm,  but  it  will  require  the  closing  in  of  our  ranks. 
It  will  require  closer  co-operation  between  parents  and  children.  It 
will  require  every  effort  and  every  power  that  this  people  can  put  forth 
to  preserve  this  generation  in  purity.  God  give  us  the  strength  and 
the  power  to  do  it,  that  we  may  receive  the  great  distinction  and  bless- 
ing and  the  eternal  joy  that  shall  come  as  a  result  of  achievement  and 
accomplishment,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen, 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the  Mexican  Missioit 

I  have  been  verv  greatly  impressed,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  by  the 
spirit  of  the  conference  so  far,  and  I  feel  strengthened  and  built  up  in 
my  faith  by  reason  of  the  instructions  and  admonitions  and  the  testi- 
monies that  have  been  given.  I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father 
that  I  am  accounted  worthy  of  membership  in  the  Church ;  that  I  have 
been  accounted  worthy  to  labor  in  the  vineyard  of  the  Lord.  My  mis- 
sionary labors  have  been  a  source  of  very  great  joy  to  me,  and  they 
continue  to  be  so. 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  of  laboring  with  the  noble  young  men 
and  women  who  are  called  from  out  the  ranks  of  the  Church  and  who 


ELDER  REV  L.  PRATT 


71 


are  now  and  have  been  for  the  past  years  laboring  with  me  in  the 
mission  field.  They  grow  and  develop  in  a  degree  that  is  marvelous,  in 
their  contact  with  the  world,  in  their  contact  with  opposition,  and  even 
in  their  contact  with  the  indifference  that  they  encounter  in  the  world. 
I  think  someone  said  yesterday  that  they  are  born  seemingly  with  a 
testimony,  and  as  soon  as  they  begin  to  labor  and  to  study  and  to  reflect, 
this  testimony  springs  into  real  life  and  activity  and  they  grow  and 
develop  in  a  wonderful  way.  Their  spirit  of  obedience  is  very  re- 
markable, my  brethren  and  sisters.  Those  who  have  labored  with  me, 
in  nearly  every  instance  have  not  hesitated  at  all  to  go  where  they 
were  directed  to  go,  or  to  stay  whatever  length  of  time  they  were  asked 
to  stay.  If  we  had  no  difficulty  about  elders  going  home  other  than  that 
which  we  have  from  the  elders  in  the  field  our  difficulties  would  bo  few 
indeed.  We  do,  I  am  sorry  to  say,  have  some  little  difficulty  in  keeping 
our  very  fine  missionaries  in  the  field,  because  of  the  attitude  assumed 
by  friends  and  relatives,  and  in  some  instances  presiding  officers,  at 
home.  I  wish  that  it  could  be  understood  by  the  people  of  the  Church 
generally,  as  we  mission  presidents  understand  it,  and  we  have  our 
understanding  from  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church,  that  a 
mission  in  the  world  is  not  for  any  stipulated  length  of  time.  Some 
may  be  honorablv  released  at  a  year's  expiration,  and  others  may  stay 
well  beyond  the  two  year  mark,  even  in  some  instances  running  into 
three  and  five  years  in  some  missions.  It  would  make  it  very  much 
easier  for  your  missionary  boys  and  girls  if  you  could  maintain  them 
there  as  long  as  the  Lord  requires  them  to  remain ;  and  that  duration 
of  time  shall  be  indicated  through  the  servants  of  the  Lord  whom  he 
has  entrusted  to  preside  over  your  young  men  and  young  women  in  the 
missionary  field. 

In  our  particular  field  of  labor  the  work  is  progressing  very  satis- 
factorily, considering  conditions  and  all  concerned,  even  more  satisfac- 
torily than  one  could  well  hope  for.  We  are  thankful  to  the  Lord  for 
this  and  feel  a  desire  to  continue  our  labors  and  to  work  zealously  for 
the  redemption  of  that  particular  branch  of  the  house  of  Israel  with 
which  we  are  laboring,  namely,  the  Lamanite  people,  who  are  descend- 
ants of  Joseph  and  who  have  resided  upon  this  land  of  America. 

I  have  been  particularly  impressed  during  this  conference  by  the 
reference  that  has  been  made  to  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  has  made 
my  heart  rejoice  to  hear  the  strong  testimonies  given  in  favor  of  its 
divine  authenticity,  and  it  is  a  source  of  joy  to  know  that  the  men  of 
science,  archaeologists,  who  are  delving  into  the  ruins  of  the  past,  are 
developing  only  things  that  corroborate  the  divine  authenticity  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon ;  for  in  very  deed  all  that  is  coming  forth  is  in  favor 
of  it.  So  far  as  my  studies  and  observations  are  concerned  I  have 
found  nothing  that  in  any  way  controverts  the  claim  that  we  make  for 
tne  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

It  has  been  my  good  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  travel  a 
very  great  deal  in  Book  of  Mormon  lands,  and  it  would  have  been 
strange  indeed  if  I  had  not  taken  some  interest  and  had  I  not  found  some 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


things  that  to  me  are  evidences  of  the  divine  authenticity  of  that  book.  I 
have  not  been  among  those  who  have  tried  to  place  or  locate  certain 
cities,  or  even  definitely  certain  lands;  but  I  have  read  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  of  a  mighty  civilization  that  has  existed  upon  this  con- 
tinent in  the  remote  past — the  Jaredite  civilization,  preceding  even  the 
Nephite  civilization.  I  have  read  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  of  their 
spreading  out  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  land.  I  have  read  about  the 
wonderful  buildings  they  have  left,  the  wonderful  temples  that  they 
have  erected,  the  extent  of  their  great  cities.  !l  have  studied  about  the 
materials  used  in  the  construction  of  those  cities;  and  it  has  been  my 
happy  pleasure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  see  verily  demonstrated  be- 
fore me  the  fact  that  there  has  lived  in  the  remote  past  upon  this  con- 
tinent a  civilization  that  exceeded  inj  every  way  that  found  even  by  the 
Spanish  conquerors  in  Mexico  and  by  the  Spanish  conquerors  in  Peru, 
who  conquered  the  most  highly  civilized  nations  found  here  by  European 
conquerors. 

I  have  stood  in  amazement  at  the  immense  dimensions  of  the  stones 
used  in  the  construction  of  great  buildings  in  Mexico.  I  have  seen 
jutted  together  as  lintels  over  three  great  doorways  that  led  into  a  great 
hall  from  a  courtyard,  stones  that  were  five  by  six  by  twenty-five  feet 
in  dimension.  Brother  Ballard  and  I,  in  returning  from  our  missionary 
sojourn  in  Buenos  Aires,  came  by  the  great  ruined  city  of  Tiahuanaco. 
at  the  extreme  southern  end  of  Lake  Titicaca,  at  the  great  elevation  of 
12,500  feet  above  the  sea  level;  where  we  actually  measured  stones  that 
were  six  by  eight  by  twenty-five  feet,  and  they  were  fitted  together  in 
buildings,  without  mortar,  in  a  system  of  dry  masonry.  So  well 
fitted  and  adjusted  were  some  of  these  huge  stones,  that  even  after  all 
the  ages  that  have  passed  since  they  were  placed  there,  you  cannot  insert 
a  knife  blade  between  the  joints. 

I  have  seen  many  things  that  demonstrate  to>  me  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  true.  It  is  not  a  difficult  thing  for  me  to  believe  in  inscriptions 
on  plates  of  gold.  When  Brother  Ballard  and  I  were  returning  from 
.South  America  we  had  the  opportunity  of  going  ashore  at  Lima,  Peru, 
the  capital  of  the  Peruvian  government.  There  we  had  access  to  a 
national  museum  where  a  great  collection  had  been  made,  which  was 
being  housed  in  new  quarters  that  were  not  open  to  the  public.  We 
secured  entrance,  through  the  good  offices  of  our  ambassador  to  that 
country,  and  after  witnessing  many  archaeological  wonders  we  came  to 
a  glass  case  that  was  perfectly  filled  with  gold  ornaments.  There  were 
cups  and  candlesticks  seemingly,  of  very  curious  workmanship.  They 
were  wonderful  indeed.  They  were  a  few  of  the  great  things  that  had 
been  left  after  the  cupidity  of  the  Spanish  conquerors  had  robbed  that 
country  of  all  the  gold  that  could  be  found,  but  yet  some  was  left  behind. 
After  examining  through  the  glass  case  many  of  the  objects,  our  at- 
tention was  attracted  to  a  pile  of  gold  leaf  in  one  corner.  As:  near  as 
I  could  calculate  its  dimensions,  it  was  about  the  same  size  as  our 
Juvenile  Instructor,  and  the  pile  was  about  as  high  as  half  a  dozen 
Juveniles.    The  thickness  of  the  leaves,  it  seemed  to  me,  was  similar  to 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT  73 

the  outside  cover  of  that  magazine.  They  were  of  pure  gold  leaf. 
All  you  would  need  to  do  would  be  to  insert  a  ring  through  the  edges 
of  them  to  have  a  set  of  plates  that  would  contain  at  least  as  much  as 
we  have  in  the  abridgment  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  was  brought 
to  us  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

■I  do  not  say  these  things  to  be  sensational  or  to  boast,  but  I  tell 
you  that  my  eyes  have  beheld  them.  I  do  not  doubt  the  story  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  because  of  these  things.  I  have  delved  a  very  great 
deal  into  old  Spanish  literature  during  the  great  number  of  years  I 
have  resided  in  Latin  American  countries,  and  I  have  been  able  to  search 
out  many  curious  traditions  concerning  the  belief  of  the  ancient  people, 
as  they  were  recorded  by  the  early  chroniclers  that  came  with  the  con- 
quest of  Mexico ;  things  that  bespeak  the  fact  that  the  people  must  have 
had  a  knowledge  of  the  creation  and  of  the  flood  that  was  in  every  par- 
ticular coincident  with  or  exactly  like  the  account  given  in  the  Bible. 
The  story  of  the  creation  is  not  recited  very  much  in  detail  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  but  one  cannot  but  understand  from  that  record  that  the 
people  had  a  knowledge  of  it  precisely  as  the  Jews  had  it,  because  of  the 
fact  that  the  Nephites  brought  with  them  the  first  five  books  of  Moses, 
upon  which  plates  perhaps,  as  they  were  spoken  of  this  morning  by 
Elder  Talmage,  were  contained  these  writings.  They  had  this  record 
precisely  as  it  is  in  the  Bible. 

I  have  in  my  possession  some  pamphlets  from  which  I  have  made 
a  few  extracts  that  I  should  like  to  refer  to.  One  is  in  regard  to  the 
flood.  These  pamphlets  are  in  Spanish,  and  I  have  made  a  hasty 
translation  of  them  into  English,  but  I  would  like  to  call  them  to  your 
attention. 

You  remember  that  it  is  recorded  in  Genesis  that  the  Lord  com- 
manded that  the  waters  from  above  be  separated  from  the  waters  be- 
neath, and  the  account  goes  on  to  tell  how  they  were  arranged  in  their 
proper  places.  There  is  a  tradition  that  was  recorded  by  Padre  Pedro 
de  los  Rios  (Codice  Rios  (Vaticano  A.),  folio  12,  anverso)  speaking 
of  Quetzalcoatl,  a  great  being  traditional  among  them,  to  whom  they 
attributed  the  creation  of  the  world  and  many  other  things.  And  this  is 
said  about  him  by  Padre  Rios  as  he  recorded  the  tradition  that  he  found 
among  the  Indians : 

"This  is  the  image  of  the  first  Lord  that  the  world  had,  who,  when  it 
pleased  him,  breathed  and  separated  the  waters  of  the  heavens  from  those  of 
the  earth,  the  which  had  before  been  together,  and  he  it  is  that  arranged  them 
as  they  now  are." 

You  will  see  a  close  analogy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  between  this 
tradition  and  the  account  given  in  Genesis,  which  account  truly  must 
have  been  had  among  the  people  of  this  land,  if  it  so  be  that  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  true. 

There  is  a  tradition  among  these  people  concerning  the  destruction 
of  the  world  by  the  flood;  and  furthermore,  they  recount  that  in  the 
traditions  of  the  native  people  there  was  an  account  of  the  destruction 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  world  at  another  time.  This  excited  the  curiosity  of  one  Diego 
Munoz  Camargo.  You  will  find  this  accoufit  written  in  his  History 
of  Tlaxcala,  published  in  1892,  on  pages  153  and  154.    He  says: 

"There  being  a  very  great  error  among  these  natives,  and  very  general 
throughout  this  new  Spain,  because  they  said  this  world  had  had  two 
endings  or  two  windings  up,  and  that  one  had  been  by  deluges  and 
tempestuous  waters,  and  that  the  earth  had  been  turned  upside  down,  and 
that  those  who  had  lived  at  that  time  had  been  giants,  whose  bones  are 
found  in  the  broken  places. 

You  will  recall,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Genesis  account 
also  states  that  there  were  giants  living  in  those  days.    The  tradition 

says : 

"And  those  who  lived  at  that  time  were  giants  whose  bones  are  now 
found  in  the  broken  places." 

"They  also  say  that  there  had  been  another  ending  of  the  world,  and  that 
it  was  caused  by  winds  and  hurricanes  that  were  so  great  that  everything  in 
the  world  was  destroyed,  even  the  trees  and  plants  of  the  mountains;  and  that 
the  men  of  that  time  were  taken  up  from  the  ground  and  were  lost  to  sight. 
And  they  hold  as  a  certainty,  furthermore,  that  there  is  to  be  another  ending 
of  the  world  and  it  is  to  be  by  fire." 

■If  you  will  take  the  pains,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  look  up 
these  references  you  will  find  that  my  statement  in  regard  to  this  is  true. 
These  things  attract  my  attention  very  greatly,  and  there  are  innumer- 
able things  of  this  kind  that  could  be  recited  that  are  just  as  wonderful 
as  these  that  I  have  mentioned. 

I  would  like  to  recount  just  one  more  tradition,  which  is  in  regard  to 
the  miraculous  conception  of  Jesus  Christ  or  Quetzalcoatl.  Our  account 
of  the  conception  and  birth  of  Jesus  Christ  and  that  of  the  conception 
and  birth  of  Quetzalcoatl,  who  was  their  great  Deity,  are  almost  the 
same.    You  will  find  this  in  the  Codice  Telleriano  Remensis. 

"Quetzalcoatl  was  born  in  Chiuenauiecatl,  which  is  where  the  hand  is — 
He  it  is  that  was  born  of  the  virgin  that  is  cailed  Chimalman  in  the  heavens. 
This  Quetzalcoatl  is  he  of  whom  it  is  said,  'He  made  the  world,'  because  they 
say  that  this  Tonacatecuhtli  (the  supreme  God  who  resides  in  the  most  high 
heaven)  when  it  pleased  him  breathed  and  begot  this  Quetzalcoatl;  and  he, 
(Quetzalcoatl),  they  say  it  was  that  made  the  first  man." 

This  is  very  remarkable,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  taken  in  con- 
nection with  the  account  given  in  the  New  Testament,  of  the  conception 
of  Jesus  Christ ;  and  if  you  will  couple  that  also  with  the  first  chapter 
of  John,  wherein  it  says  that  the  Son  of  the  Most  High  God,  who  was 
with  the  Father  from  the  very  beginning,  was  the  Creator  of  the  earth, 
and  that  by  him  and  through  him  and  of  him  all  things  that  were  made 
were  made,  you  will  see  that  we  have  ample  reason  to  accept,  even 
from  these  external  evidences,  the  fact  that  the  Book  of  Mormon 
is  the  word  of  God. 

Nov/  to  me  it  is  a  reality.  It  is  my  faith  and  belief  in  this  Book  of 
Mormon  that  has  kept  me  going  throughout  all  the  dark  years  of  my 
missionary  service  in  Mexico.  For  it  seems  that  no  more  obstacles  could 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT 


75 


be  placed  in  the  way  of  missionary  progress  than  have  been,  because  of 
conditions  that  have  reigned  in  that  land.  But  the  Book  of  Mormon 
recounts  to  us  that  the  people  of  the  land,  the  descendants  of  those 
who  wrote  these  great  prophecies  of  the  Lord,  are  a  covenant  people 
of  the  Lord  and  they  are  to  be  redeemed. 

I  want  to  read  to  you  something  that  has  given  to  me  a  great 
deal  of  faith  and  hope,  and  if  the  book  is  true  as  we  declare  it  to  be, 
these  promises  that  have  not  yet  had  their  fulfilment  will  most  surely 
be  fulfilled  in  behalf  of  that  people.  I  read  to  you  now  from  the 
thirtieth  chapter  of 'Second  Nephi,  beginning  with  the  third  verse: 

"And  now,  I  would  prophesy  somewhat  more  concerning  the  Jews  and 
the  Gentiles.  For  after  the  book  of  which  I  have  spoken  shall  come  forth,  and 
be  written  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  sealed  up  again  unto  the  Lord,  there  shall 
be  many  who  shall  believe  the  words  which  are  written;  and  they  shall  carry 
them  forth  unto  the  remnant  of  our  seed. 

"And  then  shall  the  remnant  of  our  seed  know  concerning  us,  how  that 
we  came  out  from  Jerusalem,  and  that  they  are  descendants  of  the  Jews. 

"And  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  shall  be  declared  among  them;  where- 
fore, they  shall  be  restored  unto  the  knowledge  of  their  fathers,  and  also 
to  the  knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  was  had  among  their  fathers. 

"And  then  shall  they  rejoice;  for  they  shall  know  that  it  is  a  blessing 
unto  them  from  the  hand  of  God;  and  their  scales  of  darkness  shall  begin 
to  fall  from  their  eyes;  and  many  generations  shall  not  pass  away  among 
them,  save  they  shall  be  a  white  and  delightsome  people." 

I  believe  that  prediction.  I  am  working  earnestly,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  its  fulfilment.  Tt  would  be  almost  easier,  looking  at  the 
thing  from  a  natural  standpoint,  to  believe  in  the  extermination  of  the 
people  rather  than  that  any  of  them  would  be  spared.  But  they  are 
to  enjoy  this  great  redemption. 

I  would  like  to  refer  to  statistics  that  reveal  the  fact  that  since  the 
coming  of  the  Spanish  conquerors  among  the  Indian  people, — at  least 
speaking  of  those  south  of  the  Rio  Grande,  clear  on  through  Mexico 
and  down  to  Central  and  South  America, — nine-tenths  of  them  have 
succumbed.  That  is  in  a  period  of  about  four  hundred  years.  Mathe- 
matically calculating"  it  would  not  take  long  for  the  other  one-tenth 
tq  be  wiped  out,  for  it  seems  that  the  same  condition  of  strife  and  war 
and  bloodshed  prevails  among  them.  Looking  at  it  naturally  it  almost 
looks  as  though  not  even  a  remnant  of  them  might  be  left.  But  in 
this  respect,  and  in  order  that  my  faith  may  not  falter,  I  take  courage 
from  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  came  to  Nephi  concerning  this  very 
thing;  for  verily  he  was  shown  just  what  would  happen  among  this 
people,  that  his  own  branch  should  be  destroyed  at  the  hands  of  their 
brethren,  and  that  his  brethren  should  dwindle  in  darkness  and  un- 
belief, and  that  there  should  be  wars  and  strife  among  them  for  gen- 
eration after  generation.  But  the  Lord  said  to  him  something  that 
must  have  been  very  consoling  to  him,  and  indeed,  my.  brethren  and 
sisters,  it  is  very  consoling  to  me.  Speaking  of  the  great  Gentile  nation 
that  should  be  brought  in  to  bring  them  down  and  to  inhabit  the  land, 
the  Lord  maintains  that  it  is  the  land  of  the  inheritance  of  the  sons  and 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


daughters  and  the  descendants  of  Lehi,  to  whom  he  gave  this  land  as  a 
perpetual  inheritance.  And  in  this  connection  the  Lord  says  to  Nephi 
as  recorded  in  the  thirteenth  chapter  of  first  Nephi: 

"Nevertheless,  thou  beholdest  that  the  Gentiles  who  have  gone  forth  out 
of  captivity,  and  have  been  lifted  up  by  thq  power  of  God  above  all  other 
nations,  upon  the  face  of  the  land  which  is  choice  above  all  other  lands,  which 
is  the  land  that  the  Lord  hath  covenanted  with  thy  father  that  his  seed 
should  have  for  the  land  of  their  inheritance;  wherefore,  thou  seest  that 
the  Lord  God  will  not  suffer  that  the  Gentiles  will  utterly  destroy  the 
mixture  of  thy  seed,  which  are  among  thy  brethren.  Neither  will  he  suffer 
that  the  Gentiles  shall  destroy  the  seed  of  thy  brethren." 

So  I  take  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  these  prophecies  and 
promises  are  valid.  The  Lord  intends  to  redeem  that  people.  He 
intends  to  redeem  them  through  those  of  us  who  are  brought  out  from 
among  the  Gentile  nations  and  who  in  very  deed  believe  the  words 
of  the  book  that  has  come  to  us.  I  testify  to  you  with  those  who  have 
testified  before  me  that  it  is  the  word  of  God.  It  has  been  revealed 
through  the  instrumentality  of  the  greatest  prophet  that  has  resided  in 
this  world,  save  it  be  the  Son  of  God  himself ;  and  it  will  stand  the 
test  of  time.  It  will  stand  the  test  of  any  investigation  that  can  be 
brought  to  bear  and  in  the  end  it  will  triumph.  The  Lord  help  us 
to  believe  it  and  help  us  to  act  well  our  part  in  carrying  out  the  work 
assigned  to  us  in  this  great  work  of  the  Lord,  I  humbly  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

An  ancient  prophecy,  in  the  second  chapter  of  Isaiah,  contains, 
in  the  first  four  verses,  two  notable  predictions.  In  the  fifth  verse  the 
prophet  makes  this  telling  appeal  to  the  people  of  Jacob:  "O  house 
of  Jacob,  come  ye,  and  let  us  walk  in  the  light  of  the  Lord." — Isaiah  2 :5. 

WHAT  PEOPLE  DESIRE  TO  KNOW 

I  received  a  letter  the  other  day  from  Evanston,  Wyoming.  The 
writer  said  that  in  recent  remarks  in  this  tabernacle  I  indicated  that 
there  are  characteristic  differences  between  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  and  other  churches.  My  correspondent  adds  that 
I  failed  to  point  out  the  differences.  I  attempted  then  to  point  out 
that  our  missionary  system  is  one  of  the  characteristic  features  of  our 
Church  work.  I  hope  this  afternoon  briefly  to  indicate  another  out- 
standing feature. 

In  the  ninth  chapter  of  the  Acts  of  the  Apostles,  it  is  said : 

"And  Saul,  yet  breathing  out  threatenings  and  slaughter  against  the 
disciples;  of  the  Lord,  went  unto  the  High  Priest. 

"And  desired  of  him  letters  to  Damascus  to  the  synagogues,  that  if  he 
found  any  of  this  way"— that  is,  any  who  are  disciples  of  the  Lord,  any  of 
the  believers  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ— "men  or  women,  he  might  bring 
them  bound  unto  Jerusalem." 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


77 


THE  LIGHT)  AND  THE  VOICE 

"And  as  he  journeyed,  he  came  near  to  Damascus:  and  suddenly  there 
shined  round  about  him  a  light  from  heaven: 

"And  he  fell  to  the  earth  and  heard  a  voice."— Acts  9:1-4. 

He  saw  a  light  and  he  heard  a  voice.  Later,  Paul  the  Apostle 
appears  before  King  Agrippa  in  his  own  defense:  and,  standing. before 
this  great  king,  he  said,  telling  this  same  story: 

"Whereupon,  as  I  went  to  Damascus  with  authority  and  commission 
from  the  chief  priests, 

"At  midday,  O  king,  I  saw  in  the  way  a  light  from  heaven,  above  the 
brightness  of  the  sun,  shining  round  about  me  and  them  which  journeyed, 
with  me. 

"And  when  we  were  all  fallen  to  the  earth,  I  heard  a  voice  speaking 
unto  me." — Acts  26:13,  14. 

Notice  that  he  says :  "I  saw  a  light,"  "I  heard  a  voice."  It  was  a 
vision. 

EFFECTS  OF  THE  VISION 

We  have  seen  that  Isaiah  says : 

"O  house  of  Jacob,  come  ye,  and  let  us  walk  in  the  light  of  the  Lord." 
— Isaiah  2:5. 

That  light  from  heaven  which  shone  into  the  life  and  soul  of  Saul 
transformed  him  from  a  man  who  was  persecuting  the  followers  of  the 
meek  and  lowly  Nazarene  to  one  who  thereafter  gave  them  his  most 
loyal  and  ardent  support.  It  changed  him  from  a  man  of  hate  to  a 
a  man  of  love.  It  is  that  spirit — something  that  comes  into  the  human 
heart — that  we  believe  in  these  days  results  when  one  in  authority,  plac- 
ing his  hands  upon  those  who  are  faithful  and  repentant,  says  to  them, 
"Receive  ye  the  Holy  Ghost." 

Ours  is  a  land  of  liberty  and  freedom,  especially  a  land  of  re- 
ligious freedom.  Its  motto,  "In  God  we  trust,"  might  well  have  come 
from  that  remarkable  picture — that  scene  of  which  we  all  have  read — 
Jesus  the  Son  of  God,  in  the  Garden  of  Gethsemane  upon  his  knees. 
That  is  the  spirit  which  has  characterized  leading  people  of  the  United 
States  in  the  entire  history  of  our  nation. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  AMERICA 

Have  you  examined  the  special  stamp  issued  in  1928  by  the  United 
States  government?  In  the  left-hand  corner  is  this  inscription :  "1778"  ; 
in  the  right-hand  corner,  "1928" — one  hundred  and  fifty  years  later.  Be- 
tween these  two  dates  are  the  words  "Valley  Forge";  and  on  the 
stamp,  the  stamp  of  the  United  States  government,  officially  made  in 
the  year  of  our  Lord  1928,  is  Washington,  the  father  of  his  country, 
upon  his  knees.  The  motto  of  our  country,  as  it  appears  upon  our 
dollar,  is :  "In  God  We  Trust."  To  this  land  of  liberty— of  religious 
freedom— people  came  that  they  might  worship  God  according  to  the 
dictates  of  their  own  conscience.    During  the  first  critical  period,  they 


78 


\ 

GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


1 


were  led  by  George  Washington,  who  frequently  and  effectively  sought 
divine  aid. 

THE  WISDOM  OF  FRANKLIN 

Standing  in  the  Constitutional  Convention,  Benjamin  Franklin  said  : 

"Mr.  President,  I  perceive  that  we  are  not  in  condition  to  pursue  this 
business  any  further.  Our  blood  is  too  hot.  We  indeed  seem  to  feel  our 
own  want  of  political  wisdom,  since  we  have  been  running  about  in  search  of 
it.  We  have  gone  back  to  ancient  history  for  models  of  governments  and 
examined  the  different  forms  of  those  republics  which,  having  been  formed 
with  the  seeds  of  their  own  dissolution,  now  no' longer  exist.  In  this  situation 
of  this  assembly,  groping  as  it  were  in  the  dark,  to  find  political  truth,  and 
scarce  able  to  distinguish  it  when  presented  to  us,  how  has  it  happened,  sir, 
that  we  have  not  hitherto  once  thought  of  humbly  applying  to  the  Father  of 
light  to  illuminate  our  understandings?  In  the  beginning  of  the  contest 
with  Great  Britain,  when  we  were  sensible  to  danger,  we  had  daily  prayer 
in  this  room  for  divine  protection.  Our  prayers,  sir,  were  heard;  and  they 
were  graciously  answered. 

"To  that  kind  Providence  we  owe  this  happy  opportunity  of  consulting, 
in  peace,  on  the  means  of  establishing  our  future  national  felicity;  and  have 
we  now  forgotten  that  powerful  Friend?  Or  do  we  imagine  that  we  no 
longer  need  his  assistance?  I  have  lived,  sir,  a  long  time;  and  the  longer 
I  live  the  more  convincing  proofs  I  see  of  this  truth,  that  God  governs  in 
the  affairs  of  men." 

THE  FAITH    OF  LINCOLN 

No  less  a  man  than  Abraham  Lincoln,  foremost  and  most  typical 
of  Americans,  was  wont  to  retire  into  his  office,  and  there,  behind  a 
locked  door,  to  appeal  to  divine  providence  for  help  and  guidance. 
While  the  fearful  Civil  War  was  raging,  Lincoln  issued  a  proclamation 
setting  apart  the  30th  day  of  April,  1863,  as  a  day  of  fasting  and  prayer. 
In  this  choice  land,  "choice  above  all  other  lands"  (II  Nephi  1:5),  he 
appealed  to  the  people  to  go  into  their  various  places  of  worship,  to 
assemble  around  their  own  hearthstones,  and  to  appeal  to  the  Most 
High  for  divine  direction : 

"Whereas  it  is  the  duty  of  nations  as  well  as  of  men  to  own  their  de- 
pendence upon  the  overruling  power  of  God,  to  confess  their  sins  and  trans- 
gressions in  humble  sorrow,  yet  with  assured  hope  that  genuine  repentance 
will  lead  to  mercy  and  pardon,  and  to  recognize  the  sublime  truth,  announced 
in  the  Holy  Scriptures  and  proven  by  all  history,  that  those  nations  only  are 
blessed  whose  God  is  the  Lord; 

"And,  insomuch  as  we  know  that  by  his  divine  law  nations,  like  indi- 
viduals, are  subjected  to  punishments  and  chastisements  in  this  world,  may 
we  not  justly  fear  that  the  awful  calamity  of  civil  war  which  now  desolates 
the  land  may  be  but  a  punishment  inflicted  upon  us  for  our  presumptuous 
sins,  to  the  needful  end  of  our  national  reformation  as  a  whole  people?  We 
have  been  the  recipients  of  the  choicest  bounties  of  heaven;  we  have  been 
preserved  these  many  years  in  peace  and  prosperity;  we  have  grown  in 
numbers,  wealth,  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown.  But  we 
have  forgotten  God.  We  have  forgotten  the  gracious  hand  which  preserved 
us  in  peace  and  multiplied  and  enriched  and  strengthened  us,  and  we  have 
vainly  imagined,  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  own  hearts,  that  all  these  blessings 
were  produced  by  some  superior  wisdom  and  virtue  of  our  own.  Intoxicated 
with  unbroken  success,  we  have  become  too  self-sufficient  to  feel  the  necessity 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


79 


of  redeeming  and  preserving  grace,  too  proud  to  pray  to  the  God  that 
made  us. 

"It  behooves  us,  then,  to  humble  ourselves  before  the  offended  Power, 
to  confess  our  national  sins,  and  to  pray  for  clemency  and  forgiveness. 

"Now,  therefore,  in  compliance  with  the  request,!  and  fully  concurring  in 
the  views,  of  the  Senate,  I  do  by  this  my  proclamation  designate  and  set  apart 
Thursday,  the  30th  day  of  April,  1863,  as  a  day  of  national  fasting  and  prayer. 
And  I  do  hereby  request  all  the  people  to  abstain  on  that  day  from  their 
ordinary  secular  pursuits,  and  to  unite  at  their  several  places  of  public  wor- 
ship and  their  respective  homes  in  keeping  the  day  holy  to  the  Lord  and 
devoted  to  the  humble  discharge  of  the  religious  duties  proper  to  that 
solemn  occasion. 

"All  this  being  done  in  sincerity  and  truth,  let  us  then  rest  humbly  in 
the  hope  authorized  by  the  divine  teachings  that  the  united  cry  of  the  nation 
will  be  heard  on  high  and  answered  with  blessings  no  less  than  the  pardon 
of  our  national  sins  and  the  restoration  of  our  now  divided  and  suffering 
country  to  its  former  happy  condition  of  unity  and. peace." 

THE  POWERS  OF  HEAVEN 

The  spirit  of  America,  the  spirit  of  Lincoln,  is  most  distinctively 
that  spirit  which  appeals  to  the  powers  of  heaven. 

Considering  now  a  time  more  recent,  have  you  not  all  read  the 
words  written  during  the  last  sixty  days  by  Calvin  Coolidge,  until 
recently  President  of  the  United  States?  He,  an  American  with  the 
American  spirit,  tells  us  just  what  he  did  when  he  learned  officially  of 
the  death  of  President  Harding.  The  word  came  to  him  in  the  night. 
He  says :  "I  arose  and  put  on  my  clothing" — and  then,  to  quote  his 
exact  words — "before  leaving  that  room  I  knelt  down  *  *  *  and 
asked  God  to  bless  the  American  people,  and  to  give  me  power  to  serve 
them."    That  act  illustrates  anew  the  spirit  of  our  country. 

One  month,  and  two  days  ago  today,  in  the  city  of  Washington,  I 
had  the  genuine  pleasure  of  listening  to  the  inaugural  address  of  Pres- 
ident Hoover.  His  closing  words  were:  "I  ask  the  help  of  Almighty 
God  in  the  service  of  my  country."  Do  we  not  find  in  these  words  the 
spirit  of  America?  That  spirit  is  found  not  only  in  words  that  were 
uttered  long  ago ;  for  these  words  express  the  actual  spirit  of  America 
today.    Our  land  has  been  made  sacred  by  the  prayers  of  its  people. 

ANOTHER  MODERN  INSTANCE 

Can  anyone  be  surprised,  therefore,  that  a  hundred  years  ago,  a  boy 
fourteen  years  old,  no  more,  seriously  religious,  and  given  to  reading 
the  scriptures,  was  led,  like  these  leaders,  by  the  same  American  spirit? 
For  when  he  came  to  the  words  of  Scripture  (James  1 :5),  "If  any  of 
you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  *  *  *  and  it  shall  be  given 
him,"  he  followed  this  advice  and  sought  his  Heavenly  Father  in  prayer. 

How  appropriate  it  was  that  in  this  religious  country,  following 
the  example  of  its  great  men,  he  should  go  straightway  into  the  sacred 
grove  and  there  make  his  appeal  to  the  Most  High. 

VISIONS  OF  LONG  AGO 

Saul  of  Tarsus,  afterwards  Paul  the  Apostle,  saw  a  light,  heard  a 


so 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


voice,  beheld  a  vision.  Since  visions  and  revelations  were  possible 
then,  are  they  not  possible  now?  To  those  who  accept  this  book  called 
the  Bible,  to  those  who  believe  its  words  concerning  Paul,  may  I  not 
ask  again :  Since  it  was  possible  for  him  to  hear  a  voice,  to  see  a 
light,  was  it  not  possible  for  this  boy,  believing  and  hoping,  also  to 
see  a  light,  to  hear  a  voice,  to  receive  a  vision  ?  We  hold  that  as  a 
result  of  this  boy's  visions,  the  inspiring  prophecies  I  quoted  at  the  be- 
ginning are  now  being  fulfilled. 

Consider  another  Scripture :  John  the  divine  heard  a  voice  that 
said :  "Come  up  hither,  and  I  will  show  thee  things  which  must  be 
hereafter." — -Rev.  4:1. 

This  is  a  strong  statement:  Not  things  that  may  be;  not  things 
that  will  probably  be;  but  "things  which  must  be  hereafter." 
John  adds  this  declaration : 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people." — Rev.  14:6. 

We  hold  that  the  fulfilment  of  that  prophecy  came  as  the  result 
of  an  appeal  made  by  a  boy  with  faith  believing,  as  he  knelt  in  the 
sacred  grove.  John  the  Revelator,  with  inspired  insight  had  the  vision, 
and  drew  the  picture ;  and  the  angel  he  beheld  has  flown  through  the 
midst  of  heaven,  bringing  the  everlasting  Gospel  to  be  preached  to  all 
people. 

IN  THE  TOPS  OF  THE  MOUNTAINS 

We  have  seen  that  Paul  saw  a  light,  heard  a  voice.  Joseph  Smith 
saw  a  light  and  heard  a  voice ;  and  as  a  result  of  his  vision  these 
prophecies  have  been  and  are  being  fulfilled. 

Let  us  now  return  to  the  two  quotations  referred  to  in  the  begin- 
ning: "And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days" — I  draw  attention 
to  "the  last  days" — "that  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  shall  be 
established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and  shall  be  exalted  above  the 
hills  ;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it." — Isaiah  2 :2. 

Over  the  radio  or  otherwise,  you  who  desire  to  know  something 
that  is  peculiar  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  may 
take  this  as  one  of  the  characteristic  things :  The  mountain  of  the  Lord's 
house  is  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains.  It  is  here,  exalted 
above  the  hills.  Unto  it  all  nations  have  already  come.  If  I  were 
to  call  the  names  of  all  the  nations  this  afternoon  and  were  to  ask 
those  to  stand  who  have  descended  from  people  of  these  various  nations. 
I  believe  there  would  be  a  demonstration  that  this  outstanding  prophecy 
has  been  and  is  being  fulfilled. 

THE  PRESENT  SPIRIT  OF  PEACE 

That  is  the  first  part.    Consider  now  the  second : 

"And  he  shall  judge  among  the  nations,  and  shall  rebuke  many  people: 
and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares,  and  their  spears  into 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


81 


pruning  hooks;  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall 
they  learn  war  any  more." — Isaiah  2:3,  4. 

That  also  is  a  prophecy  now  being  fulfilled.  Then  come  the  words 
already  referred  to :  "O  house  of  Jacob,  come  ye,  and  let  us  walk  in 
the  light  of  the  Lord." 

Our  papers,  our  literature,  our  magazines,  have  been  filled  during 
recent  years  with  articles  that  endeavor  to  point  out  the  way  to  peace. 
Peace  is  in  practically  every  issue.  In  the  Deseret  Nezvs  last  night  I 
noticed  an  article,  asking  whether  or  not  the  entrance  of  the  United 
States  into  the  World  Court  will  be  given  consideration  in  the  coming 
special  session  of  Congress.  The  League  of  Nations — see  what  it  is 
accomplishing.  Statesmen,  scholars,  educators,  men  of  money,  in  every 
country  are  struggling  to  bring  peace  to  the  world.  Clearly  in  ful- 
filment of  this  prophecy  are  the  following :  the  Locarno  pact,  a  marvel- 
ous step  forward  in  the  interest  of  peace;  the  effort  put  forth  by  the 
United  States  in  the  virile  words,  "The  outlawing  of  war,"  in  the 
Briand-Kellogg  peace  pact,  made  for  the  express  purpose  of  renouncing 
war ;  the  United  States  going  into  the  World  Court.  The  article  that 
I  read  last  night  indicates  that  the  President  of  the  United  States,  while 
he  has  publicly  expressed  no  definite  opinion,  has  such  an  intense  in- 
terest in  the  World  Court  that  the  new  formula  prepared  by  Elihu 
Root  and  the  jurists  of  the  nations  will,  without  doubt,  be  acceptable 
to  him. 

"in  the  last  days" 

In  all  this  we  are  not  talking  about  the  peace  of  one  nation,  nor  of 
a  few,  but  of  many  nations — all  the  countries  of  the  world,  the  jurists 
of  the  nations,  the  wise  men  of  our  day.  "In  the  last  days,  the  mountain 
of  the  Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains." 

The  Lord  is  to  judge  among  the  nations,  and  to  rebuke  many 
people.  They  are  to  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares,  their  spears 
into  pruning-hooks.  Nations  are  not  to  take  up  swords  against  nations 
any  more. 

This  is  the  place.  This  is  the  time.  This  is  the  Church.  These 
prophecies  are  being  fulfilled.  I  say  unto  you,  who  have  gathered  in 
the  top  of  the  mountains,  where  the  mountain  of  the  Lord's  house  is 
exalted  above  the  hills,  let  us,  in  the  language  of  Isaiah,  walk  together 
in  the  light  of  the  Lord,  that  we  may  be  united  and  walk  in  purity,  love, 
honesty,  and  truth;  that  all  prophecies  made  concerning  us  may  be 
fulfilled. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

The  sincere  prayer  in  my  heart  this  moment,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  is  that  I  may  be  inspired  and  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
to  say  something  to  you  that  will  comfort  you  if  you  mourn;  to  say 
something  that  will  encourage  you  if  you  are  discouraged.   "Thou  shalt 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart  *  *  *  and  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself."  Tf  each  individual  knows  and  feels  this  truth  to  be  funda- 
mental and  lives  it,  much  of  our  energy  will  be  released  to  develop  our 
gifts  and  spiritual  lives.  We  will  be  patient  with  our  neighbor's  faults 
and  excuse  them  as  we  do  our  own.  We  will  help  him ;  we  will  be 
kind  to  him ;  we  will  be  strictly  honest  in  our  dealings  with  him.  We 
will  live  a  life  that  will  be  an  example  to  him. 

We  have  this  afternoon  some  distinguished  visitors  from  Denmark, 
sitting  in  the  congregation.  We  bid  them  welcome  to  these  services. 
They  may  recall  that  above  the  gate  of  the  University  of  Denmark  at 
Copenhagen,  there  is  a  beautiful  eagle  with  out-stretched  wings.  Under- 
neath the  eagle  is  a  Latin  inscription  which  in  English  reads :  "The 
eagle  is  looking  toward  the  celestial  light."  A  lovely  and  inspiring 
thought  for  the  youth  of  Denmark.  So  we  too.  my  friends  are  looking 
toward  the  celestial  light;  we  are  humbly  striving  with  you  toward 
perfection. 

My  life's  work  has  brought  me  into  close  contact  with  the  youth; 
with  young  men  and  young  women  in  colleges  and  universities.  They 
wish  to  talk  honestly  about  what  life  has  meant  so  far,  and  what  it 
may  mean.  They  are  young,  intelligent,  cultured  people ;  but  many  of 
them  are  taking  no  part  in  a  spiritual  development  for  themselves ; 
nor  are  they  helping  others  in  this  regard.  They  need  awakening  re- 
ligiously. They  need  to  De  shown  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life ; 
and  then  be  given  an  opportunity  for  intelligent  expressional  activitv. 
They  must  be  converted  and  filled  with  a  spirit  of  influencing  their 
friends  and  companions  and  associates.  Besides,  these  young  people 
write  to  me  from  all  nations  and  tongues  for  help  and  information  and 
spiritual  guidance. 

I  meet  on  this  Temple  Block  mission  the  travelers,  the  tourists,  the 
students,  the  professional  people,  the  humble  individual  who  is  out  for 
pleasure.  All  are  eager  to  hear  the  message  of  Christ's  Gospel — the 
brotherly  Christian  religion.  They  all  want  to  know  the  history,  and 
the  religion  of  this  people.  Preachers  and  ministers  of  all  Christian 
sects  hear  us  and  invite  us  to  come  to  their  churches  in  their  cities 
and  speak  to  their  congregations.  I  have  had  invitations  to  speak  in 
many  cities  in  the  United  States  and  in  Europe,  Japan,  and  India.  The 
people  who  come  to  us  are  impressed  with  our  lives,  our  ideals,  our  re- 
ligion :  and  they  want  it  explained  to  their  followers.  They  want  us 
to  do  for  them  what  Paul  did  for  Timothy,  when  he  said: 

"Wherefore,  I  put  thee  in  remembrance  that  thou  stir  up  the  gift  of  God, 
which  is  in  thee  by  the  putting  on  of  my  hands. 

"For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear;  but  of  power,  and  of  love, 
and  of  a  sound  mind. 

"Be  not  thou  therefore  ashamed  of  the  testimony  of  our  Lord;  *  *  * 
but  be  thou  partaker  of  the  afflictions  of  the  gospel  according  to  the  power 
of  God; 

"Who  hath  saved  us,  and  called  us  with  an  holy  calling,  not  according 
to  our  works,  but  according  to  his  own  purpose  and  grace,  which  was  given 
us  in  Jesus  Christ  before  the  world  began." 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


83 


We  are  able  to  speak  plainly  with  the  people  of  the  world.  We  must 
proclaim  religion  as  a  way  of  life,  rather  than  a  set  of  ethical  mandates. 
As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  are  not  left  in  doubt  concerning  the  things 
that  really  spell  value  and  that  endure.  Unfortunately,  in  the  religious 
controversies  of  the  day,  secondary  issues  have  been  exalted  above  pri- 
mary truths.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  primary  truths  that 
must  forever  and  ever  regulate  human  souls  unto  divine  guidance. 
We  cannot  very  well  mistake  religion  so  long  as  it  upbuilds  and  makes 
the  Christian  man.  "Righteousness  anywhere  and  everywhere  is  the 
paramount  sovereign  and  effectual  witness  of  Christian  souls."  So  on 
this  Temple  Block  where  thousands  of  people  come  to  visit  us,  we  try 
to  show  with  love  for  God  and  his  children  that  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  upholds  the  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  priesthood  of  God  has  been  restored 
in  this  day.  This  cannot  help  being  the  inextinguishable  light  to  all 
nations  and  people. 

As  missionaries,  we  proclaim  religion  as  a  way  of  life,  rather  than 
a  set  of  ethical  mandates.  As  Latter-day  Saints  we  are  not  left  in  doubt 
concerning  the  things  that  really  spell  value  and  endure.  Unfortunately, 
in  the  religious  controversies  of  today,  secondary  issues  have  been 
exalted  above  primary  truths.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  primary 
truths  that  must  forever  regulate  souls  unto  divine  guidance.  We 
cannot  very  well  mistake  religion  so  long  as  it  upbuilds  and  makes  the 
Christian  man.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  upholds  the  witness  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  the  priesthood  of  God 
has  been  restored  in  this  day.  This  cannot  help  being  an  inextinguish- 
able light  to  all  nations  and  ages. 

I  think  we  should  proclaim  more  and  more  the  standard  Church 
works  which  are  the  Holy  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  In  them  do  we  find  the  prin- 
ciples of  eternal  life ;  and  the  holy  commandments  that  teach  us  to  love 
God,  and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves.  "Love  your  enemies,  *  *  * 
do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for  them  which  despitefully 
use  you."  In  these  books  do  we  have  the  superb  procession  of  idealists 
which  the  world  needs  today.  As  Latter-day  Saints,  we  should  know 
and  keep  ever  in  mind  the  teachings  of  the  Savior  of  mankind,  and  let 
Jesus  Christ  be  our  Guide  and  our  Light.  We  all  realize  that  life  is 
a  struggle,  and  is  filled  with  so  many  hardships  and  pains  ;  so  many 
sorrows  and  trials.  So  the  supreme  power  in  all  this  struggle  is 
prayer — the  turning  to  God  through  Jesus  Christ,  and  adding  the  force 
of  the  eternal  to  the  petty  cares  of  life. 

We  may  well  turn  to  our  sacred  books  from  now  on  more  and  more, 
and  receive  the  teachings  that  they  hold  for  us,  for  in  them  do  we  find 
eternal  life.    A  word  now  about  our  holy  books. 

The  Holy  Bible  contains  the  richest  and  most  enlightened  thought 
concerning  man  and  God  that  has  ever  been  written.  The  work  taken 
as  a  whole  teaches  the  fatherhood  of  God  and  the  great  plan  of  salva- 
tion for  the  human  race.   God  is  the  Creator  of  the  world  and  all  things 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


therein,  and  has  established  through  revelation  a  bond  of  divine  rela- 
tionship with  his  children. 

Great  prophets  like  Moses,  Isaiah,  Hosea,  Micah,  Jeremiah,  and 
Ezekiel  sought  to  raise  the  spiritual  life  of  the  times  in  which  they 
lived.  They  inspired  the  people  of  their  countries  to  believe  in  God, 
and  to  hope  for  a  Redeemer  of  the  world. 

The  Bible  tells  of  people  who  became  acquainted  with  each  other 
through  international  commerce  and  trade  with  foreign  civilization.  It 
tells  about  the  industrial  and  civic  life  of  peoples  of  ancient  days, 
and  how  they  kept  alive  a  monotheism,  and  morality  based  on  belief 
in  God.  They  had  the  highest  possible  idea  of  God,  who  gave  to  his 
servants  the  highest  knowledge  of  moral  and  religious  laws.  The  New 
Testament  comprises  the  writings  of  the  Apostles  and  disciples  of  Jesus 
Christ  our  Lord.  These  divinely  inspired  men  taught  the  Kingdom 
of  God  and  its  coming:  the  Fatherhood  of  God  and  the  infinite  value 
of  the  human  soul  and  the  higher  righteousness  and  the  law  of  love. 
These  are  all  to  be  obtained  by  obeying  the  laws  and  commandments  of 
God,  which  are  fundamentally,  faith  in  God  the  eternal  Father,  and  in 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost;  the  principles  of  repent- 
ance and  holy  baptism  by  immersion  by  one  having  divine  authority ; 
and  the  conferring  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  one 
holding  the  priesthood  of  God.  The  Bible  teaches  the  sanctity  of  the 
Church,  because  only  through  the  incorporation  of  religion  with  the 
Church  does  religion  gain  a  full  actuality  for  man.  The  Bible  is  the 
first  of  the  standard  works  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  teaches  that  the  same  Semitic  institutions 
which  the  forefathers  of  the  American  Indians  had  in  their  native 
country  in  Asia  were  brought  to  America,  and  under  new  environment 
and  conditions,  were  developed  in  this  land.  Like  the  Bible,  the  Book 
of  Mormon  makes  God  and  immortality  subjects  of  faith ;  and  public 
and  private  righteousness  matters  of  practice.  It  identifies  God  with 
the  principle  of  morality,  and  goes  farther  by  identifying  God  with  the 
story  of  human  progress  and  life,  in,  which  mankind  is  redeemed  from 
evil.  It  teaches  the  deeper  consciousness  between  the  Almighty  and  the 
individual  soul,  and  unfolds  the  divine  purpose  in  the  rise,  fall,  and 
progress  of  nations. 

The  Book  of  Mormon  tells  how  the  ancient  peoples  of  America 
built  cities  and  developed  a  rich  religious  and  political  life,  and  in  time 
how  Jesus  the  Christ  gave  his  teachings  to  the  people,  just  as  his 
message  of  salvation  was  given  to  the  Jews,  Greeks,  and  Romans.  The 
Church  of  'Christ  was  established  on  this  continent,  and  his  holy  priest- 
hood given  to  those  who  were  chosen  for  his  work.  Prophets  wrote 
the  history  of  the  people,  and  their  most  important  message  is  that 
God  is  the  Father  and  Creator  of  the  world  and  mankind. 

The  religious  teaching  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  monotheistic, 
and  embodies  the  revelations  of  God  to  his  people  on  this  the  American 
continent.    Likeness  to  God  is  its  supreme  aim,  and  the  highest  duty 


ELDER  LEVJ  EDGAR  YOUNG 


85 


of  man  is,  "Ye  shall  be  perfect,  even  as  your  Heavenly  Father  is 
perfect." 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price  embodies  the  visions  of  Moses  as  re- 
vealed to  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  in  1830.  It  also  comprises  the  Book 
of  Abraham  which  is  a  translation  of  some  ancient  records  from  the 
catacombs  of  Egypt,  to  which  are  added  the  writings  of  Joseph  Smith 
concerning  his  first  vision  and  revelation,  and  his  baptism  and  ordina- 
tion. The  principal  part  of  the  Book  of  Moses  treats  of  the  work 
of  God  in  the  creation  of  the  world  and  of  man.  God  is  the  Creator 
of  the  Universe  and  the  Father  of  the  race,  and  in  God's  image  man 
is  created. 

The  teachings  of  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  are  in  complete  harmony 
with  the  Holy  Bible.  Man  has  fallen  below  his  higher  self  and  the  divine 
principle  of  the  moral  law  has  been  lost.  There  is  the  same  pure 
monotheism,  the  same  personal  conception  and  moral  character  of 
God ;  and  his  command  to  his  children  to  recognize  the  supremacy  of 
the  law  of  salvation  through  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  It  shows  the 
importance  of  the  lofty  conception  of  one  living  God,  who  reveals 
himself  to  man  and  enters  into  gracious  relation  with  him  as  God  and 
Father. 

The  Pearl  of  Great  Price  gives  the  true  idea  of  the  nature  of 
God.  It  shows  how  God  became  an  intense  reality  in  the  minds  of  the 
ancient  Hebrews ;  and  the  sublime  central  thought  of  the  book  is  that 
man  does  not  search  after  God  alone,  but  God  draws  graciously  near 
to  man  and  manifests  himself  in  person  and  by  his  holy  influence. 

The  Doctrine  and  Covenants  contains  the  revelations  of  God  the 
Father  to  Joseph  Smith  and  other  prophets  of  God  in  this  dispensation. 
It  was  first  published  in  1835.  It  tells  about  the  restoration  of  the 
plan  of  God  in  the  salvation  of  the  human  race.  It  is  largely  ethical 
in  its  message,  and,  like  the  Book  of  Mormon,  makes  public  and  private 
righteousness  matters  of  practice.  The  book  opens  by  telling  of  a 
mighty  work  that  is  about  to  be  ushered  into  the  world.  This  is  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  with  the  giving  to  man  of  the 
holy  priesthood  of  God,  the  Aaronic  and1  Melchizedek,  as  it  existed  in 
the  days  of  the  prophets  of  Israel  and  at  the  time  of  Christ.  The  out- 
standing truth  of  the  book  is  that  God  is  identified  as  the  Father  of 
the  race,  and  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  restored  in  this  day  with  all 
its  gifts  and  blessings.  It  puts  the1  principle  of  righteousness  through 
obedience  to  the  plan  of  salvation  into  the  foreground ;  and  all  its  teach- 
ings grow  out  of  the  principle  that  for  man  to  attain  the  highest  de- 
velopment he  must  place  his  faith  in  God  the  eternal  Father,  and  in  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  receive  by  divine  authority 
the  priesthood  of  God.  It  also  emphasizes  the  importance  of  man's 
spiritual  life,  and  his  great  mission  on  earth;  as  well  as  the  glory  of 
immortality  and  the  power  of  eternal  progression  in  the  hereafter. 

May  we  go  on  with  life  more  unafraid,  and  come  to  a  realization 
of  our  best  selves.   I  pray  God's  blessing  upon  us  all.  Amen. 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  the  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  and  General  Aux- 
iliary Officers,  who  were  voted  upon  and  unanimously  sustained  as 
follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

lleber  T.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Kevelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthony  W.  Ivins,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
Charles  W.  Nihley,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Reed  Smoot  James  E.  Talmage 

George  Albert  Smith  Stephen  L.  Richards 

George  F.  Richards  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

David  O.  McKay  John  A.*  Widtsoe 

PRESIDING  PATRIARCH 

Hyrum  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  Presiding  Patriarch  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  SEVENTY 

Brigham  H.  Roberts 
Jonathan  G.  Kimball  j    Charles  H.  Hart 

Kulon  S.  Wells  Levi  Edgar  Young 

Joseph  W.  McMurrin  Rev  L.  Pratt 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 

TR  USTEE-I N-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant  as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson.  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  A  William  Lund,  Junius  F.  Wells. 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


87 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

Anthony  W.  Ivins  David  O.  McKay 

Charles  W.  Nibley  Stephen  L.  Richards 

Willard  Young  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Rudger  Clawson  John  A.  Widtsoe 

Orson  F.  Whitney  Adam  S.  Bennion 
Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Joseph  F.  Merrill 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Henry  H.  Rolapp  Peter  G.  Johnston 

Orval  W.  Adams 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Anthony  C.  Lund,  Conductor  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assist.  Conductor 

David  A.  Smith,  President  George  C.  Smith,  Secretary 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Alexander  Schreiner 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon  Frank  W.  Asper 

CLERK  OF  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Joseph  Anderson 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Julia  A.  Child,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

David  O.  McKay,  General  Superintendent 
Stephen  L.  Richards,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
George  D.  Pyper,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Supt. 
with  all  the  members  of1  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Albert  Smith,  General  Superintendent 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  1st  Asst.  Gen'l  Superintendent 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  2nd  Asst.  Gen'l  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


YOUNG  LADIES'   MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Ruth  May  Fox,  President 
Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  First  Counselor 
Clarissa  Beesley,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  President 
Sadie  G.  Pack,  First  Counselor 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

There  are  a  number  of  returned  mission  presidents  whom  we  would 
have  liked  to  hear,  but  time  will  not  permit. 

We  wish  to  state  that  Brother  Joseph  Wilford  Booth,  who  passed 
away  in  Armenia,  gave  seventeen  years  of  his  life  as  a  missionary  in 
that  section  of  the  country.  No  more  faithful,  God-fearing,  humble, 
splendid  man  have  we  had  pass  away  in  the  mission  field. 

Sister  Martha  Home  Tingey  has  given  most  splendid  work  as  the 
president  of  the  Young  Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Association  for 
many  years,  and  as  a  counselor  in  the  presidency  while  Sister  Elmina 
S.  Taylor  presided  for  many  years  previous  to  that  time.  She  retires 
with  the  love,  the  confidence  and  the  blessing  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church,  and  with  the  love  and  confidence  of  .all  the  members  of 
her  General  Board.  All  who  favor  extending  to  Sister  Tingey  a  vote 
of  appreciation  for  her  most  splendid  labors  will  manifest  it.  (The  con- 
gregation raised  their  right  hands.) 

I  think  the  hands  were  raised  higher  for  her  than  for  any  of  the 
rest  of  us. 

The  congregation  sang,  "Praise  God  from  Whom  all  Blessings 
Flow." 

The  dosing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  M.  Ezra  Sorensen,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Bannock  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  morning-,  April  7th,  1929,  at  10 
o'clock  a.  m.,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  presiding. 

All  the  seats  in  the  great  Tabernacle  were  taken,  and  the  aisles  of 
the  building  were  crowded  with  people  who  stood  during  the  services. 
Many  who  were  unable  to  get  inside  the  Tabernacle  listened  to  the 
services  as  they  were  broadcast  by  radio  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  the 
Tabernacle  grounds. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Praise  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah." 

President  Cliffored  E.  Young  of  the  Alpine  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem,  "The  Morning  Breaks,  the  Shadows 
Flee." 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  approach  this  task  in  fear  and 
trembling.  That  is  not  a  pleasantry  or  a  figure  of  speech ;  it  is  an  actual 
fact.  I  need  your  sympathy  and  faith,  and  the  sustaining  influence  that 
it  gives. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  TRUTH 

We  have  had  a  great  deal  of  excellent  instruction  during  our  con- 
ference. The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  accompanied  the  teachings  of  the 
elders,  from  the  President  of  the  Church  throughout  the  whole  list 
of  speakers.  I  have  noticed  that  there  has  run  through  their  teachings 
this  distinctive  thought,  that  it  is  only  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that 
the  Church  can  be  built  up.  I  would  like  to  read  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  a  few  words  in  respect  to  that  idea.  In  a  revelation  found  in 
Section  50,  commencing  at  the  17th  verse: 

"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  he  that  is  ordained  of  me  and  sent  forth  to  preach 
the  word  of  truth  by  the  Comforter,  in  the  Spirit  of  truth,  doth  he  preach  it 
hy  the  Spirit  of  truth  or  some  other  way? 

"And  if  it  be  by  some  other  way  it  is  not  of  God. 

"And  again,  he  that  receiveth  the  word  of  truth,  doth  he  receive  it  by  the 
Spirit  of  truth  or  some  other  way? 

"If  it  be  some  other  way  it  is  not  of  God. 

"Therefore,  why  is1  it  that  ye  cannot  understand  and  know,  that  he  that 
receiveth  the  word  by  the  Spirit  of  truth  receiveth  it  as  it  is  preached  by 
the  Spirit  of  truth? 

"Wherefore,  he  that  preacheth  and  he  that  receiveth,  understand  one 
another,  and  both  are  edified  and  rejoice  together. 

"And  that  which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is  darkness. 

"That  which  is  of  God  is  light;  and  he  that  receiveth  light,  and  con- 
tinueth  in  God,  receiveth  more  light;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  until 
the  perfect  day." 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  Lord  here  makes  it  plain  that,  in  bringing  converts  into  the 
Church,  the  teacher  must  have1  the  Spirit  of  the  Comforter,  the  Spirit 
of  truth,  the  light  of  truth.  And  the  one  that  receives  that  testimony 
must  also  partake  of  that  same  Spirit.  Both  then,  are  edified;  both 
are  enlightened  by  the  power  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  one  that 
teaches  and  the  one  that  receives. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  EVIL 

Science  has  pretty  nearly  banished  a  belief  in  the  devil  from  among 
thinking  people.  Irreligious  people  of  the  world  tell  us  "that  was  good 
enough  to  frighten  children  with,  a  hundred  years  ago  or  five  hundred 
year  ago ;  but  there  is  no  such  power  or  influence  in  the  world,  at 
all."  But  they  will  not  tell  us,  and  it  cannot  be  said,  that  evil  does 
not  exist.  The  origin  of  evil  has  been  discussed  by  thinkers  of  the 
world  for  many  hundreds  of  years ;  but  evil  is  still  here,  the  spirit  of 
evil  that  which  tempts  us  and  leads  us  away  from  righteousness.  That 
is  here,  whether  it  be  of  the  devil  or  not;  call  it  devil  or  satan,  or 
just  a  general  influence  extant  all  over  the  world.  The  spirit  of  good 
is  here,  too ;  the  spirit  of  righteousness  is  here ;  it  is  existant  over  the 
entire  earth,  and  I  suppose  in  the  universe  everywhere. 

CONTENDING  INFLUENCES 

So  these  two  contending  influences  are  here.  St.  Paul  said :  "When 
I  would  do  good,  evil  is  present  with  me."  Have  you  not  found  it  so? 
You  elders,  and  you  sisters  also,  in  governing  in  your  homes — yOu 
brethren  in  governing  in  your  wards  and  stakes  and  missions,  have  you 
not  found  the  spirit  of  evil  extant,  the  spirit  of  Satan  that  fights  against 
God  ?  He  is  not  yet  conquered ;  he  will  be  in  time.  We  are  told  in  the 
revelation  of  St.  John  that  when  we  pass  on  to  an  exalted  state  there 
will  be  no  death,  no  sorrow,  no  evil,  because  Satan  will  not  have  power 
to  tempt  the  saints  of  God  any  more  but  that  day  has  not  come  yet. 
That  evil  one  is  still  wrestling  with  us.  You  find  it  every  day.  A  man  goes 
to  the  bishop  to  settle  his  tithing.  He  figures  it  up  himself ;  he  settles 
it  in  his  own  mind.  Have  you  ever  felt  the  temptation,  something 
running  through  your  mind  like  this :  "Now,  I  gave  so  and  so  at  such 
and  such  a  time;  ought  I  not  to  take  that  out  of  my  tithing?"  If 
you  receive  a  call  to  go  on  a  mission,  have  you  note  felt :  "Well  now, 
I  have  been  on  a  mission ;  I  have  been  working  in  the  ward,  I  don't 
feel  that  I  can  go  on  a  mission  now?"  So,  all  through  the  activities  of 
life  and  the  activities  of  the  Church,  that  tempter  abides  more  or 
less  with  us,  except  as  we  banish  him  by  the  power  of  the  living  God, 
the  power  of  truth  by  which  we  receive  the  truth,  that  Spirit  which  I 
have  read  to  you,  that  Spirit  which  leads  to  life,  which  makes  me  say, 
or  you  say,  if  we  listen  to  it :  "Why,  of  course,  I  will  pay  my  full 
tithing.  Of  course  I  will  go  on  a  mission  if  you  brethren  want  me. 
That  is  first  all  the  time." 

IF  ONLY  TO  DECEIVE 

In  Los  Angeles  a  week  or  two  ago  I  counted*  in  a  newspaper  adver- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY  91 


tisement,  thirteen  different  churches  where  there  were  meetings  of  spirit- 
ualists ;  people  who  believe  that  we  are  operated  upon,  in  our  affairs,  by 
these  spiritualistic  influences.  We  are  told  that  they  do  have  some  kind 
of  communication  with  these  unseen  agencies  very  often.  There  have 
been  such  manifestations  for  many  years  in  the  world,  and  many 
notable  people  who  believe  in  them.  One  of  the  most  distinguished  of 
these,  a  great  scientist,  Sir  Arthur  Conan  Doyle,  lectured  on  the  subject 
from  this  stand.  We  heard  what  he  had  to  say,  but  he  brought  forth 
nothing  new.  I  don't  know  of  a  single  new  principle  distinctive  or  of 
value,  I  don't  know  of  any  truth  that  makes  for  the  upbuilding  and 
strengthening  and  the  betterment  of  mankind  that  has  come  from  that 
source.  And  yet  those  spirits  or  those  influences  may  sometimes  tell 
us  truths,  if  only  to  deceive  us.  Carlyle  said  of  Shakespeare  that  his 
intellect  was  the  greatest  that  this  world  has  yet  been  blessed  with, 
in  any  human  being :  and  Shakespeare  makes  Banquo  say  regarding  these 
spirits,  the  witches  that  appeared  to  Macbeth:  "But  'tis  strange  and 
oftentimes  to  win  us  to  our  harm  the  instruments  of  darkness  tell  us 
truths," — let  me  repeat  that  by  way  of  emphasis — "the  instruments 
of  darkness  tell  us  truths, — win  us  with  honest  trifles  to  betray  us  in 
deepest  consequence." 

In  another  scene  of  the  same  great  play  we  are  told  that  Mac- 
beth listened  to  the  voice  of  the  evil  one  through  these  same  witches 
who  led  him  on  and  on  toward  his  ruin,  until  he  saw  how  he  was 
being  deceived,  and  then  he  uttered  these  words :  "I  pull  in  resolu- 
tion and  begin  to  doubt  the  equivocation  of  the  fiend  who  lies  like  truth." 

GRACE  BEING  ADDED  TO  GRACE 

Not  so  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  the  Spirit  of  righteousness, 
the  Spirit  of  this  work  of  which  I  have  read.  It  leads  us  the  other 
way.  We  receive  the  truth,  and  more  than  the  truth  as  reasoned  out  by 
man.  We  receive  the  light  and  truth  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  of  the  Com- 
forter, which  leads  to  God.  Yet  have  we  not  at  times  had  some  expe- 
rience with  these  influences  that  are  trying  to  draw  us  away  from  the 
Lord,  influences  of  such  a  character  that  they  are  lying  like  truth? 
Against  them  we  are  constantly  warned  and  must  be  constantly  on  guard. 
They  will  deceive  the  very  elect,  if  it  is  possible,  if  we  listen  to  them. 
But  if  we  listen  to  the  other  power,  then  our  salvation  is  sure  and 
certain.  We  become,  as  I  have  read  to  you,  more  and  more  in  that 
spirit  which  leads  to  God,  grace  being  added  to  grace.  In  another  sec- 
tion, on  the  same  subject,  are  these  words: 

"I  give  unto  you  these  things  that  you  may  understand  and  know  how 
to  worship,  that  you  may  come  unto  the  Father,  in  my  name,  and  in  due 
time  receive  of  his  fulness." 

"For  if  you  keep  my  commandments  you  shall  receive  of  his  fulness,  and 
be  glorified  in  me  as  I  am  in  the  Father;  therefore,  I  say  unto  you,  you 
shall  receive  grace  for  grace." 

INTELLIGENCE  LIGHT  AND  TRUTH 

Then  can  we  say  truly :  "I  have  received  of  that  witness  and  testi- 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


mony,  that  I  know  this  is  the  work  of  God ;"  and  partake  of  that 
same  spirit  which  is  spoken  of  a  little  further  on  in  the  same  revelation : 
"The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence" — not  merely  intelligence  as  we  under- 
stand intelligence — but  "in  other  words,  light  and  truth."  What  kind  of 
light  and  truth?  What  kind  of  intelligence?  Is  it  the  intelligence  which 
men  acquire  and  which  we  perhaps  think  is  comprised  in  book  learning, 
or  the  intelligence  which  the  natural  man  is  capable  of  acquiring?  No, 
not  at  all.  The  glory  of  God  is  that  intelligence  which  comprises  light 
and  truth.  What  does  this  light  and  truth  do  for  us  ?  "Light  and  truth 
forsake  that  evil  one."  That  is  the  kind  of  intelligence ;  that  is  the 
kind  of  light  and  truth  that  is  meant — that  which  forsakes  evil  and 
cleaves  to  good.  And  so  the  wayfaring  man,  the  unlettered  man,  may 
receive  that  Spirit  of  light  and  intelligence  which  pertains  to  the  glory 
of  God,  and  be  filled  with  it.  Obeying  all  the  commandments  of  God 
he  is  more  intelligent  than  those  even  though  they  may  be  learned,  who 
do  not  partake  of  that  Spirit.  A  man  with  that  intelligence  can  be  taken 
on  and  on  until  he  receives  a  fulness  of  glory,  and  he  becomes  like 
unto  God. 

IN  NO  OTHER  WAY 

Now,  I  want  to  say,  in  closing,  that  the  presidency  of  this  Church, 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  Seventies,  the  leading  brethren  in  the  stakes 
and  wards  and  missions,  can  build  up  this  Church  only  by  the  Spirit 
about  which  I  have  read  to  you.  In  no  other  way  can  it  be  built  up ; 
assuredly  not  by  the  spirit  of  man.  Churches  may  be  established. 
Lodges  may  be  organized,  many  organizations  formed  for  the  help 
and  benefit  of  man — and  many  of  them  do  much  good  too,  and  are 
praiseworthy;  but  they  have  not  this  distinctive  feature  that  this 
Church  has,  which  was  revealed  in  the  beginning  and  is  emphasized, 
iterated  and  reiterated  all  through  the  revelations,  namely,  that  with- 
out that  Spirit  of  light  and  truth,  that  Spirt  of  the  Lord,  that  Spirit 
of  the  Comforter,  that  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  his  Church  cannot  be 
built  up.  If  it  be  attempted  by  any  other  way  than  the  Lord  speaks 
of  here  in  the  passages  which  I  have  read,  then  it  is  not  of  God. 
So,  my  brethren  and  isisters,  let  us  take  it  to  heart ;  all  of  us  who  labor 
for  Zion  must  know  and  understand  that  we  must  keep  that  in- 
fluence and  that  power  which  comes  from  God  in  our  hearts,  the 
light  of  his  Spirit  burning  in  our  souls.  It  is  illustrated  in  what 
Brother  Harris  said  last  night  in  the  priesthood  meeting,  and  what 
we  have  often  heard,  respecting  what  President  Young  told  Brother 
Karl  G.  Maeser  when  he  sent  him  to  take  charge  of  the  Brigham 
Young  Academy  at  Provo.  President  Young  said:  "Brother  Maeser, 
I  don't  want  you  to  try  to  teach  even  the  multiplication  table  without 
the  Spirit  and  influence  of  the  power  of  God." 

You  brethren,  you  sisters — sisters  of  the  Relief  Society,  those  at 
the  head1  of  it,  and  the  sisters  of  the  Primary,  and  the  Young  Ladies 
— you  brethren  in  all  the  quorums  of  priesthood,  let  us  get  this  into 
our  hearts,  minds  and  souls,  that  we  are  charged  with  the  responsi- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY 


93 


bility  to  oversee  some  portion  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  Get  this 
into  our  hearts,  that  by  the  Spirit  of  the  living  God,  and  only  by  that 
power  and  Spirit,  can  this  work  grow  and  prosper  and  be  established. 
That  power  and  Spirit  does  not  come  from  the  wisdom  of  man.  It 
pertains  to  the  glory  of  God,  which  is  intelligence,  the  kind  of  in- 
telligence which  forsaketh  that  evil  one.  May  we  keep  that,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  in  our  minds  firmly;  get  it  rooted  in  our  hearts 
and  souls;  and  then  work  in  humility,  in  faith,  and  he  will  increase 
our  power,  by  which  means,  as  I  have  read  to  you,  we  will  be  helped 
to  go  from  grace  to  grace  until  we  become  filled  with  that  Spirit  to 
the  fulness  of  power  and  glory,  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  power  which 
forsakes  that  evil  one  to  walk  in  the  light  of  God's  countenance,  to 
his  glory  and  honor.  By  that  influence  and  power,  and  by  none  other, 
will  this  work  prosper  and  his  kingdom  come. 

The  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  pray,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

It  is  a  cause  of  rejoicing  to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be 
privileged  to  meet  with  you  in  this  grand  conference.  The  instructions 
that  have  been  given  and  the  spirit  and  power  that  have  been  manifest 
have  been  a  source  of  great  joy  and  satisfaction  to  me. 

I  am,  very  grateful  for  the  fellowship  of  my  brethren  of  the  First 
Presidency  and  the  other  General  Authorities,  and  of  "these  brethren  who 
preside  in  the  stakes  and  wards,  and  of  all  the  members  of  this  Church. 
I  rejoice  in  the  faith  and  devotion  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the 
spirit  of  love  and  kindliness  which  characterizes  their  lives  and  actions. 

VITAL  STATISTICS  KNOWN  ABROAD 

In  President  Grant's  opening  discourse  he  cited  some  vital  statistics 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  In  listening  to  them  I  was  reminded  of  the 
fact  that  these  statistics,  which  are  collected  by  the  Church,  are  recog- 
nized abroad.  For  instance,  President  Grant  called  attention  to  the 
fact  that  our  birth  rate  is  about  30  per  thousand,  and  our  death  rate 
about  7.5  per  thousand.  I  think  that  during  the  past  year  it  was  7.8 
per  thousand.  For  the  last  three  or  four  years  previously  the  ratio 
has  been  about  four  births  per  death. 

Recently,  Dr.  Max  Haenle  of  the  University  of  Erlangen,  Germany, 
who  had  been  visiting  in  the  United  States  for  some  time,  called  upon 
us  and  told  us  that  a  number  of  the  prominent  sociologists  of  Germany 
were  interested  in  these  figures  and  could  hardly  believe  that  among  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  or  among  any  people,  there  could  be  such  a  high 
ratio  of  births  to  deaths.  Because,  ordinarily,  where  people  have  a 
high  birth  rate  they  also  have  a  high  death  rate. 

EXTENT  OF  CHARITY  ASSISTANCE 

President  Grant  also  referred  in  his  discourse  to  the  work  that  is 
being  done  by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  the  way  of  charity  and  the  dis- 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tribution  of  funds  for  the  welfare  of  those  in  need.  I  should  like  this 
morning"  for  a  few  moments  to  discuss  some  phases  of  this  work  that 
is  being  carried  on  by  the  Church. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  while  he  was  upon  the  earth,  stressed  the 
importance  of  helping  those  who  are  in  need.  In  these  latter  days, 
through  the  revelations  of  the  Lord,  it  has  been  made  plain  to  us 
that  the  poor  should  be  looked  after ;  and  that  we  should  give  of  our 
means  to  help  them.  There  should  be  manifest  on  our  part  proper 
consideration  and  interest  in  the  welfare  of  others. 

FASTING  AND  FAST  DONATIONS 

In  this  connection  I  would  like  to  call  your  attention  to  the  im- 
portance of  a  principle  that  I  believe  we  are  neglecting.  That  is  the 
principle  of  fasting  and  the  giving  of  fast  donations.  The  reports  of 
the  Church  as  a  whole  last  year  indicate  that  the  average  per  capita 
fast  offering  was  twenty-two  cents  per  year.  This  is  based  on  the 
total  membership.  Actually  about  one-eighth  of  the  members  paid  fast 
donations,  and  the  average  amount  for  those  who  donated  was  $1.70 
per  capita  for  the  year.  I  am  inclined  to  think  that  many  of  us  are 
failing  to  observe  the  principle  of  fasting.  Fasting  in  moderation  is  a 
sound  health  principle.  It  is  also  a  principle  that  promotes  faith  and 
spirituality.  It  is  a  powerful  means,  in  connection  with  prayer,  for 
the  gaining  of  desired  blessings.  The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  emphasized 
this  fact.  Also,  in  the  revelations  given  to  us  in  these  days,  he  has 
declared  that  fasting  and  prayer  will  bring  results  that  otherwise  may 
not  be  obtained.  If  every  one  of  us  were  to  fast  and  were  to  give  the 
equivalent  in  value  of  our  fast  one  day  per  month  it  would  provide 
sufficient  means  in  the  Church  to  take  care  of  all  those  who  are  in  need. 
I  believe  that  if  this  same  principle  were  observed  throughout  the 
United  States  there  would  be  ample  funds  to  provide  for  all  the  charity 
requirements  of  the  nation.  I  am  sure  that  when  we  fast  our  liearts  are 
more  open  to  consider  those  who  are  in  need.  I  commend,  therefore, 
to  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  to  the  presidents  of  stakes  -and  bishoprics 
of  wards  the  importance  of  stressing  the  observance  of  the  fast  day 
and  of  directing  the  thoughts  and  minds  of  the  people  towards  those 
things  that  are  for  the  mutual  welfare  and  blessing  of  the  Church  as 
a  whole. 

THE  CHURCH  AND  SOCIAL  WELFARE 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  recognized  by  the  people  of  the  world 
as  being  greatly  interested  in  the  welfare  of  those  who  are  in  need. 
We  are  giving,  I  believe,  in  porportion  to  our  membership,  more  at- 
tention and  greater  service  to  those  who  are  in  need  of  help  than  any 
other  community  in  all  the  world. 

I  am  reminded  of  a  statement  that  was  made  by  a  rather  prom- 
inent official  who  came  here  some  time  ago, — a  representative  of  one  of 
the  prominent  national  welfare  organizations.  He  made  some  investi- 
gations in  this  city  and  state,  and  after  his  return  east  he  wrote  a  letter 
of  which  the  following  is  an  extract : 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


95 


'The  Church  is  certainly  doing  a  great  deal  for  its  people  and  I  would 
like  to  say  to  you  some  things  that  I  have  said  ever  since  my  return  to  New 
York— I  believe  that  your  Church  group  as  a  whole  has  the  most  socialized 
outlook  on  welfare  matters  of  any  group  with  which  I  have  come  in  contact." 

RESPONSIBILITY  FOR  THOSE  IN  NEED 

As  the  Lord  has  given  this  responsibility  to  the  Church  of  looking  . 
after  those  who  are  in  need,  we  recognize  the  importance  of  it.    Yet  the 
primary  responsibility  for  the  welfare  and  care  of  those  in  need  is  not 
upon  the  Church.    You  remember  the  Apostle  Paul  said  upon  one 
occasion : 

"But  if  any  provide  not  for  his  own,  and  specially  for  those  of  his  own 
house,  he  hath  denied  the  faith,  and  is  worse  than  an  infidel." 

Net  only  the  moral  responsibility  rests  upon  those  who  are  related 
to  the  family  proper,  to  take  care  of  those  who  are  in  need,  but  in  this 
state  at  least,  the  legal  responsibility  rests  upon  them  to  take  care  of 
their  relations.  I  can  hardly  conceive  of  parents,  who  have  the  means, 
expecting  the  Church  or  the  state  to  take  care  of  their  children  who 
may  be  in  need.  Nor  can  I  see  how  children  who  have  means  can  feel 
that  the  Church  or  the  state  should  be  responsible  for  the  care  of  their 
parents  if  they  are  in  need.  In  this  connection  let  me  state  that  statistics 
show  that,  generally  speaking,  those  Latter-day  Saints  who  observe  the 
principle  of  tithing  are  less  dependent  in  their  old  age  than  are  those 
who  are  not  faithful  in  the  observance  of  this  commandment.  Next  to 
the  relatives,  the  state  law  recognizes  that  the  counties  are  responsible 
for  the  care  of  the  poor. 

DANGERS  OF  INDISCRIMINATE  GIVING 

The  Church,  while  it  has  no  legal  responsibility,  does  undertake 
to  supervise  and  to  help  to  see  that  no  one  suffers.  That  is  the  spirit 
of  this  work.  It  is  important  that  in  our  charity  work  we  should  learn 
how  to  act  in  such  a  way  as  to  promote  the  greatest  welfare  of  those 
who  are  in  need,  and  at  the  same  time  to  avoid  that  indiscriminate  giving 
which  tends  to  cause  dependence  rather  than  promote  independence.  The 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  and  the  policy  of  the  Church  have  always  been  to 
try  to  help  people  to  help  themselves,  to  endeavor  to  place  them  in  a 
position  where  they  can  be  relieved  of  dependence  and  of  difficulty  and 
secure  conditions  which  will  promote  progress  and  prosperity. 

FAMILY  THE  BASIC  UNIT 

The  family  is  the  basic  unit  of  society  and  of  the  Church.  We 
should  all  strive  to  maintain  happy  normal  families  to  the  end  that 
there  may  be  perfect  unity,  happiness  and  peace,  and  that  the  religious 
influence  and  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  may  prevail  in  all  these  homes. 

CARE  OF  ORPHANS  AND  DEPENDENT  CHILDREN 

Among  other  things  the  care  of  the  orphan  is  upon  us  as  well  as 
upon  the  state.   Of  course  the  responsibility  rests  primarily  upon  public 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


institutions.  We  recognize  the  fact,  however,  that  it  is  better  that 
orphan  children  should  be  placed  in  foster  homes  than  in  institutions. 
In  general  it  is  found  that  a  home  is  far  better  for  a  child  than  any 
institution  can  be.  And  so,  with  the  approval  of  the  First  Presidency 
and  in  a  modest  way,  we  are  inaugurating  the  policy  of  endeavoring 
to  take  care  of  orphan  boys.  We  are  also  seeking  to  find  foster  homes 
for  negiected  children  who  cannot  be  properly  taken  care  of  in  their  own 
homes.  This  is  being  done  in  co-operation  with  the  Relief  Society.  We 
have  the  Lund  Home  for  boys  and  are  undertaking  now  to  make  that 
more  of  a  clearing  house  for  boys  than  an  institution  where  they  will 
be  kept  continuously  for  long  periods.  We  are  trying  to  place  them 
in  suitable  homes  with  kind  and  loving  foster  parents,  members  of  the 
Church,  who  will  seek  to  train  them  in  righteousness  and  have  an  in- 
fluence over  them  in  the  home  that  they  cannot  obtain  elsewhere.  In 
like  manner  we  are  planning  to  help  orphan  girls,  or  those  who  are 
dependent  or  neglected,  to  place  them  in  other  suitable  homes  if  they 
cannot  be  taken  care  of  in  their  own  homes. 

REQUIREMENTS  FOR  NORMAL  FAMILY  LIFE 

Students  of  social  welfare  recognize  five  essential  factors  to  a 
normal,  happy  family  life.  These  factors  are,  first,  health;  second,  em- 
ployment ;  third,  education ;  fourth,  recreation ;  and  fifth,  spiritual  wel- 
fare. The  causes  of  po\erty  may  be  various  unfavorable  conditions 
such  as  sickness,  unemployment,  infirmity,  improvidence,  injury  or 
mental  or  physical  deficiency.  Now  we  are  concerned  in  the  Church 
with  seeing  to  it  that  so  far  as  possible  all  those  who  are  in  need  are 
aided  to  gain  permanent  relief.  Not  that  they  should  be  given  financial 
help  only,  but  have  other  careful  attention.  An  investigation  should  be 
made  in  kindliness,  in  sympathy  and  wisdom,  and  under  the  influence 
of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  as  expressed  by  President  Nibley  this  morn- 
ing, to  determine  what  their  needs  may  be.  If  they  are  suffering  from 
ill  health  we  should  provide  suitable  medical  or  nursing  care  and  see  also 
that  they  receive  the  healing  ordinances  of  the  Gospel.  If  they  are 
lacking  employment  we  should  try  to  obtain  suitable  employment  for 
them  through  the  co-operative  supervision  of  the  Bishopric  and  the 
Relief  Society,  tfn  case  of  improvidence,  if  people  are  spending  more 
than  they  earn,  of  course  that  spells  ruin, — it  means  failure.  It  is 
important  that  they  should  be  taught  how  to  budget  their  accounts.  As 
President  Nibley  has  sometimes  said,  they  must  spend  less  than  they 
earn.  Otherwise  they  cannot  expect  to  make  progress  and  gain  success. 
If  they  are  lacking  in  education  we  should  plan  ways  and  means  for 
them  to  gain  education.  Also  it  is  very  desirable  that  proper  recreation 
shall  be  provided  the  membership  that  they  shall  be  trained  in  spiritual 
things  and  become  established  in  the  truth  of  the  Gospel. 

VOCATIONAL  TRAINING 

With  regard  to  the  matter  of  employment,  it  seems  to  me  that  the 
training  of  our  young  people  generally  in  vocational  education, — in  the 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


97 


learning  of  trades  and  professions —is  of  vital  importance.  We  find 
that  many  of  -  those  who  seek  employment  are  without  any  specialized 
training,  and  yet  this  is  an  age  of  specialization.  Increasing  special- 
ization is  being  required  in  all  of  the  various  vocations  and  professions. 
It  is  a  wonderful  thing  for  our  young  people  to  be  trained  and  developed 
in  those  lines  of  activity  whereby  they  may  be  able  to  gain  a  useful, 
successful  livelihood,  and  make  steady  progress  in  the  affairs  of  life. 

PROVIDING  OF  EMPLOYMENT 

Responsibility  rests  upon  the  various  agencies  to  endeavor  to  secure 
and  provide  employment  for  those  in  need.  In  times  of  slack  private 
industrial  undertakings  and  enterprises,  it  is  the  responsibility  of  the 
cities  and  counties  and  states,  to  provide  public  work  for  those  who  are 
in  need  in  order  to  avoid  having  to  give  help  without  return.  Other- 
wise, people  become  dependent  and  do  not  develop  the  responsibility 
that  they  should  carry.  The  dole  system  in  England  is  evidence  of  the 
kind  of  policy  that  is  wrong  in  principle.  On  the  other  hand,  if  pro- 
vision can  be  made  for  more  extensive  public  work  in  slack  times  by 
the  public  corporations,  a  great  deal  can  be  done  to  help  men  to  help 
themselves  and  to  make  them  feel  that  independence  which  everyone 
ought  to  have. 

BISHOPRICS,  RELIEF  SOCIETY,  AND  SOCIAL  SERVICE 

Now,  with  regard  to  the  matter  of  investigation  of  those  in  need: 
We  feei  that  it  is  very  desirable  that  the  bishoprics  throughout  the 
Church  call  upon  the  Relief  Societies  to  assist  them  by  rendering  that 
service  for  which  they  are  preparing  under  the  direction  of  the  General 
Board  of  Relief  Society.  Every  case  of  need  should  be  investigated 
carefully,  tactfully  and  sympathetically.  Following  the  investigation 
the  bishopric  and  Relief  Society  can  determine  what  is  needed  to  relieve 
the  conditions,  thereupon  the  form  of  relief  needed  should  be  provided. 
It  should  be  kept  in  mind  that  while  the  Church  agencies  are  doing  all 
of  this  work,  any  financial  help  should  first  be  sought  from  those  who 
are  responsible  therefor. 

We  are  desirous  that  in  all  of  the  wards  throughout  the  Church  the 
officers  of  the  Relief  Society  who  are  being  trained  in  the  essentials 
of  social  welfare  work,  in  common  sense  and  good  judgment,  shall,  in 
kindliness,  endeavor  to  help  those  who  are  in  need  to  solve  their 
problems,  in  order  that  they  may  become  more  useful  and  successful 
members  of  the  Church  and  of  society.  I  am  sure  that  every  one  of 
us  realizes  the  importance  of  striving  to  so  prepare  ourselves,  and  to  so 
qualify  for  the  labors  of  ltfe,  that  we  may  be  able  not  only  to  be  free 
of  any  help  from  the  Church,  but  that,  on  the  contrary,  we  may  be 
able  to  be  of  service  to  the  Church  in  a  spiritual  way,  and  also  to  help 
in  a  financial  way  to  advance  the  purposes  which  the  Lord  has  in 
view  ill  the  formation  of  this  great  work.  It  requires  not  only  labor,  it 
requires  also  means.  If  every  one  of  us  can  qualify'  and  be  placed  in 
such  position  that  we  can  help  rather  than  be  helped  we  shall  feel  much 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


happier.  Wei  shall  rejoice,  the  Lord  will  blesa  us,  and  we  will  go  for- 
ward as  united,  happy  families.  I  desire  to  suggest  therefore,  that  if 
the  bishoprics  of  wards  will  place  greater  responsibility  upon  the  Relief 
Society,  under  their  direction,  they  will  be  relieved  of  much  detail.  At 
the  same  time  the  Relief  Society  can  function  in  one  of  the  great  ob- 
jectives for  which  this  organization  has  been  formed. 

DEVELOPMENT  OF  INDUSTRIES 

In  order  to  provide  more  employment  we  need  more  industries. 
We  should  all  seek  in  cur  various  communities  to  develop  those  in- 
dustries that  shall  be  for  the  welfare  of  the  people  and  for  our  own 
progress  and  prosperity.  So  far  as  possible  no  raw  material  should  be 
shipped  out  from  our  midst.  We  should  take  the  available  raw  ma- 
terials and  put  them  in  finished  state  for  consumptive  use.  If  we  will 
do  these  things  we  will  be  prospered  and  blessed,  and  greater  headway 
will  be  made,  and  greater  satisfaction  prevail  in  the  various  communities 
of  the  Church. 

Our  ideal  in  all  these  efforts  should  be  generally  to  secure  happy, 
prosperous,  religious  homes.  That  the  Lord  may  help  and  bless  us  to 
sense  our  responsibility,  that  we  may  endeavor  to  act  wisely  in  all 
these  things,  and  partake  of  the  spirit  and  power  of  the  Gospel,  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  duet,  "An  Angel  from  on  high,"  was  sung  by  Cyril  Martin  and 
Ida  Hepworth,  the  choir  joining  with  them  in  singing  the  chorus. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

As  I  have  anticipated  the  discharging  of  this  great  responsibility 
my  mind  has  continually  dwelt  upon  the  value  of  true  religion  and  of 
right  thinking  as  the  important  factor  in  a  truly  religious  life. 

I  was  pleased  to  hear  President  Grant  in  his  all  too  brief  address 
at  the  opening  of  this  conference  stress  the  necessity  of  religion  in  life. 
I  am  in  perfect  accord  with  all  he  said  and  with  the  entire  proceedings 
of  this  Conference. 

TRUE  RELIGION 

I  believe  that  the  most  important  need  of  the  world  today  is  true 
religion. 

True  religion  has  three  manifestations ;  first,  the  thought,  the 
feeling,  the  mental  and  spiritual  attitude  of  the  individual  toward  his 
God;  second,  worship;  and  third,  [service  to  one's  fellows.  Evidently 
a  man  may  conform  to  the  outward  forms  of  worship  yet  not  be  re- 
ligious. But  a  man  must  be  religious  if  he  direct  his  thoughts  and  his 
words  towards  God  and  let  his  worship  and  acts  among  his  fellows 
follow  in  accordance  therewith. 

WRONG  THINKING 

Charles  Foster  Kent  in  his  Life  of  Jesus,  speaks  of  "The  Fatal 
Crime  of  Wrong  Thinking;"  and  approximately  two  thousand  years 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


99 


ago  one  of  the  greatest  leaders  and  one  of  the  ablest  and  wisest  of 
men  said :  "As  a  man  thinketh  in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  No  one  emphasizes 
this  truth  more  strongly  than  did  Jesus.  "With  him,"  says  Kent,  "the 
deadly  sins  were  not  neglect  of  the  ritual,  nor  even  crime  punishable 
by  the  laws  of  all  civilized  nations,  but  wrong  ideas,  motives  and  feel- 
ings. He  decried  the  fatal  effect  of  hatred  and  jealousy  in  the  mind  of 
the  individual  more  vehemently  than  he  did  the  act  that  hate  and 
jealousy  prompt." 

Let  me  cite  two  instances.  On  one  occasion  Jesus  said  regarding 
the  evil  effect  of  harboring  anger: 

"Ye  have  heard  that  it  was  said  by  them  of  old  Thou  shalt  not  kill; 
and  whosoever  shall  kill  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  judgment; 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  That  he  who  is  angry  with  his  brother  without 
a  cause  shall  be  in  danger  of  the  judgment." 

Thus  the  Savior  emphasized  the  fatal  effect  of  wrong  thinking.  He 
knew  that  if  the  mind  could  be  directed  rightly,  if  the  evil  thought  and 
tendency  could  be  resisted,  as  President  Nibley  mentioned  this  morning, 
the  evil  act  would  be  minimized.  Jesus  does  not  lessen  the  seriousness  of 
these  acts,  or  say  that  we  should  not  punish  them,  but  he  emphasizes 
the  greater  need  of  keeping  the  thoughts  clean,  the  mind  pure.  An  evil 
tree  will  bring  forth  evil  fruit ;  a  good  tree  will  bring  forth  good  fruit. 
Keep  the  tree  pure,  the  thoughts  pure,  and  the  fruit  will  be  pure  and 
the  life  pure. 

Again,  he  decried  the  evil  of  cherishing  anger. 

"If  thou  bring  thy  gift  to  the  altar,  and  there  rememberest  that  thy 
brother  hath  ought  against  thee; 

"Leave  there  thy  gift  before  the  altar,  and  go  thy  way;  first  be  reconciled 
to  thy  brother." 

Note  how  that  is  worded : 

"If  thou  rememberest  that  thy  brother  hath  ought  against  thee" — not 
only  if  thou  hast  ought  against  thy  brother. 

A  double  meaning  in  that.  A  man  at  the  altar  who  would  truly 
keep  his  life  in  harmony  with  the  fundamental  principle  of  religion 
should  go  to  his  brother  who  might  be  harboring  ill  will  against  him, 
and  before  rendering  the  act  of  worship,  seek  understanding  and  re- 
conciliation. In  similar  phrases  the  Savior  emphasizes  time  and  time 
again  the  necessity  of  thinking  right  and  the  evil  of  wrong  thinking. 
This  is  the  case  in  his  admonition  not  to  condemn  one  another :  "Judge 
not  (or  condemn  not)  that  ye  be  not  condemned." 

Nov/,  brethren  and  sisters,  these  illustrations  will  suffice  to  em- 
phasize the  point  I  have  in  mind,  that  in  true  religion,  the  fundamental 
thing  isi  to  keep  our  thoughts  right  towards  our  God  and  towards  our 
fellow  men. 

UNSTABLE  OPINIONS 

Now  what  are  the  sinful  influences  around  us  that  tend  to  divert 
young  people's  minds,  from  this  right  channel?  We  are  living  in  an  age 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


which,  measured  by  the  standards  of  the  Gospel,  is  full  of  unstable 
opinions;  and  into  that  world  of  shifting  uncertainty  our  young  people 
are  thrown.  Think  for  a  moment  how  their  thoughts  are  diverted  from 
our  standards  as  they  read  some  of  the  articles  in  current  magazines. 

From  a  leading  magazine  of  the  last  month,  I  have  culled,  just  at 
random,  this  in  relation  to  religion : 

Academic  scholars  who  are  shaping  the  thoughts  of  youth  are  de- 
claring that  one  religious  faith  is  just  as  good  or  just  as  useless,  ac- 
cording to  the  professor's  particular  viewpoint,  as  another.  "Buddhism, 
Hinduism,  Judaism,  Christianity,  all  spring  from  the  same  source,  and 
in  the  ultimate  analysis  mean  the  same  thing." 

That  is  one  of  the  things  which  I  call  unstable,  and  which  threaten 
young  people  with  an  influence  that  will  throw  them  into  the  fatal  crime 
of  wrong  thinking.  In  customs,  and  fashions,  what  was  considered 
bad  taste  yesterday,  has  become  quite  acceptable  today. 

In  regard  to  the  ideals  of  success  and  the  standards  that  lead 
to  success,  I  quote  this  surprising  statement : 

"Success  is  not  the  result  of  hard  work,  clean  living  and  personal  integrity. 
The  vulgar,  proud  and  haughty,  not  the  meek,  inherit  the  earth." 

Young  men  and  young  women  read  those  things,  and  their  minds 
are  diverted  from  the  channel  of  right  thinking  and  right  living.  Un- 
stable opinions,  shifting  uncertainties ! 

SINFUL  INFLUENCES 

Again  the  wholesomeness  of  our  ancestral  home-life  is  questioned. 
That  thought  too  is  leading  our  young  people  to  think  in  a.  wrong 
direction. . 

Modesty,  "that  diamond  setting  to  female  beauty/'  is  in  some 
circles  considered  prudish,  puritanic;  and  the  influence  is  leading  astray 
some  of  our  girls  who  are  susceptible  to  the  influence  of  society. 

Ride  along  the  highway,  see  the  obnoxious  and  sometimes  obscene 
advertisements,  how  they  flaunt  themselves  in  the  face  of  every  traveler ; 
and  even  obnoxious  advertisements  steal  into  our  homes  over  the  radio. 

Now,  the  important  question  with  us  today  is,  what  are  we  doing 
to  counteract  this  tendency  towards  fatal  wrong  thinking?  I  am  going 
to  name  onlv  three  common  phases  of  our  Church  which  I  think  are 
fundamental  toward  right  thinking  and  right  living. 

A  SENSE  OF  RESPONSIBILITY  TOWARD  OTHERS 

I  should  like  to  name  first  the  duty  that  rests  upon  every  parent 
and  upon  every  teacher  within  this  Church  to  arouse  within  the  mind 
of  the  child  a  sense  of  responsibility  toward  other  individuals  and  to- 
wards society.  The  sacredness  of  personality  is  a  fundamental  teaching 
of  Jesus  Christ.  One  great  writer  in  this  age,  Harry  Emerson  Fosdick, 
is  right  when  he  says,  "Christ  thought  of  personality  as  the  central 
fact  in  the  universe  and  used  it  as  a  medium  of  interpretation  of  all 
other  parts."  In  the  thought  he  approaches  the  more  sublime  teaching 
of  the  Lord  given  through  the  Prophet  Joseph : 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


101 


"This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man." 

In  this  truth  is  found  a  fundamental  principle  of  true  religion,  and 
it  touches  the  very  heart  of  the  government  of  society  and  the  peace 
of  the  home.  Let  the  child  in  the  home  realize  that  there  are  certain 
things  which  he  cannot  do  to  gratify  his  own  appetite,  if  in  doing  so 
he  brings  sorrow  or  inconvenience  to  other  members  of  the  household. 
A  sense  of  duty  to  others  should  be  a  governing  factor  in'  his  actions. 
Let  me  illustrate:  In  the  paper  the  other  morning  was  an  account  of  a 
tragedy  of  a  sixty-five  year  old  mother  who  ended  her  life  after  a 
struggle  of  years  to  keep  her  boy  from  the  clutches  of  the  law.  She 
did  save  him  until  just  the  other  day.  The  law  could  not  touch  him, 
and  she  spent  her  fortune  and  her  life  and  even  scrubbed  floors  of 
offices  to  gratify  that  boy's  selfishness  and  indulgence.  Well,  he  passed 
many  years  without  coming  in  contact  with  the  law,  but  the  crime  of 
wrong  thinking  was  his  years  ago  when  he  thought  that  that  mother 
should  sacrifice  herself  to  gratify  his  own  indulgence. 

O,  youth  of  the  land,  think  of  the  responsibility  of  keeping  your 
name  unsullied !  Think  of  bringing  comfort  and  happiness  to  the 
mother  who  bore  you !  There  is  the  fundamental  thought  that  will  lead 
you  towards  God  and  worship  in  true  religion.  He  is  a  recreant  indeed 
who,  to  gratify  his  appetite  or  his  passions,  will  bring  a  stain  upon  the 
honored  name  he  bears  or  sorrow  to  the  heart  of  his  mother.  If  a 
man  come  from  such  a  home,  with  such  right  thoughts  as  respecting 
the  rights  of  other  persons  and  of  society,  he  will  not  go  far  wrong  in 
his  acts  toward  his  fellowmen. 

PRAYER 

I  wish  to  name  as  the  second  principle  a  little  simple  thing  which 
even  in  the  naming  this  morning  will  indicate  to  you  perhaps  how  many 
have  wandered  from  it,  the  simple  principles  of  prayer.  There  are  men 
in  our  midst  who  say  that  prayer  is  not  efficacious.  Unfortunately 
some  of  our  young  people  believe  such  fallacious  remarks.  Prayer  is  a 
fundamental  principle  of  religion,  the  Christian  religion  particularly,  and 
prayer  is  a  force  for  good.  A  praying  man  is  a  growing  man.  He  is  a 
powerful  man,  as  we  have  heard  throughout  this  conference  already. 
Christ  said : 

"When  thou  prayest,  enter  into  thy  closet,  and  when  thou  hast  shut  thy 
door,  pray  to  thy  Father  which  is  in  secret;  and  thy  Father  which  seeth  in 
secret  shall  reward  thee  openly." 

It  is  said  of  a  superior  officer  in  the  great  war,  that  when  he  was  a 
youth  his  mind  had  been  so  diverted  from  the  truth  that  he  thought 
prayer  was  a  presumption.  One  day  he  found  himself  engaged  in  a 
conflict  in  which  earth  and  heaven  seemed  to  mix.  He  felt  his  senses 
reel,  and  in  the  midst  of  the  conflict  he  found  himself  crying  from  his 
heart:  "O  God,  let  me  not  lose  my  head,  for  my  men's  sake!"  He 
wrote  afterwards :  "That  prayer  was  answered,  and  the  D.  S.  O.  which 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  now  wear  is  the  result  of  God's  answering  that  prayer.  I  sometimes 
think  I  should  deposit  it  in  some  church,  but  when  I  look  at  that  bit 
of  ribbon  it  reminds  me  of  my  prayer." 

We  are  not  in  a  great  conflict  of  nations  as  were  that  soldier  and 
his  comrades;  we  are  not  seeking  the  life-blood  of  each  other,  but  I 
tell  you  every  day  that  we  start  out  on  our  daily  work  and  mingle 
with  our  fellows  we  enter  into  conflict,  and  it  is  the  appropriate  thing 
for  every  young  man  in  the  world  to  say  in  secret,  to  think  and  feel  in 
his  heart,  "O,  let  me  not  lose  my  head  this  day  as  I  meet  temptation, 
as  I  am  tempted  to  misjudge  my  fellows.  Keep  me  from  trespassing 
upon  the  rights  of  others." 

REVERENCE 

A  third  principle  that  contributes  to  right  religious  attitude  is 
reverence — reverence  for  the  Sabbath  day  and  all  things  sacred.  Rever- 
ence directs  thought  toward  God.  Without  it  there  is  no  religion.  Let 
us  not  make  Sunday  a  holiday.  It  is  a  holy  day,  and  on  that  day 
we  should  go  to  the  house  of  worship  and  seek  our  God.  If  we  seek 
him  on  the  Sabbath  day,  get  into  his  presence  on  that  day,  we  shall  find 
it  less  difficult  to  be  in  his  presence  the  following  days  of  the  week. 
There  should  be  more  reverence  for  the  house  of  worship.  I  am 
offended  when  I  see  in  Sunday  School,  or  perhaps  in  Mutual,  members 
leave  the  service  after  having  rendered  a  musical  number.  Undoubtedly, 
they  go  to  some  other  place  to  render  the  same  service.  Even  that  is 
not  sufficient  justification  for  the  mark  of  seeming  irreverence  in  leaving 
a  worshiping  assembly.  Better  secure  somebody  who  can  stay  through- 
out the  service,  for  the  assembly  in  a  dedicated  chapel  is  in  the  presence 
of  God.  All  are  supposed  to  have  come  to  meet  him  and  worship  him, 
and  there  should  be  present  that  spirit  of  order  and  reverence  which 
will  direct  the  worshipers'  thoughts  in  the  right  channel. 

God  help  us  to  serve  him  with  our  minds,  might  and  strength. 
With  kind  consideration  for  all  mankind  and  particularly  for  those  who 
have  given  us  honored  names  and  pure  lives ;  with  prayer  and  reverence 
in  our  hearts,  may  we  seek  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteous- 
ness, that  all  other  things  may  be  given  to  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  confess  I  am  taken  somewhat  by  surprise  in  being  called  upon 
to  occupy  this  position,  for,  as  I  saw  the  time  of  the  General  Conference 
rapidly  slipping  away  and  contemplated  the  great  number  of  those  yet, 
presumably,  to  be  heard  from,  I  thought  surely  I  can  quietly  retain  my 
seat  without  fear  of  being  called  upon  to  face  this  vast  congregation ; 
but  now  that  I  am  called  I  sincerely  hope  that  I  may  enjoy  the  favor 
of  the  Lord  while  I  stand  before  you. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


103 


President  Grant  emphasized  in  his  opening  address  the  importance 
of  religion  and  quoted  from  some  eminent  authorities  an  opinion  that 
religion  is  the  true  basis  of  all  morality.  I  heartily  concur  in  that 
opinion.  I  do  not  believe  that  there  is  any  morality  independent  of 
religion.  The  present  policy  of  the  Church,  as  announced  by  President 
Grant,  in  withdrawing  from  secular  education,  must  not  be  construed  by 
the  people  as  a  withdrawal  from  the  great  cause  of  education;  but  it 
does  seem  like  an  unnecessary  duplication  of  work  for  the  Church  to 
undertake  to  do,  in  an  adequate  way,  what  is  already  being  so  well  done 
by  our  public  schools. 

The  greatest  work  of  the  Almighty  is  to  educate  his  children. 
This  Church  itself  is  a  great  institution  of  learning  and  is  charged 
with  the  responsibility  of  educating  the  world,  and,  in  this  connection, 
with  particular  reference  to  our  secular  education,  our  public  schools 
are  rendering  to  us  and  to  our  Church  in  common  with  our  fellow 
citizens  of  other  religious  views  and  their  churches,  a  splendid  service  in 
the  accomplishment  of  this  divine  purpose,  namely,  the  education  of 
mankind. 

That  education,  from  our  point  of  view,  is  primarily  the  work  of 
the  Church  is  fully  borne  out  by  these  illuminating  aphorisms  found 
in  our  own  modern  scriptures  and  the  writings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith :  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence."  "No  man  can  be  saved 
in  ignorance,"  and  "A  man  is  saved  no  faster  than  he  gets  knowl- 
edge." From  which  we  may  assume  that  the  great  work  of  the 
Master  is  one  of  education.  From  the  very  beginning  it  has  been  so. 
Our  first  parents  were  led  to  partake  of  the  fruit  of  the  tree  of  knowl- 
edge of  good  and  evil,  a  very  important  part  of  our  education.  Was 
that  a  calamity  to  the  world  or  to  them?  No!  On  the  contrary  it  was 
a  wonderful  blessing.  Cast  out  of  the  Garden  of  iEden  where  all  was 
peace  and  tranquility,  for  its  governing  law  had  been  violated ;  but 
admitted  into  this  world  of  struggle  and  strife — this  school  of  expe- 
rience where  we  are  still  partaking  of  the  fruit  of  that  tree.  Blessed 
are  we  if,  with  the  knowledge  thus  obtained,  we  choose  the  good  and 
reject  the  evil. 

Education  then  is  manifold.  It  has  to  do  with  everything  pertain- 
ing to  the  growth  and  development  of  mankind.  It  is  secular  but  also 
spiritual,  mental  and  physical ;  moral  and  religious  education  go  hand 
in  hand — the  training  of  the  heart  and  of  the  hand — all  are  included  in 
the  curriculum  of  "God's  Great  School." 

In  our  quest  for  knowledge  it  is  strange,  but  interesting,  to  observe 
its  reaction  upon  the  human  mind  as  manifested  in  the  varying  attitudes 
of  mankind  towards  God  and  religion.  Some  have  become  atheists — 
some  agnostics,  some  believers.  Atheists  who  deny  the  existence  of 
God,  who  say  there  is  no  God,  how  foolish !  How  can  one  look  out 
into  this  natural  world  where  everything  bears  the  impress  of  divinity 
and  continue  to  maintain  such  an  attitude?  Is  such  a  condition  of 
mind  due  to  superior  knowledge?  Is  it  not  more  likely  due  to  the 
lack  of  it? 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"A  little  learning  is  a  dangerous  thing. 
Drink  deep  or  taste  not  the  Pierian  spring." 

What  benefit  comes  from  such  an  attitude?  Does  it  produce 
happiness  ?  Or  promote  morality  ?  Or  in  any  way  benefit  man- 
kind ?  Certainly  not !  It  sets  God  aside  and  thus  removes  the  very 
basic  principle  of  al  true  morality.  It  having  no  reverence 
leads  to  profanity  and  defiance,-  thence  rebellion  against  God  and 
ence  leads  to  profanity  and  defiance,  thence'  rebellion  against  God  and 
his  counsels  and  disregard  of  one's  fellow  man,  for  the  love  of  God 
and  the  love  off  man  are  inseparable.  What  is  the  basis  of  such  morality 
as  may  be  found  among  atheists?  Not  the  fear  of  God  for  they  say 
"  there  is  none.  What  then  ?  Let  me  answer  that  question :  It  is 
the  fear  of  Man.  Society  imposes  penalties  upon  evil  doers.  Jails 
and  penitentiaries  are  built  for  them.  So  if  they  desire  to  mingle  in 
society  and  avoid  the  penalties  they  must  maintain  a  certain  degree  of 
morality  and  decency ;  but  those  whose  morality  is  built  upon  this 
foundation  say  to  themselves :  "If  the  law  does  not  forbid  (and  there 
are  many  evils  which  the  law  does  not  forbid)  or  if  we  can  only 
gratify  our  evil  desires  without  being  found  out,  then  we  may  carry 
on,  without  compunction,  to  our  hearts  content."  What  a  miserable  basis 
upon  which  to  build  the  moral  life — the  fear  of  man !  How  foolish ! 
"The  fool  hath  said  in  his  heart,  there  is  no  God."  But  when  a  man 
fears' God  and  has  an  abiding'  faith  in  him,  he  knows  that  his  all-seeing 
eye  will  penetrate  into  the  deepest  recesses  of  the  heart — he  knows  that 
God  will  find  him  out.  Then  we  may  well  say:  "Be  not  afraid  of  the 
face  of  man  but  fear  God  and  keep  his  commandments." 

The  apparent  conflict,  and  let  me  say  it  is  only  apparent,  between 
religion  and  science,  arises  from  two  definite  causes.  An  imperfect 
knowledge  of  science  on  the  one  hand  and  an  imperfect  knowledge  "of 
religion  on  the  other.  True  science  is  knowledge  classified  and 
must  be  true,  hence  it  is  a  part  of  true  religion  which  embraces  and 
accepts  all  truth.  How  I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  development  of 
science  and  invention,  and  I  hope  I  may  ever  have  an  open  mind  ready 
to  receive  all  knowledge  let  it  come  from  whence  it  will,  for  it  has  but 
one  source  ;  it  comes  from  God  who  is  the  fountain  of  all  truth. 

Revelation  is  truth  made  known  whether  that  truth  be  religious 
or  secular.  Every  invention  or  discovery,  in  fact  all  our  understanding 
comes  from  God,  for  "there  is  a  spirit  in  man ;  and  the  inspiration  of  the 
Almighty  giveth  them  understanding."  It  does  not  detract  from  the 
glory  due  to  the  inventor  to  say  that  God  uses  him  as  an  instrument 
in  his  hands  in  bringing  truth  to  light.  God  sends  us  his  prophets  to 
teach  us  in  the  way  of  life ;  he  also  sends  us  scientists,  inventors  and 
discoverers.  They  too  are  servants  of  God  and  have  a  part  in  the  great 
work  of  educating  mankind. 

T  am  not  an  atheist  and  deny  that  knowledge  leads  to  atheism,  nor 
am  I  an  agnostic  who  holds  that  nothing  can  be  known  beyond  material 
phenomena,  who  regards  faith  as  a  positive  weakness,  mistaking  it  for 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


105 


credulity,  thus  pulling  down  the  blinds  and  shutting  out  from  his 
soul  the  light  of  faith  while  he  gropes  around  in  darkness  and  despair 
No,  I  am  neither  one  nor  the  other.  God  forbid!  I  thank  the  Lord 
that  I  have  a  believing  heart  and  see  his  hand  in  all  that  lies  about 
me.  Whether  I  look  out  into  the  starry  heavens  or  watch  the  budding 
of  the  trees  and  the  unfolding-  of  their  leaves  or  whether  in  my  secret 
chamber  where  no  human  eye  can  see  me,  I  am  holding  converse  with 
my  Maker ;  I  feel  and  sense  his  presence  in  every  fibre  of  my  being,  and 
my  heart  is  filled  with  joy  and  gladness  for  the  testimony  he  has  given 
me  of  the  truth  of  his  glorious  Gospel  as  restored  to  earth  in  all  its 
primitive  purity  in  these  last  days,  through  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet. 

I  think  sometimes  that  J  am  perhaps  a  philosopher.  But  do  not  let 
that  be  taken  to  mean  that  I  am  professing  great  learning,  for  such  is  not 
the  case.  Hut  if  we  may  say  that  to  be  a  philosopher  means  what  its 
classic  origin  indicates — a  lover  of  wisdom,  then  am  I  indeed  a  phil- 
osopher, for  I  love  wisdom;  no  matter  how  much  I  may  lack  or  be 
wanting  in  wisdom,  yet  nevertheless  I  love  it  and  I  want  more  wisdom. 
There  is  no  wisdom  in  denying  God  or  in  shutting  out  the  light  of 
faith  or  in  closing  one's  heart  against  the  whispering  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 
It  is  rebellion  against  the  Creator  of  heaven  and  earth.  "The  beginning 
of  wisdom  is  the  fear  of  the  Lord,"'  and  we  are  living  in  the  day  spoken 
of  by  John  the  Revelator  wherein  he  says : 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every 
nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people. 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth, 
and  the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

Here  then  is  wisdom.  O  ye  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  hearken  to  the 
words  of  the  prophets.  Open  your  ears  and  your  hearts  to  that  means 
of  knowledge  and  understanding  which  God  has  given  unto  us  through 
his  great  teacher,  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  is  striving  with  all  the  children 
of  men  to  bring  them  back  to  God,  after  we  shall  obtain  the  education 
that  he  has  provided  for  us  in  this  earth-life  which  we  are  now  living. 
May  God  help  us  to  learn  our  lessons  well  and  to  prepare  ourselves 
■for  that  which  he  has  in  store  for  us  if  we  will  only  accept  it;  for 
great  is  the  knowledge,  the  learning,  the  education — even  the  knowledge 
of  the  things  of  God  whom  to  know  i$  life  eternal — if  we  will  only  be 
wise  in  our  searching  after  truth. 

"Eye  hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither  have  entered  into  the  heart 
of  man,  the  things  which  God  hath  prepared  for  them  that  love  him. 

"But  God  hath  revealed  them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit:  for  the  spirit  searcheth 
all  things,  yea,  the  deep  things  of  God. 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God."' 

May  we  then  receive  our  diplomas  through  our  diligence  and  faith 
in  this  great  school,  even  the  "crown  of  life  which  the  Lord  hath 
promised  to  them  that  love  him."  Amen. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and  President  of  the 
California  Mission 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  is  a  very  wonderful 
privilege  that  has  come  to  me,  and  as  has  already  been  said  by  a 
previous  speaker,  a  tremendous  responsibility.  I  sincerely  trust  that 
the  Lord's  good  Spirit,  that  influence  that  has  been  manifested  through 
the  proceedings  of  this  conference  thus  far,  may  be  with  me  in  the 
few  moments  that  I  occupy. 

My  thoughts  naturally  dwell  upon  matters  pertaining  to  missionary 
work,  as  my  responsibility  is  in  the  mission  field.  I  have  had  a  rather 
unusual  and  remarkable  experience,  I  feel,  while  laboring  in  California. 
My  appointment  to  that  field  of  labor  took  place  just  a  little  prior  to  a 
period  of  depression  in  a  business  way  in  the  states  of  Utah  and  Idaho 
and  in  other  sections,  while  in  California  there  was  a'great  degree  of 
business  activity.  Great  building's  were  being  erected,  thousands  of 
homes  were  being  built,  and  new  divisions  in  the  great  city  were  being 
opened  up.  Men  who  were  out  of  employment  were  attracted  from 
many  other  states  and  came  to  California  hunting  for  work.  In  the 
days  that  I  have  in  mind  they  were  quite  generally  successful  in  finding 
employment,  and  in  turn  they  communicated  with  their  friends  and 
relatives.  The  result  has  been  a  great  influx  of  Latter-day  Saints  into 
the  state  of  California. 

When  I  took  up  my  missionary  work  we  had  on  the  records  of  the 
California  mission  about  four  thousand  souls.  At  the  present  time  we 
have  over  ten  thousand  souls,  and  there  has  been  taken  from  the  mission 
some  twelve  or  fifteen  thousand  members  who  are  in  the  three  stakes 
that  have  been  organized  in  California.  So  our  responsibility  and  our 
labors  to  a  considerable  degree  have  been  to  look  after  these  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  have  come  there  in  such  large  numbers,  and  it  has 
been  necessary  to  organize  fifty,  sixty,  or  seventy  branches  of  the 
Church.  Of  course  thirty  or  possibly  more  of  those  organizations  are 
now  in  the  stakes  that  have  been  established  in  Los  Angeles  and  San 
Francisco.  But  there  are  people  still  coming  to  California.  Many  of 
them  are  disappointed  when  they  arrive,  for  the  reason  that  oppor- 
tunities for  employment  are  not  as  they  have  been  in  times  gone  by : 
and  there  are  a  good  many  idle  men  who  are  anxious  to  work  but  who 
cannot  find  employment. 

This  great  influx  of  people  has  made  it  necessary  to  do  a  large 
amount  of  building,  and  building  operations  have  been  made  possible 
by  the  generous  attitude  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  suppose  that  some  of  the  people  do  not 
know  that  from  the  funds  of  the  Church  liberal  contributions  are  made 
for  the  erection  of  chapel  buildings,  not  only  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  but 
throughout  the  missions  of  the  world.  We  have  usually  received  from 
the  First  Presidency  from  the  general  funds  of  the  Church  at  least  fifty 
per  cent  of  the  cost  of  the  chapel  buildings  that  have  been  erected  in  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN 


107 


California  mission,  and  this  fifty  per  cent,  speaking  roughly,  is  suffi- 
cient to  buy  the  material  that  goes  into  the  buildings.  The  result  has 
been  that  many  buildings  have  been  erected,  probably  thirty  chapels, 
representing  a  value  of  six  or  seven  hundred  thousand  dollars.  Nine  of 
those  buildings  were  commenced  during  the  past  year  and  will  be  oc- 
cupied, all  of  them,  during  the  present  year. 

The  people  have  operated  to  a  considerable  extent  in  the  same 
manner  that  this  sort  of  thing  was  done  in  pioneer  days.  Aside  from 
the  assistance  to  which  I  have  referred,  the  people  who  make  tip  the 
branches  have  given  of  their  skill,  (and  many  of  them  are  mechanics), 
and  they  have  labored  faithfully  to  build  these  buildings;  sometimes 
going  after  the  regular  day's  work  was  over  and  working  four  or  five 
hours,  away  into  the  night,  that  they  might  have  places  in  which  to 
worship  the  Lord  our  God. 

We  have  had  wonderful  assistance  from  the  missionaries  who  have 
been  sent  to  us.  I  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  stake  presidents — Brother 
Chipman,  formerly  president  of  the  Alpine  stake,  Thomas  Clark  Cal- 
lister  of  the  Millard  stake,  President  Wayne  H.  Redd;  of  the  San  Juan 
stake, — they  have  all  been  in  California.  President  Miles  L.  Jones,  who 
has  now  been  called  to  preside  over  one  of  the  missions  in  America, 
and  other  men,  some  of  them  members  of  stake  presidencies,  have  been 
with  us  in  California.  One  of  these  men  said  to  me  yesterday,  when 
I  invited  him  to  come  again  to  California :  "O,  Brother  Joseph,  I  could 
never  again  have  such  a  joyful  time  as  I  had  while  I  was  with  you  in 
California."    But  I  am  sure  he  could  have  just  as  joyful  a  time  again. 

I  have  been  wondering,  as  J  have  looked  into  the  faces  of  these 
splendid  men  who  are  here  in  this  congregation,  how  these  stake  pres- 
idents came  to  receive  these  missionary  appointments?  My  under- 
standing is  that  they  offered  their  services  in  response  to  the  call  made 
by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
I  understand  that  there  has  been  a  suggestion  made  by  the  Presidency 
that  short-term  missionaries  may  in  some  cases  come  from  the  ranks  of 
stake  presidents,  from  the  ranks  of  bishops,  and  from  high  councils  in 
the  various  stakes  of  Zion.  I  am  sure  that  these  men  whom  I  have 
named  and  other  men  whom  I  could  name,  have  accomplished  a  marvel- 
ous work  in  the  California  mission.  I  very  much  doubt  if  they  realize 
how  great  has  been  their  ministry  and  how  wonderful  their  influence. 
Some  of  these  men  when  they  got  into  this  labor  became  tremendously 
interested,  so  much  so  that  when  the  usual  period  of  a  short-term 
mission  of  six  months  had  passed  by  they  did  not  want  to  return  home 
and  they  doubled  the  period.  We  have  had  short-term  missionaries  who 
have  actually  suggested,  when  it  was  necessary  for  them  to*  return,  that 
they  be  not  released.  They  had  the  spirit  of  this  work  upon  them,  they 
felt  its  importance,  and  in  some  instances  we  have  left  their  names  upon 
theNrecord,  and  they  have  come  back  and  have  again  taken  up  the  work 
of  preaching  the  Gospel,  all  at  their  own  expense.  Surely  God's  work 
is  great  and  marvelous. 

We  find  occasionally  new  evidences  coming  to  our  attention  to 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


strengthen  ns  in  the  work  of  God.  I  would  like  to  read  an  item  that 
has  had  a  remarkable  bearing  upon  my  own  feelings  in  regard  to  the 
wonder  of  the  work  of  the  latter  days.  This  clipping  is  from  the  Los 
Angeles  Examiner,  I  think  of  July,  1927.   It  says: 

"Dr.  Robert  A.  Millikan,  head  of  the  California  Institute  of  Technology, 
at  Pasadena,  yesterday  made  some  startling  statements,  showing  that  the 
question  of  the  existence  and  traits  of  these  cosmic  rays  may  be  considered 
as  scientifically  determined,  together  with  the  fact  that  about  one-tenth 
of  the  energy  in  the  heat  and  light  given  forth  by  our  sun  and  stars  is  re- 
turned from  space  by  these  rays.  This  was  of  such  a  striking  nature,  it 
opened  such  perspectives  to  the  imagination  and  vision  of  the  astronomical 
and  physical  features  of  the  universe  that  the  reporter  persuaded  Dr.  Millikan 
himself  to  write  just  his  thought,  and  the  doctor  wrote:  'It  is  a  legitimate 
speculation,  that  since  we  now  have  evidence  that  the  sun  and  stars  are 
actually  radiating  away  their  masses  in  the  form  of  heat  and  light,  some- 
where in  the  universe  the  reverse  of  that  process  is  going  on,  and  light  and 
heat  are  condensing  back  again  into  ordinary  matter,  new  stars  thus  being 
in  the  process  of  forming  as  old  ones  disappear.' 

"Coming  from  the  one  whom  many  learned  men  consider  the  foremost 
physicist  of  the  world,  these  statements  carry  immense  weight  and  portend 
future  research  endeavors  of  a  phase  new  to  science  and  new  to  all  the 
world." 

And  then,  listen,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  this  quotation  from  the 
Pearl  of  Great  Price,  the  Book  of  Moses,  as  given  in  vision  and  trans- 
lated by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  Moses  spake  unto  the  Lord,  saying:  Be  merci- 
ful unto  thy  servant,  O  God,  and  tell  me  concerning  this  earth,  and  the  in- 
habitants thereof,  and  also  the  heavens,  and  then  thy  servant  will  be  content. 

"And  the  Lord  spake  unto  Moses,  saying:  The  heavens,  they  are  many, 
and  they  cannot  be  numbered  unto  man;  but  they  are  numbered  unto  me, 
for  they  are  mine. 

"And  as  one  earth  shall  pass  away,  and  the  heavens  thereof,  even  so 
shall  another  come;  and  there  is  no  end  to  my  works,  neither  to  my  words." 

The  great  scientist,  or  the  commentator  on  his  words,  declared 
that  the  forming  of  new  planets  as  suggested  was  new  to  science  and 
new  to  all  the  world ;  and  yet  the  great  prophet  of  the  latter  times, 
not  a  scientist,  made  declaration  through  this  vision  that  the  very 
doctrine  that  is  dawning  upon  the  minds  of  men  was  revealed  by  the 
Lord  God  of  heaven.    Praise  to  his  name ! 

I  hope  that  we  will  take  the  admonitions  that  have  been  given, 
and  that  our  testimonies  will  hold  us  secure  in  the  work  of  God,  no 
matter  what  information  may  be  presented  that  may  be  difficult  for  us 
to  explain.  May  God  help  us  to.  be  true  to  our  testimonies  and  to  his 
cause  for  ever  and  ever,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Let  the  mountains  shout  for  joy,"  was  sung  by  a 
quartet  consisting  of  Hyrum  Christiansen,  Pearl  K.  Davis,  James  N. 
Astin,  and  Jessie  Williams,  with  the  choir. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Anchor  C.  Schow,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Lehi  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.  m. 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  closing  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2  :00 
p.  m.    President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  choral  music  of  the  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  combined 
Salt  Lake  and  Ogden  Tabernacle  Choirs,  under  the  direction  of  Prof. 
Anthony  C.  Lund. 

The  congregation  and  combined  choirs  sang  the  hymn,  "The  Spirit 
of  God  like  a  fire  is  burning." 

Elder  Wilford  W.  Warnick,  President  of  the  Timpanogos  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  combined  choirs  rendered  the  sacred  anthem,  "How  lovely  are 
the  messengers." 

ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 

Some  splendid  things  have  been  said  during  this  Conference,  and 
I  am  happy  to  find  myself  in  hearty  accord  with  them  all.  It  may  be 
supposed  that  differences  of  opinion  have  been  expressed  by  certain 
speakers.  But  I  do  not  recognize  any  such  differences.  It  seems  to  me 
that  there  has  been  a  wonderful  unanimity  of  thought  and  utterance  in 
the  remarks  of  those  who  have  addressed  us. 

DIFFERENCES  OF  VIEWPOINT 

What  appear  to  be  differences  in  the  teachings  of  the  Lord's 
servants  at  times,  are  not  differences  in  principle,  nor  in  conviction, 
but  only  differences  of  viewpoint.  We  are  all  looking  at  the  same  object, 
but  not  through  the  same  pair  of  eyes.  The  splendid  discourse  of 
Elder  Ballard  and  the  equally  interesting  talk  of  President  Harris 
(the  latter  at  the  Priesthood  meeting)  set  me  to  thinking  along  this 
line. 

MOTHER  AND  DAUGHTER 

I  recall  a  trip  to  Rigby  stake  that  I  took  some  years  ago,  in 
company  with  my  kinsman,  Elder  J.  Golden  Kimball.  We  were  to 
attend  a  conference  on  Saturday  and  Sunday,  but  arrived  at  Rigby  in 
the  afternoon  of  Friday.  A  woman's  meeting  was  in  progress  in  the 
basement  of  the  Tabernacle,  and  one  of  the  sisters  was  holding  forth 
to  a  large  assemblage  of  mothers,  wives  and  daughters.  As  we  went 
in  these  words  fell  from  her  lips:  "The  girls  of  today  are  just  as  good 
as  their  mothers  were  when  they  were  young — only  they  know  more." 
And  to  clinch  her  argument  she  quoted  a  dialogue  between  a  mother 
and  a  daughter,  in  which  the  mother  said:  "I  never  thought  of  doing 
such  things  when  I  was  a  girl."  "No,"  answered  the  daughter,  "if 
you  had  you'd  have  done  them." 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


elder  kimball's  pro  and  con 

The  conference  opened  in  due  season,  and  Brother  Kimball  arose 
to  speak.  The  first  thing  he  said  that  interested  me  was  this:  "There 
isn't  one  man  in  a  thousand  that  knows  how  to  treat  a  woman."  And 
the  sisters  all  over  the  house  looked  at  each  other  and  nodded  their 
heads  approvingly.  Then  Golden  fired  off  the  other  barrel :  "And  there 
isn't  one  woman  in  a  thousand  that  knows  when  she's  well  treated." 
I  came  home  more  than  ever  convinced  that  there  are  two  sides  to  every 
question. 

THE  YOUTH  OF  ZION 

I  have  faith  in  the  young  people  of  this  Church — not  because  I 
believe  them  without  fault,  nor  because  I  think  all  are  walking  in  the 
ways  of  wisdom  and  shunning  the  downward  road.  I  have  faith  in  them 
because  of  the  'character  of  their  parents,  because  of  the  ancestry  from 
which  they  have  sprung,  and  because  of  the  promise  made  by  the 
God  of  Heaven,  that  "this  Kingdom  shall  never  be  thrown  down  nor 
given  to  another  people.''" 

A  WORD  FOR  THE  WAYWARD 

You  parents  of  the  wilful  and  the  wayward!  Don't  give  them  up. 
Don't  cast  them  off.  They  are  not  utterly  lost.  The  Shepherd  will 
find  his  sheep.  They  were  his  before  they  were  yours — long  before 
he  entrutsed  them  to  your  care ;  and  you  cannot  begin  to  love  them  as 
he  loves  them.  They  have  but  strayed  in  ignorance  from  the  Path  of 
Right,  and  God  is  merciful  to  ignorance.  Only  the  fulness  of  knowl- 
edge brings  the  fulness  of  accountability.  Our  Heavenly  Father  is  far 
more  merciful,  infinitely  more  charitable,  than  even  the  best  of'  his 
servants,  and  the  Everlasting  Gospel  is  mightier  in  power  to  save  than 
our  narrow  finite  minds  can  comprehend. 

A  PRECIOUS  PROMISE 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared — and  he  never  taught  more 
comforting  doctrine — that  the  eternal  sealings  of  faithful  parents  and  the 
divine  promises  made  to  them  for  valiant  service  in  the  Cause  of  Truth, 
would  save  not  only  themselves,  but  likewise  their  posterity.  Though 
some  of  the  sheep  may  wander,  the  eye  of  the  Shepherd  is  upon  them, 
and  sooner  or  later  they  will  feel  the  tentacles  of  Divine  Providence 
reaching  out  after  them  and  drawing  them  back  to  the  fold.  Either  in 
this  life  or  the  life  to  come,  they  will  return.  They  will  have  to  pay 
their  debt  to  justice;  they  will  suffer  for  their  sins;  and  may  tread  a 
thorny  path ;  but  if  it  leads  them  at  last,  like  the  penitent  Prodigal,  to  a 
loving  and  forgiving  father's  heart  and  home,  the  painful  experience 
will  not  have  been  in  vain.  Pray  for  your  careless  and  disobedient 
children ;  hold  on  to  them  with  your  faith.  Hope  on,  trust  on,  till  you 
see  the  salvation  of  God. 

Who  are  these  straying  sheep — these  wayward  sons  and  daughters  ? 
They  are  children  of  the  Covenant,  heirs  to  the  promises,  and  have  re- 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


111 


ceived,  if  baptized,  the^gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  which  makes  manifest 
the  things  of  God.  Could  all  that  go  for  naught? 

Something  that  President  Nibley  said  much  impressed  me.  As  I 
interpreted  him,  he  was  reminding  us  of  how  Latter-day  Saints  are  made, 
and  how  we  must  build  up  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 

A  SCENE  FROM  SHAKESPEARE 

Shakespeare,  in  that  wonderful  play,  "The  Merchant  of  Venice"  

I  presume  you  are  all  familiar  with  It — pictures  a  court  scene  in  which 
Shylock,  a  Jew  money-lender,  is  suing  Antonio,  a  Christian  merchant, 
whom  he  hates  and  would  fain  destroy.  Shylock  holds  a  bond  from 
Antonio  for  a  loan  of  three  thousand  ducats,  which  bond,  if  the  loan 
be  not  paid  within  a  certain,  time,  permits  the  Jew  to  cut  a  pound  of 
flesh  from  the  merchant's  body,  nearest  his  heart,  that  being  the  penalty 
of  the  forfeiture.  The  money  not  being  paid  on  time — Antonio's  ships 
having  been  lost  at  sea — Shylock  demands  the  strict  fulfilment  of  the 
bond. 

Portia,  a  beautiful  and  talented  lady,  disguised  as  a  lawyer,  repre- 
sents Antonio  and  entreats  the  Jew  to  be  merciful.  Shylock  spurns  the 
thought,  and  insists  upon  his  pound  of  flesh.  Portia  then  tells  him 
to  take  it,  but  warns  him,  to  shed  no  blood,  lest  he  violate  the  law  of 
Venice,  which  severely  punishes  an  alien  for  seeking  the  life  of  a 
citizen.  "Take  your  pound  of  flesh,  but  if  in  the  taking  of  it  you  shed 
one  drop  of  Christian  blood,  or  cut  off  more  or  less  than  just  one 
pound  of  flesh,  thou  diest,  and  all  thy  goods  are  confiscate."  Shylock 
now  tries  to  recede,  but  the  law  still  holds  him.  For  contriving,  though 
indirectly,  against  the  merchant's  life,  all  his  goods  are  confiscated— 
half  to  the  State  and  half  to  Antonio — and  his  life  "lies  in  the  mercy  of 
the  Duke."  Then  comes  a  most  wonderful  decision — wonderful  in  its 
supreme  absurdity.  The  Duke,  who  is  the  Judge,  gives  the  Jew  his 
life  on  condition  that  he  "presently  become  a  Christian." 

It  is  hard  for  me  to  believe  that  Shakespeare  wrote  those  words — 
unless  his  purpose  was  to  satirize  the  State  of  Venice  and  its  method  of 
dispensing  justice  to  Jews.  Shakespeare  was  noted  for  his  rare  good 
sense,  and  T  have  always  been  told  that  good  law  is  good  sense.  But 
where  was  the  good  sense  of  trying  to  convert  a  Jew  into  a  Christian 
by  a  decree  of  court?  Up  to  that  point  the  logic  is  faultless,  the 
wisdom  abundantly  manifest ;  after  that,  it  is  conspicuous  by  its  ab- 
sence.   Christians,  real  Christians,  are  not  made  that  way. 

A  COLONIZING  PROPOSITION 

3  place  beside  this  fancied  incident  an  experience  of  my  own.  I  was 
on  a  train  in  the  State  of  Idaho,  and  had  just  taken  breakfast  and  re- 
sumed my  seat  in  the  Pullman  coach,  when  a  gentleman  came  and  sat 
beside  me.  Said  he:  "I  gathered  from  your  conversation  in  the  diner 
that  you  are  a  Mormon."  I  nodded  assent,  and  he  continued :  "I  have 
long  desired  to  talk  with  some  of  your  leading  men.  I  know  only  one 
prominent  Mormon" — and  he  named  Rulon  S.  Wells  as  the  man.  "I 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


am  deeply  interested  in  colonization,  and  regar-d  the  Mormon  people 
as  the  most  successful  colonizers  in  the  world.  I  have  noted  the  vain 
attempts  made  by  Baron  Hirsch  and  other  wealthy  Hebrew  philan- 
thropists, to  colonize  poor  Jews  from  the  large  Eastern  cities  upon 
arid  lands  in  the  West;  a  project  upon  which  they  have  spent  millions, 
and  failed  because  of  the  utter  lack  of  experience  as  colonizers  on  the 
part  of  those  whom  they  have  sought  to  benefit.  Now,  if  the  Mormon 
leaders  would  form  a  co-partnership  with  Baron  Hirsch  and  his  col- 
leagues— they  to  furnish  the  millions,  you  the  skill  as  colonizers- — what 
a  magnificent  work  might  be  accomplished !  And  mind  you,  you  could 
stipulate  in  the  contract,  that  every  Jew  thus  colonized  should  become 
a  Mormon!  And  just  see  how  that  would)  build  up  your  Church!"  I 
remained  silent,  thinking  of  poor  old  Shylock  and  his  proposed  con- 
version to  Christianity.  Does  any  Latter-day  Saint  or  latter-day  sinner 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice,  believe  that  this  Church  could  be  built 
up  by  a  colonizing  contract  or  anything  else  of  a  commercial  char- 
acter?   No;  "Mormons"  are  not  made  that  way. 

HOW  MADE 

There  is  but  one  way  to  build  up  the  Church  of  God — and  that 
is  God's  way.  not  man's.  Faith,  repentance,  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins,  and  the  reception  of  the  Holy  Ghost  under  the 
hands  of  divinely  authorized  ministers  of  the  Gospel — these  are  es- 
sentials in  the  process.  That  gift  of  God  which  imparts  a  testimony 
of  the  Truth,  supplemented  by  toil  and  sacrifice  and  continued  obedience 
to  the  divine  will — that  is  what  makes  true  Latter-day  Saints.  Divine 
revelation  is  the  rock  upon  which  this  Church  is  built,  and  the  gates  of 
hell  cannot  prevail  against  it. 

AS  DICKENS  SAW  THEM 

What  was  the  character  of  the  early  converts  to  "Mormonism'' ? 
They  were  stigmatized  as  ignorant  and  malicious.  It  was  ignorance  and 
malice  that  so  stigmatized  them.  "Scum  of  the  earth,"  "off-scourings 
of  civilization" — these  were  some  of  the  pet  names  bestowed  upon  them 
by  their  enemies.  How  utterly  unjust,  how  grotesquely  misapplied  these 
epithets,  must  be  apparent  to  everyone  who  has  any  knowledge  of  the 
facts.  The  great  Charles  Dickens,  then  a  reporter  on  a  London  news- 
paper, after  visiting  an  emigrant  ship  anchored  in  the  Thames,  a  ship 
loaded  with  Latter-day  Saints  and  about  to  sail  for  America,  described 
them  as  "in  their  degree  the  pick  and  flower  of  England."  And  if  that 
be  true  of  England,  it  is  true  of  America,  and  true  of  all  the  countries 
from  which  the  Saints  of  latter  days  have  come.  As  a  matter  of  fact, 
they  were  among  the  best  men  and  women  of  their  time.  Many  were 
descended  from  the  Pilgrims  and  the  Patriots  who  founded  this  Nation, 
and  in  their  veins,  as  sons  and  daughters  of  Israel,  flowed  the  blood  of 
priests  and  kings,  illustrious  through  a  thousand  generations. 

AN  ENGLISH  HEROINE 

A  few  years  ago  I  spoke  at  the  funeral  of  an  aged  English  woman 


ELDER  ORSON  E.  WB1TNEY 


113 


in  the  town  of  Payson.  iShe  had  been  at  one  time  a  member  oi  the 
Eighteenth  Ward  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  I  was  her  Bishop.  Born 
in  far-away  Gloucestershire,  as  a  young  girl  she  joined  the  Church  after 
hearing  the  first  "Mormon"  sermon  to  which  she  had  ever  listened. 
She  went  home  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and  her  parents  turned  her  from 
the  door.  She  had  disgraced  them,  they  said,  by  connecting  herself  with 
a  people,  who,  like  the  early  Christians,  were  everywhere  spoken  against 
—the  unpopular  and  despised  "Mormons."  From  that  hour  she  earned 
her  own  living,  earned  it  honestly,  virtuously,  and  within  ten  years,  her 
father,  mother,  brothers  and  sisters,  by  the  mercy  of  God  and  influenced, 
no  doubt,  by  her  heroic  example,  had  all  been  gathered  into  the  Church.' 
They  emigrated  to  Utah,  and  here  she  continued  her  good  work  in  the 
Temple,  redeeming  hundreds  of  her  dead  ancestors  and  becoming 
literally  a  savior  to  her  father's  house.  Is  it  not  amazing  that  a  little 
slip  of  a  girl,  only  nineteen  years  of  age,  could  manifest  such  strength 
of  character,  such  devotion  to  principle?  "Scum  of  the  earth,"  for- 
sooth !  Would  to  heaven  there  were  more  like  her !  And  there  are 
many  like  her  in  this  Church,  many  thousands  of  them,  just  as  true 
and  steadfast  as  she.  They  are  the  mothers,  present  or  prospective,  of 
our  boys  and  girls,  men  and  women  of  the  future. 

"i  CANNOT  MAKE  THE  SACRIFICE" 

Let  me  now  cite  a  different  example.  In  the  State  of  Ohio  in  the 
year  1877,  while  on  my  first  mission,  I  formed  the  acquaintance  of  a 
very  estimable  lady,  the  widow  of  a  Union  officer  who  had  fallen  in 
battle  during  the  Civil  War.  She  loved  her  departed  husband,  revered 
his  memory,  and  expressed  for  him  the  fondest,  deepest  devotion.  When 
I  told  her  of  the  doctrines  of  salvation  for  the  dead,  marriage  for 
eternity,  and  the  sacred  sealings  that  pertain  to  the  Hereafter — explain- 
ing that  these  were  among  the  purposes  for  which  the  Latter-day  Saints 
build  temples  and  officiate  therein — she  was  wonderfully  interested.  "Do 
you  mean  to  tell  me,"  she  asked,  "that  if  I  become  a  Latter-day  Saint 
I  can  have  such  work  done  for  my  dear  husband,  and  be  his  wife  in 
Eternity?"  "Yes,"  said  I,  and  she  exclaimed:  "I  have  never  heard 
anything  so  beautiful,  so  sublime.  Convince  me  of  its  truth,  and  I 
will  be  baptized  if  it  were  in  a  lake  of  living  fire."  Those  were  her 
very  words. 

"I  cannot  convince  you,"  I  said,  "but  the  Lord  can,  and  will  if 
you  ask  him."  "I  will  ask  him,"  was  her  hearty  response  ;  and  no  doubt 
she  did,  for  she  wrote  me  in  a  few  days  to  this  effect :  "The  Lord  has 
given  me  the  testimony  that  J  desired,  and  I  am  now  ready  to  be 
baptized."  Overjoyed.  I  answered  telling  her  that  I  would  make  up  a 
little  party  and  meet  her  at  a  certain  point  on  the  shore  of  Lake  Erie, 
and  there  baptize  her. 

The  party  was  made  up  and  about  ready  to  start,  when  I  received 
another  note  from  her,  reading  as  follows:  "<L  never  knew  before  what  a 
poor,  weak,  frail  creature  I  am.  I  thought  myself  strong  enough,  brave 
enough,  to  take  this  step— but  I  am  not.     If  I  should  become  a 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Mormon,  all  my  friends  would  forsake  me,  I  would  lose  my  social 
standing,  and  my  name  would  be  cast  out  as  evil.  I  cannot  make  the 
sacrifice.  And  yet  I  believe  the  doctrines  that  you  have  laid  before  me, 
and  regard  you  as  a  true  servant  of  God.  I  hope  the  day  will  come 
when  we  can  stand  upon  the  same  plane  asi  brother  and  sister  in  the 
Church ;  but  I  cannot  do  that  now." 

I  felt  no  anger — only  disappointment  and  pity.  How  like  the 
impetuous  Peter,  I  thought,  who  said  to  Jesus,  "Though  all  men  forsake 
thee,  I  will  not  forsake  thee;"  and  yet,  when  danger  threatened,  he 
denied  him  thrice — denied  that  he  knew  his  Savior.  But  Peter  repented, 
and  the  Holy  Ghost,  descending  upon  him,  banished  all  timidity  and 
made  of  him  a  brave  man,  ready  to  die  for  the  Master.  It  is  said  that 
when  about  to  be  crucified,  he  begged  the  boon  that  it  be  with  his 
head  downward,  not  deeming  himself  worthy  to  die  as  his  Lord  had  died. 

This  good  woman — for  she  was  a  good  woman,  a  child  of  Israel,  no 
doubt,  else  why  did  she  believe? — had  she  been  baptized  she  would 
have  received  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  it  would  have  heartened  and  sus- 
tained her  through  every  trial.  She  thought  herself  brave  enough  to  be 
baptized  in  a  lake  of  fire.  But  when  weighed  in  the  balance  she  was 
found  wanting.  It  has  taken  braver  women  to  build  up  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

THE  IMPELLING  MOTIVES 

The  motives  that  impelled  the  founders  and  early,  members  of  this 
Church  were  vastly  different  from  the  motives  generally  imputed  to 
them.  It  was  not  for  gold  and  silver,  houses  and  lands,  nor  any  of 
"the  good  things  of  this  world,"  that  they  forsook  home  and  country,*, 
crossed  the  stormy  ocean,  dragged  rickety  hand-carts  over  sun-parched 
plains  and  snow-clad  mountains,  to .  settle  in  a  wilderness  and  suffer 
hardships  and  privations  innumerable,  while  redeeming  the  waste  and 
filling  it  with  farms,  vine-yards  and  happy  homes.  No ;  it  was  for 
God  and  his  Kingdom — nothing  less.  It  was  the  love  of  Truth  that 
inspired  and  impelled  them.  And  they  did  not  wait  for  Truth  to  become 
popular  before  espousing  her  cause.  The  poet  Lowell  little  knew  how 
admirably  he  was  painting  their  portrait  when  he  penned  these  glowing 
lines : 

Then  to  side  with  Truth  is  noble, 

When  we  share  her  wretched  crust, 
Ere  her  cause  bring  fame  and  profit, 

And  'tis  prosperous  to  be  just; 
Then  it  is  the  brave  man  chooses, 

While  the  coward  stands  aside, 
Doubting  in  his  abject  spirit 

Till  his  Lord  is  crucified, 
And  the  multitude  make  virtue 

Of  the  faith  they  had  denied. 

Perhaps  a  little  verse  of  my  own  may  not  be  deemed  unworthy  of 
association  with  Lowell's  heroic  stanza.  I  wrote  it  as  an  inscription 
for  a  bronze  statue,  "The  Hand-Cart  Family,"  a  work  of  our  gifted 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WBJTNEY 


115 


Norwegian  brother,  Torleif  Knaphus,  unveiled  some  time  ago  by  Pres- 
ident Grant  at  the  Bureau  of  Information : 

Nor  gold,  nor  glory,  their  exalted  quest, 
Who  won  for  East  the  wide  unconquered  West. 

They  toiled  o'er  frozen  crest,  o'er  parching  plain, 
Eternal  wealth  in  higher  worlds  to  gain. 

Forever  in  remembrance  let  them  be, 

Who  gave  their  all  for  Truth  and  Liberty! 

And  like  begets  like!  Fear  not  for  Zion's  future.  The  sons  and 
daughters  of  the  heroes  and  heroines  who  laid  the  foundations  of  this 
work,  will  build  thereon  and  bear  off  the  Kingdom  triumphantly.  When 
put  to  the  test,  they  will  "show  the  mettle  of  their  pasture." 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Notwithstanding  the  anxiety  I  have  had  since  the  commencement  of 
this  conference,  anticipating  the  call  to  speak,  I  appreciate  the  invita- 
tion extended  by  the  President  of  the  Church  for  me  to  occupy  a  few 
moments  of  the  time  in  this,  the  concluding  session  of  our  conference. 
I  realize  that  I  must  be  very  careful  not  to  offend  by  trespassing  upon 
the  time,  for  I  realize  there  are  a  number  of  brethren  whom  it  is 
desired  to  hear  before  the  conclusion  of  the  meeting. 

I  have  enjoyed  this  conference  very  greatly,  notwithstanding  the 
anxiety  I  have  experienced.  In  fact,  I  have  thought  it  to  be  one  of 
the  best  conferences  we  have  ever  had,  and  as  I  looked  upon  the  con- 
gregations of  saints  assembled  here  to  receive  the  word  of  the  Lord,  and 
remembered  that  by  the  use  of  these  amplifiers  and  radios  there  would  be 
many  thousands  of  other  members  of  the  Church  and  non-members  who 
would  hear  what  has  been  said,  I  have  been  greatly  pleased  and  have 
been  made  to  rejoice.  But  when  I  contrast  the  number  here  assembled 
with  the  total  membership  of  the  Church,  which  I  understand  is  about 
655,000,  I  am  made  to  realize  that  there  is  but  a  very  small  percentage 
of  the  people  that  get  the  benefit  directly  from  this  conference. 

THE  CONFERENCE  PAMPHLET 

I  have  a  thought  in  mind  that  I  desire  to  express,  a  plan  by  which 
these  splendid  discourses  may  reach  a  greater  number  of  our  people. 
The  proceedings  of  these  meetings  have  been  kept  and  will  be  printed 
verbatim  and  appear  in  a  pamphlet  or  booklet  known  as  The  Con- 
ference Pamphlet,  for  distribution.  I  think  that  these  pamphlets 
ought  to  be  found  more  generally  in  the  homes  of  the  saints.  I  think 
we  should  publish  a  very  great  many  more  of  them  than  we  have 
had  need  for  in  the  past.  I  have  thought,  during  this  conference,  that 
some  of  these  discourses  were  real  gems.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has 
been  poured  out  upon  us.  The  speakers  have  been  magnified.  They 
have  given  us  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  such  impressive,  convincing 
manner  that  I  have  felt  that  we  ought  to  provide  means  by  which  these 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


words  might  have  a  wider  circulation.  Take,  for  example,  the  talk- 
made  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards  on  the  subject  of  tithing,  one  that 
is  usually  spoken  of  as  a  very  dry  subject. — He  dressed  that  subject  in 
such  attractive  attire  that  it  was  made  beautiful,  impressive  and  con- 
vincing. That  discourse  should  be  read  in  the  homes  of  all  the  saints 
by  all  those  who  have  not  had  the  privilege  of  hearing  it. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  TITHE-PAYING 

The  subject  of  tithing  has  claimed  considerable  of  the  time  of 
this  conference.  A  most  excellent  discourse  upon  that  subject  was  de- 
livered at  the  priesthood  meeting  by  President  Grant — very  impressive 
indeed.  The  importance  of  the  subject  demands  that  it  have  considera- 
tion in  our  conferences  and  that  it  have  consideration  in  our  homes.  I 
desire  my  family  to  be  blessed  of  the  Lord.  I  therefore  desire  that 
they  pay  their  tithing.  This  Gospel  which  we  have  received  is  one 
of  sacrifice  all  along  the  line — In  order  to  be  disciples,  worthy  of  the 
Master,  we  must  be  willing  that  all  of  our  substance  be  used  as  far 
as  necessary  for  the  carrying  on  of  the  work  of  the  Lord.  We  must 
be  willing  to  lay  down  our  lives  if  need  be  for  the  Gospel's  sake.  We 
may  not  be  called  upon  to  make  such  great  sacrifices  but  we  are  called 
upon  to  give  one-tenth  of  our  interest  annually  as  a  tithe  with  which  to 
assist  in  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Lord,  looking  to  the  saving  of 
souls ;  and  sacrifices  of  this  kind  bring  forth  the  blessings  of  heaven : 
I  have  proved  it.  Others  have  proved  it.  I  know  it  is  true.  It  brings 
a  peace,  a  joy,  a  hope,  and  an  assurance  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
and  his  favor  that  scarcely  anything  else  will  do. 

Now,  this  places  a  responsibility  upon  parents.  I  have  an  un- 
married son ;  not  because  he  does  not  believe  in  the  law  of  tithing  do 
I  want  him  to  read  that  discourse,  because  het  does  believe  in  it,  and 
practices  it  to  the  extent  that  he  has  means,  interest  or  income;  it 
is  not  that  I  think  the  young  people  of  Zion  do  not  believe  in  the 
principle  of  tithing  or  that  the  saints  generally  do  not  believe  in  it, — 
but  it  is  that  we  may  have  understanding  of  the  obligations  resting  upon 
us,  and  the  blessings  that  may  accrue  to  us  by  faithfully  performing 
that  duty. 

GEMS  OF  INFORMATION 

I  call  attention  to  another  discourse,  that  delivered  by  Elder  Ballard. 
1  thought  it  was  a  wonderful  discourse.  He  never  could  have  de- 
livered it  without  the  help  of  the  Lord,  and  I  endorse  it  fully.  It  is  what 
we  might  call  a  delicate  subject,  referring  to  the  subject  of  sex,  purity 
of  life,  and  so  forth ;  but  in  a  most  masterful  manner  that  discourse 
was  delivered,  in  words  that  could  be  understood  and  yet  would  not 
offend  the  delicate  sensibilities  of  any  young  woman.  I  desire  that  the 
young  people  of  Zion  who  are  not  present  shall  have  opportunity  of 
reading  that  discourse.  The  Lord  has  blessed  the  Church  with  some 
very  efficient  teachers  of  his  word  and  will  and  I  appreciate  them,  and 
I  would  like  the  members  of  the  Church  to  have  the  opportunity  of 


ELDER  GEORGE  E.  RICHARDS 


117 


receiving  these  gems  of  information  and  truth.  If  T  can  leave  this 
word  impressed  upon  the  minds  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  such  a  way 
that  they  will  secure  the  Conference  Pamphlet,  and  possibly  in  their 
home  evenings  consider  it  with  their  sons  and  daughters,  then  I  shall  feel 
that  my  remarks  have  not  been  made  in  vain. 

"a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder" 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  reminded  that  yesterday  was  the 
ninety-ninth  birthday  anniversary  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Already  preparations  are  being  made  for  a  grand 
centennial  celebration,  suited  to  the  occasion  to  take  place  one  year 
hence.  There  have  been  ninety-nine  years  of  wonderful  accomplish- 
ments in  the  earth.  A  wonderful  work,  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder 
among  the  children  of  men.  A  reform  has  been  wrought  in  the  minds 
and  lives  of  many  thousands  of  people.  A  reform  has  been  wrought 
in  the  religious  creeds  of  this  world ;  and  the  reformation  of  the  future, 
I  am  sure,  will  be  very  much  greater  so  far  as  respects  the  creeds  of 
this  world.  Think  of  it.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  honest  souls  have 
found  a  life  of  happiness,  joy,  hope — yea,  assurance  of  eternal  life, — 
through  yielding  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  this  Gospel, 
and  have  passed  on  to  their  reward ;  the  reward  of  the  faithful ;  the 
reward  of  eternal  life.  And  there  are  now  in  the  Church,  in  the  neigh- 
borhood of  655,000  souis  enjoying  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel,  happy 
in  serving  the  Lord,  in  making  the  sacrifices,  having  a  testimony  and  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth  of  this  work,  so  that  they  are  not  in  doubt.  The 
future  is  clear  before  them.  If  they  can  but  continue  true  and  faithful 
to  the  cause  and  the  covenants  and  obligations  they  have  entered  into, 
the  reward  of  eternal  life  is  certain.  Ninety-nine  years  of  accomplish- 
ments. These  accomplishments  will  be  portrayed  in  an  impressive 
manner  at  the  end  of  a  hundred  years. 

appreciation  of  blessings 

In  vour  presence,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  to  acknowledge 
the  hand  of  God  and  his  blessings  unto  me  and  unto  my  people  whom 
I  love.  For  I  love  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  I  love  the  Lord  and  his 
great  work.  I  appreciate  the  Gospel,  its  blessings  and  ordinances,  as 
of  course  you  do.  I  appreciate  my  membership  in  the  Church,  the 
fellowship  I  have  with  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  association  I  have 
with  them.  I  appreciate  my  association  with  the  leaders  of  this  Church 
whom  I  know  personally  and  well,  and  know  them  to  be  servants  of  God, 
worthy  of  their  calling.  I  am  thankful  to  be  permitted  to  labor  with 
them  in  the  midst  of  this  people,  "to  contribute  a  little,  that  which  I  am 
able  to  do,  towards  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord  here  upon 
the  earth.  I  am  thankful  for  his  sustaining  power  that  has  attended  me 
■  in  my  humble  administrations.  If  I  could  have  done  many  many  times 
more  than  I  have  for  this  cause,  I  would  still  be  indebted  to  the 
Church.  The  Church  owes  me  nothing.  It  owes  no  man  anything. 
No  man  who  ever  became  a  member  of  this  Church  has  fully  paid  the 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


debt  of  obligation  that  he  owes  to  God  and  to  this  Church  and  his 
religion,  no  matter  how  faithful  he  may  have  been. 

DILIGENCE  AND  FAITHFULNESS  URGED 

Brethren  and  sisters,  do  not  be  discouraged  with  the  duties  and 
obligations  resting  upon  you ;  of  paying  your  tithes,  offerings,  con- 
tributions, necessary  in  the  labor  of  the  ministry  at  home  or  abroad.  If 
we  attend  to  these  regularly  and  faithfully,  they  will  tie  us  closer  and 
closer  and  anchor  our  faith  and  our  souls,  and  we  will  be  sure  of 
salvation  as  long  as  we  continue  so  to  do.  It  is  only  those  who 
understand  these  things  and  have  not  the  faith  to  yield  obedience  and 
make  the  sacrifices  that  the  Gospel  entails,  who  are  unhappy  or  dis- 
appointed in  any  degree.  We  cannot  afford,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be 
indifferent  in  this  great  work  or  to  neglect  a  single  duty. 

I  know  that  this  work  is  true  as  I  know  that  I  live.  I  desire  to 
be  true  and  faithful  to  the  end,  and  in  order  to  be  so,  I  know  that 
I  must  have  the  help  of  the  Lord;  and  the  assurance  I  have  is  that 
if  I  do  my  daily  duty  I  will  have  his  help  and  jl  will  be  able  to  remain 
faithful.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  help  me  and  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  be  faithful  and  appreciative  of  his  love,  kindness  and  mercy,  and 
I  do  it  in  the  name  of  'Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  H.  ROBERTS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

"We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that  he  does  now  reveal, 
and  we  believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  important  things 
pertaining  to  the  Kingdom  of  God."  (Article  of  Faith  No.  9.) 

One  of  the  things  that  has  greatly  delighted  me  in  this  conference 
has  been  the  prominence  given  to  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  to  the 
importance  of  it  as  a  means  of  acquainting  the  world  with  that  system 
of  truth  for  which  we  stand.  But  the  passage  from  our  articles  of 
faith  just  repeated  reminds  me  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  only  one 
out  of  very  many  things  that  may  aid  us  in  this  work  of  making  God's 
message  known  to  the  world. 

We  seldom  hear  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  spoken  of  as  a  volume 
of  scripture  and  important  as  a  help  in  convincing  the  world  of  the 
truth  of  our  message.  Perhaps  I  can  present  the  thought  I  hold  in  my 
mind  upon  that  subject  by  relating  a  circumstance  that  happened  very 
many  years  ago  in  the  Southern  States.  On  one  of  the  branch  streams 
of  the  Tennessee  river  in  one  of  our  conference  districts,  there  lived  a 
woman  of  some  considerable  local  fame,  I  may  say,  noted  for  her 
strong  character,  her  intelligence  and  her  religious  sincerity.  It  so 
happened  that  she  invited  us  to  her  home  on  one  of  our  visits  to  induce 
her  to  read  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  to  pay  attention  to  the  doctrines 
we  had  explained.    Several  of  the  local  ministers  who  rather  depended 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


119 


upon  her  as  something  of  a  pillar  in  one  of  their  churches,  heard  with 
alarm  the  fact  that  she  was  reading  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  called 
upon  her  to  persuade  her  to  give  up  her  perusal  of  it ;  and  gave  her  the 
stereotyped  idea  used  by  opponents  of  the  book  at  that  time,  and 
brought  to  her  pamphlets  and  articles  from  periodicals  to  show  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was  fiction  and  originated  in  the  Spaulding  Romance. 
They  urged  her  to  read  this  testimony  against  the  book,  and  she 
promised  them  she  would  do  so.  In  the  course  of  a  week  or  two  they 
returned  to  her  to  inquire  the  progress  she  was  making,  and  she  an- 
swered them  in  substance  in  this  way:  "I  am  somewhat  confused  in 
relation  to  this  Book  of  Mormon.  The  Mormon  elders  tell  one  story 
of  its  origin  and  you  tell  another,  and  I  must  confess  I  am  somewhat 
perplexed  about  it;  but,"  said  she,  "here  is  another  book  that  the 
Mormon  elders  have  presented  to  me  and  which  I  have  read.  They 
call  it  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  purports  to  contain  a  number 
of  revelations  to  Joseph  Smith  which  he  is  said  to  have  received.  It  is 
nearly  equal  in  volume  to  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  there  is  no 
question  at  all  in  relation  to  the  authorship  of  this  book.  None  of 
you  questions,  that  Joseph  Smith  wrote  it.  He  is  the  author  of  it,  and 
claims  everything  in  it  to  be  inspired  of  God;  and  I  wish  to  state  to 
you,"  said  she,  "that  this  book, — the  revelations  that  are  in  it — contains 
as  much  evidence,  and  even  more  evidence,  that  the  man  who  pro- 
duced it  was  inspired  of  God  than  does  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  it 
was  written  by  inspiration.  Now  what  have  you  to  say  to  that,  and  how 
will  you  explain  away  that?"  Of  course  they  had  no  explanation.  The 
Book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants  stands  unquestioned  as  to  its  author- 
ship, and  I  wish  to  express  a  belief  that  there  is  evidence  of  inspiration 
in  it  equal  to  that  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Let  me  just  hurriedly  call  your  attention  to  a  few  of  the  prominent 
revelations  of  the  Book.  If  :I  had  time  I  would  read  some  of  them 
but  that  is  out  of  the  question.  A  number  of  men  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  while  he  was  yet  engaged  in  translating  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  asked  him  to  use  the  sacred  instruments  to  inquire  of  the  Lord 
for  them.  Most  of  them  wanted  to  know  what  was  to  be  their  lot 
and  part  in  this  great  institution  that  they  saw  coming  into  existence. 
The  answer  to  those  inquiries  is  contained  in  some  eight  or  ten  of  the 
early  revelations  received  as,  I  have  described ;  and  iri  every  case  they 
were  told  that  those  who  were  inspired  of  the  Lord  with  desires  to 
help  in  bringing  forth  this  work,  must  proceed  upon  the  lines  of  faith, 
and  hope  and  charity,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  and  with  an 
honest  desire  and  purpose  to  bring  to  pass  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of 
men;  and  that  humility  united  with  these  other  qualifications  equipped 
them  for  this  great  and  wonderful  work  that  God  was  about  to  bring 
forth.  In  no  single  instance  were  they  promised  the  honors  of  men 
or  the  reward  of  personal  prosperity  and  fame.  That,  to  me,  is  one 
of  the  clearest  evidences  that  the  Prophet  was  inspired  of  God. 

Following  through  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  you  will  come  to 
the  wonderful  revelation  in  the  20th  Section,  in  which  is  outlined  the 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


doctrine,  and  being,  and  character  of  God ;  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel ; 
the  moral  law  in  part,  together  with  the  arrangement  for  the  first 
simple  step  in  the  organization  of  the  quorums  of  the  holy  priesthood ; 
and  the  exact  terms  of  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  including  that 
most  masterful  prayer  which  consecrates  the  holy  sacrament.  In  the 
first  part  of  it  is  the  great  and  eternal  doctrine  of  our  faith  in  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  Jesus  Christ  hi§  Son ;  and  these  emblems  asso- 
ciated with  the  prayer  bear  witness  of  their  being  the  symbols  of  man's 
salvation.  In  the  second  part  is  named  the  covenants  which  man  makes 
with  God.  bringing  about  that  union  with  God  by  which  man  may 
participate  in  the  enjoyment  of  his  Spirit  and  always  have  it  to  be 
with  him.  Then  I  might  mention  the  section  read  by  President  Nibley 
this  morning,  Section  50,  containing  the  beautiful  doctrine  which  he  ex- 
pounded. Section  68,  laying  the  foundation  for  the  inspiration  and 
real  force  of  the  priesthood  within  the  Church.  Section  84,  with  its 
doctrine  of  God's  assurance  that  he  will  be  with  his  servants.  Section 
89,  the  health  law  of  the  Church  as  given  by  the  Lord  in  the  Word  of 
Wisdom.  Section  88,  the  revelation  in  which  the  "imminence  of  God," 
in  the  universe ;  the  Spirit  that  proceeds  forth  from  him,  bearing  upon 
it  all  the  attributes  and  powers  of  God,  creative  power,  world-sustain- 
.ing  power,  vital  force,  intelligence-inspiring  power,  the  love-manifest- 
ing power  through  Jesus  Christ,  and  harmonizing  as  no  other  revela- 
tions harmonize,  the  great  universe  of  God  and  the  union  of  our 
world  with  that  universe.  Section  107  should  not  be  omitted,  which  is 
the  doctrine  of  the  priesthood,  and  which  portrays  the  relationship  and 
operations  of  the  several  quorums  of  the  priesthood.  All  these  things 
are  set  forth,  and  it  is  the  record  of  the  living  voice  of  God  as  it  has 
been  manifested  in  bringing  forth  this  great  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  and  bears  the  impress  of  God's  inspiration  upon  it. 

Perhaps  I  might  call  your  attention  to  the  fourth  book  of  scripture 
which  the  Church  accepts  officially  and  by  which  it  is  willing  to  be  judged, 
— The  Pearl  of  Great  Price.  The  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  are  prized  by  us  above 
all  other  books.  If  the  world  but  had  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  and  the 
knowledge  it  conveys,  it  would  shed  a  penetrating  light  upon  all  the 
scriptures  that  our  Christian  friends  acknowledge,  and  make  known 
the  truth  of  God ;  how,  from  the  beginning,  instead  of  dealing  with 
mere  fragments  and  hints  at  the  plan  of  salvation,  it  would  set  forth 
the  whole  plan  clearly.  About  all  the  world  has  in  the  Old  Testament 
about  the  Gospel  is  the  statement  in  Genesis  that  the  seed  of  the 
woman  should  bruise  the  serpent's  head — wound  him  in  a  vital  part, 
overcome  him ;  and  the  implication  that  is  to.  be  seen  in  the  offering 
of  Abel,  and  the  rejection  of  the  offering  by  Cain;  with  here  and  there 
an  indication  of  information  that  underlaid  the  testimony  of  those 
patriarchs  that  they  had  some  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
But  from  the  book  of  Moses  and  in  the  Book  of  Abraham,  in  the  Pear! 
of  Great  Price,  we  get  revelation  of  the  plan  of  salvation  that  was 
instituted  in  heaven  among  the  spirits  that  were  the  children  of  God, 


ELDER  B.  H.  ROBERTS 


121 


and  an  explanation  of  the  earth  life  of  man  that  is  truly  enlighten- 
ing. Patriarchs  from  Adam  to  Noah  have  been  some  of  the 
mightiest  servants  of  God  and  the  greatest  prophets.  They  knew 
very  much  more  than  the  fragmentary  knowledge  that  has  come  to  the 
world  in  our  day. 

For  instance,  how  helpful  it  would  be  if  the  Christian  religious 
world  of  today  could  have  such  a  summary  of  the  Gospel  as  it  was 
known  among  the  ancients,  according  to  the1  Book  of  Moses,  and  that 
rather  mysterious  and  unknown  character,  Enoch,  who  represents  God 
as  giving  the  following  revelation  to  Adam : 

An  Ancient  Discourse  ,on  the  Gospel — 

"And  now,  behold,  I  say  unto  you:  This  is  the  plan  of  salvation  unto  all? 
men,  through  the  blood  of  mine  Only  Begotten,  who  shall  come  in  the 
meridian  of  time. 

"And  behold,  all  things  have  their  likeness,  and  all  things  are  created 
and  made  to  bear  record  of  me,  both  things  which  are  temporal,  and  things 
which  are  spiritual;  things  which  are  in  the  heavens  above,  and  things 
which  are  on  the  earth,  and  things  which  are  in  the  earth,  and  things  which 
are  under  the  earth,  both  above  and  beneath:  all  things  bear  record  of  me. 

'And  it  came  to  pass,  when  the  Lord  had  spoken  with  Adam,  our 
father,  that  Adam  cried  unto  the  Lord,  and  he  was  caught  away  by  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and  was  carried  down  into  the  water,  and  was  laid 
under  the  water,  and  was  brought  forth  out  of  the  water. 

'And  thus  he)  was  baptized,  and  the  Spirit  of  God  descended  upon  him, 
and  thus  he  was  born  of  the  Spirit,  and  became  quickened  in'  the  inner  man. 

"And  herheard  a  voice,  out  of  heaven,  saying:  Thou  art  baptized  with  fire, 
and  with  the  Holy  Ghost.  This  is  the  record  of  the  Father,  and  the  Son, 
from  henceforth  and  forever; 

"And  thou  art  after  the  order  of  him  who  was  without  beginning  of  days 
or  end  of  years,  from  all  eternity  to  all  eternity" 

"Behold,  thou  art  one  in  me,  a  son  of  God;  and  thus  may  all  become 
my  sons."  (Pearl  of  Great  Price,  Book  of  Moses,  6:62-68.) 

This  is  an  outline  of  the  Gospel  which  Adam  knew,  which  Enoch 
preached,  which  Noah  plead  with  the  people  to  accept  in  his  day ;  and 
it  proves  that  the  patriarchal  ages  were  not  as  blind  to  the  things  of 
God  as  the  world  imagines  them  to  have  been. 

Permit  me  to  say  that  the  Book  of  Moses  from  which  I  have  read, 
was  brought  forth  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith — who  received  it  as 
a  revelation  from  God — beginning  as  early  as  June,  1830,  about  three 
months  after  he  completed  the  Book  of  Mormon ;  and  by  the  close 
of  December  of  that  year  the  whole  book  as  we  know  it  was  com; 
pleted.  If  the  world  would  only  accept  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  as 
it  was  in  ancient  times  among  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  we  would 
find  the  matter  of  convincing  them  of  our  truth  very  much  improved. 

This  book  of  Scripture,  the  Book  of  Moses,  as  well  as  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  then,  brings  light  and  truth  into  the  world  for  the  salva- 
tion of  men.  God  grant  that  this  light  and  truth  may  be  extended 
among  the  nations,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 

Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  this  privilege 
of  seeing  this  house  so  well  filled  in  another  annual  conference  of  the 
Church.  I  heartily  accord  with  the  wonderful  testimonies  and  teach- 
ings which  have  been  given  during  the  conference,  and  am  grateful  for 
the  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony,  thus  mingling  my  voice  with  the 
voices  of  my  brethren. 

•  y  OUR  BLESSINGS  , 

Many  of  the  brethren  have  expressed  appreciation  for  the  blessings 
which  have  come  to  the  Church,  each  one  of  them  having  said  some- 
thing pertaining  to  our  great  blessings ;  and  I  have  thought  during  the 
singing  and  the  speaking  of  the  conference  that  surely  the  Lord  has 
guided  and  blessed  it. 

I  would  like  to  refer  to  one  verse  of  the  beautiful  song  that  was 
sung  today  by  the  choir,  which  points  particularly  to  the  thought  of  our 
blessings.  These  lines  have  clung  to  my  memory: 

"The  Gentile  fulness  now  comes  in, 
And  Israel's  blessings  are  at  hand; 
Lo!  Judah's  remnant,  cleansed  from  sin, 
Shall  in  their  promised  Canaan  stand." 

I  have  wondered  what  claim  we  hold  upon  those  wonderful  bless- 
ings, and  yet  each  one  of  the  brethren  has  explained  and  borne  testi- 
mony to  the  kindness  and  mercy  of  the  Lord  in  bringing  about  these 
particular  times  in  which  we  live  and  the  promises  of  the  Lord  to  his 
chosen  Israel  throughout  the  different  times  of  the  world. 

THE  BLESSINGS  OF  EPHRAIM  AND  MANASSEH 

I  am  trying  to  bring  to  you  a  thought  that  has  been  prevalent  in 
my  own  mind  relative  to  these  important  promises,  and  I  have  in  mind 
the  great  blessings  which  were  given  by  the  great  patriarch  Jacob  to 
his  grandsons  Ephraim  and  Manasseh.  When  these  two  lads  were 
taken  to  their  grandfather  for  their  blessings,  their  grandfather  was 
feeble  and  dim  of  sight  because  of  his  age.  There  seems  to  have  been 
a  peculiar  custom  in  those  times  that  when  a  thing  of  this  kind  hap- 
pened the  older  son  was  to  receive  the  blessing  of  the  right  hand 
and  the  younger  son  the  blessing  of  the  left  hand.  But  for  some 
reason  which  was  not  explained,  only  that  the  patriarch  said  that  he 
knew  what  he  was  doing,  when  his  son  Joseph  was  perturbed  in  his 
feelings  Jacob  in  blessing  these  two  boys  crossed  his  arms,  placing 
his  right  hand  upon  the  younger  and  his  left  hand  upon  the  older,  and 
blessed  Ephraim  first.  In  his  explanation  to  Joseph,  the  father  of 
these  boys,  Jacob  said :  Manasseh  shall  become  great,  and  he  shall 
receive  his  blessings ;  but  Ephraim  shall  become  greater,  and  he  shall 
be  a  multitude  of  nations. 

You  heard  in  the  report  made  by  the  President  of  the  Church 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


123 


relative  to  the  growth  of  the  Church,  that  there  are  today  more  than 
one  hundred  stakes  of  Zion.  It  is  the  policy  and  order  of  the  Church 
at  the  present  time  to  have  at  least  one  patriarch,  who  is  authorized 
to  bless  the  members  of  the  stake,  and  in  so  doing,  declare  their  lineage, 
in  a  similar  way  to  the  manner  in  which  Jacob  blessed  his  grandsons,  and 
his  own  sons.  At  the  present  time  in  the  Church  the  great  majority 
of  those  receiving  their  blessings  are  declared  to  be  of  the  house  and 
lineage  of  Ephraim,  while  many  others  are  designated  as  members  of 
the  house  of  Manasseh ;  but  up  to  the  present  time  we  have  discovered 
that  those  who  are  leaders  in  Israel,  no  matter  where  they  come  from, 
no  matter  what  nation  they  have  come  out  of,  are  of  Ephraim;  while 
the  blood  of  Manasseh  is  found  in  the  tribes  and  nations  of  the  Indians 
of  North  and  South'  America.  They  are  great,  they  are  wonderfully 
blessed,  but  Ephraim  seems  to  prevail  in  the  greater  blessings,  greater  in 
responsibility,  and  in  faithfulness  to  the  Lord's  work.  And  so  people 
Thave  wondered  about  it.  Why  do  the  patriarchs  declare  that  most  of 
us  are  of  Ephraim? 

THE  DAY  OF  EPHRAIM 

It  is  my  testimony  that  "today"  is  the  day  of  Ephraim.  It  is  the 
day  which  the  Lord  has  set  to  fulfil  his  promises  made  in  the  times 
of  the  ancient  patriarchs,  when  he  said  that  he  would  scatter  Israel 
to  the  four  corners  of  the  world,  and  that  Ephraim  should  be  scattered 
in,  all  the  nations,  and  then  in  the  "last  days"  be  gathered  out  again. 
Many  are  being  gathered  out  by  our  missionaries,  as  "one  of  a  family 
and  two  of  a  city ;"  and  they  are  found  here,  gathered  into  a  gathering 
place  appointed  of  the  Lord,  and  they  are  receiving  his  blessings.  This 
is  why  so  many  of  us  are  declared  to  be  of  Ephraim.  If  there  were 
time  I  would  like  to  speak  further  about  our  blessings.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  was  declared  to  be  of  this  house  of  Joseph,  a  chosen 
vessel.  Read  II  Nephi,  chapter  3,  relative  to  the  promises  made  re- 
garding him.  But  the  principal  point  I  have  in  mind  at  the  present  time 
is  the  fact  that  we  may  discover  our  lineage,  or  where  we  stand  in  Israel. 

There  have  been  discovered  also,  a  few  of  the  house  of  Israel  who 
belong  to  the  tribe  of  Levi, — an  ancient  priest.  There  are  also  a 
few  of  some  other  tribes  of  Israel,  but  very  few  except  those  of  the 
house  of  Jacob,  as  represented  by  Ephraim  in  the  great  multitudes  who 
are  enjoying  the  blessings  of  the  Church,  and  those  who  are  of 
Manasseh — the  great  multitudes  of  Indians  in  North  and  South 
America. 

THE  LORD'S  PROMISE  UNTO  NEPHI 

The  Prophet  Nephi  (a  Manassehite),  who  was  privileged  to  wit- 
ness the  progress  and  even  the  destruction  of  his  people,  received  a 
particular  promise  from  the  Lord,  wherein  he  was  comforted  in  the 
fact  that  though  his  people  would  be  chastised  and  destroyed  they  would 
not  be  utterly  destroyed,  but  that  they  should  be  mixed  with  his 
brethren  so  that  the  blood  and  the  blessings  of  the  prophets  oi  that 
people  would  not  be  utterly  lost. — Through  my  experience  in  meeting  up 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


with  some  of  our  visitors  from  the  islands  of  the  Pacific  Ocean,  I 
was  able  to  discover  that  the  natives  of  New  Zealand  and  the  natives 
of  the  Hawaiian  Islands  are  chiefly  of  that  mixed  blood  which  the 
Lord  promised  should  not  be  utterly,  destroyed,  but  that  in  the  last  days, 
through  their  faithfulness,  should  receive  the  blessings  of  the  Lord 
and  even  become  a  white  and  delightsome  people. 

The  promises  of  the  Lord  are  being  fulfilled  and  the  blessings  are 
being  administered  under  his  counsel  through  his  holy  servants. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  and  that  he  will  continue  to 
inspire  the  leaders  of  the  Church  to  lead  us  in  the  ways  that  he  would 
have  us  go,  and  that  the  promises  that  the  Lord  has  made  concerning 
Israel,  (the  Jews  and  others  in  the  great  house  of  Israel)  may  be 
rapidly  realized. 

"judah's  remnant" 

The  Jews  are  preparing  to  return  to  the  land  that  was  given  to  them 
for  their  inheritance.  Many  of  them  have  already  returned.  5o 
"Judah's  remnant  will  receive  their  blessings  in  their  promised  Canaan." 
However  a  few  of  the  Jews  have  come  into  the  Church. 

THE  LAW  OF  ADOPTION 

We  have  also  a  number  in  the  Church,  who,  so  far  as.  we  are  able 
to  judge  and  learn,  did  not  originally  beiong  to  the  house  of  Israel  at  all. 
Then  you  say,  where  do  they  get  their  blessings?  What  is  their  lineage? 
Well,  I  explain  that  in  this  way:  When  you  adopt  a  child  that  does 
not  belong  to  you  originally,  and  that  child  grows  up  in  your  family, 
it  obtains  its  blessings  the  same  as  othef  members  of  your  family.  It 
is  the  same  as  your  own.  If  I  adopt  a  child  that  is  born  in  the  world 
1  share  my  blessings  with  that  child,  as  he  shares  his  blessings  with 
me.  In  my  household  I  am  responsible,  he  partakes  at  the  same  "table," 
the  same  blessings.  By  the  law  of  adoption  that  child  receives  his  right 
to  the  blessings  of  my  household,  and  therefore  he  belongs  to  my 
household  through  the  law  of  adoption.  Through  our  faithfulness  we 
are  all  adopted  into  the  fold  of  Christ.  We  are  his  and  his  blessings 
are  upon  us,  through  our  faithfulness  in  obeying  the  laws  of  his  Gospel. 
And)  so,  if  other  people  outside  of  the  house  of  Israel  have  faith  and 
obedience  enough  to  come  into  the  Church  they  will  receive  their  lineage 
and  blessings  according  to  the  house  which  they  enter.  If  they  enter 
into  the  family  of  Israel  they  will  receive  the  same  lineage  as  the  house 
or  tribe  that  adopted  them,  just  the  same  as  the  adopted  child  receives 
the  blessings  of  the  family  that  adopted  him. 

That  is  my  idea.  I  hope  that  I  have  made  it  clear.  And  so  today 
we  are  discovering,  through  the  kindness  and  mercy  of  the  Lord,  that 
his  promises  are  being  fulfilled  and  that  his  blessings  are  being  re- 
ceived by  those  who  are  observing  his  laws  and  keeping  his  com- 
mandments. 

TESTIMONY  AND  BLESSING 

I  have  a  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord;  that  the 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


125 


Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  in  very  deed,  the  descendant  of 
Joseph  who  was  sold  into  Egypt,  through  the  lineage  of  Ephraim,  a 
promised  vessel  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord;  and  that  those  who  have 
succeeded  him  in  the  advancement  and  progress  of  the  Church  have 
also  been  inspired  and  blessed  as  chosen  vessels  in  the  hands  of  the 
Lord.  I  am  very  grateful  for  the  testimony  I  have;  of  the  divinity  of 
this  work.  I  pray  the  Lord's  blessing  upon  those  who  carry  responsi- 
bility in  the  work  entrusted  to  them, — President  Grant  and  his  asso- 
ciates, the  General  Authorities,  you  men  and  women  who  are  laboring 
throughout  the  stakes  and  wards,  in  the  Church  schools  and  in  the 
temples,  also  the  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  laboring  in  the  mission 
field.  I  pray  God's  blessings  upon  you  all  and  upon  the  entire  Church 
and  its  membership  and  those  who  befriend  it, — the  honest  in  heart 
and  the  worthy  throughout  the  world.  May  God's  blessings  go  with 
you  to  your  homes,  and  help  you  to  serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his 
commandments,  and  help  to  bring  about  his  holy  purposes,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

One  of  the  regrets  that  we  nearly  always  have  in  our  conferences  is 
that  we  do  not  seem  to  have  quite  time  enough  to  hear  from  all  of  those 
whom  we  would  like  to  hear.  As  you  will  see  by  the  clock  there  are 
only  twenty  minutes  left  and  we  have  yet  four  speakers.  We  will  ask 
Brothers  Charles  H.  Hart  and  J.  Golden  Kimball  to  occupy  fifteen 
minutes  between  them,  and  we  shall  not  have  time  to  hear  the  others. 

ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of  the 
Canadian  Mission 

While  traveling  through  the  State  of  Vermont,  last  summer,  ter- 
ritory newly  added  to  the  Canadian  mission,  while  visiting  the  granite 
works  at  Barre,  Vermont,  my  attention  was  called  to  an  issue  of 
The  Granite  Cutter's  Journal,  published  in  Quincy,  Massachusetts,  con- 
taining a  splendid  article  entitled  "The  Mormon  Battalion  Monument", 
illustrated  by  four  full  pages  of  photographs  of  the  monument.  The 
editor  said  that  one  look  at  the  photographs  of  the  monument  and  he 
"realized  that  a  single  view  of  it  would  not  be  sufficient  to  bring 
out  its  great  merit ;"  therefore  all  four  photographs  were  reproduced. 

A  letter  from  the  Secretary  of  the  American  Granite  Association 
was  cjuoted  in  part  as  follows  : 

"I  think  the  monument  is  one  of  the  finest  things!  that  has  ever  come  to 
our  attention  in  this  office.  It  is  strikingly  original  in  the  matter  of  design, 
and  the  photographs  show  that  the  carving  around  the  base  is  executed  with 
unusual  delicacy  and  accuracy.  Insofar  as  the  photograph  shows,  I  do  not 
believe  that  there  is  another  piece  of  granite  carving  anywhere  in  the  country 
done  in  such  delicate  detail  unless  it  is  the  Robert  Burns  Monument  in  Barre, 
Vermont." 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  secretary  stated  that  the  Salt  Lake  monument  is  good  proof 
of  the  fact  "that  anything  that  can  be  carved  in  marble  can  be  carved 
in  granite  if  it  is  seamed,  designed  and  executed  with  proper  knowledge 
of  the  cutting  of  granite."  He  then  presented  descriptive  matter  as 
to  each  panel.  As  to  the  panel  "The  Enlistment,"  the  article  states: 

"Upon  the  north  side  of  the  monument  is  shown  'The  Enlistment'  of  the 
Mormon  Battalion  under  the  flag  of  the  United  States  of  America.  Dominat- 
ing this  scene  is  the  central  figure  representing  the  eager,  fearless  and  ag- 
gressive spirit  of  youth.  A  prominent  feature  of  the  scene  is  a  portrait  of 
Brigham  Young  in  high  relief.  Captain  James  Allen  is  shown  in  the  back- 
ground, as  are  also  the  youths  grouped  around  the  enlistment  table.  This 
is  the  scene  of  farewell,  which  sentiment  is  expressed  in  all  of  its  poignancy 
in  the  grief  of  the  lover,  and  in  the  parting  of  the  volunteer  with  his  wife 
and  children." 

Then  there  is  presented  other  descriptions  and  the  inscriptions  also 
upon  the  monument. 

Inasmuch  as  it  became  my  duty  under  the  appointment  of  his  Ex- 
cellency, the  Governor,  and  two  of  his  predecessors,  to  share  with  others 
particularly  in  the  raising  of  the  last  twelve  or  fifteen  thousand  dollars 
that  had  to  be  obtained  by  popular  subscription,  and  inasmuch  as  I  have 
never  had  the  opportunity  before  of  expressing  my  thanks  to  those 
people  who  so  generously  came  to  the  support  of  the  committee  at 
that  time,  although  I  realize  that  this  was  purely  a  civic  enterprise, 
I  am  wondering  whether  it  would  not  be  in  place  to  extend  thanks 
to  the  many  thousands  that  I  know  are  within  the  sound  of  my  voice, 
for  their  response  to  the  requests  by  telephone  and  personal  appeal 
for  the  raising  of  these  last  thousands. 

In  passing  through  the  city  of  Chicago  the  other  day  I  was  re- 
minded of  our  M.  I.  A.  slogan,  "We  stand  for  law,  for  the  people  who 
live  it,  and  for  the  officers  who  enforce  it."  At  Springfield,  Illinois, 
there  appeared  before  the  judiciary  committee  the  noted  criminal  lawyer, 
Mr.  Clarence  S.  Darrow,  in  opposition  to  a  bill  which  had  been  spon- 
sored by  the  Advisory  Council  of  Chicago,  and  by  the  Bar  Association 
of  Chicago.  Air.  Darrow  received  about  the  same  cordial  reception  at 
the  hands  of  State  Senator  Roy  C.  Woods  and  Judge  Harry  M.  Fisher 
of  the  Circuit  Court  of  Chicago,  that  Goliath  of  Gath  received  at 
the  hands  of  the  shepherd  boy  David.  Bishop  Whitney  has  asked  the 
question — some  of  you  may  have  heard  it — "Why  was  Goliath  sur- 
prised at  the  sling-shot  thrown  by  David?"  and  the  answer  was,  "Be- 
cause nothing  of  that  kind  had  ever  entered  his  head  before." 
(Laughter.)  I  am  sure  that  this  modern  Philistine  received  a  salutary 
lesson  from  the  reception  which  he  received  at  Springfield  the  other 
day. 

Judge  Fisher  said  that  the  criminal  situation  in  Chicago  is  due  to 
the  "continuous  vilification  of  our  courts ;  to  the  impotence  of  those 
courts  under  our  law  that  has  led  to  a  belief  among  the  criminal  element 
that  it  may  safely  come  to  Chicago  and  practice  its  business  and  escape 
punishment." 

I  wish  that  the  sentiment  of  the  M.  1.  A.  slogan  recited  in  concert 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART 


127 


in  the  Church  during  the  past  six  months,  pledging  support  in  sus- 
taining law  might  be  recited  in  concert  not  only  by  our  members  and 
others  in  the  State  of  Illinois,  but  elsewhere  throughout  the  country. 

The  work  in  the  Canadian  mission  is  going  forward  in  a  way  that 
cultivates  the  faith  of  our  missionaries.  I  thought  of  them  as  the  com- 
bined choirs  sang  so  beautifully  this  afternoon  in  reference  to  the 
messengers  who  bring  the  gospel  of  peace.  When  major  operations  were 
necessary  our  missionaries  have  gone  to  the  operating  table  with  calm- 
ness and  with  a  faith  that  has  been  surprising  to  the  attendants.  They 
have  been  diligent  in  circulating  the  Book  of  Mormon.  One  elder 
just  wrote  me  that  he  put  out  forty-five  copies  in  two  days,  and  he 
gave,  to  each  of  the  state  officials  of  one  state  a  copy  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  The  elders  have  been  very  free  in  presenting  their  testi- 
mony of  the  Gospel  to  ministers,  school  teachers,  and  other  leading 
people.  Hundreds  of  intelligent  people  in  one  province  are  said 
to  be  now  ready  to  listen  to  the  Gospel  if  we  had  missionaries  to  bear 
that  word  to  them.  Our  missionaries  are  very  few  in  number  in  that 
province. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 

Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 

I  often  tell  a  story  when  called  up  to  speak  just  as  we  are  about 
to  close  the  meeting,  which  happens  to  me  occasionally. 

A  little  fellow  was  sick  and  he  went  to  the  doctor  who  was  a 
herbalist.  The  doctor  gave  him  four  herbs  and  told  him  to  boil  them 
in  a  quart  of  water  and  drink  it  all.  The  little  fellow  said :  "I  can't. 
I  only  hold  a  pint."    I  am  wondering  how  much  you  people  hold? 

I  have  enjoyed  the  conference.  I  have  not  had  much  peace  here 
for  a  considerable  length  of  time.  The  President  has  been  calling  people 
up  from  all  around  me. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  the  few  words  I  speak 
I  may  be  able  to  impress  the  people  of  this  Church  with  the  fact,  as 
I  am  quite  sure  I  have  done  in  the  past,  that  I  am  frank  and  honest 
and  sincere  in  my  faith  as  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

I  believe  all  that  has  been  revealed.  I  have  no  doubt  whatsoever 
of  the  truth  of  this  work.  I  have  gone  out  like  others  have  done,  and 
have  found  God,  and  God  has  answered  my  prayers.-  I  have  heard  that 
still  small  voice,  and  I  have  an  assurance,  and  as  much  knowledge  as  has 
been  given  to  me  by  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  that  this  is  God's 
work. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  the  people.  I  have  no  grievance.  No  man 
can  ever  be  treated  better  than  I  have  been.  If  I  have  been  corrected 
once  or  twice  it  has  done  me  more  good  than  anything  else  that 
has  happened  to  me.   The  Lord  bless  you.  Amen. 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

From  the  way  we  have  nearly  always  been  crowded  in  the  con- 
ferences that  have  been  held  during  the  past  ten  years,  at  which  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  presiding,  I  am  wondering  if  it  would  not  be  ad- 
visable, as  I  am  sure  we  dislike  very  much  not  to  hear  from  all  of  the 
General  Authorities,  to  arrange  to  hold  a  conference  meeting  the  night 
before  the  usual  conference  sessions.  I  thought  that  inasmuch  as  two 
of  the  brethren.  Elders  Reed  Smoot  and  John  A.  Widtsoe,  are  not  here, 
there  might  be  ten  or  fifteen  minutes  left  for  me.  But  in  some  way 
when  people  start  to  talk  on  the  Gospel  they  get-  warmed  up,  and  al- 
though the  clock  is  right  in  front  of  them,  they  very  frequently  do 
not  see  it. 

In  my  opening  remarks  I  occupied  ten  minutes,  in  addition  to 
the  time  required  to  give  the  statistics  of  the  Church,  and  I  was  in 
hopes  that  I  might  have  some  little  time  in  which  to  speak  to  you 
before  the  close  of  the  conference.  I  have  made  up  my  mind  to  take 
it  notwithstanding  the  usual  time  of  closing  has  arrived. 

THE  TESTIMONY  OF  TWELVE  WITNESSES 

The  theme  of  this  conference  has  been  the  Book  of  Mormon.  I 
do  not  believe  that  in  any  court  of  justice  in  the  world  if  a  man  was 
being  tried  for  murder  and  twelve  reputable  citizens  testified  of  their 
knowledge  of  the  circumstances  leading  to  the  murder,  and  there  was 
no  one  who  could  testify  against  what  they  said,  there  would  be  a 
failure  to  convict  the  man.  We  have  the  testimony  of  Joseph  Smith 
and  the  testimony  of  three  witnesses  to  the  effect  that  God  gave  them 
a  knowledge  regarding  the  Book  of  Mormon,  that  an  angel  of  God 
declared  from  heaven  that  the  book  had  been  translated  by  the  gift 
and  power  of  God.  These  men  were  Oliver  Cowdery,  David 
Whitmer  and  Martin  Harris.  They  left  the  Church,  but  to 
the  day  of  their  death  they  maintained  their  testimony  regarding  the 
declaration  of  the  angel,  and  that  they  were  commanded  to  bear  witness 
of  the  divinity  of  this  book,  and  they  did  so.  Eight  men,  some  of  whom 
were  excommunicated  from  the  Church,  maintained  their  testimony 
that  they  had  seen  and  handled  the  plates  from  which  the  Book  of 
Mormon  was  translated,  and  they  remained  true  to  that  testimony  to 
the  day  of  their  death.  The  disbelief  of  all  the  world  does  not  prove 
that  those  men  did  not  tell  the  truth,  because  there  are  no  witnesses  on 
the  other  side. 

A  TRUE  WITNESS  FOR  GOD 

It  has  been  said  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  has  fraud  written  upon 
every  page  of  it.  The  Book  of  Mormon  is  in  absolute  harmony  from 
start  to  finish  with  other  sacred  scriptures.  There  is  not  a  doctrine 
taught  in  it  that  does  not  harmonize  with  the  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ. 
There  is  not  one  single  expression  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  would 
wound  in  the  slightest  degree  the  sensitiveness  of  any  individual.  There 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


is  not  a  thing  in  it  but  what  is  for  the  benefit  and  uplift  of  mankind. 
It  is  in  every  way  a  true  witness  for  God,  and  it  sustains  the  Bible 
and  is  in  harmony  with  the  Bible.  No  group  of  men  can  write  a 
book  of  six  or  seven  hundred  pages  that  is  a  fraud  and  have  it  in 
harmony  in  every  particular  with  the  scriptures  that  were  given  to  us 
by  the  prophets  of  God  and  by  Jesus  Christ  and  his  Apostles. 

A  gentleman  told  me  that  he  had  read  Joseph  Smith's  own  story. 
He  said  that  no  liar  ever  told  such  a  story.  No  liar  could  write  such  a 
book;  and  the  evidences  of  the  book's  truthfulness  are  coming  to  light 
day  by  day. 

THE  USE  OF  CEMENT 

I  have  often  said  and  desire  to  repeat  here  that  when  I  was  a 
young  unmarried  man,  another  young  man  who  had  received  a  doctor's 
degree  ridiculed  me  for  believing  in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  He  said 
he  could  point  out  two  lies  in  that  book.  One  was  that  the  people 
had  built  their  homes  out  of  cement  and  that  they  were  very  skilful 
in  the  use  of  cement.  He  said  there  had  never  been  found  and  never 
would  be  found,  a  house  built  of  cement  by  the  ancient  inhabitants 
of  this  country,  because  the  people  in  that  early  age  knew  nothing 
about  cement.  He  said  that  should  be  enough  to  make  one  disbelieve 
the  book.  I  said :  "That  does  not  affect  my  faith  one  particle.  I  read 
the  Book  of  Mormon  prayerfully  and  supplicated  God  for  a  testimony 
in  my  heart  and  soul  of  the  divinity  of  it,  and  I  have  accepted  it  and 
believe  it  with  all  my  heart."  I  also  said  to  him,  "If  my  children  do  not 
find  cement  houses,  I  expect  that  my  grandchildren  will."  He  said, 
"Well,  what  is  the  good  of  talking  with  a  fool  like  that?"  Now,  since 
that  time  houses  made  of  cement  and  massive  structures  of  the  same 
material  have  been  uncovered. 

Not  very  far  from  the  City  of  Mexico  there  is  a  monument  two 
hundred  and  ten  feet  high,  built  of  cement,  that  was  supposed  to  be  a 
big  hill.  My  first  counselor  has  stood  on  that  monument.  You  could 
put  forty  tabernacles  like  this  one  inside  of  it.  It  covers  more  than 
ten  acres  of  ground  and  is  two  and  a  half  times  higher  than  this 
building.  From  the  top  of  that  monument  one  can  see  small  mounds, 
and  as  these  mounds  are  being  uncovered  they  are  found  to  be  won- 
derfully built  cement  houses,  with  drain  pipes  of  cement,  showing 
skill  and  ability,  superior  almost  to  anything  we  have  today  so  far 
as  the  use  of  cement  is  concerned. 

THE  VOICE  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

Another  statement  that  this  doctor  made  was  this:  that  the  voice 
of  man  can  only  carry  a  few  hundred  feet,  and  yet  the  Book  of 
Mormon  teaches  that  when  Jesus  Christ  was  resurrected  and  came  to 
this  country  he  spoke  to  the  people  and  his  voice  was  heard  all  over 
the  land,  not  alone  by  the  people  that  were  near,  but  all  over  the  land. 
"That  is  a  lie,"  said  he,  "and  you  know  it."  I  said,  "That  is  no  lie 
at  all.    Jesus  Christ,  under  God,  was  the  Creator  of  this  earth,  and 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


if  he  had  the  power  and  ability  to  create  the  earth  I  believe  that 
he  could  arrange  for  his  voice  to-  carry  all  over  the  world  at  one  and  the 
same  time." 

The  radio  is  doing-  what?  I  read  the  other  day  that  a  song  had 
been  heard  nine  thousand  miles  away,  not  only  every  word  of  it,  but 
every  note.  (There  are  several  notes  in  every  word.)  We  had  four 
letters  from  New  Zealand  or  Australia,  I  have  forgotten  which,  to  the 
effect  that  people  there  had  heard  perfectly  the  programs  that  had  been 
broadcast  over  the  radio  by  the  Martha  Washington  Candy  Company. 
In  that  program  the  announcement  was  made  that  if  anybody  in  a 
foreign  land  who  heard  the  program  would  so  indicate  there  would 
be  sent  to  him  a  pound  box  of  candy,  and  four  people  wrote'  for  the 
boxes  of  candy.  It  takes  the  sun  eighteen  and  one  half  hours  to  travel 
that  far,  yet  the  voice  carried  that  distance  as  quickly  as  you  can  snap 
your  finger. 

I  said  to  this  man :  "The  voice  of  the  Savior  could  go  all  over  the 
world  if  he  so  arranged  it."  The  radio  has  proven  what  I  said.  Faith 
is  a  gift  of  God,  and  I  thank  God  for  the  faith  in  and  the  knowledge 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  which  I  had  in  my  youthful 
days,  and  that  these  two  alleged  scientific  facts,  which  are  now  known  to 
be  fallacies,  did  not  destroy  my  faith. 

LISTENERS  IN  DISTANT  PLACES 

I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  time  that  we  have  had  together  here. 
I  want  to  request  our  people  and  any  that  are  not  of  our  faith  who  are 
listening  in  distant  places  to  what  I  am  saying,  to  send  a  postal  card 
informing  us  of  that  fact.  If  there  is  a  little  gathering  of  a  dozen  or 
more  people  in  a  home,  or  in  a  meeting-house,  in  any  part  of  the 
country  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  listening  over  the  radio  to  these 
services,  please  send  a  postal  card  to  the  Bishop's  Office  telling  how 
many  were  listening  to  the  services.  And  if  there  are  any  who  are 
not  of  our  faith  who  are  listening  in  we  would  appreciate  it  if  they, 
too.  would  notify  us  that  they  have  heard  the  services.  We  would  like 
to  know  how  many  people  have  heard  the  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne  during  this  conference,  given  by  men  who  are  devoting  their  lives 
and  all  that  is  in  them  for  the  advancement  of  truth  and  the  spread  of 
righteousness. 

BLESSINGS  INVOKED 

I  pray  God  to  bless  each  and  every  soul  on  the  face  of  the  earth 
that  believes  in  God,  and  for  those  who  do  not,  I  pray  that  God  may 
help  them  to  obtain  a  testimony  that  he  lives,  that  he  is  the  Father  of 
our  spirits,  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world. 

SHOULD  LIVE  THE  GOSPEL 

I  hope  and  pray  that  the  saints  will '  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.    I  hope  that  they  will  listen  to  the  teachings  of  the  presidents 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


131 


of  stakes  and  bishops  of  wards.  I  want  to  say  that  we  expect  every 
president  of  a  stake  and  every  bishop  of  a  ward  to  teach  the  people  the 
truth.  We  want  them  to  tell  the  people  that  they  are  expected  to  obey 
the  Word  of  Wisdom,  to  be  honest  tithe-payers,  to  remember  the 
covenants  that  they  make  in  the  temples  of  God,  and  not  mutilate  their 
garments  :  that  we  expect  them  to  quit  playing  cards ;  and  that  we  expect 
them  to  do  their  duty  as  saints,  and  to  preach  the  Gospel  by  living  it. 

May  God  help  each  and  every  one  of  us  that  has  a  testimony  of 
this  Gospel  to  live  it,  is  my  earnest  prayer.  I  pray  God  to  bless 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  the  honest  the  world  over,  and  I  do  it  in 
humility  and  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer. 
Amen. 

An  anthem,  "Worthy  the  Lamb,"  was  sung  by  the  combined  choirs. 
The  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  R.  Smith,  Pres- 
ident of  the  Woodruff  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 


Professor  Anthony  C-  Lund  conducted  the  singing.  Accompani- 
ments and  interludes  were  played  on  the  great  organ  by  Edward  P. 
Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  Alexander  Schreiner,  and  Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Allred,  Elder  John  G. 
Authorities  Present  . 


41 

1 

86 
64 


Authorities,  Presentation  of 
Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J.  . . 


The  present  generation,  65— Corruption  of  morals  brings  destruc- 
tion of  faith,  65 — Methods  of  the  adversary,  65 — The  trials  of 
peace  and  prosperity,  66— Snares  of  the  evil  one,  66— A  peculiar 
people,  67— The  single  standard,  67— Protection  through  modesty, 
68 — Pattern  makers  for  the  world,  68 — Marriage  for  a  holy  and 
sacred  purpose,  68 — Poverty  not  a  ban,  69 — The  crime  of  sexual 
impurity,  69 — The  wages  of  sin,  69 — Reward  of  the  virtuous,  69 — 
A  worthy  example,  70 — Requirements  to  weather  the  storm,  70. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   16 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  :   23 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   93 

Vital  statistics  known  abroad,  93 — Extent  of  charity  assistance, 
93 — Fasting  and  Fast  donations,  94 — The  Church  and  social  wel- 
fare, 94 — Responsibility  for  those  in  need,  95 — Dangers  of  indis- 
criminate giving,  95 — Family  the  basic  unit,  95 — Care  of  orphans 
and  dependent  children,  95 — Requirements  for  normal  family  life, 
96 — Vocational  training,  96 — Providing  of  employment,  97 — 
Bishoprics,  Relief  Society,  and  Social  service,  97— Development  ' 
of  industries,  98 

Clawson,  President  Rudger    25 

Witnesses  who  testify  concerning  God's  work,  25 — The  Bible  as 
a  witness,  25 — The  Book  of  Mormon,  26 — Ancient  predictions 
fulfilled,  27— The  .third  Witness,  28— The  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
28 — Witnesses  whose  testimonies  agree,  28 — Individual  testi- 
mony, 29. 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   25 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   86 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   86 

General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  .   87 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 

Missionary  work,  2 — Churdh  expenditures,  2 — Seminaries  versus 
Church  schools,  3 — Statistical  and  other  reports  compiled  from 
the  Church  records  for  the  year  1928,  4 — Church  Growth,  4 — 
Social  statistics,  5 — Changes  in  stake  and  mission  officers  since 
last  conference,  $ — Mission  president  appointed,  5 — Church 
institutes,  6 — Importance  of  religious  training,  6 — Statement  by 
Coolidge,  7 — The  value  of  the  Gospel,  7. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   16 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   62 

Elder  Rossiter's  service  in  the  mission  field,  62. 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Grant,  President  Heber  J   64 

Speakers  at  conferences,  64. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J.   86 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers,  86. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J   88 

Elder  Joseph  Wilford  Booth,  88— Sister  Martha  Home  Tingey,  88: 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  125 

Insufficient  time  at  conferences,  125. 
Grant,  President  Heber  J  128 

The  testimony  of  twelve  witnesses,  128 — A  true  witness  for  God, 

128 — The  use  of  cement,  129 — The  voice  of  the  Savior,  129 — 

Listeners  in  distant  places,  130 — Blessings  invoked,  130 — Should 

live  the  Gospel,  130. 

Hart,  Elder  Charles  H  125 

Ivins,  President  Anthony  W   8 


Protection  from  storm,  8 — Misrepresentation,  9 — One  of  the  ob- 
jections, 9 — His  own  argument,  10 — The  use  of  steel,  10 — Animals 
of  ancient  America,  11 — Fine  pearls,  11 — Without  knowledge  of 
the  future,  12 — The  goldsmith  art,  12 — Millions  in  Gold,  13 — 
Plates  of  gold,  13 — Not  unreasonable,  14 — Familiarity  with  the 
book  required,  14 — The  teachings  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  15 — 


No  definite  solution,  15. 

Jones,  Elder  Miles  L  ?   38 

Kimball,  Elder  J.  Golden   127 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   76 


What  people  desire  to  know,  76 — The  lig'ht  and  the  voice,  77 — 
Effects  of  the  vision,  77 — The  spirit  of  America,  77 — The  wisdom 
of  Franklin,  78 — The  faith  of  Lincoln,  78 — The  powers  of  heaven,  , 
79 — Another  modern  instance,  79 — Visions  of  long  ago,  79 — In 


the  tops  of  the  mountains,  80 — The  present  spirit  of  peace,  80 — 
"In  the  last  days",  81. 

McKay,  Elder  David  0   98 

True  religion,  98 — Wrong  thinking,  98 — Unstable  opinions,  99 — 
Sinful  influences,  100 — A  sense  of  responsibility  toward  others. 
100— Prayer,  101— Reverence,  102. 

McMurrin,  Elder  Joseph  W  106 

Moyle,  Elder  James  H   18 

Nibley,  President  Charles  W   89 

The  spirit  of  truth,  89 — The  spirit  of  evil,  90 — Contending  influ- 
ences, 90 — If  only  to  deceive,  90 — Grace  being  added  to  grace,  91 — 
Intelligence — light  and  truth,  91 — In  no  other  way,  92. 

Officers  and  other  Authorities  present   1 

Pond,  Elder  Noah  S  '   35 

Pratt,  Elder  Rey  L   70 

Richards,  Elder  George  F  '  115 

The  Conference  pamphlet,  115 — The  importance  of  tithe  paying, 
116 — Gems  of  information,  116 — "A  marvelous  work  and  a  won- 
der", 117 — Appreciation  of  blessings,  117 — Diligence  and  faith- 
fulness urged,  118. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   49 

The  law  of  tithing,  49 — The  relationship  of  money  and  property 
to  Christianity,  50 — Money  and  myself,  50 — Test  of  faith  is  giving, 


INDEX 


135 


50—  Sovereignty  of  God,  50—  Bought  with  a  price,  51— Partnership 
with  God,  51— Payment  of  dues,  51— Thrift  habits,  51— Economy, 

51—  Spiritual  power,  52— Honesty,  52— Need  of  the  tithe,  52— Use 
of  tithing  funds,  52 — Enjoyment  of  tithe  paying,  53— Monthly 
payments,'  53 — Consecration,  53. 

Roberts,  Elder  Brigham  H  118 

Rolapp,  Elder  Henry  H   58 

Rossiter,  Elder  Ernest  C   60 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   44 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   64 

Sloan,  Elder  William  R   57 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   29 

Perilous  times,  30 — -Conservation  advised,  30 — Consistency  in  our 
lives,  30 — The  things  of  the  world,  31 — Evils  that  afflict  mankind, 
31 — Divine  instruction,  31 — Duties  of  parents,  32 — Integrity  and 
industry  important,  32 — Harmful  literature,  32 — The  safe  course, 

33 —  Teaching  in  the  home,  33 — Evils  and  designs  in  hearts  of 
conspiring  men,  34 — Joy  and  blessings  through  righteous  lives, 

34 —  Our  Father's  work,  34. 

Smith,  Elder  Hyrum  G  122 

Our  blessings,  122 — The  blessings  of  Ephraim  and  Manasseh, 

122 —  The  day  of  Ephraim,  123 — The  Lord's  promise  unto  Nephi, 

123 —  "Judah's  remnant,"  124 — The  law  of  adoption,  124 — -Testi- 
mony and  blessing,  124. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   54 

A  critical  time,  54 — Ingratitude  in  times  of  prosperity,  54 — The 
words  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  54 — All  things  obedient  except 
man,  55 — Keep  the  commandments,  55 — Necessity  of  constant  in- 
structions and  guidance,  56 — Blessings  contingent  upon  obe- 
dience, 56. 

Talmage,  Elder  James  E   44 

As  to  Book  of  Mormon  lands,  44 — How  to  know  for  one's  self, 
45 — The  book  of  Isaiah  and  the  Book  of  Mormon,  45 — Book  of 
Isaiah  complete  before  600  B.  C,  46 — Integrity  of  Isaiah  affirmed 
by  the  resurrected  Lord,  46 — Students  and  teachers,  be  consistent 
and  true  to  your  testimony,  47 — Differences  in  style  of  writing, 
47 — Be  true  to  your  testimony,  48 — Rejection  of  prophecy,  49. 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting   89 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   109 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  102 

Whitney,  Elder  Orson  F  109 

Differences  of  viewpoint,  109— Mother  and  daughter,  109— Elder 
Kimball's  pro  and  con,  110— The  youth  of  Zion,  110— A  word  for 
the  wayward,  110 — A  precious  promise,  110 — A  scene  from  Shake- 
speare, 111— A  colonizing  proposition,  111 — How  made,  112 — As 
Dickens  saw  them,  112— An  English  heroine,  112— "I  cannot  make 
the  sacrifice",  113 — The  impelling  motives,  114. 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S   62 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   •  81 


Can  you  answer  all  of  the  questions  that  are  put  to  you  about 
the  Church? 


THE  OFFICIAL 

History  of  the  Church 

Will  answer  many  of  these  questions  for  you. 

IN  SIX  LARGE  VOLUMES 

Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  published  by  the  Church. 
Completing  the  First  Period. 

"The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  introduction  and 
notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts. 

Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  Private  Library 
should  have  a  set. 

Cloth— Embossed,  per  vol  ,  $2.50  Postpaid 

Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  vol  _  3.50  " 

Full  Morocco — Full  Gilt  Edge,  per  vol  —  6.00  " 

The  above  work  is  suggested  as  reference  in  connection  with  the 
study  of  Church  History  in  all  of  the  activities  of  the  Church. 


For  the  reader  who  does  not  want  this  exhaustive  history,  we  rec- 
ommend the  one  volume  book  entitled 

Essentials  in  Church  History 

BY  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

"As  the  title  of  the  book  implies,  the  vital  and  essential  points  of 
history  and  doctrine  have  been  selected,  and  as  far  as  possible  arranged 
in  chronological  order." 

PRICE,  CLOTH  BINDING-$1.75 


Deseret  Book  Company 

44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  P.  O.  BOX  1793 


WHENCE  THIS  GOSPEL  WE  TEACH? 


Read: 


"Restoration  of  the  Gospel" 

BY  OSBORNE  J.  P.  WIDTSOE 

"This  book  prepared  by  Elder  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe,  dealing  wita 
the  important  subject  of  the  Restoration  of  the  everlasting  Gospel, 
should  be  read  and  its  contents  carefully  considered  by  those  who  are 
seeking  after  truth."  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr. 

PRICE  $1.00  POSTPAID 


A  Book  You  Have  Been  Waiting  For 
An  India  Paper  Edition  of 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST 

THAT  EXCELLENT  TREATISE  BY 
ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Just  Fits  The  Pocket 
An  Excellent  Present  For  The  Missionary  Friend 

PRICE  $5.00  POSTPAID 


ARTICLES  OF  FAITH 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

A  consideration  of  the  principal  doctrines  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

This  book  will  be  helpful  to  all  who  desire  a  clear  and  concr|ete 
exposition  of  tihe  beliefs  and  attitudes  of  the  "Mormons." 

LIBRARY  EDITION.  BLUE  CLOTH.  $1.00  POSTPAID 
MISSIONARY  EDITION.   BROWN  CLOTH.   50c  POSTPAID 

Deseret  Book  Company 


44  EAST  ON  SOUTH  TEMPLE 


SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


P.  O.  BOX  1793 


