Om.  dtundhsuL  Jw&nfy-pJi&L 
ANNUAL 


MfEREIlCf 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

fipjuL  6,  7,  8  arut  9, 
1951 

With  Report  of  Discourses 

Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


"THE  ENIGMA  OF  PMMYRA" 

For  more  than  100  years  vigorous,  but  futile  attempts  have  been 
made  to  explain  him  away,  only  to  be  rejected,  discredited  or 
abandoned. 

One  explanation  survives  the  tests  of  time  and  truth.  Read  it, 
and  its  many-sided  manifestations  in  these  books: 


JOSEPH  SMITH,  AN  AMERICAN  PROPHET  $3.50 

By  John  Henry  Evans 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  THE  PROPHET  $3.50 

By  Preston  Nibley 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH  $2.75 

By  Joseph  Fielding  Smith 

PROPHECIES  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND 

THEIR  FULFILLMENT  ....$1.75 

By  Nephi  L  Morris 


One  significant  and  impressive  fact  to  consider  about  him  is  the 
caliber  of  men  whose  love  and  loyalty  he  won,  and  what  they 
accomplished  under  the  motivation  and  enthusiasm  of  their 
testimonies: 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  MAN  AND 


HIS  WORK  $3.00 

By  Preston  Nibley 

BRIGHAM  YOUNG,  THE  COLONIZER  $3.00 

By  Milton  R.  Hunter 

HEBER  C.  KIMBALL  $3.00 

By  Orson  F.  Whitney 

DANIEL  HANMER  WELLS  $2.50 

By  Bryant  S.  Hinckley 

EZRA  T.  BENSON  $3.00 


By  John  Henry  Evans  and  Minnie  Egan  Anderson 
-  ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  — 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 

The  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  held  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Mon- 
day, April  6,  7,  8,  and  9,  1951. 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  the  Church,  having 
passed  away  Wednesday,  April  4,  President  Smith's  funeral  services 
were  held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday,  April  7,  at  2:00  p.m.,  which 
services  are  included  as  a  part  of  this  Conference  report. 

General  sessions  of  the  Conference  were  held  at  10:00  a.m. 
and  2:00  p.m.  Friday  and  Sunday  and  at  10:00  a.m.  Monday.  The 
General  Priesthood  meeting  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
evening,  April  7  ,at  7:00  p.m.,  with  overflow  assemblies  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall. 

The  session  Monday  morning  at  10:00  was  a  solemn  assembly, 
at  which  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  was  reorganized,  with 
David  Oman  McKay  as  President,  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First 
Counselor,  and  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Second  Counselor. 

The  full  services  of  the  General  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrange- 
ment through  KSL  were  broadcast  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KBUH  at  Brigham  City,  and  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at 
Pocatello,  KBIO  in  Burley,  KVMV  at  Twin  Falls,  and  KRXK  at 
Rexburg. 

The  services  of  the  general  sessions  were  also  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds  and  in  Barratt  Hall, 
60  North  Main,  over  a  loud  speaking  system,  and  by  television. 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  Church  of  the  Air  program, 
on  which  Elder  Stephen  L  Richards  was  the  speaker,  was  presented 
in  the  Tabernacle  Sunday  morning,  April  8,  from  9:00  to  9:30. 
A  full  report  of  this  service  is  also  included  in  this  record. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  presided  at  the  general  sessions  of  the  Conference.  He 
conducted  the  Friday  morning,  Sunday  morning,  and  Monday 
morning  services.  Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  conducted  the  services  at  the  Friday  afternoon  and  Sunday 
afternoon  sessions  and  also  of  the  General  Priesthood  meeting. 


2  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church  Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O.  McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards, 
and  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.* 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,** 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  Harold  B. 
Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark  E.  Petersen, 
Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stapley.*** 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G.  Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve:  Marion  G.  Romney, 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young,  and  Alma  Sonne. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine 
R.  Ivins,  Richard  L.  Evans,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  S.  Dilworth  Young, 
Milton  R.  Hunter,  and  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 

The  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 

General  Officers  and  Other  Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and 
A.  William  Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  General  Welfare  Committee,  Church  Welfare 
Program. 

Members  of  the  Board  of  Education,  Commissioner  of  Education, 
Directors  and  Associate  Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  Super- 
visors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  Bishops  of  Wards 
and  their  Counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs,  High  Priests, 
Seventies,  Elders;  General  Stake  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans,  Temple  Square;  Salt 
Lake  City;  George  Q.  Morris,  Eastern  States;  S.  Dilworth  Young, 
New  England;  Waldo  M.  Andersen,  Northern  States;  John  B. 
Hawkes,  North  Central  States;  John  B.  Matheson,  East  Central 
States;  J.  Orval  Ellsworth,  Central  States;  Albert  Choules,  Southern 
States;  David  I.  Stoddard,  California;  Benjamin  L.  Bowring,  Texas- 
Louisiana;  Ray  E.  Dillman,  Western  States;  Thomas  W.  Gardner, 
Northern  California;  James  A.  McMurrin,  Northwestern  States; 
Floyd  G.  Eyre,  Canada;  Glen  G.  Fisher,  Western  Canada;  Lucian  M. 
Meacham,  Jr.,  Mexico;  Lorin  F.  Jones,  Spanish-American;  Golden 
R.  Buchanan,  Southwest  Indian;  Carl  C.  Burton,  Great  Lakes; 
Hilton  A.  Robertson,  Chinese. 


*The  First  Presidency  was  reorganized  at  the  concluding  session  of  this  Con- 
ference, with  President  David  O.  McKay  as  President,  Stephen  L  Richards 
as  First  Counselor  and  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor. 
"Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  was  sustained  as  President  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 
***The  vacancy  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  was  not  filled  at  this  Conference. 


FIRST  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning, 
April  6,  at  10  o'clock,  with  President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

This  is  the  opening  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

As  you  all  know,  through  general  announcement  already  given, 
last  Wednesday,  April  4,  at  7:27  p.m.,  there  came  to  a  close,  on  his 
eighty-first  birthday,  the  earthly  career  of  our  beloved  leader,  Presi- 
den  George  Albert  Smith.  A  few  moments  after  his  heartbeat  stopped 
one  of  his  daughters — I  am  not  clear  this  morning  whether  it  was 
Emily  or  Edith — said,  with  aching  heart,  "This  is  the  only  way 
father  could  attend  conference."  Though  his  chair  is  vacant  this 
morning  let  us  hope  that  the  influence  of  his  Christ-like  character 
will  pervade  every  heart  and  his  high  ideals  be  an  inspiration  to  us 
all.  Truly  he  was  a  noble  soul,  happiest  when  he  was  making  others 
happy.  In  his  daily  life  he  strove  sincerely  to  apply  the  teachings  of 
Jesus  to  "love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thjr 
mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength  .  .  .  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 

President  Smith's  passing  leaves  the  Quorum  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency disorganized,  and  the  presiding  authority  of  the  Church  now 
rests  with  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  At  a  meeting  this 
morning  at  nine  o'clock  this  Council  requested  that  the  counselors 
to  President  Smith  conduct  the  exercises  of  this  General  Conference. 

President  Clark,  will  you  please  come  forward  and  take  your 
place? 

(Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  then  took  a  seat  by  President 
McKay  on  the  upper  stand.) 

All  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  are  in  attendance. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  is  the  clerk  of  the  conference. 

These  services,  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  conference,  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  the 
loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

This  service  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  conference  will  be 
broadcast  over  station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  following  stations: 

In  Utah:  KSUB  at  Cedar  City,  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KJAM  at 
Vernal,  KBUH,  Brigham  City,  and  KVNU  at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KGEM  at  Boise,  KID  at  Idaho  Falls,  KEYY  at  Poca- 
tcllo.  KBIO  at  Burley,  KVMV  at  Twin  Falls,  and  KRXK  at  Rexburg. 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

We  are  grateful  to  the  stations  named  for  their  cooperation  in 
broadcasting  these  proceedings  and  we  thank  them  for  their  services 
which  will  continue  throughout  the  conference.  In  the  interest  of 
time,  however,  we  shall  not  repeat  this  announcement  at  every 
session. 

All  general  sessions  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  tele- 
vision station,  channel  5. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's  session  will  be  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  with  Elders  Newell 
Weight  and  Crawford  Gates  conducting  and  with  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  morning  services  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  combined  choruses  singing:  "Thanks  Be  To  God,"  con- 
ducted by  Elder  Newell  Weight. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Jared  J.  Trejo 
of  the  Southern  Arizona  Stake. 


The  University  combined  choruses  sang:  "Thanks  Be  To  God." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Jared  J.  Trejo  of  the 
Southern  Arizona  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  then  sang: 
"Awake,  Ye  Saints  of  God,  Awake." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  read  the  fol- 
lowing reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,  WARD,  AND  BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS 
SINCE  OCTOBER  CONFERENCE,  1950 

Mission  Changes  and  New  Presidents  Appointed: 

Chinese  Mission  transferred  to  San  Francisco,  California. 

Ernest  Nelson  appointed  president  of  Hawaii  Mission  to  suc- 
ceed Edward  L.  Clissold. 

J.  Howard  Maughan  appointed  president  of  New  England  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  S.  Dilworth  Young. 

James  A.  McMurrin  appointed  president  of  Northwestern  States 
Mission  to  succeed  Joel  Richards. 

Earl  S.  Paul  appointed  president  of  Samoan  Mission  to  succeed 
Golden  H.  Hale. 

Golden  R.  Buchanan  appointed  president  of  Southwest  Indian 
Mission  to  succeed  S.  Eugene  Flake. 

New  Stakes  Organized: 

Santa  Rosa  Stake  organized  January  7,  1951,  from  Northern 
California  Mission  and  Berkeley  Stake. 

Murray  Stake  organized  by  division  of  Cottonwood  Stake,  Feb- 
ruary 11,  1951. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  5 

Wilford  Stake  organized  February  11,  1951,  by  division  of  East 
Mill  Creek  Stake. 

Santa  Barbara  Stake  organized  February  18,  1951,  from  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Stake  Presidents  Chosen: 

L.  Burdett  Pugmire,  president  of  Bear  Lake  Stake  to  succeed 
E.  Woodruff  Stucki. 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen,  president  of  East  Cache  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed J.  Howard  Maughan. 

Wm.  Howard  Allen,  president  of  Granite  Stake  to  succeed 
Carl  W.  Buehner. 

Harry  E.  McClure,  president  of  Gridley  Stake  to  succeed  John 
C.  Todd. 

Olin  H.  Ririe,  president  of  Mount  Ogden  Stake  to  succeed  Earl 
S.  Paul. 

George  H.  Mortimer,  president  of  New  York  Stake  to  succeed 
Wm.  F.  Edwards. 

David  B.  Haight,  president  of  Palo  Alto  Stake  to  succeed  Wen- 
dell B.  Christenson. 

Charles  B.  Richmond,  president  of  Park  Stake  to  succeed  J. 
Percy  Goddard. 

David  E.  Heywood,  president  of  Phoenix  Stake  to  succeed  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley. 

Antone  K.  Romney,  president  of  Provo  Stake  to  succeed  Charles 
E,  Rowan,  Jr. 

Arthur  J.  Godfrey,  president  of  new  Santa  Barbara  Stake. 
John  LaRoy  Murdock,  president  of  new  Santa  Rosa  Stake. 
George  Z.  Aposhian,  president  of  new  Wilford  Stake. 
Oral  J.  Wilkinson,  president  of  new  Murray  Stake. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Aberdeen  Second  Ward,  American  Falls  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Aberdeen  Ward. 

Blackfoot  Fifth  Ward,  Blackfoot  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Blackfoot  Third  Ward. 

Wellington  Second  Ward,  Carbon  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Wellington  Ward. 

Cedar  Sixth  Ward,  Cedar  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Cedar 
Third  and  Fourth  Wards. 

Long  Beach  Fifth  Ward,  East  Long  Beach  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Long  Beach  Third  Ward. 

Norwalk  Ward,  East  Long  Beach  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Bellflower  and  Whittier  Wards. 

Ridgedale  Ward,  Grant  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Lorraine 
Ward. 

Mesa  Ninth  Ward,  Mesa  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Mesa 
Seventh  Ward. 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

Valley  Center  Second  Ward,  Mill  Creek  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Valley  Center  First  Ward. 

Layton  Second  Ward,  Mt.  Graham  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Layton  Ward. 

Granger  Third  Ward,  North  Jordan  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Granger  First  Ward,  with  part  of  Granger  Second  Ward. 

Taylorsville  Second  Ward,  North  Jordan  Stake,  formed  by  a 
division  of  Taylorsville  Ward. 

Garfield  Second  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Garfield  Ward. 

Timp  View  Ward,  Orem  Stake,  forwed  by  a  division  of  Wind- 
sor Ward. 

Parowan  Second  Ward,  Parowan  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Parowan  East  and  West  Wards, 

Thirty-Fifth  Ward,  Pioneer  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Thirty-Second  Ward. 

Tahoe  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Home- 
stead Ward. 

Hemet  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
California  Mission. 

Farmington  Second  Ward,  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  division  of 
Farmington  Ward. 

Ojai  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the  California 
Mission. 

Oxnard  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the  California 
Mission. 

Santa  Barbara  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the 
California  Mission. 

Santa  Paula  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

San  Luis  Obispo  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the 
California  Mission. 

Santa  Maria  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Ventura  Ward,  Santa  Barbara  Stake,  formerly  of  the  California 
Mission. 

Santa  Rosa  Ward,  Santa  Rosa  Stake,  formerly  of  the  California 
Mission. 

Seattle  Fifth  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Seattle 
Third  Ward. 

Seattle  Sixth  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  organized  from  White  Center 
Branch. 

Richfield  Fifth  Ward,  Sevier  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Richfield  Second  Ward. 

Richfield  Sixth  Ward,  Sevier  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Richfield  Third  Ward. 

Crest  View  Ward,  Sharon  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  Hill 
Crest  Ward. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS  7 

Bountiful  Sixth  Ward,  South  Davis  Stake,  formed  by  a  division 
of  Bountiful  First  Ward. 

Tooele  Eighth  Ward,  Tooele  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Tooele  Fifth  Ward. 

Tooele  Ninth  Ward,  Tooele  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of 
Tooele  Fifth  Ward. 

Ward  Name  Changed 

Holladay  Third  Ward,  Cottonwood  Stake,  formerly  Mt.  Olym- 
pus Ward. 

Holladay  Fourth  Ward,  Cottonwood  Stake,  formerly  Olympus 
South  Ward. 

Long  Beach  Third  Ward,  East  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Park 
View  Ward. 

Compton  First  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Compton 
Ward. 

Compton  Second  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Compton 
Center  Ward. 

Long  Beach  First  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Long 
Beach  Ward. 

Long  Beach  Second  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  North 
Long  Beach  Ward. 

Long  Beach  Fourth  Ward,  Lonq  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Virqinia 
Ward. 

Murray  Sixth  Ward,  Murray  Stake,  formerly  South  Grant 
Ward. 

Parowan  First  Ward,  Parowan  Stake,  formerly  Parowan  East 
Ward. 

Parowan  Third  Ward,  Parowan  Stake,  formerly  Parowan  West 
Ward. 

Sacramento  First  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Sacra- 
mento Ward. 

Sacramento  Second  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Sutter 
Ward. 

Sacramento  Third  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Home- 
stead Ward. 

Sacramento  Fourth  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Tahoe 
Ward. 

Lajara  Ward,  San  Luis  Stake,  formerly  Richfield  Ward. 
Imbler-Elgin  Ward,  Union  Stake,  formerly  Imbler  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Dragerton  Ward,  Carbon  Stake,  formerly  Dragerton  Branch. 
Fort  Collins  Ward,  Denver  Stake,  formerly  Fort  Collins  Branch. 
Lakewood  Ward,  East  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Lakewood 
Branch. 

Woodland  Ward,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  Woodland 
Branch. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

Gallup  Ward,  St.  Johns  Stake,  formerly  Gallup  Branch. 
San  Rafael  Ward,  San  Francisco  Stake,  formerly  San  Rafael 
Branch. 

Oakdale  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake,  formerly  Oakdale  Branch. 

Independent  Branches  Organized: 

Spanish-American  Branch,  Denver  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
the  Spanish- American  Mission. 

Ditman  Branch,  East  Los  Angeles  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
the  Spanish-American  Mission. 

Ruby  Valley  Branch,  Humboldt  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Wells 
Ward. 

Superstition  Mountain  Branch,  Maricopa  Stake,  formerly  part 
of  Mesa  Tenth  Ward  of  Maricopa  Stake  and  Mesa  Seventh  Ward 
of  Mesa  Stake. 

Spanish-American  Branch,  Phoenix  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in 
the  Spanish-American  Mission. 

Spanish  Branch,  Sacramento  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
Spanish-American  Mission. 

Elsinor  Branch,  San  Bernardino  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
California  Mission. 

Spanish-American  Branch,  San  Diego  Stake,  formerly  a  branch 
in  the  Spanish-American  Mission. 

Lakeport  Branch,  Santa  Rosa  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
Northern  California  Mission. 

Petaluma  Branch,  Santa  Rosa  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
Northern  California  Mission. 

Sebastapol  Branch,  Santa  Rosa  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
Northern  California  Mission. 

Willits  Branch,  Santa  Rosa  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  the 
Northern  California  Mission. 

McNary  Branch,  Snowflake  Stake,  formed  by  a  division  of  the 
Lakeside  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Discontinued: 

Athol  Branch.  Spokane  Stake,  disorganized,  membership  trans- 
ferred to  "other  branches." 

Bay  Ridge  Branch,  New  York  Stake,  disorganized,  membership 
transferred  to  Brooklyn  Branch. 

Rockport  Branch,  Summit  Stake,  disorganized,  membership 
transferred  to  Wanship  Ward. 

Stake  Names  Changed: 

Cottonwood  Stake,  formerly  Big  Cottonwood  Stake. 
Mill  Creek  Stake,  formerly  Cottonwood  Stake. 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  9 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  President  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Mary  L.  Morgan,  widow  of  John  Morgan,  former  member  of 
the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy. 

STATISTICAL  REPORT— 1950 


Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  December  31,  1950   180 

Number  of  Wards   1,396 

Number  of  Independent  Branches   145 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches   1,541 

Number  of  Missions....,   43 

Church  Membership: 

Stakes   898,478 

Missions   212,836 

Total  Membership   1,111,314 

Church  Growth: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   37,444 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   22,808 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions   14,700 

Social  Statistics: 

Birth  rate  per  thousand   37.34 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand   9.46 

Death  rate  per  thousand    5.95 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church  5,313 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes....  4,527 

Total  missionaries — December  31,  1950   9,840 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the 

mission  home  in  1950   3,014 


The  congregational  singing  of  the  conference  was  directed  by 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  and  Richard  P.  Condie, 
Assistant  Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attendance  at  the  Sun- 
day sessions  and  presented  choral  numbers  at  those  meetings.  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  directed  the  singing  of  the  Choir. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Dag 

The  Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  furnished 
musical  numbers  at  the  Friday  morning  and  afternoon  sessions.  The 
singing  of  the  combined  choruses  was  conducted  by  Elders  Newell 
Weight,  Crawford  Gates,  and  Clawson  Cannon. 

The  Delta  Phi  (Returned  Missionaries)  chorus  from  the  Brig- 
hom  Young  University,  Elder  Ardean  Watts,  conductor,  furnished 
musical  numbers  for  the  General  Priesthood  meeting  Saturday 
evening. 

The  singing  Monday  morning,  at  the  Solemn  Assembly,  was 
entirely  by  the  congregation,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

The  music  and  singing  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  organ  broad- 
cast Sunday  morning,  from  9:00  to  9:30,  as  also  that  of  the  Church 
of  the  Air  broadcast,  from  8:30  to  9:00,  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ,  and  "The  Spoken 
Word"  was  by  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Roy  M.  Darley. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

You  brethren  and  sisters  who  are  here  will  understand  that 
I  am  repeating  these  announcements  for  the  benefit  of  the  thousands 
who  are  listening  over  the  radio. 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will 
now  present  the  financial  statement  for  the  Church  for  the  year  1950 
and  a  summarized  report  of  the  Welfare  Program  of  the  Church. 

THE  ANNUAL  CHURCH  FINANCIAL  REPORT  FOR  THE 

YEAR  1950 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  read  the  following  report: 

We  will  now  give  a  summary  of  the  Church  financial  report 
for  the  year  1950.  The  report  itself  will  be  published  in  full  in  the 
Deseret  News. 

The  report  is  in  the  usual  form.  The  material  is  given  under 
the  usual  headings  of  expenditures  heretofore  used  in  such  reports, 
and  data  are  shown  under  the  captions:  Original  Budget,  Additions 
to  Budget,  Budget  Funds  Spent,  and  Budget  Funds  Not  Spent. 

A  word  may  be  said  about  the  "Additions  to  Budget."  It  will 
be  observed  that  in  certain  cases,  where  additions  to  the  budget  were 
made,  more  budget  funds  remain  unspent  than  the  amount  of  addi- 
tions made  to  the  budget  in  such  cases.  That  is,  the  original  budget 
for  the  general  group  was  more  without  additions  than  the  budget 
amounts  spent  for  that  general  group,  leaving  an  unspent  balance 
of  the  original  budget. 


ELDER  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


11 


This  comes  about  from  the  following  situation.  It  is  a  principle 
of  Church  expenditures  that  allocations  of  Church  funds  may  not 
be  shifted  from  one  item  to  another.  The  original  allocation  must 
stand  and  any  deficiency  of  funds  as  to  any  item  must  be  covered 
by  an  additional  allocation  and  not  by  a  shifting  of  funds  to  that 
account  from  an  allocation  made  to  some  other  item  of  expenditure. 
It  not  infrequently  happens  that  where  one  particular  class  or  general 
category  of  expenditure  covers  several  accounts,  one  account  may 
be  exhausted  and  another  account  have  a  surplus.  In  such  cases, 
an  additional  allocation  of  funds  is  made  to  the  exhausted  account, 
instead  of  transfering  funds  from  some  other  account  to  the  ex- 
hausted account.  To  meet  such  situations  there  was  provided  in 
the  budget  a  so-called  "Unallocated  Reserve  for  Contingencies," 
from  which  these  additional  allocations  to  specific  accounts  could 
be  made  and  to  which,  where  needed,  additional  funds  could  be 
allocated. 

The  additional  funds  shown  in  the  report  are  the  net  additions 
made  as  to  the  particular  groups  of  expenditure  affected. 

The  figures  given  will  cover  amounts  disbursed  from  the  Church 
general  funds  unless  otherwise  stated.  Other  figures  will  be  added 
later  in  the  report  and  so  identified. 

The  original  budget,  plus  additions,  for  the  year  1950,  came  to 
$23,105,358.  The  expenditures  from  this  fund  came  to  $19,949,599, 
which  was  $224,034  more  than  was  spent  in  1949.  The  unexpended 
balance  of  the  budget  for  1950  was  $3,155,759,  but  a  million  and  a 
half  of  this  amount  is  the  sum  regularly  allocated  to  the  schools  as 
their  budget  for  the  first  half  of  the  calendar  year  1951. 

Taking  the  individual  expenditure  groups, — the  following  ap- 
pears: 

The  administrative  expenses  of  the  office  of  the  Corporation  of 
the  President  came  to  $449,205  in  1950  against  $380,935  for  1949, 
an  increase  for  1950  of  $68,270.  The  expenditures  of  the  Presiding 
Bishop's  office  for  1950  was  $458,364. 

These  budgets  of  the  two  offices, — the  office  of  the  Corporation 
of  the  President  and  the  office  of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presiding 
Bishop,  to  which  may  be  added  some  $45,305  for  miscellaneous  ad- 
ministrative expenses, — are  more  than  covered  by  the  non-tithing 
income  of  the  Church. 

The  amounts  paid  to  the  stakes  and  wards  in  1950  came  to 
$7,431,223,  as  compared  with  $7,529,460  for  1949,— or  $98,237  less 
in  1950  than  in  1949.  There  were  1541  wards  and  180  stakes  at  the 
close  of  1950,  and  1,172  stake,  ward,  and  branch  buildings  to  be 
maintained.  During  the  year,  259  buildings  were  under  construction 
in  the  stakes  and  wards,  and  8  buildings  were  purchased  for  use  as 
meeting  houses,  of  which  number  50  were  dedicated. 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  missions  of  the 
Church,  including  return  fares  of  missionaries,  free  literature,  radio 
and  publicity  expense,  and  the  building  program  of  the  various  mis- 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Dag 

sions,  $3,822,189  was  spent  in  1950,  against  $4,212,138,  for  1949,  a 
decrease  for  1950  over  1949  of  $389,949.  During  the  year,  1 13  build- 
ings were  under  construction  in  the  missions,  and  34  other  buildings 
were  purchased  for  meeting  places,  and  missionary  headquarters. 
Of  these  147  buildings,  some  60  were  dedicated. 

For  the  operating  expenses  of  the  8  temples  of  the  Church, 
including  repairs,  construction  work,  and  maintenance,  $696,862  was 
spent  in  1950  and  $589,331  in  1949,  or  an  increase  in  1950  of 
$107,531. 

From  the  Church  general  funds  there  was  expended  for  Church 
Welfare  in  1950,  $1,608,454  and  in  1949,  $1,714,280,— a  decrease 
for  1950  of  $105,826. 

For  general  buildings  and  grounds  at  Church  headquarters,  in- 
cluding the  Tabernacle  and  Assembly  Hall,  the  buildings  on  Temple 
Block  and  on  the  block  on  which  is  located  the  Administration  Build- 
ing, including  $635,834  granted  to  hospitals  for  new  construction 
and  improvements,  $1,184,160  was  expended  for  1950  against 
$702,219  for  1949,  an  increase  for  1950  of  $481,941. 

For  schools  and  educational  activities,  including  the  Brigham 
Young  University,  Ricks  College,  Juarez  Stake  Schools,  1 7  institutes 
and  139  seminaries,  the  McCune  School  of  Music,  the  Blanding 
Indian  School,  including  the  salaries  of  administrative  officers  and 
teachers,  as  well  as  funds  for  the  erection  and  repair  of  buildings, 
and  for  purchase  of  building  sites,  there  was  expended  during  the 
calendar  year  1950,  $3,272,403  from  Church  general  funds.  To  this 
figure  should  be  added  for  1950,  expenditures  of  $2,432,820  of  funds 
collected  by  the  schools  for  tuition  and  other  services,  or  a  total  of 
$5,705,223  spent  for  Church  education,  as  against  $3,086,136  for 
the  calendar  year  1949.  There  were  enrolled  in  the  Brigham  Young 
University,  the  Ricks  College,  the  L.D.S.  Business  College,  and  the 
Juarez  Stake  Academy,  for  the  school  year  1949-1950,  some  11,437 
students;  31,488  others  received  religious  training  and  activity  in 
the  institutes  and  seminaries. 

For  the  Genealogical  Society  there  was  expended  the  amount 
of  $743,145  in  1950,  as  compared  with  $750,505  in  1949,  a  decrease 
of  $7,360  for  1950.  Included  in  these  expenditures,  in  addition  to 
sums  for  research  and  record-keeping  work,  are  sums  spent  for 
microfilm  records  in  6  of  our  States  and  in  10  foreign  countries,  the 
total  microfilm  record  so  obtained  having  an  equivalency  of  57,705 
volumes  of  approximately  385  pages  per  volume. 

Other  items  of  expense  from  the  general  Church  funds  will  be 
found  in  the  printed  report,  but  call  for  no  special  comment  here. 

But  in  addition  to  the  foregoing  expenditures  from  the  tithes 
and  other  income,  there  has  come  from  the  people  on  various 
accounts  and  been  spent  for  Church  purposes,  buildings,  and  build- 
ing maintenance,  maintenance  of  missions,  welfare,  auxiliaries,  hos- 
pitalization, and  educational  purposes  (already  noted),  a  little  more 


ELDER  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


13 


than  three  fourths  as  much  as  spent  from  the  general  Church  funds, 
or  the  sum  of  $15,130,536.  This  is  $930,141  more  than  was  similarly 
expended  in  1949. 

The  total  expenditure  of  both  kinds  for  1950  was  $35,080,135. 
To  this  could  properly  be  added,  as  coming  from  the  people,  some 
$3,000,000  which  went  from  parents  and  others  to  maintain  the 
missionary  force  in  the  field.  For  1949,  the  total  expenditure  was 
$33,925,960,  or  an  increase  for  1950  of  $1,154,175. 

The  total  number  of  people  (wards  and  stakes  and  missions) 
paying  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions  in  1950,  is  given 
as  215,052.  The  total  amount  of  fast  offerings  and  welfare  con- 
tributions was  $2,581,003,  in  1950,  and  $2,153,434  in  1949,  an  increase 
of  $427,569  for  1950.  The  increase  came  from  both  wards  and  stakes 
and  the  missions. 

The  total  cash  expenditures  for  the  Welfare  Program  for  the 
year  1950,  was  $3,399,951,  all  of  which  is  included  in  the  above 
grand  total  of  the  budget  and  other  cash  expenditures. 

From  1938  to  the  end  of  1950  more  than  2,721  families  have 
been  helped  to  become  self-supporting,  and  17,829  families  have 
been  assisted  in  other  ways.  During  this  same  period  the  Deseret 
Industries  has  provided  continuous  work  for  hundreds  of  handi- 
capped and  aged  persons.  During  the  year  1950  they  had  an 
average  of  235  persons  working  in  their  plants.  The  Deseret  Cloth- 
ing Factory,  another  branch  of  the  Welfare  Plan,  has  provided  con- 
tinuous employment  for  from  30  to  60  individuals,  many  of  whom 
were  widows  and  elderly  persons. 

During  the  year  1950,  90,800  man  days  of  work  were  donated 
in  the  production  of  the  budget  and  10,500  man  days  of  work  were 
donated  in  the  construction  of  Bishops'  storehouses  and  other  build- 
ings for  the  operation  of  Welfare  Plan.  In  addition  to  these,  94 
construction  and  remodeling  projects  were  completed  by  the  breth- 
ren for  the  benefit  of  less  fortunate  members. 

Obedient  to  the  command  of  the  Lord  that  men  should  be  self- 
supporting,  looking  to  the  Church  for  necessary  help,  3,509  persons 
have,  during  the  past  eight  years  relinquished  their  position  on  gov- 
ernment relief  rolls.  Of  this  number,  1,600  have  been  rehabilitated 
and  are  receiving  no  aid  from  the  Church  nor,  so  far  as  known, 
from  any  other  gratuitous  source;  1,221  are  yet  receiving  part  of  their 
support  from  the  Church;  and  688  are  receiving  all  their  needs  from 
the  Church. 

During  1950,  4,747  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling 
resulting  in  the  solution  of  their  employment  problems,  and  5,712 
other  persons  were  placed  in  remunerative  employment.  Reported 
unemployment  has  decreased  29%  during  the  year. 

Our  expenditures  are  heavy,  our  activities  are  many,  some  of 
them  of  considerable  size,  but  we  are  striving  to  expend  Church 
funds  with  care,  without  waste,  and  so  far  as  possible  with  the  least 
amount  of  extravagance. 


14 

Friday.  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


mo\m 
ci  in 
incCin 
O^fin 

cloCcc) 
CM  « 

iff 


3  a  S 


41   <*)  _ 


_  cj 

a  «  ft 

cy 

10  c  n 

go  « 

"O.J3  3 


O 

s 

od 


in 

o 
cs 
o\ 


in 
in 


«5£ 


.S  & 
.S>"2 


c  p 


cj 


CJ 


■go 

ex 


CJ 


cj 


<A 

2 
W 
0i 
X 

w 

u 
> 

a-?  a 

CD  u-t  ™ 

s «  » 


8  o 

ffi  w 

n  " 
°  w 
C 

^  S 
O  a, 

Si" 

w  cj  .3 
^  ^  > 

4J  -  -  *-! 
J3 


w 

"B.S 

a  a 


10 


2 

Q 
< 


H  OIU 

_  ra  o  ID 

«M  O 
«-«_  J& 

° 

SB 
O 


s 

CO 
oo 
m 


in 


IS  ct>  i 
cos 

la.  s 

ST  ° 
..a  | 

S  0.5 
_  u  o  .a 

a*s  raa 

OJ  w  G  u 
w  s  ^  ^ 

xdt  a 

CU  o>  to 

<U  CJ 

•5  S-S  0 
£.  « 
0  o  ^  - 

3  |  8  £ 

s  sa 


a, 


in 


in 

O 

8 

00 

o\ 

CO 

CO 

c-i 

IO 

m 

3  S 

S  "3 

« 

(ij  Co 

>  a 


ID 

10 


00 


CO 

00 

00 


in 

in 

10 

9" 


J3 


3  w 

a  ts 
a  'a 


-a 

o 

2  «  o 
•£  H 

4J   w  3 

*2  *3  to 


so 


s-js  ffa 

t,  >  p.  .2 
o  o  co  i>  2 


a 
S 

eg  4J 


CO  O 

o  u 

CO  u 
CO 
O  3 


a 

Si  8 


i^irst  Dan 


O 
I 


cn 


10 


m 
co 

00 


« 2  s 
III 

M   03-0  3 

3  ^3  01  J5 
10  u  S  .3  TJ  l7  2i 

-.•gSj^Scoa 

w  CO  "  _ 

•a  >>a« 

3    03  CJ  5U 

3 

i  ..|oS  § 

m^  o.  2  a 
o 


a  CO  otjA! 
«j  S  °  o  « 

g  rf  5  ■  " 

a  ra  o 
IS  »  JJS 

w<N.2 
J-i     '  CO 


CD 


o"3  ' 

cj  3 
3  <°, 


a  ™  0 


^  ^3  Co 


3d 


°a  S  3 -2  &3 


S3 

13  T 
co  d 

o 

-3  3  oi 


"  T3  CO 
w  .3  ^=3 

3    .  3  w 

O,  cj  3 

<u  u  o 

l  3  3  w 

—  CO  CO  CJ 

h  c-  h 


22 

cj  73  : 
3 

03 

cj  73  ■ 
u  C 

5E  5 


a; 


[L,      J3  D,  O  ? 


9 

8£- 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  15 


C3*\  ' 

OO  — ' 


CN 
<N 

OO 

to 


CN 

OO 


i 


O 
lO 


ID 
ON 

s 


co 


s 


c<l 
in 


CO 


o 
in 
o> 


M  oi  aj  - — --±3  2i 

3  w  V 

"3  S-S  c  c-2 


a 

T3"o 

"S  a  «  si  ot 


0T3 


in 


J5J!30U6. 
•SC  ^cuJJ-KcOmS 

a  3 


..TJ  x  a  a 

u  rt  o 


•5  ftj 


>  § 


i>  73  -a 


c  S  -a 

f\    tn  W 


Sec*-" 


o  c. 


si 

■— i  ~~  u  n  n  o 
*j      a  -s  -8,  T1  4> 

>  o  _  „      a  M  a  .„ ,_ 

g     u      P  3*33  H  3  -g  10  X 


h  «>>? 


S  j  3 
3,  u  *< 


□  «J3 


i  "S  5  «  —  «  10 


si 

.gu||  §  |  .j-g-a. 

CO       §"§  u  S  CO  «  ra  H= 
«  C0J3      c  3  — 


u  a, 
3  S 

MH 


UH  S3 

o  co 
B 
w  £> 

£  a 
II 

UJ  w 

00  si 

■5.2  I 

w 

S  S  r? 

•S  t3  3 
•5  3  ° 

CO  *H 


o  o  .9 


u  c  o  »U 

—  10  u  . 


O  l-TJ 
CO  01 


_g  C  «  m  n 
S3  .>-*X 


y]  <u 

w  U  M  jj  <^ 

«  3  S  a -a 

S  2  <u  3  g  o  3 

"J  O  3  «J3 


4-1    ri         *i  r2    <U  -4-* 

c  *S       w  JO  ja  ffl 

o ^  on 
5  S  9     o  M  o 
o 


^  Q.  u 
«  X  3 
03-3  cu"- 

,S   W  CJ  *j 

3  .2  2  T3  S  S 

p.?  I  §  5.2- 

_g  «;  S  s  si  .a  a 


a 
o 

w 


S^3—  o  co 

TO  a  CO  „  g 

«  S  a  Si! 

el  §H  a 

a  .s  «  8 
S  a 

•a  us  cj  o 

i=  co  y  — 

.a  S3  >>o. 

a -s  S 

«  ■'3- 


o  •* 


a  .5  Ti  co  ™ 
co  -g  co  3  n<  js 

H      4j  '3  tj  w  OO  (U 

fi  Jjj  win  a 

pa   a  yH|<^o 


oh '3      -a    o^cocS'-S^      co    OJ3  TO-g  g  » 


16 

Friday.  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


~      «  8  o 

6 


First  Dag 


CI 
CO 
m 


in" 
in 


cn  ^  J -a 
<n  g-  £-2 


in 

CN 


in 
i — i 


no 
ot 

CM 


on 

ON 

m 

ON 
ON 

On 


ON 

m 

On 
cn 
CO 


o 

ON 


NO 
CO 
CO 

co 


ON 

s* 

OJ 
■—I 


no 
co 


o 
m 
on 
cs 


On 

<2 

NO 

in 

CO 
OO 


ON  —  <D  V  OJ 
r*  T-t  ftj  c»  1 

3  8«*|  go 

[3*2  •-  W 

H  -£  _        W  CO 

-2  5  5  °_e  7 
io      2  -  **  u 

u  o     u  to 
o 


,  -a  EE 


m  u  a  J3  £ 

a™  3    .a  o 

(-i  l-n^-1 


C 
■^2  41 

co  S3 
^  o 


-  a  *  a 

3.3  O-q 

T*  w  ? 

«  a  8  § 

g  ai- 


58  » 

0  .9  a 

01  —  *> 

•S  -  3 
3  Si  s 
o  Sg 

w|  a 

o  mo 

HI 

•-  4> 

il?. 

^2  8 
•a  .-a 
C  co  4) 


a 


y  J  3 


o 
u 

1  £ 


12- 

8  2 

.Sao 

a  0  a 
a  a  s 

u  c 
O  B"S 


5  wJi  1  B 

~TJ  B  O 
X    U    dJ    W  >-i 

u  o  **  a  u 


o 

s 
s 
o 


Dl  x 

v  2 

O  Cu 
u_  p. 

^  c3 


C3       B  ON 
•-•H2t3 


o  -a 


~  C^c<l 

■ass 


r.    T*.  '->-<  ft) 


a 

s  2 


cn  <u  b 
o  5  »  u 


§  a  .s 

S  O 


o 


ST]  flJ 

■a  T3  -s  ~£  *■ 


O  P 


8  $1  S 'as  Jj. 


5  o  -  .,  co  >  <u 


IS 


■S  4j  .S  C0« 


o  n  3 


.S"J3 

4-;  U 

3m-.  tj 

J3  O  3 

3  4) 
0  w 

u  a  a 


nS  S 


o 

I — I 

3 

a 


4)  ><  T3 
D.    S  4) 

w 


-  -a 

(  G 

CO 


•a  T3 
S  c 

CO  — 


13 

g 
3 


0 


w  2  ti  h  ~ 


0 


FINANCIAL  REPORT  17 


Part  II— EXPENDITURES  OTHER  THAN  FROM  CHURCH  GENERAL 
FUNDS  1950 

The  expenditures  budgeted  from  Church  General  Funds  and  paid  principally 


from  the  tithes  are  detailed  above.  The  following  expenditures  were  made  from 
further  contributions  by  members  of  the  Church: 

Paid  for  stake,  ward,  and  mission  building  purposes   $  6,116,856 

Expended  for  stake,  ward,  and  mission  maintenance  purposes;  ex- 
penses of  auxiliary  organizations  and  for  recreation   3,553,192 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings    953,484 

Expended  from  welfare  contributions   1,445,906 

Assistance  rendered  missionaries..   297,690 

Expended  from  dues  of  general  boards;  children's  contributions  to  the 

Primary  Hospital,  and  donations  to  temples   _   283,007 

Expended  by  educational  institutions  in  addition  to  amount  listed 
under  budget  expenditures,  from  funds  derived  from  tuitions  and 

other  sources   _   2,432,820 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick,  in  addition  to 

the  amount  paid  from  the  tithes  and  included  in  Part  I   —  47,581 

Total  of  Part  II  (Expended  other  than  from  tithes  and  other 

general  funds  of  the  Church)    15,130,536 

Total  Budget  cash  expenditures  from  Church  general  funds,  brought 

forward  from  above.   (Part  I)    19,949,599 

Total  Cash  Expenditures  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1950....  $35,080,135 


Part  III— THE  CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM— 1950 
Fast  Offering  Data 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings  and 


welfare  contributions; 

In  the  wards    180,848 

In  the  missions    34,204 

Total    215,052 


Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions: 
In  the  wards 

Fast  offerings    $  991,419 

Welfare  contributions    1,465,410 

In  the  missions 

Fast  offerings    $  124,174 

Total  Fast  Offerings  and  Welfare  Contributions   $2,581,003 


Percent  of  Church  membership  who  paid  fast  offerings    20.3% 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards    $1.17 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  missions  58 

Average  fast  offerings  per  capita  in  wards  and  missions  _   1.06 

Average  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions  per  capita  in  wards    2.91 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Dag 

Welfare  Program  Cash  Expenditures,  All  Included  in  Figures  Given  Above 
But  Segregated  Here 

Expended  from  ward  and  mission  fast  offerings  and  welfare  contri- 
butions for  the  care  of  the  needy  consisting  of  food,  clothing,  rents, 
light,  heat,  hospitalization,  burials,  etc.,  and  for  the  purchase  of 
commodities  for  storehouses   _   $2,399,390 

Disbursed  by  the  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  for  the  operating 
costs  of  storehouses  and  for  the  overhead  expenses  of  the  General 
Committee   „   376,505 

Disbursed  by  the  Corporations  of  the  President  and  Presiding  Bishop 
for  direct  assistance  and  for  contributions  to  civic  and  educational 
institutions   _  _   576,475 

Expended  by  the  hospitals  for  the  care  of  the  sick   47,581 

Total  Relief  Cash  Expenditures  for  the  year  1950,  all  included  in  above 

grand  total  of  budget  and  other  cash  expenditures    $3,399,951 

Welfare  Report 

The  General  Church  Welfare  Committee  makes  the  following  further  re- 
port, indicating  the  production  and  distribution  of  bishops'  storehouse  commodi- 
ties during  the  year  1950: 

Production  and  Distribution  of  Commodities 
for  Bishops'  Storehouses 

Production  during  the  year  1950  was  5%  lower  than  in  1949.  The  decrease 
was  caused  by  the  loss  of  the  fruit  crop.  Storehouse  commodities  distributed  in- 
creased 7%  over  1949. 

Assistance  Rendered 

There  have  been  from  17,913  to  55,460  persons  assisted  through  the  Bishops' 
Storehouse  Program  each  year  since  1938.  In  1950  there  were  39,537  persons 
so  assisted  in  the  United  States  and  Canada.  This  is  an  increase  over  1949  of 
1,257  persons. 

From  1938  to  the  end  of  1950  more  than  2,721  families  have  been  helped 
to  become  self-supporting  and  17,829  families  have  been  assisted  in  other  ways. 
During  this  same  period  the  Deseret  Industries  has  provided  continuous  work 
for  hundreds  of  handicapped  and  aged  persons.  During  the  year  1950  they  had 
an  average  of  235  persons  working  in  their  plants.  The  Deseret  Clothing  Factory 
another  branch  of  the  Welfare  Plan,  has  provided  continuous  employment  for 
from  30  to  60  individuals,  many  of  whom  were  widows  and  elderly  persons. 

Contributed  Work  and  Construction  Projects 

During  the  year  1950,  90,800  man  days  of  work  were  donated  in  the  produc- 
tion of  the  budget  and  10,500  man  days  of  work  were  donated  in  the  construction 
of  Bishops'  Storehouses  and  other  buildings  for  the  operation  of  the  Welfare 
Plan.  In  addition  to  these,  94  construction  and  remodeling  projects  were  com- 
pleted by  the  brethren  for  the  benefit  of  less  fortunate  members. 

Persons  Relinquishing  Government  Relief 

Obedient  to  the  command  of  the  Lord  that  men  should  be  self-supporting, 
looking  to  the  Church  for  necessary  help,  3,509  persons  have,  during  the  past 
eight  years  relinquished  their  position  on  government  relief  rolls.  Of  this  num- 
ber 1,600  have  been  rehabilitated  and  are  receiving  no  aid  from  the  Church  nor, 
so  far  as  known,  from  any  other  gratuitous  source;  1,221  are  yet  receiving  part 
of  their  support  from  the  Church;  and  688  are  receiving  all  their  needs  from  the 
Church. 

Placement  and  Counseling  Service 

During  1950,  4,747  persons  were  given  occupational  counseling  resulting  in 
the  solution  of  their  employment  problems,  and  5,712  other  persons  were  placed 
in  remunerative  employment.  Reported  unemployment  has  decreased  29%  dur- 
ing the  year. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY  19 

President  David  O.  McKay 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams,  Chairman  of  the  Church  Auditing 
Committee,  will  now  read  the  report  of  the  Church  Auditors,  after 
whom  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney,  of  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve, 
will  speak  to  us. 

REPORT  OF  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  following  report: 

President  David  O.  McKay  and  Council  of  the  Twelve 
47  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

The  Church  Auditing  Committee  has  reviewed  the  annual  financial 
report  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the  year  end- 
ing December  31,  1950. 

The  accounting  system  and  records  were  found  to  be  adequate,  and 
are  meticulously  maintained.  Disbursement  of  Church  funds  is  controlled 
through  a  comprehensive  budget  system,  which  properly  safeguards  ex- 
penditures.  The  funds  are  being  carefully  conserved. 

The  Church  is  in  strong  financial  position  and  free  from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 

Church  Auditing  Committee 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Ye  fearful  saints,  fresh  courage  take; 
The  clouds  ye  so  much  dread 
Are  big  with  mercy,  and  shall  break 
In  blessings  on  your  head. 

If  I  can  enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  for  which  I  earnestly  pray, 
I  desire  to  give  you  a  message  of  hope  and  courage.  I  am  prompted 
to  this  desire  by  the  fact  that  in  my  recent  travels  among  the  people, 
I  have  sensed  a  growing  spirit  of  uneasiness  and  foreboding. 

Spirit  of  Uneasiness 

Following  a  welfare  meeting  held  a  few  months  ago  on  the 
Pacific  Coast,  in  which  we  had  counseled  the  people  to  obtain 
permanent  welfare  production  projects  that  they  might  produce  the 
necessities  to  carry  on  our  welfare  work  without  calling  upon  the 
Saints  year  after  year  for  cash  contributions,  a  sister  told  me  she 
was  comforted  by  our  advice,  that  she  felt  it  would  not  have  been 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

given  if  the  people  were  not  to  stay  there  permanently.  She  had 
been  disturbed  and  worried  by  talk  that  bombs  might  be  dropped 
in  that  area,  necessitating  their  moving  inland. 

This  brought  to  my  mind  the  experiences  of  youth,  when  in  the 
colonies  of  Old  Mexico  we  were  agitated  over  whether  the  troubles 
incident  to  the  Madero  Revolution  would  necessitate  our  leaving 
the  country.  At  the  peak  of  the  disturbances,  our  stake  president 
who  was  my  uncle,  Junius  Romney — planted  an  orchard  of  young 
apple  trees.  I  well  remember  how  my  mind  was  relieved  by  hearing 
people  say  that  if  we  were  facing  expulsion,  the  stake  president 
would  not  be  planting  trees  which  would  take  years  to  mature. 
Notwithstanding  the  comfort  I  got  out  of  that  assurance,  we  did  have 
to  leave. 

Need  for  Hope  and  Courage 

I  was,  of  course,  unable  to  advise  the  good  sister  whether 
bombs  would  be  dropped,  nor  did  I  know  whether  the  city  would 
have  to  be  evacuated,  but  I  did  have  a  great  desire  to  give  her  some 
comfort  and  courage  which  would  ease  her  mind. 

I  remembered  that  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  had  said  that 
leaders  in  the  Church  "should  be  men  not  easily  discouraged,  not 
without  hope,  and  not  given  to  foreboding  of  all  sorts  of  evils  to 
come,"  that  if  they  "sometimes  feel  the  weight  and  anxiety  of  mo- 
mentous times,  they  should  be  all  the  firmer  and  all  the  more  resolute 
in  those  convictions  which  come  from  a  God-fearing  conscience  and 
pure  lives.  It  is^a  matter  of  the  greatest  importance,"  he  concluded, 
"that  the  people  be  educated  to  appreciate  and  cultivate  the  bright 
side  of  life  rather  than  to  permit  its  darkness  and  shadows  to  hover 
over  them."  (Gospel  Doctrine,  p.  193.) 

Calamities  Ahead 

I  could  not  give  her,  nor  can  I  extend  to  you,  much  hope  and 
courage  based  upon  an  expectation  that  we  are  about  to  enter  upon 
a  period  of  world  peace  and  security.  I  do  not  expect  any  such 
happy  circumstances  to  prevail  in  the  immediate  future.  As  I  read 
the  signs  of  the  times,  in  light  of  the  revealed  word  of  God,  we  are 
in  line  for  something  quite  different. 

A  long  time  ago  the  Lord  raised  the  curtain  on  the  scene  of  de- 
struction awaiting  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  if  they  followed  to 
the  end  the  course  they  were  then  pursuing.  More  than  a  hundred 
years  ago,  he  said  that  a  desolating  scourge  should  go  forth  among 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  and  if  they  repented  not,  it  should  con- 
tinue from  time  to  time  until  the  earth  was  empty  and  the  inhabitants 
thereof  utterly  destroyed. 

For  all  flesh  is  corrupted  before  me;  and  the  powers  of  darkness  prevail 
upon  the  earth,  among  the  children  of  men. 

...  all  eternity  is  pained,  and  the  angels  are  waiting  the  great  com- 
mand to  reap  down  the  earth,  to  gather  the  tares  that  they  may  be 
burned.  (D.  &  C.  38:11-12.) 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


21 


I  am  convinced  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of  men  have 
chosen  to  continue  down  the  path  they  were  then  following.  I  can 
discern  no  change  in  their  course  sufficient  to  justify  in  me  a  hope 
that  the  calamities  which  the  Lord  said  he  knew  would  come  upon 
the  inhabitants  of  the  earth  will  be  turned  aside. 

Courage  of  Faith 

But  we  Latter-day  Saints  must  not  let  ourselves  be  so  engulfed 
with  forebodings  that  we  fail  to  obtain  and  enjoy  such  hope  and 
courage  as  is  within  our  reach — the  hope  and  courage  born  of  faith 
in  the  power  of  righteousness  to  ultimately  triumph.  I  have  bound- 
less confidence  in  that  power.  I  am  persuaded  beyond  all  doubt 
that  the  destiny  of  men  and  nations  is  in  the  hands  of  the  Almighty, 
who  has  respect  for  righteousness,  and  not  in  the  hands  of  conniv- 
ing politicians  whose  wisdom  has  perished,  whose  understanding  has 
come  to  naught,  and  who  have  no  respect  for  righteousness.  If  it 
were  not  so,  I  should  be  in  utter  despair.  I  believe  that  the  record 
and  the  word  of  God  justify  us  in  so  placing  our  hope. 

Charge  to  Joshua 

I  cite  your  attention  to  the  calling  of  Joshua,  the  successor  to 
Moses,  whose  mission  it  was  to  lead  Israel  over  Jordan  and  divide 
among  them  the  promised  land  which  was  then  inhabited  by  an 
armed  and  hostile  people.  It  was  a  difficult  and  arduous  assign- 
ment. To  strengthen  him  for  it,  the  Lord  gave  Joshua  a  great 
promise  and  a  great  charge.    This  is  the  promise: 

There  shall  not  any  man  be  able  to  stand  before  thee  all  the  days  of 
thy  life:  as  I  was  with  Moses,  so  I  will  be  with  thee:  I  will  not  fail  thee, 
nor  forsake  thee. 

And  this  is  the  charge: 

Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage:  for  unto  this  people  shalt  thou  divide 
for  an  inheritance  the  land,  which  I  sware  unto  their  fathers  to  give  them. 
Only  be  thou  strong  and  very  courageous.  .  .  . 

Now  note  with  care  how  Joshua  was  directed  to  show  his  strength 
and  courage,  and  also  that  prosperity  was  to  follow  his  performance. 

.  .  .  that  thou  mayest  observe  to  do  according  to  all  the  law,  which 
Moses  my  servant  commanded  thee:  turn  not  from  it  to  the  right  hand  or 
to  the  left,  that  thou  mayest  prosper  whithersoever  thou  goest. 

Moses  had  been  the  living  prophet  during  the  days  of  Joshua. 

This  book  of  the  law  shall  not  depart  out  of  thy  mouth;  but  thou  shalt 
meditate  therein  day  and  night,  that  thou  mayest  observe  to  do  according 
to  all  that  is  written  therein:  for  then  thou  shalt  make  thy  way  prosperous 
and  then  thou  shalt  have  good  success. 

The  book  of  the  law  was  the  standard  church  work  of  that  day. 

Have  not  I  commanded  thee?  Be  strong  and  of  a  good  courage;  be  not 
afraid,  neither  be  thou  dismayed:  for  the  Lord  thy  God  is  with  thee 
whithersoever  thou  goest.  (Joshua  1 :5-9.) 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

As  I  read  this  scripture,  I  felt  that  Joshua's  obedience  to  the 
teachings  of  Moses  and  to  the  contents  of  the  book  of  the  law  was 
the  test  of  his  strength  and  courage.  The  extent  to  which  he  was 
to  prosper,  be  unafraid  and  undismayed,  and  have  the  Lord  with 
him,  depended  upon  his  rating  in  that  test. 

We  can  demonstrate  our  strength  and  courage  in  the  same  way, 
and  be  unafraid  and  undismayed  and  have  the  Lord  with  us  whither- 
soever we  go,  by  observing  the  teachings  of  the  living  prophets  and 
observing  to  do  according  to  all  that  is  written  in  the  standard  works 
of  the  Church. 

Teachings  of  Wilford  Woodruff 

During  the  last  years  of  President  Woodruff's  life,  his  mind 
dwelt  much  upon  the  calamities  which  were  coming  upon  the  earth, 
and  he  gave  many  warnings  of  them.  But  he  did  not  leave  his 
hearers  in  despair.  Always  he  held  out  to  them  hope  and  courage, 
conditioned  on  their  righteousness.  Here  is  a  sample  of  his  teach- 
ings: 

Over  the  millions  of  people  on  this  earth,  there  hangs  a  cloud  of  dark- 
ness almost  entirely  upon  their  shoulders.  Can  you  tell  me  where  the 
people  are  who  will  be  shielded  and  protected  from  these  great  calamities 
and  judgments  which  are  even  now  at  our  doors?  I'll  tell  you.  The  priest- 
hood of  God  who  honor  their  priesthood,  and  who  are  worthy  of  their 
blessings,  are  the  only  ones  who  shall  have  their  safety  and  protection. 
They  are  the  only  mortal  beings.  No  other  people  have  a  right  to  be 
shielded  from  these  judgments.  They  are  at  our  very  doors;  not  even  this 
people  will  escape  them  entirely.  They  will  come  down  like  the  judg- 
ments of  Sodom  and  Gomorrah.  And  none  but  the  priesthood  will  be 
safe  from  their  fury. 

But  he  concluded  with  this  note  of  assurance: 

If  you  do  your  duty,  and  I  do  my  duty,  we  shall  have  protection,  and 
shall  pass  through  the  afflictions  in  peace  and  in  safety.  (The  Improve- 
ment Era,  Vol.  17,  pp.  1164-1165.) 

On  another  occasion  he  had  this  to  say: 

I  will  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints,  if  they  will  be  faithful,  and  do 
what  they  should  do,  and  listen  to  the  counsel  given  to  them,  they  need  not 
have  any  fears  about  anything,  for  the  whole  work  is  in  the  hands  of 
God,  the  destinies  of  nations  lie  there.  It  is  better  for  a  people  to  be  wise, 
to  get  righteousness,  to  be  the  friends  of  God,  than  to  occupy  any  other 
positions  in  life.  (/.  D.  2,  p.  199,  February  25,  1855,  Discourses  of  Wilford 
Woodruff,  p.  6.) 

Protection  of  Righteous 

Nephi,  speaking  of  our  day  which  by  the  power  of  God  he  had 
seen  in  vision,  said  the  Lord  would  not  suffer  the  wicked  to  destroy 
the  righteous,  but  that  he  would  "preserve  the  righteous  by  his 
power,  even  if  it  so  be  that  the  fulness  of  his  wrath  must  come,  and 
the  righteous  be  preserved,  even  unto  the  destruction  of  their  enemies 
by  fire.  Wherefore,  the  righteous  need  not  fear."  (I  Nephi 
22:16-17.) 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


23 


The  Lord  renewed  this  same  promise  of  protection  to  the  right- 
eous in  1831  when  he  said  he  was  angry  with  the  wicked,  that  he 
was  withholding  his  Spirit  from  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  that  he 
had  decreed  wars  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  and  that  the  wicked 
should  destroy  the  wicked. 

And  the  saints  also  shall  hardly  escape;  nevertheless,  I,  the  Lord,  am 
with  them,  and  will  come  down  in  heaven  from  the  presence  of  my  Father 
and  consume  the  wicked  with  unquenchable  fire.  (D.  &  C.  63:33-34.) 

Two  or  three  months  later,  he  continued: 

.  .  .  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh  at  hand,  when  peace  shall  be 
taken  from  the  earth,  and  the  devil  shall  have  power  over  his  own 
dominion. 

And  also  the  Lord  shall  have  power  over  his  saints,  and  shall  reign 
in  their  midst.  (Ibid.,  1 :35-36.) 

I  am  persuaded  that  a  complete  surrender  to  the  principles  of 
righteousness  would  lift  God's  people  out  of  the  turmoil  of  this  pres- 
ent world.  Such  has  been  the  record  in  the  past,  as  witness  the  ex- 
periences of  Enoch  and  his  people  and  the  record  of  the  Nephites 
following  their  visit  from  the  risen  Redeemer. 

Zion  a  Place  of  Safety 

I  believe  a  similar  performance  by  us  in  our  day  would  bring 
the  same  results.  I  not  only  believe,  but  I  know  it  would,  and  that 
it  will  yet  be  done.  I  don't  know  just  how  soon,  but  I  am  looking 
forward  with  certainty  to  the  fulfilment  of  the  words  spoken  by  the 
Lord  to  the  Church  in  its  infancy,  when  he  directed  the  Saints  to 
gather  together  their  riches  to  purchase  an  inheritance  in  Zion, 
which  he  said  was  to  be  a  land  of  peace,  a  city  of  refuge,  a  place 
of  safety  for  the  Saints  of  the  most  high  God.  There  the  glory  of 
the  Lord  is  to  be  a  terror  to  the  wicked  and  a  comfort  to  the 
righteous.  Zion's  inhabitants  are  to  be  the  only  people  that  shall 
not  be  at  war  one  with  another,  and  every  man  that  will  not  take 
up  his  sword  against  his  neighbour  must  flee  unto  it  for  safety. 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  the  righteous  shall  be  gathered  out 
from  among  all  nations,  and  shall  come  to  Zion,  singing  with  songs  of 
everlasting  joy.  (Ibid.,  45 : 71 . ) 

Hope  in  the  Future 

Now,  I  know,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  will  have  our 
souls  tested  before  we  reach  these  glories  of  the  future,  but  if  we 
have  them  in  view  and  live  righteously,  we  shall  thereby  be  sustained 
for  the  trials  we  must  endure.  Paul  said  it  was  the  glory  set  before 
Jesus  for  which  he  endured  the  cross,  and  President  Young  said  it 
was  the  vision  of  Zion  as  it  shall  be  which  sustained  the  Saints  as 
they  pulled  their  covered  wagons  from  ruts  and  mudholes  and 
trudged  across  the  plains.    Therefore,  with  hope  in  the  future,  let 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

us  lift  up  our  hearts  and  rejoice,  and  with  strength  and  courage  let 
us  gird  up  our  loins  and  take  upon  us  the  whole  armour  of  righteous- 
ness, that  we  may  be  able  to  withstand  these  evil  days,  that  having 
done  all,  we  may  be  able  to  stand. 

And  as  we  journey  through  these  anxious  times, 

The  Lord  bless  thee,  and  keep  thee: 

The  Lord  make  his  face  shine  upon  thee  and  be  gracious  unto  thee: 
The  Lord  lift  up  his  countenance  upon  thee,  and  give  thee  peace.  (Num. 
6-24-26.) 

This  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brigham  Young  University 
joined  with  the  congregation  in  singing  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top," 
conducted  by  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  wish  to  express  my  feelings  along 
with  others  in  this  conference  regarding  the  passing  of  our  late  Presi- 
dent, George  Albert  Smith.  I,  for  one,  have  lost  a  great  friend.  I 
don't  think  anyone  has  been  more  able  to  take  the  place  of  my  earthly 
father  than  President  George  Albert  Smith  has  done. 

I  think  he  emulated  in  his  life  all  of  the  principles  of  the  gospel, 
and  no  matter  what  subject  is  selected  during  this  conference  by  the 
General  Authorities  or  any  of  those  who  speak  here,  it  will  be  a 
subject  of  which  President  George  Albert  Smith  was  an  excellent 
example. 

Key  to  Happiness 

And  I  pray  the  Lord  will  be  with  me  as  I  express  today 
what  thought  I  have  had  in  mind  on  the  principles  of  the  gospel 
and  the  foundation  upon  which  we  may  have  happiness  in  this 
life  and  happiness  in  the  life  to  come;  for  no  happiness  comes  without 
success,  or  without  growth  and  progress. 

Reading  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  twenty-nine, 
verses  36  to  40, 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  Adam,  being  tempted  of  the  devil — for, 
behold,  the  devil  was  before  Adam,  for  he  rebelled  against  me,  saying, 
Give  me  thine  honor,  which  is  my  power;  and  also  a  third  part  of  the 
hosts  of  the  heaven  turned  he  away  from  me  because  of  their  agency; 

And  they  were  thrust  down,  and  thus  came  the  devil  and  his  angels; 

And,  behold,  there  is  a  place  prepared  for  them  from  the  beginning, 
which  place  is  hell. 

And  it  must  needs  be  that  the  devil  should  tempt  the  children  of  men, 
or  they  could  not  be  agents  unto  themselves;  for  if  they  never  should  have 
bitter  they  could  not  know  the  sweet — 

Wherefore,  it  came  to  pass  that  the  devil  tempted  Adam,  and  he 
partook  of  the  forbidden  fruit  and  transgressed  the  commandment,  wherein 
he  became  subject  to  the  will  of  the  devil,  because  he  yielded  unto  tempta- 
tion. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


25 


And  reading  from  Moses: 

And  in  that  day  the  Holy  Ghost  fell  upon  Adam,  which  beareth 
record  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  saying:  I  am  the  only  begotten  of  the 
Father  from  the  beginning,  henceforth  and  forever,  that  as  thou  hast 
fallen  thou  mayest  be  redeemed,  and  all  mankind,  even  as  many  as  will. 

And  in  that  day  Adam  blessed  God  and  was  filled,  and  began  to 
prophesy  concerning  all  the  families  of  the  earth,  saying:  Blessed  be  the 
name  of  God,  for  because  of  my  transgression  my  eyes  are  opened,  and  in 
this  life  I  shall  have  joy,  and  again  in  the  flesh  I  shall  see  God. 

And  Eve,  his  wife,  heard  all  these  things  and  was  glad,  saying: 
Were  it  not  for  our  transgression  we  never  should  have  had  seed,  and 
never  should  have  known  good  and  evil,  and  the  joy  of  our  redemption, 
and  the  eternal  life  which  God  giveth  unto  all  the  obedient.  (Moses 
5:9-11.) 

In  both  these  references  we  are  given  the  key  to  happiness  in 
this  life  and  happiness  in  the  life  to  come  to  carry  throughout  all 
eternity. 

Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that  they  might  have 
joy.  (II  Nephi  2:25.) 

Presence  of  Good  and  Evil 

Joy  comes  as  a  result  of  progress,  as  a  result  of  accomplishment 
for  good.  That  is  why  we  all  shouted  for  joy  when  the  opportunity 
was  given  to  us  to  come  to  this  earth  and  partake  of  the  blessings 
through  obedience,  made  possible  to  us  through  exercising  free 
agency.  For  man  to  exercise  free  agency  he  must  have  both  sides 
to  choose  from.  In  every  decision  made  there  must  be  both  a  good 
and  an  evil  influence;  for  if  we  had  all  of  the  good  or  all  of  the 
evil  we  would  be  right  in  the  same  path  which  Satan  tried  to  estab- 
lish in  the  first  place,  that  of  predestination.  And  so  there  must 
be  both  sides  to  choose  from  in  every  case. 

As  the  Lord  said  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  in  the  verse 
from  which  I  previously  read: 

And  it  must  needs  be  that  the  devil  should  tempt  the  children  of  men, 
or  they  could  not  be  agents  unto  themselves;  for  if  they  never  should  have 
bitter  they  could  not  know  the  sweet.  ( D.  &  C.  29 : 39. ) 

Therefore,  in  all  that  we  do  we  must  be  tempted.  Then  our 
growth  depends  upon  our  obedience.  The  first  step  in  our  progress 
for  the  eternities  is  accepting  the  gospl  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  do  not 
convert  others;  missionaries  do  not  convert  others.  We  teach  them 
to  think  for  themselves;  and  when  they  have  a  desire  within  them- 
selves to  receive  knowledge  and  express  that  desire  in  action,  by  be- 
ing obedient  to  the  desires  of  God,  then  they  have  fulfilled  that  law 
upon  which  that  blessing  is  predicated,  which  brings  a  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  to  them  through  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Baptism  is  the  fulfilling  of  an  ordinance  which  is  an  act  of  testi- 
fying that  we  will  be  obedient  in  keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


The  greatest  blessing  promised  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  that  of 
knowledge.  The  promises  given  are: 

And  all  saints  who  remember  to  keep  and  do  these  sayings,  walking 
in  obedience  to  the  commandments,  shall  receive  health  in  their  navel  and 
marrow  to  their  bones; 


And  shall  find  wisdom  and  great  treasures  of  knowledge,  even  hidden 
treasures.  {D  .&  C.  89:18-19.) 


I  am  reminded  of  a  story  of  a  man  who  once  tried  to  discontinue 
the  use  of  tobacco.  He  became  almost  a  nervous  wreck.  He  worried 
himself  sick  about  how  much  he  was  going  without  tobacco.  It  was 
on  his  mind  constantly  until  he  became  so  nervous  and  so  shaky  that 
he  couldn't  hold  his  hands  still.  Then  later  on,  the  elders — the 
missionaries — contacted  him  and  told  him  about  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom and  he  said,  "If  that's  what  the  Lord  wants,  then  I'll  do  it."  And 
with  the  idea  in  his  mind  that  he  was  going  to  do  it  because  of  obedi- 
ence to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  he  discontinued  the  use  of 
tobacco;  and  he  held  his  hands  out  in  front  of  the  visitors  with  him 
and  said,  "Look  how  steady  I  am;  I'm  as  steady  as  ony  of  them  and 
I  have  gone  without  tobacco  for  some  months." 

Our  mental  attitude  has  much  to  do  with  whether  or  not  we 
want  to  be  obedient  to  the  commandments  of  the  Lord. 

The  same  is  true  in  respect  to  paying  tithing.  If  a  man  pays  his 
tithing  because  he  wants  to  be  obedient  to  the  commandments  of  God, 
he  will  receive  more  blessings  as  a  result,  and  it  will  be  much  easier  to 
pay.  And  so  it  is  with  all  other  requirements  of  the  gospel;  for  ex- 
ample, attendance  at  sacrament  meetings.  What  is  said  at  Church  is 
not  always  remembered,  but  we  receive  the  blessing  for  being  obedi- 
ent. As  a  result  we  carry  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  with  us  in  our  work 
between  meetings  and  in  our  various  activities  until  we  again  gather 
with  the  Saints. 


Some  people  sacrifice  all  the  blessings  of  the  temple  endowment 
and  sealing,  including  the  blessings  of  godhood  and  exaltation  just 
because  they  do  not  want  to  be  obedient  in  wearing  the  temple  gar- 
ment. The  greatest  blessing  that  comes  from  wearing  the  garment  is 
the  result  of  obedience.  Then  the  Lord  will  bless  us.  The  success  of 
our  entire  earth  life  depends  upon  how  well  we  learn  to  be  obedient. 
There  can  be  no  obedience  without  free  agency  which  gives  us  both 
good  and  evil  to  choose  from.  Thank  God  for  the  gospel  plan  and 
the  power  God  gives  us  to  resist  evil  and  choose  the  right. 

And  may  the  Lord  be  with  us  and  give  us  those  blessings  that 
we  need,  to  carry  us  through  these  troubled  times,  for  as  long  as  we 
are  obedient  to  his  will  and  do  that  which  is  in  our  power,  the  Lord 
will  take  care  of  the  rest  of  it.    And  we  needn't  worry  about  dis- 


Desire  to  be  Obedient 


Blessings  Follow  Obedience 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


27 


tressed  times,  for  as  long  as  we  have  the  gospel  plan  and  live  it  with 
the  idea  of  being  obedient  to  the  desires  of  our  Heavenly  Father,  his 
way  is  the  best  way,  and  all  other  things  will  be  taken  care  of.  Seek 
ye  first  the  kingdom  of  heaven  and  all  else  shall  be  added  unto  it. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  upon  this  people  and  those  at 
this  conference  and  those  who  shall  follow  me  in  occupying  the  time 
here,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Death  has  brought  deep  sorrow  to  us  all  this  day.  President 
George  Albert  Smith  has  been  called  to  the  great  beyond,  and 
though  we  know  it  was  the  will  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  yet  his 
passing  will  be  keenly  felt  by  the  thousands  of  people  who  had 
come  under  his  influence.  His  life  was  one  of  noblest  effort  to  attain 
a  knowledge  of  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  He  never  held  aught 
against  his  neighbor;  and  every  day  witnessed  a  divine  act  for 
someone  who  was  in  need.  Could  each  one  who  knew  him  vow 
to  do  his  little  task  even  as  he  did  his  greater  one,  in  the  manner  of 
a  true  man,  not  for  a  day  but  for  eternity,  what  a  better  world  we 
would  have.  He  was  the  spirit  he  worked  in.  As  an  Apostle  and 
President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  he  was  a  light  unto  his 
people  and  pointed  the  way  by  his  purity  of  life  and  constancy  to 
the  divine  purposes  of  his  God.  Traveling  hopefully  on  day  by  day, 
he  gave  every  hour  of  his  life  to  the  dream  of  establishing  the  king- 
dom of  God  upon  the  earth.  According  to  the  promise,  he  looked  for 
a  new  heaven  and  a  new  earth  wherein  dwelleth  righteousness.  He 
lived  ".  .  .  to  give  light  to  them  that  sit  in  darkness  and  in  the 
shadow  of  death,  to  guide  our  feet  into  the  way  of  peace."  Luke 
1:79.) 

His  comforting  word  this  day  would  have  been: 

Arise,  shine;  for  thy  light  is  come,  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  is 
risen  upon  thee. 

For,  behold,  the  darkness  shall  cover  the  earth,  and  gross  darkness 
the  people:  but  the  Lord  shall  arise  upon  thee,  and  his  glory  shall  be 
seen  upon  thee.  ( Isaiah  60:1-2.) 

I  should  like  to  speak  briefly  to  you  seventies  and  to  the  priest- 
hood of  the  Church  in  general. 

Present-day  Conditions 

We  are  all  greatly  concerned  with  the  present-day  social  and 
religious  conditions  of  the  world.  For  all  the  wrongs  that  are  in 
the  world  today,  for  all  the  false  teachings  and  terrible  wars  that 
we  have  experienced,  all  the  tragedies  and  sufferings  of  humanity 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


caused  by  sin  and  the  loss  of  faith  in  God,  our  children  will  have 
to  pay  in  the  future.  It  was  the  historian  Froude  who  wrote: 

History  is  a  voice  forever  sounding  across  the  centuries  the  laws  of 
right  and  wrong.  Opinions  alter,  manners  change,  creeds  rise  and  fall, 
but  the  moral  law  is  written  on  the  tablets  of  eternity.  For  every  false 
word  or  unrighteous  deed,  for  cruelty  and  oppression,  for  lust  or  vanity, 
the  price  has  to  be  paid  at  last:  not  always  by  the  chief  offenders,  but 
paid  by  some  one.  Justice  and  falsehood  may  be  long-lived,  but  dooms- 
day comes  at  last  to  them,  in  revolutions  and  other  terrible  ways. 

Our  civilization  has  arrived  at  its  present  state  after  ages  of 
conflict  between  right  and  wrong.  All  its  achievements  and  all  its 
hopes  of  greater  things  are  now  in  a  critical  hour  for  better  or  for 
worse.  Many  men  and  women  in  governmental  affairs  have  no 
clear  idea  of  their  responsibility  that  humanity  should  have  towards 
the  future  of  mankind. 


It  is  true  that  good  men  do  rise  to  their  responsibilities.  They 
understand  the  great  problems  of  the  hour.  There  are  men  who  in 
the  hours  of  human  history  have  messages  from  God.  They  have 
been  inspired  because  they  approached  life  with  deep  faith.  Forti- 
fied by  faith  these  men  have  gone  quietly  about  teaching  the  world 
the  dream  of  moral  and  spiritual  perfection.  Such  men  are  few,  but 
their  messages  are  universal.  You  and  I,  my  brother  seventies, 
know  deeply  in  our  hearts  the  meaning  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  are  deeply  convinced  that  we  have  the  insight  to  listen  to  the 
voice  from  heaven.  You  must  become  profoundly  convinced  of  your 
divine  mission,  and  you  will  also  come  to  know  that  there  are  men 
living  today  whose  lives  are  lives  of  revelation.  It  is  from  Christ, 
our  Redeemer,  that  we  learn  the  lesson  of  eternal  life  and  become 
conscious  of  the  immortality  of  spiritual  values. 


The  seventy  of  the  Church  bear  a  noble  and  divine  title.  To 
understand  the  words  used  to  designate  the  meaning  of  our  priest- 
hood gives  a  better  understanding  of  ancient  life  and  thought.  We 
sense  more  clearly  the  deeply  religious  atmosphere  of  Biblical  life, 
which  will  awaken  within  us  a  more  ardent  missionary  zeal.  There 
was  under  Moses,  and  apparently  in  all  ages,  a  senate  or  council 
of  elders  numbering  seventy  or  seventy-two  on  whom  lay  a  special 
responsibility  as  the  advisers  of  the  nation.  Shortly  after  leaving 
Sinai,  a  council  of  seventy  was  chosen  from  among  the  elders  or 
chiefs  of  all  the  tribes  except  Levi  and  solemnly  set  apart  to  their 
dignity  by  Moses,  as  a  kind  of  senate  to  aid  him  by  their  counsel. 
After  being  confirmed  in  their  dignity  by  the  people,  they  assembled 
around  the  sacred  tent,  and  the  whole  number  broke  out  into 


Inspired  Men 


A  Divine  Title 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


29 


prophetic  enthusiasm  under  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  The 
seventy  chosen  from  all  the  tribes  anticipated,  in  their  prophetic 
gifts,  a  characteristic  of  future  generations.  Says  Geikie: 

It  is  singular  to  notice  the  constant  recurrence  of  the  number  Seven: 
Seven  priests  go  before  the  Ark  with  seven  trumpets,  for  seven  days,  going 
seven  times  round  the  city  on  the  seventh  day.  The  Passover  and  the 
Feast  of  Tabernacles  each  lasted  seven  days.  To  ratify  an  oath  was  to 
"seven  it."  The  number  seems  to  have  been  regarded  as  the  symbol  of 
completeness  or  perfection,  and  to  have  been  as  such,  connected  inti- 
mately with  everything  relating  to  God. 

We  recall  the  seven  virtues  or  gifts  of  the  Spirit,  known  in 
ancient  times  to  the  seventy  elders.  Balzac,  the  French  historian, 
quotes  Louis  Lambert  of  whom  he  writes  as  declaring  that  the  word 
"seven"  is  the  "Formula  of  Heaven."  Therefore  as  you  live  and 
express  your  thoughts,  as  you  think,  as  you  act,  must  be  in  accord- 
ance with  the  fundamental  ideals  of  heaven.  We  see  the  beauty 
and  the  sacredness  of  the  word  "seven."  We  understand  the  mean- 
ing of  the  kigdom  of  God  because  we  possess  its  power.  We  are 
reminded  here  of  the  saying  above  the  door  of  the  Harvard  School 
of  Music: 

To  charm,  to  strengthen,  and  to  teach — these  are  the  three  great 
chords  of  might. 

People  Need  the  Gospel 

The  people  of  the  world  need  to  be  taught  the  gospel  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior.  Teaching  is  unfolding  the  divine  spark  within 
every  person  into  its  fullest  majestic  purpose  and  scope.  Teaching 
is  from  within  out.  A  teacher  must  know  something  about  the  subject 
he  is  explaining  to  a  listener.  For  this  reason  every  missionary 
should  be  a  student,  and  this  means  hard  work.  It  means  self- 
discipline  and  the  desire  to  live  the  "simple  life,"  the  life  that  reaches 
out  to  God.  Of  course  the  missionaries  are  idealists,  caring  first  for 
the  welfare  of  men  to  awaken  them  to  a  sense  of  what  life  really 
means.  No  one  can  deny  the  force  or  the  beauty  of  the  desire  for 
extending  one's  own  belief  and  hopes  to  others,  for  imparting  to  them 
the  comfort  and  light  of  one's  own  salvation.  This  was  the  thing 
that  characterized  the  life  of  Paul  the  Apostle  and  that  inspires  the 
mighty  hosts  of  missionaries  of  today.  Life  in  the  missionary's  heart 
is  made  over,  and  no  sooner  has  the  faith  and  the  hope  of  an  illumi- 
nated future  taken  hold  of  him  than  he  is  desirous  to  disseminate 
this  possession  to  all  the  world.  It  is  the  power  of  the  gospel  truth 
that  gives  him  what  he  calls  his  "testimony."  There  is  a  spendor  of 
spirit  and  often  a  grandeur  of  achievement  which  bring  to  him  hal- 
lowed feelings  and  a  grateful  heart  for  what  he,  through  the  Spirit 
of  God,  has  been  able  to  accomplish. 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

Calling  of  the  Twelve  and  Seventy 

At  an  early  period  in  his  ministry,  Jesus,  after  a  night  of  prayer 
in  a  lonely  mountain  spot,  chose  twelve  men  for  his  Apostles.  It 
was  an  important  event  in  history,  for  it  indicated  the  design  of  the 
Master  to  organize  his  ministry  that  the  work  of  teaching  the  gospel 
might  be  inaugurated  at  once.  The  Apostles  were  to  go  forth  two 
by  two  that  the  Master  might  become  known.  They  were  to  work 
miracles,  heal  the  sick,  and  bless  the  lowly.  Reverently  does  James 
in  his  epistle  describe  how  they  prayed  and  anointed  the  sick  with 
oil  in  the  name  of  the  Lord.  (See  James  5:14-15.) 

After  choosing  the  Twelve,  Jesus  called  the  Seventy.  We  read 
in  Luke  10:1,  these  words: 

After  these  things  the  Lord  appointed  other  seventy  also,  and  sent 
them  two  and  two  before  his  face  into  every  city  and  place,  whither  he 
himself  would  come. 

When  the  Apostles  and  Seventy  were  chosen,  it  is  natural  to 
believe  that  a  discourse  on  the  ideal  life,  under  the  sovereignty  of 
the  Father,  was  delivered  by  Jesus.  This  was  the  Sermon  on  the 
Mount,  for  he  wished  to  teach  his  disciples  the  way  of  life  that  they 
might  enter  into  the  true  significance  of  his  doctrines.  It  was  an 
ideal  of  principles,  and  not  a  code  of  rules.  This  viewpoint,  that  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount  was  the  ordination  sermon,  is  that  of  Luke 
and  many  modern  writers  on  the  life  of  Christ. 

Jesus  founded  his  Church  upon  the  rock  of  revelation,  and  he 
set  forth  in  clearness  that  his  Church  is  an  organized  reality,  small 
in  numbers,  in  its  beginning,  but  destined  to  become  a  world  move- 
ment. He  inspired  his  Apostles  and  Seventies  with  a  definite  con- 
sciousness of  unity.  The  men  he  called  were  not  great  men  in  the 
ordinary  sense;  they  were  representative  of  the  common  people, 
possessing  neither  wealth  nor  great  learning.  They  were  qualified 
for  their  calling  by  their  deep  desire  for  goodness  and  truth.  In  him 
they  came  to  find  the  Word  of  Life. 

Teachers  of  Righteousness 

You  seventies  are  the  teachers  of  righteousness  to  all  nations. 
You  bear  your  faithful  testimonies  to  the  divine  light  of  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  The  spirit  with  which  you  go  forth  is  that  of  the 
Sermon  on  the  Mount.  The  results  of  your  teachings  will  be  far- 
reaching. 

The  world  of  today  is  awakening  and  looking  to  the  future  with 
renewed  faith  and  hope.  A  spiritual  epoch  is  upon  us  and  a  spiritual 
freedom  is  being  made  by  mankind.  President  Brigham  Young  once 
said  that  "the  one  way  to  scatter  doubt  is  for  all  to  begin  work." 
Hopes  are  more  real  than  fears;  faith  more  potent  than  uncertainty. 
Beautiful  were  the  words  of  the  shepherds  of  old  when  they  said: 
"Let  us  now  go  unto  Bethlehem,  and  see  this  thing  that  has  come 
to  pass."  The  world  must  turn  to  Bethlehem. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


31 


May  we  Seventies  come  to  a  deeper  realization  of  what  our 
duties  are,  and  so  long  as  we  are  pure  in  heart  and  humble  in  spirit, 
the  way  will  be  made  clear  by  our  faith  in  God.  I  ask  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  us  all,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now 
speak  to  us. 

If  President  Heber  Meeks,  former  president  of  the  Southern 
States  Mission,  is  in  the  audience,  we  should  like  him  to  come  for- 
ward, and  President  Jean  Wunderlich'  of  the  West  German  Mission 
also. 

ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  sincerely  pray  for  the  sustaining  power  of  your  faith  and 
prayers  for  the  few  moments  that  I  shall  stand  before  you  this 
morning. 

The  Hand  of  Death 

As  we  sit  this  morning  with  the  present  reminder  of  the  hand 
of  death,  all  of  us  moved  with  a  common  impulse  of  feeling  toward 
our  great  leader,  I  have  recalled  a  remark  that  was  made  to  Elder 
Lorenzo  H.  Hatch  and  myself,  as  we  waited  down  at  Las  Vegas, 
Nevada,  a  few  weeks  ago  for  a  late,  delayed  train.  We  chanced 
to  be  in  conversation  with  a  life  insurance  salesman  who  is  reputed 
to  be  one  of  the  outstanding  salesmen  in  America.  He  expressed  a 
sentiment  that  has  intrigued  me,  and  I  want  to  repeat  it  to  you 
because  of  the  impression  it  made  upon  me.  He  said,  "If  you  ever 
want  to  stir  a  man  into  action,  you  want  to  back  up  the  hearse  and 
let  him  smell  the  flowers  prepared  for  his  own  service." 

At  first  that  seemed  to  be  a  terribly  gruesome  prospect,  but  as 
I  thought  about  it  the  more,  it  seemed  to  me  that  after  all  it  was 
but  a  crude  way  of  stating  a  great  eternal  truth  that  has  been 
thundered  to  us  by  the  prophets  from  the  beginning.  All  through 
the  scriptures  we  have  had  a  counsel  given  us  that  all  that  we  should 
do,  we  should  do  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God,  which  glory, 
the  Lord  declared  to  Moses,  was  to  bring  to  pass  immortality  and 
eternal  life,  that  very  reminder  that  death  draws  nearer  each  day 
that  we  live.  It  was  that  same  thought  expressed  by  the  Apostle 
Paul  when  he  said: 

If  in  this  life  only  we  have  hope  in  Christ,  we  are  of  all  men 
most  miserable. 

.  .  .  For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive. 
(7  Cor.  15:19-22.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


The  Time  to  Prepare 


It  was  also  the  great  prophet  Amulek's  testimony  in  which  he 
declared, 

For  behold,  this  life  is  the  time  for  men  to  prepare  to  meet  God;  .  .  . 
[and]  to  perform  their  labors. 

.  .  .  for  after  this  day  of  life,  which  is  given  us  to  prepare  for  eternity, 
behold,  if  we  do  not  improve  our  time  while  in  this  life,  then  Cometh  the 
night  of  darkness  wherein  there  can  be  no  labor  performed. 

For  behold,  if  ye  have  procrastinated  the  day  of  your  repentance  even 
until  death,  behold,  ye  have  become  subjected  to  the  spirit  of  the  devil, 
and  he  doth  seal  you  his;  therefore,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  hath  withdrawn 
from  you,  and  hath  no  place  in  you,  and  the  devil  hath  all  power  over  you; 
and  this  is  the  final  state  of  the  wicked.  (Alma  34:32-33,  35. ) 

It  was  this  very  reminder  that  the  Angel  Moroni  gave  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  which  he  records  in  that  famous  Wentworth  letter 
when  he  quoted  the  Angel  Moroni  as  saying  that 

.  .  .  preparatory  work  for  the  second  coming  of  the  Messiah  was 
speedily  to  commence;  that  the  time  was  at  hand  for  the  gospel  in  all 
its  fulness  to  be  preached  in  power,  unto  all  nations,  that  a  people  might 
be  prepared  for  the  Millennial  reign.  (D.  H.  C.  IV:537.) 


In  making  for  that  preparation,  the  Lord  has  defined  certain 
great  responsibilities  for  his  Church.  He  said  as  one  of  the  signs  of 
his  coming  that  the  gospel  of  the  kingdom  was  to  be  preached  unto 
all  the  world  for  a  witness  unto  all  nations,  and  then  should  the  end 
come,  or  the  destruction  of  the  wicked.  (See  Matt.  24:14.)  That 
witness  we  have  understood,  was  to  be  a  witness  of  the  mission  of 
the  Messiah.  It  was  to  be  a  witness  of  the  divinity  of  his  mission. 
It  was  to  be  a  witness  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  had  been 
restored  in  all  its  fulness,  in  this  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times. 


But  there  was  something  else  that  we  were  supposed  to  witness 
which  is  also  spoken  of  in  the  revelations.  Alma  spoke  of  this  to 
his  people  who  were  about  to  be  baptized.  As  a  part  of  the  cove- 
nant which  they  were  about  to  enter,  he  said  that  they  were  to 
stand  as  witnesses  of  God  at  all  times  and  in  all  things,  and  in  all 
places  that  they  might  be  in,  even  until  death.  (Mosiah  18:9.)  In 
one  of  the  earliest  revelations  given  in  this  dispensation,  the  Lord 
said, 

And  even  so  I  have  sent  mine  everlasting  covenant  into  the  world, 
to  be  a  light  to  the  world,  and  to  be  a  standard  for  my  people,  and  for 
the  Gentiles  to  seek  to  it.  (D.  &  C.  45:9.) 

He  again  admonished  us,  on  the  day  when  he  gave  the  name 
by  which  the  Church  was  to  be  called.  After  giving  us  the  name, 


Gospel  to  be  Preached 


A  Light  to  the  World 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


33 


.  .  .  thus  shall  my  church  be  called  in  the  last  days,  even  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all:  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  they  light  may 
be  a  standard  for  the  nations.  ( Ibid.,  115: 4-5. ) 

As  I  have  thought  of  those  scriptures,  I  have  remembered  a 
statement  that  was  made  by  an  official  of  the  United  States  Steel 
Corporation  after  I  had  spent  an  hour  or  two  with  him  and  his  com- 
pany of  officials  down  at  Welfare  Square.  He  said  to  me,  "This 
is  a  practical  demonstration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  in  giving 
aid  to  the  needy  and  the  less  fortunate." 

Witnesses  Before  the  World 

That  was  a  new  concept  to  me,  that  in  the  welfare  program 
we  were  standing  as  witnesses  before  the  world  of  the  divine  way 
by  which  the  Lord's  work  was  to  be  done. 

So,  we  witness  in  our  missionary  work  the  magnificent  spectacle 
of  young  men  and  young  women,  for  the  most  part,  to  all  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  that  by  their  unselfish  services  they  stand  as  witnesses 
at  all  times  and  in  all  places  of  the  divine  responsibility  upon  the 
Church  to  teach  the  gospel. 

So,  in  making  sacrifice,  in  the  payment  of  our  tithes,  and  in 
fasting  and  paying  our  fast  offerings,  in  raising  money  to  pay  for 
meetinghouses  and  temples,  again  we  are  witnessing  that  the  law 
of  sacrifice  is  required  of  all  true  Saints  if  we  would  claim  kinship 
to  him  who  gave  his  life  that  men  might  be. 

In  our  social  conduct,  in  our  dancing,  in  our  play,  we  must 
never  forget  that  in  that  play  we  are  witnessing  also  that  we  are  his 
special  witnesses  of  the  divinity  of  the  organizations  who  sponsor 
our  play. 

So,  every  boy  in  military  service,  and  every  girl  in  her  social 
conduct,  every  businessman  in  his  dealings  with  his  neighbor,  is  a 
witness  as  to  whether  or  not  this  work  in  which  he  believes  is 
divine.  The  Church  rises  or  falls  on  the  tide  of  these  personal  wit- 
nesses. 

A  few  weeks  ago  I  sat  in  fast  meeting  in  the  South  Eighteenth 
Ward  (Salt  Lake  City)  and  heard  a  lovely  girl  in  her  mid-twenties 
stand  to  bear  her  testimony.  It  was  a  thrilling  testimony  of  a  beauti- 
ful Latter-day  Saint  girl.  She  told  in  her  testimony  about  a  morning 
out  on  the  farm  in  a  little  country  district  where  at  four  o'clock  in 
the  morning  she  went  out  with  her  father  to  milk  the  cows.  And  as 
the  father  and  she  went  out  towards  the  barn,  her  father  took  her 
by  the  hand  and  said,  "My  girl,  you  are  the  product  of  this  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  you  are  also  the  product  of  a  true  Latter-day 
Saint  home.  If  you  fail,  so  far  as  you  are  concerned  the  Church 
has  failed  and  your  home  has  failed."  That  girl  from  that  time  has 
realized  that  she,  as  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  was  a 
witness  of  it  to  all  the  world  either  for  good  or  for  bad. 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

Oh,  the  majesty  of  Joseph  sold  into  Egypt,  who  shamed  the 
beautiful  but  apparently  unloved  wife  of  Potiphar,  when  she  would 
have  tempted  him  to  a  serious  sin,  and  he  said,  "My  master  trusts 
me,  and  thou  art  his  wife.  How  can  I  do  this  great  wickedness  and 
sin  against  God?"  (See  Gen.  39:8.)  He,  too,  felt  his  great  respon- 
sibility in  being  a  true  witness  of  the  divine  truths  which  he  pro- 
fessed to  believe. 

In  one  of  the  revelations  the  Lord  said  something  else  that  to 
me  has  significance  here.  He  said, 

For  Zion  must  increase  in  beauty,  and  in  holiness;  her  borders  must 
be  enlarged;  her  stakes  must  be  strengthened;  yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you, 
Zion  must  arise  and  put  on  her  beautiful  garments.  (D.  6  C.  82:14.) 

Japanese  Missionary  Girl 

I  heard  a  lovely  Japanese  missionary  girl  down  at  Kamuela  on 
the  island  of  Hawaii  a  few  years  ago  make  what  I  think  was  a  per- 
sonal application  of  that  principle  as  it  pertained  to  her  home.  There 
were  few  missionaries  in  that  day,  the  war  was  not  yet  ended,  and 
this  young  lady  and  her  companion  were  two  of  the  only  four 
missionaries  on  that  island.  We  had  in  the  audience  eighty-five 
United  States  marines,  all  Latter-day  Saints,  who  were  being  trained 
there  supposedly  for  an  invasion  off  Japan,  the  homeland  of  these 
two  lovely  missionary  girls.  Our  sister  missionary  was  called  to 
speak  before  that  kind  of  audience.  Tremblingly  she  stood  at  the 
pulpit,  and  this  is  what  she  said:  "When  my  father  came  to  me  and 
told  me  that  they  wanted  me  to  go  on  a  mission,  I  said  to  him,  'No, 
Father,  I  can't  go  on  a  mission.'  "  He  pressed  her  as  to  why,  and 
she  said,  "Oh,  I  just  can't."  But  he  urged  further,  and  then  she  said, 
"I  can't  go  because  if  I  go  out  into  the  mission  field  I'll  be  expected 
to  preach  certain  principles  of  the  gospel,  principles  which  my  own 
father  and  my  own  family  are  not  living." 

The  father  asked,  "What  are  we  not  doing  that  you'd  have 
to  preach?" 

"Well,"  replied  his  daughter,  "I'll  be  expected  to  teach  the  law 
of  sacrifice.  You're  not  even  paying  your  tithing.  I'll  be  asked  to 
teach  them  about  family  prayers,  and  we  never  have  family  prayers. 
I'll  be  expected  to  teach  the  Word  of  Wisdom;  we're  using  coffee 
and  tea  in  our  home.  I'll  be  expected  to  teach  the  importance  of 
giving  service  in  the  Church,  and  you  are  shunning  that  service. 
No,  Father,  I  can't  go  out  and  be  a  hypocrite." 

I  think  that  father  spent  a  sleepless  night.  "The  next  morning," 
our  Japanese  sister  said,  "Father  came  to  me  and  said,  'You  go,  my 
dear,  and  your  father  will  try  to  live  as  his  daughter  will  preach.'  " 

Two  days  later,  I  met  her  over  at  Honolulu  at  a  missionary 
conference,  and  she  had  just  been  home  for  the  first  time  in  nearly 
two  years.  And  during  the  course  of  the  conference  I  whispered 


ELDER  HEBER  MEEKS 


35 


to  her,  "How  did  you  find  things  at  home?"  She  smiled,  and  tears 
were  in  her  eyes  as  she  said,  "It's  all  right.  Father  is,  and  I'm  happy." 

Youth  that  we  send  out  from  us  rarely  ever  will  be  stronger 
than  the  kind  of  homes  and  environment  from  which  they  come. 
The  challenge  of  this  time,  what  with  military  service  of  young  men 
eighteen  years,  young  girls  disturbed  in  their  social  life,  is  to  see 
that  Zion  is  increased  in  holiness.  We  must  increase  in  beauty.  Our 
homes,  our  quorums,  our  wards,  and  our  stakes  must  be  strength- 
ened. Zion  must  arise  and  put  on  her  most  beautiful  garments. 

Counsel  of  Susannah  Wesley 

A  short  while  ago  I  read  wise  counsel  from  a  lovely  mother, 
Susannah  Wesley,  mother  of  John  Wesley,  famed  in  religious 
circles.  This  was  what  this  lovely  mother  said  to  her  son,  which  was 
a  criterion  by  which  he  could  judge  right  and  wrong,  in  pleasure, 
and  for  that  matter  in  all  the  affairs  of  life.  These  were  her  words: 

Would  you  judge  the  lawfulness  or  unlawfulness  of  pleasure?  Then 
use  this  rule:  Whatever  weakens  your  reason,  impairs  the  tenderness  of 
your  conscience,  obscures  your  sight  of  God,  takes  from  you  your  thirst 
for  spiritual  things,  or  increases  the  authority  of  your  body  over  your 
mind,  then  that  thing  to  you  is  evil.  By  this  test  you  may  detect  evil  no 
matter  how  subtly  or  how  plausibly  temptation  may  be  presented  to  you. 

Oh,  I  wish  that  every  youth  would  use  that  rule  and  measure 
everything  presented  to  him  in  order  that  he  might  choose  the  right. 
God  grant  that  we  may  strengthen  Zion  within  ourselves,  that  we 
might  live  nobly  and  prepare  to  present  ourselves  in  honor  at  the 
close  of  our  lives  here,  before  him  whose  name  we  bear  as  members 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  MEEKS 

Former  President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

Our  souls  have  been  fed,  our  lives  enriched,  our  spirits  lifted 
up,  by  the  inspired  messages  which  have  come  to  us  from  these  ser- 
vants of  the  Lord.  And  while  there  is  darkness,  confusion,  and  al- 
most utter  despair  in  the  world,  what  a  glorious  thing  it  is  that 
there  is  a  place  in  the  earth,  where  we  may  come,  as  it  were,  and 
sit  at  the  feet  of  the  living  prophets  of  God  and  receive  light  and 
truth  from  the  very  throne  of  God.  Our  pathway  is  thus  made  sure, 
and  we  can  walk  among  our  fellow  men  in  that  quiet  serenity  born 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  of  God,  that  Spirit  which  brings  a  peace  to  the 
human  soul  that  surpasseth  the  understanding  of  men. 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  this  Church, 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  the  repository 
of  those  principles  and  ordinances  and  sacraments  which  will  redeem 
the  human  soul,  that  within  it  is  the  power  to  bring  the  human  soul 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

to  perfection,  and  that  within  this  Church  and  only  in  this  Church 
is  the  power  and  the  authority  to  dispense  the  light  of  the  everlast- 
ing Gospel  and  administer  the  ordinances  and  the  sacraments  of  the 
Gospel  to  the  salvation  and  exaltation  of  the  human  soul. 

Sister  Meeks  and  I  enjoyed  our  approximately  five  years  pre- 
siding in  the  Southern  States  Mission.  We  were  there  during  some 
very  strenuous  times.  We  went  into  the  mission  field  as  our  country 
went  into  World  War  II,  and  the  missionaries  were  leaving  the 
field.  It  was  not  very  long  until  we  were  without  the  regular  mis- 
sionaries, and  all  of  the  responsibilities  of  carrying  forward  mission- 
ary work  were  placed  upon  the  local  people.  It  was  a  great  blessing 
in  a  way,  to  the  people  of  that  mission.  They  not  only  carried  for- 
ward in  the  work  of  the  organized  branches  and  districts,  but  they 
also  carried  forward  faithfully  in  the  missionary  work.  We  had 
some  five  or  six  hundred  of  the  local  people  set  apart  as  missionaries 
,  to  carry  the  Gospel  message  to  the  people.  Hundreds  of  Book  of 
Mormons  were  sold  and  distributed.  As  I  recall,  in  1947,  480  bap- 
tisms were  performed  in  that  Mission  by  our  local  missionaries,  and 
it  was  a  marvelous  thing  to  see  the  growth  and  development  that 
came  to  the  local  people  as  they  assumed  their  responsibilities  in 
the  Priesthood,  in  presiding  over  the  Districts  and  the  Branches. 
We  endeavored  to  carry  out  the  full  program  of  the  Church,  just 
as  far  as  we  could  in  the  mission  field.  We  qualified  in  the  same  year, 
in  1947,  34  of  our  lesser  Priesthood  quorums  for  the  Standard  Quo- 
rum Award;  85  of  our  Priesthood  boys  won  the  Individual  Quorum 
Award.  We  endeavored  to  carry  out  the  Welfare  program  of  the 
Church.  I  was  just  talking  a  few  moments  ago  with  President  Zap- 
pey,  of  the  Holland  Mission,  to  whom  we  shipped  some  29  boxes  of 
clothing,  in  which  were  hundreds  of  items  of  clothing,  that  went  to 
those  good  people  in  Holland.  We  also  sent  to  the  European  Saints 
some  10,000  cans  of  food,  which  was  prepared  under  the  Welfare 
program  in  the  Mission.  It  was  our  great  privilege  to  have  two 
Stakes  of  Zion  organized  in  the  Mission,  while  we  were  presiding 
there,  and  two  of  the  highlights  of  our  service  in  the  Mission  field 
were  the  association  we  had  with  President  Charles  A.  Callis  and 
Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  in  the  organization  of  the  Florida  Stake,  and 
with  Brother  Bowen  and  Brother  Moyle  in  the  organization  of  the 
South  Carolina  Stake,  and  I  think  largely  through  the  efforts  to 
carry  out  the  full  program  of  the  Church  these  men  and  women  were 
well  qualified  to  become  Stakes  of  Zion,  and  I  think  that  the  wonder- 
ful records  which  they  have  made  since  their  organization  is  evi- 
dence of  their  qualifications. 

We  enjoyed  laboring  in  the  Southland  among  those  wonderful 
people.  It  has  always  been  a  rich  field  for  missionary  service.  I 
doubt  if  there  is  a  Stake  in  Zion  where  there  is  not  some  of  the  blood 
of  our  southern  people.  It  was  one  of  the  very  early  missionary  fields 
of  the  Church,  and  has  continued  to  be  fruitful. 

The  first  year  that  we  were  in  the  mission  field,  1064  people 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


37 


were  baptized,  and  that  is  about  the  average  record  of  that  mission 
throughout  the  years.  We  have  rejoiced  in  the  opportunity  to  carry 
the  Gospel  message  to  the  people  of  the  world,  for  the  glorious  privi- 
lege of  witnessing  the  transformation  of  the  human  soul  that  accepts 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  to  see  a  life  passing  from  darkness  into 
light,  into  the  light  of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  to  witness  the  influence 
and  power  of  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  upon  a  human  soul. 
It  is  a  refining  influence.  The  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father  is  to  the 
human  soul  what  sunshine  is  to  vine  and  flower,  it  brings  the  human 
soul  to  a  full  fruition,  and  that  is  one  of  the  greatest  miracles  in  all 
the  world,  the  redemption  and  glorification  of  the  human  soul  under 
the  power  and  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  glorious  message 
which  it  has  brought  to  me,  for  it  tells  me  that  I  do  not  have  a  com- 
mon origin  nor  a  common  destiny  with  the  beasts  of  the  field,  that 
birth  into  this  life  was  not  the  beginning  of  my  soul,  and  that  death 
is  not  its  oblivion.  But  it  tells  me  that  I  am  a  son  of  God,  an  eternal 
being;  that  as  a  son  of  God,  there  is  within  me  all  the  qualities,  all 
the  powers  of  my  Father  which  is  in  Heaven,  that  there  is  within  me 
the  power  to  rise  to  Godhood,  that  I  may  share  with  God,  my  Father 
in  Heaven,  forever  and  ever,  all  His  power  and  glory  and  dominion, 
through  Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

We  have  just  listened  to  President  Heber  Meeks,  former 
president  of  the  Southern  States  Mission.  We  shall  ask  President 
Wunderlich  to  be  prepared  to  be  called  this  afternoon.  We  trust 
that  the  anticipation  of  this  responsibility  will  not  interfere  with  his 
luncheon. 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  for  the  gift  of  these  beautiful 
lillies.  I  am  not  sure  who  gave  them,  but  I  think  they  came  from  the 
Berkeley  Stake  in  California. 

We  wish  also  to  announce  the  presence  of  all  the  mission  presi- 
dents laboring  on  the  North  American  continent,  and  I  believe  we 
have  the  president  of  the  Chinese  Mission.  If  he  has  not  arrived 
yet,  we  hope  he  will  be  here  before  the  close  of  the  conference. 

We  wish  to  acknowledge  also  the  presence  of  State  and  City 
officials  and  the  presence  of  the  President  of  the  University  of  Utah, 
President  of  the  Brigham  Young  University  and  the  President  of 
the  Utah  State  Agricultural  College. 

It  is  my  pleasure  also  to  announce  the  presence  of  President 
Israel  A.  Smith,  President  of  the  Reorganized  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter  Day  Saints,  and  I  believe  one  or  two  of  his  associates  or 
officials  in  that  Church.  W^e  welcome  them  and  will  be  very  glad 
to  do  anything  we  can  to  make  their  visit  a  pleasant  one,  considering, 
of  course,  the  death  of  their  kinsman,  President  George  Albert  Smith. 

We  welcome  others  who  have  joined  us  this  morning  in  this 
worship  . 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

The  Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  will  now 
sing:  "Jesu,  Word  of  God,"  conducted  by  Elder  Crawford  Gates. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Hugh  C.  Smith 
of  the  San  Fernando  Stake  of  California,  after  which  this  conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  proceed- 
ings of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  and  by  arrangement 
through  KSL  over  the  other  stations  named  at  the  beginning  of  this 
session.  The  conference  will  also  be  broadcast  over  the  television 
station  of  KSL,  channel  5. 

Important  messages  and  calls  coming  to  us  for  persons  supposed 
to  be  in  attendance  at  the  conference  will  be  announced  at  the  dis- 
missal of  this  meeting  over  the  loud  speaking  system  on  the  taber- 
nacle grounds.  Similar  messages  coming  in  will  likewise  be  broad- 
cast at  the  close,  of  each  general  session  of  the  conference. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses,  with  Elders  Newell 
Weight  and  Crawford  Gates  conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

After  the  singing  the  benediction  will  be  offered  by  President 
Hugh  C.  Smith. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  sang:  "Jesu, 
Word  of  God." 

Elder  Hugh  C.  Smith,  President  of  the  San  Fernando  Stake 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  promptly  at 
2:00  p.m.  President  David  O.  McKay  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  presided,  Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  conducted  the  services. 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  second  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  is  presiding,  and  he  has  asked  me,  as  a 
courtesy  to  me,  to  conduct  the  services  this  afternoon. 

These  services,  and  all  general  sessions  of  the  conference  will 
be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  60  North 
Main,  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


39 


The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City,  and  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  five. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  session  will  be  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  combined  choruses,  with  Elders  Clawson  Cannon  and 
Crawford  Gates  conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
combined  choruses  singing:  "O  Be  Joyful  All  Ye  Lands,"  conducted 
by  Elder  Clawson  Cannon. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Wilford  H. 
Payne  of  the  Seattle  Stake,  Washington. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  sang  "O 
Be  Joyful  All  Ye  Lands." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Wilford  H. 
Payne  of  the  Seattle  Stake. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  combined  choruses  sang:  "All 
Creatures  of  Our  God  and  King"  conducted  by  Elder  Clawson 
Cannon. 

BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  humble  as  I  stand  here  this  day 
but  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  my  association  with  his  people  and  his 
great  Church.  I  should  like  to  express  the  love  of  my  father's  family 
and  myself  and  my  wife  and  children  for  our  worthy  president, 
President  George  Albert  Smith.  He  has  been  a  great  friend  to  all 
of  us,  and  we  have  loved  him  deeply,  and  we  have  honored  him  in 
his  high  and  holy  calling  as  the  President  of  this  Church. 

What  I  say  this  afternoon,  I  pray  the  Lord  will  direct,  that  it 
will  help  to  inspire  others  to  want  to  live  nearer  to  the  Lord  and  keep 
his  commandments  and  help  to  build  his  kingdom  here  in  the  earth. 

Visit  of  Young  Lady 

A  few  weeks  ago,  a  young  lady  phoned  me  for  an  appointment; 
and  when  she  came  to  the  office,  she  sat  there  and  cried  for  a  little 
while,  and  then  she  said:  "I  guess  I'm  jittery." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "that's  all  right."  Then  when  she  had  com- 
posed herself,  she  said,  "Bishop,  what  is  there  for  the  young  people 
today?  We  have  war.  They  are  taking  all  the  boys;  it  looks  like 
another  great  war  is  ahead  of  us.  What  do  we  young  people  have 
to  live  for?" 

I  looked  at  her  for  a  few  minutes  and  said,  "Have  you  ever 
thought  of  the  other  side  of  the  story?" 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

She  said,  "What  side?" 

"Well,"  I  said,  "you  remember  the  story  of  the  two  buckets 
that  went  down  in  the  well;  as  the  one  came  up,  it  said,  'This  is 
surely  a  cold  and  dreary  world.  No  matter  how  many  times  I  come 
up  full,  I  always  have  to  go  down  empty?.'  Then  the  other  bucket 
laughed  and  said,  'With  me  it  is  different.  No  matter  how  many 
times  I  go  down  empty,  I  always  come  up  full.'  " 

I  said,  "Have  you  ever  stopped  to  realize  that  of  all  the  millions 
of  our  Father's  children,  you  are  one  of  the  most  favored?  You 
are  privileged  to  live  in  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times 
that  the  prophets  of  old  have  looked  forward  to,  when  there  is  more 
revealed  truth  upon  the  earth  than  there  has  ever  been  in  any  other 
dispensation  of  the  world's  history,  and  where  we  enjoy  blessings 
and  comforts  of  life  that  kings  did  not  enjoy  a  few  years  ago.  Have 
you  ever  stopped  to  think  of  that  side  of  the  story?" 

And  before  she  left,  she  decided  that  probably  it  wasn't  as  cold 
and  dreary  a  world,  after  all,  as  it  might  be. 

I  said,  "You  just  go  on,  and  live  right,  and  don't  you  lose  your 
courage,  and  don't  think  that  life  isn't  worth  while  and  isn't  worth 
living.  Whether  you  live  or  whether  you  die  or  whether  you  are 
permitted  to  live  a  long  life  or  a  short  life  isn't  going  to  be  the  thing 
that  is  going  to  determine  the  success  or  failure  of  your  life;  it's  how 
you  live.  And  if  we  only  live  right,  it  will  not  matter  whether  the 
time  is  short  or  long;  we  won't  have  to  worry  much  about  it." 

Signs  of  the  Times 

As  I  thought  about  that  conversation,  I  thought  of  the  words 
of  the  Savior.  On  one  occasion,  the  Pharisees  and  the  Sadducees 
came  to  him,  and  tempting  him,  asked  him  to  show  them  a  sign  from 
heaven.    And  Jesus  answering  said  unto  them, 

.  .  .  When  it  is  evening,  ye  say,  It  will  be  fair  weather:  for  the  sky 
is  red. 

And  in  the  morning,  It  will  be  foul  weather  today:  for  the  sky  is 
red  and  lowring.  O  ye  hypocrites,  ye  can  discern  the  face  of  the  sky; 
but  can  ye  not  discern  the  signs  of  the  times?  (Matt.  16:2-3.) 

If  the  world  could  discern  the  signs  of  the  times,  it  would  not 
be  difficult  for  them  to  understand  that  the  God  of  Israel  has  set  his 
hand  to  do  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder  among  his  people  in 
the  earth  and  that  there  is  a  kingdom  established  that  is  ultimately 
destined  to  fill  the  whole  earth.  And  it  will  do  it  because  it  is  God's 
work  and  not  the  work  of  man. 

While  I  was  president  of  the  Southern  States  Mission,  one  of 
our  missionaries  wrote  in  from  Florida  and  said,  "President  Rich- 
ards, I  have  been  reading  about  the  signs  of  the  coming  of  the 
Lord."  He  said,  "When  the  sun  darkens  and  the  moon  ceases  to 
give  its  light  and  the  stars  fall  from  heaven,  everybody  will  know 
that  he  is  coming." 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


41 


And  I  wrote  back  and  said,  "Probably  they  will  know.  The 
newspapers  might  announce  some  great  phenomenon  in  the  heavens, 
misplacement  of  planets,  that  have  caused  this  consternation,  and 
scientists  will  have  their  explanation  to  make  of  it,  and  unless  they 
have  faith  in  the  Living  God,  unless  as  Jesus  said,  they  can  read  the 
signs  of  the  times,  they  may  not  know  anything  about  what  is  go- 
ing on  in  the  world. 

"Why,"  I  said,  "if  the  inhabitants  of  this  earth  had  the  ability 
and  the  power  to  read  the  signs  of  the  times,  they  would  know  that 
already  the  Lord  has  given  far  more  than  the  darkening  of  the  sun 
or  obscuring  the  light  of  the  moon  or  causing  the  stars  to  fall  from 
heaven,  for  what  he  has  accomplished  in  the  establishment  of  his 
kingdom  in  the  earth  in  these  latter  days,  and  the  unseen  power  oper- 
ating in  the  world  for  the  accomplishment  of  his  purposes,  are  great- 
er signs  than  any  of  these  phenomena  that  we  read  about — the 
signs  of  his  coming." 

Gathering  of  Israel 

Now,  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that  I  know  God  has 
set  his  hand  to  gather  scattered  Israel,  just  as  Moroni  told  the  Proph- 
et Joseph,  as  part  of  this  work,  before  there  was  any  organization 
of  the  Church,  before  there  was  any  priesthood  or  power  to  officiate 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord. 

The  Angel  Moroni  told  the  Prophet  Joseph  that,  quoting  the 
words  of  Isaiah,  the  Lord  should  gather  scattered  Israel  and  bring  in 
the  dispersed  of  Judah  and  set  up  an  ensign  for  the  nations.  Well, 
hasn't  he  done  it?  Let  us  consider  what  has  happened  here  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains  as  a  part  of  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises 
the  Lord  has  made  through  his  prophets  of  old:  how  he  should  cause 
the  waters  to  flow  down  from  the  high  places  where  it  has  been 
reservoired  in  these  mountains,  how  the  rivers  should  flow  in  the 
deserts  (and  if  you  go  up  through  Idaho  and  see  those  great  canals 
out  of  that  Snake  River,  you  will  see  that  those  canals  are  larger 
than  the  average  rivers  you  see  in  the  world),  and  how  the  waters 
should  spring  up  in  the  dry  places.  When  I  was  in  Arizona  recently, 
I  saw  pipes  at  least  twenty  inches  in  diameter  running  day  and 
night,  all  the  time,  full  of  water,  and  as  I  saw  them,  I  said  to  myself, 
this  is  what  the  prophets  saw  when  the  Lord  declared  through  their 
mouths  that  he  would  turn  the  wilderness  and  make  it  to  blossom 
as  the  rose.   And  we  are  living  here  in  that  day. 

Prophecies  Being  Fulfilled 

And  then  he  said  that  he  would  cause  the  daughters  of  Zion 
to  come  up  and  sing  in  the  heights  of  Zion,  and  where  in  all  the 
world  is  there  anything  to  compare  with  what  has  gone  out  of  this 
tabernacle  from  the  heights  of  Zion,  week  after  week,  for  these 
twenty-odd  years  as  the  Tabernacle  Choir  has  broadcast  to  the 
world? 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

Where  could  you  pick  a  group  out  of  any  other  school  like  this 
group  that  is  here  today?  (I'm  referring  to  the  mixed  chorus  from 
the  Brigham  Young  University  furnishing  the  music  for  this  session 
of  conference.) 

God  bless  the  youth  of  Zion.  They  are  following  in  the  foot- 
steps of  their  parents.  They  love  the  Church,  and  they  have  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  it,  I  know,  through  my  association  with  these 
young  people. 

And  then  read  the  words  of  Isaiah,  where  he  saw  the  house  of 
the  Lord  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains  in  the  last  days, 
and  he  saw  that  all  nations  should  flow  unto  it,  and  they  would  say: 

.  .  .  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the 
house  of  the  God  of  Jacob;  and  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways,  and  we  will 
walk  in  his  paths.  ( Isaiah  2:3) 

Has  that  ever  happened  in  this  world  before?  And  if  the  Lord 
is  about  to  come,  as  he  has  indicated  that  he  would  in  these  latter 
days,  in  the  establishment  of  his  kingdom,  should  we  not  have  a  ful- 
filment of  these  promises?  And  then  Isaiah  goes  on  to  tell  us  when 
that  time  would  be,  because  he  adds: 

And  he  shall  judge  among  the  nations,  and  shall  rebuke  many  people: 
and  they  shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares,  and  their  spears  into 
pruninghooks:  nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall 
they  learn  war  any  more.  (Ibid.,  2:4.) 

Ever  since  I  was  a  small  boy,  I  have  thrilled  every  time  I  have 
heard  the  words  spoken  to  John  upon  the  Isle  of  Patmos  when  the 
voice  from  heaven  said,  "Come  up  hither  and  I  will  shew  thee  things 
which  must  be  hereafter."  (Rev.  4:1.)  Then  John  said: 

And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven,  having  the 
everlasting  gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to 
every  nation,  and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God,  and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the 
hour  of  his  judgment  is  come.  (Ibid.,  14:6-7.) 

I  have  always  understood  that  the  coming  of  this  angel  with 
the  everlasting  gospel,  and  there  can  be  no  other,  should  precede 
the  great  judgments  of  the  Lord. 

Signs  of  Second  Coming 

You  will  remember,  when  Jesus  was  upon  the  Mount  of  Olives, 
his  disciples  came  to  him,  and  he  told  them  how  the  temple  should 
be  broken  down,  that  there  should  not  be  one  stone  left  upon  an- 
other.   Then  they  said, 

Tell  us,  when  shall  these  things  be?  and  what  shall  be  the  sign  of  thy 
coming,  and  of  the  end  of  the  world?  (Matt.  24:3.) 

He  proceeded  to  tell  them  of  the  wars  and  destruction  that 
should  come  upon  the  nations,  and  that  there  should  be  tribulations 
such  as  had  not  been  known  from  the  beginning  of  the  world  and 
should  not  be  known  until  the  end. 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


43 


Those  of  us  who  know  of  the  numbers  who  were  killed  during 
the  last  world  war  know  that  we  have  lived  in  the  day  when  tribula- 
tions have  come  to  this  world  the  like  of  which  the  world  has  never 
known  from  the  beginning  of  time.  Of  course,  we  do  not  know  just 
what  the  end  is  going  to  be,  or  whether  we  have  reached  that  end 
or  not.    As  another  sign,  the  Savior  made  this  statement: 

And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom  shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
for  a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then  shall  the  end  come.  (Ibid.,  24:14.) 


A  friend  of  mine  sent  me  a  newspaper  clipping  from  Los  An- 
geles the  other  day.  It  gives  a  report  of  the  growth  of  the  churches. 
It  goes  on  to  say,  "The  Mormon  Church,  devoting  a  great  deal  of 
effort  to  the  missionary  field,  is  one  of  the  fastest  growing  orders  in 
the  world" — not  just  in  the  Rocky  Mountains — but  in  the  world. 
How  could  the  gospel  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  witness 
unto  all  nations  before  the  end  should  come,  without  a  system  of  hav- 
ing it  preached  such  as  the  great  missionary  system  of  this  Church. 
To  me  it  is  one  of  the  most  marvelous  things  this  world  has  ever 
produced.  To  think  that  the  Church  can  send  missionaries  by  the 
thousands,  and  they  don't  have  to  be  paid  for  going! 

One  sister  came  into  my  office  a  few  weeks  ago  for  me  to  in- 
terview her  missionary  boy,  and  she  said:  "Bishop,  I  have  a  son  in 
Switzerland.  I  have  a  daughter  in  the  Great  Lakes  Mission.  Here's 
my  last  boy."  She  was  not  very  well  clad.  And  I  looked  at  her  and 
said,  "Sister,  can  you  do  it?" 

She  replied:  "We  will  make  it  some  way." 

That  is  the  kind  of  faith  that  is  going  to  carry  the  gospel  mes- 
sage to  every  land  and  every  clime.  And  that  kind  of  faith  has  been 
in  this  Church  from  the  very  beginning,  and  it  will  continue  because 
it  is  God's  work,  and  that  unseen  power  that  motivates  it  will  con- 
tinue to  carry  it  on. 


When  you  read  an  article  such  as  the  one  I  just  quoted  from 
the  newspaper  in  Los  Angeles,  it  is  not  difficult  for  you  to  under- 
stand what  Daniel  saw  when  he  interpreted  Nebuchadnezzar's 
dream,  when  he  saw  that  the  God  of  heaven  in  the  last  days  should 
set  up  a  kingdom,  like  a  little  stone  cut  out  of  the  mountain  without 
hands,  that  should  roll  forth  and  fall  upon  the  kingdoms  of  this  world, 
and  they  should  all  be  destroyed,  and  the  little  stone  should  become 
as  a  great  mountain  and  fill  the  whole  earth. 


upon  eternal  truth! 

And  God  can  plant  in  the  hearts  of  his  children,  for  he  created 
the  feelings  of  the  human  soul,  a  willingness  to  preach  the  truth  until 
it  shall  ultimately  triumph  over  all  the  kingdoms  of  this  world. 


Missionary  System 


Nebuchadnezzar's  Dream 


Because  it  is  builded 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Dag 

In  Florida,  one  of  our  missionary  boys  preached  on  that  subject 
in  one  of  our  meetings.  At  the  close  of  the  meeting  I  stood  at  the 
door  to  shake  hands  with  the  people,  and  a  minister  of  the  gospel 
came  up  and  introduced  himself  to  me. 

He  said,  "You  don't  mean  to  say  that  you  think  that  little  stone 
is  the  Mormon  Church,  do  you?" 

I  said,  "Why  not?" 

He  said,  "It  couldn't  be." 

"Well,  why  couldn't  it?" 

He  said,  "Well,  you  can't  have  a  kingdom  without  a  king.  And 
you  don't  have  a  king,  so  you  haven't  a  kingdom." 

"Oh,"  I  said,  "my  friend,  you  didn't  read  quite  far  enough.  You 
just  read  the  seventh  chapter  of  Daniel,  and  there  you  will  see  that 
Daniel  saw  one  like  the  Son  of  man  coming  in  the  clouds  of  heaven, 
and  there  was  given  him  dominion  and  glory  and  a  kingdom,  that 
all  people,  nations,  and  languages  should  serve  him.  Now,"  I  said, 
"tell  me,  how  is  a  kingdom  going  to  be  given  to  him  when  he  comes 
in  the  clouds  of  heaven  if  there  is  no  kingdom  prepared  for  him? 
Maybe  you  would  like  to  know  what  is  going  to  become  of  that  king- 
dom. And  if  you  will  read  a  little  farther,  you  will  see  that  Daniel 
said:  'But  the  Saints  of  the  Most  High  shall  take  the  kingdom,  and 
possess  the  kingdom  for  ever.'  And  as  if  that  were  not  quite  long 
enough,  Daniel  adds,  'even  forever  and  ever.'  " 

That  is  what  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  working  for.  That  is 
the  work  they  have  to  do.  That  is  the  blessing  the  Lord  has  in  store 
for  them.  And  there  is  no  power  under  heaven  that  can  stop  it 
growing  because  it  is  his  kingdom,  and  he  will  see  it  on  to  its  ulti- 
mate destiny.  It  is  the  only  time  in  the  history  of  the  world  that  God 
has  set  a  work  afoot  with  a  promise  decreed  that  it  should  ultimately 
subdue  all  the  powers  and  the  kingdoms  of  this  world  and  should 
stand  forever. 

Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times 

My  time  is  gone.  You  add  to  this,  in  your  own  thinking,  the 
coming  of  Elijah,  the  prophet,  before  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of 
the  Lord  should  come,  because  the  whole  earth  was  to  be  utterly 
wasted  at  the  coming  of  the  Lord  if  Elijah  failed  to  come.  Then 
add  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  companion  volume 
of  scripture  which  the  Lord  promised  he  would  join  to  the  Bible  and 
make  them  one  in  his  hands.  Then  remember  Paul's  declaration  that 
the  Lord  had  made  known  the  mysteries  of  his  will,  that  in  the  Dis- 
pensation of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  he  might  gather  together  in  one 
all  things  in  Christ,  both  which  are  in  heaven  and  which  are  on 
earth;  even  in  him.  There  has  never  been  a  program  to  accomplish 
that  objective  in  the  history  of  the  world,  so  far  as  our  records  indi- 
cate, until  we  had  the  coming  of  Eliah  with  his  great  sealing  power 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


45 


of  binding  the  dead  that  have  gone  beyond,  as  Paul  said,  "for  they 
without  us  cannot  be  made  perfect,  nor  we  without  them." 

Now,  brothers  and  sisters,  if  your  boys  and  girls  are  worried 
about  what  is  going  to  become  of  them,  just  let  them  acquire  in  the 
depths  of  their  souls  a  testimony  of  the  value  of  being  privileged  to 
live  in  this  the  Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times,  when  God 
literally  has  set  his  hand  to  do  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  as 
he  promised  to  do,  and  then  let  us  not  be  like  the  hypocrites,  "Ye  can 
discern  the  face  of  the  sky;  but  can  ye  not  discern  the  signs  of  the 
times?" 

God  help  us  to  understand  the  signs  of  the  times,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  pray  for  the  inspiration  of  heaven  and  your  faith  and  prayers, 
my  brothers  and  sisters,  as  I  stand  before  you  this  afternoon.  My 
soul  has  been  subdued  and  my  heart  made  tender  through  the  pass- 
ing of  our  great  leader,  President  George  Albert  Smith.  I  have 
mingled  feelings  of  humility,  sadness,  and  gratitude,  at  the  passing 
of  a  prophet  of  God.  All  Israel,  I  am  sure,  has  been  weeping.  And 
yet,  back  of  it  all  has  been  a  feeling  of  thanksgiving  for  the  life  of 
this  great  man. 

The  Lord  said  in  this  dispensation: 

Thou  shalt  live  together  in  love,  insomuch  that  thou  shalt  weep 
for  the  loss  of  them  that  die,  ...  (D.  &  C.  42:45.) 

And  so  it  is  fitting  that  we  should  have  sadness  in  our  hearts  and 
should  weep  at  the  passing  of  one  we  love,  and  one  whom  the  Lord 
loves  and  has  magnified.  He  was  a  man  without  guile,  and  as 
President  McKay  said  this  morning,  with  Christlike  attributes. 

"A  Real  Man" 

Since  Wednesday  night  there  have  been  going  through  my 
heart  and  through  my  mind,  these  lines  under  the  caption,  "A  Real 
Man": 

Men  are  of  two  kinds,  and  he 
Was  of  the  kind  I'd  like  to  be. 
Some  preach  their  virtues,  and  a  few 
Express  their  lives  by  what  they  do. 
That  sort  was  he.  No  flowery  phrase 
Or  glibly  spoken  words  of  praise 
Won  friends  for  him.  He  wasn't  cheap 
Or  shallow,  but  his  course  ran  deep, 
And  it  was  pure.  You  know  the  kind. 
Not  many  in  a  life  you  find 
Whose  deeds  outrun  their  words  so  far 
That  more  than  what  they  seem,  they  are, 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Dag 

There  are  two  kinds  of  lies  as  well: 
The  kind  you  live,  the  ones  you  tell. 
Back  through  his  years  from  age  to  youth 
He  never  acted  one  untruth. 
Out  in  the  open  light  he  fought 
And  didn't  care  what  others  thought 
Nor  what  they  said  about  his  fight 
If  he  believed  that  he  was  right. 
The  only  deeds  he  ever  hid 
Were  acts  of  kindness  that  he  did 

What  speech  he  had  was  plain  and  blunt 

His  was  an  unattractive  front. 

Yet  children  loved  him;  babe  and  boy 

Played  with  the  strength  he  could  employ, 

Without  one  fear,  and  they  are  fleet 

To  sense  injustice  and  deceit. 

No  backdoor  gossip  linked  his  name 

With  any  shady  tale  of  shame. 

He  did  not  have  to  compromise 

With  evil-doers,  shrewd  and  wise, . 

And  let  them  ply  their  vicious  trade 

Because  of  some  past  escapade. 

Men  are  of  two  kinds,  and  he 

Was  of  the  kind  I'd  like  to  be. 

No  door  at  which  he  ever  knocked 

Against  his  manly  form  was  locked. 

If  ever  man  on  earth  was  free 

And  independent,  it  was  he. 

No  broken  pledge  lost  him  respect, 

He  met  all  men  with  head  erect, 

And  when  he  passed  I  think  there  went 

A  soul  to  yonder  firmament 

So  white,  so  splendid,  and  so  fine 

It  came  almost  to  God's  design. 

—Edgar  A.  Guest 
(Used  by  kind  permission  of  the  author.  Copyright,  Detroit  Free  Press.) 

Tribute  to  President  Smith 

God  bless  the  memory  of  President  George  Albert  Smith.  I 
am  grateful  beyond  my  words  of  expression  for  the  close  associa- 
tion which  I  have  had  with  him  in  the  last  few  years.  I  am  grate- 
ful that  my  family  has  lived  in  the  same  ward  and  has  come  under 
the  benign  influence  of  his  sweet  spirit.  I  shall  never  cease  to  be 
grateful  for  the  visits  he  made  to  my  home  while  I  was  serving  as  a 
humble  missionary  in  the  nations  of  war-torn  Europe  at  the  end  of 
World  War  II.  Particularly  am  I  thankful  for  a  visit  in  the  still  of 
the  night  when  our  little  one  lay  at  death's  door.  Without  any  an- 
nouncement, President  Smith  found  time  to  come  into  that  home 
and  place  his  hands  upon  the  head  of  that  little  one,  held  in  her 
mother's  arms  as  she  had  been  for  many  hours,  and  promise  her 
complete  recovery.  This  was  President  Smith,  he  always  had  time 
to  help,  particularly  those  who  were  sick,  those  who  needed  him 
most. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


47 


Last  Monday  evening  at  the  Lion  House,  there  was  held  a 
party  for  those  who  had  served  on  the  general  boards  of  M.I.A.  in 
years  past  under  the  leadership  of  Brother  George  Q.  Morris  and 
Sister  Lucy  Grant  Cannon.  It  was  to  have  been  an  April  Fool 
party,  a  fun  party,  but  the  gathering  turned  out  to  be  a  spontaneous 
meeting  of  tribute  to  the  man  who,  probably  as  much  as  any  other 
who  has  ever  lived,  inspired  and  loved  the  youth  of  Zion.  I  wish 
you  could  have  heard  the  tribute  paid  by  dear  Sister  Ruth  May  Fox, 
ninety-seven  years  of  age,  as  she  stood  on  her  feet  and  bore  testi- 
mony to  the  worth  of  President  Smith  and  the  inspiration  which  he 
has  been  to  the  youth  of  Zion  through  all  the  days  of  his  life. 

I  wish  you  could  have  sat  with  me  the  past  two  years  in  close 
association  with  the  National  Executive  Board  of  the  Boy  Scouts  of 
America  and  heard  leaders  of  industry,  financiers,  business  execu- 
tives, and  leaders  in  the  professions  speak  of  the  fine  life  of  Presi- 
dent George  Albert  Smith.  Their  first  words  after  greeting  were 
usually,  "How  is  my  good  friend,  George  Albert  Smith?"  Many  of 
them  would  add,  "A  man  of  God,  if  there  ever  was  one."  Then  as 
we  parted  they  often  said,  "Take  my  love  and  greetings  to  President 
George  Albert  Smith."  He  loved  all  men.  They  reciprocated  that 
love.  What  an  example  he  has  set  for  us  all,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  in  this  spirit  of  love,  fellowship,  and  brotherhood! 

Saving  of  Souls 

His  great  objective  has  been  to  help  save  the  souls  of  the  chil- 
dren of  men.   You  remember,  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph: 

Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is  great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeemer  suffered  death  in  the  flesh; 
wherefore  he  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men,  that  all  men  might  repent  and 
come  unto  him.  (D.  &  C.  18:10-11.) 

The  Lord  said  to  Moses: 

For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the 
immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man.  (P.  of  G.  P.,  Moses  1 :39.) 

This  is  our  first  interest  as  a  Church — to  build  character,  to 
save  and  exalt  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men.  President  Smith  was 
interested  in  this  project  above  all  others.  He  realized  that  in  the 
youth  of  Zion  there  must  be  established  real  character  as  the  one 
thing  they  can  take  with  them  into  the  world  to  come;  that  they 
must  prepare  themselves  here  for  exaltation.  I  am  grateful  that  he 
had  faith  in  them.  I  am  grateful  for  the  inspiration  that  he  brought 
to  the  youth  of  Zion.  Yes,  we  do  have  faith  in  them.  We  have  faith 
that  they  will  carry  on,  that  they  will  measure  up,  that  they  will 
maintain  the  standards  of  the  past,  the  standards  of  their  parents 
and  their  grandparents.  It  often  would  grieve  President  Smith  when 
he  would  hear  people  discredit  the  youth  of  the  Church  and  suggest 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dan 


at  one  time  that  what  they  need  is  a  few  more  models  and  not  so 
many  critics. 

I  have  faith  in  the  youth  of  Israel,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  in- 
spired in  large  measure  by  President  Smith.  I  have  seen  them  in 
action,  as  you  have.  I  rejoice  to  see  our  missionaries  go  out  into  the 
world,  to  meet  them  on  the  street  corners  and  hear  them  bearing 
testimony  to  the  truth  of  this  great  latter-day  work.  I  thrill  as  I  see 
them  in  action  on  the  basketball  floor.  I  thrilled  with  them  as  they 
received  what  was  probably  the  last  telegram  which  President  Smith 
sent,  which  went  to  our  B.  Y.  U.  basketball  boys  back  in  Madison 
Square  Garden.  I  am  stirred  as  I  see  our  boys  out  in  the  service 
of  their  country,  maintaining  the  standards  of  the  Church  and  living 
the  gospel  in  the  face  of  temptation,  sin,  and  evil  all  around  them. 


I  recall  an  incident  which  occurred  shortly  after  World  War  II. 
With  the  president  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission,  I  was  mak- 
ing a  tour  of  that  mission,  and  we  were  up  in  Alaska.  While  there 
we  visited  one  of  the  camps  and  held  a  meeting  with  our  servicemen 
in  the  little  army  chapel.  I  noted  as  the  service  progressed  that 
sitting  down  in  the  far  corner  of  the  building  at  a  table  was  a 
Protestant  chaplain.  Apparently,  he  was  trying  to  give  the  impres- 
sion that  he  was  working,  but  we  could  tell  he  was  listening  to 
every  word  that  was  said  in  that  service.  This  fine  group  of  service- 
men led  the  singing,  offered  the  prayers,  administered  the  sacred 
emblems  and  bore  testimony.  As  we  finished  our  meeting  and  were 
leaving  the  building,  I  went  over  to  the  chaplain  to  express  grati- 
tude for  the  use  of  the  building.  As  I  did  so,  he  said  in  substance, 
"I  wonder  if  you  realize  the  kind  of  young  men  you  have  represented 
here  in  this  camp.  They  are  truly  a  marvelous  group  of  boys." 
Then  he  went  on  to  say,  "They  don't  need  a  chaplain;  any  one  of 
them  could  take  my  place."  I  thanked  him  for  the  compliment  and 
started  leaving  when  he  added,  "One  other  thing.  I  have  two  boys 
of  my  own — eleven  and  thirteen — and  you  know,  I  couldn't  wish 
anything  better  for  them  than  that  when  they  grow  a  little  older, 
they  become  members  of  your  Church  and  develop  into  the  kind  of 
young  manhood  I  have  seen  represented  here  in  your  group  of 
Mormon  boys." 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  my  conviction  that  the  finest 
group  of  young  people  that  this  world  has  ever  known  anything 
about  has  been  born  under  the  covenant  into  the  homes  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  parents.  I  have  a  feeling  that  in  many  cases  at  least  these 
choice  spirits  have  been  held  back  to  come  forth  in  this  day  and  age 
when  the  gospel  is  upon  the  earth  in  its  fulness,  and  that  they  have 
great  responsibilities  in  establishing  the  kingdom.    I  presume  that 


Comments  of  Chaplain 


Faith  in  Youth 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


49 


no  generation  has  faced  more  serious  difficulties  than  they  face. 
They  live  in  an  age  which  seems  to  question  all  the  standards  of 
the  past,  and  which  is  discarding  many  of  those  standards.  Yes, 
they  live  in  a  period  when  even  some  spiritual  leaders,  so-called, 
point  out  that  the  question  of  smoking,  drinking,  and  carousing  has 
no  relationship  to  salvation,  that  these  are  personal  matters. 

I  have  the  conviction  that  these  young  people,  if  they  have  the 
benefit  and  blessing  of  the  full  program  of  the  Church,  are  going  to 
come  through,  in  spite  of  the  temptations,  with  colors  flying  in  a 
way  that  will  make  us  proud  of  them.  However,  they  will  need 
more  than  material  things.  They  are  going  to  need  more  than  real 
estate,  stocks  and  bonds,  life  insurance,  or  even  democracy.  They 
are  going  to  need  a  sane  spiritual  foundation,  if  they  endure,  if  they 
are  going  to  be  able  to  live  clean  and  to  maintain  the  standards  of 
the  Church.  God  expects  great  things  of  them.  He  expects  them 
to  develop  into  noble  characters,  into  good  citizens — citizens  which 
may  eventually  provide  in  part,  at  least,  the  leaven  which  may  help 
to  save  this  great  nation.  He  expects  them  to  live  clean  even  in  a 
wicked  world.  He  expects  them  to  grow  up  with  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel.  He  expects  these  young  men  to  live  so  that  they  can 
receive  the  holy  Melchizedek  Priesthood  and  so  that  eventually  they 
can  be  married  in  the  temple  of  God  to  worthy  companions  for  time 
and  eternity.  He  also  expects  them  to  know  the  glorious  blessings 
of  honorable  parenthood  and  eventually  to  be  exalted  in  the  ce- 
lestial kingdom  of  God. 

Church  Program 

I  am  convinced,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  have  in  the 
Church  the  finest  program  available  anywhere  to  help  bring  about 
these  objectives,  if  our  children  are  only  put  in  touch  with  this  pro- 
gram. I  am  thinking  now  of  the  blessings  which  come  to  our  chil- 
dren in  the  full  and  rich  program  of  the  Primary.  They  have  just 
held  a  convention  here  on  this  block.  Are  we  missing  any  of  our 
children?  Is  the  Primary  program  reaching  them?  And  the  same 
with  the  Sunday  School.  Are  our  children  in  Sunday  School?  Are 
they  being  taught  the  gospel  in  the  Sunday  School  classes?  Are 
our  boys  and  girls  attending  M.I.A.?  Are  our  boys  receiving  and 
enjoying  the  rich  blessings  of  the  program  provided  through  the 
scouting  and  Explorer  program?  Are  they  being  ordained  to  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  are  they  active  in  the  rich  program  which 
is  provided? 

Scouting 

I  know  that  the  one  great  reason  why  President  Smith  has  been 
so  active  for  many  years  in  the  scouting  program  is  the  fact  that  the 
ideals  of  scouting  follow  closely  the  ideals  of  the  Church.  The  scout- 
ing program  is  not  a  substitute  for  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  program. 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Dag 

The  most  important  possession  that  a  boy  can  have  is  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  But  scouting  is  a  supplementary,  a  complementary  pro- 
gram. It  works  hand  in  hand  with  the  program  of  the  Primary, 
Sunday  School,  and  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  is  an  important 
and  vital  part  of  our  program  for  our  boys. 

Scouting  is  dedicated  to  a  four-fold  program:  First,  it  teaches 
the  boy  his  duty  to  God — reverence,  observance  of  the  Sabbath,  and 
the  maintenance  of  the  spiritual  standards  and  ideals  of  his  Church. 
Second,  it  teaches  duty  to  country — true  patriotism — a  love  for  the 
constitution,  for  our  free  institutions  and  our  American  way  of  life. 
I  was  thrilled  as  I  stood  in  Valley  Forge  last  summer  facing  over 
forty-seven  thousand  representative  boys  as  they  saw  depicted  be- 
fore their  eyes  that  terrible  winter  of  1777-8  when  Washington  and 
his  bedraggled  forces  all  but  perished  there  in  Valley  Forge.  These 
boys'  hearts  were  touched  as  they  saw  the  father  of  their  country 
leave  his  troops  and  go  off  into  the  trees  in  the  snow  and  bow  in 
humble  prayer  before  the  Almighty  that  this  young  nation  might  be 
preserved.  This  was  part  of  the  two-year  Boy  Scout  theme  to 
"Strengthen  the  Arm  of  Liberty."  Third,  it  teaches  the  value  of 
service  to  others — willing,  unselfish  service,  and  that  the  greatest 
among  them  must  be  the  servant  of  all — symbolized  by  the  "good 
turn."  Fourth,  it  teaches  duty  to  self — that  they  must  keep  them- 
selves physically  strong,  mentally  awake,  and  morally  straight. 
They  must  be  prepared  for  any  eventuality  to  serve  themselves, 
their  Church,  and  their  country. 

There  is  held  up  before  them  the  Scout  oath  and  the  Scout 
laws,  which  focus  attention  on  those  things  that  are  worth  while — 
that  a  Scout  must  be  trustworthy,  loyal,  helpful,  friendly,  courteous, 
kind,  obedient,  cheerful,  thrifty,  brave,  clean,  reverent.  To  be  a 
good  scout  he  must  be  faithful  in  his  religious  duties.  Scouting  pro- 
vides a  program  of  training  and  experience.  It  is  a  program  for 
character  development.  It  is  a  supplementary  educational  program, 
a  program  of  citizenship  training  and  vocational  exploration.  Many 
boys  have  found  their  vocations  through  this  program — through  the 
111  merit  badges  which  are  concentrated  courses  in  vocational  guid- 
ance in  fifteen  different  active  fields.  Scouting  teaches  boys  the  crafts 
and  the  skills  and  to  do  something  useful  with  their  hands. 

And  so,  in  view  of  the  richness  of  the  scouting  program  and 
the  fact  that  these  ideals  coincide  with  the  ideals  of  the  Church, 
President  Smith  has  urged  our  full  support  in  these  words:  "It  is 
my  desire  to  see  scouting  extended  to  every  boy  in  the  Church." 
Under  his  leadership  and  inspiration  the  Church  has  moved  forward 
to  an  enviable  position  with  something  over  2290  scouting  and  Ex- 
plorer units,  an  increase  of  180  during  this  past  calendar  year.  But 
there  are  still  approximately  fifteen  percent  of  our  boys  who  are  not 
enjoying  the  benefits  of  the  scouting  and  Explorer  program. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


51 


Leadership  Needed 

One  of  our  great  needs,  of  course,  is  effective  leadership.  Some 
of  our  boys  are  not  being  reached  by  this  program.  Some  are  not 
being  reached  by  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  program.  Some  of  them 
are  missing  the  benefits  and  blessings  of  Primary.  It  is  largely  a 
question  of  leadership.  Boys  want  the  scouting  program,  we  want 
them  to  have  it;  and  if  we  have  the  right  kind  of  leadership  through 
real  boys'  men,  they'll  have  it,  enoy  it,  and  receive  the  blessings 
which  come  from  the  program.  The  responsibility  rests  with  the 
priesthood — stake  presidencies  and  bishoprics — to  see  that  this 
leadership  is  provided  and  that  every  boy  is  reached. 

And  so,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  we  have  a  well-rounded  pro- 
gram for  the  youth  of  the  Church.  And  we  are  not  dealing  with 
ordinary  young  people.  We  are  working  with  choice  spirits  who 
need  the  full  Church  program.  We  want  them  to  have  the  benefit 
of  this  program  in  its  fulness,  that  they  might  develop  into  the  kind 
of  young  men  and  young  women  which  the  Lord  would  have  them 
become.  Of  course,  these  programs  are  not  ends  in  themselves. 
They  are  tools.  They  are  a  means  to  an  end.  The  end  is  the  salva- 
tion and  exaltation  of  God's  children. 

But  these  programs  are  not  optional  programs.  They  are  the 
youth  program  of  the  Church,  approved  by  the  leadership  thereof. 
May  God  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  as  leaders  in  Israel 
we  may  have  the  power  and  the  inspiration  to  make  our  young  people 
want  to  enjoy  the  full  program  of  the  Church  offered  through  the 
Sunday  School,  the  Primary,  the  M.I.A.,  and  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood program,  that  they  might  eventually  meet  the  expectations  of 
their  parents,  their  Church  leaders,  and  our  Heavenly  Father.  God 
bless  us  to  this  end.  God  bless  the  youth  of  Israel  everywhere,  that 
they  may  grow  and  develop  into  sterling  characters,  faithful  and 
true  to  this  great  latter-day  work,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  congregation  and  the  Combined  Choruses  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  A  Foun- 
dation." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Brethren  and  Sisters:  To  stand  in  this  pulpit  to  address  the 
many  thousands  who  assemble  here  and  the  countless  thousands 
who  listen  to  the  radio  broadcasts  is  to  be  greatly  humbled  by  a  keen 
feeling  of  heavy  responsibility  to  such  a  vast  audience  to  say  some- 
thing that  will  be  worth  listening  to.  I  am  comforted,  however,  in 
my  humility,  by  the  thought  that  Mormonism,  the  restored  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  is  so  fraught  with  precious  truths  that  any  of  these 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

we  may  talk  about  are  worthy  of  the  attention  of  every  one  of  us — 
of  every  normal  human  being.  But  are  not  all  Latter-day  Saints 
familiar  with  these  truths,  having  previously  heard  them  discussed 
many  times?  Yes,  this  may  be  the  case,  but  if  they  love  them,  a 
restatement  or  discussion  will  be  listened  to  with  more-or-less  satis- 
faction.  At  least  this  is  my  experience.    I  hope  it  is  yours. 

A  Peculiar  People 

Mormonism,  as  I  have  just  defined  it,  is  not  a  Protestant,  Cath- 
olic, Jewish,  or  any  other  faith  as  taught  by  other  churches.  It  is 
characterized  by  many  teachings  and  doctrines  not  accepted  by  other 
churches.  This  fact  is  sometimes  indicated  by  the  statement  that  we 
are  a  peculiar  people — something  of  which  we  are  proud  yet  very 
humble  and  grateful  for;  for  we  believe  and  testify  that  these  charac- 
istic  teachings  are  absolutely  true  because  they  have  come  to  us 
through  visitations  and  revelations  from  heavenly  sources — from 
God  and  his  messengers. 

It  is  trite  to  say  that  Mormonism  is  an  everyday  religion  be- 
cause it  requires  its  adherents  to  implement  in  their  daily  lives  the 
teaching  that  faith  without  works  is  dead — as  the  Apostle  James 
stated  it;  they  must  practice  all  those  virtues  that  will  make  them 
Saints  in  very  deed.  Some  of  these  virtues,  however,  are  considered 
basic  to  an  acceptable  Christian  life  by  all  Christian  churches.  A 
statement  of  some  of  these  is  found  in  articles  eleven,  twelve,  and 
thirteen  of  our  faith  and  are  as  follows: 

"11.  We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshiping  Almighty  God  ac- 
cording to  the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience,  and  allow  all  men 
the  same  privilege,  let  them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may" 
— an  ideal  statement  of  religious  tolerance,  something  much  needed 
today  but  denied  to  millions  of  human  beings  in  the  past. 

"12.  We  believe  in  being  subject  to  kings,  presidents,  rulers, 
and  magistrates,  in  obeying,  honoring,  and  sustaining  the  law." 
Loyalty  to  country  and  obedience  to  constitutional  laws  are  require- 
ments for  full  fellowship  in  our  Church. 

"13.  We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  vir- 
tuous, and  in  doing  good  to  all  men.  .  .  . 

It  is  the  emphasis  we  place  upon  some  of  these  things — chastity, 
for  example — that  makes  our  moral  standards  higher  than  those 
maintained  by  some  other  religious  groups. 

President  George  Albert  Smith 

At  this  point  may  I  digress  a  moment  to  say  a  word  of  tribute 
to  our  greatly  beloved  departed  President,  George  Albert  Smith. 
We  have  been  friends  for  sixty-two  years.  Late  in  the  eighties 
he  and  I  were  fellow  students  during  one  year  at  the  University 
of  Deseret.    Since  that  time  I  have  been  more  or  less  closely  as- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


53 


sociated  with  him  in  Church  work.  For  several  years  we  were 
together  in  the  superintendency  of  the  Young  Men's  Mutual  Im- 
provement Association  in  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  when  the  stake  cov- 
ered the  entire  Salt  Lake  County.  I  have  said  many  times  that  I 
have  never  known  a  man  who  I  thought  tried  more  sincerely  and 
harder  to  love  everybody  than  did  George  Albert  Smith.  Not  that 
he  approved  all  people  did,  but  the  farther  off  the  beam  they  were, 
the  more  he  seemed  to  sympathize  with  them  because  of  their  great- 
er need  for  help. 

Moral  Standards 

Looking  out  into  the  world  today,  what  do  we  see  relative  to 
the  moral  standards  expressed  by  these  three  articles  of  our  faith? 
No  matter  in  what  direction  we  look,  and  not  going  beyond  the 
boundaries  of  our  own  country,  we  see  moral  conditions  are  bad, 
in  some  places  very  bad.  Wickedness  of  the  blackest  and  most 
abominable  kinds  exists  nearly  everywhere.  I  speak  of  these  things 
only  that  we  may  be  reminded  that  it  is  our  duty,  as  I  see  it,  to 
minimize  and  eliminate  indulgence  in  these  evils  among  us  insofar 
as  it  is  in  our  power.  But  is  there  not  existent  in  many  places 
among  us  a  reprehensible  indifference  and  laxity  relative  to  these 
things?  Yet  do  we  not  teach  tolerance  and  free  agency?  is  a  question 
sometimes  asked.  Why  interfere  with  other  people's  business?  This 
is  a  Satan-inspired  question.  We  certainly  are  expected  to  defend 
ourselves  against  the  marauder,  the  robber,  the  despoiler  of  the 
sanctity  of  our  homes  and  families  and  the  destroyer  of  things  we 
hold  sacred  and  dear — as  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit  of  happiness. 

Free  agency  is  a  priceless,  God-given  right  to  every  child  born 
in  mortality,  but  it  does  not  include  the  right  to  mar,  hurt,  or  destroy 
the  well-being  of  our  fellow  men.  Did  you  read  recent  newspaper 
statements  relative  to  the  existence  of  vicious  narcotic  rings  which 
specialize  in  the  teen-age  trade  and  encourage  morphine-marijuana 
parties  of  boys  and  girls  that  sometimes  turn  into  orgies?  You  have 
heard,  of  course,  of  the  countrywide  slot  machine  racket,  the  income 
of  which  amounts  annually  to  billions  of  dollars;  of  gambling  and 
horse-race  betting — these  being  other  activities  where  billions  are 
lost.  Evils  attendant  on  the  consumption  of  alcoholic  beverages 
(the  annual  cost  in  America  of  these  is  about  eight  billion  dollars) 
have  also  reached  an  enormous  magnitude.  To  these  and  many  other 
evils  are  we  not  more  or  less  indifferent? 

The  Liquor  Problem 

The  National  Safety  Council  and  other  agencies  repeatedly 
warn  that  alcohol  is  responsible  for  large  numbers  of  our  accidents, 
troubles,  sorrows,  and  deaths.  Then  why  do  we  consume  alcoholic 
beverages?  To  what  extent  is  this  indulgence  due  to  advertising? 
The  brewers  are  reportedly  doing  a  good  sales  promotion  job.  Just 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

now  they  are  hammering  at  reaching  a  consumption  of  one  hundred 
million  barrels  of  beer  a  year  and  are  looking  forward  to  120  million 
barrels.  Much  of  this  consumption  they  want  in  the  home,  for  it  is 
there  they  can  best  develop  the  use  of  beer  by  women  and  young 
people.  So  it  is  said,  brewers  are  giving  a  great  deal  of  attention  to 
the  principles  of  store-selling.  Most  beer  advertising  is  directed  to 
the  home,  exploiting  the  great  interest  in  television;  also  extensive 
use  is  made  of  the  pictures  of  young  girls  on  billboards.  This  in- 
vasion of  the  home  to  advertise  beer  by  means  of  the  radio  and  tele- 
vision has,  of  course,  met  with  vigorous  denunciation. 

What  can  we  do  about  it?  This  is  a  problem  that  every  home 
should  try  to  solve.  Let  us  not  forget  the  warning  divinely  given  us 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  "evils  and  designs  do  and  will 
exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men  in  the  last  days."  Loyalty  to 
our  doctrines  and  principles  demands  that  we  shall  be  alerted  and 
active  in  keeping  evils  and  wickedness  as  far  from  us  and  our  fellow 
men  as  we  can.  Let  us  not  forget,  but  act. 

Relations  With  Fellowmen 

There  is  another  class  of  evils  that  I  desire  to  refer  to — evils 
that  permeate  relations  with  our  fellow  men.  When  asked  by  the 
lawyer  which  is  the  great  commandment  in  the  law, 

Jesus  said  unto  him,  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy 
heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 
This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thy- 
self. (Matt.  22:37-39.) 

We  accept  another  statement  of  Jesus  as  being  another  version 
of  the  second  commandment.  It  is  as  follows: 

.  .  .  whatsoever  ye  would  that  men  should  do  to  you,  do  ye  even 
so  to  them:  for  this  is  the  law  and  the  prophets.  (Ibid.,  7:12.) 

In  this  streamlined  age  we  call  the  statement  of  this  law  The 
Golden  Rule.  This  rule  is  also  obviously  implied  in  the  thirteenth 
article  of  our  faith. 

To  what  extent  do  we  live  the  Golden  Rule  in  all  of  our  rela- 
tions with  our  fellows? 

Immediately  following  the  outbreak  of  the  Korean  war  in  June 
1950,  the  price  of  foods  and  many  other  things  began  to  go  up — 
not  that  the  cost  of  production  had  risen  so  soon.  Then  why? 
Almost  simultaneously,  or  even  before  this  in  some  cases,  a  demand 
for  an  increase  of  wages  was  made  by  the  leaders  of  some  organized 
labor  groups.  Why?  Did  the  Golden  Rule  motivate  those  respon- 
sible for  raises  in  price  of  commodities,  or  those  who  clamored  for 
increased  wages? 

Greed  and  Selfishness 

Oh,  but,  it  is  said,  the  law  of  supply  and  demand  governs  these 
things.  To  say  that  this  is  true  is  an  outrage  on  the  ordinarily  ac- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


55 


cepted  meaning  of  the  word  law  as  is  applied  to  the  phenomena  of 
nature  or  to  enactments  of  legally  constituted  human  groups  author- 
ized to  make  enactments.  To  be  plain  and  frank,  does  not  the  law 
of  supply  and  demand  mean,  as  practised  in  commercial  affairs,  "Get 
all  you  can  for  what  you  have  to  sell,  whether  it  be  commodities  or 
labor  or  services"?  And  are  not  greed  and  selfishness  among  the 
real  motivating  and  dominating  forces  operating  in  all  our  com- 
mercial affairs  whether  they  be  big  or  little,  whether  the  participants 
be  businessmen,  professional  men,  or  laboring  men? 

We  complain  of  inflation — rising  costs  that  deflate  or  lessen  the 
purchasing  power  of  the  dollar.  In  the  last  analysis  are  not  selfish- 
ness and  greed  responsible  for  inflation?  Who  in  the  U.  S.  is  in- 
jured by  inflation?  Everyone  who  has  bought  a  government  bond 
(about  eighty  million  people),  everyone  who  has  a  savings  account, 
an  insurance  policy,  or  a  pension  (at  least  one  hundred  million 
people),  everyone  who  works  for  wages  or  a  salary  that  does  not 
rise,  percentage-wise,  as  fast  as  the  cost  of  living  goes  up  (about 
sixty-two  million  people),  and  all  other  people  except  the  very  few 
who  are  paying  off  debts  incurred  years  ago.  Then  to  avoid  injur- 
ing people,  should  not  more  than  ninety-nine  percent  of  us,  even 
as  a  matter  of  self-interest,  and  more  importantly,  all  of  us  who  want 
to  be  honest  and  believe  in  the  Golden  Rule,  do  all  we  can  to  stop 
inflation? 

Our  country  is  facing  one  of  the  most  critical  periods  in  its 
history.  Selfishness  and  greed  are  tearing  it  asunder.  The  devil  is 
riding  high  and  shouting  in  Satanic  glee  at  the  utter  foolishness  dis- 
played on  all  levels,  in  all  grades  and  ranks  of  human  society. 

In  this  country  we  are  rapidly  preparing  for  war  (to  defend 
ourselves  is  perhaps  the  better  expression),  arming  ourselves  with 
the  most  destructive  means  and  implements  that  human  ingenuity 
can  devise.  The  amazing  advances  made  in  the  discovery  and  im- 
plementation of  the  forces  of  nature  are  miraculous  marvels  of  the 
modern  world.  These  are  due  to  the  achievements  of  research 
scientists  and  ingenious  inventors.  What  advances  have  we  made 
in  the  realms  of  social  science?  The  art  of  living  agreeably  with  one 
another — our  fellow  men — the  finest  of  all  human  arts,  is  still  in  its 
infancy. 

The  Golden  Rule 

How  can  the  dangers  threatening  America,  internally  and  ex- 
ternally, and  all  the  world,  for  that  matter,  be  overcome,  and  peace 
reign  everywhere  supreme?  The  answer  is  short;  it  is  simple.  Let 
every  human  being  repent  and  live  the  Golden  Rule.  This  means 
to  keep  the  two  great  commandments.  Then  the  threat  of  war  would 
vanish,  troubles  would  disappear;  wickedness  would  cease,  and 
righteousness  prevail.  There  is  not  a  sane  person  in  all  the  world 
who  can  successfully  controvert  this  truth.  Then  why  do  we  not 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

repent  and  let  the  Golden  Rule  govern  our  lives?  Who  has  the 
answer?  Mormonism  has  it;  you  have  it;  Satan  has  it,  and  he  will 
not  repent.  And  myriads  of  our  fellow  men  will  not  repent  either 
because  Satan  has  them  in  his  power.  So  peace  will  not  come  to  the 
earth  and  be  worldwide  until  Satan  is  bound.  But  the  millennium 
is  coming — the  Lord  has  said  it.  But  when  it  will  come,  no  man 
knoweth,  for  neither  the  day  nor  the  hour  has  yet  been  revealed. 

However,  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  your  duty  and  mine,  the 
duty  of  everyone  who  believes  in  God  and  his  righteous  purposes 
to  try,  try,  try  to  bring  the  Golden  Rule  into  our  lives.  This  we  can 
do  measurably  well  with  the  Lord's  help,  that  he  will  readily 
give  to  each  of  us  if  we  worthily  seek  it. 

Let  me  recite  two  actual  occurences  relative  to  the  Golden  Rule. 
Years  ago,  the  winter  in  Cache  Valley  was  long,  and  an  acute 
shortage  of  hay  resulted.  A  Church  official  was  told  by  his  farm 
manager  that  they  could  spare  several  tons  of  hay  and  that  the 
going  price  was  fifteen  dollars  a  ton.  The  manager  was  told  to  ask 
only  eight  dollars  a  ton,  that  being  the  reasonable  cost  of  pro- 
duction. I  told  of  this  occurrence  in  the  last  October  conference. 

Another  one:  Years  ago  an  eightroom  house  in  Salt  Lake  City 
was  sold  on  a  monthly  instalment  plan.  About  two  years  later  the 
purchaser  said  he  would  have  to  give  up  the  contract,  not  being 
able,  because  of  financial  reverses,  to  continue  it,  and  he  was  moving 
out  into  a  three-room  shack.  The  vendor  asked  the  man  to  estimate 
the  equity  his  two  years'  payments  had  made  in  the  house,  the 
vendor  telling  him  that  the  excess  payments  would  be  gladly  re- 
turned. The  man  insisted  that  his  monthly  payments  had  only  been 
reasonable  rent.  He  refused  to  accept  any  refunds.  Notwithstand- 
ing the  provisions  of  the  contract  to  the  contrary,  both  parties  to 
the  arrangement  were  actuated  by  the  spirit  of  the  Golden  Rule. 

Need  to  Repent 

I  said  we  have  several  characteristic  teachings  and  doctrines. 
To  these  we  are  converted,  and  we  readily  accept  them.  But  to  im- 
plement them  in  our  lives  is  something  else.  We  are  human  beings 
and  have  more  or  less  inherited  the  weaknesses  of  the  flesh  among 
which  are  unworthiness,  selfishness,  and  greed.  Further,  we  are  so 
enmeshed  in  worldly  ways  of  doing  things  in  the  conduct  of  our 
businesses  and  ways  of  making  a  living,  that  we  find  the  easiest  way 
to  get  along  is  to  do  as  the  world  does.  In  so  doing  we  may  griev- 
ously sin  by  departing  more  or  less  widely  from  the  standards  of  the 
Golden  Rule.  To  the  extent  that  we  do  this,  we  need  to  repent. 

What  have  selfishness  and  greed  done?  They  have  brought  on 
all  the  major  wars  in  history,  resulting  in  the  misery,  suffering,  and 
death  of  countless  millions  of  human  beings  and  the  loss  of  billions 
of  property  dollars.  They  have  brought  wickedness,  crime,  de- 
bauchery, loss  of  freedom,  and  slavery  to  every  part  of  the  earth. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  57 


Need  of  the  Hour 

Because  of  the  things  I  have  mentioned  and  several  others, 
this  country  is  facing  a  very  critical  situation.  What  is  the  great 
need  of  the  hour?  The  answer  of  course  is,  as  I  have  already  stated, 
repentance.  And  repentance  is  a  call  that  has  been  made  from  this 
pulpit  many,  many  times.  Current  threatening  conditions  are  not 
likely  to  improve  much  unless  more-or-less  repentance  takes  place. 
And  while  complete  repentance  may  not  be  expected  until  Satan  is 
bound,  there  is  one  source  of  trouble  that  I  think  can  be  removed, 
and  all  lovers  of  America  should  demand  its  removal — the  more-or- 
less  continuous  dispute  between  management  and  labor  relative 
to  wages,  working  conditions,  etc.  Lockouts,  strikes,  and  mass 
picketing  should  be  outlawed.  In  all  disputes  of  the  type  indicated, 
the  public  has  a  vital  interest  which  the  law  should  protect.  How  can 
this  be  done?  My  answer  is  by  compulsory  arbitration.  It  is  unlaw- 
ful for  individuals  to  settle  their  differences  by  fighting  with  fists, 
knives,  or  pistols.  Courts  are  set  up  to  which  they  may  go  for  a 
peaceful  settlement,  and  this,  even  though  the  public  may  have  no 
interest  in  the  settlement.  But  the  public  always  has  an  interest  in 
how  labor-management  disputes  are  settled.  To  settle  peacefully 
such  disputes  on  a  basis  of  what  is  fair,  right,  and  just  to  all  con- 
cerned, can  a  better  agency  be  found  than  a  qualified,  competent 
arbitration  court? 

Yes,  the  public  should  demand  that  such  courts  be  set  up. 

As  I  see  it,  if  wise,  compulsory  arbitration  courts  had  always 
been  functioning  during  the  past  dozen  years  or  so,  there  would 
have  been  but  little  if  any  inflation.  This  country  would  have 
prospered  to  a  greater  degree  than  it  has,  and  the  outlook  for 
America  would  be  much  brighter  than  it  is  today. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  who  have  covenanted  in  the  waters  of 
baptism  and  at  the  sacrament  table  to  keep  God's  commandments  are 
in  honor  bound  to  be  true  to  these  obligations.  I  pray  that  with  the 
Lord's  help  we  may  always  have  the  desire,  the  strength  and  the 
courage  to  be  true  to  our  faith.  This  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  humble,  and  also  I  feel  the  loss  of  our  beloved  President, 
just  as  you  who  are  assembled  here  feel  that  loss.  With  the  help  of 
the  Lord,  I  shall  bear  my  testimony.  I  am  very  grateful  to  the  Lord 
for  the  knowledge  that  I  have  of  the  truth  of  this  divine  work.  I 
was  baptized  when  I  was  eight  years  old.  It  was  impressed  upon 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Dag 

me  at  that  time  that  through  baptism  I  had  received  the  remission  of 
sins  and  stood  pure,  clean,  before  the  Lord.  I  had  a  sister  who  was 
very  kind,  as  all  my  sisters  were,  who  impressed  upon  my  mind  the 
need  of  keeping  myself  unspotted  from  the  world.  Her  teachings 
to  me  the  day  I  was  baptized  have  stayed  with  me  all  the  days  of 
my  life,  and  I  honor  her  memory. 

Divine  Mission  of  Prophet 

I  have  a  perfect  knowledge  of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  There  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  that  the  Lord  raised 
him  up  and  gave  him  revelation,  commandment,  opened  the  heavens 
to  him,  and  called  upon  him  to  stand  at  the  head  of  this  glorious 
dispensation.  I  am  just  as  satisfied  in  my  mind  that  in  his  youth  when 
he  went  out  to  pray  he  beheld  the  actual  presence,  stood  in  the 
actual  presence,  of  God  the  Father  and  his  son,  Jesus  Christ;  in  my 
mind  there  is  no  doubt;  I  know  this  to  be  true.  I  know  that  he  re- 
ceived later  the  visitations  from  Moroni,  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
under  the  hands  of  John  the  Baptist,  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
under  the  hands  of  Peter,  James,  and  John,  and  that  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organized  on  the  sixth  day  of 
April  1830  by  divine  command.  These  things  I  know.  The  Lord  has 
revealed  them  to  me,  and  this  knowledge  I  have  had  since  the  day 
I  was  baptized.  I  know  that  the  power  of  the  Almighty  is  guiding 
this  people,  that  we  are  under  covenant  to  keep  his  commandments, 
to  walk  in  light  and  truth.  It  is  my  firm  conviction  that  every  mem- 
ber of  this  Church  should  be  able  to  bear  witness  and  declare  by 
words  of  soberness  that  these  things  are  true,  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  true,  that  the  revelations  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  are  true,  that  the  destiny  of  this  latter-day  work  is  true,  and, 
according  to  the  revelations,  must  and  will  be  fulfilled. 

Second  Coming 

I  believe  that  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  God  is  not  far  away,  how 
far  I  do  not  know,  but  I  do  know  that  it  is  over  one  hundred  years 
nearer  than  it  was  when  Elijah  the  prophet  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  on  the 
third  day  of  April,  1836.  Elijah's  words  point  to  the  fact  that  we  are 
that  much  nearer.  And  this  ancient  prophet  declared  that  by  the 
restoration  of  those  keys  we  should  know  that  the  great  and  dread- 
ful day  of  the  Lord  is  near,  even  at  our  doors.  I  have  opened  these 
scriptures  to  the  seventh  chapter  of  Matthew,  and  I  want  to  read 
the  seventh  and  eighth  verses: 

Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you: 

For  every  one  that  asketh  receiveth;  and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and 
to  him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened.  ( Matt .  7:7-8.) 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  59 


All  May  Know  the  Truth 

Is  there  any  good  reason  why  every  living  soul  cannot  know 
the  truth  and  where  it  can  be  found?  Is  there  any  reason  that  any 
members  of  this  Church  can  give  why  he  does  not  know  that  Jesus 
Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of 
God,  and  that  this  is  his  work?  If  we  lack  that  understanding,  we 
have  no  one  to  blame  but  ourselves.  I  had  perfect  confidence  in  the 
sayings  of  the  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ;  and  when  he  says, 
"Ask  and  it  shall  be  given  you;  seek  and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you:  For  everyone  that  asketh  receiveth,"  I  am 
just  as  sure  that  every  member  of  this  Church  may  know  within  him- 
self or  herself  that  God  lives,  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Son  of  God,  and  that 
this  is  his  work  which  he  has  established.  We  have  no  excuse  what- 
ever for  not  knowing  and  having  the  absolute  faith  and  confidence 
in  this  restored  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  our  duty  to  know.  In  a 
revelation  given  to  the  Church  many  years  ago,  that  is,  in  the  days 
of  the  Prophet,  he  warned  the  members  of  the  Church  against  false 
prophets,  false  spirits,  against  those  who  lie  in  wait  to  deceive.  He 
gave  us  a  key  then  by  which  we  may  know,  but  I  repeat,  this  key, 
given  by  our  Savior  in  his  Sermon  on  the  Mount  is  just  as  true 
today  as  it  was  nearly  two  thousand  years  ago.  It's  his  word  and  can 
be  accepted,  can  be  proved  today  just  as  well  as  it  could  by  his  dis- 
ciples as  he  spoke  to  them  in  this  Sermon  on  the  Mount.  In  inter- 
viewing missionaries  I  frequently  ask  them,  nearly  always  do,  if 
they  have  a  testimony  of  the  truth.  Some  of  them  say,  "No,  I  do  not. 
I  think  it  is  true,  but  I  do  not  know,  but  I  have  the  assurance  that  if 
I  go  on  this  mission  I  will  learn  that  it  is  true."  Down  in  their 
hearts  they  give  an  honest  answer,  but  I  think  they  know  better  than 
they  say.  However,  it  is  the  right  of  every  baptized  member  in  this 
Church  to  know  for  himself  by  the  revelations  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  that  all  that  I  have  said  in  regard  to  the  establishment  of  this 
work  is  absolutely  true.  There  is  no  reason  in  the  world  why  any 
soul  should  not  know  where  to  find  the  truth.  If  he  will  only  humble 
himself  and  seek  in  the  spirit  of  humility  and  faith,  going  to  the 
Lord  just  as  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  went  to  the  Lord  to  find  the 
truth,  he  will  find  it.  There's  no  doubt  about  it.  There  is  no  reason 
in  the  world,  if  men  would  only  harken  to  the  whisperings  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  seek  as  he  would  have  them  seek  for  the 
knowledge  and  understanding  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for 
them  not  to  find  it — no  reason,  except  the  hardness  of  their  hearts 
and  their  love  of  the  world.  "Knock,  and  it  shall  be  opened  unto 
you."  This  is  my  testimony,  I  know  it  is  true.  I  know  that  just  as 
well  as  I  know  I  stand  here.  The  Lord  has  revealed  it  to  me  as  he 
has  to  my  brethren.  The  Lord  bless  you  all,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


When  the  Prophet  Isaiah  forecast  the  coming  of  the  Savior,  he 
said  this: 

He  is  despised  and  rejected  of  men;  a  man  of  sorrows,  and  acquainted 
with  grief:  and  we  hid  as  it  were  our  faces  from  him;  he  was  despised, 
and  we  esteemed  him  not. 

All  we  like  sheep  have  gone  astray;  we  have  turned  every  one  to  his 
own  way;  and  the  Lord  hath  laid  on  him  the  iniquity  of  us  all.  (Isaiah 


When  the  Savior  came  in  the  flesh  and  labored  among  men, 
this  prophecy  was  literally  fulfilled.  He  was  despised  and  rejected 
of  men.  The  people  did  turn  their  faces  from  him,  and  they  did  go 
their  own  way.  They  rejected  him  as  they  rejected  his  teachings, 
and  it  grieved  him.  One  day  as  he  stood  in  their  capital  city,  he 
said, 

O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that  killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest 
them  which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  thy  chil- 
dren together,  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and 
ye  would  not! 

Behold,  your  house  is  left  unto  you  desolate.  (Matt.  23:37-38.) 

When  the  Lord  used  that  one  little  expression,  "ye  would  not," 
he  described  the  stubbornness,  the  wilfulness,  the  selfishness,  of  a 
people  who  would  not  obey  the  divine  truth,  but  who  turned  their 
faces  from  him,  each  one  going  his  own  way. 

Oh,  that  stubbornness!  If  only  they  could  have  realized  what 
it  did  to  them. 

When  he  first  began  his  ministry,  he  healed  their  sick;  he  even 
raised  their  dead.  He  fed  them  by  the  thousands  in  a  miraculous 
way.  But  when  he  asked  them  to  keep  his  commandments,  the 
crowds  melted  away.  Those  who  followed  him  were  there  no  longer. 
So  great  was  that  falling  away  that  he  asked  his  Twelve: 

.  .  .  Will  ye  also  go  away? 

Then  Simon  Peter  answered  him,  Lord,  to  whom  shall  we  go?  thou 
hast  the  words  of  eternal  life. 

And  we  believe  and  are  sure  that  thou  art  that  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God.  [John  6:67-69.) 

But  the  people  rejected  him.  In  their  blindness  and  in  their 
stubbornness,  as  he  offered  to  bless  them  and  take  them  into  his  arms 
as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  they  turned  away. 
And  in  doing  so,  according  to  the  words  of  the  Savior  himself,  their 
house  was  left  unto  them  desolate. 


53:3-6.) 


Despised  and  Rejected 


Wilfulness  of  Men 


As  I  have  read  that  scripture  from  time  to  time,  I  have  often 
wondered  about  its  application  to  us  who  live  today.  I  have  often 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


61 


wondered  whether  the  Lord  cries  out  to  us,  disappointed  at  our  dis- 
obedience, saying,  "How  oft  would  I  have  gathered  you  as  a  hen 
gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not."  (See 
Matt.  23:37.)  How  many  of  us  are  stubborn?  How  many  of  us  are 
selfish  and  wilful,  and  turn  our  faces  from  him,  and  would  rather 
not  obey  him? 

This  sort  of  thing  applies  in  various  phases  of  our  lives.  It 
applies  in  our  own  homes,  sometimes  with  our  own  children.  Have 
you  sons  or  daughters  who  are  wilful  and  stubborn  and  selfish,  and 
who  turn  their  faces  from  you,  you  the  loving  parents  who  would 
take  them  into  your  arms  and  nurture  them  even  as  a  hen  gathereth 
her  chickens  under  her  wings?  Do  they  reject  you,  these  children  in 
their  wilfulness?  Some  of  you  have  them,  and  you  know  how  they 
break  your  hearts. 

And  then  there  are  some  in  the  Church  who  ought  to  know 
better,  who  have  the  commandments  of  God,  but  will  not  repent,  but 
are  wilful  and  stubborn.  Even  though  the  blessings  of  God  are 
offered  to  them,  they  turn  their  faces,  and  each  one  goes  in  his  own 
way.  We  reject  God  as  we  refuse  to  obey  him.  We  must  remem- 
ber that  faith  without  works  is  dead.  There  is  no  salvation  except 
through  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  has  said: 

...  I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life:  no  man  cometh  unto  the 
Father,  but  by  me.  .  .  . 

If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  commandments.  .  .  . 

He  that  hath  my  commandments  and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth 
me  .  .  . 

He  that  loveth  me  not  keepeth  not  my  sayings.    (John  14:6,  15,  21. 

24.) 

Observance  of  Commandments 

You  know  whether  you  keep  his  sayings  or  not.  Do  you 
observe  the  Sabbath  day?  Do  you  uphold  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church?  Do  you  pay  a  full  and  honest  tithing?  Do  you  fast  on  fast 
day  and  pay  a  proper  fast  offering?  Are  you  honest?  Do  you  pay 
your  debts?  Are  you  morally  clean?  Do  you  keep  the  Word  of 
Wisdom?  You  know  whether  you  keep  these  things  or  not.  If  you 
do  not,  contemplate  your  disobedience  and  remember  that  the  Lord 
calls  out  to  you  and  says,  "How  oft  would  I  have  gathered  you  as 
a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not." 

Sometimes  in  our  communities  we  reject  the  Lord.  Have  you 
ever  wondered  about  the  community  in  which  you  live?  Here  in 
the  state  of  Utah  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  definitely  in  the  major- 
ity. The  Latter-day  Saints  have  the  commandments,  and  among 
them  is  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  Judging  from  our  state  records,  do 
we  accept  the  Word  of  Wisdom  as  God  has  given  it  to  us?  To  what 
degree  do  we  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  thus  reject  the  word 
of  God 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  6  First  Day 

Expenditures  for  Liquor  and  Tobacco 

Ten  years  ago  in  the  state  of  Utah,  eleven  million  dollars  was 
spent  for  alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco.  In  1950  that  figure  was 
up  three  hundred  percent.  It  reached  nearly  thirty-four  million 
dollars.  In  1948  the  figure  reached  nearly  thirty-five  million  dollars. 

What  will  thirty-five  million  dollars  buy?  The  last  temple  built 
by  the  Church  was  that  at  Idaho  Falls.  A  temple  like  that  could  be 
built  in  forty-two  states  of  the  Union  with  the  amount  of  money 
that  is  spent  in  the  state  of  Utah  in  one  year  alone,  for  alcoholic 
beverages  and  tobacco. 

The  amount  of  money  spent  here  each  year  for  tobacco  and 
alcoholic  beverages  is  almost  identical  to  the  amount  we  spend  in 
this  state  for  education.  In  the  fiscal  year  ending  June  30,  1950, 
$35,653,000.00  was  spent  for  operating  our  school  system  and  main- 
taining our  school  buildings  in  the  state  of  Utah.  Think  of  it!  We 
spend  as  much  in  Utah  for  "booze"  and  tobacco  as  we  spend  for 
education!  It  is  almost  incredible. 

The  amount  of  money  we  spend  each  year  in  Utah  for  alcoholic 
beverages  and  tobacco  is  greater  than  the  combined  assessed  valua- 
tion of  the  cities  of  Provo,  Logan,  and  Brigham  City. 

The  amount  of  money  we  spend  in  Utah  every  year  for 
alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco  is  nearly  twice  as  much  as  we  spend 
for  the  construction  and  maintenance  of  our  state  highway  system. 

In  Utah  we  spend  one  hundred  times  as  much  for  liquor  and 
tobacco  as  we  contribute  each  year  to  the  American  Red  Cross. 

In  Utah  we  spend  two  hundred  times  as  much  for  alcoholic 
beverages  and  tobacco  as  we  contribute  to  fight  the  dread  disease 
of  poliomyelitis. 

About  half  of  our  state  expenditure  for  alcoholic  beverages  and 
tobacco  is  spent  right  here  in  Salt  Lake  County.  Do  you  know 
that  in  Salt  Lake  County  we  spend  fifty  times  as  much  money  every 
year  for  alcoholic  beverages  and  tobacco  as  we  pay  into  the  Salt 
Lake  Community  Chest? 

In  view  of  all  this,  what  do  you  think  about  the  scripture  that 
the  Lord  gives  us:  "How  oft  would  I  have  gathered  you  as  a  hen 
gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would  not? 

Condition  of  the  Nation 

What  about  the  nation?  A  century  ago  the  Lord  offered  the 
American  people  a  blessing  if  they  would  repent.  In  a  revelation 
given  over  a  hundred  years  ago,  the  Lord  said  concerning  the 
American  people: 

...  I  will  gather  them  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens,  under  her 
wings,  if  they  will  not  harden  their  hearts; 

Yea,  if  they  will  come,  they  may,  and  partake  of  the  waters  of  life 
freely.  (D.&C.  10:65-67.) 


ELDER  MARK  E,  PETERSEN 


63 


It  is  estimated  that  the  total  crime  bill  for  the  United  States 
last  year  reached  twenty  billion  dollars.  According  to  the  records 
of  the  F.B.I,  last  year,  a  serious  crime  was  committed  in  the  United 
States  every  eighteen  seconds.  In  an  average  day  last  year,  301 
persons  were  feloniously  killed  or  assaulted;  146  robberies  were 
committed;  1129  places  were  burglarized;  468  cars  were  stolen; 
2861  thefts  were  committed. 

The  criminologists  of  the  United  States  are  of  the  opinion  that 
in  the  last  few  years,  a  great  moral  depression  has  come  to  the 
United  States. 

}.  Edgar  Hoover,  the  head  of  the  F.B.I.,  in  speaking  on  March 
26  of  this  year  before  a  special  committee  to  investigate  organized 
crime,  said  this: 

Those  who  engage  in  widespread  vice  activities  and  rackets  could 
not  long  survive  without  their  ally,  the  political  renegade.  No  community 
in  the  land  is  contaminated  by  rackets  and  corruption  without  the  assistance 
of  local  interests  which  hold  law  enforcement  in  restraint.  Law  enforce- 
ment officers  are  the  people's  representatives.  They  are  not  persons  with 
unlimited  power.  They  must  obey  those  under  whom  they  hold  office. 
If  they  are  dominated  by  criminal-aligned  politicians,  ruthless  rackets  and 
and  vice  are  inevitable. 

To  what  extent  does  America  obey  the  God  of  the  land? 

What  about  the  world  at  large?  In  their  blindness,  the  nations 
cry  for  peace  but  at  the  same  time  they  reject  the  teachings  of  the 
Prince  of  Peace.  The  Lord  spoke  to  the  nations  in  a  modern  revela- 
tion and  said  this: 

O,  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  often  would  I  have  gathered  you 
together  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but  ye  would  not! 
How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by  the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and  by 
the  ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine  own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of 
thunderings,  and  by  the  voice  of  lightnings,  and  by  the  voice  of  tempests, 
and  by  the  voice  of  earthquakes,  and  great  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice 
of  famines  and  pestilences  of  every  kind,  and  by  the  great  sound  of  a 
trump,  and  by  the  voice  of  judgment,  and  by  the  voice  of  mercy  all  the 
day  long,  and  by  the  voice  of  glory  and  honor  and  the  riches  of  eternal 
life,  and  would  have  saved  you  with  an  everlasting  salvation,  but  ye 
would  not! 

Behold  the  day  has  come,  when  the  cup  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indigna- 
tion is  full.  {D.&C.  43:24-26.) 

Position  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Latter-day  Saints,  what  is  your  position?  Are  you  willing  to 
hearken  unto  the  Lord  your  God  who  cries  out  to  you  and  would 
nurture  you  and  gather  you  together  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her 
chickens  under  her  wings?  The  Lord  said  something  to  you  also 
about  this: 

Listen  to  the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ,  your  Redeemer,  the  Great  I  Am, 
whose  arm  of  mercy  hath  atoned  for  your  sins; 

Who  will  gather  his  people  even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under 
her  wings,  even  as  many  as  will  hearken  to  my  voice  and  humble  them- 
selves before  me,  and  call  upon  me  in  mighty  prayer  .  .  . 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  6  First  Day 

For  the  hour  is  nigh  and  the  day  soon  at  hand  when  the  earth  is 
ripe;  and  all  the  proud  and  they  that  do  wickedly  shall  be  as  stubble;  and 
I  will  burn  them  up,  saith  the  Lord  of  Hosts,  that  wickedness  shall  not  be 
upon  the  earth; 

For  the  hour  is  nigh,  and  that  which  was  spoken  by  mine  apostles 
must  be  fulfilled;  for  as  they  spoke,  so  shall  it  come  to  pass; 

For  I  will  reveal  myself  from  heaven  with  power  and  great  glory, 
with  all  the  hosts  thereof,  and  dwell  in  righteousness  with  men  on  earth  a 
thousand  years,  and  the  wicked  shall  not  stand.  (Ibid.,  29:1-2,  9-11.) 

I  declare  to  you  in  all  seriousness  that  I,  too,  know  that  God 
lives.  I,  too,  know  that  George  Albert  Smith  was  a  prophet  of 
Almighty  God.  And  I  know  that  the  man  who  will  take  his  place 
is  likewise  a  prophet  and  that  he  holds  all  the  keys,  powers,  and 
authorities  that  were  ever  restored  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
these  last  days. 

When  he  takes  up  the  reins  of  office  here  in  this  Church,  he 
will  preside  by  virtue  of  all  the  powers  that  were  restored  through 
angelic  ministry  in  these  the  last  days. 

God  will  speak  to  you  through  him,  and  he  will  say  to  you; 
"How  oft  will  I  gather  you  as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chickens  under 
her  wings,  if  ye  will  not  harden  your  hearts."  (Ibid.  10:65.) 

May  we  humbly  follow  him  and  obey  the  Lord  our  God,  I 
earnestly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 

As  the  closing  song  of  this  session  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity combined  choruses  will  sing,  "The  Lord  Bless  You  and  Keep 
You,"  conducted  by  Elder  Crawford  Gates. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  E.  Garrett  Bar- 
low of  the  Inglewood  Stake,  California. 

After  that  the  conference  will  stand  adjourned  until  seven  o'clock 
tomorrow  evening  when,  in  accordance  with  the  general  custom  of 
the  Church,  a  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  will  be 
held.  Only  those  holding  the  priesthood  are  invited  to  be  present. 
Persons  not  holding  the  priesthood  will  kindly  refrain  from  attempt- 
ing to  enter  the  building.  That  session  will  not  be  broadcast. 

The  session  at  ten  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  will  be  broadcast 
over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  conference.  That  ses- 
sion will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  station,  channel 
five. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  on  which  Elder  Stephen  L 
Richards,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  the  speaker,  will 
begin  at  8:30  Sunday  morning.  Those  desiring  to  attend  this  broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  by  8:20  a.m. 


ELDER  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


65 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  comes  from  9:00  to  9:30  Sun- 
day morning,  immediately  following  the  Church  of  the  Air.  As  there 
is  only  a  thirty  second  break  between  these  two  broadcasts,  the  doors 
will  not  be  opened  until  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  is  over,  at 
9.30. 

The  regular  session  of  the  conference  will  begin  at  10:00  a.m. 

Tonight  at  seven  o'clock,  here  in  the  Tabernacle,  there  will  be  a 
meeting  of  ward  bishoprics  and  others,  as  listed  in  the  published 
announcement,  under  the  direction  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

Tomorrow,  as  you  know  and  as  has  been  announced  in  the  press, 
the  funeral  for  our  beloved  President,  George  Albert  Smith,  will  be 
held.  The  services  will  begin  in  this  tabernacle  at  2:00  p.m.  All  are 
invited  to  attend.  The  body  will  lie  in  state  in  the  Administration 
Building,  47  East  South  Temple  Street,  from  5:00  to  8:00  this  after- 
noon and  evening,  and,  as  announced  in  the  press,  tomorrow  fore- 
noon. 

The  choir  music  for  today  has  been  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  combined  choruses,  under  the  direction  of  Elders 
Newell  Weight,  Crawford  Gates,  and  Clawson  Cannon,  with  Elder 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  would  like  to  renew  to  this  combined  chorus  our  appreciation 
and  our  gratitude.  They  are  a  great  chorus,  as  has  been  said  today, 
and  we  pray  that  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  will  contniue  with  them, 
with  the  institutions  from  which  they  come,  and  with  those  who  lead 
and  direct  them. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  meeting  the  general  sessions  of  the  con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  Sunday  morning. 

The  combined  choruses  will  now  sing,  as  we  announced,  "The 
Lord  Bless  You  and  Keep  You,"  conducted  by  Elder  Crawford  Gates, 
and  the  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  E.  Garrett  Barlow 
of  the  Inglewood  Stake,  California. 


The  combined  choruses  sang,  "The  Lord  Bless  You  and  Keep 
You." 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  E.  Garrett  Barlow 
of  the  Inglewood  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m.  Sunday  morning. 


66  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Saturday.  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  7,  1951. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  presided  and  at  President  McKay's  request  Elder 
}.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  conducted 
the  meeting. 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  will  consider  this  just  another  session  of  the  General  Con- 
ference. Some  of  the  brethren  who  are  not  accustomed  to  speaking  on 
Priesthood  night  might  get  themselves  in  readiness. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will  be  by  the  Delta  Phi  (Re- 
turned Missionaries)  Chorus  from  the  Brigham  Young  University, 
Elder  Ardean  Watts,  conductor,  and  Elder  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ. 

The  opening  song  by  the  chorus  will  be:  "See  The  Mighty  Angel 
Flying." 


Singing:  "See  The  Mighty  Angel  Flying." 
Opening  prayer  by  President  Vernal  Willie  of  the  North  Box 
Elder  Stake. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren,  that  I  may  have  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers.  I  feel  keenly  the  responsibility  in  addressing  this 
great  body  of  the  priesthood  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Hospitality  for  Ward  Teachers 

Last  night  in  our  bishops'  meeting,  we  discussed  the  great  priest- 
hood activity  of  ward  teaching.  There  was  one  factor  omitted  that 
I  should  like  to  draw  to  your  attention,  and  that  is  the  manner  of 
receiving  the  ward  teachers  in  our  homes.  Reports  have  come  to  us 
that  in  many  homes  there  is  an  attitude  of  indifference.  Perhaps  the 
radio  is  on,  or  the  television,  and  the  proper  hospitality  is  not  accorded 
the  servants  of  the  Lord. 

We  plead  with  you  bishops,  to  admonish  your  people  to  receive 
these  servants  of  God  with  kindness  and  consideration.  I  recall  about 
two  years  ago  of  visiting  the  home  of  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  and 
as  I  left,  there  was  a  humble  man  at  the  door.  I  heard  the  president 
say  to  him,  "What  can  I  do  for  you,  my  brother?"  And  he  introduced 
himself  as  the  ward  teacher.    I  was  deeply  impressed  by  the  degree 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


67 


of  hospitality  that  a  member  of  the  First  Presidency  extended  to  this 
humble  man.  I  wish  that  all  of  us  could  have  the  same  attitude  and 
feeling  towards  these  men  that  are  sent  to  us  as  representatives  of 
the  bishop;  extending  to  them  the  highest  degree  of  cordiality,  call 
the  family  in,  and  hearken  and  listen  to  their  instructions. 

About  a  week  ago  I  was  asked  this  question:  Are  the  general 
authorities  assigned  subjects  to  discuss  in  general  conference?  My 
answer  was  "No."  The  individual  who  was  asking  the  question  said, 
"It  seems  rather  odd  that  in  all  of  the  general  conferences  there  is  a 
definite  theme  discussed  by  the  general  authorities."  And  so  during 
this  great  conference  I  could  not  help  but  observe  that  after  Brother 
Romney  gave  his  wonderful  address  pointing  out  the  dangers  and 
the  feeling  of  insecurity,  almost  every  speaker  following  him  talked 
on  that  particular  subject.    And  that  subject  is  on  my  mind  tonight. 

Security  Through  the  Gospel 

The  other  day  a  sixteen-year-old  boy  was  heard  to  make  this 
declaration,  "I  wonder  what  kind  of  a  tomorrow  there  will  be  for  me. 
When  I  am  eighteen  or  nineteen,  no  doubt  I  will  be  drafted  into  the 
armed  forces,  which  will  mean  a  service  of  at  least  two  years,  and  if 
there  is  war,  it  may  mean  an  indefinite  period  of  service."  "And  after 
that,  if  I'm  lucky  enough  to  come  out,  I  want  to  go  on  a  mission,  and 
have  four  years  at  college.  By  the  time  I've  done  all  of  these  things, 
I'll  be  twenty-seven  or  twenty-eight  years  of  age."  He  seemed  to 
express  a  spirit  of  frustration.  He  was  down-hearted  and  discouraged 
because  of  an  uncertain  future. 

I  believe  that  we  can  so  instruct  our  youth  that  regardless  of 
what  events  transpire  in  the  world's  history,  there  will  be  in  their 
hearts  a  feeling  of  security,  security  given  to  them  through  a  testimony 
of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I'm  sure  that  our  youth  will 
understand  the  gospel  more  fully  if  there  is  gospel  instruction  in  the 
home,  for  has  not  the  Lord  declared: 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion  or  in  any 
of  her  stakes  which  are  organized,  and  teach  them  not  to  understand  the 
doctrine  of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ,  the  son  of  the  living  God,  and  of 
baptism,  and  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands 
when  eight  years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents.  For  this 
shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  or  in  any  of  her  stakes  which 
are  organized.  And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of 
their  sins  when  eight  years  old  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  hands.  And 
they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray  and  to  walk  uprightly  before 
the  Lord. 

Instruction  of  Children 

I  wonder  when  a  child  is  approaching  the  age  of  eight,  whether 
or  not  the  head  of  the  family,  the  father,  he  who  holds  the  Melchi- 
zedek  Priesthood,  calls  his  child  to  his  side  and  gives  him  some  in- 


68  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


Saturday,  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 

struction  with  reference  to  having  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
explaining  to  him  what  repentance  means,  the  great  significance  of 
the  baptismal  ordinance,  wherein  having  been  baptized  their  sins 
are  remitted,  and  the  great  significant  fact  that  when  they  go  into 
the  waters  of  baptism,  they  are  buried  with  the  Christ  in  death,  com- 
ing up  out  of  the  water  is  symbolical  of  His  resurrection.  I  do  not 
feel  that  these  teachings  are  beyond  the  understanding  of  a  child 
eight  years  old. 

I  am  certain  that  a  child  of  eight  years  of  age  will  understand  the 
significance  of  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 
If  a  child  has  been  properly  taught  and  has  a  proper  concept  of  the 
Godhead,  he  will  know  that  there  is  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost  in  the  Godhead.  And  this  great  spiritual  being,  called 
the  Holy  Ghost,  can  be  so  explained  to  a  child  that  he  will  under- 
stand what  the  Holy  Ghost  is.  And  along  with  that,  teach  him  that 
when  the  authorized  servants  of  God  lay  their  hands  upon  his  head, 
that  individual  so  laying  his  hands  upon  his  head  has  the  authority 
to  do  so — restored  authority  in  these  the  last  days.  And  through  the 
imposition  of  hands  and  receiving  the  promise  of  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  if  that  child  is  taught  to  live  a  sweet,  clean  life,  the  Holy 
Ghost  will  come  and  be  his  companion.  I  think  he  can  understand 
that  he  will  be  led  into  the  path  of  truth  and  light,  that  he  will  be 
blessed  with  a  sense  of  perception  which  will  give  him  the  power  to 
differentiate  between  that  which  is  good  and  that  which  is  evil.  I 
think  it  would  be  an  excellent  practice  to  read  to  children  the  scrip- 
ture wherein  the  Savior  declared;  found  in  John  14:16-17,  includ- 
ing verse  26, 


And  I  will  pray  the  Father,  and  he  shall  give  you  another  comforter 
that  he  might  abide  with  you  forever,  even  the  spirit  of  Truth,  whom  the 
world  cannot  receive  because  it  seeketh  him  not,  neither  knoweth  him.  But 
ye  know  him,  for  he  dwelleth  with  you  and  shall  be  in  you,  But  the  com- 
forter which  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  whom  the  Father  will  send  in  my  name, 
shall  teach  you  all  things  and  bring  all  things  to  your  remembrance  what- 
soever I  have  said  unto  you. 


If  children  who  are  about  to  be  baptized  receive  these  instruc- 
tions, they  will  understand  the  significance  of  them,  creating  a  desire 
to  live  so  fine  the  Spirit  of  Truth  will  come  into  their  souls,  giving 
them  the  assurance,  yes,  more  than  that,  the  testimony  that  their 
Heavenly  Father  lives  and  that  the  boy  of  Nazareth  was  his  son,  the 
Redeemer  of  the  world;  and  that  a  fourteen-year-old  boy  who  went 
into  the  woods  asking  for  divine  guidance,  was  visited  by  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  his  prayers  were  answered,  and  they,  too,  can  have  their 
prayers  answered.  The  Holy  Ghost  will  give  them  a  blessing  of 
security  as  to  the  future  and  the  eternities,  that  regardless  of  what 
events  transpire,  they  will  understand  that  their  Heavenly  Father 
rules  over  all  for  good. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN  69 

Significance  of  the  Priesthood* 

Then  there  comes  the  time  when  worthy  young  men  at  the  age 
of  twelve  receive  the  priesthood  of  God.  I  do  not  know  of  anyone 
who  is  better  qualified  to  sit  down  with  his  son  than  a  father  and 
explain  to  him  the  great  significance  of  the  priesthood.  Define  priest- 
hood: Point  out  to  him  that  when  he  receives  the  priesthood  of  God, 
there  is  bestowed  upon  him  Godly  power  that  gives  him  the  right  to 
represent  the  Lord  and  to  function  in  certain  assignments  when  called 
upon  to  do  so  by  those  in  authority.  If  these  important  lessons  with 
relationship  to  the  priesthood  were  taught  to  our  sons,  these  young 
men  would  have  a  higher  regard  and  respect  for  the  priesthood. 

Think  if  you  will  of  the  wonderful  relationship  in  the  home, 
when  a  father  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  instructs  his  son 
in  the  ways  of  the  priesthood  who  holds  the  lower  or  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  The  Aaronic  Priesthood  is  an  appendage  to  the  Mel- 
chizedek or  the  higher  priesthood,  just  as  a  son  is  an  appendage  to 
his  father.  I  feel  that  if  in  our  homes  fathers  will  take  the  time  to 
teach  these  young  men  what  the  priesthood  means — its  significance, 
its  powers,  what  is  expected  of  them  who  hold  it,  it  will  contribute 
to  the  feeling  of  security  that  youth  is  seeking  for.  If  fathers  and 
mothers  invite  their  sons  and  daughters  to  attend  Sacrament  Meeting 
with  them,  the  sacrament  meeting  will  become  such  a  sacred,  such  a 
solemn,  and  such  an  impressive  meeting  that  young  people  would  not 
miss  it.  Partaking  of  the  emblems  of  the  Last  Supper  should  be  a 
source  of  inspiration  and  comfort  to  them,  and  the  obligations  they 
make  with  the  Lord. 

Young  people  should  always  feel  impressed  with  the  fact  that 
Joseph  Smith  actually  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son  just  as  plainly 
as  I  can  see  you.  It  had  to  be  so  for  the  world  to  know  what  our 
Heavenly  Father  is  like  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  son. 

Then,  too,  if  as  fathers  and  mothers,  we  are  carrying  out  the 
mandate  of  the  Lord  wherein  he  has  given  us  instructions  to  teach 
our  youth  the  gospel,  please  invite  our  youth  to  attend  fast  meeting, 
teaching  them  first  the  significance  of  the  fast  offering  principle,  that 
they  abstain  from  two  meals,  giving  the  equivalent  in  cash  to  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  who  comes  to  collect  it  for  the  bishop, 
impressing  upon  them  that  their  contribution  will  be  used  for  those 
who  are  in  distress. 

First  Great  Commandment 

All  during  this  conference,  and  particularly  during  the  funeral  of 
President  Smith  today,  the  first  and  great  commandment  was  re- 
ferred to  many  times — first,  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our 
might,  and  secondly  to  love  our  neighbor  as  ourself.  Teach  the 
youth  of  Israel  to  love  their  neighbors  as  themselves,  then  they  must 
do  something  for  that  neighbor.  Teach  them  that  whatever  they  con- 


70  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Saturday,  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 

tribute  in  fast  offerings  is  expressing  a  real  love  for  the  widow,  for 
the  aged,  and  for  the  orphan.  Love,  after  all,  is  something  that  cre- 
ates and  demands  service.  It  isn't  lip  service,  but  service  that  goes 
for  the  benefit  and  the  good  of  someone  else.  Teaching  our  children 
to  observe  the  fast  offering  principle,  contributing  to  those  who  are  in 
need,  inviting  them  to  attend  fast  meeting  with  the  promise  that  if 
they  will  stand  and  bear  witness  that  God  lives  and  his  goodness  unto 
them,  God  will  reward  them  with  a  testimony.  The  spirit  of  testi- 
mony only  comes  through  the  gift  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  if  they  desire  to  experience  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the 
place  to  go  to  have  that  experience  is  in  the  fast  meeting. 

I  am  sure  there  isn't  a  young  man  or  young  woman  that  bears 
testimony  to  the  divine  existence  of  God,  but  what  they  feel  in  their 
souls  something  that  is  far  above  themselves,  and  it  is  a  gift,  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Brigham  Young  declared  that  no  man  can  testify 
only  through  the  power  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  so  through  observing  the  fast  offering  principle  and  at- 
tending fast  meeting  there  will  come  to  them  spiritual  rewards  which 
will  bud  into  a  testimony. 

Importance  of  Prayer 

The  Lord  has  admonished  us  to  teach  our  children  to  pray.  If 
they're  not  introduced  to  the  Lord  in  the  family  circle  of  prayer,  they 
will  not  know  him.  And  knowing  him  not,  they  will  not  have  faith. 
So,  one  of  the  first  and  most  important  lessons  in  every  Latter-day 
Saint  home  should  be  teaching  our  children  to  pray.  I  am  convinced 
that  every  spirit  that  leaves  the  presence  of  God  and  comes  into  mor- 
tality has  a  spark  of  faith  in  its  heart.  Hence  the  responsibility  de- 
volves upon  the  parents  to  so  teach  the  children  that  the  gospel  spark 
will  burst  into  a  flame  of  faith.  Having  faith  through  prayer  and  obedi- 
ence they  will  understand  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
let  come  what  will,  they  will  know  that  God  lives,  that  he  will  be  with 
them,  bless  them,  and  sustain  them.  And  I  know  that  any  individual 
who  has  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  as  Brother 
Romney  indicated  yesterday,  will  have  a  feeling  of  security,  will  have 
a  positive,  affirmative  feeling  and  not  a  negative  one  in  spite  of  all 
the  terrible  events  that  are  transpiring  at  this  time. 

If  the  young  of  Israel  will  live  the  gospel  they  will  know  what 
the  old  prophet  Joel  said  would  be  a  reality: 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  afterward  that  I  will  pour  out  my  spirit 
upon  all  flesh  and  your  sons  and  your  daughters  shall  prophesy,  your  old 
men  shall  dream  dreams  and  your  young  men  shall  see  visions,  and  also 
upon  the  servants  and  upon  the  handmaidens  in  those  days  I  will  pour  out 
my  spirit." 

And  then  again  the  Lord  has  said: 

"Wherefore  children  shall  grow  up  until  they  become  old.  Old  men 
shall  die  but  they  shall  not  sleep  in  the  dust,  but  they  shall  be  changed 
in  the  twinkling  of  an  eye." 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  W1RTHLIN 


71 


Promises  of  the  Lord 

With  a  burning  testimony  in  their  hearts,  there  isn't  any  question 
but  that  the  youth  of  Israel  will  accept  the  word  of  the  Lord  at  its 
face  value,  and  with  the  promises  involved,  why  should  they  be  down- 
cast, or  why  should  they  ask  the  question,  "Will  there  be  a  tomor- 
row?" There  will  be  a  tomorrow  for  them,  not  only  tomorrows  of 
mortality  but  tomorrows  of  eternity,  where  they  will  enjoy  every 
blessing  that  the  Lord  has  promised  the  faithful,  the  loyal,  and  the 
devoted.   For  has  not  the  Lord  declared: 

"And  in  that  day  the  enmity  of  man  and  the  enmity  of  beasts,  yea 
the  enmity  of  all  flesh  shall  cease  from  before  my  face." 

For  in  the  day  when  enmity  between  man  and  beast  and  be- 
tween man  and  man  ceases,  we  shall  have  eternal  peace. 

And  after  we  have  taught  our  youth  the  gospel  principles  and 
in  turn  they  have  obeyed  them,  might  they  well  feel  as  Paul  declared 
to  Timothy  in  II  Timothy  1 : 7, 

"For  God  hath  not  given  us  the  spirit  of  fear,  but  of  power,  and  of 
love,  and  of  a  sound  mind." 

Paul  declared  to  the  Corinthians,  in  I  Corinthians  16:13: 
"Watch  ye,  stand  fast  in  the  faith,  quit  ye  like  men.    Be  strong." 

And  the  strong  people  will  be  the  Saints  of  God,  who  have  lived 
his  word,  and  kept  his  commandments.  Finally,  when  these  young 
people  stand  upon  the  heights  of  their  tomorrow,  as  Joshua  stood 
upon  the  heights  of  the  promised  land  and  looking  upon  it  for  the 
first  time,  may  our  young  men  hear  that  sweet,  small  voice  which 
said  to  him: 

"Only  be  thou  strong  and  of  good  courage;  be  not  afraid,  neither  be 
thou  dismayed,  for  the  Eternal  One  is  with  thee  whithersoever  thou 
goest." 

And  in  response  to  that  voice,  they  will  declare: 

I'll  go  where  you  want  me  to  go,  dear  Lord,  over  mountain  or  plain 
or  sea, 

I'll  say  what  you  want  me  to  say,  dear  Lord 
I'll  be  what  you  want  me  to  be. 

Fathers  of  Israel,  teach  your  children  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  in  their  childhood,  and  when  they  are  old  they  will  not 
depart  therefrom,  and  may  the  feeling  of  security  and  testimony  come 
into  their  hearts  in  the  place  of  fear  and  doubt  knowing  the  Lord  lives 
and  this  is  his  work,  which  I  humbly  ask  will  be  the  blessing  of  every 
young  man  and  woman  in  Israel,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


Priesthood  Meeting 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  had  assumed  a  sort  of  immunity  at  this  session  of  conference, 
and  checked  my  briefcase  and  my  thoughts  in  one  of  the  outer  rooms. 
With  all  respects  to  President  Clark,  it  takes  more  than  a  rounding 
up  of  one's  shoulders  to  give  utterance  before  this  congregation,  and 
I  ask  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  as  I  face  this  responsi- 
bility. 


I  heard  some  weeks  ago  someone  ask  one  of  the  secretaries  of 
one  of  the  brethren — someone  who  apparently  had  tried  repeatedly  to 
make  an  appointment — "What  it  would  require  for  a  humble  member 
of  the  Church  to  have  an  audience  with  the  First  Presidency."  The 
only  answer  I  could  think  of  was  "More  time,"  which  unfortunately 
we  cannot  extend  or  increase. 

Also  occasionally  one  hears  someone  say:  "You  haven't  ever 
been  out  to  our  ward."  When  I  heard  this  remark  a  few  weeks  ago, 
I  made  a  mental  note  of  how  many  Sabbaths  it  would  take  to  visit 
all  the  wards  in  the  Church,  and  it  would  require  about  thirty  years  of 
Sundays  for  any  one  of  the  brethren  to  go  to  all  of  the  wards  and  in- 
dependent branches  now  existent.  But  by  the  time  they  got  around 
that  first  thirty  years,  there  would  probably  be  another  thirty  years 
of  new  wards  waiting  for  them,  considering  the  growth  of  the  Church. 

I  made  another  mental  calculation  along  this  same  line,  prompted 
by  this  same  question — "What  would  it  require  for  a  humble  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  to  have  an  audience  with  the  First  Presidency?" — 
and  multiplied  the  number  of  hours  in  a  day  by  the  number  of  days 
in  the  year,  and  the  number  of  years  in  an  average  life  expectancy 
(using  the  scriptural  allotment  of  three  score  and  ten)  and  found 
that  in  this  life,  if  we  are  fortunate  enough  to  live  that  long,  we  have 
only  about  six  hundred  thousand  hours  to  do  all  that  we  have  to 
do.  But  take  from  that  approximately  one-third  for  sleep,  and  then 
take  another  substantial  slice  for  the  years  of  our  youth,  for  prepara- 
tion, for  going  to  and  from,  for  waiting  for  late  people  and  late  ap- 
pointments, and  a  good  many  other  of  the  essentials,  and  it  reduces 
itself  down  to  a  very  limited  time  in  total  hours  of  life.  With  a 
Church  of  more  than  a  million  people,  with  a  Church  which  is  rapid- 
ly growing,  it  must  become  apparent,  brethren,  to  all  of  us,  how 
much  more  of  the  weight  of  responsibility  must  continually  be  car- 
ried back  in  the  wards  and  the  stakes,  in  the  priesthood  quorums,  by 
the  ward  teachers,  by  all  of  the  organized  agencies  of  the  Church 
which  were  set  up  for  this  very  purpose  and  which,  if  functioning 
properly,  would  care  for  all  these  needs  and  would  make  fewer  and 
fewer  personal  demands  upon  the  time  of  the  First  Presidency  and 
of  the  other  brethren  here  at  Church  headquarters. 


Restricted  by  Time's  Limitations 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


73 


The  Basis  of  Strength  and  Growth 

I  know  that  these  brethren,  many  of  them,  cannot  extend  the 
physical  limits  of  their  time.  I  know  that  President  McKay's  car,  for 
example,  is  down  in  the  parking  lot  behind  the  office  at  six  or  seven 
o'clock  almost  any  morning.  And  I  heard  a  request  made  of  President 
Clark  to  attend  an  evening  function  not  long  ago,  and  heard  him  make 
the  statement  that  he  was  working  on  the  scriptures  almost  every  night 
till  midnight  and  after.  And  with  the  other  brethren  it  is,  in  an  ap- 
proaching degree,  at  least,  a  similar  situation. 

With  these  fullest  of  days,  full  beyond  filling  them  further,  with 
many  weighty  decisions  to  be  made,  with  many  demands  upon  every 
hour  of  every  day,  and  with  time  not  being  subject  to  extension,  the 
answer  is  of  course  a  great  statement  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
repeated  by  his  successors,  frequently  quoted,  and  basically  true: 
"Teach  them  correct  principles  and  let  them  govern  themselves." 
That's  the  basis  of  strength  and  growth  in  this  Church  and  kingdom — 
provided  we  follow  the  correct  principles.  They  are  there;  we  have 
been  taught  them;  the  plan  of  operation  is  in  the  handbooks  and  else- 
where; the  scriptures  and  the  revelations  are  before  us.  And  many  of 
the  decisions,  I  am  sure,  that  we  refer  on  up  rather  than  take  the 
responsibility  of  making  them  within  the  limits  and  scope  of  the  offices 
we  hold,  we  could  readily  avoid  passing  up,  if  we  would  prayerfully 
and  earnestly  follow  the  correct  principles  we  have  been  taught  and 
govern  ourselves,  each  one  according  to  his  calling. 

The  Time  Test 

About  six  hundred  thousand  hours  of  life,  brethren,  for  him  who 
lives  three  score  and  ten,  minus  the  years  of  youth  and  of  prepara- 
tion, minus  the  hours  of  rest,  minus  many  other  things!  I  wouldn't 
be  surprised  if  in  a  man's  effective  career,  his  actual  disposable  time 
might  not  come  down  to  something  more  like  two  hundred  thousand 
hours,  or  even  less,  when  all  these  other  things  are  considered-^- 
whieh  means  that  we  must  be  about  our  Father's  business  and  give 
everything  we  do  the  time  test.  It  means  that  there  is  no  time  for 
any  shabby  or  shoddy  thing.  In  all  that  we  read,  in  the  books  with 
which  we  become  familiar,  which  we  make  our  companions,  in  the 
entertainment  to  which  we  devote  our  time,  in  all  else  that  we  do, 
we  must  give  it  the  time  test,  and  as  we  have  been  taught,  we 
must  acquaint  ourselves  with  the  correct  principles  and  govern  our- 
selves, and  assume  the  responsibility  of  the  offices  and  callings  to 
which  we  have  been  called. 

Individual  Responsibility 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  made  an  eloquent  utterance  on  this 
question  of  free  agency  and  of  the  assuming  of  responsibility.  One 
hour  of  righteous  freedom  on  earth,  he  said,  is  worth  more  than  an 
eternity  of  bondage.  The  Lord  has  given  us  our  agency  and  our 
individual  responsibility.  We  have  it  in  the  Church  and  we  have  it 


74  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Saturday,  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 

in  all  that  we  do.  May  we  go  forward  and  use  our  agency  in  accor- 
dance with  correct  principles,  and  give  all  that  we  do  the  time  test, 
and  relieve  the  brethren  over  us  as  much  as  we  can  within  the  line 
of  prescribed  procedure,  within  the  line  of  those  things  which  we  have 
been  taught  and  those  things  which  we  read  in  scripture,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

President  Clark,  President  McKay,  my  other  beloved  brethren 
of  the  General  Authorities,  and  my  dear  brethren  of  the  priesthood, 
truly  this  is  nearly  breathtaking,  and  I  feel  very  humble  in  standing 
here  tonight.  I  am  sure  we  didn't  expect  this  tonight,  and  I  will  be 
grateful  if  I  can  have  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

Yes,  this  is  very  much  a  humbling  experience.  I  wish  all  of 
you  could  have  the  experience  I  am  now  having  of  looking  over  this 
vast  audience.  I  have  prayed  to  the  Lord  that  when  I  should  be 
called  to  occupy  this  position  that  he  should  not  leave  me.  I  have 
prayed  to  him  first  because  I  believe  in  prayer  and,  second,  because 
I  know  I  need  the  blessings  of  the  Lord.  I  confess  to  you  that  with- 
out those  blessings  and  his  sustaining  help  and  influence  that  I  am 
nothing. 

Prophets  of  God 

Surely  one's  testimony  is  strengthened  as  he  comes  here  and 
listens  to  the  brethren,  listens  to  the  words  of  the  Lord  given  to  us 
by  his  servants,  yes,  by  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators  of  God,  our 
Eternal  Father.  We  often  hear  them  referred  to  as  prophets,  but  I 
am  wondering,  members  of  the  Church  and  particularly  holders  of 
the  priesthood,  if  we  give  serious  thought  to  the  full  meaning  of  that 
term.  I  recognize  them  as  prophets  of  God,  I  know  you  do,  but 
there  are  times,  perhaps,  when  we  pass  that  thought  by  lightly.  Do 
you  feel  toward  these  brethren,  prophets  of  the  Lord,  as  you  would 
had  you  known  the  prophets  of  old?  I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  that  I  know  they  are  prophets  of  the  living  God,  I  know  they 
are  inspired  of  our  Father  in  Heaven  in  their  calling.  I  hope  you 
will  have  the  same  feeling  burning  in  your  hearts  and  accept  their 
teachings,  because  they  are  inspired  of  our  Father  in  Heaven.  If, 
as  members  of  the  Church  and  particularly  the  Priesthood,  we  could 
only  have  the  faith  and  the  assurance  and  the  conviction  that  these 
brethren  are  prophets,  seers,  and  revelators,  I  believe  we  would 
pay  more  attention  to  what  they  tell  us.  Yes,  spirituality  is  as  es- 
sential to  a  man's  soul  as  vitamins  are  to  his  body. 

Adult  Members  of  Aaronic  Priesthood 

As  I  look  into  this  great  congregation  tonight,  I  have  been 
thinking  of  the  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  many  of 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


75 


them  who  have  never  been  inside  this  building.  If  we  could  move 
this  body  of  men  from  this  building  on  out  to  the  north  and  then 
fill  it  again  and  again  with  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
in  the  Church  ,  we  could  fill  this  building  just  as  full  as  it  is  now,  seven 
or  eight  times.  You  know,  I'm  one  of  those  who  believes  the  Lord 
loves  these  men.  I  believe  their  wives  love  them  just  as  much  as 
our  wives  love  us,  and  their  children  love  them  as  much  as  our 
children  love  us.  If  you  had  a  wayward  son,  would  you  love  him? 
Well,  I  only  have  one  son,  and  I  love  him  very  much,  and  if  he  were 
a  wayward  son,  I  believe  I  would  love  him  just  the  same.  What 
makes  you  think  that  the  Lord  doesn't  love  his  wayward  sons? 

Need  for  Guidance 

Many  of  these  men  haven't  the  strength  to  get  back  into  activity 
in  the  Church  on  their  own  power.  Therefore,  they  do  need  your 
guidance,  your  encouragement  and  your  patience;  yes,  I'd  say  they 
need  you.  They  need  someone  to  call  on  them,  someone  to 
come  and  see  them,  someone  to  encourage  them  and  help 
them  forsake  those  things  that  are  keeping  them  out  of  the 
Church.  The  Lord  has  asked  us  to  repent,  he  has  asked  all 
of  us  to  repent,  and  then  he  said;  If  you  truly  repent  and  come 
unto  me,  and  forsake  those  things  that  you're  doing,  or  that  you 
have  done  that  you  shouldn't  have  done,  I  will  forgive  you  and 
remember  them  no  more.  But  he  wants  us  to  truly  repent.  I  believe 
these  men  would  love  that  privilege.  Well,  you  may  say,  they  have 
the  privilege.  Why  don't  they  take  it?  Well,  they  haven't  the 
strength  yet;  until  they  can  absorb  some  of  the  teachings  of  the 
Church  and  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which  they  haven't  had 
for  a  long  time.  They  have  perhaps  become  spiritually  weak, 
because  of  habits  that  have  kept  them  from  church  activity  or  for 
other  reasons.  They're  not  strong  enough  yet  to  put  those  things 
aside.  And  then  you  must  remember  that  many  of  these  boys  and 
men  have  not  been  taught  in  their  homes.  As  Bishop  Wirthlin  told 
us,  they  were  not  taught  their  many  duties  when  they  were  young. 
I  believe  there  are  many  fathers  in  the  Church  today,  although  I 
think  they're  not  justified,  that  are  leaving  the  teachings  of  their 
sons  to  you  brethren  entirely.  If  you  fail,  where  are  they  going  to 
get  those  teachings?  Many  adult  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood, 
after  they  come  back  into  activity,  are  so  delighted  and  so  anxious 
that  they  put  a  great  deal  of  enthusiasm  in  their  work. 

I  talked  to  a  brother,  who  is  now  a  bishop  but  who  was  an 
adult  member  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  five  or  six  years  ago.  I 
couldn't  help  but  recognize  the  joy  and  the  happiness  that  has  come 
into  that  man's  soul.  I  talked  to  his  wife.  She  didn't  have  the  ability 
nor  the  words  to  tell  me  how  grateful  they  were.  Yes,  sometimes  I 
think  they're  perhaps  more  grateful  than  some  of  the  rest  of  us,  after 
the  spirit  has  touched  their  souls  and  they've  accepted  it. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


Priesthood  Meeting 


Workers  Needed 


Someone  has  said,  "He  who  knows  books  knows  much,  he  who 
knows  nature  knows  more,  but  he  who  knows  God  has  reached  the 
goal  of  human  wisdom."  Many  of  these  men  are  brilliant  men,  in 
their  own  right,  successful  men  in  their  own  business,  and  they  do 
know  books,  but  they  have  perhaps  neglected  their  knowledge  of 
God.  As  leaders,  I  hope  that  you  make  yourselves  acquainted  with 
these  thousands  of  adult  members.  It's  too  big  a  load  for  just  two 
or  three  in  each  ward,  or  a  dozen  or  so  in  each  stake.  There  are 
many  stakes  in  the  Church  that  have  four  or  five  or  six  hundred, 
and  some  stakes  with  even  seven  or  eight  hundred  adult  members 
of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Do  you  know  how  many  men  could  be 
called  to  work  with  a  group  like  that,  a  group  of  five  or  six  hundred 
men?  You  can't  preach  to  these  men  in  Sacrament  meetings,  because 
they're  not  there.  You  don't  get  them  into  your  priesthood  quorum 
meetings  because  they  don't  come  out.  Therefore  we  must  put  the 
shotgun  method  away.  We  must  now  have  individual  contact  and 
use  the  rifle  method  where  we  can  go  in  and  teach  those  men  the 
principles  of  the  gospel,  the  teachings  that  you  and  I  were  fortunate 
and  blessed  enough  to  have  in  our  lives,  but  which  many  of  them, 
not  of  their  own  fault,  have  been  denied. 

Oh,  I  hope  that  you'll  somehow  or  other  organize  yourselves 
that  you'll  be  able  to  touch  at  least  one  man.  The  Lord  has  said 
to  us,  "And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor  all  your  days  in  crying 
repentance  unto  this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one  soul  unto  me, 
how  great  shall  be  your  joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father! 
And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great  with  one  soul  that  you  have 
brought  unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Father,  how  great  will  be 
your  joy  if  you  should  bring  many  souls  unto  me!" 


Now  fathers,  how  close  are  you  staying  to  your  own  sons,  so 
that  the  group  of  adult  members  will  not  be  increased?  Do  you 
fathers  have  close  relationship  with  your  own  sons?  Can  your  sons 
come  to  you  and  tell  you  all  about  their  problems?  Oh,  I  feel  sorry 
for  a  boy  that  can't  go  to  his  dad  and  tell  him  all  about  his  mistakes, 
all  about  his  sorrows,  and  all  about  his  problems.  I  think  that  that 
kind  of  relationship,  in  not  being  able  to  become  close  to  a  father, 
can  only  tend  to  bring  that  boy,  perhaps,  more  delinquent  than  ever. 
I  know  boys  will  make  mistakes,  but  oh,  I  feel  that  if  they  can  go 
to  their  dads  and  talk  over  those  mistakes  with  them,  that  those 
boys  will  be  stronger  and  will  not  repeat  their  mistakes  too  many 
times,  if  they  can  come  to  their  dads.  Do  you  dare  to  go  to  bed  at 
nights  and  not  know  where  your  sons  are?  Do  you  know  whom 
they're  with,  or  where  they  are,  or  do  you  know  when  they're 
coming  home? 


Fathers  and  Sons 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON  77 


Awhile  ago  I  was  at  a  dinner  party  one  night,  and  about  eleven 
or  eleven-thirty,  the  telephone  rang  and  one  of  the  men  was  called 
to  the  phone.  We  couldn't  hear  the  conversation  on  both  sides,  but 
we  could  hear  what  he  had  to  say.  When  he  took  his  seat  his  wife 
said  to  him,  "who  was  that  calling?"  He  said,  "Well  that  was  our 
son  John.  He  just  called  to  tell  us  that  he  wouldn't  be  home  at 
twelve  o'clock."  He  told  his  father  he  was  going  to  a  waffle  dinner 
after  the  show  or  the  dance,  I  don't  recall  which  it  was,  but  he  called 
to  tell  his  father  that  he  wouldn't  be  home  until  twelve-thirty  or 
one  o'clock.  I  turned  to  that  man  and  said,  "How  old  is  your  boy?" 
I  thought  he  was  a  youngster  calling  up.  He  said,  "He's  twenty- 
three  years  old."  I  thought,  what  a  marvelous  relationship,  what  a 
marvelous  thing  that  this  boy  would  take  the  time  and  make  the 
effort  to  call  his  father  at  a  party  to  tell  him  that  he  would  be  a  little 
later  than  usual. 

Only  that  father  said,  "We  can  go  home  now  tonight,  and  we 
don't  need  to  worry  about  our  children.  They're  going  to  be  home 
at  a  certain  time,  or  they're  going  to  call  us."  Well,  there  isn't 
anything  wrong  in  that  kind  of  discipline.  It  isn't  because  it's  strict 
discipline,  it's  because  there  is  an  understanding  between  father  and 
son. 

Close  Relationship 

And  then,  fathers,  do  your  boys,  at  night,  when  they  do  come 
home,  come  into  your  bedroom  and  kiss  you  goodnight?  Sometimes 
we  have  encouraged  our  daughters  to  do  that  with  our  wives,  their 
mothers,  but  we  fathers  perhaps  have  not  practised  that  with  our 
own  sons.  What's  wrong  with  a  son  coming  into  his  dad's  bedroom 
at  niqht  and  sitting  on  the  side  of  his  bed  and  telling  him  how  he 
liked  his  girl,  or  how  the  party  was,  or  how  they  got  along  tonight. 
Don't  you  think  if  a  boy  will  do  that,  don't  you  think  he'll  go  into 
his  own  bedroom  and  kneel  down  and  say  his  prayer  after  he  has 
said  goodnight  to  his  dad?  Don't  you  think  if  he  is  that  close  to  his 
dad,  that  he  can  pour  his  heart  out  to  you  after  he  sometimes  stubs 
his  toe  or  makes  a  mistake?  I  don't  like  to  see  any  boy  or  for  that 
matter  any  man,  live  with  his  mistakes,  because  I  think  it  eats  the 
best  out  of  him  that  is  in  him.  Oh,  I  hope  he  can  go  to  his  father  and 
tell  his  father  about  his  problems,  and  about  his  mistakes  and  about 
his  sorrows.  There  is  no  reason,  fathers,  why  we  can't  be  that  close  to 
our  sons.  Does  your  boy  kiss  you  goodnight?  Does  your  boy  kiss  you 
when  you  leave  in  the  day,  or  when  you  leave  for  a  trip?  Or  have 
we  left  that  to  our  wives  and  our  daughters?  I'll  confess  that  I  was 
guilty  of  that  for  years,  but  I'm  happy,  so  happy  somehow  or  other 
that  I've  changed  that  in  my  own  life.  I'm  crlad  that  I  can  kiss  my 
boy  when  he  comes  around  me.  I'm  glad  I  can  kiss  him  when  I 
leave;  I'm  glad  I  can  kiss  him  when  I  return.  I  don't  want  to  be 
denied  that  beautiful  blessing.  I  recommend  to  you  fathers  that 
you  start  living  a  little  closer  to  your  sons,  that  you  love  them,  that 


78  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Saturday,  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 

you  are  not  so  strict  with  them  that  they  can't  come  to  you  with 
anything. 

Well,  brothers,  I  didn't  intend  to  say  those  things  to  you.  May 
the  Lord  bless  you  that  you  may  try  and  stay  close  to  your  sons,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Delta  Phi  Returned  Missionary  Chorus  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  joined  the  congregation  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Now  Let  Us  Rejoice,"  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Director  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  conducting. 


ELDER  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren:  It  is  again  a  great  opportunity  to  face  you  and 
to  try  to  speak  to  you  for  a  few  moments.  You  who  bear  the  priest- 
hood of  God,  there  is  in  you,  and  the  rest  of  us  who  bear  this 
priesthood,  the  greatest  power  and  force  that  there  is  in  the  world. 
That  power  and  that  force  when  understood  and  exercised,  in- 
volves the  control  of  all  the  elements  that  go  to  make  up  the  uni- 
verse; compared  to  that  power  and  that  control  the  H-bomb  is  a 
mere  tiny  firecracker. 

Guiding  Principles 

There  are  certain  great  principles  that  underlie  our  existence 
here  on  this  planet  and  that  are  to  be  guiding  principles  for  us.  First 
there  is  the  great  principle  of  free  agency  given  to  us  before  the 
world  was.  Because  of  the  exercise  of  that  free  agency,  Satan  re- 
belled and  has  since  fought  from  the  day  of  the  great  council  in 
heaven  until  now,  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation  that  was  submitted 
by  the  Son  and  adopted  by  the  Father.  The  principle  of  free  agency 
is  fundamental  to  all  of  our  freedom  and  all  of  our  living. 

One  of  the  first  commandments  given  to  Adam  relating  to 
mortal  life,  perhaps  the  first  that  we  have  record  of,  was  to  multiply 
and  replenish  the  earth.  And  behind  that  great  principle  and  that 
commandment  lies  the  eternity  of  the  marriage  covenant,  the  crea- 
tion of  bodies  to  tabernacle  spirits  that  our  Heavenly  Father  created, 
and  to  bring  them  to  this  earth  so  that  they  might  have  mortal 
bodies,  live  according  to  the  commandments  of  God,  that  they  might 
in  their  next  estate  begin  and  go  on  through  all  the  eternities  in 
eternal  progression. 

Another  great  principle  to  which  I  would  like  to  call  your  at- 
tention is  the  command  given  to  Adam  when  he  left  the  Garden 
of  Eden:  "By  the  sweat  of  thy  face  thou  shalt  eat  bread."  This  is 
the  great  law  of  work,  and  the  Lord  has  given  us  no  greater  blessing, 
given  us  no  commandment  that  will  be  more  helpful  in  carrying  out 


ELDER  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


79 


his  plan  than  this  law  of  work.  In  addition  to  that,  he  gave  us  the 
gospel  which  has  been  with  us  since  the  days  of  Adam,  in  one  form 
or  another. 

Conditions  in  the  World 

Now,  my  brethren,  I  wish  merely  to  invite  your  attention  to 
what  is  going  on  in  the  world  today.  The  principle  of  free  agency 
has  been  virtually  blotted  out  among  140  or  150  millions  of  people, 
and  that  virus,  the  destruction  of  free  agency,  has  been  scattered 
over  the  world  as  if  by  the  wind  until  today  it  affects  us  here  in  in- 
creasingly growing  proportions.  Our  agency  is  being  destroyed,  and 
when  it  is  gone  then  will  your  freedom  to  worship,  your  freedom 
to  believe  what  you  wish  to  believe,  your  freedom  to  build  your 
own  lives,  your  freedom  to  teach  your  children,  this  and  all  other 
freedoms,  will  go  with  it. 

The  commandment  to  multiply  and  replenish  the  earth  is  being 
defeated  by  those  ideologies  which  are  destroying  the  liberties  of 
the  peoples  of  the  world  because  they  are  breaking  down  the  mar- 
riage relationship.  They  are  encouraging  illicit  relations;  they  are 
taking  over  the  children  and  instructing  them  to  that  import.  They 
are  teaching  children  only  what  they  want  them  to  know  for  their 
own  purposes. 

Labor,  we  already  know  enough  about  that,  even  in  this 
country — less  work  more  pay,  less  work  more  pay,  less  work  more 
pay.  Men  should  have,  the  Lord  intends  they  should  have,  a  proper 
return  for  their  labor,  but  the  Lord  does  not  countenance  in  any 
way  my  stealing  from  my  neighbor,  whether  I  go  out  and  steal  a 
horse  from  his  barn  or  whether  I,  instead  of  working,  loaf  down  in 
the  field  where  my  employer  can  not  see  me. 

And  the  gospel,  the  standards  of  the  gospel,— well,  take  up 
any  national  magazine,  look  at  the  ads  and,  if  you  can  stand  the 
filth,  read  some  of  the  stories — they  are,  in  their  expressed  and  sug- 
gestive standards  of  life,  destructive  of  the  very  foundations  of  our 
society.  Hardly  an  advertisement,  that  is  an  exaggeration,  but  many 
advertisements  carry  illustrations  that  are  intended  to  suggest  and 
do  suggest  illicit  sexual  relations. 

Work  of  the  Devil 

All  of  this,  brethren,  if  you  consider  it,  and  I  am  only  sug- 
gesting, falls  into  one  pattern.  It  is  the  pattern  of  one  great  mind,  a 
near  divine  intellect.  It  is  the  work  of  the  devil.  He  is  back  where 
he  was  at  the  time  of  the  great  council  in  Heaven  when  he  would 
have  taken  away  the  free  agency  of  men,  save  them  in  their  sins, 
indeed  there  would  have  been  no  sin;  thus  under  his  plan  there  would 
have  been  no  development,  under  his  plan  eternal  progression  would 
have  been  ruled  out.  We  would  have  become  mere  automatons, 
living  and  breathing,  and  eating  if  we  could  get  something  to  eat, 
and  breeding  like  animals.  What  are  we  going  to  do  about  it, 
brethren?   I  say  to  you  again,  that  the  power  of  the  priesthood 


80  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Saturday,  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 

which  we  hold  can  conquer  all  of  this,  but  we  can  hot  do  it  as 
individuals  working  alone. 

Power  to  Save  the  World 

And  so  I  come  back  to  my  theme  song  in  all  of  these  meetings: 
We  must  have  unity.  We  must  work  together.  We  must  submerge 
our  individual  likes  and  dislikes.  We  must  follow  the  plan  that 
has  been  made  and  given  to  us.  And  if  we  do,  then  the  body  of  the 
priesthood  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  can 
work,  not  only  miracles,  but  can  revolutionize  the  world.  Unity 
cannot  be  manifest  nor  exercised  by  fault  finding,  back  biting,  com- 
plaining about  those  in  authority  over  us,  substituting  our  ways 
for  the  ways  which  are  given  to  us  by  those  who  are  our  leaders, 
finding  this  excuse  and  that  excuse  for  not  doing  what  we  are  asked 
to  do.  Now,  brethren,  I  appeal  to  you  as  earnestly  as  I  know  how, 
and  again  I  urge  the  same  appeal  I  have  made  here,  conference  after 
conference,  for  eighteen  years.  Be  united,  united  in  our  wards,  united 
in  our  quorums,  united  in  our  stakes.  Support  the  men  whole- 
heartedly, fully,  unequivocally,  unhesitatingly  for  whom  we  hold 
up  our  hands  and  vote  at  our  various  conferences.  And  if  we  do 
not  do  this,  then  what  right  have  we  to  ask  the  Lord  to  bless  us. 

Now  I  know,  brethren,  I  am  talking  to  people  who  do  most  if 
not  all  of  these  things,  and  when  I  speak  as  I  do,  I  do  not  intend  to 
speak  complainingly.  I  am  only  trying  to  point  out  the  condition  of 
this  world  as  it  seems  to  me,  and  I  am  trying  to  tell  you  what  I 
know  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  live,  that  the  power  which  we  have 
if  we  would  merely  magnify  our  priesthood,  will  save  the  world. 
May  God  give  us  the  strength  so  to  do  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Though  Brother  Clark  felt  a  little  irked  when  his  assigned  duty 
to  direct  was  slightly  modified,  he  has  set  a  good  example  to  us  all. 
He  did  as  he  was  told. 

There  are  in  attendance  tonight,  as  reported,  a  total  of  15,050 
members  of  the  Priesthood — 10,250  in  seats,  aisles,  and  doorways  of 
the  Tabernacle;  300  in  the  Baptistry;  2,200  in  the  Assembly  Hall; 
1,000  in  the  Barratt  Hall,  and  an  estimated  1,300  on  the  grounds. 

Six  months  ago,  we  were  blessed  with  the  presence  of  our  be- 
loved President,  George  Albert  Smith.  Tonight  we  are  deprived 
of  his  earthly  companionship.  How  uncertain  life  is.  The  silent, 
inaudible  foot  of  time  is  marching  on  bringing  each  of  us  nearer  and 
nearer  to  the  end  of  our  earthly  careers.  Before  his  passing  there  were 
a  few  items  scheduled  for  presntation  at  this  priesthood  meeting,  and 
I  shall  just  mention  them  briefly  before  making  a  few  concluding  re- 
marks. 

Missionary  Recommendations 
One  relates  to  the  interviewing  of  prospective  missionaries  by 
bishops.   Will  you  please  be  more  careful  about  recommending  men 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


81 


about  whose  health  may  be  a  question.  Missionary  work  is  strenuous 
when  it  is  done  properly,  and  we  do  not  like  missionaries  to  go  out 
and  not  do  it  properly.  If  there  is  any  question  about  their  health, 
please  sit  down  and  have  a  talk  with  them  and  tell  them  that  their 
services  here  in  the  home  missions  will  be  just  as  acceptable  to  the 
Lord  as  their  labors  out  in  a  foreign  mission.  The  Lord  would  like 
them  to  live  and  serve.  Do  not  put  them  under  an  environment  that 
will  probably  aggravate  some  physical  weakness.  It  is  surprising  how 
eagerly  the  young  women  and  some  married  women  seek  calls  to  go 
on  missions.  We  commend  them  for  it,  but  the  responsibility  of 
proclaiming  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  rests  upon  the  priesthood  of 
the  Church.  It  is  quite  possible  now,  in  view  of  the  present  emer- 
gency, that  we  shall  have  to  return  to  the  standard  age  for  young 
women,  which  is  twenty-three.  The  last  few  months  we  have  been 
calling  young  women  twenty-one  years  of  age  when  they  have  special 
qualifications.  Bishops  and  presidents  of  stakes  will  please  bear  in 
mind  that  from  now  on  they  should  not  recommend  young  women 
under  the  age  of  twenty-three.  That  is  merely  returning  to  the 
standard  already  approved  by  the  brethren.  Now,  that  does  not 
mean  that  the  young  girls  who  have  already  received  calls  or  whom 
you  have  already  interviewed  who  are  only  twenty-one  may  not 
have  their  recommendations  completed.  In  this  connection,  we  ad- 
vise that  mothers  who  have  dependent  children,  that  means  children 
who  are  in  their  teens  or  under  or  unmarried,  should  not  be  called  on 
missions  even  though  the  grandparents  are  willing  to  take  care  of 
the  children.  No  nobler  work  in  this  world  can  be  performed  by  any 
mother  than  to  rear  and  love  the  children  with  whom  God  has  blessed 
her.  That  is  her  duty,  and  that  is  far  greater  than  going  out  into  the 
world  to  proclaim  the  gospel,  because  somebody  else  can  do  that 
who  does  not  bear  the  responsibility  of  rearing  and  loving  the  chil- 
dren who  call  her  mother. 

Temple  Workers 

Last  evening  we  held  a  long  meeting  with  temple  presidents  and 
out  of  that  meeting  comes  this  recommendation,  and  there  are  strong 
reasons  back  of  it,  brethren!  Will  the  bishops  please  take  more  care 
in  recommending  members  to  do  temple  work,  to  perform  temple  ordi- 
nances. Now  the  great  majority  of  those  who  are  going  through 
the  temple  are  worthy,  and  it  is  a  glorious  work.  But  if  one  or  two 
unworthy  get  into  the  company  and  make  some  objectionable  remark 
or  leave  an  objectionable  sign  somewhere  it  tends  to  retard  the  spirit 
and  to  discourage  some  young  man  or  young  woman  who  came  an- 
ticipating a  glorious  spiritual  feast. 

Sunday  Schools 

Next,  it  has  already  been  recommended  that  Sunday  Schools  be 
not  dismissed  on  quarterly  conference  day.  If  the  conference  is  held 
in  the  ward  house,  of  necessity,  Sunday  School  will  have  to  be  ad- 


82  GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 

Saturday,  April  7  Priesthood  Meeting 

journed,  but  that  is  the  only  exception.  The  reason  for  that  will  be 
readily  seen  if  I  read  you  the  following  letter  without  giving  the 
name. 

"Last  Sunday  I  was  in  X  town  visiting  my  son.  Feeling  that  I 
should  like  to  visit  a  Sunday  School  in  X  town  on  Easter,  I  drove 
there.  Calling  at  the  home  of  a  friend  I  was  informed  that  stake  con- 
ference was  being  held  and  that  Sunday  School  had  been  cancelled. 
I  informed  the  lady  of  the  house  that  Sunday  Schools  are  conducted 
on  conference  Sundays.  She  then  called  one  of  the  Sunday  Schol 
teachers  and  was  given  definite  assurance  that  no  Sunday  School 
service  would  be  conducted  in  that  ward.  Three  women  in  the 
vicinity  dressed  their  little  girls  in  their  Easter  outfits  and  sent  them 
to  the  Community  Church." 

Inspiration  of  Priesthood  Meeting 
Now,  just  a  few  concluding  remarks:  One  of  our  business  men, 
non-member,  who  attended  the  funeral  this  afternoon,  looked  over 
the  audience  and  said,  "Look  at  that  audience.  It  cannot  be  duplicat- 
ed anywhere  else  in  the  world."  I  wish  it  were  possible  for  him  to 
see  this  audience  tonight.  Ten  thousand  men  who  hold  the  priest- 
hood of  God.  What  an  inspiration!  What  an  opportunity  is  ours 
to  succeed  in  life! 

Bishop  Wirthlin  referred  to  some  who  are  discouraged.  We 
have  heard  from  Bishop  Richards  also,  and  others,  young  men  now 
being  called  into  the  field  and  into  the  armed  forces,  so  many  young 
women  without  close  companionship  of  young  men  of  their  age,  some 
entered  in  their  school  and  missions  are  discouraged.  But  let  me 
just  give  two  suggestions  that  will  lead  to  success  in  any  boy's  life  or 
any  woman's  life,  will  lead  to  the  success  of  any  person  in  the  world, 
and  particularly  those  who  hold  the  priesthood. 

Attendance  to  Duty 
The  first  is,  attend  to  the  immediate  duty  in  hand.  No  person 
living  in  this  Church  can  say  he  or  she  has  not  an  immediate  duty. 
It  may  be  attendance  at  a  priesthod  meeting;  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
or  Melchizedek.  It  may  be  fasting  on  the  first  Sunday  and  giving 
fast  offerings  for  the  poor.  Do  not  say  those  are  insignificant  duties; 
it  may  be  the  duty  of  attending  worship  on  the  Sabbath  day,  either 
in  Sunday  School,  Priesthood  meeting  or  Sacrament  meeting  or  Mu- 
tual at  night;  it  may  be  visiting  a  sick  neighbor;  or  it  is  the  payment 
of  tithing.  Whatever  the  immedate  duty,  perform  it.  That  is  the 
first  step. 

Outside  of  the  Church  you  have  a  problem  before  you  in  your 
business  or  in  social  or  political  circles.  Before  you  take  that  step 
ahead,  ask  yourself  whether  you  can  justify  taking  it  if  you  were 
called  into  the  presence  of  your  Father  in  Heaven.  If  you  can,  take 
it.  One  of  our  American  writers,  some  do  not  call  him  a  poet,  ex- 
pressed this  thought  very  impressively: 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


83 


Who  does  his  task  from  day  to  day, 
And  meets  whatever  comes  his  way 
Believing  God  has  willed  it  so 
Has  found  true  greatness  here  below. 
Who  guards  his  post  no  matter  where 
Believing  God  must  need  him  there, 
Although  but  lowly  toil  it  be 
Has  risen  to  nobility. 
For  great  and  low  there's  but  one  test, 
'Tis  that  each  one  will  do  his  best. 
Who  works  with  all  the  strength  he  can 
Shall  never  die  in  debt  to  man. 

Love  for  Fellowmen 

The  second  great  guide  to  success  has  been  illustrated  during 
the  last  week  particularly,  or  last  few  days,  more  impressibly  right 
in  our  midst  than  perhaps  we  have  ever  seen  it  before  and  it  may  be 
a  long  time  before  we  see  it  again.  It  is  the  power  of  the  greatest 
thing  in  all  the  world — love  for  fellow  men.  The  poet  Browning 
who  has  Paracelsus  say  to  his  friend  Festus,  "There  was  a  time  when 
I  was  happy;  the  secret  of  life  was  in  that  happiness." 

"When,  when  was  that?"  asked  Festus.  "All  I  hope  that  answer 
will  decide." 

Paracelsus:  "When,  but  the  time  I  vowed  myself  to  man?" 

Festus:  "Great  God,  thy  judgments  are  unscrutable." 

And  then  Paracelsus  concluded:  "The  answer  to  the  passionate 
longings  of  the  human  heart  for  fulness  is  this:  Live  in  all  things 
outside  yourself  by  love  and  you  will  have  joy.  That  is  the  life  of 
God;  it  ought  to  be  our  life.  In  him  it  is  accomplished  and  perfect; 
but  in  all  created  things  it  is  a  lesson  learned  slowly  and  through 
difficulty." 

I  will  conclude  that  thought  by  reading  to  you  that  wonderful 
statement  of  Paul  on  love.  ".  .  .  charity  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ,  and 
it  endureth  forever."  (Moroni  7:47)  Love  suffereth  long  and  is  kind. 
Love  envyeth  not,  love  vaunteth  not  itself,  is  not  puffed  up,  doth  not 
behave  itself  unseemly,  seeketh  not  her  own,  is  not  easily  provoked, 
thinketh  no  evil,  rejoiceth  not  in  iniquity  but  rejoiceth  in  the  truth, 
beareth  all  things,  believeth  all  things,  hopeth  all  things,  endureth  all 
things.  Love  never  fails." 

God  help  us  to  exemply  in  our  lives  that  love  which  was  so  well 
exemplified,  ideally  exemplified,  in  the  life  of  our  beloved  leader. 
President  George  Albert  Smith,  who  sought  to  approach  the  love  of 
Christ,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Delta  Phi  Returned  Missionary  Chorus  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  sang  the  hymn,  "Come  Dearest  Lord." 

President  Albert  I.  Morgan,  President  of  the  Spokane  Stake 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday,  April  8,  1951. 

Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  Church  of  the  Air  was  pre- 
sented at  8:30  a.m. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  followed  immedi- 
ately thereafter  at  9:00,  continuing  until  9:30,  and  the  regular  session 
of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  10:00  a.m. 

The  great  tabernacle  was  filled  to  capacity  long  before  the  time 
of  commencing  the  Church  of  the  Air  program.  The  Assembly  Hall  on 
the  Tabernacle  grounds  was  also  filled  with  people,  and  many  others 
who  could  not  find  accomodations  in  the  Tabernacle  assembled  in 
the  Barratt  Hall  (60  North  Main  Street),  and  on  the  Tabernacle 
grounds. 

The  Church  of  the  Air  program  was  as  follows: 
CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall, furnished  the  music  for  this  service,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ.  Richard  L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir:  "Sweet  is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air  is  presented  by  CBS  so  that 
men  of  different  faiths  may  bring  their  messages  to  a  nationwide 
congregation  of  worshipers.  Today's  service  comes  to  you  from  the 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL 
in  Salt  Lake  City.  The  speaker  will  be  Stephen  L  Richards,  a  mem- 
ber of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  title  of  Brother  Richards'  talk  is: 
Kinship  of  Spirits.  Music  is  provided  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  under 
the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

The  service  opens  with  a  sacred  song  by  Arkhangelsky,  with 
words  from  the  Psalms:  "Hear  My  Supplication,  O  Lord." 
(Choir:  "Hear  My  Supplication"- — Arkhangelsky.) 

Announcer:  We  now  hear  a  hymn  of  man's  eternal  march, 
with  the  words  of  Eliza  R.  Snow  and  the  music  of  James  McGrana- 
han,  as  arranged  by  Evan  Stephens.  It  looks  back  to  a  time  now 
closed  to  the  memory  of  man  and  forward  to  an  eternal  future,  and 
asks  with  earnest  searching:  "In  Thy  holy  habitation  did  my  spirit 
once  reside?  In  my  first  primeval  childhood  was  I  nurtured  near  Thy 
side?" — Richard  P.  Condie  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sing  "O  My 
Father." 

(Choir:  "O  My  Father" — arr.  Stephens) 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 


85 


Announcer:  We  shall  now  hear  on  this  Church  of  the  Air 
service,  Stephen  L  Richards,  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  In 
addition  to  his  service  as  a  religious  leader,  Stephen  L  Richards  has 
distinguished  himself  as  a  lawyer,  business  administrator  and  edu- 
cator.  He  has  titled  today's  talk:  Kinship  of  Spirits. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  responsibility  which  comes  to  one  who  is  invited  to  par- 
ticipate on  Columbia's  "Church  of  the  Air"  program  is  very  con- 
siderable. This  occasion  is  projected  as  a  period  of  worship — an 
invitation  to  the  whole  nation,  who  will  listen  in,  to  pause  in  secular 
pursuits  and  contemplate  the  ways  of  God.  To  stimulate  such  spir- 
itual reflection  is  a  task  I  approach  with  the  deepest  humility  for  I 
am  aware  of  the  fact  that  it  is  the  spirit  in  man,  rather  than  the  mind, 
which  must  be  touched  to  bring  divine  worship  into  his  soul. 

Essence  of  Worship 

If  you  and  I,  my  friends,  were  together  in  an  assembly — not  too 
large,  the  task  would  be  easier.  Our  personalities  would  react  on 
each  other;  we  would  say,  "We  could  feel  of  each  other's  spirit," 
and  perhaps  a  bond  of  common  interest  could  be  established  among 
us.  May  it  not  be  that  this  "feeling  of  each  other's  spirit"  is  of  the 
very  essence  of  our  joint  worship? 

It  is  true  that  declaration  of  the  Word  and  exhortation  have 
their  place, — an  important  place  in  religious  services,  but  I  doubt 
if  there  is  anything  which  contributes  more  to  our  spiritual  uplift, 
and  our  good  resolutions  too,  than  the  stimulus  of  association  of  kin- 
dred spirits. 

I  believe  God  planned  that  it  should  be  so.  We  are  all  His 
spirit  children  in  antemortal  life.  We  come  to  earth  "to  be  taber- 
nacled in  the  flesh."  In  earth  life  we  are,  in  large  measure,  the  crea- 
tures of  our  environment,  but  we  never  entirely  lose  our  spiritual 
investitures.  Perhaps  Shakespeare  had  something  of  this  in  mind 
when  he  made  one  of  his  famous  characters  say,  "There  is  a  divinity 
that  shapes  our  ends,  rough  hew  them  how  we  will."1 

Kinship  of  Spirits 

We  are  told  that  the  Spirit  of  God  always  strives  with  men, 
and  it  is  the  spirit  in  man  which  responds  to  the  extent  to  which  the 
sensitivity  of  the  spirit  has  not  been  drugged  or  killed  by  ignorance 
or  by  infraction  of  His  laws.  It  is  doubtful,  my  brethren  and  sisters 
in  the  family  of  our  Eternal  Parent,  that  anything  is  more  important 


'Hamlet,  Act  5,  Scene  2 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

and  vital  to  peaceful  association  in  the  world  than  a  recognition  and 
acceptance  of  this  kinship  in  the  spirits  of  men. 

Herein  lies  a  solid,  understandable  foundation  for  the  spiritual 
brotherhood  of  the  world.  It  has  always  seemed  to  me  most  difficult 
to  establish  fraternity  without  paternity.  Surely  those  who  acknowl- 
edge the  Omnipotent  God  to  be  the  Creator  of  the  Universe,  should 
Bind  no  difficulty  in  according  to  Him  His  place  of  distinction  as  the 
Father  of  all  men — "Our  Father  who  is  in  heaven."  How  else 
could  He  be  "Our  Father"  except  as  the  progenitor  of  our  spirits, 
the  begetter  of  that  part  of  us  which  is  deathless  and  immortal? 

How  regrettable  it  is  that  man,  seemingly  oblivious  to  this 
honorable  and  sacred  relationship,  should  profane  His  holy  name 
and  blaspheme  Christ.  Do  you  think  that  a  son  can  damn  his  father 
and  love  him? 

Fatherhood  of  God 

Some  may  say  this  procreation  of  spirits  is  too  realistic,  involv- 
ing an  assumption  of  personality  in  the  Father  inconsonant  with  the 
ethereal  nature  sometimes  ascribed  to  Him.  Don't  you  think,  my 
friends,  that  we  can  safely  rely  on  the  recorded  words  of  His  Son, 
our  elder  brother,  and  the  prophets  in  the  interpretation  of  this  all- 
important  relationship  of  man  to  God?  To  those  acquainted  with  the 
Scriptures  there  is  no  need  for  quotations;  they  are  filled  with  refer- 
ences to  the  veritable  fatherhood  of  God  and  support  for  a  divine 
personality  which,  in  terms  of  human  understanding,  can  be  con- 
ceived only  as  one  in  whose  image  we  are  created. 

It  is  doubtful  if  there  are  any  people  in  the  world  today  who 
retard  more  seriously  the  progress  of  humanity  in  finding  solutions 
for  the  world's  problems,  particularly  the  one  of  living  together  in 
peace,  than  those  who  deny  and  teach  denial  of  the  personality  of 
God  and  His  fatherhood  of  the  spirits  of  men. 

By  so  doing,  they  rob  brotherhood  of  its  firmest  prop,  they  rob 
man  of  the  dignity  of  a  noble  lineage,  and  they  take  from  him  the 
most  impelling  incentives  to  live  to  be  worthy  of  his  inheritance  and 
to  come  back  again  into  the  eternal  presence  of  the  author  of  his  life. 
I  do  not  see  how  it  is  possible  for  men  of  religion  to  do  much  for  this 
sorry  world  unless  they  can  establish  and  re-establish  this  funda- 
mental doctrine  of  the  veritable  fatherhood  of  God. 

Sovereignty  of  Savior  :. 

I  grant  that  good  may  come,  and  does  come,  from  teaching 
and  extolling  the  attributes  of  Deity,  and  particularly  the  virtues 
emanating  from  the  life  and  ministry  of  the  Savior  of  the  world.  His 
incomparable  teachings  to  be  most  effective,  must  be  authentic.  We 
cannot  consistently  worship  at  the  shrine  of  the  attributes  and  deny 
the  sovereignty  of  the  King.  The  Lord  is  a  teacher,  a  persuader,  and 
a  guardian,  but  He  is  first-  of  all  a  creator  and  a  lawgiver,  and  the 
Supreme  Judge  of  all.  He  is  not  only  the  exemplar  of  right;  He  is 
the  author  and  the  source  of  right.  There  is  no  right  that  is  not 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS  87 


compatible  with  His  law  and  His  will.  To  know  His  mind  and  His 
will  should  be  the  quest  of  every  life. 

Spiritual  Natures 

It  is  ordained  that  man  should  have  joy.  Joy  and  happiness  are 
truly  achieved  where  living  conforms  to  law, — divine  law.  Divine 
law  is  spiritual  in  origin  and  application;  its  constraints  and  rewards 
are  likewise  of  a  spiritual  nature.  That  is  why,  if  we  are  to  have 
joyful  living,  we  should  be  ever  conscious  of  our  spiritual  natures 
and  our  lineage  with  the  Father. 

We  keep  alive  this  consciousness  in  prayer  and  spiritual  exer- 
cise. Spiritual  association  is  of  immeasurable  value  in  spiritual 
growth.  Not  infrequently  you  hear  a  man  say,  "I  don't  need  to  go 
to  church.  I  can  worship  in  nature  and  in  the  works  of  creation." 

Such  a  man  discounts  the  value  of  religious  association,  the 
commingling  of  spirits  and  the  interaction  of  personalities.  I  believe 
that  man  has  divine  attributes  emanating  from  divine  lineage.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Father  is  distributed  through  the  Universe,  and  influ- 
ences all  life  and  all  things. 

There  is  a  spirit  in  man  which,  within  the  limitations  of  his 
contacts  in  life,  radiates  from  him  and  touches  the  lives  and  things 
about  him.  This  spirit  may  be  called  personality.  Whatever  it  is 
called,  it  exists  and  it  is  a  potent  force.  When  once  set  in  motion 
it  cannot  well  be  controlled,  but  fortunately  it  is  within  our  power 
to  determine  the  characteristics  which  go  into  the  structure  of  our 
lives  and  thus  determine  the  influences  and  radiations  which  come 
from  us.  Our  living  will  mold  these  characteristics  into  our  lives. 

I  am  well  aware  that  these  are  commonplace  statements.  There 
is  no  novelty  in  them.  Where,  my  friends,  is  there  novelty  in  the 
Word  of  God?  The  only  place  I  have  been  able  to  discover  any 
failure  in  the  Word  is  in  the  novelty  of  man's  interpretations.  The 
Word  of  God  is  not  difficult  to  understand.  It  is  the  words  of  men 
about  God  that  perplex  us. 

Respect  for  Divine  Law 

The  greatest  of  all  knowledge  is  to  know  God,  and  the  greatest 
achievement  of  all  life  is  to  so  live  that  the  Father  can  bestow  His 
highest  blessings  on  us.  The  spiritual  laws  of  the  Universe  are  just 
as  inexorable  as  are  the  laws  of  Nature.  Every  blessing  is  predicated 
on  obedience  to  the  law. 

This  applies  to  a  nation  as  well  as  to  an  individual.  There  can 
be  no  spiritual  growth  in  a  nation  which  does  not  respect  divine 
law,  and  all  nations  will  die  without  spiritual  growth.  Material 
prosperity  alone  will  not  suffice  and  will  not  endure.  The  measure 
and  manifestation  of  spiritual  growth  is  goodness.  So,  my  good 
friends,  the  worship  of  this  hour,  and  all  true  worship,  is  rededica- 
tion  of  self  and  life  to  goodness. 

We  all  know  how  much  the  world  needs  that  dedication  today, 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

but  I  know  of  no  way  of  carrying  forth  the  process  of  spiritual  re- 
generation except  that  which  seems  a  painfully  slow  method  of  each 
person  touching  the  spirit  of  another  with  the  radiation  of  his  own 
innate  goodness.  The  only  thing  that  our  country  has  to  fear  is 
spiritual  disintegration  within  ourselves. 

Absence  of  Spiritual  Kinship 

I  had  a  striking  example  of  the  absence  of  and  the  need  for  the 
recognition  of  spiritual  kinship  in  man  a  few  months  ago  as  I 
traveled  through  the  countries  of  Lebanon,  Syria,  and  Trans  Jordan 
to  Arab  Jerusalem.  I  have  never  seen  before,  except  perhaps  in  East 
Berlin,  such  suspicion,  distrust,  and  enmity  written  on  the  faces  of 
men.  To  an  American  accustomed  to  cordial  greetings  and  friendly 
smiling  faces,  although  sometimes  a  bit  clouded  with  aloofness  and 
pretended  snobbish  indifference  (I  say  pretended  because  I  believe 
that  at  heart  all  Americans  are  friendly  and  cordial),  it  was  a 
distinct  shock  to  see  human  nature  so  perverted  in  the  relations 
which  men  in  the  Lord's  providence  bear  to  each  other. 

This  perversion  was  particularly  noticeable  and  regrettable  in 
Jerusalem,  the  very  land  where  the  Savior  spent  much  of  His  earthly 
life  and  performed  His  transcendent  mission.  The  intense  and  cruel 
animosities  built  up  between  the  peoples  of  this  so-called  Holy  Land 
were  a  most  painful  refutation  of  everything  that  was  taught  and 
practiced  by  the  Prince  of  Peace.  I  could  not  discover  even  a  vestige 
of  adherance  to  His  marvelous  doctrine  which  He  left  with  His  dis- 
ciples in  that  loving  declaration,  "Except  ye  are  one  ye  are  not  mine." 

Remedy  for  Sick  World 

Do  you  think,  my  friends,  that  such  a  sickly  spiritual  world  can 
be  cured  by  the  mere  external  application  of  economic  salves?  I 
know  we  all  wish  and  pray  that  the  underprivileged  and  distressed 
peoples  of  the  world  might  have  food,  raiment,  and  shelter;  and  I 
believe  that  most  of  us  are  willing  to  sacrifice  to  that  end. 

I  saw  the  dire  need  for  relief  in  the  terrible  conditions  prevailing 
in  the  camps  of  Palestinian  refugees  around  the  big  cities  of  the 
Near  East,  but  I  am  just  as  sure  as  that  I  speak  to  you  this  day  that 
there  is  one,  and  only  one  remedy  which  can  bring  complete  re- 
covery— and  that  remedy  is  of  the  spirit.  I  give  first  place  in  such 
remedy  to  the  teachings  of  the  Lord,  some  of  which  I  have  tried, 
very  inadequately,  to  outline  for  you  today. 

The  Lord  keep  us  humble,  free  from  arrogance  and  self-suf- 
ficiency. May  we  never  forget  that  He  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits, 
that  our  lineage  is  noble,  that  life  is  not  cheap,  and  that  the  kinship 
of  spirits  is  the  foundation  of  brotherhood.  We  long  for  peace;  we 

firay  for  the  enduring  peace  of  goodness  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
esus  Christ.  Amen. 

(Choir:  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings"  by  Parley  P.  Pratt, 
;arr.  Cornwall.  2  verses.) 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST  89 


Announcer:  We  have  heard  the  Tabernacle  Choir  recall  a 
hymn  of  a  promised  time,  of  brotherhood  and  peace,  "Come,  O  Thou 
King  of  Kings,  We've  waited  long  for  Thee." 

And  now  the  Choir  closes  this  service  with  an  anthem  by 
Tertius  Noble:  "Souls  of  the  Righteous  in  the  hand  of  God." 

(Choir:  "Souls  of  the  Righteous"- — Noble) 

Theme:  Organ  and  humming  choir:  "Sweet  is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending  Columbia's  Church  of 
the  Air,  coming  to  you  from  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square, 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  The 
speaker  was  Stephen  L  Richards,  lawyer,  and  religious  leader,  who 
is  a  member  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Music  for  the  broadcast  was 
provided  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

Immediately  following  the  conclusion  of  the  Church  of  the  Air 
broadcast,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  presented  the  regular 
Sunday  morning  broadcast  from  9:00  to  9:30  A.M. 

This  broadcast,  which  was  presented  through  the  courtesy  and 
facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System's  coast-to-coast  net- 
work throughout  the  United  States,  was  written  and  announced  by 
Richard  L.  Evans  and  originated  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City. 
The  program  was  as  follows: 

(Organ  began  playing  "As  the  Dew,"  and  on  signal  the  organ 
and  choir  commenced  singing  the  hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the  second  line,  and  hum- 
ming to  end  of  the  verse  for  announcer's  background. ) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome  you  within  these  walls  with 
music  and  the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of  the  West. 

The  Columbia  Broadcasting  System  and  its  affiliated  stations 
bring  you  at  this  hour  another  presentation  from  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by 
Richard  Evans. 

We  open  with  a  worshipful  chorus  from  the  writings  of  Randall 
Thompson:  "Alleluia." 

(Choir:  "Alleluia"- — Thompson) 

Announcer:  From  among  some  fifty  Psalm  settings  by  Benedetto 
Marcello,  Frank  Asper  selects  an  exalted  theme:  "The  Heavens 
Declare  the  Glory  of  God,  and  the  firmament  sheweth  His  handi- 
work." 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Second  Day 

(Organ:  "The  Heavens  Declare" — Marcello) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir  turns  now  on  Temple  Square 
to  one  of  the  characteristic  choral  expressions  of  the  eminent  Aus- 
tralian composer,  Cyril  Jenkins:  "Out  of  the  Silence  wake  me  a 
song,  wake  me  a  hymn  whose  sounds  are  like  shadows  soft  and 
dim." — "Out  of  the  Silence." 

(Choir:  "Out  of  the  Silence" — Jenkins) 

Announcer:  From  the  quiet  color  of  the  closing  day,  Charles  A. 
Stebbins  has  given  us  a  thoughtful  devotional  theme  which  Frank 
Asper  presents  as  his  next  organ  offering:  "At  Dusk." 

(Organ:  "At  Dusk"- — Stebbins) 

Announcer:  Some  men  live  blessedly  long,  and  richly  round  out 
a  fulness  of  years.  Some  are  taken  sooner.  But  no  matter  how  long 
we  are  allowed  to  live  in  this  life,  we  are  all  faced  with  some  un- 
certainties, and  we  are  none  of  us  free  from  some  troubles,  some 
sorrows,  some  problems  and  disappointments.  We  are  all  faced  with 
actual  or  possible  illness  or  accident,  with  misfortune  or  failure  or 
the  fear  of  failure,  and  with  the  troubles  of  the  times.  We  are  some- 
times subject  to  discouragement  and  depression  of  spirit.  We  are 
all  sometimes  subject  to  loss  of  loved  ones — and  to  a  long  list  of  other 
unwanted  intrusions  upon  our  peace  and  plans  and  purposes.  If  we 
think  there  are  those  who  are  free  from  all  such  realities  and  reverses, 
it  is  likely  because  we  don't  know  enough  about  them — because  we 
don't  know  what  is  hidden  in  their  hearts.  But  fortunately  in  facing 
life,  we  need  not  be  left  alone.  Fortunately  there  is  the  help  and  the 
comfort  and  the  counsel  of  friends  and  family  and  others;  and  for- 
tunately there  is  help  beyond  the  help  of  human  hands.  When,  for 
our  troubled  hearts  and  perplexed  thoughts  and  weary  searchings, 
and  stubborn  ailments  and  gnawing  anxieties  we  need  higher  help, 
there  is  the  sustaining,  strengthening  power  of  prayer.  It  would  be 
terrible  to  feel  alone  in  life;  it  would  be  terrible  to  face  any  serious 
situation  without  the  privilege  of  approaching  Him  in  whose  image 
men  were  made  and  who  is  mindful  of  the  men  He  made.  In  every 
problem  of  every  passing  day,  in  the  laboratory  and  shop,  in  the 
factory  and  the  field,  and  in  the  family  circle,  in  the  classroom,  in  the 
sickroom,  in  the  halls  of  government  and  in  humble  homes,  in  all  our 
activities  and  in  all  extremities,  the  power  of  prayer  is  (or  can  be) 
a  guiding,  enlightening,  and  lifting  force;  a  source  of  wisdom  beyond 
the  wisdom  of  the  world;  a  source  of  the  truth  for  which  men  are 
ever  further  reaching;  a  sweet  and  healing  influence;  a  source  of  com- 
fort, of  protection,  and  of  the  peace  that  passeth  understanding. 
Prayer  is  an  approach  to  Him  who  gave  us  life  and  whose  endless 
power  and  purpose  give  us  settled  assurance  that  life  and  time  and 
truth  are  limitless  and  everlasting,  and  that  despite  all  discourage- 
ment, all  problems,  and  all  perplexities  we  are  not  left  alone  in  life. 

(Organ  interlude) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  91 


(Selection  by  the  choir:  "The  Lord's  Prayer" — Gates) 

Announcer:  We  have  heard  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sing  B.  Cecil 
Gates'  setting  for  "The  Lord's  Prayer":  "Our  Father  which  art  in 
heaven,  Hallowed  be  Thy  name" 

And  now  Frank  Asper  moves  into  a  hymn  melody  by  Thomas 
Mclntyre:  "How  Great  the  Wisdom  and  the  Love." 

(Organ:  "How  Great  the  Wisdom" — Mclntyre) 

Announcer:  The  Choir  closes  now  from  Temple  Square  with  a 
prayer  for  the  darkness  that  follows  the  day:  "Abide  with  me,  fast 
falls  the  eventide;  the  darkness  deepens;  Lord,  with  me  abide:  When 
other  helpers  fail,  and  comforts  flee,  help  of  the  helpless,  O  abide 
with  me!" 

(Choir:  "Abide  with  Me" — Monk) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you  within  the  shadows  of  the 
everlasting  hills.    May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and  always. 

This  concludes  the  eleven  hundred  and  twenty-ninth  presenta- 
tion, continuing  the  22nd  year  of  this  traditional  broadcast  from  the 
Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by  the  Co- 
lumbia network  and  its  affiliated  stations,  originating  with  Radio  Sta- 
tion KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducted  the  singing  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at  the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

SUNDAY  MORNING  SESSION  OF  CONFERENCE 

The  regular  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at 
10  o'clock,  with  President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 
The  Choral  singing  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting. 

President  David  O,  McKay 

This  is  the  fourth  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  are  convened  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall,  60  North  Main,  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by 
television. 

We  have  received  word  that  there  are  vacant  seats  in  Barratt 
Hall,  but  not  in  the  Assembly  Hall.  The  tabernacle  is  crowded  to 
capacity,  every  seat  taken,  with  the  aisles  on  the  sides  and  the  door- 
ways filled  with  those  standing. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the 
stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  Conference. 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's  session  of  the  Conference 
will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting,  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the 
congregation  singing:  "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Richard  P.  Condie.  The  congregation  will  remain  seated  while 
singing. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Edwin  S. 
Dibble  of  the  Glendale  Stake,  California. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  congregation,  "Come, 
Come  Ye  Saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Edwin  S.  Dibble 
of  the  Glendale  Stake,  California. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Great  The  Wis- 
dom and  the  Love." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  deeply  sense  my  inadequacy  in  trying 
to  express  in  words  the  message  I  have  in  my  heart  this  morning.  I 
earnestly  pray  therefore  for  your  sympathetic  mental  attitude  and 
particularly  for  your  spiritual  support. 

Testimony  of  Redeemer 

"For  I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand 
at  the  latter  day  upon  the  earth: 

"And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my 
flesh  shall  I  see  God: 

"Whom  I  shall  see  for  myself,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold,  and 
not  another;  though  my  reins  be  consumed  within  me."  (Job 
19:25-27.) 

Thus  was  spoken  the  heartfelt  assurance  of  Job,  expressed  in 
humiliation  when  everything  else  was  taken  from  him  and  even  his 
body  utterly  wasted  in  affliction. 

If  a  few  more  million  men  in  the  world  could  feel  that  testimony 
— the  testimony  of  the  reality  of  our  Redeemer — selfishness  would 
be  less  manifest,  war  among  nations  would  be  eradicated,  and  peace 
would  reign  among  mankind.  Do  you  believe  that,  my  fellow 
workers? 

"What  think  ye  of  Christ?"  was  the  question  Jesus  put  to  a 
group  of  Pharisees  when  they,  with  scribes  and  Sadducees,  sought  to 
entrap,  to  confound  the  Great  Teacher  by  asking  him  entangling 
questions.  He  silenced  the  Sadducees  in  their  attempt  to  ensnare 
him  with  regard  to  paying  tribute  to  Caesar.  He  satisfied  the  scribes 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


93 


regarding  the  first  and  great  commandment.  Now  he  put  to  silence 
the  Pharisees  regarding  their  anticipated  Christ. 

To  this  congregation,  to  the  Church,  and  to  the  world,  I  repeat 
this  question  as  being  the  most  vital,  the  most  farreaching  query  in 
this  unsettled,  distracted  world. 

Contributions  of  Great  Men 

Great  minds  in  all  ages  who  have  contributed  to  the  better- 
ment of  mankind  have  been  inspired  by  noble  ideals. 

History  is  replete  with  men  who,  as  Wordsworth  expresses  it, 
"By  the  vision  splendid,  were  on  their  way  attended."  There  is 
John  Milton,  for  example,  inspired  with  a  desire  as  a  boy  of  twelve 
to  write  a  poem  that  would  live  for  centuries.  As  a  result,  the  world 
has  Paradise  Lost,  and  later  in  life,  though  blind,  the  poet  as  he  ap- 
proached the  closing  moments  of  his  life,  exclaimed:  "Still  guides 
the  heavenly  vision."  Sir  Walter  Scott,  as  you  know,  wrote  almost 
day  and  night  to  pay  off  a  debt  for  which  he  was  not  really  respon- 
sible. 

George  Washington,  guided  by  the  desire  to  build  a  noble 
character  and  to  be  of  service  to  his  country,  cried:  "I  hope  I  may 
always  have  firmness  and  virtue  enough  to  maintain  what  I  con- 
sider to  be  the  most  enviable  of  all  titles — the  character  of  an  honest 
man."  Abraham  Lincoln's  lofty  soul,  expressing  himself  thus:  "with 
malice  toward  none,  with  charity  for  all,  with  firmness  in  the  right 
as  God  gives  us  to  see  the  right,  let  us  strive  on  to  finish  the  work 
we  are  in,  to  bind  up  the  nations  wounds,  to  care  for  him  who  shall 
have  borne  the  battle,  and  for  his  widow  and  his  orphan  to  do  all 
which  may  achieve  and  cherish  a  just  and  lasting  peace  among  our- 
selves and  with  all  nations."  (Second  Inaugural  Address.) 

These  and  others  who  live  to  their  best  are  the  men  "who 
realize  in  daily  life  their  luminous  hours  and  transmute  their  ideals 
into  conduct  and  character.  These  are,"  continues  the  writer,  "the 
soul  architects,  who  build  their  thoughts  and  deeds  into  a  plan;  who 
travel  forward,  not  aimlessly,  but  toward  a  destination;  who  sail 
not  any-whither  but  toward  a  port,  who  steer  not  by  the  clouds, 
but  by  fixed  stars.  High  in  the  scale  of  manhood  these  who  cease- 
lessly aspire  towards  life's  Great  Exemplar." 

Highest  of  All  Ideals 

But  let  me  explain  again,  the  highest  of  all  ideals  are  the  teach- 
ings and  particularly  the  life  of  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  that  man  is 
most  truly  great  who  is  most  Christlike. 

What  you  sincerely  in  your  heart  think  of  Christ  will  deter- 
mine what  you  are,  will  largely  determine  what  your  acts  will  be. 
No  person  can  study  this  divine  personality,  can  accept  his  teachings 
without  becoming  conscious  of  an  uplifting  and  refining  influence 
within  himself.  In  fact,  every  individual  may  experience  the  opera- 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Second  Day 

tion  of  the  most  potent  force  that  can  affect  humanity.  Electricity 
lightens  labor  in  the  home,  imprisons  alike  on  a  disc  the  warbling 
tones  of  the  mockingbird  and  the  convincing  appeal  of  the  orator. 
By  the  turn  of  a  switch,  it  turns  night  into  day.  The  possibilities 
of  the  force  resulting  from  the  breaking  up  of  the  atom  seem  to  be 
limitless  either  for  the  destruction  or  the  blessing  of  life.  Other  and 
greater  forces  are  already  glimpsed. 

The  Man  of  Galilee 

None,  however,  is  so  vital,  so  contributive  to  the  peace  and  happi- 
ness of  the  human  family  as  the  surrendering  of  our  selfish  animal- 
like  natures  to  the  life  and  teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ.  George  R.  Wendling  in  The  Man  of  Galilee  confirms  this 
thought  as  follows:  "Believe  it!  The  most  wonderful  work  in  all  the 
world  is  not  to  take  iron,  steel,  and  brass  and  make  a  locomotive; 
nor  is  it  to  take  gold  and  diamonds  and  cog-wheels  and  make  a 
watch;  nor  is  it  to  take  canvas  and  colors  and  brush  and  paint  an 
Angelus;  nor  yet  is  it  to  take  pen  and  parchment  and  write  an  Iliad 
or  Hamlet,  but  an  infinitely  greater  work  than  all  is  to  take  an 
ignoble,  cruel,  impure,  and  dishonest  being  and  transform  him  into 
an  upright,  gentle,  noble,  and  pure  man.  Here  we  touch  the  creative 
power  of  the  Galilean — and  bow  before  the  mystery. 

"Here  we  find  the  crowning  glory  of  all  the  evidences,  attested 
by  millions  of  intelligent  men  and  women,  the  fact,  mysterious  but 
not  illusory,  that  His  very  presence  is  found,  is  realized,  is  verified, 
and  that  He  is  as  helpful,  as  vital,  and  as  inspiring  now  as  when 
the  matchless  Beatitudes  fell  upon  the  ears  of  a  listening  multitude 
two  thousand  years  ago." 

Peter  and  Paul  Transformed 

Peter,  the  chief  Apostle,  is  a  striking  example  of  this  trans- 
forming power.  He  was  a  humble,  reputedly  a  rough,  uncultured 
fisherman  to  whom  Jesus  of  Nazareth  became  an  inspiration.  The 
vision  that  bade  him  say,  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  Living 
God,"  became  the  guiding  light  of  his  life.  Conditions  occasionally 
made  him  falter,  but  he  regained  the  lightened  pathway.  Bigots 
scoffed  at  him;  religious  zealots,  political  charlatans  arrested,  im- 
prisoned, and  shackled  him  as  a  dangerous  enemy  to  society,  but  the 
heavenly  vision  lightened  the  darkened  dungeon,  burst  open  prison 
doors,  struck  off  the  fetters  that  bound  his  wrists,  as  well  as  his 
wavering  soul,  and  gave  him  courage  and  strength  to  face  his  ac- 
cusers with  the  sublime  testimony:  He  "whom  ye  crucified,  Jesus 
Christ,  is  the  only  name  under  heaven  given  among  men,  whereby 
we  must  be  saved."  (See  Acts  4:10,  12.)  Only  a  comparatively  well- 
to-do  man,  making  a  fairly  good  living  by  fishing,  of  whom  the 
world  would  never  have  heard  had  he  not  been  inspired  by  a  testi- 
mony of  the  divine  mission  of  the  Man  of  Galilee — just  a  humble 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


95 


fisherman,  who,  by  the  light  of  that  inspiration  to  him  and  to  other 
members  of  the  Twelve,  and  disciples,  "many  of  the  world's  loveliest 
things  have  been  created,  many  of  the  world's  finest  minds  inspired." 

Another  good  example  is  Paul,  a  contemporary  of  Peter,  whose 
early  life  and  teachings  were  entirely  different  from  those  of  the 
fisherman,  but  who,  when  the  vision  of  the  Risen  Lord  pierced  his 
prejudiced  mind,  was  inspired  throughout  the  remainder  of  his  days 
by  one  guiding  thought  expressed  on  the  occasion  of  his  great  vision: 
"Lord,  what  wouldst  thou  have  me  do?" 

Paul,  as  Peter,  had  his  hours  of  discouragement.  Pride  some- 
times perturbed  him,  and  conformity  to  church  authority  was  oc- 
casionally difficult.  He,  too,  was  mobbed,  beaten,  and  imprisoned, 
put  in  stocks  in  a  dungeon,  but  the  heavenly  vision  of  the  Risen  Lord 
ever  guided  his  footsteps. 

Example  of  Joseph  Smith 

May  I  remind  you  also  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who 
declared:  "...  I  had  actually  seen  a  light,  and  in  the  midst  of  that 
light  I  saw  two  Personages,  and  they  did  in  reality  speak  to  me;  and 
though  I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying  that  I  had  seen  a 
vision,  yet  it  was  true;  and  while  they  were  persecuting  me,  reviling 
me,  and  speaking  all  manner  of  evil  against  me  falsely  for  so  saying, 
I  was  led  to  say  in  my  heart:  Why  persecute  me  for  telling  the  truth? 
I  have  actually  seen  a  vision;  and  who  am  I  that  I  can  withstand 
God,  or  why  does  the  world  think  to  make  me  deny  what  I  have 
actually  seen?  For  I  had  seen  a  vision;  I  knew  it,  and  I  knew  God 
knew  it,  and  I  could  not  deny  it,  neither  dared  I  do  it;  at  least  I 
knew  that  by  so  doing  I  would  offend  God,  and  come  under  con- 
demnation." (P.  of  G.  P.,  Writings  of  Joseph  Smith,  2:25.) 

Through  railings,  scoffings,  mobbings,  arrests,  imprisonments, 
persecutions  that  led  to  martyrdom,  Joseph  Smith  as  Peter  and  Paul 
before  him,  ever  strove  to  the  utmost  of  his  ability  to  follow  the 
light  that  had  made  him  a  "partaker  of  the  divine  nature." 

Influence  of  Savior's  Mission 

I  quote  these  three  outstanding  leaders  in  the  realm  of  religion 
to  show  how  the  assurance  of  the  divine  mission  of  our  Lord  and 
Savior  not  only  transformed  their  personal  lives  to  a  greater  or  less 
degree,  but  also  influenced  for  good  the  entire  world. 

Since  man's  first  advent  on  earth,  God  has  been  urging  him  to 
rise  above  the  selfish,  groveling  life  of  the  purely  animal  existence 
into  the  higher,  more  spiritual  realm.  After  several  thousand  years 
of  struggling,  mankind  even  now  but  dimly  recognizes  the  fact  that 
the  greatest  of  the  world's  leaders  are  those  who  most  nearly  ap- 
proach the  teachings  of  the  Man  of  Galilee.  This  is  psychologically 
sound,  because  the  thoughts  a  man  harbors  determine  the  realm  in 
which  he  serves.  "Be  not  deceived,"  writes  Paul  to  the  Galations, 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Dag 

"God  is  not  mocked:  for  whatsoever  a  man  soweth,  that  shall  he  also 
reap.  For  he  that  soweth  to  his  flesh  shall  of  the  flesh  reap  corrup- 
tion; but  he  that  soweth  to  the  Spirit  shall  of  the  Spirit  reap  life  ever- 
lasting." (Galatians  6:7-8.) 

Great  World  Drama 

At  the  moment  there  is  being  enacted  a  great  world  drama,  the 
final  act  of  which  we  can  only  dimly  surmise.  In  Korea,  one  of  the 
bloodiest  wars  of  modern  times  is  raging.  But  here  is  a  singular 
thing.  Engaged  in  it  are  soldiers  from  South  Korea,  United  States, 
Great  Britain,  France,  Turkey,  Greece,  Netherlands,  Australia,  Can- 
ada, New  Zealand,  Thailand,  the  Philippines,  South  Africa,  and  one 
or  two  other  nations — all  enlisted  under  the  United  Nations'  banner. 

Political  relationships  leading  up  to  their  fighting  as  an  inter- 
national army  need  not  concern  us  this  morning,  but  there  is  one  sig- 
nificant fact  most  worthy  of  attention:  Battling  for  the  same  cause 
are  Buddhists,  followers  of  Confucius,  Moslems,  and  Christians. 
Opposed  to  these  are  Communists,  openly  avowed  to  be  anti-Christ. 
Two  hundred  twenty-nine  thousand  casualties  are  already  reported 
in  this  conflict!  It  would  almost  seem  to  be  the  beginning  of  the  great 
battle  of  Armageddon. 

More  destructive  to  the  spreading  of  Christian  principles  in  the 
minds,  particularly  of  the  youth,  than  battleships,  submarines,  or 
even  bombs,  is  the  sowing  of  false  ideals  by  the  enemy.  Particularly, 
during  the  last  five  years,  Communist  Russia  has  gained  for  the  time 
being  conquests  over  the  satellites  under  her  domination,  including 
China,  and  is  now  threatening  Japan  by  sowing  seeds  of  mistrust  in 
the  body  politic. 

Misrepresentation,  false  propaganda,  innuendoes  soon  sprout 
into  poisonous  weeds,  and  before  long  the  people  find  themselves 
victims  of  a  pollution  that  has  robbed  them  of  their  individual  liberty 
and  enslaved  them  to  a  group  of  political  gangsters.  Let  us  draw  a 
lesson  from  this. 

Thoughts  Determine  Destiny 

So  it  is  with  evil  thoughts  that  may  be  permitted  insidiously  to 
enter  and  to  find  lodgment  in  the  human  mind.  Thoughts  harbored  de- 
termine destiny. 

"My  spirit,"  says  the  Christ,  "will  not  dwell  in  unclean  taber- 
nacles." The  corruption  that  is  in  the  world  through  lust,  as  men- 
tioned in  one  of  Peter's  epistles,  has  its  source  in  thoughts  and 
schemes  harbored  in  the  individual  mind.  A  man  who  takes  advant- 
age of  his  neighbor  in  a  business  deal  when  the  opportunity  offers 
has  prepared  himself  for  the  occasion  by  dishonest  thinking.  Young 
couples  do  not  lose  their  chastity,  named  by  the  Book  of  Mormon  as 
"precious  above  all  things"  without  their  having  previously  in 
thought  justified  the  act. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


97 


The  husband  who  coolly  turns  from  a  loyal  wife  and  family 
and  seeks  illicit  relationship  elsewhere,  perhaps  with  a  disloyal  wife 
of  a  neighbor,  has  previously  poisoned  his  soul  with  immoral  ideas. 
Disgruntled  members  of  society,  faultfinders  in  wards  and  stakes, 
do  not  become  such  merely  because  of  some  offense,  real  or  imag- 
ined. What  they  say  and  do  have  been  preceded  by  selfish  desires 
or  unattained  ambition. 

Corruption  from  Within 

I  mentioned  Communism  in  its  war  against  individual  liberty 
and  free  enterprise  as  surreptitiously  sowing  poisonous  seeds  with- 
in the  body  politic.  It  is  also  from  within,  morally  speaking,  that 
our  cities  become  corrupt;  not  from  outward,  open  assaults  on  virtue, 
but  from  insidious,  corrupt  actions  of  trusted  individuals.  Our 
government,  as  you  know,  has  recently  uncovered  a  gambling  ring 
that  covers  a  twenty  billion  dollar  business  in  vice.  Many  large 
cities  in  the  United  States  are  connected  with  it  and  contaminated 
by  it. 

Too  many  of  these  city  officials  license  darkened  rooms  wherein 
men  and  women,  and  not  infrequently  teenage  boys  and  girls,  may 
guzzle  beer  and  whiskey  and  indulge  in  other  vices  sought  by  per- 
sons of  low  ideals.  For  the  permission  and  perpetuation  of  such 
dens  of  iniquity  in  our  cities,  the  public  is  not  entirely  free  from 
blame.  However,  those  who  are  elected  to  office — commissioners, 
peace  officers,  trusted  servants  of  the  people — are  most  directly  re- 
sponsible. 

Generally  speaking,  these  men  are  honest  in  their  intentions 
and  actions  to  enforce  the  laws  and  if  possible  to  eradicate,  at  least 
to  reduce  to  a  minimum,  the  evils  upon  which  the  underworld 
thrives.  One  or  two,  or  a  half  a  dozen  unprincipled  men,  however, 
can  frustrate  the  most  earnest  efforts  of  the  upright  officials.  For 
example,  officers  informed  that  minors  are  permitted  to  enter  a  cer- 
tain "joint"  will  find  when  they  get  to  the  place  that  the  proprietor 
has  been  "tipped  off"  and  seemingly  everything  is  within  the  law. 

If  and  when  appreciation  for  such  "tips-off,"  and  other  favors, 
is  expressed  in  secretive  payments  of  money,  those  participating  in 
the  graft  may  meet  in  a  room,  a  club,  or  in  a  private  residence, 
ostensibly  to  play  a  social  game  of  poker,  and  under  this  guise 
divide  their  ill-gotten  gains.  Thus  do  our  cities,  as  individuals,  be- 
come corrupt  from  within. 

Such  exploitation  of  the  poor  unfortunates  whose  thoughts  and 
desires  lead  them  only  to  gratify  their  appetites,  indulge  their  pas- 
sions to  exist  by  deceit,  cunning,  and  crime,  are  among  the  cor- 
ruptions that  Peter  says  "are  in  the  world  through  lust." 

Let  us  always  remember  that,  "There  is  no  vice  so  great  but 
we  can  kill  "and  conquer  it  if  we  but  will." 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  S  Second  Day 

Christ  Our  Ideal 

Christ  came  to  redeem  the  world  from  sin.  He  came  with  love 
in  his  heart  for  every  individual,  with  redemption  and  possibility 
for  regeneration  for  all.  By  choosing  him  as  our  ideal,  we  create 
within  ourselves  a  desire  to  be  like  him,  to  have  fellowship  with 
him.   We  perceive  life  as  it  should  be  and  as  it  may  be. 

The  chief  apostle  Peter,  the  indefatigable  Paul,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  other  true  followers  of  the  Risen  Lord  recognized 
in  him  the  Savior  of  the  individual,  for  did  he  not  say,  "This  is  my 
work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal 
life  of  man?"- — not  the  sacrificing  of  the  individual  for  the  perpetua- 
tion of  the  socialistic  or  communistic  state. 

Members  of  the  Church  of  Christ  are  under  obligation  to  make 
the  sinless  Son  of  Man  their  ideal — the  one  perfect  being  who  ever 
walked  the  earth. 

Sublimest  Example  of  Nobility 
God-like  in  nature 
Perfect  in  his  love 
Our  Redeemer 
Our  Savior 

The  immaculate  Son  of  our  Eternal  Father 
The  Light,  the  Life,  the  Way 

I  know  he  lives  and  his  power  is  potent;  that  he  is  the  Son  of 
God,  and  that  he  has  restored  in  this  dispensation  the  complete  plan 
of  salvation.  God  bless  us  all  that  we  may  hold  him  as  our  ideal 
and  pray  for  power  to  be  like  him,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A,  WIDTSOE 

0[  the  Council  o/  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  always  glad  to  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  faith  within  me.  Yet  I  confess  that  standing  before 
such  an  audience,  I  feel  a  sobering  effect.  Brigham  Young  felt  it 
in  his  day.  He  declared  that  since  we  are  all  children  of  God,  there 
is  within  each  one  of  us  a  part  of  God's  very  nature,  and  that  to 
stand  before  a  great  group  of  Latter-day  Saints,  the  accumulation, 
so  to  speak,  of  their  godliness,  lifts  a  man  to  a  feeling  that  he  stands 
before  the  great  dignity  of  the  Maker  of  us  all. 

I  have  listened  with  great  interest  to  the  messages  of  this  con- 
ference. We  have  had  a  good  time  together.  I  know  we  have  all 
been  touched  by  the  eloquent  words  just  spoken  by  President  Mc- 
Kay. He  has  touched  the  very  center  of  our  spiritual  being,  of  our 
membership  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


99 


Kindness  of  George  Albert  Smith 

During  the  events  of  the  last  few  days,  many  memories  have 
crowded  in  upon  my  mind.  In  a  late  afternoon  of  a  warm,  sultry 
day  in  August  or  September,  I  sat  in  my  office  rather  tired  after  the 
day's  work.  The  University  of  Utah  had  had  internal  dissensions 
which  had  been  fanned  by  enemies  into  a  nationwide  scandal.  I 
had  been  called  in  to  assist  others  who  were  trying  to  return  the 
institution  and  its  work  to  a  normal  condition.  It  was  the  third  time 
in  my  life  that  I  had  been  obliged  to  serve  my  state  in  such  a  capacity. 
I  was  weary.  Just  then  there  was  a  knock  upon  the  door,  and  in 
walked  George  Albert  Smith.  He  said,  "I  am  on  the  way  home  after 
my  day's  work.  I  thought  of  you  and  the  problems  that  you  are  ex- 
pected to  solve.    I  came  in  to  comfort  you  and  to  bless  you." 

That  was  the  way  of  George  Albert  Smith.  Of  the  many 
friends  I  have  throughout  the  state  and  beyond,  he  was  the  only 
one,  except  a  few  of  my  intimate  friends,  who  took  time  to  give  me 
the  loving  help  in  the  work  I  had  to  do.  Of  course  I  appreciated 
that;  I  shall  never  forget  it.  We  talked  together  for  awhile;  we 
parted,  he  went  home.   My  heart  was  lifted.   I  was  weary  no  longer. 

You  see,  love,  of  which  we  have  spoken  so  much  during  this 
conference,  is  not  a  mere  word  or  a  sensation  within.  To  be  a 
worthy  love,  it  must  be  brought  into  action.  President  Smith  on  that 
occasion  did  that.  He  gave  of  his  own  time,  his  own  strength,  to 
me.  I  hope  that  those  of  us  who  have  attended  this  conference 
these  last  few  days  will  understand  that  the  test  of  love  is  whether 
the  person  who  loves  gives  of  himself,  of  his  powers,  to  the  loved 
one.  There  is  no  true  love  unless  that  is  done.  The  husband  must 
give  of  his  own  self,  in  a  large  sense,  to  the  wife  he  loves;  and  she 
must  give  of  herself,  surrender  perhaps,  for  him,  the  things  that  she 
would  like  to  keep  and  have.  Parents  and  children  must  have  the 
same  relationship.  There  is  no  true  love  without  sacrifice  for  the 
loved  one.  Since  we  have  spoken  so  much  about  love,  perhaps  we 
might  keep  that  in  memory. 

Theme  of  Address 

Shortly  before  the  death  of  President  Smith,  I  heard  one  of  his 
addresses,  perhaps  it  was  his  last,  I  am  not  quite  sure.  He  chose  as 
his  theme,  the  unhappy  condition  of  the  world  at  the  present  time. 
He  laid  down  a  principle  which  I  believe  to  be  correct  and  inspired, 
that  there  will  be  no  peace,  no  final  solution  to  the  world's  problems, 
until  this  body  of  people,  comprising  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  cleanse  themselves,  accept  the  doctrines  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  spoken  of  so  beautifully  this  morning,  and  set  to  work 
to  battle  for  righteousness  and  for  truth;  only  then  can  we  hope  for 
peace.  He  admitted  that  of  course  it  was  a  tremendous  claim,  but 
the  claim  is  eternal.  Truth  is  always  the  winner;  truth  is  never  de- 
feated.   In  the  words  of  the  old  poet:  "Truth  crushed  to  earth  will 


100  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  S  Second  Day 

rise  again."  He  left  on  that  occasion  the  message  to  me  and  to 
others  that  we  must  cleanse  our  hearts,  as  said  here  today  by  Presi- 
dent McKay.  We  must  gather  up  our  courage,  and  we  must  set 
forth  to  battle  for  righteousness  in  the  world.  Then,  just  as  a  leaven 
leavens  the  lump,  so  we  shall  leaven  the  whole  world.  A  tremendous 
mission,  isn't  it?  Tremendous  to  think  about — that  this  handful  of 
people  have  within  themselves  the  power,  if  properly  used,  to  change 
the  whole  world  for  good  or  for  evil. 

Examination  of  Testimonies 

I  have  felt  on  many  occasions,  especially  after  that  sermon,  that 
what  we  need  to  do,  each  one  of  us,  is  to  begin  to  examine  our  own 
testimonies  of  the  truth.  After  all,  with  our  testimonies  as  our  chief 
weapon,  we  go  out  to  battle  evil.  We  speak  of  a  testimony,  yes; 
we  say  we  have  a  testimony — but  is  the  testimony  of  a  kind  that 
will  enable  a  man  to  accept  and  obey  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  under  any  and  all  conditions?  It  might  be  good  for  us  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  begin  to  re-examine  our  own  testimonies.  A  man  who 
goes  into  battle  cleanses  his  sword,  looks  after  his  gun,  and  he  is 
ready  for  the  battle  when  it  comes.  We  are  in  the  midst  of  a  great 
battle  today,  the  battle  of  the  ages,  foretold  by  prophets  through- 
out the  long  ages  of  the  past.  We  must  begin  with  a  certain  under- 
standing of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  a  willing,  ready 
acceptance  of  it,  as  indicated  by  President  McKay.  There  is  no 
other  way.  But  have  we  done  that?  Have  we  looked  into  our  own 
hearts,  to  our  testimonies,  and  added  that  which  is  wanting,  taken 
out  that  which  is  unworthy?   We  should  be  fit  for  the  battle. 

In  the  words  of  President  Smith,  we,  like  the  leaven,  shall 
leaven  all  people.  His  life  of  love  was  merely  an  illustration  of  that 
larger  view  of  the  concern  of  all  who  follow  the  Christ. 

A  Unique  People 
I  think  that  we  Latter-day  Saints  can  afford  to  be  a  unique 
people.  Once  in  awhile  I  meet  a  young  person,  sometimes  an  older 
person  who  says,  "Well,  that  may  all  be  true,  but  I  don't  want  to 
be  different  from  other  people.  I  want  to  be  like  other  people. 
Why  can't  we  be  like  the  others?  It's  so  much  easier  then  to  go 
through  life." 

But  we  can't  help  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  are  different. 
We  are  different — in  righteousness,  in  virtue,  in  the  teachings  of 
the  eternal  gospel — we  are  different.  We  can't  escape  it.  If  our 
testimonies  are  sound  and  true,  we  know  that  we  cannot  be  like 
other  people  unless  they,  too,  accept  the  truth  as  we  possess  it. 

I  don't  know  of  a  figure  in  the  last  two  thousand  years  who  was 
more  different  from  the  mass  of  humanity,  the  millions  of  men  and 
women,  than  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  He  stands  alone,  unique — 
the  only  such  religious  leader  in  two  thousand  years,  since  the  days 
of  the  Christ.    He  received  his  commission  from  God  himself;  he 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


101 


was  instructed  by  God  himself;  he  spoke  at  one  time  with  God  him- 
self. No  other  man  in  the  midst  of  the  great  apostasy  from  simple 
truth  has  ever  been  able  to  make  that  claim.  And  we  know  it  to 
be  true.  Of  course  we  are  a  different  people.  Since  I  musn't  take 
too  much  time  today — many  of  us  are  yet  to  speak — let  me  say 
to  you  that  we  have  the  right,  in  searching  our  testimonies,  in  get- 
ting them  ready  for  this  great  battle,  to  remember  that  a  testimony 
is  a  living  thing,  not  a  static,  dead  thing — it  is  alive  and  sometimes 
fills  a  man  and  a  woman  until  the  visions  of  heaven  are  opened  to 
him  or  to  her.  By  that  token  of  life,  a  testimony  must  be  fed,  cared 
for  and  nurtured,  kept  in  its  right  place  and  position,  protected  if 
needs  be.  In  doing  that,  we  have  the  right  and  the  need  to  take  all 
evidences  that  lie  about  us,  all  evidences  of  the  truth  of  this  great 
latter-day  work.  The  Lord  himself  told  us  so  to  do.  We  may  read 
in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  section  twenty,  when  the  founda- 
tions of  this  Church  were  laid,  when  our  Church  constitution,  so  to 
speak,  was  written  (you  will  find  that  evidences  are  there  men- 
tioned), that  by  the  evidences  that  lie  all  about  us  we  shall  be 
judged.  Joseph  Smith  set  up  evidence  after  evidence  of  the  reality 
and  truth  of  all  that  he  said  and  did. 

Witnesses  to  Prophet's  Work 

I  am  thinking  of  one  great  argument  in  favor  of  Joseph,  debated 
and  talked  about  for  over  a  hundred  years:  He  had  witnesses,  hu- 
man flesh  and  blood  witnesses,  such  as  we  are,  of  his  work.  He  was 
alone  in  the  grove  when  the  first  vision  came;  he  was  alone  when 
Moroni  called;  the  Church  had  not  then  been  organized,  hardly 
begun.  But  from  that  time  on,  almost  everything  he  did  of  a  spiritual 
nature,  his  communions  and  communications  with  the  Almighty  and 
divine  beings,  were  shared  by  him  with  others.  It  is  really  a  won- 
derful thing.  The  great  spiritual  leaders  of  the  last  two  thousand 
years  have  gone  into  the  woods,  fasted  and  prayed,  and  come  back 
with  these  messages,  alone.  They  have  gone  into  caves — Moham- 
med, for  example — always  alone.  But  this  great  latter-day  prophet, 
after  the  beginning  of  the  work,  had  companions  who  shared  with 
him  his  great  experiences.  Twelve  honorable  men  of  unquestioned 
probity  saw  the  plates  of  the  Book  of  Mormon;  when  the  priesthood 
was  restored  by  John  the  Baptist,  Oliver  Cowdery,  an  honest  man 
whose  integrity  has  never  been  questioned,  received  the  priesthood 
with  Joseph.  When  Peter,  James,  and  John  came  to  give  the  higher 
priesthood,  Oliver  Cowdery  was  there.  When  the  great  messages 
in  the  Kirtland  Temple  came,  which  we  frequently  overlook  in  their 
greatness,  Oliver  Cowdery  was  by  his  side.  When  the  message 
that  men  shall  be  judged  by  their  works — a  tremendous  doctrine  in 
that  day  of  apostasy — was  given,  Sidney  Rigdon  was  with  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  And  other  men,  ancestors  of  some  of  you 
men  who  are  here  today,  were  in  the  room  with  the  Prophet  time 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

and  time  again  when  the  revelations  of  God  came  to  him.  Some  of 
them  have  described  in  writing  how  it  occurred. 

We  don't  stand  alone.  We  have  witnesses  to  our  faith.  We 
are  a  unique  people.  All  about  us  are  witnesses  to  the  truth  of  this 
great  latter-day  work.  It  might  be  well  in  building  our  testimonies, 
to  begin  with  the  simple  foundation — events.  Ultimately  we  will 
then  win  that  greater  testimony,  the  testimony  of  the  spirit  which 
is  the  testimony,  but  which  we  must  achieve  little  by  little,  in  a 
natural  manner  that  the  Lord  has  prescribed: 

A  World  Message 

So  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  look  into  our  testimonies.  Are 
they  just  words  on  our  tongues,  or  do  they  really  represent  our  con- 
victions? If  they  need  mending,  mend  them;  if  they  need  building, 
build  them.  Remember  that  our  message  is  a  world  message — I  have 
said  before  from  this  stand  that  we  are  not  confined  to  these  val- 
leys and  mountains — our  message  is  for  the  whole  world.  For  every 
nation,  every  tongue,  and  every  kindred,  we  have  responsibility. 

God  bless  us  and  be  with  us,  not  only  in  our  search  for  truth, 
but  also  in  our  use  of  truth,  for  the  accomplishment  and  the  com- 
pletion of  the  great  purposes  of  the  Lord  in  these  days,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What 
Is  Truth?" 

ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  thinking,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  since  the  meeting 
of  the  Twelve  in  the  temple  on  Thursday,  of  the  words  of  the  Master 
when  he  was  about  to  take  his  departure  from  the  Twelve,  and  he 
said  unto  them: 

Go  ye  therefore,  and  teach  all  nations,  baptizing  them  in  the  name  of 
the  Father,  and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things  whatsoever  I  have  commanded 
you:  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the  world. 
(Matt.  28:19-20.) 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

As  this  Council  of  Twelve  met  in  the  upper  room  of  the  temple 
on  Thursday,  the  Spirit  of  God  bore  witness  to  my  spirit  that  Christ 
was  saying  there  to  the  Twelve:  "...  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  always, 
even  unto  the  end  of  the  world."  And  where  there  is  no  Quorum  of 
Twelve  in  God's  ministry  upon  the  earth,  Christ  is  not  there  as  the 
leader  of  his  Church  and  his  kingdom.  This  testimony  has  sunk 
deep  into  my  heart  since  that  meeting  and  during  this  conference, 
which  has  been  presided  over  by  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  with 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  103 


President  McKay  as  its  presiding  officer.  When  Christ  came  to 
the  earth  he  organized  his  Church,  and  at  the  head,  under  his  leader- 
ship, he  had  Twelve  Apostles.  And  when  he  left,  he  left  his  Church 
under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve.  When  he  came  to  the  American 
continent  he  organized  his  Church,  and  at  the  head  of  that  Church,, 
under  his  leadership,  he  placed  Twelve  Disciples.  And  when  he 
left  them,  he  left  his  Church  and  his  Saints  under  the  leadership  of 
that  Twelve.  And  when  the  gospel  was  restored  again,  Christ  came 
back  and  appeared  unto  him  who  was  raised  up  to  be  the  Prophet 
at  the  head  of  this  dispensation.  And  under  his  direction  the 
Church  was  organized  for  the  last  time,  and  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  under  the  Presidency  of  the  Prophet  were  the  appointed 
Twelve.  And  when  the  Prophet  was  taken  from  the  earth,  sealing 
his  testimony  with  his  blood,  the  Church  was  left  under  the  direc- 
tion of  the  Twelve.  And  down  through  the  years  when  the  leader- 
ship of  the  Quorum  of  the  Presidency  has  been  taken  away,  the 
keys  have  remained  with  the  Twelve. 

".  .  .  and,  lo,  I  am  with  you  alway,  even  unto  the  end  of  the 
world." 

As  God  has  borne  witness  to  me  in  that  meeting  in  his  holy 
house  and  in  this  conference,  so  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  where 
there  is  no  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  the  true  organization  of  Christ's 
Church  is  not  here  upon  the  earth,  and  that  is  my  testimony  to  you, 
which  I  bear  in  all  humbleness  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  these  are  momentous  days.  The  ex- 
periences of  this  week  we  will  not  soon  forget.  I  am  impressed,  too, 
as  Brother  Cowley  expressed,  with  the  importance  of  the  body  to 
which  I  belong.  This  is  the  first  general  conference  I  have  ever  at- 
tended which  was  conducted  by  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Statement  of  Paul 

I  am  reminded  of  the  statement  by  Paul  to  the  Ephesians  when 
he  said: 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles;  and  some,  prophets;  and  some,  evan- 
gelists and  some,  pastors  and  teachers. 

And  then  he  outlines  carefully  for  what  purpose  they  were  called: 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the 
edifying  of  the  body  (the  Church)  of  Christ. 

And  then  he  goes  further  and  makes  a  statement  that  I  think  is 
very  important  indeed  to  every  Latter-day  Saint: 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

That  we  henceforth  be  no  more  children,  tossed  to  and  fro,  and 
carried  about  with  every  wind  of  doctrine,  by  the  sleight  of  men,  and 
cunning  craftiness  whereby  they  lie  in  wait  to  deceive.  (Ephesians  4:11- 
12,  14.) 

Chosen  Leaders 

In  many  other  places  Paul  also  warned  us  against  the  deceivers 
who  would  come  even  before  his  departing.  And  they  have  con- 
tinued to  come,  and  they  are  among  us  today.  The  authorities 
which  the  Lord  has  placed  in  his  Church  constitute  for  the  people 
of  the  Church  a  harbor,  a  place  of  refuge,  a  hitching  post,  as  it  were. 
No  one  in  this  Church  will  ever  go  far  astray  who  ties  himself  se- 
curely to  the  Church  Authorities  whom  the  Lord  has  placed  in  his 
Church.  This  Church  will  never  go  astray;  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  will  never  lead  you  into  bypaths;  it  never  has  and  never  will. 
There  could  be  individuals  who  would  falter;  there  will  never  be  a 
majority  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  on  the  wrong  side  at  any  time. 
The  Lord  has  chosen  them;  he  has  given  them  specific  responsibili- 
ties. And  those  people  who  stand  close  to  them  will  be  safe.  And, 
conversely,  whenever  one  begins  to  go  his  own  way  in  opposition 
to  authority,  he  is  in  grave  danger.  I  would  not  say  that  those 
leaders  whom  the  Lord  chooses  are  necessarily  the  most  brilliant,  nor 
the  most  highly  trained,  but  they  are  the  chosen,  and  when  chosen 
of  the  Lord  they  are  his  recognized  authority,  and  the  people  who 
stay  close  to  them  have  safety. 

I  am  reminded  of  when  Moses  was  called  to  his  tremendous  re- 
sponsibility of  leading  the  children  of  Israel  out  of  bondage,  and  he 
complained  to  the  Lord  and  said,  "I  am  weak,  I  am  slow  of  speech," 
and  the  Lord  gave  to  him  a  voice  in  his  brother  Aaron.  But  the 
Lord  didn't  replace  him  by  that  voice. 

Need  of  Being  Valiant 

The  Lord  is  at  the  helm,  brothers  and  sisters,  and  he  will  con- 
tinue to  be  there,  and  his  work  will  go  forward.  The  important 
question  is  whether  we,  as  individuals,  will  be  going  in  that  same 
direction.  It's  up  to  us.  This  is  a  gospel  of  individual  work.  I  wish 
our  Latter-day  Saints  could  become  more  valiant.  As  I  read  the 
seventy-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  great  vis- 
ion given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  I  remember  that  the  Lord 
says  to  that  terrestrial  degree  of  glory  may  go  those  who  are  not 
valiant  in  the  testimony,  which  means  that  many  of  us  who  have 
received  baptism  by  proper  authority,  many  who  have  received 
other  ordinances,  even  temple  blessings,  will  not  reach  the  celestial 
kingdom  of  glory  unless  we  live  the  commandments  and  are  valiant. 

What  is  being  valiant?  I  believe  that  John,  in  the  book  of  Rev- 
elation, says  something  about  valiancy.  He  is  speaking  to  the 
people  at  Sardis,  one  of  the  cities  which  Paul  had  proselyted.  He 
is  speaking  to  the  Saints,  mind  you,  not  to  the  people  in  the  world. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  105 

He  says:  "I  know  thy  works,  that  thou  hast  a  name  that  thou  livest, 
and  art  dead."  (Rev.  3:1.) 

Spiritually  Dead 

There  are  many  people  in  this  Church  today  who  think  they 
live,  but  they  are  dead  to  the  spiritual  things.  And  I  believe  even 
many  who  are  making  pretenses  of  being  active  are  also  spiritually 
dead.  Their  service  is  much  of  the  letter  and  less  of  the  spirit. 
Again  I  notice  he  speaks  to  another  group,  the  Laodiceans,  and 
says: 

I  know  thy  works,  that  thou  art  neither  cold  nor  hot:  I  would  thou 
wert  cold  or  hot. 

So  then  because  thou  art  lukewarm,  and  neither  cold  nor  hot,  I  will 
spue  thee  out  of  my  mouth.  (Ibid.,  3:15-16.) 

Those  were  Saints  who  had  been  baptized  into  the  kingdom, 
received  the  Holy  Ghost,  we  would  assume,  and  were  supposed  to 
be  on  their  way  to  exaltation.  But  they  weren't  faithful,  they  weren't 
valiant.   The  Lord  says  again  in  these  verses  through  John: 

Him  that  overcometh  will  I  make  a  pillar  in  the  temple  of  my  God, 
and  he  shall  go  no  more  out:  and  I  will  write  upon  him  the  name  of  my 
God,  and  the  name  of  the  city  of  my  God,  which  is  new  Jerusalem,  which 
cometh  down  out  of  heaven  from  my  God:  and  I  will  write  upon  him  my 
new  name.  {Ibid.  3:12.) 

He  says  again  of  these  Sardis  members  of  the  Church: 

Thou  hast  a  few  names  even  in  Sardis  which  have  not  defiled  their 
garments;  and  they  shall  walk  with  me  in  white:  for  they  are  worthy. 

He  that  overcometh,  the  same  shall  be  clothed  in  white  raiment;  and 
I  will  not  blot  out  his  name  out  of  the  book  of  life,  but  I  will  confess  his 
name  before  my  Father,  and  before  his  angels.  (Ibid.,  3:4-5.) 

I  remember  a  great  people  of  long  ago  who  belonged  to  the 
Church  of  our  Lord,  who  became  so  righteous  as  a  group  that  they 
were  translated  into  heaven.  And  I  wonder  why  other  groups  have 
not  been  taken.  The  only  conclusion  that  I  can  reach  is  that  whole 
groups  have  not  been  sufficiently  righteous.  We  buried  a  righteous 
man  yesterday.  If  all  of  the  people  in  this  Church  were  as  righteous 
as  he  was,  perhaps  there  might  be  further  translations.  But  we  are 
not  living  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  as  well  as  we  know. 
Many  of  us  are  not  valiant. 

Greater  Church  Activity 

I  pray  the  Lord  will  bless  us  all,  that  we  may  catch  a  vision  of 
greater  activity  in  this  Church,  all  of  us.  That  none  of  us  may  stand 
by  and  feel  self-righteous  as  did  the  hypocrite  who  with  the  publi- 
can went  to  the  temple  to  pray: 

The  Pharisee  stood  and  prayed  thus  with  himself,  God,  I  thank  thee, 
that  I  am  not  as  other  men  are,  extortioners,  unjust,  adulterers,  or  even  as 
this  publican. 

I  fast  twice  in  the  week,  I  give  tithes  of  all  that  I  possess.  (Luke 
18:11-12.) 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Second  Day 

Then  Jesus  goes  on  to  say: 

And  the  publican,  standing  afar  off,  would  not  lift  up  so  much  as  his 
eyes  unto  heaven,  but  smote  upon  his  breast  saying,  God  be  merciful  to 
me  a  sinner. 

I  tell  you,  this  man  went  down  to  his  house  justified  rather  than  the 
other:  for  every  one  that  exalteth  himself  shall  be  abased;  and  he  that 
humbleth  himself  shall  be  exalted.  (Ibid.,  18:1344.) 

We  are  all  sinners.  We  all  need  to  repent.  We  all  need  to  change 
our  lives  and  to  make  them  more  righteous,  and  become  valiant  as 
the  children  of  Enoch  were  valiant,  so  that  we  may  receive  the 
blessings  which  are  promised  to  us  and  which  we  are  striving  for. 
Many  of  us  have  not  yet  surrendered,  or  if  it  has  been  a  surrender  it 
has  been  a  conditional  surrender,  with  many  reservations. 

God  help  us,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  may  unconditionally 
surrender  to  the  Lord  and  his  program  and  to  the  spirit  of  the  work, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JEAN  WUNDERLICH 

Formerly  President  of  the  West  German  Mission 

First  of  all,  brothers  and  sisters,  I  wish  to  express  my  thanks  to 
our  Father  in  Heaven  that  my  family  and  I  had  the  opportunity  to  go 
to  Germany  and  fill  a  mission  there  in  that  much-tried  land.  I  have 
been  back  four  months  now.  I  have  resumed  my  profession  and  have 
had  an  opportunity  to  look  around  among  those  that  have  stayed 
home,  and  I  would  say  that  nothing  in  an  earthly  way  could  repay 
the  blessings  that  my  family  and  I  have  enjoyed  while  we  were  away. 
Many  people  talk  of  sacrifices  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  but  I  am  con- 
vinced that  it  is  not  possible  to  sacrifice  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that 
no  matter  what  we  do,  when  the  ledger  is  balanced  our  side  of  it  is 
always  in  the  red. 

If  I  can  express  one  sentiment  that  all  the  Saints  in  Germany 
would  want  me  to  convey  to  the  body  of  the  Church,  it  would  be  a 
sentiment  of  thanks  for  the  Welfare  help  that  they  have  received. 
It  is  difficult  to  describe  the  condition  under  which  these  people  had 
to  live.  For  many  of  them,  the  food  which  came  when  it  did,  meant 
the  difference  literally  between  life  and  death,  and  for  many  of  them, 
most  of  them,  the  clothing  when  it  came,  meant  the  difference  be- 
tween freezing  and  being  cold,  and  being  warm  and  comfortable. 
I  do  not  want  to  describe  conditions  in  detail,  but  perhaps  one  little 
incident  will  illustrate.  I  asked  a  good  brother  in  private,  confiden- 
tially, about  a  year  before  I  left,  "How  much  of  the  clothing  that  you 
now  wear  on  your  body  did  you  have  before  the  Welfare  help 
came."  He  hesitated  and  said,  "Just  one  pair  of  spats,  all  the  rest  of 
it  is  from  the  Welfare."  This  is  not  an  isolated  case,  but  hundreds, 
yes,  I  would  say,  thousands  are  in  the  same  position. 

I  would  also  like  to  say  something  about  our  missionaries.  It 
took  a  long  time  before  the  door  was  opened  again  for  our  American 


ELDER  JEAN  WUNDERLICH  107 


young  men  to  come  over  there  and  preach  the  Gospel.  But  before 
they  came  there  were  a  few  valiant  men  and  women  of  the  Germans 
themselves  who  left  their  families  and  their  homes  and  filled  full- 
time  missions  for  the  Church.  That  same  man  who  mentioned  the  pair 
of  spats  as  belonging  to  him  before  the  Welfare  help  came,  went  into 
the  mission  field  and  left  at  home  a  wife  and  seven  children,  only 
one  of  whom  was  old  enough  to  earn  her  own  keep. 

Those  are  the  few  to  whom  we  owe  so  much  in  Germany,  but  we 
owe  a  great  deal  also  to  you  fathers  and  mothers  who  sent  your  sons 
over  there. 

Naturally,  you- are  anxious  to  know  how  they  are  getting  along. 
May  I  assure  you  that  there  is  no  cause  for  alarm,  as  to  their  physical 
well  being.  At  the  present  moment  there  is  nothing  in  Germany  that 
cannot  be  obtained  if  one  has  the  price  for  it,  and  it  can  be  obtained 
legitimately.  Many  of  the  German  Saints  are  not  fortunate  enough 
to  be  able  to  afford  all  the  beautiful  things  that  are  obtainable  there, 
again,  but  as  I  say,  none  of  our  missionaries  need  to  suffer.  And  I 
will  add  that  as  long  as  any  German  Saint  has  a  crust  of  bread  it 
will  be  shared  with  the  missionaries.  Ever  since  the  days  of  Tacitus, 
the  Germans  have  been  renowned  for  their  hospitality,  and  this  is 
still  one  of  the  virtues  which  they  have  left. 

I  remember  an  occasion  when  things  were  still  scarce,  and  when 
housewives  were  sorely  tried.  We  came  to  a  Conference.  A  lady 
invited  us  to  dinner.  We  had  potato  soup  and  dry  bread.  In  this 
potato  soup  was  the  only  shortening  or  fat  which  this  particular 
family  had  obtained  for  several  weeks.  That  shortening  or  fat,  50 
grams,  all,  was  really  meant  for  their  child,  but  they  shared  it  with 
us.  I  hasten  to  add,  that  the  child  did  not  suffer. 

You  may  wonder  what  the  prospects  of  missionary  work  are  in 
Germany.  They  are  excellent.  Of  course  the  German  people  have 
become  highly  critical.  They  do  not  fall,  I  believe,  as  easily  as  they 
once  did,  for  propaganda.  I  hope  they  have  been  cured.  I  think  that 
in  some  ways  they  have  become  more  discriminatory.  Before  the 
21st  of  June,  1948,  we  had  no  difficulty  in  bringing  people  into  our 
Church,  because  they  came  of  their  own  accord.  But  since  that  time 
the  currency  reform  was  enacted  which  changed  economic  conditions, 
and  by  reason  of  that  fact  we  are  in  competition  again  with  the  entice- 
ments of  the  world,  with  the  movies,  with  restaurants,  with  travel 
and  with  sports.  We  have  to  go  to  the  people,  and  as  we  do,  hun- 
dreds of  them  become  interested.  There  are  50  cities  in  Western 
Germany  alone,  each  with  over  25,000  people,  where  the  Gospel 
has  never  been  preached,  so  that  the  field  is  ripe  there.  I  hope  the 
Lord  will  grant  us  a  long  time  in  order  to  preach  His  word,  so  that 
we  may  reach  the  honest  in  heart. 

I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  again.  I  see  the  time  is  up.  It  is 
not  possible  to  give  an  adequate  report  in  a  short  time.  I  thank  iny 
Father  in  Heaven  again  for  his  kindness  to  me  and  my  family,  and 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  S  Second  Day 

for  the  kindness  which  he  has  inspired  others  to  extend  unto  us,  both 
here  and  in  Germany.  May  the  Lord  bless  you,  may  the  Lord  bless 
the  dear  Saints  in  Germany,  that  they  may  have  the  things  which 
they  so  much  desire,  and  which  they  so  much  deserve,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  has  been  a  most  impressive  con- 
ference. I  think  in  my  experience  I  have  never 'attended  one  more 
impressive,  and  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  attend  conferences  since 
the  passing  of  President  Woodruff  when  vacancies  have  been  filled 
in  the  presidency  of  the  Church.  I  remember  President  Woodruff 
well.  He  knew  me  by  my  first  name,  largely  because  my  father  at- 
tended him  professionally,  and  it  was  my  privilege  to  drive  my  fa- 
ther from  place  to  place  as  a  boy.  So,  I  say,  in  my  recollection  I 
never  remember  a  more  impressive  conference. 

Gospel  Brings  Peace 

It's  a  great  pleasure  and  a  privilege  and  a  blessing  to  be  here 
and  to  feel  the  warmth  of  the  hearts  of  the  people.  Although  there 
has  been  a  shadow  of  sorrow  in  all  of  our  hearts,  yet  there  has  been 
that  peace  that  comes  to  the  human  soul  through  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  We  are  all  striving  for  peace,  and  we  wonder  how 
it's  going  to  come.  I  sometimes  think  we  look  upon  it  as  sort  of  a 
tangible  thing  and  perhaps  there  are  some  tangible  aspects  to  it,  but 
in  a  larger  sense,  it  is  most  intangible.  I  think  we  were  conscious 
of  that  yesterday  as  we  assembled  in  this  room  paying  our  respects 
and  showing  our  love  to  our  great  leader.  As  we  sat  here,  I  couldn't 
help  but  think,  here  we  are  evidencing  peace  in  the  world.  Our 
hearts  are  free  from  strife;  that's  what  peace  means.  We  have  noth- 
ing but  love  and  kindness  one  toward  another,  and  regardless  of 
creed,  regardless  of  color,  and  there  were  many  here  yesterday, 
who  are  not  of  the  white  race,  we  were  all  dedicated  to  one  purpose 
and  that  was  peace  and  love.  It's  true,  that  was  inspired  by  our 
leader,  but  leaders  can  do  that,  and  they  will  do  it,  and  peace  will 
come  through  the  inspiration  of  men  whom  God  will  raise  up  and 
who  will  establish  in  the  hearts  of  men,  because  of  their  righteous 
lives,  these  great  concepts  of  peace. 

Peace  Through  Suffering 

And  then,  too,  we  had  another  most  striking  experience  as  we 
sat  here.  We  listened  to  that  lovely  blind  woman,  Sister  Jones,  pay 
her  tribute,  one  from  whom  the  beauties  of  this  world  have  been  shut 
out — I  mean  the  tangible  beauties.  I  couldn't  help  thinking  of  it  as 
I  saw  those  beautiful  flowers.    She  couldn't  see  them;  she  can't  see 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


109 


the  shadows  of  a  fleeting  day  or  the  rising  sun,  or  these  delicate  lilies. 
Tennyson,  you  know,  it  was,  as  he  was  going  along  one  time,  seeing 
a  little  flower  in  a  crannied  wall,  said: 

Flower  in  the  crannied  wall,, 

I  pluck  you  out  of  the  crannies, 

I  hold  you  here,  root  and  all,  in  my  hand, 

Little  flower — but  if  I  could  understand 

What  you  are,  root  and  all,  and  all  in  all, 

I  should  know  what  God  and  man  is. 

This  lovely  girl  can't  see  those  flowers.  But  she  does  see  some- 
thing, my  brothers  and  sisters,  beyond  what  you  and  I  see.  She 
has  a  perception  of  beauty;  she  has  peace  in  her  soul;  she  has  some- 
thing Christ-like  that  God  exemplified,  and  it  brings  home  the  fact 
that  there  is  great  wisdom  in  the  experience  of  suffering  and  sorrow, 
and  it's  in  that  suffering  and  sorrow  that  we  acquire  these  divine 
attributes.  God  understood  it;  he  didn't  let  the  cup  pass  when  Jesus 
supplicated  that  it  might.  He  knew.  And  so,  some  have  to  go 
through  life  missing  some  of  the  tangible  things  you  and  I  enjoy,  but 
partaking  of  some  of  those  intangibles  that  transcend  them  all.  We 
had  a  great  lesson  here  yesterday,  not  only  of  how  peace  may  come 
into  the  human  soul,  but  also  of  how  men  and  women  exemplify  the 
teachings  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  ad  the  great  virtues  of  love  and 
sacrifice. 

Story  of  Blind  Woman 

I  remember  many  years  ago  of  reading,  I  believe  it  was  in  the 
old  Juvenile  Instructor,  a  beautiful  story,  and  it  has  stayed  with  me 
all  these  years.  It  is  said  that  on  one  occasion  President  Young  left 
his  home,  over  where  the  Bee  Hive  House  stands,  and  started  down 
State  Street.  There  used  to  be  a  stream  of  water,  part  of  City 
Creek,  flow  down  the  street,  and  the  sidewalk,  such  as  it  was,  or 
the  trail,  meandered  along  this  ditch;  and  as  President  Young  was 
making  his  way  down  he  saw  coming  up  the  trail  an  old  lady  with 
a  cane,  following  her  way  along  the  ditch.  She  couldn't  see.  In 
the  goodness  of  his  heart  President  Young  stopped  and,  taking  her 
by  the  hand,  he  said,  "My  dear  sister,  God  bless  you.  Let  the  light 
of  the  gospel  be  the  light  that  shines  beyond  the  rays  of  the  setting 
sun."  It's  the  gospel  of  Christ  that  brings  peace  to  all  of  us  and 
as  was  said  here,  appropriately,  the  reason  that  we  could  feel  it  so 
impressively  yesterday  is  because  we  were  paying  tribute  to  one 
who  had  exemplified  these  divine  virtues. 

Exercise  of  Agency 

And  so,  brethren  and  sisters,  there  is  hope  for  all  of  us.  There's 
hope  for  this  suffering  world.  President  Clark  called  our  attention 
last  night  to  one  very  potent  thing,  however:  namely,  that  we  can 
lose  our  agency.    We  have  the  agency  to  make  these  things  pos- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


sible;  we  also  have  the  agency  to  lose  them  because  God,  in  giving 
his  promises  to  his  children,  has  not  taken  it  from  us.  We  have 
the  right  to  do,  or  not  to  do,  and  we  have  the  right  to  establish  right- 
eousness. We  have  the  will  to  do  it  or  the  will  not  to  do  it.  Therein 
lies  the  great  danger,  and  if  we  fail,  or  if  failure  occurs,  it  will  be 
because  of  us  who  know  better.  But  we  have  great  hope  as  we 
visualize  what  has  happened  these  last  hundred  years.  Someone  has 
said  that  one  man  alone  with  a  message  of  peace  and  righteousness 
can  revolutionize  the  world.  The  Prophet  Joseph  stood  alone  a 
hundred  and  twenty  years  ago.  Today  we  number  1,100,000  peo- 
ple, and  that's  not  counting  the  hundreds  and  thousands  who  have 
passed  to  the  other  side.  It  merely  illustrates  what  one  man  alone 
can  do.  Jesus  stood  alone  when  he  stood  before  Pilate,  even  Peter 
had  deserted  him — he  knew  him  not,  he  said,  and  thus  Jesus  stood 
alone.  One  man  alone  can  give  hope  and  life  and  vitality  to  this 
world.  And  one  man  stood  alone  a  hundred  and  twenty  years  ago, 
and  today  we're  the  recipients  of  his  great  message  of  eternal  truth. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  again  thank- 
ing my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  blessings  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  for  the  peace  that  it  brings  to  the  human  soul,  and  I  do 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  one  of  the 
Assistants  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  We  have  a  few  moments 
to  hear  a  brief  report  from  Elder  Arwell  L.  Pierce,  formerly  Presi- 
dent of  the  Mexican  Mission  of  the  Church.  He  is  now  coming 
forward  and  will  speak  to  us  for  a  few  minutes. 


My  Brothers  and  Sisters,  this  is  a  humbling  experience  for  me. 
I  have  been  coming  to  this  Tabernacle,  to  attend  conferences,  for  the 
past  47  years.  The  first  time  was  in  1904  when  I  came  to  Salt  Lake 
City  to  be  set  apart  as  a  missionary  to  Mexico.  A  few  years  later  I 
came  here  in  my  callings  as  Branch  President  and  as  Bishop  in  El 
Paso,  Texas,  and  as  a  member  of  the  Juarez  Stake  Presidency.  Also 
during  the  more  than  seven  and  a  half  years  Sister  Pierce  and  I  pre- 
sided over  the  Mexican  Mission,  we  came  frequently  to  these 
General  Conferences  where  we  received  instruction  and  inspiration 
to  help  us  with  our  work.  This  is  however  the  first  time  I  have  ever 
spoken  in  a  General  Conference.  Sister  Pierce  and  I  are  thankful 
for  the  privilege  we  had  of  living  in  Mexico  City,  and  of  laboring 
in  many  places  in  the  Republic  of  Mexico,  as  well  as  in  the  Central 
American  republics  doing  missionary  work  for  the  Church. 


ELDER  ARWELL  L.  PIERCE 


Former  President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 


ELDER  ARWELL  L.  PIERCE 


111 


I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  my  grandparents  on  my  father's 
side  accepted  the  Gospel,  and  became  members  of  the  Church,  in 
1833,  only  three  years  after  the  Church  was  organized.  My  grand- 
father Pierce  lost  his  life  in  the  persecutions  of  the  Church  in  those 
early  days,  when  he  was  but  thirty  years  old.  My  widowed  grand- 
mother crossed  the  plains  and  came  to  Utah  with  her  three  small 
boys  in  the  year  1852,  just  five  years  after  the  first  pioneers  came 
to  this  great  valley.  I  am  proud  of  that  heritage.  I  am  proud  also  of 
the  fact  that  my  Pierce  forefathers  were  among  the  early  settlers 
of  this  great  land  of  America.  They  came  over  from  England  as 
early  as  1620  to  1625. 

I  am  grateful  that  my  father  was  a  Pioneer  in  the  L.D.S. 
Colonies  in  Mexico.  He  went  down  there  with  his  family  in  1890, 
just  five  years  after  the  first  Pioneers  arrived,  and  helped  establish 
those  Colonies.  I  have  often  wondered  why  my  father  went  to  Mexico 
with  his  family  at  that  time.  He  not  only  moved  down  there  that 
he  might  live  unmolested  with  his  family,  but  also  that  his  posterity 
might  become  missionaries  among  the  Mexican  people.  My  father's 
children  and  grandchildren  have  given  47  years  of  missionary  ser- 
vice in  the  Mexican  Mission.  Sister  Pierce  and  I  very  greatly  enjoyed 
our  missionary  labors  in  Mexico  and  Central  America. 

I  remember  that  several  years  ago,  it  was  in  1906,  two  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  Elders  John  Henry  Smith  and 
Francis  Marion  Lyman  were  Stake  Conference  visitors  in  the  Colo- 
nies in  Mexico.  On  their  return  trip  to  the  border,  I  met  them  in 
Ciudad  Juarez,  across  the  river  South  from  El  Paso,  Texas,  and 
took  them  to  the  office  of  the  American  Consul,  where  I  introduced 
them  as  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
In  his  reply  to  the  introduction,  Elder  John  Henry  Smith,  in  that 
well  known  diplomatic  way  of  his,  said  very  impressively,  "Yes, 
Consul  Edwards,  we  are  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ  which 
is  the  first-born  Church  of  America.  As  Christ  is  the  first  born  of 
His  Father,  so  the  Church  which  bears  His  name,  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  is  the  first-born  Church  of 
America."  So  far  as  I  know  that  statement  is  true,  for  all  the  other 
churches  of  that  time  had  their  origin  in  the  old  world,  the  eastern 
hemisphere. 

President  George  Albert  Smith  visited  El  Paso  in  the  year 
1926,  on  his  way  to  visit  the  Mexican  Mission.  President  Rey  L. 
Pratt,  with  Apostle  Melvin  J.  Ballard  was  in  South  America  to  open 
up  missionary  work  there.  Brother  Smith  couldn't  go  into  Mexico 
then  because  of  revolutionary  troubles,  so  he  stayed  in  my  home 
with  me  for  several  days  resting.  One  Sunday  morning,  one  of  my 
good  friends,  an  attorney,  who  was  teacher  of  the  Bible  class  in  his 
Church,  phoned  and  invited  me  to  give  a  talk  to  his  class  that 
morning.  I  was  happy  to  tell  him  that  Brother  George  Albert  Smith, 
one  of  the  Apostles  of  my  Church,  was  visiting  in  my  home.  The 
attorney  then  invited  Elder  Smith  to  speak  to  his  Bible  class  that 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday.  April  8  Second  Day 

Sunday  morning,  which  he  did  willingly.  As  Elder  Smith  stood 
before  that  Bible  class  he  held  up  a  book  and  said,  "This  is  the 
Mormon  Bible."  The  men  were  intensely  interested  of  course.  Elder 
Smith  then  turned  the  book  over,  so  they  could  see  the  title  of  it. 
He  then  said,  "This  is  the  King  James  Translation  of  the  Bible.  It  is 
the  same  Bible  you  have,  and  it  is  our  Bible  also."  Brother  Smith 
then  remarked,  "You  of  course  are  interested  in  seeing  what  the 
world  calls  the  Mormon  Bible."  He  then  held  up  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon and  said,  "Well,  this  is  the  so-called  Mormon  Bible,  known  to  us 
as  the  Book  of  Mormon."  Brother  Smith  then  explained  to  the 
men's  Bible  class  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  really  the  Bible  of  the 
people  of  America,  and  it  contains  the  word  of  God  just  as  much 
as  does  the  book  known  to  the  world  as  the  Bible. 

I  recall  with  much  interest  the  visit  of  President  George  Albert 
Smith  to  the  Mexican  Mission  in  May  of  1946.  The  special  reason 
for  his  visit  was  to  officially  receive  back  into  the  Mission  and  the 
Church  some  1200  members  who  for  ten  years  had  been  separated 
from  the  Church  under  their  own  leaders.  It  was  arranged  during 
President  Smith's  visit  to  Mexico  for  him  and  his  party  to  call  on 
the  President  of  Mexico,  General  Manuel  Avila  Camacho,  and 
present  him  with  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  the  Spanish 
language.  Secretary  of  Economy  Gustavo  P.  Serrano,  who  intro- 
duced President  Smith  and  his  party  to  the  President  of  Mexico, 
had  requested  of  us  that  we  tell  President  Camacho  about  our 
Mormon  colonists  in  Northern  Mexico,  which  we  were  pleased  to 
do.  President  Camacho  then  commented  saying,  "I  want  you  to 
know  that  I  have  received  many  good  reports  about  your  American 
Latter-day  Saint  colonists  in  Chihuahua.  I  know  them  to  be  a  virtu- 
ous people;  an  honest  people,  and  an  industrious  people.  If  there 
is  anything  I  can  do  at  any  time  for  you  or  for  your  people  I  stand 
ready  to  do  it." 

After  we  had  explained  briefly  to  President  Camacho  about 
our  mission  and  our  work  in  Mexico,  we  said,  "Mr.  President  we 
are  not  just  another  sect  that  has  come  into  your  midst,  for  we  come 
with  a  special  message  for  you  and  your  people.  We  are  here  to  tell 
you  of  your  forefathers  and  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 
We  then  asked,  "Mr.  President,  do  you  have  a  history  that  gives 
the  origin  of  your  people?"  The  President  replied  saying,  "We  do 
not;  unfortunately,  we  do  not  know  our  origin."  We  then  said  to 
him,  "We  have  a  book  that  purports  to  be  the  history  of  your 
people.  It  tells  of  a  great  prophet  who  with  his  family  and  others, 
left  Jerusalem  600  years  before  Christ,  and  came  to  this  country, 
this  great  land  of  America,  known  to  them  as  a  'land  of  promise, 
choice  above  all  other  lands'.  This  Book  of  Mormon  tells  also  of 
the  visit  of  Jesus  Christ  to  this  continent,  and  that  He  organized  His 
Church  and  chose  His  twelve  disciples." 

After  hearing  about  this  book,  President  Camacho  became  very 
interested  and  anxious,  saying  he  had  never  heard  about  the  Book 


ELDER  ARWELL  L.  PIERCE 


113 


of  Mormon.  He  then  asked,  "Would  it  be  possible  for  me  to  get  a 
copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon?  I  have  never  before  heard  about  it." 
President  Smith  then  presented  President  Camacho  with  a  leather 
bound  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  in  Spanish.  We  called  attention 
to  the  special  reference  sheet  we  had  posted  in  the  front  of  the  book 
and  observed  that  he  might  want  to  read  only  the  passages  listed 
therein,  for  lack  of  time.  President  Camacho  replied,  "I  shall  read 
the  entire  book,  for  this  is  of  great  interest  to  me  and  to  my  people." 

I  was  so  happy  that  President  Smith  could  make  that  trip,  for 
he  seemed  to  enjoy  it  immensely.  As  you  may  know,  President  Smith 
had  a  keen  sense  of  humor.  Well,  he  was  determined  to  climb  to  the 
top  of  the  Pyramid  of  the  Sun,  so  two  missionary  Elders,  one  on 
either  side  of  the  President,  helped  him  climb  those  many  steep 
steps  to  the  top.  About  half  way  up  President  Smith  stopped  and 
with  a  smile  looked  at  first  one  then  the  other  Elder  and  said,  "Well, 
I  might  help  one  of  you  up  here,  but  why  should  I  help  two  of 
you?"  (laughter) 

Brethren  and  Sisters,  the  work  of  the  Lord  is  growing  rapidly  in 
Mexico  and  Central  America.  We  have  found  among  those  people 
many  who  are  deeply  religious.  They  love  the  Book  of  Mormon,  once 
they  receive  it  and  learn  what  it  purports  to  be,  the  history  of  their 
forefathers.  They  carry  it  with  them  and  teach  the  Gospel  from  it. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  great  missionary  in  Mexico. 

Since  returning  to  our  home  in  El  Paso,  Texas,  I  have  had  many 
Gospel  talks  with  friends,  both  American  and  Mexican.  Recently 
the  Juarez  Rotary  Club,  ( Juarez  is  just  South  across  the  river  from 
El  Paso,  Texas)  of  which  I  was  a  member  before  going  on  my 
mission  to  Mexico,  invited  me  to  talk  to  them  and  give  a  report  of  my 
eight  years  of  absence  from  home  and  the  club.  As  I  stood  before 
the  group  I  remarked,  "Friends  of  Rotary,  I  cannot  give  you  a 
report  of  what  I  have  been  doing  in  Mexico  during  the  past  eight 
years  without  saying  something  about  my  Church  and  the  things 
it  teaches."  They  responded  saying,  "Go  ahead,  we  will  be  glad  to 
listen  to  what  you  have  to  say."  I  then  told  them  of  our  interview 
with  President  Manuel  Avila  Camacho,  and  of  the  story  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  which  is  the  history  of  their  forefathers,  and  their 
Bible.  Those  men  listened  attentively  to  all  I  had  to  say,  and 
when  I  had  finished  my  talk,  they  loudly  applauded,  as  they  arose  to 
their  feet.  The  President  came  up  and  gave  me  the  traditional 
Mexican  embrace,  to  show  his  appreciation.  After  the  meeting  several 
of  the  club  members  asked  my  sons  who  were  present,  if  it  would  be 
possible  for  them  to  get  one  of  those  Books  of  Mormon. 

I  would  like  to  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  visit  many  men  in  high  political  positions  in  Mexico  and 
in  Central  America.  Besides  three  Presidents  of  republics,  and 
several  cabinet  members,  I  have  visited  governors  of  states,  mayors 
of  cities,  presidents  of  universities,  doctors,  lawyers,  and  business 
men, — all  of  whom  have  received  me  graciously.  Not  one  has  re- 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

fused  to  receive  me  and  my  message.  Each  has  expressed  himself 
as  being  grateful  to  the  Lord  and  to  us  for  bringing  such  interesting 
and  wonderful  messages. 

Recently  I  met  a  prominent  minister  friend  of  mine,  at  a  local 
hospital  in  El  Paso.  I  had  gone  to  the  hospital  to  visit  a  sick  member 
of  my  High  Preists  quorum.  The  minister  was  at  the  hospital  to 
visit  one  of  his  church  members.  The  minister  and  I  have  been  good 
friends  for  many  years,  so  when  we  met  he  asked,,  "Bishop  Pierce, 
when  did  you  return  home,  we  are  surely  glad  to  have  you  back 
with  us  again.  How  did  you  enjoy  your  years  in  Mexico?"  I  will  not 
take  time  to  tell  of  all  the  details  of  our  very  interesting  talk.  I 
finally  asked  my  minister  friend  if  he  had  ever  read  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  He  said  he  had  never  read  it  and  indicated  he  didn't  care 
to  read  it.  I  told  him  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  Bible  of  America,  and 
just  as  much  the  word  of  God,  as  is  the  Bible,  for  it  is  a  new  witness 
for  Christ.  I  pointed  out  the  reasonableness  of  the  Americas  having 
their  Bible  as  well  as  the  Eastern  Hemisphere,  for  the  peoples  of  both 
hemispheres  were  children  of  our  Heavenly  Father.  I  then  suggested 
he  was  neglecting  his  education  by  not  reading  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
I  explained  to  him  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  told  of  Christ's  visit  to 
this  the  American  continent,  as  well  as  many  other  interesting  things 
about  the  book.  He  seemed  pleased  with  the  truths  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  as  I  gave  them  to  him,  and  then  he  asked,  "Where  can  I 
get  a  Book  of  Mormon?  I  believe  I  would  like  to  read  that  book." 
I  told  this  minister  that  he  was  just  as  much  entitled  to  the  truths  of 
the  Gospel  as  I,  and  I  was  sure  he  would  enjoy  reading  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  I  feel  as  President  George  Albert  Smith  often  expressed  it, 
"We  cannot  force  people  into  doing  things,  but  we  may  love  them 
into  doing  what  is  right,  and  into  righteousness."  Ministers  are  also 
prospects  if  only  we  can  touch  their  hearts  with  the  message  of  the 
restored  Gospel. 

I  desire  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  First  Presidency  and 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  as  well  as  to  others  of  the  General 
Authorities,  for  the  splendid  support  and  encouragement  Sister 
Pierce  and  I  received  from  them  while  we  were  presiding  in  the 
Mexican  Mission.  We  had  the  honor  and  blessing  of  having  two 
members  of  the  First  Presidency  visit  us  during  our  presidency. 
One  visit  from  President  George  Albert  Smith  as  already  related, 
and  two  visits  from  President  David  O.  McKay.  On  his  visits  Presi- 
dent McKay  did  much  to  encourage  and  help  us,  in  the  planning  for 
the  building  of  meeting  houses.  When  Sister  Pierce  and  I  entered 
the  Mission  in  1942  we  did  not  have  nice  meeting  houses  as  we  now 
have.  It  has  been  expressed  by  some  of  our  Anglo-American  mem- 
bers that  since  the  Mexican  members  are  poor  and  accustomed  to 
poorly  equipped  homes,  most  any  kind  of  cheap  adobe  hall  is  good 
enough  for  them  as  meeting  houses.  I  feel  however  that  since  we 
have  the  very  best  philosophy  of  life  in  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  to  give  to  the  Mexican  people,  why  should  we  not  give  them 


SUNDAY  AFTERNOON  SESSION  115 


meeting  houses  to  correspond  in  value  with  the  truths  of  the  Gospel 
we  give  them. 

May  God  bless  us  and  may  we  continue  to  be  faithful  and  true 
to  the  Gospel  which  we  have  received.  Sister  Pierce  and  I  are  now 
back  in  our  home  in  El  Paso,  following  our  mission  and  45  years 
of  leadership  work  in  the  Church.  We  are  enjoying  our  home  and  a 
brief  rest.  The  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing  "Crossing  the  Bar." 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Clifton  G.  M. 
Kerr,  South  Bear  River  Stake,  Utah,  after  which  this  conference 
will  stand  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon.  The  proceed- 
ings of  that  session  will  be  broadcast  over  KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City  and, 
by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over  the  stations  named  in  the  first 
session  of  the  Conference.  That  session  will  also  be  televised  over 
the  KSL  television  station,  channel  5. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and 
Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "Crossing  the  Bar." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang,  "Crossing  the  Bar." 
President  Clifton  G.  M.  Kerr  of  the  South  Bear  River  Stake 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 

SUNDAY  AFTERNOON  SESSION 

Conference  reconvened  Sunday  afternoon,  April  8,  at  2:00  p.m., 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  presiding  and  Elder  J.  Reuben 
Clark,  Jr.,  conducting  the  services. 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

This  is  the  fifth  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
are  convened  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of  the  Twelve,  is  presid- 
ing. He  has  asked  myself,  Brother  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  to  conduct  the  service. 

The  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud  speaking  system. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  of  Salt  Lake  City,  and,  by  arrangement  through  KSL,  over 
the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  the  conference. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  0  Second  Day 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television 
station,  channel  5. 

The  choir  music  for  this  session  will  be  rendered  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  will  begin  the  afternoon  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
singing:  "God's  Eternal  Plan." 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  George  L. 
Reese  of  the  Smithfield  Stake,  Utah. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "God's  Eternal  Plan." 
President  George  L.  Reese  of  the  Smithfield  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  "Fierce  Was  the  Wild  Bil- 
low." 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in  being  with  you  in  this  con- 
ference today.  I  feel  very  weak  and  humble  in  this  position,  and  I 
do  earnestly  pray  for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 

I  wish  to  extend  my  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the  great 
number  of  you  who  received  me  so  kindly  in  this  appointment.  I 
appreciate  the  many  prayers  that  have  gone  up  in  my  behalf.  With 
you,  I  feel  a  keen  loss  in  our  beloved  President  George  Albert  Smith. 
Coming  from  an  outside  stake,  I  feel  in  a  measure  that  I  represent 
the  good  people  who  live  on  the  fringe  of  the  Church,  who  do  not 
always  have  opportunity  to  express  the  love  that  is  in  their  hearts 
for  these  great  leaders  who  depart  from  among  us. 

Loved  by  All 

President  George  Albert  Smith  was  close  to  me,  he  always 
seemed  to  be  around  for  some  of  the  important  events  of  my  life. 
I  appreciated  sincerely  his  confidence  and  love,  and  I  rejoice  that  it 
was  he  who  called  me  to  this  present  assignment.  As  a  boy,  I  re- 
member his  coming  into  my  father's  and  mother's  home  to  attend 
quarterly  conferences  representing  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  And  as  I  relive  those  occasions,  I  rejoice  in  the  goodly 
effect  that  he  had  upon  my  life.  He  was  loved  by  all  good  members 
of  the  Church  everywhere.  He  radiated  a  kindly  and  lovable  spirit. 
Wherever  he  went,  he  brought  good  will  to  the  Church  and  its 
people.  As  has  been  said,  he  was  a  man  without  guile.  I  think  he 
has  left  with  us  a  gem  of  counsel  as  so  many  times  in  his  talks  he 
has  advised  us  to  stay  on  the  Lord's  side  of  the  line.  That  counsel 
will  live  throughout  eternity  in  our  hearts.    A  very  simple  state- 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY  117 


ment,  yet  one  that  will  produce  great  good  in  the  lives  of  individuals 
if  they  will  but  follow  it. 

The  eighth  chapter  in  the  leadership  of  this  Church  has  been 
closed  in  the  departing  of  this  good  man.  As  I  reflect  back  over  the 
eight  spiritual  leaders  of  this  people,  in  my  heart  I  feel  that  God 
wanted  each  of  them  to  lead  his  people,  and  that  each  was  specially 
fitted  and  endowed  for  the  work  of  his  time  and  generation.  The 
chapter  now  closed  in  the  book  of  the  life  and  activities  of  President 
George  Albert  Smith  is  a  glorious  one  of  great  attainment  on  the 
part  of  the  Church.  He  built  ably  upon  the  foundation  laid,  so  now 
this  people  can  continue  to  go  ahead  in  the  accomplishment  of  the 
great  purposes  that  God  has  for  his  people  to  accomplish. 

God  at  the  Helm 

As  I  have  thought  about  the  past  three  days  and  all  that  has 
taken  place,  my  testimony  has  increased  in  relation  to  the  work  we 
are  engaged  in.  All  plans  have  gone  forward  for  this  great  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  And  almost  on  the  eve  of  the  conference 
meetings,  the  Lord  took  from  us  our  beloved  President.  At  first  there 
was  a  great  feeling  of  loss,  but  I  don't  think  ever  a  feeling  of  frustra- 
tion, for  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  realized  that  vested  within  them 
were  all  the  powers,  authorities,  and  keys  necessary  to  carry  for- 
ward the  important  work  of  this  great  Church.  Committees  were 
appointed  to  plan  the  services  that  would  honor  and  recognize  our 
beloved  prophet-leader.  Everything  seemed  to  fit  into  a  proper  pat- 
tern, the  services  were  held,  and  our  hearts  were  touched  by  the 
beautiful  thoughts  expressed,  the  consolation  given  to  members  of 
the  family  and  to  all  of  us  who  mourn  the  passing  of  our  President. 

Yet  the  121st  annual  conference  went  on  as  scheduled  and  there 
was  a  feeling  that  God  was  at  the  helm;  that  the  affairs  of  his  Church, 
even  at  such  a  critical  time,  were  being  properly  handled.  And  so 
we  come  here  today,  not  disturbed  in  our  faith,  not  disturbed  in  the 
leadership  now  handling  the  affairs  of  the  Church.  Everything  has 
fit  into  a  pattern,  for  God  established  the  pattern,  and  the  people 
know  where  the  authority  of  leadership  is  vested  when  the  President 
prophet-leader  is  taken.  There  has  hardly  been  a  ripple  in  the  scene 
of  our  work  or  activities,  and  yet  we  have  paused  properly  to  honor 
and  recognize  our  great  spiritual  leader. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  this  is  to  me  a  testimony  of  the  strength 
and  divinity  of  this  work.  In  my  heart,  I  feel  that  God  is  with  us  and 
directing  his  work,  that  as  we  go  from  this  conference  to  our  homes, 
we  will  not  be  confused,  nor  will  we  feel  in  our  hearts  that  this  work 
will  stop;  there  will  be  unity  in  our  faith,  we  will  go  away  in  confi- 
dence, knowing  that  the  work  of  the  Lord  will  continue  to  go  for- 
ward and  fulfil  its  destiny  in  the  earth.  And  as  I  reflect  upon  these 
things,  I  remember  what  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
before  the  Prophet  had  been  endowed  with  the  priesthood  and  be- 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Second  Day 

fore  the  Church  itself  had  been  organized.  He  said  that  "a  great 
and  a  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  unto  the  children  of 
men";  and  surely  this  is  a  great  and  marvelous  work  which  we  rep- 
resent. Very  shortly  after  the  organization  of  the  Church,  less  than 
a  year  and  a  half,  the  Lord  speaking  to  the  elders  of  the  Church  said: 

Wherefore,  be  not  weary  in  well-doing,  for  ye  are  laying  the  founda- 
tion of  a  great  work.  And  out  of  small  things  proceedeth  that  which  is 
great.  (D.  &  C.  64:33.) 

According  to  the  law  that  God  had  revealed,  and  in  keeping 
with  the  law  of  the  land,  this  Church  was  established  with  only  six 
members.  Yet  the  early  rise  of  the  Church  from  that  humble  begin- 
ning was  great  and  marvelous,  the  Lord  was  pleased,  and  the  breth- 
ren engaged  in  the  work  of  the  ministry  had  been  very  diligent  and 
devoted.  The  Lord  didn't  want  them  to  be  weary  in  well-doing 
because  they  were  laying  the  foundations  of  a  great  work.  In  the 
preface  to  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord  said: 

.  .  .  those  to  whom  these  commandments  were  given,  might  have 
power  to  lay  the  foundation  of  this  church,  and  to  bring  it  forth  out 
of  obscurity  and  out  of  darkness,  the  only  true  and  living  church  upon  the 
face  of  the  whole  earth.  (Ibid.,  1 :30.) 

And  then  again,  a  little  later  the  Lord  said: 

For  Zion  must  increase  in  beauty,  and  in  holiness;  her  borders  must  be 
enlarged;  her  stakes  must  be  strengthened;  yea,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  Zion 
must  arise  and  put  on  her  beautiful  garments.  ( Ibid.,  82 : 14. ) 

Men  of  Strength 

We  know  the  Church  passed  through  many  trials  and  many 
tribulations,  that  brethren  along  the  way  deserted  the  Prophet,  and 
the  Saints  suffered  mobbings  and  all  types  of  hardships  and  priva- 
tions, but  there  were  in  the  Church  men  of  strength  and  character, 
men  who  believed  in  this  great  latter-day  work;  and  the  power  of 
the  Lord  rested  with  them.  They  were  undaunted  in  the  face  of 
these  difficulties.  But  the  work  of  the  Lord  went  on,  and  our  people 
were  led  here  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains  by  President  Brigham 
Young.  He  had  the  vision  of  enlarging  the  borders  of  Zion  and 
sent  out  groups  to  colonize  and  settle  the  fertile  valleys  of  these 
mountains,  both  north  and  south  and  east  and  west.  Thus  the  great 
work  of  the  Church  has  continued  to  grow,  even  until  the  present 
time,  and  each  of  our  prophet  leaders  took  his  place,  gave  of  him- 
self and  of  the  talents  that  God  had  blessed  him  with  to  establish 
firmly  the  foundations  of  this  work.  And  as  surely  as  we  are  here 
today,  it  has  been  brought  forth  out  of  obscurity  and  out  of  dark- 
ness, and  stands  as  a  beacon  of  light  upon  the  hill  to  all  peoples  and 
nations  of  the  earth.  We  have  witnessed  in  the  progress  of  the 
Church,  a  great  enlarged  program  to  take  care  of  our  people.  This 
program  encircles  the  entire  life  of  the  Church  membership  and  gives 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


119 


them  every  opportunity  for  growth,  for  development,  and  for  train- 
ing. Surely  in  this  work,  the  Lord  has  been  with  his  people;  so  today 
with  pride  in  our  progress  we  claim  almost  sixteen  hundred  wards 
and  branches  of  the  Church,  184  stakes,  scattered  up  and  down  this 
western  area  with  some  to  the  east  of  us.  We  also  have  many  mis- 
sions established  throughout  the  world,  and  with  all  our  program 
and  activity,  the  Church  itself  is  known  far  and  wide  and  assuming 
its  place  of  leadership  and  of  power  in  shaping  the  lives  of  men  and 
of  nations. 

Proselyting  in  Stakes 

And  it  seems  to  me,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  in 
this  enlargement  of  our  borders  has  been  with  this  people,  and  has 
so  arranged  it  that  we  are  now  established  in  the  population  centers 
of  this  western  area.  We  have  built  our  places  of  worship,  our 
places  of  recreation,  and  in  all  this  building,  and  in  all  this  planning, 
and  in  all  this  preparation,  the  leadership  of  the  Church  under  the 
inspiration  of  God  have  not  had  in  mind  only  that  we  should  take 
care  of  our  own,  but  that  the  facilities  we  have  provided  should  be 
made  available  to  our  friends.  We  have  been  counseled  to  warn 
our  neighbors,  not  to  hide  our  light  under  a  bushel,  but  to  place  it 
where  it  can  be  seen  of  men,  that  they  may  have  the  opportunities 
and  the  blessings  this  Church  affords  and  that  you  and  I  enjoy. 

And  it  does  seem  to  me,  brothers  and  sisters,  in  this  present 
critical  situation  where  it  is  impossible  to  send  all  the  missionaries 
into  foreign  fields  we  need  to  send,  that  we  must  take  advantage  of 
the  proselyting  opportunity  that  is  ours  in  the  branches,  wards,  and 
stakes  of  the  Church;  and  through  our  stake  missionary  program 
make  available  to  those  who  are  investigating,  the  facilities  of  our 
Church,  that  the  children  of  our  friends  and  investigators  can  come 
to  Primary,  to  Sunday  School,  the  young  men  and  women  to  Mu- 
tual, the  mothers  to  Relief  Society,  and  all  to  our  sacrament  meet- 
ings. If  we  as  God's  people  would  warn  our  neighbors,  and  if  we 
would  be  friends  with  our  neighbors,  we  will  invite  them  to  come 
with  us  and  investigate  this  thing  we  know  to  be  true  and  of  God. 

Invitation  to  Come  and  See 

I  think  it  was  only  a  year  ago  that  President  George  Albert 
Smith  from  this  pulpit  said  that  we  should  invite  our  friends  and 
our  associates  to  come  and  see.  There  is  much  in  the  Church  for 
people  to  come  and  see,  and  if  we  who  are  members  of  the  Church 
would  live  as  we  should  live,  we  would  never  be  ashamed  of  that 
which  our  friends  and  our  associates  do  see.  Not  so  long  ago  in 
attending  a  conference,  I  heard  a  young  lady  missionary  in  making 
her  report  say  that  in  her  missionary  experience  she  felt  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  working  with  her.  And  I  thought  what  a  grand  thing  it 
would  be  if  all  people  of  the  Church  felt  that  in  their  callings  and 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

appointments  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  working  with  them.  I  am 
just  as  confident  as  I  can  be  that  regardless  of  our  calling  and  ap- 
pointments or  holding  the  priesthood,  we  who  are  the  men  of  the 
Church,  that  unless  we  have  the  Holy  Spirit  of  the  Lord  abiding 
with  us  in  our  work  and  ministry,  we  will  never  accomplish  the 
purposes  of  God.  We  need  the  Holy  Spirit;  we  need  its  power 
and  its  gifts  and  its  influences  with  us  in  our  callings  and  offices, 
if  we  carry  out  successfully  the  responsibility  associated  with  those 
callings  and  appointments. 

I  have  a  testimony  of  this  work;  I  know  it  is  true.  I  hope  and 
pray,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  we  will  devote  ourselves  to  its  high 
responsibilities.  It  is  the  most  important  thing  we  have  at  hand  to 
do.  May  we  be  appreciative  of  the  Church,  of  its  leadership,  of 
its  doctrines,  and  all  the  blessings  we  enjoy,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Naturally  the  thoughts  of  the  speakers  at  this  conference  have 
turned  to  President  Smith,  so  recently  departed.  Mine  run  the  same 
way.  If  he  were  standing  here  today  where  I  stand,  I  can  easily 
conjecture  him  as  pleading  with  the  people  to  live  their  religion, 
that  is,  to  live  in  practice  up  to  the  high  standards  of  what  they  have 
been  taught. 

Judged  According  to  Works 

I  should  like,  if  I  may,  to  say  a  little  about  that,  with  particular 
reference  to  the  personal  responsibility  of  each  individual  for  what 
he  turns  out  to  be. 

It  was  permitted  to  John  the  Revelator  to  glimpse  the  future  as 
the  revelation  of  things  to  come  passed  in  panoramic  view  before 
his  vision.   Among  other  things,  he  says: 

And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great,  stand  before  God;  .  .  .  and 
they  were  judged  every  man  according  to  their  works.  {Rev.  20: 12.) 

Two  lines  of  thought  closely  related  and  of  tremendous  conse- 
quence to  all  of  us  are  stimulated  by  this  graphic  statement.  First, 
there  is  implicit  in  it  the  thesis  that  death  is  not  the  end  of  man. 
Those  marshalled  for  rating  had  died,  for  it  was  the  dead  whom 
John  saw.  Second,  their  classification  and  recompense  depended 
upon  their  own  deeds,  what  they  had  done  while  they  yet  lived.  It 
is  this  second  feature  of  the  vision  to  which  I  wish  to  direct  atten- 
tion. 

As  the  hosts  from  the  dead  passed  before  the  throne,  they  were 
judged  every  man,  according  to  his  works.  That  is  justice  in  the 
highest  sense  of  the  term.  It  is  judgment  founded  in  righteousness. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


121 


It  reaches  completely  up  to  the  perfect  ideal.  No  fault  can  be  found 
in  it,  for  every  man  is  to  be  classified  and  rewarded  on  the  basis 
of  his  own  individual  performance.  It  has  always  been  the  con- 
ception of  enlightened  nations  of  free  men,  particularly  those  whose 
laws  are  rooted  in  the  Christian  code,  that  only  to  that  degree  in 
which  judgments  have  embraced  righteousness  have  they  approxi- 
mated justice.  Long  ago  the  Prophet  Amos  coupled  the  two  together 
in  their  proper  relationship,  and  no  right-thinking  man  has  ever 
been  able,  or  tried  to  sever  the  bond  which  inseparably  unites  them. 
Amos  admonished  his  nation: 

...  let  judgment  roll  down  as  waters,  and  righteousness  as  a  mighty 
stream.  (Amos  5:24.) 

Meaning  of  Righteousness 

I  hesitate  to  use  the  word  righteousness  because  it  has  come 
to  have  attached  to  it  the  malodor  of  hypocrisy.  Too  commonly, 
one  who  is  spoken  of  as  possessed  of  the  quality  of  righteousness 
is  derisively  sneered  at,  as  if  the  term  characterized  him  as  a  pre- 
tender, a  self-exalter,  one  who  arrogates  to  himself  superior  virtues, 
as  exemplified  in  the  parable  of  Jesus  about  the  Pharisee  who  publicly 
thanked  God  that  he  was  not  as  other  men  and  loudly  proclaimed 
his  own  virtues.  Jesus  said  that  the  publican  who,  standing  apart, 
alone,  humbly  prayed  God  to  be  merciful  to  him  a  sinner  would  be 
justified  before  the  other. 

No  sense  of  opprobrium  properly  attaches  to  the  term  righteous- 
ness. It  signifies  that  which  is  in  accordance  with  right,  or  character- 
ized by  uprighteousness  or  morality.  There  is  no  other  word  to 
take  its  place.  I  am  therefore  obliged  to  use  it  and  trust  to  its  being 
understood  in  its  proper  sense. 

John's  statement  about  the  basis  of  judgment  must  be  read  as 
affirming  that  there  are  things  which  everybody  is  expected  to  do. 
The  promise  of  rewards  based  upon  works  presupposes  that  there 
are  requirements  prescribed.  Where  there  is  no  law,  there  can  be 
no  judgment  under  the  law  is  a  principle  of  divine  as  well  as  secular 
governance.  The  prescribed  requirements,  naturally,  are  to  be 
sought  in  the  teachings  of  Jesus  for  John  was  his  disciple.  And  by 
his  revelation,  John  tells  us,  he  was  shown  the  things  he  saw. 

Observance  of  Law 

On  his  final  visit  to  the  disciples  before  his  ascension,  as  has 
before  been  stated  today,  Jesus  commissioned  them  to  carry  his  mes- 
sage to  all  people,  telling  those  whom  they  proselyted  to  observe 
all  things  whatsoever  he  had  commanded  them.  Here,  then,  is  the 
law  on  the  basis  of  which  all  are  to  be  judged.  So  far  as  I  can  dis- 
cern, there  is  not  one  thing  in  all  that  Jesus  taught  that  would  not, 
if  practised,  promote  righteousness  and  justice  in  the  earth.  Nobody 
would  be  harmed  by  universal  conformance  to  every  rule  governing 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

human  conduct  which  he  promulgated.  One  cannot  think  that  it 
was  ever  intended  that  man  should  be  consigned  to  live  perpetually 
in  this  earth  amid  the  carnage  and  bestiality  and  bickering  and  hat- 
red and  cruelty;  the  plundering  of  one  by  another;  the  deception  and 
greed;  the  striving  for  advantage  of  one  over  another;  the  despoiling 
of  fellow  creatures;  the  stifling  and  crushing  out  of  all  sentiments  of 
mercy  and  human  kindness  by  the  violence  of  brute  force  and  by 
submerging  righteousness  and  everything  that  makes  life  beautiful, 
under  the  vile,  putrid,  hideous,  and  ugly  flocks  of  vice  which  swirl 
over  the  land.  All  this  and  all  the  groveling  ugliness  of  human 
degradation  paraded  before  us  in  the  daily  press  are  in  direct  an- 
tagonism to  the  benevolence  and  brotherhood,  the  worth  and  dignity 
of  the  human  soul  with  its  God-given  right  to  be  free  from  the 
bondage  of  oppression;  the  admonitions  to  love  and  mercy,  to  be 
pure  in  heart,  and  to  hunger  and  thirst  after  righteousness,  expound- 
ed as  guides  to  righteousness  and  abundant  living  by  the  Christ. 

The  other  day  J.  Edgar  Hoover  told  the  Senate  committee  in- 
vestigating syndicated  crime  in  America  that  gambling  could  be 
cleansed  out  at  once  if  officials  in  states  and  cities  would  honestly 
enforce  the  law,  instead  of  conniving  with  those  who  are  willing  to 
pay  the  price  of  protection  for  the  violation  of  the  law.  Following 
gambling  would  go  the  whole  brood  of  loathsome  evils  spawned  by 
it.  If  that  could  be  done,  how  infinitely  more  could  the  earth  be 
cleansed  by  a  simple  observance  of  the  laws  laid  down  as  the  basis 
for  divine  judgment  and  justice. 

Be  Ye  Therefore  Perfect 

On  another  occasion,  even  before  his  crucifixion,  holding  up  to 
view  the  mission  and  purpose  of  life,  the  goal  of  man's  striving,  his 
ultimate  destiny,  the  Lord  said,  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as 
your  Father  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  (Matt.  5:48.)  This 
terse  sentence  epitomizes  all  that  Jesus  taught  about  the  mission  of 
life  and  the  destiny  of  man.  It  seems  on  its  face  a  hard  saying,  and 
many  have  felt  that  it  sets  a  task  beyond  all  possibility  of  accomplish- 
ing, and  that  there  is  no  use  trying;  that  it  projects  an  ideal  so  utter- 
ly unrealistic  as  to  make  it  of  little  value.  There  might  be  some 
validity  to  this  objection,  if  life  is  to  be  thought  of  only  in  terms  of 
mortal  probation.  To  get  full  value  of  the  admonition  we  need  a 
broader  understanding  of  the  work  of  life. 

President  Brigham  Young  let  some  light  in  on  that  in  one  of  his 
sermons.  After  quoting  the  saying,  he  remarked:  "If  the  .  .  .  passage 
I  have  quoted  is  not  worded  to  our  understanding,  we  can  alter  the 
phraseology  of  the  sentence,  and  say:  Be  ye  perfect  as  ye  can,'  for 
that  is  all  we  can  do." 

"When  we  are  doing  as  well  as  we  know  how  in  the  sphere  and 
station  which  we  occupy  here,  we  are  justified  in  the  justice,  right- 
eousness, mercy,  and  judgment  that  go  before  the  Lord  of  heaven 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


123 


and  earth.  We  are  as  justified  as  the  angels  who  go  before  the 
throne  of  God.  The  sin  that  will  cleave  to  all  the  posterity  of 
Adam  and  Eve  is  that  they  have  not  done  as  well  as  they  know 
how."  (J.  D.  2:129.) 

Righteous  Judgment 

That  puts  the  admonition  to  be  perfect  on  a  practical  working 
basis.  It  is  within  the  range  of  the  possibility  of  attainment.  It 
tells  us,  too,  something  about  how  high  a  prerogative  rendering 
judgment  is.  It  requires  for  righteous  dispensation  of  justice  divine 
omniscience.  That  is  perhaps  why  God  reserved  judgment  to  him- 
self.  They  whom  John  saw  stood  before  God. 

He  would  have  complete  knowledge  of  all  the  essential  facts, 
which  mortals  rendering  human  judgments  perhaps  never  have,  and 
which  so  often  results  in  miscarriage  of  justice.  God  would  have  com- 
plete understanding  of  all  the  influences  that  have  gone  into  the  shap- 
tive  have  always  been  inspired  of  God.  I  am  glad  that  I  was  born  in 
ing  of  the  life  to  be  judged;  the  knowledge  possessed  and  the  oppor- 
tunity for  knowing;  the  capacity  for  understanding  what  he  had 
been  taught;  the  kind  of  association  and  society  he  has  the  capacity 
to  mingle  congenially  with;  and  from  all  the  manifold  factors  in- 
volved, put  the  one  judged  where  he  belongs,  which  is  what  final 
judgment  really  is. 

Progressive  Beings 

This  interpretation  introduces  the  principle  that  it  is  not  intend- 
ed that  we  shall  accomplish  everything  in  this  life,  but  that  we  are 
expected  to  be  progressive  beings,  growing  toward  our  final  destiny. 
But  that  principle  in  no  way  excuses  us  from  doing  the  best  we  can, 
or  from  acquiring  all  the  knowledge  that  we  have  capacity  and  op- 
portunity to  assimilate  as  we  go  along.  We  have  some  very  specific 
teachings  about  that.    The  scriptures  say: 

Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it  will 
rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection. 

And  if  a  person  gains  more  knowledge  and  intelligence  in  this  life 
through  his  diligence  and  obedience  than  another,  he  will  have  so  much  the 
advantage  in  the  world  to  come.  (D.  &  C.  130:18-19.) 

Intelligence  has  been  interpreted  as  the  ability  to  comprehend 
and  respond  to  light  and  truth.  But  it  is  clear  from  what  has  been 
quoted  that  knowledge  and  intelligence  are  congenial  companions; 
and  moreover,  that  to  achieve  them  requires  industry,  study,  dili- 
gence, and  obedience.  Their  acquisition  is  governed  by  the  uni- 
versal law  of  reward  for  effort.  They  do  not  come  as  gratuitous 
bestowals  upon  the  idler  or  the  indifferent. 

Excellence  Through  Effort 

This  is  the  point  I  wanted  especially  to  emphasize  here  today, 
and  it  is  the  reason,  perhaps,  for  all  that  I  have  said  before.  There 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Dag 

is  nothing  in  all  the  history  and  experience  of  the  race,  nothing  in 
the  teachings  of  Jesus,  nothing  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  which 
warrants  the  assumption  that  excellence  may  be  attained  without 
effort,  either  in  the  spiritual  realm  or  the  temporal  domain;  or  that 
high  exaltation  may  be  achieved  by  a  mere  profession  of  faith,  or 
passive  adherence  to  a  creed  or  body  of  doctrines.  Jesus  made  that 
abundantly  clear  in  saying: 

Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  father  which  is  in  heaven.  (Matt.  7:21.) 

It  is  to  be  noted  that  the  teachings  of  Jesus  pertained  mostly 
to  this  life.  From  time  to  time  he  gave  us  glimpses  of  a  glorious  fu- 
ture. But  these  were  conditioned  upon  what  we  do  here,  just 
as  by  John's  revelation  the  dead  were  judged  by  the  works  they  had 
done  while  they  lived.  We  are  not  here  just  to  prepare  to  die, 
but  rather  to  live,  and  to  use  all  our  powers  to  perfect  ourselves  by 
acquiring  knowledge,  developing  our  talents,  building  virtue  unto 
ourselves,  conquering  evil,  by  practising  the  things  we  know.  The 
progress  we  make  here  determines  our  status  hereafter. 


A  Practical  Religion 

We  have  a  very  practical  religion.  It  pertains  to  our  lives 
now.  And  the  reward  of  observance  of  the  law  is  not  altogether 
postponed  to  a  future  on  the  other  side  of  the  grave.  Building  up 
the  kingdom  involves  some  very  practical  things.  It  is  not  alto- 
gether concerned  with  the  non-material  lying  out  in  the  ethereal 
realm.  The  building  of  meetinghouses,  places  of  worship,  schools, 
temples,  for  example,  clearly  is  for  spiritual  purposes.  But  they 
involve  a  large  element  of  the  material.  They  are  essential  to  the 
building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  And  where  would  you  classify 
the  beautifying  of  your  home;  the  making  of  refined  surroundings? 
It  is  necessary  to  provide  the  things  that  sustain  life,  to  master 
the  arts  and  crafts  and  trades  that  meet  the  needs  of  progress  and 
improvement.  I  do  not  think  I  can  find  the  line  that  divides  the 
spiritual  from  the  temporal. 

Nobody  in  this  life  can  gain  proficiency  in  all  the  realms  of  hu- 
man knowledge  or  skills  or  endeavors,  yet  they  complement  each 
other,  and  each  is  essential  to  the  completeness  of  the  whole.  By 
the  cooperative  endeavor  of  all  in  an  organized  body,  each  doing 
what  his  talent  suits  him  for,  the  kingdom  can  be  prepared.  I  sup- 
pose the  Tightness  of  what  either  one  does  depends  upon  the  pur- 
pose or  the  motive  which  stimulates  the  pursuit,  whether  that  be 
the  promoting  of  good  among  men,  the  furtherance  of  righteousness, 
or  whether  it  be  the  gratification  of  a  selfish  ambition,  to  be  achieved 
without  regard  to  consequences  to  others,  or  its  influence  on  human 
progress  or  improvement. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


125 


Growth  Through  Activity 

Knowledge  lying  dormant  and  not  employed  to  useful  purposes 
is  of  very  little  value.  One  may  attain  membership  in  the  Church, 
for  example,  by  complying  with  all  the  requisite  initiatory  ordi- 
nances, but  if  he  stops  there,  as  some  do,  he  may  not  assume  that  his 
salvation  is  assured,  no  matter  how  correct  in  the  abstract  his  per- 
sonal conduct  may  be.  One  must  progress  or  retrograde.  One  can- 
not stand  still.  Activity  is  the  law  of  growth,  and  growth,  prog- 
ress, is  the  law  of  life.  Obedience  to  the  governing  law,  coopera- 
tion with  others,  helping  them  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God  is  in- 
dispensable. 

There  are,  properly  speaking,  no  laymen  in  this  Church.  There 
is  labor  for  all,  and  labor,  toil,  effort  in  harmony  and  accord  with 
established  law  is  the  only  known  road  to  progress.  Salvation  is  a 
relative  term,  admitting  of  varying  degrees.  There  can  be  no  other 
meaning  to  John's  revelation  that  "each  will  be  rewarded  according 
to  his  works."  The  slothful  or  indolent  or  indifferent  can  expect  no 
high  rating,  no  matter  how  voluble  in  professions  of  faith,  or  how 
profuse  they  may  be  in  protestations  of  devotion  to  their  creeds. 

And  I  humbly  pray  that  each  of  us  as  we  go  from  here  will  go 
with  a  full  realization  that  whatever  we  hope  for,  whatever  we 
aspire  to  achieve  will  be  dependent  upon  our  willingness  to  pay 
the  price  in  individual  endeavor.  We  may  not  lean  upon  any  other 
human  being  but  can  be  aided  by  the  help  we  receive  from  God  if 
we  serve  him  faithfully  and  keep  his  commandments  every  day, 
which  I  pray  we  may  do,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing 
the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  deeply  grateful  for  the  experi- 
ences that  have  been  mine  the  past  four  years,  and  I  sorrow  with 
you  in  the  passing  of  President  George  Albert  Smith.  It  was  he  who 
advised  me  four  years  ago  of  my  call  to  the  Twelve,  and  no  man 
could  have  shown  more  love  or  affection  or  consideration  for  a  new 
member  of  the  Quorum  than  did  President  Smith.  If  I  were  to  be 
called  upon  today  to  express  the  chief  characteristic  of  the  brethren 
with  whom  I  associate,  I  should  say  that  it  is  that  virtue  which  has 
been  so  properly  credited  to  President  George  Albert  Smith. 

There  is  an  eternal  truth,  the  verity  of  which  I  am  certain,  that 
love  begets  love,  and  as  we  love  one  another,  our  ability  to  love 
increases.  This  has  been  my  experience  as  I  have  labored  so  closely 
during  the  past  four  years  with  these  brethren  whom  I  love  so  dear- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


ly.  I  have  been  conscious  in  my  own  life  that  as  the  days  and  the 
months  and  the  years  have  gone  by,  my  ability  to  love  my  fellow 
men  has  correspondingly  increased. 


I  doubt  that  I  have  ever  in  my  life  seen  an  example  of  the  love 
and  devotion  of  one  man  for  another  more  than  that  exhibited  by 
President  George  Albert  Smith  for  President  George  F.  Richards. 
As  our  boat  docked  in  the  harbor  of  Honolulu  last  August,  word  was 
brought  on  board  that  President  George  F.  Richards  had  that  morn- 
ing passed  away.  To  me,  it  was  a  testimony  of  the  virtue  of  our 
great  past  President  to  see  the  love  and  the  affection  that  he  bore 
for  his  companion  of  more  than  forty  years  in  the  Presiding  councils 
of  this  Church.  His  heart  was  filled  with  grief,  and  though  he  was 
not  well,  even  then,  and  certainly  not  physically  strong,  his  first  im- 
pulse, his  first  impression  was  to  fly  home.  He  turned  to  me  and 
said,  "Brother  Moyle,  don't  you  think  we  ought  to  get  off  the  boat 
and  fly  right  back  to  attend  the  funeral  and  to  pay  our  respects  to 
the  life's  work  of  President  Richards?"  Well,  it  seemed  to  be  wis- 
dom to  advise  the  President  to  conserve  his  strength  to  remain  and 
perform  the  special  mission  upon  which  he  had  embarked  and  had 
so  graciously  taken  me  with  him.  Then,  finally,  when  word  arrived 
from  his  good  Counselors  here  at  home,  he  was  satisfied  that  it  was 
the  wise  and  the  discreet  thing  to  do  to  stay  there.  But  that  did  not 
minimize  the  love  or  the  affection  that  President  Smith  bore  Presi- 
dent Richards  in  the  sorrow  he  felt  at  his  passing. 

I  want  to  bear  testimony  today  that  it  has  been  my  choice  privi- 
lege during  these  recent  past  years  to  become  intimately  acquainted 
with  two  of  the  choice  sons  of  our  Heavenly  Father  who  have  now 
been  called  home.  I  don't  know  that  a  father  could  have  shown  a 
son,  even  his  favored  son,  more  affection  than  President  Richards 
bestowed  upon  me  during  the  years  that  I  had  the  privilege  to  serve 
under  him  in  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 


I  want  to  say  today,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  supplement 
what  Brother  Cowley  said  this  morning,  that  just  as  certain  as  it  is 
necessary  to  have  a  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  upon  the  earth,  so  it  is 
necessary  that  that  quorum  should  be  comprised  of  men  who  love 
one  another.  I  bear  this  humble  testimony  to  you  today  that  the 
men  who  constitute  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  men  who  are  devot- 
ed, not  only  to  the  service  to  which  they  have  been  called,  but  also 
to  one  another.  I  was  grateful  for  the  words  of  Brother  Cowley 
this  morning  when  he  referred  to  our  meeting  in  the  temple  Thurs- 
day. A  like  number  of  men  could  not  be  gathered  anywhere  in  this 
world  under  any  other  circumstances  and  find  in  their  hearts  the 


President  Smith's  Example 


Love  Among  Brethren 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


127 


love  and  the  devotion,  the  loyalty  for  one  another  that  exists  in 
this,  the  Presiding  Council  of  this  Church  today. 

Interest  in  Individuals 

I  was  very  greatly  impressed  when  President  Smith  became 
president  of  this  Church.  One  of  his  early  responsibilities  as  presi- 
dent was  to  attend  a  welfare  meeting  of  the  General  Committee  on 
Friday  morning.  His  conduct  there  was  indicative  of  the  life  that 
he  had  lived,  the  service  that  he  had  rendered  his  people,  the  knowl- 
edge that  he  had  of  the  individual  members  of  this  Church.  That 
first  morning  a  case  came  before  us  for  his  consideration.  It  was  the 
application  for  assistance  of  a  humble  Saint.  He  had  come  from  a 
country  in  Europe,  had  not  been  here  long,  unknown  to  most  of  us 
although  some  of  us  had  labored  as  missionaries  in  that  some  coun- 
try. In  the  presentation  of  his  case  we  were  just  a  little  impersonal 
and  had  not  particularly  emphasized  his  name.  But  the  mere  men- 
tion of  it  caused  President  Smith  to  ask  if  that  man  was  not  a  former 
resident  of  Berlin.  And  when  we  told  him  that  he  was,  he  said, 
"How  can  we  refrain  from  giving  consideration  to  his  case?  His 
generosity  in  the  Church  deserves  our  help.  It  was  my  privilege  to 
eat  at  that  man's  table."  We  found  out  later  that  he  and  his  family 
had  saved  of  their  earnings  for  a  week  and  had  little  or  nothing  to 
eat  for  that  week,  practically  fasted  in  order  that  they  might  have 
the  means  with  which  to  spread  what  they  thought  was  an  approp- 
riate dinner  before  a  servant  of  God  who  had  been  sent  into  their 
midst,  one  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  George  Albert  Smith.  I 
tell  you,  his  interest  in  the  people  of  this  Church  individually  can 
hardly  be  excelled.   He  was  interested  in  the  smallest  details. 

Care  of  Church  Funds 

I  just  want  to  bear  witness  to  one  other  incident.  On  one  of 
the  Friday  mornings  when  we  were  presenting  our  usual  matters  of 
business,  there  were  some  items  that  involved  not  more  than  five 
dollars  or  ten  dollars  or  fifteen  dollars,  and  the  question  was  raised 
as  to  whether  it  was  necessary  to  bring  such  trivial  items  to  the  at- 
tention of  the  First  Presidency  for  their  approval.  The  matter  was 
taken  under  consideration,  and  I  confess  I  expected  that  there  might 
be  some  limit  below  which  the  Welfare  Committee  might  act  without 
bringing  it  for  the  final  approval  of  the  Presidency  and  our  advisers 
on  the  Friday  morning.  But  no,  when  the  next  Friday  came,  President 
Smith  said,  "We'll  continue  to  follow  the  rule  which  you  have 
always  followed,  and  there  will  be  no  item  too  small  for  the  con- 
sideration of  the  brethren  here  at  this  Friday  morning  meeting." 

Now,  when  we  have  men  of  that  kind  entrusted  to  the  high 
offices  of  this  Church,  there  are  none  of  us  that  need  to  worry  about 
the  manner  in  which  the  Church  and  its  affairs  are  taken  care  of. 
The  meticulous  care  with  which  the  funds  of  this  Church  are  guarded 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

is  a  revelation  to  me,  because  that  kind  of  care  does  not  exist  in  the 
ordinary  businesses  of  mankind  in  the  world. 

A  Great  Missionary 

President  Smith  was  a  great  missionary.  As  we  were  going 
over  to  Hawaii  on  the  boat,  on  the  night  of  the  captain's  dinner 
President  Smith  felt  that  he  should  do  something  for  the  captain 
and  not  merely  be  the  recipient  of  some  favor  from  him.  And  so,  as 
we  went  to  the  dining  room  that  evening,  President  Smith  had  in  his 
hand  one  of  his  favorite  copies  of  The  Improvement  Era.  It  was, 
of  course,  a  formal  affair  at  the  captain's  table;  the  ladies  and  the 
men  were  dressed  in  formal  attire.  It  took  a  man  of  the  courage  of 
President  Smith  to  do  what  he  did,  because  before  that  dinner  was 
over  he  had  gone  to  the  captain  of  that  ship  and  given  to  him  The 
Improvement  Era  and  paid  his  respects  to  him  and  his  guests. 

There  were  some  of  us  on  board  the  vessel  who  felt  that,  had 
the  captain  known  the  precious  soul  that  his  ship  bore,  he  would 
have  done  him  the  honor  of  having  called  upon  him  and  would  have 
had  his  table  graced  by  the  presence  of  one  of  God's  anointed.  The 
fact  that  he  didn't  did  not  prevent  President  Smith  from  proceeding 
to  give  to  that  captain  the  missionary  message  which  The  Improve- 
ment Era  contained. 

God  bless  the  memory  of  these  brethren,  and  may  that  same 
spirit  continue  to  be  with  the  Twelve  and  with  all  of  the  General 
Authorities.  May  it  continue  to  reach  out  as  it  does  into  the  stakes 
and  into  the  wards  of  this  Church,  that  we  may  in  very  deed  be  a 
people  known  the  world  over  for  the  love  and  the  affection  and  the 
loyalty  we  have  for  one  another,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I'll  try  three  sermons  in  three  minutes.  First,  a  tithing  is  not 
a  fiftieth  or  a  thirtieth  or  a  twentieth;  a  tithing  is  a  tenth. 

Second,  the  inflated  dollar  is  worth  a  hundred  cents  for  one 
purpose:  paying  debts. 

Third,  I  knew  a  missionary  once  who  had  marvelous  success 
in  the  mission  field.  I  asked  him  something  about  his  method. 
Among  other  things  he  told  me  that  whenever  he  went  to  talk  to 
people,  however  much  they  tried  to  get  him  to  digress  from  his  main 
theme — talk  about  politics,  talk  about  the  weather,  current  affairs, 
the  crops — he  said,  "I  always  politely  told  the  people  that  I  was 
sent  out  to  talk  the  gospel  to  them.  I  never  had  time  for  anything 
else." 

Talent  for  Friendship 
We've  been  talking  about  a  man  during  this  conference  who 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


129 


had  a  remarkable  gift  and  talent  for  friendship.  I've  been  with  him 
on  many  occasions  when  he  met  some  old  friends  or  business  ac- 
quaintances. He  always  had  the  courage  to  say,  in  substance, 
"John,  how's  your  faith?  How  are  you  feeling  about  the  Church?" 
And  I've  seen  many  a  man  blush  a  little,  stammer  a  little,  and  yet 
be  willing  to  talk  with  him  about  his  faith  and  about  the  Church. 

There  was  probably  never  a  time,  my  brethren,  when  we  so 
much  needed  men  who  could  go  out  and  cultivate  a  talent  for  friend- 
ship and  talk  frankly  to  their  own  associates  in  the  priesthood  who 
have  become  careless  and  delinquent,  to  their  business  friends  and 
to  their  neighbors,  about  the  gospel  and  give  to  them  the  great  bless- 
ing which  we  ourselves  enjoy.  May  we  make  note  of  the  oppor- 
tunities that  lie  ahead  of  us,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.-  Amen. 

ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  1  trust  I  may  have  the  benefit  of  your 
faith  and  prayers  during  the  few  minutes  I  shall  stand  before  you. 
First  of  all,  I  want  to  express  my  gratitude  for  the  strength,  the  com- 
fort, the  consolation,  and  the  increased  confidence  which  have  come 
to  the  members  of  the  Church  in  the  passing  of  President  George 
Albert  Smith.  I  think,  in  one  way  or  another,  he  must  have  touched 
all  of  us  more  or  less  closely  during  his  entire  ministry. 

Sermons  of  President  Smith 

I  remember  as  a  boy  in  my  teens  I  heard  President  Smith  for 
the  first  time  deliver  a  sermon  in  the  Logan  Tabernacle.  The  theme 
of  his  discourse  was  "Observance  of  the  Sabbath  Day."  It  was  a 
timely  message  because  at  that  time,  in  Logan,  particularly,  there 
was  some  controversy  as  to  what  extent  Sunday  amusements  should 
be  commercialized  and  carried  on.  President  Smith's  sermon  was 
powerful.  He  said,  among  other  things,  "Sabbath  observance  is 
one  of  the  great  pillars  of  civilization."  I  have  thought  of  it  many 
times,  and  I  am  sure  as  I  have  reflected  upon  it  that  President  Smith 
was  right  in  his  conclusions. 

Years  later  I  heard  him  discuss  before  an  audience  in  the  same 
place  the  Ten  Commandments.  As  he  often  did,  he  referred  to  each 
one  of  these  Commandments,  and  after  he  had  made  his  comments, 
he  turned  to  the  audience  and  said,  "You  may  break  these  com- 
mandments if  you  want  to,  but  if  you  do,  they  will  break  you." 
I  have  never  forgotten  those  words. 

And  so,  President  Smith  has  brought  a  vital  message  into  the 
lives  of  each  of  us.  When  I  was  first  called  to  the  position  in  the 
Church  which  I  now  hold,  one  of  the  first  assignments  given  me 
was  to  the  St.  Johns  and  the  Snowflake  stakes  in  Arizona.   To  my 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

surprise  and  to  my  delight,  President  George  Albert  Smith  was  to 
be  my  companion.  We  journeyed  together  to  St.  Johns,  where  the 
conference  was  held.  During  the  afternoon  session,  a  telegram 
came  to  President  Smith,  who  was  at  my  side.  He  opened  it  and 
read  it,  folded  it  up,  put  it  in  his  pocket,  and  when  the  session  was 
ended,  he  came  to  me  and  said,  "I  have  been  called  back  to  Salt 
Lake  City.  It  will  be  necessary  for  you  to  fill  the  appoint- 
ments which  I  have  made."  He  thereupon  handed  me  a  little  sheet 
of  paper,  and  on  it  was  a  schedule  of  meetings  which  he  had  ar- 
ranged in  the  little  villages  and  settlements  around  St.  Johns  and 
Snowflake.  I  mention  this  fact  only  because  it  illustrates  the  zeal, 
the  energy,  and  the  diligence  with  which  President  Smith  assumed 
his  responsibilities  in  the  ministry. 

"Give  the  Lord  a  Chance" 

When  I  left  for  Europe  to  take  on  a  great  responsibility,  one 
I  felt  that  was  altogether  too  great  for  me  to  assume,  President  Smith 
called  me  to  his  office.  He  gave  me  only  a  very  brief  admonition, 
and  I  suspect  he  has  given  it  to  many.  Said  he,  "Remember,  Brother 
Sonne,  give  the  Lord  a  chance."  I  believe  that  admonition  remained 
with  me  throughout  my  mission  over  in  Europe.  I'm  not  sure  that 
I  needed  it  so  much,  for  I  was  very  humble  and  prayerful  in  the  work 
I  had  to  do,  but  the  advice  was  so  good  and  so  sound,  that  I  never 
forgot  it.  .And  I  feel  what  success  came  from  our  endeavors  over 
in  Europe  during  a  crucial  time  was  due  in  large  measure  to  the  help 
which  we  received  from  our  Heavenly  Father. 

And  so  I  hope  and  pray  that  the  members  of  the  Church  and 
particularly  those  who  bear  the  Holy  Priesthood,  will  put  forth  the 
same  effort  which  our  great  leader  has  demonstrated  in  his  life. 

Devotion  of  Latter-day  Saints 

I  recall  at  this  moment  a  testimony  which  I  heard  from  a  young 
missionary  in  the  French  Mission.  He  had  but  recently  arrived 
in  the  field.  As  he  stood  up,  he  said  something  like  this:  "My 
grandparents  joined  the  Church  in  Southampton,  England.  S00n 
after  being  baptized,  they  emigrated  to  Nauvoo,  Illinois.  They 
bought  a  home  and  expected  to  live  there  indefinitely.  But,"  said 
the  missionary,  "a  mob  burned  the  home,  and  they  were  left  prac- 
tically destitute.  Then  my  grandparents  loaded  all  of  their  earthly 
possessions  on  a  handcart  and  pushed  it  over  the  plains  to  the  Rocky 
Mountains.  I  thank  God,"  said  this  young  man,  "for  the  faith  and 
the  integrity,  the  determination  and  the  conviction,  which  prompted 
my  grandparents  to  be  thus  faithful  to  their  trust."  Such  devotion 
has  been  characteristic  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  their  leaders 
from  the  beginning. 

I  rejoice,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  my  testimony  of  the  truth.  I 
know  God  has  spoken  from  the  heavens  and  established  his  Church 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


131 


upon  the  earth.  We  have  received  a  great  shock  during  the  past 
few  days;  we'll  receive  other  shocks,  in  all  probability,  but  I  tell  you 
this  Church  will  never  receive  a  setback.  It  will  go  forward  in  the 
future  as  it  has  in  the  past,  and  truth  and  righteousness  will  triumph 
in  the  earth.  I  pray  that  it  may  be  so,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  as  I  add  my  testimony  to  those  which  have  been  borne  to 
us  during  this  conference.  I  can  in  all  propriety  say  that  I  conform 
fully  to  all  the  tributes  that  have  been  paid  to  our  late  President. 
There  are  many  of  you  who  knew  him  better  than  I  did  and  more 
intimately,  but  I  did  know  him  and  his  sterling  qualities.  I  have 
been  on  trips  with  him  in  the  reorganization  of  stakes  and  have  met 
him  on  many  other  occasions  rather  closely  and  have  felt  his  love. 

I  knew  his  father,  as  a  matter  of  fact  I  slept  on  the  sands  of 
Mexico  with  his  father  and  prepared  his  breakfast  and  dinner  for 
him  along  with  my  uncle,  President  Grant,  who  recently  passed 
away.  I  got  out  of  my  bed  many  times  for  those  brethren  and  have 
had  more  or  less  intimate  association  with  them.  I  want  to  bear 
testimony  to  the  fact  that  in  my  experience,  their  purpose  and  mo- 
tive has  always  been  inspired  of  God.  I  am  glad  that  I  was  born  in 
the  Church  because  I  don't  know  what  might  have  happened  to  me 
had  I  not  been.  I  am  glad  for  the  testimony  which  my  father  in- 
spired in  me  as  to  the  truth  of  the  gospel  and  for  the  example  of 
service  which  he  gave  to  me. 

Power  in  Gospel 

In  the  month  of  June  it  will  be  twenty  years  since  I  read  in 
the  newspapers  in  Honolulu  that  I  was  appointed  to  preside  over 
the  Mexican  Mission  and  to  become  one  of  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy.  And  in  that  twenty  years  I  believe  it  has  become  no  easier 
for  me  to  stand  here  and  bear  my  testimony,  not  that  I  don't  have 
a  testimony,  but  because  I  realize  the  importance  of  bearing  that 
testimony  to  you  brethren,  and  that  it  will  fall  flat  unless  I  can  gain 
the  Spirit  of  God  in  it.  There  is,  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  a 
power  that  you  can't  realize  any  other  place.  It  breaks  down  all 
the  barriers  of  nationality,  of  race  hatreds,  and  all  the  enmities  that 
go  between  peoples  because  of  their  selfishness,  once  we  accept 
it  into  our  lives  and  apply  it.  It  is  that  love  whidh  was  exemplified 
in  the  life  of  our  President  which  makes  it  possible  for  us  to  receive 
unto  us  the  various  nations  of  the  world  and  forget  the  differences 
of  nationality.    I  have  had  the  experience  in  my  life  (I  was  going 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  8  Second  Dag 

to  say  my  short  life,  but  it's  three  score  and  ten  next  month),  of 
laboring  with  the  Mexicans,  and  the  Maoris;  the  Hawaiians  and  the 
Filipinos;  the  Chinese,  the  Japanese,  and  the  Koreans;  the  Portu- 
guese and  the  Spanish,  as  well  as  with  some  of  the  other  peoples, 
and  I  have  seen  them  come  together  and  affiliate  in  a  brotherhood 
that  you  can't  realize  out  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Because  of  its  wonderful  effect  upon  people,  because  of  its 
essentiality  to  their  exaltation,  we  have  a  tremendous  obligation 
to  carry  that  message  to  the  world. 

Especial  Responsibility  of  Seventies 

I  stand  before  you  as  a  representative  of  the  group  in  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood  which  has  that  especial  responsibility. 
Right  now,  because  of  the  national  emergency  that  we  are  facing, 
the  flow  of  young  men  into  the  mission  field  has  been  very,  very 
greatly  reduced.  And  as  I  think  of  it,  quite  naturally,  I  think  of 
an  army  of  twenty  thousand  seventies,  every  one  of  whom  is 
pledged  to  the  service  of  his  God  and  of  his  fellow  men,  and  I  wonder 
if  we  can  get  from  that  group  of  men  now  the  recruits  that  we  shall 
need  to  carry  on  this  missionary  work.  It  is  true  that  there  are  many 
men  in  the  field  at  the  present  time,  but  they  are  coming  home 
rapidly,  and  their  replacements  are  not  going  out.  You  brethren  of 
the  seventies,  think  of  it,  and  if  you  can  arrange  your  affairs  so  as 
to  do  it,  tell  your  bishops  that  you  are  ready,  that  you  would  like  to 
go.  Now,  if  you  love  your  fellows  in  the  spirit  in  which  we  have 
been  talking  during  this  conference,  you'll  make  an  effort  to  do  that 
very  thing,  for  that  is  your  calling  as  long  as  you  are  in  the  seventies 
quorum  in  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  to  bear  testimony  to  the 
restoration  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and  to  carry  that  testimony 
to  people  who  haven't  yet  heard  it. 

Testimony 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  the  gospel  is  true.  I 
feel  without  the  shadow  of  a  doubt  the  reality  of  God  our  Heavenly 
Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  departing  point  between  us  and 
other  Christian  denominations.  They  must  be  taught  the  personality 
of  God,  the  authority  and  the  restoration  of  the  priesthood,  and 
there  is  nobody  else  to  do  it.  Now,  you  seventies,  will  you  come 
and  help  us;  I  pray  that  God  will  give  you  the  spirit  and  open  up  the 
way  for  you  to  do  it,  which  I  do  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CORNELIUS  ZAPPEY 

Former  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 

Six  months  ago,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  was  standing  in  the 
aisle,  behind  the  rope  held  by  the  usher,  wishing,  as  many  of  us  have 
done,  that  all  Stake  Presidents  and  Bishops  would  not  be  on  time. 


ELDER  CORNELIUS  ZAPPEY 


133 


Standing  in  the  end  of  the  row  two  sisters  behind  me  were  speaking 
the  Scandinavian  language.  It  did  not  take  long  before  they  were 
in  front  of  me,  and  in  some  way,  soon  they  were  at  the  very  front, 
but  while  they  were  yet  in  front  of  me  speaking  their  native  tongue, 
a  brother  in  front  of  them  turned  around  and  asked:  "Swensk?"  and 
the  sisters  said  "Ja,  Ja."  This  brother,  putting  his  hand  upon  his 
chest  said,  "Norsk."  It  did  not  take  long  until  the  sisters  were  in 
front  of  this  brother  also.  (Laughter)  I  never  before  understood 
better  and  more  fully  the  statement  that  "The  race  is  not  to  the  swift 
but  to  the  one  that  endureth  to  the  end"  than  I  did  at  that  time. 

But  while  the  sisters  were  working  their  way  to  the  front,  right  up 
to  the  usher  holding  the  rope,  lo  and  behold  I  recognized  in  the 
brother  assisting  the  usher  a  German  brother  and  when  the  rope 
was  taken  down  and  I  with  the  rest  had  captured  one  of  those  coveted 
places  I  discovered  in  front  of  me  an  English  brother.  Then  when 
all  the  congregation  arose  in  honor  of  the  Prophet  of  the  Living  God 
appearing  on  the  stand  I  could  not  help  but  notice  President  Clark 
also,  who,  as  I  remembered  at  that  time,  came  from  English  parentage, 
and  there  came  President  David  O.  McKay  who  has  said  to  me  so 
often,  "Son,  do  not  be  ashamed  of  being  born  in  Holland,  my  parents 
were  born  in  Scotland  and  England."  I  also  saw  Elder  Petersen 
come  and  Elder  Widtsoe  who  was  born  in  Norway.  Then  as  I 
sat  down  I  realized  more  than  ever  before  that  I  was  but  a  Holland 
boy  who  came  to  Zion  and  became  an  adopted  son  of  this  country 
over  forty  years  ago,  when  I  was  but  a  youth  of  about  17  years  of 
age. 

Brothers  and  sisters  then  and  there  it  was  as  if  I  heard  Micah 
say  as  Isaiah  had  said  before  him: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of 
the  Lord's  house  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and 
shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

And  many  people  shall  go  and  say.  Come  ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to 
the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of  the  God  of  Jacob." 

They  would  not  come  because  they  would  not  know  the  Lord, 
the  God  of  Jacob  for  Isaiah  and  Micah  said  they  would  declare: 
"And  he  will  teach  us  of  his  ways." 

When  I  read  the  sermon  by  President  Clark,  in  the  Deseret 
News — I  suppose  we  all  take  it — when  I  read  it  in  the  Deseret 
News  at  the  headquarters  of  the  Mission,  telling  of  "The  Last 
Wagon,"  I  cried  like  a  baby.  Now,  every  day,  "last  wagons"  are 
pulling  in,  and  why  is  it  that  when  the  emigrants  come  in  at  the 
stations  or  by  bus  line,  why  is  it  that  the  first  thing  they  ask  is, 
"Where  is  the  temple?"  In  the  last  days,  brothers  and  sisters,  the 
House  of  the  Lord  is  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains,  and 
many  are  flowing  unto  it,  "and  many  people  shall  go  and  say,  Come 
ye,  and  let  us  go  up  to  the  mountain  of  the  Lord,  to  the  house  of 
the  God  of  Jacob." 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  8  Second  Day 

May  I  in  conclusion  ask  this  of  the  mothers  and  fathers  of  Zion: 
Will  you  teach  your  boys  and  girls,  your  young  ones  and  your 
old  ones  too — will  you  teach  them  all,  that  God  really  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  really  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God;  that  it  is  not  only  a 
beautiful  story  but  that  He  really  arose  the  third  day;  and  that  all 
those  who  lead  us  have  the  Priesthood  of  God,  yes  even  the  keys 
thereof.  Oh,  teach  them  these  things.  And  may  I  ask  this,  as  one 
born  of  an  infidel  father  but  of  a  faithful  mother:  teach  them  by 
day  and  by  night  the  revelation,  the  greatest  one  to  me:  That  God 
really  appeared  and  His  Son,  the  Redeemer,  to  Joseph  the  Prophet 
and  although  the  world,  kings  and  potentates  might  not  send 
bejeweled  gifts  to  our  leaders  to  curry  their  favor,  they  are  and 
always  shall  be  living  servants  of  God.  I  testify  of  it  in  the  name 
of  Christ,  the  Redeemer,  the  Son  of  God.  Amen. 

Elder  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Cornelius  Zappey,  former  Pres- 
ident of  the  Netherlands  Mission. 

The  closing  song,  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  will  be  "Inflam- 
matus."  The  solo  will  be  sung  by  Sister  Ewan  Harbrecht. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  President  Lester  H. 
Belliston  of  the  Juab  Stake,  Utah,  after  which  this  conference  will 
stand  adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning  when  we  will 
meet  in  this  building  in  Solemn  Assembly. 

The  Deseret  News  this  morning — I  hope  you  all  take  it — de- 
scribes the  way  in  which  the  seating  will  be  carried  on  tomorrow 
morning.  The  body  of  the  hall  will  be  reserved  for  the  priesthood — 
the  patriarchs  here  (pointing  to  the  south  of  the  stand),  the  seven- 
ties on  the  main  floor  under  the  north  gallery,  the  elders  under  the 
gallery  in  the  south  part  of  the  building,  the  high  priests  here  (point- 
ing to  the  center  part  of  the  hall),  the  bishops  near  the  back  and 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  at  the  rear.  The  wives  of  the  Authorities  are 
sitting  over  here  on  the  stand  at  Brother  Clark's  left.  The  balance 
of  the  meeting  house  will  be  for  the  other  membership  of  the  Church. 

The  singing  for  the  service  will  be  by  the  congregation. 

The  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  Conference  will  convene 
in  this  building  at  seven  o'clock  tonight.  All  Sunday  School  workers 
will  wish  to  be  in  attendance. 

The  choir  music  for  today's  sessions  of  the  conference  has  been 
furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ  for  the  morning 
session  and  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ  for  the  after- 
noon session. 

Again  we  wish  to  express  to  the  Tabernacle  Choir  our  grateful 
appreciation  for  the  music  they  have  given  us  today.  But  more  than 
that,  we  wish  to  give  them  our  grateful  appreciation  and  our  thanks 
for  the  great  service  which  they  are  doing  as  a  missionary  unit  in 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


135 


the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The  service  which 
they  render  is  beyond  all  power  of  calculation. 
The  Choir  will  now  sing. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Inflammatus,"  solo  by  Sister  Ewan 
Harbrecht. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  President  Lester  H.  Belliston 
of  the  Juab  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday,  April  9,  at  10:00  a.m. 

CONCLUDING  SESSION  SOLEMN  ASSEMBLY 

The  final  session  of  the  great  Conference  convened  in  the 
Tabernacle  at  10:00  a.m.,  Monday,  April  9,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the  services. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

This  is  the  sixth  session  of  the  One  Hundred  Twenty-first  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
We  are  convened  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  in  a  formal  Solemn  Assembly  of  the  body  of  the  Church,  to 
express  the  voice  of  the  Church  in  a  sustaining  vote  for  a  new  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church. 

These  services  will  be  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  in 
Barratt  Hall  over  a  loud  speaking  system  and  by  television. 

The  proceedings  of  this  session  will  be  broadcast  over  Station 
KSL  at  Salt  Lake  City  and,  presumably  by  arrangement  through 
KSL,  over  the  stations  named  in  the  first  session  of  this  conference. 

This  session  will  also  be  televised  over  the  KSL  television  sta- 
tion, channel  5. 

The  singing  will  be  by  the  congregation. 

We  will  open  by  singing  the  hymn,  "O,  Ye  Mountains  High." 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  will  lead  us.  Immediately  following  the 
singing  the  invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "O,  Ye  Mountains  High." 
The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen. 

President  David  O.  McKay 

Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  the  leader  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
will  now  lead  the  congregation  in  singing,  "Praise  To  The  Man 
Who  Communed  With  Jehovah."  If  the  students  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University  are  in  session  in  the  Joseph  Smith  Memorial 
Building,  we  shall  be  pleased  to  have  them  join  in  singing,  and 
we  shall  be  pleased  to  have  any  other  group  of  individuals  listening 
in  also  participate  in  the  exercises. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "Praise  To  the  Man." 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Day 

President  David  O.  McKay 

We  shall  now  ask  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  to  conduct 
the  exercises  pertaining  to  the  reorganization  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  sustaining  vote  of  all  the  other  General  Authorities 
and  General  Officers  of  the  Church. 


ELDER  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

This,  brothers  and  sisters,  is  a  very  solemn  occasion.  We  so 
approach  it  and  should  so  conduct  it.  It  will  take  quite  a  time,  but 
if  we  are  in  the  frame  of  mind  and  spirit  which  we  should  be  in, 
I  am  sure  it  will  not  be  tedious. 

We  shall  follow  the  exact  proceedings  that  were  followed  in 
connection  with  the  installation  of  President  George  Albert  Smith. 
The  same  script  will  be  used  except  for  the  necessary  changes  in 
names. 

We  are  met  in  the  tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City, 
in  a  formal  Solemn  Assembly  of  the  body  of  the  Church  to  express 
the  voice  of  the  Church  in  a  first  sustaining  vote  for  a  new  President 
of  the  Church.  This  proceeding  is  in  accordance  with  the  practice 
of  the  Church  from  the  first  sustaining  vote  cast  by  a  General  Con- 
ference for  President  Taylor,  until  the  present  time. 

The  Priesthood  of  the  Church,  in  so  far  as  the  building  can  ac- 
commodate them,  is  seated  in  the  Tabernacle  by  Priesthood  quorums. 

The  First  Presidency  and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  with  their 
Assistants,  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  the  Presidents  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy,  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric  occupy  their  usual 
seats  on  the  Tabernacle  stand. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  occupy  the  seats  to  the  south  of 
the  stand,  both  lower  seats  within  the  railing  and  those  on  the  stand 
level. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church,  including  Presidents  of  Stakes 
and  their  Counselors,  the  High  Councilmen,  the  Presidencies  of 
quorums,  the  quorum  members,  the  ward  bishoprics,  occupy  the  cen- 
ter of  the  building  on  the  main  floor,  as  far  to  the  eastward  as  the 
galleries.  The  ward  bishoprics  are  seated  just  in  front  of  the  east 
gallery. 

The  Seventies  occupy  the  north  part  of  the  building  on  the  main 
floor  under  the  north  gallery,  including  the  seats  inside  the  railing 
to  the  north  of  the  stand. 

The  Elders  occupy  the  south  part  of  the  building  on  the  main 
floor  under  the  galleries. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  ( Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons)  occupy 
the  seats  on  the  main  floor,  just  back  of  the  bishoprics,  under  the 
gallery  on  the  east. 

The  general  membership  of  the  Church  occupy  the  rest  of  the 
building. 


ELDER  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


137 


The  voting  will  be  by  Priesthood  quorums  first,  and  then  by 
the  Conference  assembly. 

The  quorums  and  groups  of  quorums  will  vote  in  the  following 
order: 

1.  The  First  Presidency. 

2.  The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 

3.  The  Patriarchs. 

4.  The  High  Priests,  including  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve, 
the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counselors,  the  High 
Councilmen,  Presidencies  of  quorums,  quorum  members, 
the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  Ward  Bishoprics. 

5.  The  Seventies. 

6.  The  Elders. 

7.  The  Lesser  Priesthood  (Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons). 

8.  The  whole  congregation  here  assembled,  including  the 
Priesthood. 

The  voting  will  be  in  the  following  manner: 

As  each  quorum  or  group  is  called,  they  will  be  asked  to  vote 
to  sustain  the  officer  proposed:  Those  voting  will  when  called  upon, 
arise  to  their  feet.  When  the  affirmative  vote  is  called  for,  those  so 
voting  will  bring  their  right  arms  to  the  square  to  witness  to  the  Lord 
that  they  sustain  the  officer  for  whom  they  are  voting.  They  will 
then  drop  their  hands.  Then  those  opposing  will  be  asked  to  bring 
their  right  hands  to  the  square  to  bear  witness  to  the  Lord  that  they 
are  not  willing  to  sustain  the  officer  whom  they  are  called  upon  to 
sustain. 

When  both  affirmative  and  negative  votes  are  cast,  the  mem- 
bers of  the  quorum  will  resume  their  seats. 

All  of  the  quorums  will  vote  in  this  manner. 

Every  one  is  perfectly  free  to  vote  as  he  wishes.  There  is  no 
compulsion  whatsoever  in  this  voting.  When  you  vote  affirmatively 
you  make  a  solemn  covenant  with  the  Lord  that  you  will  sustain, 
that  is,  give  your  full  loyalty  and  support,  without  equivocation  or 
reservation,  to  the  officer  for  whom  you  vote. 

After  all  the  quorums  have  so  voted,  a  vote  will  be  called  of  the 
whole  congregation,  those  bearing  the  priesthood  and  those  not 
bearing  it.  All  will  arise.  Those  voting  to  sustain  will  raise  their 
right  hands  to  the  square,  to  witness  that  they  sustain  the  officers 
for  whom  they  vote.  After  they  lower  their  hands  the  opposing  vote 
will  be  called  for  and  will  be  manifested  by  raising  the  right  hand  to 
the  square. 

The  Officers  so  to  be  voted  for  by  quorums  are  the  following: 
The  President  of  the  Church. 

The  First  Counselor  to  the  President  of  the  Church. 
The  Second  Counselor  to  the  President  of  the  Church. 
The  President  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve. 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Day 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
The  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 

The  Sustaining  of  the  Counselors  in  the  Presidency,  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve,  and  the  Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and 
Revelators  to  the  Church. 

After  the  vote  by  quorums  to  sustain  these  officers,  the  rest  of 
the  General  Authorities,  the  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  and  the 
General  Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  will  be  sustained  by  voting 
as  in  the  ordinary  General  Conference.  This  is  in  accordance  with 
the  procedure  set  by  President  John  Taylor. 

Please  be  ready  to  begin  voting.  Only  Church  members  are 
entitled  to  vote. 

Only  one  quorum,  or  group  of  quorums,  as  the  case  may  be, 
will  stand  at  a  time  in  voting  by  quorums.  Each  quorum,  or  group 
of  quorums,  will  please  arise  when  requested  and  remain  standing 
until  requested  to  be  seated. 

May  the  Lord  guide  us  and  may  His  Spirit  attend  us  as  we 
go  forward  in  this  solemn  service,  established  by  the  Lord  so  that 
each  member  of  His  Church  may  have  a  voice  in  sustaining  those 
whom  He  has  called  to  preside  over  it  and  to  direct  its  work,  to  the 
salvation  and  exaltation  of  mankind. 

We  shall  first  vote  by  quorums  to  sustain  the  President  of  the 
Church  and  his  Counselors. 

VOTING  ON  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

The  First  Presidency  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  First  Presidency  will  please  be  seated. 
The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  139 


It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, the  High  Councilmen,  the  Presidencies  of  Quorums,  the  quorum 
members,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  Ward  Bishoprics,  will  please 
arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presidencies  of  other 
quorums  of  seventies,  and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  9  Third  Day 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Presi- 
dencies of  quorums  and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including 
the  Presidencies  of  Teachers  and  Deacons  quorums,  and  members  of 
Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons  quorums,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  141 


The  entire  congregation  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  all  the 
members  of  the  Church,  those  bearing  the  priesthood,  and  those  not 
bearing  it,  will  please  arise.  We  suggest  that  those  seated  in  the 
Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall,  likewise  arise  and  join  in  the  voting, 
and  likewise  all  those  listening  in  on  the  air. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Prophet, 
Seer,  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Stephen  L  Richards  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  as  Sec- 
ond Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Congregation  will  please  be  seated. 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  noted,  the  last  vote  and  all  the  other 
votes  preceding  it  were  unanimous. 

VOTING  ON  THE 
PRESIDENT  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 
AND  THE 

FULL  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

We  shall  next  vote  to  sustain  the  President  of  the  Quorum  of 
the  Twelve  and  then  to  sustain  all  the  members  of  the  Quorum. 
The  First  Presidency  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Tohn  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  First  Presidency  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 

oseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 

Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 

i.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 

ey. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, the  High  Councilmen,  the  Presidencies  of  quorums,  the  quorum 
members,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  Ward  Bishoprics,  will  please 
arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
oseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
3owen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
i.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  143 


The  Seventies  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Presidents  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presidencies  of  other 
quorums,  and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Presi- 
dencies of  quorums  and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
oseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
3owen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
i.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including 
the  Presidencies  of  Teachers  and  Deacons  quorums,  and  members  of 
Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons  quorums,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
Bowen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  Mark 
E.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 


144  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Day 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  entire  congregation  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  all  the 
members  of  the  Church,  those  bearing  the  priesthood,  and  those  not 
bearing  it,  will  please  arise.  Again  we  suggest  that  those  seated  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall  and  those  listening  in  on  the 
Air  arise,  and  join  in  this  voting. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  as  President 
of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints: 
oseph  Fielding  Smith,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Albert  E. 
3owen,  Harold  B.  Lee,  Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taf t  Benson,  Mark 
3.  Petersen,  Matthew  Cowley,  Henry  D.  Moyle,  Delbert  Leon  Stap- 
ley. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Congregation  will  please  be  seated. 

So  far  as  observed,  this  voting  was  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


VOTING  ON  THE  PATRIACH  TO  THE  CHURCH 

We  shall  next  vote  to  sustain  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church. 
The  First  Presidency  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  First  Presidency  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  arise: 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Patriarch  to  the  Church,  will  please  arise: 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  145 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counsel- 
ors, the  High  Councilmen,  the  Presidencies  of  quorums,  the  quorum 
members,  the  Presiding  Bishopric  and  Ward  Bishoprics  will  please 
arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Presi- 
dents of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presidencies  of  other  quo- 
rums and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Presi- 
dencies of  quorums  and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including 
the  Presidencies  of  Teachers  and  Deacons  quorums,  and  members  of 
Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons  quorums,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

  The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  entire  Congregation  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  all  the 
members  of  the  Church,  those  bearing  the  priesthood  and  those  not 
bearing  it,  will  please  arise.  Again  will  those  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
and  those  in  Barratt  Hall,  and  those  listening  in  on  the  air  arise  and 
join  in  the  voting. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  Eldred  G.  Smith  as  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Congregation  will  please  be  seated. 

This  vote  was  likewise  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Day 

VOTING  ON  PROPHETS,  SEERS,  AND  REVELATORS 

We  shall  next  vote  to  sustain  the  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revela- 
tors  to  the  Church. 

The  First  Presidency  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  First  Presidency  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Pa- 
triarch to  the  Church,  will  please  arise: 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Patriarchs  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the 
Assistants  to  the  Twelve,  the  Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Counsel- 
ors, the  High  Councilmen,  the  Presidencies  of  quorums,  the  quorum 
members,  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and  Ward  Bishoprics,  will  please 
arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  High  Priests  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Presi- 
dents of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  the  Presidencies  of  other  quo- 
rums and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Seventies  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  147 


The  Elders  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including  the  Presi- 
dencies of  quorums  and  quorum  members,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Elders  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  including 
the  Presidencies  of  Teachers  and  Deacons  quorums,  and  members  of 
Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons  quorums,  will  please  arise. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Lesser  Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  please  be  seated. 

The  entire  congregation  of  the  Church  here  assembled,  all  the 
members  of  the  Church,  those  bearing  the  priesthood,  and  those  not 
bearing  it,  will  please  arise.  Once  more  we  suggest  that  those  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  and  Barratt  Hall,  and  those  listening  in  on  the  air, 
also  arise  and  join  in  the  voting. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles,  and  the  Patriarch  to  the  Church,  as 
Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

The  Congregtion  will  please  be  seated. 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  observed,  the  voting  on  this  pro- 
posal was  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 

Following  the  procedure  used  by  President  John  Taylor  the 
voting  to  sustain  the  other  General  Authorities,  the  General  Officers 
of  the  Church,  not  heretofore  sustained,  and  the  heads  of  the  auxiliary 
organizations  will  be  in  the  form  followed  in  regular  General  Con- 
ferences. The  audience  will  remain  seated  while  voting;  all  the  mem- 
bers will  vote  at  the  same  time,  by  the  uplifted  hand.  We  suggest  that 
those  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall,  and  those  listening  in  on 
the  air,  also  join  in  this  voting. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve: 

Marion  G.  Romney  Clifford  E.  Young 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Alma  Sonne 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  David  Oman  McKay  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  9  Third  Day 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  ats  the  First  Council  of  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Richard  L.  Evans  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 
Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the 
Church : 

LeGrand  Richards  as  the  Presiding  Bishop,  with  Joseph  L. 
Wirthlin  as  his  First  Counselor,  and  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  as  his 
Second  Counselor. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  Church  Historian  and  Recorder, 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  the  Church  Board  of  Edueca- 

tion: 

David  Oman  McKay  Spencer  W.  Kimball 

Stephen  L  Richards  Ezra  Taft  Benson 

oshua  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Mark  E.  Petersen 

oseph  Fielding  Smith  Matthew  Cowley 

ohn  A.  Widtsoe  Henry  D.  Moyle 

oseph  F.  Merrill  Delbert  Leon  Stapley 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Harold  B.  Lee  Franklin  L.  West 

As  Commissioner  of  Education,  Franklin  L.  West,  and  as  Semin- 
ary Supervisors,  J.  Karl  Wood  and  Joy  F.  Dunyon. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  the  Church  Auditing  Com- 
mittee: 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  officers  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor;  as  Organists,  Alexander 
Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper,  and  Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant  Or- 
ganist. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 


SUSTAINING  OF  CHURCH  AUTHORITIES  149 


It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the  Church  Welfare  Committee 
as  follows: 

Advisers 

John  A.  Widtsoe  Clifford  E.  Young 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Alma  Sonne 

Harold  B.  Lee  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Matthew  Cowley  Oscar  A.  Kirkham 

Henry  D.  Moyle  LeGrand  Richards 

Marion  G.  Romney  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

and  The  General  Presidency  of  the  Relief  Society 

General  Committee 
Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.  Romney,  Assistant  Managing  Director 
with  the  following  as  members: 

Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

T.  C.  Stayner  John  Longden 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Andrew  Reed  Halverson 

William  T.  Lawrence  Henry  C.  Jorgensen 
Carl  W.  Buehner 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  as  the  heads  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations of  the  Church : 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  as  President  of  the  Relief  Society  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  with  Marianne  Clark 
Sharp  as  First  Counselor,  and  Velma  N.  Simonsen  as  Second  Coun- 
selor, with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted. 

George  R.  Hill,  as  General  Superintendent  of  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union,  with  A.  Hamer  Reiser  as  First  Assistant  Superinten- 
dent, and  David  Lawrence  McKay,  as  Second  Assistant  Superin- 
tendent, with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  as  General  Superintendent  of  the  Young  Men's 
Mutual  Improvement  Association,  with  A.  Walter  Stevenson  as 
First  Assistant  Superintendent  and  David  S.  King  as  Second  Assist- 
ant Superintendent,  with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at  present 
constituted. 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  as  President  of  the  Young  Women's  Mutual 
Improvement  Association  with  Emily  H.  Bennett  as  First  Counselor, 
and  LaRue  C.  Longden  as  Second  Counselor,  with  all  the  members 
of  the  board  as  at  present  constituted. 


150     l  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Day 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  as  President  of  the  Primary  Associa- 
tion, with  LaVern  W.  Parmley  as  First  Counselor,  and  Dessie  G. 
Boyle,  as  Second  Counselor,  with  all  the  members  of  the  board  as  at 
present  constituted. 

Those  in  favor  will  raise  their  right  hands;  those  opposed  will 
manifest  it  by  the  same  sign. 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  have  observed,  the  voting  in  each 
case  was  unanimous  in  the  affirmative. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Before  proceeding  further  with  the  exercises  of  this  session,  I 
am  prompted  to  say  a  word  in  answer  to  a  question  which  undoubted- 
ly is  in  every  one  of  your  minds.  Particularly  to  those  not  members 
of  the  Church,  and  to  members  of  the  Church  as  well,  may  I  call  at- 
tention to  the  policy  of  the  Church  with  regard  to  choosing  of  coun- 
selors. 

A  President  Names  His  Counselors 

When  a  President  is  chosen  and  sustained  (that  includes  the 
president  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  who  is  the  Bishop  of  a  Ward, 
also  Presidents  of  quorums  or  superintendents  or  presidents  of 
auxiliaries  it  is  the  practice  of  the  Church  to  let  the  president  name 
his  counselors. 

Anticipating  that  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  would  grant  to 
me  that  same  privilege,  I  thoughtfully  and  prayerfully  considered 
what  two  men  would  be  most  helpful  and  most  contributive  to  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  Church.  The  impression  came,  I  am  sure,  directly 
from  Him  whose  Church  this  is,  and  who  presides  over  it,  that 
the  two  counselors  whom  you  have  this  day  approved  should  be  the 
other  members  of  the  quorum  of  the  First  Presidency.  Both  are  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  though  counselors  might  have  been 
chosen  from  High  Priests  outside  that  presiding  body. 

I  chose  these  two  members  from  the  Council  of  the  Twelve — 
two  men  with  whom  I  have  labored  closely  for  many  years,  whose 
worth,  whose  ability  I  know.  I  have  been  associated  with  Elder 
Richards  directly  in  Church  affairs  and  in  presiding  positions  for  over 
thirty  years.  I  have  been  associated  with  President  Clark  in  two 
quorums  of  the  First  Presidency  for  over  sixteen  years.  With  these 
and  other  facts  in  mind,  the  question  arose  as  to  the  order  they  should 
occupy  in  this  new  quorum. 

Each  man  I  love.  Each  man  is  capable  in  his  particular  lines,  and 
particularly  with  respect  to  the  welfare  and  advancement  of  the  King- 
dom of  God. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


151 


Seniority  in  the  Council  of  Twelve 

I  realized  that  there  would  be  a  question  in  the  minds  of  some 
as  to  which  one  of  the  two  should  be  chosen  as  first  counselor.  That 
question  resolved  itself  in  my  mind  first  as  to  the  order  of  precedence, 
seniority  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  That  should  make 
no  difference  according  to  the  practice  of  the  Church,  because  mem- 
bers of  the  Council  had  heretofore  been  chosen  irrespective  of  the  po- 
sition a  member  occupied  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  And,  as  I 
have  already  said,  high  Priests  have  been  chosen  even  as  first  coun- 
selors who  were  not  members  of  the  Council. 

I  felt  that  one  guiding  principle  in  this  choice  would  be  to  follow 
the  seniority  in  the  Council.  These  two  men  were  sitting  in  their 
places  in  that  presiding  body  in  the  Church,  and  I  felt  impressed  that 
it  would  be  advisable  to  continue  that  same  seniority  in  the  new 
quorum  of  the  First  Presidency.  I  repeat,  not  as  an  established  policy, 
but  because  it  seemed  advisable  in  view  of  my  close  relationship  to 
these  two  choice  leaders. 

Two  Counselors  Coordinate 

Now  I  mention  this  because  we  do  not  want  any  member  in  this 
Church,  nor  any  man  or  woman  listening  in  to  harbor  the  thought  for 
a  moment  that  there  has  been  any  rift  between  the  two  counselors  who 
sustained  President  Smith  in  the  Quorum  of  the  First  Presidency,  and 
President  Grant  for  the  years  that  we  were  together  with  that  in- 
spired leader.  Neither  should  you  feel  that  there  is  any  demotion. 
President  Clark  is  a  wonderful  servant.  You  have  had  demonstrated 
here  this  morning  his  ability  in  carrying  out  details,  and  he  is  just  that 
efficient  in  everything  pertaining  to  the  work. 

You  should  understand  further,  that  in  the  counselorship  of  the 
Quorum  of  the  First  Presidency  these  two  men  are  coordinate  in 
authority,  in  love,  and  confidence,  in  freedom  to  make  suggestions, 
and  recommendations,  and  in  their  responsibility  not  only  to  the 
Quorum  but  also  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  to  the  people  generally. 

They  are  two  great  men.  I  love  them  both,  and  say  God  bless 
them,  and  give  you  the  assurance  that  there  will  be  harmony  and  love 
and  confidence  in  the  Quorum  of  the  First  Presidency  as  you  have 
sustained  them  today. 

The  congregation  arose  and  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel." 


152  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  9  Third  Day 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

We  have  just  witnessed,  and  taken  part  in  a  most  solemn, 
wonderful  manifestation  of  fellowship,  unity,  and  love. 

Pledge  of  Support 

First,  I  wish  to  say  before  this  vast  congregation  of  priesthood 
and  members  of  the  Church  that  I  pledge  myself  to  support  my 
brethren  of  the  First  Presidency.  They  have  my  full  support,  my 
love,  and  fellowship,  and  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may 
rest  upon  them  in  great  abundance  to  guide  them  and  direct  them  in 
all  things  pertaining  to  their  high  and  holy  callings. 

I  feel  humble  in  standing  here,  considering  myself  the  weakest 
of  my  brethren.  I  love  each  one  of  them:  the  First  Presidency,  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  the  other  brethren  whose  names  have 
been  presented  and  approved  here  this  day.  And  may  the  Lord  be 
with  us  to  help  each  one  of  us  to  magnify  his  calling. 

I  realize  the  position  I  have  been  called  to  fulfil  is  one  of  great 
importance.  It  makes  me  humble.  I  am  grateful  for  the  expressions 
that  I  have  received  from  my  brethren.  They  have  expressed  their 
confidence,  and  already  have  given  me  their  support. 

It  is  wonderful  to  see  a  great  body  such  as  we  have  here  today 
(composed  of  the  leading  brethren  of  the  Church  and  many  others 
who  have  not  been  called  to  presiding  capacity),  raising  their  hands 
enthusiastically,  feeling  in  their  hearts  to  give  their  support,  and 
they  do  give  their  support  with  all  their  hearts  to  the  brethren  who 
have  been  sustained. 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  my  member- 
ship in  the  Church,  for  the  opportunity  which  has  come  to  me  to  give 
service.  I  have  only  one  desire,  weak  as  I  am,  and  that  is  to  magnify 
to  the  best  of  my  ability  the  calling  which  is  mine. 

Faith  and  Prayers  Needed 

I  need  the  faith  and  the  prayers  of  the  members  of  the  Church. 
These  brethren  of  the  Presidency  need  them,  too.  We  should 
support  them,  uphold  them,  sustain  them  by  our  faith  and  by  our 
prayers,  that  they  may  feel  the  influence  that  radiates  from  this 
great  body  of  priesthood  and  from  the  membership  of  the  Church. 

There  is  an  influence  that  radiates  forth.  In  fact,  every  individ- 
ual radiates  some  influence.  Our  influence  should  be  for  good,  for 
the  building  up  of  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  should  have  no  other 
purpose,  only  to  bring  to  pass  this  great  work  and  see  it  established 
in  the  earth  as  the  Lord  would  have  it. 

Establishment  of  Zion 
In  the  early  days  of  the  Church  the  brethren  came  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  asking  what  the  Lord  would  have  them  do. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


153 


The  answer  given  to  them  was  "to  bring  forth  the  cause  of  Zion." 
That  is  our  work,  to  establish  Zion,  to  build  up  the  kingdom  of  God, 
to  preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature  in  the  world,  that  not  one 
soul  may  be  overlooked  where  there  is  the  possibility  for  us  to 
present  unto  him  the  truth. 

As  we  have  heard  during  this  conference,  we  are  all  going  to 
be  judged  according  to  our  works,  every  soul.  I  have  often  thought 
of  my  place  and  responsibility  in  this  Church.  What  a  dreadful 
thing  it  would  be  to  be  going  forth  to  teach,  to  lead  men,  to  guide 
them  into  something  that  wasn't  true.  I  think  the  greatest  crime  in 
all  this  world  is  to  lead  men  and  women,  the  children  of  God,  away 
from  the  true  principles.  We  see  in  the  world  today  philosophies  of 
various  kinds,  tending  to  destroy  faith,  faith  in  God,  faith  in  the 
principles  of  the  gospel.  What  a  dreadful  thing  that  is. 

The  Lord  says  if  we  labor  all  our  days  and  save  but  one  soul, 
how  great  will  be  our  joy  with  him;  on  the  other  hand  how  great 
will  be  our  sorrow  and  our  condemnation  if  through  our  acts  we 
have  led  one  soul  away  from  this  truth. 

Testimony 

Again  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you.  I  know  that  God  lives.  I 
know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  the  Only  Begotten  Son  in  the  flesh  of  our 
Father,  the  great  Elohim  whom  we  worship.  I  have  perfect  faith 
in  the  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  those  who  have 
succeeded  him. 

I  know  that  we  have  the  truth  of  the  everlasting  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  just  as  well  as  I  know  that  I  stand  here  before  you. 
If  I  did  not  know  it,  I  wouldn't  want  to  be  here  or  have  anything  to 
do  with  this  work.  But  I  know  it  in  every  fibre  of  my  body.  God 
has  revealed  it  to  me.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  all  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  begin  by  bearing  again  my  testimony 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet, 
that  those  who  have  followed  afterward  have  been  his  prophets, 
and  that  the  one  whom  we  have  sustained  is  the  ninth  in  regular 
succession,  as  a  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  to  this  Church  and  to 
the  world. 

I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
I  know  that  he  is  the  first  fruits  of  the  resurrection,  and  that  by  and 
through  him  we  are  redeemed  from  the  Fall,  and  thus  able  to  over- 
come the  results  of  the  Fall  and  get  back  into  the  presence  of  our 
Heavenly  Father. 


154  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Day 

I  thank  President  McKay  for  his  kindly  words  about  myself. 
I  thank  you  for  your  sustaining  votes,  and  I  earnestly  pray  that  I 
may  be  the  beneficiary  of  your  prayers  as  time  shall  go  on,  and  that 
I  may  be  able  to  do  the  things  which  I  am  supposed  to  do  with  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Pledge  of  Devoted  Service 

In  the  service  of  the  Lord,  it  is  not  where  you  serve  but  how. 
In  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  one  takes  the 
place  to  which  one  is  duly  called,  which  place  one  neither  seeks  nor 
declines.  I  pledge  to  President  McKay  and  to  President  Richards 
the  full  loyal  devoted  service  to  the  tasks  that  may  come  to  me  to 
the  full  measure  of  my  strength  and  my  abilities,  and  so  far  as  they 
will  enable  me  to  perform  them,  however  inadequate  I  may  be. 

May  the  Lord  help  me  so  to  serve,  to  serve  President  McKay 
and  President  Richards  and  to  serve  the  Lord,  all  for  the  advance- 
ment of  his  work.  This  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  call  upon  the  Lord  to  come  to  my  rescue  in  this,  the  most  try- 
ing hour  of  my  life.  It  reaches  beyond  my  understanding  to  know 
why  I  have  been  privileged  in  the  providence  of  God  to  stand  before 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church,  in  the  capacity  in  which 
I  have  this  day  been  presented  to  you. 

Friendship  of  Great  Man 

For  more  than  forty-five  years  I  have  had  a  great  man  as  a 
friend.  I  don't  know  how  I  have  deserved  his  friendship  as  he  has 
given  it  to  me.  His  friendship  has  been  one  of  the  main  factors  of 
encouragement  in  my  life.  My  association  with  him  has  brought 
more  richness  into  my  life  and  my  experience  than  any  other  as- 
sociation outside  that  of  my  own  flesh  and  blood. 

This  great  man  has  stimulated  me  in  times  of  discouragement 
to  go  forward  and  give  the  best  I  could  to  this  work.  I  shall  never 
live  long  enough  to  pay  the  debt  of  gratitude  I  owe  my  friend.  I 
respond  to  his  call  with  the  deepest  humility,  with  a  great  sense  of 
inadequacy,  but  with  an  obligation  to  give  to  him  my  best. 

Devotion  of  Willard  Richards 

One  of  the  few  ways  in  which  I  can  account  for  this  which  has 
transpired  lies  in  another  friendship.  My  grandfather,  Willard 
Richards,  was  an  intimate  and  close  friend  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  I  am  honored  to  learn  and  to  know  that  the  Prophet  prized 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS  155 


his  friendship,  and  is  said  to  have  remarked  on  one  occasion  that  no 
one  could  ever  have  a  finer  friend  than  was  Willard  Richards. 

You  recall  that  at  one  time  he  was  discouraged  by  his  superiors 
to  follow  the  Prophet  to  Carthage  Jail.  He  replied  by  an  offer  of  his 
life  for  the  Prophet,  if  he  would  accept  it,  and  he  went  with  the 
Prophet  and  his  brother,  witnessed  their  assassination,  and  then 
with  his  great  love  and  heavy  heart  took  their  bodies  back  to  the 
people  of  Nauvoo,  assuaged  their  excitement,  and  gave  them  counsel 
to  be  calm. 

I  have  often  felt  that  the  only  reason  for  my  being  in  the  pre- 
siding councils  of  the  Church  is  in  the  devotion  of  Willard  Richards 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  believe  there  are  councils  on  the  other 
side.  We  have  had  testimonies  of  them,  and  while  I  cannot  under- 
stand I  can  believe  that  the  Prophet,  out  of  consideration  for  his 
friend,  has  had  a  voice  in  bringing  me  into  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  through  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  and  also  in  that  which 
has  brought  me  to  this  position.  I  would  like  to  be  as  true  a  friend 
to  President  David  O.  McKay  as  my  grandfather  was  to  the 
Prophet,  and  in  some  measure  show  to  him  my  appreciation  of  his 
marvelous  kindness  to  me. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark 

I  have  had  the  pleasure  of  long  acquaintance  with  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  and  I  have  loved  him  and  still  love  him  as  an 
exemplar,  as  one  of  the  most  true  and  solicitous  friends  that  a  man 
can  have,  and  as  a  man  of  such  high  ability  and  outstanding  achieve- 
ment as  to  command  the  respect  of  all,  not  only  within  the  confines 
of  our  Church  but  also  in  the  nation  and  the  world. 

I  have  gloried  in  his  achievements.  I  have  felt  that  the  credit 
he  has  reflected  upon  the  Church  has  been  of  immeasurable  value  in 
setting  this  work  forward.  It  will  be  a  great  pleasure  to  have  even 
closer  associations  with  him,  and  as  I  pledge  my  love  and  support 
to  the  President,  I  pledge  it  to  him  also. 

Confidence  in  Lord's  Promises 

I  cannot  go  forward  in  this  work,  my  brethren  and  my  sisters, 
without  the  aid  of  the  Holy  Spirit.  I  must  have  confidence,  however, 
in  the  promises  of  the  Lord  that  if  we  will  faithfully  serve  him  he 
will  sustain  us.  We  must  have  the  faith  of  Nephi  of  old.  If  it  is  of 
any  qualification  for  the  work,  I  declare  my  love  for  it.  I  love  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  accept  all  of  its  principles.  I 
accept  its  authority.  I  accept  the  great  and  marvelous  organization 
of  the  Church  as  being  calculated  to  raise  humanity  to  the  highest 
destiny  men  and  women  may  reach. 

Testimony  of  Divine  Origin 

I  know  that  it  is  of  divine  origin.  I  am  realistic  enough  to  be- 
lieve every  word  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  to  us  regarding 


156  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  9  Third  Day 

his  early  experiences  in  the  restoration  of  this  work.  There  is 
nothing  about  his  story  that  is  not  literal  to  me.  I  know  it  is  the 
truth,  and  I  know  that  he  lives,  as  we  sang  today,  in  the  heavens 
above,  and  has  gone  to  a  reward,  the  like  of  which  few,  if  any,  men 
shall  ever  be  permitted  to  attain. 

I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Elder  Brother  and  our  Lord 
and  our  Savior  and  the  God  of  this  earth,  and  that  testimony 
permeates  every  fibre  of  my  being. 

I  saw  one  of  my  brethren  down  here  in  the  audience  today  — 
President  Piranian.  He  will  remember  when  he  guided  us  into  the 
land  of  Jerusalem,  concerning  which  we  spoke  a  little  yesterday. 
As  I  went  to  the  places  made  memorable  and  now  preserved  as 
shrines  by  the  works  and  ministry  of  the  Savior,  my  heart  was  full 
of  meditation. 

I  never  saw  a  thing  in  the  actions  of  men,  I  never  saw  a  thing 
in  the  paganistic  buildings  that  have  been  constructed  to  remind 
me  of  the  Savior,  but  I  remember  that  it  was  here  that  he  labored, 
and  I  said  to  myself  with  the  deepest  humility,  "Brother  Piranian 
and  I  are  the  only  men  in  all  of  this  so-called  Holy  Land  who  really 
represent  the  Christ  about  whose  shrines  those  ignorant,  deluded 
people  were  quarreling  and  fighting  —  the  only  men  having  the 
priesthood  of  Almighty  God  given  from  an  angel  of  the  Lord,"  and 
I  was  subdued  as  this  overpowering  thought  came  to  me. 

I  know  that  this  priesthood  is  divine.  I  know  that  it  is  more 
than  a  mere  name.  I  know  that  there  is  virtue  and  essence  in  it,  if 
I  can  discern  anything  by  the  interpretative  senses  God  has  given 
me.  I  have  felt  the  essence  and  virtue  of  this  Holy  Priesthood  go 
out  as  I  have  administered  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

Appeal  for  Blessings 

I  thank  the  Lord  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  this  great 
power  that  has  come  to  men  and  been  so  generously  and  widely 
bestowed  among  them,  and  I  pray  to  him  that  I  may  be  worthy  of 
the  investiture  of  that  power  and  use  it  for  the  building  up  of  his 
kingdom  and  the  blessing  of  his  children. 

I  humbly  pray  that  the  administration  which  has  come  into 
being  this  day  by  your  concerted  action  may  prove  to  be  a  boon  to 
this  work  that  shall  go  beyond  anything  which  we  now  may  con- 
template, and  I  humbly  invoke  the  blessings  of  God  upon  our  beloved 
leader,  that  vision  may  be  given  him  to  see  the  way  in  which  we 
shall  go.  I  ask  God  to  bless  us  all  that  we  may  follow  him  and  sup- 
port him  to  accomplish  the  mighty  works  that  God  has  in  store  for 
his  people.  I  do  so  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  157 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

My  beloved  fellow  workers,  brethren  and  sisters:  I  wish  it 
were  within  my  power  of  expression  to  let  you  know  just  what  my 
true  feelings  are  on  this  momentous  occasion.  I  would  wish  that 
you  might  look  into  my  heart  and  see  there  for  yourselves  just  what 
those  feelings  are. 

Responsibility  of  Leadership 

It  is  just  one  week  ago  today  that  the  realization  came  to  me 
that  this  responsibility  of  leadership  would  probably  fall  upon  my 
shoulders.  I  received  word  that  President  George  Albert  Smith  had 
taken  a  turn  for  the  worse,  and  that  the  doctor  thought  the  end  was 
not  far  off.  I  hastened  to  his  bedside,  and  with  his  weeping  daugh- 
ters, son,  and  other  kinfolk,  I  entered  his  sickroom.  For  the  first 
time,  he  failed  to  recognize  me. 

Then  I  had  to  accept  the  realization  that  the  Lord  had  chosen 
not  to  answer  our  pleadings  as  we  would  have  had  them  answered, 
and  that  he  was  going  to  take  him  home  to  himself.  Thankfully,  he 
rallied  again  later  in  the  day.  Several  days  preceding  that  visit, 
as  President  Clark  and  I  were  considering  problems  of  import  per- 
taining to  the  Church,  he,  ever  solicitous  of  the  welfare  of  the 
Church  and  of  my  feelings,  would  say,  "The  responsibility  will  be 
yours  to  make  this  decision,"  but  each  time  I  would  refuse  to  face 
what  to  him  seemed  a  reality. 

Need  for  Support 

When  that  reality  came,  as  I  tell  you,  I  was  deeply  moved.  And 
I  am  today,  and  pray  that  I  may,  even  though  inadequately,  be  able 
to  tell  you  how  weighty  this  responsibility  seems. 

The  Lord  has  said  that  the  three  presiding  high  priests  chosen 
by  the  body,  appointed  and  ordained  to  this  office  of  presidency,  are 
to  be  "upheld  by  the  confidence,  faith,  and  prayer  of  the  Church." 
No  one  can  preside  over  this  Church  without  first  being  in  tune  with 
the  head  of  the  Church,  our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  He  is 
our  head.  This  is  his  Church.  Without  his  divine  guidance  and 
constant  inspiration,  we  cannot  succeed.  With  his  guidance,  with 
his  inspiration,  we  cannot  fail. 

Next  to  that  as  a  sustaining  potent  power,  comes  the  confi- 
dence, faith,  prayers,  and  united  support  of  the  Church. 

I  pledge  to  you  that  I  shall  do  my  best  so  to  live  as  to  merit  the 
companionship  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and  pray  here  in  your  presence 
that  my  counselors  and  I  may  indeed  be  "partakers  of  the  divine 
spirit." 


158  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  9  Third  Dag 

Spirit  of  Unity 

Next  to  that,  unitedly  we  plead  with  you  for  a  continuation  of 
your  love  and  confidence  as  you  have  expressed  it  today.  From  you 
members  of  the  Twelve,  we  ask  for  that  love  and  sympathy  ex- 
pressed in  our  sacred  Council.  From  the  Assistants  to  the  Twelve, 
the  Patriarch,  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  the  Presiding 
Bishopric,  we  ask  that  the  spirit  of  unity  expressed  so  fervently  by 
our  Lord  and  Savior  when  he  was  saying  good-by  to  the  Twelve, 
may  be  manifest  by  us  all. 

You  remember  he  said,  as  he  left  them:  "And  now  I  am  no  more 
in  the  world,  but  these  are  in  the  world,  and  I  come  to  thee.  Holy 
Father,  keep  through  thine  own  name  those  whom  thou  hast  given 
me,  that  they  may  be  one,  as  we  are." 

"Neither  pray  I  for  these  alone,  but  for  them  also  which  shall 
believe  on  me  through  their  word; 

"That  they  all  may  be  one;  as  thou,  Father,  art  in  me,  and  I  in 
thee,  that  they  also  may  be  one  in  us :  that  the  world  may  believe  that 
thou  hast  sent  me."  (John  17:11,  20-21.) 

Brethren  and  sisters,  brethren  of  the  General  Authorities,  God 
keep  us  as  one,  overlooking  weaknesses  we  may  see,  keeping  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  God  and  the  advancement  of  his  work. 

Help  of  Membership 

And  now  to  the  members  of  the  Church:  We  all  need  your  help, 
your  faith  and  prayers,  not  your  adverse  criticisms,  but  your  help. 
You  can  do  that  in  prayer  if  you  cannot  reach  us  in  person.  The 
potency  of  those  prayers  throughout  the  Church  came  to  me  yester- 
day when  I  received  a  letter  from  a  neighbor  in  my  old  home  town. 
He  was  milking  his  cows  when  the  word  came  over  his  radio  which 
he  has  in  his  barn  that  President  Smith  had  passed.  He  sensed  what 
that  would  mean  to  his  former  fellow-townsman,  and  he  left  his 
barn  and  went  to  the  house  and  told  his  wife.  Immediately  they 
called  their  little  children,  and  there  in  that  humble  home,  suspend- 
ing their  activities,  they  knelt  down  as  a  family  and  offered  prayer. 
The  significance  of  that  scene  I  leave  for  you  to  understand.  Multi- 
ply that  by  a  hundred  thousand,  two  hundred  thousand,  half  a  million 
homes,  and  see  the  power  in  the  unity  and  prayers,  and  the  sustain- 
ing influence  in  the  body  of  the  Church. 

Today  you  have  by  your  vote  placed  upon  us  the  greatest 
responsibility,  as  well  as  the  greatest  honor,  that  lies  within  your 
power  to  bestow  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  Your  doing  so  increases  the  duty  of  the  First 
Presidency  to  render  service  to  the  people. 

Example  of  Service 

When  the  Savior  was  about  to  leave  his  Apostles,  he  gave 
them  a  great  example  of  service.  You  remember  he  girded  himself 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  159 


with  a  towel  and  washed  his  disciples'  feet.  Peter,  feeling  it  was 
a  menial  work  for  a  servant,  said,  ".  .  .  dost  thou  wash  my  feet?  .  .  . 
Thou  shalt  never  wash  my  feet." 

The  Savior  answered  "If  I  wash  thee  not,  thou  hast  no  part 
with  me." 

"Nay  then,"  said  the  chief  Apostle,  "Not  my  feet  only,  but  also 
my  hands  and  my  head." 

"He  that  is  washed  needeth  not  save  to  wash  his  feet,  but  is 
clean  every  whit. 

"What  I  do  thou  knowest  not  now;  but  thou  shalt  know  here- 
after." (See  John  13:6,  8-10,  7.) 

And  then  he  washed  his  feet,  and  those  of  the  others  also.  Re- 
turning the  basin  to  the  side  of  the  door,  ungirding  himself,  and 
putting  on  his  robe,  he  returned  to  his  position  with  the  Twelve,  and 
said: 

"Ye  call  me  Master  and  Lord:  and  ye  say  well;  for  so  I  am. 

"If  I  then,  your  Lord  and  Master,  have  washed  your  feet;  ye 
also  ought  to  wash  one  another's  feet."  (Ibid.,  13:13-14.) 

What  an  example  of  service  to  those  great  servants,  followers 
of  the  Christ!  He  that  is  greatest  among  you,  let  him  be  least.  So 
we  sense  the  obligation  to  be  of  greater  service  to  the  membership 
of  the  Church,  to  devote  our  lives  to  the  advancement  of  the  king- 
dom of  God  on  earth. 

Blessing  and  Testimony 

God  bless  you,  brothers  and  sisters.  May  the  spirit  of  this  oc- 
casion remain  in  our  hearts.  May  it  be  felt  throughout  the  utter- 
most parts  of  the  earth,  wherever  there  is  a  branch  in  all  the  world, 
that  that  spirit  might  be  a  unifying  power  in  increasing  the  testi- 
mony of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  that  it  may  grow  in  its  influence 
for  good  in  the  establishment  of  peace  throughout  the  world. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  the  head  of  this  Church  is  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  the  reality  of  his  existence, 
of  his  willingness  to  guide  and  direct  all  who  serve  him.  I  know 
he  restored,  with  his  Father,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness.  I  know  that  these  brethren  whom  you 
have  sustained  today  are  men  of  God.  I  love  them.  Don't  you  think 
anything  else.  God's  will  has  been  done. 

May  we  have  increased  power  to  be  true  to  the  responsibilities 
that  the  Lord  and  you  have  placed  upon  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


160  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

President  David  O.  McKay 

We  will  now  all  join  in  singing,  "God  Be  With  You  'Till  We 
Meet  Again,"  led  by  Brother  Cornwall.  Both  organists,  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  and  Elder  Frank  W.  Asper,  have  been  at  the  organ. 

After  the  singing  we  will  ask  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  to  offer 
the  benediction  and  this  conference  will  be  adjourned  sine  die. 


Singing  by  the  congregation,  "God  Be  With  You  'Till  We  Meet 
Again." 

The  benediction  was  offered  by  Elder  John  A.  Widtsoe  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


FUNERAL  SERVICES 
PRESIDENT  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Held  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 
Saturday,  April  7,  1951, 
at  2:00  p.m. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  President  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  conducted  the  services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present  and  rendered  musical  num- 
bers. Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor,  directed  the  singing 
of  the  Choir;  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  George  Albert  Smith,  beloved  father,  honored  leader, 
this  vast  congregation  filling  the  Tabernacle  to  overflowing,  the 
Assembly  Hall,  Barratt  Hall,  and  those  listening  in  over  the  radio, 
say  to  you  the  love  you  have  shown  to  your  fellow  men  is  recipro- 
cated fourfold.  It  is  hard  for  us  to  express  our  love,  but  this  is  one 
manifestation  of  it,  for  truly  the  love  you  have  given  throughout 
your  life  is  reciprocated  in  our  hearts  for  you,  and  we  pray  for 
power  to  emulate  your  example  throughout  our  lives. 

Though  the  hour  has  not  yet  fully  arrived,  we  take  this  op- 
portunity of  reading  to  you  and  to  all  who  are  listening  in  sentiments 
of  regard  and  respect  sent  from  various  parts  of  the  world. 

Hundreds  of  telegrams,  messages,  resolutions,  etc.,  have  been 
received  from  people  in  different  parts  of  the  world,  including 
corporations  in  the  United  States,  Government  officials  and  Com- 
missions, ministers  of  various  churches,  Presidents  of  Educational 
Institutions,  officials  of  transportation  by  steamship,  rail  and  air, 
and  from  distinguished  citizens  not  only  throughout  the  United  States, 
but,  as  I  say,  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  It  will  be  impossible,  of 
course,  with  the  limited  time  at  our  disposal,  to  read  these  messages 
to  you  but  here  are  a  few  which  the  family  desire  me  to  read  as  rep- 
resentative of  the  sentiments  expressed. 

The  White  House, 
Washington,  D.  C. 

Mrs.  Emily  Smith  Stewart: 

The  death  of  your  father  causes  me  great  personal  sorrow.  He  not  only  was 
my  friend  and  the  grandson  of  a  friend  of  my  grandfather,  but  I  looked  upon  him 
as  one  of  our  country's  great  moral  leaders.  Mrs.  Truman  joins  me  in  extending 
sympathy  in  your  bereavement. 

Harry  S.  Truman 

President  of  the  United  States 


162  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


Albany,  New  York 

Mrs.  Robert  Murray  Stewart: 

Mrs.  Dewey  joins  me  in  sending  our  deepest  sympathy  to  you  and  your  family 
in  the  great  loss  of  your  distinguished  father.  He  was  a  great  man  and  spiritual 
force  for  good  in  our  country  and  the  world.  All  of  us  who  had  the  privilege  of 
his  friendship  were  enriched  by  it.  I  know  you  will  be  greatly  comforted  in  these 
days  by  the  countless  people  who  will  be  sharing  your  grief  and  also  your  satis- 
faction in  the  great  leadership  your  father  gave. 

Thomas  E.  Dewey 

Governor  of  the  State  of  New  York 

Omaha,  Nebraska 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

In  humility  and  profound  personal  sorrow,  we  pay  tribute  to  the  late  President 
George  Albert  Smith  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Our 
personal  sense  of  loss  is  heightened  by  appreciation  of  his  fine  useful  and  kindly 
life.  A  believer  and  worker  for  the  best  in  all  men.  His  influence  for  good  has  been 
world-wide.  The  continued  high  standing  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  a  monument  to  his  memory. 

A.  E.  Stoddard 

President  Union  Pacific  Railroad 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

To  you  and  President  McKay,  as  well  as  to  all  members  of  the  Mormon  faith 
and  to  the  people  of  the  state  of  Utah  in  general,  all  of  us  in  United  States  Steel 
send  a  message  of  deep  sympathy  on  the  death  of  your  great  leader  and  citizen, 
George  Albert  Smith.  It  has  been  our  good  fortune  during  recent  years  to  know 
and  work  with  President  Smith  in  connection  with  our  steel  operations  in  your 
great  state.  All  of  us  have  come  to  respect  and  admire  greatly  President  Smith, 
not  only  for  his  unselfish  devotion  to  the  interests  of  the  Mormon  Church,  but  also 
for  his  fine  human  qualities  and  for  his  desire  to  advance  the  welfare  of  Utah. 
You  have  lost  a  great  leader  and  citizen  and  we  a  true  friend. 

Irving  S.  Olds 

Chairman  Board  of  Directors 

United  States  Steel  Corp. 

Nukalofa,  Tonga 

Just  heard  over  radio  in  far  away  Tonga  of  the  passing  of  President  Smith. 
Sympathy  extended. 

Evon  W.  Huntsman 

President  of  the  Tongan  Mission 

The  National  Society  Sons  of  the  American  Revolution  mourns  the  passing 
of  one  of  its  most  distinguished  and  beloved  compatriots  who  for  30  years  has 
given  unselfishly  of  his  time,  energy,  and  thoughtful  cooperation  to  the  good  of 
our  country  and  society.  We  extend  our  deepest  sympathy  to  his  family  and  to 
the  Church  of  which  he  was  such  a  great  leader. 

Wallace  C.  Hall 
President  General 

Mrs.  Emily  Smith  Stewart: 

The  loss  of  George  Albert  Smith  takes  from  the  American  scene  a  man  whose 
qualities  of  heart  and  mind  and  soul  were  ever  enlisted  for  the  betterment  of  all. 
This  hard-working,  humble,  pious  man,  spiritual  leader  of  a  great  faith  through 
the  years  was  an  especial  friend  of  children  stricken  by  polio  and  other  afflictions. 
He  will  indeed  be  mourned  yet  will  be  enshrined  in  the  memories  and  remembered 
in  the  prayers  of  all  who  knew  and  loved  him. 

The  National  Foundation  for 
Infantile  Paralysis 


MESSAGES 


163 


To  the  Family  of  President  George  Albert  Smith: 

Four  thousand  Brigham  Young  University  students  mourn  the  loss  of  our 
greatest  mortal  inspiration.  We  loved  President  Smith  because  of  his  great  soul, 
kindly  spirit,  and  righteous  example.  We  are  better  because  of  him.  May  the 
memory  of  his  wonderful  life  continue  to  inspire  thousands  of  future  Brigham 
Young  University  students. 

Brigham  Young  University  Student  Body 

To  the  Family  of  President  George  Albert  Smith: 

The  Regents,  Administration,  Faculty  and  Students  of  the  University  share 
with  you,  and  all  who  knew  him,  locally  and  internationally,  a  deep  sorrow  at  the 
passing  of  your  father.  We  lost  a  counselor  of  infinite  patience,  understanding, 
compassion,  and  love.  At  the  University  a  special  bond  of  affection  binds  us  to 
his  memory.  He  had  a  love  for  truth,  a  passion  for  the  pursuit  of  knowledge, 
and  a  sympathetic  understanding  of  the  problems  of  his  fellow  men.  These  same 
talents  which  have  made  him  so  beloved  a  father  to  you,  have  made  of  him  a 
priceless  counselor  to  us  in  the  development  of  our  University  policy.  We  want 
to  express  our  appreciation  to  you  for  so  generously  sharing  him. 

It  is  not  possible  to  relieve  your  burden  of  grief,  but  it  may  comfort  you  to 
know  that  we  with  millions  of  others  would  like  to  reduce  that  burden  by  sharing 
it.  If  sorrow  at  death  can  be  felt  only  in  proportion  as  we  love  in  life,  then  we 
would  not  want  to  grieve  less;  rather  we  can  even  feel  some  gratitude  for  the 
cleansing  beauty  of  a  sorrow  born  from  no  human  frailty  but  rather  from  the 
passing  of  a  perfect  friend. 

Albert  Ray  Olpin 

President,  University  of  Utah 

As  I  have  said,  these  are  but  illustrative  of  hundreds  of  other 
messages  equally  sincere  and  impressively  expressed. 

All  the  songs  of  this  service  are  favorites  of  President  Smith. 
The  prayer  at  the  home  was  given  by  President  Smith's  Bishop, 
Bishop  A.  G.  Olofson  of  Yale  Ward.  The  floral  offerings  have  been 
under  the  care  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Relief  Society,  with  the 
assistance  of  the  General  Board  of  the  Primary  and  Primary  children 
here  at  the  Tabernacle,  and  the  General  Board  of  the  Sunday  School 
and  Sunday  School  children  while  he  was  lying  in  state  at  the 
Church  Administration  Building. 

Members  of  the  family  have  requested  me,  also,  to  express 
publicly  their  appreciation  to  the  following  people  who  have  worked 
in  very  close  personal  relationship  with  President  Smith,  some  of 
them  for  many  years,  and  others  particularly  during  his  last  illness. 
The  list  is  certainly  not  all  inclusive,  but  it  is  representative.  As  I 
have  read  this,  I  want  to  add  the  names  of  two — his  loving  brother 
Winslow  and  his  devoted  son-in-law  Robert  Murray  Stewart,  and 
others  of  the  immediate  family  who  have  shown  a  love  and  devotion 
most  commendable.  Those  named  outside  of  the  family  are  as 
follows: 

Dr.  Henry  Raile 

Dr.  J.  LeRoy  Kimball 

D.  Arthur  Haycock,  Secretary 

Geraldine  Bearnson,  Secretary 

Louisa  Grint,  Housekeeper 

Fred  Kemmethmueller,  Houseman 


164  PRESIDENT  SMITHS  FUNERAL 


And  the  following  nurses: 

Mrs.  Iva  Basing  er 

Mrs.  Norma  Carlisle 

Mrs.  Carroll  Wirthlin 

Mrs.  Eva  Gotberg 

Mrs.  Evelyn  Wilcox 

Mrs.  Odetta  Bramwell 
We  have  not  included,  but  we  wish  space  allowed  us  to,  the  names 
of  many  other  medical  consultants  and  hospital  people  who  gave  not 
only  their  skill  but  their  hearts. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing,  "Kind  Words  Are  Sweet  Tones  of  the 
Heart,"  (Alexander  Schreiner  is  at  the  organ),  following  which 
the  invocation  will  be  offered  by  Presiding  Bishop  LeGrand 
Richards. 

(Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Kind  Words  Are  Sweet  Tones  of  the 
Heart") 

INVOCATION 

By  Presiding  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards 

Our  Father  who  art  in  Heaven,  hallowed  be  thy  name.  Thou 
seest  that  we  are  met  here  this  day  as  family  members,  loved  ones, 
friends,  and  fellow  saints  of  Zion,  in  this  beautiful  and  sacred 
building  to  offer  our  appreciation  and  pay  tribute  to  the  life  and  the 
labors  of  thy  worthy  servant,  thy  prophet,  seer,  and  revelator  unto 
thy  great  Church. 

Father  in  Heaven,  our  hearts  are  heavy  with  sorrow  because 
of  the  loss  of  friendship,  privileges  and  associations  that  we  have 
enjoyed  with  thy  worthy  servant  in  the  past.  We  do  not  sorrow, 
Father,  because  of  him,  for  we  feel  that  his  life  has  been  as  fine  an 
example  to  thy  children  everywhere  as  any  man  we  have  known. 
He  has  walked  in  thy  ways.  He  has  kept  thy  commandments.  He 
has  labored  for  the  salvation  and  the  blessing  of  his  fellow  men.  In 
this  he  has  been  unselfish  and  devoted  all  the  days  of  his  life. 

We  thank  thee  Father  that  his  life  has  been  such  that  we  have 
been  able  to  listen  to  the  tributes  that  have  already  been  read  in  our 
hearing  this  day.  For  these  we  thank  thee,  and  for  the  many  others 
that  have  not  been  read.  And  we  pray  now,  Father,  that  as  we  are 
thus  gathered  together,  that  thy  Holy  Spirit  may  be  poured  out  upon 
those  who  take  part  in  these  exercises,  those  who  furnish  the  music, 
and  the  Brethren  and  those  who  have  been  asked  to  speak,  that 
they  may  speak  words  of  comfort  and  consolation,  that  may  be  an 
encouragement  and  a  comfort  to  those  who  mourn  most,  the  inti- 
mate loved  ones  of  thy  servant. 

Father,  as  these  exercises  come  to  a  close  and  we  have  listened 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY  165 


to  the  tributes  that  will  be  paid,  may  there  be  added  to  them  the 
tribute  that  each  of  us  feels  in  his  heart  for  his  association  with 
him  and  for  his  wonderful  kindness  and  his  noble  example,  for  we 
do  love  him,  Father.  Thou  knowest  all  things,  and  thou  knowest 
the  love  we  bear  for  him. 

Father  in  Heaven,  as  he  has  brought  honor  to  the  name  that  he 
bears  and  has  proven  himself  worthy  to  stand  in  the  presence  of  his 
father  and  his  grandfather,  both  of  whom  have  occupied  positions 
in  the  presidency  of  thy  Church,  we  feel  that  nothing  would  please 
him  more  nor  please  thy  Church  more  than  that  his  posterity  unto 
the  latest  generation  of  time  may  continue  to  bear  lustre  to  that 
name,  and  be  worthy  to  bear  it  among  the  children  of  men  and  the 
saints  of  Zion  everywhere. 

Now  Holy  Father,  thou  hast  declared  through  thine  Only 
Begotten  Son,  "For  blessed  are  they  which  do  mourn,  for  they  shall 
be  comforted."  We  ask  that  these  services  this  day  may  prove  a 
comfort  to  all  who  mourn,  that  thy  spirit  may  be  present  in  rich 
abundance,  that  we  may  do  honor  to  thy  noble  servant,  all  of  which 
we  ask,  and  we  thank  thee  for  all  our  blessings  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  Amen. 

President  McKay: 

The  song,  "King  of  Glory,"  will  now  be  sung  by  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  soloist  Sister  Jessie  Evans  Smith.  Following  that  we 
will  hear  from  Elder  Matthew  Cowley  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
born  and  reared  in  the  Seventeenth  Ward,  and  President  Smith's 
first  appointment  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "King  of  Glory,"  Jessie  Evans  Smith 
soloist. 

ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  is  indeed  the  most  humbling  experience  of  my  life,  and 
I  pray  God  to  strengthen  me  in  my  humility,  that  I  may  give  utter- 
ance to  what  I  have  to  say  under  the  direction  of  God's  inspiration. 

Seventeenth  Ward  Associations 

The  kindest,  the  most  generous,  the  most  appreciative,  the 
most  considerate,  the  most  forgiving,  the  most  loving  neighbor  I 
have  ever  known  has  passed  on.  His  mortal  remains  lie  here  within 
a  stone's  throw  of  where  he  was  born.  North  West  Temple  ex- 
tends from  South  Temple  on  the  south  to  First  North  on  the  north. 

From  my  early  childhood  to  my  early  manhood  I  lived  in  that 
area.  No  better  people  ever  lived  than  lived  within  those  two  blocks 
on  West  Temple  during  that  period  of  my  life.  No  greater,  no 
sweeter,  no  kinder  neighbors  ever  lived  than  lived  there. 


166  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


At  the  head  of  the  street  on  the  south  was  the  home  of  this 
man  of  God.  At  the  head  of  the  street  on  the  north  was  one  of 
the  homes  of  his  wonderful  father.  Their  homes  were  properly 
placed  on  that  street  of  good  neighbors.  Since  the  day  of  his  birth 
until  his  passing,  this  man  of  God  traveled  a  million  miles  or  more 
abroad  in  the  earth  in  doing  good. 

He  loved  the  people  in  the  old  Seventeenth  Ward,  but  he  had 
so  much  love  that  he  could  not  spend  it  all  in  that  small  area,  and 
so  God  called  him  from  the  Seventeenth  Ward  and  gave  him  to 
the  world,  and  he  went  about  the  world  among  all  nations  giving 
his  love  and  the  love  of  God  to  his  fellow  men. 

Friends  in  South  Pacific 

I  journeyed  with  him  to  New  Zealand  in  1938.  I  know  how 
the  people  of  the  Pacific  loved  him,  and  he  loved  them.  When  the 
message  from  Tonga  was  read  by  President  McKay  I  was  remind- 
ed that  on  my  first  visit  to  Tonga  about  three  and  a  half  years  ago, 
I  called  at  the  office  of  the  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Ata.  The  first  thing 
Mr.  Ata  asked  me  was,  "How  is  my  good  friend,  George  Albert 
Smith?"  He  said,  "I  have  never  met  a  grander  man  in  all  my  life 
than  that  man." 

When  I  called  on  the  crown  prince,  the  Honorable  Tungi,  he 
brought  from  the  drawer  of  his  desk  an  Improvement  Era  which 
he  had  just  received  from  President  Smith. 

In  all  the  islands  of  the  sea  he  is  loved  and  revered,  and  on 
his  last  visit  to  Hawaii  during  the  centennial  of  that  mission,  in  his 
last  testimony  to  those  people,  he  said,  "It  is  an  honor  to  have  my 
name  numbered  among  yours  upon  the  membership  records  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints." 

Good  in  Every  One 

All  those  million  miles  which  he  traveled  during  his  lifetime 
were  used  in  distributing  love  wherever  he  went.  Only  a  few  weeks 
ago  I  went  to  the  hospital  to  inquire  about  his  health.  On  hearing 
that  I  was  out  in  the  hall  he  sent  for  me  to  come  in,  and  when  I 
went  in,  I  walked  up  to  his  bedside  and  he  reached  out  and  took 
me  by  the  hand,  and  gripping  my  hand  firmly  he  said.  "Young  man, 
remember  all  the  days  of  your  life  that  you  can  find  good  in  every- 
one if  you  will  but  look  for  it."  The  last  message,  the  last  instruc- 
tion to  me — "Remember  always  you  can  find  good  in  everyone  if 
you  will  but  look  for  it." 

He  loved  everyone  because  he  could  see  the  good  within  them. 
He  did  not  look  upon  sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance,  but  he 
loved  the  sinner  because  he  knew  that  God  was  love,  and  that  it 
is  God's  love  that  regenerates  human  souls  and  may,  by  that  pro- 
cess, transform  the  sinner  into  a  saint. 


ELDER  MATTHEW  COWLEY 


167 


Maybe  there  are  sinners  who  mistook  his  love  for  respect.  He 
didn't  respect  the  sinner,  but  he  loved  him.  I  am  sure  that  love 
found  response  in  the  hearts  and  in  the  lives  of  those  whom  he  loved. 

An  Approachable  Man 

I  have  never  met  in  all  my  life  a  more  approachable  man.  I 
never  hesitated  to  go  to  him  for  confession  and  for  counsel,  and 
I  always  received  that  for  which  I  went,  whether  it  was  forgive- 
ness of  shortcomings,  or  counsel  which  I  would  need  in  the  work 
to  which  I  have  been  called  and  to  which  he  ordained  me  and  set 
me  apart. 

Truly  he  forgave  all  men.  He  was  aware  in  all  of  his  life  of 
the  commandment  of  God:  God  will  forgive  whom  he  will  for- 
give. As  for  us,  we  must  forgive  all  men.  He  could  do  that, 
and  then  refer  the  matter  to  God.  As  he  forgave  I  am  sure  he 
forgot.  When  one  who  forgives  can  forget,  then  truly  that  man 
is  an  unusual  man,  indeed  a  man  of  God! 

When  he  moved  from  the  Seventeenth  Ward,  he  just  left  the 
geographical  area.  He  never  left  his  neighbors.  I  read  a  letter 
from  a  man  who  was  in  the  army  of  occupation  in  Germany  follow- 
ing the  first  war.  He  was  a  Seventeenth  Warder,  and  he  said  in 
that  letter,  "While  I  was  on  furlough  in  Italy,  President  George 
Albert  Smith  came  to  Coblentz  to  see  me."  He  always  knew  where 
his  neighbors  were,  and  he  was  always  concerned  with  their  well- 
being. 

When  he  left  New  Zealand  for  Australia  in  1938 — he  spent  a 
month  in  Australia —  and  when  he  came  back  he  said,  "I  saw  one 
of  our  good  Seventeenth  Ward  neighbors  way  over  in  west  Aus- 
stralia.  He  came  down  from  the  mining  camps  to  see  me."  This 
man  was  a  mining  engineer. 

I  said,  "How  did  he  know  that  you  were  there  so  he  could  come 
down  to  see  you?"  And  he  said,  "I  sent  him  a  telegram."  That  man 
had  not  lived  in  the  ward  for  many  years,  but  his  neighbor  knew 
where  he  was,  and  he  sent  for  him  to  come  down  and  see  him. 

President  Smith's  Creed 

President  George  Albert  Smith  had  a  creed.  To  those  of  us 
who  knew  him,  it  is  not  necessary  to  read  that  creed  because  his 
life  was  the  creed.  All  of  us  who  knew  him  could  have  written  his 
creed.  What  an  achievement!  What  an  accomplishment!  To  be 
able  to  write  the  creed  of  your  fellow  man  by  the  life  which  he 
lived. 

If  it  is  possible  that  there  is  someone  within  the  sound  of  my 
voice  who  didn't  know  this  wonderful  neighbor,  who  has  not 
heard  nor  read  his  creed,  I  will  take  the  time  now  to  read  it. 

"I  would  be  a  friend  to  the  friendless  and  find  joy  in  minister- 
ing to  the  needs  of  the  poor. 


168  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


"I  would  visit  the  sick  and  the  afflicted  and  inspire  in  them  a 
desire  for  faith  to  be  healed. 

"I  would  teach  the  truth  to  the  understanding  and  blessing  of 
all  mankind. 

"I  would  seek  out  the  erring  and  try  to  win  him  back  to  a 
righteous  and  a  happy  life. 

"I  would  not  seek  to  force  people  to  live  up  to  my  ideals  but 
rather  love  them  into  doing  the  thing  that  is  right.  I  would  live 
with  the  masses  and  help  solve  their  problems  that  their  earth  life 
may  be  happy. 

"I  would  avoid  the  publicity  of  high  positions  and  discourage 
the  flattery  of  thoughtless  friends. 

"I  would  not  knowingly  hurt  the  feelings  of  any,  not  even  one 
who  may  have  wronged  me,  but  would  seek  to  do  him  good  and 
make  him  my  friend. 

"I  would  overcome  the  tendency  to  selfishness  and  jealousy  and 
rejoice  in  the  success  of  all  the  children  of  my  Heavenly  Father. 

"I  would  not  be  an  enemy  to  any  living  soul. 

"Knowing  that  the  Redeemer  of  mankind  has  offered  to  the 
world  the  only  plan  that  will  fully  develop  us  and  make  us  really 
happy  here  and  hereafter  I  feel  it  not  only  a  duty  but  a  blessed 
privilege  to  disseminate  this  truth." 

It  would  be  easy  for  us  to  memorize  this  creed,  my  brothers  and 
sisters  and  friends,  because  it  can  all  be  briefed  into  one  word — 
love.  That  was  his  creed.  And  with  what  grandeur  he  has  swept 
the  threshold  of  heaven  as  he  has  passed  with  this,  his  creed!  How 
his  heart  and  soul  and  his  virtue  and  strength  went  out  to  the  dis- 
tressed, to  the  unfortunate,  even  to  the  criminal.  I  am  reminded 
that  someone  once  touched  the  garment  of  the  Master,  and  he  felt 
virtue  or  strength  go  out  from  him. 

Everyone  in  distress,  everyone  beset  with  illness  or  other  ad- 
versity, whoever  came  within  the  presence  of  this  son  of  God,  drew 
virtue  and  strength  from  him.  To  be  in  his  presence  was  to  be 
healed,  if  not  physically,  then  indeed  spiritually. 

His  Heart  Was  Pure 

During  the  span  of  his  life  he  was  nigh  unto  death  on  several 
occasions.  Many  men  more  robust  in  health  could  not  have  sur- 
vived the  illnesses  which  beset  him  periodically  during  his  life. 
But  his  strength  was  as  the  strength  of  ten  because  his  heart  was 
pure,  and  so  he  survived. 

Men  like  this  never  die.  He  is  an  eternal  being.  God  attracts 
the  godly,  and  I  am  sure  that  the  shortest  journey  this  man  of  God 
ever  made  in  all  of  his  travels  has  been  the  journey  which  he  has 
just  taken!  God  is  love.  George  Albert  Smith  is  love.  He  is  godly. 
God  has  taken  him  unto  himself. 

I  have  loved  his  family.    I  have  grown  up  with  them.    I  have 


ELDER  ELBERT  R.  CURTIS 


169 


been  at  school  with  them.  All  I  can  say  now  to  them  and  to  all  of 
us  is  we  can't  honor  a  life  like  this  with  words.  They  are  not  adequate. 
There  is  only  one  way  to  honor  his  virtue,  his  sweetness  of  charac- 
ter, his  great  qualities  of  love,  and  that  is  with  our  deeds.  Let  us 
walk  in  his  footsteps,  we  who  knew  him.  We  know  what  he  want- 
ed of  us.    We  must  never  let  him  down. 

Let  us  all  be  a  little  more  forgiving,  a  little  more  tender  in  our 
associations  with  each  other,  a  little  more  considerate  of  one  an- 
other, a  little  more  generous  of  each  other's  feelings.  Let  us  so  honor 
him  that  when  we  come  to  die  we  may  be  saved  and  exalted  in  the 
celestial  presence  of  God  our  Father,  and  in  that  presence  we  will 
find  his  noble  and  prophetic  son,  George  Albert  Smith. 

God  grant  that  that  boon  and  blessing  may  be  ours  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Representing  the  Young  Men's  and  Young  Women's  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations  of  the  Church,,  Elder  Elbert  R.  Curtis, 
General  Superintendent  of  the  YMMIA  will  now  speak  to  us. 

ELDER  ELBERT  R.  CURTIS 

General  Superintendent  of  Y.M.M.I.A. 

I  earnestly  pray  that  the  sweet  spirit  that  characterized  the 
services  yesterday,  and  and  is  so  in  evidence  here  this  afternoon, 
will  accompany  my  brief  remarks  this  afternoon. 

It  would  be  interesting  to  know  on  how  many  occasions  Presi- 
dent George  Albert  Smith  stood  in  like  position,  giving  words  of 
comfort  and  counsel  and  blessing.   I  love  the  man. 

Labors  in  European  Mission 

They  say  if  you  want  to  know  about  a  man,  ask  his  secretary. 
I  count  being  the  personal  secretary  of  President  George  Albert 
Smith  and  living  in  his  home  in  far  away  England  about  30  years 
ago,  perhaps  the  greatest  privilege  and  blessing  of  my  life.  To  pray, 
to  eat,  to  live  with  the  family  of  this  good  man  was  indeed  a  bless- 
ing. His  saintly  wife  mothered  me,  his  noble  son  and  daughters 
adopted  me  as  a  brother.  When  you  live  with  people  you  know 
them.  Theirs  was  a  Latter-day  Saint  home.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
was  there  in  abundance. 

President  Smith  was  one  of  the  hardest  working  individuals 
that  I  have  ever  known.  Many  times  I  have  taken  dictation  from 
his  bedside  where  he  handled  much  of  his  work,  lest  he  waste  one 
single  moment  of  his  waking  hours.  He  was  "anxiously  engaged" 
in  his  Father's  business.  He  accomplished  a  great  and  noble  work 
there. 


170  PRESIDENT  SMITHS  FUNERAL 


He  was  so  appreciative  and  so  kind  that  it  was  a  labor  of  love, 
and  hours  didn't  seem  to  matter.  That  was  a  time  of  persecution 
and  bitterness  and  hatred  in  the  British  Isles.  His  influence  has 
lived  through  the  years  in  the  lives  of  the  missionaries  who  served 
in  post  war  Europe,  in  the  hearts  of  the  Saints  of  those  lands,  and 
in  the  attitudes  of  the  influential  individuals  with  whom  he  came 
in  touch. 

His  Life  an  Inspiration 

His  life  has  been  an  inspiration  and  particularly  I  think  to 
the  young  people  of  the  Church  and  of  the  land.  He  loved  them 
dearly.  It  seems  to  me  that  his  life  of  achievement  from  errand  boy 
at  the  early  age  of  13  at  the  old  ZCMI  to  the  pinnacles  in  civil  and 
political  life,  and  ecclesiastical  positions  is  almost  a  Horatio  Alger 
story  of  success.    It  gives  courage  and  hope  to  every  lad. 

Elder  Cowley  mentioned  that  President  Smith  was  never  very 
robust,  physically.  He  accomplished  all  this  in  spite  of  physical 
limitations. 

When  I  think  of  him  I  recall  the  story  of  the  soldier  kneeling 
with  bowed  head,  who  overheard  a  girl  whisper,  "Does  he  think 
he  will  recover  his  two  lost  legs."  The  soldier  paused  in  his  prayer 
to  reply  quietly,  "No,  but  I  shall  receive  courage  to  carry  on  with- 
out them."  President  Smith  found  courage  to  meet  life,  to  meet 
it  with  a  zest,  and  he  was  blessed  with  a  great  ability  to  inspire 
others  to  noble  achievements,  especially  the  young. 

Interest  in  Youth 

He  kept  alive  his  interest  in  youth  and  in  youthful  undertakings. 
Mention  was  made  of  the  gathering  at  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity this  afternoon.  I  have  watched  with  interest  his  great  pride 
in  the  development  of  the  Brigham  Young  University,  its  campus, 
its  building  of  science,  its  field  house,  the  athletic  program. 

I  think  all  of  us  were  touched  as  we  heard  of  his  telegram, 
delivered  to  the  dressing  room  of  the  basketball  team  in  New  York 
City  so  recently,  just  before  their  final  game.  Listen  to  this  from  a 
man  nearly  81  years  of  age,  sent  to  a  basketball  team  from  his  sick 
bed. 

"From  the  top  of  the  Rockies,  I  send  my  love  and  blessing. 
Many  thousands  share  my  pride  in  your  record.  I  have  faith  in 
your  abilities.  Play  clean,  play  hard,  play  fair,  play  to  win.  God 
bless  you"  Signed,  George  Albert  Smith.  Its  effect  was  electrical. 
Here  was  a  friend  of  youth,  and  here  was  a  formula  of  success. 

One  of  his  many  expressions  of  love  for  youth  was  found  in  his 
untiring  efforts  in  the  great  Boy  Scout  movement.  He  was  a  mem- 
ber of  the  executive  board  of  the  national  council.  He  had  been 
awarded  the  Silver  Beaver  and  the  Silver  Buffalo,  the  highest 
awards  within  the  power  of  this  great  organization  to  award. 


ELDER  ELBERT  R.  CURTIS 


171 


I  believe  that  I  not  only  speak  for  the  youth  of  our  Church, 
but  for  the  two  and  a  quarter  million  scouts  and  scouters  of  this  land 
as  I  pay  this  tribute  to  a  truly  greift  scouter,  President  George  Al- 
bert Smith.  They  do  love  him,  and  his  influence  has  been  felt  and 
will  be  felt  throughout  the  land. 

SUPERINTENDENCY  OF  Y.M.M.I.A. 

During  the  period  he  was  General  Superintendent  of  the 
YMMIA,  our  Church  and  this  state  became  the  leader  nationally  in 
this  great  Scout  movement. 

As  you  know  his  name  was  almost  synonymous  with  MIA  for 
many  years.  Under  his  guidance  and  wise  leadership  that  organ- 
ization made  great  strides  for  the  blessing  of  our  young  people. 

A  partial  summary  of  accomplishments  during  his  MIA  ad- 
ministration included  tremendous  gains  in  enrollment,  the  introduc- 
tion of  the  Senior  M  Men  and  Vanguard  departments,  the  huge  50th 
Anniversary  Jubilee,  the  annual  festivals  have  been  carried  on,  the 
development  of  the  great  M  Men  basketball  league,  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  exhibit  at  the  Chicago's  World  Fair,  and  many  other 
notable  accomplishments. 

The  message  from  the  then  First  Presidency  at  the  time  of 
his  release  as  MIA  superintendent  (that  was  in  1939)  included  these 
words:  "As  echoes  roll  from  soul  to  soul,  and  go  forever  and  for- 
ever, so  will  your  worthy  efforts  continue  to  live  in  the  lives  of 
those  whom  you  have  inspired."  He  did  inspire. 

In  behalf  of  our  youth  and  their  leaders,  the  executives,  and 
members  of  the  general  auxiliary  boards,  may  I  express  our  love, 
our  deep  gratitude  for  his  life.  Others  have  and  doubtless  will  re- 
count his  numerous  accomplishments.  His  marvelous  creed  has 
been  referred  to,  but  we  remember  him  as  the  Apostle  and  Presi- 
dent of  Love,  and  who  indeed  was  loved  and  is  loved  by  all  of  us. 
He  endeared  himself  to  us  all.  He  was  kindness  personified.  He 
personally  achieved  the  goal  of  peace  and  good  will  in  his  own 
heart  for  all  of  his  Father's  children.  Perhaps  no  words  were  used 
quite  as  often  by  him  as  that  very  term  "Our  Father's  Children." 

The  sweetness  of  this  hour  is  the  result  of  that  testimony,  which 
he  helped  give  to  all  of  us. 

God  bless  his  memory!  He  will  continue  to  inspire  us  all.  May 
our  Heavenly  Father  bless  you,  his  family,  and  near  kin,  love  you, 
comfort  you  as  your  father  did.   It  came  from  God  our  Father. 

We  do  extend  our  love,  our  sympathy,  and  our  blessing,  and 
express  the  prayer  that  the  peace  that  only  He  can  give  may  be 
yours  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  who  have  had  the  privilege  of  associating  in  public  affairs 
with  Mr.  John  F.  Fitzpatrick  are  happy  indeed  in  the  fact  that  the 


172  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


family  has  chosen  him  to  represent  the  business  men  of  the  State. 
We  shall  now  hear  from  Mr.  John  F.  Fitzpatrick,  local  business  man 
and  friend  of  President  Smith. 

MR.  JOHN  F.  FITZPATRICK 

Friends,  I  feel  deeply  honored  that  the  family  would  ask  me 
to  say  a  word  at  the  bier  of  my  friend,  President  George  Albert 
Smith.  I  feel  humble  and  inadequate.  Would  that  I  could  clothe 
with  words  the  thoughts  that  are  in  my  heart  as  I  stand  here  before 
you. 

Sincerity  of  Friendship 

I  have  known  President  Smith,  George  Albert,  as  he  was  so 
affectionately  known  to  us  for  a  long,  long  time.  He  was  an  easy 
man  to  know.  He  was  a  man  you  would  just  like  to  know.  His 
friendly  smile,  his  hearty  handclasp,  and  the  warmth  of  his  greeting 
made  you  feel  inwardly,  in  your  heart,  the  sincerity  of  his  friend- 
ship for  you  and  for  his  fellow  man.    He  was  most  gracious. 

I  well  remember  the  arrival  here  in  Salt  Lake  City  of  the  young- 
sters from  the  grade  school  at  Antimony  in  Garfield  County.  Most 
of  those  youngsters  had  never  been  beyond  the  range  of  their  vis- 
ion in  Antimony  itself.  You  can  well  imagine  their  feelings  of  ex- 
citement and  thrill  at  seeing  the  sights  and  things  of  which  they 
had  only  been  told  or  dreamed. 

Yet,  as  they  repeated  to  me  their  experiences  one  of  the  greatest 
thrills  in  that  entire  trip  was  their  meeting  here  with  President  Smith, 
who  so  gladly  took  time  from  his  busy  day  to  see  and  meet  and 
friendly  greet  each  and  every  one  of  those  children.  They  will  re- 
member that  as  long  as  they  live,  and  I  know  their  prayers  are  for 
him  today. 

Nobility  of  Character 

He  had  a  creed,  as  was  read  to  you  a  moment  ago,  a  philosophy 
of  life,  and  he  lived  it  every  day.    He  was  a  most  interesting  man. 

In  this  world  today,  torn  with  dissension,  bitterness  and  strife, 
with  envy  and  hatred  abroad,  that  true  charity  stands  out  and  well 
portrays  the  nobility  of  this  man's  character.  That  is  the  keystone 
of  the  high  respect,  the  admiration,  and  the  real  affection  in  which 
he  was  held  by  legions  of  us  outside  this  Church. 

He  was  a  man  of  peace,  striving  ever  for  the  contentment  as 
well  as  for  the  progress  of  the  people — all  of  the  people  in  the  com- 
munity. He  was  intensely  interested  in  the  building  up  of  com- 
munities, both  from  the  standpoint  of  the  economic  as  well  as  cul- 
tural values.  He  welcomed  any  project  that  would  afford  employ- 
ment or  enjoyment  of  the  arts.  For  these,  his  door  was  open  to 
Church  and  non-Church  members  alike  and  to  all  gave  a  sympa- 
thetic hearing. 


SISTER  IRENE  JONES 


173 


He  was  noble,  forthright  and  true.  He  was  an  American.  And 
now  he  has  departed  this  life.  By  all  of  us  he  will  be  sorely  missed, 
but  also  he  will  be  long  remembered.  The  Almighty  in  his  wisdom 
and  mercy  has  now  called  this  beloved  man,  this  true  Christian 
gentleman,  to  his  just  and  eternal  reward. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Sister  Irene  Jones  of  the  Society  For  the  Aid  of  the  Sightless 
recently  wrote  a  tribute  to  President  Smith,  entitled  "An  Under- 
standing Heart."  Sister  Jones,  at  the  request  of  the  family,  will 
now  read  that  tribute. 

SISTER  IRENE  JONES 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  in  Isaiah,  the  42nd  chapter,  16th 
verse,  the  Lord  has  made  a  promise  unto  the  blind  wherein  he 
says:  "And  I  will  bring  the  blind  by  a  way  they  know  not.  I  will 
lead  them  in  paths  they  have  not  known.  I  will  make  darkness  light 
before  them,  and  crooked  things  straight.  These  things  will  I  do 
unto  them,  and  not  forsake  them." 

The  more  than  twelve  hundred  blind  of  Utah  are  mourning 
today  the  passing  of  President  George  Albert  Smith.  For  we  feel 
that  through  him  this  promise  has  been  fulfilled. 

Kindness  to  the  Blind 

Many,  many  times  have  I  heard  him  say,  "These  sightless  peo- 
ple are  God's  children,  and  if  we  who  can  see  do  not  help  them,  we 
are  going  to  have  to  answer  to  our  Father  in  Heaven." 

Now,  as  he  stands  before  the  heavenly  throne  he  can  truth- 
fully say,  "Father,  I  lent  a  comforting,  sustaining  hand  to  your 
children,  my  brothers  and  sisters  who  are  traveling  life's  highway 
in  darkness.  I  brought  light  into  their  lives,  I  made  crooked  things 
straight  before  them,  and,  Father,  I  did  not  forsake  them." 

Through  the  loving  spirit  of  President  George  Albert  Smith, 
the  work  for  the  blind  in  the  Church  has  expanded,  and  reached 
out  to  touch  the  lives  and  enrich  the  lives  of  Latter-day  Saints  and 
Gentiles.  He  believed  in  us  and,  bcause  of  that  faith,  we  have 
learned  to  believe  in  ourselves  and  have  been  brought  by  a  way  we 
knew  not. 

Even  in  his  illness  he  did  not  forget  us,  but  sent  messages  of 
encouragement  and  inspiration  by  his  secretary  and  daughters. 

Wednesday,  April  4,  1951  was  a  dark  day  in  the  lives  of  the 
blind,  for  we  feel  that  we  have  lost  one  of  the  dearest  friends  we 
will  ever  know,  and  one  of  the  greatest  humanitarians  that  ever 
lived.  For  consolation  I  have  played  the  record  of  his  dear  voice, 
which  he  gave  me  at  Christmas  time,  and,  as  I  listened,  I  felt  that 
he  was  very  near  and  that  he  would  always  be  close  at  hand  to 
guide  us. 


174  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


He  is  not  dead.  Such  men  forever  live  in  the  boundless  meas- 
ure of  the  love  they  give. 

An  Understanding  Heart 

At  a  reception  given  in  his  honor  on  his  70th  birthday,  I  wrote 
and  presented  a  tribute  to  him.  Almost  every  year  after  that  he  has 
called  me  by  telephone  or  has  written  to  me  to  thank  me  again  for 
those  lines.  The  family  has  requested  that  I  repeat  them  here 
today,  and  it  is  with  deepest  gratitude  and  humility  that  I  comply 
with  their  request  in  a  tribute  to  the  understanding  heart  of  Brother 
George  Albert  Smith: 

When  life  beats  hard  with  stormy  hands 
And  bitter  teardrops  fall, 
When  friendless  winter  chills  my  soul 
And  empty  echoes  call, 
'Tis  then  I  turn  with  eager  hope, 
My  steps  though  spent  and  lame, 
To  find  an  understanding  heart 
Where  burns  a  friendly  flame. 
A  heart  where  gentle  wisdom  dwells 
Compassionate  and  kind; 
Whose  faith  in  God  and  man  has  taught 
A  like  faith  to  the  blind. 

I  lay  my  troubles  at  his  feet, 

Each  trial,  each  bitter  loss, 

The  burdens  of  a  hundred  more 

He  helps  us  bear  the  cross. 

Consecrated  by  our  Lord  with  apostolic  light, 

Consecrated  in  his  soul, 

He  makes  our  darkness  bright. 

A  loving  radiance  he  sheds 

That  comes  from  God  to  man. 

And  we  who  walk  in  life-long  night 

Can  see  as  others  can. 

Although  his  tender,  loving  face 

From  us  is  shut  apart, 

We  see  the  gracious  wisdom 

Of  his  understanding  heart. 

We  feel  the  peace  within  his  soul 

And  know  a  peace  our  own; 

We  hear  his  silent  prayer  that  tells 

We  do  not  walk  alone. 

His  faith  in  us  will  give  us  strength, 

As  unseen  paths  we  plod 

Our  souls  uplifted  by  a  man 

In  partnership  with  God. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


175 


May  our  Heavenly  Father  look  down  upon  all  of  us  in  tender 
mercy  at  this  time  and  bring  into  our  darkened  lives  the  healing 
light  of  his  great  and  everlasting  love  is  my  prayer  and  I  ask  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Know  That  My  Re- 
deemer Lives,"  soloist,  Elder  Harold  H.  Bennett. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
Chairman  of  the  Indian  Committee  of  the  Church,  of  which  work 
and  people  the  President  was  so  fond,  will  now  speak  to  us. 

ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  stand  in  reverential  awe,  almost  breathless  awe,  in  this 
auspicious  moment  in  these  services  of  President  George  Albert 
Smith. 

A  scribe  came  to  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  one  day  and  said: 

Which  is  the  first  commandment  of  all?  And  Jesus  answered  him  .  .  .  Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and  with 
all  thy  mind,  and  with  all  thy  strength:  .  .  . 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself.  There  is  none  other  commandment 
greater  than  these. 

And  then  the  scribe  added  that  to  love  the  Lord  and  to  love  his 
neighbour  more  than  himself  ".  .  .  is  more  than  all  whole  burnt 
offerings  and  sacrifices."  And  then  the  Lord  said,  "Thou  are  not 
far  from  the  kingdom  of  God." 

Whenever  I  thought  of  our  beloved  President,  I  have  always 
felt  that  he  was  very,  very  near  that  kingdom. 

It  seemed  to  me  that  every  act,  every  thought  of  our  President 
would  indicate  that  with  all  of  his  heart  and  soul  he  loved  the  Lord, 
and  loved  his  fellowmen.  Is  there  a  mortal  being  who  could  have 
loved  them  more? 

Interest  in  American  Indians 

As  his  great  love  for  his  fellowmen  began  to  grow  into  a  great 
compassion,  he  saw  in  vision  a  certain  whole  people  who  went 
down  from  the  proverbial  Jerusalem  to  Jericho  and  they  fell  among 
thieves.  He  saw  them  stripped  of  their  raiment  and  sorely  wound- 
ed. He  saw  them  deserted  and  deprived.  He  saw  priests  come  by 
who  saw  their  plight  and  passed  by  on  the  other  side.  He  saw 
modern  Levites  who  came  and  looked  and  passed  by  on  the  other 
side.  President  Smith  determined  it  was  time  to  do  something  con- 
structive for  these  Indian  people  who  had  fallen  into  misfortune. 


176  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


He  determined  that  it  was  time  to  bind  up  their  wounds,  and  to  pour 
thereon  the  oil. 

He  went  to  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  (President  Smith  was 
then  in  the  Council  of  the  Twelve),  and  asked  him  for  permission 
to  do  work  among  the  Indian  people  which  was  granted.  A  com- 
mittee was  organized  and  the  work  began  in  a  small  way  as  many 
programs  do. 

These  words  he  said  in  one  of  his  talks:  "I  have  been  intensely 
interested  in  doing  something  for  the  American  Indians.  I  have 
traveled  through  several  of  the  reservations;  I  have  seen  the  need 
of  something  more  being  done  for  these  children  who  are  growing 
up.  It  remains  for  us  who  know  and  feel  that  these  Indians,  as  we 
refer  to  them,  are  our  Father's  children. 

"These  Indians  are  descendants  of  a  phophet  of  God  who  left 
Jerusalem  600  years  before  the  birth  of  Christ.  I  have  been  in  their 
homes,  in  many  places,  and  have  seen  their  poverty,  their  patience, 
and  their  forbearance."  And  then  he  went  on  and  said:  "I  have 
had  an  interest  in  those  Indians,  and  felt  the  urge  to  help,  and  only 
within  the  last  two  or  three  years  have  I  had  this  opportunity  and 
power  to  do  something."  He  lived  to  see  this  work  grow,  from  an 
infant  organization,  the  Navajo-Zuni  Mission,  to  the  full  fledged 
Southwest  Indian  Mission  with  more  than  a  hundred  missionaries. 

He  had  already  seen  the  effectual  work  among  the  Lamanites 
down  in  the  South  Sea  Islands,  in  Mexico,  in  Spanish  America,  and 
in  other  places,  and  now  he  was  to  see  practically  every  North 
American  mission  with  vigorous  proselyting  work  being  done 
among  the  Indians.  And  then  he  lived  to  see  many  of  the  184 
Stakes  of  Zion  with  intensive  proselyting  being  done  in  the  Stakes 
among  the  Indians. 

Latter-day  Saint  Indians  Present 

He  loved  to  see  many,  many  hundreds  of  Lehi's  descendants 
join  the  Church,  receive  the  priesthood,  and  their  endowments,  and 
be  organized  into  branches,  and  today  there  are  in  this  congrega- 
tion, more  than  a  hundred  of  the  Indian  brothers  and  sisters  from 
far  up  in  the  north  to  far  down  in  the  south,  representing  the  Nava- 
jos  and  the  Zunis,  the  Hopis  and  the  Apaches,  the  Cocopohs  and 
the  Yumas,  the  Utes  and  the  Piutes,  the  Walpis,  and  many,  many 
others. 

Never  before,  in  modern  days  at  least,  has  there  been  in  a 
conference,  and  at  a  funeral,  such  a  large  aggregation  of  Latter- 
day  Saint  Indians,  and  I  know  that  if  President  Smith  could  see 
them  here  today  his  heart  would  go  out  to  them  in  compassion, 
love,  and  appreciation. 

Visit  to  Navajo  Reservation 

About  four  years  ago  President  Smith  made  a  visit  to  the  Navajo 
Indian  Reservation,  taking  Elder  Cowley  and  myself  with  him. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL  177 


It  was  a  missionary  meeting,  there  being  priests  and  ministers  pres- 
ent from  many  of  the  sects  and  denominations.  A  hundred  and 
fifty  men  and  women  were  there.  There  were  some  disputations. 
Apparently  some  missionaries  had  gone  to  the  hospital  patients  of 
other  sects  to  bring  relief  and  succor,  and  heated  suggestions  were 
made  to  restrict  missionaries  to  visit  only  their  own  people. 

President  Smith  in  majesty  stood  up,  and  obtained  the  floor  and 
said:  "My  friends,  I  am  perplexed  and  shocked.  I  thought  people 
went  to  the  hospital  to  rest  and  get  well.  If  I  were  ill,  it  would 
please  me  very  much  if  any  good  Christian  missionary  of  any  de- 
nomination would  be  kind  enough  to  visit  me  and  bind  up  my  wounds 
and  pour  on  the  sacred  oil." 

And  then  President  Smith  went  on  to  tell  them  that  this  Church 
not  only  believes  in  tolerance,  but  also  in  understanding,  and  ex- 
pressed the  thought  that  long  years  ago  Father  Scanlan,  a  Roman 
Catholic  Priest,  conducted  mass  in  the  St.  George  tabernacle  at 
the  suggestion  and  with  permission  of  one  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  and  the  president  of  the  stake,  who  were  there. 

That  happened  on  May  25,  1879.  The  priest  had  complained 
that  he  had  no  place  in  which  he  could  conduct  a  mass  for  his  people 
in  southern  Utah.  The  suggestion  came  from  our  brethren,  and 
the  mass  was  held.  He  had  said,  "We  have  no  one  to  sing  the 
Mass."  The  brethren  had  said,  "You  furnish  the  score;  we  will 
furnish  the  singers."  And  Catholic  mass  was  conducted  in  a  taber- 
nacle. 

He  also  told  the  group  of  ministers  that  the  Church  had  also 
assisted  some  of  the  Protestant  denominations  to  get  started  in  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  in  Utah. 

There  was  a  general  applause  from  these  church  dignitaries 
and  it  was  as  though  a  magic  word  had  been  spoken,  like  the  Master 
spoke  when  he  said  "Peace,  Peace,  be  still."  The  waves  of  suspic- 
ion and  antagonism  became  calm  and  placid. 

Perfection  of  Life 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  told  us,  "Be  ye  perfect  even  as  your 
Father,  which  is  in  heaven  is  perfect."  And  so  to  compare  Presi- 
dent George  Albert  Smith  with  our  Lord  and  Master  I  do  not  count 
a  sacrilege,  for  perhaps  he  came  nearer  than  the  great  majority  of 
his  contemporaries  to  that  perfection. 

The  Savior  said,  "When  ye  come  into  an  house,  salute  it,  and 
if  the  house  be  worthy  let  your  peace  come  upon  it."  And  President 
Smith  was  much  like  that.  There  are  homes  from  ocean  to  ocean 
and  then  from  ocean  to  ocean  again  who  have  felt  the  peace  that  a 
great  prophet  has  left  in  their  home. 

And  the  Lord  said  "Be  ye  therefore  wise  as  serpents,  and 
harmless  as  doves,"  and  we  have  all  seen  the  harmlessness  of  this 
good  man  as  well  as  his  wisdom  and  his  inspiration. 


178  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


The  Lord  said  "Blessed  are  the  meek,  for  they  shall  inherit 
the  earth,"  and  we  have  seen  in  him  personification  of  meekness  and 
lowliness  of  heart,  for  the  Savior  said  of  Himself,  "I  am  meek  and 
lowly  in  heart,"  and  President  Smith  has  approached  it  closely. 

And  then  He  said,  "Well  done  thou  good  and  faithful  servant, 
thou  has  been  faithful  over  a  few  things,  I  will  make  thee  ruler  over 
many."  He  was  good,  he  was  faithful,  and  he  has  been  ruler  over 
many,  but  he  will  yet  rule  and  reign  over  the  many  things  through- 
out the  eternities. 

Way  up  in  the  north  of  this  Palestinian  country,  the  Lord 
asked  Peter  and  his  associates,  "Whom  do  men  say  that  I,  the  Son 
of  Man,  am?"  and  Peter  said,  "Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  son  of  the 
living  God."  And  then  the  Lord  said,  "Blessed  art  thou  Simon 
Barjonah,  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  this  unto  thee,  but 
my  Father  which  is  in  Heaven." 

May  God  bless  his  memory  and  bless  us  that  we  may  follow 
him  in  the  righteous  things  which  he  has  exemplified  to  us,  I 
pray,  and  bear  you  my  testimony  also,  that  I  also  know  that  this 
is  the  truth,  that  he,  President  George  Albert  Smith,  was  a  prophet 
of  God  and  that  he  followed  several  others  who  were  also  prophets 
of  God,  and  that  the  Gospel  has  been  restored,  and  it  is  here  for  all 
the  billions  of  peoples  in  this  world.  This  I  bear  in  great  solemnity, 
and  with  a  great  love  for  my  leader,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  President  George  Albert  Smith's 
first  counselor  in  the  Quorum  of  the  First  Presidency,  will  now 
address  us. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  to  President  George  Albert  Smith 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  and  friends:  Under  all  circumstances 
it  is  difficult  for  me,  with  the  words  at  my  command,  to  express  the 
thoughts  and  the  feelings  that  are  in  my  heart.  But  on  this  occasion 
it  is  particularly  difficult  because  it  is  hard  for  a  man  to  control  his 
feelings  and  his  thoughts,  on  occasions  such  as  this,  when  he  has 
lived  and  worked  as  closely  as  have  I  and  President  McKay  with  a 
great  man  of  whom  it  has  been  properly  suggested  that  his  real 
name  was  Love. 

A  True  Servant  to  the  Lord 

He  was  universally  kind  and  considerate  of  both  of  us  who 
were  privileged  and  honored  to  work  with  him.  I  fully  endorse  from 
my  own  knowledge  and  observation  all  of  the  good  that  has  been 


PRESIDENT  }.  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


179 


said  of  him  here  today,  and  nothing  but  good  has  been  said,  or  could 
be  said. 

There  lies  before  us  the  worn  and  wilted  suit  of  clothes  he  wore 
here;  all  that  we  knew  and  loved  and  admired,  all  that  led  to  his  ac- 
complishments, all  that  inspired  his  love,  all  that  helped  him  to  live 
righteously,  still  lives,  and  is,  and  will  live  throughout  the  eternities 
to  come;  he  lives,  a  great  soul  who  spent  his  life,  his  strength  at  the 
expense  of  his  health  in  the  service  of  his  master. 

It  was  impossible  to  get  him  to  ease  up.  He  never  would  quit 
till  he  had  to  go  to  bed.  Time  and  time  again  we  have  urged  him, 
that  he  go  home  and  rest.  Time  and  time  again  he  has  indicated 
that  he  would,  and  an  hour  or  two  hours  or  three  hours  later,  I  have 
looked  him  up  and  found  him  still  working.  He  could  refuse  nobody 
an  opportunity  to  talk  with  him,  and  no  one  ever  came  to  him,  as  has 
been  said  here,  and  went  away  empty.  He  was  a  true  servant  to 
the  Lord. 

Helpfulness  of  Loved  Ones 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  regarding  the  family,  and  particularly 
the  two  daughters,  Emily  and  Edith.  No  father  ever  had  tenderer 
care,  more  solicitous  attention  than  these  two  gave  to  President 
Smith,  their  father.  It  was  Emily's  opportunity,  because  she  lived 
in  the  home  with  him,  to  be  a  little  closer  to  him  in  the  sense  of  ad- 
ministering to  his  wants  and  needs.  Emily  has  been  on  duty  for 
weeks  past  24  hours  a  day  and  Edith  has  always  been  at  hand  to 
help. 

The  Lord  will  bless  you  two  daughters  for  what  you  did  for  your 
father. 

The  son,  Brother  George  Albert,  was  not  here.  His  lot  was  in 
other  places,  but  as  soon  as  he  returned,  he,  too,  did  all  he  could  to 
help  his  father  as  a  devoted  son. 

While  not  a  member  of  the  family  I  should  like  to  add  just  a 
word  to  what  has  already  been  said  regarding  Brother  Arthur  Hay- 
cock. No  father  ever  had  a  son  more  devoted,  more  loyal,  more 
willing,  more  available,  day  or  night,  than  Brother  Arthur  was  avail- 
able and  willing  to  help  President  Smith.  President  Smith  could  not 
have  lived  so  long  as  he  did  save  for  the  help  which  this  good,  de- 
voted, loyal  young  man  gave  to  him,  and  the  Lord  will  bless  him,  too, 
for  that. 

Another  Leader  Will  Come 

But,  I  should  like  to  say  to  the  people  that  another  leader  will 
come  in  due  course.  Another  leader  will  carry  on.  He,  too,  will 
have  love  in  his  heart  for  you.  He,  too,  will  live  as  President  Smith 
has  lived,  near  to  the  Lord,  and  this  work,  under  him  and  under  those 
who  will  follow  him,  will  roll  forward  just  so  surely  as  we  live. 

The  world  expected  the  Church  to  go  to  pieces  when  the  Prophet 


180  PRESIDENT  SMITHS  FUNERAL 


Joseph  died.  It  did  not.  People  thought  that  when  Brigham  Young 
passed,  great  soul  that  he  was,  that  the  work  would  dwindle  and  fade 
away.  We  used  to  hear  that  the  Church  could  not  survive  the  third 
generation.  We  are  in  the  fifth  and  the  sixth,  and  the  Church  still 
lives  and  grows. 

So  to  the  Saints  I  say,  while  you  mourn  today  be  of  good  cheer, 
for  the  Lord  has  not  forgotten  you,  nor  will  he,  and  he  will  lead  you 
in  the  future  as  he  has  in  the  past. 

Strength  of  Testimony 

I  repeat,  his  was  a  great  life.  He  knew  the  truths  that  lie  behind 
those  immortal  words  of  that  great  tragic  figure  of  all  time,  Job.  He, 
too,  could  say,  "I  know  that  my  redeemer  liveth."  That  was  the 
moving,  the  guiding,  the  energizing  testimony  that  kept  President 
George  Albert  Smith  going.  He  never  forgo"t  that,  and  that  testi- 
mony never  dimmed.  It  was  with  him  as  the  merest  youth.  It  was 
with  him  the  day  of  his  death,  and  every  day  and  hour  that  lay  be- 
tween. 

He  also  knew  what  we  all  know,  that  there  will  be  a  resurrec- 
tion. The  body  and  spirit  shall  be  reunited  to  make  the  soul.  He 
knew  the  truth  expressed  by  Martha  in  that  great  interview  between 
Martha  and  Christ  at  the  time  of  the  raising  of  Lazarus. 

"Lord,  if  thou  hadst  been  here,  my  brother  had  not  died." 

Jesus  said,  "Thy  brother  shall  rise  again."  "I  know,"  replied 
Martha,  "that  he  shall  rise  again  in  the  resurrection  at  the  last  day." 

Then  came  those  great  statements,  "I  am  the  resurrection  and 
the  life:  he  that  believeth  in  me,  though  he  were  dead,  yet  shall  he 
live: 

"And  whosoever  liveth  and  believeth  in  me  shall  never  die. 
Believest  thou  this?" 

"Yea,  Lord:  I  believe  that  thou  art  the  Christ,  the  son  of  God, 
which  should  come  into  the  world." 

That  was  the  testimony  which  burned  in  the  heart  of  President 
George  Albert  Smith. 

His  Work  Finished 

We  shall  miss  President  Smith,  miss  all  the  qualities  of  which 
so  much  has  been  said  and  deservedly  said,  and  truthfully  said,  which 
he  possessed  but  we  shall  not  grieve,  because  his  body  was  worn  and 
torn;  living,  he  would  have  been  an  invalid.  His  work,  I  am  sure, 
was  finished  and  more  than  once  he  expressed  himself  to  me  and  to 
others  that  he  wished  to  live  no  longer  than  the  Lord  wanted  him  to 
live.   He  was  ready  to  go  as  the  Lord  desired. 

He  greatly  exemplified  those  wonderful  words  of  Paul:  "I  have 
fought  a  good  fight,  I  have  finished  my  course,  I  have  kept  the  faith." 
What  a  summation  of  a  life,  and  how  true  that  summation  is  of  this, 
our  beloved  and  departed  president,  George  Albert  Smith. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY  181 


May  God  give  to  his  family  and  to  the  people,  for  I  assure  you, 
the  family,  that  the  people  of  the  Church  mourn  with  you,  may  he 
give  to  you  and  to  them  the  peace  which  He  alone  can  give,  the  peace 
of  which  the  Savior  spoke  on  the  last  night  in  the  chamber,  the  night 
before  the  crucifixion:  "Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I  give  unto 
you:  not  as  the  world  giveth,  give  I  unto  you.  Let  not  your  heart  be 
troubled,  neither  let  it  be  afraid." 

May  God  give  this  to  you,  the  bereaved  immediately,  and  to  us, 
the  Saints,  whom  he  loved  so  much,  and  to  the  world  for  which  he 
had  likewise  a  deep  and  undying  love;  that  all  of  us  may  profit  by  the 
great  example  which  he  set,  so  that  we,  too,  may  live  righteously, 
loving  our  fellow  men  that  we  may  be  with  him  in  the  times  to  come, 
through  all  the  eternities  that  are  to  follow,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  Second 
Counselor  to  President  George  Albert  Smith 

In  the  announcements  made  of  groups  who  have  sent  messages 
of  condolence  and  sympathy,  we  mentioned  ministers  of  other  church- 
es. May  I  announce  to  you  today  that  the  president  of  the  Re- 
organized Church,  President  Israel  A.  Smith,  kinsman  of  President 
George  Albert,  is  here  in  person  paying  his  respects  to  the  family  and 
is  sitting  among  the  mourners. 

The  family  very  graciously  asked  if  I  would  speak  on  this  oc- 
casion. Out  of  consideration  to  you  and  in  face  of  the  fact  that 
much  has  been  said  in  tribute  to  our  departed  brother,  which  need 
not  and  should  not  be  repeated,  I  will  content  myself  to  a  few  words 
of  summary,  and  trust  that  this  will  be  acceptable  to  my  dear  friends 
who  are  members  of  this  illustrious  family. 

Purpose  of  Services 

The  purpose  of  these  services  is  to  pay  tribute  to  our  departed 
brother,  and,  secondly  to  bring  solace,  and  peace  to  the  sorrowing 
hearts  of  the  bereaved.  We  have  listened  to  tributes,  as  great  I 
think,  as  could  be  paid  to  any  great  leader. 

May  I  now  say  a  word  about  the  second  purpose  of  a  funeral 
service:  To  bring  solace  and  comfort  to  sorrowing  hearts.  This  is 
done  by  three  principal  means. 

First,  in  contemplation  of  the  fact  that  he,  whose  departure 
strains  the  heart  strings,  has  lived  a  useful,  noble  life.  What  con- 
solation that  will  bring  to  any  bereaved  father,  mother,  or  child. 

Second,  comfort  in  the  consciousness  that  loved  ones  were  true 
and  loyal  as  his  children  and  kinsfolk,  and  that  particularly  during 
illness  they  did  everything  humanly  possible  to  administer  to  his 
needs,  to  alleviate  his  pain,  and  to  give  him  comfort. 


182  PRESIDENT  SMITH'S  FUNERAL 


And  third,  comfort  in  the  assurance  of  the  immortality  of  the  hu- 
man soul;  the  assurance  that  their  father  is  just  away. 

In  the  highest  degree  you  children  and  kinsfolk  should  find  peace 
and  consolation  from  these  three  contributing  factors. 

Comfort  in  Bereavement 

Secondly,  and  I  speak  advisedly  here,  for  I  have  seen  these  chil- 
dren, son  and  daughters  in  action,  the  tender  attention,  thoughtful, 
efficient  care  rendered  by  you  daughters  and  by  Albert  and  other 
members  of  the  family,  your  having  left  nothing  undone,  nothing 
unapplied,  which  might  contribute  to  your  father's  restoration  or  to 
his  comfort,  should  now  in  this  hour  of  bereavement  bring  consola- 
tion to  your  aching  hearts.  And  not  only  in  this  hour,  but  through- 
out the  coming  years. 

And  thirdly,  as  sure,  as  certain  as  Christ's  spirit  visited  other 
spirits  in  the  eternal  realm  while  his  body  lay  in  the  borrowed  tomb 
of  Joseph  of  Arimathea,  so  lives  the  immortal  spirit  of  your  father, 
our  friend,  our  beloved  leader,  President  George  Albert  Smith.  We 
said  in  the  opening  that  we  believed  he  is  aware  of  our  presence  here 
today.  Why  shouldn't  he  be?  Christ  was  conscious  of  the  near- 
ness of  His  Father  when  he  stood  at  the  grave  of  Lazarus  and  said, 
"I  know  thou  hearest  me  always." 

Last  Tuesday  night  Brother  George  Albert  Smith  lifted  his 
hand  to  Sister  McKay  and  me  and  said,  "Goodnight."  That  was 
his  last  word  to  us.  Twenty-four  hours  later  he  awoke  in  a  glorious 
morning  in  the  presence  of  those  loved  ones  who  had  gone  before, 
and  realized  the  truth  of  Christ's  saying  on  earth,  "In  my  Father's 
house  are  many  mansions,  if  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have  told  you. 
I  go  to  prepare  a  place  for  you." 

God  bless  his  memory  and  bring  comfort  to  your  souls  today 
and  always,  you  choice  children  and  members  of  an  illustrious  fam- 
ily, I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

After  the  singing  and  the  benediction  will  the  audience  please 
remain  standing  until  the  casket,  the  General  Authorities,  and  the 
family  have  made  their  exit  from  the  building.  You  will  do  this  in 
respectful  tribute,  I  am  sure. 

There  will  be  a  program  at  the  graveside:  Singing  by  the  Gleaner 
Girls  quartet,  East  Mill  Creek  Ward,  and  the  dedication  of  the  grave 
will  be  by  Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  President  Smith's  brother. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  another  favorite  of  President  Smith's, 
"Do  What  Is  Right,"  after  which  the  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
President  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 


GRAVESIDE  SERVICES 


183 


BENEDICTION 
By  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans 

Our  Father  in  Heaven,  we  thank  thee  for  the  peace  and  sweet 
assurance  that  we  have  felt  here.  We  thank  thee  for  the  privilege 
that  has  been  ours  of  association  with  thy  son,  President  George 
Albert  Smith,  in  whose  passing  we  have  sorrowed,  and  in  whose 
life  we  have  found  reason  to  rejoice. 

Grant  our  Father  that  the  spirit  of  love  and  peace  and  kind- 
liness, which  was  exemplified  by  him  may  move  increasingly  among 
men,  and  that  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  by  thy  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
to  which  he  devoted  his  life  may  speedily  move  forward  in  the  earth. 

We  thank  thee  for  the  assurance  of  life  everlasting,  and  for  the 
promise  of  renewal  of  association  with  men  such  as  he  whom  thou 
hast  taken  home. 

Comfort  and  sustain  his  family  our  Father,  and  as  he  so  often 
prayed  and  pleaded,  grant  that  we  may  all  live  so  as  to  find  our 
names  written  in  the  Lamb's  Book  of  Life. 

Go  forth  with  us  from  here  with  thy  peace  and  protection,  with 
thy  guidance  and  direction  and  with  renewed  earnestness  in  pur- 
suing thy  purposes,  and  let  the  spirit  of  thy  Son,  the  Prince  of  Peace, 
prevail  in  the  earth,  we  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

GRAVESIDE  SERVICES 
With  President  David  O.  McKay  presiding 

The  Gleaner  Girls  quartet  of  the  East  Mill  Creek  Ward  sang 
the  hymn,  "O  My  Father,"  after  which  the  grave  was  dedicated  by 
Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith,  as  follows: 

DEDICATION  OF  GRAVE 
By  Elder  Winslow  Farr  Smith 

Father  in  Heaven,  we  have  assembled  here  to  lay  in  mother 
earth  the  mortal  remains  of  our  loved  one,  thy  servant.  By  the  side 
of  his  beloved  wife,  are  we  laying  him. 

Here  on  this  immediate  spot  of  ground  are  his  brothers  and  sis- 
ters that  have  gone  before,  also  his  father  and  mother,  his  grandfather 
and  grandmother,  and  his  great-grandfather  and  great-grandmother, 
all  in  the  immediate  vicinity  of  this  grave.  Father,  we  feel  the  spirit 
of  his  noble  ancestors  and  loved  ones  who  are  today  looking  on  him 
to  whom  we  are  bidding  earthly  farewell. 

We  are  grateful,  Father,  for  the  life  of  this,  our  beloved  one — 
for  the  humility;  the  faith;  the  love  for  his  children,  brothers,  and 
sisters,  and  for  the  leadership  he  has  been  to  us  as  members  of  his 
father's  family. 

Father,  we  now  bid  farewell,  and  pray  that  his  spirit — the  spirit 


184 


PRESIDENT  SMITHS  FUNERAL 


of  love,  the  spirit  of  peace — may  be  in  the  hearts  of  every  one  of  us 
who  are  his  Father's  children.  May  we  never  forget  what  he  has 
been  to  us.    Father,  accept  him,  we  pray  thee. 

We  bless  this  land,  this  spot,  and  dedicate  it  as  the  permanent 
resting  place,  and  ask,  Heavenly  Father,  that  thou  wilt  accept  this, 
thy  son.  Guard  him  well,  and  guard  us  well  that  we  may  be  worthy 
to  come  and  be  with  him  and  come  forth  on  the  morning  of  the  first 
resurrection  with  him. 

We  dedicate  this  grave  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


INDEX 


PAGE 


Adams,  Elder  Orval  W   19 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph  -   4 

Auditing  Committee,  Church — Report   19 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   2 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   138 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft    45 

"A  Real  Man"  45,  Tribute  to  President  Smith  46,  Saving  of  Souls  47, 
Comments  of  Chaplain  48,  Faith  in  Youth  48,  Church  Program  49, 
Scouting  49,  Leadership  Needed  51. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E.  120 


Judged  According  to  Works  120,  Meaning  of  Righteousness  121,  Ob- 
servance of  Law  121,  Be  Ye  Therefore  Perfect  122,  Righteous  Judg- 
ment 123,  Progressive  Beings  123,  Excellence  Through  Effort  123, 


A  Practical  Religion  124,  Growth  Through  Activity  125. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers  and  Organizations    4 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast    89 

Church  of  the  Air   84 

Clark,  Elder  J.  Reuben,  Jr  

  10,  38,  39,  64,  65,  66,  78,  115,  116,  134,  135,  136,  153 

Clark,  Elder  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   78 

Guiding  Principles  78,  Conditions  in  the  World  79,  Work  of  the 
Devil  79,  Power  to  Save  the  World  80. 

Clark,  Elder  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  136 


Instructions  Concerning  Voting  136,  Voting  on  First  Presidency  138, 
Voting  on  President  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Full  Quorum 
141,  Voting  on  Patriarch  to  the  Church  144,  Voting  on  Prophets, 
Seers  and  Revelators  146,  Voting  on  Other  General  Authorities  and 


General  Officers  147. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  153 

Pledge  of  Devoted  Service  154. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  178 

President  Smith's  Funeral  178,  A  True  Servant  to  the  Lord  178, 
Helpfulness  of  Loved  Ones  179,  Another  Leader  Will  Come  179, 
Strength  of  Testimony  180,  His  Work  Finished  180. 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   102 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  102. 

Cowley,  Elder  Matthew   165 

President  Smith's  Funeral  165,  Seventeenth  Ward  Associations  165, 


Friends  in  South  Pacific  166,  Good  in  Every  One  166,  An  Approach- 
able Man  167,  President  Smith's  Creed  167,  His  Heart  Was  Pure  168. 


186 


INDEX 


Curtis,  Elder  Elbert  R.  169 

President  Smith's  Funeral  169,  Labors  in  European  Mission  169,  His 
Life  an  Inspiration  170,  Interest  in  Youth  170,  Superintendency  of 
Y.M.M.I.A.  171. 

Deaths   9 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.      72 

Restricted  by  Time's  Limitations  72,  The  Basis  of  Strength  and 
Growth  73,  The  Time  Test  73,  Individual  Responsibility  73. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.    84 

Church  of  the  Air  84,  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  89. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  182 

President  Smith's  Funeral  182,  Benediction  182. 

Financial  Report    10 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting    38 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting   3 

Fitzpatrick,  Mr,  John  F.   172 

President  Smith's  Funeral  172,  Sincerity  of  Friendship  172,  Nobility 
of  Character  172. 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present      2 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained   138 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    66 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B.   74 

Prophets  of  God  74,  Adult  Members  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  74,  Need 
for  Guidance  75,  Workers  Needed  76,  Fathers  and  Sons  76,  Close 
Relationship  77. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R.  131 

Power  in  Gospel  131,  Especial  Responsibility  of  Seventies  132,  Testi- 
mony 132. 

Jones,  Sister  Irene  173 

President  Smith's  Funeral  173,  Kindness  to  the  Blind  173,  Poem — 
"An  Understanding  Heart"  174. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.   103 

Statement  of  Paul  103,  Chosen  Leaders  104,  Need  of  Being  Valiant 
104,  Spiritually  Dead  105,  Greater  Church  Activity  105. 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W.   175 

President  Smith's  Funeral  175,  Interest  in  American  Indians  175, 
Latter-day  Saint  Indians  Present  176,  Visit  to  Navajo  Reservation 
176,  Perfection  of  Life  177. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B  -   31 

The  Hand  of  Death  31,  The  Time  to  Prepare  32,  Gospel  to  be 
Preached  32,  A  Light  to  the  World  32,  Witnesses  Before  the  World 
33,  Japanese  Missionary  Girl  34,  Counsel  of  Susannah  Wesley  35. 

Meeks,  Elder  Heber   35 


INDEX  187 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F.   51 

A  Peculiar  People  52,  President  George  Albert  Smith  52,  Moral 
Standards  53,  The  Liquor  Problem  53,  Relations  With  Fellowmen 
54,  Greed  and  Selfishness  54,  The  Golden  Rule  55,  Need  to  Repent 
56,  Need  of  the  Hour  57. 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D  125 

President  Smith's  Example  126,  Love  Among  Brethren  126,  Interest 
in  Individuals  127,  Care  of  Church  Funds  127,  A  Great  Missionary 
128. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   3,  4, 

10,  19,  31,  37,  38,  80,  91,  92,  110,  115,  116,  135,  136,  150, 
157,  160,  161,  165,  169,  171,  172,  173,  175,  178,  181,  182,  183 

McKay,  President  David  O.   80 

Missionary  Recommendations  80,  Temple  Workers  81,  Sunday 
Schools  81,  Inspiration  of  Priesthood  Meeting  82,  Attendance  to 
Duty  82,  Love  for  Fellowmen  83. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   92 

Testimony  of  Redeemer  92,  Contributions  of  Great  Men  93,  Highest 
of  All  Ideals  93,  The  Man  of  Galilee  94,  Peter  and  Paul  Transformed 
94,  Example  of  Joseph  Smith  95,  Influence  of  Savior's  Mission  95, 
Great  World  Drama  96,  Thoughts  Determine  Destiny  96,  Corruption 
from  Within  97,  Christ  Our  Ideal  98. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   150 

A  President  Names  His  Counselors  150,  Seniority  in  the  Council  of 
Twelve  151,  Two  Counselors  Coordinate  151. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   157 

Responsibility  of  Leadership  157,  Need  for  Support  157,  Spirit  of 
Unity  158,  Help  of  Membership  158,  Example  of  Service  158,  Bless- 
ing and  Testimony  159. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  181 

President  Smith's  Funeral  181,  Purpose  of  Services  181,  Comfort  in 
Bereavement  182. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E.    60 

Despised  and  Rejected  60,  Wilfulness  of  Men  60,  Observance  of 
Commandments  61,  Condition  of  the  Nation  62,  Position  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  63. 

Pierce,  Elder  Arwell  L.   110 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers   138 

Priesthood  Meeting — General   66 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   39 

Visit  of  Young  Lady  39,  Signs  of  the  Times  40,  Gathering  of  Israel 
41,  Prophecies  Being  Fulfilled  41,  Signs  of  Second  Coming  42,  Mis- 
sionary System  43,  Nebuchadnezzar's  Dream  43,  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times  44. 

Richards,  Bishop  LeGrand   164 

Invocation,  President  Smith's  Funeral  164. 


188  INDEX 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  85,  128,  154 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L    85 

Essence  of  Worship  85,  Kinship  of  Spirits  85,  Fatherhood  of  God 
86,  Sovereignty  of  Savior  86,  Spiritual  Natures  87,  Respect  for 
Divine  Law  87,  Absence  of  Spiritual  Kinship  88,  Remedy  for  Sick 
World  88. 


Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  128 

Talent  for  Friendship  128. 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L  ,  154 

Friendship  of  Great  Man  154,  Devotion  of  Willard  Richards  154, 
President  J.  Reuben  Clark  155,  Confidence  in  Lord's  Promises  155, 
Testimony  of  Divine  Origin  155,  Appeal  for  Blessings  156. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G.   19 

Spirit  of  Uneasiness  19,  Need  for  Hope  and  Courage  20,  Calamities 
Ahead  20,  Courage  of  Faith  21,  Charge  to  Joshua  21,  Teachings  of 
Wilford  Woodruff  22,  Protection  of  Righteous  22,  Zion  a  Place  of 
Safety  23,  Hope  in  the  Future  23. 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting   115 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting   84 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G.   24 

Key  to  Happiness  24,  Presence  of  Good  and  Evil  25,  Desire  to  be 
Obedient  26,  Blessings  Follow  Obedience  26. 

Smith,  President  George  Albert — Funeral  Services   161 

Messages  of  Condolence  161,  Bishop  LeGrand  Richards  164,  Matthew 
Cowley  165,  Elbert  R.  Curtis  169,  Mr.  John  F.  Fitzpatrick  172,  Irene 
Jones  173,  Spencer  W.  Kimball  175,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
178,  President  David  O.  McKay  181,  Richard  L.  Evans  182,  Winslow 
Farr  Smith,  183. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   57 

Divine  Mission  of  Prophet  58,  Second  Coming  58,  All  May  Know 
the  Truth  59. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   152 

Pledge  of  Support  152,  Faith  and  Prayers  Needed  152,  Establish- 
ment of  Zion  152,  Testimony  153. 

Smith,  Elder  Winslow  Farr  183 

President  Smith's  Funeral  183,  Dedication  of  Grave  183. 

Solemn  Assembly   135 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma   129 

Sermons  of  President  Smith  129,  "Give  the  Lord  a  Chance"  130, 
Devotion  of  Latter-day  Saints  130. 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L.  116 

Loved  By  All  116,  God  at  the  Helm  117,  Men  of  Strength  118, 
Proselyting  in  Stakes  119,  Invitation  to  Come  and  See  119. 

Statistical  Report  ,   9 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers  138 


INDEX  189 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   89 

Third  Day — Solemn  Assembly  135 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   98 

Kindness  of  George  Albert  Smith  99,  Theme  of  Address  99,  Ex- 
amination of  Testimonies  100,  A  Unique  People  100,  Witnesses  to 
Prophet's  Work  101,  A  World  Message  102. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L.   66 

Hospitality  for  Ward  Teachers  66,  Security  Through  the  Gospel 
67,  Instruction  of  Children  67,  Significance  of  the  Priesthood  69, 
First  Great  Commandment  69,  Importance  of  Prayer  70,  Promises 
of  the  Lord  71. 

Wunderlich,  Elder  Jean    106 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E.   .108 

Gospel  Brings  Peace  108,  Peace  Through  Suffering  108,  Story  of 
Blind  Woman  109,  Exercise  of  Agency  109. 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   27 

Present-day  Conditions  27,  Inspired  Men  28,  A  Divine  Title  28, 
People  Need  the  Gospel  29,  Calling  of  the  Twelve  and  Seventy  30, 
Teachers  of  Righteousness  30. 

Zappey,  Elder  Cornelius  —  132 


IS  NURTURED  BY  EXPERIENCE  AND  TRUTH 

FAITH  PROMOTING  STORIES  $1.50 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

PIONEER  STORIES  $1.75 

Compiled  by  Preston  Nibley 

THE  MORMON  PIONEERS  $2.50 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

NAUVOO,  THE  BEAUTIFUL   $3.00 

By  E.  Cecil  McGavin 

SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH  OTHERS  $2.50 

By  President  George  Albert  Smith 

ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY  AND  ETERNAL  LIFE  $3.50 

By  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

SWEET  LOVE  REMEMBERED   $2.75 

By  Helen  Cortez  Stafford 

PROTESTORS  OF  CHRISTENDOM  $2.25 

By  James  L  Barker 

WORLD  RELIGIONS  IN  THE  LIGHT  OF  MORMONISM  $2.00 

By  Thomas  C.  Romney 

TRUTH  SEEKER  AND  MORMONISM  $1.00 

By  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

THE  CHURCH  IN  WAR  AND  PEACE  $1.00 

By  Stephen  L  Richard* 

FUNDAMENTALS  OF  RELIGION  $1.50 

By  Charles  A.  Callis 

FRUITS  OF  RELIGION  $1.75 

By  Franklin  L.  West 

YOUTH  AND  THE  CHURCH    $1.75 

By  Harold  B.  Lee 

CONSTANCY  AMID  CHANGE  $2.00 

By  Albert  E.  Bowen 

—  ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  - 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

"THE  BOOK-CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST" 

44  East  South  Temple  Street,  Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 


Enjoy  the  fellowship  of  Great  minds 

by  Reading  GOOD  Books 

A  book  b  an  invitation  to  share  the  thoughts  of  an  illuminating  mind.  Consider 
the  enrichment  one  will  receive  from  spending  quiet  hours  with  the  authors  of 
these  books: 

George  Albert  Smith      SHARING  THE  GOSPEL  WITH 

OTHERS   $2.50 

HeberJ.Grant  GOSPEL  STANDARDS   2.25 

David  O.  McKay  ANCIENT  APOSTLES   1.25 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.       ON  THE  WAY  TO  IMMORTALITY 

AND  ETERNAL  LIFE   3.50 

James  E.  Talmage         JESUS  THE  CHRIST   3.00 

ARTICLES  OF  FAITH   2.00 

Joseph  F.  Smith  GOSPEL  DOCTRINE    3.00 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith     ESSENTIALS  IN  CHURCH 

HISTORY    3.00 

TEACHINGS  OF  THE  PROPHET 

JOSEPH  SMITH   2.75 

LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH   2.75 

SIGNS  OF  THE  TIMES   1.25 

RESTORATION  OF  ALL  THINGS   1.75 

John  A.  Widtsoe  IN  SEARCH  OF  TRUTH   1.00 

HOW  THE  DESERT  WAS  TAMED.   1.50 

JOSEPH  SMITH,  SEEKER  AFTER 

TRUTH   3.50 

DISCOURSES  OF  BRIGHAM 

YOUNG    3.00 

Richard  L.  Evans  UNTO  THE  HILLS    2.00 

THIS  DAY  AND  ALWAYS   2.00 

"and  THE  SPOKEN  WORD"   2.00 

AT  THIS  SAME  HOUR   2.00 

-  ALL  PRICES  ARE  SUBJECT  TO  CHANGE  WITHOUT  NOTICE  — 

These  and  many  other  sources  of  inspiration  are  available  to  you  In  the  large 
stock  of  the 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

Publishers  of  Latter-day  Saint  Literature 

44  East  South  Temple  Street 
Salt  Lake  City  10,  Utah 
"THE  BOOK  CENTER  OF  THE  INTERMOUNTAIN  WEST' 


