iplllllllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllilllllllllll^ 

=  ^iiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiniiiiniiiiiitiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiitii  [iiiiimt  hiiiiiiiiiiiiiiihimi  iniiiiiiniiHiiininiMiiiii  itiiiiiiiniitLr  = 


II  EIGHTY-NINTH    SEMI-ANNUAL  II 

||  CONFERENCE  || 

=  ru  i  m  j  i  i  ti  1 1  it  it  i  ii  1 1 1 1 1 1  ■  1 1 1 1 1 1 1 11 1  it  1 1 1 1 1  m  1 1  it  1 1 1  it  i  ■  1 1 1  m  1 1 1  ii  1 1 1  ■  1 1 1 1  ^wth  T^TTTT1  ■■tiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiin  = 
§|  aiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniii  V-/A      ■*■  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiHiiuii'  = 

CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  1 1 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  |1 

mini  niiiiiiiiiimiiu  inniiniHiiiimiHiiiiiunmitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii  iiiiinmium  uiiiiniiiiiii  =  = 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE  AND  ASSEM-  j  | 

BLY   HALL,   SALT   LAKE   CITY,   UTAH,  I  j 

OCTOBER  4th,  5th  and  6th,  1918,  WITH  A  j  j 

FULL    REPORT    OF    THE    DISCOURSES  ll 


35  CENTS 

PUBLISHED  BY  THE  DESERET  NEWS 


=     itiiiiitiiiiiiiiiii(j|ii:i(ii(fiiiiciiiiiitiiii<[iiiiiiiiiiiiiiifiiiiitiiritiifEiiiiiiiriiriiriJiiJTiitiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiitTiiiiiiiiiii:iiiiiiiiiiiifiiii>'-,)iriii[tiil[i|I|I[TiirIItlftlIjl  ,=  ^ 

ll!llllllllllllllllllllll!lllllllllll!lllllll!llllllllllllll!l!lllll!IIIH 


So*- 

[new  BOOKSj 

I  IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM  I 

I  THE  RMY  OF  ETERNAL  LIFE— An  explanation  | 

|         of  the  doctrines  of  the  gospel,  written  especially  1 

1         for  young  folks,  by  Edwin  F.  Parry  75  cts.  I 

1  THE  MAN  OF  TOMORROW— By  Claude  Richards.  | 

1         A  discussion  of  Vocational  Success  with  the  boys  1 

I         of  today.    Beautifully  illustrated  $1.00  jj 

|  WHITNEY'S  POPULAR  HISTORY  OF  UTAH  j 

1         A  complete  and  up-to-date  History  in  one  volume.  I 

|         Over  600  pages,  250  views  and  portraits  of  the  j 

I         Founders  and  Builders  of  the  State.  | 

j         Large  Octavo  Vol.— Cloth  Embossed  $2.00  j 

|         Large  Octavo  Vol. — Half  Morocco                  2.50  j! 

|  JESUS  THE  CHRIST— By  Elder  James  E.  Talmage.  | 

§         A  study  of  the  Messiah  and  His  Mission  according  |j 

I         to  Holy  Scriptures  both  Ancient  and  Modern,  I 

1         Regular  Edition,  three-quarters  leather  $1.50  1 

|                  NEW  INDIA  PAPER  EDITION  | 

g  French  Morocco,  Divinity  Circuit,  red  under  I 

1         gold   edges,  headband  and  marker,   cloth  I 

|         lined   '.  $2.50  | 

|  French  Morocco,  Divinity  Circuit,  red  under  I 

|         edges,  headband  and  marker,  leather  lined  j 

|         to  edge   $3.00  | 

1  Turkey  Morocco,  Divinity  Circuit,  red  under  1 

1         gold  edges,  headband  and  marker  leather  I 

j         lined  to  edge                                                 3.50  1 

|  lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllillllllllN  | 

1  DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE  I 

No.  6  MAIN.  STREET     -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  | 

iiiniiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiniiiuiiuiu^ 


Eighty-Ninth  Semi- Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


FIRST  DAY 


The  Eighty-ninth  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  con- 
vened in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m.,  Friday, 
October  4,  1918,  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  presiding. 

AUTHORITIES  PRESENT. 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund,  and 
Charles  W.  Penrose  ;  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  Heber  J. 
Grant,  Rudger  Clawson,*  George 
Albert  Smith,*  Orson  F.  Whitney, 
David  O.  McKay,  Anthony  W. 
Ivins,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  James 
E.  Talmage,  Stephen  L.  Richards 
and  Richard  R.  Lyman.  Presiding 
Patriarch  Hyrum  G.  Smith ;  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  Seymour 
B.  Young,t  J.  Golden  Kimball, 
Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  Mc- 
Murrin,  and  Charles  H.  Hart  ;f  of 

*Reed  Smoot  was  absent  in  Wash- 
ington; and  George  F.  Richards, 
presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 

tBrigham  H.  Roberts  was  absent  on 
duty  in  France  as  Chaplain  of  the 
145th  Held  Artillery.  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  detained  by  his  duties  in  the 
University  of  Utah,  was  present  at 
subsequent  meetings. 


the  Presiding  Bishopric,  Charles  W. 
Nibley,  David  A.  Smith  and  John 
Wells.  Assistant  Historians,  An- 
drew Jenson,  and  A.  William  Lund. 
There  were  also  a  large  number  of 
Presidents  of  stakes  with  their 
counselors,  Patriarchs,  Bishops  of 
wards,  and  numerous  other  promi- 
nent men  and  women  representing 
various  quorums  and  organizations 
of  the  Church. 

The  following  Presidents  of  Mis- 
sions were  in  attendance  :  Walter  P. 
Monson,  Eastern  States  ;  Samuel  O. 
Bennion,  Central  States ;  German 
E.  Ellsworth,  Northern  States ; 
John  L.  Herrick,  Western  States ; 
Joseph  E.  Robinson,  California; 
Benjamin  Goddard,  Bureau  of  In- 
formation, Temple  Block. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  called 
the  large  congregation  to  order. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's 
glad  morning." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  President 
Seymour  B.  Young,  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy. 

A  duet:  "O  God,  our  help  in 
ages  past,"  was  sung  by  Marie  Ed- 
dington  and  Madeline  Young. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

As  most  of  you,  I  suppose,  are  aware,  I  have  been  undergoing  a 
siege  of  very  serious  illness  for  the  last  five  months.  It  would  be  im- 
possible for  me,  on  this  occasion,  to  occupy  sufficient  time  to  express  the 
desires  of  my  heart  and  my  feelings,  as  I  would  desire  to  express  them 
to  you,  but  1  felt  that  it  was  my  duty,  if  possible,  to  be  present  and  take 
some  little  part  this  morning  in  the  opening  session  of  this  eighty-ninth 
Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  ' 

CLEAR  OF  MIND  THOUGH  WEAK  IN  BODY 

For  more  than  seventy  years  I  have  been  a  worker  in  this  cause 
with  you  and  your  fathers  and  progenitors,  pioneers  who  broke  the  way 
into  these  valleys  of  the  mountains;  and  my  heart  is  just  as  firmly 
set  with  you  today  as  it  ever  has  been.  Although  somewhat  weakened 
in  body,  my  mind  is  clear  with  reference  to  my  duty,  and  with  reference 
to  the  duties  and  responsibilities  that  rest  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints ; 
and  I  am  ever  anxious  for  the  progress  of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  for  the 
prosperity  of  the  people  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  throughout  the  world.  I  am  as  anxious  as  I  ever  have  been,  and 
as  earnest  in  my  desires  that  Zion  shall  prosper,  -and  that  the  Lord  shall 
favor  his  people  and  magnify  them  in  his  sight,  and  in  the  knowledge 
and  understanding  of  the  intelligent  people  of  all  the  world. 

CONTINUOUS  COMMUNICATION  WITH  THE  SPIRIT  OF  THE  LORD 

I  will  not,  I  dare  not,  attempt  to  enter  upon  many  things  that  are 
resting  upon  my  mind  this  morning,  and  I  shall  postpone  until  some 
future  time,  the  Lord  being  willing,  my  attempt  to  tell  you  some  of  the 
things  that  are  in  my  mind,  and  that  dwell  in  my  heart.  I  have  not  lived 
alone  these  five  months.  I  have  dwelt  in  the  spirit  of  prayer,  of  suppli- 
cation, of  faith  and  of  determination ;  and  I  have  had  my  communica- 
tion with  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  continuously ;  and  I  am  glad  to  say  to  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  a  happy  meeting  this  morning  for  me 
to  have  the  privilege  of  joining  with  you  in  the  opening  of  this  eighty- 
ninth  Semi-annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 

God  Almighty  bless  you  and  those  who  shall  address  you,  and  Pres- 
ident Lund,  who  will  continue  in  charge  of  the  services,  in  my  absence, 
at  least ;  and  all  who  take  part  in  the  services  of  this  conference,  that  you 
may  have  a  time  of  rejoicing  and  of  great  reward. 

SOME  CURRENT  HISTORY. 

I  have  drawn  a  few  items,  by  request,  from  the  current  events  of  the 
Church  and  its  history,  that  I  think  will  be  interesting  to  be  read  by  our 
people  in  the  Deseret  News,  this  evening,  and  for  thifs  reason  I  will  sub- 
mit these  items  to  the  clerk  to  be  handed  over  to  the  Deseret  News  for 
publication. 

Hoping  that  you  will  pardon  my  effort  to  say  anything  under  so  un- 
favorable circumstances  to  myself,  I  bless  you  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH.  3 

Jesus  Christ,  and  invoke  his  favor  and  blessing  and  protection  upon  you 
now  and  forever.  Amen. 

At  the  close  of  President  Smith's  remarks  the  organist  struck  a  chord 
of  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  prophet."  The  congregation  arose  in 
unison,  and  without  announcement,  and  under  strong  emotion,  sang  that 
sacred  song  so  dear  to  the  Saints. 

The  following  are  the  items  of  current  history  referred  to  in  Presi- 
dent Smith's  remarks : 

TITHING 

We  have  been  blessed  with  a  most  abundant  harvest  in  all  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  the  Church.  The  Lord  has  greatly  blessed  the  people,  and 
it  is  gratifying  to  note  that  our  tithing  records  show  an  increase  in  tithing 
paid  for  the  first  nine  months  of  this  year  over  the  corresponding-  months 
of  1917. 

PRIESTHOOD  ACTIVITIES 

In  consequence  of  so  many  of  our  young  men  being  drafted  into  the 
war,  the  activities  of  our  quorums  of  the  priesthood,  especially  of  the 
Elders,  Priests  and  Teachers  quorums,  are  very  much  impaired.  In  some 
wards  nearly  every  priest  and  teacher  of  draft  age  is  in  the  war.  The 
quorums  have  been  seriously  depleted,  and  a  corresponding  effect  has 
also  been  felt  in  the  Sunday  School  and  Y.  M.  M.  I.  A. 

MISSIONARY  WORK 

The  extension  of  the  draft  age  has  also  affected  our  missionary  work, 
and  we  are  not  now  sending  missionaries  out  who  are  within  the  draft  age. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  WHEAT 

Our  Relief  Societies  were  called  on,  just  prior  to  harvest  time  of 
this  year,  to  supply  the  government  with  all  the  wheat  they  had  stored 
up  for  years.  Of  course,  they  promptly  and  loyally  complied  with  the 
request,  and  the  wheat  has  been  taken  over  by  the  government  and  used 
to  help  meet  the  demand  made  upon  this  country  by  our  allies.  The 
money  received  for  this  wheat  is  a  trust  fund,  and  should  be  kept  in  the 
banks,  and  when  the  proper  time  arrives,  used  to  purchase  wheat  to  be 
saved  up  against  another  time  of  need.  The  policy  inaugurated  by  the 
leaders  of  the  Church  years  ago  with  reference  to  this  matter  is  a  sound 
policy  and  should  be  continued. 

TEMPLES 

The  Hawaiian  temple  is  now  nearing  completion.  Substantial  prog- 
ress is  being  made  with  the  Cardston  temple.  The  building  is  enclosed, 
and  the  finishing  work  now  in  process. 

MILITARY  SERVICE 

We  believe  that  our  brethren  who  have  answered  the  call  of  their 
Country  and  entered  the  war  should  have  their  names  on  record  in  the 
Church,  and  Bishops  should  enter  every  member  of  their  ward  who  is  in 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 

the  military  service  of  the  United  States  or  its  allies  on  the  tithing  record, 
as  this  record  is  a  roll  of  honor.  Further  details  will  be  given  by  the 
Presiding  Bishopric. 

REORGANIZATION  OF  THE  PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

Bishop  Orrin  P.  Miller,  first  counselor  to  Presiding  Bishop  C.  W. 
Nibley,  passed  away  on  July  7,  1918,  after  a  long  and  severe  illness. 
On  July  18,  Bishop  David  A.  Smith  was  set  apart  as  first  counselor,  and 
Elder  John  Wells  ordained  a  Bishop  and  set  apart  as  second  counselor  to 
Presiding  Bishop  C.  W.  Nibley. 

DEATHS 

Since  our  last  conference  Bishop  William  Fairbourn,  of  Crescent 
Ward,  Jordan  stake,  has  passed  away ;  and  Marion  A.  Woolley,  of  Kanab 
stake,  and  George  E.  Giles,  of  Provo,  Utah,  laboring  in  the  Australian 
and  Samoan  mission  fields  respectively,  also  passed  away. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

The  following  new  wards  have  been  organized  since  our  last  con- 
ference : 

Redcliffe,  Utah,  Strawberry  and  Alterra  wards,  in  Duchesne  stake; 
Veyo  and  Central,  in  St.  George  stake;  Wandamere,  in  Granite  stake; 
Lark,  in  Jordan  stake;  Topaz,  in  Portneuf  stake,  and  Pegram  Branch 
in  Montpelier  stake. 

PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

I  believe  I  can  answer  for  all  present  that  we  are  most  happy  to  have 
the  privilege  to  see  our  beloved  President  with  us  again.  I  know  that 
he  has  the  prayers  of  his  people  who  are  asking  the  Lord  to  restore  him, 
to  strengthen  him  and  to  relieve  him  of  his  sickness,  and  I  hope  that  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints  will  be  heard  in  his  behalf,  that  we  may  again  see 
him  able  to  be  with  us,  and  again  sit  under  his  voice  and  hear  his  inspired 
instructions  to  us.    The  Lord  bless  President  Smith  and  make  him  well. 

ZION  IS  PROSPERING 

I  am  glad  this  morning  to  see  this  sea  of  faces  beaming  with  joy  at 
beholding  our  President  in  the  conference,  and  I  believe  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  his  servants  who  shall  address  us  this  day.  We  can  bring  you  the 
glad  tidings  that  Zion  is  prospering,  that  the  work  is  going  forward,  and, 
I  believe  that  the  Saints  are  making  headway,  both  spiritually  and  tem- 
porally. 

I  received  a  few  notes  from  Brother  Wells,  of  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric. He  tells  us  there  has  been  an  increase  in  the  births,  blessings  and  bap- ' 
tisms  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  compared  with  the  corresponding  period  of 
the  previous  year.  A  larger  number  of  recommends  for  the  temples  have 
been  issued  for  the  first  six  months  of  this  year  than  in  the  same  length 
of  time  of  any  previous  year.    During  the  six  months  ending  June  30, 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 


5 


there  were  performed  in  the  temples  119,166  baptisms,  and  119,400 
endowments,  sealings  and  other  ordinances. 

We  are  pleased  to  see  the  people  flocking  to  the  temples.  We  know 
that  they  do  this  for  an  unselfish  purpose.  They  go  there  to  labor  for 
others,  and  spend  their  means  to  get  to  the  temples,  and  yet  I  believe  that 
all  who  attend  to  this  work  feel  that  they  are  paid  in  the  present,  though 
there  will  be  a  great  reward  for  them  in  the  future,  when  they  shall  meet 
their  ancestors  and  friends,  and  be  able  to  tell  them  what  they  have  done 
for  them  in  the  temples.  In  working  for  others  in  the  temples  they  them- 
selves get  strengthened  in  their  faith.  They  feel  that  thy  are  indeed  help- 
ers in  the  great  work  of  salvation.  Our  Redeemer  is  the  Author  of  the 
plan  of  salvation,  he  has  given  his  life  for  us  all,  and  has  accomplished  and 
finished  the  work  given  him  by  his  Father  for  the  redemption  of  all  his 
children  who  are  willing  to  believe  in  him  as  the  Savior  of  the  world.  His 
is  the  only  name  given  whereby  salvation  can  be  obtained.  We  are  helping 
in  this  great  work  by  doing  for  others  that  which  they  cannot  do  for  them- 
selves in  their  present  condition.  Millions  of  spirits  who  have  occupied 
tabernacles  upon  the  earth  have  not  had  the  opportunity  of  hearing  the 
voice  of  the  servants  of  God,  and  have  not  even  heard  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ ;  but  the  plan  of  salvation,  as  framed  in  the  eternal  councils,  was  so 
broad  that  it  provides  the  means  of  redemption  for  every  soul  that  has 
lived  or  shall  live  upon  this  earth,  who  will  accept  its  conditions. 

The  subject  of  doing  work  for  the  dead  was  revealed  very  early  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph.  In  the  first  visit  made  to  him  by  the  angel,  when 
Joseph  was  about  eighteen  years  old,  the  angel  explained  the  scriptures 
to  him  and  quoted  the  last  chapter  in  the  Old  Testament,  where  Malachi 
refers  to  the  coming  of  Elijah  who  should  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers 
to  the  children,  and  the  children's  hearts  to  the  fathers.  Joseph  may  not 
have  fully  understood  it  then,  but  before  his  death  the  spirit  worked  upon 
him  to  make  things  plain,  and  to  give  the  keys  of  this  great  principle  to 
his  fellow  laborers,  the  apostles.  And  he  was  so  impressed  with  the  work 
that  he  calls  it  the  "most  glorious  of  all  subjects  belonging  to  the  everlast- 
ing gospel."  So  I  am  glad  to  state  to  you  that  there  has  been  progress 
in  this  matter ;  that  the  Saints  are  influenced  by  the  spirit  of  salvation  for 
the  dead,  and  are  accomplishing  a  great  work  in  the  temples. 

ATTENDANCE  AT  SACRAMENT  MEETINGS 

There  has  been  a  larger  attendance  at  sacrament  meetings  in  the  six 
months  ending  June  30,  than  during  any  other  similar  period  since  reports 
were  kept.  We  are  pleased  to  hear  this,  and  we  want  to  say  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  none  of  them  should  be  satisfied  to  stay  at  home  and  not 
attend  the  sacrament  meetings.  Don't  feel  that  you  can  get  along  just  as 
well  without  as  with  attendance  at  these  meetings.  It  is  a  great  loss  to 
those  who  stay  away.  You  go  there  to  worship  God,  to  be  instructed  in 
his  ways,  and  to  renew  your  covenants  with  him.  In  partaking  of  the 
sacrament  you  make  the  promise  that  you  will  take  upon  you  the  name  of 
the  Son  of  God,  that  you  will  always  remember  him  and -keep  his  com- 
mandments which  he  has  given  you,  and  then  the  promise  is  that  you 


6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  have  his  Spirit  to  be  with  you.  You  cannot  progress  spiritually  if  you 
do  not  partake  of  these  holy  things,  and  doing  it  will  strengthen  and  in- 
spire you  during  the  week  days;  and,  therefore,  let  us  all  feel  that  it  is 
our  duty  to  attend  sacrament  meetings  and  thereby  help  to  build  up  one 
another  in  our  holy  faith. 

PRIESTHOOD  MEETING  AND  MILITARY  SERVICE  ' 

The  attendance  at  the  weekly  priesthood  meetings  has  fallen  off,  in 
consequence  of  a  large  number  being  in  military  service.  Many  of  our 
boys  who  hold  the  priesthood  have  been  called  to  go  in  defense  of  our 
Country.  Willingly  they  have  accepted  the  call,  and,  I  believe  that  they 
will  do  honor  to  their  parents  by  noble  devotion  to  the  cause  of  their 
Country,  by  their  righteous  living,  and  by  the  example  they  will  show  to 
others.  We  pray  that  God  will  be  with  them,  shield  and  protect  them, 
and  that  we  may  have  the  joy  to  see  them  come  back  pure  and  good, 
as  they  left  us. 

There  are  fifty-six  thousand  holding  the  priesthood.  Of  these  there 
are  fifteen  thousand  who  are  not  able  to  do  much  active  labor,  mostly  on 
account  of 'age,  infirmity  or  sickness,  or  by  reason  of  their  occupation  or 
absence  from  home  on  military  service. 

I  thought  these  few  items  would  be  interesting  to  us  all.  They  were 
just  handed  to  me. 

THE  WORK  IN  THE  MISSIONS 

Our  missionary  work,  brethren  and  sisters,  is  still  progressing.  In  the 
different  missions  of  the  United  States,  a  good  work  is  being  done.  We 
still  have  a  goodly  number  laboring  in  these  missions,  and  they  are  meet- 
ing with  success  and  performing  their  labors  to  the  satisfaction  of  their 
presidents.  In  the  neutral  countries,  in  Europe,  we  are  hindered  some- 
what in  keeping  up  the  usual  number  of  missionaries.  At  present  we 
have  very  few  in  the  Scandinavian  countries  and  in  Holland,  and  we 
haven't  any  over  in  Turkey.  The  elders  fyave  been  withdrawn  from  there 
on  account  of  the  unsafety  of  strangers,  and  especially  Americans,  in  that 
country.  In  Norway,  Denmark,  and  Sweden,  we  have  but  thirteen  mis- 
sionaries left,  where  we  used  to  have  a  hundred  or  more.  Much  work, 
therefore,  is  resting  upon  these  few  men,  and  most  of  them  have  been 
longer  than  usual  in  the  missionary  field.  The  expenses  now  are  double 
what  they  used  to  be,  and  this  makes  it  quite  hard  for  them  to  meet  the 
cost  of  living,  but  they  are  willing  to  do  what  they  can  to  keep  up  the 
work.  At  present  the  governments  of  these  countries  do  not  want  aliens 
to  come  and  take  up  residence  with  them.  I  suppose  the  reason  for  this  is 
mostly  of  an  economic  nature.  They  want  to  save  provisions  at  home,  and 
not  have  aliens  come  from  other  countries  to  settle  there  and  thus  increase 
their  burdens.  I  do  not  think  it  is  on  account  of  their  being  "Mormons" 
that  our  elders  cannot  be  admitted.  I  believe  they  are  just  as  free  to  come 
as  other  people,  but  when  .one  comes  into  a  city  in  Norway,  he  is  only 
allowed  to  stay  two  or  three  days,  and  then  he  must  travel  further.  This 
would  prevent  our  missionaries  from  taking  charge  of  branches  and  con- 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND 


7 


ferences.  We  hope  that  some  arrangement  can  be  made  whereby  a  few 
experienced  elders  may  be  permitted  to  go  there  and  take  charge  of  the 
work.  We  can  use  quite  a  number  of  our  local  men  there  to  labor  in  the 
work,  but  very  few  of  them  are  able  to  support  themselves  like  our  mis- 
sionaries from  home  do,  hence  we  are  limited  in  using  many  of  them,  but 
the  work  will  go  ahead.  I  remember  the  time  when  we  had  no  elders  from 
Zion  laboring  with  us  in  Scandinavia,  and  yet  the  work  progressed.  The 
Lord  cannot  be  stayed  in  carrying  out  his  purposes. 

In  Australia  and  New  Zealand  we  were  prohibited  from  sending  more 
elders  there,  but  this  has  been  modified.  The  matter  has  been  taken  up  in 
Washington  with  the  ambassadors  from  those  countries,  and  they  have 
given  us  permission  to  send  elders  to  replace  those  who  are  released,  so 
that  we  can  keep  up  the  work  on  that  side  of  the  globe.  On  the  islands 
of  the  sea  we  have  not  been  hindered  much,  and  the  work  is  progressing 
there.  Our  elders  who  go  there  are  a  blessing  to  the  natives,  not  only  in 
preaching  and  in  spiritual  matters,  but  also  in  temporal  things.  For  in- 
stance, in  Tahiti,  at  the  pearl-fishing  season,  it  has  been  the  custom  for 
the  natives  to  get  their  supplies  from  the  merchants  who  allow  them  to 
keep  an  open  account.  The  natives  are  not  careful  in  their  buying  and 
often  find  their  indebtedness  far  in  excess  of  their  wages,  and  therefore 
are  under  the  necessity  of  working  another  season  to  pay  the  bills  due  their 
creditors,  and  then  again  obtain  their  supplies  on  credit.  President  Ern- 
est Rossiter,  who  presides  over  the  members  of  our  Church  in  Tahiti,  and 
some  of  the  elders  laboring  there,  now  accompany  those  of  our  people  who 
are  engaged  in  diving  for  the  pearl  oysters.  They  encourage  the  natives 
not  to  run  in  debt,  and  they  help  them  to  get  their  supplies  at  wholesale 
rates.  The  consequence  has  been  that  when  the  fishing  season  is  over  they 
draw  their  wages  and  are  no  longer  in  the  bondage  of  debt.  The  elders 
hold  meetings  and  encourage  their  members  to  resist  temptations  and  live 
lives  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Workers,  not  members  of  the  Church,  see  the 
beneficial  results  of  this  move  and  are  trying  to  follow  the  same  course. 
The  same  way  on  other  islands,  the  Elders  are  trying  to  teach  the  people 
a  better  way  of  living,  temporally  as  well  as  spiritually. 

THE  TEMPLE  BLOCK  MISSION 

We  have  one  of  the  best  mission  fields  right  here  on  this  temple  block 
where  Brother  Goddard  and  his  assistants  are  laboring  diligently  in  ex- 
plaining the  principles  to  tourists  who  come  here  to  see  what  the  "'Mor- 
mons" have  done  and  learn  what  they  believe.  They  ask  many  questions, 
which  guides  are  always  ready  to  answer  in  explanation  of  our  belief,  and 
many  of  them  go  away  without  the  prejudice  against  us  which  they  enter- 
tained when  they  came.  We  have  found  the  effect  of  this  temple  block 
service  in  the  different  missions.  When  our  elders  chance  to  enter  the 
homes  of  these  visitors  they  have  invited  them  in,  treated  them  kindly,  and 
told  them  what  a  splendid  time  they  had  in  Salt  Lake  City,  and  how 
pleased  they  were  to  hear  the  gospel  explained  to  them  by  our  guides.  In 
this  tabernacle  we  have  recitals  during  the  summer.  Brother  McClellan 
and  his  assistant  organists  are  doing  a  splendid  work  here.    People  come 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  listen  to  the  great  organ,  they  hear  the  beautiful  music,  and  many  have 
been  moved  even  to  tears.  So  that  when  they  go  away  they  cannot  be- 
lieve the  stories  that  the  "Mormons"  are  such  an  ignorant,  uncultured 
people  as  some  have  tried  to  portray  them.  They  remember  with  pleas- 
ure what  has  been  done  for  them. 

LABORS  OF  LADY  MISSIONARIES 

In  the  mission  fields,  now  that  so  many  of  our  young  men  have  had 
to  come  home  and  go  into  the  army,  we  have  been  assisted  very  much  by 
our  young  women,  who  have  gone  out  and  filled  missions.  They  also  are 
successful  in  tracting,  in  meeting  the  people  and  getting  into  their  homes. 
Those  who  may  be  afraid  of  the  elders,  cannot  believe  that  these  innocent 
girls  can  come  for  any  purpose  of  deceiving,  and  they  are  willing  to  listen 
to  them,  and  many  have  been  brought  to  believe  in  the  truth  by  the  simple 
testimonies  borne  by  these  young  women  who  have  accepted  missions. 
The  Lord  bless  them  and  make  them  successful  in  their  labors. 

i 

OUR  DUTY  IN  WARNING  AND  HELPING  TO  WARN 

This  duty  of  informing  the  world  concerning  our  belief  and  warning 
them  of  what  is  coming,  rests  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints.  If  you  read 
the  33rd  chapter  of  Ezekiel,  you  can  see  what  the  Lord  says  against  those 
who  are  watchmen  and  not  performing  their  duties.  If  the  people  are 
warned  and  do  not  heed  the  warning,  the  Lord  says  their  blood  will  be 
upon  themselves,  but  if  they  are  not  warned  and  the  watchman  has  been 
careless  in  failing  to  give  them  the  warning,  the  blood  will  be  on  his  skirts. 
Now,  we  elders  of  Israel  do  not  want  to  incur  any  blame  or  punishment 
because  of  neglect  of  duties  in  regard  to  informing'  the  wrorld.  We  can- 
not send  our  young  men.  We  will  be  obliged  therefore  to  call  on  our 
experienced  elders,  many  of  whom  have  performed  excellent  missions 
before.  When  we  ask  them  to  go  today  we  find  in  some  cases  that  their 
circumstances  are  such  that  they  cannot  go.  But  we  have  a  great  many 
who  have  not  been  on  missions,  and  perhaps  are  not  suitable  for  mission- 
ary life,  but  who  could  do  their  duty  by  helping  some  of  these  able  and 
experienced  men  to  go  and  preach  the  gospel.  It  would  not  cost  much  ; 
it  is  a  good  way  of  using  the  mammon  of  unrighteousness  to  make  friends 
for  us  hereafter,  as  alluded  to  by  Jesus.  Why,  in  early  days  of  the  Church 
when  we  sent  men  out  as  missionaries,  they  went  without  purse  or  scrip. 
I  remember  two  elders  who  were  sent  to  a  large  city  in  Norway ;  one  was  a 
g'ood  speaker,  the  other  was  not  much  of  a  speaker,  but  he  was  a  good 
tailor.  He  took  work  and  he  supported  his  fellow  missionary,  and  they 
laid  the  foundation  of  a  splendid  branch,  and  so  wherever  the  elders  were 
sent  they  were  willing  to  work  for  the  furtherance  of  the  cause,  they 
would  labor  with  their  hands  and  give  all  they  made  to  help  in  this  work. 
However,  we  do  not  go  so  far  as  this  at  home.  Many  of  our  brethren 
who  have  been  blessed  temporally  would  feel  more  blessed  if  they  would 
use  some  of  their  means  to  have  a  good  elder  go  on. a  mission  and  labor 
where  we  are  under  the  necessity  of  sending  missionaries. 


PRESIDENT  ANTHON  H.  LUND  9 

THE  ADVATAGES  AND  BLESSINGS  OF  CHURCH  GATHERINGS 

Now,  brethren,  I  am  afraid  my  voice  doesn't  reach  you  all.  I  am  glad 
to  see  this  congregation.  I  know  that  you  came  to  learn  more  of  the 
ways  of  the  Lord  and  to  worship  him.  What  a  splendid  thing  it  was  that  ■ 
the  Lord  in  the  very  opening  revelation  in  April,  1830,  gave  us  the  com- 
mand, that  we  should  meet  in  conference  every  three  months,  or  at  times 
appointed.  We  come  together,  we  meet  friends,  we  talk  over  past  times ; 
those  who  are  a  little  wayward  get  strengthened  and  encouraged  to  take 
a  right  course,  and  the  Saints  rejoice  in  learning  what  the  Church  is  do- 
ing, and  to  know  that  they  are  in  accord  with  the  spirit  of  the  work. 

When  the  tribes  of  Israel  rebelled  in  the  days  of  Rehoboam  they  fol- 
lowed Jeroboam,  who  led  them  into  idolatry.  A  few  years  before,  they  had 
helped  to  build  that  beautiful  temple,  Solomon's  temple,  and  they  had  re- 
joiced in  going  there.  It  was  a  command  of  God  that  they  should  go 
every  year  and  make  an  offering  in  the  temple  of  the  Lord.  Jeroboam 
j-ealized  what  that  meant.  If  his  subjects  should  go  to  Jerusalem,  they 
would  soon  go  back  again  and  join  with  the  two  tribes  in  their  worship, 
and  his  power  over  them  would  be  lost,  so  he  established  places  of  wor- 
ship on  mountains  in  his  own  country  to  keep  them  away  from  the  temple, 
of  God  in  Jerusalem. 

Now,  we  love  to  see  our  people  come  here  to  our  conferences,  and  we 
know  that  they  feel  blessed  in  coming,  and  that  when  they  return  home 
the  spirit  of  the  conference  will  follow  them. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  help  us  to  be  faithful  and  true  in 
our  covenants  with  the  Lord,  and  to  so  live  that  when  life  is  ended  we 
may  feel  that  we  have  done  the  best  we  have  understood,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 

It  would  be  .very  difficult  for  me,  and  I  believe  for  any  one  of  our 
brethren  to  express  the  joy  and  gratitude  which  well  up  in  our  hearts 
this  morning  in  beholding  the  form  and  features  and  hearing  the  voice 
of  our  beloved  president. 

THE  PEOPLE'S  LOVE  FOR  PRESIDENT  SMITH 

We  have  sympathized  with  him  in  his  affliction,  and  have  earnestly 
desired  that  he  might  be  touched  by  the  healing  power  of  God,  so  that 
his  days  might  be  prolonged  on  the  earth,  and  that  he  might  be  spared 
to  be  with  us  again  to  give  us  instructions,  to  preside  over  the  Church 
and  all  its  affairs,  as  he  has  done  so  well  in  the  past ;  and  the  Lord 
has  heard  our  prayers,  to  the  extent,  at  least,  that  he  is  present  with  us 
this  morning.  This  has  been  the  desire  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  every- 
where, I  believe  also,  the  desire  of  many  people  who  are  not  members 
of  our  Church.  They  have  learned  to  love  and  respect  President  Smith, 
and  I  have  heard  from  many  of  them  the  earnest  wish  that  he  might 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


fully  recover.  Wc  value  him  not  only  as  a  man  clothed  upon  with  the 
Holy  Priesthood  and  holding  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of  God  on  the 
earth,  but  we  love  him  for  himself ;  and  those  of  us  who  have  been  with 
him  so  much  in  the  past  and  know  of  his  labors  from  boyhood  up  to 
the  present  time,  feel  very  thankful  this  morning  to  God  that  he  is 
with  us,  and  hope  and  desire  that  his  days  may  be  still  prolonged,  that 
he  may  be  able  to  accomplish  all  that  he  has  in  his  heart  to  do,  and 
that  we  may  be  blessed  with  his  presence  and  teachings. 

A  REPRESENTATIVE  CONGREGATION 

This  congregation  this  morning  and  those  who  will  be  here  during 
the  sessions  of  this  conference  are  representative  people.  We  represent 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in  all  the  world.  We 
have  people  here  from  all  the  stakes  of  Zion,  from  the  various  missions 
abroad,  acting  in  different  capacities  where  they  dwell,  and  they  are  here 
to  represent  those  among  whom  they  live  as  well  as  being  present  them- 
selves. And  this  is  a  very  important  gathering.  I  hope  we  will  all  hear 
with  prayerful  hearts  and  recipient  souls,  so  that  we  may  receive  the  word 
of  the  Lord  through  our  faith,  and  that  what  we  hear  we  may  remember, 
and  that  the  spirit  of  it,  if  not  the  actual  words,  may  be  carried  to  every 
part  of  the  Church  where  these  representative  people  reside. 

OUR  WORK  DIFFERENT  FROM  OTHER  CHURCH  ORGANIZATIONS 

This  work  in  which  we  are  engaged  is  altogether  different  in  many 
respects  from  any  other  religious  organization  in  the  world.  This  we 
should  feel  in  our  hearts,  and  the  testimony  we  have  received  concern- 
ing it  should  have  weight  upon  our  minds.  Every  person  who  has  been 
baptized  into  this  Church  and  confirmed  as  a  member,  and  especially  those 
who  have  been  ordained  to  any  office  in  the  priesthood,  have  a  mission 
to  perform  in  the  world.  This  gospel  is  to  be  sent  to  every  nation  and 
kindred  and  tongue-  and  people.  This  was  the  voice  of  the  angel  that 
came  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  his  boyhood  in  revealing  the  place  where 
the  plates  were,  the  language  of  which  has  been  translated  into  English 
and  called  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  have  the  gospel  to  present  to  the 
world,  to  all  nations,  to  every  class  and  kind  of  people,  to  the  Christian 
world  and  to  the  heathen  world,  to  the  preachers  as  well  as  to  the  people. 
While  we  do  not  despise  the  teachings  of  good  men  in  the  various  Chris- 
tian sects  or  in  the  various  sects  in  heathendom,  when  they  endeavor  to 
enlighten  the  minds  of  mankind,  when  they  desire  to  benefit  the  people, 
but  feel  in  our  hearts  to  bless  them  so  far  as  they  are  sincere  and  earnest 
in  their  work;  at  the  same  time,  we  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that 
this  organization  to  which  we  belong,  of  which  we  are  members  and 
should  be  active  workers  in,  is  the  only  Church  upon  the  face  of  earth 
with  which  the  Lord  has  declared  he  is  pleased,  well  pleased,  when  the 
people  do  right,  that  this  is  the  only  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  on  the  face 
of  the  earth.  There  could  not  be  a  dozen  or  even  two  different  churches 
of  Christ.    There  could  not  be  two  different  religions  from  God,  the 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE 


11 


Father.  Our  common  sense  tells  us  this,  if  there'  were  no  particular  reve- 
lations to  that  effect. 

THE  MISSION  OF  THE  CHURCH 

We  should  understand  that  we  are  called  of  God  to  be  sei  ✓ants  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to  follow  in  his  footsteps  as  far  as  we  are  able  to 
do  so;  that  we  should  embody  his  character,  that  we  should  observe  the 
law  of  obedience  to  God  as  he  observed  it ;  understand  that  we  came 
here  not  to  do  our  own  will  unless  it  be  like  God's  will,  in  conformity 
therewith,  in  harmony  with  him  and  his  purposes ;  that  we  came  here 
for  this  purpose,  to  learn  the  ways  of  God  and  to  walk  in  the  path  that 
he  marks  out  for  us.  And  the  Church  is  organized  to  that  end,  to  carry 
and  to  send  forth  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the  gospel  of  salvation,  to 
all  peoples  upon  the  face,  of  the  earth,  to  every  country,  to  the  islands 
of  the  sea,  the  continents,  and  every  part  of  this  globe  where  there  are 
people  dwelling.  This  is  our  mission,  and  those  of  us  who  cannot  go 
there  should  do  everything  in  our  power  with  all  our  hearts  to  send  the 
gospel  there ;  and,  as  President  Lund  has  intimated  to  us  this  morning, 
when  able  men,  men  who  are  able  to  carry  this  gospel  and  to  preach  it  in 
plainness,  by  authority  and  in  the  power  of  God,  are  not  able  financially 
to  perform  this  duty,  they  should  be  aided  by  their  brethren  and  sisters 
at  home.  We  have  proven  how  easy  it  is  comparatiyely  to  raise  funds 
for  different  purposes,  worthy  purposes.  Israel  has  responded  to  the  call 
of  the  Nation.  This  is  right,  part  of  our  duty,  but  it  just  shows  to  us 
what  we  can  do  when  we  get  the  spirit  of  a  work;  and  there  are  means 
enough  that  can  be  raised  from  the  ranks  of  Israel  to  send  just  as  many 
elders  as  we  are  able  to  send  in  these  times  at  any  rate,  abroad  in  the 
world  and  sustain  them  or  sustain  their  families  at  home  while  they  are 
away. 

THE  DUTY  OF  THE  SEVENTIES 

I  might  say  that  this  work  ought  to,  in  my  opinion,  devolve  largely 
upon  the  different  quorums  of  seventies  in  the  Church.  This  is  a  won- 
derful organization  in  every  respect,  and  the  seventies,  those  elders  who 
.are  called  to  compose  quorums  of  seventies,  elders  presided  over  each  one 
by  seven  of  its  number,  should  have  it  in  their  hearts  to  send  this  gospel 
to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  That  is  what  they  are  for ;  that  is  their  special 
calling.  Every  elder  has  received  authority  from  God  to  hold  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  and  to  be  a  minister  of  the  Most  High,  whether  he  be 
a  standing  minister  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  or  is  sent  forth  by  proper  au- 
thority to  different  parts  in  the  world ;  but  especially  the  seventies  in  the 
Church  are  called  and  appointed  and  ordained  to  preach  the  gospel  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth  under  the  direction  of  the  Twelve  apostles. 

This  is  part  of  the  system  to  which  we  belong.  What  a  beautiful 
system  it  is !  Provision  made  in  it  for  carrying  the  gospel  abroad  and 
for  preaching  to  the  people  at  home,  and  for  setting  in  order  the  people 
in  all  the  different  parts  of  Zion,  and  for  the  establishment  of  the  pur- 
poses of  the  Almighty,  all  in  perfect  order.  If  you  would  all  keep  in 
the  order  that  is  appointed  by  revelation  from  on  high,  there  would  be  no 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


trouble  among  us,  all  the  powers  and  authorities  vested  in  different  call- 
ings in  the  Church,  but  all  would  work  in  perfect  harmony,  and  it  does 
to  a  very  large  extent.  We  only  have  a  little  ripple  now  and  then  from 
persons  who  are  either  not  fully  informed  or  become  ambitious,  wish  to 
step  out  of  their  place  and  do'  that  for  which  they  have  not  been  ap- 
pointed. 

OUR  AUTHORITY  DIVINE 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  this  morning  I  rejoice  in  the  testi- 
mony in  my  heart  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  of  this  great  fact  that 
we  are  representing  the  only  Church  under  the  direction  personally  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Redeemer,  which  is  recognized  on  high.  The  power 
and  authority  has  come  from  on  high  to  the  leaders  of  this  Church  to 
seal  on  earth,  and  what  they  seal  in  the  way  appointed  will  be  sealed  in 
heaven ;  to  loose  on  earth  when  it  becomes  proper  and  necessary,  and  it 
shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  We  work  together  with  the  powers  on  high. 
The  authority  given  by  the  Lord  to  us  is  divine  authority.  It  is  not 
the  authority  of  men  although  it  is  given  to  men.  Men  are  called  and 
ordained  to  different  offices  in  the  holy  priesthood  that  they  may  labor 
for  the  salvation  of  souls,  not  only  for  the  living  but  also  for  the  dead. 

THE  DUTY  OF  THE  PRESENT 

Our  work  goes  back  to  our  ancestry,  to  former  generations  as  far  as 
we  can  extend  it.  It  also  goes  forward  for  the  benefit  of  our  posterity, 
and  we  stand  here  on  the  earth  between  these  two  seas,  not  "unbounded" 
seas,  as  we  used  to  sing  in  one  of  the  old  sectarian  hymns — "On  two 
unbounded  seas  I  stand"  was  one  of  the  songs  that  used  to  be  sung  in  the 
old  Dissenting  churches ;  of  course  that  is  an  absurdity — but  we  do  stand 
between  the  past  and  the  future.  Wre,  who  are  here  today  in  the  present, 
not  only  have  a  duty  to  perform  in  carrying  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
as  it  has  been  restored  in  the  latter  days,  to  all  the  world,  but  to  labor  for 
the  salvation  of  our  ancestors  by  attending  to  ordinances  for  them  which 
they  could  not  now  perform,  being  in  the  spirit  world ;  also  to  lay  a 
foundation  for  our  posterity  to  walk  in  our  ways  as  far  as  we  do  right, 
to  learn  to  keep  God's  commandments  and,  when  we  pass  away,  to  bear  off 
this  kingdom  and  carry  it  to  a  consummation  under  the  direction  of  Jesus 
Christ,  our  Redeemer,  who  is  perfect  in  his  obedience  to  the  great  Eter- 
nal Father  whom  we  worship. 

DOCTRINES  REVEALED  FROM  GOD 

The  doctrines  of  the  Church  that  have  been  given  to  lis  have  been 
revealed  from  God.  The  doctrine  of  faith — real  faith,  not  mere  belief, 
but  real,  whole-souled  faith  in  the  Supreme  Being,  the  Father  of  us  all 
in  our  spirit  state ;  to  have  faith  in  him  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  who 
represents  him  fully  and  completely  in  personality,  in  appearance,  in 
form,  in  feature,  in  spirit  and  in  power,  and  is  appointed  to  be  the  man- 
ifestation of  God  in  the  flesh.    He  has  ended  his  mission  on  earth ;  he  is 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE 


13 


filling  it  on  high ;  he  kept  every  commandment  of  God  before  he  came 
into  the  world ;  he  kept  the  commandments  of  God  while  he  was  here, 
and  has  continued  to  be  subservient  to  his  Father  .in  heaven,  so  that 
they  two  are  one,  and  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  third  person  in  the  holy 
Trinity — a  personage  of  spirit — is  one  with  them ;  and  by  the  power  that 
emanates  from  Deity  the  worlds  are  created  and  peopled  and  led  on 
from  stage  to  stage  in  progress  towards  perfection,  all  to  be  obedient 
to  the  eternal  principles  of  right  embodied  in  the  personages  of  the  Trin- 
ity, our  Father,  our  Elder  Brother,  and  the  Holy  Ghost.  From  them 
proceeds  that  universal  essence  or  spirit,  the  Holy  Spirit,  which  is  "in 
all  things  and  through  all  things  and  round  about  all  things,"  and  as  we 
are  told  in  God's  revelation  to  us,  "is  the  law  by  which  all  things  are 
governed." 

The  Lord  has  revealed  to  us  through  the  prophet  Joseph  that  by 
the  power  of  that  Spirit  he  created  all  things,  firstly  spiritual  and  after- 
wards temporal.  That  is  boundless ;  wherever  there  is  space,  that  Spirit 
is,  so  that  there  are  kingdoms  everywhere,  as  the  revelation  says :  "There 
is  no  space  in  which  there  is  no  kingdom,  and  there  is  no  kingdom  in 
which  there  is  no  space  ;"  and  this  universal  Spirit,  which  is  the  Spirit 
of  life,  the  Spirit  of  light,  the  Spirit  of  truth,  is  the  vital  principle  that 
animates  all  things  organized  under  the  direction  of  our  Father  and 
those  associated  with  him,  and  is  the  one  eternal  Spirit  by  which  things 
that  are  spiritual  are  manifest  to  those  who  are  temporal.  Now,  that 
Spirit  is  with  the  Saints  in  its  higher  forms,  in  its  higher  gifts,  in  its 
higher  manifestations.  It  is  sealed  upon  us  by  the  laying  on  of  hands 
after  we  are  baptized,  as  a  heavenly  gift,  an  abiding  witness,  and  the 
doctrine  of  faith  in  Christ  has  to  be  taught  to  all  the  world  as  plainly  as 
we  can  make  it  clear,  to  overcome  the  fallacies  existing  in  the  world — 
in  the  Christian  nations  and  in  the  heathen  nations — about  an  impersonal 
deity,  about  something  which  is  nothing,  a  blank  contradiction,  that 
error  may  be  dispelled,  that  darkness  may  be  rolled  away  from  the  minds 
of  the  children  of  men,  and  the  light  of  the  everlasting  gospel  shall  shine 
in,  that  they  may  learn  something  about  God  their  Father,  something 
about  their  origin,  something  about  their  duty,  and  something  about  their 
destiny. 

,  EVERY  MAN  SHOULD  LEARN  HIS  DUTY 

This  work  belongs  to  us  who  are  here  today,  and  those  whom  we 
represent  in  the  different  parts  of  the  Church,  and  every  man  should  learn 
his  standing  in  the  priesthood  which  is  given  to  him,  learn  his  duties.  He 
can  read  most  of  them  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  God  has 
given  to  us  as  a  sacred  book,  one  of  the  written  standards  of  the  Church, 
which  with  the  Bible  and  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  comprehends  the  written  standards.  And  we  are  not  bound  to  re- 
ceive every  book  that  somebody  publishes  with  his  own  personal  views  and 
notions  to'  lead  people  astray  and  to  glorify  himself.  Every  man  should 
learn  his  duty  from  that  which  God  has  revealed,  and  there  is  plenty 
revealed  to  enable  us  to  understand  our  callings,  our  duties,  our  powers  in 
the  priesthood,  and  its  limits.    We  are  to  advocate  the  freedom  of  con- 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


science,  and  the  freedom  of  speech  and  of  good  law.  The  freedom  of 
speech  should  not  be  extended  to  license,  whether  it  be  by  word  of  mouth 
or  by  the  press,  but  that  liberty  which  God  designs  for  his  children  to 
have  is  embodied  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  so  that  our  gospel  is 
a  gospel  of  liberty.  It  preaches  liberty  from  sin,  shows  how  people  may 
repent,  how  they  may  turn  away  from  evil  doings  so  as  to  preserve  their 
bodies  as  well  as  their  spirits  in  purity  before  the  Lord  so  _  that  they 
may  be  quickened  by  his  Spirit  and  learn  of  him,  and  come  into  sweet 
communion  with  him,  and  learn  by  the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to 
them  individually  what  they  are  required  to  do.  Every  man  should  un- 
derstand that.  Besides  that,  there  is  order  in  the  Church,  by  which  the 
law  of  the  Lord  can  be  made  known  to  the  members  of  the  Church,  and 
the  man  who  stands  at  the  head  holds  the  keys  thereof.  If  we  would 
all  do  that  it  would  save  a  great  deal  of  trouble  and  would  accomplish 
a  great  deal  of  good. 

OUR  CHURCH  IS  DIVINE 

Now,  T  desire  this  morning  in  my  heart  that  all  persons  who  attend 
this  conference  shall  go  away  feeling  the  fact  to  be  clear  to  their  minds 
and  burning  in  their  souls,  that  this  Church  to  which  we  belong  is  a 
divine  Church.  It  is  not  a  church  of  men.  It  is  a  Church  from  God, 
revealed  by  Jesus  Christ  and  by  those  whom  he  has  appointed.  He  vis- 
ited the  Prophet  Joseph,  personally,  and  the  priesthood  itself  came  from 
on  high,  and  was  bestowed  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  upon  the  Prophet 
Joseph,  by  beings  who  held  the  keys,  and  has  come  down  from  him  to  us 
and  is  the  same  to  us  as  it  was  to  him  and  the  brethren  associated  with 
him  in  the  early  rise  of  the  Church.  It  is  called  the  priesthood  after  the 
order  of  Melchizedek,  because  Melchizedek  was  a  very  great  and  effective 
high  priest,  and  the  priesthood  after  the  order  of  Aaron  is  so  named 
because  he  was  in  a  large  degree  a  leading  faithful  priest.  Some  things 
he  did  that  were  wrong,  like  Moses  did,  and  they  were  chastised  for  their 
misdeeds  and  weaknesses,  but  this  priesthood  is  that  which  they  held, 
and  it  is  the  only  authority  that  God  has  given  to  man  on  the  earth  to 
represent  him  and  to  administer  the  ordinances  of  the  Church  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  or  in  the  name  of  the  Father  and  of  the  Son 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  in  those  things  that  the  Lord  has  specially  re- 
quired to  be  done  in  that  order. 

OUR  DUTY  UNDER  THIS  KNOWLEDGE 

And,  this  work  should  be  rooted  in  our  hearts.  We  have  a  duty  to 
perform.  We  are  here  to  do  it.  That  is  what  we  are  here  for  on  the 
earth.  The  Lord  kept  our  spirits  back  to  this  dispensation,  that  we  might 
come  here  and  aid  in  the  building  up  of  his  kingdom  and  bringing  about 
his  purposes,  which  are  all  bound  up  in  the  redemption  of  the  race,  as 
President  Lund  has  told  us  this  morning,  for  the  salvation  of  all  man- 
kind, with  only  a  few  exceptions.  Everything  is  to  be  saved  that  can  be 
saved,  and  onlv  those  who  will  utterly  rebel  against  the  principles  of 
salvation  will  be  ultimately  lost  and  "go  away  with  the  devil  and  his 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE 


15 


angels  in  eternity,  to  suffer  the  wrath  of  God ;"  they  are  to  receive  the 
penalty  that  is  their  portion,  but  all  the  rest  are  to  come  forth,  every  man 
in  his  order,  and  be  judged  according  to  his  works,  and  when  he  has 
received  the  proper  penalty  or  has  been  forgiven  through  deep  and  earn- 
est and  real  repentance,  and  turns  unto  God  and  bows  the  knee  and  is 
willing  to  do  all  things  that  the  Lord  commands,  then  all  these  can  be 
brought  up  into  some  place  or  position  where  they  can  glorify  God,  and 
enjoy  their  own  existence,  and  unite  with  their  kind  in  the  kingdom  or 
order  to  which  they  are  appointed,  and  in  which  they  receive  a  just  degree 
of  glory. 

This  is  a  great  and  mighty  work  because  it  is  divine,  and  we  should 
carry  that  knowledge  with  us.  While  we  treat  everybody  in  the  world 
with  proper  respect,  respecting  their  feelings,  respecting  their  notions  and 
ideas,  as  far  as  they  are  worthy  of  any  respect — we  do  . not  wish  to  inter- 
fere with  the  mode  of  worship  or  anything  in  which  they  may  engage 
that  is  lawful— at  the  same  time  we  have  to  remember  the  fact  that  we 
are  the  people  of  the  Lord,  and  that  we  are  here  and  are  baptized  into 
His  Church,  and  ordained  to  the  priesthood  or  appointed  in  the  several 
auxiliary  societies,  that  we  may  be  saviors  of  men  and  of  women  and  of 
children,  and  that  we  may  plant  in  the  earth  a  structure  that  cannot  be 
uprooted,  the  benefits  of  which  will  go  to  our  posterity  and  reach  back  to 
our  ancestors  for  generations  that  are  past.  It  is  a  splendid  work.  There 
is  no  language  in  which  its  greatness  can  be  properly  extolled  and  glori- 
fied and  explained,  because  it  is  divine,  and  carries  the  mark  of  divinity 
in  every  part  of  its  organism,  in  all  its  doctrines  and  precepts  and  ordin- 
ances and  ceremonies,  all  of  which  are  from  God  and  not  from  man. 


OUR  MISSION  THE  SALVATION  OF  SOULS 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  this  is  our  mission  on  the  earth,  to  labor 
for  the  salvation  of  souls,  to  do  good  and  fear  not,  to  stand,  each  man 
and  woman  in  his  or  her  lot  and  place,  and  labor  for  the  redemption  of 
the  race,  under  the  direction  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  our  Master.  It  is 
a  splendid  work  in  which  to  be  engaged.  I  have  been  in  it  for  a  long 
time,  and  I  can  say  that  I  have  more  joy,  and  always  have,  in  carrying 
the  gospel  to  people  afar  off,  or  preaching  it  to  people  at  home,  when  I 
have  the  spirit  of  it,  than  in  anything  else  that  I  have  been  engaged  in 
at  any  time.  There  is  a  joy.  a  complete  satisfaction  and  contentment  of 
soul  in  laboring  for  this  cause,  that  does  not  go  with  anything  else  in  the 
world.  This  will  be  our  payment  right  here,  if  we  get  no  other  pay,  but 
the  glory  that  is  to  come,  oh  !  if  we  could  only  express  what  we  can  see 
and  feel  of  it,  I  think  we  would  enthuse  other  people.  I  think  we  would 
inspire  them  to  works  of  righteousness,  and  to  join  in  and  bring  about  the 
purposes  of  the  Almighty,  because  this  work  is  to  go  pn  forever  and  ever, 
and  there  is  no  end  to  it.  This  work  will  go  on  in  the  worlds  that  are 
to  come,  and  our  posterity,  if  they  are  only  trained  up  in  the  right  way  and 
will  walk  in  the  path  of  righteousness,  will  help  to  carry  this  on,  genera- 
tion after  generation,  eternity  after  eternity,  and  there  is  no  end  of  it. 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ETERNAL  OR  CELESTIAL  MARRIAGE 

One  of  the  greatest  manifestations  of  the  mind  and  will  of  God  to 
this  Church  is  in  the  doctrine  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  on 
eternal  or  celestial  marriage.  This  ought  to  be  impressed  on  the  minds 
of  our  children,  our  hoys  and  our  girls.  Not  merely  as  a  matter  of  duty 
should  they  receive  the  ordinance  of  eternal  matrimony,  but  as  a  great 
deligkt,  as  a  privilege.  Thankful  they  should  be  in  their  hearts  that  they 
can  be  worthy  of  receiving  that  great  blessing — a  man  to  have  a  wife 
sealed  to  him  by  the  holy  order  of  God,  by  that  which  is  from  all  eternity, 
by  the  power  of  the  eternal  priesthood,  which  is  without  beginning  of 
days  or  end  of  years,  and  that  this  shall  be  recorded  on  earth  and  re- 
corded in  heaven.  It  shall  be  sealed  on  earth  by  the  power  of  the  Most 
High  in  men  appointed  to  perform  it,  and  sealed  in  heaven  to  stand  for- 
ever, both  beyond  the  veil  and  in  and  after  the  resurrection,  saith  the 
Lord  your  God.  What  a  privilege  for  men  and  women  to  be  sealed  to- 
gether by  the  holy  order  of  God  in  holy  matrimony,  loving  one  another 
with  all  their  hearts,  putting  down  every  feeling  of  discord  that  may 
arise,  subduing  every  feeling  of  personality  wherein  they  disagree,  trying 
to  harmonize  in  the  household  and  build  upon  a  foundation  that  shall 
never  be  destroyed,  that  the  children  after  them  shall  come  forth  in  purity 
to  serve  the  Lord,  to  spread  his  gospel  in  the  world,  and  in  the  world  to 
come  shall  be  with  them  in  the  holy  patriarchal  order  of  the  family  rela-. 
tion,  and  that  they  shall  increase,  worlds  without  end,  in  their  posterity, 
in  knowledge,  in  wisdom,  in  understanding,  in  dominion,  in  power,  in 
glory,  and  in  close  intercourse  with  the  great  Eternal  Father  and  beings 
of  his  character.  That  is  what  is  involved  in  this  splendid  order  of  celes- 
tial marriage. 

When  I  speak  of  "celestial  marriage"  I  mean  just  as  we  can  read 
about  it  in  the  132nd  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  It  is  given 
as  a  commandment ;  that  is,  this  celestial  marriage,  which  is  eteral  mar- 
riage, marriage  for  time  and  all  eternity.  That  is  necessary  for  a  man  and 
a  woman  to  attain  to  the  highest  degree  of  glory  in  the  celestial  world. 
If  they  do  not  receive  it  in  their  hearts  they  are  damned,  or  condemned, 
because  if  they  do  riot  receive  it  then  they  cannot  go  further ;  their  rela- 
tions will  end  at  death.  But  if  they  are  united  by  the  holy  order  of  God, 
by  that  power  which  is  from  all  eternity,ordained,  as  Jesus  said,  by  him  and 
his  Father  before  the  world  was.  it  shall  abide  in  death  and  it  shall  abide 
in  and  after  the  resurrection.  The  children,  the  posterity  of  the  persons 
thus  joined,  shall  belong  to  them,  to  one  another,  and  with  that  order 
they  will  progress  in  all  things  and  have  an  endless  posterity  while  eternal 
ages  roll  along.  That  is  a  privilege.  We  need  not  class  it  as  a  duty,  al- 
though it  is,  for  it  is  a  commandment  of  God. 

PLURAL  MARRIAGES  NO  LONGER  SOLEMNIZED 

There  is  another  portion  of  that  revelation  which  relates  to  further 
orders  in  that  holy  order  of  marriage  which  is  under  special  direction,  the 
power  and  keys  of  which  are  confined  to  one  individual,  who  is  the 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE 


17 


President  of  the  Church.  Read  it  carefully.  The  keys  of  that  power  are 
given  only  to  one  man  at  a  time  on  the  earth,  and  you  will  see  sometime, 
if  you  cannot  now,  the  wisdom  of  that  law.  He  holds  the  key  of  that 
power,  and  when  he  turns  it,  as  Brother  Woodruff  did,  it  closes  the  door. 
He  issued  a  manifesto  which  was  adopted  by  the  Church,  that  plural 
marriages  should  no  longer  be  solemnized,  because  the  highest  court,  the 
court  of  last  resort  in  this  land,  passed  upon  the  laws  that  had  been 
enacted  by  Congress,  and  pronounced  them  constitutional,  then  we  sub- 
mitted to  the  law  of  the  land,  as  we  are  told  to  do  in  the  revelations  of 
God,  and  to  the  authority  that  belongs  to  the  one  man  in  the  law  of  God. 
Now  then,  when  you  hear  of  people — I  want  to  refer  to  this  as  clearly  as 
possible,  and  I  find  it  necessary  to  do  it  because  of  some  recent  occur- 
rences— when  men  go  around  and  whisper  in  the  ears  of  the  people  that 
this  thing  is  all  right  if  you  can  keep  it  secret ;  keep  it  from  the  man  that 
holds  the  keys — Think  of  it ! — if  you  can  keep  it  from  him,  don't  say 
anything  to  him  about  it ;  it  is  all  right.  Such  deception  has  been  exposed 
and  condemned  several  times,  but  it  is  cropping  out  again. 

President  Lorenzo  Snow,  in  the  year  1900,  the  8th  day  of  January, 
issued  a  statement  through  the  Deseret  Neivs,  announcing  that  plural 
marriages  were  positively  forbidden.  They  were  stopped  before  that,  of 
course,  and  the  congregation  in  conference  assembled  endorsed  the  de- 
cision of  President  Wilford  Woodruff,  who  held  the  keys,  that  this  kind 
of  marriages  should  be  permitted  no  longer.  President  Lorenzo  Snow, 
on  the  date  named,  published  in  .the  Dcscrct  News  a  statement  to  the  effect 
and  told  the  brethren  everywhere  that  if  they  entered  into  that  kind  of 
marriage  it  would  be  at  their  own  risk  under  the  law,  for  the  Jaw  is 
against  it,  the  law  of  the  land  and  the  law  of  the  Church;  and  when  peo- 
ple are  inveigled  into  any  relation  of  plural  marriage  by  persons  pretend- 
ing to  have  a  right  to  do  it,  they  are  led  astray,  and  I  am  afraid  when 
they  are,  they  are  very  willing  to  be  led  astray,  at  least  in  some  instances, 
but  there  are  only  a  few  such  cases  to  be  heard  of  nowadays,  and  yet 
they  continue.  There  are  persons  who  claim  to  hold  the  priesthood, 
who  go  around  among  the  people  and  tell  them  it  is  all  right  and  that 
it  can  be  done. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  in  1904 — he  had  spoken  about  this  before, 
but  he  then  issued  a  public  manifestation  which  also  was  published  in  the 
Dcserct  News,  proclaiming  to  all  the  Church  that  there  was  not  one 
man  in  the  Church  that  had  any  right  to  administer  that  order  of  mar- 
riage, and  yet  such  things  have  been  done  since  that  time,  and  we  hear 
now  that  it  is  springing  up  again,  and  there  are  persons  going  around 
among  the  people  and  trying  to  lead  them  astray  in  regard  to  this.  Let 
me  read  to  vou  a  verse  or  two.  Here  is  what  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
said  January  8,  1900 : 

"I  feel  it  just  to  both  'Mormons'  and  non-'Mormons'  to  state  that  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  manifesto  of  the  late  President  Woodruff,  dated  September 
26th,  1890,  which  was  presented  to  and  unanimously  accepted  by  our  general 
conference  on  the  6th  of  October,  1890,  the  Church  had  positively  abandoned 
the  practice  of  polygamy  or  the  solemnization  of  plural  marriages  in  this  and 
every  other  state,  and  that  no  member  or  officer  thereof  has  any  authority  what- 
ever to  perform  such  plural  marriages  or  enter  into  such  relationship." 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Here  is  what  was  said  over  the  signature  of  President  Smith: 

"Inasmuch  as  there  are  numerous  reports  in  circulation  that  plural  mar- 
riages have  been  entered  into  contrary  to  the  official  declaration  of  President 
Woodruff  of  September  26th,  1890,  commonly  called  the  Manifesto,  which  was 
issued  by  President  Woodruff  and  adopted  by  the  Church  at  its  general  con- 
ference, October  6th,  1890,  which  forbade  any  marriage  violative  of  the  law  of 
the  land,  I,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  President  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  do  hereby  affirm  and  declare  that  no  such  marriages  have  been 
solemnized  with  the  sanction,  consent  or  knowledge  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  hereby  announce  that  all  such  marriages  are 
prohibited,  and  if  any  officer  or  member  of  the  Church  shall  assume  to  sol- 
emnize or  enter  into  any  such  marriage,  he  will  be  deemed  in  transgression 
against  the  Church,  and  will  be  liable  to  be  dealt  with  according  to  the  rules 
and  regulations  thereof,  and  excommunicated  therefrom." 

Thereupon  the  following-  resolution  was  unanimously  adopted  when 
this  instruction  and  decision  from  the  President  of  the  Church  was  pre- 
sented : 

"Resolved  that  we,  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  general  conference  assembled,  hereby  approve  and  endorse  the 
statement  and  declaration  of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  just  made  to  the 
conference  concerning  plural  marriages,  and  will  support  the  courts  of  the 
Church  in  the  enforcement  thereof." 

On  January  31st,  1914,  a  message  was  sent  to  all  the  presidents  of 
stakes  and  counselors,  signed  by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  Anthon  H.  Lund  and  Charles  W.  Penrose,  saying: 

"Having  reason  to  believe  that  some  members  of  the  Church  are  secretly 
engaged,  advising  and  encouraging  others  to  enter  into  unauthorized  and  un- 
lawful marriages,  we  have  deemed  it  advisable  to  call  your  attention  to  the 
communication  we  addressed  to  you  on  this  subject  on  the  5th  of  October, 
1910,  a  copy  of  which  is  herewith  appended;  and  believing,  as  we  do,  that  these 
people  are  at  the  bottom  of  all  the  violations  referred  to  in  our  communica- 
tion, we  direct  your  special  attention  to  them,  with  the  request  that  any  in- 
formation received  by  you  from  time  to  time  relating  to  cases  of  this  char- 
acter, be  followed  up  and  investigated,  with  a  view  to  having  this  class  of 
offenders  placed  on  trial  for  their  fellowship  in  the  Church,  as  we  regard  them 
equally  culpable  with  actual  offenders.  Please  make  the  same  request  of 
your  bishops." 

Now,  perhaps  it  might  be  thought  there  was  no  particular  need  to 
speak  of  this  in  this  public  conference,  but  I  feel  it  a  duty  resting  upon  me, 
because  I  have  heard  so  many  stories  that  are  being  told  concerning  this 
that  I  thought  it  ought  to  be  presented  to  this  congregation,  and  I  hope 
I  have  not  trodden  on  the  feet  of  any  of  my  brethren  in  doing  it.  I  know 
that  this  is  their  mind  and  will,  and  I  know  there  are  many  members  of 
our  Church  who  point  to  certain  parties  and  say  they  know  that  those 
parties  have  been  married  in  plural  marriage,  that  is,  they  have  been 
joined — for  there  is  no  marriage  in  it — in  plural  marriage,  but  they  do 
not  tell  that  in  a  way  that  those  parties  can  be  properly  handled.  There 
is  order  in  this  Church,  as  there  is  in  all  the  works  of  God,  and  there  are 
proper  tribunals  to  which  these  things  should  be  presented.  The  bish- 
ops, as  common  judges  in  Israel,  can  take  up  such  cases,  and  when  they 
find  the  evidence,  the  proof  is  given  them,  can  withdraw  the  hand  of 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  IV.  PENROSE. 


19 


fellowship  from  the  offenders,  and  they  can  send  up  the  cases  of  men 
holding  the  priesthood,  who  have  been  shown  to  be  transgressing  in  this 
way,  to  the  high  council  of  the  stake  wherein  they  reside,  and  it  is  the 
duty  of  the  high  councils  in  the  respective  stakes  of  Zion  to  act  on  these 
cases  when  they  are  so  presented. 

The  Council  of  the  Twelve,  which  is  a  traveling,  presiding  high 
council,  has  had  to  take  up  some  of  these  cases  and  has  acted  upon  them, 
but  the  Twelve  are  not  in  a  position  always  to  do  this,  and  when  the  people 
say:  "Oh,  the  Church  knows  about  it,  the  Church  knows  about  it,"  they 
are  mistaken ;  the  Church  does  not  know,  and  if  they  know,  it  is  their 
duty  to  take  the  matter  before  the  proper  authorities  and  get  the  matter 
handled,  and  stop  this  talk  about  the  Church  knowing  it.  Every  case 
of  this  kind,  when  people  make  such  remarks,  is  a  reflection  upon  the 
President  of  the  Church,  who  holds  the  keys,  and  it  is  intimated  that  he 
has  one  thing  for  the  public  and  another  thing  in  private ;  that  is  a  wicked 
falsehood,  and  I  denounce  it  as  such.  I  know  that  President  Smith  is 
the  very  soul  of  honor.  I  know  that  he  stands,  in  his  right  place  and  holds 
the  keys  of  this  power,  and  if  he  thought  it  was  proper  to  countenance  such 
things  in  any  way,  he  would  do  it  with  the  greatest  boldness  in  the  world. 
I  have  not  talked  to  him  about  this  particular  point,  this  morning  or  at 
any  time  recently,  but  I  know  that  this  is  his  mind,  and  I  think  that  it  is 
a  good  time  to  speak  of  it  now. 

STATUS  OF  PEOPLE  WHO  ENTER  MARRIAGE  WITHOUT  AUTHORITY 

Brethren  and  sisters,  when  we  enter  into  any  order  that  God  has 
appointed,  we  have  to  do  it  properly,  righteously,  in  the  right  spirit,  and 
the  man  who  holds  the  keys  only  has  the  right  to  regulate  the  matter. 
Do  not  believe  these  stories  that  men  who  are  seeking  to  indulge  their 
own  lust  are  circulating  around  among  the  people,  but  try  to  guard  the 
purity  of  our  innocent  girls,  many  of  whom  have  never  heard  of  such 
things,  and  these  things  are  whispered  in  their  ears  by  some  designing 
person  who  is  a  rebel,  a  rebel  against  the  Church  of  Christ  and  a  rebel 
against  the  laws  of  the  land — the  laws  of  Utah  I  refer  to.  The  laws  of 
Utah  forbid  these  things.  The  laws  of  Utah  provide  a  very  heavy  pen- 
alty for  any  person  who  solemnizes  such  a  marriage,  a  very  heavy  pen- 
alty for  the  man  who  enters  into  such  a  pretended  marriage.  It  is  not 
recognized  as  a  marriage,  but  it  is  called  a  marriage  so  that  cases  may  be 
tried  in  court.  So  that  a  man  who  goes  around  and  does  this,  either  by 
solemnizing  such  a  thing  or  by  advocating  it,  is  a  rebel  against  the  Church 
and  a  rebel  against  the  country,  the  state  to  which  he  belongs.  That  may 
sound  rather  harsh  language,  but  it  does  not  fully  express  my  feelings 
and  the  feelings  of  others  in  regard  to  such  persons.  Now,  I  hope  there 
are  only  a  few  cases  existing  among  the  people  that  I  have  referred  to, 
because  it  is  a  serious  thing  to  have  people  fancy  that  they  are  married, 
when  there  was  no  real  marriage,  no  marriage  according  to  the  Church, 
no  marriage  according  to  the  laws  of  the  land ;  and  yet  they  live  together 
with  all  the  privileges  of  matrimony.  It  is  wrong,  displeasing  to  the 
Lord,  displeasing  to  those  who  are  in  authority  in  the  Church,  and 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


offensive  to  a  great  many  people  who  are  surrounded  by  such  persons  and 
have  to  meet  them  pretty  nearly  every  day.  I  would  say  to  my  brethren 
in  the  priesthood  that  while  we  want  to  extend  the  hand  of  kindness  to 
repentant  souls,  while  we  do  not  want  to  throw  a  straw  in  the  way  of  a 
repentant  sinner,  either  in  time  or  eternity,  it  does  not  follow,  when 
such  persons  really  repent,  that  they  should  be  put  up  on  high  to  be  a 
mark  for  the  people  to  respect  in  high  places.  Just  think  that  over  in 
your  minds.  Repentance  is  right,  and  encouragement  of  repentance  is 
right,  and  the  forgiving  of  sinners  is  right.  God  forgives  sin  when  peo- 
ple properly  repent,  but  that  does  not  involve  the  idea  that  they  should 
be  set  up  in  high  places  to  be  a  mark  of  respect  for  people  who  feel  that 
these  persons  have  been  in  transgression. 

THE  SPIRIT  OF  GOD  AS  A  CONSTANT  WITNESS 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  all  do  our  duty.  Let  us  rejoice  in 
the  Lord.  Let  us  feel  glad  in  this  splendid  work  of  the  Lord  that  has 
been  established.  Let  us  do  all  in  our  power  to  spread  forth  the  gospel 
by  carrying  it  or  sending  it  to  the  ends  of  the  earth.  It  is  a  glorious  work 
to  carry  this  message  of  salvation,  to  bring  souls,  honest  souls,  into  the 
knowledge  of  the  truth  and  into  the  Church  of  Christ,  to  baptize  them 
for  the  remission  of  their  sins,  and  their  sins  are  washed  away  :  as  the 
water  washes  their  bodies,  so  their  souls  are  cleansed,  their  spiritual  being- 
is  cleansed  and  revived,  and  they  are  born  unto  Christ  Jesus,  and  become 
part  of  him,  or  of  his  body,  the  Church;  and  then  by  the  laying  on  of 
hands  to  confer  upon  them  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  gift  from 
God,  the  Holy  Spirit  to  be  with  them  as  a  constant  witness,  as  the  abiding 
testimony,  as  the  light  of  God,  lit  up  in  their  souls,  and  to  enable  them 
to  come  near  to  the  Lord  and  receive  the  revelations  of  his  will  concern- 
ing themselves,  but  not  to  govern  the  Church  unless  they  are  so  appointed. 
Now,  that  is  a  splendid  thing,  and  it  is  a  reality.  I  know  it  is  true.  I 
know  "it  works,"  as  the  saying  is,  in  every  land  to  which  it  is  carried. 
People  of  different  languages  and  countries  and  customs,  to  whom  I  have 
had  the  privilege  of  bearing  my  testimony,  who  have  embraced  the  gospel, 
have  received  this  one  spirit,  which  gives  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  and  it 
is  a  reality  and  no  moonshine  about  it.  It  is  the  light  from  the  Sun  of 
Righteousness.  It  is  the  glory  of  God  that  shines  around  about  them. 
It  fills  the  soul  with  peace.  It  gives  them  an  abiding  witness  of  the  life 
and  death  and  atonement  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  of  the  divine  author- 
ity of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  of  the  divine  authority  of  the  elders  of 
Israel  who  bear  this  priesthood,  and  it  is  a  real  thing  in  the  soul  of  man. 

TESTIMONY  AND  BLESSINGS 

I  thank  my  God  this  morning  in  the  midst  of  this  congregation  for 
this  knowledge.  I  desire  it  to  rest  upon  the  people.  I  desire  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  realize  that  they  are  members  of  the  body  of  Christ,  that 
they  are  all  under  covenant  to  walk  in  his  ways,  to  serve  him  and  keep  his 
commandments,  and  when  they  receive  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  sup- 


PRESIDENT  CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


21 


per,  that  they  renew  their  covenants  with  him,  declaring  that  they  are 
willing  to  take  npon  them  his  name,  and  to  keep  the  commandments  which 
he  has  given  them,  so  that  the  Holy  Spirit  may  be  with  them  always. 
What  a  blessing!  What  a  great  gift  from  God,  and  it  is  true,  just  as 
true  as  that  we  are  here  in  this  congregation  this  morning. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  bless  his  servant,  President  Smith,  and  prolong 
his  days  on  the  earth  in  usefulness,  according  to  the  full  desire  of  his 
heart.  The  Lord  will  bless  him  in  time  and  in  eternity,  in  the  body  or 
out  of  the  body.  He  is  one  of  the  chosen  of  God  before  the  foundations 
of  the  world,  to  come  here  on  the  earth  and  hold  the  keys  of  this  last  dis- 
pensation, and  he  will  carry  with  him  wherever  he  goes,  on  the  earth  or 
in  the  spirit  world,  the  might  and  strength  and  power  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God,  to  be  a  witness  for  Him,  to  spread 
truth  and  light  and  salvation  among  the  children  of  men,  when  they  are 
out  of  the  body  as  well  as  in  the  body,  and  stand  in  his  lot  and  place  as  a 
leader  in  Israel,  with  the  glory  of  God  surrounding  him  forever  and  ever. 
God  bless  this  congregation,  and  while  we  are  here  together  in  this  confer- 
ence may  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  inspire  every  one  who  speaks,  that  they 
may  bring  forth  words  of  eternal  life,  and  may  the  Holy  Spirit  accom- 
pany them,  and  may  we  all  be  able  to  carry  it  with  us  wherever  we  go, 
as  ministers  of  Christ,  exemplars  as  well  as  preachers  of  the  word,  and 
stand  in  our  lot  and  place  and  do  our  duty  to  the  full  extent,  then  our 
glory  is  sure,  our  exaltation  is  certain,  and  it  will  be  forever  and  ever. 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  feel  it  imperative  upon  myself  to  endorse  and  affirm  without  res- 
ervation the  statements  that  have  been  made  by  President  Penrose  in  re- 
lation to  the  subject  upon  which  he  last  treated.  I  want  to  say  to  this 
congregation,  and  to  the  world,  that  never  at  any  time  since  my  presidency 
in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  have  I  authorized 
any  man  to  perform  plural  marriage,  and  never  since  my  presidency 
of  the  Church  has  any  plural  marriage  been  performed  with  my  sanction 
or  knowledge,  or  with  the  consent  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints ;  and  therefore  such  unions  as  have  been  formed  unlaw- 
fully, contrary  to  the  order  of  the  Church,  are  null  and  void  in  the  sight 
of  God,  and  are  not  marriages.  I  hope  you  will  put  this  down  in  your 
note-book  of  remembrance,  and  bear  it  in  mind  henceforth. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  Elder  Joseph  R.  Shepherd,  former 

the  hymn,  "Guide  us,  O  Thou  great  president  of  the  Bear  Lake  stake  of 

Tehovah."  '  Zion.    Conference  adjourned  until 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 


President  Anthon  H.  Lund  pre- 
sided and  called  the  congregation 
to  order  at  2  o'clock. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn  :  "Come,  O  thou  King  of 
kings." 


Elder  Andrew  Jenson,  Assistant 
Church  Historian,  offered  the  open- 
ing prayer. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"O  ye  mountains  high." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

It  is  ever  and  always  a  very  great  pleasure  to  me  to  meet  with  the 
Latter-day  Saints  in  any  of  their  assemblies,  and  I  am  particularly  pleased 
to  be  present  at  our  general  conferences.  It  was  a  custom  with  me  as  a 
child  to  attend  our  general  conferences  regularly,  and  for  thirty-six  years, 
before  this  month  expires,  it  has  been  my  privilege  to  attend  these  con- 
ferences as  one  of  the  general  authorities  of  the  Church,  and  I  have  never 
yet  attended  a  conference  in  this  building  but  what  I  have  been  fed  the 
bread  of  life  by  those  who  have  spoken  to  the  people.  I  rejoice  with  you 
in  the  very  splendid  meeting  which  we  held  here  this  morning,  in  the 
inspiration  that  came  to  each  and  all  of  the  presidency  of  the  Church  as 
they  addressed  us.  I  desire  to  echo  the  sentiments  expressed  of  gratitude 
and  thanksgiving  to  our  heavenly  Father  that  our  beloved  President  was 
able  to  be  with  us  at  our  session  this  morning ;  and  I  hope  and  pray,  that 
the  exertion  necessary  on  his  part  to  attend  may  not  have  been  so  great 
but  what  he  can  be  with  us  again  before  our  conference  shall  close. 

REGARDING  FALSE  TEACHING 

I  desire  on  behalf  of  the  council  that  I  have  the  honor  to  preside 
over  to  say  that  we  endorse  the  references,  which  were  made  here  this 
morning  by  President  Penrose,  and  so  forcibly  reaffirmed  by  the  President 
of  the  Church,  regarding  this  question  of  plural  marriage  and  the  fact  that 
some  men  are  today  teaching  it  in  secret,  pretending  that  they  are  mar- 
ried or  are  entering  into  what  they  call  plural  marriage.  Such  men  are 
indeed  rebels,  and  traitors  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  because  they  are  branding  it  in  the  eyes  of  people  who  are  not  of 
us  as  being  a  dishonest  organization.  Personally,  and  I  also  speak  for 
each  member  of  the  council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles,  because  I  know  their 
sentiments  and  I  know  that  they  are  behind  me,  I  endorse  with  all  my 
heart  these  remarks.  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  in  my 
opinion  when  any  rebel  or  traitor  to  the  work  of  God  comes  into  their 
homes  and  tells  them  something  false  about  the  Church  that  there  is  a  lack 
of  patriotism  on  the  part  of  all  such  individuals  for  not  giving  the  traitor 
away.  I  would  like  you  to  get  this  into  your  minds.  These  people  go 
around  and  lie,  to  put  it  in  good,  plain  English,  and  they  tell  people, 
"Don't  you  say  anything,  don't  you  tell  who  told  you  that  it  was  right." 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


23 


You  don't  have  to  keep  the  confidence  of  those  who  are  crooked,  you 
don't  have  to  keep  the  confidence  of  somebody  who  is  telling  you  that 
which  is  false,  and  such  people  ought  to  be  exposed,  and  exposed  upon 
the  house  tops ;  they  go  around  posing  as  superior  to  honest,  straight-for- 
ward, upright  people,  branding  the  Church  and  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
with  infamy  by  pretending  we  preach  one  thing  in  public  and  do  another 
thing  in  private.  I  do  not  care  to  say  any  more  on  this  subject.  I  seldom, 
if  ever,  speak  on  it  that  it  doesn't  arouse  almost  every  particle  of  anger  in 
my  nature.  Some  of  them  say  the  Lord  has  directed  them  to  take  more 
wives.  Well,  I  think  he  directed  them  just  like  he  directed  the  negro 
(not  that  I  am  saying  this  to  reflect  upon  negroes),  but  there  was  a 
negro  who  prayed :  "Oh  Lawd,  oh  Lawd,  oh  Lawd ;  send  dis  heah  niggah 
a  turkey."  He  prayed  for  a  whole  week,  and  he  didn't  get  any  turkey, 
and  at  the  end  of  a  week  he  said :  "Dis  heah  niggah  don'  know  how  to 
pray,"  so  that  night  the  negro  prayed,  "Oh  Lawd,  oh  Lawd,  oh  Lawd, 
send  dis  heah  niggah  to  a  turkey,"  and  he, said,  "Dis  heah  niggah  had 
turkey  dinner  the  next  night." 

A  REMARKABLE  MANIFESTATION 

I  indorse  the  remarks  made  by  President  Penrose  regarding  the  peace 
and  the  joy  and  the  happiness  that  comes  into  the  human  heart  in  testi- 
fying of  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  which  has  again  been  revealed 
to  the  earth.  From  October  when  I  was  called  to  be  one  of  the  council  of 
the  Twelve,  until  the  following  February,  I  had  but  little  joy  and  happi- 
ness in  my  labors.  There  was  a  spirit  following  me  that  told  me  that  I 
lacked  the  experience,  that  I  lacked  the  inspiration,  that  I  lacked  the  testi- 
mony to  be  worthy  of  the  position  of  an  apostle  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ. 
My  dear  mother  had  inspired  me  with  such  a  love  of  the  gospel  and  with 
such  a  reverence  and  admiration  for  the  men  who  stood  at  the  head  of 
this  Church,  that  when  I  was  called  to  be  one  of  them  I  was  overpowered ; 
I  felt  my  unworthiness  and  the  adversary  taking  advantage  of  that  feeling 
in  my  heart,  day  and  night,  the  spirit  pursued  me,  suggesting  that  I  re- 
sign, and  when  I  testified  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  we  are  engaged  in, 
the  words  would  come  back,  "You  haven't  seen  the  Savior ;  you  have  no 
right  to  bear  such  a  testimony,"  and  I  was  very  unhappy. 

But  in  February,  1883,  while  riding  along  on  the  Navajo  Indian  Res- 
ervation with  Elder  Brigham  Young,  Jr.,  and  fifteen  or  twenty  other  breth- 
ren, including  the  late  president,  Lot  Smith,  of  one  of  the  Arizona  stakes,on 
our  way  to  visit  the  Navajos  and  Moquis — as  we  were  traveling  that  day, 
going  through  a  part  of  the  Navajo  Reservation  to  get  to' the  Moqui  Res- 
ervation— as  we  were  traveling  to  the  southeast,  suddenly  the  road  turned 
and  veered  almost  to  the  northeast,  but  there  was  a  path,  a  trail,  leading 
on  in  the  direction  in  which  we  had  been  traveling.  There  were  perhaps 
eight  or  ten  of  us  on  horseback  and  the  rest  in  wagons.  Brother  Smith 
and  I  were  at  the  rear  of  our  company.  When  we  came  to  the  trail  I  said, 
"Wait  a  minute.  Lot ;  where  does  this  trail  lead  to  ?" 

He  said,  "Oh,  it  leads  back  in  the  road  three  or  four  miles  over  here, 
but  we  have  to  make  a  detour  of  eight  or  nine  miles  to  avoid  a  large 
gully  that  no  wagons  can  cross." 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  asked :  "Can  a  horseman  get  over  that  gully  ?" 
He  answered,  "Yes." 

I  said,  "Any  danger  from  Indians,  by  being  out  there  alone?" 
He  answered,  "No." 

I  said,  "I  want  to  be  alone,  so  you  go  on  with  the  company  and  I  will 
meet  you  over  there  where  the  trail  and  road  join." 

One  reason  that  I  asked  if  there  was  any  danger  was  because  a  few 
days  before  our  company  had  visited  the  spot  where  George  A.  Smith,  Jr., 
had  been  killed  by  the  Navajo  Indians,  and  I  had  that  event  in  my  mind 
at  the  time  I  was  speaking.  I  had  perhaps  gone  one  mile  when  in  the 
kind  providences  of  the  Lord  it  was  manifested  to  me  perfectly  so  far  as 
my  intelligence  is  concerned — I  did  not  see  heaven,  I  did  not  see  a  council 
held  there,  but  like  Lehi  of  old,  I  seemed  to  see,  and  my  very  being  was 
so  saturated  with  the  information  that  I  received,  as  I  stopped  my  animal 
and  sat  there  and  communed  with  heaven,  that  I  am  as  absolutely  con- 
vinced of  the  information  that  came  to  me  upon  that  occasion  as  though 
the  voice  of  God  had  spoken  the  words  to  me. 

It  was  manifested  to  me  there  and  then  as  I  sat  there  and  wept  for 
joy  that  it  was  not  because  of  any  particular  intelligence  that  I  possessed, 
that  it  was  not  because  of  any  knowledge  that  I  possessed  more  than  a 
testimony  of  the  gospel,  that  it  was  not  because  of  my  wisdom,  that  I  had 
been  called  to  be  one  of  the  apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  this  last 
dispensation,  but  it  was  because  the  prophet  of  God,  the  man  who  was  the 
chosen  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  living  God  of  establishing  again 
upon  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  Joseph  Smith,  desired  that 
I  be  called,  and  that  my  father,  Jedediah  M.  Grant,  who  gave  his  life  for 
the  gospel,  while  one  of  the  presidency  of  the  Church,  a  counselor  to  Pres- 
ident Brigham  Young,  and  who  had  been  dead  for  nearly  twenty-six 
years,  desired  that  his  son  should  be  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  It  was  manifested  to  me  that  the  prophet  and  my  father  were 
able  to  bestow  upon  me  the  apostleship  because  of  their  faithfulness,  inas- 
much as  I  had  lived  a  clean  life,  that  now  it  remained  for  me  to  make  a 
success  or  a  failure  of  that  calling. 

GREAT  JOY  IN  THE  TESTIMONY  OBTAINED 

I  can  bear  witness  to  you  here  today  that  I  do  not  believe  that  any 
man  on  earth  from  that  day,  February,  1883,  until  now,  thirty-five  years 
ago,  has  had  sweeter  joy,  more  perfect  and  exquisite  happiness  than  I 
have  had  in  lifting  up  my  voice  and  testifying  of  the  gospel  at  home  and 
abroad  in  every  land  and  in  every  clime  where  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  go. 
A.nd  I  have  gone  to  Japan,  I  have  been  in  the  Hawaiian  Islands,  I  have 
been  from  Canada  to  Mexico,  I  have  been  in  nearly  every  state  in  the 
Union  of  the  United  States ;  I  have  been  in  England,  Ireland,  Scotland, 
Wales,  Germany,  Holland,  Belgium,  France,  Switzerland,  Italy,  Norway, 
Sweden  and  Denmark  and  I  have  had  joy  beyond  my  ability  to  express, 
in  lifting  up  my  voice,  in  bearing  witness  to  those  with  whom  I  have  come 
in  contact  that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Savior  of  the  world,  the  Redeemer  of  mankind ;  that  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God,  that  I  have 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


25 


the  abiding  testimony  in  my  heart  that  Brigham  Young  was  a  chosen 
instrument  of  the  living  God,  that  John  Taylor,  that  Wilford  Woodruff, 
that  Lorenzo  Snow  were,  and  that  today  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  the  representa- 
tive of  the  living  God,  and  the  mouthpiece  of  God  here  upon  the  earth. 

I  do  not  have  the  language  at  my  command  to  express  the  gratitude 
to  God  for  this  knowledge  that  I  possess  ;  and  time  and  time  again  my  heart 
has  been  melted,  my  eyes  have  wept  tears  of  gratitude  for  the  knowledge 
that  he  lives  and  that  this  gospel  called  "Mormonism"  is  in  very  deed  the 
plan  of  life  and  salvation,  that  it  is  the  only  true  gospel  upon  the  face  of 
the  earth,  that  it  is  in  very  deed  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  That 
God  may  help  you  and  me  and  everyone  to  live  it  is  my  constant  and  earn- 
est prayer. 

HOW   THE   POWER  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD   HAS   BEEN    MAINTAINED   BY  THE 
AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  will  read  from  Section  121  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

We  have  learned,  by  sad  experience,  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose,  they 
will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

Hence  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long  suffering,  by  gentleness,  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greasy  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile, 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him  whom 
thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death ; 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly,  then  shall  thy 
confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God,  and  the  doctrine  of  the  Priest- 
hood shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  sceptre  an 
unchanging  sceptre  of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall  be  an 
everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shail  flow  unto  thee 
for  ever  and  ever. 

I  want  to  bear  witness  to  you  here  today  that  during  the  thirty-six 
years  this  month  that  I  have  been  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
that  no  power  or  influence  has  ever  been  exercised  by  the  prophet  of  God 
who  has  presided  over  this  Church  during  this  time  except  exactly  as 
taught  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  ;  and  that  no  one  of  all  the  men  I 
have  been  associated  with  as  presidents  of  the  Church  has  had  more  char- 
ity, more  love,  and  has  exercised  the  priesthood  by  the  power  of  the  living 
God  in  meekness  and  mercy  and  kindness,  than  the  man  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  today,  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

That  God  may  preserve  his  life  for  many,  many  years  yet  to  come 
is  the  earnest  prayer  of  my  heart,  and  that  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  in 
all  the  land.  May  God  guide  us  to  his  praise  continually  and  forever,  is 
my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  x\men. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 

Greatness  of  the  Lord  Jesus — The 
burden  of  his  mission — Scattering 
and  gathering  of  Israel — The  Church 
and  Kingdom  of  God  predicated  up- 
on repentance — The  judgments  of 
God  upon  the  unrepentant — The 
Millennium  can  only  come  through 
the  establishment  of  righteous 
peace  which  can  never  exist  if  the 
earth  is  governed  by  militarism — 
The  Central  Powers  therefore  can- 
not win — The  time  for  repentance 
and  reformation  is  at  hand — The  day 
to  approach  the  Lord  in  faith  and 
prayer. 

I  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  spirit  of 
this  morning's  meeting',  and  was 
particularly  pleased  with  the  pres- 
ence of  President  Smith,  as  of 
course  we  all  were.  I  have  listened 
wifh  much  interest  to  the  testi- 
money  and  exhortation  of  President 
Grant,  and  I  humbly  desire  an  in- 
terest in  your  faith  and  prayers  that 
I  may  be  led  to  say  something  this 
afternoon  that  will  be  instructive 
to  those  who  are  assembled. 

My  brethren  and  .sisters,  we  learn 
from  the  scriptures  and  also  know 
from  our  own  experience,  some- 
thing of  the  character  of  that  Holy 
Being  whom  we  have  come  to- 
gether to  worship  this  afternoon. 
I  doubt  if  we  can  fully  compre- 
hend the  greatness  of  his  attributes. 
It  is  said  of  him  in  Exodus  that, 
"He  passed  by  before  Moses  and 
proclaimed  the  Lord  God,  the  Lord 
God  merciful  and  gracious,  long 
suffering  and  abundant  in  goodness 
and  truth."  And  in  the  103d  Psalm 
we  find  two  references  to  the  Al- 
mighty that  are  very  striking.  One 
is  that  "the  Lord  is  merciful  and 
gracious,  slow  to  anger,  and  plen- 
teous in  mercy,"  and  the  other  "the 
mercy  of  the  Lord  is  from  everlast- 
ing to  everlasting  upon  them  that 
fear  him,  and  his  righteousness  unto 
children's  children,  to  such  as  keep 


his  covenants,  and  to  those  that  re- 
member his  commandments  to  do 
them." 

How  broad  and  far  reaching  is 
the  love  and  mercy  of  the  Lord. 
But  remember  that  his  mercy  is  in- 
variably predicated  upon  repentance, 
repentance  of  sin ;  and  the  history 
of  his  people,  I  think,  will  substan- 
tiate this  statement.  You  will  re- 
member that  in  the  wilderness 
Moses  was  constantly  calling  upon 
the  people  to  repent  of  their  sins 
that  they  might  be  forgiven  by  sac- 
rifice. It  'was  the  burden  of  his 
mission  apparently  to  bring  the 
people  into  harmony  with  the  Lord 
and  with  his  work  by  repentance ; 
and  so  it  was  in  the  meridian  of 
time.  The  people  who  dwelt  in  Pal- 
estine had  a  great  temple,  the  temple 
of  the  Lord,  and  they  had  the  law 
of  Moses,  but  it  seems  that  they 
strayed  away  from  the  law  because 
we  read  that  in  those  days  came 
John  the  Baptist  preaching  in  the 
wilderness  of  Judea  saying,  "Re- 
pent ye,  repent  ye,  for  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  is  at  hand."  And  still 
later  we  learn  that  after  John  was 
put  into  prison,  the  Savior  came  in- 
to Galilee  preaching  the  gospel  of 
the  Kingdom  of  God,  saying,  "The 
time  is  fulfilled,  the  Kindom  of  God 
is  at  hand  ;  therefore  repent  and  be- 
lieve the  gospel."  And  it  appeared 
that  Jerusalem  and  all  of  Judea 
came  out  to  hear  the  preaching  of 
John,  and  were  baptized  of  him  in 
the  Jordan  river.  But  the  Phari- 
sees and  the  Sadducees  rejected  him 
and  he  pronounced  a  woe  against 
them  demanding  that  they  should 
bring  forth  fruits  meet  for  repent- 
ance. This  they  did  not  do,  they 
were  rebellious,  they  loved  dark- 
ness rather  than  light,  and  their 
deeds  were  evil.  They  went  so  far 
as  to  crucify  their  Lord.    As  a  re- 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


27 


suit  Jerusalem  was  trodden  down 
of  the  gentiles  and  the  people  of 
God  were  scattered  among  the  na- 
tions where  they  have  been  to  this 
day,  and  they  have  been  hated  and 
persecuted  because  of  the  stand 
which  they  took  at  that  time. 

But  we  can  see  a  day  of  deliver- 
ance coming-  for  Israel.  Jerusalem 
has  fallen  into  the  hands  of  the 
Christian  nations,  and  doubtless  this 
will  eventually  open  up  the  way  for 
the  return  of  the  Jews  to  Jerusalem, 
and  the  building  up  of  the  waste 
places  of  Palestine.  You  will  re- 
member that  the  Savior  stood  up- 
on Mount  Olivet  and  wept  over 
Jerusalem,  and  said,  "Oh,  Jeru- 
salem, Jerusalem,  how  often 
would  I  have  gathered  thy  children 
together  even  as  a  hen  gathereth 
her  chickens  under  her  wings,  but 
ye  would  not,"  thus  giving  evidence, 
as  I  have  said,  of  the  spirit  of  unre- 
pentance  and  of  rebellion.  And  let 
me  remind  you,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  coming  forth  of  the  work 
of  God  in  our  day,  of  the  true 
Church  and  kingdom  of  God  as  re- 
ferred to  by  President  Penrose  so 
powerfully  this  morning,  was  pred- 
icated upon  the  principle  of  repent- 
ance. In  an  early  day,  in  fact  it  was 
April,  1829,  the  Lord  said  to  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  "Say 
nothing  but  repentance  unto  this 
generation,  keep  my  commandments 
and  assist  to  bring  forth  my  work 
according  to  my  commandments  and 
you  shall  be  blessed."  Somewhat 
later  than  this,  in  the  year  1831, 
the  Lord  again  referred  to  this  im- 
portant subject  as  he  has  done  all 
through  the  Book  of  Covenants.  He 
spoke  of  the  great  necessity  of  his 
people,  and  the  people  of  the  world, 
repenting  of  their  sins  and  turning 
from  evil  unto  him.  Let  me  read  to 
you  a  few  words  of  that  impressive 


revelation.  Oh,  how  powerful  is 
the  word  of  the  Lord  when  it  comes 
direct  from  him  by  revelation  to  his 
servants.  The  language  is  simple 
enough,  a  child  could  understand  it, 
but  the  spirit  and  power  of  it  is  in- 
deed impressive.  Listen  to  these 
words : 

Lift  up  your  voices  and  spare  not. 
Call  upon  the  nations  to  repent,  both 
old  and  young,  both  bond  and  free, 
saying,  prepare  yourselves  for  ^lhe 
great  day  of  the  Lord; 

For  if  I,  who  am  a  man,  do  lift  up 
my  voice  and  call  upon  you  to  repent, 
and  ye  hate  me,  what  will  ye  say 
when  the  day  cometh  when  the  thun- 
ders shall  utter  their  voices  from  the 
ends  of  the  earth,  speaking  to  the  ears 
of  all  that  live,  saying,  Repent,  and 
prepare  for  the  great  day  of  the  Lord. 

Yea,  and  again,  when  the  lightnings 
shall  streak  forth  from  the  east  unto 
the  wes^t,  and  shah  after  forth  their 
voices  unto  all  that  live,  and  make 
the  ears  of  all  tingle  that  hear,  say- 
ing these  words.  Repent  ye,  for  the 
great  day  of  the  Lord  is  coming. 

And  again,  the  Lord  shall  utter  his 
voice  out  of  heaven,  saying,  Hearken, 
O  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  and  hear 
tha  words' of  that  God  who  made  you. 

O,  ye  nations  of  the  earth,  how  of- 
ten would  I  have  gathered  you  to- 
gether as  a  hen  gathereth  her  chick- 
ens under  her  v/ings,  but  ye  would 
not? 

How  oft  have  I  called  upon  you  by 
the  mouth  of  my  servants,  and  by  the 
ministering  of  angels,  and  by  mine 
own  voice,  and  by  the  voice  of  thun- 
derings,  and  by  the  voice  of  light- 
nings, and  by  the  voice  of  tempests, 
and  bv  the  voice  of  earthciuakes,  and 
preat  hailstorms,  and  by  the  voice  of 
famines  and  pestilences  of  every  kind, 
and  bv  the  great  sound  of  a  trumn. 
and  by  the  voice  .of  iudgment.  and 
by  the  voice  of  merry  all  the  dav  long, 
and  bv  the  voice  of  glory,  and  honor, 
and  the  riches  of  eternal  life,  and 
would  have  saved  you  with  an  ever- 
lasting salvation,  but  you  would  not' 

Toehold  the  dav  has  come,  when  the 
rim  of  the  wrath  of  mine  indignation 
is  full. 

Behold,  verily  T  say  unto  you,  that 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


these  arc  the  words  of  the  Lord  your 
God; 

Wherefore  labor  ye,  labor  ye  in  my 
vineyard  for  the  last  time — for  the  last 
time  call  upon  the  inhabitant  of  the 
earth. 

For  in  my  own  due  time  will  I  come 
upon  the  earth  in  judgment,  and  my 
people  shall  be  redeemed  and  shall 
reign  with  me  on  eartTi. 

For  the  great  Millennium,  of  which 
I  have  spoken  by  the  mouth  of  my 
servants,  shall  come. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  these  are  the 
words  of  the  Almighty,  and  they 
emphasize  and  confirm  the  words  of 
the  prophet  Isaiah  who  has  .spoken 
upon  this  subject.  O,  how  great  is 
the  mercy  of  the  Lord.  For  eighty- 
eight  years  this  people  have  lifted 
up  their  voices  at  home  and  abroad 
crying"  repentance  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  but  comparatively  few 
have  accepted  the  gospel,  and  now 
the  judgments  of  God  are  going 
forth  and  have  been  going  forth  all 
these  years,  for  the  simple  reason 
that  we  are  living  in  the  last  time. 
It  is  here.  The  Lord  has  so  de- 
clared it.  And  notwithstanding 
present  conditions,  that  the  wrJrkl 
today  is  in  turmoil  and  the  hearts 
of  men  are  failing  them  for  fear, 
not  knowing  what  will  be,  still,  as 
a  people,  we  have  received  a  promise 
from  the  Lord.  He  has  declared  it 
in  modern  revelation,  that  the  Mil- 
lennium, a  thousand  years  of  rest 
and  peace,  shall  come.  Didn't 
Isaiah  refer  to  this  matter  hundreds 
of  years  ago  when  he  said  that  God 
would  judge  the  nations  and  would 
rebuke  many  people  and  thev  will 
turn  their  swords  into  plow-shares 
and  their  spears  into  pruning  hooks, 
nation  shall  not  lift  up  the  sword 
against  nation  and  they  shall  learn 
war  no  more? 

And  so  we  may  be  very  certain, 
that  a  time  is  coming  when  there 
shall  be  no  more  war.  It  is  the  voice 


of  the  prophet,  it  is  the  voice  of  God 
unto  his  people ;  and  I  want  to  ,say 
to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  me, 
to  be  personal,  it  is  as  clear  as  the 
noon  day  sun  that  the  Central 
Powers  cannot  win  this  war  because 
if  thev  should  win  this  war  and  fix 
the  principle  of  militarism  perma- 
nently upon  the  earth,  the  Millenni- 
um could  not  come.  Militarism  must 
be  put  down.  It  is  the  purpose  of 
the  Allies  without  question  to  crush 
out  the  spirit  of  cruelty  and  of  van- 
dalism that  is  abroad  in  the  earth. 

I  do  not  say,  I  am  not  prepared  to 
sav,  that  this  is  the  last  great  war ; 
I  wouldn't  sav  that,  but  it  does  seem 
to  me  that  this  great  world  war,  the 
greatest  we  have  ever  known  or 
ever  read  of  in  history,  by  far  the 
greatest,  is  leading  up  to  the  Mil- 
lennium that  will  come.  I  enter- 
tain that  view  and  that  feeling,  and 
it  is  in  accordance  with  the  word  of 
the  Lord  which  must  eventually  be 
fulfilled.  The  earth  may  pass  away, 
the  stars  may  drop  from  their  or- 
bits, but  every  iot  and  tittle  of  the 
word  of  God  will  be  realized.  He  is 
a  God  of  truth  and  cannot  He ;  and 
let  me  repeat  to  you  that  surelv  this 
is  a  time  for  repentance  and  re- 
formation as  President  Penrose 
suggested  this  morning  so  beaut1'- 
fullv,  a  time  to  draw  near  to  the 
Lord  in  faith  and  by  prayer.  This 
is  a  time  to  honor  the  priesthood, 
surelv,  to  honor  that  great  principle 
of  divine  authoritv  which  has  been 
given  to  the  Church.  This  is  a  tune  , 
of  all  times  to  pay  our  tithes  and 
our  offerings  to  the  Lord.  To  give 
to  him  his  iust  dues  since  he  has 
onened  the  windows  of  heaven  and 
blessed  us  so  abundantlv  as  a  people 
and  as  individuals.  This  is  a  time 
to  keep  the  Avord  of  wisdom  our- 
selves right  now.  todav,  and  to  teach 
our  children  to  do  the  same.  It  is,  I 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL 


29 


take  it,  the  law  of  health  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  given  for  their 
blessing,  for  their  peace  and  for 
their  prosperity.  It  also  brings 
spiritual  gifts,  such  as  wisdom  and 
knowledge.  And  above  all  things  it 
is  a  time  for  solemn  prayer  to  the 
Lord.  We  surely  cannot  reach  him 
nor  get  near  to  him  without  the  ex- 
ercise of  faith  in  prayer. 

In  conclusion  I  am  constrained  to 
read  the  last  verse  of  a  hymn  that 
was  sung  at  the  morning  session: 

'•Hark,  from  all  lands,  from  the  isles 
of  the  ocean, 
Praise    to    Jehovah    ascending  on 
high ; 

Fallen  are  engines  of  war  and  commo- 
tion, 

Shouts  of  salvation  are  rending  the 
sky." 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  guide 
us  by  his  Spirit,  sustain  us  in 
every  trying  situation  and  event- 
ually bring  us  off  victorious,  is  my 
prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Norman  McCarty  sang  a  tenor 
.solo:  "How  lovely  are  thy  dwell- 
ings." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

I  have  to  confess  that  I  am  cer- 
tainly taken  by  surprise.  I  had  no 
expectation  whatever  of  being  called 
upon  at  this  time.  I  do  hope  that  the 
few  minutes  that  I  occupy  I  may  be 
favored  of  the  Lord  and  be  influ- 
enced by  his  Holy  Spirit.  I  have  had 
experience  enough  along  this  line  of 
work  to  realize  that  the  servants  of 
God,  when  they  speak,  should  speak 
under  the  influence  of  the  Holy 
Spirit ;  that  the  servants  of  God 


are  entitled,  if  they  do  the  will  of 
the  Father,  to  revelation  and  inspi- 
ration. The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
says  that  no  man  should  testify  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  unless  it  be  by 
the  Spirit  of  prophecy  and  revela- 
tion. I  am  a  very  strong  believer 
in  this,  although  we  are  not  always 
under  his  influence. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  do  not 
think  that  you  question  my  integrity 
and  my  loyalty  and  patriotism  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  I  think  there  are 
times  when  you  have  questioned 
very  much  what  I  say  to  you,  and 
criticized  me  very  severely  some- 
times, but  I  get  a  good  deal  of  com- 
fort out  of  the  fact  that  none  of  the 
rest  of  you  escape  any  better  than 
I  do.  Our  people  and  the  children 
of  men  are  very  ready  to  criticize 
the  brethren  of  the  authorities  and 
the  local  brethren  who  preside  over 
the  stakes  and  over  the  wards.  They 
seem  to  feel  that  it  is  their  right, 
and  they  certainly  take  advantage 
of  it,  some  of  them ;  so  that  I  am 
not  discouraged  at  all.  I  often  won- 
der when  you  do  have  the  Spirit 
of  God.  I  used  to  think  I  had  it 
in  the  Southern  States,  when  I  be- 
came excited  and  sensational,  and 
my  face  was  red,  and  the  cords  of- 
my  neck  were  swollen — I  thought 
then,  in  my  ignorance,  that  it  was 
the  Holy  Ghost.  I  learned  differ- 
ently afterwards.  I  am  sure  that 
was  not  the  Spirit  of  God.  I  have 
learned  since  that  the  Spirit  of  God 
gives  you  joy  and  peace  and  pa- 
tience and  long-suffering  and  gen- 
tleness, and  you  have  the  spirit  of 
forgiveness  and  you  love  the  souls 
of  the  children  of  men.  I  have 
learned  that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the 
spirit  of  prophecy  and  the  spirit  of 
revelation.  I  often  think,  when  I 
reflect  along  this  line,  sometimes 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


when  I  have  preached  and  per- 
haps in  my  egotism  I  thought  I  had 
the  Spirit  of  God,  but  after  some 
of  the  brethren  talked  to  me  I  was 
very  doubtful  about  it.  I  think  of  my 
father — our  father,  the  father  of  a 
great  race  of  people — he  prophecied 
once  somewhere  on  these  temple 
grounds,  when  the  people  were  in 
poverty,  when  they  were  almost  dis- 
heartened, and  things  looked  so 
dark  and  dreary  before  them.  He- 
ber  C.  Kimball    prophecied  that 
goods  would  be  sold  as  cheaply  in 
Salt  Lake  City  as  in  New  York. 
After  he  (sat  down,  lie  said  ko 
Brigham    Young,  "Well,  Brother 
Brig-ham,  I  have  done  it  now." 

Brother  Brigham  said,  "Never 
mind,  Heber ;  let  it  go." 

They  did  not.  either  one  of  them, 
believe  it  (Laughter; 

After  the  meeting  adjourned, 
Apostle  Charles  C.  Rich,  I  am  told, 
went  up  to  Heber  C.  Kimball,  and 
he  said,  "Heber,  I  don't  believe  a 
word  you  said." 

Heber    said:    "Neither    do  I." 

(Laughter.)     But  he  rounded  it 
out:    "But  God  hath  spoken." 

,  It  was  not  Heber  at  all ;  it  was 
Cod  who' spoke  through  Heber  as 
a  prophet.  A  short  time  after,  the 
prophecy  was  literally  fulfilled. 

So  that  sometimes,  and  very  of- 
ten, the  servants  of  God  speak  by 
the  Spirit  of  God,  but  some  of  the 
people  haven't  got  the  same  spirit, 
and  do  not  believe  the  servants  of 
God.  Now,  brethren,  I  want  to  ex- 
press to  you  this  thought,  that  it  is 
just  as  necessary  for  you  Latter- 
day  Saints  to  have  the  Spirt  of  God 
as  it  is  for  the  apostles  and  the 
seventies  and  the  presidents  of 
stakes  and  the  bishops,  for  when 
you  speak,  or  when  the  servants  of 


God  speak  under  the  influence  of 
the  Holy  Spirit,  it  is  the  word  of 
God  to  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

I  do  not  care  whether  you  like 
the  mannerism  or  the  crudity  of 
the  speaker.  That  does  not  make 
any  difference,  whatever;  it  is  the 
word  of  God  to  you. 

Now,  brethren,  in  a  few  words: 
I  was  very  glad  to  hear  Brother 
Penrose  speak  of  the  seventies.  We 
are  laboring  under  great  difficul- 
ties in  order  to  find  men  who  are 
prepared  to  go  out  as  witnesses  of 
the  Lord  to  the  nations  of  the  earth. 
I  was  at  a  seventies'  meeting  not 
long  ago  in  the  Richmond  ward, 
and  there  were  forty-five  seventies 
there— a  very    splendid    body  of 
priesthood— and    I    said:  "Now, 
brethren,  I  don't  want  to  talk  mis- 
sion to  you  if  you  have  to  go  to 
war.    I  guess  it  would  be  a  good 
thing  to  find  out  how  many  of  you 
are  between  the  ages  of  eighteen 
and  forty-five."  Over  forty  of  them 
stood  up.    I  told  them  to  go  to  war 
as  soon  as  they  could,  and  on  their 
return,  after  peace  is  declared,  be 
prepared  to  preach  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.    That  is  about  the 
condition.    The  Lord  said,  not  only 
to  the  seventies  but  to  the  priest- 
hood of  God:    "If  you  desire  'to 
serve  ?  God,  you  are  called  to  the 
work."    I  have  that  desire  burning 
m  my  heart,  like  a  living  fire,  and 
so  has  every  other  man  who  holds 
the  priesthood  of  God  and  has  the 
spirit  of  his  appointment.  Again 
in  that  same  revelation,  the  Lord 
tells  us  what  qualifies  us  for  the 
work    It  is  not  money.    What  is 
it?    It  is  faith,  hope,  charity  and 
love,  with  an  eye  single  to  the  glory 
ot  God,  and  any  man  who  holds  the 
priesthood  of  God,  who  has  those 
gifts,  he  is  qualified  and  fitted  for 
the  work.    All  he  needs  is  to  be 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


31 


called  to  the  work  by  those  holding 
divine  authority. 

In  conclusion :  I  have  worked  in 
the  Church,  perhaps  not  as  well  as 
I  might  have  done,  but  I  have 
staked  everything  on  it.  As  I  told 
a  man  one  day,  I  had  fifty-two 
cards  in  the  beginning.  I  never 
played  cards  in  my  life — only  smut. 
But  to  illustrate :  I  am  not  a  card 
player,  but  in  the  begining  I  had 
fifty-two  of  them — that  is  a  deck,  I 
think.  Some  of  you  seventies  are 
better  informed,  perhaps,  than  I, 
but  at  the  present  time  I  have  only 
one  card  left.  Do  you  know  what 
I  have  staked  it  on  ?  Eternal  life ; 
and  if  I  fail  in  that  I  have  failed  in 
everything.  Why?  Because  "sal- 
vation is  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to 
his  children."  Of  all  the  gifts  and 
all  the  blessings  that  God  can  give 
to  his  children,  the  "greatest  gift  is 
salvation."  If  you  leave  your  father 
and  if  you  leave  your  mother,  your 
wife  and  your  children,  and  your 
flocks  and  your  herds,  and  all  that 
you  have,  and  go  out  as  a  witness 
for  God,  he  has  promised  you  an 
hundred  fold.  All  the  investments 
I  ever  made  in  my  life,  except  the 
one  of  two  Liberty  Bonds  I  have 
been  able  to  pay  for,  at  four  per 
cent,  I  have  paid  from  eighteen  per 
cent  down,  and  all  I  got  out  of  it 
was  experience ;  the  other  fellow 
got  my  money.  (Laughter.)  But 
this  investment  we  have  started  out 
for,  the  Lord  has  promised  you  an 
hundred  fold,  and  I  pray  God  that 
this  spirit  may  burn  in  the  hearts  of 
the  priesthood  of  God,  that  every 
man  shall  understand  for  himself, 
as  I  understand  for  myself,  that  the 
priesthood  of  God  is  "inseparably 
connected  with  heaven."  That  is 
what  places  us  in  communication 
with  our  God. 

I  know,  as  well  as  I  know  any- 


thing, that  this  is  the  kingdom  of 
God,  that  this  is  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of 
God,  that  Joseph  F.  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  have  always  sus- 
tained the  prophets  of  God,  and  I 
never  talked  with  one  of  the  Pres- 
idency of  the  Church  that  I  did  not 
rise  to  my  feet  and  know  that  they 
were  prophets  of  God.  The  Lord 
bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

'  T 

It  is  a  matter  of  great  satisfac- 
tion to  me  to  be  present  here  in 
this  general  conference  of  the 
Church,  and  I  have  been  greatly 
pleased  in  listening  to  the  words 
that  have  been  spoken ;  and.  with 
all  of  the  rest  of  my  brethren  I 
have  rejoiced  exceedingly  in  seeing 
the  face  of  our  beloved  President 
with  us  here  this  morning. 

Reference  was  made  this  morn- 
ing to  the  work  of  the  seventies. 
President  Penrose,  in  his  splendid 
address,  spoke  of  the  obligation 
that  rests  upon  the  Church  of  send- 
ing the  "Gospel  of  the  Kingdom" 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  Presi- 
dent Lund  -  likewise  spoke  of  this 
great  missionary  labor,  and  the  im- 
pression has  been  made  upon  my 
mind,  as  no  doubt  it  has  been  made 
upon  the  minds  of  all  of  my  breth- 
ren who  constitute  the  membership 
of  the  Seventies'  quorums,  who  are 
present  here,  that  the  special  duty 
of  carrying  that  message  to  our 
Father's  children  has  been  laid  up- 
on our  shoulders. 

We  live  in  the  day  that  has  been 
spoken  of  by  the  prophets ;  we  see 
the  signs  of  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  Man,  and  of  what  is  called  the 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


end  of  the  world.  It  is  no  doubt 
this  universal  war  (the  like  of 
which  has  never  been  known)  that 
now  impresses  the  minds  of  men 
that  we  live  in  that  wonderful  day. 
After  the  Savior  had  been  predict- 
ing the  destruction  of  the  temple, 
his  disciples  came  to  him  privately, 
saying:  "Tell  us  when  shall  these 
things  be,  and  what  shall  be  the 
sign  of  thy  coming,  and  of  the 
end  of  the  world?"  And  in  reply, 
after  telling  of  the  wars  and  rumors 
of  wars  which  preceded  the  fall  of 
Jerusalem,  he  said,  among  other 
things,  "For  nation  shall  rise 
against  nation  and  kingdom  against 
kingdom ;  and  there  shall  be  fam- 
ines, and  pestilences,  and  earth- 
quakes, in  divers  places"  (Matt. 
24:1-7). 

And  doubtless  the  apostle  John 
beheld  in  vision  the  same  eventful 
day  when  he  declared,  "And  I  saw 
another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of 
heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gos- 
pel to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation, 
and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and'  peo- 
ple, saying  with  a  loud  voice,  "Fear 
God,  and  give  glory  to  him ;  for 
the  hour  of  his  judgment  is  come" 
(Rev.  14:6). 

These  words  have  been  literally 
fulfilled,  for  the  nations  and  the 
kingdoms  of  this  world  have  been 
arrayed  against  each  other  in  the 
most  gigantic  and  greatest  war  the 
world  has  ever  known.  Famines, 
pestilences  and  earthquakes  have 
occurred  in  divers  places.  Let  all 
men  repent  and  turn  to  the  Lord 
for  indeed  "the  hour  of  his  judg- 
ment is  come." 

Another  sign  of  the  Lord's  com- 
ing and  of  the  end  of  the  world, 
given  by  the  Savior  himself,  was 
this :  "And  this  gospel  of  the  king- 
dom shall  be  preached  in  all  the 


world,  for  a  witness  unto  all  na- 
tions ;  and  then  shall  the  end  come" 
(Matt.  24:14). 

And  this  was  the  vision  of  John 
when  he  saw  the  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven  having  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  to  preach  unto  them 
that  dwell  on  the  earth. 

These  words,  too,  have  been  ful- 
filled for  the  angel  came,  the  ever- 
lasting gospel  has  been  restored  to 
earth,  and  this  gospel  of  the  king- 
dom is  being  "preached  in  all  the 
world  for  a  witness  unto  all  na- 
tions," and  when  this  labor  is  com- 
pleted, "then  shall  the  end  come." 

In  the  establishment  of  this 
Church  the  quorums  of  the  Seventy 
have  been  organized  with  the  spe- 
cial mission  of  carrying  into  effect 
this  obligation,  that  our  Father's 
children  might  receive  the  truth,  be 
brought  into  the  fold,  and  escape 
the  judgments  which  are  to  come. 
It  is  well,  therefore,  for  our  breth- 
ren of  the  quorums  of  the  Seven- 
ties, to  understand  something  of 
their  obligation  and  of  the  purpose 
of  these  organizations,  and  the  rela- 
tionship which  they  bear  to  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  It  is  with  the  quorums 
of  the  Seventies  as  it  is  with  other 
quorums — they  bear  the  same  rela- 
tionship to  the  Church ;  they  are  or- 
ganized into  quorums  of  the  priest- 
hood, to  fit  and  to  qualify  them- 
selves for  their  various'  lines  of  ser- 
vice in  the  upbuilding  of  the  Church 
of  Christ  upon  the  earth.  When 
we  are  privileged  to  be  at  home 
and  associate  with  our  brethren  in 
quorum  capacity  we  are  in  out 
training  camps,  drilling  and  train- 
ing ourselves  for  the  service  that 
we  are  to  render  to  the  Church, 
and  when  the  Church  calls  us  we 
are  expected  to  respond.  Where 
is  our  first  allegiance?   There  have 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


33 


sometimes  been  misunderstandings 
existing  among  the  brethren,  and 
some  have  said,  "My  first  alle- 
giance is  to  my  priesthood,  and  no- 
body should  interfere  or  assign  me 
to  any  duty  that  in  any  way  inter- 
feres with  my  quorum  work  in  the 
quorum  where  I  belong."  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  presides  over 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  all  the  world,  at 
the  present  time,  and  when  he 
speaks  for  the  Church,  and  as  the 
mouthpiece  of  God  unto  the  people, 
and  if  service  is  required,  he  may 
call  from  any  of  the  quorums  of  the 
priesthood  men  to  render  the  spe- 
cial lines  of  service  and  of  labor, 
for  which  they  should  have  been 
qualifying  and  preparing  them- 
selves in  their  training  camps.  So, 
if  Seventies  are  needed  to  preach 
the  gospel  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth,  the  call  will  come  from  that 
source,  and  being  endowed  with 
power  from  on  high,  and  divinely 
called,  they  go  forth  as  witnesses 
for  the  Lord  and  carry  the  gospel 
message ;  and  if  any  other  service 
is  required  of  those  who  hold  the 
priesthood  or  of  any  member  of 
the  Church,  all  are  subject  to  that 
call,  the  call  of  the  Church. 

In  every  stake  of  Zion  there  is  a 
president  of  the  stake ;  he  is  the 
president  of  the  church  in  that 
stake ;  every  institution,  every  or- 
ganization, and  every  member  of 
that  stake  is  under  the  jurisdiction 
of  that  stake  president ;  for  he  is 
the  president  of  the  church  in 
that  stake  of  Zion.  His  juris- 
diction, however,  is  limited  to  the 
boundaries  of  his  stake ;  and  if  the 
service  of  any  man,  any  membe: 
of  the  Church  is  needed  in  the  work 
of  the  ministry,  in  the  building  up 
of  the  Church,  in  the  work  and  the 
labor  of  that  stake  of  Zion,  it  is  his 


prerogative  to  call,  and  it  is  the  duty 
of  every  member  of  the  Church,  be 
he  high  priest,  seventy,  elder,  or  a 
member  of  the  lesser  priesthood, 
residing  in  his  stake,  to  respond  to 
that  call. 

In  every  ward  there  is  a  bishop. 
He,  besides  being  a  bishop  and  a 
common  judge  in  Israel,  has  been 
ordained  a  high  priest,  and  set  apart 
to  preside  in  that  ward.  He  is  the 
president  of  the  church  in  his  ward, 
and  has  jurisdiction  over  every  in- 
stitution and  over  every  member  of 
the  Church  in  his  ward  and  has  the 
right  to  call  them  to  his  aid  in  be- 
half of  the  Church.  His  jurisdic- 
tion is  limited  to  the  boundaries 
of  the  ward. 

It  is  essential  that  we  should 
have  the  priesthood.  We  cannot  do 
without  it.  The  Church  could  not 
perform  its  labor  without  the  priest- 
hood, for  this  is  the  work  of  God 
and  he  has  endowed  his  Church 
and  his  servants  who  hold  the 
priesthood  with  power  from  on 
high  giving  them  the  right  to  of- 
ficiate in  his  name,  and  he  recog- 
nizes their  official  acts  just  pre- 
cisely the  same  as  if  he  had  per- 
formed those  acts  himself. 

So,  without  the  priesthood,  the 
work  of  the  Church  could  not  be 
done,  and  therefore  the  priesthood 
is  paramount ;  but  the  Church, 
through  its  presiding  authority,  di- 
rects the  labors  of  the  priesthood, 
and  it  is  the  duty  of  every  man 
who  holds  that  priesthood  to  re- 
spond to  the  call  of  the  Church. 

Our  soldier  boys  have  been  in 
their  training  camps,  subject  to  the 
call  of  their  Country  through  the 
commander-in-chief.  They  have 
been  qualifying  themselves  in  their 
drills  and  in  their  exercises,  that 
they  might  become  capable  and  ef- 
ficient soldiers  to  battle  for  life 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  liberty  on  the  battle  fields  of 
France  and  of  Europe.   They  have 
been    armed    with  the  necessary 
weapons  to  carry  on  the  great  war 
for  human  liberty,  and  they  have 
learned  how  to  wield  those  weapons 
to  the  greatest  advantage.  They 
have  been  clothed  in  their  Country's 
uniform,  let  no  others  presume  to 
wear  it.    The  call  came  and  now 
they  are  fighting  the  enemies  of  hu- 
man liberty,  and  in  doing  this  they 
are  opening  the  gospel  door  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth.   This  is  a  part 
of  the  work  of  God,  for  his  design 
is  that  his  children  shall  be  free  in- 
deed, free  from  oppression,  free 
from  tyranny  and  despotic  rule,  and 
therefore  they  are  engaged  in  the 
cause  of  righteousness  and  truth. 
Success  attend  them  in  their  bat- 
tles and  give  them  a  glorious  vic- 
tory over  all  of  their  foes ! 

And  while  our  enlisted  boys  in 
khaki  are  fighting  for  civil  liberty, 
let  all  the  priesthood  battle  for  the 
freedom  of  the  soul  against  the 
arch  enemy  of  God,  who  seeks  to 
enslave  the  soul,  the  tyrant  that 
would  make  us  slaves  indeed,  put- 
ting us  under  the  bondage  of  sin. 
Let  us  go  into  our*  training  camps, 
into  the  quorums  of  the  priesthood  ; 
we  have  been  armed  with  the  shield 
of  faith  and  the  sword  of  truth.  Let 
us  learn  by  drilling  how  to  wield 
these  weapons  that  we  may  success- 
fully combat  the  powers  of  evil. 
We  have  been  clothed  with  divine 
authority,   the   uniform   of  God's 
soldiers.    Let  no  others  presume  to 
wear  it ;  and  when  the  Church  calls, 
through  the  commander-in-chief,  let 
us  go  forth  and  battle  for  the  great 
cause  of  spiritual  liberty,  and^God 
will  give  success  to  our  arms. 

Let  the  Seventies  realize  that 
they  are  enlisted  in  the  armies  of 
the  Lord.    They  belong  to  the  se- 


lective draft,  to  go  forth  and  fight 
the  battles  of  the  Lord.  There 
may  be  other  volunteers,  from  the 
elders'  quorums,  and  from  the  high 
priests'  quorums,  as  their  circum- 
stances shall  allow,  but  we  are  in 
the  draft,  and  let  us  respond  when- 
ever the  call  shall  come  to  do  our 
duty,  and  fight  the  battle  of  human 
liberty.  God  help  us  to  do  it,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS. 

(President    of    the     Southern  States 
Mission.) 

I  earnestly  pray,  my  dear  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  by  his 
Holy  Spirit  will  enable  me  to  say 
something  that  will  be  for  our  good. 
I  testify  in  earnestness  of  spirit  that 
the  speakers  this  day  have  spoken 
under  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost, 
and  therefore  their  words  have  gone 
to  the  hearts  of  those  who  heard 
them.     With  you  I  rejoice  with 
all  my  soul  that  God  blessed  us 
with  the  presence  and  counsels  of 
his  Prophet  this  morning.    The  life 
of  our  leader,  President  Smith,  his 
splendid  life,  given  in  the  service 
of  our  heavenly  Father,  is  an  in- 
spiration, not  only  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  but  to  those  who  have  not 
yet  become  members  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ.    As  I  gazed  upon 
his  countenance  this  morning,  and 
as  my  soul  was  thrilled  with  his 
inspired  words,  the  promise  that 
the  Lord  made  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph came  to  me.  That  promise  was 
this,  that  the  testimony  of  traitors 
should  never  turn  the  people  of  God 
against  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith; 
and  that  promise  is  a  continuing 
one.    It  has  been  realized  in  the 
life  of  President  Smith ;  for  never 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


35 


was  a  leader  held  in  more  love  and 
affection  than  is  the  present  leader 
of  the  Church  today. 

The  Lord  Jesus  Christ  said : 
"Except  a  corn  of  wheat  fall  into 
the  ground  and  die,  it  abideth 
alone ;  but  if  it  die,  it  bringeth  forth 
much  fruit." 

The  world  today  is  immersed  in 
the  spirit  of  sacrifice.  This  nation 
today  is  finding  itself  through  the 
glorious  mission  that  it  is  perform- 
ing. Sacrifice,  we  are  told,  brings 
forth  the  blessings  of  heaven,  and 
the  Lord  Jesus  said  that  it  is  more 
blessed  to  give  than  to  receive.  The 
mothers  of  this  nation  today  are 
sowing  precious  seeds  in  this  great 
conflict.  The  mothers  in  Israel, 
many  of  them,  have  been  deprived 
voluntarily,  however,  of  the  com- 
pany of  their  sons,  by  reason  of 
them  being  on  missions,  and  many 
of  these  boys,  after  two  years  or 
two  years  and  six  months'  absence, 
have  returned  home  only  to  em- 
brace their  mothers  and  then  go 
into  this  awful  world  conflict.  Can 
the  world  point  to  more  sublime 
faith  and  sacrifice  than  these  patri- 
otic mothers  are  making?  This 
faith  did  not  spring  from  the  earth. 
It  is  not  earthy.  It  is  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  which  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation,  that  sus- 
tains these  mothers,  and  that  has 
given  birth  to  this  glorious  faith 
which  all  men  everywhere  cannot 
help  but  praise  and  admire.  For 
what  is  more  sacred  and  divine 
than  the  faith  of  a  mother  ?  If  this 
gospel  were  a  base  system,  if  the 
leaders,  the  priesthood  of  this 
Church,  were  designing  men,  bent 
only  upon  achieving  the  subjuga- 
tion of  the  people  to  their  own 
pleasure  and  will,  how  could  such 
a  faith  as  that  arise  out  of  this  sys- 
tem?   I  want  to  bear  testimony  to 


you  that  the  splendid  faith  of  these 
mothers  is  a  living,  abiding,  perma- 
nent testimony  that  this  Church  is 
of  God,  and  that  the  gospel  is  in- 
deed the  power  of  God  unto  salva- 
tion. 

In  the  days  of  Kirtland,  in  the 
darkest  hour  of  the  history  of  the 
Church,  the  very  midnight  of  its 
history,  when  the  powers  of  evil 
were  attempting  to  destroy  the 
Church,  the  word  of  the  Lord  came 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph:  "Something 
new  must  be  done  for  the  salvation 
of  my  Church."  And  then  Joseph, 
always  imbued  with  the  spirit  of 
sacrifice,  sowed  corns  of  wheat  in 
the  ground,  so  to  speak.  He  took 
his  choice  servant,  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball, and  he  called  upon  Willard 
Richards,  two  stalwart  defenders  of 
the  prophet  and  of  the  gospel ;  and 
these  men  with  others,  he  sent  to 
England  to  preach  the  gospel,  be- 
cause it  was  the  will  of  the  Lord 
that  they  should  go.  Oh,  what  a 
splendid  spectacle  —  the  prophet, 
surrounded  by  traitors,  some,  alas, 
in  the  Church,  surrounded  by  en- 
emies, voluntarily  depriving  him- 
self of  the  support  of  these  two 
pillars  of  the  Church,  whom  he 
sent  to  Great  Britain  to  open  up  the 
gospel  door  to  the  inhabitants  of 
that  great  land.  And  when  they 
arrived  in  Preston,  behold,  their 
eyes  met  this  inscription  written  up- 
on a  banner :  "Truth  will  prevail." 
It  did  prevail.  It  shall  ever  pre- 
vail, because  this  work  is  the  truth 
of  God,  and  truth  is  imperishable ; 
it  is  of  God,  and  like  God,  it  is 
eternal  and  shall  live  forever. 

The  Apostle  Paul  said:  "For 
ye  know  the  grace  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  that  though  he  was 
rich,  yet  for  your  sakes  he  became 
poor,  that  ye,  through  his  poverty, 
might  be  rich."    Ah,  there  is  the 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


grand  principle  of  sacrifice.  I  tell 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
the  life  that  is  lived  for  self  is  use- 
less to  our  fellow  men  and  to  the 
Lord.  When  a  man  lives  and  works 
for  himself  he  begins  to  die,  be- 
cause there  is  no  life  in  work 
wrought  for  one's  self.  The  work 
that  has  life  and  progress  in  it  is 
the  work  that  is  done  for  our  fel- 
low men,  and  the  Book  of  Mormon 
says  that  "When  ye  are  in  the  ser- 
vice of  your  fellow  men  ye  are  only 
in  the  service  of  your  God." 

Well,  these  mothers  whose  sons 
are  going  to  fight  the  battles  of 
liberty,  what  fruits  are  we  going 
to  receive  from  that  splendid  and 
sacred  sacrifice?    First  of  all,  the 
words  of  the  prophets  of  God  will 
be  fulfilled  by  the  utter  defeat  and 
demoralization  of  that  power  which 
was  once  flung  from  the  battle- 
ments  of   heaven   into   the  very 
bosom  of  hell.    Again,  out  of  this 
world  conflict  will  come  a  period  of 
peace,  of  rest ;  how  long  we  know 
not ;  but  in  this  period  of  peace  the 
servants  of  God  will  go  forth  to 
^preach  the  everlasting  gospel,  and 
countless  thousands  shall  come  into 
the  Church,  praising  God  because 
they  accepted  the  glorious  message 
brought  to  them  by  his  servants. 
Again,  another  fruit  of  this  conflict, 
of  this  sacrifice,  will  be  this — a  new 
Jerusalem  of  liberty,  of  the  rights 
of  men,  shall  descend  out  of  the 
firmament  of  liberty;  it  shall  rest 
upon  the  earth,  and  the  right  of  ev- 
ery man  to  life,  liberty,  and  the 
pursuit  of  happiness  shall  be  estab- 
lished, let  us  pray,  nevermore  to 
perish  from  the  earth!    God  bless 
our  armies.  May  they  go  forth  with 
invincible  power.     Oh,  may  God 
bring  the  people  to  repentance,  that 
they  may  escape  a  prolongation  of 
this  terrible  conflict;  for  when  sin- 


cere repentance  begins,  then  we 
may  expect,  nay,  we  have  faith  that 
the  end  of  this  war  will  soon  be  in 
sight. 

I  feel,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  in  Israel  there  is  no  disposi- 
tion to  be  a  stumbling  block  to  our 
brethren.    But  if  I  by  my  reckless- 
ness or  indiscretion  in  using  any 
civic  right  I  have  make  a  stumbling 
block  for  the  young  man,  in  encour- 
aging the  saloon,  or  by  using  things 
which  God  hath  forbidden,  if  I 
forget  myself  and  I  cause  that  boy 
to  take  the  first  step  in  his  down- 
ward career,  oh,  God  help  me  to 
remember  this  awful  truth,  ':hat  I 
am  starting  the  boy  down  the  track, 
but  I  can  never  repent  for  aim, 
for  repentance  is  an  individual  gift 
which  God  hath  given.    Let  us  re- 
member it.    As  a  man  cannot  di- 
videt  his  righteousness  with  his  fel- 
low men — for  each  and  every  one 
of  us  must  work  out  our  salvation 
in  fear  and  in  trembling — let  us  also 
remember  that  we  cannot  repent  for 
our  fellow  men.  We  can  preach  the 
gospel  to  them ;  we  can  console 
them;  we  can  call  them  to  repent- 
ance, but  after  all,  repentance  is  a 
gift  from  God  and  comes  only  to 
the  penitent  and  repentant  heart. 
So  let  us  keep  this  lesson  in  view, 
that  with  the  help  of  our  heavenly 
Father  no  word,  no  act  of  ours  shall 
ever  be  the  means  of  creating  a 
stumbling  block  for  the  youth  of 
Israel. 

God  bless  the  gospel.  In  the  mis- 
sions it  is  growing  by  leaps  and  by 
bounds.  During  the  past  six  months 
we  have  witnessed  miraculous  and 
sudden  conversions  to  the  truth. 
There  was  an  apostle  in  the  South- 
ern States  mission  about  two  years 
ago;  and  a  woman  who  was  af- 
flicted with  the  dread  malady  of 
pellagra  in  a  state  pronounced  in- 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


37 


curable,  asked  to  be  administered 
to.  She  was  administered  to  by  this 
servant  of  the  Lord.  Eighteen 
months  later  this  woman  came  to 
me.  I  did  not  recognize  her,  there 
was  such  a  marked  improvement  in 
her  condition.  "Why,"  she  said,  "I 
am  the  one  whom  you  and  Brother 

 ■  administered  to,  and  I  am 

healed.  The  power  of  God  hath 
healed  me." 

Again,  this  same  apostle,  in  bid- 
ding adieu  to  the  Saints  in  one  of 
our  branches,  when  shaking  hands 
with  a  good,  faithful  sister,  whose 
husband  was  not  in  the  Church,  and 
we  had  well  nigh  given  up  hopes  of 
him  ever  coming  into  the  Church, 
said:  "Sister,  I  promise  you  that 
the  desires  of  your  heart  shall  be 
realized,  and  your  husband  will 
come  into  the  Church."  Imagine 
my  deep  pleasure,  for  the  poor 
wife  had  almost  despaired  of  see- 
ing this  promise  realized — she  kept 
it  sacred,  told  no  one  about  it— 
when  the  day  came  only  a  few 


weeks  ago  that  her  husband  experi- 
enced a  change  of  heart.  It  was 
miraculous.  God's  power  touched 
his  heart,  and  he  came  to  me  and 
said :  "Brother  Callis,  I  want  to  be 
baptized,"  and  we  all  joined '  in 
shedding  tears  of  joy  with  that  de- 
voted and  faithful  wife  who  had 
experienced  the  fulfilment  of  this 
inspired  promise. 

I  know  the  gospel  is  true.  I  bear 
testimony  to  it  in  humility,  and  in 
deep  gratitude,  and  with  the  fer- 
vent desire  that  I  may  ever  conduct 
myself  so  that  I  shall  be  worthy  of 
this  testimony  abiding  in  me,  is  my 
earnest  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Do  What  is  Right." 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sat- 
urday morning,  10  o'clock. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  President  Joseph  E.  Robinson,  of 
the  California  Mission. 


SECOND  DAY. 


In  the  Tabernacle,  Saturday,  Oct. 
5,  1018.  10  a.  m. 

The  congregation  was  called  to 
order  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "Come  come,  ye  Saints, 
no  toil  nor  labor  fear." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Joseph  S.  Geddes,  president  of  the 
Oneida  stake  of  Zinn. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "Hail  to  the  man  who 
communed  with  Jehovah." 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 

Why  America  was  discovered — Co- 
lumbus and  the  Western  World — 
Not  an  accident — Nephi  and  the 
Land  of  Promise — What  "Gentile" 
means — Lamanites  or  Indians- 
Discovery  and  colonization — The 
War  for  Independence  —  Material 
prosperity — America's  future — Our 
Country's  real  glory — Fulfiling  her 
mission. 

The  twelfth  day  of  October, 
1918,  will  be  the  four  hundred  and 
twenty-sixth  anniversary  of  the 
discovery  of  America  by  Columbus, 
and  the  day  has  been  set  apart  by 
proclamation  of  the  President  of 
the  United  States  for  general  ob- 
servance throughout  the  nation.  It 
might  not  be  amiss,  at  this  general 
conference  of  the  Church  to  antici- 
pate that  observance,  in  so  far,  at 
least,  as  to  make  reference  to  this 
great  and  illustrious  event  and  to 
some  of  the  issues  that  have  grown 
out  of  it.  I  cannot  hope  to  elabor- 
ate my  theme ;  the  time  is  too  lim- 
ited for  that ;  but  will  give  it  to  you 
in  headlines,  as    Brother  Roberts 


would  say,  merely  throwing  out  a 
few  thoughts  which  you  can  clothe 
for  yourselves  at  your  leisure^ 

Columbus  discovered  America  in 
the  year  1492.  He  was  not  the  first 
white  man  to  tread  the  soil  of  the 
New  World.  Five  hundred  years 
before  his  time  an  Icelandic  sailor, 
Lief  Erickson,  with  a  band  of  dar- 
ing spirits,  grounded  keel  on  the 
shores  of  New  England,  named  by 
him  Vinland  (Vine  Land)  from 
the  wild  grapes  that  grew  there  in 
profusion.  They  built  a  few  huts, 
but  did  not  make  a  permanent  set- 
tlement, did  not  remain  very  long. 
Other  Norsemen  followed  in  their 
wake.  But  no  tidings  of  these  ad- 
venturous exploits  had.  penetrated 
to  the  other  European  nations  when 
Columbus  started  upon  his  great 
voyage. 

Columbus  believed  that  the  earth 
was  round,  but  he  was  not  the  first 
to  entertain  that  theory.  Sir  John 
Mandeville,  an  English  traveler, 
wrote  a  treatise  upon  the  subject  in 
1356,  long  before  Columbus  was 
born,  having  become  convinced  of 
it  by  astronomical  observations. 
That  treatise  is  said  to  be  "the  very 
first  English  book  that  ever  was 
written"  (Ridpath's  History  of  the 
United  States,  chapter  3).  Most  of 
the  people  of  that  time  believed  the 
earth  to  be  flat  or  shaped  like  a 
cheese,  and  that  one  had  but  to  sail 
westward  a  certain  .distance  beyond 
the  Pillars  of  Hercules — the  Strait 
of  Gibraltar — and  he  would  come 
to  "the  slipping  off  place,"  and  go 
down  and  be  heard  from  no  more. 
In  the  face  of  this  terrible  tradition, 
widely  prevalent  in  that  age,  it  took 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


some  degree  of  courage  and  forti- 
tude to  set  out  for  the  unknown 
West.  Columbus  was  one  of  a 
number  of  learned  men  who  held 
that  the  earth  was  a  sphere.  While 
not  the  first  to  hold  that  theory,  he 
was  the  first  to  put  it  into  practice. 
He  believed  that  he  could  reach  In- 
dia by  sailing  westward.  Accord- 
ingly, he  sailed  for  India,  and  found 
America  on  the  way.  [President 
Smith,  sotto  voce,  from  his  seat  be- 
hind the  speaker  :  "He  could  hardly 
have  missed  it."]  PresMent  Smith 
remarks  that  "he  could  hardly  have 
missed  it."  (Laughter.')  Landing 
on  one  of  the  Bahama  Islands — San 
Salvador — Columbus  supposed  it  to 
be  the  coast  of  India,  and  he  never 
learned  to  the  contrary  so  long  as 
he  lived  on  earth.  That  is  why  he 
called  the  natives  "Indians." 

The  discovery  of  America  was 
not  an  accident.  The  event  had 
been  fore-ordained  in  the  eternal 
councils.  The  prophets  of  old  had 
it  in  view.  Jacob  foresaw  it  when 
he  blessed  his  son  Joseph,  calling 
him  "a  fruitful  bough  by  a  well, 
whose  branches  run  over  the  wall" 
[of  waters]  "unto  the  utmost  bound 
of  the  everlasting  hills"  (Gen.  49: 
22-26).  Moses  had  it  in  prophetic 
vision  when  he  blessed  the  tribes 
of  Israel,  making  great  and  peculiar 
promises  to  the  tribe  of  Joseph, 
whose  land  (America)  was  to  be 
"precious"  for  the  things  of  heaven 
and  of  earth,  and  whose  descend- 
ants through  Ephraim  were  to 
"push  the  people,"  the  Lord's  peo- 
ple, "together  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth"  (Deut.  33:13-17);  a  hint 
foreshadowing  the  gathering  of 
Israel  in  the  last  days. 

There  was  an  American  prophet 
named  Nephi.  He  came  from  Jeru- 
salem six  hundred  years  before  the 
birth  of  the  Savior — came  with  his 


father,  Lehi,  and  an  Israelitish  col- 
ony, and  both  South  and  North 
America  were  eventually  peopled 
by  their  descendants.  Those  who 
followed  Nephi  were  known  as 
Nephites,  while  a  degenerate  fac- 
tion who  had  for  their  leader  Ne- 
phi's  brother  Laman,  were  termed 
Lamanites.  These  were  the  ances- 
tors of  the  American  .Indians.  Ne- 
phi was  shown  by  an  angel  the 
glorious  future  of  this  land,  a  land 
of  promise,  the  land  of  Joseph,  the 
latid  of  Zion,  the  theatre  of  won- 
derful events  in  .days  that  were  to 
come.  I  shall  now  read  to  the  con- 
gregation a  portion  of  Nephi's  vis- 
ion of  the  future  of  America,  an 'I 
in  order  to  avoid  repetition  ami 
thus  save  time,  will  comment  upo" 
the  several  paragraphs  as  I  proceed. 
First  Nephi,  thirteenth  chapter : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  angel 
spake  unto  me,  saying,  Look!  And  I 
looked  and  beheld  many  nations  and 
kingdoms. 

"And  the  angel  said  unto  me,  What 
beholdest  thou?  And  I  said,  I  behold 
many  nations  and  kingdoms. 

"And  he  said  unto  me,  These  are 
the  nations  and  kingdoms  of  the  Gen- 
tiles." 

The  word  "Gentiles"  in  the  fore- 
going quotation  refers  to  the 
peoples  of  Europe  at  the  time 
of  Columbus  and  the  great 
discovery.  Let  me  interject  here 
that  the  word  "Gentile,"  as  we  use 
it,  is  not  intended  as  a  term  of  re- 
proach. The  nickname  "Mormon" 
was  originally  applied  to  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  in  derision.  We  are 
railed  "Mormons"  because  we  be- 
lieve in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  from 
which  I  am  reading.  Mormon,  a 
Nephite  prophet,  was  the  compiler 
of  this  record.  But  "Gentile"  meant 
in  ancient  times  "one  of  another 
nation  or  people."    The  great  pro- 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


erenitor  of  the  Gentiles  was  Japheth, 
one  of  the  three  sons  of  Noah,  bv 
whom  earth  was  reneopled  after  the 
"'nod.  Shem  peopled  Asia  and  be- 
came the  ancestor  of  Abraham, 
Tsaac  and  Jacob,  those  great  patri- 
archs of  the  chosen  seed.  Ham  in- 
habited Africa:  he  was  the  father 
of  the  black  races.  From  Japheth 
sprang  the  European  nations,  and 
it  was  to  them  that  the  angel  re- 
ferred in  sneaking  to  Nephi.  The 
origin  of  the  English  word  "Gen- 
tile" is  in  the  Greek  "Gentili's," 
which  simply  means  of  or  pertam- 
ing  to  a  nation  or  people  not  of  the 
House  of  Israel.  But  let  me  read 
further : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  looked 
and  beheld  manv  waters;  and  they 
divided  the  Gentiles  from  the  seed  of 
mv  brethren. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  angel 
said  unto  me,  Behold  the  wrath  of 
God  is  upon  the  seed  of  thy  breth- 
ren." 

Here  is  meant  the  Lamanites, 
who  were  cursed  for  their  iriicmitv 
with  dark  skins  and  benighted 
minds.  Thev  were  the  brethren  of 
the  Neohites,  the  seed  or  descend- 
ants of  the  rebellions  brothers  of 
Nephi.  and  bv  them  the  Neohites 
were  destroved  about  the  vear  420 
A.  D.  "Manv  waters"  describes 
the  ocean  d:viding  the  American 
continents  from  the  Eastern  Hem- 
isphere. 

"And  T  looked  and  beheld  a  man 
amonsr  the  Gentiles  who  was  separ- 
ated from  the  seed  of  mv  brethren 
by  the  many  waters:  and  I  beheld 
the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  came  down 
and  wrought  upon  the  man  and  he 
went  forth  i^on  the  many  waters, 
even  unto  the  seea  of  my  brethren 
who  were  in  the  promised  land." 

I  need  not  stop  to  say  that  this 
man    Avas    Christopher  Columbus, 


impelled  by  the  Spirit  of  God  10 
cross  the  deep,  and  thus  build,  as 
God's  servants  have  always  done, 
better  than  he  knew. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld 
the  Spirit  of  God,  that  it  wrought 
upon  other  Gentiles;  and  they  went 
forth  out  of  captivity,  upon  the  many 

waters." 

This  reference  is  to  the  Pilgrims 
or  Puritans,  who  about  the  begin- 
ning of  the  Seventeenth  century 
fled  from  England  to  Holland  to 
escape  religious  persecution  in  their 
own  land,  and  then  returned  to  Eng- 
land and  sailed  for  America,  land- 
in  9"  at  Plymouth  Rock  in  December, 
1620.  They  were  followed  by  many 
others.  In  fact,  before  the  Puri- 
tans settled  in  Massachusetts,  an 
English  colonv  had  settled  in  Vir- 
ginia, where  they  founded  James- 
town ;  and  Huguenots  from  France, 
Cavaliers  and  Roundheads  from 
England,  with  Scotch  and  Irish  and 
German  emigrants  of  all  classes 
came  flocking  to  North  Amer- 
ican shores,  and  were  the  elements 
of  the  great  nation  subsequently 
founded  here. 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  beheld 
many  multitudes  of  the  Gentiles  upon 
the  land  ,of  promise;  and  I  beheld  the 
wrath  of  God,  that  it  was  upon  the 
seed  of  my  brethren;  and  they  were 
scattered  before  the  Gentiles  and  were 
smitten." 

The  history  of  the  .red  man, 
rmshed  back  by  the  white  man  land- 
ing in  America,  is  too  well  known 
to  require  extended  comment. 

"And  I  beheld  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  that  it  was  upon  the  Gentiles, 
that  they  did  prosper  and  obtain  the 
land  for  their  inheritance;  and  I  be- 
held that  they  w,ere  white  and  exceed- 
ing fair  and  beautiful,  like  unto  my 
people  before  they  were  slain. 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY. 


41 


"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I,  Nephi, 
beheld  that  the  Gentiles  who  had 
gone  forth  out  of  captivity  did  hum- 
ble themselves  before  the  Lord;  and 
the  power  of  the  Lord  was  with 
them. 

"And  I  beheld  that  their  mother 
Gentiles  were  gathered  together  upon 
the  waters  and  upon  the  land  also,  to 
battle  against  them; 

"And  I  beheld  that  the  power  of 
God  was  with  them  and  also  that  the 
wrath  of  God  was  upon  those  that 
were  gathered  together  against  them 
to  battle. 

"And  I,  Nephi,  beheld  that  the 
Gentiles  that  had  gone  out  of  cap- 
tivity were  delivered  by  the  power  of 
God  out  of  the  hands  of  all  other 
nations." 

Thus  is  portrayed  in  brief  the 
Revolutionary  War,  that  heroic 
strife  of  the  American  colonies  for 
freedom  and  independence,  follow- 
ed by  the  setting  up  of  the  Govern- 
ment of  the  Llnited  States,  the 
greatest  and  best  government  that 
the  sun  shines  on.  Great  are  the 
promises  of  God  concerning  this 
nation,  provided  it  be  a  righteous 
nation  ;  for  he  says  in  other  parts 
of  this  sacred  book  that  he  "will 
fortify  this  land  against  all  other 
nations,"  that  there  shall  be  "no 
king  upon  this  land,"  and  that  they 
"who  fight  ag'ainst  Zion  shall  per- 
ish." 

I  wish  now  to  dwell  upon  another 
phase  of  the  subject.  How  wonder- 
fully the  Gentiles  have  prospered 
upon  this  ,  choice  land.  I  feel  that 
I  cannot  do  better  at  this  point  than 
to  read  a  few  paragraphs  from  the 
writings  of  Dr.  John  Lord,  show- 
ing how  marvelously  God  has 
blessed  America,  and  forecasting 
some  of  the  great  things  that  he 
intends  yet  to  do  for  her.  In  the 
sixth  volume  of  Beacon  Lights  of 
History,  is  a  lecture  entitled  "Mar- 


itime Discoveries."  Therein  that 
writer  says : 

"The  discovery  of  America  opened 
a  new  field  for  industry  and  enterprise 
to  all  the  discontented  and  impover- 
ished and  oppressed  Europeans  who 
emigrated.  At  first  they  emigrated 
to  dig  silver  and  gold.  *  *  *  * 
Many  were  disappointed,  and  were 
obliged  to  turn  agriculturists,  as  in 
Virginia.  Many  came  to  New  Eng- 
land from  political  and  religious  mo- 
tives. But  all  came  to  better  their 
fortunes.  Gradually  the  United 
States  and  Canada  became  populated 
from  east  to  west  and  from  north  to 
south.  The  surplus  population  of 
Europe  poured  itself  into  the  wilds  of 
America.  Generally  the  emigrants 
were  farmers.  With  the  growth  of 
agricultural  industry  were  developed 
commerce  and  manufactures.  Thus, 
materially,  the  world  was  immensely 
benefited." 

Dr.  Lord  then  speaks  of  the  fu- 
ture : 

"There  is  no  calculating  the  future 
resources  and  wealth  of  the  New 
World,  especially  in  the  United 
States.  There  are  no  conceivable 
bounds  to  their  future  commerce, 
manufactures,  and  agricultural  pro- 
ducts. We  can  predict  with  certainty 
the  rise  of  new  cities,  villas,  palaces, 
material  splendor,  limited  only  to  the 
increasing  resources  and  population 
of  the  country.  Who  can  tell  the 
number  of  miles  of  new  railroads  yet 
to  be  made;  the  new  inventions  to 
abridge  human  labor;  what  great  em- 
pires are  destined  to  rise;  what  un- 
known forms  of  luxury  will  be  found 
out:  what  new  and  magnificent 
trophies  of  art  and  science  will  grad- 
ually be  seen;  what  mechanism,  what 
material  glories,  are  sure  to  come? 
This  is  not  speculation.  Nothing  can 
retard  the  growth  of  America  in  ma- 
terial wealth  and  glory. 

"And  what  then?  *  *  *  *  The 
world  has  witnessed  many  powerful 
empires  which  have  passed  away  and 
left  not  a  rack  behind.'  What  re- 
mains of  the  antediluvian  world? — 
not  even  a  spike  of  Noah's  ark,  larger 
and  stronger  than  any  modern  ship. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


What  remains  .of  Nineveh,  of  Baby- 
lon, of  Thebes,  of  Tyre,  of  Carthage, 
— those  great  centers  of  wealth  and 
power?  What  remains  of  Roman 
greatness  even,  except  in  laws  and 
literatu^l  and  renovated  statues? 
*  *  *  What  is  the  simple  story  of 
all  the  ages? — industry,  wealth,  cor- 
ruption, decay,  and  ruin.  What  con- 
servative power  has  been  strong 
enough  to  arrest  the  ruin  of  the  na- 
tions of  antiquity? 

"Now  if  this  is  to  be  the  destiny  of 
America, — an  unbounded  material 
growth,  followed  by  corruption  and 
ruin, — then  Columbus  has  simply  ex- 
tended the  realm  for  men  to  try  ma- 
terial experiments.    Make  New  York 

second  Carthage,  arid  Boston  a  sec- 
ond Athens,  and  Philadelphia  a  sec- 
ond Antioch,  and  Washington  a  sec- 
ond Rome,  and  we  simply  repeat  the 
old  experiments. 

"But  has  America  no  higher  destiny 
than  to  repeat  the  old  experiments 
and  improve  upon  them  and  become 
rich  and  powerful?  Has  she  no 
higher  and  nobler  mission?  If  Amer- 
ica has  a  great  mission  to  declare  and 
to  fulfil,  she  must  put  forth  alto- 
gether new  forces,  and  these  not  ma- 
terial. And  these  alone  will  save  her 
and  save  the  world.  *  *  *  The  real 
glory  of  America  is  to  be  something 
entirely  different  from  that  of  which 
the  ancients  boasted.  And  this  is  to 
be  moral  and  spiritual, — that  which 
the  ancients  lacked. 

"I  cannot  see  that  civilization  gain- 
ed anything,  morally,  by  the  discov- 
ery of  America,  until  the  new  settlers 
were  animated  by  other  motives  than 
a  desire  for  sudden  wealth.  When 
the  country  became  colonized  by  . men 
who  sought  liberty  to  worship  God, — 
men  of  lofty  purposes,  willing  to  un- 
dergo sufferings  and  danger  in  order 
to  plant  the  seeds  of  a  higher  civiliza- 
tion,— then  there  arose  new  forms  of 
social  and  political  life.  *  *  *  An 
entirely  new  political  organization 
was  gradually  formed,  resting  equally 
on  such  pillars  as  independent  town- 
ships and  independent  States,  and 
these  represented  by  delegates  in  a 
national  centre. 

"So  we  believe  America  was  dis- 
covered, not  so  much  to  furnish  a  field 
for   indefinite   material    expansion, — 
but  to  introduce  new  forms  of  gov- 


ernment, new  social  institutions,  new 
customs  and  manners,  new  experi- 
ments in  liberty,  new  religious  organi- 
zations. *  *  *  If  America  has  a 
destiny  to  fulfill  for  other  nations,  she 
must  give  them  something  more  val- 
uable than  reaping  machines,  palace 
cars,  and  horse  railroads.  She  must 
give,  not  only  machinery  to  abridge 
labor,  but  institutions  and  ideas  to 
expand  the  mind  and  elevate  the  soul. 

*  *  *  Unless  something  new  is  born 
here,  ivhich  has  a  peculiar  power  to  save, 
wherein  will  America  ultimately  differ 
from  other  parts    of  Christendom? 

*  *  *  America  is  a  glorious  boon 
to  civilization,  but  only  as  she  fulfils 
a  nezv  mission  in  history, — not  to  be- 
come more  potent  in  material  forces, 
but  in  those  spiritual  agencies  which 
prevent  corruption  and  decay." 

I  presume  the  learned  author  of 
those  splendid  words  would  stand 
appalled  at  the  "presumption,"  the 
seeming  audacity  of  one  who  would 
stand  up  in  a  public  assembly  and 
announce  to  him  and  to  all  the 
world  that  this  "something  new" — 
new  and  yet  old — having  "a  pe- 
culiar power  to  save,"  has  already 
come,  and  that  it  lies  at  the  very 
foundation  of  this  work,  God's 
mighty  and  marvelous  work  of  the 
last  days.  Yes,  whatever  men  may 
think  or  say,  this  is  our  position. 
In  the  Everlasting  Gospel  and  in 
the  powers  of  the  Eternal  Priest- 
hood, restored  to  earth  through  the 
instrumentality  of  a  Prophet  of 
God,  in  this  the  final  dispensation  of 
Gospel  grace,  are  those  "spiritual 
agencies  which  prevent  corruption 
and  decay,"  "institutions  and  ideas 
to  expand  the  mind  and  elevate  the 
soul,"  forces  and  powers  which  can 
alone  save  this  nation  and  "save  the 
world." 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe 
Columbus  was  inspired  to  discover 
this  land  in  order  that  a  free  na- 
tion, dedicated  to  the  maintenance 
and  preservation  of  the  rights  of 


ELDER  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY 


43 


man,  including  his  right  to  worship 
God  according  to  the  dictates  of  his 
own  conscience,  might  arise  here ; 
a  nation  founded  upon  the  proposi- 
tion that  all  men  have  equal  rights 
to  life,  liberty  and  the  pursuit  of 
happiness,  and  that  governments 
derive  their  just  powers  from  the 
consent  of  the  governed — a  doc- 
trine diametrically  opposed  to  the 
old  autocratic  notions  prevalent  in 
European  and  oriental  lands.  And 
we  further  believe  that  this  nation 
was  established  so  that  the  great 
work  of  Israel's  God  might  come 
forth  under  its  protecting  aegis,  and 
not  be  crushed  out  by  the  tyranny 
of  man;  to  the  end  that  the  gospel, 
"the  power  of  God  unto  salvation," 
might  be  preached  in  all  the  world 
as  a  witness  before  the  end  comes ; 
that  the  House  of  Israel  might  be 
gathered  in  from  their  long  disper- 
sion, that  Zion  might  arise,  and  the 
glory  of  God  rest  upon  her,  and  the 
world  be  prepared  for  the  coming 
of  the  King  of  kings,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  in  his  glory.  We  be- 
lieve this  fervently.  It  is  our  mes- 
sage to  the  world.  , 

America  has  fulfilled,  or  is  ful- 
filling her  high  and  noble  mission. 
True,  there  have  been  some  abuses, 
things  that  were  never  contem- 
plated by  the  founders  of  our  na- 
tion, by  the  signers  of  the  immortal 
Declaration,  by  the  framers  of  the 
glorious  Constitution.  Men  have 
been  persecuted  under  the  Stars  and 
Stripes  for  their  religious  convic- 
tions. But  it  was  not  the  Constitu- 
tion that  did  it ;  it  was  not  the 
Declaration,  not.  the  Flag,  that  was 
responsible.  These  things  occurred, 
not  because  of  the  Constitution,  but 
in  spite  of  it,  and  because  the  laws 
were  not  enforced  for  the  protec- 
tion of  the  weak  against  the  strong. 
Yet  we  do  not  hold  this  against  our 


Government.  We  are  willing  to  let 
bygones  be  bygones.  America  is 
fulfilling  her  mission  despite  such 
lapses ;  for  she  has  fostered  and  in 
a  sense  brought  forth  the  Church 
of  God,  which  represents  the  lift- 
ing of  the  ensign  for  the  gathering 
of  scattered  Israel.  Under  her  pro- 
tecting shield  "the  little  stone"  has 
come  forth  that  is  destined  to  be- 
come "a  mountain"  and  fill  the 
whole  earth. 

And  we  stand  by  our  country  , 
we  are  glad  and  proud  to  see  her 
continuing  the  noble  work  that  God 
has  placed  upon  her.  Even  as 
Joseph  of  old,  liberated  from  prison 
and  exalted  to  a  throne,  ministered 
to  his  brethren  who  had  hated  him 
and  cast  him  out  and  sold  him  into 
slavery,  so  this  Land  of  Joseph,  lift- 
ed up  on  high,  enthroned  in  beauty 
and  power  and  glory,  is  now  minis- 
tering to  the  needy  nations  who 1 
come  bending  to  her  for  food,  for 
succor,  for  assistance.  America,  re- 
discovering herself,  forgiving  the 
past  and  magnanimously  returning 
good  for  evil,  has  even  crossed  the 
ocean  with  her  armies  and  navies 
and  is  sending  her  sons  to  the  front 
to  help  the  nations  of  Europe,  the 
democracies  of  the  Old  World,  fight 
the  battle  of  freedom  and  equal  right. 
And  I  thank  God,  for  one,  that  our 
boys  have  the  privilege  of  partici- 
pating in  this  glorious  strife.  They 
are  pre-eminently  the  sons  of  lib- 
erty, for  the  gospel  covenant  in 
which  they  were  begotten  and  born, 
is  liberty's  perfect  law,  and  it  is 
most  fitting  and  appropriate  that 
they  should  play  their  part  in  the 
great  and  mighty  drama  that  is 
fated  to  spread  the  principles  of 
human  freedom  and  clear  the  way 
for  the  carrying  of  the  message  of 
salvation  into  every  nook  and  cor- 
ner of  the  world. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God  bless  our  country !  God 
bless  America  in  ber  heaven-ap- 
pointed task  of  succoring  the  needy 
nations,  of  guarding  the  ark  of  lib- 
erty, keeping  alive  the  fires  of  free- 
dom, and  maintaining  the  rights  of 
man !  Amen. 

A  duet:  "The  morning  breaks, 
the  shadows  flee,"  was  sung  by 
David  Reese  and  Anthony  C.  Lund. 

ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY. 

■  A  beautiful  hymn  and  a  significant 
prophecy — Necessity  of  considering 
the  meaning  of  the  Church  of  Christ 
— The  change  among  the  Jews  re- 
garding the  Holy  One  of  Israel — 
God  will  remember  his  promises — 
The  Holy  Land  about  to  be  restored 
to  Judah — Responsibility  upon  the 
peoples  of  the  earth  regarding  the 
gospel  of  Christ — What  are  the  re- 
sponsibilities of  the  Latter-day 
Saints?— An  appeal  to  the  youth  of 
Zion  to  read  the  signs  of  the  times, 
and  to  set  an  example  of  purity  and 
chastity  before  the  world — A  strik- 
ing illustration. 

I  was  just  wondering  how  many 
in  this  magnificent  audience  fully 
appreciate,  or  appreciate  even  to  a 
slight  degree,  the  sinificance  of  the 
third  stanza  of  that  beautiful  hymn 
so  inspirinly  sung  just  now  by  these 
two  elders.  While  the  inspiration 
of 'their  music  is  still  thrilling  our 
hearts,  let  me  read : 

The  Gentile  fulness  now  comes  in, 

And  Israel's  blessings  are  at  hand: 
Lo!   Judah's  remnant,  cleansed  from 
ski, 

Shall  in  their  promised  Canaan  stand. 
And  the  next  equally  applicable: 

Jehovah  speaks!   let  earth  give  ear, 
And  Gentile  nations  turn  and  live; 

His  mighty  arm  is  making  bare, 
His  cov'nant  people  to  receive. 

Over  two  thousand  years  ago  a 


prophet  on  the  American  continent 
prophesied  of  the  restoration  of 
Israel  to  "their  promised  Canaan," 
and  also  of  the  land  of  America,  the 
mission  of  which  has  been  so  elo- 
quently explained  to  us  by  my 
brother,  Elder  Orson  F.  Whitney. 
If  you  will  turn  to  the  19th  chapter 
of  I  Nephi  you  will  find  these  .sig- 
nificant words : 

And  as  for  those  who  are  at  Jeru- 
salem, saith  the  prophet,  they  shall  be 
scourged  by  all  people,  because  they 
crucify  the  God  of  Israel,  and  turn 
their  hearts  aside,  rejecting  signs  and 
wonders,  and  power  and  glory  of  the 
God  of  Israel; 

And  because  they  turn  their  hearts 
aside,  saith  the  prophet,  and  have  de- 
spised the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  they 
shall  wander  in  the  flesh,  and  perish, 
and  become  a  hiss  and  by-word,  and 
be  hated  among  all  nations; 

Nevertheless,  when  that  day  com- 
eth,  saith  the  prophet,  that  they  no 
more  turn  aside  their  hearts  against 
the  Holy  One  of  Israel,  then  will  he 
remember  the  covenants  which  he 
made  to  their  fathers; 

Yea,  then  will  he  remember  the 
isles  of  the  sea;  yea,  and  all  the  peo- 
ple who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel, 
will  I  gather  in,  saith  the  Lord,  ac- 
cording to  the  words  of  the  prophet 
Zenos,  from  the  four  quarters  of  the 
earth ; 

Yea,  and  all  the  earth  shall  see  the 
salvation  of  the  Lord,  saith  the  proph- 
et; every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and 
people  shall  be  blessed. 

And  I,  Nephi,  have  written  these 
things  unto  my  people,  that  perhaps 
I  might  persuade  them  that  they 
would  remember  the  Lord,  their  Re- 
deemer. 

During  the  few  moments  that  I 
occupy  this  position,  I  desire  to  say 
something  regarding  this  significant 
prophecy  with  a  view  of  reaching 
the  young  men  and  the  young  wom- 
en of  Israel,  that  they  might  do  two 
things,  the  first  of  which  is  to  stop 
amidst  their  pleasures,  to  pause  in 
the  midst  of  the  rush  of  this  Twen- 


ELDER  DAVID  O.  McKAY. 


45 


tieth  Century  and  think, — think  of 
the  significance  and  mission  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ ;  to  try  to 
realize  even  in  a  slight  degree,  the 
significance  of  the  world  changes 
that  are  now  taking  place,  and 
measure  them  by  the  standard  of 
•  righteousness  as  taught  by  their 
parents  and  the  authorities  of  the 
Church. 

Boys,  now  is  the  time  to  think,  to 
pray,  and  to  search,  as  we  have 
never  searched  before,  for  the  ever- 
lasting truth ;  to  realize  while  we 
are  young  that  God's  hand  is  over 
the  destinies  of  the  world,  that  he 
-is  shaping  the  destinies  of  nations. 
Benjamin  Franklin  once  said,  "The 
longer  I  live  the  more  convincing 
proofs  I  see  of  this  truth,  that  God 
governs  in  the  affairs  of  man  ;  and 
if  a  sparrow  cannot  fall  to  the 
ground  without  his  notice,  how  is  it 
probable  that  an  empire  can  rise 
without  his  aid  ?" 

I  believe  that  the  providence  of 
God  is  shaping  and  will  shape  the 
destiny  of  the  nations  now  in  the 
grip  of  the  worst  war  known  to  his- 
tory. 

« 

"Under  the  storm  and  the  cloud  today, 
And  today  the  hard  peril  and  pain. 
Tomorrow  the  stone  shall  be  rolled 
away, 

For  the  sunshine  shall  follow  the 
rain. 

Merciful  Father,  I  will  not  complain, 
I  know  that  the  sunshine  shall  follow 
the  rain." 

Twentv-three  hundred  years  ago 
the  prophet  looking  down  through 
the  vista  of  time  saw  this  day.  He 
saw  Israel  scattered  among  all  na- 
trons. He  saw  them  become  a  hiss 
and  a  by-word,  but  added,  "never- 
theless, when  the  day  cometh  that 
they  no  more  turn  aside  their  hearts 
against  the  Holy  One  of  Israel" — 
note  he  does  not  say  when  they  ac- 


cept him  as  their  Redeemer,  nor 
necessarily  declare  to  the  world  that 
he  was  the  Messiah  to  come  to  their 
people — the  prophet  words  it  most 
significantly ;  viz. /'when  they  no 
more  turn  aside  their  hearts  against 
the  Redeemer,  then  in  that  day  will 
he  remember  the  covenants  that  he 
made  to  their  fathers." 

Brethren,  isn't  it  a  significant 
thing  that  today  there  is  a  change 
in  the  hearts  of  the  descendants  of 
Israel  in  regard  to  the  Holy  One  of 
Israel ? 

In  1918,  while  visiting  the  Cali- 
fornia Mission  with  President  Rob- 
inson, he  put  in  my  hand  a  book 
entitled,  Jesus,  the  Jetv,  written 
by  a  prominent  Jew  of  Sacramento. 
In  the  first  chapter  of  that  book  we 
get  a  picture  of  the  enmity  and  bit- 
terness of  the  Jews  when  the  au- 
thor was  a  boy.  Their  hearts  were 
not  turned,  evgn  at  that  late  date, 
much  toward  the  Holy  One,  but 
most  bitterly  against  him.  He  said 
in  substance :  "I  remember  when  a 
boy  that  one  of  my  classmates 
brought  into  the  class  a  book  con- 
taining the  name  of  Jesus.  I  re- 
member how  wrought  up  and  ex- 
cited the  rabbi  became  when  he  was 
made  aware  of  its  presence  in  the 
schoolroom.  'Sacrilege  !  Sacrilege !' 
he  indignantly  cried.  Then  the 
rabbi  proceeded  to  denounce  the 
Holy  One.  He  said  :  'How  can  any 
lew  who  realizes  what  that  name 
has  brought  upon  his  people  even 
touch  a  book  containing  the  name 
of  Jesus?'  He  told  how  the  Jews 
bad  been  persecuted,  how  they  had 
made  outcasts  and  wanderers  over 
been  driven  from  pillar  to  post,  and 
the  face  of  the  earth ;  how  their 
beards  had  been  torn  from  their 
roots,  their  teeth  drawn  from  their 
jaws ;  how  they  had  been  whipped 
at  the  post,  put  upon  the  rack,  and 


4(> 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


their  bones  drawn  joint  from  joint; 
how  they  had  been  outraged,  rav- 
ished, and  killed,  all  on  account  of 
Jesus" — and  by  the  Christians, 
President  Smith  adds.  That  is  one 
picture,  when  that  man  was  but  a 
boy — when  you  were  boys,  my  fel- 
low workers  in  the  priesthood.  Here 
is  another  picture  given  by  a  promi- 
nent Jew,  Tsadore  Singer,  the  editor 
of  the  Jewish  Encyclopedia  :  "When 
I  was  a  boy,  had  my  father. who  was 
a  very  pious  man.  heard  the  name 
of  Jesus  uttered  from  the  pulpit  of 
our  synagogue,  he  and  every  other 
man  in  the  congregation  would  have 
left  the  building,  and  the  rabbi 
would  have  been  dismissed  at  once." 
That  is  illustrative  of  the  spirit 
among  the  descendants  of  Israel 
when  this  Rook  of  Mormon  came 
forth  among  the  children  of  men. 
Even  at  that  time  no  man,  it  seems 
to  me.  acting  upon  his  ordinary 
judgment,  would  dare  say  that  the 
time  would  come  when  they  would 
accept  that  Holy  One.  but  here,  two 
thousand  years  before,  a  prophet  of 
God  said  the  day  would  come  when 
they  would  no  more  turn  their 
hearts  aside  from  the  Holy  One, 
and  that  then  he  would  remember, 
the  promises  he  made  to  their 
fathers. 

Now  the  question  is :  Has  that 
day  come?  That  same  man  who 
heard  his  teacher  say,  "Sacrilege. 
Sacrilege !"  because  a  boy  happened 
to  bring  a  book  containing  the  name 
of  Tesus,  said : 

"I  began  to  study  his  teachings. 
I  found  what  his  teachings  were — 
purity,  humility ;  'Blessed  are  the 
poor  in  spirit.!  'Blessed  are  they 
that  mourn.'  'Blessed  are  the  pure  in 
heart,  for  they  should  ,see  God ; 
blessed  are  the  meek,  for  they  shall 
inherit  the  earth ;  blessed  are  they 
that  hunger  and  thirst  after  right- 


eousness, for  they  shall  be  filled.'' 
And  then  he  proceeds  to  show  how 
Tsrael  today  is  indebted  to  Jesus  the 
Jew.  Tn  one  chapter  entitled,  "Is 
the  Messiah  yet  to  come?"  he  says: 
"The  enlightened  Jew  says  no,  but 
the  Messianic  age  is  what  the  Jews 
today  are  looking  forward  to." 

And  here  in  that  connection  let 
me  just  read  one  verse  from  that 
same  Mr.  Singer :  "I  regard  Jesus  of 
Nazareth  as  a  Jew  of  the  Jews,  one 
whom  all  Jewish  people" — all  Jew- 
ish people  ! — "are  learning  to  love. 
His  teaching  has  been  an  immense 
service  to  the  world  in  bringing 
Israel's  God  to  the  knowledge  of 
hundreds  of  millions  of  mankind. 
The  great  change  in  Jewish  thought 
concerning  Jesus  of  Nazareth  I  can- 
not better  illustrate  than  by  this 
fact — "  and  then  he  relates  the  in- 
stance of  his  childhood,  as  I  have 
read  it. 

"Now.  it  is  not  strange  in  many 
synagogues  to  hear  sermons  preach- 
ed eulogistic  of  this  Jesus,  and  no- 
body thinks  of  protesting.  In  fact, 
we  are  all  glad  to  claim  Jesus  as  one 
of  our  people." 

Boys  of  latter-day  Israel,  does  it 
not  seem  that  the  time  has  come 
when  "their  hearts  no  more  turn 
against  the  Holy  One?"  It  seems 
to  me  that  it  has.  Then,  if  so,  great 
events  are  to  take  place.  God  has 
said  he  will  remember  his  promises. 
What  are  they?  Turn  to  the  tenth 
chapter  of  II  Nephi,  and  there  you 
will  find  that  "when  the  day  cometh 
that  they  believe  in  me.  then  shall 
they  be  restored  in  the  flesh  unto 
their  own  land."  In  the  month  of 
December,  1917,  General  Allenby,of 
the  British  army,  took  possession 
of  the  holy  city,  Jerusalem.  Today 
the  Holy  Land  is  practically  freed 
from  the  domination  of  the  Turk, 
and  it  is  under  the  rule  of  the  Gen- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY. 


47 


tile.  It  was  significant  that  during 
that  very  month  one  of  the  leaders 
of  the  British  parliament,  announc- 
in  the  taking  of  Jerusalem,  also  sug- 
gested that  it  should  be  made  the 
home  of  the  Jews.  In  that  same 
paragraph  in  II  Nephi  the  prophet 
also  added  this  significant  refer- 
ence :  "And  the  Gentiles  shall  be 
great  in  mine  eyes,  because  they 
shall  be  the  means  of  restoring 
Israel  unto  their  lands."  As  soon, 
practically,  as  the  announcement 
was  made  by  Mr.  Balfour,  I  think, 
that  Jerusalem  should  be  held  for 
the  Jews,  a  prominent  Jew  in  this 
country  wrote  an  article  in  one  of 
the  magazines  saying,  "We  don't 
want  to  go  back  to  Jerusalem.  The 
Holy  Land  is  of  such  strategic  value 
that  should  the  Jews  gather  there 
and  build  a  Jewish  republic,  and  the 
nations  go  to  war  later,  we  shall  be 
crushed  as  Belgium  was  crushed  in 
this  war ;"  but  he  was  answered  by 
the  leaders  of  the  Zionist  movement, 
one  of  whom  is  Israel  Zangwill.  the 
author  of  that  most  patriotic  Amer- 
ican play.  The  Melting  Pot,  and 
they  said  this :  "Place  the  Jewish 
republic  under  the  protection  of 
some  such  nations  as  Great  Britain 
and  the  United  States,"  and  in  har- 
mony with  that  sentiment,  June  the 
26th  of  this  year,  prominent  Jews 
held  a  convention  in  Pittsburg  in 
which  it  was  stated  publicly  and  au- 
thoritatively that  at  that  time  fifty 
thousand  Jews  were  with  General 
Allenby  working  for  the  freedom  of 
the  Holy  Land ;  and  the  Jews  who 
stood  up  in  that  convention,  said : 
"We  dedicate  the  rest  of  our  lives 
to  the  rebuilding  of  Jerusalem." 

It  is  said  by  some  one  that  we 
cannot  see  great  events  when  we 
are  right  close  to  them,  and  it  may 
be  that  we  are  too  close  to  the  ful- 
filment of  these  prophecies  to  get 


their  full  significance.  However,  I 
am  sure  this  morning  that  we  .get  at 
least  glimpses  of  their  significance. 
This  is  one  thought,  then,  which  I 
desire  to  give  to  the  boys  and  the 
eirls  of  Zion — that  ''The  providence 
that  watches  over  the  affairs  of  men 
works  out  of  their  mistakes  at  t:mes 
a  healthier  issue  than  could  have 
been  accomplished  by  their  own 
wisest  forethought." 

I  grant  you  that  the  gentile  na- 
tion, Great  Britain,  did  not  go  over 
there  to  get  Jerusalem  free  for  the 
Jews.  In  this  great  war  they  want- 
ed to  protect  their  possessions  and 
interests  in  the  far  east.  That  was 
simply  a  strategic  movement  in  this 
great  war,  but  out  of  it  what  has 
come?  I  myself  heard  within  the 
last  month  a  prominent  Jew  of  our 
own  state  express  to  an  audience  his 
appreciation  of  what  is  now  dawn- 
ing for  his  people.  "Under  the 
storm  and  the  cloud  today,  and  to- 
day the  hard  peril  and  pain,  tomor- 
row the  stone  shall  be  rolled  away 
for  the  sunshine  shall  follow  the 
rain."  God's  providence  will  bring 
out  of  this  great  conflict  blessings 
to  humanity  of  which  they  scarcely 
dream. 

But  in  order  that  they  might 
have  them  and  acknowledge  them, 
there  is  a  responsibility  upon  the 
peoples  of  the  earth.  Liberty  is 
offered  them  ;  and  the  perfect  law  of 
liberty,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
is  offered  them.  In  this  day,  the 
greatest  in  the  world's  history,  a 
day  toward  which  prophets  looked 
with  longing  hearts,  you  and  I  are 
witnesses  of  the  fulfilment,  at  least 
in  part,  of  God's  promises.  You 
and  I,  then,  have  the  responsibility 
if  there  is  anything  at  all  in  the 
testimony  we  bear,  of  giving  to  this 
people,  not  only  the  Jews,  but  to 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  world,  the  gospel,  the  .perfect 
law  ©f  liberty. 

What  is  our  responsibility?  I  said 
there  were  two  things  I  would  like 
to  have  the  boys  think  of.  One  I 
have  mentioned ;  viz.,  To  read  the 
signs  of  the  times  and  see  if  they 
cannot  discern  the  existence  and 
providence  of  an  allwise  Creator.  As 
soon  as  they  feel  that  truth  in  their 
hearts,  and  know  it,  oh,  how  dis- 
tasteful will  sin  become  to  them ! 
What  was  the  other?  That  they 
might  realize  that  they  must  set  an 
example  of  purity  and  chastity  to 
the  world.  I  mention  this  because  it 
is  the  crying-  need  of  the  world  to- 
day. In  this  the  boys  and  girls  of 
Zion  must  lead  or  the  world  will 
ask  you,  when  you  claim  that  this 
is  the  gospel,  the  perfet  law  of  free- 
dom— "what  are  the  fruits  of  ft? 
What  are  the  fruits?" 

Oh,  how  my  heart  warmed  yes- 
terday, with  yours,  when  we  list- 
ened to  President  Smith  say :  "For 
seventy  years  T  have  devoted  my 
l:fe  to  this  work."  T  have  heard 
him  say  that  what  he  is,  he  is  be- 
cause of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
That  gospel  which  can  make  a  man 
of  strength,  a  man  of  charactei,  a 
man  of  God.  such  as  I  bear  testi- 
mony to  you  President  Smith  is,  has 
in  it  the  redeeming  power  for  the 
salvation  of  mankind.  But  the 
foundation  of  growth  in  this 
Church  is  purity,  with  faith  in  God. 
T  am  glad  that  our  nation  is  in  part 
fulfiling  its  mission  in  sending  out 
with  the  boys  the  message  of  purity, 
telling  them  that  though  they  are 
soldiers,  they  cannot  violate  with 
imnunity  the  principle  of  chastity. 

Illustrative  of  this,  I  read  The 
Nurse  and  the  Knight,  a  little  book 
sent  bv  Corporal  Wendell  Whitney 
to  his  father,  Elder  Orson  F.  Whit- 
ney, a  letter    from  a  Red  Cros> 


nurse,  in  which,  in  substance,  in  one 
place  she  said : 

"First  I  was  in  Paris,  where  the 
wounded  came  to  have  their  wounds 
dressed.  I  saw  them  wash  their 
wounds  and  they  were  clean.  The 
boys  seemed  to  be  happy,  and  look- 
ed with  pride  and  honor  upon  the 
wounds  they  had  received  in  a 
righteous  cause.  Later  I  was  placed 
in  an  emergency  hispital  near  the 
battle  line.  There  some  worse 
cases  came,  but  they  too  were 
proud.  Then  later  I  went  to  the 
base  hospital,  part  of  the  trenches, 
and  there  I  saw  men  with  their 
bodies  mangled ;  I  saw  in  one  case 
some  German  prisoners  with  their 
legs  blr^vn  off,  but  they  had  their 
hearts,  chey  had  their  minds  and 
their  souls,  and  they  could  still  live 
and  love  and  think.  It  was  not 
the  worst  thing  I  had  seen.  Then 
there  came  .some  from  Verdun, 
where  the  liquid  fire  had  been  blown 
into  their  faces.  They  were  scarred 
and  blind.  Oh,  it  was  worse  than 
death.  Death  seemed  sweet  to  those 
others,  and  this  was  worse,  but  it 
was  not  the  worst  thing  I  saw.  I 
saw  men  who  were  standing  there 
by  the  big  guns  that  were  placed 
up  by  the  French  to  withstand  the 
German  great  guns  that  were  blow- 
ing off  the  hills  of  Verdun.  When 
they  were  brought  back  they  were 
mad.  But  that  was  not  the  worst 
thing  I  saw.  When  with  a  Red 
Cross  nurse,  whose  name  you  have 
seen  in  the  papers,  we  passed  a 
certain  hospital  there  in  Paris,  she 
said,  T  can  stand  everything  else 
in  this  Avar  but  that,'  'Why,  what 
is  it?"  'Don't  you  know?'"  'Why, 
no,'  'Haven't  you  nursed  in  there?' 
'No.'  'Then  thank  God  you  have 
not  had  to  nurse  there.  Those  are 
the  boys  who  could  fight  for  their 
country,  but  who  could  not  fight 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY. 


49 


for  themselves.  The  soldiers  whom 
you  have  nursed  with  their  bodies 
clean,  if  they  died  they  died  in  hon- 
or. If  they  lived  they  lived  in  hon- 
or ;  but  those  boys  in  there,  wich 
the  poison  of  sin  in  their  blood,  die 
in  loathesome  horror.  If  they  live 
they  live  to  be  a  sorrow  and  a  curse 
to  those  who  trust  and  love  them." 

Oh,  boys  of  Zion,  can't  you  ,see 
what  the  nations  need?  Will  you 
set  an  example?  God  help  us  to 
tell  them  that  the  hour  of  his  judg- 
ment is  come.  God  has  spoken. 
The  .day  of  Israel  is  here,  and  the 
coming-  of  the  Son  of  Man  is  not 
far  off.  How  many  years  it  matters 
not.  It  is  near  by.  We  must  do 
our  part  and  prepare  for  it.  I  pray 
that  we  may  prove  worthy  sons  and 
daughters  of  Zion,  entitled  to  the 
blessings  of  Israel,  entitled  to  par- 
ticipate in  the  great  consummation 
of  all  things  in  this  last  dispen- 
sation, and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

The  spirit  of  Anti-christ — Two  dia- 
metrically opposed  schools  of  phil- 
osophy concerning  the  salvation  of 
man — One  based  on  individual 
choice,  the  other  ,on  force  and  com- 
pulsion— The  spirit  of  Anti-christ  in 
the  world  today — Proof  that  it  di- 
rects the  German  people — The  ex- 
istence of  Christianity  is  at  stake  in 
the  present  world  struggle — Anti- 
christ banished,  from  the  earth,  the 
former-day  Christian  Church  both 
in  the  eastern  and  western  conti- 
nents— Our  duty  is  not  only  to 
make  the  world  safe  for  Democracy, 
but  safe  for  the  true  Christianity 
upon  which  the  salvation  of  the 
world  depends. 

I  shall  read  a  paragraph  from 
the  first  general  ep:stle  of  Tohn  to 
thp  Church,  from  the  third  verse: 
"Every  spirit  that  confesseth  not 


that  Jesus  Christ  has  come  in  the 
flesh  is  not  of  God ;  and  this  is  that 
spirit  of  Anti-christ  whereof  ye 
have  heard  that  it  should  come; 
and  even  now  already  is  it  in  the 
world." 

The  scripture  which  I  have  read 
makes  plain  the  fact  that  any  spirit 
which  assumes  the  guise  of  Christ, 
but  is  in  opposition  to  him,  and  the 
doctrines  which  he  taught,  is  Anti- 
christ. Knowledge  of  the  great 
plan  of  human  redemption,  and  the 
part  which  was  to  be  taken  in  it  by 
Jesus  Christ,  did  not  have  its  origin 
with  the  personal  appearance  of  the 
Redeemer  and  his  ministry,  in  the 
meridian  of  time. 

Since  a  very  early  period  of  the 
world's  historyi  presume  if  we  had 
authentic  record  of  it  from  the  very 
beginning,  there  have  existed  two 
schools  of  philosophy,  each  pur- 
porting to  have  as  its  basis  the  wel- 
fare of  mankind  while  in  mortality, 
and  his  redemption  in  the  life  to 
come.  The  doctrines  taught  by 
these  two  schools,  while  having  the 
same  purpose  in  view  were  dia- 
metrically opposed. 

Upon  the  one  hand  it  was  urged 
that  the  redemption  of  the  human 
family  could  best  be  accomplished 
through  an  agencv  wlr'ch  should 
assume  responsibility  for  the  life 
and  actions  of  the  individual,  guar- 
anteeing redemption,  and  a  return 
to  the  presence  of  the  Creator,  with- 
out regard  to  his  conduct  while  in 
the  flesh,  the  condition  being  that 
in  consideration  of  salvation  the 
individual  should  render  service, 
and  acknowledge  allegiance  to  the 
rower  thus  assuming-  responsibility 
for  his  conduct  during  his  mortal 
life.  Tt  was,  in  effect,  a  plan  to 
=ave  and  redeem  mankind,  whether 
he  .desired  and  labored  for  it  or  not. 

In  contrast  to   this  compulsory 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


plan  of  redemption,  and  directly 
opposed  to  it,  was  the  doctrine  that 
man.  endowed  as  he  is  with  reason, 
and  possessed,  in  a  limited  degree, 
with  the  intelligence  of  the  Creator, 
in  whose  image  he  is  formed,  en- 
dowed with  knowledge  which  en- 
abled him  to  .discern  between  right 
and  wrong,  between  good  and  evil, 
became  a  responsible  agent,  and 
that  his  status  in  the  life  to  come 
was  governed  by  his  conduct  while 
in  mortality.  That  in  order  to  at- 
tain to  exaltation  he  must  live  a 
righteous  life,  not  because  he  was 
compelled  to  do  so  by  superior 
force,  but  because  he  loved  right- 
eousness. In  one  case  it  was  the 
doctrine  of  force,  of  compulsion,  in 
the  other  the  voluntary  will  of  man 
to  do  right  for  right's  sake. 

Christ  was  the  exponent,  the  em- 
bodiment of  the  latter  idea,  and  that 
which  conflicts  with  it  is  Anti- 
christ. A  great  struggle  has  al- 
ways existed  between  these  two 
ideas.  Systems  of  religion  have 
been  evolved  which  made  compli- 
ance with  certain  rules  indispensa- 
ble to  the  eternal  welfare  of  man, 
and  compulsory  laws  enacted  by 
which  it  was  sought  to  compel  com- 
pliance with  them,  regardless  of  the 
will  of  the  individual. 

Civil  governments  have  been  es- 
tablished in  which  this  doctrine  of 
compulsory  obedience  to  law  was 
imperative.  notwithstanding  the 
fact  that  the  individual  had  no  par- 
ticipation in  framing  the  law  or  its 
administration.  It  is  the  principle 
that  whoever  has  the  power  to  im- 
pose his  will  upon  another  is  justi- 
fied in  doing  so,  that  the  wreak  have 
no  rishts  which  the  strong  are  un- 
der obligation  to  respect. 

Opposed  to  this  idea  is  the  doc- 
trine of  Christianity,  which  teaches 
self  sacrifice,  that  the  strong  should 


not  only  respect  but  help  the  weak, 
that  he,  too,  may  become  strong, 
that  in  both  civil  and  religious  life 
man  .should  follow  his  own  inclina- 
tion, framing  such  laws  as  seem 
best  adapted-  to  his  condition,  and 
administering  them  in  his  own  way, 
worshiping  whom  or  what  he  may 
desire,  or  not  worshiping  at  all,  but 
with  this  one  fundamental  truth 
written  in  his  creed,  that  whether 
great  or  small,  he  has  no  authority, 
either  in  civil  or  religious  life,  to 
infringe  upon  the  rights  of  his 
neighbor,  or  exercise  coersion  or 
unrighteous  dominion  over  him.  He 
must  do  to  others  as  he  would  that 
others  do  to  him  under  like  circum- 
stances. 

Exemplifying  this  doctrine  Christ 
testified  that  he  came  not  into  the 
world  to  do  his  own  will,  but  the 
will  of  the  Father,  who  sent  him. 
That  he  came  not  to  seek  his  own 
aggrandizement,  and  dominate 
others,  but  to  serve  them.  Testify- 
ing that  he  who  would  be  greatest 
in  the  kingdom  of  heaven  must  be 
the  servant,  not  the  master,  of  all. 
_^  In  the  general  epistle  to  the 
Church,  from  which  I  have  quoted. 
John  warns  his  brethren  to  beware 
of  any  spirit  which  may  come  into 
the  world  teaching  .doctrines  which 
are  contrary  to  those  taught  by  the 
Redeemer,  and  declares  "that  such 
are  Anti-christ.  The  scripture 
warns  us  to  be  especially  careful  in 
the  latter  days,  the  dispensation  of 
the  fulness  of  times,  when  we  are 
told  that  this  spirit  will  manifest 
itself. 

I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  en- 
ter into  any  argument  to  convince 
this  congregation  of  thoughtful,  ob^ 
serving  people,  that  the  spirit  of 
Anti-christ  is  in  the  world  todav, 
and  js  making  the  greatest  effort  to 
obtain    world    dominion,  and  the 


i 


ELDER  ANTHONY  IV.  IVINS. 


51 


overthrow  of  Christianity  that  has 
ever  been  made  since  the  beginning 
of  time.  That  I  may  justify  this 
assertion  permit  me  to  draw  the 
contrast  between  the  teachings  of 
Christ  and  the  outspoken  declara- 
tions and  teachings  of  the  men  who 
control  the  lives,  and  to  a  great  ex- 
tent the  thought  of  the  German  peo- 
ple, who  are  in  some  respects  among 
the  most  civilized  people  of  the 
world.  The  statement  that  world 
dominion  is  sought  is  justified,  it 
appears  to  me,  by  the  following : 

Carl  Peters,  in  his  book,  Clear  the 
Wax,  published  in  1915,  says:  "Not 
live  and  let  live ;  but  live,  and  direct 
the  lives  of  others,  that  is  power." 

Baron  Von  Bernhardi,  in  his 
book,  Germany  and  the  Next  V/ar, 
savs :  "Might  is  at  once  the  su- 
preme right,  world  power  or  down- 
fall will  be  our  rallying  cry." 

Contrast  those  words  with  the 
doctrine  taught  by  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world. 

Christ  said:  "Blessed  are  the 
peace  makers,  for  they  shall  be 
called  the  children  of  God." 

Husro  Mustenberger,  in  his  book. 
The  War  and  America,  says:  "Ye 
shall  love  peace  as  a  means  to  new 
wars,  and  the  short  peace  more 
than  the  lonef.  Be  not  considerate 
of  thy  neighbor.  This  new  table. 
O,  my  brethren,  put  I  up  over  you, 
become  hard." 

Christ  said :  "Ye  have  heard  it 
said,  thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
and  hate  thine  enemy.  But  I  say 
unto  you,  love  your  enemies,  bless 
them  that  curse  you,  do  good  to 
them  that  hate  you,  and  pray  for 
them  that  desp:tefully  use  you." 

When  questioned  regarding  the 
health  of  his  wife,  Count  Von  Bis- 
marck answered :  "She  is  very  well, 
only  she  suffers  from  her  hatred  of 
the  French,  all  and  each  of  whom 


she  would  like  to  see  either  shot,  or 
stabbed  dead,  even  to  the  very  small 
children." 

Henrich  Vieroldt,  the  German 
poet,  answering  the  recent  criticism 
of  a  Swiss  newspaper,  which  com- 
mented on  one  of  his  poems  says : 
"If  the  treasury  of  the  German  lan- 
guage contained  expressions  of  hate 
and  anger  a  thousand  times 
stronger,  I  would  have  hurled  them 
in  the  world's  face." 

The  Redeemer  said :  "Blessed 
are  the  merciful,  for  they  shall  ob- 
tain mercy." 

On  August  26,  1914,  General 
Stenger,  commander  of  the  58th 
brigade,  of  the  German  army,  issued 
the  following  order  of  the  day : 
"Beginning  with  today,  no  more 
prisoners  will  be  taken.  All  pris- 
oners are  to  be  put  to  death.  Pris- 
oners even  in  large  units  are  to  be 
put  to  death.  No  living  man  is  to 
be  left  behind  us." 

Such  teachings,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  can  have  but  one  result,  a 
result  which  is  expressed  by 
Thomas  Mann,  in  the  Rund- 
schau, November,  1914,  in  which 
he  says :  "Culture  is  a  spiritual  or- 
ganization of  the  world  which  does 
not  exclude  bloody  savagery.  It 
raises  the  demoniac  to  sublimity.  It 
is  above  morality,  reason,  or  sci- 
ence." 

It  will  be  observed  that  the  quo- 
tations which  I  have  made,  and 
which  are  but  a  small  part  of  utter- 
ances of  like  character  which  might 
be  submitted,  are  the  words  of  sol- 
diers, statesmen,  professors,  authors 
and  poets,  proving  that  the  anti- 
Christian  doctrines  which  are  advo- 
cated are  not  confined  to  any  par- 
ticular class  among  the  German 
people.  I  do  not  believe  that  these 
doctrines  are  universally  accepted  in 
Germany ;  but,  on  the  contrary,  that 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


there  are  many  devout  Christians 
there  who  follow  the  Redeemer,  ac- 
cording; to  the  light  which  they  pos- 
sess, but  that  the  existence  of  Chris- 
tianity is  at  stake  in  the  present 
great  struggle,  I  sincerely  believe. 

Those  who  follow  Christ  have 
ever  traveled  over  stony  paths.  He 
was  crucified  because  he  taught  doc- 
trines which  conflicted  with  the 
selfish  ambition  of  the  men  who 
controlled  the  world  at  the  time  of 
his  coming.  Those  who  believed  in 
him  were  persecuted,  driven  into 
the  dens  and  caves  of  the  earth, 
until  the  Church  ceased  to  exist.  On 
this  continent  of  ours,  to  which  ref- 
erence has  so  appropriately  been 
made,  by  preceding  speakers,  men 
inspired  by  this  same  selfish  spirit 
sought  to,  and  finally  succeeded  in, 
destroying  Christianity.  Let  me 
read  from  the  Book  of  Mormon  : 

"And  now  it  came  to  pass  that  when 
Moroni,  who  was  the  chief  commander 
of  the  Nephites,  had  heard  of  these 
dissensions,  he  was  angry  with  Amal- 
ickiah.  And  it  came  to  pass  that  he 
rent  his  coat;  and  he  took  a  piece 
thereof,  and  wrote  upon  it.  In  memory 
of  our  God.  Our  religion  and  freedom. 
And  our  peace,  our  wives  and  our  chil- 
dren. And  he  fastened  it  upon  the  end 
of  a  pole,  and  he  fastened  on  his  head 
plate,  and  his  breast  plate,  and  his 
shield,  and  girded  on  his  armor  about 
his  loins.  And  he  took  the  pole  which 
had  on  the  end  thereof  his  rent  coat, 
(and  he  called  it  the  Title  of  Liberty), 
and  he  bowed  himself  to  the  earth, 
and  he  prayed  mightily  to  his  God  for 
the  blessing  of  liberty  to  rest  upon  his 
brethren,  so  long  as  there  should  a 
band  of  Christians  remain  to  possess 
the  land.  For  thus  were  all  the  true 
believers  in  Christ,  who  belonged  to 
the  Church  of  God,  called  by  those 
who  did  not  belong  to  the  church. 

"And  therefore,  at  this  time  Moroni 
prayed  that  the  cause  of  the  Chris- 
tians, and  the  freedom  of  the  land 
might  be  favored.  And  when  Moroni 
had  said  these  words,  he  went  forth 
among  the  people,  waving  the  rent  of 


his  garment  in  the  air,  that  all  might 
see  the  writing  which  he  had  written 
upon  the  rent,  and  crying  with  a  loud 
voice  saying:  Behold,  whomsoever 
will  maintain  this  title  upon  the  land, 
let  them  come  forth  in  the  strength 
of  the  Lord,  and  .enter  into  a  covenant 
that  they  will  maintain  their  rights, 
and  their  religion,  that  the  Lord  God 
may  bless  them." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  have 
heard  a  great  deal  since,  the  begin- 
ning of  this  devastating  war,  in  re- 
gard to  making  the  world  safe  for 
■democracy.  My  appeal  to  you  this 
morning  is  to  make  the  world  safe 
for  Christianity,  for  if  Christianity 
is  safe,  then  is  democracy  safe  also. 
Then  is  representative  government 
by  the  people,  and  for  the  people, 
safe.  Then  are  the  principles  of 
charity,  and  mercy,  and  justice  safe, 
for  these,  and  every  other  thing 
which  the  heart  of  man  may  desire 
in  righteousness  are  made  safe 
when  the  doctrines  taught  by  the 
Redeemer  are  acknowledged  to  be 
the  supreme  law,  and  he  the  Law- 
giver. 

So  I  appeal  to  you  to  reflect,  and 
to  resolve,  in  the  words  of  Morom 
which  I  have  read,  that  so  long  as 
there  is  a  band  of  Christians  left 
in  the  world,  they  will  gird  on  their 
armor,  the  armor  of  righteousness, 
that  the  word  of  the  Lord  may  be 
advocated  in  every  nation,  and  if 
necessary  the  arm  of  every  Chris- 
tian be  steeled  to  fight  for  the  per- 
petuitv  of  these  eternal  truths  upon 
which  the  salvation  of  the  world  de- 
pends today.  God  give  victory  to 
the  armies  which  are  fightinsf  in  de- 
fense of  these  principles.  May  he 
p-ive  strength  to  the  Latter-dav 
Saints  to  properly  perform  their 
part  in  this  great  struggle,  and 
above  all  mav  he  give  power  to 
spread  these  truths  among  all  na- 
tions, until  the  world  shall  be  con- 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


53 


verted,  God's  kingdom  come,  and 
his  will  be  done  upon  earth,  as  it  is 
in  heaven,  I  pray,  through  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

It  was  announced  that  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  meeting'  would  con- 
vene in  the  Assembly  Hall  at  7 
o'clock  to-night. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"America." 

President  C.  Alvin  Orme,  of 
Tooele  stake,  offered  the  closing- 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p. 

m. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 

The  Conference  was  called  to 
order  at  2  o'clock  by  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  who  presided. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "High  on  the  mountain 
top." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  John 
Wells,  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints 
of  the  Lord." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 

A  call  to  repentance — Man's  duty  fol- 
lowing repentance — Order  in  the 
government  of  the  Church — Fallac: 
of  purported  and  false  visions  and 
revelations  by  lay  members  for  the 
people — Only  one  man  properly 
called  and  appointed  to  receive 
revelation  for  the  guidance  of  the 
Church — The  word  of  the  Lord  on 
this  subject  which  should  set  all 
doubts  at  rest — -When  the  Elders 
speak  by  inspiration  they  speak 
in  .order  and  according  to  the  doc- 
trines and  revelations  given  to  the 
Church — Members  are  entitled  to 
know  for  themselves,  by  searching 


the  revealed  word  of  God — This 
word  is  not  given  in  a  corner  ^ut 
openly. 

I  trust  and  pray  that  I  may  be  led, 
in  such  remarks  as  I  may  make  this 
afternoon,  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
for  I  desire,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, to  speak  only  that  which  will  be 
in  harmony  with  the  word  of  truth 
as  it  has  been  revealed  for  the  salva- 
tion of  the  children  of  men. 

I  was  greatly  edified  this  morning 
by  the  remarks  of  the  brethren,  like- 
wise by  the  remarks  of  those  who 
occupied  the  time  yesterday.  I  re- 
joice in  a  knowledge,such  as  I  have, 
of  the  truth  and  a  testimony  of  the 
truth  as  it  has  been  made  known  to 
us  in  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times.  I  will  read,  with 
your  permission,  a  word  or  two 
from  one  of  the  revelations  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith.  This  revelation  was  given 
in  the  year  1830,  in  October  of  that 
year,  the  portion  to  which  I  refer 
reads  as  follows : 

Yea,  open  your  mouths  and  they 
shall  be  filled,  saying — Repent,  repent, 
and  prepare  ye  the  way  of  the  Lord, 
and  make  his  paths  straight;  for  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand. 

Yea,  repent  and  be  baptized,  every 
one  of  you,  for  a  remission  of  your 
sins;  yea,  be  baptized  even  by  water, 
and  then  cometh  the  baptism  of  fire 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Behold,  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto 
you,  this  is  my  gospel,  and  remem- 
ber that  they  shall  have  faith  in  me, 
or  they  can  in  no  wise  be  saved. 

And  upon  this  rock  I  will  build  my 
Church;  yea,  upon  this  rock  ye  are 
built,  and  if  ye  continue,  the  gates  of 
hell  shall  not  prevail  against  you. 

And  ye  shall  remember  the  church 
articles  and  covenants  to  keep  them. 

And  whoso  having  faith  you  shall 
confirm  in  my  church,  by  the  laying 
on  of  the  hands,  and  I  will  bestow  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  upon  them. 

And  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Holy  Scriptures,  are  given  of  me  for 
your  instruction;  and  the  power  of 
my  Spirit  quickeneth  all  things. 

Wherefore,  be  faithful,  praying 
always,  having  your  lamps  trimmed 
and  burning,  and  ,oil  with  you,  that 
you  may  be  ready  at  the  coming  of 
the  Bridegroom. 

For  behold,  verily,  verily,  I  say  un- 
to you,  that  I  come  quickly.  Even  so. 
Amen. 

Now  I  desire  to  call  attention  to 
bne  or  two  things  in  these  passages 
of  scripture.  In  the  first  place  in 
order  that  a  man  may  be  saved  in 
the  kingdom  of  God  he  must  have 
faith  in  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ,  he  must  accept  him  and  be- 
lieve that  he  is  indeed  the  Son  of 
God  and  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world.  When  he  knows  that,  re- 
pents of  his  sins,  and  is  baptized 
for  the  remission  of  his  sins,  then  it 
is  his  duty  to  continue  in  well  doing, 
remembering,  as  stated  here,  the 
Church  articles  and  covenants  to 
keep  them ;  and  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon and  the  Holy  Scriptures  which 
contain  in  great  part  these  articles 
and  covenants.  For  the  Lord  de- 
clares they  are  given  of  him  for  our 
instruction  by  the  power  of  the 
Spirit  which  quickeneth  all  things. 
Now,  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants was  not  mentioned  in  this 
revelation  for  the  very  good  reason 
that  in  the  year  1830,  in  October, 
there  was  no  book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants ;  otherwise,  without  a 
doubt,  the  Lord  would  have  added 
it  to  these  scriptures  and  would  have 
commanded  us  to  search  the  things 
contained  therein  which  pertain  to 
our  salvation.  Indeed,  we  may  say 
in  truth  that  the  revelations  in  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  are  in- 
cluded in  the  holy  scriptures,  for 
such  they  are. 

Now,  the  Lord  has  revealed  un- 
to us  in  these  modern  scriptures  as 


well  as  in  the  scriptures  that  were 
given  in  ancient  times,  the  necessary 
articles  and  covenants  by  which  we 
may  be  guided  and  directed  in 
church  government  and  understand 
the  truth  of  the  gospel.  Through 
the  faith,  diligence  and  heed  we 
give  to  these  instructions,  we  may 
know  that  the  Lord  and  Savior  of 
this  world  is  indeed  our  Redeemer 
and  the  Son  of  God.  We  may 
know  this  provided  our  studies  and 
faithfulness  are  guided  by  prayer, 
for  in  this  same  commandment,  the 
Lord  declared  that  we  should  pray 
always.  "Wherefore,"  said  he,  "be 
faithful,  praying  always,  having 
your  lamps  trimmed  and  burning, 
and'oil  with  you." 

I  desire  to  say  in  connection  with 
this  which  I  have  read  that  there  is 
no  reason  in  the  world  why  each 
member  of  the  Church  should  not 
have  a  thorough  understanding  of 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  of  the 
order  of  the  Church,  and  the  gov- 
ernment of  the  Church,  so  that  none 
need  be  led  astray  by  any  wind  of 
doctrine,  or  notion,  that  prevails 
among  the  children  of  men,  which 
may  come  to  their  attention.  If 
we  are  firmly  grounded  in  the  faith 
and  built  upon  the  rock,  we  will 
know  the  truth,  the  truth  which  will 
make  us  free.  There  is  a  Tying 
spirit  abroad  in  the  land.  In  my 
travels  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  my 
attention  has  been  called,  on  a  num- 
ber of  occasions,  to  a  purported 
revelation  or  vision  or  manifesta- 
tion, whatever  it  may  be  called,  sup- 
posed to  have  been  received  by 
President  Smith  sometime  in  the 
distant  past,  in  regard  to  events  of 
great  importance  dealing  with  the 
nations  of  the  earth  and  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Many  things  in  that 
purported  vision,  or  revelation,  are 
absurd.   My  attention  has  been  call- 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


55 


ed  to  this  thing,  and  good  brethren 
and  good  sisters  have  inquired  of 
me  to  know  whether  or  not  there 
was  any  truth  in  that  which  had 
come  to  their  attention.    It  is  in 
printed  form ;  and  I  have  been  un- 
der the  necessity  of  telling  them  that 
there  was  no  truth  in  it.    Then,  in 
other  places  I  have  discovered  that 
people  have  copies  of  a  purported 
vision  by  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
given  in  Nauvoo,  and  some  people 
are  circulating  this  supposed  vision, 
or     revelation,     or  conversation 
which  the  prophet  is  reported  to 
have  held  with  a  number  of  individ- 
uals in  the  city  of  Nauvoo.    I  want 
to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, that  if  you  understand  the 
Church  articles  and  covenants,  if 
you  will  read  the  sciptures  and  be- 
come  familiar  with  those  things 
which  are  recorded  in  the  revela- 
tions from  the  Lord,  it  will  not  be 
necessary  for  you  to  ask  any  ques- 
tions in  regard  to  the  authenticity 
or  otherwise  of  any  purported  rev- 
elation, vision,  or  manifestation  that 
proceeds  out  of  darkness,  concocted 
in  some  corner,  surreptitiously  pre- 
sented, and  not  coming  through  the 
proper  channels  of  the  Church.  Let 
me   add   that   when   a  revelation 
comes   for  the   guidance  of  this 
people,  you  may  be  sure  that  it  will 
not  be  presented  in  some  mysterious 
manner  contrary   to  the  order  of 
the  Church.   It  will  go  forth  in  such 
form  that  the  people  will  understand 
that  it  comes  from  those  who  are  in 
authority,  for  it  will  be  sent  either 
to  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  the 
bishops  of  the  wards  over  the  sig- 
natures of  the  presiding  authorities, 
or  it  will  be  published  in  some  of  the 
regular  papers  or  magazines  under 
the   control  and   direction  of  the 
Church  or  it  will  be  presented  be- 
fore such  a  gathering  as  this,  at  a 


general  conference.  It  will  not 
spring  up  in  some  distant  part  of 
the  Church  and  be  in  the  hands  of 
some  obscure  individual  without 
authority,  and  thus  be  circulated 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  Now, 
you  may  remember  this. 

Again,  here  is  another  thought  I 
desire  to  call  your  attention  to,  Not 
very  long  ago  a  good  sister,  I  sup- 
pose a  good  sister,  one  who  means 
well,  placed  into  my  hands  a  pur- 
ported vision,  or  revelation,  which 
she  claims  she  received,  dealing 
with  matters  pertaining  to  the  wel- 
fare of  the  people.    Now,  the  Lord 
is  not  going  to  give  unto  any  wo- 
man in  this  Church  a  revelation  for 
the  Church.  He  is  not  going  to  give 
unto  any  man  in  this  Church,  other 
than  the  one  who  is  properly  ap- 
pointed, a  revelation  for  the  guid- 
ance of  the  Church,  for  everything 
will  be  done  in  order.    When  you 
find  good  sisters,  or  otherwise,  and 
brethren,  circulating  revelations  or 
manifestations   which  they  them- 
selves have  received,  you  put  it  down 
that  it  is  contrary  to  the  law  and 
the  order  of  the  Church  and  the  doc- 
trine the  Lord  has  revealed.   In  the 
early  days  of  the  Church,  back  as 
early  as  the  year  1831,  a  woman  by 
the  name  of  Hubble  claimed  to  have 
received  revelations  which  caused  a 
great  deal  of  confusion  among  some 
of  the  members  of  the  Church  be- 
cause they  did  not  understand  the 
proper  order.     The  Church  was 
young,  the  people  who  had  come  in- 
to it  were  new  and  untrained  so  far 
as  the  gospel  was  concerned,  and  did 
not  thoroughly  understand  the  order 
of  Church  government.    The  wom- 
an was  deceiving  them.    Also  on 
another  occasion  one  Hiram  Page 
received  what  he  claimed  to  be  rev- 
elations, which  he  gave  forth  as 
coming  from  the  Lord  for  the  bene- 


56 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 


fit  of  the  Church,  and  there  was 
necessity  of  rebuking  him.  The 
Lord  gave  a  revelation  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  February, 
1831.  declaring  the  proper  order  in 
the  Church  for  the  bestowal  of  rev- 
elation, a  few  verses  of  which  I  w.ll 
read  to  you : 

O  hearken,  ye  elders  of  my.  church, 
and  give  an  ear  to  the  words  which 
I  shall  speak  unto  you. 

For  behold,  verily,  verily,  T  say  un- 
to you,  that  ye  have  received  a  com- 
mandment for  a  law  unto  my  Church, 
through  him  whom  I  have  appointed 
unto  you,  to  receive  commandments 
and  revelations  from  my  hand. 

And  this  ye  shall  know  assuredly 
that  there  is  none  other  appointed  un- 
to you  to  receive  commandments  and 
revelations  until  he  be  taken,  if  he 
abide  in  me. 

But  verily,  verily.  I  say  unto  you, 
that  none  else  shall  be  appointed  un- 
to this  gift  except  it  be  through  him, 
for  if  it  be  taken  from  him,  he  shall 
not  have  power  except  to  appoint  an- 
other in  his  stead. 

That  provision  for  the  appoint- 
ment of  another  was  never  exercis- 
ed, because  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  did  remain  true  and  stead- 
fast to  the  end,  and  there  was  no 
necessity  for  the  Lord  choosing  an- 
other to  take  his  place  because  of 
any  transgression  on  his  part.  But, 
to  continue : 

And  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  you, 
that  ye  receive  not  the  teachings  of 
any  that  shall  come  before  you  as 
revelations  or  commandments. 

And  this  I  give  unto  you  that  you 
may  not  be  deceived,  that  you  may 
know  they  are  not  of  me. 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  he 
that  is  ordained  of  me  shall  come 
in  at  the  gate  and  be  ordained  as  I 
have  told  you  before,  to  teach  those 
revelations  which  you  have  received, 
and  shall  receive  through  him  whom 
I  have  appointed. 

And  now,  behold,  I  give  unto  you 
a  commandment,  that  when  ye  are 


assembled  together,  ye  shall  instruct 
and  edify  each  other,  that  ye  may 
know  how  to  act  and  direct  my  church, 
how  to  act  upon  the  points  of  my  law 
and  commandments,  which  I  have 
given ; 

And  thus  ye  shall  become  instruct- 
ed in  the  law  of  my  Church,  and  be 
sanctified  by  that  which  ye  have  re- 
ceived, and  ye  shall  bind  yourselves  to 
act  in  all  holiness  before  me. 

Now  I  maintain  that  there  is  no 
occasion  for  any  member  of  this 
Church  to  have  a  doubt  in  his  mind 
regarding  matters  of  revelation  as 
coming  for  the  guidance  of  the 
Church,  because  when  such  things 
come  they  will  come  in  the  proper 
channels  and  be  presented  by  those 
who  are  ordained  to  this  calling  and 
who  are  known  to  the  Church. 
Therefore,  when  you  hear  these  ru- 
mors, you  put  it  down  that  they  are 
false,  and  it  is  absolutely  unneces- 
sary for  you  to  ask  the  question  of 
anyone,  because  you  ought  to  know 
by  the  inspiration  you  have  your- 
selves whether  or  not  they  are  true. 

Now,  just  one  more  thought.  I 
realize  this,  when  the  brethren,  the 
authorities  of  the  Church,  the  elders 
of  Israel,  speak  unto  the  people,  and 
the)-  have  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
they  speak  by  inspiration,  and,  as  we 
read  in  Section  1  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  when  they  so  speak, 
that  which  they  say  is  scripture, 
and  the  Lord  will  recognize  it  as 
such,  and  it  is  binding  upon  the 
people  when  they  so  speak  as  if 
he  himself  spoke  unto  them ;  but 
when  they  speak  unto  the  people 
by  inspiration,  as  they  'do  from 
time  to  time,  it  will  be  in  order  and 
according  to  the  doctrines  and  the 
revelations  which  have  been  given 
to  the  Church,  so  that  all  who  hear 
may  understand. 

If  we  will  hearken  unto  the 
words  of  the  Lord  and  search  for 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH,  JR. 


57 


ourselves  and  obtain  knowledge 
from  the  Book  of  Mormon,  from 
the  Bible,  from  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  from  the  Pearl  of 
Great  Price,  and  from  the  instruc- 
tion given  us  from  time  to  time 
by  the  authorities  of  the  Church, 
and  seek  to  do  the  will  of  the  Lord, 
remembering  our  prayers  and  our 
covenants  before  him,  we  will  not 
go  astray. 

I  wonder,  let  me  say  in  con- 
clusion, I  wonder  if  we  are  in- 
deed a  praying  people.  I  know  that 
many  of  us  pray.  I  doubt  if  we  all 
do.  I  rather  fear  there  are  some 
among  us  who  have  neglected  this 
important  duty.  In  regard  to  this 
there  is  a  statement  in  Section  68 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  that 
I  think  our  attention  should  be 
called  to.  The  Lord  says  here 
that  it  is  the  duty  of  parents  to 
teach  their  children  the  principles 
of  the  gospel  before  they  reach  the 
age  of  accountability,  and  among 
other  things  that  they  should  teach 
them  is  to  observe  their  prayers ; 
and  further  on  in  this  revelation  we 
find  the  following: 

And  a  commandment  I  give  unto 
them,  that  he  that  observeth  not  his 
prayers  before  the  Lord  in  the  season 
thereof,  let  him  he  had  in  remem- 
brance before  the  judge  of  my  people. 

Now,  I  say  this  is  a  very  serious 
thing.  We  ought  to  be  a  praying 
people,  and  if  there  are  in  Zion 
those  who  do  not  observe  their 
prayers  in  the  season  thereof,  they 
are  amenable  to  the  law  of  the 
Church  and  may  be  brought  before 
the  judge,  or  in  other  words,  the 
bishop,  and  he  can  try  them  for 
their  fellowship,  because  the  Lord 
himself  has  declared  it  in  these 
words  which  I  have  read  unto  you. 

Now,  let  us  serve  the  Lord  and 


keep  his  commandments,  labor  in 
righteousness,  and  in  all  things  re- 
member our  covenants  and  look  for 
guidance  to  the  captain  of  the  ship, 
and  not  be  led  astray  by  what  may 
be  purported  as  having  come  from 
him  when  it  is  done  in  a  corner  and 
not  openly  and  above  board  and 
presented  to  the  Church  in  the  prop- 
er manner.  The  Lord  bless  you  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

SPURIOUS  REVELATION. 

Again  I  feel  that  it  is  an  oppor- 
tunity for  me  to  say  a  few  words. 
This  wonderful,  mysterious  revela- 
tion that  I  have  been  said  to  have 
received  a  great  many  years  ago, 
was  given  in  French,  and  I  never 
knew  but  two  or  three  words  in 
French  in  my  life ;  consequently,  I 
could  not  have  been  the  originator 
of  that  revelation.  I  want  you  to 
understand  that.  I  have  denied  it, 
I  suppose,  a  hundred  times,  when  I 
have  been  inquired  of  about  it.  It 
was  gotten  up  by  some  mysterious 
person  who  undertook,  to  create 
a  sensation  and  lay  the  responsibil- 
ity upon  me.  I  am  not  guilty. 
When  the  Lord  reveals  something 
to  me,  I  will  consider  the  matter 
with  my  brethren,  and  when  it  be- 
comes proper,  I  will  let  it  be  known 
to  the  people,  and  not  otherwise. 

HOW     THE     "BLACK/'     "red"  AND 

"white  horse"  revelation  was 
started. 

The  ridiculous  story  about  the 
"red  horse,"  and  "the  black  horse," 
and  "the  white  horse,"  and  a  lot  of 
trash  that  has  been  circulated  about 
and  printed  and  sent  around  as  a 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


srreat  revelation  given  by  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith,  is  a  matter  that 
was  trotten  up,  T  understand,  some 
ten  vears  after  the  death  of  the 
Prophet  Toseph  Smith,  by  two  of 
our  brethren  who  put  together 
some  broken  sentences  from  the 
Prophet  that  thev  may  have  heard 
him  utter  from  time  to  time,  and 
formulated  this  so  called  revelation 
out  of  it.  and  it  was  never  spoken 
bv  the  prophet  in  the  manner  in 
which  thev  have  put  it  forth.  It  is 
simply  false;  that  is  all  there  is  to 
it. 

HOW    THE    STRANG  REVELATION 
WAS  CONCOCTEP. 

Tn  1858.  I  had  the  privilege  of 
traveling  throus'h  California  with 
Charles  Weslev  Wand  ell.  a  former 
member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-dav  Saints,  and  at 
that  time  also  a  member  of  the 
Church.  He  told  me  himself,  in  the 
presence  of  witnesses,  that  he  wrote 
the  document  himself  on  which  the 
organization  of  J.  J.  Strang  was 
founded,  and  he  was  never  so  sur- 
prised as  when  he  found  that  J.  J. 
Strang  accented  his  vagaries  for  a 
revelation  from  God,  and  he  had 
onlv  laughed  at  it  and  repented  of 
it  ever  since. 

HOW  MEN  MAY  KNOW  THE  TRUTH. 

Now,  these  stories  of  revelations 
that  are  being  circulated  around  are 
of  no  conseauence  except  for  rumor 
and  silly  talk  bv  persons  that  have 
no  authority.  The  fact  of  the  mat- 
ter is  simply  here  and  this.  No  man 
can  enter  into  God's  rest  unless  he 
will  absorb  the  truth  in  so  far  that 
all  error,  all  falsehood,  all  misun- 
derstandings and  mis-statements  he 
will  be  able  to  sift  thoroughly  and 
dissolve,  and  know  that  it  is  error 


and  not  truth.  When  you  know 
God's  truth,  when  vou  enter  into 
God's  rest,  you  will  not  be  hunt- 
ing after  revelations  from  Tom, 
Dick  and  Harry  all  over  the  world. 
You  will  not  be  following  the  will 
of  the  wisps  of  the  vagaries  of  men 
and  women  who  advance  nonsense 
and  their  own  ideas.  When  you 
know  the  truth  you  will  abide  in  the 
truth,  and  the  truth  will  make  you 
free,  and  it  is  onlv  the  truth  that  will 
free  vou  from  the  errors  of  men, 
and  from  the  falsehood  and  misrep- 
resentations of  the  evil  one  who 
lavs  in  wait  to  dece:ve  and  to  mis- 
lead the  people  of  God  from  the 
paths  of  righteousness  and  truth. 
God  bless  you.  Amen. 

A  trio,  "Loyalty,"  voices  selected 
from  the  choir,  was  sung. 

ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 

The  comprehensiveness  of  the  gospel 
— Thing's  of  men  and  things  of  God 
■  — The  one  to  be  rooted  up,  the  other 
to  endure — The  present  the  predict- 
ed time  of  commotion — A  day  of 
shaking  —  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  not  sectarian — A  reorganized 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  impossible — 
A  new  and  an  everlasting  covenant. 

I  believe  that  no  person  who  has 
followed  the  addresses  at  this  con- 
ference can  fail  to  have  reflected 
upon  the  comprehensiveness  of  the 
rospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  The  truth 
has  been  declared  unto  us  in  sim- 
plicity and  plainness.  We  have  not 
fathered  here  to  listen  to  fervid  ora- 
tory, or  impassioned  speech,  but  we 
have  heard  again  and  again  the 
eternal  truth  delivered  with  that  elo- 
quence that  appeals  to  the  heart  in- 
stead of  to  the  ear.  We  have  had 
instructions  given  unto  us  relating 
to  the  affairs  of  every-day  life,  go- 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


b9 


ing  back  into  the  eternities  that  pre- 
ceded mortality,  and  onward  into 
the  eternities  beyond  the  grave. 

We  have  learned  that  the  things 
of  man  shall  endure  as  man  endures, 
and  that  the  things  of  God  are  eter- 
nal as  He  is  eternal ;  that  in  the 
things  and  affairs  of  man  the  au- 
thority of  man  is  operative,  and 
that,  in  the  affairs  of  heaven,  only 
the  authority  of  heaven  is  valid. 
There  is  nothing  new  in  this ;  it  was 
preached  in  earlier  dispensations ; 
and,  indeed,  has  been  made  known 
to  those  who  would  listen,  even 
from  the  time  of  Adam.  I  remem- 
ber that  on  one  occasion  the  Christ 
was  particularly  emphatic  in  eluci- 
dation of  that  eternal  truth.  There 
came  to  Him  certain  hypercritical 
Tews  who,  not  being  able  to  answer 
His  doctrine,  undertook  to  find  fault 
with  some  trifles  in  the  life  and  con- 
duct of  His  followers,  as  you  mav 
read  for  yourselves  in  the  fifteenth 
chaoter  of  Matthew.  They  came 
asking  why  His  disciples  trans- 
gressed the  tradition  of  the  elders, 
in  that  they  ate  without  first  wash- 
ing their  hands,  and  the  Lord  turned 
11  Don  them,  it  seems  to  me — I  be- 
lieve He  sometimes  became  in- 
censed, and  if  He  ever  did  He  was 
incensed  on  this  occasion,  for  when 
thev  asked  Him  that  question  He 
said  unto  them : 

"Why  do  ye  also  transgress  the 
commandment  of  God  by  your  tra- 
dition ?"  Mark  you,  not  by  the  law. 
It  was  no  part  of  the  law  of  Moses, 
the  thing  that  they  did,  and  for 
which  He  arraigned  them.  It  was 
only  their  rabbinical  tradition,  and 
this  was  it.  "For  God  commanded, 
saying,  honor  thy  father  and  thy 
mother."  And  then  He  went  on  to 
explain  and  bring  home  to  them  the 
fact  that  they  sanctioned  dishonor 
to  father  and  mother:    "Ye  hypo- 


crites," said  He,  "well  did  Esaias 
prophesy  of  you  saying,  This  people 
draweth  nigh  unto  me  with  their 
mouth,  and  honoreth  me  with  their 
lips,  but  their  heart  is  far  from  me. 
But  in  vain  do  they  worship  me, 
teaching  for  doctrines  the  com- 
mandments of  men." 

Then  crying  out  to  the  multitude 
He  said  unto  them :  "Hear  and  un- 
derstand ;  not  that  which  goeth  into 
the  mouth  defileth  a  man,  but  that 
which  cometh  out  of  a  man,  this  de- 
fileth a  man." 

And  now  for  the  point  I  would 
have  you  specially  observe :  "Then 
came  his  disciples  and  said'  unto 
him,  Knowest  thou  that  the  Phari- 
sees were  offended  after  they  heard 
this  saying?  But  he  answered  and 
said,  Every  plant  which  my  heav- 
enly Father  hath  not  planted,  shall 
be  rooted  up.  Let  them  alone :  they 
be  blind  leaders  of  the  blind.  And 
if  the  blind  lead  the  blind,  both  shall 
fall  into  the  ditch." 

"Every  plant  which  my  heavenly 
Father  hath  not  planted,  shall  be 
rooted  up  ;"  and  conversely :  Every 
plant  which  our  heavenly  Father 
hath  planted,  shall  endure.  So  it  is 
with  the  institutions  on  earth.  Every 
one  that  has  not  been  formed  in  ac- 
cordance with  the  will  of  God  shall 
be  rooted  up,  overthrown,  or 
brought  into  the  dust.  This  is  the 
day  of  commotion.  Have  you  never 
read  that  all  things  should  be  in 
commotion  in  these  the  last  days? 
This  is  the  day  of  shaking,  when 
everything  that  can  be  shaken  shall 
be  shaken,  and  only  those  things 
which  are  established  upon  an  eter- 
nal foundation  shall  endure.  The 
writer  of  the  epistle  to  the  Hebrews 
understood  that  principle,  as  is 
Dlainly  set  forth  in  his  warning  to 
the  people :  "See  that  ye  refuse  not 
him  that  speaketh"  referring  to  the 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Christ,  "For  if  they  escaped  not 
who  refused  him  that  spake  on 
earth,  much  more  shall  not  we  es- 
cape, if  we  turn  away  from  him  that 
spcaketh  from  heaven  :  Whose  voice 
then  shook  the  earth;  but  now  he 
hath  promised,  saying,  Yet  once 
more  I  shake  not  the  earth  only,  but 
also  heaven.  And  this  word,  Yet 
once  more  signifieth  the  removing" 
of  those  things  that  are  shaken,  as 
of  things  that  are  made,  that  those 
things  which  cannot  be  shaken  may 
remain." 

The  things  of  God  are  not  to  be 
shaken  by  the  boom  of  man's  great- 
est artillery ;  they  shall  endure  in 
spite  of  bomb  and  shell.  But  the 
handiwork  of  man  shall  be  shattered 
and  crushed.  So  not  only  all  mate- 
rial things,  but  all  man's  theories 
and  conjectures  and  philosophy,  and 
science  falsely  so  called.  One  of  the 
results  of  the  great  conflict  into 
which  the  world  is  plunged  shall  be 
the  dethronement  of  German  philos- 
ophy, as  .well  as  the  overthrow  of 
German  autocracy,  for  much  of  it  is 
false  and  shall  not  endure.  Rio-ht 
8: lad  am  I  that  we  stand  upon  the 
rock  of  revelation,  and  though  the 
rains  may  beat  and  the  winds  may 
blow,  we  shall  not  be  moved  unless 
we  get  frightened  and  abandon  the 
refuge  of  safetv,  and  be  swept  into 
the  whirlpool  of  man-made  doctrine. 
True  it  is  that  kingdoms  rise  and 
fall  sometimes  by  direction,  some- 
times by  permission  of  the  Lord,  by 
allowance,  because  of  His  respect 
for  higher  laws.  He  will  not  inter- 
fere with  the  agency  of  nations  or 
of  individuals. 

But  I  .do  not  believe  that  God  ever 
planted  the  plant  of  tyranny  or 
kinerlv  despotism.  That  is  a  weed 
that  He  has  permited  to  erow  up, 
and  vou  know  how  careful  He  is  not 
to  prematurely  root  up,  as  evinced 


by  His  own  teaching  to  the  people 
in  that  wonderful  parable  of  the 
wheat  and  the  tares.  The  impetuous 
disciples  would  have  rushed  into  the 
field  to  pluck  up  the  tares,  but  He 
forbade  them,  saying,  "Let  both 
grow  together  until  the  harvest," 
and  explained  to  them  that  any 
forceful  extirpation  of  the  tares 
would  have  imperiled  the  wheat. 

Never  before,  since  the  days  of 
the  Son  of  Man  in  the  flesh,  has  the 
earth  been  prepared  for  the  kind  of 
government  that  shall  be  established 
abroad  as  it  has  been  established 
here.  Fifty  years  ago,  twenty  years 
aeo,  ten  years  ago,  to  have  attempt- 
ed forcibly  to  extirpate  the  weeds  of 
autocracv  would  have  imperiled  the 
wheat  of  real  democracy.  There  is 
a  wonderful  element  of  timeliness 
in  all  the  doings  of  God,  and  He 
doeth  all  things  well,  and  in  the 
right  season. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  ^s 
given  of  God  ;  it  is  eternal.  Have 
vou  ever  found  a  single  passage  in 
Holy  Writ  that  indicates  in  the  least 
degree  any  revision  or  alteration  of 
the  fundamental  laws  and  principles 
of  the  gospel?  Have  you  ever  found 
it  necessarv  for  God  to  amend  Him- 
self and  His  words?  Men  make 
constitutions  and  enact  laws,  and 
then  have  to  repeal  and  alter  them, 
but  the  fundamental  laws  of  truth 
are  eternal ;  they  will  never  be 
amended,  thev  will  never  be 
changed.  As  declared  to  Adam,  so 
is  it  declared  unto  the  world  todav: 
Fxceot  ye  have  faith  in  God  and  in 
His  Son  Testis  Christ,  as  the  one 
and  onlv  Savior  and  Redeemer  of 
mankind :  except  ye  repent  of  your 
sins  with  a  real  and  genuine  repent- 
ance ;  except  ye  be  baptized  by  im- 
mersion in  water,  at  the  hands  of 
one  having;  authority,  and  receive 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


61 


authorized  laying  on  of  hands,  there 
is  no  possibility  of  your  finding 
place  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  We 
look  in  vain  for  modification  or 
qualification.  The  gospel  is  as  sim- 
ple today  as  it  ever  has  been,  and  it 
will  never  be  less  simple.  There- 
fore the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
which  is  the  earthly  embodiment  of 
the  gospel,  the  organization  through 
which  the  gospel  is  to  be  declared 
to  the  world,  is  established  in  this 
dispensation,  for  so  the  Lord  hath 
declared,  never  more  to  be  thrown 
down.  You  have  never  learned  of 
any  revision,  amendment  to  or  alter- 
ation in  the  law  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  form  of  the 
Church.  Like  the  gospel  itself,  the 
Church  adapts  itself  to  the  necessi- 
ties of  the  times,  to  the  conditions 
of  life,  but  without  the  alteration  of 
a  single  vital  principle  revealed  of 
God. 

The  world  is  full  of  sects  and 
churches,  and  there  is  scarcely  one 
that  has  not  a  counterpart  in  the 
form  of  a  revised  or  reformed  or 
reorganized  sect ;  but  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
no  sect.  Even  its  worst  and  most 
unprincipled  critics  have  never  ven- 
tured upon  such  a  palpable  false- 
hood as  would  be  the  declaration 
that  this  is  a  sectarian  organization. 
What  was  it  ever  dissected  from? 
From  what  other  organization  has 
it  ever  been  divided?  And  the 
thought  of  division,  breaking  away 
from,  is  essential  to  the  idea  of  a 
sect.  Now,  be  it  known  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  no  sect.  It  is  an  orig- 
inal creation  with  the  Lord,  and 
when  reestablished  upon  the  earth  in 
this  age  of  the  world  it  was  a  restor- 
ation. Therefore,  if  I  may  be  per- 
mitted the  paradoxical  expression,  I 
would  say  that  the  concept  of  a  re- 


organized Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
unthinkable.  Such  a  thing  cannot 
be.  It  would  mean  that  the  Lord 
had  changed  His  word,  and  that 
when  He  said  that  this,  the  restored 
church  or  kingdom  of  God  should 
nevermore  be  thrown  down,  He 
spoke  falsely ;  that  after  all,  these 
are  not  the  last  clays  ;  that  this  is  not 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times  ;  that  there  is  to  be  another 
restoration.  Such  contradiction  in 
terms  my  mind  is  altogether  too 
feeble  to  comprehend.  This  Church 
will  never  be  reorganized.  There 
never  will  be  a  reorganized  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  upon  the  earth. 
There  can  be  none  such,  except  as 
man  misuses  names. 

My  heart  and  soul  are  in  this 
Church  for  what  it  is.  I  cannot  be 
mistaken.  I  take  it  to  be  what  the 
Lord  has  said  it  is,  and  if  it  be  not 
that,  it  is  but  another  deception  of 
the  devil.  But  the  glorious  fact  is 
that  its  fruits  are  not  the  fruits  of 
deception ;  they  are  love  for  human- 
ity, reverence  for  liberty  and  the  in- 
herent rights  of  men,  tolerance  for 
another's  opinions,  as  long  as  he 
does  not  carry  his  opinions,  if  they 
are  wrong,  too  far,  so  as  to  infringe 
upon  the  rights  of  others.  I  am 
willing  that  a  man  shall  believe 
just  what  he  likes,  as  long  as  he 
does  not  try  to  force  his  belief  upon 
me,  if  I  think  he  is  wrong. 

Now-,  in  this  day  of  whirl  and 
swirl,  when  all  things  are  in  commo- 
tion, and  men's  hearts  are  failing 
them,  is  there  no  sure  anchorage  for 
our  individual  barks?  Is  there  no 
haven  of  safety  to  the  great  ocean 
of  unrest?  Thank  God,  we  find  it 
in  His  word  ;  for  all  that  the  Lord 
has  foretold  shall  come  to  pass  liter- 
ally and  in  fulness.  To  regulate  the 
things  of  God,  to  administer  in  the 
ordinances  of    heaven,  requires  a 


62 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


power  higher  than  any  that  man  can 
originate  or  arrogate  to  himself.  1 
doubt  if  any  one  would  challenge 
me  to  serious  debate  upon  that  prop- 
osition. Let  Caesar  regulate  the 
things  of  Caesar,  if  you  will ;  but  do 
not  let  Caesar  try  to  administer  the 
things  of  God,  for  God's  house  is 
not  a  house  of  confusion.  Refer- 
ence to  this  great  principle  was 
made  yesterday.  Men  may  estab- 
lish laws,  and  so  far  as  they  are  not 
infringements  upon  the  inherent 
rights  of  men  they  are  valid  and 
must  be  obeyed  by  all  concerned; 
but  no  legislature,  no  parliament,  no 
congress  created  by  man,  can  legis- 
late with  regard  to  affairs  beyond 
the  grave.  As  illustrated  by  the  in- 
stance referred  to  yesterday — the 
covenant  of  marriage — man  may  es- 
tablish laws  and  may  perform  cere- 
monies of  marriage  to  be  of  effect 
"until  death  do  you  part."  Those 
are  the  very  ominous  words  that  oc- 
cur in  many  prescribed  ceremonies. 
But  we  regard  marriage  as  some- 
thing more  than  a  ceremony.  It  is 
an  ordinance,  and  that  ordinance 
can  be  administered  only  by  those 
having  the  authority  of  God,  if  it  is 
to  be  in  effect  beyond  the  grave. 
And  so  with  every  other  relation- 
ship that  is  established  by  and 
among  men. 

Permit  me  to  read  to  you  from 
the  132nd  section  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,'  wherein  the  Lord 
says : 

"Behold !  mine  house  is  a  house 
of  order,  saith  the  Lord  God,  and 
not  a  house  of  confusion. 

"Will  I  accept  of  an  offering, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  is  not  made  in 
my  name ! 

"Or,  will  I  receive  at  your  hands 
that  which  I  have  not  appointed! 

"And  will  I  appoint  unto  you, 
saith  the  Lord,  except  it  be  by  law, 


even  as  I  and  my  Father  ordained 
unto  you,  before  the  world  was ! 

"I  am  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  I 
give  unto  you  this  commandment, 
that  no  man  shall  come  unto  the 
Father  but  by  me,  or  by  my  word, 
which  is  my  law,  saith  the  Lord ; 

"And  everything  that  is  in  the 
world,  whether  it  be  ordained  of 
men,  by  thrones,  or  principalities,  or 
powers,  or  things  of  name,  whatso- 
ever they  may  be,  that  are  not  by 
me,  or  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord, 
shall  be  thrown  down,  and  shall  not 
remain  after  men  are  dead,  neither 
in  nor  after  the  resurrection  saith 
the  Lord  your  God ; 

"For  whatsoever  things  remain, 
are  by  me ;  and  whatsoever  things 
are  not  by  me,  shall  be  shaken  and 
destroyed." 

Could  it  be  otherwise?  Human 
institutions,  purely,  human  institu- 
tions, will  end  with  human  life,  and 
in  and  after  the  resurrection  they 
will  have  no  place  nor  name ;  but 
the  institutions  established  by  the 
authority  of  heaven  .shall  endure, 
and  these  alone  are  the  things  that 
can  endure.  In  the  same  revelation 
we  find  this  doctrine  set  forth,  with 
which  I  am  sure  you  are  familiar, 
but  on  which  we  may  well  refresh 
our  minds,  relating  to  what  the  Lord 
calls  by  the  comprehensive  and  sig- 
nificant name  of  "A  new  and  an 
everlasting  covenant." 

"And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that 
the  conditions  of  this  law  are  these  : 
All  covenants,  contracts,  bonds, 
obligations,  oaths,  vows,  perform- 
ances, connections,  associations,  or 
expectations,  that  are  not  made,  and 
entered  into,  and  sealed,  by  the 
Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  of  him  who 
is  anointed,  both  as  well  for  time 
and  for  all  eternitv,  and  that  too 
most  holv,  bv  revelation  and  com- 
mandment through  the  medium  of 


ELDER  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE. 


63 


mine  anointed,  whom  I  have  ap- 
pointed on  the  earth  to  hold  this 
power,  (and  I  have  appointed  unto 
my  servant  Joseph  to  hold  this 
power  in  the  last  .days,  and  there  is 
never  but  one  on  the  earth  at  a 
time,  on  whom  this  power  and  the 
keys  of  this  Priesthood  are  con- 
ferred,) are  of  no  efficacy,  virtue 
or  force,  in  and  after  the  resurrec- 
tion from  the  dead ;  for  all  con- 
tracts that  are  not  made  unto  this 
end,  have  an  end  when  men  are 
dead." 

Is  that  not  consistent  with  our 
conception  of  the  eternal  character 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ? 
Were  the  power  to  direct  this  au- 
thority in  operation  vested  in  more 
than  one  man  upon  the  earth  at  a 
time,  there  would  be  introduced  at 
once  the  possibility  of  confusion 
and  of  a  conflict  of  authority.  With 
respect  to  the  word  of  the  Lord  as 
given  unto  the  people,  I  do  not 
think  that  you  have  found  any  of 
the  general  authorities  of  the 
church,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  or  others,  who  have  inde- 
pendently undertaken  to  give  out 
to  the  people  any  new  revelation  in- 
volving vital  principles  of  doctrine 
or  practice ;  and  no  one  of  them 
would  think  of  doing  it  until  it  had 
been  submitted  to  the  one  man  who 
holds  the  keys  of  that  power  and 
priesthood  here  upon  the  earth  at 
this  time.  God's  house  is  a  house  of 
order,  I  repeat.  Let  us  put  ourselves 
in  order,  if  there  be  need  of  such 
renovation,  that  we  may  be  fit  for 
an  abiding  place  in  the  Lord's  king- 
dom ;  for  while  the  Church  shall 
never  be  reformed  and  reorganized, 
there  is  need  of  individual  reforma- 
tion in  many  cases.  I  trust  that  we 
shall  increase  in  faith  and  in  works, 
and  come  to  be  what  the  Lord 
would  have  us  be,  and  serve  Him 
with  full  purpose  of  heart,  that  we 


may  be  ready  to  go  out  when  the 
cry  shall  be  heard,  as  soon  it  shall 
be  heard,  "Behold,  the  Bridegroom 
cometh ;  go  ye  out  to  meet  him." 
For  such  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

The  gospel  in  application — Necessity 
of  utilizing  all  existing  organizations 
of  the  Church — Eminent  need  of 
counteracting  the  influences  of  the 
world — Our  opportunity  and  obliga- 
tion to  cultivate  the  spiritual  in 
man — The  high  mission '  of  Amer- 
ica in  the  world,  to  be  accomplished 
largely  as  the  Church  fulfills  its 
destiny  among  God's  children. 

Great  truths  have  been  declared 
in  our  hearing  at  this  conference ; 
the  eternal  principles  of  the  gospel 
have  been  pronounced  with  marked 
and  impressive  emphasis.  I  have 
been  built  up  in  my  spirit,  and 
stimulated  in  my  resolution  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  and  to 
do  his  will ;  and  I  am  certain  that 
the  feeling  that  has  come  to  my 
heart  has  come  to  the  hearts  of  all 
those  who  have  heard  the  inspired 
words  of  this  conference. 

The  excellent  themes  of  the  gos- , 
pel,  however,  can  save  the  souls  of 
men  only  as  they  find  application  in 
their  lives.  The  spiritual  refreshing 
that  we  get  from  a  consideration 
of  these  great  truths  cannot  be 
effectual  in  bringing  the  exaltation 
and  the  glory  that  we  hope  for,  un- 
less we  incorporate  them  into  our 
lives.  I  have  been  thinking,  as  I 
have  listened  to  the  exposition  of 
these  great  principles  of  truth,  how 
it  may  be  possible  for  the  men  and 
women  here  gathered  to  disseminate 
them  in  such  a  manner  as  to  bring 
them  home  to  those  who  so  sorely 
need  them,  and  upon  whom  the 
Church  and  the  country  and  all  de- 
pend for  advancement  and  progress. 


6^ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


I  have  looked  through  this  great 
congregation,  and  so  far  as  I  am 
able  to  see  in  to  this  sea  of  faces 
there  are  substantially  none  of  the 
young  men  to  whom  our  beloved 
Elder  McKay  addressed  his  stir- 
ring"-appeal  here  this  morning:  T 
can  discern  scarcely  one  of  the 
whole  number  present  who  has  not 
reached  maturity,  whose  life  and 
habits  are  not  substantially  formed, 
and  who,  according  to  the  best  of 
my  opinion,  is  not  conducting  him- 
self in  substantial  conformity  to  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  and  attempt- 
ing to  live  according  to  its  teach- 
ings. But  we  know  that  there  are 
thousands  of  young  men  and  young 
women  in  the  Church  of  Christ  who 
•do  need  the  refreshing  and  the  up- 
building" which  comes  from  the  ex- 
position of  these  great  truths.  We 
do  know  that  there  are  many  who 
need  to  have  the  word  of  God 
brought  home  to  them,  so  that  they 
may  live  according  to  it  and  entitle 
themselves  to  the  rich  blessings 
which  are  promised  to  the  faithful 
and  the  good.  Not  only  do  we 
know  that  there  are  to  be  found 
thousands  of  such  young  men  and 
young  women  within  the  Church, 
who  are  sorely  in  need  of  these 
saving  gospel  principles,  but  we 
know  that  there  are  countless  mil- 
lions, both  of  young  and  old  in  the 
world,  who  need  these  great  truths 
and  their  adoption  in  their  lives. 
Hence  we  are  confronted  with  this 
momentous  question :  how  shall  we 
perform  our  service  and  our  obliga- 
tion to  those  who  are  not  here,  and 
who  do  not  come  within  the  sound 
pi  the  inspired  voices  which  have 
so  eloquently  and  impressively  de- 
clared the  great  truths  of  the  gos- 
pel? 

Some  one  said  yesterday  that  this 
was  a  representative  gathering.  I 
think  it  is  indeed  representative,  be- 


cause as  you  look  over  the  faces  of 
the  men  and  women  here  you  see 
that  they  are  in  the  main  the  officers 
of  the  Church,  the  officers  of  the 
various  organizations  which  make 
up  the  Church;  and  it  is  fortunate 
indeed  that  these  men  and  women 
come  to  receive  the  word  of  the 
Lord,  and  are  able  to  carry  it  back- 
to  those  whom  they  represent.  We 
have  been  given  these  Church  or- 
ganizations to  provide  for  all  the 
needs  of  the  people.  There  is  the 
great  organization  of  the  priest- 
hood, with  the  various  quorums, 
appointed  by  the  Lord.  How  emi- 
nently proper  and  fit  it  is  that  these 
quorums  of  the  priesthood  should 
see  to  it  that  the  word  of  God  is 
taught  to  their  members,  and  that 
they  use  their  good  offices  to  see 
that '  these  great  principles  of  the 
priesthood  and  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  are  made  applicable  in 
the  lives  of  those  to  whom  this  dele- 
gation of  authority  is  given.  To  my 
brethren  who  preside  over  these 
quorums  I  suggest  that  when  they 
go  to  their  homes  they  try  to  give 
to  those  who  have  not  come  to  this 
great  gathering  of  the  Saints,  some- 
thing of  the  Spirit  and  of  the  words 
of  instruction  that  have  been  here  so 
forcibly  and  impressively  given. 

Aside  from  the  quorums  of  the 
priesthood  there  are  the  auxiliary 
organizations  of  the  Church,  given 
through  the  providence  of  the 
Lord  as  helps  to  the  priesthood, 
for  the  establishment  of  his  word 
and  truth  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people.  These  organizations  are 
chiefly  devoted  to  the  care  and  nur- 
ture of  the  young  in  the  principles 
of  the  gospel.  What  remarkable 
opportunities  we  enjoy  in  these 
splendid  organizations,  but  how 
essential  it  is  that  every  one  of 
them  be  used  to  its  full  extent.  To 
my  thinking,  there  has  never  been 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS. 


65 


a  time  in  the  history  of  the  Church 
when  there  was  more  real  need  of 
using-  these  great  auxiliary  organ- 
izations of  the  Church  to  the  full 
measure  of  their  capacity,  than  there 
is  today.  Our  young  people  are 
surrounded  with  influences,  the  like 
of  which  have  seldom,  if  ever,  been 
brought  to  them  in  such  large  meas- 
ure as  we  see  now.  Everywhere 
and  on  every  hand  come  the  influ- 
ences of  the  world.  In  our  schools, 
in  the  work  in  which  our  young 
people  engage,  in  every  environ- 
ment of  their  lives  is  bo  be  found 
prominently  and  predominantly  the 
influence  of  the  world.  Our  schools 
are  devoted  to  tne  culture  that 
comes  to  the  mind.  They  do  some- 
thing to  help  improve  the  bodies  of 
the  boys  and  girls,  but  they  elim- 
inate every  single  thing  that  would 
contribute  to  their  spiritual  growth 
and  advancement.  They  will  not 
even  permit  the  reading- of  the  word 
of  God  without  comment  in  many 
of  them,  and  they  place  the  ban- up- 
on any  teaching  that  tends  to  teach 
boys  and  girls  their  relationship  to 
God,  and  their  true  relationship  to 
each  other.  All  that  partakes  of 
the  Spirit  has  been  banished  from 
the  schools.  What  a  great  need 
there  is  for  something  to  take  the 
place  of  this  great  loss  in  the  edu- 
cational processes  of  the  clay.  How 
necessary  it  is  then  that  the  Sunday 
Schools,  the  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations,  the  Religion  Classes, 
and  the  Primary  Associations,  re- 
ceive the  support  and  the  coopera- 
tive assistance  of  every  man  and 
every  woman  in  this  Church. 

I  tell  you,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, we  cannot  hope  to  counteract 
these  outside  influences  unless  we 
unite  in  bringing  to  bear  upon  the 
minds  and  the  hearts  and  the  souls 
of  our  boys  and  girls  the  precious 


influences  of  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  We  must  let  them  know 
the  beauty,  the  comprehensiveness, 
the  desirability  of  the  incorporation 
of  these  great  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel in  their  lives.  We  must  coun- 
teract this  environment.  We  must 
let  them  know  that  the  spirit  of  the 
world  will  lead  them  away  from  the 
Spirit  of  God,  and  we  must  infuse 
into  them  a  testimony  of  the  truth 
of  this  gospel,  and  a  desire  to  live 
it  and  to  keep  the  commandments 
of  God.  To  that  end  I  take  it  we 
must  use  the  utmost  of  our  endeav- 
or to  teach  our  boys  and  girls  to 
keep  themselves  ever  clean  and 
pure  and  wholesome,  so  that  they 
may  be  in  condition  to  receive  of 
the  Spirit  of  God  and  a  testimony 
of  the  truth.  The  Spirit  of  God 
cannot  dwell  in  unclean  persons, 
and  whenever  our  boys  and  girls 
are  permitted  to  go  astray,  they 
alienate  themselves  from  this  be- 
nign Spirit  which  keeps  them  true, 
and  which  will  lead  them  back  into 
the  presence  of  their  Father  in 
heaven. 

I  plead  for  the  young  people  of 
the  Church.  We  have  all  the 
agencies  that  we  need.  Unlike  the 
people  of  the  world,  we  have  every 
organization  that  is  necessary  for 
the  care  and  the  protection  of  oUr 
youth.  I  have  heard  men  and  wo- 
men engaged  in  the  social  work  of 
the  world  wonder  what  on  earth 
they  could  do  to  meet  the  emer- 
gency that  has  arisen  at  this  time 
of  war,  and  to  provide  methods 
and  means  of  protection  against  the 
ev'ls  that .  war  always  brings  to 
.people.  We  have  that  protection ; 
all  of  these  means  are  at  our  dis- 
posal, ami  it  seems  to  me  that  it  is 
for  us  here  highly  to  resolve  that 
each  and  every  one  of  us,  as  the 
representatives    of   the    people  of 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


God,  will  use  our  best  effort,  will 
■devote  ourselves  and  lend  ourselves 
to  the  great  task  of  keeping  our 
boys  and  girls  free  from  the  influ- 
ences of  the  world,  and  of  implant- 
ing in  their  hearts  the  sacred  prin- 
ciples of  truth  which  have  been 
enunciated  here  at  this  great  con- 
ference of  the  Church. 

No  man  can  do  a  bigger  thing, 
nor  a  better  thing  in  this  world, 
than  to  save  his  fellowmen.  No 
man  can  do  a  bigger  job  than  to 
teach  boys  and  girls  the  principles 
of  truth.  We  are  essentially  a 
great  body  of  teachers.  We  ought 
to  devote  ourselves  to  our  callings. 
We  ought  to  equip  ourselves  with 
everything  that  we  can  get  in  order 
to  help  us  counteract  the  evils  that 
come  into  our  midst,  and  to  keep 
our  boys  and  girls  true.  We  have 
heard,  in  a  most  impressive  way,  of 
the  destiny  of  America.  We  believe 
that  which  has  been  said.  We  all 
know  that  this  is  the  land  of  Zion, 
and  that  from  this  great  country 
shall  go  forth  the  saving  principles 
of  liberty  and  freedom  to  the  ends 
of  the  earth. 

Is  it  presumptuous  to  say  that 
this  great  land  of  America  can  only 
accomplish  its  high  mission  in  the 
world,  just  to  the  extent  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  accomplishes  and  ful- 
fills its  great  destiny  among  God's 
children  ?  I  believe  it  to  be  the 
truth.  I  believe  that  right  here  is 
the  nucleus  of  the  great  principles 
of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
must  spread  out  from  these  moun- 
tain valleys  into  this  gxeat  land  of 
America,  and  from  thence  to  the 
very  remote  corners  of  the  earth,  in 
order  that  people  may  be  given  the 
opportunity  of  embracing  the  gos- 
pel of  Christ,  which  is  the  true  law 
of  liberty.    God  help  us,  my  breth- 


ren and  sisters,  to  so  live  this  gos- 
pel that  the  sermon  of  our  lives 
shall  preach  it  everywhere  we  are 
known  and  (spoken  of,  and  help 
us  to  protect  ourselves  against  the 
incursion  of  the  follies  and  the  sins 
of  the  world,  to  keep  ourselves  im- 
maculate and  spotless  before  God, 
that  his  Spirit  may  be  with  us  and 
go  out  from  among  us.  These  are 
the  desires  of  my  heart,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  they  are  the  desires  of 
the  men  and  women  who  are  here 
assembled.  May  we  all  go  forth 
and  keep  the  commandments  of 
God,  and  teach  our  children  in 
their  homes  and  the  organizations 
of  the  Church  the  truth  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel,  and  prevail  upon 
them  to  live  clear  and  free  from 
the  sins  of  the  world,  I  humbly 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Edna  Gottberg  sang  the  sacred 
solo,  "I  will  lift  up  mine  eyes  to 
the  hills,"  Psalm  121. 

Announcement  was  made  of  the 
holding  of  overflow  meetings  to- 
morrow in  the  Assembly  Hall,  10  a. 
m.,  with  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards, 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  pre- 
siding; 2  p.  m.,  with  Elder 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  presiding; 
also  open  air  meetings,  near  the 
Bureau  of  Information,  the  weather 
permitting,  at  10  o'clock,  a.  m.,  with 
Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy,  presiding ; 
and  at  2  p.  m.,  with  Elder  David  O. 
McKay,  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  presiding. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  Doxology,  and  the  closing 
prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Junius 
F.  Wrells  of  the  General  Board,  Y. 
M.  M.  I.  A. 

^  Conference  adjourned  until  10 
o'clock  Sunday  morning. 


THIRD  DAY. 


Conference  continued  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle, Sunday,  October  6,  1918,  10 
o'clock  a.  m.,  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  presiding. 

The  great  congregation,  filling 
every  available  space,  was  called 
to  order  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn,  "Come,  let  us  anew  our 
journey  pursue." 

Elder  Arthur  Winter,  offered 
prayer. 

The  hymn,  "Sweet  is  the  peace 
the  gospel  brings,"  was  sung  by 
the  choir. 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  said: 
"I  understand  there  are  42  mem- 
bers of  our  choir,  many  of  them 
among  the  best  of  our  singers,  who 
are  now  in  the  military  service  of 
the  United  States."  He  also  an- 
nounced the  overflow  meetings  in 
the  /Assembly  Hall ;  and  at  the  Bu- 
reau of  Information,  the  weather 
permitting. 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN. 

Why  should  we  come  together,  so 
often  in  worship? — Purpose  of  meet- 
ing is  to  learn  to  do  better — The 
lesson  of  the  Pharisee — The  funda- 
mental make-up  of  Government  and 
Church  is  their  sons  and  daughters 
— To  make  good  men  and  women  of 
them  is  an  end  for  which  we  strug- 
gle— An  example  of  missionary 
work — Importance  of  the  greatest 
Church  and  Nation — A  letter  from 
which  may  be  learned  how  more 
successfully  to  teach — Institutions 
in  which  the  Latter-day  Saints  have 
aid  in  teaching  their  children. 

I  certainly  desire  that  while  I 
stand  before  th;s  great  congrega- 
tion, the  words  I  speak  mav  be 
prompted  by  that  same  excellent 


spirit  which  has  directed  the  other 
utterances  of  this  conference. 

It  seems  odd  that  we  should  meet 
together  so  frequently  and  should 
have  such  tremendous  interest  in 
this  one  subject — the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  reason  we  are 
not  weary  from  this  repetition  is 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
classic.  A  classic  grows  better  and 
dearer  and  sweeter  with  repetition, 
"it  is  always  new  and  incapable  of 
growing  old." 

As  I  see  these  presidents  of  stakes 
their  counselors,  their  bishops  of 
wards  and  counselors,  high  coun- 
cilors and  other  leading  Church 
men  sitting  here  day  after  day 
listening  to  the  teachings  of  the 
servants  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
and  realize  what  important  elements 
they  are  in  a  business  and  financial 
way,  in  their  respective  com- 
munities, I  appreciate  that  they 
regard,  as  do  we  all,  these  meetings, 
these  conferences,  this  worship  of 
ours,  as  of  first  importance.  What 
are  we  struggling  for  ?  We  are  aim- 
ing to  reach  perfection.  We  sang 
it  yesterday  in  that  glorious  hymn : 
"Thus  on  to  eternal  perfection,  the 
honest  and  faithful  will  go." 

It  was  intimated  yesterday  by  one 
speaker  that  perhaps  all  of  us  are 
not  living  in  strict  conformity  with 
some  of  the  teachings  and  practices 
of  the  Church.  It  was  said,  with 
regret,  that  some  of  the  members 
of  the  Church  may  not  be  prayerful. 
Perhaps  some  do  not  pray  in  secret, 
and  there  may  be  some  who  do  not 
pray  with  their  families.  Why  is  it 
necessary  that  we  should  pray  in 
secret  and  that  frequently?  Why  is 
it  necessary  that  we  should  pray 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


With  our  families?  Why  is  it 
necessary  that  we  should  come  to- 
gether so  often  to  worship?,  The 
reason  is  because  we  are  clothe;! 
upon  with  mortality.  We  all  have 
tremendous  imperfections.  We  all 
have  shortcoming's  and  weaknesses 
to  overcome.  We  pray  in  secret, 
we  pray  with  our  families,  we  go 
to  our  places  of  worship,  we  come 
together  as  we  have  met  this  morn- 
ing to  worship  in  order  that  we  may 
become  perfect,  even  as  our  Father 
in  heaven  is  perfect.  When  we  go 
from  this  building,  this  conference 
will  not  have  been  a  complete  suc- 
cess if  as  a  result  of  it  we  say  only 
in  our  hearts,  "How  well  the  breth- 
ren have  spoken."  We  should  leave 
this  service  with  bowed  hear1s  think- 
ing. These  meetings  should  make 
us  all  reflect  and  resolve  anew  to  be 
better.  This  lesson  is  beautifully 
and  forcefully  taught  by  the  fol- 
lowing familiar  but  classic  lines 
from  the  scriptures : 

Two  men  went  up  into  the  temple 
to  pray;  the  one  a  Pharisee,  and  the 
other  a  publican. 

The  Pharisee  stood  and  prayed  thus 
with  himself,  God,  I  thank  thee,  that 
I  am  not  as  other  men  are,  extortion- 
ers, unjust,  adulterers,  or  even  as  this 
publican. 

1  fast  twice  in  the  week,  I  give  tithes 
of  all  that  I  possess. 

And  the  publican,  standing  afar  off, 
would  not  lift  up  so  much  as  his  eyes 
unto  heaven,  but  smote  upon  his 
breast,  saying,  God  be  merciful  to 
me  a  sinner. 

And  the  great  Master  said : 
I  tell  you,  this  man  went  down  to 
his  house  justified  rather  than  the 
other;  for  every  one  that  exalteth  him- 
self shall  be  abased;  and  he  that  hum- 
bleth  himself  shall  be  exalted. 

Here  in  humility  we  are  studying, 
teaching,  learning,  helping  one  an- 
other to  be  perfect  in  accordance 


with  the  teachings  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  We  believe  in  being 
honest.  Are  we  honest?  We  be- 
lieve in  being  true.  Are  we  true? 
We  believe  in  being  chaste.  Are  we 
chaste?  We  believe  in  being  benev- 
olent. Do  we  love  the  unfor- 
tunate, do  we  feed  the  hungry?  do 
we  clothe  the  naked  ?  do  we  visit  the 
widows  and  the  fatherless?  We 
believe  in  .doing  good  to  all  men.  All 
these  teachings  are  a  part  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Until  we  are 
able  to  love  perfectly  in  accordance 
with  it,  we  have  reason  to  meet,  we 
have  reason  to  pray,  we  have  reason 
to  worship,  we  have  reason  to  par- 
take of  the  sacrament.  All  these 
things  we  aim  to  do  that  we  may 
finally  be  perfect,  even  as  our  Father 
in  heaven  is  perfect. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ — it  in- 
cludes every  earthly  and  heavenly 
thing  that  is  good  for  man.  Every 
rule,  every  teaching,  every  philoso- 
phy, every  principle,  that  lifts  man 
up,  that  makes  him  strong,  that 
makes  him  better,  that  makes  him 
Godlike — all  these  things  belong  to 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  That  we 
may  more  nearly  live  in  accordance 
with  it  is  the  purpose  of  our  meet- 
ing. If  here  or  elsewhere,  in  any 
philosophy,  or  in  any  science,  there 
"is  anything  virtuous,  lovely,  or  of 
good  report,  or  praiseworthy," 
whether  it  be  in  our  own  country,  or 
any  other  country,  whether  it  be  in 
our  own  or  any  other  church,  we. 
Fatter-day  Saints,  seek  for  these 
things. 

In  our  great  democratic  govern- 
ment, the  fundamental  element  in 
its  makeup  is  its  daughters  and  its 
sons.  In  this  Church  of  ours,  in 
our  own  families,  the  fundamental 
element  is  also  our  daughters  and 
our  sons.  To  make  these  men  and 
women    truly    good,    truly    wise,  • 


ELDER  IV M.  H.  RICHARDS. 


69 


truly  Godlike,  is  one  of  the  ends.for 
which  we  struggle.  The  spirit  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  tends  to 
lift  men  up — to  make  them  stronger 
and  better.  Nor  are  our  labors  con- 
fined to  our  own  families.  We  do 
missionary  work  with  our  friends 
and  with  our  associates  and  with 
our  neighbors. 

Only  a  little  while  ago  I  sat  dur- 
ing an  evening  with  a  man  who  is 
comparatively  old.  He  said  that 
one  of  the  traveling  brethren  of  the 
Church  came  to  him  when  he  was 
a  young  man,  and  he  said,  "I  will 
never  forget  the  lessons  he  taught 
me."  He  came  into  my  place  in  the 
early  evening;  and  explained  that 
he  was  to  leave  at  five  o'clock  the 
next  morning,  but  he  said,  'I  want 
to  talk  to  you.  I  want  to  teach  you. 
I  want  you  to  know  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  I  want  you  to  be  a 
man.  I  want  you  to  be  clean.  I 
want  you  to  read  the  scriptures,  I 
want  you  to  be  familiar  with  the 
life  and  teachings  of  Jesus  of  Naz- 
areth. 

"He  not  only  pleaded  with  me  for 
one  hour  or  two  hours,  but  all  night 
long.  At  five  o'clock  in  the  morning 
his  team  came  and  he  drove  away 
without  having-  taken  off  his  coat 
or  his  shoes.  He  would  not  be  sat- 
isfied until  I  told  him  that  I  would 
give  the  matter  serious  considera- 
tion, and  if  upon  investigation  I 
found  these  things  as  he  represented. 
I  would  be  willing  to  lay  my  work 
aside  and  go  into  the  mission  field 
and  teach  others.  He  came  to  me 
thus  earnestly  when  I  was  a  boy, 
and  he  made  me  a  man.  He  taught 
me  to  look  towards  the  rising  sun. 
He  gave  me  art  ambition.  He  taught 
me  to  be  clean. 

"I  have  introduced  you  to  my 
sons  and  to  my  daughters,  to  my 
sons-in-law  and  my  daughters-in- 


law  and  you  have  ,seen  my  grand- 
children. For  these,  for  the  example 
I  have  set  them,  I  am  indebted  to 
the  man  who  labored  so  earnestly  all 
night  long  to  induce  me  to  take  a 
mission.  If  some  degree  of  success 
is  coming  to  my  children  and  you 
can  see  that  it  is,  I  feel  sure,  that  it 
is  to  a  degree  because  of,  and  not 
in  spite  of,  the  life  of  their  father." 
This  is  an  example  of  the  intense 
missionary  spirit — the  desire  to  do 
good  to  others — that  fills  the  hearts 
of  faithful  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  important  element  in  the 
Church,  in  the  Nation,  in  the  family, 
as  I  have  said  already,  is  our 
daughters  and  our  sons.  We  want 
them  to  be  true,  we  want  them  to 
be  good,  we  want  them  to  be  vir- 
tuous. We  are  meeting  here,  we  are 
uniting  our  hearts,  we  are  uniting 
our  faith  in  prayer  to  our  Father  in 
heaven  that  he  will  give  us  the 
power  to  bring  them  up  as  they 
ought  to  be  brought  up.  O,  that  we 
had  the  faith,  O,  that  we  had  the 
power,  O,  that  we  had  lived  the  life 
that  would  bring  such  faith  that  we 
could  know  that  those  who  have 
gone  abroad,  would  come  back  to 
us  clean,  noble,  men  of  God,  pro- 
tected bv  his  Soirit  from  every 
harm !  Who  is  there  here  that  has 
alwavs  prayed,  who  is  there  here 
that  has  alwavs  had  the  faith,  who  is 
there  here  that  alwavs  partakes  of 
the  sacrament  worthilv,  and  there- 
fore has  the  right  to  expect  such  a 
blessing?  Who  is  there  here  that 
deserves  to  have  the  life  of  his  son 
nreserved  bv  the  power  of  God? 
Being  mortal  we  each  and  all  have 
reason  to  .smite  upon  our  breasts 
and  exclaim,  "Father,  have  mercv  on 
me  s  sinner."  We  are  struggling 
for  the  good,  for  the  salvation,  for 
the  education,  for  the  progress,  of 
our  daughters  and  our  sons.   In  this 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


great  struggle  we  need  our  heavenly 
Father's  help. 

I  have  in  my  hands  a  recent  num- 
ber of  The  Outlook.  In  it  is  a  letter 
written  by  a  father  to  his  soldier 
son.  From  this  letter,  some  of  us 
may  perhaps  learn  how,  more  suc- 
cessfully to  teach  our  own  sons. — I 
quote  with  a  few  slight  changes  the 
following  portions  of  the  letter. 

My  son,  hold  fast  always  to  the 
grand  old  Anglo-Saxon  ideals  of  per- 
sonal chastity.  So  live,  that  when  you 
return,  you  will  not  have  to  turn  away 
from  your  mother's  or  your  sister's 
kiss. 

The  part  religion  will  play  in  all 
these  things  of  which  I. have  written, 
I  shall  not  amplify,  but  only  remark, 
it  needs  all  the  assistance  of  a  super- 
natural faith,  a  faith  in  God,  to  keep 
most  of  us,  all  the  time,  up  to  the 
level  of  our  possibilities." 

We  pray,  we  fast,  we  partake  of 
the  sacrament, — we  live  the  lives  of 
Latter-day  Saints  so  as  to  have  this 
faith. 

T  have  written  you  a  long  letter; 
but,  as  I  see  before  me  on  my  table 
this  portrait  of  a  boy  in  uniform  who 
is  taller  than  his  father,  and,  thank 
God,  better  equipped  for  life  and  fitter 
to  command  men  and  himself,  I  have 
been  moved  to  go  on  and  on  to  the 
point  of  tedium.  Let  me  whisper  a 
secret.  While  it  has  tickled  my  vanity 
to  know  how  proud  you  are  of  your 
father's  little  successes,  and  while  this 
has  been  a  real  spur  to  me,  yet  all 
the  while  I  know,  and  so  should  you, 
that  you,  my  son,  are  my  real  success. 
Every  line  of  your  clean,  strong  body, 
every  expression  of  your  alert,  steadv 
mind,  has  been  to  me  a  joy  beyond  all 
rewards  of  money  or  distinction  or 
service.  I  suppose  children  never 
can  know  until  too  late  what  they 
mean  to  parents.  If  this  letter  were 
not  already  so  long,  I  could  tell  you 
tales  of  men  known  to  me  personally 
and  to  the  whole  world,  who  would 
gl?dly  give  every  dollar  they  possess 
and  every  shred  of  fame,  if  their  sons 


were  only  honorable,  useful,  and  noble 
men.  I  blush  to  think  how  often  I've 
boasted  of  you,  my  boy.  All  that  ever 
I  dreamed  of  doing  or  being  I  know 
you  will  accomplish,  if  you  come 
through  this  war  alive. 

As  for  that,  it  is  in  the  hands  of  you 
and  God.  Remember  there  are  a 
thousand  things  worse  than  being 
dead.  I  know  you  will  never  take  an 
ignoble  chance  to  live  or  refuse  a 
noble  chance  to  die.  Either  would  be 
sorrow's  crown  of  sorrow  to  your 
mother  and  me,  who  have  poured  into 
your  life  more  than  you  can  ever  sur- 
mise— more,  even,  than  we  possessed, 
it  seems — of  high  purpose  and  expecta- 
tion and  patriotism.  You  are  the 
flower  and  fruit  of  our  life;  therefore, 
we  thank  God  daily  that  you  are  a 
good  soldier  of  the  world's  welfare 
and  of  the  American  flag. 

We  have  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  our  Re- 
ligion Classes,  the  Primary  Associa- 
tions, the  Mutual  Improvement  As- 
sociations and  the  Sabbath-Schools, 
all  devoted  to  the  training  of  our 
boys  and  girls.  In  these  we  strug- 
gle, we  try,  we  pray,  we  fast,  we 
teach,  we  partake  of  #ie  sacrament, 
and  we  worship,  in  the  hope  that 
our  Father  in  heaven  will  bless  us 
with  wisdom  to  so  bring  up  our 
daughters  and  our  sons  that  to  us, 
to  him,  to  the  Church,  and  to  the 
country,  they  will  be  a  credit. 

A  .sacred  tenor  solo :  "O  divine 
Redeemer,"  was  sung  by  G.  W. 
Charlesworth,  of  Idaho  Falls. 

ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH. 

(Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church.) 

I  am  grateful  for  another  priv- 
ilege of  meeting  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  in  general  conference, 
and  trust  that  while  I  stand  before 
you  I  may  be  blessed  with  that 
same  sweet  spirit  which  has  ac- 


ELDER  HYRUM  G.  SMITH 


71 


companied  my  brethren  who  have 
already  spoken  to  you.  I  know 
•that  our  Father  in  heaven  is  kind 
and  merciful  unto  us,  and  that  he, 
like  all  natural  fathers,  is  grieved 
when  he  hears  his  children  cry  in 
distress.  He  is  also  grieved  when 
he  sees  his  children  suffering  be- 
cause of  their  sins  or  their  weak- 
nesses. Our  Father  in  heaven, 
like  our  fathers  in  the  flesh,  loves 
to  see  our  purity  and  our  good 
lives,  our  good  examples ;  he  loves 
to  see  us  grow  in  good  and  in  do- 
ing good. 

In  section  1  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  we  read  these  distinctive 
words : 

"For  I  the  Lord  cannot  look  upon 
sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allow- 
ance; 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven." 

Now,  he  does  not  say  how  soon 
that  forgiveness  shall  come,  but 
does  make  it  plain  that  he  will  for- 
give those  who  repent  and  keep  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord. 

T  have  been  very  much  blessed 
and  edified  in  the  instructions  of 
the  general  authorities  of  the 
Church,  and  in  their  remarks  con- 
cencerning  the  holy  priesthood  and 
the  officers  therein.  I  desire  to  add 
my  testimonv  concerning  the  faith- 
fulness of  the  brethren  and  sisters 
who  are  called  into  positions  of  re- 
sponsibility throughout  the  stakes 
and  wards  of  Zion,  for  we  have  men 
and  women  who  love  the  Lord,  who 
love  to  obey  his  commandments, 
and  are  receiving  his  mercies  and 
favors  in  their  labors,  in  their 
homes  and  in  their  ministry  among 
the  people ;  and  those  who  are  cry- 
ing unto  the  Lord,  or  those  who 
are  suffering  in  sorrow  or  sin  are 


but  few.  We  have  also  discovered 
beauty  and  harmony  in  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church.  We  find 
here  the  order  of  which  the  Lord 
has  spoken,  the  different  officers  of 
the  holy  priesthood,  from  the  low- 
est to  the  highest,  and  each  one 
knows  his  place  and  his  duties. 
The  deacon  knows  his  place,  the 
teacher  knows  his,  the  priest,  his, 
and  so  on  up  the  scale  in  the  priest- 
hood. 

Elders  know  their  places  and 
their  duties.  Many,  of  them  go 
abroad  in  the  earth  preaching  the 
gospel,  baptizing  honest  and  con- 
verted souls  into  the  fold  of  Christ. 
They  do  not  do  these  things  just 
because  they  have  the  priesthood, 
but  because  they  have  been  given 
special  appointment  and  they  are 
working  in  the  order  which  has 
been  appointed  unto  them.  Going 
on  up  the  ladder  in  the  priesthood, 
we  have  other  officers  who  labor 
not  only  because  they  have,  been 
given  an  office  of.  power  and  au- 
thority, but  because  they  have  been 
called  and  appointed  and  given  a 
particular  field  of  labor.  We  have 
bishops  who  preside  over  wards. 
Each  one  presides  over  the  partic- 
ular ward  which  has  been  ap- 
pointed unto  him.  He  does  not  pre- 
side everywhere  just  because  he  is 
a  bishop.  Neither  does  the  elder 
labor  everywhere  just  because  he  is 
an  elder,  but  he  labors  only  in  the 
field  appointed  unto  him. 

We  have  in  the  Church  a  num- 
ber of  men  who  have  been  called 
and  ordained  to  administer  bless- 
ings unto  the  people,  blessings  of 
comfort,  blessings  of  prophecy, 
when  they  are  directed  so  to  do. 
These  men  are  given  an  office  in 
the  priesthood,  and  just  because 
they  have  this  office,  it  does  not 
mean  that  they  can  bless  every- 


7  2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


where  and  everybody,  but,  like  the 
bishops,  elders,  and  other  officers  in 
the  priesthood,  they  are  given  their 
particular  field  of  labor.  So  we 
would  have  the  Latter-day  Saints 
understand  that  in  the  Church, which 
is  a  part  of  the  kingdom  of  God, 
there  is  order,  and  the  officers  of 
the  priesthood  are  the  men  who 
should  establish  and  maintain  this 
order  in  the  Church,  that  the  work 
of  the  Lord  may  go  on  with  his 
blessings  upon  it.  There  a|re  a 
number  of  members  of  the  Church 
who  go  about  from  place  to  place, 
from  one  ward  and  from  one  stake 
to  another,  seeking  their  blessings, 
which  may  be  permissible  if  done  in 
strict  accordance  with  the  estab- 
lished order  of  the  Church  ;  other- 
wise they  are  out  of  order.  If  they 
have  a  righteous  purpose,  a  right- 
eous desire,  it  is  their  privilege  to 
secure  their  blessings  from  the 
Lord  at  the  hands  of  the  brethren 
who  are  ordained  to  the  office  of 
patriarch ;  but  I  would  like  to  ad- 
monish my  brethren  and  sisters  not 
to  seek  blessings  of  men  only,  but 
seek  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  at 
the  hands  of  his  authorized  ser- 
vants. It  does  not  matter  particu- 
larly who  the  man  is,  if  he  holds  the 
keys  to  your  blessing's,  and  if  you 
live  in  his  stake  or  in  his  field  of 
labor,  he  is  authorized  to  adminis- 
ter unto  you  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord. 

I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  we  shall  all  receive  our  bless- 
ings, and  that  we  shall  understand 
that  they  are  predicated  upon  obe- 
dience to  the  law  of  the  Lord.  The 
Lord  has  made  the  laws  upon  which 
our  blessings  are  predicated,  and  if 
we  observe  those  laws  then  the 
Lord  is  bound,  he  says,  and  we  shall 
receive  the  blessing ;  but  if  we  have 
committed  sins  which  are  displeas- 


ing before  the  Lord,  if  we  have 
broken  his  commandments,  we  may 
deceive  his  servants  here  upon  the 
earth,  we  may  deceive  the  bishops, 
the  presidents,  the  patriarchs,  or 
other  servants  of  God,  perhaps  may 
secure  the  words  of  a  blessing,  but 
the  Lord  who  gave  the  command- 
ment, who  knows  the  law,  who 
knows  our  sins,  will  not  give  the 
blessing  until  we  have  rendered 
obedience  unto  the  law  upon  which 
it  is  predicated.  So  that,  though  it 
may  be  possible  for  us  to  deceive 
our  fellowmen,  let  us  not  think  that 
we  can  deceive  the  Lord ;  for  he 
knows  our  hearts,  our  desires,  our 
deeds,  and  will  reward  us  day  and 
night,  year  in  and  year  out,  ac- 
cording to  our  faithfulness  in  ob- 
serving" his  commandments  as  they 
have  been  given  unto  us. 

So  let  us,  brethren  and  sisters, 
learn  the  lawrs  upon  which  our 
blessings  are  predicated,  and  then 
render  obedience  unto  them.  Then 
our  promises  will  be  sure  and  we 
will  not  have  to  practice  deception 
in  any  way  to  get  a  blessing  which 
might  otherwise  be  withheld  from 
us. 

The  Lord  desires  to  bless  his 
children,  he  has  in  store  every  bless- 
ing that  is  needful  for  the  faith- 
ful ;  and,  as  his  servant,  I  invoke 
his  blessings  upon  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  upon  the  faith- 
ful Latter-day  Saints  throughout 
the  world,  whether  they  be  gath- 
ered here,  or  whether  they  be  in 
their  homes  abroad,  I  invoke  the 
blessings  of  God  upon  them  all. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  continue 
to  bless  his  servants  whom  he  has 
called  to  hold  positions  of  responsi- 
bility in  his  Church;  that  he  will 
continue  to  heal  up  the  body  of  our 
dear  president,  that  he  will  comfort 
and  sustain  him  and  preserve  him 


ELDER  CHARLES  IV.  NIBLEY. 


73 


yet  many  years  to  live  with  us  in 
usefulness  according  to  his  desires, 
to  teach  us  both  by  his  word  and  by 
his  deed,  as  he  has  done  so  nobly 
in  the  past  seventy  years.  We  love 
him  and  we  know  the  Lord  loves 
him.  We  cannot  hold  up  before 
our  Father  in  heaven  a  more  no- 
ble example  of  faithfulness  in  all 
the  history  of  the  Church.  And 
so  I  pray  with  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  continue 
to  remember  him,  and  also  his  as- 
sociates in  the  holy  priesthood  and 
in  the  organizations  of  the  Church, 
down  to  the  least  and  Hast  one 
called,  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
may  continue  to  grow  in  the  earth. 
I  also  pray  and  invoke  the  blessings 
of  the  Lord  upon  good  governments 
throughout  the  world,  upon  those 
who  are  called  to  establish  good 
governments,  that  these  may  be  es- 
tablished as  this  government  was 
established,  under  the  power  and 
influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters  ;  God  bless  all  faithful  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  the  honest  in 
heart  in  all  the  world,  that  the  truth 
may  be  learned  and  obeyed,  that 
God's  purposes  may  be  brought  to 
pass,  that  peace  again  may  soon 
come  to  the  world ;  and  I  pray  for 
these  blessings  and  invoke  them  up- 
on us  all  in  the  name  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Iniz  Robinson,  of  the  California 
mission,  sang  a  sacred  solo,  en- 
titled, "My  Fa:th  in  Thee." 

ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 

(Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church.) 

This  is  a  duty  from  which  I  nat- 
urally shrink.    To  address  so  large 


a  congregation  as  I  see  before  me, 
rather  fills  my  spirit  with  awe. 
Nevertheless,  I  am  glad  to  meet 
with  you  and  to  try  to  fulfil  the 
duties  always  that  are  assigned  me 
in  the  Church. 

I  see  nothing  but  good  ahead  for 
Israel,  for  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  The 
Church  is  increasing,  I  believe,  in 
every  way — increasing  in  numbers 
and  increasing  also  in  faith  and 
good  works.  Surely  this  is  a  day 
when  our  faith  should  be  made 
stronger,  when  we  see  what  is 
transpiring  in  the  world  and  what 
is  being  brought  to  pass  ;  this  day 
when  thrones  are  tottering  and  fall- 
ing ;  when  abdications  of  kings  and 
kingly  powers  are  taking  place 
when  everything  is  in  commotion 
and  when  men's  hearts  are  failing 
them  for  fear  of  the  things  that 
are  coming  or  transpiring  upon  the 
earth. 

I  do  not  see  how  it  could  be  other- 
wise than  that  our  faith  in  the  Lord 
and  in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
should  increase.  The  Church 
from  the  beginning  has  grown,  not- 
withstanding the  terrible  oppos:- 
tion  of  ignorance,  chiefly  ignorance  ; 
the  opposition,  too,  of  maliciousness, 
wickedness,  persecutions  which  it 
endured  until  very  recent  years, 
and  which  was  so  pronounced 
against  it  by  all  people  misin- 
formed concerning  it. 

During  the  fourteen  years  in 
which  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  led 
the  Church,  it  increased,  notwith'- 
standing  the  malicious  and  wicked 
opposition  that  he  encountered  and 
that  the  Church  encountered  under 
his  presidency.  During  the  thirty- 
three  years  that  President  Young 
led  the  Church,  notwithstanding  its 
trials  and  tribulations,  it  increased 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  a  wonderful  way — a  marvelous 
work  and  a  wonder.  In  the  ten 
years  that  President  Taylor  pre- 
sided over  the  Church,  the  Church 
still  continued  to  grow  and  increase  ; 
and  during  the  ten  years  or  so  of 
President  Woodruff's  presidency, 
and  the  three  or  four  years  of 
President  Snow's  presidency,  mak- 
ing seventy-one  years  of  growth  of 
the  Church  in  all ;  during  the  presi- 
dency of  these  brethren  whom  I 
have  named,  it  grew  and  increased 
all  the  time.  During  the  Presidency 
of  President  Smith,  which  will  be 
seventeen  years  now  in  a  few  days, 
the  Church  has  doubled  in  numbers 
and  has  more  than  doubled  in 
wealth ;  that  is  to  say,  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  has  increased 
to  as  large  a  number  as  the  member- 
ship of  the  Church  was  after  a 
growth  of  seventy-one  years  during 
the  presidency  of  the  former  five 
presidents  of  the  Church,  and  dur- 
in  that  seventeen  years  the  Church 
has  more  than  doubled  in  wealth 
and  in  the  payment  of  tithes.  So 
that  I  see  nothing  but  growth  and 
good  and  development  and  spread- 
ing abroad  and  the  fulfilling  of  the 
mission  of  this  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Why 
should  it  not  grow?  Has  God  not 
spoken  ? 

I  sat  here  this  morning  looking 
at  this  vast  congregation,  and  I 
said  to  mvself,  "Why  are  we  here? 
Why  am  I  here?"  Well,  the  ans- 
wer came  to  my  mind  in  this  way. 
If  Joseph  Smith  had  not  declared 
that  he  had  a  manifestation  of  the 
Father  and  the  Son  and  a  visita- 
tion from  them,  and  that  he  had 
conversed  with  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  the  Almighty  God  and  Jesus 
Christ,  his  Son,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world;  that  he  had  seen  them 
and  talked  with  them  and  been  in- 


structed by  them ;  I  would  not  have 
been  here.  It  is  because  of  that 
vision  that  I  am  here,  that  my  par- 
ents received  of  that  truth,  believed 
it,  accepted  it  with  all  their  hearts, 
and  for  that  reason  primarily, 
fundamentally,  I  am  here  in  this 
conference  this  morning.  If  the 
Book  of  Mormon  had  not  been  re- 
vealed in  the  marvelous  and  miracu- 
lous way  that  it  was,  I  would  not 
have  been  here  today.  This  wonder- 
ful gathering  of  Latter-day  Saints 
that  we  see  here  today  and  which 
gathers  here  for  every  semi-annual 
conference,  would  not  ,so  gather  and 
we  would  not  behold  the  spectacle 
that  we  do  in  this  congregation,  had 
it  not  been  that  the  Lord  spoke ;  the 
Lord  manifested  himself ;  the  Lord 
sent  angels  to  reveal  his  gospel,  to 
reveal  the  Book  of  Mormon — a 
most  wonderful  and  marvelous 
manifestation.  Something  to  lay 
hold  of  from  the  Lord,  is  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  As  the  tablets  of 
stone  with  the  Ten  Commandments 
handed  down  to  Moses  became 
something  real  and  personal  in  the 
way  of  manifestation  to  the  people, 
so  also  the  Book  of  Mormon,  hand- 
ed down  in  the  miraculous  way  that 
it  has  been,  is  real  and  something 
tangible  for  us  to  take  hold  of  and 
believe.  If  it  is  not  true,  what  is 
it?  Where  did  it  come  from  if  it 
is  not  true?  If  its  origin  is  not 
what  it  proclaims  it  to  be  "then  what 
is  its  origin?  It  is  there  and  can- 
not be  explained  away  as  I  see  it, 
only  by  accepting  the  truth;  only 
by  accepting  the  statement  made  by 
the  Prophet  concerning  its  origin. 

We  all  know  of  the  witnesses  to 
it.  Three  men  testified  to  it ;  truth- 
ful men,  that  God  Almighty  sent 
down  an  angel  to  reveal  and  testify 
to  them  of  its  truth,  and  their  testi- 
mony stands ;  it  cannot  be  impeach- 


ELDER  CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY. 


75 


ed.  Had  Joseph  Smith,  in  company 
with  these  three  witnesses,  framed 
up  a  story  to  delude  and  defraud 
and  ensnare  the  world,  it  would 
have  been  quickly  exposed,  for  the 
reason  that  these  witneses,  one  and 
all  of  them,  became  bitter  enemies 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
were  cut  off  from  the  Church.  Now, 
would  not  they  have  said,  "We 
have  been  trying  to  palm  off  some- 
thing on  the  world  which  is  fraudu- 
lent, which  is  not  true,  which  is 
false?"  These  three  men  became 
bitter  enemies  of  the  Prophet;  they 
were  cut  off  from  the  Church,  as  I 
remember,  in  1838.  Oliver  Cow- 
dery  lived  for  ten  years  out  of  the 
Church ;  in  1848  he  was  rebaptized 
as  a  member  of  the  Church,  and 
I  believe  died  in  that  year.  Dur- 
ing that  ten  years  he  was  at  enmity 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
with  the  Church,  now,  wouldn't  he 
have  denounced  the  thing  as  a  fraud 
and  set  himself  straight  before  the 
world  by  publishing  to  all  the  world 
that  he  had  made  a  false  statement 
concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon,  if 
his  testimony  had  not  in  the  first 
place  been  absolutely  true? 

David  Whitmer  lived  some  forty- 
three  years  after  he  was  cut  off 
from  the  Church  in  1838  and  never 
rejoined  it.  In  1878,  the  late  Elder 
Orson  Pratt  and  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith,  who  is  with  us  today, 
visited  David  Whitmer  at  his  home 
in  Richmond,  Missouri.  That  was 
forty  years  after  David  Whitmer 
had  been  cut  off  from  the  Church. 
David  Whitmer  at  that  time  was  in 
the  possession  of  his  faculties,  clear 
and  keen.  A  number  of  his  relatives 
and  immediate  friends  who  were  not 
members  of  our  Church,  were  called 
into  his  room  and  sat  in  it  with 
Elder  Pratt  and  President  Smith, 
and  then  and  there  David  Whitmer 


retold  the  story  of  the  visit  of  the 
angel  to  him  and  of  the  voice  of 
God  affirming  that  the  Book  of 
Mormon  is  true.  For  forty  years 
this  man,  David  Whitmer,  had  been 
out  of  the  Church,  estranged  from 
it,  he  was  never  reconciled  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Don't  you 
think  that  if  he  had  been  mistaken 
as  to  seeing  and  hearing  an  angel 
and  hearing  the  voice  of  God,  would 
not  he  .in  all  that  time  have  roused 
himself  and  said,  "This  thing  is  a 
fraud ;  Joseph  Smith  was  not  a  true 
Prophet ;  our  testimony  concerning 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  false."  But 
during  all  that  time,  notwithstand- 
ing his  enmity  to  the  Church,  his 
ill-feeling  toward  the  Prophet,  he 
not  only  did  not  deny  his  testimony 
concerning  the  Book  of  Mormon 
but  affirmed  and  reaffirmed  it  time 
after  time,  and  this  latter  time  that 
I  speak  of,  in  1878,  he  affirmed  it  in 
the  strongest  possible  manner  in  the 
hearing  of  Elder  Orson  Pratt  and 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  and  a 
room  full  of  non-"Mormon"  friends, 
who  were  there  and  heard  him.  He 
declared  to  them  all  that  his  testi- 
mony was  true,  the  God's  truth ; 
that  he  did  see  and  hear  the  angel 
of  the  Lord,  and  that  he  did  hear 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  from  Heaven, 
and  that  his  testimony  concerning 
the  Book  of  Mormon  must  stand  as 
the  truth  forever. 

And  Martin  Harris,  the  third  wit- 
ness, the  same.  I  heard  Martin 
Harris  in  1870  stand  right  here  on 
this  stand,  and  although  he  had  been 
out  of  the  Church  for  thirty-two 
years,  yet  he  came  back  and  stood 
here,  and  .  I  heard  him  testify  that 
his  witness  to  the  divinity  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was  true  before 
God. 

Can  you  anywhere  in  all  the  world 
get    such    convincing    and  unim- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


peachable  testimony?  No,  you  can't. 
Well,  that  is  why  I  am  here;  that 
is  why  you  are  here ;  that  is  what 
brings  these  people  together. 

The  Lord  has  manifested  by  the 
power  of  the  Spirit  the  truth  of  his 
work,  and  that  with  this  work  he 
has  conferred  upon  this  Church 
divine  authority,  given  to  his  priest- 
hood. He  has  conferred  upon  it 
authority  to  act  in  his  name  so  that 
whenever  an  elder  of  this  Church 
shall  take  a  man  down  into  the 
water  and  baptize  him  he  does  it  by 
the  authority  of  God  and  that  or- 
dinance is  recognized  by  God  the 
Eternal  Father.  And  when  the  el- 
ders lay  hands  upon  him  and  say 
unto  him,  "Receive  ye  the  Holy 
Ghost,"  he  receives  the  Holy  Ghost. 
That  divine  authority  is  here  and  it 
is  nowhere  else  in  all  the  world  than 
here.  What !  Do  you  mean  to  say 
the  Lord  does  not  operate  with  any 
other  people,  only  the  small  number 
of  Latter-day  Saints  who  are  in  the 
world?  Oh,  no!  Oh,  no!  The  Lord 
is  operating  all  over  the  world  by 
his  power  and  manifesting  it,  oh, 
so  gloriously  these  days  in  the  bat- 
tles that  are  going  on.  The  Lord 
is  there  to  see — to  see  what?  To 
see  that  right  shall  triumph  and  that 
freedom  shall  obtain.  The  Lord  re- 
veals himself  to  the  world  in  many 
ways.  One  of  the  old  prophets  de- 
clared that  in  the  last  days  the  Lord 
will  pour  out  his  Spirit  upon  all 
flesh.  That  means  Chinese,  Japan- 
ese and  all  others  as  well  as  white 
people ;  upon  all  flesh,  he  says  he 
will  pour  out  his  Spirit. 

In  this  wonderful  age  in  which  it 
is  such  a  glorious  privilege  to  live, 
since  this  spiritual  truth  was  intro- 
duced into  the  world  through  the 
ag'ency  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
from  God  Almighty  himself,  see 
what    has    transpired ;    see  what 


has  come  to  pass!  Why,  for 
nearly  six  thousand  years  ships  had 
been  sailing  as  St.  Paul  said  he  sail- 
ed and  waited  three  days  for  a  fav- 
orable wind.  They"  could  not  go  any- 
where without  it.  Could  people 
travel  to  and  fro  as  they  do  now? 
No.  Daniel,  the  prophet,  says  that 
in  the  last  days  knowledge  shall  be 
increased — that  is,  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  .shall  be  poured  out  upon  the 
people  and  they  shall  get  more  in- 
formation, more  knowledge  than 
they  ever  had  before.  And  he  is  not 
pouring  out  that  Spirit  alone  upon 
us  but  on  all  the  world,  and,  as  the 
Prophet  Daniel  said,  knowledge 
shall  be  increased  and  many  shall 
run  to  and  fro.  I  do  not  know  how 
the  whole  changed  situation  between 
the  olden  time  and  now  could  be  put 
in  fewer  words  than  that  knowledge 
shall  be  increased  and  many  shall 
run  to  and  fro,  because  there  was 
not  so  very  much  knowledge  on 
many  things  and  people  did  not 
travel  and  had  not  the  means  to 
move  to  and  fro,  so  these  are  the 
last  days  and  the  Lord  has  poured 
out  his  Spirit  upon  the  people  and 
invention  after  invention,  multiplied 
by  the  million ;  knowledge  after 
knowledge ;  improvement  after  im- 
provement, we  see  in  so  many 
marvelous  ways.  Why  have  not 
these  inventions  come  before?  Be- 
cause the  last  days  were  not  yet 
here.  Was  the  mind  of  man  during 
the  five  or  six  thousand  years  that 
had  passed  up  to  the  time  of  the 
great  manifestation  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  in  1820,  not  as  acute, 
not  as  capable  of  comprehending  as 
the  mind  of  man  is  today  ?  We  have 
it  on  the  testimony  of  the  greatest 
scientists,  that  there  has  not  been 
any  appreciable  difference  between 
the  mind  of  man  today  and  the  mind 
of  man  four  thousand  years  ago. 


ELDER  CHARLES  IV.  NIBLEY 


77 


Alfred  Russell  Wallace,  and  other 
scientists,  so  declare,  and  they  de- 
clare further  that  the  mind  of  man 
is  just  as  much  depraved  today  as 
four  thousand  years  ago,  so  it  is  not 
that  the  mind  of  man  is  any  brighter 
to  grasp  these  things  today  than  the 
mind  was  formerly,  but  because  the 
Lord  Almighty  has  poured  out  his 
Spirit  upon  all  flesh  ki  all  nations, 
and  so  invention  after  invention 
goes  on. 

What  was  it  that  made  a  James 
Watt  s:t  there  by  his  mother's  fire 
in  Scotland,  and  notice  the  tea-ket- 
tle lid  move  up  and  down?  A 
thought,  an  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty fastened  it  in  his  mind. 
"There  is  power  there,"  he  said: 
"There  is  something  there  that 
makes  that  tea-kettle  lid  rise — the 
power  of  steam."  Why,  men  had 
sat  looking  at  tea-kettles  for  five 
thousand  years  or  more.  They  had 
not  thought  of  that  power  because 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  had 
not  touched  the  mind  to  make  them 
think  of  it.  That  is  why.  and  that 
is  the  only  reason  why.  "There  is  a 
spirit  in  man,"  says  the  Scripture, 
"and  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty 
sdveth  them  understanding,"  and  so 
he  is  pouring  out  his  Spirit  upon 
all  flesh  and  these  wonderful, 
marvelous  inventions  are  the  result. 
Here  we  see  in  this  building  these 
electric  lights.  Somewhere  in  the 
'canyon,  miles  away,  water  is  tumb- 
ling down  hill  over  a  wheel  and  here 
is  the  light.  Wonderful !  Marvelous  ! 
Why,  on  every  automobile  you  have 
a  complete  electric  light  plant.  Did 
you  ever  think  of  it?  It  is  all  so 
common'' with  us  now  that  it  almost 
ceases  to  be  a  wonder.  Rut  when  we 
stop  to  think,  we  see  how  wonder- 
ful it  all  is.  Think  of  the  engines 
of  destruction  that  have  been  in- 
vented and  manufactured  during  the 


present  world-war.  The  whole  face 
of  the  world  seems  changed  through 
the  knowlede  that  man  has  received 
from  the  Almighty.  The  Lord  is 
giving  this  information  and  glory  be 
to  him  and  not  to  man.  That  is 
where  the  world  makes  a  mistake, 
they  take  all  credit  to  themselves. 

For  about  six  thousand  years  men 
had  been  reaping  their  grain  with  a 
sickle.  Why  was  there  no  improve- 
ment during  all  that  time?  I  can 
remember  between  fifty  and  sixty 
years  ago  when  we  used  to  take  a 
sickle  and  reap  grain  and  lay  each 
little  bundle  down  as  it  was  reaped. 
I  can  remember  when  we  used  to 
flail  out  wheat  with  a  flail  or  tramp 
it  out  with  oxen  like  they  had  done 
in  the  time  of  Moses  when  he  de- 
livered the  law  that  thou  shalt  not 
muzzle  the  ox  that  treadeth  out  the 
corn.  There  had  been  practically 
no  change  in  all  these  matters  for 
about  six  thousand  years.  We  do 
not  sow  and  reap  in  that  manner 
now.  All  these  wonderful  inven- 
tions and  mechanical  improvements, 
practically  every  one,  have  been  re- 
vealed by  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty to  the  mind  of  men  since 
the  day  the  Lord  spoke  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  revealed 
himself  and  started  what  Brother 
Whitney  so  beautifully  referred  to 
yesterday  as  the  new  spiritual  forces 
which  should  revolutionize  the 
thought  of  the  world,  and  which 
have  in  them  the  means  of  salvation 
for  the  world,  for  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation.  It  is  not  in  man  that 
walks  to  guide  his  steps  aright.  The 
Lord  is  working  these  wonders  and 
overruling  in  it  all,  and  while  we 
know  that  he  is  working  in  the  na- 
tions and  give  him  all  honor  and 
credit  for  it,  we  still  know  absolutelv 
that  in  a  special  way  he  is  work- 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing  with  this  organization,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  in  which  alone  is  the 
f  orce  and  agency  and  power  that  will 
save  the  world  and  redeem  mankind, 
and  shall  persist  and  continue  for- 
ever. 

I  thought  yesterday,  as  Brother 
Whitney  was  talking,  of  some  lines 
of  Byron,  who,  lamenting  how  na- 
tions rise  and  nations  fall,  and  his- 
tory repeats  itself — just  a  repetition 
of  the  old  story — Byron  says  in 
these  lines : 

Here  is  the  moral  of  all  human  tales, 
'Tis  but  the  same  rehearsal  of  the  past. 
First  freedom,  and  then  glory;  when 

that  fails. 
Wealth,  vice,  corruption,  barbarism  at 

last. 

So  history,  with  all  its  volumes  vast, 
Hath  but  one  page. 

It  would  seem  it  is  just  the  same 
old  story  told  and  told,  but  I  thought 
to  myself,  poor  sceptical,  unbeliev- 
ing Byron.  Has  the  Lord  Almighty 
through  the  Prophet  Daniel  not  de- 
clared that  in  the  last  days — and 
these  are  the  last  clays  all  right,  and 
don't  you  forget  it — in  the  last  days, 
the  God  of  heaven  will  set  up  a 
kingdom  which  shall  stand  for- 
ever ;  it  should  never  fall ;  it  should 
never  be  given  to  another  people, 
but  it  should  endure  forever? 

This  is  the  Church  of  God.  This 
is  Christ's  Church ;  Joseph  Smith 
was  and  is  a  prophet  of  the  Most 
High  God.  The  leaders  of  this 
Church  have  been  inspired  and  are 
inspired  of  the  Almighty  to  give 
direction,  to  give  revelation,  to  give 
guidance  to  this  great  work,  none 
more  so  than  the  present  president 
of  the  Church  who  lives  and  has  al- 
ways lived  so  that  the  Lord, 
through  his  Spirit  can  manifest  un- 
to him,  give  direction  and  counsel 
and   guidance   to   the  Latter-day 


Saints,  and  it  will  not  fail,  it  will 
stand  forever.  God  grant  it, 
through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  number  of  notices  of  meetings 
were  given  out — among  them  a 
notice  of  a  special  priesthood  meet- 
ing in  the  Assembly  Hall  on  Mon- 
day, Oct.  7,  10  a.  m.,  and  of  the 
conference  of  the  Sunday  School 
Union,  this  evening  at  7  o'clock,  to 
which  all  are  invited. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

VOTE  ON  THE  PURCHASE  OF  LIBERTY 
BONDS. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  well 
aware  of  the  fact  that  the  Church 
has  appropriated,  on  account  of  lib- 
erty bonds,  a  sum  aggregating  more 
than  half  a  million  of  dollars.  I  feel 
to  propose  that  we  again  appropriate 
the  sum  of  $250,000  for  the  purchase 
of  bonds  of  the  Fourth  Liberty 
Loan.  The  motion  is  seconded.  I 
sincerely  regret  that  the  financial 
condition  of  the  Church — on 
account  of  the  great  demands  upon 
it  for  funds  for  the  support  of  our 
educational  institutions,  and  for  the 
accomplishment  of  our  building 
operations  that  are  in  hand — is  such 
that  we  cannot  offer  more  at  this 
time.  This  is  a  matter  that  is  be- 
yond the  immediate  reach  of  the 
council  of  the  Church,  appointed 
by  the  authority  of  God,  by  revela- 
tion, to  use  the  funds  of  the  Church, 
and  therefore  I  submit  it  to  this 
great  conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
All  who  are  in  favor  of  this  move 
will  please  signify  it  by  raising  the 
right  hand.  (Unanimous  response.) 
Contrary  minded,  if  there  are  any, 
by  the  same  sign.  (No  response.) 
I  see  no  contrary  votes. 


ELDER  DANIEL  HEINER. 


79 


The  choir  and  congregation  sang 
the  hymn :  "The  Spirit  of  God  like 
a  fire  is  burning." 

The  Conference  adjourned  until 
2  o'clock  p.  m. 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by- 
Elder  Charles  H.  Hart,  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy. 


OVERFLOW  MEETING. 

An  overflow  meeting  was  held  in 
the  Assembly  Hall,  Sunday  morn- 
ing, October  6,  at  10  o'clock  a.  m., 
presided  over  by  Elder  Stephen  L. 
Richards,  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles. 

Singing  and  music  were  fur- 
nished by  the  LeGrand  ward  choir, 
Elder  H.  E.  Dewsnup,  chorister. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang, 
''Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and 
dwell." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Elias  A.  Smith. 

The  choir  sang  the  anthem : 
"How  amiable  are  thy  dwellings." 

ELDER  DANIEL  HEINER. 

(President  of  the  Morgan  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

If  the  Lord  will  support  me,  I 
will  be  glad  to  say  a  few  words.  I 
have  been  very  much  impressed 
with  the  conference  up  to  this  time, 
with  the  "many  things  of  real  worth 
that  we  have  listened  to,  and  I 
have  felt  to  say  that  surely  the 
Lord  is  with  hi.s  people.  Never 
in  my  life  was  I  more  pleased  an  1 
thankful  for  a  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel than  I  am  at  this  time.  I  also 
feel  more  thankful,  it  seems  to  me, 
for  our  valleys  of  these  mountains, 
and  for  our  beautiful  homes,  for 


our  beautiful  streams  and  for  these 
beautiful  mountains.  I  truly  feel 
that  this  is  a  blessed  spot,  most 
blessed  of  all  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth.  I  often  think  about  the  ad- 
vice that  was  given  to  our  leaders 
in  early  .days  that  they  ought  to  go 
to  the  Lower  California  to  locate.  I 
visited  Lower  California  a  couple 
of  years  ago,  all  the  way  up  as  far 
as  Berkley.  I  spenr  a  month  up 
there,  and  I  thought  of  what  had 
been  said,  that  we  ought  to  locate 
up  there.  But  while  they  have  a 
beautiful  valley,  especially  around 
Los  Angeles,  with  their  beautiful 
groves  of  oranges,  etc.,  yet  it  took 
millions  of  money  to  get  the  water 
out  to  produce  what  they  have 
there.  I  want  to  say  that  we  Latter- 
da  v  Saints  ought  to  be  very  thank- 
ful for  what  the"  Lord  has  done 
for  us  in  locating  us  here. 

W e  are  surely  living  in  a  wonder- 
ful time.  It  seems  that  great 
things  are  transpiring  nearly  every 
minute ;  and  if  there  ever  has  been 
'a.  time  when  the  Latter-day  Saints 
ought  to  be  true  and  faithful  to 
their  covenants  it  is  now.  I  have 
often  wondered  if  we  are  thankful 
enough  for  our  country  here  and 
for  the  land  of  America.  You  know, 
we  are  a  blessed  people  to  have  the 
(privilege  to  live  in  this  land  of 
America.  One  of  the  Nephite. 
Prophets,  2,400  years  ago,  stated : 
"Blessed  are  the  people  whose  feet 
are  planted  in  the  land  of  Zion." 
As  I  have  said,  I  wonder  sometimes 
if  we  appreciate  it  as  we  ought  to 
do.  I  often  times  wish  that  the 
rulers  of  our  own  Nation  and  even 
other  nations  would  read  the  Book 
of  Mormon,  and  study  its  contents. 
Frequently  I  have  thought  they 
would  figure  things  out  in  a  differ- 
ent way  if  they  did.  I  feel  that  we 
ought  to  stand  by  this  great  Nation, 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  I  feel  that  the  whole  people  of 
the  United  States  ought  to  really 
repent  and  turn  from  immorality, 
and  live  better  lives.  I  have  some- 
times thought,  I  would  like  to  hear 
of  the  President  of  the  United 
States  making  a  proclamation,  ask- 
ing the  people  to  repent  and  turn  to 
God.  I  have  thought  that  if  that 
could  be  done,  and  the  people  would 
listen,  that  the  peace  of  the  millen- 
nium would  be  much  nearer. 

Our  boys  now  over  in  France  are 
very  anxious  for  us  to  live  righteous 
lives.  They  are  not  only  expect- 
ing us  to  put  up  our  money  in  buy- 
ing liberty  bonds,  but  they  expect 
us  to  keep  our  covenants.  They 
are  anxious  for  us  to  keep  the  home 
fires  burning,  and  if  Ave  can  assure 
them  that  we  are  true  to  our  cov- 
enants, and  that  we  are  waking  up 
and  understanding  the  real  condi- 
tion that  the  world  is  in  at  the  pres- 
ent time,  and  that  we  are  living  up 
to  the  requirements  of  the  gospel, 
it  will  help  to  keep  up  their  morale, 
and  they  will  surely  feel  like  thev 
had  more  to  fight  for  and  to  come 
back  to. 

I  would  just  like  to  leave  a 
thought  with  you,  and  that  is  for 
us  to  attend  to  our  prayers,  to 
attend  to  our  sacrament  meetings, 
and  to  wake  up,  and  not  be  so  in- 
different, remember  the  Lord  and 
be  true  to  our  covenants.  I  ask 
the  Lord  to  bless  us  and  help  us 
to  live  aright,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Chrst.  Amen. 

ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 

(President  of  Mexican  Mission.) 

T  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  few  moments  I 
occupy  this  morning  I  mav  be  assis- 
ted by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and 
I  therefore  ask  an  interest  in  your 


faith  and  prayers,  that  his  Spirit 
may  be  with  me  and  with  you,  and 
that  we  may  be  mutually  benefited 
by  what  I  may  say. 

I  am  grateful  to  my  heavenly 
Father  for  the  privilege  I  have  had 
to  come  up  to  this  conference ;  and 
we,  I  think,  as  a  people,  should  be 
grateful  to  him  for  the  blessings  we 
have  already  received  in  this  confer- 
ence.I  acknowledge  the  hand  of  the 
Lord,  and  I  believe  firmly  that  the 
sincere  prayers  of  the  Saints  in  be- 
half of  our  beloved  President  have 
been  answered  in  Irs  behalf,  and  the 
Lord  has  permitted  him,  after  a 
long  illness,  to  stand  again  before 
the  people  and  give  them  counsel 
and  advice. 

A  reference  has  been  made  by  the 
brethren  who  have-  spoken  in  the 
sessions  held  in  the  tabernacle  to  the 
missionary  work,  and  the  miss:on- 
ary  obligation  that  rests  upon  the 
people  of  he  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints.  This  gospel 
of  the  kingdom  must  by  us  be 
preached  to  every  nation,  kindred 
and  tongue.  We  have  heard  it  de- 
clared in  unmistakable  terms  that 
the  gospel  as  it  stands  revealed  in 
the  earth  today  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  the  Church  as 
organized  through  h:s  instrumental- 
ity, are  the  very  gospel  and  the 
very  Church  of  our  Lord  and  Sav- 
ior Jesus  Christ.  We  recognize 
good  wherever  we  find  it,  but  we 
declare  with  boldness  that  the  power 
to  preach  the  gospel  and  to  officiate 
in  all  of  the  ordinances  thereof 
exists  only  with  the  Church  of 
T^sns  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Now  that  being  the  case,  it  seems 
that  we  should  sense  the  res^onsi- 
Irlity  that  rests  upon  us  to  carry  the 
gospel  -message  to  the  untold  mil- 
lions of  the  Lord's  children  who  yet 
sit  in  darkness  among  the  nations  of 


ELDER  REY  L.  PRATT. 


81 


the  earth.  "God  moves  in  a  mysteri- 
ous way  his  wonders  to  perform," 
and  who  knows  but  what  the  mighty 
conflict  being'  waged  in  the  world 
today  is  the  Lord's  way  of  prepar- 
ing for  the  further  spread  of  the  gos- 
pel even  among  peoples  who  up  to 
date  have  not  been  able  to  hear  it, 
in  nations  where  the  elders  of  the 
Church  have  been  debarred  from 
carrying  the  gospel  message  of 
peace  and  salvation? 

Brethren  and  sisters,  a  thing  that 
it  seems  to  me  we  should  realize 
and  sense  is  the  fact  that  our  Father 
in  heaven. is  just  as  much  the  Father 
of  the  heathen  races,  of  the  benight- 
ed tribes  and  races  of  the  earth,  and 
of  all  people  upon  the  earth,  as  he 
is  our  Father.  I  call  your  attention 
to  the  writings  of  Paul  to  Timothy. 
"I  exhort,  therefore,  that  first  of  all 
supplications,  prayers  and  giving  of 
thanks  be  made  for  all  men,  for  this 
is  good  and  acceptable  in  the  sight 
of  God,  our  Savior,  who  will  have 
all  men  to  be  saved,  and  come  into 
the  knowledge  of  the  truth."  We 
see  therein  that  the  Lord  does  not 
design  and  desire  only  one  portion 
or  part  of  his  people,  or  one  nation 
of  his  children  to  be  saved  and  come 
to  the  knowledge  of  the  truth  ;  but 
lie  wishes  all  to  be  saved.  We  are 
prone  to  think,  just  as  the  Jews  ol 
old  thought,  that  we  are  the  only 
favored  people  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord.  And 
the  Jews  were  a  favored  race.  And 
so  today  the  blood  of  Israel  as 
fathered  out  among  the  peoples  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  highly 
favored  of  the  Lord.  But  I  want 
to  bear  you  my  testimony  that,  just 
as  the  Tews  fell  into  disfavor  when 
they  disobeyed  the  one  God  whom 
they  worshiped,  so  might  we,  if  we 
should  turn  our  backs  upon  the 
Holv  One  of  Israel,  and  if  we  re- 


ject the  teachings  of  his  gospel  and 
cease  to  live  by  the  things  that  he 
has  given  unto  men.  A  lesson  was 
given  to  Pecer,  the  chief  of  the  apos- 
tles, in  times  of  old  in  the  conversion 
of  Cornelius,  a  Gentile,  and  after 
Peter  had  witnessed  the  manifesta- 
tions of  the  Holy  Spirit  as  poured 
out  upon  this  man  and  his  family, 
"then  Peter  opened  his  mouth  and 
said,  of  a  truth  I  perceive  that  God 
is  no  respecter  of  persons,  but  in 
every  nation  he  that  feareth  him  and 
worketh  righteousness  is  accepted  of 
him."  Now  this  is  just  as  true  today 
as  it  was  then.  And  this  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  is  being  preached  in  all 
the  earth,  among  all  people  and 
among  all  men,  to  search  out  those 
who  will  accept  it  and  who  will  live 
according  to  his  commandments. 
And  I  want  to  tell  you  that  it  makes 
no  difference  what  blood  flows  in 
our  veins,  only  those  who  accept  the 
Lord  and  live  humbly  before  him, 
in  harmony  with  him  and  his  com- 
mandments, will  be  favored  of  the 
Lord  and  accepted  of  him  and  be 
saved  in  his  kingdom.  Nationally, 
at  least,  we  are  learning  the  same 
great  lesson.  There  was  a  time 
when  the  people  of  this  great 
country  of  ours  were  termed  Irish- 
Americans  and  many  other  kinds  of 
hyphenated  Americans.  Down  in 
the  section  of  the  country  where  I 
am  do:ng  missionary  work  the  poli- 
ticians always  count  upon  the  Mexi- 
can vote,  for  I  will  say  in  passing 
that  we  have  hundreds  and  thous- 
ands of  Mexicans,  or  .oeople  of 
Mexican  blood,  in  the  United  States, 
who  are  native-born  American  citi- 
zens. But  this  great  world  conflict 
will  eradicate  that  spirit  that  is  pre- 
dominant in  certain  sections  of  the 
country. 

T  want  to  believe,  and  do,  that 
when  this  war  is  over  we  will  all 


82. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  in  a  political  sense  just  as  the 
Nephites  and  Lamanites  were  in  a 
religious  sense  after  the  advent  of 
the  Savior  among  them.  Where 
before  there  had  been  jarring  sects 
and  parties  known  as  Nephites  and 
Lamanites,  Zoramites  and  other 
"ites,"  after  the  Savior  had  come 
and  taught  them  the  gospel  of  truth, 
and  after  they  had  been  chastened 
by  the  terrible  judgments  of  God 
upon  them,  those  who  escaped  turn- 
ed from  their  wickedness  and  from 
their  evil  contentions  and  became  a 
united  people,  and  they  were  no 
longer  known  as  Nephites  or  La- 
manites but  were  all  known  as  the 
Church  of  Christ.  And  so,  I  believe 
that  in  this  country  of  ours  after 
the  war  is  over  all  who  live  here 
will  be  true  Americans,  and  there 
will  be  no  German- Americans, 
Irish-Americans,  Mexicans,  or  the 
like,  but  we  will  all  be  known  as  full 
fledged  American  citizens. 

I  had  the  opportunity  a  short  time 
ago  of  speaking  at  the  service  held 
;n  honor  of  the  first  boy  that  fell 
from  the  countv  where  I  now  live. 
LTpon  the  stand  sat  his  aged  father, 
eleven  years  a  cripple  from  rheuma- 
tism. He  was  of  Scandinavian 
origin  and  could  scarcely  speak  the 
English  langauge,  but  that  bov  of 
his  in  the  spirit  of  true  American- 
ism volunteered  with  the  first  that 
served  their  country  and  he  gave 
his  life  in  defense  of  the  spirit  of 
Americanism.  Can  we  say  he  was 
less  an  American  because  of  his 
Scan d:n avian  blood?  T  can  in- 
deed say  that  he  was  a  true  Ameri- 
can. At  the  close  of  the  meeting, 
word  came  in  that  another  young 
man,  who  a  few  months  before  hai 
left  a  bride  of  eight  months  and 
his  aged  parents,  had  also  been 
killed.  That  boy  was  a  Mexican 
from  just  below  where  I  live,  yet 


no  man  will  be  able  to  say  that  he 
was  not  a  true  American,  and  no 
father  or  mother  can  offer  a  great- 
er sacrifice  for  freedom  than  did 
his.  And  can  any  wife  be  more 
faithful  to  her  country  than  that 
one  who  sent  her  husband  away 
to  defend  that  country?  So  we 
see  that  in  our  country's  hour  of 
need  men  of  different  bloods  faith- 
fully spring  side  by  side  to  her  de- 
fence and  by  their  lives  and  deeds 
they  make  themselves  true  Ameri- 
cans. 

So  also  it  is  in  the  Church. 
Deeds,  and  not  blood,  determine 
our  right  to  be  called  Saints  of 
God.  Away  down  there  in  Mexico 
our  native  Mexican  brethren  and 
sisters,  although  for  four  years  left 
alone,  ^continue  to  meet  together 
and  praise,  the  Lord  and  testify  of 
his  goodness  and  that  the  gospel  is 
true.  They  are  living  their  religion 
and  keeping  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord  as  they  understand  them. 
Are  they  any  less  worthy  to  be 
called  the  Saints  of  God  because 
of  their  blood?  I  recall  a  man  down 
in  Mexico  who  was  drafted  into 
the  army  and  forced  to  leave 
everything  he  had  and  to  leave  h:s 
family  destitute.  After  having 
been  away  about  a  vear,  during 
which  time  he  received  a  daily 
pittance  of  twenty-five  cents  from 
which  he  had  to  feed  and  clothe 
himself,  he  wrote  to  me  and  asked 
"Where  shall  I  send  my  tithing?" 
On  learning  where  to  send  it  he 
sent  a  tithing  of  the  pittance  he  had 
received  while  in  the  army.  Is 
his  offering  less  acceptable,  or  is 
he  less  a  member  of  the  Church, 
or  less  worthy  of  receiving  an  in- 
heritance in  the  kingdom  of  God 
because  of  his  blood?  I  want  to 
tell  you  that  such  is  not  the  case. 
God  is   no   respecter   of  persons, 


ELDER  REV  L.  PRATT. 


83 


then  why  should  we  be?  But  this 
thing  he  does  require  of  Jew  and 
Gentile,  and  of  every  nation  what- 
soever, and  it  is  due  from  all  those 
who  may  be  found  among  all  na- 
t:ons,  that  they  live  the  gospel  and 
live  according  to  its  requirements, 
and  when  the  Savior  comes  there 
will  be  a  universal  brotherhood  of 
man  and  we  shall  not  look  down 
upon  a  man  because  of  his  blood 
or  his  station,  but  he  shall  be  meas- 
ured according  to  his  worth. 

I  wish  to  testify,  in  conclusion, 
that  I  know  that  the  gospel  is  true. 
I  know  that  it  has  been  establish- 
ed upon  the  earth  for  the  salvation 
of  all  men,  and  I  know  that  your 
sons  who  are  in  the  mission  field 
bearing  their  humble  testimony  and 
teaching  this  gospel  are  just  as 
loyal  to  their  country  as  are  your 
sons  who  are  in  the  army,  and 
those  sons  of  yours  out  there  are 
not  in  any  way  hiding  behind  their 
ecclesiastical  calling  to  avoid  a  duty 
?n  the  armies  of  their  country.  They 
have  received  a  classification  and 
have  been  assigned  a  .special  work 
by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  which  recognizes  the  neces- 
sity of  doing  just  the  work  that 
they  are  doing,  and  when  the 
United  States  needs  them  and  wish- 
es to  call  them  in  they  are  willing 
to  serve  their  country  in  freedom's 
cause  wherever  they  may  be  called. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  our  en- 
deavors to  serve  humanity  I  ask 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  PETER  M.  HANSEN. 

(President  Bear  River  Stake  of  Zion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters;  It  is  a 
pleasure  to  me  to  meet  with  you 
this  beautiful  morning  in  continua- 
tion of  our  splendid  eighty-ninth 
semi-annual     conference     of  the 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints ;  and  to  hear  the  excel- 
lent testimonies  we  have  received. 
It  is  an  evidence  to  us  that  we  are 
indeed  the  Church  of  Christ,  and  a 
joy  that  we  have  the  privilege  of 
living  in  the  dispensation  of  the  ful- 
ness of  times,  led  by  prophets  and 
inspired  men  who  have  been  chosen 
of  the  Lord  to  guide  and  direct  his 
people. 

We  have  been  interested  in  the 
discourses  that  have  been  delivered 
which  are  testimonies  to  us  that  the 
great  latter-day  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged,  is  of  God. 

What  we  need  in  this  Church  to- 
day, my  brethren  and  sisters,  are 
teachers,  to  teach  the  word  of  God 
to  our  young  people,  men  and  wom- 
en who  are  qualified  for  this  duty, 
and  I  hope  that  we  will  not  shirk 
the  responsibility  that  rests  upon  us. 
We  cannot  dodge  the  responsibility 
that  is  required  of  us  in  this  beau- 
tiful world  in  which  we  live.  If  we 
do,  T  think  we  will  not  live  in  a 
better  world.  But  there  are  certain 
responsibilities  that  are  resting  upon 
every  man  and  woman  in  Zion.  One 
obligation  is  to  teach  the  gospel  to 
the  young  people  in  the  splendid 
organizations  that  we  have  in  this 
Church  today.  We  call,  perhaps,  a 
number  of  sisters  to  preside  in  the 
Primary  organizations  in  the  wards 
and  stakes  where  we  live,  and  we 
send  our  children,  but  we  never  go 
there  ourselves,  we  never  meet  with 
those  s:sters  in  teaching  our  chil- 
dren. Now  if  we  would  make  it  a 
point  to  meet  in  this  organization 
once  every  year,  what  a  splendid 
thing  it  would  be  for  us,  and  what 
a  splendid  thing  it  woidd  be  for  our 
children,  what  interest  they  would 
have  in  us  and  the  work  in  which 
we  are  engaged  !  So  in  the  Mutual 
Improvements  Associations,  we  ap- 


S4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


■point  a  certain  number  of  men  and 
women  to  preside  in  these  organi- 
zations, but  we  never  go  there  our- 
selves. We  never  show  much  inter- 
est in  them.  We  leave  the  work  to 
these  officers  that  we  have  appoint- 
ed. Now,  if  every  man  and  woman 
would  make  it  a  point  to  visit  these 
organizations  once  a  year,  what  an 
excellent  thing  it  would  be  for  us 
and  our  interest  in  these  organiza- 
tions. How  the  young  people  would 
rejoice  to  see  our  presence  with 
them  once  in  a  while.  The  same 
with  our  priesthood  quorums.  Men 
shirk  responsibilities  more  or  less. 
We  should  not  shirk  responsibili- 
ties ;  we  should  not  dodge  these 
things,  because  it  is  detrimental  to 
us  as  well  as  to  the  Church  at  large 
to  do  so. 

The  greatness  of  the  work  and 
responsibilities  that  rest  upon  us, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  we  can- 
hardly  comprehend.  Our  brother 
has  said  it  is  our  responsibility  to 
preach  the  gospel  to  the  world.  Half 
of  the  people  of  the  world  today  are 
starving  for  a  little  love  and  sym- 
pathy that  should  be  extended  to 
them,  and  the  other  half  of  ail  the 
world  today  are  starving  because 
they  are  not  willing  to  give  it.  That 
is  the  condition  the  world  is  in ;  arid 
I  hope  that  we  as  Latter-day  Saints 
may  not  be  starving  for  the  want  of 
these  things,  that  our  young  people 
may  be  more  diligent  in  serving  the 
Lord  and  striving  to  keep  his  com- 
mandments. 

I  have  a  son  in  South  Africa,  who 
has  been  in  that  field  laboring  now 
for  nearly  three  years.  A  short 
time  ago  he  was  sent  to  a  new  field 
of  labor,  where  elders  had  not  been 
before,  a  stranger,  a  poor,  insig- 
nificant boy,  as  it  were,  yet  an  elder 
of  the  Church  going  there  in  the 
service  of  the  Lord  and  with  the 


blessings  of  the.  servants  of  God 
upon  his  head.  He  labored  there 
for  ,six  months.  Lately  I  received 
word  from  him  that  he  had  been 
called  into  another  field  to  labor. 
He  says,  "I  have  baptized  two  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  I  have  blessed 
two  children  ;  and  we  had  a  meet- 
ing a  short  time  ago,  where  I  made 
my  farewell  address.  The  people 
of  the  little  meeting  we  had  of  ten 
or  twenty  shed  tears  to  know  that 
I  was  to  leave  that  little  community 
and  go  into  another."  He  went 
there  as  a  strange  boy,  yet  he  made 
converts,  had  the  love  and  confi- 
dence of  the  people,  which  love  we 
have  inasmuch  as  we  strive  for  it, 
inasmuch  as  we  seek  to  do  the  will 
of  God  and  to  keep  his  command- 
ments. 

I  was  very  much  intereste  l  la  .t 
evening'  in  Brother  Nibley's  address 
delivered  before  the  priesthood, 
wherein  he  stated  that  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  blessed  with  boun- 
teous crops  this  season,  more  so 
than  he  could  ever  remember  be- 
fore. Now  I  bear  that  same  testi- 
mony, my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
our  people  are  blessed  this  season 
as  perhaps  we  have  never  been 
blessed  before.  I  hope  that  we  will 
not  forget  the  Lord.  Elder  Hyrum 
M.  Smith,  in  one  of  the  last  dis- 
courses that  he  delivered,  I  think, 
in  one  of  the  Idaho  stakes  of  Zion, 
said  that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints 
will  be  a  prayerful  people,  if  they 
will  be  diligent  in  saying  their  pray- 
ers morning  and  night,  if  they  will 
be  diligent  in  attending  their  sacra- 
ment meeting's  every  Sunday  or  as 
often  as  they  can,  if  they  will  pay 
an  honest  tithing,  doing  those  du- 
ties, they  will  never  apostatize  from 
the  Church.  I  believe  that,  and  it  is 
possible  for  us  all  to  do.  It  is  pos- 
sible for  the  little  children  even  to 


ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REUS. 


85 


meet  together  often  and  to  partake 
of  the  sacrament,  to  pay  an  honest 
tithing,  to  say  their  prayers  morn- 
ing and  night,  and  in  secret.  It  is 
possible  and  it  would  not  be  diffi- 
cult; if  we  would  do  that,  what  a 
reformation  would  come  in  the 
Church.    Let  us  be  more  diligent. 

In  the  stake  in  which  I  reside, 
we  have  over  a  thousand  people  who 
are  non-"  Mormons."  a  splendid 
class  of  people.  We  visit  with 
them,  we  associate  with  them, 
and  it  is  a  pleasure  for  us  to  do 
so,  because  they  are  good  neigh- 
bors, they  are  good  citizens,  they 
are  good  home-builders,  and  we  ap- 
preciate their  company.  We  do  not 
quarrel  with  them  ;  we  let  them  wor- 
ship as  they  will,  and  they  do.  We 
say,  do  not  embrace  "Mormonism" 
until  you  investigate  for  yourself, 
test  its  principles,  and  if  you  find 
them  worth  while,  if  we  can  assist 
you,  if  we  can  help  you  in  explain- 
ing the  principles  of  the  gospel,  we 
shall  cheerfully  do  so.  The  conse- 
quence is  that  we  have  a  satisfaction 
in  living  among  them,  and  I  trust 
that  they  have  with  us.  I  wish  that 
we  may  be  exemplar)-  men  and 
women.  That  preaches  the  gospel 
more  than  anything  else  that  we  do 
in  the  Church.  How  effectively  it 
preaches  the  gospel  to  those  who 
are  not  of  us.  if  we  can  be  exem- 
plary men  and  women  ! 

I  reioice  in  the.  spirit  of  the  gos- 
pel. I  rejoice  that  we  are  here  in 
conference,  and  that  we  have  the 
privilege  to  listen  to  the  servants 
of  God.  Another  thing,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  this  is  a  splend'd 
year  to  pay  our  debts  and  obliga- 
tions. 

A  dollar  now,  you  know,  is  not 
worth  more  than  about  50  cents  in 
the  commodities  of  life,  but  it  is 
worth  one  hundred  cents  on  ^the 


dollar  in  paying  our  debts  and  obli- 
gations ;  and  for  that  reason,  this  is 
a  splendid  year  to  meet  our  obliga- 
tions. 

I  am  a  little  interested  in  the 
banks  of  the  state  where  I  live,  and 
men  will  come  to  the  banks,  and 
beg  for  money  at  eight  or  nine  per 
cent.  Now  that  should  not  be  the 
case.  Let  us  pay  our  obligations  as 
we  can,  while  we  have  the  splendid 
opportunity  now  afforded  us. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters.  May  peace  and  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Lord  attend  us,  and  may 
we  be  worthy  of  every  blessing  that 
we  enjoy,  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask 
it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Sister  Amelia  Margetts  sang  a 
solo,    "Song  of  my  soul." 

ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REES. 

(President  of  the  Juab  Stake  of  Zion.  ) 

I  assure  you  that  it  is  not  my  wish 
that  I  occupy  this  position  this 
morning.  I  would  far  rather  be 
seated  wtih  you  in  the  audience,  and 
listen  to  the  instructions  from  my 
brethren.  When  I  was  called  to 
occupy  this  position  the  thought 
never  entered  my  mind  of  not  beuig 
present,  even  though  I  feared  I 
might  not  be  able  to  instruct  you  in 
our  most  holy  faith.  I  have  been 
taught  in  this  Church  that  obedience 
is  one  of  its  great  principles — -that 
they  who  obey  it  never  fall  away 
from  the  teachings  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  been  taught  to  obey  the 
laws  of  our  great  Government,  the 
authorities  of  this  Church,  and  my 
father  and  my  mother  giving-  to 
them  the  obedience  of  a  ,son.  This 
lesson  came  to  me  in  early  life.  I 
remember  on  one  occasion  my 
father  invited  me  to  accompany  him 
to  an  adjoining  valley.    There  were 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


others  in  the  company,  and  we  trav- 
eled through  the  canyon  from  one 
valley  to  the  other,  changing  our 
directions  often,  and  as  we  emerged 
into  the  valley  that  was  strange  to 
me,  I  beheld,  to  my  astonishment, 
that  the  sun  was  going  down  in  the 
east.  But  all  day  long  I  had  been 
curious  in  asking  questions,  and  I 
thought  I  would  remain  silent  and 
watch  for  the  morning.  And  when 
the  morning  came,  behold  the  sun 
was  coming  up  in  the  west,  and  I 
turned  to  one  of  my  brethren  and 
said,  "What  a  peculiar  place,  the 
sun  is  coming  up  in  the  west!"  Jok- 
ingly he  said,  "Another  one  of  your 
wonderful  questions."  One  of  the 
boys  from  another  place  stated,  why 
you  are  twisted.  My  father  came  to 
my  rescue,  saying,  "No ;  the  sun  is 
rising  in  the  east  all  right,"  and  I 
looked  at  him.  I  could  see.  I  had 
eyes.  I  knew  directions,  and  the 
sun  was  coming  up  in  the  west,  even 
if  my  father  told  me  that  it  was  not 
so,  and  he  could  not  convince  me ; 
yet  I  obeyed.  Have  you  ever  been 
turned  round,  and  some  one  has 
tried  to  change  you  as  to  the  right 
direction  by  conversation  ?  You  will 
realize  my  situation.  And  when  we 
started  out  with  the  wagon,  he  gave 
me  the  lines.  I  was  a  youngster  of 
seven  and  eager  to  drive.  As  we 
came  to  the  parting  of  the  roads,  I 
knew  that  we  were  to  go  south,  and 
I  turned  the  team  south,  as  I 
thought.  My  father  said,  turn  left, 
and  lo  and  behold,  when  I  turned 
left  the  team  was  facing  the  north. 
Now,  he  said,  drive  south,  and  I 
started.  Driving  north  I  knew  I 
could  see  the  sun  coming  up  in  the 
west,  and  the  directions — why,  I 
was  positive  that  I  was  going  north, 
and  that  my  father  was  wrong.  He 
talked  to  me.  He  said,  "Yes,  you 
are  going  south.    Keep  on  going 


south,  and  I  knew  I  was  going 
north.  And  I  kept  on  going  north, 
but  the  thought  of  disobeying  my 
father  never  entered  my  mind.  I 
thought  he  was  wrong,  but  I  obey- 
ed, and  drove  on.  Finally  we  came 
to  our  destination  all  right. 

In  my  work  as  a  boy,  and  as  I  _ 
grew  older,  I  met  many  people  who 
would  come  to  me  and  ,say,  "The 
Church  is  not  the  same  as  it  was  in 
the  .days  of  the  Prophet.  It  is  not 
the  same  as  it  was  in  the  days  of 
Brigham  Young."  I  thought  in  my 
heart,  your  point  of  direction  is  lost, 
even  if  you  think  absolutely  that  you 
are  right ;  if  you  will  obey,  the  rime 
will  come,  as  it  came  to  me  in  that 
valley,  when  things  will  adjust 
themselves,  even  as  I  could  see  that 
my  father  was  right  and  I  was 
wrong.  So,  when  I  see  some  of . 
those  who  were  brethren  stray  away 
from  the  Church,  and  are  positive 
that  they  are  right,  I  think  of  the 
lesson  I  learned  when  I  was  a  boy. 
Within  themselves  they  seem  to  feel 
that  they  are  right,  but  if  they  had 
the  power  to  obey  they  would  again 
adjust  themselves. 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  owe  it  to 
the  principle  of  obedience,  to  teach 
it  to  our  boys  and  our  girls,  telling 
them  that  this  Church  is  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God,  given  to  us 
through  his  prophets.  We  are  not 
afraid  to  state  to  all  the  world  that 
this  is  the  true  Church  that  we  be- 
long to,  and  the  people  should  not 
take  offense  at  that,  nor  claim  that 
when  we  do  it  we  are  egotistic,  be- 
cause Christ  tells  us  unequivocally 
that  there  is  but  one  Church  that  is 
or  can  be  his  on  the  earth.  As  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  we  are  just  following 
his  admonition,  and  stating  boldly 
to  the  world  that  we  possess  that 
truth.  It  is  possible  for  all  the 
churches  to  be  wrong,  but  it  is  not 


ELDER  THOMAS  D.  REES. 


87 


possible  for  more  than  one  to  be 
right.  And  therefore  we  feel  that 
we  have  the  right  to  testify  to  the 
world  of  these  truths.  That  is  the 
reason  we  cherish  the  salvation  of 
men  so  greatly,  considering  it  a 
privilege  to  live  on  this  earth,  ac- 
counting the  human  being  the  great- 
est gift.  We  have  given  our  boys 
and  girls  the  greatest  riches  God  has 
ever  given  us,  because  they  will 
stand  with  us  in  the  eternities  as 
our  wealth,  to  hold  up  our  hands. 
They  are  the  riches  God  intended 
we  should  have  when  he  sent  us  to 
this  earth  to  live  and  enjoy  the  gos- 
pel. O  what  a  beautiful  thing  is 
virtue  to  every  boy  and  girl  in  this 
Church !  How  grand  it  is  that  we 
can  give  to  them  that  wonderful, 
progressive  spirit  that  God  has 
given  us,  a  knowledge  that  we  can 
go  back  to  our  Eternal  Father. 

The  I  AM  within  us  teaches  us 
that  we  existed  before  we  came 
here,  that  we  exist  now,  and  it 
seems  impossible  with  the  feeling 
that  we  have  within  us  to  ever  cease 
to  exist.  Then  we  should  teach  our 
boys  and  girls  the  lessons  of  obe- 
dience, virtue,  honesty  and  truth, 
that  they  may  walk  before  their 
heavenly  Father  as  he  would  have 
them  walk,  and  before  their  fellow 
men,  in  dignity,  and  in  the  power 
of  the  holy  priesthood.  We  are 
claiming  the  greatest  blessing  that 
can  be  given  to  the  children  of  men 
— these  boys  and  girls — for  they 
will  be  with  us  throughout  all  eter- 
nity. In  the  eternities  they  can  be 
perfected  with  us.  Think  of  the 
possibilities,  what  they  mean  to  us, 
the  little  children  whom  God  gives 
to  our  arms  to  teach.  Think  of  the 
minds  of  these  children  and  the 
power  inherent  in  them  to  be  crea- 
tors in  the  hereafter !  Do  they  not 
mean  more  to  our  lives  than  our 


lands  and  our  chattels?  For  our 
children  will  have  the  power  of 
eternal  progression,  until  out  of 
their  hands  will  roll  systems  of 
worlds,  with  all  the  wealth  neces- 
sary to  the:r  creation.  Far  greater 
are  these  blessings  to  us  than  the 
things  of  this  life.  When  we  meas- 
ure them,  how  we  cherish  this  priv- 
ilege of  coming  upon  this  earth  and 
taking  upon  us  this  tabernacle  of 
flesh  that  we  might  be  able  to  go 
onward  in  this  great  progress  of 
eternity ! 

I  have  always  said,  teach  the  boy 
to  kneel  down  and  pray  unto  his 
heavenly  Father,  because  it  takes  a 
strong  character  to  kneel  down  in 
prayer.  It  takes  a  character  whose 
soul  will  enlarge  so  that  he  forgets 
the  little  things  of  life,  and  becomes 
mighty  in  himself,  when  reaching 
up  in  the  spirit  of  a  good  prayer. 

Hence,  each  father  and  mother 
should  teach  their  boys  and  girls  to 
kneel  down  in  prayer  before  God, 
that  they  may  be  exalted  in  them- 
selves. It  requires  obedience,  and 
a  power  of  character  to  kneel  down 
each  day  in  prayer.  It  builds  us  up 
so  that  we  are  more  like  God  intend- 
ed we  should  be  when  he  sent  us 
here  to  this  earth.  It  builds  us  up 
so  that  we  can  look  upon  our  fellow 
men  as  our  brethren,  and  look  out 
upon  all  God's  creatures  giving 
them  a  sympathetic  hand,  enabling 
us  to  feel  that  all  mankind  are  the 
children  of  God.  But  we  despise 
sin.  We  love  the  human  race  and 
the  children  of  God,  but  the  sins 
that  men  commit  we  despise.  It  is 
our  mission  upon  this  earth  to  seek 
to  do  away  with  ,sin,  and  teach  men 
that  the  greatest  joy  and  the  great- 
est happiness,  the  greatest  love,  can 
come  from  living  an  honest  life, 
from  living  this  religion  of  ours, 
where  jealousy  should  find  no  place, 


8S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


but  peace  of  mind  with  God,  and 
good  will  to  our  fellow  men. 

May  God  bless  and  help  us,  that 
we  may  be  of  service  to  him,  that 
we  may  have  time  to  turn  from  the 
things  of  earth  and  spend  more  time 
with  the  wealth  that  God  has  given 
us,  our  boys  and  our  girls ;  because, 
after  all,  they  will  go  with  us  and 
be  ours  when  we  leave  all  this 
world's  goods  behind.  This  is  my 
prayer  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 
and  for  the  people  of  this  earth. 
And  may  peace  come  to  this  earth, 
and  may  the  day  speedily  come 
when  we  will  live  as  our  Father  .de- 
sires we  shall  live,  is  my  prayer,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  B.  KEELER. 

(President  of  the  Utah  Stake  of  Zion.) 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  here,  because  of  the  words  that 
have  been  uttered  in  our  hearing 
and  the  thoughts  that  have  been 
going  through  our  minds.  Some  of 
them  have  been  passing  through  my 
mind,  and  likely  through  your 
minds,  and  to  a  great  extent  we  are 
one  in  the  Lord  this  day.  May  this 
Spirit  continue  to  be  with  us 
throughout  the  sessions  of  this  con- 
ference, as  it  has  been  through  the 
sessions  that  have  preceded  this. 

A  great  deal  has  been  said,  and 
will  be  said,  regarding  the  patriot- 
ism and  the  loyalty  that  has  been 
manifested  toward  our  Government 
and  the  cause  of  the  allies  in  which 
we  are  now  engaged  to  bring  about 
freedom  and  justice  in  the  world. 
We  have  another  loyalty  and  patri- 
otism that  we  should  never  forget, 
and  that  is  to  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  to  which  we  belong.  Peace 
would  be  in  the  earth  today  if  all  the 


inhabitants  thereof  were  members 
in  full  fellowship  in  Christ's  Church. 
There  would  be  no  war,  there  would 
be  no  trouble,  no  famine,  no  pestil- 
ence, if  there  were  a  brotherhood  of 
man,  if  we  could  say  truly  that  we 
are  citizens  of  this  world. 

I  said  to  a  German  brother  the 
other  day,  it  is  impossible  for  us  to 
be  at  war.  It  is  impossible  for  us 
to  hate  each  other.  We  cannot  do 
it,  and  why  ?  Because  we  are  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Christ.  And 
so  the  millennium  would  be  here  to- 
day if  men  and  women  were  obe- 
dient to  the  principles  of  the  ever- 
lasting gospel.  Now  this  thing  that 
is  so  much  desired,  peace  and  good 
will  in  the  earth  will  come  to  the 
extent  that  men  will  forsake  un- 
righteousness and  cling  unto  that 
which  is  good.  This  Church  is  so 
organized  that  these  principles  of 
love,  of  intelligence,  may  be  dis- 
seminated throughout  the  earth. 
And  how  thankful  we  should  be, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  are 
members  of  the  Church  of  Christ, 
the  only  true  Church  that  God  rec- 
ognizes upon  the  face  of  this  earth. 

We  have  institutions  in  the 
Church  that  are  intended  for  our 
development  and  our  education. 
Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards  re- 
marked yesterday  that  we  are  all 
teachers,  that  is,  the  priesthood,  and 
we  can  well  include  in  that  class  the 
sisters  now,  to  the  extent  that  we 
will  be  patriotic  and  loyal  to  these 
institutions.  To  that  extent  will 
this  Church  grow  and  increase  in 
the  earth,  and  we  will  not  only  be- 
come teachers  of  one  another,  but 
Ave  will  become  teachers  of  the 
world.  But  I  apprehend  that  in 
preparing  ourselves  to  become 
teachers,  we  are  doing  as  much  or 
more  for  ouselves  individually  than 
we  are  to  others.    Really,  the  Lord 


ELDER  JOSEPH  B.  KEELER. 


89 


does  not  intend  men  and  women  to 
preach  this  gospel  more  than  men 
and  women  need  themselves  to  be 
obedient  to  this  call  to  be  teachers. 

Let  us  read  the  ninth  and  tenth 
chapters  of  TTI  Nephi,  and  there 
see  how  completely  Jehovah  preach- 
ed the  gospel  to  the  people  then 
upon  this  continent,  to  half  a  world, 
we  may  sav.  Every  soul,  whether 
he  was  in  the  open  field  or  in  the 
home,  or  in  the  fastnesses  of  the 
mountains,  heard  his  voice.  He 
preached  to  all  the  world  with  one 
voice,  and  all  the  world  at  that  time 
heard  his  voice.  T  mean  noAv,  of 
course,  the  earth.  That  was  then 
understood  by  that  people  to  whom 
he  preached.  We  need  the  Lord, 
we  need  the  institutions  of  his 
Church,  and  therefore  it  would  be 
well  for  us  to  sustain  everv  organi- 
zation. I  always  feel  to  bless  the 
sisters  who  so  faithfully  perform 
their  labor  in  the  Primary  organi- 
zations among  these  young  and 
budding  children.  Our  Father  in 
heaven  notices  them,  notwithstand- 
ing the  fact  that  we  sometimes  al- 
most forget  them  as  parents.  T  sav 
to  you,  my  sisters,  go  on  in  this 
good  work.  God  notices  you.  and 
will  bless  you.  So  with  the  Young 
Ladies'  Mutual  Improvement  Asso- 
ciations. What  a  wonderful  organ- 
ization for  good !  What  a  social 
function  it  performs  anion?  the 
Latter-dav  Saints.  So  with  the 
Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement 
Associations.  What  a  grand  oppor- 
tunitv  it  is  there  for  every  voting 
man  to  become  acquainted  with  the 
principles  of  the  gospel  and  to  learn 
how  to  deliver  those  principles  in 
such  a  wav  that  thev  may  be  lis- 
tened to  and  understood  by  others. 
The  Religion  Class  organization, 
that  organization  which  has  not,  I 
feel,  received   the    support  that  it 


ought  to  receive,  O  that  is  a  won- 
derful organization,  my  brethren 
and  sisters.  There  is  no  organiza- 
tion in  the  world  like  it.  It  comes 
to  our  children  in  the  day  time,  in 
the  week  clay.  It  comes  to  them 
alongside  of  their  school  work  while 
they  are  getting  this  secular  train- 
ing. Here  is  an  opportunity  for 
them  to  be  truly  built  up  and 
trained. 

I  feel  that  we  do  not  appreciate 
the  wonderful  blessings  and  oppor- 
tunities that  we  enjoy  as  Latter-day 
Saints  through  these  organizations. 

And  then  there  is  that  wonderful 
organization  of  the  young,  the  Sun- 
day School.  The  churches,  the 
school  houses,  the  assembly  halls 
could  not  hold,  as  they  are  able  to 
do,  all  of  these  young  people,  if 
they  would  embrace  the  opportunity 
presented  to  them  in  attending  this 
wonderful  institution. 

And  then  the  Relief  Society. 
There  is  another  institution,  humble 
in  its  action,  but  very  efficient  in 
everything  that  it  does.  I  am  glad 
indeed  to  learn  now  that  it  is  com- 
ing more  to  the  notice  of  Latter-day 
Samts  and  of  the  world.  God  bless 
that  institution.    May  it  prosper. 

We  have  another  organization  in 
our  midst,  and  that  is  the  Church 
schools.  The  Church,  through  the 
Trustee-in-Trust,  is  taking  some- 
thing like  a  third  of  a  million  dol- 
lars annually,  and  giving  it  for  the 
support  of  these  institutions. 

I  feel  that  sometimes  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  do  not  fully  appreciate 
this  wonderful  blessing  which  we 
have,  especially  in  these  regions 
where  they  are  located.  Why,  these 
school  rooms  ought  to  be  filled  to 
overflowing,  so  that  each  teacher 
who  is  employed  there  should  be 
able  to  teach  to  his  or  her  full  ca- 
pacity, that  the   Latter-day  Saints 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


should  be  there  so  that  there  would 
not  be  empty  benches  nor  small 
classes.  It  is  a  great  thing,  a  great 
blessing,  to  be  able  at  the  same  time 
that  our  young  people  are  receiving 
secular  knowledge  and  training,  to 
be  also  trained  in  the  principles  of 
the  everlasting  gospel,  and  be  im- 
mersed, as  it  were,  in  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  at  the  same  time,  which 
gives  light  and  understanding  to  the 
human  mind. 

One  thing  in  this  connection  that 
I  will  take  the  liberty  of  mention- 
ing. The  United  States  Govern- 
ment, through  its  liberality  and  gen- 
erosity, has  established  one  of  the 
units  of  the  Students'  Army  Train- 
ing Corps  in  one  of  our  Latter-day 
Saint  institutions,  that  of  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University,  at  Provo. 
Now  here  is  an  opportunity  along 
with  the  other  institutions  of  this 
day  for  our  young  men  to  go,  who 
are  nineteen  or  twenty  years  old, 
who  are  about  to  be  called  now  to 
go  into  the  service  of  their  country 
for  the  cause  of  liberty  and  justice 
in  the  world,  to  receive  a  training 
in  the  world  and  to  be  under  the 
influence  of  this  institution,  and  be 
prepared  to  take  very  active  part, 
even  that  of  officers,  if  their  work 
so  qualifies  them.  I  hope  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  will  take  advan- 
tage of  this  and  see  to  it  that  no 
young  man  is  deprived  of  the  op- 
portunity. Now  then,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  we  need  these  institu- 
tions more  than  the  institutions  need 
us,  and  it  behooves  us  to  take  ad- 
vantage, while  our  day  lasts,  so  that 
we  may  regard  the  opportunities 
that  have  been  given  to  us. 

I  testify  to  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  is  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God.  All  things  will  be 
shaken  that  can  be  shaken,  thrones 
will  totter,  because  earthly  nations 


as  they  are  now  constructed  will 
pass  away,  and  there  will  be  an  end 
of  such  nations,  but  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  will  not  pass  away. 
It  will  endure  through  all  of  the 
vicissitudes  that  this  poor  world  is 
called  to  pass  through.  We  belong 
to  this  Church,  and  if  we  adhere  to 
its  principles  we  will  weather  the 
gale  with  it,  which  may  God  grant, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

A  selection  entitled,  "Friendship" 
was  sung  by  a  quartette  compose  ! 
of  Elders  Pike,  Acomb,  Aldous  and 
Shurtliff. 

ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS. 

(President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

I  was  strongly  tempted  to  put  my 
hand  out  to  steady  the  ark  by  sug- 
gesting to  Elder  Richards  that  my 
time  be  given  to  President  Seymour 
B.  Young  and  to  himself ;  but  I 
thought  that  obedience,  after  lis- 
tening to  President  Rees'  remarks, 
was  the  better. 

I  have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  in- 
spiring discourses  of  this  most  ex- 
cellent conference.  I  wish  that  all 
the  young  men  and  young  women 
of  Zion  could  have  heard  what 
Elder  David  O.  McKay  had  to  say 
yesterday  in  his  great  appeal  for 
better  morals.  I  deplore,  with  el- 
der Richards,  that  there  were  so 
few  of  the  young  men  and  young 
women  who  were  present  on  that 
occasion ;  and  I  hope  that  some- 
thing will  develop  that  will  bring 
about  a  reform  with  respect  to  the 
attendance  at  the  meetings  of  the 
Saints.  There  should  be,  and  can 
be,  I  believe,  a  great  improvement, 
when  we  consider  that  there  is  so 


ELDER  NEPHI  L.  MORRIS. 


91 


small  a  percentage  of  attendance 
at  our  priesthood  meetings,  and  a 
correspondingly  small  attendance 
of  the  membership  of  the  Saints  at 
the  regular  meetings.  It  was  a 
great  height  that  Elder  McKay 
reached,  but  unfortunately  it  will 
only  reach  a  few  of  us,  with 
his  soul-burning  and  soul-moving 
words.  I  rejoiced  in  the  very  en- 
lightening discourse  of  Elder  Or- 
son F.  Whitney,  regarding  the  dis- 
covery of  America.  I  appreciate, 
perhaps  as  never  before,  what  a 
great  thing  it  is  to  be  Latter-day 
Saints  and  to  have  the  Latter-day 
Saints'  comprehension  of  things, 
and  to  know  something  of  Amer- 
ica and  its  origin ;  to  know  that 
it  was  the  very  cradle  of  humanity ; 
to  know  that  it  was  not  the  new 
world  but  the  old ;  to  know  that 
God  has  held  it  in  reserve  until  this 
day  and  age  for  the  consummation 
of  his  great  and  mighty  purposes 
in  the  earth. 

I  am  a  better  American  because 
of  my  being  a  Latter-day  Saint,  and 
so  are  you  all,  and  America  is  en- 
riched and  benefited  by  the  fact 
that  the  "Mormon"  people  have 
these  exalted  conceptions  of  the 
mission  and  destiny  of  America  in 
the  world. 

I  rejoice  in  these  things,  because 
they  reflect  to  me  the  inspiration 
of  God  and  the  providence  of  God 
over  mankind  and  particularly  over 
his  people  in  this  dispensation. 

I  rejoice  that  we  are  living  in  a 
land  of  peace  and  security,  a  land 
to  which  war  has  not  yet  come, 
al,thou,gh  we  have  gone  to  war. 
There  is  an  infinite  difference  be- 
tween those  two  propositions. 

Listening  to  those  inspiring  ad- 
dresses in  the  tabernacle  last  even- 
ing, I  could  not  help  but  feel  and 
my  soul  went  out  in  gratitude  to 


God  for  his  mercy  in  gathering  this 
people  in  these  western  mountain 
regions,  yet  I  feel  thankful  that  we 
can  take  part  in  this  great  and  ter- 
rible conflict,  which  means  the  great 
turning  point  in  human  history. 

I  rejoice  in  the  hymn,  which  I 
have  never  heard  sung,  written  by 
that  estimable  little  Latter-day 
Saint,  Sister  Emily  Hill  Woodman- 
see,  on  page  434  of  our  hymn  book, 
and  which  I  will  take  the  liberty 
here  to  read : 

Uphold  the  right,  tho'  fierce  the  fight, 

A,nd  powerful  is  the  foe; 
As  freedom's  friend,  her  cause  defend, 

Nor  fear  nor  favor  show. 

No  coward  can  be  called  a  man — 
No  friend  will  friends  betray; 

Who  would  be  free,  alert  must  be; 
Indifference  will  not  pay. 

Note  how  they  toil  whose  aim  is  spoil, 

Who  plundering  plots  devise; 
Yet  time  will  teach,  that  fool's  o'er- 
reach 

The  mark,  and  lose  the  prize. 

Can  justice  deign  to  wrong  maintain, 

Whoever  wills  it  so? 
Can    honor    mate    with  treacherous 
hate? 

Can  figs  on  thistles  grow? 

Dare  to  be  true,  and  hopeful  too; 

Be  watchful,  brave  and  shrewd; 
Weigh  every  act;  be  wise,  in  fact, 

To  serve  the  general  good. 

Nor  basely  yield,  nor  quit  a  field — 

Important  is  the  fray; 
Scorn  to  recede,  there  is  no  need 

To  give  our  rights  away. 

Left  handed  fraud  let  those  applaud 
Who  would  by  fraud  prevail; 

In  freedom's  name,  contest  their  claim, 
Use  no  such  word  as  fail; 

Honor  we  must  each  sacred  trust, 

And  rightful  zeal  display; 
Our  part  fulfill,  then,  come  what  will, 

High  heaven  will  clear  the  way." 

Such  sentiments,  my  brethren  and 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sisters,  are  in  beautiful  contrast  to 
the  spirit  of  selfishness,  hate,  desire 
for  dominion  and  glory. 

We  were  all  moved  greatly  and 
deeply  by  the  dispatches  which 
reached  us  last  night ;  but  these 
things  should  not  move  us  from 
duty.  We  should  not  quit  the  field, 
because  it  is  an  important  fray. 

I  have  thought  the  day  would 
come,  and  I  hope  soon,  when  there 
would  be  a  declaration  of  peace, 
when  the  world  would  be  restored 
not  only  to  a  normal  condition,  but 
to  a  far  better  condition  than  it  has 
even  known.  But  the  ends  of  jus- 
toe  must  be  met,  and  though  France 
and  England  and  Belgium  and  Italy 
have  been  glorified  by  the  baptism 
of  blood  and  fire  through  which 
they  have  passed,  I  fear  that  the 
lesson  has  not  yet  been  written  deep 
enough  in  the  heart  of  America  to 
make  of  us  the  nation  God  would 
have  us  be.  I  don't  believe  that 
peace  is  quite  at  our  doors  as  yet. 
If  it  is  a  lesson  God  would  have  us 
to  learn,  it  has  not  been  fully 
learned. 

I  have  hoped  for  .some  weeks  that 
when  the  time  for  a  dictated  peace 
come,  that  America  would  prove 
herself  the  great,  big  magnanimous 
nation  that  she  is,  and  bring  back 
her  two  to  four  millions  of  men 
from  France  to  their  homes,  where 
they  should  be  just  as  soon  as  con- 
ditions in  Europe  will  permit ;  and 
then  let  this  great  army  of  indus- 
trials, workers  and  artisans  of  all 
kinds,  go  back  there  as  volunteers 
to  help  build  devastated  Belgium 
and  France.  England  cannot  do  it ; 
France  cannot  do  it ;  Italy  cannot 
do  it ;  America  can  do  it.  Such  an 
act  of  magnanimity,  such  an  evi- 
dence of  human  love  and  fraternal 
spirit  and  disposition  would  for- 
ever revolutionize  the  world.     I  do 


not  believe  we  shall  see  such  a  thing 
accomplished  ;  but  while  sitting  here 
this  morning  this  thought  came  to 
me.  Yes,  Germany,  if  you  are 
ready  for  peace,  stay  where  you  are, 
in  Belgium  and  in  France.  Lay 
down  your  arms  and  pile  them 
mountain  high,  and  utilize  your 
efficiency  and  your  ingenuity  for  the 
reduction  or  trans  formation  of  those 
arms  into  plows  and  pruning  hooks 
and  the  various  implements  of  hus- 
bandry, and  break  up  and  put  in 
tillable  shape  the  soil  that  you  have 
torn  up,  and  plant  the_  trees  that 
you  have  chopped  down,  and  con- 
struct the  highways  and  the  cottages 
and  the  buildings  which  you 
have  destroyed.  Remain  there,  and 
make  restitution  now,  and  undo  as 
far  as  you  can  that  which  you  did 
in  your  mad  rush  for  glory,  con- 
quest and  power.  Make  restitution 
as  far  as  you  can.  You  cannot  re- 
store those  husbands,  those  fathers, 
to  the  children  of  that  land ;  you 
cannot,  in  the  least  degree,  repair 
the  broken  hearts,  the  deserted  fire- 
sides, the  desolate  homes ;  but  you 
can,  and  if  I  had  my  way,  you 
would,  restore  Belgium  and  France 
completely,  in  terms  of  bricks  and 
mortar,  and  macadamized  roads, 
and  farms  and  orchards  and  vine- 
yards, and  make  full  restitution. 
Justice  demands  that  of  you. 

God  hasten  the  day  when  Justice 
shall  rule  in  the  world  and  selfish- 
ness shall  hide  its  head  and  stand 
subdued,  for  selfishness  is  always  de- 
structive of  self,  and  the  only  hope 
of  the  great  and  goodly  race,  the 
German  people,  is  that  contrition  of 
heart  shall  be  given  them,  till  they 
are  willing  to  make  restitution.  If 
not,  they  must  be  continued  in  the 
conflict  until  they  are  brought  to 
their  knees.  Amen. 


ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG 


93 


PRESIDENT  SEYMOUR  B. 
YOUNG. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  With 
you  I  am  in  deep  sympathy  with 
the  remarks  that  have  been  made 
by  my  brethren  during  this  semi- 
annual conference.  I  rejoice  when 
I  hear  the  testimonies  of  my  breth- 
ren, brethren  who  stand  as  leaders 
of  the  people. 

I  believe  I  echo  your  sentiment, 
every  one  of  you,  when  I  state  that 
my  heart  bounded  within  me  with 
joy,  it  had  a  new  mooring,  a  new 
rhythm  of  happiness,  when  I  saw 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  enter 
the  tabernacle  on  the  first  day  of 
the  conference,  and  then,  yes- 
terday, as  well,  heard  his  voice 
again  in  our  midst.  With  you  I 
have  been  praying  for  this,  for  this 
denoument,  and  the  Lord  has  heard 
the  prayers  of  the  Saints.  Presi- 
dent Smith  has  had  a  new  lease  of 
life,  as  it  were,  and  we  hear  his 
voice  again  and  his  teachings,  and 
I  pray  that  this  may  continue,  that 
his  power  of  health  and  life  may 
increase,  that  he  may  live  to  be  a 
blessing  and  a  comfort  to  Israel  for 
•many  years  to  come. 

As  my  brethren  have  expressed 
themselves  this  morning,  I  agree 
fully  with  their  sentiments,  that 
"obedience  is  better  than  sac- 
rifice, and  to  hearken  than 
the  fat  of  rams."  The  power  of 
faith  also  that  was  in  the  heart 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
prompting  him  to  kneel  in  humility 
in  the  sight  of  heaven  before  his 
heavenly  Father,  away  from  the 
haunts  of  men — he  wanted  to  be 
alone,  in  communion  with  his  heav- 
enly Father ;  he  wanted  to  know  of 
his  existence ;  he  wanted  to  know 
of  his  willingness  to  respond  to  a 


humble  prayer  of  one  of  his  hum- 
ble children ;  and  the  Lord  was 
never  found  to  fail  to  respond  to 
such  prayer,  and  he  gave  the  re- 
sponse in  full  measure.  And  so, 
year  after  year,  teaching,  in  answer 
to  prayer,  this  humble  youth,  giv- 
ing him  line  upon  line  and  precept 
upon  precept,  here  a  little  and  there 
a  little,  and  finally  the  culminating 
power  and  faith  to  that  degree  that 
he  was  permitted  to  bring  to  pass 
the  righteousness  of  God  in  the  or- 
ganization of  his  Church  and  to  be- 
gin the  institution  of  the  latter-day 
gathering  of  Israel.  Josiah  Quincy 
wrote  of  his  interviews  with  the 
prophet,  a  short  year  previous  to 
the  martyrdom  of  the  prophet.  He 
describes  him  as  physically  one  of 
the  perfect  men  of  nature,  and  of 
high  spirituality,  and  then  he  makes 
this  wonderful  prediction,  if  it  may 
be  a  prediction,  and  I  believe  it  will 
be  verified:  "It  is  not  improbable 
that,  in  the  coming  generations,  this 
question  may  be  asked  in  our  public 
institutions  of  learning,  What  great 
American  has  made  the  greater  im- 
press upon  the  hearts  of  h:,s  coun- 
trymen? And  this  answer  will  not 
be  unlikely,  it  will  not  be  improb- 
able, 'That  man  is  the  'Mormon' 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith." 

The  result  of  his  ministry,  the 
organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  once  more  upon  the  earth, 
the  calling  around  him  of  stalwart 
men,  men  who  were  not  afraid,  to 
attest  and  to  speak  their  convic- 
tions, men  who,  though  strong  of 
nature  and  brave  of  heart  and  fear- 
less, were  yet  humble  as  children, 
so  that  the  spirit  of  inquiry  could 
reach  them  in  the  humility  of  their 
souls.  They  could  see  that  God 
had  raised  a  prophet  again,  and  giv- 
en him  his  power  and  his  strength ; 
and  in  their  humility  they  accepted 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


of  the  testimony  of  a  great  prophet. 
They  knew  that  he  had  seen  God, 
the  eternal  Father.  They  knew  that 
he  had  heard  the  voice  of  Jesus 
Christ,  and  seen  his  person.  They 
knew  that  by  that  inspiration  which 
followed  him,  and  which  responded 
to  his  prayer  on  every  occasion  ;  holy 
messengers  came  to  him  and  deliv- 
ered to  him  the  gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  way  to  organize 
the  Church,  the  plan  by  which  sal- 
vation was  to  reach  humanity  the 
world  over.  And  so  the  gospel  be- 
gan to  be  preached  by  this  united 
band  of  brethren,  who  gathered 
around  the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  the 
days  of  the  infancy  of  the  Church, 
and  the  result  has  been  wonderful 
to  behold. 

And  I  was  thinking,  like  Brother 
Morris,  of  the  wonderful  plan  God 
instituted  through  his  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith,  how  the  very  events, 
the  very  providential  occurrences, 
and  the  times,  have  been  so  propi- 
tious that  seemingly  everything  has 
worked  out  for  the  advancement  of 
this  great  cause  of  truth.  Do  I  in- 
clude with  that  everything,  the  op- 
position, which  they  have  met  from 
time  to  time?  Yes,  for  that  was  a 
schooling  to  them.  It  was  a  neces- 
sary schooling.  The  men  who  were 
known  as  among  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  from  the  time  of  its  organ- 
ization to  the  present  have  been 
men  that  were  willing  to  accept  of 
the  providences  of  God.  I  re- 
member reading  something  about 
their  experiences  in  Jackson  coun- 
ty, Missouri,  in  Far  West,  and  in 
the  massacre  that  occurred  at 
Haun's  Mill,  1838,  and  other  places, 
showing  what  those  new  beginners 
felt,  if  I  may  use  the  sentence, 
members  who  had  had  little  experi- 
ence or  none,  meeting  these  awful 
conditions,  where  they  saw  their 


brethren,  their  sisters,  their  chil- 
dren, shot  down :  where  men  and 
women  and  children  were  banished 
from  their  homes  in  winter  season. 
This  came  to  the  new  converts  of 
the  faith.  It  had  made  such  an 
impress  upon  them,  this  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  had  found  such  a 
hold  upon  their  hearts  that  they 
never  flinched  nor  turned  from 
their  conviction.  Although  caused 
to  wander,  to  wade  through  these 
scenes  of  oppression  and  depriva- 
tion, yet  they  remain  true  and  faith- 
ful. So  the  Church  had,  in  the  be- 
ginning, stalwart  men,  as  it  has  to- 
day, only  they  are  multiplied  by 
thousands  and  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands. We  have  our  leader 
with  us,  the  prophet,  seer  and  reve- 
lator,  the  man  who  says,  Thus 
saith  the  Lord  to  Israel,  to  all  the 
world,  if  they  believe,  for  his  min- 
istry extends  to  every  son  and 
daughter  of  God  that  will  hear,  and 
to  them  he  has  promised,  as  you 
have  heard  today,  he  will  own 
them  to  be  his  children,  if  they  will 
accept  his  word. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have 
as  great  a  wish  that  the  war  would 
speedily  terminate  as  any  man  can 
have ;  and  yet  I  feel,  as  Brother 
Morris  has  expressed  himself  this 
morning  and  other  brethren  during 
this  conference,  that  in  the  due  time 
of  the  Lord  he  will  bring  peace  to 
the  earth.  And  when  he  brings 
peace  to  the  earth,  and  establishes 
his  rule  and  reign  of  righteousness, 
it  will  be  established,  and  we  will 
see  the  glory  and  the  happiness  of 
that  peaceful  reign  upon  the  earth. 

I  hope  with  all  my  heart  that 
the  teachings  of  these  good  mothers 
and  the  teachings  of  these  good 
fathers  may  be  so  deeply  impressed 
upon  the  hearts  of  our  soldier  boys 
that  they  will  go  into  action,  go 


ELDER  JONATHAN  G.  CUTLER. 


95 


into  the  trenched  fields  and  receive 
their  training,  and  march,  into  the 
battles  with  clean  hands  and  pure 
hearts,  as  they  left  you  from  your 
firesides.  Should  they  do  this, 
and  I  believe  they  will,  most  of 
them,  and  I  hope  all  of  them,  you 
will  .see  the  blessing  of  God  upon 
them  wherever  they  go ;  and  this 
may  be  a  consolation  to  every 
mother's  heart. 

God  bless  you  all,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  hasten  the  day  of 
peace,  and  the  rule  and  reign  of 
righteousness  upon  the  earth,  is  my 
humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L.  RICHARDS 

I  am  sure  that  I  speak  your  feel- 
ings when  I  say  to  the  LeGrand 
ward  choir,  and  the  excellent  mu- 
sicians who  have  accompanied 
them,  that  we  have  enjoyed  their 
splendid  music  this  day.  We  thank 
them,  also  those  who  have  sung 
to  us  in  the  selections  intervening, 
for  the  very  excellent  renditions 
with  which  they  have  favored  us. 

I  am  also  very  sure  that  we  have 
greatly  enjoyed  the  excellent  and 
inspired  words  that  have  been  spo- 
ken by  the  brethren  who  have  ad- 
dressed us. 

The  choir  sang:  "With  sheathed 
sword." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
Elijah  Allen  of  the  presidency  of 
the  Maricopa  Stake  of  Zion. 


OUTDOOR  MEETING. 

An  open  air  meeting  was  held  at 
the  Bureau  of  Information  build- 
ing at  10  o'clock,  Sunday,  October 


6,  Elder  Joseph  W.  McMurrin,  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  pre- 
siding. 

Music  was  furnished  by  the  con- 
gregation, Elder  Joseph  Spencer 
Cornwall,  chorister. 

Congregation  sang :  "Come, 
come,  ye  Saints." 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered 
by  Elder  Charles  S.  Parker. 

The  Congregation  sang,  "Sow- 
ing." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

We  are  very  glad  to  see  such  a 
manifestation  of  anxiety  to  hear 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
expounded.  While  the  weather  is 
not  very  propitious,  we  trust  that 
in  our  souls  we  may  be  fed  with 
the  bread  of  life,  and  that  we  may 
rejoice  in  the  things  pertaining  to 
the  kingdom  of  God  that  may  be 
brought  to  our  attention. 


ELDER  JONATHAN  C.  CUTLER. 

(President   of  the   Curlew   Stake  of 
Zion,  Idaho.) 

The  beloved  apostle,  John,  left  on 
record,  for  the  benefit  and  consola- 
tion of  the  children  of  men,  these 
words:  "For  God  sent  not  his  Son 
into  the  world  to  condemn  the 
world,  but  that  the  world  through 
him  might  be  saved."  So,  if  men 
and  women  are  condemned,  it  is  by 
our  own  actions.  It  was  not  the 
purpose  or  the  mission  of  the  Mas- 
ter to  condemn  men.  Salvation  is 
held  out  to  all  of  the  children  of 
men. 

While  the  Lord  uses  no  particular 
coercion,  we  are  persuaded,  counsel- 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ed,  and  advised  to  live  the  gospel. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  have  heen 
accused  of  being'  a  narrow-minded 
people,  but  this  is  from  the  lack  of 
understanding  of  those  who  do  not 
understand  our  intent  nor  the  gospel 
as  we  preach  it.  We  are  broader 
than  any  other  denomination  in  our 
views  and  in  our  teachings  of  the 
gospel.  We  understand  that  it  is 
the  object,  and  was  the  object  in 
the  beginning,  to  accomplish  the  sal- 
vation of  all  of  the  human  family, 
and  that  some  time  and  somewhere, 
all  who  desired  would  receive  some 
kind  of  salvation.  But  the  plan  of 
salvation  holds  out,  throug'h  the 
gospel,  a  code  of  laws  that  can  not 
only  bring  unto  the  children  of  men 
salvation,  but  will  bring  unto  them 
exaltation,  and  bring  them  back  in- 
to the  presence  of  our  Father,  from 
whence  we  came ;  and  in  order  that 
we  may  gain  this  exaltation,  it  is 
necessary  for  us  to  live  up  to  the 
code  of  laws  that  has  been  laid 
down  By  the  Master  for  us  to  fol- 
low, and  we  must  comply  with  these 
in  order  that  we  may  come  back 
into  his  presence  and  receive  the 
blessing  that  is  in  store  for  the 
faithful.  We  believe  in  an  individ- 
ual salvation  as  well  as  a  general 
salvation,  and  in  order  that  men 
may  be  exalted,  they  must  comply 
with  the  laws  and  ordinances  laid 
down  by  the  lawgivers,  even  before 
the  foundation  of  this  earth. 

Some  have  the  idea  that  salva- 
tion simply  means  a  reunion  of  the 
body  with  the  spirit,  or  a  resurrec- 
tion of  the  body;  and  if  they  can 
only  attain  to  it,  this  seems  to  be 
the  height  of  the  ambition  of  a  great 
many  people  with  whom  I  have 
talked.  But  the  atonement  was  as 
wide  as  the  fall.  We  are  told  in 
the  I  Corinthians  15  that  "As  in 


Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall 
all  be  made  alive."  So,  without 
any  particular  exertion  upon  the 
part  of  the  children  of  men,  we 
are  going  to  be  resurrected.  But 
this  does  not  insure  to  any  individ- 
ual salvation,  nor  exaltation,  which 
to  obtain,  I  believe,  is  the  ambition 
of  every  man  and  woman.  There 
is  none  but  desires  salvation,  though 
there  are  a  great  many  who  are  not 
working  to  that  end.  Now,  in  order 
that  we  may  bring  and  merit  unto 
ourselves  a  complete  exaltation,  and 
be  worthy  to  come  back  into  the 
presence  of  our  Father,  there  is  a 
code  of  laws  that  we  must  live  up 
to.  First,  we  must  have  faith  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father.  We  must 
be  willing'  to  repent  of  our  sins.  And 
after  we  have  repented  of  our  sins, 
it  then  becomes  necessary  for  us  to 
be  baptized  by  immersion  for  the 
remission  of  them,  and  receive  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  is  a  guide  to  t-he 
path  of  men  and  women  here  in  the 
earth.  We  take  the  stand  as  Latter- 
day  Saints  that  all  men  and  all  wo- 
men must  comply  with  the  law  in 
order  to  gain  an  exaltation. 

But,  says  one,  are  you  going  to 
condemn  all  who  are  not  baptized  ? 
There  are  millions  of  people  who 
have  not  had  the  privilege  of  re- 
ceiving the  gospel,  and  what  is 
going  to  become  of  this  class  of 
people?  There  is  where  we  take 
a  broader  view  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  than  does  any  other  de- 
nomination. We  do  not  hold  that 
this  life  is  the  only  chance  that  men 
have  to  hear  or  embrace  the  gos- 
pel, but  we  believe  that  the  time 
will  come  when  every  knee  shall 
bow  and  every  tongue  confess  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  men  who  do 
not  have  that  privilege  here  will 
have  the  privilege  hereafter  granted 


ELDER  .JONATHAN  C.  CUTLER. 


7y 


unto  them.  We  are  given  to  under- 
stand by  the  Apostle  Peter  that 
the  gospel  is  preached  to  the  spirits 
in  the  spirit  world.  Isaiah  foresaw 
this.  He  foresaw  the  mission  of 
the  Savior.  He  saw  that  he  was 
going  to  come  here  in  the  flesh,  and 
would  be  crucified,  and  while  his 
body  was  lying  in  the  tomb,  "He 
went  and  unlocked  the  prison  door 
and  let  the  captives  free."  Peter 
gave  us  to  understand  that  this  was 
carried  out.  He  says,  "For  this 
cause  was  the  gospel  preached  unto 
them  that  are  dead ;"  showing  that 
all  who  do  not  have  the  privilege 
here  are  going  to  have  the  privilege 
sometime  and  somewhere. 

Men  may  reject  the  gospel  here, 
and  it  seems  that  even  they  are 
going  to  have  another  chance  of 
hearing  it,  according  to  the  words 
of  Peter,  though  Noah  preached  to 
the  people  and  warned  them  in  his 
day  and  they  rejected  his  counsel 
and  teaching,  and  no  doubt  called 
him  (as  they  have  called  the 'ser- 
vants of  God  in  all  ages)  imposters, 
and  would  not  accept  his  message. 
The  result  was,  according  to  the 
decrees  of  the  Lord,  that  the  flood 
came  and  overtook  the  people,  and 
there  were  only  a  few  saved  ;  yet, 
even  that  class  of  people  had  the 
privilege  of  hearing  the  sound  of  the 
gospel  in  the  spirit  world,  and  were 
given  another  chance  to  receive  it. 

But  in  this  world,  now  and  here, 
my  friends,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
is  the  place  that  we  should  receive 
the  gospel.  If  we  do  not,  we  make 
the  sad  mistake  that  the  people  in 
Noah's  day  made,  and  condemn  our- 
selves. Remember,  there  was  a  long 
period  of  time,  for  two  thousand 
years,  after  that  people  had  been 
swept  from  the  earth,  that  they  lay 
in  the  prison  in  the  spirit  world. 


Alma  told  his  son,  in  pleading  with 
him,  trying  to  show  him  that  the 
spirits  of  all  men  when  they  leave 
the  body  go  back  into  the  presence 
of  God  from  whence  they  came,  for 
a  partial  judgment,  that  the  spirits  of 
the  righteous  are  assigned  to  a  place 
of  peace,  rest,  and  happiness,  while 
on  the  other  hand,  the  spirits  of  the 
wicked  go  to  a  place  of  punishment 
during  that  period.  This  also  bears 
out  the  statement  of  the  rich  man 
and  Lazarus.  While  Lazarus  was  a 
good  man  and  did  all  the  good  he 
could  here,  we  find  the  rich  man 
did  just  the  opposite ;  and  the  time 
came  that  Lazarus  died,  and  the  rich 
man  died,  and  they  met  on  the  other 
side.  It  was  then  that  the  eyes  of 
the  rich  man  were  opened.  He  saw- 
where  he  had  made  the  mistake 
here  in  mortality,  and  he  pleaded 
with  Lazarus  to  visit  him.  But  the 
answer  was,  There  is  a  gulf  between 
you  and  me,  and  I  cannot  come. 
The  rich  man  felt  the  truth  of  it, 
and  pleaded  with  Lazarus  that  a 
spirit  or  an  angel  might  be  sent 
down  to  the  earth  to  warn  his  breth- 
ren, because  he  did  not  want  them 
to  come  where  he  was.  The  answer 
was  this,  They  have  Moses  and  the 
prophets,  and  if  they  will  not  listen 
and  hearken  unto  the  voice  of  the 
prophets,  they  would  not  accept  one 
though  he  be  raised  from  the  dead. 
This  gives  us  to  understand  that  a 
place  of  punishment  and  a  place  of 
anything  but  happines  is  prepared 
for  the  spirits  who  leave  this  life 
and  go  into  the  spirit  world  unpre- 
pared. We  have  evidence  upon  evi- 
dence, to  which  we  cannot  refer  this 
morning  on  account  of  the  time  not 
permitting. 

What  I  wish  to  impress  upon  the 
young  people  especially  is,  prepare 
yourselves  in  this  life,  that  you  may 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


be  able  to  continue  the  work  and  not 
be  hindered  and  condemned  as  were 
the  rich  man  and  the  antediluvian, 
who  by  error  hindered  and  con- 
demned themselves  for  that  period 
of  time.  The  object  of  the  gospel 
was  to  .save,  and  not  only  save,  but 
to  exalt  all  mankind.  This  is  the 
object  the  Lord  has  in  these  the 
last  days  in  revealing  the  gospel  un- 
to the  children  of  men,  that  we  may 
receive  an  exaltation,  and  come  back 
into  his  presence. 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to 
you  here  this  morning.  I  know  that 
the  gospel  is  true.  I  know  that  the 
Lord  has  again  spoken  from  the 
heavens,  and  revealed  his  priest- 
hood, and  has  delegated  the  author- 
ity and  power  to  men  to  officiate  in 
his  name  arid  make  it  binding,  as 
was  promised  to  Peter,  that  what- 
ever he  bound  on  earth  should  be 
bound  in  heaven,  and  whatever  he 
loosed  on  earth,  should  be  loosed 
in  heaven.  That  same  power  is 
here,  the  same  blessing  and  the  same 
gifts  are  here  with  the  Church  to- 
day, as  in  that  day.  This  is  why 
we  are  called  a  peculiar  people,  be- 
cause we  differ  from  the  world.  We 
d,o  not  find  anv  fault  with  them. 
We  think  it  is  the  right  of  all  men 
to  worship  according  to  the  dic- 
tates of  their  conscience.  We  do  not 
condemn  them,  but  we  have  a  great- 
er lieht.  And  it  is  our  duty  to  hold 
that  light  up  to  the  world,  that  it 
may  shine  that  they  may  see  as  we 
see. 

I  prav  the  Lord  to  bless  us  with 
his  spirit,  that  our  understandings 
may  be  quickened,  that  our  deter- 
minations for  good  may  be  increas- 
ed, and  that  we  may  be  able  not 
only  to  gain  a  salvation  in  the  king- 
dom of  God,  but  to  gain  an  exalta- 
tion, ard  come  back  into  his  pres- 
ence and  live  forever,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  HALLS. 

(President   of   the   Young   Stake  of 
Zion,  Colorado.) 

I  am  reminded  of  a  saying  of  the 
Savior,  "Come  unto  me,  ye  that  la- 
bor and  are  heavy  laden."  We  can 
take  that  as  we  desire  to  take  it.  If 
we  are  sick,  we  think  of  that  and 
seek  our  heavenly  Father.  If  we 
are  weary  in  mind  or  body,  and 
think  of  that  admonition,  we  turn 
to  our  heavenly  Father.  So  we  can 
construe  that  just  as  we  please,  ac- 
cording to  our  attitude  and  accord- 
ing to  our  needs. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  time  when 
Cornelius  needed  assistance,  and  he 
went  to  his  heavenly  Father,  and  he 
was  directed  what  to  do.  He  sent 
for  the  servants  of  the  Lord,  and 
they  directed  him  what  to  do,  and 
he  was  baptized,  he  and  his  whole 
household,  and  no  doubt  they  were 
saved  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

I  am  reminded  of  another  in- 
stance at  another  time  and  place, 
when  a  man  went  to  his  heavenly 
Father.  You  remember  one  time  in 
the  history  of  the  Nephites  that  one 
Alma  was  converted  by  Abinadi  the 
Prophet,  and  performed  a  wonder- 
ful work  and  brought  souls  almost 
everywhere,  so  far  as  he  knew  ev- 
erywhere, to  repentance,  and  estab- 
lished the  Church.  After  a  while  his 
son  and  others,  sons  of  Mosiah, 
went  about  trying  to  undo  that 
work ;  and  it  worried  Alma  very 
much,  and  he  importuned  the  Lord, 
and  finally  his  prayer  was  answered. 
The  Lord  came  to  his  rescue,  and 
xAlma,  his  son,  and  the  sons 
of  Mosiah  were  converted,  and 
much  good  resulted.  Through 
their  efforts,  many  of  the  La- 
manites  received  the  gospel.  All 
this  through  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord  listening  to  his  servant  Alma 
and  answering  his  prayer.    So  we 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


99 


find  these  instances,  one  on  one  con- 
tinent, and  one  on  the  other,  where 
the  Lord  was  willing  to  listen  to 
his  servants  and  do  what  they  asked 
him  to  do,  inasmuch  as  it  was  asked 
in  righteousness. 

I  want  to  call  attention  to  another 
time  in  the  history  of  the  world,  in 
our  day,  when  a  boy  importuned  his 
heavenly  Father  to  know  what  was 
right.  He  wanted  to  know  whHi 
of  the  denominations  that  he  was 
acquainted  with  was  the  denomina- 
tion of  the  Almighty.  He  did  not 
have  any  doubt  but  what  one  of 
them  belonged  to  God.  It  was  all 
he  knew,  and,  of  course,  he  thought 
that  he  had  heard  the  truth  among 
some  of  them.  And  so,  according 
to  his  faith  and  his  prayer  and  the 
trusting  nature  of  his  soul,  the  Lord 
came  to  him,  and  the  Son  was  re- 
vealed to  him,  and  after  that,  angels 
came  to  him  and  established  this 
gospel ;  and  so  thousands  of  people 
have  been  made  partakers  of  the 
truth  through  that  humble  boy's 
seeking  his  heavenly  Father  to 
know  that  which  was  the  truth.  So 
the  Lord  has  blessed  his  people 
through  the  faith  and  fidelity  of  the 
boy  prophet. 

I  have  quoted  these  three  in- 
stances, on  two  continents  and  at 
various  periods  of  time,  to  show  un- 
to us  that  the  Lord  is  no  respecter 
of  persons,  but  that  in  every  age 
and  to  every  people,  those  who  seek 
him  in  righteousness  will  be  heard 
of  him,  and  find  him ;  and  so  we 
find  him  today,  in  these  trying  times 
— because  some  of  us  labor  and  are 
heavy  laden.  Into  the  homes  of  the 
Latter-dav  Saints,  as  well  as  in  the 
nations  of  the  earth,  sorrow  comes, 
and  probbaly  will  come,  and  we 
need  to  seek  our  heavenly  Father 
and  importune  him  for  his  bless- 
ings. 


I  want,  before  I  close,  to  bear  my 
testimony  to  the  truthfulness  of  the 
gospel.  Not  long  ago  I  found  my- 
self in  a  hospital,  surrounded  by 
strangers,  people  not  of  our  faith ; 
and  I  want  to  testify  that  I  desired 
more  than  anything  at  that  time,  to 
see  an  elder  in  Israel ;  and  after  a 
few  days,  one  of  my  friends  heard  I 
was  there,  and  came.  The  greatest 
blessing  I  received  at  that  time  was 
for  that  elder  of  Israel  to  come 
there  and  lay  his  hands  upon  me  and 
bless  me ;  and  I  know  that  the  Lord 
blessed  me,  and  I  thank  my  heav- 
enly Father  for  this  manifestation 
of  his  goodness.  I  thank  him  that 
he  answers  my  prayers,  and  that  he 
answers  your  prayers,  and  the 
prayers  of  the  honest  in  heart  in 
all  ages  of  the  world. 

So  may  he  answer  our  prayers  in 
the  future,  that  we  may  have  peace 
in  the  land,  that  iniquity  may  cease, 
that  war  and  bloodshed  may  be  ban- 
ished from  the  face  of  the  earth,  and 
the  people  of  the  earth  and  the  rul- 
ers of  the  earth  may  be  willing  to 
serve  the  Lord  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments. And  may  truth  and 
righteousness  go  out  from  Zion,  and 
spread  over  all  the  earth,  and  the 
knowledge  of  the  Lord  cover  the 
earth  as  the  waters  cover  the  sea ; 
and  may  all  people  hear  of  the  boy 
prophet,  Joseph,  and  of  the  won- 
derful message  that  we  have ;  and 
that  the  honest  in  heart  may  hear 
and  obey  the  gospel,  I  ask  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD. 

(Of  the  Bureau  of  Information,  Salt 
Lake  City.) 

I  am  very  glad  to  be  with  you, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  but  sorry 
that  we  cannot  accommodate  every 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


one  who  desires  to  attend  this  meet- 
ing; the  weatKer  being  unpropitious 
has  compelled  us  to  crowd  here. 
Whether  or  not  you  are  all  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  I  do  not  know, 
for  gathered  together  upon  this 
block  are  many  strangers  from  for- 
eign lands. 

Many  years  ago  two  young  elders 
were  preaching  the  gospel  as  mis- 
sionaries in  one  of  our  mining 
camps  in  the  mountains.  There 
were  quite  a  few  strangers  gath- 
ered round  to  listen  to  them.  They 
were  only  boys ;  but  they  were  ex- 
plaining the  gospel  as  taught  to 
them  by  their  fathers  and  mothers 
and  according  the  testimonies  that 
they  had  received ;  and  in  that 
crowd  were  one  or  two  Latter-day 
Saints,  that  these  young  elders  did 
not  know  anything  about;  one  of 
them  was  an  elder,  and  he  remarked 
to  his  companion.  "I  can  hardly 
stand  still ;  these  people  around  us 
are  listening  to  these  young  men, 
and  I  have  a  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel, too,  and  I  want  to  bear  it."  So 
when  the  time  came,  and  one  of 
the  elders  discontinued,  he  stepped 
into  the  street  and  commenced  also 
to  bear  his  testimony.  That  elder 
had  performed  missions,  he  knew 
just  what  the  gospel  was,  he  wanted 
to  help  those  young  men,  he  felt  the 
time  was  opportune  for  bearing  his 
testimony,  and  he  did  so  to  the 
amazement  and  the  consternation 
of  some  gathered  there,  the  elders 
themselves  not  knowing  who  he 
was. 

Upon  the  Temple  block  it  is  per- 
fectly natural  for  us  to  preach  the 
gospel,  very  often  unto  strangers, 
however,  for  they  are  the  ones  who 
come  here  daily.  Perhaps,  for  your 
information,  I  might  say  that  upon 
this  block  everv  year  we  have  from 
200.000  to  300,000  strangers  from 


all  parts  of  the  world,  desirous  of 
knowing  something  with  regard  to 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  and  the  principles 
revealed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith ;  they  come,  and  we 
■do  not  know  who  they  are  or  where 
they  are  from,  until  they  make  it 
known ;  but  the  same  testimony  that 
you  have,  Latter-day  Saints,  is 
borne  unto  them  under  the  shadow 
of  this  roof,  and  it  commences  very 
often  with  the  beautiful  little  story 
referred  to  by  Brother  Halls.  I 
want  to  emphasize  that.  To  us  it 
means  everything  as  far  as  this 
Church  is  concerned,  as  far  as  our 
faith  is  concerned,  as  far  as  our 
hope  of  eternal  life  is  concerned,  for 
without  that,  we  would  not  be  here, 
nor  would  we  understand  the  gos- 
rel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  its 
fulness. 

A  gentleman  came  here  recently 
and  handed  me  his  card.  I  have  it 
here  now — a  t'tled  gentleman,  a 
professor  of  the  Universitv  and  di- 
rector of  the  Academy  Royal,  at 
Brussels.  He  was  traveling 
through  here  and  had  called  on  the 
Presidency,  had  visited  a  number 
of  our  institutions,  and  he  had  seen 
what  Salt  Lake  City  was.  He  gazed 
with  wonder  upon  the  Temple,  and 
later  came  into  the  office  adjoining 
here.  And  this  was  his  story,  in  his 
broken  tongue,  which  I  cannot  give 
to  you,  for  he  gave  it  as  only  a 
Belgian  can. 

"I  have  visited  your  city.  I  have 
seen  these  wonderful  streets.  I 
have  seen  those  wonderful  build- 
ings. I  have  been  talking  to  some 
of  vour  officers  in  the  Church.  I 
find  that  there  is  here  in  Salt  Lake 
City  something  that  I  do  not  under- 
stand. I  want  to  know  something 
more  of  your  faith  and  what  you 
believe  in." 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


101 


And  then  he  asked  the.  very  sim- 
ple question,  that  caused  some  of 
our  people  to  smile,  "Do  you  be- 
lieve in  God?  Do  you  believe  in 
Jesus  Christ?" 

You  could  observe  how  anxious 
he  was  to  learn  of  our  faith.  How 
•did  we  commence  to  answer  that, 
think  you?  "Believe  in  God?  Yes, 
the  very  first  article  of  our  faith  is, 
'We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost,'  a  sentence 
that  every  little  boy  and  every  little 
girl  in  our  Sunday  School  can  re- 
cite. It  is  taught  unto  them,  and 
they  understand  it." 

"How  do  you  know  that?  How 
do  you  know  that  there  is  a  God? 
How  do  you  know  that  he  has  a  Son 
Jesus  Christ?" 

And  then  comes  up  the  story  that 
Brother  Halls  very  briefly  touched 
upon,  that  the  very  beginning  of 
our  work  was  a  revelation  from 
God  to  the  boy  prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  as  beautiful  a  story  as  is  to 
be  found  in  any  literature — that  a 
boy  between  fourteen  and  fifteen 
vears  of  age,  with  a  deep  anxiety 
to  know  the  will  of  God,  bowed  in 
humble  prayer,  and  in  faith  asked 
the  Lord  for  direction. 

"  'How  do  we  know  that  there  is 
a  God  ?  How  do  we  know  that  he 
has  a  Son  Jesus  Christ?'  We  know 
it  because  Joseph  Smith  the  Proph- 
et saw  God,  he  heard  him  speak,  he 
saw  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  he  heard 
the  words  of  the  Father,  when 
nointing  unto  the  Son,  saying,  'This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  ye  him.'  It 
is  not  a  fairy  storv,  it  occurred  in 
that  beautiful  grove  near  Palmyra, 
in  the  western  part  of  the  State  of 
New  York." 

The  gentleman  was  surprised  at 
that  story.  He  could  scarcely  com- 
prehend it.    But  I  could  tell  by  the 


change  of  his  countenance,  by  the 
glance  of  his  eye,  by  the  eager  man- 
ner in  which  he  leaned  forward  to 
learn  more,  that  he  caught  the 
spirit  of  that  first  vision  as  you  and 
I  caught  it. 

And  then  he  asked,  "Well,  that 
God,  is  he  like  a  man?" 

Then  comes  the  truth  made 
known  in  this  dispensation  by  the 
boy  prophet  Joseph  Smith,  that  the 
Eternal  One  is  not  a  mythical  be 
ing,  he  is  not  a  being  without  body, 
parts  or  passions,  he  is  not  a  spirit 
pervading  all  space ;  but  he  is  a  per- 
sonage, a  personage  of  body,  of 
spirit,  with  parts  as  I  have,  and  that 
it  has  been  made  known  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  that  man, 
in  very  deed,  is  in  the  image  of  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  that  the  Son  is 
also  in  his  express  image.  Joseph 
Smith  received  this  testimony,  he 
could  never  depart  from  it,  he  could 
not  deny  it.  He  had  seen  the  Fath- 
er, he 'had  seen  the  Son,  he  had  re- 
reived  from  the  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
instructions  with  regard  to  this 
great  mission ;  and  this  testimony 
many  of  my  brethren  and  sisters 
here  have  received,  and  in  this  re- 
spect we  stand  to  a  very  great  ex- 
tent in  the  same  position  as  Joseph 
Smith. 

I  trust  we  shall  have  the  very 
same  spirit,  for  after  he  had  re- 
ferred to  the  instructions  given  him 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  he  stated 
— that  the  spirit  of  bitter  reviling 
and  persecution  which  followed 
gave  him,  the  youthful  prophet,  a 
great  deal  of  sorrow.  Ffowever,  he 
says  in  his  own  statement : 

"It  was  nevertheless  a  fact  that  I 
had  beheld  a  vision.  I  have  thought 
since,  that  I  felt  much  like  Paul,  when 
he  made  his  defense  before  King 
Agrippa,  and  related  the  account  of 
the  vision  he  had  when  he  saw  a  light. 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


and  heard  a  voice;  but  still  there  were 
but  few  who  believed  him;  some  said 
he  was  dishonest,  others  said  he  was 
mad;  and  he  was  ridiculed  and  reviled, 
But  all  this  did  not  destroy  the  reality 
of  his  vision.  He  had  seen  a  vision, 
he  knew  he  had,  and  all  the  persecu- 
tion under  heaven  could  not  make  it 
otherwise;  and  though  they  should 
persecute  him  unto  death,  yet  he  knew, 
and  would  know  to  his  latest  breath, 
that  he  had  both  seen  a  light,  and 
heard  a  voice  speaking  unto  him,  and 
all  the  world  could  not  make  him 
think  or  believe  otherwise. 

"So  it  was  with  me.  I  had  actually 
seen  a  light,  and  in  the  midst  of  that 
light  I  saw  two  personages,  and  they 
did  dn  reality  speak  to  me;  and  though 
I  was  hated  and  persecuted  for  saying 
that  I  had  seen  a  vision,  yet  it  was 
true;  and  while  they  were  persecuting 
me,  reviling  me,  and  speaking  all  man- 
ner of  evil  against  me  falsely  for  so 
saying,  I  was  led  to  say  in  my  heart: 
Why  persecute  me  for  telling  the 
truth?  I  have  actually  seen  a  vision, 
and  who  am  I  that  T  can  withstand 
God,  or  why  does  the  world  think  to 
make  me  deny  what  I  have  actually 
seen?  For  I  had  seen  a  vision;  I 
knew  it,  and  I  knew  that  God  knew  it, 
and  I  could  not  deny  it,  neither  dared 
I  do  it,  at  least  I  knew  that  by  so 
doing  I  would  offend  God,  and  come 
under  condemnation." 

"Now,"  said  my  friend,  "tell  me 
something  more." 

"Very  well,  we  have  commenced 
now  with  this  great  revelation  com- 
ing in  the  latter  days  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith.  We  believe  in  God 
the  Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ.  Why?  Because  the 
Prophet  Joseph  saw  them,  heard 
them,  received  revelations  from 
them.  We  have  faith  in  God.  So 
that  the  first  principle  of  the  gospel 
comes  in.  Isn't  it  easy  to  have 
faith  in  such  a  God?  Faith,  fol- 
lowed by  repentance,  baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the 
laying  on  of  hands.  We  have  these 
plain  and  simple  principles  before 


us  day  by  day,  and  do  not  they  in- 
spire our  lives?" 

I  am  not  going  to  take  more  time. 
You  want  to  hear  from  President 
McMurrin.  We  love  to  hear  him 
and  his  testimony,  for  few  men  in 
this  Church  have  been  raised  from 
('eath  unto  life  while  defending  the 
truth  as  has  this  man  who  is  before 
you,  a  living  testimony  of  the  power 
of  God  in  this  dispensation,  and  we 
love  him  for  that,  as  well  as  for  his 
fidelity. 

Now,  what  is  the  lesson  1  want 
to  draw  ?  We  are  amongst  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world,  coming  in  contact 
with  them  day  by  day. .  It  is  my 
privilege  to  meet  them  by  the  thou- 
sands, it  is  your  privilege  to  meet 
them  in  your  various  localities. 
Where  do  we  stand?  We  stand 
ready  at  all  times  to  do  as  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  :  we  have 
received  this  testimony  of  the  gos- 
pel in  our  hearts,  we  know  that  it 
is  true.  God  knows  that  I  know 
that  this  gospel  is  true,  that  the  tes- 
timony that  I  bear  comes  from  mv 
very  heart,  and  that  the  dearest 
thing  to  me  on  earth  is  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that  it  ha<; 
given  unto  me  certain  blessings.  It 
has  given  them  unto  you  Latter- 
day  Saints.  In  the  temple  of  the 
Lord  we  have  been  sealed  as  hus- 
bands and  wives  for  time  and  for 
all  eternity.  We  have  had  innumer- 
able blessings.  What  shall  we  do? 
We  will  do  as  the  Prophet  Joseph 
said,  continue  to  bear  this  testimony. 
They  may  persecute  us,  ridicule  us, 
heap  upon  us  all  manner  of  calumny 
but  we  know  that  the  gospel  is  true. 
In  our  various  localities,  wherever 
we  live,  in  every  little  village,  in 
every  little  town,  by  our  lives  we 
will  declare  that  this  gospel  is  true. 
With  our  voices  we  will  bear  testi- 
mony   that    Joseph  Smith  was  a 


ELDER  JOSEPH  U 

prophet  of  God.  In  our  homes,  with 
these  little  children,  such  boys  and 
girls  as  these  blessed  mothers  have 
clinging  to  them  now,  in  our  fam- 
ilies we  will  teach  our  children  from 
babvhood,  that  the  greatest  thing  on 
earth  is  a  testimony  of  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  that  it 
will  save  them,  and  save  us  through 
all  the  eternities  to  come. 

May  God  bless  you,  and  may  God 
bless  all  Israel. 

I  rejoice  exceedingly  with  you 
that  the  President  of  our  Church, 
the  Prophet  of  the  Lord,  is  so  fully 
recovered  that  he  could  be  with  'is 
in  this  conference.  I  believe  all 
Israel  throughout  the  length  and 
breadth  of  the  land  has  been  plead  - 
ing for  him.  Let  us  continue  to 
prav  that  God  will  bless  "our  proph- 
et dear."  And  may  God  establish 
us  fullv  in  the  truth  and  enable  us 
to  appreciate  h:s  revelations,  as 
p-iven  unto  us  through  the  Prophet 
Toseph  Smith,  is  my  earnest  oraver 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIN. 

(Of  the  First  Council  ,of  Seventy.) 

I  hope  all  who  are  here  feel  that 
it  has  been  better  to  come  into  this 
fathering  here  in  the  Bureau  of  In- 
formation building,  than  to  have 
seoarated  and  gone  to  our  homes 
without  continuing  the  meeting, 
when  the  storm  came  upon  us,  which 
we  started  in  the  open  air. 

I  suppose  everyone  present  knows 
that  the  same  gospel  taught  in  this 
Catherine-,  is  the  gospel  that  has 
been  taught,  and  is  being  taught,  in 
the  Tabernacle,  and  in  the  Assemblv 
Hall,  by  the  servants  of  God  who 
have  been  called  to  take  part  in 
those  meetings,  for  there  is  but  one 


.  McMURRIN.  103 

gospel.  We  have  all  been  baptized 
into  one  spirit.  We  all  have  the 
same  feeling  that  has  been  referred 
to  by  the  brethren,  a  feeling  of  ab- 
solute assurance  relative  to  the  truth 
of  the  work  that  God,  our  Father, 
has  planted  upon  the  earth  in  this 
the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of 
times.  There  is  no  doubt  in  our 
minds  regarding  it.  We  bear  testi- 
mony to  the  mission  of  the  Prophet 
Toseph  Smith,  and  declare  that  he 
in  answer  to  prayer,  had  a  vision  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  com- 
munication from  our  Father  in 
heaven,  concerning  the  fact  that  the 
time  had  come  that  had  been  spoken 
of  bv  the  holy  prophets ;  for  the  re- 
establishment  of  the  work  of  God 
in  the  latter  times. 

We  bear  that  testimony  because 
we  have  tested  the  work,  just  as 
was  taught  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
when  he  stood  upon  the  earth  and 
when  men  looked  upon  him  as  an 
imposter.  Thev  could  not  feel  that 
the  Messiah  who  had  been  spoken 
of  by  the  prophets,  wherein  thev 
had  oortraved  the  greatness  and 
pTandenr  of  his  mission  and  the 
work  that  he  was  to  accomplish, 
could  possiblv  be  the  lowlv  babe 
born  in  Bethlehem,  who  was  looked 
nnon  as  the  son  of  the  carpenter. 
Surely  he  could  not  be  the  Being 
that  had  claimed  the  attention  of  the 
prophets  from  the  beginnine  of 
time  down  to  that  period.  What 
rould  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  sav  to 
the  unbelieving  people  relative  to 
his  calling?  Onlv,  "My  doctrine  is 
not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me.  If 
anv  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be 
of  God.  or  whether  I  soeak  of  mv- 
self."  So  taught  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world,  this  was  the  manner  of 
test  that  he  offered  to  the  children 
of  men.  that   they    might  know 


104 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 


whether   he    was  an  imposter,  or 
whether  he  was  in  very  deed,  the 
.  Savior    and    Redeemer    that  the 
prophets  had  sung"  about  in  all  ages. 

In  the  remtroduction  of  the  gos- 
pel of  the  Son  of  God  in  this  last 
dispensation,  by  the  commandment 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  the  same 
test  has  been  placed  in  the  hands  of 
men,  that  is,  if  this  work  that  has 
been  revealed  from  on  high  be  the 
work  of  God,  it  is  the  right  of  men 
to  know  concerning  the  work,  for 
God  is  no  respecter  of  persons,  and 
if  men  could  know  concerning  the 
ministry  and  work  and  authority  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  by  the  testing 
of  the  doctrines,  through  an  accept- 
ance of  the  truth  he  expounded,  it 
is  the  right  of  men  in  this  dispensa- 
tion to  know  concerning-  the  revela- 
tion of  God  our  Heavenly  Father  in 
the  same  manner.  It  is  because  men 
have  tested  the  promise  that  has 
been  made  in  our  own  age,  that  they 
bear  testimony  concerning  the  work 
of  God,  and  declare  without  a  sem- 
blance of  doubt,  that  they  know 
that  this  work  to  which  they  have 
given  their  allegiance  is  the  work 
of  God,  that  the  gospel  they  are 
teaching  is  the  very  same  gospel 
that  was  taught  by  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world — not  a  new  gospel,  but 
the  old  gospel,  for  there  is  but  one 
gospel.  We  should  understand  that. 
All  men  should  understand  it.  It 
has  been  .declared  by  one  of  the  in- 
spired apostles,  "I  marvel  that  ye 
are  so  soon  removed  from  him  that 
called  you  into  the  grace  of  Christ 
unto  another  gospel ;  which  is  not 
another ;  but  there  be  some  that 
trouble  you.  and  would  pervert  the 
gospel  of  Christ.  But  though  we, 
or  an  angel  from  heaven,  preach 
any  other  gospel  unto  you  than  that 
which  we  have  preached  unto  you, 
let  him  be  accursed."    This  was  the 


doctrine  of  the  apostle  as  he  wrote 
by  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty ; 
the  .scriptures  abundantly  teach  that 
there  is  but  one  gospel.  This  is  one 
of  the  evidences  of  the  truth  of  the 
work  of  God  concerning  which  we 
testify,  for  we  say  today  as  the 
apostle  said,  there  is  but  one  way 
of  being  saved,  Jesus  our  Lord  is 
the  only  Being  through  whom  sal- 
vation can  come,  and  there  is  no 
other  name  under  heaven  whereby 
man  can  be  saved,  only  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

But  men  are  saved,  if  Jesus  Christ 
be  true,  by  an  acceptance  of  his  gos- 
pel. So  taught  one  of  the  apostles 
as  he  was  lit  up  by  the  inspiration 
of  heaven,  when  he  declared,  "For 
I  am  not  ashamed  of  the  gospel  of 
Christ ;  for  it  is  the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation."  The  gospel  of 
Christ  is  the  power  of  salvation,  and 
for  that  gospel  we  contend,  because 
we  know  the  truth  of  it.  We  bear 
record  of  this  truth  and  ask  men 
everywhere,  "Why  should  not  God 
the  Father  reveal  himself  in  this  age 
of  the  world  as  he  has  revealed  him- 
self in  former  ages?  It  is  the  doc- 
trine of  our  Father,  as  taught  by 
the  holy  prophets,  and  as  taught 
also  by  the  Son  of  God,  and  as 
taught  in  much  plainness  by  his 
apostles,  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
is  the  same  yesterday,  today,  and 
forever,  he  is  without  the  shadow 
of  turning,  his  gospel  is  an  everlast- 
ing gospel,  not  a  gospel  in  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  meridian  of  times 
for  the  people  of  that  period,  and 
then  a  changed  gospel  in  the  latter 
times  for  the  people  who  live  now. 
But  it  has  always  been  the  same 
gospel. 

It  was  this  very  gospel  that  has 
been  revealed  through  the  great 
prophet  of  the  latter-days,  and  that 
we  advocate  today,  that  our  father 


Elder  Joseph  tv.  McMurrin. 


105 


Adam  received,  and  that  he  taught 
to  his  sons  and  daughters  in  the 
Garden  of  Eden.  When  the  angel 
asked  why  Adam  did  certain  things 
he  could  only  answer,  "I  know  not, 
save  the  Lord  commanded  me." 
And  God  revealed  his  plan  of  salva- 
tion to  our  father  Adam  in  the  be- 
ginning, and  taught  to  our  father 
Adam  in  the  Garden  of  Eden  the 
mission  of  the  .Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  commanded  him  to  teach  his 
children  concerning  the  mission  of 
the  Redeemer,  that  they  might 
know  they  were  to  obtain  eternal 
life  in  the  presence  of  God  by  obe- 
dience to  the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel that  have  been  advocated  by  our 
brethren  in  this  congreagtion  this 
afternoon.  And  by  that  revelation 
of  our  Father  concerning  the  mis- 
sion of  Jesus  Christ,  the  fact,  that 
the  Son  of  the  living  God  who  gave 
his  life  for  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man family,  has  been  spread  among 
all  nations  in  every  land  ;  and  we 
are  told  that  no  matter  how  ignorant 
men  may.  be,  or  how  they  have 
fallen  away  from  the  truth  that  was 
revealed  in  the  beginning,  that  in 
some  form  men  everywhere  still 
have  some  conception,  however 
clouded  it  may  be,  concerning  the 
mission  of  the  Son  of  God  and  sal- 
vation coming  to  the  children  of 
men  by  the  giving  of  the  life  of  a 
God. 

I  thank  God  for  the  gospel.  I 
thank  God  for  the  disposition  work- 
ing in  me  to  honor  the  holy  priest- 
hood. You  who  have  been  present 
in  the  meetings  of  this  general  con- 
ference have  discovered  the  spon- 
taneous feeling  that  ran  from  heart 
to  heart  at  the  appearance  of  the 
President  of  the  Church,  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  (who  has  been 
very  sick  for  several  months),  when 
the  great  assemblage  rose  to  their 


feet.  I  was  glad  to  stand  upon  my 
feet  to  do  honor  to  the  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  love  the  man, 
I  love  him  because  of  the  wonder- 
ful example  he  has  been  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  I  love  him  because  of 
the  uprightness  of  his  life,  his  hon- 
esty, his  integrity,  his  unflinching 
testimony  concerning  the  truth,  be- 
cause of  the  giving  of  the  very  best 
that  there  has  been  in  him  during 
his  whole  life,  for  the  advancement 
of  the  work  of  God.  But  above  all 
that,  we  stand  up  in  honor  of  the 
President  because  of  the  priesthood 
and  presidency  that  has  been  con- 
ferred upon  him  as  the  mouthpiece 
of  God,  and  as  the  man  holding  the 
keys  of  authority  pertaining  to  this 
dispensation  at  the  present  time. 

I  attended  some  years  ago  in  the- 
Temple  in  Salt  Lake  City  a  gather- 
ing in  honor  of  President  Lorenzo 
Snow,  and  there  saw  a  banner 
stretched  across  a  part  of  the  chapel 
in  the  annex  of  the  Temple,  upon 
which  was  written,  "We  delight  to 
honor  the  man  whom  God  hath  hon- 
ored." I  would  like  you  to  think  of 
that,  both  young  and  old.  Who 
could  do  better  than  to  honor  the 
man  that  God  has  honored?  We 
are  not  worshiping  men,  we  are  not 
looking  upon  the  President  of  the 
Church  as  some  superior  being  to 
all  other  beings,  but  we  see  in  him 
the  authority  that  has  been  con- 
ferred upon  him  by  the  Lord  our 
God,  and  we  recognize  and  honor 
that  authority.  When  we  speak  of 
earthly  things,  there  is  no  trouble  to 
honor  authority.  If  the  President 
of  the  United  States  were  to  make 
his  appearance  in  a  gathering  of 
people  anywhere  in  America,  or  for 
that  matter  anywhere  in  the  wide 
world,  men  would  stand  up  in  his 
honor — not  in  honor  of  Woodrow 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Wilson,  the  man,  but  in  honor  of  the 
President  of  the  United  States.  We 
can  all  understand  that,  we  can  all 
see  the  propriety  of  such  an  act,  and 
we  can  all  heartily  approve  of  men 
showing  to  one  of  their  fellows  just 
such  honor.  And  yet  there  are  men 
who  would  attempt  to  question  and 
condemn  their  fellows  if  they  stand 
up  in  honor  of  the  mouthpiece  of 
the  living  God.  We,  however,  de- 
light to  honor  him. 

I  am  told  that  these  words  to 
which  I  have  referred,  that  were 
painted  upon  the  banner  in  honor 
of  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  did  not 
originate  at  that  time,  but  a  long 
time  before.  Dr.  Bernhisel,  who 
was  our  first  representative  in  the 
halls  of  Congress  from  the  territory 
of  Utah,  away  back  in  Nauvoo,  in 
the  early  days  of  the  Church,  when 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  would 
enter  a  room  where  Dr.  Bernhisel 
was  sitting,  the  doctor  would  rise 
to  his  feet,  and  remain  standing 
until  the  prophet  himself  took  a 
seat ;  the  prophet,  it  is  ,said,  was  em- 
barrassed at  this  mark  of  defer- 
ence, and  remonstrated  with  Dr. 
Bernhisel,  who  was  a  man  of  supe- 
rior education.  Such  pronounced 
deference  was  not  sought  by  Joseph 
Smith.  It  made  him  feel  uncom- 
fortable. But  when  he  remon- 
strated, Dr.  Bernhisel  said,  "I  de- 
light to  honor  the  man  whom  God 
hath  honored."  Do  you  know,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  there  has  been 
a  disposition  in  my  soul  to  honor 
Dr.  Bernhisel  from  the  moment  I 
first  learned  of  his  making  that 
declaration,  of  which  I  never  could 
have  been  possessed,  had  I  not 
heard  the  story. 

We  honor  the  authority  of  God. 
It  is  a  safe  thing  to  honor  such  au- 
thority. Read  the  Holy  Scriptures, 
and  you  will  discover  that  God  has 


vindicated  his  authority  in  all  dis- 
pensations. Our  Father  in  heaven 
has  blessed  men  who  have  respected 
the  authority  he  has  conferred  upon 
men  in  every  age.  You  can  also 
read  of  the  distress  and  trouble, 
and  even  death,  that  has  come  upon 
men  in  past  ages  who  have  dared  to 
speak  slightingly  of  God's  author- 
ity. While  men  do  not  lose  their 
lives  today  if  they  speak  in  con- 
tempt of  God's  authority,  while 
they  can  sneer  at  his  authority,  and 
they  can  trample  under  foot  the 
counsel  God  gives  through  author- 
ity to  the  people,  I  desire  to  say 
that  the  authority  of  God,  in  the 
eyes  of  God,  is  just  as  sacred  today 
as  it  ever  has  been  in  any  past  dis- 
pensation. And  just  as  our  Heav- 
enly Father  has  .delighted  to  bless 
men  in  past  ages,  who  have  honored 
the  authority  that  God  has  given  to 
weak  men,  so  he  will  delight  to 
bless  men  in  this  dispensation  who 
will  honor  that  authority.  And  I 
plead  with  this  congregation,  that 
men  and  women,  that  boys  and 
girls,  cultivate  a  disposition  to  hon- 
or the  authority  that  God  has 
placed  upon  men ;  and  God  will 
honor  you,  and  he  will  bless  you, 
and  will  reveal  unto  you  the  truth, 
more  perfectly,  continually,  of  his 
great  work  that  he  has  established 
for  the  salvation  of  the  human 
family. 

Without  authority,  what  can  be 
accomplished?  Our  Elder  Brother, 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  commission- 
ed men  in  his  time  to  preach  the 
everlasting  gospel.  It  could  not 
have  been  preached  without  that 
authority.  Men  have  forgotten  the 
necessity  of  such  divine  commission 
in  the  age  in  which  we  live,  but  the 
necessity  exists  just  the  same.  It 
is  just  as  needful  today  for  men  to 
be  properly  commissioned  in  order 


ELDER  JOSEPH  W.  McMURRIK. 


107 


to  preach  the  gospel  acceptably,  and 
to  administer  properly  in  the  ordi- 
nances of  the  gospel,  as  in  any 
other  age,  and  no  man  can  minis- 
ter, mark  you,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  have  his 
ministry  sanctified,  and  approved 
by  our  Father  in  heaven,  unless  he 
be  called  of  God  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel. I  cannot  call  myself.  That  is 
the  doctrine  of  the  world,  that  men 
can  feel  within  themselves,  "Why, 
I  am  called  to  cry  repentance  among 
the  people."  That  is  not  true,  that 
is  the  plan  of  the  adversary,  to  blind 
the  eyes  of  the  human  race,  that 
they  may  be  led  carefully  away  to 
destruction. -Many  men  delude  them- 
selves with  the  thought  that  they 
are  called  without  having  been  or- 
dained and  .designated  by  the  voice 
of  the  living  God.  What  saith  the 
Scripture?  "No  man  taketh  this 
honor  unto  himself,  but  he  that  is 
called  of  God  as  was  Aaron."  So 
the  inspired  apostle  hath  written, 
and  so  teaches  "Mormonism."  This 
is  the  doctrine  pertaining  to  au- 
thority as  it  was  taught  by  the  apos- 
tles in  the  meridian  of  time.  The 
salfsame  doctrine  is  taught  by  the 
apostles  of  today.  Divine  authority 
cannot  be  assumed  by  any  human 
being,  without  calling  down  the  dis- 
pleasure of  the  Lord. 

When  we  consider  earthly  au- 
thority, we  understand  the  question 
most  readily.  There  is  nobody  in 
this  congregation  who  imagines 
that  any  man  in  this  land  can  feel 
in  his  heart,  "I  have  been  called  to 
be  a  judge  in  the  State  of  Utah,  I 
have  that  feeling  within  me."  Why, 
even  the  little  boys  and  girls  would 
understand,  if  a  man  set  forth  that 
sort  of  claim,  and  sought  to  main- 
tain it,  that  there  was  something 
wrong  with  him  mentally.  Judges 
are  not  appointed  by  having  a  call 


that  comes  from  within  the  indi- 
vidual. A  man  cannot  even  be  a 
city  policeman,  or  a  country  con- 
stable by  any  such  feeling  taking 
possession  of  his  mind.  .  He  must 
be  appointed  by  proper  authority, 
the  authority  that  has  its  founda- 
tion in  the  people.  We  have  desig- 
nated how  all  these  various  posi- 
tions shall  be  filled,  and  for  any 
man  to  imagine  that  he  can  fill  even 
the  humblest  of  these  callings  with- 
out being  appointed  according  to 
the  law  of  the  land,  is  but  an  indi- 
cation of  unusual  weakness  in  his 
intellectual  powers. 

When  we  come  to  the  things  of 
God,  men  seem  not  able  to  compre- 
hend so  readily  the  need  of  divine 
authority.  Some  feel  that  it  is  all 
right  for  men  to  say  within  them- 
selves, that  they  are  called  to  min- 
ister in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
that  revelation  and  ordination  -ior 
the  conferring  of  authority  is  non- 
essential. But  the  doctrine  of  the 
gospel  is,  "Ye  have  not  chosen  me, 
["the  precious  words  of  Jesus 
Christ],  but  I  have  chosen  you,  and 
ordained  you,  that  ye  should  go  and 
bring  fruit,  *  *  *  that  what- 
soever ye  shall  ask  of  the  Father  in 
my  name,  he  may  give  it  you." 
Bible  students,  is  not  this  the  doc- 
trine of  the  ancient  apostles?  In 
absolute  harmony  with  this  is  the 
doctrine  of  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  who  has  declared  to  us  that 
John,  the  forerunner  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  made  his  appearance, 
and  laid  his  hands  upon  Joseph 
Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  and 
said,  "Upon  you,  my  fellow  ser- 
vants, in  the  name  of  Messiah,  I 
confer  the  Priesthood  of  Aaron, 
which  holds  the  keys  of  the  minis- 
tering of  angels,  and  of  the  gospel 
of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by 
immersion  for   the    remission  of 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sins ;  and  this  shall  never  be  taken 
again  from  the  earth,  until  the  sons 
of  Levi  do  offer  again  an  offering 
unto  the  Lord  in  righteousness." 

Such  is.  a  foundation  stone  of 
"Mormonism."  An  angel  from  on 
high,  commissioned  by  the  author 
of  the  everlasting  gospel,  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  laying  his  hands  upon 
the  head  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  and 
conferring  upon  him  authority.  It 
is  a  bedrock  stone,  it  cannot  be 
overturned.  It  has  withstood  the  on- 
slaughts that  have  been  made  in  the 
past.  No  weak  place  has  been  found 
in  this  story  of  "Mormnoism," 
concerning  the  restoration  of  divine 
authority.  When  we  speak  of  the 
coming  of  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
when  we  speak  of  the  coming  of 
John  the  Baptist,  the  forerunner  of 
the  Redeemer,  the  being  who  was 
honored  with  the  high  privilege  of 
baptizing  the  Son  of  God,  when  we 
speak  of  Peter,  James,  and  John, 
who  came  restoring  the  keys  of  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood — the  men 
upon  whom  that  Melchizedek 
Priesthood  was  bestowed  by  the 
Son  of  God — each  restoring  the  au- 
thority they  held  in  mortality,  it  is 
a  story  of  strength,  that  has  never 
been  overcome,  and  there  has  never 
been  any  faulty  place  found  in  it ; 
and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  with  the  re- 
storation of  this  authority  that  we 
honor,  has  come  the  promise  of  the 
living  God  that  the  work  established 
under  the  direction  and  by  the  au- 
thority of  this  Priesthood  now  re- 
stored, shall  endure  forever  and 
forever.  That  is  the  promise  of 
God.  It  shall  not  be  uprooted,  it 
shall  not  be  broken  to  pieces,  it 
shall  not  come  to  naught,  but  it 
shall  endure.  These  men  so  testify, 
I  so  testify,  thank  God  with  all  my 
soul,  and  I  know  whereof  I  speak. 


I  thought  when  we  started  our 
meeting  in  the  open  air,  of  a  time 
long  ago  in  Scotland,  when  1  stood 
out  in  the  open  field,  a  boy  mission- 
ary, with  some  tremblings  and  with 
some  little  fear  and  doubt  in  my 
mind ;  although  born  in  the  Church, 
and  taught  the  principles  of  the 
gospel ;  when  I  came  to  minister  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  when  I 
was  far  away  from  father  and 
mother,  far  away  from  my  country 
and  people,  then  there  was  a  cry 
went  out  from  my  soul,  "Am  I  a 
servant  of  Jesus  Christ?  Have  I 
authority  to  minister  in  the  name 
of  the  Redeemer  of  the  world?" 
That  thought  came  to  me,  and  that 
cry  of  anxiety  was  in  my  soul,  until 
God  in  his  kindness  and  mercy,  and 
in  fulfilment  of  his  promise,  because 
I  was  anxious  to  know  the  truth,  I 
was  anxious  to  do  my  duty  and  to 
preach  the  gospel,  revealed  to  me 
by  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  the 
truth  of  this  gospel ;  and  the  hap- 
piest moments  I  have  ever  known  in 
my  life,  the  happiest  moments  I 
ever  expect  to  experience  in  the  fu- 
ture of  my  life,  have  been  and  will 
be  when  T  bear  record  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  that 
Toseph  Smith  was  called  of  God  to 
be  a  prophet,  and  was  ordained  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  commanded  to  organize  this 
Church  to  which  we  have  given  our 
allegiance. 

No  wonder  we  honor  authority, 
even  the  authority  of  God,  and  we 
honor  every  other  proper  authority, 
the  authority  in  every  land ;  be- 
cause it  is  an  article  of  our  faith 
that  we  "believe  in  being  subject  to 
kings,  presidents,  rulers,  and  mag- 
istrates, in  obeying,  honoring,  and 
sustaining  the  law,"  wherever  we 
may  reside.  We  have  honor  for  all 
authority,  honor  for  the  President 


ELDER  JOSEPH  U 


McMURRIN . 


109 


of  the  United  States,  love  for  Amer- 
ica.   Why,  I  wear  a  little  button 
here  myself,  for  two  stalwart  sons 
who  are  in  the  service  of  the  United 
States.    Of  course  it  wrenches  the 
heart  when  they  say  good-bye.  It 
wrenches  the  heart  when  they  write 
that"  ?    No,  we  cannot  say  it,  we 
job  we  have  in  hand,  but  we  expect 
to  do  our  'duty,  like  men,  be  the  cost 
what  it  may."    Do  you  think  we 
can  call  them  back,  do  you  think  we 
can  say,  "O,  son,  you  are  not  to  do 
that?"    No,  we  cannot  say  it,  we 
can  only  say,  "Go  forward,  my  boy, 
in  the  accomplishment  of  duty ;  con- 
secrate your  life  to  the  performance 
of  the  labor  asked  of  you,  even  tn 
the  laying;  down   of   your  life,  if 
need  be,  for  what  God  hath  wrought 
in  the  establishment  of  this  great 
Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America,  must  be  maintained,  God 
having  declared  that  he  raised  up 
wise  men  and    inspired    them  to 
write  the  Constitution  of  our  Coun- 
try, and  to  make  firm  and  steadfast 
and  sure,  the  Constitution  of  Amer- 
ica, and  extend  Liberty  at  last  to 
every  land  and  every  people  in  the 
world.      God  himself  has  so  said, 
and  it  is  right  and  pleasing  in  his 
sight  that  all  men  shall  enjoy  the 
same  libertv.    It  is  for  that  we  give 
our  sons,  that  they  mav  not  only 
Uiohold  and  sustain  the  institutions 
of  our  Country,  but  also  establish 
the  decree  of  God,  and  bring  the 
blessings  of  the  land  to  every  na- 
tion under  heaven. 

I  bear  reroH  of  the  truth.  I 
know  of  what  I  speak.  I  d;d  not 
obtain  it  from  the  teaching  of  father 
and  mother,  although,  thank  God,  1 
had  a  good  father  and  mother,  who 
believed  the  truth  and  who  loved 
the  truth.  But  when  I  bore  record 
concerning  the  truth  of  this  gospel. 


I  had  to  obtain  that  knowledge  in 
the  same  way  that  father  and  moth  - 
er  obtained  it  before  me,  by  ser- 
vice, by  giving  my  heart  to  God. 
There  is  no  other  way.    Father  and 
mother  could  not  give  me  the  testi- 
mony and  knowledge,  let  them  love 
ic  ever  so  dearly,  let  them  try  ever 
so  hard,  they  could  only  point  out 
the  way  in  which  I  should  walk.  In 
that  path  I  myself  finally  came  to 
a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  revealed 
to  me  by  the  Lord  God,  just  as  it 
had  been  revealed  to  my  parents  be- 
fore me.    The  same  thing  is  true 
todav.    I  cannot  give  a  knowledge 
of  this  gospel  to  my  own  sons  and 
daughters.    T  can  only  sav  to  them, 
This  work  is  not  my  work,  but  His 
who  has  called  me  to  minister  there- 
in. If  ve  will  do  his  will  and  test 
these  ordinances  and  principles  of 
the  jrospel,  von  shall  be  brought  to 
an  understanding  of   the  truth  by 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  know  from  the  crown  of  your 
head  to  the  soles  of  vour  feet,  that 
God  has  sooken  and  has  established 
this  work  in  which  we  are  laboring. 

God  help  us  to  love  it  forever  and 
forever,  to  maintain  its  principles, 
to  uphold  its  authority,  and  to  cul- 
tivate the  disposition,  every  one  of 
us,  to  say,  not  only  when  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  makes  his  ap- 
nearance,  but  to  sav  to  all  authority, 
in  the  wards,  and  in  the  stakes,  and 
in  the  miss:ons,  "I  delisrht  to  honor 
the  man  whom  God  hath  honored." 
I  humblv  prav  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  conpre°"ation  sang:  "Do 
What  is  Right." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  bv 
Elder  Hugh  S.  Geddes,  president  of 
the  Oneida  Stake  of  Zion. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


SECOND  OVERFLOW 
[MEETING. 

A  second  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  at  2 
o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  October  6, 
Elder  Anthony  W.  Ivins,  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  presiding. 

Singing'  and  music  were  fur- 
nished by  the  LeGrande  ward  choir 
under  the  direction  of  H.  E.  Dews- 
nup,  chorister. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"The  spirit  of  God  like  a  fire  is 
burning." 

Elder  Rodney  C.  Badger  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  choir  sang:  "The  Pilgrim 
Chorus." 

The  general  authorities  of  the 
Church  were  presented  by  Elder 
Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  unani- 
mously voted  upon  and  sustained  as 
at  the  closing  meeting  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS 

While  I  am  on  my  feet,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to 
call  attention  to  the  fact  that,  at 
the  coming  election,  which  will 
soon  be  held  in  this  state,  there 
will  be  presented  to  you  for  your 
vote,  either  for  or  against,  an 
amendment  to  the  constitution  of 
the  State  of  Utah  providing  for  per- 
petual prohibition  in  this  state.  We 
already  have  laws  prohibiting  the 
manufacture  or  sale  of  intoxicating 
liquors  in  the  state,  which  were 
enacted  by  the  last  legislature. 
There  was  also  passed  by  the  last 
legislature  a  resolution  which  is  to 
be  referred  to  the  people  amend- 
ing the  constitution  of  the  State,  so 
that  prohibition  will  become  per- 


petual unless  the  ,state  constitution 
shall  be  again  amended. 

I  do  not  think  it  necessary  to  en- 
ter into  any  argument  at  all  to  con- 
vince you  of  the  action  that  ought 
to  be  taken  by  Latter-day  Saints  on 
this  measure.  We  are  only  just 
now  beginning  to  appreciate  the 
benefits  that  have  come  to  us 
through  the  abolition  of  this  obnox- 
ious business,  and  we  trust  and  ex- 
pect, in  order  that  we  may  be  in 
harmony  with  this  nation,  with  its 
executive  who  calls  our  attention 
to  the  fact  that  the  use  of  intoxi- 
cating liquors  ought  to  be  and  must 
be  prohibited  in  the  nation,  and  the 
fact  that  all  civilized  nations  in  the 
world  which  have  engaged  in  the 
great  strug'gle  that  is  now  on,  so 
far  as  I  am  able  to  learn,  have 
placed  themselves  on  record  in  op- 
position to  the  use  of  intoxicants. 
And  so  we  want  you  to  carefully 
consider  this  question,  to  think  of 
it,  and  if  you  want  a  dry  state  to 
vote  for  that  amendment  to  the  con- 
stitution. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  my 
brethren  and  .sisters,  and  his  Spirit 
be  with  you  while  we  shall  contin- 
ue the  service  this  afternoon,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  WM.  H.  MENDENHALL. 

(President  of  the  Bannock  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

To  begin  with,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  desire  to  commend  to  you 
the  advice  of  Brother  Ivins  in  re- 
lation to  the  constitutional  amend- 
ment, prohibiting  the  manufacture 
and  sale  of  liquor  in  the  State  of 
L^tah.  We  have  that  amendment 
on  the  .statute  books  of  the  state  of 
Idaho,  and  we  would  like  to  see  the 
time  when  every  adjoining  state 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  MENDENHALL. 


Ill 


shall  adopt  the  same  constitutional 
amendment. 

In  Idaho  we  have  tried  two  forms 
of  prohibition.  In  the  county  from 
which  I  come  we  have  had  prohibi- 
tion for  a  number  of  years.  The 
county  seat  of  our  county  is  Poca- 
tello.  I  remember  in  our  campaign 
against  the  traffic  in  liquor  that  the 
whisky  men  tokl  us  that  if  we 
adopted  the  prohibition  measure, 
the  grass  would  grow  up  in  the 
streets  of  Pocatello,  business  would 
be  stagnant,  and  ruin  would  come 
to  that  city.  And  now  after  a  num- 
ber of  years  of  prohibition  in  Idaho, 
I  am  proud  to  say  .to  you  that  Poca- 
tello is  the  most  prosperous  city  in 
the  state,  and  instead  of  grass 
growing  in  the  streets,  the  bu;H- 
ings  that  were  used  for  the  traffic 
of  liquor  have  been  transformed 
into  buildings  used  for  other  pur- 
noses,  the  streets  and  the  sidewalks 
have  been  paved,  and  the  city  as  a 
whole  shows  marked  improvement 
over  the  conditions  that  existed  in 
the  days  when  liquor  was  trans- 
norted  and  dealt  out  to  the  people 
in  lour  county.  So,  from  the  ex- 
perience that  we  have  had  I  des:rc 
to  recommend  to  the  people  of  the 

tat-  of  Utah  the  adoption  of  the 
constitutional  amendment  forever 
rrohibitm0'  the  manufacture  and 
cale  of  Honor  in  the  state  of  Utah. 
T  am  verv  grateful,  my  brethren 
sisters,  for  the  opportunity  that 
T  have  of  being  present  at  this  con- 
ference. I  rejoice  in  the  testimony 
of  my  brethren.  I  rejoice  in  the 
instructxn  and  the  counsel  given  by 
the  presiding  authorities  of  the 
Church.  And  our  service  does  not 
end.  my  brethren  and  sisters,  at  the 
dismissal  of  this  meeting.  But  we 
who  have  been  in  attendance  at  the 

<=e^sions  of  this  conference  have  a 


duty  to  perform  after  we  have  gone 
home  from  this  conference  of  the 
Church.  It  becomes  our  duty  to 
adopt  in  our  homes  the  teachings, 
and  instructions  given  by  our  breth- 
ren. It  becomes  our  duty  to  dis- 
seminate the  principles  of  the  gos- 
pel in  our  wards,  as  they  have  been 
made  clear  to  us,  among  our  friends 
and  our  brethren  and  sisters  wher- 
ever we  may  go,  that  all  may  have 
the  privilege  of  enjoying  the  bless- 
ings of  this  great  conference  of  the 
Church.  All  men  and  women  in  the 
Church  have  a  right  to  know  what 
the  Lord  expects  of  them.  The  Lord 
has  said,  "If  any  lack  wisdom,  let 
him  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  to  all 
men  liberally  and  upbraideth  not." 
And  the  Lord  Jesus  said  upon  one 
occasion :  "Ask  and  ye  shall  re- 
ceive, knock  and  it  shall  be  opened 
unto  you."  The  privilege  of 
knowing  our  standing  before  the 
Lord,  and  what  the  Lord  expects*  of 
us  as  members  of  the  Church,  is 
within  our  right,  and  we  have  a 
right  to  go  before  the  Lord  and  ask 
him,  and  receive  from  him  inspira- 
tion and  revelation  pertaining  to 
our  own  selves  and  the  work  that 
we  should  perform  as  members  of 
the  Church. 

Every  blessing  is  predicated  upon 
law,  and  in  order  for  us  to  enjoy 
the  blessings  of  the  gospel,  we  must 
obey  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord.  If  we  desire  a  blessing  at 
the  hands  of  the  Lord,  it  becomes 
our  duty  to  ask  for  it.  In  that  con- 
nection, let  me  say  that  the  Latter- 
dav  Saints  should  observe  their  se- 
cret pravers.  Latter-dav  Samts 
should  call  their  families  together 
in  the  time  and  season  thereof,  and 
nour  out  their  souls  unto  the  Lor  1 
that  thev  mav  ^e  in  communion 
with  the  Holy  Spirit  and  be  direct- 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ed  in  their  labors  to  do  the  things 
that  the  Lord  requires  at  their 
hands. 

It  is  not  the  rule  that  the  Lord 
shall  come  to  us  and  bless  us  with 
blessing's  that  we  need,  without  our 
asking.  In  reviewing  the  history 
of  the  Church,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith,  in  the  beginning,  when  his 
mind  was  wrought  up  as  to  which 
of  all  the  religious  organizations  of 
the  world  was  right,  and  while  he 
was  pondering  in  his  own  mind,  the 
Lord  did  not  come  to  him  and  say 
that  none  of  them  are  right.  He 
went  out  into  the  woods  alone,  and 
poured  out  his  soul  to  God  to  find 
out  which  of  all  the  religious  or- 
ganizations was  right.  Then  the 
answer  came  to  him  in  the  visita- 
tion of  the  Father  and  the  Son.  The 
Father,  pointing  to  the  Son,  said  to 
the  Prophet  boy,  "This  is  my  be- 
loved Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased ;  hear  ye  him."  Then  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  to  Joseph  was  that 
none  of  the  organizations  was  ac- 
ceptable to  him,  and  that  he  should 
wait,  apart  from  any  organization, 
and  in  the  due  time  of  the  Lord  he 
should  be  the  instrument  in  bring- 
ing about  God's  purposes.  Later  on, 
when  the  Prophet  desired  to  learn 
his  standing  before  the  Lord,  pon- 
dering upon  this  question  while 
lying  upon  his  bed,  an  angel  of  the 
Lord  appeared  to  him.  Then  the 
angel  Moroni  reconciled  the  Proph- 
et boy  by  saying  that  his  labors,  his 
acts,  were  acceptable  before  the 
Lord,  and  that  he  was  in  good 
standing,  hrvine  repented  of  his 
shortcomings,  before  our  Father  in 
heaven.  Then  he  rehearsed  the 
ctorv  of  rhQ  whereabouts  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  or  the  plates 
f^orr  which  :t  was  afterward  trans- 
lated by  him.  and  what  the  mission 
of  the  prophet  should  be  in  relation 


thereto.  Later  on,  during  the  trans- 
lation of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Prophet  and  Oliver  Cowdery  en- 
countered some  problem  in  refer- 
ence to  baptism  for  the  remission  of 
sins,  as  recorded  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  desired  to  know  what 
was  meant  in  relation  to  the  subject 
of  baptism  by  immersion.  I  pre- 
sume they  consulted  one  with  an- 
other, and  talked  about  this  matter 
of  baptism,  but  the  Lord  did  not 
come  and  say,  This  is  the  proper 
mode  of  baptism ;  but  we  find  that 
Joseph  and  Oliver  went  out  and 
prayed  to  the  Lord  relative  to  the 
subject,  and  while  in  the  attitude  of 
supplicating  the  Lord  upon  this 
question,  John  the  Baptist  appeared 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and 
Oliver  Cowderv,  and  laid  his  hands 
upon  their  heads  and  ordained  them 
to  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  com- 
manded them  to  ordain  each  other, 
and  also  commanded  that  they 
should  baptize  each  other. 

So  also,  when  any  principle  or 
ordinance  of  the  gospel,  or  any  laws 
of  the  Church,  have  been  given  in 
this  dispensation,  the  brethren  who 
stand  at  the  head  and  have  the  right 
to  receive  these  revelations  have 
Qove  to  the  Lord  in  secret  prayer, 
and  the  Lord  has  come  to  them  and 
revealed  his  mind  and  will  upon 
these  matters. 

When  the  question  of  tithing 
came  up  in  the  early  historv  of  the 
Church,  the  Proohet  Joseph  went 
to  the  Lord,  and  said:  "O  Lord, 
show  unto  ns,  thv  servants,  what 
tbrn  rentiirest  of  this  people  as  a 
t;thinp\"  Then  the  word  of  the 
Lord  came  to  the  Prophet  Joseoh. 
that  all  of  the  surplus  property  of 
the  people  should  be  turned  in  as  a 
tithmsr  of  the  peoole.  and  after  that 
one-tenth  of  all  their  interests 
should  be  given  to  the  Church  for 


ELDER  JOSEPH  REECE. 


113 


the  upbuilding  of  Zion  upon  the 
earth. 

So  that  is  the  example  set  for  us. 
While  we  have  not  the  right  to  re- 
ceive revelations  and  visions  for  the 
Church,  as  has  been  explained  in 
the  discourses  of  our  brethren,  yet 
every  member  of  the  Church, 
whether  he  be  young  or  old  has  a 
right  to  know  his  or  her  standing 
before  the  Lord,  has  a  right  to  en- 
joy the  testimony  and  the  divine  in- 
fluence of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord, 
has  a  right  to  receive  revelation  per- 
taining to  himself  and  his  .duty  and 
ministry  in  the  Church  :  and  it  only 
comes  to  us  by  our  performance  of 
■rluty,  by  our  drawing  near  unto  the 
Lord,  as  in  the  history  of  the  organ- 
ization and  the  revelations  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  the  testimony  that  I  have 
of  the  gospel  of  the'  Lord  Jesus.  I 
know  it  is  true.  T  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  Lord, 
and  that  the  brethren  who  have  suc- 
ceeded him.  including  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  were  prophets, 
seers  and  revelators,  and  were  the 
right  men  in  the  right  place.  When 
T  heard  our  beloved  president  say 
in  his  opening  address  that  for  sev- 
enty years  he  had  devoted  his  time 
to  the  ministry,  to  the  work  of  the 
Lord,  to  the  spread  of  the  gospel  in 
many  lands  and  climes,  and  in  pre- 
siding among  the  brethren  and  sis- 
ters here  at  home.  T  honored  and 
respected  him.  When  I  thousrht  of 
the  blessings  we  have  enjoyed  here 
at  home,  and  of  the  wisdom  and  un- 
derstanding exhibited  in  his  life,  T 
am  certainlv  led  to  say  that  the  Lord 
certainly  blesses  his  servants.  If 
we  will  devote  our  time  and  our 
talents  to  the  ministry  and  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  the  snirit  of  the  go.s- 
pel.  and  the  establishment  of  truth 


and  righteousness  in  the  earth,  the 
Lord  will  continue  to  bless  us. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the 
Lord  has  again  spoken  from  heav- 
en, has  revealed  his  gospel,  organ- 
ized his  Church,  and  placed  therein 
every  blessing  and  gift  that  is  neces- 
sary for  tie  to  develop  and  grow 
and  become  like  our  Father  in 
heaven,  even  in  the  gospel  within 
the  Church.  It  is  an  individual 
work.  Every  man  must  save  him- 
self. True,  we  can  do  a  great  deal 
by  helping  one  another,  but  the  sal- 
vation, the  exaltation,  the  blessings 
that  we  obtain  hereafter  depend 
upon  ourselves,  upon  our  labors 
and  faithfulness  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Latter-day  Saints  every- 
where be  faithful  and  devoted  to  the 
cause  of  Christ.  We  have  been  told 
during  this  conference,  and  it  has 
been  pointed  out  to  us.  of  the  great 
responsibility  of  the  Church  in  re- 
lation to  this  great  world  war,  and 
I  trust  the  Latter-day  Samts  every- 
where will  prepare  themselves  to  do 
theu  full  duty  in  whatever  calling 
may  come  to  them.  This  is  my 
prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  REECE 

(President  of  the  Neho  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  the  Lord  will  bless  me 
noon  this  occasion,  that  I  may  be 
able  to  say  something  that  will  in- 
struct vou  who  have  come  here  to 
learn  the  ways  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  one  thought  in  my  mind 
at  present,  which  has  come  to  me 
wh'le  our  brother  has  been  speaking 
i"  relation  to  'the  organization  of 
this  Church.  While  he  was  enu- 
merating to  us  the  different  person- 


114 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


ages  whom  the  Lord  has  sent  from 
the  kingdom  above  to  restore  unto 
his  people  this  great  organization, 
this  great  Church  and  Kingdom  of 
God  in  which  we  are  members. 
When  we  refer  to  the  fact,  that  our 
kind  eternal  Father  and  his  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  of  man- 
kind, condescended  to  come  to  earth 
in  answer  to  prayer,  to  deliver  unto 
that  boy  the  message  which  was  es- 
sential at  that  time  in  order  to  pre- 
pare the  way  and  to  lav  the  founda- 
tion of  this  great  work, — when  we 
speak  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ 
whom  the  Father  introduced  on 
that  occasion  to  the  boy  Prophet  a.; 
his  Son,  "My  Only  Begotten  Son, 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased," — the 
question  comes  to  me,  who  was  that 
Son  ?  It  occurs  to  me  that  this  same 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Redeemer  and  the 
Son  of  God,  to  whom  the  Father 
introduced  the  boy,  was  the  same 
Jesus  Christ  who  lived  upon  the 
earth  during  the  meridian  of  time ; 
that  he  was  the  same  Christ  that 
was  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary.  He 
was  born  of  a  mortal  mother  and 
an  immortal  father.  He  lived  upon 
the  earth  for  a  short  period  of  time, 
for  about  33  years.  He  entered 
noon  his  ministry ;  he  organized  his 
Church  with  apostles,  and  evangel- 
ists and  so  on.  In  time  he  gave  up 
bis  life  for  the  sins  of  the  world, 
th?"c  all  the  children  of  our  Father 
•*n  h°aven  who  live  today,  and  who 
lived  at  the  time  of  the  Savior,  or 
"Tho  had  lived  noon  ;h°  earth  before 
his  dav,  or  shall  live  after  we  have 
passed  awav,  might  be  saved 
throusrh  obedience  to  his  laws.  He 
pave  un  his  life  as  a  ransom  for  us 
all.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
Savior  who  talked  with  Joseph 
Smith  the  bov  prophet  was  the  iden- 
tical Savior,  the  identical  Testis,  who 
was  born  of  the  Virgin  Mary,  who 


was  crucified  upon  Calvary's  hill, 
whose  body  was  laid  in  the  tomb, 
and  arose  from  the  tomb  on  the 
third  day  and  appeared  to  his 
friends  and  brethren.  That  identical 
Jesus  Christ  who  was  baptized  in 
Jordan,  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith 
and  gave  him  the  necessary  instruc- 
tion for  the  founding  of  his  Church 
in  our  day. 

Our  brother  referred  to  the  fact 
that  John  the  Baptist  had  appeared 
and  laid  his  hands  upon  Joseph  and 
Oliver,  conferring  upon  them  the 
priesthood  of  Aaron,  and  had  given 
them  instruction  as  to  how  to  go 
forth  and  labor  in  this  great  min- 
istry, and  how  to  organize  the 
Church  of  Christ.  Who  was  this 
John?  After  that  messenger  had 
delivered  his  message  to  the  prophet 
and  had  conferred  his  priesthood, 
he  said,  "My  name  is  John,  the 
same  who  is  called  John  the  Ba.n- 
tist  in  the  scriptures."  He  was  the 
same  man  who  baptized  our  Lord 
and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ,  in  the 
river  Jordan,  and  none  other. 

Who  were  Peter,  James  and  John 
who  laid  their  hands  upon  those 
two  men,  and  conferred  upon  them 
the  holv  Melchizedek  priesthood? 
Tt  was  the  same  Peter,  and  the  same 
Talipes,  and  the  same  John  who  were 
Wt  as  the  Presidency  of  the  Church 
bv  the  Savior  of  the  world  at  the 
time  he  ascended  to  heaven.  Thev 
held  the  same  authority,  and  con- 
ferred that  authority  noon  Joseph 
in  the  dav  in  which  we  live. 

Then  we  know  of  other  visita- 
tions. We  know  that  Moses  ap- 
nea red.  We  know  that  Eli  i  ah  ap- 
peared. We  know  that  Moroni  an- 
nearerl.  and  who  was  Moroni?  He 
was  the  identical  person  who  was 
entrusted  with  the  care  and  disposi- 
tion of  the  nlates,  the  records  from 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  were 


ELDER  JOSEPH  REECE. 


115 


taken,  and  the  identical  person  who 
placed  those  plates  in  a  secure  place, 
where  they  were  when  he  revealed 
them  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
And  it  was  his  .duty,  his  prerogative 
and  privilege  to  come  back  to  this 
earth  in  his  resurrected  form,  with 
that  same  body  and  that  same  per- 
son and  stature,  at  the  proper  time, 
and  to  the  proper  one.  These  are 
the  facts  that  have  been  passing 
through  my  mind  while  I  was  lis- 
tening to  the  discourse  of  my 
brother.  We  know  that  these  things 
are  true. 

We  know  of  a  surety  that  there 
will  be  a  resurrection  of  the  body  of 
every  child  of  God.  These  things 
are  not  a  mystery  to  us.  We  have 
been  blessed  with  the  revelation  of 
Gof1.  We  have  been  blessed  and  fav- 
ored witti  a  visitation  of  these  great 
men  who  have  come  in  their  resur- 
rected form,  and  restored  thes° 
things.  And  these  things  are  true, 
my  brethren  and  sisters.  There  is 
absolutelv  no  delusion  about  them. 
True?  Why,  of  course  they  are 
true.  How  could  they  be  other- 
wise? How  could  all  these  things 
have  transoired,  how  could  this 
Church  have  been  organized,  and 
how  could  it  have  attained  to  its 
present  standing  and  accomplish- 
ment? How  could  all  the  work 
that  is  beine  accomph'shed  by  this 
Church,  for  instance  the  establish- 
ment of  the  missions  that  have  been 
prooken  of.  to  carrv  this  truth  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth?  How  could 
all  this  be  carried  on  with  zeal  and 
that  same  attainment,  if  it  were  not 
true  ? 

Yon  and  T  would  have  faltered 
Irnp-  since  if  these  rhinp-s  had  been 
a  delusion.  But  these  things  ar° 
true  and  fa:tM11b  and  we  have  this 
I'"nw1e/Vp.  God  has  descended  to 
reveal  it  unto  us,  to  all  his  children. 


We  have  this  advantage  over  the 
children  of  the  world.  We  have 
been  willing  to  accept  of  these  pre- 
cious things,  and  the  Lord  has  been 
merciful  unto  us.  Through  the  di- 
rection of  his  Spirit  he  has  per- 
mitted and  enabled  our  leaders,  the 
men  whom  he  has  chosen,  to  estab- 
lish this  work.  Where  would  we 
have  been  if  it  had  not  been  for  this 
Church?  God  has  blessed  this  work 
and  prospered  it  till  it  has  grown  to 
the  proportions  which  it  has,  and 
all  these  things  have  been  brought 
about,  mv  brethren  and  sisters, 
through  the  obedience  of  his  people 
to  the  things  he  has  revealed  for 
their  abidance. 

All  these  things,  these  blessings, 
which  we  have  received,  have  been 
ordamed  of  God.  and  brought  about 
hv  his  power.  We  mav  go  out  into 
<he  world  to  preach  the  gospel  and 
t^ifv  to  the  nations  of  these  truths 
which  we  have  accepted,  but  we 
camot  force  them  to  accept  of  them. 
Tt  is  not  our  privilege  so  to  do. 
The  Lord  does  not  expect  it.  but  h^ 
has  commanded  that  we  carrv  this 
message  to  the  world .  that  we  use 
our  means  and  our  efforts  and  our 
talents  as  he  shall  bless  us  from 
time  to  time,  in  order  that  all  of  his 
children  who  live  upon  this  earth 
may  have  the  privilege  of  enjovin^ 
the  same  blessing  and  the  same 
testimony  and  the  same  knowledge 
of  things  that  we  as  a  people  en- 
jo  v. 

We  cannot  afford  to  falter,  my 
friends.  The  work  of  the  ministry 
is  great,  and  we  are  called  and  ap- 
pointed each  one  in  our  place  to 
perform  a  certain  labor.  Mv  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  let  us  attend  to  that. 
Let  us  see  to  it  that  we  are  found 
in  our  places,  that  we  are  perform- 
)n<y  (-fre  Work  that  the  Lord  has  de- 
signed, in  the  way  that  he  has  re- 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


vealed  for  his  servants  and  his 
handmaids  to  follow.  Let  us  see  to 
it  that  we  keep  the  commandments. 
Let  us  see  to  it  that  we  attend  to 
our  prayers.  Let  us  see  to  it  that 
we  attend  to  our  work  that  he  has 
called  us  to  perform.  Let  us  see  to 
it  that  we  attend  to  our  worship, 
that  we  partake  of  the  sacrament 
upon  the  Sabbath  day,  and  that  we 
do  all  things  that  will  have  a  tend- 
ency to  bring  us  together  and  to 
make  us  more  faithful  and  more 
appreciative  of  the  things  that  the 
Lord  has  done  and  is  doing  for  us 
as  a  people. 

May  God  bless  us  and  help  us 
appreciate  his  blessings,  and  may 
they  be  increased  unto  us.  May  we 
grow  in  wisdom,  in  knowledge,  and 
understanding.  May  we  continue 
to  be  so  faithful  and  true  that  the 
Lord  will  be  pleased  to  own  and 
bless  us,  as  his  people.  May  we  be 
able  to  enjoy  every  blessing,  privi- 
lege and  gift  which  he  has  in  store 
for  his'  faithful  Saints.  Nothing 
short  of  this,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, will  be  satisfactory  to  you  and 
me.  May  God  help  us  in  our  weak- 
nesses, that  we  may  be  able  to  over- 
come with  his  strength,  and  make  us 
equal  to  every  occasion,  that  we 
may  not  falter,  but  that  we  may  ever 
look  forward  to  the  promises  which 
he  has  made.  May  we  have  the 
testimony  burning"  in  our  hearts  to 
know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  to 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  proph- 
et ;  to  know  all  that  he  received,  and 
all  the  visitations  that  came  to  him, 
and  all  that  has  been  revealed  and 
restored  to  the  earth,  and  know  that 
these  things  are  true,  that  we  may 
not  falter  in  the  least,  but  continue 
to  be  faithful  in  good  works,  I  hum- 
bly pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  HENRIE 

(President  of  the  Panguitch  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  direct  me  in  the  remarks  I 
make.  It  has  been  indeed  a  great 
blessing  to  me  to  have  the  privilege 
of  attending  this  general  conference 
of  the  Church,  and  listen  to  the 
many  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne,  and  further  to  listen  to  our 
brethren  explain  and  enlarge  upon 
the  principles  of  the  gospel  that 
have  been  given  to  us  in  this  the  dis- 
pensation of  the  fulness  of  times. 
We  have  had  enumerated  to  us  in 
this  meeting  events  that  took  place 
in  connection  with  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel.  These  things  are  marvel- 
ous and  great.  Our  brethren  and 
sisters  who  lived  in  the  early  history 
of  the  Church,  had  to  wonder  as  to 
what  would  be  the  result  of  this 
great  move,  because  it  was  new  to 
them'.  We  live  as  those  who  di- 
rect the  affairs  of  business  after  it 
has  become  established,  by  those 
who  have  gone  through  with  the 
experimental  part  and  have  learned 
to  know  that  it  was  successful  and 
good.  The  stocks  of  corporations 
become  valuable  after  the  corpora- 
tion has  made  a  success,  and  paid 
great  dividends ;  and  I  look  upon 
this  work'  in, that  same  connection. 
It  has  become  greater  to  us  because 
of  our  seeing  the  wonderful  success 
that  has  crowned  these  events  that 
have  been  enumerated  here  in  our 
meeting.  If  we  had  not  received 
any  advantages  because  of  the  vis- 
itation of  God  the  Father  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the  world,  we 
might  not  be  as  strong  in  our  testi- 
mony of  its  truths.  But  if  as  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  we  can  individ- 
ually see  where  we  have  been  greatly 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  HENRIE 


117 


blessed  because  of  that  event,  then 
our  standing  in  the  Church  ought  to 
be  esteemed  much  higher  by  us  much 
more  so  than  if  we  had  lived  in  the 
early  part  of  the  history  of  the 
Church,  when  it  was  experimental 
to  a  large  degree  with  the  people 
who  lived  at  that  time.  I  have 
thought  often  of  my  case,  and  won- 
dered what  I  would  have  been,  had 
it  not  been  that  the  glorious  visita- 
tion was  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  and  had  not  the  gos- 
pel been  restored.  In  my  case,  as 
with  many  of  you,  my  parents  were 
found  in  different  parts  of  the 
world..  No  other  means  under  heav- 
en, probably,  could  have  found 
them,  and  brought  them  together, 
and  given  me  birth  under  such  fa- 
orable  circumstances  and  conditions 
as  I  enjoy.  My  mother,  a  little  girl 
in  a  great  city  in  the  old  country, 
was  found  and  brought  out  into  the 
valleys  of  these  great  Rocky  moun- 
tains where  there  was  great  room 
for  development.  My  father  was 
found  in  an  entirely  different  part 
of  the  world,  and  brought  here  by 
his  parents,  and  united  in  the  house 
of  God,  under  the  New  and  Ever- 
lasting Covenant,  for  time  and 
eternity,  to  her,  who  gave  me  birth, 
with  which  I  am  pleased  and  well 
satisfied.  This  applies  to  a  very 
large  number  of  Saints  who  have 
been  gathered  to  these  valleys  and 
who  have  had  similar  history  and 
origin.  These  things  have  been 
brought  about  by  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  and  the  establishment  of 
this  great  work. 

Another  thing  that  I  want  to  speak 
of  briefly :  in  the  day  that  the  gospel 
was  restored,  our  parents  and  grand 
parents  were  groping  in  darkness 
to  a  great  extent  as  to  what  was 
the  best  means  of  living,  whether,^ 
for  instance,  it  was  proper  to  par- 


take of  stimulants  to  give  them  the 
strength  needed  for  the  accomplish- 
ment of  their  work.  Light  came 
through  the  restored  gospel,  show- 
ing that  men  are  better  without 
stimulants,  without  the  use  of  nar- 
cotics, and  things  that  have  a  tend- 
ency to  injure  and  weaken  our  sys- 
tems. This  truth  did  not  come  to 
us  from  a  scientific  source,  but 
through  the  restored  gospel,  and  by 
revelation  from  God.  To  me  there 
has  been  nothing  that  has  blessed 
me  more  than  the  words  o;f  wisdom 
that  were  given  through  the  Proph- 
et of  God,  who  received  the  visit 
from  the  Father  and  the  Son.  You 
apply  that  to  yourselves,  as  I  can 
apply  it  to  myself.  We  may  con- 
template now  a  great  people  who 
have  been  blessed  in  their  bodies 
and  in  their  minds,  and  above  all 
in  their  spirits,  because  of  the 
knowledge  revealed  from  heaven  in 
connection  with  these  other  great 
events  that  took  place. 

It  has  been  made  known  to  us 
that  our  citizenship  in  this,  the 
United  States,  is  in  a  government 
nearest  to  God,  our  Father  and  the 
government  of  heaven.  Is  that  any 
advantage  to  us  to  have  that  faith 
in  these  trying  circumstances  con- 
fronting the  world  at  the  present 
time?  To  me  the  knowledge  and 
testimony  that  every  effort  I  put 
forth  to  assist  our  government  and 
its  allies  in  establishing  freedom  and 
equal  rights  among  the  children  of 
men  in  the  world,  are  stimulants 
to  me  to  perform  my  duty  as  a  citi- 
zen of  the  government  of  the  United 
States.  Is  it  any  advantage  to  you 
to  have  that  same  knowledge,  or 
that  same  testimony?  I  am  sure 
that  you  all  enjoy  it  as  I  enjoy  it. 
Is  it  any  advantage  for  us  to  know 
that  we  went  down  into  the  waters 
of  baptism  under  the  hands  of  our 


118 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


brethren  who  received  of  the  priest- 
hood that  was  given  unto  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowd- 
ery,  by  divine  administration  of 
heavenly  beings?  It  is  certainly  a 
blessing  to  me  to  believe  that  I  was. 
baptized  by  one  who  held  the 
authority  of  God,  and  that  my  sins 
were  remitted  because  of  that  bap- 
tism, and  that  through  the  imposi- 
tion of  hands  of  those  who  are  in 
authority  I  am  entitled  to  the  Holy 
Ghost  to  direct  my  every  act  in  life. 
This  is  not,  as  I  view  it,  any  longer 
guess-work,  or  a  matter  of  wonder 
as  to  what  the  result  will  be,  be- 
cause I  see,  as  I  associate  among  the 
children  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
men  and  women  in  every  part  of 
this  state  and  in  other  states,  and 
in  every  part  of  the  world,  people 
who  have  been  enlig'htened  through 
the  imposition  of  hands  and  the  re- 
ception of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Is  there  any  one  who  has  a  de- 
sire to  know  the  things  of  the  Lord 
that  could  not  accept  of  these  great 
principles,  and  see  that  they  were  a 
blessing  to  them  because  of  having 
received  them  ?  Is  it  any  advantage 
to  me  as  a  husband  and  a  father  to 
know  that  I  was  married  in  the 
house  of  God,  and  that  my  _wif§ 
and  children  were  sealed  unto  me 
for  time  and  eternity,  and  that  we 
shall  know  each  other  in  our  family 
circle  throughout  eternity?  Does 
that  bless  us,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, or  are  we  still  in  wonderment 
as  to  whether  that  is  a  good  doctrine 
or  not  ?  It  seems  to  me  that  no  man 
or  woman  who  is  honest  could  deny 
the  very  power  and  effect  of  such 
a  doctrine  as  that  being  taught  to 
the  children  of  men. 

Now,  as  I  said,  we  are  not  guess- 
ing any  longer  as  to  what  will  be  the 
result,  but  we  live  in  this  day  when 
the  God  of  heaven  has  permitted  us 


to  see  the  result  and  to  know  what 
the  effect  has  been  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men.  We  see  here  an  or- 
ganization of  people  who  stand 
wholly  and  unitedly  behind  the  great 
cause  of  the  great  portion  of  the 
world  that  are  fighting  for  the  lib- 
erty and  the  uplift  of  mankind.  I 
do  not  know  of  anything  that  gave 
me  greater  pleasure  than  to  see  the 
unanimous  vote  of  that  great  gath- 
ering of  people  this  morning  sus- 
taining and  supporting  the  president 
of  the  Church  to  appropriate  all  of 
the  means  that  we  could  .spare  from 
the  treasury  of  the  Church  to  sup- 
port this  great  cause. 

There  are  two  things  that  I  have 
a  greater  appreciation  for  this  day 
than  any  others.  One  is  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truthfulness  of  the  gos- 
pel, that  we  are  in  the  light,  that  we 
know  to  that  extent  that  we  serve 
God,  and  develop  within  us  the 
Spirit  of  God  and  magnify  the 
priesthood  that  he  has  given  to  us, 
that  our  lives  are  acceptable  to  him, 
and  that  we  can  ,see  that  the  result 
is  good,  that  we  are  made  stronger 
and  more  perfect  and  Godlike  than 
without  the  organization  of  the 
Church  and  the  principles  of  the 
gospel  as  they  have  been  given  un- 
to us.  I  believe  in  this  day  when 
our  time  is  required  for  so  many 
different  purpose  that  we  ought  to 
be  sure  that  we  do  not  neglect  any- 
thing that  pertains  to  the  gospel  of 
Christ  and  our  eternal  salvation, 
that  we  may  thus  have  power  with- 
in ourselves  not  only  to  serve  our 
country  in  this  time  of  need,  but  to 
serve  God,,  and  this  is  one  of  the 
great  things  that  I  am  most  pleased 
for.  Another  thing  is  citizenship 
in  this  great  Government  of  the 
Linked  States,  and  the  faith  that 
has  come  to  me  that  its  Constitution 
is  an  inspired  instrument,  and  that 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON 


119 


the  Declaration  of  Independence 
was  never  made  by  man  alone.  Man 
would  not  have  had  courage  and  grit 
to  have  undertaken  such  a  thing,  but 
it  was  inspired  of  God,  and  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States  is  su- 
perior to  the  documents  or  charters 
or  constitutions  of  any  other  gov- 
ernment given  unto  men.  This  great 
organization  of  government  is  big 
enough  to  take  in  all  peoples  as  rap- 
idly as  they  are  able  to  come  in  and 
enjoy  the  blessings  of  it. 

I  feel  that  as  Saints  of  God  we 
should  realize  the  great  responsi- 
bilities that  rest  upon  us  in  the  ser- 
vice of  God,  and  live  up  to  the  re- 
quirements of  the  gospel  in  full,  and 
develop  within  ourselves  the  Spirit 
of  God,  and  a  determination  to  be 
worthy,  true  citizens  of  this  great 
Government,  and  assist  it  to  the  full- 
est possible  extent. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  the  true  gospel,  and  in  the 
testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
mission  of  the  men  who  preside  in 
the  Church  in  this  day,  as  well  as 
those  who  have  preceded  them,  in 
the  past  history  of  the  Church.  I 
am  glad  to  feel  within  my  soul,  that 
Joseph  F.  Smith  is  a  prophet  and 
that  he  is  recog'nized  of  the  Lord 
as  the  head  of  the  only  Church  rec- 
ognized of  God  in  the  world ;  and 
that  his  brethren  who  are  numbered 
with  him  as  counselors,  apostles, 
seventies,  stake  presidents,  and  bish- 
ops, are  in  line  and  in  harmony 
with  him.  I  am  glad  to  know  for 
myself  that  the  gospel  is  true,  and 
that  there  is  power  in  it  to  save 
men  from  destruction  and  eternal 
torment  and  sufferings.  There  is 
no  other  people  in  a  condition  to 
know  and  enjoy  the  great  blessings 
that  the  Latter-day  Saints  possess. 
Let  us  rejoice  in  that  truth.  Let  us 
develop  a  further  knowledge  and 


gain  a  greater  power  than  we  have 
already  gained,  is  my  prayer,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

A  young  ladies'  trio  sang:  "I 
bring  hearts-ease." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 

(President  of  the  California  Mission.) 

How  blessed  it  is,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  to  have  faith  in  God 
and  in  his  work ;  to  know  in  one's 
own  soul  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
the  Redeemer,  the  Savior  of  man- 
kind, the  Mediator  of  the  New 
Covenant,  and  one  who  pleads  with 
God  for  the  salvation  of  his  breth- 
ren and  sisters.  This  is  the  thought 
that  came  to  me  whilst  our  breth- 
ren were  bearing  witness  of  the 
testimony  of  truth  that  is  welling 
'up  in  their  souls.  They  are  not 
tossed  about  by  every  wind  of  doc- 
trine, not  driven  with  the  wind, 
not  moved  out  of  their  place.  Yet, 
whilst  they  were  speaking  I  won- 
dered if  here  you  had  met  some 
such  conditions  or  whether  you 
have  had  any  such  cases  as  we  have 
met  in  the  mission  pver  which  I 
preside,  of  men  who  would  "run 
without  being  sent,"  men  who  did 
not  await  until  they  were  called  up- 
on before  they  think  they  can  be 
teachers  of  men,  and  who  rise  up 
with  their  hands  to  steady  the  ark 
of  the  covenant. 

I  have  wondered  if  in  this  land 
you  have  had  any  who  are  "mighty 
and  strong  who  are  come  to  divide 
by  lot  the  inheritances  of  the 
Saints."  We  have  had  five  such 
in  the  California  mission  since  I 
have  had  the  honor  to  preside  in  it. 
They  have  come  to  naught,  and 
dwindled  away.  One  in  particular 
that  I  have  in  mind,  who  gathered 


120 


GENMRAt  CONFERENCE. 


about  him  quite  a  little  body  of 
honest  people,  God-fearing  people, 
humble  and  contrite  and  repentant 
when  they  were  shown  the  error  of 
their  ways,  for  T  had  the  privilege 
of  baptizing  a  goodly  number  of 
them.  This  man  went  on  for  years, 
pretending  that  sometime  he  would 
come  as  a  mighty  and  strong  one 
and  set  the  Church  in  order.  He 
said  that  the  people  would  be  tried 
in  all  things ;  so  frequently  he 
would  be  drunken  with  wine,  that 
they  might  be  tried  in  that  way,  and 
he  reveled  in  the  use  of  some  drugs 
and  tobacco,  so  that  they  might  be 
tried  in  their  faith  because  of  this 
weakness.  He  took  wives  from 
.some  men  and  gave  them  to  others, 
and  then  took  them  himself,  and 
then  turned  them  back  to  the  orig- 
inal husband,  that  they  might  bt 
tried  in  that  way.  And  still  they 
endured  it  because  of  their  faith - 
in  .some  of  his  prophecies  and  the 
manner  in  which  he  interpreted  the 
scriptures.  When  stricken  and 
about  to  die,  he  was  taken  to  a  hos- 
pital, and  several  days  before  his 
death  he  told  them  not  to  bury  him, 
but  to  watch  over  his  body  for 
three  days  and  he  would  come  and 
take  it  up  again  and  establish  them 
in  their  inheritance  in  Zion  before 
God  forever.  They  watched  his 
body  for  six  days,  and  then  they 
buried  him. 

I  have  wondered  if  there  has 
been  any  one  come  to  you  who 
wanted  to  establish  the  "Order  of 
Enoch,"  who  want  you  to  "join  the 
United  Order."  We  have  had  such 
one,  and  when  certain  of  che 
Saints,  his  associates,  moved  by  his 
testimony  and  his  oratory,  joined 
with  him  to  have  a  "community  of 
interests,"  in  all  of  their  real  estate 
and  effects,  and  they  came  with  the 
deeds  to  their  lands  to  be  conveyed 


to  the  body  that  was  being  organ- 
ized by  him,  and  they  asked  him 
for  his  deed,  why,  he  had  deeded 
his  property  to  his  wife  and  all  he 
had  was  but  the  watch  that  he  wore. 
This  made  them  a  little  bit  jealous' 
and  fearful  of  the  scheme,  and  so 
it  all  came  to  nothing.  So  I  have 
noted  that  some  men  here  at  home, 
who  have  met  with  financial  fail- 
ures, are  quite  willing  to  join  the 
"Order  of  Enoch,"  and  have  the 
people  pay  their  debts  and  take  care 
of  their  families.  I  don't  know 
whether  you  have  met  any  such 
or  not. 

I  want  to  read  to  you,  thus  ex- 
tending the  remarks  of  my  breth- 
ren this  afternoon,  and  what  was 
said  in  the  general  conference  yes- 
terday, from  the  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants, 42 : 1 1 : 

"And  again,  I  say  unto  you,  that 
it  shall  not  be  given  to  any  one  to  go 
forth  to  preach  my  gospel,  or  to  build 
up  my  Church,  except  he  be  ordained 
hv  some  one  who  has  authority,  <md 
it  is  known  to  the  Church  that  he  has 
authority,  and  has  been  regularly  or- 
dained by  the  heads  of  the  Church." 

Has  any  one  been  telling  you  that 
God  can  raise  up  a  prophet  at  any 
time?  That  it  does  not  require  the 
authority  of  man  to  make  proph- 
ets and  apostles  and  leaders  of  the 
people?  Have  they  quoted  to  you 
that  Paul  has  said,  that  he  "was  an 
apostle  not  by  man  nor  the  hands 
of  man,"  as  a  proof  of  this  doc- 
trine? Or,  that  God  sent  his  angel 
to  ordain  John  when  he  was  eight 
days  old,  or  that  he  ordained  Esaias 
by  his  own  hands?  If  they  have, 
they  have  told  you  the  same  things 
I  have  heard  in  the  mission  field. 
T  am  mindful  of  the  fact  that  the 
least  deacon  in  the  Church  could  say 
with  as  much  appropriateness  as 


JOSEPH  E,  ROBINSON 


121 


Paul  that  he  has  the  priesthood, 
"not  by  man  nor  by  the  hands  of 
man,"  for  man  did  not  bring  the 
priesthood,  did  not  ordain  it  and 
cannot  bestow  it  within  and  of 
himself.  The  priesthood  of  the 
Son  of  God  is  without  beginning 
of  days  or  end  of  years ;  without 
father,  and  without  mother,  and 
without  descent ;"  but  it  is  always, 
and  has  ever  been  given  under  the 
hands  of  some  one  'whom  God  hath 
appointed.  Paul  was  chosen  and 
set  apart  to  the  ministry  with 
Barnabas,  by  the  Apostles,  in  the 
Church,  and  he  was  sent  by  the 
Lord,  Jesus  Christ,  to  Ananias,  in 
Damascus,  that  through  Ananias 
he  might  receive  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  Cornelius,  devout  as  he  was, 
and  visited  by  angels,  did  not  re- 
ceive the  Holy  Ghost  until  the  prop- 
er authoritv  had  been  sent  to  him 
to  bestow  it.  And  so  we  may  rest 
assured  that  John  received  his 
priesthood  either  from  his  father, 
who  held  it  and  who  ministered  at 
the  altar  in  the  temple,  or  from 
some  one  who  was  authorised  to 
give  the 'priesthood.  Men  may  be 
appointed  and  ordained  to  fill  cer- 
tain positions ;  but  all  the  wav 
through  you  find  that  the  priest- 
hood came  through  the  proper  ord- 
er in  the  Church.  Esaias  received 
his  priesthood  at  the  hand  of  Mel- 
chizedek,  the  great  high  priest.  So 
when,  men  claim  these  things,  they 
are  either  ambitious  to  claim  lead- 
ership themselves  or  have  lo.st  sight 
of  the  word  of  the  Lord  in  refer- 
ence to  priesthood  and  presidency. 

I  am  told  that  this  85th  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  writ- 
ten into  a  letter  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  as  he  wrote  to  W. 
W.  Phelps,  is  yet  to  be  fulfilled, 
and  men  are  teaching  it  and  writ- 
ing about  it  today  as  they  have  been 


from  the  very  time  it  came  forth  in 
the  Church,  and  it  was  given  No- 
vember, 1832.  T  want  to  read  just 
a  little.  And  if  you  will  read  the 
48th  and  51st  sections,  you  will  find 
how  the  Lord  determined  that  his 
Saints  should  receive  their  inherit- 
ances in  Zion.  They  were  conse- 
crating their  goods  when  they  were 
converted  in  the  world  and  send- 
ing their  funds  up  to  Jackson 
county,  to  the  Bishop  of  the  Church, 
who  was  to  buy  lands  for  them, 
and  give  it  to  them  "legally"  by 
"deed"  under  the  law,  that  they 
might  receive  it  in  severalty  for 
themselves  and  their  heirs  after 
them.  And  when  people  had  sent 
their  moneys  and  then  emigrated  to 
Zion  they  found  the  Bishop  was  a 
little  slow  in  doing  his  appointed 
work.  The  anger  of  the  Prophet 
was  aroused,  and  he  wrote  to 
Brother  Phelps  how  badly  tried  he 
was  over  this  matter,  that  people 
who  had  sold  all  they  possessed, 
and  had  left  their  friends  in  the 
East  and  had  sent  their  moneys 
ahead  of  them  to  Zion,  and  then 
came  there,  and  found  there  was  no 
place  there,  no  inheritance  prepared. 
It  looked  like  a  fraud  upon  the  face 
of  it.  So  he  wrote  to  Brother 
Phelps  how  his  soul  was  wrought 
up  over  this  matter.  Yet  some  men 
can  read  into  this  revelation,  this 
letter  of  the  Prophet,  an  event  yet 
to  be.  I  want  to  read  to  you  just 
one  paragraph  when  this  one 
mighty  and  strong  was  to  come,  for 
we  read  here  that  record  of  all 
things  that  transpire  in  Zion  should 
be  kept,  and  that  all  who  consecrat- 
ed property  should  receive  an  in- 
heritance legally  from  the  Bishop. 
And  if  the  Bishop  would  not  do 
this,  then  God  would  send  a  mighty 
and  strong  one  who  would  see  that 
it  was  done,  and  that  man*who  zvas 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


appointed  and  who  was  called  of 
God,  "that  putteth  forth  his  hand 
to  .steady  the  ark  of  God,  shall  fall 
by  the  shaft  of  death,  like  as  a  tree 
that  is  smitten  by  the  vivid  shaft  of 
lightning-."  A  man  in  1832  must 
today  be  112  or  115  years  of  age,  to 
say  the  least.  Do  any  of  you  know 
of  a  man  who  was  appointed  at  that 
time  to  do  a  work  who  is  still  liv- 
ing? And  yet  men,  deluded  by  the 
cunning  influences  of  the  adversary, 
would  today  see  a  present  fulfil- 
ment of  these  words  as  I  have  read 
them  to  you. 

How  delightful  it  is,  how  thank- 
ful men  should  be,  that  God  gra- 
ciously has  given  them  faith,  that 
they  do  not  question  his  authority, 
that  they  are  willing  to  follow  the 
lead  of  the  brethren  who  have  been 
called  to  preside  in  the  Church ;  and 
we  may  rest  assured  that  there  will 
be  none  come  out  of  this  order,  for 
as  I  read  to  you,  they  who  preach 
the  gospel  or  organize  any  of  its 
branches  or  set  in  operation  any  of 
its  functions  must  be  regularly  or- 
dained by  the  heads  of  the  Church, 
and  be  known  by  the  Church. 
So  even  if  John  should  come,  as 
some  friends  would  try  to  make  me 
believe,  how  would  he  be  known? 
"O,  his  prophetic  power  and  his 
personality  would  ■  declare  him," 
they  say.  Aye,  but  that  does  not 
answer.  The  Lord  has  said,  that 
he  that  is  called  must  be  regularly 
ordained  by  the  heads  of  the 
Church,  and  knozvn  by  the  people 
of  the  Church.  While  I  agree  John 
has  a  great  work  to  perform  yet, 
as  we  read  in  the  scriptures,  if  he 
comes  to  us  it  will  be  as  he  came 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and 
■doubtless  with  other  witnesses. 
Their  work  will  have  to  be  done  by 
and  through  the  proper  order  and 
priesthood,  and  through  the  proper 


and  correct  channels  of  the  Church, 
and  the  people  will  know  and  un- 
derstand it,  and  it  will  not  be  a  side 
issue,  where  Southerner  or  North- 
erner or  West-man  or  "East-man" 
can  say  'T  am  he."  It  is  true  that 
when  the  Prophet  Joseph  had  his 
vision  there  was  none  others  pres- 
ent of  mortal  men ;  but  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  two  witnesses,  were 
there,  and  when  we  stand  before 
the  pleasing  bar  of  Almighty  God, 
they  will  bear  witness  to  the  un- 
believer, that  they  revealed  them- 
selves to  the  boy  Prophet  in  this 
day,  and  under  their  divine  guid- 
ance and  instruction  he  set  up  the 
Church  of  Christ  for  the  last  time. 
And  when  John  came  with  his,  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  there  were 
Joseph  and  Oliver  present.  When 
Peter  and  James  in  their  resurrect- 
ed bodies  and  John  still  in  the  flesh 
came,  there  was  Joseph  and  Oliver 
again.  When  the  might  v  angels, 
Adam  or  Michael,  and  Elias  and 
Elijah  came,  in  the  Kirtland  temple, 
there  were  the  brethren  to  bear 
witness  of  it,  and  "every  word  of 
the  gospel  shall  be  established  in 
the  mouth  of  two  or  more  wit- 
nesses." So  when  one  man  rises 
vp>  to  iudge  Israel,  and  to  sav  how 
we  shall  walk,  and  to  divide  the 
word  of  God  to  us,  even  though 
he  claims  an  angel  has  visited  him, 
we  should  look  with  suspicion  upon 
that  individual.  In  the  last  days,  it 
is  true  that  God  would  pour  out 
his  Spirit  upon  all  flesh,  and  "their 
old  men  shall  dream  dreams,  and 
their  voting  men  shall  see  visions, 
and  their  sons  and  their  daughters 
shall  prophesv,"  that  is  not  limited 
alone  to  the  Church  of  Christ.  It 
is  to  all  flesh  who  accept  the  Christ 
as  their  Pedeemer.  There  are  wise 
men  in  the  world  and  there  are 
daughters  who  prophesy ;  but  I  am 


JOSEPH  E.  ROBINSON. 


1?3 


afraid  there  are  some  in  the  Church 
who  dream  dreams  only.  I  have 
told  the  sisters  in  our  mission,  for 
several  of  them  have  dreamed 
dreams,  that  there  has  been  no  pro- 
vision for  them  to  dream  dreams 
for  the  Church.  "Their  old  men 
shall  dream  dreams,  their  young 
men  shall  see  visions,  and  their  sons 
and  daughters  shall  prophesy,"  but 
there  is  no  chance  for  the  sisters  to 
dream  dreams.  So  when  they  come 
to  me  with  their  wondrous  dreams 
about  what  I  .should  do  in  order  to 
establish  the  Church  to  save  the 
Saints  from  destruction,  I  have  met 
it  with  more  or  less  suspicion 
despite  their  faithfulness  and  their 
sweetness  and  the  consideration 
that  should  be  given  them  because 
of  their  regard  for  me  per.sonallv 
and  for  my  people.  But  I  am  afraid 
of  dreamers  of  that  kind. 

I  have  never  asked,  since  I  ar- 
rived at  the. age  of  judgment,  and 
of  ripe  manhood,  nor  since  I  have 
been  called  to  preside  in  the  order 
of  God  and  labor  in  his  ministry, — 
I  have  not  asked  for  visions  nor 
tongues,  nor  the  gift  of  prophecy, 
in  the  sense  of  being  a  prophet  to 
Tsrael.  T  have  asked  for  &ood  com- 
mon sense.  I  have  asked  the  Lord 
to  keen  me  humble  and  stable  :  and 
T  thank  him  with  all  my  heart  that 
I  believe  his  word  and  sustain,  with 
all  mv  heart,  his  priesthood.  If  I 
cannot  both  with  my  head  and  mv 
heart  love  him,  let  me  love  him  with 
my  heart  alone  and  believe  in  his 
WOfd  with  all  mv  soul.  I  pray  that 
it  shall  not  be  left  to  mv  head  alone, 
which  mav  err,  and  which  is  cold, 
and  calculating.  You  wives  want 
to  be  loved  by  your  husbands  with 
their  whole  hearts.  No  matter  how 
much  thev  admire  you,  and  speak 
of  yotir  graces  with  their  lips,  and 
tell  of  your  virtues,  you  want  their 


hearts.  And  ,so  God  has  said,  "O 
son,  give  me  thy  heart."  We  are 
told  by  the  poet  Holland,  who  was 
at  once  a  poet  and  philosopher,  that 

"Ofttimes  the  heart  is  wiser  than  the 
intellect, 

And  leads    with    swifter    hands  and 
surer  feet  to  wise  conclusions." 

These  men  who  spend  all  their 
time  trying  to  figure  out  in  the 
scriptures  what  awaits  us,  and  to 
steady  the  ark  by  their  interpreta- 
tion of  the  word  of  God,  ofttimes 
are  giving  their  heads  to  the  ad- 
versary and  withholding  .  their 
hearts  from  God,  and  stand  on  dan- 
gerous ground. 

I  ask  for  the  faith  of  the  ancient 
seer  who,  stripped  of  his  riches,  his 
children  taken  from  him,  his  friends 
finding  fault  with  him ;  sitting  in 
the  ashes  of  a  once  happy  home, 
afflicted  with  a  nauseating,  humil- 
iating, disease,  scraping  the  exuda- 
tions of  that  disease  from  his  bodv 
with  a  potsherd  ;  his  wife  sickened 
with  his  appearance  and  what  he 
had  passed  through,  saying  to  him, 
"Whv  don't  you  curse  God  and 
die  ?"  said,  exulting  in  his  heart  be- 
cause he  knew  his  God  and  his  sal- 
vation, "Though  he  slay  me,  yet 
will  I  trust  in  him,"  for,  "Though 
after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this 
body  of  mine,  yet  in  mv  flesh  shall 
I  see  God,  whom  I  shall  see  for  mv- 
self,  and  mine  eyes  shall  behold, 
and  not  another,  though  my  reins 
be  consumed  within  me." 

I  want  the  faith  of  Paul  who, 
persecuted,  maligned,  misunder- 
stood, imprisoned,  poverty  stricken, 
earning  his  own  livelihood  as  he 
oreached  by  the  wavside,  appealing 
from  the  courts  of  Rome  to  the 
Caesar  himself,  the  head  of  the  Ro- 
man government,  in  order,  I  take  it, 
that  he  might  bear  witness  of  the 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


Christ  to  the  very  head  of  the  civ- 
ilized world  at  that  time,  (for  he 
need  not  have  gone  had  he  not  de- 
sired it),  I  want  the  faith  that  he 
had  after  he  had  borne  his  testi- 
mony, after  he  had  bidden  farewell 
to  the  Saints,  as  he  wrote  to  his 
loved  son  by  adoption,  Timothy, 
from  his  prison  cell,  perhaps  by  the 
rays  of  the  sinking  sun,  that  last 
that  set  for  him  in  mortal  life,  these 
words:  "I  have  fought  the  goorl 
fight,  I  have  kept  the  faith,  I  have 
finished  my  course,  and  henceforth 
there  is  laid  up  for  me  a  crown  of 
righteousness,  which  God,  the  just 
iudge,  giveth  to  all  those  who  love 
him  and  his  appearing." 

I  want  the  faith  of  President 
Smith  who,  after  seventy  long  years 
of  service,  whilst  broken  in  body 
with  the  responsibilities  and  labor 
of  guiding  this  people,  said :  "Al- 
though I  am  weak  in  body,  I  was 
never  stronger  in  my  spirit  and  in 
my  intellect  and  my  determination 
to  serve  God  and  keep  his  com- 
mandments than  today."  You  heard 
him  Friday  morning  bear  witness 
of  that  in  our  conference. 

I  want  the  faith  of  the  Prophet 
To.seph  Smith,  who  thought  per- 
haps if  he  withdrew  from  his  peo- 
ple for  a  little  season,  he  might  re- 
lieve them  from  persecution ;  but, 
his  wife,  like  Job's  wife,  sent  for 
him  complamingly  with  others,  ask- 
ing him  to  return  to  the  body  of 
the  Church.  He  said :  "If  mv  life, 
is  no  longer  of  worth  to  mv  friends, 
it  is  useless  to  me,"  and  added 
these  words,  as  he  set  his  face  to- 
ward Carthage,  knowing  full  well 
that  his  blood  would  be  shed  to  bear 
witness  of  the  Christ  and  the  mes- 
sage he  gave  in  this  day:  "I  am 
p-oing  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter, 
but  I  am  calm  as  a  summer's  morn- 
ing; T  have  a  conscience  void  of 


offense  towards  God  and  towards 
all  men.  I  shall  die  innocent,  and 
it  shall  yet  be  said  of  me,  'He  was 
murdered  in  cold  blood.'  "  Dare 
any  sycophant,  any  heretic,  any  fal- 
len teacher,  any  coward,  use  the 
words  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  did  ? 
Dare  any  man  within  and  of  him- 
self, unless  his  conscience  was  void 
of  offense  toward  God  and  man, 
declare  such  a  thing  when  he  knew 
that  death  awaited  him  on  the  mor- 
row? O,  the  peace  of  Christ  which 
passeth  the  understanding  of  man ; 
when  it  takes  possession  of  the  souls 
of  his  children,  they  are  unmoved 
as  a  rock.  When  dire  things  come 
to  them,  they  are  unafraid,  and  like 
Joseph,  "calm  as  a  summer's  morn- 
ing," content  to  await  their  redemp- 
tion, for  they  are  not  afraid  of  the 
bar  of  God,  when  they  shall  stand 
in  the  flesh  for  the  final  judgment. 

I  want  the  faith  of  Hyrum,  so 
sweet  in  his  soul,  so  full  of  loyalty 
and  fealty  to  his  brother,  the 
Prophet,  reading  the  words  of  Mo- 
roni, who  had  seen  ten  thousand 
led  by  him,  murdered  about  the  Hill 
Cumorah ;  who  before  closing  the 
record  of  the  Nephites  uses  these 
words,  and  Hyrum  read  them  be- 
fore that  last  trip  to  Carthage,  and 
turned  the  leaf  down,  upon  them 
as  his  testimony : 

"And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  pray- 
ed unto  the  Lord  that  he  would  eive 
unto  the  Gentiles  grace,  that  they 
might  have  charity.  And  it  came  to 
pass  that  the  Lord  said  unto  me,  if 
they  have  not  charity  it  mattereth 
not  unto  thee,  thou  hast  been  faith- 
ful, wherefore  thy  garments  shall 
be  clean.  And  because  thou  hast 
seen  my  weakness,  thou  shalt  be 
made  strong,  even  unto  the  sitting 
down  in  the  place  which  I  have  pre- 
pared in  the  mansions  of  my  Fath- 
er. And  now  I,  Moroni,  bid  fare- 


ELDER  DON  C.  DRIGGS. 


125 


well  unto  the  Gentiles,  yea,  and  also 
unto  my  brether  whom  I  love,  until 
we  shall  meet  before  the  judgment 
seat  of  Christ,  where  all  men  shall 
know  that  my  garments  are  not 
spotted  with  your  blood." 

May  each  one  of  us  have  that 
faith  dwelling  in  our  hearts  that  we 
may  not  be  afraid  when  we  stand 
before  the  pleasing  bar  of  Christ, 
is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  th^ 
Lord  Jesus.  Amen. 

The  choir  sang:  "God  is  our 
refuge." 

Benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Milando  Pratt. 


SECOND  MEETING 
OUT-DOORS. 

.  A  second  outdoor  meeting  was 
held  at  the  Bureau  of  Information 
building  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Elder 
David  O.  McKay,  of  the  Council 
of  Twelve,  presiding. 

Singing   and  music   were  fur- 
nished by  the  Richard's  ward  Glee 
Club,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  choris- 
ter, and  Cleon  Donelson  accompan- 
ist. 

The  Glee  Club  and  congregation 
sang:  "High  on  the  mountain  top." 

Elder  Ernest  Kimball  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

The  Glee  Club  sang:  "Scatter 
Sunshine." 

ELDER  DON  C.  DRIGGS. 

(President  of  the  Teton  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters. — It  is 
certainly  gratifying  to  be  here  today 
to  participate  in  the  exercises  of 
this  great  conference  of  the  Church. 


This  is  my  first  meeting  of  the  con- 
ference. I  happened  to  be  engaged 
in  the  Government  service,  volun- 
tarily, in  one  of  the  departments  of 
our  Government,  and  was  called 
away  at  the  conference  date  to  at- 
tend a  meeting  in  Boise,  and  I  have 
tried  to  fill  both  appointments.  I 
came  in  this  morning  with  the  hope 
of  getting  in  touch  with  the  con- 
ference spirit  and  taking  back  some- 
thing that  would  be  valuable  to  my- 
self and  my  people  who  live  in  one 
of  the  stakes  established  in  the  last 
few  years  in  Idaho,  a  growing  state, 
which  is  inhabited  in  the  southern 
part,  by  Latter-day  Saints.  It  has 
only  been  a  few  years  ago  it  seems 
to  me,  that  our  people  began  to  mi- 
grate into  Idaho,  to  overflow  the 
boundaries  of  this  state.  I  remem- 
ber that  at  the  time  we  went  into 
Idaho,  it  was  a  period  of  depression 
in  the  Church,  and  the  authorities 
felt  the  need  of  the  young  people 
staying  at  home,  but  they  allowed 
a  few  of  us  to  go  over  there.  We 
have  established  a  stake  of  Zion  in 
that  part  of  the  country,  have  de- 
veloped now  into  quite  a  colony,  and 
a  good  part  of  the  Church  is  located 
within  the  boundaries  of  the  state 
of  Idaho. 

I  rejoice  in  the  progress  of  the 
Church,  of  the  latter-day  work,  and 
that  I  have  been  permitted  to  have 
a  humble  part  in  its  establishment, 
in  its  growth  and  development.  I 
like  to  keep  in  touch  with  the  spirit 
of  the  work  and  the  progress  of  the 
Church,  and  know  that  I  am  in 
harmony  with  those  who  are 
charged  with  the  responsibilty  of 
carrying  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  rejoice  in  the  work  that  our 
boys  are  doing,  in  the  spirit  that 
they  are  manifesting,  not  only  in 
their  loyalty  to  the  Government  of 
the  Lmited  States,  but  in  the  feel- 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ing-  that  comes  to  them  at  the  same 
time,  that  they  desire  to  place  them- 
selves in  harmony  with  the  Church, 
and  seek  the  blessings  it  is  their 
right  to  enjoy,  before  they  depart 
on  their  great  mission  of  service  to 
their  country.  I  have  noticed  that 
as  our  boys  go  out  in  the  service  of 
our  country,  that  they  begin  to  think 
about  the  possibilities  of  the  bless- 
ings that  are  vouchsafed  unto  them 
through  the  channels  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  have  a  desire  to  receive 
these  blessings.  I  feel  that  the  ex- 
perience that  our  boys  are  getting 
in  the  service  of  our  country  is 
going  to  make  them  appreciate  also 
the  service  that  they  may  give  to 
the  Church. 

I  believe  that  the  spirit  that  the 
boys  have  in  desiring  to  go  forth  in 
the  service  of  their  country  is  also 
enjoyed  by  the  people.  We  find  that 
our  boys  are  not  satisfied  to  stay 
back  in  the  training  camps,  but  are 
eager  to  get  to  the  front,  and  when 
they  get  to  the  front  "over  there," 
that  they  are  not  satisfied  to  stay 
back,  but  are  eager  to  get  right  on 
the  firing  line.  We  are  beginning 
to  get  that  spirit  ourselves  as  a 
people.  When  the  calls  are  made 
upon  us  from  time  to  time  to  do  ser- 
vice for  our  country,  there  is  an 
eagerness  to  get  into  the  front  line, 
and  to  go  "over  the  top."  I  am 
proud  of  the  record  we  are  making 
in  this  particular.  I  am  proud  of 
the  record  of  the  people  in  our  par- 
ticular part  of  the  country,  and  1 
want  to  state  here  that  at  8  o'clock- 
on  the  night  of  the  drive  for  this 
Fourth  Liberty  Loan,  we  were  able 
to  telegraph  to  headquarters  that 
we  had  gone  "over  the  top,"  just 
at  the  close  of  the  first  day.  And 
that  is  the  spirit  that  is  being  mani- 
fest in  our  part  of  the  country.  I 
know  it  is  the  spirit  all  over  the 


country,  and  especially  .among  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice  that  we 
so  readily  take  up  the  cause  of  our 
country,  because  it  is  really  the 
■cause  that  we  have  been  hgnung 
for  ourselves  these  many  years ;  and 
it  is  characteristic  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  they  adapt  themselves 
to  the  needs  of  their  country,  and 
when  an  opportunity  comes,  that 
they  are  ready  and  willing  to  show 
their  devotion  and  patriotism.  These 
thoughts  are  uppermost  in  our 
minds.  I  know  that  we  may  be  ex- 
cused for  talking  about  them  in  our 
meetings,  and  we  can  be  satisfied 
with  the  feeling  that  it  is  in  har- 
mony with  the  teachings  that  we 
have  always  received. 

I  rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  desire  to 
remain  faithful  to  that  testimony. 
I  desire,  as  long  as  I  am  permitted 
to  live  upon  the  earth,  to  be  permit- 
ted to  have  a  desire  and  disposition 
to  raise  my  voice  in  defense  of  the 
Church,  and  to  live  so  as  to  be 
worthy  of  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 
I  pray  that  his  favor  and  blessing 
may  be  enjoyed  by  all  of  us,  that 
we  may  continue  faithful  in  the 
discharge  of  every  duty  and  obliga- 
tion resting  upon  us,  in  the  name 
Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER. 

(President  of  the  Woodruff  Stake  of 
Zion.) 

I  have  enjoyed  all  of  the  sessions 
of  this  Conference,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  and  the  sweet  influence  that 
has  attended  its  meetings.  I  most 
humbly  pray  and  desire  that  while 
we  are  assembled  this  afternoon,  in 
this  little  meeting,  the  same  sweet 
influence  may  attend  us. 

The  first  article  of  faith  of  the 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER. 


127 


Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
clay  Saints  reads:  "We  believe  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father,  and  in  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy 
Ghost."  It  seems  to  me  that  all  of 
the  Christian  world  claim  to  believe 
in  God  our  Eternal  Father  and  in 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ;  but  we,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  have  a  knowl- 
edge of  God  that  the  world  does 
not  have.  We  believe  in  the  God  of 
Abraham  and  Isaac  and  Jacob,  the 
God  of  our  fathers. 

We  read  in  the  18th  chapter  of 
Genesis,  that  God  made  himself 
known  to  Abraham,  on  the  plains  of 
Mamre.  He  talked  with  him  and 
ate  with  him,  and  associated  with 
him,  as  one  man  talks  and  eats  and 
associates  with  another.  Abraham 
had  great  faith  in  God,  because  of 
his  knowledge  of  God,  because  he 
had  associated  with  him,  had  been 
near  him.  At  the  time  of  the  de- 
stination of  the  cities  of  the  plain, 
when  God  came  down  himself, 
Abraham  had  great  influence  with 
him  concerning  those  things,  be- 
cause of  his  knowledge  and  faith  in 
God  the  Eternal  Father. 

Isaac  and  Jacob  were  both  famil- 
iar with  God,  and  therefore,  they 
had  great  faith  in  him. 

Our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus 
Christ,  when  upon  the  earth,  said 
he  was  the  very  image  of  his  Father 
in  heaven,  and  those  who  had  seen 
him  had  also  seen  the  Father.  They 
were  so  much  alike  in  person  that 
whoever  looked  upon  the  person  of 
Jesus  Christ  could  see  in  him  the  ex- 
act image  of  his  Father ;  and  we 
know  that  our  Savior  had  a  body 
the  same  as  the  body  of  a  man,  and 
he  mingled  with  men  upon  the  earth, 
ate  with  them,  conversed  with  them, 
and  finally  laid  his  body  in  the  tomb 
as  other  men  are  laid  away  whe» 


they  pass  from  this  state  of  exist- 
ence. 

In  our  dispensation,  the  Lord  has 
again  revealed  himself  to  men  upon 
the  earth.  In  answer  to  prayer, 
God  the  Eternal  Father  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ  appeared  to  Joseph 
Smith.  They  were  in  appearance 
similar  to  men,  and  they  conversed 
with  him,  the  Father  saying,  "This 
is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  ye  him." 
The  Savior  of  the  world  conversed 
with  the  boy  prophet,  and  instructed 
him  concerning  his  future  mission 
upon  this  earth. 

Now,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
there  is  a  great  deal  of  difference 
between  saying  that  we  believe  in 
God,  and  in  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son, 
and  knotting  God.  We  are  told 
that  to  know  God,  and  Jesus  Christ 
his  Son,  is  eternal  life.  And  I  be- 
lieve that  is  the  only  way  that  we 
will  ever  attain  to  eternal  life,  to 
obtain  #a  knowledge  of  God,  our 
Eternal  Father.  I  do  not  believe 
we  can  successfully  worship  him 
unless  we  know  who  he  is. 

I  believe  that  there  are  a  great 
many  people  in  the  world  today, 
who  are  *in  the  same  condition  tnai 
the  people  were  at  Athens  when 
Paul  went  there,  on  one  occasion. 
He  saw  upon  an  alter  this  inscription 
"Unto  the  unknown  God ;"  and  he 
said,  "Him  whom  ye  ignorantly 
worship,  declare  I  unto  you ;"  and 
then  he  preached  unto  them  the 
true  and  the  living  God,  the  Father 
of  our  spirits,  the  creator  of  the 
heavens  and  the  earth,  the  seas, 
and  the  fountains  of  water,  and  all 
that  in  them  is. 

And  that  is  the  God  whom  we 
serve,  worship,  and  pray  to.  We 
have  faith  in  him,  because  of  our 
knowledge  of  him.  It  seems  to  me 
that  it  is  the  only  way  we  can 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


have  faith  in  anything.  Our  be- 
lief in  anything"  is  through  the 
knowledge  that  we  have  of  that 
in  which  we  believe.  When  we 
pray  to  God  our  Eternal  Father, 
we  expect  our  prayers  to  be  an- 
swered. We  pray  in  sincerity,  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  have  all 
faith  and  hope  that  our  prayers 
will  be  answered. 

There  are  people  praying  today, 
in  all  this  world,  who  never  prayed 
before ;  and  it  is  difficult  indeed 
Ifor  people  to  pray  to  God  who 
have  not  faith  in  him.    It  is  evi- 
dent to  me  that  a  great  majority  of 
the  people  of  the  world  today  that 
I  have  been  associated  with,  out- 
side of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  do  not  know 
to  whom  they  are  praying ;  they  do 
not  have  a  knowledge  of  God.  If 
they  had,  they  would  not  profane 
his  name  in  one  breath,  and  pray  to 
him  in  the  next.    We  are  l;ving  in 
an  age  of  profanity.    God  has  com- 
manded his  people,  Thou  shalt  not 
take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God 
in  vain ;"  and  yet,  over  all  this  broad 
land,  we  find  men  and  boys,  young 
and  old,  who  ought  to  know  better, 
profaning  the  name  of  God ;  and 
now,  when  distress,  trials  and  troub- 
les are  coming  to  them  through  this 
terrible  world  war,  they  are  turn- 
ing to  the  Lord,  endeavoring  to 
pray  to  him  for  the  protection  of 
their  sons,  and  those  who  are  near 
and  clear  to  them,  who  have  been 
called  into  the  war. 

The  Lord  has  said,  "If  you  will 
turn  unto  me,  I  will  turn  unto  you." 
If  you  will  turn  unto  God,  he  will 
turn  unto  you.  If  you  will  resist 
the  devil,  he  will  flee  from  you. 
And  I  believe  in  that  saying.  I  be- 
lieve that  it  is  true.  If  we  have 
profaned  the  name  of  Deity,  we 
have  not  known  what  we  were  do- 


ing, we  have  not  known  the  true 
and  the  living  God.  I  believe  if 
those  who  have  been  guilty  of  it 
will  repent,  draw  near  unto  the 
Lord  in  prayer,  that  he  will  draw 
near  unto  them  and  they  will  be 
forgiven  for  that  which  they  have 
done.  I  believe  in  the  principle  of 
repentance,  whether  it  is  of  pro- 
fanity, or  the  breaking  of  the  Sab- 
bath day,  or  any  other  command- 
ment that  the  Lord  has  given  unto 
us.  After  we  have  attained  to  a 
knowledge  of  these  things,  and 
know  that  we  have  done  wrong, 
and  we  repent,  the  Lord  will  for- 
give us ;  and  so  sure  as  we  draw 
near  unto  him,  so  sure  also  will  he 
draw  near  unto  us,  and  his  Holy 
Spirit  will  be  with  us,  and  guide 
and  direct  us  in  our  lives.  But  we 
ought  to  pray  consistently  to  God. 

I  remember  one  little  incident  that 
brought  this  matter  to  my  mind  a 
few  days  ago.  A  man  with  whom 
I  am  well  acquainted,  a  member  of 
the  Church,  who  has  not  done  any- 
thing in  the  way  of  performing  his 
spiritual  duty  in  the  Church,  had 
never  prayed  before  in  his  life 
with  his  family.  He  had  an  invalid 
mother  who  herself  had  been  a 
praying  woman,  but  his  boys  had 
never  been  taught  to  pray.'  When 
they  had  gone  away  from  home, 
they  wrote  letters  home.  The  in- 
fluence that  surrounded  them  at 
home  in  the  organizations  of  the 
Church,  appealed  to  them  then 
more  than  it  had  at  home ;  and  they 
wrote  to  their  father  and  mother 
that  they  wanted  them  to  pray  for 
them  night  and  morning.  They 
wanted  to  be  remembered  in  their 
prayers..  And  this  man,  after  that, 
commenced  to  pray  to  the  Lord  for 
the  preservation  of  his  boys.  After 
#  conversation  with  him  regarding 
it,  and  he  had  informed  me  himself 


ELDER  JOHN  M.  BAXTER. 


129 


that  he  had  started  to  attend  to  his 
prayers,  the  next  Sunday  on  my 
way  to  attend  meeting'  in  our  stake 
of  Zion,  I  found  him  and  his  whole 
force  of  men  (because  he  was  a 
rancher )  working  upon  the  Sab- 
bath day,  just  the  same  as  on  any 
other  day  of  the  week, — though 
doubtless  on  the  evening  of  that 
Sabbath  day,  he  knelt  down,  in  his 
home  and  called  upon  the  Lord  to 
preserve  the  lives  of  his  sons  who 
were  away.  1  do  not  feel  that  his 
life  was  consistent,  or  that  his 
prayers  were  consistent.  It  will  be 
very  difficult  for  him  to  have  faith 
in  God  the  Eternal  Father ;  and  it 
is  said  that  without  faith,  it  is  im- 
possible to  please  God,  for  he  that 
cometh  to  God  must  believe  that  he 
is,  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them 
that  diligently  seek  him.  There- 
fore, under  those  conditions,  I  can- 
not see  how  a  man  could  have  faith 
in  God,  and  faith  that  his  prayers 
would  be  answered.  James  the 
apostle  tells  us  that  when  we  ask 
anything  from  the  Lord,  we  must 
.ask  in  faith,  believing,  never  waver- 
ing, for  he  that  wavereth  is  as  the 
waves  of  the  sea,  driven  by  the 
winds  and  tossed ;  and  we  should 
not  think  that  any  man  under  those 
conditions  will  receive  the  favor  of 
the  Lord.  When  we  waver,  we  are 
unsettled  in  our  minds  as  to  whom 
we  are  praying.  When  we  have 
never  had  a  knowledge  of  God  the 
Eternal  Father,  it  is  very  difficult 
indeed  for  us  to  have  faith  in  him, 
and  have  faith  that  our  prayers  will 
be  answered. 

It  seems  to  me  that  this  present 
time  in  the  world's  history,  is  a  time 
of  repentance,  a  time  when  we 
should  repent  of  our  sins.  If  we 
have  done  evil,  we  will  do  evil  no 
more ;  and  we  will  find  grace  in  the 
sight  of  God  our  heaveny  Father, 


that  our  faith  in  him  will  be  in- 
creased that  our  prayers  may  be 
answered. 

It  seems  to  me  that  it  is  a  time 
that  we  should  turn  to  the  Lord, 
if  we  have  disregarded  his  law, 
broken  the  Sabbath  day,  and  des- 
ecrated that  holy  day  that  he  has 
commanded  us  to  keep  holy.  We 
should  repent  of  it,  and  observe  the 
Sabbath  clay,  work  six  days  of  the 
week,  and  upon  the  seventh  day  go 
to  the  house  of  the  Lord,  partake 
of  the  Sacrament  there,  and  renew 
our  covenants  with  him,  promise 
that  we  will  serve  him  and  keep  his 
commandments  through  the  week 
that  is  before  us.  If.  we  have  been 
in  the  habit  of  breaking  the  com- 
mandment which  God  gave  that 
we  should  not  take  the  name  of  the 
Lord  our  God  in  vain,  we  should 
repent  of  that,  and  not  do.  it  any 
more,  but  be  humble  and  prayerful, 
ask  forgiveness  of  God  for  the  des- 
ecration of  his  name,  go  before  him 
and  put  ourselves  right  before  the 
Lord,  not  only  in  those  two  things 
of  which  I  have  spoken,  but  in 
everything  that  we  have  clone  that 
is  wrong.  It  seems  to  me  it  is  a 
fitting  time,  in  this  particular  age 
of  the  world's  history,  for  us  to  put 
our  houses  in  order,  to  live  the 
lives  of  Latter-day  Saints,  to  trust 
in  the  true  and  the  living  God. 

I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
the  destinies  of  men  and  nations  are 
in  the  hands  of  the  Lord,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  if  the  Latter-day  Saints 
would  overcome  the  weaknesses  of 
their  natures,  and  repent  of  their 
sins,  draw  near  unto  the  Lord  by 
prayers  and  supplications,  and  make 
their  lives  consistent  with  the  same, 
thev  would  have  greater  power  and 
influence  to  bring  about  the  condi- 
tions that  thev  are  desirous  of 
bringing  about.  We  would  thus  have 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


power  with  the  Lord.  I  believe  it  is 
within  the  province  of  the  Lord  to 
save  every  man  and  woman  and 
child  who  will  turn  to  him,  serve 
him  and  keep  his  commandments. 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  you 
with  his  Holy  Spirit,  to  guide  and 
direct  you  in  your  lives,  that  you  may 
draw  near  unto  him,  that  we  all 
may  repent  of  our  sins,  overcome 
the  weaknesses  of  our  flesh,  and 
live  lives  consistent  with  the  teach- 
ings that  we  have  received  as  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 

Elder  Joseph  Kjar  sang  a  solo: 
"Keep  the  home  fires  burning." 


ELDER  EDWARD  W.  CROFT. 

(President  of  the  Big  Horn  Stake  of 
Zion."1 

If  there  was  ever  a  moment  in  my 
life,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  when 
I  deeply  felt  to  appreciate  the  fact 
that  I  am  a  member  of  the  Church, 
it  is  at  this  particular  time.  During 
this  conference  there  has  not  been 
one  moment  that  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  listen  to  the  servants  of 
God,  that  the  prayer  has  not  been 
in  my  heart,  "Thank  God  for  my 
humble  standing  in  the  Church."  If 
there  has  been  a  minute  during  the 
conference,  that  I  have  not  enjoyed 
so  very  much,  it  might  be  termed 
the  one  that  I  am  living  right  now. 

I  feel  this  afternoon  that  of  all 
the  history  of  the  Church  that 
should  be  inspiring  to  the  Latter- 
day  Saints,  the  hours  spent  in  a 
general  conference  should  be  con- 
sidered the  most  important.  I 
thought  yesterday  during  the  meet- 
ings, what  a  glorious  interpretation 
we  have  of  the  mission  of  this  coun- 
try!    I  thought,  too,  yesterday  af- 


ternoon, what  could  we  ask,  as  cit- 
izens of  this  country,  of  our  flag, 
that  it  has  not  given  to  us,  and  does 
not  give  to  us  every  day?  Along 
with  that  thought,  there  was  a  kin- 
dred thought  that  went  through  my 
mind,  what  is  there  in  the  experi- 
ence of  mortal  man,  that  he  could 
ask  for,  pray  for,  possess,  as  a  mor- 
tal being,  that  this  great  organiza- 
tion of  ours  does  not  give  us  ? 

I  thought,  too,  what  a  glorious 
thing  it  is  to  be  reared  in  this 
Church,  what  a  glorious  privilege  it 
is  to  be  born  under  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant,  what  a  bless- 
ing it  is  to  hold  the  priesthood,  what 
a  protection  it  is  to. know  where  we 
came  from,  what  we  are  doing  here, 
and  what  our  life's  mission  is,  and 
what  will  be  the  ultimate  result  of 
our  actions  in  this  life,  and  to  know 
where  we  are  going! 

There  is  an  old  story  that  is  told 
of  a  king  who  had  certain  individu- 
als to  perform  before  him  to  make 
him  laugh  and  be  happy  when  he 
seemed  to  be  downcast,  otherwise 
than  happy.  A  particular  fool,  for 
so  they  were  called,  had  presented 
to  him  a  token,  I  believe  a  cane; 
and  the  king  told  him  whenever  he 
found  a  bigger  fool  than  he  was,»to 
hand  him  the  cane.  The  story  tells 
us  that  after  a  number  of  years,  this 
fool  was  called  before  the  king,  and 
the  king  was  going  to  take  his  final 
journey,  the  journey  that  we  all  will 
take  sooner  or  later;  and  the  fool 
stood  before  the  king  and  said, 
"Where  are  you  going?  Where  do 
you  expect  to  go,  now  that  you  are 
dying?"  And  the  king  said,  "I  do 
not  know."  And  the  fool  said, 
"Take  the  cane." 

As  I  sat  yesterday  and  heard  the 
plea  of  the  man  who  presides  over 
our  meeting  today,  to  the  young 
men  of  Israel,  I  thought  of  some  of 


ELDER  E.  IV.  CROFT 


131 


the  experiences  that  I  have  encoun- 
tered as  a  practicing  physician.  I 
have  watched  all  my  life  some  of  the 
things  that  my  mother  taught  me  as 
a  boy,  and  I  have  found  that  she 
told  me  the  truth  about  this  great 
latter-day  work,  and  about  some 
other  things  about  my  nature  that  1 
did  not  understand  as  a  boy.  She 
told  me  that  the  Lord  had  given  me 
appetites  and  passions,  that  if  prop- 
erly controlled  and  governed,  they 
were  to  be  a  blessing  to  me  all  my 
life ;  but,  on  the  other  hand,  if  I  ever 
became  the  slave  to  any  of  them, 
that  I  would  be  in  the  most  abject 
slavery.    She  talked  about  them  as 
masters,  who  when  once  they  have 
the  fetters  of  slavery  wrapped  about 
a  human  being,  have  no  mercy  and 
are  the  downfall  of  thousands  of 
boys  and  girls.    Yesterday,  while 
Brother  McKay  made  that  beautiful 
plea  to  the  youth  of  Zion  to  con- 
serve their  manhood,  their  minds, 
and  their  bodies  for  the  great  and 
glorious  work  of  God  in  which  we 
are  engaged,  I  thought  of  the  things 
that  my  mother  told  me;' and  this 
afternoon,  in  the  moment  that  is 
left  me,  I  would  like  to  say  a  word 
to  our  boys,  the  youth  of  Zion. 

I  believe  that  I  have  had  experi- 
ences that  have  taught  me  one  thing 
that  I  want  to  give  you  here  this  af- 
ternoon. 

I  heard  a  great  man  make  this 
statement  to  a  class  of  his  students, 
"Boys,  there  are  certain  conditions 
in  you  as  human  beings,  certain  pas- 
sions, that  unless  taken  care  of,  will 
become  the  master  of  you ;  and 
there  is  one  the  gratification  of 
which  is  stronger  than  the  desire 
for  self-preservation."  I  have 
watched  in  my  experience  as  a  phy- 
sician, and  I  know  that  man  spoke 
the  truth!  and  I  testify  to  you,  my 
young  brethren  and  sisters,  as  a 


man  of  experience  in  this  regard, 
that  there  is  no  protection  you  can 
give  a  young  man  that  will  equip 
him  like  the  protection  that  this 
Church  gives. 

Up  in  our  stake  the  other  night, 
we  had  the  Attorney  General  of 
Wyoming,  Mr.  Preston,  talk  to  us 
on  the  Liberty  Loan.  I  know  he 
will  not  care  if  I  repeat  his  thought 
to  you,  because  he  spoke  in  all  earn- 
estness, and  he  told  me  after  the 
meeting  that  he  spoke  from  the  bot- 
tom of  his  heart.  He  said  :  "I  have 
watched  during  this  great  war,  es- 
pecially since  Uncle  Sam  called  his 
sons  to  the  colors  and  we  sent  them 
across  the  seas  to  fight  in  this  great 
ant  glorious  cause  of  ours,  in  the 
districts  where  your  'Mormon'  peo- 
ple live,  and  I  have  discovered  that 
in  all  the  requirements  in  the  matter 
of  Thrift  Stamps  and  War  Savings 
Stamps  and  Liberty  Bonds,  and  vol- 
unteering, and  in  the  selective  draft, 
that  the  Latter-day  Saint  people 
have  gone  over  the  top  in  a  more 
glorious  way  than  anything  that  I 
have  ever  seen  in  my  life." 

"Now,"  I  told  him,  "Mr.  Preston, 
that  is  not  surprising  to  me,  and  it 
would  not  be  surprising  to  you  if 
you  knew  the  hearts  of  our  people 
as  I  know  them,  and  if  you  knew 
what  we  think  of  the  flag  and  what 
we  think  of  the  Constitution,  as  I 
know." 

You  will  remember  last  April  a 
prominent  man  stood  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle here  and  spoke  of  the  di- 
vinity of  the  Constitution  of  the 
United  States.  I  heard  him  make 
a  similar  talk  in  the  theatre  in  Chey- 
enne, and  came  to  Salt  Lake  with 
him ;  and  I  told  him  after  he  was 
through  with  his  talk,  in  a  conversa- 
tion with  him,  "Your  talk  certainlv 
found  lodgment  in  my  heart,  for  I 
have  been  taught  as  a  boy  to  honor 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States  as  the  greatest  document 
that  has  guided  any  government  in 
the  history  of  the  world,  and,  more 
than  that,  I  have  been  taught  to  be- 
lieve that  it  was  divinely  given  to 
the  world." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  no 
wonder  that  Latter-day  Saints  ap- 
preciate the  position  our  country  is 
in,  and  appreciate  the  opportunity 
that  comes  to  them  to  aid  our  Gov- 
ernment, for  we  know  what  it  is, 
and  we  know  that  while  there  are 
mistakes  on  the  part  of  men  who 
administer  the  laws,  we  know  as 
God  knows,  and  he  gave  us  this 
Constitution,  that  it  is  divine,  and 
we  know  that  when  we  turned  our 
eyes  toward  poor  stricken  Europe, 
we  were  doing  God's  service.  We 
saw  early  in  the  war,  those  of  us 
who  stopped  to  think,  only  one 
thing,  and  that  was  the  adversary 
endeavoring  once  more  to  throttle 
the  liberty  that  God  gave  us  when 
"the  stars  of  morning  sang  to- 
gether, and  all  the  sons .  of  God 
shouted  for  joy."  We  knew  that 
there  never  was,  and  perhaps  can 
never  be  a  man,  closer  to  the  being 
who  proposed  to  make  you  and 
me  go  back  whether  we  wanted  to 
or  not,  and  be  saved.  There  never 
has  been  a  mortal,  as  far  as  my 
judgment  can  go,  that  has  been  as 
close  to  that  individual  as  the  pres- 
ent ruler  of  Germany. 

As  I  look  at  this  war,  I  can  see 
so  many  good  things  that  will  come. 
I  can  see,  too,  that  the  Lord  is  with 
his  people.  Out  there  in  my  little 
home  town  at  Cowley,  we  have 
not  a  boy  left.  Practically  all 
of  them  volunteered,  there  have 
been  very  few  of  them  drafted ; 
and  I  know  what  is  in  their  hearts. 
I  know  that  they  have  not  gone 
over  there  with  any  intention  of 


slaughtering  their  fellow  men  un- 
necessarily ;  I  know,  too,  that  they 
have  not  gone  over  there  with  the 
purpose  in  their  hearts  of  changing 
the  boundaries  of  countries ;  but 
their  mission,  as  they  know  it,  and 
we  know  it,  is  to  change  the  hearts 
of  men ;  and  when  they  see  that  we 
have  done  that,  they  will  be  willing 
to  say  Amen  to  their  work  across 
the  water,  and  will  come  back  here 
and  again  be  sifted  into  the  Church 
and  into  our  country.  They  will 
have  learned  some  of  the  lessons  of 
life  that  you  and  I  could  not  teach 
them,  and  their  fathers  and  moth- 
ers could  not  teach  them.  They  will 
have  learned  things  that  will  make 
them  some  of  the  best  boys  and 
some  of  the  best  men  that  we  will 
ever  have  in  our  country. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I 
am  thankful  above  all  things,  this 
afternoon,  that  I  can  sit  in  that 
grand  old  building  [the  Taber- 
nacle], in  this  one,  or  any  other 
place,  and  have  go  into  my  heart 
the  words  of  the  servants  of  God. 
I  am  not  so  particular  about  how 
it  is  said,  or  who  says  it :  the  thing 
that  I  am  particular  about  is  that 
my  own  heart  be  a  receptacle  for 
the  word  of  God  and  a  place 
in  which  the  teachings  of  this 
Church  can  find  lodgment,  for  I  tes- 
tify to  you  in  words  of  soberness, 
that  you  cannot  find  anything  like 
it  outside  of  this  Church,  you  can- 
not find  anything  that  can  direct 
you  as  can  this  Church  and  the  ser- 
vants of  God  whom  he  has  chosen. 

So  I  am  thankful,  today,  above 
all  other  things,  that  my  father  and 
my  mother,  in  the  little  old  isle  of 
England,  saw  and  heard  a  "Mor- 
mon" elder,  and  came  to  this  coun- 
try, and  that  I  have  had  the  priv- 
ilege of  over  thirty  years  of  work  in 
the  Church  ;  and  I  say  to  you  that 


ELDER  E.  IV.  CROFT 


133 


while  I  love  my  profession,  and 
while  I  love  to  work  in  the  town, 
in  the  city,  in  the  state,  or  in  the 
nation,  or  anywhere  else  that  I  can 
do  anything  for  humanity — it  is  the 
work  in  this  Church  that  brings 
joy  to  my  soul  and  satisfaction  to 
life. 

I  know,  too,  that  there  has,  never 
been  a  thing  taugjht  tme  \hat  J 
have  had  to  be  retaught,  or  had  to 
relearn  ;  and  I  cannot  say  that  for 
anything  else  that  I  have  ever  stud- 
ied. I  have  dug  and  plugged  along 
in  school,  and  gotten  things  from 
what  I  supposed  to  be  science,  and 
I  have  had  to  absolutely  remodel 
my  learning,  and  adjust  it  to  the 
development  of  that  particular  sci- 
ence. But,  with  the  work  of  God, 
the  science  of  theology,  as  directed 
by  our  Lord  and  Master  Jesus 
Christ,  ever  since  that  memorable 
day  when  he  shone  the  light  of 
truth  and  knowledge  of  a  living 
God  into  the  hearfof  Joseph  Smith, 
those  things  have  not  been  in  doubt ; 
and  from  that  clay  to  the  present, 
we  Latter-day  Saints  have  not  had 
to  relearn  anything  that  the  Church 
has  ever  given  us  ;  but  we  can  sit 
down  with  it  and  study  it  and  meas- 
ure it  by  any  measurement  that  man 
might  hand  us  to  use,  and  it  never 
fails  to  follow  along  with  any  true 
science  or  any  truth  that  has  ever 
been  given  to  the  world. 

May  God  grant  that  we  may-  have 
his  Spirit  always  with  us,  for  I  as- 
sure you  and  testify  to  you,  that  I 
know  that  there  is  no  other  guide  to 
our  feet,  there  is  no  other  lamp  to 
our  faith,  there  is  no  security  but 
direction  by  the  Spirit  of  God ;  and 
you  brethren  of  the  priesthood,  let 
me  ask  you  this  question  as  the  last 
word,  "Is  there  anything  that  you 
will  take  from  this  world — or  you 
mothers,   heirs  to  the  priesthood 


with  your  husbands,  is  there  any- 
thing you  will  take  out  of  mortality 
— that  you  do  not  get  through  the 
priesthood  that  our  brethren  hold? 
If  there  is,  name  it.  No,  your 
hearts  tell  you  that  there  are  only  a 
few  things  that  you  will  ever  get 
away  from  this  world  with,  and 
those  few  things  are  the  precious 
gifts  of  God  to  us  and  our  children, 
who  could  not  be  bound  to  us  for 
all  time  and  all  eternity  but  through 
the  channels  of  the  holy  Melchize- 
dek  priesthood.  May  God  grant 
that  we  may  magnify  it  as  brethren 
in  the  priesthood,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

E  LDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD. 

(Of  the.  Bureau  of  Information,  Salt 
Lake  City.) 

I  am  very  glad  to  be  here  for  the 
second  time  today,  worshiping  the 
Lord  in  such  an  assembly.  I  have 
enjoyed  listening  to  the  testimonies 
of  my  brethren.  I  appreciate,  as  do 
they,  my  membership  in  this 
Church.  In  connection  with  my 
work  upon  this  block,  which  is  go- 
ing on  day  after  clay,  year  after 
year,  I  meet  people  from  all  coun- 
tries, of  all  faiths  and  creeds  ;  and 
every  time  I  talk  with  regard  to 
our  work  and  the  organization  of 
the  Church,  my  heart  swells  within 
me,  for  I  am  more  proud  of  it  than 
ever. 

A  gentleman  came  here  some 
time  ago,  the  editor  of  the  Baltimore 
Southern  Methodist,  administer  of 
prominence.  He  spent  a  little  time 
here,  and  went  around  with  one  of 
our  business  men  who  acted  as  a 
guide,  and  then  he  asked  if  he 
could  not  see  the  gentleman  who 
had  charge  of  the  work,  and  came 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


into  my  office.  He  was  astonished  at 
the  work  that  we  were  doing.  He 
was  perfectly  amazed  at  the  infor- 
mation that  had  been  given  him 
with  regard  to  the  organization  of 
our  Church.  He  admired  every 
phase  of  our  work,  and  then  he 
went  home  again,  and  in  his  own 
paper,  wrote  a  very  long  article 
with  regard  to  his  visit  here  and 
the  vitality  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
Amongst  other  things,  he  said,  "I 
was  informed  by  a  business  man 
that  he  had  leisure  from  time  to 
time,  and  rejoiced  in  coming  and 
giving  his  time  unto  the  work  of 
informing  the  strangers  of  the  faith 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  And  then," 
he  said,  "I  was  told  that  when  a 
crowd  of  tourists  came  there,  if 
none  of  these  guides  were  present, 
the  gentleman  in  charge  could  call 
upon  the  'phone  for  a  prominent 
business  man,  a  prominent  banker, 
or  a  lady  of  leisure,  and  they  would 
respond  readily,  and  go  around  with 
the  tourists,  describing  to  them  the 
organization  of  the  Church  and 
the  faith  of  the  Latter-dav  Saints." 
And  then  he  remarked,  "I  wonder 
how  many  Methodist  business  men 
there  are  in  the  city  of  Baltimore 
who  would  respond  to  my  call,  or 
who  could  give  an  intelligent  ex-' 
position  of  their  faith  or  the  organ- 
ization of  my  Church,  if  they  should 
be  called." 

Amongst  all  these  churches  and 
their  membership,  there  is  not  the 
live  spirit  of  testimony  that  there 
is  among  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I 
rejoice  in  this  work.  I  rejoice  that 
I  am  a  member  of  this  Church,  that 
it  is  a  living  Church,  that  there  is 
power  in  it.  It  is  so  organized  that 
we  can  take  hold  of  any  movement 
and  push  it  through  to  success ;  and 
hence  the  report  that  our  brother 


brings  us  from  the  Big  Horn  stake, 
in  Wyoming. 

In  corroboration,  in  order  that 
you  young  men  many  really  feel  as 
I  feel  with  regard  to  the  Church, 
I  thought  of  a  little  paragraph  that 
was  published  a  short  time  ago.  In 
July,  1917,  a  prominent  Utahn,  who 
had  been  appointed  by  the  Govern- 
ment, for  certain  service  in  our 
State,  made  this  statemnt  in  com- 
pliment to  the  people  of  Utah : 

/ 

"For  me  to  undertake  the  reorgan- 
ization of  conservation  forces  in  the 
State  at  this  time  would  be  like  try- 
ing to  'paint  the  lily.'  The  forces  now 
organized  are  doubtless  working  more 
effectively  than  similar  committees 
will  be  able  to  work  in  any  State  of 
the  Union;  and  while  not  a  'Mormon' 
myself,  I  cannot  refrain  from  paying 
the  'Mormon'  Church  and  the  'Mor- 
mon' people  the  compliment  that  they 
are  now,  through  the  professional  and 
practical  and  energetic  local  defense 
committees,  providing  the  government 
with  a  model  of  .efficiency  in  organiza- 
tion for  food  conservation;  and  I  only 
wish  every  state  in  the  Union  had  the 
nucleus  of  such  an  organization  in 
entering  into  this  most  important 
work." 

I  am  proud  of  the  organization 
of  our  Church,  and  the  way  that  we 
can  handle  matters  for  the  benefit 
of  our  children,  for  the  benefit  of 
the  United  States.  But  I  come  back 
again  to  this  thought;  What  is  the 
Church?  Not  that  monument  of 
stone  over  there,  not  that  oval  shap- 
ed dome,  the  Tabernacle,  not  the 
Assembly  Hall,  not  your  chapels 
nor  your  churches  that  are  built  of 
stone  and  brick  in  various  parts  of 
the  state,  or  wherever  the  Church 
exists.  The  Church  is  the  member- 
ship thereof,  you  who  are  present, 
and  all  the  rest  of  the  live  members 
of  it ;  and  the  Church  has  vitality 
because  we,  the  members  of  it,  are 


ELDER  BENJAMIN  GODDARD 


135 


willing  to  consecrate  ourselves  to 
its  service,  we  are  willing-  to  re- 
spond to  every  call  that  is  made  up- 
on us.  If  the  Church  calls  for  a 
tenth  of  our  income,  we  are  will- 
'  ing  to  give  it,  and  witness  our  de- 
votion by  our  giving. 

A  minister  came  to  me  a  short 
time  ago.  He  was  going  to  the 
Northwest.  He  had  been  appointed 
by  one  of  the  churches  to  investigate 
the  tithing  system  of  the  "Mormon" 
Church.  He  came  here  to  find  out 
something  about  it.  We  showed 
him  our  system  at  the  Presiding 
Bishop's  office,  and  explained  to  him 
how  it  worked,  how  these  bishops 
gave  their  time  to  the  work,  how 
many  of  the  brethren  were  laboring 
in  various  capacities  to  perform 
their  labors  unselfishly  and  freely, 
and  how  liberally  our  members  re- 
spond to  that  law  of  God  in  the 
payment  of  their  tithing.  After  he 
had  visited  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
office,  and  we  had  discussed  this 
tithing  question  at  some  length,  he 
asked  the  very  pertinent  question, 
"How  do  you  think  that  would 
work  in  our  church?  You  know 
what  I  am  here  for.  I  am  trying 
to  find  out  just  how  you  work  this 
tithing  question,  and  if  possible, 
arrange  so  that  it  can  be  adapted 
to  Methodism." 

"Well,"  I  said,  "frankly,  do  you 
want  me  to  tell  you  just  how  I  feel 
about  it?" 

"O  yes,"  was  the  reply,  "tell  me 
just  how  you  feel." 

"I  think  it  would  be  an  utter  fail- 
ure. You  cannot  introduce  it  in 
vour  church  and  make  a  success  of 
it.  Why?  In  the  first  place,  your 
membersip  does  not  recognize  it  as 
a  law  of  God  given  to  them  .directly 
by  revelation  in  this  day-  In  the 
second  place,  they  may  not  trust 
their  leaders.    They  do  not  know 


how  the  money  will  be  spent.  They 
do  not  know  but  that  numerous  sal- 
aries will  be  paid  to  the  very  persons 
who  are  to  administer  the  funds. 
The  difference  between  your  organ- 
ization and  ours  stamps  our  organ- 
ization as  divine.    Our  membership 
know  that  the  tithing  which  they 
pay  unto  the  Lord  comes  back  again 
to  them;  and  with  that  tithing  we 
go  into  southern  Utah  or  elsewhere, 
and  if  a  dam  is  washed  out,  and  the 
people  might  starve  without  relief, 
we  build  their  dam  with  the  tithing. 
If  our  people  need  educational  help, 
we  establish    our  Church  schools 
amongst   them    from   our  tithing 
fund.    If  we  have  widows  and  or- 
phans that  have  to  be  maintained, 
or  if  we  have  distress  of  any  nature, 
from  our  tithing  funds  we  minister 
especially   at   such   times   to  the 
people ;  and  our  membership  recog- 
nize that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  a  grand  fra- 
ternal organization  for  their  benefit, 
for  their  relief — we  need  no  others 
— and    they    have    confidence  in 
these  bishops  and  in  these  presidents 
of  stakes  who  are  giving  their  time, 
who  are  giving  their  energies,  who 
are  laboring  continuously  for  the 
p"ood  of  their  people  ;  and  not  work- 
ing for  salaries,  and  they  are  not 
getting  them.  There  is  this  differ- 
ence   between    our    Church  and 
others.    I  do  not  believe  it  would 
work." 

With  the  Latter-day  Saints,  how- 
ever, it  is  different,  our  membership 
recognizes  tithing  as  a  divine  insti- 
tution. 

Permit  me  to  .draw  attention  to 
a  particular  passage  of  Scripture 
that  has  always  impressed  me.  as  I 
have  no  doubt  it  does  you.  Com- 
menting upon  our  Church  again, 
the  Apostle  Peter,  speaking  with  re- 
gard tn  the  membership,  says,  "Ye 


136 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


also,  as  lively  stones,  are  built  up 
a  spiritual  house,  a  holy  priesthood, 
to  offer  up  spiritual  sacrifices,  ac- 
ceptable to  God  by  Jesus  Chrisc." 
Who  are  we,  therefore  ?  We  are  the 
living-  stones  in  this  great  edifice,  in 
this  Church  of  God.  It  is  built  up 
of  us. 

Now,  what  else  is  there  to  it?  In 
the  second  chapter  of  Ephesians, 
the  Apostle  Peter  says,  "Ye  are  no 
more  strangers  and  foreigners,  but 
fellow  citizens  with  the  saints,  and 
of  the  household  of  God,  and  are 
built  upon  the  foundation  of  the 
apostles  and  prophets,  Jesus  Christ 
himself  being  the  chief  corner- 
stone." This  is  the  living  Church 
Christ  the  foundation,  Christ  the 
revelator,  Christ  who  gave  unto  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the  keys,  who 
spake  to  him  personally,  with  re- 
gard to  the  organization  of  this 
Church. 

And  in  this  Church,  what  have  we 
Latter-day  Saints  ?  An  organization 
which  we  should  be  proud  of.  At 
the  head,  prophets  and  apostles 
whom  we  can  sustain  with  all  our 
souls,  because  we  know  that  they 
are  laboring  with  an  eye  single  to 
the  glory  of  God,  and  for  the  bene- 
fit of  his  people.  O,  we  may  think 
sometimes,  these  apostles  have  a 
grand  time,  they  are  traveling  all 
the  time,  they  are  eating  the  best, 
etc.  I  admit  that  they  are  most  hos- 
pitably entertained.  You  are  glad 
to  receive  them.  But  my  soul  goes 
out  in  sympathy  to  these  apostles  of 
God.  They  have  consecrated  them- 
selves to  God's  service ;  and  from 
being  accustomed  to  having  the  best 
their  good  wives  could  prepare  for 
them,  accustomed  to  good  beds, 
accustomed  to  the  comforts  of 
home,  they  now  go  out  visiting  all 
the  stakes  of  Zion,  under  various 
conditions  and  enduring  many  dis- 


comforts, accepting  whatever  is  pro- 
vided for  them  and  thanking  the 
Lord  for  it;  or  traveling  40  or  50 
miles  over  rough  roads,  until  they 
are  almost  shaken  to  pieces ;  and 
they  come  back  home  and  in  a  day 
or  two,  off  again.  A  wife  of  one 
of  them  told  me  one  day  that  she 
hardly  knew  whether  she  had  a  hus- 
band or  not,  we  call  for  so  much  of 
their  time.  But  they  are  willing  to 
give  it.  We  love  them  because  of 
their  fidelity,  because  of  their  de- 
votion, and  it  is  their  labors  that 
make  us  strong. 

Prophets  and  apostles,  pastors 
teachers,  deacons,  presidents  of 
stakes,  bishops ;  and  in  the  various 
organizations,  we  have  everything 
that  could  minister  unto  our  wants 
— our  Relief  Society  caring  for  the 
sick,  and  the  dying,  and  burying  the 
dead ;  our  young  men's  organiza- 
tions, seeking  to  save  the  boys  and 
train  them  in  chastity ;  our  young 
women's  organization,  teaching 
virtue  and  purity  unto  the  girls,  and 
striving  to  lead  them  in  the  path  of 
righteousness :  our  Sunday  Schools, 
our  Religion  Classes,  our  Primary, 
ex>cd,  "helps  in  government."  I 
thank  God  that  we  have  such  a 
Church,  and  that  it  ministers  unto 
us  so  many  good  things.  God  bless 
the  man  that  stands  at  the  head.  If 
there  ever  was  a  time  when  Israel 
shouH  bow  in  praver  and  plead  with 
God,  it  is  now,  for  never  could  you 
find  a  man  Avho  would  be  more  de- 
voted, who  would  set  a  better  ex- 
ample, who  would  live  a  cleaner 
life,  who  would  ''o  all  that  God 
would  have  him  '1o,  to  the  laving 
down  of  his  l:fe.  than  President 
Toseoh  F.  Smith.  We  need  him.  In 
my  heart  I  praise  God  that  he  has 
b^en  able  to  be  with  us  at  this  con- 
ference, that  we  have  heard  his 
voice.   May  God  bless  and  strength- 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


137 


en  him  is  the  prayer  of  all  Israel. 

And  now,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, my  heart  is  full  .of  thanksgiv- 
ing for  the  blessings  that  have  come 
to  me  and  to  mine  in  this  Church. 
My  hope  and  prayer  is  that  I  may 
so  live  that  I  may  receive  the  bless- 
ings promised  the  faithful,  and  that 
I  may  have  every  member  of  my 
family  forever  with  me. 

May  God  strengthen  and  sustain 
us,  and  lead  us  to  the  accomplish- 
ment of  good,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  General  Authorities,  as  pre- 
sented in  the  Tabernacle,  were  then 
presented  by  Brother  Goddar.d,  ami 
sustained  unanimously. 

ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY. 

(Of  the  Council  of  Twelve  Apostles.) 

Ideals  and  character-building — A  Col- 
lege illustration — Breaking  ideals  is 
breaking  character — An  illustration 
of  a  mother  and  her  son  who  went 
to  war — Make  Prohibition  safe,  by 
voting  in  November  to  adopt  the 
Prohibition  amendment  to  the  Utah 
state  Constitution. 

At  the  conclusion  of  this  pleas- 
ing, and  most  profitable  session, 
which  is  one  of  ten  general  ses- 
sions held  during  this  conference, 
I  desire  to  say  just  this;  that  not 
one  of  us  can  go  back  to  our  homes 
with  the  same  responsibility  which 
we  had  when  we  left.  Our  pres- 
ence, our  impression-s,  our  accept- 
ance of  the  principles  which  have 
been  enunciated  throughout  these 
various  sessions,  have  placed  great- 
er obligations  on  us  than  we  have 
ever  had  before.  'To  him  who 
knoweth  to  do  good  and  doeth  it 
not,  to  him  it  is  sin."  I  never  heard 
one  of  our  brethren  bear  testimony 
to  the  divinity  of  this  work,  with- 


out feeling  that  the  strength  and 
growth  of  his  character  depends  up- 
on a  consistent  life  with  that  testi- 
mony ;  and  it  makes  character  to 
live  in  harmony  with  man's  ideals, 
or  at  least  to  strive  to  live  in  har- 
mony with  them. 

I  can  illustrate  what  I  mean  by 
relating  an  incident  of  what  hap- 
pened to  two  of  our  boys  at  col- 
lege. They  had  been  taught  as  you 
boys  and  I  have  been  taught,  that 
next  to  bur  lives,  we  should  cher- 
ish the  chastity  referred  to  by  Dr. 
Croft. 

One  of  these  boys  noticed  that 
there  was  a  laxity  among  his  class- 
mates, in  regard  to  that  cleanliness 
in  association  with  other  boys  and 
girls ;  and  after  a  few  months  at 
college,  he  partook  of  a  different 
spirit  from  the  one  he  had  in  his 
home,  and  one  night,  he  said  to  his 
companion,  who  was  older  than  he, 
"I  am  going  out  tonight  with  those 
fellows." 

"Well,  you  better  not,"  said  his 
companion. 

"Oh,"  he  said,  "I  do  not  know! 
Those  fellows  have  a  good  time, 
take  their  wine,  have  their  cigar- 
ettes and  their  cigars,  they  enjoy 
themselves ;  and  here  we  are  re- 
strained. They  get  their  lessons, 
they  are  doing  just  as  well  in  col- 
lege as  we  are,  and  I  am  going  out 
with  them.  I  am  not  so  sure  that 
our  ideals  are  necessary,  anyhow." 

The  older  one  walked  up,  put  his 
hand  on  his  companion's  shoulder, 
and  said,  "Those  boys  may  be  get- 
ting along  all  right  in  school,  they 
may  do  these  things  to  which  you 
refer  with  impunity,  but  you  can't." 

"Why?" 

"Because  you  know  better.  And 
once  you  break  through  that  ideal, 
vour  character  is  broken." 

Tt  was  the  best  lesson  he  learn- 


138 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


in  college,  and  I  am  very  glad  that 
he  learned  it  and  lived  it. 

I  have  thought  of  the  application 
of  that  principle  to  our  boys  who 
are  at  the  front.  These  boys  must  be 
brave,  they  cannot  shirk  a  duty, 
their  blows  must  be  mighty  in  de- 
fense of  righteousness,  their  power 
of  resistance  must  be  great,  or  else 
they  are  going  to  weaken,  weaken 
their  characters,  and  come  back 
men  unfit  to  take  their  places  in  this 
great  nation,  to  say  nothing  of  this 
great  Church.  Why?  Why,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  because  they 
know.  They  know  what  chastity 
means.  They  know  what  the  right- 
eousness of  the  cause  for  which 
they  are  fighting  is.  And  when  their 
mothers  kissed  them  good-bye,  they 
went  with  a  last  impression  that 
they  must  maintain  that  ideal  of 
purity.  You  let  a  boy  fall  down, 
and  he  is  miserable,  because  he  has 
not  lived  up  to  what  he  knows  to 
be  right. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  picture  of 
an  Arizona  mother's  parting  with 
her  son.  It  was  about  a  year  and  a 
half  ago,  when  we  first  entered  the 
war.  He  was  one  of  the  first  to  go. 
The  mother,  with  her  heart  almost 
breaking,  went  with  him  to  the  re- 
cruiting office,  and  in  the  presence 
of  a  United  States  officer,  when 
she  was  taking  her  last  good-bye, 
said,  "John,  I  want  you  to  come 
back  to  me  just  as  clean  and  sweet 
as  you  are  now,  or  do  not  come 
back  at  all." 

And  the  officer  said,  "Why, 
madam,  you  must  not  expect  that 
of  your  boy." 

"I  do  expect  it  of  him,"  she  re- 
turned, "and  every  'Mormon' 
mother  expects  it  of  her  boy.  I  do 
expect  it  of  you,  John,  and  I  know 
you  will ;"  and  with  that  she  gave 
him  a  caress  and  went  back  to  her 


home,  and  he  to  fight  for  his  coun- 
try. 

Don't  yOu  think  that  boy  will 
strike  for  righteousness,  for  the 
ideals  of  home,  and  the  ideals  of  his 
character?  He  knows  what  is 
right;  and  if  he  is  going  to  be  a 
man  of  strong  character,  he  must 
maintain  those  ideals. 

And  so  to  us,  I  would  like  to  say 
at  parting  that  the  thoughts  that 
have  been  awakened  in  our  minds, 
the  resolutions  that  have  been  made 
in  our  hearts,  have  placed  upon  us 
greater  responsibility  than  we  have 
ever  had  before.  God  help  us  to 
be  true  to  them,  and  to  radiate  that 
strength  of  character,  that  faith  and 
confidence  in  God  and  his  eternal 
work  that  will  encourage  others  to 
seek  higher  ideals,  and  arouse  in 
others'  hearts  higher  hopes  and  as- 
pirations. . 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  re- 
joiced in  this  gathering,  in  every 
gathering  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
because  the  power  of  salvation  is 
here — salvation  here  and  now — 
happiness,  peace  and  prosperity 
here. 

I  leave  my  blessing  with  you, 
with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  all 
Israel,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

.Brethren  and  sisters,  on  the  next 
election  day,  the  people  of  Utah  are 
asked  to  vote  on  an  amendment  to 
the  Constitution  of  the  State  of 
Utah.  There-  are  several  amend- 
ments. I  am  going  to  mention  only 
one.  It  pertains  to  Prohibition  in 
our  State.  As  you  know,  we  have 
Prohibition  by  legislative  enact- 
ment, but  it  is  not  a  part  of  the 
Constitution  of  the  State,  now  if 
we  can  make  it  a  part  of  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  State,  Prohibition 
is  safe.  Now,  the  suggestion  is  that 


ELDER  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


139 


the  prohibition  statute  be  made  a 
rart  of  the  Constitution  of  the 
State.  I  am  sure  there  is  not  a 
member  of  the  Church  anywhere 
who  does  not  approve  of  this,  there 
is  not  a  law-abiding  citizen  through- 
out the  state  who  does  not  desire 
it.  But  here  is  the  danger :  we  may 
not  think  of  voting  it !  I  am  simply 
mentioning  it  so  that  when  you  go 
to  the  polls  you  will  look  at  that 
amendment  and  vote  "Yes." 

We  desire  to  thank  the  brethren 
of  this  male  chorus  for  the  excel- 
lent service  rendered  this  afternoon, 
and  the  organist,  and  you,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  who  have  rendered 
your  assistance  here  by  your  atten- 
tion, and  the  spirit  that  has  radi- 
ated from  your  good  souls.  We 
thank  these  brethren  of  the  stake 
presidencies  and  appreciate  the 
spirit  they  have  manifested  and  the 
testimonies  they  have  borne. 

The  choir  sang :  "Set  the  lower 
lights  along  the  shore." 

Elder  A.  S.  Workman,  Stake 
president  of  Sunday  Schools  of 
Deseret  stake,  offered  benediction. 


CLOSING  SESSION. 

In  the  Tabernacle,  the  conference 
was  called  to  order  at  2  o'clock  p. 
m.,  by  President  Anthon  H.  Lund, 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  presid- 
ing. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang : 
"Redeemer  of  Israel." 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn :  "Great 
God,  attend  while  Zion  sings." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Ed- 
ward H.  Anderson. 

A  trio,  "God  be  merciful,"  was 
sung  by  Evan  Arthur,  Evangeline 
Thomas,  and  James  H.  Nielson. 


ELDER  CHARLES  H.  HART. 

(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

The  singing  of  this  conference 
has  seemed  to  me  to  be  particularly 
appropriate.  I  have  seen  new 
meaning  in  many  of  the  old  songs 
which  have  been  sung.  To  begin 
with  we  sang : 

Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad 
morning, 

Joy  to  the  lands  that  in  darkness 

have  lain! 
Hushed  be  the  accents  of  sorrow  and 

mourning, 
Zion   in   triumph   begins   her  glad 

reign. 

i 

Hark!  from  all  lands,  from  the  isles 
of  the  ocean, 
Praise    to  Jehovah    ascending  on 
high; 

Fallen  are  engines  of  war  and  com- 
motion, 

Shouts  of  salvation  are  rending  the 
sky. 

The  next  to  the  last  line  is  pro- 
phetic for  the  future ;  but  it  is  cer- 
tainly appropriate  for  us  to  exclaim 
today,  "Joy  to  the  lands  that  in 
darkness  have  lain." 

We  sang  also  the  song  composed 
by  Brother  Parley  P.  Pratt: 

"The   morning  breaks,   the  shadows 
flee;  • 

Lo!  Zion's  standard  is  unfurled 
The  dawning  of  a  brighter  day 
Majestic  rises  on  the  world. 

The  clouds  of  error  disappear 
Before  the  rays  of  truth  divine; 

The  glory,  bursting  from  afar. 

Wide   o'er   the  nations   soon  will 
shine." 

And  others  of  the  songs  were 
particularly  appropriate  and  strik- 
ing at  this  time.  If  we  understand 
the  word  "Zion"  in  the  larger  mean- 
ing of  referring  to  North  and  South 
America,  the  land  of  Joseph,  ther 
there  is  an  added  meaning  to  these 


140 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


words  which  I  have  read.  In  order 
to  understand  what  this  glad  news 
means  to  countries  like  Belgium 
and  France  and  other  nations  that 
soon  shall  be  liberated,  we  must 
visualize  some  of  their  sufferings. 
I  think  this  people  should  be  able 
to  sympathize  very  fully  with  these 
oppressed  peoples,  because  there 
have  been  some  things  in  our  his- 
tory which  should  help  us  to  be  very 
sympathetic.  We,  whose  ancestors 
had  the  experiences  of  migrating 
from  New  York  and  Ohio  to  Mis- 
souri and  from  thence  to  Illinois,  and 
who  witnessed  the  slaying  of  the 
prophet  and  the  patriarch  while  un- 
der official  protection,  and  the  wan- 
derings of  the  people  from  thence 
to  the  Rocky  Mountains,  and  being- 
separated,  husband  from  wife 
and  child  from  parent,  in  connection 
with  the  call  of  the  Mormon  Battal- 
ion, we  appreciate  the  joy  and  the 
peace  that  we  have  here  in  these 
mountain  valleys,  and  yet  we  have 
learned  so  well  the  lesson  taught  in 
the  parable  of  the  Good  Samaritan, 
that  we  know  who  our  neighbor 
is ;  and  so  with  the  sufferings  of 
our  brethren  and  sisters  across  the 
great  waters,  we  are  able  to  sym- 
pathize, and  our  contemplation  of 
peace  here  is  only  of  short  duration, 
because  our  minds  go  to  our  suf- 
fering brethren  and  sisters  abroad. 

What  joy  must  come  to  the  hearts 
of  the  Belgians  today  as  they  realize 
that  their  deliverance  is  not  far  off, 
those  who  suffered  the  pangs  con- 
nected with  the  abuse  of  the  doc- 
trine of  hostages.  Lieutenant  Eber- 
lein  confesses  how  he  clubbed  with 
the  butt  of  the  gun,  hostages,  in 
order  to  have  them  take  perilous 
positions  so  that  their  own  country- 
men in  seeking  to  defend  themselves 
would  slay  these  hostages.  That  is 
almost  like  "seething  the  kid  in  its 


mother's  milk,"  or  like  the  incident 
of  which  Byron  writes,  of  the  eagle 
wounded  with  the  arrow,  and  yet 
the  keener  pain  was  when  he  real- 
ized that  it  was  a  pinion  of  its  own 
which  had  sped  the  shaft  which 
then  festered  in  its"  vitals. 

Notwithstanding  article  50  of  the 
agreement  at  the  second  Hague  con- 
vention, to  which  the  German  Em- 
pire was  a  party,  there  were  many 
abuses  of  the  doctrine  of  penalties. 
First,  five  hundred  million  francs 
were  levied  upon  Belgium,  that 
stripped  nation,  then  the  subject  of 
charity  froirf  other  lands ;  then  a 
monthly  levy  of  at  first  forty  mil- 
lion francs,  then  increased  to  fifty 
and  afterwards  to  sixty  million 
francs  that  those  people,  with  much 
of  their  machinery  shipped  to  Ger- 
many, their  raw  material  either  cut 
off  or  taken  from  them,  besides  the 
individual  penalizing  of  various 
towns  and  cities. 

But  one  of  the  most  deplorable 
incidents  in  the  occupation  by  Ger- 
many of  Belgium,  was  their  system 
of  deportations.  Contrary  to  article 
52  of  the  same  agreement  which  had 
been  entered  into,  some  of  those  de- 
ported were  required,  so  Minister 
Gerard  told  us,  to  manufacture  am- 
munition to  be  used  against  their 
countrymen.  Ninety  minutes  not- 
ice was  given  to  men  and  women  to 
prepare  for  the  deportation.  Tens 
of  thousands  were  deported  for  lab- 
or in  Germany  under  that  order. 
Many  of  the  orders  issued  against 
the  Belgians  were  expressly  re- 
quired to  be  carried  out  without 
mercy.  That  was  the  expression 
frequently  used  in  those  messages, 
that  they  were  to  be  carried  out 
without  mercy. 

One  of  the  correspondents,  Will 
Irwin,  in  the  Saturday  Evening  Post 
of  October  6,  1917,  said  : 


CHARLES  H.  HART. 


141 


Some  ten  or  a  dozen  American  cor- 
respondents, of  whoim  I  was  one, 
witnessed  the  first  German  drive 
through  Belgium.  Most  of  us  were 
so  appalled  and  horrified  by  what  we 
saw  as  to  become  anti-German  for 
life. 

Air.  Whitlock,  our  Minister  to 
Belgium,  reporting"  on  the  situation, 
said : 

They  have  dealt  a  mortal  blow  to 
any  prospect  they  may  ever  have  had 
of  being  tolerated  by  the  population 
of  Flanders;  in  tearing  away  from 
nearly  every  humble  home  in  the  land 
a  husband,  a  father  or  a  son  and 
brother,  they  have  lighted  a  fire  of 
hatred  that  will  never  go  out;  they 
have  brought  home  to  ever}'  heart  in 
the  land,  in  a  way  that  will  impress 
its  horrors  indelibly  on  the  memory 
of  three  generations,  a  realization  of 
what  German  methods  mean,  not  as 
with  the  early  atrocities  in  the  heat 
of  passion  and  the  first  lust  of  war, 
but  by  one  of  those  deeds  that  make 
one  despair  of  the  future  of  the  hu- 
man race,  a  deed  coldly  nlanned, 
studiously  matured,  and  deliberately 
and  systematically  executed,  a  deed 
so  cruel  that  German  soldiers  are  said 
to  have  wept  in  its  execution,  and  so 
monstrous  that  even  German  officers 
are  now  said  to  be  ashamed. 

This  is  from  an  official  report  of 
our  Minister  to  Belgium,  a  reliable 
and  conservative  man. 

Some  of  the  Belgian  petitions  ani 
appeals  read  very  much  like  some 
of  the  many  petitions  that  were 
offered  in  behalf  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  while  they  were  passing 
through  some  of  the  tribulations  to 
which  I  have  referred.  Here  is 
one : 

You  are  a  father,  you  know  that 
there  is  not  in  the  order  of  humanity 
a  right  more  honorable  or  more  holy 
than  that  of  the  family,  for  .every 
Christi?n  the  inviolability  of  God,  who 
created  the  family,  attaches  to  it.  The 
German  o..cers  who  have  been  bil- 


leted for  a  long  time  in  our  homes 
know  how  deep  in  our  hearts  we  of 
the  North  hold  family  affection,  and 
that  it  is  the  sweetest  thing  in  life  to 
us.  Thus  to  dismember  the  family  by 
tearing  youths  and  girls  from  their 
homes  is  not  war;  it  is  for  us  tortures 
and  the  worst  of  tortures — unlimited 
moral  torture.  The  violation  of  family 
rights  is  doubled  by  a  violation  of  the 
sacred  demands  of  morality.  Morality 
is  exposed  to  perils,  the  mere  idea  of 
which  is  revolting  to  every  honest 
man,  from  the  promiscuity  which  in- 
evitably accompanies  removals  en 
masse,  involving  mixture  of  the  sexes, 
or,  at  all  events,  of  persons  of  very 
unequal  moral  standing.  Young  girls 
of  irreproachable  life,  who  have  never 
committed  any  worse  offense  than  that 
of  trying  to  pick  up  some  hread  or  a 
few  potatoes  to  feed  a  numerous  fam- 
ily, and  who  have  besides  paid  the 
light  penalty  for  such  trespass,  have 
been  carried  off.  Their  mothers,  who 
have  watched  so  closely  over  them 
and  had  no  other  joy  than  that  of 
keeping  their  daughters  beside  them, 
in  the  absence  of  father  and  sons  fight- 
ing or  killed  at  the  front — these 
mothers  are  now  alone. 

And  Mr.  Herbert  Hoover,  giving 
an  official  report  of  the  conditions 
existing  in  Belgium  after  the  occu- 
pation by  Germany,  used  very 
strong  language : 

The  sight  of  the  destroyed  homes 
and  cities,  the  widow.ed  and  fatherless, 
the  destitute,  the  physical  misery  of  a 
people  but  partially  nourished  at  best 
the  deportation  of  men  by  tens  of 
thousands  to  slavery  in  German  mines 
and  factories,  the  execution  of  men 
and  women  for  paltry  effusions  of 
their  loyalty  to  their  country,  the 
sacking  of  every  resource  through 
financial  robbery,  tihe  battening  of 
armies  on  the  slender  produce  of  the 
country,  the  denudation  of  the  country 
of  cattle,  horses  and  textiles;  all  these 
things  we  had  to  witness,  dumb  to 
help  other  than  by  protest  and  svm- 
pathy,  during  this  long  and  terrible 
time — and  still  these  are  not  the 
events  of  battle  heat,  but  the  effects  of 
a  grinding  heel  of  a  race  demanding 
the  mastership  of  the  world. 


142 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


All  these  things  are  well  known  to 
the  world — but  what  can  never  be 
known  is  the  dumb  agony  of  the 
people,  the  expressionless  faces  of  mil- 
lions whose  souls  have  passed  the 
whole  gamut  of  emotions.  And  why? 
Because  these,  a  free  and  democratic 
people,  dared  plunge  their  bodies  be- 
fore the  march  ,of  autocracy. 

And  as  we  were  eloquently  told 
last  night  by  the  French  officer,  as 
to  France  fourteen  hundred  thous- 
and of  their  men  have  perished,  a 
like  number  seriously  wounded  ;  and 
our  English  officer  told  us  of  the 
great    numbers  that  England  has 
lost.    So,  if  the  day  is  approaching 
when  darkness  and  error  shall  flee 
away,  when  the  lands  that  in  dark- 
ness have  lain  shall  receive  the  light, 
will  there  not  be  great  rejoicing? 
We  rece'ved  word  last  night  that 
the    fourteen    terms   proposed  by 
President  Wilson  last  January  8th, 
that  this  law  which  had  gone  forth 
from  Zion  might  be  accepted  by  the 
Central  Powers,  one  of  which  pro- 
vides for  the  righting  of  the  wrongs 
against  Alsace  and  Lorraine.  Think 
of  the  joy  there  to  the  lands  which 
in  darkness  have  lain  to  those  people 
who  are  not  permitted  the  privilege 
of  their  own  language  or  to  inscribe 
upon  the  tombstones  the  names  and 
record  of  the  departed  in  the  native 
language  of  the  people. 

We  must  not  be  too  optimistic  in 
reference  to  the  prospect  for  im- 
mediate peace,  because  one  of  the 
great  obstacles  lies  in  the  fact  here- 
tofore suggested  by  American 
statesmen,  of  the  want  of  capacity 
for  convenanted  peace.  We  must 
not  grow  too  enthusiastic  because 
we  hear  the  shout  "Kamerad"  even 
by  a  nation,  because,  if  we  grant  an 
armistice  we  may  have  the  exper- 
ience that  we  had  when  we  protested 
against  the  sinking  of  the  Lusi- 
tania,   and   were   given  to  under- 


stand that  such  warfare  would 
cease,  only  to  find  that  upon  better 
preparation  the  work  was  renewed 
with  greater  energy ;  and  just  as  our 
New  York  boys  learned  last  week, 
when  the  word  "Kamerad"  was 
sounded  and  heeded  they  discovered 
a  little  later  it  was  only  for  an  op- 
portunity of  throwing  hand  gre- 
nades at  them.  So,  there  are  some 
■difficulti  es  in  the  way  yet  of  secur- 
ing- peace.  I  rejoice  that  we  are  not 
relaxing,  that  in  the  very  face  of 
the  announcement  that  the  Central 
Powers  are  willing  to  discuss  the 
fourteen  terms  specified  by  our  na- 
tion, that  our  Church  made  the  pur- 
chase today  of  a  quarter  of  a 
million  dollars  in  defense  of  liberty 
and  truth. 

Word  has  been  given  during  this 
conference  of  the  abuse  of  the  free- 
dom of  speech.    Freedom  of  speech 
and  of  the  press  are  glorious  rights 
guaranteed  by  the  Constitution,  a 
protection  against  the  repetition  of 
those  things  that  our  ancestors  in 
England  had  experienced  when  men 
were  not  free  to  write  and  speak 
as  they  cho.se ;  but  there  are  other 
rights  that  are  guaranteed  by  the 
Constitution  in  addition  to  the  right 
of   speech.   The   freedom   of  the 
press  is  no  higher  or  greater  than 
the    freedom  of  speech,  and  these 
guaranteed  rights  always  had  cer- 
tain limitations.    Under  the  rights 
of  free  speech  or  of  a  free  press  one 
would  not  have  the  right    to  utter 
blasphemy;  neither  would  he  have 
the  right  to  publish  immorality,  nor 
.sedition,  as  some  have  learned  re- 
cently in  this  great  Republic  of  ours 
under  the    prosecution  of    a  Utah 
boy ;  neither  would  it  give  the  right 
to  character  assassination.  While 
attention  has  been  called  to  the  fact 
that  we  have  realized  in  a  few  in- 
stances   that  a  spirit    of    lying  is 


CHARLES  H.  HART. 


143 


abroad  and  that  some  first  class 
falsehoods  have  been  put  forward 
and  industriously  circulated,  our 
Government  has  experienced  the 
same  thing"  upon  a  larger  scale.  The 
French  officer  referred  last  night  to 
some  of  those  falsehoods  uttered 
against  his  own  country,  that  it  was 
a  decadent  nation ;  have  you  not 
heard  that?  And  also  that  France 
had  been  bled  white, — another  false- 
hood. So  our  own  country  has  list- 
ed some  one  hundred  important 
falsehoods  that  have  been  circulated 
in  this  country ;  and  I  think  the  les- 
son to  us  is  not  to  repeat  these  idle 
tales  because  there  is  no  more  criti- 
cal period  of  this  great  world  con- 
flict than  we  are  passing  through 
now.  If  we'  make  serious  mistakes 
now  in  being  too  anxious  for  an 
early  peace,  it  may  result  these  mil- 
lions shall  have  died  in  vain,  if  we 
do  not  square  a  peace  which  shall 
usher  in  the  Millennium  or  tend 
very  stronsdy  in  that  direction.  So 
the  duty  of  citizenship,  as  I  view  it, 
is  to  be  careful  how  we  pass  along 
any  of  these  falsehoods,  e:ther 
against  the  Church  or  against  the 
state,  and  it  is  no  excuse  or  justi- 
fication to  the  person  repeating  a 
slander,  that  he  has  heard  it  from 
someone  else  ;  that  is  no  justifica- 
tion, so  we  mav  well  stop  and  in- 
quire when  anv  strange  tale  comes 
to  us.  whether  it  is  true  or  not.  The 
matiirv.  "Where  d'd  vou  eet  vour 
facts."  would  be  pertinent  both  as 
to  these  Church  rumors  ana  as  to 
these  rumors  pertaining  to  the  situ*  . 
Tt  is  a  time  for  care.  The  Deseret 
News,  in  its  excellent  editorial  col- 
umn the  other  night,  called  attention 
to  the  fact  that  when  that  maernin- 
rent  parade  was  passing,',  and  the 
fla?  was  being  carried  ;n  a  formal 
manner,  that  some  citizens  were 
either  too  careless  or  too  ignorant 


to  salute  the  flag  as  it  passed  by; 
and  it  occurs  to  me  in  connection 
with  this  epidemic  that  is  abroad, 
that  care  must  be  used,  care  by  those 
who  are  taken  with  it,  that  they  may 
not  expose  others.  I  have  seen 
people  sneezing  and  coughing  in 
public  assemblages  and  in  the  street 
cars,  without  the  use  of  a  handker- 
chiefs and,  if  affected  with  infec- 
tious disease,  endangering  those  in 
near  radius. 

I  have  already  taken  more  time, 
perhaps,  than  I  should.  May  the 
Lord  bless  us,  help  us  to  be  true 
and  faithful  and  loyal  citizens  to 
our  country  and  to  our  Church,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG. 
(Of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy.) 

While  Elder  Hart  was  speaking 
about  the  great  world's  war,  I  was 
thinking  of  the  heroism  of  our  .sol- 
diers, as  well  as  the  terrible  suffer- 
ings of  the  people  of  Europe.  To- 
day, I  feel  more  than  ever  the  need 
of  bowing  our  heads  in  the  pres- 
ence of  a  loving  God,  who  is  di- 
recting the  world  to  a  better  life. 
This  wild  and  distracted  world  is 
still  his.  The  war  will  end  in  vic- 
tory— a  victory  that  will  go  down 
the  ages.  This  consummation  of 
human  happiness  shall  be  given  us 
because  we  have  desired  to  do  our 
best,  and  to  be  our  best.  We  are 
standing  in  the  service  of  our  King 
and  Master,  and  we  are  obtaining 
new  visions  of  a  higher  and  newer 
life  for  ourselves  and  humanity. 
God  grant  that  the  day  of  peace 
may  come,  and  the  world  may  be 
governed  by  the  Prince  of  Peace. 

And  yet,  I  believe  that  after  this 
great  conflict  of  arms  is  over  with, 
that  a  greater  conflict  is  going  to 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


take  place  in  the  world,  a  conflict 
that  you  and  I  must  prepare  for 
with  all  our  might  and  strength.  It 
will  be  the  conflict  between  intelli- 
ence  and  ignorance,  between  mor- 
ality and  immorality,  between  the 
Spirit  of  God  and  the  spirit  of  dark- 
ness. In  the  wake  of  all  wars 
come  ignorance  and  immorality  .  In 
fact,  the  history  of  the  world 
proves  that  after  great  struggles  of 
might,  men  are  in  darknkess,  for 
war  precipitates  the  greater  evils  in 
human  society  on  one  hand  as  well 
as  the  better  spiritual  attitude  to- 
ward life  on  the  other. 

The  question  with  you  and  me  is : 
which  will  prevail?  The  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  a  message  to  the 
world  that  the  spiritual  life  must 
prevail ;  that  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  must  triumph.  It  will  be 
through  our  lives,  our  words,  and 
our  actions,  that  the  influence  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  will  be  felt  in 
the  world.  I  believe  firmly  what 
has  been  suggested  in  this  confer- 
ence, that  one  reason  for  this  war 
is  the  false  philosophies  that  have 
been  rampant  in  the  hearts  of  stu- 
dents of  the  European  countries 
and  ofthe  world.  The  great  mes- 
sage that  you  and  I  must  bear  must 
be  prefaced  with  the  divine  thought 
that  God  made  man  in  his  own 
image,  in  the  image  of  God  made 
he  him.  This  is  a  divine  truth.  Its 
divinity  stamps  divinity  upon  us. 
We  are  divine.  The  children  of 
God  in  deed  and  in  truth.  We  have 
not  evolved  from  something  lower. 
The  vision  of  Moses  as  found  in 
the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  tells  us 
this.  I  wish  the  message  could  be 
carried  to  the  world,  for  we  are 
distinctly  told  that  man  is  in  the 
image  of  God  materially  and  spirit- 
ually.     This    great  fundamental 


truth  is  what  the  world  needs  to- 
day. We  are  in  the  image  of  God, 
with  a  great  spiritual  outlook  on 
life.  What  the  world  needs  is 
idealism,  religion,  and  faith  in  God, 
which  humanity  has  long  since  lost. 
We  need  idealizing.  Yet  this  con- 
gregation and  conference,  our  acts 
and  our  words,  certainly  stamp  the 
Latter-day  Saints  as  a  people  with 
ideals.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  idealistic.  As  a  people  we  idealize 
the  earth,  we  idealize  man,  we  ideal- 
ize everything  pertaining  to  right- 
eousness and  truth,  and  we  are  con- 
vinced that  the  truth  will  pervail 
in  all  the  world.  This  war  now 
raging  in  Europe  was  not  of  God ; 
but  it  has  been  permitted ;  it  has 
come  as  a.  result  of  the  ignorance 
of  humanity.  God  is  a  God  of  love 
for  his  children,  and  though  this 
war  is  permitted,  there  will  come 
out  of  it  the  great  conflict  of  light 
against  darkness.  But  light  and 
truth  will  prevail.  The  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  the  message  to  the 
world  that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ  and  the  Redeemer  of  the 
world,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a 
prophet  of  the  living  God  in  whom 
we  have  great  faith. 

The  question  was  asked  me  re- 
cently, "If  God  is  a  God  of  love, 
what  will  be  the  compensation  for 
this  war?"  We  can  all  judge  what 
the  ultimate  outcome  of  it  is  to  be. 
No  one  can  tell  when  the  compensa- 
tion will  come  to  us.  But  compensa- 
tion will  come,  for  the  world  is  go- 
ing to  be  made  better,  and  prepared 
for  the  gospel  of  Christ. 

In  1777,  the  first  Continental 
Congress  sent  Benjamin  Franklin 
to  the  court  of.  France  to  ask  for 
succor  for  the  American  cause.  The 
Council  of  State  voted  to  help  Amer- 
ica, and  one  young  officer,  Lafa- 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG. 


145 


yette,  asked  permission  to  lead  four 
or  five  thousand  men  to  America. 
It  was  permitted,  and  a  few  weeks 
after,  Lafayette,  with  his  men,  came 
into  Philadelphia ;  they  had  been 
nine  weeks  on  the  sea.  Lafayette 
was  taken  to  the  camp  of 
Washington  and  was  put  on 
the  staff  .of  the  commander- 
in-chief.  He  immediately  went  to 
work  to  train  the  American  forces. 
After  a  long  struggle,  until  1781, 
the  American  colonies  won  their  in- 
dependence. 

They  had  fought  for  great  ideals, 
and  when  independence  was  gained 
Lafayette  bade  farewell  to  General 
Washington  on  the  banks  of  the 
Potomac,  General  Washington, 
grasping  the  hand  of  that  young 
French  officer,  said  in  French,  "God 
grant  that  your  people  may  never 
need  America's  help,  but  always 
know  that  America  will  love  your 
country."  When  those  French  sol- 
diers left  France,  many  a  mother 
wondered  when  the  compensation 
would  come  back,  when  their 
boys'  work  would  be  rewarded. 
Many  French  soldiers  fell  fighting 
for  America's  cause. 

Lafayette  went  back  and  report- 
ed to  his  government  that  many  of 
his  men  had  fallen  for  the  cause  of 
truth  and  liberty  in  America.  The 
government  passed  a  resolution  of 
thanks,  and  one  old  man,  a  Catholic 
Father,  prayed  to  God  that  France 
might  receive  a  just  compensation 
for  her  sacrifice. 

The  compensation  did  not  imme- 
diately come  to  the  French  people. 
Nearly  a  hundred  and  fifty  years 
afterwards,  on  the  sixth  day  of 
September,  1917,  General  Pershing 
of  the  American  army  had  been  pro- 
grammed to  give  an  address  before 
the  tomb  of  Lafayette.  He  went 
down  to  the  tomb  with  his  staff  of- 


ficers. General  Pershing  stepped 
before  the  tomb  of  Lafayette,  and 
in  French  said,  "Lafayette,  we  are 
here !"  That  is  all  that  he  said,  but 
it  is  a  speech  that  has  gone  into  the 
'hearts  of  humanity,  and  the  com- 
pensation for  what  France  did  over 
a  hundred  years  ago  has  gone  back- 
to  France. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the 
world  is  in  need  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Liberty,  democracy, 
truth,  light,  intelligence,  morality,  is 
what  we  are  fighting  for.  The 
American  troops  will  never  listen  to 
peace,  nor  will  Britain,  or  France, 
or  Servia,  or  Belgium,  until  a  new 
life,  a  new  liberty,  and  a  new  dem- 
ocracy, strike  deep  into  the  hearts 
of  the  Germanic  people  of  Europe. 
■,~Xhere  will  be  no  peace,  it  is  our 
-.g^aith,  until  the  world  is  partly 
slighted,  and  made  safe  for  democ- 
racy, that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
may  become  supreme  in  the  hearts 
of  men. 

God  made  man  in  his  own  image, 
in  the  image  of  God  made  he  him, 
'is  our  message  to  the  world.  Amen. 

Prof.  J.  J.  McClellan  rendered 
a  voluntary  on  the  great  organ, 
finishing  with  the  melody  of,  "O 
my  Father." 

ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON. 

(President  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission.) 

This  is  an  inspiring  sight,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  to  see  so  many 
Latter-day  Saints  gathered  together 
in  one  place.  In  the  Eastern  States 
mission  we  have  no  such  congrega- 
tions, but  ours  is  composed  of 
twenty  or  thirty,  sometimes  one 
hundred,  where  -we,  in  our  weak 
way,  and  by  the  assistance  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  are  attempting  to 


146 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


proclaim  to  them  the  principles  of 
life  eternal. 

I  have  been  greatly  interested 
and  edified  in  the  remarks  that 
have  been  made  by  the  speakers  at 
this  conference.  I  am  sure  that 
they  have  been  inspired  by  the 
Spirit  of  our  heavenly  Father ;  and 
it  is  the  inspiration  of  that  Spirit 
that  I  desire  to  enjoy  for  the  few 
moments  that  I  shall  stand  before 
you. 

Brother  Levi  Edgar  Young  said, 
"the  thing  that  the  world  needs 
most  is  a  knowledge  of  the  true  and 
the  living  God."  Is  it  not  a  singular 
thing,  but  a  thing  that  should  give 
great  joy  and  satisfaction  to  every 
Latter-day  Saint's  heart,  to  know 
that  the  prayer  of  faith  was  re- 
warded by  the  revelation  of  God 
himself  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
nearly  one  hundred  years  ago,  when 
Joseph  Smith,  the  boy,  went  into 
the  woods  near  Palmyra,  New 
York,  supplicated  God  in  fervent 
prayer  to  know  which  of  all  the 
sects  and  denominations  then  exist- 
ing in  the  world  was  right?  When 
the  Father  and  the  Son  appeared 
to  him,  the  Savior,  who  had  been 
introduced  with  the  words,  "This  is 
my  beloved  Son ;  hear  him,"  said 
that  Joseph  should  join  himself  to 
none  of  the  then  existing  organiza- 
tions upon  the  earth,  "for,"  said  the 
Savior,  "they  have  a  form  of  god- 
liness, but  they  derty  the  power 
thereof.  They  preach  for  hire, 
they  divine  for  money,  they  draw 
near  unto  me  with  their  lips  and 
honor  me  with  their  mouths,  but 
have  removed  their  hearts  far  from 
me ;  they  teach  for  doctrine  the 
commandments  of  men." 

Despite  the  fact  that  one  hun- 
dred years  have  .passed,  there  has 
been  no  consistent  attempt  on  the 
part  of  the  representatives  of  the 


existing  churches  or  organizations 
of  that  time  to  prove  that  they  were 
not  teaching  for  hire,  that  they  were 
not  divining  for  money,  that  they 
were  not  drawing  near  unto  him 
with  their  lips  and  honoring  him 
with  their  mouths,  and  that  their 
hearts  were  not  removed  far  from 
him ;  but  rather,  they  have  made 
vicious  attacks  upon  the  one  who 
gave  the  message  of  Jesus  Christ 
to  the  world.  Are  we  to  apologize 
for  what  the  Savior  said,  in  the 
face  of  the  present  condition  of  the 
world  ?  No  ;  a  thousand  times  no. 
Let  it  be  heralded  to  the  world. 
God  has  revealed  himself  and  his 
plan  of  life  and  salvation  to  the 
children  of  men,  and  it  is  our  priv- 
ilege, aye,  it  is  our  duty,  to  proclaim 
that  message  to  the  world. 

Among  other  attempts  that  have 
been  made  to  discredit  those  who 
have  been  instrumental  in  the  fur- 
thering of  the  purposes  of  the 
Lord,  a  recent  attempt  was  made 
in  one  of  the  army  camps,  as  pub- 
lished in  the  Boston  Transcript.  I 
desire  to  read  to  you  from  the  Bos- 
ton Transcript,  of  July  13,  1918: 

"While  Father  McQuaide,  a  popular 
chaplain  of  a  well-known  San  Fran- 
cisco regiment,  was  waiting  a  few  days 
at  Camp  Mills,  L.  L,  before  embarking 
for  France,  many  men  from  other 
regiments  who  were  without  Catholic 
chaplains,  learning  of  his  presence, 
visited  him,  almost  invariably  for  con- 
fession. One  day,  after  hearing  many, 
Father  McQuaide  was  conscious  of 
the  presence  of  another  waiting  sol- 
dier, and  in  his  characteristic  way  he 
said:  'Now,  kneel  right  here  and  bless 
yourself,  my  boy.'  The  soldier  looked 
up  meekly  and  said:  'I  don't  know 
how.  I  am  an  elder  in  the  'Mormon' 
Church.'  " 

This  is  intended  for  a  slur  upon 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  oh,  how 
they  have  misunderstood  the  mes- 


ELDER  WALTER  P.  MONSON 


147 


sage  of  Christ  to  the  world.  When 
the  devil  appeared  to  the  Savior  in 
his  emaciated,  hungry  condition,  he 
said :  "If  you  are  the  Son  of  God, 
turn  these  stones  into  bread,"  or,  in 
other  words,  "Bless  your  hungry 
self."  Did  he  do  so?  No;  he  did 
not  do  it.  He  did  not  bless  himself 
on  that  occasion;  but  out  on  the 
shores  of  the  Sea  of  Galilee,  where 
there  were  four  thousand  who  were 
hungered,  he  took  the  loaves  and 
small  fishes,  and  blessed  them  and 
gave  them  to  the  multitude,  thus 
extending  the  blessing  of  his  au- 
thority to  others.  And  in-  his  dy- 
ing moments  upon  the  cross,  while 
they  wagged  their  heads  and  mock- 
ingly said :  "If  you  are  the  Son  of 
God,  come  down  and  save  your- 
self," did  he  bless  himself  by  sav- 
ing his  life?  No.  He  went  to  a 
martyr's  death,  crucified.  What 
for?  That  you  and  I  might  live. 
And  yet  they  make  ridicule  and 
light  of  the  fact  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  do  not  know  how  to  bless 
themselves.  Why,  bless  your  souls, 
the  priesthood  that  has  been  given 
to  the  elders  in  this  Church  is  not 
intended  for  blessing  oneself,  but 
for  blessing  others.  How  true  this 
is,  and  in  harmony  with  the  state- 
ment of  St.  James,  when  he  said : 
"Is  any  sick  among  you?  Let  him 
call  for  the  elders  of  the  Church ; 
and  let  them  pray  over  him,  anoint- 
ing him  with  oil  in  the  name ,  of 
the  Lord ;  and  the  prayer  of  faith 
shall  save  the  sick,  and  the  Lord 
shall  raise  him  up."  He  did  not 
say,  "Anoint  yourself  and  bless 
yourself,"  but  let  the  priesthood  of 
others  be  operative  in  behalf  of  the 
afflicted. 

Now,  I  want  to  bear  to  you  my 
testimony,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
that  I  do  know  that  this  is  the 
true  work  of  God,  and  that  if  we 


will  persist  unto  the  end  to  pro- 
claim this  gospel  to  the  world  in 
holiness  of  life  and  purpose,  that 
we  shall  be  preserved  from  the 
pitfalls  of  the  evil  one,  for  he  has 
preserved  us  amid  the  trials  and 
persecutions  that  have  been  heaped 
upon  this  people  from  the  earliest 
organization  of  the  Church  to  the 
present  time.  We  praise  God  that 
we  live  in  this  land  of  liberty,  where 
we  can  worship  God  according  to 
the  dictates  of  our  own  conscience, 
and  the  opposition,  for  the  most 
part,  is  from  organizations  that 
have  found  their  origin  under  mo- 
narchial  forms  of  civil  government. 

God  bless  us  all,  that  we  might 
keep  our  covenants  true  and  sa- 
cred, and  ever  be  found  with  the 
faithful,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 

(President  of  the  Northwestern  States 
Mission.) 

While  President  Grant  was  read- 
ing the  121st  section  of  the  book 
of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the 
other  day,  which  contains  the  in- 
structions from  the  Lord  concern- 
ing the  spirit  that  should  actuate  the 
priesthood  of  this  Church,  my  mind 
went  out  to  some  of  the  statements 
which  have  been  made  by  the  en- 
emies of  this  Church.  One  that  im- 
pressed itself  upon  me  was  the  ut- 
terance of  a  noted  divine  in  the 
city  of  Portland,  a  few  years  ago, 
wherein  he  charged  that  the  "Mor- 
mon" Church  was  the  most  perfect 
organization  in  the  world,  the  most 
powerful;  but  he  feared  it,  because 
of  its  power.  He  was  afraid  that 
this  power  would  be  utilized  for  un- 
holy purposes.  I  recall  at  the 
same  time  that  a  noted  official  of 
the    Government    said   that  "the 


148 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE. 


'Mormon'  Church  and  the  German 
army  are  the  most  efficient  organ- 
izations in  the  world  ;"and  he  de- 
plored that,  while  we  have  efficiency 
in  both  these  organizations,  there 
was  the  surrender  of  individuality. 
He  hoped  that  the  day  might  come 
when  we  could  have  equal  efficiency 
as  shown  in  these  two  great  insti- 
tutions in  the  earth,  and  yet  have 
freedom  and  liberty.  These  two 
systems,  that  is,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  the 
German  army,  so  far  as  the  spirit 
that  dominates  and  actuates  them 
is  concerned,  are  as  far  apart  as 
the  two  poles  can  be.  There  are 
two  methods  by  which  efficiency 
may  be  obtained  even  in  the  home 
— one  by  the  whip  that  brings  im- 
mediate obedience  from  the  child — 
you  can  get  what  you  wish  by  fear, 
by  punishment ;  the  other  method  is 
to  obtain  it  through  love.  If  you 
will  observe  the  rule,  however,  to 
punish  and  obtain  obedience 
through  that  means,  you  can  do  it 
until  the  child  becomes  of  your'own 
age  and  size,  and  then  your  power 
is  gone  ;  but  if  you  control  by  love, 
it  will  endure  forever  and  ever, 
even  into  the  eternal  world.  These 
two  spirits  respectively  are  charac- 
teristic of  these  two  organizations 
— -the  one  that  rules  by  fear  and 
punishment  illustrates  the  spirit 
that  dominates  and  actuates  and 
controls  the  German  army,  and  ob- 
tains the  efficiency  of  that  people. 
I  rejoice  to  be  a  witness  to  the 
nations  of  the  earth  that  the  spirit 
that  domintaes  and  controls  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  is  the  spirit  of  love. 
Here  is  liberty;  here  is  freedom. 
No  man  has  coerced  me  nor  has 
he  coerced  you,  and  yet  we  have 
been  united ;  we  have  thought  alike 
we  have  believed  alike ;  we  have 


had  one  common  teacher ;  it  has  not 
been  the  whip,  nor  the  lash,  nor 
the  threat,  but  it  has  been  the  wit- 
ness and  the  testimony  of  the  Holy 
Ghost  that  has  born  to  us  all  the 
same  witness  concerning  the  teach- 
ings of  the  leaders  of  this  Church ; 
and  how,  in  my  heart,  I  rejoice  that 
1  have  always  found  it  possible 
to  yield,  and  gladly  and  willingly 
have  I  yielded,  to  the  instructions 
and  endorsed  the  counsel  and  ad- 
vice, which  have  been  given,  and 
have  always  felt  a  perfectly  free 
man. 

These  two  systems  were  in  op- 
eration in  the  very  beginning ;  on 
the  one  hand  was  he,  who  offered 
himself  to  redeem  the  world ;  but, 
said  he,  "I  will  save  all  men."  By 
what  means  ?  Taking  away  their 
individual  liberty.  The  right  to 
think,  the  right  to  act ;  but  said  he, 
"I  want  the  glory."  It  was  a  new 
scheme,  and  if  it  succeeded  it  was 
his,  and  he  wanted  the  glory.  On 
the  other  hand  was  the  Christ,  giv- 
ing unto  all  men  their  free  agency, 
holding  them,  nevertheless,  ac- 
countable, but  extending  unto  them 
the  right  of  choice  and  the  reward 
that  should  follow  ;  and  the  honor 
and  the  glory  were  the  Father's. 
There  was  war  over  that  questiori 
when  the  Father's  decision  was  ap- 
pealed from,  and  the  majority  of 
the  great  body  who  were  present 
voted  against  him  who  sought  to 
take  away  the  agency  of  man ;  there 
was  war  in  heaven,  actual  combat. 
The  forces  of  evil  were  cast  down 
to  Jhe  earth,  and  here  they  have 
been  and  here  the  war  wages  and 
never  have  these  combats  ceased. 
When  these  two  great  characters 
in  the  drama  of  the  world  met  in 
the  hour  of  temptation,  the  great 
thing  for  which  both  were  seeking 
— the  right    to    preside  over  the 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD. 


149 


Kingdoms  of  this  world,  was  dis- 
cussed ;  in  panoramic  view  .they 
passed  before  the  mind  of  Jesus. 
Satan  said,  "Aren't  they  splendid? 
Wouldn't  you  like  them?"  In  his 
heart  he  knew  that  it  was  what 
Jesus  came  to  obtain — the  right  to 
rule  over  them,  to  die  for  them  and 
to  save  them,  and  in  his  own  heart 
he  was  saying:  "You  don't  have  to 
die  for  them  if  you  will  only  do 
what  I  tell  you  now  ;  you  can  have 
them  on  easy  terms  ;  you  just  fall 
down  and  worship  me ;  behold  they 
are  mine  and  I  will  give  them  to 
you."  Jesus  knew  who  it  was,  how- 
ever, and  he  said :  'Get  thee  behind 
me,  Satan.'  Jesus  in  his  own  heart 
no  doubt  realized  that  Satan's  was 
only  a  squatter's  claim  upon  the 
earth.  It  is  true  he  had  been  ruling 
from  the  rivers  to  the  ends  of  the 
earth,  but  his  claim  was  no  good  ; 
it  was  not  valid  at  all ;  and  if  Jesus 
should  bow  down  and  worship  him. 
Jesus  would  have  a  title  that  was 
worthless  and  at  the  same  time 
lose  his  opportunity  to  redeem  the 
world  in  the  way  God  had  decreed. 
So  he  died  to  win  the  right  to  rule 
and  he  is  the  only  one  who  ever 
shall  rule  by  "right  Divine."  Those 
powers  are  still  in  the  world ;  they 
are  arrayed  against  each  other  to- 
day. When  shall  the  conflict  end? 
There  is  no  doubt  in  our  minds 
what  the  result  will  be  when  that 
end  shall  come.  Satan  even  steals 
the  liveries  of  heaven  to  accomplish 
his  purposes  and  he  will  give  reve- 
lation— this  is  a  wonderful  'time 
for  revelation.  He  is  giving  reve- 
lations to  some  poor,  deluded  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  I  think  that  the 
greatest  prophet  of  Baal  in  Europe 
today  is  the  German  Kaiser ;  I 
haven't  any  doubt  but  that  he  has 
received  revelation.  I  haven't  any 
doubts  but  that  he  feels  in  his  own 


heart  that  he  has  been  anointed  as 
he  said  he  was,  and  set  apart  by 
God  to  dominate  and  rule  the  earth. 

It  is  the  power  of  the  evil  forces 
arrayed  through  a  political  form  of 
government  for  the  purpose  of  stay- 
ing the  fulfilment  of  these  ancient 
predictions  referred  to  in  this  con- 
flict, when  in  the  interpretation  of 
Nebuchadnezzar's  dream  Danial 
said,  that  in  the  days  of  these  king- 
doms, our  days,  the  God  of  heaven 
should  establish  a  Kingdom  that 
should  roll  forth  and  fill  the  whole 
earth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  warms 
my  heart  to  be  able  to  say  and  to 
feel  that  God  is  not  only  working  in 
this  Church,  but  outside  of  it,  as 
indicated  and  as  it  has  been  re- 
ferred to  by  the  brethren  here,  that 
the  Lord  established  the  Constitu- 
tion of  the  Linked  States  for  the 
blessing  of  all  flesh.  In  my  soul  I 
believe  that  that  is  part  of  the  great 
Kingdom  of  God,  the  political  part, 
for  Jesus  was  to  come  as  "King 
of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords."  In 
the  capacity  of  King  of  kings  he 
rules  in  a  political  way,  and  as  Lord 
of  lords  in  a  spiritual  way.  He  is 
the  greatest  statesman  the  world 
has  ever  seen,  and  that  great 
kingdom,  cut  out  of  the  mountain 
without  hands,  founded  by  God, 
has  been  rolling  forth.  Let  me  tell 
you,  my  weak-kneed  brethren  and 
sisters,  if  there  are  any  of  you 
here,  take  courage,  for  God's 
word  shall  not  fail  when  he  pre- 
dicted that  the  instrument  known  as 
the  Constitution  of  the  LTiited 
States,  the  Spirit  of  Liberty  estab- 
lished here  by  a  few  weak  colonists, 
was  his  order  of  things  for  the  gov- 
ernment of  men,  and  it  should  roll 
forth  to  fill  the  whole  earth.  There 
were  great  kingdoms,  in  the  world 
that  refused  to  believe  it,  but  it  has 


150 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


rolled  forth  until  it  now  bids  fair 
to  reach  every  nation,  kindred  and 
tongue  and  people  in  the  earth,  and 
bring  God's  form  of  political  gov- 
ernment for  the  delivery  of  the 
souls  of  men  just  as  sure  as  that 
has  been  true,  just  so  sure  am  I  that 
this  is  God's  spiritual  part  of  the 
great  kingdom  that  Daniel  saw — 
the  more  sacred,  the  more  holy  part, 
the  sanctifying  thing  that  shall  not 
only  sanctify  men,  but  shall  sancti- 
fy nations,  when  at  the  peace 
table  the  sword  shall  be  sheathed 
and  the  covenant  and  agreement  of 
peace  signed. 

We  shall  not  have  a  lasting  and 
enduring  peace  until  men  shall  ac- 
cept that  other  part  of  the  Kingdom 
of  God,  the  truth  that  has  been  de- 
livered in  the  restoration  of  the 
everlasting  gospel.  My  heart  thrills 
when  I  look  at  our  boys.  I  saw 
seven  or  eight  hundred  of  them 
leaving  Camp  Lewis  in  the  Ninety- 
first  Division,  going  to  France. 
Don't  you  fathers  and  mothers 
grieve  any  more  about  them  as  to 
whether  or  not  they  will  keep  them- 
selves clean.  I  have  this  witness 
and  testimony  that  they  are  doing 
it ;  about  ninety  per  cent  of  them, are 
as  clean  and  as  pure  as  though  they 
were  missionaries  performing  their 
work  in  the  mission  field.  I  have 
had  the  sanction  and  opportu- 
nity to  ordain  scores  of  them 
to  the  priesthood,  many  who  never 
had  any  priesthood,  did  not  know 
anything  about  it  nor  care  about 
it ;  but  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
is  working  upon  them,  and  I 
have  a  witness  that  they  will  keep 
themselves  true  to  their  covenants, 
though  many  of  them  shall  in  all 
probability  lay  down  their  lives. 
But  I  see  them  in  the  visions  as 
of  the  future,  men  who  today  are 
clothed  upon  with  the  uniform  of 


their  country,  going  forth  to  offer 
their  lives  for  the  establishment  of 
truth  and  liberty  among  the  na-  ■ 
tions  of  the  earth.  I  see  the  day 
when  they  will  go  forth  as  mission- 
aries of  the  Church.  Such  a  band 
of  men  God  is  preparing  to  do  a 
work  that  never  before  has  been 
done  in  the  history  of  this  Church ; 
when  they  will  stand  in  Germany, 
in  Belgium,  in  France,  in  the  isl- 
ands of  the  sea,  and  in  all  the  Euro- 
pean nations,  these  very  identical 
men,  ministers  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  carrying  the  balm  that  will 
heal  the  wounds  of  the  nations. 
There  will  not  be  a  dog  to  wag  its 
tail  against  them.  They  shall  be 
honored.  God  is  preparing  them  for 
another  service. 

May  the  Lord  bless  this  Church 
and  the  membership  thereof,  that 
we  may  get  out  of  debt  in  this  good 
time;  seventies  and  elders,  prepare 
yourselves  for  the  great  demand, for 
it  will  come  and  God's  word  shall 
be  carried  to  the  ends  of  the  earth. 
We  do  not  retract  what  has  been 
said  concerning  that  message  which 
was  delivered  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith.  We  reannounce  it,  not 
in  a  spirit  of  boastfulness,  but  in  a 
spirit  of  deep  gratitude  to  God  our 
Father,  and  say  to  all  the  ends  of 
the  earth,  this  is  essential  for  the 
salvation  and  peace  of  the  world. 
God  speed  the  time  when  the  world 
will  receive  it,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

I  have  only  one  regret,  and  that 
is  that  this  day  could  not  be  length- 
ened out  some  six  or  eight  or  twelve 
hours  longer,  so  that  we  could  hear 
from  the  rest  of  the  brethren  who 
are  full  of  the  spirit  of  their  mis- 
sions and  of  the  Lord,  and  that 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


151 


you,  one  and  all  of  you,  would  be 
delighted  to  hear.  But  the  time  will 
not  permit. 

A  sacred  aolo,  "The  Ninety-and- 
nine,"  was  sung  by  Edna  Chipman, 
just  returned  from  the  Eastern 
States  Mission. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Presented  the  General  Authori- 
ties and  officers  of  the  auxiliary  or- 
ganizations who  were  voted  upon 
and  unanimously  sustained  as  fol- 
lows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator  and  President 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  First  Coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency. 

Charles  W.  Penrose,  as  Second 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Heber  J.  Grant,  as  President  of 
the  Twelve  Apostles. 

As  members  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  Apostles  :  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Reed  Smoot, 
George  Albert  Smith,  George  F. 
Richards,  Orson  F.  Whitney,  David 
O.  McKay,  Anthony  W.  Ivins, 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage,  Stephen  L.  Richards  and 
Richard  R.  Lyman. 

Hyrum  G.  Smith,  as  Presiding 
Patriarch  of  the  Church. 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, the  Twelve  Apostles  and 
Patriarch,  as  Prophets,  Seers  and 
Revelators. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Sev- 
enty: Seymour  B.  Young,  Brig- 
ham  H.  Roberts,  Jonathan  G.  Kim- 
ball, Rulon  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W. 
McMurrin,  Charles  H.  Hart  and 
Levi  Edgar  Young. 

Charles  W.  Nibley,  as  Presiding 


Bishop,  with  David  A.  Smith  and 
John  Wells  as  his  First  and  Second 
Counselors. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  Trustee-in- 
Trust  for  the  body  of  religious  wor- 
shipers known  as  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  as  Church  His 
torian  and  General  Church  Record- 
er. 

Andrew  Jenson,  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.  and 
August  William  Lund,  Assistant 
Historians. 

As  members  of  the  General 
Church  Board  of  Education:  Jo- 
esph  F.  Smith,  Willard  Young,  An- 
thon H.  Lund,  George  H.  Brimhall, 
Rudger  Clawson,  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose, Horace  H.  Cummings,  Orson 

F.  Whitnev  and  Joseph  F.  Smith, 

Arthur  Winter,  as  Secretary  and 
Treasurer  to  the  General  Church 
Board  of  Education. 

Horace  H.  Cummings,  General 
Superintendent  of  Church  Schools. 

Board  of  Examiners  for  Church 
Schools :  Horace  H.  Cummings, 
Chairman ;  George  H.  Brimhall,  C. 
N.  Jensen  and  Guy  C.  Wilson. 

Auditing  Committee  :  William  W. 
Riter,  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  John  C. 
Cutler,  Heber  Scowcroft  and  Peter 

G.  Johnston. 

Tabernacle  Choir :  Anthony  C. 
Lund,  Conductor  ;  Horace  S.  Ensign 
and  B.  Cecil  Gates,  Assistant  Con- 
ductors ;  John  J.  McClellan,  Organ- 
ist ;  Edward  P.  Kimball  and  Tracy 
Y.  Cannon,  Assistant  Organists ; 
George  C.  Smith,  Secretary  and 
Treasurer ;  and  all  the  Members. 

AUXILIARY  ORGANIZATIONS 
GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY. 

Emmeline  B.  Wells,  President ; 
Clarissa  S.  Williams,  First  Coun- 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


selor ;  Julina  L.  Smith,  Second 
Counselor ;  Amy  Brown  Lyman, 
Secretary ;  Susa  Young  Gates,  Cor- 
responding Secretary ;  Emma  A. 
Empey,  Treasurer ;  Lizzie  Thomas 
Edward,  Musical  Director;  Edna 
H.  Coray,  Organist ;  Sarah  Jenne 
Cannon.  Romania  B.  Penrose,  Em- 
ily S.  Richards,  Julia  P.  M.  Earns- 
worth.  Phebe  Y.  Beatie,  Ida  Smoot 
Dusenberry,  Carrie  S.  Thomas, 
Elizabeth  S.  Wilcox,  Rebecca  X. 
Xibley,  Elizabeth  C.  McCune,  Ed- 
na May  Davis,  Sarah  M.  McClel- 
land, Elizabeth  C.  Crismon.  Jeanette 

A.  Hyde,  Sarah  Eddington,  Lillian 
Cameron  and  Donette  Smith  Kes- 
ler. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  DESERET  SUNDAY 
SCHOOL  UNION. 

Joseph  E.  Smith.  Superintendent : 
David  O.  McKay,  First  Assistant 
Superintendent ;  Stephen  L.  Rich- 
ards, Second  Assistant  Superintend- 
ent ;  George  D.  Pyper.  Secretary ; 
John  E.  Bennett,  Treasurer.  Meber 
T.  Grant,  Hugh  J.  Cannon.  Andrew 
Kimball,  John  M.  Mills,  Seymour 

B.  Young.  Anthon  H.  Lund,  James 
E.  Talmage;  George  M.  Cannon. 
Horace  H.  Cummin«\s,  Josiah  Bur- 
rows, William  A.  Morton.  Horace 
S.  Ensign.  Henry  H.  Rolapp,  Har- 
old G.  Reynolds.  Charles  B.  Eelt. 
George  H.  Wallace.  Howard  R. 
DrigL's.  Nathan  T.  Porter.  Milton 
Bennion.  Charles  W.  Penrose,  Ed- 
win G.  Woolley,  Jr.,  Hyrum  G. 
Smith,  Charles  H.  Hart,  Joseph  Bal- 
lantyne.  J.  Leo  Fairbanks,  J.  W. 
Walker.  E.  G.  Gowans,  E.  Conway 
Ashton,  Adam  S.  Bennion.  Edward 
P.  Kimball,  Tracy  Y.  Cannon  and 
Richard  R.  Lyman. 

GENERAL  BOARD  YOUNG  MENS  MU- 
TUAL IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  Superintendent ; 


Heber  J.  Grant  and  Brigham  H. 
Roberts,  Assistant  Superintendents ; 
Moroni  Snow,  Secretary ;  J.  Golden 
Kimball,  Junius  F.  Wells.  George 
H.  Brimhall,  Edward  H.  Anderson. 
Thomas  Hull,  Willard  Done,  LeRoi 
C.  Snow,  Rudger  Clawson,  Rulon 
S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 
Bryant  S.  Hinckley,  Brigham  F. 
Grant,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr..  Lewis 
T.  Cannon,  Benjamin  Goddard, 
George  Albert  Smith,  Thomas  A. 
Clawson,  Lyman  R.  Martineau, 
Charles  H.  Hart,  John  A  Widtsoe. 
James  H.  Anderson,  Anthony  \\  . 
Ivins,  Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Anthon 
H.  Lund.  George  F.  Richards. 
Nephi  Anderson,  John  H.  Taylor. 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  James  E.  Tal- 
mage.  Hyrum  G.  Smith,  Henry  C. 
Lund,  George  J.  Cannon,  Nicholas 
G.  Morgan,  Claude  Richards.  John 
F.  Bowman,  Levi  Edgar  Young, 
Roscoe  W.  Eardley  Preston  I). 
Richards,  Osborne  J.  P.  Widtsoe, 
Brigham  S.  Young.  B.  Cecil  Gates, 
Richard  R.  Lyman,  Ernest  P.  Hors- 
ley. 

GENERAL  BOARD  YOUNG  LADIES*  MU- 
TUAL IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION. 

Martha  Home  Tingey,  Presi- 
dent ;  Ruth  May  Fox,  First  Coun- 
selor ;  Mae  Taylor  Xystrom,  Sec- 
ond Sounselor ;  Clarissa  A.  Beesley. 
Secretary  ;  Joan  M.  Campbell,  Re- 
cording Secretary;  Alice  K.  Smith. 

"fl*!»easurer  ;  Margaret  Summerhays. 

Chorister  and  Mabel  C.  Cain.  As- 
sistant Chorister.  Aids:  Maria 
Young  Dougall,  Adella  W.  Eardley. 
Agnes  S.  Campbell,  Ann  M.  Can- 
non, May  Booth  Talmage,  Emma 
Goddard,  Rose  W.  Bennett,  Julia 
M.  Brixen,  Agusta  W.  Grant,  Emily 
Caldwell  Adams.  Mary  E.  Connelly. 
Elen  Wallace.  Lucy  Woodruff 
Smith,  Jane  B.  Anderson,  Edith  R. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES. 


153 


Lovesy,  Laura  Bennion  Dimond, 
Rachel  Grant  Taylor.  Sarah  Rich- 
ards Cannon,  Lucy  M.  S.  Carter. 
Charlotte  Stewart,  Lucy  Grant  Can- 
non. Emily  H.  Higgs,  Martha  G. 
Smith,  Catherine  Folsom. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  PRIMARY 
ASSOCIATION. 

Louie  B.  Felt,  President ;  May 
Anderson,  First  Counselor;  Clara 
W.  Beebe,  Second  Counselor  ;  Genet 
B.  Dee,  Secretary  and  Treasurer ; 
Matilda  W.  Cahoon,  Acting  Choris- 
ter ;  Isabelle  S.  Ross  and  Ann  Ne- 
beker.  Physical  Directors ;  Advisors 
to  the  Board,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and 
David  O.  McKay,  Aids :  Aurelia 
Rogers,  Lillie  T.  Freeze,  Josephine 
R.  West,  Eliza  S.  Bennion,  Edna 
Harker  Thomas,  Edith  H.  Lambert, 
Laura  L.  Foster,  Eleanor  R. 
Jeremy,  Ella  S.  Capener,  Zina  Y. 
Card,  Georgina  F.  Richards,  Vilate 
S.  Chambers.  Helen  Davis,  Marion 
Belnap  Kerr,  Nellie  A.  Talmage. 
Cordia  H.  Smith.  Sadie  G.  Pack. 

GENERAL  BOARD  OF  RELIGION  CLASS. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  Superintend- 
ent ;  Rudger  Clawson,  First  Assist- 
ant Superintendent ;  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  Jr.,  Second  Assistant  Super- 
intendent ;  Edwin  S.  Sheets,  Secre- 
tary; Horace  H.  Cummings,  RuLon 
•  S.  Wells,  Joseph  W.  McMurrin, 
John  Henry  Evans,  William  A. 
Morton,  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  George 
Albert  Smith,  Charles  W.  Penrose, 
Orson  F.  Whitney.  James  E.  King. 
George  F.  Richards,  Heber  J.  Grant 
Anthony  W.  Ivins,  George  H.  Brim- 
hall,  P.  J.  Jensen,  Willard  Young, 
James  E.  Talmage,  N.  Andrew  Jen- 
sen, Guy  C.  Wilson.  Richard  R.  Ly- 
man, Hyrum  G.  Smith.  John  Wells. 


GENERAL   BOARD  OF  THE  . GENEALOG- 
ICAL  SOCIETY  OF  UTAH. 

Anthon  H.  Lund,  President; 
Charles  W.  Penrose,  Vice-Presi- 
dent;  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Jr.,  Secre- 
tary and  Treasurer;  Joseph  Chris- 
tenson,  Librarian ;  Anthony  W. 
Ivins,  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Hyrum 
G.  Smith. 

Edward  H.  Anderson,  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

A  solo  and  chorus:  "Hear  Me 
and  be  not  afraid,"  was  sung  bv 
Ruth  Wilson  and  the  choir. 

DAVID  A.  SMITH. 

(Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric.) 

President  Smith  wishes  me  to  say 
that  Elder  George  F.  Richards  con- 
tinues in  charge  of  the  European 
Mission. 

We  have  now  in  the  service  of 
the  army  and  navy  of  the  United 
States  nearly  fifteen  thousand  of  our 
young  men.  We  have  in  France 
Elders  B.  H.  Roberts,  Calvin  S. 
Smith,  and  Herbert  Maw,  acting  as 
chaplains.  According  to  the  ruling 
of  the  government,  we  should  be 
entitled  to  the  appointment  of 
oth  ers.  Recommendations  have 
been  made,  and  we  hope  assign- 
ments will  follow  soon. 

The  benediction  was  pronounced 
by  Elder  David  A.  Smith,  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six 
months. 


Professor  Anthony  C.  Lund  con- 
ducted the  singing  in  the  Taber- 
nacle. Professor  John  J.  McClellan 
played  the  accompaniments,  inter- 


154 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


hides,  etc.,  on  the  great  organ,  as- 
sisted by  Edward  P.  Kimball,  and 
Tracy  Y.  Cannon. 

The  stenographic  reports  of  the 
discourses  were  taken  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle by  Elder  Franklin  W.  Ot- 


terstrom,  assisted  by  Clarence 
Cramer ;  and  in  the  Assembly  Hall, 
and  by  the  Bureau  of  Information, 
by  Elders  Frederick  E.  Barker,  and 
Fred  G.  Barker. 

Edward  H.  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  Conference. 


iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiin 


i  HISTORY  OF  ! 

I  THE  CHURCH  [ 

|  tiitiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^  | 

§  Compiled  by  the  Church  Historians  and  j 

i  Published  by  the  Church  | 

j  IN  SIX  VOLUMES  j 

|  COMPLETING  THE  FIRST  PERIOD  j 

I         "The  History  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,"  with  J 

H  introduction  and  notes  by  B.  H.  Roberts.  1 

§f         A  remarkably  low  price  has  been  placed  on  the  1 

g  History  by  the  First  Presidency  to  secure  the  widest  § 

1  possible  circulation.  § 

1         Every  Association,  Sunday  School,  Quorum  and  §f 

g  Private  Library  should  have  a  set.  1 

g  Cloth — Embossed,  per   Vol.  $1.50  Postpaid  § 

|  Half  Calf— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol   2.50     "  1 

j  Half  Morocco— Gilt  Top,  per  Vol          2.50     "  I 

|  Full  Morocco— Full  Gilt  Edge,per  Vol  4.00     "  j 

|  IIIIIII1IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH  | 

|  WRITE  FOR  1918  CATALOG  FREE  j 

|  DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE  [ 

|  No.  6  MAIN  STREET     -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  j 

iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiH 


|IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIM 

!  THREE  NEW  ! 

(  BOOKS  ISSUED  1918  I 

I  iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiih  m 

|  2000  GOSPEL  QUOTATIONS  j 

|  BY  JUDGE  HENRY  H.  ROLAPP— The  latest  addition  to  Home  § 

%  Literature.    The  volume  is  subdivided  into  thirty  general  heads  M 

%  with  two  hundred  and  four  sub-heads,  which  in  turn,  are  divided  W 

U  into  two  thousand  paragraphs.    Remarkable  dexterity  in  plan,  W 

§§  painstaking  research,  and  a  marvelous  aptitude  for  classification  || 

H  and  arrangement  are  evident  in  the  work.    Indispensable  to  every  W 

M  student  of  the  Gospel.  || 

J         Handsomely  hound  in  cloth  $1.25  1 

|  LOVE  AND  THE  LIGHT— An  Idyl  of  the  Westland.  | 

I  BY  ORSON  F.  WHITNEY— A  Love  Story  told  in  verse,  into  1 

W  which  the  religious  experience  of  both  hero  and  heroine  is  inter-  || 

:  woven.    Adopted  as  one  of  the  books  in  the  M.  I.  A.  Reading  || 

=  Course,  1918.  | 

1  Illustrated  and  beautifully  bound  in  cloth.... $1.25  §f 

|  TOBACCO  AND  HUMAN  EFFICIENCY  | 

|  BY  DR.  FREDERICK  J.  PACK— Deseret  Professor  of  Geology,  | 

§§  University  of  Utah.  Dedicated  to  the  unbounded  possibilities  of  the  jz[ 

H  youth  of  Israel.  W. 

1         Bound  in  Cloth  $1.00  1 

I  lllllilllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll  | 

|  WRITE  FOR  1918  CATALOG  FREE  j 

|  DESERET  NEWS  BOOK  STORE  1 

No.  6  MAIN  STREET     -     SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH  | 


