ONE  HUNDRED  SEVENTH 


Semi-Annual 

(Conference 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

October  2, 3, 4, 1936 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

FAINTED  IN  THE  UNITED  STATES  OF  AMEKXCA 


 .  .    jjy^p 


A  THRILLING  STORY 

of  Century  One  of 

CHURCH  HISTORY 

ERE  is  a  new  story  of  "Mormonism,"  told  with  a  com- 
pleteness and  charm  that  will  thrill  Latter-day  Saints 
with  a  pride  of  achievement  and  at  the  same  time 
win  the  admiration  of  the  critic,  be  he  friend  or  foe.  In  a 
COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH,  B.  H. 
Roberts  has  done  a  masterful  piece  of  research  and  has  set 
down  the  record  of  Century  One — 1830  to  1930 — in  a  bril- 
liant appraisal  of  momentous  events.  The  reader  with  a 
sentimental  interest  will  be  fascinated  with  this  narrative 
of  truth  stranger  than  fiction;  the  reader  who  approaches 
the  new  work  with  the  critical  vision  of  the  historian  will 
find  it  fair  in  statement,  authentic  in  fact,  copious  in  detail 
and  sound  in  judgment. 

A  COMPREHENSIVE  HISTORY  OF  THE  CHURCH  was 
written  by  Elder  Roberts  at  the  instance  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  with  a  commission  to  make  it  exhaus- 
tively complete,  from  the  remotest  beginnings  to  the  close 
of  the  Centennial  Conference  of  April  6,  1930.  The  final 
volume  ends  with  an  account  of  the  Conference  itself,  mak- 
ing the  history  technically  inclusive  of  all  that  happened  in 
Century  One  of  the  organized  existence  of  the  Church.  Thus 
it  is  a  fitting  commemoration  of  one  hundred  years  of  strug- 
gle and  achievement. 

This  monumental  work  is  not  to  be  confused  with  any  former 
history,  journal  or  chronicle.  Though  its  nucleus  is  the  his- 
tory of  "Mormonism"  published  a  few  years  ago  in 
AMERICANA,  running  serially  for  six  years  through  that 
magazine,  yet  this  History  is  NEW — new  in  its  wealth  of 
material,  new  in  method  of  treatment  and  new  in  its  physical 
representation  of  the  book  maker's  art. 

Cash  Price  $30.00 
For  further  information  address  your  inquiry  to 

Deseret  Book  Company 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


One  Hundred  and  Seventh  Semi-Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Seventh  Semi-Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  October  2,  3  and  4, 
1936. 

The  proceedings  of  the  various  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  general  public. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  each  of  the 
sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency :  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark  Jr.,  and 
David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L.  Richards,  *,  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  John  A.  Widtsoe,  **, 
Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley.  *'** 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John 
H.  Taylor,  and  Ruf  us  K.  Hardy. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  David  A.  Smith, 
and  John  Wells. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors  and  high  councilors  from 
the  various  Stakes  of  Zion. 

Patriarchs,  Bishops  of  Wards  and  their  counselors,  and  high  priests, 
seventies  and  elders  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents:  Don  B.  Colton,  Eastern  States;  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Northern  States ;  Wilf  ord  W.  Richards,  North  Central  States ; 

*Richard  R.  Lyman  was  absent,  presiding  over  the  European  Mission. 
**Joseph  F.  Merrill  was  absent,  returning  from  Europe. 
***Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  was  absent  on  account  of  illness,  except  for  a  short 
time  Sunday  afternoon. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States;  James  M.  Kirkham,  East  Central 
States;  LeGrand  Richards,  Southern  States;  James  M.  Peterson,  Texas; 
Joseph  J.  Daynes,  Western  States ;  Nicholas  G.  Smith,  California ;  Jos- 
eph Quinney,  Jr.,  Northwestern  States;  Abel  S.  Rich,  Canada;  Harold 
W.  Pratt,  Mexico ;  Orlando  C.  Williams,  Spanish- American ;  Joseph  S. 
Peery,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

FIRST  DAY 
MORING  MEETING 

The  first  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morning, 
October  2,  at  10:00  a.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints." 

Elder  W.  H.  Reeder,  Jr.,  President  of  the  Mount  Ogden  Stake, 
offered  the  invocation. 

An  organ  solo,  "O  My  Father,"  (Old  English  melody)  was  played 
on  the  Tabernacle  organ  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  glad  to  have  the  privilege  of  meeting  with  the  Saints  in 
General  Conference  once  more.  I  shall  first  read  a  message  from  the 
First  Presidency  to  the  Church  : 

THE  MESSAGE  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 
TO  THE  CHURCH 

As  promised  at  the  last  April  Conference,  we  inaugurated  a  Church 
Security  Plan.  To  facilitate  the  putting  into  effect  of  the  Plan,  we 
organized  a  General  Committee  whose  functions  were  to  represent  the 
Presiding  Bishopric  in  the  detailed  administrative  work  of  coordinating 
and  supervising  the  labors  of  the  various  regularly  established  Church 
organizations  in  their  large  and  important  security  operations. 

The  Security  Plan  contemplated  no  new  Church  machinery  for  this 
work,  but  provided  for  the  use  of  all  the  existing  Church  organizations — 
the  Stake  and  Ward  organizations,  the  Priesthood  quorums,  the  Relief 
Society,  and  the  various  auxiliary  organizations — each  of  which  was 
to  render  the  maximum  service  it  could  furnish  in  the  interest  of  the 
general  welfare  of  the  Church. 

OBJECTIVE  TO  PROVIDE  NECESSITIES 

The  announced  objective  set  for  the  Church  under  this  Program 
was  to  provide  by  October  1,  1936,  by  a  wholly  voluntary  system  of 
gifts  in  cash  or  in  kind,  sufficient  food,  fuel,  clothing,  and  bedding  to 
supply  through  the  coming  winter,  every  needy  and  worthy  Church 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


family  unable  to  furnish  these  for  itself,  in  order  that  no  member  of 
the  Church  should  suffer  in  these  times  of  stress  and  emergency. 

WORK  TO  REPLACE  IDLENESS 

Our  primary  purpose  was  to  set  up,  in  so  far  as  it  might  be  possi- 
ble, a  system  under  which  the  curse  of  idleness  would  be  done  away 
with,  the  evils  of  a  dole  abolished,  and  independence,  industry,  thrift 
and  self  respect  be  once  more  established  amongst  our  people.  The 
aim  of  the  Church  is  to  help  the  people  to  help  themselves.  Work  is 
to  be  re-enthroned  as  the  ruling  principle  of  the  lives  of  our  Church 
membership. 

Our  great  leader,  Brigham  Young,  under  similar  conditions,  said : 

Set  the  poor  to  work — setting  out  orchards,  splitting  rails,  digging 
ditches,  making  fences,  or  anything  useful,  and  so  enable  them  to  buy- 
meal  and  flour  and  the  necessities  of  life. 

This  admonition  is  as  timely  today  as  when  Brigham  Young  made  it. 

CONTRIBUTIONS  IN  LABOR 

The  harvests  not  having  been  yet  fully  completed,  it  is  not  possible 
to  make  a  final  report  upon  our  present  situation  under  the  Plan,  but 
we  are  happy  to  make  the  following  preliminary  statement : 

In  accordance  with  the  Plan,  everything  that  has  been  done  has 
been  accomplished  by  the  purely  voluntary  gift  or  labor  of  members 
of  the  Church  as  well  as  the  gifts  of  many  non-members  who  have  con- 
tributed most  generously  of  their  substance  to  aid  the  Church  in  its 
efforts.   We  wish  especially  to  thank  these  for  their  help. 

More  than  15,000  persons  have  performed  labor  on  various  Stake 
and  Ward  projects  in  connection  with  this  Plan.  Many  of  these  have 
contributed  their  work  gratis ;  others  have  received  for  their  services, 
work  certificates  entitling  them  to  help  during  the  coining  winter. 
Hundreds  of  thousands  of  work  hours  have  been  furnished  by  the 
people  to  this  necessary  and  praiseworthy  purpose. 

The  Church  Security  Plan  contemplates  that  those  now  on  WPA 
projects  shall  continue  on  these  projects,  making  sure  to  give  a  full 
day's  work  for  value  received  but  they  are  expected  to  contribute  of 
their  time  when  not  so  employed  to  the  carrying  out  of  the  Plan. 

The  Church  aims  to  help  provide  for  the  care  and  sustenance  of 
those  on  direct  relief — Federal,  State  and  County,  as  also  for  those 
for  whom  the  Church  has  heretofore  cared.  The  exact  number  of  such 
persons  cannot  now  be  certainly  given  but  they  may  be  as  many  as 
15,000.  We  have  strongest  reasons  for  believing  we  shall  be  able  to 
give  these  the  aid  they  need. 

REPORTS  FROM  STAKES 

Oct.  1st,  the  date  set  on  which  reports  were  to  be  made,  98  stakes 
out  of  a  total  of  117  had  reported  on  their  organizations  and  achieve- 


4 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


merits,  and  83  answer  that  they  are  prepared  to  supply  food,  clothing, 
bedding,  etc.,  to  every  person  in  need. 

We  commend  the  presidencies  of  stakes  and  bishoprics  of  wards 
for  this  outstanding  record  of  promptness  and  efficiency. 

It  is  also  contemplated  that  under  this  plan  work  shall  be  sought 
and  obtained  for  the  unemployed  in  private  industries,  thus  relieving 
both  the  government  and  the  Church.  To  this  time  upwards  of  700 
persons  have  been  so  placed  by  the  Security  agencies.  Efforts  along  this 
line  will  be  steadily  pursued. 

RESULTS  ITEMIZED 

As  already  stated  the  harvests  are  not  yet  completed  and  so  returns 
are  necessarily  incomplete,  but  data  available  show  as  to  food-stuffs 
actually  now  on  hand  the  following  items : 

Wheat,  over  4,000  bushels. 

Beans,  over  13,000  pounds. 

Dried  fruits,  over  23,000  pounds. 

Meat,  over  10,000  pounds. 

Vegetables,  over  14,000  pounds. 

Potatoes,  over  6,000  bushels. 

Shelled  corn,  over  3,000  pounds. 

Flour,  over  62,000  pounds. 

Canned  fruit  and  vegetables,  almost  300,000  cans. 

There  are  numbers  of  other  items  of  foodstuffs  of  lesser  amounts. 

There  are  over  23,000  articles  of  men's,  women's  and  children's 
clothing,  including  dresses,  underwear,  coats,  suits,  stockings,  socks 
and  shoes. 

There  are  more  than  2,000  quilts  already  made ;  and  other  bedding  is 
being  accumulated  in  substantial  quantities. 

Arrangements  are  under  way  for  the  supply  of  fuel  as  needed. 

The  foregoing  partial  summary  will  indicate  what  the  people  have 
done  in  the  short  space  of  time  of  five  months  only.  It  is  a  glowing 
promise  of  what  the  people  are  able  to  do  when  they  put  their  wills 
and  hearts  to  this  work. 

WARDS  AND  STAKES  TO  HELP  EACH  OTHER 

Every  ward  and  stake  is  expected  to  face  the  necessity,  not  only 
of  providing  for  its  own,  but  of  helping  other  wards  and  stakes.  In 
no  other  way  would  it  be  possible  to  do  the  work  which  the  Church 
is  aiming  to  do.  But  few  stakes  and  wards  are  in  a  position  where 
they  may  be  rightfully  satisfied  by  merely  caring  for  their  own. 

This  great  work  must  continue  unabated  during  the  winter  months 
along  all  lines  and  activities  possible  in  that  inclement  season.  When 
spring  comes,  the  measures  taken  to  supply  foodstuffs  must  be  redoubled. 
We  shall  then  easily  be  able  to  do  better  than  this  year  because  we  can 
begin  our  work  when  the  planting  season  begins.    We  must  not  con- 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


5 


template  ceasing  our  extraordinary  efforts  until  want  and  suffering 
shall  disappear  from  amongst  us. 

The  responsibility  of  seeing  that  no  one  is  hungry  or  cold  or  insuf- 
ficiently clad  rests  upon  the  bishops,  each  one  for  the  members  of  his 
ouw  ward.  He  will  use  every  Church  organization  of  his  ward  to 
help  him  in  his  work.  For  help  outside  his  ward,  he  will  look  for 
necessary  assistance  to  his  Stake  Presidency,  they  to  their  regional  or- 
ganization, and  these  to  the  Presiding  Bishopric  of  the  Church  whose 
primary  responsibility  it  is  to  look  after  the  poor  of  the  Church  as  a 
whole. 

LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  ABUNDANTLY  BLESSED 

For  this  great  undertaking  the  Lord  has  abundantly  blessed  his 
people  already,  and  he  will  continue  to  pour  out  his  blessings  so  long  as 
the  people  do  their  duty  by  the  poor. 

Generations  and  generations  ago,  the  Lord  said  to  Israel  of  old, 
urging  them  to  pay  their  tithes  into  his  storehouse : 

Prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not 
open  you  the  windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it. 

To  this  generation,  the  Lord  has  said: 

Inasmuch  as  ye  impart  of  your  substance  unto  the  poor,  ye  will  do 
it  unto  me. 

And  the  Lord  added  this  admonition: 

Therefore,  if  any  man  shall  take  of  the  abundance  which  I  have 
made,  and  impart  not  his  portion,  according  to  the  law  of  my  gospel,  unto 
the  poor  and  the  needy,  he  shall,  with  the  wicked,  lift  up  his  eyes  in  hell, 
being  in  torment. 

Jacob,  speaking  to  the  people  of  Nephi,  said : 

But  before  ye  seek  for  riches,  seek  ye  for  the  kingdom  of  God. 
And  after  ye  have  obtained  a  hope  in  Christ  ye  shall  obtain  riches,  if 
ye  seek  them ;  and  ye  will  seek  them  for  the  intent  to  do  good — to  clothe 
the  naked,  and  to  feed  the  hungry,  and  to  liberate  the  captive,  and  ad- 
minister relief  to  the  sick  and  the  afflicted. 

APPRECIATION  FOR  SERVICE 

We  are  grateful  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  his  goodness  unto  this 
people  during  this  year,  for  the  bounteous  crops  which  he  has  given 
to  them,  and  for  the  measure  of  prosperity  which  has  come  to  our  midst. 

We  have  proved  the  Lord  and  he  has  opened  the  windows  of 
heaven. 

We  are  grateful  to  all  those  who  have  contributed  of  their  substance 
to  our  achievement.  We  thank  all  those  who  have  served  so  long  and 
earnestly  in  the  working  out  of  this  program  and  especially  to  those 
15,000  and  odd  members  of  the  Church  who  have  been  directly  concerned. 

We  invoke  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  each  and  every  one  of 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

you.  We  pray  the  Lord  continually  to  inspire  his  people  to  the  end 
that  we  shall  once  more  be  able  to  take  care  of  all  those  worthy  ones 
amongst  us  to  whom  hard  times  have  come  in  these  days  of  stress. 

(End  of  Message) 

HONEST  LABOR 

When  we  appeal  to  the  people  to  continue  to  labor  for  the  WPA, 
we  ask  them  to  labor  with  energy.  I  was  told  that  my  father,  who  was 
the  superintendent  of  public  works  in  early  days,  (and  it  was  the 
public  works  of  the  Church  that  built  this  building — blacksmith  shop, 
carpenter  shop,  and  other  things,  said,  "I  can  pick  out  every  man 
who  is  working  by  the  day,  and  every  one  who  is  working  by  the  job. 
I  find  men  working  by  the  day — by  the  day — by  the  day;  and  I  find 
them  working  by  the  job,  by  the  job,  by  the  job,  job,  job — by  the  job, 
by  the  job,  by  the  job,  by  the  job." 

Now,  we  want  our  people  who  are  on  the  WPA  to  work  by  the 
job  and  not  by  the  day. 

QUOTES  BRIGHAM  YOUNG 

I  desire  to  call  attention  to  a  statement  by  President  Brigham  Young : 

My  experience  has  taught  me,  and  it  has  become  a  principle  with 
me,  that  it  is  never  any  benefit  to  give  out  and  out,  to  man  or  woman, 
money,  food,  clothing,  or  anything  else,  if  they  are  able-bodied  and  can 
work  and  earn  what  they  need,  when  there  is  anything  on  earth  for  them 
to  do.  This  is  my  principle  and  I  try  to  act  upon  it.  To  pursue  a 
contrary  course  would  ruin  any  community  in  the  world  and  make  them 
idlers. 

And  what  would  ruin  a  community  would  ruin  a  state,  and  I 
might  incidentally  remark,  a  nation  also. 

THE  CONSTITUTION  INSPIRED 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States  is  a  glorious  standard ;  it  is 
founded  in  the  wisdom  of  God.  It  is  a  heavenly  banner ;  it  is,  to  all  those 
who  are  privileged  with  the  sweets  of  liberty,  like  the  cooling  shades 
and  refreshing  waters  of  a  great  rock  in  a  weary  and  thirsty  land.  It 
is  like  a  great  tree,  under  whose  branches  men  from  every  clime  can 
be  shielded  from  the  burning  rays  of  the  sun. — Joseph  Smith. 

From  my  childhood  days  I  have  understood  that  we  believe  abso- 
lutely that  the  Constitution  of  our  country  was  an  inspired  instrument, 
and  that  God  directed  those  who  created  it  and  those  who  defended 
the  independence  of  this  nation.  In  other  words,  that  He  fought  with 
Washington  and  others  in  the  Revolutionary  War. 

In  Section  134  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  find  the  following: 

We  believe  that  governments  were  instituted  of  God  for  the  benefit 
of  man;  and  that  he  holds  men  accountable  for  their  acts  in  relation 
to  them,  both  in  making  laws  and  administering  them,  for  the  good  and 
safety  of  society. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


7 


We  believe  that  no  government  can  exist  in  peace,  except  such  laws 
are  framed  and  held  inviolate  as  will  secure  to  each  individual  the  free 
exercise  of  conscience,  the  right  and  control  of  property,  and  the  pro- 
tection of  life.  .  .  . 

We  do  not  believe  it  just  to  mingle  religious  influence  with  civil 
government,  whereby  one  religious  society  is  fostered  and  another  pro- 
scribed in  its  spiritual  privileges,  and  the  individual  rights  of  its  members, 
as  citizens,  denied. 

COMMENDS  INCREASE  IN  TITHES  AND  OFFERINGS 

It  gives  me  very  great  pleasure  indeed  to  announce  that  we  have 
had  a  remarkable  and  splendid  increase  in  the  tithes  of  the  people 
since  this  Security  Plan  was  first  announced.  We  have  also  had,  as 
I  remember  it,  fully  100  per  cent  increase  in  the  amount  of  Fast  Day 
offerings  paid.  I  rejoice  in  this,  and  when  we  ask  the  people  to  come 
off  the  "dole"  so  to  speak,  we  ask  every  man  who  has  a  farm  to  farm 
it  and  not  to  let  it  lie  idle,  and  collect  money  from  the  government  of 
the  United  States. 

I  was  told  by  the  cashier  of  a  bank  that  a  man  came  into  his  bank 
who  wanted  to  borrow  some  money.  He  said :  "Yes,  you  can  have  it 
as  usual,  if  you  will  give  me  a  crop  mortgage." 

He  said :  "Oh,  I  am  not  raising  crops  now ;  I  am  getting  more 
money  from  the  government  than  I  could  get  from  crops  raised  on 
my  farm.    I  will  give  you  an  order  on  the  government." 

GRATITUDE  FOR  CHANGE  IN  SENTIMENT 

Since  our  conference  six  months  ago  it  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  visit 
very  many  places.  First  I  went  to  Detroit,  Michigan,  where  I  attended 
a  convention  of  the  Farm  Chemurgic  Council,  and  was  one  of  the 
speakers.  My  remarks  were  received  with  such  enthusiasm  and  with 
such  applause  that  I  think  for  the  first  time  in  my  life,  when  I  retired 
that  night,  I  was  unable  to  sleep  for  many  hours  because  of  the  gratitude 
that  filled  my  heart  for  the  wonderful  change  that  had  come  about  in 
the  attitude  of  the  world  at  large  toward  our  people.  When  I  thought 
of  the  persecutions  and  trials  and  tribulations  of  our  people ;  when  I 
thought  of  my  own  mother  being  rejected  by  her  brothers  and  cast  out 
as  a  thing  of  evil ;  when  I  thought  of  laboring  in  England  for  three  long 
years,  during  which  time  some  of  the  most  wicked  and  vile  and  devilish 
things  imaginable  were  printed  in  the  newspapers  about  our  people ;  and 
when  I  remembered  that  not  one  single  line  of  refutation  was  I  able 
to  get  in  any  of  the  newspapers,  and  then  when  I  thought  of  the  great 
body  of  leading  men — some  of  the  greatest,  if  not  the  very  greatest, 
financial  men  in  our  country  applauding  my  remarks  that  were  practically 
telling  of  the  accomplishments  of  the  Church,  and  applauding  them  to 
the  echo,  it  was  impossible  for  me  to  sleep. 

EXPERIENCE  WITH  LONDON  EDITOR 

To  give  you  one  illustration  of  my  experiences  in  England — I  may 
have  given  it  to  you  before,  but  I  will  do  so  again — I  took  a  letter  from 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


the  shipping  firm,  with  which  we  had  been  doing  business  for  over  50 
years,  to  the  editor  of  a  newspaper  in  London,  vouching  for  my  integrity, 
my  honesty,  and  the  trustworthiness  of  anything  I  might  say  to  that 
paper.  When  I  presented  my  letter  I  was  told  that  the  editor  was  not 
in,  but  the  assistant  editor,  Mr.  Robinson,  would  see  me.  By  the  way, 
this  letter  not  only  vouched  for  my  integrity,  but  it  vouched  for  the 
integrity  and  honor  of  every  man  who  for  the  past  50  years  had  presided 
over  the  European  Mission  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

The  gentleman  asked  me  what  he  could  do  for  me.  I  told  him  it 
would  be  a  great  pleasure  to  me  if  he  would  allow  me  to  write  a  reply 
in  refutation  of  the  many  vile  and  wicked  falsehoods  that  had  been  pub- 
lished in  his  paper  regarding  the  Church. 

He  said:  "Oh,  we  have  not  published  anything  false;  we  have  pub- 
lished just  exactly  what  is  right  about  you  Mormons." 

I  replied:  "Yes,  my  friend,  when  one  man  calls  another  a  liar  he 
thinks  he  is  doing  what  is  right,  but  if  the  man  is  not  a  liar  that  does 
not  make  him  one.  I  know  absolutely  that  everything  you  have  pub- 
lished in  your  paper  about  us  is  a  falsehood." 

"Never  mind  what  you  claim,  we  will  not  publish  anything  that 
you  write." 

I  said:  "I  defy  you  to  get  a  letter  of  recommendation  from  some 
responsible  person,  vouching  for  any  individual  who  has  furnished  you 
these  falsehoods.  I  can  furnish  you  letters  of  recommendation  from 
every  non-Mormon  banker  in  Salt  Lake  City.  I  have  no  recommenda- 
tions from  Mormons,  because  that  would  be  no  more  valuable  than  if  I 
were  to  write  a  letter  saying :  'To  whom  it  may  concern :  The  bearer,  Mr. 
Heber  J.  Grant,  is  strictly  honest.  Respectfully,  Heber  J.  Grant.'  I 
have  letters  from  bankers  in  New  York,  Chicago  and  San  Francisco, 
who  are  not  members  of  our  Church,  from  H.  B.  Claflin  and  Company, 
the  largest  dry  goods  house  in  New  York,  signed  by  the  president, 
vouching  for  my  integrity  and  honesty,  and  I  assure  you  that  everything 
you  have  published  in  your  paper  about  the  Mormons  is  a  falsehood." 

He  said:  "Never  mind  what  you  assure  me.  We  will  not  publish 
anything  you  have  to  say." 

I  said :  "Good  day,  sir." 

I  went  to  the  door  and  opened  it,  then  took  my  "stovepipe"  hat 

off. 

When  I  was  over  there,  way  back  30  years  or  more  ago,  a  man 
was  not  considered  worthy  to  be  called  a  minister  who  did  not  have 
a  Prince  Albert  coat  and  a  stovepipe  hat.  For  the  first  time  in  my  life 
I  was  wearing  both  of  them. 

The  boy  told  me  that  Mr.  Robinson,  the  assistant  editor,  would 
receive  me — this  was  downstairs  before  I  walked  up  to  his  office.  And 
I  had  the  thought  which  I  expected  to  use  later  if  necessary.  I  turned 
around  and  said:  "Excuse  me,"  and  I  used  the  thought  that  came  to 
me  downstairs. 

"By  the  way,"  I  said,  "the  boy  who  met  me  downstairs  told  me 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


9 


that  Mr.  Robinson,  the  assistant  editor,  would  receive  me,  the  editor 
not  being  in ;  you  are  only  the  assistant  editor.  Is  your  name  Robinson  ?" 
"Yes." 

"Are  you  related  to  Phil  Robinson?" 
"Oh,  no." 

"Do  you  know  Phil  Robinson?" 

"Do  I  know  Phil  Robinson?  Everybody  knows  Phil  Robinson." 

"Well  I  am  glad  to  know  that.  Was  he  the  correspondent  of  the 
London  Daily  Telegraph  during  the  Boer  War,  one  of  the  two  greatest 
of  all  the  London  papers?"  And  I  emphasized  greatest,  because  his 
paper  was  not  one  of  the  two. 

"Yes,  he  was." 

"And  would  you  believe  anything  and  everything  he  wrote?" 
"I  would." 

"Then  buy  his  book  entitled  Sinners  and  Saints;  it  will  cost  you 
only  two  shillings.  Phil  Robinson  visited  Utah  and  traveled  all  over 
the  state  with  one  of  the  Apostles,  (the  late  John  Henry  Smith  was 
the  man)  and  if  you  will  buy  that  book,  sir,  you  will  find  that  everything 
you  have  said  in  your  paper  is  a  malicious  falsehood. 

He  said:  "You  astonish  me." 

I  said,  "You  are  not  the  only  man  who  has  been  astonished  when 
he  has  run  up  against  the  Mormon  problem." 
He  said :  "Write  me  a  half  column." 

I  said :  "Small  favors  thankfully  received,  large  ones  in  proportion. 
Seven  to  ten  columns  of  lies  and  a  half  a  column  of  refutation.  Thanks, 
you  shall  have  it  inside  of  two  hours." 

He  got  it  all  right,  kept  it  the  usual  month  or  two  and  returned 
it  with  the  statement  that  the  editor  was  very  sorry,  but  he  could  not 
find  space  for  the  returned  manuscript.  Every  time  I  have  received 
such  letters  of  sorrow  I  have  thought  of  the  saying,  "Polite  lying  is  a 
gentlemanly  accomplishment,  lubricates  business,  varnishes  unpleasant 
facts,  and  promotes  friendship." 

It  doesn't  promote  any  friendship  with  me,  it  promotes  complete 
disgust  for  men  to  say  they  are  sorry  when  I  am  sure  they  are  telling 
a  lie. 

HONORED  AT  CONVENTION 

These  remarks  of  mine  at  Detroit  made  a  very  profound  impression 
for  good  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  and  their  accomplishments.  The 
president  of  the  association  asked  me  to  kindly  speak  again  at  the  banquet 
which  was  advertised  and  at  which  about  1,200  people  were  present,  and 
I  took  pleasure  in  speaking  again  briefly.  All  of  my  remarks  before 
the  conference  were  published  in  pamphlet  form,  and  my  remarks  at 
the  banquet  were  published  in  an  abbreviated  form.  The  remarks  in 
full  appeared  in  the  Improvement  Era.  I  have  a  letter  from  the  man- 
aging director  saying,  "Mr.  Grant,  it  is  the  concensus  of  opinion  of 
several  score  of  men  whom  I  have  met  since  the  convention  that  you 
came  down  to  Detroit  and  stole  our  convention." 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

It  fell  to  my  lot  to  have  a  very  delightful  trip  with  my  wife  and 
nearly  all  of  my  children  to  Alaska,  and  to  speak  while  on  that  trip  at 
Seattle,  Portland,  and  Boise.  We  had  a  very  enjoyable  time  and  saw 
a  remarkable  and  wonderful  country,  so  far  as  scenery  is  concerned. 

Afterwards  it  fell  to  my  lot  to  attend  a  gathering  of  the  Grant 
family  in  Galesburg,  Illinois,  and  I  believe  that  I  did  some  good  in  meeting 
with  the  children  and  grandchildren  of  my  father's  brothers  and  sisters. 
I  thoroughly  enjoyed  myself  and  hope  some  day  to  make  an  impression 
for  good  upon  them,  and  that  I  may  be  successful  in  bringing  some  of 
them  into  the  Church.  I  have  had  a  number  of  letters  from  some  of  the 
people  and  have  sent  books  and  tracts  to  them,  and  some  have  remarked 
that  they  wished  they  were  here  so  that  they  could  attend  our  meetings. 
I  am  not  sure  but  what  they  would  like  to  join  the  Church.  I  held 
meetings  with  the  Saints  in  Galesburg.  The  majority  of  the  audience 
were  non-Mormons. 

It  fell  to  my  lot  to  go  to  Estes  Park,  Colorado,  where  I  delivered  a 
speech  of  a  full  hour  before  the  Institute  of  Human  Relations  in  defense 
of  our  people,  this  being  the  only  time  in  my  life  that  I  have  been  per- 
mitted to  meet  with  people  who  were  explaining  the  faith  of  various 
religious  organizations,  among  the  speakers  being  a  gentleman  from 
China.  My  remarks  were  received  with  kindness  the  same  as  was  the 
case  at  Detroit. 

When  I  contemplate  the  change  in  attitude  that  has  taken  place 
my  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude. 

EXPERIENCES  IN  JAPAN 

When  I  went  to  Japan  we  made  all  arrangements  to  board  and 
lodge  at  a  very  fine  place  that  overlooked  the  town,  upon  a  bluff,  a 
delightful  location.  I  handed  my  card  to  the  gentleman  after  arrange- 
ments had  been  made,  and  our  rooms  selected,  and  he  said,  "Well,  from 
Salt  Lake  City !  I  am  glad  to  see  you.  We  are  expecting  some  preachers 
from  Salt  Lake  City." 

I  said:  "Turn  the  card  over  and  maybe  you  will  find  they  have 
arrived. 

He  turned  the  card  over  and  saw  the  Articles  of  Faith  of  our 
Church.  He  said,  "Oh,  you  cannot  stay  in  my  house,  I  would  not  allow 
a  Mormon  to  sleep  under  my  roof." 

I  said,  "Thanks." 

He  rushed  to  a  newspaper,  published  by  an  Englishman,  and  in 
English,  by  the  way,  telling  that  he  would  not  let  a  Mormon  sleep  under 
his  roof. 

Brother  Louis  A.  Kelsch,  the  minute  we  arrived  in  Yokohama, 
went  to  see  a  minister,  whose  picture  he  had  seen  in  a  newspaper,  I  think 
it  was  in  St.  Paul ;  he  had  seen  a  picture  of  this  minister  taken  in  Japan 
with  two  converts.  Brother  Kelsch  cut  the  picture  out  of  the  paper  because 
a  voice,  figuratively  speaking,  without  making  any  noise — a  communica- 
tion to  that  part  of  him  that  shall  live  after  he  is  gone — said,  "You  shall 
meet  that  man  in  Japan." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


11 


When  he  returned  to  Chicago  he  said  to  his  wife,  "Brother  Grant 
has  been  called  on  a  mission  to  Japan,  I  see  by  The  News,  and  I  know 
two  men  who  are  going  with  him."  This  was  at  the  dinner  table.  He 
had  then  received  no  notice  of  his  call. 

"Who  are  they?"  she  asked. 

He  said:  "One  of  them  is  Horace  S.  Ensign,  the  other  I  do  not 
care  to  mention." 

That  night  after  he  retired  his  wife  said:  "Lou,  are  you  the  other 
one?" 

He  said:  "Yes." 

MEETS  MINISTER 

As  I  was  saying,  as  soon  as  he  got  to  Japan  he  called  on  this  gen- 
tleman, and  the  minister  was  delighted  to  meet  him.  He  showed  him 
the  picture  and  said :  "A  voice  told  me  that  I  should  meet  you  in  Japan. 
Here  I  am.    I  am  delighted  to  meet  you." 

The  minister  went  on  talking  to  him  and  said :  "You  know,  we  are 
expecting  Mormons  here  and  all  of  us  have  joined  together  and  have 
petitioned  the  government  not  to  allow  them  to  be  permitted  to  speak 
here." 

Brother  Kelsch  said :  "Turn  that  card  over  and  maybe  you  will 
find  that  they  have  arrived,"  and  gave  him  his  opinion  in  good  plain 
English  of  his  Christian  spirit. 

The  editor  of  the  newspaper  literally  "ripped  the  man  up  the  back" 
who  refused  to  allow  us  to  stop  in  his  boarding  house.  I  called  on  the 
editor  of  the  paper  and  thanked  him  for  his  attacking  the  man  for  his 
lack  of  Christianity  and  a  decent  respect  for  other  people,  and  he  said: 
"Don't  you  bother  about  thanking  me.  I  have  been  reading  stories 
about  you,  and  I  am  going  to  publish  a  lot  of  them." 

I  said:  "Go  right  ahead.  The  more  you  publish  the  more  grateful 
I  will  be,  if  you  will  only  give  me  the  privilege  of  replying  to  them." 

"You  shall  have  all  the  space  you  want." 

WRITES  REPLY 

He  published  a  lot  of  things  not  very  good,  and  I  took  space,  oc- 
cupying one  entire  page  and  a  fraction  answering  them.  Then  there  was 
another  small  publication  against  us,  and  I  wrote  another  long  reply. 
The  gentleman  no  doubt  concluded  that  space  was  too  valuable  to  let 
me  say  all  that  I  wanted  to  say,  so  there  were  no  more  attacks. 

My  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  for  the  splendid  reception  given 
to  my  speech  in  Colorado. 

VISIT  TO  CANADA 

Afterwards  it  fell  to  my  lot  to  travel  to  Butte,  Montana,  then  to 
Grea  tFalls,  Montana,  where  I  held  a  meeting,  and  we  then  went 
to  Canada,  to  the  Taylor  Stake,  where  a  celebration  was  being  given 
in  honor  of  Brother  Heber  S.  Allen,  the  former  president  of  the 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


stake,  and  we  also  held  meetings  in  Cardston.  I  then  had  the 
great  pleasure  of  visiting  the  Canadian  Rockies,  and  viewing  the 
beautiful  scenery  there,  also  visited  Glacier  Park.  Glacier  Park 
and  the  Canadian  Rockies  are  far  ahead  of  anything  I  saw  in 
Switzerland,  in  my  opinion;  yet  any  number  of  people,  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  them,  go  clear  across  the  ocean  to  see  something  not  up 
to  the  standard  of  what  they  could  see  here  at  home  and  in  Canada,  to 
say  nothing  of  the  North  Rim  of  the  Grand  Canyon,  Bryce,  Cedar 
Breaks  and  Zion  Park,  which  are  superior  to  them  all  and  which  belong 
to  us  here  at  home.  Returning  from  Canada  we  held  meetings  in 
Spokane,  Washington,  Butte,  Montana,  and  Idaho  Falls. 

DEDICATION  OF  PIONEER  MONUMENT 

One  of  the  most  important,  and  perhaps  the  most  important,  thing 
that  has  happened  since  our  last  conference  is  that  on  the  19th  of  Sep- 
tember a  special  train  left  Salt  Lake  City  for  Omaha,  where  buses 
took  us  from  the  station  to  the  Winter  Quarters  Pioneer  Cemetery, 
where  nearly  six  hundred  of  our  people  are  buried.  On  that  special 
train  of  a  number  of  cars  I  did  not  see  one  cigarette,  which  was  re- 
markable in  this  day.  For  several  years  past  I  have  not  had  a  meal  in  a 
dining  car  when  there  were  not  from  one  to  a  half  dozen  and  sometimes 
ten  ladies  smoking  cigarettes,  to  say  nothing  about  the  men. 

We  had  a  little  concert  in  the  observation  car  and  some  excellent 
singing  by  a  very  splendid  quartette,  also  singing  by  the  group.  I 
think  it  was  no  doubt  the  first  time  in  the  history  of  that  car  that  people 
were  ever  in  it  without  a  single  smoker. 

I  believe  there  were  over  three  thousand  people  in  attendance  at 
the  dedicatory  services.  The  Lord  blessed  those  who  spoke  and  those 
who  listened.  We  had  a  glorious  time.  I  do  not  believe  there  is  a  more 
beautiful  or  finer  monument  to  be  found  in  all  the  United  States  than 
that  monument  by  Brother  Avard  Fairbanks.  I  believe  it  is  his  master- 
piece, and  that  it  will  give  him  a  reputation  with  everybody  who  sees  it. 
The  sorrow  depicted  on  the  face  of  the  mother  as  she  looks  down  into 
the  grave  of  her  babe  is  perfectly  wonderful. 

When  I  thought  of  people  refusing  to  rent  halls  for  money,  in  years 
gone  by,  in  which  the  Mormons  might  meet,  and  then  thought  of  that 
marvelous  Joslyn  Memorial  Building  being  tendered  to  us  for  services 
on  Sunday  evening,  again  I  was  not  able  to  sleep  as  well  as  usual.  I 
think  the  marble  in  the  steps  that  lead  up  to  the  entrance  of  that  building 
is  more  than  enough  to  erect  an  ordinary  building. 

GROWTH  OF  CHURCH 

With  the  exception  of  times  when  I  have  been  away  from  home,  I 
believe  that  during  the  past  six  months  since  our  conference  there  has  not 
been  more  than  one  or  two  Sundays  when  it  has  not  fallen  to  my  lot  to 
dedicate  either  a  stake  house  or  a  ward  meeting  house.  The  Church  is 
growing  in  power  and  ability  and  strength  along  all  lines.  The  growth 
in  tithing  and  donations  tells  its  own  story. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


I  have  rejoiced  in  the  very  many  splendid  and  remarkable  meeting 
houses  we  are  building.  The  Church  has  furnished  a  great  deal  of 
employment  by  increasing  the  amount  they  are  giving  to  the  people  when 
they  erect  meeting  houses.  We  are  giving  them  now  sixty  per  cent  of 
the  total  cost  from  the  tithes,  instead  of  nothing,  which  was  the  case 
when  I  was  president  of  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion.  We  had  to  build 
our  own  meeting  houses  out  there,  and  there  was  nothing  given  by  the 
Church  because  they  were  not  able  to  give  anything.  The  Church  finally 
started  giving  one-quarter,  then  one-third,  then  fifty  per  cent,  and  now 
we  are  able  because  of  the  increase  in  tithes  of  the  people,  to  give  sixty 
per  cent  towards  the  cost  of  erection  of  meeting  houses.  And  out  of  the 
remaining  forty  per  cent  I  do  not  believe  that  the  people  need  to  raise 
one-half.  The  amount  of  labor  that  the  people  can  give  in  their  wards 
makes  up  the  difference.  Certainly  Zion  is  growing,  and  all  is  well. 

THE  TOWNSEND  PLAN 

We  have  on  at  the  present  time  a  great  political  campaign,  and  I 
want  to  say  to  the  Saints  that  I  hope  they  will  not  allow  their  political 
affiliations,  their  regard  for  political  affairs,  to  cause  feelings  of  ill-will 
towards  one  another.  I  have  had  some  of  the  most  insulting  letters 
that  ever  came  to  me,  condemning  me  for  not  being  in  favor  of  the 
Townsend  Plan,  and  that  I  must  be  ignorant  of  the  Plan.  I  am  not 
ignorant  of  the  Plan.  I  have  not  read  every  word  of  it,  but  I  have 
asked  one  of  my  secretaries  to  read  every  word  of  the  Plan  and  to  give 
me  the  important  points,  and  to  my  mind  it  is  in  direct  opposition  to 
everything  I  have  quoted  here  today  from  Brigham  Young  and  from 
the  revelations  of  the  Lord.  The  idea  of  allowing  every  man  and  woman 
who  has  reached  the  age  of  sixty  years  and  wishes  to  retire  from  working 
to  get  $200  a  month  from  the  government !  There  is  nothing  truer  than 
Brigham  Young's  statement,  that  we  should  give  nothing  to  people, 
unless  they  are  not  able  to  work,  without  requiring  them  to  do  something 
for  it. 

I  want  to  say  to  the  people  that  one  of  my  nearest  and  dearest 
relatives  criticised  me  for  not  favoring  the  Townsend  Plan.  I  love  him 
just  as  much  as  though  he  did  not  criticise  me.  I  am  perfectly  willing 
for  him  to  think  and  believe  and  act  just  as  he  wants  to  do,  I  want  every- 
body to  do  this ;  I  do  not  want  the  people  of  the  Church,  when  they  are 
working  for  the  government,  to  work  by  the  day — by  the  day — by  the 
day ;  but  I  do  want  them  to  work  by  the  job,  by  the  job,  by  the  job. 

Let  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  has  a  farm,  farm  it,  and  not  try  to 
borrow  money  to  be  paid  back  by  the  government.  Let  every  man  feel 
that  he  is  the  architect  and  builder  of  his  own  life,  and  that  he  proposes 
to  make  a  success  of  it  by  working.  "Six  days  shalt  thou  labor  and  do 
all  thy  work,"  and  rest  on  the  seventh,  and  do  not  be  willing  to  labor  four 
or  five  days  and  then  only  half  labor.  Let  every  Latter-day  Saint  give 
value  received  for  everything  he  gets,  whether  it  be  in  work,  or  whatever 
he  does. 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Speaking  of  the  political  campaign  that  is  on,  I  have  often  remarked 
that  I  thought  politics  are  a  little  like  the  measles.  I  have  been  assured 
that  measles  are  never  at  all  bad  if  they  do  not  set  in  on  you;  if  you 
will  take  a  little  saffron  tea  and  keep  them  on  the  surface  they  are  all 
right,  but  when  they  set  in  on  you  they  make  you  crosseyed,  and  I  have 
heard  that  they  also  turn  the  hide  yellow. 

HYMNS  WORTH  MEMORIZING 

I  would  like  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  learn  the  hymn  and  repeat 
it  to  himself  time  and  time  again  during  this  campaign — you  will  find  it 
on  page  66  of  the  Hymn  Book.  I  will  tell  you  how  I  remember  that 
page.  We  hold  conferences  on  the  6th  of  April  and  the  6th  of  October, 
provided  the  6th  of  October  comes  so  that  we  can  have  a  Sunday  near 
that  date,  you  can  all  remember  six  for  October  and  six  for  April,  and 
that  is  sixty-six,  and  that  is  the  page  on  which  the  hymn  is  found ;  so  you 
cannot  say  "I  would  like  to  learn  that,  but  I  do  not  know  where  it  is," 
you  cannot  forget  where  it  is. 

Should  you  feel  inclined  to  censure 

Faults  you  may  in  others  view, 
Ask  your  own  heart,  ere  you  venture, 

If  that  has  not  failings  too. 

Let  not  friendly  vows  be  broken ; 

Rather  strive  a  friend  to  gain ; 
Many  a  word  in  anger  spoken 

Finds  its  passage  home  again. 

Do  not,  then,  in  idle  pleasure, 

Trifle  with  a  brother's  fame, 
Guard  it  as  a  valued  treasure, 

Sacred  as  your  own  good  name. 

Do  not  form  opinions  blindly; 

Hastiness  to  trouble  tends, 
Those  of  whom  we  thought  unkindly, 

Oft  become  our  warmest  friends. 

Then  there  is  another  hymn  I  would  like  you  all  to  learn,  which 
you  will  find  in  the  same  book,  I  cannot  tell  you  the  page,  but  it  is  there. 
I  tried  to  get  it  into  the  Hymn  Book  for  forty  odd  years  before  I  suc- 
ceeded, but  I  distributed  thousands  and  thousands  of  copies  of  it  in 
America  and  while  I  was  over  in  Europe  in  the  missionary  field  and 
asked  every  missionary  to  learn  it  before  it  was  published  in  our  psalmody. 
I  first  heard  it  as  I  was  traveling  to  Oakley  in  Idaho  with  President 
Francis  M.  Lyman  55  years  ago.  He  sang  the  song,  and  that  night  at 
camp  as  we  were  sleeping  on  the  ground  I  asked  him  to  repeat  it  to 
me.   I  wrote  it  down  and  I  learned  it  the  next  day  as  we  were  traveling. 

Incidentally  there  is  no  greater  evidence  of  the  growth  of  the  Church 
that  I  can  give  than  by  telling  of  that  trip.  I  traveled  forty  miles  from 
Tooele  to  Salt  Lake,  then  through  Salt  Lake,  Davis  and  Weber  Stakes, 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


twenty  miles  to  Brigham  City,  and  two  days  and  a  half  west  from 
Brigham  City,  sleeping  on  the  ground  two  nights,  to  a  branch  of  the 
Grantsville  Ward  of  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion,  known  as  Oakley.  I 
think  we  have  at  least  a  half  a  dozen  stakes,  if  not  more,  west  of  Brigham 
City  now.  My  first  official  motion,  I  believe,  after  I  was  made  an 
Apostle,  was  to  present  Oakley  and  other  wards — three  or  four  of  them 
and  some  branches — to  the  Box  Elder  Stake.  The  growth  in  that 
country  is  remarkable. 

This  hymn  is  as  follows: 

Let  each  man  learn  to  know  himself ; 
To  gain  this  knowledge,  let  him  labor, 
Improve  those  failings  in  himself 
Which  he  condemns  so  in  his  neighbor. 
How  lenient  our  own  faults  we  view, 
And  conscience'  voice  adroitly  smother ; 
But  oh !  how  harshly  we  review 
The  self-same  errors  in  another ! 

And  if  you  meet  an  erring  one 

Whose  deeds  are  blamable  or  thoughtless, 

Consider,  ere  you  cast  the  stone, 

If  you  yourself  be  pure  and  faultless. 

Oh !  list  to  that  small  voice  within, 

Whose  whisperings  oft  make  men  confounded, 

And  trumpet  not  another's  sin, 

You'd  blush  deep  if  your  own  were  sounded. 

And  in  self-judgment,  if  you  find, 

Your  deeds  to  others  are  superior, 

To  you  has  Providence  been  kind, 

As  you  should  be  to  those  inferior ; 

Example  sheds  a  genial  ray 

Of  light  which  men  are  apt  to  borrow ; 

So,  first  improve  yourself  today, 

And  then  improve  your  friends  tomorrow. 

The  first  part  of  the  first  verse  is  the  chorus,  but  I  like  the  last  half 
of  the  last  verse  for  the  chorus,  so  I  will  repeat  it : 

Example  sheds  a  genial  ray 

Of  light  which  men  are  apt  to  borrow ; 

So,  first  improve  yourself  today, 

And  then  improve  your  friends  tomorrow. 

WORK  A  BENEFIT 

I  do  not  ask  any  man  or  child  in  this  Church,  although  I  will  be 
eighty  years  of  age  next  month,  to  work  any  more  hours  than  I  do.  I 
have  worked  more  than  one  day  from  half  past  three  in  the  morning  until 
nine  o'clock  at  night.  Do  you  know,  I  do  not  think  work  ever  hurts 
anybody.  I  do  not  know  of  anything  that  destroys  a  person's  health 
more  quickly  than  not  working.  It  seems  to  me  that  lazy  people  die 
young  while  those  who  are  ready  and  willing  to  labor  and  who  ask  the 
Lord  day  by  day  to  help  them  to  do  more  in  the  future  than  they  have 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ever  done  in  the  past,  these  are  the  people  whom  the  Lord  loves,  and  they 
live  to  a  good  old  age. 

MAKES  APPEAL 

Please,  every  Latter-day  Saint  farmer,  farm  your  land,  because  if 
you  do  not  you  will  lose  your  inheritance,  and  some  one  else  will  get 
possession  of  it  sooner  or  later.  Do  not  take  anything  which  you  are 
capable  of  producing  yourself. 

A  TESTIMONY 

I  am  grateful  beyond  all  the  power  and  ability  with  which  God  has 
given  me  to  express  myself  for  a  knowledge  that  he  lives,  that  God 
is  our  Father,  and  that  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Redeemer  and  Savior. 

May  the  Lord  help  you  and  me  and  every  soul  who  has  that  knowl- 
edge to  labor  with  all  the  ability  which  we  possess  to  bring  others  to  that 
same  knowledge,  by  our  example.  Oh,  how  grateful  I  am  to  our  Heaven- 
ly Father  that  he  saw  fit  to  choose  Joseph  Smith  as  the  instrument 
in  his  hand  of  establishing  again  upon  the  earth  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation.  May  the  Lord  bless  you  one  and  all,  and  bless  every  honest 
soul  upon  the  earth,  and  help  every  Latter-day  Saint  to  so  live  that  his 
example  will  shine  and  that  it  will  help  to  bring  others  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our  Re- 
deemer, Amen. 

A  vocal  solo,  "Still,  Still  With  Thee,"  was  sung  by  Mrs.  D.  Sterling 
Wheelwright. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Read  the  following  report  of  changes  in  Church  officers,  and  in  stake, 
ward  and  branch  organizations  since  the  April,  1936,  Conference : 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND  BRANCH 
ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  APRIL  CONFERENCE,  1936 

New  Mission  Presidents : 

The  Mexican  Mission  was  divided  with  President  Harold  W.  Pratt 
over  the  Mexican  Mission  (in  Mexico)  and  Orlando  C.  Williams  ap- 
pointed President  of  the  Spanish  American  Mission  (Mexican  Mission  in 
U.  S.)  with  headquarters  in  Mexico  City  and  El  Paso,  Texas,  respectively. 

W.  Frank  Bailey  has  been  appointed  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mis- 
sion to  succeed  Castle  H.  Murphy.  (Pres.  Murphy  released  last  April.) 

Richard  R.  Lyman  appointed  President  of  the  European  Mission  to 
succeed  Joseph  F.  Merrill. 

A.  Richard  Peterson  appointed  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 
to  succeed  Milton  H.  Knudson. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


17 


Gustive  O.  Larson  appointed  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission  to 
succeed  Hugo  D.  E.  Peterson. 

New  Temple  President : 

Edward  L.  Clissold  appointed  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Temple  to 
succeed  Ralph  E.  Woolley  (acting-  President). 

Other  Special  Appointments : 

J.  Wiley  Sessions  appointed  Director  of  Missionary  Home  to  suc- 
ceed President  John  H.  Taylor. 

Eugene  J.  Neff  appointed  to  preside  over  Bureau  of  Information 
at  Palmyra,  New  York. 

General  Committee — Church  Security  Program : 
Melvin  J.  Ballard,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Mark  Austin 
Campbell  E.  Brown 
Stringham  Stevens 
Henry  D.  Moyle 

New  Stakes  Organized : 

Pasadena  Stake  created  by  the  division  of  the  Hollywood  Stake. 
The  new  stake  is  composed  of  the  Alhambra,  Burbank,  Elysian  Park, 
Garvanza,  Glendale,  Hollywood,  Pasadena  and  North  Hollywood  Wards 
and  San  Fernando  Branch.  This  leaves  the  Adams  Ward  (transferred 
from  Los  Angeles  Stake),  Arlington,  Englewood,  Mar  Vista,  Santa 
Monica  and  Wilshire  Wards  and  El  Segundo  Branch  in  the  Hollywood 
Stake. 

Long  Beach  Stake  created  by  the  division  of  the  Los  Angeles  Stake. 
The  new  stake  is  composed  of  Anaheim,  Compton,  Long  Beach,  Redondo, 
San  Pedro,  Santa  Ana,  Torrance,  North  Long  Beach  and  Wilmington 
Wards  and  Huntington  Beach  Branch.  (Anaheim,  Santa  Ana  and 
Huntington  Beach  were  taken  from  the  California  Mission)  ;  leaving 
Alta  Vista,  Belvedere,  Huntington  Park,  Manchester,  Matthews,  Hay- 
wood, South  Gate,  Vermont,  Walnut  Park  and  Whittier  Wards  in  the 
Los  Angeles  Stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

David  H.  Cannon  appointed  President  of  the  new  Pasadena  Stake 
(He  was  formerly  president  of  Hollywood  Stake). 

Wilford  G.  Edling  appointed  President  of  Hollywood  Stake. 

John  W.  Jones  appointed  President  of  the  new  Long  Beach  Stake. 

Hyrum  T.  Moss  appointed  President  of  the  Rigby  Stake  to  succeed 
John  W.  Hart  (deceased). 

Joseph  B.  Harris  appointed  President  of  San  Juan  Stake  to  succeed 
Wayne  H.  Redd  (deceased). 

Thomas  George  Wood  appointed  President  of  Taylor  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed Heber  S.  Allen. 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Hervin  Bunderson  appointed  President  of  Box  Elder  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed S.  Norman  Lee. 

Henry  C.  Jacobs  appointed  President  of  North  Sanpete  Stake  to 
succeed  Soren  M.  Neilsen. 

John  Franklin  Killian  appointed  President  of  Emery  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed A.  Richard  Peterson. 

New  Wards  Organised: 

Challis  Ward,  Lost  River  Stake,  organized  from  independent  branch. 

Twin  Falls  Ward,  Twin  Falls  Stake,  divided  into  the  Twin  Falls 
First  and  Twin  Falls  Second  Wards.  The  Second  Ward  retained  old 
bishopric. 

Picture  Butte  Ward,  Lethbridge  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
the  Diamond  Ward. 

Walnut  Park  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
Huntington  Park  Ward. 

Anaheim  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  branch  in  California 
Mission. 

Santa  Ana  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  a  branch  in  Cali- 
fornia Mission. 

Redondo  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  an  independent  branch 
in  Hollywood  Stake. 

Mt.  Olympus  Ward,  Cottonwood  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
the  Holliday  Ward. 

Whittier  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  formerly  an  independent  branch 
in  same  stake. 

Kanab  North  and  Kanab  South  Wards  created  by  the  division  of 
the  Kanab  Ward,  Kanab  Stake. 

Idaho  Falls  5th  Ward,  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
the  Idaho  Falls  2nd  Ward. 

Idaho  Falls  6th  Ward,  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  created  by  the  division  of 
the  Idaho  Falls  3rd  Ward. 

Gilmer  Park  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  created  by  dividing  Yale  and 
LeGrand  Wards. 

Boise  3rd  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  created  by  dividing  Boise  First  and 
Boise  Second  Wards. 

Grandview  Ward,  Grant  Stake,  created  from  Wilford  and  East 
Mill  Creek  Wards. 

New  Independent  Branches  Organized : 

Romeo  Independent  Branch,  San  Luis  Stake,  organized  from  de- 
pendent branch. 

Indianola  Branch,  North  Sanpete  Stake,  formerly  part  of  Milburn 
Ward. 

Vale  Branch,  Boise  Stake,  formerly  a  dependent  branch. 
Huntington  Beach  Branch,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  a  branch 
of  California  Mission. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


19 


Wards  With  New  Names: 

North  Long  Beach  Ward,  Long  Beach  Stake,  formerly  Virginia 
Ward. 

Alta  Vista  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  formerly  Boyle  Heights  Ward 
of  Hollywood  Stake. 

North  Hollywood  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake,  formerly  Lankershim 
Ward. 

Grass  Valley  Ward,  Gridley  Stake,  formerly  Nevada  City  Ward. 

Ward  Disorganized : 

Merrill  Ward,  Portneuf  Stake,  disorganized  and  made  dependent 
branch  of  McCammon  Ward. 

Branches  Disorganised : 

Lomita  Branch,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  became  part  of  Wilmington 
Ward. 

Pittsburg  Branch,  Oakland  Stake,  became  part  of  Martinez  Ward. 

Bishops  Reported  Died : 

Ernest  N.  Scofield,  Bishop  of  Fish  Haven  Ward,  Bear  Lake  Stake. 
Ray  B.  West,  Bishop  of  Logan  5th  Ward,  Cache  Stake. 
Hyrum  L.  Neves,  Bishop  of  Burlington,  Big  Horn  Stake. 

Stake  Patriarchs  Reported  Died : 

Alma  H.  Findlay,  Bear  Lake  Stake  Patriarch. 
Heber  J.  Sheffield,  North  Davis  Stake  Patriarch. 
Joseph  Keddington,  Liberty  Stake  Patriarch. 
Ira  W.  Hatch,  Panguitch  Stake  Patriarch. 

Ralph  R.  Cardon,  Teton  Stake,  Patriarch  and  first  counselor  in  the 
Teton  Stake  Presidency. 

Others  Who  Have  Died: 

Lizzie  Thomas  Edwards,  singer. 
Willard  Young,  son  of  Brigham  Young. 

Jeannette  Acord  Hyde,  former  member  of  the  General  Board  of 
the  Relief  Society. 

Brigham  Frederick  Grant,  former  general  manager  of  the  Des- 
eret  News,  and  wife,  Johanna  Schulter  Grant. 

Elbert  H.  Eastmond,  Professor  of  Arts,  Brigham  Young  University. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  generally  heard  from  our  mission  presidents  on  the  last 
day  of  conference.  We  will  hear  from  some  of  them  today  and  tomor- 
row, and  would  like  them  not  to  exceed  ten  minutes  each  in  their  remarks. 

ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  I  could  do  no  better  in  reporting 
the  Eastern  States  Mission  than  to  tell  you  in  a  few  words  of  some  of  the 


20 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


work  being  done  by  your  sons  and  daughters  who  are  laboring  in  that 
mission. 

At  our  annual  Palmyra  conference  in  July  of  this  year  we  held  a 
meeting  and  banquet  attended  only  by  missionaries.  The  entire  program 
was  provided  by  the  missionaries  themselves.  They  planned  it  and  carried 
it  out,  and  I  am  sure  that  it  reflected  their  true  feelings.  The  subject 
of  their  banquet  program  was  "Monuments."  I  was  reminded  of  this 
during  the  talk  of  President  Grant.  I  cannot  name  all  of  the  subjects 
treated  at  this  moment  but  will  name  some  of  them. 

"The  Seagull  Monument"  was  assigned  to  one  missionary,  and 
around  that  monument  she  wove  a  beautiful  talk  on  faith  and  trust  in 
God,  and  then  earnestly  pleaded  with  her  fellow  companions  to  exhibit 
in  their  lives  the  same  fine  qualities  that  had  been  exhibited  by  their 
fathers. 

Another  missionary  was  assigned  "The  Mormon  Battalion  Monu- 
ment," and  he  made  an  earnest  plea  for  patriotism  and  courage. 

Another  was  assigned  "The  Monument  at  Cumorah  Hill."  He 
spoke  eloquently,  and  may  I  say  touchingly,  upon  the  subject  of  immor- 
tality and  the  deep  appreciation  of  the  faith  that  had  come  into  his  life 
by  reason  of  contact  with  that  monument.  Anticipating  the  monument 
at  Florence,  Nebraska,  another  missionary  spoke  of  fidelity  and  courage, 
and  closed  with  a  wonderful  appeal  for  all  present  to  exhibit  the  same 
fine  qualities  in  missionary  life. 

I  would  not  have  you  believe  that  it  was  all  serious,  some  of  it  was 
high  type  fun  and  wit,  but  when  we  closed  those  who  were  there  said : 
"This  is  one  of  the  finest  entertainments  of  my  life,  because  with  wit  and 
fun  have  been  interspersed  and  interwoven  some  of  the  finest  ideals  for 
life  and  for  the  Church  I  have  ever  heard." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  your  boys  and  your  girls  are  carrying  on  under 
that  kind  of  influence  and  under  these  lessons  which  this  Church  teaches. 

A  few  days  ago  my  attention  was  called  to  an  article  in  a  magazine 
in  which  the  author  had  severely  criticised  the  religions  of  the  day.  He  had 
contended  that  there  was  no  progressive  philosophy  in  any  of  the  so-called 
religions  of  the  world,  a  philosophy  that  met  the  problems  of  life.  I 
thought  this  morning,  I  wish  that  author  could  understand  the  spirit 
and  genius  of  Mormonism ;  I  wish  he  could  know  truly  the  philosophy  of 
life  as  taught  in  this  religion ;  I  wish  he  could  know  how  basic  principles 
are  translated  into  the  lives  of  those  who  accept  and  obey  the  Mormon 
religion.  I  wonder  if  anyone  can  listen  to  a  speech  such  as  that  delivered 
this  morning  by  the  President  of  the  Church  and  feel  that  there  is  not  a 
true  philosophy,  a  progressive  philosophy  of  life  in  at  least  one  of  the 
religions  of  this  world.  If  anything  could  be  more  basic  than  that  to 
which  we  have  listened  I  cannot  think  what  it  would  be. 

To  know  that  to  serve  God  best  we  serve  our  f ellowmen  most ;  to 
believe  in  our  Government,  to  obey  its  laws,  to  understand  and  respect  its 
basic  law  especially,  what  could  be  higher,  what  could  be  more  conducive 
to  good  citizenship  than  that  ?  Surely  it  is  satisfying  to  know  that  work, 
honest  work  brings  its  reward,  in  a  consciousness  of  duty  well  done.  Oh, 


ELDER  DON  B.  COLTON 


21 


I  do  hope  and  pray  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  shall  go  from  this  confer- 
ence more  firmly  resolved  than  ever  to  live  the  Gospel,  to  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God,  to  forget  not  the  basic  things  in  our  religion.  I 
hope  we  shall  carry  them  back  to  our  homes,  that  we  shall  not  forget  to 
pray,  that  we  shall  not  forget  to  study  the  scriptures,  that  we  shall  not 
forget  that  the  home  is  the  unit  that  shall  endure  forever. 

Basic  ?  Yes.  Let  us  not  forget  the  basic  principles  of  the  Gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  May  I  read  to  you  in  conclusion  a  text  that  came 
to  me  as  I  was  called  so  unexpectedly  to  the  stand  to  speak  to  you  this 
morning : 

Wherefore,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  know  that  if  ye  shall  follow  the 
Son,  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  acting  no  hypocrisy  and  no  deception  before 
God,  but  with  real  intent,  repenting  of  your  sins,  witnessing  unto  the  Father 
that  ye  are  willing  to  take  upon  you  the  name  of  Christ,  by  baptism — 
yea,  by  following  your  Lord  and  your  Savior  down  into  the  water,  according 
to  his  word,  behold,  then  shall  ye  receive  the  Holy  Ghost ;  yea,  then  cometh 
the  baptism  of  fire  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost ;  and  then  can  ye  speak  with  the 
tongue  of  angels,  and  shout  praises  unto  the  Holy  One  of  Israel. 

I  commend  to  you  these  words  of  Nephi  as  found  in  the  31st  chapter 
of  II  Nephi. 

I  bear  you  my  solemn  testimony  that  I  do  know  that  there  is  a  re- 
ligion that  has  a  basic  philosophy  of  life  so  progressive,  that  it  meets 
every  requirement  of  life.  That  religion  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
revealed  and  re-established  upon  earth  in  this  day.  How  glorious  and 
splendid  it  is  to  be  one  of  the  missionaries  preaching  that  Gospel ! 

May  God  help  us  to  appreciate  and  understand  our  responsibilities 
and  to  meet  them  nobly  and  manfully,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

c 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

It  is  a  great  responsibility  to  speak  here.  This  tabernacle  subdues 
one's  feelings  and  lifts  up  his  heart.  I  do  not  think  the  Church  has  ever 
erected  a  monument  that  has  become  so  widely  known  as  this  historic 
building.  It  testifies  of  the  wisdom  and  sacrifice  of  a  generation  that 
has  gone. 

The  Northern  States  Mission  has  been  presided  over  by  a  long  line 
of  strong  and  devoted  men  and  is  well  established.  Any  ordinary  man 
who  will  look  after  the  common  duties  connected  with  it  should  be  able 
to  carry  it  forward. 

It  does  one  good  to  go  away  from  home  and  look  at  his  people  at 
a  distance.  The  perspective  gives  one  a  better  appreciation  of  them 
and  of  their  achievements. 

Brother  Colton  has  made  reference  to  some  of  the  monuments 
erected  by  the  Church.  As  I  walked  down  Temple  Avenue  this  morning 
and  saw  the  figure  of  Moroni  which  crowns  the  highest  spire  of  this 
beautiful  temple  in  front  of  me  I  was  reminded  that  for  twenty-five 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


years,  almost  daily,  I  looked  upon  that  figure  which  symbolizes  the  res- 
toration of  the  Gospel  in  this  dispensation,  but  never  before  have  I  ap- 
preciated as  I  do  now  its  significance. 

That  figure  crowns  two  buildings  and  one  monument — the  Salt  Lake 
Temple,  the  Washington  chapel,  and  the  monument  at  Palmyra,  New 
York. 

I  have  traveled  over  the  states  in  my  mission  and  have  noted 
with  pride  and  satisfaction  the  magnificent  monuments  erected  to  the 
heroic  dead  in  that  land.  One  of  the  finest  monuments  in  the  world 
stands  in  Springfield,  Illinois,  erected  to  Abraham  Lincoln.  But  never 
before,  in  any  land  or  at  any  time,  has  an  enlightened  people  erected 
a  monument  to  a  person  commemorating  what  he  did  after  he  was 
dead.  This  is  a  most  remarkable  thing.  And  the  fact  that  gives  emphasis 
to  it  is  the  character  of  the  people  who  did  it. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  not  a  highly  emotional  people,  given  to 
hysteria.  On  the  contrary,  they  are  a  matter-of-fact,  practical,  thorough- 
going people.  To  know  that  they  have  implicit  faith  in  all  that  the 
monument  commemorates — the  appearance  of  a  resurrected  and  immortal 
being  to  a  young  man  in  this  generation — is  a  significant  thing.  This 
is  material  proof  that  personality  persists  after  death  and  that  the  res- 
urrection is  a  glorious  reality.  I  know  of  no  other  monument  like  that. 
This  is  a  marvelous  testimony  in  a  day  of  unbelief  and  skepticism. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  a  few  of  us  have  been  commissioned  to 
preach  the  Gospel  in  the  world — you  have  been  called  upon  to  live  it,  and 
the  sermon  which  you  preach  carries  a  conviction  that  words  can  never  do. 

It  is  a  matter  of  pride  and  satisfaction  to  know  that  when  strangers 
visit  you  they  are  impressed  with  you  and  with  your  religion. 

We  are  made  the  custodians  of  great  and  precious  truths — truths 
that  will  save  and  regenerate  the  world,  and  we  are  called  upon  to  declare 
these  truths  to  the  world.  God  help  us  to  do  it  in  a  way  that  will  reflect 
credit  upon  the  people  which  we  represent  and  be  acceptable  to  him  I 
humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  Southern  States  Mission 

This  is  a  great  honor,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  have  the  privilege 
of  representing  the  Southern  States  Mission  and  the  fine  army  of  young 
men  and  women  who  are  there  as  missionaries  from  the  wards  and  stakes 
of  Zion.  I  feel  very  grateful  for  my  membership  in  the  Church.  I  have 
learned  to  love  it  more  than  I  love  my  life,  and  I  love  it  because  I  see  what 
it  accomplishes  in  the  lives  of  men  and  women. 

I  am  grateful  that  we  are  being  led  by  prophets  of  the  Lord.  I  real- 
ize that  the  Lord  has  committed  to  us  a  great  program,  and  if  we  live  up 
to  it  and  apply  it  in  our  lives  it  will  make  us  better  men  and  women.  Justly 
can  we  come  together  and  sing,  "We  thank  thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet, 
to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days,"  and  while  we  sing  this  with  all  our  hearts 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


23 


and  souls  there  are  men  and  women  all  over  the  world  who  are  in 
spiritual  despair,  who  realize  the  need  of  prophets  to  guide  us  in  these 
days. 

Some  of  these  men  reside  down  in  that  southland  from  which  I  came 
to  attend  this  conference. 

In  the  August  9th  issue  of  the  Journal,  one  of  the  largest  papers 
in  Atlanta,  Bishop  Warren  A.  Candler  of  the  Methodist  church,  one  of 
the  outstanding  leaders  of  Atlanta,  decried  the  condition  of  the  people, 
saying  that  the  whole  world  and  especially  our  country  needs  a  revival 
of  genuine  religion,  and  closes  his  article  with  these  words:  "We  need 
the  reappearance  of  prophets  sent  from  God." 

The  world  is  clamoring  for  that  kind  of  leadership. 

Another  article  that  appeared  during  the  month  of  August  in  the 
Alabama  Christian  Advocate,  a  Methodist  paper,  "The  Cry  for  Proph- 
ets" contained  the  following: 

O  timorous  Church  of  Christ, 

Cease  counting  your  gain  and  losses ! 
The  future,  imperilled,  is  calling 

With  the  voice  of  a  million  crosses ! 
Calling  for  faithful  prophets  and  seers, 

To  rise  up  and  prophesy — 
To  kindle  a  fading  vision  afresh, 

Lest  a  visionless  people  die. 

Our  sins  are  many,  our  needs  are  sore; 

O  prophet,  show  us  the  roll — 
Take  up  the  scales  of  God  once  more, 

And  weigh  the  things  of  the  soul. 
Point  not  alone  to  the  patriarchs 

For  the  leading  we  need  today — 
Scrolls  of  the  Ancients  we  cherish, 

But  the  prophets  must  lead  the  way. 

In  our  mission  we  point  out  to  the  people  that  we  have  no  quarrel 
with  their  churches,  we  are  willing  to  grant  all  they  have  to  offer.  This 
great  church,  led  by  prophets  of  God,  is  in  the  earth  to  take  up  where 
they  leave  off.  It  presents  a  constructive  program  to  assist  men  and 
women  to  overcome  their  bad  habits,  to  enlist  them  in  the  service  of  God 
our  Eternal  Father,  to  surround  their  boys  and  girls  through  its  auxiliary 
organizations  and  the  marvelous  program  they  have  to  present,  with  an 
influence  that  preserves  them  in  their  virtue  and  in  their  integrity,  and  in 
their  manhood  and  womanhood. 

The  Atlanta  Constitution  of  August  9th  last,  reports  an  address  by 
Reverend  Peter  Marshall,  of  the  Westminster  Presbyterian  church  of 
Atlanta,  while  visiting  a  Bible  conference  in  Virginia,  where  he  made  the 
statement  that  every  condition  that  preceded  the  fall  of  empires  of  the  past 
faced  America  today.  He  said  we  should  awaken  to  a  realization  of  this 
fact.  "In  Atlanta,"  he  said,  "society  thinks  it  cute  for  debutantes  to  be 
carried  home  Monday  morning  gloriously  drunk."  And  then  he  appeals 
to  the  young  people  and  says  he  hopes  the  youth  will  rise  above  the 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

standards  of  their  parents.  But  it  is  very  difficult  for  water  to  rise 
above  its  source. 

Recently,  in  Carolina,  I  presented  our  youth  program  at  one  of  our 
conference  sessions.  Following  the  meeting  a  lady  school  teacher,  not  a 
member  of  our  Church,  a  woman  with  much  experience  and  dearly  be- 
loved, came  to  me  and  said :  "President  Richards,  I  would  like  to  volun- 
teer my  services  to  help  put  over  that  program  in  this  community.  We 
have  discussed  the  possibility  of  a  program  for  the  young  people  in  our 
schools,  but  we  realize  we  cannot  accomplish  it  because  when  we  have  a 
party  or  entertainment  we  have  to  contend  with  drunkenness  and  disor- 
derly conduct." 

I  said :  "Yes,  it  is  hard  to  raise  the  children  above  the  standards  of 
their  parents,  isn't  it?"  But  I  said :  "We  can  do  it  because  our  standards 
are  higher,  and  if  our  children  can  be  raised  to  the  standards  of  their  par- 
ents they  will  live  clean  lives."  She  volunteered  her  services  and  is 
now  helping  in  our  Mutual  work  in  that  community. 

We  feel  very  grateful  for  the  influence  of  the  M.  I.  A.  in  our  mission. 
During  the  month  of  August  we  held  four  inter-district  conventions, 
bringing  together  in  the  neighborhood  of  three  or  four  hundred  of  our 
young  people  each  time,  first  in  the  parks  with  our  athletics  and  games, 
and  then  in  the  evening  in  our  appreciation  work ;  and  in  the  parks  during 
three  such  events  I  saw  only  two  cigarettes  smoked. 

Compare  this  and  the  statement  which  appeared  recently  in  The 
Improvement  Era,  reporting  the  June  conference  here  in  Salt  Lake,  when 
approximately  nine  thousand  of  our  boys  and  girls  were  at  Saltair  Beach 
and  not  one  arrest  was  made  for  disorderly  conduct,  and  very  little  to- 
bacco seen  on  the  grounds,  and  no  one  found  intoxicated,  with  anything 
the  world  has  to  offer  in  its  leadership  of  youth. 

I  received  a  letter  from  one  of  our  missionaries  recently  upon  his 
release  from  a  six  months'  mission,  his  home  being  in  Jacksonville,  Flori- 
da, and  in  this  letter  he  expressed  his  gratitude  for  the  opportunity  he  had 
had  of  serving  as  a  missionary,  and  he  said  the  one  outstanding  thing  for 
which  he  was  grateful  was  his  association  with  the  Elders  of  that  mission. 
He  said :  "Before  I  came  on  my  mission,  not  one  of  my  boy  friends,  not 
of  the  Church,  did  I  know  to  be  morally  clean,  and  in  associating  with 
these  missionaries,  to  the  contrary,  I  found  none  who  had  not  been." 

Realizing  these  conditions,  why  shouldn't  we  thank  God  for  a  prophet 
to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days  ?  Why  shouldn't  we  realize  the  blessings 
that  are  ours  while  a  despairing  world  is  crying  for  prophets  to  point 
the  way? 

It  would  be  interesting  to  you  to  be  in  the  mission  office  at  Atlanta 
and  read  some  of  the  letters  we  receive.  We  received  a  letter  from  a  man 
in  Florida  recently  who  said  he  was  a  reader  of  the  Book  of  Mormon; 
he  had  found  it  the  most  interesting  document  he  had  ever  read  in  his  life, 
and  he  wondered  why  it  was  not  used  by  all  people  in  preference  to  the 
King  James  or  any  other  translation  of  the  Bible.  A  lady  wrote  in  from 
Alabama.  She  said  she  had  come  to  the  conclusion  "that  Mormonism  was 
the  only  true  religion,  and"  she  said,  "I  have  always  thought  I  could  never 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


25 


be  anything  but  a  Baptist."  Then  she  asked  for  a  price  list  of  our 
literature,  and  added :  "Mormonism  is  truly  the  most  wonderful  thing  I 
have  ever  heard  of.  I  have  read  different  philosophies,  psychology,  psy- 
chiatry, Christian  Science,  etc.,  in  fact  I  have  almost  exhausted  every 
source  of  information  in  search  of  answers  to  my  own  life's  problems ; 
needless  to  say  the  problems  were  not  solved,  but  now  I  have  hope."  Then 
she  added  a  word  of  gratitude  to  the  Mormon  Elders  who  called  at  her 
home. 

We  received  a  letter  from  a  minister  in  Ohio  telling  us  that  the  people 
in  his  city  were  not  willing  to  receive  the  full  gospel,  and  the  churches 
were  not  willing  to  have  the  full  gospel  preached  from  their  pulpits,  and 
he  said  he  had  been  given  to  understand  that  the  Mormons  possessed  the 
full  gospel,  and  he  would  like  to  receive  a  little  additional  information 
about  it. 

I  close  by  leaving  with  you  my  testimony  that  this  Gospel  is  in  the 
earth  to  exalt  men  and  women,  not  only  after  they  die  but  while  they  are 
here,  to  lift  them  up  from  the  common  ways  of  life.  It  makes  our  farmers 
so  that  they  do  not  just  go  out  and  farm,  and  return,  and  go  back  and  farm 
again,  and  sit  around  on  the  porch  as  they  do  in  some  places  where  I  have 
been,  with  no  aim  and  no  objective.  But  these  men  are  interested  in  the 
things  of  God,  they  are  interested  in  their  Father's  work,  they  are  inter- 
ested in  the  salvation  of  youth,  they  have  something  to  guide  the  destinies 
of  their  lives,  and  such  is  true  of  every  man  or  woman  who  understands 
the  beauty  and  the  philosophy  of  this  great  Church. 

I  thank  God,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  testimony  has  been  borne 
here  today,  for  the  privilege  of  representing  you  in  the  mission  field. 
I  am  grateful  for  this  work,  and  I  am  grateful  for  what  it  is  doing  for 
those  who  receive  and  embrace  it  and  I  am  grateful  for  prophets  to 
lead  the  way.  May  the  Lord  bless  you,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "High  on  the  Mountain  Top." 
Elder  A.  William  Lund,  Assistant  Church  Historian,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  second  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock  p.m. 
The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 
Elder  Albert  L.  Larsen,  President  of  the  San  Bernardino  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High,"  was  sung  by  the  congregation. 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


4 

BISHOP  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  in  attendance  at  this 
conference  and  to  be  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  which  is  the  Church  of  God. 

Soon  after  the  social  security  plan  was  announced  there  appeared  at 
the  office  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric  some  who  requested  to  join  the 
Church.  The  questions  put  to  them  brought  forth  the  statement  that 
they  liked  the  program  and  wanted  to  belong  to  a  church  which  took  care 
of  its  poor.  Nothing  else  seemed  to  matter,  the  main  objective  was  to 
be  fed  and  cared  for.  This  has  not  been  unusual  during  the  last  six 
months.  It  is  an  almost  daily  occurrence  at  the  Presiding  Bishop's 
Office.  People  generally,  it  seems,  have  very  little  conception  of  what 
it  means  to  belong  to  this  Church.  Generally,  they  will  say:  "What 
difference  does  it  make  to  what  church  you  belong,  they  all  lead  to  the 
same  end." 

I  am  not  surprised  at  this  coming  from  those  who  are  not  members 
and  who  are  not  familiar  with  the  obligations  placed  upon  members, 
but  I  am  shocked  to  find  so  many  who  claim  membership  who  apparently 
have  similar  ideas.  We  forget  sometimes  that  the  Church  of  our  Lord 
is  founded  upon  principles  with  a  promise,  and  to  obtain  exaltation  in 
his  kingdom  we  must  be  obedient  in  all  things.  The  Lord  has  made  it 
clear  to  us  that  it  is  the  responsibility  of  those  who  have  plenty,  to  care 
for  those  who  are  in  need,  but  he  modifies  that  to  the  extent  that  those 
who  are  worthy  may  have  claim  upon  the  Church.  We  find  in  going 
over  our  records  that  a  large  portion  of  those  who  are  in  need  are  not 
worthy  so  far  as  obedience  to  the  Gospel  plan  is  concerned,  for  they  are 
not  obedient  to,  nor  do  they  have  respect  for  the  laws  of  God.  Just  how 
far  our  responsibility  should  go  towards  those  who  find  themselves  in 
this  condition  is  a  question  that  must  be  answered  through  the  spirit 
of  love  and  fellowship. 

First,  it  is  our  responsibility,  if  they  have  been  baptized  and  have 
been  accepted  into  the  Church,  to  labor  with  them  diligently  in  the  spirit 
of  love ;  teach  them  the  Gospel  principles,  take  them  by  the  hand,  so  to 
speak,  (for  many  of  them  are  as  the  blind)  and  lead  them  into  the 
truth  and  the  light,  where  they  may  gain  an  understanding  of  the 
Church,  the  principles  thereof,  and  their  duty  regarding  these  principles. 
While  the  Church  is  responsible  for  its  poor,  it  is  clearly  set  forth  that 
it  is  the  duty  of  the  rich  to  give  of  their  substance  for  the  support  of  the 
poor.  The  Lord  has  said,  "I  say  unto  you,  be  one ;  and  if  ye  are  not 
one,  ye  are  not  mine." 

We  must  be  impressed  with  the  thought  that  those  who  are  poor 
are  not  entitled  to  help  unless  it  is  earned.  "The  soul  of  the  sluggard 
desireth  and  hath  nothing:  but  the  soul  of  the  diligent  shall  be  made 
fat."  And,  again,  "The  sluggard  will  not  plow  by  reason  of  the  cold; 
therefore  shall  he  beg  in  harvest."    (Prov.  20 :4) . 


BISHOP  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


27 


"Fear  not  to  do  good,  my  sons,  for  whatsoever  ye  sow,  that  shall  ye 
also  reap ;  therefore,  if  ye  sow  good  ye  shall  also  reap  good  for  your  re- 
ward." (D.  and  C.  6-33). 

In  the  early  history  of  the  Church  it  was  impressed  upon  the  leaders 
of  the  Church  to  urge  the  people  to  be  united,  to  have  all  things  in 
common,  that  there  should  be  no  poor  and  none  who  were  rich.  As  they 
moved  from  place  to  place  they  were  given  allotments,  which  were  called 
their  inheritance,  and  when  they  came  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains, 
again  allotments  were  given  to  Church  members  as  their  inheritance.  Men 
did  not  quarrel  over  the  choice  of  places ;  they  took  that  which  was 
assigned  to  them.  They  were  called  to  settle  the  valleys  of  the  mountains 
and  establish  homes.  They  could  have  taken  up  in  some  places  whole 
valleys,  but  their  call  was  a  mission,  and  the  land  was  secured  for  them 
and  those  who  should  follow.  This  has  been  a  Gospel  principle,  one  of 
the  principles  upon  which  the  Church  has  been  established,  a  principle 
which  obligates  us  in  this  day,  which  means  that  we  are  not  only  required 
to  become  familiar  with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  but  we  are  re- 
quired to  apply  those  principles  in  our  daily  walks  of  life ;  to  walk 
uprightly  before  the  Lord,  to  put  aside  selfishness  and  those  things 
which  come  into  the  lives  of  men  and  make  them  selfish  and  lacking  in 
consideration  one  for  another,  having  no  desire  to  be  helpful  to  one 
another. 

In  this  day  the  world  is  troubled  because  many  have  not  learned  to 
know  this  principle,  or  have  no  respect  for  it,  and  therefore  seek  to  take 
by  force  that  which  rightfully  belongs  to  someone  else.  The  world  seems 
to  be  full  of  strife  and  turmoil  because  of  selfishness,  lacking  in  con- 
sideration for  one  another. 

The  plan  of  the  Gospel  as  revealed  to  us  in  this  day  permits  us 
through  our  own  efforts,  our  own  faith,  our  own  obedience,  to  become 
equal,  equal  in  all  things.  How  many  will  receive  that  blessing?  How 
many  will  be  worthy  to  stand  in  that  group,  we  cannot  say. 

In  the  seventy-sixth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  the 
prophet  tells  us  of  his  vision  in  which  he  saw  the  Father  and  the  Son ; 
he  saw  the  glory  of  the  Celestial  kingdom  and  those  who  may  obtain  it ; 
the  glory  of  the  Terrestrial  kingdom,  and  the  glory  of  the  Telestial 
kingdom,  and  those  who  should  occupy  them,  showing  that  even  in  the 
time  to  come  there  will  be  a  division  of  equality.  This  condition  will  be 
brought  about  only  through  the  failure  of  the  children  of  God  to  be 
obedient  to  his  laws  which  he  has  established,  that  his  purposes  should 
be  brought  about  and  his  children  receive  exaltation  wherein  is  the  free 
agency  of  man,  which  makes  them  equal  in  all  things,  at  least  the  oppor- 
tunity to  be  equal  is  embodied  in  the  Lord's  plan  of  salvation. 

It  seems  to  me  that  we  should  keep  these  things  in  mind  when  we 
speak  of  charity,  of  relief,  the  priesthood,  and  the  Church,  for  it  takes 
each  individual  member  to  make  up  the  Church,  and  where  one  is  neglect- 
ed, where  one  is  left  to  flounder  alone  without  guidance,  someone  is 
responsible,  and  someone  will  be  called  to  account.  Therefore,  it  seems 
to  me  the  way  to  bring  about  this  condition  is  not  altogether  through  a 


28 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


division  of  property  to  make  men  equal,  but  through  living  in  harmony 
with  the  Gospel,  in  teaching  the  Gospel  in  that  energetic  manner  that  will 
carry  us  into  the  homes  of  the  wayward  ones,  those  who  hunger  and  thirst 
after  righteousness.  Many  of  them  may  not  know  the  cause  of  their 
hunger,  not  having  known,  or,  through  disobedience,  having  lost  the  taste 
for  spiritual  food ;  they  may  not  discover  the  cause  of  their  ailment 
unless  someone  who  understands  and  appreciates  the  blessing  thereof 
carries  this  spiritual  food  to  them,  feeds  them,  and  helps  them  to  under- 
stand. 

So  I  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  takes  more  than  food  to  prepare 
us  to  be  equal ;  it  takes  more  than  Gospel  principles  to  develop  the 
Church.  It  requires  the  untiring  effort  of  those  who  have  received  the 
priesthood,  and  thus  taken  upon  them  obligations  which  require  that  we 
serve  our  Father  faithfully  in  the  great  work  entrusted  to  our  care, 
this  obligation  having  come  to  us  through  acceptance  of  the  holy  priest- 
hood. 

May  we  be  worthy  of  the  Lord's  help,  may  we  become  more  united. 
With  turmoil  all  about  us,  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  that  we  draw  near 
together  in  spiritual  and  temporal  matters,  that  we  become  more  obedient 
to  the  commandments  of  God.  May  we  remember  to  pay  our  tithes  and 
offerings,  and  meet  together  often,  that  we  may  partake  of  his  Spirit  and 
be  edified,  strengthened  and  become  equal  in  his  sight.  May  he  bless 
us  to  this  end,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

I  shall  attempt  to  enumerate  briefly  the  unique  and  distinctive  con- 
tributions of  Joseph  Smith.  I  shall  not  try  to  appraise  their  relative  im- 
portance or  set  them  forth  in  logical  or  chronological  sequence.  Most 
of  these  contributions  are  in  the  field  of  theological  doctrine.  Some, 
however,  are  of  a  more  temporal  nature. 

CERTAINTY  CAME  WITH  FIRST  VISION 

I  name  first  a  new  conception  of  God  and  the  Godhead.  There 
can  be  no  doubt  that  in  the  religious  world  of  the  Prophet's  boyhood  there 
prevailed  a  very  nebulous  and  uncertain  doctrine  with  reference  to  the 
personality  of  God  and  the  personages  of  the  trinity.  The  creedal  state- 
ments of  the  day  appear  to  us  now  as  being  most  difficult  of  interpretation 
and  understanding  if  not  wholly  unintelligible.  To  this  situation  the 
First  Vision  brought  clarity,  definiteness  and  certainty,  not  as  the  product 
of  reasoning,  argument  and  sophistication  but  with  the  sureness  of  expe- 
rience. When  Joseph  came  out  of  the  grove  he  had  no  need  to  argue  for 
a  theory, — he  knew  the  facts.  God  is  in  form  like  a  man.  He  has  a  voice. 
He  speaks.  He  is  considerate  and  kind.  He  answers  prayer.  His  Son 
is  a  like  but  distinct  person.  He  is  obedient  to  the  Father  and  the  mediator 
between  God  and  man.  The  presumption  of  God  as  a  mere  essence  or 
principle  of  power  and  force  in  the  universe  was  for  all  time  exploded. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


29 


The  testimony  is  direct  and  positive  and  irrefutable.  Many  have  not 
believed  but  no  one  has  ever  had  the  knowledge  to  disprove  it.  The 
character  of  the  Holy  Ghost  as  a  member  of  the  Godhead  came  to  the 
Prophet  later  through  revelation  with  a  clarity  and  definiteness  exceeding 
other  scriptural  pronouncements  on  the  subject.  He  set  forth,  "The 
Father  has  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  man's ;  the  Son  also ; 
but  the  Holy  Ghost  has  not  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones,  but  is  a  personage 
of  spirit.  Were  it  not  so,  the  Holy  Ghost  could  not  dwell  in  us."  The 
identity  and  functions  of  the  Holy  Ghost  are  by  him  also  differentiated 
from  those  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  CONCEPTION  OF  PRIESTHOOD 

Second,  I  point  out  a  new  conception  of  the  nature  of  the  priesthood. 
I  pass  by  the  restoration  of  the  priesthood  on  which  there  is  testimony 
of  a  character  entitling  it  to  admissibility  in  any  tribunal,  because  the 
restoration  postulates  a  withdrawal  of  the  priesthood  from  men,  which 
is  a  controversial  subject.  On  the  nature,  duties  and  offices  of  the 
priesthood,  however,  I  look  in  vain  for  any  definitions  comparable  to 
those  given  by  the  Prophet. 

First  there  is  the  wide  distribution  of  the  powers  and  offices 
of  the  priesthood  among  men  and  boys  of  the  Church.  This  was 
a  complete  innovation  so  far  as  modern  Christian  practice  is  con- 
cerned. None  but  a  selected  few  had  ever  claimed  or  held  the 
right  before,  although  there  is  respectable  historical  evidence,  not  known 
to  the  Prophet,  to  warrant  the  belief  that  the  same  practice  was  extant 
in  the  early  church. 

But  even  more  important  in  its  novelty  do  I  regard  the  new  con- 
stitution of  the  priesthood  as  revealed  through  Joseph  Smith.  To 
my  thinking  there  is  nothing  more  beautiful  or  truly  Christ-like  in  all 
scripture  than  this  lovely  exposition  of  the  divine  commission  to  men 
to  act  in  the  name  of  God.  Listen : 

Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are 
they  not  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson — 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled 
nor  handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  under- 
take to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to 
exercise  control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children 
of  men,  in  any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw 
themselves ;  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn, 
Amen  to  the  priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. — Doctrine  and 
Covenants  121 :34-37  Incl. 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned; 

By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the 
soul  without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile— 


30 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy; 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords 
of  death. 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly ;  then 
shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine 
of  the  priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth  ;  and  thy  dominion  shall 
be  an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow 
unto  thee  forever  and  ever. — Doctrine  and  Covenants  121  :41-46  Incl. 

Here  is  the  genius  of  the  government  of  Christ.  No  compulsion, — 
just  persuasion;  no  unrighteousness  or  autocracy, — only  goodness  and 
love.  Here  is  the  answer  to  the  religious  intolerance  and  crimes  of  the 
centuries ;  the  complete  refutation  of  the  alleged  injustice  of  God. 

NEW  CONCEPTS  THROUGH  LATTER-DAY  REVELATION 

I  mention  next  the  matter  of  new  revelation,  by  which  is  meant  divine 
communication  from  God  to  men  in  these  latter  days.  While  this  subject 
is  highly  important,  I  need  not  elaborate  it, — first,  because  it  is  well  un- 
derstood both  within  and  without  the  Church ;  and  second,  because  its 
novelty  has  never  been  denied.  I  do  not  mean  that  the  validity  of  the 
revelations  to  Joseph  Smith  have  not  been  denied.  They  have, — but 
all  concede  the  principle  and  practice  to  be  an  innovation.  All  logical 
persons  will  likewise  concede  that  this  doctrine  once  established  is  the 
end  of  all  controversy  as  to  authoritative  religion. 

Then  comes  the  new  concept  of  man,  his  past,  present  and  future 
state.  I  do  not  maintain  that  ideas  had  not  been  advanced,  prior  to  the 
Prophet's  time,  that  were  in  some  respects  comparable  to  his.  Undoubt- 
edly the  pre-existent  state  of  man  was  in  the  belief  of  many.  It  could 
not  be  otherwise  with  students  of  the  Bible,  but  no  such  comprehensive, 
coherent,  and  definite  understanding  as  that  set  forth  by  the  Prophet 
had  ever  appeared  before.  The  continuity  of  intelligence  and  intelli- 
gencies ;  the  fatherhood, — and  motherhood  too,  of  our  individual  spirits ; 
the  free  agency  and  choice  which  were  ours  in  the  pre-earth  lif e  ;  spiritual 
creation  preceding  mortal  creation ;  the  relationship  of  body  to  spirit 
in  this  life  and  in  the  hereafter,  the  transcendent  scheme  of  eternal 
progression, — all  these  and  many  related  items  constitute  a  unified,  logical, 
authoritative  exposition  without  counterpart  in  Christian  literature. 

Of  special  interest  is  the  concept  of  the  body  as  tabernacle  of  the 
spirit.  A  philosophy  of  temporal  living  has  been  built  around  this  idea. 
In  it  a  man's  body  is  a  sacred  thing.  It  is  not  his  own  to  be  violated  with 
impunity.  God  provided  it  in  the  form  of  and  as  t#he  house  of  his  spirit. 
Any  conscious,  wilful  impairment  of  the  body  is  an  affront  to  God. 
And  so  it  follows  that  the  care  of  the  body  has  real  spiritual  significance. 
It  is  doubtful  if  any  religious  body  at  any  time  ever  received  a  more 
unique  and  novel  doctrine  than  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  the  inhibitions 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


31 


of  which  are  known  to  many  but  the  underlying  philosophy  of  which 
is  understood  by  few. 

Closely  related  to  the  state  of  man  is  the  concept  of  the  whole  human 
family  as  the  children  of  God.  On  this  subject  many  entirely  new 
contributions  were  made  by  Joseph  Smith.  He  established  the  universal 
justice  and  love  of  God  for  all  His  children  as  no  one  else  has  ever  done. 
His  theology  denies  the  resurrection  to  none.  All  shall  come  forth  from 
the  grave ;  all  bodies  shall  be  reunited  with  spirits  to  constitute  eternal 
souls,  through  the  universal  redemption  of  the  Savior.  There  will  be 
general  salvation  for  all  in  the  sense  in  which  the  term  is  generally  used, 
but  salvation,  meaning  resurrection,  is  not  exaltation.  In  the  hereafter, 
as  in  this  life,  there  are  degrees  of  glory,  preferential  places  and  con- 
ditions. Goodness  and  obedience  will  bring  their  rewards,  the  highest 
of  which  is  to  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God  and  His  Son.  The  prescribed 
requirements  of  the  Gospel,  such  as  baptism,  confirmation,  and  other 
ordinances  are  not  prerequisites  for  the  resurrection  as  many  suppose. 
They  are  necessary  only  for  exaltation, — the  highest  station. 

Exaltation  is  not  planned  merely  for  a  few  select  ones.  It  is  designed 
for  all  who  will  prepare  to  enter  the  Kingdom.  Everyone  is  given  the 
opportunity  to  prepare,  not  only  those  living  but  they  who  have  died,  as 
well.   Such  is  the  justice  of  the  Father. 

THE  PURPOSE  OF  TEMPLE  WORK 

That  brings  me  to  another  inestimable  contribution,  wholly  dis- 
tinctive and  novel.  Strange  it  is  that  with  the  rather  frequent  mention 
in  the  Hebrew  scriptures  of  temples  and  with  the  pointed  and  oft  quoted 
reference  to  baptism  for  the  dead  that  Joseph  Smith  should  have  been 
the  first  of  all  Christians  to  conceive  the  purpose  of  temples  and  institute 
vicarious  work  for  the  dead.  This  great  project  of  the  latter  days 
deserves  an  extended  treatise  of  itself.  It  must  suffice  for  my  present 
purpose  merely  to  call  attention  to  it.  In  its  ramifications  and  compre- 
hensiveness it  embraces  substantially  the  entire  scope  of  the  Gospel. 
The  story  of  life  is  simplified  for  the  understanding  of  men.  Through 
the  eternal  powers  of  the  restored  priesthood,  ordinances  and  ceremonies 
are  administered  in  preparation  for  entrance  into  the  Celestial  Kingdom 
of  our  God,  and  the  dead  who  have  lived  without  opportunity  to  enjoy 
these  high  privileges  are  accorded,  through  the  service  of  their  kins- 
people,  the  same  rights  as  those  who  live. 

One  of  the  features  of  temple  work  should  for  emphasis  be  specially 
mentioned.  It  is  the  sealing  of  husband  and  wife  in  the  eternal  covenant 
of  marriage.  Joseph  Smith  taught  that  the  family  circle  is  the  founda- 
tion of  exaltation  and  that  its  projection  into  eternity  is  heaven  itself. 
He  sanctified  the  association  of  loved  ones.  He  made  the  father  a 
priest  and  the  mother  a  priestess  in  the  temple  of  the  home.  If  his 
glorious  interpretation  of  this  divine  institution  could  have  general 
application,  the  ills  of  society  would  be  cured  and  the  brotherhood  of 
mankind  established.    This  contribution  alone  entitles  him  to  a  place 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


on  the  very  summit  of  distinction  among  the  world's  philosophers  and 
benefactors. 

WISDOM  SHOWN  IN  CHURCH  ORGANIZATION 

The  limitations  of  this  opportunity  prevent  any  further  elaboration 
of  additional  items  within  the  scope  of  my  theme.  I  must  pass  them  with 
bare  mention.  The  organization  of  the  Church ;  its  phenomenal  growth ; 
its  quorums,  divisions,  agencies,  authorities,  officers;  its  incomparable 
missionary  system  were  all  the  product  of  the  inspiration,  the  wisdom 
and  vision  of  the  Prophet.  He  was  also  a  builder  of  cities,  a  statesman 
of  great  foresight  and  such  a  leader  of  men  that  even  after  death  his 
influence  has  grown  with  the  years. 

THE  WRITINGS  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH 

His  literary  labors  must  not  be  forgotten.  He  produced  more 
scripture,  that  is,  the  revealed  word  of  God,  than  any  other  man  of 
whom  we  have  record.  Indeed,  his  total  scriptural  productions  would 
almost  equal  those  of  all  others  put  together.  Within  the  pages  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  which  came  to  the  world  through  him,  are  to  be  found  such  truth 
gems  as,  "The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence" ;  "Men  are  that  they  might 
have  joy" ;  "For  behold,  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of  man" ;  a  clear  statement  of  the 
purpose  of  good  and  evil  in  the  world,  a  philosophical  problem  which 
has  baffled  the  scholars  of  all  times,  and  many  others  of  inestimable 
value.  There  also  came  from  him  such  memorable  sayings  as,  "It  is 
impossible  for  a  man  to  be  saved  in  ignorance" ;  "A  man  is  saved  no 
faster  than  he  gets  knowledge" ;  "Whatever  principle  of  intelligence  we 
attain  unto  in  this  life  it  will  rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection."  He  wrote 
history  and  dissertations  on  many  subjects  and  was  an  orator  of  mag- 
netism and  convincing  force. 

The  world's  enlightenment  of  the  century  following  his  life  has  not 
disclosed  a  single  error  in  his  theological  and  philosophical  pronounce- 
ments, and  the  society  which  he  established  is  without  question  the  peer, 
and  many  students  not  belonging  to  it  maintain  it  is  the  superior,  of  all 
social  systems  on  the  earth. 

What  is  the  explanation?  How  may  we  account  for  these  re- 
markable accomplishments,  these  transcendent  contributions  to  the  learn- 
ing, the  knowledge  and  wisdom  of  this  age? 

JOSEPH  SMITH  CHOSEN  OF  GOD 

The  critics  of  Joseph  Smith  have  ridiculed  him.  They  have  em- 
phasized the  crudity  of  his  youth,  his  lack  of  education  and  deprecated 
his  intelligence.  In  so  doing,  have  they  helped  find  the  explanation? 
Perhaps  they  have,  without  intent  on  their  part,  for  the  more  inadequate 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


33 


by  native  endowment  and  training  they  make  the  Prophet,  the  more 
certainly  do  they  lead  the  way  to  the  inevitable  conclusion  that  the 
explanation  he  makes  of  himself  and  his  work  is  the  only  explanation. 
If  he  had  been  proved  to  be  a  person  of  unusual  brilliance  and  education 
there  might  have  been  some  warrant  for  the  presumption  that  out  of  his 
own  mind  he  had  conceived  and  executed  all,  but  those  who  have  sought 
to  destroy  him  have  robbed  the  argument  of  that  premise.  Perhaps 
God  willed  it  so.  Even  the  inimical  and  abusive  typesetter  who  printed 
the  Book  of  Mormon  unwittingly  laid  a  stone  in  the  foundation  of  evi- 
dence establishing  the  truth  of  the  Prophet's  account  of  the  translation 
when  he  ridiculed  the  punctuation  and  composition  of  the  manuscript, 
the  sentences  and  words  being  run  together  as  they  naturally  would  be 
in  the  manner  of  dictation  to  the  scribe  described  by  the  Prophet. 

There  is  only  one  explanation  which  is  tenable.  God  chose  this 
man.  He  spoke  through  him.  The  virgin,  unsophisticated  mind  of  the 
youth  was  a  fertile  field  for  the  planting  of  spiritual  seeds.  They  grew 
and  matured  into  a  perfect  faith  that  brought  Joseph  into  partnership 
with  God.  When  that  came  to  be,  there  was  nothing  unattainable,  for 
as  we  are  told  of  old,  one  man  and  God  are  a  majority. 

Today  we  proclaim  him  Prophet  and  sing  his  praise  as  sincerely, 
as  devoutly,  as  reverently  as  they  did  one  hundred  years  ago  when 
they  sat  in  his  presence  and  felt  the  inspiration  of  his  influence  and  heard 
the  word  of  God  from  his  lips. 

Praise  to  the  man  who  communed  with  Jehovah ! 
Jesus  anointed  that  'Prophet  and  Seer' — 
Blessed  to  open  the  last  dispensation; 
Kings  shall  extol  him  and  nations  revere. 

A  CHARGE  TO  BE  TRUE 

It  would  seem  scarcely  necessary  to  point  out  the  obvious  con- 
clusion and  purpose  of  this  recital.  If  any  man  has  received  in  his  heart 
the  witness  of  the  divine  truth  embraced  in  the  contributions  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph,  I  charge  him  to  be  true, — true  to  his  testimony,  true 
to  the  Prophet,  the  founder,  true  to  the  cause  and  its  duly  commissioned 
leaders,  true  to  the  covenants  he  has  made  in  holy  places,  and  true  to 
the  brotherhood  of  man  in  the  service  that  he  renders.  If  any  man  has 
not  received  this  witness,  I  appeal  for  his  thoughtful,  prayerful,  sym- 
pathetic consideration.  I  offer  to  him,  out  of  the  experiences  of  my  life, 
a  humble  but  certain  assurance  that  if  he  will  receive  and  apply  the 
teachings  of  Joseph  Smith  he  will  be  made  happy.  Doubt  and  uncertainty 
will  leave  him.  Glorious  purpose  will  come  into  life.  Family  ties  will 
be  sweeter.  Friendships  will  be  dearer.  Service  will  be  nobler,  and 
the  peace  of  Christ  will  be  his  portion.  I  so  testify  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  vocal  solo,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  (Malotte)  was  sung  by  Rampton 
Barlow. 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


President  of  the  California  Mission 


My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a  glorious  thing  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  coming  home  once  every  six  months  to  meet  with  you  in  conference 
assembled  and  to  hear  the  instructions  that  come  to  us  from  the  brethren. 
The  organization  of  this  Church  is  marvelous,  the  opportunity  it  gives  its 
membership  to  do  good  work  is  remarkable,  and  no  one  could  be  a  worthy 
member  of  it  except  he  or  she  do  good  work. 

I  bring  greetings  from  California.  We  have  8,558  members  in  that 
great  mission  field,  and  106  missionaries  every  one  of  whom  is  enjoying 
good  health.  The  Lord  has  indeed  been  good  to  us  and  we  are  grateful 
for  his  blessings. 

I  was  thrilled  when  President  Grant  said  to  us  this  morning  that 
eighty-three  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  have  reported  that  the)''  are  able  to  take 
care  of  their  worthy  poor.  I  want  to  say  that  the  California  Mission  will 
take  care  of  its  worthy  poor.  The  spirit  of  the  membership  of  the  mission 
is  wonderful.  The  little  branch  of  Douglas,  Arizona,  with  264  members, 
remitted  only  a  few  weeks  ago  a  check  for  five  hundred  dollars,  represent- 
ing fast  offerings  which  they  desired  to  turn  into  the  mission  office  that 
we  might  have  means  to  help  some  other  branch  that  is  not  so  favored  as 
are  they.  Reports  from  every  branch  indicate  that  they  are  able  to  provide 
for  their  own  needs,  and  I  was  somewhat  chagrined  at  the  report  from 
one  branch  president  in  answer  to  the  questions  that  I  sent  out :  "When 
the  government  withholds  relief,  will  you  be  able  to  provide  for  those  in 
your  branch?"  He  replied,  "Yes,  for  when  our  relief  stops  we  will  go 
back  on  our  farms  and  earn  our  own  livelihood." 

This  morning  when  President  Grant  spoke  of  the  banker  I  thought 
of  that  instance.  I  wondered,  how  could  it  be  possible  that  Latter-day 
Saints  would  sit  idly  by  and  eat  the  bread  of  the  worker?  Truly  we  have 
led  the  way.  What  marvelous  editorials  have  appeared  in  the  papers  along 
the  coast,  commending  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
for  its  stand !  It  has  been  thrilling  to  read  them.  The  San  Francisco 
Chronicle  said:  "If  all  churches  would  but  follow  the  lead  of  the  Mor- 
mons, there  would  be  no  want  in  the  world." 

When  those  who  have  shall  give  to  those  who  have  not ;  when  the 
spirit  of  greed  is  overcome ;  when  selfishness  is  done  away,  truly  then  are 
we  a  brotherhood.  That  of  course  is  what  we  are  as  a  Church,  and 
faithful  members  of  this  Church  shall  never  want.  The  Lord  himself 
will  open  the  way  to  provide  for  all.  I  am  grateful  for  this  move  that 
has  been  made,  I  am  grateful  for  the  response  that  has  come  back  to  the 
brethren,  that  we  stand  behind  them  one  hundred  per  cent.  I  am  sure 
that  the  various  nations  of  the  earth  must  take  notice  of  what  love  is  ac- 
complishing among  the  people  in  Western  America. 

About  eight  months  ago  a  gentleman  came  from  Salt  Lake  City  to  - 
Los  Angeles.   He  came  to  talk  on  "The  New  Day  in  Mormonism."  I 
received  a  telephone  invitation  to  appear  at  this  meeting.  When  I  arrived 


ELDER  NICHOLAS  G.  SMITH 


35 


there,  to  my  surprise  it  was  composed  entirely  of  Presbyterian  ministers, 
and  this  good  man  proceeded  to  tell  them  what  the  Mormons  believed,  and 
of  all  the  absurd  things  I  ever  heard  he  uttered  them  there.  I  was  aston- 
ished that  in  this  day  such  accusations  could  be  made.  He  talked  of  blood 
atonement.  He  told  of  a  man  who  worked  for  Z.  C.  M.  I.  and  disappeared 
over  night,  the  supposition  being,  of  course,  that  the  Danites  had  taken 
him  and  his  life  had  been  sacrificed.  I  wondered  how  it  was  possible  that 
such  a  thing  could  be,  but  there  were  many  other  things  that  were  just  as 
ridiculous  uttered  by  this  man. 

Within  the  past  week,  in  fact  last  Sunday,  I  was  pleased  to  encounter 
a  different  spirit.  Again  I  was  invited  to  go  to  a  meeting  where  a  minister 
was  going  to  talk  on  the  Book  of  Mormon,  "What  the  other  man  thinks." 
Imagine  my  astonishment  when  that  good  man  stood  up  to  begin  his 
address,  and  began  reading  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  declaring  that  this  scripture  was  written  a  hundred 
years  ago,  and  that  the  man  who  wrote  it  must  have  been  inspired  from 
Almighty  God  or  he  could  not  have  said  such  things.  Then  he  stopped 
and  said:  "I  am  a  Presbyterian  minister,  I  am  not  a  member  of  the 
Mormon  Church,"  and  two  or  three  times  during  his  sermon  he  stopped 
to  let  us  know  that  he  was  not  a  Latter-day  Saint. 

This  man  was  Dr.  Carl  S.  Knopf,  dean  of  the  School  of  Religion 
of  the  University  of  Southern  California,  where  they  have  some  eleven 
thousand  students.  He  had  touched  "the  hem  of  the  garment"  of  one  of 
the  Apostles  of  the  living  God ;  he  had  come  under  the  influence  of  John  A. 
Widtsoe  and  so  had  been  changed,  for  tolerance  had  crept  into  his  heart 
and  a  spirit  of  f  raternalism  and  a  desire  to  clasp  hands  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints.  All  who  were  there  were  thrilled,  and  at  the  close  of  his 
sermon,  as  we  went  forward  to  shake  hands  with  him,  I  told  him  it  was 
the  finest  sermon  I  had  heard  on  Mormonism  for  a  long  time. 

A  woman  from  Wyoming  said :  "I  came  to  tell  you  that  what  you 
have  said  about  this  people  is  true.  I  was  opposed  to  them,  I  hated  the 
very  word  'Mormon',  but  I  was  astonished  when  I  went  to  Utah  to  live 
to  find  that  they  would  come  and  help  me  to  live  and  give  me  sustenance. 
I  have  been  amazed  at  what  I  have  seen  there,  and  what  you  have  said 
here  is  the  absolute  truth.   They  are  the  kindest  people  in  the  world." 

At  the  conclusion  of  his  sermon  he  uttered  a  prayer,  and  one  of  the 
missionaries  wrote  it  down.  He  quoted  from  Moroni  8th  chapter,  9th  to 
22nd  verses,  and  explained  it.  He  quoted  from  the  Articles  of  Faith  and 
pointed  out  in  how  many  instances  he  could  shake  hands  with  us.  He 
quoted  from  Moroni  9th  chapter  and  4th  verse,  and  Alma  11th  chapter 
43rd  and  45th  verses.   This  was  his  prayer : 

Our  Father,  it  is  just  a  little  difficult  to  understand  why  thou  hast 
so  made  us  that  we  can  have  these  radical  differences  of  opinion  and  yet 
at  many  points  have  such  wonderful  ideals  and  all  of  us  try  in  our  way 
to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  the  Master,  but,  our  Father,  we  do  pray  this, 
that  if  that  is  to  be  an  exercise  of  good  will  and  faith,  if  thou  hast  made 
us  different  just  so  we  can  exercise  charity  and  love  and  learn  how  to  love, 
even  without  having  identical  thought  ....  we  would  pray  that  thou 
give  us  the  spirit  of  understanding,  that  we  may  clasp  hands  with  our 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


fellow  men  and  even  clasping  hands  with  disagreement  in  some  of  our 
fundamental  thoughts,  yet  clasping  hands  with  agreement  on  some  of  the 
great  issues.  May  we  stand  shoulder  to  shoulder  for  those  issues  and 
make  the  world  better  because  we  believe  mightily  in  the  things  of  the 
Spirit.  So  we  pray  that  those  who  are  Methodists  may  be  good  Metho- 
dists, and  those  who  are  Presbyterians  be  good  Presbyterians,  and  those 
who  are  Mormons  be  good  Mormons.  O  Father,  we  realize  that  in  every 
one  of  these  divisions  of  thy  church  there  stands  the  central  figure  of 
Jesus  Christ,  that  in  every  one  of  these  divisions  there  are  many  good 
things.  Help  us  to  join  together  in  the  exaltation  of  the  good.  And  now 
we  pray  for  mercy  and  peace,  the  love  of  good,  the  faith,  the  fellowship 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  to  be  and  abide  now  and  always. 

Dr.  Knopf  said : 

I  am  reading  from  a  book,  not  a  cold  book  from  cold  library  shelves, 
but  I  am  reading  from  a  book,  (holding  up  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price)  that  has  been  the 
inspiration  of  a  young  man  who  has  now  come  to  the  University  to  teach 
courses  there.  When  one  of  the  professors  came  to  teach  religion  he 
said  that  only  one  or  two  students  would  not  suffice  for  his  attention, 
that  he  might  just  as  well  close  the  whole  thing  up.  This  young  Mormon 
man  said  he  would  be  delighted  to  give  all  his  time  if  he  could  save  but 
one,  and  he  would  be  happy  to  carry  on  his  class. 

The  doctor  was  thrilled  at  the  attitude  of  this  young  Mormon,  Brother 
Byron  Done,  who  is  taking  the  place  of  Dr.  Widtsoe. 

God  bless  this  Church  and  its  leadership.  I  know  that  he  is  blessing 
it.  I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  that  has  been  given  to  serve  in  it, 
and  hope  that  I  shall  always  be  worthy  of  the  confidence  that  has  been 
reposed  in  me.  That  God's  blessings  may  be  in  each  and  every  one  of  your 
homes,  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

I  am  indeed  happy  for  the  privilege  I  have  in  standing  before  you 
this  afternoon  and  reporting  briefly  the  Northwestern  States  Mission. 
We  have  been  highly  blessed  in  having  President  Grant  speak  to  us 
in  five  of  the  largest  cities  of  the  northwest  to  record  crowds.  His 
inspiring  sermons  were  received  with  gratitude  and  thanksgiving.  It 
is  beyond  my  power  to  express  the  gratitude  we  feel  in  having  President 
Grant  with  us  in  these  various  parts  of  the  country.  We  have  also 
been  honored  and  blessed  with  a  recent  visit  of  Apostle  Stephen  L. 
Richards  who  toured  a  part  of  the  mission  with  us.  He  left  valuable 
instructions  and  inspired  the  many  people  who  gathered  together  to 
hear  him.  His  advice  to  our  missionaries  was  inspirational  and  very 
helpful  to  them.  We  were  also  highly  favored  with  the  presence  of 
Apostle  George  Albert  Smith  and  others  of  the  general  authorities  of 
the  Church.  Naturally  we  feel  very  grateful  for  these  leaders  of  the 
Church. 

We  have  at  the  present  time  laboring  in  our  mission,  seventy-eight 
very  fine  missionaries.  These  young  men  and  women  are  striving  with 


ELDER  JOSEPH  QUINNEY,  JR. 


37 


all  their  might  to  deliver  the  message  that  has  been  vouchsafed  to  them 
into  the  homes  of  many  people,  upon  the  streets,  in  halls,  and  in  our 
various  meeting  places. 

We  have  had  some  sickness  among  our  missionaries,  but  I  am  very 
thankful  to  say  that  at  the  present  time,  they  are  all  well.  We  appreciate 
beyond  measure  the  help  they  are  receiving  from  their  homes.  The  faith 
and  the  prayers  that  are  being  exercised  in  their  behalf  are  a  sustaining 
power  in  the  great  responsibilities  that  have  been  placed  upon  them. 
These  young  men  and  women  need  the  encouraging  support  of  all. 

I  think  one  of  the  delightful  things  of  missionary  life  is  to  see  the 
development  and  growth  that  takes  place  in  the  hearts  and  in  the  minds 
of  these  young  men  and  women.  They  of  necessity  learn  the  value  of 
prayer.  They  appreciate  that  in  their  communion  with  God  comes  a 
strengthening  of  their  faith.  They  have  a  deeper  understanding  of  the 
Gospel,  a  finer  respect  for  the  authorities  of  the  Church,  indeed  they 
develop  an  assurance  that  the  work  in  which  they  are  engaged  is  of  God. 

I  believe  in  prayer.  It  brings  you  and  me  in  closer  touch  with  God, 
our  Eternal  Father.  To  my  mind,  there  is  no  thought  equal  to  a  thought 
of  God.  It  becomes  the  most  precious  and  holiest  thought  we  can  hold. 
Prayer  is  the  agency  through  which  we  obtain  a  firmer  testimony  con- 
cerning the  divinity  of  this  great  and  marvelous  work  that  has  been 
brought  to  us  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
Prayer  is  the  mellowing  power  that  gives  us  a  love  for  our  fellow  man. 

I  shall  never  forget  as  long  as  I  live  the  prescription  that  I  received 
from  President  E.  J.  Wood,  who  was  my  mission  president  on  the 
Samoan  Islands.  He  said,  "What  you  really  need  is  three  ounces  of 
evening  and  morning  prayer,  three  ounces  of  determination,  three  ounces 
of  diligence ;  place  them  in  a  bottle  of  adaptability,  shake  with  the  hand 
of  strength,  administer  with  the  power  of  faith,  and  I  believe  you  will 
get  along  all  right" — a  good  prescription  for  anyone.  It  needs  daily 
application  to  understand  its  power  and  effectiveness. 

I  believe  that  prayer  causes  us  or  enables  us  to  overcome  our  weak- 
nesses. Just  recently  I  picked  up  a  Millennial  Star  and  I  read  a  fine 
article  written  by  Elder  Stephen  L.  Richards,  a  part  of  which  I  quote : 
"Youth  should  know  that  obedience  is  not  bondage,  but  liberty — liberty 
under  law;  that  the  only  real  freedom  is  the  freedom  from  our  weak- 
nesses, from  the  vices,  the  remorse  of  conscience,  and  the  infraction 
of  law.  When  youth  understands  that  the  bending  of  the  will  in  obedience 
tends  to  liberty  and  joy,  then  lawlessness,  disrespect,  and  irreverence 
will  wane.  I  wish  that  youth  could  realize  that  the  only  death  to  be 
feared  is  the  death  that  is  the  wages  of  sin,  and  that  the  Gospel  program 
of  living  is  insurance  against  that  dreadful  calamity ;  that  the  command- 
ments of  God,  both  the  "shalts"  and  the  "shalt  nots,"  and  the  warnings, 
reproofs,  and  admonitions  of  God's  servants  are  all  kindly  calculated 
to  hedge  around  the  precious  age  of  youth  with  safeguards  which  shall 
protect  its  course  until  the  age  of  wisdom  and  judgment  shall  be  reached." 
These  truths  that  are  so  beautifully  expressed  seem  to  me  to  carry  a 
deep  and  abiding  truth.    When  anyone  succumbs  to  evil  thoughts  or 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


evil  doings,  he  loses  a  certain  amount  of  power  and  light ;  and  because 
of  this,  he  brings  himself  under  bondage  to  sin.  After  all,  freedom 
comes  to  one  in  overcoming  evil  tendencies.  Prayer  will  enable  us  to 
overcome  these  weaknesses,  and  at  the  same  time  provide  for  us  a 
faith  that  will  assure  us  that  God  lives  and  that  through  the  light  and 
power  of  his  Holy  Spirit  will  lead  us  along  the  paths  of  righteousness. 
I  believe  that  we  should  not  only  have  a  believing  faith,  but  we  should 
have  a  knowing  faith.  By  a  knowing  faith,  I  mean  the  assurance  that 
God  lives  and  he  does  answer  prayers.  I  think  that  one  of  the  most 
satisfying  things  is  that  assurance  that  comes  through  the  administration 
on  the  part  of  the  Elders  when  they  lay  their  hands  upon  the  sick,  that 
they  will  recover  from  their  afflictions.  This  gift  of  faith  is  developed 
through  the  agency  of  prayer  especially  when  that  prayer  is  answered 
upon  the  heads  of  those  who  may  be  stricken  with  sickness  and  disease. 

The  assurance  that  we  have  when  we  read  these  sublime  words  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  fills  one  with  joy  and  happiness:  "That 
which  is  of  God  is  light ;  and  he  that  receiveth  light,  and  continueth  in  God, 
receiveth  more  light ;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  and  brighter  until 
the  perfect  day."  This  is  a  perfect  scripture — so  full  of  faith  and 
assurance.  Again  I  quote:  "Faith  comes  by  hearing  the  word  of  God 
through  the  testimony  of  the  servants  of  God,  and  that  testimony  is 
always  attended  by  the  spirit  of  prophecy  and  revelation."  May  I  say 
to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  that  if  there  is  any  joy  in  the  world  it  is 
that  joy  which  accompanies  one  in  lifting  his  voice  in  the  defense  of  this 
great  and  mighty  work  which  has  been  revealed  to  us  in  this  day  and 
time.  When  we  are  in  possession  of  the  light  of  truth,  we  are  in  pos- 
session of  testimony ;  and  when  we  are  in  the  light  of  testimony,  we 
develop  a  love  for  our  fellow  man,  and  without  a  love  for  our  fellow 
man  it  would  indeed  be  hard  to  impress  him  with  the  Gospel  of  our  Lord 
and  Master,  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  through  a  love  for  our  fellow  man  that 
we  are  able  to  place  an  interpretation  upon  the  saving  graces  of  the 
Gospel. 

In  closing,  I  desire  to  leave  with  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  he  answers  prayer,  that  he  is  a  re  warder  of  them  who 
diligently  seek  him,  that  the  light  of  truth  comes  to  us  through  humble 
and  sincere  prayer.  I  bear  testimony  that  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  indeed  a  Prophet  of  Almighty  God,  raised  up  in  this  day  and  time 
to  restore  the  everlasting  Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 
I  sincerely  pray  that  God  will  bless  this  testimony  to  our  good  and 
to  his  service,  in  his  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  representing  that  great  contribution  of  this 
Church,  the  missionary  system,  I  have  joy  in  speaking  for  the  North  Cen- 
tral States  Mission.  This  is  a  fairly  new  mission  in  point  of  time.  There 
is  pioneering  yet  to  be  done,  but  growth  and  development  are  manifest. 


ELDER  WILFORD  W.  RICHARDS  39 

We  find  unusual  joy  in  our  association  with  the  young  men  and  women 
who  come  to  us  as  missionaries.  Seventy-three  of  them  are  there  at  the 
present  time,  laboring  in  love  and  harmony  and  in  loyalty.  I  think  it 
would  be  impossible  to  find  a  sweeter  spirit  of  service  than  that  manifest 
by  these  young  people.  Pushed  as  they  are  to  the  limit  of  service,  and  oft- 
times  feeling  their  personal  weaknesses,  they  come  to  rely  upon  the  Spirit 
of  our  Father  in  heaven,  which  is  their  safety.  There  isn't  anything  that 
they  will  not  attempt  when  invited  to  do  so.  They  are  teachable,  they  are 
desirous  of  using  sacredly  the  help  which  comes  from  their  homes.  As  I 
talk  to  some  of  the  missionaries  about  the  use  of  their  money,  and  the 
effort  expended  by  their  parents  at  home  to  secure  it,  I  am  reminded  of 
that  experience  recounted  in  the  life  of  King  David  of  Israel. 

King  David  and  his  men  were  being  pursued  by  the  Philistines  and 
were  seriously  in  need  of  water  to  drink.  Some  of  his  loyal  soldiers  took 
their  lives  in  their  hands  and  slowly  worked  past  the  lines  of  the  enemy 
to  secure  water  from  the  well  in  Bethlehem,  where  as  a  boy  David  had 
refreshed  himself.  When  the  water  was  brought  to  him,  he  was  overcome 
by  the  sacrifice  and  could  not  drink  it.  He  poured  it  out  unto  the  Lord. 

The  money  that  comes  into  the  missionary  field  is  being  used,  we 
think,  wisely.  We  hope  that  you  parents  at  home  will  feel  that  our  best 
wisdom  will  be  used  in  instructing  missionaries  in  its  use.  It  is  a  sacred 
thing,  this  giving  up  a  part  of  our  lives  and  our  money,  to  take  the  mes- 
sage to  the  world,  and  these  your  sons  and  daughters  are  dong  it  with 
dignity  and  power  in  the  North  Central  States  Mission. 

We  have  many  fine  members  in  that  mission,  something  less  than 
three  thousand,  scattered  through  the  States  and  some  of  the  Provinces 
of  Canada.  These  members  are  showing  remarkable  faith,  they  are  dili- 
gent in  their  effort  to  understand  and  live  the  Gospel.  They  are  sending 
their  sons  and  daughters  into  the  world  as  missionaries.  We  have  ten  in 
other  missions  giving  regular  and  full  time  service.  This  greatly  stimu- 
lates and  strengthens  the  families  and  branches  from  which  they  came. 
It  brings  a  number  of  our  members  to  Salt  Lake  City  with  the  mission- 
aries as  they  depart.  It  encourages  them  to  make  an  effort  to  go  to  the 
temple,  and  partake  of  those  many  other  active  spiritual  influences  which 
are  here. 

We  want  to  thank  you  brethren  and  sisters  here  at  home  who  have 
received  so  hospitably  the  members  from  the  mission  as  they  come  to 
visit  among  you.  They  return  to  us  greatly  encouraged.  They  find  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  practiced  here  and  rejoice  in  it.  These  members 
come  back  to  us  with  increased  spirit  and  testimony.  It  is  an  effective 
means  of  creating  strength  in  our  mission. 

A  number  of  things  emanating  from  the  headquarters  of  the  Church 
are  helping  us  in  our  work.  For  some  time,  of  course,  we  have  felt  the 
power  of  the  Bureau  of  Information  work  on  this  block.  We  find  that 
those  who  have  visited  here  are  always  ready  to  receive  the  missionaries 
and  to  learn  more  of  the  Church  which  they  represent. 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


In  our  territory  many  families  listen  regularly  to  the  Tabernacle 
choir  and  organ  recitals,  dedicating  that  Sunday  morning  period  to  wor- 
ship with  us.  The  Security  Program  offered  by  the  Church  has  opened 
an  avenue  of  discussion  in  the  homes  and  the  lives  of  many  upon  whom 
our  missionaries  call.  Not  only  has  it  opened  an  intense  interest,  but  it 
has  also  created  a  very  definite  responsibility.  The  eyes  of  the  world  are 
upon  us  and  we  are  expecting  to  carry  the  program  forward  with  com- 
plete success. 

The  travels  of  President  Grant  and  the  publicity  given  him  have 
done  much  to  give  us  audience.  The  radio  talks  and  especially  the 
Church  of  the  Air  programs  are  very  effective  for  good. 

All  of  these  activities  from  the  headquarters  of  the  Church  are  open- 
ing up  very  definite  opportunities  for  missionary  service.  It  isn't  often 
that  we  receive  visitors  from  the  headquarters  of  the  Church.  We  have 
been  recently  favored  with  visitors  from  the  Mutual  Improvement  Board 
— Brother  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  and  Sister  Clarissa  A.  Beesley — they  left  in 
our  mission  a  message  of  Mutual  Improvement  work  which  shall  inspire 
us  for  a  considerable  time.  We  appreciate  their  visit. 

The  outstanding  experience  of  the  year  was  the  visit  of  Elder  Char- 
les A.  Callis  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  who  spent  three  weeks  with  us. 
He  went  into  some  places  where  General  Authorities  of  the  Church  have 
not  been  able  to  visit  before.  He  attracted  the  attention  of  many  people  to 
our  meetings  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church.  Some  fifty  per  cent  or 
more  of  all  those  who  attended  these  twenty- four  public  meetings  were 
non-members.  He  bore  his  testimony  in  power  and  explained  the  Gospel 
with  clearness.  Meetings  were  held  with  the  missionaries  in  all  our  dis- 
tricts, he  inspired  them  in  their  work  and  left  them  his  blessing.  We  are 
grateful  for  his  visit  and  the  power  of  his  message  and  testimony.  We 
always  greatly  appreciate  the  visits  of  those  who  preside  over  us. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  missionary  work  is  making  headway 
and  is  attracting  attention — the  lump  is  gradually  being  leavened.  We  feel 
that  prejudice  is  being  broken  down  in  many  places.  We  are  able  to  con- 
tact people  now  where  two  years  ago  it  would  have  been  impossible.  Many 
invitations  are  coming  which  heretofore  never  would  have  been  received. 

We  are  grateful  for  the  kindness  of  the  Lord  unto  us,  for  the  trust 
and  confidence  of  our  brethren  in  presiding  positions  of  the  Church  to 
sustain  and  support  us  in  our  work  of  responsibility. 

May  God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  here  at  home.  We  are 
proud  of  your  efforts  and  those  of  your  missionary  sons  and  daughters. 
We  are  trying  to  use  those  efforts  to  the  glory  of  God  in  the  North  Cen- 
tral States  Mission.  May  peace  and  harmony  attend  the  members  of  this 
Church  everywhere,  to  the  end  that  we  may  all  walk  hand  in  hand  with 
God  and  his  purposes  in  the  accomplishment  of  this  great  and  important 
work,  which  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


41 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  meet  you  again  in  conference  and  partake  of  the 
fine  spirit  that  is  here.  The  friendly  mountains  surrounding  these 
valleys  are  a  welcome  sight  to  those  who  have  been  away  for  a  few 
months. 

It  has  been  in  the  mountains  that  God's  people  have  always  grown 
to  strength.  I  rather  think  it  was  the  sight  of  these  towering  peaks 
that  caused  Orson  Pratt  to  select,  as  his  subject  the  first  Sabbath  in  the 
valley,  Isaiah  2:2: 

And  it  shall  come  to  pass  in  the  last  days,  that  the  mountain  of  the 
house  of  the  Lord  shall  be  established  in  the  top  of  the  mountains,  and 
shall  be  exalted  above  the  hills ;  and  all  nations  shall  flow  unto  it. 

At  least,  those  of  us  who  have  once  partaken  of  the  spirit  of  these 
mountains  always  welcome  the  opportunity  to  return. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  bring  you  greetings  from  the  missionaries  and 
saints  in  the  Canadian  Mission.  Especially  to  those  parents  to  whom  I 
may  not  get  to  speak  personally,  I  am  happy  to  say  that  all  the  mis- 
sionaries are  well.  I  have  just  completed  a  tour  of  the  mission  and  found 
the  missionaries  happy  indeed  in  the  great  work  they  are  doing. 

The  fraternal  spirit  among  the  missionaries  is  wonderful.  The 
love  the  Gospel  gives  them  for  God's  children  seems  to  be  intensified 
for  their  fellow  workers  until  their  attitude  toward  each  other  is  wonder- 
ful, and  the  effect  on  their  lives  so  wholesome  that  they  are  envied  by 
the  people  of  the  world. 

A  bishop  of  the  Church  of  the  Christian  Brotherhood  told  me  that 
he  had  never  met  finer  men  than  our  Elders  with  whom  he  was  acquainted. 

The  missionaries  are  a  hard  working  group,  meeting  many  obstacles 
as  well  as  many  happy  situations.  I  know  of  no  work  that  calls  for 
greater  versatility,  better  judgment  and  more  sustained  effort  than  to 
be  a  successful  missionary,  neither  do  I  know  any  work  that  better 
prepares  one  for  a  happy,  successful  life. 

Last  June  we  were  greatly  blessed  by  a  visit  from  Elder  Charles 
A.  Callis.  We  toured  the  mission  by  automobile  covering  3,500  miles. 
The  farther  we  drove  and  the  more  meetings  we  held  the  better  Brother 
Callis  seemed  to  like  it.  He  inspired  us  all  with  his  energy  and  zeal 
for  the  work,  his  appreciation  for  the  beautiful  and  historic  spots  so 
numerous  in  the  Canadian  Mission,  and  above  all  with  his  knowledge 
and  testimony  of  the  Gospel. 

Sister  Beesley  of  the  Mutual  General  Board  came  to  Toronto  and 
held  a  Mutual  convention.  Her  visit  was  a  delight  to  the  large  crowd 
that  gathered  from  many  parts.  It  is  the  first  time,  as  far  as  I  know, 
that  a  General  Board  member  has  visited  the  Canadian  Mission.  The 
people  are  still  talking  of  Sister  Beesley's  splendid  discussions  and 
fine  spirit.  I  am  sure  that  the  fruits  of  this  visit  will  be  seen  in  Mutual 
work  throughout  the  year. 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  auxiliary  associations  of  the  Church,  especially  the  Relief 
Society,  M.  I.  A.,  and  Primary,  are  so  different  from  anything  found 
in  the  churches  of  the  world  and  so  admirably  fill  a  felt  need  that  they 
are  popular  with  the  people.  M  Men  and  Vanguard,  Gleaner  and  Bee- 
hive classes  are  usually  largely  non-members  of  the  Church  and  occa- 
sionally the  entire  class  is  non-members. 

A  mother  in  the  City  of  Ottumwa  came  to  the  lady  missionaries 
and  asked  them  to  try  to  interest  her  daughter  in  M.  I.  A,  for  she 
said  it  had  had  such  a  wholesome  effect  on  the  girl's  older  sister. 

It  has  been  but  a  short  time  since  we  established  missionaries  in 
the  city  of  Orillia  and  although  we  have  but  very  few  members,  the 
missionaries  there  established  a  Primary,  and  after  the  Primary  work 
had  been  going  for  about  three  weeks  mothers  came  to  these  young 
men  and  said:  "We  thank  you  for  the  fine  wholesome  influence  which 
this  work  is  having  upon  our  children  in  their  home  life." 

The  genealogical  work,  also,  is  very  attractive  to  the  people.  It 
appeals  to  everyone  who  hears  it.  A  newspaper  reporter  came  to  our 
home  a  week  or  two  ago  to  get  a  report  of  a  conference  we  were  holding 
in  Toronto.  We  told  her  something  of  the  genealogical  work  of  the 
Church  and  then  she  said : 

"That  is  the  most  interesting  thing  I  have  ever  heard  in  all  my 
life." 

Thus  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  filling  a  felt  need  in  the  world 
today. 

Dr.  George  H.  Betts,  a  noted  psychologist,  said  that  every  thinking 
man  is  asking  himself  these  questions : 

1.  Is  there  a  God?   Who?   What  kind?  Whence? 

2.  Whence  came  and  whither  goeth  man? 

3.  What  has  God  to  do  with  the  running  of  our  lives  and  the  universe? 

The  answer  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  all  these 
questions  is  so  definite  and  clear  that  all  may  understand. 

The  same  author  says  that  religion  should  do  the  following  three 
things  for  the  individual : 

1.  Religion  serves  the  individual  by  adding  to  his  serenity  of  mind, 
giving  him  hope,  sense  of  security,  and  happiness. 

2.  Religion  defines  a  way  of  life,  outlines  a  system  of  ethics,  provides 
certain  norms  for  conduct,  sets  up  ideals. 

3.  Religion  motivates  certain  lines  of  conduct,  supplies  the  drive  for  the 
pursuit  of  ideals,  gives  fortitude  to  withstand  hardships. 

From  this  point  of  view  it  seems  that  religion  was  never  so  needed 
as  in  the  present  condition  of  the  world. 

But  for  religion  to  set  up  ideals  and  define  life's  goals  and  motivate 
conduct  and  supply  the  drive  for  carrying  out  the  ideals  it  must  be  a 
reli  gion  from  which  one  gets  a  personal  testimony  of  God  and  his 
relation  to  God  in  this  life  and  in  the  future. 


ELDER  ABEL  S.  RICH 


43 


So  many  people  fail  to  find  these  fine  things  in  religion  because 
their  religion  has  been  a  thing  apart  from  their  daily  life  and  they  have 
never  received  that  touch  of  divine  inspiration  that  gives  newness  of  life. 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  calls  one  to  action,  and  through  accom- 
plishment we  find  the  joy  that  passeth  understanding. 

From  a  clipping  from  a  recent  paper  we  get  the  following  interesting 
item  from  Joseph  Fort  Newton: 

NO  PARKING 

Einstein  tells  us  that  nowhere  in  the  universe  is  there  such  a  thing  as 
a  hitching-post.  No  doubt  he  is  right ;  but  why  should  he  put  the  truth  in 
the  language  of  horse  and  buggy  days  ? 

To  bring  his  idea  up  to  date  he  should  have  said  that  no  matter  how  far 
we  go  in  the  universe,  we  see  the  same  sign  which  faces  us  on  our  city 
streets — "No  Parking  on  Either  Side  at  Any  Time." 

There  it  is,  staring  us  in  the  face,  whether  we  like  it  or  not.  If  we  try 
to  pull  up  to  the  curb  and  stop,  a  blunt  voice  tells  us  brusquely  to  "Move  on" 
even  when  we  do  not  want  to  go  on. 

Otherwise  we  get  in  the  way,  hold  up  the  traffic,  and  halt  the  human 
procession.  Life  is  activity,  growth,  movement.  It  will  not  stand  hitched. 
If  we  stop  we  are  left  behind,  outdated,  outmoded. 

Life  is  effort,  struggle,  the  putting  forth  of  energy.  It  is  by  going  that 
we  arrive,  by  doing  that  we  learn.  We  live  on  a  slippery  slope.  If  we  do 
not  go  forward,  we  slip  back  and  lose  our  footing. 

It  is  so  on  all  the  roads  of  the  world.  In  any  walk  of  life,  if  a  man 
stops  thinking,  stops  studying  and  parks  his  mind,  he  loses  the  truth.  He 
ceases  to  be  a  leader  and  becomes  just  a  relic. 

"The  truth  goes  marching  on,"  sings  a  thrilling  hymn.  "Time  makes 
ancient  good  uncouth,"  a  great  poet  tells  us.  Unless  we  keep  step  with  the 
truth,  keep  our  minds  alert  and  active,  we  lose  it. 

There  is  always  truth  ahead,  more  truth,  new  truth,  new  light  to  break 
forth,  new  roads  to  travel,  new  goals  to  win,  The  Gospel  of  life  is  "The 
Gospel  of  going  on  and  still  to  be,"  rejoicing. 

Even  at  the  end  of  life  there  is  the  same  sign,  "No  parking."  Death 
is  only  another  beginning — the  greatest  of  all  adventures ;  and  heaven  is 
the  place  where  lost  things  are  found ! 

Thus  from  this  man  of  the  world  we  get  a  graphic  picture  of  the 
principle  of  eternal  progression  so  distinctly  a  doctrine  of  the  restored 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Because  of  these  outstanding  things  that  the  Gospel  has  for  the 
world,  that  are  so  distinctly  a  part  of  the  doctrine  of  our  Gospel,  we 
are  happy  in  our  work  in  the  Canadian  Mission.  The  missionaries  are 
a  loyal,  faithful  group.  Together  we  are  striving  to  carry  out  the  work 
as  outlined  by  the  authorities  of  the  Church.  We  feel  keenly  our  re- 
sponsibility and  the  trust  placed  in  us  and  are  thoughtfully  and  prayer- 
fully endeavoring  to  discharge  this  responsibility  to  the  benefit  of  the 
people  among  whom  we  are  working  and  we  are  receiving  a  joy  and 
happiness  that  gives  our  testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  Jesus  Christ  and  of 
the  divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith  increased  strength  day  by  day. 

I  humbly  pray  that  God  will  bless  and  strengthen  this  great  work, 
and  so  guide  and  bless  each  of  us  that  we  can  carry  well  our  part  of 
the  great  responsibility  that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  intrusted  to  us. 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


BISHOP  JOHN  WELLS 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  am  impressed  to  speak  to  you  on  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's 
Supper.  It  was  instituted  near  the  close  of  the  Master's  life.  His 
earthly  ministry  was  over,  his  public  service  was  ended.  He  was  staying 
at  Bethany  when  he  said  to  his  apostles,  "We  will  keep  the  Passover." 
He  sent  Peter  and  John  to  prepare  for  this  great  annual  event  and  said 
unto  them : 

Go  ye  into  the  city,  and  there  shall  meet  you  a  man  bearing  a 
pitcher  of  water :  follow  him. 

And  wheresoever  he  shall  go  in,  say  ye  to  the  good  man  of  the  house, 
The  Master  saith,  Where  is  the  guestchamber,  where  I  shall  eat  the 
passover  with  my  disciples? 

And  he  will  show  you  a  large  upper  room  furnished  and  prepared : 
there  make  ready  for  us. 

And  his  disciples  went  forth,  and  came  into  the  city,  and  found  as 
he  had  said  unto  them :  and  they  made  ready  the  passover. 

No  doubt  his  disciples  went  to  the  temple,  purchased  a  lamb  without 
blemish  and  prepared  it  in  the  room  they  had  rented.  And  when  the 
time  was  come  he  sat  down  with  the  Twelve.  They  partook  of  unleavened 
bread  and  bitter  herbs  which  reminded  them  of  their  sufferings  in  Egypt, 
and  of  the  roasted  lamb  procured  at  the  temple,  and  no  doubt  performed 
the  usual  rites  prescribed  by  the  strict  Jewish  ritual. 

When  the  Passover  ceremony  was  completed  and  while  they  were 
still  at  the  table  in  the  room,  the  Master  took  some  of  the  unleavened 
bread,  blessed  it  and  gave  to  each  of  his  disciples,  saying,  "Take,  eat ; 
this  is  my  body  which  is  given  for  you :  this  do  in  remembrance  of  me." 

He  then  took  the  cup  of  wine,  which  on  the  Passover  day  was  usually 
three-fourths  wine  and  one-fourth  water,  gave  thanks  and  blessed  it, 
and  gave  it  to  them  with  the  command :  "Drink  ye  all  of  it ;  for  this  is  my 
blood  of  the  new  testament,  which  is  shed  for  many  for  the  remission 
of  sins.  But  I  say  unto  you,  I  will  not  drink  henceforth  of  this  fruit  of 
the  vine,  until  that  day  when  I  drink  it  new  with  you  in  my  Father's 
kingdom." 

The  simple  ceremony  of  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's  Supper  was 
inaugurated  so  that  his  disciples  would  perpetually  remember  his  death, 
his  atonement,  and  his  teachings. 

The  Apostle  Paul  had  raised  up  a  branch  of  the  church  at  Corinth. 
Learning  that  there  were  some  abuses  growing  in  this  large  branch,  he 
wrote  them  a  letter  and  in  this  letter  he  said : 

For  I  have  received  of  the  Lord  that  which  also  I  delivered  unto  you, 
that  the  Lord  Jesus  the  same  night  in  which  he  was  betrayed  took  bread : 

And  when  he  had  given  thanks  he  brake  it  and  said,  Take  eat,  this 
is  my  body,  which  is  broken  for  you :  this  do  in  remembrance  of  me. 

After  the  same  manner  also  he  took  the  cup,  when  he  had  supped, 
saying,  This  cup  is  the  new  testament  in  my  blood :  this  do  ye,  as  oft  as 
ye  drink  it,  in  remembrance  of  me. 


BISHOP  JOHN  WELLS 


45 


For  as  often  as  ye  eat  bread,  and  drink  this  cnp,  ye  do  show  the 
Lord's  death  till  he  come. 

Wherefore,  whosoever  shall  eat  this  bread,  and  drink  this  cup  of 
the  Lord,  unworthily,  shall  be  guilty  of  the  body  and  blood  of  the  Lord. 

But  let  a  man  examine  himself,  and  so  let  him  eat  of  that  bread, 
and  drink  of  that  cup. 

For  he  that  eateth  and  drinketh  unworthily,  eateth  and  drinketh 
damnation  to  himself,  not  discerning  the  Lord's  body. 

For  this  cause  many  are  weak  and  sickly  among  you,  and  many  sleep. 

The  Apostles  were  no  doubt  strongly  impressed  with  the  solemn 
words  he  expressed  on  the  night  before  his  crucifixion.  The  unleavened 
bread  and  the  lamb  of  the  Passover  were  looked  upon  as  memorials 
of  their  deliverance  from  Egypt.  The  Passover  had  already  been  in- 
stituted to  remind  the  Jews  of  the  coming  of  Christ,  his  great  atoning 
sacrifice  which  he  should  make.  Now  the  old  Passover  symbol  had  been 
fulfilled.  Jesus  was  about  to  leave  them.  His  public  ministry  was 
ended.  He  would  no  longer  be  with  them  and  they  needed  some  common 
bond  which  would  link  them  to  each  other  and  to  their  Master,  and 
in  this  simple  but  impressive  manner  was  instituted  the  spiritual  bond 
or  covenant,  the  ordinance  known  to  us  as  the  sacrament  of  the  Lord's 
Supper.  The  bread  and  wine,  duly  consecrated  by  prayer,  became  em- 
blems of  the  Lord's  body  and  blood,  to  be  eaten  and  drunk  reverently  in 
remembrance  of  him.  This  ceremony  is  full  of  deep  spiritual  significance. 

When  the  Master  established  his  church  on  this  western  continent, 
he  did  not  leave  the  Nephites  in  doubt  as  to  his  identity,  nor  as  to  his 
wishes  concerning  the  Lord's  supper.  After  the  great  destruction  and 
cataclysm,  many  of  the  people  who  were  left  gathered  around  the  Land 
Bountiful.   A  voice  was  heard  among  all  the  inhabitants  of  the  land : 

Beheld,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God.  I  created  the  Heavens 
and  the  earth,  and  all  things  that  in  them  are.  I  was  with  the  Father 
from  the  beginning.  I  am  in  the  Father  and  the  Father  in  me;  and  in 
me  hath  the  Father  glorified  his  name. 

I  came  unto  my  own  and  my  own  received  me  not.  And  the  scriptures 
concerning  me  are  fulfilled. 

And  as  many  as  have  received  me,  to  them  have  I  given  to  become 
the  sons  of  God ;  and  even  so  will  I  to  as  many  as  shall  believe  on  my 
name,  for  behold,  by  me  redemption  cometh,  and  in  me  is  the  law  of  Moses 
fulfilled. 

I  am  the  light  and  the  life  of  the  world.  I  am  Alpha  and  Omega,  the 
beginning  and  the  end. 

And  ye  shall  offer  up  unto  me  no  more  the  shedding  of  blood ;  yea, 
your  sacrifices  and  your  burnt  offerings  shall  be  done  away,  for  I  will 
accept  none  of  your  sacrifices  and  your  burnt  offerings. 

And  ye  shall  offer  for  a  sacrifice  unto  me  a  broken  heart  and  a 
contrite  spirit.  And  whoso  cometh  unto  me  with  a  broken  heart  and  a 
contrite  spirit,  him  will  I  baptize  with  fire  and  with  the  Holy  Ghost  

Behold,  I  have  come  unto  the  world  to  bring  redemption  unto  the 
world,  to  save  the  world  from  sin. 

The  Savior  ministered  to  the  Nephites  and  taught  them  the  Gospel. 
Many  marvelous  things  happened  among  this  chosen  people.  But  now 
he  was  about  to  leave  and  in  order  that  they  might  be  kept  mindful  of 
his  coming  and  of  his  mission,  he  instituted  among  them  the  same  sacra- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ment  of  the  Lord's  supper,  as  he  had  among  the  disciples  on  the  eastern 
continent.  He  asked  his  disciples  to  bring  bread  and  wine,  and  while  they 
were  absent  he  had  the  people  sit  down  on  the  grass,  and  when  the 
disciples  brought  this  bread  and  wine  he  blessed  it  and  broke  the  bread, 
gave  it  to  his  disciples,  who  afterwards  gave  it  to  the  multitude.  He 
said  it  should  be  given  unto  the  people  of  his  church  and  to  all  those 
who  should  believe  and  be  baptized  in  his  name.  His  final  words  were 
as  follows : 

And  this  shall  ye  always  observe  to  do,  even  as  I  have  done,  even 
as  I  have  broken  bread  and  blessed  it  and  given  it  unto  you. 

And  this  shall  ye  do  in  remembrance  of  my  body,  which  I  have  shown 
unto  you.  And  it  shall  be  a  testimony  unto  the  Father  that  ye  do  always 
remember  me.  And  if  ye  do  always  remember  me  ye  shall  have  my  spirit 
to  be  with  you. 

He  emphasized  the  thought  that  in  partaking  of  the  bread  they  do 
it  in  remembrance  of  his  body,  and  in  partaking  of  the  wine  they  should 
do  it  in  remembrance  of  his  blood,  and  witness  unto  the  Father  that 
they  would  always  remember  him. 

On  the  6th  day  of  April,  1830,  when  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  was  organized,  and  after  the  usual  preliminaries 
preparatory  to  organizing  the  Church  under  the  laws  of  the  State  of 
New  York,  the  Prophet  and  his  friend,  Oliver  Cowdery,  were  sustained 
as  the  first  and  second  elders  of  the  Church,  and  then  the  sacrament 
of  the  Lord's  supper  was  administered  and  partaken  of  by  the  baptized 
members  of  the  Church  present  on  that  occasion.  At  that  meeting  the 
Saints  were  advised  that  it  was  expedient  that  the  Church  should  meet 
together  often,  and  partake  of  bread  and  wine  in  remembrance  of  the 
Lord  Jesus.  The  prayers  to  be  used  in  this  sacred  ordinance  were  also 
given.  Later,  while  the  Prophet  was  in  quest  of  wine  to  administer 
the  sacrament,  he  was  told  by  the  Lord : 

For,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that  it  mattereth  not  what  ye  shall  eat 
or  what  ye  shall  drink  when  ye  partake  of  the  sacrament,  if  it  so  be  that 
ye  do  it  with  an  eye  single  to  my  glcry — remembering  unto  the  Father 
my  body  which  was  laid  down  for  you,  and  my  blood  which  was  shed 
for  the  remission  of  your  sins. 

The  question  might  be  asked,  "How  often  should  we  partake  of 
these  emblems  ?"  The  Lord  has  not  left  us  in  doubt  about  this  matter,  for 
in  a  revelation  given  August  7,  1831,  known  as  Section  59,  the  Lord 
stated : 

Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness, 
even  that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the 
world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day. 

For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors, 
and  to  pay  thy  devotion  unto  the  Most  High. 

The  records  of  the  Church  show  that  many  members  absent  them- 
selves from  this  important  meeting.  Does  this  mean  that  we  do  not 
fully  understand  or  appreciate  the  importance  of  the  sacrament  and  the 


BISHOP  JOHN  WELLS  47 

blessings  that  come  from  partaking  of  it?  Every  individual  who  has 
complied  with  the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  and  has  become  a  member 
of  the  Church  is  expected  and  required  to  attend  the  sacramental  service 
on  the  Lord's  day  and  there  partake  of  this  holy  ordinance.  It  is  a 
privilege  to  be  counted  worthy  to  partake  of  this  sacrament. 

We  have  considered  the  institution  of  the  sacrament  by  the  Master 
himself,  with  its  impressive  purpose  of  being  an  abiding  memorial  of 
the  life,  teachings  and  Gospel  of  the  Master.  Now  let  us  consider  its 
benefits  and  blessings  to  us  as  members  of  the  Church. 

The  efficacy  of  partaking  of  the  sacrament  is  contingent  on  our 
worthiness.  We  must  partake  of  it  in  faith,  must  be  sincerely  repentant 
and  desire  forgiveness  for  ourselves  and  be  ready  to  forgive  others.  If 
we  partake  of  it  worthily,  with  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  in 
meekness,  reverence,  humility,  and  in  the  spirit  of  worship,  it  will  bring 
to  us  a  chastening  and  purifying  spirit. 

What  an  inspiration  and  strength  it  gives  to  know  there  is  someone 
who  is  so  interested  in  us  that  if  we  will  take  upon  us  his  name  and 
keep  his  commandments,  he,  in  turn,  promises  that  his  spirit  shall  abide 
with  us.  In  the  many  trials  and  temptations  of  life,  what  a  source  of 
comfort  this  promise  gives.  When  partaken  of  often  and  in  the  proper 
spirit,  it  is  a  safeguard  against  evil,  and  we  shall  develop  an  intimate 
fellowship  with  God  and  with  one  another.  It  will  give  us  a  richness 
of  spirit,  and  it  will  uplift,  ennoble  and  develop  an  active,  living  faith 
within  us. 

It  is  my  sincere  prayer  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  we  may  attend 
to  our  sacramental  meetings  and  reap  the  rich  blessings  in  store  for 
us.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  our  endeavors  to  do  so,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation,"  after 
which  the  closing  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Elmer  E.  Hinckley,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Nevada  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  Saturday  morning,  October  3. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORING  MEETING 

The  Conference  reconvened  Saturday  morning,  October  3,  at  10 
o'clock  a.  m. 

The  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  (Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett, 
director)  provided  the  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference,  and 
sang  as  an  opening  number  "Holy  Art  Thou,"  (Largo). 

Elder  Marvin  O.  Ashton,  President  of  the  Highland  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

An  alto  solo,  "List!  The  Cherubic  Host,"  (Gaul),  was  sung  by 
Mrs.  Emery  Epperson. 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tivelve  Apostles 

APPRECIATION  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  desire  to  express  to  the  Lord  in  your  presence,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  the  gratitude  I  feel  this  morning  for  the  blessings  of  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  I  am  thankful  that  my  grandparents  heard  and  received 
the  Gospel  in  their  native  land,  England — that  they  forsook  the  traditions 
and  the  religion  of  their  fathers  and  joined  with  the  Saints  in  Nauvoo 
and  later  came  to  these  valleys  of  the  mountains,  and  that  I  had  the 
privilege  of  being  born  of  goodly  parents  under  the  Celestial  law  of 
marriage  and  have  had  the  environment  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  of  faithful  men  and  women,  and  that  my  heart  has  been  inclined 
to  love  and  obey  the  truth. 

I  desire  to  show  to  the  Lord  my  appreciation  of  his  blessings  in  the 
ordinances,  the  gifts  and  all  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel  by  living  an 
orthodox  life,  being  orthodox  in  thought  and  in  my  living  and  in  my 
teaching.    A  true  Christian — that  is  what  I  would  like  to  be. 

CERTAINTY  CAME  WITH  VISION  OF  FATHER  AND  SON 

Expressive  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  I  desire  to  say  that 
as  I  view  it,  the  most  important  event  in  many  centuries  affecting 
mankind  occurred  in  Manchester,  New  York,  in  the  Spring  of  1820 
when  the  Father  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  revealed  themselves  anew 
to  the  world,  through  the  instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
whom  the  Lord  raised  up  for  this  and  other  important  purposes  per- 
taining to  the  welfare  of  mankind. 

Mankind  may  now  know  of  a  certainty  that  the  God  of  this  world 
is  a  personage  having  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  as  tangible  as  the  body 
of  mortal  man ;  and  that  he  is  an  immortal  being,  glorified  and  exalted, 
in  whose  image  and  likeness  man  is  created  and  made ;  and  that  the  Son 
is  in  the  express  image  of  the  Father.  This  revelation  and  the  restora- 
tion of  the  Gospel  which  followed  are  what  the  people  of  this  world 
needed  more  than  anything  and  everything  else. 

THE  GOSPEL  NOT  ALWAYS  ACCEPTED 

For  more  than  a  century  we  have,  as  a  Church,  been  preaching 
the  Gospel  to  the  world ;  but  as  a  rule  people  have  not  received  it.  They 
are  not,  however,  unlike  the  people  of  other  Gospel  dispensations  in 
this  respect.  The  Prophet  Isaiah  preached  the  Gospel  to  the  people 
of  his  day,  yet  we  find  him  saying,  "Who  hath  believed  our  report?" 
(Isaiah  53:1) 

The  Apostle  Paul  was  a  great  preacher  of  the  Gospel  in  his  day, 
and  yet  we  find  him  saying  to  the  Romans,  "But  they  have  not  all  obeyed 
the  Gospel,  for  Esaias  sayeth:  Lord,  who  have  believed  our  report?" 
(Rom.  10:16) 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


49 


Even  the  Savior's  forceful  teachings,  accompanied  by  mighty 
miracles,  did  not  convert  all  the  people.  It  is  our  responsibility  as  a 
people  to  continue  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  in  all  the  world  regardless 
of  who  may  or  may  not  accept  it.  To  them  that  hear  and  understand 
the  Gospel,  it  becomes  as  a  savor  of  life  or  death,  according  as  they 
accept  or  reject  it. 

We  came  to  earth  for  the  express  purpose  of  working  out  our 
salvation  according  to  the  plan  of  the  Gospel,  which  was  instituted  in 
the  councils  of  heaven  before  the  world  was;  and  which  has  been  re- 
stored to  earth  in  these  last  days.  One  of  the  conditions  of  salvation 
is  a  belief  in  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  as 
they  are,  also  a  belief  in  the  efficacy  of  the  atoning  blood  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

BELIEF  IN  GOD  AS  A  PERSONAL  BEING 

The  first  article  of  our  faith  reads,  "We  believe  in  God  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost."  The 
Holy  Ghost,  unlike  the  Father  and  the  Son,  is  a  personage  of  Spirit, 
without  flesh  and  bones.  The  faith  of  all  intelligent  beings  is  centered 
in  God;  and  it  is  necessary  that  they  have  a  correct  understanding  of 
his  personality  and  attributes  and  the  relationship  they  sustain  to  him. 
The  scriptures  of  the  Bible  support  the  doctrine  of  a  personal  God ;  but 
religionists  generally  do  not  accept  the  teachings  of  the  Scriptures  on 
that  point  of  doctrine. 

There  are,  however,  some  independent  thinkers  who  do.  Henry 
Ward  Beecher  was  one  of  them.  In  lecturing  to  a  class  of  students  who 
were  preparing  for  the  ministry  he  said : 

I  am  compelled  to  say  that  I  must  form  an  ideal  of  God,  through  his 
Son,  Jesus  Christ.  Christ  is  indispensable  to  me.  My  nature  needs  to 
fashion  the  thought  of  God,  though  I  know  him  to  be  a  spirit,  into  some- 
thing that  will  nearly  or  remotely  represent  that  which  I  know.  I  hold 
before  my  eyes  a  glorious  form,  therefore;  but  after  all  the  glory,  what- 
ever may  be  the  nimbus  and  the  effluence  around  about  it,  it  is  to  me  a 
glorified  form  of  a  glorified  man.  And  I  therefore  fashion  to  myself,  out 
of  the  Spirit,  that  which  has  to  me,  as  it  were,  a  divine  presence  and  a 
divine  being,  namely  a  divine  man.— Lecture  on  Preaching,  p.  129. 

NEED  FOR  NEW  REVELATION 

As  an  evidence  of  the  need  for  a  new  revelation  of  God,  such  as 
was  given  through  Joseph  Smith,  I  quote  from  a  sermon  by  the  Bishop 
of  Liverpool,  England,  as  reported  in  the  Lancashire  Post,  of  March  21, 
1912,  as  follows: 

One  of  the  great  needs  of  the  Christian  Church  is  power.  We  are 
living  in  an  age  of  great  material  power.  We  have  covered  the  land  with 
new  and  restored  churches  ;  we  have  spent  great  sums  of  money  on  Colleges 
and  ecclesiastical  buildings ;  we  have  improved  and  enriched  their  services. 
We  have  planted  new  missions  in  foreign  lands,  and  their  settlements  m  all 
the  great  towns.  Religion  today  is  wearing  silver  slippers,  and  moving  in 
high  places,  and  vet  I  venture  to  think  there  is  a  strange  want  of  power 


50 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


about  the  Church  of  God,  not  only  in  our  Church,  but  about  every  other 
branch.  The  Church  at  present  seems  almost  overmatched  by  the  power  of 
darkness.  Sometimes  it  seems  as  if  the  darkness  is  gaining  on  the  light. 
What  is  the  cause  of  the  strange  paralysis  that  has  befallen  the  Church? 

He  "believed  that  the  Church  needed  today  a  new  discovery  of 
God ;  the  Church  was  weak  today  because  God  was  so  distant,  so  unreal, 
so  dimly  seen."  The  Bishop  evidently  had  not  learned  of  the  new 
discovery  of  God  through  Joseph  Smith ;  but  to  him  the  need  for  such 
a  discovery  was  very  apparent. 

Naturally,  one  will  desire  to  know  what  are  the  teachings  of  that 
great  Angelican  Church  concerning  God,  that  he  should  be  to  them  so 
distant,  so  unreal,  so  dimly  seen.  It  is  explained  in  the  first  article 
of  their  religion  as  follows: 

There  is  one  living  and  true  God,  everlasting,  without  body,  parts,  or 
passions,  of  infinite  wisdom,  power,  and  goodness ;  the  maker  and  preserver 
of  all  things  visible  and  invisible,  and  in  the  unity  of  this  Godhead  there 
are  three  personages  of  one  substance,  power  and  eternity,  the  Father,  the 
Son,  and  the  Holy  Ghost. 

Note :  three  persons  of  one  substance,  having  no  body. 

We  have  considered  the  need  the  world  had  for  the  re-discovery 
of  God  by  Joseph  Smith.  At  that  time,  the  Gospel  was  about  to  be 
restored  in  fulfilment  of  the  Scriptures.  Joseph  Smith  was  raised 
up  to  be  the  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  its  accomplishment ; 
and  it  was  necessary  that  he  have  a  correct  understanding  as  to  the 
personality  of  God,  that  he  might  be  orthodox  in  his  teachings  pertaining 
to  the  Godhead,  and  that  his  faith  and  knowledge  might  sustain  him 
in  meeting  the  false  ideas  and  teachings  so  prevalent  at  that  time,  and 
that  he  might  be  able  to  endure  the  trials  and  persecutions  he  would  have 
to  meet,  for  the  Gospel's  sake. 

FULNESS  OF  GOSPEL  REVEALED 

This  wonderful  revelation  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  was  followed 
by  the  visitation  of  other  heavenly  beings — delivering  to  Joseph  messages 
pertaining  to  the  Gospel  and  the  Church,  and  the  keys  of  former  dis- 
pensations, necessary  in  the  accomplishment  of  his  divinely  appointed 
mission,  with  priesthood  and  authority  from  God  to  administer  all  the 
ordinances  pertaining  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Many  revelations  were  given  to  Joseph  for  his  guidance  in  the 
restoration  of  the  Gospel  and  the  establishment  of  the  Church  and 
kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth  and  for  the  guidance  of  the  members 
of  the  Church. 

FIRST  PRINCIPLES  OF  THE  GOSPEL 

The  fourth  Article  of  our  Faith  reads  as  follows : 

We  believe  that  the  first  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are  : 
first,  Faith  in  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ;  second,  Repentance;  third,  Baptism 
by  immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth,  Laying  on  of  hands  for 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


51 


There  are  other  principles  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  the  ac- 
ceptance of  which  is  necessary  to  man's  salvation.  In  the  preaching 
of  the  Gospel  we  undertake  to  make  plain  all  the  conditions  on  which 
salvation  is  predicated,  and  to  prove  our  position  from  the  Scriptures. 
We  have  given  some  time  to  the  consideration  of  the  subject  of  faith 
as  the  first  article  of  our  religion.  The  subject  of  repentance  follows 
faith  in  logical  sequence,  and  is  one  of  the  most  comforting  of  all  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel.  By  repentance  our  sins,  though  they  may 
have  been  as  scarlet,  may  be  washed  white  as  wool,  through  the  blood  of 
the  Lamb  of  God. 

Such  are  the  teachings  of  the  Scripture. 

The  third  Article  of  our  Faith  reads  as  follows : 

We  believe  that  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  all  mankind  may  be 
saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

All  the  principles,  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are  made 
effective  for  man's  salvation  through  the  atonement  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Repentance  means  a  forsaking  of  all  evil  and  the  doing  of  good. 

Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest. 

Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me ;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly 
in  heart ;  and  ye  shall  find  rest  unto  your  souls. 

For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light. — Matt.  11 :28-30. 

This  is  a  beautiful  call  to  repentance.  The  burden  of  sin  is  hard 
to  bear. 

Behold,  he  who  has  repented  of  his  sins,  the  same  is  forgiven,  and  I,  the 
Lord,  remember  them  no  more. — Doc.  and  Cov.  58:42. 

For,  behold,  I,  God,  have  suffered  these  things  for  all,  that  they  might 
not  suffer  if  they  would  repent; 

But  if  they  would  not  repent,  they  must  suffer  even  as  I,  

which  suffering  caused  myself,  even  God,  the  greatest  of  all,  to  tremble 
because  of  pain,  and  to  bleed  at  every  pore,  and  to  suffer  both  body  and 
spirit— and  would  that  I  might  not  drink  the  bitter  cup,  and  shrink. 

Nevertheless,  glory  be  to  the  Father,  and  I  partook  and  finished  my 
preparations  unto  the  children  of  men. 

Wherefore,  I  command  you  again  to  repent,  lest  I  humble  you  with 
my  almighty  power;  and  that  you  confess  your  sins,  lest  you  suffer  these 
punishments  of  which  I  have  spoken. — Doc.  and  Cov.  19:16-20. 

Baptism  naturally  follows  repentance,  for  baptism  by  immersion 
by  one  having  authority  is  for  the  fulfilment  of  the  law,  for  entrance 
into  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  and  for  the  remission  of  sins, 
which  have  been  repented  of. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  Pentecost  at  Jerusalem,  under  the  influence 
of  the  Holy  Spirit,  those  of  many  nationalities  were  convinced  that 
Jesus  Christ,  who  had  been  crucified,  was  what  he  claimed  to  be,  the 
Son  of  God  and  the  Savior  of  the  world.  Faith  had  found  place  in 
their  souls,  and  they  said  unto  Peter,  and  to  the  rest  of  the  Apostles, 
"Men  and  brethren,  what  shall  we  do?"  (Acts  2:37) 

"Then  Peter  said  unto  them,  Repent,  and  be  baptized  every  one  of 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost."  (Acts  2 :38) 

In  this  declaration  of  Peter's,  we  have  taught  us  in  logical  sequence, 
the  principles  of  Faith,  Repentance,  Baptism  and  the  bestowal  of  the 
Holy  Ghost. 

The  Holy  Ghost  is  conferred  by  the  laying  on  of  hands  of  those 
having  authority,  and  upon  those  who  have  met  the  prescribed  conditions, 
and  are  worthy.  The  Holy  Ghost  will  not  dwell  in  unholy  tabernacles. 
But  when  a  man  has  repented  of  his  sins  and  has  had  them  washed 
away  in  baptism,  he  is  without  sin  and  worthy  to  receive  the  Holy  Ghost 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands.  It  is  the  mission  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  bear 
record  of  the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  of  the  truth  of  all  things.  By 
the  Holy  Ghost  we  may  know  the  Father  and  the  Son,  whom  to  know 
is  life  eternal. 

The  Apostle  Paul  mentions  these  principles  and  ordinances  in  his 
epistles  to  the  Hebrews,  as  follows  : 

Therefore,  leaving  the  principles  of  the  doctrine  of  Christ,  let  us  go  on 
unto  perfection;  not  laying  again  the  foundation  of  repentance  from  dead 
works,  and  of  faith  towards  God,  of  the  doctrine  of  baptisms  and  of  laying 
on  of  hands,  and  of  resurrection  of  the  dead,  and  of  eternal  judgment. — 
Heb.  6:1,  2. 

The  Bible  Commentary  by  Matthew  Henry  has  this  to  say  with 
respect  to  the  above  quotation : 

These  are  the  greatest  foundation  principles,  which  ministers  should 
clearly  and  convincingly  unfold  and  clearly  apply.  In  these  the  people 
should  be  well  instructed  and  established,  and  from  thes_e  they  must  never 
depart ;  without  these,  the  other  parts  of  religion  have  no  foundation  to 
support  them. 

GOING  ON  TO  PERFECTION 

The  Apostle  Paul  says,  "Let  us  go  on  to  perfection." 
We  read  from  Peter: 

Giving  all  diligence,  add  to  your  faith  virtue ;  and  to  virtue  knowledge ; 
and  to  knowledge  temperance;  and  to  temperance  patience;  and  to  patience 
godliness ;  and  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness ;  and  to  brotherly  kindness 
charity.— II  Peter  1 :5-7. 

The  thirteenth  Article  of  our  Faith  reads : 

We  believe  in  being  honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in 
doing  good  to  all  men;  indeed,  we  may  say  that  we  follow  the  admonition 
of  Paul — 'We  believe  all  things,  we  hope  all  things,  we  have  endured  many 
things,  and  hope  to  be  able  to  endure  all  things.  If  there  is  anything 
virtuous,  lovely,  or  of  good  report  or  praiseworthy,  we  seek  after  these 
things. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  do  know  that  the  work  in  which  we 
as  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  the 
plan  and  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


53 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  always  have  more  speakers  than  we  have  time  in  which  to  hear 
them.  A  request  was  made  yesterday,  and  I  renew  it,  that  when  our 
good  brethren  from  the  mission  fields  speak  to  us  they  occupy  not  to 
exceed  ten  minutes. 

ELDER  JAMES  M.  KIRKHAM 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  appreciate  the  opportunity  given  me  to  report  to  you  in  repre- 
senting the  East  Central  States  Mission.  My  heart  is  filled  with  gratitude 
for  the  honor  and  the  privilege  that  have  been  given  me  to  labor  in  that 
field  in  preaching  the  Gospel. 

One  of  the  recent  outstanding  events  happening  in  our  mission  was 
the  visit  of  Elder  Melvin  J.  Ballard  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve.  He 
came  just  at  a  time  when  our  missionaries  were  going  into  the  country 
for  their  summer  work,  as  we  call  it.  His  instructions  and  helpful 
suggestions  were  an  inspiration  to  them.  He  promised  them  that  if  they 
would  do  certain  righteous  things,  they  would  be  blessed  in  many  ways. 
I  want  to  bear  testimony  in  evidence  to  you  that  the  promises  that  were 
made  by  him,  a  servant  of  God,  to  those  young  men  and  women,  have 
been  absolutely  fulfilled. 

While  listening  to  about  fifteen  of  them  bear  their  testimonies  just 
previous  to  coming  to  this  gathering  I  was  thrilled  with  the  testimonies 
which  they  had,  how  the  Lord  had  blessed  them,  and  how  he  had  been 
near  to  them.  It  came  about,  brethren  and  sisters,  because  those  young 
people  had  humbled  themselves  before  our  Heavenly  Father  through 
prayer  and  humility.  The  suggestion  was  made  that  they  go  into  the 
country  without  purse  or  scrip,  and  they  did  it.  A  greater  part  of  our 
missionaries  labored  that  way  this  summer,  some  of  them  going  for  a 
month,  not  spending  five  cents ;  they  left  their  money  at  home,  and  the 
result  was  that  they  depended  upon  the  Lord.  That  experience  was  rich 
to  them  because  of  the  blessings  which  they  received.  They  found  the 
Lord  and  he  blessed  and  never  failed  them  at  any  time. 

We  are  having  an  unusual  experience  in  our  mission,  by  being 
asked  to  preach  the  funeral  services  of  a  great  many  people,  several  of 
them  non-members  of  the  Church.  Two  hundred,  four  hundred,  five 
hundred,  and  as  many  as  a  thousand  people  have  attended  these  meetings. 
The  sentiment  towards  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  changing  wonderfully 
in  that  mission.  You  realize  that  years  ago  prejudice  was  very  strong 
against  us  at  times,  but  that  sentiment  has  greatly  changed.  To  illustrate  : 
In  the  city  of  Goldsboro,  North  Carolina,  where  a  few  years  ago  we  were 
not  able  to  rent  a  hall,  the  great  auditorium  in  the  court  house  in  that 
city  was  turned  over  to  us  when  Brother  Ballard  was  there,  with  an 
attendance  of  four  or  five  hundred  people.  The  change  is  so  wonderful 
that  we  could  use,  I  am  conservative  in  saying,  double  the  number  of 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


missionaries  we  have  in  that  field  today,  because  of  the  opportunities 
we  have.  Not  only  are  we  finding  places,  but  many  people  are  writing 
and  asking  us,  "Can't  you  send  missionaries  into  this  locality ;  we  would 
like  to  help  you?"  That  request  is  not  confined  to  members  alone,  but 
non-members  are  offering  suggestions  such  as  this. 

I  have  learned,  and  it  has  been  emphasized  to  me  this  summer, 
possibly  more  than  any  time  else  in  my  life,  that  if  I  want  the  blessings 
of  my  Heavenly  Father  I  must  live  for  them.  I  must  get  near  to  him, 
and  I  believe  I  can  express  to  you  this  morning  the  sentiment  of  the 
young  men  and  women  who  are  laboring  in  the  field,  that  when  they 
get  close  to  our  Heavenly  Father  and  have  his  Spirit  with  them  it  is 
most  remarkable  what  they  can  accomplish.  We  have  been  able  to  touch 
the  heart  of  stone,  so  to  speak.  Those  who  have  been  against  us  have  in 
turn  blessed  and  helped  us  in  our  work. 

The  work  of  the  Lord  in  our  mission  field  is  progressing.  We  are 
happy.  Young  men  and  women  are  enjoying  good  health  at  this  time, 
and  the  Lord  is  blessing  us  abundantly.  I  plead  with  you  in  all  earnestness 
to  send  your  boys  and  girls  on  missions,  that  they  might  have  the  joy 
and  the  blessings  which  come  from  this  service. 

A  mission  is  two  fold,  it  works  both  at  home  and  in  the  mission 
field.  If  you  have  the  faith,  as  President  Grant  told  us  at  our  last 
conference,  nothing  is  impossible.  What  we  need  is  greater  faith,  and 
if  you  have  that  I  promise  you  that  the  Lord  will  bless  you  and  open  up 
the  way  so  that  you  can  send  your  sons  and  daughters  on  missions.  My 
experience  has  proven  it  to  me.  May  I  be  personal  enough  to  say  to  you 
that  our  eighth  child  is  now  on  a  mission  in  the  Eastern  states.  Recently 
I  said  to  my  wife,  "We  must  send  another  one  of  our  children  on  a 
mission,  so  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us."  My  testimony  to  you  is  that 
when  you  have  the  proper  faith  the  Lord  will  bless  you.  May  we  have 
sufficient  faith  to  help  us  promulgate  the  Gospel. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  say  this :  During  my  lifetime  in  the  field 
of  publicity,  numbering  some  forty  years,  I  do  not  know  of  any 
time  when  the  world  has  watched  and  given  us  so  much  publicity  as  they 
have  regarding  this  Relief  Program,  and  every  day  they  are  checking 
our  progress.  If  we  do  not  make  good  we  shall  have — well,  we  are  not 
going  to  fail — there  is  no  such  thing  as  failure  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  We  cannot  fail  when  the  Lord  is  with  us.  The  Church  Security 
Program  is  going  to  be  one  of  the  outstanding  testimonies  and  evidences 
of  this  work.  I  am  glad  to  belong  to  an  organization  where  the  leadership 
has  the  inspiration  of  God  to  direct  and  help  them,  and  to  help  us  in  all 
our  problems  that  we  have  to  meet.  I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  be  with 
the  leaders  of  the  Church  and  inspire  them  in  the  future  as  he  has  in 
the  past. 

It  is  my  prayer  that  we  may  fulfil  our  part  in  this  great  work,  be- 
cause as  sure  as  I  stand  here  God's  work  is  going  forward,  man  cannot 
stop  it.  May  you  and  I  be  able  to  do  our  part  in  this  great  service,  I 
humbly  pray  in  his  name,  Amen. 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


55 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Central  States  M ission 

I  echo  the  sentiments  of  President  George  F.  Richards  in  his 
opening  remarks  when  he  said  he  was  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  mem- 
bership in  the  Church  and  the  experience  which  came  as  a  result  of  it. 
I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord  that  his  blessings  are  everywhere. 

When  we  leave  this  inspirational  center  and  go  to  our  fields  of 
labor  we  do  not  feel  alone.  I  find  his  blessings  wherever  I  go ;  we  are 
not  alone  in  the  great  cities  nor  in  the  country  places  where  our  people 
gather.  We  feel  that  we  are  in  his  presence  and  that  his  power  is  over 
us. 

In  the  twenty-five  branches  of  the  Central  States  Mission, 
the  fifty-two  Sunday  Schools  and  more  than  a  hundred  corres- 
pondent Sunday  Schools  where  our  people  gather,  the  inspiration 
and  blessing  of  that  Spirit  is  present.  It  is  the  light  that  shines  in  dark- 
ness, as  expressed  in  modern  revelation,  but  the  darkness  comprehendeth 
it  not,  and  even  those  who  sit  in  the  light  only  partially  comprehend 
the  blessings  which  the  Gospel  brings  to  us  and  what  it  means. 

We  have  two  responsibilities  in  every  mission ;  to  look  after  the 
organized  branches  and  the  converted  saints  on  one  hand,  and  to  direct 
the  missionaries  on  the  other.  So  far  as  we  possibly  can  we  try  to 
keep  the  two  separate ;  that  is  to  say,  allowing  the  saints  and  the  local 
people  to  look  after  their  own  local  organizations,  get  their  own  ex- 
periences and  make  their  own  development,  and  not  lean  on  the  mis- 
sionaries. On  the  other  hand  to  have  the  missionaries  as  free  as  possible 
to  spend  their  time  seeking  out  the  honest  in  heart.  It  is  not  always 
possible  to  do  this,  because  the  missionaries  at  times  must  help  the  or- 
ganizations. We  try  however  to  take  the  attitude  that  when  a  man 
presides  over  a  branch  he  presides  over  the  branch,  and  the  Elders  who 
go  into  the  branch  go  to  him  and  say,  ''President,  if  we  can  assist  you 
in  any  way  we  are  glad  to  do  so."  In  a  district  where  there  are  no 
organizations  the  Elders  have  the  responsibility  of  taking  charge. 

To  find  the  honest  in  heart  we  pray  and  ask  the  Lord  to  guide 
us  and  prepare  their  hearts  to  receive  us,  and  yet  when  the  Elders  start 
out  in  the  morning  in  the  great  cities  or  even  in  the  country  they  hardly 
know  which  way  to  go.  But  it  does  seem  that  the  Lord  leads  us  many 
times  to  the  very  homes  where  he  wants  us  to  go.  I  frequently  wonder 
how  many  homes  there  are  that  the  Lord  has  prepared  for  us  that  we 
do  not  find,  or  how  near  we  live  to  him  so  that  we  may  obtain  the 
revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost  to  guide  us  to  these  homes.  I  have  no 
idea  how  far  we  fail  in  that  respect. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  the  mission  progresses  and  the  branches 
grow  in  efficiency,  particularly  in  the  past  year  have  I  been  able  to 
note  a  vast  increase  in  the  interest  in  the  genealogical  department  of  the 
Church  and  temple  work.  Many  people  are  now  beginning  to  think 
about  the  genealogy  of  their  fathers  and  we  have  organized  junior 
genealogical  societies  with  a  degree  of  success  that  has  been  very  satis- 


56 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


factory.  One  young  Elder  travels  through  the  mission  promoting  gene- 
alogy work.  He  usually  stays  about  two  weeks  in  a  branch  and  shows 
them  as  nearly  as  he  can  how  they  should  proceed  to  improve  their 
work.    He  also  spends  the  rest  of  the  time  in  regular  missionary  work. 

Another  delightful  thing  is  the  development  of  the  missionary. 
A  man  came  to  me  yesterday  who  could  hardly  speak  for  the  emotion 
which  swelled  in  his  heart.  He  said:  "My  boy  is  home  again.  I  want 
to  thank  you  for  what  you  have  done  for  him.  He  is  not  the  same  boy 
that  went  away  at  all." 

I  said  to  him:  "My  dear  sir,  it  was  the  Lord  and  himself  who 
did  it.  He  submitted  himself  to  the  will  of  God  and  lived  in  the  presence 
and  power  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  and  he  comes  back  sanctified,  strengthened 
and  made  a  strong  character." 

We  are  just  trying  to  do  our  duty,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the 
Central  States  Mission.  We  use  our  efforts  to  the  best  of  our  ability 
and  we  find  that  the  Lord  blesses  us  and  opens  the  way  for  us.  Radio 
programs  are  open  for  us  as  far  as  we  can  fill  them.  Newspapers 
give  us  notices,  people  listen  to  our  testimony  wherever  we  go.  We  try 
to  sing  the  Gospel  and  preach  the  Gospel,  and  put  literature  in  the  hands 
of  the  people.  Your  sons  and  daughters  who  are  with  us  are  performing 
splendidly.  You  can  be  very  happy  about  them.  At  the  present  time 
we  have  only  one  case  of  serious  sickness  in  the  mission.  We  hope 
the  Lord  will  preserve  us  from  further  serious  sickness. 

May  he  bless  his  servants  who  preside  over  this  Church,  that  we 
may  continue  to  enjoy  their  inspired  leadership  and  your  faith  and 
prayers,  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 

President  of  the  Western  States  M ission 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  bring  you  a  report 
from  the  Western  States  Mission.  We  have  there  82  Elders  and  lady 
missionaries  at  the  present  time,  all  of  whom  are  very  well.  We  have 
had  some  very  unusual  things  transpire,  unusual  healings,  unusual  con- 
versions, and  particularly  have  I  been  impressed  with  the  fine  quality 
of  good  people  who  have  recently  come  into  the  Church.  We  have  had 
several  conversions  of  friends  from  the  Reorganized  Church,  and  they 
are  becoming  a  great  power  in  our  branches. 

The  Security  project  has  met  with  great  approval,  and  our  people 
have  been  very  desirous  of  doing  their  full  duty.  When  the  Church 
conceived  the  idea  of  asking  each  of  the  members  to  contribute  as  a 
Fast  offering  one  dollar  per  capita,  many  of  our  Saints,  some  of  them 
in  remote  places,  desirous  of  doing  their  part  have  done  it  wonderfully. 
One  man  sent  a  check  for  forty-eight  dollars  to  us,  asking  that  we  credit 
him  and  his  family  four  years  in  advance  with  Fast  offerings. 

Our  tithes  show  a  very  good  increase,  likewise  our  Fast  offerings. 
We  have  had  a  number  of  wonderful  missionaries  go  out  into  the  field 


ELDER  JOSEPH  J.  DAYNES 


57 


from  our  mission.  We  have  nine  out  now,  and  three  others  who  will 
soon  be  in  the  field,  making  twelve  from  our  mission  who  are  spending 
their  time  in  other  missions  of  the  Church. 

The  meeting  to  which  President  Grant  referred,  which  was  held 
in  Estes  Park,  August  8th,  being  the  convention  of  the  Institute  of 
Human  Relations,  was  a  privilege  of  unusual  importance  given  this 
Church.  I  have  heard  President  Grant  give  many  marvelous  addresses, 
but  I  think  the  one  given  there,  in  which  he  gave  historical  and  doctrinal 
phases  of  Mormonism,  is  perhaps  his  outstanding  address.  He  covered 
almost  everything  historical  and  likewise  doctrinal  that  the  Church 
presents  to  the  world.  Many  wonderful  reactions  in  the  nature  of  com- 
plimentary praise  regarding  his  address  have  come  from  those  who 
were  present. 

Perhaps  the  outstanding  thing  that  has  occurred  within  our  mission 
was  the  dedication  of  the  Winter  Quarters  monument,  which  took  place 
on  the  20th  of  September,  a  week  ago  last  Sunday.  There  were  three 
thousand  people  at  the  dedication  services  proper,  and  there  were  fifteen 
thousand  people  who  came  onto  the  hill  during  the  day,  and  there  have 
been  literally  hundreds  of  people  there  every  day  since.  In  a  letter 
received  from  one  of  our  lady  missionaries,  she  said:  (she  had  been 
appointed  to  be  there  that  day)  "There  were  150  people  came  on  the 
hill  to  ask  questions  concerning  the  monument  and  what  it  stands  for." 

We  have  had  a  wonderful  response  from  the  officials  of  the  city 
administration  in  their  endeavor  to  give  us  that  which  we  needed.  I 
want  to  quote  you  just  a  few  words  from  the  remarks  of  Mayor  Butler, 
given  at  the  time  of  the  dedication : 

In  meeting  here  to  dedicate  this  memorial  we  are  but  acknowledging 
the  debt  we  owe  to  the  devoted  men  and  women  who  gave  their  lives  to  the 
uplifting  of  this  great  western  country. 

We  are  all  inclined,  except  at  moments  such  as  this,  to  forget  how 
deeply  we  are  indebted  to  the  men  and  women  who  crossed  the  plains  in 
the  days  when  it  required  sublime  faith  and  undaunted  courage  to  face 
the  dangers  and  the  privations  of  the  long  journey. 

$       *  $ !       #  * 

We  are  here,  however,  to  do  honor  to  those  who  did  not  reach  the 
goal,  to  those  that  sacrificed  their  lives  that  others  might  go  forward. 

We  would  be  ingrates  indeed  were  we  not  to  commemorate  the  heroism 
of  these  men  and  women  in  some  lasting  memorial  such  as  this. 

As  the  mayor  of  the  city  of  Omaha  I  am  happy  to  add  my  word  of 
recognition  of  the  sacrifices  made  by  these  pioneers  and  to  express  on 
behalf  of  the  people  of  Omaha  their  appreciation  of  this  monument  which 
is  to  be  unveiled  here  today. 

Governor  R.  L.  Cochran,  governor  of  the  State  of  Nebraska,  paid  a 
very  beautiful  tribute,  and  I  quote  a  few  words  from  his  remarks : 

No  other  events  of  human  history  are  more  soul-stirring  than  the 
chronicles  of  the  struggles  for  the  freedom  of  conscience.  No  battles 
ever  fought  have  shown  a  higher  courage  than  that  manifested  by  a 
determined  people  in  a  peaceful  exodus  from  the  scenes  and  conditions 
of  religious  persecution.  America  was  colonized  by  the  refugees  from 
religious  intolerance  in  other  lands,  by  men  and  women  of  conviction 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

who  preferred  self  exile  rather  than  suffer  regimentation  in  the  manner 
of  their  worship  of  God. 

A  century  ago  there  was  gathering  on  a  peaceful,  fertile  Illinois 
prairie  the  nucleus  of  a  colony  of  God-fearing  people  who  sought  to 
rear  their  children  in  their  own  particular  faith. 

After  a  few  pathetic  years  of  resistance,  during  which  time  the  leader, 
Joseph  Smith,  was  killed,  the  colony  decided  to  move  far  westward  to 
establish  new  homes  beycnd  the  Rocky  Mountains. 

s|e     $     $'    -fc*  ♦ :     afc  $ 

This  ceremony  today  is  in  proper  keeping  with  the  respect  due  to  those 
purposeful  pioneers  who  were  first  to  leave  their  impress  on  the  Christian 
civilization  of  the  great  plains. 

s£     $     ♦ '   .ft     sfe    *  *    ■"  £fa 

And  so,  down  through  the  mist  of  the  passing  years  the  Mormon 
migration  has  become  epochal,  significant  as  an  institution  having  an 
influence  on  the  social  standards  of  succeeding  generations.  Subsequent 
events  would  seem  to  have  justified  the  losses  suffered,  the  rigors  met  and 
survived.  I  am  humbly  disposed  to  pay  reverent  homage  to  the  high 
purpose  that  inspired  the  heroic  enterprise,  and  to  look  upon  this  field  of 
unmarked  mounds  as  symbolic  of  the  sacrifice  that  life  in  every  scheme 
of  human  endeavor,  demands  as  the  price  for  ultimate  success. 

I  received  a  letter  from  the  secretary  of  the  Chamber  of  Commerce 
of  Omaha  the  day  before  I  left,  and  I  quote  a  few  words  from  him : 

We  of  Omaha  feel  that  this  is  one  of  the  most  inspirational  meetings 
that  has  been  held  here  for  a  long  time,  and  I  am  sure  that  all  of  those 
who  gathered  on  the  hill  above  Florence  left  the  place  better  for  having 
been  there. 

You  may  be  sure  that  we  were  more  than  willing  to  cooperate  with 
your  people  in  this  ceremony,  for  the  leaders  of  your  Church  approached 
this  dedication  with  a  dignity  that  was  truly  inspiring.  The  Church  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  erected  their  own  memorial  to  their  own  dead  but  were 
happy  to  have  others  join  in  the  service.  It  is  a  great  contribution  to  the 
memory  of  those  who  pioneered  the  middle  west. 

I  quote  from  an  editorial  in  one  of  the  Omaha  newspapers  the 
Monday  morning  after  the  dedication : 

Omaha  listened  yesterday  while  Heber  J.  Grant,  president  of  the 
Mormon  Church,  and  other  eloquent  speakers  told  of  the  struggles  and 
triumphs  of  their  faith,  of  its  tragedies  and  blessings,  its  past  and  its 
present,  and  its  hope  for  the  future. 

It  is  a  tale  that  bears  telling.  Suppose  its  origin  does  appear  fantastic 
to  Gentile  unbelievers.  It  is  not  more  so  than  that  of  other  religions 
that  number  adherents  by  hundreds  of  millions.  It  is  worth  while  for  its 
relation  to  humanity's  search  through  the  ages  for  truth. 

Starting  in  New  York,  taking  form  in  Ohio,  coming  to  growth  in 
Missouri,  reaching  strength  in  Illinois,  until  in  Utah  it  mounted  heights 
of  power  and  influence,  the  story  of  the  Mormon  Church  is  fascinating 
as  a  human  document. 

Hardships  endured  at  "Winter  Quarters"  tried  their  souls  and  tested 
their  faith,  but  were  borne  with  resignation.  When  Brigham  Young 
organized  the  march  to  the  region  he  had  located  beyond  the  mountains, 
with  songs  on  their  lips  and  prayers  in  their  hearts,  thousands  followed 
on  to  Utah. 

They  made  the  desert  bloom,  they  established  cities,  with  all  the 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


59 


attributes  of  civilization,  schools,  churches,  factories,  to  utilize  their 
products,  everything  connoted  by  greatness. 

Holding  fast  to  their  faith,  they  bore  the  shock  of  adversity,  of 
ostracism,  patiently  striving  for  the  goal  they  visioned.  One  need  not  be 
a  Mormon,  nor  subscribe  to  any  tenets  of  the  Church,  to  admire  the 
courage,  the  fortitude,  the  industry  of  this  powerful  sect. 

It  is  marvelous  the  response  we  have  had,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 
My  testimony  has  grown  day  by  day  as  I  have  studied  the  reaction  of  the 
people  as  they  have  contemplated  the  purposes  of  our  mission.  Our 
Elders  and  our  lady  missionaries  are  reaching  many  honest,  God-fearing 
people  who  are  receiving  the  message  of  truth.  And  I  testify  to  you 
that  I  know  that  this  Church  is  true,  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  one  and  the  same, 
inseparable  and  indivisible.  As  I  learn  of  it  and  study  it  I  am  more 
convinced  from  day  to  day  of  its  comprehensiveness,  its  beauty  and  its 
glory,  and  in  my  work  I  am  happy  that  I  am  one  who  is  undertaking 
to  promote  its  glorious  truths. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  all,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

The  "Singing  Mothers"  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  Man  Who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  to  express  gratitude  for  my  membership  in  the  Church.  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  communed  with  Jehovah ;  that  the  Lord  spoke 
to  him  and  gave  him  commandment  to  organize  the  Church  and  to 
establish  his  truth  once  again  in  its  fulness  in  the  earth.  I  am  grateful 
for  all  that  has  come  through  that  restoration,  the  knowledge,  the  faith 
and  the  understanding  which  I  have  of  the  Gospel — and  I  say  knowledge, 
because  I  have  that  knowledge. 

ENDORSES  CHURCH  SECURITY  PLAN 

Just  a  word  I  desire  to  say  in  endorsement  of  the  Plan  which  has 
been  spoken  of  at  other  sessions  of  this  conference,  looking  after  the 
interests  of  the  members  of  the  Church.  Some  have  said  that  this  is 
new.  I  look  upon  it  as  a  return  to  that  which  is  old,  which  is  always 
new  when  it  is  true,  for  that  which  is  true  never  becomes  old,  but  it 
is  a  return  to  first  principles.  I  hope  that  it  will  lead  us  in  love,  in  the 
spirit  of  sympathy,  fellowship  and  brotherly  love,  to  have  the  interest 
in  our  feliowmen  that  we  ought  to  have,  and  increase  in  our  hearts  a 
desire  to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  and  walk  in  the  light 
as  we  understand  that  light,  that  we  may  be  constantly  guided  by  his 
Spirit. 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OBSERVATIONS  REGARDING  TOLERANCE  AND  BROADMINDEDNESS 

I  would  like  for  a  few  minutes  to  offer  a  few  observations  in  regard 
to  the  question  of  tolerance  and  broadmindedness.  We  hear  so  much 
in  these  days  about  being  tolerant  and  broadminded.  I  suppose  the 
world  will  never  know  how  many  crimes  have  been  committed  through 
a  misinterpretation  and  misunderstanding  of  these  terms.  Satan  is 
very  "broadminded,"  extremely  so  as  long  as  he  can  get  people  to  do 
evil  and  avoid  the  truth.  He  will  teach  any  kind  of  theory,  or  principle, 
or  doctrine,  if  it  doesn't  conform  to  the  fundamental  things  of  life — the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  is  even  willing  to  teach  some  truth  if  he 
can  join  that  truth  with  error,  and  by  teaching  the  error  with  the  truth 
lead  men  astray.  This  is  how  broadminded  he  is,  and  that  is  how  the 
apostasy  came  about  in  the  primitive  church.  The  Lord  has  given 
to  man  his  agency.  That  is  a  divine  principle — it  is  inherent,  born  with 
us.  We  have  it  because  the  Lord  gave  it  to  us  in  the  spirit  world.  It 
is  the  only  principle  upon  which  exaltation  can  come.  It  is  the  only 
principle  upon  which  rewards  can  be  given  in  righteousness.  Satan's 
plan  in  the  beginning  was  to  compel.  He  said  he  would  save  all  men 
and  not  one  soul  should  be  lost.  Surely  he  would  do  it  if  the  Father 
would  give  him  the  honor  and  the  glory.  But  who  wants  salvation 
when  it  comes  through  compulsion,  if  we  haven't  the  power  within 
ourselves  to  choose  and  to  act  according  to  the  dictates  of  conscience? 
What  would  salvation  mean  to  you  if  you  were  compelled?  And  so,  that 
great  gift  of  agency  has  been  given  to  men.  By  it  we  may  climb  to  the 
heights,  we  may  enter  the  kingdom  of  God  to  sit  on  the  throne  and  be 
exalted  as  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  but  we  must  be  obedient. 

Tolerance  is  not  indulgence.  I  think  sometimes  the  terms  have 
been  confused.  We  must  not  get  so  broadminded  that  we  would  throw 
over  the  fundamental  things  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  heard  of 
one  man — and  I  think  he  filled  a  mission — who  made  the  statement,  as 
the  report  comes  to  me,  that  in  this  enlightened  age  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  should  get  away  from  the  narrow  idea  that  baptism  for  the 
remission  of  sins  in  water  is  essential  to  salvation ;  that  we  should  be 
broader  than  that. 

AN  ANTHROPOMORPHIC  GOD 

Another  man,  with  similar  views,  made  the  statement,  so  the  report 
comes  to  me,  that  we  shall  have  to  cease  believing  in  the  anthropomorphic 
God ;  we  must  quit  thinking  of  God  as  being  in  the  form  in  which  man 
is  made.  He  ridiculed  the  idea  by  saying,  "Can  we  worship  a  God  who 
has  to  eat,  who  has  to  sleep,  who  has  to  take  a  bath?"  Of  course,  in 
thinking  of  God  as  a  person,  in  whose  image  we  are  created,  we  do  not 
necessarily  have  to  think  of  him  as  having  to  conform  to  all  the  conditions 
of  mortal  existence  to  which  we,  under  present  conditions,  are  forced 
to  subscribe.  But  is  there  anything  wrong  in  thinking  of  a  God  who 
eats  ?  He  did  eat  and  has  promised  to  eat  again.  What  is  wrong  in  it  ? 
He  bathes,  at  least  in  fire,  so  he  tells  us.   We  are  his  ofT-spring,  and  he 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


61 


has  given  us  commandments  to  serve  him  in  the  name  of  his  only 
Begotten  Son  as  sons  and  daughters  unto  God. 

BOUND  BY  LAW 

Moreover,  we  know,  because  it  has  been  revealed,  that  all  kingdoms 
have  a  law  given,  and  that  includes  the  kingdom  of  God.  It  is  not  some- 
thing that  stands  apart  from  all  other  kingdoms  in  this  regard,  and  he 
himself  has  said:  "Unto  every  kingdom  is  given  a  law;  and  unto  every 
law  there  are  certain  bounds  also  and  conditions.  All  beings  who  abide 
not  in  those  conditions  are  not  justified." 

The  Lord  is  very  tolerant,  yet  he  declares  that  we  are  bound  by 
law,  and  if  we  violate  the  law  we  are  not  justified,  and  must  remain 
filthy  still.  You  might  just  as  well  try  to  destroy  the  law  of  gravity,  or 
say  it  is  useless,  that  it  has  filled  its  purpose  and  is  worn  out,  as  to  say 
that  baptism  is  not  essential  to  salvation.  I  believe  in  being  tolerant, 
but  I  believe  that  that  tolerance  will  teach  me  to  observe  and  keep  the 
law  and  constantly  abide  in  it,  and  not  to  make  excuses  for  my  wrong 
doing  by  saying  I  am  broadminded. 

EVERY  MAN'S  PRIVILEGE 

"We  claim  the  privilege  of  worshipping  Almighty  God  according 
to  the  dictates  of  our  conscience,  and  allow  all  men  the  same  privilege, 
let  them  worship  how,  where,  or  what  they  may." 

I  am  willing  to  defend  any  man  in  the  privilege  which  is  his  by  his 
agency.  If  he  wants  to  worship  a  cat,  or  a  dog,  the  sun,  or  the  moon,  a 
crocodile,  or  a  bull — and  men  have  done  all  these  things — that  is  his 
privilege.  But  it  is  also  my  privilege  and  right  to  try  to  teach  him  to  do 
better  and  to  accept  a  better  worship.  I  will  defend  him  in  his  rights, 
and  at  the  same  time  endeavor  to  teach  him  that  he  may  see  more  clearly 
and  walk  in  the  light  of  truth. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  once  said:  "The  Saints  can  testify 
whether  I  am  willing  to  lay  down  my  life  for  my  brethren.  If  it  has 
been  demonstrated  that  I  have  been  willing  to  die  for  a  Mormon,  I  am 
able  to  declare  before  Heaven  that  I  am  just  as  ready  to  die  in  defense 
of  the  rights  of  a  Presbyterian,  a  Baptist,  or  a  good  man  in  any  other 
denomination,  for  the  same  principle  that  would  trample  upon  the  rights 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  trample  upon  the  rights  of  the  Roman 
Catholics  or  upon  any  other  denominations  that  may  be  unpopular  and  too 
weak  to  defend  themselves." 

ONLY  THROUGH  COMPLIANCE  WITH  FUNDAMENTAL  TRUTHS 

I  believe  in  that  doctrine.  At  the  same  time  I  am  satisfied  and  I 
know  that  the  kingdom  of  God  is  governed  by  a  definite,  fixed  law,  that 
cannot  be  controverted.  We  cannot  change  it  because  we  perhaps  become 
modern  and  say  we  are  broadminded,  as  some  people  understand  broad- 
mindedness  and  tolerance  to  be.    It  doesn't  change  the  fact  in  the 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

least  that  if  we  would  receive  the  kingdom  of  God  and  enter  into  its 
exaltation,  we  must  comply  with  the  fundamental  truths,  the  laws  upon 
which  that  kingdom  is  established.  We  have  them,  we  are  the  advocates 
of  these  principles,  they  are  in  our  keeping.  Why,  bless  your  soul,  the 
whole  world  ought  to  come  to  us  with  songs  of  everlasting  joy,  singing 
their  hosannas  to  embrace  the  truth ;  but  I  wonder  sometimes  if  we  do 
not  stress  a  little  too  much  the  fact  that  they  today  are  receiving  us  in 
kindness.  Let  us  not  pat  ourselves  upon  the  back  too  much  because  we 
have  little  opposition.  I  see  a  danger  in  it;  but  let  us  go  on  keeping 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in  humility  and  truth,  and  teaching  the 
people  the  correct  principles,  drawing  them  to  us  by  our  lives  as  well 
as  by  our  precepts.   And  so  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  JAMES  M.  PETERSON 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  new  oppor- 
tunity which  has  come  to  me  to  go  into  the  mission  field  once  more. 
I  am  happy  to  report  our  work  in  the  Texas  Mission  I  bring  to  you 
the  greetings  of  our  saints  in  Texas  and  Louisiana,  as  well  as  from 
the  missionaries  laboring  there. 

To  the  parents  of  the  missionaries  I  am  happy  to  report  that  they 
are  well.  During  the  past  year  we  have  enjoyed  splendid  health,  and 
the  blessings  of  the  Lord  have  been  with  us.  We  have  an  exceptionally 
fine  group  of  missionaries.  The  parents  of  these  fine  young  people 
can  well  be  proud  of  them.  I  am  sure  that  they  will  bring  honor  to 
you  and  to  the  Church,  and  to  the  community  when  they  return  to  their 
homes. 

Much  of  the  old  prejudice  and  antagonism  has  disappeared,  but 
there  are  still  many  things  to  dishearten  and  discourage  the  missionaries. 
They  need  your  support.  When  you  write  to  them  write  only  encourag- 
ing things,  and  avoid  anything  that  may  tend  to  discourage  them  in  their 
work. 

This  year  Texas  is  celebrating  the  one  hundredth  anniversary  of 
her  freedom.  At  Dallas  a  fine  exposition  has  been  built.  Millions  of 
dollars  have  been  spent  in  the  erecting  of  buildings  and  places  of  amuse- 
ment. We  are  fortunate  in  having  a  booth  in  the  Exposition,  manned 
by  our  Elders  who  labor  there.  Thousands  of  people  stop  to  see  the 
pictures  of  our  various  temples  and  to  hear  the  discourses  of  these  fine 
young  men.  The  Gospel  message,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  is  finding 
its  way  into  the  homes  of  both  the  great  and  the  small.  The  advancement 
and  growth  of  the  Church,  and  the  publicity  which  has  recently  come 
to  it  through  our  relief  program  and  the  addresses  of  President  Grant 
abroad,  as  well  as  other  favorable  publicity,  have  opened  many  a  door 
to  our  missionaries. 

Due  credit  must  be  given  to  our  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  Organ 
for  the  splendid  broadcasts  coming  from  this  famous  old  building. 


ELDER  JAMES  M.  PETERSON 


63 


I  think  I  am  safe  in  saying  that  our  most  direct  contacts  come  from 
these  broadcasts  and  the  favorable  expressions  which  we  hear  with 
reference  to  them. 

We  are  happy  in  bearing  testimony  of  the  revealed  Gospel,  knowing 
that  as  we  are  instrumental  in  bringing  people  to  a  knowledge  of  the 
truth  we  are  more  firmly  establishing  ourselves  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Some  years  ago  there  came  to  our  house  quite  frequently  a  dear 
little  old  lady.  She  often  stayed  with  us  four  or  five  days  at  a  time. 
At  the  dinner  table  we  would  discuss  the  topics  of  the  day,  the  disasters, 
the  storms,  the  drouth,  the  difficulties  of  the  business  world,  and 
invariably  when  we  had  finished  she  would  place  her  hand  on  my  arm 
and  say:  "Never  mind.  Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his 
righteousness ;  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

It  is  strange — possibly  it  is  not  strange — how  our  experiences  affect 
our  view-point.  For  instance,  I  was  looking  casually  through  a  maga- 
zine and  came  upon  a  couple  of  verses  which  told  of  early  pleasant 
experiences  and  the  failure  that  followed  an  attempt  to  find  the  old 
pleasures  in  the  doing  of  those  same  things.  It  was  beautifully  written 
and  touched  me.  I  read  it  to  my  wife  and  she  shared  my  appreciation 
of  it.  Then  at  the  dinner  table  with  a  group  of  young  people  I  prof- 
fered to  read  it.  I  put  into  it  all  the  pathos  of  which  I  was  capable. 
When  I  finished  some  of  them  laughed,  and  others,  more  respectful, 
smiled  and  wondered  why  my  eyes  were  filled  with  tears.  So  it  was 
when  this  dear  little  old  lady  continued  to  repeat  those  beautiful  words : 
"Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness ;  and  all  these 
things  shall  be  added  unto  you."  I  only  smiled  and  thought  of  it  as 
another  Bible  quotation. 

With  the  passing  of  the  years  there  has  come  possibly  some  slight 
degree  of  wisdom,  and  with  it  the  experiences  that  enable  one  to  see 
more  clearly.  But  not  until  I  had  seen  the  world  turned  upside  down, 
so  to  speak ;  not  until  I  had  seen  gigantic  financial  institutions  topple 
as  a  house  of  cards;  not  until  I  had  seen  the  fruits  of  a  lifetime  of 
labor  and  sacrifice  and  hardship  swept  away  as  with  a  puff  of  wind ; 
not  until  I  had  seen  men  go  down  to  work  in  the  morning  hopeful  and 
full  of  enthusiasm,  and  then  saw  them  standing  at  night,  heartbroken 
and  penniless,  did  I  come  to  realize,  in  a  degree,  the  meaning  of  those 
precious  words. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  are  we  seeking  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  his  righteousness?  Are  we  giving  ourselves  freely  and  willingly 
to  his  service?  A  missionary  told  me  this  story  of  his  sister  who  had 
written  him  from  home  for  advice.  A  young  man  had  come  to  pay 
his  attentions.  He  was  tall  and  handsome  as  young  lovers  go;  she 
was  young,  vivacious  and  liked  him.  Came  the  end  of  the  week,  and 
he  proposed  a  trip  into  the  mountains  for  the  Sabbath.  She  hesitated 
and  then  quickly  remembered  that  she  was  a  Sunday  School  teacher, 
and  that  her  class  of  little  ones  would  be  waiting  for  her  on  the  morrow. 
So  he  went  with  others  into  the  mountains  and  left  her  with  her  Sunday 
School.   Came  the  end  of  another  week,  and  the  renewal  of  the  proposal 


64 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


that  they  spend  Sunday  in  the  mountains.  Now  she  had  had  time  to 
think  it  over  and  was  ready  with  an  answer.  She  told  him  that  the 
Sabbath  was  a  very  sacred  day  to  her ;  that  she  had  been  taught  from 
childhood  to  remember  to  keep  it  holy,  and  that  she  could  not  be  induced 
to  break  it  however  tempting  the  invitation.  The  next  morning  as  she 
was  leaving  her  home  for  Sunday  School  a  large  automobile  drove  up 
to  the  house  and  in  it  were  the  aforesaid  young  man  and  a  group  of  young 
people.  With  all  the  enthusiasm  of  which  young  people  are  capable 
they  urged  her  to  accompany  them  and  all  but  lifted  her  into  the  car. 
I  do  not  know  the  workings  of  her  mind ;  I  do  not  know  the  vision  that 
held  her  to  the  right.  I  am  inclined  to  the  belief  that  she  knew  nothing 
of  these  sacred  words  of  the  Master,  but  somewhere  in  her  mind  was 
the  essence  of  that  commandment:  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness ;  and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

True  to  the  teachings  of  a  fine  Latter-day  Saint  home  she  has 
found  the  way  to  the  kingdom  of  God.  And  so  may  we  and  all  who 
seek  him  and  strive  to  keep  his  commandments.  But  let  us  not  suppose 
that  we  may  find  it  by  a  mediocre  or  haphazard  living  of  the  Gospel ; 
but  rather  let  us  dedicate  ourselves,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  the  service 
of  the  Master,  and  in  remembrance  of  his  suffering  and  sacrifice  for 
us  devote  ourselves  to  the  keeping  of  the  commandments  which  he  has 
given  us,  that  we  may  come  to  know  the  beauties  of  his  kingdom  and 
the  joy  of  his  eternal  progress,  I  pray  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  pray  that  what  I  say  this  morning  may  be  dictated  by  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord. 

An  ancient  American  prophet  whose  name  was  Moroni  once  wrote : 

And  now  I  speak  unto  all  the  ends  of  the  earth — that  if  the  day  cometh 
that  the  power  and  gifts  of  God  shall  be  done  away  among  you,  it  shall 
be  because  of  unbelief. 

£  '  ,  +  )    if' '  •  $  ,  £ 

Awake,  and  arise  from  the  dust,  O  Jerusalem ;  yea,  and  put  on  thy 
beautiful  garments,  O  daughter  of  Zion;  and  strengthen  thy  stakes  and 
enlarge  thy  borders  forever,  that  thou  mayest  no  more  be  confounded, 
that  the  covenants  of  the  Eternal  Father  which  he  hath  made  unto  thee, 
O  house  of  Israel,  may  be  fulfilled. 

James,  a  disciple  of  our  Lord,  says : 

If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  ail  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given  him. 

There  is  something  calamitous  happening  in  the  world  today;  it 
has  slowly  been  destroying  our  spiritual  lives.  I  refer  to  the  fact  that 
human  life  on  the  one  hand  and  religion  on  the  other  have  been  drifting 
apart.    They  are  drifting  apart  today,  and  this  is  one  of  the  greatest 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


65 


calamities  of  all  history.  We  realize  that  the  world  has  made  wonderful 
strides  in  science  and  invention  during  the  past  century.  From  a  material 
standpoint  no  one  doubts  the  greatness  of  the  age  in  which  we  are  living. 
Electricity  and  mechanical  inventions  have  changed  our  economic  and 
social  lives.  Magnificent  have  been  the  achievements  of  men ;  still  more 
splendid  will  they  be.  The  nations  of  the  world  have  accumulated  great 
wealth  but  the  love  of  money  has  pushed  aside  their  love  of  God.  The 
conscience  of  Christian  creeds  has  become  blunt  to  the  primary  dis- 
tinctions of  right  and  wrong  and  the  world  is  drifting  to  some  ignominious 
end. 

When  we  look  back  to  a  century  ago,  we  see  here  in  America,  a 
people  strong  in  honesty  and  fortitude,  subduing  nature  and  building 
homes  and  cities.  They  traveled  in  small  boats,  ox-carts,  and  horse  drawn 
wagons.  The  farmer  was  using  the  type  of  tools  that  resembled  those 
that  were  used  in  the  days  of  the  ancient  prophets.  It  took  from  May 
to  early  autumn  to  travel  from  the  Atlantic  to  the  Pacific  ocean.  There 
were  no  railroad  trains ;  and  steamboats  were  just  beginning  to  ply  the 
rivers  of  the  West.  Newspapers  were  printed  by  hand  at  the  rate  of 
two  hundred  copies  an  hour.  Thought  was  transmitted  only  as  fast  as 
one  could  travel.  Then  came  the  age  of  machinery.  Inventors  gave 
us  the  telegraph  and  telephone;  modern  farming  machinery,  and  ulti- 
mately the  automobile  and  airplane.  During  the  last  years,  the  science 
of  medicine  has  all  but  conquered  disease.  Space  has  been  annihilated 
by  the  forces  of  travel,  and  the  radio  has  brought  the  voices  of  men  from 
the  far-off  quarters  of  the  earth.  The  age  has  been  one  of  marvelous 
thought  and  progress,  tfielike  of  which  the  world  has  never  seen  before. 

As  a  result  of  this  progress  in  the  line  of  science,  and  the  coming 
of  foreigners  to  our  shores,  our  civilization  has  become  complex.  Law- 
making bodies  have  created  laws  by  the  thousands,  until  we  have  come 
to  believe  that  government  is  the  source  of  righteousness ;  that  govern- 
ment by  external  means  is  the  spring  of  morality  and  spiritual  life.  The 
morale  of  America  has  drifted  to  a  very  low  state ;  this  is  also  true  of 
all  the  civilized  world.  Our  moral  autonomy  has  gone,  and  men  and 
nations  have  forgotten  God.  Satan  is  offering  the  kingdoms  of  the 
world  to  those  who  will  fall  down  and  worship  him.  The  temptation 
of  Jesus  after  his  baptism  has  become  today  the  temptation  of  men.  Yet 
nations  are  crying  for  Peace.  They  have  organized  leagues  of  peace; 
they  have  made  some  determined  efforts  to  do  away  with  war;  they 
have  all  failed  for  the  reason  that  peace  movements  have  not  been 
founded  on  a  proper  comprehension  of  righteousness  and  truth. 

When  our  forefathers  met  in  Carpenter's  Hall  in  Philadelphia  in 
1774  to  draft  some  system  of  government  by  which  the  colonies  could 
carry  on,  an  old  minister,  Dr.  Jacob  Duche,  was  called  in  to  offer  a 
prayer,  and  as  he  prayed,  John  Adams  tells  us  that  tears  "gushed  into 
the  eyes  of  all  present."  It  was  a  fervent  prayer  to  the  Lord  and  I  quote 
it  in  full  for  it  carries  a  message  of  faith  to  us  : 

O  Lord,  our  Heavenly  Father,  high  and  mighty  King  of  Kings,  Lord 


66 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  Lords,  who  dost  from  Thy  throne  behold  all  the  dwellers  upon  the 
earth,  and  reignest  with  power  supreme  and  uncontrolled  over  all  kingdoms, 
empires  and  governments,  look  down  in  mercy,  we  beseech  Thee,  upon 
these  American  States  who  have  fled  to  Thee  from  the  rod  of  the  op- 
pressor, and  thrown  themselves  upon  Thy  gracious  protection,  desiring 
to  be  henceforth  dependent  cnly  upon  Thee. 

To  Thee  have  they  appealed  for  the  righteousness  of  their  cause.  To 
Thee  do  they  now  look  up  for  that  countenance  and  support  which  Thou 
alone  canst  give.  Take  them,  theretore,  Heavenly  father,  under  Thy 
nurturing  care.  Give  them  wisdom  in  council,  and  valor  in  the  field. 
Defeat  the  malicious  designs  of  our  cruel  adversaries.  Convince  them  of 
the  unrighteousness  of  their  cause,  and  if  they  still  persist  in  their  san- 
guinary purposes,  O  let  the  voice  of  Thine  own  unerring  justice,  sounding 
in  their  hearts,  constrain  them  to  drop  their  weapons  of  war  from  their 
unnerved  hands  in  the  day  of  battle. 

Be  Thou  present,  O  Lord  of  Wisdom,  and  direct  the  Council  of  the 
honorable  Assembly.  Enable  them  to  settle  things  upon  the  best  and  surest 
foundation,  that  the  scene  of  blood  may  speedily  be  closed ;  that  order, 
harmony  and  peace  may  effectually  be  restored,  and  truth  and  justice, 
religion  and  piety,  prevail  and  flourish  amongst  Thy  people. 

Preserve  the  health  of  their  bodies,  the  vigor  of  their  minds.  Shower 
down  upon  them  and  the  millions  they  here  represent,  such  temporal  bless- 
ings as  Thou  seest  expedient  for  them  in  this  world  and  crown  them  with 
everlasting  glory  in  the  world  to  ccme.  All  this  we  ask  in  the  name  and 
through  the  merits  of  Jesus  Christ,  Thy  Son,  our  Savior.  Amen. 

When  the  government  of  the  United  States  was  finally  organized 
under  the  God-inspired  Constitution,  it  was  the  result  of  toil  and  blood ; 
and  faith  in  the  providences  of  God.  The  age-long  barriers  of  class 
were  done  away  with,  and  those  founders  declared  that  here  in  this 
nation,  there  should  be  no  slave ;  there  should  be  no  king ;  nor  master ; 
nor  subject.  The  fathers  of  the  republic  said  to  us :  "We  are  all  children 
of  God,  free  and  equal." 

Are  we  going  to  abandon  our  heritage?  Shall  we  "look  unto  the 
rock  whence  we  were  hewn?"  It  was  a  wise  piece  of  advice  when  the 
ancient  psalmist  wrote :  "Remove  not  the  ancient  land-mark  which  thy 
fathers  have  set."  Have  we  come  to  the  time  when  we  shall  have  to 
guarantee  payment  in  silver  before  our  citizens  will  go  to  war  to  protect 
the  ideals  of  our  government  ?  If  we  have,  then  our  citizenry  have  lost  the 
ideals  of  the  founders,  and  have  forfeited  their  rights  and  the  finer  feel- 
ings of  what  we  call  patriotism.  When  the  American  Revolution  and  the 
Civil  War  were  fought,  men  went  to  war  because  of  their  love  of  country. 
They  believed  it  a  divine  duty  to  die  for  their  country.  They  were  reared 
in  the  belief  that  sacrifice  for  truth  is  a  divine  injunction  of  God.  Many 
of  us  recall  the  words  of  Garibaldi,  the  Italian  liberator,  when  he  spoke 
to  the  youth  of  Italy.    Said  he : 

Fortune,  who  betrays  us  today,  will  smile  on  us  tomorrow.  I  am 
going  out  from  Rome.  Let  those  who  wish  to  continue  the  war  against 
the  stranger,  come  with  me.  I  offer  neither  pay  nor  quarters,  nor  provision. 
I  offer  hunger,  thirst,  battles  and  death.  Let  him  who  loves  his  country 
with  his  heart  and  not  with  his  lips  only,  follow  me. 

Hunger,  thirst,  forced  marches,  battles,  death. 

Such  was  the  offer — nothing  more — remarks  the  historian  Tre- 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


67 


velyan.  Today  we  are  purchasing  souls  for  war ;  we  are  offering  idleness 
for  work ;  we  are  dissipating  the  resources  that  God  gave  us ;  we  are 
trying  to  solve  our  problems  from  without,  and  not  from  within.  Jesus 
said  on  one  occasion:  "I  am  come  that  they  might  have  life,  and  that 
they  might  have  it  more  abundantly."  This  sentence  was  the  basic  thought 
of  his  religion.  He  gave  us  the  meaning  of  rich  and  radiant  living.  He 
told  us  to  live  our  lives  from  within;  and  in  this  should  be  our  power, 
which  is  the  "inner  light,"  the  light  of  God  ever  leading  us  on.  The 
forces  which  are  to  make  the  world  the  world  it  ought  to  be,  are  now 
within  it.  These  forces  are  the  divine  principles  that  were  taught  by 
Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  By  these  principles  knowledge  will  be  higher, 
ambition  nobler,  and  life  more  divine. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  religion  that  must  solve  the  problems 
of  our  civilization  today,  and  if  we  do  not  go  back  to  God  and  the 
religion  of  the  Master,  our  western  civilization  is  destined  to  be 
destroyed.  Religion  at  its  best  has  supplied,  and  it  can  now  supply, 
"the  motives,  faiths,  insights,  hopes,  convictions,  by  which  men  inwardly 
come  to  terms  with  themselves  and  with  their  fellow  men."  We  must 
come  to  a  new  spiritual  ascendency  over  our  baser  selves.  To  achieve 
peace  in  this  world  of  ours,  this  will  have  to  be  done.  We  must  come 
to  religion  by  way  of  life,  and  a  deeper  desire  within  to  live  life  well. 
As  soon  as  we  strike  this  road  again,  we  will  find  the  high  way  where 
the  seers  and  prophets  of  the  spirit  are  walking ;  and  above  all  we  will 
distinguish  there  the  footsteps  of  the  Son  of  God.  We  will  bring  our 
lives  into  the  inner  world  of  man's  divine  life  and  light.  Once  more  we 
will  bring  God  and  his  Son  back  to  us  through  the  inward  and  not  the 
outward;  through  our  faith  and  confidence  in  the  Savior  of  the  world. 

You  and  I  and  all  people  will  have  to  do  away  with  hatred  in  our 
hearts.  The  inner  light  is  the  light  of  God ;  it  is  the  light  of  love  and 
truth.  As  I  walked  to  this  meeting  this  morning  a  man  handed  me  a 
vicious  document  of  hatred  for  the  Jews.  I  wish  to  say  unhesitatingly 
that  I  love  the  history  of  the  Jews.  They  gave  us  the  greatest  book 
of  all  time,  the  Holy  Bible,  and  they  played  a  large  part  in  the  American 
Revolution.  A  Jew  raised  his  voice  in  the  Continental  Congress  one 
time  and  said,  "It  is  for  God  and  hence  for  right."  The  Jews  are,  as  a 
whole,  a  noble  race.  All  people  have  their  failings  but  we  must  come  to 
love  the  peoples  of  the  world  and  do  away  with  hate. 

The  German  Lessing,  who  wrote  "Nathan  the  Wise,"  put  these 
words  into  the  mouth  of  the  Jew  and  the  Christian  who  were  conversing. 
The  Jew  said :  "O  Christian,  I  understand  you  now  because  of  the  spirit 
of  your  Christ  that  is  in  my  soul."  And  the  Christian  replied :  "O  Jew, 
I  understand  you  because  of  the  spirit  of  your  God  and  our  God." 

The  spirit  of  the  American  government  must  be  restored.  Man 
must  earn  his  bread  by  the  sweat  of  his  brow,  then  the  old  time  patriot- 
ism will  again  be  in  the  hearts  of  men. 

The  real  test  of  the  strength  of  civilization  is  in  the  moral  capacity 
of  the  rank  and  file  of  the  citizens  to  give  up  the  pleasures  of  the  present 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


for  greater  rewards  in  the  future.  This  quality  is  the  foundation  of 
both  moral  and  spiritual  character.  The  social  security  of  a  nation  is 
based  on  the  character  of  the  citizens,  not  on  the  amount  of  material 
comforts  the  government  may  bestow  upon  them.  Hard  work  and 
sacrifice  make  men  strong.  Ease  and  gifts  from  any  source  are 
destructive  to  efficiency,  character,  and  citizenship.  Social  security  is 
in  the  character  of  the  citizens  and  hence  must  come  from  within. 
Social  security  can  not  be  bestowed  from  without. 

The  Abby  Genty,  a  French  savant  during  the  French  Revolution, 
declared  before  the  students  of  Paris  University  that  "the  independence 
of  the  Americans  is  the  event  most  likely  to  accelerate  the  revolution 
which  is  to  renew  the  happiness  of  the  world.  In  the  bosom  of  this 
new  nation  are  the  treasures  which  are  to  renew  the  world."  He 
named  the  relief  to  crowded  Europe  as  one  of  the  blessings  to  come  to 
mankind.  The  Emancipation  of  Slaves,  the  End  of  Conquest,  Universal 
Peace,  the  Conversion  of  the  World  to  Christianity,  are  others.  All 
these  were  to  spring  from  the  truth,  honor,  and  the  virtue  of  three 
millions  of  Americans  who  believed  in  God.  America  has  given  us  an 
ideal.  It  is  not  gold,  nor  silver,  nor  brass,  nor  iron  which  makes 
success.  It  is  truth,  honor,  and  justice.  It  is  faith,  hope,  and  love.  It 
is,  as  the  learned  Abby  suggested,  on  the  virtues  of  mankind  and  the 
freedom  of  mankind  that  the  future  of  mankind  is  to  be  builded. 

When  we  have  learned  the  Christian  way  of  living  and  have  gone 
back  to  God,  then  the  words  of  another  sage  will  come  true : 

It  will  change  everything. 

I  can  see  the  end  of  war  in  this,  some  day. 

I  can  see  the  joy  of  women  and  little  children,  some  day. 

I  can  see  cities  and  great  spaces  of  land  full  of  happiness. 

I  can  see  love  shining  in  every  face. 

There  shall  be  no  more  sin,  no  pain,  no  loss,  no  death — 

Only  Life,  only  God — some  day  when 

The  world  shall  have  learned. 

I  pray  that  we  may  sense  keenly  two  things  this  day.  I  pray  that 
the  Spirit  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  may  find  lodgment  in  our  souls  as 
never  before,  and  that  we  may  hold  sacred  as  a  trust  of  God,  the 
Constitution  of  the  United  States.  God  grant  that  we  may  always  see 
the  right,  I  ask  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 
Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  thrilled  with  the  thought  today  that  this  body  of  men  and 
women  have  enjoyed,  since  this  conference  convened,  the  true  spirit 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and,  that  from  the  very  commencement  of 
our  exercises  advice  and  admonition  have  been  given  to  this  people 
in  a  spirit  of  love  and  solicitiude,  and  also  in  a  way  and  manner  which 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


69 


will,  I  feel  sure,  sink  into  the  hearts  of  us  to  the  end  that  we  shall  not 
be  turned  aside  from  the  sacred  duties  which  devolve  upon  us. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  statement  of  one  of  the  prophets  of  old 
when  he  said :  "Oh  Lord,  I  know  that  the  way  of  man  is  not  in  himself ; 
it  is  not  in  man  that  walketh  to  direct  his  steps." 

And,  so,  as  I  cast  my  eyes  over  this  great  congregation  and  think 
of  the  things  that  have  transpired,  the  things  which  today  are  transpiring, 
and  the  things  which  in  the  future  will  transpire,  I  feel  sure  that  this 
prophecy  was  not  directed  to  the  individual,  but  rather  to  the  collective 
horde  of  mankind  upon  the  earth.  Surely  and  truly  this  people  should 
be  a  people  filled  with  gratitude  and  praise  unto  God  our  Eternal 
Father  for  the  mercies  and  the  blessings  which  have  come  unto  them. 
We  have  had  evidence  of  God's  handiwork  in  all  we  have  been  hearing, 
and  even  in  these  past  two  weeks  I  personally  think,  at  least  to  me,  has 
come  another  testimony  of  this  Gospel,  which  in  no  other  way  could 
have  come. 

I  refer  to  the  pilgrimage  which  will  become  history,  which  was 
taken  back  over  the  familiar  pioneer  trail  to  Florence,  Nebraska.  There, 
upon  that  sacred  hill,  made  so  by  the  bodies  of  hundreds — they  say 
nearly  600  people — who  laid  down  their  lives,  and  at  a  time  when  it 
was  virtually  a  wilderness,  and  under  the  most  trying  circumstances. 
There  came  from  their  ashes  and  their  dust  a  spirit  which  blended  into 
the  lives  of  the  men  and  women  who  fortunately  attended  this  dedicatory 
service,  a  something  which  bore  to  them  the  truth  and  divinity  of  this 
great  work  in  which  we  are  now  engaged.  When  we  heard  our  leaders, 
the  authorities  of  our  Church,  telling  of  this  wonderful  pilgrimage 
of  our  forebears,  and  then  heard  the  governor  of  the  state  of  Nebraska, 
the  mayor  of  the  city  of  Omaha,  and  Carl  R.  Gray,  the  president  of 
the  Union  Pacific  Railroad  System,  all  uniting  their  voices  with  ours 
in  testimony  of  that  which  had  been  done,  surely,  I  said  to  myself,  this 
is  virtually  a  whispering  spirit  from  the  dead.  And,  at  night,  as  we 
assembled  in  that  great  and  wonderful  Joslyn  Memorial,  that  great 
temple  of  marble,  erected  in  Omaha  with  its  art  gallery,  and  the  seats 
upholstered  in  the  last  word  of  the  art  of  the  upholsterer,  and  saw  our 
brethren  who  were  there,  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  Apostles 
and  others  as  they  sat  on  the  stand  and  spoke  to  that  large  audience, 
surely  gratitude  filled  every  heart  of  those  who  had  gone  to  pay  honor 
to  their  departed  loved  ones  who  were  buried  in  the  Florence  cemetery. 
It  was  my  privilge  to  sit  next  to  two  gentlemen  who  were  inclined  to 
talk  a  little,  and  they  said  as  the  service  went  on :  "They  are  all  spell- 
binders, aren't  they?" 

Then,  as  Senator  Smoot  finished  his  address  one  said  to  the  other : 
"You  know  a  man  of  such  national  prominence  as  Reed  Smoot,  who 
will  give  attention  and  pay  heed  to  that  which  he  is  saying  certainly 
deserves  attention;  we  ought  to  do  something  ourselves,  because  I  am 
sure  that  what  he  says  has  in  it  all  the  ear  marks  of  worthwhile 
endeavor  for  mankind  to  listen  to  and  follow." 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


These  things,  coupled  with  the  things  which  today  are  going  on 
in  our  very  midst,  the  advice  and  counsel  of  the  authorities  of  the 
Church,  asking  us  to  go  forward  and  carry  out  this  wonderful  system 
of  our  relief  program,  and  that  system  which  has  arrested  the  attention 
of  the  United  States  as  a  whole,  and,  I  am  sure,  foreign  countries  as 
well,  ought  to  speak  to  you  and  to  me  this  word,  that  it  is  truly  the 
inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost  through  God  himself  that  these  things 
come  to  this  people  who  a  few  years  ago  were  persecuted  and  driven 
from  pillar  to  post,  and  yet  today  stand  out  shining  lights  before  many 
people,  exhibiting  that  which  the  Gospel  has  produced  among  the 
children  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ.  Truly,  in  the  world 
today,  if  we  will  stop  and  think  of  the  prayer  Orson  Hyde  uttered  on 
that  sacred  hill  in  Jerusalem,  it  is  being  more  fully  realized  and  compre- 
hended than  we  ourselves,  I  think,  can  understand.  God  has  said  to 
us  that  he  would  make  us  lie  down  in  green  pastures,  and  lead  us  beside 
the  still  waters ;  that  he  would  guide  us  in  paths  of  righteousness  for 
his  name's  sake,  and  I  am  sure  he  is  doing  it.  I  know  that  the  statement 
of  Jeremiah  is  being  fulfilled  wherein  he  said :  "Oh  Lord,  I  know  that 
the  way  of  man  is  not  in  himself ;  it  is  not  in  man  that  walketh  to  direct 
his  steps." 

My  prayer  is  for  courage,  faith,  hope,  and  above  all,  thankful  and 
grateful  hearts  to  God  for  that  which  we  have  received,  and  that  which 
we  are  receiving.  May  God  grant  us  these  things,  I  humbly  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  "Singing  Mothers"  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  "The 
Star  Spangled  Banner." 

Elder  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch,  President  of  the  Granite  Stake,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 

SECOND  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference  commenced  promptly  at  2 
o'clock  Saturday  afternoon,  October  3,  with  President  Grant  presiding. 

The  Relief  Society  "Singing  Mothers"  furnished  the  music  for  this 
meeting.  The  opening  number  was  an  anthem,  "How  Lovely  Are  Thy 
Dwellings,  O  Lord."  (Rheinberger). 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Martin  Twitchell,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Garfield  Stake. 

The  Relief  Society  "Singing  Mothers"  sang  "Seraphic  Song"  (Rub- 
enstein) — Mrs.  Bessie  Morley,  Alto;  William  Hardiman,  Violinist. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


71 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  very  grateful  to  be  in  attendance  at  this  conference.  I  have 
been  thinking  of  the  brethren  who  are  not  here  because  of  illness  or  due 
to  the  fact  that  they  are  in  foreign  lands.  They  are  deprived  of  the  com- 
panionship that  we  enjoy  but  wherever  they  are  if  in  the  line  of  duty  they 
may  partake  of  the  Spirit  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

I  have  rejoiced  in  the  sweet  strains  of  music  to  which  we  have 
listened,  to  the  prayers  that  have  been  offered  and  to  the  discourses  that 
have  been  delivered. 

ETERNAL  HAPPINESS  THROUGH  OBEDIENCE  AND  SERVICE 

We  are  greatly  blessed  as  a  people  and  we  have  need  to  express  our 
gratitude  in  service,  not  only  in  lip  service,  but  by  giving  of  ourselves  to 
the  blessing  of  mankind.  Our  eternal  happiness  will  be  in  proportion 
to  the  way  that  we  devote  ourselves  to  helping  others.  It  will  be 
conditioned  upon  the  things  that  we  do  and  say  while  we  are  here  in 
mortality. 

This  is  a  probationary  condition  for  us.  Our  Heavenly  Father  gave 
our  first  parents  an  opportunity  to  come  and  he  told  them  what  they  ought 
to  do,  and  all  down  through  the  ages  he  has  been  instructing  us  through 
his  prophets.  Wherever  the  people  have  listened  to  the  prophets  they 
have  had  success  and  happiness  and  they  have  been  making  preparation 
for  eternal  joy.  Where  they  have  refused  to  be  mindful  of  the  teachings 
of  the  Lord  through  his  servants,  they  have  paid  the  penalty.  Not  only 
have  they  suffered  in  mortal  life,  but  they  have  forfeited  the  blessings 
that  they  might  enjoy  in  immortal  life. 

Think  of  the  experiences  through  which  we  personally  pass  while 
here  in  the  world  and  of  the  centuries  of  history  available  from  which 
we  may  learn  valuable  lessons. 

DESTROYED  BECAUSE  OF  THEIR  WICKEDNESS 

By  reading  the  Old  Testament  we  learn  that  for  a  long  period  of 
time  after  Adam  came,  the  people,  exercising  their  agency,  determined 
to  have  their  own  way  and  followed  after  the  teachings  of  the  adversary 
until  they  were  too  wicked  to  live.  The  flood  came  and  only  those  were 
left  who  had  been  obedient  and  had  sought  to  do  the  Lord's  will.  Abra- 
ham tells  us  of  the  destruction  by  fire  of  the  people  of  Sodom  and 
Gomorrah  because  of  their  wickedness. 

Why  was  it  necessary  for  the  flood  to  come?  Why  did  the  Lord 
permit  the  cities  of  the  plains  to  be  destroyed  by  fire?  It  was  because 
the  people  would  not  take  advantage  of  their  opportunities.  They  were 
not  only  wasting  their  lives  here  upon  the  earth  but  were  also  bringing 
into  the  world  another  generation  which  would  follow  their  bad  example. 
In  both  cases,  it  seems  to  me,  our  Heavenly  Father  in  his  wisdom  and 
mercy  cleansed  the  earth  by  the  flood  and  cleared  the  way  for  a  righteous 


72 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


people  to  dwell  here  if  they  would.  The  cities  of  the  plains  were  burned 
that  their  wickedness  might  not  continue  to  jeopardize  other  com- 
munities and  children  as  yet  unborn. 

THE  EXPERIENCES  OF  JACOB  AND  HIS  SONS 

We  remember  the  experiences  of  Jacob.  He  resided  in  a  country 
which  was  fruitful  and  he  was  prosperous  but  in  the  mercy  of  the  Lord 
who  knew  all  things,  Joseph,  one  of  Jacob's  sons,  was  sold  into  slavery 
by  his  own  brothers  and  taken  to  Egypt.  After  he  had  been  there  some 
time  Joseph  being  inspired  by  the  Lord  became  the  chief  adviser  to 
Pharaoh  and  directed  the  people  to  prepare  for  a  deadly  famine  that  was 
to  follow  seven  plenteous  years.  Joseph  not  only  brought  a  blessing  to 
the  people  of  Egypt  but  because  he  kept  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
he  was  the  means  of  saving  his  father's  household  from  starvation  by 
bringing  them  to  a  land  of  plenty. 

Then  Moses  came,  and,  directed  by  the  Lord,  led  the  people  who  had 
become  slaves  in  Egypt  out  of  their  bondage,  into  the  Promised  Land. 
When  they  kept  his  commandments  they  prospered ;  when  they  refused 
to  keep  his  commandments  they  paid  the  penalty  of  their  disobedience. 

These  were  the  people  that  were  saved  from  the  Egyptians  and  from 
drowning  in  the  Red  Sea  when  the  Egyptian  army  was  destroyed  there, 
who  were  fed  by  quails  and  by  manna  from  heaven,  saved  from  thirst 
at  Horeb  when  water  gushed  forth  from  the  rock  when  commanded 
to  do  so  by  the  Lord,  and  guided  by  a  pillar  of  cloud  by  day  and  a  pillar 
of  fire  by  night. 

PRINCES  OF  ISRAEL  DISOBEDIENCE  AND  DESTRUCTION 

There  were  in  that  day,  as  there  have  always  been,  those  who  prided 
themselves  upon  their  intellectuality  and  ability.  Upon  one  occasion  while 
in  the  wilderness  Moses  told  the  camp  to  do  certain  things.  There  were 
some  of  the  princes  of  Israel,  men  held  in  high  esteem — among  them 
Korah,  Dathan  and  Abiram — who  refused  to  comply  with  the  request  of 
Moses  and  informed  him  that  they  were  holy.  Because  they  had  trans- 
gressed and  become  darkened  in  mind  they  didn't  realize  that  the  ad- 
versary was  influencing  them.  They  refused  to  do  what  the  Lord 
wanted  them  to  do — not  what  Moses  desired  of  them  but  what  the  Lord 
required  of  them.  And  then  they  defied  Moses  and  criticized  him  and 
found  fault  with  him.  The  result  was  that  a  large  number  of  them  were 
swallowed  up  in  an  earthquake,  and  about  fourteen  thousand  seven 
hundred  others  who  complained  because  of  what  had  happened  to  Korah 
and  his  followers  were  suddenly  swept  away  by  a  plague. 

All  down  through  history  not  only  has  there  been  spiritual  distress 
but  physical  distresses  have  followed  the  people  of  God  when  they  have 
been  instructed  what  to  do  and  have  refused. 

AT  THE  TIME  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

We  come  to  the  time  of  the  Savior.  He  was  the  Son  of  God,  and  as 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


73 


long  as  people  listened  to  his  advice  and  counsel  they  had  their  blessings, 
but  they  failed  to  keep  his  commandments  and  the  result  was  that  the 
people  from  whom  he  came  were  scattered.  Jerusalem  was  destroyed  and 
a  terrible  condition  arose.  But  prior  to  that  time  the  Lord  knowing 
what  would  occur  took  a  remnant  of  his  people  and  brought  them  across 
the  mighty  ocean  to  the  Western  Hemisphere. 

THE  DESCENDANTS  OF  LEHI 

It  was  during  the  reign  of  King  Zedekiah,  six  hundred  years  before 
the  birth  of  Christ,  that  Lehi,  a  servant  of  the  Lord,  crossed  the  ocean 
with  his  family.  It  was  a  new  world  to  them.  They  were  at  the  mercy 
of  the  winds  and  waves  of  the  sea,  but  the  Lord  provided  them  with  a 
compass  whereby  they  might  know  which  way  to  steer  their  vessel  to 
arrive  at  their  destination. 

But  some  of  the  sons  of  Lehi  rebelled  and  whenever  they  rebelled 
the  compass  would  not  work  and  they  drifted  hither  and  thither  until 
they  would  repent.  When  they  turned  to  the  Lord  the  compass  operated 
and  they  could  steer  their  vessel  in  the  direction  of  its  destination. 

They  came  to  this  country.  Soon  after  their  arrival  Laman  and 
Lemuel  became  rebellious  and  they  and  their  group  refused  to  listen  to 
the  advice  of  their  father  or  their  younger  brother  Nephi  whom  the 
Lord  had  inspired.  Nephi,  desiring  peace,  went  into  another  section 
of  the  country  with  his  followers  and  left  that  which  they  esteemed  to 
be  a  better  part  to  Laman  and  Lemuel  and  those  who  followed  them. 

What  was  the  result?  Those  who  kept  the  commandments  of  the 
Lord  prospered.  As  long  as  they  were  faithful  they  were  blessed  and 
became  a  mighty  multitude.  Those  who  followed  Laman  and  Lemuel 
because  of  their  wilfulness  were  cursed  with  a  dark  skin  and  later 
became  known  as  Indians.  They  lost  their  written  language.  They 
retained  the  story  of  their  former  lives  and  the  lives  of  their  parents  by 
tradition.  Nephi's  people  remained  white  and  as  long  as  they  honored 
God  and  obeyed  him  were  marvelously  blessed. 

After  his  resurrection  the  Savior  visited  America  as  he  had  promised 
and  conferred  upon  the  faithful  people  the  same  blessings  that  he  be- 
stowed upon  those  at  Jerusalem.  He  gave  them  the  priesthood  and 
ordained  apostles.  He  told  them  what  they  should  do  as  a  Church,  and 
for  two  hundred  years  they  were  a  righteous  people.  They  kept  his 
commandments  and  they  were  happy.  Then  came  a  period  of  wickedness 
and  the  destruction  of  the  white  race  by  the  Lamanites. 

When  Columbus  discovered  America  the  Lamanites  were  here  in 
large  numbers.  They  had  lost  their  written  language  and  knew  of  their 
ancestry  only  by  tradition.  They  were  a  degraded  people.  They  had 
suffered  the  penalty  of  refusing  to  take  advantage  of  the  opportunities 
that  the  Lord  in  his  mercy  had  offered  to  them  when  he  brought  their 
ancestors  to  America. 

MODERN  PROPHETS  AND  EXPERIENCES 

The  Lord  raised  up  mighty  men  to  establish  the  United '  States  of 


74 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


America,  and  we  became  a  nation.  He  gave  us  a  glorious  Constitution 
for  our  guidance  and  protection.  He  revealed  himself  again  to  the  chil- 
dren of  men  and  gave  us  another  prophet.  This  prophet  was  only  a  youth 
but  the  Lord  blessed  him  and  magnified  him  and  gave  to  him  revelations. 
He  organized  a  Church  as  commanded  and  we  are  members  of  that 
Church. 

The  purpose  of  it  was  to  prepare  us  to  live  eternally  right  here  upon 
this  earth,  not  upon  some  other  earth.  The  Lord  in  his  mercy  restored 
the  priesthood  that  had  been  lost  to  the  earth.  As  martyrs  for  the  truth, 
this  prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum  sealed  their  testi- 
monies with  their  blood. 

But  the  Lord  raised  up  another  leader.  Brigham  Young  was  called. 
And  the  people  followed  him  and  came  into  these  mountain  vales.  I 
know  of  no  people  who  have  ever  lived  that  have  been  more  wonderfully 
blessed  than  have  the  people  who  followed  President  Young  out  into  this 
section  of  the  country.  It  has  been  my  privilege  within  the  last  few 
days,  in  company  with  three  of  my  brethren,  to  cover  most  of  that  trail. 
We  came  from  Nauvoo  along  the  route  the  first  company  followed  and 
saw  where  they  were  camped  at  Sugar  Creek,  Garden  Grove,  Mount 
Pisgah,  and  other  places.  They  were  a  courageous  people. 

Winter  Quarters,  where  the  monument  was  dedicated  two  weeks 
ago  yesterday,  has  been  referred  to  here.  The  people  were  absolutely 
expatriated  from  their  own  lands,  not  for  any  wrong  that  they  had  done, 
but  the  Lord  as  in  the  case  of  Joseph  in  Egypt  had  a  mission  for  them 
to  perform.  Joseph  had  not  committed  any  wrong  when  he  was  sold 
into  slavery  and  cast  into  prison,  but  he  was  needed  and  he  had  the 
courage  to  face  his  problems  and  became  the  savior  of  his  race. 

So  it  was  with  those  who  had  turned  their  backs  upon  civilization, 
many  crossing  the  Mississippi  river  and  the  plains  of  Iowa  in  the  winter. 
Many  came  later  to  the  valley  of  the  Great  Salt  Lake  from  other  parts 
of  America  and  from  Europe. 

I  stood  just  a  few  days  ago  upon  the  ground  near  Iowa  City  where 
three  thousand  of  our  people  who  had  come  from  the  east  and  from 
the  old  world,  desirous  of  being  with  the  body  of  the  Church  and  unable 
to  afford  teams  and  wagons,  began  their  pilgrimage  with  handcarts. 
We  went  over  the  trail  where  they  traveled  and  saw  where  they  had 
been.  Many  of  them  laid  down  their  lives  as  a  testimony  of  their  faith 
in  God.  They  gave  their  all  and  thereby  became  martyrs  for  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ.  They  have  earned  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom, 
the  highest  reward  of  all. 

Driven  from  their  homes  in  so-called  civilization  they  suffered  from 
exposure  and  the  want  of  every  comfort,  facing  dangers  seen  and 
unseen  and  passing  through  every  unpleasant  experience  that  you  can 
think  of  they  laid  the  foundation  of  this  beautiful  city  and  other  happy 
communities.  They  gave  to  us  this  building  in  which  we  worship  today. 
They  began  the  Temple  that  is  upon  the  ground  just  east  of  us.  And  we 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


75 


were  fully  established  in  the  tops  of  the  mountains  before  the  passing  of 
Brigham  Young. 

NO  SAFETY  EXCEPT  IN  RIGHTEOUSNESS 

I  have  covered  several  thousand  years  of  time  in  a  few  minutes  but 
the  thing  that  I  would  like  to  emphasize  is  that  all  through  this  period 
those  who  kept  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  were  laying  up  treasures 
in  heaven  that  nobody  can  take  from  them.  They  are  sure  of  eternal 
life  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  What  of  those  who  refused  to  do  what 
the  Lord  would  have  them  do?  Think  of  those  people  in  the  days  of 
Moses  who  ignored  the  advice  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  were  swal- 
lowed up  by  an  earthquake  or  were  destroyed  by  a  plague.  They  for- 
feited all  because  of  disobedience.  But  do  we  realize  that  in  our  own 
day  and  in  our  own  time  if  we  fail  to  keep  the  commandments  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  the  difficulties  and  distresses  that  afflict  mankind 
generally  will  come  to  us.  The  only  assurance  we  have  of  safety  is  on 
the  score  of  righteousness.   There  is  no  other  way. 

OUR  PRESENT  PRESIDENT'S  ADVICE  REJECTED 

There  are  those  among  us  today  who  have  been  blinded  by  the 
philosophies  and  foolishness  of  men.  There  are  those  who  reject  the 
advice  and  counsel  of  the  man  that  God  has  placed  at  the  head  of  this 
Church. 

I  am  grieved  as  I  stand  here  and  think  of  the  way  we  rejected  the 
counsel  of  President  Grant.  And  I  don't  want  to  be  counted  among  that 
"we"  for  I  was  not — but  there  were  those  among  us  who  rejected  the 
advice  of  the  President  of  this  Church  and  voted  to  repeal  the  Eighteenth 
Amendment  and  approved  of  bringing  intoxicating  liquor  back  into  our 
community  and  legalizing  it.  That  action  has  increased  our  accidents 
and  murders  and  thousands  of  the  sons  and  daughters  of  America  are 
losing  themselves  and  are  being  debauched  beyond  the  possibility  of 
recovery. 

Had  we  listened  to  the  man  who  stands  at  our  head  and  done  our 
duty  we  would  not  in  this  valley  and  other  places  be  suffering  from  the 
distresses  that  have  come  upon  us,  at  least,  we  would  not  be  responsible 
for  them. 

People  who  haven't  very  much  information  suddenly  come  along 
with  a  bright  idea,  and  they  suggest  "this  is  the  way"  or  "that  is  the  way," 
and  although  it  is  in  conflict  with  the  advice  of  the  Lord  some  are  per- 
suaded to  try  it.  The  Lord  has  given  safe  advice  and  appointed  the 
President  of  his  Church  to  interpret  that  advice.  If  we  ignore  what  he 
advises,  as  the  President  of  the  Church,  we  may  discover  that  we  have 
made  a  serious  mistake. 

THE  LORD  INTENDS  WE  SHALL  WORK 

He  has  advised  us  to  work.  He  has  advised  us  to  take  care  of  our- 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


selves  and  not  become  objects  of  charity.  He  has  advised  us  not  to 
look  forward  to  the  time  when  we  can  sit  down  in  ease  and  live  upon 
the  efforts  of  somebody  who  is  more  industrious  or  more  successful  or 
more  faithful. 

He  has  advised  us  to  be  real  men  and  real  women.  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  if  you  will  take  that  counsel,  if  the  mem- 
bership of  this  Church  will  carry  out  the  program  that  has  been  started 
God  will  bless  us.  We  will  have  joy  and  satisfaction  in  our  homes.  We 
will  not  be  concerned  as  to  the  conditions  that  exist  abroad.  More  than 
that,  there  will  be  peace  and  love  in  our  homes  and  that  comfort  that 
can  only  come  from  our  Heavenly  Father.  That  is  the  plan.  Do  you 
believe  it?  Do  you  believe  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints?  Do  you  believe  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet 
of  the  Lord?  Do  you  believe  that  the  man  who  stands  at  the  head 
represents  our  Heavenly  Father?  He  may  make  mistakes.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  made  his.  Moses,  the  greatest  leader  of  ancient  times,  made  his 
mistakes.  But  I  want  to  say  that  as  long  as  the  Lord  sustains  his  leaders 
we  should  sustain  them.  Today  the  men  who  stand  at  our  head  are 
unselfishly  giving  of  their  time  that  not  only  we  but  the  world  in  general 
may  be  blessed.  As  long  as  the  Lord  gives  them  physical  strength, 
mental  power  and  spiritual  light,  if  we  are  wise  we  will  follow  their 
advice  and  counsel. 

When  I  think  of  those  who  came  here  into  this  arid  country,  how  they 
divided  the  little  substance  they  had  with  one  another,  how  they  worked 
with  their  hands,  not  only  the  men  but  the  women  and  the  children, 
I  tell  you  it  is  a  serious  thing  whenever  we  or  any  other  people  set  up  a 
regulation  that  says  to  our  boys  and  girls :  "You  shall  not  work  until  you 
are  eighteen  years  of  age." 

That  is  not  the  Lord's  way.  Our  Heavenly  Father  intended  that 
we  should  work.  He  made  it  possible  for  us  to  work  in  this  land  and 
will  continue  to  do  so.  One  of  the  greatest  curses  that  could  come  to 
humanity  would  be  to  lose  the  power  to  work,  and  yet  many  seem  not 
to  appreciate  that  fact. 

WHAT  OF  THE  FUTURE 

I  am  thinking  of  the  future.  I  am  thinking  of  the  handwriting 
upon  the  wall  in  the  days  of  Daniel  and  Nebuchadnezzar.  I  am  thinking 
of  the  conditions  in  the  world  today.  The  Lord  has  drawn  you  out  of 
the  world,  has  brought  you  to  the  fastness  of  these  great  hills,  has  given 
you  an  opportunity  that  you  may  be  preserved  from  the  evils  of  mankind 
if  you  will,  and  has  promised  you  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom 
if  you  will  be  faithful. 

I  am  grateful  today  for  the  blessing  that  is  mine.  I  am  thankful  for 
membership  in  this  Church.  I  am  happy  to  be  identified  with  the  men 
who  are  in  its  leadership  and  I  am  thankful  to  be  a  member  of  the 
Church  to  which  you  belong  and  to  associate  with  you  in  the  flock. 

We  can  read  the  history  of  mankind  and  see  that  when  men  honored 


ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS  77 

the  Lord  they  were  happy  and  prosperous ;  when  they  turned  their  backs 
upon  him  and  listened  to  the  adversary  of  all  righteousness,  they  lost 
their  blessing  and  were  often  destroyed.  Yet,  with  all  that  information 
before  us,  there  are  good  men  and  good  women  in  our  own  communities 
who  are  blinded  by  the  philosophies  of  mankind,  and  they  are  going  along 
jn  the  broad  way  that  leads  to  destruction  and  unless  they  repent  of  their 
sins  and  turn  back,  they  will  be  lost. 

HAPPINESS  IN  PROPORTION  TO  RIGHTEOUS  LIVING 

There  are  many  things  that  might  be  referred  to  wherein  we  are 
falling  short,  but  I  see  many  successes  attained.  I  also  see  the  joy  and 
happiness  in  the  homes  of  our  people,  and  I  pray  that  as  a  people  we  will 
look  for  the  light  and  not  for  the  darkness,  that  we  will  follow  our  leaders 
and  not  the  trailers,  that  we  will  go  forward,  each  realizing  that  we 
live  independent  lives,  and  our  eternal  happiness  will  be  in  proportion  to 
our  righteous  living.  The  Lord  has  offered  us  opportunities  for  develop- 
ment that  the  world  has  never  known  before.  Are  we  going  to  be  blinded 
by  the  foolishness  of  others  and  lose  our  privileges,  or  will  we  cling  to  the 
iron  red  with  our  faces  to  our  problems  and  our  backs  to  those  who 
would  lead  us  astray  ? 

So,  Father  in  heaven,  we  are  grateful  for  our  membership  in  thy 
Church.  We  desire  to  be  worthy  of  it  and  with  thy  help  we  will  prove 
our  devotion  to  thee  and  thy  cause.  That  we  may  continue  so  to  do  and 
gain  eternal  life  in  the  celestial  kingdom  in  the  companionship  of  the 
best  men  and  women  that  have  ever  lived  or  will  live  upon  the  earth,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS 

President  of  the  S panish- American  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  glorious  sight  takes  my  breath  away 
from  me.  This  is  a  glorious  privilege  that  I  am  today  adding  to  my  privi- 
leges and  blessings  that  have  come  to  me  as  a  result  of  this  Gospel,  and 
I  am  grateful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  it. 

I  am  happy  to  report  the  Spanish-American  Mission.  Although  it 
is  new  in  name  yet  this  mission  has  existed  for  many  years  as  a  part  of 
the  Mexican  Mission. 

I  say  to  the  parents  that  your  boys  and  girls,  the  Elders  and  lady 
missionaries  in  this  mission  are  well  and  happy  in  the  work  that  they  are 
doing  in  spreading  the  principles  of  this  Gospel.  We  have  had  very  little 
sickness  among  the  missionaries  during  the  summer  months,  some  slight 
colds  as  a  result  of  extreme  heat  in  the  southwest  and  along  the  Mexican 
border,  but  at  this  time  they  are  all  well  and  happy. 

It  would  be  a  source  of  joy  and  would  gladden  the  hearts  of  each 
and  every  parent  if  they  could  hear  the  prayers  that  the  missionaries  are 
offering  daily  in  their  behalf,  giving  thanks  for  the  privileges  given  them, 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  they  are  praying  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  continue  to  bless  you 
at  home,  that  you  will  enjoy  the  same  privileges,  the  outpouring  of  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  they  enjoy,  and  that  it  will  be  possible  for  you  to 
continue  the  means  whereby  they  are  sustained  in  the  mission  field. 

Brother  George  Albert  Smith  in  speaking  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
and  the  promises  of  the  Lamanite  people  therein  contained,  reminded  me 
of  the  fact  that  my  assignment  is  to  this  people,  that  it  is  my  duty  through 
the  help  of  the  missionaries  that  have  been  sent  to  me,  under  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  this  people,  that 
they,  through  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel,  may  be  redeemed,  that  they 
may  be  restored  to  the  former  knowledge  that  their  parents  had,  and  that 
they  may  be  again  restored  to  that  glory  that  once  obtained  upon  these 
continents,  as  evidenced  by  the  wonderful  ruins  that  have  been  excavated 
in  Mexico  and  in  Central  America. 

Theirs  was  a  mighty  race,  a  vast  civilization  ,at  one  time.  As  has 
been  stated  here  previously  in  this  conference,  these  things  were  unknown 
at  the  time  of  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  was  an  instrument  of  our  Father  in  heaven  and  gave  to  the 
world  a  knowledge  of  things  that  were  past  and  a  knowledge  of  things 
that  would  be  proven  to  them  in  the  future. 

Today  these  are  demonstrated  facts. 

I  was  interested  in  the  remarks  of  President  Richards  before  the 
class  at  the  Mission  Home  this  morning,  wherein  he  said  that  in  the  early 
days  of  this  Church,  the  missionaries  were  sent  forth  among  the  inhabi- 
tants of  the  earth  to  tell  them  that  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel  was  about 
to  take  place — that  the  prieshood  was  to  be  restored  and  that  the  keys 
would  be  restored  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  associates  by  those 
heavenly  messengers  who  had  held  them  in  former  dispensations.  He 
pointed  out  that  the  duty  of  the  Elders  and  the  missionaries  in  the  world 
today  had  changed — that  it  is  their  duty  to  testify  that  these  are  demon- 
strated facts,  that  these  heavenly  messengers  have  come,  that  the  Gospel 
has  been  restored,  and  that  they  are  messengers  bearing  the  authority  of 
the  living  God  in  representing  these  keys  and  giving  this  message  to  the 
world. 

I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  priesthood  and  the  authority  that  is  in  this 
Church.  I  rejoice  with  you  in  the  leadership  thereof. 

It  is  my  prayer  that  we  shall  ever  be  found  in  harmony  with  it.  I  hope 
the  day  will  never  come  when  I  shall  be  without  responsibility  in  this 
Church,  because  it  is  the  one  thing  that  will  keep  us  safe,  that  will  keep 
us  in  the  paths  of  truth  and  righteousness  and  that  will  make  of  us  ser- 
vants of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  enable  us  to  do  his  will  here  upon  the 
earth. 

I  rejoice  in  the  inspiration  that  has  come  to  us  today  and  yesterday 
through  the  previous  speakers.  I  only  hope  that  through  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  I  shall  be  able  to  carry  this  enthusiasm  and  these  messages  back  to 
our  missionaries — and  that  we  may  spread  it  to  the  people  with  whom  we 
are  called  to  labor. 

I  would  like  to  say  to  the  parents  who  are  sending  missionaries  into 


ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS 


79 


the  mission  field  that  the  people  among  whom  we  labor  are  some  of  the 
finest  people  that  inhabit  the  earth.  They  are  a  kindly  people.  It  is  true 
they  are  meek,  but  I  am  reminded  that  in  Matthew,  the  Savior  speaking 
on  the  mount,  is  there  reported  to  have  said:  "Blessed  are  the  meek  for 
they  shall  inherit  the  earth." 

I  am  wondering  if  this  has  any  significance  when  applied  to  the 
Lamanite  race.  I  believe  that  it  has.  They  are  humble ;  they  are  meek ; 
they  are  in  humble  circumstances.  They  have  been  a  down  trodden  people 
for  many  generations  and  yet  back  of  all  that  are  the  promises  contained 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  to  Lehi  and  his  family  when  they  were  guided  to 
this  land,  that  it  was  to  be  a  land  of  promise  to  them  and  their  posterity 
forever — a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands. 

Is  it  possible  that  the  day  is  at  hand  now  when  those  promises  will 
be  fulfilled  and  when  this  meek,  down-trodden  people  will  inherit  the 
earth?  I  hope  so.  I  believe  that  it  is  here.  If  you  could  see  what  the  Gos- 
pel is  doing  for  this  people,  how  it  lifts  them  out  of  bondage  and  raises 
them  to  new  heights,  I  am  sure  you  would  feel  as  I  do  the  thrill  that 
comes  to  those  who  see  the  lives  of  these  people  and  the  transformation 
that  comes  to  them  through  the  blessings  of  the  Gospel. 

It  is  my  desire  to  work  earnestly  and  faithfully  to  discharge  our  obli- 
gations, to  carry  this  message  to  this  people,  that  in  the  own  due  time  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  these  blessings  will  come  to  them,  that  these  prom- 
ises may  be  fulfilled,  that  they  may  return  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Gospel 
and  that  they  might  again  become  a  white  and  delightsome  people,  full 
of  truth  and  zeal  and  of  the  energy  and  the  faith  that  was  exhibited  during 
their  periods  of  faithfulness  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  times. 

I  want  to  say  to  you  that  when  the  Gospel  has  reached  them  and 
touched  their  hearts  there  is  not  a  more  faithful  people,  a  more  diligent 
and  obedient  people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  than  are  these  Mexican 
or  Lamanite  people,  because  they  strive  earnestly  day  and  night  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  gain  more  knowledge  and  a  greater 
testimony  and  they  are  really  enjoying  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 

It  is  a  significant  fact  that  although  some  missionaries  from  distant 
points,  who  are  not  acquainted  with  the  Lamanite  people,  feel  that  they 
would  rather  go  to  some  other  mission,  they  feel  that  this  people  is  not 
worthy,  possibly,  of  their  attention,  but  they  all  testify  after  a  few  months 
in  the  mission  field  and  after  becoming  acquainted  with  this  people,  that 
they  are  thankful  to  their  Father  in  heaven  that  they  are  permitted  to 
labor  as  missionaries  among  this  people  and  take  to  them  the  message  of 
the  Gospel. 

I  pray  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  to  continue  with  us  throughout  the 
remaining  sessions  of  this  conference  and  that  we  may  go  back  to  our 
homes  and  our  various  fields  of  labor,  filled  with  the  Spirit  of  the  Al- 
mighty and  carry  to  them  the  messages  that  we  have  received  here  from 
our  leaders,  and  I  pray  that  we  as  a  people  will  always  be  found  sustain- 
ing our  leaders,  not  only  by  word  of  mouth  but  upholding  their  hands  in 
every  way  possible  through  our  work  and  faith,  that  we  may  sustain 


80 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


them  that  they  may  carry  on  the  tremendous  burdens  that  are  upon  their 
shoulders. 

I  thank  my  Father  in  heaven  every  day  for  the  acquaintance  I  have 
with  the  leaders  of  this  Church,  that  he  has  permitted  me  to  become  ac- 
quainted with  them  and  receive  of  their  confidence  and  respect. 

I  pray  for  his  blessings  upon  them  and  upon  all  of  us,  and  I  do  it  in 
the  name  of  his  son,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

Vocal  solo,  "I  Will  Extol  Thee,  My  God,  O  King,"  by  Rosa  Sher- 
anian. 

BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

It  is  a  source  of  gratitude,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  in 
this  conference  and  enjoy  the  good  instructions,  the  spirited  remarks  and 
the  beautiful  music  that  we  have  heard.  I  rejoice  in  the  splendid  spirit  and 
the  very  good  counsel  that  has  been  given  us  throughout  the  entire  ses- 
sions. I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  attend  me  in  what  I  may  say. 

THE  PRESIDENT  AN  AMBASSADOR  OF  GOOD  WILL 

I  am  very  happy  in  the  excellent  health  that  President  Grant  enjoys. 
To  hear  his  clear  ringing  voice  and  see  his  alert,  vigorous,  active  person- 
ality in  his  eightieth  year  is  certainly  interesting  and  remarkable,  and  a 
source  of  satisfaction,  I  am  sure,  to  every  member  of  the  Church.  He  is 
a  powerful  ambassador  of  good  will  among  the  people  of  this  nation  in 
promoting  friendship  and  removing  prejudice,  overcoming  ill-will  and 
misunderstanding  regarding  this  great  work  in  which  we  have  part.  He 
is  doing  an  important  work  in  that  respect,  and  in  his  visits  in  the  various 
wards,  and  dedicating  meeting  houses,  the  people  of  the  Church  are  hav- 
ing the  opportunity  of  coming  in  contact  with  him  to  a  greater  extent, 
possibly,  than  with  any  other  President  since  the  Church  has  grown  so 
extensively. 

WAYS  AND  MEANS  OF  REMOVING  PREJUDICE 

There  are  various  means  that  are  being  developed  and  have  been 
developed  in  the  Church  that  are  helping  materially  in  removing  prejudice 
and  giving  the  people  of  this  nation  and  other  nations  a  much  better 
understanding  of  what  this  people  actually  believe, — what  they  stand  for, 
— what  their  habits  are  and  what  their  desires  and  purposes  and  ideals  are. 

BUREAU  OF  INFORMATION  TEMPLE  SQUARE 

These  things  have  been  mentioned  in  part  during  this  conference. 
One  of  these  is  the  Bureau  of  Information  on  this  Temple  Square.  Dur- 
ing the  past  summer  there  have  been  more  than  250,000  visitors  in  our 
midst  who  have  come  to  the  Square  and  have  received  information  re- 
garding the  history  and  the  ideals  of  this  people,  and  have  become  friends. 


BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


81 


A  great  work  is  being  done  as  can  be  declared  by  those  who  live  in  other 
sections  who  have  been  here  and  whose  minds  have  been  changed  toward 
this  people  in  many  respects  and  have  come  to  have  a  better  understand- 
ing of  our  principles  and  motives. 

TABERNACLE  BROADCASTS 

Another  means,  as  has  been  stated,  is  the  regular  weekly  broadcast 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ,  and  other  broadcasts,  such  as  the 
Church  of  the  Air  in  which  we  participate  from  time  to  time — and  other 
programs  over  the  air.  They  are  all  very  helpful  in  overcoming  prejudice 
and  promoting  good  will. 

CHURCH  HISTORICAL  MONUMENTS 

In  addition,  the  various  monuments  and  places  of  historical  interest, 
such  as  the  Hill  Cumorah,  the  Joseph  Smith  Home  at  Palmyra,  the  Jos- 
eph Smith  Birthplace  in  Vermont,  and  Winter  Quarters,  are  all  proving 
very  attractive  to  many  visitors.  They  are  helpful  means  of  teaching  the 
remarkable  history  of  this,people  and  the  foundations  of  our  faith. 

LIMITED  EFFORTS  OF  INDIVIDUAL  MISSIONARIES 

It  is  remarkable,  also,  what  development  is  taking  place  in  ways  and 
means  of  promulgating  our  message  of  good  will  and  peace  not  only 
throughout  this  nation  but  in  other  places.  When  I  was  on  my  first  mis- 
sion some  thirty-seven  years  ago  in  the  farthest  corner  of  Belgium,  in 
common  with  other  missionaries,  I  used  every  available  means  to  make 
known  our  message :  tracting,  conversations,  holding  meetings,  etc.  We 
held  meetings  both  in  French  and  in  German  among  the  people  who  were 
living  there.  We  visited  those  who  would  permit  us  to  enter  their  homes 
and  held  cottage  meetings ;  and  yet  I  thought  at  that  time  that  my  efforts 
were  relatively  limited  in  trying  to  get  this  message  before  the  millions  of 
people.  In  that  little  country  of  Belgium  alone  there  were  several  million 
people  at  that  time.  I  suppose  it  is  the  most  densely  populated  country  in 
Europe — over  640  people  per  square  mile, — a  nation  that  exemplifies  the 
bee-hive.  It  doesn't  have  that  motto,  but  it  is  honey-combed  with  indus- 
tries of  all  kinds,  and  the  people  there  are  generally  very  busy. 

SCIENTIFIC  DEVELOPMENTS  IN  COMMUNICATION 

When  I  read  and  declared  the  fulfilment  of  the  promise  made  by 
the  Apostle  John  that  an  angel  should  come  forth  "having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation, 
and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people,"  it  seemed  to  me  an  almost  over- 
whelming task  to  undertake.  I  could  not  see  how  it  could  be  accomplished. 
In  the  thirty-seven  years  that  have  elapsed  since  that  time  I  have  come  to 
realize  more  fully,  particularly  recently,  that  there  are  ways  and  means 
being  provided  whereby  this  Gospel  of  peace  can  be  declared  in  a  very 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


much  wider  circle  and  in  a  very  much  wider  range  than  has  been  the  case 
heretofore. 

GREATER  PROGRESS  IN  PROSPECT 

We  are  on  the  eve  of  greater  developmnets.  At  the  present  time,  for 
instance,  we  have  an  offer  to  install  a  television  transmitter  in  this  city ; 
and  while,  of  course,  it  is  new  and  is  experimental  in  a  sense,  and  its 
range  is  relatively  small — about  twenty-five  or  thirty  miles,  and  the  re- 
ceiving sets  are  rather  expensive — it  is  an  indication  of  additional  means 
whereby,  not  only  the  voice,  but  the  face  and  figure  of  the  one  who  may 
be  speaking  can  be  shown  successfully  over  considerable  areas. 

MESSAGES  TO  BE  CONVEYED  TO  THE  ENDS  OF  THE  EARTH 

Likewise,  the  matter  of  developing  increased  power  for  broadcasting 
is  at  our  very  door.  Almost  at  this  moment  in  the  City  of  Washington, 
the  Federal  Communications  Commission  is  holding  a  hearing  on  applica- 
tions from  some  of  the  largest  stations  in  this  country  to  increase  the 
power  under  which  .they  operate,  ten  times  as  much  as  the  power  that  is 
now  being  used  generally  throughout  the  country.  The  result  of  such 
increase  cannot  be  calculated  at  the  present  time.  Not  only  that,  but  the 
use  of  what  is  known  as  a  short  wave,  quite  different  in  its  range,  although 
it  is  of  the  same  character,  an  electrical  wave  for  the  conducting  of  mes- 
sages to  the  very  ends  of  the  earth,  is  being  developed.  So,  I  can  appreci- 
ate in  a  larger  measure  that  means  and  ways  will  be  made  available  for 
the  great  missionary  work  we  are  now  doing  and  that  is  to  be  done  in  the 
future,  both  in  the  world  at  large  and  in  the  various  localities  where  Saints 
are  established  in  the  stakes  and  wards ;  and  that  the  Lord  will  fulfil  his 
purposes. 

GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  rejoice  in  all  of  these  things.  I  rejoice  in  the  growth  of  the  Church 
as  it  has  been  described  by  President  Grant.  I  just  happen  to  remember 
that  recently  in  the  Christian  Herald,  a  publication  that  circulates  widely 
throughout  this  nation,  comparisons  were  shown  for  last  year  of  the 
growth  of  the  various  churches.  By  the  way,  may  I  state  that  it  is  shown 
in  the  article  in  that  publication  that  the  Christian  churches  of  the  United 
States  are  growing  faster  than  the  population  of  the  country,  so  that 
Christian  membership  is  increasing  throughout  this  nation. 

Among  other  things  it  is  shown  that  there  are  thirty-three  church 
groups  that  have  a  population  of  over  50,000  each ;  and  in  those  groups 
the  Latter-day  Saint  group  is  twelfth  in  number.  We  have  advanced 
from  fourteenth  place,  in  recent  years,  to  twelfth ;  and  our  percentage  of 
membership  gain  for  1935  is  more  than  double  the  average  of  that  group 
of  thirty-three  and  the  highest  of  the  twelve.  In  percentage  gain  we  are 
among  the  highest  of  the  thirty-three  groups.  In  the  past  nine  years  our 
percentage  gain  is  nearly  twice  the  average  of  the  thirty-three  groups. 


BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


83 


IMPROVEMENT  IN  TITHEPAYING 

As  stated  by  the  President,  also,  evidences  of  the  faith  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  are  shown  by  the  improvement  made  in  various  tem- 
poral activities — notably  in  the  observance  of  the  principle  of  tithing.  I 
am  sure  that  through  the  appeals  and  the  instructions  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency as  well  as  through  the  improved  general  economic  conditions,  and 
better  crops  and  prices  in  the  farming  districts,  there  has  been  a  material 
increase  in  the  tithes  for  the  first  six  months  of  this  year,  which  is  the 
latest  report  that  we  have,  as  compared  with  the  same  period  of  last 
year.  This  amounts  to  approximately  twenty  per  cent  increase  in  tithing. 
In  regard  to  the  number  of  tithepayers,  there  has  been  an  increase  of 
about  ten  per  cent  showing  that  those  who  are  observing  the  principle  of 
tithing  are  paying  largely  in  proportion  to  their  increased  income.  Re- 
garding farm  crops  and  prices,  it  is  well  to  remember  that  the  agricultural 
industry  is  a  very  important  factor  in  our  economic  welfare.  When  farm 
crops  are  good  and  prices  are  normal  the  nation  prospers.  During  many 
years  past,  whenever  prices  of  farm  products  have  been  at  normal  level, 
economic  conditions  have  been  favorable. 

OBSERVANCE  OF  FASTING  AND  FAST  OFFERINGS 

In  regard  to  the  matter  of  improvement  in  the  observance  of  fast 
offerings,  of  course,  there  have  been  only  about  three  months,  as  shown 
by  the  report,  since  the  instruction  and  encouragement  given  by  the  First 
Presidency ;  but  the  fast  offerings  have  increased  for  the  first  six  months 
of  this  year  forty  per  cent  as  compared  with  the  same  period  last  year, 
and  the  number  who  have  paid  fast  offerings  has  increased  forty-one  per 
cent.  There  has  been  an  increase  in  per  capita  of  practically  the  same 
proportion.  One  of  the  interesting  evidences  of  what  can  be  done  with 
regard  to  fulfilling  the  request  of  the  First  Presidency  that  there  be  not 
less  than  one  dollar  paid  during  the  year  per  capita  of  the  Church  mem- 
bership by  all  members  of  the  Church  is  shown  by  one  ward,  at  least,  in 
the  Church,  during  the  past  four  or  five  years.  That  is  the  San  Francisco 
ward  of  the  San  Francisco  stake.  For  the  past  five  years,  they  have  had 
an  average  of  over  one  dollar  per  capita  of  Church  membership  in  that 
ward ;  and  it  is  a  ward  that  is  made  up  largely  of  wage  earners  and  people 
who  are  engaged  in  daily  labor  and  earning  moderate  amounts. 

WHAT  FAST  OFFERING  REPRESENTS 

The  fast  offering,  of  course,  is  intended  to  serve  two  purposes:  the 
first  is  that  it  represents  the  fasting  of  the  members  of  the  Church, — the 
abstaining  from  two  meals, — and  the  attendance  at  fast  and  testimony 
meeting.  The  people  are  strengthened  spiritually  through  such  fasting, 
praying,  and  testimonies.  Secondly,  in  recognition  of  the  needs  of  those 
who  are  not  so  fortunate  as  they,  that  they  give  the  equivalent  in  value 
of  those  two  meals.  Thereby,  they  suffer  no  financial  loss  and  they  gain 
a  great  spiritual  benefit.  That  is  the  true  spirit  of  the  observance  of  fast 
offering. 


84 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


It  is  reported  to  us  that,  in  some  instances,  in  order  to  make  a  better 
record,  bishops  have  encouraged  the  giving  of  funds  or  obtaining  of 
funds  to  be  credited  to  their  ward  that  do  not  represent  the  individual 
giving  by  the  head  or  the  members  of  the  family.  We  would  suggest  that 
the  spirit  of  this  principle  and  the  manner  of  observance  should  be  care- 
fully followed.  It  is  for  the  spiritual  benefit  of  all  Church  members  as 
well  as  for  the  aid  of  those  who  are  in  need,  and  should  be  carried  out  in 
the  spirit  thereof  as  instructed  by  the  First  Presidency. 

EXTENT  OF  RELIEF 

Now,  with  regard  to  the  matter  of  relief  extended :  There  were 
about  16,100  people,  as  I  remember  it,  who  were  assisted  by  the  bishopric 
and  the  Relief  Society  of  the  various  wards  during  the  past  six  months, 
which  is  approximately  three  hundred  fifty  less  than  a  year  ago  for  the 
same  period.  The  tithes  expended  in  the  relief  of  the  poor  throughout  the 
Church  have  increased  during  the  past  six  months  as  compared  with  the 
first  six  months  of  1935 — about  31  per  cent.  In  addition  to  the  tithes 
expended,  of  course,  there  are  the  fast  offerings  and  the  help  extended  by 
the  Relief  Society.  The  total  expended  for  relief  by  the  Church  increased 
about  11  per  cent. 

There  appears  to  be  some  misunderstanding  in  Utah  regarding  the 
Federal  appropriations.  The  so-called  "dole"  was  abandoned  in  1935 
and  replaced  by  work  relief  for  all  able-bodied  persons  in  need,  and  by 
direct  relief  for  those  who  are  incapacitated. 

SPLENDID  EFFORTS  OF  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

I  rejoice  in  the  good  report  that  has  been  given  and  in  the  work  that 
has  been  accomplished  during  the  past  few  months  under  the  Security 
Plan.  There  has  been  a  prompt  and  active  response  throughout  the 
Church  to  the  appeal  of  the  First  Presidency  made  at  the  April  Confer- 
ence. I  would  like  to  express  particular  appreciation  to  the  Relief  Society 
throughout  the  Church  for  the  splendid  work  they  have  done.  Their  will- 
ingness to  sacrifice  and  the  energy  they  have  put  into  the  work  that  has 
been  entrusted  to  them  of  doing  so  much  for  the  welfare  of  the  poor  is 
very  praiseworthy. 

In  many  cases,  these  women, — housewives,  mothers  in  homes,  of- 
ficers of  the  Relief  Society, — have  given  a  tremendous  amount  of  service. 
In  fact,  according  to  the  reports  that  come  to  us,  some  of  them  are  al- 
most worn  out,  because  of  the  service  they  have  given.  Of  course,  it  is 
expected  and  intended  that  as  many  as  possible  of  those  in  need  who  are 
to  get  the  benefit  should  contribute  of  their  labor  for  the  accomplishment 
of  these  things — the  securing  of  food  and  taking  care  of  it  and  the  pro- 
viding of  clothing  and  bedding  and  things  of  that  kind.  Everyone  who 
expects  to  get  relief  should  work  for  it. 


BISHOP  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


85 


SELF-SACRIFICE  OF  STAKE  AND  WARD  OFFICERS 

In  this  great  undertaking  I  have  been  greatly  impressed  and  filled 
with  appreciation  for  the  devotion  and  the  fine  spirit  shown  by  the  stake 
presidencies  and  the  ward  bishoprics  throughout  the  Church.  Their  will- 
ingness to  serve, — busy  men  as  they  are,  having  their  own  living  to  earn, 
volunteering  their  services  so  readily  to  the  Church — is  admirable.  They 
have  given  their  time,  sometimes  at  the  sacrifice  of  their  own  occupations, 
in  order  to  carry  out  the  request  of  the  First  Presidency  in  this  work 
which  we  are  undertaking.  I  pray  the  Lord  to  bless  and  sustain  them.  I 
appreciate  always  the  service  of  these  men  who  are  called  to  preside,  be- 
cause the  heavy  burden  of  this  responsibility  rests  primarily  upon  the 
bishop  and  the  stake  president  and  they  give  that  service  willingly  and 
freely. 

SPIRITUAL  WELFARE  OF  OUR  CHILDREN 

There  is  one  other  thing  I  would  like  to  mention,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  and  that  is  this :  We  are  all  concerned  with  the  spiritual  welfare 
and  the  training  of  our  children.  They  are  a  source  of  blessing  to  us  if 
we  train  them  and  teach  them  in  righteousness.  If  we  fail  by  example  and 
precept  to  stimulate  them  in  high  principle  and  right  living,  they  may  be 
the  cause  of  sorrow  and  remorse  to  us.  A  great  responsibility  rests  upon 
us  as  parents.  These  souls  are  precious  in  the  sight  of  God.  We  should 
recognize  their  true  worth,  and  do  our  utmost  for  their  proper  develop- 
ment. We  have  a  rare  privilege  in  the  Church  and  that  is  the  opportunity 
of  receiving,  enjoying  and  serving  in  the  priesthood.  That  is  the  very 
foundation  of  the  Church, — the  source  of  its  divinity.  I  am  concerned, 
of  course,  for  the  girls  as  well  as  for  the  boys,  but  primarily  my  responsi- 
bility concerns  the  boys  who  may  receive  the  priesthood.  I  realize  that 
through  the  encouragement,  the  help,  and  the  inspiration  of  the  parents, 
the  boys  who  should  receive  the  priesthood  can  become  worthy  to  receive 
it  and  be  inspired  and  encouraged  to  carry  on  their  responsibilities  in  that 
priesthood. 

TRAINING  IN  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

That  is,  primarily,  the  parents'  responsibility.  In  addition  thereto 
the  various  auxiliaries — the  Primary  Association,  the  Sunday  School, 
the  Mutual  organizations,  and,  of  course,  the  priesthood  leaders  them- 
selves— are  helping  materially  in  the  teaching  and  training  of  these  young 
men.  I  feel  that  of  all  things  that  are  of  concern  in  this  Church,  the  train- 
ing and  welfare  and  development  of  these  young  men  in  the  spirit  and 
power  of  the  priesthood  is  of  first  importance.  They  are  the  hope  for  the 
future  progress  of  the  Church.  In  order  to  best  qualify  these  young 
men  for  the  greatest  good,  they  are  entitled  to  have  systematic  teaching 
and  training  under  inspired  leadership,  and  to  perform  regularly  all  the 
varied  duties  of  their  callings  in  willingness  and  the  spirit  of  true  service. 
I  think  we,  as  leaders  of  the  Church  in  the  various  divisions  thereof, 


86 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ought  to  give  great  consideration  to  the  advancement,  welfare  and  func- 
tioning of  these  young  men  in  the  various  labors  and  duties  that  they  are 
called  to  fulfil,  that  they  may  measure  up  to  high  standards  and  get  the 
spirit  of  the  priesthood.  The  youth  of  the  Church  will  qualify  if  only  we 
give  them  the  proper  leadership.  Shall  we  accept  this  challenge? 
"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn  his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office 
in  which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence."  (D.  &  C.  107:99). 

May  the  power  and  spirit  and  blessing  of  the  Lord  attend  us  all,  I 
pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  sorry  that  we  have  not  time  enough  to  hear  addresses 
of  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes  each  from  the  brethren  of  the  First  Council 
of  the  Seventy,  but  we  shall  have  to  ask  them  to  limit  their  remarks  to  ten 
minutes. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

The  most  blessed  thing,  and  the  greatest  thing,  that  has  ever  come  to 
mankind  in  all  the  history  of  the  race  since  the  dawn  of  creation  is  the 
Gospel  of  the  Lord,  Jesus  Christ.  There  is  nothing  of  so  great  importance 
to  every  one  of  us  as  to  make  a  practical  application  of  that  Gospel. 

It  is  for  that  purpose  that  we  have  been  placed  here  upon  this  earth, 
that  there  might  be  made  a  practical  application  of  those  principles  which 
have  within  them  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation,  power  to  bring  us  back 
to  God  from  whose  presence  we  have  wandered  far  away. 

These  principles  are  everlasting  and  eternal  in  their  very  scope.  I  am 
going  to  quote  a  few  things  in  regard  to  these  principles.  People  may 
wonder  and  think,  "Oh,  are  you  going  to  talk  about  faith  and  repent- 
ance?" Most  assuredly,  there  isn't  anything  else  to  talk  about.  The 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  gave  instructions  to  the  early  missionaries  of  this 
Church  that  they  should  speak  none  other  thing  to  this  generation  than 
repentance  of  sin. 

Faith  is  an  attribute  of  God.  Hope  is  a  divine  attribute.  Charity  is 
a  divine  attribute.  It  is  a  part  of  that  image  in  which  man  has  been  cre- 
ated. Every  one  of  those  attributes  form  a  part  of  the  image.  When  we 
read  in  the  scriptures,  "So  God  created  man  in  his  own  image,  in  the 
image  of  God  created  he  him,  male  and  female  created  he  them,"  it  means 
not  only  in  the  physical  image  of  God  but  in  all  of  his  divine  attributes. 

God  is  love  and  man  is  love.  There  is  love  in  every  human  creature. 
There  is  faith  in  heaven  and  there  is  faith  upon  the  earth.  There  is  faith 
in  man  ;  just  as  there  is  hope  and  charity  in  every  human  being.  No  man, 
however  savage  or  ignorant,  has  ever  been  discovered  without  these  di- 
vine attributes. 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


87 


We  have  inherited  all  of  these  divine  attributes  because  we  are  the 
children  of  God  in  very  deed,  and  so  man  is  made  in  the  image  of  God 
both  in  spirit  and  in  body,  in  physical  form  and  in  all  of  his  faculties ;  the 
difference  being  that  in  the  one  they  exist  in  their  perfection,  in  the  other 
in  very  imperfect  form.  And,  there  is  meaning  in  the  commandment  of 
the  Saviour  when  he  said:  "Be  ye  therefore  perfect,  even  as  your  Father 
in  heaven  is  perfect." 

If  we  ever  attain  to  those  divine  perfections,  it  will  be  because  we 
have  made  the  practical  application  of  those  principles  that  have  within 
them  the  power  of  God  unto  our  salvation.  Every  one  of  these  attributes 
is  susceptible  of  being  developed  and  made  perfect  through  the  applica- 
tion of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  the  most  blessed  thing,  the  greatest 
boon,  the  very  pearl  of  great  price  that  has  been  committed  to  men  for  the 
express  purpose  of  perfecting  their  lives  and  preparing  them  for  celestial 
glory.  To  accomplish  this  divine  purpose  God  made  this  earth  and  placed 
us  here  upon  it. 

Let  me  now  quote  a  few  passages  from  the  Apostle  Paul's  epistle  to 
the  Hebrews  ;  defining  faith,  he  says  : 

Now  Faith  is  the  substance  of  things  hoped  for,  the  evidence  of  things 
not  seen. 

What  wonderful  meaning  is  contained  in  these  words !  The  very 
substance  of  things  hoped  for,  the  essence  itself,  a  divine  attribute  and 
part  of  God. 

Faith  is  the  very  substance  of  "the  things  hoped  for."  What  are  we 
hoping  for?  If  we  are  hoping  for  the  sordid  things  of  the  world  or  for 
the  gratification  of  evil  desires  or  of  unworthy  ambitions,  then  our  faith 
is  likewise  bad.  If  our  hopes  are  evil,  then  our  faith  is  evil,  for  faith  is  the 
very  substance  of  our  hopes. 

People  who  devote  their  whole  lives  in  hoping  for  the  things  that  are 
evil  may  know  it  is  their  faith  that  is  guiding  them.  So  we  should  be  care- 
ful what  we  hope  for.  Faith  is  a  wonderful  principle. 

A  man  once  said  to  me — he  was  a  clergyman,  a  minister — he  was 
not  orthodox — he  made  this  statement ;  "You  have  one  principle  in  your 
Church  that  I  do  not  like."  This  man  that  I  am  speaking  of  was  a  learned 
man.  I  visited  him  in  his  home  in  his  large  living  room  that  was  literally 
lined  with  books  from  the  floor  to  the  ceiling,  a  man  of  scholarship,  schol- 
arly attainments.  He  said, 

"You  have  one  thing  that  I  do  not  like." 

"What  is  it?"  I  asked. 

"It  is  that  principle  you  call  faith." 

"What  is  the  matter  with  faith  ?" 

"Just  think  of  it,"  said  he,  "to  believe  anything  that  you  hear." 

What  a  misconception  he  had  of  faith.  He  had  no  conception  what- 
ever of  it.  Faith  doesn't  mean  to  believe  everything  you  hear.  The  Lord 
doesn't  want  us  to  believe  everything  we  hear.  He  does  not  want  us  to 
believe  lies  or  liars.  He  does  not  want  us  to  believe  falsehoods.  What 
does  he  want  us  to  believe  ? 


88 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


"Believe  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  thou  shalt  be  saved."  Believe 
the  Truth.  Believe  in  his  Gospel ;  his  Gospel  is  the  truth.  That  is  what 
the  Lord  wants  us  to  believe  and  he  has  not  left  us  without  the  means  of 
knowing,  for  the  spirit  of  Christ  has  been  given  to  every  man  that  he 
might  know  good  from  evil,  (B.  of  M.,  Moroni  7:16)  and  by  that  spirit 
we  know  when  we  are  doing  right  and  when  we  are  doing  wrong,  and  if 
our  hopes  are  right  and  if  our  deeds  are  right  then  we  know  what  we  shall 
believe.  We  shall  believe  the  truth  as  it  is  embodied  in  the  Gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Faith  is  a  principle  of  power,  for  we  read  in  the  same  Epistle, 
"Through  faith  we  understand  the  worlds  were  framed  by  the  word  of 
God."  What  was  that  word?  In  the  very  beginning,  "Let  there  be  light," 
and  the  whole  universe  was  ablaze  with  it,  and  the  worlds  were  framed 
by  his  unbounded  faith  and  his  almighty  word,  the  word  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  "All  energy  manifest  on  this  planet  is  transmitted  to  us  through 
the  light  of  the  sun,"  said  one  of  the  scientists  in  the  recent  world  congress 
in  Chicago.  Modern  revelation  informs  us  that  all  the  energy  of  the  uni- 
verse emanates  from  the  Light  of  Christ.  (D.  &  C.  88 :7-13). 

Again,  let  me  quote : 

"For  without  faith  it  is  impossible  to  please  God."  If  you  want  to 
please  God  you  must  have  faith.  "For  he  that  cometh  to  God  must  believe 
that  he  is  and  that  he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently  seek  him." 

Surely  no  man  will  bend  the  knee  in  humble  prayer  unless  he  has 
faith  in  God.  If  you  really  desire  to  please  God  then  seek  him  diligently 
and  your  faith  will  never  fail. 

There  are  many  people  who  foolishly  think  they  know  all  there  is 
about  faith  and  repentance.  As  a  matter  of  fact  such  people  are  totally 
ignorant  of  them.  A  prominent  teacher,  a  scholar  and  withal  a  fine  Latter- 
day  Saint,  once  said  to  me  that  he  would  like  to  have  something  new  to 
learn.  He  knew  all  there  was  about  faith  and  repentance ;  he  wanted  to 
study  something  else.  To  which  I  replied;  "If  you  know  all  about  these 
doctrines  then  there  is  nothing  else  that  we  can  teach  you,  for  they  include 
everything  that  there  is  to  learn." 

These  doctrines  are  all-inclusive;  they  enter  into  all  the  affairs  of 
men ;  into  every  thought  and  into  every  action.  They  have  to  do  with  all 
our  business  transactions,  all  our  amusements  and  recreations  and  indeed 
with  every  thought,  every  desire,  and  every  ambition  that  enters  into  the 
human  heart.  This  will  be  apparent  to  every  thoughtful  mind  when  we 
consider  the  fact  that  there  is  a  right  way  and  a  wrong  way  of  doing 
everything.  Good  and  evil  are  ever  present.  The  Spirit  of  Christ  is  given 
to  every  man  that  he  might  know  good  from  evil  (B.  of  M.,  Moroni 
7:16)  ;  but  the  devil  came  also;  the  necessary  opposition  which  places 
us  in  the  position  where  we  have  to  choose  whether  we  want  to  or  not. 
There  is  no  escape  from  this  responsibility  for  we  are  endowed  with  our 
own  free  agency,  without  this  there  could  be  no  progress.  There  is  no 
compulsion.  To  choose  the  good  is  faith — to  reject  the  evil  is  repentance. 
"Whomsoever  ye  list  to  obey  his  servant  ye  are" ;  therefore,  "Resist  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS  89 

devil  and  he  will  flee  from  you.  Draw  nigh  unto  God  and  he  will  draw 
nigh  unto  you."  Drawing  night  unto  God  is  faith — resisting  the  devil  is 
repentance.  These,  then,  should  be  the  governing  principles  of  all  human 
conduct.  Then  "Believe  on  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  thou  shalt  be 
saved." 

Now,  hope  follows  our  faith  be  it  good  or  evil.  What  should  we  hope 
for?  Surely  not  for  the  sordid  things  of  the  world  but  on  the  contrary 
for  the  triumph  of  God's  work  that  his  kingdom  may  come — his  will  be 
done  on  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven ;  for  a  life  beyond  the  grave  and  a  happy 
reunion  with  loved  ones  that  have  gone  before.  Yes,  let  us  hope  for 
eternal  life,  God's  greatest  gift  to  man.  Whence  come  such  hopes  as 
these?  Only  from  faith  in  God.  Who  inspires  us  with  these  exalted 
hopes  ?  Only  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus  Christ  who  overcame  death  and 
the  grave.  Then  true  and  living  faith  in  him,  which  is  only  manifest  in  the 
works  of  obedience  to  his  will,  is  the  very  substance  and  assurance  that 
God  gives  us  that  our  exalted  hopes  shall  surely  be  realized. 

Some  people  say  they  have  no  faith,  no  hope,  when  we  die  that  is  the 
end.  What  darkness  !  What  despair  !  How  I  pity  such  people. 

"Cease  every  joy  to  glimmer  on  my  mind, 

But  leave,  oh  leave  the  light  of  hope  behind,"  says  the  poet. 

Now  comes  charity,  the  greatest  of  all  the  divine  attributes.  "Though 
I  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men  and  angels,  and  have  not  charity  I  am 
become  as  a  sounding  brass  or  tinkling  symbol." 

The  biggest  thing  in  all  the  world,  then,  is  charity.  We  must  not 
confuse  that  with  what  we  call  almsgiving.  Almsgiving  is  very  truly  a 
part  of  charity  and  I  might  say  a  very  important  part  of  it,  but  charity 
goes  far  beyond  that.  It  means  to  give  all  that  we  have  and  all  that  we 
are,  our  whole  being,  and  even  life.  Christ  was  the  embodiment  of  that 
love  and  that  charity,  for  he  gave  his  life  and  suffered  on  the  cross  for 
the  whole  world,  and  "greater  love  hath  no  man  than  this,  that  he  lay 
down  his  life  for  his  friend." 

"Charity  is  the  pure  love  of  Christ,"  is  among  the  sayings  of  one  of 
the  prophets  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

"Now  abideth  faith,  hope  and  charity." 

Charity  never  faileth ;  but  whether  there  be  prophecies,  they  shall  fail ; 
whether  there  be  tongues,  they  shall  cease;  whether  there  be  knowledge, 
it  shall  vanish  away. 

For  we  know  in  part,  and  we  prophesy  in  part. 

But  when  that  which  is  perfect  is  come,  then  that  which  is  in  part 
shall  be  done  away. 

The  love  of  Christ  is  the  perfect  thing  that  will  supersede  everything 
else.  Then  cultivate  these  Christian  attributes,  these  divine  attributes. 
They  are  ours  to  develop ;  they  are  in  us,  a  part  of  our  nature.  Develop 
and  practice  them  by  seeking  the  Lord,  "if,  happily,  you  may  feel  after 
him  and  find  him,  for  he  is  not  far  distant  from  every  one  of  us,  for  in 
him  we  live,  and  move  and  have  our  being." 

God  help  us  to  do  so  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  crave  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  in  the  short  time  that  I  stand  before  you  I  may  be  able, 
under  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  to  give  utterance  to  a  thought 
or  two  that  I  have  had  in  my  mind  for  some  time. 

There  have  been  several  references  to  the  dedication  of  the  very 
wonderful  monument  at  Winter  Quarters.  It  was  my  good  fortune, 
together  with  my  wife,  to  be  numbered  with  that  party.  I  sat  under 
the  canopy  and  listened  to  the  wonderful  addresses  that  were  made  by 
our  own  leaders  and  the  leaders  of  the  State  that  was  host  to  us  on  that 
occasion.  I  had  very  many  interesting  thoughts  pass  through  my  mind 
as  that  program  unfolded.  The  outstanding  feature  of  it  all,  of  course, 
was  the  very  friendliness  of  the  people  who  were  receiving  us  and  bidding 
us  welcome,  a  very  great  contrast  to  the  condition  that  prevailed  at  the 
time  when  that  cemetery  in  which  we  were  dedicating  the  monument 
became  a  necessity. 

I  sat  right  behind  the  Governor  of  the  State  of  Nebraska  when 
the  President  of  the  Church  made  reference  to  the  fact  that  our  people 
had  been  driven  from  one  place  to  another  until  they  were  finally  forced 
to  occupy  Winter  Quarters  under  the  very  adverse  circumstances  which 
prevailed. 

The  Governor  turned  to  the  Mayor  and  said,  "We  must  remember 
that  that  was  twenty  years  before  the  State  of  Nebraska  came  into 
existence."  They  were  very  grateful  for  the  fact  that  they  had  not  been 
a  party  to  that  persecution. 

My  mind  went  back  to  the  organization  of  the  Church  and  the  very 
difficult  task  which  devolved  upon  the  Prophet  in  its  organization  in  the 
harmonizing  of  the  many  conflicting  attitudes  of  men  who  came  into 
the  Church  in  the  early  days.  His  was,  indeed,  a  herculean  task,  and 
he  did  his  duty  well  and  nobly.  I  am  quite  sure  that  without  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Lord  which  he  enjoyed  this  task  would  have  been  impossible. 
To  bring  from  the  many  nations  of  the  earth  the  people  that  he  did,  and 
to  crystallize  their  thoughts  into  a  unit  and  harmonize  them  in  their 
activities  was  indeed  a  tremendous  task,  and  he  did  it  well. 

It  brought  into  my  mind  a  picture  with  two  sides.  I  saw  on  the 
one  side  men  and  women  of  sterling  character,  firm  in  their  purpose, 
true  in  their  faith  and  courageous  in  sustaining  their  officers,  willing  to 
do  as  those  people  did  who  lie  buried  in  that  cemetery — to  lay  down 
their  lives  at  any  time  should  it  be  required.  I  am  sure  that  my  grand- 
father and  grandmother  stood  ready  to  do  that,  along  with  yours.  A 
faithful  people  they  were,  a  struggling  people,  trying  to  find  the  truth, 
or  to  live  according  to  the  truth  they  had  found,  and  do  their  full  duty. 

On  the  other  side  of  that  picture,  I  saw  a  smaller  number  perhaps 
of  people  who  had  come  into  the  Church  with  different  motives,  whose 
faith  was  not  of  the  same  high  and  pure  and  holy  character,  who  were 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


91 


avaricious,  ambitious,  and  designing  men  who  came  in  and  availed 
themselves  of  the  counsels  of  the  Prophet  and  the  leaders  of  the  Church 
only  to  misapply  them  and  turn  against  them.  I  believe  that  the  perse- 
cutions that  came  upon  the  people  were  largely  due  to  the  activity  of 
such  men.  So  the  Evil  One  came  in,  as  he  always  does,  and  opposed 
the  truth.   I  believe  that  to  be  an  actual  fact. 

I  believe  also  this  to  be  true :  that  there  is  a  way  to  bind  the  Devil — 
the  way  of  faith.  If  we  want  to  bind  him  up  and  bind  him  strong,  we 
will  unite  ourselves  together  in  a  solid  band,  with  a  single  purpose,  to 
sustain  our  leaders,  to  live  the  Gospel,  and  to  honor  God.  If  our  people 
at  that  time  had  been  a  unit  in  that  purpose,  had  there  been  no  opposi- 
tion and  no  treason  within  the  Church,  I  wonder  if  the  sacrifices  of 
Winter  Quarters  would  have  been  necessary.  I  believe  they  would  not. 
To  bear  me  out  in  that  statement,  I  am  going  to  read  just  one  or  two 
verses  from  the  105th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  who  have  assembled  yourselves  together  that 
you  miv  learn  my  will  concerning  the  redemption  of  mine  afflicted  people — 

Behold,  I  say  unto  ycu,  were  it  not  for  the  transgressions  rf  my  people, 
speaking  concerning  the  Church  and  not  individuals,  they  might  have  been 
redeemed  even  now. 

That  is  the  answer  to  that  question  in  my  mind.  If  they  had  been 
sufficiently  united,  sufficiently  of  one  mind  and  one  purpose,  had  they 
been  able  to  so  completely  eliminate  from  their  hearts  selfishness  and 
greed  and  avarice,  so  that  they  could  walk  together  with  their  arms 
around  each  other  in  that  unity  of  purpose,  then  the  redemption  of  the 
center  stake  of  Zion  would,  according  to  the  word  of  the  Lord,  have 
been  a  possibility. 

They  were  not  so  united,  unfortunately,  and  they  had  to  pay  the 
penalty  in  trouble  and  sorrow  and  death  to  learn  the  lesson.  Now  out 
of  those  experiences,  evidently,  we  have  learned  some  lessons,  because 
we  are  now,  I  believe,  a  more  united  people,  and  I  believe  that  that 
is  the  reason  the  Lord  turned  the  good  will  of  the  people  who  were 
once  our  enemies  to  us  and  that  we  are  now  enabled  to  be  friends  with 
them. 

That  does  not  mean  in  any  sense  that  we  tolerate  the  things  which 
we  deem  sin,  which  some  people  indulge  in  and  which  we  try  to  eliminate 
from  our  midst — not  by  any  means.  But  it  does  mean  that  we  can  be 
charitable  towards  them,  that  we  can  lend  them  the  hand  of  fellowship 
and  assistance  where  it  is  possible. 

We  are  faced  with  a  problem  right  now.  The  Presidency  of  this 
Church  has  made  a  promise  to  the  people,  not  only  to  the  people  of  the 
Church  but  to  the  people  of  the  world,  and  we  have  the  problem  of  re- 
deeming that  promise.  It  will  be  possible  only  through  a  united  effort 
of  this  people.  If  there  be  those  among  us  who  go  around  sowing  the 
seeds  of  dissension,  distrust  and  criticism  of  their  policies,  success  will 
not  be  so  great.    But  if  we  can  eliminate  from  our  hearts  all  distrust 


92 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  attack  our  problem  with  a  sympathetic  urge  and  an  interest  in  its  ac- 
complishment the  world  will  see  this  people  redeem  that  pledge. 

I  trust  that  we  may  rally  to  it,  every  man  and  woman  of  us,  that  we 
may  show  the  world  that  there  is  in  this  Church  a  power  in  the  priesthood 
which  is  active,  vigorous,  and  will  endure. 

God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  to  be  able 
to  attend  this  conference  and  listen  to  the  testimonies  that  have  been 
borne.  The  addresses  that  have  been  made  have  all  been  for  our  good 
and  benefit. 

The  longer  I  live  the  more  I  am  convinced  that  the  Lord,  our  God, 
has  a  planned  program  and  that  he  is  anxious  that  it  be  taught  to  his 
children  in  their  daily  walks  of  life.  I  am  sure  that  the  Savior  had  received 
this  plan  from  his  Father  when  he  said:  "My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but 
his  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

I  think  the  scriptures  are  absolutely  correct  in  their  teachings  con- 
cerning the  great  work  which  our  Father  intended  should  be  done  by  his 
sons  and  his  daughters.  Men  and  women  were  known  of  him  long 
before  the  foundation  of  this  earth  was  laid.  He  knew  them  and  gave 
them  promises  upon  their  obedience,  as  a  result  of  the  life  they  had 
lived. 

When  the  Lord  showed  unto  Abraham  the  intelligences  that  were 
created  before  the  world  was  organized  and  that  among  them  there  were 
many  of  the  noble  and  great  ones,  he  said :  "These  I  will  make  my  rulers. 
.  .  .  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them ;  thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast 
born." 

And  again  to  Jeremiah :  "Before  I  formed  thee  in  the  belly  I  knew 
thee  ;  and  before  thou  earnest  forth  out  of  the  womb  I  sanctified  thee,  and 
I  ordained  thee  a  prophet  unto  the  nations." 

I  think  we  knew  the  plan  that  was  to  be  brought  about  in  this  earth. 
There  were  great  men  and  undoubtedly  great  women  in  the  spirit  world, 
who  were  selected,  and  ordained  to  take  part  in  the  work  to  be  accom- 
plished for  the  salvation  of  men.  In  that  pre-mortal  state  men  and  women 
enjoyed  free  agency.  They  enjoyed  the  gift  of  intelligence  and  had  the 
power  to  choose  their  course,  and  through  faith  and  works  they  achieved 
success.  They  were  known  unto  the  Lord,  and  they  grew  and  developed 
in  character  under  the  leadership  and  under  the  planning  of  God.  They 
were  to  be  prophets  when  they  came  into  the  world.  They  were  to  be 
leaders  of  men. 

We  find  that  in  this  dispensation  of  time  in  which  we  live  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  made  the  statement  that  every  missionary  who 
has  a  call  to  go  into  the  world  was  ordained  to  that  calling  before  the 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION  93 

world  was.  And  that  tells  me  that  those  men  had  an  understanding  of  the 
plan  of  God  so  far  as  they  had  lived  it,  and  that  they  were  given  the  right 
and  the  privilege  of  coining  into  the  world  to  preach  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  and  to  bear  testimony  to  the  children  of  men  concerning 
the  great  plan  of  God.  This  plan,  fully  substantiated  in  Holy  Writ,  is 
taught  by  this  Church,  and  all  men  and  women  need  only  to  make 
investigation  of  it. 

I  hope  and  pray  that  the  honest  in  heart  may  be  reached,  that  they 
may  be  led  to  conclude  that  this  is  not  the  beginning  of  men's  strength 
or  ability,  but  that  the  Lord  God  gave  them  strength, — his  strength  and 
his  power, — and  planned  for  them  to  take  a  part  in  the  great  program 
that  he  would  establish  in  these,  the  last  days. 

I  think  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  carrying  out  the  program  of 
God.  There  is  faith  in  the  Church  and  diligence.  There  is  power  among 
men  where  they  stand  together,  as  this  people  stand  together,  for  the 
things  that  are  taught  them  by  the  leaders  of  the  Church.  They  become 
convinced  that  only  through  obedience  to  God  can  they  grow  or  can 
they  become  useful.  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  making  history — marvelous  history  in  this  dispensation  ;  the  leadership 
of  the  Church  has  been  inspired;  they  have  been  prepared  for  the 
emergencies  that  they  have  had  to  meet,  and  will  have  to  meet. 

I  recall  the  statement  that  President  Grant  made  yesterday  when 
he  told  of  how  he  and  Francis  M.  Lyman  took  horses  and  wagons, 
buggies,  etc.,  and  traveled  all  through  this  country  building  up  the  Church 
and  Kingdom  of  God — sleeping  on  the  ground,  taking  their  chances 
with  the  elements,  with  nothing  in  their  minds  but  the  fact  that  they 
were  called  of  God  to  build  up  and  establish  Zion  in  this  great  inland 
country.    They  planned  better  than  they  knew. 

The  Lord  has  produced  out  of  that  pair  of  missionaries  two  great 
men.  President  Lyman  through  the  powerful  testimony  he  bore  and  the 
great  work  he  accomplished  has  left  a  name  in  the  earth ;  and  President 
Grant,  who  stands  here  today  in  his  eightieth  year,  is  a  leader  directed 
by  the  inspiration  and  power  of  God.  He  is  given  strength  to  go  and 
come  and  to  speak  in  the  name  of  God,  thereby  reaching  the  hearts  of 
the  children  of  men.  It  is  faith-promoting  to  contemplate  such  lives 
as  those  of  these  two  men.  In  them  we  see  the  fulfilment  of  the  promises 
of  the  Lord. 

This  Gospel  is  the  plan  of  our  Eternal  Father.  His  program  will  be 
more  fully  revealed.  This  last  movement  (the  Church  Security  Plan), 
pertaining  to  us  temporally,  will  be  just  as  He  has  planned.  It  will  be 
made  a  method  by  which  our  Lord  will  introduce  the  thing  that  is  most 
needed  in  the  Church  and  in  the  world  at  large. 

I  pray  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  to  hold  us  together,  that  we  may 
be  cemented  as  one,  and  stand  together  as  his  sons  and  his  daughters, 
and  carry  on,  as  we  are  able  to  do,  his  purposes  in  the  earth.  May  we 
hold  up  the  hands  of  those  who  preside  over  us,  that  his  work  may  be 
effective  and  that  his  work  may  be  sure.  That  we  may  be  able  to  take 
part  in  it  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


94 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

As  you  all  are  aware,  Brother  Joseph  F.  Merrill  and  Brother  Richard 
R.  Lyman  are  absent  from  this  Conference,  also  Brother  Alonzo  A. 
Hinckley.  Brother  Lyman  is  presiding  over  the  European  Mission, 
having  succeeded  Brother  Merrill  who  is  on  his  way  home.  Elder 
Hinckley  has  returned  from  California  and  is  at  the  home  of  one  of  his 
daughters  in  this  city.  He  is  greatly  improved  in  health  and  is  gaining 
in  flesh.   He  is  on  the  high  road  to  recovery. 

The  Relief  Society  "Singing  Mothers"  sang  "Inflammatus"  (Ros- 
sini)— Margaret  Stewart  Hewlett,  soloist. 

Elder  Edward  J.  Wood,  President  of  the  Alberta  Temple,  offered 
the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Sunday  morning,  October  3. 


THIRD  DAY 

MORNING  MEETING 

Sunday  morning,  October  3,  1936. 

Long  before  the  time  arrived  for  commencing  the  fifth  session  of  the 
Conference  every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  audi- 
torium and  galleries  was  occupied,  and  thousands  of  people  assembled  on 
the  Temple  Block  and  in  the  large  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of 
the  Tabernacle,  where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been 
installed,  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings. 

The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock. 

President  Grant  announced  that  the  congregation  and  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  would  sing  the  hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth  ?" 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  George  E.  Jorgensen,  President  of  the  Carbon  Stake. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  the  audience  in  this  wonderful  building 
is  an  inspiration,  and  it  reminds  me  of  the  great  faith  and  confidence 
of  the  members  of  the  Church  in  its  divine  organization. 

IMPORTANCE  OF  SERVICE 

During  the  few  moments  that  I  shall  occupy  I  desire  to  call  your 
attention  to  what  I  think  is  of  the  greatest  importance  not  only  as 
affecting  the  Church  and  its  growth,  but  in  every  worthy  avocation  of 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


95 


life ;  that  is,  service — service  to  our  God,  service  to  our  country,  service 
to  the  family,  service  to  the  Church.  Without  such  service,  it  seems 
to  me,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  there  would  not  be  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people  a  full  knowledge  of  their  duty,  not  only  to  God  and  country,  and 
family,  and  the  Church,  but  to  all  the  activities  of  life  in  which  they 
become  engaged  or  interested. 

Service  to  our  God — I  doubt  whether  there  is  a  people  living  on 
the  earth  as  near  to  God  and  who  recognize  the  duty  that  they  owe  to 
our  Heavenly  Father  as  do  the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  am  proud  to  say 
that  I  doubt  whether  there  is  a  people — in  fact  I  am  positive  of  it — 
whose  loyalty  and  service  to  the  country  is  greater  than  that  of  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

We  believe  that  the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  was  an 
inspired  instrument  from  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  we  believe  in  being 
loyal  and  true  to  that  document  and  to  every  requirement  made  of  us  as 
citizens  of  the  greatest  country  in  the  world. 

We  believe  in  service  to  family,  one  of  the  great  and  important 
things  of  life.  I  sometimes  think,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  men 
of  affairs  give  less  attention  to  their  own  loved  ones  than  they  do  to 
public  interests.  I  hope  not,  I  pray  not,  but  I  am  fearful  that  some 
of  us  are  guilty  of  this.  There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  about  our 
loyalty  and  service  to  the  Church.  This  vast  audience  demonstrates 
beyond  question  of  doubt  your  loyalty,  and  we  know  of  your  service. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to  call  attention  this  morning 
to  some  of  the  fundamental  principles  that  should  be  in  the  lives  not  only 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  but  in  the  lives  of  honest,  devoted,  true  men 
and  women  no  matter  what  church  they  may  belong  to. 

THE  BURDEN  OF  DEBT 

We  are  living  in  a  day  of  extravagance,  and  I  might  say  not  only 
we  as  individuals  of  the  nation,  but  I  am  fearful  that  extreme  extrava- 
gance reaches  into  every  organization — city,  county,  state,  and  nation. 
I  know  how  hard  it  is  to  reduce  an  obligation,  even  that  of  the  govern- 
ment of  the  United  States.  At  the  close  of  the  World  War  our  govern- 
ment was  owing  $26,187,000,000.  For  ten  years  succeeding  that  time 
every  effort  was  made,  and  I  assure  you  that  everything  that  I  could  do 
as  chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee  and  the  ranking  member  of  the 
Appropriations  Committee,  was  done  to  raise  the  money  and  meet  the 
obligations  of  our  government.  It  took  ten  long  years  to  reduce  the 
government  indebtedness  to  $16,000,000,000.  Now  we  are  about  to 
enter  into  the  thirty  billions.  I  want  to  call  attention  to  that  fact,  not 
by  way  of  criticism,  but  to  emphasize  what  I  have  already  said,  that  in 
the  family,  I  care  not  where  that  family  may  be,  every  member  of  it, 
should  be  acquainted  with  what  the  head  of  the  family  receives,  and 
make  a  plan  to  live  within  that  income ;  and  I  am  going  to  add,  if  there 
is  any  possible  way  of  saving  a  little  each  year  do  that. 

We  do  not  know  what  is  coming;  we  do  not  know,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  altogether  what  obligations  we  will  be  called  to  meet,  but 


96 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  pray  you  to  keep  out  of  debt  if  it  is  possible  for  you  to  do  so.  I  may 
say  that  the  members  of  the  home  must  be  united  in  order  to  carry 
out  this  desirable  condition. 

THE  HUMBLE  HOME  OF  A  PRESIDENT 

I  remember  that  upon  one  occasion  I  was  asked  by  President 
Coolidge  to  attend  a  conference  to  consider  the  policy  to  be  adopted 
by  the  United  States  respecting  the  indebtedness  of  foreign  countries 
to  the  United  States.  The  meeting  was  held  at  his  father's  home.  I 
shall  never  forget  the  thoughts  I  had  when  I  was  called  to  the  boyhood 
home  of  the  President  to  consider  the  question  of  our  national  in- 
debtedness. It  was  built  scores  of  years  before,  and  as  I  ride  through 
the  different  settlements  of  our  state  and  look  at  some  of  the  humble 
homes  built  years  and  years  ago  I  say :  "There  was  a  home  of  a  President 
of  the  United  States  that  was  just  as  simple,  no  more  pretentious." 
Inside  the  home  the  fixtures  and  furniture  were  what  you  would  expect 
to  see  inside  a  home  in  any  of  our  little  towns  or  cities  within  our  own 
state.  It  taught  me  a  lesson,  and  I  then  understood  why  he  as  President 
of  the  United  States  watched  and  guarded  personally  every  item  of 
expense,  and  wherever  in  his  judgment  there  should  be  a  reduction  he 
never  hesitated  to  call  it  to  the  attention  of  the  Appropriations  Committee. 

So,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  few  words  that  I  have  said  in 
relation  to  the  matter  of  being  careful,  prudent,  and  saving  are  said 
in  the  hope  that  you  will  be  watchful  that  nothing  is  done  by  way  of 
extravagance  to  bring  a  debt  upon  yourself  and  loved  ones. 

A  PRAYER  FOR  BLESSINGS 

Father  in  heaven,  we  jointly  ask  of  thee  at  this  time  for  wisdom 
and  judgment  to  carry  on  thy  work,  and  may  we  all  be  loyal  and  true 
to  the  great  cause  that  we  have  espoused.  How  wonderful  has  been  its 
growth,  and  what  an  influence  for  good  it  is  to  be  in  the  future  and  in  the 
affairs  of  the  world  we  cannot  know,  but  we  do  know  that  it  is  going  to 
be  a  power  for  good.  God  grant  his  choicest  blessings  upon  the  Presi- 
dency of  this  Church.  Lead  and  guide  them  by  thy  Holy  Spirit,  that 
they  may  have  the  love,  and  the  honor,  and  the  respect  of  men  of  the 
world  who  are  honest  in  heart,  and  that  they  may  be  upheld  by  the 
prayers  of  the  people  of  this  Church,  that  they  may  be  one  united  body, 
with  one  thought  in  mind,  that  is :  God's  great  work  upon  this  earth,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

From  10:30  to  11:00  the  following  program  of  choral  and  organ 
music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  which  program 
was  broadcast  by  radio  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada  through 
the  courtesy  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  System,  originating  over 
Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City : 

"Glorious  Things  Are  Sung  of  Zion"  (Daynes) — Choir. 

"Prelude  to  the  Deluge"  (Saint  Saens) — Organ. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  97 

"Listen  to  the  Lambs"  (Dett) — Choir. 

"Toccata"  (Boellman) — Organ. 

"Music  When  Soft  Voices  Die"  (Dickinson) — Choir. 

"In  the  Forest"  (Durand) — Organ. 

"Worthy  is  the  Lamb"  (Handel) — Choir. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

At  the  conclusion  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast,  a 
thirty  minute  program  was  presented  on  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
System's  regularly  scheduled  Church  of  the  Air  series,  this  being  a 
nation-wide  broadcast.  The  radio  announcer  was  Richard  L.  Evans. 

The  program  opened  with  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congrega- 
tion joining  in  the  singing  of  the  hymn  "High  On  the  Mountain  Top." 

Elders  John  A.  Widtsoe  and  Melvin  J.  Ballard  were  the  speakers. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  second  greatest  question  of  life  was  asked  by  the  ancient  psalm- 
ist: "What  is  man,  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?"  In  importance,  this 
query  is  next  only  to  that  concerning  the  nature  of  God. 

Inability  to  answer  this  question  has  often  defeated  fervent  faith. 
The  correct  answer  has  enabled  men  and  nations  to  build  their  futures 
securely.  Faith  has  been  most  effective  when  accompanied  by  an  un- 
derstanding of  man's  relationship  to  Deity.  The  way  out  of  the  world's 
tragic  chaos — the  terror  of  poverty,  sickness  and  war — must  be  il- 
luminated by  a  comprehension  of  man's  nature  and  destiny. 

Man  is  one  of  the  eternal,  imperishable  realities  of  the  universe. 
His  story  begins  in  the  infinite  past,  before  the  earth  was  made.  His 
eternity  reaches  into  the  yesterdays  as  into  the  tomorrows.  He  belongs 
to  the  endless  ages. 

MAN  A  CHILD  OF  GOD 

In  the  beginning,  man  was  with  God,  a  child  of  God,  begotten  by 
Him.  He  has  a  divine  pedigree.  In  the  pre-existent,  spiritual  domain, 
as  a  son  or  daughter  of  the  divine  Father,  he  increased  in  knowledge 
and  power  and  grew  in  spiritual  stature.  At  length  he  was  prepared 
for  the  earth  career  and  willing  to  accept  its  conditions.  Man  is  not  an 
accidental  or  transient  invader  of  earth.  Instead,  he  is  a  creature  of 
plan  and  progress. 

As  a  child  of  God,  man  partakes  of  the  divine  nature  of  his  Father. 
Within  him  lie  germs  of  infinite  development.  Potentially  he  is  a  God- 
like being.  Therefore  he  may  rise  eternally  toward  the  likeness  of  his 
Father  in  heaven.   Upward,  divine,  unending,  is  man's  high  destiny. 

The  long  climb  of  man  from  the  dim  beginning  to  the  noble  present, 
came  from  self-effort  guided  and  directed  by  the  Lord.  His  future 
ascent  into  glorious  realms  beyond  human  understanding  will  likewise 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


result  from  his  own  strivings  and  struggles.  True,  man  "lives  and 
moves  and  has  his  being"  under  the  law  of  progression;  but  progress 
is  ever  an  inward,  not  an  outward  process.  His  increasing  progress  is 
not  imposed  upon  him;  salvation  is  a  cooperative  enterprise  between 
God  and  man. 

All  men  are  the  very  children  of  God.  They  are  brothers.  Every 
man,  however  humble,  of  whatever  race,  has  the  same  origin  and  possible 
destiny.  The  heavens  and  the  earth  were  made  and  the  plan  of  salvation 
was  provided  for  each  individual  member  of  the  human  family.  God  is 
not  a  partial  Father;  each  child  is  alike  in  his  love.  Since  the  plan  of 
salvation  is  for  all,  it  is  fully  consummated  only  when  it  has  been  accepted 
by  all.  Therefore  it  becomes  a  common  concern  to  save  every  soul. 
Hence  every  man  bears  a  direct  responsibility  for  his  brother. 

WERE  MAN'S  DIVINE  ORIGIN  AND  DESTINY  UNDERSTOOD 

Were  this  conception,  which  raises  the  individual  man  to  immeasur- 
able importance,  more  fully  comprehended,  there  would  come  great 
modification  of  man's  treatment  of  man.  The  inhumanity  of  man  to 
man  would  soon  vanish  from  the  earth.  The  law  of  the  beast  would  be 
replaced  by  the  law  of  God.  Love  would  triumph  over  hate.  The  record 
of  history  declares  that  nations  which  have  recognized  in  part  the  true 
nature  of  man,  have  prospered  most  and  survived  the  longest. 

Little  men  who  seek  to  take  advantage  one  of  another ;  rulers  who 
look  upon  their  people  as  pawns  in  a  game ;  nations  who  wantonly  toss 
thousands  into  battle  to  be  maimed  or  killed — these  would  falter  in  their 
evil  designs  before  a  knowledge  of  the  divine  origin  and  destiny  of  every 
human  being,  of  his  God-like  nature.  Righteousness  would  increase 
in  the  earth.  We  prattle  about  the  brotherhood  of  man,  but  true  fra- 
ternity can  be  realized  only  upon  the  acceptance  of  all  men  as  our  very 
brothers,  possessing  equal  rights  with  us.  There  should  be  a  compre- 
hension of  the  innate  greatness  of  every  dweller  on  earth,  of  the  possible 
attainment  by  the  humblest  man  of  an  infinitely  high  goal.  Such  knowl- 
edge, wide-spread  over  the  earth,  would  refine  individual  conduct,  make 
men  take  thought  before  action,  and  would  help  bring  about  peace,  the 
world's  greatest  need. 

INDIVIDUAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

A  sense  of  individual  responsibility  grows  out  of  an  understanding 
of  man's  relationship  to  other  men  and  to  God.  The  world  is  in  serious 
need  of  a  compelling  sense  of  personal,  individual,  responsibility.  As 
men  are,  so  is  the  social  group.  A  righteous  nation  is  but  the  assemblage 
of  righteous  men.  National  prosperity  is  but  the  sum  of  personal  pros- 
perity. When  each  man  sets  his  own  house  in  order,  the  whole  world 
will  be  in  order.  There  is  much  talk  of  governmental  or  other  organized 
provision  for  our  wants,  material  and  spiritual,  when  in  reality  our  great- 
est needs  must  be  satisfied  from  within  ourselves.  To  lean  upon  others 
for  support  enfeebles  the  soul.    By  self -effort  man  will  attain  his  high 


ELDER  MELVIN  7.  BALLARD 


99 


destiny.  It  cannot  be  placed  as  a  cape  upon  his  shoulders  by  others. 
Upon  his  own  feet  he  must  enter  the  kingdom  of  God,  whether  on  earth 
or  in  heaven.  By  conquest  of  self  he  shall  win  his  place  in  the  everlasting 
glory  of  God's  presence. 

"What  is  man  that  thou  art  mindful  of  him?"  He  is  a  very  son 
of  God,  endowed  with  God-like  power,  who,  if  he  respect  his  divine  origin 
and  high  destiny,  may  bring  to  pass  the  long  sought  reign  of  righteousness 
on  earth. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has  a  sacred 
mission  to  perform  in  the  world.  One  of  the  most  important  features 
of  that  mission  is  to  provide  new  witnesses  to  this  doubtful  and  skeptical 
generation  that  Jesus  is  indeed  the  Christ,  the  very  Son  of  the  living 
God,  who  died  for  men  and  is  still  interested  in  them  and  presides  under 
his  Father  over  the  destinies  of  this  world.  We  proclaim  with  John 
that  by  him,  as  the  Father's  representative,  was  the  world  made.  In 
the  character  of  Jehovah  before  he  dwelt  among  men  in  the  flesh,  he 
was  the  Spokesman  of  his  Father,  Elohim,  delivering  the  commandments, 
inspiring  the  prophets  and  ultimately  coming  to  dwell  among  men  in  the 
flesh,  thereafter  to  be  called  Jesus  Christ.  He  gave  himself  as  a  ransom 
to  save  the  world  and  mankind;  first,  from  the  consequences  of  the 
fall  which  brought  mortality  and  death.  He  brings  us  to  immortal  and 
eternal  life.  And  through  our  obedience  to  his  Gospel  he  redeems  us 
from  the  consequences  of  our  own  sins. 

But  his  interest  in  this  world  did  not  end  when  he  had  performed 
his  great  sacrifice.  He  is  the  Savior  of  all  men,  no  matter  where  or  when 
they  have  lived  upon  the  earth.  To  his  disciples  at  Jerusalem  he  said, 
"And  other  sheep  I  have,  which  are  not  of  this  fold :  them  also  I  must 
bring,  and  they  shall  hear  my  voice ;  and  there  shall  be  one  fold,  and  one 
shepherd."  (John  10:16)  It  is  generally  agreed  now  that  when  he  spoke 
those  words  there  was  a  mighty  multitude  of  people  living  in  this  western 
world.   He  was  their  Savior  and  knew  of  their  existence. 

A  TESTIMONY 

Prominent  among  the  witnesses  this  Church  produces  to  support  the 
testimony  of  the  disciples  at  Jerusalem  concerning  Christ  and  his  ministry 
is  the  testimony  of  a  nation  living  upon  this  western  hemisphere  which 
was  visited  by  him  after  his  resurrection.  Unto  them  he  said,  "Ye  are 
the  other  sheep  of  whom  I  spake."  Great  destructions  had  occurred  in 
this  land  at  the  crucifixion  of  Christ.  The  multitude  who  survived 
were  standing  about  one  of  the  temples  marveling  at  the  great  changes 
which  had  taken  place.  The  following  account  of  this  visit  is  recorded 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the  bible  of  America,  Third  Nephi,  11th 
chapter : 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


And  it  came  to  pass  that  while  they  were  thus  conversing  one  with 
another,  they  heard  a  voice  as  if  it  came  out  of  heaven ;  and  they  cast  their 
eyes  round  about,  for  they  understood  not  the  voice  which  they  heard ;  and 
it  was  not  a  harsh  voice,  neither  was  it  a  loud  voice ;  nevertheless,  and  not- 
withstanding it  being  a  small  voice  it  did  pierce  them  that  did  hear  to 
the  center,  insomuch  that  there  was  no  part  of  their  frame  that  it  did  not 
cause  to  quake;  yea,  it  did  pierce  them  to  the  very  soul,  and  did  cause 
their  hearts  to  burn. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  again  they  heard  the  voice,  and  they  under- 
stood it  not. 

And  again  the  third  time  they  did  hear  the  voice,  and  did  open  their 
ears  to  hear  it;  and  their  eyes  were  towards  the  sound  thereof;  and  they 
did  look  steadfastly  towards  heaven,  from  whence  the  sound  came. 

And  behold,  the  third  time  they  did  understand  the  voice  which  they 
heard ;  and  it  said  unto  them : 

Behold  my  Beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,  in  whom  I 
have  glorified  my  name — hear  ye  him. 

And  it  came  to  pass,  as  they  understood  they  cast  their  eyes  up  again 
towards  heaven ;  and  behold,  they  saw  a  Man  descending  out  of  heaven ; 
and  he  was  clothed  in  a  white  robe ;  and  he  came  down  and  stood  in 
the  midst  of  them ;  and  the  eyes  of  the  whole  multitude  were  turned 
upon  him,  and  they  durst  not  open  their  mouths,  even  one  to  another,  and 
wist  not  what  it  meant,  for  they  thought  it  was  an  angel  that  had  appeared 
unto  them. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  he  stretched  forth  his  hand  and  spake  unto 
the  people,  saying: 

Behold,  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the  prophets  testified  shall  come 
into  the  world. 

And  behold,  I  am  the  light  and  the  life  of  the  world ;  and  I  have 
drunk  out  of  that  bitter  cup  which  the  Father  hath  given  me,  and  have 
glorified  the  Father  in  taking  upon  me  the  sins  of  the  world,  in  the  which 
I  have  suffered  the  will  of  the  Father  in  all  things  from  the  beginning. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  when  Jesus  had  spoken  these  words  the 
whole  multitude  fell  to  the  earth ;  for  they  remembered  that  it  had  been 
prophesied  among  them  that  Christ  should  show  himself  unto  them  after 
his  ascension  into  heaven. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  Lord  spake  unto  them  saying : 

Arise  and  come  forth  unto  me,  that  ye  may  thrust  your  hands 
into  my  side,  and  also  that  ye  may  feel  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  my  hands 
and  in  my  feet,  that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  God  of  Israel,  and  the 
God  of  the  whole  earth,  and  have  been  slain  for  the  sins  of  the  world. 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  the  multitude  went  forth,  and  thrust  their 
hands  into  his  side,  and  did  feel  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and 
in  his  feet;  and  this  they  did  do,  going  forth  one  by  one  until  they  had  all 
gone  forth,  and  did  see  with  their  eyes  and  did  feel  with  their  hands,  and 
did  know  of  a  surety  and  did  bear  record,  that  it  was  he,  of  whom  it 
was  written  by  the  prophets,  that  should  come. 

And  when  they  had  all  gone  forth  and  had  witnessed  for  themselves, 
they  did  cry  out  with  one  accord,  saying: 

Hosanna !  Blessed  be  the  name  of  the  Most  High  God !  And  they 
did  fall  down  at  the  feet  of  Jesus  ,and  did  worship  him.  (3  Nephi  11 :3-17) 

SPENDS  THREE  DAYS 

Jesus  Christ  spent  three  glorious  days  with  the  peoples  of  America. 
He  organized  his  Church  and  taught  them  the  same  doctrine  he  had 
delivered  to  his  disciples  in  Jerusalem.  As  he  left  them  he  promised 
to  come  again.   This  historic  visitation  is  supported  by  the  traditions  of 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


101 


all  the  Indians  of  America  who  have  the  same  story,  that  their  fathers 
were  visited  a  long  time  ago  by  a  fair  God  who  taught  his  Gospel  and 
blessed  them,  promising  to  return  again.  The  conquest  of  Peru  and 
Mexico  by  a  handful  of  white  men  was  possible  because  of  this  tradition 
of  the  promised  return  of  the  white  God. 

And  now  another  witness  which  this  Church  furnishes  that  Jesus 
Christ  not  only  lives  but  that  he  is  deeply  interested  in  this  generation 
as  he  was  in  them  of  old  is  the  witness  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  that  on  the  third  day  of  April,  1836,  one  hundred  years  ago, 
in  the  Kirtland  Temple,  built  by  divine  command  to  provide  a  place 
for  the  Lord's  appearance,  the  following  event  occurred: 

A  VISITATION 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit, 
before  us ;  and  under  his  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure  gold,  in  color 
like  amber. 

His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the  hair  of  his  head  was  white 
like  the  pure  snow;  his  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness  of  the 
sun ;  and  his  voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing  of  great  waters, 
even  the  voice  of  Jehovah,  saying: 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last ;  I  am  he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain ; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants  110:2-4) 

PURPOSE  OF  VISIT 

He  further  announced  that  the  purpose  of  his  visit  and  the  sending 
of  prophets  of  ancient  times,  who  held  keys  of  authority,  was  to  inaugu- 
rate the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times  spoken  of  by  the  prophets, 
wherein  all  keys  and  authority  of  all  former  dispensations  were  to  be 
reintroduced  among  men  in  the  building  and  establishment  of  Christ's 
kingdom  triumphant  in  the  earth  to  which  he  would  come  to  rule  and 
reign  as  King  of  kings  and  Lord  of  lords  for  a  thousand  years,  as  the 
prophets  had  foretold.  Jesus  announced  in  this  dispensation,  therefore, 
that  the  hour  had  come  when  a  great  and  marvelous  work  was  about  to 
commence  among  men,  wherein  everything  would  be  shaken  that  could 
be  shaken  and  only  the  truth  would  stand,  and  that  the  prophecies  of  old 
were  about  to  be  fulfilled,  when  the  Spirit  of  God  would  be  poured  out 
upon  all  flesh  and  old  men  should  dream  dreams  and  young  men  should 
see  visions  (Joel  2:28),  and  that  as  a  result  of  it  men  would  see  wonders 
in  the  heavens  and  upon  the  earth. 

What  has  happened  in  this  world  since  that  visitation  a  hundred 
years  ago  is  in  part  at  least  a  realization  of  the  promise,  for  greater 
human  progress  has  been  made  in  the  development  of  science  in  the 
last  hundred  years  than  in  all  the  preceding  ages  combined.  Surely 
the  Spirit  of  God  has  been  poured  out  upon  all  flesh,  and  men  have 
caught  visions  of  the  secrets  of  God  and  the  materialization  of  these 
visions  has  produced  wonders  in  the  heavens  and  upon  the  earth.  The 
Lord's  hand  is  in  all  that  is  now  going  forward.  The  conflict  between 
good  and  evil  will  be  fierce  but  out  of  every  struggle  will  come  the  victory 
of  the  right  and  of  the  truth.    Every  man-made  institution  that  stands 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


in  the  way  of  God's  purposes  will  be  shaken  and  fall  to  the  earth,  and  his 
kingdom  shall  come  and  his  will  be  done  upon  earth  as  it  is  in  heaven. 

GIVES  TESTIMONY 

Let  all  believers  in  Christ  doubt  not,  for  he  delayeth  not  his  coming, 
neither  has  he  gone  afar  and  forgotten  us.  Let  us  all  join  in  continuing 
the  glorious  warfare  to  win  this  world  for  Christ,  its  rightful  Ruler. 

I  bear  witness  that  I  know  that  he  lives  and  that  he  is  the  Redeemer 
of  the  world.  When  that  day  shall  come  that  I  may  stand  in  his  presence 
and  hear  his  voice,  or  like  the  doubting  Thomas  thrust  my  hand  into 
his  wounded  side  and  hands,  I  shall  not  know  any  better  then  than  I  do 
today  that  he  lives  and  that  he  has  visited  the  earth  in  this  age  in  the 
reintroduction  of  his  glorious  Gospel  in  its  fulness  and  that  it  shall  be 
triumphant  in  the  earth.  God  speed  the  consummation  of  this  happy 
event.    I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

A  selection,  "Lo,  My  Shepherd  is  Divine,"  (Haydn),  was  sung  by 
a  mixed  double  quartet. 

A  selection,  "Blessed  Be  the  Lord  God"  (Buck),  was  sung  by  a 
mixed  double  quartet,  after  which  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congre- 
gation joined  in  the  singing  of  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel." 

(End  of  Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast) 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  have  with  us  seven  brethren  who  have  recently  returned  from 
presiding  over  missions  in  Europe  and  in  the  South  Sea  islands.  On 
account  of  the  two  national  broadcasts  occupying  so  much  time — a  full 
hour — we  have  not  been  able  to  hear  from  them  as  yet.  We  are  going  to 
take  an  extra  half  hour  this  morning,  and  before  the  close  of  the  meeting 
this  afternoon  we  would  like  to  hear  from  all  these  brethren  as  well  as 
from  the  General  Authorities  who  have  not  yet  spoken.  We  will  ask 
our  brethren  from  foreign  missions  to  occupy  not  more  than  ten 
minutes  each. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

INTRODUCTION 

The  Lord  has  said :  "My  soul  delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart ;  yea, 
the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it  shall  be  answered 
with  a  blessing  upon  their  heads." 

Your  unison  in  song  in  the  national  broadcast  this  morning  deeply 
impressed  me — yours  were  truly  songs  of  the  heart.  I  pray  that  they  will 
be  visited  with  blessings  upon  your  heads,  and  that  this  choir  in  rendering 
such  a  wonderful  service  to  the  Church,  to  the  State,  and  to  the  Nation 
may  receive  added  blessings.  I  would  that  the  same  oneness,  unity  and 
harmony  manifested  in  that  congregational  singing  might  characterize 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


103 


every  righteous  endeavor  of  the  Church.  God  bless  those  who  have  this 
music  in  hand,  and  bless  him  also  who  arranged  the  continuity  and  carried 
it  out  so  successfully. 

THE  CHURCH  SECURITY  PLAN 

Throughout  this  Conference  frequent  reference  has  been  made,  and 
appropriately  so,  to  the  plan  inaugurated  by  the  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church  for  the  relief  of  those  who  are  unemployed.  It  is  at  present 
one  of  our  greatest,  and  one  of  the  most  important  concerns  of  the 
Church.  During  the  few  minutes  allotted  to  me  I  desire  to  call  attention 
to  the  spiritual  value  of  this  important  and  far-reaching  undertaking. 

In  the  29th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  we  are  told  that 
"all  things  unto  the  Lord  are  spiritual,  and  not  at  any  time  have  I  given 
unto  you  a  law  which  was  temporal ;  neither  any  man,  nor  the  children  of 
men ;  neither  Adam,  your  father,  whom  I  created. 

"Behold  I  gave  unto  him  that  he  should  be  an  agent  unto  himself ; 
and  I  gave  unto  him  commandment,  but  no  temporal  commandment  gave 
I  unto  him,  for  my  commandments  are  spiritual ;  they  are  not  natural  nor 
temporal,  neither  carnal  nor  sensual." 

The  development  of  our  spiritual  nature  should  concern  us  most. 
Spirituality  is  the  highest  acquisition  of  the  soul,  the  divine  in  man ;  "the 
supreme,  crowning  gift  that  makes  him  king  of  all  created  things."  It  is 
the  consciousness  of  victory  over  self  and  of  communion  with  the  infinite. 
It  is  spirituality  alone  which  really  gives  one  the  best  in  life. 

It  is  something  to  supply  clothing  to  the  scantily  clad,  to  furnish 
ample  food  to  those  whose  table  is  thinly  spread,  to  give  activity  to  those 
who  are  fighting  desperately  the  despair  that  comes  from  enforced  idle- 
ness, but  after  all  is  said  and  done,  the  greatest  blessings  that  will  accrue 
from  the  Church  Security  Plan  are  spiritual.  Outwardly,  every  act  seems 
to  be  directed  toward  the  physical :  re-making  of  dresses  and  suits  of 
clothes,  canning  fruits  and  vegetables,  storing  foodstuffs,  choosing  of  fer- 
tile fields  for  settlement — all  seem  strictly  temporal,  but  permeating  all 
these  acts,  inspiring  and  sanctifying  them,  is  the  element  of  spirituality. 

SPIRITUALITY  EVEN  IN  ADVERSITY 

There  are  those  who  have  met  disaster,  which  almost  seems  defeat, 
who  have  become  somewhat  soured  in  their  natures,  but  if  they  stop  to 
think,  even  the  adversity  which  has  come  to  them  may  prove  a  means  of 
spiritual  uplift.  Adversity  itself  may  lead  toward  and  not  away  from  God 
and  spiritual  enlightenment ;  and  privation  may  prove  a  source  of  strength 
if  we  can  but  keep  the  sweetness  of  mind  and  spirit.  "Sweet  are  the  uses 
of  adversity,"  said  Shakespeare,  "which,  like  the  toad,  ugly  and  venom- 
ous, wears  yet  a  precious  jewel  in  his  head." 

Job  at  one  time  possessed  wealth  in  abundance.  He  numbered  his 
sheep,  camels,  and  oxen  by  the  thousand.  His  sons  and  daughters  were 
prosperous,  and  Job  was  happy  and  righteous  in  his  prosperity.  He  was 
the  greatest  of  all  men  in  the  East.  Then  came  disaster.  The  Sabeans 


104 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


stole  his  cattle  and  slew  his  servants ;  fire  consumed  his  sheep  and  the 
men  who  tended  them ;  Chaldeans  drove  away  his  camels ;  his  sons  and 
daughters  perished  in  a  cyclone.  Then  he  himself  was  smitten  with  a 
loathsome  skin  disease.  In  the  depths  of  his  affliction  his  wife  came  to 
him  and  said:  "Dost  thou  still  retain  thy  integrity?  Curse  God  and  die." 
Yet  from  the  depths  of  financial  ruin,  physical  suffering  and  harrowing 
accusations  of  his  would-be  friends,  Job  rose  to  the  very  heights  of  spir- 
itual exultation  when  he  declared : 

I  know  that  my  Redeemer  liveth,  and  that  he  shall  stand  at  the  latter 
day  upon  the  earth  : 

And  though  after  my  skin  worms  destroy  this  body,  yet  in  my  flesh 
shall  I  see  God. 

"To  bear  adversity  with  meek  submission  to  the  will  of  God,  to 
appear  cheerful  amid  surrounding  gloom,  hopeful  amidst  despondent  cir- 
cumstances, happy  in  God,  when  there  is  nothing  else  to  make  one  happy ; 
he  who  does  this  has  indeed  made  great  advance  in  the  divine  life." 

CONTEMPLATION  OF  PLAN  GIVES  SPIRITUAL  UPLIFT 

There  is  spirituality  even  in  the  conception  of  the  plan  that  is  going 
to  carry  alleviation  to  the  suffering  and  comfort  to  the  down-trodden  and 
poor.  An  intellectual  glow,  if  not  a  spiritual  blessing,  comes  even  in  the 
contemplation  of  such  things.  No  one  can  consider,  however  superficially, 
its  motives  and  objectives  without  comparing  in  his  mind  the  strife  and 
selfishness  as  exemplified  in  the  law  of  nature,  which  is  a  law  of  the  sur- 
vival of  the  fittest,  with  the  spiritual  law  expressed  by  Jesus  when  he 
said :  "He  that  will  lose  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it."  And  associated 
with  that  thought  this :  "Inasmuch  as  ye  do  it  unto  the  least  of  these  my 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

You  see  on  every  hand  the  struggle  that  goes  on  in  nature.  Birds  are 
killing  birds,  animals  are  killing  animals ;  men,  too,  in  the  highest  scale  of 
existence  are  struggling  and  taking  advantage  of  one  another.  "Envyings, 
murders,  drunkenness,  revellings,  and  such  like"  manifestations  of  the 
"works  of  the  flesh"  are  rampant ;  "and  they  which  do  such  things  shall 
not  inherit  the  kingdom  of  God ;"  they  are  not  in  accordance  with  the  law 
of  the  Lord,  nor  in  accordance  with  the  law  of  happiness. 

Thank  heaven,  we  can  see  also  indications  of  tendencies  to  deny  one- 
self for  the  good  of  others.  Evidences  are  increasing  daily  of  the  fact 
that  man  is  striving  for  higher  things  than  the  mere  selfish  and  the  sordid. 
"The  race  of  mankind  would  perish,"  says  Sir  Walter  Scott,  "if  they 
ceased  to  aid  one  another.  We  cannot  exist  without  mutual  help.  All, 
therefore,  that  need  aid  should  receive  it  from  their  fellowmen,  and  no 
one  who  has  the  power  of  granting  can  refuse  it  without  guilt." 

SPIRITUALITY  EXPRESSED  IN  GIVING 

There  is  more  spirituality  expressed  in  giving  than  in  receiving.  The 
greatest  spiritual  blessing  comes  from  helping  another.  If  you  want  to  be 
miserable,  just  harbor  hate  for  a  brother,  and  if  you  want  to  hate,  just 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


105 


do  your  brother  some  injury.  But  if  you  would  be  happy,  render  a  kind 
service,  make  somebody  else  happy.  The  poet  was  right  when  he  ex- 
pressed the  truth  in  these  lines : 

If  you  sit  down  at  set  of  sun 

And  count  the  acts  that  you  have  done, 

And,  counting,  find 

One  self-denying  deed,  one  word 

That  eased  the  heart  of  him  who  heard — 

One  glance  most  kind, 

That  fell  like  sunshine  where  it  went — 

Then  you  may  count  that  day  well  spent. 

But  if,  thru  all  the  livelong  day, 
You've  cheered  no  heart,  by  yea  or  nay, 
If  through  it  all, 

You've  nothing  done  that  you  can  trace 
That  brought  the  sunshine  to  one  face — ■ 
No  act  most  small 

That  helped  some  soul  and  nothing  cost — 
Then  count  that  day  as  worse  than  lost. 

There  is  another  thought,  however,  which  I  think  reflects  this  spiritu- 
ality, and  that  is  the  realization,  the  consciousness  that  we  are  approach- 
ing, in  desire  at  least,  the  two  great  commandments :  "Love  the  Lord  thy 
God  with  all  thy  might,  mind  and  strength,  and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself." 
All  who  have  participated  in  the  achievements  reported  October  1  by  the 
stake  presidencies  have  experienced  this  feeling.  Tens  of  thousands  of 
people  who  have  cooperatively  worked  to  make  this  plan  a  success  have 
been  motivated  by  a  desire  to  have  the  Church  a  living  activity  for  good. 
Christ's  Church  is  his  vineyard  in  which  he  invites  everybody  to  work. 
The  almost  universal  response  seems  to  indicate  that  the  Latter-day 
Saints  throughout  the  land  realize  that  a  lazy  church  "tends  towards  un- 
belief ;  and  that  an  earnest,  busy  church,  in  hand-to-hand  conflict  with 
sin  and  misery,  grows  stronger  in  faith." 

Associated  with  this  thought  is  the  realization  that  we  are  doing 
something  to  make  the  world  better.  The  well-known  statistician,  Mr. 
Babson,  says : 

People  should  understand  that  before  prosperity  can  return  there  must 
be  a  renewed  interest  in  the  spiritual  life  by  both  individuals  and  nations. 
Nations  should  realize  that  the  world  has  always  possessed  raw  materials 
and  labor,  but  has  been  prosperous  only  when  the  people  have  been  actuated 
by  a  religious  faith  to  use  these  resources  for  advancement  in  service.  This 
is  the  law  of  life,  and  now  is  the  time  when  it  should  be  taught  in  churches, 
schools  and  colleges. 

The  Church  is  a  means  of  rendering  in  order  and  wisdom  mutual 
service.  Jesus  Christ  is  its  author  and  the  divine  head.  He  himself,  while 
in  mortality,  was  the  personification  and  exemplification  of  brotherhood 
and  spirituality,  and  it  is  he  who  says  to  you  and  to  all  the  world,  "Learn 
of  me  and  listen  to  my  words ;  walk  in  the  meekness  of  my  spirit  and  ye 
shall  have  peace  in  me." 

God  help  us  to  obtain  that  peace  by  mutual  helpfulness  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


106 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


The  congregation  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Come, 
Let  Us  Anew." 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Listen  to  this  glorious  truth — It  is  found  in  the  Book  of  Mormon : 

For  it  behooveth  the  great  Creator  that  he  suffereth  himself  to  become 
subject  unto  man  in  the  flesh,  and  die  for  all  men,  that  all  men  might 
become  subject  unto  him.  (2  Nephi  9:5). 

SERVICE  THE  PRICE  OF  CONTENTMENT 

Consecrated  service  is  the  road  to  the  hearts  of  men.  The  mother 
becomes  subject  to  her  family,  so  to  speak,  by  sacred  service  and  sacri- 
fice, and  therefore  her  high  position  as  queen  of  the  home  is  eternally 
assured. 

The  sublime  truth  which  I  have  quoted  from  the  Book  of  Mormon 
foreshadows  the  condescension  of  God  Almighty.  Because  of  the  Fall 
men  were  cut  off  from  the  presence  of  the  Lord.  Only  an  infinite  atone- 
ment could  save  mankind  from  spiritual  death  and  bring  about  the  power 
of  the  resurrection  to  fallen  men  and  make  them  incorruptible,  immortal, 
living  souls. 

To  secure  this  priceless  boon  the  Creator  suffered  "the  pains  of 
every  living  creature,  both  men,  women,  and  children,  who  belong  to  the 
family  of  Adam."  Mankind  was  delivered  by  the  power  of  the  Holy  One 
of  Israel  by  his  atonement.  We  belong  to  him :  we  are  not  our  own.  He 
bought  us  with  the  price  of  his  precious  blood. 

The  Savior  said :  "My  Father  worketh  hitherto  and  I  work."  I  be- 
lieve that  work  is  the  weapon  of  honor.  One  of  the  evils  that  is  oppressing 
this  nation  is  the  failure  of  a  large  number  of  men  to  work :  many  people 
unfortunately  cannot  find  employment.  Every  able-bodied  man  should 
have  "a  mind  to  work." 

The  locomotive  that  runs  light  is  more  likely  to  jump  the  track  than 
the  one  that  is  pulling  a  load.  If  more  of  the  young  men  and  women  in 
our  country  were  married  there  would  be  fewer  social  and  industrial  dis- 
turbances. Long  engagements,  as  a  rule,  are  not  good.  There  are  too 
many  men  running  light  in  this  old  world.  More  personal  responsibility 
is  needed.  Henry  Ward  Beecher  said  that  the  darkest  hour  in  a  young 
man's  life  was  when  he  sat  down  and  planned  and  devised  how  to  make  a 
living  without  work.  Without  mental  or  physical  labor  an  honest  living 
cannot  be  made. 

When  Erskine,  the  great  British  advocate  was  addressing  a  jury — 
the  first  time,  by  the  way,  that  he  had  made  an  address  in  a  court  of  law — 
he  said  that  he  must  succeed  for  he  felt  that  his  wife  and  children  were 
tugging  at  his  coat  tails. 

Jesus  said :  "And  whosoever  will  be  chief  among  you,  let  him  be 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


107 


your  servant ;  even  as  the  Son  of  man  came  not  to  be  ministered  unto,  but 
to  minister,  and  to  give  his  life  a  ransom  for  many."  To  give  his  life  for 
a  ransom  for  many — that  was  the  grandest  service  ever  beheld  in  the 
universe  of  God. 

We  read  in  the  New  Testament  the  profound  truth  that  God  per- 
mitted His  Only  Begotten  Son,  the  Being  who  created  the  world,  to  work 
in  a  carpenter  shop  at  the  carpenter's  bench.  I  think  as  I  read  the  Savior's 
words  "Take  my  yoke  upon  you  and  learn  of  me  *  *  *  for  my  yoke  is 
easy,  and  my  burden  is  light,"  that  he,  the  divine  Son  of  God,  made 
yokes  in  that  workshop  for  beasts  of  burden.  The  yokes  were  so  well 
made  that  they  made  no  sore  places.  The  man  who  wears  the  yoke  of 
Christ  has  no  sore  spots  on  him,  for  in  the  wearing  of  that  yoke  there  is 
perfect  liberty  and  joy.  He  that  would  be  great  let  him  be  the  servant  of 
his  fellow  creatures  and  minister  to  their  needs. 

AN  ILLUSTRATION  OF  UNSELFISHNESS 

Once  upon  a  time,  as  the  story  goes,  two  men  owned  a  field  jointly, 
and  side  by  side  they  planted,  they  watered,  and  they  shared  the  crops 
share  and  share  alike.  One  of  these  men  had  seven  sons.  Zimri  lived  by 
himself.  One  night  when  the  crops  were  harvested,  Zimri  said,  "I  am 
alone,  and  my  brother  has  seven  sons ;  it  is  not  pleasing  in  the  sight  of 
God  that  I  should  have  as  much  as  he."  So  he  stole  forth  from  the  field 
and  took  one-third  of  his  sheaves  and  placed  them  with  Abram's  sheaves. 
Abram  awoke  and  he  thought  of  Zimri,  and  said  he :  "Here  am  I,  sur- 
rounded by  my  sons,  and  Zimri  is  alone.  At  the  end  of  the  day's  labor  he 
goes  to  a  cold,  lonely  home.  I  am  going  to  give  him  one-third  of  my 
sheaves."  He  did  so.  The  next  morning  both  were  astonished  to  find 
when  they  arose  that  they  had  not  lost  anything  by  giving  to  each  other.  _ 

The  next  night  Zimri  went  into  the  field  and  took  a  third  of  his 
sheaves  to  Abram's  pile  and  placed  them  there  and  then  he  hid.  He  saw 
Abram  coming  out.  And  now  the  words  of  the  poet : 

Then  Abram  came  down  softly  from  his  home 
And  looking  to  the  left  and  right,  went  on, 
Took  from  his  ample  store  a  generous  third, 
And  laid  it  on  his  brother  Zimri's  pile. 
Then  Zimri  rose,  and  caught  him  in  his  arms, 
And  wept  upon  his  neck,  and  kissed  his  cheek; 
And  Abram  saw  the  whole,  and  could  not  speak ; 
Neither  could  Zimri,  for  their  hearts  were  full. 

"He  that  hath  pity  upon  the  poor  lendeth  unto  the  Lord,"  for  "when 
ye  are  in  the  service  of  your  fellow  beings  ye  are  only  in  the  service  of 
your  God."  May  this  heavenly  duty  shine  in  our  hearts  with  a  broad  and 
glowing  light,  I  humbly  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


108 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

With  the  blessing  of  the  Lord  and  your  help  I  trust  that  I  may  give 
voice  to  a  thought  or  two  that  may  be  helpful  to  us. 

On  Friday  when  we  heard  the  report  of  the  Social  Security  Plan 
read  I  thought  of  the  question  asked  by  the  Pharisees  of  the  Christ.  You 
will  remember,  a  lawyer  asked  the  Christ  which  was  the  greatest  com- 
mandment. And  the  Savior  replied : 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself. 

You  will  notice  that  the  two  commandments  which  I  have  quoted 
commence  with  the  affirmative,  "Thou  shalt."  There  are  people  who  feel 
that  the  Lord  is  behind  the  times  educationally  when  he  uses  the  negative 
form  "Thou  shalt  not"  in  some  of  the  commandments,  so  to  bring  the 
Ten  Commandments  up  to  date  they  want  to  reword  them,  or  at  least 
feel  obliged  to  apologize  when  they  quote  the  ones  that  are  stated  in  the 
negative. 

I  can  understand  why  some  people  outside  the  Church  desire  to 
change  and  make  constant  explanations  about  the  negative  form  of  some 
of  the  Ten  Commandments  but  it  is  hard  to  understand  why  any  of  us 
belonging  to  the  Church  should  want  to  modify  or  think  it  necessary  to 
reword  the  Ten  Commandments  so  that  the  phrase  "Thou  shalt  not"  will 
be  eliminated.  I  hope  that  we  shall  have  the  good  sense,  the  propriety, 
and  the  faith  to  retain  the  thought  and  the  wording  as  it  came  from  God. 

My  thought  in  connection  with  the  two  great  commandments  is  their 
practical  application  to  the  Social  Security  Plan.  At  the  present  time 
there  is  a  great  emergency  in  the  Nation  and  in  the  Church,  and  it  has 
existed  for  some  time.  Although  we  may  have  thought  about  it  and  done 
some  good  things,  seemingly  we  were  not  able  to  get  together  and  agree 
on  a  common  plan.  But  as  soon  as  the  people  of  the  Church  under  its 
splendid  leadership  unite  and  agree  to  handle  this  emergency  the  success 
of  the  undertaking  is  assured.  We  immediately  unite  together  and  get  the 
feeling  or  power  and  ability  to  do  great  things  in  the  Church  not  only 
as  individuals  but  as  members  of  wards  or  stakes.  And  so,  we  have  at 
the  present  time  a  splendid  demonstration  of  all  of  the  Church  being 
united  in  common  thought  with  common  desires,  trying  to  follow  the  ad- 
monition of  the  Lord  wherein  he  said :  "If  ye  love  me,  keep  my  com- 
mandments." And  the  two  great  commandments  are  the  love  of  God 
and  the  love  of  neighbor. 

Our  tithes  and  our  fast  offerings  have  increased,  because  our  faith 
and  our  love  of  God  have  increased.  Our  ability  to  do  the  righteous,  con- 
sistent thing  in  the  Church  is  dependent  upon  the  love  of  God  that  we 
have  in  our  hearts.  We  can  do  other  things  in  the  Church  in  the  same 


ELDER  ARTHUR  GAETH 


109 


way  if  we  will  unite  ourselves  together  just  as  closely  and  just  as  splen- 
didly, realizing  that  it  is  the' work  of  the  Lord. 

The  Social  Security  Plan  is  not  the  only  thing  in  the  Church  that  we 
all  need  to  get  behind  and  support.  I  remember  that  when  we  had  Pro- 
hibition we  used,  to  hear  young  and  old  people  say  that  the  reason  they 
drank  and  the  reason  they  smoked  was  the  prohibition  part  of  it — that 
part,  like  the  Ten  Commandments,  which  said  you  could  not  do  a  thing — 
and  the  argument  was  that  if  we  would  eliminate  this  commandment  and 
this  process  of  compulsion,  the  young  and  the  older  people  would  very 
willingly  walk  forward  in  righteousness  so  far  as  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
was  concerned.  We  are  where  we  are  today  in  that  commandment  be- 
cause we  lack  unity  of  purpose  and  desire.  We  know  that  it  is  not  the 
way  a  commandment  is  worded  or  even  a  knowledge  that  the  thing  is 
right  which  keeps  us  from  smoking  or  drinking,  or  breaking  any  other 
commandment.  The  thing  that  keeps  us  straight,  the  thing  that  helps  us 
to  be  obedient  unto  the  law  of  God,  is  our  love  for  God  demonstrated  in 
our  lives. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  and  help  us  to  appreciate  his  commandments 
and  to  unite  together  spiritually  and  temporally  in  the  keeping  of  all  his 
commandments  as  we  are  now  united  in  this  great  social  program,  that 
we  may  grow  spiritually  and  progress  in  God's  church,  I  pray  in  Jesus' 
name,  Amen. 

ELDER  ARTHUR  GAETH 

Former  President  of  the  Czechoslovak  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  appreciate  the  opportunity  of  being  again 
assembled  in  conference  with  you  after  a  long  absence. 

I  wish  to  bear  testimony  to  you  this  morning  in  behalf  of  our 
eighteen  missionaries  laboring  in  Czechoslovakia  among  the  fifteen  mil- 
lion people  of  that  country.  Eighteen  among  fifteen  million  is  rather 
a  small  number,  but  we  feel  that  our  efforts  have  been  blessed  and  that 
we  have  made  an  impression  upon  the  people  of  that  nation.  The  Lord 
has  opened  up  the  way  so  that  we  have,  on  different  occasions,  been  able 
to  bear  a  message  to  multitudes,  not  only  to  small  gatherings  of  people. 
The  Lord  has  led  us  so  that  we  have  been  able  to  touch  the  hearts  of  the 
officials  of  the  country,  and  have  been  able  to  obtain  the  right  to  preach 
and  teach  the  Gospel  in  a  time  when  much  of  Europe  is  being  regulated 
and  regimented,  and  when  it  is  difficult  for  the  voice  of  God  to  find  its 
way  into  the  hearts  of  the  people.  We  have  been  preaching  the  Gospel 
under  disturbed  conditions.  The  people  are  beginning  to  lose  faith 
in  religion,  because  religion  has  not  been  able  to  light  the  way,  has  not 
been  able  to  appease  the  hearts  of  men  and  to  make  them  see  the  truth 
and  live  according  to  the  principles  for  which  Christ  laid  down  his  life. 
Because  people  have  lost  faith  and  confidence  in  each  other,  they  have 
lost  faith  in  the  government  by  the  people,  so  many  of  the  nations  today 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


are  in  the  hands  of  a  few  who  are  not  being  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  but  who  are  striving  to  gain  in  their  selfish  way  more  of  that  which 
belongs  to  their  neighbors.  But  in  spite  of  those  difficulties  we  have 
found  a  few  who  have  listened  to  our  message,  and  who  have  accepted 
the  Gospel.  Europe  needs  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  today  as  she 
never  did  before,  and  we  need  to  send  our  young  men  and  young  women, 
and  our  old  men  among  those  people  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  them. 

I  feel  that  in  our  mission  we  have  needed  older  men,  men  of  ex- 
perience with  burning  testimonies  of  the  Gospel,  to  move  the  hearts 
of  those  people,  and  I  hope  that  as  our  economic  program  takes  some 
of  our  older  men  and  women  from  daily  occupation  that  they  will  find 
the  time  and  the  courage  to  undertake  a  mission  in  a  foreign  country. 
I  am  of  the  opinion  that  any  man  who  had  the  ability  to  learn  a  foreign 
language  when  he  was  22  years  of  age  still  possesses  that  ability  at  65 
or  70.  We  have  had  experiments  in  our  work  with  English  Clubs, 
and  have  discovered  that  old  men  and  women,  after  they  had  been 
pensioned,  have  been  able  to  acquire  French,  English,  Spanish  and  other 
languages  if  they  had  the  desire. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  we  are  not  of  the  world ;  we  are  for 
the  world,  but  as  Christ  said:  "Ye  are  not  of  the  world."  And,  therefore, 
it  becomes  necessary  for  us  to  be  a  light  unto  the  world.  I  am  thankful 
that  the  Lord  has  inspired  our  leaders  in  this  Security  Program,  so 
that  the  people  of  this  Church  may  be  drawn  closer  together,  that  they 
may  solve  their  own  problems  not  according  to  the  ways  of  the  world, 
but  according  to  the  ways  of  the  Lord  and  according  to  the  inspiration 
which  he  vests  in  those  who  have  been  called  to  guide  and  direct  this 
great  work  here  upon  the  earth.  And  so  I  bear  you  my  testimony 
that  the  Lord  has  spoken,  and  Joseph  Smith  was  selected  as  an  instru- 
ment to  restore  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  these  the  latter  days.  I  am 
thankful  for  the  privilege  I  have  of  mingling  my  voice  with  those  who 
have  borne  testimony  here,  for  I  know  that  the  Lord  lives,  and  that  he 
is  in  a  position  to  answer  our  prayers  if  we  will  but  bend  our  knees 
occasionally  and  ask  for  guidance  and  help.  May  the  Lord  bless  us 
in  our  efforts,  may  he  add  to  the  number  of  those  who  are  now  engaged 
in  missionary  work  among  the  peoples  of  this  earth,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  never  see  an  audience  such  as  we  have  here  today — all  the  seats 
taken,  the  aisles  crowded,  and  people  standing  in  the  gallery — that  my 
heart  is  not  filled  with  gratitude  for  the  wisdom  and  inspiration  of 
Brigham  Young  in  furnishing  us  with  this  magnificent  auditorium. 

The  Choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  (Handel). 
Elder  George  A.  Bean,  President  of  the  Union  Stake,  offered  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK 


111 


THIRD  DAY 

AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Sunday,  October  4.  Again  the  great  Tabernacle 
auditorium  and  galleries  were  crowded  with  people,  and  again  thousands 
of  people  gathered  in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  on  the  Tabernacle  Square, 
where  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  as  they  were  broad- 
cast from  the  Tabernacle  by  radio. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session,  and  sang 
as  an  opening  number  "How  Beautiful  Are  The  Feet  of  Him  Who 
Bringeth  Glad  Tidings"  (Handel's  Messiah). 

Elder  Horace  A.  Hess,  President  of  the  Yellowstone  Stake  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Choir  sang  "The  Music  of  Life"  (Noble  Cain). 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brothers  and  sisters :  The  Church  as  a  whole,  and  we  who  are 
assembled  particularly,  rejoice  that  today  we  have  among  us  again  Brother 
Alonzo  A.  Hinckley.  We  thank  the  Lord  for  preserving  his  life,  and 
he  has  our  constant  and  daily  prayers  that  the  Lord  will  soon  restore 
him  completely  to  health  and  strength. 

FAITHFULNESS  OF  CHOIR  COMMENDED 

Again,  I  would  like  to  pay  my  homage  to  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
mission.  I  am  sure  that  from  one  conference  to  another  we  can  see 
a  decided  improvement.  Brother  David  A.  Smith  informs  me  that 
this  organization  has  an  average  attendance,  counting  its  Thursday  night 
rehearsals,  its  Sunday  morning  broadcast,  and  Sunday  afternoon  service, 
of  better  than  82  per  cent.  That  is  a  record  which  is  probably  not 
excelled  by  any  other  organization  in  the  Church. 

I  want  also  to  extend  my  congratulations  and  appreciation  to  the 
Singing  Mothers  (they  delighted  us,  as  always)  and  also  to  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  Male  Chorus.  I  told  Brother  Cornwall  the  other  day  that 
we  should  expect  to  hear  from  this  chorus  more  frequently  in  the  future. 
And,  lastly,  we  are  grateful  for  those  who  have  sung  for  us  here  in 
solos.  Sometimes  I  feel  that  we  get  nearer  to  the  Lord  through  music 
than  perhaps  through  any  other  thing  except  prayer. 

I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord,  more  than  I  can  tell,  for  the  cultural  life 
which  is  among  this  people.  Those  who  are  not  familiar  with  us  and 
our  achievements  sometimes  speak  as  if  we  had  no  culture,  but  I  am 
sure  there  is  no  group  of  an  equal  size  in  the  whole  world  that  has  a 


112 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


higher  cultural  rating  than  has  this  people,  in  music,  in  art,  in  literature, 
in  science. 

PURPOSE  OF  THE  SECURITY  PLAN 

We  have  heard  much  during  this  conference  regarding  the  Security 
Plan  which  the  Church  is  putting  into  operation.  That  plan  has  behind 
it  two  essential  things,  first,  that  we  shall  see  that  nobody  shall  starve 
or  really  need  for  the  things  necessary  for  life;  and,  secondly,  and  just 
as  importantly,  that  every  one  who  can  work  shall  have  some  work  given 
to  him  or  to  her  to  do.  I  wish  it  were  within  my  power,  as  I  know  it  is 
not,  to  express  what  is  in  my  heart  regarding  this  great  plan,  and  to 
say  how  I  feel  about  the  dignity  and  the  honor  of  work. 

WORK  THE  LAW  OF  THIS  EARTH 

I  endorse  everything  that  was  said  this  morning  by  Brother  Callis. 
Work  is  a  great  thing.  It  is  the  law  of  this  earth.  When  Adam  was 
cast  out,  upon  him  was  passed  the  glorious  sentence,  "In  the  sweat  of  thy 
face  shalt  thou  eat  bread."  Man  as  he  is  would  not  and  could  not  have 
existed  except  for  the  promulgation  of  this  law.  Work  is  a  wonderful 
thing,  no  matter  what  that  work  may  be. 

The  great  Milton,  in  that  wonderful  poem,  "Paradise  Lost,"  pays 
this  tribute  to  work,  which  he  expresses,  after  he  opens  to  us  the  vision 
of  Adam  and  Eve  in  the  Garden  of  Eden: 

God  hath  set  labor  and  rest,  as  day  and  night, 
To  men  successive  .  .  . 
Other  creatures  all  day  long 
Rove  idle,  unemployed,  and  less  need  rest ; 
Man  hath  his  daily  work  of  body  and  mind 
Appointed,  which  declares  his  dignity, 
And  the  regard  of  Heaven  on  all  his  ways ; 
While  other  animals  unactive  range 
And  of  their  doings  God  takes  no  account. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  if  we  can  just  get  into  our  minds  the  dignity 
and  the  honor  of  work,  no  matter  what  that  work  may  be,  most  of  the 
ills  from  which  we  suffer  will  be  solved.  During  the  whole  range  of  man's 
existence  there  has  never  yet  been  any  plan  by  which  men  may  live 
righteously  in  idleness,  and  no  such  plan,  it  is  my  faith,  will  ever  be 
devised. 

RELIEF  SOCIETY  AND  PRIESTHOOD  PRAISED 

I  want  to  thank  the  sisters  of  the  Relief  Society  for  the  wonderful 
work  which  they  have  done  in  this  Security  Plan.  We  hear  that  many 
of  them  have  worked  and  worked  until  they  are  worn  out.  This  of  course 
must  not  be.  But  how  glorious  is  a  tired  body  when  in  it  there  beats 
a  heart  filled  with  the  light  of  righteousness.  The  exaltation  and  the 
exultation  of  having  done  one's  duty ! 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK 


113 


How  infinitely  better  to  have  a  tired  body  from  work  and  service 
for  our  fellow  men  than  to  have  a  nerve-torn  body  coming  from  the 
bridge  gambling  table,  cocktails,  and  whiskey  and  sodas,  with  the  moral 
decay  which  goes  with  them. 

I  want  to  thank  the  Priesthood  who  have  been  untiring  in  their 
efforts.  Brothers  and  sisters,  I  marvel,  sincerely  and  truly  marvel,  at 
the  work  which  this  people  can  do  when  it  sets  its  hands  to  do  it;  and 
I  repeat  what  I  said  last  night,  that  there  is  nothing  that  can  stop  this 
people  in  any  movement  which  it  sets  up  for  the  advancement  of  humanity 
if  all  will  work  together.  No  power  on  the  earth  or  under  the  earth 
can  defeat  our  purpose  along  these  lines.  And  so  I  thank  all  the  brethren 
from  the  bottom  of  my  heart  for  all  that  they  have  done — including  the 
general  committee  that  is  getting  this  Security  Plan  started.  There  is 
still  work  to  do,  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  are  to  carry  on. 

TRUE  HEROES 

As  I  observed  last  night,  the  distribution  of  this  fund  is  going  to 
be  more  difficult,  in  one  sense,  than  its  accumulation.  The  Bishops  will 
have  to  supervise  the  distribution  and  it  must  be  done  in  the  spirit  of  love, 
in  the  spirit  of  fatherhood,  without  fear,  without  favor,  without  partiality. 
In  no  other  way  shall  we  succeed. 

Then  I  want  to  thank,  and  devoutly  thank,  that  great  group  of 
Latter-day  Saints  who  under  this  terrible  depression,  deprived  of  their 
jobs  and  livelihood,  have  lived  on,  struggling,  using  up  the  accumulation 
of  the  years  that  they  might  keep  off  the  "dole,"  holding  fast  to  the 
truths  of  the  Gospel,  cheerful,  courageous,  even  to  their  last  cent.  They 
are  true  heroes,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  we  whom  the  Lord  has  not 
so  disciplined  have  been  deprived  of  the  blessings  which  that  discipline 
has  brought  to  them.  To  live  on  as  they  have  lived,  courageously, 
straightforward,  honest,  requires  far  more  will  and  far  more  character 
than  for  us  to  live  who  have  been  blessed  with  a  little  more.  Never  forget 
them,  my  brothers  and  sisters.  I  repeat,  they  are  the  heroes  of  this 
terrible  time. 

■GOSPEL  AN  INDIVIDUAL  PLAN 

We  have  proclaimed  to  the  world,  and  we  have  proclaimed  what 
we  knew,  that  we  have  the  Gospel  plan,  and  that  the  Gospel  plan  not 
only  takes  care  of  our  spiritual  needs,  but  our  temporal  needs  as  well. 
Under  this  plan  there  comes  to  us  a  double  responsibility,  for  the  plan 
provides  how  we  shall  guide  and  direct  our  work  individually.  It  is  an 
individual  plan;  it  provides  how  I  shall  live  and  you  shall  live  day  by 
day,  day  in  and  day  out,  week  in  and  week  out,  and  throughout  a  long 
lifetime.  For  the  individual,  it  leaves  nothing  to  be  desired ;  it  leaves 
nothing  still  necessary.  But  this  plan  does  more  than  that,  it  teaches  us 
how  to  live  in  a  group  under  an  organization  and  principles  which  enable 
us  to  live  together  as  brothers  and  sisters,  equal  in  all  things  insofar  as 
we  live  for  that  equality. 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


That  places  upon  us  a  responsibility  because  this  plan  which  has 
been  given  to  us  is  a  plan  by  which  Christian  rule  can  come  and  will  come 
to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  We  are  in  charge  of  that  plan.  No  other 
people  have  had  it  given  to  them.  We  alone  in  all  the  world  are  possessed 
of  this  wonderful  thing,  this  Christian  plan,  this  Christian  rule  and  the 
responsibility  not  to  be  escaped,  is  upon  us,  to  make  this  rule  known, 
to  propagate  it  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  in  order  that  they  may  also 
know  how  to  live  as  a  truly  Christian  unit.  We  may  talk  and  talk  about 
Christian  rule  in  the  world  but  that  rule  will  not  come  by  talk.  But  we 
can  bring  Christian  rule  immeasurably  forward  if  we  shall  ourselves 
adopt  it.  This  Security  Plan,  which  goes  back  to  the  principles  which 
were  given  to  the  Church  over  a  hundred  years  ago,  puts  us  once  more 
on  the  road  leading  to  the  establishment  of  a  Christian  rule. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  such  is  our  responsibility ;  and  our  destiny 
is  that  if  we  shall  live  ourselves  the  Christian  rule  the  Lord  intends  to 
use  us  by  reason  of  our  experience  and  our  discipline,  to  extend  this 
Christian  rule  throughout  the  world.  We  shall  do  it,  by  love,  by  mercy, 
by  charity,  by  righteousness,  by  living  the  Gospel. 

LIGHT  GROWS  WITH  RIGHTEOUS  LIVING 

Every  human  being  is  born  with  the  light  of  faith  kindled  in  his 
heart  as  on  an  altar,  and  that  light  burns  and  the  Lord  sees  that  it  burns, 
during  the  period  before  we  are  accountable.  When  accountability  comes 
then  each  of  us  determines  how  we  shall  feed  and  care  for  that  light. 
If  we  shall  live  righteously  that  light  will  glow  until  it  suffuses  the 
whole  body,  giving  to  it  health  and  strength  and  spiritual  light  as  well 
as  bodily  health.  If  we  shall  live  unrighteously  that  light  will  dwindle 
and  finally  almost  flicker  out.  Yet  it  is  my  hope  and  my  belief  that  the 
Lord  never  permits  the  light  of  faith  wholly  to  be  extinguished  in  any 
human  heart,  however  faint  the  light  may  glow.  The  Lord  has  provided 
that  there  shall  still  be  there  a  spark  which,  with  teaching,  with  the 
spirit  of  righteousness,  with  love,  with  tenderness,  with  example,  with 
living  the  Gospel,  shall  brighten  and  glow  again,  however  darkened  the 
mind  may  have  been.  And  if  we  shall  fail  so  to  reach  those  among  us 
of  our  own  whose  faith  has  dwindled  low,  we  shall  fail  in  one  of  the 
main  things  which  the  Lord  expects  at  our  hands. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  may  the  Lord  bless  us.  May  he  give 
us  faith,  and  hope,  and  charity;  may  he  give  us  the  vision  to  see  the 
wisdom  of  the  immediate  task  in  which  we  are  engaged. 

WIDESPREAD  INTEREST 

I  repeat  what  I  have  said  several  times  since  this  conference  began : 
The  eyes  of  the  world  are  upon  us,  newspapers  from  all  over  the  United 
States  are  sending  to  us  for  information  about  this  Plan  of  ours,  and 
they  want  the  details,  how  it  is  working,  and  why  it  is  working.  We  are 
the  city  set  upon  a  hill.  If  we  should  fail  in  this,  and  the  Lord  will 
not  let  us  fail,  great  would  be  our  condemnation.    We  should  have 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


115 


lost  the  opportunity  that  has  again  come  to  the  Church  now  after  its 
early  coming  at  the  beginning  of  our  Church  life. 

I  say,  may  the  Lord  bless  us,  bring  us  the  vision  of  what  we  have 
undertaken  and  what  we  should  do,  give  us  the  faith  and  the  courage  to 
carry  on,  as  we  know  we  should  carry  on ;  give  us  unity,  take  from 
our  minds  and  our  hearts  all  bickerings  and  jealousies,  and  build  us  up 
into  one  great  united  people,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  spirit  of  this 
conference.  I  was  thrilled  in  the  first  session  of  the  conference  and  with 
the  sessions  that  have  followed.  I  was  greatly  thrilled  with  the  broad- 
cast this  morning,  with  the  singing  of  the  choir  which  has  never  in  my 
judgment  been  better.  I  was  deeply  impressed  and  thrilled  with  the 
singing  of  the  "Singing  Mothers."  I  was  thrilled  when  I  looked  upon 
these  flowers,  these  beautiful  flowers — a  bouquet  of  Dahlias — because 
they  are  the  expression  of  God's  creative  power,  and  I  am  deeply  thrilled 
beyond  expression  standing  here  looking  into  the  faces  of  this  great 
congregation. 

There  is  a  power  here,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  an  influence 
that  is  overwhelming. 

I  was  deeply  thrilled  with  the  Priesthood  meeting  last  evening  in 
this  building.  Think  of  it ! — this  great  Tabernacle  filled  to  overflowing 
with  men  of  the  priesthood,  men  representing  divine  authority.  What 
power  can  stand  against  the  influence  of  such  a  representation  as  we 
had  here  last  night. 

THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS  A  BLESSED  PEOPLE 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  this  afternoon  on  a  great  and 
important  subject  that  is  intimately  related  to  a  situation  in  the  spirit 
world  affecting  the  future  welfare  of  a  multitude  of  spirits  who  once 
dwelt  in  the  flesh  upon  the  earth. 

The  great  majority  of  them  lived  and  died  without  hearing  or  re- 
ceiving the  Gospel  message.  The  reason  is  obvious.  The  true  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  in  its  fulness  and  power  was  not  to  be  found  in  their 
day  upon  the  earth. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  a  blessed  people.  Fortunately  for  them 
they  were  permitted  to  come  forth  in  the  flesh  in  a  Gospel  dispensation, 
which  Gospel  is  described  by  Paul,  the  apostle,  as  "the  power  of  God 
unto  salvation  to  every  one  that  believeth." 

They  have  the  priesthood  among  them  as  I  have  already  said,  which  is 
divine  authority  in  men.  They  have  a  temple  (in  fact,  they  have  a  number 
of  temples)  of  the  Lord,  the  sanctuary  of  great  and  mighty  blessings 
conferred  upon  the  faithful  without  money  and  without  price. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


CLOTHED  UPON  WITH  DIVINE  AUTHORITY 

They  have  a  living  prophet  in  their  midst,  a  man  who  is  clothed 
upon  with  divine  authority,  a  man  who  holds  the  keys  of  the  kingdom 
of  heaven  upon  earth.  And  where  in  the  world  will  we  go  to  find  a 
man  of  this  kind  ?  How  did  that  authority  come  to  this  man  ?  It  came 
to  him  very  much  as  it  came  to  Peter.  On  one  certain  occasion  Jesus 
said  to  Peter:  "And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the  kingdom  of 
heaven :  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in 
heaven:  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be  loosed  in 
heaven." 

What  great  and  almighty  authority  was  this?  But  it  constituted 
Peter  a  living  prophet  of  God  in  his  day,  clothed  upon  as  he  was  with 
divine  authority. 

Very  much  the  same  language  was  used  by  the  Lord  in  conferring 
upon  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  like  authority.  You  will  find  the 
words  recorded  in  Section  132,  most  impressive  words,  most  wonderful 
words  !  The  Lord  said  to  Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet : 

For  I  have  conferred  upon  you  the  keys  and  power  of  the  priesthood, 
wherein  I  restore  all  things,  and  make  known  unto  you  all  things  in 
due  time. 

And  verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  that  whatsoever  you  seal  on  earth 
shall  be  sealed  in  heaven;  and  whatsoever  you  bind  on  earth,  in  my  name 
and  by  my  word,  saith  the  Lord,  it  shall  be  eternally  bound  in  the  heavens ; 
and  whosesoever  sins  you  remit  on  earth  shall  be  remitted  eternally  in 
the  heavens. 

It  is  such  a  blessing,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  constitutes  a 
man  a  prophet  of  God.  Surely  it  must  be  so.  And  the  blessings  of  the 
holy  temple  of  God  were  restored  to  the  earth.  These  blessings  are  dis- 
pensed to  those  who  are  faithful  but  cannot  be  purchased  by  money.  Gold 
and  silver  instantly  lose  their  value  when  compared  with  these  mighty 
blessings. 

ORDINANCES  OF  LIFE  AND  SALVATION 

Strangers  come  and  look  upon  the  temple  here  and  marvel  at  its 
appearance  of  strength  and  beauty.  They  are  eager  to  go  into  the 
temple,  to  walk  through  it,  to  see  what  is  there.  If  they  were  permitted 
to  go  through  it,  they  would  simply  see  that  which  constitutes  the  furniture 
and  furnishings  of  the  temple.  It  is  not  the  building  or  furnishings  that 
give  it  value  but  it  is  the  ordinances  of  life  and  salvation  that  are  per- 
formed therein. 

Now,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  the  providences  of  the  Lord  the 
splendid  blessings  of  the  temple  have  been  given  to  us  while  that  great 
group  of  spirits  beyond  the  veil  heretofore  mentioned  through  untoward 
circumstances  are  deprived  of  them.  Thus  you  see  their  situation  is  very 
different  from  ours.  They  lived  and  died  at  a  period  when  the  true  Gospel 
in  its  fulness  and  power  was  not  upon  the  earth  and  they  therefore  could 
not  receive  it  or  secure  the  blessings  thereof. 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


117 


OUR  OBLIGATION  TO  THE  DEAD 

Are  we  not  under  obligation  to  do  what  we  can  for  them  since  the 
blessings  of  salvation  both  for  the  living  and  the  dead  can  only  be  had 
through  the  temple  ordinances  aclminsitered  on  the  earth? 

Surely  some  plan  was  needed  whereby  these  blessings  could  be 
given  to  the  dead.  Happily,  a  plan  was  instituted  by  our  Heavenly 
Father  to  meet  the  situation. 

The  Savior  emphasized  the  vital  importance  of  baptism  in  the  plan 
of  salvation  when  he  said  to  Nicodemus,  (John  3:5)  "Except  a  man  be 
born  of  water  and  of  the  spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of 
God." 

When  Jesus  said  "a  man,"  he  meant  every  man  (and  every  woman 
of  course)  whether  they  be  living  or  dead. 

THE  COMING  OF  ELIJAH 

Further  light  is  thrown  upon  this  important  subject  in  the  last 
chapter  of  the  Book  of  Malachi,  as  follows: 

Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord: 

And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the 
heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and  smite  the  earth 
with  a  curse.  (Malachi  4:5,  6) 

Joseph  Smith,  the  prophet,  and  Oliver  Cowdery  testify  that  Elijah, 
the  prophet,  appeared  in  the  Kirtland  Temple  on  April  3,  1836,  in  direct 
fulfilment  of  Malachi's  prediction,  stood  before  them,  and  said : 

►  Behold  the  time  has  fully  come,  which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth 
of  Malachi — testifying  that  he  (Elijah)  should  be  sent,  before  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — 

To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  children 
to  the  fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten  with  a  curse — 

Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensation  are  committed  into  your  hands ; 
and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is 
near,  even  at  the  doors.  (D.  and  C.  110:14,  15,  16) 

Since  that  day  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  in  the  spirit  world  have 
been  turned  to  us  their  earthly  children ;  surely  our  hearts  have  been 
turned  to  them. 

THE  GATHERING  OF  GENEALOGY 

The  spirit  of  gathering  genealogy  is  abroad  among  the  nations. 
Many  people  are  influenced  by  it.  They  know  not  why,  but  we  under- 
stand it  perfectly. 

If  we  would  do  the  work  of  our  fathers  who  have  gone  hence, 
we  must  have  their  genealogy  that  a  proper  record  can  be  made  of  it  and 
laid  up  in  the  archives  of  the  Temple.  Bear  in  mind,  brethren  and  sisters 
and  friends,  that  we  are  told  in  holy  writ  that  "for  this  cause  was  the 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

gospel  preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might  be  judged 
according  to  men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit." 
(I  Peter,  4:6) 

It  should  also  be  remembered  that  when  Christ  was  crucified,  his 
body  was  laid  in  the  tomb  but  his  pure  spirit  went  into  the  spirit  world. 
He  was  not  idle  there.  The  record  tells  us  that  he  preached  the  Gospel 
to  the  spirits  in  prison.  Many  of  those  spirits  were  doubtless  ancestors 
of  people  now  living. 

ORDINANCES  PERFORMED  IN  TEMPLES 

If  it  is  possible  for  us  to  bring  salvation  to  them  by  proxy  through 
the  temple  ordinances,  and  it  is,  ought  we  not  to  be  up  and  doing?  Well, 
the  Latter-day  Saints  are  working  at  the  problem  and  something  definite 
has  been  accomplished. 

There  are  nine  temples  in  the  Church,  the  Kirtland  temple,  the 
Nauvoo  temple,  St.  George,  Manti,  Logan,  Salt  Lake,  the  Hawaiian,  the 
Alberta  and  the  Arizona  temples.  You  will  be  interested  to  know  what 
has  been  done  in  these  temples  covering  the  period  from  Nauvoo  days 
until  the  present  time,  or  until  the  end  of  1935.    The  statement  follows: 


Living 

Dead 

Baptisms   

37,062 

9,740,433 

Endowments   

275,362 

7,104,659 

Ordinations   

3,439 

3,021,797 

Sealings — couples   

136,514 

1,305,612 

Sealings — children   

116,272 

2,156,648 

Adoptions  

2,338 

13,923 

Special  ordinances  

14,777 

6,208 

or  a  total  of  ordinances  for  the  living  of  585,764  and  for  the  dead 
23,349,280,  and  a  grand  total  of  23,935,044  ordinations  and  ordinances 
for  the  living  and  the  dead  in  these  temples. 

SPIRITS  DEPENDING  UPON  US 

That  appears  to  be  a  pretty  good  start.  When,  however,  you  think 
of  the  great  multitude  of  spirits  that  depend  on  their  earthly  children  for 
help,  it  is  evident  that  we  have  hardly  touched  the  problem. 

Let  me  plead  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  not  to  forget  their  temple 
work.  Your  ancestors  are  waiting  upon  you  and  have  been  waiting 
hundreds  of  years,  anxiously,  no  doubt,  for  this  work  to  be  done  for 
them.  It  devolves  upon  you.  What  you  have  received  it  is  up  to  you 
to  give  to  others. 

God  bless  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  congregation  and  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O 
God,  for  a  Prophet." 


ELDER  DANIEL  J.  LANG 


119 


ELDER  DANIEL  J.  LANG 

Former  President  of  the  French  Mission 

It  was  over  three  years  ago  that,  in  company  with  my  wife,  I  left 
home  to  fill  my  third  mission  among  the  French-speaking  people.  This 
missionary  part  of  my  life,  aggregating  over  seven  years,  has  been  a 
rich  experience.  I  am  thankful  to  my  Heavenly  Father  for  the  privilege 
of  having  performed  this  service, — for  the  protection  that  he  has  given 
us  in  our  extensive  travels,  and  for  his  inspiration  that  we  have  felt 
in  our  ministry. 

It  has  been  a  joy  to  see  the  fruits  of  our  labors,  as  made  manifest 
by  the  increased  number  of  baptisms  performed.  As  fast  as  branches 
grew  sufficiently  in  membership  and  in  understanding,  the  local  brethren 
have  been  given  the  priesthood  and  organized  on  a  self-government 
basis.  The  auxiliaries  are  functioning  in  the  French  Mission.  We  now 
have  all  the  auxiliary  organizations  represented,  thanks,  largely,  to  the 
efficient  and  devoted  efforts  of  our  lady  missionaries  who  came  into 
that  mission  recently.  The  recreational  entertainments  given  under  the 
auspices  of  the  Sunday  School,  the  M.  L  A.,  the  Relief  Society,  Primary, 
etc.,  compare  very  favorably  with  the  entertainments  here  at  home — 
of  course  with  our  numbers  very  much  smaller. 

It  is  interesting  to  see  Zion  being  built  and  established  in  Europe, 
and  to  see  the  Latter-day  Saint  ideals  permeating  the  homes  of  the 
faithful  members  of  the  Church.  We  feel  the  wholesome  influence  in 
these  homes,  just  as  fine  and  sweet  as  the  influences  we  find  existing 
in  well  regulated  homes  here.  The  Lord  is  blessing  these  people  by 
inculcating  into  their  hearts  firm  testimonies  of  the  truthfulness  of  the 
Gospel.  They  are  thereby  given  the  strength  to  overcome  many  ob- 
stacles that  beset  the  pathways  of  life  in  which  worldly  influences  are 
very  strong  and  sometimes  tend  to  almost  overwhelm  them. 

We  are  building  churches  in  Europe,  and  these  are  fine  edifices. 
They  are  outstanding  landmarks  that  make  for  stability  among  the  na- 
tions in  which  we  labor.  It  is  gratifying  to  note  the  change  of  sentiment 
in  favor  of  the  Church.  In  traveling,  especially  on  the  steamers,  we 
have  many  occasions  to  engage  in  conversation.  We  find  people  very 
much  more  interested  in  our  work.  In  consequence  of  this,  it  was  our 
joy  in  recent  years  to  find  that  we  have  placed  literature  into  the  hands 
of  many  people  who  have  studied  and  appreciated  it.  People  coming 
from  Algiers,  from  Morocco,  Egypt,  Palestine,  India,  Siam,  China  and 
Japan  have  accepted  eagerly  our  literature.  The  newspapers  are  publish- 
ing items  that  are  very  much  more  favorable  to  the  Mormon  people 
than  formerly.  When  they  publish  things  that  are  untrue,  we  usually 
are  able  to  get  favorable  responses  in  these  newspapers. 

We  are  courteously  received  by  the  officials,  and  as  a  consequence 
we  are  introduced  into  some  of  the  very  best  circles.  Our  greatest 
obstacle,  of  course,  is  the  indifference  among  the  people.  I  feel,  however, 
that  this  indifference  as  to  religious  matters  is  not  greater  in  France 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

than  it  is  in  any  other  country.  The  French  people  may  be  considered 
a  religious  people.  They  are  a  thrifty  people  and  they  are  very  moderate 
in  their  habits.  We  have  learned  to  appreciate  this  condition  very  much. 
I  don't  think  that  the  French  people  are  very  much  different  from  others  ; 
and,  everything  considered,  I  think  the  results  will  be  just  as  great  among 
them  if  we  are  able  to  put  the  effort  in  the  missionary  work  there. 

I  desire  to  say  that  those  in  charge  of  the  Mission  Home  here  and 
especially  those  in  charge  of  our  seminaries  are  very  much  to  be  con- 
gratulated for  the  fine  work  they  are  doing.  The  morale  of  our  French 
missionaries  is  splendid,  and  especially  is  this  true  of  the  Elders  coming 
into  the  field  recently.  I  attribute  this  condition  very  much  to  the  fine 
work  that  is  being  done  in  these  institutions. 

I  would  urge  also  that  our  young  men  be  taught  the  functions  of 
our  auxiliary  organizations  and  especially  the  Relief  Society  for  these 
are  very  valuable  helps  in  proselyting  in  the  world.  We  are  pleased 
to  report  the  excellent  morale  among  our  people  and  especially  among 
our  Elders.  I  believe  that  the  spiritual  development  of  our  Elders  in 
the  French  Mission  is  just  as  great  as  in  any  other  mission  because  the 
opportunities  are  good.  Our  young  men  get  to  love  the  people,  love  the 
country  and  reluctantly  leave  the  mission  field.  I  wish  to  emphasize 
this.  I  find,  also,  that  in  the  mission  field  we  view  with  better  retrospect 
the  great  work  that  is  being  done  here.  Certainly  nowhere  do  ministers 
of  the  Gospel  speak  with  greater  strength,  fervor,  knowledge,  and  au- 
thority, and  convey  greater  conviction  to  the  human  heart  than  the  in- 
struction that  is  given  here  by  our  brethren  in  this  sanctuary  and  its 
dependences.  Nowhere  else  do  men  proclaim  with  such  certainty  and 
with  such  a  firm  conviction  that  God  is  our  Father,  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  They  affirm  that  by  keeping  God's  commandments,  as  he  has 
revealed  them  in  the  latter  days  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  it  will 
produce  the  happiness  and  heart  righteousness  so  much  needed  to  heal 
the  wounds  of  this  woe-stricken  world  today. 

This  message  of  salvation  is  broadcast  by  word  of  mouth  and  sung 
into  the  souls  of  the  human  beings  encircling  the  whole  globe.  It  is 
like  a  pebble  being  thrown  into  a  pool  of  clear  water.  The  waves  go 
afar,  and  we  in  the  mission  field  feel  those  waves.  The  brethren  here 
are  giving  instructions  that  are  valuable  and  they  are  permeating  the 
whole  world,  and  we  feel  the  force  of  this  in  the  mission  field.  I  hope 
that  we  fully  appreciate  the  blessings  that  we  enjoy.  I  am  thankful  to 
be  home  and  to  associate  with  my  brethren.  I  am  thankful  for  the 
opportunity  that  has  come  to  me. 

The  other  day  a  man  who  is  more  or  less  faithful  said,  "I  don't 
know  whether  it  is  worth  while  for  you  men  to  go  out  and  proclaim  the 
Gospel."  He  was  not  living  as  he  should  live,  and  if  he  is  under  the 
sound  of  my  voice  I  wish  to  tell  him  this :  That  no  material  advantage 
can  compare  with  righteous  impulse  and  the  joy  that  is  given  us  in 
going  out  into  the  world  to  do  missionary  work.  I  believe  that  we  are 
building  better  than  we  know,  that  this  great  truth  is  permeating  the 
world,  and  the  time  is  not  far  distant  when  there  shall  be  a  spontaneous 


ELDER  CASTLE  H.  MURPHY 


121 


seeking  for  the  principles  of  righteousness  as  taught  by  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  revealed  in  these  latter  days.  I  believe  that  is  the  only 
way  that  peace  and  joy  can  come  to  this  world. 

May  we  appreciate  our  blessings.  May  we  go  forward  with  fervor. 
May  we  endeavor  to  do  right  in  the  material  things  of  life.  I  rejoice  in 
the  practical  way  in  which  we  apply  the  Gospel.  The  world  is  beginning 
to  sit  up  and  take  notice.  I  hope  that  everyone  will  do  his  duty  fully 
and  that  God  will  give  us  strength  to  carry  on,  and  I  ask  this  in  the 
name  of  Jesus,  Amen. 

ELDER  CASTLE  H.  MURPHY 

Former  President  of  the  Hawaiian  Mission 

Since  my  childhood  it  has  afforded  me  great  joy  to  attend  the  general 
conferences  of  this  Church,  and  because  of  the  thrills  which  have  come 
it  has  been  my  pleasure,  on  various  occasions,  to  invite  my  children  and 
other  people's  children  to  attend  the  conferences  with  me.  This  after- 
noon it  was  my  pleasure  to  bring  two  small  girls  into  the  balcony  that 
they  might  see  the  General  Authorities  of  this  Church,  know  something 
of  their  background,  and  appreciate  the  more  their  testimonies  which 
they  give  to  us  on  these  great  occasions. 

For  six  years  I  have  been  absent  from  these  conferences,  and  I, 
therefore,  am  thrilled  today  in  the  privilege  which  is  mine  to  attend  and 
sit  in  conference  with  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  and  be  lifted  up  and 
built  up  in  my  faith  because  of  the  testimonies  which  are  borne  by  the 
leaders  of  this  great  Church. 

It  is  my  desire  to  report  for  a  moment  the  physical,  spiritual,  and 
moral  progress  in  the  great  mission  which  I  had  the  pleasure  of  serving  in, 
even  that  of  Hawaii.  I  was  called  six  years  ago,  with  my  wife,  to  go  to 
Hawaii  to  preside  over  that  mission,  and  to  preside,  also,  in  the  Temple. 

The  thrills  which  have  come  have  caused  me  to  rejoice  more  than 
I  ever  felt  I  might  rejoice  in  the  testimony  which  has  been  mine  from 
childhood — that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  his  authority 
is  here  in  the  earth  to  guide  the  people  of  these  latter  days. 

The  Hawaiian  Mission  has  progressed  physically.  We  have  built 
in  six  years  eleven  chapels,  four  mission  homes,  renovated  and  changed 
and  improved  eighteen  buildings,  secured  eight  pieces  of  fine  land,  to 
be  used  for  chapel  sites,  from  the  Governor  of  the  territory  and  from  the 
managers  of  the  various  plantations. 

Spiritually  we  have  progressed.  The  people  of  Hawaii  have  mani- 
fested their  appreciation  for  the  organizations  of  this  Church,  for  the 
organizations  which  we  have  been  privileged  to  establish  among  them  and 
for  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God  in  the  various  districts  of  the  mission. 
On  each  island  there  was  organized,  some  five  years  ago,  district  councils, 
composed  of  ten  or  more  men  who,  under  the  direction  of  the  missionaries, 
labor  perhaps  in  a  way  similar  to  that  of  a  stake  presidency  in  Zion, 


122 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


directing  these  councils,  and  they  have  succeeded  in  increasing  the  faith 
of  their  people  to  the  extent  that  already  the  Authorities  of  the  Church 
have  found  it  wise  to  go  to  Hawaii  and  organize  a  stake  there. 

I  rejoice  as  I  read  and  hear  of  the  progress  of  that  mission  and  of 
that  stake — that  the  movement  is  ever  forward.  We  rejoiced  in  Hawaii 
to  have  a  visit  from  the  General  Authorities  of  the  Church.  President 
Grant,  President  Clark,  their  wives  and  their  party  came  to  Hawaii 
and  visited  each  of  the  districts  there.  Many  tears  fell.  The  courage 
of  the  people  was  greatly  increased  because  of  the  fact  that  they  had  the 
privilege  of  touching  the  "hem  of  the  garment"  of  these  fine  men  of  God. 
Later  on,  President  David  O.  McKay  and  his  wife  came  and  inspired  us. 

We  rejoiced  in  their  testimonies  and  I  shall  never  forget  the  thrill 
that  came  to  me  as  these  brethren  went  through  our  mission,  leaving 
their  testimonies,  singing  the  songs  of  Zion  to  the  people  and  permitting 
them  to  look  into  the  faces  and  feel  the  spirit  of  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  even  the  mouthpieces  of  the  living  God.  As  I  contemplated  the 
work  which  they  performed  there  and  the  work  which  they  are  perform- 
ing here,  I  could  not  but  thank  God  for  the  spirit  of  the  present  day  and 
the  spirit  of  times  gone  by. 

If  you  will  look  into  the  scriptures,  you  will  find  that  nearly  2,400 
years  elapsed  from  the  time  of  that  prophecy  of  Daniel,  the  2nd  chapter, 
the  44th  verse,  to  the  effect  that  in  the  days  of  these  kings,  the  God  of 
heaven  shall  set  up  a  kingdom.  2,400  years,  I  say,  elapsed  from  the  time 
of  that  prophecy  until  its  fulfillment. 

Then  again  we  often  quote  from  the  14th  Chapter  of  Revelations, 
the  6th  verse :  that  John  saw  an  angel,  flying  in  the  midst  of  heaven. 
Seventeen  hundred  years  elapsed  from  the  time  of  that  prediction  until 
the  angel  came  to  visit  the  earth  again  and  visited  Joseph  Smith,  the 
Prophet  of  God. 

If  you  will  read  in  I  Kings  (8:41),  you  will  find  that  at  the  time 
of  the  dedication  of  Solomon's  temple,  Solomon,  in  his  prayer,  asked 
God,  our  Eternal  Father,  that  he  would  remember  a  stranger  who 
should  come  there  and  ask  God  that  he  would  hear  the  words  of  his 
prayer  and  answer  those  words  in  behalf  of  that  people.  2,845  years 
elapsed  from  the  time  of  that  statement  until  Orson  Hyde  went  to  the 
Holy  Land  and  dedicated  it  for  the  return  of  the  Jews.  We  do  not  think 
today  that  the  prophecy  of  one  of  those  who  stand  at  the  head  of  the 
Church  should  carry  on  for  many  years. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  stated  thirty  years  before  the  war  between  the 
North  and  South  broke  out — the  Civil  War — that  it  would  come.  A 
very  short  time  after  that  he  stated  that  the  Saints  would  be  driven  to  the 
tops  of  the  Rocky  Mountains.  That  was  fulfilled.  Later  he  said,  "I 
go  like  a  lamb  to  the  slaughter."   That  was  fulfilled  almost  immediately. 

In  this  day  I  have  listened  to  the  mouthpiece  of  God.  I  have  heard 
President  Grant  make  statements  and  promises  to  me,  and  I  say  to  you 
that  within  a  very  short  time  those  promises,  those  prophecies  have  been 
fulfilled.  I  thank  God  for  the  fact  that  I  know  that  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  there  are  prophets  and  that  this  is  the  Church  of  the  living  God. 


ELDER  MILTON  H.  KNUDSEN 


123 


I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  it  has  been  a  joy  to  serve  in  Hawaii 
among  those  loving  and  lovable  people.  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  they 
are  receiving  the  truth  and  rejoicing  in  it  and  that  their  movement  is  ever 
forward. 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  support  those  who  stand  at  our 
head  and  that  we  may  rejoice  in  life  because  of  rendering  that  support,  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MILTON  H.  KNUDSON 

Former  President  of  the  Norwegian  Mission 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters:  I  bring  greetings  to  you  from  the 
land  of  the  midnight  sun  where  we  have  descendants  of  Ephraim, 
a  branch  of  Joseph.  I  feel  in  this  land  we  have,  to  a  very  great 
degree,  the  blood  of  that  noble  son  of  Joseph.  As  we  sang  this  after- 
noon, "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet,"  I  felt  the  same  spirit 
as  when  I  heard  it  sung  in  the  far  north.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to 
you  that  those  people  of  the  north,  when  they  sing  that  same  grand 
and  glorious  song,  they  sing  it  from  the  depths  of  their  hearts,  just  as 
we  do  here.  What  would  you  think  if  you  had  an  assembly  of  several 
hundred  people,  every  one  of  them  being  non-Mormons,  with  the  ex- 
ception of  the  mission  mother  and  father  and  the  two  Elders,  singing 
that  song  and  singing  it  with  a  fervor  such  as  we  hear  it  sung  in  the 
assemblies  of  the  Saints?  That  has  been  our  experience.  Thanks  to 
those  noble  Elders  who  teach  those  people  to  sing  these  song  of  Zion. 

Norway  is  ready  for  the  Gospel.  Thousands  have  come  out  of  that 
country.  There  are  thousands  of  others  that  will  come.  God  is  working 
with  that  people.  Those  people  are  seeking  for  the  Gospel,  but  they 
are  blinded  by  the  craftiness  of  men.  But  the  Father  in  his  kindness 
is  going  to  move  that  veil,  for  those  people  are  noble  sons  and  daughters 
of  God. 

I  bring  a  message  to  you  parents  from  those  fine  sons  of  yours. 
They  are  doing  splendid  work.  They  are  being  well  received  by  the 
people.  I  want  to  bear  testimony  to  you  that  the  work  that  President 
Widtsoe  commenced,  of  having  the  auxiliaries  organized  thoroughly, 
being  manned  by  the  local  brothers  and  sisters,  is  a  very  effective 
program.  Some  of  the  most  effective  work  that  we  have  at  the  present 
time  is  being  done  by  our  auxiliaries.  What  would  you  think  of  a 
Primary  organization,  hundreds  of  miles  north  of  the  Arctic  circle 
consisting  of  ninety  boys  and  girls,  five  nationalities  being  represented, 
and  only  one  of  that  ninety  a  "Mormon"  girl,  with  an  average  weekly 
attendance  of  over  eighty,  meeting  all  through  the  winter  period? 
That  is  what  the  Primary  work  was  doing  in  one  of  our  branches  in 
Norway,  in  the  hands  of  our  Elders  last  winter.  The  M.  I.  A.  work  with 
its  wonderful  program  is  bringing  converts  to  us,  and  as  a  result  of  all 
these  various  activities  the  mission  work  in  that  foreign  land  is  growing. 
Zion  is  being  built  there. 


124 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


I  wish  to  bring  a  testimony  to  you  concerning  the  faith  of  that 
people,  particularly  of  those  sons  and  daughters  of  the  far  north  who 
have  accepted  the  Gospel.  They  believe,  and  they  show  their  belief 
and  their  faith  by  their  acts,  in  paying  their  tithes  and  their  offerings ; 
and  every  man  and  woman  of  that  mission  who  is  paying  tithing  honestly 
has  good  employment.  I  would  like  to  bring  the  testimony  to  you  of  one 
of  our  prominent  brethren  who  is  president  of  one  of  our  districts,  a 
local  brother,  a  very  prominent  merchant,  internationally  known,  who 
said,  "When  I  established  myself  in  this  community,  Trondheim,  I 
was  not  worth  very  much,  financially.  Shortly  after  that  I  joined  the 
Church." 

He  showed  me  a  written  statement  of  the  banking  institutions  of 
that  city,  showing  that  he  was  the  best  recognized  financial  man  of  that 
entire  community.  He  said,  "It  has  been  because  I  have  paid  my 
tithing." 

I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  you  of  the  power  of  healing  among 
that  people ;  that  is,  they  have  faith,  and  through  that  faith,  which  is 
promised  to  us  all,  the  deaf  hear,  evil  spirits  are  driven  out,  the  blind 
receive  their  sight,  and  those  that  may  be  broken  down  in  health  are 
marvelously  healed. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  it  does  one  good  to  know  that  the  God  of 
heaven  recognizes  his  children.  When  you  hear  the  testimonies  of  our 
fine  Elders,  those  sons  of  yours,  in  our  mission  meetings,  and  in  the 
meetings  of  Saints  and  strangers — bearing  testimony  that  when  they 
make  promises,  the  God  of  heaven  recognizes  those  promises  and  they 
are  fulfilled,  it  fills  one's  soul  to  overflowing. 

I  would  like  to  say  a  word  about  the  land  of  Norway.  Many  people 
think  that  if  you  go  to  Norway  you  go  to  a  land  of  bleakness  and  have  to 
live  with  polar  bears.  It  may  surprise  you  to  know  that  during  the 
three  years  that  we  were  there,  we  never  once  saw  zero  (Fahrenheit) 
weather.  The  marvelous  Gulf  Stream  really  has  its  source  in  the  tops 
of  these  Rocky  Mountains ;  the  waters  that  fall  in  the  Rockies  flow  down 
to  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  are  warmed  there  by  the  sun  that  God  has  created 
to  give  light,  flow  up  to  the  north  in  that  mightiest  of  all  rivers  on  the 
earth,  the  gulf  stream,  and  warm  those  shores;  and  those  people  live 
there  in  happiness,  thousands  of  miles  north  of  us. 

It  is  a  goodly  land.  It  is  a  beautiful  land.  If  you  receive  a  call 
to  go  to  that  mission,  accept  it  gladly.  I  want  to  bear  my  personal 
testimony  to  you  that  you  will  not  suffer  from  the  cold  and  you  will 
have  the  happiest  surprise  of  your  life  coming  to  you,  to  see  how  moderate 
the  climate  is  and  to  see  how  profusely  nature  produces  flowers,  fruits 
and  all  kinds  of  vegetables. 

I  know  that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  May  we 
each  and  every  one  resolve  to  follow  the  example  of  that  great  man 
of  God,  Joshua — let  us  this  day  choose  whom  we  will  serve ;  let  us  say 
that  we  will  serve  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  HUGO  D.  E.  PETERSON 


125 


ELDER  HUGO  D.  E.  PETERSON 

Former  President  of  the  Swedish  Mission 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  a  pleasure  to  me  and  a  great  honor 
to  be  called  on  to  report  the  Swedish  Mission.  I  have  walked,  as  it 
were,  in  the  air  since  a  few  days  ago,  when  I  arrived  back  home.  On 
the  afternoon  when  my  wife  and  I  left  for  Sweden  two  years  ago  last 
spring,  we  were  surrounded  by  our  children  and  grandchildren  who 
bade  us  farewell  at  the  station.  The  emotions  we  had  to  fight  back  as  we 
left  them,  we  two  aged,  grey-haired  people  going  out  into  the  cold 
world  to  teach  the  Gospel,  were  quite  different  from  those  that  we  had 
when  we  returned. 

God's  anointed  servant  had  called  us  on  this  mission,  and  who  were 
we  that  we  should  not  be  willing  to  accept? 

We  are  glad  to  be  home  again  among  God's  people,  to  be  among  our 
loved  ones  and  to  see  the  faces  of  our  file-leaders  and  to  hear  their  voices. 
Some  of  my  brethren  have  spoken  and  complimented  themselves  on 
having  the  opportunity  to  come  back  every  six  months  to  be  encouraged 
by  our  leaders  and  to  enjoy  this  beautiful  sight  of  thousands  of  people 
in  the  congregation.  It  is  quite  different  from  being  away  for  two 
and  a  half  years  and  not  having  one  of  our  leaders  visit  us  and  encourage 
us,  but  we  have  had  the  Lord  to  whom  we  could  go,  and  he  has  been 
very  kind  to  us. 

I  also  want  to  bring  greetings  from  our  missionaries  to  their  parents. 
When  I  left  Sweden  we  had  forty-eight  missionaries  in  that  mission, 
besides  the  president  and  his  wife.  Two  are  on  the  way  there  now 
and  there  are  some  more,  I  understand,  ready  to  go.  They  are  doing 
a  fine  labor.  Some  of  them  are  learning  the  language  very  quickly. 
They  are  determined  to  do  their  duty  and  they  are  a  fine  lot  of  young 
men,  most  of  them  at  the  age  between  nineteen  and  twenty-three  years. 

Paul  wrote  once  to  his  young  friend  Timothy,  "Rebuke  not  an 
Elder  but  entreat  him  as  a  father."  My  wife  and  I  have  followed  that 
advice.  Our  missionaries  have  been  like  a  family  to  us,  and  we  love 
them  and  have  found  them  willing  to  do  anything  that  we  asked  them 
to  do. 

The  Swedish  people  are  a  good  people  to  labor  among,  but,  as  Elder 
Gaeth  said  regarding  the  people  in  Czechoslovakia,  they  do  not  like 
religion  very  much.  They  like  pleasure,  and  yet  there  are  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  people  there  looking  for  the  truth. 

"I  am  come  in  my  Father's  name,  and  ye  receive  me  not ;  if  another 
shall  come  in  his  own  name,  him  ye  will  receive."  That  is  pretty  much 
the  condition  in  Sweden  today,  and  for  their  sake — those  who  come 
in  their  own  name  and  introduce  teachings  of  men — I  want  to  continue, 
shall  the  truth  be  spoken  evil  of,  and  it  is,  although  many  are  seeking 
after  it. 

I  am  a  great  believer  in  prayer,  which  I  learned  at  my  mother's 
knee.  When  I  arrived  in  Sweden  in  1934,  there  were  nineteen  mission- 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


aries  in  that  mission,  and  a  number  of  them  were  ready  to  be  released 
to  return  home.  I  wrote  the  president,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  and  asked 
him  to  present  our  case  to  the  First  Presidency  that  we  might  have  some 
more  help  and  assistance.  Shortly  thereafter  I  received  word  from  him 
that  the  depression  was  still  on  and  it  was  hard  to  get  missionaries  to  go 
out  from  home.  He  said,  "It  is  most  likely  that  you  will  not  have  as 
many  missionaries  this  year  as  you  had  last  year  in  the  Swedish  Mission." 

I  turned  to  the  mission  secretary  and  asked,  "How  many  mission- 
aries did  we  get  last  year?" 

He  said,  "We  received  three." 

I  said,  "Nothing  doing.  The  Lord  has  sent  me  here  to  do  his  work 
and  I  cannot  do  it  without  help." 

I  went  before  God  on  my  knees  and  asked  him  for  assistance. 
I  told  him  I  was  willing  to  do  my  part  but  he  must  assist  me.  When  the 
year  was  ended  I  counted  up  and  found  that  we  had  received  fourteen 
Elders.  We  have  now  about  fifty  or  a  few  more  in  that  long  stretched-out 
country  of  six  million  people. 

I  feel  sometimes  that  it  is  a  day  of  gleaning,  and  yet  if  we  had  say 
ten  native  Elders  to  work  with  the  American  Elders  who  are  there 
we  would  do  much  better.  However,  we  have  had  more  baptisms  so  far 
this  year  than  we  had  last  year  at  the  same  time. 

Among  our  missionaries  we  haven't  so  many  of  the  Andersons, 
Petersons,  Johnsons,  Carlsons,  and  so  on,  nowadays  as  we  have  others 
whose  names  are  sometimes  hard  for  the  natives  to  pronounce.  We  have 
Atkinson,  Young,  dinger,  Choates,  Boyd,  Coles,  Barnes,  Wasden,  Crow- 
ther,  Burke,  Cahoon,  Shurtliff,  Newey  and  Cook;  and  the  reason  for 
this  is  that  their  mothers  were  born  in  Sweden  or  of  Swedish  parentage, 
and  they  are  trying  to  redeem  some  of  their  relatives. 

I  wish  to  mention  that  I  believe  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  We 
were  visited  by  Dr.  E.  G.  Peterson  of  Logan,  the  president  of  the  Utah 
State  Agricultural  College,  this  summer.  He  is  a  member  of  one  of 
the  national  clubs.  He  told  me  one  day,  "I  wish  you  would  go  with 
me  to  visit  the  Rotary  Club  tomorrow." 

And  we  went.  I  shall  not  endeavor  to  tell  you  in  one  minute 
what  I  said  in  seven  on  that  occasion.  There  were  present  five  foreigners 
— four  Americans  and  one  Canadian.  I  did  not  enjoy  my  meal  for 
once,  because  I  did  not  know  what  to  say  and  how  to  say  it,  but  Dr. 
Peterson  gave  me  the  key,  and  I  was  happy.  He  had  been  introduced 
as  Peterson  No.  I,  and  I  was  introduced  as  Peterson  No.  2.  I  was  the 
last  speaker. 

He  said,  "I  am  a  Mormon  and  so  is  my  friend,  Mr.  Peterson,"  and 
he  explained  our  belief.  He  told  them  that  he  was  not  there  as  a  repre- 
sentative of  the  Church  on  that  occasion  but  that  I  was,  and  there  was 
no  escaping — I  had  to  represent  the  Church. 

When  the  time  came  for  me  to  speak,  I  said, 

"Gentlemen,  you  were  no  doubt  very  much  surprised  to  have  two 
Mormons  in  your  midst  today." 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


127 


There  were  present  about  fifty  or  sixty  of  the  most  prominent 
men  of  Stockholm. 

"You  have  heard  some  stories  about  our  people  that  are  not  very 
nice  to  repeat.    Isn't  that  true?" 

They  nodded  their  heads  and  smiled. 

"Now  let  me  tell  you  something  about  the  good  side  of  the  Mormons. 
They  must  not  use  tobacco  in  any  form  and  they  cannot  use  liquor 
and  be  good  Latter-day  Saints." 

These  gentlemen  were  smoking  all  around  us  and  they  were  drinking 
their  coffee  and  they  had  a  good  time.   They  laughed  at  what  I  said. 

I  said,  "The  Lord  did  not  mean  you,  particularly,  when  he  spoke 
about  it.    We  all  have  our  free  will,  but  he  advises  us  not  to  use  it." 

Dr.  Peterson  introduced  me  as  a  seventy-five  year  young  man 
and  I  said, 

"I  have  never  used  these  things  and  that  is  perhaps  one  reason 
why  I  have  all  my  faculties  and  all  my  strength." 
I  referred  them  to  the  scripture  which  says : 

"Know  ye  not  that  ye  are  the  temple  of  God,  and  that  the  spirit  of 
God  dwelleth  in  you;  if  any  man  defile  the  temple  of  God,  him  shall 
God  destroy,  for  the  temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple  ye  are" — a 
mighty  good  lesson  to  some  of  our  own  people. 

While  I  was  talking  I  was  surprised  at  being  applauded  several 
times.    After  I  sat  down  the  chairman  stood  up  and  said, 

"I  know  that  the  Mormons  live  these  principles.  One  of  my 
relatives  is  a  Mormon  and  she  repeated  these  things  to  us  often  when 
we  were  in  her  company,  and  I  will  say  this :  If  that  is  true — and  I 
have  no  reason  to  doubt  it — then  we  have  something  to  learn  from  the 
Mormons." 

You  may  imagine  how  happy  I  felt  when  he  said  this,  and  how 
thankful  I  was  that  the  Lord  had  put  words  in  my  mouth  to  speak. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  let  us  be  honest  and  true  to  ourselves.  (The 
clock  before  me  runs  too  fast,  but  it  reminds  me  that  I  am  talking  on 
somebody  else's  time.)  Let  us  be  true  and  honest  to  our  leaders  who. 
night  and  day,  are  planning  for  our  welfare.  Let  us  be  honest  and 
true  to  our  God,  is  my  humble  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  very  grateful  to  Brother  and  Sister  J.  P.  Fugal  of  Pleasant 
Grove  for  these  very  beautiful  flowers.  They  were  sent  to  my  wife,  who 
is  a  Pleasant  Grove  woman. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities 
and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  all  of  whom  were  unanimously 
sustained  as  follows : 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 


Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley 


The  counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  and  the  Twelve  Apostles 
as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


TRUSTEE-IN-TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 


As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Jonathan  G.  Kimball  Antoine  R.  Ivins 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Rufus  K.  Hardy 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 


Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  Presiding  Bishop 
David  A.  Smith,  First  Counselor 
John  Wells,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


129 


CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  Richard  R.  Lyman 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  John  A.  Widtsoe 

David  O.  McKay  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Rudger  Clawson  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  S.  Harris 

Stephen  L.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Franklin  L.  West 
Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  John  F.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

David  A.  Smith,  President;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor;  D. 
Sterling  Wheelwright,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Edward  P.  Kimball  Frank  W.  Asper 

Alexander  Schreiner  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  very  grateful  to  Brother  and  Sister  J.  P.  Fugal  of  Pleasant 
Grove  for  these  very  beautiful  flowers.  They  were  sent  to  my  wife 
who  is  a  Pleasant  Grove  woman. 

EXPRESSES  APPRECIATION  AND  GRATITUDE 

I  want  to  endorse  all  of  the  very  splendid  compliments  that  have 
been  paid  to  the  Choir,  the  organist  and  the  soloists,  and  I  am  very 
grateful  for  the  remarkable  attendance  at  this  conference. 

I  am  particularly  grateful  for  the  rich  outpouring  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  our  Priesthood  meeting  last  night.  It  was  a  marvelous 
sight  to  see  this  entire  building  filled  with  men  who  were  here  because 
of  their  love  of  God  and  their  desire  to  serve  him. 

ASKS  GOD'S  BLESSINGS  UPON  THE  PEOPLE 

So  far  as  it  is  within  my  province,  I  pray  God  to  bless  this  people 
with  whom  I  am  faced  at  the  present  time,  and  to  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints  at  home  and  abroad,  to  prosper  those  that  are  in  the  mission  field 
proclaiming  the  Gospel,  and  to  bless  the  soil  that  it  mav  yield  abundantly. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  may  forgive  each  and  all  who  have  made 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


mistakes.  We  find  recorded  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  "I,  the 
Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will  forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to 
forgive  all  men." 

JOY  COMES  FROM  KEEPING  COMMANDMENTS 

I  have  nothing  but  love  in  my  heart  for  the  Latter-day  Saints; 
I  have  nothing  but  a  desire  for  their  welfare  here  and  hereafter,  and  one 
of  the  principal  reasons  that  I  have  pleaded  and  continued  to  plead  with 
the  people  to  serve  God  is  because  it  is  the  duty  of  every  human  being, 
young  or  old.  The  Lord  blesses  us  with  the  spirit  of  joy  when  we  keep 
his  commandments.  "Man  is  that  he  might  have  joy,"  and  obedience 
to  the  laws  of  God  brings  supreme  joy. 

IN  BEHALF  OF  ELDER  HINCKLEY 

I  desire  to  express  my  particular  joy  and  gratitude  that  Brother 
Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  was  able  to  be  with  us  for  a  short  time  this  after- 
noon, and  I  ask  for  a  continuation  of  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  people 
in  behalf  of  Brother  Hinckley.  May  we  continue  to  supplicate  the  Lord 
to  give  him  back  that  vigor  of  body  and  of  mind  and  that  wonderful 
force  of  character  and  integrity  and  devotion  that  he  has  manifested  all 
the  days  of  his  life. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  attend  us  one  and  all  until  we  meet 
here  again  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer, 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus,"  from  the  "Messiah" 
(Handel). 

Elder  Henry  C.  Jacobs,  President  of  the  North  Sevier  Stake  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months  


The  music  of  the  Conference  was  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall,  Conductor  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  assisted  by  D.  Sterling 
Wheelwright,  Assistant  Tabernacle  Choir  Conductor.  The  singing  at  the 
Saturday  sessions  by  the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers  was  conducted 
by  Sister  Charlotte  O.  Sackett. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper,  assisted  by  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Ot- 
terstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 

Authorities  Present   1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of  128 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   99 

A  Testimony,  99 — Christ's  visit  to  the  Nephites,  100 — A  Latter-day- 
Visitation,  101 — Gives  Testimony,  102. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  0   92 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  106 

Service  the  price  of  contentment,  106 — An  illustration  of  unselfish- 
ness, 107. 

Cannon,  Bishop  Sylvester  Q   80 

The  President  an  ambassador  of  good-will,  80 — Ways  and  means 
of  removing  prejudice,  80 — Bureau  of  Information,  Temple  Square, 
80 — Tabernacle  Broadcasts,  81 — Church  Historical  Monuments, 


81 — Scientific  developments  in  communication,  81 — Greater  prog- 
ress in  Prospect,  82 — Messages  to  be  conveyed  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth,  82 — Growth  of  the  Church,  82 — Improvement  in  tithe- 
paying,  83 — Observance  of  Fasting  and  Fast  offerings,  83 — What 
fast  offering  represents,  83 — Extent  of  relief,  84 — Splendid  efforts 
of  Relief  Society,  84 — Self-sacrifice  of  Stake  and  Ward  officers, 
85 — Spiritual  welfare  of  our  children,  85 — Training  in  the  priest- 
hood, 85. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers    16 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  Ill 

Faithfulness  of  Choir  commended,  111 — Purpose  of  the  Security 
Plan,  112 — Work  the  law  of  this  earth,  112 — Relief  Society  and 
Priesthood  praised,  112 — True  heroes,  113 — Gospel  an  individual 
plan,  113 — Light  grows  with  righteous  living,  114 — Widespread 
interest,  114. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger  115 

The  Latter-day  Saints  a  blessed  people,  115 — Clothed  with  Divine 
authority,  116 — Ordinances  of  Life  and  Salvation,  116 — Our  ob- 
ligation to  the  dead,  117 — The  coming  of  Elijah,  117 — Gathering 
of  Genealogy,  117 — Ordinances  performed  in  the  temple,  118 — 


Spirits  depending  on  us,  118. 

Colton,  Elder  Don  B   19 

Daynes,  Elder  Joseph  J   56 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   25 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Presidency,  Message  of   2 

Gaeth,  Elder  Arthur   .  109 

General  Authorities  o£  the  Church  128 

General  Authorities  Present   1 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  128 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   2 


Message  of  the  First  Presidency,  2 — Honest  labor,  6 — Quotes 
Brigham  Young,  6 — The  Constitution  inspired,  6 — Commends  in- 
crease in  tithes  and  offerings,  7 — Gratitude  for  change  in  sentiment, 
7 — Experience  with  London  editor,  7 — Honored  at  convention,  9 — 
Experiences  in  Japan,  10 — Meets  minister,  11 — Writes  reply,  11 — 
Visit  to  Canada,  11 — Dedication  of  Pioneer  Monument,  12 — 
Growth  of  Church,  12 — The  Townsend  Plan,  13 — Hymns  worth 
memorizing,  14 — Work  a  benefit,  14 — Makes  an  appeal,  15 — A 


Testimony,  15. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   19 

Mission  Presidents  to  speak,  19. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   53 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   86 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   94 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  102 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  110 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  127 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  129 

Expresses  appreciation  and  gratitude,  129 — Asks  God's  blessings 
upon  the  people,  129 — Joy  comes  from  keeping  commandments, 
130 — Elder  Alonzo  A.  Hinckley  mentioned,  130. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K   68 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S   21 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   90 

Kirkham,  Elder  James  M   53 

Knudsen,  Elder  Milton  H  123 

Lang,  Elder  Daniel  J  119 

McKay,  President  David  0   16 

Reads  changes  in  Church  officers.  16. 


INDEX  133 

McKay,  President  David  0  102 

The  Church  Security  Plan,  103 — Spirituality  in  adversity,  103 — 
Contemplation  of  plan  gives  spiritual  uplift,  104 — Spirituality  ex- 
pressed in  giving,  104. 

Murphy,  Elder  Castle  H  121 

Peterson,  Elder  Hugo  D.  E  125 

Peterson,  Elder  James  M   62 

Quinney,  Elder  Joseph,  Jr   36 

^ich,  Elder  Abel  S   41 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   48 

Appreciation  for  blessings,  48 — Certainty  came  with  visit  of  Father 
and  Son,  48 — Gospel  not  always  accepted,  48 — Belief  in  God  as  a 
personal  being,  49 — Need  for  new  revelation,  49 — Fulness  of 
Gospel  revealed,  50 — First  principles  of  Gospel,  50— Going  on  to 
perfection,  52. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    22 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L    28 


Certainty  came  with  first  vision,  28 — Joseph  Smith's  conception 
of  Priesthood,  29 — New  concepts  through  Latter-day  Saint  revela- 
tion, 30 — The  purpose  of  temple  work,  31 — Wisdom  shown  in 
Church  organization,  32 — The  Writings  of  Joseph  Smith,  32 — 
Joseph  Smith  chosen  of  God,  32 — A  charge  to  be  true,  33. 


Richards,  Elder  Wilford  W   38 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  meeting   70 

Second  Day,  Morning  meeting   47 

Smith,  Bishop  David  A   26 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert    71 


Eternal  happiness  through  obedience  and  service,  71 — Destroyed 
because  of  wickedness,  71 — Experience  of  Jacob  and  his  sons, 
72 — Princes  of  Israel — disobedience  and  destruction,  72 — At  the 
time  of  the  Savior,  72 — The  descendants  of  Lehi,  73 — Modern 
prophets  and  experiences,  73 — No  safety  except  in  righteousness, 
75— The  Lord  intends  we  shall  work,  75— What  of  the  future?  76 
— Happiness  in  proportion  to  righteousness,  77. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  

Endorses  Church  Security  Plan,  59— An  Anthropomorphic  God, 
60 — Bound  by  law,  61 — Every  man's  privilege,  61 — Only  through 
compliance  with  fundamental  truths,  61. 

Smith,  Elder  Nicholas  G  


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Smoot,  Elder  Reed   

Importance  of  service,  94 — The  burden  of  debt,  95 — The  humble 
home  of  a  President,  96 — A  prayer  for  blessing,  96. 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  


Third  Day,  Morning  meeting  

Wells,  Bishop  John  

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S  

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A  

Man  a  child  of  God,  97 — Were  man's  origin  and  destiny  under- 
stood, 98 — Individual  Responsibility,  98. 

Williams,  Elder  Orlando  C  

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S  

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar  


Taylor,  Elder  John  H  

Third  Day,  Afternoon  meeting 


1 


1 


A  Few  off  the  Books  that  will 
Help  You  to  Understand 
"Mormonism'' 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same  but  there  are  added  features  which  make  the  edition  more  complete. 

Missionary  Edition    g  5q 

Cloth  binding,  embossed      1  jq 

Full  Morocco    _  3  00 

The  Cospel  and  Man's  Relationship  to 

Deity 

BY  B.  H.  ROBERTS 

"It  is  to  place  within  their  reach  a  brief  and  simple  exposition  of  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  that  this  work  has  been  prepared,  and  is  now  presented  to  the 
youth  of  Zion;  and  it  is  the  earnest  hope  of  the  author  that  by  a  patient  perusal  of 
these  pages  those  who  now  believe  the  Gospel  will  find  their  faith  strengthened  and 
confirmed;  and  those  who  do  not  believe  it  will  be  convinced  of  its  truth." 

Price   $1.25 

The  Story  and  Philosophy  of 
"Mormonism" 

BY  JAMES  E.  TALMAGE 

Comprising  "The  Story"  as  told  in  addresses  at  Cornell  and  Michigan  Universities 
and  elsewhere,  followed  by  an  address  delivered  at  the  Panama-Pacific  Exposition, 
entitled  "The  Philosophical  Basis  of  'Mormonism.'  " 

Cloth  $  .75 

In  Search  of  Truth 

BY  ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE  OF  THE  QUORUM  OF  THE  TWELVE 

Bound  in  Art  Cloth   $1.00 

This  new  book  answers  the  questions,  "What  is  Science"  and  "How  does  the 
Church  view  Science."    A  practical  book  for  our  THINKING,  young  people. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


