OnsL  diundhsuci  VUnih. 


annual 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

OphiL  6,  7,  9,  7939 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

The  OLD  WITH  the  NEW  and  the  NEW  WITH  the  OLD 

JhsL  (Book.  jo£  Tn&unotL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  $  .50 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 

3>AOJ7L  (plowJboif  to  (pADpJwt 

AND 

yYbihsUL  SioMGA.  Jjwwl  ihn  Book  ofc  TJTjoAnwiL 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  of  the  stories 
that  children  love  to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth.  $1.25 

Jisu^  to  Jh&oloqif 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  waranted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  as  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

JhsL  U)ohtL  ofc  Wi&donL 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTOSE  and  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 

"A  Modern  Interpretation  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  showing  that  the  learning 
of  the  last  century  confirms  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  to  enlighten 
the  individual  towards  a  conservation  of  health." 

Price  in  Cloth  Binding  $1.25 

In  Paper  Binding   50 


DESERET  SOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY.  UTAH 


One  Hundred  Ninth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  and  Ninth  Annual  Conference  .of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ,  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  Thursday,  Friday,  and  Sunday,  April  6,  7,  and  9,  1939. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  of  the  Conference  were 
broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of  Salt  Lake 
City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  generally. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  Heber  J.  Grant,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
and  David  O.  McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Melvin  J.  Ballard, 
John  A.  Widtsoe,  Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  and  Albert  E. 
Bowen. 

Associate  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles :  Sylvester  Q.  Can- 
non. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy :  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus 
K.  Hardy,  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric:  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ash- 
ton,  and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :  Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education,  and  General,  Stake, 
and  Ward  officers  of  the  auxiliary  organizations. 

Mission  Presidents :  Frank  Evans,  Eastern  States ;  Bryant  S. 
Hinckley,  Northern  States ;  David  A.  Broadbent,  North  Central  States ; 
Carl  F.  Eyring,  New  England;  Elias  S.  Woodruff,  Central  States; 
El  Ray  L.  Christiansen,  Texas ;  William  T.  Tew,  Jr.,  East  Central 
States ;  William  W.  Seegmiller,  Western  States ;  W.  Aird  Macdonald, 
California;  Preston  Nibley,  Northwestern  States;  David  A.  Smith, 
Canada ;  A.  Lorenzo  Anderson,  Mexico ;  Orlando  C.  Williams,  Spanish- 
American  ;  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  Temple  Block,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Thursday  morning,  April  6. 

When  the  time  arrived  for  the  opening  of  the  Conference,  the  great 
Tabernacle  auditorium  and  galleries  were  crowded  with  people  who  had 
assembled  from  the  various  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church. 

The  first  session  commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock,  with  President 
Heber  J.  Grant  presiding.  The  President  announced  that  the  music 
for  this  session  of  the  Conference  would  be  furnished  by  the  Singing 
Mothers,  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Director,  Alta  B.  Cassity,  Pianist. 

The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Now  Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 

Elder  E.  Frank  Birch,  former  president  of  the  Tintic  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

An  anthem,  "Blessed  be  the  Lord  God  of  Israel,"  was  sung  by  the 
Singing  Mothers,  Irene  Cummings,  soloist. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Read  for  the  consideration  and  information  of  the  Conference  the 
Financial  and  Statistical  Report  of  the  Church,  as  follows : 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

The  expenditures  by  the  Church  for  the  year  1938 : 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes: 

There  has  been  returned  from  the  tithes  to  the  stakes  and 
wards  for  the  construction  of  ward  and  stake  meeting 

houses  :  $  926,863.15 

For  ward  maintenance  expenses   835,486.65 

For  stake  maintenance  expenses   253,950.24 


Total   $2,016,300.04 

Missionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  missions  $1,116,006.02 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system  $  862,633.98 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  temples  $  404,582.26 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY  3 

Hospitals : 

Expended  for  the  erection  and  improvement  of  hospital 

buildings  (included  in  Church  Welfare  Program)  $  67,987.67 

Relief  Assistance: 

For  direct  aid  in  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other 
charitable  purposes,  including  hospital  treatment. 
(From  tithing  funds  only.  Included  in  Church  Wel- 
fare Program)   $  572,898.61 

Total  $5,040,408.58 


Which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  stakes 
and  wards,  mission  activities,  for  the  maintenance  and 
operation  of  Church  schools,  and  temples,  for  hos- 
pital buildings  and  relief  assistance. 

FAST  OFFERING  INFORMATION 


1938  1937  Increase  Percent 

Fast  offerings  paid  in 

wards   $395,200.59  $296,443.67  $  98,756.92  33.3 

Fast  offerings  paid  in 

missions                   35,971.52  34,441.48        1,530.04  4.4 


Total  fast  offerings  $431,172.11  $330,885.15  $100,286.96  30.3 
Number  who  paid  fast 

offerings  in  wards..  162,582  151,056  11,526  7.6 
Number  who  paid  fast 

offerings  in  missions       22,173  21,654              519  2.4 


Total  who  paid 
fast  offerings..      184,755         172,710  12,045  7.0 

Average  fast  offerings 

per  capita  in  wards..         72.9c  55.4c  17.5c 

Stakes  with  highest  per 
capita  fast  offering : 

Maricopa   $1.74 

Bonneville   1.56 

Kanab    1.39 

San  Francisco    1.31 

New  York   1.30 

South  Davis   1.24 

Shelley    1.19 

Curlew    1.18 

St.  George   1.12 

Wells   1.12 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  _  First  Day 

Twenty-one  stakes  and 

239   wards  paid 

$1.00  or  more  per 

capita. 
Missions   with  highest 

per    capita  fast 

offerings : 

Membership  under  1,500 

Japanese   $2.06 

Czechoslovakia   1.19 

Palestine-Syrian  62 

Argentine   46 

Membership  over  1,500 

Swiss  84 

West  German   .60 

East  German  53 

Eastern  States   52 

SUMMARY— ERECTION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  OF 
CHURCH  BUILDINGS 

Appropriated  for  ward  and  stake  buildings,  seminaries 


and  institutes  $1,238,972.99 

Amount  raised  locally   790,422.60 

Appropriated  for  hospital  buildings   56,549.00 

Improvements  in  temples   197,908.54 

Expended  for  mission  buildings  and  real  estate   217,486.43 


Total  -  $2,501,339.56 


(Some  of  above  expenditures  included  in  Church 
Welfare  Program.) 

STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  COMPILED  FROM  THE 
ANNUAL  REPORTS  FOR  THE  YEAR  1938 

There  were  on  December  31,  1938:  126  stakes  of  Zion,  (at  the 
present  time  127),  1.036  wards;  101  independent  branches,  or  a  total  of 
1,137  wards  and  branches  in  the  stakes  of  Zion;  also  35  missions;  957 
mission  branches,  and  243  districts. 

CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 


Stakes  632,994 

Missions   151,770 

Total  784,764 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in 

stakes  and  missions  22,122 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


5 


Children  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions  15,613 

Converts  baptized  in  the  stakes  and  missions  !   8,259 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31,  1938-  2,151 
Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 1938..  28 
Number  of  local  missionaries    78 


Total  number  of  missionaries  in  the  missions  of  the  Church   2,257 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  stakes   2,067 


Total  missionaries    4.324 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Missionary 

Home    1,152 

Persons  recommended  to  the  temples  from  the  stakes  85,313 


SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate  30.9  per  thousand. 
Marriage  rate,  17.0  per  thousand. 
Death  rate  6.8  per  thousand. 
Families  owning  their  own  homes,  59.9  % . 

EXPENDED  FOR  THE  MAINTENANCE  OF  MISSIONARIES 


Collected  by  wards  and  paid  to  missionaries  $  94,001.27 

Average  cost  per  missionary,  1938,  $31.00  per  month  or  a 
total  of  $372.00  per  year  per  missionary.  Average 
number  of  misisonaries,  2,089,  making  a  total  average 

expense  for  the  year  of    777,108.00 

Estimated  possible  earnings  per  missionary  $900.00  per  year 
multiplied  by  2,089,  average  number  of  missionaries, 
makes  an  estimated  total  of  what  these  missionaries 
might  have  earned  if  at  home  of   1,880,100.00 


Total  estimated  contribution  of  missionaries  and  their 

families  for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  $2,751,209.27 

CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

(Including  all  Church  Welfare  Work) 

Total  Church  membership  in  stakes  and  missions,  men,  women, 

and  children  :  784,764 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  fast  offerings 
to  help  the  needy : 

In  wards  162,582 

In  missions  -   22,173 


Total  184,755 

Amount  of  voluntary  fast  offerings 
In  wards 

Cash  $305,719.27 


6  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Dag 

Produce   89,481.32 

In  missions 

Cash  $  35,971.52 


Total  (all  expended  for  relief)  $431,172.11 

Other  donations  to  the  Church  Welfare  Program   58,460.66 

Assistance  rendered  by  Relief  Society: 

In  actual  disbursements  to  needy   92,501.62 

In  carrying  on  general  work  of  this  society   345,581.33 

Additional  assistance  extended  to  Church  Building  Program 
(wards,  stakes,  and  missions)  by  increasing  from  50  to 

60%  the  Church's  contribution  to  the  program   184,875.06 

Expended  from  the  tithes,  mostly  by  local  officers   329,666.45 

Expended  directly  by  the  Church  Welfare  Committee   243,232.16 

Expended  for  the  erection,  extension,  and  improvement  of 

hospitals  and  caring  for  the  sick  therein   141,881.68 


Total  $1,827,371.07 

Increase  over  1937    324,916.90 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  the  following  supplies  had  been 
assembled  and  were  on  hand  December  31,  1938,  and  are 
available  for  the  needy  during  the  year  1939. 

CLOTHING  AND  BEDDING 

Estimated  Value 

Men's  clothing,  pieces   5,884    $  2,331.65 

Women's  clothing,  pieces    6.057  1,526.57 

Children's  clothing,  pieces   4,979  1,075.72 

Quilts  and  miscellaneous  items   4,464.56  9,398.50 

CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  cans  1,002,888  96,583.58 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  bottles   21.445  2,393.77 

Dried  fruits  and  vegetables,  lbs   82,599       4,562.94  103,540-29 

OTHER  PRODUCE 

Flour,  pounds   201,381  3,084.80 

Potatoes,  pounds   646,779  4,615.31 

Grain,  pounds   224,879  1,912.50 

Other  vegetables,  pounds   77,317  579.87 

Meat,  pounds    4,446         533.52  10,726.00 

FUEL  AND  LUMBER 

Coal,  pounds   761,303  1,429.27 

Wood,  cords    435  2,176.00 

Lumber    180.00  3,785.27 


Total  on  hand  December  31,  1938 


$127,450.06 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY  7 

THE  CHURCH  UNEMPLOYMENT  SITUATION  AS  OF 
DECEMBER  31,  1938,  IS  AS  FOLLOWS 

Employable  needing  employment,  Jan.  1,  1938   7.760 

Employable  needing  employment,  Dec.  31,  1938   6,817 

Skilled  workmen  unemployed,  Dec.  31,  1938   1.030 

Unskilled  workmen  unemployed,  Dec.  31,  1938   5,787 

Heads  of  families  needing  employment    6,406 

Number  employed  during  year  '.   3,322 

Number  of  persons  used  on  Church  Work  Projects  during  year   4,340 

Number  of  persons  assisted  by  Bishops,  Relief  Society,  and  the 

General  Committee  agencies  56,472 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST 
OCTOBER  CONFERENCE 

New  Stakes  Organized : 

Nampa  Stake  was  organized  November  27,  1938  by  a  division  of 
Boise  Stake.  It  consists  of  Caldwell  and  Homedale  Independent  Branches 
and  Kuna,  Melba,  Nampa  First  and  Nampa  Second  Wards. 

Weiser  Stake  was  organized  November  27,  1938  by  a  division  of 
Boise  Stake.  It  consists  of  Emmett,  Letha,  Nyssa,  Ontario  and  Weiser 
Wards  and  Vale  Independent  Branch. 

Boise  First,  Boise  Second,  Boise  Third,  Glenns  Ferry  Wards  and 
Meridian  Branch  retained  in  the  Boise  Stake. 

Provo  Stake  created  February  19,  1939  by  a  division  of  the  Utah 
Stake.  This  new  stake  consists  of  Provo  First,  Provo  Fifth,  Manavu 
and  Bonneville  Wards. 

Provo  Second,  Third,  Fourth,  and  Sixth  and  Pioneer  Wards  retained 
in  the  Utah  Stake. 

New  Stake  Presidents  appointed : 

Silas  L.  Wright  appointed  president  of  the  Montpelier  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Edward  C.  Rich. 

Ezra  T.  Benson  appointed  president  of  the  Boise  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Scott  B.  Brown. 

Peter  E.  Johnson  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized  Nampa 
Stake. 

Scott  B.  Brown  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized  Weiser 
Stake. 

Charles  W.  Dunn  appointed  president  of  the  Logan  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Anthon  E.  Anderson. 

Charles  E.  Rowan,  Jr.  appointed  president  of  the  newly  organized 
Provo  Stake. 

Royal  J.  Murdock  appointed  president  of  the  Utah  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Thomas  N.  Taylor. 

Z.  Reed  Millar  appointed  president  of  the  Boise  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Ezra  T.  Benson. 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

Carl  Daniel  Greenhalgh  appointed  president  of  the  Santaquin-Tintic 
Stake  to  succeed  President  E.  Frank  Birch. 

New  Wards  Organized: 

Phoenix  Fourth  Ward,  Phoenix  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Phoenix  First  Ward. 

Boise  Fourth  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  the  Boise 
Second  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards : 

Meridian  Ward,  Boise  Stake,  formerly  independent  branch  of  the 
same  stake. 

Vale  Ward,  Weiser  Stake,  formerly  independent  branch  of  the 
same  stake. 

Wards  Transferred: 

Santaquin  First,  Santaquin  Second  and  Genola  Wards  of  the  Nebo 
Stake  transferred  to  the  Santaquin-Tintic  Stake. 

Stake  Name  Changed: 

Tintic  Stake  changed  to  Santaquin-Tintic  Stake. 

Ward  Name  Changed : 

Hanna  Ward,  Duchesne  Stake,  was  formerly  known  as  Redcliff 
Ward. 

Garden  Park  Ward,  Bonneville  Stake,  was  formerly  known  as 
Gilmer  Park  Ward. 

New  Independent  Branches  Organized : 

Coolidge  Branch,  Maricopa  Stake,  and  Superior  Branch,  Maricopa 
Stake  were  transferred  from  California  Mission. 

Redwood  City  Branch,  San  Francisco  Stake,  created  by  making  a 
division  of  Burlingame  and  Palo  Alto  Wards  of  that  stake. 

Pershing  Branch,  Alberta  Stake,  was  formerly  a  dependent  branch  of 
Woolford  Ward. 

Clifton-Morenci  Branch,  Mount  Graham  Stake,  created  by  a  division 
of  the  Duncan  Ward  of  that  stake. 

Warner  Branch,  Taylor  Stake,  organized  from  members  of  former 
Coutts  Branch,  Milk  River  district  and  members  living  west  and  south 
of  Tyrells  Lake. 

Ward  Made  Independent  Branch  : 

Lebanon  Branch,  Mount  Graham  Stake,  was  formerly  a  ward  of 
same  stake. 

Wards  Disorganized: 

Blackpine  Ward,  Curlew  Stake,  and  Juniper  Ward,  Curlew  Stake 
discontinued.    Members  moved  away. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


9 


Independent  Branch  Disorganized : 

Mohrland  Branch,  Emery  Stake,  discontinued;  members  moved  to 
other  wards  of  the  Church. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away: 

Julia  S.  Budge  Nibley,  widow  of  President  Charles  W.  Nibley. 

Dr.  Frederick  J.  Pack,  Deseret  Professor  of  Geology  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Utah  and  member  of  General  Board  of  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union. 

Alice  Louise  Reynolds,  former  member  of  the  General  Board  of 
the  Relief  Society  and  former  editor  of  the  Relief  Society  Magazine; 
Professor  of  Literature  at  the  Brigham  Young  University. 

Dr.  George  W.  Middleton,  founder  and  director  of  the  Utah  Pioneer 
Trails  and  Landmarks  Association  and  a  member  of  the  executive 
committee  of  the  Oregon  Trail  and  Landmarks  Association ;  a  member 
of  the  executive  committee  and  chairman  of  the  historical  committee  of 
the  Sons  of  Utah  Pioneers;  member  of  Church  Old  Folks  Committee 
and  Chairman  of  Finance  Committee. 

Julia  Murdock  Farnsworth,  former  member  of  Relief  Society 
General  Board,  a  charter  member  and  founder  of  Daughters  of  the 
American  Revolution,  Daughters  of  Pioneers,  and  Daughters  of  the 
Mormon  Battalion. 

Adella  Woolley  Eardley,  one  of  the  first  members  of  the  Retrench- 
ment Society  and  former  member  of  the  Y.  W.  M.  I.  A.  General  Board. 

Wilma  Jeppson,  member  of  Primary  General  Board  and  associate 
professor  of  physical  education  f  or  women  at  Brigham  Young  University. 

Dr.  Ellis  Reynolds  Shipp,  one  of  the  first  woman  doctors  in  the 
West  and  teacher  in  first  nurses  home  in  Utah. 

Joseph  Don  Carlos  Young,  son  of  Brigham  Young  and  Church 
Architect  for  fifty  years. 

George  N.  Finch,  First  Counselor  in  Tintic  Stake  Presidency. 

Adelbert  Bigler,  Second  Counselor  in  Sharon  Stake  Presidency. 

Edward  H.  Holt,  Stake  Clerk  of  the  Utah  Stake. 

Bishop  George  Edwin  Coxe,  bishop  of  Mt.  Olympus  Ward,  Cotton- 
wood Stake. 

Bishop  Edward  H.  Chambers,  Ogden  Thirteenth  Ward,  Ogden 
Stake. 

Bishop  Osmond  Buchanan  of  the  Blackf  oot  Second  Ward,  Blackf  oot 
Stake. 

Bishop  David  P.  Howells,  Wilshire  Ward,  Hollywood  Stake. 
Bishop  Leonard  C.  Healy,  Pleasant  Green  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

REPORT  OF  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  5,  1939 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  and  Counselors 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
Dear  Brethren : 

We  have  examined  the  financial  report  of  the  Church  for  the  year 
1938,  which  covers  also  the  Presiding  Bishop's  department. 

We  heartily  commend  the  accounting  system,  which  is  modern  and 
complete. 

The  financial  condition  of  the  Church  is  sound.  None  of  its  prop- 
erties are  encumbered,  by  mortgage  or  otherwise.   It  has  no  indebtedness. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
(Signed)  Orval  W.  Adams, 

Harold  H.  Bennett, 
George  S.  Spencer, 
Albert  E.  Bowen, 

Auditing  Committee. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference  the  General  Authorities  and 
General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the  General  Auxiliary  Officers,  and 
they  were  unanimously  sustained,  as  follows  : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator;  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 


PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 


Rudger  Clawson 


COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  Melvin  J.  Ballard 

George  Albert  Smith  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  F.  Richards  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Charles  A.  Callis 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Sylvester  Q.  Cannon,  associate  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


11 


ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  THE  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles,  and 
the  acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Revelators. 


TRUSTEE  IN  TRUST 


Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee  in  Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 


Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Richard  L.  Evans 

PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 


Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants:  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 


CHURCH  BOARD   OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 


COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 


SEMINARY  SUPERVISOR 

M.  Lynn  Bennon 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President ;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor ; 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE.  COMMITTEE 


ADVISERS 


Melvin  J.  Ballard  John  H.  Taylor 

John  A.  Widtsoe  LeGrand  Richards 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

General  Presidency  of  the  Relief  Society 


GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 

Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Campbell  M.  Brown  Wm.  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Louise  Y.  Robison,  President 
Amy  Brown  Lyman,  First  Counselor 
Kate  M.  Barker,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


13 


YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Anderson,  Superintendent 
Isabelle  S.  Ross,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Edith  Hunter  Lambert,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


"He  Died,  the  Great  Redeemer  Died,"  was  sung  by  the  Singing 
Mothers,  Bessie  Morley,  soloist. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

MARVELOUS  RECORD  OF  ATTENDANCE  AT  CONFERENCES 

I  hold  in  my  hand  a  letter  from  Brother  Walter  Cox  of  Provo.  He 
has  attended  121  annual  and  semi-annual  Conferences.  He  is  82  years 
of  age,  is  a  full  tithepayer,  and  pays  a  full  Fast  donation.  He  has  not 
spent  five  dollars  on  doctor  bills,  and  has  traveled  25,000  miles  to  attend 
these  conferences.  That  is  a  very  remarkable  record.  I  am  perhaps 
safe  in  saying  that  he  holds  the  record,  never  having  missed  a  Conference 
in  sixty  years. 

I  am  very  happy  to  be  here;  very  happy  to  see  this  marvelous 
audience.  I  have  thoroughly  enjoyed — although  statistics  are  a  little 
tedious — the  remarkable  and  wonderful  report  of  the  accomplishments  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints  during  the  past  year.  I  am  convinced  that  no  other 
people  in  all  the  world  can  compare  with  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  giving 
actual,  practical  demonstration  of  faith  in  the  Gospel,  of  their  willingness 
to  labor  for  it,  and  of  their  willingness  to  contribute  of  their  time  and  their 
means  for  the  advancement  and  spread  of  the  Gospel  at  home  and  abroad. 
It  is  almost  unbelievable  that  we  could  do  as  much  as  has  been  reported 
here  today,  running  up  into  the  millions  of  dollars.  We  had  a  very 
severe  and  bad  year  because  of  the  low  price  of  our  products,  and  yet, 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

lo  and  behold,  the  actual  tithes  and  Fast-day  donations  paid  are  the 
greatest  we  have  had,  better  than  last  year. 

INDIVIDUAL  TESTIMONIES  OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

My  heart  goes  out  in  gratitude  to  all  those  who  are  working  at  home 
and  abroad  for  the  spread  of  the  Gospel. 

I  am  very  thankful  indeed  that  we  have  the  truth.  I  am  very 
grateful  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  all  over  the  world  have  a  personal, 
individual  and  abiding  testimony  of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we 
are  engaged.  But  for  that  testimony  men  would  not  think,  or  women 
either,  of  making  the  marvelous  sacrifices  that  they  do  make  at  home 
and  abroad,  for  the  advancement  of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  have  mentioned  it  time  and  time  again,  but  I  never  tire  of  referring 
to  it,  that  we  have  been  preaching  the  Gospel  now  for  over  a  hundred 
years,  and  I  have  yet  to  know  of  any  individual  who  has  gone  out  to 
proclaim  the  Gospel  who  has  been  converted  to  some  other  faith.  What 
a  marvelous  thing  that  is !  Unless  we  had  the  truth  this  could  not  have 
been  accomplished.  We  have  had  men  of  great  intelligence,  of  great 
knowledge,  men  who  have  been  connected  with  other  churches,  who, 
when  they  heard  the  Gospel  have  received  it,  and  in  answer  to  their 
prayers  and  supplications  they  have  obtained  individual  testimonies  of 
the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  are  engaged. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  ORSON  PRATT  AND  OTHER  LEADERS 

Orson  Pratt  was  one  of  the  great  astronomers  of  the  world,  one  of 
the  great  mathematicians,  one  of  the  greatest  students  of  languages,  a 
man  with  a  better  knowledge  of  the  Bible,  I  believe,  than  almost  any 
other  man  in  his  day  and  generation,  and  when  we  think  of  this  Gospel 
capturing  men  of  that  kind,  it  is  a  source  of  gratitude  to  us.  I  am 
grateful  when  I  think  of  the  men  who  have  stood  at  the  head  of  this 
Church  and  the  leading  officials  of  the  same,  giving  their  time  and  their 
talents,  making  sacrifices  (that  is,  sacrifices  so  far  as  the  things  of  this 
world  are  concerned),  and  having  a  perfect  and  abiding  knowledge  that 
God  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  our  prayers ;  having  a  knowledge, 
beyond  a  shadow  of  doubt  that  God  did  appear  to  Joseph  Smith  and  did 
introduce  his  Son  to  him ;  having  a  perfect  knowledge  that  the  Aaronic 
and  Melchizedek  Priesthoods  were  restored  to  the  earth  by  the  men  who 
held  the  keys  in  the  Meridian  of  Time.  I  am  grateful  that  the  Savior 
appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  Kirtland  Temple, 
and  for  the  wonderful  manifestations  as  recorded  in  the  76th  section 
of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

TESTIMONY  OF  JOSEPH  SMITH  AND  OLIVER  COWDERY 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :  That  he  lives ! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the 
voice  bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father— 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


15 


That  by  him,  and  through  him,  and  of  him,  the  worlds  are  and  were 
created  and  the  inhabitants  thereof  are  begotten  sons  and  daughters  unto 
God. 

And  this  is  the  Gospel,  the  glad  tidings,  which  the  voice  out  of  the 
heavens  bore  record  unto  us — ■ 

That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  all  unrighteousness. 

That  through  him  all  might  be  saved  whom  the  Father  hath  put  into 
his  power  and  made  by  him; 

Who  glorifies  the  Father,  and  saves  all  the  work  of  his  hands,  except 
those  sons  of  perdition  who  deny  the  Son  after  the  Father  has  revealed  him. 

GROWTH  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Nothing  short  of  this  perfect  and  absolute  knowledge  that  we 
possess  as  a  people  would  enable  us  to  accomplish  anywhere  near  the 
things  that  we  are  accomplishing.  To  think  that  in  these  days  of  de- 
pression and  trouble  we  are  able  to  spend  milliqns  of  dollars  of  money 
to  build  meeting  houses.  Nearly  every  Sunday,  for  weeks  at  a  stretch, 
I  have  had  to  dedicate  meeting  houses  and  every  time  the  buildings  have 
been  full  to  overflowing  with  those  who  have  attended  these  meetings. 
People  have  labored  in  some  cases  for  ten  long  years  in  raising  their  share 
of  the  money  to  build  their  meeting  house. 

We  are  growing  splendidly.  There  is  a  feeling  of  absolute  confi- 
dence ;  there  is  no  fear  on  our  part  of  the  final  triumph  of  the  work  of 
God.  This  is  very  gratifying  indeed.  I  can  think  of  nothing  more 
remarkable  than  that  when  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  his  brother  Hyrum 
and  others  were  sentenced  to  be  shot  by  a  court  martial,  a  man  was  raised 
up  of  the  Lord  to  defy  the  commanding  officer  and  who  said  it  was  cold- 
blooded murder.  Then  the  Prophet  was  imprisoned,  with  others,  where 
he  received  what  to  my  mind  is  one  of  the  most  remarkable  and  wonderful 
revelations,  one  of  the  greatest  of  all  the  revelations  ever  received  by  man. 

A  REVELATION  GIVEN  IN  LIBERTY  JAIL 

I  am  going  to  read  to  you  from  that  revelation  received  by  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  while  he  was  imprisoned  in  jail.  I  am  reading 
from  the  121st  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  starting  with 
the  thirty-third  verse : 

How  long  can  rolling  waters  remain  impure  ?  What  power  shall  stay 
the  heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch  forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the 
Missouri  River  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it  upstream,  as  to  hinder  the 
Almighty  from  pouring  down  knowledge  from  heaven  upon  the  heads  of 
the  Latter-day  Saints. 

Behold,  there  are  many  called,  but  few  are  chosen.  And  why  are  they 
not  chosen? 

Because  their  hearts  are  set  so  much  upon  the  things  of  this  world, 
and  aspire  to  the  honors  of  men,  that  they  do  not  learn  this  one  lesson: 

That  the  rights  of  the  priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the 
powers  of  heaven,  and  that  the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor 
handled  only  upon  the  principles  of  righteousness. 

That  they  may  be  conferred  upon  us,  it  is  true ;  but  when  we  undertake 
to  cover  our  sins,  or  to  gratify  our  pride,  our  vain  ambition,  or  to  exercise 
control  or  dominion  or  compulsion  upon  the  souls  of  the  children  of  men,  in 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


any  degree  of  unrighteousness,  behold,  the  heavens  withdraw  themselves ; 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  grieved ;  and  when  it  is  withdrawn,  Amen  to  the 
priesthood  or  the  authority  of  that  man. 

Behold,  ere  he  is  aware,  he  is  left  unto  himself,  to  kick  against  the 
pricks,  to  persecute  the  Saints,  and  to  fight  against  God. 

We  have  learned  by  sad  experience  that  it  is  the  nature  and  disposition 
of  almost  all  men,  as  soon  as  they  get  a  little  authority,  as  they  suppose, 
they  will  immediately  begin  to  exercise  unrighteous  dominion. 

Hence,  many  are  called,  but  few  are  chosen. 

May  God  help  you  and  me  and  every  soul  in  this  Church  to  be  chosen, 
and  to  stay  chosen,  in  that  straight  and  narrow  path  that  leads  to  life 
eternal ! 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the 
priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meek- 
ness, and  by  love  unfeigned ; 

By  kindness  and  pure  knowledge,  which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy  and  without  guile — 

Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy 
Ghost ;  and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward  him 
whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy ; 

That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithfulness  is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death. 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the  house- 
hold of  fajth,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly;  then  shall 
thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God ;  and  the  doctrine  of  the 
priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from  heaven. 

The  Holy  Ghost  shall  be  thy  constant  companion,  and  thy  scepter  an 
unchanging  scepter  of  righteousness  and  truth,  and  thy  dominion  shall  be 
an  everlasting  dominion,  and  without  compulsory  means  it  shall  flow  unto 
thee  forever  and  ever. 

I  repeat  this  is  one  of  the  most  marvelous  revelations  that  we  have, 
a  blessing  from  God  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  while  in  a  jail !  I  think 
there  is  nothing  finer  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  There  can  be  nothing 
of  greater  importance  than  to  exercise  the  Priesthood  exactly  as  it  is 
explained  here. 


I  am  very  thankful  indeed  for  the  remarkable  success  of  our  Wel- 
fare work  thus  far ;  I  am  thankful  for  the  devotion  so  many  are  giving 
to  that  work.  I  am  grateful  to  realize  and  know  that  our  Heavenly 
Father  is  directing  us ;  that  he  is  inspiring  us ;  that  he  is  leading  us  by 
his  Spirit;  that  we  as  a  people  are  growing  in  those  things  that  are 
pleasing  and  acceptable  to  our  Heavenly  Father.  To  be  able  in  these 
hard  times  to  make  such  a  report  as  we  have  listened  to  here  today,  is 
certainly  an  inspiration  to  every  Latter-day  Saint. 

We  are  the  architects — -not  only  the  architects  but  we  are  also  the 
builders  of  our  own  lives.  If  a  man  knows  the  mind  and  will  of  the 
Lord  and  fails  to  do  it,  he  is  drifting  away  from  that  straight  and  narrow 
path  that  leads  to  life  eternal. 


WELFARE  WORK  RECEIVES  PRAISE 


COLONEL  HAWES'  COMPLIMENT 


I  think  there  is  nothing  finer  that  I  have  ever  received  in  my  life  from 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


17 


anyone  than  a  statement  that  I  received  from  my  nearest  and  dearest 
friend,  not  a  member  of  the  Church,  when  he  wrote  a  letter  to  me  all  the 
way  from  London,  asking  about  Brother  Anthony  W.  Ivins — what  had 
become  of  him?  This  man  came  to  my  mother's  home  when  I  was  a 
little  boy.  He  afterwards  came  and  boarded  with  us,  and  later  came 
with  his  wife.  His  first  child  was  born  in  our  home.  He  was  the  best 
friend  without  any  exception  that  I  ever  had  outside  of  the  Church, 
and  he  was  a  loyal  true  friend  to  our  people. 

He  said :  "I  have  often  said  to  my  wife  'the  day  will  come  when 
these  two  boys,  Anthony  W.  Ivins  and  Heber  J.  Grant,  will  be  at  the  head 
of  the  Mormon  Church;  it  is  in  them.'  You  are  an  Apostle  and  the 
president  of  several  companies,  but  I  have  never  heard  of  your  cousin, 
and  really  I  expected  him  to  outshine  you." 

I  wrote  back  and  said:  "Colonel,  your  judgment  is  good.  When 
I  was  made  an  Apostle  I  told  my  wife  and  mother  that  I  could  not 
understand  why  my  cousin  was  not  chosen,  that  he  had  forgotten  more 
than  I  knew. 

NOMINATION  AS  GOVERNOR  REFUSED 

"When  we  secured  Statehood  I  received  a  telegram  from  the  Demo- 
cratic State  convention,  asking,  'Where  can  we  find  Anthony  Ivins? 
We  will  give  him  his  choice  to  be  nominated  for  the  first  congressman, 
now  that  we  have  Statehood,  or  the  first  governor.'  I  answered  :  'He  is 
on  the  Kaibab  Mountain  selling  the  cattle,  horses  and  property  of  his 
company,  he  has  accepted  a  call  of  the  Church  to  go  to  Mexico.'  And  if 
there  is  any  one  place  more  than  another  that  he  does  not  want  to  go  to, 
that  place  is  Mexico.  He  has  burned  his  bridges,  has  sold  his  ranch  and 
his  home,  and  nothing  in  the  world  would  tempt  him  to  stay  here  until 
he  is  called  back  again.  Afterwards,  to  show  that  your  judgment  is  good, 
Colonel,  they  offered  the  governorship  to  me.  I  told  the  gentleman, 
Heber  M.  Wells,  who  was  nominated  by  the  Republican  party :  'Here  is 
a  telegram  that  may  interest  you,'  and  showed  the  telegram  to  him.  He 
said :  'All  right,  Heber,  if  you  want  that  job  I  shall  resign  and  campaign 
for  you.  What  little  I  have  in  the  world  you  helped  me  to  obtain.  I  feel 
under  obligations  to  you.'  I  said:  'I  will  let  you  know  later'." 

PRESIDENT  WOODRUFF'S  ANSWER 

I  showed  the  telegram  to  President  Woodruff.  Those  of  you  who 
knew  Brother  Woodruff  know  that  he  did  not  speak  very  slowly.  He 
said  to  me :  "Why  do  you  bother  me  with  your  telegram  ?  Haven't  you 
enough  sense  as  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  to  answer  your  own 
telegram,  without  bothering  the  President  of  the  Church?" 

I  said :  "Thanks.  Thanks.  If  you  wanted  me  to  run  for  this 
position  you  would  have  said  so.    Good  day." 

I  sent  a  telegram  saying :  "It  will  be  a  personal  favor  to  me  if  my 
name  is  not  brought  before  the  convention."   And  it  never  was. 

I  wanted  that  position  awfully  bad,  but  I  have  never  seen  the  day 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

since  I  became  the  president  of  the  Tooele  Stake  of  Zion,  at  the  time 
I  was  not  yet  twenty-four  years  of  age,  when  I  did  not  want  to  know  what 
the  President  of  the  Church  wanted,  and  what  the  leading  officials  of 
the  Church  wanted  me  to  do,  and  that  I  did  not  want  to  do  whatever 
they  would  have  me  do,  no  matter  what  my  personal  likes  or  dislikes 
might  be.  I  have  sacrificed  my  own  financial  prospects  to  a  great 
extent,  among  the  prospects  being  the  one  this  dear  friend  of  mine  offered 
me,  a  little  job  of  $40,000  a  year  when  the  Church  was  making  me  an 
allowance  in  tithing  office  orders  of  $3,600.00. 

EVERYTHING  IN  A  BELIEF  INVOLVING  FUTURE  EXISTENCE 

My  friend  answered  back  and  said :  "My  dear  Heber :  Your  nice 
long  letter  of  the  10th  came  duly  to  hand.  Of  course  you  know,  aside 
from  the  long  and  intimate  personal  friendship  we  have  had  together, 
how  much  I  have  always  been  impressed  with  the  fineness  and  the 
sincerity  of  the  men  and  women  who  hold  your  faith.  Many  times  and 
oft  I  have  said  in  conversation  that  the  only  religious  people  I  know  who 
live  up  to  their  professions  are  the  Mormons  of  Utah.  This  is  true. 
This  it  is  that  inspires  respect  even  where  there  is  a  total  absence  of 
belief  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church.  Your  people  carry  their  beliefs 
into  daily  life  and  act  as  if  they  think  there  is  something  in  them.  I 
cannot  see  how,  as  a  sensible  person,  if  I  had  the  faith  to  start  with, 
I  could  do  otherwise.  For  if  there  is  anything  in  a  belief  which  involves 
an  eternity  of  future  existence,  there  is  everything."  And  he  drew  a 
big  black  line  under  the  words  "anything"  and  "everything." 

"If  there  is  anything  in  a  belief  which  involves  an  eternity  of  future 
existence  there  is  everything." 

If  you  remember  nothing  that  I  have  said  here  today  excepting  that 
one  sentence  you  will  not  have  come  here  in  vain  this  morning.  That 
statement  is  an  absolute  fact. 

I  wrote  the  Colonel :  "It  is  a  fact,  it  is  not  a  mere  belief.  The  promise 
of  the  Savior  was,  that  if  any  man  would  do  the  will  of  the  Father  he 
should  know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God  or  of  man,  and  we 
Latter-day  Saints  know  of  the  doctrine." 

KNOWLEDGE  MUST  BE  PUT  INTO  PRACTICE 

But  faith  and  knowledge  without  practice  are  of  no  value.  All  the 
knowledge  in  the  world  would  not  amount  to  anything  unless  we  put 
that  knowledge  into  actual  practice.  We  are  the  architects  and  builders 
of  our  lives,  and  if  we  fail  to  put  our  knowledge  into  actual  practice  and 
do  the  duties  that  devolve  upon  us  we  are  making  a  failure  of  life. 

It  has  fallen  to  my  lot  to  be  in  bed  for  two  days  under  the  orders 
of  the  doctor.  I  am  instructed  to  stay  with  you  this  morning,  but  to  go  to 
bed  this  afternoon,  and  I  think  this  short  speech  that  I  have  made  (and 
I  have  tried  to  make  it  a  little  faster  than  usual  so  as  to  get  in  a  little  more 
than  I  otherwise  would  do)  is  about  all  I  need  to  say,  because  I  do  not 
want  to  be  criticized  when  I  meet  the  doctor  later.   I  want  you  to  know 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


19 


that  I  am  not  sick  and  if  it  were  not  contrary  to  the  doctor's  instructions 
I  would  stay  right  here,  but  he  has  told  me  not  to  come  back  this  after- 
noon, and  what  is  the  use  of  having  a  doctor  if  you  do  not  obey  him  ? 

INVOKES  BLESSING 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  one  and  all,  is  my  prayer  for  you.  I  thank 
God  that  I  know  we  have  the  truth.  I  thank  God  that  I  know  that 
he  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  my  prayers,  that  he  guides  me  by  his 
Spirit,  that  he  gives  me  the  inspiration  of  his  Spirit  to  know  what  to  do 
and  how  to  do  it  for  the  benefit  of  his  people  here  on  the  earth.  I  thank 
God  for  the  remark  made  to  me  by  President  Joseph  F.  Smith — the  last 
remark  that  he  made  before  he  passed  on — "The  Lord  knows  who  he 
wants  to  stand  at  the  head  of  his  Church,  and  the  Lord  never  makes  any 
mistakes.   The  Lord  bless  you ;  the  Lord  bless  you." 

God  bless  you  one  and  all.  May  we  never  lose  the  knowledge  that 
he  lives,  that  he  hears  and  answers  our  prayers.  May  we  grow  in 
knowledge  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Redeemer  and  Savior.  May  we  grow 
in  a  knowledge  that  Joseph  Smith  was  in  very  deed  a  prophet ;  that  the 
revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  given  even  before  the  Church 
was  organized,  have  been  fulfilled  time  and  time  again;  that  his  name 
should  be  known  for  good  and  evil  all  over  the  world,  and  that  he  should 
suffer  persecutions.  Finally  he  was  martyred  for  the  cause.  May  we 
be  loyal  and  true  to  that  prophet  and  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our  Redeemer.  Amen. 

ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters :  Today,  after  hearing  the  splendid 
report  of  the  condition  of  the  Church  and  the  thrilling  testimony  of 
President  Grant,  we  are  all  doubly  grateful  for  our  membership  in  this 
great  Church. 

Those  of  us  who  are  fairly  certain  to  be  called  upon  at  'these  con- 
ferences are  torn  between  two  desires :  To  bear  testimony  under  the 
influence  and  inspiration  of  these  vast  gatherings  to  the  truth  of  the 
restored  Gospel ;  or  to  speak  to  some  subject  that  seems  of  importance, 
perhaps  of  vital  importance,  to  the  Latter-day  Cause.  For  this  occasion 
I  have  chosen  the  latter  course,  and  should  like  to  discuss  with  you 
during  the  time  allotted  me,  the  reading  habit,  and  especially  the  practice 
of  the  regular  reading  of  the  scriptures.  It  may  not  be  directly  a  spiritual 
theme ;  but  I  have  been  impressed  from  my  visits  among  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  that  it  is  one  that  needs  to  be  called  to  the  attention  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

BOOKS  AN  AID  TO  CIVILIZATION 

Our  present  civilization,  whether  for  good  or  ill,  really  began  when, 
about  four  hundred  and  fifty  years  ago,  the  use  of  movable  type  in  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Dag 


printing  press  was  invented.  By  means  of  this  invention  the  thoughts 
of  men  and  the  knowledge  of  the  world  were  distributed  in  inexpensive 
form  among  all  classes  of  men.  Thereby  the  prince  and  the  peasant 
were  brought  to  a  more  common  level ;  a  new  freedom  was  sensed ;  the 
minds  of  men  were  liberalized;  science  and  its  associations  came  into 
being.  We  may  safely  date  our  present  civilization,  with  its  abundant 
knowledge  and  its  freedom  and  richness  of  life,  from  the  coming  of 
modern  printing. 


Latter:day  Saints  see  even  more  in  the  coming  of  this  great  invention. 
To  us  it  is  part  of  the  divine  program  to  prepare  the  world  for  the  restora- 
tion of  the  Gospel.  Throughout  the  centuries,  the  Bible  had  been 
available  only  to  a  few.  The  cost  of  producing  hand-made  copies  was 
too  great  for  the  common  man  to  meet.  The  rank  and  file  of  the  people 
learned  of  the  hand-dealings  of  God  with  his  chosen  people  from  the  lips 
of  others,  who  often  changed  both  words  and  meaning  of  the  scriptural 
passage. 

The  new  art  of  printing  soon  made  the  Bible  available  to  all.  Learned 
men,  lovers  of  the  Lord,  were  inspired  to  render  the  holy  scriptures 
into  the  languages  of  the  common  people.  The  Bible  became  a  household 
possession.  The  word  of  God  was  read  around  the  family  fireside  of  the 
lowly  as  well  as  the  parlors  of  the  great.  Humanity  became  widely 
acquainted  with  the  eternal  law  of  the  Lord. 

Had  it  not  been  for  the  invention  of  printing  with  its  gift  of  more 
perfect  knowledge  of  the  holy  scriptures,  and  the  equally  new  freedom 
of  thought  that  followed,  the  coming  of  the  Gospel  might  have  been  long 
delayed.  In  that  sense,  we  may  date  even  the  preparatory  Gospel  period 
from  the  coming  of  modern  printing. 


When  at  length  the  Gospel  was  restored,  the  press  became  one  of  its 
main  allies.  The  first  active  work  of  the  Restoration  was  the  translation 
and  printing  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Soon  thereafter,  other  publi- 
cations were  issued,  and  since  that  time  to  the  present,  printed  matter  has 
flowed  steadily  from  the  presses  of  the  Church,  to  its  members  and  to  the 
people  of  the  world.  From  its  inception  in  1830  to  this  year  of  1939, 
the  Church  has  made  prolific  use  of  printed  materials. 

This  vast  printed  Gospel  literature  has  been  of  untold  value  in 
presenting  the  restored  Gospel  to  the  world.  Many  have  come  into  the 
Church  from  the  reading  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  Time  and  again,  a 
tract,  brought  by  chance  to  a  person's  attention,  has  led  to  conversion 
and  membership  in  the  Church.  A  tract  in  a  shoe  returned  from  the 
shoemaker  was  the  first  real  teacher  of  the  Gospel  to  my  family.  Today, 
as  the  Church  spreads  over  the  land,  the  printed  page,  in  book  or  peri- 
odical, is  becoming  increasingly  important  in  keeping  Church  members, 
everywhere,  informed  of  Church  progress,  and  in  maintaining  uniformity 


PRINTING  OF  THE  BIBLE  A  BLESSING 


VALUE  OF  LITERATURE  IN   THE  CHURCH 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


21 


in  Church  doctrine  and  practice.  The  printed  page  has  been  and  is  a 
powerful  means  to  accomplish  the  labors  that  the  Lord  has  laid  upon 
his  Church. 

FAITH  INCREASES  BY  STUDY  OF  GOSPEL  PRINCIPLES 

Faith  itself,  the  foundation  principle  of  the  Gospel,  may  be  developed 
and  maintained  by  use  of  printed  words.  Faith  is  a  living  thing,  subject 
to  all  the  laws  of  life.  It  may  be  begotten ;  it  may  grow ;  it  may  weaken ; 
it  may  die.  Therefore  it  must  be  cherished,  fostered  and  fed.  Regular, 
continuous  Gospel  study,  through  the  printed  page,  is  of  prime  importance 
in  the  maintaining  and  growth  of  certain  belief. 

Moreover,  faith  must  be  intelligent.  Ignorance  breeds  superstition, 
the  opposite  of  faith.  Knowledge  is  a  vital  ingredient  of  the  foundation 
of  faith.  The  gaining  of  knowledge  has  ever  been  enjoined  upon  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  "Man  is  saved  no  faster  than  he  gains  knowledge" 
declared  Joseph  Smith.  That  means,  of  course,  knowledge  of  truth,  the 
highest  expression  of  which  is  the  Gospel.  The  position  of  knowledge 
is  high  in  the  Kingdom  of  God.  Reading  is  a  main  avenue  to  knowledge. 

The  man  who  does  not  add  knowledge  to  knowledge,  throughout 
his  life,  may  endanger  his  very  faith.  Latter-day  Saints  should  be 
readers ;  they  should  cultivate  the  reading  habit. 

With  all  this  before  us,  the  available  evidence  indicates  that  we  are 
not  a  reading  people.  Our  reading  seems  to  be  occasional,  unsystematic 
and  fragmentary.  The  motion  picture,  the  radio,  and  the  automobile, 
all  welcomed  by  Latter-day  Saints,  have  unduly  invaded  our  reading 
time.  These  great  gifts  to  man  should  be  enjoyed  by  all,  but  they  should 
be  used  wisely  and  moderately,  if  our  zest  for  them  is  to  be  keen.  The 
best  of  things  may  be  overdone. 

DAILY  READING  HABIT  URGED 

The  reading  habit  is  most  valuable  in  life.  I  mean  by  that  the 
practice  of  using  a  little  time,  say  half  an  hour  a  day,  in  the  systematic 
reading  of  worthwhile  literature.  The  mind  is  opened  to  precious  fields 
of  thought ;  the  achievements  of  the  ages  become  ours ;  even  the  future 
takes  form.  As  the  mind  and  spirit  are  fed  by  well  chosen  reading, 
comfort,  peace  and  understanding  come  to  the  soul.  Those  who  have 
not  tried  it,  have  missed  a  keen  and  easily  accessible  joy. 

Moreover,  a  person  who  engages  in  such  regular  daily  reading,  if 
only  a  few  minutes  a  day,  in  the  course  of  a  few  years  becomes  a  learned 
man.  But  it  must  be  a  regular,  daily  habit.  It  is  a  common  experience 
in  the  foreign  mission  field  that  the  less  educated  man  who  studies  the 
new  language  without  missing  a  day  becomes  a  more  perfect  master,  and 
that  sooner,  of  the  language,  than  the  more  highly  trained  elder,  who 
studies  the  language  by  fits  and  starts.  Some  of  the  best  educated  men 
that  I  have  met  have  never  been  in  college  but  have  acquired  the  habit 
of  daily  reading  of  good  books  for  a  few  minutes  a  day.  And,  may  I  add, 
this  applies  to  leaders  as  to  the  people. 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

WARNING  AGAINST  DEMORALIZING  LITERATURE 

Of  course,  reading,  as  everything  else,  may  be  misused.  There  is 
on  our  American  market  a  mass  of  worthless  literature,  books  and  mag- 
azines, often  sexy,  unsound  and  demoralizing.  The  land  is  flooded  with 
them ;  they  are  available  in  every  village.  They  are  poisonous  offerings 
which  too  often  make  up  the  reading  of  young  and  old.  It  is  a  type  of 
intellectual  and  spiritual  suicide.  The  effects  of  such  reading  are  much 
like  those  of  habit-forming  drugs,  creating  unnatural,  unhealthy  desires, 
and  weakening  both  body  and  mind.  Such  time  as  we  do  give  to  reading 
should  be  devoted  to  carefully  selected  literature,  high  grade  magazines 
and  books,  which  cost  no  more,  but  build  up  the  mind,  and  feed  the 
spirit  of  man. 

THE  GOSPEL  TO  BE  STUDIED  IN  THE  PRINTED  WORD 

However,  let  it  be  remembered  that  no  practice  surpasses  that  of 
reading  daily  from  the  sacred  scriptures  of  the  Church,  and  from  the 
expositions  of  Church  history  and  doctrine  by  competent  writers  on 
Gospel  subjects,  found  in  the  books,  pamphlets  and  periodicals  issued  by 
the  Church.  The  Gospel  is  a  vast  system  of  truth,  of  such  eternal  meaning 
that  it  is  never  exhausted.  The  more  it  is  studied,  the  more  interesting 
and  appealing  it  becomes.  And,  the  opened  vistas  of  truth  that  come  to 
the  earnest  student  of  the  scriptures,  increase  and  maintain  faith  in  the 
truth  and  reality  of  the  Gospel.  Knowledge  of  the  Gospel  is  food  for 
faith  in  the  Gospel.  Only  by  careful  and  continued  study  can  a  vision 
of  the  majesty  of  the  Gospel  be  won.  Many  a  spiritual  failure  may  be 
traced  to  Gospel  starvation. 

I  fear  that  too  many  Latter-day  Saints  know  the  Gospel  only  super- 
ficially, and  take  most  of  it  for  granted,  without  making  the  effort  of 
inquiry.  This  is  in  direct  contradiction  to  the  Gospel  principle  that  every 
member  of  the  Church  must,  as  it  were,  stand  upon  his  own  feet,  and 
know  for  himself  that  the  Gospel  is  true.  The  words  of  the  Lord  are 
clear :  "And  the  Book  of  Mormon  and  the  holy  scriptures  are  given  of 
me  for  your  instruction,  and  the  power  of  my  spirit  quickeneth  all  things." 

I  urge  upon  all  Latter-day  Saints  to  read  the  scriptures,  thoughtfully, 
every  day.  In  some  households  it  may  even  be  possible  to  read  a  chapter 
from  the  scriptures  before  the  evening  meal  begins,  when  the  family 
are  seated  around  the  table.    The  practice  is  helpful  to  young  people. 

SCRIPTURES  A  GUIDE  TO  RIGHT  LIVING 

Whoever  has  failed  to  read  the  scriptures  has  missed  much  in  life. 
The  beauty  and  eloquence  of  language,  and  the  sublimity  of  ideas,  found 
in  the  Bible,  are  not  even  approached  in  any  man-made  literature.  The 
simple  faith,  and  clear  exposition  of  eternal  truth,  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, are  as  a  light  on  the  path  of  life.  The  solemnity  of  thought,  and 
the  echo  of  the  voice  of  the  Lord,  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  guide 
men  in  the  actions  of  their  lives.  And  the  picture  of  the  eternal  love  of 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


23 


God  for  his  children  as  set  forth  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price  makes  the 
human  heart  swell  with  joy.  We  may  well  pity  the  man  who  does  not 
know  the  scriptures  of  the  Lord. 

If  mankind  would  turn  daily  to  the  word  of  God  as  found  in  the 
scriptures  there  would  be  less  of  warfare  and  misery,  and  the  dawn  of 
peace  would  be  seen. 

PUBLICATIONS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Much  of  our  reading  may  be  supplied,  in  addition  to  the  standard 
Church  works,  by  the  splendid  publications  of  the  Church.  The  Deseret 
News  is  a  most  excellent  source  of  live  news,  none  better,  for  all  who  live 
within  the  radius  of  its  operations.  Every  Latter-day  Saint  family  so 
located  which  seeks  a  daily  newspaper  should  subscribe  to  the  Deseret 
News.  Several  magazines  appeal  to  special  groups  within  the  Church : 
The  Improvement  Era,  the  organ  of  the  Priesthood  quorums,  Mutual 
Improvement  Associations,  Department  of  Education,  Music  Committee, 
Ward  Teachers,  and  others ;  the  Relief  Society  Magazine  representing 
the  great  body  of  mature  women  in  the  Church,  represented  here  today 
by  these  1300  melodious  Singing  Mothers ;  The  Instructor,  for  all  Sunday 
School  workers ;  The  Children's  Friend  for  children  under  the  direction 
of  the  Primary  Association ;  and  The  Genealogical  and  Historical  Mag- 
azine, organ  of  the  Genealogical  Society  of  Utah.  Besides,  there  is  a 
somewhat  steady  flow  from  Church  headquarters  of  books  and  pamphlets 
dealing  with  the  Gospel  and  related  subjects. 

While  it  may  not  be  expected  that  every  family  shall  possess  and 
read  all  this  material,  yet  I  have  a  feeling  that  those  who  complain  most 
about  our  wealth  of  Church  literature,  are  those  who  read  that  literature 
least.  Those  who  do  give  some  time  regularly  to  our  Church  literature 
keep  up  with  the  progress  of  the  Lord's  mighty  work,  and  also  increase 
in  Gospel  knowledge  and  Gospel  power. 

ADVICE  GIVEN  TO  HYRUM  SMITH 

Before  the  Church  was  organized,  Hyrum  Smith  became  convinced 
of  the  truth  of  his  brother's  message,  and  with  the  fiery  zeal  of  the  new 
convert,  desired  to  go  out  to  preach  the  Gospel.  But,  the  Lord  restrained 
him  and  asked  him  to  wait  a  while.  "Seek  not  to  declare  my  word," 
said  the  Lord,  "but  first  seek  to  obtain  my  word.  .  .  .  Study  my  word 
.  .  .  until  you  have  obtained  all  which  I  shall  grant  unto  the  children  of 
men  in  this  generation,  and  then  shall  all  things  be  added  thereto."  This 
divine  counsel  given  to  Hyrum  Smith  may  well  be  taken  to  heart  by  us  of 
this  day.  By  the  study  of  God's  word,  we  shall  not  only  have  the  visions 
of  the  Gospel  opened  before  us,  but  our  faith  will  increase  and  we  shall 
be  better  able  to  do  our  part  in  carrying  forward  the  latter-day  cause 
of  the  Lord,  for  our  own  welfare  and  that  of  our  fellow  men. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  THE  GOSPEL 

I  am  grateful  for  the  Gospel,  and  its  advancement  among  the  children 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

of  men ;  for  its  truth  which  throws  light  into  the  dark  corners  of  life ; 
and  for  the  faith  which  every  man  may  win  who  but  seeks  it,  which 
declares  the  reality  of  the  Gospel  and  all  its  claims;  for  the  written 
word  to  guide  and  comfort  us.  As  a  people  we  must  cherish  the  gift 
of  the  Gospel,  increase  our  faith  by  adding  knowledge  to  knowledge  and 
good  works  to  better  works. 

May  the  Lord  help  us  so  to  do,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 

President  of  the  North  Central  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters  :  If  we  are  to  "work  out  our  own  salvation 
with  fear  and  trembling,"  I  made  considerable  progress  six  months  ago 
when  I  sat  here  through  six  long  meetings  fearing  and  waiting  for  this 
opportunity  and  then  did  not  get  it. 

I  value  above  all  else  in  the  world  my  membership  in  this  Church. 
I  take  it  that  it  is  not  expected,  nor  is  it  my  privilege  to  preach  the 
Gospel  to  the  Saints  at  home;  my  appointment  is  to  those  abroad  in 
the  world. 

We  have  a  fine  group  of  men  and  women,  your  sons  and  daughters 
— eighty-two  in  number  at  present — laboring  in  the  North  Central  States 
Mission.  They  are  all  well,  they  are  all  happy  in  their  labors  and 
rejoicing  in  the  privilege  that  is  theirs  to  be  representatives  of  this 
great  Church. 

As  Pasteur  seems  to  have  proven  definitely  that  "only  life  can 
produce  life,"  I  am  becoming  quite  convinced  during  a  period  of  less 
than  two  years  of  presiding  in  our  mission  that  only  effective  Church 
training  can  produce  effective  missionaries.  We  have  missionaries  of 
all  grades  of  scholastic  training,  but  neither  scholarship  nor  technical 
theological  knowledge  makes  successful  missionaries ;  but  almost  without 
exception,  he  or  she  who  has  come  up  through  the  training  of  the  organi- 
zations of  our  Church,  and  from  homes  wherein  is  found  a  testimony  of 
the  Gospel  in  which  our  youths  and  maidens  have  imbibed  the  spirit  of 
the  Gospel,  these  are  ready  to  enter  immediately  into  active  service  when 
they  arrive  in  the  mission  field,  regardless  of  their  intellectual  training. 
In  saying  this  I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  fact  that  "the  glory  of  God 
is  intelligence"  and  that  "a  man  is  saved  no  faster  than  he  gains 
knowledge,"  yet  learning  has  to  be  made  over  into  wisdom  and  we  have 
to  make  ourselves  sensitive  to  the  power  of  the  Lord.  As  the  humble 
fishermen  in  the  days  of  Christ  proved  superior  to  the  trained  Rabbi,  so 
our  missionaries,  male  and  female,  who  are  "born  again,"  in  spite  of 
their  lack  of  worldly  knowledge  prove  to  be  strong  expounders  of  the 
restored  Gospel.  These  touch  the  hearts  of  men  great  and  small  as 
measured  by  the  world.  These  touch  the  heart  and  demonstrate  the 
scriptural  truth  that  "No  one  can  say  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  except  by 
the  Holy  Ghost." 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  BROADBENT 


25 


I  find  definite  and  constant  evidence  in  the  mission  field  that  those 
who  have  not  been  trained  in  our  homes  and  in  our  organizations,  that  it 
takes  these  almost  as  long  as  though  they  were  in  a  foreign  field  having 
to  master  a  foreign  language,  to  become  real  ambassadors  of  the  truth. 
Unless  we  are  "born  again,"  and  I  take  it  that  when  Christ  said  this  to 
Nicodemus  he  meant  just  what  we  find  with  our  young  men  and 
women  in  the  mission  field,  not  a  mere  immersion  in  water,  but  a  real 
new  birth  of  the  Spirit  of  this  great  cause  of  which  he  is  the  founder. 
Until  our  men  and  maidens  are  born  again  they  are  almost  worthless  as 
missionaries.  And  yet,  the  greatest  miracle  in  the  Church,  as  I  view  it, 
is  to  be  seen  in  the  growth  and  development  of  each  one  when  he  finds 
himself  under  the  inspiration  of  his  divine  calling  and  appointment. 
Nothing  now  seems  to  hinder  him  from  becoming  a  great  and  worthy 
representative  of  the  Church. 

There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  but  that  any  of  our  youths  can 
make  good  in  the  mission  field  if  they  have  come  from  homes  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  God  and  have  had 
the  proper  training  in  the  Church  organizations.  Solomon  did  not  say, 
"Teach  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,"  but  he  said  "Train  up  a  child 
in  the  way  he  should  go  and  when  he  is  old  he  will  not  depart  from  it." 
The  training  is  by  far  greater  than  is  the  intellectual  attainment  that  we 
get  from  mere  teaching.  The  fishermen  of  old,  those  whom  Christ 
selected  from  the  shores  of  Galilee,  were  not  scholarly  men,  but  under 
the  spirit  and  power  of  the  inspiration  of  Almighty  God  they  were 
unequaled  in  solving  the  problems  of  life  in  their  day,  and  it  is  similar 
today.  Knowledge,  a  great  fund  of  information,  is  valuable,  the  more 
we  have  the  better,  provided  we  have  that  inspiration  which  comes  only 
from  a  divine  source;  for  "knowledge  is  power"  when  applied,  but 
it  cannot  be  applied  in  the  mission  field  effectively  except  when  used 
under  the  spirit  of  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

We  are  often  responsible  for  the  non-conversion  of  those  among 
whom  we  labor  because  we  have  not  learned  "that  the  rights  of  the 
Priesthood  are  inseparably  connected  with  the  powers  of  heaven,  and 
the  powers  of  heaven  cannot  be  controlled  nor  handled  only  upon 
the  principles  of  righteousness." 

I  rejoice  in  the  privilege  that  is  given  me  and  my  family  and  to 
those  who  are  laboring  joyously  with  us  in  speaking  for  this  Church. 
I  know  it  to  be  the  Church  of  God  as  I  know  that  I  live.  I  will  go  to  the 
ends  of  the  earth  any  time,  anywhere  under  this  inspired  leadership 
which  is  ours,  no  matter  where  the  call  may  be.  I  know  that  God  lives, 
I  know  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  is  his  prophet 
and  that  he  was  the  medium  in  the  hands  of  God  in  restoring  the  ever- 
lasting Gospel.  I  know  full  well  that  every  man  who  has  succeeded  him 
as  President  of  the  Church  to  the  present  time  is  a  prophet  of  God.  Only 
those  who  are  not  in  tune  with  the  spirit  of  this  Gospel  stand  in 
criticism  of  the  leadership  that  is  ours  today. 

God  bless  us.  God  give  us  power  that  we  may  fill  our  responsi- 
bilities to  his  name's  honor  and  glory  and  for  our  own  blessing  and 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

benefit.  I  have  learned  that  every  commandment  of  God,  every  in- 
junction is  for  my  benefit  and  blessing.  I  see  even  in  the  commandment 
to  Adam  and  Eve  when  cast  from  the  garden  of  Eden  and  the  "earth 
was  cursed  for  man's  sake,"  that  this  "cursing"  was  in  reality  a  great 
blessing.  It  was  a  privilege  to  work.  If  we  do  not  sweat  with  work 
we  shall  sweat  with  disease.  This  was  not  a  cursing  of  the  earth  for  the 
cursing's  sake,  but  that  man  should  be  compelled  to  work  that  he  might 
be  permitted  to  develop  in  service,  that  we  might  grow  through  achieve- 
ment. 

God  grant  that  we  may  see  our  opportunities  in  this  great  Church 
and  lend  our  entire  support  to  it,  I  pray  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ORLANDO  C.  WILLIAMS 

President  of  the  Spanish- American  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  Following  in  Brother  Broadbent's  steps, 
I  can  say  amen  to  his  opening  remarks.  I  wish  to  say  that  I  am  happy  to 
be  with  you  and  I  have  thrilled  to  the  testimonies  we  have  heard  this 
morning,  and  particularly  was  I  thrilled  again  by  the  voice  of  our  prophet 
leader  and  by  his  testimony.  I  feel  that  his  vigor,  his  clear-cut  testimony, 
and  his  quoting  of  the  scriptures  to  us  are  a  challenge  to  every  member 
of  this  Church,  and  particularly  to  the  missionaries  and  those  who  hope 
to  be  missionaries.  I  feel  also  that  his  life  is  an  example  to  all  of  us, 
which  we  can  well  follow,  and  we  know  that  he  has  reaped  the  benefit  of 
the  scripture  in  the  statement  that  "Sacrifice  brings  forth  the  blessings 
of  heaven." 

And  if  we  in  a  small  measure  would  enjoy  the  blessings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  while  we  are  here  upon  this  earth  we  should  also  follow 
that  injunction,  "Seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness ; 
and  all  these  things  shall  be  added  unto  you." 

I  wish  to  report  that  the  missionaries — sixty-three  of  them,  your 
sons  and  daughters — in  the  Spanish-American  Mission  are  well  and  happy 
in  their  work.  We  have  enjoyed  better  health  so  far  this  year  in  the 
mission  than  at  any  other  time  since  I  have  presided  over  it,  and  for  this 
we  are  grateful.  Their  testimonies  are  growing,  they  are  becoming 
more  useful  day  by  day,  and  by  the  blessings  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
the  work  is  going  forward  among  those  with  whom  we  are  laboring. 
The  Branches  and  Sunday  Schools  of  the  mission  are  being  strengthened, 
they  are  being  better  organized,  the  people  feel  a  new  strength,  a  new 
desire  to  go  forward  in  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  they  are  happy  in  the 
work.  It  is  a  pleasure  above  all  else  that  I  have  enjoyed  to  represent  the 
Church  in  a  mission  in  the  world,  and  it  is  a  pleasure  for  your  sons  and 
daughters  to  preach  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  and  Master,  that  others  may 
be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  same. 

We  depend  on  your  faith  and  prayers  at  home,  and  the  report  we 
have  received  this  morning  of  the  growth  and  the  strength  of  this  Church 
will  be  an  added  inspiration  and  stimulus  to  us  to  carry  on  in  the  work 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


27 


that  is  before  us.  We  have  often  heard  it  preached  that  after  this  life 
we  would  sit  on  a  golden  throne  and  play  a  golden  harp  or  sing  songs, 
and  while  we  know  that  this  is  not  so,  I  do  hope  that  there  will  be 
"Singing  Mothers"  in  heaven,  because  I  have  been  inspired  this  morning 
by  their  songs  and  by  the  spirit  of  the  same.  In  some  of  the  missions 
we  have  a  lack  of  choirs  that  are  properly  trained.  Ofttimes  the  mis- 
sionaries are  unable  to  sing  the  songs  of  Zion  as  we  would  love  to  have 
them  do,  to  carry  the  spirit  that  comes  through  singing,  but  we  are 
trying  to  develop  the  talents  that  are  natural  to  our  people,  and  where 
there  is  a  large  enough  congregation  in  our  Branches  we  are  developing 
that  part  of  the  work. 

The  Lord  has  poured  out  his  Spirit  upon  us,  and  recently  in  a  tour 
of  the  mission  we  reached  over  three  thousand  people  who  are  not 
members  of  the  Church,  and  were  able  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  them. 
The  work  of  the  mission  quartet  was  outstanding,  and  it  has  opened  the 
doors  of  many  hundreds  of  people  to  our  missionaries.  The  missionaries 
report  that  in  nearly  every  instance  the  doors  are  open  to  them,  and  all 
we  need  is  more  missionaries  to  help  take  care  of  the  work,  to  preach 
the  Gospel  to  those  who  are  anxiously  awaiting  it.  I  feel  with  you 
that  the  motto  of  this  people  is,  onward  and  forward,  in  a  progressive 
movement  that  is  natural  and  normal,  although  I  believe  it  will  be  more 
phenomenal  in  the  future  than  it  has  been  in  the  past. 

I  wish  to  leave  with  you  my  testimony  that  I  know  that  God  lives, 
that  his  Only  Begotten  Son  was  the  Christ,  sent  to  the  earth  to  redeem 
mankind,  and  that  only  by  living  the  commandments  that  he  gave  us  will 
we  be  saved.  I  also  bear  you  my  testimony  that  our  leaders  are  inspired 
men,  that  they  are  placed  here  in  authority  over  us,  that  they  are  doing 
the  work  that  God  intended  that  they  should  do,  and  that  if  we  will  only 
follow  their  counsel  and  advice  we  will  be  in  the  way  of  salvation.  This 
I  leave  with  you  humbly  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 
The  Savior  said,  as  recorded  in  the  Gospel  of  St.  Matthew : 

Ye  are  the  light  of  the  world.  A  city  that  is  set  on  an  hill  cannot 
be  hid. 

Neither  do  men  light  a  candle,  and  put  it  under  a  bushel,  but  on  a 
candlestick;  and  it  giveth  light  unto  all  that  are  in  the  house. 

Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see  your  good 
works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  Heaven.  (Matt.  5:  14-16). 

PROPER  LEADERSHIP  NEEDED 

In  these  troubled  times  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  a  great  oppor- 
tunity to  bring  to  mankind  a  necessary  type  of  leadership.  Serious  prob- 
lems confront  young  and  old  alike.  Many  are  sorely  tried  through  eco- 
nomic difficulties.  Others  are  being  lured  away  by  the  wicked  who  conspire 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

to  get  gain  through  merchandising  the  souls  of  the  people.  Yet  the  major- 
ity of  the  people  desire  that  which  is  good.  Generally  they  are  willing  to 
do  right,  if  they  are  properly  directed. 

In  every  neighborhood  and  community  there  is  a  demand  for  lead- 
ership and  faith  to  dispel  perplexity  and  implant  a  firmness  of  purpose 
which  all  men  need  in  these  troublesome  times.  An  outstanding  figure 
in  every  circle  has  the  power  to  influence  his  associates,  and  if  that  in- 
dividual has  a  true  conception  of  leadership,  he  may  become  a  blessing — 
not  only  to  his  immediate  circle,  but  to  his  community,  his  Church,  his 
state  and  nation. 

THE  POWER  TO  DEVELOP  LEADERSHIP 

Frequently  we  hear  men  and  women  lamenting  the  lack  of  per- 
sons upon  whom  they  may  depend  to  step  out  and  take  a  directing 
position  in  their  organizations.  We  hear  this  from  many  of  our  own 
people  who  seem  to  forget  that  we  have  the  power  within  the  Church  to 
develop  the  finest  kind  of  leadership  known  upon  earth ;  not  only  individ- 
ual leadership,  but  collective  leadership,  which  in  turn  can  make  of  this 
people  a  mighty  power  for  good  in  the  world.  It  has  already  done  so  to  the 
extent  that  now  in  many  places,  the  Latter-day  Saints  are  recognized  for 
what  they  really  have  accomplished.  We  can  and  must  carry  this  pro- 
gress still  further,  until  we  truly  become  as  a  city  on  a  hill,  a  beacon  light 
in  the  dark  of  night,  setting  an  example  in  the  art  of  living  which  will 
attract  the  gaze  of  thinking  people  everywhere. 

To  do  this  will  require  the  united  effort  of  the  members  of  the 
Church  and  the  perpetuation  of  the  high  standards  and  high  ideals  fost- 
ered by  the  Church.  We  must  provide  the  leadership  in  our  wards  and 
branches  to  achieve  this  purpose. 

FIRST  ELEMENT  OF  TRUE  LEADERSHIP 

If  we  are  to  do  so  we  must  learn  that  the  first  element  of  true 
leadership  is  faith  in  God  and  obedience  to  his  principles.  This  truth 
has  been  recognized  all  down  the  ages.  We  are  all  familiar  with  the  ex- 
ample of  Saul  who  lost  his  position  as  a  leader  and  king  of  Israel  because 
of  his  failure  to  obey  the  command  of  the  Lord  as  given  through  Samuel 
the  prophet.  The  essence  of  the  rebuke  uttered  then  is  pertinent  today. 

Hath  the  Lord  as  great  delight  in  burnt  offerings  and  sacrifices,  as 
in  obeying  the  voice  of  the  Lord?  Behold,  to  obey  is  better  than  sacrifice, 
and  to  hearken  than  the  fat  of  rams.  (1  Sam.  15  :22). 

We  are  equally  familiar  with  the  blessings  and  strength  of  leadership 
which  came  to  Nephi  as  a  result  of  his  willingness  to  obey  the  teachings 
of  his  father  Lehi. 

If  we  would  succeed  in  developing  true  leadership  within  our  own 
groups,  then  let  us  remember  that  the  first  essential  is  to  follow  willingly 
the  advice  and  counsel  of  those  who  preside  over  the  Church. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 


29 


LEADERSHIP  THROUGH  CHURCH  ACTIVITY 

The  next  step  is  activity.  Experience  has  shown  us  that  the  great 
developer  of  leadership  among  the  Latter-day  Saints  is  activity  in  the 
Church — participation  in  the  programs  of  the  various  quorums  and  aux- 
iliary organizations.  How  many  times  have  you  seen  men  or  women 
weak  and  trembling  from  inexperience,  when  placed  in  positions  of  re- 
sponsibility grow  into  stalwarts  in  the  Church,  as  they  have  assumed  the 
mantle  of  their  calling  and  diligently  endeavored  to  build  up  the  kingdom 
of  God  here  upon  the  earth  ? 

You  have  also  seen  young  men  called  on  missions  who  have  seemed 
weak  and  timid,  but  when  they  have  returned  after  two  years  or  more 
of  active  service  in  the  mission  field,  you  have  seen  a  transformation  you 
could  hardly  have  believed  possible.  Why  ?  Because  they  have  developed 
the  qualities  of  leadership  through  their  persistent  activity  in  the  Church. 

There  is  no  better  evidence  of  the  fact  that  activity  in  the  Church 
develops  the  quality  of  leadership  in  the  lives  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  than 
in  the  careers  of  the  men  who  have  presided  over  the  Church. 

The  humble  beginning  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  well  known. 
His  education  was  limited.  He  was  obliged  to  start  work  early  in  his  life 
to  contribute  to  the  support  of  himself  and  other  members  of  the  family. 
Yet  from  that  humble  beginning  he  became  one  of  the  greatest  prophets 
of  all  time.  He  not  only  became  the  dynamic  leader  of  a  fast-growing 
modern  Church,  but  he  set  forth  principles  of  government  worthy  of 
study  by  our  greatest  statesmen  and  in  the  latter  part  of  his  life  became 
a  candidate  for  president  of  the  United  States. 

He  was  a  great  colonizer  in  the  central  west,  and  envisioned  the 
eventual  movement  of  the  Pioneers  to  the  Rocky  Mountains.  He  became 
one  of  the  great  leaders  of  all  time,  and  all  this  through  his  activity  and 
faith  and  obedience  to  God  and  the  Church  of  Christ. 

Brigham  Young  likewise  had  a  humble  beginning.  He  was  a  trades- 
man in  very  ordinary  circumstances.  When  he  joined  the  Church  and 
entered  heartily  into  its  activities  he  began  the  development  of  traits  of 
leadership  which  today  are  being  heralded  in  motion  pictures,  over  radio 
broadcasts  and  among  men  trained  to  measure  greatness  in  the  perspective 
in  the  passing  of  time.  He  successfully  directed  the  emigration  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  to  Utah  and  later  the  colonization  of  a  large  section 
of  western  America.  All  of  this  grew  out  of  his  activities  in  the  Church, 
out  of  giving  his  time  and  talents  unselfishly  to  the  development  of  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 

President  Taylor,  President  Woodruff,  and  President  Snow  also 
had  humble  beginnings.  They,  too,  rose  from  the  ranks  and  achieved 
greatness  through  their  untiring  service  in  the  Church. 

Many  of  those  within  the  sound  of  my  voice  remember  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith.  Few  boys  had  a  more  humble  beginning  than  he. 
Deprived  of  both  of  his  parents  early  in  life,  he  was  obliged  to  work 
hard  for  a  living,  but  he  gave  himself  freely  to  the  work  of  the  Lord. 
Through  active  service  in  the  Church  he  developed  rare  qualities  of 


30  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

leadership.  As  he  served,  he  grew  in  power,  until  the  time  came  when 
he  stood  at  the  head  of  the  Church,  giving  it  an  inspired  administration. 

President  Grant  on  various  occasions  has  told  us  of  the  humble 
beginning  he  had;  and  of  his  weakness  in  going  to  preside  over  the 
Tooele  Stake  as  a  young  man.  But  when  we  regard  the  President  as 
he  is  today,  we  are  inspired  by  the  greatness  of  his  leadership,  and  his 
faith  in  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

Few  men  have  received  the  high  tributes  of  love  and  esteem  that 
have  come  to  him.  Yet  every  tribute  has  been  earned  by  continuous 
unselfish  service  in  behalf  of  his  fellowmen.  Through  his  inspired 
leadership  he  today  directs  the  religious  affairs  of  nearly  a  million 
members  of  the  Church  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 

And  how  did  he  achieve  this  power  of  leadership  ?  We  answer : 
Through  service  in  the  Church  of  Christ  our  Lord. 

Every  one  of  us  wields  some  influence  among  those  with  whom 
we  associate.  No  matter  in  what  capacity  we  may  serve,  we  can  develop 
qualities  of  leadership  through  unselfish  service  in  the  Church.  We 
then  shall  grow  in  power  and  influence  and  thus  shall  we  learn  the 
truth  of  these  words : 

Whosoever  will  be  great  among  you,  let  him  be  your  minister ; 
And  whosoever  will  be  chief  among  you,  let  him  be  your  servant. 
(Matt.  20:26,27). 

BETTER  QUALIFIED  TO  PREACH  GOSPEL 

If  we  collectively  grow  in  our  obedience  to  God's  commands  and 
increase  our  activity  in  his  Church,  we  shall  be  in  better  position  to 
teach  the  Gospel  to  all  the  world,  and  to  teach  more  impressively  because 
of  the  kind  of  lives  we  live. 

The  world  today  is  sorely  in  need  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
In  America  we  have  an  abundance  of  gold  and  silver  and  foodstuffs, 
and  much  intellectual  power,  but  we  lack  the  desire  to  worship  God. 
All  must  be  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  this  condition  and  learn  to 
repent  of  their  transgressions. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  hold  the  key  to  this  situation — the  inspired 
words  of  God  that  have  come  to  the  children  of  men  from  the  time  of 
the  beginning  of  this  Church,  inspiring  those  great  leaders  even  until 
now,  must  be  taken  into  consideration  by  the  doubter  and  by  those  who  do 
not  know. 

We  pray  for  the  children  of  men  in  all  the  world,  in  this  city  where 
we  live,  the  country  round  about  us,  and  in  all  nations  of  the  earth. 
We  pray  God  to  give  us  the  power  to  do  our  part,  and  we  do  it  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


31 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

I  am  very  grateful  myself,  and  I  am  sure  that  you  all  are,  to  the 
Singing  Mothers  for  the  lovely  music  to  which  we  have  listened ;  we  ap- 
preciate it  very  much  indeed. 

AVOID  AUTO  ACCIDENTS 

Our  City  Fathers  have  requested  us  one  and  all  to  be  careful  of 
automobile  accidents.  I  want  to  ask  as  a  personal  favor  that  people  quit 
breaking  the  speed  limit  in  this  city.  If  they  happen  to  see  a  green  light 
you  would  think  that  someone  was  dying,  the  way  they  try  to  get  there 
before  it  changes  to  a  red  light ;  you  would  think  that  life  and  death  were 
at  stake.  I  have  had  automobiles  pass  me  time  and  time  again  when  I  was 
going  just  the  speed  limit,  and  then  they  generally  get  to  the  light  too 
late  and  the  red  light  comes  on.  If  the  city  would  pass  an  ordinance  to 
the  effect  that  every  one  should  send  in  the  name  of  every  man  who 
passes  him  breaking  the  speed  limit,  trying  to  get  through  the  green  light, 
and  if  they  would  take  the  testimony  of  that  one  person,  provided  there 
was  no  other  person  to  testify  to  it,  I  think  they  would  collect  in  fines 
about  a  thousand  dollars  a  day  in  this  city.  There  is  no  necessity  to 
break  the  speed  limit,  none  whatever,  and  of  course  there  is  no  necessity 
of  always  trying  to  get  your  right-of-way  when  it  is  your  turn. 

Here  lies  the  body  of  William  Gray, 
Who  died  maintaining  his  right  of  way. 
Now  William  was  right  as  he  sped  along, 
But  he's  just  as  dead  as  if  he'd  been  wrong. 

Let  the  other  fellow  have  the  right-of-way. 

An  anthem,  "O  Bread  of  Life,"  was  sung  by  the  Singing  Mothers. 
Elder  Hyrum  B.  Calder,  President  of  the  Uintah  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, presided  at  the  second  session  of  the  Conference,  which  convened 
promptly  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Thursday.  President  Heber  J.  Grant  was 
absent,  on  account  of  suffering  from  a  cold. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Singing  Mothers, 
under  the  direction  of  Wade  N.  Stephens. 

The  Singing  Mothers  and  the  congregation  sang  the  hymn  "High  on 
the  Mountain  Top." 

Elder  Claudius  Hirschi,  President  of  the  Zion  Park  Stake,  offered 
the  opening  prayer. 

The  Singing  Mothers  sang  the  hymn  "For  the  Strength  of  the  Hills." 


32 

Thursday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Since  April  6  of  this  year,  1939,  is  Thursday,  and  since  our  Annual 
Conference  begins  on  that  day,  it  occurs  to  me  that  a  brief  review  of  the 
great  events  which,  according  to  the  generally  accepted  calendar,  occurred 
1909  years  ago  on  the  same  days  this  Conference  is  to  be  held,  may  be  of 
interest. 

DATES  OF  IMPORTANT  EVENTS 

Thursday,  April  6,  A.  D.  30 

Preparation  for  the  passover. 
Thursday  Evening,  April  6,  A.  D.  30 

The  passover  meal.    Contention  among  the  twelve. 

Jesus  washes  the  disciples'  feet. 

The  traitor  made  known.   Judas  withdraws. 

The  Lord's  supper  instituted. 

Peter's  fall  foretold. 

Jesus  comforts  his  disciples. 

The  vine  and  the  branches.  (I  am  the  vine,  ye  are  the  branches. 
He  that  abideth  in  me,  and  I  in  him,  the  same  bringeth  forth 
much  fruit;  for  without  me  ye  can  do  nothing.    John  15:5.) 

Mutual  love.    The  disciples  hated  by  the  world. 

(These  things  I  command  you,  that  ye  love  one  another.  If  the 
world  hate  you,  ye  know  that  it  hated  me  before  it  hated  you. 
If  ye  were  of  the  world,  the  world  would  love  his  own  ;  but  be- 
cause ye  are  not  of  the  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out  of  the 
world,  therefore  the  world  hateth  you.    John  15:17-19.) 

Persecution  foretold.    Further  promise  of  the  Holy  Spirit. 

Prayer  in  the  name  of  Christ. 

(Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  Whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  the 
Father  in  my  name,  he  will  give  it  you.    John  16:23.) 

Christ's  last  prayer  with  his  disciples. 
Thursday  Midnight,  April  6,  A.  D.  30 

The  agony  in  the  garden  of  Gethsemane. 

Jesus  betrayed  and  made  prisoner. 
Friday,  1-5  a.  m.,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

Jesus  before  Annas  and  Caiaphas.    Peter's  denial. 

Jesus  before  Caiaphas  and  the  Sanhedrin. 

The  Sanhedrin  lead  Jesus  away  to  Pilate. 
Friday,  5-6  a.  m.,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

Jesus  before  Herod. 
Friday,  6-9  a.  m.,  April  7,A.D.30 

Pilate  seeks  to  release  Jesus.  Barabbas  demanded. 

Barabbas  released.   Jesus  delivered  up  to  death. 

Pilate  again  seeks  to  release  Jesus. 
Friday,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

Judas  repents  and  hangs  himself. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


33 


Friday,  6-9  a.  m.,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

On  the  way  to  Golgotha. 
Friday,  9-12  noon,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

The  crucifixion. 
Friday,  12-3  p.  m.,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

Mocked  on  the  cross. 

The  penitent  thief. 

The  mother  of  Jesus  at  the  cross. 

Darkness  prevails.    Christ  expires  on  the  cross. 

The  vail  of  the  temple  rent,  and  tombs  opened. 
Friday,  3-6  p.  m.,  April  7,  A.  D.  30 

The  side  pierced. 

Taken  down  from  the  cross,  and  laid  in  the  tomb. 
Saturday,  April  8,  A.  D.  30 

The  guard  at  the  sepulchre. 
Sunday  Morning,  April  9,  A.  D.  30 

Morning  of  the  resurrection.  Women  visit  the  tomb. 

Vision  of  angels  in  the  tomb. 
Sunday  Forenoon,  April  9,  A.  D.  30 

The  women  return  to  the  city.   Jesus  meets  them. 

Our  Lord  is  seen  by  Mary  Magdalene  at  the  tomb. 

Report  of  the  guard. 
Sunday  Afternoon,  April  9,  A.  D.  30 

Jesus  appears  to  two  disciples  on  the  way  to  Emmaus. 
Sunday  Evening,  April  9,  A.  D.  30 

Jesus  appears  in  the  midst  of  the  apostles,  Thomas  being  absent. 

Jesus  appears  in  the  midst  of  the  apostles,  Thomas  being  present. 
During  April  and  May,  A.  D.  30 

Jesus  appears  to  seven  apostles  at  the  sea  of  Tiberias. 

Jesus  meets  the  apostles  and  above  five  hundred  disciples  on  a 
mountain  in  Galilee. 
Thursday,  May  18,  A.  D.  30,  forty-one  days  after  the  crucifixion, 

Our  Lord  appears  to  James,  and  then  to  all  the  apostles. 

The  ascension  of  our  Lord. 

ANSWERS  TO  PRAYER  CITED 

I  desire  now  to  make  a  few  remarks  on  the  subject  of  prayer.  We 
have  already  been  urged  today  to  read  the  scriptures. 
Isaiah  says : 

Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found ;  call  ye  upon  him  while  he 
is  near.    (Isa.  55  :6.) 

Jesus  himself  says: 

Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you ;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find ;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you :  For  everyone  that  asketh  receiveth ;  and  he  that 
seeketh  findeth ;  and  to  him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened.    (Matt.  7 :7-8) 

Our  forefathers  came  to  this  country  in  search  of  religious  freedom, 
religious  tolerance,  and  real  liberty.    In  our  national  anthem  we  sing: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Then  conquer  we  must,  for  our  cause  it  is  just, 
And  this  be  our  motto,  In  God  is  our  trust. 


That  is  the  motto  of  the  country  "over  which  flies  the  only  flag  in  all  the 
world  that  has  never  known  defeat,"  to  quote  Lloyd  George. 
And  again  we  sing : 


And  we  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  believe  that  the  only  king 
this  our  country  shall  ever  know  is  Jesus,  the  Son  of  God. 

It  is  said  that  in  our  country  today  some  of  our  leaders  in  business, 
many  who  are  called  empire  builders,  actually  ridicule  religion.  A  wise 
and  thoughtful  American  has  said : 

These  very  men  are  indebted  for  all  that  they  possess  to  the  family 
prayers  which  were  once  held  daily  in  the  homes  of  their  fathers.  (Babson) 

Many  of  our  great  Americans,  you  will  recall,  have  been  prayerful 
men.    Franklin  said : 

I  have  lived  a  long,  long  time,  and  the  longer  I  live  the  more  convincing 
proofs  I  see  of  this  fundamental  truth,  that  God  governs  in  the  aifairs  of 
men. 

He  approached  the  unselfishness  of  the  divine  when  in  his  prayer- 
ful appeal  he  said : 

For  my  friends,  and  for  their  prosperity,  and  for  the  fewness  of  my 
enemies,  Father,  I  thank  thee. 

Great  is  the  respect  and  great  the  admiration  we  have  for  George 
Washington  as  he  went  upon  his  knees  in  those  trying  days  at  Valley 
Forge  and  appealed  to  our  Heavenly  Father  that  his  powerful  hand  might 
be  stretched  forth  to  bring  success  to  the  armies  of  our  colonies  in  their 
struggle  for  liberty. 

Lincoln,  during  those  days  in  which  our  country  was  torn  with  war, 
set  apart  the  30th  of  April,  1863,  as  a  day  of  fasting  and  a  day  of  prayer, 
and  as  he  did  so  he  said : 

We  have  received  the  choicest  blessings  of  heaven ;  we  have  been  pre- 
served in  peace  and  prosperity  these  many  years ;  we  have  grown  in  num- 
bers, strength,  wealth  and  power  as  no  other  nation  has  ever  grown.  But, 

he  added: 

The  great  difficulty  with  our  nation  is,  we  have  forgotten  God. 

I  am  wondering  if  that  condition  prevails  today. 
He  says  further: 

And  we  have  vainly  imagined  in  the  deceitfulness  of  our  hearts  that 
this  unusual  outstanding  success  that  has  come  to  our  country  has  been  due 
to  some  superior  wisdom  or  virtue  of  our  own. 

Then  he  appeals  to  the  people  of  the  United  States  to  assemble  in  their 


Long  may  our  land  be  bright 
With  freedom's  holy  light; 
Protect  us  by  thy  might, 


Great  God  our  King. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


35 


various  places  of  worship,  to  call  their  families  together  around  their 
own  hearthstones,  and  to  appeal  to  our  Heavenly  Father  with  a  hope 
that  the  united  appeal  of  the  people  will  transform  what  was  then  our 
war-torn  country  into  its  former  condition  of  happiness  and  peace. 
A  great  American  has  written: 

Daily  we  assembled  in  Independence  Hall  when  we  were  struggling 
for  independence,  and  daily  we  offered  appeals  to  Divine  Providence  for 
his  guidance  and  for  his  help,  and  our  prayers  were  heard  and  they  were 
graciously  answered. 

I  am  just  wondering  if  we  the  people  of  the  United  States  have  forgotten 
our  powerful  Friend. 

AN  APPEAL  FOR  FAMILY  PRAYERS 

A  survey  was  made  by  the  United  States  government  in  1930  and 
revealed  among  other  things  that  only  one  in  eight  of  white  American- 
born  children  in  the  seventh,  eighth  and  ninth  grades  of  the  schools  of 
the  United  States  participate  in  family  prayers.  While  many  more  than 
this  attend  church,  the  survey  also  showed  that  in  the  cities  only  thirty 
per  cent,  and  in  the  country  only  thirty-eight  per  cent  of  the  people  ask 
a  blessing  on  their  food  at  meal  times. 

The  record  of  conditions  in  our  own  Church  of  course  is  far  better 
than  this,  but  I  am  wondering  in  how  many  of  our  homes  we  fail  to  par- 
ticipate in  family  prayers, — in  how  many  of  our  homes  we  do  not  express 
our  gratitude  and  thankfulness  for  the  food  we  have  to  eat.  And  fearing 
that  perhaps  we  too  may  also  be  forgetting  our  Father  in  heaven,  that 
powerful  Friend  that  gave  support  to  our  forefathers,  the  struggling 
colonies  in  America,  to  gain  their  independence,  that  powerful  Friend 
who  can  always  hear  and  who  led  our  fathers  in  their  matchless  march 
across  the  desert  and  directed  them  in  their  struggles  to  establish  here  in 
the  tops  of  these  mighty  mountains  the  "mountain  of  the  Lord's  House," 
— I  say  it  is  because  I  fear  that  we  may  be  forgetting  this  our  powerful 
Friend  that  I  am  making  this  appeal  to  you  who  are  here  assembled  and 
to  you  who  are  listening  in  and  to  the  people  of  the  Church  generally, 
to  participate  in  family  prayers.  And  I  appeal  not  only  for  participation 
in  family  prayers,  but  for  participation  in  secret  prayers,  and  for  partici- 
pation in  that  sacred  hour  of  worship  known  as  our  sacrament  meetings. 
On  these  occasions  it  seems  to  me  there  is  perhaps  an  opportunity  to  come 
into  a  closer  communion  with  our  Heavenly  Father  than  at  any  other 
time. 

If  we  assemble  in  our  sacrament  meetings  and  there  with  eyes  closed, 
heads  bowed  and  hearts  filled  with  a  prayerful  spirit,  we  appeal  humbly 
and  earnestly  to  our  Heavenly  Father  for  our  shortcomings  to  be  over- 
looked, for  our  sins  to  be  forgiven ;  if  there  we  appeal  for  strength  and 
power  to  carry  out  our  renewed  resolutions,  then  we  shall  have  awakened 
in  our  souls  that  faith  which  is  the  grain  of  mustard  seed  which  makes 
nothing  impossible. 

Prayer,  whether  in  the  family,  in  secret,  or  as  a  part  of  our  sacrament 
or  other  religious  service,  is  something  more  than  words ;  it  is  a  condition 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

of  the  soul.  It  is  an  expression  of  affection  for  f ellowmen ;  it  is  a  some- 
thing that  emphasizes  that  great  principle,  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor 
as  thyself."  The  Savior  reached  perfection  in  unselfishness  when  upon 
the  cross  he  prayed,  "Father,  forgive  them  for  they  know  not  what  they 
do."    (Luke  23:34.) 

Surely  we  can  never  forget  that  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  was  established  again  upon  the  earth  as  the  result  of 
the  prayer  of  faith  uttered  by  a  boy,  age  fourteen,  after  he  had  read  in 
the  Holy  Book  and  believed  the  words,  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let 
him  ask  of  God."  (James  1:5.)  Had  this  divine  message  made  a  less 
profound  impression  upon  the  mind  of  that  boy  and  if  he  had  not  had  faith 
enough  to  appeal  for  light  and  guidance,  I  am  wondering  how  and  when 
and  under  what  condition  the  Church  of  the  Master  might  then  have  been 
restored  to  the  earth. 

If  it  was  necessary  for  the  Savior  to  offer  his  prayers  daily,  if  it 
was  necessary  for  him,  being  divine,  to  appeal  with  such  earnestness  and 
such  regularity  to  our  Heavenly  Father,  if  it  was  necessary  for  the  Pro- 
phet Joseph  Smith  to  make  prayerful  appeals  so  frequently  and  so  earn- 
estly to  our  Heavenly  Father,  how  much  more  is  it  necessary  for  us  to 
do  this ! 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  PRAYER  IN  LIBERTY  JAIL 

President  Grant  read  this  morning  a  part  of  section  121  of  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  To  give  you  some  idea  of  the  earnestness  with 
which  the  Prophet  made  his  appeals  I  am  going  to  read  the  first  part  of 
that  same  section  121 — a  prayer  of  the  Prophet : 

O  God,  where  art  thou  ?  *  *  How  long  shalt  thy  hand  be  stayed,  and 
thine  eye,  yea  thy  pure  eye,  behold  from  the  heavens  the  wrongs  of  thy 
people  and  of  thy  servants,  and  thine  ear  be  penetrated  with  their  cries? 

Yea,  O  Lord,  how  long  shall  they  suffer  these  wrongs  and  unlawful 
oppressions,  before  thine  heart  shall  be  softened  toward  them,  and  thy 
bowels  be  moved  with  compassion  toward  them? 

O  Lord  God  Almighty,  maker  of  heaven,  earth,  and  seas,  and  of  all 
things  that  in  them  are,  *  *  stretch  forth  thy  powerful  hand ;  let  thine 
eye  pierce ;  *  *  let  thy  hiding  place  no  longer  be  covered ;  let  thine  ear  be 
inclined ;  let  thine  heart  be  softened,  and  thy  bowels  moved  with  compassion 
toward  us.  *  * 

Remember  thy  suffering  saints,  O  our  God;  and  thy  servants  will  re- 
joice in  thy  name  forever. 

No  revelation  was  ever  thrust  upon  the  Prophet.  These  came  only 
as  a  result  of  solemn,  earnest,  prayerful  appeals  for  help  and  guidance. 
He  says  the  Lord  responded  to  his  supplications.  Revelations  were  re- 
ceived in  answer  to  the  Prophet's  supplications  and  inquiries.  Words  to 
this  effect  are  found  in  the  preliminary  statements  in  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants  to  practically  all  the  revelations  which  were  given  to  the 
Prophet.  Only  faith  and  faithfulness  and  earnest,  devoted  appeals 
brought  the  light  and  guidance  and  inspiration  of  heaven  in  the  form 
of  revelations. 

I  repeat,  if  it  was  necessary  for  the  Savior  himself  and  for  the  Proph- 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


37 


et  to  make  these  earnest  and  frequent  appeals  to  our  Heavenly  Father, 
how  much  more  is  it  necessary  for  us  to  do  so. 

QUOTATIONS  FROM  A  YOUNG  MAN'S  LETTER 

To  give  you  something  of  the  spirit  of  one  of  our  Latter-day  Saint 
homes,  I  have  here  a  quotation  from  a  young  man  reared  in  one  of  our 
Latter-day  Saint  families.  I  wonder  if  he  describes  the  condition  that 
prevails  in  our  homes  today: 

Daily,  he  says,  we  had  our  family  prayers.  In  father's  absence  mother 
was  in  charge,  and  she  would  either  lead  in  prayer  or  call  on  one  of  us  chil- 
dren to  do  so.  However,  when  father  was  present  he  always  did  the  praying, 
and  what  beautiful,  what  wonderful  prayers  they  were!  It  seemed  to  me 
that  he  always  talked  to  Divinity  in  the  same  familiar  manner  and  matter- 
of-fact  way  as  if  he  were  conversing  with  a  friendly  comrade  who  sat  before 
him  as  he  kneeled.  In  my  later  years  as  I  have  been  cognizant  of  the  hatred, 
the  strife,  the  bitter  jealousy  and  turmoil  in  the  hearts  of  men,  the  desire 
or  willingness  of  many  to  take  unfair  advantage  of  their  neighbors,  and  the 
absence  of  the  spirit  of  brotherly  love  and  kindly  charity  in  so  many  places 
in  the  world,  I  have  many  times  thought  that  if  every  home  in  the  land 
could  hear  such  prayers  daily  by  the  head  of  the  family  as  my  parents  used 
to  utter  in  great  humility  and  earnest  sincerity  and  in  kindly  confidence  and 
cordial  good  will,  expressing  genuine  devotion  and  brotherly  anxiety  for  the 
welfare  of  mankind,  then  the  reign  of  love  and  peace  and  good  will  upon  the 
earth,  the  great  difficulties  between  man  and  man,  and  nation  and  nation, 
would  quickly  vanish  and  the  threatening  clouds  of  war  and  trouble  would 
disappear.    (Dr.  M.  C.  Merrill) 

ADMONITION  TO  SEEK  THE  LORD 

I  will  conclude  as  I  began,  with  the  words  of  Isaiah : 

Seek  ye  the  Lord  while  he  may  be  found ;  call  ye  upon  him  while  he  is 
near. 

And  those  impressive  words  of  the  Savior  also, 

Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you ;  seek,  and  ye  shall  find ;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you  :  For  everyone  that  asketh  receiveth ;  and  he  that 
seeketh  findeth ;  and  to  him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be  opened. 

May  we  be  faithful ;  may  we  be  devoted  to  our  Heavenly  Father ;  may 
we  remember  our  daily  prayers,  and  our  secret  prayers;  may  we  join  in 
the  prayers  offered  in  our  places  of  worship,  that  the  work  of  the  Lord 
may  go  on  with  more  rapidity  and  speed.  And  I  humbly  pray  that  our 
appeals  may  be  made  in  faith  believing,  that  our  prayers  may  ascend  to 
the  throne  of  grace,  that  they,  united  with  the  prayerful  appeals  of  all 
good  people,  may  help  to  bring  that  peace  on  earth  and  good  will  to  men 
which  is  to  follow  conversion  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 


38 

Thursday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

What  is  man  that  Thou  art  mindful  of  him,  and  the  son  of  man,  that 
Thou  didst  visit  him? 

For  Thou  hast  made  him  a  little  lower  than  the  angels  and  hast  crowned 
him  with  glory  and  honor. 

Thou  madest  him  to  have  dominion  over  the  works  of  Thy  hands ; 
Thou  hast  put  all  things  under  his  foot : 

man's  PLACE  IN  THE  UNIVERSE 

Such  is  the  tribute  of  the  psalmist  to  the  dignity,  the  nobility,  the 
power,  and  the  station  of  man  in  the  universe. 

How  came  man  to  this  glorious  place  of  distinction  and  majesty 
among  all  God's  creations  ?  The  answer  is  in  the  delineation  of  his  origin 
and  history.  Man,  with  Christ,  was  "also  in  the  beginning  with  the 
Father."  In  his  first  estate,  that  is,  before  he  came  to  this  earth,  his 
spirit  was  the  literal  child  of  God.  "Before  I  formed  thee  in  the  belly, 
I  knew  thee,"  declared  the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Jeremiah.  And  in  his 
second  estate,  which  is  mortality,  "God  created  man  in  his  own  image, 
in  the  image  of  God  created  he  him,  male  and  female,  created  he  them." 
"And  the  Lord  God  created  man  of  the  dust  of  the  ground  and  breathed 
into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life  and  man  became  a  living  soul."  Thus 
the  eternal  spirit  of  man  became  housed  in  a  tabernacle  of  flesh  in  the 
likeness  of  the  Father,  and  the  sons  of  God  began  life  upon  the  earth. 

They  were  not  menial  nor  of  low  or  servile  nature.  They  were  of 
high  estate,  of  the  noblest  lineage,  endowed  with  the  God-given  gift  of 
intelligence  or  the  light  of  truth,  the  sublime  and  supreme  investiture  of 
both  God  and  man,  the  eternal  verity  which  "was  not  created  or  made, 
neither  indeed  can  be."  This  intelligence  not  only  gave  man  superiority 
over  all  other  creations  but,  even  more  importantly,  it  brought  him  con- 
sciousness of  his  relationship  to  God  and  the  world  and  envisaged  for  him 
the  purpose  and  destiny  of  his  life. 

POWER  OF  CHOICE  A  GIFT  FROM  GOD 

With  intelligence  came  a  concomitant  heritage  equally  essential  to 
the  eternal  progress  and  development  of  man, — that  of  free  agency, 
or  the  power  of  choice.  For,  "the  Lord  gave  unto  man  that  he  should 
act  for  himself,  wherefore  men  are  free  according  to  the  flesh;  *  *  * 
they  are  free  to  choose  liberty  and  eternal  life  through  the  great  media- 
tion of  all  men  or  to  choose  captivity  and  death  according  to  the  captivity 
and  power  of  the  devil."  This  power  of  choice  is  essential  to  our  very 
existence  for  "it  must  needs  be  that  the  devil  should  tempt  the  children 
of  men  or  they  could  not  be  agents  unto  themselves,  for  if  they  never 
should  have  bitter,  they  could  not  know  the  sweet."  (Members  of  the 
Church  will  recognize  these  quotations.) 

This  theological  doctrine  of  free  agency  which  has  been  proclaimed 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


39 


by  our  Church  from  its  very  beginning,  this  glorious  concept  of  man's 
intelligence  and  his  incomparable  status  in  the  universe,  upon  which  more 
light  and  clearer  explanation  have  come  through  the  latter-day  revelations 
of  our  Prophet  than  from  any  other  source  whatsoever,  lie  at  the  very 
foundation  of,  and  indeed  constitute  the  essence  of  the  most  discussed,  the 
most  contested,  and  the  most  priceless  thing  in  the  world  today, — human 
liberty.  It  is  as  a  premise  to  a  few  observations  on  this  important  subject 
that  I  have  cited  some  of  our  doctrine. 

LIBERTY  ESSENTIAL  TO  MAN 

Perhaps  I  should  define  liberty,  but  I  do  not  propose  to  do  so.  I 
have  heard  many  definitions  but  I  need  not  choose  among  them.  For 
our  purposes  here,  everyone  knows  sufficiently  well  what  liberty  means. 
Every  man  senses  it,  which  is  infinitely  more  important  than  being  able  to 
formulate  a  definition.  The  more  vital  and  less  academic  question  is  how 
to  secure,  defend,  and  preserve  the  liberty  of  mankind. 

Now  I  maintain,  simple  and  naive  as  it  may  sound  to  some,  that  the 
first  and  prime  necessity  in  the  accomplishment  of  this  all  important 
task  is  a  definite  and  conscious  understanding  of  two  things :  First,  what 
is  this  man  for  whom  liberty  is  so  essential  ? — and  second,  what  does  one 
do  with  liberty  when  once  acquired  ?  With  reference  to  the  first  item  I 
believe  I  have  given  a  summary  of  our  doctrine  from  which  it  may  be 
logically  deduced  that  man  is  vastly  greater  and  more  important  than 
anything  else  in  the  universe ;  that  all  other  creations  are  designed  pri- 
marily to  serve  his  needs  and  purposes ;  that  all  institutions,  ecclesiastical, 
civic,  and  social  are  but  adjuncts  and  contributory  to  his  progress  and 
welfare  ;  and  that  no  government,  no  science,  no  art,  no  philosophy,  and  no 
order  of  society  is  greater  than  the  intelligence  and  personality  who 
invents,  devises,  executes,  and  maintains  them.  Even  the  Church,  which 
is  set  up  under  decree  of  God,  is  not  greater  than  man,  for  it  is  established 
merely  to  conserve  the  progress  and  welfare  of  man. 

OPINION  OF  A  NOTED  AUTHOR 

In  this  connection,  I  have  read  nothing  more  stimulating  in  a  long 
time  than  Dr.  Link's  new  book  entitled,  The  Rediscovery  of  Man.  I 
wish  that  everyone  could  read  particularly  the  first  chapter  in  which  he 
decries  that  modern  philosophy  rampant  throughout  the  world  in  the 
last  several  decades  which  has  debased  the  noble  concept  of  man  as  a 
son  of  God,  the  master  of  things  and  himself. 

He  begins  by  pronouncing  Harvard  University's  Tercentenary  Con- 
ference of  Arts  and  Sciences  held  in  1936  the  greatest  tragedy  of  the 
age.  Here  the  outstanding  scholars  of  the  world  in  profound  deliberation 
reached  the  conclusion  that  while  science  had  made  great  contributions  to 
man's  physical  progress,  "the  automobile,  the  x-ray,  insulin,  and  thou- 
sands of  other  things,  but  that  the  social  studies  *  *  *  had  contributed 
little  or  nothing  to  man's  understanding  of  himself,"  that  the  sciences 
"had  given  man  a  miraculous  control  over  his  physical  environment"  but 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

"they  had  added  practically  nothing  to  his  control  of  his  personal  and 
social  behavior,"  and  that  "individuals  were  more  at  war  with  them- 
selves, nations  more  liable  to  internal  strife,  and  the  world  farther  from 
international  peace  than  before."  "This,"  says  Dr.  Link,  "was  the  gist 
of  Harvard's  celebration  of  its  300th  year.  *  *  *  Add  to  this  the  fact 
that  Harvard  was  founded,  like  most  of  our  historically  great  universities, 
by  the  religious  leaders  of  the  time  to  prepare  students  'for  public 
employment  both  in  church  and  in  state'  and  the  tragedy  is  complete. 
Three  hundred  years  of  science  and  education,  of  emancipation  from 
religion,  and  to  what  end  ?" 

He  answers  his  own  question :  "to  the  end  that  the  true  values  of 
personality  and  character  have  been  almost  completely  buried ;  that  our 
educational  system  has  become  the  most  elaborate  plan  ever  devised  for 
obscuring  the  obvious  and  homely  facts  of  life,  to  the  end  that  we  have 
created  a  complex  system  of  ideas  which,  instead  of  helping  mankind, 
threatens  like  a  parasitic  growth  to  kill  the  very  civilization  which  it  has 
produced."  "A  scientist  like  Alexis  Carrell  can  write  a  book  on  Man,  the 
Unknown — not  because  man  is  unknown,  but  because  science  has  dis- 
membered him  almost  beyond  recognition." 

Now  my  friends,  these  are  the  comments  and  conclusions  of  a 
scientist,  a  psychologist  of  great  distinction  with  long  years  of  training 
and  a  vast  experience  with  individuals.  Is  it  not  time  that  there  be 
reconstructed  for  the  world  the  noble  concept  of  man  that  makes  him 
something  more  than  a  mere  chemical  automaton  in  a  mechanistic  uni- 
verse with  a  defeatist  philosophy  that  robs  him  of  the  highest  incentives, 
the  finer  virtues,  and  self-control?  I  believe  with  Dr.  Link  that  it  is 
high  time,  and  I  thank  God  that  there  is  an  institution  in  the  earth  pre- 
pared and  ordained  to  do  just  that  thing  for  humanity.  Only  when  it  is 
done  will  the  first  sure  foundation  for  liberty  be  laid. 

FREE  AGENCY  EXERCISED  THROUGH  KNOWLEDGE 

What,  I  ask  again,  are  we  to  do  with  our  liberty  when  once 
acquired  and  how  shall  we  preserve  it  ?  Here,  too,  the  answer  comes  from 
an  adequate  understanding  of  theological  doctrines.  Free  agency  is  the 
inherent  right  of  man.  Through  it  he  may  exalt  or  condemn  himself. 
He  can  exercise  his  power  of  choice  intelligently  and  wisely  only  when  he 
has  knowledge  of  truth,  because  truth  is  the  criterion  by  which  his 
elections  become  good  os  bad,  helpful  or  harmful  to  himself  and  his 
progress. 

What  is  truth?  Here  I  must  give  you  an  inspired  definition,  a  defi- 
nition that  came  from  an  unsophisticated  boy-prophet,  but  one  which 
rivals  the  definitions  of  the  greatest  scholars  and  of  all  time.  "Truth," 
says  Joseph  Smith,  "is  the  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are  and  as  they 
were,  and  as  they  are  to  come."  How  is  such  knowledge  to  be  obtained? 
Through  science  and  education  ?  Yes,  in  part,  but  not  wholly.  And  why 
not  completely?  Because  most  of  the  knowledge  of  things  "as  they 
were"  and  things  that  "are  to  come"  are  without  the  realm  and  province 
of  science,  as  well  as  much  knowledge  of  "things  as  they  are."  Science, 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


41 


then,  can  give  us  but  fragments  of  truth,  not  the  whole  truth.  And  the 
whole  truth  is  necessary  if  we  are  to  be  provided  with  proper  criteria 
by  which  to  do  our  choosing. 

FAITH  THE  KEY  TO  KNOWLEDGE 

How,  then,  is  the  whole  truth  to  be  secured?  The  key  is  to  be 
found  in  another  revelation,  "the  spirit  of  truth  is  of  God."  That  being 
so,  we  must,  of  necessity  have  God's  aid  in  the  acquisition  of  truth. 
His  aid  comes  through  faith  and  prayer.  Faith  contemplates  the  ac- 
ceptance of  the  spiritual  reality  of  a  world  outside  the  domain  of  science. 
It  involves  methods  and  processes  different  from  those  of  scientific  re- 
search. It  postulates  humility  and  dependence  on  divine  power,  the  an- 
tipathies of  egotism  and  self-sufficiency.  A  contrite  heart  is  the  fertile 
field  for  planting  the  seeds  of  truth.  In  such  a  field  they  come  to  fruition 
in  a  knowledge,  understanding,  and  conviction  of  the  great  concepts  of 
life  which  defy  the  reason  and  philosophy  of  the  arrogant,  and  self- 
sufficient,  who  will  not  stoop  to  the  methods  of  the  humble. 

TRUTH  AND  LIBERTY 

What,  then,  has  truth  to  do  with  liberty?  Jesus  gave  the  answer 
when  he  said  to  his  disciples,  "and  ye  shall  know  the  truth  and  the  truth 
shall  make  you  free."  Free  from  what?  Free  from  all  unrighteousness 
and  every  sort  of  bondage  that  inhibits  the  growth  and  progress  of  the 
race.  It  requires  but  a  moment's  consideration  for  any  sane,  logical 
person  to  reach  the  conclusion  that  there  is  no  freedom  and  no  liberty 
worth  striving  for  and  preserving  that  does  not  contemplate  the  exercise 
of  free  agency  in  truth,  in  virtue,  and  in  righteousness.  Any  other 
hypothesis  would  mean  complete  frustration  and  ruin.  This  is  the  second 
foundation  for  liberty. 

What  then  is  the  application  of  these  doctrines  to  conditions  in  the 
world  today  ?  I  believe  it  to  be  this :  that  no  nation  under  heaven  can 
successfully  preserve  this  great  boon  of  liberty  and  freedom  unless  the 
people  of  that  nation  have  a  truthful  conception  of  the  status  of  man  in 
the  earth  and  also  an  adequate  understanding  of  the  exercise  of  the 
options  and  powers  of  free  agency  in  conformity  with  the  standards  of 
righteousness.  So  surely  as  either  of  these  concepts  shall  vanish,  will 
bondage  ensue.  And  this  applies  with  equal  force  to  the  enlightened  of 
the  world  as  to  those  in  darkness,  as  witness  the  countries  of  Europe 
today.  Philosophies  are  more  potent  than  armies  in  the  progress  of 
civilization.  "As  a  man  thinketh,  so  is  he,"  and  a  nation  is  but  an  aggre- 
gation of  men.  Too  often  we  think  we  think  enmasse, — but  we  don't, — 
there  is  no  mass  mind/ — only  that  of  the  individual.  That  is  why  person- 
ality is  so  important  to  the  happiness  and  peace  of  the  world.  You  just 
have  to  make  enough  good  men,  and  society  and  nations  are  good. 

TRUE  LIBERTY  AND  INDIVIDUAL  ACHIEVEMENT 

Now  I  scarcely  need  say  that  having  great  concepts  in  the  abstract 
is  sufficient.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  great  concepts  are  really  not  acquired  in 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

the  abstract.  True  philosophy  comes  out  of  life  and  living,  and  truth 
becomes  part  of  us  only  as  it  is  incorporated  in  our  habits.  Individual 
strength  to  acquire  the  truth  is  what  every  man  needs.  No  one  can  do 
it  for  another.  It  is  so  with  liberty.  We  usually  speak  of  it  as  a  heritage 
from  the  fathers, — something  handed  down  to  us.  It  is  more  accurate 
to  say  that  the  opportunity  to  acquire  liberty  is  passed  on  to  us,  for  true 
liberty  is  a  personal  achievement,  as  I  have  tried  to  point  out  to  you. 

I  am  sure  that  it  is  regrettable  and  a  point  of  real  hazard  to  individual 
liberty  that  in  many  countries,  even  to  some  extent  in  our  own  beloved 
America,  there  is  a  clearly  discernible  tendency  to  relieve  people  of 
responsibilities  which  they  have  long  been  accustomed  to  bear  and  to 
extend  paternalistic  solicitude  and  care  to  vast  portions  of  the  popula- 
tion. However  well  intentioned  such  policies,  I  am  confident  they  are 
destined  to  result  in  weakening  of  moral  fiber,  increased  dependencies, 
and,  more  importantly  and  worse  than  all,  eventually,  a  destruction  of 
the  fundamental  concepts  and  philosophies  that  have  been  responsible 
for  the  progress  of  humanity  in  the  world. 

THE  MISSION  OF  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

What,  then,  shall  we  do  about  it  ?  I  think  our  mission  is  clear.  We 
are  to  go  forth,  not  boastfully,  but  confidently,  to  deliver  our  message  of 
truth  to  our  f  ellowmen.  To  give  the  message,  we  must  live  it  and  we  must 
truly  love  those  to  whom  we  are  sent. 

Let  us  never  forget  that  we  are  disciples  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
He  is  our  Leader  and  Exemplar.  There  must  be  no  bitterness  in  our 
hearts  and  no  harsh  judgment  for  any  of  our  Father's  children.  Mercy, 
kindness,  tolerance,  and  love  are  the  passwords  that  shall  open  our  way 
into  the  hearts  of  men.  Of  this  I  am  confident :  if  we  love  them  enough, 
they  will  receive  us.  When  they  do  and  when  we  become  qualified  to 
deliver  the  truth  in  the  spirit  of  Christ,  then  will  peace  and  righteousness 
and  liberty  be  secure.  God  grant  this  happy  consummation,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

An  anthem,  "O  Morn  of  Beauty"  (Sibelius)  was  sung  by  the 
Singing  Mothers  (Soloist,  Mrs.  Margaret  Marchant). 

ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  For  a  number  of  years  it  has  been  my 
privilege  to  appear  before  you  in  these  conference  meetings  as  a  mission 
president  of  the  Church.  In  that  assignment,  and  the  fulfilment  of  the 
duties  and  obligations  in  connection  therewith,  I  found  exceeding  great 
joy.  I  love  the  missionary  work  of  the  Church  and  the  privilege  it  af- 
fords of  bearing  testimony  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  and  of  the 
divine  mission  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  and  the  accomplishments 
of  this  great  organization. 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


43 


A  year  ago  I  was  sustained  as  the  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church ; 
and  the  duties  and  responsibilities  of  this  office,  during  the  past  year, 
have  also  brought  great  joy  to  me  and  evidence  that  in  every  branch  of 
the  work  the  inspiration  and  revelation  of  the  Lord  are  guiding  and  direct- 
ing the  destinies  of  this  Church. 

THE  PRINCIPLE  OF  GIVING 

In  this  position  my  duties  are  more  or  less  temporal,  and  I  find 
satisfaction  therein.  I  should  like  to  call  your  attention  to  one  principle 
the  Latter-day  Saints  have  learned  to  understand.  They  have  learned 
to  know  the  meaning  of  the  word  "give."  We  give  of  our  time;  we 
give  of  our  talents;  we  give  of  our  means.  Our  fathers  and  mothers 
give  their  boys  and  girls  to  the  missionary  service  of  the  Church,  and 
wives  give  their  husbands.  As  I  have  often  said  in  the  mission  field, 
if  one  is  looking  for  an  easy  religion  he  had  better  not  bother  with 
Mormonism.  Most  of  us  know  that  we  are  at  the  call  of  the  Church  all 
the  time.  In  fact,  my  wife  has  always  said  the  children  belong  to  her 
and  I  belong  to  the  Church ;  and  I  presume  there  are  many  brethren  here, 
and  sisters  too,  who  feel  the  same  way  about  it. 

We  know  the  history  of  the  Saints ;  we  know  the  great  sacrifices 
that  have  been  made.  Those  of  us  who  have  filled  missions  in  foreign 
lands  have  seen  the  Saints  leave  all  that  was  dear  to  them.  We  know  the 
history  of  the  pioneers  as  they  left  their  homes  behind  and  came  to  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains. 

During  the  past  year,  traveling  throughout  the  Church,  my  heart 
has  been  moved  because  of  the  faith  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  It  seemed  to 
make  no  difference  whether  they  were  to  travel  ten  miles,  a  hundred  miles, 
or  two  hundred  miles,  they  were  always  there  when  the  call  came.  They 
do  not  ask  for  compensation ;  they  do  not  ask  for  expense  money.  They 
know  that  they  are  to  bear  the  burden  of  their  missionary  boys  and  girls, 
and  the  expense.  They  have  learned  how  to  give,  and  as  I  study  the 
scriptures  and  read  the  words  of  the  prophets  and  of  the  Master  him- 
self, it  seems  to  me  that  the  one  thing  above  all  others  in  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  that  men  should  be  willing  to  give  their  all. 

THE  GOSPEL  REQUIRES  SERVICE 

We  are  commanded  to  love  God  first  above  all  other  things,  and  our 
f  ellowmen  like  unto  ourselves.  One  good  man  who  came  to  the  Master 
said :  "Lord,  I  will  follow  thee  whithersoever  thou  goest."  As  though 
he  would  say  to  all  coming  generations :  "If  ye  follow  me,  ye  need  expect 
no  compensation,"  He  replied :  "Foxes  have  holes,  and  the  birds  of  the 
air  have  nests,  but  the  Son  of  Man  hath  not  where  to  lay  his  head." 

And  to  another  he  said  :  "Follow  me."  But  he  said :  "Lord,  suffer 
me  first  to  go  and  bury  my  father."  There  are  very  few  obligations  in 
life  more  important  than  burying  one's  father,  but  the  Lord  wanted  to 
impress  upon  his  servants  the  importance  of  a  call  from  him,  and  so  he 
said :  "Let  the  dead  bury  their  dead ;  but  go  thou  and  preach  the  kingdom 
of  God." 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Oay 

And  another  said:  "Lord,  I  will  follow  Thee,  but  let  me  first  go 
bid  them  farewell,  which  are  at  home  at  my  house."  Jesus  answered : 
"No  man,  having  put  his  hand  to  the  plow,  and  looking  back,  is  fit  for  the 
kingdom  of  God."  He  expects  real  service  but  offers  no  monetary  com- 
pensation. 

Then  he  sent  the  Seventy  out.  He  gave  them  nothing,  but  he  gave 
them  of  his  power,  and  said :  "He  that  heareth  you  heareth  me ;  and  he 
that  despiseth  you  despiseth  me."  And  they  returned  again  with  joy 
saying :  "Lord,  even  the  devils  are  subject  unto  us  through  thy  name." 

Speaking  again  of  service,  he  said :  "He  that  loveth  father  or 
mother  more  than  me  is  not  worthy  of  me ;  and  he  that  loveth  son  or 
daughter  more  than  me  is  not  worthy  of  me.  And  he  that  taketh  not 
his  cross  and  f olloweth  after  me,  is  not  worthy  of  me.  He  that  findeth 
his  life  shall  lose  it ;  and  he  that  loseth  his  life  for  my  sake  shall  find  it." 


MORE  THAN  SERVICE  REQUIRED 

In  addition  to  giving  ourselves,  and  giving  our  services,  the  Lord 
has  asked  us  to  give  of  our  means  and  our  substance.  We  have  men  in 
the  Church  who  give  their  time,  they  will  go  when  they  are  asked  to 
preach,  they  will  perform  a  public  duty,  but  it  is  hard  to  do  the  little  duty 
that  is  seen  in  secret  by  them  and  God  alone  and  their  presiding  officers. 
And  so  we  are  asked  to  contribute  our  tithes  and  offerings,  not  only  be- 
cause the  Church  needs  money  to  build  itself,  for  before  there  was  an 
organization  of  the  Church,  God  introduced  the  principle  of  sacrifice  in 
order  that  his  servants  and  his  children  might  be  tested,  that  they  should 
bring  the  best  of  their  lands  and  of  their  herds ;  and,  because  the  Church 
did  not  need  these  things,  and  there  were  no  poor  to  feed,  they  were 
burned  upon  the  altar  of  sacrifice ;  but  the  giving  sanctified  the  souls  of 
those  who  gave. 

The  Lord  apparently  realized  that  some  men  can  give  service  easier 
than  money  or  goods.  We  have  the  lesson  of  the  rich  young  man  who 
came  to  the  Master  inquiring  what  he  might  do  to  inherit  eternal  life.  He 
was  told  that  he  should  "keep  the  commandments,"  to  which  he  replied : 
"All  these  things  I  have  kept  from  my  youth  up,  what  lack  I  yet  ?"  We  are 
told  in  Mark's  account:  "Then  Jesus  beholding  him  loved  him."  He 
loved  him  for  the  good  things  he  had  done  and  sought  to  show  him  the 
way  to  perfection,  so  he  answered :  "If  thou  wilt  be  perfect,  go  and  sell 
that  thou  hast,  and  give  to  the  poor,  and  thou  shalt  have  treasure  in  heaven ; 
and  come  and  follow  me."  But  the  young  man  turned  away  sorrowful : 
"for  he  had  great  possessions." 

The  prophet  Malachi  declared  that  in  the  last  days  the  Lord  should 
send  his  messenger  to  prepare  the  way  before  him,  and  he  called  upon 
Israel,  and  I  interpret  that  to  mean  latter-day  Israel,  to  return  unto  him 
and  promised  that  he  would  return  unto  them,  and  they  said :  "Wherein 
shall  we  return  unto  Thee  ?"  And  he  said :  "In  your  tithes  and  offerings, 
*  *  *  *  for  ye  have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole  nation.  Bring  ye  all 
the  tithes  into  the  storehouse,  that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine  house." 

And  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  need  the 


ELDER  LeGRAND  RICHARDS 


45 


tithes  of  the  Saints  in  order  that  the  kingdom  might  go  on,  for  it  shall 
be  builded  just  as  rapidly  as  the  faith  of  the  Saints  can  build  it,  and  it  is 
retarded  when  there  is  a  lack  of  faith. 

PROMISES  OF  THE  LORD 

And  so  the  Lord  proceeded  to  promise  those  who  would  bring  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings  together,  that  he  would  rebuke  the  devourer 
for  their  sakes,  and  that  a  book  of  remembrance  should  be  written  before 
him  for  them  that  feared  the  Lord,  "And  they  shall  be  mine,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  in  that  day  when  I  make  up  my  jewels.  *  *  *  *  then 
shall  ye  return  and  discern  between  the  righteous  and  the  wicked,  between 
him  that  serveth  God  and  him  that  serveth  him  not." 

Now)  as  a  member  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  I  feel  that  the  store- 
house of  the  Lord  should  be  replenished.  We  have  heard  the  report 
today.  Much  has  been  accomplished ;  the  faith  of  the  Saints  is  not  lacking, 
because  our  receipts  have  been  equal  to  any  year  of  the  past ;  but  there 
are  still  many  who  lack  the  faith  to  do  their  part  in  rolling  on  the  king- 
dom of  God  in  the  earth. 

EMPLOYMENT  SHOULD  BE  PROVIDED 

In  our  office  we  contact  many  of  our  brethren  who  are  out  of  em- 
ployment. Some  of  them  are  choice  men  of  the  Church,  men  who.  have 
labored  diligently  and  made  great  sacrifices,  have  sent  their  boys  and  girls 
on  missions,  and  my  soul  has  been  moved  with  compassion.  I  believe  if 
my  greatest  desire  were  fulfilled  it  would  be  that  I  could  provide  em- 
ployment for  all  these  fine  men  who  are  worthy  servants  of  God.  We 
can  help  to  feed  and  clothe  them,  and  we  will  do  that ;  but  we  must  also, 
as  bishops  and  as  quorum  officers  and  ward  work  directors,  put  forth  every 
effort  to  provide  employment  for  them.  In  this  connection,  I  thank  the 
Lord  for  this  great  Welfare  Program  of  the  Church,  which  is  assisting 
in  such  a  marvelous  manner.  But  I  believe  we  should  have  a  little  more 
consideration  as  bishops  and  quorum  officers  to  sit  down  with  our  brethren 
and  study  their  needs  and  see  if  there  is  not  enough  genius  in  the  leader- 
ship of  the  wards  and  stakes  and  priesthood  quorums  to  be  able  to  pro- 
vide activities  for  these  fine  men. 

Now,  the  Master  tells  us  that  when  he  shall  come  in  his  glory  and 
all  the  holy  angels  with  him,  and  before  him  shall  be  gathered  all  nations, 
that  as  the  shepherd  divideth  his  sheep  from  the  goats  he  shall  separate 
them  one  from  another,  and  to  them  on  his  right  hand  he  shall  say :  "Come, 
ye  blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world.  For  I  was  an  hungred,  and  ye  gave  me  meat ; 
I  was  thirsty  and  ye  gave  me  drink ;  I  was  a  stranger  and  ye  took  me  in ; 
naked  and  ye  clothed  me ;  I  was  sick  and  ye  visited  me ;  I  was  in  prison  and 
ye  came  unto  me." 

Then  shall  the  righteous  answer  him  saying,  "Lord,  when  saw  we 
thee  an  hungred,  and  fed  thee,  or  thirsty  and  gave  thee  drink?  When 
saw  we  thee  a  stranger,  and  took  thee  in,  or  naked,  and  clothed  thee  ?  Or 
when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in  prison,  and  came  unto  thee  ?" 


46  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

Then  shall  he  say  unto  them :  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto 
one  of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

In  closing,  may  I  say  unto  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  think 
it  is  a  grand  and  glorious  thing  that  the  Lord  has  re-established  his  Church, 
that  so  efficiently,  and  without  cost  of  administration,  is  able  to  do  so 
much  to  care  for  the  unfortunate  of  its  members.  I  feel  that  the  bishops 
and  the  presidents  of  stakes  and  those  who  preside  with  them  in  the  wards 
and  stakes  of  Zion  should  realize  the  great  responsibility  that  is  theirs 
and  should  not  regard  it  lightly,  but  should  do  all  they  can  do  to  care  for 
their  brethren. 

God  grant  that  his  Spirit,  and  inspiration  and  revelation,  may  ever 
guide  the  destiny  of  this  Church.  Of  all  men  who  are  examples  to  the 
Church  in  this  spirit  of  giving  is  our  worthy  president.  I  remember,  as 
many  of  you  do,  when  he  was  sustained  as  the  President  of  the  Church, 
he  said  he  would  never  ask  any  man  to  give  more,  in  proportion  to  his 
ability  to  give,  than  he,  or  to  be  more  faithful  in  observing  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  than  he ;  and  we  all  love  him  for  his  noble  example. 

God  bless  the  Latter-day  Saints,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  W.  SEEGMILLER 

President  of  the  Western  States  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  happy  in  having  the  privilege  of  rep- 
resenting the  Western  States  Mission.  In  this  mission  we  have  over 
8,000  members,  and  87  missionaries.  Throughout  the  states  where  we 
labor  people  treat  us  with  respect  and  consideration  everywhere. 

In  the  membership  of  the  Western  States  Mission  we  have  those 
who  are  as  capable,  as  worthy,  and  as  faithful  as  there  are  in  any  of  the 
wards  of  the  Church  where  I  have  lived. 

I  am  happy  today  to  know  that  from  Denver  25  Singing  Mothers 
are  here.  I  am  sure  that  the  inspiration  of  these  Singing  Mothers  is  suffi- 
cient compensation  to  justify  the  presence  of  any  of  us. 

I  was  happy  this  morning  when  I  heard  the  report  read  by  President 
McKay  and  noticed  that  the  Kanab  Stake  led  the  Church  in  paying  fast 
offerings.  I  have  spent  most  of  my  days  in  the  Kanab  Stake,  and  I  feel 
a  humble  but  justifiable  pride  in  the  fact  that  they  demonstrate  that  they 
love  their  neighbor  as  themselves,  for  how  does  it  help  him  who  is  hungry 
or  cold  to  recognize  his  hunger  and  his  need  of  clothing,  without  providing 
for  him.  So,  to  the  Kanab  Stake  I  want  to  say  I  was  happy  in  hearing 
their  record  read. 

We  have  many  fine  opportunities  in  the  Western  States  Mission, 
greater  opportunities  than  were  known  when  I  first  went  to  the  mission 
field.  We  are  provided  with  equipment  that  we  little  dreamed  of  when  I 
was  a  boy  in  the  mission  field,  and  we  are  asked  to  give  our  program, 
"The  Fulness  of  Time,"  everywhere.  Radio  stations  are  asking  us  to 
bring  these  records  to  them.  People  are  asking  us  throughout  the  Western 


ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 


47 


States  Mission  to  give  them  opportunity  to  hear  the  history  of  the  Church 
as  recorded  in  "The  Fulness  of  Time." 

Such  a  thing  as  this  was  not  even  dreamed  of  when  I  was  a  boy  in 
Germany  preaching  the  Gospel. 

The  other  day  at  Scottsbluff ,  Nebraska,  a  sectarian  minister,  in  speak- 
ing to  his  congregation,  said :  "There  is  no  church  in  this  city  that  offers 
a  program  for  the  social  entertainment  and  education  of  our  youth ;  and 
if  ever  a  church  does  offer  such  a  program,  God  will  bless  that  church." 

Elder  John  O.  Livesy,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  wrote  me  a  letter  the  next 
morning  and  said :  "I  am  going  to  that  minister  tomorrow  and  tell  him 
that  we  have  a  Mutual  Improvement  Association  organized  in  this  city 
for  the  very  purpose  he  mentioned,  and  that  we  have  eighty  regular  at- 
tendants, only  eight  of  whom  belong  to  our  Church.  And  for  this  we 
shall  call  upon  him  for  his  benediction." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  know  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
true,  and  that  every  man  and  woman  who  lives  it  will  be  happy.  I  know, 
too,  that  there  is  happiness  in  living  its  principles,  that  the  wages  of  sin  is 
death,  and  that  all  who  sin  will  be  miserable  and  unhappy ;  so  I  pray  the 
Lord  to  give  us  strength  in  the  Western  States  Mission  to  be  true  to  the 
faith  of  our  fathers,  that  we  may  be  happy,  for  that  is  the  purpose  of  our 
creation,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  CARL  F.  EYRING 

President  of  the  Nezv  England  Mission 

This  is  precious  time.  I  trust  that  I  may  bear  my  testimony  that 
you  may  know  that  I  believe  in  this  Church  and  that  I  appreciate  the 
heritage  which  I  have  received. 

I  have  enjoyed  the  music  of  this  Conference.  In  the  mission  field 
we  are  delighted  with  the  music  which  comes  from  this  Square.  The 
broadcasts  from  Temple  Square  help  us  in  our  missionary  work. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  be  at  another  General  Conference.  We  of  the 
missions,  just  as  you  of  the  wards  and  stakes,  depend  upon  the  inspirar 
tion  of  General  Conference  to  motivate  us  to  greater  diligence  as  the 
disciples  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  As  we  worship  together,  we  more 
fully  sense  the  power  we  are,  and  the  added  power  that  we  might  be, 
as  defenders  of  the  way  of  life  preached  and  exemplified  by  the  Master. 
In  the  mission  field,  probably  more  than  at  home,  we  keep  asking  our- 
selves the  question,  "What  unique  message  do  we  have  for  the  world  ?" 
This  question  becomes  the  more  significant  because  so  many  well-in- 
formed and  intelligent  persons  are  free  with  the  conclusion :  All  churches 
are  good,  select  the  one  that  suits  your  taste.  Apparently  the  selection 
of  churches  takes  too  much  of  the  same  attitude  to  be  found  in  the  selec- 
tion of  an  automobile.  Thus  if  we  are  to  convert,  we  must  not  only  pre- 
sent an  acceptable  religion,  but  we  must  develop  first  a  conviction  that 
it  does  matter  which  church  is  selected. 

What  is  our  unique  message  to  the  world?  First  of  all,  we  bear 
testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ-  In  no  uncertain  terms  we  declare 


48  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday.  April  6  First  Day 

that  the  teachings  of  Jesus  will  save  the  world  from  slipping  downward 
under  the  grip  of  materialistic  and  pagan  philosophy.  We  testify  that 
the  way  of  life  outlined  by  Jesus  will  preserve  peace,  and  will  eliminate 
poverty  and  suffering.  We  reaffirm  that  the  attitude  of  "love  thy  neigh- 
bor as  thyself,"  together  with  a  practical  application  of  this  principle, 
will  bring  us  out  of  our  social  and  economic  chaos.  What  the  world 
needs  is  not  more  assent,  or  even  belief  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  but  a 
faith  in  him,  a  faith  that  will  cause  humanity  to  find  the  answers  to  its 
problems  in  the  basic  principles  he  taught  and  not  in  the  teachings  of 
self-appointed  teachers  who  set  up  panaceas — short-cuts  that  lead  down 
blind  alleys. 

Further,  we  bear  testimony  that  through  a  miraculous  origin  we 
bring  to  the  world  a  Gospel  restoration  which  is  simply  an  additional 
testimony  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ  and  that  God  really  does  care  to  have 
his  children  follow  the  way  of  life  of  his  Son. 

The  Christian  world  has  accepted  the  Bible.  Through  this  scripture 
Christians  generally  gain  their  testimony  of  Jesus,  but  through  modern 
divine  aid  we  extend  to  the  world  added  testimony  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  In  the  preface  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read,  "and  also  to 
the  convincing  of  the  Jew  and  Gentile  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  eternal 
God,  manifesting  himself  to  all  nations."  In  brief,  we  notify  the  world 
that  a  people  on  this  continent  had  unique  religious  experiences,  similar 
to  those  received  among  the  Hebrew  prophets,  and  that  the  ancient 
American  prophets  testify  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  But  we  do  more 
than  present  to  the  world  this  ancient  scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
We  present  the  teachings  of  modern  prophets ;  we  present  the  vivid  and 
convincing  testimony  given  to  us  this  morning  by  our  beloved  President, 
as  he  quoted  from  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  (Sec.  76:22-24).  We 
need  the  current  testimonies  of  our  leaders  who  are  our  contemporary 
prophets. 

Our  greatest  message  to  the  world,  then,  is  the  declaration  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ.  We  wish  for  all  men  that  they  might  have  faith  in 
Jesus  Christ.  We  claim  that  only  through  him  and  his  teachings  may 
the' inhabitants  of  the  earth  be  saved  from  chaos.  We  further  testify 
that  through  divine  appointment  and  selection  we  have  been  charged  to 
bear  this  testimony  to  the  world  and  to  live  the  Christian  life  so  com- 
pletely that  we  shall  truly  be  a  light  set  upon  a  hill.  This  call  of  the 
Priesthood  is  truly  a  call  to  greater  service,  a  call  to  the  colors  of  im- 
proved and  superior  life.  This  is  the  type  of  testimony  that  we  strive 
to  bear  to  the  world. 

I  am  very  happy  to  report  that  your  sons  and  daughters  are  main- 
taining and  bearing  this  testimony.  We  are  grateful  to  you,  the  fathers 
and  mothers  of  these  sons  and  daughters,  for  the  support  which  you  are 
giving  the  New  England  Mission.  I  can  report  progress,  a  fine  condi- 
tion among  our  branches,  greater  interest  in  Mormonism,  and  a  splendid 
development  among  your  sons  and  daughters. 

God  bless  the  leaders  of  this  Church.  We  are  back  of  them  with 
our  loyalty.  We  declare  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord,  and  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ.  Amen, 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 


49 


ELDER  DAVID  A.  SMITH 

President  of  the  Canadian  Mission 

One  hundred  and  three  years  ago  a  missionary  representing  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  found  in  the  city  of  To- 
ronto, Ontario  Province,  Canada,  and  converted  and  baptized  a  young 
lady.  Soon  after,  she  moved  to  the  United  States  and  married  a  man 
who  had  lost  his  wife.  She  became  the  mother  of  children  the  former 
wife  had  left.  Later  two  were  born  to  her.  She  saw  and  endured  the 
trials  and  sufferings  through  the  persecutions  of  Missouri  and  Illinois, 
where  her  husband  was  murdered  by  a  mob.  She  was  left  alone  to 
provide  for  and  look  after  six  young  children.  She  made  her  way  across 
the  plains  to  the  valleys  of  the  mountains,  not  complaining,  constantly 
teaching  these  children  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  had  come  to  her  from 
their  father  and  his  associates.  She  understood  and  believed  the  Gospel 
message,  not  doubting. 

I  became  acquainted  with  her  only  through  the  story  and  history 
of  her  life  as  it  has  come  to  me  through  her  children.  At  first  I  saw  in 
her  life,  suffering,  hardships  and  trials,  but  recently  I  have  found  more 
than  that.  Possibly  it  is  because  the  Gospel  came  to  her  in  the  city  where 
I  now  make  my  home,  but  more  assuredly  because  of  the  fact  that  this 
woman  is  my  grandmother. 

Today  her  trials  and  the  hardships  she  endured  are  dwarfed  by 
her  example  of  faith  and  integrity.  I  now  see  more  clearly  a  spirit 
which  overcame  hardships  and  trials,  and  built  up  a  resistance  which 
enabled  her  to  carry  on  and  perform  the  labors  which  seemed  necessary, 
not  alone  for  her  welfare  and  exaltation,  but  also  to  give  encouragement 
and  blessings  to  her  offspring.  Through  my  grandmother,  I  have  been 
blessed  and  have  found  encouragement  and  strength,  which  has  materi- 
ally helped  me  in  the  work  I  have  been  called  to  do. 

I  rejoice  in  the  opportunity  I  have  of  laboring  with  your  sons  and 
your  daughters,  some  of  whom  come  to  us  full  of  the  spirit  which  comes 
from  our  heavenly  Father,  eager  to  go  to  work  and  prepare  to  engage 
in  it.  Some  are  fearful  because  they  have  been  poorly  trained.  We 
must  nurse  them,  and  encourage  them.  They  see  that  they  are  not 
prepared  for  this  work  and  become  discouraged.  But  as  they  apply 
themselves  to  study,  and  through  prayer  a  new  spirit  comes  to  them, 
we  find  them  gaining  confidence  in  themselves  as  their  knowledge 
increases,  and  the  beauties  of  the  Gospel  message  unfold  to  their  un- 
derstanding. 

If  you  could  have  seen  these  young  men  and  women  during  this 
winter,  the  severest  winter  with  two  exceptions  since  1870,  it  would 
have  made  your  hearts  rejoice.  We  have  removed  from  the  walks  in 
front  of  the  Mission  Home  a  little  more  than  six  feet  of  snow,  and  for 
months  we  have  faced  zero  weather  nearly  every  morning.  Blizzards 
and  snowstorms  have  been  frequent,  and  yet  our  reports  are  almost  equal 
to  our  summer  reports,   Some  of  the  missionaries  have  been  ill  and  have 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

gone  to  bed  for  a  few  days,  but  there  has  been  no  severe  sickness.  The 
Lord  is  good  to  us  and  we  rejoice  in  the  opportunities  afforded  us  to 
serve  in  his  great  cause. 

May  I  suggest  again,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  as  I  have  done  for 
years  past  in  the  general  conferences  and  in  the  stakes,  that  you  take 
missionary  work  seriously.  You  do  a  grave  injustice  to  your  son  or  your 
daughter  when  you  send  them  into  the  mission  field  to  labor  as  mission- 
aries without  that  preparation  which  provides  for  them  a  foundation 
upon  which  they  may  build  and  go  on  with  a  feeling  of  security.  I  hope, 
as  I  have  hoped  for  most  of  my  life,  that  the  time  will  come  when  we 
can  develop  here  at  home,  the  spirit  which  your  boys  and  your  girls 
develop  when  they  are  face  to  face  with  the  problem  of  teaching  the 
Gospel,  which  is  given  to  us  in  its  fulness  in  this  the  last  dispensation 
— the  dispensation  of  the  fulness  of  times. 

During  the  last  year  the  First  Presidency  were  good  enough  to 
provide  us  with  a  chapel  in  Toronto.  This  year  the  few  times  I  have 
been  permitted  to  meet  in  that  chapel  on  the  Sabbath  day— several  times 
in  a  blizzard — I  have  seen  men,  women  and  children  who  have  walked 
miles  in  zero  weather  and  in  a  snow  storm  to  go  to  Church,  and  the 
spiritual  food  they  receive  seems  to  justify  and  reward  them.  In  the 
mission  field  we  find  faith  which  would  do  credit  to  any  ward  or  stake. 
We  say  with  the  prophet  of  old :  "Behold,  my  soul  abhorreth  sin,  and 
my  heart  delighteth  in  righteousness;  and  I  will  praise  the  holy  name 
of  God." 

May  he  grant  unto  us  that  we  shall  not  fail,  but  continue  on  under 
the  influence  of  his  Spirit  and  enjoy  the  blessings  which  come  to  those 
who  serve  him  in  faith,  with  a  full  desire  to  accomplish  that  which  is 
required  at  our  hands.  With  this  feeling  and  this  hope  we  are  preaching 
the  word  of  the  Lord  as  it  is  found  in  the  Holy  Bible  and  the  Book  of 
Mormon  and  in  the  revealed  word  of  the  Lord  given  through  modern 
prophets,  the  prophets  of  the  latter  days,  and  we  are  trying  to  follow 
these  teachings  and  impart  them  to  the  people,  many  of  whom  find  that 
they  have  lived  in  darkness  and  they  rejoice  when  they  see  and  com- 
prehend the  light. 

May  the  Lord  bless  us.  Remember  us  in  your  prayers.  I  am  hoping 
the  time  will  come  when  you  will  all  have  meeting  houses  built  and  paid 
for,  for  then  perhaps,  more  money  can  go  into  the  mission  field  to  help 
build  houses  for  those  who  cannot  build  for  themselves  and  are  without 
suitable  homes  where  they  may  serve  the  Lord  in  general  assemblies 
I  hope  to  see  this  time  come.  May  God  help  us  to  be  worthy  of  such 
blessings,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  IR. 


51 


ELDER  WILLIAM  T.  TEW,  JR. 

President  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission 

I  am  very  happy,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  here  this  afternoon, 
and  to  meet  with  you  in  General  Conference  on  this  memorable  occasion. 
I  read  not  long  ago  from  the  pen  of  one  of  our  great  American  religious 
preachers  that  there  "is  no  such  thing  upon  the  earth  today  as  the  true 
Church  of  Christ.  I  rejoice  that  a  hundred  and  nine  years  ago  in  the 
little  town  of  Fayette,  Seneca  County,  New  York,  at  the  home  of  Peter 
Whitmer,  Sr.,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  as  the  Lord's  instrument 
upon  this  earth  in  this  dispensation,  organized  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  and,  according  to  the  Lord's  word  in  the 
preface  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  it  is  the  only  true  and  living 
church  upon  the  face  of  the  whole  earth,  with  which  the  Lord  is  well 
pleased,  speaking  of  the  Church  collectively  and  not  individually. 

I  rejoice  in  my  membership  in  this  great  organization.  I  rejoice 
in  my  privilege  of  being  in  the  mission  field  with  my  family,  presiding 
over  the  East  Central  States  Mission.  I  am  happy  to  report  to  you  parents 
who  are  here  this  afternoon,  and  to  you  parents  who  are  perhaps  listening 
in  on  this  occasion,  that  during  the  past  three  months  I  have  visited 
every  district  and  almost  every  branch  of  the  East  Central  States  Mission. 
I  have  contacted  your  boys  and  your  girls  in  their  conference  assemblies, 
and  in  their  mission  field  experiences,  and  in  the  missionary  testimony 
and  report  meetings.  I  rejoice  in  the  growth  and  the  development,  and 
the  spirit  that  accompanies  those  young  men  and  young  women  as  they 
bear  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the  Gospel. 

During  the  last  month,  just  previous  to  coming  to  this  conference, 
I  spent  my  time  visiting  five  of  our  districts.  Forty-one  conference 
sessions  were  held ;  two  outstanding  M.  I.  A.  banquets  were  put  on,  and 
I  believe  that  I  can  report  safely  and  conscientiously  that  Mutual  Im- 
provement work  in  the  mission  field  is  the  key  position  that  captures  the 
interest,  the  attention,  and  the  devotion  of  our  young  people,  and  makes 
of  them  real,  genuine  Latter-day  Saints. 

In  the  East  Central  States  Mission  we  have  almost  14,000  members 
on  our  records.  I  regret  to  say,  however,  that  we  do  not  know  exactly 
where  a. great  many  of  these  members  are;  they  have  moved  from  place 
to  place  without  leaving  their  new  addresses. 

We  also  have  in  the  mission  field  106  Elders  and  lady  missionaries 
today.  We  are  bringing  back,  or  have  brought  back  during  the  month 
of  March,  14  Elders  and  lady  missionaries  who  have  filled  missions  in 
the  East  Central  States. 

We  find  in  the  East  Central  States  a  very  great  need  of  teaching 
the  people  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  So  many  of  them  have  been 
converted  through  emotional  appeal,  which  seems  to  be  the  method  of 
procedure  in  a  great  many  different  denominations  in  the  world.  I  read 
just  a  few  days  ago  that  one  of  our  great  American  preachers  defines 
religion  as  a  great  psychological  experience.   To  me  that  is  far  from 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Thursday,  April  6  First  Day 

the  truth.  Religion  to  me  is  the  actual  practising  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  our  daily  lives.  It  is  a  life  process,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
and  it  is  my  hope  and  prayer  that  through  our  efforts  in  the  mission 
field  we  shall  be  able  to  encourage  our  missionaries  along  this  line  of 
activity,  because  we  know  that  through  their  living  the  Gospel  the  people 
of  the  world  have  become  friendly  unto  us. 

Very  seldom  do  we  hear  anything  derogatory  concerning  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  as  it  is  preached  and  lived  by  the  Latter-day  Saints.  We 
are  always  met  with  a  greeting  that  is  fair  and  congenial,  and  really 
and  truly  tolerant  by  those  with  whom  we  associate. 

I  should  like  to  leave  with  you  people  one  thought  in  closing.  It 
comes  from  the  great  prophet  Amos,  of  Old  Testament  days,  that 
shepherd  prophet  who  lived  at  the  little  town  of  Tekoa,  near  the  Dead 
Sea.  The  prophets  were  the  Lord's  great  trail  builders,  as  they  are 
today.  They  had  the  power  and  influence  among  the  people  to  unify 
them,  and  set  in  order  the  Church  of  God.  Amos  was  sent  to  the  north- 
ern kingdom  of  Israel,  in  the  days  of  wickedness,  in  the  days  of  apostasy, 
in  the  days  of  indifference,  in  the  days  of  Jeroboam  II  the  king  of  Israel. 

One  of  the  things  he  told  those  people  is  this : 

Thus  he  showed  me:  and,  behold,  the  Lord  stood  upon  a  wall  made 
by  a  plumbline,  with  a  plumbline  in  his  hand. 

And  the  Lord  said  unto  me,  Amos,  what  seeth  thou?  And  I  said,  A 
plumbline.  Then  said  the  Lord,  Behold,  I  will  set  a  plumbline  in  the  midst 
of  my  people  Israel :    I  will  not  again  pass  by  them  any  more. 

That  plumbline,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  me  is  the  Gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  It  is  this  living  Church,  which  is  the  embodiment  of  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  I  believe  that  we  should 
remember  that  the  eternal  verities,  those  eternal  laws  of  God  must  be 
lived  up  to  if  we  ever  expect  to  reap  the  blessing  and  the  benefit  that  we 
should  derive  therefrom  as  members  of  the  Church. 

May  I  encourage  you  to  give  us  your  faith  and  your  prayers,  and 
above  all  other  things  may  we  have  your  good  works  in  living  the  Gospel 
here  in  the  stakes  and  wards  of  Zion,  that  the  reflection  of  these  good 
works  here  at  home  may  be  a  beacon  light  to  us  in  the  mission  field  in 
allaying  prejudice,  in  bringing  about  a  tolerant  spirit  among  those  with 
whom  we  labor. 

We  assure  you  that  with  your  faith  and  prayers  and  with  our  faith 
and  prayers  and  efforts,  and  with  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  we  shall 
succeed,  and  I  may  say,  too,  that,  in  the  words  of  John  Bright,  the  great 
English  statesman,  "If  we  cannot  succeed  as  fast  as  we  think  we  should 
succeed,  we  know  that  in  the  end  our  enemies  cannot  succeed  at  all." 

The  Lord  bless  us,  that  we  may  succeed,  and  that  we  may  succeed 
admirably,  and  as  the  Lord  desires  we  should  succeed  in  promulgating 
the  Gospel  to  the  world,  is  my  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  ELI  AS  S.  WOODRUFF 


53 


ELDER  ELIAS  S.  WOODRUFF 

President  of  the  Central  States  Mission 

It  is  a  rare  privilege  that  I  now  enjoy.  I  am  grateful  for  my 
testimony  that  the  Gospel  is  true,  for  the  associations  that  are  mine,  both 
in  the  mission  and  at  home,  and  for  the  blessings  that  are  resting  upon 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  I  think  the  Latter-day  Saint  people  enjoy  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  so  regularly  that  we  come  to  accept  them  as  a 
matter  of  course. 

I  am  quite  sure  we  do  not  appreciate  fully  the  privileges  and 
blessings  that  are  ours  at  the  present  time,  nor  the  value  of  the  heritage 
that  has  come  to  us  from  our  parents. 

Shoemaking  in  America  largely  began  in  the  New  England  states ; 
there  were  few  good  shoemakers  elsewhere.  When  Missouri  and  the 
central  west  began  to  make  shoes  along  the  banks  of  the  Mississippi 
and  Missouri  rivers,  they  imported  their  skilled  workmen  from  the 
New  England  section  of  the  country.  A  number  of  generations  have 
passed  since  shoes  began  to  be  made  at  these  points,  and  there  has 
now  grown  up  in  that  vicinity  a  generation  of  natural-born  shoemakers. 
The  boys  and  girls,  as  soon  as  they  are  able  to  be  employed,  go  into  the 
shoe  factories  and  secure"  employment.  There  seems  to  be  a  skill  that 
is  inherited  from  their  fathers  and  perhaps  their  mothers — for  women 
worked  in  the  factories.  Manufacturers  no  longer  have  to  send  away 
for  their  skilled  labor. 

I  have  used  this  thought  in  connection  with  the  Church.  In  the 
promotion  of  the  magazines  of  the  Church  I  have  frequently  said  that 
there  are  no  people  in  the  world  who  can  write  such  as  our  people  can 
on  religious  subjects,  or  social  topics,  and  that  there  are  no  magazines 
that  equal  the  magazines  of  the  Church. 

The  very  same  thing  is  true  with  reference  to  the  leadership  of  the 
Church.  The  Lord  has  said  that  we  are  to  be  like  a  little  leaven  that 
leaveneth  the  whole  lump.  I  have  observed  that  sometimes  into  a  com- 
munity comes  one  man  and  his  family  who  have  this  quality,  and  as  a 
result  of  their  coming,  an  organization  is  built  around  one  or  two  families. 
Without  them  the  organization  could  not  succeed.  If  one  of  them 
should  move  away  we  would  have  difficulty  in  maintaining  the  little  group. 

What  shall  we  say  then,  with  reference  to  the  value  of  the  teachings 
that  come  to  us,  and  which  we  accept  almost  unconsciously,  in  the 
Sunday  Schools  and  other  organizations  of  the  Church  at  home? 
Young  men  and  women  come  into  the  mission  field  thinking  that  they 
are  almost  wholly  unprepared.  They  do  not  realize  the  strength  that  is 
naturally  within  them,  nor  the  rapidity  with  which  they  will  obtain 
skill  and  arrive  at  a  stage  where  they  are  able  to  leaven  the  whole  lump 
and  stir  it  up  wherever  they  go.  It  soon  becomes  apparent  that  there 
is  a  leadership  among  them  that  is  unusual. 

•  There  is  another  feature  of  our  people  that  astonishes  the  world, 
and  that  is  the  cleanness  of  the  lives  of  the  missionaries.  I  had  this 
brought  forcibly  to  my  attention  through  the  sanitarium  at  Independence, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Missouri.  We  have  a  custom  of  bringing  our  "wounded"  missionaries 
into  that  place.  The  doctor  who  attends  them  has  marveled  at  the  fine, 
clean  bodies  of  the  boys  that  have  come  to  the  hospital  for  operations, 
and  the  wonderful  spirit  of  the  girls  that  have  gone  there.  The  nurses 
at  that  sanitarium  have  mentioned  it  to  the  doctor,  and  he  said  to  me 
one  day :  "Brother  Woodruff,  I  know  you  will  be  very  glad  to  hear  this 
compliment  to  your  people.  Our  nurses  tell  us  that  there  are  no  people 
like  yours  that  come  within  the  walls  of  this  institution,  that  there  are 
none  who  respond  so  quickly  to  the  healing  care  of  medicine  and  good 
treatment,  none  who  are  so  sweet-dispositioned  to  wait  upon,  and  who 
leave  behind  them  such  a  lovely  and  beautiful  influence." 

This  is  the  influence  that  comes  from  clean  lives  and  from  proper 
training  at  home.  I  am  led  to  appreciate  more  and  more  the  value  of 
what  the  Church  is  doing. 

I  know  we  are  conscious  of  our  failings ;  I  know  we  know  that 
we  have  our  limitations,  but  I  say  this  if  it  is  of  any  value,  by  way 
of  encouragement  to  those  who  labor  with  the  youth  of  Zion  at  home. 
People  say  to  us :  "Where  in  the  world  do  you  find  such  fine  young  men 
and  such  fine  young  women,  so  many  of  them  ?" 

I  always  reply,  "Why,  the  woods  are  full  of  them  out  west.  All 
we  have  to  do  is  reach  out  and  take  what  we  can  use,  and  they  are  all 
good." 

Well,  it  is  a  marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,  and  the  Lord  is  being 
magnified,  and  our  testimonies  are  growing.  The  Church  is  growing  in 
strength  and  power,  and  I  pray  that  it  may  continue  to  do  so,  and  that 
we  may  all  partake  of  its  blessings.  I  ask  it  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


I  should  like  to  repeat  the  request  and  the  admonition  made  by 
President  Grant  this  morning,  that  we  exercise  the  greatest  care  in  driving 
our  automobiles.  As  he  observed,  there  is  a  great  tendency  among 
us  to  feel  that  we  must  get  to  a  certain  place  at  a  certain  time.  It  is  said 
that  recently  a  Chinese,  a  man  of  great  distinction,  was  to  be  taken 
uptown  in  New  York  by  one  of  the  Wall  Street  men  of  influence,  and 
the  Wall  Street  man  described  in  detail  how  he  would  take  the  local  to 
a  certain  station,  that  there  he  would  take  an  express  to  another  station, 
and  that  there  he  would  get  off  and  take  another  local  and  that  by  so 
doing,  instead  of  taking  a  local  all  the  way  through,  they  would  save 
a  minute  and  a  half. 

The  Oriental  said :  "What  will  you  do  with  the  minute  and  a  half 
when  you  have  saved  it  ?" 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


PRESIDENT  GRANT  ABSENT  BECAUSE  OF  ILLNESS 


I  am  sure  that  I  can  speak  for  all  of  you  when  I  say  to  President 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


55 


Grant,  who  is  listening  in,  that  we  have  missed  him,  and  that  we  join  in 
prayers  that  he  may  be  early  restored  to  health  and  strength. 

I  should  like  to  thank,  on  behalf  of  the  First  Presidency,  of  this 
audience  and  of  all  who  have  listened  in,  the  Singing  Mothers  for  their 
excellent  singing. 


An  anthem,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  (Cecil  Gates)  was  sung  by  the 
Singing  Mothers. 

Elder  David  R.  Langlois,  President  of  the  Burley  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Friday,  April  7,  10  a.  m. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  Friday  morning,  April  7,  at  10  a.  m. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  this  session. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Nebo  Stake  Choir, 
Elder  J.  D.  Christensen,  Director. 

The  hymn,  "How  Firm  a  Foundation,"  was  sung  by  the  Choir  and 
the  congregation,  after  which  Elder  J.  Robert  Price,  President  of  the 
Phoenix  Stake,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

An  anthem,  "He  Is  Risen,"  (Simper)  was  sung  by  the  Nebo  Stake 
Choir,  (Melba  Powell,  soloist). 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  feel  to  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  for  again  having  the  privilege 
of  attending  a  great  Conference  of  this  people.  I  know  I  utter  the  thoughts 
of  everyone  who  listened  to  and  attended  the  services  yesterday,  when  I 
say  that  I  have  attended  no  Conference  of  the  Church  during  all  my  ser- 
vice as  an  Apostle,  or  even  before,  when  I  have  not  felt  in  my  heart  that 
the  thanks  and  the  counsel  and  the  wisdom  expressed  must  have  ascended 
to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Among  the  great  things  that  every  member  of  the  Church  should  be 
not  only  interested  in,  but  thankful  for,  is  the  privilege  to  serve  God. 
I  am  thankful  that  I  have  been  privileged  to  serve  my  God.  I  am  grate- 
ful for  the  health  and  the  strength  and  the  vigor  that  enable  me  to  be  of 
service  to  my  family,  and  with  all  my  heart  I  am  thankful  for  my  service 
to  my  Church.  Weak  or  small  as  that  service  may  be  I  have  asked  my 
Heavenly  Father  to  assist  me  in  that  service  in  every  particular. 

A  DAY  OF  EXTRAVAGANCE 

We  are  living  in  a  day  of  extravagance  and  I  have  wondered  of  late 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

where  it  is  going  to  end.  The  Church  has  set  the  example  to  every  mem- 
ber of  it  and  to  the  glorious  nation  that  we  love,  to  be  out  of  debt.  I  re- 
member when  our  nation,  at  the  close  of  the  World  War,  found  itself  in 
debt  to  the  amount  of  twenty-six  billions  of  dollars.  For  ten  years  as 
Chairman  of  the  Finance  Committee,  and  a  ranking  member  of  the  Ap- 
propriations Committee,  I  did  everything  in  my  power  to  reduce  that 
obligation  by  necessary  legislation.  It  was  reduced  to  sixteen  billion 
dollars  and  now  it  is  up  to  forty  billion  dollars. 

I  know  it  is  easy  to  say  "billions,"  and  we  have  become  used  to  it  in 
America  and  perhaps  in  the  world,  but  it  may  be  of  interest  to  some,  at 
least,  to  give  a  description  of  what  forty  billion  dollars  really  is  so  that  all 
can  understand  it.  I  do  it  in  this  way :  Supposing  that  the  minute  the 
Savior  was  born  some  person  had  decided  to  deposit  in  a  place  selected 
by  him  forty  dollars  and  he  continued  that  plan,  carrying  it  out  faithfully 
every  minute  to  the  present  time,  at  the  end,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
there  would  be  forty  billions  of  dollars  there. 

So  you  see  what  responsibilities  rest  upon  those  who  direct  the  fin- 
ancial affairs  of  our  Government.  I  want  every  Latter-day  Saint,  no 
matter  where  he  is,  to  support  in  every  way  every  recommendation  made, 
not  only  by  this  administration  but  by  the  administrations  to  follow  to 
reduce  these  obligations,  for  they  will  have  to  do  everything  in  their 
power  to  accomplish  this. 

I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father  that  the  Church  is  out  of  debt.  I  am 
told  by  President  Grant  that  it  is  ten  years  since  the  Church  has  been  in 
debt.  That  is  splendid. 

THE  FAITH  OF  A  PRESIDENT 

Among  the  homes  that  I  visited  during  my  service  in  the  Senate  of  the 
United  States  was  the  home  of  President  Coolidge,  where  I  was  invited 
several  times.  I  never  ate  a  mouthful  of  food  at  his  home  without  a 
blessing  upon  it.  Prayer  was  the  practice  of  President  Coolidge.  The 
last  time  I  visited  him  was  shortly  before  his  death.  I  sat  by  his  bedside. 
We  talked  over  conditions  existing  in  our  country,  and  when  I  was  about 
to  leave,  the  President  said  to  me :  "Senator,  there  is  some  plan  in  your 
Church,  isn't  there,  where  men  administer  to  the  sick  and  pray  for  them  ?" 
I  said,  "Yes,  Mr.  President.  We  call  that  administering  to  the  sick." 
He  said,  "Can  anyone  in  the  Church  administer  to  anyone  outside  of  the 
Church  ?"  I  told  him  "Yes."  He  said,  "Reed,  I  wish  you  would  admin- 
ister to  me."  I  did  so,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 
I  never  felt  happier  in  my  life  than  when  I  laid  my  hands  upon  him  and 
asked  God  to  bless  him.  He  was  a  wonderful  man,  as  nearly  all  of  the 
American  people  knew  him  to  be. 

I  believe,  with  all  my  soul,  in  the  administration  of  the  sick.  I  have 
seen  the  results  of  it  hundreds  and  hundreds  of  times  and  it  will  never 
cease  being  a  part  of  our  faith. 

May  God's  blessings  ever  be  with  the  Presidency  of  this  Church  and 
the  Authorities  of  the  Church.  No  matter  what  position  they  may  hold 
may  the  Father  give  them  a  desire  in  their  hearts  to  fill  the  position  with 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


57 


honor,  with  integrity  and  love.  I  am  quite  sure  there  is  no  people,  other 
than  the  people  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  that  has  such  faith  in  prayer 
and  exercise  it  more  generally  than  do  we.  Never  forget  God's  blessings. 

THE  DIVORCE  EVIL 

One  thing  more  that  I  desire  to  speak  of  is  divorce.  I  haven't  the 
figures  now.  I  don't  know  how  we  stand  along  this  line,  compared  with 
other  parts  of  our  country  or  the  world,  but  I  do  know  that  the  last  in- 
vestigation made  by  me  revealed  the  fact  that  there  were  fewer  divorces 
per  capita  among  the  Mormon  people  than  other  group  of  people  in  the 
world.  South  Carolina  has  no  divorce  law  and  I  understand  Nevada  has 
about  fifty-seven  kinds  or  fifty-seven  reasons  for  a  divorce.  Brethren 
and  sisters,  I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  God  may  be  in  your  homes,  and  that 
marriage  of  a  man  and  a  woman  may  be  such  that  they  can  work  together 
in  the  service  of  our  Heavenly  Father  and  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord 
may  direct  their  thoughts  and  their  actions,  that  people  seeing  their  deeds 
may  judge  that  there  is  something  binding  upon  them  and  their  conscience, 
quite  different  from  those  of  the  world. 

Our  Heavenly  Father,  bless  the  Authorities  of  thy  Church  and  par- 
ticularly give  strength  and  health  to  our  President.  God  be  with  us  and 
bless  us  all,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  realize  keenly,  brethren  and  sisters,  the  responsibility  resting  upon 
me  in  being  asked  to  speak,  being  expected  to  lead  this  vast  congregation 
in  intelligent  and  profitable  thought.  I  think  it  a  wonderful  accom- 
plishment for  a  man  to  be  able  to  stand  before  a  congregation  of  this 
size  and  think  consecutively  and  intelligently,  and  to  give  intelligent 
expression  to  those  thoughts.   It  makes  me  to  fear  and  tremble. 

I  realize  in  this  position,  as  in  all  others,  my  dependence  upon  the 
Lord.  If  he  were  not  to  assist  me  by  his  Holy  Spirit,  my  mind  would 
close  up  like  a  clam.  I  wouldn't  know  where  to  begin,  how  to  continue, 
or  to  end.  But  with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  the  experiences  I  have  had 
in  the  past,  trusting  in  him  and  having  his  blessing  to  attend  me,  I 
have  some  hope,  with  the  prayers  and  faith  of  the  people,  that  I  may 
be  able  to  overcome  my  weakness  and  present  something  that  will  be 
worth  our  consideration. 

I  have  in  mind  that  what  I  shall  say  will  not  only  be  heard  by  those 
within  this  building,  a  congregation  made  up  of  members  and  non- 
members  of  the  Church,  but  possibly  by  many  people  on  the  outside 
who  are  listening  in  over  the  radio,  and  I  would  like  to  say  something 
that  would  be  helpful  to  those  who  are  not  members  of  the  Church,  as 
well  as  to  members  of  the  Church,  if  they  will  accept  of  what  I  have  to 
say,  the  advice  that  I  may  be  led  to  give. 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

I  want  to  say  this,  that  I  am  grateful  that  my  feelings  are  in  com- 
plete harmony  with  what  has  gone  before  in  this  conference.  I  think 
we  have  had  a  splendid  conference.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has  been 
with  us,  and  we  have  really  been  fed  the  bread  of  life.  I  was  deeply 
interested  in  the  statistics  which  were  read  to  us  yesterday  morning, 
which  show  the  accomplishments  of  the  Church,  and  the  faithfulness 
of  the  members  thereof.  I  feel  in  my  heart  to  bless  the  Latter-day 
Saints  for  their  faithfulness  and  their  worthiness. 


PLANS  MADE  IN  COUNCILS  OF  HEAVEN 

And  now  I  have  a  thought  pertaining  to  the  Gospel,  that  I  would 
like  to  talk  over  with  you  and  consider  it  together.  We  read  in  the 
Book  of  Moses,  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price,  an  account  of  a  visitation 
of  the  Lord  to  his  servant,  the  prophet  Moses,  where  the  Lord  talked 
with  Moses  face  to  face,  and  in  conversation  told  Moses  that  it  was  his 
work  and  his  glory  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and  the  eternal 
life  of  man. 

The  provisions  for  the  accomplishment  of  these  purposes  were 
made  in  the  councils  of  heaven  before  the  world  was.  We  were  all 
present.  We  saw  the  Savior  chosen  and  appointed,  and  the  plan  of 
salvation  made,  and  we  sanctioned  it.  Not  all  of  our  Father's  spirit 
children  sanctioned  it,  for  we  are  told  that  one  Lucifer,  who  stood  high 
among  the  sons  of  God,  took  exception  to  the  plan.  He  would  substitute 
his  will  and  his  way  of  salvation  for  that  of  the  Eternal  Father,  which 
would  have  deprived  us  of  agency  in  this  life,  which  we  exercised  in 
the  spirit  world,  and  other  important  principles  were  involved.  Because 
he  and  those  who  were  associated  with  him,  one-third  of  heaven's  hosts, 
could  not  have  their  own  way,  they  rebelled  and  a  war  ensued,  as  we 
read  in  the  scriptures,  and  he  and  his  followers  were  cast  out  and  down, 
and  became  the  sons  of .  perdition.  They  were  the  enemies  of  God 
then,  and  the  enemies  of  man,  and  they  have  been  since,  and  they  have 
wrought  havoc  among  the  children  of  men  from  that  day  to  this. 

It  is  said  that  experience  is  a  dear  school,  but  that  fools  will  learn 
in  no  other.  I  shall  not  undertake  to  say  how  much  of  truth  there  is 
in  that  saying,  but  it  does  have  the  effect  of  calling  our  attention  to  the 
fact  that  we  should,  as  intelligent,  wise  men  and  women,  profit  by  the 
experiences  of  others.  And  so  we  should  profit  by  the  experience  of 
Lucifer  and  those  who  went  away  with  him  in  rebellion,  and  forever 
and  always  try  to  make  our  minds  and  our  wills  conform  to  the  mind 
and  will  of  God,  the  Eternal  Father,  and  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  who 
are  one,  and  who  seek  our  welfare,  our  happiness  and  our  salvation. 

PUNISHMENT  OF  THOSE  NOT  VALIANT 

The  negro  is  an  unfortunate  man.   He  has  been  given  a  black  skin. 
But  that  is  as  nothing  compared  with  that  greater  handicap  that  he  is 
not  permitted  to  receive  the  Priesthood  and  the  ordinances  of  the  temple, 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


59 


necessary  to  prepare  men  and  women  to  enter  into  and  enjoy  a  fulness 
of  glory  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

What  is  the  reason  for  this  condition,  we  ask,  and  I  find  it  to  my 
satisfaction  to  think  that  as  spirit  children  of  our  Eternal  Father  they 
were  not  valiant  in  the  fight.  We  are  told  that  Michael  and  his  angels 
fought,  and  we  understand  that  we  stood  with  Christ  our  Lord,  on  the 
platform,  "Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory  be  thine  forever."  I 
cannot  conceive  our  Father  consigning  his  children  to  a  condition  such 
as  that  of  the  negro  race,  if  they  had  been  valiant  in  the  spirit  world  in 
that  war  in  heaven.  Neither  could  they  have  been  a  part  of  those  who 
rebelled  and  were  cast  down,  for  the  latter  had  not  the  privilege  of 
tabernacling  in  the  flesh.  Somewhere  along  the  line  were  these  spirits, 
indifferent  perhaps,  and  possibly  neutral  in  the  war.  We  have  no 
definite  knowledge  concerning  this.  But  I  learn  this  lesson  from  it, 
brethren  and  sisters,  and  I  believe  we  all  should,  that  it  does  not  pay  in 
religious  matters,  matters  that  pertain  to  our  eternal  salvation,  to  be 
indifferent,  neutral,  or  lukewarm.  The  Lord,  through  one  of  his  servants, 
addressing  the  angel  of  the  church  of  the  Laodiceans,  said : 

I  know  thy  works,  that  thou  art  neither  cold  nor  hot;  I  would  thou 
wert  cold  or  hot. 

So  then  because  thou  art  lukewarm,  and  neither  cold  nor  hot,  I  will 
spue  thee  out  of  my  mouth. 

To  members  of  the  Church  I  would  ask,  are  any  of  us  of  that  class 
today — lukewarm,  indifferent  and  neutral — a  lesson  to  be  learned  from 
the  experiences  of  others  who  have  gone  before.  I  firmly  believe  that 
God  had  something  to  do  with  the  recording  of  these  events,  and  having 
them  preserved  and  handed  down  to  us  from  generation  to  generation, 
that  we  might  read,  and  reading,  profit  thereby.  We  are  under  direct 
command  of  the  Lord  to  search  the  scriptures,  where  these  things  are 
contained.   We  have  been  admonished  in  this  conference  so  to  do. 

CONSEQUENCES  OF  REJECTING  THE  GOSPEL 

We  have  another  example,  that  of  the  antediluvians.  We  are  told 
that  Noah  the  prophet  preached  to  that  people  a  hundred  and  twenty 
years.  They  rejected  the  prophet.  They  rejected  his  message.  They 
gave  themselves  up  to  the  lusts  of  the  flesh,  and  were  immoral  and 
corrupt,  according  to  the  scriptures.  A  just  God,  in  his  mercy,  wiped 
them  off  the  face  of  the  earth  with  a  flood.  You  may  call  that  a  severe 
penalty,  but  that  does  not  tell  the  story,  by  any  means,  of  the  conse- 
quence of  their  rejecting  of  the  Gospel  and  of  their  wickedness.  We 
are  told  that  they  were  shut  up  in  a  spirit  prison  for  over  twenty-three 
hundred  years,  according  to  Bible  chronology.  We  do  not  know  what 
the  nature  of  that  imprisonment  was,  but  the  prophet  Alma  tells  us 
that  they  were  in  darkness  and  having  a  fearful,  awful  looking  forward 
to  the  time  when  the  fiery  indignation  of  the  wrath  of  God  would  be 
poured  out  upon  them.   It  is  something  to  be  dreaded  and  to  be  feared. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


THE  HOPE  OF  REWARD 


That  suggests  in  my  mind  the  teaching  of  the  Savior.  There  are 
two  principal  incentives  for  all  men  to  do  what  is  right,  the  one  the 
hope  of  reward,  the  other  the  fear  of  punishment.  We  have  sung  today, 
"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  saints  of  the  Lord,  is  laid  for  your  faith 
in  his  excellent  word."  And,  "What  more  can  he  say  than  to  you  he 
hath  said,  you  who  unto  Jesus  for  refuge  have  fled?"  The  hope  of 
reward.  He  has  promised  the  male  membership  of  his  Church  who  shall 
receive  the  Priesthood,  that  if  we  will  magnify  that  Priesthood — and 
that  means  live  righteous  lives,  lives  of  service  to  God  and  to  our  fellow 
men — all  that  he  has  shall  be  given  unto  us,  and  the  earth  is  the  Lord's, 
and  the  fulness  thereof. 

There  are  other  blessings  besides  those  pertaining  to  earth  and 
earth  things.  They  are  in  the  hands  of  God  to  give,  and  he  is  glad  to 
give  them  to  his  faithful  servants,  his  faithful  children,  for  he  loves 
us  with  a  perfect  love,  and  our  souls  are  precious  in  his  sight. 


So  the  condition  of  the  antediluvians,  of  those  who  rebelled  in  the 
beginning,  Lucifer  and  his  followers,  and  the  negro  race  that  we  have 
been  speaking  of,  are  object  lessons  from  which  we  should  profit.  Not 
only  did  the  antediluvians  lose  their  lives  in  a  flood — eight  souls  only 
saved — and  suffered  an  imprisonment  for  centuries  in  the  spirit,  of 
whatever  nature  that  might  have  been,  but  we  are  told  in  the  vision 
from  which  President  Grant  quoted  yesterday  morning,  that  the  Lord 
revealed  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Sidney  Rigdon  the  glories  that 
we  read  of  in  the  scriptures  of  the  New  Testament.  The  Apostle  Paul 
speaks  of  the  glory  of  which  the  sun  is  typical,  another  of  which  the 
moon  is  typical,  and  another  of  which  the  stars  of  heaven  are  typical. 

This  was  shown  to  the  Prophet  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  and  they  were 
told  what  class  of  people  should  attain  to  the  celestial  glory,  to  the 
terrestrial  and  to  the  telestial  glory.  And  speaking  of  those  who  should 
attain  to  the  terrestrial  glory,  he  said:  "These  are  they  who  received 
not  the  testimony  of  Jesus  in  the  flesh,  but  afterwards  received  it."  So 
I  conclude,  and  I  think  justly  and  rightly,  that  the  antediluvians  not 
only  lost  their  lives,  because  of  their  wickedness  and  rejection  of  the 
Gospel,  and  were  shut  up  in  prison,  but  they  are  denied  the  opportunity 
of  going  into  the  celestial  kingdom ;  and  even  if  they  accepted  the  Gospel, 
or  the  testimony  of  Jesus,  in  the  spirit,  they  may  go  only  into  the  terres- 
trial kingdom. 

I  am  reminded  of  the  march  of  time.  We  see  over  and  over  again 
that  crime  does  not  pay.  And  I  say  it  does  not  pay  to  reject  the  counsels 
of  God  and  give  ourselves  up  to  wickedness.  There  are  the  cities  of 
the  plains.  The  people,  because  of  their  wickedness  in  rejecting  the 
Gospel — ten  righteous  men  could  not  be  found  in  all  Sodom  and  Go- 
morrah— fire  from  heaven  was  sent  down  to  destroy  them,  and  may 


OBJECT  LESSONS  FROM  THE  PAST 


ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 


61 


we  not  conclude  that  their  further  fate  was  like  that  of  the  antediluvians? 
It  does  not  pay. 

So  we  follow  down  six  hundred  years  before  the  birth  of  the  Savior, 
when  Lehi  preached  the  same  Gospel  to  the  people  in  Jerusalem,  and 
his  life  was  sought,  that  it  might  be  taken  away,  as  other  prophets  have 
lost  their  lives.  He  had  to  flee  the  city  and  was  led,  as  you  know,  to 
this  American  continent.  The  people  of  Jerusalem  who  were  not  slain 
in  battle  were  taken  captive,  and  the  city  was  destroyed,  as  Lehi  had 
predicted,  because  the  people  would  not  repent. 

Then  there  are  the  sons  of  Lehi  who  were  rebellious.  You  know 
the  punishment  that  befell  them. 

And  when  the  Savior  came,  he  came  unto  his  own  and  his  own 
received  him  not.  They  put  him  to  death,  and  they  have  since  been 
a  hiss  and  a  by-word  in  every  nation  of  the  earth,  and  the  results  of  this 
action  still  follow  them. 

Will  we,  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends,  profit  by  the  experiences 
and  the  mistakes  of  others,  as  we  read  of  them  in  the  holy  scriptures? 
If  we  are  wise  we  will  do  so.  God  grant  that  we  may,  for  the  salvation 
of  our  own  souls,  and  the  effect  that  it  will  have  upon  the  world,  I  pray, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Nebo  Stake  Male  Chorus  sang  "Service"  (Cadman). 

ELDER  BRYANT  S.  HINCKLEY 

President  of  the  Northern  States  Mission 

It  fills  a  missionary's  heart  with  gratitude  and  stirs  his  soul  with 
pride  to  attend  a  general  conference  of  the  Church.  He  may  labor  with 
ever  so  much  zeal,  still  the  returns  are  small.  His  voice  is  a  little  one  in 
the  world.  You  can  well  imagine  how  it  heartens  and  encourages  him  to 
come  to  a  conference  like  this  and  see  this  great  body  of  people !  There 
is  a  serene  and  tranquil  influence  here ;  a  sense  of  peace  and  security  born 
of  a  settled  faith  in  God  and  his  beneficence. 

I  was  greatly  interested  in  the  report  which  President  McKay  read 
yesterday,  a  brief  and  comprehensive  report  showing  the  great  service 
of  the  Church,  in  a  material  way,  for  a  single  year;  also  showing  the 
strength  of  the  Church,  its  growth  and  its  progress. 

Since  listening  to  that  report  my  mind  has  been  going  over  the  past. 
I  am  not  an  historian,  but  I  travel  over  historic  ground.  I  have  been  to 
Far  West,  frequently  to  Nauvoo  and  to  Kirtland,  and  have  passed  over 
a  good  deal  of  territory  which  has  been  sanctified  by  the  touch  of  men 
and  women  whose  hearts  were  warmed  with  a  living  faith  in  God. 

A  hundred  years  ago,  an  onlooker,  unfamiliar  with  the  spirit  and 
power  of  Mormonism  would  have  said  that  this  Church  could  not  endure. 
It  seemed  to  be  on  the  brink  of  ruin.  The  winter  of  1838-39  was  a  very 
dark  period.  The  leaders  of  the  Church  were  imprisoned.  The  people 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

were  scattered,  pillaged,  persecuted  and  pursued.  They  had  no  place  to 
go.  They  could  find  neither  rest  nor  security.  Those  were  the  days  that 
tried  men's  souls.  Many  did  not  have  the  fortitude  to  endure,  and  fell  by 
the  wayside.  Many  were  cut  off  from  the  Church  for  good  reasons. 
Among  these  were  two  of  the  three  witnesses  for  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

I  remember  reading  that  when  Brigham  Young  asked  Bishop  Part- 
ridge to  care  for  the  poor,  that  devoted  and  loyal  man  was  so  worn  that 
he  replied,  "The  poor  will  have  to  care  for  themselves."  I  only  recite 
this  to  show  that  those  days  were  hard  even  for  the  strongest. 

Out  of  those  hard  and  bitter  experiences,  great  things  were  born. 
Great  leaders  were  brought  to  the  front,  men  who,  under  the  Almighty 
have  led  this  people  for  almost  a  century.  Those  were  the  days  when 
Brigham  Young  first  gave  evidence  of  his  leadership  and  his  resourceful- 
ness. It  was  then  that  he  was  trained  for  the  great  work  which  the 
Almighty  had  in  store  for  him,  for  the  hard  and  heroic  days  of  1845  and 
1846  and  '47,  and  all  the  hard  days  that  made  up  his  great  life. 

John  Taylor,  Wilford  Woodruff,  Brigham  Young,  Heber  C.  Kim- 
ball, Willard  Richards,  and  many  others  were  given  the  opportunity,  not 
only  to  prove  their  loyalty  to  the  Prophet,  but  to  prove  their  fidelity  to 
the  truth.  These  men  were  tried  in  the  crucible  of  affliction.  Spurgeon 
once  said :  "The  great  soldiers  of  the  Cross  have  been  gathered  from  the 
highlands  of  adversity."  It  was  true  in  those  early  days  of  our  history. 
Those  people  were  winnowed  and  sifted  by  the  winds  of  adversity,  until 
nothing  but  the  wheat  was  left. 

They  were  the  people  who  went  to  Nauvoo  and  with  their  bare 
hands  built  a  magnificent  city.  They  were  the  people  who  crossed  the 
plains,  and  settled  these  valleys,  and  established  their  feet  in  these  eternal 
hills. 

You  remember  that  at  this  time  the  Governor  of  Missouri  was 
enforcing  his  cruel  exterminating  edict.  What  became  of  the  men  who 
persecuted  the  Saints?  Their  names  are  forever  forgotten,  unless  they 
are  covered  with  infamy.  And  the  great  state  that  permitted  this  persecu- 
tion atoned  for  it  in  blood  and  tears  in  the  tragic  days  of  the  Civil  War. 
Running  all  through  the  history  of  this  people  is  the  sustaining  evidence 
that  the  Almighty  has  directed  their  course.  People  recognize  that  we 
have  something  that  no  one  else  has. 

President  Grant  made  reference  yesterday  to  the  121st  Section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  explaining  that  it  was  given  to  the  Prophet 
while  he  languished  in  Liberty  Jail.  I  want  to  say,  with  him.  that  I  have 
often  thought  that  that  revelation  was  the  greatest  declaration  ever 
given  concerning  the  government  of  men.  Compulsion  finds  no  place  in 
the  government  of  God.  While  Joseph  Smith  languished  in  that  foul 
jail  in  1839  the  Almighty  revealed  to  him  the  spirit  and  the  genius  of  a 
government  better  than  the  world  has  yet  seen. 

Compulsion  cannot  in  the  long  run  succeed.  As  Brother  Geo.  F. 
Richards  has  told  us  this  morning,  that  principle  was  put  on  trial  before 
the  world  was  framed,  or  man  appeared  upon  its  surface,  and  those  who 
espoused  that  cause,  and  all  who  followed  them,  were  cast  over  the 


ELDER  PRESTON  NIBLEY 


63 


battlements  of  heaven  and  came  upon  the  earth  to  rob  men  of  their  free 
agency,  and  to  take  from  them  the  sacred  privileges  of  personal  liberty 
and  freedom  of  soul.  A  great  revelation ! 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  a  missionary  coming  home  has  his  soul 
stirred  with  two  profound  urges :  First,  to  prophesy  good  for  this  people. 
That  comes  from  a  knowledge  of  their  achievements,  from  the  record 
which  they  have  made,  from  the  standards  which  they  maintain,  and  from 
the  ideals  which  they  cherish.  We  are  not  better  than  the  people  of  the 
world,  but  the  Almighty  has  been  exceedingly  kind  to  us.  He  has  tradi- 
tionated  us  in  standards  and  ideals  sure  to  bring  us  to  recognition  in  the 
world,  if  we  have  the  faith  to  live  them. 

Now,  the  other  urge :  This  is  born  of  the  zeal  which  a  man  develops 
when  he  preaches  the  Gospel  in  the  world,  that  is  to  admonish  his  own 
people  to  live  their  religion.  My  brethren  and  sisters,  it  does  not  require 
a  prophet  to  say  that  if  we  have  the  simple  faith  to  live  the  religion  which 
the  Almighty  has  given  to  us,  we  are  sure  to  find  a  high  place  in  the  world. 
There  is  nothing  miraculous  about  it.  It  is  a  natural  result  of  the  religion 
which  we  have  received. 

God  bless  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  There  is  nothing  that  you 
can  do  to  support  the  missionary  work  like  living  it  at  home,  demonstrat- 
ing it  in  your  own  lives.  God  bless  our  President.  It  is  a  delight  to  hear 
the  ring  of  his  voice,  its  clearness,  the  precision  with  which  he  expresses 
himself,  the  benevolent  influence  which  he  radiates.  This  Church  has  had 
even  seven  presidents,  but  it  has  never  had  a  better  man  preside  over 
it  than  Heber  J.  Grant.  President  Grant  is  a  demonstrator.  He  shows 
how  it  should  be  done.  He  leads  out.  I  am  sure  the  Almighty  loves  him 
and  loves  you.  Peace  be  with  you. 

The  Northern  States  is  a  great  mission.  The  good  parents  who  are 
here  this  morning  know  that  all  is  well  with  their  children.  If  the  mis- 
sionaries weren't  happy  and  well  you  would  be  immediately  advised. 

I  know  that  Mormonism  is  true.  I  have  always  known  it.  This  is 
my  testimony  to  you :  I  never  have  seen  an  honest  heart,  that  was  warmed 
with  the  fire  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  hasn't  been  quickened  to  nobler  and 
finer  things.  This  is  my  testimony,  and  I  bear  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  PRESTON  NIBLEY 

President  of  the  Northwestern  States  Mission 

Behold  a  great  and  marvelous  work  is  about  to  come  forth  among  the 
children  of  men. 

These  words,  uttered  one  hundred  and  ten  years  ago  by  a  boy,  poor, 
unlearned,  alone,  had  little  significance  at  the  time.  Today  we  may 
paraphrase  these  remarks  and  boldly  exclaim:  "Behold  a  great  and 
marvelous  work  has  come  forth  among  the  children  of  men." 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
is  very  strong  in  the  Northwestern  states,  where  I  am  laboring  as  a 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

missionary.  There  is  scarcely  a  town  or  a  city  of  over  five  thousand 
population,  in  Oregon  or  Washington,  northern  Idaho  or  western  Mon- 
tana, but  that  you  will  find  a  congregation  of  Latter-day  Saints.  I  rejoice 
that  our  people  are  there,  and  in  every  way  they  are  loyal  and  true  to  their 
Church.  We  missionaries  could  not  begin  to  accomplish  the  work  which 
is  being  done  there  without  the  fine  cooperation  which  is  given  us  by 
the  Latter-day  Saints  who  reside  in  our  mission. 

I  am  pleased  with  the  fact  that  many  of  our  people  are  migrating  to 
the  Northwestern  states.  Our  recommends  show  that  about  one  hundred 
per  month  are  coming  into  the  Mission,  and  we  would  be  pleased  to  have 
thousands  more,  if  they  could  find  opportunities  there,  and  I  am  sure  that 
the  opportunities  are  numerous,  both  in  business  and  in  a  farming  way. 

In  our  gatherings  together  we  find  the  loyalty  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  it  is  not  an  uncommon  occurrence  to  have  people  drive  one 
hundred,  one  hundred  fifty,  or  two  hundred  miles,  to  attend  a  meeting. 
Our  Union  meetings,  which  we  hold  monthly  in  our  districts,  are  numer- 
ously attended  by  people  who  come  from  fifty  to  two  hundred  miles 
each  way  to  attend  their  Union  meetings. 

I  rejoice  in  the  young  missionaries  with  whom  I  am  permitted  to 
labor,  and  if  these  young  missionaries  are  an  example  of  the  young 
people  in  the  Church,  then  I  say,  brethren  and  sisters,  you  need  not 
have  any  fear  for  the  future.  All  these  young  missionaries,  when  they 
come  to  us,  soon  obtain  a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  and  bear  it  fearlessly, 
and  they  are  loyal  to  the  very  heart  to  their  religion  and  their  Church, 
and  they  would  die  for  it.  Many  examples  come  to  us  which  are  faith- 
inspiring. 

Not  long  ago  a  fine  boy  from  Arizona — and  Arizona  sends  us  some 
splendid  missionaries — wrote  me  to  this  effect :  He  said :  "Father  has 
gone  broke.  I  am  out  of  money."  He  didn't  ask  for  money.  He  said : 
"What  would  you  think  if  I  got  a  job  for  a  month  or  two?" 

I  had  to  answer  that  letter,  but  I  recalled,  in  reading  Church  history, 
that  the  Prophet  Joseph,  in  fleeing  from  Kirtland  to  Missouri  in  1838,  had 
applied  for  a  job  cutting  cord  wood  in  Indiana.  I  recalled  that  the  mis- 
sionaries who  went  to  England  in  1839  worked  around  New  York  City — 
Apostle  Orson  Pratt  and  George  A.  Smith  and  others — to  obtain  ship 
money  to  go  to  England.  I  recalled  that  President  Joseph  F.  Smith,  when 
he  went  as  a  boy  to  Hawaii,  worked  in  the  wheat  fields  around  San 
Francisco  to  obtain  his  ship  money. 

So  I  wrote  back  to  this  young  man,  and  said :  "All  right.  Get  a 
job  for  a  month,  but  take  your  companion  with  you."  He  wrote  me  in  a 
few  days  that  he  was  happy.  He  said :  "I  am  milking  thirteen  cows  night 
and  morning,  for  $45.00  a  month  and  my  board.  My  companion  is  pitch- 
ing hay,  and  he  is  going  to  give  me  his  check  at  the  end  of  the  month." 

At  the  end  of  the  month  he  had  $90.00,  and  the  two  started  their 
missionary  work  again.  He  bought  a  new  suit  of  clothes  and  continued 
his  missionary  work  to  a  fine  conclusion. 

There  is  loyalty,  integrity  and  fidelity  of  the  highest  type  in  these 
young  missionaries. 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


65 


In  closing  I  want  to  tell  you  that  we  feel  the  fine  support  that  we 
have  at  home.  We  have  absolute  and  perfect  confidence  in  our  President. 
We  have  absolute  and  perfect  confidence  in  his  counselors,  and  what 
they  tell  us  we  carry  out  to  the  letter.  We  have  perfect  confidence  in  the 
brethren  who  preside  over  us  and  who  come  to  visit  us. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  an  optimist.  Things  look  good  to  me,  for 
this  Church  in  the  Northwest.  May  God  bless  us,  I  ask,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

WARD  CHOIRS  ENCOURAGED 

I  express,  I  am  sure,  your  feelings  when  I  say  that  we  have  been 
delighted  with  the  excellent  music  that  has  been  rendered  during  the 
sessions  of  this  Conference.  This  Nebo  Stake  Choir  is  made  up  very 
largely  of  ward  choirs  of  that  stake.  The  Church  Music  Committee, 
with  which  I  happen  to  be  associated,  is  extremely  anxious  that  we  shall 
build  up  a  choir  in  every  ward.  These  can  be  combined  for  stake  con- 
ference music,  or  even  for  our  General  Conference  music,  as  we  have  had 
it  here  today. 

Tomorrow  night  in  the  Tabernacle  we  shall  have  a  demonstration 
of  what  sixty  ward  choirs  can  do.  Some  fifteen  hundred  singers,  who 
have  been  training  now  for  several  weeks  under  Brother  Cornwall's 
direction  and  others  associated  with  him,  are  going  to  show  you  what  can 
be  achieved  by  a  group  of  ward  choirs.  We  earnestly  hope  that  all  of  you 
who  are  interested  will  come  and  get  the  inspiration  of  what  I  think  will 
be  the  finest  demonstration  of  a  group  of  that  size  that  has  ever  been  pre- 
sented in  this  building. 

THE  MISSION  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  Church  has  a  definite  mission  and  responsibility,  and  how  ex- 
cellent it  is  that  we  come  together  every  six  months,  and  in  our  stakes 
every  three  months,  to  keep  our  eyes  upon  that  mission.  Sometimes  in 
my  missionary  work  people  have  asked :  "Why  do  you  send  missionaries 
to  this  town  ?  We  are  all  Christians  here.  Why  do  you  not  go  to  the 
pagan  nations?" 

Our  mission  is  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people,  no 
matter  what  their  faith  or  nationality.  Our  mission  is  unique.  We 
recognize  no  competitors,  and  yet  we  recognize  men  doing  good  in  all 
churches,  insomuch  as  they  teach  men  to  honor  Christ,  to  believe  in  God 
and  attempt  to  live  up  to  some  at  least  of  the  teachings  of  the  Master. 

May  I  help  you  to  keep  this  in  mind  by  calling  your  attention  to  the 
ministry  of  the  Master  himself  ?  He  undertook  to  teach  men  to  step 
forward  to  a  higher  level.  That  beautiful  Sermon  on  the  Mount,  how 
in  contrast  it  was  to  the  Mosaic  Law  that  allowed  an  eye  for  an  eye  and 


66  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

a  tooth  for  a  tooth !  There  were  not  many  who  could  endure  Christ's 
teachings,  however,  and  as  they  turned  away  from  him  he  asked  his 
disciples  if  they  would  go  also,  but  they  answered :  "Whither  shall  we  go  ? 
Thou  hast  the  words  of  eternal  life."  There  was  no  other  place.  Diffi- 
cult as  it  was,  they  were  determined  to  stay. 

REVELATION  POINTS  THE  WAY  TO  LIFE  ETERNAL 

Then  one  of  the  disciples  said  :  "Lord,  are  there  few  that  be  saved  ?" 
And  he  answered:  "Strait  is  the  gate  and  narrow  is  the  way  which 
leadeth  unto  life," — life  in  the  presence  of  God,  life  in  the  celestial 
kingdom,  life  in  the  highest  place  provided  for  the  sons  and  daughters 
of  our  Father, — "and  few  there  be  that  find  it."  "For  wide  is  the  gate, 
and  broad  is  the  way,  that  leadeth  to  destruction", — to  death,  meaning 
loss  of  that  exaltation, — "and  many  there  be  which  go  in  thereat." 

Our  declaration  to  all  men  is  that  we  know  the  strait  gate  and  the 
narrow  way,  not  from  our  knowledge,  but  from  the  revelations  of  God, 
from  those  who  knew  it,  who  have  visited  the  earth  and  have  revealed 
to  man  again  in  this  age  the  way  through  that  strait  gate  and  narrow  road, 
and  the  divine  authority  is  restored  to  administer  the  sacred  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel,  to  put  men's  feet  in  that  path  that  shall  lead  to  exaltation 
in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

We  have  gathered  together  these  hosts  of  people  who  have  enlisted, 
and  we  are  inviting  men  and  women  everywhere  to  enlist,  to  subscribe 
to  the  highest  standards  that  men  have  ever  undertaken  to  subscribe  to 
in  the  history  of  the  world.  This  people  is  peculiar  because  they  have  been 
able  to  reach  a  higher  standard  of  living  set  forth  by  the  Master.  There 
isn't  an  item  he  gave  to  man  that  is  not  incorporated  in  this  Church  and 
in  the  revelations  of  God  to  this  generation. 

HONESTY  SHOULD  CHARACTERIZE  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

What  Peter"  said  to  the  baptized  believers,  that  they  should  add  to 
their  faith  virtue,  and  to  virtue  knowledge,  and  temperance  and  patience 
and  godliness  and  brotherly  kindness  and  charity,  we  have  in  the  fourth 
section  of  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  there  is  added, 
humility  and  diligence. 

The  Prophet  said  in  the  Articles  of  Faith:  "We  believe  in  being 
honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  virtuous,  and  in  doing  good  to  all  men." 
I  say  these  standards  are  the  highest  that  have  been  undertaken  to  sub- 
scribe to  by  any  generation.  Our  ceremonies  and  ordinances  are  im- 
portant, yes,  but  it  is  only  the  initiation.  The  great  effort  is  to  bring 
poor,  weak  human  nature  to  adhere  to  these  standards  of  living,  to  be 
honest  with  each  other.  One  of  the  characteristics  of  this  Church  has 
been  that  we  have  the  reputation  of  being  honest. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  thrill  that  came  to  me  forty-three  years  ago 
when  in  the  Northern  States,  at  the  close  of  an  open-air  meeting,  an 
elderly  gentleman  with  a  high  silk  hat  drove  up  in  a  carriage,  and  asked 
if  he  might  speak.    He  said  to  the  people  of  South  Bend : 


ELDER  MELVIN  J.  BALLARD 


67 


I  want  you  to  be  kind  to  these  Mormon  Elders,  because  their  people 
are  my  friends.  I  have  been  doing  business  with  them  for  many  years.  I 
have  never  lost  a  dollar  on  a  Mormon,  and  I  cannot  say  that  of  any  other 
community  in  the  United  States.  I  have  discovered  that  a  Mormon's 
word  is  as  good  as  his  bond. 

That  was  Mr.  Studebaker,  one  of  the  members  of  that  great  institu- 
tion, Studebaker  Brothers. 

I  want  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  know  that  our  Father  in  heaven 
expects  our  reputation  for  honesty  to  be  maintained  in  order  that  we 
may  distinguish  ourselves.  Honesty  to  the  Lord  in  the  payment  of  our 
tithes  and  offerings  is  where  honesty  really  begins.  The  record  we 
heard  yesterday  thrilled  us  all  because  of  the  honesty  and  the  integrity 
of  many  of  our  people.  If  we  have  failed  there  is  always  the  chance  to 
repent  and  get  into  the  path  again  and  undertake  to  conquer  and  to 
master  and  to  overcome  the  weaknesses  of  the  flesh.  For  there  is  power 
in  this  Gospel  to  enable  the  weakest  of  the  weak  to  attain  this  perfect 
state  of  living. 

OBEDIENCE  TO  COMMANDMENTS  BRINGS  BLESSINGS 

So  far  as  mortality  is  concerned  we  do  not  expect  to  reach  perfection, 
but  we  can  live  up  to  these  standards.  There  may  be  some  of  us  who  may 
feel  like  those  of  old :  What  profit  is  it  that  we  pay  our  tithes  and  offer- 
ings ?  We  see  the  wicked  flourish  like  a  green  bay  tree.  But  the  Lord 
comforted  them  with  the  assurance  that  not  all  of  his  blessings  were 
material,  that  a  faithful  record  of  the  acts  and  the  labors  of  men  was  being 
kept,  and  added,  "When  I  come  to  make  up  my  jewels  I  will  spare  them, 
as  a  man  spareth  his  own  son  that  serveth  him."  Then  shall  the  books 
be  opened,  and  then  shall  we  know,  when  we  return  to  the  earth,  whether 
it  has  been  profitable  to  serve  God.  For  the  man  who  pays  his  honest 
tithing  is  paying  his  rent  to  the  Almighty,  who  is  the  proprietor  of  this 
earth,  and  if  he  expects  an  eternal  inheritance  upon  it  he  must  obey  the 
law  of  inheritance. 

Has  it  been  profitable  to  the  Latter-day  Saints  that  they  have  paid 
their  tithes  and  offerings  and  sent  their  sons  and  daughters  on  missions  ? 
The  record  shows  that  not  only  spiritual  blessings  but  even  material 
blessings  have  come  and  the  windows  of  heaven  have  been  opened  and 
blessings  have  been  poured  out  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

When  we  took  our  survey  of  the  membership  of  the  Church  that  was 
on  relief  it  was  not  a  surprise  to  me  to  find  eighty-five  percent  of  the 
entire  group  were  non-tithe  payers.  The  Lord  had  somehow  or  other 
taken  care  of  those  who  had  paid  their  tithing.  There  had  been  some 
who  had  felt  that  it  was  impossible  for  Latter-day  Saints  to  pay  their 
tithing,  and  then  send  their  sons  on  missions  and  meet  their  other  obli- 
gations. But  our  own  survey  reveals  the  fact  that  those  who  are  meeting 
their  obligations  are  tithe-payers,  and  those  who  are  sending  their  sons 
on  missions  are  tithe-payers,  and  they  have  not  suffered  financial  loss 
because  of  these  great  contributions. 

I  have  before  me  a  survey  of  twenty  thousand  living  returned  mis- 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

sionaries.  What  a  glorious  thing  it  is  to  discover  some  eighty-five  per- 
cent of  them  are  faithful  in  paying  their  tithing,  and  some  eighty-seven 
percent  of  them  have  employment.  The  Lord  has  fulfilled  his  promise. 
I  confess  that  a  drain  such  as  all  this  on  any  other  people,  without  the 
favor  and  the  blessing  of  the  Almighty,  would  have  bankrupted  them, 
but  it  has  not  depleted  us.  And  those  who  are  most  prosperous  and  who 
are  blessed  in  their  material  affairs  are  those  who  have  served  the  Lord 
in  this  respect. 

I  once  was  asked  by  a  banker  if  I  thought  the  time  would  ever  come 
when  the  treasures,  such  as  gold  and  silver  and  securities,  might  be  pre- 
served without  putting  them  in  banks  and  locking  them  up  and  then 
electrifying  the  vaults.  "Yes,"  I  said,  "some  day,  not  on  this  earth  in  its 
present  condition,  there  shall  be  separated  into  their  own  group  those  men 
who  are  so  honest  that  they  could  walk  within  hand's  reach  of  that  which 
is  not  theirs,  and  nothing  prevent  them,  save  the  rectitude  of  their  own 
intentions,  from  taking  that  which  does  not  belong  to  them."  And  when 
they  have  subscribed  to  all  the  other  requirements,  they  shall  find  them- 
selves in  the  celestial  kingdom,  whose  streets  will  be  paved  with  gold, 
and  whose  walls  will  be  set  with  diamonds  and  jasper,  and  there  will  be 
no  fear  of  these  valuables  being  interfered  with,  for  they  will  be  honest 
who  walk  there. 

SOWING  AND  REAPING 

There  are  two  principles  as  certain  and  as  true  as  that  the  sun  shines  : 
Like  has  ever  and  shall  ever  be  attracted  to  like ;  and  as  we  sow,  so  shall 
we  reap.   One  poet  has  expressed  it  as  follows : 

To  every  man  there  openeth  a  way  and  ways 

And  the  high  soul  climbs  the  high  way, 

While  the  low  soul  gropes  the  low, 
And  in  between  on  the  misty  flats 

The  rest  drift  to  and  fro. 

But  to  every  man  there  openeth 

A  high  way  and  a  low, 

And  every  soul  decideth 

Which  way  his  soul  shall  go. 

We  are  all  free,  but  we  are  inviting  every  man  to  climb  the  high 
way.  We  know  the  way  and  that  way  will  lead  through  the  strait  gate 
to  the  presence  of  God  Almighty  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  This  is  the 
mission  of  this  Church. 

Yes,  the  men  who  are  laboring  to  create  faith  in  the  hearts  of  the 
children  of  men  in  the  Redeemer  of  the  world  are  doing  good,  and  we 
bless  them  for  it,  but  they  are  not  engaged  in  the  kind  of  work  we  are 
engaged  in.  The  masses  of  our  Father's  sons  and  daughters  will  find 
ultimately  through  their  obedience,  their  salvation  in  some  of  our  Father's 
other  kingdoms.   But  that  is  not  the  work  that  we  are  concerned  with. 

It  is  written  in  our  own  revelations  that  only  those  that  can  abide 
the  celestial  law  can  endure  celestial  glory.  As  we  sow  so  shall  we  reap. 
We  are  reaping  now,  here  on  the  earth.  Blessed  and  fortunate  are  we, 
the  sons  of  Joseph,  the  descendants  of  Israel,  for  we  are  reaping  the  con- 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


69 


sequence  of  our  righteousness  before  ever  we  lived  on  this  earth.  Just 
as  Brother  George  F.  Richards  has  indicated  that  our  poor  benighted 
negro  brethren  are  suffering  the  consequence  of  their  sowing  at  some 
other  time  and  place,  so  as  certainly  shall  we  hereafter  reap  what  we  are 
sowing  here  and  now. 

These  are  eternal  principles.  Every  man  and  woman,  no  matter  what 
their  nationality  may  be,  who  can  subscribe  to  these  standards  and  add 
*to  their  faith  virtue,  keep  themselves  above  temptation  and  full  of  the 
spirit  of  charity  and  self-mastery  in  that  they  can  control  their  appetites 
and  otherwise  can  subscribe  to  these  highest  standards  of  living  given 
to  us  by  the  Master  in  preparation  for  eternal  living  in  his  presence, 
will  pass  to  that  company  of  glorified  men  and  women,  as  certain  as  the 
sun  shines. 

POWER  IN  THE  CHURCH 

It  is  the  mission  of  this  Church  to  prepare  men  and  women  for  eternal 
living  in  that  glorified  presence.  And  the  power  to  do  it  is  being  seen  on 
earth.  There  is  more  power  in  this  Church  today  to  control  the  world 
and  its  destinies  than  in  all  the  armies  and  all  the  guns  and  all  the  mili- 
tary provision  that  is  being  made,  for  nations  may  be  subdued  by  the  might 
and  power  of  arms  only  to  rebel.  There  is  only  one  way  by  which  the 
nations  can  be  brought  into  unity  and  into  peace  and  into  brotherhood. 
This  is  not  through  guns,  nor  might,  nor  force,  but  through  the  power 
of  God  and  the  love  of  our  fellowmen  that  is  in  the  hearts  of  this  people. 
This  great  demonstration  of  bringing  these  hosts  of  people  together  from 
all  nations,  living  here  in  love  and  brotherhood,  is  a  demonstration  the 
like  of  which  has  never  been  shown  before  in  the  history  of  the  world. 

God  bless  the  great  and  glorious  cause  of  Zion,  that  we  may  keep 
our  eye  upon  the  great  destiny  of  this  work  and  its  mission,  for  our  re- 
demption, for  our  preparation  for  exaltation  with  the  glorified  and  to  be- 
come the  hope,  the  light  of  the  world,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  am  very  deeply  mindful  of  the  responsibility  of  occupying  this 
position.  There  are  a  thousand  things  I  would  like  to  say,  but  I  would 
like  the  help  of  the  Lord  in  enabling  me  to  say  one  of  them  well.  Ap- 
proximately ten  years  of  more  or  less  intensive  activity  in  the  radio  field 
have  taught  me  that  the  best  way  to  say  a  thing  in  the  fewest  words  and 
with  the  least  time  expended  is  to  use  a  prepared  script,  but  I  have  con- 
cluded, this  morning,  to  speak  without  a  manuscript  before  me.  ■ 

INFLUENCES  SURROUNDING  GROWING  CHILDREN 

A  great  many  things  of  consequence  to  me  have  happened  within 
the  last  few  years,  one  of  the  most  important  of  which  is  the  privilege 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

I  have  had  of  becoming  the  father  of  two  fine  boys.  One  of  them,  with 
the  liberal  help  of  his  parents,  celebrated  his  first  birthday  anniversary 
recently,  and  the  other  is  now  just  past  four.  Already,  with  a  family 
yet  so  young,  we  are  beginning  to  worry  about  those  influences  which 
come  into  their  lives,  and  tend  to  shape  their  characters  and  their  moral 
and  spiritual  integrity,  outside  of  the  family  home  and  circle. 

We  realize  that  in  this  day  particularly,  children  partially  leave  the 
influence  of  their  parents  very  young.  From  the  time  they  begin  to* 
toddle  in  the  neighborhood  they  belong  partly  to  some  one  else,  and  from 
the  time  they  begin  going  to  school,  at  five  or  six  years  of  age,  this  is 
still  more  the  case,  and  from  then  on  until  they  go  out  to  make  their  own 
way,  they  move  farther  and  farther  out  of  the  realm  of  home  influence. 

COMPARISON  BETWEEN  PRESENT  AND  FORMER  CONDITIONS 

I  find  myself  at  times,  because  of  this  condition  and  because  of  the 
realization  of  it,  with  a  certain  envy  in  my  heart  for  my  grandparents — 
envy  because  of  the  moral  and  spiritual  environment  in  which  they  were 
permitted  to  rear  their  children.  They  could  go  to  sleep  at  night,  in  this 
community  and  in  most  of  those  communities  from  which  we  have 
gathered  here,  in  the  days  of  our  more  or  less  isolated  condition,  aware 
of  the  fact  that  the  family  home  and  fireside  were  the  principal  forma- 
tive elements  in  the  lives  of  their  children ;  and  if,  perchance,  their  little 
brood  was  out  at  some  place  of  entertainment,  they  could  be  assured 
that  these  places  were  being  run  by  men  whom  they  had  put  in  office,  or 
in  whom  they  had  confidence,  and  that  they  were  as  the  extended  in- 
fluence of  the  home,  and  were  protected  from  moral  tarnish  or  physical 
"harm.  And  if,  perchance,  there  were  a  wolf  at  the  door,  at  least  it  was 
the  wolf  of  honest  hunger,  and  not  a  wolf  of  warped  thinking  or  subtle 
influence. 

I  realize  that  the  catalogue  of  the  material  advantages  that  we  en- 
joy, that  our  grandparents  did  not  enjoy,  would  number  tens  of  thou- 
sands of  items  and  services,  and  a  listing  of  them  would  make  a  very 
thick  publication,  indeed ;  but  I  realize,  also  that  we  have  paid  a  price  for 
each  of  them. 

The  radio  that  carries  my  voice  beyond  the  walls  of  this  auditorium, 
the  automobile  that  takes  us  to  the  world,  and  brings  the  world  to  us; 
that  takes  our  produce  to  profitable  markets,  and  that  causes  us  to  worry 
if  our  children  happen  to  be  out  until  one  or  two  o'clock  in  the  morning ; 
the  airplane  that  brings  us  in  touch  with  our  friends  and  our  business 
associates,  almost  hourly — or  that  drops  bombs  upon  us  under  less  favor- 
able conditions — and  ten  thousand  other  items  that  might  be  listed,  for 
all  of  which  we  have  paid  a  price. 

When  I  speak  of  envying  my  grandparents  I  realize  that  I  would 
not  go  back  to  their  day  if  I  could,  and  that  I  could  not  if  I  would.  They 
solved  the  problems  of  their  day,  and  we  must  solve  the  problems  of  ours. 
Because  it  was  necessary  for  us  to  do  so,  there  was  a  time  when  we  pulled 
up  the  roots  that  had  grown  deep  into  an  older  civilization,  and  planted 
them  in  a  new  place,  but  it  is  highly  improbable  that  we  shall  ever  again 
become  an  isolated  people. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


71 


It  is  possible,  perchance,  that  we,  or  a  part  of  us,  could  again  find 
a  place  of  isolation  that  would  sustain  and  prosper  an  independent  and 
an  industrious  people,  but  by  doing  so  we  would  not  be  solving  our  prob- 
lems. We  would  only  be  postponing  them,  because  the  world  is  very 
small  in  this  day,  and  civilization  moves  in  very  quickly. 

MOVEMENT  AWAY  FROM  UTAH 

I  am  aware  of  the  fact,  further,  that  approximately  forty-three 
thousand  of  our  people  left  Utah  during  the  decade  between  1920  and 
1930  and  that  most  of  them  were  of  such  age  as  to  be  called  youth.  I 
am  further  aware  that  this  movement  is  going  on  all  around  us,  beyond 
the  borders  of  Utah,  and  that  it  continues  into  the  present  decade,  and 
shall  continue.  There  are  more  influences,  it  seems,  to  take  our  children 
from  us — more  competition  for  the  influence  that  we  have  with  them. 
I  think  we  should  not  discourage  this  movement  that  causes  them  to 
leave  us.  They  go  out  for  academic  advantages,  for  better  employment, 
and  for  various  other  reasons,  and  a  man,  after  all,  must  go  where  he 
must  go  for  the  best  good  of  all  concerned.  But  those  who  go  from  us, 
and  remain  one  of  us  and  use  their  influence  for  good,  are  among  the 
greatest  assets  we  have,  because  around  them  grow  up  groups  of  our 
Church  people,  even  so  that  it  becomes  necessary  for  us  to  establish  our 
wards  and  stakes,  from  the  East  to  the  West  in  America,  and  beyond. 
Those  who  do  not  remain  one  of  us  fall  away  and  become  lost,  and  be- 
come something  greatly  less  than  an  asset. 

HOME  INFLUENCE  FAR-REACHING 

And  so  I  say  I  am  worried  about  my  young  family,  even  now  only 
one  year  old  and  four  years  old,  and  I  hope  that  the  influence  in  the  home 
in  which  they  are  reared  will  cleave  so  closely  to  the  principles  of  this 
people  that  when  they  go  out,  their  internal  strength  will  be  greater  than 
the  outward  stresses.  I  hope  that  we  can,  in  all  of  our  homes,  cause  this 
condition  to  be  so,  in  the  coming  years,  in  the  coming  decades,  and  in  all 
the  oncoming  generations,  so  that  no  matter  where  our  young  people  go, 
or  no  matter  under  what  influence  they  may  find  themselves,  they  will 
find  that  the  fortitude- within  is  greater  than  the  temptation  without.  We 
cannot  go  out  with  them.  We  cannot  keep  our  arms  around  them,  literal- 
ly. But  we  can  give  them  all  that  a  Latter-day  Saint  home  can  give  them, 
and  we  must  begin  early. 

And  so  my  plea  this  morning  is  to  parents  in  general,  and  to  young 
parents  in  particular,  that  our  responsibilities  may  be  realized  and  may 
begin  in  infancy,  and  may  not  cease  until  the  grave,  because  our  children 
are  never  too  young  to  be  influenced  by  our  example,  and  never  too  old 
to  pass  from  the  realm  of  our  influence. 

PROPHECIES  SURE  OF  FULFILMENT 

I  do  not  know  in  what  condition  this  people  will  find  itself  a  year 
or  a  decade  or  a  generation  hence.  I  do  not  know  whether  we  shall  be 


72  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

at  war  or  at  peace,  whether  the  world  will  be  in  greater  spiritual  dark- 
ness, or  in  a  condition  of  greater  spiritual  enlightenment.  I  do  not  know 
what  new  scientific  theories  will  prevail,  or  what  new  fads  there  will  be 
in  education,  whether  the  press  will  praise  or  revile  us,  whether  men 
will  profess  friendship  or  hate  for  us,  whether  we  shall  be  in  greater 
depression  or  in  greater  prosperity,  whether  we  shall  be  materially 
better  off  or  worse  off — I  do  not  know  any  of  these  things,  but  I  do 
know  that  the  words  of  all  the  prophets  will  be  fulfilled,  and  that  what 
the  Lord  has  spoken  he  has  spoken,  and  that  though  the  heavens  and 
the  earth  pass  away,  his  words  shall  not  pass  away.  And  I  know  that  my 
family  and  I  will  be  better  off  to  be  found  among  the  faithful  of  this 
people,  than  in  any  other  condition  in  which  we  might  find  ourselves.  I 
know  also  that  this  is  true  for  my  friends,  and  for  all  men  everywhere, 
no  matter  under  what  flag  they  live,  or  in  what  land. 

A  TESTIMONY 

I  am  grateful  for  the  opportunity  to  serve.  I  thank  the  Lord  for 
my  knowledge  of  the  divinity  of  this  work,  and  I  know,  as  well  as  1 
know  any  of  the  facts  of  life,  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
and  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  came  to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith,  and  re- 
stored to  earth  the  Gospel  that  had  been  lost. 

I  ask  the  blessings  of  God  on  all  men  and  on  all  of  their  righteous 
endeavors  everywhere,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

THE  TABERNACLE  A  MONUMENT  TO  THE  PIONEERS 

It  was  a  very  remarkable  thing  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  con- 
struct this  marvelous  building,  the  Tabernacle,  on  the  edge  of  the  wild 
western  wilderness  in  early  days.  The  workmanship  of  this  old  building 
is  very  fine  and  everything  in  it  bears  the  stamp  of  artistic  design,  ex- 
ecuted by  hands  who  labored  for  the  love  of  God.  It  was  opened  for 
worship  in  October,  1867,  and  it  is  one  of  the  noblest  monuments  of  our 
city.  The  proportions  are  good ;  the  effect  is  graceful  and  imposing ;  the 
structure  is  in  good  taste,  simple,  and  impressive.  This  Tabernacle  in 
which  we  are  assembled  today  is  one  of  the  great  buildings  of  America. 
It  was  built  on  scientific  principles  and  has  been  dedicated  to  God  as  a 
place  of  holy  worship.  The  word  "Tabernacle"  is  beautiful  in  its  mean- 
ing. It  is  the  place  of  the  Holy  Altar,  where  the  people  go  up  to  hear 
the  word  of  the  Lord.  Every  time  we  come  here,  we  dedicate  this  build- 
ing by  our  spirit  of  worship  and  adoration. 

As  we  sit  here  today  under  this  marvelous  dome,  we  may  well  praise 
the  Lord  for  his  goodness  unto  us.  It  is  a  holy  shrine,  a  place  of  com- 
munal worship.  If  we  are  to  enjoy  and  understand  it,  we  must  search 
for  the  thoughts  and  emotions,  which  testify  alike  to  its  beauty  and  to 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


73 


ihe  goodness  of  human  life.  We  should  know  something  about  the 
thoughts  and  the  faith  of  its  builders  as  well  as  the  craft  with  which  the 
walls  were  built  and  the  span  was  roofed.  It  is  a  house  of  God,  for  it 
shows  how  the  chief  manifestitations  of  religious  feeling  are  connected 
with  the  idealism  and  the  geographical  influences  of  the  surrounding 
country.  We  should  know  the  human  constants  that  entered  into  its 
creation :  hunger  and  labor,  seed-time  and  harvest,  love  and  death,  faith 
and  hope.  All  these  forces  operated  to  create  this  Tabernacle,  as  well  as 
our  sacred  Temples. 

In  the  days  of  the  Emperor  Akbar,  there  was  written  above  the 
doors  of  the  temple  these  words : 

O  God,  in  every  temple  I  see  people  who  see  thee, 
And  in  every  language  I  hear,  they  praise  thee. 

PRAISE  FROM  EMINENT  PEOPLE 

It  was  Ruskin,  the  English  art  critic,  who  pointed  out  the  truth  that 
the  basic  principle  of  architecture  is  found  in  the  capacity  of  matter  to 
bear  a  weight  and  span  a  space.  From  this  point  of  view,  how  glorious 
is  this  building !  Professor  Thomas  E.  Talmadge  of  the  American  In- 
stitute of  Architects  says :  "Up  and  down  the  Atlantic  seaboard,  through 
the  Western  Reserve,  along  the  Gulf  of  Mexico,  up  the  Mississippi, 
and  over  the  plains,  the  Greek  Revival  spread.  I  have  noticed  that  the 
famous  tabernacle  built  in  Salt  Lake  City  by  that  extraordinary  man, 
Brigham  Young,  has  the  tell-tale  Greek  profiles  in  its  mouldings  and 
cornices.  In  all  these  localities,  climate,  building  materials,  and  even  the 
habits  of  the  people  differ  enormously.  Yet  the  style  of  the  architecture 
and  even  its  forms  are  common  to  all." 

A  few  years  ago,  Dr.  Wallace  Clement  Sabine  of  Harvard  Uni- 
versity came  to  Salt  Lake  City  with  a  letter  of  introduction  from  Dr. 
Edward  Channing.  The  letter  said  in  part:  "Dr.  Sabine  would  like  to 
look  over  your  great  tabernacle.  Kindly  help  him."  I  met  Dr.  Sabine 
and  spent  many  days  with  him.  The  tabernacle  intrigued  him,  he  studied 
its  contour  and  its  acoustic  properties.  In  this  book,  entitled  Collected 
Papers  on  Acoustics,  Dr.  Sabine  says: 

I  know  of  no  building  a  considerable  portion  of  whose  wall  or  ceiling- 
surface  is  part  of  an  exact  ellipsoid  of  revolution,  but  the  great  Mormon 
Tabernacle  in  Salt  Lake  City  is  a  near  approximation.  Plans  of  this  re- 
markable building  do  not  exist,  for  it  was  laid  out  on  the  ground  without 
the  aid  of  formal  drawings  soon  after  the  settlers  had  completed  their  weary 
pilgrimage  across  the  Utah  desert  and  settled  in  their  isolated  valley 
It  was  built  without  nails,  which  were  not  to  be  had,  and  held  together 
merely  by  wooden  pins  and  tied  with  strips  of  buffalo  hide.  Notwithstand- 
ing this  construction,  and  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  it  spans  250  feet 
in  length,  and  ISO  feet  in  breadth,  and  is  without  any  interior  columns  of 
any  sort,  it  has  been  free  from  the  necessity  of  essential  repair  for  over 
fifty  years.  As  the  photograph  shows,  taken  at  the  time  of  building,  the 
space  between  the  ceiling  and  the  roof  is  a  wooden  bridge  truss  construction. 
These  photographs,  given  by  the  elders  of  the  church,  are  themselves  inter- 
esting considering  the  circumstances  under  which  they  were  taken,  the 
early  date  and  the  remote  location. 

It  is  difficult  for  an  interior  photograph  of  a  smooth  ceiling  to  give  an 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

impression  of  its  shape.  An  idea  of  the  shape  of  the  interior  of  the  Taber- 
nacle may  be  obtained,  however,  from  a  photograph  of  its  exterior.  It  ob- 
viously somewhat  resembles  an  ellipsoid  of  revolution.  It  is  equally  obvious 
that  it  is  not  exactly  that.  Nevertheless  there  are  two  points  between  which 
faint  sounds  are  carried  with  remarkable  distinctness — the  reader's  desk 
and  the  front  of  the  balcony  in  the  rear. 

The  essential  geometrical  property  of  an  ellipsoid  of  revolution  is  that 
lines  drawn  to  any  point  of  the  surface  from  the  two  foci  make  equal  angles 
with  the  surface.  It  follows  that  sound  diverging  from  one  focus  will  be 
reflected  toward  the  other.  The  preceding  photographs  show  the  progress 
of  a  sound-wave  in  the  model  of  an  idealized  whispering  gallery  of  this 
type  in  which  the  reflecting  surface  is  a  portion  of  a  true  ellipsoid  of  revo- 
lution. 

PLACES  IN  WHICH  TO  WORSHIP  THE  LORD 

As  you  sit  here  this  morning  and  cast  your  eyes  to  the  ceiling  you 
will  feel  the  majesty  of  its  creation.  Right  that  you  should.  Before  it 
was  built  it  was  worked  out  in  the  mind  of  a  great  architect  whose  name 
was  Henry  Grow.  The  style  of  the  building  was  happily  chosen,  and 
though  I  am  told  that  it  violates  some  architectural  conventions,  it  has  a 
large  note  of  originality  that  is  very  conspicuous.  It  is  a  realized  dream, 
and  it  was  wrought  out  by  hard  labor  and  sublime  faith.  It  has  a  spiritual 
quality  that  puts  us  all  in  a  proper  frame  of  mind  to  receive  the  word 
of  God.  The  great  men  who  built  it  demonstrated  that  their  talents  were 
equal  to  their  tasks. 

So  may  we  also  speak  of  our  meeting  houses  in  every  stake  of  Zion. 
They  are  small  tabernacles,  where  the  Saints  go  up  to  hear  the  word  of 
God,  and  to  partake  of  the  holy  sacrament.  We  can  make  of  our  sacra- 
ment meeting  something  more  sacred  and  divine.  Every  Sabbath  even- 
ing we  should  go  to  these  holy  houses,  with  the  spirit  of  worship.  There 
should  be  no  whispering,  no  noise,  no  feeling  of  hate  or  envy  in  the  soul 
of  any  one  who  sits  within  the  sacred  presence  of  the  Lord. 

You  do  sit  in  the  sacred  presence  of  the  Lord  when  you  are  as- 
sembled in  one  of  these  holy  houses,  for  a  prayer  has  dedicated  the 
meeting  to  God.  "We  take  upon  ourselves  his  holy  name." 

If  you  will  turn  to  the  first  Book  of  Kings,  you  will  find  the  prayer 
that  was  recited  by  the  people  who  went  into  Solomon's  temple.  It  is 
in  the  8th  chapter,  28  and  29  verses,  and  reads : 

Yet  have  thou  respect  unto  the  prayer  of  thy  servant,  and  to  his 
supplication,  O  Lord  my  God,  to  hearken  unto  the  cry  and  to  the  prayer 
which  thy  servant  prayeth  before  thee  today. 

That  thine  eyes  may  be  open  toward  this  house  night  and  day,  even 
toward  the  place  of  which  thou  hast  said,  My  name  shall  be  there:  that 
thou  mayest  hearken  unto  the  prayer  which  thy  servant  shall  make  toward 
this  place. 

TRIBUTE  TO  EARLY  BUILDERS 

The  design  of  the  building  was  suggested  by  President  Brigham 
Young,  and  it  was  planned  by  Henry  Grow.  The  largest  hall  in  the 
world  unsupported  by  columns,  it  was  built  after  the  Remington  Patent 
of  Lattice  bridges,  in  which  construction  Mr.  Grow  was  a  master.  The 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


building  of  the  stone  pillars  was  supervised  by  another  master  builder, 
William  B.  Folsom.  It  is  my  joy  to  pay  tribute  to  these  two  brethren, 
as  well  as  to  Truman  O.  Angell,  whose  genius  was  expressed  in  the 
building  of  the  Temple.  In  fact  there  were  many  fine  architects  and 
builders  in  the  early  days  of  this  State,  men  who  gave  their  lives  to  help 
build  the  cities  and  meeting  houses  and  who  had  ever  before  them  the 
establishment  of  the  kingdom  of  God  in  the  world. 

NEED  FOR  WORSHIP 

This  great  building  has  a  beauty  of  holiness;  and  all  our  meeting 
houses  should  have  the  same  beauty,  for  they  are  dedicated  for  holy 
worship.  Their  charm  must  be  in  the  thousands  of  happy  people,  both 
old  and  young,  who  give  thanks  to  God  for  the  opportunity  of  living 
life,  and  for  the  light  that  has  come  into  the  world  to  guide  us  to  the 
kingdom.  The  need  of  the  world  today  is  the  worship  of  God  by  every 
living  soul.  In  worship,  hate,  unkindness  and  war  come  to  an  end,  for 
where  the  love  of  mankind  is,  there  is  God.  If  we  all  lived  according  to 
the  light,  our  homes  would  be  places  of  worship,  and  God  would  have 
an  altar  in  every  dwelling.  Our  meeting  houses  would  also  be  shrines 
where  our  faith  would  be  met  by  the  Spirit  of  God. 

May  we  not  every  Sabbath  day  say :  "Come,  let  us  go  up  unto  the 
temple  to  worship  him,  to  show  our  adoration  of  him  who  gives  us  the 
way  to  attain  eternal  life."  May  the  blessing  of  God  attend  us  one  and 
all  when  we  are  assembled  in  this  beautiful  house  of  the  Lord. 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

We  are  very  grateful  to  the  Nebo  Stake  Choir  and  thank  them  for 
their  fine  music  upon  this  occasion. 

We  were  also  delighted  with  the  singing  of  the  Singing  Mothers 
yesterday,  and  we  thank  them  for  their  fine  work. 


An  anthem,  "Cherubim,"  (Bortniansky)  was  sung  by  the  Nebo 
Stake  Choir. 

Elder  Wilf ord  A.  Beesley,  President  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  offered 
the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  p.  m.,  Friday,  April  7. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency, conducted  this,  the  fourth  session  of  the  Conference,  and  an- 
nounced that  the  music  for  this  session  would  be  furnished  by  the 
Nebo  Stake  Choir,  J.  D.  Christensen,  Director. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do  What 
Is  Right." 

Elder  John  C.  Todd,  President  of  the  Gridley  Stake  offered  the 
opening  prayer. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

President  Grant  was  advised  to  conserve  his  strength  this  afternoon, 
and  so  he  is  following  the  advice  of  his  physician.  There  is  nothing 
serious,  however,  nothing  about  which  to  be  alarmed.  He  is  listening 
in  to  the  services  and  is  with  us  in  spirit. 


The  Nebo  Stake  Choir  sang  "Recessional"  (DieKoven),  Irene 
Provostgaurd,  soloist. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  I  may  have  an 
interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers  during  the  moment  or  two  that  I  shall 
stand  before  you  this  day. 

AN  EXPRESSION  OF  GRATITUDE 

I  am  gratified  to  know  that  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
as  it  has  been  revealed  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  is  true.  I 
am  grateful  for  my  membership  in  this  Church.  I  am  particularly 
grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  opportunity  that  has  been 
afforded  me  in  visiting  some  of  the  stakes  of  Zion  this  past  year,  and 
in  becoming  acquainted  with  you. 

I  have  nothing  in  my  heart  but  gratitude  and  appreciation  for  the 
association  that  is  mine  with  the  leadership  of  this  Church.  I  have 
found  these  men  to  be  inspired  leaders  of  the  Lord,  with  but  one  desire 
in  their  hearts,  and  that  to  diligently  labor  for  the  benefit  and  the  welfare 
of  the  membership  of  this  great  Church. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


77 


To  me,  the  Church  has  two  objectives.  The  first  one  is  to  preach 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people. 
That  has  been  and  is  being  accomplished  through  the  efforts  of  the 
young  men  and  women  who  are  representing  the  Church  in  the  world 
today,  under  the  inspired  leadership  of  the  mission  presidents. 

THE  VALUE  OF  COUNSEL 

The  next  objective,  as  I  understand  it,  is  that  one  which  has  to  do 
with  the  entire  membership  of  the  Church,  to  see  that  they  are  counseled, 
advised,  exhorted,  and  stimulated  to  the  utmost  to  observe  all  that  the 
Lord  requires  of  his  people. 

A  statement  of  one  of  the'  ancients  impresses  upon  us  the  value  of 
counsel,  "Where  no  counsel  is,  the  people  fall;  but  in  the  multitude  of 
counselors  there  is  safety."  In  the  restoration  of  the  Church  organiza- 
tion the  Lord  placed  in  it  offices  and  officers  for  the  purpose  of  coun- 
seling the  people,  that  they  might  live  and  be  in  safety.  The  first  great 
counselor  to  the  people  is  the  President  of  the  Church,  a  prophet,  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  with  the  right  to  counsel  and  advise 
the  people  in  all  things,  be  they  temporal  or  spiritual. 

We  accept  the  President  of  the  Church  as  a  prophet  of  the  Lord. 
The  Lord  reveals  to  him  his  mind  and  will,  as  it  pertains  to'  us.  Amos 
of  old  said,  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do  nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his 
secret  unto  his  servants  the  prophets."  And  we  have  a  prophet  in  our 
midst,  through  whom  the  Lord  makes  known  his  mind  and  will. 

The  President  of  the  Church  and  the  prophet  of  the  Lord  holds 
another  prerogative,  another  right,  by  virtue  of  his  calling,  which  none 
of  us  should  ever  question,  the  right  to  raise  a  voice  of  warning  when 
any  issue  arises  that  endangers  the  moral,  temporal,  or  spiritual  welfare 
of  the  people. 

The  two  counselors  of  the  President  have  the  right  to  counsel, 
advise,  and  exhort  us.  The  Council  of  the  Twelve  are  sent  to  the  stakes 
periodically  to  advise  and  counsel  the  people,  and  to  build  up  the  King- 
dom. We  have  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy,  Stake  Presidents,  and 
Bishops,  sharing  the  responsibility  of  teaching  the  people.  There  is 
also  another  great  group  of  counselors  to  the  people.  This  group  of 
counselors  is  found  in  every  ward.  They  may  number  from  forty  to 
probably  one  hundred  and  twenty-five.  We  call  them  Teachers,  men 
endowed  with  the  Priesthood  sent  out  to  counsel  and  teach  the  people 
at  least  once  a  month. 

In  the  twentieth  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  fiftieth 
to  fifty-fifth  verses,  we  read : 

But  when  there  is  an  elder  present,  he  is  only  to  preach,  teach,  expound, 
exhort,  and  baptize, 

And  visit  the  house  of  each  member,  exhorting  them  to  pray  vocally 

and  in  secret  and  attend  to  all  family  duties. 

***** 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

The  teacher's  duty  is  to  watch  over  the  Church  always,  and  be  with 
them  and  strengthen  them; 

And  see  that  there  is  no  iniquity  in  the  Church,  neither  hardness  with 
each  other,  neither  lying,  backbiting,  nor  evil  speaking. 

And  see  that  the  Church  meet  together  often,  and  also  see  that  all 
members  do  their  duty. 

THE  DUTY  OF  TEACHERS 

These  are  the  Teachers  that  have  the  direct  contact  with  each  and 
every  family  in  the  Church.  These  Teachers  have  definite  responsibilities, 
and  I  should  like  to  point  out  several  of  them.  First,  a  Teacher  should 
lead  an  exemplary  life.  Secondly,  he  should  be  prepared  and  understand 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  He  should  approach  his  work  with  a 
prayerful  attitude.  He  should  visit  regularly,  and  preclude  all  material 
and  conversation  that  does  not  pertain  to  the  monthly  message.  And 
finally,  to  follow  the  admonition  as  given  to  us  in  the  revelation,  to  watch 
over  the  Church  always,  to  be  with  and  strengthen  them,  not  only  in 
times  of  prosperity,  but  in  times  of  death,  sickness,  economic  stress,  and 
particularly  where  there  are  cases  of  inactivity  in  the  ward. 

There  is  no  greater  assignment  to  the  Priesthood  than  watching 
over  the  Church.  The  missionary  objective  of  the  Church  is  a  great  one. 
It  brings  members  into  the  Church.  But  this  assignment  of  watching 
over  the  Church  is  just  as  important.  It  has  its  place,  for  with  this 
assignment  we  keep  those  who  come  into  the  Church,  active,  interested 
and  stimulated. 

Those  of  us  who  are  taught  by  these  Teachers  have  some  responsi- 
bilities. When  these  Teachers  visit  our  homes  they  should  be  received  as 
representatives  either  of  the  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  stake  presi- 
dency, or  the  bishop  of  the  ward.  They  should  be  regarded  as  servants 
of  the  Lord,  receiving  every  courtesy.  The  evening  paper  should  be  laid 
aside,  the  radio  turned  off,  the  family  called  together,  and  the  leading 
of  the  discussion  turned  over  to  the  Teachers. 

The  Teachers  have  another  obligation.  It  is  their  duty  not  only 
to  call  upon  these  families  once  a  month,  but  to  visit  them  often.  They 
should  think  of  them  in  terms  of  being  shepherds  of  the  flock.  The 
greatest  example  of  a  real  shepherd  is  found  in  the  case  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  when  he  instructed  Peter  to  "feed  my  sheep  and  feed  my  lambs," 
and  then  told  the  beautiful  story  of  the  shepherd  who  had  lost  one  of 
the  fold,  and  leaving  the  other  ninety-nine  who  were  secure  in  the  fold, 
hastened  into  the  desert  to  rescue  the  lost  one.  The  duty  of  the  Teachers 
of  the  Church  should  always  be  to  rescue  the  lost  ones,  bringing  them 
back  into  the  fold. 

There  isn't  a  parent  who  does  not  have  the  heartfelt  desire  of  having 
his  son  or  daughter  understand  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Complaints 
are  often  heard  about  our  young  people  attending  institutions  of  learn- 
ing, and  coming  in  contact  with  the  theories  of  men,  which  have  dis- 
rupted their  faith  in  and  attitude  toward  religion.  If  we  take  advantage, 
brethren  and  sisters,  of  these 'visits,  permitting  our  boys  and  girls  to 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


79 


participate  in  the  discussion,  thus  receiving  an  understanding  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  they  will  be  fortified,  when  attending  other  insti- 
tutions, against  the  doctrines  of  men. 

There  isn't  an  individual  in  this  Church,  who  has  the  interest  of 
the  youth  at  heart,  but  who  would  be  thrilled  to  have  his  boy  or  his 
girl  stand  up  and  say,  as  Ruth  of  old  said  to  her  companion:  "Your 
people  shall  be  my  people,  and  your  God  my  God."  In  teaching  the 
people,  it  should  be  one  of  our  objectives  to  touch  the  hearts  of  the  youth. 

This  teaching  and  counseling  is  in  full  accord  with  the  first  organi- 
zation of  the  Church.  We  find  that  the  Apostle  Paul,  in  speaking  to  the 
Ephesian  Saints,  said : 

And  he  gave  some,  apostles ;  and  some,  prophets ;  and  some,  evan- 
gelists ;  and  some,  pastors,  and  teachers ; 

For  the  perfecting  of  the  Saints,  for  the  work  of  the  ministry,  for  the 
edifying  of  the  body  of  Christ ; 

Till  we  all  come  in  the  unity  of  the  faith,  and  of  the  knowledge  of 
the  Son  of  God,  unto  a  perfect  man,  unto  the  measure  of  the  stature  of 
the  fulness  of  Christ. 

In  this  day  of  the  restored  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  he  has 
again  set  some  apostles  and  prophets  and  evangelists  and  pastors  and 
teachers  for  the  purpose  of  counseling  the  people,  perfecting  the  Saints, 
until  we  all  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  his 
purposes,  and  a  unity  of  the  faith. 

If  we  fulfil  the  obligation  that  rests  upon  us,  we  will  consider  this 
matter  of  teaching  the  people  as  the  highest  and  the  most  important 
calling  that  can  come  to  us  in  the  stakes  and  the  wards  of  Zion. 

THE  CHURCH  TO  BE  A  STANDARD  TO  THE  WORLD 

The  Lord  has  given  us  a  definite  mission  to  fulfil  to  the  world. 
This  Church  and  people  are  to  become  a  light  unto  the  world,  a  beacon 
on  a  hill,  for  he  said  to  us,  in  the  115  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, verse  5 : 

Verily  I  say  unto  you  all :  Arise  and  shine  forth,  that  thy  light  may 
be  a  standard  for  the  nations. 

The  light  of  this  Church  will  be  a  standard  to  the  world,  insofar 
as  we  strengthen  its  membership,  individually  and  collectively. 

I  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord  will  bless  us  that  we  may  have  in 
our  hearts  always  a  burning  testimony  of  the  divine  origin  of  this  great 
organization  and  its  purposes,  that  when  the  day  comes  to  stand  before 
the  nations  we  shall  be  prepared  to  stand  as  a  source  of  truth,  inspiration, 
and  good  works,  which  I  pray  will  be  the  achievement  of  all  of  us,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ-  Amen, 


80 

Friday,  April  7 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Notwithstanding,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  the  timid  feeling  that  is  in 
my  soul,  I  am  very  happy  to  be  called  upon  to  speak  this  afternoon. 

OPPORTUNITIES  GIVEN  THE  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

When  I  see  the  large  congregation  of  men  and  women  that  we  have 
today,  and  the  large  congregation  of  women  that  we  had  the  other  day 
when  this  Tabernacle  was  filled  with  Relief  Society  workers,  and  when 
I  see  the  great  number  of  members  of  the  Priesthood  who  gather  in  this 
building,  and  know  of  the  large  attendance  of  members  of  the  Church 
that  we  have  in  our  ward  and  stake  conferences  and  our  auxiliary  meet- 
ings, it  impresses  me  with  the  fact  we,  as  a  people,  are  surely  blessed 
in  the  opportunities  that  are  given  to  us  for  religious  training  and  develop- 
ment. This  opportunity  that  we  have  of  being  members  of  the  Church, 
and  participating  in  the  activities  of  the  Church,  surely  trains  us  in 
leadership,  and  trains  us  to  be  intelligent  followers. 

We  are  a  church  of  office  holders.  The  majority  of  us  have  been 
leaders  in  the  Church,  are  leaders,  or  some  day  will  be.  Paradoxically, 
we  are  all  followers,  and  none  of  us  is  exempt  from  the  directing  influ- 
ence of  other  men  and  women  who  may  have  been  appointed  to  preside 
over  us.  The  privilege  of  presiding  gives  us  training  in  leadership  and 
executive  ability.  To  be  a  follower  trains  us  in  humility  and  appreciation 
of  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Church,  and  helps  us  to  be  sympathetic, 
kind  and  tolerant  towards  each  other. 

Perhaps  these  blessings  have  come  to  us  because  of  the  type  of  or- 
ganization which  we  have  in  the  Church.  We  are  divided  into  stakes 
and  wards  and  missions  and  branches.  Being  in  small  units  we  are  able 
to  know  each  other  personally  and  to  be  helpful  to  each  other  in  time  of 
need.  This  type  of  organization  gives  us  the  same  advantages  in  the 
Church  units  as  the  family  gives  the  father  and  mother  and  the  boys  and 
girls  in  the  family  unit. 

Then,  again,  we  have  the  auxiliaries,  in  which  we  have  another  op- 
portunity to  teach  or  to  be  taught,  to  be  a  leader  or  to  be  a  follower.  The 
objectives  of  these  auxiliary  organizations  are  to  train  us  in  the  things 
of  God,  to  help  us  to  have  faith  in  the  revealed  word  of  our  Heavenly 
Father,  to  acquaint  us  with  the  cultural  things  of  life,  and  to  give  us  an 
opportunity  of  participating  in  different  types  of  activity  that  mean 
development  and  progress. 

PRIESTHOOD  INTENDED  FOR  SERVICE 

Perhaps  our  greatest  blessing  is  the  Priesthood.  Most  of  the  male 
members  of  the  Church  have  the  opportunity  of  holding  the  Priesthood 
of  the  Lord,  functioning  in  the  activities  of  the  Priesthood,  and  perform- 
ing duties  and  obligations  that  bring  happiness  and  comfort  and  consola- 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


81 


tion  to  the  members  of  the  Church.  All  of  these  things  are  an  advantage 
to  us  in  our  progress  and  development,  but  they  are  of  no  value  unless 
we  use  them  as  they  should  be  used.  We  are  given  the  Priesthood  so 
that  we  might  act  in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  and  perform  services  for  him 
to  benefit  and  help  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Church.  If  we  are 
only  going  to  hold  the  Priesthood  because  it  is  offered  to  us,  or  because 
we  have  arrived  at  a  certain  age,  I  am  sure  that  it  is  not  very  valuable  to  us. 

I  am  convinced  that  the  Lord  did  not  intend  that  we  should  have 
the  Priesthood  just  to  hold,  but  that  he  expects  us  to  function  honor- 
ably and  progressively  in  this  Priesthood.  There  seems  to  be  no  justice 
in  ordaining  a  boy  who  is  a  Priest,  to  the  office  of  an  Elder  if  he  hasn't 
functioned  as  a  Priest,  or  shown  any  desire  to  do  the  things  that  might 
have  been  assigned  to  him. 

There  is  no  particular  use  of  having  our  auxiliary  organizations 
unless  we  go  to  them,  unless  they  are  carried  on  in  the  best  possible  way, 
and  unless  in  them  we  are  taught  correct  doctrine.  It  seems  to  me  that 
the  Church  shouldn't  have  to  be  worrying  about  the  correctness  of  doc- 
trines being  taught  in  our  auxiliary  organizations.  The  type  of  men  and 
women  selected  for  teachers  and  the  care  given  the  preparation  of  study 
courses  should  prove  ample  safeguard. 

"harmonizers" 

Recently  I  have  been  talking  to  some  individuals  about  science  and 
religion.  Some  of  them  are  teachers  in  our  auxiliaries  and  other  Church 
institutions.  Because  of  their  attitude  and  their  frequent  reference  to 
the  word  "harmonize"  I  have,  for  my  own  convenience,  called  them 
"harmonizers."  As  near  as  I  can  find  out,  a  harmonizer  in  the  Church 
is  one  who  can  take  the  doctrines  and  revealed  word  of  the  Lord  and 
adroitly,  by  some  whittling  or  some  minor  operation,  if  necessary,  fit  them 
into  the  scientific  and  intellectual  puzzles  of  the  day,  without  any  apparent 
harm,  (from  his  point  of  view)  to  the  doctrine  of  the  Church,  or  to  the 
puzzle,  or  to  the  student. 

MANY  BLESSINGS 

It  seems  to  me,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  when  we  have  all  of  these 
advantages  in  the  way  of  small  units  where  we  are  kept  closely  together 
in  the  auxiliaries  that  perform  a  certain  important  and  vital  part  of  the 
Lord's  work,  and  when  we  have  the  Priesthood  which  brings  happiness 
and  comfort,  that  we  are  indeed  a  blessed  people  and  we  should  be,  as 
undoubtedly  we  are,  very  grateful  unto  our  Heavenly  Father  for  all 
these  blessings. 

I  trust,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  as  Latter-day  Saints  we  will  take 
advantage  of  the  opportunities  that  are  available  to  us  so  that  the  Lord 
will  be  more  pleased  with  us  than  he  may  be  at  the  present  time,  and  that 
because  of  the  righteousness  of  our  lives  we  may  receive  greater  blessings 
and  be  more  worthy  of  a  place  in  his  kingdom.  This  I  humbly  pray  in 
Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  %    Second  Day 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Associate  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  deem  it  a  privilege,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  with  you  in  this 
great  conference,  and  partake  of  the  spirit  that  has  been  manifest  in  all 
the  meetings  thus  far.  I  rejoice  in  the  wonderful  spirit  of  testimony  and 
instruction  that  have  been  given  to  us.  I  have  been  delighted  with  the 
beautiful  music  that  has  been  rendered.  I  have  been  greatly  impressed 
with  the  song  that  was  sung  this  afternoon,  that  we  should  still  appreciate 
the  sacrifice  established  of  the  Lord,  that  we  should  have  a  broken  heart 
and  a  contrite  spirit,  love  him  and  serve  him,  and  not  forget  the  cove- 
nants we  have  made  with  him. 

It  is  a  pleasure  to  hear  our  President  bear  the  splendid  testimony 
he  has  given,  and  to  receive  the  fine  report  that  was  made  at  the  be- 
ginning of  the  conference  with  regard  to  the  splendid  condition  of  the 
Church,  and  the  work  that  has  been  done  in  the  past  year. 

There  is  a  great  responsibility  that  rests  upon  every  one  who  stands 
up  to  speak  to  this  people.  It  is  a  fact  that  this  is  the  people  of  the  Lord, 
that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  that  every  one  who  is  engaged 
therein  has  a  responsibility  to  do  his  part  in  the  advancement  of  this 
work.  My  desire  is  to  help  in  the  very  best  way  I  can  to  accomplish 
the  designs  of  the  Lord,  in  the  advancement  of  his  purposes  and  the 
welfare  of  the  people. 

MARRIAGE  AND  DIVORCE 

I  was  interested  this  morning  in  what  Elder  Smoot  was  saying 
about  the  subject  of  divorce  and  the  degenerative  effects  of  divorce 
upon  civilization  today.  Honorable  marriage  is  of  fundamental  im- 
portance to  the  progress  of  civilization,  and  divorce  is  one  of  the  most 
serious  problems  in  the  state  of  our  civilization.  In  examining  the  records 
of  marriage  and  divorce  in  the  United  States  and  in  the  Church,  it  ap- 
pears that  the  average  marriage  rate  for  the  nation — the  latest  year  in 
which  I  have  complete  information — was  10.28  per  1000  population  as 
compared  with  17.3  per  1000  population  for  the  Church,  or  about  70% 
more  for  the  Church.  In  the  matter  of  divorce,  the  national  rate  averaged 
1.61  as  compared  with  0.76  per  1000  population  for  the  Church,  or  about 
53%  less  for  the.  Church.  In  the  instance  of  divorces  after  Temple 
marriages,  the  rate  was  0.30  per  1000  population,  or  about  82%  less  than 
for  the  nation.  Comparison  of  marriage  and  divorce  rates  in  each  case 
shows  that  in  the  nation  the  divorce  rate  was  15.6%  of  the  marriage 
rate,  in  the  Church  generally  the  average  divorce  rate  was  4.4%,  and  . 
after  Temple  marriages,  the  divorce  rate  was  about  1.7%  of  the  marriage 
rate, 

TEMPLE  MARRIAGES 

A  study  of  this  information  reveals  the  fact  that  of  those  married 
in  the  temples  there  are  relatively  very  few  divorces.   It  is  to  be  ex- 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON  83 

pected  that  such  should  be  the  case,  and  that  those  married  under  such 
impressive  conditions  and  under  a  covenant  with  such  sacredness  and 
holiness,  would  not  break  the  contract.  When  it  is  realized  that  such  a 
covenant  involves  the  unity  of  man  and  wife  for  all  eternity,  it  is  natural 
that  each  of  the  parties  should  not  be  hasty  in  taking  this  important 
step,  but  should  seek  to  be  fully  prepared  through  love  and  faith  to  con- 
tinue this  sacred  relation  throughout  this  life.  To  fulfil  most  fully  the 
requirements  for  a  happy  marriage  the  two  must  be  filled  with  true  love, 
charity,  forgiveness,  mutual  consideration  and  patience.  They  must  have 
love  for  children,  and  be  willing  to  bear  children,  and  train  them  in  faith 
and  righteousness.  It  is  evident  that  there  are  some  cases  where  those 
who  have  entered  into  this  covenant  were  not  prepared  through  long- 
suffering,  forgiveness  and  love  to  be  united  forever  in  harmony  and 
happiness.  The  young  people  everywhere  throughout  the  Church  should 
be  impressed  with  the  great  advantage  that  will  come  to  them  throughout 
their  lives  through  being  prepared  to  go  to  the  Temple  and  enter  into 
this  covenant  of  marriage.  From  the  information  submitted  above,  it 
will  be  evident  that  temple  marriage  covenants  are  most  helpful  in  main- 
taining happy  homes,  and  love,  peace,  unity,  patience  and  forgiveness 
between  parents  and  children,  all  of  which  are  most  effective  in  develop- 
ing the  finest  civilization. 

PARENTAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

One  of  the  greatest  obligations  resting  upon  the  parents  is  that  of 
parental  responsibility.  The  duty  of  the  parents  to  bring  up  their  chil- 
dren in  the  faith  and  knowledge  of  the  Gospel  is  co-equal  with  the  duty 
of  the  Church  to  preach  the  Gospel  in  all  the  world.  I  desire  to  read  to 
you  a  few  words  of  scripture  revealed  by  the  Lord  in  the  restoration  of 
the  Gospel  in  the  19th  century,  as  contained  in  the  68th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

And  again,  inasmuch  as  parents  have  children  in  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized,  that  teach  them  not  to  understand  the  doctrine 
of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands,  when  eight 
years  old,  the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the  parents. 

For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized. 

And  their  children  shall  be  baptized  for  the  remission  of  their  sins 
when  eight  years  old,  and  receive  the  laying  on  of  the  hands. 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

And  the  inhabitants  of  Zion  shall  also  observe  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep 
it  holy. 

May  I  also  quote  from  Proverbs,  the  saying  of  the  wise  man : 

Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,  and  when  he  is  old  he  will 
not  depart  from  it. 

One  of  our  speakers  yesterday  commented  on  the  fact  that  to  train 
a  child  comprehends  much  more  than  teaching,  because  the  training  in- 
volves not  only  the  instruction  but  the  application  thereof  also  in  the  life 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

of  the  child,  and  the  observance  of  those  principles  and  habits  that  will  en- 
alble  him  to  establish  himself  in  the  right  way.  In  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
King  Benjamin  declared  (Mos.  4:14,  15): 

And  ye  will  not  suffer  your  children  that  they  go  hungry,  or  naked; 
neither  will  ye  suffer  that  they  transgress  the  laws  of  God,  and  fight  and 
quarrel  one  with  another,  and  serve  the  devil,  who  is  the  master  of  sin,  *  *  * 

But  ye  will  teach  them  to  walk  in  the  ways  of  truth  and  soberness ;  ye 
will  teach  them  to  love  one  another,  and  to  serve  one  another. 

HOME  THE  FOUNDATION  OF  SOCIETY 

The  home  is  the  foundation  of  society,  and  to  the  extent  that  there 
is  a  proper  spiritual  influence  in  the  homes  of  this  people,  depends  the 
right  living  of  the  families  of  the  Church.  Someone  has  said  that  "Home 
is  the  weakest  link  in  the  armor  of  the  American  nation,"  and  a  rather 
prominent  educator  from  the  East,  who  spoke  at  the  commencemenl 
exercises  of  the  University  of  Utah  some  years  ago,  declared  that  "the 
greatest  contributing  factor  to  vice  and  evil  in  America  today  is  the 
average  father  and  mother."  Such  serious  indictments  of  the  average 
family  bring  home  to  us,  particularly,  how  important  it  is  that  no  Latter- 
day  Saint  home  should  be  included  in  such  a  category. 

PREPARATION  FOR  CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 

I  desire  to  appeal  to  every  Latter-day  Saint  parent — father  and 
mother, — to  be  united  with  each  other  and  their  children  in  observing 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel,  in  the  training  of  their  children  to  take 
active  part  in  Church  service,  and  in  seeking  the  Lord  often  in  prayer. 
Can  we  not,  all  as  parents,  teach  our  children  faith  in  the  Lord  and  re- 
pentance from  the  follies  of  youth,  and  prepare  them  to  be  baptized  when 
they  are  eight  years  of  age  ?  Can  we  then  not  continue  to  encourage  them 
in  the  performance  of  their  Church  duties?  Can  we  not  maintain  the 
spirit  of  the  Gospel  in  all  our  homes,  and  imbue  the  hearts  of  our  chil- 
dren with  a  love  of  divine  truth?  The  Church  is  greatly  blessed  in  the 
splendid  service  being  rendered  by  the  various  auxiliary  associations  for 
the  benefit  of  the  children  and  older  members.  These  organizations  are 
and  can  be  of  great  advantage  to  all  Church  members.  But,  at  the  same 
time,  it  must  be  realized  that  parents  cannot  escape  the  responsibility 
that  is  theirs — the  prime  obligation — to  teach  and  train  their  children 
to  have  faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  devotion  to  the  Gospel 
truths,  in  order  to  maintain  thereby  happy,  peaceful,  united  homes. 

AN  ARMY  OF  YOUNG  PEOPLE 

It  would  appear  that  the  number  of  young  people  in  the  stakes  of 
Zion  under  the  age  of  twenty-one  years  approximates  one-third  of  a 
million  souls.  What  an  army  of  splendid  young  men  and  women  this  is, 
and  what  a  challenge  to  all  the  parents  in  all  the  stakes  of  Zion  to  ex- 
emplify the  high  standards  of  the  Church,  and  to  train  their  children 
in  faith  and  righteousness  ! 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


85 


TRAINING  OF  CHILDREN 

The  correct  training  of  children  is  of  fundamental  importance  to 
the  child  and  to  the  happiness  and  peace  of  the  parents.  From  its  in- 
fancy up  every  child  is  entitled  to  the  love  and  spiritual  care  which  it 
deserves  and  which  will  establish  it  in  faith  and  confidence  in  the  Lord 
and  in  his  purposes.  As  every  boy  and  girl  approaches  eight  years  of 
age,  they  should  be  taught  clearly  and  lovingly  the  atonement  of  the 
Savior  for  us  all,  and  the  first  principles  of  the  Gospel.  This  spiritual 
development  should  be  carefully  and  wisely  continued.  Every  young 
person  should  be  encouraged  to  take  part  in  the  various  Church  activities. 
They  should  learn  the  value  of  prayer  and  of  faith  and  the  blessings 
which  follow.  It  is  a  splendid  practice  for  families  to  discuss  Gospel 
principles  and  the  application  of  the  same  in  the  lives  of  family  mem- 
bers. They  should  be  encouraged  to  read  the  Standard  Church  Works 
and  to  discuss  incidents  in  ancient  scripture  and  in  Church  history.  They 
should  learn  the  importance  of  gaining  a  spiritual  testimony  of  the  di- 
vinity of  the  Gospel  restoration,  and  realize  that  such  testimonies  come 
through  living  the  Gospel  principles  and  observing  the  commandments 
of  the  Lord. 

HEALTH  TRAINING 

In  like  manner,  everyone  of  the  family  in  childhood  and  in  their 
growth  to  man  or  womanhood  should  be  taught  principles  of  health,  and 
learn  to  observe  health  habits.  They  should  be  shown  how  much  better 
and  finer  they  will  be  through  resisting  the  use  of  narcotics  and  stimu- 
lants. They  must  learn  to  differentiate  between  false,  misleading  ad- 
vertising of  stimulants  and  narcotics,  and  true  statements.  No  one  needs 
to  be  misled  by  such  alluring  advertisements  of  cigarettes,  for  example, 
which  are  pictured  as  soothing  and  upbuilding  the  body,  whereas  in  fact 
they  are  destructive  to  health  and  cause  weakening  of  the  vital  forces  of 
the  body.  Yet,  because  of  the  very  extensive  advertising  campaigns 
carried  on  during  the  seven  years  from  1930  to  1937,  the  sale  of  cigar- 
ettes in  this  nation  increased  18^  times.  Young  people  should  be  en- 
couraged to  read  and  study  the  word  of  the  Lord  as  given  in  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  They  should  learn  that  the  control  of  the  physical  appe- 
tites is  one  of  the  greatest  lessons  to  be  learned  and  practiced  in  order  to 
maintain  for  their  welfare  the  high  standards  of  the  Church. 

MORAL  STANDARDS  AND  MENTAL  DEVELOPMENT 

It  is  just  as  vital,  also,  that  every  member  of  the  family  should  be 
shown,  by  precept  and  example,  the  obligation,  for  his  welfare,  to  ob- 
serve high  moral  standards  by  cultivating  clean  thoughts  and  virtuous 
living.  Parents  have  wonderful  opportunities  in  the  home  to  fortify 
their  children  against  unclean  thoughts,  and  to  train  them  to  occupy  their 
minds  with  noble  thoughts  and  good  habits,  to  keep  their  minds  and 
bodies  occupied  with  positive  ideas  and  activities  and  to  put  them  on 
the  way  to  a  life  of  righteousness. 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

The  training  of  the  mind  of  every  child  can  well  justify  the  atten- 
tion of  every  father  and  mother,  even  though  the  education  of  the  child 
is  the  responsibility  of  the  State.  It  is  a  matter  of  excellent  mental  ex- 
ercise to  converse  frequently  with  our  children  on  the  various  courses  of 
study  in  which  they  are  engaged.  It  is  well  to  get  the  viewpoint  of  the 
child  on  all  matters  taught  in  the  schools,  and  to  advise  and  assist  the 
the  child  to  differentiate  between  theory  and  fact,  and  between  prejudice 
and  sound  instruction  on  the  part  of  any  teacher.  Every  young  person 
needs  specific  training  in  all  the  virtues — honesty,  dependability,  confi- 
dence, kindliness,  patience,  self-mastery,  etc. 

DEVELOP  LOCAL  INDUSTRIES 

There  is  another  phase  of  preparation  for  life  of  all  young  people 
that  justifies  careful  attention  on  the  part  of  parents,  and  indirectly  of 
cooperation  on  the  part  of  our  families  in  the  various  communities.  That 
is  the  matter  of  the  economic  welfare  and  progress  of  every  young  per- 
son in  all  our  communities.  It  is  just  as  important  that  every  young 
man  and  woman  shall  receive  specialized  preparation  for  life  in  the 
trades  or  the  professions  as  it  is  that  all  should  be  taught  subjects  for 
their  general  education.  It  has  been  said  that  "the  primary  and  im- 
portant aim  of  education  is  not  character  building,  nor  learning,  nor 
culture,  but  the  development  of  the  power  to  understand,  and  of  the 
knowledge  that  understanding  must  precede  wise  action."  It  is  unfor- 
tunate when  young  people  are  not  given  standard  specialized  training  in 
some  particular  direction  that  will,  in  general,  permit  them  to  secure 
employment  requiring  some  particular  skill  and  knowledge,  instead  of 
having  to  depend  upon  common  labor  or  untrained  employment. 

In  that  connection,  and  in  order  to  provide  greater  opportunities 
for  such  employment,  there  should  be  a  concerted  effort  on  the  part  of 
all  men  and  women  in  the  various  communities,  particularly  in  the  in- 
termountain  territory,  to  unite  in  efforts  to  develop  possible  local  in- 
dustries that  will  employ  local  raw  products  in  the  manufacture  of  com- 
modities that  will  serve  the  immediate  needs  of  the  communities,  and 
permit  the  sale  of  surpluses  elsewhere. 

PATRONIZE  LOCAL  PRODUCTS 

Associated  with  such  undertakings,  and  of  immediate  concern  to 
the  progress  of  these  communities  in  providing  more  local  employment, 
is  the  importance  of  patronizing  to  the  full  the  local  industries  already 
in  operation.  Many  purchases  now  being  made  by  the  housewives  in 
these  states  are  those  from  outside  localities,  whereas,  in  many  instances, 
the  same  products  are  produced  in  our  midst.  If  every  mother  could  re- 
alize that  every  article  locally  produced  will  provide  more  employment 
for  local  young  people  and  will  probably  be  as  wholesome  and  pure  as, 
or  more  so,  than  outside  products,  and  available  at  no  greater  cost,  she 
would  doubtless  be  more  greatly  interested  in  learning  of  all  the  in- 
dustries now  in  operation  locally.    Leaders  in  the  various  communities 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  MERRILL 


87 


should  carefully  consider  every  feasible  means  of  developing  our  re- 
sources in  every  direction,  in  order  to  promote  employment  of  local  peo- 
ple and  avoid,  as  far  as  possible,  the  exodus  of  young  people  to  other 
localities  for  lack  of  work  at  home. 

The  challenge,  then,  is  to  all  parents  in  the  Church  to  lead  their 
children  into  right  thinking,  clean  living,  specialized  training,  and  in  the 
faith  and  testimony  of  the  restored  Gospel ;  and  then  to  sustain  all  worthy 
efforts  put  forth  to  build  up  local  undertakings  for  the  economic  welfare 
of  our  people. 

May  we  sense  and  improve  our  opportunities  and  may  we  strive 
constantly  for  better  temporal  and  spiritual  progress  is  my  prayer  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


A  vocal  solo,  "Holy  City,"  was  sung  by  Byron  Openshaw. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

REASONS  FOR  CHURCH-WIDE  CAMPAIGN 

All  over  the  Church  it  is  known  that  there  is  in  progress  a  Church- 
wide  Campaign  for  the  Non-use  of  Liquor  and  Tobacco.  No  thinking 
person  will  question  the  need  of  this  campaign.  Perhaps  never  in  our 
history  did  "evils  and  designs — exist  in  the  hearts  of  conspiring  men"  to 
induce  the  consumption  of  these  narcotics  to  as  great  an  extent  as  today. 
Subtle  propaganda  was  never  more  widespread,  deceptive,  or  costly. 
In  our  country  alone  cigarette  advertising  during  1937  cost  more  than 
30  million  dollars.  The  result  is  that  cigarette  smoking  was  never  so 
general,  particularly  among  women  and  girls.  And  sad  to  say,  the 
debauchery  of  youth  by  deceptive  marijuana  appears  to  be  growing. 

The  situation  with  respect  to  alcoholic  beverages  is  no  better. 

NEWSPAPERS  VOICE  WARNING  AGAINST  LIQUOR 

A  recent  dispatch  from  Chicago  carried  by  the  public  press,  stated 
"more  time  and  effort  must  be  devoted  to  combatting  the  liquor  problem 
among  youth,  according  to  recommendations  made  to  the  International 
Council  of  Religious  Education  by  a  committee  on  social  issues,  thor- 
oughly aroused  over  the  lethargic  attitude  of  the  people  as  to  prevailing 
conditions  among  our  young  people." 

This  statement  recalls  other  news  items  that  appeared  a  few  weeks 
ago.  An  investigation  conducted  by  Allied  Youth,  Incorporated,  found 
that  49  per  cent  of  4,000  high  school  seniors  in  eleven  different  states 
were  drinkers.  Further,  the  American  Youth  Commission  of  the  Amer- 
ican Council  on  Education  found  that  52.9  per  cent  of  13,528  young 
people  questioned  in  Maryland,  used  liquor  in  various  forms. 

The  Christian  Science  Monitor  recently  published  an  informative 
article  on  the  liquor  situation  from  which  the  following  are  extracts : 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

Recapitulation  of  the  evidence  for  and  against  the  liquor  industry  in 
the  last  five  years  leads  inevitably  to  the  question:  "Was  repeal  worth  it?" 
"He  who  runs  may  read." 

One  argument  for  repeal  of  prohibition  was :  "Legal  control  of  liquor 
selling  will  result  in  moderation."  Beer  consumption  rose  from  32,000,000 
barrels  in  1934  to  56,000,000  in  1937 ;  wine  consumption  from  45,000,000 
gallons  in  1935  to  66,000,000  in  1937,  and  tax-paid  withdrawals  of  distilled 
spirits  from  58,000,000  gallons  in  1935  to  87,000,000  gallons  in  1937. 

The  saloon,  it  was  said,  would  not  return.  But  drinking  places,  however 
designated,  have  quadrupled  in  number. 

Has  respect  for  law  been  restored  by  repeal  ?  J.  Edgar  Hoover,  head 
of  the  Federal  Bureau  of  Investigation,  reports  prison  populations  at  an 
all-time  high  and  crime  on  the  increase.  Was  bootlegging  wiped  out?  In 
1938  Federal  Agents  arrested  26,000  on  bootlegging  charges  and  destroyed 
11,400  illegal  stills.  In  the  "wettest  city  of  the  United  States"  huge  bootleg 
rings  have  been  uncovered. 

Recently-retired  United  States  Attorney  General,  Homer  S.  Cum-' 
mings,  in  his  report  to  Congress  last  spring  stated  "that  there  were  more 
liquor  law  violations  in  America  last  year  than  ever  before  in  our  history." 

From  press  news  we  learn  that  last  May,  19  people  were  indicted  in 
what  was  called  the  biggest  bootleg  ring  ever  uncovered  in  the  State  of 
New  Jersey.  Last  June  reports  stated  a  bootleg  ring  was  operating  in 
Chicago  greater  than  the  Al  Capone  syndicate  of  prohibition  days  and 
doing  a  two-hundred-million-dollar-a-year  business.  The  first  of  last 
August,  106  people  were  indicted  by  a  federal  grand  jury  in  New  York 
for  operating  what  was  called  the  biggest  bootleg  ring  in  the  history 
of  the  nation. 

This  story  of  law  violation  and  debauchery  by  liquor  gangs  could  be 
long  continued,  but  enough  said  about  it  except  to  note  the  claim  that 
there  is  but  little  of  it  in  this  state.  However,  during  1938  the  federal 
office  sold  194  permits  to  handle  distilled  liquors,  of  which  the  state 
bought  only  94.  And  the  state  is  the  only  legal  dispenser  of  distilled 
liquors  in  this  state.  Why  did  the  other  one  hundred  persons  buy 
permits  except  to  avoid  running  afoul  of  the  federal  government  in  their 
illegal  traffic  in  liquor  ? 

The  United  States  Daily  News  stated  that  persons  killed  or  injured 
on  the  highways  by  drinking  drivers  doubled  between  1933  and  1937. 
Convictions  for  drunken  driving  have  now  become  matters  of  almost  daily 
announcement  in  the  public  press. 

The  January,  1939  issue  of  the  Journal  of  American  Insurance 
carried  a  leading  article  under  the  title  "Alcohol  Held  Major  Accident 
Cause,"  in  which  the  results  of  some  capful  researches  were  published. 

DANGER  FROM  INTOXICATED  DRIVERS 

Would  not  one  of  the  most  effective  means  of  securing  highway 
safety  be  the  elimination  of  the  drinking  driver  ?  We  hear  much  these 
days  about  personal  liberty,  especially  when  measures  to  control  the 
liquor  traffic  are  being  considered.  But  I  maintain  no  drinking  driver 
should  be  allowed  on  the  public  highways.  The  danger  to  life,  limb  and 
property  is  too  great  for  this. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


89 


OPINION  OF  UNITED  STATES  SENATOR 


I  make  two  quotations  from  an  address  in  the  United  States  Senate 
delivered  by  Hon.  Morris  Sheppard  January  16,  1939.   The  first  is  this : 

As  we  observe  the  gathering  concern  over  conditions  now  surrounding 
the  consumption  of  alcoholic  liquors  it  becomes  apparent  that  the  so-called 
laws  following  repeal  have  failed  either  to  control  the  traffic  or  to  promote 
temperance. 

The  second  is  as  follows : 

It  will  never  be  possible  to  drink  alcohol  with  physical  safety.  Alcohol 
is  not  by  nature  intended  for  beverage  use.  Its  chemical  properties  and 
attributes  are  destructive  of  living  tissue ;  and  you  cannot  change  human 
tissue  to  give  it  immunity  from  such  destruction.  *  *  *  In  the  interest  of 
a  higher  and  more  efficient  civilization  beverage  alcohol  *  *  *  must  be 
destroyed. 

This  we  are  now  attempting  to  do  in  the  Church  by  education. 
Abstinence  is  the  simplest  and  most  effective  way  of  banishing  all  the 
evils  of  alcoholic  beverages.  But  we  certainly  favor  the  strict  enforcement 
of  all  laws  and  regulations  for  the  sale  and  consumption  of  these 
beverages. 


Many  times  from  this  stand  President  Grant  has  urged  the  full  ob- 
servance of  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  basing  his  sermons  on  moral,  spiritual 
and  economic  grounds.  A  few  figures  may  be  impressive.  From  official 
sources  it  was  learned  that  there  was  paid  in  Utah  during  1938 : 


If  to  this  large  sum  we  would  add  the  amounts  paid  for  cigars  and 
tobacco  in  other  forms  than  package  cigarettes,  for  bootleg  liquor  and  for 
tea  and  coffee,  we  would  undoubtedly  obtain  a  sum  in  excess  of  thirteen 
million  dollars,  or  an  average  of  about  $24  for  every  man,  woman  and 
child  in  the  state. 

Of  course,  members  of  the  Church  in  Utah  did  not  pay  all  of  this 
money.  Travelers  and  non-Mormons  paid  much  of  it.  flow  much,  no 
one  knows.  But  it  is  a  fact  that  however  little  our  people  paid  the  amount 
was  larger  than  it  should  have  been. 

Now,  it  is  only  fair  to  say  that  though  the  per  capita  consumption  of 
liquor  in  Utah  is  entirely  too  large  it  is  less  than  that  in  any  other  state 
west  of  the  Missouri  river.  Surely  this  is  due  to  abstinence  among  the 
Mormon  people.  Iowa,  New  Hampshire  and  Vermont  drink  less  per 
capita  than  Utah,  but  they  are  not  tourist  states. 


COST  OF  LIQUOR  AND  TOBACCO 


for  legally  sold  distilled  liquors 

for  legally  sold  beer  

and  for  package  cigarettes  .... 


$  3,938,565.75 
3,959,922.30 
2,673,656.65 


Total 


$10,572,144.70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


SUBTLE  PROPAGANDA 


There  is  a  phase  of  liquor  and  cigarette  propaganda  that  is  especially 
dangerous  because  its  objective  is  to  popularize  these  poisons  among  the 
socially  ambitious.  To  this  end  apparently  no  expense  is  spared,  no 
deception  too  false  to  be  used.  Young  people  are  inviegled  into  believing 
that  social  success  depends  on  the  adroit  use  of  the  cigarette  or  the 
liveliness  flowing  from  cocktails.  If  indulgence  in  cigarettes  and  cock- 
tails can  be  made  popular  in  any  elite  group  or  situation,  temptation  will 
be  particularly  strong  for  non-users  in  the  group.  For  this  reason 
L.  D.  S.  parents  should  be  especially  solicitous  about  the  character  of  the 
social  groups  with  which  their  young  people  desire  to  become  affiliated 
on  school  campuses  and  elsewhere.  No  amount  of  so-called  social  popu- 
larity can  ever  be  weighed  against  moral  and  spiritual  integrity.  The 
former  has  fleeting,  the  latter  enduring  value.  No  success  secured  at  the 
expense  of  honor  and  integrity  can  ever  be  permanent.  These  facts  should 
be  burned  into  the  consciousness  of  all  our  young  people.  Who  among 
us  is  gifted  enough  to  make  it  "smart"  to  say  "no"  in  the  hour  of  tempta- 
tion ?   Let  him  step  forth.  His  services  are  needed. 


The  waves  of  cigarette  and  cocktail  indulgences  flowing  in  upon  us 
are  as  a  call  to  energetic  and  persistent  action  of  all  friends  of  the  moral 
purity  and  the  physical,  intellectual  and  spiritual  vigor  of  our  young 
people.  I  am  happy  to  announce  that  one  means  to  this  end  was  the 
unanimous  passage  by  the  recent  Utah  legislature  of  two  bills,  one 
directing  the  public  schools  of  this  state  to  teach  the  truth  about  the  evil 
and  harmful  effects  of  liquor,  tobacco  and  other  narcotics ;  and  the  other 
directing  the  schools  to  become  positive  factors  in  character  education. 
We  suggest  that  all  school  patrons  maintain  a  constant  interest  in  helping 
the  schools  to  the  full  observance  of  these  two  excellent  laws,  said  by 
competent  authority  to  be  the  best  of  their  kind  in  the  United  States.  But 
their  value  will  be  in  their  fruits  rather  than  in  their  enactment  only. 
The  enactment  of  a  national  prohibition  law  in  1920  did  not  make  the 
country  dry.  Prohibitionists  largely  went  to  sleep,  forgetting  that  law 
does  not  enforce  itself. 

Excellent  as  these  laws  are,  until  enacted  in  other  states,  they  will 
apply  to  Utah  only.  But  our  campaign  is  Church-wide.  While  it  will 
be  our  purpose  to  encourage  the  schools  in  anti-narcotic  and  character 
education,  we  have  a  program  of  our  own  that  we  earnestly  solicit  all 
Mormon  people  to  help  make  effective. 


We  have  issued  three  little  booklets  that  tell  the  truth  in  a  plain 
interesting  way  why  liquor  and  tobacco  "are  not  good  for  man."  The 
Lord  did  not  say  why  when  he  revealed  the  Word  of  Wisdom  106  years 
ago,  but  he  gave  man  the  intelligence  to  find  out.    And  man  has  done 


BILLS  PASSED  BY  LEGISLATURE 


BOOKLETS  ISSUED  BY  CHURCH  COMMITTEE 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


91 


it.  Two  of  the  booklets  give  the  facts  upon  which  authorities  agree. 
The  other  booklet  is  a  powerful  and  convincing  testimony  of  the  value 
of  abstinence. 

The  objective  of  the  first  phase  of  the  campaign  is  to  get  these  book- 
lets read  and  discussed  by  all  over  ten  years  of  age  in  every  Mormon 
home.  And  we  are  asking  that  this  be  done  during  this  spring.  This 
done,  we  shall  enter  upon  the  next  phase  of  the  campaign  which  will  be 
confined  largely  to  youth.  Zion  will  be  free  of  narcotic  evils  when 
all  its  youth  shall  be  so  instructed  and  motivated  that  they  will  never 
touch  narcotics. 

ASSISTANCE  NEEDED 

To  secure  this  end  we  must  have  the  help  of  all  mature  people  in  the 
Church.  This  is  why  all  need  to  read  the  booklets  in  order  that  they 
may  be  informed  and  able  to  answer  the  quest  of  youth  for  reasons  why. 
This  is  a  questioning  age,  made  so  by  the  teaching  of  all  the  schools.  But 
we  do  not  object  to  questions.  The  Prophet  taught  that  we  cannot  be 
saved  in  ignorance.  The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence.  We  are  spirit 
children  of  the  Father  and  possess  in  embryo  his  attributes.  It  is  our 
duty  to  grow  in  intelligence,  knowledge,  understanding,  power  and  wis- 
dom. There  is  no  excuse  in  this  day  for  any  normal  adult  being  ignorant 
of  why  liquor  and  tobacco  are  not  good  for  man.  Our  campaign  for 
their  non-use  rests  upon  an  adequate  knowledge  of  their  harmful  effects. 

And  this  knowledge  will  certainly  increase  our  faith  in  the  divinity 
of  the  Lord's  great  law  of  health.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  is  it  not  a  lack 
of  faith  that  makes  this  campaign  necessary?  No  Latter-day  Saint 
whose  faith  reaches  perfect  assurance  will  ever  partake  of  things  pro- 
hibited by  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

And  this  leads  me  to  utter  a  word  of  caution.  There  are  some  of 
our  people  who  use  liquor  and  tobacco,  one  or  both.  Do  not  think  of  them 
or  treat  them  as  bad.  Most  of  them  at  least  are  good  neighbors  and 
upright  citizens,  our  relatives,  people  of  our  own  blood.  They  have 
become  ifidulgents  for  one  or  more  of  many  reasons,  largely  due  to 
circumstances  and  environments.  And  all  of  us  are  influenced  more 
or  less  by  these  factors. 

In  the  main  this  campaign  will  reach  them  only  outside  of  meeting- 
houses and  the  congregations  of  the  Saints.  But  to  be  complete  it  must 
reach  them.  But  in  all  cases  let  this  be  done  in  a  spirit  of  love  and 
helpfulness,  never  in  criticism  or  condemnation.  Contacts  can  succeed 
in  their  purpose  only  if  tactfully  made.  Hence  workers  going  to  these 
people  should  be  sympathetic,  discreet  and  wise,  never  offensive.  But 
let  us  make  sure  that  all  of  them  are  contacted  and  induced  to  read  the 
booklets. 

OBLIGATION  RESTS  UPON  CHURCH 

But  why  worry  ?  some  among  us  ask.  Are  not  drinking  and  smoking 
personal  matters,  and  do  we  not  live  in  a  free  country?   The  Church 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

has  always  had  its  critics  both  within  and  without  its  membership.  Now 
the  Church  has  a  major  obligation  that  it  can  never  escape — that  of 
preaching  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  of  doing  missionary  work.  Whether  we 
will  or  not,  we  are  our  brother's  keeper.  We  must  be  active  in  the  work 
of  saving  human  souls,  the  most  precious  entities  in  the  universe. 

The  use  of  liquor  and  tobacco  handicaps  human  beings,  physically, 
mentally  and  spiritually.  Knowing  this  we  cannot  escape  the  obligation, 
divinely  given,  of  working  for  the  non-use  of  these  poisons.  But  I 
repeat,  let  us  be  careful  of  our  methods,  else  our  labors  may  do  more 
harm  than  good.  Let  love  permeate  all  our  acts  and  wisdom  characterize 
all  our  efforts. 

I  have  asked  before  and  I  ask  again — is  not  the  cigarette  the  greatest 
faith-killer  in  the  Church  today  ?  When  we  are  free  of  its  use  we  shall  be 
free  of  other  evils  also.  Faith  will  then  be  more  abundant  and  its  fruits 
much  more  plentiful. 

Let  us  unite  in  prayer,  and  good  works  to  make  ourselves  more 
worthy  of  a  greater  amount  of  God's  help  in  overcoming  evil  and  building 
up  his  kingdom,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  want  to  talk  to  you  today  about  a  very  old  subject.  It  is  about  there 
1  eing  inherent  in  religion,  principles,  through  the  general  adoption  of 
which,  men  could  live  together  in  the  world  in  peace  and  order. 

BELIEF  IN  GOD  THE  BASIS  OF  RELIGION 

Among  them  I  must  give  first  place  to  belief  in  a  higher  power  for 
that  is  the  basis  upon  which  all  religion  rests.  At  any  rate  that  is  true 
of  our  own. 

The  first  statement  in  our  declaration  of  principles  is,  "We  believe 
in  God  the  Eternal  Father."  That  belief  is  the  root  from  which  all  our 
other  tenets  spring  and  draw  their  nourishment.  It  is  the  life-giving 
element  of  our  religion.  In  it  all  the  precepts  of  the  Church,  which  give 
to  man  the  assurance  of  a  high  destiny  and  help  to  steady  his  faltering 
steps  as  he  journeys  over  life's  troubled  way,  find  their  sanction. 

From  it  all  Christian  faith  must  draw  its  sustenance,  for  it  is  at  the 
heart  of  all  that  Jesus  taught.  In  plain  words  he  declared  that  he 
came  from  the  Father  and  would  go  again  to  the  Father ;  that  the  only 
purpose  of  his  coming  was  to  do  the  Father's  will.  It  was  to  those  who 
believe  in  the  Father  who  had  sent  him  that  he  promised  everlasting 
life.  His  disciples  were  commissioned  to  baptize  believers  in  the  name 
of  the  Father,  whose  will  he  declared  it  to  be  that  he  should  lose  nothing 
of  all  that  was  given  him  but  that  all  should  be  raised  up  at  the  last  day. 
He  said  that  he  was  come  in  the  Father's  name,  and  because  he  told  the 
rulers  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God,  they  sought  to  take  his  life.  He 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


93 


purported  to  do  only  that  which  he  had  seen  his  Father  do.  In  the 
supreme  undertakings  of  his  life  he  sought  the  Father  as  the  source  of 
power,  and  when  he  succeeded  he  "lifted  up  his  eyes  and  said,  Father, 
I  thank  thee  that  thou  hast  heard  me."  He  specifically  taught  men  to 
pray  to  the  Father,  and  the  last  words  to  issue  from  his  lips  as  he 
expired  upon  the  cross  were :  "Father,  into  thy  hands  I  commend  my 
spirit."  There  can  be  no  doubt  that  he  made  the  reality  and  the  directive 
authority  of  God  the  Father  the  central  theme  of  his  teaching.  For 
Christians,  purporting  as  they  do  to  be  disciples  of  Christ,  there  is  no 
escape ;  they  must  believe  in  God  who  is  the  Eternal  Father,  for  to  deny 
him  is  to  cast  out  Jesus  whom  they  profess  to  follow. 

ANOTHER  BASIC  PRINCIPLE 

We  come  then  to  our  second  basic  principle,  namely,  belief  in  Jesus 
as  the  Son  of  God,  which  flows  of  necessity  out  of  belief  in  his  teachings 
about  the  Father.  There  are,  to  be  sure,  many  who  recognize  a  great 
value  in  his  moral  teachings,  the  acceptance  of  which  as  ideals  of 
conduct,  they  say,  constitutes  them  believers  in  and  followers  of  him  and 
therefore  Christians,  without  accepting  his  claims  to  Messiahship  or 
ascribing  to  him  the  attributes  of  divinity.  I  presume  most  such  would 
also  exclude  his  teachings  about  God  from  their  system  of  faith.  For 
them  the  life  and  teachings  of  Jesus  exemplify  the  finest  qualities  and 
the  highest  ideals  of  conduct  yet  discovered  to  man.  These  they  do  not 
want  to  give  up  but  would  preserve  as  affording  the  safest  guides  to  that 
kind  of  individual  and  collective  conduct  upon  which  the  future  well- 
being  of  the  race  depends. 

Civilized  beings,  for  instance,  do  not  want  to  relinquish  the  distinctly 
Christian  concept  of  the  brotherhood  of  man  for  they  know  that  in 
the  development  and  expansion  of  that  ideal  lies  the  hope  of  humanity 
for  an  ordered  world.  But  this  at  once  involves  difficulty  again,  for  the 
brotherhood  of  man  implies  the  fatherhood  of  God.  Thus  his  very 
doctrine  which  by  universal  consent  has  in  it  the  power  to  save  our  human 
society  derives  out  of  his  teachings  about  God  as  the  Eternal  Father. 

After  that  the  great  theme  of  his  message  to  man  is  immortality  and 
the  coming  of  the  Kingdom  of  God,  which  are  the  next  basic  tenets  to 
which  I  refer.  All  the  rest  consists  in  laying  out  the  body  of  principles 
by  the  adoption  of  which  man  may  fit  himself  to  live  eternally  in  that 
Kingdom.  The  record  says  that  he  "went  about  all  Galilee,  teaching  in 
their  synagogues  and  preaching  the  gospel  of  the  Kingdom  *  *  *."  And 
when  they  would  have  detained  him  in  Capernaum,  he  reminded  them 
that  he  "must  preach  the  Kingdom  of  God  in  other  cities  also."  He 
commissioned  his  disciples  "and  sent  them  to  preach  the  Kingdom  of 
God,"  of  which  he  declared  "there  shall  be  no  end." 

Strip  his  words  of  all  declarations  and  assumptions  about  the 
Father  and  his  own  Sonship,  and  about  immortality  and  the  Kingdom 
of  God,  and  you  have  robbed  them  of  their  vitalizing  force ;  they  lose  at 
once  most  of  their  influence  over  the  lives  of  men.  It  becomes  apparent 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  7  Second  Day 

that  it  is  not  easy  to  deny  God  and  at  the  same  time  to  cling  to  Jesus 
for  any  purpose,  for  it  is  the  majesty  of  divine  authority  with  which  he 
invested  them  that  imparts  to  his  moral  teachings  their  singular  power. 
There  is  no  other  explanation  of  his  so  good  as  the  one  he  gives  of 
himself. 

The  present  day  test  of  the  validity  of  any  claim  is,  "does  it  work?" 
That  is  but  the  modern  equivalent  of  the  test  to  which  Jesus  submitted 
his  teaching.  "If  any  man,"  said  he,  "will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know 
of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 

There  is  much  testimonial  evidence  that  the  teaching  stands  the  test. 

Christ's  teachings  a  stabilizing  force 

I  name  these  great  foundation  principles  of  religious  faith  as  among 
the  forces  that  could  bring  order  and  tranquility  into  the  collective  life  of 
mankind,  because  they  are  the  greatest  stabilizing  forces  known  to  human 
experience.  And  stability,  enduring  steadfastness,  assurance  that  the 
foundation  will  always  be  there,  are  indispensable  to  the  orderly  existence 
of  the  human  family  in  its  manifold  relations. 

From  man's  belief  in  God  and  in  his  own  immortal  life  and  in  the 
Kingdom  of  God  has  come  his  greatest  hope.  Out  of  it  has  sprung  his 
highest  aspirations.  Above  all  else  it  has  sustained  him  in  his  often  times 
disheartening  struggle  to  give  righteousness  supremacy  over  evil  in  the 
world.  Its  widespread  decline  has  ever  been  the  precursor  of  spiritual 
decay  and  moral  degeneracy — the  sure  heralds  of  national  disaster.  Ac- 
ceptance, on  the  other  hand,  of  the  teachings  of  Jesus  about  divinity,  his 
Sonship  with  God  and  his  brotherhood  with  man  gives  to  human  life  its 
largest  value,  clothes  man  with  his  highest  dignity  and  provides  him 
his  most  powerful  stimulus  to  noble  living. 

JESUS  AS  A  TEACHER 

It  was  about  these  beliefs  as  a  framework  that  Jesus  wove  the  whole 
fabric  of  his  moral  teachings.  He  unfolded  them  in  the  form  of  lessons, 
here  a  little  and  there  a  little,  as  called  forth  during  the  years  of  his 
ministry  among  men.  They  are  rules  of  behavior.  He  called  them 
commandments  and  he  said  that  they  came  from  God. 

While  he  dealt  with  an  unseen  spiritual  world,  where  he  said 
his  kingdom  is,  yet  his  teachings  are  for  men  in  this  world.  According 
to  them  life  here  is  not  and  cannot  be  separated  by  any  wide  or  deep 
chasm  from  eternal  life,  for  the  life  of  the  individual  is  only  one  life — • 
a  unit — in  which  mortality  and  immortality  are  but  stages  in  a  continuous 
course  of  progress.  The  experiences,  the  masteries,  the  attainments,  the 
manner  of  dealing  with  the  hard  facts  of  existence  as  they  are  met  on 
the  way  accompany  life  from  stage  to  stage,  make  it  what  it  is,  give  it  its 
quality  and  tone,  determine  at  every  stage  the  degree  of  its  perfection,  and 
its  capacity  for  entering  finally  into  the  life  of  the  Kingdom. 

A  GUIDE  TO  UFE 

Certain  things  man  has  to  do.   Not  much  stress  is  laid  upon  knowl- 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


95 


edge  but  much  upon  understanding  and  habits  of  virtue  and  the  cultiva- 
tion of  a  brotherly  good  will  towards  all  mankind.  He  is  taught  that  as 
in  dealing  with  his  f  ellowmen  he  extends  kindness,  shows  mercy,  observes 
justice,  practices  self-denial,  curbs  ambition,  denies  greed,  bestows  love, 
banishes  hate,  gives  succor,  lives  humbly,  reveres  right  and  respects  the 
sacredness  of  human  beings,  he  is  contributing  to  the  establishment  of 
peace  and  good  order  and  happiness  in  the  world  and  is  cultivating  in 
himself  those  qualities  of  virtue  which  will  raise  him  toward  the  level 
of  his  high  destiny. 

These  conceptions  have  tremendous  power  to  stabilize  a  life  that  is 
guided  by  them.  They  also  are  among  the  principles  of  religion  which 
I  referred  to  as  laying  down  the  conditions  of  living,  the  adoption  of 
which  would  bring  order  out  of  the  chaos  which  now  threatens  to  engulf 
the  nations.  I  venture  the  assertion  that  harmony  among  men  will  not 
come,  except  as,  and  to  the  degree  in  which,  they  individually  and  col- 
lectively exemplify  these  principles  in  their  lives. 

The  qualities  named,  it  is  to  be  observed,  are  not  physical  in  the 
sense  that  they  admit  of  capture  and  dissection.  They  may  not  be 
segregated  and  looked  at  or  weighed  or  measured.  They  are,  however, 
none  the  less  realities,  as  much  so  as  the  solidest  objects  of  the  physical 
world.  Their  existence  may  be  as  unerringly  discerned.  They  shine 
forth  in  the  deeds  of  those  who  possess  them.  They  and  others  akin  to 
them  are  the  emanations  of  the  spirit  and  are  the  most  powerful  forces 
in  the  universe. 

SPIRITUAL  REGENERATION  WILL  COME  THROUGH  FAITH 

This  mankind  is  beginning  to  sense.  Now  as  never  before  in  our 
time  comes  the  call  for  spiritual  regeneration.  The  very  existence  of 
our  most  cherished  institutions  is  dependent  upon  it.  In  default  of  it 
the  world  is  like  to  lose  the  gains  of  centuries  of  painful  struggle  upward 
out  of  the  mist  and  to  sink  down  again  into  the  dark  night  of  barbarism. 
The  call  is  for  those  principles  of  religion  enunciated  by  Jesus  as  the 
means  of  bringing  back  sanity  to  a  world  gone  mad.  No  thoughtful  man 
can  be  deaf  to  the  cry  of  despair  that  is  heard  in  the  land.  Let  me  cite 
you  one  from  among  many  available  illustrations. 

On  Armistice  Day  of  last  year  a  group  from  among  the  most  eminent 
statesmen  of  England  issued  an  address  to  the  people  of  the  realm  in 
which,  among  other  things  they  said : 

Moral  rearmament  must  be  the  foundation  of  national  life  as  it  must 
be  of  any  world  settlement.  The  miracle  of  God's  living  spirit  can  break 
the  power  of  pride  and  selfishness ;  of  lust,  fear  and  hatred,  for  spiritual 
power  is  the  greatest  force  in  the  world. 

There  are  among  all  peoples  today  hidden  resources  of  heart,  mind  and 
spirit  waiting  to  be  called  out  by  common  obedience  to  the  supreme  plan. 
Only  in  the  fulfilment  of  this  supreme  plan  can  the  true  interests  of  all 
classes,  races  and  states  be  secured. 

Throughout  her  long  history  this  country  never  failed,  and  has  not 
failed  now  to  meet  recurrent  crises  with  the  courage  which  each  demanded  , 
but  a  spiritual  crisis  remains  and  calls  for  action.    The  nation  and  the 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  7  Second  Day 

empire  must  stand  or  fall  by  our  response  to  that  call.  The  choice  is  moral 
rearmament  or  national  decay.  That  choice  will  decide  whether  ours  is 
ultimately  to  go  the  way  of  the  other  dead  kingdoms  or  whether  our  com- 
monwealth led  by  God  may  become  a  leader  of  the  world  towards  sanity 
and  peace. 

THE  TRIUMPH  OF  RIGHT 

Cloudy  as  the  skies  may  be,  I  am  not  one  of  those  who  despair  for 
I  believe  in  the  triumph  of  right.  In  its  consummation  a  leading  role 
must  be  played  by  the  Church,  one  of  whose  prime  functions  it  is  to 
transmute  religious  truths  into  living  practices.  The  teachings  of  those 
truths  and  habits  of  practice  becomes  then  the  highest  and  most  solemn 
duty  of  every  person  in  the  Church,  and  above  all,  of  all  those  to  whom  the 
responsibility  of  leadership,  in  whatever  capacity,  has  come,  for  therein 
lies  not  only  the  hope  for  eternity,  but  the  hope  of  the  world  for  stability 
and  safety,  here  and  now. 

This  pronouncement  comes  from  men  of  high  intelligence  and  wide 
learning  and  deep  penetration  and  ripe  experience  in  the  affairs  of  men 
and  of  nations.  They  have  read  the  lesson  of  history  and  know  that  the 
decline  of  great  nations  has  generally  followed  and  been  primarily  due 
to  moral  disintegration. 

As  Abraham  Lincoln  at  Gettysburg  called  upon  his  countrymen  to 
resolve  that  this  nation  under  God  should  have  a  new  birth  of  freedom, 
so  these  spokesmen  of  the  British  Empire  have  sounded  a  clarion  call 
for  spiritual  and  moral  regeneration  as  the  only  means  by  which  under 
God  it  can  be  saved  from  the  limbo  of  dead  kingdoms.  That  call  is  not 
for  Britain  alone  but  is  for  all  nations  and  all  people  who  love  justice  and 
desire  to  see  her  enthroned. 

ELDER  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  don't  think  ever  before  have  I  envied  the  presidents  of  the  missions 
until  this  Conference.  If  you  have  noticed,  yesterday  and  today,  most 
of  them  had  ten  minutes  notice  before  they  were  called  on.  This  suspense 
sometimes  is  terrible. 

I  heard  of  a  good  old  lady  once  who  was  waiting  for  some  news, 
either  good  or  bad,  she  didn't  know  which,  and  when  it  finally  came  she 
said :  "I  do  hate  to  be  held  in  suspension."  I  want  you  to  know  that  this 
good  old  lady  had.  no  monopoly  on  the  feelings  that  come  from  one  being 
held  in  "suspension." 

If  ever  I  feel  the  sacredness  of  an  opening  prayer,  praying  for  those 
who  would  be  called  upon  to  speak,  it  is  on  these  occasions,  and  I  cer- 
tainly trust  that  the  prayer  offered  today  may  reach  the  realms  on  high 
and  be  effective  in  my  behalf. 

AN  EXPRESSION  OF  APPRECIATION 

I,  for  one,  right  here,  lest  I  forget,  want  to  follow  the  suggestion  of 
Bishop  Wirthlin — I  do  want  to  express  my  appreciation  for  my  affilia- 


ELDER  MARVIN  0.  ASHTON 


97 


tion,  not  only  with  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church,  the  Apostles,  the 
Seventies,  and  others  of  the  Authorities  of  the  Church,  but  I  desire  to 
express  the  appreciation  I  hold  for  you  fine  bishops,  you  fine  presidents 
of  stakes,  and  not  forgetting  the  members  in  general,  that  we  contact  as  we 
go  about.  I  do  appreciate  them,  and  I  appreciate  the  sustaining  power 
and  influence  that  they  give  us  as  we  travel  around. 

As  far  as  I  am  individually  concerned,  many  things  influence  me 
and  my  testimony  of  the  truthfulness  of  this  Gospel,  but  there  is  nothing 
that  stands  higher,  or  that  I  consider  more  important  than  the  lives  of 
you  fine  people,  because,  after  all,  "the  test  of  the  pudding  is  in  the 
eating."  If  the  Gospel  hasn't  made  such  characters,  good-by  to  the  Gos- 
pel. I  do  want  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  appreciation.  More 
every  day  do  I  appreciate  these  things. 

WHAT  OF  OUR  REAL  ACCOMPLISHMENTS? 

I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  things  that  we  are  accomplishing  in  this 
Church.  I  would  not  want  to  be  understood  to  think  otherwise.  I  be- 
lieve we  have  taken  a  stride,  a  rapid  stride.  Before  we  get  through,  the 
eyes  of  the  world  will  be  consistently  upon  us,  to  the  extent  that  they 
will  see  that  we  really  have  accomplished  something,  and  in  a  big  way,  too. 

What  does  concern  me  sometimes  is :  Are  we  going  just  as  fast  as 
we  ought  to,  and  are  we  accomplishing  just  what  we  ought  to  ?  Are  we 
really,  if  you  please,  getting  our  toes  in  the  ground  as  we  ought,  in  every 
way  we  can,  to  accomplish  what  is  ahead  of  us  ? 

There  is  an  expression  they  call  "ancestral  pride."  I  wonder  if  it 
hurts  you,  I  wonder  if  it  hurts  me.  I  know  what  it  did  to  the  ancient 
Hebrews.  Just  what  is  it  doing  to  you  ?  Do  you  stop  still  because  you 
stand  by  to  see  what  those  before  you  accomplished  ?  One  man  has  said 
that,  "Ancestral  pride  is  backing  up  to  go  forward."  The  other  day,  in 
Los  Angeles  station,  I  was  waiting  for  the  train  to  start.  I  couldn't  see 
the  trees  overhead.  I  couldn't  see  the  tracks  below.  All  I  could  see  was 
the  train  at  the  side,  and  all  at  once  I  thought  we  were  starting,  and  soon 
I  thought  we  were  going  at  a  pretty  good  gait.  But  in  about  two  min- 
utes I  changed  my  mind,  because  I  found  that  I  wasn't  moving  at  all,  or 
the  train  I  was  in  wasn't  moving  at  all ;  just  that  train  at  the  side.  Do  we 
sometimes  think  we  are  going  somewhere,  because  we  see  the  activity 
of  something  at  our  side  ?  I  often  think  of  that. 

I  am  wondering  sometimes  if  I  am  too  serious  about  what  my 
grandfathers  accomplished — and  by  the  way,  one  of  them  helped  to  bring 
that  machinery  across  the  plains,  with  one  hundred  yoke  of  oxen,  to  try 
to  attempt  the  manufacture  of  sugar.  I  am  not  unmindful  of  him.  I  am' 
not  unmindful  at  all  of  what  my  father  could  do.  My  father  didn't  have 
much  of  an  education,  but  he  could  build  a  city.  I  am  wondering  just 
how  seriously  we  take  this  thing,  and  how  much  initiative,  really,  we 
have  in  and  of  ourselves.    I  am  sure  it  is  something  to  think  about. 

If  I  have  one  prayer  in  my  heart  more  than  another  it  is  that  I  may 
stand  on  my  own  feet,  and  look  at  this  thing  seriously  and  ask  myself 
the  question:  Well,  just  what  am  I  doing  about  it?    Or-  do  I  sit  in  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


trance  and  see  movement  going  on,  and  kid  myself  that  I  am  moving? 
And  I  think  it  is  the  worst  disease  in  the  world. 


As  has  been  brought  out  this  afternoon,  we  have  some  problems 
ahead  of  us  that  ought  to  make  us  serious.  When  we  are  consuming 
four  dollars  per  capita  for  liquor  in  the  State  anually,  and  in  some  of 
those  villages  or  towns  ninety-eight  per  cent  of  the  people  are  members 
of  the  Church,  it  gives  us  something  to  think  ahout.  When  we  see 
returned  missionaries  wearing  out  the  bottoms  of  their  shoes  in  trying  to 
get  work,  it  is  something  to  think  about.  I  met  a  fellow  yesterday,  a  good 
member  of  the  Church.  I  hadn't  seen  him  for  thirty  years,  and  the 
strange  part  was,  I  recognized  him.  Before  we  got  through  talking  he 
said  this :  "The  reason  that  so  many  people  leave  the  Church,  fine  people 
sometimes,  is  because  of  the  lives  of  our  missionaries ;  the  way  they  fall 
aside."  ,  I  often  think  of  the  expression  of  Shakespeare,  speaking  of 
Cassius,  "When  much  enforced  they  give  a  hasty  spark  and  straightway 
cold  again."  Whose  fault  is  it?  It  is  theirs,  a  lot  of  it,  and  some  of  it  is 
ours. 

When  we  see,  all  over  this  state,  tumble-down  houses,  broken  down 
fences,  and  things  that  are  in  a  terrible  shape,  we  have  something  to 
think  about.  When  we  see  houses  that  were  built  by  the  early  pioneers, 
and  people  still  in  them,  and  they  have  hardly  put  a  shingle  on  the  top  of 
the  roof  since  they  were  originally  built,  we  have  something  to  think 
about.  And  when  we  see  the  unemployment,  it  presents  another  problem 
for  us  to  think  about. 


I  sometimes  wonder  if  we  are  more  interested  in  being  well  groomed 
around  a  mahogany  table  to  pass  on  motions,  than  we  are  interested  in  our 
apparel  being  covered  with  the  dust  of  real  American  initiative.  I  don't 
think  we  read  enough,  but  I  do  wonder  if  we  don't  read  more  than  we 
think, — we  would  rather  read  more  than  we  would  attempt  to  think. 

I  sometimes  think  we  would  rather  go  around  with  a  can-opener 
in  our  pocket  to  split  the  tin,  going  into  the  canned  thoughts  of  some- 
body else,  than  we  would  do  some  honest-to-goodness  real  home  cooking 
in  the  way  of  thinking  for  ourselves. 

I  think  these  are  challenges  to  us.  I  think  we  should  get  down  to  some 
real,  honest-to-goodness,  homespun  initiative,  that  we  should  analyze  con- 
ditions and  see  what  is  the  matter.  Whether  it  be  grammatically  correct 
or  not,  we  should  plunge  into  it,  knowing  we  are  right,  and  pull  the  trigger. 
I  think  that  we  ought  to  put  more  steel  in  the  backbone  of  our  young 
people. 


SOME  PROBLEMS  PRESENTED 


A  PLEA  FOR  MORE  THINKING 


EXPERIENCE  OF  A  FARMER 


I  am  not  forgetting  the  experience  of  that  little  German  back  in  the 
Middle  West,  who  decided  that  he  could  raise  a  better  grade  of  corn.  He 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


99 


fastened  paper  sacks  over  the  tassels  so  that  he  could  control  the  polleni- 
zation  of  that  corn.  He  got  along  fairly  well.  He  almost  wore  himself 
out.  First  the  grasshoppers  came ;  then  the  drought.  His  neighbor  said : 
"Now,  look  out.  You  had  better  water  it,  better  protect  it."  He  said: 
"It  stands  just  as  it  is,  and  we  will  see  if  it  can  take  it."  By  the  time  he 
let  that  corn  "take  it"  from  the  grasshoppers  and  from  the  drought,  he 
had  a  kind  of  corn,  in  1937,  that  just  netted  him  about  five  hundred  thou- 
sand dollars. 

I  pray  that  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  really  see  situations  as  they  are, 
and  to  give  us  the  backbone  to  do  things  as  we  see  they  should  be  done. 
May  he  strengthen  our  testimony,  and  may  we  appreciate  the  leadership 
of  this  Church  more  every  day  of  our  lives,  I  ask  these  blessings  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

The  Nebo  Stake  Choir,  which  has  furnished  the  music  for  this 
session  of  the  Conference,  is  made  up  of  the  choirs  of  the  various 
wards  in  the  Nebo  Stake. 

We  thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  excellent  service  you 
have  rendered  this  inspiring  Conference  throughout  the  day. 

SERVICE  OF  PEACE  OFFICERS  COMMENDED 

You  have  undoubtedly  noticed  the  care  that  the  peace  officers  of 
our  city  are  taking  to  direct  automobile  traffic  and  to  protect  pedestrians. 
The  City  Commission  and  the  peace  officers  will  appreciate  our  coopera- 
tion in  their  efforts  to  avoid  accidents.  In  behalf  of  the  Conference  we 
wish  to  commend  those  officers  who  are  in  and  around  this  block,  who 
are  rendering  such  excellent  service  for  our  comfort  and  safety. 


The  Nebo  Stake  Choir  sang  the  "Hosanna"  anthem,  after  which 
Elder  Peter  J.  Ricks,  President  of  the  Rexburg  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  April  9,  at  10  o'clock. 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  10  o'clock  Sunday 
morning,  April  9. 

A  large  concourse  of  people  crowded  into  the  Tabernacle  far  in 
advance  of  the  time  to  commence  this  meeting,  every  seat  and  available 
space  in  the  large  auditorium  and  galleries,  and  in  the  doorways,  being 
occupied  by  those  who  had  come  from  the  various  sections  of  the  Church. 
The  large  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  also 
crowded  to  capacity,  and  hundreds  of  people  congregated  on  the  Taber- 
nacle grounds,  where,  by  means  of  amplifying  equipment  that  had  been 
installed,  they  listened  to  the  Conference  proceedings  in  the  Tabernacle. 

The  music  for  this  session  was  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  director. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  presided  and  announced  that  the  Choir 
and  congregation  would  join  in  singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee, 

0  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  the  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
Elder  Clarence  E.  Smith,  President  of  the  Bear  River  Stake. 

ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  attention  has  been  called  several  times  during  this  conference 
to  the  prophetic  utterance  of  the  Prophet  Daniel  where  he  said,  speaking 
of  our  day :  "Many  shall  run  to  and  fro,  and  knowledge  shall  be  in- 
creased." I  never  think  of  the  words  of  Daniel  that  I  do  not  have  a 
vision  of  conditions  according  to  the  prophecy  of  Paul :  "Ever  learning 
and  never  able  to  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth." 

KNOWLEDGE  ALONE  WILL  NOT  SAVE 

We  have  heard  much  at  this  conference  in  -relation  to  our  duties 
in  seeking  wisdom  from  the  best  books,  and  faith.  Much  has  been  said 
in  relation  to  our  modem  education,  and  I  wish  to  say  a  few  words 
in  addition  to  what  has  already  been  said.  We  have  been  told  repeatedly 
that  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith:  "The  glory  of  God 
is  intelligence."  And  we  have  also  been  informed  that  he  said :  "A 
man  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance."   But  the  Lord  said  much  more,  and 

1  often  wonder  why,  in  making  these  quotations,  we  do  not  finish  what 
he  said. 

It  is  true  that  the  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  but  the  Lord  also 
added:  "Or  in  other  words,  light  and  truth."  Then  he  added  this: 
"Light  and  truth  f  orsaketh  that  evil  one." 

There  never  was  a  time  I  suppose  in  the  history  of  the  world  when  so 
much  knowledge  was  in  the  possession  of  men.  Surely  knowledge  has 
been  increased,  but  at  the  same  time  the  doctrine  taught  in  this  prophetic 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  101 

saying  by  Paul  is  true,  men  are  ever  learning  but  apparently  never  able  to 
come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  We  have  been  informed  that  it  has 
been  said  that  our  present  system  of  education  has  taken  man  apart; 
it  has  done  more,  it  has  made  a  brute  of  him,  and  given  him  a  brute 
ancestor,  instead  of  placing  him  on  the  platform  as  a  son  of  God,  the  off- 
spring of  God,  where  he  properly  belongs. 

Dr.  Frank  C.  Whitmore,  a  teacher  at  the  Pennsylvania  State  Col- 
lege said :  "Probably  the  biggest  difficulty  with  mankind  at  the  present 
time  is  that  our  knowledge  has  increased  so  much  faster  than  our  wisdom." 

The  Prophet  did  say  that  a  man  cannot  be  saved  in  ignorance,  but 
in  ignorance  of  what  ?  He  said  that  a  man  could  not  be  saved  in  ignorance 
of  the  saving  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Not  many  of  the 
great  and  the  mighty,  those  who  form  and  control  the  thoughts  of  the 
people  of  today,  are  going  to  find  salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  God. 
Why?  Because  they  have  not  found  the  way;  they  are  not  walking  in 
the  light  of  truth.  They  may  have  knowledge,  but  they  lack  intelligence. 
Intelligence  is  the  light  of  truth,  and  we  are  jnformed  that  he  who  has 
intelligence  or  the  light  of  truth  will  forsake  that  evil  one.  A  man  who 
has  intelligence  will  worship  God  and  repent  of  his  sins ;  he  will  seek  to 
know  the  will  of  God  and  follow  it. 

REVELATION  NEEDED 

Now  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  what  the  Prophet  says  in  addition 
to  the  quotation  which  we  have  heard : 

As  far  as  we  degenerate  from  God,  we  descend  to  the  devil  and  lose 
knowledge,  and  without  knowledge  we  cannot  be  saved,  and  while  our 
hearts  are  filled  with  evil,  and  we  are  studying  evil,  there  is  no  room  in  our 
hearts  for  good,  or  studying  good.  Is  not  God  good?  Then  you  be 
good;  if  he  is  faithful,  then  you  be  faithful.  Add  to  your  faith  virtue, 
to  virtue  knowledge,  and  seek  for  every  good  thing.  The  Church  must 
be  cleansed,  and  I  proclaim  against  all  iniquity.  A  man  is  saved  no  faster 
than  he  gets  knowledge,  for  if  he  does  not  get  knowledge  he  will  be  brought 
into  captivity  by  some  evil  power  in  the  other  world,  as  evil  spirits  will 
have  more  knowledge,  and  consequently  more  power  than  many  men  who 
are  on  the  earth.  Hence  it  needs  REVELATION  to  assist  us,  and  give 
us  knowledge  OF  THE  THINGS  OF  GOD. 

Again : 

If  you  wish  to  go  where  God  is  you  must  be  like  God,  or  possess  the 
principles  which  God  possesses,  for  if  we  are  not  drawing  towards  God  in 
principle,  we  are  going  from  him  and  drawing  towards  the  devil. 

Add  to  your  faith  knowledge.  The  principle  of  knowledge  is  the 
principle  of  salvation.  This  principle  can  be  comprehended  by  the  faithful 
and  diligent,  and  every  one  that  does  not  obtain  knowledge  SUFFICIENT 
TO  BE  SAVED  will  be  condemned.  The  PRINCIPLE  OF  SALVA- 
TION is  given  us  through  THE  KNOWLEDGE  OF  JESUS  CHRIST. 

Now  I  understand  that  knowledge  is  very  important,  but  there  is  a 
great  fund  of  knowledge  in  the  possession  of  men  that  will  not  save 
them  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  What  they  have  got  to  learn  is  the  funda- 
mental things  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.   They  have  got  to  learn  to 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

have  faith  in  God.  They  must  learn  to  obey  him.  They  have  got  to 
learn  his  commandments,  his  ordinances  and  keep  them,  and  unless  they 
do,  all  their  learning  and  all  their  knowledge  will  be  of  little  benefit  to 
them. 

PURE  INTELLIGENCE  BRINGS  OBEDIENCE 

President  Joseph  F.  Smith  has  said : 

Christ  inherited  his  intelligence  from  his  Father.  There  is  a  difference 
between  knowledge  and  pure  intelligence.  Satan  possesses  knowledge,  far 
more  than  we  have,  but  he  has  not  intelligence  or  he  would  render 
obedience  to  the  principles  of  truth  and  right.  I  know  men  who  have 
knowledge,  who  perhaps  understand  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  as  well  as 
you  do,  who  are  brilliant,  but  who  lack  the  essential  qualification  of  pure 
intelligence.  They  will  not  accept  and  render  obedience  thereto.  Pure 
intelligence  comprises  not  only  knowledge,  but  also  the  power  to  properly 
apply  that  knowledge. 

EDUCATION  REACHES  INTO  ETERNITY 

On  the  subject  of  education  President  Joseph  F.  Smith  also  said : 

The  knowledge  of  truth,  combined  with  proper  regard  for  it  and  its 
faithful  observance,  constitutes  true  education.  The  mere  stuffing  of  the 
mind  with  knowledge  of  facts  is  not  education.  The  mind  must  not  only 
possess  a  knowledge  of  truth,  but  the  soul  must  revere  it,  cherish  it,  love 
it  as  a  priceless  gem;  and  this  human  life  must  be  guided  and  shaped  by  it 
in  order  to  fulfil  its  destiny.  The  mind  should  not  only  be  charged  with 
intelligence,  but  the  soul  should  be  filled  with  admiration  and  desire  for 
true  intelligence  which  comes  from  a  knowledge  of  the  truth.  Educate 
yourself  not  only  for  time  but  also  for  eternity.  The  latter  of  the  two 
is  the  most  important. 

I  quote  the  following  from  President  Brigham  Young : 

Every  man  and  woman  that  has  talent  and  hides  it  will  be  called  a 
slothful  servant.  Improve  every  day  upon  the  capital  you  have.  In  pro- 
portion as  we  are  capacitated  to  receive,  so  it  is  our  duty  to  do.  I  shall  not 
cease  learning  while  I  live,  nor  when  I  arrive  in  the  spirit  world ;  but  there 
shall  learn  with  greater  facility.  And  when  I  again  regain  my  body,  I 
shall  learn  a  thousand  times  more  in  a  thousand  times  less  time,  and  then 
I  do  not  mean  to  cease  learning. 

Now  I  say  it  boldly,  all  the  knowledge  that  a  man  can  gain  in  this 
world  or  beyond  this  world,  independent  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Almighty,  will  not  lead  him  to  a  fulness,  and  in  defense  of 
that  I  am  going  to  read  to  you  from  section  ninety-three  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants : 

For  if  you  keep  my  commandments  you  shall  receive  of  his  fulness, 
and  be  glorified  in  me  as  I  am  in  the  Father;  therefore,  I  say  unto  you, 
you  shall  receive  grace  for  grace. 

And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  was  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father, 
and  am  the  Firstborn; 

And  all  those  who  are  begotten  through  me  are  partakers  of  the  glory 
of  the  same,  and  are  the  church  of  the  Firstborn. 

Ye  were  also  in  the  beginning  with  the  Father ;  that  which  is  Spirit, 
even  the  Spirit  of  truth; 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  103 


And  truth  i#  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are,  as  they  were,  and  as 
they  are  to  come ; 

And  whatsoever  is  more  than  this  is  the  spirit  of  that  wicked  one  who 
was  a  liar  from  the  beginning. 

The  Spirit  of  truth  is  from  God.  I  am  the  Spirit  of  truth,  and  John 
bore  record  of  me,  saying :  He  received  a  fulness  of  truth,  even  of  all  truth ; 

And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness  unless  he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

He  that  keepeth  his  commandments  receiveth  truth  and  light,  until 
he  is  glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all  things. 

So  with  all  our  boasting,  with  all  our  understanding,  with  all  the 
knowledge  that  we  possess,  let  me  say  that  this  great  knowledge  that  has 
been  poured  out  upon  man,  and  all  that  is  truth  has  come  from  God, 
but  with  it  all  unless  we  humble  ourselves  and  put  ourselves  in  harmony 
with  his  truth  and  seek  for  the  light  which  comes  through  the  Spirit  of 
truth,  which  is  Jesus  Christ,  we  will  never  gain  a  fulness  of  knowledge. 

I  realize  that  it  must  eventually  come  to  pass  in  the  case  of  those  who 
gain  the  exaltation  and  become  sons  of  God,  that  they  must  in  the 
eternities  reach  the  time  when  they  will  know  all  things.  They  must 
know  mathematics ;  they  must  know  all  the  principles  of  science ;  they 
must  be  prepared  in  all  things,  by  learning,  by  study,  by  faith,  to  com- 
prehend these  principles  of  eternal  truth,  even  as  our  Father  in  heaven 
comprehends  them,  and  unless  men  will  put  themselves  in  harmony  with 
him  and  his  Spirit  and  seek  the  light  which  comes  through  that  Spirit 
they  never  will  reach  the  goal  of  perfection  in  these  things.  It  is,  how- 
ever, knowledge  of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  that  will  save  men  in  the 
Kingdom  of  God. 

Now  I  shall  read  another  passage  of  scripture  from  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  in  conclusion: 

And  that  which  doth  not  edify  is  not  of  God,  and  is  darkness. 

TEACHERS  SHOULD  SEEK  THE  SPIRIT  OF  GOD 

Oh,  if  we  could  only  remember  that — our  teachers  in  our  schools, 
in  our  Sunday  schools,  in  our  priesthood  quorums,  and  everywhere  else 
— if  we  would  understand  that  all  that  is  taught  which  does  not  edify 
is  not  of  God,  and  if  we  would  seek  to  teach  by  the  Spirit  of  God,  how 
much  better  off  we  would  be. 

That  which  is  of  God  is  light;  he  that  receiveth  light,  and  continueth 
in  God,  receiveth  more  light ;  and  that  light  groweth  brighter  and  brighter 
until  the  perfect  day. 

But  if  we  are  going  to  reach  that  perfect  day  then  we  must  continue 
in  God,  and  we  cannot  find  that  perfect  day,  the. perfect  light  of  truth, 
independent  of  God.  May  we  seek  that  light  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10:30  to  11  o'clock,  as  a  part  of  the 
proceedings  of  this  session  of  the  Conference,  the  following  program 
of  choral  and  organ  music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

Organ,  and  broadcast  nationwide  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  and 
facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting  Company's  network,  this  broad- 
cast originating  over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City : 

"The  Lord  Now  Victorious"  (Mascagni)   Choir 

"Our  Risen  Lord"  (Harvey  Gaul)    Choir 

"The  Lost  Chord"  (Sullivan)  Organ 

"Christ  is  Risen"  (Stephens)  -  Choir 

(Duet  by  Ruth  Jensen  Clawson  and  Dea  Mitchell) 

"Come,  Come,  Ye  Saints"  (Arrangement  by  Asper)  Organ 

"Alleluia"  (David  U.  Jones)  Choir 

The  Choir  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  Organ  ac- 
companiments and  Organ  solo  presentations  were  played  by  Frank 
W.  Asper. 

CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR  BROADCAST 

As  part  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Conference  there  was  presented, 
immediately  following  the  Tabernacle  and  Organ  Broadcast,  Columbia 
Broadcasting  Company's  Church  of  the  Air  program  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  and  the  congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "O  Ye  Mountains  High." 

Selection  by  Male  Choir,  "The  Pilgrim's  Song"  (Tschaikowsky) . 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Brethren  and  sisters  of  this  great  throng  and  of  the  air, — children 
all  of  one  supreme  God :  today  is  the  traditional  day  of  the  resurrection- 
birth  of  our  Lord  and  Master,  our  Elder  Brother,  Jesus  Christ,  the 
Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  the  Messiah  that  was  to  come,  the  Lamb 
of  God,  the  First-fruits  of  the  Resurrection,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world. 
We  may  not  forget  this  day,  nor  its  significance  for  us. 

Heralded  centuries  before  his  birth  as  the  "Prince  of  Peace" 
(Isaiah  9:6),  heavenly  angels  announced  his  coming,  saying: 

Glory  to  God  in  the  highest,' and  on  earth  peace,  good  will  toward 
men.    (Luke  2 :14.) 

RIGHTEOUSNESS  AT  WAR  WITH  SIN 

Modern  man  sometimes  vainly  thinks  that  Jesus'  mission  was  to 
wipe  out  war  ;  and  scoffers  have  cried  that  since  war  still  curses  the  earth, 
Christ's  mission  has  failed  and  Christianity  is  a  blight. 

Yet  Christ  himself  sent  forth  his  Twelve,  saying : 

Think  not  that  I  am  come  to  send  peace  on  earth :  I  came  not  to  send 
peace,  but  a  sword.    (Matt.  10:34.) 

Christ  did  proclaim  a  peace — the  peace  of  everlasting  righteousness, 
which  is  the  eternal  and  mortal  enemy  of  sin.   Between  righteousness  and 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


105 


sin,  in  whatever  form,  there  can  only  be  unceasing  war,  whether  in  one 
man,  among  the  people,  or  between  nations  in  armed  conflict.  This  war 
is  the  sword  of  Christ ;  whatever  its  form  this  war  cannot  end  until  sin 
is  crushed  and  Christ  brings  all  flesh  under  his  dominion.  Righteousness 
is  peace  wherever  it  abides ;  sin  in  itself  is  war  wherever  it  is  found. 

Sin  and  spiritual  and  mortal  death  came  to  the  world  through  the 
fall  of  Adam ;  these  were  overcome  by  the  atonement  of  Christ.  As 
Paul  declared  it : 

For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive.  (I 
Cor.  15:22.) 

Christ's  mission  perfect  and  complete 

The  mission  of  Christ,  planned  before  the  foundations  of  the  earth 
were  laid,  was  to  conquer  death  and  bring  the  resurrection  to  each  and 
every  of  God's  children  born  to  the  earth.  This  mission  Christ  made 
perfect  and  complete.  To  fill  this  mission  he  needed  no  help  from  man, 
and  no  man  can  take  from  or  add  to  it,  no  matter  what  man  has  done 
or  may  do.  So  Christ's  mission  has  not  failed ;  it  cannot  fail.  It  is  the 
perfect  service  finished,  for  it  is  the  service  of  Deity  himself. 

What  today's  world  must  have,  if  humanity  is  to  go  on  climbing 
upward,  is  men — those  wearing  the  cloth  as  well  as  the  laity — who  know 
that  God  lives  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  men  who,  having  this  knowl- 
edge, have  also  the  intellectual  honesty  not  only  to  admit  but  to  proclaim 
it;  and  men  who  have  further  the  moral  courage  and  sterling  character 
to  live  the  righteous  lives  this  knowledge  demands.  And  this  knowl- 
edge must  be  a  living,  burning  knowledge  of  God  and  Christ.  The  world 
will  never  thrive,  if  indeed  it  can  live,  on  abstruse  ideals  or  an  ethical  code. 

Furthermore,  to  you  men  of  all  beliefs,  truth  is  saying:  The 
righteous  life  is  not  for  the  other  man  only ;  do  not  hug  this  delusion  to 
your  soul.  It  will  destroy  you.  The  righteous  life  is  for  you  and  each 
of  you  also. 

RESPONSIBILITIES  ATTENDING  HOMEMAKING 

The  chief  place  in  which  this  knowledge  and  this  righteousness,  this 
peace  of  Christ  shall  be  bred  and  nurtured,  is  the  home,  and  yet  through- 
out the  world  the  modern  way  of  apostasy,  of  idolatry,  and  of  paganism, 
is  threatening  the  home — the  very  bulwark  of  civilization  itself. 

Everybody  knows  that  home  is  not  the  four  walls  that  keep  out 
the  cold,  the  wind,  and  the  storm,  nor  the  rooms  therein  that  add  comfort 
to  the  indwellers.  These  are  merely  the  house  under  which  the  home  is 
roofed.  The  home  must  have  a  husband  and  wife,  with  all  the  virtues 
that  the  Christian  generations  have  given  them ;  and  to  this  husband 
and  wife  there  must  be  born  children.  Dogs  and  cats  on  the  hearth, 
and  blooded  horses  and  cows  in  the  barn,  are  not  children  and  do  not 
make  a  home.  There  must  be  a  father  and  mother  and  sons  and  daughters 
of  God  in  the  home.  "Multiply  and  replenish  the  earth,"  was  God's 
command  and  is  the  law  of  all  creation. 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

Among  Latter-day  Saints,  children  have  a  peculiar  place  and  relation  : 
They  are  the  fleshly  tabernacled  spirits  whose  intelligences  are  co-eternal 
with  God.  Not  following  the  rebellion  of  Lucifer,  these  spirits  kept  their 
"first  estate"  in  heaven.  They  have  come  to  this  earth  to  receive  the 
mortal  bodies  given  them  by  us  fathers  and  mothers,  and  to  live  their 
"second  estate."  If  these  children  live  rightly  here,  observing  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  and  the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  they  will 
keep  their  "second  estate,"  and  will  not  only  be  resurrected,  as  will  all 
mortals,  but  they  will  also  be  exalted  and  "have  glory  added  upon  their 
heads  forever  and  ever."  And  this  glory  is  the  glory  of  intelligence, 
which  is  the  glory  of  God.  They  shall  have  also  the  glory  of  eternal 
progression.  This  righteous  family  of  father,  mother,  and  children, 
with  their  loving  relationships,  will  endure  throughout  the  eternities 
to  the  glory  and  blessing  of  its  members. 

NATIONAL  STABILITY  DEPENDS  UPON  TRUE  HOMES 

Out  of  this  purposeful,  divine  relationship  of  parent  and  child, 
comes  a  dual  duty  and  love. 

To  the  child  God  said  at  the  great  day  of  law-giving  at  Sinai : 

Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother :  that  thy  days  may  be  long  upon 
the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee.    (Ex.  20:12.) 

This  command  is  not  spiritual  only,  it  is  not  religious  only,  it  is 
also  political.  It  declares  that  in  the  nation  which  shall  live,  children 
must  honor,  that  is,  must  hearken  to  and  obey,  their  parents.  This  means 
there  must  be  in  the  land  the  true  home,  and  that  without  this  home, 
so  signifies  the  command,  the  nation  will  perish. 

Christ  himself,  as  a  child  of  twelve  in  the  Temple,  though  knowing 
his  divine  mission,  its  meaning,  and  its  source,  followed  homeward  his 
anxious,  sorrowing,  and  mildly  reproving  mother,  saying  only : 

How  is  it  that  ye  sought  me?  wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my 
Father's  business?    (Luke  2:49.) 

FILIAL  OBEDIENCE  ENJOINED 

Out  of  the  wisdom  of  the  past  we  have  to  the  children  these  words : 

Hearken  unto  thy  father  that  begat  thee,  and  despise  not  thy  mother 
when  she  is  old.    (Prov.  23:22.) 

A  foolish  son  is  a  grief  to  his  father,  and  bitterness  to  her  that  bare 
him.    (Prov.  17:25.) 

A  wise  son  maketh  a  glad  father :  but  a  foolish  man  despiseth  his 
mother.  (Prov.  15:20.) 

My  son,  keep  thy  father's  commandment,  and  forsake  not  the  law  of 
thy  mother : 

Bind  them  continually  upon  thine  heart,  and  tie  them  about  thy  neck. 
When  thou  goest,  it  shall  lead  thee ;  when  thou  sleepest,  it  shall  keep  thee : 
and  when  thou  awakest,  it  shall  talk  with  thee. 

For  the  commandment  is  a  lamp ;  and  the  law  is  light ;  and  reproofs  of 
instruction  are  the  way  of  life.    (Prov.  6:20-23.) 


Paul  commanded  the  Ephesians : 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  107 


Children,  obey  your  parents  in  the  Lord :  for  this  is  right. 
Honor  thy  father  and  mother ;  which  is  the  first  commandment  with 
promise ; 

That  it  may  be  well  with  thee,  and  thou  mayest  live  long  on  the 
earth.  (Eph.  6:1-3.) 

To  the  wayward  child,  there  comes  the  poignant  wisdom  of  the 
immortal  poet: 

How  sharper  than  a  serpent's  tooth  it  is 

To  have  a  thankless  child.    {King  Lear,  Shakespeare.) 

One  of  the  things  Christ  told  the  rich  young  man  inquiring  as  to 
what  he  should  do  to  inherit  eternal  life,  was  to  "honor  thy  father  and 
mother."  (Mark  10:19.)  This  duty  so  divinely  imposed,  carries  with 
it  to  the  child  the  obligation  lovingly  to  care  for  the  parent  in  poverty,  in 
sickness,  and  in  death. 

CHARGE  TO  PARENTS 

To  the  parent  there  are  equal  duties.  The  same  wisdom  of  the 
past  says: 

Train  up  a  child  in  the  way  he  should  go,  and  when  he  is  old,  he  will 
not  depart  from  it.  (Prov.  22:6.) 

And  again : 

Chasten  thy  son  while  there  is  hope,  and  let  not  thy  soul  spare  for  his 
crying.    (Prov.  19:18.) 

To  you  parents  it  must  be  said :  This  precious  spirit  of  God  is  here 
with  you,  because  you  willed  it  so.  Your  act,  not  his,  brought  him  to 
you.  He  did  not  ask  you  to  bring  him  to  you.  When  you  beckoned  him 
into  the  flesh,  you  became  responsible  for  him. 

You  can  do  no  act  to  thrust  aside  or,  lay  off  from  your  shoulders 
that  responsibility.  That  spirit,  dear  to  God,  is  in  your  keeping.  No 
other  person  can  take  your  place.  Our  Eternal  Father  will  hold  every 
father  and  every  mother  to  a  strict  accountability  for  the  custody  and 
guardianship  of  every  spirit  they  bring  into  the  world. 

REVELATIONS  CITE  PARENTAL  LAXNESS 

The  Lord  in  our  own  day  has  said  that  the  "sin  is  upon  the  heads 
of  the  parents"  that  teach  their  children  "not  to  understand  the  doctrines 
of  repentance,  faith  in  Christ  the  Son  of  the  living  God,  and  of  baptism 
and  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  the  hands.'" 

For  this  shall  be  a  law  unto  the  inhabitants  of  Zion,  or  in  any  of  her 
stakes  which  are  organized. 

And  they  shall  also  teach  their  children  to  pray,  and  to  walk  uprightly 
before  the  Lord. 

***** 

Now,  I,  the  Lord,  am  not  well  pleased  with  the  inhabitants  of  Zion, 
for  there  are  idlers  among  them ;  and  their  children  are  also  growing  up  in 
wickedness ;  they  also  seek  not  earnestly  the  riches  of  eternity,  but  their 
eyes  are  full  of  greediness. 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

These  things  ought  not  to  be,  and  must  be  done  away  from  among 
them.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  68:26,  28,  31,  32.) 

A  little  later  the  Lord  spoke  again  : 

But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up  your  children  in  light  and 
truth.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  93:40.) 

To  Frederick  G.  Williams  he  said : 

You  have  continued  under  this  condemnation ; 

You  have  not  taught  your  children  light  and  truth,  according  to  the 
commandments ;  and  that  wicked  one  hath  power,  as  yet,  over  you,  and  this 
is  the  cause  of  your  affliction. 

And  now  a  commandment  I  give  unto  you — if  you  will  be  delivered 
you  shall  set  in  order  your  own  house,  for  there  are  many  things  that 
are  not  right  in  your  house. 

Verily,  I  say  unto  my  servant  Sidney  Rigdon,  that  in  some  things  he 
hath  not  kept  the  commandments  concerning  his  children;  therefore,  first 
set  in  order  thy  house. 

"And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  Joseph  Smith,  Jun.,  you  have  not  kept 
the  commandments,  and  must  needs  stand  rebuked  before  the  Lord; 

Your  family  must  needs  repent  and  forsake  some  things,  and  give 
more  earnest  heed  unto  your  sayings,  or  be  removed  out  of  their  place. 

My  servant  Newel  K.  Whitney  also,  a  bishop  of  my  Church,  hath 

need  to  be  chastened,  and  set  in  order  his  family,  and  see  that  they  are 

more  diligent  and  concerned  at  home,  and  pray  always  or  they  shall  be 
removed  out  of  their  place.    (Doc.  and  Cov.  93:41-50.) 

Paul  speaking  to  the  Ephesians,  said : 

And  ye  fathers,  provoke  not  your  children  to  wrath ;  but  bring  them 
up  in  the  nurture  and  admonition  of  the  Lord.    (Eph.  6:4.) 

To  the  Colossians  he  said  : 

Fathers,  provoke  not  your  "children  to  anger,  lest  they  be  discour- 
aged.   (Col.  3:21.) 

CHILDREN  TO  BE  TAUGHT  GOSPEL  PRINCIPLES 

Thus  it  is  not  now  the  doctrine  of  the  Church,  and  it  never  has  been, 
that  children  should  be  allowed  to  grow  up  to  a  maturity  when  they  may 
choose  their  religious  beliefs  for  themselves,  before  any  attempt  is  made 
to  teach  them  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  and  the  paths  of 
righteousness.  The  Lord  never  intended  that  children  should  spiritually 
grow  up  neglected  and  cast  adrift  to  care  for  themselves  any  more  than 
he  intended  that  the  newborrr.babe  should  be  thrown  out  into  the  street 
to  live  or  die  as  chance  might  decree,  or  to  wait  until  maturity  to  determine 
whether  he  should  seek  learning  or  remain  in  ignorance. 

On  the  contrary,  the  Lord  has  made  clear  in  his  revelations  that,  from 
earliest  infancy,  children  must  be  taught  in  the  principles  of  the  Gospel 
and  in  the  doctrines  of  the  Church,  else  "the  sin  be  upon  the  heads  of  the 
parents."  "A  child  left  to  himself  bringeth  his  mother  to  shame." 
(Prov.  29:15),  said  the  ancient  proverb.  The  Savior  teaching  his 
disciples,  said: 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  109 


If  a  son  shall  ask  bread  of  any  of  you  that  is  a  father,  will  he  give 
him  a  stone?    Or  if  he  ask  a  fish,  will  he  for  a  fish  give  him  a  serpent? 

Of  if  he  shall  ask  an  egg,  will  he  offer  him  a  scorpion?  (Luke 
11:11,  12.) 

Anyone  who  teaches,  encourages,  or  spreads  this  doctrine  of  neglect, 
no  matter  who  he  is  or  what  his  position,  will  not  be  held  guiltless  before 
the  Lord. 

This  monstrous  doctrine  is  founded  either  in  a  disbelief  in  all  religion, 
or  in  a  belief  that  all  religion  is  for  the  immature  and  weak-minded,  for 
the  morons  of  society,  or  else  that  all  religions,  pagan,  Christian,  idola- 
trous, are  equally  good,  all  lead  to  the  same  goal,  and  no  choice  is  to 
be  made  amongst  them — all  of  which  ideas  are  contrary  to  the  revealed 
will  of  God,  as  his  words  all  testify. 

CHARACTER  TO  BE  BUILT  IN  THE  HOME 

I  repeat  again,  the  prime,  indeed  the  sole,  responsibility  for  starting 
the  child  along  the  right  way,  rests  upon  the  parents.  This  responsibility 
is  the  inescapable  result  of  bringing  children  into  the  world.  It  cannot 
go  unheeded,  nor  can  it  be  cast  off,  or  shifted  to  another.  It  is  a  responsi- 
bility that  comes  by  divine  decree. 

Parents  may  not  assume  that  their  work  can  be  done  by  the  schools  ; 
and  the  schools  shall  not  try  to  usurp  the  place  of  the  parents  nor  to 
relieve  them  of  their  obligations.  Each  has  its  own  place  in  building 
the  upright,  patriot  citizen  and  the  righteous  man  of  God.  So  with  the 
summer  camps,  with  sports  and  other  diversions — these,  rightly  con- 
ducted, may  be  helps  to  the  building  of  youth  character,  but  they  are  not 
homes  and  cannot  be.  If  it  be  said  that  they  are  better  than  some  homes, 
it  may  be  answered  then  shame  upon  such  homes ;  they  are  not  the 
homes  which  God  has  declared  children  should  have. 

GREED  FOR  GAIN  DESTROYING  CHRISTIAN  STANDARDS 

So  also  of  the  mere  amusements  of  the  hour — the  theater,  the  concert 
hall,  the  movie,  and  even  the  radio  in  the  home  itself.  Too  often  these 
are  too  much  guided  by  the  mere  greed  for  gain ;  all  too  frequently  they 
pander  to  them  of  low  morals  and  to  the  weakest  in  mentality ;  too  often 
they  lack  in  simple  decency  and  deserved  shame.  But  when  not  going 
to  these  extremes,  when  in  morals  and  ethics  their  works  are  not  beyond 
the  pale,  yet  in  their  ordinary  offerings  they  too  often  depict  a  standard  of 
life  and  conduct  which  is  un-Christian.  A  Christian  life  is  not  built 
around  cocktail  lounges,  exotic  night  cabarets,  luxurious  hotel  lobbies, 
princely  dwellings  of  idleness,  and  an  ease  and  luxury  that  the  imperial 
palace  has  rarely  known.  Yet  the  youth  are  coming  to  think  that  these 
are  the  norms  of  our  life,  and  that  if  they  do  not  get  them,  something 
is  wrong  with  parents  or  society.  The  world  has  never  had  a  people  that 
were  all  millionaires ;  it  never  will  have.  The  sooner  we  know  this  the 
better  it  will  be  for  the  world. 

We  parents  may  not  trust  the  training  of  our  children  to  any  or  all 
of  these.  If  we  shall  do  so  and  our  children  shall  sin,  then  so  surely  as 
the  Lord  has  said  it,  "the  sins  be  upon  the  heads"  of  us,  the  parents, 


110 

Sunday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


PROPER  TEACHING  A  SHIELD  IN  TEMPTATION 

Children  should  be  home  at  night,  every  night,  and  not  away  from 
home;  our  youth  should  be  home  most  nights,  too,  and  the  occasional 
night  when  they  are  away,  they  should  be  carefully  protected  by  us 
parents,  or  someone  for  us,  from  evil  in  all  its  forms  and  guises. 

We  parents  must  never  forget  and  must  ever  remember  that  when- 
ever our  children  leave  the  home  and  its  purlieus,  for  whatever  reason 
it  may  be,  whether  it  be  for  amusement,  for  learning,  for  matters  of 
livelihood,  or  for  the  activities  of  religion  and  religious  training,  they 
have  for  the  moment  passed  beyond  our  immediate  protection  and  control ; 
they  are  away  from  our  personal  guidance  and  restraint;  we  may  not 
then  with  our  own  hands  and  love  and  care  minister  to  their  need  how- 
ever grave  the  need  may  be.  We  may  send  our  prayers  with  them ; 
we  may  know  that  the  righteousness  we  may  have  instilled  into  their 
hearts  will  be  to  them  as  a  shield;  we  may,  if  we  have  done  our  full 
duty,  know  that  the  spirit  of  God  will  be  with  them,  to  guard  and  protect 
them.  But  we  must  also  know  that  as  they  move  out  there  alone  without 
us,  Evil  will  be  there  too,  for  so  it  has  always  been,  and  will  be  till 
bound ;  and  remember,  the  choicer  the  spirit,  the  more  insistent  are  Evil's 
wiles  and  temptations  to  lead  them  to  destruction. 

HOME  FUNDAMENTAL  TO  CIVIC  AND  RELIGIOUS  LIFE 

Again  I  say,  not  out  of  the  school,  nor  the  concert  hall,  nor  the 
theater,  not  out  of  the  stadium,  nor  the  movie,  nor  the  radio,  not  even  out 
of  the  church  itself  by  itself,  nor  out  of  all  of  them  together,  shall  come 
the  mutual  respect  for  the  rights  of  others,  the  restraining  of  will  and 
selfishness,  the  due  obedience  to  proper  authority,  the  forbearance,  the 
devotion  to  duty,  the  poorness  of  spirit,  the  repentance  for  sin,  the 
meekness,  the  hunger  and  thirst  for  righteousness,  the  mercy,  the  pure- 
ness  of  heart,  the  peacemaking,  the  honesty,  the  sterling  integrity,  the 
charity,  the  love,  the  reverence,  that  shall  make  the  citizenry  of  free 
nations  and  the  subjects  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

All  these  must  come  mostly  from  the  home ;  they  will  fully  come 
from  nowhere  else.  To  be  certain  and  sure  of  their  effect,  they  must 
be  engendered  in  the  forefathers  of  those  who  would  enjoy  them.  This 
duty  we  parents  of  today  owe  to  our  posterity.  Thus  we  must,  as  the 
Lord  said  through  his  prophet  of  old,  "turn  the  heart  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children,  and  the  heart  of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I  come  and 
smite  the  earth  with  a  curse."  (Mai.  4:6.) 

God  grant  we  may  in  this  nation,  and  in  the  world,  rebuild,  fortify, 
and  keep  forever  safe,  the  true  Christian  home. 

(End  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast.) 
At  the  conclusion  of  the  Church  of  the  Air  broadcast,  at  the  request 
of  President  Heber  J.  Grant  the  congregation  arose  and  joined  with  the 
Choir  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Redeemer  of  Israel," 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


111 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

THE  NEED  OF  THE  WORLD  FOR  TEACHINGS  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

Ye  seek  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  which  was  crucified ;  he  is  risen ;  he  is  not 
here:  behold  the  place  where  they  laid  him."    (Mark  16:6.) 

Thus  wrote  Mark  concerning  the  greatest  event  in  the  history  of 
mankind.  Throughout  the  Christian  world  today  the  resurrection  of 
Jesus  Christ  is  being  celebrated.  Perhaps  never  before  was  there  a  greater 
occasion  or  need  for  the  world  to  consider  and  to  apply  the  teachings  of 
the  Lord  and  Master,  Jesus  Christ. 

Declarations  recently  made  by  one  or  two  rulers  of  nations  indicate 
the  unrest,  political  upheavals,  the  tendency  to  barbarism,  in  which 
"might  makes  right."  These  things  are  in  direct  opposition  to  the  life  and 
teachings  of  him  whose  resurrection  from  the  grave  is  being  celebrated 
today. 

One  man  recently  said :  "We  must  arm.  The  watchword  is  this : 
More  cannons,  more  ships,  more  airplanes,  at  whatever  cost,  with  what- 
ever means,  even  if  it  should  mean  wiping  out  all  that  is  called  civil  life." 

"When  one  is  strong  one  is  dear  to  one's  friends,  and  feared  by 
one's  enemies.  Since  prehistoric  times  the  shout  has  come  down  on  the 
wave  of  centuries  and  the  series  of  generations,  'Woe  to  the  weak'." 

Only  twenty-five  years  ago  such  mad  doctrine  cost  the  lives  of  nine 
million  men.  Commenting  upon  that  holocaust  a  recent  writer  says : 
"Why  in  the  name  of  reason  and  sweet  mercy,  had  this  iniquitous  bedlam 
come  to  pass  ?"  And  then  he  answers :  "The  question  is  not  new,  yet 
it  struck  at  me  with  fresh  relentless  force,  and  across  my  mind  flashed  the 
endless  explanation  advanced  by  human  ingenuity,  the  talk  of  economic 
stress,  of  boom  and  slump,  of  unemployment  and  the  rest ;  of  the  rise  and 
fall  of  nations ;  the  need  for  colonies  ;  the  survival  of  the  fittest ;  the  whole 
bag  of  tricks.  How  fatuous,  how  futile  they  all  seemed !  For  it  was  clear, 
acutely  clear.  There  was  only  one  reason,  one  basic  explanation :  MAN 
HAD  FORGOTTEN  GOD  !  Millions  now  living  were  blind  and  deaf^ 
dead  indeed  to  the  knowledge  of  their  Creator.  For  countless  human 
souls  that  name  was  nothing  but  a  myth.  For  others,  an  inherited 
tradition  to  which  lip  service  must  be  paid.  For  others  a  convenient 
path.   For  others  bland  hypocrisy." 

And  so  I  say  today  the  line  is  sharply  drawn  between  the  teachings 
of  Christ  to  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and  strength, 
and  thy  neighbor  as  thyself,  and  the  proclamations  and  practices  of 
autocrats,  who  with  radical  disrespect  for  men,  and  the  human  ideals  of 
justice,  liberty,  equality  and  fraternity,  "relegate  to  the  limbo  of  old 
superstitions,  God,  the  soul,  and  moral  law." 

To  all  who  accept  Christ  as  the  Risen  Lord,  there  can  be  no  question 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

as  to  the  error  of  the  doctrine  that  "Might  makes  Right,"  that  all  who  are 
weak  must  yield  to  those  who  are  strong,  or  that  any  man  possessing 
either  political  or  financial  power  has  the  right  to  use  human  beings  as 
mere  things  or  chattels  to  be  disposed  of  as  any  other  pieces  of  property. 

Christ's  apostles  witnesses  of  the  resurrection 

So  let  us  ask  ourselves,  and  ask  sincerely,  is  it  a  fact  that  the 
crucified  Jesus  did  appear  after  his  death  as  a  resurrected  being  ?  Accept 
this  as  an  actuality  and  you  have  at  least  presumptive  evidence  of  the 
truth  of  his  teachings  regarding  the  sacredness  of  the  individual  as  a 
child  of  God. 

That  the  literal  resurrection  from  the  grave  was  a  reality  to  the 
disciples,  who  knew  Christ  intimately,  is  a  certainty.  In  their  minds  there 
was  absolutely  no  doubt.  They  were  witnesses  of  the  fact.  They  knew 
because  their  eyes  beheld,  their  ears  heard,  their  hands  felt  the  corporeal 
presence  of  the  risen  Redeemer.  Of  the  value  and  significance  of  such 
nearness  and  intimacy  Beverly  Nichols,  author  of  "The  Fool  Hath  Said," 
writes : 

The  authors  of  the  epistles  were  within  hailing  distance,  historically, 
of  Christ ;  at  any  rate,  when  their  ideas,  which  they  afterwards  trans- 
mitted to  paper,  were  formed,  the  winds  had  hardly  had  time  to  efface 
the  sacred  print  of  his  steps  in  the  sands  over  which  he  walked.  The  rain 
had  hardly  had  time  to  wash  away,  with  its  callous  tears,  the  blood  from 
the  rotting  wood  of  the  deserted  cross. 

Yet  these  men  knew — I  can't  go  on  using  the  word  'believe'  which  is 
far  too  vapid  and  colorless — that  God  had  descended  to  earth  in  the  shape 
of  a  certain  man,  that  this  man  had  met  an  obscene  and  clownish  death, 
and  that  the  grotesque  mode  of  his  dying  had  redeemed  mankind  from  sin. 
They  knew,  moreover,  that  he  had  risen  from  the  dead  on  the  third  day 
and  ascended  into  heaven. 

Nearness  to  the  event  gives  increased  value  to  the  evidence  given 
by  the  apostles.  A  deeper  value  of  their  testimony  lies  in  the  fact  that  with 
Jesus'  death  the  Apostles  were  stricken  with  discouragement  and  gloom. 
For  two  and  a  half  years  they  had  been  upheld  and  inspired  by  Christ's 
presence.  But  now  he  was  gone.  They  were  left  alone,  and  they  seemed 
confused  and  helpless.  Only  John  stood  by  the  cross.  Not  with  timidity, 
not  with  feelings  of  doubt,  and  gloom,  and  discouragement,  is  a  skeptical 
world  made  to  believe.  Such  wavering,  despairing  minds  as  the  Apostles 
possessed  on  the  day  of  the  crucifixion  could  never  have  stirred  people  to 
accept  an  unpopular  belief,  and  to  die  martyrs  to  the  cause. 

"What  was  it  that  suddenly  changed  these  disciples  to  confident, 
fearless,  heroic  preachers  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ?  It  was  the 
revelation  that  Christ  had  risen  from  the  grave.  His  promises  had  been 
kept,  his  Messianic  mission  fulfilled." 

On  this  point  Spurgeon  says :  "On  the  evidence  of  these  un- 
prejudiced, unexpectant,  incredulous  witnesses,  faith  in  the  resurrection 
has  its  impregnable  foundation, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


113 


I  urge  the  youth  of  the  Church,  students  particularly,  carefully  to 
consider  the  testimony  of  these  eye  witnesses,  whose  honesty  is  not 
questioned  even  by  skeptical  criticism. 

mark's  testimony 

The  first  of  these  to  record  his  testimony  is  the  one  from  whom  I 
quoted  in  the  text — Mark — who  undoubtedly  was  in  the  presence  of  the 
Savior  when  Mark  was  a  boy  in  his  teens.  We  have  no  evidence  that 
Mark  joined  the  Church  while  the  Savior  was  on  the  earth.  Undoubtedly 
the  Savior  was  in  Mark's  home.  Mark  was  probably  the  youth  who 
rushed  into  the  garden  of  Gethsemane  and  warned  Jesus  that  the 
soldiers  were  coming.  At  any  rate  we  are  justified  in  assuming  that  he 
was  acquainted  with  the  Master. 

Mark  does  not  himself  recount  any  appearance  of  the  risen  Lord ; 
but  he  testifies  that  the  angel  at  the  tomb  announced  the  resurrection,  and 
promised  that  the  Lord  would  meet  his  disciples.  From  Mark  we  hear 
the  glorious  proclamation  of  the  first  empty  tomb  in  all  the  world.  For 
the  first  time  in  the  history  of  man  the  words  "Here  lies"  were  supplanted 
by  the  divine  message  "He  is  risen."  No  one  can  doubt  that  Mark  was 
not  convinced  in  his  soul  of  the  reality  of  the  empty  tomb.  To  him  the 
resurrection  was  not  questionable — it  was  real ;  and  the  appearance  of  his 
Lord  and  Master  among  men  was  a  fact  established  in  his  mind  beyond 
the  shadow  of  a  doubt.  To  the  proclaiming  of  this  truth  he  devoted 
his  life,  and  if  tradition  can  be  relied  upon,  he  sealed  his  testimony  with 
his  blood. 

Another  who  records  the  testimony  of  eye  witnesses  was  Luke,  a 
Gentile,  or,  as  some  think,  a  proselyte  of  Antioch  in  Syria,  where  he 
followed  the  profession  of  physician.  (Col.  4:14.)  Even  some  of  his 
most  severe  modern  critics  have  placed  him  in  the  first  rank  of  an  his- 
torian, and  his  personal  contact  with  early  apostles  makes  his  statements 
of  inestimable  value. 

What  he  wrote  was  the  result  of  personal  inquiry  and  investigation, 
and  was  drawn  from  all  available  sources.  Particularly  he  interviewed 
and  recorded  the  declarations  of  those  "who  from  the  beginning  were 
eyes  witnesses  and  ministers  of  the  Word."  He  avers  that  he  "accurately 
traced  all  things  from  the  very  first,"  so  that  he  might  "write  them  in 
order."  This  means  that  Luke  obtained  the  testimony  of  these  "eye 
witnesses"  directly  from  themselves  and  not  from  previous  narratives. 

According  to  all  trustworthy  testimony,  we  have  the  Gospel  of 
Luke  as  it  came  from  his  hand.  In  chapter  24,  Luke  testifies  to  the 
divine  message : 

Why  seek  ye  the  living-  among  the  dead  ?   He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen. 

With  equal  assurance  as  to  their  accuracy  we  can  accept  his  state- 
ments and  witness  in  regard  to  Peter's  and  Paul's  and  other  apostles' 
testimony  regarding  the  resurrection.  "To  whom  also  Christ  showed 
himself  alive  after  his  passion  by  many  infallible  proofs,  being  seen  of 


114  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

tfeem  forty  days,  and  speaking  of  the  things  pertaining  to  the  kingdom 
©f  God.'"  Who  can  doubt  Luke's  absolute  confidence  in  the  reality  of 
the  resurrection  ? 

It  is  true  that  neither  Mark  nor  Luke  testifies  to  having  personally 
.'seen  the  risen  Lord,  and  therefore,  some  urge  that  their  recorded  testi- 
monies cannot  be  taken  as  first  hand  evidence.  That  they  do  not  so  testify, 
and  yet  were  convinced  that  others  did  see  Him,  shows  how  incontro- 
vertible was  the  evidence  among  the  apostles  and  other  disciples  that 
the  resurrection  was  a  reality. 

Paul's  testimony 

Fortunately,  however,  there  is  a  document  which  does  give  the 
personal  testimony  of  an  eye  witness  to  an  appearance  of  Jesus  after 
Ihis  death  and  burial.  This  personal  witness  also  corroborates  the  testi- 
mony not  only  of  the  two  men  whom  I  have  quoted  but  of  others  also. 
I  refer  to  Saul,  a  Jew  of  Tarsus,  educated  at  the  feet  of  Gamaliel,  a 
strict  Pharisee,  and  before  his  conversion  a  bitter  persecutor  of  all  who 
believed  in  Jesus  of  Nazareth  as  having  risen  from  the  dead. 

And  now  in  the  oldest  authentic  document  in  existence  relating  or 
testifying  to  the  resurrection  of  Christ,  we  find  Paul  saying  this  to  the 
Corinthians : 

For  I  delivered  unto  you  first  of  all  that  which  I  also  received,  how 
that  Christ  died  for  our  sins  according  to  the  scriptures,  and  that  he  was 
buried,  and  that  he  rose  again  the  third  day  according  to  the  scriptures ; 
and  that  he  was  seen  of  Cephas,  then  of  the  Twelve.  After  that  he  was 
seen  of  above  five  hundred  brethren  at  once,  of  whom  the  greater  part 
remain  unto  this  present,  but  some  are  fallen  asleep.  After  that  he  was 
seen  of  James ;  then  of  all  the  apostles.  And  last  of  all  he  was  seen  of  me 
also,  as  of  one  born  out  of  due  time.  For  I  am  the  least  of  the  Apostles, 
that  am  not  meet  to  be  called  an  Apostle,  because  I  persecuted  the  Church 
of  God. 

In  addition  to  the  ancient  apostles  we  have  the  testimony  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  who  gives  in  an  unequivocal  description  the  follow- 
ing stirring  testimony  in  relation  to  his  first  vision : 

There  was  a  light,  and  in  that  light  I  saw  two  personages  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling  me  by  name, 
and  said,  pointing  to  the  other :  "This  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him." 

Later,  as  President  Grant  quoted  in  his  opening  address  of  this 
Conference,  the  Prophet  gives  added  evidence  as  follows  : 

And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies  which  have  been  given  of  him, 
this  is  the  testimony  last  of  all,  which  we  give  of  him :    That  he  lives ! 

For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right  hand  of  God ;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father. 

***** 

That  he  came  into  the  world,  even  Jesus,  to  be  crucified  for  the  world, 
and  to  bear  the  sins  of  the  world,  and  to  sanctify  the  world,  and  to  cleanse 
it  from  all  unrighteousness ;  *  *  *  that  through  him  all  might  be  saved 
whom  the  Father  had  put  into  his  power  and  made  by  him. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


115 


LATTER-DAY  SAINT  BELIEF 

Thus  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  stands  with 
Peter,  with  Paul,  and  with  James,  and  with  all  the  other  apostles  in 
accepting  the  resurrection  not  only  as  being  literally  true  but  as  the  con- 
summation of  Christ's  divine  mission  on  earth.  Other  great  religious 
leaders  among  the  nations  of  the  world  since  history  began  have  taught 
virtue  and  temperance,  self-mastery  and  service,  obedience  to  righteous- 
ness and  duty ;  some  have  taught  a  belief  in  one  supreme  ruler  and  in  a 
hereafter,  but  only  Christ  broke  the  seal  of  the  grave  and  revealed  death 
as  the  door  to  immortality  and  eternal  life. 

If  Christ  lived  after  death,  so  shall  men,  each  one  taking  the  place 
in  the  next  world  for  which  he  is  best  fitted.  Since  love  is  as  eternal  as 
life,  the  message  of  the  resurrection  is  the  most  comforting,  the  most 
glamorous  ever  given  to  man ;  for  when  death  takes  a  loved  one  from  us, 
we  can  look  with  assurance  into  the  open  grave  and  say,  "He  is  not 
here,"  and  "He  will  rise  again." 

Resurrection  and  Spring  are  happily  associated,  not  that  there  is 
anything  in  nature  exactly  analogous  to  the  resurrection,  but  there  is  so 
much  which  suggests  an  AWAKENING  thought.  Like  the  stillness 
of  death  Old  Winter  has  held  all  vegetable  life  in  his  grasp,  but  as  Spring 
approaches  the  tender  life-giving  power  of  heat  and  light  compels  him  to 
relinquish  his  grip,  and  what  seems  to  have  been  dead  comes  forth  in 
newness  of  life,  refreshed,  invigorated,  strengthened  after  a  peaceful 
sleep. 

So  it  is  with  man.  What  we  call  death  Jesus  referred  to  as  sleep. 
"Lazarus  sleeps,"  he  said  to  his  disciples.  "The  damsel  sleepeth,"  were 
his  comforting  words  to  the  bereaved  and  sorrowing  parents  of  a 
little  girl.  Indeed,  to  the  Savior  of  the  world  there  is  no  such  thing  as 
death — only  life — eternal  life.  Truly  he  could  say,  "I  am  the  Resur- 
rection and  the  Life.  He  that  believeth  in  me  though  he  were  dead,  yet 
shall  he  live." 

With  this  assurance,  obedience  to  eternal  law  should  be  a  joy,  not  a 
burden,  for  life  is  joy,  life  is  love.  It  is  disobedience  that  brings  death. 
Obedience  to  Christ  and  his  laws  brings  life.  May  each  recurring  Easter 
emphasize  this  truth,  and  fill  our  souls  with  the  divine  assurance  that 
Christ  is  truly  risen,  and  through  him  man's  immortality  secured,  and 
may  the  day  soon  dawn  upon  the  world  when  the  manifestations  of  brute 
force  and  false  ideals  that  might  makes  right  be  supplanted  by  the 
charitable,  peace-loving  spirit  of  the  Risen  Lord !  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Inflammatus,"  (Margaret  Stewart 
Hewlett,  soloist). 

Elder  Scott  B.  Brown,  President  of  the  Weiser  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock. 


116 


GENERAL  CONEERENCE 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  convened  at  2  o'clock 
Sunday  afternoon,  April  9. 

Again  the  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity,  the  large  Assembly 
Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was  fully  occupied,  and  hun- 
dreds who  could  not  find  accommodations  in  either  of  these  buildings 
assembled  on  the  grounds,  where  they  listened  to  the  Conference  pro- 
ceedings by  means  of  amplifiers. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant  was  present  and  presided  at  this  session. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session,  and  sang 
as  an  opening  number,  "Holy  Art  Thou,"  (Handel),  Rilla  Petersen, 
soloist. 

Elder  Eugene  A.  Hilton,  President  of  the  Oakland  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

An  anthem,  "Awake  My  Soul,"  (Stephens),  was  sung  by  the  Choir 
(Myrtle  Checketts  and  James  Haslam,  soloists). 

PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  have  been  thrilled  with  the  exercises  of 
this  present  conference.  I  was  deeply  thrilled  with  the  singing  of  the 
Singing  Mothers  about  fifteen  hundred  of  them — it  was  wonderful.  I 
have  been  greatly  thrilled  with  the  singing  of  our  regular  Tabernacle 
Choir  here  today.  I  compliment  them  on  the  fine  work  they  are  doing, 
and  I  verily  believe  there  is  no  better  choir  in  the  world.  I  am  thrilled  in 
standing  before  you  and  looking  into  the  faces  of  this  vast  congregation. 
It  is  certainly  a  privilege  to  stand  here  and  occupy  the  pulpit  a  few 
moments.  . 

PURPOSE  IN  LIFE  BRINGS  HAPPINESS 

Happy  is  the  young  man,  and  happy  is  the  young  woman,  yea,  and 
the  older  ones,  if  they  shall  have  discovered  the  purpose  of  life  in  their 
youthful  tlays,  because  if  they  have  discovered  it,  it  will  help  them  to 
order  their  paths,  and  to  live  more  intelligent  lives. 

People  sometimes  say :  "Well,  yes,  the  'purpose  of  life' :  What 
does  it  mean?  What  does  it  amount  to?  We  are  born  into  the  world, 
we  live  our  earth  life  and  pass  on."    What  is  the  answer? 

The  answer  is  that  it  amounts  to  a  very  great  deal,  that  it  is  a  serious 
matter,  and  should  require  our  careful  attention. 

"Brother  Clawson,  what  is  the  purpose  of  life?  Can  you  tell  me 
in  a  few  words  ?"  Yes,  in  one  sentence.  The  Prophet  Lehi  said : 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


117 


Adam  fell  that  men  might  be;  and  men  are,  that  they  might  have  joy. 
(2  Nephi  2:25.) 

Perhaps  the  Prophet  should  have  added  that  they  might  have  a 
fulness  of  joy.  That  is  the  purpose  of  life. 

"Well,  how  is  one  to  obtain  this  fulness  of  joy?" 

EXPERIENCES  BEFORE  OUR  EARTH  LIFE 

Ah,  my  brother,  that  is  another  question.  But  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price  tells  us  that  God  ordained  that  his  spirit  children  should  pass 
through  three  estates,  and  we  here  who  are  his  spirit  children,  and 
others,  have  passed  from  a  former  estate.  We  must  have  lived  there, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  a  long,  long  time.  We  must  have  learned  much 
by  experience.  It  must  have  been  a  place  of  happiness,  but  it  was  not 
a  place  where  one  could  attain  fulness  of  joy.  The  time  came  in  that  first 
estate  when  there  was  war  in  heaven.  A  rebellion  had  broken  out  in 
that  great  spirit  family,  and  we  are  told  in  sacred  writ  that  Michael  and 
his  angels  fought  with  the  dragon  and  his  angels.  I  have  a  few  lines 
here,  taken  from  the  Bible,  which  give  a  brief  description  of  that  war 
and  the  results  that  followed.    Permit  me  to  read  them : 

And  there  was  war  in  heaven :  Michael  and  his  angels  fought  against 
the  dragon ;  and  the  dragon  fought  and  his  angels, 

And  prevailed  not ;  neither  was  their  place  found  any  more  in  heaven. 

And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out,  that  old  serpent,  called  the  Devil, 
and  Satan,  which  deceiveth  the  whole  world :  he  was  cast  out  into  the 
earth,  and  his  angels  were  cast  out  with  him. 

And  I  heard  a  loud  voice  saying  in  heaven,  Now  is  come  salvation, 
and  strength,  and  the  kingdom  of  our  God,  and  the  power  of  his  Christ : 
for  the  accuser  of  our  brethren  is  cast  down,  which  accused  them  before 
our  God  day  and  night. 

And  they  overcame  him  by  the  blood  of  the  Lamb,  and  by  the  word  of 
their  testimony;  and  they  loved  not  their  lives  unto  the  death.  (Rev. 
12:7-11.) 

Rebellion  in  heaven  !  Could  it  be  possible  ?  Yes,  not  only  possible, 
but  it  actually  occurred.  These  spirits  at  that  time  had  their  free  agency, 
as  we  have  our  free  agency,  to  choose  between  good  and  evil.  And 
there  was  a  class  of  spirits,  headed  by  a  prominent  spirit  named  Lucifer, 
the  Son  of  the  Morning.  He  must  have  been  a  spirit  of  ability,  a  spirit 
of  power  and  influence,  and  a  spirit  of  great  authority  in  that  heavenly 
place.  He  stirred  up  the  spirit  of  rebellion  and  sought  to  displace  God 
upon  his  throne ;  so  he  was  cast  down  to  the  earth  with  his  followers, 
a  third  part  of  the  hosts  of  heaven. 

Others  fought  for  the  right  and  were  faithful,  so  that  the  time  came 
when  the  Lord  said  to  one  of  the  spirits : 

You  can  go  no  farther.  You  have  progressed  as  far  in  this  estate 
as  it  is  possible.  Go  down  to  the  earth  below  and  take  upon  yourself  a 
body,  and  then  you  may  pass  through  your  second  estate. 

And,  if  this  should  be  said  to  one,  it  would  be  said  to  all  that  great 
family  of  spirits,  that  each  in  his  turn  should  go  down  and  get  a  body, 


118  General  conference 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

that  this  was  essential  to  their  progress.  They  came  down,  as  we  have 
heard,  Satan  came,  and  his  followers  who  were  evil  spirits. 

And  the  young  man  went  down,  and  we  read  in  the  Bible,  second 
chapter  of  Genesis,  that  "the  Lord  God  formed  man  of  the  dust  of  the 
ground,  and  breathed  into  his  nostrils  the  breath  of  life,  and  man  became 
a  living  soul." 

So  it  was  with  all  those  spirits  in  that  first  estate.  They  came  down 
and  are  coming  to  get  mortal  bodies  and  will  be  coming  for  a  long  time 
in  the  future.   It  was  a  vast  group. 

EVIL  PRESENT  IN  THE  WORLD 

Satan  is  here  with  his  followers,  and  the  fight  is  still  on.  The 
righteous  spirits  find,  when  they  are  brought  into  material  form,  that  they 
stand  naked  and  bare  as  it  were.  If  they  are  to  battle  with  the  evil  spirits 
they  must  be  clothed  upon  with  divine  authority.  How  is  this  brought 
about  ? 

It  is  brought  about  in  the  manner  stated  by  the  Savior  when  he 
said  to  Nicodemus : 

Except  a  man  be  born  again — [and  that  means  every  man  and  every 
woman] — Except  a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

And: 

Except  a  man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  enter  into 
the  kingdom  of  God.    (John  3  :3,  5.) 

And  so  it  was  made  plain  by  the  Savior  that  in  order  to  enter  the 
kingdom  of  God  it  is  necessary  to  be  baptized  by  immersion  in  water  and 
by  the  spirit,  or  Holy  Ghost,  by  one  having  authority.  There  is  no  other 
way.  But  this  birth  by  water  and  spirit,  which  simply  and  only  gives  a 
person  a  standing  in  the  kingdom  of  God,  is  not  sufficient.  If  the  war 
which  originated  in  heaven  is  to  be  fought  over  again  on  earth  in  the  body, 
men  must  have  divine  authority  as  a  preparation.  The  said  authority 
consists  of  the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic  Priesthoods.  The  battle  is 
continuous  and  will  be  waged  through  the  second  or  mortal  estate.  Satan's 
punishment  and  the  punishment  of  his  followers  for  their  rebellion  in 
heaven,  Joseph  Smith  the  Prophet  said,  is  that  they  are  denied  mortal 
bodies.  The  said  punishment  is  terrible  and  will  make  those  who 
receive  it  most  unhappy  for  the  reason  that  they  are  halted,  they  cannot 
progress,  they  cannot  go  forward,  cannot  attain  a  full  measure  of  hap- 
piness. 

Their  eagerness  to  secure  bodies  is  so  great  that  in  many  cases  they 
endeavor  to  steal  the  bodies  of  the  more  favored  spirits,  and  when  these 
evil  spirits  enter  into  and  take  possession  of  the  bodies  of  others  we  say 
of  those  afflicted  that  they  are  possessed  by  evil  spirits.  They  can  only 
be  subdued  and  cast  out  of  stolen  bodies  by  those  members  of  Christ's 
Church  who  are  under  divine  authority. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CL/UVSOS 


119 


A  SCHOOL  OF  EXPERIENCE 

They  who  pass  through  the  second  estate  will  be  tried  and  tested 
to  the  uttermost,  because  it  is  said  of  them  that  if  they  keep  their  second 
estate  glory  will  be  added  upon  their  heads  forevermore,  while  those 
who  do  not  keep  their  second  estate  but  rebel  against  the  God  of  heaven 
and  against  the  Priesthood  and  power  of  God  will  be  defeated  and  go 
down  to  destruction. 

The  great  majority  of  Latter-day  Saints  are  making  a  gallant  fight. 
Some  are  putting  more  effort  into  it  than  others  and  therefore  accomplish 
more  than  others.  Surely  the  second  estate  is  a  great  school  of  experience ; 
a  variety  of  conditions  are  encountered — sickness,  disease,  misfortune, 
disappointment,  sins  of  commission,  sins  of  omission,  days  of  happiness 
and  days  of  sorrow. 

In  this  estate  the  children  of  God  are  sorely  tried  that  it  may  be 
seen  whether  or  not  they  will  keep  the  commandments  of  God  and  will 
live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth  forth  from  his  mouth.  If  they  are 
faithful  they  will  rise  to  exaltation  and  glory  in  their  third  estate,  as 
already  mentioned. 

That  there  is  a  definite  purpose  of  life  is  further  shown  by  the  follow- 
ing paragraphs  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  Section  93,  verses  33-34 : 

For  man  is  spirit.    The  elements  are  eternal,  and  spirit  and  element, 
inseparably  connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy; 

And  when  separated,  man  cannot  receive  a  fulness  of  joy. 

I  apprehend,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  it  is  our  supremest  desire 
to  secure  this  great,  if  not  the  greatest  of  all  blessings. 

A  FULNESS  OF  JOY 

Another  thing :  Before  we  can  enter  into  full  and  complete  exalta- 
tion and  glory  and  receive  a  fulness  of  joy  we  must  take  into  account 
the  sublime  doctrine  of  marriage.  It  is  necessary  to  our  final  exaltation. 
The  man  and  woman  were  created  together,  or  in  other  words  it  was  one 
creative  act.  In  the  Garden  of  Eden  it  was  found  not  to  be  right  for 
Adam  to  live  alone.  Therefore  Eve  was  created  and  given  to  him  for  a. 
companion,  a  helpmate,  that  he  as  a  king  and  a  priest  and  she  as  a  queen 
and  priestess  might  rise  to  exaltation  and  glory  and  together  receive 
a  fulness  of  joy. 

I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  today  in  the  glorious  oppor- 
tunities that  are  before  us  to  win  a  crown  in  the  kingdom  of  our  God. 
The  victory  is  within  our  reach  if  we  will  only  take  hold  and  make  the 
best  of  our  opportunities. 

THE  BODY  A  PRECIOUS  GIFT 

Let  me  say  in  a  few  closing  words  how  important  it  is  that  we 
should  look  after  these  mortal  bodies  that  God  has  given  us.  They  are 
precious  gifts  from  heaven.  It  is  not  only  proper  and  right  that  we 
should  look  after  our  spirits,  for  that  is  what  constitutes  the  life  within 
the  body,  but  we  should  also  look  after  our  bodies.    Is  it  any  wonder 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

that  the  Church  has  organized  a  campaign  against  liquor  and  tobacco 
which  are  so  hurtful  to  the  body,  and  in  a  measure  defile  the  body  ?  There 
are  other  things  also  that  weaken  the  body — immorality,  etc.  We  should 
remember  that  we  are  to  lay  these  bodies  down  and  take  them  up  again 
as  the  Savior  laid  his  body  down  and  took  it  up.  He  was  the  first  fruits 
of  the  resurrection,  and  he  holds  the  keys  of  the  resurrection.  So,  as  he 
has  gone  down  and  come  up,  surely  his  brethren  will  go  down  and  come 
up  and  be  resurrected.  And  it  is  therefore  very  desirable  that  we  should 
take  up  our  bodies  free  from  sin  and  defilement. 

Now,  I  shall  just  read  these  few  lines  to  close  my  remarks : 

I  live  for  those  who  love  me, 

For  those  who  know  me  true, 
For  the  heaven  that  smiles  above  me, 

And  awaits  my  spirit,  too ; 

For  the  cause  that  lacks  assistance, 
For  the  wrong  that  needs  resistance, 
For  the  future  in  the  distance, 
And  the  good  that  I  can  do. 

God  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters.  The  Lord  bless  the  Presidency 
of  this  Church,  and  the  Twelve,  and  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  and 
all  the  presiding  authorities,  the  authorities  in  the  stakes  of  Zion,  the 
authorities  in  the  mission  fields.  May  peace  and  blessing  and  success 
attend  you  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  has  been  a  glorious  occasion ;  we  have  delightful  weather,  com- 
fort and  peace.  We  rejoice  in  both  the  speaking  and  the  music,  and  I  do 
not  know  of  any  people  in  all  the  world  who  has  more  reason  to  be  grate- 
ful to  our  Heavenly  Father  than  the  group  that  is  assembled  at  this  con- 
ference. 

EVIDENCES  ESTABLISHING  THE  FACT  OF  THE  RESURRECTION 

Today  we  are  celebrating  what  the  Christian  world  calls  Easter,  the 
anniversary  of  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  who  was  the  first 
fruits  of  the  resurrection  from  the  dead. 

We  have  had  some  splendid  information  imparted  to  us  in  this  con- 
ference. Surely  if  there  is  anything  more  pleasing  than  the  knowledge 
that  we  are  living  eternal  life,  it  is  that  the  Lord  in  his  mercy  has  bestowed 
upon  us  the  information  necessary  to  enable  us  to  enjoy  that  eternal  life 
in  the  highest  glory. 

We  possess  all  that  the  world  knows  with  reference  to  the  resurrection 
from  the  dead,  and  in  addition  we  have  other  important  information  con- 
cerning it.  We  accept  without  reservation  the  testimony  of  all  of  the 
evangelists  contained  in  the  New  Testament  with  reference  to  the  resur- 
rection of  the  Redeemer  of  mankind.  It  is  so  plain  that  it  seems  to  me 
that  no  thoughtful  person  can  fail  to  comprehend  it.    The  fact  is  that 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


121 


after  the  Savior  was  crucified  and  was  laid  in  the  tomb  he  came  forth,  and 
for  forty  days  he  associated  with  his  disciples,  he  partook  of  fish  and 
honeycomb  with  them,  they  felt  the  prints  of  the  nails  in  his  hands  and 
the  spear  mark  in  his  side.  He  declared  to  them  while  he  stood  among 
them,  "Behold  my  hands  and  my  feet  that  it  is  I  myself  :  handle  me  and  see 
for  a  spirit  hath  not  flesh  and  bones  as  ye  see  me  have."  Surely  this  is 
incontrovertible  evidence  and  yet  there  are  many  of  our  Father's  children 
who  do  not  understand  it. 

We  read  in  Job,  "But  there  is  a  spirit  in  man ;  and  the  inspiration  of 
the  Almighty  giveth  them  understanding."  Those  who  have  not  received 
that  inspiration  will  not  comprehend  the  meaning  of  the  resurrection 
from  the  dead,  and  without  that  understanding  it  seems  to  me  there  would 
be  little  happiness  for  those  who  are  living  in  mature  years,  waiting  for 
the  time  when  the  spirit  leaves  the  body  to  go  they  know  not  where. 

ADDITIONAL  TESTIMONY  IN  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

The  Lord  has  favored  us.  He  not  only  gives  us  the  evidence  con- 
tained in  the  Bible  but  in  addition  the  testimony  that  we  find  recorded  in 
the  American  scripture,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  III  Nephi,  Chapter  2.  After 
the  Savior  had  been  crucified  and  resurrected  and  ascended  into  heaven 
a  great  multitude  of  people  were  assembled  around  the  temple  in  the 
land  Bountiful  on  this  western  hemisphere,  marveling  at  the  changes 
that  had  been  wrought.  They  heard  an  unusual  voice  repeated  three 
times.  It  was  not  a  loud  voice,  neither  was  it  a  harsh  voice,  and  yet  it 
pierced  them  to  their  very  centers.  Looking  toward  the  sound  they  saw 
a  man  descending  out  of  heaven.  He  was  clothed  in  a  white  robe,  and 
he  came  down  and  stood  in  the  midst  of  them  and  declared  to  them, 
"Behold  I  am  Jesus  Christ  whom  the  prophets  testified  should  come  into 
the  world." 

What  more  direct  evidence  of  resurrection  from  the  dead  could  have 
beenhad  than  that  he,  in  his  resurrected  body,  came  among  them  and  taught 
them  the  same  Gospel  that  he  taught  in  Jerusalem.  And  he  now  fulfilled 
the  promise  he  had  made  in  Jerusalem  when  he  said,  "Other  sheep  I 
have  which  are  not  of  this  fold ;  them  also  I  must  bring  and  they 
shall  hear  my  voice;  and  there  shall  be  one  fold  and  one  shepherd."  He 
came  in  his  resurrected  body  to  bring  to  them  the  information  he  had  pre- 
dicted should  be  given  to  those  to  whom  he  now  ministered. 

It  was  a  wonderful  experience  for  those  people.  After  teaching 
them  all  day  he  told  them  that  he  must  leave  them  but  would  return  on 
the  morrow,  which  he  did,  to  find  a  much  larger  group  assembled.  He 
healed  their  sick  and  blessed  their  children  and  continued  to  instruct 
them  in  the  beauty  of  his  Gospel.  There  was  no  doubt  in  their  minds  that 
he  was  the  Savior  of  the  world.  They  saw  him  come  from  heaven  and 
witnessed  his  marvelous  power.  He  did  not  come  to  them  as  a  little 
babe,  helpless  in  the  hands  of  his  enemies,  but  he  came  in  glory.  Angels 
came  down  from  heaven  as  it  were  in  the  midst  of  fire  and  surrounded 
the  little  children  so  that  they  were  encircled  with  fire.  And  the  angels 
did  minister  unto  them. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

Those  were  not  hallucinations,  but  experiences  of  such  marvelous 
character  as  to  be  remembered  forever  by  those  who  experienced  them. 
As  Latter-day  Saints  we  accept  this  record  as  evidence  of  the  resurrection 
of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  EXPERIENCE 

When  Joseph  Smith,  not  yet  fifteen  years  of  age,  read  in  James  1 :5 
"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not ;  and  it  shall  be  given  him,"  he  believed 
what  he  read.  He  was  not  reared  in  ignorance  as  some  have  supposed. 
His  father  was  a  successful  school  teacher.  The  Bible  was  a  sacred 
volume  in  their  home  library.  When  he  read  that  the  Lord  would  give 
wisdom  to  those  who  asked  for  it,  he  went  into  the  woods  nearby  and  he 
knelt  down  and  prayed. 

In  answer  to  his  prayer  he  beheld  the  Father  and  the  Son.  Not  only 
did  he  see  them,  but  he  heard  their  voices,  first  the  Father  saying :  "This 
is  my  beloved  Son ;  hear  ye  him !"  And  then  the  Son  spoke  to  him  and 
answered  his  questions.  Joseph  wanted  to  know  which  Church  to  join 
and  was  informed  that  he  should  join  none  of  them,  because  they  were 
not  doing  what  the  Lord  desired  them  to  do.  He  was  informed  then  and 
later  that  there  was  work  for  him  to  do.  It  was  a  little  over  a  hundred 
years  ago  when  that  occurred,  but  what  Joseph  saw  and  heard  had  a 
great  influence  on  the  religious  world. 

DIRECT  REVELATION  FROM  GOD 

In  our  day  we  have  the  Bible,  we  have  the  Book  of  Mormon  which 
was  given  to  Joseph  Smith  by  our  Heavenly  Father,  and  we  have  the 
revelations  of  God  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  We  have  the  witness 
of  others  who  have  had  angels  visit  them  and  who  testified  regarding 
sacred  things.  In  the  Kirtland  temple  marvelous  manifestations  were 
witnessed  by  faithful  men,  all  contributing  to  assurance  of  a  literal  resur- 
rection. 

The  resurrection  ought  to  be  an  easy  thing  for  us  to  understand. 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  received  the  laying  on  of  hands  of 
those  who  had  been  with  the  Savior  as  disciples  in  Judea.  They  conferred 
the  Priesthood  upon  them  and  explained  to  them  the  teachings  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  contained  in  the  Holy  Bible. 

We  ought  to  be  grateful.  No  other  people  in  the  world  have  been 
so  blessed  as  we.  We  should  evidence  our  belief  in  Jesus  Christ  by  living 
in  such  a  way  that  we  will  be  worthy  of  the  inspiration  of  God's  Holy 
Spirit.  We  can  if  we  will  live  in  accordance  with  the  things  that  have 
been  revealed  to  us.  Now,  with  reference  to  the  resurrection  of  the 
Savior,  there  is  no  doubt. 

We  may  turn  to  section  88  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  and  see 
what  the  Lord  has  said  about  our  resurrection,  not  only  the  resurrection 
of  the  Savior,  but  he  tells  us  what  may  happen  to  us,  and  I  will  read  so 
that  I  shall  not  misquote  : 

Now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  through  the  redemption  which  is 
made  for  you  is  brought  to  pass  the  resurrection  from  the  dead. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


123 


And  the  spirit  and  the  body  are  the  soul  of  man. 

And  the  resurrection  from  the  dead  is  the  redemption  of  the  soul. 

And  the  redemption  of  the  soul  is  through  him  that  quickeneth  all 
things,  in  whose  bosom  it  is  decreed  that  the  poor  and  the  meek  of  the 
earth  shall  inherit  it. 

Therefore,  it  must  needs  be  sanctified  from  all  unrighteousness,  that  it 
may  be  prepared  for  the  celestial  glory; 

For  after  it  hath  filled  the  measure  of  its  creation,  it  shall  be  crowned 
with  glory,  even  with  the  presence  of  God  the  Father; 

That  bodies  who  are  of  the  celestial  kingdom  may  possess  it  forever 
and  ever;  for,  for  this  intent  was  it  made  and  created,  and  for  this  intent 
are  they  sanctified. 

And  they  who  are  not  sanctified  through  the  law  which  I  have  given 
unto  you,  even  the  law  of  Christ,  must  inherit  another  kingdom,  even  that 
of  a  terrestrial  kingdom,  or  that  of  a  telestial  kingdom. 

For  he  who  is  not  able  to  abide  the  law  of  a  celestial  kingdom  cannot 
abide  a  celestial  glory. 

And  he  who  cannot  abide  the  law  of  a  terrestrial  kingdom  cannot 
abide  a  terrestrial  glory. 

And  he  who  cannot  abide  the  law  of  a  telestial  kingdom  cannot  abide 
a  telestial  glory ;  therefore  he  is  not  meet  for  a  kingdom  of  glory.  There- 
fore he  must  abide  a  kingdom  which  is  not  a  kingdom  of  glory. 

And  again,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  the  earth  abideth  the  law  of  a 
celestial  kingdom,  for  it  filleth  the  measure  of  its  creation,  and  transgresseth 
not  the  law — 

Wherefore,  it  shall  be  sanctified;  yea,  notwithstanding  it  shall  die,  it 
shall  be  quickened  again,  and  shall  abide  the  power  by  which  it  is  quickened, 
and  the  righteous  shall  inherit  it. 

For  notwithstanding  they  die,  they  also  shall  rise  again,  a  spiritual  body. 

They  who  are  of  a  celestial  spirit  shall  receive  the  same  body  which 
was  a  natural  body ;  even  ye  shall  receive  your  bodies,  and  your  glory  shall 
be  that  glory  by  which  your  bodies  are  quickened. 

Ye  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of  the  celestial  glory  shall  then 
receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness. 

And  they  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of  the  terrestrial  glory  shall 
then  receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness. 

And  also  they  who  are  quickened  by  a  portion  of  the  telestial  glory 
shall  then  receive  of  the  same,  even  a  fulness. 

And  they  who  remain  shall  also  be  quickened ;  nevertheless,  they  shall 
return  again  to  their  own  place,  to  enjoy  that  which  they  are  willing  to  re- 
ceive, because  they  were  not  willing  to  enjoy  that  which  they  might  have 
received. 

For  what  doth  it  profit  a  man  if  a  gift  is  bestowed  upon  him,  and  he 
receive  not  the  gift?  Behold,  he  rejoices  not  in  that  which  is  given  unto 
him,  neither  rejoices  in  him  who  is  the  giver  of  the  gift. 

We  are  informed  in  this  section  that  our  bodies  are  to  be  raised  from 
the  tomb,  not  some  other  bodies,  and  that  the  spirits  that  possess  these 
tabernacles  now  will  inhabit  the  same  tabernacles  after  they  have  been 
cleansed  and  purified  and  immortalized. 

BLESSINGS  BRING  RESPONSIBILITY 

I  think  we  would  be  a  very  ungrateful  people  if,  with  all  the  infor- 
mation that  God  has  bestowed  upon  us  for  our  comfort  and  blessing  (and 
he  has  told  us  that  we  must  divide  that  information  with  all  the  world), 
we  did  not  go  a  long  way  and  make  many  sacrifices  for  our  Father's  other 
children  who  are  precious  in  his  sight,  that  they  might  know  what  he  has 
revealed  to  us.    There  will  be  many  who  will  not  understand,  but  th§ 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

Lord  intends  that  all  shall  have  an  opportunity  to  know,  and  it  will  be  our 
duty  and  responsibility  to  see  that  this  Gospel  is  proclaimed  in  all  parts 
of  the  world  for  the  blessing  of  all  who  will  receive  it. 

We  know  all  that  the  world  knows  with  reference  to  the  resurrection. 
We  have  all  that  the  world  has  with  reference  to  other  truths.  We  have 
the  authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  bestowed  upon  men  in  this  dispen- 
sation to  prepare  the  human  family  for  the  Celestial  kingdom. 

I  wonder  if  we  appreciate  how  blessed  we  are  in  having  all  that  our 
brethren  and  sisters  of  the  world  have  and  in  addition  these  other  op- 
portunities. With  these  opportunities  and  responsibility  we  ought  to  set 
our  homes  in  order.  We  ought  to  teach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  to 
our  children  and  to  our  grandchildren,  and  to  our  great  grandchildren 
if  we  live  long  enough.  There  is  nothing  more  precious  to  us  than  our 
children,  and  our  eternal  happiness  will  be  largely  conditioned  by  what 
they  attain  to.  The  Lord  has  given  us  to  understand  what  it  all  means. 
Surely  we  will  not  betray  his  confidence  in  us  by  failing  to  do  the  thing 
that  we  know  we  should  do. 

INSPIRATION  GIVES  UNDERSTANDING 

Mention  has  been  made  during  this  conference  of  the  failure  of  many 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  obey  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly 
Father  with  reference  to  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  As  simple  a  thing  as 
refusing  or  failing  to  obey  the  Word  of  Wisdom  may  deprive  us  of  the 
companionship  of  that  Spirit  that  would  enable  us  to  understand  other 
important  truths.  There  is  a  spirit  in  man  but  it  requires  the  inspiration 
of  the  Almighty  to  give  it  understanding,  and  if  we  want  that  under- 
standing we  must  live  for  it.  There  will  be  no  doubt  about  it  if  we  ob- 
serve the  commandments  of  God.  We  will  not  need  the  testimony  of 
others  to  know  that  this  work  is  true.  When  the  disciples  of  the  Savior 
were  with  him  they  admired  him  not  knowing  how  great  he  really  was, 
but  not  until  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost  came  upon  them,  not  until 
they  had  the  baptism  of  fire  were  they  able  to  face  the  problems  and  en- 
dure the  persecutions  that  almost  made  life  unendurable.  When  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty  gave  them  understanding  they  knew  they 
were  living  eternal  life,  and  if  they  proved  faithful  they  knew  that  when 
they  laid  their  bodies  down  in  death  they  would  be  raised  from  the  tomb 
to  glory  and  immortality. 

That  was  the  result  of  the  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  came 
upon  them,  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  that  gave  them  understanding. 
If  there  is  any  doubt  in  the  mind  of  any  man  or  woman  in  this  Church 
who  has  been  baptized  and  repented  of  their  sins  and  who  has  had  hands 
laid  upon  them  for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost — if  there  is  any  doubt  in 
their  minds  of  the  truth  and  divinity  of  this  work  it  is  because  they  have 
failed  to  measure  up,  it  is  because  they  have  transgressed  the  laws  of 
God,  and  because  they  have  not  kept  the  light  of  truth  burning  in  their 
souls.  We  need  repentance  if  that  occurs  to  us ;  otherwise  that  assurance 
may  depart  from  us  to  return  again  no  more. 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


125 


JOY  IN  LABORING  IN  THE  CHURCH 

Standing  in  your  presence  as  I  do  today  I  am  grateful  for  my  bless- 
ings, I  am  thankful  for  your  companionship.  It  is  a  joy  to  be  associated 
with  men  such  as  lead  this  Church — these  who  are  upon  this  stand.  I  can 
testify  to  you  as  one  who  knows  them  from  personal  contact  that  they 
are  men  of  God,  but  they  are  men.  They  may  make  some  mistakes,  but 
they  will  correct  them.  They  are  holy  men  who  are  seeking  the  will  of 
God  and  for  that  inspiration  that  gives  them  understanding.  It  is  a  joy 
to  labor  with  them  and  to  have  contact  with  them  and  I  thank  my  Heaven- 
ly Father  for  that  privilege  I  am  grateful  to  be  your  companion  in  this 
great  Church,  for  the  opportunity  I  have  of  visiting  the  Stakes  of  Zion 
and  the  missionary  field.  I  am  thankful  for  the  privilege  that  has  been 
mine  to  associate  with  good  men  and  women,  many  of  them  not  members 
of  this  Church.  But  our  Heavenly  Father  desires  that  they  shall  have 
an  understanding  of  the  truth,  that  they  may  take  advantage  of  their 
privileges  while  they  are  here.  It  is  your  duty  and  mine  to  let  our  light 
so  shine  that  others  observing  our  upright  lives  will  be  constrained  to 
glorify  the  name  of  him  who  is  the  Author  of  our  being.  It  is  our  privi- 
lege to  do  that  and  if  we  fail  it  will  not  be  because  we  have  not  known 
better. 

I  pray  that  that  Spirit  which  keeps  us  in  the  pathway  of  truth  and 
righteousness  may  abide  with  us,  and  I  pray  that  that  desire  that  comes 
from  the  inspiration  of  our  Heavenly  Father  may  direct  us  on  that  path- 
way of  life.  Some  of  us  may  not  be  here  many  years  more,  and  today 
is  the  acceptable  time  of  the  Lord  for  every  one  of  us  to  atone  for  the 
mistakes  we  have  made  and  repent  of  our  sins  and  come  to  him  with  a 
broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit,  with  a  desire  that  we  may  be  forgiven 
of  our  mistakes  and  rejoice  in  the  companionship  of  his  Spirit  while  we 
remain  upon  the  earth. 

That  God  may  add  his  blessings  and  that  the  joy  that  comes  from 
him  alone  may  fill  your  hearts  and  your  homes,  that  wherever  you  go 
you  may  be  leaders  of  ability  and  teachers  of  righteousness  among  the 
children  of  men,  and  when  the  time  comes  for  us  to  go  hence  that  we  may 
receive  from  our  Heavenly  Father  that  glorious  welcome,  "Well  done, 
thou  good  and  faithful  servant,  thou  hast  been  faithful  over  a  few  things, 
I  will  make  thee  ruler  over  many  things,  enter  thou  into  the  joy  of  thy 
Lord,"  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

This  conference  is  a  spiritual  feast,  a  feast  of  fat  things  for  the 
righteous  prepared.  Just  before  the  close  of  this  morning's  meeting 
these  words  came  to  my  mind.  "Certain  Greeks  came  to  Philip,  saying, 
'Sir,  we  would  see  Jesus'." 

JESUS  MOVING  AMONG  MEN 

In  the  heavenly  bodies,  in  the  skies,  God  may  be  seen  moving  in  his 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Day 

majesty  and  glory.  The  stars,  those  rounded  orbits  of  light,  the  sun  and 
the  moon  and  the  heavens  declare  the  glory  of  God,  but  they  do  not  de- 
clare his  will.  I  would  see  Jesus  moving  among  men,  giving  uplift  of 
spirit  to  the  distressed  in  mind  and  in  body. 

Tennyson  was  asked  by  a  friend :  "What  does  Jesus  Christ  mean 
to  you  personally  ?" 

The  great  poet  replied :  "Christ  means  to  me  what  the  sun  means 
to  the  rosebush." 

I  am  thankful  that  the  philosophy  of  our  religion  gives  me  the 
comfort  of  a  personal  God,  who  hears  the  widow's  mournful  cry,  "sends 
the  laboring  conscience  peace,  and  grants  the  prisoner  sweet  relief."  I 
think  it  was  Victor  Hugo  who  said  that  of  all  the  names  of  Deity,  com- 
passion was  the  most  beautiful,  and  God  is  a  compassionate  being.  "So 
nigh  is  grandeur  to  our  dust,  so  near  is  God  to  man." 

THE  ROAD  TO  HEAVEN 

In  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  read  that  the  great  Creator  suffered  and 
bled  on  the  cross,  died  for  all  men,  that  all  men  might  become  subject 
unto  him.  Jesus  became  subject  unto  man  in  the  flesh.  He  was  the 
suffering  servant,  the  personification  of  service.  Service  was  the  road 
his  sanctified  and  heavenly  feet  trod,  and  in  all  the  philosophy  of  the 
world,  yea  in  the  philosophy  of  religion,  the  only  road  to  heaven  is  the 
road  of  service.    This  shines  like  a  gem. 

What  glorifies  a  mother?  She  becomes  subject  unto  her  children 
and  serves  them,  wearing  out  her  splendid  life  to  care  for  them.  My 
brethren  and  sisters,  if  our  children  fail  we  too  fail,  in  a  measure  at 
least.  In  this  great  Church  Welfare  movement,  I  see  the  spirit  of  Christ 
moving  in  compassion,  in  grandeur,  in  mercy,  and  in  pity  among  the 
unfortunate  children  of  men  who  are  not  blessed  with  much  of  this 
world's  goods. 

Do  you  want  to  taste  heaven  ?  Do  you  want  to  feel  the  presence  of 
Christ?  Then  go  with  the  Elders  who  have  these  charitable  projects  in 
hand.  Minister  to  the  needy,  give  aid  to  the  worthy  poor,  teach  people 
to  work,  to  become  independent.  The  fulness  and  the  majesty  of  man- 
hood rests  upon  him  who  is  willing  and  anxious  to  toil  and  who  has  the 
opportunity  to  labor.  What  people  get  for  nothing  they  do  not  always 
appreciate.  As  God  became  subject  to  man  in  the  flesh,  so  in  preaching 
this  Gospel,  in  going  about  as  Jesus  did,  doing  good,  we  are  serving, 
we  are  knowing  that  Christ  lives,  and  that  he  is  not  far  removed  from  us. 
I  repeat,  if  we  want  to  have  a  foretaste  of  heaven,  if  we  do  not  want 
to  wait  until  the  millennium  before  we  walk  in  the  Garden  of  Eden,  let 
us  give  liberally  of  our  substance  unto  the  poor. 

CHRIST  THE  AUTHOR  OF  EVERY  GOOD  AND  PERFECT  GIFT 

Christ  is  the  source  of  all  light.  I  do  not  believe  there  was  ever  an 
architect,  a  scholar,  a  surgeon,  a  painter,  a  builder,  who  did  those  won- 
derful things  without  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    We  may 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


127 


refuse  to  acknowledge  it,  but  nevertheless  it  is  true,  for  Christ  is  the 
author  of  every  good  and  perfect  gift  that  cometh  from  above. 

Our  Church  educational  system,  the  Brigham  Young  University, 
and  all  our  institutes  and  seminaries  presided  over  by  devoted  men  and 
noble  scholars,  are  doing,  I  am  fully  persuaded,  a  great  work  in  pre- 
paring young  men  and  women  to  preach  the  Gospel,  and  in  fitting  them 
to  face  the  problems  of  life. 

Jesus  said :  "Peace  I  leave  with  you ;  my  peace  I  give  unto  you ;  not 
as  the  world  giveth,"  but  the  peace  that  makes  for  godly  contentment. 
And  brethren  and  sisters,  this  world  will  never  know  true  and  lasting 
peace  until  righteousness  goes  before  peace,  for  there  can  be  no  enduring 
peace  without  righteousness.  Righteousness  exalteth  a  nation,  but  sin 
is  a  reproach  to  any  people. 

THE  RESURRECTED  LORD 

Another  promise :  "Because  I  live  ye  shall  live  also."  Oh,  the  sweet 
comfort  this  promise  gives,  I  know  that  my  Redeemer  lives.  And 
because  he  lives  I  shall  live,  my  personality  shall  survive.  I  like  to 
think  of  Christ  immortal  and  resurrected  in  glory.  I  like  to  think  of 
him  as  he  moved  among  men  upon  the  earth.  I  do  not  believe  we  change 
much  in  the  way  of  rendering  service  when  we  go  to  the  other  world. 
Jesus,  after  he  was  resurrected,  used  the  hands  that  made  the  world,  to 
prepare  food  for  his  disciples,  and  when  the  resurrected  Lord  came  to 
this  glorious  western  hemisphere,  he  called  for  the  halt  and  the  blind, 
the  maimed,  the  deaf,  the  sick  and  with  those  heavenly  hands  he  touched 
their  infirmities  (which  he  had  borne  in  mortality)  and  he  healed  them. 

I  see  crowded  around  him  those  beautiful  children,  not  afraid  of  the 
Almighty,  the  little  girls  smiling  into  his  face,  the  boys  going  up  to  him 
unafraid.  And  upon  them  he  laid  his  hands  and  blessed  them,  and  behold, 
as  he  knelt  on  the  ground  he  "groaned  within  himself,"  for  he  was 
"troubled  because  of  the  wickedness  of  the  people  of  the  house  of  Israel." 

Now  I  do  not  think  that  when  we  get  to  the  other  world  tears  are 
going  to  cease  to  flow  nor  trouble  cease  to  enter  our  hearts,  for  the 
Prophet  Joseph  said  that  our  loved  ones  are  not  far  from  us,  and  they 
are  cognizant  of  what  we  are  doing,  and  some  of  our  actions  grieve 
them.  I  see  the  Savior  praying,  sympathizing  with  the  multitude  as  he 
did  in  mortality.  He  fed  the  hungry,  he  listened  to  the  complaints  of  the 
poor.  Remember  he  said  to  the  people  :  "The  poor  ye  have  always  with 
you." 

The  spirit  of  Christ  is  in  this  Welfare  movement.  It  is  going  to 
lead  us  upward  to  higher  and  still  higher  spiritual  heights,  for  Jesus  is 
behind  it.   "Holy  art  Thou,  Lord  God  Almighty."  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Hear  My  Supplication." 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  came  very  nearly  believing  that  this 
was  going  to  be  for  me  a  day  of  "passover,"  and,  had  it  been  such,  I  would 
not  have  been  at  all  worried.  The  only  thing  about  it  was  that  I  had  no 
mark  on  the  door  to  know  that  it  was  going  to  happen. 

I  have  been  more  than  pleased  with  the  spirit  of  this  conference, 
for  I  feel  that  every  April  Conference  that  we  have  should  be  a 
testimony  to  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We  are  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Our  lives  and  our  words  should  both  be 
testimonies  unto  the  world  of  the  divinity  of  this  organization,  of  the 
divinity  of  the  Man,  if  you  will  permit  me  to  call  him  a  man,  who 
caused  it  to  come  into  existence. 

If  I  could  spend  my  days  and  could  convert  the  world  to  that 
thought,  or  just  a  man  or  two  in  the  world,  I  would  feel  that  my  life  had 
been  a  most  successful  one. 

A  NEW  WITNESS  FOE  GOD 

We  have  heard  here  some  things  incident  to  the  life  and  the  activities 
of  our  Savior.  We  have  been  told  of  them  in  the  Bible,  almost  entirely 
in  the  New  Testament.  There  are  some  prophetic  utterances  in  the  Old 
Testament,  but  we  get  most  of  our  knowledge  of  Christ  from  the  New 
Testament  and  from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  We  call  the  Book  of 
Mormon — and  rightly  so — a  "new  witness  for  God,"  because  it  came 
along  to  corroborate  and  bear  out  the  story  of  the  writers  of  the  New 
Testament.  Now,  in  order  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  shall  be  a  new 
witness  for  God,  I  think  we  must  first  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon. 
In  order  to  believe  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  we  have  to  believe  in  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  to  accept  his  testimony  that  he  saw  God  and 
Jesus  Christ,  and  that  he  was  commissioned  by  divine  interposition  to 
restore  to  the  world  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

ARE  REASON  AND  STUDY  SUFFICIENT? 

Where  are  we  going  to  get  that  testimony?  Can  we  reason  our- 
selves into  it  by  studying  the  few  prophetic  utterances  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  that  have  already  come  to  pass  ?  Can  we  get  it  by  reading 
the  testimony  of  the  witnesses  on  the  fly-pages  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  ? 
Can  we  get  it  by  studying  the  archaeology  of  America  and  reasoning 
from  that  point  of  view  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  tells  a  true  story, 
and  that  consequently  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  prophet  ? 

From  some  source  we  must  get  this  testimony,  in  order  that  the 
Book  of  Mormon  may  be  for  us  a  new  witness  for  God. 

I  cannot  remember  a  time  in  my  life  when  I  have  very  seriously 
wondered  if  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  were  commissioned  of  God.  I 
grew  up  with  that  faith  in  my  heart  that  he  actually,  in  vision,  saw  God 
and  Jesus  Christ,  the  Angel  Moroni,  and  other  heavenly  beings,  and 
with  that  testimony  more  or  less  inherent  within  me,  I  have  never 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


129 


doubted  the  veracity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon.  As  I  grow  older  I  like 
to  dig  into  the  archaeology  and  the  enthnology  of  America  somewhat, 
mainly  with  a  view  of  getting  things  to  tell  other  people  that  might  help 
them  along  this  line.  But  I  find  that  there  is  in  the  minds  of  people  who 
have  studied  these  things  such  great  confusion  that  you  can  hardly  bring 
any  uniform  interpretation  out  of  their  studies  and  their  reports.  One 
man  reads  the  inscriptions  on  the  ruins  of  Mexico  as  far  as  he  can,  or 
looks  at  them  and  tries  to  interpret  them.  Another  man  does  exactly 
the  same  thing,  and  they  write  quite  divergent  reports  about  them. 
What  good  is  it  then  as  a  testimony  to  the  Book  of  Mormon? 

A  SURE  WAY 

There  is,  however,  to  me,  and  I  believe  there  should  be  to  you,  a  sure 
way  of  getting  at  that  question.  There  is  a  promise  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon  that  if  we  will  read  it  with  a  prayerful  heart  God  will  tell  us 
whether  it  is  true  or  not.  I  have  often  wondered  in  my  mind  just  why 
God  saw  fit  to  do  that  most  wonderful  thing  which  he  did  in  preserving 
and  bringing  to  light  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It  tells  us  many  interesting 
things  about  a  people  that  lived  on  this  continent,  and  it  tells  us  above 
all  others  of  the  visit  of  Christ  to  that  people,  and  the  more  I  study 
it  the  more  I  believe  that  the  purpose  God  had  in  mind  was  to  bring 
that  new  witness  of  Christ  to  light. 

THE  PRINCIPAL  PURPOSE  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

I  think  the  preservation  of  the  history  of  that  people  was  purely 
a  secondary  matter,  perhaps,  but  that  the  real  purpose  was  to  testify  anew 
to  the  life  of  Christ  and  his  mission  in  the  earth,  and  to  clarify  the 
doctrines  that  he  gave  us.  And  I  find  that  by  reading  it  through  and 
studying  it  from  that  point  of  view,  rather  than  one  of  history,  I  do 
have  a  feeling  and  a  testimony  when  I  get  through  with  the  book  that 
it  is  divine.  There  is  a  spirit  in  it,  there  is  a  whispering  to  your  soul, 
that  an  honest  man  cannot  deny. 

That  to  me  is  the  value  of  the  Book  of  Mormon. 

Now,  if  we  could  go  into  Mexico  and  Central  America  and  South 
America,  and  into  our  own  United  States,  and,  by  scraping  aside  the 
earth  which  has  accumulated  over  a  few  centuries,  expose  to  view  a 
consecutive  and  true  story  of  this  people  which  would  bear  out  in  all  its 
major  details  the  story  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  what  a  simple  thing 
it  would  be.    But  it  would  lose,  in  my  mind,  one  of  its  greatest  values. 

THE  IMPORTANCE  OF  FAITH 

We  are  blessed  as  much,  if  not  more,  by  the  acceptance  of  certain 
things  on  faith  than  to  accept  them  on  reason.  Whenever  we  can  reason 
ourselves  into  a  thing  we  get  a  certain  satisfaction  out  of  it,  it  is  true, 
but  whenever  through  faith  we  can  accept  the  life  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Lord  and  Master,  we  get  a  development  that  no  amount  of  reason  can 
ever  bring  to  us. 

I  believe  that  God  purposely  covered  up  these  things  that  when 


'msppuD  jo  suo  ;ou  'juids  stqj  3ABq  jjim  uouuop\[  jo  >joog  aqj  SinpBsa 
usqAV  'qaanq^  siq}  jo  saaquiaiu  aaB  oqA\  sn  jo  asoq}  }Bq;  ab.hI  j 

AN0WIJ.S3X  DNIAFI  V 

•sn  c\ 

amoa  jijav  ji  iBqj  ssau;iA\  jBaq  J  'Auouiusa;  }Bq}  sn  saiS  o}  poQ  >[sb  [jim 
puB  'qjnaj  aqj  a\ou>[  oj  aaisap  ano  ui  aaaouis  aaB-A"qBaa  aA\  ji  ;nq  '3110  issdn 
ubd  }Bq;  sSurq;  Aubiu  ooj  axe  sasqj  apnji;}B  jbdiujd  b  si  aaaq;  aaAaaaqM 
asueaaq  'AjpaijiaD  ;ou  'puau  Suumbui  ub  qjiM  ji  psaa  05  pjjoav  aqj  >(sb  puB 
'uouuojaj  jo  >pog  aq}  'poQ  aoj  ssaujiAV  A\au  b  pireq  }q§ia  ano  ui  A"aaB3 
3A\  puB  'poQ  ui  qjjBj  puB  aDUB}uadaa  o;  ppoM  aqi  Suqjra  'sassauiiM 
jBpads  qiaoj  oS  01  Ajnp  ano  uaqi  si  }j  "Ajnp  stqj  jo  aSaBqasq}  aqi  ut 
maqi  piB  01  pajpja  3q  oj  /Cipapuaaajaad  aaB  3A\  iBqi  puB  'uoipaaip  apq} 
aapun  aiBaado  puB  siuBuainaq  ;aaaip  aiaqi  aaB  sa\  iBqi  sn  jpj  o;  SB  jbj 
os  s3o3  sjubu3ao3  puB  suujDOQ  aqjL  'sapsody  3A[3Mj_  sq;  jo  spueq 
aqi  ppqdn  puB  }aoddns  01  uaiu  jo  Apoq  siqi  jo  Ajnp  jBtoadsa  aqi  si  ij 
■qoanq3  siqj  ui  A^uaAag  b  si  auo  ^pjBunxoaddB  'pooqjsauj  >ppazuppi^ 

91J1  UI  U3LU  U3A3S  A"j3A3  JQ     'PJJOAY  3ql  0}  AlI0UIl}S3}  IBqi  A"a.IBD  0}  SI  }I 

ssodand  asoqA\  pooqisaiaj  aqi  jo  A"poq  b  ABpoi  noA"  oj  lusssadsa  j 
S3iXN3Aas  aHi  ao  noissim  am 

•pOQ  JO  U3AI§  JJlS  B  SB  Sn  0}  S3UI0D  A"uoiuijs3i  sq;  inq 

'uiSuo  sji  oj  sb  uopssnb  ou  si  aaaqj  jBqj  auuuaaisp  puB  uoisnpuoo  b 
oj  3siui3jd  b  moaj  uosbsj  ubd  noX  jBq;  'saij  jsS  puB  asqjsSo;  33jqj  puB 
oa\}  ;nd  ubd  noA"  ;Bq;  jobj  sq;  iuojj  lou  ssiuod  Xuouiijss;  anoA!  u  pB3j 
noA"  usqAV  puB  'poQ  jo  J3A\od  aqj  Aq  p3}B[SUBj;  'uonisoda3;ui  3uiAip 
qSnoaq;  sn  o;  sujbo  11  :  paiBaa^npBun  sn  o;  suibd  ;j  'P°0  jo}  ssaujiM 
1B3.i§  sqj  si  ;Bq;  3iu  oj^  •aswBiu  pafqns  sqj  si  uoauoj/^  jo  >|oog  sqj 
sjsqM  ssssBp  A"pnis  qSnoaqj  sssoons  issjbsjS  apqj  ;aod3j  ssijbuoissiiu 
3^b;s  ano  jo  smog  -ppiOA\  sqj  jo  uoisjsauod  aqj  aoj  3abi[  A"[qissod 
ubd  3A\  ;blj;  'uisqj  jo  auo  ao  'uossaj  jssjb3jS  3qi  si  ji  3A3ipq  j 

aoo  ao  xaio  v  sv  sawoo  ANownsaj. 

•ji  jo  jno  ao  qaanq3  sq;  ut  si  sq  asqjsqM  auouiuss; 
jbijj  ;a§  jp.A\  'qjnaj  saqoBaj  ;i  ji  uaBaj  jiaids  jBqj  moaj  puB  'jiaids 
sji  uaB3j  |jiM  3q  jBqj  puiui  ui  ;q§noqj  sqj  qjiAV  uouiaoj\[  jo  >[00g  3qj 
qSnoaq}  spBsa  oqM  jnos  Suiainbui  issuoq  ^a3A3  ;Bq;  3A3qsq  j  -jpsuiiq 
po£)  Aq  Xjuo  sn  o}  usaiS  3q  ppoo  }Bqj  qjiBj  b  'qjiBj  uodn  isaa  o;  aABq 
pjnoM  ji  iqSq  O}  auioo  pjnoqs  ;i  uaqM  lBqi  os  'uouiaojAJ  jo  >iooj:[  aqj  jo 
iCao;s  aqi  puB  ajdoad  siqj  jo  Xao;siq  aq;  Ajmbque  ui  dn  paaaAoo  'aAaipq 
I  'Apsodand  SBq  po£)  puB  'ajq  ui  3uiq;  issjBaaS  aqj  si  sui  o;  qjiBj 

'3jq  siq  sSuBqo  oj  uiiq  pduii  pjnoM  qjiBj  'ji  oj  SuipaoDOB  saij 
pjnoM  aq  ao  'qjiBj  jo  >{aBds  b  jou  SBq  aq  '.  qjnaj  aqj  saaoujj  jiAap  aqj^ 
•up3§B  ami;  puB  aiuq  'a§paiA\ou>[  uBq;  a3}B3aS  si  quB^  'ssasAiun  aqi 
]|B  ui  aaMod  aApoui  jsa;Baa§  aqi  si  qjreg  'qjrej  uo  paidaaoB  aq  oj  aABq 
pjnoAv  u  uoiiBaausS  siqi  ui  ;qSij  oj  auioo  p|noqs  uouiaojAi  jo  >ioog  aq; 

3DN3X3JN0D  7VH3N3D  0£l 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


131 


not  one  necessarily  of  investigation  and  discovery,  except  in  so  far  as 
we  can  discover  the  spirit  of  God  speaking  to  the  hearts  of  men.  I  pray 
that  he  will  bless  us  with  his  spirit,  that  as  the  days  go  on  and  grow  into 
years,  and  as  the  years  pass  and  we  grow  toward  the  end  of  our  lives, 
that  we  may  realize  that  we  have  done  our  best  to  live  honorable,  upright 
lives,  to  be  a  credit  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
to  be  a  living  testimony  of  the  work  that  was  established  under  Jesus 
Christ.    God  grant  it.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

For  the  unbeliever  and  the  skeptic  I  imagine  I  have  a  panacea.  I 
think  were  he  permitted  to  sit  where  I  have  been  sitting  for  these  few 
days  looking  into  your  countenances,  he  would  in  very  deed  believe  on 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  do  not  think  it  is  possible  that  the  light,  the 
intelligence,  and  that  spirit  which  emanates  from  an  audience  such  as 
this  can  carry  other  than  conviction  even  to  the  heart  of  one  who  is  a 
firm  unbeliever. 

God  has  given  to  this  people  so  many  blessed  things  that  your  faces 
just  speak  them  out  loud.  It  has  been  said  that  our  life  here  is  but  a 
shadow  of  the  life  from  whence  we  came,  and  that  in  the  future  death 
will  be  but  a  shadow  of  the  life  which  we  personally  know  and  com- 
prehend while  we  are  living. 

THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON  PRAISED 

God  in  his  mercy  and  goodness  has  granted  to  us  all  this  knowledge 
and  all  this  understanding.  I  rejoice  beyond  my  ability  to  express  myself 
at  the  things  which  have  just  been  spoken  by  Brother  Ivins.  I  believe 
there  is  no  other  book  that  can  be  profitably  studied  by  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  particularly,  and  by  the  world  in 
general,  that  would  do  as  much  good  and  bring  the  same  conviction  to 
the  hearts  of  the  people  of  this  great  world  of  ours,  as  the  Book  of 
Mormon. 

At  least  fifteen  hundred  years  ago  there  was  penned  by  the  hand 
of  one  with  whom  we  became  acquainted  later  on,  a  record  which  was 
hid  up  and  which  contained  the  words  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ.  I  think  those  words  would  intrigue  anyone,  and  the  things  which 
are  written  in  this  great  and  marvelous  book — history,  adventure,  all 
that  one  could  desire  even  for  young  children — the  glamor  and  the  charm 
of  it  would  take  them  far. 

Moroni,  the  man  who  hid  up  the  record  of  these  things,  appeared 
to  Joseph  Smith,  September  21,  1823.  Later  he  appeared  time  after 
time  and  brought  this  sacred  record  with  the  careful  statement  that  it 
must  be  correctly,  accurately,  definitely,  positively  translated,  according 
to  the  will  and  promise  of  God.   Afterwards'  through  holy  messengers, 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  9  Third  Day 

came  the  declaration  that  it  had  been  translated  correctly  and  that  it 
contained  the  fulness  of  the  everlasting  Gospel. 

I  have  written  just  a  verse  or  two  from  this  book,  and  I  shall  ask 
you  to  bear  with  me  while  I  read  them.  Think  and  ponder  upon  what 
is  said : 

And  again,  my  beloved  brethren,  I  would  speak  unto  you  concerning 
hope.    How  is  it  that  ye  can  attain  unto  faith,  save  ye  shall  have  hope  ? 

And  what  is  it  that  ye  shall  hope  for?  Behold  I  say  unto  you 
that  ye  shall  have  hope  through  the  atonement  of  Christ  and  the  power 
of  his  resurrection,  to  be  raised  unto  life  eternal,  and  this  because  of 
your  faith  in  him  according  to  the  promise. 

Wherefore,  if  a  man  have  faith  he  must  needs  have  hope;  for  without 
faith  there  cannot  be  any  hope. 

And  again,  behold  I  say  unto  you  that  he  cannot  have  faith  and  hope, 
save  he  shall  be  meek  and  lowly  of  heart.    (Moroni  7:40-43.) 

And  so  I  ask  you,  do  you  know  a  people  anywhere  who  are  meek 
and  lowly  of  heart?  I  think  I  do.  I  think  I  know  they  are  meek  and 
lowly  of  heart  because  of  their  adherence  to  the  principles  which  God 
in  his  mercy  gave  in  purity  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 


HOME  MISSIONARY  WORK 

Your  sons  and  daughters  are  preaching  the  Gospel  in  every  land 
and  clime.  And  then,  I  would  remind  you  that  you  have  husbands 
and  sons  and  daughters  here  at  home  who  are  engaged  in  the  most 
magnificent  missionary  work  that  they  can  perform.  In  the  one  hun- 
dred and  twenty-seven  stakes  there  were  two  thousand  laboring  during 
the  past  year.  God  did  not  forget  them.  Approximately  eighteen 
hundred  souls  were  brought  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truth,  and  many 
hundreds  of  lukewarm  and  indifferent  members  were  brought  back  into 
a  state  of  activity. 

In  the  month  of  February  of  this  year,  the  shortest  month,  there 
were  two  hundred  and  seven  baptisms  in  the  stakes,  and  over  four 
hundred  inactive  members  of  the  Church  were  brought  into  activity. 
All  this  bears  a  great  testimony  to  the  faithfulness  of  the  missionaries. 
They  were  strengthened  in  their  testimonies. 

This  work  was  accomplished  through  the  local  stake  missions  last 
year  at  an  expense  of  only  $2.18  per  baptism. 

I  hardly  feel  sometimes  that  it  is  proper  to  ask  God  to  bless  his 
Church  because  this  is  God's  Church,  but  I  do  feel  to  ask  him  to  bless 
us  who  are  trying  to  carry  on.  May  he  make  us  strong,  hold  us  up  in 
our  weakness,  even  to  the  time  when  we  shall  attain  for  ourselves  that 
which  we  are  seeking:  eternal  rest  in  the  mansions  on  high,  I  humbly 
pray  in  Jesus'  name.  Amen. 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 


133 


ELDER  FRANK  EVANS 

President  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission 

I  realize  that  one  who  is  called  here  is  greatly  favored,  and  yet  that 
favor  is  not  given  to  him  because  of  himself,  but  because  of  the  fact  that 
he  is  engaged  in  the  humblest  of  service. 

If  I  were  to  ask  the  members  of  the  Church  in  the  Eastern  States 
Mission  as  to  what  would  be  their  choice  in  a  religious,  or  church,  ex- 
perience, I  feel  sure  that  most  of  them  would  say :  "The  privilege  of  at- 
tending a  General  Conference  of  the  Church." 

It  is  true  they  have  many  privileges  there.  Within  a  few  weeks 
many  of  those  within  a  radius  of  fifty  miles  of  Harmony  will  gather  on 
the  banks  of  the  Susquehanna  to  engage  in  a  _baptismal  service  at  the 
point  where  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  were  baptized,  and  will 
also  celebrate  the  restoration  of  the  Priesthood. 

A  little  later  in  the  summer  many  will  visit  the  Hill  Cumorah  and 
the  Sacred  Grove,  and  the  home  of  the  Prophet.  They  will  go  to  the 
little  old  farm,  the  cradle  of  the  Church,  the  place  where  six  young  men 
performed  the  necessary  service  of  organization — five  farmers  and  one 
school  master,  the  oldest  only  thirty,  the  youngest  slightly  over  nineteen. 

I  am  glad  that  all  of  those  places  are  much  as  they  were  a  hundred 
years  ago,  and  I  hope  they  will  remain  so.  There  is  no  encroachment,  to 
speak  of,  of  population.  They  are  still  only  humble  places..  I  wish  they 
could  have  seen — all  of  them — one  of  the  demonstrations  here  during 
this  conference,  and  I  refer  to  the  Singing  Mothers, -not  as  a  musical 
demonstration,  particularly,  but  as  something  far  more  than  that. 

I  think  if  there  had  been  a  student  in  this  audience  who  was  in- 
terested in  human  reactions  and  human  behavior,  he  would  have  seen 
something  very,  very  interesting.  Fifteen  hundred  minds  directed  to  a 
leader  here,  fifteen  hundred  spirits  responding  to  every  gesture  of  the 
leader  in  order  that  they  might  give  forth  their  message.  Was  there  one 
amongst  them  who  thought  she  was  surrendering  some  personal  liberty 
or  personal  privilege  by  acting  in  that  way  ? 

it  seems  to  me  that  here  was  an  achievement  in  leadership ;  but  more 
than  that,  in  the  high  art  of  following  it  was  a  triumph.  I  feel  it  was 
typical  of  the  leadership  in  this  Church,  men  who  lead  by  persuasion,  by 
long-suffering,  by  kindness  and  meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned. 

I  want  to  be  a  follower.  There  never  was  a  great  leader  unless  he 
had  first  learned  to  be  a  follower.  There  have  been  times  when  parents 
of  young  men  and  young  women  who  were  about  to  leave  for  the  mis- 
sion field  have  asked  me  what  their  preparation  should  be,  that  is,  what 
they  should  take  with  them.  Now,  after  nearly  two  years  of  work  in  the 
mission  field  I  am  ready  to  say  that  I  cannot  answer  that  question  in 
terms  of  material  things  alone,  but  most  importantly  of  all,  let  them  come 
to  us  with  the  Spirit  of  God  in  their  hearts,  with  a  willingness  to  be- 
lieve.   "Be  ye  faithful  and  believing." 

If  they  bring  with  them  humility  and  the  willingness  to  believe  then 
all  else  will  be  added'  unto  them. 
May  God  bless  you.  Amen. 


134 

Sunday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Thitd  Day 


ELDER  RULON  S.  HO  WELLS 

Formerly  President  of  the  Brazilian  Mission 

I  had  much  less  fear  in  the  jungles  of  Brazil  than  I  feel  upon  this 
occasion.   I  am  indeed  humble  before  such  an  awe-inspiring  assemblage. 

This  year  marks  the  centennial  of  the  Church's  missionary  work 
abroad.  I  am  pleased  to  make  a  report  of  one  of  the  latest,  or  perhaps 
the  last,  foreign  mission  opened  up  by  the  Church — the  Brazilian  Mission 
in  South  America.  In  1930,  through  the  efforts  of  a  few  missionaries 
sent  out  from  Buenos  Aires,  Argentina,  converts  were  baptized  and  a 
branch  was  established  in  a  small  town  in  the  southern  part  of  Brazil. 
In  1935,  just  four  year?  ago  now,  we  were  called  to  open  the  Brazilian 
Mission.  Since  that  time,  with  the  splendid  cooperation  of  your  mis- 
sionary sons,  and  the  great  leading  spirit  of  the  Lord  which  has  been 
with  us  in  that  work,  eight  branches  in  that  great  country  are  now  part 
of  our  Church. 

Inasmuch  as  this  is  the  first  report  of  this  new  mission,  you  might 
be  interested  in  knowing  that  our  work  up  until  just  recently  has  been 
carried  on  solely  among  the  European  colonists  who  have  been  settling 
Brazil  for  the  past  hundred  years,  more  particularly  among  the  German 
people.  We  have 'many  stalwart  members  and  fine  friends  among  these 
people. 

Ours  has  been  a  pioneering  work  and  in  many  of  the  villages  and 
towns  where  the -missionaries  have  gone  the  name  "Latter-day  Saint"  or 
''Mormon"  had  never  been  heard  before.  It  didn't  take  the  adversary 
very  long  to  catch  up  and  circulate  the  usual  falsehoods. 

In  one  town  three  of  our  missionaries  were  mobbed  and  driven  out, 
but  fortunately  sustained  no  personal  injuries.  Not  long  after  that 
time,  missionaries  returned  to  this  same  town  and  were  able  to  establish 
one  of  the  finest  primaries  we  have  in  the  mission.  At  the  last  conference 
I  attended  there  the  hall  where  we  have  our  meetings  would  not  hold  all 
the  people.  There  were  people  in  that  town  waiting  for  the  truth  and 
with  the  help  of  the  Lord  the  power  of  Satan  was  stayed.  Since  then 
several  have  been  baptized  there  in  that  same  village  and  the  work  is 
going  forward. 

While  our  work  was  carried  on  among  these  German-speaking 
people  we  were  able  to  get  the  Book  of  Mormon  translated  into  the 
Portuguese  language,  the  common  language  of  the  great  country  of 
Brazil,  and  now  many  missionaries  are  engaged  in  proclaiming  the  re- 
stored Gospel  in  this  language,  and  the  work  will  go  on  even  more  rapidly. 

Through  the  translation  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  into  the  Portuguese 
language  the  way  has  been  opened  to  nearly  forty  million  Portuguese- 
speaking  people  who  may  hear  the  Gospel  in  their  native  tongue  for  the 
first  time.  Through  the  work  of  proclaiming  the  restored  Gospel  in  the 
Portuguese  language  in  Brazil,  new  evidences  of  the  authenticity  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon  are  coming  forth. 

Just  recently  in  the  upper  region  of  the  Amazon  Basin  hieroglyphics 


ELDER  RULON  S.  HOWELLS 


135 


resembling  some  form  of  Egyptian  scroll  engravings  have  been  found. 
The  Brazilians  are  puzzled.  They  can't  find  any  Egyptian  relationship 
with  Brazil's  history.  The  development  will  be  interesting  to  us  as  a 
people,  I  am  sure. 

Brazil  and  the  Brazilians  are  and  have  been  friendly  to  the  United 
States  and  we  find  very  little  difficulty  in  general  in  preaching  the  Gospel 
in  that  great  country.  We  are  a  long  way  from  headquarters  here  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  I  would  like  to  express  gratitude  and  appreciation 
for  the  splendid  cooperation  and  support  received  from  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  General  Authorities.  We  have  felt  their  sustaining 
prayers  and  faith. 

This  is  a  marvelous  organization  and  system  that  we  have  here  in 
this  great  Church.  Without  the  spirit  of  the  Lord  and  the  sacrifices  of 
humble  people  very  little  can  be  accomplished.  You  parents  and  relatives 
who  are  supporting  missionaries  are  in  very  deed  showing  your  love 
for  the  Gospel  and  your  fellow  men  in  enabling  these  young  men  and 
women  to  be  messengers  of  light  to  a  tired  and  weary  world. 

In  one  of  the  large  cities  of  Brazil  recently  a  very  well  trained  and 
educated  man  asked  me  why  we  didn't  concentrate  and  send  missionaries 
to  the  so-called  heathen  countries  and  nations  as  most  other  churches 
do.  I  told  him  that  I  thought  perhaps  the  Lord  was  more  dissatisfied 
with  those  generally  who  profess  to  follow  him  and  those  who  bear  his 
name  than  with  those  who  do  not  profess  to  be  such.  He  said,  "I  agree, 
and  may  your  people  succeed  in  such  a  great  undertaking." 

It  was  my  privilege  to  be  traveling  in  far-off  India  a  few  years  ago 
and  going  around  with  a  native,  a  so-called  heathen  or  non-Christian. 
I  remarked  on  the  large  number  of  American  automobiles  used  there 
by  the  natives.  He  replied  rather  philosophically,  "If  the  American 
religion  or  religions  would  work  as  well  as  the  American  automobiles, 
we  non-Christians  would  accept  them  as  we  do  the  automobiles." 

My  testimony  has  been  strengthened  by  witnessing  how  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  actually  works  for  the  salvation  of  the  soul  in  the  daily 
lives  of  Latter-day  Saints  more  universally  than  in  any  other  form, 
creed,  or  symbol  to  be  found  upon  the  earth  today.  I  feel  there  is  a 
great  future  for  the  Gospel  in  Brazil  and  South  America  and  that  there 
are  many  souls  who  are  waiting  for  the  truth. 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  to  the  divinity  of  this  work  and  ask  the 
Lord's  blessings  upon  us,  that  we  may  so  live  that  we  will  be  an  example 
of  light  and  peace  to  the  world'.  I  do  so  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  9  Third  Dag 

ELDER  EL  RAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

President  of  the  Texas  Mission 

I  was  called  up  here,  once  before,  five  minutes  before  it  was  time  to 
close.  I  have  never  bad  any  sickness  in  my  life,  never  been  to  the  hospital, 
I  have  never  had  a  pain,  but  I  do  believe  I  know  what  it  means  to  suffer. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  feel  honored  to  have  the  privilege  to  represent 
here  today  the  sixty-two  hundred  members  of  the  Church  in  Texas 
and  Louisiana,  and  the  ninety-seven  missionaries  who  are  laboring  there 
so  valiantly  for  the  work  of  the  Lord.   We  have  a  great  mission. 

I  was  going  to  read  some  statistics  that  I  thought  would  interest 
you,  but  perhaps  I  will  not  have  time.  I  would  like  to  remind  some  of 
the  brothers  and  sisters  here,  who  are  not  aware  of  it,  that  our  mission 
is  larger  than  Utah,  Idaho,  Wyoming,  and  Nevada  put  together.  We 
have  twenty-three  thousand  square  miles  more  than  the  combined  area 
of  the  following  states:  Maine,  New  Hampshire,  Vermont,  Massa- 
chusetts, Rhode  Island,  Connecticut,  New  Jersey,  Delaware,  Maryland, 
New  York,  Pennsylvania,  Virginia,  West  Virginia,  and  Ohio.  Some  of 
the  people  have  said,  "Well,  you  must  have  it  mighty  nice  to  have  a 
small  mission  so  you  can  get  around."  I  looked  up  these  figures  and 
Brother  Rowan  helped  me  find  some  of  them. 

Texas  has  fifty-three  thousand  square  miles  more  territory  than 
France — Texas  alone — and  eighty-three  thousand  square  miles  more 
than  Germany;  and  has  two  hundred  and  fifty-four  counties.  We  are 
told  that  Russia  is  the  only  European  country  that  has  more  territory 
than  the  State  of  Texas. 

Now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  I  believe  that  these  ninety-seven 
missionaries  are  helping  to  fulfill  in  a  splendid  way  one  of  the  greatest 
obligations  that  this  Church  has  to  the  world.  And  I  believe  that  one  of 
our  great  responsibilities  is  to  preach  this  Gospel  to  the  world.  Here 
we  have  been  rejoicing  in  each  other's  presence  in  hearing  the  word  of 
the  Lord  preached  and  in  hearing  this  beautiful  music  rendered.  I  wish 
to  commend  those  who  have  done  it,  and  yet  upon  the  hands  of  this 
people  was  given  the  responsibility  of  taking  this  very  thing  to  the  world. 
I  know  that  we  are  doing  a  commendable  job,  but  I  believe  that  there 
are  more  that  could  become  conscious  of  this  great  obligation  that  we  have 
to  the  people  of  the  world. 

"This  is  my  work  and  my  glory,  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
the  eternal  life  of  man."  That  doesn't  mean  just  us.  Everyone  is  entitled 
to  this  grand  and  glorious  privilege  of  having  the  Gospel  plan  taught  to 
him. 

The  missionaries  are  well.  I  thank  you  for  your  sons  and  your 
daughters  and  for  your  husbands.  We  have  some  fine  husbands  there 
who  are  doing  marvelous  work.  They  have  the  true  spirit  with  them, 
they  have  the  fire  of  the  Priesthood,  they  are  magnifying  that  power,  and 
the  manifestations  of  healing  and  of  testimony  that  they  exhibit  are 
inspiring  indeed  to  all  of  us  who  work  with  them.   They  have  more  than 


ELDER  EL  RAY  CHRISTIANSON 


137 


they  can  attend  to.  The  day  before  I  left  we  had  gained. permission  from 
the  superintendent  of  the  Houston  City  Schools,  who  is  an  attorney, 
to  take  our  lecture  on  The  Book  of  Mormon  before  the  teachers  and 
before  the  students  of  certain  classes  in  those  schools.  They  are  friendly 
to  us.  We  are  happy  that  we  are  able  to  meet  with  them  and  to  teach 
them  the  divinity  of  this  great  record  that  we  have.  " 

These  missionaries  have  taken  two  hundred  and  seventy-nine  souls 
into  the  waters  of  baptism  during  the  year  1938.  Two  hundred  of  them 
were  matured  people,  and  today  those  two  hundred — I  have  interviewed 
most  of  them — are  rejoicing  in  the  wonderful  principles  of  the  Gospel. 
I  feel  so  happy.  I  feel  like  Alma  did  as  recorded  I  believe  in  the  29th 
Chapter  of  Alma: 

O  that  I  were  an  angel,  and  could  have  the  wish  of  mine  heart,  that  I 
might  go  forth  and  speak  with  the  trump  of  God,  with  a  voice  to  shake  the 
earth,  and  cry  repentance  unto  every  people. 

A  missionary  says  that  his  two  years  in  the  mission  field  are  the 
happiest  two  years  of  his  life.  I  wonder  why.  I  used  to  think  that  was  just 
a  commonplace  statement,  but  now  I  know  the  answer.  During  that  period 
of  service  in  the  Lord's  work  they  are  living  near  unto  him.  They  pray. 
They  realize  and  recognize  the  need  of  prayer  and  the  need  of  the 
Lord's  help  in  their  work.  They  are  living  clean  lives.  We  don't  have 
to  admonish  them,  so  far  as  I  know,  to  live  the  Word  of  Wisdom.  They 
do  it — and  why  shouldn't  they  be  happy  when  they  prepare  themselves 
and  qualify  themselves  to  have  this  great  blessing  that  the  Lord  has 
promised  to  those  who  are  faithful. 

I  have  been  thinking,  all  through  this  conference,  why  is  it  that  we 
Latter-day  Saints  who  know  this  thing  to  be  genuine,  who  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  why  is  it  that  we  have  to  be  told 
more  than  once  to  obey  the  principles  that  are  presented  to  us  here  in 
every  conference  and  in  every  stake  conference  ?  Surely  we  could  be 
valiant ;  we  could  be  courageous ;  and  rise  to  the  occasion  and  live  these 
wonderful  principles  so  that  we  can  inherit  the  blessing  that  God  has 
given. 

I  am  taking  somebody  else's  time. 

I  ask  for  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  upon  you  people  here  at  home. 
I  wish  you  knew  how  much  you  can  help  us  by  living  this  Gospel  and 
meeting  other  people,  as  you  should,  when  they  come  to  visit  you. 
Nearly  a  half  million  people  visit  here  in  the  stakes  of  Zion  each  year,  and 
they  come  back  there  with  fine  reports  for  the  most  part.  But  I  tell  you 
they  come  out  here  to  learn  about  us  and  to  see  what  they  can  see ;  and  if 
you  can  prove  by  your  good  works  that  Mormonism  is  what  it  is  supposed 
to  be,  that  is  going  to  give  us  one  of  the  greatest  lifts  that  you  can 
give  us  in  the  mission  field. 

I  know  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord.  I  know  that  he  will  bless 
us  when  we  qualify  for  his  blessings.  God  bless  you  all,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


138 

Sunday,  April  9 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


ELDER  PHILEMON  M.  KELLY 

Formerly  President  of  the  Swiss-German  Mission 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends  of  the  Church,  I  am 
very  desirous  of  giving  just  a  brief  report  of  existing  conditions  in  the 
German-speaking  missions.  I  have  presided  over  all  three  of  these 
missions,  having  had  the  privilege  of  organizing  the  West  German 
Mission. 

We  have  in  these  missions  approximately  fifteen  thousand  souls.  I 
wish  to  report  to  you  good  people  that  they  are  among  the  most  devoted 
members  of  the  Church  at  the  present  hour.  They  are  strong  in  paying 
their  tithes  and  offerings.  They  are  very  devoted  unto  the  authorities 
of  the  Church,  and  they  literally  worship  our  President. 

I  have  also  had  the  privilege,  in  connection  with  my  good  wife,  of 
visiting  the  Holy  Land.  Among  other  things  we  saw  some  of  the 
mountains  on  which  the  ancient  Prophet  Elijah  stood.  You  will  re- 
member at  one  time  he  went  to  the  mountain  of  Horeb,  and  as  he  stood 
upon  the  mountain  top  the  voice  of  the  Lord  commanded  him  to  stand 
and  observe.  "And  a  great  and  strong  wind  came  and  rent  the  moun- 
tains, and  it  broke  the  rocks  before  the  Lord,  but  the  Lord  was  not  in 
the  wind ;  and  after  the  wind  an  earthquake,  but  the  Lord  was  not  in 
the  earthquake ;  and  after  the  earthquake  a  fire,  but  the  Lord  was  not 
in  the  fire.  And  after  the  fire  a  still,  small  voice.  And  so  it  was  when 
Elijah  heard  it  he  wrapped  his  face  in  his  mantle." 

I  wish  to  bear  testimony  that  I,  too,  have  felt  the  presence  of  the 
still,  small  voice  while  in  the  mission  field.  I  am  going  to  take  the  privi- 
lege of  just  giving  one  illustration. 

In  1937  President  Grant  and  his  party  visited  us  in  Germany  and 
Switzerland.  In  Basel,  Switzerland,  he  honored  us  by  remaining  as 
our  guest  in  the  mission  home.  Early  one  Sunday  morning  twenty-six 
lady  members  from  the  Basel  branch  came  to  the  mission  home.  They 
were  dressed  in  white.  As  President  Grant  descended  the  stairs  to  come 
into  the  reception  room  the  girls  began  singing,  "We  Thank  Thee  O 
God  for  a  Prophet."  In  President  Grant's  party  there  were  various 
mission  presidents.  There  was  such  a  sweet  spirit  of  peace  and  love 
and  affection  for  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  surrounding  us.  Only  those 
who  were  present  could  understand.  We  all  bowed  our  heads  in  worship. 
Some  of  the  brethren  from  other  missions  not  only  bowed  their  heads 
in  worship  but  wept  tears  of  joy  and  appreciation  at  having  felt  the 
presence  of  the  Lord  and  knowing  that  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  was  in 
our  midst. 

The  German  and  Swiss  people  honor  and  love  President  Grant. 
There  could  be  no  request  made  by  him  but  what  they  would,  to  a  hun- 
dred percent,  follow  out  that  desire. 

I  bear  testimony  unto  you  that  those  people  themselves  do  not 
want  war.   War  is  from  a  different  source  than  from  the  people.  Those 


ELDER  W.  AIRD  MACDONALD 


139 


people  are  a  devoted  people ;  they  love  life ;  they  love  liberty ;  they  love 
the  pursuit  of  happiness.    They  are  devoted  members  of  the  Church. 

They  requested  when  we  left  for  home :  "Just  simply  tell  the  truth 
about  us  as  a  people." 

May  God  make  our  hearts  in  attune  with  those  things  that  are  real. 
May  we  overcome  false  propaganda,  and  may  we  serve  God  in  truth 
and  keep  his  commandments,  I  pray  most  humbly  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  W.  AIRD  MACDONALD 

President  of  the  California  Mission 

Someone  has  said  that  in  every  group  or  gathering  will  be  found 
someone  to  say  a  good  word  for  California.    We  barely  made  it  today. 

I  am  honored  to  bring  to  you  the  greetings  of  one  hundred  and 
twenty-three  missionaries  and  nearly  eleven  thousand  Saints  in  the  great 
California  Mission.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  being  carried  for- 
ward and  the  Church  is  being  planted  all  over  that  goodly  land.  There 
are  fifty-five  organized  branches  of  the  Church,  whe.re  the  Saints  are 
being  taught  the  Gospel  and  are  keeping  the  commandments  of  God. 

We  are  happy  to  report  to  you  that  in  their  tithes  and  offerings  they 
are  keeping  pace  with  the  stakes  of  Zion.  I  echo  the  testimony  of  the 
truth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  as  given  by  President  Ivins  and  President 
Hardy,  and  say  to  you  that  out  there  in  that  mission  nearly  seventeen 
thousand  copies  of  that  sacred  record  have  been  distributed  during  the 
past  year.  We  believe  the  Lord  intended  that  this  book  should  be  read 
by  the  world,  for  he  sent  the  Angel  Moroni  fifteen  times  to  this  planet 
to  see  that  it  was  properly  printed,  that  the  world  might  be  taught  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ ;  and  unless  we,  as  a  people,  see  to  it  that  this  sacred 
record  is  distributed  among  his  confused  children  on  the  earth,  they  will 
not  be  sure  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ.  For  they  all  read  the  selfsame  Bible 
and  are  going  in  hundreds  of  different  ways,  evidencing  their  confusion. 
So  I  believe  that  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  the  means  the  Lord  has  given 
us  as  a  new  witness  for  God  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 

May  we  as  a  people  rise  to  this  great  responsibility  and  carry  for- 
ward our  work.  I  bear  testimony  to  you  that  it  is  the  truth  and  pray 
God  to  bless  us  all  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  A.  LORENZO  ANDERSON 

President  of  the  Mexican  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that  President  Christiansen  is  not 
the  only  one  who  has  been  suffering  the  last  few  minutes ;  I  did  not  know 
that  President  Grant  ever  ran  a  meeting  fifteen  minutes  overtime.  I 
appreciate  the  compliment  he  has  paid  to  us  mission  presidents,  in  allow- 
ing these  few  minutes  to  those  of  us  who  have  not  had  the  opportunity 
of  reporting  to  you. 

Running  through  my  mind  all  during  this  Conference  have  been 
these  words  of  the  Savior  : 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits.  Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns, 
or  figs  of  thistles? 

Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth  forth  good  fruit ;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil  fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree 
bring  forth  good  fruit. 

Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth  good  fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast 
into  the  fire. 

Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall  know  them.   (Matt.  7:16-20). 

I  am  sure  that  anyone  who  can  see  the  fruits  of  Mormonism  today 
cannot  help  but  agree  with  us  that  the  tree  is  good. 
I  have  rejoiced  greatly  in  this  conference. 

We  are  having  wonderful  success  in  the  Mexican  Mission.  As  I 
reported  to  you  six  months  ago,  we  are  limited  to  one  lone  stake  to  fur- 
nish the  missionaries  who  may  serve  in  the  Mexican  Mission.  I  believe 
that  Mexico  is  the  only  nation  in  all  the  world  which  requires  of  its  minis- 
ters that  they  be  native-born  citizens  of  the  country  before  they  are  al- 
lowed to  preach  the  Gospel ;  therefore  we  are  very  much  alarmed.  I  said  to 
one  of  the  bishops  of  the  Juarez  Stake  yesterday :  "If  you  have  any  more 
sixty-six  year  old  men  who  can  come  into  the  mission  field  and  do  like 
one  of  the  missionaries  of  that  age  who  is  now  working  in  the  Mexican 
Mission,  send  them  along." 

When  this  brother  arrived  in  the  mission  field,  Sister  Anderson  said : 
"Please  do  not  send  him  out  into  the  country  to  work  with  the  rest  of 
the  boys,  keep  him  here  in  the  city  where  I  can  look  after  him.  He  is  too 
old  to  go  out  and  preach  the  Gospel." 

He  was  quite  offended  when  I  told  him  that  Sister  Anderson  wanted  • 
to  keep  him  under  her  wing.  He  said :  "I  can  take  it  along  with  any  of  the 
boys." 

I  appreciate  the  leadership  we  have  in  the  Church  today  and  the  ex- 
cellent spirit  that  exists,  and  I  do  know  that  we  have  the  authority  of 
God  to  preach  his  Gospel  here  in  the  world.  May  he  bless  us  and  help 
us  at  all  times,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


I  know  we  can  stand  a  selection  by  the  choir,  and  inasmuch  as 
we  are  to  have  "The  Hallelujah  Chorus"  from  "The  Messiah,"  by  the 
choir,  I  am  prolonging  the  meeting  a  little.  I  know  that  you  will  wait 
to  hear  this  selection. 


I  rejoice  in  the  remarkable  and  splendid  Conference  we  have  had. 
It  has  been  a  source  of  sorrow  to  me  to  be  absent  part  of  the  time.  I  am 
feeling  fine,  physically.  Speaking  of  old  age,  Brother  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose lacked  only  a  few  weeks  of  being  seventy-five  when  he  came  to 
Liverpool  to  preside  over  the  European  and  British  Missions,  and  he  per- 
formed— at  least  the  missionaries  did  during  his  administration — many 
more  baptisms  than  did  Francis  M.  Lyman  and  Heber  J.  Grant.  Brother 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


REGARDING  AGE 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


141 


Penrose  was  there  three  years,  and  we  had  five  years.  So  you  must  not 
think  that  age  counts  when  it  comes  to  spreading  the  Gospel.  If  they 
have  the  root  of  the  matter  in  them  and  are  healthy,  just  let  them  go  out 
and  work. 

BECAUSE  WE  HAVE  THE  TRUTH 

I  thank  the  Lord  for  this  remarkable  and  wonderful  Conference  we 
have  had.  No  such  conference  could  be  held  by  any  other  people  in  all  the 
wide  world.  Why  is  it  that  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  such  a  spirit  with 
them  ?  Why  is  it  that  every  missionary  who  fulfills  a  good  mission  says 
it  is  the  best  time  of  his  life  ?  It  is  because  we  have  the  truth  and  they  are 
nearer  to  the  Lord  when  in  the  mission  field  than  in  any  other  place. 

May  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  be  and  abide  with  all  of  you.  May 
you  go  home  under  the  inspiration  of  the  spirit  that  has  been  with  us, 
first,  last,  and  all  time. 

I  apologize  to  Brother  Rulon  S.  Wells  for  not  having  him  speak. 
Brother  Wells,  you  know,  is  past  eighty,  and  so  am  I.  We  had  him  speak 
to  us  in  the  temple,  and  then  we  asked  him  to  speak  again  today,  after  the 
morning  meeting,  to  the  German  Saints. 


The  Choir  sang  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  from  "The  Messiah,"  (Han- 
del), after  which  the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  William  R. 
Palmer,  President  of  the  Parowan  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  musical  exercises  at  the  Thursday  sessions  were  furnished  by 
the  Relief  Society  Singing  Mothers,  Wade  N.  Stephens,  Conductor ;  at 
the  Friday  sessions  by  the  Nebo  Stake  Choir,  J.  D.  Christensen,  Con- 
ductor ;  and  at  the  Sunday  sessions  by  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor.  The  congregational  singing  was  di- 
rected by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  and  Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played  by 
Frank  W.  Asper. 

Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson, 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Anderson,  Elder  A.  Lorenzo  139 

Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  0   96 

An  expression  of  appreciation,  96 — What  of  our  real  accomplish- 
ments, 97 — Some  problems  presented,  98 — A  plea  for  more  think- 
ing, 98 — Experience  of  a  farmer,  98. 

Auditing  Committee's  Report   10 

Authorities  Present     1 

Authorities,  Presentation  of    10 

Ballard,  Elder  Melvin  J   65 

Ward  choirs  encouraged,  65 — The  mission  of  the  Church,  65 — 
Revelation  points  the  way  to  life  eternal,  66 — Honesty  should 
characterize  the  Latter-day  Saints,  66 — Obedience  to  command- 
ments brings  blessings,  67 — Sowing  and  reaping,  68 — Power  in  the 
Church,  69. 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.     27 

Proper  leadership  needed,  27 — The  power  to  develop  leadership, 
28 — First  element  of  true  leadership,  28 — Leadership  through 
Church  activity,  29 — Better  qualified  to  preach  Gospel,  30. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   92 

Relief  in  God  the  basis  of  religion,  92 — Another  basic  principle,  93 — 
Christ's  teachings  a  stabilizing  force,  94 — Jesus  as  a  teacher,  94 — 
A  guide  to  life,  94 — Spiritual  regeneration  will  come  through  faith, 
95 — The  triumph  of  right,  96. 

Broadbent,  Elder  David  A.   24 

Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   103 

Broadcast,  Church  of  the  Air  104 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A  125 

Jesus  moving  among  men,  125 — The  road  to  heaven,  126 — Christ 
the  author  of  every  good  and  perfect  gift,  126 — The  resurrected 
Lord,  127. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   82 

Marriage  and  divorce,  82 — Temple  marriages,  82 — Parental  re- 
sponsibility, 83 — Home  the  foundation  of  society,  84 — Preparation 
for  Church  membership,  84 — An  army  of  young  people,  84— Train- 
ing of  children,  85 — Health  training,  85 — Moral  standards  and  men- 
tal development,  85 — Develop  local  industries,  86 — Patronize  local 
products,  86. 

Changes  in  Church  Officers   7 

'Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast   103 

Christiansen,  Elder  El  Ray  L  136 

Church  of  the  Air  Broadcast  -  104 

Church  Welfare  Committee    12 

Church  Welfare  Program  Report   5 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   54 

Urges  care  be  exercised  in  driving  automobiles,  54 — President 

Grant  absent  because  of  illness,  54. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  104 


INDEX 


143 


Righteousness  at  war  with  sin,  104 — Christ's  mission  perfect  and 
complete,  105 — -Responsibilities  attending  homemaking,  105 — Na- 
tional stability  depends  upon  true  homes,  106 — Filial  obedience  en- 
joined, 106 — Charge  to  parents,  107 — Revelations  cite  parental  lax- 
ness,  107 — Children  to  be  taught  Gospel  principles,  108 — Char- 
acter to  be  built  in  the  home,  109 — Greed  for  gain  destroying 
Christian  standards,  109 — Proper  teaching  a  shield  in  temptation, 
110 — Home  fundamental  to  civic  and  religious  life,  110. 

Clawson,  President  Rudger   116 

Purpose  in  life  brings  happiness,  116 — Experiences  before  our 
earth  life,  117 — Evil  present  in  the  world,  118 — A  school  of  ex- 
perience, 119 — A  fulness  of  joy,  119 — The  body  a  precious  gift,  119. 

Evans,  Elder  Frank  133 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.    .   69 

Influences  surrounding  growing  children,  69 — Comparison  between 
present  and  former  conditions,  70 — Movement  away  from  Utah, 
71 — Home  influence  far-reaching,  71 — -Prophecies  sure  of  fulfil- 
ment, 71 — A  testimony,  72. 

Eyring,  Elder  Carl  F   47 

Financial  Statement   2 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting     31 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting   2 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church   10 

General  Authorities  Present  —   1 

General  Auxiliary  Officers    12 

General  Officers  of  the  Church   11 

Grant,  President  Heber  J   13 

Marvelous  record  of  attendance  at  Conferences,  13 — Individual 
testimonies  of  Latter-day  Saints,  14 — A  tribute  to  Orson  Pratt 
and  other  leaders,  14 — Testimony  of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery,  14 — Growth  of  the  Church,  IS — A  revelation  given  in 
Liberty  Jail,  IS — Welfare  work  receives  praise,  16 — Colonel 
Hawes'  compliment,  16 — Nomination  as  Governor  refused,  17 — 
President  Woodruff's  answer,  17 — Everything  in  a  belief  involving 
future  existence,  18 — Knowledge  must  be  put  into  practice,  18 — 
Invokes  blessing,  19. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.   31 

Avoid  auto  accidents,  31. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.  75 

Gratitude  for  work  of  singing  organizations,  75. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.   140 

Regarding  age,  140 — Because  we  have  the  truth,  141. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K  131 

The  Book  of  Mormon  praised,  131 — Home  missionary  work,  132. 

Hinckley,  Elder  Bryant  S   61 

Howells,  Elder  Rulon  S  134 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R    128 

A  new  witness  for  God,  128 — Are  reason  and  study  sufficient?,  128 
— A  sure  way,  129 — The  principal  purpose  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 


144 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


129 — The  importance  of  faith,  129 — Testimony  comes  as  a  gift  of 
God,  130 — The  mission  of  the  Seventies,  130 — -A  living  testimony, 
130. 

Kelly,  Elder  Philemon  M  138 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R   32 

Dates  of  important  events,  32 — Answers  to  prayer  cited,  33 — An 
appeal  for  family  prayers,  35 — Joseph  Smith's  prayer  in  Liberty 
Jail,  36 — Quotations  from  a  young  man's  letter,  37 — Admonition 
to  seek  the  Lord,  37 

MacDonald,  Elder  W.  Aird   139 

McKay,  President  David  0   2 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report,  2. 

McKay,  President  David  O.   10 

Sustaining  of  Church  Authorities,  10. 

McKay,  President  David  O     76 

President  Grant  absent  on  advice  of  physician,  76. 

McKay,  President  David  0   99 

Service  of  peace  officers  commended,  99. 

McKay,  President  David  O  Ill 

The  need  of  the  world  for  the  teachings  of  the  Savior,  111 — 
Christ's  apostles  witnesses  of  the  resurrection,  112 — Mark's  testi- 
mony, 113 — Paul's  testimony,  114 — Latter-day  Saint  belief,  115. 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   87 

Reasons  for  Church-wide  campaign,  87 — -Newspapers  voice  warn- 
ing against  liquor,  87 — Danger  from  intoxicated  drivers,  88 — 
Opinion  of  United  States  Senator,  89 — Cost  of  liquor  and  tobacco, 
89 — Subtle  propaganda,  90 — Bills  passed  by  Legislature,  90 — 
Booklets  issued  by  Church  committee,  90 — Assistance  needed,  91 
— Obligation  rests  upon  Church,  91. 

Nibley,  Elder  Preston   63 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   57 

Plans  made  in  councils  of  heaven,  58 — Punishment  of  those  not 
valiant,  58 — -Consequences  of  rejecting  the  Gospel,  59 — The  hope 
of  reward,  60 — Object  lessons  from  the  past,  60. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand    42 

The  principle  of  giving,  43 — The  Gospel  requires  service,  43 — 
More  than  service  required,  44 — Promises  of  the  Lord,  45— Em- 
ployment should  be  provided,  45. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L   38 

Man's  place  in  the  universe,  38 — Power  of  choice  a  gift  from  God, 
38 — Liberty  essential  to  man,  39 — Opinion  of  a  noted  author,  39 
— Free  agency  exercised  through  knowledge,  40 — Faith  the  key 
to  knowledge,  41 — Truth  and  liberty,  41 — -True  liberty  and  indi- 
vidual achievement,  41 — The  mission  of  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
42. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    76 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting   55 

Seegmiller,  Elder  William  W   46 


INDEX 


145 


Smith,  Elder  David  A   49 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert  120 

Evidences  establishing  the  fact  of  the  resurrection,  120 — Additional 
testimony  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  121 — Joseph  Smith's  experi- 
ence, 122 — Direct  revelation  from  God,  122 — Blessings  bring  re- 
sponsibility, 123 — Inspiration  gives  understanding,  124 — Joy  in 
laboring  in  the  Church,  12S. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding     100 

Knowledge  alone  will  not  save,  100 — Revelation  needed,  101 — 
Pure  intelligence  brings  obedience,  102 — Education  reaches  into 
eternity,  102 — Teachers  should  seek  the  Spirit  of  God,  103. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed        55 

A  day  of  extravagance,  55 — The  faith  of  a  President,  56 — The 
divorce  evil,  57. 

Statistical  Report   „.   4 

Taylor,  Elder  John  H.  _     80 

Opportunities  given  the  Latter-day  Saints,  80 — Priesthood  in- 
tended for  service,  80 — "Harmonizers,"  81 — Many  blessings,  81. 

Tew,  Elder  William  T.,  Jr   51 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  ..       116 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting    100 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A    19 

Books  an  aid  to  civilization,  19 — Printing  of  the  Bible  a  blessing, 
20 — Value  of  literature  in  the  Church,  20 — Faith  increases  by 
study  of  Gospel  principles,  21 — Daily  reading  habit  urged,  21 — 
Warning  against  demoralizing  literature,  22 — The  Gospel  to  be 
studied  in  the  printed  word,  22 — Scriptures  a  guide  to  right  living, 
22 — Publications  of  the  Church,  23 — Advice  given  to  Hyrum 
Smith,  23 — Gratitude  for  the  Gospel,  23. 

Williams.  Elder  Orlando  C     26 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L   76 

An  expression  of  gratitude,  76 — The  value  of  counsel,  77 — The 
dutv  of  teachers,  78 — The  Church  to  be  a  standard  to  the  world, 
79." 

Woodruff,  Elder  Elias  S      53 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar    72 

The  Tabernacle  a  monument  to  the  Pioneers,  72 — Praise  from 
eminent  people,  73 — Places  in  which  to  worship  the  Lord,  74 — 
Tribute  to  early  builders,  74 — Need  for  worship,  75. 


(Book 

The  Deseret  Book  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.  We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 
following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Rational  Theology 
by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  losiah  E.  Hickman.  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man. 

by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Expert  Service  by  Mail. 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 

Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentary 
History  and  other  publications  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  in 
the  days  of  the  Prophet's  ministry 

Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  his 
Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Many  of  these  discourses  and  writings  appear  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  included  in  these  volumes, 
but  are  scattered  through  the  early  publications  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  difficult  even  for  the  student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publica- 
tions, are  not  accessible  for  general  use. 

In  accordance  with  the  many  calls  that  have  been  made  that  there 
be  a  more  extensive  compilation  of  these  discourses  and  sayings,  the 
matter  was  taken  up  in  the  Historian's  Office  and  such  a  compilation  has 
been  prepared,  submitted  to  the  First  Presidency  and  passed  by  them  for 
publication. 

Specially  priced  at  $2.00 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  on  South  Temple  Street  Salt  Lake  City.  Utah 


LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Sixth  President 
of 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
By 

JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

From  the  day  of  his  birth  until  the  day  of  his  passing — four  score 
years — there  was  scarcely  a  day  that  was  not  filled  with  intense  and  in- 
teresting activity.  He  commenced  life  in  the  midst  of  tribulation  and 
dark  persecution,  and  through  the  greater  part  of  his  life  he  was  called 
upon  to  face  the  spirit  of  hate  and  wickedness,  to  a  degree  almost  beyond 
human  endurance. 

This  volume  dedicated  to  a  man  among  men  with  the  faith  of  the 
prophets  of  old.  Its  worth  in  your  library  is  incomprehensible  and  its  pres- 
ence, when  read,  will  give  words  of  wisdom  and  words  of  courage. 

Price,  $2.50 

DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 


44  East  on  South  Temple 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


