Owl  JkincbmcL  JsudfL 

AI1UAL 


OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

OfuuL  5,  6,  7,  MO 

With  Report  of  Discourses 


Published  by  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Printed  In  the  United  States  of  America 


FOR  YOUR  CONSIDERATION 

The  OLD  WITH  the  NEW  and  the  NEW  WITH  the  OLD 

JJul  (Book  jrfL  TJ&inwtL 

The  latest  edition  comes  to  you  in  four  different  bindings.  Of  course  the  text 
remains  the  same. 

Missionary  Edition  $  .50 

Cloth  Binding,  Embossed   1.50 

Full  Morocco   3.00 

3>/wjtl  (plvtoboif  to  (pJwph&t 

AND 

WbituUL  StoMMu  jAom.  Jtha  Soak  jd£  TfloAnwn. 

By  WILLIAM  A.  MORTON 

This  delightful  volume  republished  as  a  reiteration  of  the  stories  that  children  love 
to  hear  and  to  read. 

Price  in  Cloth.  $1.25 

Disuy.  to  Jhmloqj^ 

By  PARLEY  P.  PRATT 
(Reprint  war  anted  by  demand) 

"Aims  to  embody  in  a  concise  and  somewhat  original  manner  and  style, 
a  general  view  of  the  Science  of  Theology  a*  gathered  from  revelation,  history, 
prophecy,  reason  and  analogy." 

Price   $1.00 

JJvl  U/jo/ui  a£  WudowL 

By  JOHN  A.  WIDTOSE  and  LEAH  D.  WIDTSOE 

"A  Modem  Interpretation  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  showing  that  the  learning 
of  the  last  century  confirms  the  teachings  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  to  enlighten 
the  individual  towards  a  conservation  of  health." 

Price  in  Cloth  Binding.  $1.25 

In  Paper  Binding   50 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 


One  Hundred  Tenth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Tenth  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  April  5,  6,  and  7, 
1940. 

The  entire  proceedings  of  the  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  broadcast  by  radio,  through  the  courtesy  of  Station  KSL  of 
Salt  Lake  City,  for  the  benefit  of  the  public  generally. 

In  the  absence  of  President  Heber  J.  Grant,  who  was  ill,  Presi- 
dent J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
presided  at  each  of  the  sessions. 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH  PRESENT 

Of  the  First  Presidency:  *,  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  David  O. 
McKay. 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles:  Rudger  Clawson,  Reed 
Smoot,  George  Albert  Smith,  George  F.  Richards,  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  Stephen  L  Richards,  Richard  R.  Lyman,  John  A.  Widtsoe," 
Joseph  F.  Merrill,  Charles  A.  Callis,  Albert  E.  Bowen,  and  Sylvester 
Q.  Cannon. 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  Rulon  S.  Wells,  Levi  Edgar 
Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Samuel  O.  Bennion,  John  H.  Taylor,  Rufus 
K.  Hardy,  and  Richard  L.  Evans. 

Of  the  Presiding  Bishopric :  LeGrand  Richards,  Marvin  O.  Ashton, 
and  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin. 

OFFICERS  AND  OTHER  AUTHORITIES  PRESENT 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  the 
following  assistants :   Andrew  Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 
Members  of  the  General  Committee,  Church  Welfare  Program. 
Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Education. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  counselors,  Presidents  of  Temples, 
Patriarchs,  High  Priests,  Seventies,  General,  Stake,  and  Ward  of- 
ficers of  the  Auxiliary  organizations,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Joseph  J.  Cannon,  Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah;  Frank  Evans,  Eastern  States;  Leo  J.  Muir,  Northern 
States;  David  A.  Broadbent,  North  Central  States;  John  F.  Bow- 
man, Central  States;  Merrill  D.  Clayson,  Southern  States;  El  Ray 
L.  Christiansen,  Texas ;  William  T.  Tew,  Jr.,  East  Central  States ; 
William  W.  Seegmiller,  Western  States ;  W.  Aird  Macdonald,  Cali- 
fornia ;  Preston  Nibley,  Northwestern  States ;  David  A.  Smithy  Can- 
ada; A.  Lorenzo  Anderson,  Mexico;  Orlando  C.  Williams,  Spanish- 
American. 


♦President  Heber  J.  Grant  absent  on  account  of  illness. 


2 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  D*y 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  opening  session  of  the  Conference  convened  Friday  morn- 
ing, April  5,  at  10  o'clock. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First 
Presidency,  who  presided,  announced  that  the  music  for  this  ses- 
sion of  the  Conference  would  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young 
University  Chorus,  under  the  joint  direction  of  Dr.  Franklin  W. 
Madsen  and  Dr.  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen,  with  Dr.  Frank  W. 
Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  opening  song  was  by  the  congregation  and  Chorus,  "Now 
Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 

Elder  George  T.  Hyde,  President  of  the  Portneuf  Stake,  offered 
the  invocation. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  sang  "Send  Forth  Thy 
Spirit"  (Schuetky). 

PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

The  following  telegram  from  President  Grant  was  read  by  President 
J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. : 

Los  Angeles,  California 
April  5,  1940 

Presidents  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  and  David  O.  McKay, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah, 

To  the  Saints  in  Conference  assembled :  I  sincerely  regret  that  I  am 
not  present  with  you  at  this  opening  meeting  of  our  Conference.  I  know 
of  the  spiritual  uplift  that  will  come  to  you.  Through  the  years  I  have 
always  counted  it  a  great  blessing  to  participate  with  my  brethren  and 
sisters  in  General  Conference. 

ACTIVITIES  IN  CALIFORNIA  FOLLOWED  BY  SICKNESS 

I  left  home  on  the  26th  of  January  and  attended  the  dedication  of 
the  Mormon  Battalion  Monument  at  San  Diego,  and  was  one  of  the 
speakers,  experiencing  much  liberty  in  my  talk.  I  enjoyed  the  meetings. 
They  were  a  great  tribute  to  the  achievement  of  our  people.  I  was  pleased 
with  the  talk  of  Brother  Andrew  Jenson.  I  then  attended  the  conference 
of  Inglewood  Stake.  In  the  morning  I  did  not  feel' well  enough  to  speak, 
but  spoke  in  the  afternoon  for  about  forty  minutes  with  perfect  liberty. 
That  night  I  was  feeling  poorly  and  the  next  morning  was  removed  to 
the  hospital  for  medical  attention  and  treatment.  The  treatment  there 
was  successful.  I  was  very  glad  I  had  Brother  McKay  call  on  me  in  the 
hospital  and  give  me  a  blessing,  and  I  am  grateful  beyond  expression 
for  the  faith  and  prayers  of  the  Saints.  I  know  of  a  certainty  that  your 
prayers  have  been  heard  and  answered  in  my  behalf. 


PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 


3 


I  am  very  grateful  that  I  now  can  be  around  working  at  times,  but 
mostly  resting,  exercising,  and  taking  care  of  myself,  to  the  end  that  I  may 
realize  a  full  recovery. 

About  the  middle  of  March  I  moved  from  the  hospital  to  the  home 
of  my  grandnephew,  Del  Grant,  where  I  have  been  comfortably  located, 
and  have  been  improving  in  my  health  every  day  making  really  astonish- 
ing advancement,  according  to  the  doctors.  I  had  hoped  at  least  to  speak 
to  the  Conference  by  radio,  but  the  doctors  feel  it  unwise  to  subject  myself 
to  that  great  strain.  They  feel  too  that  it  would  be  better  to  regain  my 
strength  before  making  an  attempt  to  return  home.  Therefore  I  shall 
remain  here  for  a  few  weeks  more.  The  doctors  feel  it  a  matter  of  wisdom 
for  me  to  stay  here  another  few  weeks,  even  though  there  would  be  little 
danger  if  I  were  to  return  home  now. 

BLESSING  AND  COMMENDATION 

I  send  my  love  and  blessings  to  all  the  Saints,  and  pray  that  you  may 
have  a  time  of  rejoicing  during  Conference.  I  have  been  made  happy  by 
the  new  Stakes  that  have  been  formed  of  late,  and  the  reorganization  of 
our  General  Boards.  I  earnestly  pray  for  the  success  of  the  new 
officers  in  the  Stakes  and  on  the  several  Boards.  Truly  Zion  is  growing. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  THE  YOUNG 

I  sympathize  with  our  young  people  because  of  the  temptations  that 
beset  them.  I  urge  them,  as  I  always  have,  to  live  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  fully.  In  that  way  they  will  have  health  and  happiness,  and  will 
meet  with  success  in  this  life  and  will  have  an  eternity  of  joy  in  store  for 
them  in  the  life  to  come.  I  bless  them  with  courage  to  meet  the  problems 
that  lie  ahead. 

A  TESTIMONY 

It  is  a  joy  to  me  to  bear  again  my  testimony  of  my  absolute  knowledge 
of  the  divinity  of  the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged,  and  of  the  divinity 
of  the  Savior,  and  of  the  divine  work  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 

AN  EXPRESSION  OF  SYMPATHY 

I  was  grieved  to  hear  of  the  passing  of  Elder  Harold  G.  Reynolds 
who  has  been  in  charge  of  the  transportation  in  our  missionary  system. 
He  was  a  true  Latter-day  Saint.  May  our  Heavenly  Father  bless  and 
sustain  his  wife  and  children. 

PRAYER  AND  BLESSING 

I  most  earnestly  pray  for  all  the  General  and  local  officers,  both  in 
the  Priesthood  and  the  Auxiliary  organizations,  and  for  the  advancement 
of  the  work  of  God,  and  I  send  my  love  and  blessings  to  the  Saints  at 
home  and  abroad.  Amen. 

(Signed)  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


4  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Dag 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  We  are  all  thrilled  with  this  message  from 
President  Grant.  I  saw  him  personally,  as  did  Brother  McKay.  He  is 
recovering;  he  is  well  on  his  way  to  full  recovery.  I  know  that  every 
true  Latter-day  Saint  in  Zion  is  praying  for  his  speedy  and  complete 
restoration  to  health  and  strength.  We  should  like  to  send  him  now 
the  greetings  of  this  great  Conference,  and  assure  him  that  he  has  our 
faith  and  prayers  for  his  early  recovery. 

FINANCIAL  STATEMENT 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  the  Clerk  of  the  Conf  erence,  read  the  Fin- 
ancial Statement  of  the  Church  as  follows: 

THE  EXPENDITURES  BY  THE  CHURCH  FOR  THE  YEAR 

1939 

Stake  and  Ward  Purposes : 

For  the  erection  of  meeting  houses  and  for  Ward  and  Stake 

maintenaince  expenses  $1,544,357.99 

Missionary  Work : 

For  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  all  the  Missions,  and 
for  the  erection  of  places  of  worship  and  other  build- 
ings in  the  Missions  $1,171,272.56 

Education : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  of  Church  school  system  $  801,414.73 

Temples : 

Expended  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  Temples  ... .$  239,457.65 
Hospitals : 

Expended  for  the  erection  and  improvement  of  hospital 

buildings  (included  in  Church  Welfare  Program)  $  15,183.15 

v 

Relief  Assistance : 

For  direct  aid  in  the  care  of  the  worthy  poor  and  other  chari- 
table purposes,  including  hospital  treatment.  (From 
tithing  funds  only.  Included  in  Church  Welfare  Pro- 
gram)  $  429,982.89 

Total  $4,201,668.97 

which  has  been  taken  from  the  tithes  and  other  Church 
funds  and  returned  by  the  Trustee-in-Trust  to  the 
Saints  for  the  maintenance  and  operation  of  the  Stakes 
and  Wards,  Mission  activities,  for  the  maintenance  and 
operation  of  Church  schools,  and  Temples,  for  hospital 
buildings  and  relief  assistance. 


FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  5 

CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

Church  membership,  Stakes  and  Mission   803,528 

Number  of  Church  members  who  paid  voluntary  Fast  offer- 
ings and  Welfare  contributions  to  help  the  needy : 

In  Wards   230,528 

In  Missions    20,908 

Total    251,436 

Amount  of  voluntary  Fast  offerings  and  Welfare  contribu- 
tions : 
In  Wards 

Cash   $  401,232.71 

Commodities    62,147.55 

In  Missions : 

Cash   32,466.07 

Total  (all  expended  for  relief)   $  495,846.33 

Disbursed  to  the  needy  by  the  Relief  Society  for  direct 
assistance  in  their  homes  and  for  general  welfare  pur- 
poses, such  as  surgical  appliances  and  preventive  and 

corrective  health  work  $  93,256.25 

For  carrying  on  the  general,  welfare  and  educational  pro- 
gram of  the  Relief  Society   293,305.77 

Expended  from  the  tithes  for  general  and  local  relief   285,902.89 

Expended  directly  by  the  Church  Welfare  Committee   144,080.00 

Expended  for  the  extension  and  improvement  of  hospital 

buildings  and  for  the  care  of  the  sick  therein    98,321.89 

Additional  assistance  extended  to  the  Church  building  pro- 
gram (Wards,  Stakes  and  Missions)  representing  pay- 
ments on  the  basis  of  60%  for  buildings  authorized 

before  the  change  in  policy  January  1,  1939    80,268.79 

m  Total   $1,490,981.92 

In  addition  to  the  foregoing,  the  following  supplies  had  been 
assembled  and  were  on  hand  December  31,  1939,  and 
are  available  for  the  needy  during  the  year  1940. 

CLOTHING  AND  BEDDING 

Estimated 
Value 

Men's  clothing,  pieces    5,635    $  2,254.00 

Women's  clothing,  pieces   9,944  2,483.20 

Children's  clothing,  pieces   5,451  1,253.75 

Quilts  and  miscellaneous  items....       8,442  8,929.06 


Total 


29,472 


$  14,920.01 


6 

Friday.  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


CANNED  FRUITS  AND  VEGETABLES 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  cans  1,177,516  $129,526.76 

Fruits  and  vegetables,  bottled  ....  31,002  3,410.22 
Dried  fruits  and  vegetables,  lbs...    104,110  5,475.34 

Total    1,312,628  $  138,412.32 

OTHER  PRODUCE 

Flour,  pounds   230,521  $  3,457.81 

Potatoes,  pounds    524,132  5,294.15 

Grain,  pounds    317,297  3,967.21 

Other  vegetables,  pounds   149,877  1,094.10 

Meat,  pounds    28,816  3,169.76 

Total    1,250,643  $  16,983.03 

FUEL  AND  LUMBER 

Coal,  pounds    935,300    $  1,870.60 

Wood,  cords    250  1,250.00 

Lumber,  board  feet    4,989  139.67 

Total    940,539  $  3,260.67 

Total  on  hand  December  31,  1939  $  173,576.03 

FAST  OFFERING  INFORMATION 

Average  Fast  offerings  and  welfare  contributions 

per  capita  in  Wards   82.2 

Stakes  with  the  highest  per  capita : 

New  York   2.16 

Curlew   2.13 

St.  Johns   1.92 

South  Los  Angeles   1.53 

Benson   1.42 

Chicago  1.41 

Bonneville   1.40 

Kanab   1.33 

Portland   1.31 

San  Bernardino   1.30 

Number  of  Stakes  that  paid  more  than  $1.00  per  capita   28 

Missions  with  the  highest  per  capita : 
Membership  less  than  1500 

Japanese   1.59 

Czech   92 

Argentine   55 

Brazilian  54 


FINANCIAL  STATEMENT  7 

Membership  over  1500 

Swiss   67 

East  German   59 

Eastern  States  53 

California   52 

THE  CHURCH  UNEMPLOYMENT  SITUATION  AS  OF  DECEMBER  31,  1939, 

AS  follows: 

Employable  needing  employment,  January  1,  1939   6,817 

Employable  needing  employment,  December  31,  1939    5,046 

Skilled  workmen  unemployed,  December  31,  1939   659 

Unskilled  workmen  unemployed,  December  31,  1939    3,195 

Women  unemployed  December  31,  1939    1,192 

Number  employed  during  year   2,963 

Number  of  persons  used  on  Church  Work  projects  during  year....  7,188 
Average,  number  of  persons  assisted  monthly  12,955 

SUMMARY  ERECTION  AND  IMPROVEMENT  OF  CHURCH  BUILDINGS 

Appropriated  for  Ward  and  Stake  buildings  $  657,012.94 

Appropriated  for  Seminaries  and  Institutes   36,004.37 

Appropriated  for  hospital  buildings    15,183.15 

Amount  raised  locally  for  the  foregoing  improvements   525,146.24 

Expended  for  Mission  buildings  and  real  estate   116,807.05 

Improvements  in  Temples    10,266.38 


Total   $1,360,420.13 


STATISTICS  AND  OTHER  DATA  FOR  THE  YEAR  1939 

There  were  on  December  31,  1939:  128  Stakes  (at  the  present  time 
130)  ;  1,055  Wards ;  99  independent  Branches,  or  a  total  of  1,154  Wards 
and  Branches  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion;  also  35  Missions;  1,002  Mission 
Branches,  and  250  Districts. 

CHURCH  MEMBERSHIP 


Stakes    645,618 

Missions    157,910 


Total   803,528 

CHURCH  GROWTH 

Children  blessed  and  entered  on  the  records  of  the  Church  in 

the  Stakes  and  Missions    20,988 

Children  baptized  in  the  Stakes  and  Missions   15,199 

Converts  baptized  in  the  Stakes  and  Missions   7,945 


8  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

Number  of  long-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1939   :   2,046 

Number  of  short-term  missionaries  from  Zion,  December  31, 

1939   26 

Number  of  local  missionaries   78 

Total  number  of  missionaries  in  the  Missions  of  the  Church....  2,150 
Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  Stakes   2,101 

Total  missionaries    4,251 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  at  the  Mission- 
ary Home   1,071 

SOCIAL  STATISTICS 

Birth  rate  31.5  per  thousand 
Marriage  rate  17  per  thousand 
Death  rate  6.5  per  thousand 

EXPENDED  FOR  THE  MAINTENANCE  OF  MISSIONARIES 

Collected  by  Wards  and  paid  to  missionaries  $  86,392.67 

Average  cost  per  missionary,  1939,  $31.06  per  month  or  a 
total  of  $372.72  per  year  per  missionary.  Number  of 
missionaries  December  31,  1939,  2,150,  making  a  total 

average  expense  for  the  year  of   801,348.00 

Estimated  possible  earnings  per  missionary  $900.00  per 
year  x  2,150,  average  number  of  missionaries,  makes  an 
estimated  total  of  what  these  missionaries  might  have 
earned  if  at  home  of   1,935,000.00 

Total  estimated  contribution  of  missionaries  and  their  fami- 
lies for  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  $2,822,740.67 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS,  STAKE,  WARD  AND 
BRANCH  ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE  LAST  OCTOBER 
CONFERENCE 

General  Auxiliary  Boards  Reorganised : 

Louise  Y.  Robison  has  been  honorably  released  as  President  of  the 
General  Board  of  the  Relief  Society.  Also  honorably  released  were  Amy 
Brown  Lyman  as  First  Counselor,  Kate  M.  Barker  as  Second  Counselor, 
and  Julia  A.  F.  Lund  as  Secretary-Treasurer. 

Amy  Brown  Lyman  appointed  President  of  the  General  Board  of  the 
Relief  Society,  with  Marcia  Knowlton  Howells  as  First  Counselor,  Donna 
Durrant  Sorenson  as  Second  Counselor,  and  Vera  White  Pohlman  as 
General  Secretary-Treasurer. 

May  Anderson  has  been  honorably  released  as  Superintendent  of 
the  General  Board  of  the  Primary  Association.  Also  honorably  released 
were  Isabelle  S.  Ross  as  First  Assistant  Superintendent,  Edith  H.  Lam- 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


9 


bert  as  Second  Assistant  Superintendent,  and  Mary  R.  Jack  as  Secretary 
and  Treasurer. 

May  Green  Hinckley  appointed  Superintendent  of  the  General  Board 
of  the  Primary  Association,  with  Adele  Cannon  Howells  as  First  As- 
sistant Superintendent,  Janet  Murdoch  Thompson  as  Second  Assistant 
Superintendent,  and  Beth  Paxman  as  Secretary  and  Treasurer. 

Special  Appointments : 

Tracy  Y.  Cannon,  appointed  as  Chairman  of  the  General  Music 
Committee  to  succeed  Apostle  Melvin  J.  Ballard,  and  LeRoy  J.  Robert- 
son appointed  to  succeed  Brother  Cannon  as  Second  Assistant.  George 
D.  Pyper,  First  Assistant,  and  N.  Lorenzo  Mitchell,  Secretary,  were  re- 
tained. 

New  Stakes  Organized : 

A  new  Stake  to  be  known  as  Inglewood  Stake  was  organized  No- 
vember 19th.  It  comprises  five  Wards  and  one  Independent  Branch: 
Redondo  and  Torrance  Wards  taken  from  Long  Beach  Stake ;  Inglewopd, 
Mar  Vista,  and  Santa  Monica  Wards  and  El  Segundo  Branch  taken  from 
Hollywood  Stake. 

A  new  Stake  to  be  known  as  Emigration  Stake  was  organized  March 
10th  by  a  division  of  the  Ensign  Stake,  and  consists  of  the  Eleventh, 
Twelfth,  Thirteenth,  Twenty-first,  Twenty-seventh  and  University 
Wards.  The  Ensign  Stake  now  consists  of  the  North  Eighteenth,  South 
Eighteenth,  Twentieth  and  Ensign  Wards. 

A  new  Stake  to  be  known  as  Riverside  Stake  was  organized  March 
24th  by  a  division  of  the  Salt  Lake  Stake,  and  consists  of  the  Fifteenth, 
Sixteenth,  Twenty-eighth,  Twenty-ninth,  Thirty-fourth,  and  Center 
Wards.  The  Salt  Lake  Stake  retains  the  Fourteenth,  Seventeenth,  Nine- 
teenth, Twenty-second,  Twenty-third,  Twenty-fourth  and  Capitol  Hill 
Wards. 

Stake  Name  Changed : 

The  old  Pasadena  Stake  is  now  known  as  San  Fernando  Stake. 
Los  Angeles  Stake  was  formerly  known  as  Hollywood  Stake. 
South  Los  Angeles  Stake  was  formerly  known  as  Los  Angeles  Stake. 

Stake  Presidents  Appointed : 

'  William  S.  Erekson  appointed  President  of  fhe  Cottonwood  Stake  to 
succeed  President  Samuel  E.  Bringhurst. 

Alfred  E.  Rohner  appointed  President  of  the  newly  organized  Ingle- 
wood Stake. 

Alma  Sonne  appointed  President  of  the  Cache  Stake  to  succeed 
President  Joseph  E.  Cardon. 

George  L.  Scott  appointed  President  of  the  Portland  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed President  Monte  Lafayette  Bean. 

Harold  S.  Snow  appointed  President  of  the  St.  George  Stake  to 
succeed  President  William  O.  Bentley. 


10  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  First  Day 

President  Colen  H.  Sweeten  released  as  President  of  Curlew  Stake 

Willard  Ellis  Bay  appointed  President  of  the  Garfield  Stake  to  suc- 
ceed President  Milton  Twitchell. 

Edwin  Sorensen  appointed  President  of  the  North  Sevier  Stake 
to  succeed  President  Heber  C.  Williams. 

Irvin  L.  Warnock  appointed  President  of  the  Sevi«r  Stake  to 
succeed  President  W.  Eugene  Poulson. 

C.  Douglas  Barnes  appointed  President  of  the  Long  Beach  Stake  to 
succeed  President  John  W.  Jones. 

Royle  S.  Papworth  appointed  President  of  the  Star  Valley  Stake 
to  succeed  President  Oarence  Gardner. 

George  A.  Christensen  appointed  President  of  the  newly  organized 
Emigration  Stake. 

John  B.  Matheson  appointed  President  of  the  newly  organized 
Riverside  Stake. 

Stake  Disorganised : 

Curlew  Stake  was  disorganized  February  11th  artd  Wards  trans- 
ferred to  other  Stakes  as  follows :  Arbon  Ward  to  Pocatello  Stake ;  Hol- 
brook  Ward  to  Malad  Stake ;  Park  Valley,  Rosette,  Snowville  and  Stone 
Wards  to  Bear  River  Stake. 

Other  Ward  Transferred : 

Hollywood  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake,  transferred  from  San  Fer- 
nando Stake. 

W ard  Name  Changed : 

Central  Ward,  South  Sevier  Stake  was  formerly  known  as  Inverury 
Ward. 

New  Wards  Organized : 

Cedar  4th  W ard,  Parowan  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of  Cedar  3rd 
Ward. 

Mount  Ogden  Ward  Mount  Ogden  Stake,  created  by  a  division  of 
Ogden  12th  and  Ogden  17th  Wards. 

Kaysville  1st  Ward,  North  Davis  Stake  and  Kaysville  2nd  Ward, 
North  Davis  Stake  created  Iby  a  division  of  the  former  Kaysville  Ward. 

Garfield  East  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake  and  Garfield  West  Ward, 
Oquirrh  Stake  created  by  a  division  of  the  former  Garfield  Ward. 

Maxwell  Park  Ward,  Oakland  Stake  created  by  a  division  of  the  Di- 
mond  and  Elmhurst  Wards. 

North  Las  Vegas  Ward,  Moapa  Stake  created  by  a  division  of  the 
Las  Vegas  Ward. 

Independent  Branches  Made  Wards: 

Caldwell  Ward,  Nampa  Stake  was  formerly  Independent  Branch 
of  same  Stake. 

Monrovia  Ward,  Pasadena  Stake  was  formerly  Independent  Branch 
of  that  Stake. 


CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 


11 


New  Independent  Branches : 

Highland  Park  Branch,  North  Idaho  Falls  Stake,  was  formerly  De- 
pendent Branch  of  Idaho  Falls  4th  Ward. 

Ophir  Branch,  Tooele  Stake  has  been  reorganized ;  inactive  since 
1927. 

Las  Cruces  Branch,  Mount  Graham  Stake,  was  formerly  Dependent 
Branch  of  El  Paso  Ward. 

Rockport  Branch,  Summit  Stake,  was  formerly  dependent  on  Wan- 
ship  Ward. 

Ward  Disorganised: 

Corning  Ward,  Gridley  Stake  disorganized  and  transferred  to  Cali- 
fornia Mission ;  to  function  as  Sunday  School  in  the  Shasta  District. 

Branches  Disorganised : 

Grays  Harbor  Branch,  Seattle  Stake  transferred  back  to  North- 
western States  Mission. 

Raymond  Branch,  Seattle  Stake  transferred  back  to  Northwestern 
States  Mission. 

Those  Who  Have  Passed  Away : 

Harold  G.  Reynolds,  L.  D.  S.  Mission  Secretary  and  Church  Trans- 
portation Agent  since  1906,  also  Bishop  of  Twenty-first  Ward  for  15 
years,  and  former  member  of  Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  General 
Board. 

James  G.  McDonald,  Presiding  Elder  at  Brighton  for  many  years, 
also  civic  and  industrial  leader. 

Ephraim  P.  Ellison,  director  of  Beneficial  Life  Insurance  Company, 
President  of  Layton  Sugar  Company,  and  for  many  years  Counselor  in 
the  North  Davis  Stake  Presidency. 

Sarah  E.  Stewart,  noted  educational  and  civic  leader  and  Church 
Auxiliary  worker,  widow  of  William  M.  Stewart,  founder  and  first  dean 
of  the  School  of  Education  at  the  University  of  Utah. 

Florence  Neslen  Evans,  widow  of  the  late  John  A.  Evans,  and  mother 
of  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 

Lorenzo  Argyle,  believed  to  be  the  last  member  of  the  first  pioneer 
handcart  company  to  come  to  Utah  (the  Ellsworth  Company)  ;  was 
Bishop  of  the  Lake  Shore  Ward  for  thirty-four  years. 

Elizabeth  Turner  Cain  Crismon,  former  member  of  the  General 
Board  of  the  L.  D.  S.  National  Woman's  Relief  Society  under  President 
Emmeline  B.  Wells. 

Marion  A.  Condie,  First  Counselor  in  Blaine  Stake  Presidency. 

Bishop  James  Johnson,  Nampa  Second  Ward,  Nampa  Stake. 

Bishop  Henry  Jones,  St.  Johns  Ward,  Malad  Stake. 


12  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

REPORT  OF  THE  CHURCH  AUDITING  COMMITTEE 

Elder  Harold  H.  Bennett  read  the  Report  of  the  Church  Auditing 
Committee  as  follows : 

The  First  Presidency  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
47  East  South  Temple  Street, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  examined  the  financial  report  of  the  Church  for  the 
year  1939.  The  records  are  accurately  kept,  and  the  accounting  is 
modern  and  adequate. 

The  Church  budget  is  in  balance,  and  the  Church  is  entirely 
free  of  debt. 

Yours  respectfully, 
(Signed) 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Albert  E.  Bowen 
George  S.  Spencer 
H.  H.  Bennett 
Auditing  Commitee. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters :  I  humbly  pray  that  the  time  that  I  may 
stand  before  you  may  be  filled  with  words  that  may  be  of  help,  counsel, 
and  encouragement. 

SIGNIFICANT  FEATURES  OF  ANNUAL  REPORT 

There  are  two  or  three  things  that  perhaps  might  be  specially  men- 
tioned in  connection  with  our  annual  report. 

During  the  year  1939  we  spent  $50,000  more  for  missionary  work 
than  we  spent  in  1938.  Part  of  that  was  undoubtedly  due  to  the  trans- 
portation back  to  the  United  States  of  the  missionaries  who  were  in  Eur- 
ope, of  which  I  shall  say  more  a  little  later. 

While  our  records  cannot  be  regarded  as  accurate,  nevertheless  it 
does  appear  that  during  the  year  1939,  from  January  1st  to  December 
31st,  we  took  off  from  the  Welfare  system  some  1,800  people.  It  further- 
more appears  that  we  had  2,500  fewer  unemployed  on  December  31st, 
1939,  than  on  the  same  date  in  1938. 

As  you  will  have  noticed  from  the  reports,  there  have  been  three 
new  Stakes  organized,  nineteen  new  wards,  and  forty-five  new  Branches. 

The  birth  rate  has  increased  six-tenths  of  one  per  cent ;  the  death  rate 
has  decreased  three-tenths  of  one  per  cent;  the  marriage  rate  remains 
the  same. 

While,  as  indicated  by  the  report,  the  Church  as  a  whole  has  not  yet 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR 


13 


reached  the  goal  of  one  dollar  per  person  for  Fast  offerings,  nevertheless 
we  made  in  1939  a  decided  advance  in  the  number  of  Fast-offering-payers 
as  well  as  in  the  amount  paid.  There  were  66,631  more  payers  of  Fast 
offerings  in  1939  than  in  1938.  Moreover,  the  voluntary  Fast  offerings 
increased  in  1939  by  $95,513.00.  Our  commodity  offerings  decreased, 
however  by  $27,333.00.  The  estimated  value  of  clothing,  bedding,  canned 
fruits,  vegetables,  fuel  and  labor  increased  over  1938  by  $36,125.00. 

As  Brother  Bennett  has  told  you,  we  have  balanced  our  budget.  The 
following  will  give  you  some  idea  of  the  larger  items  and  the  percentage 
of  expenditure  to  which  the  tithing  is  devoted: 

The  Ward  and  Stake  expenses  are  16.6%,  of  the  whole  budget;  the 
Church  Schools  16.2%  ;  Missionary  work  15.3%  ;  Church  buildings 
erected,  20.7% ;  Welfare,  9.6%  ;  and  the  General  Authorities  and  the 
maintenance  of  the  General  offices  of  the  Church,  6.3%. 

When  we  urge  tithing,  brothers  and  sisters,  it  is  obviously  not  for 
selfish  reasons  ;  it  is  that  we  may  serve  our  Church  needs  better.  Without 
tithing  we  should  be  extremely  helpless  in  the  things  which  we  regard  as 
and  which  the  Lord  has  declared  to  be  vital. 

CHURCH  INCOME  DEPENDENT  UPON  FAITH  AND  PROSPERITY 

We  have  felt  that  it  was  important  that  the  Church  should  live  within 
its  income,  not  only  for  itself  as  a  Church,  but  for  an  example  to  the  com- 
munity, the  state,  the  nation,  and  to  the  individual  members  themselves. 

Such  a  course  of  the  Church  involves  problems  which  are  not  inci- 
dent to  civil  administration,  which  is  primarily  dependent  upon  taxes 
that  can  be  accurately  forecast,  except  for  income  and  other  like  special 
taxes  which  are  in  the  nature  of  extra  or  surplus  revenues.  Therefore 
there  are  in  governmental  activities  few  occasions  when  an  unbalanced 
budget — that  is,  when  more  is  spent  than  is  taken  in — is  not  created  by 
some  deliberate  act. 

With  the  Church  the  matter  is  wholly  different.  Over  the  last  four 
years  approximately  87%of  the  total  Church  income  has  been  the  tithing. 
This  being  a  purely  voluntary  contribution,  its  amount  cannot  be  accurate- 
ly forecast.  Its  volume  depends  wholly  upon  the  faithfulness  of  the 
people.  Thus,  where  the  governmental  agencies  have  relative  certainty 
in  income,  the  Church  has  uncertainty. 

Furthermore,  governmental  agencies,  knowing  their  fixed  income, 
can  plan  their  expenditures  with  certainty,  they  can  so  fix  their  expendi- 
tures as  to  fall  within  their  income.  The  Church,  not  knowing  its  income, 
cannot  so  definitely  fix  its  outgo  as  certainly  to  come  within  its  revenue. 
Its  only  guide  on  these  matters  is  to  be  spelled  out  from  the  experiences 
of  the  past. 

Again,  while  income  taxes  and  analogous  governmental  taxes — 
state,  county,  and  municipal — depend  upon  the  prosperity  of  the  people, 
yet  the  great  bulk  of  the  taxes  levied  by  such  governmental  agencies 
are  on  real  and  personal  properties  under  terms  which  are  fixed  by  the 
taxing  power  and  rarely  vary  with  the  prosperity  of  the  people.  These 
taxes  are  paid  whether  your  business  or  farms  pay  or  do  not  pay. 


14  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

On  the  other  hand,  the  Church  income  depends  wholly  upon  the 
prosperity  of  the  people.  If  crops  are  short,  if  prices  are  low,  if  business 
is  poor,  the  Church  revenues  suffer  proportionately,  for  it  is  the  annual 
income  that  is  tithed. 

So  not  only  your  faithfulness  is  involved,  but  granting  you  full 
faithfulness,  there  is  still  the  uncertainty  of  weather,  crops,  business,  and 
other  elements  that  no  one  can  forecast. 

TITHING  A  TRUST  FUND 

These  things  are  pointed  out  so  that  no  one  can  be  under  the  delu- 
sion that  the  Church  has  a  pile  of  gold  to  which  it  may  go  for  any  amount 
of  money  that  it  wishes.  The  only  money  the  Church  has  is  what  has  been 
saved  out  of  the  tithing  you  have  given  it  in  the  past  and  the  tithing  you 
are  now  giving  it,  and  approximately  87%  of  the  total  annual  income, 
as  I  have  already  stated,  comes  from  you  from  year  to  year. 

We,  the  Authorities  of  the  Church  must  therefore  be  extremely  care- 
ful as  to  our  commitments,  else  we  shall  find  ourselves,  as  we  have  occa- 
sionally in  the  past,  spending  more  than  our  income. 

When  you  Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes,  and  Mission  Presidents, 
and  Temple  Presidents,  and  Auxiliary  Officers  and  School-men,  and 
Welfare  agencies,  and  people  in  distress,  come  to  the  Presiding  Bishop- 
ric and  meet  a  "No"  and  then  come  to  the  Presidency  and  get  a  louder 
"No,"  please  do  not  believe  that  we  are  unfeeling  or  unsympathetic,  or 
harsh,  or  cruel,  or  lack  understanding  or  appreciation,  or  love  for  our 
brethren.  We  are  merely  trying  to  administer  the  Lord's  money,  not  our 
money,  not  your  money,  as  wisely  and  justly  as  the  Lord  gives  us  wis- 
dom to  exercise.  We  are  not  infallible  in  our  judgment,  and  we  err, 
but  our  constant  prayer  is  that  the  Lord  will  guide  us  in  our  decisions, 
and  we  are  trying  so  to  live  that  our  minds  will  be  open  to  His  inspiration. 

CHURCH  FREE  FROM  DEBT 

Perhaps  I  may  say  here  that  the  Church  itself,  (I  am  not  now  speak- 
ing of  Wards  and  Stakes)  does  not  owe  a  dollar  in  the  world  to  any  per- 
son or  to  any  institution.  All  its  property  is  free  from  encumbrance  of 
any  sort;  its  credit  was  never  higher.  There  are  idle  and  silly  rumors 
running  about  to  the  contrary,  but,  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  stating  to 
you  the  sober  facts. 

The  First  Presidency  will  do  all  in  their  power  to  keep  the  Church  in 
this  condition. 

So  much  for  our  Church  finances,  which,  while  far  from  being  the 
most  important  element  in  the  Church,  are  nevertheless  a  very  important 
factor  in  our  organization  if  we  are  to  carry  forth  the  work  we  have  be- 
gun and  which  the  Lord  has  revealed  He  expects  us  to  do.  Indeed,  we 
cannot  do  this  work  without  your  contributions.  The  work  is,  in  the  full 
sense,  in  your  hands. 

The  First  Presidency  would  like  to  urge  every  member  of  the  Church 
to  follow  the  example  set  by  the  Church  and  to  live  within  his  income. 

Anyone  who  lives  beyond  his  income  is  inviting  disaster.  Borrowed 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR  15 


money  is  not  income.  Borrowing  on  capital  account,  within  your  reason- 
able capacity  to  pay,  may  be  sound,  depending  upon  circumstances.  But 
borrowing  to  live  on  is  unsound,  whether  it  be  an  outright  loan  or  install- 
ment buying.  We  urge  the  members  to  be  frugal,  thrifty,  industrious, 
temperate,  saving,  and  to  live  righteously. 

THE  WELFARE  PROGRAM 

Now,  a  few  words  about  the  Welfare  work.  The  great  wisdom  of 
our  leaders,  past  and  present,  up  to  the  beginning  of  the  World  depres- 
sion, is  nowhere  better  shown  than  in  their  continued  policy  of  having  the 
Church  live  within  its  income  and  of  putting  a  little  aside  each  year  for  a 
rainy  day.  If  they  had  not  done  this,  but  instead  had  used  up  year  by 
year  all  the  tithing  you  paid  in,  we  would  have  entered  this  depression 
with  no  assets  but  our  current  income,  with  no  reserves,  with  a  diminished 
revenue,  and  with  no  course  open  to  us  but  drastically  to  reduce  our  regu- 
lar vital  activities  in  order  to  extend  help  to  the  needy.  But  as  it  was,  we 
were  able  to  increase  the  Church  proportion  in  our  building  program, 
so  as  to  help  the  needy  unemployed.  We  were  able  for  a  couple  of  years 
to  spend  more  than  our  revenue  so  as  to  carry  on  our  Welfare  work,  and 
yet  to  leave  ourselves  completely  solvent  and  with  unimpaired  credit 
against  a  day  of  greater  need.  This  was  done  without  borrowing  a  dollar. 

I  say  to  you  again,  the  Church  does  not  owe  a  dollar  to  any  person, 
firm  or  institution  in  the  world  beyond  the  regular  current  monthly  bills, 
which  are  settled  at  the  end  of  each  month ;  it  has  no  mortgage  on  any 
of  its  property. 

The  report  already  read  shows  the  amount  expended  on  Welfare 
work  by  the  Church  during  the  last  calendar  year.  But  thousands  of  dol- 
lars of  produce  has  been  raised  and  distributed  of  which  we  have  no  ac- 
curate account. 

In  addition,  there  has  been  the  neighbor  to  neighbor  help — a  very 
considerable  sum — and  Priesthood  quorum  and  other  activities  of  which 
we  have  no  accurate  record. 

May  I  pause  here  and  say  that  I  hope  that  every  member  attending 
Conference  will  take  occasion  to  go  down  to  the  Bishop's  Storehouse  and 
visit  that  wonderful  exhibit.  Do  this  between  meetings,  and  before  meet- 
ings, and  after  meetings.  You  will  get  a  thrill  there  such  as  you  have 
rarely  experienced,  where  each  Stake's  work  is  portrayed  by  an  exhibi- 
tion of  the  actual  products  which  they  have  produced.  Do  not  fail,  bro- 
thers and  sisters,  and  particularly  you  who  are  engaged  in  Welfare  work, 
to  visit  and  inspect  that  wonderful  exhibition.  I  told  the  brethren  this 
morning  that  this  work  continuing  to  grow,  one  of  these  days  they  would 
be  forced  to  attempt  to  secure  the  State  Fair  buildings  down  near  the 
river,  to  give  their  exhibit  in. 

Furthermore,  the  reports  which  you  have  heard  read  from  time  to 
time  in  this  Conference  regarding  Welfare  expenditures,  cover  only  what 
has  been  actually  given  out  to  the  people.  No  account  has  heretofore  been 
taken  of  the  physical  assets — fixed  assets,  real  estate,  personal  property — 
which  have  been  devoted  to  the  Welfare  work, — part  of  the  funds  coming 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

from  you  brethren  and  sisters  out  in  the  regions,  part  of  it  coming  from 
the  general  funds  of  the  Church.  But  during  the  four  years  in  which  the 
Welfare  program  has  been  functioning,  we  have  accumulated  approxi- 
mately a  half  million  dollars  of  physical  assets,  buildings,  and  equipment, 
and  these  are  all  employed  in  the  Welfare  work. 

WHEAT  TO  BE  STORED 

We  are  now  building,  as  you  know,  a  large  grain  elevator  which  will 
store  approximately  300,000  bushels  of  grain.  We  did  have  in  storage 
approximately  190,000  bushels  of  wheat,  which  we  are  now  replacing. 
In  that  connection  I  would  like  to  read  you  just  a  part  of  a  letter  dated 
August  26th,  1918,  signed  by  the  First  Presidency  under  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  by  the  Presiding  Bishopric  under  C.  W.  Nibley,  and  by  the  Relief 
Society  under  Emmeline  B.  Wells,  concerning  the  re-investing  of  the 
Relief  Society  Wheat  Fund. 

After  calling  attention  to  the  sale  of  the  wheat  to  the  Government  at 
that  time,  the  letter  closes  with  these  two  paragraphs : 

The  money  received  for  the  wheat  the  government  has  taken  must 
be  kept  in  the  banks  and  draw  interest.  In  no  case  should  it  be  loaned  out 
or  used  for  any  purposes  whatsoever  other  than  the  purchase  of  wheat, 
as  it  is  a  sacred  trust  fund  which  can  be  used  only  for  the  purpose  for 
which  it  is  donated. 

When  the  time  comes  to  again  invest  this  money  in  the  purchase  of 
wheat  you  will  be  advised  of  it  by  the  Presiding  Bishopric  and  the  Gen- 
eral Board  of  Relief  Society. 

We  are,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  in  accordance  with  that  determina- 
tion which  was  then  made,  re-investing  the  wheat  money  back  into  wheat, 
and  we  aim  to  keep  it  re-invested  in  that  way  as  a  part  of  the  Church 
Welfare  Plan.  This  move  has  the  whole-hearted  and  complete  approval 
of  the  Relief  Society  sisters  to  whom  as  a  matter  of  fact  the  fund  belongs. 

WORK  YET  TO  BE  DONE 

I  shall  not  take  time  to  tell  you  of  the  various  activities  of  the  Wel- 
fare Program,  but  I  would  like  to  say  that  I  am  firmly  convinced  that  we 
are  now  sufficiently  organized  and  have  now  enough  experience,  so  that 
if  we  shall  bend  our  whole  energies  to  it  we  shall  be  able  to  feed,  clothe, 
and  house  ourselves.   I  think  there  is  no  doubt  of  that. 

Two  other  things  we  still  have  left  to  do.  One,  we  must  bend  our 
energies  towards  finding  work  for  those  people  to  do  who  need  assistance. 
I  shall  touch  on  that  again  in  just  a  moment.  Next,  if  we  find  labor  for 
them  to  do  we  shall  then  be  well  on  our  way  towards  rehabilitating  them 
in  their  spiritual  and  civic  lives.  This  is  the  second  and  in  a  sense,  the 
most  important  work  we  have  to  do. 

Lastly,  I  wish  to  urge  upon  you  Welfare  workers,  you  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  you  Bishops,  Presidents  of  Branches,  local  Relief  Societies  and 
all  other  agencies,  that  you  do  not  wait  to  be  told  from  headquarters  about 
every  detail  of  what  you  should  do.  You  know  the  local  problem  better 
than  we  do.   Meet  the  problem  which  arises  in  your  various  places  in  ac- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR 


17 


cordance  with  its  needs.  Regimentation  is  a  threatening  blight  upon  all 
Church  activities. 

ECONOMY  IN  ERECTION  OF  BUILDINGS 

One  of  the  greatest  problems  of  the  Church  is  providing  the  neces- 
sary buildings  for  carrying  on  our  numerous  and  exacting  activities. 

We  have  a  tendency  I  think  to  make  our  buildings  just  a  little  bit  too 
elaborate  and  too  ornate. 

There  is  an  ever-present  necessity,  which  comes  with  increasing  fre- 
quency, to  subdivide  Wards  and  Stakes.  Not  unusually  the  new  Ward 
or  new  Stake  wants  a  little  better  home  than  the  one  they  are  giving  up. 
This  is  like  a  young  man  marrying  and  expecting  the  new  home  for  him- 
self and  bride  to  be  better  than  the  one  that  each  of  them  left.  This  is 
fine  provided  the  new  groom  can  make  the  grade  by  himself ;  otherwise 
not. 

Where  the  old  Ward  home  is  elaborate  and  ample,  arrangements 
should  be  made  for  joint  occupancy  by  the  parent  Ward  and  the  new 
Ward.  We  are  trying  this  out  in  several  places  and  find  it  a  workable  and 
suitable  plan,  provided  the  people  practice  the  Christian  virtues  of  un- 
selfishness, patience,  charity,  give  and  take — particularly  give. 

Our  constantly  increasing  needs,  increasing  by  greater  proportion 
than  our  revenues,  make  this  sort  of  arrangement  year  by  year  more  im- 
portant and  necessary. 

Amusement  halls  should  be  made  to  serve  as  large  units  as  possible. 
While  in  sparsely  settled  communities,  Ward  amusement  halls  may  be 
frequently  desirable,  in  more  thickly  settled  areas  effort  should  be  made 
to  have  for  the  young  people  larger  association  than  a  Ward  provides. 

Speaking  of  a  new  Ward  and  a  new  meeting  house  for  it,  I  should 
like  publicly  to  commend  the  example  just  set  by  the  Tremonton  First 
and  Second  Wards  in  erecting  a  building  for  the  new  Ward.  Other 
Wards  of  the  Church  have  followed  a  similar  plan.  The  old  Ward — Tre- 
monton First — said  to  the  new  Ward :  "We  will  pay  half  of  the  cost  to 
the  Ward  of  its  new  meeting  house,  and  the  new  Ward  can  pay  the  other 
half."  Accordingly,  the  old  Ward  raised  $12,000  to  help  build  the  new 
home  for  their  old  friends  and  associates,  and  the  Bishop  of  the  old  Ward 
and  his  people  report  feeling  better  about  this  effort  than  about  anything 
else  the  Ward  has  ever  done.  I  commend  this  example  to  all  dividing 
Wards. 

BEAUTIFI CATION  PLAN  APPROVED 

I  would  like  to  approve  of  the  plan  that  lies  close  to  Bishop  Ashton's 
heart,  that  of  beautifying  our  towns,  our  meeting  houses,  our  homes. 
There  is  much  to  be  done ;  but  just  paint  by  itself  is  a  wonderful  beauti- 
fier.  There  is  an  old  ranch  saying  that  "Fat  is  a  pretty  color."  Paint 
is  fat  for  barns,  fences,  and  homes. 

I  have  already  spoken  of  the  problem  of  supplying  labor  to  those  who 
need  assistance.  Bishops,  get  the  Welfare  man  some  paint.  Let  him 
paint  his  own  house ;  fix  up  his  own  fence ;  plant  some  trees  in  his  own 


18  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday ,  April  5  First  Day 

yard,  or  some  grass ;  clean  up  his  yard.  If  you  will  do  this,  half  your 
work  of  human  repair  is  done,  and  the  hardest  half,  too. 

Paint  your  meeting  houses,  your  town  hall,  repair  your  sidewalks, 
keep  your  park  or  public  grounds  looking  neat,  keep  up  your  fences. 

AUXILIARY  ORGANIZATIONS  TO  HELP  THE  HOMES 

The  call  of  these  troubled  times  comes  most  insistently  to  the  ears  of 
the  officers  of  the  Auxiliary  associations.  They  are  reconsidering  their 
whole  field  with  a  view  to  see  what  may  be  done  by  them  to  meet  the  needs 
of  the  times.  They  are  undertaking  more  clearly  to  define  their  fields  of 
activity,  to  cut  out  duplications,  and  overlapping — to  eliminate  the  in- 
creasing waste  in  effort,  time,  and  funds. 

One  of  their  chief  concerns  will  be  the  easing  of  the  burdens  on  the 
Bishops  and  Presidents  of  Stakes,  a  relieving  of  the  people  from  as  much 
financial  burden  as  possible,  a  cutting  down  of  general  excess  activities, 
and  helping  the  home  to  assume  its  normal  functions  in  shaping  the  lives 
of  the  young.  For  when  all  is  said  and  done  that  can  be  said  or  done, 
if  the  home  is  not  sound,  the  bulk  of  the  youth  will  fall  into  forbidden 
paths.  The  problem  here  is  not  primarily  the  children,  but  the  parents 
who  have  been  encouraged — unwittingly  encouraged,  if  we  be  charitable 
— to  turn  over  the  training  of  the  youth  to  the  schools,  the  Auxiliaries,  and 
other  instrumentalities.  This  plan  will  never  succeed.  Fathers  and 
mothers  must  know  that  they  are  responsible  for  the  existence  of  their 
children,  and  having  assumed  that  responsibility,  they  cannot  in  the  eyes 
of  God  shirk,  or  shift,  or  ignore  the  responsibility  of  rightly  training 
them,  except  they  shall  bring  themselves  under  condemnation. 

One  of  the  principal,  if  not  the  main,  purpose  of  the  Auxiliaries 
must  be  to  help  the  parents  to  help  their  children,  and  this  can  be  effec- 
tively worked  out  through  the  home. 

CHURCH  EDUCATION 

We  are  trying  the  experiment  in  education  of  studying  the  Gospel  by 
a  semi-scientific  method.  We  are  floundering  a  bit,  not  yet  have  we  got 
our  true  bearings.  So  far  as  I  know,  no  other  Church  is  attempting  to 
do  just  what  we  are  trying.  In  some  churches  members  are  told  not  to 
trouble  themselves  about  doctrines,  but  to  do  what  their  leaders  tell  them. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  required  by  divine  command  to  learn  all  they 
can  about  the  Gospel. 

Critics — higher  and  lower — are  applying  scientific  methods  to  the 
study  of  Religion,  with  somewhat  disastrous  results  to  many  sectarian 
dogmas.  But  we  are  applying  the  system  to  the  Gospel  plan  of  life  and 
salvation  as  revealed  in  the  latter  days.  We  could  surely  not  survive  this 
experiment  except  we  had  the  truth. 

But  we  are  going  forward,  and  generally  speaking  the  faith  of  our 
young  people  is  increasing.  Wherever  this  is  not  true,  it  is  largely  the 
fault  of  the  instruction  given.  Earnest  effort  is  being  made  to  make  sure 
that  sectarianism  does  not  become  a  part  of  our  educational  instruction, 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR 


19 


and  that  the  Gospel  truths  are  taught  in  their  simplicity.  Those  in  charge 
of  our  educational  system  are  strenuously  striving  to  this  end. 

We  could  not  justify  spending  the  tithing  of  the  poor,  the  widow's 
mite,- — and  the  great  bulk  of  our  tithing  is  of  this  sort, — for  any  other 
kind  of  Church  doctrine  education,  than  that  which  taught  the  Gospel  and 
its  restoration  in  its  greatest  simplicity,  unmixed  with  any  man-made 
views. 

WITHDRAWAL  OF  EUROPEAN  MISSIONARIES 

I  would  like  to  say  just  a  few  words  about  the  withdrawal  of  the 
missionaries  from  Europe.  On  August  24,  1939,  it  becoming  increasingly 
apparent  that  our  missionaries  were  not  welcome  either  in  the  belligerent 
.  or  neutral  countries  of  western  Europe,  the  European  Mission  Presidents 
were  requested  to  send  to  America  all  missionaries,  except  a  very  few  who 
would  remain  temporarily  to  man  the  various  Mission  headquarters. 

We  were  blessed  in  having  in  Europe  at  the  time  Elder  Joseph  Field- 
ing Smith  and  Sister  Smith  to  counsel  with  the  various  Mission  Presi- 
dents and  take  general  direction  of  the  situation.  There  were  in  our  Mis- 
sions at  the  time,  including  the  wives  and  children  of  the  Presidents,  697 
persons,  of  whom  61 1  were  young  men  and  63  young  women  missionaries, 
the  other  23  were  Mission  Presidents,  their  wives  and  children. 

The  first  missionary  group  from  Europe  landed  in  New  York  Sep- 
tember 7,  and  the  last  group,  accompanied  by  Elder  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith,  and  Sister  Smith,  landed  on  November  6th,  1939. 

These  returning  missionaries  were  received  by  President  Frank 
Evans  and  Sister  Evans  at  the  Eastern  States  Mission  headquarters  in 
New  York.  The  missionaries  returned  in  23  ships,  each  of  which  had  to 
be  met  and  the  missionaries  transported  to  their  temporary  quarters.  The 
heavy  baggage  handled  exceeded  1,500  pieces;  there  were  more  than 
10,000  letters  and  other  mailed  parcels.  Each  of  these  674  missionaries 
had  to  be  housed  and  cared  for.  Many  landed  without  funds,  and  funds 
had  to  be  advanced  to  them — some  146  small  loans  were  made,  all  repaid 
except  one  small  item.  The  money  received  from  parents  had  to  be  dis- 
tributed, there  were  telegrams  and  cablegrams  to  handle,  and  office  sup- 
plies to  furnish  and  numerous  other  acts  of  helpfulness. 

Furthermore,  as  the  bulk  of  these  missionaries  had  not  filled  a  full 
term  mission  they  had  to  be  reassigned  upon  arrival  to  new  fields  of  labor. 
President  John  H.  Taylor  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy  was  sent  to 
New  York  to  direct  this  work.  Of  the  674  missionaries,  414  Elders  and 
32  lady  missionaries  were  reassigned,  the  rest  were  released. 

President  and  Sister  Evans  had  charge  also  of  getting  these  446  re- 
assigned missionaries  off  to  their  new  fields  of  labor,  and  the  228  released 
off  to  their  homes. 

The  total  cost  of  this  service  by  President  Evans,  in  handling  all 
these  missionaries  and  Mission  Presidents  and  families — a  total  of  697 
persons — was  only  $2,271.47,  or  $3.26  per  person,  for  landing,  housing, 
feeding,  and  transportation  from  ships  to  headquarters  and  from  head- 
quarters to  train. 


20  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  First  Day 

President  Taylor  assisted  President  Evans  in  all  of  this  work.  This 
is  truly  a  great  work.  The  whole  group  was  moved  from  the  disturbed 
areas  in  Europe  to  the  United  States,  and  thence  either  to  their  new  fields 
of  labor  or  to  their  homes,  without  one  accident  or  one  case  of  sickness 
other  than  one  chronic  illness.  The  entire  group  Was  evacuated  from 
Europe  in  three  months,  at  a  time  when  tens  of  thousands  of  Americans 
were  besieging  the  ticket  offices  of  the  great  steamship  companies  for 
passage,  and  the  Elders  had  no  reservations.  Every  time  a  group  was 
ready  to  embark  there  was  available  the  necessary  space,  even  though  ef- 
forts to  reserve  space  a  few  hours  before  had  failed. 

The  European  Mission  Presidents  were  directed  to  place  their  Mis- 
sions in  the  hands  of  the  local  brethren.  When  this  was  done  they  were 
also  directed  to  return  home.  The  first  left  on  December  1,  1939,  and 
the  last  landed  in  New  York  on  March  4,  1940. 

During  the  European  tour  of  President  Grant  three  years  ago  the 
Saints  were  time  and  time  again  urged  to  appreciate  and  assume  their  full 
responsibilities  as  Church  members  and  bearers  of  the  Priesthood.  They 
were  urged  to  cease  placing  so  much  reliance  upon  the  Elders.  The  pres- 
ent situation  gives  point  to  that  counsel. 

Truly  the  blessings  of  the  Lord  attended  this  great  enterprise. 

RESPONSIBILITIES  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

For  our  purposes  today  we  may  say  that  the  Priesthood  is  the  au- 
thority of  God  bestowed  upon  men  to  represent  Him  in  certain  relation- 
ships between  and  among  men  and  between  men  and  God.  This  is  an 
awesome  responsibility.  It  imposes  certain  obligations  upon  the  Priest- 
hood bearers  as  between  themselves,  and  also  as  between  them  and  the 
members  at  large,  and  between  them  and  Deity. 

Quorum  membership  is  something  more  than  a  name.  The  Lord  has 
made  it  abundantly  clear  by  repeated  commandments  that  upon  the 
Priesthood  in  its  organized  form,  and  not  merely  upon  individuals  bear- 
ing it,  rests  the  responsibility  of  instructing,  encouraging,  and  admon- 
ishing the  people.  The  Lord  has  designated  specifically  the  duties  of  the 
Priesthood  in  this  regard,  grade  by  grade.  He  has  given  no  authority 
to  the  Priesthood  to  relieve  itself  of  this  responsibility,  of  instructing, 
encouraging,  and  admonishing,  by  delegating  to  someone  else  this  duty, 
individually  or  by  class.  The  Lord  will  therefore  hold  the  Priesthood 
as  such  responsible  for  a  due  and  proper  instruction  of  Church  member- 
ship in  the  way  of  life  and  salvation. 

The  Priesthood  must  not  either  forget  or  shirk  this  great  responsi- 
bility. The  Church  may  provide  aids  and  helps  through  Auxiliary  organi- 
ations,  schools,  and  otherwise  for  the  doing  of  this  work,  but  the  Church 
cannot  and  does  not  seek  or  aim  to  relieve  the  Priesthood  from  the  obli- 
gations of  this  divine  command,  nor  to  authorize  it  to  shirk  it  or  dodge  it. 
You  bearers  of  the  Priesthood,  bend  your  backs,  and  take  on  this  God- 
placed  burden.  The  Almighty  expects,  indeed  commands  this.  Your 
failure  to  do  so  will  bring  woe  to  the  people,  and  condemnation  upon 
yourselves. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR  21 


WORLD  CONDITIONS 

We  may  return  to  our  Heavenly  Father  our  devout  thanks  that  His 
spirit  of  peace  yet  broods  over  this  land,  and  that  war  has  not  to  this 
point  cursed  us  with  its  woes  and  miseries. 

I  should  like  to  incorporate  by  reference  all  that  I  said  last  October 
about  the  war,  its  causes  and  its  iniquities. 

THE  WOMEN  OF  THE  CHURCH 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  to  the  women  of  the  Church,  the  "first 
aid"  to  the  Priesthood  in  their  trials  and  tribulations.  I  marvel  that  our 
wives  are  willing  to  live  with  us,  with  all  of  our  grumblings,  failings,  and 
shortcomings. 

From  the  beginning  the  women  of  the  Christian  church  have  shown 
their  surpassing  faith  and  devotion.  Only  one  Apostle  stood  near  the 
Cross  while  the  Christ  was  crucified,  but  Mary,  the  mother,  was  there, 
and  Mary  Magdalene,  and  Mary,  the  mother  of  James  and  Joses,  and  the 
mother  of  Zebedee's  children,  and  the  women  that  followed  Him  from 
Galilee.  It  was  Mary  Magdalene  who  was  first  at  the  tomb  when  the  Sab- 
bath had  ended,  and  to  her  Christ  vouchsafed  the  first  view  to  mortals 
of  His  resurrected  body. 

From  that  time  until  now  woman  has  comforted  and  nursed  the 
Church.  She  has  borne  more  than  half  the  burdens,  she  has  made  more 
than  half  the  sacrifices,  she  has  suffered  the  most  of  the  heartaches  and 
sorrows. 

In  the  modern  Church  hers  has  been  the  abiding,  unquestioning 
faith,  the  pure  knowledge,  that  has  enheartened  the  Priesthood  and  kept 
it  going  forward  against  all  odds.  Her  loving  trust,  her  loyal  devotion  were 
the  faithful  anchor  that  held  when  storms  were  fiercest. 

For  all  this  we  are  more  grateful  than  we  can  say.  We  humbly  ask 
the  Lord  to  help  you  sisters  in  the  future  as  in  the  past.  We  Priesthood 
need  your  courage,  your  steadfastness,  your  faith,  your  knowledge,  your 
testimony,  to  cheer  us  on,  to  keep  us  in  the  way. 

Sisters  of  the  Church,  the  chastity  of  the  youth  of  the  Church  is 
largely  in  your  hands.  You  must  enthrone  virtue  in  its  sovereign  place  ; 
you  must  bring  back  modesty,  must  let  the  beauty  of  chaste  blushes  still 
adorn  your  cheeks. 

Mothers  in  Israel,  teach  your  sons  to  honor  and  revere,  to  protect 
to  the  last,  pure  womanhood ;  teach  your  daughters  that  their  most  price- 
less jewel  is  a  clean,  undefiled  body ;  teach  both  sons  and  daughters  that 
chastity  is  worth  more  than  life  itself.  These  are  the  duties  which  the 
Priesthood  looks  to  you  primarily  to  carry  to,  and  to  maintain  in,  that 
cradle  of  all  virtues, — the  righteous  home.  We  Priesthood  shall  help  as 
best  our  natures  permit,  but  the  burden  for  that  task  is  now  and  always 
has  been,  in  the  greatest  part,  yours.  Unless  you  shall  do  this,  the  whole 
world  will  sink  into  a  welter  of  sin  and  corruption.  May  God  help  you 
in  your  task ! 


22  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Dag 

TO  THE  YOUTH  OF  CHURCH 

May  I  say  again  to  the  youth  of  the  Church,  and  first  to  you  daugh- 
ters :  That  man  or  youth  who  demands  without  marriage  as  the  price  of  his 
favor  or  love  the  enjoyment  of  your  body,  has  in  fact  nothing  but  sorrow 
and  degradation  to  give  you  in  return ;  and  next,  to  you  sons :  That 
woman  who  offers  to  you  her  body  outside  wedlock,  invites  you  to  a  feast 
that  brings  disease  and  corruption  that  will  pollute  you  until  death.  And 
any  man  or  woman  who  demands  as  the  price  of  his  favor  or  friendship 
a  surrender  of  any  of  your  righteous  standards  of  living,  is  offering  to  you 
nothing  worth  buying.  What  it  brings  to  you  is  false  as  Evil  itself. 

I  say  all  this  in  soberness,  and  in  such  solemnity  as  I  command,  know- 
ing as  I  know  that  I  live  that  I  speak  the  truth. 

THE  ORGANIZATIONS  COMMENDED 

I  want  to  thank  all  of  the  organizations  of  the  Church  for  their 
great  help  in  carrying  on  the  work  of  the  Church.  Perhaps  I  ought  not 
to  say  help,  perhaps  I  ought  to  say  for  carrying  the  work  on,  for  we  breth- 
ren here  at  the  top  would  be  powerless  if  it  were  not  for  the  sterling  faith- 
fulness of  you  brethren  and  sisters.  I  know  that  the  great  bulk  are  trying 
to  live  righteously  and  to  do  right,  and  I  know  that  the  Lord  will  bless 
them  in  their  efforts. 

LOYALTY  BRINGS  BLESSINGS 

The  Lord  is  pleased  with  your  loyalty  to  those  in  authority,  in  Ward, 
Stake,  and  Church.  The  work  cannot  go  on  growing  without  this  loyalty, 
and  this  loyalty  is  not  to  be  thought  of  as  loyalty  to  the  individuals,  but 
as  loyalty  to  the  work,  to  the  office,  to  the  authority  which  the  individual 
represents.  It  is  loyalty  to  the  Priesthood  of  Almighty  God.  The  indi- 
vidual himself  is  submerged  in  the  divine  authority  he  possesses.  David 
sought  forgiveness  for  raising  his  hand  against  the  Lord's  anointed,  even 
though  the  anointed  one  sought  David's  life.  This  is  the  true  principle 
of  loyalty  applied  in  almost  the  last  extremity. 

From  Cain  until  now,  failure  to  follow  God's  authority  has  brought 
only  condemnation.  Aaron,  Miriam,  Korah  and  his  followers,  the  whole 
camp  of  Israel  suffered  when  they  complained  or  rebelled  against  Moses. 
Likewise  through  the  whole  human  history  of  God's  dealings  with  men. 

From  the  earliest  days  of  this  Church,  malcontents,  apostates,  "sore- 
heads," have  railed  out  with  slander,  falsehood,  derision,  against  those 
whom  God  called  to  lead  the  people.  They  so  treated  the  Prophet,  and 
Brother  Brigham,  and  to  a  lesser  degree,  every  President  who  has  fol- 
lowed. But  the  Lord  has  always  prospered  the  Church  as  it  followed  their 
leadership.  The  detractors  have  gone  down  to  the  oblivion  they  deserved. 
So  it  will  always  be.  The  Prophet  of  the  Lord  has  stood  above  and  be- 
yond the  carpings  of  those  unrighteous  critics.  He  has  always  lived,  as 
our  leader  lives  today,  in  the  kindly  light  of  the  Lord's  approval,  the  re- 
cipient of  the  Lord's  choicest  blessings,  manifested  openly  to  those  who 
will  but  look. 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


23 


May  the  Lord  continue  His  Spirit  to  be  with  us  at  all  times.  May 
He  be  with  us  during  the  remainder  of  this  Conference ;  particularly  may 
He  bless  and  restore  President  Grant  to  complete  health  and  strength, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

An  Anthem,  "My  Soul  is  Athirst  for  God,"  (Dr.  Florence  Jep- 
person  Madsen),  was  sung  by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Chorus.   Soloist :  Edward  Sandgren. 

ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  am  very  grateful,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  for  the  opportunity 
I  have  to  be  present  with  you  this  morning.  The  statesmanlike  ex- 
pression of  the  growth  of  the  Church,  of  the  progress  of  every  activity 
of  the  Church,  and  the  faith  of  the  people,  as  expressed  by  President 
Clark  and  those  who  have  spoken,  has  impressed  me  and  affected  me  very 
greatly.  I  appreciate  the  fact  that  this  work  is  progressing  effectively 
and  under  the  influence  of  the  Holy  Spirit  the  Lord  is  blessing  His  people 
and  enabling  them  to  accomplish  the  work  which  is  before  them. 

I  regret  with  you  very  greatly  the  fact  that  President  Grant  is 
unable  to  be  present  with  us  this  morning ;  yet  I  rejoice  in  great  measure 
that  his  health  is  improving ;  that  he  is  on  the  road  to  recovery ;  and  that 
the  blessings  of  God  are  with  him. 

I  rejoice  in  the  mission  of  peace  which  is  manifest  among  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  among  many  other  people,  and  in  all  that  has  been  said  re- 
garding this  important  quality  and  characteristic.  I  was  impressed  with 
the  testimony  and  prayer  of  Brother  George  T.  Hyde,  imploring  the  Lord 
for  peace  and  the  way  to  overcome  conditions  which  prevail  throughout 
the  world  today,  particularly  in  the  Eastern  Hemisphere. 

WARS  AND  RUMORS  OF  WAR 

The  ways  of  God  are  the  ways  of  peace.  Yet,  in  spite  of  His  efforts 
to  promote  peace  on  earth,  it  is  still  a  fact  that  among  many  millions  of 
people,  particularly  in  the  Eastern  Hemisphere,  wars  and  rumors  of  war 
are  largely  prevalent.  Threats  of  war  are  heard  almost  constantly  in 
the  other  half  of  the  world.  In  this  western  continent  the  larger  part 
of  the  peoples  are  in  the  enjoyment  of  peace.  We  are  grateful  for  the 
fact  that,  for  a  period  at  least,  the  Western  Hemisphere  has  not,  to  a 
large  extent,  in  any  way  been  embroiled  in  all  the  turmoil,  which  will  lead 
we  know  not  where. 

There  are  those,  who,  both  here  at  home,  and  particularly  abroad, 
would  like  to  see  this  great  nation  become  involved  in  these  struggles 
abroad.  So  far,  fortunately,  the  majority  of  the  people  of  the  United 
States,  and,  to  a  very  considerable  extent,  the  people  of  other  western 
nations,  have  been  able  to  keep  their  heads  and  their  common  sense,  and 
to  follow  the  wise  and  ancient  counsels  of  the  Father  of  our  country,  to 


24  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  First  Dag 

beware  of  entangling  alliances  with  the  foreign  nations  of  the  old  world, 
and  not  to  ally  ourselves  for  war  with  any  of  these  countries. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  believe  firmly  in  peace.  We  consider  that 
wars  are  largely  foolish  and  unnecessary,  and  that  the  present  warring 
conditions  are  entirely  without  justification  or  necessity.  With  the  pres- 
ent measure  of  intelligence  among  men,  if  those  engaged  in  strife, 
were  free  from  selfishness,  greed  and  ambition,  peace  would  prevail.  The 
Prince  of  Peace  came  on  earth  in  His  mortal  life  nearly  two  thousand 
years  ago,  but  due  to  the  hatred  and  prejudices  among  men  He  was  un- 
able to  carry  out  His  peaceful  desires  fully  and,  as  He  himself  stated, 
He  "came  not  to  send  peace  on  earth,  but  a  sword."  (Matt.  10:34)  Dur- 
ing the  twenty  centuries  that  have  elapsed  since  His  coming,  there  have 
been  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  prevailing  largely.  As  His  mortal  min- 
istry was  about  to  be  finished,  He  said  to  his  disciples : 

These  things  I  have  spoken  unto  you  that  in  me  ye  might  have  peace. 
In  the  world  ye  shall  have  tribulation. 

QUOTATION  FROM  BRITISH  THINKER 

Recently,  I  noticed  an  article  in  the  Contemporary  Review  written 
by  a  prominent  British  ecclesiast  regarding  the  present  war  conditions, 
and  discussing  the  question  of  universal  peace.  The  statement  is  en- 
titled, "Ruling  and  Overruling."  I  quote  a  few  brief  extracts  there- 
from as  follows: 

The  war  raises  again  the  grave  problem  of  the  relationship  of  God  to 
the  world,  and  of  His  activities  in  the  affairs  of  men.  Many  are  asking 
— Why  did  not  God  intervene  to  prevent  this  dread  calamity,  to  spare 
mankind  this  tremendous  ordeal?  Is  God  inactive  in  His  universe,  and 
His  very  existence  problematic?  If  not,  what  is  the  method  in  which 
His  sovereignty  is  expressed,  and  what  is  the  end  it  seeks  to  achieve? 
Surely,  peace  in  its  essential  meaning  demands  catholicity,  the  common- 
wealth of  mankind,  and  the  community  of  a  truly  human  fellowship.  Is 
the  structure  of  human  society  at  present  sufficiently  strong  and  righteous 
to  rear  and  sustain  this  weighty  and  glorious  edifice?  Obviously,  it  is 
not.  Should  not  the  war,  therefore,  be  regarded  as,  in  part,  the  Divine 
judgment  upon  us?  If  so,  mercy  is  at  its  heart." 

FREE  AGENCY  GIVEN  TO  MEN 

As  indicated  by  the  writer  of  this  article,  many  people  raise  the 
question  as  to  why  God  did  not  intervene  to  prevent  the  great  calamity 
that  has  come  upon  the  earth  and  to  spare  mankind  this  tremendous  or- 
deal. In  my  judgment  the  questions  asked  and  the  issues  raised  do  not 
agree  with  the  fundamental  principles  under  which  the  Almighty  op- 
erates, and  by  which  He  accomplishes  His  purposes.  Men  and  women, 
who  inhabit  this  earth,  inherently  enjoy  the  right  of  free  agency,  or  the 
right  of  choice,  in  their  actions.  Though  God  does  earnestly  desire  and 
strive  for  the  acceptance  of  His  purposes  by  mankind,  He  will  not  exert 
compulsory  means  to  bring  to  pass  His  designs.  As  the  Lord  declared 
to  Cain  when  the  latter  was  angered  with  his  brother  Abel : 


ELDER  SYLVESTER  Q.  CANNON 


25 


If  thou  doest  well,  thou  shalt  be  accepted.  And  if  thou  doest  not 
well,  sin  lieth  at  the  door,  and  Satan  desireth  to  have  thee.  (Writings 
of  Moses.) 

Though  many  men  under  the  influence  of  justice  and  righteousness 
are  led  toward  peace  and  good  will,  those  who  are  influenced  by  selfish- 
ness and  personal  ambition  will  act  contrary  thereto.  The  Prophet  Nephi 
declares : 

Wherefore,  men  are  free  according  to  the  flesh;  and  all  things  are 
given  them  which  are  expedient  unto  man.  And  they  are  free  to  choose 
liberty  and  eternal  life,  through  the  great  mediation  of  all  men,  or  to 
choose  captivity  and  death,  according  to  the  captivity  and  power  of  the 
devil ;  for  he  seeketh  that  all  men  might  be  miserable  like  unto  himself. 
(II  Nephi  2:27.) 

Every  individual  has  the  right  of  choice.  And  just  as  everyone  has 
the  right  of  free  agency,  so  everyone  will  be  held  accountable  for  his  or 
her  choices.  For  all  have  the  intelligence,  and  must  render  an  account- 
ing of  their  actions.  This  is  clearly  portrayed  in  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price,  writings  of  Moses,  Chapter  4,  Verses  1  to  4,  as  follows : 

That  Satan,  whom  thou  hast  commanded  in  the  name  of  mine  Only 
Begotten,  is  the  same  which  was  from  the  beginning,  and  he  came  before 
me,  saying — Behold,  here  am  I,  send  me,  I  will  be  thy  son,  and  I  will 
redeem  all  mankind,  that  one  soul  shall  not  be  lost,  and  surely  I  will  do 
it;  wherefore  give  me  thine  honor. 

But,  behold,  my  Beloved  Son,  which  was  my  Beloved,  and  Chosen 
from  the  beginning,  said  unto  me — Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory 
be  thine  forever. 

Wherefore,  because  that  Satan  rebelled  against  me,  and  sought  to  de- 
stroy the  agency  of  man,  which  I,  the  Lord  God,  had  given  him,  and  also, 
that  I  should  give  unto  him  mine  own  power ;  by  the  power  of  mine  Only 
Begotten,  I  caused  that  he  should  be  cast  down; 

And  he  became  Satan,  yea,  even  the  devil,  the  father  of  all  lies,  to 
deceive  and  to  blind  men,  and  to  lead  them  captive  at  his  will,  even  as 
many  as  would  not  hearken  unto  my  voice. 

These  statements  make  clear  the  fact  that,  because  of  the  domination 
of  men,  in  bringing  about  war,  the  Lord  did  not  intervene,  even  though 
He  has  steadfastly  sought  to  win  mankind  to  peace  and  union  and  right- 
eousness. As  already  stated,  due  to  the  agency  of  mankind  to  make  their 
choices  as  to  their  ways  of  life,  they  will  necessarily  have  to  render  an 
accounting  of  their  acts  in  this  life.  As  was  revealed  to  the  Apostle  John, 
(Rev.  20:12)  regarding  the  accountability  of  all  mankind  for  their  acts: 

And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great,  stand  before  God;  and  the 
books  were  opened:  and  another  book  was  opened,  which  is  the  book  of 
life;  and  the  dead  were  judged  out  of  those  things  which  were  written 
in  the  books,  according  to  their  works. 

JOY  COMES  THROUGH  SERVING  GOD 

The  relationship  of  God  to  the  world,  and  His  interest  in  the  affairs 
of  men,  is  greatly  misunderstood  by  many  of  the  people  of  the  various 
nations.    They  conclude,  apparently,  that  He  is  actuated  by  arbitrary 


26  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

or  dictatorial  attitudes,  instead  of  being  the  embodiment  of  justice  and 
righteousness,  love  and  mercy,  particularly  toward  those  who  seek  to 
know  and  strive  to  do  His  will.  He  is  love.  He  desires  greatly  the  pro- 
gress and  happiness  of  mankind.  He  realizes  that  the  greatest  peace  and 
joy  come  to  men  who  seek  to  harmonize  their  wishes  with  His  will: 
"Men  are  that  they  might  have  joy,"  and  joy  comes  to  those  who  under- 
take to  keep  His  commandments.  But,  if  mankind  choose  to  follow  the 
influence  of  the  adversary,  to  be  guided  by  domineering  or  dictatorial 
leaders,  with  the  accompanying  destructive  results,  they  must  take  the 
unfortunate  consequences. 

THE  SOVEREIGNTY  OF  GOD 

The  question — "Is  God  inactive  in  His  universe,  and  His  very  ex- 
istence problematic  ?  If  not,  what  is  the  method  in  which  His  sovereign- 
ty is  expressed,  and  what  is  the  end  it  seeks  to  achieve?" — indicates  a  lack 
of  faith  in  and  understanding  of  the  great  personages  who  constitute  the 
matchless  governing  and  supreme  power  over  all  things,  by  whom  all 
things  were  created,  whether  visible  or  invisible,  whether  in  heaven,  on 
earth,  in  the  earth,  under  the  earth  or  throughout  the  immensity  of  space. 
The  work  and  the  glory  of  God  is  to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man.  Respecting  the  method  in  which  His  sovereignty 
is  expressed  and  the  end  it  seeks  to  achieve,  the  Lord  has  revealed  the 
following: 

Hearken,  O  ye  people,  and  open  your  hearts  and  give  ear  from  afar ; 
and  listen,  you  that  call  yourselves  the  people  of  the  Lord,  and  hear  the 
word  of  the  Lord  and  His  will  concerning  you. 

Yea,  verily,  I  say,  hear  the  word  of  Him,  whose  anger  is  kindled 
against  the  wicked  and  rebellious, 

Who  willeth  to  take  even  them  whom  He  will  take,  and  preserveth 
in  life  them  whom  He  will  preserve ; 

Who  buildeth  up  at  His  own  will  and  pleasure ;  and  destroyeth  when 
He  pleases  ;  and  is  able  to  cast  the  soul  down  to  hell. 

Behold,  I,  the  Lord,  utter  my  voice,  and  it  shall  be  obeyed. 

Wherefore,  verily  I  say,  let  the  wicked  take  heed,  and  let  the  rebel- 
lious fear  and  tremble;  let  the  unbelieving  hold  their  lips,  for  the  day 
of  wrath  shall  come  upon  them  as  a  whirlwind,  and  all  flesh  shall  know 
that  I  am  God. 

The  sovereignty  of  God,  as  expressed  herein,  is  in  perfect  accord 
with  all  that  God  has  revealed  in  the  Scriptures  on  this  subject. 

In  the  revelations  of  the  Apostle  John  (Rev.  4:11)  the  Elders,  rep- 
resenting the  Church  declare : 

Thou  art  worthy,  O  Lord,  to  receive  glory  and  honor  and  power: 
for  thou  hast  created  all  things,  and  for  thy  pleasure  they  are  and  were 
created. 

God's  sovereignty  is  absolute,  but  the  exaltation  and  happiness  of  His 
children  are  His  glory.  His  absolutism  is  that  of  a  loving  Father  who 
knows  of  no  greater  happiness  than  the  promotion  of  the  welfare  of  His 
family.  How  sovereignty  in  God  can  be  exercised  upon  free  agents 
may  be  difficult  to  explain,  but  the  yielding  of  obedience  fully  does  not 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


27 


interfere  with  free  agency.  There  is  no  inconsistency  in  the  doctrine 
of  God's  sovereignty  and  men's  freedom. 

THE  GOSPEL  BRINGS  PEACE 

Peace  on  earth  depends  upon  the  harmonizing  of  men's  hearts  and 
the  cultivation  of  good  will,  justice  and  righteousness.  It  involves  the 
overcoming  of  selfishness,  unfairness  and  mistrust  among  mankind.  There 
have  been  many  failures  throughout  the  world  in  the  endeavors  to  main- 
tain peace.  Yet  the  effort  toward  the  increase  of  good  will  and  kindliness 
is  so  much  worthwhile  and  is  of  such  great  moment  to  the  welfare  of  the 
human  race  that  it  justifies  continuous  effort  in  every  direction.  It  is 
especially  incumbent  on  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  are  disciples  of  the 
Prince  of  Peace,  and  are  seeking  to  live  in  harmony  with  His  established 
Gospel,  which  is  the  way  to  peace.  The  Lord  has  revealed  again  in  these 
latter  days  the  charge  to  His  followers  to — '"Renounce  war,  and  proclaim, 
peace".  To  endeavor  in  every  proper  way,  through  example  and  influence, 
to  promote  peace  everywhere,  that  the  way  may  be  prepared  so  that 
"nations  shall  not  lift  up  the  sword  against  nations"  but  be  prepared  for 
the  coming  of  the  reign  of  the  Lord,  that  peace  and  good  will  toward  men 
shall  prevail  everywhere.    This,  we  are  confident,  will  eventually  occur. 

I  pray  our  Heavenly  Father  that  His  blessings  may  attend  all  of  us 
in  all  of  our  actions,  that  we  may  endeavor  constantly  to  live  the  Gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  for  that  is  the  way  to  peace  and  prosperity, 
and  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  our  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Former  President  of  the  British  Mission 

Sometimes  it  is  better  to  go  "over  the  top"  without  notice,  than  to 
sit  in  awful  expectation  of  the  zero  hour.  Humbly  I  pray  for  guidance 
and  help. 

I  bring  to  you,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  greetings  from  the  Saints  of 
the  British  Mission.  They  are  attempting  to  carry  on  under  very  trying 
circumstances.  Men  and  women  have  assumed  responsibilities  of  leader- 
ship, and  in  all  the  branches  and  districts  an  effort  is  being  made  to  main- 
tain the  organizations  of  the  Church  and  to  carry  on  under  the  light  of 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  spirit  of  the  British  Saints  is  admirable  indeed.  The  attitude 
of  the  British  people  commands  respect  and  admiration.  They  are 
taking  a  stand  in  defense  of  democracy,  are  fighting  a  war  which  was  not 
of  their  choosing  but  which  I  am  sure  they  will  prosecute  until  the  agres- 
sor  nations  change  their  policy  and  decide  to  live  at  peace  with  their 
neighbors  and  respect  the  rights  of  individuals,  of  groups,  of  races  and 
nationalities. 

We  who  remained  a  few  months  after  the  war  was  declared  have 
some  little  appreciation  of  the  seriousness  of  the  situation  as  it  affects 
our  people  there.  While  we  are  assembled  here  in  a  great  Conference 
of  the  Church,  in  a  peaceful  land,  surrounded  with  comparative  plenty, 


28  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  First  Day 

enjoying  the  comforts  and  in  many  instances  luxuries  of  life,  let  us  not 
be  unmindful  of  the  conditions  that  obtain  in  those  European  countries 
which  are  at  war.  May  we  remember  them,  not  only  in  our  prayers  to 
our  Heavenly  Father,  but  I  suggest  that  those  of  us  who  are  acquainted, 
as  many  of  us  are  through  our  sons  and  daughters  who  have  labored 
there,  with  members  of  the  Church  in  those  countries,  that  we  write 
them  occasionally,  encouraging  them  to  carry  on. 

Your  sons  and  daughters  who  have  been  laboring  there  have  given  a 
good  account  of  themselves.  We  who  were  laboring  with  them  found  real 
joy  and  satisfaction  in  attempting  to  help  them  to  get  a  vision  of  the  great 
missionary  work  of  the  Church.  The  spirit  of  the  Missions  of  the  Church 
is  the  spirit  of  selfless  service.  I  am  sure  that  the  reason  so  many  of 
your  sons  and  daughters,  upon  returning  home,  declare  that  the  time 
spent  in  the  mission  field  was  the  most  enjoyable  of  their  lives,  is  that 
■  they  have  found,  while  there,  that  there  is  more  joy  in  giving  than  in  get- 
ting. 

Sometimes,  when  they  first  arrive,  they  wonder  just  what  they  are 
going  to  get  out  of  their  mission,  and  as  long  as  they  are  thus  disturbed 
they  are  not  very  effective.  Very  soon  after  arriving,  however,  most  of 
them  begin  to  look  around  them  for  ways  whereby  they  may  serve  their 
fellow  men,  and  when  they  are  impressed  by  this  spirit  they  begin  to  un- 
fold and  to  develop,  under  the  light  of  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ, 
and  they  become  effective. 

It  is  regrettable  that  in  some  instances,  upon  returning  home,  they 
find  difficulty  in  making  the  adjustment  that  is  necessary  where  they  find 
it  incumbent  upon  them  to  spend  part,  at  least,  of  their  time  in  establish- 
ing themselves  economically.  I  trust  that  as  time  goes  on  we  may  find 
ways  and  means  of  meeting  this  situation. 

I  trust  that  the  Lord  will  help  us  to  serve  Him  and  keep  His  com- 
mandments, and  show  our  love  for  Him  by  our  willingness  to  serve  our 
fellow  men  at  home,  when  so  much  of  our  time  is  necessarily  given  to 
so-called  worldly  matters.  I  hope  the  time  may  come  when  the  spirit 
of  the  Mission  may  dominate  the  Wards  and  the  Stakes  at  home,  even 
more  than  it  does  today.  I  trust  that  we  may  catch  the  vision  of  the  work 
which  was  undertaken  and  so  effectively  completed  by  the  Master  Him- 
self ;  that  we  may  come  to  see  in  others  the  good  that  is  there  to  be  found : 
that  we  may  emulate  His  example,  and  put  out  of  our  hearts  envy  and 
contention  and  jealousy  and  strife ;  that  we  may  become  sympathetic, 
one  with  another ;  that  we  may  realize  that  real  religion  is  service ;  that 
we  must  convert  conviction  into  action. 

I  trust  that  we,  as  members  of  the  Church  of  Christ,  may  be  able  so 
to  live  the  Gospel  that  others,  seeing  our  works,  may  be  attracted  to  it 
and  receive  of  the  blessings  which  are  in  store  for  those  who  will  observe 
it. 

I  read  this  morning,  before  leaving  home,  a  work  which  I  should 
like  to  read  to  you,  indicative  of  the  thinking  of  some  of  the  leaders  in 
other  lands  today. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


29 


Religion,  in  the  past,  has  always  spent  a  large  proportion  of  its  force 
on  doings  that  were  apart  from  the  real  business  of  life,  on  sacrificing, 
on  endless  prayers,  on  traveling  to  Mecca,  Jerusalem  or  Rome,  on  kissing 
sacred  stones,  bathing  in  sacred  rivers,  climbing  sacred  stairs,  and  a  thou- 
sand things  that  had  at  best  only  an  indirect  bearing  on  the  practical 
social  relations  between  men  and  their  fellows. 

I  thought  of  this  paragraph  as  President  Clark  was  giving  us  his 
masterful  address,  and  as  I  listened  to  the  reports  that  were  read  here. 
I  think  there  is  no  group  in  the  world  which  is  giving  so  unselfishly  for 
the  uplift  of  the  human  family  as  is  the  Qiurch  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  There  is  less  show  and  pomp  and  ceremony,  but  it  seems 
to  me  that  we  are  attempting  to  harness  the  great  spiritual  power  of  the 
Church  to  the  problems  of  human  suffering  and  human  need.  For  these 
things  humbly  I  thank  God. 

I  should  like  to  bear  witness  to  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  upon 
returning  again  from  the  mission  field,  that  God  has  blessed  me  with  a 
testimony  of  the  truth.  I  thank  Him  humbly  for  that,  as  it  is  the  prized 
possession  of  my  life.  I  bear  witness  that  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had 
a  vision,  that  he  saw  and  talked  with  God.  I  know  this  from  the  very  core 
of  my  heart,  and  I  thank  Him  for  that  knowledge. 

I  bear  witness  that  they  who  have  succeeded  him  were  likewise  so 
inspired  and  led;  that  President  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  God. 
It  was  my  privilege  to  travel  with  him  some  two  years  ago  in  Europe. 
I  wish  you  could  have  been  present  in  Heidelburg  when,  as  we  were 
passing  through  the  station,  where  we  could  not  stop,  a  group  of  faithful 
German  Latter-day  Saints,  standing  on  the  platform,  as  he  put  his  head 
out  of  the  car  window,  sang  in  a  language  we  could  not  understand,  but 
with  a  spirit  that  I  have  seldom  witnessed,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God,  for 
a  Prophet."  Today  I  echo  that  sentiment,  and  say  to  you  that  through- 
out the  world  faithful  Latter-day  Saints  esteem  him  and  his  associates 
as  such. 

I  bear  witness  to  the  truth,  and  bring  to  you  from  those  nations  this 
message :  Carry  on,  regardless  of  the  difficulties  that  may  confront  you. 
God  made  of  one  blood  all  nations  of  men,  and  there  is  no  room  in  the 
heart  of  a  Latter-day  Saint  for  hate. 

Let  us  then,  remember  them  today  in  those  countries,  and  let  us  plead 
with  God  our  Father  to  bring  speedily  the  end  to  war.  May  we,  as  we 
enjoy  the  peaceful  surroundings  of  our  great  land,  be  not  unmindful 
of  the  fact  that  they  are  our  brothers  and  sisters,  and  that  He  is  inter- 
ested in  them.  Let  us  love  one  another.  Let  us  emulate  His  example,  for 
He  exposed  each  individual  to  the  X-ray  of  His  penetrating  vision,  and 
revealed  to  him  his  hidden  possibilities,  not  his  defects.  Let  us  keep 
that  in  mind  as  we  think  of  these  warring  nations,  and  expel  from 
our  hearts  anything  of  hate,  and  in  love  serve  our  fellow  men.  I  pray 
God  that  He  will  help  us  so  to  do,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  sang  an  anthem,  "Grant 
Us  Peace,  O  Lord,"  (Evan  Stephens). 


30 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would  like  to  urge  all  of  you  to  drive 
carefully.  Let  us  see  if  it  be  not  possible  to  go  through  one  General 
Conference  without  an  automobile  accident. 


Elder  Albert  Choules,  President  of  the  Teton  Stake,  offered  the 
closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  p.  m. 

FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock  p.  m.,  Friday,  April  5. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  furnished  by 
the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus,  Dr.  Franklin  W.  Madsen 
and  Dr.  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen,  directors,  Dr.  Frank  W.  Asper 
at  the  organ. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  who  presided,  announced  that 
the  Congregation  and  Chorus  would  sing,  as  the  opening  number, 
"High  on  the  Mountain  Top"  (Beesley). 

After  the  singing  of  the  opening  song,  the  invocation  was  of- 
fered by  Elder  J.  Berkeley  Larsen,  President  of  the  Shelley  Stake. 

An  anthem,  "Fierce  Raged  the  Tempest"  (T.  F.  H.  Candlyn), 
was  sung  by  the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus. 

ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  you  who  were  present  at  this 
morning's  session  of  Conference  felt  as  I  felt,  that  it  was  a  wonder- 
ful session.  The  Spirit  of  the  Lord  was  with  us.  It  seems  to  me 
there  never  was  so  much  reported  in  evidence  of  faithfulness  on  the 
part  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  at  any  one  session  of  a  General  Con- 
ference as  at  this  particular  session  referred  to,  and  so  much  instruc- 
tion of  a  definite,  wide-spread  character.  I  cheerfully  bear  testimony 
to  the  things  which  we  heard  this  morning.  I  was  led  to  feel  grateful 
for  my  membership  in  this  Church,  to  be  identified  with  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  who  are  so  faithful  in  living  their  religion,  and  in  carry- 
ing on  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

AN  APPEAL  TO  THE  INDIFFERENT 

I  cannot  help  however  but  realize  that  while  there  is  evidence 
of  faithfulness  in  the  Church,  on  the  part  of  the  membership  there- 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


31 


of,  that  there  is  a  great  deal  of  lukewarmness.  A  great  many  mem- 
bers of  our  Church  do  not  seem  to  appreciate  the  Gospel  as  fully 
as  we  would  like  that  they  should.  In  our  preaching  and  teaching, 
naturally,  while  we  commend  the  faithful  Saints  for  their  faithful- 
ness and  accomplishments,  we  try  to  appeal  to  those  who  are  not 
doing  their  share  in  carrying  on  this  great  latter-day  work,  with  the 
hope  that  they  may  be  made  to  realize  their  opportunities,  and  to  take 
advantage  of  them,  realizing  that  we  are  here  upon  the  earth  to 
work  out  our  salvation  according  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  which 
has  been  restored  to  earth  anew  in  these  last  days. 

As  a  people  I  believe  we  are  pretty  well  taught,  so  well  taught, 
and  our  knowledge  is  so  thorough,  that  if  we  would  live  up  to  the 
Gospel  teachings  and  live  as  we  know  we  ought  to  live,  there  would 
be  little  question  as  to  our  receiving  a  salvation.  We  have  need  of 
being  impressed,  therefore,  with  the  necessity  of  doing  the  things 
that  we  know  we  ought  to  do,  and  also  in  refraining  from  doing  the 
things  which  we  know  we  ought  not  to  do. 

THE  SAVIOR'S  MISSION 

We  read  in  the  scriptures  how  in  the  councils  of  heaven  there 
was  a  rebellion,  and  Christ  our  Lord  and  Savior,  the  first-born  of 
the  Father  in  the  spirit,  came  forth  with  a  declaration  of  principles, 
brief  but  comprehensive :  "Father,  thy  will  be  done,  and  the  glory 
be  thine  forever."  On  the  other  hand,  Lucifer  sought  to  take  away 
from  our  Father  in  heaven  His  honor  and  His  glory,  and  from  man 
the  agency  that  he  there  exercised.  That  the  matters  under  consider- 
ation pertained  to  this  earth  life  is  apparent.  When  the  Savior 
came  upon  the  earth  He  made  the  declaration  repeatedly  that  He 
came  because  the  Father  sent  Him ;  that  He  came  to  do  the  will  of 
the  Father. 

After  His  death,  His  resurrection  and  ascension  to  heaven,  He 
visited  the  remnants  of  the  Nephites  on  this  American  continent. 
In  preaching  to  them,  as  recorded  in  the  twenty-seventh  chapter  of 
Third  Nephi,  He  made  the  declaration  that  He  came  here  to  the 
earth  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father,  and  then  asked  those  present: 
"What  manner  of  men  ought  ye  to  be  ?'  He  answered  it  for  Himself : 
"Verily  I  say  unto  you,  even  as  I  am."  My  interpretation  is  that  as 
the  Savior  came  to  earth  to  do  the  will  of  His  Father,  so  we  came 
to  earth  to  do  His  will,  and  all  of  the  commandments  that  the  Lord 
has  given  are  but  an  expression  of  His  will  concerning  us. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

We  are  told  in  the  scriptures  that  we  should  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth  of  God.  We  are  spending 
a  lot  of  time  and  effort  in  trying  to  persuade  the  members  of  the 
Church,  particularly  our  young  people,  to  refrain  from  the  use  of 
tobacco  and  intoxicating  drinks.  The  Lord  says  expressly  that  it  is 


32  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Dag 

His  will  that  we  do  refrain  from  the  use  of  those  things.  Are  we 
quite  consistent,  brethren  and  sisters  of  the  Church,  when  we 
use  those  things  which  the  Lord  has  expressed,  by  revelation  as 
His  will  that  we  do  not  use? 

TITHES  AND  OFFERINGS 

The  Lord  has  given  to  us  a  plan,  a  financial  plan,  by  which,  if 
the  Latter-day  Saints  were  all  to  observe  it,  I  am  sure  there  would 
be  an  abundance  of  means  in  the  hands  of  those  in  authority,  by 
which,  if  there  were  any  needy  among  us,  their  needs  would  be 
amply  supplied — the  law  of  the  tithe  and  of  the  offerings.  They 
are  not  a  new  doctrine  and  responsibility.  We  read  in  the  Old 
Testament,  in  the  Book  of  Malachi,  how  that  the  Lord  charged 
ancient  Israel  with  robbing  Him  in  their  tithes  and  their  offerings. 
We  have  the  responsibility  here  to  give  our  Fast  offerings,  an  equi- 
valent of  what  we  would  save  by  abstaining  from  food  two  meals  on 
the  Fast  Day,  one  day  each  month.  That  I  regard  as  the  minimum  that 
we  can  give  and  be  justified  before  the  Lord.  Anything  less  than 
that,  would  certainly  not  be  justified,  but  there  is  an  opportunity 
to  give  all  that  we  feel  able  to  give,  and  according  to  the  generosity 
of  our  hearts.  Brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  some  that  I  know 
who  give  many  times  more  than  what  they  save  by  Fasting,  but  a 
great  many  others  give  no  Fast  offerings,  and  the  results  are  there 
is  not  enough  in  the  hands  of  the  Bishops  to  take  care  of  those  who 
are  in  need. 

If  all  the  Bishops  had  carried  out  the  instructions,  and  the 
people  had  complied  with  those  instructions,  I  repeat  what  I  have 
said  before,  there  would  have  been  funds  in  the  hands  of  the  Author- 
ities of  this  Church  that  would  have  taken  good  care  of  the  people 
who  were  in  need.  Not  only  that,  they  would  have  had  a  surplus 
that  would  have  taken  care  of  those  in  need  in  times  of  financial 
distress  such  as  the  people  have  been  going  through  for  the  last 
few  years. 

The  finance  plan,  the  tithe — if  the  tithing  had  been  paid  by  all 
the  members  of  this  Church  since  that  law  was  given,  we  would 
have  had  means  in  the  Church,  by  which  we  could  build  the  taber- 
nacles and  meeting  houses  and  gymnasiums  and  play  centers  of 
the  Wards  and  Stakes  in  Zion  without  calling  upon  the  people.  The 
willing  horse  has  to  carry  the  load  in  this  case,  because  so  many 
of  us  have  not  done  our  duty. 

This  morning  we  heard  of  wonderful  accomplishments  from 
the  use  of  the  tithing  in  the  Church.  I  felt  and  feel  now,  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  where  I  have  paid  a  full  tithing,  I  have  assisted  in 
all  these  splendid  works  for  which  tithing  is  used  in  the  Church. 
I  don't  see  how  those  who  are  not  paying  any  tithing  can  claim 
any  credit  for  what  has  been  done  and  accomplished  in  the  Church 
by  the  use  of  the  tithing. 


ELDER  GEORGE  F.  RICHARDS 


33 


CHOSEN  ONES 

We  read  in  the  Book  of  Abraham,  in  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
how  that  Abraham  was  shown  the  intelligences  that  were  before 
the  world  was.  He  was  told  that  among  them  were  many  of  the 
Lord's  noble  and  great  ones,  whom  He  had  chosen  to  be  His  rulers, 
and  that  he,  Abraham,  was  one  of  them.  Joseph  Smith  was  one  of 
them,  and  those  who  succeeded  him  in  presiding  over  this  Church 
and  directing  its  affairs  no  doubt  were  among  the  noble  ones. 

And  there  stood  one  among  them  that  was  like  unto  God,  and  He 
said  unto  those  who  were  with  Him :  We  will  go  down,  for  there  is 
space  there,  and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we  will  make  an 
earth  whereon  these  may  dwell ; 

And  we  will  prove  them  herewith,  to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things 
whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God  shall  command  them. 

In  other  words,  to  see  whether  they  would  keep  all  His  com- 
mandments. 

A  HIGHER  LAW  INTRODUCED 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  are  being  weighed  in  the  balance,  and 
some  of  us,  I  fear,  will  be  found  wanting  in  respect  to  the  tithes  and 
the  offerings. 

In  ancient  Israel,  because  of  a  lack  of  faith,  Moses  and  the 
Higher  Priesthood  were  taken  from  them,  and  they  were  given  the 
law  of  the  carnal  commandments,  but  they  were  given  the  law  of 
the  tithe.  This  law  of  carnal  commandments  was  as  a  schoolmaster, 
to  bring  them  up  to  a  standard  where  they  could  receive  the  higher 
law  of  the  Gospel.  When  the  Savior  came  He  said  He  did  not  come 
to  destroy,  but  to  fulfil  the  law,  and  He  introduced  the  higher  law 
of  the  Gospel,  the  spirit  of  which  was  to  return  good  for  evil.  If  a 
man  smite  you  on  one  cheek,  turn  the  other.  Love  your  enemies. 
Bless  them  that  curse  you.  Do  good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray 
for  those  who  despitefully  use  you  and  persecute  you. 

This  is  the  spirit  of  the  Christ,  the  higher  law  of  the  Gospel,  and 
if  this  spirit  were  enjoyed  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  there  would  be 
no  difficulty  about  their  keeping  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
with  respect  to  the  tithes  and  the  offerings,  and  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, and  every  other  requirement. 

THE  MEANING  OF  A  HYMN 

We  are  commanded  to  love  the  Lord  our  God  with  all  our  heart, 
soul  and  mind,  and  our  neighbor  as  ourself.  If  we  were  loving  the 
Lord  with  all  our  hearts,  there  is  no  requirement  He  could  make  of 
us  that  we  would  not  gladly  and  willingly  comply  with.  We  sing 
that  beautiful  song: 

We  thank  Thee  O  God  for  a  Prophet, 
To  guide  us  in  these  latter  days; 


34  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  Pint  Day 

We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel, 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 
We  thank  Thee  for  every  blessing 
Bestowed  by  Thy  bounteous  hand. 
We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  Thee, 
And  love  to  obey  Thy  commands. 

I  wonder  how  many  of  us  think  of  that  sentiment  when  we 
are  singing  it,  and  we  sing  it  frequently.  Are  we  thankful  for  a 
prophet  to  guide  us  in  these  latter  days?  If  so,  we  will  follow  his 
lead,  will  we  not?  If  we  were  following  the  lead  of  the  President 
of  this  Church  as  a  prophet  of  God  to  us,  and  to  the  world,  there 
would  be  no  trouble  about  our  keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  about 
our  paying  our  tithing,  and  meeting  the  other  obligations  that  rest 
upon  us  as  members  of  the  Church. 

Do  we  really  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  the  Lord  in  His  appoint- 
ed way,  which  means,  of  course,  sacrifice  and  self-denial?  Do  we 
love  to  obey  His  commands,  to  keep  His  commandments?  Brethren 
and  sisters,  are  we  wholly  consistent?  Do  we  think  of  these  things 
seriously?  They  are  the  weightier  matters,  things  that  pertain  to 
eternity.  If  we  obtain  an  exaltation,  for  which  we  are  candidates, 
it  will  be  not  for  believing  in  these  principles :  It  will  be  for  living 
them,  as  the  Lord  designed  that  we  should. 

JOY  IN  DOING  RIGHT 

We  are  told  in  the  Book  of  Mormon  that  "Adam  fell  that  men 
might  be,  and  men  are  that  they  might  have  joy".  It  is  my  testi- 
mony to  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  so  far  as  my  experience  goes, 
that  when  I  have  met  my  religious  obligations,  the  payment  of  my 
tithes  honestly,  and  my  offerings  generously,  keeping  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  answering  the  calls  that  come  upon  me  in  the  Church, 
my  conscience  is  clear,  and  I  have  real  joy.  I  want  to  tell  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  we  rob  ourselves  of  much  of  the  joy  we 
might  have  in  this  life,  through  a  guilty  conscience,  a  consciousness 
that  our  course  of  life  is  not  approved  of  the  Lord. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  and  reward  those 
abundantly  who  are  making  such  sacrifices  for  the  accomplishment 
of  the  Lord's  purposes,  looking  to  the  saving  of  the  souls  of  His 
children,  the  living  and  the  dead.  And  may  He  help  those  of  us 
who  are  indifferent  to  our  own  interests  and  the  interests  and  wel- 
fare of  the  work  of  the  Lord,  that  our  faith  may  be  renewed  and 
revived,  and  that  we  may  prove  our  faith  by  devotion  to  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


35 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters:  I  rejoice  in  being  again  in  at- 
tendance at  one  of  our  great  General  Conferences.  They  are  refresh- 
ing periods  to  all  of  us  who  believe  in  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENT  GRANT 

We  regret  that  President  Grant  is  not  here.  But  we  all  rejoice 
to  know  that  he  is  improving  in  health.  I  want  to  say  that  President 
Grant  is  not  only  the  President  of  the  Church,  and  our  leader  in  that 
sense,  but  that  the  prophetic  mantle  of  this  day  rests  upon  him.  He 
is  a  prophet  of  God,  and  we  shall  do  well  to  follow  his  example,  listen 
to  his  teachings,  and  be  worthy  of  his  blessings.  During  the  years 
that  I  have  been  permitted  to  labor  among  the  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church  I  have  had  the  privilege  on  many  occasions  to  witness 
the  prophetic  power  that  accompanies  President  Grant,  and  I  bear 
testimony  today,  solemnly  and  soberly,  that  he  is  a  prophet  of  the 
living  God. 

A  STANDARD  TO  THE  WORLD 

In  thinking  about  this  Conference  my  mind  has  wandered  rather 
far  and  wide.  Probably  the  thought  that  has  come  to  me  most  often 
has  been  as  to  the  place  and  purpose  of  the  Church  in  this  war-torn 
world,  this  world  of  strife  and  unhappiness.  What  is  our  mission 
to  the  world  ?  I  have  turned  to  the  scriptures  to  get  the  answer,  and 
have  found  the  answer,  both  in  ancient  and  modern  scriptures.  It 
is  that  the  Church  of  Christ  at  all  times  must  be  as  a  standard  to 
the  nations,  a  standard  to  which  all  nations,  all  people,  all  men  may 
turn  as  they  seek  safety,  peace,  and  happiness. 

It  is  our  great  mission,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  a  standard 
to  all  the  world,  and  we  say  without  hesitation  that  those  who  obey 
and  comply  with  that  standard  will  find  that  which  men  most  desire 
in  life.  It  is  a  bold  declaration,  tremendously  bold,  that  a  small  peo- 
ple in  the  valleys  of  these  mountains,  misunderstood,  often  harassed 
by  persecution,  may  become  the  standard  by  which  all  mankind  may 
be  led  to  peace  and  happiness ;  but  so  it  is.  I  am  not  saying  it.  It  is 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  both  in  ancient  and  modern  days.  If  this  stand- 
ard would  be  accepted  by  the  world  the  things  we  pray  and  hope  for 
would  soon  come. 

INDIVIDUAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

Let  me  say  that  the  Church  of  itself  cannot  be  this  standard. 
Since  the  Church  is  made  up  of  individuals,  it  becomes  an  individ- 
ual responsibility  to  make  the  Church  a  standard  for  the  nations. 
I  must  be  a  standard  in  my  life.  I  must  so  conduct  myself  that  I 
may  be  a  standard  worthy  of  being  followed  by  those  who  seek  the 
greater  joy  in  life. 


36  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  first  Day 

The  question  as  to  individual  responsibility  for  the  welfare  of 
the  Church  was  asked  in  the  early  days  by  members  of  the  Church. 
Several  of  the  men  who  labored  with  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
came  to  him  in  those  early  days  and  said:  "What  shall  we  do?" 
They  might  have  said:  "What  shall  we  do  to  be  saved?"  The 
Lord  in  every  instance  gave  an  answer.  We  have  a  series  of  short 
revelations  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  which  are  the  answers 
to  that  question.  I  find  in  every  one  a  significant  statement,  worded 
almost  identically  in  all  of  these  revelations,  to  Hyrum  Smith,  David 
Whitmer,  Oliver  Cowdery,  and  others  of  less  fame  in  the  Church: 
"Keep  my  commandments,  and  seek  to  bring  forth  and  establish  the 
cause  of  Zion."  That  is  our  business,  the  business  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints. 

From  one  point  of  view,  it  is  selfish  enough,  perhaps,  to  keep  the 
commandments  that  I  may  be  blessed,  but  it  is  something  even 
greater  to  keep  the  commandments  that  Zion  may  be  established.  As 
the  foundation  of  His  great  cause  the  Lord  gave  the  law  of  sacrifice. 
Unless  we  give  of  ourselves  we  cannot  build  Zion,  or  anything  else 
worthy  of  the  great  cause  that  the  Lord  has  given  us.  The  law  of 
sacrifice,  from  the  day  of  Adam  to  the  present  day,  in  one  form  or 
another,  is  the  basic  principle  of  life  among  the  communities  of 
Saints. 

So  we  need,  in  this  Church  and  Kingdom,  for  our  own  and  the 
world's  welfare  a  group  of  men  and  women  in  their  individual  lives 
who  shall  be  as  a  light  to  the  nations,  and  really  standards  for  the 
world  to  follow.  Such  a  people  must  be  different  from  the  world 
as  it  now  is.  There  is  no  opportunity  for  Latter-day  Saints  to  say 
we  shall  be  as  the  world  is,  unless  the  world  has  the  same  aim  that  we 
have.  We  are  here  to  build  Zion  to  Almighty  God,  for  the  blessing 
of  all  the  world.  In  that  aim  we  are  unique  and  different  from  all 
other  peoples.  We  must  respect  that  obligation,  and  not  be  afraid 
of  it.  We  cannot  walk  as  other  men,  or  talk  as  other  men,  or  do  as 
other  men,  for  we  have  a  different  destiny,  obligation,  and  responsi- 
bility placed  upon  us,  and  we  must  fit  ourselves  for  that  great  destiny 
and  obligation. 

JESUS'  PRAYER  FOR  HIS  DISCIPLES 

I  remember  the  wonderful  prayer  offered  by  the  Savior  in  Geth- 
semane  just  before  His  crucifixion,  when  He  talked  to  His  Father — 
perhaps  the  most  sublime  prayer  known  to  us — in  which  He  said : 
"I  pray  not  that  thou  shouldst  take  them" — He  spake  of  His  dis- 
ciples— "out  of  the  world,  but  that  thou  shouldst  keep  them  from 
evil.  They  are  not  of  the  world." 

Just  now,  perhaps,  as  never  before,  we  need  to  remember  that 
this  Church  and  Kingdom,  and  the  members  thereof  are  not  to  be 
out  of  the  world,  but  they  must  not  be  of  the  world.  There  is  a 
vast  difference  between  those  two  conditions — the  difference  be- 
tween light  and  darkness.  We  are  a  peculiar  people  and  ever  shall  be 
and  ever  must  be  a  peculiar  people. 


ELDER  JOHN  A.  WIDTSOE 


37 


Let  us  remember  the  obligation  that  rests  upon  the  Latter-day 
Saints  to  build  Zion.  It  is  not  so  difficult  to  carry  out,  for  the  Lord 
is  our  helper,  and  He  will  be  with  us  and  assist  us  and  instruct  us  and 
make  us  able  to  do  the  work  that  lies  before  us,  if  only  we  have  a 
sincere  desire  to  be  the  Lord's  helpers. 

Let  us  remember  one  of  the  best  known  statements  in  our  Lat- 
ter-day scripture — the  Book  of  Mormon — in  which  Nephi's  faith  is 
evidenced  by  this  statement :  "For  I  know  that  the  Lord  giveth  no 
commandments  unto  the  children  of  men,  save  he  shall  prepare  a 
way  for  them  that  they  may  accomplish  the  thing  which  He  com- 
mandeth  them." 

We  must  be  unique,  separate  in  ideals  from  most  of  the  world. 
We  have  the  greatest  mission  in  all  the  world.  But  let  us  not  be 
afraid.  The  Lord  has  called  us  to  His  Kingdom  and  His  service. 
He  will  make  it  possible  for  us  to  do  the  work  He  would  like  us  to  do. 

THE  COMMANDMENTS  OF  THE  LORD  HAVE  SPIRITUAL  MEANING 

That  brings  me  to  the  final  thought  that  has  been  moving 
through  my  mind  the  last  few  days,  that  all  these  things,  all  the  com- 
mandments, all  the  wonderful  statistics  that  were  read  this  forenoon, 
which  made  us  grateful,  all  the  achievements  of  the  Church,  have 
great  spiritual  significance.  We  of  the  Kingdom  of  God  cannot  walk 
merely  on  earth ;  we  must  walk  in  heaven  as  we  walk  on  earth. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  so  in  modern  revelation,  in  another  well- 
known  and  much-loved  message  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

Wherefore,  verily  I  say  unto  you  that  all  things  unto  me  are 
spiritual,  and  not  at  any  time  have  I  given  unto  you  a  law  which  was 
temporal;  neither  any  man,  nor  the  children  of  men;  neither  Adam, 
your  father,  whom  I  created. 

At  no  time  has  God  given  His  children  a  commandment  which 
does  not  have  a  spiritual  significance.  Often  I  fear  we  fail  in  our 
obedience,  because  we  look  upon  God's  commandments  with  tem- 
poral eyes,  and  fail  to  understand  their  spiritual  meaning.  Let  me 
call  your  attention  to  three  or  four  commandments  which  have  a 
deep  spiritual  meaning. 

THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM  HELPS  IN  SELF-MASTERY 

The  Word  of  Wisdom  is  one  of  the  best  known  of  all  the  laws 
given  to  His  people  in  these  latter  days.  It  was  given  in  the  year 
1833,  and  has  been  preached  by  every  President  and  leader  of  the 
Church.  Every  father  and  mother  should  be  preaching  and  teach- 
ing the  Word  of  Wisdom — a  protection  to  the  body  against  ill  health. 
The  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wisdom  does  give  us  sound  bodies, 
lengthens  out  our  lives  here  on  earth,  gives  us  clear  minds,  wisdom 
and  understanding;  but  it  has  even  a  greater  meaning  than  that,  a 
spiritual  meaning.  For  if  I  am  able  to  observe  the  Word  of  Wisdom, 
refrain  from  the  things  forbidden  in  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  do  the 


38  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  Pttst  Day 

things  there  advised,  I  thereby  become  master  of  my  appetites.  I 
can  look  my  appetites,  as  it  were,  in  the  face,  and  say :  "Get  thee  be- 
hind me."  I  am  master,  not  subject  to  an  appetite.  The  cigarette 
is  not  my  master,  I  am  the  master.  This  glass  of  liquor  is  not  my 
master,  I  am  the  master.  Can  the  Lord  build  Zion,  can  He  establish 
the  cause  of  Zion,  can  He  make  us  a  standard  for  all  the  nations  to 
follow  unless  we  are  masters  of  ourselves?  If  we  are  but  slaves  to 
an  appetite,  what  can  the  Lord  do  with  us?  Great  as  He  is  the  work 
shall  fail. 

TITHING  IN  A  SPIRITUAL  SENSE 

Take  another  law  that  has  been  talked  about  several  times  here 
today,  the  law  of  tithing.  It  has  built  meeting  houses,  sent  me)n 
and  women  on  missions,  maintained  our  Temples,,  and  the  many 
activities  that  President  Clark  reported  in  his  stirring  address  this 
morning.  The  spiritual  value  of  tithing  is  that  if  I  obey  the  law  of 
tithing  sincerely  I  separate  myself  from  the  love  of  earthly  things, 
and  become  strong  enough  to  love  the  things  of  heaven  better  than 
the  things  of  earth.  No  man  can  rise  very  high  who  lives  by  earthly 
things  alone.  The  things  of  earth  drag  us  down  unless  spiritually 
made  alive.  I  must  look  upon  things  of  the  earth  merely  as  helps 
in  my  temporal  life,  no  more  than  that. 

I  believe  that  until  mankind  is  able  to  divorce  itself  from  its 
love  of  earthly  things  we  shall  not  be  able  to  build  God's  kingdom 
or  be  a  standard  for  the  nations  to  follow. 

Another  principle  spoken  of  here  today — missionary  work — has 
a  distinct  spiritual  equivalent.  In  it  lies  a  spiritual  principle.  I  cre- 
ate and  develop  within  myself,  when  I  give  of  my  time  and  means 
and  talents  to  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  a  love  for  my  fellow  men, 
brotherly  love.  God  is  love.  Without  love  we  can  do  nothing  in  the 
building  of  His  Kingdom. 

WORK  FOR  THE  DEAD  DEVELOPS  SPIRITUALITY 

And  fourth  and  last — although  many  might  be  dealt  with  in  this 
fashion — -is  the  work  that  will  be  celebrated  here  tonight  in  the  Tab- 
ernacle. One  hundred  years  ago  the  first  baptisms  for  the  dead  were 
performed.  Since  then  we  have  done  a  tremendous  amount  of  work 
for  the  dead.  We  have  built  Temples  and  spent  time  and  money  in 
gathering  genealogies.  We  spend  days  and  days  in  the  Temples 
serving  the  dead.  The  spiritual  principle  back  of  that  activity  is 
the  development  of  a  more  perfect  love,  a  more  complete  unselfish- 
ness. It  is  well  enough  to  preach  to  those  who  are  living.  They  may 
become  my  friends  and  neighbors,  my  helpers,  I  may  see  the  fruits  of 
my  labors,  but  it  is  quite  different  to  spend  my  strength  and  time 
and  money  for  those  long  since  dead,  who  are  to  me  only  names. 
By  giving  myself  in  the  spirit  of  true  helpfulness  to  those  that  have 
gone  before  me,  I  develop  within  myself,  within  my  heart  and  soul, 
an  abounding  love  very  near  to  that  of  God  Himself.   Then  the  sel- 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


39 


fishness  of  the  world  fades  away,  and  upon  the  conquest  of  selfish- 
ness hinges  all  human  welfare. 

ZION  TO  BE  BUILT  BY  OVERCOMING  SELFISHNESS 

I  want  to  call  the  attention  of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  the  fact 
that  there  are  always  two  sides  to  Gospel  principles,  the  one  per- 
taining to  this  earth  for  our  guide  and  help  here,  and  the  other  deal- 
ing with  the  eternal  spiritual  realities,  the  eternal  principles  of  the 
Gospel  by  which  men  touch  the  unseen  world.  What  a  standard 
to  all  the  world  we  would  be  if  we  all  were  masters  of  ourselves, 
of  our  appetites,  if  we  could  set  aside  earthly  joys  for  spiritual  wel- 
fare !  If  we  really  loved  our  fellowmen,  if  we  were  really  impelled 
by  unselfishness  in  all  that  we  do,  then  we  would  be  a  standard  to  the 
nations,  the  power  of  the  Lord  would  be  ours,  and  Zion  would  be 
built  through  our  efforts. 

God  bless  us  in  all  that  we  do  in  behalf  of  this  great  work.  I 
bear  testimony  to  the  truth  of  the  restored  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  its  prophetic  power  and  service,  from  Joseph  Smith  to  our 
present  leader,  and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

All  the  days  of  my  life — and  they  are  now  many — I  have  been 
brought  up  under  the  influence  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints.  My  heart  is  full  of  gratitude  that  I  have  a  member- 
ship in  this  Church.  I  remember  from  my  very  youth  many  of  the 
testimonies  that  have  come  to  me  by  reason  of  that  membership. 
Many,  many  times  has  the  Lord  manifested  unto  me  the  truth  of 
His  everlasting  Gospel  as  it  has  been  restored  to  the  earth  through 
the  instrumentality  of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  in  the  day  and 
age  in  which  we  live. 

A  TESTIMONY  AT  AN  EARLY  AGE 

It  was  only,  very  likely,  a  few  days  or  weeks  after  my  baptism, 
which  occurred  shortly  after  I  was  eight  years  of  age,  that  I  re- 
ceived a  testimony.  I  did  not  then  know  definitely  just  what  it  was  ; 
I  hardly  appreciated  what  it  meant,  but  the  Lord  manifested  to  me 
the  truth  of  this  work  in  my  boyhood.  I  recollect  very  well  a  re- 
markable incident  which  occurred  as  I  was  coming  home  from 
school  one  day  (the  school  being  located  across  the  street  eastward 
from  the  present  location  of  the  West  High  School,  in  the  building 
then  known  as  the  Union  Academy,  under  the  tutorship  of  Doctor 
Doremus),  returning  by  my  usual  route  up  North  Temple  Street, 
then  known  as  Jordan  Street,  on  the  south  bank  of  City  Creek,  which 
was  a  winding,  deep  canyon  stream  going  down  Jordan  Street  until 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday.  April  5  First  Day 

it  entered  into  the  Jordan  River.  City  Creek  was  bounded  on  either 
side  by  wild  rose  bushes  and  willows.  As  I  was  wandering  home 
after  school  I  came  to  a  place  immediately  north  of  where  the 
Temple  now  stands — ("The  Temple  not  built,  but  scattered  'round 
in  native  rock  upon  the  ground").  As  I  went  down  close  to  the 
edge  of  the  creek  and  then  arose  to  a  higher  elvation  it  seemed  to 
me  that  I  was  almost  lifted  to  heaven.  I  felt  the  power  of  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  upon  me.  I  did  not  then  know  what  it  was,  but  I  was 
made  happy  and  full  of  joy  and  gladness,  even  to  overflowing.  A 
boy,  a  lad  of  nine  years  of  age,  to  receive  such  a  deep  impression 
that  to  this  day  it  has  remained  with  me,  vivid  in  my  memory,  even 
to  the  smallest  details  ! 

I  learned  to  recognize  what  this  feeling  was  when  in  later  years 
I  traveled  as  a  missionary  and  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  to  me 
and  manifested  its  power  by  giving  me  words  of  utterance  in  setting 
forth  the  principles  of  eternal  life.  And,  I  said  to  myself,  "that  is 
just  exactly  the  same  feeling  that  I  had  as  a  boy  when  I  stood  upon 
the  bank  of  City  Creek  north  of  where  the  Temple  now  stands.  The 
Lord  poured  out  His  Spirit  upon  me  and  I  felt  it  in  every  fiber  of  my 
being.  And  now  here  as  I  am  called  abroad  to  proclaim  this  ever- 
lasting Gospel,  comes  this  same  testimony,  and  I  know  that  it  came 
from  God." 

A  PRAYER  IN  THE  CANYON 

That  is  only  one  of  the  many  testimonies  that  I  have  had.  I 
do  not  mind  now  telling  one  or  two,  for  I  have  had  many  of  them  in 
the  course  of  my  experiences,  but  they  have  been  for  me.  When  I 
went  upon  my  first  mission  I  was  blessed  by  President  Brigham 
Young.  He  laid  his  hands  upon  my  head  on  the  twenty-second  day 
of  October,  1875,  and  blessed  me  and  ordained  me  a  Seventy  and 
set  me  apart  for  my  first  mission,  which  was  in  Switzerland  and 
Germany.  I  went  upon  my  mission,  but  prior  to  my  departure  I  had 
been  working  at  my  father's  saw-mills  in  Big  Cottonwood  Canyon. 
I  hardly  knew  that  Conference  was  in  session  in  October,  1875.  One 
day  a  strange  feeling  came  over  me  as  I  stood  upon  the  top  of  a  large 
pile  of  lumber,  filling  orders  that  had  come  from  Salt  Lake  City  to 
my  father's  lumber  mill.  And  an  impulse  came  to  me  to  "get  down 
from  this  pile  of  lumber  and  go  up  to  the  office"  which  was  a  lumber 
shanty  serving  the  three-fold  purpose  of  my  bedroom,  store  and 
office,  where  I  kept  the  accounts  of  the  men  that  were  employed 
around  the  mill.  I  also  had  the  task  of  measuring  the  logs  as  they 
came  to  the  mill,  and  the  lumber  as  it  came  from  the  mill.  These 
loggers  indulged  in  a  great  deal  of  profanity  and  when  we  remon- 
strated with  them  they  claimed  the  oxen  understood  no  other  lan- 
guage. I  mention  this  so  you  will  understand  the  environment  in 
which  I  then  found  myself.  Without  knowing  why  I  followed  that 
impulse,  I  descended  from  the  tall  pile  of  lumber  and  went  into  the 
office,  and  as  soon  as  I  did  so  I  closed  the  door,  and  approaching  the 


ELDER  RULON  S.  WELLS 


41 


middle  of  the  room  (there  was  nothing  to  lean  upon  at  all)  I  fell 
down  upon  my  knees  and  prayed  unto  God  that  He  would  send  me 
where  He  wanted  me  to  go.  I  did  not  know  why  I  said  that;  I  was 
not  aware  of  the  Conference  then  being  held,  nor  had  I  any  intima- 
tion whatever  of  receiving  a  missionary  call,  but  at  that  very  time 
(I  do  not  know  that  it  was  the  identical  minute,  but  it  is  quite 
possible  the  Conference  was  in  session,  and  my  name  was  being 
called  with  many  others  to  go  upon  a  mission.)  the  Lord  com- 
pelled me  to  get  upon  my  knees  and  ask  for  this  blessed  privilege 
of  being  the  bearer  of  glad  tidings  in  the  days  of  my  young  manhood, 
to  go  out  into  the  world.  What  was  this  manifestation?  Surely 
it  must  have  been  that  same  Spirit  that  took  possession  of  me  in 
my  boyhood  days. 

The  following  day  my  mother  rode  on  horseback  up  to  the  saw- 
mill to  let  me  know  that  I  had  been  called  upon  my  mission. 

Let  me  here  say  that  at  this  time  I  was  occasionally  associated 
with  people  entertaining  non-Mormon  views,  some  of  them  being 
infidels  and  atheists,  but  in  every  discussion  I  found  myself  defend- 
ing the  existence  of  God.  I  may  have  been  somewhat  neglectful  of 
my  duties,  although  I  was  always  more  or  less  of  a  religious  turn  of 
mind,  and  had  been  reading  some  books  that  probably  were  not 
as  wholesome  as  they  might  have  been — Ingersoll  and  other  infidels 
— and  my  mind  had  become  a  little  bit  disturbed. 

A  REMARKABLE  DREAM 

While  on  my  way  to  my  mission  field,  crossing  the  ocean  on 
the  Steamship  Dakota,  I  went  down  into  the  salon  of  the  ship  one 
day,  and  lay  upon  one  of  the  cushioned  benches  surrounding  the 
eating  tables,  where  I  fell  asleep.  While  asleep  the  Lord  appeared 
to  me  in  a  dream  and  I  saw  Him  standing  before  me ;  and  by  His  side 
was  William  W.  Taylor,  one  of  the  other  missionaries,  a  son  of 
President  John  Taylor,  a  boy  like  myself  going  upon  his  first  mis- 
sion. He  stood  by  the  side  of  the  Savior,  and  the  Savior  extended 
His  hand  to  me  and  grasping  my  hand,  holding  it  tight,  looked  at  me 
in  the  face  and  said:  "Will  you  ever  doubt  again?"  Brother 
Taylor,  who  stood  beside  Him  said :  "I  believe  that  is  enough  for 
him."   With  that,  the  Lord  let  go  of  my  hand  and  I  awoke. 

That  is  only  another  instance  of  how  the  Lord  has  been  training 
and  preparing  me  for  my  life's  ministry,  and  I  know  that  this  is  His 
work.  I  could  recite  many  other  experiences  that  I  have  had  in  my 
long  life,  many  wonderful  testimonies  given  to  me.  I  have  not 
published  them ;  I  have  not  given  them  out  in  public  meetings ;  I  do 
not  remember  ever  having  done  so  before.  I  hope  that  I  may  be 
pardoned  if  I  ask  of  you  now,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  to  accept 
of  this  testimony  one  hundred  percent,  for  I  know  that  this  is  the 
work  of  the  Lord  and  that  He  has  commissioned  His  servants  to 
carry  the  Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  for  it  is  to  be  preached 
as  a  witness  unto  all  nations  before  the  end  shall  come. 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Pay 

ADMIRATION  FOR  LEADERS 

I  bear  testimony  that  this  is  the  work  of  the  Lord  and  I  uphold 
and  sustain  this  work  and  the  men  who  have  been  chosen  to  stand 
at  the  head.  How  I  have  admired  their  administration,  and  how  I 
do  admire  President  Grant  and  his  counselors  and  our  file  leaders 
who  are  now  leading  the  affairs  of  this  Church !  How  I  do  admire  the 
wonderful  work  that  is  being  carried  on  by  these  men  of  God !  I 
do  more  than  admire  them ;  I  love  them  with  a  love  unfeigned,  and 
I  know  that  they  are  true  servants  of  God.  May  the  Lord  help  us 
all  and  bless  us  according  to  our  needs,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

Supplement  to  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells'  Sermon 

AN  ASSURANCE  OF  THE  LORD'S  APPROVAL 

I  have  in  mind  another  very  extremely  interesting  experience 
which  preceded  my  call  to  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy.  I  told 
a  personal  friend  of  mine  who  was  commenting  on  my  Conference 
address  of  this  experience,  and  she  remarked  that  I  should  have 
included  it  also  in  my  talk,  so  I  am  taking  the  liberty  now  of  relating 
it  although  it  was  not  delivered  in  my  Conference  Talk ! 

April  6th,  1892,  the  capstone  of  the  Temple  (  SaltLake)  was 
laid,  and  during  the  year  that  followed  a  campaign  to  secure  suf- 
ficient money  to  finish  the  Temple  was  inaugurated  and  carried  to 
a  successful  conclusion,  and,  as  well  known,  the  Temple  was  dedi- 
cated April  6,  1893,  just  forty  years  after  the  laying  of  the  corner 
stone  in  1853.  Like  many  others  I  took  part  in  this  campaign  and 
assisted  in  making  the  collection  from  members  of  our  Ward,  I  being 
one  of  the  workers  in  the  18th  Ward.  Also  like  others  I  had  a  strong 
desire  to  put  myself  in  a  proper  condition  for  entering  the  Temple  at 
the  time  of  its  dedication.  I  wanted  to  receive  another  manifesta- 
tion of  the  Lord's  approval  of  me,  and  I  prayed  to  Him  earnestly 
that  I  might  receive  the  assurance  that  I  was  approved  of  Him.  I 
did  not  ask  that  I  might  see  an  angel  or  hear  a  voice  from  heaven,  I 
only  wanted  to  know  that  I  had  His  approval  of  me  as  a  member 
of  His  Church,  worthy  of  attending  the  dedication  of  the  Temple.  I 
knew  nothing  of  the  vacancy  existing  in  the  First  Council  of  the 
Seventy  until  I  was  notified  in  a  note  received  from  Brother  George 
Reynolds,  who  was  then  private  secretary  of  the  First  Presidency, 
who  notified  me  that  I  had  been  selected  to  fill  the  vacancy  occa- 
sioned by  the  death  of  Jacob  Gates  as  one  of  the  First  Seven  Presi- 
dents of  Seventies.  This  notification  was  received  on  April  5,  1893, 
and  my  name  was  presented  at  the  Conference  held  that  day,  and  I 
was  set  apart  the  same  day.  On  April  6  1  sat  with  my  brethren  of 
the  First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies  on  the  stand  and  while 
sitting  there  I  commented  to  myself:  "Well,  I  have  heard  no  voice, 
and  I  have  seen  no  angel,  but  here  I  am,  and  I  feel  I  have  been  ac- 
cepted and  approved  of  God.'1' 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  sang  an  athem,  "Open 
Our  Eyes"  (W.  C.  Macfarlane). 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


43 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

To  say  that  these  are  troublous  times  characterized  by  strenu- 
ous struggles  for  goods,  position  and  power  is  to  say  something  trite. 
It  is  equally  trite  to  say  these  times  are  also  characterized  by  re- 
ligious indifference  and  doubts,  moral  delinquencies  and  a  worship 
of  mammon.  So  no  one  questions  the  need  of  reforms  or  of  helpful 
admonition  relative  to  many  things. 

We  who  are  gathered  here  are  deeply  concerned,  of  course,  with 
the  faith  and  practices  of  our  people.  Partaking  of  the  spirit  of  the 
times  there  is  more  or  less  questioning  among  us  relative  to  these 
things.  Conditions  are  different  and  are  continually  changing. 
Should  not  some  of  our  practices  likewise  change  is  a  question  fre- 
quently asked.  In  view  of  all  this  some  even  of  our  devout  members 
ask  for  advice  touching  matters  of  our  faith  and  practice. 

COMMANDMENTS  REGARDING  THE  SABBATH 

A  question  in  the  minds  of  many,  particularly  of  our  young 
people,  asks  what  is  a  proper  observance  of  the  Sabbath  day — what 
may  we  do  and  may  not  do  on  Sunday?  And  in  view  of  what  they 
see  this  is  a  reasonable  question  to  ask.  They  are  familiar  with  the 
injunctions  given  to  ancient  Israel : 

Remember  the  Sabbath  day  to  keep  it  holy. 
Six  days  shalt  thou  labor,  and  do  all  thy  work ; 

But  the  seventh  day  is  the  Sabbath  of  the  Lord  thy  God;  in  it  thou 
shalt  not  do  any  work,  thou  nor  thy  son,  nor  thy  daughter,  thy  manservant, 
nor  thy  maidservant,  nor  thy  cattle,  nor  thy  stranger  that  is  within  thy 
gates.  (Exodus  20:8-11.) 

This  quotation  is  made  of  course  from  the  Ten  Commandments. 
But  concerning  the  Sabbath  we  may  further  read  that  the  Lord  spoke 
to  Moses,  commanding  him  thus : 

Speak  thou  also  unto  the  children  of  Israel,  saying,  verily  my  Sab- 
baths ye  shall  keep :  for  it  is  a  sign  between  me  and  you  throughout  your 
generations;  that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  Lord  that  doth  sanctify 
you. 

Ye  shall  keep  the  Sabbath  therefore ;  for  it  is  holy.  *  *  * 
Wherefore  the  children  of  Israel  shall  keep  the  Sabbath,  to  observe 
the  Sabbath  throughout  their  generations,  for  a  perpetual  covenant.  It 
is  a  sign  between  me  and  the  children  of  Israel  forever.  (Exodus 
31:13-17.) 

A  violation  of  this  law  of  the  Sabbath  by  ancient  Israel  was  a 
matter  so  serious  that  the  Lord  commanded  the  offender  should  be 
put  to  death. 

In  the  course  of  Israelitish  history  we  read  that  successive 
prophets  rebuked  the  people  for  neglect  or  profanation  of  the  Sab- 
bath. Nehemiah  ascribed  the  affliction  of  the  nation  to  the  for- 
feiture of  divine  protection  through  Sabbath  violation  (Neh.  13: 


44  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

15-22).  Through  Ezekiel  the  Lord  reaffirmed  the  significance  of 
the  Sabbath  as  a  mark  of  His  covenant  with  Israel,  and  sternly  up- 
braided those  who  observed  not  the  day.    (Ezek.  20:12-24) 

Yes,  our  moderns  say,  ancient  Israel  was  taught  that  the  Sab- 
bath day  was  holy  and  its  profanation  was  a  very  serious  offense. 
But  conditions  then  were  vastly  different  from  those  of  today.  We 
agree. 

TEACHINGS  OF  MODERN  SCRIPTURES 

But  for  guidance  in  matters  of  faith  and  practice,  Latter-day 
Saints  are  not  wholly  dependent  upon  the  Bible  and  ancient  proph- 
ets. Fortunately  we  have  modern  scriptures  and  modern  prophets 
— invaluable  possessions.  The  Lord  has  spoken  in  this  dispensation 
as  well  as  in  dispensations  of  biblical  times. 

What  do  these  scriptures  and  prophets  teach  in  our  day  relative 
to  Sabbath  observance  and  other  religious  duties?    Let  us  see. 

As  early  as  August,  1831,  only  sixteen  months  after  the  Church 
was  organized,  the  Lord  gave  a  very  beautiful  revelation  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  reaffirming  the  biblical  code  of  a  religious 
life  acceptable  to  Him. 

I  quote  from  Section  59  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants : 

5.  Wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  commandment,  saying  thus :  Thou 
shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind, 
and  strength ;  and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve  Him. 

6.  Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  Thou  shalt  not  steal ; 
neither  commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  anything  like  unto  it. 

7.  Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things. 

8.  Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the  Lord  thy  God  in  righteous- 
ness, even  that  of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

9.  And  that  thou  may  est  more  fully  keep  thyself  unspotted,  from  the 
world,  thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  thy  sacraments 
upon  my  holy  day ; 

10.  For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed  unto  you  to  rest  from  your 
labors,  and  to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most  High ; 

11.  Nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be  offered  up  in  righteousness  on  all 
days  and  at  all  times ; 

12.  But  remember  that  on  this,  the  Lord's  day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine 
oblations  and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High,  confessing  thy  sins 
unto  thy  brethren,  and  before  the  Lord. 

13.  And  on  this  day  thou  shalt  do  none  other  thing,  only  let  thy  food 
be  prepared  with  singleness  of  heart  that  thy  fasting  may  be  perfect,  or, 
in  other  words,  that  thy  joy  may  be  full. 

14.  Verily,  this  is  fasting  and  prayer,  or  in  other  words,  rejoicing 
and  prayer. 

15.  And  inasmuch  as  ye  do  these  things  with  thanksgiving,  with 
cheerful  hearts  and  countenances,  not  with  much  laughter,  for  this  is  sin, 
but  with  a  glad  heart  and  a  cheerful  countenance — 

16.  Verily  I  say,  that  inasmuch  as  ye  do  this,  the  fulness  of  the  earth 
is  yours,  the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls  of  the  air,  and  that  which 
climbeth  upon  the  trees  and  walketh  upon  the  earth ; 

17.  Yea,  and  the  herb,  and  the  good  things  which  come  of  the  earth, 
whether  for  food  or  for  raiment,  or  for  houses,  or  for  barns,  or  for  or- 
chards, or  for  gardens,  or  for  vineyards; 

18.  Yea,  all  things  which  come  of  the  earth,  in  the  season  thereof, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


45 


are  made  for  the  benefit  and  use  of  man,  both  to  please  the  eye  and  to 
gladden  the  heart; 

19.  Yea,  for  food  and  for  raiment,  for  taste  and  for  smell,  to 
strengthen  the  body  and  to  enliven  the  soul. 

20.  And  it  pleaseth  God  that  He  hath  given  all  these  things  unto 
man;  for  unto  this  end  were  they  made  to  be  used,  with  judgment,  not 
to  excess,  neither  by  extortion. 

21.  And  in  nothing  doth  man  offend  God,  or  against  none  is  His 
wrath  kindled,  save  those  who  confess  not  His  hand  in  all  things,  and 
obey  not  His  commandments. 

22.  Behold,  this  is  according  to  the  law  and  the  prophets ;  where- 
fore, trouble  me  no  more  concerning  this  matter. 

23.  But  learn  that  he  who  doeth  the  works  of  righteousness  shall 
receive  his  reward,  even  peace  in  this  world,  and  eternal  life  in  the 
world  to  come. 

24.  I,  the  Lord,  have  spoken  it,  and  the  Spirit  beareth  record. 
Amen.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  59:5-24.) 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITHES  ADVICE 

But  the  critic  who  wants  a  free  Sunday  may  say  this  revelation 
was  given  a  hundred  years  ago  when  conditions  were  also  vastly 
different  from  those  today.  In  reply  I  call  attention  to  the  fact  that 
the  Church  has  today  a  divinely  inspired  leadership  as  it  had  then. 
What  do  these  leaders  say?  Let  me  quote  some  of  the  words  of 
President  Joseph  F.  Smith  as  found  in  "Gospel  Doctrine,"  as 
follows : 

The  Sabbath  is  a  day  of  rest  and  worship  designated  and  set  apart 
by  special  commandment  of  the  Lord  to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  we  should  honor  and  keep  it  holy.  We  should 
also  teach  our  children  this  principle. 

True,  Sunday  is  a  day  of  rest,  a  change  from  the  ordinary  occupa- 
tions of  the  week,  but  it  is  more  than  that.  It  is  a  day  of  worship,  a 
day  in  which  the  spiritual  life  of  man  may  be  enriched.  A  day  of  indolence, 
a  day  of  physical  recuperation  is  too  often  a  very  different  thing  from 
the  God-ordained  day  of  rest.  Physical  exhaustion  and  indolence  are 
incompatible  with  a  spirit  of  worship.  A  proper  observance  of  the  duties 
and  devotions  of  the  Sabbath  day  will,  by  its  change  and  its  spiritual 
life,  give  the  best  rest  that  men  can  enjoy  on  the  Sabbath  day. 

What  shall  we  do  on  the  Sabbath  day?  *  *  *  Honor  the  Sabbath  day 
and  keep  it  holy,  just  as  the  Lord  has  commanded  us  to  do.  Go  to  the 
house  of  prayer.  Listen  to  instructions.  Bear  testimony  to  the  truth.  *  *  * 
When  we  go  home,  get  the  family  together.  Let  us  sing  a  few  songs, 
read  a  chapter  or  two  from  the  Bible,  Book  of  Mormon,  or  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  discuss  principles  pertaining  to  advancement  in  divine 
knowledge.  *  *  * 

It  is  imperatively  necessary  at  all  times,  and  especially  so  when  our 
associations  do  not  afford  us  the  moral  and  spiritual  support  which  we 
require  for  our  advancement,  that  we  go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord  to 
worship  and  mingle  with  the  Saints,  that  their  moral  and  spiritual 
influence  may  help  to  correct  our  false  impressions  and  restore  us  to  that 
life  which  the  duties  and  obligations  of  our  conscience  and  true  religion 
impose  upon  us." 

The  reason  for  this  required  course  upon  the  Sabbath  day  is  plainly 
stated  in  the  revelations.  It  is  that  one  may  more  fully  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world ;  and  to  this  end,  also,  the  Saints  are  required  to 
go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and  offer  up  their  sacraments  on  the  Sabbath  day. 

Now,  what  is  the  promise  to  the  Saints  who  observe  the  Sabbath? 


46 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


He  then  iread  from  the  revelation  given  in  Section  59  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  the  words  of  the  Lord  that  I  have  already 
recited  and  proceeded  to  remark  : 

All  these  blessings  are  promised  to  those  who  keep  the  commandments, 
among  which  is  the  important  one,  to  observe  properly  the  Sabbath  day. 
The  Lord  is  not  pleased  with  people  who  know  these  things  and  do  them  not. 

He  went  on  to  say : 

Men  are  not  resting  from  their  labors  when  they  plow,  and  plant 
and  haul  and  dig.  They  are  not  resting  when  they  linger  around  the 
home  all  day  on  Sunday,  doing  odd  jobs  that  they  have  been  too  busy  to 
do  on  other  days. 

Men  are  not  showing  zeal  and  ardor  in  their  religious  faith  and  duty 
when  they  bustle  off  early  Sunday  morning  in  automobiles  to  the  canyons, 
the  resorts  or  places  of  amusement  with  their  wives  and  children.  Not 
in  seeking  pleasure  and  recreation  do  they  offer  their  time  and  atten- 
tion in  the  worship  of  the  Lord;  nor  can  they  thus  rejoice  in  the  spirit 
of  forgiveness  and  worship  that  comes  with  partaking  of  the  holy  sac- 
rament. 

People  are  not  keeping  holy  the  Sabbath  day,  when  they  spend  the  day 
loafing  around  the  village  ice  cream  stand  or  restaurant,  playing  games 
or  in  riding,  fishing,  shooting,  or  engaged  in  physical  sports,  excursions 
and  outings.  Such  is  not  the  course  that  will  keep  them  unspotted  from  the 
world,  but  rather  one  that  will  deprive  them  of  the  rich  promises  of  the 
Lord,  giving  them  sorrow  instead  of  joy,  and  unrest  and  anxiety  instead  of 
the  peace  that  ccmes  with  works  of  righteousness. 

I  shall  end  my  reading  from  President  Smith  with  these  words : 

Let  us  play  and  take  recreation  to  our  hearts'  content  during  other 
days,  but  on  the  Sabbath  let  us  rest,  worship,  go  to  the  house  of  prayer, 
partake  of  the  sacrament,  eat  our  food  with  singleness  of  heart,  and  pay 
our  devotions  to  God,  that  the  fulness  of  the  earth  may  be  ours,  and  that 
we  may  have  peace  in  this  world  and  eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come. 
(Gospel  Doctrine  pages  304-309.) 


And  now  I  give  you  a  statement  of  the  views  of  President 
Grant's  administration  relative  to  Sabbath  observance.  A  few  years 
ago  the  First  Presidency  published  an  editorial  on  this  topic  in  the 
Deseret  News.  It  was  entitled  "Sunday  and  The  Home"  and  is 
as  follows : 

The  Lord's  day  is  a  holy  day — not  a  holiday.  It  has  been  set  apart 
as  a  day  of  rest  and  worship.  A  sacred  Sabbath  begets  reverence  for 
God.  It  is  not  pleasing  in  His  sight  that  the  day  be  given  over  to  pleas- 
ure seeking  in  places  of  amusement  or  elsewhere. 

Sunday  Schools  and  meetings  have  been  so  arranged  as  to  meet  the 
convenience  of  the  people  and  leave  a  considerable  portion  of  the  Sabbath 
day  without  Church  appointments.  We  earnestly  appeal  to  the  people 
to  keep  their  meeting  appointments  faithfully  and  to  utilize  that  portion,  of 
Sunday  not  appointed  for  meetings  in  promoting  family  association  in  the 
home,  with  the  purpose  of  stimulating  and  establishing  greater  home 
fealty,  a  closer  companionship  among  parents  and  children,  and  more 
intimate  relations  among  all  kindred. 


THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY'S  APPEAL 


ELDER  JOSEPH  F.  MERRILL 


47 


We  believe  that  it  is  unnecessary  for  families  to  go  beyond  their 
own  homes  or  those  of  their  kindred  for  the  relaxation  and  association 
which  are  proper  for  the  Sabbath  day,  and  we  therefore  discourage 
more  traveling  than  is  necessary  for  this  purpose  and  attendance  upon 
appointed  meetings. 

Let  all  unnecessary  labor  be  suspended  and  let  no  encouragement  be 
given  by  the  attendance  of  members  of  the  Church  at  places  of  amuse- 
ment and  recreation  on  the  Sabbath  day.  If  Sunday  is  spent  in  our  meet- 
ings and  in  our  homes  great  blessings  will  come  to  our  families  and 
communities. 

HEBER  J.  GRANT, 
ANTHONY  W.  IVINS, 
CHARLES  W.  NIBLEY, 
September  1,  1928.  First  Presidency. 

SABBATH   OBSERVANCE  A  BLESSING 

Thus,  if  we  please  the  Lord,  among  other  things  we  must  do  is 
to  keep  holy  the  Sabbath  day.  And  the  way  to  do  this  has  not  es- 
sentially changed  from  the  days  of  Moses  and  ancient  Israel  down 
through  the  ages  to  the  present  moment. 

But  sad  as  it  is  to  see,  the  modern  Christian  world  has  almost 
forgotten  the  sanctity  of  the  Sabbath.  With  the  vast  majority  the 
day  has  ceased  to  be  holy.  Instead  it  is  a  holiday,  a  day  of  amuse- 
ments and  pleasure-seeking,  of  all  kinds  of  activities  foreign  to 
worship  and  holiness. 

I  speak  of  these  things  because  some  of  our  own  people  are 
becoming  worldly  minded  with  respect  to  the  Sabbath.  This  is 
certainly  displeasing  to  the  Lord  who  will  certainly  withhold  bless- 
ings otherwise  obtainable. 

We  read  in  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  these  words : 

"There  is  a  law,  irrevocably  decreed  in  heaven  before  the  founda- 
tions of  this  world,  upon  which  all  blessings  are  predicated.  And  when 
we  obtain  any  blessing  from  God,  it  is  by  obedience  to  that  law  upon 
which  it  is  predicated."  (Doc.  and  Cov.  130:20-21.) 

This  is  a  law  of  the  universe,  governing  things  material,  as  all 
scientists  know.  Through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  we  learn  that 
it  also  applies  to  things  spiritual. 

The  blessings  divinely  promised  for  keeping  holy  the  Lord's 
Sabbath  are  invaluable,  as  the  scriptures  indicate.  Hence  let  no 
Latter-day  Saint  sacrifice  these  blessings  by  going  fishing,  deer  hunt- 
ing, golfing,  amusement  seeking,  joy  riding,  to  sports,  movies  and 
games,  or  engaging  in  other  Sabbath-breaking  activities. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  show  our  confidence  in  the  Lord  and 
in  the  divinity  of  this  Church  by  abstaining  from  participation  in 
the  sinful  practices  of  Babylon,  so  common  on  every  hand.  In  any 
case,  as  surely  as  the  night  follows  the  day  we  shall  finally  reap 
as  we  have  sown.  The  Lord  help  us  to  sow  wisely  and  well  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Christ  our  Lord,  Amen. 


48 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Fitst  Day 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 

Former  President  of  the  Swiss  Mission 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  sense  keenly  the  responsibility  resting 
upon  me  at  this  time.  I  confess  I  am  a  little  frightened  because  of 
that  responsibility.  I  pray  humbly  that  I  may  be  directed  by  the 
Spirit  of  God  in  what  I  say.  I  remember  just  before  my  farewell 
party,  when  I  was  leaving  for  my  first  mission,  I  was  very  much 
worried  as  to  what  I  should  say,  and  I  thought — "how  thankful  and 
happy  I  will  be  after  this  mission  is  over,  so  that  I  will  not  be  so 
frightened  and  worry  so  much  when  I  am  called  upon  to  speak.'1' 
That  was  forty  years  ago,  I  am  now  returning  from  my  third  mission, 
and  I  confess  I  am  just  as  frightened,  and  I  have  worried  as  much, 
or  more,  I  believe,  than  I  did  then. 

I  remember  also  a  few  lines  of  poetry  that  were  written  on  the 
fly-leaf  of  a  little  book  that  was  given  to  me  at  that  time,  a  book  of 
views  of  beautiful  Ogden  Canyon ;  I  appreciated  them  so  much  that 
I  memorized  them.  I  appreciate  them  even  more  today,  after  spend- 
ing about  nine  years  in  the  mission  field  in  Europe,  than  I  did  then. 
They  are  as  follows  : 

There  is  a  land  of  every  land  the  pride,  beloved  of  Heaven 

o'er  all  the  earth  beside. 
There  is  a  spot  of  earth  supremely  blest, 

A  dearer,  sweeter  spot  than  all  the  rest. 

Where  is  that  land,  that  spot  of  earth  to  find? 

Art  thou  a  man,  a  patriot?  Look  around 
And  O  thou  shalt  find,  where'er  thy  footsteps  roam, 

That  land,  thy  country,  and  that  spot  thy  home. 

I  am  more  grateful  today  than  ever  before  for  my  country  and 
for  my  home.  I  appreciate  and  love  them  more.  I  love  and  appreci- 
ate my  wife  and  children,  my  parentage,  my  brothers  and  sisters  and 
friends,  more  than  ever  before.  We  are  glad  to  be  home  again.  Of 
course,  we  have  enjoyed  our  mission.  We  have  enjoyed  our  asso- 
ciation with  your  sons,  the  finest  missionaries  in  the  world.  We 
wish  to  thank  you  parents  for  sending  such  sons  into  the  mission 
field.  It  has  been  a  great  inspiration  to  us  to  associate  with  such 
choice  young  men.  Some  of  them  are  sons  of  missionaries  with 
whom  we  labored  when  presiding  over  the  Swiss-German  Mission 
before. 

And  by  the  way,  tomorrow,  Saturday,  the  6th  of  April,  will  bp 
just  twenty-eight  years  since  I  reported  my  return  from  presiding 
over  the  Swiss  and  German  Mission ;  at  that  time,  as  I  recall,  Presi- 
dent Joseph  F.  Smith  presided.  The  music  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  choir,  conducted  by  Professor  Lund. 
Apostle  Hyrum  Smith  was  the  first  speaker.  Many  changes  have 
taken  place  since  that  time.  A  number  of  changes  have  taken  place 
since  we  left  a  little  over  thirty  months  ago.  We  miss  some  very 
dear  faces  here  on  the  stand. 


ELDER  THOMAS  E.  McKAY 


49 


It  has  been  a  wonderful  experience,  brothers  and  sisters,  to  be 
in  the  mission  field  for  the  third  time.  The  Lord  said,  through  «the 
Savior : 

If  ye  do  the  work  ye  shall  know.  My  doctrine  is  not  mine,  but 
His  that  sent  me.  If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall  know  of  the 
doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself. 

I  have  seen  the  fulfilment  of  that  promise.  People  that  I  met 
on  my  first  mission,  forty  years  ago,  have  sons  now  in  the  mission 
field,  or  they  have  been.  Babies  that  I  blessed  on  that  first  mission 
are  now  leaders,  one  of  them  presiding  over  the  West  German  Mis- 
sion. Many  of  the  parents,  who  were  Sunday  School  children  at 
that  time,  have  had  sons  in  the  mission  field.  All  of  the  missionaries 
in  the  Swiss  Mission,  except  two,  have  been  born  since  that  mission 
twenty-eight  years  ago.  The  large  majority  of  these  missionaries 
are  sons  of  either  parents  or  grandparents  born  in  Switzerland,  and 
I  want  to  tell  you  parents  that  they  are  a  credit  to  you  and  a  credit 
to  the  Church,  and  their  strong  testimonies,  as  well  as  those  of  their 
parents,  are  a  practical  demonstration  of  the  promise,  "if  ye  will  do 
the  work,  ye  shall  know." 

The  Swiss  and  German  Mission  twenty-eight  years  ago  com- 
prised all  of  Germany,  Austria,  Hungary,  Switzerland  and  France. 
Today  there  are  five  Missions  in  these  countries.  They  are  doing 
well.  Of  course,  they  are  handicapped  because  of  the  evacuation  of 
all  our  missionaries  and  Mission  presidents,  but  I  am  pleased  to 
report  that  the  local  people  are  carrying  on.  Quite  a  number  of 
those  people  who  are  now  in  charge  of  the  work  have  been  born  in 
the  Church;  they  understand  the  Gospel  and  are  well  qualified  to 
carry  on  ;  they  have  faith  ;  they  are  not  discouraged  because,  as  they 
say,  they  have  the  Gospel. 

Some  of  our  Branches  have  had  to  be  closed,  but  in  the  main 
they  are  all  functioning.  Two  Branches  which  we  have  had  to  close 
— very  fine  Branches  too,  one  of  which  I  think  had  the  best  record 
in  tithe-paying  in  the  Church — were  located  in  Strassbourg  and 
Muehlhausen,  France.  These  cities  were  evacuated  when  war  was 
declared.  The  people,  our  members  among  them,  had  to  leave  over 
night,  with  only  a  bundle  of  clothing  to  take  with  them.  For  weeks 
we  didn't  know  just  where  they  were.  Finally  we  were  able  to  get 
some  letters  through,  and  they  were  located.  As  soon  as  arrange- 
ments could  be  made  with  the  French  and  Swiss  authorities  for  per- 
mission to  cross  the  border,  one  of  our  brethren  was  sent  to  visit 
them,  taking  a  considerable  sum  of  money  with  him  to  help  make 
them  as  comfortable  as  possible. 

We  had  learned,  just  for  an  example,  that  thirty-five  thousand 
people  were  being  taken  care  of  in  a  city  of  thirty  thousand  popula- 
tion. You  can  imagine  what  that  would  mean,  with  the  limited 
accommodations.  Some  members,  we  learned,  -  were  sleeping  in 
bath-rooms ;  others  sleeping  in  the  halls.  So  we  sent  considerable 
money  with  this  good  brother,  a  local  brother,  to  buy  bed  springs, 


50  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

bedding,  curtains,  and  other  things.  By  sending-  some  telegrams, 
and  telephoning,  he  succeeded  in  getting  most  of  them  together. 
They  held  a  testimony  meeting. 

When  this  brother  came  back  he  said :  "President  McKay,  you 
sent  me  there  to  give  them  spiritual  uplift  and  to  encourage  them,  but  I 
received  much  more  help  spiritually  from  them  than  I  was  able  to 
give  them."  Those  people,  although  they  didn't  know  whether  they 
would  ever  see  an  Elder  again,  an  authority  of  the  Church,  had  put 
away  their  tithing  as  usual.  They  had  received  work — some  of  them 
— and  they  had  been  blessed.  This  local  brother  brought  back  nearly 
as  much  money  as  we  had  sent  to  help  them.  They  said :  "You 
express  our  thankfulness  to  President  McKay  for  the  help  that  he 
has  sent  us,  and  tell  him  that  we  are  all  right,  and  are  not  discour- 
aged, because  we  have  the  Gospel."  That  is  the  faith  of  those  peo- 
ple over  there,  brothers  and  sisters.  They  are  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  the  Lord  and  are  doing  the  will  of  the  Father. 

It  is  difficult  to  keep  all  the  Branches  organized.  We  get  them 
organized,  then  our  brethren  are  taken  into  the  army.  About  six 
hundred  of  our  brethren  are  in  the  army  in  Germany.  Seven  of  them 
have  lost  their  lives — not  in  battle,  however.  They  are  praying  that 
they  will  not  have  to  fight.  They  are  peace-loving,  those  members. 
They  have  no  hate  in  their  hearts,  but  a  love  for  all  mankind,  the 
love  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  have  committees  appointed, 
so  that  as  soon  as  a  vacancy  occurs,  another  man  is  called  to  take 
his  place.  We  have  called  sisters  on  missions,  to  take  charge  of  the 
office  work,  and  they  are  getting  along  very  nicely.  They  are  keep- 
ing busy  and  are  trying  to  do  the  will  of  the  Father. 

They  know,  as  I  know,  that  God  lives;  that  He  is  our  Father; 
that  we  are  all  His  children;  that  He  loves  us,  and  because  He  loves 
us  He  has  given  us  the  Gospel.  Every  commandment  He  has  given 
is  for  our  progress  and  happiness  in  this  life,  as  well  as  our  life  here- 
after. Our  members  know  this  as  I  know  it,  and  they  are  keeping 
the  commandments.  They  keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  are  paying 
their  tithing,  their  Fast  offerings,  and  they  are  being  blessed  for  it. 

I  was  delighted  to  hear  this  morning  in  the  report — I  don't  know 
whether  you  noticed  it  or  not,  but  I  did — that  the  Swiss  Mission 
is  leading  in  Fast  offerings,  per  capita ;  that  is,  outside  of  the  smaller 
Missions. 

They  know,  too,  as  I  know,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  He  is 
our  head,  that  this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  They  know,  too, 
as  I  know,  that  Joseph  Smith  was  and  is  a  prophet,  and  that  his  suc- 
cessors are  prophets  of  the  Lord,  including  our  beloved  President 
Heber  J.  Grant.  Oh,  how  we  do  love  and  appreciate  President  Grant. 
It  is  remarkable ;  it  is  a  miracle  what  he  has  accomplished  in  estab- 
lishing just  this  one  point  I  will  mention — better  public  relations  be- 
tween the  Church  and  the  rest  of  the  world. 

We  have  had  occasion  to  visi*  our  Consuls  and  Consul  Generals, 
representing  the  United  States,  qviite  often  we  made  it  a  point  to  call 


ELDER  WALLACE  F.  TORONTO 


51 


on  them  and  get  acquainted  as  soon  as  we  entered  a  city.  I  remem- 
ber calling  on  the  Consul  General  in  Zurich :  I  gave  him  my  card, 
the  Temple  card.  He  looked  at  it  and  said :  "It  is  a  beautiful  card.'" 
I  said :  "You  may  keep  it,  if  you  wish  to."  He  said :  "Thank  you, 
but  I  have  something  I  prize  a  great  deal  more  than  this  Temple 
card."  He  reached  in  his  desk  and  brought  out  a  book  presented 
to  him  by  President  Grant,  autographed  by  President  Grant.  That 
was  one  of  his  prizes,  and  he  took  a  great  deal  of  pride  in  showing  it 
to  me. 

God  bless  President  Grant.  The  people  there  love  him.  We 
all  love  him.  He  is  our  leader,  chosen  of  the  Lord.  God  bless  these 
brethren  on  the  stand.  President  Clark  also  is  known  by  many  of 
these  representatives  of  our  Government.  They  have  been  in  very 
deed  friends  to  us  during  our  rather  exciting  and  worrying  expe- 
riences because  of  war  conditions.  They  have  arranged  for  us  to 
telephone,  when  it  was  impossible  for  private  people  to  telephone. 
We  appreciate  them.  I  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  here  pub- 
licly for  what  they  have  done. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  grateful,  more  grateful  than  I  can  ex- 
press, for  the  testimony  I  have  that  this  is  the  Church  of  God.  May 
He  help  us  always  to  do  His  will,  and  thereby  retain  this  testimony 
that  we  have,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

ELDER  WALLACE  F.  TORONTO 

Former  President  of  the  C  zecho-Slovakian  Mission 

Brethren  and  sisters :  You  cannot  know  the  thrill  which  goes 
through  my  being  today  in  beholding  again,  for  the  first  time  in  five 
years,  this  glorious  sight,  a  Conference  of  the  members  of  the  Church. 
I  pray  for  the  inspiration  of  the  Lord  in  that  which  I  might  say 
today,  for  I  feel  that  my  responsibility  is  great,  and  I  am  keenly 
aware  that  those  things  should  be  emphasized  which  will  be  of  profit 
and  benefit  to  this  congregation. 

I  bring  you  the  greetings,  brethren  and  sisters,  of  a  small  band  of 
people,  Czecho-Slovaks,  who  know  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  indeed  the  most  priceless  possession  which  they  have  ever  had. 
They  are  living  in  a  war-torn  country  which  has  been  ravaged, 
robbed  and  plundered.  They  are  existing  under  the  most  adverse  of 
conditions,  but  none-the-less  they  live  the  Gospel  to  such  an  extent 
as  would  put  many  of  us  to  shame.  Perhaps  we  need  adversity,  in 
order  to  fully  appreciate  the  commandments  and  the  blessings  com- 
ing from  the  Gospel  which  we  have. 

I  want  to  say  a  word,  too,  about  the  splendid  missionaries  which 
you  have  sent  us  during  the  past  three  and  a  half  years.  We  have 
had  the  finest  men  upon  the  face  of  the  earth,  to  carry  these  glad 
tidings  to  thousands  upon  thousands  of  people  residing  in  that  nation. 
The  work  has  not  been  easy.    Programs  have  been  projected  and 


52  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

plans  have  been  brought  into  being,  only  to  meet  with  disappoint- 
ment because  of  incidents  and  situations  beyond  the  power  of  men 
to  control. 

These  Elders  have  evacuated  twice.  They  have  come  back  more 
determined  than  ever  to  see  that  the  Gospel  should  not  perish  in 
Czecho-Slovakia.  They  have  done  a  mighty  work.  I  bear  testimony 
to  you  today,  brothers  and  sisters,  that  these  young  men  whom  you 
have  sent  out  into  the  field  abroad,  have  been  willing  to  go  the  limit 
in  bringing-  the  Gospel  of  peace,  joy  and  happiness  to  a  war-torn 
Europe.  My  heart  goes  out  in  praise  and  gratitude  to  my  Heavenly 
Father  for  the  opportunities  which  these  young  men  have  had,  as 
well  as  for  the  opportunities  which  they,  through  their  work,  have 
been  able  to  afford  those  much  less  fortunate  than  you  and  I. 

Members  of  the  Church  in  Central  Europe  have  learned  to  know 
the  deep  meaning  of  the  Gospel.  They  have  learned  to  know 
that  its  core  and  essence  is  to  be  found  in  the  admonition  of  Jesus : 
"Love  thy  neighbor  even  as  thyself." 

A  short  time  after  almost  two  million  German  troops  had 
marched  across  the  borders  of  Czecho-Slovakia — during  that  time  of 
tension  and  terror,  which  inevitably  resulted — a  young  German  of- 
ficer, a  fine,  straight,  clean-looking  fellow,  walked  through  the  door 
of  our  meeting  hall  in  Prague.  We  thought :  Certainly,  this  is  the 
end  for  us.  The  Secret  Police  have  probably  sent  some  one  here 
to  close  the  Mission.  Coming  up  he  said :  "My  name  is  Brother  R. 
(for  obvious  reasons  it  is  felt  unwise  to  give  his  name.)  I  am  an 
officer  in  the  German  Army.  As  soon  as  I  had  completed  my  official 
duties  here  in  Prague,  the  first  thing  I  set  out  to  do  was  to  find  this 
Branch  of  the  Church  in  Czecho-Slovakia."  With  your  permission, 
I  would  like  to  say  just  a  word  to  this  congregation.  I  replied: 
"Certainly,  Brother  R.,  we  shall  be  happy  to  hear  from  you." 

He  stood  up,  and  in  a  language  which  most  of  the  pepple  of 
Czecho-Slovakia  detested,  German,  he  had  this  to  say  to  the  members 
of  the  Church  and  to  the  friends  who  were  present : 

Brothers  and  sisters,  I  come  here  not  on  an  appointment  of  my 
own  choosing.  I  come  here  as  a  servant  of  my  government.  I  know 
we  have  brought  you  considerable  distress  and  dismay.  We  have 
caused  already  much  suffering.  Nevertheless,  you  and  I  have  some- 
thing in  common,  something  which  oversteps  the  boundaries  of  race, 
language,  and  color.  You  and  I  have  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Despite  the  fact  that  I  speak  German  and  you  Czech,  yet  because  of 
the  Gospel  we  still  speak  in  common  terms.  The  time  is  coming  when 
we  shall  know  this  better  than  ever  before. 

I  wish  I  had  time  to  tell  you  all  he  said.  Tears  streamed  down 
the  faces  of  those  Czecho-Slovakian  people.  As  he  walked  down 
the  aisle  they  stood  up  and  put  their  arms  around  him  and  wept  upon 
his  shoulder.  Every  available  Sunday — he  believed  in  keeping  the 
Sabbath — he  was  at  the  Branch  hall,  doing  his  best  to  make  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ  a  living  thing  among  a  subjugated  people. 

That  is  what  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  does  for  a  man.  When 


ELDER  WALLACE  F.  TORONTO 


53 


it  touches  him  it  changes  him,  and  he  knows,  as  President  Hugh 
B.  Brown  has  already  said,  that  all  mankind  come  of  common  blood, 
and  that  we  are  brothers  and  sisters  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
all  having  but  one  Father.  These  are  momentous  things,  brothers 
and  sisters.  They  are  truths  which  cannot  be  equalled  any  place 
in  the  world,  outside  the  plan  of  the  Gospel. 

We  regretted  having  to  leave  our  members  in  Czecho-Slovakia. 
Had  we  been  able  to  leave  them  in  the  hands  of  a  successor,  we 
should  have  felt  good  about  coming  home,  but  conditions  would  not 
permit  that.  Nevertheless  it  is  my  testimony  to  you  that  some 
thirty  thousand  members  of  the.  Church  who  have  been  left  in  Eu- 
rope, who  are  now  carrying  on  for  themselves — despite  the  fact  that 
they  must  suffer,  and  perhaps  have  want  of  the  necessities  of  life — 
are  being  protected  by  the  hand  of  the  Lord. 

If  I  may  have  just  a  moment  or  two  I  should  like  to  relate  a 
story,  one  of  several  within  our  experience,  which  to  me  is  an  evi- 
dence of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  of  the 
protecting  power  and  goodness  of  God. 

A  young  Ukrainian,  Tarnawskyj  by  name,  who  had  been  study- 
ing for  the  ministry  in  the  Greek  Catholic  Church,  was  on  his  way 
from  Warsaw,  Poland,  to  New  York  City,  there  to  attend  a  graduate 
school  for  the  ministry  of  that  church.  He  came  by  the  way  of  the 
city  of  Prague.  As  he  was  going  down  the  street  he  saw  the  sign, 
"Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.1"  He  noticed  that  we 
were  holding  a  meeting  at  that  time.  He  thought  to  himself :  "I 
have  learned  of  those  people  in  my  studies.  I  am  curious.  I  think 
I  will  go  in  and  see  what  they  have  to  say." 

He  entered,  dressed  in  his  black  robe  and  white  collar,  and  sat 
in  the  back.  He  was  a  young  man  about  twenty-eight  or  thirty 
years  of  age.  Two  of  our  missionaries  stood  up  and  explained  some 
of  the  principles  of  the  Gospel.  They  bore  their  testimonies.  Since 
he  spoke  Ukrainian,  which  is  kindred  to  Czech,  he  understood  them. 
After  the  meeting  he  came  up  and  asked :  "When  do  you  hold  the 
rest  of  your  services?"  We  enumerated  the  meetings  of  the  week 
and  he  came  to  all  of  them,  even  including  the  Relief  Society.  In 
a  few  weeks  he  made  this  request :  "Brother  Toronto,  I  would  like 
to  be  baptized  into  this  Church." 

"Now,  Brother  Tarnawskyj,  you  know  you  can't  make  your 
living  in  this  Church.  Our  missionaries  sustain  themselves,  either 
from  their  own  sayings  or  through  the  sustenance  which  their  folks 
send  them." 

"Oh,  Brother  Toronto,"  he  replied,  "I  know  all  about  that.  Your 
missionaries  have  been  teaching  me  the  Gospel.'"  Continuing,  he 
said :  "I  have  found  the  most  priceless  thing  in  all  the  world.  I  want 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  have  been  seeking  it  for  years  in  the 
universities  and  the  divinity  schools  of  many  lands,  and  I  have  never 
found  anything  that  can  equal  this." 

I  said  :  "All  right.  As  soon  as  we  instruct  you  a  little  more  fully 


54  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

in  the  .Gospel  we  shall  be  happy  to  have  you  as  a  member  of  the 
Church."  He  was  subsequently  baptized.  Upon  accepting  baptism 
a  great  characteristic  of  truth  took  hold  of  him,  that  of  wanting  to  tell 
somebody  else  about  it.  Of  course,  those  he  thought  of  first  were 
his  loved  ones  back  in  Poland.  He  wrote  them  a  long  letter,  in  which 
he  declared :  "I  have  found  the  greatest  thing  in  life.  I  want  to  tell 
you  something  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  you,  too,  might 
enjoy  the  blessings  which  flow  from  it." 

I  met  him  a  few  days  later.  He  wore  a  long  face  and  was  very 
dejected.  "What  on  earth  has  happened  to  you,  Brother  Tarnawsyj  ?" 
"I  just  received  a  letter  from  my  folks  in  Poland.  They  tell  me  here : 
'Dear  Son  and  Brother:  If  you  do  not  immediately  renounce  this 
thing  you  call  Mormonism  we  shall  cease  to  send  you  one  penny 
of  support,  which  you  know  is  your  only  means  of  livelihood;  and 
furthermore,  we  shall  disown  you  as  a  son  and  a  brother !'  " 

"What  is  your  answer,  Brother  Tarnawskyj  ?  You  are  at  the 
cross-roads.  You  have  a  grave  decision  to  make." 

"Oh,  Brother  Toronto,  you  know  what  my  answer  is :  'Dear 
loved  ones,  I  cannot  renounce  the  thing  I  hold  dearest  in  life,  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  pray  God  that  you,  too,  at  some  future 
time,  through  my  efforts  or  the  efforts  of  others,  might  also  come  into 
this  Church.' " 

From  that  day  until  this,  so  far  as  I  know,  he  has  not  received 
one  penny  or  one  word  from  his  people.  He  found  himself  in  Czecho- 
slovakia, a  foreigner,  unable  to  secure  employment. 

During  these  troublesome  times  the  subtle  political  forces  in 
Central  Europe  had  operated  to  break  down  the  Czecho-Slovakian 
Republic,  so  that  Slovakia  gained  its  freedom,  as  well  as  the  little 
province  of  Ruthenia  or  Sub-Carpathian  Russia,  far  to  the  east, 
hardly  larger  than  the  County  of  Salt  Lake.  Brother  Tarnawskyj 
finally  proposed :  "Brother  Toronto,  many  of  my  countrymen  are 
out  there  in  Ruthenia,  a  large  group  of  Ukrainians  among  whom  I 
could  work.  Since  I  am  an  educated  man,  I  think  I  could  get  a  posi- 
tion as  an  Inspector  in  the  Ministry  of  Education.  Can  you  help 
me  get  there?  I  want  to  become  a  self-sustaining  citizen."  "All 
right.  We  will  help  you  get  to  Ruthenia,  if  you  think  you  can  suc- 
ceed." 

Upon  his  arrival  in  this  new  autonomous  state,  he  filed  his  appli- 
cation for  a  position  in  the  ministry.  It  went  through  the  various 
hands  and  much  red  tape  through  which  such  things  have  to  pass, 
and  finally  reached  the  Minister  himself.  Up  to  this  point  all  went 
well.  When  it  reached  the  Minister  there  was  great  delay.  Finally 
our  brother  wrote  me  a  letter  and  said :  "Brother  Toronto,  I  don't 
know  what  the  trouble  down  here  is.  I  am  qualified  for  the  position, 
and  I  have  pulled  every  string  I  know.  And  I  have  prayed.  The 
Lord  God  knows  I  am  hungry.  He  knows  I  need  a  place  to  rest 
my  head.  I  have  tried  to  live  the  Gospel  since  I  joined  the  Church. 
From  the  earnings  on  little  jobs  I  have  secured  here  and  there  I 


ELDER  WALLACE  F.  TORONTO 


55 


have  set  aside  my  tithing,  and  as  soo-.i  as  the  mails  go  through  I  will 
send  it  on  to  you.  Why,  oh  why  does  the  Lord  persecute  me  like 
this?'"'  But  in  conclusion  he  added:  (I  wish  I  had  the  letter  here  to 
read  to  you :)   "Perhaps  it  is  all  for  the  best." 

A  card  came  a  few  days  later :  "I  am  going  to  take  a  job  out  in 
the  little  town  of  Perecyn  as  a  humble  school  teacher,  where  I  can 
make  enough  to  at  least  buy  me  a  few  crusts  of  bread.'" 

He  was  employed  there  for  three  days,  when  that  tiny  state  of 
Central  Europe,  Sub-Carpathian  Russia,  was  drenched  in  blood  by 
the  Hungarian  hordes  which  swept  over  it.  Men,  women  and  chil- 
dren by  the  hundreds  were  left  dying  in  the  streets.  He  and  nine 
of  his  Ukrainian  companions  were  routed  out  of  bed  at  five  o'clock 
one  morning  and  thrown  into  prison.  After  twenty-four  hours  of 
intense  suffering  they  were  called  before  a  military  court  consisting 
of  one  man  in  the  uniform  of  a  Hungarian  officer.  He  had  the  sole 
right  to  say,  "You  live,"  or  "You  die."  The  ten  men  came  before 
him.  They  were  asked  two  questions :  "How  long  have  you  been 
in  this  country?"  and  "What  is  your  religious  affiliation?" 

Our  brother  led  the  others.  To  the  first  question  he  replied  that 
he  had  been  there  so  and  so  many  weeks.  "What  is  your  religious 
affiliation?" 

"I  am  a  member  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Sometimes  they  call  us  'Mormons.'  " 

"Mormons  ?  Mormons  ?  I  have  heard  of  you  folks.  I  have  read 
of  you  in  the  newspapers  of  Budapest.  I  hear  your  people  have  done 
some  good  in  this  world."  A  tense  moment  of  hesitation  and  then, 
"You  go  free." 

His  nine  companions  came  up  after  him.  They  were  asked  the 
identical  questions.  Being  no  more  guilty  than  he  himself,  they  were 
nevertheless  condemned  to  death,  and  shot  down  in  cold  blood  before 
the  sun  went  down  that  day. 

This  brother  finally  got  out  of  the  country,  and  wrote  me  another 
letter.  "Brother  Toronto,"  he  said,  "I  know  the  Lord  does  move 
in  a  mysterious  way  His  wonders  to  perform.  The  Gospel  is  the 
most  priceless  thing  I  have  in  the  world.  I  know  the  Lord  has  pre- 
served my  life,  that  I  may  be  a  beacon  light  to  my  fellow  men.  He 
has  not  only  preserved  my  life,  in  the  way  I  have  described  to  you, 
but  He  has  also  protected  me,  for  had  I  received  the  position  of  In- 
spector in  the  Ministry  of  Education  I  today  would  have  been  sit- 
ting in  the  concentration  camps  of  Hungary,  subjected  to  some  of 
the  most  terrible  torture  known  to  humankind.  I  owe  all  I  have  to 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ." 

Our  faithful  members  will  be  protected,  brothers  and  sisters. 
Were  this  the  only  incident  I  might  be  skeptical  in  thinking  that  it 
was  perhaps  a  chance  occurrence.  But  we  have  seen  many  cases 
of  providential  care  and  protection.  Some  of  the  Jewish  members  of 
our  Church,  despite  the  anti-Semitic  programs,  have  been  preserved, 


56  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Friday,  April  5  First  Day 

and  we  have  seen  it.  The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  means  everything 
to  them."  Does  it  mean  everything  to  you? 

Go  home  tonight.  Get  down  on  your  knees.  Thank  the  Lord 
your  God  that  you  live  in  a  "land  choice  above  all  others,"  in  this 
land  of  freedom  and  happiness.  And  thank  the  Lord  again  that  you 
have  been  privileged  to  accept  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Cove- 
nant anew  that  you  will  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  as 
never  before. 

I  know  that  God  lives  and  it  has  been  a  testimony  to  me  to  live 
among  these  people  who  placed  their  trust  in  Him.  I  know  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  prophet  of  the  Lord,  even  as  they  know  it.  I 
give  you  this  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  should  like  to  thank  the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  for 
the  wonderful  music  they  have  given  us  today.  I  think  it  may  be 
truthfully  said  that  there  is  no  college  in  the  United  States,  of  any 
size,  that  has  better  music  than  the  Brigham  Young  University. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus  sang,  as  the  closing 
number,  "Oft  in  Danger,  Oft  in  Woe,  Onward  Christian,  Onward 
Go,"  (Harry  R.  Shelly). 

Elder  Horace  Raymond  Pond,  President  of  the  Benson  Stake, 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock  Saturday  morning, 
April  6th. 

SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  third  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Saturday  morn- 
ing, April  6,  at  10  o'clock,  with  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
presiding. 

The  music  for  this  meeting  was  furnished  by  the  Ricks  College 
Choir,  under  the  direction  of  John  M.  Anderson,  Alexander  Schrein- 
er  was  at  the  organ. 

President  Clark  announced  that  the  congregation  and  the  Ricks 
College  Choir  would  sing,  as  the  opening  selection,  "Glory  to  God 
on  High." 

After  the  singing  of  this  hymn,  Elder  Charles  S.  Hansen,  President 
of  the  Gunnison  Stake,  offered  the  opening  prayer. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "God  So  Loved  The 
World,"  (Stainer). 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 


57 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAWSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  wonderfully  impressed  by  the  at- 
tendance at  the  Conference  this  morning.  The  house  is  filled.  Every 
seat,  so  far  as  I  can  see,  is  taken.  We  had  a  splendid  day  yesterday. 
There  was  only  one  regret,  and  that  was  that  President  Grant  could 
not  be  with  us.  He  has  wisely  decided  to  rest  a  few  weeks  in  Cali- 
fornia since  coming  out  of  the  hospital.  We  are  all  very  happy  in- 
deed, I  am  sure,  that  we  have  President  McKay  with  us  and 
President  Clark  to  direct  the  proceedings  of  this  great  Conference. 

The  meeting  of  the  Church  Welfare  plan  held  this  morning  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  was  indeed  most  thrilling.  The  spirit  of  that 
work  is  taking  hold  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  That  it  will  be  suc- 
cessful I  think  no  one  could  be  in  doubt. 

And  now  the  Conference  is  in  progress  again.  I  want  to  com- 
mend these  wonderful  singers,  the  choir  from  Idaho,  and  the  work 
that  they  are  doing. 

AN  INSPIRING  HYMN 

I  feel  prompted  this  morning,  brethren  and  sisters,  to  read  a 
few  lines  of  one  of  our  sacred  hymns  taken  from  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Song  Book.  The  title  of  this  song  is  "Count  Your 
Blessings."  This  is  a  very  opportune  time  to  count  our  blessings, 
but  of  course  we  cannot  mention  all  of  them  in  a  short  sermon; 
that  would  be  impossible,  but  we  might  read  the  hymn  and  point  to 
several  important  blessings : 

When  upon  life's  billows  you  are  tempest  tossed, 
When  you  are  discouraged  thinking  all  is  lost, 
Count  your  many  blessings,  name  them  one  by  one, 
And  it  will  surprise  you  what  the  Lord  hath  done. 

Are  you  ever  burdened  with  a  load  of  care? 
Does  the  cross  seem  heavy  you  are  called  to  bear? 
Count  your  many  blessings  ev'ry  doubt  will  fly, 
And  you  will  be  singing  as  the  days  go  by. 

When  you  look  at  others  with  their  lands  and  gold, 
Think  that  Christ  has  promised  you  His  wealth  untold, 
Count  your  many  blessings,  money  cannot  buy, 
Your  reward  in  heaven,  nor  your  home  on  high. 

So,  amid  the  conflict,  whether  great  or  small, 
Do  not  be  discouraged,  God  is  over  all; 
Count  your  many  blessings,  angels  will  attend, 
Help  and  comfort  give  you  to  your  journey's  end. 

A  wonderfully  appropriate  song.  It  is  uplifting  in  spirit ;  it  is 
well  that  we  should  take  time  now  and  then  to  ponder  seriously 
upon  our  blessings. 

WORKS  OF  THE  ANCIENT  PROPHETS 

Truly,  in  the  time  of  the  Prophets  of  old  it  was  a  day  of  inspira- 


58  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  '6  Second  Day 

tion,  revelation  and  miracles.  In  the  days  of  Abraham,  Isaac  and 
Jacob,  and  of  Moses,  Isaiah,  Ezekiel,  Elijah  and  Elisha,  the  prophets, 
surely  that  was  a  day  of  miracles.  Wonderful  works  were  performed 
in  those  early  ages.  If  I  mistake  not,  Amos,  the  Prophet,  spoke  of 
this  matter  and  said  that  the  Lord  doeth  nothing  save  He  first  reveal 
it  to  His  servants  the  prophets.  Marvelous  things  happened  in  those 
ancient  times.  The  prophets  wrote  and  spoke  as  they  were  moved 
upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost.  And  he  who  speaks  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  a  revelator. 

As  in  ancient  times  so  it  was  in  the  Meridian  of  Time  when  the 
Son  of  God  was  upon  the  earth.  It  was  a  day  of  inspiration,  revela- 
tion and  miracles,  a  day  when  there  were  Apostles  and  Prophets 
upon  the  earth,  High  Priests,  Seventies  and  Elders  and  the  lesser 
Priesthood.  Great  things  were  accomplished  and  the  work  of  God 
prospered. 

BLESSINGS   OF  THE  LATTER  DAYS 

And  so  now  in  our  day  it  is  much  the  same.  After  eighteen  hun- 
dred years  the  silence  was  broken  and  the  voice  of  inspiration,  revela- 
tion and  miracles  was  heard  upon  the  earth  and  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  rests  down  upon  the  people.  The  initial  step  taken  in  the 
organization  of  the  great  work  of  the  latter  days  was  the  visitation 
of  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son,  to*  the  boy  Joseph 
Smith,  which  was  the  most  memorable  event,  most  remarkable  in 
some  respects,  of  anything  that  has  ever  transpired  upon  this  earth. 
The  Father  and  the  Son  condescended  to  manifest  themselves  in 
person  to  Joseph  Smith.  One  said,  pointing  to  the  other,  "This  is 
my  Beloved  Son,  hear  Him."  The  Son  spoke  in  answer  to  the  boy's 
prayer  to  know  which  of  all  the  churches  he  should  join.  He  was 
told  to  join  none  of  them  for  they  were  lacking  in  divine  authority. 
Prophets  appeared  and  angels  from  heaven  were  sent  down  after 
that  first  great  vision.   They  gave  to  man  divine  authority. 

One  of  these  visitors  from  the  other  world  was  John  the  Baptist 
who  had  lived  upon  the  earth  in  the  time  of  the  Savior.  He  was  now 
a  mighty  angel,  a  messenger  from  on  high,  and  he  came  for  an 
express  purpose.  It  was  not  to  satisfy  the  curiosity  of  Joseph  Smith, 
the  young  man,  for  he  had  now  grown  to  be  a  young  man,  but  he 
came  on  an  important  mission  under  the  direction  of  Peter,  James, 
and  John,  and  conferred  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  or  the  lesser  Priesthood,  as  it  is  sometimes 
called — the  Priesthood  of  Priests,  Teachers,  and  Deacons. 

And  then,  later  on,  Peter,  James,  and  John  came  down  from 
heaven.  They  appeared  as  mighty  angels,  no  doubt,  but  they  had 
their  mission  and  that  was  to  confer  further  authority  upon  these, 
the  servants  of  the  Lord,  and  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  were 
ordained  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Thus  was  divine 
authority  restored  to  the  earth  in  these  latter  days,  and  those  who 
were  exercising  authority  that  was  not  from  heaven  were  under 


PRESIDENT  RUDGER  CLAW  SON 


59 


condemnation  of  the  Lord,  and  especially  when  they  knew  that  they 
were  without  divine  authority. 

And  so,  brethren  and  sisters,  I  testify  that  this  matter  of  divine 
authority  is  of  tremendous  importance,  and  that  the  success  of  this 
work  so  far  has  been  accomplished  under  divine  authority  and 
could  not  have  been  realized  in  any  other  way.  It  is  one  of  the 
foundation  principles  of  the  Gospel. 

THE  WORK  IN  THE  TEMPLES 

And  that  was  not  all.  Let  me  call  your  attention  to  another  su- 
perior blessing,  a  blessing  that  is  always  to  be  found  among  the 
people  of  God,  the  true  worshippers  of  the  meek  and  lowly  Nazarene, 
and  that  is  the  blessing  of  the  Temple  of  the  Lord.  Wherever  the 
people  of  God  are  found,  there  you  will  find  also  a  Temple,  or  House 
of  the  Lord,  where  He  can  come  and  dispense  blessings  to  His 
people,  blessings  that  cannot  be  measured  in  value  by  money,  but 
are  the  free  gift  of  God.  The  blessings  of  the  Temple  are  so  great 
that  we  can  hardly  comprehend  their  importance  and  value.  People 
are  free  to  donate  when  they  go  to  the  Temple  for  these  blessings — 
the  blessings  of  the  endowment,  the  sealing  blessings  at  the  altar. 
Husband  and  wife  may  be  sealed  together  for  time  and  all  eternity. 
I  am  sure  that  none  of  us  can  comprehend  the  extent  and  power  and 
importance  of  these  blessings  that  are  dispensed  from  the  Temple. 
The  rich  are  entitled  to  them,  if  they  are  worthy ;  the  poor  can  have 
them  also  if  they  are  worthy.  Certainly  we  should  count  our  bless- 
ings. We  should  remember  that  every  blessing  we  receive  is  from 
the  Lord. 

MISSIONARY  SERVICE 

Let  me  mention  briefly  the  missionary  work.  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  nothing  like  it  in  all  the 
world.  The  missionaries  of  the  Christian  churches,  so-called,  are 
sent  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the  heathens.  Our  special  duty  at  the 
present  time  is  not  to  carry  the  Gospel  to  the  heathens  but  to  preach 
the  Gospel  and  offer  its  blessings  to  those  who  are  considered  civil- 
ized far  above  the  heathens.  It  is  a  wonderful  movement  wherein 
the  young  men  of  Zion  may  be  called  into  service  and  is  a  part  of 
the  blessings  of  the  Latter-day  Saints.  They  are  set  apart  under 
divine  authority  to  preach  this  Gospel,  to  baptize  and  give  the  Holy 
Ghost.  Young  women  are  also  sent  out  as  missionaries  to  preach 
the  Gospel. 

And  so,  I  think  I  may  safely  say  that  this  is  a  day  of  inspiration, 
of  revelation  and  miracles.  If  all  the  miracles  that  have  been  and 
are  being  performed  by  this  people  were  written  into  a  book  it  would 
be  a  very,  very  large  volume.  Many  who  were  sick  have  been  healed, 
and  many  have  been  delivered  from  accidents  and  trouble  and  anx- 
iety through  our  missionary  cause. 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  6  Second  Day 

That  is  about  as  far  as  I  am  entitled  to  go  this  morning  in  men- 
tioning these  important  matters — the  blessings  of  revelation,  of  in- 
spiration, of  divine  authority,  Temple  work  and  Missionary  work. 
There  is  just  about  enough  there  to  take  our  whole  attention 
throughout  life,  and  yet  there  are  many  other  desirable  and  im- 
portant blessings  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  which  He  will  give  to  His 
faithful  people.  The  Lord  is  willing  to  pour  out  these  blessings 
upon  the  people  just  as  fast  as  the  people  make  themselves  worthy 
to  receive  them. 

THE  SEALED  PORTION  OF  THE  BOOK  OF  MORMON 

I  am  wondering  if  you  will  permit  me  to  say  this  closing  word. 
I  am  wondering  about  the  sealed  portion  of  the  record  appertaining 
to  the  Book  of  Mormon.  When  will  it  come  to  the  people  of  the 
Church  ?  I  am  of  the  opinion  that  if  we  were  perfectly  prepared  and 
followed  carefully  the  revelations  and  instructions  we  have  already 
received  in  the  Church  possibly  that  sealed  portion  could  be  brought 
to  the  people  through  faith  and  good  works. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  pray  God  in  heaven  to  bless  you 
and  help  you  and  help  us  all  to  serve  Him  in  righteousness.  I  hum- 
bly ask  this  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

It  is  a  very  great  inspiration,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  stand 
in  this  position  and  look  into  the  faces  of  so  many  wonderful  people, 
but  it  gives  one  a  great  sense  of  responsibility  to  stand  in  an  im- 
portant position  of  leadership  at  the  head  of  this  wonderful  group 
of  people.   It  is  indeed  a  responsible  position. 

A  DESIRE  TO  BE  HELPFUL 

I  pray  constantly  as  I  look  around  upon  you  and  as  I  minister 
with  the  Seventies  of  the  Church  and  the  Church  at  large,  that  God 
will  inspire  every  word  that  I  utter  and  everything  that  I  do.  My 
one  desire  is  that  in  all  these  things  I  might  please  Him  and  help 
you.  And  if  He  will  inspire  me,  with  your  aid,  on  this  occasion 
to  say  just  one  little  thing  that  may  be  helpful  to  you  I  shall  be 
infinitely  happy.  One  wonders  what  that  may  be,  and  it  is  very 
difficult  at  times  to  make  a  choice  among  the  many  things  that  might 
be  said. 

I  am  happy  for  the  membership  I  have  in  the  Church  and  for  the 
fact  that  God  has  made  it  possible  for  me  to  help  in  this  great  work. 
When  I  was  a  young  man  I  wondered  how  I  would  respond  if  I  were 
asked  to  fill  a  mission,  if  I  were  asked  to  do  this,  or  that,  or  the  other 
responsible  thing  in  the  Church,  and  I  still  wonder  whether  I  am 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IV INS 


61 


going  to  be  able  to  render  the  type  of  service  that  I  should  to  the 
end  of  my  years,  and  only  pray  that  I  may. 

THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  we  are  told  in  four  or  five  sec- 
tions, "the  will  of  the  Lord"  as  expressed  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  to  certain  of  the  men  who  were  interested  in  this  work 
in  its  inception  in  our  dispensation.  Several  members  wanted  to 
know  what  they  might  do  to  their  best  advantage  in  this  work,  and 
the  Lord  spoke  to  each  of  them,  "the  thing  which  will  be  of  the 
most  worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  repentance  unto  this  people." 

I  would  that  I  knew  how  to  do  that  in  a  way  that  it  might  ap- 
peal to  those  who  needed  it  most.  The  great  difficulty  is  that  as  we 
stand  before  you  we  realize  that  we  are  talking  to  faithful  people, 
and  the  message  that  we  would  deliver  perhaps  never  reaches  the 
ears  that  we  would  like  it  to  strike.  That  makes  it  necessary  for  each 
one  of  you  to  constitute  yourself  a  missionary  to  carry  to  your 
friends  the  message  of  this  Conference. 

We  have  men  all  around  us  who  could  well  repent  of  their 
actions.  Repentance  is  a  thing  that  all  of  us  need.  I  am  no  more 
immune  than  anybody  else  from  the  need  of  repentance,  and  I  have 
that  constantly  confronting  me  in  my  consciousness,  but  to  get  that 
message  over  to  the  people  we  must  depend  upon  you  because  we 
cannot  make  personal  contact  with  all,  and  so  we  speak  to  the  faithful 
members  of  the  Church. 

THE  GOSPEL  FOR  BOTH  RICH  AND  POOR 

The  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  universal  in  its  scope.  There  is 
no  man  or  woman  that  it  cannot  benefit  and  bless,  if  only  that  man 
and  woman  will  yield  obedience  to  it.  Christ  gave  His  Twelve  Apos- 
tles a  charge  to  preach  the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  with  the  promise 
that  those  who  would  respond  would  be  saved.  We  have  been  doing 
that  all  these  generations  ;  that  is,  we  have  been  preaching  the  Gospel 
to  the  people.  Many  of  them  have  never  heard  it,  however.  The 
other  day,  in  my  hearing,  a  returned  missionary  made  a  remark 
which  ran  something  like  this  :  Since  the  institution  of  the  Welfare 
work  we  have  had  to  change  our  methods.  The  question  was  asked, 
in  what  respect? 

"Well,"  he  said,  "we  are  going  to  a  better  type  of  people  now 
than  we  ever  did  before  in  our  Missions.  We  find  that  the  Welfare 
work  makes  such  an  appeal  to  a  certain  class  of  people  that  our  ranks 
would  be  flooded  with  those  who  desire  to  be  benefitted  by  that 
factor  rather  than  any  other  if  we  would  let  them  in.  That  field 
being  closed  to  us  we  have  had  to  preach  to  people  of  a  little  better 
standing,  who  are  not  quite  so  poor." 

Now  Christ,  when  John  the  Baptist  sent  to  ask  Him  if  He  was 
really  the  Christ,  said :    "Take  back  to  John  the  message  that  the 


62  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Dag 

blind  see,  the  lame  walk,  the  sick  are  healed,  and  the  Gospel  is 
preached  to  the  poor."  I  wonder  if  in  that  day  it  was  only  the  rich 
and  the  elite  that  felt  like  they  were  members  of  the  Church  of  God, 
and  that  the  preaching  of  the  Gospel  to  the  poor  was  a  novelty  in  the 
time  of  Christ.  It  may  be  that  that  was  what  brought  forth  that 
remark.  However,  in  our  age  we  have  become  accustomed  to  the 
fact  that  the  rank  and  file  of  our  converts  are  likely  to  come  out  of 
the  ranks  of  the  poor. 

This  missionary  was  talking  to  one  of  the  Twelve,  who  said:  "If 
they  had  followed  those  tactics  in  my  day  I  would  never  have  come 
into  the  Church,  for  I  have  known  what  it  means  to  be  hungry." 

We  must  teach  the  poor  always  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
in  all  the  missionary  fields  in  which  it  has  been  my  experience  to 
travel  that  has  been  customary.  But  I  often  wonder  if  there  is  not 
a  field  among  the  upper  class  people  to  which  we  might  devote  our 
attention  with  profit.  I  believe  that  in  all  the  time  I  have  been  con- 
nected with  the  Mexican  people  there  has  never  been  a  conscious 
effort  to  take  the  Gospel  to  what  might  be  there  called  the  better 
class  of  people.  When  the  Gospel  was  taken  to  people  in  Hawaii 
it  was  so  popular  among  them  that  the  very  rulers  of  that  country 
accepted  it.  There  is  there  little  distinction  between  rich  and  poor, 
all  mingling  freely  together,  but  there  were  kings  and  queens  among 
them.  It  has  been  my  pleasure  to  see  a  man  who  had  been  a  cham- 
berlain to  the  king  act  at  the  door  as  a  Deacon  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  and  become  one  of  the  Elders  in  the 
Church. 

So  I  wonder  if  there  is  not  a  field  that  we  might  look  into 
am^ng  that  class  of  people. 

The  misuse  of  riches  is  the  only  curse  that  comes  from  the 
possession  of  ample  means,  and  there  must  be  many  fine  people 
among  the  rich,  many  of  them  are  our  neighbors,  but  we  pay  little 
attention  to  them.  They  are  all  around  us. 

OUR  RESPONSIBILITY  TOWARDS  OUR  NEIGHBORS 

One  day  I  said  to  a  friend  of  mine,  speaking  of  a  neighbor  who 
had  lived  across  the  hall  from  my  wife  and  me  for  quite  a  while, 
expressing  sympathy  for  him  in  the  passing  of  his  wife,  "That  friend 
of  ours  is  a  fine  man  and  his  wife  was  a  fine  woman." 

He  said :  "Yes,  I  would  like  to  see  somebody  make  an  effort 
to  get  him  into  the  Church,  but  you  know  I  am  so  close  to  him  that 
I  dare  not  try." 

I  wonder  if  that  might  not  be  the  best  opportunity.  My  wife 
and  I  lived  across  the  hall  from  them,  and  one  day  the  woman  became 
rather  ill,  more  ill  than  usual,  she  was  always  afflicted,  and  to  our 
great  surprise  we  learned  that  she  had  asked  to  be  prayed  for  in  the 
Temple.  That  was  faith ;  though  she  was  not  a  member  of  the  Church 
and  though  her  husband  was  not,  she  had  faith  that  there  might  be 
virtue  in  a  prayer  for  her  uttered  in  our  Temple. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 


63 


There  are  many  people  like  that,  without  any  doubt,  all  around 
us,  and  the  Gospel  is  for  them,  and  if  we  do  not  take  the  message  to 
them  I  wonder  whose  fault  it  will  be  if  they  do  not  accept  it.  It 
is  a  universal  Gospel  that  we  have,  and  it  is  a  universal  responsibility 
that  rests  upon  our  shoulders  to  teach  the  Truth.  We  have  heard 
during  this  Conference  how  it  appeals  to  different  nationalities,  all 
the  way  from  Czecho-Slovakia  through  Europe  and  into  our  country, 
and  if  we  cared  to,  Brother  Hardy  and  some  of  the  others  and  I 
could  tell  you  how  it  goes  on  down  in  Polynesia,  clear  down  to  the 
Antipodes.  It  makes  of  us  all  a  common  people,  and  if  we  could  so 
introduce  it  to  these  nations  as  to  make  its  adoption  general  and  its 
principles  apply  in  the  lives  of  men,  these  struggles  that  we  are  con- 
fronted with  now  in  actuality  would  not  exist. 

CHRISTIAN  PRINCIPLES  NOT  APPLIED  IN  THE  WORLD 

It  was  once  my  privilege  to  read  an  interview  given  by  a  promi- 
nent Jewish  rabbi  in  Great  Britain.  He  was  asked  what  his  reac- 
tion to  Christianity  was  ?  He  said  it  had  been  the  greatest  difficulty 
that  the  Jews  had  had  to  meet,  and  that  it  had  been  a  failure  in 
the  world,  that  the  principles  of  Christ  had  never  been  adopted  and 
applied. 

I  wonder  if  there  ever  has  been  an  honest  effort  on  the  part  of 
so-called  Christian  nations  to  apply  the  principles  of  the  Christ. 
Did  you  ever  hear  of  a  peace  treaty  being  offered  to  a  vanquished 
people  that  had  as  its  main  purpose  the  rehabilitation  of  the  van- 
quished ?  I  think  in  all  struggles  that  we  have  entered  into  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Christ  have  not  been  dominant,  though  some  of  these 
conflicts  have  been  carried  forth  in  the  name  of  Christ.  But  greed 
and  avarice  and  many  such  motives  were  back  of  them.  If  the  time 
ever  comes  that  the  principles  of  Christianity  can  be  applied  to  the 
lives  of  men  peace  will  be  brought  about  upon  the  earth. 

My  wish  would  be  that  though  we  are  a  small  people  in  the 
world  we  might  eventually  exercise  such  an  influence  as  to  spread 
this  leaven,  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  throughout  the  whole  world 
to  such  an  extent  that  peace  may  some  day  prevail.  We  have  faith 
in  that  thing.  We  have  faith  that  perhaps  through  the  instrumen- 
tality of  this  government  of  which  we  are  a  part  we  may  be  able  to 
reach  those  ends,  and  I  pray  that  we  may  sense  our  responsibility 
to  the  nations,  and  above  all  to  the  Church,  that  we  may  realize 
the  significance  of  the  charge  which  Christ  has  given  to  us  to  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature  so  that  he  and  she  may  be  left  without 
excuse,  and  not  only  be  left  without  excuse,  but  be  given  the  won- 
derful opportunities  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  I  ask  in  His  name, 
Amen. 


64  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

ELDER  JOSEPH  E,  EVANS 

Former  President  of  the  French  Mission 

My  brethren  and  sisters  :  What  is  now  the  French  Mission  was 
one  of  the  earliest  fields  for  missionary  work  in  the  Church.  So 
much  of  commendation  could  be  said  of  that  Mission  that  it  is  dif- 
ficult to  know  what  to  say  in  the  few  minutes  allotted.  At  the  end 
of  last  October  when  we  came  away  from  France,  Elder  Gaston 
Chappuis,  of  Salt  Lake  City,  was  left  in  charge  of  the  French  Mission. 
He  had  come  to  Paris  on  his  second  mission  about  two  days  before 
war  was  declared.  He  is  a  native  of  Switzerland,  a  second-genera- 
tion member.  And  so  is  his  wife,  who  was  born  in  Belgium.  They 
are  well  trained  and  qualified  to  do  their  work.  Together  they  are 
publishing  the  Mission's  monthly  magazine,  translating  and  mailing 
out  lessons  to  the  Branches  in  Belgium,  French  Switzerland  and 
France,  and  generally  endeavoring  to  encourage  the  members  in 
their  faith  and  to  stimulate  activity  and  keep  the  Mission  organiza- 
tion intact. 

Notwithstanding  the  inroads  of  war  and  these  times  of  trial  and 
trouble,  our  members  are  holding  fast  to  that  better  life  to  which 
they  have  dedicated  themselves.  In  spite  of  popular  misconceptions 
concerning  Mormonism,  our  members  have  the  moral  support  of 
multitudes  of  friends.  Although  their  problems  are  extremely  dif- 
ficult they  are  never  insoluble,  because  in  an  effort  to  harmonize 
their  lives  with  God's  teachings,  they  gain  a  renewed  sense  of  values 
and  are  blessed  with  wisdom  and  great  courage.  Their  experiences 
in  the  Church  have  taught  them  to  think  clearly  and  for  themselves. 
Nothing  else  has  ever  offered  them  the  same  opportunity  for  intel- 
lectual enrichment  and  spiritual  happiness.  Fortunately  they  are 
living  in  countries  where  up  to  now  their  churches  have  not  been 
destroyed  and  where  the  word  of  God  is  not  forbidden.  That  is 
true  in  Belgium,  Switzerland  and  France. 

A  week  ago  I  received  a  heart-warming  letter  from  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Belgian  District,  who  is  a  native  of  Liege,  Belgium. 
Twenty-five  years  ago — during  the  first  world  war — -his  father  shep- 
herded our  Church  members  and  with  God's  protecting  care  brought 
them  through  the  severe  trials  of  that  conflict.  Today  this  son  is 
following  in  his  father's  footsteps,  while  three  of  his  brothers,  all 
active  members  of  the  Church,  are  in  the  Belgian  army.  He  is  an 
intelligent,  wide-awake  leader.  On  three  occasions  he  has  been 
decorated  by  the  King  of  Belgium.  His  work  is  outstanding,  as  the 
work  of  so  many  of  our  members  over  there  is.  In  his  letter  he  says 
that  meetings  are  being  held  in  all  Branches  in  Belgium,  and  that  a 
District  Conference  is  being  planned  for  May.  Even  though  income 
has  shrunk  and  living  costs  have  mounted,  the  members  of  one  of  the 
Branches  in  this  District  are  slowly  accumulating  a  fund  to  be  used 
for  the  purchase  of  a  site  for  a  meeting  house.  And  so,  amid  the 
hideous  discords  of  war  and  at  a  time  when  they  are  tortured  in  spirit, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  E.  EVANS 


65 


these  people  are  giving  their  time  and  energies  to  maintaining  the 
work  of  the  Church,  which  is  no  mean  achievement.  Their  faith  and 
devotion  have  proved  an  inspiration  to  me.  The  influence  of  our 
Church  throughout  the  French  Mission  is  impossible  to  calculate. 
Everywhere  it  exerts  a  powerful  force  for  building  better  men,  for 
regenerating  mankind.  Its  strict  adherence  to  the  high  standards 
set  by  the  Savior  makes  its  stupendous  progress  no  accident. 

For  more  than  a  century  the  Church  has  made  an  earnest  effort 
to  spread  the  Gospel  in  Europe,  but  never,  I  believe,  with  more  de- 
termined zeal  than  within  the  past  few  years.  At  least  that  is  so  in 
Belgium,  France  and  Switzerland,  although  the  apparent  results 
achieved  may  not  compare  too  favorably  with  those  of  other  Euro- 
pean Missions.  I  am  reminded  of  the  nine  tons  of  ore  necessary  to 
produce  one  gram  of  radium.  But  when  produced  that  one  gram 
of  radium  is  worth  $25,000!  The  analogy  is  not  perfect,  but  it  does 
appear  to  me  that  it  takes  a  great  deal  of  work  and  effort  to  "ex- 
tract,1" as  it  were,  one  precious  soul  from  the  world.  The  results  are 
perhaps  at  this  moment  obscured  by  the  impact  of  war.  What  has 
gone  on  over  there  during  the  past  two  years  is  without  parallel  in 
history,  and  it  is  occasion  for  marvel  that  we  have  accomplished  as 
much  as  we  have  under  such  great  handicaps. 

Our  missionaries  have  given  good  account  of  the  stewardship 
intrusted  to  them,  despite  expressions  of  intense  disappointment  and 
a  feeling  that  their  efforts  culminated  in  frustration  because  of  the 
war.  I  am  sure  that  before  God  their  work  has  not  come  amiss.  To 
their  everlasting  credit  it  should  be  said  that  during  the  never-to-be- 
forgotten  complex  happenings  of  last  September  and  October  they 
were  strong  and  of  good  courage.  President  Toronto  of  the  Czech 
Mission  spoke  of  his  missionaries  as  being  the  best  young  men  to 
walk  the  earth.  I  ate  and  slept  with  mine,  walked  and  talked  with 
them,  shared  their  successes  and  disappointments,  and  at  the  risk  of 
making  a  comparison  I  should  like  to  say  they  were  even  better  than 
President  Toronto's  missionaries. 

In  Belgium,  France  and  Switzerland,  comparative  freedom  has 
been  vouchsafed  to  our  missionaries  to  promulgate  the  principles 
of  the  Gospel.  Effort  has  been  made  to  correlate  their  work  with 
conditions  as  we  found  them,  with  emphasis  on  the  importance  of 
learning  to  speak  the  French  language  correctly  and  fluently.  I 
feel  certain  that  such  preparation  presages  greater  success.  Every- 
where we  have  found  a  friendly  spirit  of  inquiry.  Never  have  we 
felt  that  our  obligation  to  the  honest  investigator  was  discharged 
simply  by  leaving  Mormon  literature  with  him.  We  have  sought  to 
persuade  him  to  employ  critical  reasoning  and  serious  thought  to 
the  Gospel,  for  in  it  we  are  confident  he  will  find  the  only  true 
answer  to  his  problems  and  aspirations,  as  well  as  those  inner 
satisfactions  that  are  deeper  and  more  enduring  than  anything  else 
in  life,  and  equally  as  well  also,  opportunities  for  furthering  well- 
being  and  happiness.  ,  r 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


Missionaries  to  Europe  obtain  an  international  interest  and 
point  of  view,  particularly  in  the  cultural  affairs  of  life.  They  acquire 
a  broad  range  of  facts  on  which  to  formulate  and  base  sound  judg- 
ments. Mormon  missionaries  generally,  in  my  opinion,  influence 
the  spiritual  life  of  the  world,  because  their  efforts  are  instrumental 
in  opening  up  to  the  communities  in  which  they  proselyte,  new  and 
fresh  opportunities  for  serving  God,  for  crystallizing  hopes  into  ac- 
tion, for  working  out  salvation. 

Sister  Evans  and  I  have  strong  testimonies  of  the  truth  of  the 
Gospel,  testimonies  which  come  from  God.  We  shall  never  forget 
the  golden  memories  of  the  French  Mission,  which  become,  as  time 
passes,  more  and  more  pleasant,  uplifting  and  inspirational.  With 
all  our  hearts  we  want  to  respond  to  every  call  that  may  be  made 
of  us  and  if  and  when  conditions  warrant  to  return  to  complete  our 
missions. 

May  the  Lord  bless  and  prosper  this  work  throughout  the  world 
is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  humbly  in  the  name  of  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ,  Amen. 

An  athem,  "O  Savior  of  the  World,1"  (Goss),  was  sung  by  the 
Ricks  College  Choir. 


I  want  to  talk  to  you  today  about  the  abundant  life.  The  expression 
belongs  to  the  sayings  of  Jesus.    I  quote  him. 


I  am  the  door :  by  me  if  any  man  enter  in,  he  shall  be  saved,  and  shall 
go  in  and  out,  and  find  pasture. 

The  thief  cometh  not,  but  for  to  steal,  and  to  kill,  and  to  destroy:  I 
am  come  that  they  might  have  life,  and  that  they  might  have  it  more  abun- 
dantly. (John  10:9-10.) 


That  fine  phrase,  coined  and  employed  by  the  Master,  has  in  recent 
times  been  so  violently  wrenched  from  the  noble  setting  in  which  He 
put  it  and  has  been  made  to  assume  a  signfkance  so  widely  variant  from 
the  one  He  gave  it  that,  having  regard  to  its  original  sense,  one  now 
shrinks  from  using  it  at  all. 

Without,  I  believe,  the  customary  acknowledgement  of  its  origin, 
it  has  been  dragged  down  from  its  high  spiritual  plane  to  the  ordinary 
level  of  every  day  materialism.  More  often  than  not  now-a-days  "the 
abundant  life"  is  made  the  synonym  for  a  full  stomach,  or  a  modernized 
home,  or  coveted  apparel,  or  a  new  model  automobile.  And  these  mere 
things  are  held  up  to  view  as  if  they  constituted  the  goal  of  ultimate  de- 
sire, which,  is  symtomatic  of  present  day  measures  of  value. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOWEN 


Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


THE  SAVIOR'S  WORDS 


THE  MEANING  CHANGED 


ELDER  ABERT  E.  BOW  EN 


67 


A  HIGHER  INTERPRETATION 

But  it  is  abundantly  clear  that  that  is  not  at  all  what  was  in  the  mind 
of  Jesus  when  He  used  the  expression.  It  follows  immediately  upon 
His  declaration  that  it  was  by  Him  that  man  shall  be  saved.  Salvation 
meant  to  Him  something  far  different  than  the  mere  physical  comfort 
or  even  preservation  of  the  mortal  body,  or  the  gratification  of  the  physi- 
cal senses,  or  the  invention  of  new  excitements  to  relieve  us  of  our  arti- 
ficially created  boredoms. 

He  was  always  concerned  with  eternal  spiritual  values,  never  with 
mere  things,  as  His  utterances  so  fully  show.  When  He  talked  about  life 
He  always  embraced  within  His  meaning  something  far  transcending  the 
satisfying  powers  of  mere  things. 

PARABLE  OF  THE  RICH  MAN 

Let  us  take  an  example : 

i 

And  He  said  unto  them,  Take  heed,  and  beware  of  covetousness :  for 
a  man's  life  consisteth  not  in  the  abundance  of  the  things  which  he  pos- 
sesseth. 

And  He  spake  a  parable  unto  them,  saying,  The  ground  of  a  certain 
rich  man  brought  forth  plentifully: 

And  he  thought  within  himself,  saying,  What  shall  I  do,  because  I 
have  no  room  where  to  bestow  my  fruits? 

And  he  said,  This  will  I  do:  I  will  put  down  my  barns,  and  build 
greater ;  and  there  will  I  bestow  all  my  fruits  and  my  goods. 

And  I  will  say  to  my  soul,  Soul,  thou  hast  much  goods  laid  up  for  many 
years ;  take  thine  ease,  eat,  drink,  and  be  merry. 

But  God  said  unto  him,  Thou  fool,  this  night  thy  soul  shall  be  re- 
quired of  thee;  then  whose  shall  those  things  be,  which  thou  hast  pro- 
vided ? 

So  is  he  that  layeth  up  treasure  for  himself,  and  is  not  rich  toward 

God. 

And  He  said  unto  His  disciples,  Therefore,  I  say  unto  you,  Take  no 
thought  for  your  life,  what  ye  shall  eat;  neither  for  the  body,  what  ye 
shall  put  on. 

The  life  is  more  than  meat,  and  the  body  is  more  than  raiment. 
(Luke  12:15-23.) 

There  you  have  it  crystal  clear.  "A  man's  life  consisteth  not  in  the 
abundance  of  the  things  which  he  possesseth."  And  "The  life  is  more  than 
meat  and  the  body  is  more  than  raiment." 

CARE  OF  THE  BODY  ESSENTIAL 

Now  I  would  not  have  you  suppose  that  I  am  trying  to  say  to  you 
that  your  physical  needs  may  be  ignored  or  even  neglected.  The  body 
is  the  physical  instrumentality  through  which  we  work  in  this  physical 
world.  It  requires  physical  food  and  material  shelter  to  perpetuate  it  in 
being.  Its  perpetuation  is  essential  to  the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes 
of  this  earth  life. 

Within  limits  the  meeting  of  the  requirements  of  the  physical  body 
is  essential  to  the  successful  spiritual  and  mental  progress  of  mortal  man. 
This  we  have  always  recognized.  But  when  we  with  the  single  purpose  of 


68  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  6  Second  Day 

amassing  to  ourselves  a  multiplication  of  things  with  which  to  augment 
our  individual  power,  selfishly  try  to  gather  to  ourselves  alone,  to 
the  exclusion  of  our  fellow  men,  then  we  are  losing  our  sense  of  propor- 
tion and  are  exalting  the  incidentals  of  life  over  the  essence  of  life  itself. 

Perhaps  between  the  material  and  the  spiritual,  properly  coordinated, 
there  is  no  sharp  line  of  separation,  but  the  material  must  always  be  ser- 
vant of  the  spiritual,  its  proper  sovereign. 

PRESIDENT  YOUNG'S  PRACTICAL  TEACHING 

President  Brigham  Young  gave  us  some  sound  teaching  in  this  re- 
spect.  Said  he : 

Our  preaching  to  you  from  Sabbath  to  Sabbath,  sending  the  Gospel 
to  the  nations,  gathering  the  people,  opening  farms,  making  needed  'im- 
provements, and  building  cities,  all  pertain  to  salvation.  The  Gospel  is 
designed  to  gather  a  people  that  will  be  of  one  heart  and  of  one  mind. 
Let  every  individual  in  this  city  feel  the  same  interest  for  the  public  good 
as  he  does  for  his  own,  and  you  will  at  once  see  this  community  still  more 
prosperous,  and  still  more  rapidly  increasing  in  wealth,  influence,  and 
power.  But  where  each  one  seeks  to  benefit  himself  or  herself  alone,  and 
does  not  cherish  a  feeling  for  the  prosperity  and  benefit  of  the  whole,  that 
people  will  be  disorderly,  unhappy,  and  poverty-stricken,  and  distress, 
animosity  and  strife  will  reign. 

Efforts  to  accumulate  property  in  the  correct  channel  are  far  from 
being  an  injury  to  any  community,  on  the  contrary  they  are  highly  bene- 
ficial, provided  individuals,  with  all  that  they  have,  always  hold  themselves 
in  readiness  to  advance  the  interests  of  the  Kingdom  of  God  on  the  earth. 
Let  every  man  and  woman  be  industrious,  prudent,  and  economical  in 
their  acts  and  feelings,  and  while  gathering  to  themselves,  let  each  one 
strive  to  identify  his  or  her  interests  with  the  interests  of  this  commun- 
ity with  those  of  their  neighbor  and  neighborhood,  let  them  seek  their 
happiness  and  welfare  in  that  of  all,  and  we  will  be  blessed  and  pros- 
pered.  (Journal  of  Discourses,  Vol.  3,  page  330.) 

ULTIMATE  PURPOSE  OF  LIFE 

Mortality  is  not  the  ultimate  destiny  of  man.  The  things  essential 
to  mortal  life  are  in  life  and  of  life,  but  they  are  not  life  itself ;  they  are 
mere  incidentals.  Life  itself  has  some  other  purpose  than  feeding  and 
clothing  and  sheltering  the  body.  It  is  the  realization  of  that  purpose 
that  Jesus  was  concerned  about.  Therein  is  to  be  found  the  abundant 
life. 

To  the  inquiring  rich  young  man  He  said,  "If  thou  wilt  enter  into 
life,  keep  the  commandments."  (Matt.  19:17) 

This  seems  to  say  that  moving,  animated,  sentient  human  beings, 
howsoever  well  fed  or  clothed  or  sheltered,  or  entertained  or  amused 
have  not  even  seen  life,  or  tasted  of  it,  or  entered  into  it,  unless  they  have 
brought  themselves  into  a  rational  understanding  of  its  ultimate  purpose. 
Enlarging  upon  His  terse  answer  to  the  young  man  Jesus  said: 

Thou  shalt  do  no  murder.  Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery.  Thou 
shalt  not  steal.  Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness. 

Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother:  and  thou  shalt  love  thy  neigh- 
bor as  thyself. 


ELDER  ALBERT  E.  BOW  EN 


69 


You  will  notice  that  here  again  the  woof  of  the  life  that  He  has  in 
mind  consists  in  those  soul  qualities  which  when  woven  into  the  warp 
of  a  man  lift  him  high  above  the  level  of  gross  materialism  into  the  rare- 
fied atmosphere  of  the  spirit. 

Jesus  was  concerned  about  preparing  men  to  live  the  spiritual  law 
and  to  fit  them  for  life  in  His  kingdom  where  that  law  shall  reign.  There 
is  the  abode  of  those  who  attain  the  fulness  of  the  abundant  life.  To 
that  end  the  burden  of  His  teaching  was  that  men  should  keep  the  com- 
mandments. He  spent  much  of  His  time  training  disciples  to  carry  on 
the  teaching  after  He  himself  should  be  gone.  He  told  them  to  go  out 
and  teach  all  men  everywhere.  That  was  the  commission.  The  promise 
was  that  they  who  believed  should  be  saved.  There  is  no  promise  to  any 
other. 

ACCEPTANCE  OF  GOSPEL  TEACHINGS  NECESSARY 

It  is  true  that  certain  things  were  to  be  done  by  those  who  believed. 
But  He  knew  that  belief  must  precede  the  doing  of  them.  He  knew,  too, 
that  they  would  surely  follow  from  sincere  belief,  hence  the  preeminent 
importance  of  belief.  It  is  the  crying  need  of  the  world  today.  If  men 
would  but  believe  and  translate  their  belief  into  living  practices,  how 
different  a  place  to  live  in  this  earth  would  be. 

The  commandments  emanated  from  Jesus  himself.  Before  it  could 
be  expected  that  men  would  accept  them,  they  must  accept  Him.  Thus 
He  became  the  central  figure  about  which  all  the  teachings  revolved. 

To  the  multitude  who  crowded  about  Him  the  day  after  He  had  fed 
them  He  said  : 

Ye  seek  me,  not  because  ye  saw  the  miracles,  but  because  ye  did  eat 
of  the  loaves  and  were  filled. 

Labor  not  for  the  meat  which  perisheth,  but  for  that  meat  which 
endureth  to  everlasting  life,  which  the  Son  of  Man  shall  give  unto  you. 

They  reminded  Him  that  their  fathers  in  the  desert  were  fed  by 
manna  from  heaven  and  demanded  of  Him  that  He  shew  them  His  works 
that  they  might  believe.  He  in  turn  reminded  them  that  their  fathers  who 
had  eaten  manna  in  the  wilderness,  w.re  all  dead.    Then  He  said : 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  He  that  believeth  on  me  hath  ever- 
lasting life. 

I  am  that  bread  of  life. 

***** 

This  is  the  bread  which  cometh  down  from  heaven,  that  a  man  may 
eat  thereof  and  not  die. 

***** 

From  that  time — says  the  record  pathetically — many  of  His  disciples 
went  back,  and  walked  no  more  with  Him. 

If  you  will  search  the  record  you  will  find  that  at  no  time  did  He 
make  any  promise  of  ease,  or  comfort,  or  freedom  from  distress  or  from 
sorrow  or  suffering,  or  of  exemption  from  privation  or  want  or  sacrifice. 
None  of  these  was  an  element  in  the  abundant  life.  All  of  them  He 
endured  Himself. 


70  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  6  Second  Day 


THE  TEMPTER  OVERCOME 

Preparatory  to  entering  upon  His  ministry  He  went  into  the  desert 
alone.  When  He  was  weakened  from  long  vigils  and  fasting  the  tempter 
bade  Him,  in  proof  of  His  Sonship,  to  command  that  the  stones  be  turned 
into  bread,  that  His  hunger  might  be  appeased.  Resisting  this  He  was 
shown  from  the  top  of  a  high  mountain  all  the  kingdoms  of  the  world 
which,  with  all  the  glory  of  them,  were  offered  Him  if  He  would  but 
bow  in  worship  to  the  Tempter.  Rising  to  heights  befitting  the  majesty 
of  the  Son  of  God  He  issued  the  stern  command,  "Get  thee  hence 
Satan :  for  it  is  written,  Thou  shalt  worship  the  Lord  thy  God,  and  Him 
only  shalt  thou  serve."  At  the  same  time  He  promulgated  that  other 
profound  truth.  "Man  shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  out  of  the  mouth  of  God."  He  could  have  fed  His  hun- 
ger, and  accepted  the  dominion  of  the  kingdoms  of  the  world,  and  their 
glory,  and  escaped  Golgotha.  His  refusal  led  straight  to  that  dolorous 
hill  and  the  apparent  end  of  it  all.  But  Golgotha,  not  bread  or  dominion 
or  glory,  was  the  way  of  the  abundant  life.  It  brought  Him  swiftly 
to  the  dawn  of  that  triumphant  morning  at  the  end  of  the  Sabbath  on 
the  first  day  of  the  week  when  Mary  Magdalene  and  the  other  Mary 
came  to  the  sepulchre  and  were  greeted  by  the  angel  who,  seated  on  the 
stone  at  the  door  said : 

Fear  not  ye;  for  I  know  that  ye  seek  Jesus  which  was  crucified. 

He  is  not  here;  for  He  is  risen,  as  He  said.  Come  see  the  place 
where  the  Lord  lay. 

And  go  quickly  and  tell  His  disciples  that  He  is  risen  from  the  dead ; 
and  behold,  He  goeth  before  you  into  Galilee ;  there  ye  shall  see  Him. 

Thus  came  the  great  crowning  achievement  of  His  life. 

You  will  have  observed  that  I  am  making  no  argument  for  the 
authenticity  of  the  words  of  Jesus  nor  of  the  records  which  preserve 
them.  I  accept  them,  which  is  what  all  believing  Christians  must  do. 
Very  persuasive  arguments  could  be  and  have  been  made,  but  neither 
the  limits  of  time  nor  the  nature  of  the  occasion  admit  of  them  here. 
We  accept  Jesus  as  the  Son  of  God,  the  Author  of  our  being  and  our 
ultimate  Savior. 

ETERNAL  LIFE  THE  GREATEST  PRIZE 

To  that  faith  we  cling  because  it  concerns  life  itself  which  is  man's 
most  cherished  possession — the  thing  which  he  prizes  above  all  else. 
Howsoever  many  things  a  man  may  have  gathered  about  him,  he  nor- 
mally would  give  all  of  them  when  life  is  threatened  if  by  the  exchange 
he  could  procure  an  extension  of  it.  Life  he  soon  comes  to  sense  is 
all  there  is  of  him.  Without  that  he  is  but  a  lump  of  clay,  and  all  these 
other  things  without  meaning  and  useless.  In  very  truth  the  projection 
of  it  beyond  the  grave,  the  assuring  it  there  of  endless  duration — eternal 
life — is  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  man. 

The  alternative  is  oblivion.  The  sinking  with  death  into  nothing- 
ness— the  end.    Extinction.    The  irremediable  severance  of  all  the  fond 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


71 


associations  of  a  life  time.  The  abrupt  cutting  off  and  non-revivable 
termination,  so  far  as  concerns  the  individual,  of  all  the  fine  intelligence 
and  acquisitions  of  knowledge  born  of  a  lifetime  of  industry,  toil  and 
struggle  and  yearning  and  soul-striving.  The  smothering  in  the  black 
darkness  of  unending  night  of  all  the  hopes  and  aspirations  which  have 
guided  man  in  his  struggle  upward  to  higher  planes.  The  withering  up 
by  the  blight  of  death  of  the  qualities  of  kindliness,  gentleness,  forbear- 
ance, mercy,  tenderness  and  love  which  have  grown  and  flowered  in  him 
through  his  practice  of  those  virtues  in  association  with  his  fellows. 

No  one,  I  suspect,  likes  to  contemplate  for  himself  so  uninviting 
and  uninspiring  and  wasteful  an  exit  from  life.  Rather  do  we  turn  to 
the  bright  hope  held  out  to  us  in  the  promise  of  Jesus : 

There  is  no  man  that  hath  left  house,  or  parents,  or  brethren,  or  wife, 
or  children  for  the  Kingdom  of  God's  sake,  who  shall  not  receive  mani- 
fold more  in  this  present  time,  and  in  the  world  to  come  life  everlasting. 

In  the  way  to  that  goal  lies  the  abundant  life.  I  pray  God  we  may 
all  attain  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

Last  night  I  reported  to  President  Grant  by  telephone  the 
first  day  of  the  Conference.  He  was  delighted,  of  course,  to  know 
that  we  had  had  such  a  wonderful  time  together,  and  was  keenly 
desirous  that  we  should  continue  to  enjoy  the  blessings  of  the  Lord. 

EXPLANATION  OF  MANNER  OF  VOTING 

We  shall  now  present  for  your  sustaining  vote  the  General 
Authorities,  and  certain  Church-wide  groups  of  officers,  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

For  the  benefit  of  the  strangers  who  may  be  meeting  here  with 
us  or  listening  on  the  air,  a  few  words  of  explanation  may  be  given. 

To  speak  in  terms  of  political  science,  this  assembly  here  today, 
this  Annual  Conference,  of  the  Priesthood  and  membership  of  the 
Church  will,  for  the  purpose  of  sustaining  the  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  act  as  a  constituent  assembly.  Every  General  Authority 
of  the  Church,  as  well  as  other  Church  officers,  comes  before  such 
an  assembly  twice  each  year. 

Again  speaking  in  terms  of  political  science,  in  the  Church  the 
nominating  power  rests  in  a  group,  the  General  Authorities,  but  the 
sustaining  or  electing  power  rests  in  the  body  of  the  Church,  which 
under  no  circumstances  nominates  officers,  the  function  of  the 
Church  body  being  solely  to  sustain  or  to  elect.  In  fact,  as  will  be 
seen,  the  General  Authority  or  other  officer  is  proposed  to  the 
body  of  the  Church  for  their  sustaining  vote. 

The  sole  function  of  this  constitutent  assembly  today,  is,  as 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


already  stated,  to  accept  or  reject  the  General  Authority  or  other 
officers  proposed  to  them.  This  assembly  may  not  propose  others 
to  be  voted  upon. 

Futhermore,  the  actual  procedure  for  voting  is  normally  by 
the  uplifted  hand  of  those  present.  No  electioneering,  no  speech- 
making,  no  stating  of  objections,  no  proposing  of  candidates,  no 
vocal  demonstration  of  any  kind  is  in  order.  Anyone  seeking  to  do 
any  of  these  things  would  not  only  be  out  of  order  as  a  matter  of 
procedure,  but  would  be  likewise  breaking  the  peace  of  the  State  by 
interrupting  and  disturbing  a  public  assembly,  would  be  subject  to 
arrest  as  a  disturber  of  the  peace,  and  if  necessary,  would  have  to  be 
so  dealt  with  as  a  matter  of  public  order.  This  assembly  might  be 
called  the  "voting  booth1"  of  the  Church.  This  will  be  clear  to  all 
our  listeners. 

It  is  obvious  that  only  members  of  the  Church  are  entitled  to 
vote,  and  an  excommunicant  is  not  a  member. 

Anyone  not  desiring  to  sustain  anyone  proposed  may  not  only 
indicate  his  dissent  here  but  he  may,  if  he  wishes,  present  his  objec- 
tions to  the  proper  authority  of  the  Church,  and  will  be  given  an  ap- 
propriate hearing.  This  is  the  rule  and  order  of  the  Church. 


The  result  of  this  system  is  that  there  has  never  been  any  politics 
in  the  Church.  Church-men  do  not  seek  Church  office.  The  best 
evidence  that  a  man  is  unfit  for  Church  office  is  the  fact  that  he 
wants  it. 

The  principle  behind  the  system  is  set  forth  in  the  fifth  of  the 
Articles  of  Faith, — the  equivalent  of  the  creed  of  other  churches. 
It  reads — 

We  believe  that  a  man  must  be  called  of  God,  by  prophecy,  and 
by  the  laying  on  of  hands,  by  those  who  are  in  authority  to  preach 
the  Gospel  and  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

REVELATIONS  REGARDING  THE  PRESIDENT  OF  THE  CHURCH 

That  the  matter  may  be  better  understood,  it  should  be  said 
that  the  President  of  the  Church  is  "the  Presiding  High  Priest  over 
the  High  Priesthood  of  the  Church." 

The  revealed  rule  on  this  is  as  follows : 

Then  comes  the  High  Priesthood  which  is  the  greatest  of  all. 

Wherefore,  it  must  needs  be  that  one  be  appointed  of  the  High 
Priesthood  to  preside  over  the  Priesthood,  and  he  shall  be  called  Presi- 
dent of  the  High  Priesthood  of  the  Church ; 

Or  in  other  words,  the  Presiding  High  Priest  over  the  High  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church.   (Doctrine  and  Covenants  107:64-66.) 


The  President  of  the  Church ...  is  appointed  by  revelation  and  ac- 
knowledged in  his  administration  by  the  voice  of  the  Church.  (Doctrine 
and  Covenants  102:9.) 


CHURCH  OFFICES  NOT  SOUGHT 


Again : 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR.  73 

As  to  the  duties  and  functions  of  the  President  of  the  Church, 
the  revealed  rule  provides : 

And  again,  the  duty  of  the  President  of  the  office  of  the  High  Priest- 
hood is  to  preside  over  the  whole  Church,  and  to  be  like  unto  Moses — 

Behold,  here  is  wisdom;  yea,  to  be  ,a  seer,  a  revelator,  a  translator, 
and  a  prophet,  having  a'l  the  gifts  of  God  which  he  bestows  upon  the 
head  of  the  Church.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  107:91,92.) 

DUTIES  OF  THE  FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

To  the  First  Presidency  in  the  Prophet  Joseph's  time,  the  Lord 
said : 

And  now,  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  give  unto  you  a  commandment 
that  you  continue  in  the  ministry  and  presidency.  *  *  * 

And  set  in  order  the  churches,  and  study  and  learn,  and  become 
acquainted  with  all  good  books,  and  with  languages,  tongues,  and  people. 

And  this  shall  be  your  business  and  mission  in  all  your  lives,  to 
preside  in  council,  and  set  in  order  all  the  affairs  of  this  Church  and 
Kingdom.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  90:12,  IS.  16.) 

Other  pertinent  revealed  rules  regarding  the  presiding  author- 
ity of  the  Church  are : 

Of  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  three  Presiding  High  Priests,  chosen 
by  the  body,  appointed  and  ordained  to  that  office,  and  upheld  by  the  con- 
fidence, faith,  and  prayer  of  the  Church,  form  a  quorum  of  the  Presidency 
of  the  Church.  *  *  * 

The  Twelve  are  a  Traveling  Presiding  High  Council,  to  officiate 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord,  under  the  direction  of  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  agreeable  to  the  institution  of  heaven;  to  build  up  the  Church, 
and  regulate  all  the  affairs  of  the  same  in  all  nations,  first  unto  the  Gen- 
tiles and  secondly  unto  the  Jews.  *  *  * 

The  Presidency  of  the  High  Priesthood,  after  the  order  of  Melchize- 
dek, have  a  right  to  officiate  in  all  the  offices  in  the  Church.  (Doctrine 
and  Covenants  107 :22, 33, 39.)  " 

Speaking  to  the  Presidency  in  1832  the  Lord  said : 

Unto  whom  I  have  given  the  keys  of  the  Kingdom,  which  belong 
always  unto  the  Presidency  of  the  High  Priesthood.  (Doctrine  and 
Covenants  81 :2.) 

RESPONSIBILITY  IN  VOTING 

With  this  view  of  the  rights,  powers,  and  duties  of  the  President 
of  the  High  Priesthood  of  the  Church,  and  also  of  the  First  Presi- 
dency, it  is  clear  that  the  sustaining  vote  by  the  people  is  not,  and 
is  not  to  be  regarded  as,  a  mere  matter  of  form,  but  on  the  contrary 
a  matter  of  the  last  gravity.  Every  person  is  entitled  to  indicate 
whether  or  not  he  or  she  can  sustain  the  officer  proposed.  While 
all  the  Church  members  vote  and  sustain  the  officer,  yet  the  sustain- 
ing Priesthood  power  comes  from  the  Priesthood  itself.  Your  voting 
will  result  in  the  Church  body's  acknowledging  the  administration 


74  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  6  Second  Day 

of  the  man  appointed  by  revelation  as  the  Presiding  High  Priest  over 
the  High  Priesthood  of  the  Church. 

You  here  today  will  by  your  vote  also  sustain  those  who,  in 
the  due  order  of  the  Church,  labor  with  and  under  the  President's 
authorized  direction. 

It  is  therefore  the  high  and  solemn  duty  of  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Church  to  gather  to  this  constitutent  assembly,  this  Conference 
of  the  Church,  and  to  cast  their  sustaining  vote  for  him  who  is  ap- 
pointed the  Presiding  High  Priest,  the  President  of  the  Church,  and 
for  those  under  him  whose  names  shall  be  presented.  Those  who 
come  here  thus  to  declare  their  acknowledging  and  sustaining,  as  the 
President  of  the  High  Priesthood  and  as  the  Presiding  High  Priest 
over  the  High  Priesthood  of  the  Church,  him  whom  God  has  called 
to  this  office,  deserve  the  blessing  they  will  thereby  receive.  They 
are  to  be  commended  for  their  attendance  here  today.  It  is  to  be 
hoped  they  will  attend  all  future  assemblies  of  this  sort. 


President  Clark  then  presented  for  the  vote  of  the  Conference 
the  General  Authorities  and  General  Officers  of  the  Church,  also  the 
General  Auxiliary  Officers,  as  follows : 

GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

FIRST  PRESIDENCY 

Heber  J.  Grant,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  and  President  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 
David  O.  McKay,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

PRESIDENT  OF  THE  COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson 

COUNCIL  OF  THE  TWELVE  APOSTLES 

Rudger  Clawson  Richard  R.  Lyman 

Reed  Smoot  John  A.  Widtsoe 

George  Albert  Smith  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

George  F.  Richards  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Albert  E.  Bowen 

Stephen  L  Richards  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon 

ACTING  PATRIARCH  TO  THE  CHURCH 

George  F.  Richards 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles, 
and  the  Acting  Patriarch  to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers,  and  Rev- 
elators. 

TRUSTEE  IN  TRUST 

Heber  J.  Grant 

As  Trustee  in  Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  SUSTAINED  75 


THE  FIRST  COUNCIL  OF  THE  SEVENTY 

Rulon  S.  Wells  Samuel  O.  Bennion 

Levi  Edgar  Young  John  H.  Taylor 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Rufus  K.  Hardy 

Richard  L.  Evans 


PRESIDING  BISHOPRIC 

LeGrand  Richards,  Presiding  Bishop 
Marvin  O.  Ashton,  First  Counselor 
Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Second  Counselor 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

CHURCH  HISTORIAN  AND  RECORDER 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  the  following  assistants :  Andrew 
Jenson  and  A.  William  Lund. 

CHURCH  BOARD  OF  EDUCATION 

Heber  J.  Grant  John  A.  Widtsoe 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Adam  S.  Bennion 

David  O.  McKay  Joseph  F.  Merrill 

Rudger  Clawson  Charles  A.  Callis 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Franklin  L.  West 

Stephen  L  Richards  Albert  E.  Bowen 
Richard  R.  Lyman 

Arthur  Winter,  Secretary  and  Treasurer 

COMMISSIONER  OF  EDUCATION 

Franklin  L.  West 

SEMINARY  SUPERVISOR 

M.  Lynn  Bennion 

AUDITING  AND  FINANCE  COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams  George  S.  Spencer 

Albert  E.  Bowen  Harold  H.  Bennett 


TABERNACLE  CHOIR 


Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President ;  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor : 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor. 

ORGANISTS 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Wade  N.  Stephens,  Assistant 


76  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Dag 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 


ADVISERS 


John  A.  Widtsoe  LeGrand  Richards 

Albert  E.  Bowan  Marvin  O.  Ashton 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

John  H.  Taylor 
General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 


GENERAL  COMMITTEE 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Robert  L.  Judd,  Vice-Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Mark  Austin  Sterling  H.  Nelson 

Campbell  M.  Brown  William  E.  Ryberg 

Clyde  C.  Edmunds  Stringham  A.  Stevens 

J.  Frank  Ward 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

NATIONAL  WOMAN'S  RELIEF  SOCIETY 

Amy  Brown  Lyman,  President 
Marcia  K.  Howells,  First  Counselor 
Donna  D.  Sorensen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 

George  D.  Pyper,  General  Superintendent 
Milton  Bennion,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
George  R.  Hill,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  MEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

George  Q.  Morris,  General  Superintendent 
Joseph  J.  Cannon,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 
Burton  K.  Farnsworth,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

YOUNG  WOMEN'S  MUTUAL  IMPROVEMENT  ASSOCIATION 

Lucy  Grant  Cannon,  President 
Helen  Spencer  Williams,  First  Counselor 
Verna  W.  Goddard,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

PRIMARY  ASSOCIATION 

May  Green  Hinckley,  Superintendent 

Adele  Cannon  Howells,  1st  Asst.  Superintendent 


ELDER  M.  DOUGLAS  WOOD 


77 


Janet  Murdoch  Thompson,  2nd  Asst.  Superintendent 
with  all  the  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


At  the  conclusion  of  the  foregoing  presentation  and  voting,  Pres- 
ident Clark  announced  that  the  voting,  so  far  as  he  could  observe, 
was  unanimous  in  the  affirmative.  His  attention  was  called,  how- 
ever, to  one  vote  in  the  negative  on  the  proposition  to  sustain  the 
First  Presidency.* 

At  the  suggestion  of  President  Clark,  the  congregation  arose 
and  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee,  O  God  for  a  Prophet." 


ELDER  M.  DOUGLAS  WOOD 

Former  President  of  the  West  German  Mission 

I  am  filled  with  appreciation  this  morning  to  be  with  you  again 
in  this  wonderful  Conference  session.  In  my  heart  there  is  a  prayer 
of  gratitude  to  my  Father  in  heaven ;  first,  for  the  privilege  of  mem- 
bership in  this  wonderful  Church ;  next,  a  prayer  for  our  homes  here 
in  this  wonderful  land,  a  land  that  our  Father  in  heaven  Himself  has 
told  us  is  choice  above  all  others ;  and  third,  there  is  in  my  heart  a 
prayer  for  those  thirty  thousand  members  of  the  Church  in  Europe 
who,  at  this  time,  without  the  missionaries  and  in  their  greatest 
trials, — need  our  faith  and  prayers.  I  feel  grateful  for  the  privilege 
of  laboring  among  those  fine  German  Saints  whom  we  all  learned 
to  love.  It  was  also  a  privilege  to  be  able  to  associate  with  those 
noble  missionaries  in  the  West  German  Mission.  I  am  sure  that 
these  Elders  will  never  forget  their  many  experiences  in  that  coun- 
try, and  also  in  getting  out  of  it.  When  times  are  hard  you  find  that 
you  are  not  very  strong  yourself  and  you  learn  to  rely  almost  entirely 
upon  the  Lord  to  guide  you. 

If  the  German  Missions  had  to  be  closed,  if  the  world  had  to 
be  the  scene  of  so  much  trouble  and  care,  I  feel  that  it  was  indeed 
a  privilege  to  be  chosen  to  be  there  at  that  time,  and  to  try  to  lighten 
the  burdens  of  the  Saints.  Because  the  time  is  short  I  shall  confine 
my  talk  to  relating  a  few  missionary  experiences  during  the  evacua- 
tion of  the  country  prior  to  the  Polish  war. 

On  Friday,  the  25th  of  August,  my  wife  and  I  were  traveling  in 
the  company  of  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  and  Sister  Smith  in 
Northern  Germany,  after  coming  into  the  country  from  Denmark. 
Friday  morning  we  received  a  telegram  from  the  First  Presidency, 
which  was  relayed  from  our  office  in  Frankfurt  to  Hanover,  telling 
us  that  we  should  immediately  evacuate  Germany.  We  were  told 
to  take  our  missionaries  and  go  either  to  Holland  or  to  Denmark. 
We  were  then  six  hours  from  our  Mission  headquarters. 

I  said  to  Brother  Smith :   "My  wife  and  I  should  be  in  Frank- 


*See  remarks  by  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  page  82. 


78  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  6  Second  Day 

furt.  There  are  so  many  things  to  do.  Things  are  beginning  to 
happen  so  fast,  you  see  here  iu  Hanover  the  women  are  already  driv- 
ing the  street  cars,  and  I  have  never  seen  so  much  real  excitement. 
I  am  afraid  we  must  work  fast,  and  we  should  be  in  Frankfurt." 

I  went  to  the  hotel  clerk  and  told  him  to  get  me  reservations  on 
the  plane  to  fly  to  Frankfurt.  He  looked  at  me  and  said :  "Those 
reservations,  I  am  sure,  have  been  gone  for  some  time.  Frankfurt 
is  on  the  main  European  line  and  all  reservations  on  that  line  are 
reserved  two  weeks  ahead.  Now  with  this  Polish  trouble  I  am  sure 
that  you  could  not  buy  a  ticket  for  any  consideration." 

I  said :  "Call  them  up  anyway.  Call  the  airport.  We  must 
have  two  reservations." 

He  scratched  his  head  after  he  called  and  said,  "There  are  two 
left." 

I  said :   "That  is  all  that  we  need,  and  thank  you  so  much." 

In  an  hour  and  twenty  minutes  we  were  in  Frankfurt.  We  flew 
with  the  last  airplane  over  that  line  of  passenger  service.  The  plane 
was  taken  off  at  Frankfurt  and  sent  to  the  Polish  front.  As  we  flew 
over  that  beautiful  country  we  could  not  help  but  admire  the  beauty 
of  the  scenery  of  the  country  below  and  we  reflected  what  a  won- 
derful thing  the  plane  was  when  it  carried  people  so  rapidly,  and 
what  a  shame  to  destroy  property  and  life  with  it.  At  home  we 
immediately  sent  telegrams  to  all  our  Elders  telling  them  to  pack 
their  trunks  and  take  them  with  them  that  night  into  Holland.  We 
had  called  the  Dutch  consul  for  permission  to  enter  Holland  again 
and  had  received  it.  We  decided  on  Holland  as  it  was  closer  to  most 
of  our  missionaries.  We  had  85  missionaries  scattered  from  the 
Danish  border  on  the  north  to  Vienna  on  the  south,  which  is  quite 
a  big  territory.  Things  were  getting  exciting.  The  German  people 
couldn't  say  much,  but  the  feeling  of  unrest  and  impending  trouble 
was  everywhere  present. 

We  had  never  imagined  the  excitement  would  be  like  it  was. 
There  was  none  of  it  present  the  previous  year  when  we  went  out  of 
the  country.  Everything  was  tightening  up  all  over.  We  had 
always  felt  that  it  would  not  be  such  a  job  to  evacuate  the  country, 
especially  after  the  "fire  drill"  of  a  year  ago.  We  figured  that  we 
could  always  use  the  public  utilities,  but  everybody  else  figured  the 
same  thing  at  this  time.  It  took  a  little  time  to  get  the  telegrams  off 
to  our  Elders.  We  had  also  informed  them  to  telegraph  the  office,  or 
telephone,  as  they  left,  so  that  we  could  check  on  all  of  them. 

Friday  afternoon  and  evening  we  sat  in  the  office  receiving  no 
telegrams  or  telephone  calls  at  all.  We  wondered  if  the  missionaries 
had  received  our  messages.  We  tried  to  telephone  to  a  few  of  them 
in  order  to  check  up  on  the  telegrams,  but  were  unable  to  get  anyone 
on  the  telephone.  Everyone  else  had  the  same  idea,  and  the  tele- 
phone wires  were  clogged.  We  tried  to  send  more  telegrams  and  were 
told  that  temporarily  all  the  chances  for  sending  telegrams  any- 
where were  closed. 


ELDER  M.  DOUGLAS  WOOD 


79 


Early  that  morning,  (Saturday),  one  of  the  Elders  called  us  by 
telephone  from  the  Dutch  border.  He  said :  "President  Wood,  we 
have  been  here  on  the  Dutch  border  for  six  hours  and  the  Dutch  will 
not  let  us  in.  We  haven't  a  dime  between  us.  What  shall  we  do  ?" 
A  person  cannot  leave  Germany  with  any  money  because  there  is 
controlled  currency  there.  The  Dutch  had  given  us  permission  to 
enter,  but  things  had  happened  so  fast  that  the  consul  in  Frankfurt 
did  not  know  of  the  new  arrangements  until  we  told  him.  The  Dutch 
remembered  the  last  war  and  the  lack  of  food  in  their  country,  and 
they  were  determined  to  have  no  foreigners  there  at  all. 

I  said,  "Brother,  if  you  will  have  faith,  I  will  see  that  we  get 
some  money  to  you  immediately." 

We  telegraphed  money  to  those  Elders,  and  within  five  minutes 
after  we  had  done  so  the  operator  called  us  and  said :  "We  will  not 
be  able  to  take  any  more  money  by  telegraph;  however,  I  think  I 
can  get  this  last  through." 

About  that  time  a  radio  announcement  was  made  by  the  gov- 
ernment, that  after  Sunday  night  at  midnight,  August  27th,  the  Ger- 
man government  would  not  guarantee  anyone  his  destination  on  the 
German  railways.  I  shall  never  forget  our  feelings  at  that  time. 
We  had  no  telegraph  nor  telephone  facilities,  and  railways  were  not 
available  to  us.  We  were  not  able  to  contact  our  missionaries,  and 
we  knew  that  most  of  them  would  be  heading  toward  Holland.  We 
knew  they  would  arrive  there  without  enough  money  to  buy  tickets 
to  Denmark,  and  we  knew  that  time  was  against  us,  with  the  rail- 
roads all  being  used  for  troop  transportation.  If  ever  we  knew  that 
we  could  do  nothing  of  ourselves  we  were  sure  of  it  then.  One  of  the 
girls  took  out  our  Mission  history  and  read  how  the  missionaries 
during  the  last  war  got  out  of  the  country.  One  of  the  Elders  was 
not  able  to  get  out  during  the  war  and  a  few  of  our  missionaries  had 
to  crawl  on  their  hands  and  knees  and  make  their  way  out  behind 
the  Russian  lines.  We  knew  these  things  and  we  knew  the  intense 
feeling  of  the  parents  at  home.  We  knew  that  each  one  of  you  was 
relying  upon  us  to  see  that  your  son  was  safe.  Conditions  were  so 
unsettled  there.  We  had  seen  the  treatment  of  the  Jews  and  we  felt 
that  we  must  do  all  in  our  power  to  see  that  those  missionaries  were 
safe.  We  also  knew  that  we  would  be  helped.  Every  mother  and 
father  in  America  was  praying  for  their  missionary  sons,  and  we 
knew  that  the  Lord  would  help  us  if  we  did  all  we  could. 

About  that  time  a  big  football  player  came  into  our  office,  a 
fine  Idaho  boy,  who  weighed  over  200  pounds. 

I  said :   "Brother,  did  you  ever  carry  a  message  to  Garcia?" 

He  said :  "No,  I  didn't,  but  I'm  willing  to  try." 

I  said:  "Elder,  we  have  31  missionaries  lost  somewhere  be- 
tween here  and  the  Dutch  border.  It  will  be  your  mission  to  find 
them  and  see  that  they  get  out." 

He  set  out  for  the  Dutch  border  with  500  marks  and  tickets  for 
Denmark  and  for  London.   We  had  heard  that  a  few  might  be  able 


80  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturdag.  April  6  Second  Dag 

to  get  into  Holland  if  they  had  tickets  for  London.  That  was  soon 
changed.  After  four  hours  on  the  train  he  arrived  at  Cologne,  which 
is  about  half  way  to  the  Dutch  border.  We  had  told  him  to  follow  his 
impressions  entirely  as  we  had  no  idea  what  towns  these  31  Elders 
would  be  in.  Cologne  was  not  his  destination,  but  he  felt  impressed 
to  get  off  the  train  there.  It  is  a  very  large  station,  and  was  then 
filled  with  thousands  of  people.  The  call  to  arms  had  been  given  that 
day,  and  there  were  thousands  of  people  going  to  the  Polish  border. 
There  were  many,  many  students  returning  to  England,  and  many 
people  returning  from  vacations  before  the  train  service  stopped. 
There  were  so  many  people  in  the  station  that  to  find  anyone  there 
would  have  been  next  to  impossible.  This  Elder  stepped  into  this 
station  and  whistled  our  missionary  whistle — "Do  What  is  Right,  Let 
the  Consequence  Follow." 

Down  in  one  corner  of  that  station  was  an  Elder  with  an  old 
couple  who  were  also  on  a  mission  from  America.  They  heard 
that  call,  and  made  their  way  safely  to  the  train  and  were  able  to  get 
into  Holland  with  tickets  for  London.  These  three  were  stranded 
there.  They  couldn't  call  the  office,  as  no  more  calls  on  telephones 
were  accepted,  and  they  had  had  nothing  to  eat  all  day. 

At  another  border  station  going  into  Holland  this  Elder  arrived, 
after  picking  up  missionaries  along  the  way.  As  he  rode  along  on 
the  train  he  felt  impressed  at  other  stations  to  get  out  and  whistle 
our  call.  At  some  stations  he  felt  no  impression  at  all,  so  he  did  not 
get  out.  At  the  border  he  found  eight  missionaries  who  had  been 
locked  in  the  station  house  all  night.  They  were  indeed  glad  to 
see  the  missionary  from  the  office  with  tickets  for  Denmark,  and 
money.  A  border  officer  stepped  up  and  asked  him  how  much 
money  he  had.   He  told  him  500  marks. 

He  said  to  the  Elder  :  "Give  me  that  money/' 

The  missionary  answered :  "I  will  over  my  dead  body.  I  was 
sent  here  to  relieve  these  missionaries,  and  I  will  not  give  up  the 
money."  Just  at  that  time  a  man  in  the  other  corner  of  the  station 
was  arrested  for  being  a  spy.  Now  a  spy  on  a  border  is  really  some- 
thing important  at  war-time,  and  he  attracted  everybody's  attention. 
The  moment  the  officer  turned,  the  Elders  stooped  down  and  made 
their  way  out  of  the  station  and  out  to  the  train.  By  this  time  the 
trains  had  stopped  running  regularly.  These  missionaries  got  on 
to  unscheduled  trains,  traveled  for  fifteen  or  twenty  minutes,  and 
then  they  would  get  out  at  the  next  station.  There  they  would  stand 
until  they  felt  impressed  to  get  on  another  train.  They  had  to  trans- 
fer seventeen  times  on  a  route  that  regularly  requires  no  more  than 
two  or  three  transfers  before  reaching  Denmark. 

At  another  station  three  of  our  Elders  were  walking  along  the 
street.  They  were  fortunate  enough  not  to  be  locked  up.  A  man 
came  up  to  them  and  stated  that  he  had  seen  them  before,  saying  that 
he  knew  that  they  were  Mormon  missionaries.  He  said  that  he  had 
been  called  to  the  Polish  front  and  had  50  marks  which  he  knew  he 


ELDER  M.  DOUGLAS  WOOD 


81 


would  not  need  and  asked  if  they  could  use  this  money.  They  were 
without  a  penny,  so  they  took  it.  This  amount  paid  their  way  back 
to  the  little  town  where  they  had  come  from  the  day  before. 

One  of  the  Elders  had  received  his  allowance  from  home  the 
day  before.  All  the  other  Elders  had  used  their  surplus  money  to 
buy  photographic  equipment  which  could  be  taken  out  of  the  coun- 
try. This  young  man  went  to  town  but  felt  so  bad  about  everything 
he  just  couldn't  spend  that  money,  so  he  put  it  into  a  drawer  and 
said  for  his  landlady  to  give  it  to  the  poor  Saints  if  he  did  not  come 
back.  He  did  come  back,  however.  The  train  had  a  ten-minute  wait, 
and  he  ran  up  to  the  dwelling,  got  that  money,  and  it  was  just  enough, 
within  a  few  pennies  for  food,  to  pay  their  way  to  Copenhagen,  Den- 
mark. 

We  arrived  in  Denmark  early  Monday  morning  with  21  mission- 
aries in  our  group.  That  morning  we  received  a  telegram  from  Presi- 
dent Murdock  saying  14  of  our  group  had  arrived  in  The  Hague.  We 
now  had  only  17  to  worry  about.  About  two  o'clock  that  afternoon 
we  received  a  telegram  from  the  football  player  saying  seventeen  of 
them  were  arriving  that  night  at  7 :30. 

My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  these  things  I  have  told  you  today 
are  true  stories  of  our  experiences  in  getting  out  of  the  country. 
They  are  testimonies  that  I  am  sure  will  remain  with  these  mission- 
aries all  their  lives.  Almost  every  one  of  our  Elders  could  tell  you  a 
real  faith-stirring  story  about  his  leaving  Germany.  We  all  arrived 
in  Denmark  with  our  hearts  filled  with  gratitude  and  humility.  One 
of  our  Elders  was  asked  if  he  was  a  bit  anxious  about  going  home 
on  a  freighter  and  being  led  out  of  Denmark  by  a  German  pilot 
through  the  mines. 

He  said:  "That  is  child's  play  after  the  things  we  have  been 
through  in  getting  out  of  Germany.  I  don't  think  after  all  the  trou- 
ble the  Lord  went  to  there  that  He  is  going  to  let  us  down  in  the 
middle  of  the  ocean." 

I  am  grateful  for  this  opportunity  to  bear  you  my  testimony.  I 
know  that  this  is  the  true  Church  of  God,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and 
that  today  Heber  J.  Grant  is  a  prophet  of  our  Father  in  heaven.  I 
am  happy  to  have  had  this  opportunity  of  working  in  Germany 
among  the  German  people.  I  am  happy  to  have  had  the  privilege 
of  being  there  during  those  hard  times.  The  Lord  stood  at  our  side 
and  never  once  did  we  want  or  were  we  unable  to  meet  the  situa- 
tions at  hand  with  His  help. 

We  were  called  to  go  to  Sweden  and  assist  in  closing  the  Mis- 
sion there.  I  shall  never  forget  the  sights  there.  We  have  preached 
the  Gospel  in  Europe  for  over  100  years,  and  this  is  the  first  time 
that  all  the  missionaries  have  left.  We  thought  that  after  our  ex- 
periences in  Germany  we  did  not  have  any  more  tears  left,  our 
hearts  were  so  sorrowful  that  we  thought  there  was  no  more  room 
for  grief.  One  does  not  have  to  understand  a  language  to  under- 
stand those  things.    Those  poor  Swedish  Saints!    About  150  of  them 


82  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Dap 

gathered  at  the  station  to  say  "goodbye"  to  their  missionaries. 
The  wonderful  trained  chorus  developed  under  the  direction  of 
Brother  and  Sister  Larsen  sang  to  the  Saints  there.  They  placed 
garlands  of  flowers  on  each  missionary's  neck  and  as  the  train  pulled 
out,  the  Saints  sang  back  to  them,  "God  be  with  You  Till  we  Meet 
Again."  I  just  cannot  tell  you  how  we  all  felt. 

Those  Saints  will  carry  on  in  Europe.  I  ask  you  to  please  re- 
member them  in  your  prayers  at  this  time.  Without  missionaries 
and  in  their  time  of  greatest  trouble,  they  need  our  faith  and  love. 
May  we  be  generous  in  our  judgments  and  tolerant  toward  all  God's 
children,  here  in  safety,  in  luxury,  in  our  homes  in  the  Land  of  the 
Free,  is  my  humble  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 


The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "And  the  Glory  of  the 
Lord,"  (Handel). 

Elder  Walter  A.  Jensen,  President  of  the  Lost  River  Stake, 
offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

Saturday  afternoon,  April  6. 

As  the  time  approached  for  commencing  this  session  of  the 
Conference,  a  great  body  of  people  had  assembled  to  worship  the 
Lord,  every  seat  and  available  space  in  the  great  Tabernacle  audi- 
torium and  galleries  being  occupied. 

President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  called  the  meeting  to  order 
promptly  at  2  o'clock,  and  announced  that  the  Ricks  College  Choir, 
John  M.  Anderson,  director,  would  furnish  the  music  for  this  meet- 
ing. Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 

The  congregation  and  the  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"The  Spirit  of  God  Like  a  Fire  is  Burning." 

Elder  Arthur  V.  Watkins,  President  of  the  Sharon  Stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  "Send  Out  Thy  Light,"  (Gou- 
nod). ' 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency  - 

When  I  announced  the  voting  this  morning  on  the  First  Presi- 
dency I  announced  one  dissenting  vote.  I  am  now  informed  that  that 
dissenting  vote  was  cast  by  an  excommunicant  who  had  no  right  to 
vote,  and  therefore  the  voting  was  unanimous. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


83 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  trust  that  I  may  enjoy  the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  in  what  I 
may  say  this  afternoon.  My  soul  has  been  stirred  during  the  meetings 
of  this  Conference.  I  have  rejoiced  at  the  remarks  of  my  brethren,  the 
sweet  singing  and  the  tones  of  the  great  organ. 

In  no  other  place  in  the  world  can  you  witness  a  sight  such  as  we  see 
on  this  Temple  Block  today.  The  weather  has  been  delightful,  the  new 
vegetation  is  coming  on,  the  flowers  are  in  bloom  and  we  have  a  rare 
garden  of  youth  at  the  back  of  us  in  this  choir  loft. 

I  feel  as  I  look  into  the  faces  of  the  men  who  have  been  forced  to 
return  from  our  foreign  missions  (due  to  the  unwisdom  of  some  of 
our  Father's  children  in  those  lands)  that  I  am  glad  they  are  at  home. 
We  have  done  a  great  deal  of  missionary  work  in  Europe  during  the  past 
one  hundred  years.  I  do  not  know  whether  the  Lord  has  now  decided 
to  have  us  do  more  of  our  missionary  work  in  other  places  where  people 
have  not  yet  had  an  opportunity  to  hear  the  Gospel.  We  have  had  thou- 
sands of  missionaries  in  Europe  and  many  people  have  had  opportunity 
to  hear  the  truth,  as  they  have  in  the  United  States  of  America.  Our 
Heavenly  Father  has  said  that  He  will  not  be  mocked,  and  there  will  come 
a  time  when  disaster  will  overtake  the  unrepentant  sinner. 

BELIEF  IN  A  GOD  OF  MIRACLES  NECESSARY 

Some  time  ago  I  had  a  man  ask  me  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  believed 
in  Jesus  Christ.  I  probably  would  have  been  shocked,  but  that  was  not 
the  first  time  I  have  had  that  question  asked.  Even  with  the  radio  and 
our  modern  means  of  transportation,  there  are  thousands  of  our  Father's 
children  in  the  world  who  do  not  know  what  we  believe.  They  do  not 
know  that  we  worship  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob,  the  same 
Heavenly  Father  who  preserved  the  Children  of  Israel  in  their  flight  from 
Egypt  when  Pharaoh's  hosts  were  drowned  in  the  sea.  They  do  not 
know  that  we  pray  to  the  same  God  that  was  worshipped  by  Israel  while 
they  were  traveling  from  Egypt  to  the  promised  land.  He  was  a  God  of 
miracles.  Feeding  the  Children  of  Israel  with  manna  was  a  simple  opera- 
tion for  Him  to  perform.  In  His  own  way  He  has  supplied  food  for 
His  children  always.  He  provided  food  for  the  Latter-day  Saints  when 
they  came  to  this  then  wilderness  and  has  fed  us  ever  since,  many  times 
miraculously. 

We  believe  in  the  God  who  counseled  the  people,  through  Moses,  and 
led  them  to  their  destination.  Upon  one  occasion  when  Moses  announced 
a  policy  some  of  the  prominent  men  of  the  camp  refused  to  conform  to 
his  advice  and  rebelled.  They  said :  "We  hold  the  Priesthood  just  the 
same  as  you  do."  They  seemed  not  to  realize  that  it  was  the  Lord's  advice 
they  were  ignoring  and  not  Moses !  But  the  result  was  that  while  they 
were  still  defiant  the  earth  opened  and  they  were  swallowed  up  in  its 
depths. 


84  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  .  Second  Dag 

Another  group  of  the  same  camp  criticized  Moses  for  what  had 
occurred  and  a  plague  broke  out  among  them  and  thousands  of  them  died 
before  it  was  stayed  by  the  power  of  the  Lord. 

We  believe  in  that  God  who  not  only  teaches  us  what  we  should  do. 
but  permits  destruction  to  come  upon  us  when  we  violate  His  laws. 

I  am  thinking  as  I  stand  here  of  the  experience  of  the  three  Hebrew 
Children  who  passed  through  the  fiery  furnace  and  lived.  That  was  a 
miracle  wrought  by  the  Lord  in  that  day,  as  was  the  preservation  of 
Daniel  when  he  was  cast  into  the  den  of  hungry  lions. 

You  remember  also  the  experience  of  those  who  came  to  America 
from  the  tower  of  Babel  at  the  time  of  the  confusion  of  tongues.  Some 
of  them  pleaded  with  the  Lord  that  they  might  retain  their  own  language 
and  they  brought  it  with  them  to  this  country  under  the  direction  of  this 
same  Heavenly  Father ;  and  later  they,  because  of  their  failure  to  do  what 
they  should,  lost  their  identity  upon  the  land  and  were  destroyed. 

The  same  Heavenly  Father  directed  Lehi  to  bring  his  people  to  this 
country  and  marvelously  preserved  them,  giving  them  an  instrument  called 
the  Liahona  whereby  they  could  tell  which  direction  they  were  going,  and 
it  worked  only  when  they  kept  the  commandments  of  God.  That  is  the  way 
the  inspiration  of  the  Almighty  works  with  you ;  it  is  when  you  keep  His 
commandments  and  not  otherwise.  If  we  are  worthy  of  it  He  never  fails 
to  give  it  to  us. 

THE  LOVE  OF  GOD  THE  SAME  IN  ALL  AGES 

Think  of  the  things  that  have  happened  in  the  world  during  past 
centuries.  Loving  all  His  children  our  Lord  has  tried  to  have  His  truth 
so  disseminated  that  His  children  would  accept  it  and,  remarkable  as  it 
may  seem,  those  who  believed  in  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and  Jacob 
and  obeyed  Him  have  become  the  foremost  nations  of  the  world. 

In  the  Meridian  of  Time  His  only  Begotten  Son  in  the  flesh  was 
born.  He  turned  water  into  wine  and  performed  other  miracles.  He  was 
cruelly  slain,  but  was  resurrected,  and  demonstrated  that  he  still  had  a 
body  of  flesh  and  bones.  He  partook  of  fish  and  honeycomb  with  His 
disciples  and  visited  them  repeatedly  as  a  resurrected  being.  He  gave 
His  life,  making  it  possible  for  all  mankind  to  be  raised  from  the  dead. 

America  has  been  greatly  blessed.  I  wonder  if  we  appreciate  how 
much  the  Lord  has  favored  us.  Our  Heavenly  Father  told  the  Jaredites 
who  came  here  from  the  Tower  of  Babel,  and  later  told  Lehi  and  his 
people  that  this  was  a  land  choice  above  all  other  lands,  and  if  they  kept 
His  commandments  they  should  prosper  upon  the  land.  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
came  to  visit  the  Western  Hemisphere  after  His  resurrection  from  the 
dead.  He  taught  the  people  many  truths  and  His  teachings  were  so  effec- 
tive that  for  two  hundred  years  they  who  dwelt  upon  this  land  were  a 
righteous  people. 

And  again,  even  in  our  day,  the  Savior  of  the  world  and  His  Father 
appeared  to  the  youth  Joseph  Smith  in  their  immortal  glorified  bodies 
and  renewed  to  the  world  the  knowledge  of  a  personal  God. 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH 


85 


We  accept  what  the  Bible  teaches  with  reference  to  God  the  Father 
and  Jesus  Christ,  His  Son,  and  what  the  Book  of  Mormon  teaches  with 
reference  to  the  same  Godhead.  We  believe  that  in  our  own  time  they 
have  again  appeared,  so  that  all  doubts  as  to  their  existence  has  been  re- 
moved. We  believe  that  the  Father  and  the  Son  came  after  they  had 
prepared  the  way  for  the  organization  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  here 
in  America. 

Just  think  of  the  coming  of  the  Pilgrim  fathers  to  this  land,  and 
how  the  Lord  preserved  them  and  made  it  possible  for  them  to  extend 
their  power  when  the  United  States  was  born.  Think  of  how  He  blessed 
and  raised  up  the  very  men  who  prepared  the  Constitution  of  the  United 
States. 

All  down  through  the  ages  this  same  kind  Father  has  been  working 
with  His  children  and  in  this,  the  fulness  of  times,  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord 
came  and  directed  the  organization  of  this  Church  and  said  that  it  should 
be  called  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  Church  was  organized  in  1830  and  began  to  grow  rapidly.  But 
the  adversary  sought  to  impede  its  progress  by  falsehood,  mobbing,  mur- 
dering, and  driving  its  members  repeatedly.  Finally  the  Church  built  the 
City  of  Nauvoo,  the  largest  then  in  the  State  of  Illinois.  The  organization 
was  completed ;  the  Temple  was  built ;  Joseph  the  Prophet  had  finished  his 
work  and  been  martyred.  The  time  had  come  for  the  people  to  cross  the 
Plains  and  establish  themselves  in  the  Rocky  Mountains.  It  was  the  Lord's 
way.  They  had  finished  their  work  back  there.  They  were  driven  again, 
this  time  far  from  so-called  civilization.  Our  Heavenly  Father  preserved 
them.  They  were  fed  quails  even  as  Israel  was  fed  manna.  They  were 
led  by  the  same  God  that  led  Israel  and  began  the  civilized  settlement  of 
this  western  land  under  His  guidance. 

When  they  came  into  the  valley  and  planted  crops,  crickets  swarmed 
down  to  devour  them.  Starvation  threatened  the  faithful  outcasts,  but 
the  God  of  Israel  intervened  and  sent  the  seagulls  to  destroy  the  crickets 
and  the  harvest  was  saved.  The  people  had  been  preserved  by  a  miracle. 

The  waters  in  these  valleys  have  been  increased  unto  the  people  as  the 
necessities  required  to  mature  crops,  and  the  community  has  acknowledged 
God  as  the  source  of  the  gift. 

Missionaries  have  been  sent  to  the  four  corners  of  the  earth  by  this 
Church  and  they  have  proclaimed  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  Many  have 
not  had  training  in  the  great  universities  of  the  world.  Their  education 
has  been  largely  limited  to  the  practical  experiences  of  life,  but  they  have 
had  what  is  more  potent  in  inspiring  the  human  family,  the  companion- 
ship of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

THE  ADVERSARY  OPPOSES  THE  LEADERS  OF  GOD'S  WORK 

All  down  through  the  centuries  that  are  past  there  have  been  those 
who  have  opposed  the  leaders  appointed  by  the  Lord.  They  defied  Moses 
and  were  destroyed.  They  crucified  Jesus  of  Nazareth,  and  disappeared 
from  the  world,  while  His  name  illumines  the  pages  of  all  history.  They 
cried  out  against  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet,  and  sought  his  death  and 


86  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Dag 

succeeded  in  destroying  his  mortal  life,  but  his  name  will  go  ringing  down 
through  the  ages  as  a  man  who  tried  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God 
and  teach  His  Truth,  while  the  names  of  his  murderers  are  held  in  derision 
or  have  been  blotted  out  as  God  said  they  would. 

President  Young  had  many  annoyances  and  distresses  come  to  him. 
The  greatest  pioneer  leader  the  United  States  has  seen  was  hated  by 
misguided  people  because  he  led  the  Church  when  Joseph  was  martyred. 
Not  only  did  he  have  the  wisdom  of  man,  but  the  inspiration  of  the  Al- 
mighty. There  were  those  who  sought  his  life  and  would  have  taken  it 
if  they  had  had  opportunity.  He  was  charged  with  evil  and  there  were 
those  who  persisted  in  following  him  and  annoying  him,  and  why? 
Because  he  was  a  servant  of  the  Lord  and  all  of  the  Presidents  of  this 
Church  have  been  criticized  by  those  who  abused  and  hated  them.  The 
adversary  of  all  righteousness  is  not  satisfied  to  let  the  man  who  stands 
at  the  head  of  a  great  dispensation  go  unscathed.  He  works  with  men, 
not  men  who  have  unusual  intelligence,  but  ordinary  men,  exceedingly 
ordinary  men  in  most  cases,  and  he  puts  evil  into  their  hearts  and  into 
their  minds. 

Think  of  the  way  they  abused  President  Joseph  F.  Smith.  Our  daily 
newspapers  here  at  one  time  were  full  of  scurrilous  articles,  falsehoods. 
He  was  charged  with  things  that  were  absolutely  untrue.  Why  ?  Because 
he  was  the  representative  of  God  upon  the  earth. 

THE  LORD'S  WAYS  ARE  DIFFERENT  FROM  MAN'S 

And  so  it  has  been  down  to  our  day.  There  are  among  us  today  some 
misguided  men.  I  have  no  anger  in  my  heart  for  them.  I  pity  them  be- 
cause they  do  not  know  better.  They  are  finding  fault  with  the  leadership 
of  the  Church,  particularly  the  President  of  the  Church.  And  I  stand 
here  to  say  that  no  President  that  we  have  had  has  been  more  loyal  to  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  than  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  No  President 
that  we  have  had  has  been  more  willing  to  give  his  all  that  the  Truth 
might  be  known  among  the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  yet  there  are  those 
who  are  influenced  by  the  adversary  of  all  righteousness,  who  would  be- 
little him  and  destroy  his  influence.  I  say  unto  you  that  his  name  will 
continue  to  be  held  in  honor  as  a  servant  of  the  living  God,  while  those 
who  traduce  him  and  misrepresent  him  will  disappear  from  the  earth, 
and  the  Lord  has  said  their  sins  will  be  visited  upon  their  children  unless 
they  repent. 

Today  when  I  saw  by  uplifted  hands  of  this  great  congregation  the 
unanimous  vote  sustaining  the  President  of  the  Church  I  was  thrilled. 
You  will  see  nothing  like  it  in  the  world ;  no  other  organization  functions 
as  this  does.  Why  ?  Because  this  is  the  Lord's  Church.  It  is  carried  on 
in  the  Lord's  way ;  it  is  different  from  the  work  of  man.  It  is  not  our 
Church — it  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

How  beautiful  it  is  to  sit  here  in  this  great  house,  apart  from  the 
distresses  that  afflict  mankind,  and  wait  upon  Him  who  is  our  Heavenly 
Father,  the  Father  of  our  spirits.  We  come  into  His  presence  in  this 
house  that  has  been  sanctified  by  the  devotion  of  some  of  the  greatest 


ELDER  GEORGE  ALBERT  SMITH  87 


men  and  women  who  have  ever  lived,  who  have  stood  in  this  stand  and 
proclaimed  the  Truth.  The  Church  continues  to  grow  and  strengthen. 
The  adversary  will  deceive  some  of  those  who  are  members  of  the  Church. 
He  has  done  it  from  the  beginning.  They  have  so  far  misinterpreted  what 
our  Heavenly  Father  desires  that  they  array  themselves  not  against  His 
servants  only  but  against  the  Lord  Himself  and  thus  impede  the  progress 
of  His  work,  for  which  they  will  suffer  the  penalty. 

SAFETY  IN  KEEPING  GOD'S  COMMANDMENTS 

Today  we  have  heard  reports  from  the  mission  fields  of  the  earth, 
mission  fields  that  have  been  closed,  because  many  of  the  people  who  live 
in  those  lands  have  refused  to  keep  the  commandments  of  God,  and  the 
adversary  has  put  into  their  hearts  to  do  the  thing  that  has  brought  war 
into  the  world.  Our  own  nation  may  not  be  free.  The  only  hope  for 
continued  peace  and  prosperity  in  America,  will  be  if  our  people  retain 
their  senses.  When  I  say  our  people  I  mean  American  men  and  women 
who  live  upon  this  land  that  God  said  should  only  be  recognized  as  His 
favored  land  when  people  kept  His  commandments.  God  the  Eternal 
Father  is  our  King;  He  is  our  Law-giver.  President  Grant  is  but  the 
humble  instrument  in  His  hands,  but  he  is  the  instrument,  humble  though 
he  may  be,  with  power  to  tell  us  what  to  do,  and  it  is  well  for  those  who 
desire  a  place  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  to  follow  his  leadership  of  the 
Church.  I  want  to  say  that  just  as  long  as  our  Heavenly  Father  has  sus- 
tained the  Presidents  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
since  its  organization,  those  who  have  followed  their  leadership  have  been 
blessed  and  those  who  have  apostatized  and  transgressed  the  law  have 
lost  their  opportunity  and  their  privilege  and  in  many  cases  it  passed  away 
never  to  return. 

GRATITUDE  FOR  BLESSINGS 

I  stand  here  within  a  few  hundred  yards  of  where  I  was  born.  I  have 
seen  the  towers  of  the  Temple  rise.  I  was  here  when  this  building  was 
decorated  with  festoons  of  paper  flowers  by  the  people.  I  was  here  when 
the  organ  was  completed.  I  have  lived  here  in  this  city  to  see  it  grow 
from  a  village  to  one  of  the  most  notable  cities  in  the  world.  And  I  want 
to  say  that  every  man  and  every  woman  who  has  lived  here  and  has  kept 
the  commandments  of  God  has  had  an  assurance  that  this  is  our  Father's 
work  which  bears  the  name  of  His  Beloved  Son. 

And  so  today  ought  I  not  to  be  grateful,  as  I  look  at  these  fine  young 
people  and  think  of  the  opportunities  that  have  come  to  them  in  our  north- 
ern State,  Idaho,  and  elsewhere,  and  realize  that  there  are  thousands  of 
others  who  are  being  similarly  trained  and  blessed?  My  heart  is  filled 
with  gratitude  to  God  that  I  was  born  in  this  age,  that  my  loved  ones 
have  had  opportunity  to  partake  of  these  blessings  that  come  only  from 
the  Father  of  us  all,  and  they  will  be  eternal  if  we  will  be  faithful. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  may  be  in  your  hearts  and  in  your 
homes.  Attend  to  your  prayers.  Pray  to  Him  who  is  the  Author  of  your 
being.   Do  not  be  misled  by  the  sophistries  of  men  and  the  foolishness 


88  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

of  those  that  imagine  things  that  are  vain,  but  know  this,  that  it  is 
your  privilege,  it  is  within  your  power  to  know  not  only  today  and  to- 
morrow, but  every  day,  that  God  is  God,  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  was  a  prophet,  and  that  the  leader  of  this  Church  is  the  repre- 
sentative of  God  upon  the  earth.  You  will  know  that  only  when  you  are 
keeping  the  commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Now  let  us  unite  together  always,  as  we  have,  in  prayer  and  thanks- 
giving here  today.  Let  us  appreciate  the  blessings  of  our  lives  and  set 
our  own  homes  in  order  so  that  they  will  be  sanctuaries  to  our  own  boys 
and  girls  and  those  who  come  there  as  strangers.  Let  the  light  of  peace 
and  love  abound  with  us,  that  every  soul  we  contact  will  be  richer  because 
of  us.   That  is  our  privilege. 

God  grant  that  we  may  continue  to  worship  the  God  of  Abraham, 
Isaac,  and  Jacob  in  honor  through  His  beloved  Son  Jesus  Christ,  to  the 
end  that  we  may  gain  exaltation  in  the  Celestial  Kingdom  when  our  life's 
labors  are  completed,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  His  beloved  Son 
Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

On  Wednesday,  of  this  week,  President  Heber  J.  Grant  gra- 
ciously permitted  me  the  privilege  of  visiting  him  for  a  few  moments. 
Our'beloyed  President  is  rapidly  mending  in  health.  He  loves  his 
people. 

A  SPECIAL  APPOINTMENT 

A  little  over  a  month  ago  I  was  honored  by  the  First  Presidency 
and  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  with  an  appointment  to  visit  the  Oahu 
Stake  and  the  Hawaiian  Mission  and  the  Japanese  Mission  in  Ha- 
waii. It  was  one  of  the  finest  missionary  journeys  I  have  ever  had. 
The  Islands  are  noted  for  their  surpassing  beauty  and  every  island 
is  covered  with  creation  and  life. 

The  Conference  was  blessed  by  the  Lord.  There  was  a  very 
large  attendance.  The  Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church,  LeGrand 
Richards,  made  a  notable  contribution  to  the  success  of  that  im- 
portant gathering.  President  Ralph  E.  Woolley  and  his  talented 
wife,  Romania,  are  doing  a  splendid  work  in  that  distant  outpost 
of  the  Church,  and  the  Mission  Presidents  with  their  faithful  wives 
are  laboring  with  zeal  to  advance  the  work  of  God.  It  rejoiced  my 
heart  to  see  your  sons  and  daughters  in  that  Mission  preaching  the 
restored  Gospel  in  the  spirit  of  piety  and  with  unwavering  faith  in 
God.  They  love  the  people — the  Hawaiians,  Japanese,  Chinese, 
Portugese,  Samoans  and  Filipinos.  The  missionaries  love  these  peo- 
ple with  the  love  of  Christ  and  verily  that  love  is  mutual. 

EARLY  MISSIONARY  WORK  IN  HAWAII 


In  one  of  our  great  hymns  there  is  a  line  like  this :  "Mingling 


ELDER  CHARLES  A.  CALLIS 


89 


with  Gods  he  can  plan  for  his  brethren."  That  refers,  as  you  well 
know,  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that 
Joseph  Smith  interceded  with  the  Powers  on  high  for  the  Gospel  to 
be  sent  to  the  people  of  those  Islands,  and  God  sent  forth  His  light. 
George  Q.  Cannon,  Joseph  F.  Smith,  Lorenzo  Snow — these  men 
were  sent  forth  by  the  Lord  and  upon  the  lips  of  these  soldiers  of 
the  Cross  the  word  of  God  was  mighty.  There  were  other  stalwarts 
sent  forth  and  they  did  a  remarkable  work. 

We  see  but  half  the  causes  of  our  deeds, 
Seeking  them  wholly  in  the  outer  life 

And  heedless  of  the  encircling  spirit  world 

Which,  though  unseen,  is  felt,  and  sows  in  us 

All  germs  of  pure  and  world-wide  purpose. 

THE  POWER  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 

God  turned  His  countenance  towards  that  people  and,  as  their 
fathers  were  worthy  to  receive  the  Gospel  of  Christ,  so  these  humble 
and  Christ-like  children  of  God  were  deemed  worthy  of  having 
preached  to  them  the  restored  Gospel.  As  I  looked  upon  those 
people  and  preached  to  them,  people  of  different  nationalities,  the 
thought  came  to  me,  some  men  appeal  to  certain  people,  other  men 
to  other  people,  but  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  appeals  to  all  men.  His 
voice  is  the  authoritative  voice  that  is  sounding  in  the  hearts  of 
men  and  women  today.  In  the  pre-existent  state  when  the  sons 
of  God  shouted  for  joy  it  is  my  firm  belief  that  Jesus  Christ  was  the 
only  one  who  was  willing  to  pay  the  price  for  the  redemption  of  the 
children  of  God.   Blessed  be  His  holy  name  forever. 

A  VISIT  TO  THE  ISLAND  OF  M0LOKAI 

Before  I  left  the  Islands  I  felt  a  strong  urge  to  visit  those  strick- 
en people — the  lepers — on  the  Island  of  Molokai.  The  only  way  to 
reach  that  place  then  was  by  airplane.  I  had  never  been  in  one  of 
these  machines  but  my  wife,  who  accompanied  me,  urged  me  to  try 
the  plane.  I  did,  and  I  believe  God  took  the  fear  out  of  my  heart.  As 
we  were  passing  over  the  Pacific  from  one  island  to  another,  the 
pilot  pointed  downward  and  there  in  the  blue  depths  of  the  Pacific 
was  a  school  of  whales  disporting  themselves.  When  we  arrived 
on  the  island  a  delegation  of  those  afflicted  people  was  there  to  wel- 
come us  with  songs.  The  officer  said  to  me  as  I  approached  them 
"Go  no  closer."   President  Cox  and  his  wife  were  with  us." 

We  met  with  those  afflicted  people — afflicted  only  in  body — in 
our  meeting  house.  Irrespective  of  creed  they  came  to  the  services. 
I  spoke  to  them  about  the  resurrection  and  of  the  love  God  had  for 
them,  and  in  the  course  of  my  address  I  quoted  the  immortal  words 
of  Jesus,  which  should  ring  in  the  hearts  of  every  man  and  woman 
in  the  world :  "Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least 
of  these,  my  brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

At  the  close  of  my  remarks  a  brother,  who  was  presiding  over 
the  meeting,  the  Justice  of  the  Peace,  himself  a  leper,  arose  and  made 


90  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

a  response  which  for  eloquence  I  have  never  heard  surpassed.  It 
was  the  eloquence  that  comes  from  the  heart,  not  from  the  lips. 
He  said,  "Apostle  Callis,  we  could  not  go  to  Honolulu  to  attend  that 
big  Conference,  but  you  have  come  to  us  and  you  have  fed  us ;  you 
have  come  to  the  least  of  your  brethren,  and  inasmuch  as  you  have 
done  it  unto  us,  you  have  done  it  unto  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ."  And 
he  continued,  "We  are  happy.  We  cannot  greet  you  with  a  hand- 
shake. Some  of  us  have  received  the  Gospel  since  we  were  on  this 
island,  and  the  joy  and  the  comfort  we  receive  from  the  Gospel  has 
more  than  compensated  us  for  our  affliction,  our  infirmities.  God 
will  bless  you,  Brother  Callis,  for  coming  to  the  least  of  these  your 
brethren."  He  closed  the  meeting  while  my  tears  were  fast  falling, 
and  then  to  think  though  I  loved  this  people,  I  had  to  pass  through 
them  while  they  withdrew  to  one  side ;  could  not  touch  them,  could 
not  shake  hands  with  them.  Oh,  brethren  and  sisters,  how  blessed 
we  are !  It  seems  to  me  that  God  in  Heaven  is  preparing  a  house  for 
His  afflicted  children,  a  resurrected  body,  the  glories  of  which  have 
not  entered  into  their  minds  to  conceive. 

TESTIMONY  OF  GOd's  GOODNESS 

I  humbly  testify  that  this  work  is  of  God ;  that  Christ  is  appeal- 
ing unto  all  nations,  and  ere  long  they  will  receive  His  teachings 
for  He  is  the  Holy  One  of  Israel.  He  is  the  Savior  of  the  world. 
This  Gospel  is  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation.  Joseph  Smith,  min- 
gling with  Gods,  is  planning  for  his  brethren,  for  this  people.  God 
bless  him  forever. 

I  testify  that  President  Grant  is  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  He  is  God's  choice  for  President  of  this  Church,  and  he  is 
a  Prophet,  Seer,  and  Revelator,  loved  by  his  people,  honored  by  the 
Lord,  and  one  whose  love  cannot  be  shaken  for  his  people  and  for 
his  God.   I  so  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  SAMUEL  O.  BENNION 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

This  is  an  inspiring  sight.  I  believe  I  have  never  been  more 
filled  with  thankfulness  unto  the  Lord  for  the  strength  of  Zion  than 
at  the  present  time.  I  recognize  here  in  this  building  the  leaders  of 
the  Church  in  all  parts  of  the  country,  men  and  women  who  have 
gathered  together  to  get  more  information  concerning  their  work 
to  take  back  to  the  different  Stakes  of  Zion  and  the  world,  and  it  is 
a  glorious  sight.  I  endorse  the  expression  by  some  who  have  pre- 
ceded me  relative  to  the  fine  and  inspirational  words  of  welcome  that 
came  to  us  from  President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  marvel  at  the  strength 
and  power  of  the  man.  I  know  that  if  God  were  not  with  him,  he 
could  not  have  stood  the  many  responsibilities  that  have  been  his, 
and  I  believe  with  all  my  heart  that  the  faith  and  prayers  and  devo- 
tion of  the  Latter-day  Saints  have  kept  him  from  being  destroyed, 
and  that  the  Lord  has  preserved  his  life. 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION 


91 


AN  INSPIRED  LEADERSHIP 

I  marvel  at  the  leadership  of  the  Church.  I  am  thankful  that 
President  McKay  is  alive  and  so  well  after  such  an  illness,  an  illness 
which  seemed  to  have  power  to  strike  him  down  but  failed.  I  am 
sure  that  all  who  listened  to  President  Clark  yesterday  were  thrilled 
with  the  power  of  his  message,  that  they  could  not  help  but  say  in 
their  hearts  "There  is  the  voice  of  God,"  the  leadership  that  the  Lord 
inspired  him  to  take  in  this  Conference,  covering  so  well  the  things 
that  need  to  be  expressed  and  understood  by  the  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  is  always  an  inspiration  for  me,  brothers  and  sisters,  to  attend 
these  Conferences  and  hear  the  testimonies  of  the  leaders  of  the 
Church  as  they  bear  witness  to  the  truth  of  the  restored  Gospel. 

When  they  speak  as  they  do  during  these  Conferences,  they  do 
so  as  men  having  authority,  for  they  are  divinely  empowered  to  de- 
clare this  restored  message  of  latter  days.  They  are  God's  represen- 
tatives, bearing  witness  in  modern  times,  as  His  ancient  prophets  did 
in  their  day. 

WITNESSES  FOR  CHRIST 

The  Lord  has  declared  that  in  the  mouths  of  witnesses  shall  all 
things  be  established.  This  has  been  a  rule  of  the  Gospel  in  all 
ages.  It  was  so  in  the  days  of  Moses  and  Aaron,  it  was  so  in  the  days 
of  the  Master,  and  it  is  equally  so  today. 

In  the  Meridian  of  Time  the  Apostles  of  the  Lord  became  eye 
witnesses  to  the  works  of  the  Master.  They  accompanied  Him 
throughout  His  ministry,  saw  His  acts  of  kindness,  and  heard  Him 
teach  the  multitudes  which  followed  Him.  Some  of  His  disciples 
were  with  Him  at  the  time  of  His  transfiguration,  and  in  His  final 
suffering.  They  saw  Him  betrayed  by  Judas,  and  later  crucified. 
They  were  witnesses  of  His  burial  in  the  tomb  of  Joseph  of  Arima- 
thea,  and  finally  they  were  eye  witnesses  of  His  resurrection.  They 
saw  Him  after  He  came  forth  from  the  tomb,  and  heard  His  voice. 
Some  felt  Him,  so  that  they  knew  He  was  not  merely  a  spirit.  They 
saw  Him  eat,  and  at  last  beheld  Him  ascend  to  His  Father  in  heaven. 
They  were  in  every  sense  of  the  word,  witnesses  of  the  Lord.  By 
their  experience  they  could  testify  to  the  world  concerning  Him. 

When  the  time  came  for  the  appointment  of  one  to  succeed 
Judas,  who  betrayed  the  Lord,  Peter  stood  up  in  the  midst  of  the  dis- 
ciples and  said : 

Wherefore  of  these  men  which  have  companied  with  us  all  the  time 
that  the  Lord  Jesus  went  in  and  out  among  us  *  *  *  must  one  be  ordained 
to  be  a  witness  with  us  of  His  resurrection. 

And  when  they  had  drawn  lots,  the  lot  fell  upon  Matthias,  "and 
he  was  numbered  with  the  eleven  Apostles." 

I  would  have  you  note  here  that  when  Matthias  was  called  to 
the  Apostleship  he  was  called  to  be  a  living  witness  of  the  resurrec- 
tion of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.   This  was  definitely  the  mission  the 


92  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday.  April  6  Second  Day 

Lord  had  in  mind  for  His  ancient  Apostles,  for  He  said  to  them  at 
one  time :  "Ye  shall  be  witnesses  unto  me  both  in  Jerusalem  and 
in  all  Judea,  and  in  Samaria,  and  unto  the  uttermost  part  of  the 
earth." 

As  Peter  bore  his  testimony  at  one  time  concerning  the  risen 
Lord,  he  declared  that  Jesus  would  come  again  to  the  earth  at  the 
time  of  the  restitution  of  all  things  which  God  hath  spoken  by  the 
mouths  of  all  His  holy  prophets  since  the  world  began. 

MODERN  WITNESSES 

We  are  now  living  in  the  time  of  the  restitution  of  all  things. 
The  Gospel  has  been  restored  to  the  earth,  together  with  the  power 
by  which  its  ordinances  are  to  be  administered.  If  all  things  were 
to  be  restored,  then  this  principle  of  witnesses  must  likewise  be  re- 
stored, so  that  in  our  day  men  may  receive  the  testimony  of  eye- 
witnesses of  the  Lord  and  His  work. 

We  declare  that  this  principle  has  been  restored,  and  that  in 
modern  times  mortal  men  have  become  eye  witnesses  of  the  Lord 
and  His  work,  and  that  through  having  seen  and  talked  with  Him 
these  men  were  able  to  give  testimony  similar  to  that  borne  by  Peter 
and  Paul  in  ancient  times. 

As  Moses  of  old  talked  with  God  face  to  face,  as  the  ancient 
Apostles  saw  and  talked  with  the  Lord  after  His  resurrection,  so 
did  Joseph  Smith,  the  modern  prophet  and  some  of  his  most  intimate 
associates  see  the  Lord,  becoming  eye-witnesses  of  Him  and  His 
work. 

Concerning  one  of  these  experiences  which  occurred  in  the  Kirt- 
land  Temple,  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  wrote  the  following : 

We  saw  the  Lord  standing  upon  the  breastwork  of  the  pulpit,  before 
us ;  and  under  His  feet  was  a  paved  work  of  pure  gold,  in  color  like 
amber.  His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire;  the  hair  of  His  head  was  white 
like  the  pure  snow;  His  countenance  shone  above  the  brightness  of  the 
sun;  and  His  voice  was  as  the  sound  of  the  rushing,  of  great  waters,  even 
the  voice  of  Jehovah,  saying: 

I  am  the  first  and  the  last ;  I  am  He  who  liveth,  I  am  He  who  was 
slain;  I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father. 

Concerning  another  such  experience,  we  have  the  following  tes- 
timony : 

We,  Joseph  Smith,  Junior,  and  Sidney  Rigdon,  being  in  the  Spirit  on 
the  sixteenth  day  of  February  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  one  thousand  eight 
hundred  and  thirty-two — by  the  power  of  the  Spirit  our  eyes  were  opened 
and  our  understandings  were  enlightened,  so  as  to  see  and  understand 
the  things  of  God — even  those  things  which  were  from  the  beginning 
before  the  world  was,  which  were  ordained  of  the  Father  through  His 
Only  Begotten  Son,  who  was  in  the  bosom  of  the  Father,  even  from  the 
beginning ;  of  whom  we  bear  record,  and  the  record  which  we  bear  is  the 
fulness  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  who  is  the  Son,  whom  we  saw  and 
with  whom  we  conversed  in  the  heavenly  vision. 

Through  other  experiences  also,  the  leaders  of  our  Church 


ELDER  SAMUEL  0.  BENNION  93 


became  witnesses  of  the  Lord,  divinely  empowered  to  testify  to  all 
the  world  of  the  restoration  of  the  Gospel,  of  the  fact  that  God  lives, 
and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  for  they  saw  Him  and 
talked  with  Him  as  did  the  ancient  Apostles. 

But  these  are  not  the  only  instances  in  which  men  became 
witnesses  of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

MORE  THAN  ONE  WITNESS  NECESSARY 

As  it  is  declared,  that  in  the  mouth  of  two  or  three  witnesses  so 
shall  all  things  be  established,  so  witnesses  were  chosen  for  other 
phases  of  the  work  of  God  in  these  last  days. 

It  is  a  striking  thing  that  at  no  time  were  any  of  the  keys  of  the 
Priesthood  restored  in  our  time  when  only  one  man  was  present. 
Always  there  were  two.  Oliver  Cowdery  and  Joseph  Smith  were 
together  when  John  the  Baptist  restored  the  Aaronic  Priesthood. 
Likewise  they  were  together  when  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  was 
restored.  When  the  keys  of  the  gathering  of  Israel,  of  the  dispensa- 
tion of  the  Gospel  in  the  days  of  Abraham,  and  the  keys  held  by 
Elijah  were  brought  again  to  the  earth,  these  two  men  were  together 
to  receive  them,  so  that  in  compliance  with  this  law  of  witnesses, 
there  would  be  more  than  one  voice  to  declare  the  truth  to  the 
world,  and  so  that  being  two,  one  would  corroborate  the  other  and 
thus  establish  the  truth  of  what  they  said. 

Since  the  coming  forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  to  form 
such  a  prominent  part  of  the  restoration  plan,  and  since  it  carried 
in  and  of  itself  such  an  important  message  to  the  world,  the  Lord 
saw  fit  to  provide  it  with  the  testimony  of  witnesses. 

Its  origin  was  not  to  be  declared  solely  upon  the  word  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  Eleven  other  men  were  chosen  to  be  wit- 
nesses of  that  book.  Each  one  saw  the  plates  with  his  own  eyes, 
and  signed  a  testimony  to  that  effect. 

Three  of  these  witnesses  were  shown  the  plates  by  an  angel 
who  appeared  to  them  and  displayed  the  engraved  writings  before 
them  as  a  voice  from  heaven  declared  the  record  was  true,  and  that 
the  translation  thereof  was  correct. 

DAVID  WHITMER'S  TESTIMONY 

For  years  I  resided  in  the  middle  west  where  also  lived  men  and 
women  who  knew  David  Whitmer,  one  of  the  Three  Witnesses  to 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  have  talked  with  some  of  these  people 
concerning  him  and  his  testimony,  and  although  they  were  not 
members  of  the  Church,  they  united  in  saying  that  David  Whitmer 
remained  faithful  to  his  testimony  to  the  very  end. 

At  one  time  it  was  reported  that  he  had  denied  this  testimony, 
but  when  he  heard  of  it,  he  published  a  new  declaration  concerning 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  In  this  new  pronouncement,  he  affirmed 
positively  the  truth  of  his  original  testimony,  saying  that  he  had 
seen  the  angel,  that  he  had  seen  the  original  plates  from  which  the 


94  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Dag 

Book  of  Mormon  was  translated,  and  that  his  testimony  as  published 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon  was  true.  At  this  time  he  was  not  a  member 
of  the  Church,  having  been  excommunicated  previously. 

OLIVER  COWDERY  AND  MARTIN  HARRIS 

Oliver  Cowdery  and  Martin  Harris,  the  others  who  signed  the 
testimony  of  the  Three  Witnesses,  likewise  remained  true  and  faith- 
ful to  their  testimony  concerning  this  book.  They  always  affirmed, 
wherever  they  were,  that  they  had  signed  their  names  as  the  Book 
of  Mormon  bears  evidence.  Oliver  Cowdery  died  in  Richmond, 
Missouri,  while  he  was  visiting  with  his  brother-in-law,  David 
Whitmer,  for  David  Whitmer  married  his  sister.  He,  Oliver,  had 
joined  the  Church  again  in  Omaha,  or  Florence,  where  the  Saints 
were  gathering,  and  took  a  last  trip  down  to  see  his  sister.  There 
he  sickened  and  died  and  did  not  come  West.  But  Martin  Harris 
came  West,  and  affiliated  with  the  main  body  of  the  Church. 

TESTIMONY  COMES  THROUGH  THE  POWER  OF  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

As  the  early  leaders  of  the  Church  were  witnesses  of  the  re- 
stored Gospel,  so  we  today  witness  that  we  too  know  of  the  truth 
of  these  things.  Latter-day  Saints  throughout  the  world  also  testify 
that  they  know  the  restored  Gospel  of  Christ  is  true.  By  the  power 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Lord  has  borne  witness  to  their  spirits  that 
Mormonism  is  divine,  and  by  the  same  power  do  we  here  today 
reaffirm  our  own  faith  in  this  work. 

We  say  to  all  men  who  wish  to  know  whether  these  things  are 
true  to  ask  of  God  who  giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and,  in  the 
language  of  the  Prophet  Moroni,  if  we  shall  ask  in  faith,  nothing 
doubting,  believing  in  the  Lord,  He  shall  manifest  the  truth  of  it  by 
the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  this  is  the  way  that  all  men  may 
know  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  that  is,  by  the  testimony  of  this 
great  witness,  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  give  to  the  children  of  men  in  this  audience  and  to  all  who  may 
be  listening,  men  with  whom  I  may  associate  and  men  whom  I 
do  not  know,  who  are  listening  in,  I  bear  my  testimony  that  this 
is  the  work  of  God  and  the  same  evidence  that  comes  to  me  will 
'  come  to  you,  it  will  come  to  all  men  who  will  make  an  investigation 
and  will  humble  themselves  before  God.  The  true  greatness  of  His 
power  shall  be  made  manifest  and  all  who  do  it  and  keep  the  com- 
mandments of  God  shall,  in  the  language  of  the  great  Nephite 
Prophet,  be  saved  in  the  everlasting  Kingdom  of  the  Lamb  of  God. 
Amen. 


An  anthem,  "How  Lovely  Are  the  Messengers,"  (Mendel- 
ssohn) was^ungby  the  Ricks  College  Choir. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH  95 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

I  have  greatly  rejoiced  in  the  testimonies  given  at  this  Confer- 
ence. With  my  brethren  I  regret  very  much  the  absence  of  President 
Grant,  and  pray  earnestly  for  his  speedy  return  in  full  health  and 
vigor.  I  have  been  extremely  happy  because  of  the  nature  of  the  re- 
marks that  have  been  made  by  those  who  have  spoken.  I  feel  very 
humble,  and  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  lead  me  this  after- 
noon in  the  remarks  that  I  may  make,  for  I  have  only  one  desire  and 
that  is  to  say  the  things  the  Lord  would  have  me  say. 

I  am  going  to  read  from  the  59th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants : 

Wherefore  I  give  unto  them  [meaning  the  members  of  the  Church] 
a  commandment,  saying  thus :  Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with  all 
thy  heart,  with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and  strength;  and  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ  thou  shalt  serve  Him. 

Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as  thyself.  Thou  shalt  not  steal;  neither 
commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  anything  like  unto  it. 

Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God  in  all  things. 

COVENANTS  TO  BE  KEPT 

Every  person  baptized  into  this  Church  has  made  a  covenant 
with  the  Lord  to  keep  His  commandments,  and  in  this  command- 
ment, reiterated  in  the  dispensation  in  which  we  live,  we  are  told  that 
we  are  to  serve  the  Lord  with  all  the  heart  and  all  the  mind,  and  with 
all  the  strength  that  we  have,  and  that  too  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Everything  that  we  do  should  be  done  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ. 

In  the  waters  of  baptism  we  covenanted  that  we  would  keep 
these  commandments ;  that  we  would  serve  the  Lord ;  that  we  would 
keep  this  first  and  greatest  of  all  the  commandments,  and  love  the 
Lord  our  God ;  that  we  would  keep  the  next  great  commandment, 
we  would  love  our  neighbor  as  ourselves;  and  with  all  the  might 
that  we  have,  with  all  the  strength,  with  all  our  hearts  we  would 
prove  to  Him  that  we  would  "live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
forth  from  the  mouth  of  God  f  that  we  would  be  obedient  and  hum- 
ble, diligent  in  his  service,  willing  to  obey,  to  hearken  to  the  counsels 
of  those  who  preside  over  us  and  do  all  things  with  an  eye  single  to 
the  glory  of  God. 

We  should  not  forget  these  things,  for  this  commandment  is 
binding  upon  us  as  members  of  the  Church. 

Now  may  I  read  you  another  commandment : 

But  ye  (again  having  reference  to  the  members  of  the  Church)  are 
commanded  in  all  things  to  ask  of  God,  who  giveth  liberally;  and  that 
which  the  Spirit  testifies  unto  you  even  so  I  would  that  ye  should  do  in  all 
holiness  of  heart,  walking  uprightly  before  me,  considering  the  end  of 
your  salvation,  doing  all  things  with  prayer  and  thanksgiving,  that  ye  may 


96  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

not  be  seduced  by  evil  spirits,  or  doctrines  of  devils,  or  the  command- 
ments of  men;  for  some  are  of  men,  and  others  of  devils. 

Wherefore,  beware  lest  ye  are  deceived;  and  that  ye  may  not  be 
deceived  seek  ye  earnestly  the  best  gifts,  always  remembering  for  what 
they  are  given. 

Now,  my  good  brethren  and  sisters,  if  we  are  humble,  if  we  are 
diligent  in  the  service  of  the  Lord,  if  we  seek  to  serve  Him  with  an 
eye  single  to  the  glory  of  our  Father  in  heaven,  keeping  in  mind  that 
He  has  asked  for  that  service  with  a  full  heart,  with  all  our  might, 
with  all  our  mind,  and  with  all  our  strength,  we  will  not  go  astray, 
we  will  not  be  seduced  by  evil  spirits  nor  by  the  spirits  of  men,  but 
we  will  be  led  and  directed  by  the  Spirit  of  God. 


GUIDANCE  COMES  THROUGH  THE  HOLY  GHOST 

Every  member  of  the  Church  has  had  hands  laid  upon  his  head 
for  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  He  has  a  right  to  receive  the  revela- 
tions that  are  expedient  and  necessary  for  his  guidance  individually ; 
not  for  the  Church,  but  for  himself.  He  has  a  right  through  his 
obedience,  through  his  humility,  to  receive  light  and  truth  as  it 
shall  be  revealed  through  the  Spirit  of  Truth,  and  he  who  will 
hearken  to  that  Spirit  and  seek  for  the  gift  of  the  Spirit  in  humility 
and  faith  shall  not  be  deceived. 

Now  there  are  some  of  our  people  who  are  being  deceived. 
Why?  Because  they  lack  knowledge,  because  they  lack  understand- 
ing, and  because  they  are  not  in  tune  with  the  Holy  Spirit,  which 
they  have  a  right  to  receive  through  their  faithfulness  and  obedience. 

PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOw's  COUNSEL  REGARDING  TITHING 

I  would  like  briefly  to  call  attention  to  a  few  things  that  have 
been  mentioned  here,  and  some  that  have  not.  I  would  like  to  say  a 
word  or  two  about  tithing.  It  has  been  mentioned,  and  I  am  very 
grateful  to  know  that  it  has.  I  want  to  read  to  you  a  few  words  that 
were  uttered  by  President  Lorenzo  Snow  when  he  was  pleading 
with  the  people  to  be  honest  with  the  Lord.  Now  we  are  not  faithful 
Latter-day  Saints  if  we  are  dishonest  with  the  Lord,  we  are  not 
serving  Him  with  all  our  hearts,  with  all  our  might,  with  all  our 
strength  if  we  are  dishonest  in  the  payment  of  our  tithes  and  our 
offerings,  and  we  shall  stand  before  the  Lord  condemned  and  not 
entitled  to  the  guidance  of  His  Holy  Spirit,  and  likely  will  be  de- 
ceived by  these  spirits  that  lie  in  wait  to  deceive,  if  we  are  guilty  of 
failing  to  keep  this  great  commandment  or  any  other  of  the  com- 
mandments that  the  Lord  has  given  us. 

These  are  the  words  of  President  Snow  to  the  Church : 

Teach  the  children  to  pay  tithing  so  that  it  may  be  properly  observed. 
If  we  observe  this  law,  no  matter  what  our  enemies  may  do  the  Lord  will 
preserve  us.  Because  we  are  His  sons  and  daughters  He  loves  us,  and  He 
has  forgiven  our  forgetfulness  of  this  holy  law  in  the  past,  but  He  will  not 
forgive  you  and  me  any  longer,  should  we  continue  in  this  dilatory  way  of 


ELDER  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


97 


paying  tithing.  We  shall  be  scattered  just  as  the  people  in  Jackson  County 
were.  This  is  true  as  the  Lord  is  true.  The  Lord  has  blessed  us  wonder- 
fully and  preserved  us  in  the  land  and  yet  we  haveref  used  to  pay  our  honest 
debt  unto  Him.  A  great  many  people  have  not  paid  one  cent  of  tithing,  and 
yet  they  have  gone  into  the  temples  of  the  Lord. 

Then  speaking  to  the  officers  of  the  Stakes  and  Wards  he  said : 

How  do  you  feel  when  you  give  a  recommend  to  a  person  to  come  into 
our  Temples  who  pays  no  tithing,  who  only  pays  half  a  tithing?  How  will 
you  feel  after  this  ?  You  will  feel  that  you  are  taking  a  sacred  responsibility 
in  doing  that  which  God  does  not  approve.  He  has  said  that  the  man  who 
fails  to  pay  his  tithing  shall  have  no  place  among  the  people  of  God.  Yet 
here  are  these  Temples  erected  by  the  sacrifice  of  the  poor,  and  to  give 
recommends  to  parties  who  pay  little  or  no  tithing,  how  can  you  feel  to 
take  this  responsibility?  I  could  not.  Part  of  a  tithing  is  not  tithing  at 
all  in  the  eyes  of  the  law  that  the  Lord  has  revealed. 

PRESIDENT  BRIGHAM  YOUNG'S  ADVICE  TO  BISHOPS 

I  have  another  statement  here  from  President  Brigham  Young, 
given  to  the  Bishops  of  the  Church : 

These  men  and  women  whom  you  recommend  must  be  individuals  who 
pay  their  tithing  from  year  to  year ;  that  is,  those  who  are  recommended 
to  go  to  the  Temple  should  pray  and  not  speak  against  the  Authorities  of 
the  Church,  against  the  Kingdom  of  God,  nor  steal,  nor  lie,  nor  interfere 
with  their  neighbors'  things,  nor  their  neighbors'  wives  or  husbands,  but 
attend  strictly  to  meetings,  and  prayer  meetings,  and  those  who  pay  due 
respect  to  their  presiding  officers  and  Bishops,  and  those  who  do  not  swear. 

People  who  are  guilty  of  these  offenses,  according  to  President 
Young,  should  not  be  recommended  to  go  to  the  Temple  to  receive 
the  ordinances  of  the  House  of  the  Lord. 

FAST  DAY  REQUIREMENTS 

Let  me  say  a  word  or  two  now  in  regard  to  Fasting  and  Fast 
offerings.  This  morning  in  the  meeting  that  was  held — the  Welfare 
meeting  we  had  portrayed  before  us  the  gradual  rise  of  the  percent- 
age of  Fast  offerings  paid  by  the  Church.  Now,  my  good  brethren 
and  sisters,  the  amount  that  has  been  paid  up  to  this  present  year  is 
not  by  any  means  the  amount  that  we  ought  to  pay.  We  have  not  kept 
this  commandment,  for  Fasting  and  prayer  in  faith  and  the  payment 
of  offerings  are  commandments  of  the  Lord.  We  have  been  called 
upon  to  Fast.  I  do  not  know  when  we  have  heard  a  discourse  on 
Fasting;  not  very  often,  am  I  am  sure  that  we  are  not  observing 
this  law  of  Fasting  as  members  of  the  Church  as  we  ought  to  do. 
We  have  made  it  easy  for  the  people,  that  is,  easy  to  break  this  com- 
mandment because  we  have  moved  the  Fast  service  up  so  high  on  the 
Fast  Day  that  we  can  get  all  through  and  home  again  by  one  o'clock, 
or  12:30.  That  is  a  good  time  to  eat,  isn't  it?  And  yet  according 
to  the  commandment  that  the  Lord  has  given  to  us  through  His 
servants  we  should  abstain  from  food  and  water  for  one  day,  count- 
ing twenty-four  hours,  or  from  sunset  to  sunset.  Now  if  you  want  to 


98  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 


Fast  from  twelve  o'clock  noon  until  twelve  o'clock  noon  I  suppose  it 
would  be  just  as  well  if  that  is  what  you  wish  to  do,  but  many  of  us 
are  not  observing  the  Fast  Day  now. 

I  want  to  say  to  you,  my  good  brethren,  we  cannot  have  that 
guidance  of  the  Holy  Spirit  as  we  ought  to  have  it  if  we  do  not  Fast 
as  the  Lord  has  required  it  of  us ;  not  extensive  Fasts,  but  the  Fast 
which  has  been  set  apart  which  we  should  do  in  wisdom.  Now 
the  Lord  says  we  should  do  all  things  in  wisdom,  but  we  are  not 
Fasting,  hence  we  are  not  paying  our  Fast  offerings  ;  we  are  not  pray- 
ing I  fear,  as  we  should.  I  wonder  if  we  are  praying  in  our  secret 
closets.  I  wonder  if  we  are  teaching  our  families  to  pray ;  if  the 
spirit  of  prayer  is  among  us  as  it  ought  to  be. 

I  commend  to  your  reading,  and  I  shall  not  take  time  to  do  it, 
the  words  of  an  ancient  prophet,  found  in  the  34th  chapter  of  Alma  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  Amulek  says  that  we  should  cry  unto  the 
Lord  over  our  flocks,  over  our  herds,  over  our  goods,  in  our  fields, 
and  in  our  secret  chambers,  that  we  should  do  nothing  but  that  we 
present  the  matter  before  the  Lord  and  ask  for  His  guidance  and  His 
blessing.  We  should  go  on  our  knees  a  little  more  and  then  we  will 
have  more  faith.  We  need  to  be  more  humble  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord.  We  need  to  spend  less  time  in  the  criticism  of  those  who  pre- 
side. 

JOSEPH  SMITH'S  TEACHINGS  REGARDING  PERFECTION 

I  am  going  to  read  to  you  a  statement  from  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  that  I  think  is  important.  I  have  a  number  of  statements  here 
that  I  should  like  to  read,  but  I  shall  not  take  the  time  to  do  so,  but 
this  is  worthy  of  our  consideration  : 

We  consider  that  God  has  created  man  with  a  mind  capable  of  in- 
struction, and  a  faculty  which  may  be  enlarged  in  proportion  to  the 
heed  and  diligence  given  to  the  light  communicated  from  heaven  to  the 
intellect;  and  that  the  nearer  man  approaches  perfection,  the  clearer  are 
his  views,  and  the  greater  his  enjoyments,  till  he  has  overcome  the  evils 
of  his  life  and  lost  every  desire  for  sin;  and  like  the  ancients,  arrives  at 
that  point  of  faith  where  he  is  wrapped  up  in  the  power  and  glory  of  his 
Maker  and  is  caught  up  to  dwell  with  Him.  But  we  consider  that  this  is 
a  station  to  which  no  man  ever  arrived  in  a  moment ;  he  must  have  been 
instructed  in  the  government  and  laws  of  that  Kingdom  by  proper 
degrees,  until  his  mind  is  capable  in  some  measure  of  comprehending  the 
propriety,  justice,  equality,  and  consistency  of  the  same. 

If  God  should  speak  from  heaven,  He  would  command  you  not  to 
steal,  not  to  commit  adultery,  not  to  covet,  nor  deceive,  but  be  faithful 
over  a  few  things.  As  far  as  we  degenerate  from  God,  we  descend  to 
the  devil  and  lose  knowledge,  and  without  knowledge  we  cannot  be  saved, 
and  while  our  hearts  are  filled  with  evil,  and  we  are  studying  evil,  there 
is  no  room  in  our  hearts  for  good,  or  studying  good.  Is  not  God  good? 
Then  you  be  good;  if  He  is  faithful,  then  you  be  faithful.  Add  to  your 
faith  virtue,  to  virtue  knowledge,  and  seek  for  every  good  thing. 

FAITHFULNESS  A  PROTECTION  AGAINST  EVIL 


The  nearer  we  approach  God,  the  better  we  endeavor  to  keep 
His  commandments,  the  more  we  will  search  to  know  His  will  as  it 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


99 


has  been  revealed,  the  less  likely  it  will  be  for  us  to  be  led  astray  by 
every  wind  of  doctrine,  by  these  false  spirits  that  lie  in  wait  to 
deceive,  and  by  the  spirits  of  men,  as  the  Lord  has  stated  in  the  rev- 
elations which  I  have  read  to  you.  We  will  be  protected,  and  we  will 
have  the  power  to  understand,  to  segregate  truth  from  error,  we 
will  walk  in  the  light  and  we  will  not  be  deceived.  Now  the  man 
who  is  dilatory,  the  man  who  is  unfaithful,  the  man  who  is  not  will- 
ing to  keep  the  commandments  of  the  Lord  in  all  things  lays  himself 
open  to  deception  because  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  not  with  him  to 
lead  and  direct  him  and  to  show  him  the  way  of  truth  and  righteous- 
ness, and  therefore  some  error  comes  along  and  he  absorbs  it  be- 
cause he  cannot  understand  and  realize  the  difference  between  truth 
and  error.  I  want  to  tell  you  there  is  much  error  in  this  world  that 
is  passed  off  as  truth,  and  it  behooves  every  man  of  us  to  seek  God, 
and,  as  stated  by  the  prophet,  draw  near  unto  Him,  and  the  nearer 
we  draw  unto  Him,  and  the  more  we  seek  to  do  His  will  the  more 
light  we  shall  receive  and  the  less  shall  be  the  danger  of  our  decep- 
tion.  And  so  I  pray  in  the  nariie  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord,  Amen. 

ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy  and  President 
of  the  New  England  Mission 

New  England  is  one  of  the  distinct  geographical  sections  of  the 
United  States,  and  is  the  most  thickly  populated  part  of  our  coun- 
try. All  the  sectarian  groups  of  America  are  naturally  found  among 
the  people,  who  are  as  a  rule  very  religious.  They  cherish  the  mem- 
ory of  the  Pilgrim  fathers,  who  have  left  us  a  great  example  of 
mighty  courage,  for  they  never  thought  of  themselves  as  making 
history.  Of  the  one  hundred  and  one  passengers  on  the  Mayflower, 
over  half  of  them  died  the  first  winter.  They  gave  us  our  Mayflower 
Compact,  a  document  that  has  influenced  the  form  of  our  government 
more  than  any  other  with  the  exception  of  the  Magna  Charta. 

EDUCATION  IN  NEW  ENGLAND 

The  New  England  people  sponsored  education  from  the  first, 
and  today,  metropolitan  Boston  boasts  of  twenty-seven  colleges  and 
universities.  It  is  a  section  that  has  the  oldest  colleges  of  the 
United  States — Harvard,  Yale,  Brown,  Dartmouth,  and  many  other 
famous  universities.  To  these  higher  institutions  of  learning,  stu- 
dents come  from  all  over  the  world,  and  many  of  our  own  Utah 
boys  and  girls  are  studying  in  them.  We  feel  that  New  England 
is  a  fruitful  field  for  the  Gospel  because  its  people  naturally  have  a 
high  regard  for  culture  and  the  principles  of  Christianity. 

FAITH  NECESSARY  TO  THE  HIGHER  LIFE 

In  this  Conference,  our  brethren  have  emphasized  the  subject 


100 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

of  faith  in  God  and  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Faith  is  one  of  the  prin- 
cipal characteristics  of  a  soul,  seeking  the  higher  things  of  life.  It 
is  that  something  whch  tells  us  that  God  lives.  George  Santayana, 
who  was  at  one  time  professor  of  Spanish  and  Spanish  literature  at 
Harvard  College,  has  expressed  the  beauty  of  faith  in  his  poem 
called  "Columbus."  It  reads. 

O  world,  thou  choosest  not  the  better  part! 

It  is  not  wisdom  to  be  only  wise, 

And  on  the  inward  vision  close  the  eyes; 

But  it  is  wisdom  to  believe  the  heart. 

Columbus  found  a  world  and  had  no  chart, 

Save  one  that  faith  deciphered  in  the  skies. 

To  trust  the  soul's  invincible  surmise 

Was  all  his  science  and  his  only  art. 

Our  knowledge  is  a  torch  of  smoky  pine 

That  lights  the  pathway  but  one  step  ahead 

Across  a  void  of  mystery  and  dread. 

Bid,  then,  "the  tender  light  of  faith  to  shine 

By  which  alone  the  mortal  heart  is  led 

Unto  the  thinking  of  the  thought  divine. 

If  we  will  direct  our  thoughts  to  the  last  days  of  Jesus  Christ 
on  earth,  we  will  have  our  faith  strengthened  in  such  a  manner  that 
will  give  our  souls  a  joy  divine.  On  the  night  He  was  taken  to  meet 
His  death,  He  said  to  His  Disciples  : 

THE  MESSAGE  OF  JESUS 

"Because  I  live  ye  shall  also  live."  The  Easter  Day  was  the 
vindication  of  what  He  knew.  "It  must  needs  be,"  He  said,  "that 
the  Son  of  man  should  suffer  and  be  put  to  death  and  rise  again.  Be- 
cause I  live,  ye  shall  also  live."  We  may  be  sure  that  this  word  of 
the  Savior  is  one  of  the  eternal  truths  of  God.  And  then  He  left 
us  another  word :  "I  am  not  of  this  world,"  and  the  people  said : 
"This  man  speaks  with  authority  and  not  as  the  scribes."  There 
are  in  these  words  something  transcendent  in  meaning  and  some- 
thing more  beautiful  than  this  world  today  can  understand.  There  is 
a  sureness  to  them ;  there  is  a  something  that  goes  deep  into  our 
hearts  that  all  the  education  of  the  world  cannot  efface.  To  all  Chris- 
tian people  and  to  all  Pagan  nations,  Jesus  also  utters  other  words  to- 
day with  more  power  than  ever :  "Fear  not ;  I  am  the  first  and  the  last, 
but  am  alive  forevermore."  Ringing  down  through  all  the  centuries, 
this  eternal  message  of  Him  who  died  for  us  gives  us  the  renewed 
faith  and  hope  as  nothing  else  can  do.  You  and  I  are  citizens  of  the 
aeons  of  time  that  have  created  our  present  day.  Will  we  forget 
them  in  our  onward  march  in  the  conquest  of  material  things? 

MODERN  ACCOMPLISHMENTS 

The  ends  of  the  earth  are  brought  to  us  at  our  breakfast  tables. 
Wonders  and  powers  have  been  put  into  our  hands  before  which 
the  men  and  women  of  the  days  of  Jesus  would  have  trembled  with 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 


101 


fear.  Yet  ye  are  not  living  peaceably  with  ourselves  nor  with  our 
neighbors,  nor  with  nations.  We  live  on  sensation  rather  than  on 
divine  truth.  Civilization  has  strewn  the  paths  of  progress  with  the 
spoils  of  science  and  the  fruits  of  invention.  Distance  has  been  con- 
quered, bodily  diseases  are  within  our  power  to  cure,  humanity  is 
crowned  with  the  diadem  of  intellectual  progress  and  material  suc- 
cess, but  parallel  with  all  this  growth,  our  hearts  are  swollen  with 
pride,  and  we  are  not  living  buoyantly  and  serenely.  I  remember 
the  healing  word  of  a  great  physician  who  said  one  day  to  his  in- 
valid child:  "My  child,  the  hand  that  sent  you  to  earth  will  give 
you  strength  forever  more."  This  is  what  Jesus  meant  by  His  other 
words  when  He  said:  "Father,  into  thy  hands  I  commend  my 
spirit." 

THE  STRUGGLE  BETWEEN  THE  SPIRITUAL  AND  MATERIAL 

The  laws  of  the  spiritual  world  and  the  laws  of  the  material 
world  are  God's  laws  and  are  eternal.  Spiritual  laws  are  suffering 
at  the  hands  of  men.  This  is  why  darkness  prevails  and  the  dawn 
of  the  new  day  is  delayed.  We  citizens  of  this  great  nation  of  the 
United  States,  have  a  mighty  duty  which  we  are  forgetting.  A  duty 
that  can  only  be  carried  out  as  we  come  into  the  knowledge  of  the 
Gospel  of  the  Kingdom,  which  by  His  gracious  and  merciful  word 
has  again  been  given  to  man.  The  word  must  be  carried  to  the  ends 
of  the  earth,  that  it  may  be  established  in  the  hearts  of  men.  We 
have  three  great  visions  of  truth :  First,  the  word  of  God  given  to 
Moses  at  Sinai :  "I  am  the  Lord  thy  God."  Secondly,  the  voice  of 
America  proclaiming  the  liberty  and  equality  of  man;  and  third,  the 
mightiest  voice  of  all :  "Because  I  live,  ye  shall  also  live."  These 
are  the  messages  that  will  save  the  world. 

Our  duties  are  fraught  with  portentious  responsibilities.  This 
present  life  must  be  made  richer  by  the  men  of  nations,  states,  and 
churches.  All  peoples  will  have  to  enter  into  more  unselfish  relations 
with  the  peoples  of  the  earth ;  with  the  men  and  women  with  whom 
they  live  and  serve.  They  will  have  to  enter  into  richer  relations 
with  God,  that  the  reign  of  righteousness,  good-will,  and  brotherhood 
will  declare  once  and  for  all  "that  never  again  shall  they  lift  up  the 
sword  against  nations,  neither  shall  they  learn  war  any  more." 

CHRISTIANITY  MUST  BE  VITAL  TO  MEET  PROBLEMS 

The  Church  of  which  we  are  members  has  a  divine  message  for 
the  world,  for  it  was  founded  by  revelation  and  declares  that  God  has 
spoken  again.  It  declares  that  religion  must  affiliate  itself  with  all 
the  pursuits  of  mankind.  The  Holy  Bible  is  resplendent  with  legis- 
lation in  reference  to  land  and  wealth,  and  the  Jewish  Talmud  de- 
velops in  some  detail  the  rights  and  privileges  of  all  men  who  work, 
and  all  men  should  work.  A  living  religion  must  grapple  with  living 
issues.  While  it  is  true  that  today,  the  social  and  economic  problems 
are  far  more  complicated  than  ever  before  in  history,  measures  must 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Dag 

be  designed  by  all  Christian  peoples  to  deal  with  our  complex  prob- 
lems. If  Christianity  is  to  recapture  the  vitality  of  creative  religion, 
it  must  seek  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  the  path-finders  of  old. 
The  Latter-day  Saint  Church  is  demonstrating-  its  concern  with 
social  problems  and  that  is  why  we  have  our  Priesthood  and  Auxil- 
iary organizations.  Organized  religion  with  us  is  playing  a  mighty 
part  in  bringing  about  social  and  economic  reform.  We  shall  not 
solve  the  problems  for  ages  to  come,  but  we  may  take  courage  from 
the  words  of  an  ancient  sage,  who  declared :  "Not  thine  to  complete 
the  work,  neither  art  thou  free  to  lay  it  down." 

RELIGION  AND  EDUCATION 

One  of  the  largest  factors  for  the  proper  teaching  of  the  higher 
spiritual  values  of  life  should  be  our  public  schools  and  colleges.  For 
our  youth  should  participate  in  the  religious  life  of  the  communities 
where  they  live.  Religion  should  be  the  most  constructive  part  of 
our  culture,  for  that  culture  wherein  religious  idealism  prevails,  is  a 
culture  that  loves  beauty,  truth,  and  goodness.  The  great  souls  who 
in  1776  won  for  us  our  independence  and  the  right  to  have  religious 
freedom  were  men  and  women  who  wanted  to  exercise  that  right. 
It  is  religion  we  want,  but  not  secularism.  The  inhibitions  written 
in  our  State  laws  are  not  against  religious  teaching,  but  against  sec- 
tarian teaching.  Religion  and  education  cannot  be  separated.  The 
minute  education  assumes  an  attitude  that  religion  is  for  a  special 
class  of  thinkers,  then  our  schools  miss  that  quality  in  human  life 
that  make  for  the  happiness  of  mankind.  We  who  advocate  religious 
training,  however,  have  missed  the  larger  issue  at  times.  We  should 
not  require  credit  for  religious  subjects,  for  we  should  think  of 
something  higher  than  marks.  We  should  require  something  more 
fundamental  and  that  is  the  truth  that  the  school's  responsibility 
should  be  to  lay  a  foundation  of  religious  principles,  and  this  can 
only  be  done  by  the  teachers  consecrating  their  lives  to  the  highest 
religious  ideals  of  the  Holy  Bible.  The  consciences  of  teachers  must 
be  quickened  and  inspired  with  faith  and  courage  to  lift  their  voices 
against  wrong  and  infidelity.  This  does  not  mean  that  teachers 
should  adopt  or  accept  any  one  rule  of  life  or  agree  on  any  one  con- 
cept of  religious  thoughts.  "There  is,  however,  within  every  soul 
a  divine  light,  a  divine  impulse  for  good  and  truth,  and  when  this 
light  is  developed,  then  life  reaches  its  highest  vision  and  man  his 
greatest  happiness,"  said  the  philosopher,  Swedenborg.  It  is  this 
light  that  must  be  made  to  glow  in  the  souls  of  our  children,  for  it  is 
the  light  of  God  and  immortality.  Dr.  James  Conant,  the  President 
of  Harvard  College,  has  recently  written  in  his  report  to  the  Board 
of  Overseers,  "Our  Puritan  ancestors  thought  of  education  and  the- 
ology as  inseparably  connected.  It  is  hard  for  us  to  recapture  their 
point  of  view." 

It  is  religion  that  man  needs,  for  when  all  the  ideals  of  culture 
find  their  inspiration  and  nourishment  in  the  divine  ideals  of  Jesus 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  J.  MURDOCK 


103 


Christ,  and  take  their  place  in  the  great  living  purpose  of  the  world's 
Savior ;  when  thought  and  art  and  literature  and  knowledge  and  life 
are  brought  into  subjection,  to  the  obedience  of  Christ,  then  man- 
kind shall  have  attained  the  true  victory,  and  will  say :  "Thou  hast 
conquered,  O  Galilean." 

a  writer's  prayer 

May  we  turn  in  solemn  worship  and  adoration  of  Him  who  died 
that  we  might  live.  May  the  Easter  spirit  of  a  few  days  ago  remain 
with  us  to  lead  us  to  greater  heights;  may  we  keep  in  mind  the 
lovely  words  of  John  Drinkwater  who  wrote  just  before  he  died : 

MY  PRAYER 

We  know  the  paths  wherein  our  feet  should  press, 
Across  our  hearts  are  written  Thy  decrees 
Yet  now,  O  Lord,  be  merciful  to  bless 
with  more  than  these. 

Grant  us  the  will  to  fashion  as  we  feel, 
Grant  us  the  strength  to  labor  as  we  know, 
Grant  us  the  purpose,  ribbed  and  edged  with  steel, 
to  strike  the  blow. 

Knowledge  we  ask  not — knowledge  Thou  has  lent, 
But  Lord,  the  will — there  lies  our  bitter  need. 
Give  us  to  build  above  the  deep  intent 
the  deed,  the  deed. 

*    *  * 

God  help  us  to  walk  through  this  world,  now  opened  to  us  as 
through  a  Kingdom,  with  uplifted  hearts  and  larger  faith  to  the  life 
more  glorious,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  FRANKLIN  J.  MURDOCK 

Former  President  of  the  Netherlands  Mission 

I  rejoice  with  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  in  being  here  in  attend- 
ance at  this  great  Conference  of  our  Church.  I  have  found  comfort 
in  these  words : 

If  we  work  upon  marble  it  will  perish; 
If  we  work  upon  brass,  time  will  efface  it ; 
If  we  rear  temples  they  will  crumble  into  dust ; 
But  if  we  work  upon  immortal  souls, 

If  we  imbue  them  with  principles,  with  a  just  fear  of  the  Creator, 

a  love  of  fellow  men, 
We  engrave  on  those  tablets  something  which  will  brighten  all  eternity. 

This  seems  to  me  to  be  the  ideal  of  our  great  missionary  system, 
and  for  the  past  two  and  a  half  years  it  has  been  my  privilege  and 
pleasure  to  work  as  a  missionary  in  Holland.  It  is  a  beautiful  little 
country,  just  one-seventh  the  size  of  the  State  of  Utah,  and  has  a 
population  sixteen  times  that  which  we  have  here.    We  have  ap- 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

proximately  three  thousand  members  of  the  Church  in  Holland. 
All  of  our  Branches  are  officered  by  capable,  local  people.  Our  Aux- 
iliary boards  are  organized,  and  the  work  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
is  making  good  progress  there. 

Lesson  material  was  prepared  for  a  year  in  advance.  They  are 
preparing  now  for  their  Spring  Conferences,  and  from  a  letter  which 
I  received  last  week,  I  learn  that  during  the  month  of  March  they 
baptized  ten  new  converts  into  the  Church.  Their  Fast  offerings  and 
tithes  are  showing  a  slight  increase.  I  have  no  fear  that  the  Gospel 
and  the  members  of  the  Church  will  go  forward  together  in  the  land 
of  dikes  and  windmills. 

I  shall  never  forget  the  words  of  President  McKay  as  he  set  us 
apart  for  our  Mission.  He  said :  "President  Murdock,  your  first 
concern  is  your  missionaries."  And  how  true  that  was ! 

I  want  to  take  this  opportunity,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to 
thank  you  personally  for  the  boys  and  girls  you  sent  to  the  Dutch 
Mission.  They  are  even  better  than  the  other  Missions  which  we 
have  heard  from.  (Laughter).  To  see  those  young  men  come  from 
all  walks  of  life,  the  farm,  the  mine,  the  factory,  the  banks,  and  the 
schools,  inexperienced,  not  knowing  one  word  of  that  foreign  tongue ; 
to  see  them  come  into  the  Mission  office  for  the  first  time,  assign 
them,  get  acquainted  with  them,  and  after  a  short  period  of  time, 
a  month  perhaps,  go  and  attend  a  testimony  meeting  with  them ;  to 
sleep  with  them  and  pray  with  them,  and  Fast  with  them,  and  to 
see  the  development  which  they  receive  under  the  guidance  of  our 
Heavenly  Father,  was  a  marvel  to  me.  It  gave  me  a  testimony  of 
the  truth  and  divinity  of  this  work.  Young  men  do  not  go  seven 
thousand  miles  away  from  their  loved  ones ;  they  do  not  put  up  with 
every  kind  of  sacrifice  that  is  necessary  to  perform  missionary  labor ; 
they  do  not  meet  with  all  kinds  of  hardships,  unless  it  is  in  God's 
work. 

I  think  the  remarkable  thing  about  our  missionary  system  is 
that  all  of  these  boys  and  girls,  coming  together  from  all  over  the 
Church,  meet  together  and  learn  to  know  and  love  one  another  and 
work  as  a  great  unit,  preaching  the  Gospel.  These  young  men  travel 
all  day  and  come  to  their  journey's  end  at  night  and  then  climb  into 
bed  with  a  boy  that  they  have  never  met  before  in  their  lives,  and 
wake  up  in  the  morning  and  call  each  other  brother,  and  are  willing 
to  endure  all  kinds  of  hardships.  These  things  give  me  an  assurance 
that  this  is  God's  work  and  not  man's. 

I  shall  never  forget  one  experience.  One  of  our  young  men  was 
taken  to  the  hospital.  It  was  necessary  to  operate  upon  him  for 
appendicitis,  and  as  the  great  surgeon  was  scrubbing  his  hands, 
making  all  preparations  for  the  operation,  he  called  me  to  one  side 
and  said:  "President  Murdock,  what  is  there  about  these  young 
men?  I  have  never  before  in  my  life  seen  such  clean  blood,  such 
clean  flesh  as  you  have  here  in  this  young  man."  And  then,  in  a  few 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


105 


minutes,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  it  was  my  rare  privilege  to  present 
the  principles  of  the  Gospel  to  this  great  and  famous  surgeon. 

The  last  days  of  the  closing  of  the  Mission  he  came  to  my  office 
and  said :  "There  is  something  divine  about  Mormonism,  and  I  am 
ready  to  investigate  it  because  you  have  something  that  I  have  not 
found  in  any  other  group  of  people  in  all  the  world." 

To  keep  the  young  men  and  young  women  in  our  Church  clean 
is  the  greatest  work  that  we  can  be  engaged  in.  That  is  the  way  we 
can  brighten  all  eternity. 

I  want  to  bear  witness  to  the  great  and  wonderful  work  that 
was  done  by  our  beloved  President  Grant  in  his  visit  with  us ;  to  the 
great  leadership  of  President  and  Sister  Richard  R.  Lyman ;  and  in 
the  crisis  which  overtook  us  last  fall,  in  the  guiding  hands  of  Apostle 
and  Sister  Joseph  Fielding  Smith.  To  have  these  leaders  in  our 
Mission  was  a  great  stimulation  to  the  work.  I  shall  never  forget 
the  closing  scenes  of  our  missionary  life.  As  our  boat  was  sailing 
away,  those  humble  people  gathered  on  the  shore  and  sang  in 
unison : 

We  thank  Thee  for  sending  the  Gospel 
To  lighten  our  minds  with  its  rays. 

And  with  tear-stained  faces  as  they  left  the  shore  and  our  boat 
went  down  the  harbor,  I  could  hear  the  strains  of 

Come,  come,  ye  Saints, 
No  toil  nor  labor  fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way. 

That  great  and  brave  people,  the  Dutch  people,  are  a  wonderful 
people,  and  they  will  carry  on ;  I  have  no  doubt  of  that. 

Coming  back  home,  I  realize  more  than  ever  before  the  value 
of  this  great  land  and  the  Gospel  which  we  have  accepted,  and  as 
my  closing  thought  let  me  leave  this  with  you : 

To  appreciate  our  heritage, 
The  will  and  power  to  make  our  destiny, 
To  seek,  to  choose,  to  cherish,  and  to  work, 
The  right  to  worship  how  and  where  we  please, 

God  gave  that. 
Let  us  not  shirk  the  task,  the  joy 
Of  carrying  on  this  creed 
To  those  whose  strength 
Must  serve  tomorrow's  need. 

That  we  may  always  be  missionaries  wherever  we  are,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

We  wish  to  thank  this  wonderful  choir  from  Ricks  College. 
Their  singing  is  beautiful,  and  behind  it  is  a  spirit  and  a  spirituality 
which  I  find  nowhere  else  than  among  our  people  in  their  songs. 
May  God  bless  them  in  their  labors. 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

The  Ricks  College  Choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah"  anthem  from 
the  "Messiah,"  (Handel). 

Elder  Claudius  Bowman,  President  of  the  Juarez  Stake,  of- 
fered the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday  morning,  April  7,  at  10 
o'clock. 

THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 

The  fifth  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Sunday  morning,  April  7  at  10  o'clock. 

Almost  an  hour  in  advance  of  the  time  to  begin  this  meeting, 
the  great  Tabernacle  was  crowded  to  capacity  with  people  who  had 
assembled  from  the  various  Stakes  and  Missions  of  the  Church. 
The  large  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle  was 
also  fully  occupied  with  people,  and  thousands  in  addition  assembled 
on  the  Tabernacle  grounds.  Those  who  had  come  together  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  and  also  those  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  listened 
to  the  Conference  proceedings,  by  means  of  amplifiers  that  had 
been  installed,  as  they  were  broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Conference  was  furnished  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director.  Dr.  Frank 
W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ  console. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters  :  It  becomes  increasingly  apparent  that 
we  need  larger  quarters  for  our  General  Conferences.  An  hour  be- 
fore the  time  of  commencement  this  building  was  filled  to  capacity. 
I  am  sure  there  is  the  traditional  ten  thousand  people  here  this  morn- 
ing. I  hope  that  all  will  remain  as  quiet  as  possible  so  that  everyone 
may  hear. 

President  Grant  is  "listening  in"  this  morning. 


The  congregation  and  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"Praise  to  the  Man  who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 

Elder  S.  Taylor  Farnsworth,  President  of  the  Beaver  Stake, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


107 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  sincerely  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that  the  Lord  will 
bless  me  with  a  generous  portion  of  His  Holy  Spirit  during  the 
moment  or  two  I  stand  before  you  this  morning. 

I  would  that  every  member  of  this  great  congregation  could 
have  had  the  opportunity  of  attending  the  General  Welfare  meeting 
held  yesterday  morning  and  had  visualized  in  picture,  graph,  and 
statistics  the  splendid  achievements  of  this  great  movement  and  its 
possibilities  for  the  future. 

CHURCH  WELFARE  PROGRAM  OF  A  PERMANENT  NATURE 

Some  of  us  are  inclined  to  believe  that  the  Church  Welfare 
program  is  of  a  temporary  nature,  but  I  do  not  hesitate  in  declaring 
that  the  future  will  hold  a  greater  need  for  it  than  there  has  been  in 
the  past.  In  analyzing  conditions  in  our  great  nation  today,  it  is 
obvious  that  the  matter  of  relief  and  unemployment  is  a  local  prob- 
lem and  sooner  or  later  the  Federal  Government  will  turn  it  back  to 
states,  counties,  cities,  communities,  and  churches  for  solution. 

The  situation  is  clear.  The  Federal  Government  has  before  it 
two  issues :  first,  as  to  whether  or  not  it  is  able  to  carry  the  relief 
burden,  or  is  the  Federal  income  adequate  to  cover  the  huge  expendi- 
tures of  the  past,  present,  and  future.  The  present  condition  of  the 
National  Treasury  indicates  that  disbursements  are  far  in  excess  of 
receipts,  which  brings  back  to  mind  the  truth  expressed  by  President 
Clark,  wherein  he  declared  that  no  individual,  nor  private  enterprise, 
nor  even  government  can  long  exist  on  a  sound  financial  basis  when 
disbursements  are  greater  than  receipts.  This  local  problem  of  relief 
which  has  and  is  being  expanded  into  tremendous  proportions  by 
government  agencies  will  come  back  to  local  units  of  government 
where  it  rightly  belongs,  or  the  nation  faces  bankruptcy. 

Secondly,  the  Federal  Government  in  turning  the  problem  of 
relief  back  to  states,  counties,  cities,  communities,  and  churches 
should  set  in  motion  through  these  local  units  preparation  for  the 
caring  of  those  in  distress.  Where  preparation  is  being  made  to 
meet  this  problem,  there  will  be  but  little  difficulty.  But  where  no 
preparation  has  been  made,  suffering,  difficulties,  and  bloodshed  are 
not  remote  possibilities. 

STOREHOUSES  TO  BE  BUILT 

The  Welfare  Program  is  not  the  child  of  any  individual's  brain, 
but  comes  to  us  from  our  Heavenly  Father.  Your  attention  is  direct- 
ed to  a  revelation  given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in  the  year 
1832,  as  recorded  in  the  78th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
verse  3 : 

For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  the  time  has  come  and  is  now  at  hand ; 
and  behold,  and  lo,  it  must  needs  be  that  there  be  an  organization  of 


108  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

my  people,  in  regulating  and  establishing  the  affairs  of  the  storehouse 
for  the  poor  of  my  people,  both  in  this  place  and  in  the  land  of  Zion. 

In  this  revelation  there  are  indicated  to  us  two  important  points, 
probably  three.  First,  these  storehouses  are  to  be  regulated  and 
established  by  an  organization  of  the  Lord's  people.  Secondly,  a 
storehouse  was  to  be  set  up  in  "this"  place.  What  place?  The  place 
where  the  Saints  were  residing  in  1832 — in  and  about  Kirtland,  Ohio. 
Third,  the  Lord  said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph,  "and  in  the  land  of 
Zion." 

In  the  wisdom  of  the  Lord  and  through  the  power  of  inspiration, 
the  Presidency  of  the  Church  some  four  years  ago  instituted  this 
plan  in  greater  measure  than  before.  As  a  result,  there  have  been 
established  in  the  land  of  Zion  storehouses  under  the  direction  and 
regulation  of  an  organization  of  the  Lord's  people.  These  store- 
houses are  found  in  Canada,  the  Northwest,  California,  and  in  every 
Stake  of  the  Church.  This  impresses  us  with  the  fact  that  this  is 
not  a  new  plan,  but  rather  the  first  one  revealed  to  us  through  the 
instrumentality  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  This  is  one  of  the 
Lord's  ways  of  taking  care  of  his  people  in  distress. 


PRAISE  FOR  WELFARE  WORKERS 

As  one  phase  of  this  organization  there  has  recently  been  organ- 
ized in  the  Church  the  General  Welfare  Committee,  who  under 
mandate  of  the  First  Presidency  have  been  and  are  establishing  the 
Church  Welfare  Program  of  the  Church.  The  efforts  of  this  group 
of  men  are  of  the  highest  order.  This  Committee  is  composed  of 
men  from  the  various  walks  and  vocations  of  life ;  some  of  them  are 
professional  men,  others  business  men,  others  educators.  For  the 
past  four  years  they  have  given  most  generously  of  their  time  and 
talents  in  the  attempt  to  establish  in  every  Ward,  Stake,  and  Region 
of  the  Church  the  Lord's  way  of  caring  for  His  distressed  people. 

It  is  literally  a  day  of  preparation,  and  the  members  of  the 
General  Welfare  Committee  are  exerting  every  effort  to  emphasize 
the  necessity  of  being  fully  prepared  in  Priesthood  quorums,  Wards, 
Stakes,  and  Regions  in  order  that  this  plan  shall  operate  most  effici- 
ently in  solving  the  problems  of  relief  and  unemployment. 

Another  great  organization  stands  out  in  bold  relief  in  connec- 
tion with  this  movement,  namely  the  Relief  Society  organization, 
which  has  contributed  willingly,  freely,  and  generously  of  its  time 
and  resources  to  the  program.  If  it  had  not  been  for  the  Relief  So- 
ciety organization,  in  some  Stakes  the  Welfare  program  would  have 
made  but  little  progress. 

INDIVIDUAL  RESPONSIBILITY 

This  plan  anticipates  not  only  that  men  and  women  shall  be 
rehabilitated  in  their  temporal  affairs,  but  that  there  shall  be  a  reju- 
venation and  rehabilitation  in  their  attitude  towards  God,  towards 
their  Government,  and  towards  work. 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


109 


The  past  experiences  of  a  great  many  charitable  institutions  and 
organizations  prove,  where  assistance  has  been  given  without  plac- 
ing any  requirements  or  obligation  upon  the  recipients,  it  has  brought 
about  a  condition  of  demoralization,  disrespect  for  government,  and 
the  attitude  that  the  world  owes  man  a  living  without  any  mental 
or  physical  exertion  on  his  part.  In  such  instances,  when  relief 
is  taken  away,  such  individuals  are  not  able  through  desire  or  train- 
ing to  take  care  of  themselves.  The  Church  Welfare  Program  solves 
the  problem  of  demoralization  by  placing  on  every  individual  the 
responsibility  of  contributing  of  his  time  and  talents  on  some  worth- 
while project  that  there  may  be  instilled  in  his  mind  and  heart  the 
thought  that  what  he  has  received  is  his,  by  right  of  having  earned  it. 
The  Lord  has  placed  this  obligation  on  all.  He  said,  "Thou  shalt  not 
be  idle,  for  he  that  is  idle  shall  not  eat  the  bread  nor  wear  the  gar- 
ments of  the  laborer."  This  is  the  essence  and  battle-cry  of  this  great 
program  of  rehabilitation  and  preparation  against  the  day  of  need, 
which  will  surely  come. 

On  the  other  hand,  those  of  us  who  are  not  particularly  affected 
by  the  conditions  of  the  times  temporally  have  a  most  definite 
responsibility  in  that  we  should  be  susceptible  to  the  lessons  of  this 
great  program  :  First,  the  lesson  of  thrift,  wherein  through  the  prac- 
tice of  conservative  and  careful  principles,  we  shall  safeguard  our 
private  resources  against  days  of  future  need  and  depression. 

THE  FAST  OFFERING  PLAN 

The  matter  of  financing  this  great  program  rests  squarely  upon 
the  shoulders  of  members  of  the  Church.  The  means  and  ways  of 
such  financing  come  from  divine  sources,  for  the  Lord  has  indicated 
His  desires  relative  to  taking  care  of  those  who  are  in  need.  The 
Lord's  method  of  financing  the  Church  Welfare  Program  is  the 
Fast  Offering  Plan,  which  has  already  been  mentioned  by  Elder 
George  F.  Richards  and  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  This  is  a  plan  pregnant  with  enriching  blessings  for 
those  who  observe  it,  the  most  equitable  and  orderly  system  ever 
given  to  man  whereby  individuals  contribute  according  to  their 
resources :  To  abstain  from  two  meals  on  the  first  Sunday  of  each 
month,  the  equivalent  in  cash  or  commodities  to  be  presented  to  the 
Bishop  in  order  that  there  might  be  provisions  in  the  storehouse  of 
the  Lord  for  any  who  might  be  hungry  or  cold.  This  plan  provides 
a  blessing  for  the  donor.  It  is  a  physical  sacrifice  for  the  receiving 
of  a  spiritual  blessing.  It  places  the  body  under  subjection  to  the  will 
of  the  Lord,  establishes  closer  relationship  between  man  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  which  assures  a  high  degree  of  spirituality,  a  blessing 
so  much  needed  in  the  world  today.  It  creates  a  prayerful  attitude 
and  provides  an  opportunity,  as  Paul  declared,  for  the  practice  of 
pure  and  undefiled  religion,  in  visiting  the  fatherless  and  the  widows, 
and  keeping  themselves  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world.  By  far 
the  greatest  spiritual  blessing  derived  from  the  observance  of  this 
plan  is  the  gift  of  testimony.  No  greater  privilege  is  offered  to  the 


110  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

membership  of  this  Church  than  the  one  afforded  the  first  Sunday  of 
each  month  to  contribute  of  our  resources  to  those  who  are  in  dis- 
tress, to  pray  and  fast,  and  to  bear  testimony  of  the  goodness  of  the 
Lord  unto  us. 

The  spirit  of  testimony  is  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Any 
individual  who  rises  to  his  feet  and  declares  that  he  knows  that  God 
lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet, 
does  so  under  the  power  and  influence  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Brigham 
Young  declared  that  no  man  could  testify  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ 
only  by  and  through  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

The  temporal  side  of  the  Fast  offering  plan  is  so  practical,  equit- 
able, and  just  that  it  places  no  undue  burden  on  any  individual  be 
he  rich  or  poor.  It  is  interesting  to  note  that  the  Fast  offering  per 
capita  for  the  Church  in  1925  was  22  cents.  In  1939  it  reached  the  all  high 
of  82  cents.  Remarkable  progress  has  been  made.  But  an  analysis  of  the 
observance  of  the  Fast  offering  plan  proves  we  have  hardly  scratched 
the  great  field  of  possibilities  in  the  Fast  offering  plan. 

Considering  the  Fast  offering  per  capita  of  1938  based  on  ab- 
staining from  24  meals  a  year  gives  us  a  meal  cost  of  3j^  cents.  It 
is  obvious  that  no  meal  can  be  served  for  3^2  cents  which  contains  a 
balanced  and  adequate  diet.  The  United  States  army  meal  cost  for 
this  area  averages  from  13  cents  to  17  cents  per  meal.  The  quartermaster 
department  of  the  United  States  army  is  a  careful  buyer.  It  buys  the 
best.  It  buys  as  closely  as  it  can,  and  yet  meal  costs  average  from 
13  cents  to  17  cents. 

One  of  the  largest  hospitals  in  Salt  Lake  City  serves  fifteen 
hundred  meals  daily,  or  forty-five  thousand  per  month  at  an  average 
cost  of  20  cents  per  meal.  It  is  safe  to  assume  that  the  average  family  meal 
should  cost  at  least  15  cents.  This  cost  does  not  pertain  to  the  Church  as 
a  whole,  as  there  are  families  where  meal  costs  run  from  30  cents  to  40 
cents.  But  for  the  sake  of  comparison,  we  may  use  a  meal  cost  of  15  cents. 
If  we  abstained  from  two  meals  monthly  at  the  rate  of  15  cents  per  meal, 
this  would  make  a  per  capita  of  30  cents  per  month,  or  $3.60  per  year, 
approximately  four  and  one-half  times  as  much  as  was  contributed 
in  1939.  Supposing  the  entire  membership  of  the  Church  were  to 
fully  observe  the  Fast  offering  plan  as  revealed  to  us  by  the  Lord, 
abstaining  from  two  meals  per  month,  there  would  be  available 
annually  a  Fast  offering  sum  of  $2,880,000.  On  the  other  hand,  may 
we  assume  that  only  500,000  members  of  the  Church  observe  the 
Fast  offering  plan,  based  on  the  cost  of  15  cents  per  meal,  two  meals  each 
month  or,  a  per  capita  of  $3.60  per  year,  this  would  provide  an  annual 
fund  of  $1,800,000.  With  this  amount  available  in  the  Wards,  Stakes, 
and  Regions  of  the  Church,  the  Welfare  Program  would  go  forward 
by  leaps  and  bounds.  In  addition  thereto,  many  more  new  work 
projects  would  be  inaugurated.  It  would  be  possible  to  assist  in  the 
establishment  of  industries  which  would  utilize  the  dormant  re-^ 
sources  of  this  state  and  bring  into  gainful  employment  hundreds, 
of  our  brothers  and  sisters, 


ELDER  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


111 


Aside  from  all  of  the  possibilities  of  providing  adequate  relief  and 
employment  for  our  people,  the  finest  opportunity  provided  for  the 
Church  is  that  of  leadership  in  a  world  floundering  and  gradually 
burying  itself  in  the  sea  of  distress,  poor  leadership,  and  destruction. 

LOVE  FOR  GOD  SHOWN  BY  SERVICE 

We  declare  a  love  for  God  with  all  our  hearts,  minds,  and  souls. 
We  know  definitely  that  in  our  hearts  a  love  for  neighbors  should 
exist,  but  love  of  God  is  only  genuine,  heartfelt,  and  real  when 
actual  service  is  rendered  to  our  Father's  children,  our  neighbors. 
The  Apostle  John  declared :  "He  that  loveth  not,  knoweth  not  God, 
for  God  is  love.  If  a  man  saith  he  loves  me  and  hateth  his  brother, 
he.  is  a  liar,  for  he  that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen, 
how  can  he  love  God  whom  he  hath  not  seen?" 

God's  revealed  plan  for  the  caring  of  the  unfortunate  neither 
bankrupts  nations,  states,  communities,  churches  nor  individuals,  but 
builds  them  up  in  faith  and  service  to  mankind.  Love  for  God  and 
love  for  neighbor  will  hasten  the  day  when  the  King  of  kings  shall 
rule  and  all  men  shall  be  equal. 

In  the  78th  Section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  the  Lord 
again  declares  to  us  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith : 

That  you  may  be  equal  in  the  bonds  of  heavenly  things,  yea,  and 
earthly  things  also,  for  the  obtaining  of  heavenly  things. 

For  if  ye  are  not  equal  in  earthly  things  ye  cannot  be  equal  in 
obtaining  heavenly  things ; 

For  if  ye  will  that  I  give  unto  you  a  place  in  the  celestial  world, 
you  must  prepare  yourselves  by  doing  the  things  which  I  have  com- 
manded you  and  required  of  you. 

True  it  is  that  the  Lord  has  required  baptism  of  us,  work  for  the 
dead  and  all  other  ordinances  and  principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ;  but  He  requires  above  all  else  that  we  shall  love  Him  and 
love  His  children,  our  neighbors,  by  rendering  a  service  which  will 
provide  temporal  and  spiritual  rehabilitation. 

THE  WORDS  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

May  God  bless  and  so  strengthen  us  that  when  the  day  of  ac 
counting  comes,  each  one  of  us  may  stand  before  a  resurrected 
Savior  to  give  an  account  of  our  stewardship ;  and  may  He  say  unto 
us,  "For  I  was  an  hungered  and  ye  gave  me  meat ;  I  was  thirsty  and 
ye  gave  me  drink;  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me  in;  naked  and 
ye  clothed  me ;  I  was  sick  and  ye  visited  me ;  I  was  in  prison,  and  ye 
came  unto  me.  Then  shall  the  righteous  answer  him  saying,  'Lord 
when  saw  we  Thee  an  hungered  and  took  Thee  in,  or  naked  and 
clothed  Thee;  or  when  saw  we  Thee  sick  or  in  prison  and  came 
unto  Thee?'  And  then  shall  the  King  answer  and  say  unto  them, 
'Verily,  I  say  unto  you,  inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of 
the  least  of  these,  my  .brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me.'  " 

May  the  Lord  bles"s  us,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


112  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

During  the  period  from  10 :30  to  11 :00  a.  m.,  a  program  of  choral 
and  organ  music  was  presented  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
as  part  of  the  proceedings  of  the  General  Conference,  and  broadcast 
through  the  courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia  Broadcasting 
Company's  network,  throughout  the  United  States  and  Canada,  and 
by  means  of  short  wave  to  other  points.  This  broadcast  originated 
over  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake  City.  The  following  program  was 
given : 


"Awake  the  Harp," — Creation — (Haydn)   Choir 

"Toccata  in  D"  (Kinder)   Organ 

"Out  of  the  Silence"  (Jenkins)  Choir 

"O  My  Father"  (Arranged  by  Asper)  Organ 


"Behold,  God  the  Lord  Passed  By,"— Elijah— { Mendelssohn 

 Choir 

"The  Lord  Bless  You  and  Keep  You"  (Lutkin)  Male  Voices 

The  singing  of  the  Choir  was  under  the  direction  of  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall.  Organ  accompaniments  and  Organ  solo  presentations 
were  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper.  The  spoken  word  was  by  Richard  L. 
Evans. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  ihe  First  Presidency 

President  Grant  is  "listening  in"  this  morning,  and  we  wish  to 
assure  him  that  this  comes  to  him  with  the  loyalty,  trust,  faith, 
confidence,  and  love  of  the  whole  Church. 


The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
My  brethren  and  sisters : 

APPRECIATION  FOR  BLESSINGS 

There  are  few,  if  any  persons  in  this  congregation  who  are  more  truly 
appreciative  than  I  of  the  privilege  of  attending  this  Conference.  Until 
just  recently  it  was  doubtful  whether  I  should  be  able  to  do  so.  This  morn- 
ing I  stand  before  you  practically  a  well  man.  I  thank  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  many  friends,  for  your  thoughtful  solicitations,  your 
faith  and  prayers. 

I  am  deeply  grateful  this  morning  for  President  Grant's  remarkable 
improvement  in  health,  I  was  with  him  when  he  went  from  the  California 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


113 


Mission  Home  to  the  St.  Vincent's  Hospital  February  5,  and  thereafter 
for  ten  days  or  more  visited  him  almost  daily.  I  met  in  council  with  him 
and  President  Oark  March  23  and  noted  how  greatly  he  had  improved. 
Truly,  the  Lord  has  answered  the  prayers  offered  in  his  behalf.  He  is 
a  great  and  inspired  leader ;  and  most  earnestly  we  pray  for  the  prolonga- 
tion of  his  life,  and  his  enjoyment  of  health  and  happiness. 

I  have  been  made  happy  by  the  messages  given  by  the  General  Au- 
thorities and  the  Mission  Presidents. 

With  you  I  rejoiced  in  the  excellent  singing  of  choral  groups  of 
young  people  from  the  Brigham  Young  University  and  the  Ricks  College. 
I  am  thankful  that  we  have  these  Church  schools.  I  know  their  power 
for  good. 

The  service  rendered  each  week  by  the  officers  and  members  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  is  to  the  Church  and  the  nation  what  the  glorious  sun- 
shine this  morning  is  to  the  world — it  gives  joy  and  peace  to  a  million 
hearts. 

INCREASE  OF  ACTIVITY  IN  THE  CHURCH 

It  is  a  source  of  true  satisfaction  to  note  the  evidences  of  increased 
activity  throughout  the  Church — in  Priesthood  quorums ;  in  Auxiliary 
associations ;  in  the  Church  Welfare  Plan ;  in  missionary  work  at  home 
and  in  the  field ;  in  better  Ward  teaching ;  in  Temple  work ;  in  the  large 
number  of  young  people  who  are  participating  in  Church  duties,  and  who 
thereby  are  becoming  anchored  in  the  Truth,  for  it  is  an  evidence  of  the 
truth  of  this  work  that  the  more  service  you  render  the  happier  you  are. 
"If  ye  do,  ye  shall  know"  is  axiomatic  as  it  pertains  to  the  Gospel. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  every  one  of  you  for  your  integrity 
and  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord !  It  is  an  honor  and  a  continual  joy 
to  be  associated  with  you  in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

In  my  message  to  you  this  morning  I  wish  to  acknowledge  God's 
kindness  and  mercy  to  His  children  everywhere,  and  to  express  my  abid- 
ing faith  in  the  ultimate  triumph  of  the  Gospel,  and  of  the  final  victory 
of  Right  over  Wrong. 

EVILS  OF  WAR 

Believing  this,  I  am  not  blind  to  the  fact  that  in  the  attitude  of  man- 
kind generally,  Truth  seems  to  be  "Forever  on  the  scaffold,  Wrong  for- 
ever on  the  throne.'" 

The  world  is  truly  in  turmoil,  and  there  are  those  who  fear  modern 
civilization  is  dangerously  near  destruction.  The  fact  is  that  since  history 
began  strife,  wickedness,  and  war  have  existed  among  human  beings, 
who  it  seems  are  too  selfish  and  ambitious  to  learn  what  is  best  for  them. 
As  indicative  of  the  slow  progress  of  the  world  in  regard  especially  to 
the  evil  of  war  listen  to  these  extracts  taken  from  accounts  of  conquests 
in  widely  separated  eras : 

Shrieks  and  wailing,  and  every  other  species  of  outcry  that  comes 
from  grief,  terror,  and  despair  arose  from  within  (the  palace)  ;  and  such 
spectators  as  had  the  heart  to  look  continuously  upon  the  spectacle,  could 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 


see  wretched  men  running  to  and  fro,  and  virgins  clinging  to  altars  for 
protection,  and  frantic  mothers  vainly  endeavoring  to  find  hiding  places 
for  themselves  and  their  helpless  children. 

That  is  quoted  from  a  description  of  the  destruction  of  a  city  1200 
years  before  the  Christian  Era. 
Now  listen  to  this : 

Bodies  are  not  pleasant  sights  under  any  circumstances.  When  they 
are  of  young  women,  torn  to  pieces  by  bombs,  sometimes  without  heads 
or  arms  or  legs,  they  are  horrible  to  behold.    This  was  sheer  horror. 

Conquered  men  in  the  ruined  city  were  executed.  Men  and  women 
were  driven  to  the  public  squares  to  watch  the  executions. 

That  is  taken  from  accounts  of  eye-witnesses  of  the  bombing  of  a  city 
in  September  in  the  year  of  our  Lord  1939! 

Manifestly,  there  has  not  been  much  cessation  of  man's  "inhumanity 
to  man"  in  3,000  years !  Notwithstanding  this,  I  believe  that  Right  and 
Truth  will  eventually  triumph. 


Today  as  we  behold  nations  grasping  at  one  another's  throats,  the 
strong  crushing  the  weak,  we  are  prone  to  think  that  righteousness  among 
nations  is  waning.  In  our  own  country,  we  know  that  the  struggle  is  still 
rife  between  capital  and  labor ;  that  enemies  to  our  democratic  institu- 
tions are  becoming  more  blatant ;  we  see  political  demagogues  more  seem- 
ingly successful,  drunkenness  and  immorality  still  flauntingly  defiant ;  and 
we  wonder  whether  mankind  is  growing  better  or  worse,  in  private  life 
unemployment,  disappointments,  adversity,  sickness,  and  sorrow  make  us 
discouraged  and  sometimes  despondent. 

Still  I  am  confident  that  Truth  will  yet  prevail,  and  in  that  confidence 
say  with  the  Psalmist : 

Be  of  good  courage,  and  He  shall  strengthen  your  heart,  all  ye  that 
hope  in  the  Lord. 

We  may  take  courage  in  what  I  believe  is  a  fact,  that  in  the  hearts  of 
more  millions  of  honest  men  and  women  than  ever  before  in  the  history 
of  the  world,  war  is  abhorrent.  War  has  lost  its  false  glamour  and  boasted 
glory.  Such  an  attitude  at  least  keeps  alive  our  hope  for  the  dawning  of 
that  day  when  men  "shall  beat  their  swords  into  plowshares,  and  their 
spears  into  pruninghooks.  Nation  shall  not  lift  up  sword  against  nation, 
neither  shall  they  learn  war  any  more."  (Isaiah  2:4) 


How  utterly  foolish  men  are  to  quarrel,  fight,  and  cause  misery, 
destruction,  and  death  when  the  gifts  of  a  divine  and  loving  Father  are 
all  around  us  for  the  asking — are  already  in  our  possession  if  we  would 
but  recognize  them.    Christ's  invitation  is  still  extended  to  all  peoples : 


COURAGE  NEEDED  AMIDST  CONFLICT 


PEACE  THROUGH  JESUS  CHRIST 


Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labor  and  are  heavy  laden,  and  I  will  give 
you  rest. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


115 


Take  my  yoke  upon  you,  and  learn  of  me;  for  I  am  meek  and  lowly 
in  heart;  and  ye  shall  find  lest  unlo  your  souls. 

For  my  yoke  is  easy,  and  my  burden  is  light.    (Matthew  11 :28,  30.) 

I  am  as  sure  as  that  I  am  speaking  to  you  that  the  peace  and  happiness 
of  mankind  lie  in  the  acceptance  of  Jesus  Christ  as  Redeemer  and  Savior. 
As  Peter  declared  1900  years  ago,  so  I  testify  to  the  world  today  that 
there  is  "none  other  name  under  heaven  given  among  men  whereby  we 
must  be  saved." 

The  principles  of  the  Gospel  are  the  surest,  safest  guide  to  mortal 
man.  Christ  is  the  light  to  humanity.  In  that  light  man  sees  his  way 
clearly.  When  it  is  rejected,  the  soul  of  man  stumbles  in  darkness.  No 
person,  no  group,  no  nation  can  achieve  true  success  without  following 
Him  who  said : 

I  am  the  light  of  the  world ;  he  that  f  olloweth  me  shall  not  walk  in 
darkness,  but  shall  have  the  light  of  life.     (John  8:12.) 

It  is  a  sad  thing  when  individuals  and  nations  extinguish  that  light — 
when  Christ  and  His  Gospel  are  supplanted  by  the  law  of  the  jungle  and 
the  strength  of  the  sword.  The  chief  tragedy  in  the  world  at  the  present 
time  is  its  disbelief  in  God's  goodness,  and  its  lack  of  faith  in  the  teach- 
ings and  doctrines  of  the  Gospel. 

To  all  who  believe  in  a  living,  personal  God  and  His  divine  Truth, 
life  can  be  so  delightful  and  beautiful. 

THE  BLESSING  OF  LIFE 

As  a  matter  of  fact,  it's  glorious  just  to  be  alive.  Joy,  even  ecstasy, 
can  be  experienced  in  the  consciousness  of  existence.  There  is  supreme 
satisfaction  in  sensing  one's  individual  entity,  and  in  realizing  that  that 
entity  is  part  of  God's  great  creative  plan.  There  are  none  so  poor,  none 
so  rich,  sick  or  maimed  who  may  not  be  conscious  of  this  relationship. 

I  know  that  for  not  a  few  of  us  the  true  joy  of  living  is  overcast  by 
trials,  failures,  worries,  and  perplexities  incident  to  making  a  living  and 
attempting  to  achieve  success.  Tear-bedimmed  eyes  are  often  blind  to 
the  beauties  that  surround  us.  Life  sometimes  seems  a  parched  and  bar- 
ren desert,  when,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  there  is  comfort  even  happiness 
within  our  grasp  if  we  could  or  would  but  reach  for  it. 

It  is  possible  for  us  to  learn  with  Stanton  that— 

This  world  o'  God's  is  brighter  than 

We  ever  dream  or  know ; 
Its  burdens'  growin'  lighter — 

An'  it's  love  that  makes  'em  so ! 
An'  I'm  thankful  that  I'm  livin' 

Where  love's  blessedness  I  see, 
'Neath  a  Heaven  that's  forgivin' 

Where  the  bells  ring  'Home'  to  me ! 

The  Lord  has  given  us  life,  and  eternal  life  is  His  greatest  gift  to 

nian. 


116  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  7  Third  Day 


THE  BLESSINGS  OF  FELLOWSHIP 

Among  life's  sweetest  blessings  is  fellowship  with  men  and  women 
whose  ideals  and  aspirations  are  high  and  noble.  Next  to  a  sense  of  a 
kinship  with  God  comes  the  helpfulness,  encouragement,  and  inspiration 
of  friends.  Friendship  is  a  sacred  possession.  As  air,  water  and  sunshine 
to  flowers,  trees,  and  verdure,  so  smiles,  sympathy  and  love  of  friends 
to  the  daily  life  of  man.  "To  live,  laugh,  love  one's  friends,  and  be  loved 
by  them  is  to  bask  in  the  sunshine  of  life."  One  of  the  principal  reasons 
which  the  Lord  had  for  establishing  His  Church  is  to  give  all  persons  high 
and  low,  rich  and  poor,  strong  and  feeble  an  opportunity  to  associate 
with  their  fellowmen  in  an  atmosphere  of  uplifting,  religious  fellowship. 
This  may  be  found  in  Priesthood  quorums,  Auxiliaries,  Sacrament 
meetings.  He  who  neglects  these  opportunities,  who  fails  to  take  advan- 
tage of  them,  to  that  extent  starves  his  own  soul.  Who  among  you  who 
were  numbered  among  the  more  than  9,000  in  attendance  at  the  General 
Priesthood  meeting  last  night  did  not  thrill  in  the  realization  of  your  being 
one  in  that  great  brotherhood  of  Christ.  To  what  spiritual  heights  true 
fellowship  may  lift  us  may  be  glimpsed  by  John  the  Beloved's  ecstatic 
remark:  "I  know  that  I  have  passed  from  death  unto  life,  because  I 
love  the  brethren." 

FREE  AGENCY  A  GIFT  FROM  GOD 

But  the  gift  which  I  desire  more  particularly  to  call  to  your  attention 
this  morning  is  a  principle  of  the  Gospel  too  seldom  emphasized,  but 
which  is  a  blessing  co-existent  with  man's  creation.  I  refer  to  the  funda- 
mental principle  of  the  Gospel,  Free  Agency.  References  in  the  Scrip- 
tures show  that  this  principle  is  (1)  essential  to  man's  salvation;  and, 
(2)  may  become  a  measuring  rod  by  which  the  actions  of  men,  of  organi- 
zations, of  nations  may  be  judged. 

Therefore,  cheer  up  your  hearts,  and  remember  that  ye  are  free  to 
act  for  yourselves — to  choose  the  way  of  everlasting  death  or  the  way  of 
eternal  life.   (II  Nephi  10:23.) 

For  the  earth  is  full,  and  there  is  enough  and  to  spare;  yea,  I  pre- 
pared all  things,  and  have  given  unto  the  children  of  men  to  be  agents 
unto  themselves.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  104:17.) 

Behold,  here  is  the  agency  of  man,  and  here  is  the  condemnation  of 
man;  because  that  which  was  from  the  beginning  is  plainly  manifest  unto 
them,  and  they  receive  not  the  light.    (Doctrine  and  Covenants  93:31.) 

Therefore  it  is  not  right  that  any  man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to 
another.  And  for  this  purpose  have  I  established  the  Constitution  of  this 
land,  by  the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised  up  unto  this  very  purpose, 
and  redeemed  the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood.  (Doctrine  and  Covenants 
101 :79, 80.) 

Again : 

My  independence  is  sacred  to  me— it  is  a  portion  of  that  same  Deity 
that  rules  in  the  Heavens.  There  is  not  a  being  upon  the  face  of  the 
earth  who  is  made  in  the  image  of  God,  who  stands  erect  and  is  organ- 
ized as  God  is,  that  should  be  deprived  of  the  free  exercise  of  his  agency 
so  far  as  he  does  not  infringe  upon  others'  rights,  save  by  good  advice 
and  a  good  example.    (Brigham  Young.) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  0.  McKAY 


117 


It  is  true  that  faith  is  an  essential  principle  in  all  progress,  not  spirit- 
ual progress  only,  but  to  all  progress.  But  next  to  faith  as  an  essential 
to  man's  advancement  is  Free  Agency. 

The  history  of  the  world  with  all  its  contention  and  strife  is  largely 
an  account  of  man's  effort  to  free  himself  from  bondage  and  usurpation, 
or  to  protect  himself  in  the  freedom  he  possessed. 

DANGERS  SEEN  IN  CERTAIN  TYPES  OF  GOVERNMENT 

In  the  light  of  the  principle  of  Free  Agency,  it  is  not  difficult  to  dis- 
tinguish between  the  right  and  the  wrong  system  of  government.  It  is 
not  difficult  to  tell  when  an  organization  transcends  its  bounds,  and  be- 
comes despotic.  How  the  people's  rights  may  be  curtailed  by  legislation 
here  in  the  United  States  is  emphasized  in  a  timely  editorial  printed  in  the 
March  15th  issue  of  the  Los  Angeles  Times  under  the  caption  "The 
March  of  Absolutism." 

"Absolutism  in  politics,"  it  says: 

May  be  defined  as  "a  system  of  government  in  which  public  power  is 
vested  in  some  person  or  persons,  unchecked  and  uncontrolled  by  any 
law,  institution,  constitutional  device  or  coordinate  body."  The  American 
system,  on  the  other  hand,  insists  on  the  separation  of  powers,  legislative, 
executive,  and  judicial,  and  the  freedom  of  the  individual.  It  demands  and 
maintains  the  supremacy  of  the  law.  This  means  that  what  is  done 
officially  must  conform  to  law,  exactly  as  much  as  what  is  done  un- 
officially by  private  individuals. 

The  administrative  commission  is  a  radical  departure  from  the 
American  system.  It  measurably  and  sometimes  wholly  consolidates  the 
three  separate  powers  of  government  and  clothes  its  metabers  with  un- 
controlled power  to  hear,  to  adjudicate,  and  to  punish.  In  other  words, 
it  makes  us  subject  to  "some  person  or  persons"  who  are  free  to  act  without 
the  restraint  of  any  law,  guided  solely  by  their  own  discretion.  No  one 
who  has  had  any  experience  with  an  administrative  commission  will 
challenge  this. 

What  else  do  we  find  in  the  totalitarian  governments  of  Europe? 
There,  it  is  simply  the  placing  of  this  power  in  the  hands  of  one  man,  a 
Hitler  or  a  Stalin,  the  area  of  whose  government  is  practically  unlimited. 
The  limitation  of  the  area  within  which  a  given  commission  operates  does 
not  change  the  power ;  it  is,  within  the  designated  limits,  despotic,  that  is, 
absolute.  Recent  Federal  labor  practice  forbids  the  employer's  resort  to 
the  courts  until  a  commission  has  determined  the  matter,  and  the  dis- 
position of  the  authorities  is  to  be  chary  of  any  review  by  the  courts. 
Under  some  circumstances  the  employer  is  even  denied  access  to  the 
board;  he  must  stand  aside,  his  business  tied  up,  until  one  of  the  con- 
tending labor  organizations  invokes  the  board's  action. 

In  the  courts,  like  all  other  litigants,  employer  and  employee  are 
treated  as  equals.  If  either  has  infringed  the  rights  of  the  other,  the 
wronged  is  entitled  to  reparation,  to  be  placed  as  near  as  may  be  in  the 
position  he  had  before  the  injury.  The  administrative  commission  is  a 
departure  from  this  in  both  principle  and  practice.  It  attempts  the  ap- 
praisal of  what  it  calls  social  values,  exalts  the  claims  and  values  of  labor 
above  business  and  sets  the  interests  of  the  labor  organization  above  the 
interests  of  the  individual  workingman.  It  is  a  complete  abandonment 
of  the  Anglo-American  legal  tradition. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Dag 

FREEDOM  A  GLORIOUS  PRIVILEGE 

To  live  in  a  land  in  which  each  individual  has  the  right  to  life  and 
liberty  is  a  glorious  privilege. 

If  any  man  in  this  country  prefers  a  government  ruled  by  a  dictator, 
he  should  go  where  the  dictator  rules ;  but  here  in  the  United  States  of 
America  the  people  believe  in  a  government  as  Abraham  Lincoln  declared, 
"of  the  people,  by  the  people,  and  for  the  people." 

It  is  well  ever  to  keep  in  mind  the  fact  that  the  State  exists  for  the  in- 
dividual ;  not  the  individual  for  the  State.  Jesus  sought  to  perfect  society 
by  perfecting  the  individual,  and  only  by  the  exercising  of  Free  Agency 
can  the  individual  even  approach  perfection. 

Man's  Free  Agency  is  an  eternal  principle  of  progress,  and  any  form 
of  government  that  curtails  or  inhibits  its  free  exercise  is  wrong — Satan's 
plan  in  the  beginning  was  one  of  coercion,  and  it  was  rejected,  because 
he  sought  to  destroy  the  agency  of  man  which  God  had  given  him. 

When  a  man  uses  this  God-given  right  to  encroach  upon  the  rights 
of  another,  he  commits  a  wrong.  Liberty  becomes  license,  and  the  man 
a  transgressor.  It  is  the  function  of  the  State  to  curtail  the  violator,  and 
to  protect  the  violated. 

A  WARNING  TO  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

Latter-day  Saints  should  avoid  affiliation  with  any  committee,  any 
group,  any  union  that  would,  through  coercion  or  force,  deprive  a  person 
of  the  free  exercise  of  his  or  her  freedom  of  choice.  It  is  understood, 
of  course,  that  any  person  is  free  to  join  a  union,  when  to  do  so  favors 
his  best  interests ;  but  no  one  should  be  compelled  to  join,  or  be  deprived 
of  any  right  as  a  citizen,  including  the  right  to  honest  labor,  if  he  chooses 
not  to  become  a  member  of  a  union  or  specially  organized  group. 

FAITH  IN  GOD  BRINGS  PEACE 

Yes,  we  are  living  in  turbulent  times,  the  most  distressing  phase  of 
which  is  the  rejection  of  Christ  by  the  leaders  and  dictators  of  some  Euro- 
pean nations.  But  if  you  have  faith  in  God  you  must  believe  as  David 
Starr  Jordan  has  aptly  said,  "in  the  final  inevitable  triumph  of  Truth," 
and  I  bear  witness  to  the  world  in  all  sincerity  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  as  restored  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  true  and  embraces  all 
Truth.  Paraphrasing  the  author  just  quoted,  keep  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel  as  your  guide,  your  companion,  your  ally  and  inspiration,  and  you 
will  tingle  with  the  consciousness  of  your  kinship  with  the  Infinite,  and 
all  petty  trials,  sorrows,  and  sufferings  of  life  will  fade  away  as  temporary 
harmless  visions  seen  in  a  dream. 

My  God  give  us  courage  to  choose  the  right,  ability  to  appreciate 
the  good  things  of  life,  and  power  faithfully  to  serve  Him  and  our  fellow- 
men,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our  Lord.  Amen. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


119 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  have  been  wondering  whether  I  have  ever  attended  a  Confer- 
ence when  the  influence  of  the  Spirit  of  God  has  been  made  so  mani- 
fest as  at  this  gathering. 

THE  POWER  OF  THE  PRIESTHOOD 

This  is  a  wonderful  Church,  and  as  the  years  go  by  that  truth 
will  be  known  better  in  all  parts  of  this  world.  At  the  wonderful 
Priesthood  meeting  held  in  this  building,  with  nearly  every  seat 
filled,  I  thought  to  myself,  what  a  marvelous  power!  With  thaft: 
power  directed  by  our  Heavenly  Father  Himself,  this  Church  will  not 
only  grow  in  numbers,  but  will  grow  in  influence  among  the  people 
of  the  world. 

CHARITY  A  CHRISTIAN  VIRTUE 

Charity- — we  believe  in  that  grand  principle,  and  not  only 
believe  in  it  but  manifest  our  belief  in  action  in  the  many  ways  pro- 
vided for  by  the  Gospel.  Charity  has  been  a  great  problem  that 
every  dispensation  has  had  to  meet  in  some  way.  God  has  pro- 
vided the  way,  and  this  people,  the  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  are  living  closer  to  that  law,  I  am  quite 
sure,  than  any  other  people  in  the  world.  Charity  of  the  proper 
kind  and  spirit  is  an  essential  virtue  in  all  Christian  living. 

QUOTATIONS  FROM  SCRIPTURE 

In  Corinthians,  chapter  thirteen,  I  find  these  words : 

Though  I  speak  with  the  tongues  of  men  and  of  angels,  and  have 
not  charity,  I  am  become  as  sounding  brass,  or  a  tinkling  cymbal. 

And  though  I  have  the  gift  of  prophecy,  and  understand  all 
mysteries,  and  all  knowledge;  and  though  I  have  all  faith,  so  that  I 
could  remove  mountains,  and  have  not  charity,  I  am  nothing.  *  *  * 

And  now  abideth  faith,  hope,  charity,  these  three;  but  the  greatest 
of  these  is  charity. 

Let  all  our  things  be  done  with  charity. 

Charity  suffereth  long,  and  is  kind;  charity  envieth  not;  charity 
vaunteth  not  itself,  is  not  puffed  up. 

Doth  not  behave  itself  unseemly,  seeketh  not  her  own,  is  not  easily 
provoked,  thinketh  no  evil. 

Rejoiceth  not  in  iniquity,  but  rejoiceth  in  the  truth; 

Beareth  all  things,  believeth  all  things,  hopeth  all  things,  endureth 
all  things. 

I  find  in  the  third  chapter  of  Colossians  it  says  : 

Forbearing  one  another,  and  forgiving  one  another,  if  any  man 
have  a  quarrel  against  any;  even  as  Christ  forgave  you,  so  also  do  ye. 

And  above  all  these  things  put  on  charity,  which  is  the  bond  of 
perfectness. 


120  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

And  let  the  peace  of  God  rule  in  your  hearts,  to  the  which  also 
ye  are  called  in  one  body;  and  be  ye  thankful. 

Let  the  word  of  Christ  dwell  in  you  richly  in  all  wisdom;  teaching 
and  admonishing  one  another  in  psalms  and  hymns  and  spiritual 
songs,  singing  with  grace  in  your  hearts  to  the  Lord. 

And  whatsoever  ye  do  in  word  or  deed,  do  all  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord  Jesus,  giving  thanks  to  God  and  the  Father  by  him. 

The  psalm  of  David  asks : 

Lord,  who  shall  abide  in  thy  tabernacle?  Who  shall  dwell  in 
thy  holy  hill?" 

The  answer  was : 

He  that  walketh  uprightly,  and  worketh  righteousness,  and  speak- 
eth  the  truth  in  his  heart. 

He  that  backbiteth  not  with  his  tongue,  nor  doeth  evil  to  his 
neighbor,  nor  taketh  up  a  reproach  against  his  neighbor. 

Lack  of  charity  might  be  blamed  for  much  that  is  wrong  in  the 
world  today,  for  if  all  the  people  were  tolerant  of  the  faults  and  weak- 
nesses of  others,  and  would  approach  them  with  charity  and  love  in 
their  hearts,  it  would  be  much  easier  to  solve  the  problems  con- 
fronting this  old  world  of  ours  today,  and  which  are  threatening  our 
civilization. 

THE  GOSPEL  A  CURE  FOR  ILLS  OF  WORLD 

The  only  solution  to  these  perplexing  questions  is  to  be  found 
in  the  teachings  of  the  Master.  He  gave  to  the  world  a  philosophy 
of  life  that  will  bring  to  the  world  the  peace  and  happiness  for  which 
humanity  has  been  seeking  through  all  the  ages.  His  was  a  Gospel 
of  peace,  love  and  charity,  and  we  must  turn  to  His  teachings.  He 
was  the  Prince  of  Peace,  and  the  nations  which  persist  in  ignoring 
His  counsel  and  His  warnings  are  following  the  path  that  leads  to 
destruction  and  decay.  The  last  is  a  quotation. 

John,  in  the  fourth  chapter  of  his  first  epistle,  says: 

Let  us  love  one  another;  for  love  is  of  God;  and  every  one  that 
loveth  is  born  of  God,  and  knoweth  God.  *  *  * 

If  God  so  loved  us,  we  ought  also  to  love  one  another.  *  *  * 

If  a  man  say,  I  love  God,  and  hateth  his  brother,  he  is  a  liar;  for 
he  that  loveth  not  his  brother  whom  he  hath  seen,  how  can  he  love 
God  whom  he  hath  not  seen? 

And  this  commandment  have  we  from  Him,  that  he  who  loveth 
God  love  his  brother  also. 

AARON  AND  MIRIAM  REBUKED 

When  Moses  married  the  Ethopian  woman,  as  related  in  Num- 
bers, twelfth  chapter,  Miriam  and  Aaron  complained  of  it  and  said : 

Hath  the  Lord  indeed  spoken  only  by  Moses?  Hath  he  not  spoken 
also  by  us?   And  the  Lord  heard  it.  *  *  * 

And  the  Lord  spake  suddenly  unto  Moses,  and  unto  Aaron,  and 
unto  Miriam:  Come  out  ye  three  unto  the  tabernacle  of  the  congre- 
gation.   And  they  three  came  out. 

And  the  Lord  came  down  in  the  pillar  of  the  cloud,  and  stood  in 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT 


121 


the  door  of  the  tabernacle,  and  called  Aaron  and  Miriam;  and  they 
both  came  forth. 

And  he  said :  Hear  now  my  words :  If  there  be  a  prophet  among 
you,  I  the  Lord  will  make  myself  known  unto  him  in  a  vision,  and 
will  speak  unto  him  in  a  dream. 

My  servant  Moses  is  not  so,  who  is  faithful  in  all  mine  house. 

With  him  will  I  speak  mouth  to  mouth,  even  apparently,  and  not  in 
dark  speeches;  and  the  similitude  of  the  Lord  shall  he  behold;  where- 
fore then  were  ye  not  afraid  to  speak  against  my  servant  Moses? 

And  the  anger  of  the  Lord  was  kindled  against  them;  and  he 
departed. 

And  the  cloud  departed  from  off  the  tabernacle;  and  behold, 
Miriam  became  leprous,  white  as  snow,  and  Aaron  looked  upon 
Miriam  and,  behold,  she  was  leprous. 

SAYINGS  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

In  Matthew.,  seventh  chapter,  we  read : 
Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye  shall  be  judged;  and  with 
what  measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again. 

And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote  that  is  in  thy  brother's  eye, 
but  considerest  not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Or  how  wilt  thou  say  to  thy  brother,  let  me  pull  out  the  mote 
out  of  thine  eye;  and,  behold,  a  beam  is  in  thine  own  eye? 

Thou  hypocrite,  first  cast  out  the  beam  out  of  thine  own  eye; 
and  then  shalt  thou  see  clearly  to  cast  out  the  mote  out  of  thy  brother's 
eye. 

God  is  love,  and  he  that  dwelleth  in  love  dwelleth  in  God. 
Herein  is  our  love  made  perfect,  ....  because  as  He  is,  so  are  we  in 
this  world. 

LOVE  WILL  FINALLY  TRIUMPH 

We  should  love  and  speak  the  truth,  but  only  in  love  and  kind- 
ness. Truth  should  ever  extend  the  hand  of  love. 

Who  seeks  for  heaven  alone,  to  save  his  soul, 
May  keep  the  path,  but  will  not  reach  the  goal; 
While  he  who  walks  in  love  may  wander  far, 
Yet  God  will  bring  him  where  the  blessed  are. 

We  should  seek  to  obtain  that  love,  that  charity  which  the 
words  of  the  Apostle  Paul  declared  to  be  so  important.  Only 
by  so  doing  can  the  ills  of  the  world  be  cured.  As  Paul  makes  the 
assertion  that  "Charity  beareth  all  things,  believeth  all  things,  hopeth 
all  things,  endureth  all  things,"  he  gives  us  to  know  that  this  heaven- 
ly attitude,  charity  or  brotherly  love,  will  triumph  and  continue, 
where  most  other  things  fail  or  cease.  He  assures  us,  in  substance, 
that  where  charity  rules,  pride  hangeth  not. 

May  God's  blessings  ever  be  with  us.  May  we  recognize  our 
duties  not  only  as  citizens  of  this  country,  but  as  members  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

May  God  bless  you  all.  May  He  bless  all  undertakings  begun 
by  the  Authorities  of  this  Church  in  carrying  on  His  work,  I  humbly 
ask  at  this  time,  in  the  name  of  the  Master,  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


122  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

BISHOP  MARVIN  O.  ASHTON 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 

I  do  not  know  how  well  you  know  it,  but  it  takes  a  really  strong 
constitution  to  stand  what  some  of  us  have  stood,  expecting  it,  but 
not  knowing  how  soon  it  would  come.  I  have  learned  this  much 
in  my  experience  in  the  Church — I  learned  it  only  a  couple  of  hours 
ago — that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  does  not  stay  in  a  meeting  too  long, 
especially  around  twelve  o'clock.  I  would  not  attempt  by  any  means 
to  do  this  job  all  alone. 

A  TRIBUTE  TO  PRESIDENT  MCKAY 

I  am  thankful  from  the  bottom  of  my  heart,  as  are  you,  to  hear 
the  testimony  again  of  President  McKay.  I  went  on  a  mission  to  the 
same  land  as  did  he.  I  know  how  the  people  in  that  Mission  loved 
him  and  I  know  the  people  of  this  Church  love  him  in  the  same  de- 
gree as  do  the  Scotch  people.  May  the  Lord  lengthen  his  days  that 
he  may  be  an  inspiration  to  all  of  us  for  years  to  come. 

SUSTAINING  OUR  LEADERS 

May  the  Lord  bless  all  of  our  leaders.  May  we  have  the  good 
sense  always  to  pray  for  them  and,  better  than  pray  for  them,  let  us 
sustain  them  in  the  way  we  should  ;  I  ask  these  blessings  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 


The  Choir  sang  an  anthem,  "Hosanna,"  (Jones),  after  which 
the  benediction  was  pronounced  by  Elder  Henry  A.  Gardner,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Palmyra  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  p.  m. 

THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 

The  concluding  session  of  the  Conference  was  held  Sunday 
afternoon,  October  3,  at  2  o'clock. 

As  was  the  condition  at  the  morning  session,  the  great  Taber- 
nacle was  filled  to  capacity,  and  again  thousands  of  people  congre- 
gated in  the  Assembly  Hall  immediately  south  of  the  Tabernacle, 
and  on  the  Tabernacle  grounds,  to  listen  to  the  services  as  they  were 
broadcast  from  the  Tabernacle. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  furnished  the  music  for  this  session 
of  the  Conference,  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director.  Alexander  Schrein- 
er  was  at  the  organ  console. 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


123 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  we  come  now  to  the  opening  of  the 
closing  session  of  the  Conference.  The  building  is  again  crowded  to 
capacity  with  thousands  on  the  outside  who  can  not  get  in. 

The  Choir  sang  an  anothem,  "Lift  Up  Your  Heads,  O  ye  Gates" 
(Handel). 

Elder  Byron  O.  Colton,  President  of  the  Roosevelt  Stake,  of- 
fered the  opening  prayer. 

The  Choir  sang  "All  Hail  the  Power  of  Jesus'  Name"  (Wil- 
liams). 

ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

I  should  like  to  say  a  word  in  support  of  the  beautification  plan 
sponsored  both  by  our  Church  and  the  Centennial  Commission.  I 
can  scarcely  think  of  anything  more  appropriate  as  a  tribute  to  the 
Pioneers  and  their  heroic  struggle.  They  loved  this  land.  It  was 
at  once  their  refuge,  their  home  and  their  destiny.  They  called  it 
Zion  because  that  word  most  nearly  characterized  the  Utopia  of 
safety,  peace,  progress  and  achievement  which  they  sought  to  estab- 
lish. And  a  real  Zion  it  was  to  the  thousands  of  sincere  and  ardent 
men  and  women  who  gathered  here  from  many  nations  to  find  ex- 
pression for  the  loftiest  ideals  and  noblest  purposes  ever  to  be  found 
in  the  human  soul. 

This  country  was  beautiful  when  the  Pioneers  first  came.  It 
was  virgin  territory.  The  hills,  the  streams,  the  forests  and  the 
plains  were  lovely,  just  as  nature  always  is  until  marred  by  the  hand 
of  man.  It  has  taken  nearly  a  century  to  demonstrate  the  natural 
beauty  of  the  country  which  the  Pioneers  chose.  It  may  be  that 
they  themselves  did  not  realize  that  it  was  possessed  of  so  many 
marvelous  scenic  attractions  which  have  come  in  for  appreciation  in 
recent  years.  It  is  doubtful  that  the  variety,  the  grandeur  and  the 
novelty  of  our  natural  scenery  can  be  duplicated  within  equal  space 
anywhere  in  the  entire  world. 

DESCRIPTION  OF  NEARBY  BEAUTY  SPOTS 

I  wish  you  would  take  a  short  trip  with  me.  I  am  a  lover  of 
nature  and  the  great  outdoors,  and  I  have  taken  this  trip  many  times. 
I  might  escort  you  on  many  other  beautiful  excursions  in  our  inter- 
mountain  empire.  I  choose  this  one  merely  as  a  sample.  We  usually 
begin  by  going  to  Fish  Lake,  then  on  to  Bryce  and  the  Grand  Can- 
yon, back  to  Cedar  Breaks  and  down  to  Zion.  The  regard  that  I 
have  for  these  places  has  grown  with  the  years  until  they  have  be- 
come dear  and  sacred.    I  must  tell  you  what  they  mean  to  me. 


124  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

I  love  Fish  Lake  for  her  tranquility.  She  nestles  in  the  pines 
and  quaking  aspens,  cool,  calm  and  inviting.  When  I  row  a  boat 
over  her  placid  waters,  crystal-clear,  revealing  the  schools  of  trout 
so  sophisticated  as  to  be  unafraid  and  untempted,  a  peace  and  con- 
tentment come  over  me.  I  feel  reconciled  with  life.  The  bfoken 
harmonies  are  mended.   My  soul  is  calmed. 

I  am  passionately  fond  of  Bryce.  She  is  a  cameo  of  nature — 
not  big,  but  big  enough  to  have  dignity.  One  looks  down  on  her, 
but  it  is  literally  and  not  figuratively,  for  she  commands  esteem  as 
well  as  love.  I  have  seen  her  at  sunrise,  at  sunset,  and  in  the  moon- 
light; and  as  the  light  and  shadows  play  on  her  jeweled  spires,  her 
cathedrals,  her  organ,  her  dainty  nymphs  and  graces,  the  ethereal 
world  seems  very  near,  the  imagination  runs  riot  with  the  senses,  and 
the  soul  of  man  is  transported  into  a  realm  of  exquisite  beauty  and 
loveliness. 

IMPRESSION  MADE  ON  FRIENDS 

When  I  first  saw  her  I  could  not  rest  until  I  had  taken  two 
parties  of  relatives  and  friends  in  quick  succession  to  enjoy  with  us 
the  spell  of  her  supernal  beauty.  I  once  included  with  my  guests  two 
dear  friends,  lovers  of  art  and  nature,  whom,  were  I  to  mention  their 
names,  you  would  know.  I  could  scarcely  await  the  opportunity  of 
seeing  them  enjoy  their  first  vision  of  the  canyon.  They  approached 
the  rim  expectantly  but  of  course  not  knowing,  as  no  one  who  has 
not  seen  can  ever  know,  what  awaited  them.  I  thought  there  would 
be  exclamations  of  delight  and  wonder.  There  were  not.  They 
just  looked  and  as  they  looked,  tears  flowed  down  their  cheeks  like 
drops  of  rain.  I'm  not  ashamed  to  say  my  eyes  filled  too.  There 
were  no  words,  only  feeling — feeling  too  deep  for  expression. 

GRAND  CANYON,  CEDAR  BREAKS  AND  ZION  PARK 

The  Grand  Canyon  is  so  stupendous,  so  collossal  and  overwhelm- 
ing as  to  defy  description.  Into  its  awful  caverns  could  all  the  works 
of  man  be  dumped  and  lost.  The  mighty  gorge  is  the  demonstra- 
tion of  nature's  power  in  changing  the  face  of  earth.  How  puny  and 
insignificant  it  makes  the  strength  of  man  appear!  Humility  and 
meekness  are  the  burden  of  the  message  that  rises  from  the  silver 
ribbon  of  the  river  in  its  depths,  up  through  the  mists,  to  the  reverent 
pilgrims  who  gather  at  this  wonder  of  the  world. 

Cedar  Breaks  is  a  masterpiece  in  oil,  a  wonderful  perspective 
extending  far  out  on  the  hearth  of  the  setting  sun.  The  brilliant 
hues  of  her  color  scheme  leave  little  to  be  desired  in  a  work  of  art. 
I  enjoy  the  approach  through  the  wild  meadows  and  the  pines.  She 
is  usually  seen  in  passing  but  she  is  of  more  than  passing  worth. 

After  all  of  these  I  come  to  Zion.  Zion  the  lofty,  the  majestic 
where  you  look  up  instead  of  down.  In  its  major  concept  it  is  not 
a  poem,  although  there  are  a  thousand  poems  in  its  sequestered 
nooks,  its  lovely  trees,  shrubs  and  wild  flowers,  its  lacy  vines  and 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


125 


clinging  mosses,  its  mists,  its  mirror  pool,  its  delicate  and  gorgeous 
colors  and  its  myriad  charms.  Rather  it  is  a  sermon — inspiring), 
exalting,  lifting  man  from  the  baser  things  in  life  to  the  nobler. 

Like  all  worthy  things  it  is  well  guarded.  The  Watchman  and 
the  Sentinel  stand  in  the  gateway  and  the  Three  Patriarchs  solemn- 
ly scrutinize  all  who  enter.  When  within,  however,  the  friendly 
Twin  Brothers  and  gracious  Lady  Mountain  beckon  on  with  hospi- 
tality and  good  cheer.  The  pilgrim  is  at  home  in  the  leafy  valley. 
He  may  pursue  his  quest  without  hindrance  or  disturbance,  except 
perhaps  for  the  commotion  of  his  thoughts  and  his  feelings  as  he  pon- 
ders this  marvel  of  God's  handiwork. 

AN  AWE-INSPIRING  SYMBOL 

I  have  looked  diligently  to  find  some  one  thing — some  symbol 
that  would  epitomize  the  meaning  of  it  all.  I  think  that  I  found  it 
many  years  ago.  It  is  not  El  Gubernador, — the  Great  White  Throne, 
that  rears  its  lofty  crested  peak  high  into  the  blue  of  heaven,  as  many 
might  suppose  it  to  be.  It  is  not  Cable  Mountain,  nor  the  Ledge 
of  the  Weeping  Rock,  nor  even  Angel's  Landing,  significant  as  that 
may  be.  It  is  not  the  Temple  of  Sinawava,  much  as  I  love  to  wor- 
ship in  that  peerless  cathedral  whose  floor  is  the  verdant  valley  with 
river  running  through,  whose  walls  are  chiseled  mile-high  by  the 
Master  Sculptor  and  whose  arch  is  the  blue  of  the  firmament. 

It  is  a  mountain  slightly  more  modest  perhaps  than  some  of 
these.  I  wish  it  might  have  had  the  name  I  wanted  it  to  have — it  is 
called  Red  Arch  Mountain.  There  is  an  arch,  it  is  true,  and  it  is 
red.  But  they  who  named  it  could  not  have  seen  what  made  the 
arch  or  they  would  have  proclaimed  it  Sinai,  the  Mountain  of  the 
Lord,  for  out  of  the  face  of  this  imposing  cliff,  a  tablet  of  stone  of  vast 
proportions  has  been  taken,  perfectly  hewn.  In  my  fancy  I  have  al- 
ways seen  that  massive  tablet  inscribed  by  the  finger  of  God,  broken 
loose  by  the  fierce  lightning  and  resounding  thunder  and  cast  to  the 
mighty  Moses  and  by  that  Prophet  proclaimed  in  sonorous  and 
piercing  voice  down  through  all  the  ages  of  man.  When  I  stand  in 
awe  before  this  portentous  symbol  wrought  without  hands  in  the 
everlasting  hills  I  seem  to  hear  as  in  their  primeval  freshness  the 
great  commandments  of  Jehovah : 

Thou  shalt  have  no  other  Gods  before  me. 

Thou  shalt  not  steal. 

Thou  shalt  not  commit  adultery. 

Thou  shalt  not  kill. 

Thou  shalt  not  covet. 

Thou  shalt  not  bear  false  witness. 

Thou  shalt  not  take  the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain. 
Honor  thy  father  and  thy  mother,  that  it  may  go  well  with  thee  in 
the  land  which  the  Lord  thy  God  giveth  thee. 

IMPROVEMENTS  NOTED 

What  a  strange  paradox  it  seems  that  civilization  should  be 


126  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

unbeautiful.  To  the  lover  of  nature,  every  landscape,  even  the 
desert  and  waste  places,  has  charm  and  attraction  until  man  digs 
a  hole,  builds  a  shack,  erects  a  telegraph  pole  or  a  smokestack.  But 
civilization  need  not  and  should  not  be  ugly.  Man's  construction 
can  beautify  rather  than  deface  nature  if  there  is  the  will,  the  energy 
and  the  art  to  make  it  so. 

Even  commercial  and  industrial  structures  and  appliances  can 
be  made  good  looking.  It  is  noticeable  that  railroad  stations,  once 
grimy  and  unsightly  affairs,  are  now  frequently  embellished  with  bits 
of  lawn,  shrubs,  flowers,  trees  and  sometimes  with  pleasing  archi- 
tecture in  elaborate  settings.  Factories,  power  houses  and  other 
plants,  once  bare  and  forbidding,  are  now  covered  with  vines  set 
in  pleasant  landscapes,  with  adequate  exposure  to  light,  air  and  sun- 
shine. These  transformations  in  the  commercial  world  give  warrant 
to  the  hope  that  some  day  we  shall  have  beauty  in  business  and  that 
it  will  be  a  disgrace  for  any  enterprise  to  be  conducted  in  ugly  sur- 
roundings. 

The  chief  consideration  and  the  problems,  however,  in  this  beau- 
tification  program  probably  lie  with  homes,  churches,  schools  and 
other  public  properties.  In  the  interest  of  competition  business  in- 
stitutions may  be  pretty  well  relied  upon  to  go  forward  with  artistic 
improvements,  but  what  can  be  relied  upon  to  move  the  home  own- 
ers, the  church  goers  and  the  school  patrons  to  do  their  part  in  this 
worthy  endeavor? 

COOPERATION  NECESSARY 

I  believe  that  nothing  but  a  wholesome,  individual  and  commu- 
nity pride  will  accomplish  the  task.  To  stimulate  that  pride  it  is 
necessary  to  understand  and  appreciate  the  real  values  involved. 
I  wish  I  could  say  something  to  enhance  that  understanding  and  ap- 
preciation. 

I  revert  to  the  first  item  which  I  mentioned, — we  live  in  a  re- 
markably beautiful  country.  Our  scenery  is  now  being  exploited. 
It  is  true  that  in  the  main  this  is  done  for  commercial  reasons  but 
nevertheless  all  the  people  are  beneficiaries  of  the  wide  advertising 
and  the  increased  tourist  travel  which  such  exploitation  brings. 
From  a  purely  monetary  standpoint,  it  is  the  poorest  kind  of  busi- 
ness to  spoil  the  landscape  that  we  are  trying  so  hard  to  sell.  Every 
dirty,'  unkept,  unpainted,  and  shabby  home ;  every  unsightly  out- 
building; every  old  corral  and  fallen  fence;  every  scraggly  dead 
tree ;  every  barren  and  forbidding  school  house  and  church  and  court- 
house with  broken  windows,  curled  shingles  and  other  evidences  of 
neglect ;  every  littered  and  weedy  vacant  lot,  street  and  highway  is  a 
definite  liability  against  the  credit  asset  of  this  productive  tourist 
traffic  we  are  striving  so  hard  to  get.  Chambers  of  Commerce,  civic 
clubs  and  other  agencies  engaged  in  its  promotion  need,  more  than 
anything  else,  cooperation  in  the  items  I  have  mentioned.  I  wish  I 
could  pledge  that  support  for  every  home  and  community  in  this 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


127 


state  and  also  for  every  home  and  community  in  which  our  people 
dwell. 

Now  this  is  the  business  side  of  the  question.  I  want  to  present 
another  aspect  of  equal  if  not  superior  importance.  Some  of  you  may 
remember  an  old  play  which  was  popular  on  the  boards  many  years 
ago.  It  was  called  "Ingomar,  the  Barbarian."  There  was  a  scene 
in  this  play  between  the  barbarian  and  Parthenia,  the  fair  maiden 
whom  he  had  come  to  love.  The  girl  is  picking  flowers  and  Ingomar, 
wondering  at  her  interest  in  them,  asks  her,  "What  is  their  use?" 
Rather  startled  at  such  a  question,  the  maiden  answers,  "Why, 
they're  beautiful !  That's  their  use." 

LOVE  OF  BEAUTY  INNATE 

I  think  perhaps  this  gives  a  good  idea  of  the  esthetic  and  pure 
love  of  the  beautiful.  I  believe  that  all  people  are  by  nature  endowed 
with  something  of  this  love  in  their  hearts,  and  it  needs  but  cultiva- 
tion and  encouragement  to  develop  into  one  of  the  loveliest  aspects 
of  living.  Almost  all  are  sensitive  to  color,  to  form  and  symmetry, 
so  that  good  architecture  and  good  landscaping  with  trees,  flowers, 
shrubs  and  lawns  have  a  very  appreciable  effect,  even  though  some- 
times unconsciously,  upon  all  persons. 

The  love  of  home  is  one  of  the  great  virtues  of  the  race  and  un- 
doubtedly the  beauty  of  home  has  done  much  to  stimulate  that  love. 
Fortunately  it  is  not  necessary  to  be  rich  or  learned  to  have  a  love  of 
beauty.  Very  humble  folk  often  have  true  artistic  appreciation.  I 
once  knew  an  old  lady  who  spent  many  hours  scrubbing  a  long  board 
walk  leading  from  her  house  to  some  outbuildings.  I  asked  her  why 
she  did  it.  "Oh,  I  don't  know,"  she  said,  "but  it  seems  to  me  the  out- 
side should  be  as  clean  as  the  inside."  It's  very  fortunate  that  it 
doesn't  take  much  money  to  indulge  esthetic  tastes,  particularly  in 
the  care  of  a  home.  Cleanliness  and  neatness  are  the  chief  require- 
ments and  personal  energy,  ambition  and  pride  can  supply  these.  The 
humblest  cottage  can  be  a  lovely  place,  a  haven  of  refuge  and  a  con- 
stant delight  if  it  is  but  kept  neat  and  tidy  and  clean. 

I  think  of  all  implements  that  make  for  homely  beauty  there  is 
none  that  compares  with  the  broom  and  the  rake.  Well  swept  floors 
and  porches  and  well  raked  yards  never  yet  failed  to  bring  their  thrill 
of  satisfaction  and  pride. 

Next  in  importance  to  a  neat  yard  is  a  green  and  colorful  one. 
Any  house,  great  or  small,  attains  its  real  attraction  and  beauty  in  a 
setting  which  nature,  with  a  little  human  effort,  provides.  What  a 
pity  it  is  not  to  take  advantage  of  this  kindly  provision  of  nature 
when  it  costs  so  little  and  means  so  much.  I'm  grateful  that  out  in 
our  country  relatively  few  families,  and  especially  the  children,  are 
required  to  live  in  apartments  and  tenement  houses  without  sur- 
rounding grounds.  As  I  have  driven  through  the  streets  of  New  York 
and  the  bigger  cities  and  seen  the  little  tots  struggling  to  make  their 
piay  dreams  come  true,  out  on  the  hard,  unyielding  pavement,  with- 


9 


128  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  7  Third  Day 

out  a  spear  of  green  or  a  flower  or  a  tree,  I  have  felt  that  I  would 
like  to  pick  up  every  child  and  bring  it  to  a  cottage  where  it  could 
dig  its  fingers  and  toes  into  mother  earth,  not  encrusted  with  an 
impenetrable  shell. 

AN  APPEAL  FOR  BEAUTIFUL  HOME  SURROUNDINGS 

What  a  marvelous  boon  is  mother  earth !  How  abundantly  she 
yields  of  her  hidden  chemicals  and  nutriments  to  make  the  verdure 
and  the  vegetation  that  gladdens  and  supports  the  race.  My  brothers 
and  sisters, — countrymen  of  these  mountain  valleys,  I  fear  we 
scarcely  appreciate  the  inestimable  privilege  that  we  have  to  live 
on  the  soil.  Oh,  for  just  a  little  labor  and  not  much  money  to  make 
the  soil  that  we  have  taken  from  nature's  domain  and  enclosed  around 
our  houses,  beautiful  and  attractive ! 

I  have  said  this  much  about  esthetic  considerations  in  the  hope 
of  encouraging  our  home  people  to  make  the  most  of  their  opportuni- 
ties. If  every  man  and  woman  who  lives  in  a  home  would  embellish 
it  to  the  best  of  his  ability  I  should  feel  little  concerned  about  public 
buildings  and  property.  There  would  be  such  pride  engendered  by 
these  home-loving  people  that  they  would  not  permit  the  meeting 
house  and  the  school  house  to  suffer  in  comparison  with  their  homes. 

Here  a  little  cooperation  will  bring  the  desired  results.  The 
contribution  of  a  few  hours  of  labor  with  perhaps  a  little  cash  will 
landscape  the  meeting  house  and  transform  it  from  a  bleak  and  bar- 
ren structure  into  a  beautiful  and  inviting  edifice  nestled  among  trees, 
shrubs  and  lawns.  The  same  may  be  said  of  the  school  house  except 
that  the  school  authorities  are  chiefly  responsible  and  their  responsi- 
bility for  an  ill-kept,  forbidding  and  ugly  school  house  is  not  so  much 
to  the  town  or  community  whose  civic  pride  is  hurt,  as  to  the  chil- 
dren, the  boys  and  girls,  who  all  through  their  lives  will  carry  the 
impressions  of  ugliness  which  their  surroundings  inflict  upon  them. 

The  converse  of  what  I  have  said  is  also  true,  namely,  that  beau- 
tifully landscaped  and  attractive  churches,  schools  and  other  public 
buildings  will  do  much  to  stimulate  better  care  of  homes  and  all  pri- 
vate property.  In  fact,  nothing  can  be  done  to  stir  and  encourage 
the  esthetic  sense  in  any  aspect  of  our  surroundings  and  our  living 
without  promoting  generally  a  more  beautiful  world. 

DUTY  OF  MAN  TO  BEAUTIFY  THE  EARTH 

I  will  turn  your  attention  to  another  aspect  of  this  subject  with 
which  I  will  conclude.  I  am  sure  that  beauty  is  intimately  associ- 
ated with  pure  religion.  I  believe  that  our  Father  in  Heaven  is  a 
God  of  order  and  of  beauty.  I  doubt  if  any  rational  being  ever 
entertained  a  concept  of  God,  that  is,  as  a  personal  Being,  except  in 
surroundings  of  beauty  and  exquisite  loveliness.  We  so  envisage 
heaven. 

We  as  a  church  believe  and  so  declare  that  in  the  end  the  earth 
will  be  renewed  and  receive  its  paradisiacal  glory.    When  this  is 


ELDER  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


129 


done  it  will  be  beautiful  and  glorious  beyond  finite  conception.  This 
being  our  doctrine,  do  you  think  it  becoming  in  God's  children  to 
deface  the  earth  while  we  sojourn  here  ?  Being  the  stewards  and  cus- 
todians of  the  resources  which  are  committed  to  us,  have  we  not  an 
obligation  to  use  them,  preserve  them  and  return  them  in  the  best 
possible  condition  of  which  our  circumstances  will  permit?  I  think 
upon  reflection  you  will  say  that  we  have  such  an  obligation  and 
that  it  is  very  definitely  our'task  to  make  God's  footstool  as  beauti- 
ful as  we  may.  For  "the  earth  is  the  Lord's  and  the  fullness  thereof," 
and  the  righteous  "and  their  generations  shall  inherit  the  earth  from 
generation  to  generation  forever  and  forever." 

What  a  delightful  abode  for  men  this  good  earth  could  be  if  men 
would  but  make  it  so !  If  neighbors  all  had  flower  gardens  and  gos- 
sip centered  around  daffodils,  lilacs  and  petunias,  there  would  be  far 
more  kindliness  and  sympathy  in  the  world.  Even  the  thorns  of 
roses  do  not  irritate  men's  souls. 

You  will  find  that  the  unfortunate  young  men  who  today  fill  our 
prisons  and  other  houses  of  detention  do  not  come  from  pretty  cot- 
tages with  vines  growing  over  the  door,  carefully  trained  by  patient, 
tender  mothers  and  you  will  find  that  the  proud  and  haughty  and 
arrogant  of  the  world  are  not  the  true  product  of  the  soil.  It  is  no 
misstatement  that  "the  meek  shall  inherit  the  earth,"  for  it  is  only 
they  who  truly  acknowledge  and  worship  the  Master  Giver. 

Need  I  say  more  to  persuade  us  that  every  consideration,— bus- 
iness, esthetic  and  religious, — constrains  our  people  to  take  the  lead 
in  this  worthy  cause  of  beautifying  the  land  ?  I  understand  that  ex- 
pert advice  will  be  made  available  in  the  laying  out  of  grounds,  in 
planting  and  in  other  features  calculated  to  reach  the  objectives 
of  the  program.  With  this  aid  our  efforts  will  be  successful  if  only 
our  interest  and  our  energy  are  sufficient. 

A  GREAT  LEADER  MENTIONED 

What  if  our  great  and  wise  pioneer  leader,  Brigham  Young, 
should  return  on  the  hundredth  anniversary  of  his  entrance  into  this 
the  Salt  Lake  Valley?  How  it  would  please  him  and  thrill  his  noble 
soul  to  find  the  cities,  the  towns  and  villages  which  he  planned  so 
well  and  strove  so  diligently  and  courageously  to  found,  all  in  the 
bloom  of  midsummer,  with  farms  and  fields  laden  with  maturing 
crops,  with  pastures  and  hills  dotted  with  flocks  and  herds,  with  fac- 
tories, business  blocks,  public  buildings,  schools  and  churches  re- 
flecting a  vast  development  in  enterprise,  culture  and  religion  which 
he  so  earnestly  advocated;  and  then  too,  most  thrilling  of  all,  if  he 
could  find  thousands  of  contented  homes,  nestled  in  the  shade  of 
myriads  of  trees,  growing  out  of  lawns,  shrubs  and  fragrant  flowers, 
all  neat  and  clean,  the  habitation  of  an  honest,  thrifty,  God-loving, 
joyous  people,  and  all  this  in  the  desert  valleys  which  he  first  saw, 
now  transformed  and  beautified  by  the  enterprise  and  the  idealism 


130  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  7  Third  Day 

of  the  generations  that  followed  him !  Surely  the  cup  of  his  gratitude 
would  be  running  over. 

Why  may  it  not  be  so  ?  What  more  worthy  and  fitting  tribute 
could  we  offer  to  those  patient,  devoted  men  and  women  whose  cour- 
age, whose  intelligence  and  whose  labor  have  bequeathed  to  us  the 
priceless  heritage  we  now  enjoy? 

God  grant  that  our  love,  our  gratitude  and  our  veneration  may 
find  tangible  expression  in  beauty — beauty  of  life  and  surroundings, 
I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

MESSAGE  FROM  PRESIDENT  HEBER  J.  GRANT 

President  Clark:  We  are  pleased  and  I  am  sure  we  shall  be  en- 
heartened  by  a  message  which  has  just  come  from  President  Heber 
J.  Grant,  which  I  shall  read : 

Los  Angeles,  April  7,  1940 

Presidents  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  and  David  O.  McKay, 
Care  Mormon  Conference,  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 

I  cannot  adequately  express  the  joy  that  came  from  listening  in  on 
this  morning's  session  of  Conference.  It  came  through  wonderfully  clear 
and  was  a  spiritual  feast  in  which  many  friends  here  joined.  I  was  es- 
pecially pleased  that  President  McKay  was  able  to  speak  with  such  ease. 
I  am  looking  forward  with  great  anticipation  to  this  afternoon's  session 
in  which  I  shall  join  with  you  in  spirit.  I  am  feeling  fine  today  and 
improving  some  every  day.  Please  convey  again  to  the  Saints  my  love 
and  blessings. 

HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


BISHOP  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

More  than  anything  else  this  day,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
feel  grateful  to  the  Lord  for  membership  in  this  great  Church.  It 
has  been  a  wonderful  privilege  to  associate  with  President  Grant, 
President  Clark,  and  President  McKay  in  the  weekly  meetings  that 
we  have  been  privileged  to  hold  with  them  as  members  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric.  To  me  they  are  indeed  prophets  of  God.  I  love 
and  respect  the  members  of  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  likewise, 
and  the  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy.  I  am  grateful  to  the  Lord 
for  my  Counselors  because  they  are  truly  men  of  God.  I  am  grateful 
for  all  you  who  are  here  representing  the  great  body  of  the  Church, 
these  General  Boards,  the  Mission  Presidents,  Stake  Presidents, 
and  their  associates,  the  Bishops,  these  Patriarchs,  and  all  who  are 
putting  forth  their  energies  for  the  upbuilding  of  the  Kingdom  of 
God  in  the  earth. 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 


131 


THE  PRESENT  NEED  FOR  TEACHING  THE  WORD  OF  WISDOM 

I  was  very  much  impressed  with  the  charge  given  to  the  Priest- 
hood by  President  Clark  in  the  opening  session  of  this  Conference, 
and  I  thought  of  the  words  of  Dr.  Widtsoe  when  speaking  of  the 
Word  of  Wisdom.  He  said  there  are  some  in  the  Church  who  feel 
that  we  have  said  enough  about  it.  I  have  been  in  private  conversa- 
tion, and  Sunday  School  classes  where  the  thought  has  been  ex- 
pressed that  they  wished  President  Grant  would  cease  harping  on 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  In  my  heart  I  have  felt  to  say,  "Thank  God  for 
the  leader  that  he  is  who  has  the  courage  to  speak  out  and  present 
to  the  people  the  things  which  God  has  revealed !"  I  am  sure  if  we 
appreciated  the  Word  of  Wisdom  and  its  meaning  to  the  Church  as 
much  as  Satan  appreciates  what  it  means  when  we  can  be  persuaded 
to  disregard  the  same,  we  would  appreciate  it  more  than  we  do  to- 
day. I  am  grateful  to  my  parents  who  taught  me  to  observe  and 
keep  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

I  am  sure  that  as  far  as  our  young  people  are  concerned,  the 
members  of  our  Church,  a  disregard  for  the  Word  of  Wisdom  is  the 
first  step  that  Satan  would  have  them  take  in  his  great  effort  to 
destroy  their  souls.  At  the  time  there  was  war  in  heaven  and  Satan 
and  his  hosts  were  cast  out,  a  cry  went  up  in  heaven  saying,  "Woe 
to  the  inhabiters  of  the  earth  and  of  the  sea!  for  the  Devil  is  come 
down  unto  you,  having  great  wrath,  because  he  knoweth  that  he  hath 
but  a  short  time." 

In  our  Temples  we  are  told  of  the  use  Satan  would  make  of  the 
riches  of  the  world  to  try  to  destroy  the  souls  of  men.  Last  night  in 
our  Priesthood  assembly  Brother  Merrill  told  us  that  some  thirty 
million  dollars  are  expended  each  year  in  the  United  States  alone 
in  advertising  tobacco  and  liquor  in  an  effort  to  induce  our  young 
people  to  break  the  Word  of  Wisdom. 

MANIFESTATION  TO  A  PATRIARCH 

One  of  the  most  interesting  things  that  has  occurred  to  me  dur- 
ing this  Conference  was  a  visit  at  the  Presiding  Bishop's  Office  of 
one  of  my  former  associates  in  the  Church  who  was  recently  ap- 
pointed a  Patriarch  and  set  apart  and  ordained  by  Dr.  Widtsoe.  He 
told  me  of  how  he  felt  his  inability  to  meet  that  wonderful  calling 
until  he  was  blessed  by  Brother  Widtsoe,  and  then  he  told  of  the  joy 
he  had  had  in  giving  blessings  to  the  young  people  in  the  Church 
and  of,the  manifestations  that  had  come  to  him.  Among  other  things 
he  said  that  while  he  was  blessing  one  young  man  he  saw  an  evil 
spirit  standing  by  his  side,  and  the  impression  came  to  him  that 
the  evil  spirit  was  listening  to  what  was  being  said  so  that  he  would 
know  what  his  mission  in  life  was,  that  he  might  try  to  destroy  that 
mission.  It  reminded  me  of  a  picture  I  saw  in  Brussels  many  years 
ago,  when  I  was  on  my  first  mission,  of  a  man  who  shot  his  head  off, 
and  by  his  side  stood  two  angels,  one  of  light  and  one  of  darkness, 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7    '  Third  Day 

and  as  he  committed  the  deed  the  angel  of  darkness  laughed  with  a 
laugh  of  triumph  and  the  angel  of  light  turned  his  head  and  wept. 

EFFECTS  OF  BREAKING  WORD  OF  WISDOM  FAR-REACHING 

I  am  sure,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  the  Evil  One  is  doing  all 
he  can  to  try  to  destroy  the  lives  of  our  boys  and  girls.  He  did  it 
with  the  Prophet  Joseph.  You  will  remember  the  Prophet's  own 
testimony  of  how  he  was  first  overcome  by  the  power  of  darkness, 
when  he  went  into  the  woods  to  pray.  He  is  seeking  to  destroy  us 
because  we  have  been  given  the  Light,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  that 
when  we  disregard  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  we  not  only  suffer  a  bio- 
logical ill  effect  upon  our  bodies  by  using  things  that  are  not  good 
for  the  body,  but  it  changes  our  mental  attitude  toward  the  things 
of  God.  If  you  brethren  and  sisters  question  this,  I  would  ask  you 
to  inquire  in  your  own  homes  or  the  homes  of  your  associates.  I 
think  you  will  find  that  when  boys  and  girls  commence  using  tobacco 
or  liquor  they  cease  to  pray,  and  in  most  cases  they  cease  to  attend 
Sunday  School,  the  Mutual  Improvement  organization,  and  other 
Auxiliaries  of  this  Church.  I  think  an  examination  of  the  rolls  would 
indicate  that  this  is  true  in  almost  every  case.  And  that  is  not  all. 
The  Lord  has  indicated  to  us  that  these  bodies  are  tabernacles  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  and  that  the  Holy  Ghost  will  not  dwell  in  an  unholy 
tabernacle.  Paul  tells  us  that  these  bodies  are  not  our  own  but  God 
has  purchased  them  with  a  price  and  he  that  defileth  the  body,  him 
shall  God  destroy.  So,  when  we  commence  to  do  the  things  we 
should  not  do,  and  thus  we  quit  praying,  the  Lord  withdraws  His 
Spirit  and  we  are  turned  over  to  the  buffetings  of  Satan.  It  is  first 
a  cigaret ;  then  it  is  a  glass  of  beer ;  then  it  is  a  drinking  party ;  and 
that  leads  to  immorality ;  and  some  of  us  know  from  our  experience 
in  the  Church  something  of  what  this  means.  I  wish  that  in  all  the 
cities  of  this  great  country  all  the  Latter-day  Saints  were  keeping 
the  Word  of  Wisdom.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  the  light  and  influ- 
ence that  would  go  forth  therefrom  would  touch  the  hearts  and  the 
lives  of  men  and  women  who  reside  in  our  midst  who  are  not  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  and  they  would  be  led  to  do  likewise.  As  the 
Master  said,  "Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men,  that  they  may  see 
your  good  works,  and  glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

From  a  statement  made  by  Dr.  George  Thomason,  M.  D.,  F.  A. 
C.  S.,  regarding  the  effects  of  tobacco,  I  read : 

Our  hearts  are  saddened  and  our  eyes  filled  with  tears  at  the  sight 
of  the  mangled  and  crippled  human  wrecks  left  as  an  aftermath  of 
war;  but  these  do  not  compare  in  horror  with  the  innumerable  multi- 
tudes of  hereditary  defectives  left  in  the  wake  of  the  vast  army  of 
cigarets.  Is  it  fair  to  make  the  man  or  woman  of  tomorrow — our  pos- 
terity— pay  the  fiddler  for  our  pleasures  today? 

In  the  Ten  Commandments,  4he  Lord  has  said  that  He  will 
visit  the  iniquities  of  the  fathers  upon  the  children  unto  the  third 
and  fourth  generation  of  them  that  hate  Him,  but  show  mercy  unto 


BISHOP  LE  GRAND  RICHARDS 


133 


thousands  of  them  who  love  Him  and  keep  His  commandments. 
Keeping  the  Word  of  Wisdom  will  free  us  and  our  posterity  from 
these  calamities. 

LIQUOR  AND  ITS  TRAIN  OF  EVILS 

Regarding  the  use  of  liquor,  I  should  like  to  quote  from  the 
words  of  Evangeline  Booth  of  the  Salvation  Army  : 

Drink  has  drained  more  blood,  hung  more  crepe,  sold  more 
homes,  plunged  more  people  into  bankruptcy,  armed  more  villains, 
slain  more  children,  snapped  more  wedding  rings,  defiled  more  inno- 
cence, blinded  more  eyes,  twisted  more  limbs,  dethroned  more  reason, 
wrecked  more  manhood,  dishonored  more  womanhood,  broken  more 
hearts,  blasted  more  lives,  driven  more  to  suicide,  and  dug  more  graves 
than  any  other  poisoned  scourge  that  ever  swept  its  death-dealing 
waves  across  the  world. 

If  we  never  used  tobacco  and  liquor,  we  would  never  have  any 
of  these  things  to  contend  with.  It  seems  to  me  that  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  might  be  regarded  as  an  insurance  policy ;  if  we  keep  the 
Word  of  Wisdom,  Satan  does  not  get  to  first  base  with  us  because 
we  are  not  made  subject  to  his  temptations. 

OUTSTANDING  EXAMPLE  OF  AN  ACTRESS 

I  should  like  to  take  the  liberty  of  reading  a  quotation  that 
appeared  in  the  "Hollywood  Citizen,"  under  date  of  February  15, 
1940,  showing  what  the  life  of  a  Mormon  boy  or  girl  can  do  and  of 
the  notoriety  it  brings  when  they  stand  up  for  the  things  they  have 
been  taught  in  their  Church  : 

Wonders  never  cease  and  today  we  met  in  the  center  of  Holly- 
wood a  movie  actress,  and  a  beautiful  one,  too,  who  never  has  tasted 
a  cocktail  nor  smoked  a  cigaret. 

Her  name  is  Laraine  Day,  and  lips  that  touch  liquor  shall  never 
touch  hers,  and  if  there  is  any  other  movie  star  with  a  record  like  that, 
we'll  put  it  in  our  pipe  and  smoke  it. 

We're  not  trying  to  spoof  Miss  Day,  either.  She  is  a  member  of 
the  Church  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  she's  engaged  to  a  missionary, 
and  we  have  the  greatest  of  respect  for  her.  Only  we're  a  little  sur- 
prised that  a  girl  of  her  temperament  and  background  is  in  the  movies. 

"But  it  isn't  at  all  surprising,"  she  insisted,  "Mormons  don't  drink 
or  smoke,  but  they  have  no  objections  to  the  theater,  or  to  motion 
pictures.  In  fact,  I  got  my  first  stage  experience  in  Church  plays, 
and  here  in  Hollywood  I'm  in  charge  of  a  Little  Theater  group  spon- 
sored by  the  Church." 

Miss  Day,  who  is  hazel-eyed,  barely  20,  and  one  of  the  brightest 
of  M-G-M's  younger  stars,  likes  night  clubs,  where  she  drinks  either 
soda  pop  or  milk. 

"Keeping  away  from  liquor  is  no  problem  for  me,"  she  said, 
"except  in  the  movies.  A  few  weeks  ago  I  was  in  a  picture  where 
we  were  supposed  to  be  at  dinner,  eating  trifle.  This  is  a  British 
dessert,  which  consists  of  macaroons  and  whipped  cream.  So  the 
studio  sent  to  a  caterer's  and  got  a  whole  barrel  of  trifle.  It  was 
flavored  with  rum.  I  just  tasted  the  whipped  cream  on  top  and  didn't 
eat  a  bit  of  it! 


134  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

We  suggested  that  a  tablespoon  of  rum  in  a  pudding  was  no  more 
intoxicating  than  a  spoon  of  vanilla  extract,  but  Miss  Day  said  she 
wasn't  interested  in  that.    It  was  the  principle  of  the  thing. 

Currently  she  is  playing  the  leading  feminine  role  in  "And  One 
Was  Beautiful,"  opposite  Robert  Cummings,  and  if  ever  there  was  a 
living  example  of  the  fact  that  a  girl  needn't  be  wild  to  succeed  in 
Hollywood,  she  is  it. 

Then  the  article  goes  on  to  tell  more  about  her,  how  she  earns 
a  good  salary;  how5  she  pays  her  tithing  to  the  Church;  how  she 
converted  her  young  boy  friend,  and  he  is  now  filling  a  mission  for 
the  Church. 

If,  like  Miss  Day,  we  would  never  touch  tobacco  or  liquor,  be- 
cause of  the  "principle  of  the  thing,"  we  would  never  have  to  quit, 
and  we  would  bring  great  honor  to  the  Church.  And,  as  I  say,  the 
principle  is  like  an  insurance  policy,  a  protection  against  the  snares 
of  the  Evil  One  and  the  consequences  that  follow  the  disregard 
thereof. 

IMMORALITY  A  MODERN  CURSE 

In  addition  to  the  injury  to  the  body  because  of  the  use  of  to- 
bacco and  liquor  as  I  have  stated,  is  the  injury  that  comes  from 
immorality.  Those  of  us  who  have  read  and  know  something  of 
the  conditions  in  the  world  today  know  that  this  is  a  plague  that  is 
reaching  into  our  very  communities,  that  we  should  not  be  unmind- 
ful of,  but  we  ought  to  surround  our  girls  and  our  boys  with  all 
the  influence  and  power  possible  to  enable  them  to  shun  this  evil. 

I  was  delighted  with  the  plainness  with  which  President  Clark 
spoke  on  this  subject.  In  one  of  our  meetings  with  the  First  Presi- 
dency, President  Grant  told  of  a  letter  he  had  received  from  a  young 
woman  who  had  been  untrue  morally  and  how  she  wrote  and  said  to 
the  President,  "Why  don't  you  publish  a  warning  in  the  'Era'  and 
the  newspapers  and  tell  it  in  the  organizations  so  that  young  people 
will  know  what  it  is  when  they  have  lost  their  virtue  ?" 

I  hope  that  the  fathers  and  mothers  in  Israel  are  training  their 
boys  and  girls  today  as  my  father  and  mother  trained  me  when  they 
told  me  that  immorality  was  the  greatest  sin  a  man  could  commit 
next  to  the  shedding  of  innocent  blood,  and  that  they  would  rather 
lay  me  away  in  the  grave  innocent  and  clean  than  to  know  I  had  lost 
my  virtue  or  had  robbed  a  woman  of  hers.  I  think,  my  brothers  and 
sisters,  that  we  need  to  do  a  little  more  of  that  kind  of  preaching  to- 
day. It  seems  to  me  that  one  of  the  evidences  that  there  is  a  God  is 
the  great  scourge  and  curse  that  He  places  upon  men  and  women 
who  are  immoral  in  their  lives.  A  few  years  ago  we  read  in  a  Salt 
Lake  newspaper  that  a  young  man  had  committed  suicide,  and  the 
paper  said,  "because  he  was  despondent,"  but  his  father  told  me  that 
the  reason  he  committed  suicide  was  because  his  body  was  wasting 
away  as  the  result  of  immoral  living.  I  might  not  have  understood 
what  he  meant  had  it  not  been  for  an  experience  I  had  in  Chicago 
when  I  was  on  my  way  to  my  first  mission  as  a  boy.  We  saw  there 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


135 


photographs  of  men's  and  women's  bodies  literally  being  eaten  away 
by  the  effects  of  venereal  disease.  It  made  such  an  impression  upon 
my  mind  at  that  time  that  I  could  not  help  but  think  it  almost  as  bad 
as  leprosy.  I  read  a  report  in  one  of  the  Railroad  stations  in  one  of 
our  large  cities  rfot  long  ago  that  indicated  that  780,000  young 
men  reach  their  majority  in  the  United  States  each  year,  and 
of  that  number  450,000,  according  to  statistics  of  the  Bureau  of  Vital 
Statistics  of  the  United  States  of  America,  suffer  from  venereal  dis- 
ease. And  that,  in  this  great  land  we  call  a  Christian  nation.  When 
we  know  such  conditions  exist,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  we  realize 
more  the  need  of  teaching  our  young  people.  I  feel  to  thank  God  for 
these  teachings.  In  my  position  as  a  presiding  officer  in  this  Church, 
I  have  had  men  come  to  me  in  transgression.  I  have  seen  them  shed 
bitter  tears,  and  I  thank  God  for  the  principle  of  forgiveness  of  sin. 
I  have  wished  it  were  even  possible,  not  only  to  forgive  the  sin  but 
to  blot  out  the  memory  of  the  sin,  and  then  I  think  as  they  grow  in 
experience,  even  if  they  repent  and  they  become  useful  in  the  Church, 
of  the  scars  that  are  still  there,  when  they  know  there  are  women 
who  know  they  have  been  unclean. 

The  Lord  said  to  Ezekiel  of  old  that  He  had  placed  him  as  a 
watchman  on  the  towers  of  Israel  and  when  He  gave  a  commandment 
unto  him  and  he  failed  to  carry  it  to  the  people,  then  their  blood 
would  be  required  at  his  hands,  but  if  he  delivered  the  message,  he 
would  be  free.  I  think  it  is  up  to  the  Elders  in  Israel  and  the  officers 
of  this  Church,  as  President  Clark  has  said,  to  let  the  people  know 
so  that  we  might  keep  ourselves  free  from  responsibility  for  their 
sins,  and  help  them  to  remain  unspotted  from  the  sins  of  the  world. 
"Blessed  are  the  pure  in  heart,"  Jesus  said,  "for  they  shall  see  God." 
God  help  us  to  be  that,  and  our  children  likewise,  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

The  Ladies'  Voices  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  "O  Divine 
Redeemer"  (Gounod-Cain). 

ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Tzvelve  Apostles 

The  purpose  of  my  remarks  this  afternoon  is  to  appeal  to  the  people 
to  come  to  the  support  of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan. 

DIRECTION  OF  WELFARE  PLAN  BY  LEADERS 

Our  leader,  the  President  of  the  Church,  has  directed  its'  organiza- 
tion and  operation.  And  he  has  appealed  to  the  people  to  come  to  the 
support  of  this  undertaking  in  much  the  same  way  as  did  Paul  the 
Apostle  when,  in  speaking  to  the  Elders  of  the  Church,  he  said,  "Ye 
ought  to  support  the  weak,  and  to  remember  the  words  of  the  Lord 
Jesus,  how  He  said,  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive."  (Acts 
20:35.)  And  President  Grant  has  made  his  appeal  with  much  the  same 


136  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

earnestness  and  feeling  as  did  Paul  when  he  added,  "Therefore  watch, 
and  remember,  that  by  the  space  of  three  years  I  ceased  not  to  warn 
every  one  night  and  day  with  tears."  (Acts  20:31.) 

And  while  the  aims  of  this  Church  Welfare  Plan  are  many,  on 
this  occasion  I  am  going  to  mention  but  two.  The  first  of  these  is  pro- 
viding employment  and  teaching  the  untrained  and  inefficient  how  to 
work,  and  the  second  is  eliminating  the  suffering  and  the  handicaps  that 
are  due  to  poverty. 

THE  IM'PORTANCE  OF  EFFICIENCY 

After  projects  have  been  created  and  employment  has  been  secured, 
hardly  anything  is  more  important  than  teaching  people  how  to  work 
and  then  teaching  them  the  importance  of  performing  assigned  tasks 
with  reasonable  speed  and  efficiency.  There  are  mothers  who  say  that 
because  they  themselves  had  a  hard  time  they  are  going  to  see  to  it  that 
their  daughters  have  an  easy  time.  And  there  are  fathers  who  say  be- 
cause they  themselves  had  a  hard  time  in  the  days  of  their  youth,  they 
are  going  to  do  their  utmost  to  see  to  it  that  their  sons  have  an  easy  time. 

Strong  men  and  strong  women,  those  who  work  efficiently,  those 
whose  services  are  always  in  demand,  are  not  brought  up  having  an  easy 
time.  Work  is  the  only  thing  in  the  world  worth  while  that  wins.  The 
world  seems  to  be  seeking  always  the  services  of  those  who  work  with 
a  high  degree  of  speed  and  a  high  degree  of  efficiency.  Such  individuals 
are  rarely  unemployed.  It  has  been  wisely  said  that  he  who  can  write 
a  better  book  or  preach  a  better  sermon,  or  even  make  a  better  mouse 
trap  than  his  neighbor,  though  he  build  his  house  in  the  woods,  the  world 
will  make  a  beaten  pathway  to  his  door. 

And  since  it  is  the  ability  and  the  willingness  of  people  to  work, 
and  the  speed  and  the  efficiency  with  which  they  toil,  which  creates  a 
demand  for  their  services,  one  of  the  outstanding  purposes  of  the  Church 
Welfare  Plan  after  providing  employment  is  to  teach  people  to  work. 
At  the  same  time  it  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  there  are  two  periods 
in  life  which  ought  to  be  free  from  the  necessity  of  earning  a  living.  One 
of  these  is  childhood.  No  child  ought  to  be  compelled  to  work  for  his 
daily  bread.  And  the  other  period  is  old  age.  No  one  who  is  old,  espec- 
ially when  in  poor  health,  ought  to  be  compelled  to  work  for  his  living. 

THRIFT  URGED 

And  if  these  two  periods  in  life  are  to  be  free  from  the  necessity 
of  earning  a  living,  it  will  be  necessary  for  those  who  labor  to  lay  some- 
thing by  during  the  laboring  years  of  their  lives  in  order  to  provide  for 
the  necessities  of  childhood  and  the  necessities  of  age.  This  can  be  done 
only  when  and  if  frugal  ways,  frugal  habits  and  industry  are  the  charac- 
teristics of  those  who  toil.  These  desirable  conditions  can  be  brought 
about  only  if  workers  during  the  earning  period  of  their  lives  spend  less 
than  they  make. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R.  LYMAN 


137 


PROJECTS  TO  BE  PLANNED 

It  is  the  aim  of  the  Church  so  to  train  the  people  that  they  will  have 
the  character  and  the  honor,  the  desire  and  the  willingness,  to  give  a  full 
day  of  honest,  efficient  service  for  a  full  day's  pay.  The  able-bodied  are 
expected  to  work  for  their  daily  bread.  Projects  of  many  different  kinds 
and  descriptions  are  to  be  organized  in  every  Stake  and  Ward  and  Mission 
and  Branch  of  the  Church  with  the  hope  and  with  the  expectation  that 
those  who  are  able  to  work  will  be  given  an  opportunity,  on  these  projects, 
to  provide  themselves,  by  honest  effort,  with  the  necessities  of  life. 

HUMAN  BEINGS  NOT  ALL  ALIKE 

And  in  all  this  the  natural  weaknesses  and  imperfections  of  mankind 
must  be  taken  into  account.  There  are. those  in  the  human  family  whose 
mental  make-up  is  such  that  for  them  to  learn  to  lace  up  their  own  shoes 
is  a  real  accomplishment.  In  fact  the  mentalities,  capacities  and  abilities 
of  human  beings  are  so  varied  that  one  wise  man  has  said :  The  human 
family  may  be  divided  into  three  groups  with  a  rather  high  degree  of  ac- 
curacy. Fifteen  per  cent  of  the  "human  family  will  work  whether  they 
are  watched  or  not.  Thirty-five  per  cent  of  the  human  family  will  work 
if  well  watched,  and  fifty  per  cent  of  the  human  family  will  not  work 
watched  or  otherwise."  I  leave  it  to  you  to  decide  for  yourselves  whether 
or  not  this  conclusion  is  correct. 

A  GOOD  REPORT  FROM  ONE  STAKE 

The  second  aim  of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan,  as  I  have  already 
stated,  is  the  elimination  of  the  suffering  and  the  handicaps  which  are 
due  to  poverty.  In  a  Stake  Welfare  meeting  held  recently  the  Ward 
Presidents  of  the  Relief  Societies  of  the  Stake  were  called  upon  for 
reports.  And  all  stated  that  in  their  respective  Wards  every  family  had 
been  visited  and  every  home  had  been  carefully  investigated.  The  visi- 
tors found  that  all  the  families  were  comfortably  housed,  no  child  was, 
nor  were  any  of  the  unemployable  aged,  required  to  work  for  a  living. 
There  was  no  child  bare-footed.  There  was  no  child  that  was  hungry. 
All  the  children  were  well  clothed.  All  of  the  aged  and  all  of  the  children 
were  reported  as  being  well  cared  for  and  it  was  stated  further  that  the 
children  all  had  ample  opportunity  to  attend  school.  Thus,  in  that  par- 
ticular Stake,  the  aim  had  been  reached  of  eliminating  the  suffering  and 
the  handicaps  which  are  due  to  poverty. 

A  STORY  REVIEWED 

The  main  purpose  of  these  remarks  is  to  appeal  to  you  to  come  to 
the  support  of  this  Church  Welfare  Plan.  I  repeat  the  words  of  the 
Master  Himself,  "It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to  receive,"  and  the 
words  of  Paul,  "Ye  ought  to  support  the  weak."  I  can  think  of  no  better 
illustration  of  what  I  mean  than  the  impressive  lesson  taught  in  Van 
Dyke's  grippingly  interesting  religious  story  entitled,  "The  Mansion."  I 


138  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  7  Third  Day 

shall  give  this  story  briefly  in  almost  the  exact  language  of  my  close  and 
beloved  friend,  that  master  of  English  literature,  the  late  Dr.  Henry 
Van  Dyke. 

John  Wightman,  a  wealthy  business  man  and  banker,  dreamed  that 
he  was  sitting  on  a  stone,  not  far  from  a  broad  pathway,  in  a  strange  land. 
The  travelers  in  little  groups  or  larger  ones  were  all  clothed  in  white. 
It  was  like  some  old  picture.  Now  and  then  one  of  the  travelers  would 
smile,  and  beckon  John  Wightman  a  friendly  greeting,  so  that  he  felt  as 
if  they  would  like  to  have  him  join  them. 

This  was  a  vastly  different  world  from  that  in  which  the  palatial 
mansion  of  John  Wightman  on  a  great  avenue  of  a  great  city,  a  modern 
metropolis,  had  been  built.   All  of  this  looked  strange  to  him  and  yet  most' 
real — as  real  as  anything  he  had  ever  seen. 

He  had  a  faint  premonition  of  what  all  this  must  be,  but,  wishing  to 
be  sure,  he  walked  toward  one  of  the  passing  groups  of  people.  One  of 
them  turned  to  meet  him  and  put  out  his  hand.  It  was  an  old  man  under 
whose  white  beard  and  brows  John  Wightman  saw  the  face  of  the  village 
doctor  who  had  cared  for  him  when  he  was  but  a  poor  boy  in  the  country. 

"Welcome,"  said  the  old  man,  "Will  you  come  with  us  ?" 

"Where  are  you  going?" 

"To  see  the  heavenly  city,  to  see  our  mansions  there !  Come  join  us. 
It  will  do  you  good.  You  also  must  have  a  mansion  in  this  heavenly  city 
waiting  for  you — a  fine  one  too.  Are  you  not  looking  forward  to  seeing 
it?" 

"Yes,"  replied  John  Wightman,  "Yes,  it  must  be  so.  But  I  had  not 
expected  to  see  it  so  soon.   I  will  go  with  you  and  we  will  talk  on  the  way." 

The  doctor  had  little  to  tell  of  his  plain,  hard  life  in  the  country.  It 
had  been  uneventfully  spent  for  others.  His  story  and  that  of  the  country 
village  where  he  lived  was  a  very  simple  one.  A  much  richer  story  was 
that  of  John  Wightman's  adventures,  and  triumphs,  full  of  contacts  with 
the  great  events  and  the  great  personages  of  his  time.  But  in  that  wide, 
heavenly  moorland,  in  that  free  air  of  perfect  peace,  John  Wightman  did 
not  care  to  speak  much  about  his  experiences. 

All  the  people  in  these  groups  seemed  to  be  people  who,  during  their 
lifetime  upon  the  earth,  had  been  folks  of  comparatively  little  considera- 
tion. But  John  Wightman  was  glad  that  they  would  all  find  fit  dwelling 
places  prepared  for  them ;  but  he  thought  also,  with  a  certain  pride  and 
pleasure,  of  the  great  surprise  that  some  of  them  would  feel  when  they 
saw  his  appointed  mansion.  If  they  were  so  sure,  each  one,  of  finding  a 
mansion  there,  could  not  he  be  far  more  sure?  For  his  life  had  surely 
been  more  fruitful  than  theirs.  He  had  been  a  leader,  a  founder,  owner 
and  manager  of  many  new  and  important  enterprises. 

Now.  before  these  travelers,  stood  the  heavenly  city.  It  was  white 
and  wonderful.  Its  walls  were  so  low  a  child  could  see  over  them.  The 
gate  of  this  city  was  not  like  a  gate  at  all.  It  was  not  barred  with  iron  or 
wood ;  it  was  only  a  single  pearl  which  marked  the  place  where  the  wall 
ended  and  the  entrance  lay  open. 


ELDER  RICHARD  R,  LYMAN 


139 


A  person  standing  there  said,  "Come  in,  you  are  at  your  journey's 
end  and  your  mansions  are  ready  for  you." 

They  passed  from  street  to  street  among  fair  and  spacious  dwellings 
adorned  with  an  infinitely  varied  beauty  of  divine  simplicity.  The  man- 
sions differed  in  size,  in  shape,  in  charm;  each  seemed  to  have  its  own 
personal  look  of  loveliness.  As  the  company  came  one  by  one  to  the  man- 
sions prepared  for  them,  and  their  guide  beckoned  to  the  happy  ones  to 
enter  into  and  take  possession,  there  was,  on  the  part  of  all  of  them,  a 
soft  murmur  of  joy.  These  new  and  immortal  dwellings  were  lovelier 
and  nobler  than  all  the  earthly  dreams  they  had  had  of  them.  One  after 
another  the  travelers  were  led  to  their  own  mansions  and  went  in  gladly ; 
and  from  within,  through  the  open  doors,  came  sweet  voices  of  welcome 
and  low  laughter  and  happy  song. 

At  last  there  was  no  one  left  with  the  guide  but  the  two  old  friends, 
the  village  doctor  and  John  Wightman.  They  were  standing  in  front  of 
one  of  the  largest  and  fairest  of  the  heavenly  mansions  whose  garden 
glowed  softly  with  radiant  flowers.  The  guide,  laying  his  hand  upon 
the  doctor's  shoulder  said,  "This  is  for  you.  Go  in.  There  is  no  more  sick- 
ness here,  no  more  death,  no  sorrow,  no  pain !  The  old  enemies  are  all 
conquered,  and  all  the  good  that  you  have  done  for  others,  all  the  help 
that  you  have  given,  all  the  comfort  that  you  have  brought,  all  the  strength 
and  love  that  you  have  bestowed  upon  the  suffering,  are  here,  and  we  have 
built  all  of  them  into  this  mansion  for  you." 

The  good  man's  face  lighted  with  a  still  joy.  He  clasped  his  old 
friend's  hand  and  whispered,  "How  wonderful  all  of  this  is !  Go  on,  you 
will  come  to  your  own  mansion  next  no  doubt.  It  will  not  be  far  away. 
We  shall  see  each  other  again  soon,  very  soon." 

And  so  the  village  doctor  went  through  the  garden  and  into  the  music 
within.  The  keeper  of  the  gate  then  turned  to  John  Wightman  with  level, 
quiet,  searching  eyes  and  asked  gravely,  "Where  do  you  wish  me  to  lead 
you  now  ?" 

"To  my  own  mansion,"  answered  the  man  with  half-concealed  ex- 
citement. "Is  there  not  one  here  for  me?  I  am  John  Wightman.  I 
wish  very  much  to  see  my  mansion.  I  believe  that  you  have  one  for  me. 
Will  you  take  me  to  it  ?" 

The  keeper  of  the  gate  drew  a  little  book  from  the  breast  of  his  robe 
and  turned  over  the  pages. 

"Certainly,"  he  said,  with  a  curious  look  at  the  man,  "Your  name  is 
here ;  and  you  shall  see  your  mansion  if  you  will  follow  me." 

It  seemed  as  if  they  must  have  walked  miles  and  miles  through  the 
vast  city  before  they  came  into  a  kind  of  suburb  where  there  were  many 
small  cottages.  Finally  they  reached  an  open  field,  barren  and  lonely 
looking.  In  the  center  of  the  field  was  a  tiny  hut,  hardly  big  enough  for 
a  shepherd's  shelter.  It  looked  as  if  it  had  been  built  of  discarded  things, 
scraps  and  fragments  of  other  buildings.  These,  however,  had  been  put 
together  with  great  care  by  someone  who  had  taken  great  pains  to  make 
the  most  of  cast-off  material.  There  was  something  pitiful  and  shameful 
about  the  hut. 


140  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

"This,"  said  the  keeper  of  the  gate,  standing  still  and  speaking  with 
a  low,  distinct  voice,  "This,  John  Wightman,  is  yours." 

An  almost  intolerable  shock  of  grief,  wonder  and  indignation  choked 
the  man  for  a  moment  so  that  he  could  not  say  a  word.  Then  finally  he 
turned  his  face  away  from  the  poor  little  hut  and  .began  to  remonstrate 
eagerly  with  his  companion. 

"Surely,  sir,"  he  stammered,  "You  must  be  in  error  about  this.  There 
is  something  wrong — some  other  John  Wightman — confusion  of  names 
— the  book  must  be  incorrect." 

"There  is  no  mistake,"  said  the  keeper  of  the  gate  very  calmly ;  "Here 
is  your  name,  the  record  of  your  title  and  of  your  possessions  in  this 
place." 

"But  how  could  such  a  house  be  prepared  for  me?"  cried  the  man, 
with  a  resentful  tremor  in  his  voice.  "Is  this  a  suitable  mansion  for  one 
so  well-known  and  so  successful  in  life  upon  the  earth?  Why  is  it  so 
pitifully  small  and  mean?  Why  have  you  not  built  it  large  and  fair  like 
the  others  ?" 

"That  is  all  the  material  you  sent  to  us." 

"What!" 

"We  have  used  all  the  material  that  you  sent  us,"  repeated  the  keeper 
of  the  gate. 

"I  acknowledge,"  added  the  man,  "that  I  considered  my  own  inter- 
ests too  much.   But  surely  not  altogether." 

Dimly,  through  the  trouble  of  his  mind,  John  Wightman  began  to 
see  the  seriousness  of  his  situation. 

"What  is  it  that  counts  here  ?"  he  asked. 

"Only  that  counts  here,"  said  the  keeper  of  the  gate,  "which  is  truly 
given.  Only  those  things  are  given  consideration  in  this  place  which  are 
done  solely  for  the  love  of  doing  good,  only  those  plans  are  given  con- 
sideration in  which  the  welfare  of  others  is  the  master  thought.  Only 
those  labors  count  here  in  which  the  sacrifice  is  greater  than  the  antici- 
pated reward.  Only  those  gifts  are  given  consideration  in  which  the  giver 
forgets  himself!" 

THE  WORDS  OF  THE  SAVIOR 

And  I  will  conclude  this,  my  appeal,  to  you,  to  come  to  the  support 
of  the  Church  Welfare  Plan  with  the  following  familiar  words  from  the 
25th  chapter  of  Matthew:  (verses  31-40) 

When  the  Son  of  Man  shall  come  in  His  glory,  and  all  the  holy 
angels  with  Him,  then  shall  He  sit  upon  the  throne  of  His  glory ; 

And  before  Him  shall  be  gathered  all  nations;  and  He  shall  sep- 
arate them  one  from  another,  as  a  shepherd  divideth  his  sheep  from 
the  goats ; 

And  He  shall  set  the  sheep  on  His  right  hand,  but  the  goats  on  the 

left. 

Then  shall  the  King  say  unto  them  on  His  right  hand,  Come,  ye 
blessed  of  my  Father,  inherit  the  kingdom  prepared  for  you  from  the 
foundation  of  the  world; 

For  I  was  an  hungered,  and  ye  gave  me  meat;  I  wqs  thirsty,  and 
ye  gave  me  drink ;  I  was  a  stranger,  and  ye  took  me  in ; 


ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 


141 


Naked,  and  ye  clothed  me;  I  was  sick,  and  ye  visited  me;  I  was  in 
prison,  and  ye  came  unto  me. 

Then  shall  the  righteous  answer  him,  saying,  Lord,  when  saw  we  thee 
an  hungered,  and  fed  thee?  or  thirsty,  and  gave  thee  drink? 

When  saw  we  thee  a  stranger,  and  took  thee  in  ?  or  naked,  and  clothed 
thee? 

Or  when  saw  we  thee  sick,  or  in  prison,  and  came  unto  thee? 

And  the  King  shall  answer  and  say  unto  them,  Verily  I  say  unto 
you,  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my 
brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 

Again,  in  the  language  of  Paul  the  Apostle,  let  us  "Remember  the 
words  of  the  Lord  Jesus  how  He  said,  It  is  more  blessed  to  give  than  to 
receive."  (Acts  20:35)  And  may  we  all  be  found  among  those  worthy, 
unselfish  and  righteous  ones  who  feed  the  hungry  and  clothe  the  naked, 
I  humbly  pray. 

ELDER  JOHN  H.  TAYLOR 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

As  a  people  we  have  been  thoroughly  traditionated  in  the 
thought  that  it  is  a  duty  as  well  as  a  privilege  for  all  of  our  men, 
as  conditions  will  permit,  to  go  out  and  preach  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Tradition  is  a  wholesome  thing  provided  it  has  had  its 
beginning  in  high  ideals,  courage,  the  thought  that  we  are  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  and  that  these  high  ideals  have  been  carried 
unchanged  from  the  past  down  to  the  present. 

ASSIGNING  MISSIONARIES  TO  NEW  FIELDS 

One  of  the  ideals  of  the  missionary  is  that  he  is  willing  to  go 
wherever  the  Lord  requires  him  to  do.  Last  night  in  our  Priesthood 
Meeting  we  sang  the  song  "I'll  Go  Where  You  Want  Me  to  Go,  Dear 
Lord."  Perhaps  we  never  have  had  the  same  opportunity  of  wit- 
nessing a  demonstration  of  this  attitude  with  as  large  a  number  as 
we  had  recently  when,  on  account  of  the  war,  missionaries  were  re- 
turned from  Europe  to  America.  Through  the  kindness  of  the  First 
Presidency  I  was  assigned  to  go  to  New  York  to  work  with  Presi- 
dent Frank  Evans  of  the  Eastern  States  Mission  in  receiving  the 
missionaries  as  they  arrived.  Hotel  accommodations  and  transporta- 
tion were  arranged  for  them  and  mission  assignments  were  made 
for  those  who  were  to  finish  their  missions  in  the  United  States  and 
Canada.  It  has  been  indicated  by  President  Clark  the  amount  of 
work  that  was  accomplished  in  handling  the  missionaries.  May  I 
say  in  addition  that  the  short  stay  of  the  missionaries  in  New  York 
was  made  more  enjoyable  because  of  the  splendid  hospitality  and 
kindness  of  President  and  Sister  Evans  and  the  missionaries  in  the 
office. 

When  the  missionaries  were  to  be  reassigned  we  expected  to 
use  the  same  methods  that  were  used  when  they  left  home,  that  is, 
we  thought  that  we  would  be  able  to  interview  missionaries  and  find 


142  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Snnday.  April  7  Third  Day 

out  in  detail  concerning  their  attitude  and  their  desires.  After  the 
first  group  or  so,  it  became  evident  that  because  of  the  short  time 
they  were  in  New  York,  this  would  be  impossible.  We  therefore 
took  the  attitude  that  most  of  the  missionaries  coming  from  Europe 
were  experienced,  well  trained  and  full  of  faith  and  therefore  would 
be  willing  to  go  wherever  they  might  be  assigned  for  the  best  inter- 
ests of  the  work  of  the  Lord. 

I  am  quite  sure  that  all  of  the  missionaries,  just  as  we  would 
have  felt  ourselves,  had  some  thought  or  desire  as  to  where  they 
would  like  to  labor  while  in  the  American  Missions.  Most  mission- 
aries, at  the  time  of  their  call,  have  had  the  experience  of  making 
mental  adjustments.  At  home  we  send  out  missionary  calls  all  over 
the  Church  only  knowing  in  a  small  way  the  disappointment  that 
sometimes  comes  to  the  missionary  and  the  parents  when  they  find 
that  he  has  been  assigned  to  a  mission  field  different  from  the  one 
most  desired.  But  with  good  courage  and  faith  in  the  work,  they 
do  not  ask  for  a  change. 

I  might  say  that  we  were  helped  in  selecting  new  mission  fields 
for  the  missionaries  by  the  kindly  instructions  of  the  brethren  at 
home  and  also  by  the  suggestions  of  the  Mission  Presidents  under 
whom  they  had  labored.  However,  these  suggestions  were  only 
few  in  number.  The  assignment  of  the  great  majority  was  left  to  me. 

A  meeting  was  held  with  each  group.  The  missionaries,  as  they 
came  into  these  meetings  had,  I  am  quite  certain,  a  desire  or  wish 
that  they  might  be  sent  to  certain  mission  fields.  We  came  to  each 
meeting  with  a  sincere  prayer  in  our  hearts  that  the  Lord  would 
guide  us  in  making  the  most  suitable  assignments.  When  names 
were  read  out  and  the  mission  fields  were  designated,  it  was  astonish- 
ing with  what  good  spirit  they  were  accepted.  The  cases  were  few 
and  far  between  when  information  was  brought  to  our  attention  that 
a  missionary  thought  he  should  have  been  sent  to  some  other  field.  I 
can  not  remember  of  any  missionary  saying  that  he  would  not  go 
to  the  field  assigned  to  him. 

To  me  it  was  one  of  the  finest  expressions  of  faith  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord  to  see  them  accept  these  appointments,  even  though  they 
might  not  have  been  as  agreeable  to  them  as  some  other  mission 
field.  And  so,  these  wonderful  boys  and  girls,  holding  on  to  the 
high  missionary  ideals  of  the  Church,  went  into  the  different  Ameri- 
can fields  and  made  the  adjustment  no  matter  what  it  was. 

COURAGE  AND  FAITH  OF  MISSIONARIES 

Not  only  had  each  missionary  the  experience  of  being  transfer- 
red from  one  field  to  another  but  he  also  had  the  sad  experience 
of  having  to  say  goodby  to  those  faithful  Saints  in  the  foreign 
fields.  I  am  speaking  of  those  men  and  women  in  Europe  who  have 
shown  much  true  devotion  to  the  work  of  the  Lord.  The  mission- 
aries had  also  come  in  contact  with  the  splendid  Presidents  and 
their  wives  in  the  foreign  fields.  They  had  learned  to  love  these 


ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 


143 


men  and  women,  had  become  sincerely  devoted  to  them  because 
of  their  humility  and  ability  as  leaders.  Now  they  were  to  come 
into  another  field  and  make  new  contacts,  to  work  under  different 
circumstances  and  conditions,  and  this  took  considerable  faith  and 
courage  on  the  part  of  all  these  missionaries. 

The  reports  that  have  come  to  us  from  the  American  fields 
have  been  most  favorable.  You  parents  can  certainly  be  very  proud 
of  these  boys  and  girls  of  yours  who  were  in  Europe,  because  of 
their  attitude,  their  love  of  the  work,  their  devotion  to  the  Cause, 
and  their  determination  to  make  good  in  any  field  or  under  any 
condition. 

If  future  missionaries,  parents,  and  those  in  leadership  could 
constantly  keep  before  them  this  example  of  holding  true  to  high 
missionary  ideals,  I  am  sure  that  we  should  find  an  increase  in  hap- 
piness, spirituality  and  usefulness  on  the  part  of  missionaries  as 
they  give  service  to  our  Heavenly  Father. 

May  this  be  a  part  of  our  missionary  life,  a  part  of  our  true 
tradition  that  has  been  carried  forward  so  splendidly  all  these  years, 
and  may  we  not  be  found  wanting  as  we  are  called  into  the  field, 
I  pray  in  Jesus'  name,  Amen. 

ELDER  RUFUS  K.  HARDY 

of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that  I  feel,  as  do  you 
on  this  occasion,  gratitude  and  joy  and  thanksgiving  in  our  hearts 
for  the  presence  here  of  President  McKay. 

THE  INFLUENCE  OF  THE  CONFERENCE  FELT  AFAR  OFF 

Somehow  or  other  I  feel  that  perhaps  I  am  not  mistaken  in  the 
thought  that  President  Grant  has  been  here  with  us.  You  know  this 
world  and  its  influences  move  on,  and  some  marvelous  things  are 
coming  constantly.  Even  today  we  have  had  a  message  from  him, 
and  his  spirit  and  influence  have  been  with  us.  When  we  gather  to- 
gether such  a  great  concourse  of  people,  such  a  marvelous  gathering 
of  the  Priesthood  as  was  here  last  night,  that  power,  that  influence, 
that  strength  and  might  which  emanate  from  each  individual  spirit 
are  felt  by  other  individuals,  and  I  feel  confident  President  Grant  "will 
have  received  this  spirit  and  this  influence,  together  with  love,  hope, 
faith,  and  strength  from  us.  Therefore,  he  has  been  blessed  and  we 
have  been  blessed  in  receiving  from  him  his  blessedness,  his  tender- 
ness, love,  and  felicitations. 

I  thank  God  for  His  peaceful,  sweet  influence  which  has  per- 
meated this  Conference  and  that  all  of  us  have  been  filled  with  the 
testimony  of  Jesus  Christ,  and  the  knowledge  that  God  is  our  Father.- 

STAKE  MISSIONARY  WORK 

As  I  come  to  these  Conferences  lately  I  have  only  one  thing  on 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dag 


my  mind  that  I  should  like  above  everything  else  to  mention,  and 
that  is  the  work  which  is  being  done  by  the  two  thousand  mission- 
aries in  your  midst  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion.  I  thank  you  sincerely  for 
your  help  and  I  would  like  you  to  know  that  during  the  year  1939, 
two  thousand  two  hundred  and  twenty  souls  have  been  added  to  this 
Church  through  the  missionary  labors  of  those  in  the  Stakes  of 
Zion  of  this  Church,  and  that  four  thousand  souls  have  been  gathered 
into  the  fold  who  had  become  somewhat  indifferent  and  inactive. 
Those  six  thousand  people  engaging  in  activity  in  this  Church — 
and  they  are  about  half  the  size  of  this  audience — will  add  mighty 
strength  and  tremendous  force  to  the  work  of  God  going  on  here  on 
the  earth  today. 

'  I  sincerely  trust  that  the  early  days  of  this  missionary  work, 
recently  inaugurated,  are  over,  and  that  our  fine  and  splendid  Bishops 
— God  bless  them  for  the  help  they  have  given — won't  give  us  Tom, 
Dick,  or  Harry,  whom  they  never  have  been  able  to  get  to  do  any- 
thing, and  so  they  suggest  them  to  the  President  of  the  Stake  because 
if  he  can  do  anything  with  them  in  the  missionary  field  the  Bishops 
would  like  to  see  it  done. 


God,  our  Heavenly  Father,  chose  to  give  to  you  and  to  me  the 
choicest  soul  He  had — His  Only  Begotten- — to  lead  the  great  mis- 
sionary work  of  the  earth  and  be  the  pattern  for  us  to  follow.  These 
men  and  women,  our  stake  missionaries,  are  meeting  up  and  down 
the  highways  and  the  byways  of  our  own  cities  and  towns  the 
finer  people,  the  better  class,  those  who  need  and  seek  instruction, 
and  we  need  that  better  type  of  missionary;  not  only  one  who  is 
trained,  but  one  who  is  willing  and  desires  to  go  forth  and  do  that 
which  God  would  have  him  do.  I  am  sure  that  our  work  will  be 
made  much  plainer  and  much  more  happiness  will  result  if  we  are 
given  that  kind  of  missionary. 


I  want  to  read  to  you  something  that  I  have  copied,  and  then 

close : 
• 

No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought  to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of 
the  Priesthood,  only  by  persuasion,  by  long-suffering,  by  gentleness  and 
meekness,  and  by  love  unfeigned ;  *  *  * 

Let  thy  bowels  also  be  full  of  charity  towards  all  men,  and  to  the 
household  of  faith,  and  let  virtue  garnish  thy  thoughts  unceasingly; 
then  shall  thy  confidence  wax  strong  in  the  presence  of  God;  and  the 
doctrine  of  the  Priesthood  shall  distil  upon  thy  soul  as  the  dews  from 
heaven. 

I  am  sure  that  we  have  received  great  blessings,  great  joys,  and 
great  happiness  in  this  Conference,  and  I  know  that  when  we  thank 
God  for  what  we  possess  and  what  we  are,  we  can  do  it  with  a  better 
understanding  and  a  fuller  meaning,  so  that  God  Himself  will  know 


THE  TYPE  OF  MISSIONARIES  NEEDED  AT  HOME 


THE  WORD  OF  THE  LORD 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


145 


that  we  do  those  things  which  we  have  been  taught  and  trained  to 
do,  which  have  been  revealed  by  Him.  May  He  give  to  us  grace, 
peace,  courage,  and  above  everything  else  a  desire  to  do  that  which 
is  right,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

I  have  been  thrilled  since  the  opening  of  this  Conference  with 
each  of  the  statements  of  my  brethren,  as  I  am  sure  you  have  been, 
beginning  with  the  greeting  from  President  Grant,  continuing  with 
the  broad,  enlightening  view  of  the  past  year,  and  the  deep  and 
solemn  admonitions  for  the  year  to  come  by  President  Clark,  and 
continuing  down  through  the  remainder  of  the  speakers. 

I  was  thrilled  this  morning  to  have  with  us  President  McKay 
and  to  hear  his  remarks,  as  I  know  all  of  you  were. 

RECORDS  MADE  BY  LEADING  BRETHREN 

When  I  came  to  my  present  calling  in  the  Church  I  thought  per- 
haps I  should  make  something  of  a  reputation  in  some  field  or  an- 
other, and  I  looked  around  to  see  what  records  might  be  available 
that  could  be  acquired.  I  saw  that  some  of  my  brethren  had  acquired, 
justifiably,  a  reputation  for  being  authorities  in  the  field  of  doctrine 
— some  were  trained  in  the  professions — some  in  law,  some  in  the 
sciences ;  and  I  concluded  that  about  the  only  record  that  was  left 
for  me  to  strive  for  was  that  of  brevity  of  expression,  but  I  antici- 
pated no  such  cooperation  from  the  presiding  officer  in  helping  me 
to  achieve  this  record  as  I  have  had  here  today.  (Laughter.) 

SPEECHES  THAT  WERE  NOT  DELIVERED 

I  think  it  was  just  about  a  year  ago  at  this  hour  that  a  similar 
situation  had  arisen,  and  Dr.  Widtsoe  was  called  upon  to  speak.  He 
advised  us  that  he  had  a  prepared  talk  in  his  pocket,  but  there  was 
no  time  to  deliver  it  and  he  would  probably  deliver  it  at  the  next  Con- 
ference. I  think  he  did  not  deliver  it  at  the  next  Conference,  how- 
ever, and  my  curiosity,  fully  equal  to  that  of  a  woman  on  this  partic- 
ular subject,  got  the  better  of  me,  and-I  have  asked  him  several  times 
since  what  that  talk  was  about.  He  has  merely  smiled,  and  I  do  not 
know  yet. 

I  think  my  retaliation  at  this  time  will  be  of  like  character.  I 
have  a  talk  in  my  pocket.  It  was  to  have  been  a  very  good  one. 
(Laughter.)  It  is  still  a  very  good  one,  but  it  is  not  for  the  ears  of 
this  congregation.  I  am  not  above  borrowing  time  from  my  brethren 
here  on  the  stand,  but  there  is  no  one  left  to  borrow  it  from  except 
the  congregation,  and  I  refuse  to  do  that. 

A  TESTIMONY  AS  TO  TITHING 

.    I  should  like  to  say  one  thing  more.    I  was  happy  to  hear  the 


146  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday.  April  7  Third  Dag 

remarks  yesterday  of  Brother  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  concerning  the 
subject  of  tithing,  and  the  brief  but  forceful  message  given  in  the 
Priesthood  meeting  last  night  on  the  same  subject  by  President 
Clark.  I  do  not  know  what  a  full  tithing  means  to  you,  but  I  know 
what  it  means  to  me  by  the  teachings  of  my  great  and  good  mother 
whose  presence  I  so  sorely  miss  at  this  time.  It  has  meant  to  me  all 
the  days  of  my  life  a  tenth  of  every  dollar  that  ever  passed  through 
my  hands,  whether  by  gift  or  as  a  reward  for  labor.  I  am  grateful 
for  that  example  and  that  teaching. 

I  have  thought  at  times  that  I  would  like  to  put  the  Lord  in  my 
debt,  but  have  found  that  it  is  impossible  to  do  so,  and  I  commend  to 
all  of  you  who  have  not  experienced  the  surpassing  joy  of  attempting 
to  do  so  that  you.  do  it.  No  one  with  whom  you  have  any  business 
in  this  world  or  out  of  it  will  repay  you  so  surely  or  so  generously. 
That  is  my  testimony ;  it  has  proved  to  be  so  in  my  own  life,  and  I 
know  it  will  in  the  life  of  every  Latter-day  Saint  who  will  take  this 
principle  of  the  Gospel  and  live  it  and  reap  from  it  all  the  material 
and  spiritual  rewards  that  come  therefrom. 

I  wish  to  leave  you  my  testimony  this  day,  that  I  know  that  God 
lives  as  well  as  I  know  any  of  the  material  facts  of  life,  or  anything 
that  I  can  reach  out  and  touch  with  my  hand ;  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  as  have  been 
all  his  successors,  including  our  present  leader,  President  Heber  J. 
Grant,  whom  I  pray  God  will  increase  in  health  and  strength  and  re- 
turn to  us,  and  I  speak  it  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

ELDER  MARK  B.  GARFF 

Former  President  of  the  Danish  Mission 

"Blessed  is  he  who  endureth  to  the  end." 

I  bring  the  good  greetings  and  the  love  of  the  Danish  people  who 
belong  to  the  Church,  to  President  Grant,  President  Clark,  President 
McKay,  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  the  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventy, 
the  Presiding  Bishopric  and  the  Presiding  Patriarch  of  the  Church. 
That  is  my  first  obligation  to  this  group. 

My  second  obligation  is  that  I  shall  extend  the  love  of  the 
Danish  people  to  the  congregation  of  the  Church.  That  was  their 
wish  and  their  desire  before  I  left  that  land. 

I  express  my  appreciation  to  Elder  Richard  R.  Lyman,  Elder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  Elder  Sylvester  Q.  Cannon  for  their 
visits  to  the  Danish  Mission,  for  the  inspiration  that  they  brought. 
I  am  most  grateful  and  thankful  for  the  opportunity  I  have  had  of 
giving  service,  that  I  was  an  instrument  in  the  hands  of  the  Lord 
in  helping  to  evacuate  the  missionaries  from  Europe  under  the  juris- 
diction and  leadership  of  Elder  Joseph  Fielding  Smith.  I  learned  to 
love  him  and  I  appreciate  him.  Even  though  we  were  eight  thou- 
sand miles  from  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ, 
yet  I  am  sure  that  the  same  inspiration  dominated  all  of  us,  and  your 


ELDER  MARK  B.  GARFF 


147 


sons  and  your  daughters  returned  to  the  land  of  Zion,  "a  choice 
land  above  all  other  lands,"  because  of  the  inspiration  that  our 
Heavenly  Father  granted  unto  His  servants. 

There  is  one  thought  that  I  would  like  to  leave  with  you,  and 
that  thought  is  this :  Why  are  you  here  today  ?  Why  are  you  not  in 
war-torn  Europe?  Why  aren't  bombs  falling  on  you?  This  is  the 
only  place  in  the  world  today — the  United  States — where  there  is 
any  religious  security,  it  is  the  only  place  where  there  is  any  guar- 
antee of  religious  security,  and  why  are  you  here  ?  Why  have  you 
been  so  blessed?  Because  the  Lord  God  talked  to  Joseph  Smith  and 
gave  him  commandments  concerning  the  peoples  of  the  earth;  that 
he  should  go,  and  that  he  should  send  others  to  preach  the  Gospel  to 
the  nations  of  the  earth.  Some  humble  missionary  left  Salt  Lake 
City,  or  left  some  other  city,  and  went  into  far-away  Denmark,  into 
far-away  Norway,  and  into  far-away  Germany,  and  other  nations  and 
sought  out  our  parents,  our  grandparents,  our  great  grandparents, 
and  because  the  Lord  sent  those  men  we  are  enjoying  the  blessings 
of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  We  are  not  Americans,  a  great  part 
of  us,  because  of  any  choice  of  our  own,  but  because  missionaries 
went  to  that  land  and  brought  us  here.  We  owe  that  to  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ ;  we  owe  it  to  the  Church. 

If  for  no  other  reason  I  paid  my  tithing  I  would  pay  it  because 
some  humble  missionary  brought  my  grandparents  to  this  country. 
I  have  an  opportunity  for  religious  freedom ;  I  have  an  opportunity 
for  economic  security ;  I  have  an  opportunity  to  hear  the  voice  of 
the  prophet  of  the  living  God,  and  oh  how  grateful  I  am  that  I  have 
a  testimony  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ !  How  grateful  I  am  that 
some  missionary  sought  out  my  grandparents !  How  blessed  am  I 
that  I  have  had  the  opportunity  of  rendering  service  in  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints!  I  say  this  to  you  in  all  sin- 
cerity. The  greatest  thing  that  you  and  I  can  do  is  to  give  more 
richly  than  we  have  received. 

I  bear  witness  to  you  as  a  servant  of  God  that  He  lives,  and  that 
His  coming  is  near  at  hand.  I  bear  witness  to  you  that  the  door  is 
opening,  for  He  said  a  hundred  years  ago  that  His  coming  was  near 
at  hand,  even  at  our  very  door,  and  the  Lord  will  show  unto  the  na- 
tions, and  unto  you,  and  unto  all  mankind  that  that  which  the  proph- 
ets have  said  is  true. 

As  recorded  in  the  first  section  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants, 
the  Lord  said  the  time  would  come  that  they  who  would  not  hear  the 
voice  of  His  servants,  the  voice  of  the  prophets,  and  the  voice  of  the 
Apostles,  would  be  cut  off  from  among  the  people,  and  that  has 
happened. 

God  grant  that  we  may  appreciate  the  fact  that  we  are  Ameri- 
cans. Do  not  sell  your  birthright  for  a  mess  of  pottage.  Do  not 
barter  your  freedom  away.  Do  not  trade  your  Constitution  for  all 
the  things  and  all  the  thoughts  that  are  propounded  by  men,  for  they 
would  steal  from  you  your  freedom,  and  the  Gospel,  and  your  soul 
for  the  almighty  dollar.    God  lives.    This  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 


148  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

Christ,  and  I  bear  you  my  testimony  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ, 
Amen. 

PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 

I  feel  that  I  owe  an  apology  to  the  other  brethren  because  our 
trouble  here  runs  back  to  the  beginning;  I  talked  too  much  the  first 
day.  So  Brother  Jacobs  of  the  Palestine-Syrian  Mission,  Brother 
A.  Richard  Peterson  of  the  Norwegian  Mission,  and  later,  Brother 
John  A.  Israelson  of  the  Norwegian  Mission,  we  shall  hear  from 
you  next  time. 

I  might  say  just  a  word  myself.  I  wish  sincerely  to  thank  the 
brethren  and  sisters  for  the  prayers  which  they  have  offered  up  in 
my  behalf.  Only  the  Lord  Himself  knows  how  much  I  needed  help. 
This  has  been  my  first  experience,  I  hope  it  is  my  last.  I  am  grateful 
for  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  has  been  with  us.  I  am  grateful  for 
the  blessings  that  have  come  from  the  testimonies  of  the  brethren 
who  have  spoken,  and  grateful  that  we  have  been  able  to  let  Presi- 
dent Grant  hear  this  great  Conference. 

I  also  leave  my  testimony  with  you  of  the  truth  of  this  great 
work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I  ask  God  to  bless  us  always,  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ,  Amen. 

I  wish  to  thank  the  choir  for  the  music  rendered  at  this  Confer- 
ence, beautiful  and  inspirational  it  has  been  as  always. 

An  anthem,  "Worthy  is  the  Lamb,  and  'Amen,'"  (Handel), 
was  sung  by  the  Choir. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Burgon,  President  of  the  East  Jordan  Stake, 
offered  the  benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  musical  exercises  at  the  Friday  sessions  were  furnished  by 
the  Brigham  Young  University  Chorus,  under  the  joint  direction 
of  Dr.  Franklin  W.  Madsen  and  Dr.  Florence  Jepperson  Madsen ;  at 
the  Saturday  sessions,  by  the  Ricks  College  Choir,  John  M.  Ander- 
son, Director;  and  at  the  Sunday  services  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Director. 

The  congregational  singing  was  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall and  Richard  P.  Condie. 

Accompaniments  and  interludes  on  the  great  organ  were  played 
by  Alexander  Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper.  Organ  accompani- 
ments and  solo  presentations  for  the  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ 
Broadcast  Sunday  morning  were  played  by  Frank  W.  Asper. 


Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference  were  taken  by  Frank  W. 
Otterstrom  and  Joseph  Anderson. 

Joseph  Anderson 

Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


INDEX 


Ashton,  Elder  Marvin  O  -  122 

A  tribute  to  President  McKay,  122 — Sustaining  our  leaders,  122. 

Auditing  Committee,  Report  of   12 

Authorities  Present    1 

Authorities  Sustained   74 

Auxiliary  Officers  of  the  Church  -   76 

Bennion,  Elder  Samuel  O.   90 


An  inspired  leadership,  91 — Witnesses  for  Christ,  91 — Modern 
witnesses,  92 — More  than  one  witness  necessary,  93 — David  Whit- 
mer's  testimony,  93 — Oliver  Cowdery  and  Martin  Harris,  94 — 
Testimony  comes  from  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  94. 

Bowen,  Elder  Albert  E   66 

The  Savior's  words,  66 — The  meaning  changed,  66 — A  higher  in- 
terpretation, 67 — Parable  of  the  rich  man,  67 — Care  of  the  body 
essential,  67 — President  Young's  practical  teaching,  68 — The  ulti- 
mate purpose  of  life,  68 — Acceptance  of  Gospel  teachings  neces- 
sary, 69 — The  tempter  overcome,  70 — Eternal  life  is  the  greatest 
prize,  70. 


Broadcast,  Choir  and  Organ   112 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B  -   27 

Callis,  Elder  Charles  A   88 

A  special  appointment,  88 — Early  missionary  work  in  Hawaii,  88 
— The  power  of  Jesus  Christ,  89 — A  visit  to  the  island  of  Molokai, 
89 — Testimony  of  God's  goodness,  90. 

Cannon,  Elder  Sylvester  Q   23 

Wars  and  rumors  of  war,  23 — Quotation  from  a  British  thinker, 

24 —  Free  agency  given  to  man,  24 — Joy  comes  from  serving  God, 

25 —  The  sovereignty  of  God,  26 — The  Gospel  brings  peace,  27. 

Changes  in  Officers   8 

Church  Officers,  Presentation  of   74 

Church  Welfare  Work   5 

Clawson,  Elder  Rudger   57 

An  inspired  hymn,  57 — Work  of  the  ancient  prophets,  57 — Bless- 
ings of  the  latter  days,  58 — The  work  in  the  temples,  59 — Mis- 
sionary service,  59 — Sealed  portion  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  60. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   4 

Visit  with  President  Grant,  4. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   12 

Significant  features  of  the  Annual  Report,  12 — Church  income 
dependent  upon  faith  and  prosperity,  12 — Tithing  a  trust  fund,  14 


— The  Church  free  from  debt,  14— The  Welfare  program,  15 — 
Wheat  to  be  stored,  16 — Work  yet  to  be  done,  16— Economy  in 
erection  of  buildings,  17 — Beautification  plan  approved,  17 — Aux- 
iliary organizations  to  help  the  homes,  18 — Church  education,  18 — 
Withdrawal  of  European  missionaries,  19 — Responsibility  of 
Priesthood,  20 — World  conditions,  21 — The  women  of  the  Church,- 
21 — The  youth  of  the  Church,  22 — Organizations  commended,  22 
— Loyalty  brings  blessings,  22. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   30 

Urging  Saints  to  drive  carefully,  30. 


ISO  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   56 

Gratitude  to  Brigham  Young  University  for  music  furnished,  56. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr   71 

Explanation  of  manner  of  voting,  71 — Church  office  not  sought, 
72 — Revelations  regarding  the  President  of  the  Church,  72 — At- 
titude of  the  First  Presidency,  7,3 — Responsibility  in  voting,  73. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.   82 

Announced  dissenting  vote,  82. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  105 

Gratitude  to  Ricks  College  Choir  for  music  furnished,  105. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  106 

Need  for  larger  quarters  for  conferences,  106. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  112 

Message  from  President  Grant,  112. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr.  123 

Speaks  of  Conference  crowds,  123. 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr  148 

Gratitude  for  prayers  of  Saints,  148 — Testimony,  148. 

Evans,  Elder  Joseph  E.   64 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  145 

Records  made  by  leading  brethren,  145 — Speeches  that  were  not 
delivered,  145 — A  testimony  as  to  tithing,  145. 

Financial  Statement  of  the  Church   4 

First  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting   30 

First  Day,  Morning  Meeting    2 

Garff,  Elder  Mark  B  146 

General  Authorities  Present    1 

General  Authorities  Sustained   74 

General  Auxiliary  Officers   76 

General  Officers  of  the  Church  '..  75 

Grant,  President  Heber  J.    2 

Activities  in  California  followed  by  sickness,  2 — Blessing  and  com- 
mendation, 3 — Appeal  to  the  young,  3 — A  testimony,  3 — Expres- 
sion of  sympathy,  3 — Prayer  and  blessing,  3. 

Grant,  President  Heber  J  130 

Message  from  California,  130. 

Hardy,  Elder  Rufus  K  143 

The  influence  of  the  Conference  felt  afar  off,  143 — Stake  Mission- 
ary work,  143 — Type  of  missionaries  needed  at  home,  144 — The 
word  of  the  Lord,  144. 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R   60 

A  desire  to  be  helpful,  60 — The  word  of  the  Lord,  61 — The  Gospel 
for  both  rich  and  poor,  61 — Our  responsibility  towards  our  neigh- 
bors, 62 — Christian  principles  not  applied  in  the  world,  63. 

Lyman,  Elder  Richard  R.  135 


I 


INDEX  151 

Direction  of  Welfare  Plan  by  leaders,  135 — The  importance  of 
efficiency,  135— Thrift  urged,  135 — Projects  to  be  planned,  137 — 
Human  beings  not  all  alike,  137— A  good  report  from  one  Stake, 
137 — A  story  reviewed,  137 — The  words  of  the  Savior,  140. 

McKay,  President  David  O  112 

Appreciation  for  blessings,  112 — Increase  of  activity  in  the  Church, 
113 — Evils  of  War,  113 — Courage  needed  amidst  conflict,  114 — 
Peace  through  Jesus  Christ,  114 — The  blessing  of  life,  115 — Bless- 
ings of  fellowship,  116 — Free  agency  a  gift  from  God,  116 — Dan- 
gers seen  in  certain  types  of  government,  117 — Freedom  a  glorious 
privilege,  118 — A  warning  to  Latter-day  Saints,  118 — Faith  in  God 
brings  peace,  118. 

McKay,  Elder  Thomas  E   48 

Merrill,  Elder  Joseph  F   43. 

Commandments  regarding  the  Sabbath,  43 — Teachings  of  modern 
scriptures,  44 — President  Joseph  F.  Smith's  advice,  45 — The  First 
Presidency's  appeal,  46 — Sabbath  observance  a  blessing,  47. 

Murdock,  Elder  Franklin  J  103 

Richards,  Elder  George  F   30 

Appeal  to  the  indifferent,  30 — The  Savior's  mission,  31 — The  Word 
of  Wisdom,  31 — Tithes  and  offerings,  32 — The  Chosen  ones,  33 — 
The  Higher  law,  introduced,  33 — The  meaning  of  a  hymn,  33 — 
Joy  in  doing  right,  34. 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand  130 

Present  need  for  teaching  the  Word  of  Wisdom,  131 — Manifesta- 
tion to  a  Patriarch,  131 — Effects  of  breaking  the  Word  of  Wisdom 
far-reaching,  132 — Liquor  and  its  train  of  evils  ,  133 — Outstanding 
example  of  an  actress,  133 — Immorality  a  modern  curse,  134. 

Richards,  Elder  Stephen  L  123 

Description  of  beauty  spots,  123 — Impression  made  on  friends,  124 
— Grand  Canyon,  Cedar  Breaks,  and  Zion  Park,  124 — An  inspiring- 
symbol,  125 — Improvements  needed,  125 — Cooperation  necessary, 
126 — Love  of  beauty  innate,  127 — An  appeal  for  beautiful  home 
surroundings,  128 — A  great  leader  mentioned,  129. 

Second  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting    82 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting  ,   56 

Smith,  Elder  George  Albert   83 

Belief  in  a  God  of  miracles  necessary,  83 — The  love  of  God  the 
same  in  all  ages,  84 — The  adversary  opposes  the  leaders  of  God's 
work,  85 — The  Lord's  ways  are  different  from  man's,  86 — Safety 
in  keeping  God's  commandments,  87 — Gratitude  for  blessings,  87. 

Smith,  Elder  Joseph  Fielding   -   95 

Covenants  to  be  kept,  95 — Guidance  comes  from  the  Holy  Ghost, 
96 — President  Brigham  Young's  advice  to  Bishops,  97 — Fast  Day 
requirements,  97 — Joseph  Smith's  teachings  regarding  perfection, 
98 — Faithfulness  a  protection  against  evil,  98. 

Smoot,  Elder  Reed   .119 

The  power  of  the  Priesthood,  119 — Charity  a  Christian  virtue,  119 
— 'Quotations  from  scripture,  119 — The  Gospel  a  cure  for  the  ills 
of  the  world,  120 — Aaron  and  Miriam,  120 — Saying  of  the  Savior, 
121 — Love  will  finally  triumph,  121. 


152 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Taylor,  Elder  John  H  141 

Assigning  missionaries  to  new  fields,  141 — Courage  and  faith  of 
missionaries,  142. 

Third  Day,  Afternoon  Meeting  122 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting  106 

Toronto,  Elder  Wallace  F   51 

Wells,  Elder  Rulon  S   39 

A  testimony  at  an  early  age,  39 — A  prayer  in  the  mountains,  40 — 
A  remarkable  dream,  41 — Admiration  for  leaders,  42 — Assurance 
of  the  Lord's  approval,  42. 

Widtsoe,  Elder  John  A   35 

A  tribute  to  President  Grant,  35 — A  standard  to  the  world,  35 — • 
Individual  responsibility,  35 — Jesus'  prayer  for  the  disciples,  36- — 
The  commandments  of  the  Lord  have  spiritual  meaning,  37 — The 
Word  of  Wisdom  helps  in  self-mastery,  37 — Tithing  in  a  spiritual 
sense,  38 — Work  for  the  dead  develops  spirituality,  38 — Zion  to  be 
built  by  overcoming  selfishness,  39. 

Wirthlin,  Elder  Joseph  L  107 

Church  Welfare  program  of  a  permanent  nature,  107 — Store- 
houses to  be  built,  107 — Praise  for  Welfare  workers,  108 — Individ- 
ual responsibility,  109 — Fast  Offering  Plan,  109 — Love  for  God 
shown  by  service,  111 — The  words  of  the  Savior,  111. 

Wood,  Elder  M.  Douglas   77 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar   99 

Education  in  New  England,  99 — Faith  necessary  to  higher  life,  99 
Message  of  Jesus,  100— -The  struggle  between  the  spiritual  and  the 
material,  101 — Christianity  most  vital  to  meet  problems,  101 — Re- 
ligion and  education.  102 — A  writer's  prayer,  103. 


(Book, 

The  Deseret  Boole  Company  is  headquarters  for  all 
L.  D.  S.  publications,  as  well  as  for  general  books  of 
every  kind.   We  especially  call  your  attention  to  the 

following  books,  on  sale  here: 

Program  oi  the  Church  oi  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  by  John  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

Priesthood  and  Church  Welfare 

(Specially  priced  while  they  last  90c — 6  for  $5.00 

A  Rational  Theology 
by  J.  A.  Widtsoe  $1.00  (postpaid) 

A  Century  of  Mormonism  in  Great  Britain, 

by  Richard  L.  Evans  $1.25  (postpaid) 

Romance  of  the  Book  of  Mormon, 

by  losiah  E.  Hickman.  $2.50  (postpaid) 

Progress  of  Man, 
by  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  $1.50  (postpaid) 

Whatever  your  book  needs,  consult  us  first.  We  have 
the  most  comprehensive  stock  of  books  in  the  inter- 
mountain  region,  and  we  specialize  in  books  about  the 
Mormons  and  the  West.  We  invite  your  inquiries. 

Prompt  Service  by  Mail. 


DESERET  BOOK  COMPANY 

44  East  South  Temple,  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 


Taken  from  his  sermons  and  writings  as  they  are  found  in  the  Documentary 
History  and  other  publications  of  the  Church  and  written  or  published  in 
the  days  oi  the  Prophet's  ministry 

Selected  and  arranged  by  the  Historian,  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  and  his 
Assistants  in  the  Historian's  Office  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Many  of  these  discourses  and  writings  appear  in  the  Documentary 
History  of  the  Church,  but  others  have  not  been  included  in  these  volumes, 
but  are  scattered  through  the  early  publications  of  the  Church.  It  has 
been  difficult  even  for  the  student  to  obtain  these  because  the  old  publica- 
tions are  not  accessible  for  general  use. 

SPECIALLY  PRICED  AT  $2.00 


Stories  of  Latter-day  Saint  Hymns 

(Their  Authors  and  Composers) 
By 

GEORGE  D.  PYPER 

"The  Latter-day  Saints  have  always  been  a  singing  people.  Some 
of  their  greatest  sermons  and  messages  have  come  through  the  avenue  of 
song." 

So  writes  the  author,  George  D.  Pyper,  in  this  fascinating  story  of  an 
essential  feature  in  the  lives  of  a  culture  loving  people. 

Well  illustrated  throughout,  this  work  will  take  a  high  place  in  literary 
circes,  and  will  win  a  permanent  spot  in  the  hearts  of  all  lovers  of  great 
and  good  music. 

PRICE — $2.00 


LIFE  OF  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH 

Sixth  President  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 
By  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

From  the  day  of  his  birth  until  the  day  of  his  passing — four  score 
years — there  was  scarcely  a  day  that  was  not  filled  with  intense  and  in- 
teresting activity.  He  commenced  life  in  the  midst  of  tribulation  and 
dark  persecution,  and  through  the  greater  part  of  his  life  he  was  called 
upon  to  face  the  spirit  of  hate  and  wickedness,  to  a  degree  almost  beyond 
human  endurance. 

This  volume  dedicated  to  a  man  among  men  with  the  faith  of  the 
prophets  of  old.  Its  worth  in  your  library  is  incomprehensible  and  its  pres- 
ence, when  read,  will  give  words  of  wisdom  and  words  of  courage. 

PRICE— $2.50 

DESERET  BODE  COMPANY 


44  East  on  South  Temple 


Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


