Annual  Conference 

r-y-:  OF  THE 


CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST  OF  LAT= 
TER=DAY  SAINTS, 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City,  April  5th,  6th  and 
7th,  1901,  with  a  full  report  of  the  discourses. 


ALSO  AN  ACCOUNT  OF  THE  GENERAL  CONFER- 
ENCE  OF   THE   DESERET  SUNDAY 
SCHOOL  UNION. 


THE  DESERET  NEWS 
■  901. 


Profusely  Illustrated 

A  Magazine  and  a 

with   Etchings  and 

Daily  Newspaper 

Half  Tones. 

Combined. 

Th 


e 


Saturday 
News 


24  PAGES. 


Sent  to  any  address 
for   $2.00  a  Year. 

^ 


To  regular  subscribers 
of  the  Semi- Weekly 
News,  $1.50  a  Year. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


OF 

THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS. 


FIRST  DAY. 


The  Seventy-first  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  convened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, Salt  Lake  City,  on  Friday,  April 
5,  at  10  a.  m.,  President  Lorenzo  Snow 
presiding. 

Of  the  general  authorities  present 
there  were,  of  the  First  Presidency, 
Lorenzo  Snow  and  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
(President  George  Q.  Cannon  was  ab- 
sent on  account  of  severe  illness,)  of 
the  quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles— 
Brigham  Young,  Francis  M.  Lyman, 
John  Henry  Smith,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
John  W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill, 
Anthon  H.  i^und,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson 
and  Reed  Smoot;  Patriarch  John 
Smith;  of  the  First  Seven  Presidents  of 
Seventies — Seymour  B.  Toung,  George 
Reynolds,  Brigham  H.  Roberts,  Jona- 
than G.  Kimball,  Rulon  S.  Wells  and 
Joseph  W.  McMurrin;  of  the  Presiding 
Bishopric — William  B.  Preston,  Robert 
T.  Burton  and  John  R.  Winder. 

The  services  opened  by  the  choir  and 
congregation  singing  the  hymn  which 
begins: 

"Come  let  us  anew,  our  journey  pur- 
sue." 

Opening  prayer  was  offered  by  Elder 
John  Nicholson. 

"All  hail  the  glorious  day, 
By  prophets  long  foretold." 

Was  sung  by  the  choir. 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 

OPENING  ADDnlSS. 

Prosperity  due  to  the  blessings  of  God— Our  lives 
immortal  and  progressive — Glorious  future 
prospects— Pu> pose  of  our  earthly  existence — 
Reluctance  of  the  world  to  receive  the  truth— 
Exhoitation  to  faithfulness. 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
through  the  assistance  of  your  pray- 
ers and  the  exercise  of  your  faith,  we 
expect  that  the  Lord  will  bestow  upon 
us  His  choice  blessings  during  this 
conference.  This  work  in  which  you 
and  I  are  engaged  can  only  prosper 
and  be  forwarded  through  the  blessings 
of  God  upon  our  faithful  and  honest 
exertions  and  our  determination  to  ac- 
complish the  labors  for  which  we  have 
come  into  this  existence.  When  we  look 
back  upon  the  experiences  through 
which  we  have  passed,  we  easily  un- 
derstand that  our  prosperity  has  been 
dependent  upon  our  honest  endeavors 
to  accomplish  the  work  of  God,  to  la- 
bor in  the  interest  of  the  people,  and 
to  rid  ourselves  as  far  as  possible  of 
selfishness.  This  having  been  so  in  the 
past,  we  can  well  believe  that  our  fu- 
ture progress  will  depend  upon  our  de- 
termination to  do  the  will  of  God  under 
all  circumstances  and  the  aid  which 
He  shall  give  to  us. 

You  will  have  the  privilege  of  hearing 
quite  a  number  of  speeches  during  this 
conference  from  the  brethren  sitting 
upon  the  stand,  and  perhaps  from  oth- 
ers; and  you  having  come  here,  no 
doubt,     for   the   purpose   of  receiving 


2 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


something  that  will  reward  you  for  the 
sacrifice  which  some  of  you  may  have 
made  in  coming,  I  hope  that  you  will 
be  well  repaid  for  all  the  inconveni- 
ences which  you  may  have  suffered  in 
coming  to  this  conference. 

There  are  many  things  worthy  of  our 
consideration  as  we  move  along  in  the 
pathway  to  exaltation  and  glory.  There 
are  some  points  we  may  think  about 
that  are  of  superior  consequence.  In 
considering  ourselves  and  how  we  have 
been  organized  and  what  we  are  doing, 
we  discover  that  there  is  immortality 
connected  with  us.  We  are  immortal  be- 
ings. That  which  dwells  in  this  body  of 
ours  is  immortal,  and  will  always  exist. 
Our  individuality  will  always  continue. 
Eternities  may  begin,  eternities  may 
end,  and  still  we  shall  have  our  individ- 
uality. Our  identity  is  insured.  We 
will  be  ourselves,  and  nobody  else. 
Whatever  changes  may  arise,  whatever 
worlds  may  be  made  or  pass  away,  our 
identity  will  always  remain  the  same; 
and  we  will  continue  on  improving,  ad- 
vancing and  increasing  in  wisdom,  in- 
telligence, power  and  dominion,  worlds 
without  end.  Our  present  advancement 
is  simply  a  starting  out,  as  it  were,  on 
this  path  of  immortality.  Whatever 
may  have  been  our  past,  how  long  we 
may  have  existed  before  this,  or  wheth- 
er there  ever  was  a  time  when  we  did 
not  exist,  there  is  one  thing  sure— our 
being  in  the  future  will  never  be  anni- 
hilated, never  destroyed.  When  we  look 
upon  the  beauties  of  the  world  many 
things  that  we  see  and  experience  are  of 
a  grand  and  glorious  nature;  they  fill 
us  with  reverence;  we  feel  and  realize 
their  grandeur;  and  the  idea  that  the 
time  will  ever  come  when  we  will  cease 
to  have  these  experiences  would  cer- 
tainly produce  a  feeling  of  sadness  in 
our  hearts.  But  there  is  no  such  thing 
a  s  our  passing  out  of  existence. 

I  feel  thankful  that  the  Lord  has  re- 
vealed unto  us  the  glorious  prospects 
which  are  before  us.  The  Savior  once 
compared  the  kingdom  of  God  to  a  man 
■who  found  a  rich  treasure  in  a  field,  and 
he  went  and  sold  all  that  he  possessed 
to  secure  that  treasure;  and  again,  like 
a  man  seeking  valuable  pearls,  and 
finding  one  of  immense  value  he  went 
and  sold  all  that  he  had  to  secure  that 
pearl. 


Now,  the  Lord  having  manifested  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints  this  principle  oj: 
immortality  and  continuance  of  ad- 
vancement, in  the  past  they  have  shown 
most  clearly  and  fully  that  they  have 
been  willing  to  sacrifice  whatever 
they  might  possess  and  to  go 
through  the  most  undesirable 
experiences  rather  than  turn  aside  from 
the  path  of  exaltation  and  glory  and 
give  up  the  hopes  God  had  inspired 
within  them.  Having  had  these  grand 
and  glorious  prospects,  which  no  lan- 
guage can  express, unfolded  to  our  view, 
we  ought  to  be  the  best,  the  most  vir- 
tuous and  the  most  self-sacrificing  peo- 
ple on  the  face  of  the  globe.  And  we 
certainly  are.  If  it  were  not  for  these 
hopes  which  the  Lord  Almighty  has 
inspired  us  with,  if  it  were  not  for  the 
revelations  of  the  Lord  Jesus  in  re- 
gard to  our  future,  we  would  be  the 
most  unhappy  people  in  the  world;  all 
our  past  sacrifices,  all  that  we  have  en- 
dured, would  go  as  for  nothing.  The 
Savior  might  well  compare  the  kingdom 
of  God  to  a  man  that  had  discovered 
something  for  which  he  was  willing  to 
make  great  sacrfice. 

We  are  in  the  world  for  a  purpose. 
We  are  not  here  accidentally.  We  came 
here  because  we  were  willing  to  come, 
and  because  it  was  the  wish  of  our 
Father  in  heaven  that  we  should  come. 

We  undoubtedly  saw  very  clearly 
that  there  was  no  other  way  for  us  to 
secure  what  the  Father  had  in  store  for 
us.  We  send  missionaries  among  the 
children  of  men.  When  appointed  they 
feel  strangely.  Their  feelings  are  not 
always  the  most  pleasurable,  either. 
There  are  things  about  a  mission 
which  are  not  altogether  agreeable  to 
our  young  Elders.  They  realize  that  they 
have  to  sacrifice  the  pleasures  of  home, 
and  they  understand  that  they  are  go- 
ing among  people  who  will  not  always 
feel  gratified  at  what  they  have  to  say 
to  them;  yet,  on  the  other  hand,  they 
feel  that  they  have  the  seeds  of  life  in 
their  possession.and  that  if  they  can 
find  an  honest  man  or  woman,  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  will  operate  upon 
their  hearts  and  they  will  perchance  re- 
ceive this  glorious  message  which  they 
have  to  deliver.  This  affords  them 
pleasure  and  satisfaction.  Another 
thing,   they  see  in   this  experience  a 


PRESIDENT  LORENZO  SNOW. 


6 


chance  for  them  to  secure  that  which 
will  be  of  great  value  to  them  in  their 
future  duties.  It  is  a  strange  thing 
that  among  the  thousands  of  letters 
which  I  have  received  from  those  who 
have  been  called  to  go  upon  missions 
— mostly  young  men — I  do  not  think  of 
but  one  case  where  a  refusal  was  given. 
Why  is  this?  It  is  because  the  spirit  of 
love  and  of  immortality,  the  Spirit  of 
the  Almighty,  is  upon  these  young  El- 
ders, and  they  have  received  manifes- 
tations which  inspire  them  to  do  that 
which  otherwise  no  inducement  could 
prompt  them  to  do. 

We  are  but  a  few  people  compared 
with  the  multitudes  that  dwell  upon  the 
face  of  the  earth;  and  our  system  of 
thought  is  not  believed  in  by  many. 
When  we  go  out  into  the  world  and 
testify  of  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  that 
the  fulness  of  the  Gospel  has  been  in- 
troduced for  the  purpose  of  saving 
mankind,  there  are  but  few  who  will 
receive  the  testimony.  It  has  always 
been  so,  strange  to  say.  In  the  days 
of  Noah  very  few  indeed  received  the 
truth  which  God  revealed.  In  the  days 
of  the  Son  of  God  very  few  would  re- 
ceive His  testimony.  In  these  days  very 
few  receive  the  testimony  that  God  has 
revealed  His  Gospel  and  has  required 
His  servants  to  declare  it  to  the  world. 
It  is  strange  indeed — and  yet  perhaps 
not  so  strange,  when  we  consider  the 
circumstances.  When  Jesus  lay  in  the 
manger,  a  helpless  infant.  He  knew 
not  that  He  was  the  Son  of  God,  and 
that  formerly  He  created  the  earth. 
When  the  edict  of  Herod  was  issued,  He 
knew  nothing  of  it;  He  had  not  power 
to  save  Himself;  and  His  father  and 
mother  had  to  take  Him  and  fly  into 
Egypt  to  preserve  Him  from  the  effects 
of  that  edict.  Well,  He  grew  up  to  man- 
hood, and  during  His  progress  it  was  re- 
vealed unto  Him  who  He  was,  and  for 
what  purpose  He  was  in  the  world.  The 
glory  and  power  He  possessed  before 
He  came  into  the  world  was  made 
known  unto  Him.  It  was  not  a  very 
pleasurable  thing  to  be  placed  upon  the 
cross  and  to  suffer  the  excruciating 
torture  that  He  bore  for  hours,  in  or- 
der to  accomplish  the  work  for  which 
He  had  come  upon  the  earth.  It  has 
not  been  with  the  Latter-day  Saints 
the  most  delightful  thing  that  could  be 


imagined  to  suffer  as  they  have  suf- 
fered— and  what  for?  For  the  same  as 
Jesus  suffered,  to  a  certain  extent — 
for  the  salvation  of  the  world.  And 
although  in  this  life  very  many  of  them 
may  not  receive  that  which  we  offer 
to  them,  the  day  will  come,  through 
the  progress  of  things  in  eternity,  when 
they  will  receive  it,  and  they  will  be 
thankful  that  we  came  into  the  world 
and  suffered  in  their  interests  as  we 
have. 

What  shall  we  say  about  these  mat- 
ters, brethren  and  sisters?  This:  Do 
not  falter;  continue  to  do  your  duty, 
whatever  it  may  be,  whether  pleasing 
or  displeasing;  be  the  servants  and 
handmaidens  of  God  to  the  very  ut- 
most. In  the  past  his  blessings  have 
been  upon  us  just  so  far  as  we  have 
served  Him  in  faithfulness;  they  will 
be  so  in  the  future.  There  is  no  occa- 
sion for  any  man  who  has  the  manifes- 
tation of  the  Lord  in  this  line  to  be 
discouraged.  When  our  surroundings 
are  not  so  agreeable  as  might  be 
wished,  think  how  much  worse  they 
might  be.  Be  contented  with  our  con- 
ditions. Improve  them  when  oppor- 
tunity arises,  but  do  not  worry  about 
them.  If  we  are  poor,  and  have  not  as 
much  as  our  neighbor  possesses,  do  not 
envy  him,  and  do  not  worry  about  it. 
As  I  said  in  the  beginning  of  my  re- 
marks, there  is  an  eternity  before  us, 
and  we  shall  always  be  ourselves,  and 
nobody  else,  and  what  we  do  not  gain 
today  we  will  gain  tomorrow,  or  some 
other  time.  The  antediluvians  rejected 
the  word  of  God;  but  they  were  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  God,  and  He  did 
not  reject  them,  only  for  a  time.  Af- 
ter twenty-five  hundred  years  had 
passed  away  the  Lord  revealed  himself 
to  them  again  and  gave  them  another 
opportunity.  Then  they  no  doubt  ac- 
cepted, generally  if  not  altogether, 
that  which  they  refused  in  the  days  of 
Noah.  The  people  of  this  generation 
may  not  receive  our  testimony  here, 
but  they  will  receive  it  at  some  future 
time,  from  us  or  from  some  other  ser- 
vants of  God. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  God  bless  you; 
and  I  say  to  you,  in  the  name  of  the 
Lord,  if  you  will  be  faithful  in  your 
prayers  and  in  the  exercise  of  your 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


faith,  this  will  be  as  other  conferences 
have  been,  the  very  best — better  than 
that  which  has  preceded  it;  and  we  will 
all  be  abundantly  blessed  and  filled 
with  the  Spirit  of  God,  our  faith  will  be 
increased,  and  we  will  be  better  pre- 
pared to  endure  what  the  Lord  shall  re- 
quire at  our  hands.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 

The  course  1 1  pursue  in  cases  of  sickness — Organ- 
ization and  ordinances  of  the  Church  being 
imitated— The  Gospel  to  be  carried  to  all 
lands. 

I  can  hardly  realize,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  it  is  nearly  one  year  since 
I  was  called  to  this  stand  and  my  name 
presented  to  the  congregation  to  be  sus- 
tained as  one  of  the  Apostles  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ.  I  desire  to  say  to 
you  this  day  that  1  have  enjoyed  my 
labors  among  the  people  of  this  Church 
for  the  last  twelve  months  as  I  never 
expected  to  do.  I  have  at  all  times 
asked  my  Heavenly  Father  to  give  me 
His  Spirit,  to  give  me  humility,  and 
to  favor  me  with  the  love,  confidence, 
respect  and  fellowship  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints;  and  I  thank  you  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  for  yqur  faith  and 
prayers  in  my  behalf,  and  I  thank  the 
Lord  for  all  He  has  vouchsafed  unto 
me.  I  begin  to  realize,  at  least  in  a 
small  degree,  \yhat  it  is  to  be  a  teacher 
among  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  the 
great  responsibilities  attached  there- 
to; and  I  feel  my  weakness,  aye,  more 
than  any  of  your  realize,  and  I  trust 
and  pray  that  the  Lord  will  give  me 
wisdom  and  judgment,  that  the  instruc- 
tion which  I  give  to  the  people  as  an 
Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  will  be 
approved  of  Him,  and  that  the  people 
will  receive  them  in  the  same  spirit  in 
which  they  are  given. 

I  know,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
this  is  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of  God. 
I  know  that  He  can  fit  and  qualify  men 
for  the  offices  to  which  He  calls  them. 
If  they  are  humble,  prayerful  and  dili- 
gent in  seeking  His  Spirit,  I  know  that 
God  will  magnify  them  in  their  office 
and  calling. 

There  is  a  tendency  exhibited  by 
some  of  the  brethren  and  sisters 
in  some  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion  to 
add     to     the     form     of    our  simple 


ordinances,  and  cast  about  them 
a  degree  of  mystery  and  to  depart  from 
the  method  laid  down  by  revelation 
from  God  through  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith;  and  I  think  it  proper  to  call  the 
attention  of  the  members  of  this  Church 
to  one  of  these  deviations. 

The  Apostle  James,  upon  one 
occasion,  asked  the  question,  "Is 
any  sick  among  you?"  and  his  advice 
to  the  Saints  then  was:  "Let  him  call 
for  the  Elders  of  the  Church;  and  let 
them  pray  over  him,  anointing  him 
with  oil  in  the  name  of  the  Lord;  and 
the  prayer  of  faith  shall  save  the  sick, 
and  the  Lord  shall  raise  him  up." 

This  doctrine  is  believed  in  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  one  of  the 
beautiful  ordinances  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  in  this  dispensation.  It  is 
one  whose  benefits  and  blessings  all 
the  people  enjoy  who  have  the  Spirit 
of  God.  And  there  is  no  need  to  deviate 
from  the  simple  form  of  administering 
to  the  sick  as  laid  down  by  the  Apostle 
James  and  by  the  Prophets  of  this  dis- 
pensation. There  is,  however,  a  ten- 
dency among  some  of  the  members  of 
the  Church  in  performing  this  ordinance 
to  add  to  the  form  and  mode  as  re- 
vealed, thinking  that  by  so  doing  great- 
er power  accompanies  the  administra- 
tion. But  I  want  to  call  your  attention 
to  the  fact  that  in  the  healing-  of  the 
sick  in  this  Church  the  power  comes 
■from  the  Lord,  and  not  from  man.  It  is 
by  the  prayer  of  faith  that  the  sick 
are  healed:  and,  as  I  look  at  it,  there  is 
no  need  of  having  this  simple  ordinance 
of  administering  to  the  sick  enshrouded 
in  mystery,  or  any  addition  whatever 
to  the  simple  form  given  by  the  Apostle 
James  or  revealed  to  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph Smith. 

Let  me  say  also  that  every  Latter-day 
Saint  has  a  perfect  right  to  ask  the 
Bishop  of  their  ward  to  present  the 
name  of  any  who  are  sick  to  the  fast 
meeting  which  is  held  each  month  in 
every  ward  in  the  Church,  where  the 
people  meet  together  in  fasting  and 
prayer.  I  believe  that  the  faith  and 
power  which  can  be  made  manifest  in 
those  meetings  in  behalf  of  the  sick 
will  be  acknowledged  by  God;  and  the 
people  have  a  right  to  ask  the  Bishop 
of  their  ward  to  have  a  sick  one  prayed 
for  in  any  fast  meeting. 


ELDER  REED  SMOOT. 


In  this  connection  I  may  say  that  we 
have  prayer  circles  in  this  Church. 
Every  Bishop  has  a  right  to  have  a 
prayer  circle  in  his  ward,  and  I  sin- 
cerely hope  that  there  is  no 
Stake  in  Zion  without  one, 
and  if  there  is,  my  advice  is  to  organize 
one  as  soon  as  possible.  There  is  not  a 
week  passes  but  these  circles  meet,  and 
they  are  composed  of  men  of  God,  who 
hold  the  Priesthood,  and  who  are  sup- 
posed to  be  clean  in  every  respect,  hav- 
ing a  knowledge  that  God  lives,  obeying 
all  His  commandments,  and  observing 
the  Word  of  Wisdom;  and  the  Saints 
should  have  the  privilege  of  having 
their  sick  remembered  in  these  circles. 
At  the  same  time,  I  believe  that  where 
the  humblest  servant  of  God  is  called 
upon  to  administer  to  one  who  is  sick 
in  this  Church,  if  he  have  faith,  and 
the  afflicted  one  also,  God  will  grant 
unto  them  the  righteous  desires  of  their 
hearts.  And  it  seems  to  me  that  there 
is  no  need  of  holding  special  fast  meet- 
ings, or  special  testimony  meetings,  or 
special  meetings  of  any  kind  in  the 
wards  or  Stakes  of  Zion,  in  connection 
with  or  making  them  a  part  of  the 
simple  ordinances  of  administering  to 
the  sick. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  the  time  will  come  when  every  or- 
dinance of  the  Gospel  will  be  imitated 
in  some  form  or  another  by  the  world, 
and  this  should  be  a  testimony  to  every 
soul  that  Mormonism  is  from  God..  If 
our  testimony  were  based  only  upon 
our  belief  in  administering  to  the  sick 
and  the  healing  of  the  sick  by  that 
means,  we  should  be  in  danger;  for 
since  that  ordinance  has  been  revealed 
to  this  Church  other  denominations 
have  arisen  believing  the  same  thing. 
There  is  now  a  denomination  in  exist- 
ence which  believes  in  the  administer- 
ing of  oil.  By  and  by  there  will  be 
other  denominations  formed  that  will, 
by  reading  the  Bible,  conclude  that 
there  should  be  Apostles  in  the  Church, 
and  they  will  have  men-made  Apostles. 
Only  a  few  days  ago  I  read  of  a  sect 
which  had  risen  up  in  the  East  claiming 
that  there  should  be  Apostles,  and  some 
of  the  members  had  appointed  them- 
selves as  Apostles  of  that  denomina- 
tion. I  think  that  sooner  or  later  the 
evil  one  will  try  to  imitate  everything 


in  the  Church  of  God.  I  sometimes 
think  I  can  see  into  the  future  and  see 
many  denominations  accepting  parts  of 
the  revealed  truth  and  trying  to  imitate 
perhaps  one  or  more  of  the  ordinances 
of  the  true  Church,  and  I  believe  the 
world  will  have  to  ultimately  acknowl- 
edge that  Mormonism,  as  they  call  it, 
is  exactly  the  same  as  the  Church  that 
Christ  placed  upon  the  earth,  and  that 
it  is  from  God. 

I  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed; 
I  believe  all  that  He  does  now  reveal; 
and  I  believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal 
many  great  and  important  things  per- 
taining to  the  Kingdom  of  God.  You, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  believe  the 
same.  Not  only  do  we  believe,  but  we 
know  that  the  blessings  of  God  come  to 
us  when  we  keep  the  commandments  of 
God.  In  visiting  the  Stakes  since  Bro- 
ther Heber  J.  Grant  was  called  to  open 
a  new  mission  in  Japan,  and  Brother 
Lyman  to  preside  over  the  European 
Mission,  I  have  had  some  of  the  breth- 
ren say  to  me,  "Why  I  thought  the 
time  had  come  when  the  Apostles 
would  be  kept  at  home,  and  not  sent 
abroad;"  and  they  expressed  them- 
selves as  not  knowing  how  they  could 
possibly  be  spared  from  here.  I  want 
to  say  to  the  people  that  if  the  voice 
of  the  Lord  calls  an  Apostle,  and  he 
is  wanted  in  any  part  of  this  world,  as 
soon  as  the  Prophet  of  the  Lord  men- 
tions the  fact  to  him,  there  is  not  an 
Apostle  in  this  Church  but  would  go  to 
the  farthest  ends  of  the  earth  upon 
a  mission — go  to  any  country,  or  any 
people,  and  sacrifice  if  necessary,  all 
that  he  has,  even  to  life  itself.  What 
more  can  men  do  for  the  Gospel's  sake. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hope  that 
such  a  feeling  of  respect  for  the  word 
of  God  and  of  confidence  in  His  all- 
ruling  power  will  be  instilled  into  the 
hearts  of  the  people  that  whenever 
the  time  comes  or  whatever  the  call 
may  be  from  the  servants  of  God,  you 
will  freely  say,  "Thy  will,  O  Father, 
not  mine,  be  done."  Brother  Heber  J. 
Grant  is  called  to  open  a  new  mission- 
open  the  door  of  the  great  Eastern 
country  and  introduce  the  Gospel  to  a 
new  people;  and  it  is  my  belief  that  it 
is  only  the  beginning;  for  as  sure  as  the 
Lord  has  spoken  the  word,  this  Gos- 
pel must  be  preached  to  all  peoples  on 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


th"e  earth.  It  rests  upon  this  people  to 
do  that  work  before  the  coming  of  the 
Son  of  Man,  and  I  take  it  that  when- 
ever the  call  comes  and  to  whomso- 
ever it  comes,  he  will  have 
sufficient  of  the  testimony  of  Jesus  in 
his  heart  to  respond  to  the  call  and  ful- 
fil the  mission  as  God  gives  him 
strength  and  judgment.  I  know  that 
our  prayers  have  been  with  Brother 
Grant  ever  since  it  has  been  known  that 
he  was  called.  I  know  that  the  Father 
has  been  supplicated  in  his  behalf,  that 
he  may  have  success  in  opening  that 
mission.  There  is  not  a  question  but 
that  he  goes  clothed  with  all  the  power, 
all  the  keys  and  all  the  authority  neces- 
sary to  introduce  the  Gospel  to  that 
people.  I  feel  that  he  will  have  success, 
even  as  much  as  God  shall  grant  he 
should  have. 

The  hearts  of  the  people  have  been 
drawn  out  also  for  Brother  George  Q. 
Cannon,  who  is  seriously  ill  at  the  pres- 
ent time  in  California.  We  hope,  we 
pray,  we  ask  our  Heavenly  Father  to 
restore  him  to  us;  but  if  he  lives  he 
lives  unto  the  Lord,  and  if  he  dies  he 
dies  unto  the  Lord.  Whether  he  lives  or 
whether  he  dies,  he  is  the  Lord's. 

It  seems  to  me  that  there  can  be  no 
people  upon  the  face  of  the  earth  who 
have  reason  to  be  more  thankful  to 
their  Heavenly  Father  for  the  blessings 
which  they  receive  than  the  Latter-day 
Saints;  for  I  do  not  believe  there  is  a 
people  living  who  have  more  blessings 
showered  upon  them.  I  want  to  bear 
testimony  also  to  what  President  Snow 
said,  that  there  is  not  a  people  living, 
in  my  opinion,  who  are  more  virtuous, 
self-sacrificing  and  more  the  lovers  of 
God  than  the  people  who  have  accepted 
the  name  of  Latter-day  Saints.  It 
rests  with  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
whether  or  not  we  shall  have  increased 
blessings.  The  Prophet  of  the  Lord  has 
promised  us  here  today  that  if  we  ara 
faithful  unto  God  glorious  blessings 
shall  be  given  unto  us  and  it  rests  with 
us  whether  or  not  we  shall  obtain  them. 

My  testimony  to  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  is  that  God  lives  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  that  this  is  the  Church 
and  Kingdom  of  God,  and  that  this 
people  will  not  falter,  but  whenever  the 
call  is  made  upon  them  they  will  answer 
that  call  to  the  best  of  the  ability  God 


has  given  them  and  with  all  the 
strength  and  means  they  are  endowed 
with.  May  God  bless  us  to  this  end; 
may  His  peace  be  upon  us  as  a  people; 
may  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  be  with  us 
during  this  Conference;  may  the  in- 
structions given  during  this  Conference 
be  carried  from  here  to  every  nook  and 
corner  of  the  Church;  may  He  bless  us 
with  a  testimony  that  this  is  His  work, 
and  increase  that  testimony  within  us 
every  day,  js  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  RUGDER  CLAWSON. 

Souls  precious  in  the  sight  of  God — That  which  is 
of  greatest  worth  to  a  seiva>  t  oi  the.  Lord— To 
save  othei  s  a  man  must  put  himself  in  the  way 
or  salvation — The  Gospel  to  goto  the  nations- 
Necessity  for  repentance. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  certainly 
a  very  inspiring  sight  to  see  so  many 
L;uter-day  Saints  assembled  this  morn- 
ing' from  all  parts  of  Zion  to  worship 
the  Lord  and  to  receive  His  word  as  it 
may  be  given  by  His  Spirit  through 
the  Elders  of  Israel.  I  greatly  rejoice 
jn  being  present,  and  I  appreciate  the 
opportunity  of  expressing  to  you  brief- 
ly some  of  my  views  and  feelings  in  re- 
gard to  this  great  latter-day  work.  I 
rejoice  in  the  testimony  of  President 
Snow,  in  the  strength  of  voice  which 
he  exhibited,  and  in  .  the  glorious 
views  he  presented  before  us.  I  have 
had  pleasure  also  in  the  testimony  of 
my  brother  who  preceded  me. 

A  few  words  were  spoken  in  relation 
to  mjia&ionary  work,  first  by  President 
Snow,  and  then  by  Brother  Smoot,  and 
their  remarks  wi!l  harmonize  with 
what  I  would  like  to  read  to  you  this 
morning  from  the  Book  of  Doctrine  and 
Covenants.  In  a  short  revelation  given 
to  John  Whitmer,  in  June,  1829.  the 
Lord  said  unto  him: 

"Hearken,  my  servant  John,  and  lis- 
ten tc  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ,  your 
Lord  and  jour  Redeemer, 

"For.  tehold,  I  speak  unto  you  with 
sharpness  and  with  power,  for  mine 
aim  is  over  all  the  earth, 

"And  I  will  tell  you  that  which  no 
man  knoweth  save  me  and  thee  alone; 

"For  many  times  you  have  desired  of 
me  to  know  that  which  would  be  of  the 
most  worth  unto  you. 

"Behold,  blessed  are  you  for  this 
thing,  and  for  speaking  my  words 
winch  I  have  given  you  according  to 
my  commandments. 

"And  now,  behold,.  I  say  unto  you. 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


that  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most 
worth  unto  you,  will  be  to  declare  re- 
pentance unto  this  people,  that  you 
may  bring  sou's  unto  me,  that  you 
may  rest  with  them  in  the  kindgom  of 
my  Father."— Section  15. 

In  another  revelation  given  shortly 
after,  these  words  occur: 

"And  now,  Oliver  Cowdery,  I  speak 
unto  you,  and  also  unto  David 
Whitmer,  by  the  way  of  command- 
ment; for,  behold,  I  command  all  men 
everywhere  to  repent,  and  I  speak  unto 
you,  even  as  unto  Paul  mine  Apostle, 
for  you  are  called  even  with  that  same 
calling  with  which  he  was  called. 

"Remember  the  worth  of  souls  is 
great  in  the  sight  of  God; 

"For,  behold,  the  Lord  your  Redeem- 
er, suffered  death  in  the  flesh;  where- 
fore He  suffered  the  pain  of  all  men, 
that  all  men  might  repent  and  come 
unto  Him. 

"And  He  hath  risen  again  from  the 
dead,  that  he  might  bring  all  men  unto 
him,  on  condition  of  repentance; 

"And  how  great  is  His  joy  in  the  soul 
that  repenteth. 

"Wherefore,  you  are  called  to  cry  re- 
pentance unto  this  people; 

"And  if  it  so  be  that  you  should  labor 
all  your  days  in  crying  repen  lance  un- 
to this  people,  and  bring,  save  it  be  one 
soul  unto  Me,  how  great  shall  be  your 
joy  with  him  in  the  kingdom  of  My 
Father! 

"And  now,  if  your  joy  will  be  great 
with  one  soul  that  you  have  brought 
unto  me  into  the  kingdom  of  my  Fath- 
er, how  great  will  be  your  joy  if  you 
should  bring  many  souls  unto  me!" — 
Sec.  xviii,  9-16. 

Again : 

"And  you  must  preach  unto  the 
world,  saying,  you  must  repent  and  be 
bantized.  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ; 

"For  all  men  must  repent  and  be  bap- 
tized, and  not  only  men,  but  women  and 
children  who  have  arrived  to  the  years 
of  accountability." — Sec.  xviii;  41-42. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  the  matters  that 
are  brought  to  our  attention  in  these 
words  of  revelation  are  most  glorious 
for  contemplation.  Cast  your  minds 
back  to  the  early  days  of  this  Church, 
and  there  stood  this  man  John  Whit- 
mer, recently  come  into  the  Church  of 
Christ.  Various  occupations  in  which 
he  might  engage  were  before  him.  He 
had  the  opportunity  to  labor  upon  the 
farm,  to  engage  in  merchandising,  to 
follow  mining,  to  study  the  profession 
of  medicine  or  law,  or  to  adopt  one  of 
the  many  other  occupations  in  which 
men  employ  themselves.  The  question 
he  asked  himself  at  that  time  was, 
What  would  be  of  the  most  worth  to 


him?  By  his  industry  and  thrift  he 
might  acquire  the  wealth  of  a 
Gould  or  a  Vanderbilt;  he  might 
obtain  a  beautiful  home,  well 
furnished  in  every  detail,  and  most  de- 
sirable for  the  comfort  and  convenience 
of  himself  and  family;  he  might 
obtain  worldly  renown  in  one  of  the 
professions,  and  by  study  and  reflection 
become  a  skillful  practitioner  in  medi- 
cine or  a  wise  and  able  laywer.  I  say, 
these  opportunities  were  before  him, 
because  the  country  was  before  him, 
and  this  country  is  full  of  opportuni- 
ties, which  are  within  the  reach  of  all. 
We  live  in  a  free  country,  and  the  way 
is  open  to  you  and  to  me,  as  it  was  to 
this  man.  He  stood  there  in  this  situ- 
ation, not  having  been  trained  long  in 
the  Gospel  of  Christ,  and  I  say  to  you— 
for  it  is  on  record  here — that  a  voice 
came  to  that  man  from  the  eternal 
worlds,  and  that  voice  set  at  rest  in 
him  every  doubt,  every  dubiety,  every 
fearful  anticipation.  At  a  critical 
time  in  his  life,  when  he  must  choose 
which  way  to  go,  that  voice  said  unto 
him  that  that  which  would  be  of  most 
worth  unto  him  was  to  declare  repent- 
ance unto  the  people  and  bring  souls 
unto  Christ.  The  message  was  of  such 
importance  that  it  came  to  him  with 
"sharpness  and  with  power."  It  was 
the  voice  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  was  a 
revelation,  given  in  this  day  and  gener- 
ation, when  it  is  supposed  by  the  peo- 
ple of  the  world  that  revelation  is  done 
away  with,  that  there  is  no  longer  com- 
munication between  the  heavens  and 
the  earth,  that  the  heavens  are  sealed 
as  brass.  The  voice  of  revelation 
comes  from  heaven  and  enters  into  the 
soul  of  this  man  and  declares  unto 
him  the  right  way.     Glorious  thought! 

And  how  are  we  to  determine  the 
value  of  souls?  This  matter  has  been 
determined  for  us  also  by  revelation. 
The  souls  of  men  are  so  precious  in  the 
sight  of  God  that  He  gave  to  the  world 
His  Only  Begotten  Son,  that  by  the 
shedding  of  His  blood  He  might  draw 
all  men  unto  Him.  That  is  why  the 
great  Prophet  of  this  dispensation, 
Joseph  Smith,  and  these  others.  John 
Whitmer,  Oliver  Cowdery,  David 
Whitmer,  and  the  rest,  were  called  to 
bring  souls  unto  Christ.  And  if  one  of 
these      men      should     labor    all  his 


8 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


days,  and  bring  save  it  be  but 
one  soul  unto  Christ,  and  that  one 
should  be  his  wife,  what  great  joy  he 
would  have  with  his  wife  in  heaven. 
Then  if  he  should  labor  all  his  days 
and  bring  unto  Christ  the  souls  of 
his  wife  and  his  children,  and  none 
else  perchance,  how  great  would  be  his 
joy  in  heaven  with  his  wife  and  child- 
ren. 

So  the  matter  is  clear  in  my  mind 
that  in  this  kingdom  a  man  must  first 
begin  at  home.  He  must  start  with 
himself.  He  must  place  himself  in  the 
way  of  salvation,  and  obtain  the  Priest- 
hood. Then  he  must  set  in  order  his 
own  household,  and  labor  for  the  sal- 
vation of  his  family.  He  must  not 
ignore  his  own  home,  and  forget  those 
who  are  near  and  dear  to  him.  A  man 
who  cannot  save  himself  through  the 
power  of  God;  a  man  who  cannot  save 
his  wife  and  children,  cannot  bring  to 
Christ  the  souls  of  men  in  the  world. 
I  rejoice  in  this  power  and  authority 
which  has  been  conferred  upon  man.  A 
man  must  have  it  before  he  can  go  out 
into  the  world  and  bring  souls  unto 
Christ.  It  is  with  the  Church.  The 
Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator  holds  the 
keys  of  this  authority,  and  from  him 
it  comes  to  the  Elders  of  Israel.  This 
great  missionary  work  that  is  to  be  ac- 
complished must  first  begin  at  home. 
It  must  be  found  in  the  families  of  the 
Saints,  and  in  the  quorums  of  the 
Priesthood.  Then  it  must  be  carried 
bv  the  Priesthood,  as  it  will  be  and  is 
being  carried,  to  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  It  is  now  being  carried  to  most 
of  the  countries  of  Europe,  and  will  be 
to  all  of  them,  and  it  is  about  to  be 
taken  to  the  great  nation  of  Japan;  for 
I  want  to  say  to  you  that  Japan  is 
getting  to  be  a  great  nation.  Its  peo- 
ple are  progressive,  and  no  doubt  the 
Gospel  will  find  a  foothold  in  that  land. 
But  I  am  impressed  with  the  thought, 
when  new  missions  are  to  be  opened 
up,  that  then  is  a  time  when  we  must 
feel  humble  before  God.  We  know  not 
what  is  in  store  for  this  Church  in  the 
Empire  of  Japan.  If  the  Gospel  is  to 
find  a  place  in  their  hearts,  and  they 
shall  give  heed  to  his  voice  of  revela- 
tion from  eternity,  then  the  angel  of 
God  must  go  before  our  brother,  who 


is  charged  with  this  responsibility,  and 
the  Lord  must  prepare  a  people  to  re- 
ceive the  word,  else  his  preaching  and 
ministry  in  that  land  will  be  unfruit- 
ful. Therefore,  as  we  look  upon  this 
question,  we  see  how  utterly  helpless  is 
the  man  who  relies  upon  his  own 
strength,  his  own  experience  and  learn- 
ing. This  is  the  work  of  God.  He 
goes  before  His  servants,  and  is  their 
rearward.  He  speaks  through  them  to 
the  world;  and  woe  unto  that  people, 
woe  unto  that  nation,  and  woe  unto 
that  family  that  rejects  the  testimony 
of  Jesus! 

Brethren  and  sisters,  in  speaking  up- 
on this  subject  we  have  taken  but  one 
view  of  it.  There  is  another  view,  and 
that  is,  that  no  soul  can  come  unto 
the  Father  and  be  accepted  of  Him,  ex- 
cept upon  the  principle  of  repentance. 
I  fancy  I  hear  some  of  the  Saints  say- 
ing, Yts,  the  principle  of  repentance  is 
very  good,  but  it  is  mostly  intended 
for  the  nations  of  the  earth  that  sit  in 
darkness  and  are  without  a  knowledge 
of  the  Gospel.  Yes,  take  this  princi- 
ple of  repentance  to  them.  Let  the  El- 
ders of  the  Church  declare  unto  them 
that  they  must  repent,  that  they  must 
forsake  their  sins,  and  turn  unto  the 
Lord  with  a  broken  heart  and  a  con- 
trite spirit,  and  He  will  bless  and  ex- 
alt them.  But  let  me  tell  you  brethren 
and  sisters,  that  we  must  not  stop  here. 
The  piinciple  of  repentance  is  not  only 
intended  for  the  world,  but  it  belongs 
to  ire  Latter-day  Saints.  It  is  a 
principle  that  should  come  into  our 
lives  and  be  before  us  continually. 
Have  we  not  need  of  repentance?  Cast 
your  eye  over  this  Church;  go  into  the 
wards  and  Stakes  of  the  Church;  visit 
among  this  people.  They  are  without 
doubt  the  best  people  upon  the  earth, 
but  go  among  them,  and  then  ask  your- 
selves if  this  people  have  not  need  of 
repentance.  We  have  need  of  it.  You 
n  ust  admit  it  when  you  learn  that  50 
per  cent  of  those  who  bear  th&  "Priest- 
hood of  God  fail  to  attend  their  quorum 
meetings.  One-half  of  the  bearers  of 
the  Priesthood  attend  to  this  duty,  and 
when  called  upon  will  arise  and  bear 
testimony;  but  the  other  half,  fail. 
Oh!  you  will  say,  perhaps,  that  is  not 
so  bad;  it  is  only  a  quorum  meeting 


ELDER  RUDGER  CLAWSON. 


9 


you  know;  they  meet  once  or  twice  a 
month,  and  the  time  between  meetings 
is  so  long  that  the  brethren  forget 
about  it.  But  I  wish  to  remind  you, 
brethren  and  sisters,  (for  the  sisters 
should  take  an  interest  in  this  matter 
with  their  husbands)  that  the  quorums 
of  the  Priesthood  have  been  established 
by  the  authority  of  God,  and  their 
times  and  seasons  and  bounds  have 
been  set.  The  duties  pertaining  to  the 
Priesthood  are  set  forth  in  the  Book  of 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  with  great 
force  and  clearness.  And  I  say,  if  the 
meetings  of  these  quorums  are  of  no 
consequence  in  the  church,  let  them  be 
done  away  with.  If  they  are  not  worth 
the  sacrifice  needed  in  coming  together 
for  an  hour  or  so  once  or  twice  a  month, 
let  us  dispense  with  them.  God  will  not 
be  mocked.  If  He  says  such  organiza- 
tions in  (he  Church  are  necessary,  if  He 
inspires  the  organization  of  a  quorum, 
then  we  must  give  heed  to  His  word. 
When  we  make  sacred  covenants  before 
the  Lord,  as  many  of  our  young  men 
do,  in  order  to  obtain  the  Priesthood, 
and  secure  blessings  through  the  Priest- 
hood, and  we  ignore  those  covenants,  I 
fear  the  disfavor  of  the  Lord  will  be 
upon  us,  and  He  will  hold  us  to  a 
strict  accountability.  I  believe  that 
there  is  need  for  the  application  of  this 
great  principle  of  repentance  to  the 
men  of  the  Priesthood.  Yet  we  have 
many  faithful  ones  among  us.  There 
are  various  associations  in  the  Church, 
all  instituted  by  the  authority  of  God 
for  the  benefit  and  blessing  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  this  same  condi- 
tion prevails  more  or  less  throughout  all 
of  them— about  fifty  per  cent,  respond, 
and  about  fifty  per  cent  do  not  respond. 

While  I  speak  thus  I  am  reminded  of 
the  parable  of  the  ten  virgins,  five  of 
whom  were  wise  and  five  foolish.  A 
time  came  when  the  five  foolish  virgins 
needed  some  oil,  and  needed  it  badly.  Oh, 
if  they  could  only  have  gone  to  the  store 
and  got  a  little  oil  for  their  lamps. 
But  there  was  not  sufficient  time.  The 
bridegroom  was  coming  suddenly,  and 
they  must  respond  at  once  to  the  call 
and  meet  him  with  oil  in  their  lamps. 
The  five  wise  were  ready,  the  Ave  fool- 
ish were  not  ready,  and  they  could  not 
go  in  to  the  marriage  supper  with  the 


bridegroom,  their  Lord  and  Master.  If 
the  Master  were  to  come  to  this  Church 
today,  there  would  be  five  wise  and  five 
foolish.  There  would  be  great  conster- 
nation among  the  people.  Men  of  the 
Priesthood  would  no  doubt  be  rushing 
about  looking  up  their  record,  going  to 
the  quorum  meetings  and  seeing  if  they 
did  not  have  sufficient  credit  on  the 
.books  to  go  and  meet  the  Master;  and 
the  clerk  would  have  to  say  to  them 
that  they  had  not  been  to  a  meeting  for 
two  years,  or  for  one  year,  or  for  six 
months,  as  the  case  might  be.  They 
could  not  be  given  any  credit;  and  if 
they  met  the  Master  at  all,  they  would 
have  to  meet  him  without  it.  Oh,  how 
sorrowful  it  would  be!  What  a  troub- 
led expression  would  be  seen  on  the 
countenances  of  such  men!  It  would 
be  the  same  with  the  sisters  and  others 
who  have  not  been  faithful  to  duty  in 
the  organizations  of  this  Church.  And 
it  is  the  same  in  other  directions. 

I  grant  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
there  has  been  a  marvelous  improve- 
ment in  the  payment  of  tithes.  A  won- 
derful step  in  advance  has  been  taken 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints  in  this  glori- 
ous principle,  which  has  come  to  us 
from  President  Snow  almost  as  a  new 
revelation.  A  special  word  of  warning 
it  was  to  these  Latter-day  Saints — 
these  ten  virgins.  The  word  came,  Do 
you  pay  your  tithing?  Have  you  oil 
in  your  lamps?  Do  you  observe  this 
law  which  will  sanctify  the  land  of 
Zion?  I  say  great  progress  has  been 
made  in  this;  and  yet  there  are  some 
foolish  virgins  among  the  people  with 
respect  to  the  law  of  tithing.  There 
are  many  who  come  short  of  paying 
what  Bishop  Preston  calls  a  tithing — 
ten  per  cent.  The  Lord  has  defined  the 
percentage  that  should  be  paid.  I 
am  not  preaching  to  you  any- 
thing that  men  have  devised.  No 
man  in  this  Church  instituted  the 
principle  of  tithing.  It  is  as  old 
as  the  Gospel.  It  was  had  in  the  days 
of  Abraham,  Isaac  and  Jacob.  It  was 
had  in  the  days  of  Solomon.  It  was 
had  in  the  days  of  Christ.  It  was  had 
upon  this  continent  in  the  days  of  the 
Nephites.  Yet  there  are  hundreds  of 
Latter-day  Saints  who  come  short  of 
observing  it.  Many  will  perhaps  pay  a 
tenth  of    a  tenth,  or  an  eighth    of  a 


10 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


tenth,  a  fifth  of  a  tenth,  a  sixth  of  a 
tenth,  or  a  seventh  of  a  tenth.  They 
fail  to  meet  the  requirement  fully. 
Where  shall  we  place  them?  What 
shall  we  say  of  the  man  who  is  highly 
blessed  of  the  Lord  in  temporal  mat- 
ters, who  has  been  multiplied  exceed- 
ingly in  his  substance,  and  whose  barns 
are  not  large  enough  to  hold  that  which 
the  Lord  has  blessed  him  with?  Is  he 
a  tithepayer?  Well,  he  thinks  he  is. 
How  much  does  he  pay?  Why,  he  pays 
one-half  of  one-tenth  per  cent.  Shall 
we  say  that  he  is  a  foolish  virgin?  I 
think  we  might  be  justified  in  taking 
that  view,  because  I  do  not  understand 
that  the  Lord  is  going  to  be  satisfied 
with  anything  short  of  the  full  observ- 
ance of  the  law.  If  the  Lord  intended 
that  it  should*  only  be  one-half  of  ten 
per  cent,  or  one-fourth  of  ten  per  cent, 
He  would  have  said  so.  When  we  fail 
to  meet  the  law  exactly,  then  I  appre- 
hend that  we  are  appropriating  to  our- 
selves something  that  belongs  to  the 
Lord,  and  I  do  not  know  what  right  I 
have  to  use  property  or  means  that 
belongs  to  Him.  I  have  no  way  of  bor- 
rowing from  Him  personally.  If  I  am 
going  to  use  any  part  of  the  ten  per 
cent,  I  must  go  to  His  Prophet  and  see 
whether  my  application  will  be  ac- 
ceptable to  the  Lord;  and  if  the 
Prophet  says,  No,  it  is  the  Lord's  means 
and  must  come  into  His  storehouse, 
then  I  have  no  choice  left.  But  you 
see,  brethren  and  sisters,  how,  because 
the  Lord  has  blessed  us  with  ability  to 
gather  means  and  we  have  it  in  our 
hands,  we  infringe  upon  His  rights  by 
taking  some  part  of  that  which  belongs 
to  him  and  using  it  for  our  own  pur- 
poses. 

I  speak  of  this  because,  while  there 
are  a  number  in  this  Church  who  do 
not  pay  any  tithing,  there  are  many 
who  make  an  effort  in  this  direction, 
and  who  perhaps  imagine  they  are  ac- 
complishing the  thing  required  because 
they  do  not  entirely  reject  the  law  of 
tithing.  They  pay  something,  they  get 
a  credit  on  the  books,  and  then  they 
say  to  themselves,  Soul,  sit  thou  here  in 
ease  and  be  satisfied.  Let  it  not  be  so 
with  us,  my  brethren  and  sisters.  Let 
no  man  who  has  the  privilege  of  paying 


tithing  be  satisfied  with  the  payment 
of  less  than  that  which  is  required.  If 
we  are  going  to  strive  for  a  blessing,  let 
us  be  sure  that  we  shall  obtain  it.  Let 
us  not  occupy  a  position  of  uncertainty, 
doing  something,  but  not  knowing 
whether  or  not  we  are  doing  sufficient 
to  secure  the  blessing. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  there  are  many 
other  things  that  need  to  be  repented  of 
by  the  people  of  God.  One  is  that  God 
will  be  sought  after,  and  we  do  not  seek 
after  Him  as  we  should.  We  neglect 
our  family  prayers;  we  neglect  our  se- 
cret prayers,  and  God  is  not  pleased 
with  it.  We  should  come  to  him  in 
mighty  faith,  ask  for  His  Spirit  and 
blessing,  and  acknowledge  His  hand  in 
our  behalf,  that  we  may  have  His 
Spirit  to  be  with  us  constantly.  Now 
that  I  am  about  to  sit  down,  I  do  not 
know  of  any  theme  in  the  Gospel  that 
opens  up  such  a  wide  field  for  contem- 
plation and  thought  as  this  great  and 
glorious  principle  of  repentance.  No 
man  on  the  earth  in  the  Church  or  out 
of  it,  and,  I  imagine,  no  man  in 
heaven,  can  come  unto  the  Lord  or  be 
received  into  His  favor,  except  upon 
the  principle  of  repentance — daily, 
hourly  repentance,  which  should  mean 
to  us  daily,  hourly  improvement, 
growth  and  progress.  God  bless  you. 
Amen. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn, 

"Hail  to  the  brightness  of  Zion's  glad 
morning, 

Joy  to  the  land  which  in  darkness  hath 
lain." 

Benediction  by  Patriarch  John  Smith. 

AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
2  p.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang; 

Redeemer  of  Israel, 

Our  only  delight, 

On  whom  for  a  blessing  we  call, 

Our  shadow  by  day, 

And  our  pillar  by  night, 

Our  King,  our  Deliverer,  our  all! 

Prayer  by  Elder  Brigham  H.  Roberts. 
The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  be- 
gins: 

Come,  dearest  Lord,  descend  and  dwell 
By  faith  and  love,  in  every  breast. 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


ELDER  A.  O.  WOODRUFF. 

Adv  ntages  of  fasting  and  bearing  teslimony  to  the 
truth—  Obedience  to  rightful  authority — Ne- 
cessity of  diligence  on  the  part  of  the  Priest- 
hood. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  blessed 
in  being-  numbered  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  am  happy  to  share  in  the 
blessings  which  the  Saints  enjoy.  I 
feel  extremely  weak  in  standing  be- 
fore you  here,  and  I  earnestly  pray  that 
the  Lord  may  sustain  me,  and  that  I 
may  enjoy  your  faith  and  good  will 
while  I  occupy  this  position.  I  feel  that 
the  Latter-day  Saints  today  have  more 
reason  to  be  encouraged  than  they  have 
ever  had.  The  Stakes  of  Zion  are  more 
numerous  and  stronger  today  than  they 
have  ever  been,  and  I  believe  that  the 
people  as  a  rule  are  living  their  religion 
a  little  better  than  they  have  done  here- 
tofore. In  traveling  among  the  Saints 
of  God  in  the  different  Stakes  of  Zion  I 
have  been  led  to  feel  that  there  is  as 
great  union  among  them  as  there  ever 
has  been,  and  that  the  outlook  for  the 
people  is  most  encouraging.  We  get  ex- 
cellent reports,  too,  from  the  Elders 
who  are  preaching  the  Gospel  in  the 
nations  of  the  earth.  I  doubt,  however, 
whether  we  fully  appreciate  many  of 
the  blessings  which  we  enjoy.  I  know 
that  some  of  the  Saints  do  not  appre- 
ciate all  the  privileges  within  their 
reach. 

The  Lord  has  placed  in  Zion  different 
institutions,  every  one  of  which  has 
some  end  to  accomplish.  As  every 
creature  which  the  Lord  has  placed  up- 
on the  earth  has  been  created  for  some 
purpose,  so  every  quorum  and  organiza- 
tion in  the  Church  has  been  created  for 
some  great  and  grand  purpose.  We  as 
a  people  have  the  privilege  of  fasting 
once  a  month,  and  donating  that  which 
we  otherwise  would  consume  for  the 
benefit  of  the  poor  and  the  needy  among 
us.  This  is  pretty  generally  observed  by 
the  Latter-day  Saints.  But  in  our  fast 
meetings  I  have  felt  sometimes  as 
though  we  did  not  always  appreciate 
the  blessings  that  we  enjoy.  I  have  at- 
tended fast  meetings  where  the  Bishops 
have  felt  very  ill  at  ease  on  account  of 
the  people  not  responding  to 
the  invitation  to  bear  their 
testimony.  There  seems  to  be 
too       much     backwardness     on  the 


part  of  the  Saints  in  taking  advantage 
of  this  blessing  when  it  is  placed  within 
their  reach;  and  some  of  those  who  do 
arise  to  testify  of  the  goodness  of  God 
are  looked  upon  as  putting  themselves* 
forward  a  little  too  much.  Jesus  said 
that  those  who  would  do  the  will  of  the 
Father  should  know  of  the  doctrine, 
and  according  to  my  view  there  is  not 
one  who  has  accepted  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  and  received  this  knowledge  but 
could  arise  to  his  feet  on  the  fast  day 
and  tell  of  some  intervention  of  Provi- 
dence in  his  behalf,  of  some  manifesta- 
tion of  the  gifts  of  the  Gospel,  or  of 
some  blessing  received  by  him  from 
the  Father.  I  feel  that  it  is  a  mistake 
for  us  to  go  to  fast  meetings,  and  al- 
low the  time  to  pass  without  utilizing 
it  in  the  manner  designated  of  the 
Lord;  and  I  know  that  in  failing  to  do 
our  duty  in  this  regard  we  are  not 
obedient  to  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit 
of  God.  The  Saints  should  heed  the 
promptings  of  the  spirit  at  all  times; 
for  if  they  do  not  the  voice  of  the  Spirit 
becomes  less  distinct  within  them  and 
they  do  not  experience  it  in  such  power 
as  it  comes  to  them  when  they  are  obe- 
dient to  its  teachings.  The  Apostles 
and  Elders  in  the  Church  of  Christ,  in 
this  day  as  in  former  days,  have  had  as 
their  especial  guide  the  whisperings  of 
the  "still  small  voice"  within  them. 
Why,  therefore,  should  we  not  be  obe- 
dient to  this  Spirit  when  it  prompts  us 
in  our  fast  meetings  to  bear  testimony 
of  the  goodness  of  God  to  us?  I  say, 
there  is  not  one  in  the  Church  who  can- 
not bear  testimony  to  the  presence  of 
the  gifts  of  the  Gospel  in  the  Church, 
or  to  having  received  some  of  the  bless- 
ings of  the  Gospel.  It  is  this  knowledge, 
which  is  so  general  throughout  the 
Church,  that  brings  about  the  union 
that  there  is  among  the  people  of  God. 
We  believe  in  revelation.  We  believe 
in  having  the  dictates  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  individually,  so  that  we  do  not  al- 
ways have  to  go  to  someone  else  to 
know  what  our  duty  is.  We  are  oft- 
times  prompted  by  the  Spirit  of  God  to 
do  many  good  things.  But  the  trouble 
is,  we  too  frequently  quench 
the  Spirit,  and  afterwards  we  feel 
condemned  on  account  of  our  disobedi- 
ence to  it.  In  this  way  we  drive 
the  Spirit  from  us,  and  do  not  enjoy 


12 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


it  in  that  degree  which  we  would  if 
we  would  always  be  obedient  unto  it. 

There  can  be  no  order  in  the  things 
of  God  or  the  things  of  man  unless 
there  is  obedience.  We  all  have  to  be 
obedient  to  someone.  It  is  necessary 
for  us  to  be  obedient  to  the  laws  and 
regulations  of  the  state  government  of 
which  we  form  a  part,  else  harmony 
cannct  exist  between  us  and  the  state. 
It  is  just  so  in  the  Church  of  Christ. 
We  must  be  obedient  to  the  leadership 
of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  the  man  whom 
God  hau  called  to  be  His  mouthpiece 
in  the  Church.  Had  it  not  been  for  the 
dictates  of  this  Spirit — this  personal 
revelation — how  many  are  there  in  the 
Church  today  who  would  have  been 
missed  by  the  Elders  in  their  searches 
abroad  for  the  honest  in  heart?  for 
many  Elders  have  bean  prompted  to 
enter  certain  houses,  where  they  have 
met  people  whose  hearts  were  prepared 
for  the  seed  of  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ.  I  feel  that  the  Lord  is  not 
pleased  with  the  Saints  when  they 
meet  together  in  fast  meeting  and  fail 
to  make  use  of  the  opportunity  which 
is  given  them  to  bear  testimony  to  the 
goodness  of  God.  This  is  not  done  for 
show.  We  fast  not  to  please  men.  We 
do  not  believe  in  that  kind  of  fasting 
which  some  people  indulge  in — going 
arcund  with  disfigured  faces,  and  look- 
ing sorrowful,  in  order  that  men  may 
know  we  are  fasting.  We  believe  that 
we  should  go  about  with  cheerful 
countenances,  and  rejoice  exceedingly 
before  the  Lord,  because  He  has  given 
us  the  privilege  of  abstaining  from 
food  one  day  in  a  month  and  contrib- 
uting of  our  substance  for  the  benefit 
of  our  fellows  who  are  less  fortunate. 
If  the  Latter-day  Saints  would  sense 
this  as  I  do,  our  fast  meetings  would 
be  exceedingly  interesting.  Not  that 
we  should  give  way  to  any  great  dem- 
onstration; that  is  not  the  proper 
thing;  but  we  should  enjoy  the  peaceful 
.nfluence  of  the  Spirit  of  God,  and  there 
should  never  be  one,  two  or  Ave  min- 
utes wasted  in  our  fast  meeings.  You, 
no  doubt,  have  all  experienced  a  dif- 
ference in  attending  fast  meetings. 
Sometimes  the  people  will  respond 
readily;  there  is  a  rich  outpouring  of 


the  Spirit  of  God;  our  faith  is  increased, 
and  we  feel  to  thank  the  Lord  for  the 
privilege  of  being  present.  At  other 
times  the  people  show  reluctance  in 
responding  and  telling  what  God  has 
done  for  them;  then  we  go  home  feel- 
ing that  we  have  not  taken  advantage 
of  our  opportunities  and  have  not  lis- 
tened to  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit. 
It  rests  with  the  people  to  make  these 
meetings  interesting.  The  measure  of 
the  Spirit  enjoyed  depends  more  or  less 
upon  the  faithfulness  of  the  people  in 
performing  their  duties,  in  paying  their 
fast  offerings,  and  in  preparing  their 
hearts.  The  Lord  has  given  this  day  to 
be  a  blessing  to  the  people,  wherein  we 
can  enjoy  His  Spirit  and  the  gifts  of 
the  Gospel.  The  people  of  God  do  en- 
joy the  gift  of  prophecv.  the  gift  of 
healing,  the  gift  of  tongues;  and  pro- 
bably the  latter  gift  has  been  taken 
advantage  of  by  the  evil  one  more  than 
any  other  gift  in  the  Church.  The 
Saints  should  be  guided  by  the  Spirit  of 
God,  and  subject  to  those  who  preside 
in  the  meetings.  If  the  Bishop,  who  is 
a  common  judge  in  Israel,  tells  a  per- 
son to  restrain  this  gift,  or  any  other 
gift,  it  is  the  duty  of  that  person  to  do 
it.  The  Bishop  has  a  right  to  the  gift 
of  discernment,  whereby  he  may  tell 
whether  these  spirits  are  of  God  or  not, 
and  if  they  are  not  they  should  not 
have  place  in  the  congregations  of  the 
Saints.  No  man  or  woman  has  a  right 
to  find  fault  with  the  Bishop  for  re- 
straining him  or  her  in  any  of  these 
matters.  The  Bishop  is  the  responsible 
party,  and  it  is  his  privilege  to  say 
what  shall  be  done  under  his  presi- 
dency. I  desired  to  make  these  remarks 
in  connection  with  our  observance  of 
the  fast  day. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  we  ought 
to  be  obedient  to  our  Bishops. 
We  are  amenable  to  them  in  the 
wards,  no  matter  what  priesthood  we 
hold.  We  owe  respect  to  them;  for 
any  man  who  has  not  enough  of 
the  Spirit  of  humility  to  be  governed  is 
not  fit  to  govern.  A  man  who  cannot 
be  led  is  not  fit  to  lead.  We  ought  to 
be  humble,  and  submissive  to  the  Spirit 
of  God.  We  exercise  our  free  agency 
as  to  whether  we  shall  be  members  of 
this  Church  or  not;  but  if  we  become 


ELDER  ABRAHAM  O.  WOODRUFF. 


13 


members  of  the  Church  we  must  be 
obedient  to  the  dictates  of  the  Spirit 
and  to  him  who  holds  the  keys  of  this 
dispensation  at  the  present  time.  It  is 
expected  that  we  will  sustain  him  and 
stand  by  him.  I  cannot  think  of  any- 
thing that  is  more  valuable  to  me  than 
to  enjoy  the  confidence  of  the  Prophet 
of  God.  I  prize  this  more  than  anything 
else  in  this  world.  To  me  it  is  the  rich- 
est blessing  that  men  and  women  can 
enjoy,  to  have  the  favor  of  God's  ser- 
vants who  are  called  to  preside  over  the 
Church  and  over  the  different  Stakes 
and  wards  in  the  Church.  There  is  an 
order  in  the  Church  of  Christ.  It  is  not 
possible  for  the  Presidency  and  the 
Apostles  to  go  into  every  ward  and  into 
every  house;  therefore  there  are  Stake 
and  ward  organizations.  Three  High 
Priests  are  called  to  preside  over  a 
Stake,  just  as  three  High  Priests  are 
called  of  God  to  preside  over  the  whole 
Church.  Then  we  have  a  High  Council 
in  the  Stake,  after  the  pattern  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles.  These  men  labor  in 
the  Stakes  and  wards,  and  they  ought 
to  be  respected  wherever  they  visit,  as 
the  Presidency  and  the  Apostles  are 
respected  in  the  different  Stakes  when 
they  visit  them.  They  are  the  leading 
men  of  the  stake,  and  they  are  respon- 
sible for  the  affairs  in  that  Stake.  If 
there  is  an  unsatisfactory  condition  ex- 
isting in  the  Stake,  we  do  not  first  go 
to  the  lay  members  to  enquire  concern- 
ing it,  but  we  go  to  the  men  who  bear 
the  responsibility,  and  demand  of  them 
to  know  why  there  is  an  unsatisfactory 
condition  there.  And  I  wish,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  that  every  Stake  Presi- 
dency and  High  Council  would  be  as 
zealous  and  as  faithful  in  trying  to  keep 
the  people  in  the  line  of  duty  as  the 
First  Presidency  and  Twelve  Apostles 
strive  to  be.  I  wish  they  would  be  as 
united,  and  sense  the  responsibility 
which  rests  upon  them  as  much 
as  these  men  do.  If  they  would  do 
this,  the  matter  of  the  payment  of  our 
tithes  would  not  be  a  reformation 
started  only  to  die  out  in  a  little  while, 
but  the  interest  would  be  kept  up  all 
the  time;  and  this  cannot  be  done  un- 
less the  Presidents  and  High  Councils 
of  the  different  Stakes  sense  the  respon- 


sibility which  rests  upon  them.  This 
is  not  a  spasmodic  movement.  It  was 
not  begun  to  last  one  or  two  years.  It 
was  intended  to  last  for  all  time;  and 
that  after  the  labor  was  begun  by  the 
Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  Apos- 
tles, every  Stake  presidency,  every 
High  Council  and  every  Bishorpic 
throughout  the  Church  would  continue 
the  work  and  labor  as  long  as  there  was, 
one  non-tithepayer  left  in  the  Church. 
Have  they  done  this?  If  they  have, 
then  there  are  not  many  non-tithe- 
payers  in  the  Church  today.  But  I  fear 
that  some  of  the  brethren  have  thought 
that  this  was  a  temporary  movement: 
that  it  was  needed  just  at  that  par- 
ticular time,  but  that  after  the  one 
effort  had  been  made  there  was  no 
need  of  carrying  it  on.  There  is  still, 
I  am  storry  to  say,  a  great  list  of  non- 
tithepayers  in  the  Church;  and  it  is 
evident  in  some  instances  that  the 
presidency  of  the  Stake  and  the  High 
Council  and  the  Bishoprics  have  not 
labored  quite  as  hard  as  they  might 
have  done.  We  could  not  expect  that 
they  would  convert  all  these  non-tithe- 
payers  in  one  year,  or  two  years,  or  three 
years;  but  more  of  them  might  have 
been  converted  if  every  man  in  the 
Church  who  is  a  tithepayer  sensed  the 
responsibility  of  this  as  keenly  as 
President  Snow  does.  I  feel  that  this 
is  a  matter  that  ought  to  receive  the 
at'enticn  of  Stake  and  ward  officers, 
and  they  ought  to  realize  that  our 
Eternal  Father  will  hold  them  respon- 
sible for  the  use  of  the^r  influence  and 
talents,  just  as  much  in  their  positions 
as  He  will  the  President  of  the  Church 
in  his  position.  President  Snow  be- 
lieves, his  counselors  believe,  and  these 
Apostles  believe  that  it  is  possible  for 
these  Stake  and  ward  officers  to  con- 
vert the  big  majority  of  the  non-tithe- 
payers,  as  well  as  those  who  are  negli- 
gent in  other  respects.  We  believe 
that  most  of  the  people  prize  their 
standing  in  the  Church  sufficiently  to 
induce  them  to  repent  and  do  better, 
provided  they  are  labored  with  and 
their  condition  placed  before  them  in 
its  true  light.  The  trouble  has  been 
in  some  cases,  that  officers  have  not 
regarded  this  as  an  important  move- 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


ment,  or  that  it  was  not  essential  to 
continue  it;  and,  of  course,  wherever 
this  spirit  is  manifested  by  a  Bishop  or 
a  Stake  officer,  what  can  be  expected 
of  the  people?  We  expect  that  every 
officer  in  this  Church  will  set  a  good  ex- 
ample, and  say  to  the  people,  Follow 
me;  that  he  will  not  require  anything 
of  his  people  that  he  is  not  willing  to 
do  himself.  We  expect  this  to  be  the 
case  in  every  organization  of  the 
Church,  among  the  sisters  as  well  as 
the  brethren. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  rejoice  in 
the  work  in  which  we  are  engaged.  I 
thank  God  that  I  am  permitted  to  live 
in  this  day  and  time, and  to  do  my  small 
and  humble  part  in  connection  with  the 
upbuilding  of  His  kingdom.  I  rejoice 
that  my  labor  becomes  sweeter  and 
dearer  to  me  every  day  that  I  live. 
Instead  of  it  becoming  burdensome,  it 
becomes  more  of  a  joy  and  satisfaction. 
I  thank  God  for  His  Priesthood.  I 
honor  it,  and  I  honor  my  brethren  with 
whom  I  am  connected  in  this  Priest- 
hood. I  pray  for  God's  blessings  upon 
the  people,  that  they  may  be  filled  with 
His  Spirit.  I  pray  that  we  may  be 
faithful  all  the  day  long;  that  we  may 
not  simply  run  well  for  a  time,  but  that 
we  may  labor  continually,  until  we 
shall  have  brought  about  a  greater  de- 
gree of  perfection  in  ourselves  and  the 
Church  of  God  than  exists  today.  Those 
who  are  trying  to  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God  and  are  measurably  suc- 
cessful, let  them  labor  with  their  fel- 
lows until  there  shall  not  be  a  non- 
tithepayer  left  in  the  Church — at  least, 
until  there  is  a  much  more  satisfactory 
condition  that  there  is  today.  Let  us 
do  our  part,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
to  bring  joy  to  the  heart  of  God's 
Prophet,  in  having  his  desires  accom- 
plished and  seeing  the  people  respond 
as  he  would  have  them  to  this  and  other 
commandments  which  the  Lord  has 
given.  May  God's  peace  and  blessings 
be  upon  His  people.  May  He  bless  us 
in  all  our  undertakings  and  labors,  and 
may  we  go  forth  from  this  Conference 
with  renewed  determination  to  do  His 
will  and  to  serve  Him  all  our  days.  May 
God  help  us  all  to  be  faithful  to  the 
end.  I  ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 

I  nprovements  in  financial  afiairs  of  the  Church — 
Organization  of  new  Stakes  of  Zion — Neces- 
sary official  changes  in  uhe  Pri>  sttiood—  Dif- 
ferences among  brethren  should  be  avoided — 
President  of  the  Church  and  other  authorities 
should  be  sustained. 

My  brethren  and  sisters:  I  suppose 
that  I  need  not  ask  for  your  faith  and 
prayers.  I  always  need  them,  and  I 
understand  it  to  be  our  duty  to  con- 
sider ourselves  responsible  as  well  as 
the  speaker  for  the  measure  of  the  Holy 
Spirit  that  we  enjoy.  It  is  our  duty 
also  to  pay  the  strictest  attention  to  all 
that  is  said,  and  to  be  imbued  with  a 
determination  to  carry  out  the  instruc- 
tions which  are  given  unto  us. 

The  Latter-day  Saints  are  under- 
stood to  be  a  practical  people.  Paul 
said  concerning  the  former-day  Saints 
that  the  Lord  would  "purify  unto  him- 
self a  peculiar  people,  zealous  of  good 
works."  I  read  in  the  newspaper  re- 
cently a  statement  made  by  a  man 
holding  a  legislative  office,  to  the  effect 
that  he  desired  to  see  the  wiping  out  of 
the  peculiarity  which  characterized  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  say,  God  grant 
that  it  never  shall  be  wiped  out,  that 
the  Spirit  of  the  Gospel  shall  never  de- 
part from  us,  that  the  principles  which 
that  Spirit  has  implanted  in  our  hearts 
shall  never  be  obliterated,  and  that  we 
shall  never  cease  to  teach  our  children 
and  our  children's  children  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  the  living  God, 
that  every  principle  which  God  revealed 
to  him  was  divine,  and  that  he  laid  his 
life  upon  the  altar  to  establish  the  truth 
of  those  principles  which  he  enunciated 
to  the  world.  I  hope  that  this  peculiar- 
ity will  always  attach  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  and  that  it  will  become  more 
distinct  and  pronounced  as  the  years 
roll  by.  As  the  work  of  God  progresses 
we  ought  to  progress. 

It  has  been  now  two  years  and  a  half 
since  we  first  sustained  President  Lo- 
renzo Snow  as  the  successor  of  Presi- 
dent Wilford  Woodruff,  as  the  Prophet, 
Seer  and  Revelator  unto  this  Church. 
I  want  to  bear  my  testimony  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints  that  the  work  of  God 
has  always  prospered,  and  that  it  has 
prospered  most  remarkably  during  the 
last  two  years  and  a  half.  Through 
a    combination    of  circumstances  that 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


15 


possibly  could  not  be  avoided,  and  that, 
have  been  met  by  the  servants  of  God 
to  the  very  best  of  their  ability,  the 
Church  has  been  involved  financially ; 
but  under  the  direction  of  the  Spirit  of 
God  in  President  Snow  this  financial 
obligation  has  been  greatly  reduced. 
The  hand  of  the  Lord  has  been  mani- 
fest in  his  administration  to  a  remark- 
able extent.  He  has  blessed  the  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  with  the  spirit  to  re- 
spond to  the  call  that  was  made  by 
President  Snow  some  two  years  ago  for 
the  people  to  come  to  a  higher  standard 
in  the  observance  of  the  law  of  tithing. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  quite  generally 
have  responded  to  this  call,  and  God 
has  blessed  them  for  so  doing.  The  spir- 
it of  this  principle  has  been  more  gener- 
ally disseminated  among  the  Saints  than 
it  ever  has  been.  The  presiding  Coun- 
cil of  Seventies  have  done  a  remarkably 
good  work  in  presenting  this  subject  to 
the  quorums  of  Seventies  throughout 
the  Stakes  of  Zion.  The  Seventies 
constitute  one  of  the  most  substantial, 
energetic  and  faithful  bodies  of  men  ex- 
isting in  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  the  preaching 
and  labors  of  this  Council  are  to  be 
commended.  Their  visits  to  the  Stake 
conferences  are  but  a  small  part  of 
their  work.  They  are  constantly  con- 
sidering the  obligation  and  responsi- 
bility that  God  has  placed  upon  the 
Seventies  of  this  Church,  namely,  to  be 
messengers  of  God  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth;  and  they  are  all  the  time 
seeking  to  more  thoroughly  effect  the 
organization  of  these  quorums  and  to 
indoctrinate  them  in  the  principles  of 
the  everlasting  Gospel.  I  believe  that 
the  authorities  of  the  Church  generally 
have  sought  to  perform  the  duties  of 
their  calling.  We  have,  however,  our 
w(  aknesses,  and  we  do  not  feel  superior 
to  our  brethren  who  occupy  different 
stations  throughout  the  Stakes 
of  Zion.  The  Presidency  of  this  Church, 
the  Twelve  Apostles,  the  First  Seven 
Presidents  of  Seventies,  the  Presid 
ing  Bishorpic,  the  Patriarch — I  want 
to  testify  that  they  are  humble 
men;  that  they  desire  to  know  and  un- 
derstand the  will  of  God  in  the  per- 
formance of  their  duty;  and  that, 
though  we  entertain  individual  views 


in  regard  to  various  matters,  we 
generally  come  to  a  unity  of  faith  in 
regard  to  all  propositions  which  effect 
the  work  of  God  here  upon  the  earth. 

Another  thing  I  will  say,  as  it  occurs 
to  my  mind.  During  the  last  two  years 
and  a  half  there  has  been  an  increase 
in  the  Stakes  of  Zion,  possibly  a  greater 
increase  proportionately  in  the  number 
of  the  Stakes  than  in  the  population. 
This  has  been  an  essential  step,  because 
many  of  the  Stakes  of  Zion  were  so 
large  that  the  Presidency  of  the  Stakes 
could  not  possibly  give  that  personal 
administration  which  the  people  need- 
ed. God  moved  upon  His  servant  to 
divide  these  Stakes,  and  it  has  resulted 
in  calling  into  activity  a  great  body  of 
men  and  women,  some  of  whom  were 
previously  comparatively  inactive,  and 
they  have  manifested  a  marked  degree 
of  interest  and  energy  in  the  work  of 
God.  We  still  have  other  Stakes  of 
Zion  to  organize;  for  they  are  extending 
to  the  east  and  the  west,  to  the  north 
and  the  south;  and  after  a  while  we  will 
organize  Zion,  as  it  is  called,  and  the 
Stakes  of  Zion,  as  it  extends  from  the 
Atlantic  to  the  Pacific. 

But  there  is  great  need,  in  all  the 
Stakes  of  Zion,  of  a  reformation  in  the 
activity  of  those  who  bear  the  responsi- 
bility of  the  bishopric,  and  other  lead- 
ing officers  in  the  Priesthood.  Some 
brethren  have  been  very  neglectful  of 
their  duties.  Others  have  manifested 
an  incapacity  to  perform  the  duties  of 
their  respective  offices  in  the  holy 
Priesthood.  It  is  necessary  that  this 
should  be  rectified.  It  is  not  necessary, 
in  order  to  obtain  salvation  in  the 
kingdom  of  God,  that  a  man 
should  preside  over  a  ward  as 
a  Bishop.  When  he  becomes,  through 
age,  sickness  or  any  other  cause, 
unable  to  perform  the  duties  of  that 
high  calling,  it  is  no  discredit  for  him 
to  resign  and  give  place  to  another 
man;  in  fact,  it  is  a  credit  to  him,  and 
he  ought  to  do  it.  The  same  may  be 
said  of  the  President  of  a  Stake. 
Why,  President  Lorenzo  Snow  and 
President  Franklin  D.  Richards — two  of 
the  humblest  and  most  energetic  men  in 
the  Church— on  one  occasion  went  to 
President  Brigham  Young  and  told  him 
that  if  he  considered  that  they  were  in- 


16 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


efficient,  incapable  or  inactive  in  their 
Apostleship,  they  were  willing  to  step 
aside  and  let  their  Apostleship  be  con- 
ferred upon  other  men.  So  great  was 
their  humility  and  their  love  for  the 
work  of  God  that  they  offered  to  do 
this.  In  this,  my  brethren,  there  is  a 
great  principle.  Every  man  and  woman 
should  esteem  the  work  of  God  first  and 
foremost.  I  have  always  had  a  joy  in 
my  heart  that  this  was  the  work  of 
the  Lord.  Though  I  have  felt  my  own 
inefficiency  to  a  marked  extent,  I  have 
always  had  the  feeling,  This  is  the  work 
of  God,  and  whether  I  stand  or  fall, 
whether  I  am  worthy  to  maintain  the 
responsibility  that  I  bear  or  not,  the 
work  of  God  will  be  maintained  just 
the  same.  The  work  of  God  is  not  de- 
pendent upon  us  as  individuals.  It  is 
His  work,  and  He  will  maintain  it. 

There  is  another  thing  I  want  to  say 
to  my  brethren  in  connection  with  our 
labors  and  associations  in  the  Priest- 
hood. We  all  have  our  individuality 
and  our  peculiar  characteristics.  It  is 
perfectly  right  that  it  should  be  so;  for 
God  so  designed  it.  He  organized  this 
earth,  and  He  did  it  in  such  a  way  as 
to  give  variety.  He  placed  thereon 
the  mountains,  the  valleys,  the  lakes, 
the  rivers,  the  seas,  the  vegetation  and 
all  the  rest  to  beautify  it  and  make  it 
suitable  for  the  abode  of  man.  The 
Latter-day  Saints  have  come  from  al- 
most all  the  civilized  nations  under 
the  sun,  and  after  awhile  Japan  nd  oth- 
er parts  of  the  Orient  will 
yield  forth  Latter-day  Saints; 
for  God  "will  say  to  the  north, 
give  up;  and  to  the  south,  keep  not 
back:  bring  my  sons  from  far,  and  my 
daughters  from  the  ends  of  the  earth." 
They  will  come,  and  I  say,  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  that  no  power  under  the 
sun  can  hinder  it.  No  power  can  re- 
tard the  work  of  God.  It  is  the  duty 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  understand 
this  work,  and  to  esteem  the  Spirit  of 
the  Gospel  as  the  best  associate  that 
we  can  have. 

Now  I  want  to  say  that  the  brethren 
do  not  always  dwell  together  in  peace. 
David  said,  "Behold,  how  good  and 
how  pleasant  it  is  for  brethren  to  dwell 
together  in  Unity!  It  is  like,  the  pre- 
cious ointment  upon  the  head,  that  ran 


down  upon  the  beard,  even  Aaron's 
beard."  I  know  that  some  Bishoprics 
do  not  labor  as  unitedly  as  they  ought 
to  do;  and  the  reason  is  because  they 
do  not  enjoy  the  spirit  of  their  calling 
to  the  extent  that  they  should,  and 
that  is  the  result  of  their  not  getting 
together  and  holding  council  meetings. 
They  do  not  bring  themselves  in  sub- 
jection to  the  will  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  as  a  consequence  there  is  differ- 
ence among  them.  Now,  when  the 
presiding  authorities  of  a  ward  or  a 
Stake  are  disunited  and  they  do  not 
enjoy  the  Spirit  of  God  in  their  call- 
ing, it  will  effect  the  entire  ward  or 
Stake.  The  result  is,  in  some  Stakes  of 
Zion,  we  need  a  change  and  a  reforma- 
tion, to  bring  about  a  condition  that  is 
more  in  harmony  with  the  progress  of 
the  work  of  God.  In  meeting  the  re- 
sponsibility of  the  Priesthood  that  we 
bear  we  should  not  allow  our  personal 
objections  to  our  brethren  to  inter- 
fere with  our  relationship  to  them  in 
the  offices  and  labars  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood. I  remember  Brother  Clawson 
stated  here  last  conference  that  he  had 
found  one  brother  who  did  not  pay  his 
tithing  because  he  had  some  per- 
sonal antipathy  to  the  Bishop.  Another 
man  did  not  pay  his  tithing  because  he 
had  a  personal  objection  to  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Stake.  I  want  to  say  to 
you,  my  brethren,  that  this  is  all  wrong. 
We  are  the  servants  of  God.  If  God 
has  entrusted  a  man  with  the  responsi- 
bilities of  the  Priesthood,  and  that 
man  from  his  boyhood  up  has  honored 
that  Priesthood,  has  been  ready  to  go 
on  missions  abroad,  willing  to  submit 
to  the  counsel  of  the  Priesthood  on  all 
subjects,  and  on  hand  to  perform  the 
will  of  God  in  every  direction,  I  say  to 
you  that  notwithstanding  the  weak- 
nesses of  such  a  man,  he  is  a  servant  of 
God,  whom  God  has  honored,  and  there 
ought  not  to  be  anybody  in  his  ward 
or  in  his  Stake  who  would  entertain 
such  antipathy  to  him  as  to  cause,  him 
to  refrain  from  performing  the  duties 
of  his  calling.  At  the  same  time  every 
Bishop  and  every  Stake  President  ought 
to  put  his  arms  around  the  people  and 
make  them  feel  that  he  is  indeed  their 
father.  He  should  not  rule  with  a  rod 
of  iron,  nor  with  the  determination  to 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


17 


llways  have  his  own  way;  but  he 
should  rule  in  the  spirit  of  love  and 
kindness  for  his  brethren. 

I  believe,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  there  are  but  few  men  and  women 
In  this  Church  who  cannot  be  saved 
and  kept  from  departing  from  the  per- 
formance of  their  duty,  if  they  are 
properly  taught  and  a  spirit  of  love  is 
manifested  for  them  by  the  shepherds 
of  the  flock  of  Christ;  but  where  there 
is  disunion  and  difference  of  opinion, 
and  where  wrong  influences  have  as- 
serted themselves  through  financial  or 
political  affairs,  the  effects  are  injuri- 
ous. If  we  do  not  belong  to  the  same 
political  party,  or  if  perchance  we  may 
engage  in  a  competitive  business  finan- 
cially, we  ought  not  to  let  that  divide 
us  in  spirit  or  place  us  at  variance  with 
our  brethren.  We  cannot  afford  to  do 
this,  because  men  at  times,  though  they 
may  feel  they  have  been  wronged,  if 
they  are  not  careful  they  will  be  wrong 
themselves  by  fighting  against  their 
brethren  who  bear  the  Priesthood  of 
the  Son  of  God  and  who  are  appointed 
to  preside  as  Bishops  or  Presidents,  or 
as  general  authorities.  I  am  reminded 
in  this  connection  of  a  statement 
made  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith. 
As  you  know,  in  the  early 
history  of  the  Church  they  had 
a  great  many  difficulties.  At  one 
time  they  sought  to  establish  Zion, 
In  Jackson  county.  Oliver  Cowdery 
and  W.  W.  Phelps  were  placed  in 
charge,  I  believe.  The  Lord  revealed 
unto  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  the 
principle  of  the  United  Order,  and  He 
thowed  him  how  to  establish  this  prin- 
ciple. But  there  was  jealousy  and  envy 
Hmong  the  brethren;  there  was  a  dis- 
position to  find  fault  one  with  another. 
The  result  was  that  the  enemy  came 
upon  them  and  drove  them  from  their 
inheritances;  and  the  Lord  uttered  a 
flecree  that  but  few  of  those,  if  any, 
tvho  were- driven  out  should  live  to  re- 
turn. I  do  not  know  of  scarcely  any 
that  are  alive  today  of  those  who  oc- 
cupied Jackson  county  when  that  reve- 
lation was  given.  The  Lord  revealed  to 
them  how  they  should  live.  He  said  it 
was  not  pleasing  to  Him  that  one  man 
should  possess  that  which  was  above 
another.  He  declared  that  the  earth 
was  full  of  His  bounties,  and  He  de- 
signed  that  all   should  have  enough. 


He  asked  them  to  consecrate  all  that 
they  had  to  the  establishment  and 
beautifying  of  Zion,  and  that  every 
man  and  woman  should  be  made  re- 
sponsible for  the  stewardship  whicbi 
their  gifts  and  capacities  fitted  them 
for.  They  should  have  all  that  they 
needed  to  eat,  to  wear,  to  house  them- 
selves, and  to  educate  and  bring  up 
their  children  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord; 
but  all  the  surplus  should  be  conse- 
crated for  the  redemption  of  Zion.  This 
was  the  principle  revealed  at  that  time, 
and  we  shall  yet  have  to  come  to  that. 
In  this  connection  the  Lord  said  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith; 

"Behold,  thus  saith  the  Lord  your 
God  unto  you,  O  ye  Elders  of  My  Church 
hearken  ye  and  hear,  and  receive  My 
will  concerning  you; 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  I  will 
that  ye  should  overcome  the  world; 
wherefore  I  will  have  compassion  upon 
you." 

Let  me  say  that  this  revelation  and 
voice  of  warning  is  unto  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  today, -and  it  is  our  duty  to 
overcome  the  world.  There  is  a 
constant  effort  being  made  to  des- 
troy our  young  people  by  the  in- 
fluences and  powers  of  darkness, 
and  we  should  set  our  faces  as 
flint  against  it.  I  want  to  raise  my 
voice  to  the  young  people  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints  and  ask  them  to  at- 
tend their  Sunday  schools  and  their  Im- 
provement associations.  I  want  to  en- 
courage them  to  attend  to  their  Dray- 
ers  night  and  morning.  I  want  to  en- 
courage them  to  go  on  missions,  both 
young  men  and  young  women,  when 
the  Lord  shall  so  indicate,  and  lift  up> 
their  voices  in  defense  of  the  work  of: 
God.  If  they  will  do  this  and  be  obedi- 
ent to  the  counsel  of  the  holy  Priest- 
hood, they  will  never  turn  aside  from 
the  work  of  God.  Young  people,  guard 
your  virtue;  esteem  it  as  dearer  than 
the  blood  which  flows  in  your  veins; 
for  God  has  placed  a  premium  upora 
honor  and  chastity,  and  he  or  she  who 
loses  that  gem  loses  something  thai 
cannot  be  restored  in  this  life,  if  It  caa 
in  the  life  to  come. 

The  revelation  continues: 

"There  are  those  amonsr  you  wlu 
have  sinned." 

That  is  true  today.  There  are  thosi 
among  us  who  have  sinned.  There  ara 


18 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


those  among  us  who  have  sat  in  coun- 
cil with  the  ungodly,  and  who  have 
sought  to  overturn  the  counsel  of  the 
holy  Priesthood,  and  who  have  set 
themselves  up  as  superior  in  judgment 
and  wisdom  to  those  who  hear  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God.  In  this 
they  have  sinned.  Woe  unto  them  that 
seek  deep  to  hide  their  counsel  from  the 
Lord,  and  their  works  are  in  the  dark! 
Wherefore,  repent,  and  do  so  no  more. 

"But  verily  I  say,  for  this  once,  for 
mine  own  glory,  and  for  the  salvation 
of  souls,  I  have  forgiven  you  your  sins. 

"I  will  be  merciful  unto  you.  for  I 
have  given  unto  you  the  kingdom: 

"And  the  keys  of  the  mysteries  of 
the  kingdom  shall  not  be  taken  from 
my  servant  Joseph  Smith.  Jr..  through 
the  means  I  have  appointed,  while  he 
liveth,  inasmuch  as  he  obeyeth  mine 
ordinances. 

"There  are  those  who  have  sought 
occasion  against  him  without  cause." 

My  brethren,  there  are  those  who 
have  sought  occasion  against  the 
servants  of  God  without  cause. 
They  have  sought  occasion  against 
the  man  who  has  stood  at  the  head  of 
the  Church,  and  whom  God  has  said  we 
should  look  upon  as  His  representative 
upon  the  earth.  He  said  concerning  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  "Ye  shall  re- 
ceive his  words  as  if  from  mine  own 
mouth;"  and  the  same  authority  and 
power  to  lead  the  Church  was  conferred 
upon  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young, 
and  was  extended  to  President  John 
Taylor,  and  to  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, and  now  rests  upon  President  Lor- 
enzo Snow,  who  holds  the  keys  of  the 
-work  of  God  at  the  present  time.  There 
are  those  who  have  sought  occasion 
against  him  without  cause.  Now,  it  is 
not  only  the  man  who  stands  at  the 
head,  and  his  counselors,  and  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  the  presiding  Council 
of  Seventies  and  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
-who  bear  this  great '  responsibility  of 
representing  God,  but  every  man  who 
Tjears  the  holy  Priesthood  is  a  repre- 
sentative of  God;  and  in  his  sphere 
and  calling  it  is  understood  that  he 
■shall  have  the  mind  and  will  of  God  to 
administer  unto  the  people.  The  Bishop 
of  a  ward,  the  President  of  a  Stake, 
the  presiding  Elder  of  a  quorum,  or  a 
presiding  council  of  Seventies,  may  en- 
joy the  revelations  of  the  Holy  Ghost 
to  guide  them  in  the  duties  of  their 


office.  It  is,  therefore,  not  only  our 
duty  to  avoid  sinning  against  our  breth- 
ren who  bear  the  Apostleship,  but  it  is 
our  duty  to  be  exceedingly  kind  and 
charitable  to  and  assist  in  upholding 
and  sustaining  every  officer  in  the 
Church,  whether  he  be  the  Bishop  of 
a  ward,  the  President  of  a  Stake,  or  the 
holder  of  any  other  position  in  the 
Priesthood.  We  have  no  right  to  tear 
down  his  influence  among  the  people 
of  God.  And  we  are  not  injured  by  re- 
fraining from  it;  for  there  is  no  man, 
from  the  head  of  the  Church  down  to 
the  last  ordained  Deacon,  who  will  have 
power  to  lead  the  people  of  God  astray 
or  to  work  any  permanent  injury  to  the 
cause  of  Christ.  There  is  authority 
and  power  in  the  Church  to  bring  every 
man  to  justice  in  the  due  time  of  the 
Lord,  and  it  is  not  our  business  to  find 
fault  and  to  tear  down.  The  Lord  is  no 
respecter  of  persons,  and  when  His 
Prophet  sinned  He  told  him  of 
it,      according     to     this  revelation. 

"Nevertheless  he  has  sinned,  but 
verily  I  say  unto  you,  I,  the  Lord,  for- 
give sins  unto  those  who  confess  their 
sins  before  me  and  ask  forgiveness, 
who  have  not  sinned  unto  death. 

"My  disciples,  in  days  of  old,  sought 
occasion  against  one  another,  and  for- 
gave not  one  another  in  their  hearts, 
and  for  this  evil  they  were  afflicted, 
and  sorely  chastened; 

"Wherefore  I  say  unto  you,  that  ye 
ought  to  forgive  one  another,  for  he 
that  forgiveth  not  his  brother  his  tres- 
passes, standeth  condemned  before  the 
Lord,  for  there  remaineth  in  him  the 
greater  sin. 

"I,  the  Lord,  will  forgive  whom  I  will 
forgive,  but  of  you  it  is  required  to 
forgive  all  men." 

No  Latter-day  Saint  has  any  right 
or  title  to  the  fellowship  of  the  Spirit 
of  God  if  he  entertains  an  acrimoni- 
ous spirit  against  any  living  man  or 
woman.  God  has  sacrificed  for  our  sal- 
vation. How  often  has  President  Snow 
told  us  that  He  required  men  to  make 
sacrifices  for  the  benefit  of  the  whole 
people.  He  sacrificed  His  own  beloved 
Son,  that  we  might  have  redemption 
from  the  bonds  of  death,  and  also  from 
our  individual  sins.  He  suffered  His 
Son  to  die  a  most  ignominious  death, 
that  the  resurrection  might  be  brought 
to  pass.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  was 
raised  up  in  this  dispensation  to  stand 
at  the  head  thereof,  and  he  suffered 
all  kinds  of  ignominy  and  scorn  at  the 


ELDER  MATTHIAS  F.  COWLEY. 


19 


hands  of  men  outside  the  Church,  and 
treachery  and  perfidy  at  the  hands  of 
apostates  inside  the  Church;  and  final- 
ly, commensurate  with  the  importance 
of  the  great  message  which  he  bore,  he 
gave    the  last    evidence    that  can  be 
given  by  man  upon  earth  to  establish  the 
divine  authenticity  of  any  principle- 
he  gave  his  life.   His  blood  was  shed  in 
Carthage  jail.  He  was  an  innocent  man, 
free  from  sin;  for  God  had  forgiven  his 
little  trespasses  and  imperfections.  He 
was  a  man  of  God,  a  pure,  upright  man; 
a  man  that  not  only  honored  God,  but 
he  loved  his  fellow  man  and  honored 
the  nation  that  gave  him  birth.  He  laid 
it    down    by    the    revelations    of  the 
Holy      Spirit      that      God  founded 
this   government  by  inspiration,  which 
rested     upon    the    patriotic  fathers, 
who  gave  their  blood  to  establish  lib- 
erty upon  this  land.    Such    was  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.   But  he  was  not 
a  perfect  being;  he  i(a.s  not  free  from 
weakness;  neither  are  we.    I  was  go- 
ing to  say,  I  thank  God  that  my  breth- 
ren are  not;  for  if  they  were  free  from 
imperfections  I  would  not  be  with  them. 
They  say  misery  likes  company,  and  I 
am  glad  they  have  imperfections;  for  I 
feel  at  times  as  though  I  was  exceed- 
ingly imperfect.   When  I  see  the  stand- 
ard of  righteousness  that  belongs  to 
the  Gospel  of  the  Son  of  God,  I  feel 
so  immeasurably  below  it  that  I  feel 
almost  unworthy  to  be  a  member  of  the 
Church,   to  say  nothing  of  being  an 
Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  It 
scarcely  ever  enters  my  head  that  I  am 
one,  only  I  remember  that  I  have  been 
ordained,  and  I  am  constantly  stirred 
up  with  a  feeling  that  I  must  do  my 
duty,  I  must  declare  this  Gospel,  or  I 
will  be  damned;  but  the  thought  of  be- 
ing superior  to  any  Elder,  or  Seventy, 
or  Priest,   Teacher,  or     Deacon,  has 
never  entered  my  heart;  nor  do  I  be- 
lieve it  enters  the  hearts  of  my  breth- 
ren who  bear  the  Apostleship,  for  they 
are    humble  men.      They  have  not 
chosen  themselves;   God    has  chosen 
them     by   the     voice   of  inspiration 
through  the  Prophet  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  the  Church. 

Remember,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
these  few  verses  that  I  have  read  from 
Section  64  of  the  Doctrine  and  Coven- 
ants.   There  is  also  another  statement 


in  it  in  connection  with  the  authorities 
of  the  Church,  and  it  will  not  only  ap- 
ply to  a  Bishop  or  to  the  presiding  au- 
thority of  any  Stake  in  Zion,  but  also 
to  the  Apostleship  and  to  every  man 
who  bears  responsibility  in  the  holy 
Priesthood.    It  says: 

"And  even  the  Bishop  who  is  a 
judge,  and  his  counselors,  if  they  are 
not  faithful  in  their  stewardships,  shall 
be  condemned,  and  others  shall  be 
planted  in  their  stead; 

"For,  behold,  I  say  unto  you  that 
Zion  shall  flourish,  and  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  shall  be  <upon  her, 

"And  she  shall  be  an  ensign  unto  the 
people,  and  there  shall  come  unto  her 
out  of  every  nation  under  heaven. 

"And  the  day  shall  come  when  the 
nations  of  the  earth  shall  tremble  be- 
cause of  her,  and  shall  fear  because  of 
her  terrible  ones.  The  Lord  hath 
spoken  it.  Amen." 

Now  I  want  to  say  a  word  in  regard 
to  the  people  of  the  world  adopting  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel,  alluded  to  this 
morning  by  Elder  Reed  Smoot.    I  be- 
lieve I  sat  upon  the  stump  of  a  tree  in 
the  State  of  "Virginia  and  read  a  pro- 
phecy by  President  Joseph  P.  Smith 
that  the  day  would  come  when  the  min- 
isters of  sectarianism  would  teach  the 
doctrines  of  this  Church,  and  it  would 
be  a  strong  delusion  among  the  people. 
The  sects  of  the  day,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  have  a  greater  knowledge  re- 
specting the  strength  and  force  of  this 
work  than  they  admit  to  the  people. 
They  keep  the  people  of  the  world  in 
the  dark  in  regard  to  the  truth,  and 
they  are  afraid  to  open  their  doors  and 
let  the  people  come  in  and  hear  the 
truth  enunciated  by  the  servants  of 
God.    I  recently  visited  every  State  in 
the  Eastern  States  mission.  President 
E.  H.  Snow  took  great  pains  to  see  that 
I  had  the  opportunity  of  bearing  my 
testimony  in  every  State  of  his  Mission, 
In  a  prominent  little  city  of  one  State 
the  Elders  circulated  handbills  from 
house  to  house,  and  after  it  was  done, 
the   sectarian    ministers   visited  from 
house  to  house  and  gathered  up  the 
handbills,  and  asked  the  people  not  to 
go  and  hear  us..    I  want  to  say  that  I 
am  not  afraid  to  hear  the  representa- 
tives of  any  denomination  on  earth,  nor 
to  give  them  the  opportunity  of  pre- 
senting their  views.    But  the  adversary 
is  at  work.  He  has  understood  the  work 
of  God  from  the  beginning.  He  sought 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  destroy  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  in 
the  very  outset.  He  sought  to  destroy 
the  Son  of  God  when  He  was  on  earth; 
and  when  he  could  not  do  that  he 
Bought  to  tempt  Him,,  promising  Him 
that  if  He  would  worship  him  he  would 
give  Him  all  the  kingdoms  of  this 
world.  He  also  sought  to  tempt  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  use  the 
Book  of  Mormon  for  financial  gain;  but 
God  had  given  him  commandment 
that  he  should  not  make  merchandise 
of  sacred  things,  and  he  did  not  yield  to 
the  tempter.  When  the  ministers  found 
that  they  could  not  overturn  the  work 
by  their  arguments,  they  incited  the 
people  to  resort  to  mobocracy.  The 
Baints  were  hounded  from  place  to  place, 
Apostle  David  Patten  and  others  were 
slaughtered;  and  finally  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  brother  Hyrum 
were  cruelly  assassinated  in  Carthage 
jail,  sealing  their  testimony  with  their 
blood,  and  the  Saints  of  God  were  driv- 
en to  these  mountain  valleys.  And  now 
they  have  come  to  realize  that  it  is 
useless  to  try  to  mob  the  work  out  of 
existence,  and  they  cannot  overturn  it 
by  fair  and  open  combat  from  the  Bible, 
so  they  are  adopting  the  method  of 
teaching  the  doctrines  that  we  teach. 
Now,  I  want  to  say  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  there  is  no  need  of  going 
outside  of  this  Church  for  the  healing 
of  your  sick  by  Christian  Science  or  by 
any  other  institution  in  the  land  which 
seeks  to  counterfeit  the  power  of  God. 
that  there  are  good  people  among  them 
all  is  true;  but  their  doctrines  are  not 
of  God.  God  has  revealed  this  work. 
He  has  given  us  a  testimony  of  the 
truth,  and  He  expects  that  we  will  use 
the  authority  of  the  Priesthood  and  the 
faith  He  has  planted  in  our  beings  to 
heal  the  sick  and  to  accomplish  the 
work  which  He  has  assigned  unto  us, 
s,nd  that  we  will  not  fellowship  these 
Dther  institutions  by  giving  them  our 
patronage.  It  is  contrary  to  the  mind 
and  will  of  the  Lord  that  we  should  do 
>o. 

In  conclusion,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, I  want  to  bear  my  testimony.  I 
feel  well  in  the  work  of  God.  I  love 
President  Lorenzo  Snow;  I  love  his 
counselors,  President  Cannon  and  Presi- 
dent Smith.  I  ask  God  to  heal  Presi- 
dent Cannon  and  return  him  home  in 


safety.  I  ask  the  Latter-day  Saints 
to  pray  for  him  with  the  intensity  of 
their  souls,  and  pray  for  others  who 
are  afflicted.  I  love  my  brethren  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles,  and  our  most  vener- 
able brother,  President  Brigham  Young, 
who  has  spent  his  life  in  the  ministry, 
and  who  has  been  on  hand  for  the  work 
of  God,  whether  to  preach  the  Gospel 
or  to  shoulder  his  musket  in  defense  of 
the  people  against  the  Indians,  as  had 
to  be  done  in  the  early  history  of  the 
Territory.  I  love  the  Seventies,  the 
Bishopric,  the  Patriarch,  and  all  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  I  am  glad  to  ex- 
press this  love  and  fellowship  for  you. 
I  pray  for  you  night  and  morning,  and 
I  ask  you  to  remember  me  in  your  faith 
and  prayers.  God  will  vindicate  this 
work,  and  we  must  have  faith  in  it.  Out 
of  Israel,  says  Isaiah,  I  will  gather  Is- 
rael. It  is  not  everyone  that  will  stand 
and  be  faithful;  As  Elder  Clawson  said 
this  morning,  of  the  ten  virgins  five 
were  wise  and  five  were  foolish.  Let  us 
try  and  not  be  numbered  among  the 
foolish  ones.  Let  every  Bishop,  when 
he  returns  home,  endeavor  to  straight- 
en up  his  ward;  let  every' President  of  a 
Stake  do  likewise  with  his  Stake;  and 
let  every  man,  woman  and  child  infuse 
the  spirit  of  this  conference  into  their 
families,  that  the  power  of  God  may 
be  among  the  people,  and  that  we  may 
not  be  as  trifling  children,  quarreling 
over  fences,  or  over  politics,  or  thosa 
things  that  canker  the  heart  and  de- 
stroy the  fellowship  of  the  brethren  and 
sisters  one  for  the  other.  Do  not  for- 
get that  this  is  the  work  of  God,  and 
not  of  man.  God  bless  you.  In  the  E.am« 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 

Humility,  union  and  and  true  greatness. 

I  am  happy  to  see  so  many  of  the 
Saints  present  on  the  first  day  of  oui 
Conference,  and  I  have  rejoiced  in  the 
instructions  given  by  the  brethren  wlM 
have  addressed  us.  I  was  much  Im- 
pressed with  the  remarks  of  the  last 
speaker.  He  bore  testimony  that  th« 
leading  brethren  In  the  Church  ari 
humble  men.  The  Apostles  have  jus! 
concluded  their  quarterly  conference, 
and  one  of  the  subjects  dwelt  upon 
was  this  principle  of  humility.     It  was 


ELDER  ANTHON  H.  LUND. 


21 


shown  that  it  is  absolutely  necessaiT 
to  cultivate  humility,  if  we  shall  make 
progress  in  the  kingdom  of  God.  J 
can  also  bear  testimony  to  the  fact  that 
the  Twelve  Apostles  are  one,  and  seek 
to  be  one  with  the  Presidency  of  the 
Church.  When  Brother  Cowley  read 
the  words  of  the  revelation  in  which 
we  are  told  that  the  disciples  of  old 
had  feelings  against  one  another,  I  felt 
to  rejoice  that  it  could  be  said  of  the 
Twelve  today  that  they  are  a  unit;  and 
it  is  desirable  that  this  oneness  of  feel- 
ing should  pervade  all  Israel.  We  know 
that  it  is  required  of  us  to  be  one.  If 
we  are  not  one,  Jesus  will  not  acknowl- 
edge us.  In  one  of  the  revelations  He 
makes  this  statement: 

"But,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  teach 
one  another  according  to  the  office 
wherewith  I  have  appointed  you, 

"And  let  every  man  esteem  his  broth- 
er as  himself,  and  practice  virtue  and 
holiness  before  me. 

"And  again  I  say  unto  you,  let 
every  man  esteem  his  brother  as  him- 
self; 

"For  what  man  among  you  having 
twelve  sons,  and  is  no  respecter  of 
them,  and  they  serve  him  obediently, 
and  he  saith  unto  the  one,  be  thou 
clothed  in  robes  and  sit  thou  here; 
and  to  the  other,  be  thou  clothed  in 
rags,  and  sit  thou  here,  and  looketh 
upon  his  sons  and  saith  I  am  just. 

"Behold,  this  I  have  given  unto  you 
a  parable,  and  it  is  even  as  I  am:  I 
say  unto  you,  be  one;  and  if  you  are  not 
one,  ye  are  not  mine." — Doc.  and  Cov., 
Sec.  38:  23—27. 

This  requirement  is  made,  not  only 
of  the  Twelve,  but  of  all  the  Saints. 
If  we  shall  be  recognized  and  acknowl- 
edged by  our  Master,  we  must 
prove  unto  Him  that  we  are  one— 
not  only  one  in  our  belief, 
but  one  in  our  acts,  and  one  in  our 
conduct  and  in  the  treatment  of  one 
another.  We  have  heard  it  read  that 
one  should  not  have  above  another. 
The  Lord  has  always  laid  stress  upon 
unity.  In  the  last  teachings  of  our 
Savior  to  His  disciples,  -  during  the 
week  before  He  left  them,  how  impres- 
sive are  His  words  upon  this  princi- 
ple! He  wanted  them  to  be  one.  as 
He  and  the  Father  were  one;  and  He 
asked  in  His  prayer  that  this  might 
be.  Unity  is  the  distinguishing  charac- 
teristic of  Saints  in  every  age.  As  Lat- 
ter-day Saints,  we  want  to  try  to  be 


united  with  one  another  and  with  th« 
Presidency.  Let  us  carry  out  the  coun. 
sels  that  come  to  us  through  them,  and 
let  us  not  feel  one  above  another. 

If  one  man  shall  acquire  more  of  thia 
world's  goods  than  another,  let  it  not 
lift  him  up  and  make  him  feel  that 
that  makes  him  better  than  his  brother. 
Remember  that  the  Lord  withstands 
the  proud;  and  purse-pride  I  think  is 
meaner  than  any  other  pride.  Yet  it  is 
natural  to  us.  There  should  not  arise 
class  distinctions  among  the  Latter-das 
Saints.  I  do  not  believe  there  is  much 
of  this;  but  at  certain  times  there 
seems  to  be  a  little  more  of  it  in  our 
midst  than  there  ought  to  be.  The 
other  day  I  had  the  pleasure  of  attend- 
ing a  reception  given  our  President  on 
his  birthday  by  the  workers  in  the 
Temple.  I  was  pleased  to  be  present 
and  feel  the  spirit  there.  In  talking 
with  one  of  our  Bishops,  I  remarked 
how  pleasant  it  was  to  see  those  who 
had  not  any  of  this  world's  goods  min- 
gling with  those  who  had,  as  brethren 
and  sisters,  and  he  said,  "I  have  heard 
some  say  that  we  have  class  distinc- 
tions in  our  midst,  and  men  who  have 
riches  are  accused  of  feeling  above 
their  brethren;  but  I  have  never  fell 
anything  of  that  kind."  Now,  that  man 
has  plenty  of  this  world's  goods,  but  he 
did  not  feel  that  wealth  exalted  him 
above  his  brethren.  I  believe  that  as  a 
general  thing  the  possession  of  wealth 
has  a  tendency  to  lift  men  up.  If  the 
Lord  blesses  us  with  temporal  riches, 
they  should  not  have  this  effect  upon 
us.  It  may  not  be  the  fault  al- 
together of  those  who  have 
means  that  there  sometimes  arise 
lines  of  distinction  between  them  and 
their  poorer  brethren.  We  who  have  not 
much  of  this  world's  goods  are  not  en- 
tirely free  from  pride;  if  for  instance, 
our  brother  with  whom  we  have  been 
well  acquainted,  and  who  has  acquired 
more  means  than  we  have,  happens  to 
pass  us  without  noticing  us,  though  he 
does  it  unthinkingly,  we  are  apt  to 
judge  him  harshly  and  say  to  ourselves 
that  because  he  has  a  little  more  means 
than  we  have  he  will  not  notice  us  now. 
He  may  be  entirely  innocent,  yet  we 
nurture  this  feeling,  and  we  become 
estranged    from    one     another.  Thia 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


should  not  be.  We  should  love  one  an- 
other, and  be  one.  You  do  not  see  any 
class  distinction  between  those  who  la- 
bor in  the  Temples.  The  Temple  is  a 
place  where  the  atmosphere  is  entirely 
free  from  a  feeling  of  one  being  above 
another.  When  our  missionaries  go  out 
to  preach  the  Gospel,  sometimes  a 
young  man  of  rich  parents  will  be  as- 
sociated with  the  son  of  poor  parents, 
but  they  do  not  feel  that  there  is  any 
distinction  between  them.  They  go  out 
tracting  and  holding  meetings  together, 
they  pray  together,  and  live  together  as 
brethren.  The  difference  between  them 
in  worldly  means  is  forgotten,  and  they 
try  to  be  united  on  the  work  they  have 
in  hand.  Now,  as  the  missionaries  feel 
abroad,  as  you  feel  when  you  go  into 
the  Temples  of  God,  so  you  should  feel 
in  your  everyday  lives. 

Let  us  not  forget  the  injunctions  given 
to  us  in  regard  to  humility.     Do  not 
think     that     humility    is    opposed  to 
greatness.     On  the  pontrary,  no  man 
ever  became  great  who  was  not  humble.- 
In  the  history  of  the  world,  we  have 
called  men  great,  who  did  not  deserve 
the  title.    For  a  man  to  be  great  there 
must  be  originality  about  him;  he  must 
be  above  the  common,  and  the  differ- 
ence   between   him    and  the  common 
must  be  something  that  is  beneficial  to 
men.    It  is  the  benefit  that  flows  from 
his  personality  that  makes  him  great— 
his    influence  on    the  world    for  good. 
Take  our  Savior,  as  was  alluded  to  so 
beautifully  this  morning  by  our  Presi- 
dent.   Born  at  Bethlehem,  in  a  manger! 
He   went  below  all  things,  both  in  rank 
and  wealth.  He  did  not  seek  for  wealth. 
He  had  come  to  fulfil  a  mission.  He 
was  humble  in  all  his  acts,  and  yet  He 
was  the  greatest  being  that  has  lived 
upon  the  earth.  Humility  and  greatness 
were  combined  in  His  character.  The 
same  was  reflected  in  the  character  of 
our  Prophet,  Joseph  Smith.    He  was  a 
man  without  cant,  a  humble  man,  a 
great  man.    Of  all  men  that  lived  in  the 
nineteenth  century  I  look  upon  him  as 
the  greatest.    There  was  something  be- 
yond the  common  in  this  man,  which 
will  have  a  beneficial    influence  upon 
the  whole  mass    of    humanity.  The 
truths  which  he  brought  forth  by  the 
power  of  God  will  be  studied  by  men 


and  their  worth  recognized.  Men  will 
not  credit  the  source,  but  the  truth  will 
win  its  way.  He  was  a  great  man,  and 
at  the  same  time  a  humble  man.  His 
successors  have  been  the  same.  If  we 
want  to  attain  greatness,  we  must  not 
forget  this  virtue  of  humility.  Perhaps 
many  of  those  who  feel  so  self-righ- 
teous will  find  that  to  cultivate  humil- 
ity is  a  hard  task;  still  it  is  necessary. 
We  look  forward  to  exaltation,  but  to 
obtain  this  we  must  go  through  the 
valley  of  humility.  We  must  go  down 
into  it,  and  then  ascend,  and  before  us 
is  a  destiny  so  bright  that  we  cannot 
conceive  it. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  cultivate 
these  virtues.  Let  us  be  one.  Let  us 
not  regard  one  another  on  account  of 
wealth  and  rank;  but  let  us  esteem 
men  for  the  good  works  they  do,  and 
for  their  humility  in  living  before  the 
Lord.  Let  this  be  the  rank  which  we 
all  shall  seek  for.  The  Twelve  received 
the  call  of  the  Lord,  not  feeling  elated 
because  they  were  to  receive  a  higher 
seat  in  the  synagogue,  but  with  fear 
and  trembling,  hoping  that  they  might 
be  able  to  perform  their  duties.  In  re- 
ceiving the  call  they  felt  that  it  made 
them  indeed  the  servants  of  their  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  they  are  trying  to 
live  so  that  they  can  serve  them,  and 
serve  their  Heavenly  Father. 

I  do  not  feel  to  take  up  more  of  your 
time,  only  I  would  like  to  impress  upon 
all,  the  necessity  of  unity;  with  that  we 
shall  be  strong  and  able  to  fight  the 
battles  that  are  before  us,  and  we  shall 
come  out  victorious.  My  testimony  is 
that  this  is  the  kingdom  of  God — the 
stone  that  Daniel  saw.  Now,  if  we 
are  to  be  that  stone,  and  to  have  its 
force,  we  must  be  solid  and  united. 
We  do  not  want  the  stones  to  be  a 
conglomerate  that  in  its  speed  will 
break  to  pieces.  We  want  to  be  a  unit- 
ed people,  that  can  stand  together,  and 
then  the  Lord  will  fulfill  His  promise — 
He  will  give  the  dominion  unto  His 
Saints.  God  bless  you  all.  Amen. 
The  choir  sang: 

High  on  the  mountain  top 

A  banner  is  unfurled; 
Ye  nations,  now  look  up, 

It  waves  to  all  the  world. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Rulon  S.  Wells, 


■ 


SECON 

Saturday,  April  6,  10  a.  m. 
Singing  by  the  choir  and  congrega- 
tion: 

"Come,   come   ye   Saints,   no   toil  nor 
labor  fear, 
But  with  joy  wend  your  way. 

Prayer   was   offered   by   Elder  Sey- 
mour B.  Young. 
The  choir  sang: 

Praise  ye  the  Lord;   my  heart  shall 
join, 

In  work  so  pleasant,  so  divine. 

ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 

Evidence  of  progress  —  Temples  and  vicarious 
work  for  the  dead — Duties  of  Presidencies  of 
Stakes,  High  Councilors  and  Bishops— Effec- 
tive methods  of  settling  difficulties. 

I  am  gratified  to  see  so  many  in  at- 
tendance at  this  conference.  We  are 
here  from  different  parts  of  this  State 
and  from  other  States  to  receive  coun- 
sel and  advice  and  to  partake  of  the 
spirit  of  the  conference. 

While  sitting  here  yesterday  I  was 
thinking  that  is  is  forty-seven  years 
this  spring  since  I  first  attended  confer- 
ence in  this  city,  and  I  have  been  con- 
trasting in  my  mind  the  changes  that 
have  occurred  from  that  time  until 
now.  At  that  time  none  of  these  beauti- 
ful buildings  on  this  block  were  here. 
We  met,  I  think,  in  the  old  tabernacle, 
and  the  congregation  was  small  com- 
pared to  what  it  is  today.  Since  that 
time  many  of  our  dear  brethren  and 
leaders  of  the  Church  have  been  called 
to  labor  in  another  sphere,  and  others 
have  taken  their  places;  this  beauti- 
ful Tabernacle  has  been  erected;  and 
four  Temples  have  been  reared  in  this 
State  to  the  name  of  the  Lord,  at  a 
cost  of  some  millions  of  dollars.  It  is 
wonderful  to  contemplate  the  progress 
and  advancement  that  the  people  of 
God  have  made.  The  Lord  has  surely 
blessed  their  labors,  and  multiplied 
them  in  the  good  things  of  the  earth. 
He  has  also  increased  them  in  faith  and 
in  every  blessing  that  makes  life  desir- 
able. We  certainly  ought  to  be  a  good 
people,  and  very  humble.    We  ought  to 


D  DAY. 

acknowledge  God,  and  in  the  earnest- 
ness of  our  souls  seek  Him  for  a  con- 
tinuation of  His  mercies. 

Yesterday,    in    thinking    about  the 
Temples  which  have  been  built,  I  won- 
dered how  many  among  us  appreciate 
the  privilege  of  entering  into  the  house 
of  the  Lord  and  performing  a  vicarious 
work  for  our  kindred  who  have  passed 
away.     The  doctrine  of  salvation  for 
the  dead  was  revealed  to  the  Church  at 
an  early  day.  From  the  very  beginning 
of  the  work  the  Church  has  been  com- 
manded      to       build       Temples.  It 
was        so       with        the  Nephites. 
They     had      only     been     upon  this 
continent  a  few  years  before  they  com- 
menced the  erection  of  a  temple.  The 
work  in  this  dispensation  had  only  been 
inaugurated  a  few  years     when  the 
building  of  a  temple  commenced.  This 
shows  the  importance  of  the  work,  and 
the  necessity  of  the  Latter-day  Saints 
laboring  in  the  interest  of  their  kindred 
dead.     There  are  many  brethren  and 
sisters  who  can  bear  testimony  that 
numbers  of  those  who  have  been  offi- 
ciated for    in  the  temples  of  the  Lord 
have  approved  of  the  work  done  for 
them  by  their  friends.    In  the  midst  of 
all   our   other  cares   and   labors,  this 
principle   of  redeeming     our  kindred 
should  not  be  lost  sight  of.    Our  Elders, 
when  they  go  abroad,  especially  if  they 
go  to  the  land  of  their  fathers,  should 
be  diligent  in  searching  out  the  rec- 
ords of  their  forefathers,  so  that  after 
their  return  they  may  officiate  in  the 
temples  of  the  Lord  for  them.   We  only 
have  this  short  life — but  a  few  days — in 
which  to  engage  in  this  work  and  to 
manifest  to  our  kindred  on  the  other 
side  that  we  have  interest  in  them,  and 
we  ought  to  avail  ourselves  of  the  op- 
portunity.   We  without  them  cannot  be 
made  perfect;  neither  can  they  without 
us  be  made  perfect.    This  work  of  the 
redemption   of  the  dead     will  go  on. 
President  Taylor  once  remarked  that  it 
would  go  on  in  our  lifetime,  and  in  the 
lifetime  of   our   children,   and  in  the 
lifetime  of  our  children's  children,  and 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


throughout  the  Millennium,  and  I  do 
mot  know  how  much  longer.  The  small 
fceginning  we  have  made  is  as  a  drop 
in  the  ocean  compared  to  that  which 
has  to  be  done;  for  it  is  the  design  of 
the  Father  to  save  and  redeem  His 
children. 

The  Saints  have  done  pretty  well, 
considering  their  circumstances;  hut 
the  spirit  of  temple-work  has  not  yet 
permeated  the  hearts  of  the  people  as  a 
whole.  A  number  have  done  a  good 
work,  and  have  sought  diligently  the 
records  of  their  fathers;  while  others 
have  been  indifferent.  I  feel  in  my 
heart  that  there  should  be  an  awaken- 
ing among  the  people  in  regard  to  this 
matter.  While  we  have  the  opportunity 
- — while  the  day  lasts — let  us  avail  our- 
selves of  this  privilege.  Some  are 
putting  it  off  because  they  have 
only  got  a  small  record,  and  they  say 
to  themselves,  "I  guess  I'll  wait  a  lit- 
tle longer  until  I  can  increase  my  rec- 
ord, so  that  when  I  do  commence  I  can 
continue."  I  do  not  think  that  is  a  good 
idea.  If  you  have  the  record  of  but  few, 
those  few  ought  to  be  officiated  for;  and 
when  you  have  attended  to  them,  if 
you  are  diligent,  the  way  will  be  open- 
ed up  whereby  you  may  obtain 
other  records.  This  has  been  the  case 
frequently.  We  cannot  afford  to  wait 
when  we  have  the  opportunity. 

I  suggest  these  things  because  I  am 
engaged  in  this  work,  and  I  feel  the  im- 
portance of  it.  It  is  just  as  important 
to  redeem  our  kindred  as  it  is  to  go 
abroad  and  bring  souls  into  the  Church. 
The  houses  of  the  Lord  have  been 
erected,  their  doors  are  open  to  those 
who  are  worthy,  and  we  ought  to  at- 
tend to  this.  Furthermore,  associated 
with  the  Temples  of  the  Lord  are  bless- 
ings that  cannot  be  found  in  other 
places.  The  power  of  God  is  frequently 
manifested  there  to  individuals.  The 
■visions  of  their  minds  are  opened,  and 
they  see  the  things  of  God.  Of  course, 
these  things  are  not  for  the  public,  nor 
to  be  heralded  abroad;  they  are  sacred, 
and  given  of  the  Lord  for  the  comfort 
and  consolation  of  His  faithful  servants 
and  handmaidens.  Hence  I  urge  the 
importance  of  the  Saints  considering 
these  things  in  their  homes.  Families 
should  arrange  their  affairs  so  that  this 
work  can  be  attended  to  in  their  life- 


time; for  the  evidence  is  manifest  on 
every  hand  that  it  will  only  be  a  little 
while  before  you  and  I  will  be  among 
those  that  were;  we  will  be  gone  to  the 
other  side,  our  labors,  so  far  as  mortal- 
ity is  concerned,  finished.  Now  is  the 
accepted  time;  now  is  the  day  of  salva- 
tion. 

Many    things    were  brought  to  my 
mind  yesterday  relative  to  the  growth 
and   sanctiflcation   of     the   people.  I 
have  found  in  my  experience  that  it  ia 
a  constant  labor  to  obey  the  precepts 
of  the   Gospel.   We   have     a  perfect 
Church   organization.   Nothing   like  it 
can       be       found       anywhere.  It 
has  come  from  the  Lord.  We  have  Stake 
and  ward  organizations.  One  of  the 
Stake  organizations  is  the  High  Coun- 
cil. Now,  it  has  been  considered  in  days 
gone  by  that  the  office  of  High  Coun- 
cilor  was   a   nominal   one,    and  that 
there  was  not  much  for  the  High  Coun- 
cil to  do.    This  is  a  mistaken  idea.  They 
should  be  one  with  the  Presidency  of 
the  Stake,  as  the  Twelve  Apostles  aie 
one  with  the  Presidency  of  the  Church; 
and  it  would  be  an  excellent  thing  if 
the  presidents  of  Stakes  would  follow 
the   lead   of   the   Presidency     of  the 
Church.    We  find  that  the  Presidency 
cf  the  Church  have  their  regular  meet- 
ings.   They  meet  one  day  each  week, 
and  as  many  of  the  Twelve  meet  with 
;,hem  as  are  able.    It  would  be  well  li 
this  were  followed  in  the  Stakes.  Let 
the  Presidency  of  the  Stake  meet  every 
week,  and  the  High  Council  meet  with 
them,  and  talk  over  matters  pertain- 
ing to  the  welfare  of  the  people  of  the 
Stake.     Let  them  sing  and  pray  to- 
gether, and  ask  the  Lord  to  direct  them 
in  their  ministry.    I  know  this  is  a  good 
thing.    I  will  tell  you  what  is  needed 
in  the  whole  Church,  and  that  is,  that 
every  ward  in  the  Church  be  labored 
with  by  the  officials  of  the  ward  and  of 
the  Stake,  that  it  may  be  said  one  year 
from  now  that  every  non-tithepayer  in 
the  Church  has  been  converted.  Some- 
body has  to  do  this  labor,  why  not  the 
Presidency  of  the  Stake  and  the  High 
Council  take  it  up  and  see  what  good 
they  can  accomplish  the  coming  years. 
Let  them  see  if  they  cannot  bring  about 
a  reformation,  that  the  report  may  not 
come  to  the  President  of  the  Church 
that  there  are  ten  thousand,  or  any 


ELDER  M.  W.  MERRILL. 


oilier  number  of  non-tithepayers  in  the 
Church. 

This  law  of  tithing  was  not  insti- 
tuted by  man;  it  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord  to  the  people,  and  those  who  do 
not  comply  with  it  will  certainly  meet 
with  loss.  Hence  the  importance  of 
every  member  of  the  Church  being-  en- 
lightened, that  they  may  be  brought 
to  realize  their  position  and  the  neces- 
sity of  reforming  and  doing  better.  And 
how  can  a  man  be  converted  without 
somebody  to  convert  him?  How  can  he 
hear  without  a  preacher?  If  this  labor 
were  to  devolve  upon  the  Presidency 
and  High  Council,  it  would  give  the 
High  Council  something  to  do  besides 
sitting  on  trials.  While  the  High  Coun- 
cils are  organized  and  prepared  to  hear 
and  adjudicate  difficulties  between 
brethren,  their  labors  should  be  direct- 
ed in  other  channels,  and  those  who 
have  difficulties  should  be  advised  to 
settle  them  themselves. 

I  will  tell  you  how  I  have  done  in 
Cache  Stake.  For  the  past  year  we 
have  not  had  one  High  Council  trial. 
We  have  selected  brethren  and  sent 
them  to  parties  having  difficulty  and 
trouble,  and  I  have  said  to  the  breth- 
ren, Go  and  sing  the  songs  of  Zion  to 
them.  "Well,  how  many  times  shall 
we  sing?"  "Well,  sing  once,  and  then 
pray;  sing  again,  and  continue  to  sing 
until  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  there, 
and  you  can  feel  that  there  is  a  soften- 
ing." I  tell  you,  it  has  had  excellent 
results.  The  difficulties  have  been  set- 
tled by  the  parties  themselves.  Their 
hearts  have  been  softened,  and  they 
have  concluded  to  arrange  their  own 
troubles.  That  i=  the  only  way  they 
can  be  settled.  The  High  Council  can- 
not do  it;  the  Bishop's  court  cannot 
do  it.  They  may  pass  decisions,  but 
does  that  settle  it?  There  is  only  one 
way  to  settle  it,  and  that  is  set  forth  in 
the  scriptures:  Go  to  thy  brother,  and 
between  him  and  thee  alone  make  re- 
conciliation. Let  us  settle  our  difficul- 
ties ourselves,  and  let  the  High  Council 
be  employed  in  preaching  the  Gospel 
and  in  conversing  by  the  fireside,  just 
as  our  Elders  do  in  the  world.  Our 
Elders  make  more  converts  by  the  fire- 
side than  they  do  in  the  pulpit.  They 
go  to  the  homes  of  the  people  and  talk 


with  them.  That  is  just  what  is  needed 
in  Zion.  Let  our  brethren  who  have 
authority  go  to  the  firesides  of  the 
people,  and  convert  them  to  attending 
their  meetings  and  doing  their  duty. 

Especial  comolaint  is  made  that  tha 
Elders  do  not  attend  their  quorum 
meetings.  They  need  converting.  They 
are  good  men,  but  careless  and  incon- 
siderate. Their  minds  need  to  ba 
touched  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and 
there  needs  to  be  an  awakening  in  their 
hearts.  There  is  no  trouble  about  the 
sisters;  if  the  brethren  will  only  do 
right,  lead  and  counsel,  and  sing 
and  pray  in  the  family  circle,  the  sis- 
ters will  be  all  right.  The  difficulty  lies 
with  the  heads  of  families  and  with 
the  bearers  of  the  holy  Priesthood,  who 
have  agreed  to  do  their  duty,  because 
when  we  ordain  people  now  we  ask 
them  if  they  will  be  faithful  in  their 
calling  and  ministry.  We  need  an 
awakening. 

While  it  is  proper  for  the  Presidency 
and  High  Council  to  meet,  and  to  sing 
and  pray  together,  the  same  rule  will 
apply  to  the  Bishopric  of  every  ward. 
Have  these  meetings  weekly;  and  do 
not  let  some  trifling  thing  keep  you 
from  them.  One  Bishopric  said  to  me 
that  not  one  of  them  could  sing.  I  sug- 
gested that  they  call  in  somebody  who 
could  sing;  and  if  they  could  not  get 
anybody  let  them  sing  the  best  they 
could  themselves.  Do  the  best  you  can, 
and  the  Lord  will  accept  it.  Sing  and 
pray,  and  talk  over  the  affairs  of  the 
ward.  Just  as  sure  as  you  will  adopt 
this  policy  and  carry  it  out,  you  will  be 
benefactors  to  the  ward  and  a  blessing 
to  the  people.  Your  minds  will  be  led 
out  in  the  interest  of  the  people;  and 
when  they  see  you  have  their  welfare  at 
heart  they  will  be  willing  to  come  to 
you  for  counsel.  President  Snow  says 
there  are  many  Bishops  who  do  not  do 
their  duty.  I  know  that  is  true,  and  I 
know  the  Lord  inspired  him  to  say  it, 
for  he  could  not  make  a  personal  visit 
to  each  ward  and  find  out  its  condi- 
tion. The  Lord  inspired  him  to  say 
this,  and  it  ought  to  sink  into  our 
hearts.  We  want  to  save  men  and  wo- 
men; we  want  to  save  families.  We  go 
abroad  and  spend  our  time  and  means 
to  preach  the  Gospel  and  gather  people 


2S 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


into  the  Church,  while  in  many  in- 
stances we  are  neglecting  those  right  at 
our  doors.  Everybody  is  not  alike,  and 
it  is  a  good  thing  we  are  not.  President 
Snow  says  we  each  have  our  individ- 
uality, and  we  always  will.  I  suppose 
we  will  always  be  .just  what  we  are, 
and  if  we  make  progress  in  ourselves, 
so  much  the  better.  It  is  expected  that 
we  will  make  progress,  and  that  we  will 
spread  abroad. 

It  is  designed  in  the  heavens  that  this 
people  shall  be  at  the  head,  and  that 
the  great  men  of  the  nation  will  come 
by  and  by  to  Zion  for  counsel  and  wis- 
dom. Where  are  we  going  to  get  it? 
What  are  our  opportunities  above  oth- 
er people?  Why,  we  commune  with  the 
heavens.  There  is  where  we  are  in  ad- 
vance of  the  world.  We  not  only  have 
the  advantages  of  their  learning,  but 
we  have  divine  inspiration,  by  which 
our  minds  are  enlightened.  The  Presi- 
dency of  t!»  Church  have  the  heavens 
opened  to  them  by  the  Spirit  and  power 
of  God,  and  they  will  be  able  to  counsel 
the  wisest  of  the  nations.  This  time 
will  come;  nor  is  it  far  off. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  feel  the 
importance  of  having  an  awakening 
among  the  saints.  Do  not  think  to  at- 
tain to  great  things  by  peculiar  mea- 
sures, as  Brother  Smoot  referred  to 
yesterday,  such  as  having  special  fast 
meetings  for  the  benefit  of  somebody. 
Take  the  order  of  the  Church  as  it  is, 
and  do  not  seek  to  bring  in  side  issues 
and  change  the  ordinances  of  the  Gos- 
pel. If  we  change  the  ordinances  of  the 
Gospel,  we  will  soon  break  the  covenant 
we  have  entered  into.  The  Lord  com- 
plained to  ancient  Israel  that  they 
transgressed  His  laws,  changed  the  or- 
dinances and  broke  the  everlasting 
covenant;  and  He  chastised  them  be- 
cause of  their  iniquities.  On  another 
occasion  He  told  them  that  they  had 
robbed  Him.  They  wanted  to  know 
wherein  they  had  robbed  Him.  "In 
tithes  and  offerings."  How  many  of  us 
have  robbed  the  Lord  in  tithes  and  of- 
ferings? While  there  has  been  a  very 
commendable  increase  in  this  direction, 
I  feel  in  my  heart  that  we  have  not  yet 
fully  come  up  to  the  mark  and  satis- 
fied the  feelings  of  our  beloved  Presi- 


dent, because  he  comprehends  these 
things,  and  God  is  with  him  to  inspire 
ana  direct  him  in  his  counsels  to  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Let  us  see  if  we 
cannot  improve  this  present  year.  But  if 
a  reformation  is  brought  about,  it  must 
be  by  effort  and  labor.  If  it  is  effective 
in  ourselves  and  in  our  families,  it  will 
need  labor. This  devolves  upon  the  Pres- 
idents of  Stakes, upon  High  Councils, and 
Bishops,  and  all  the  Priesthood,  and 
the  Lord  will  not  justify  us  if  we 
seek  to  shirk  the  responsibility.  Hence, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  I  think  the 
best  thing  we  can  do  is  to  make  new 
resolutions  in  our  hearts;  and  where- 
in we  have  failed  in  the  past,  let  us  try 
to  make  up  for  it  in  the  future.  So 
sure  as  we  do,  the  Lord  will  be  with 
us,  and  the  manifestations  of  His  pow  ■ 
er  will  be  felt  in  every  Stake  and  ward 
of  Zion.  It  is  the  rule,  the  discipline 
of  the  Church,  and  we  must  seek  to 
carry  it  out  in  our  lives,  that  it  may 
be  said  of  us  when  we  pass  away,  as 
it  can  be  of  a  number  of  good  people, 
"Well  done,  good  and  faithful  servant; 
you  have  done  well  in  your  lifetime: 
you  have  filled  the  measure  of  your 
creation  in  usefulness  before  the  Lord, 
and  have  labored  unselfishly  in  the 
interest  of  His  work."  If  we  could  di- 
vest ourselves  of  selfishness  and  trust 
implicitly  in  our  Father,  how  grand 
would  be  our  history. 

I  suppose  I  have  occupied  all  the  time 
that  belongs  to  me.  I  feel  well.  I 
know  that  this  is  the  work  of  God.  I 
bear  record  to  you  that  it  is.  The  Gos- 
pel has  been  revealed  in  our  day  and 
time,  and  we  have  been  privileged  to 
have  our  eyes  opened  a  little  to  com- 
prehend the  great  truths  God  has  re- 
vealed. These  brethren  at  the  head  are 
the  right  men  in  the  right  place.  The 
Presidency  of  the  Church  are  filled  with 
inspiration;  they  are  clothed  with  the 
power  of,  God,  to  the  extent  that  their 
administration  is  successful,  and  will 
continue  to  be  successful.  Let  our  ad- 
ministrations continue  to  be  successful, 
and  the  Church  will  triumph;  the  king- 
dom and  the  greatness  of  the  king- 
dom will  be  given  to  the  Saints  of  the 
Most  High)  by  and  by,  and  shall  never 
more  be  taken  from  them.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


27 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 

The  Church  built  upon  new  and  continuous  revela- 
tion— Divine  authority  conferred  upon  and 
through  Joseph  Smith— Time  of  the  gathering 
of  Israel  at  hand— Gospel  of  the  kingdom 
restored  and  all  nations  shall  hear  it— Coming 
of  Christ  is  near. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  trust  that 
our  Father  in  heaven  will  bless  me  with 
a  portion  of  His  Holy  Spirit  this  morn- 
ing, that  I  may  say  that  which  shall  be 
in  accordance  with  His  mind  and  will, 
for  I  realize  that  except  the  Lord  is 
with  us  we  can  accomplish  nothing. 

When  I  behold  this  vast  concourse 
of  people  gathered  together  in  this 
large  building,  I  naturally  ask  myself 
the  question,  What  brings  them  to- 
gether? And  as  I  am  familiar  with 
the  fact  that  you  have  gathered  from 
the  four  corners  of  the  earth,  and  are 
building  up  a  great  commonwealth  in 
western  America,  I  ask  myself,  What 
is  the  great  moving  force  among  this 
people?  Elder  Merrill  has  just  re- 
ferred to  the  great  temples  that  the 
Latter-day  Saints  have  built  in  this 
State,  and  I  am  aware  that  this  people 
are  dwelling  in  upwards  of  four  hun- 
dred cities,  towns  and  villages  in  the 
Rocky  Mountain  region.  It  is  truly  a 
remarkable  work  that  is  being  accom- 
plished by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
I  naturally  enquire,  What  is  this  great 
work  founded  upon?  I  passed  a  build- 
ing the  other  day,  and  it  had  poles 
sticking  up  against  the  east  and  south 
walls.  I  looked  for  a  moment  at  the 
building,  and  I  discovered  that  it  was 
going  to  fall,  because  the  foundation 
was  not  good.  It  was  evident,  from  the 
appearance  of  the  house,  that  the  more 
you  built  upon  the  walls  the  greater 
would  be  the  fall  when  it  should  come. 
In  the  early  history  of  the  Salt  Lake 
Temple  there  were  spme  large  stones 
put  in  the  foundation  which  were  not 
sound.  President  Young  discovered 
this;  and  although  it  had  cost  a  great 
deal  to  put  the  foundation  in,  he  or- 
dered it  all  taken  out.  What  was  his 
object  in  doing  this?  It  was  that  there 
might  be  a  good,  solid  foundation  un- 
der that  structure,  so  that  when  the 
temple  was  completed,  the  foundation 
would  not  crack  and  give  way  by  rea- 
son of  the  immense  weight  resting  upon 


it.  Now  that  it  is  completed  we  can  see 
the  wisdom  exhibited  by  President 
Young  at  that  time. 

I  desire  to  compare  our  Church  to  a 
house;  and  I  say  unto  you  that  if  you 
are  not  building  your  foundation  strong 
and  of  good  material,  the  greater  the 
house  you  put  upon  it  the  greater  will 
be  the  fall  when  it  shall  come.  What 
kind  of  a  foundation  have  you?  Is  it 
laid  correctly?  As  I  understand  it,  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  built  upon  the  foundation  of 
revelation  from  God  the  Eternal  Father 
— not  upon  revelation  given  eighteen 
hundred  years  ago;  for  we  would  be 
slow  to  build  a  house  with  stones  that 
had  been  in  a  building  eighteen  hun- 
dred years;  but  upon  revelation  given 
in  the  nineteenth  century.  In  using 
this  word  "revelation,"  I  do  not  refer  to 
it  as  it  is  understood  by  the  sectarian 
world;  but  I  mean  new  and  continued 
revelation  from  God  the  Eternal  Father, 
to  guide  His  people.  Are  we  justified 
in  taking  this  view  of  the  situation? 
Let  me  ask  this  congregation,  What 
was  the  Church  of  Christ  built  upon  in 
the  days  of  Jesus?  This  can  best  be 
answered  by  Jesus  himself.  On  one  oc- 
casion He  asked  His  Apostles.  "Whom 
do  men  say  that  I  the  Son  of  man  am?" 
They  replied,  "Some  say  that  thou  art 
John  the  Baptist;  some,  Elias;  and 
others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  proph- 
ets." He  said,  "But  whom  say  ye  that 
I  am?"  Peter,  who  was  the  President 
of  the  Apostles,  answered  him  saying. 
"Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the 
living  God."  Jesus  then  blessed  Peter, 
saying,  "Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Bar- 
jona;  for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  re- 
vealed it  unto  thee,  but  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven.  And  I  say  also  un- 
to thee,  That  thou  art  Peter,  and  upon 
this  rock  I  will  build  my  Church;  and 
the  gates  of  hell  shall  not  prevail 
against  it."  From  this  we  can  see  that 
the  Church  of  Christ  in  His  day  was 
built  upon  the  principle  of  revelation 
from  God  the  Eternal  Father — the  same 
principle  that  made  known  unto  Peter 
that  Jesus  was  the  Christ. 

"There  was  a  man  of  the  Pharisees, 
named  Nicodemus,  a  ruler  of  the  Jews; 

"The  same  came  to  Jesus  by  night, 
and  said  unto  him,  Rabbi,  we  know 
that  thou  art  a  teacher  come  from  God: 


'is 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


for  no  nvan  can  do  these  miracles  that 
thou  doest,  except  God  be  with  him. 

"Jesus  answered  and  said  unto  him, 
Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except 
a  man  be  born  again,  he  cannot  see 
the  kingdom  of  God. 

"Nicodemus  said  unto  him,  How  can  a 
man  be  born  when  he  is  old?  can  he 
enter  the  second  time  into  his  mother's 
womb,  and  be  born? 

"Jesus  answered,  Verily,  verily,  I  say 
unto  thee.  Except  a  man  be  born  of 
water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he  cannot  en- 
ter into  the  kingdom  of  God." 

There  are  many  people  today  exactly 
in  the  same  position  as  Nicodemus  was. 
They  will  have  to  be  born  again  be- 
fore they  can  understand  the  things  of 
God.  But  the  Apostle  Peter  had  been 
born  of  the  Spirit.  And  how  did  this 
come  upon  him?  It  came  by  revelation 
from  God;  and  Jesus  told  him  that  up- 
on this  rock  of  revelation  He  would 
build  His  Church.  That  is  the  kind  of 
foundation  which  underlies  the  struc- 
ture of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

Jesus  went  still  further  in  blessing 
Peter.    He  said: 

"And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys 
of  the  kingdom  of  heaven:  and  what- 
soever thou  shalt  bind  on  earth  shall 
be  bound  in  heaven:  and  whatsoever 
thou  shalt  loose  on  earth  shall  be 
loosed  in  heaven." 

Here  was  divine  authority  conferred 
upon  the  children  of  men  to  act  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  "for 
there  is  none  other  name  under  heav- 
en given  among  men,  whereby  we  must 
be  saved." 

In  this  day  the  keys  of  the  kingdom 
of  God  were  conferred  upon  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  John  the  Bap- 
tist came  and  conferred  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  upon  him,  and  Peter,  James 
and  John  conferred  the  Melchisedek 
Priesthood.  Was  Joseph  Smith  au- 
thorized to  go  forth  and  administer  in 
the  ordinances  of  life  and  salvation, 
because  God  the  Eternal  Father  and 
His  Son  Jesus  Christ  had  appeared  un- 
to him?  Oh,  no!  Before  he  could  do 
that  it  was  necessary  that  the  keys  of 
the  kingdom  of  heaven  should  be  con- 
ferred upon  him.  After  Peter,  James 
and  John  appeared  unto  him,  Elijah 
came  and  gave  unto  him  the 
keys  for  the  redemption  of  the 
dead:  and  Moses  came  and  de- 
livered    unto     him     the    keys  of  the 


gathering  of  Israel  in  the  last  days. 
For  behold,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  day  is  at  hand  which  was  spoken 
of  by  the  Prophet  Jeremiah: 

"Therefore,  behold,  the  days  come, 
saith  the  Lord,  that  it  shall  no  more  be 
said,  the  Lord  liveth  that  brought  up 
the  children  of  Israel  out  of  the  land  of 
Egypt; 

"But  the  Lord  liveth  that  brought  up 
the  children  of  Israel  from  the  land  of 
the  north,  and  from  all  the  lands 
whither  he  had  driven  them:  and  I  will 
bring  them  again  into  their  land  that 
I  gave  unto  their  fathers. 

"Behold,  I  will  send  for  many  fishers, 
saith  the  Lord,  and  they  shall  fish 
them  and  after  will  I  send  for  many 
hunters  and  they  shall  hunt  them 
from  every  mountain,  and  from 
every  hill,  and  out  of  the  holes  of  the 
rocks." 

This  day  is  at  hand.  The  fishers  and 
the  hunters  are  going  from  nation  to 
nation,  declaring  the  Gospel  of  the 
kingdom  of  God;  for  it  has  been  re- 
vealed in  its  fulness  in  this  our  day 
by  an  angel  from  God.  After  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  been  or- 
dained and  set  apart  to  preach  the 
everlasting  Gospel  and  administer  in 
the  ordinances  thereof,  he  ordained 
others  according  to  the  commandment 
of  God;  and  today  we  have  hundreds 
and  thousands  of  the  Elders  of  Israel 
going  forth  to  the  various  nations  of 
the  earth,  lifting  up  their  voices  and 
crying,  "Repent  ye,  repent  ye,  for  the 
kingdom  of  heaven  is  at  hand."  Jesus 
tried  to  gather  the  people  together  in 
His  day,  but  they  would  not.  He 
wept  over  the  city  of  Jerusalem,  and 
said: 

"O  Jerusalem,  Jerusalem,  thou  that 
killest  the  prophets,  and  stonest  them 
which  are  sent  unto  thee,  how  often 
would  I  have  gathered  thy  children  to- 
gether, even  as  a  hen  gathereth  her 
chickens  under  her  wings,  and  ye  would 
not!" 

On  another  occasion  He  told  the 
Jews,  because  they  had  rejected  Him: 

"Therefore  say  I  unto  you,  the  king- 
dom of  God  shall  be  taken  from  you, 
and  given  to  a  nation  bringing  forth 
the  fruits  thereof." 

After  His  resurrection,  His  disciples 
asked  .Him,  "Lord,  wilt  thou  at 
this  time  restore  the  kingdom 
again  to  Israel?"  He  answered, 
"It  is  not  for  you  to  know  the  times 
or  the  seasons  which  the  Father  hath 


ELDER  JOHN  W.  TAYLOR. 


29 


put  in  His  own  power."  There  was  a 
certain  way  in  which  the  kingdom 
Bhould  he  restored  to  Israel;  the  Pro- 
phets had  written  about  it,  and  Jesus 
recognized  that.  He  had  told  His  dis- 
ciples previously  that  He  came  not  to 
do  away  with  the  law  and  the  prophets, 
but  to  fulfil.  "Verily  I  say  unto  you, 
till  heaven  and  earth  pass,  one  jot  or 
one  tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  from 
the  law,  till  all  be  fulfilled."  Jesus  also 
prophesied  that  they  would  persecute 
His  disciples  and  cast  them  out  of  their 
synagogues,  and  that  the  time  would 
come  when  they  who  killed  them  would 
think  they  were  doing  God's  service. 
Did  this  come  to  pass?  Yes.  All  the 
Apostles  were  put  to  death,  excepting 
one  man,  and  he  remained  on  the  earth 
according  to  the  promise  of  the  Savior 
as  recorded  in  the  sixteenth  chapter  of 
Matthew.  Who  was  that?  John  the 
Revelator.  But  it  seemed  like  he  was 
destined  to  suffer;  for  he  was  a  slave 
on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  working  in  the 
lead  mines.  While  there  the  angels  of 
God  ministered  unto  him,  and  he  was 
shown  many  great  and  glorious  things 
pertaining  to  the  history  of  the  people 
who  should  live  upon  this  earth.  He 
described  the  way  in  which  this  king- 
dom, which  Jesus  said  should  be  taken 
from  among  the  Jews,  should  be  re- 
stored again  to  Israel.  In  the  four- 
teenth chapter  of  Revelation,  he  says. 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlast- 
ing Gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that 
dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to.  every  nation, 
and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
End  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
His  judgment  is  come:  and  worship 
Him  that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and 
the  sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 

We  testify  to  you  here  today  that  this 
has  been  literally  fulfilled.  The  angel 
Moroni  came  unto  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  and  declared  unto  him  the  ful- 
ness of  the  everlasting  Gospel,  and 
commanded  him  to  go  into  all  the 
world  and  preach  the  Gospel  to  every 
creature.  "He  that  believeth  and  is 
baptized  shall  be  saved;  and  he  that 
believeth  not  shall  be  damned." 

Some  of  you  have  heard  that  Elder 
Grant  is  going  to  Japan,  and  you  be- 
(;in  to  query  in  your  minds,  Is  this  na- 
tion of  the  house  of  Israel?  Is  it  a 
proper  thing  for  Elder  Grant  to  go  to 


Japan?  I  want  to  tell  you  that  there  is 
no  nation  on  the  face  of  the  earth  but 
will  hear  the  everlasting  Gospel;  for 
the  word  of  God  has  gone  forth  that 
the  Gospel  shall  be  proclaimed  unto  all 
nations  for  a  witness;  and  this  was  to 
be  a  sign  of  His  coming  and  of  the  end 
of  the  world.  Then  our  minds  may  be 
set  at  rest  in  regard  to  Elder  Grant 
going  to  Japan. 

How  beautiful  is  this!  We  begin  now 
to  understand  why  the  Savior  instruct- 
ed His  disciples  to  pray,  "Our  Father, 
which  art  in  heaven,  Hallowed  be  thy 
name.  Thy  kingdom  come."  The  sec- 
tarian world  todav  are  all  praying  for 
the  kingdom  of  God  to  come.  Let  me 
say  to  them  and  to  all  the  world,  that 
God  has  revealed  himself  from  the 
heavens  in  this  our  day.  He  has  or- 
ganized His  Church  and  Kingdom  upon 
the  earth,  for  the  redemption  of  the 
children  of  men.  And  it  is  no  longer 
necessary  for  you,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  ask  God  the  Eternal  Father 
that  the  kingdom  of  God  may  come; 
but  pray  that  He  will  prepare  you  for 
the  coming  of  the  King— our  Lord  and 
Savior  Jesus  Christ.  For,  behold,  that 
day  is  at  our  doors.  As  the  Prophet 
Malachi  has  said: 

"Behold,  I  will  send  my  messenger, 
and  he  shall  prepare  ■  the  way  before 
me;  and  the  Lord,  whom  ye  seek,  shall 
suddenly  come  to  His  temple,  even  the 
messenger  of  the  covenant,  whom  ye 
delight  in:  behold,  he  shall  come,  saith 
the  Lord  of  hosts." 

Some  will  say  that  this  messengef 
sent  to  prepare  the  way  was  John  the 
Baptist;  but  I  say  unto  you  that  Jesua 
Christ  did  not  come  suddenly  unto  Hia 
temple  in  that  day.  He  grew  up  as  a 
child,  and  they  said,  "Are  not  these  hia 
brothers  and  His  sisters."  It  was  th« 
second  coming  of  Christ  that  Malachi 
referred  to,  as  the  following-  will  prov« 
to  you: 

"But  who  may  abide  the  day  of  Hia 
coming?  and  who  shall  stand  when  H« 
appeareth?  for  he  is  like  a  refiner's 
Are,  and  like  fuller's  soap: 

"And  He  shall  sit  as  a  refiner  and  puri- 
fier  of  silver;  and  He  shall  purify  th« 
sons  of  Levi,  and  purge  them  as  gold 
and  silver,  that  they  may  offer  unto  the 
Lord  an  offering  in  righteousness." 

All  the  children  of  men  abided  th« 
day  of  His  first  coming.  They  lived 
with  Him,  talked  with  Him.  and  list- 


30 


GENERAL  conference. 


ened  to  His  instructions;  but  I  say  un- 
to you  that  when  He  comes  the  second 
time,  following  the  testimony  of  His 
servants,  He  will  come  as  a  refiner's 
Are  and  as  fullers'  soap.  "For,  behold, 
the  day  cometh,  that  shall  burn  as  an 
oven;  and  all  the  proud,  yea,  all  that 
do  wickedly,  shall  be  stubble;  and  the 
day  that  cometh  shall  burn  them  up, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  that  it  shall 
leave  them  neither  root  nor  branch." 

My  testimony  unto  you  is  that  the 
coming  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  is  nigh  at  hand.  I  testify  that 
we  have  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revela- 
tors  among  this  people  .and  that  Loren- 
zo Snow  is  the  man  who  has  been  called 
upon  to  be  the  mouthpiece  of  God  unto 
this  people.  It  is  as  Jesus  said,  "Man 
shall  not  live  by  bread  alone,  but  by 
every  word  that  proceedeth  out  of  the 
mouth  of  God."  This  principle  of  revel- 
ation is  the  foundation  of  the  Church 
of  Christ.  It  is  the  rock  that  Christ 
told  Peter  He  would  build  His  Church 
upon;  and  upon  that  rock  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
built.   How  beautiful  is  this  principle! 

How  nicely  this  corresponds  with  the 
words  of  Jesus: 

"It  is  expedient  for  you  that  I  go 
away;  for  if  I  go  not  away,  the  Com- 
forter will  not  come  unto  you;  but  if  I 
depart  I  will  send  him  unto  you. 

"Howbeit  when  He,  the  Spirit  of 
truth,  is  come,  He  will  guide  you  into 
all  truth;  for  He  shall  not  speak  of 
Himself;  but  whatsoever  He  shall  hear, 
that  shall  He  speak:  and  He  will  show 
you  things  to  come." 

This  is  revelation.  This  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation.  This  is 
the  principles  by  which  God  guid- 
eth  His  Church  in  every  age  of 
the  world.  I  rejoice,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  this  Church  is  built  upon 
revelation.  I  can  go  further,  and  say 
that  it  is  built  "upon  the  foundation  of 
apostles  and  prophets,  Jesus  Christ. 
Himself  being  the  chief  corner  stone." 

I  pray  the  Lord  to  lengthen  out  the 
life  of  President  Lorenzo  Snow,  that  he 
may  live  to  fully  satisfy  his  desires  up- 
on the  earth  and  the  mind  and  will  of 
God  concerning  him;  that  He  will  also 
bless  his  counselors,  according  as  they 
need  at  this  very  hour,  and  bless  and 
qualify  every  one  of  us  to  perform  our 
duties  in  the  Church  and  Kingdom  of 


God.  For  I  say  unto  you,  my  brethren 
and  sisters1,  it  is  not  he  that  has  the 
gift  of  prophecy,  or  the  gift  of  tongues; 
it  is  not  he  that  has  received  the 
ministration  of  angels,  that  will  be 
saved  in  the  Kingdom  of  God;  but  it 
is  he  that  endureth  unto  the  end. 
Speaking  of  the  time  when  He  should 
sit  on  the  throne  of  His  glory  and  judge 
the  children  of  men,  Jesus  says: 

"Many  will  say  unto  me  in  that  day, 
Lord,  Lord,  have  we  not  prophesied  in 
thy  name?  and  in  thy  name  have  cast 
out  devils?  and  in  thy  name  done  many 
wonderful  works? 

"And  then  will  I  profess  unto  them. 
I  never  knew  you:  depart  from  me.  ye 
that  work  iniquity. 

"Not  every  one  that  saith  unto  me, 
Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the  king- 
dom of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  my  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 

When  the  Savior  came  upon  the 
earth,  there  were  men  living  who  held 
the  Priesthood;  but  would  thev  re- 
ceive new  revelation?  No,  they 
would  not;  but  they  said.  "We  have 
Abraham  to  our  father."  John  the  Bap- 
tist rebuked  them  for  their  hypocrisy, 
and  said,  "Think  not  to  say  within 
yourself,  We  have  Abraham  to  our  fa- 
ther; for  I  say  unto  you.  that  God  it, 
able  of  these  stones  to  raise  up  children 
unto  Abraham."  Jesus  said  to  His 
disciples,  "Ye  are  the  salt  of  the  earth: 
but  if  the  salt  hath  lost  his  savor, 
wherewith  shall  it  be  salted?  it  is 
thenceforth  good  for  nothing, 
but  to  be  cast  out.  and  to 
be  trodden  under  the  foot  of  men" 
I  say  unto  you  that  we  have  men  in 
this  day  holding  the  Priesthood  after 
the  order  of  the  Son  of  God,  who  have 
lost  their  savor,  and  they  are  good  for 
nothing,  but  to  be  cast  out.  For  I  tell 
you,  the  Lord  will  not  justify  any  man, 
no  matter  what  Priesthood  he  holds, 
except  he  hold  himself  ready  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  God,  to  be  hum- 
ble, and  to  be  obedient  to  his  seniors 
in  the  Priesthood.  It  is  an  eternal 
principle,  that  he  that  humbleth  himself 
shall  be  exalted,  and  he  that  exalteth 
himself  shall  be  abased.  Jesus  descend- 
ed below  all  things,  that  He  might  rise 
above  all  things;  and  the  only  way  we 
can  be  justified  in  the  sight  of  God  is 
to  be  humble  and  obedient.  Instead  of 
being  determined  to  have  our  own  will, 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


31 


let  us  bring-  our  will,  our  passions  and 
our  ambitions  into  subjection  to  the 
mind  and  will  of  God  as  manifested 
through  His  servants  who  preside  over 
us,  and  we  will  be  saved  in  the  day 
of  the  Lord  Jesus.  But  if  we  determine 
to  have  our  own  way  and  work  out  our 
own  will,  we  will  stand  condemned;  for 
the  Lord  will  not  justify  any  man  in 
becoming  a  law  unto  himself. 

God  bless  you  and  fill  you  with  His 
Holy  Spirit,  and  help  us  all  to  keep  His 
commandments,  that  we  may  be  saved 
and  exalted  in  His  kingdom,  which  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Recognition  of  the  fidelity  of  the  Saints— Actlors 
the  best  evidence  of  sincerity— An  exhibition 
ot  true  friendship — A  testimony  to  the  truth. 

I  am  pleased  to  have  the  opportunity 
of  standing  before  the  Latter-day 
Saints  and  addressing  them  in  this 
conference.  1  have  rejoiced  in  the 
spirit  and  inspiration  of  the  confer- 
ence thus  far,  and  I  desire  that  the  re- 
marks which  I  may  make  may  be  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  same  good  Spirit. 
As  I  have  often  said  in  occupying  this 
position,  I  desire  only  to  '  say  those 
things  that  shall  be  beneficial  to  those 
who  listen  as  well  as  to  myself.  If  1 
know  my  heart,  I  believe  I  can  in  all 
truth  testify  that  it  is  set  upon  the 
building  up  of  the  Church  and  Kingdom 
of  God  upon  the  earth.  I  desire  above 
all  things  to  know  the  mind  and  will 
of  God  concerning  me  as  an  individual; 
and  after  having  learned  that,  I  want 
the  strength  and  the  determination  to 
carry  the  same  out  in  my  life. 

I  was  particularly  impressed  with 
the  remarks  of  President  Snow  in  the 
opening  of  our  conference,  referring  to 
the  man  who,  when  he  found  a  great 
treasure  in  the  field,  went  and  sold  all 
he  had  that  he  might  obtain  it;  or, 
when  he  discovered  a  pearl  of  great 
value,  he  sold  all  he  had  to  secure  it. 
While  listening  to  his  remarks  I  re- 
membered a  letter  which  I  have  read 
in  many  of  the  wards  and  Stakes  of 
Zion,  and  I  may  have  read  it  in  this 
building;  but  if  I  have,  the  sentiments 
therein  contained,  one  sentence  in  par- 
ticular, have  made  such  a  profound  im- 
pression upon  my  mind  that  I  do  not 


know  that  I  can  do  better  than  to  again 
read  an  extract  from  the  letter,  with 
the  sincere  prayer  that  it  may  find  lodg- 
ment in  your  hearts.  It  was  written 
to  me  by  a  gentleman  with  whom  I 
have  been  acquainted  from  my  child- 
hood. It  is  something  over  thirty 
years  since  I  first  knew  him,  and 
he  has  been  a  very  dear  friend 
of  mine.  I  may  say  that,  with 
the  exception  of  my  associates  in  the 
Church  of  Christ  and  my  own  relatives, 
there  is  no  man  living  upon  the  earth 
today  that  has  as  warm  a  place  in  my 
heart  and  that  I  love  as  dearly  as  the 
man  who  wrote  this  letter.  I  do  not  know 
that  he  would  care  to  have  me  mention 
his  name;  therefore  I  shall  not  do  so; 
but  I  will  state  that  at  the  time  he 
wrote  this  letter  he  was  the  general 
manager  for  the  United  Kingdom  of  a 
corporation  of  over  two  hundred  mil- 
lions of  dollars;  so  you  may  know  that 
he  was  a  man  of  considerable  experi- 
ence and  importance  in  the  business 
world.  The  letter  was  written  to  me 
from  London: 

"My  Dear  Heber: 

"Tour  very  nice  long  letter  of  the 
10th  came  duly  to  hand.  Of  course,  you 
know,  aside  from  the  long  and  intimate 
personal  friendship  we  have  had  to- 
gether, how  much  I  have  always  been 
impressed  with  the  genuineness  and 
sincerity  of  the  religious  feeling  among 
the  men  and  women  who  hold  your 
faith.  Many  times  and  oft  I  have  said, 
in  conversation,  that  the  only  religious 
people  I  ever  knew  who  lived  up  to 
their  professions,  were  the  Mormons  of 
Utah.     And  this  is  true." 

I  am  indeed  grateful  that  my  friend 
has  not  access  to  the  list  of  non-tithe- 
payers,  amounting  to  ten  thousand,  be- 
cause I  doubt  very  much  if  then  he 
could  say  "that  the  only  religious  peo- 
ple I  ever  knew  who  lived  up  to  their 
professions, were  the  Mormons  of  Utah." 
I  am  grateful  that  the  Mormons  with 
whom  this  man  became  acquainted  were 
not  only  Mormons  in  name,  but  that 
they  were  in  very  deedLatter-day  Saints. 
He  gained  his  opinion  of  all  "Mormons" 
by  those  with  whom  he  became  ac- 
quainted; and  I  have  often  said  in  pub- 
lic that  I  regard  it  as  the  duty  of  every 
Latter-day  Saint  to  so  order  his  life 
that  his  conduct  will  inspire  all  people 
with  respect  for  him,  and  thereby  cre- 
ate respect  for  the  entire  people.     It  is 


i-2 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


In  keeping  with  the  teachings  of  our 
Savior  to  let  our  light  so  shine,  that 
men,  seeing  our  good  works,  will  glori- 
fy God  and  be  led  to  embrace  the  Gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ. 

"This  it  is  that  inspires  respect, 
even  when  there  is  a  total  absence 
of  a  belief  in  the  doctrines.  Your  peo- 
ple carry  their  beliefs  into  daily  life, 
and  act  as  if  they  think  there  is  some- 
thing in  them.  If  I  had  the  belief  to 
start  with,  I  cannot  see  how  as  a  sen- 
sible person  I  could  do  otherwise." 

Now,  here  is  the  sentence  that  I  de- 
sire impressed  upon  your  minds  indel- 
libly: 

"If  there  is  anything  [and  my  friend 
draws  a  big  black  line  under  'anything'] 
in  a  belief  which  involves  an  eternity 
of  future  existence,  there  is  everything 
[and  my  friend  draws  another  black 
line  under  'everything.']" 

Do  we  as  Latter-day  Saints  believe 
this?  Do  we  appreciate  the  force  of 
my  friend's  remark?  "If  there  is  any- 
thing in  a  belief  which  involves  an 
eternity  of  future  existence,  there  is 
everything."  Are  we  convinced  that 
there  is  everything  in  this  belief  that 
involves  an  eternity  of  future  exis- 
tence? And  do  we,  as  our  friend  says 
we  do,  carry  our  beliefs  into  daily  life, 
and  act  as  if  we  do  think  there  is 
something  in  them?  Or  are  we  making 
pretensions?  Are  we  like  the  salt  that 
has  lost  its  savor,  that  is  henceforth 
good  for  nothing,  but  to  be  cast  out  and 
trodden  under  foot  of  men.  My  friend 
continues: 

"Now,  I  have  given  you  my  own  sin- 
cere thought.  The  fact  that  I  have  no 
Buch  conviction  is  evidenced  by  the  fact 
that  I  am  agnostic  on  such  questions, 
as  shown  by  my  own  actions." 

[f  we  are  to  take  that  standard — what 
Is  shown  by  the  actions — then  there 
are  thousands  of  Latter-day  Saints  who 
are  agnostics.  And  that  is  the  standard 
of  Jesus  Christ.  It  is  the  only  stand- 
trd  by  which  we  will  stand  or  fall. 

"Still  I  never  attempt  to  proselyte  on 
behalf  of  non-belief;  and  the  last  thing 
[  would  do,  is  to  disturb  those  who  be- 
lieve in  a  theory  which  I  don't;  and  I 
wont  argue  In  defense  of  my  own  lack 
of  believing. 

"I  think,  Heber,  I  have  expressed 
about  these  views  to  your  mother 
many  years  ago." 

This  man,  as  I  have  said,  is  a 
friend   of   mine,   and   he     has  shown 


his  friendship  by  his  actions— 
a  friendship  which  I  doubt  very 
much  I  could  have  experienced  from 
many  of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  if  they 
had  been  put  to  the  test.  In  the  panic 
of  1893,  this  man,  learning  of  my  fi- 
nancial distress,  wrote  me  a  letter  and 
announced  that  it  was  impossible  to 
borrow  any  money  in  San  Francisco 
(where  he  was  then  located)  upon  ordi- 
nary securities,  but  that  money  was 
there  to  he  loaned  upon  real  estate.  He 
said  tuat  he  had  no  real  estate  except 
his  home,  but  if  the  money  from  a 
mortgage  piaced  upon  his  home  would 
save  my  financial  life,  he  said,  "tele- 
graph me  upon  receipt  of  this  letter; 
do  not  wait  to  write,  because  delays 
are  dangerous,  and  the  money  shall 
ccme  to  you  by  the  first  mail."  I  could 
not  restrain  my  tears  when  I  read  that 
letter,  lo  think  that  God  had  given  me 
sufficient  of  His  Spirit  whereby  I  had 
been  enabled  to  so  live  that  a  man  who 
was  an  agnostic,  ana  who  had  no  hope 
beyond  the  grave,  had  been  so  im- 
pressed with  the  genuineness  of  my 
character  and  integrity  that  he  was 
willing  to  risk  his  home  to  save  my 
"financial  life."  What  called  forth  this 
letter?  My  friend  wrote  to  me  from 
London,  inquiring  about  my  mother, 
about  her  sister,  and  about  a  number 
of  other  people  with  whom  he  was  ac- 
quainted when  he  was  a  boarder  in  my 
mother's  home,  and  wanting  to  know 
how  they  were  getting  along.  Among 
others,  he  inquired  regarding  my  cou- 
sin, Anthony  W.  Ivins;  and  I  wrote 
and  told  him  of  the  sacrifices  that  he 
had  made,  in  selling  his  property  and 
moving  to  a  foreign  country.  With  re- 
gard to  those  sacrifices,  I  remarked  that 
he  had  gone  because  of  a  call  he  had 
received,  without  any  earthly  hope  of 
reward,  and  I  said;  "You  see  that  we 
Mormons  go  where  we  are  sent,  with- 
out regard  to  the  profits  that  may 
come  to  us."  This  called  forth  the  let- 
ter I  have  read  in  your  hearing.  Thai 
man,  to  my  knowledge,  many  yean 
ago,  was  the  instrument  in  the  hand! 
of  God,  in  connection  with  anothei 
friend  of  mine,  of  making  for  this  peo. 
pie  a  friend  of  a  man  who  was  choser 
to  govern  this  Territory,  namely,  Gov 
Axtell.    He  wrote  to  me  that  he  caret 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


33 


here  imbued — "filled  full,"  is  the  ex- 
pression in  the  letter — with  his  ideas  of 
the  "Mormons."  He  said:  "He  is  my 
friend,  and  I  know  what  kind  of  a  peo- 
ple you  are,  and  he  comes  there  be- 
lieving as  I  believe." 

I  maintain  that  it  is  the  duty  of 
every  Latter-day  Saint  to  so  order  his 
life  that  every  man  will  believe  he  is 
honest  and  sincere.  I  was  in  Phoenix, 
Arizona,  some  years  ago,  with  Apostle 
John  Henry  Smith.  We  were  preach- 
ing, by  request,  in  the  opera  house 
there,  and  one  of  the  good  sisters  over- 
heard the  following  compliment 
(though  some  might  consider  it  very 
doubtful)  paid  me  while  I  was  speak- 
ing. A  man  said,  "Well,  that  man  is  a 
pretty  red  hot  talker,  and  seems  quite 
earnest."  Pretty  soon  he  exclaimed, 
"I'll  be  damned  if  that  fellow  don't 
talk  earnest."  Not  many  minutes 
passed,  and  he  said,  "I'll  be  damned  if 
I  don't  believe  that  fellow  believes  what 
he  is  saying."  Now,  if  we  can  impress 
every  person  with  whom  we  come  in 
contact  that  we  are  honest,  then  we 
have  done  something  towards  impres- 
sing them  with  the  honesty  of  all  the 
people.  I  prize  very  highly  a  letter 
that  I  got  from  a  friend  that  was  man- 
aging a  large  corporation  when  I  was 
made  an  Apostle.  He  said,  "Well,  I  al- 
ways thought  that  the  Mormon  leaders 
were  frauds,  but  now  that  they  have 
chosen  you  I  have  changed  my  opin- 
ion; for  I  know  you  are  honest,  and 
they  must  be,  or  they  would  not  dare 
have  you  in  their  counsels." 

You  will  pardon  me,  I  trust,  for  these 
personal  allusions.  They  say  that  per- 
sonalities sometimes  are  calculated  to 
impress  a  lesson  more  vividly  upon  the 
hearts  of  the  people  than  any  other 
kind  of  teaching.  I  do  know  that  God 
lives.  I  do  know  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ.  I  do  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  of  God.  I  do  know  that 
we  are  engaged  in  the  work  of  God.  I 
do  know  that  there  is  an  eternity  of 
future  happiness  in  store  for  every  Lat- 
ter-day Saint  that  keeps  the  command- 
ments of  God.    The  Savior  said: 

"He  that  hath  my  commandments, 
and  keepeth  them,  he  it  is  that  loveth 
me:  and  he  that  loveth  me  shall  be 
loved  of  my  Father,  and  I  will  love 
him,  and  will  manifest  myself  to 
him." 


This  promise  is  not  made  to  us,  only* 
upon  the  condition  of  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  God.  The  Savior  also 
said: 

"Whosoever  heareth  these  sayings  of 
mine,  and  doeth  them,  I  will  liken  him 
unto  a  wise  man,  which  built  his  house 
upon  a  rock: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell  not: 
for  it  was  founded  upon  a  rock. 

"And  everyone  that  heareth  these 
sayings  of  mine,  and  doeth  them  not, 
shall  be  likened  unto  a  foolish  man, 
which  built  his  house  upon  the  sand: 

"And  the  rain  descended,  and  the 
floods  came,  and  the  winds  blew,  and 
beat  upon  that  house;  and  it  fell:  and 
great  was.  the  fall  of  it." 

We  find  here  in  the  very  first  sec- 
tion of  the  Book  of  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  teachings  to  us  as 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  many  of  us  do 
not  remember  them. 

"And  the  arm  of  the  Lord  shall  be 
revealed;  and  the  day  cometh  that  they 
who  will  not  hear  the  voice  of  the 
Lord,  neither  the  voice  of  his  servants 
neither  give  heed  to  the  words  of  the 
prophets  and  apostles,  shall  be  cut  off 
from  among  the  people; 

"For  they  have  strayed  from  mine  or- 
dinances, and  have  broken  mine  ever- 
lasting covenant; 

"They  seek  not  the  Lord  to  establish 
his  righteousness,  but  every  man 
walketh  in  his  own  way,  and  after  the 
image  of  his  own  God,  whose  image  is 
in  the  likeness  of  the  world,  and  whose 
substance  is  that  of  an  idol,  which 
waxeth  old  and  shall  perish  in  Baby- 
lon, even  Babylon  the  great, which  shall 
fall." 

Are  we  seeking  our  own  mind  and 
will?  Do  we  believe  as  Apostle  Tay- 
lor said,  that  we  should  subject  our 
mind  and  will  to  the  will  of  God?  Are 
we  breaking  the  everlasting  covenant? 
In  this  same  revelation  the  Lord  also 
says: 

"And  verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  they 
who  go  forth  bearing  these  tidings 
unto  the  inhabitants  of  the  earth,  to 
them  is  power  given  to  seal  both  on 
earth  and  in  heaven,  the  unbelieving 
and  rebellious; 

"Yea,  verily,  to  seal  them  up  unto 
the  day  when  the  wrath  of  God  shall  be 
poured  out  upon  the  wicked  without 
measure; 

"Unto  the  day  when  the  Lord  shall 
come  to  recompense  unto  every  man 
according  to  his  work,  and  measure  to 
every  man  according  to  the  measure 
which  he  has  measured  to  his  fellow 
man." 

"For  I,  the  Lord,  cannot  look  upon 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


sin  with  the  least  degree  of  allowance; 

"Nevertheless,  he  that  repents  and 
does  the  commandments  of  the  Lord 
shall  be  forgiven; 

"And  he  that  repents  not,  from  him 
shall  be  taken  even  the  light  which  he 
has  received,  for  my  Spirit  shall  not 
always  strive  with  man,  saith  the  Lord 
of  Hosts." 

"Search  these  commandments,  for 
they  are  true  and  faithful,  and  the 
prophecies  and  promises  which  are  in 
them  shall  all  be  fulfilled. 

"What  I  the  Lord  have  spoken,  I 
have  spoken,  and  I  excuse  not  myself; 
and  though  the  heavens  and  the  earth 
pass  way,  my  word  shall  not  pass 
away,  but  shall  all  be  fulfilled,  whether 
by  mine  own  voice  or  by  the  voice  of 
my  servants,  it  is  the  same; 

"For  behold,  and  lo,  the  Lord  is  God, 
and  the  Spirit  beareth  record,  and  the 
record  is  true,  and  the  truth  abideth 
forever  and  ever." 

As  Latter-day  Saints  we  are  told  lo 
search  these  commandments,  for  they 
are  true  and  faithful. 

My  friends,  my  brethren  and  my  sis- 
ters, I  leave  with  you  my  testimony 
that  God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ, 
that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  of 
God.  I  leave  with  you  my  testimony 
that  only  by  keeping  the  command- 
ments of  God  will  you  be  saved.  I  say 
unto  you,  be  honest  with  God.  Never 
make  a  dollar  in  the  world  but  you  pay 
your  tithing  on  it.  Observe  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  Keep  the  commandments 
of  Almighty  God,  and  you  will  be 
raved.  In  bidding  you  good-bye  to  go 
to  a  foreign  land  to  preach  the  Gospel, 
I  wish  to  go  with  your  faith.  I  desire 
to  be  remembered  in  your  homes  night 
and  morning.  I  love  the  Latter-day 
Saints.  I  love  to  labor  for  the  ad- 
vancement of  the  kingdom  of  God.  I 
know  that  He  lives.  I  have  reached 
out  my  hand  and  plucked  the  fruit  of 
the  Gospel,  and  I  know  that  the  Gospel 
tree  is  alive  and  bears  fruit.  I  de- 
light to  labor  for  the  spread  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  I  thank  God  for  the  privilege 
of  going  to  introduce  the  Gospel  to  a 
nation  that  has  been  in  darkness.  I 
nope  and  pray  that  in  the  providence 
of  God  there  is  a  great  labor  to  be  ac- 
complished. I  pray  in  humility  that  I 
may  go  forth  with  the  faith  and  the 
prayers  of  the  Saints  to  accomplish  all 
that  God  desires  I  should  do.  I  leave 
my  blessing  with  the  Latter-day  Saints, 
and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 


The  choir  sang; 

Zion  stands  with  hills  surrounded. 

Zion,  kept  by  power  divine; 
All  her  foes  shall  be  confounded, 

Though  the  world  in  arms  combine. 

Benediction  by  Elder  Jonathan  G. 
Kimball. 


AFTERNOON  SESSION. 
The    choir    and    congregation  sang 
the  hymn  which  begins: 

"Our  God  we  raise  to  Thee, 
Thanks  for  Thy  blessings  free." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Angus 
M.  Cannon. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Softly  beams  the  sacred  dawning, 
Of  the  great  millennial  morn, 

And  to  Saints  gives  welcome  warning', 
That  the  day  is  hastning  on." 

ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 

The  world  seems  to  prefer  falsehood  to  truth— 
The  testimony  of  Jesus— Necessity  for  moial 
courage— T.ie  law  of  tithing— The  Saints  a 
loyal  people. 

I  have  rejoiced  exceedingly  at  this 
Conference  in  the  testimony  of  my 
brethren,  and  I  have  thought,  What 
are  the  people  of  the  world  think- 
ing of?  Have  they  eyes,  but  see. 
not;  ears,  but  hear  not;  and  hearts, 
but  understand  not?  I  wonder 
why  it  is  that  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth  prefer  falsehood  to  light 
and  truth.  I  remember  that, in  England, 
they  had  a  play  at  one  of  the  theaters, 
called  "The  Danites" — a  most  infamous 
thing,  calculated  to  prejudice  the  minds 
of  the  people  against  the  unpopular 
Latter-day  Saints.  I  noticed  the  other 
day  that  in  the  refined,  aristocratic  city 
of  Boston  they  are  enjoying  a  play 
termed  "The  Mormon  Wife."  Is  any- 
body justified  in  rejecting  the  truth 
because  of  the  scandals  circulated 
against  the  Latter-day  Saints?  I  under- 
stand that  all  men  and  women  are 
their  own  agents;  and  I  do  not  know 
a  worse  degree  of  slavery  than  to  be 
afraid  to  think  for  yourself  and  speak 
what  you  believe.  I  wonder  how  many 
of  this  congregation  would  be  present 
today  if  the  Latter-day  Saints  had  been 
moral  cowards.  But  they  are  men  and 
women  who  desire  to  think  for  them- 
selves.    Many  were  raised  in  the  pop- 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


35 


ular  religions  of  the  day,  and  came 
out  of  them  and  took  up  the  cross  of 
Christ.by  obeying  the  doctrine  of  Christ 
as  taught  in  His  Church.  They  turned 
from  the  worship  of  the  unknown  God 
to  the  worship  of  the  true  and  living 
God.  They  acknowledged  the  atone- 
ment of  Christ,  repented  of  their  sins, 
were  buried  with  Christ  in  baptism, 
thereby  obtaining  the  efficacy  of  the 
sanctifying  power  of  the  precious  blood 
of  Christ,  and  received  the  Holy  Ghost, 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands. 

Every  Conference  where  the  Twelve 
Apostles  have  been  they  have 
borne  their  testimony  that  they  know 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  true  Prophet  sent 
of  God.  How  do  they  know  it?  Be- 
cause they  have  accepted  the  doctrine 
of  the  Savior,  taught  by  His  authority. 
We  bear  testimony  that  the  authority 
of  God  is  restored  to  the  earth.  The 
Priesthood  of  Melchisedek,  after  the 
order  of  the  Son  of  God,  and  the  Priest- 
hood after  the  order  of  Aaron  have 
been  restored;  and  the  Gospel  is  be- 
ing preached  in  all  the  world  for  a  wit- 
ness, by  divine  authority.  The  word 
of  the  Lord  is  unto  all  people,  Repent 
and  be  baptized,  and  obgy  the  Gospel, 
worship  the  living  and  the  true  God, 
and  you  shall  have  a  living  witness  that 
He  lives,  and  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
That  was  the  message  which  came  unto 
me  years  ago.  I  accepted  it.  I  sought 
the  Lord,  and  He  answered  me;  and 
from  the  day  I  obeyed  this  Gospel  down 
to  the  present  time  I  have  had  a  living 
witness  concerning  the  truth  of  this 
work. 

Now,  what  is  the.  use  of  being  an 
idolater?  What  is  the  use  of  being  led 
by  priestcraft  and  false  tradition? 
What  will  be  the  outcome  of  all  such, 
when  men  have  the  opportunity  to  obey 
the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to 
become  the  children  of  the  Father  by 
adoption,  and  to  be  taught  of  Him?  Our 
beloved  brother,  John  W.  Taylor,  this 
morning  spoke  of  the  necessity  of  reve- 
lation. Why,  "the  things  of  God  know- 
eth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God." 
"Neither  knoweth  any  man  the  Father, 
save  the  Son,  and  he  to  whomsoever 
the  Son  will  reveal  Him."  "I  am  not 
ashamed  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ,"  said 
the  ancient  Apostle,  "for  it  is  the  pow- 
■er  of  God  unto  salvation.    *    *  For 


therein  is  the  righteousness  of  God  re- 
vealed from  faith  to  faith."  If  it  were 
essential  for  Peter  to  have  a  revela- 
tion from  Almighty  God  to  know  that 
Jesus  was  the  Christ,  is  it  not  essential 
that  every  man  and  woman  should  have 
the  same  opportunity,  we  all  being  the 
children  of  God,  and  He  being  no  re- 
specter of  persons?  I  often  wonder 
what  excuse  men  and  women  will  give 
the  Almighty  when  they  pass  behind 
the  vail,  who  have  lived  in  the  midst 
of  the  Latter-day  Saints,  who  have 
heard  the  doctrine  of  Christ  as 
taught  by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  and 
have  seen  the  temples  of  God,  in  which 
the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are  per- 
formed for  the  living  and  the  dead  by 
the  authority  of  God  and  the  power  of 
an  everlasting  priesthood.  My  friends, 
what  excuse  are  you  going  to  give  to 
the  Almighty?  His  ears  are  open  to 
your  cry,  as  they  have  been  to  ours,  if 
you  are  honest  and  desire  to  know  the 
truth.  The  Lord  has  said,  Look  unto 
me.  What  is  to  hinder  you  from  doing 
so?  "If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let 
him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it 
shall  be  given  him."  Is  it  possible  that 
you  have  no  faith  in  the  living  and  true 
God,  your  Creator,  and  in  the  principle 
of  revelation?  If  so,  it  is  a  bad  condi- 
tion to  be  in.  That  is  my  private  opin- 
ion, publicly  expressed.  I  am  afraid  it 
is  like  I  once  heard  a  gentleman  say  in 
Virginia.  We  had  been  preaching  the 
Gospel  and  bearing  a  faithful  testimony 
to  the  people,  under  the  power  and  in- 
fluence of  the  Holy  Spirit;  and  at  the 
close  a  gentleman  said,  "There  is  no 
doubt  that  these  men  have  the  scrip- 
tures on  their  side,  but  it  would  never 
do  to  belong  to  them,  for  they  are  so 
dreadfully  unpopular."  But  what  ex- 
cuse will  you  give  to  the  Lord  for  not 
receiving  the  message  of  the  Gospel 
that  we  declare  unto  you?  Will  you  say 
that  you  were  moral  cowards? 

We  want  no  cowards  in  our  band 
Who  will  their  colors  fly; 
We  call  for  valiant-hearted  men, 
Who  are  not  afraid  to  die. 

Do  you  not  sing  that?  Are  they  not 
your  sentiments?  If  not,  how  came  you 
to  be  Latter-day  Saints?  When  I  heard 
this  Gospel  it  was  threatenings,  threat- 
enings  all  the  time.    I  was  told  what 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


calamities  would  come  upon  me,  and 
maybe  death,  if  I  associated  with  these 
unpopular  people.  Thank  God  for  the 
courage  He  gave  me  to  embrace  the 
Gospel,  contrary  to  the  counsel  of  all 
my  friends'.  Why,  our  Master  was  un- 
popular. He  was  an  innovator,  be- 
cause He  told  the  truth;  and  we  are 
innovators,  because  we  tell  the  truth. 
Our  testimony  is  true,  and  those  who 
accept  the  Gospel  at  our  hands  bear 
witness  that  it  is  true,  because  they  re- 
ceive the  recompense  of  reward.  No 
man  ever  embraced  the  Gospel  of 
Christ  with  a  broken  heart  and  con- 
trite spirit,  and  lived  its  principles, 
who  was  disappointed  or  found  fault 
with  it;  but  the  closer  he  lived  to  its 
principles  the  more  of  the  power  of  God 
he  had. 

Now,  our  beloved  brother,  George  Q. 
Cannon,  is  lying  sick  unto  death  per. 
haps.  He  is  an  object  lesson  to  the 
nations.  He  has  traveled  extensive- 
ly. He  took  these  glad  tidings  of  great 
joy  to  the  house  of  Israel  in  the  Sand- 
wich Islands.  He  went  down  "below 
all  things."  Then  he  has  represented 
the  people  in  the  halls  of  Congress.  And 
no  man  or  woman  could  ever  say  of 
George  Q.  Cannon  that  he  was  any- 
thing but  a  gentleman.  Take  all  our 
leaders — President  Joseph  Smith. 
President  Brigham  Young,  President 
John  Taylor,  President  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff, President  Lorenzo  Snow — and  they 
are  the  highest  type  of  intelligence; 
men  who  have  known  no  fear.  God  has 
given  them  a  testimony,  and  that  testi- 
mony is  before  the  world.  Because  the 
people  are  unpopular  is  no  excuse  foi 
not  embracing  the  Gospel.  The  Lord 
Jesus  Christ  said,  "In  me  ye  shall  have 
peace;  but  in  the  world,  tribulation." 
We  have  had  plenty  of  tribulation;  but 
the  Lord  has  sustained  us  through  it  all 
the  time.  I  know  He  has  sustained  me 
in  my  weakness,  and  has  made  me 
strong  when  I  have  been  weak.  He  has 
come  to  my  aid  and  enabled  me  to 
discharge  my  duty.  So  with  my  breth- 
ren. I  remember,  in  1868,  when  I  was 
called  upon  a  mission  to  the  British 
Isles,  I  had  an  impression  that  I  would 
never  return.  I  remember  speaking  to 
President  Heber  C.  Kimball.  He  made 
some  remark  to  me,  and  said.  "Boy, 


do  you  hear  that?"  I  said,  "Yes,  sir." 
"Well,"  he  said,  "  I  want  you  to  re- 
member it,  for  you  will  not  see  me 
again."  That  confirmed  the  impression 
I  had,  (I  never  thought  of  him  dy- 
ing), and  the  agony  I  passed  through 
when  I  left  my  wife  and  three  chil- 
dren to  go  on  that  mission,  no 
man  knows,  except  he  has  gone  through 
it  himself;  but  by  the  grace  of 
God  I  was  enabled  to  say,  "It  does  not 
matter  to  me  whether  I  ever  come  back 
or  not;  the  Lord  has  called  me  on  this 
mission,  and  by  His  grace  I  am  going 
to  fulfill  it."  I  never  could  have  done  it 
only  by  the  grace  of  God,  and  to  Him 
be  all  the  glory.  In  other  circum- 
stances and  at  other  times,  when  my 
life  has  been  in  danger,  He  has  sus- 
tained me  so  that  I  did  not  flinch. 
Glory  be  to  Him,  not  to  His  weak,  un- 
worthy servant! 

These  are  evidences  to  me  that  it  is 
the  Lord's  work,  and  no  man-made 
system.  It  is  the  "Marvelous  work  and 
a  wonder"  that  is  being  performed  by 
our  Father  in  heaven.  All  glory  to  His 
holy  name  that  we  have  the  privilege 
of  being  associated  with  it!  I  am 
thankful  beyond  expression.  Our  lead- 
ers are  just  men,  upright  and  honest 
men.  They  are  devoted  to  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  righteousness  of  God 
upon  the  earth.  They  are  natural  gen- 
tlemen and  gentlewomen,  who  have  the 
spirit  of  this  work,  and  who  labor  for 
the  accomplishment  of  the  purposes  of 
the  Almighty,  that  His  righteousness 
may  be  established  upon  the  earth.  O 
my  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  how 
much  we  owe  to  our  Father  in  heaven, 
that  in  our  lowly  condition  He  brought 
us  to  these  glorious  vales  of  the  moun- 
tains, as  predicted  by  the  Psalmist: 

"O  that  men  would  praise  the  Lord 
for  his  goodness,  and  for  his  wonderful 
works  to  the  children  of  men! 

"Let  the  redeemed  of  the  Lord  say 
so,  whom  He  hath  redeemed  from  the 
hand  of  the  enemy; 

"And  gathered  them  out  of  the  lands 
from  the  east,  and  from  the  west,  from 
the  north,  and  from  the  south." 

Just  think  of  it!  that  we  should  live 
to  fulfil  that,  and  to  be  associated  witn 
this  "marvelous  work  and  a  wonder." 
Then  there  are  so  many  opportunities 
given  unto  us  to  assist  in  this  work. 
There  is  plenty  of  room  for  all,  male 


ELDER  GEORGE  TEASDALE. 


37 


and  female,  who  desire  to  labor  for  the 
glory  of  God.  But  the  Lord  has  said 
that  those  who  assist  in  this  work 
should  be  full  of  love,  having  faith, 
hope  and  charity,  being  temperate 
in  all  things,  trusting  in  the  Lord,  and 
doing  good. 

I  have  noticed  that  since  we  have  been 
more  faithful  in  the  payment  of  our 
tithes  and  offerings  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  has  increased  in  the  hearts  of  the 
people.  This  is  a  very  light  thing  that 
He  requires  of  us — one  in  ten.  I  some- 
times ask  a  little  boy,  if  his  father 
should  give  him  ten  apples  and  then 
ask  for  one-tenth  to  be  returned  to  him, 
how  many  would  he  give.  Why5  one,  he 
says.  Then  do  you  mean  to  tell  me  that 
grown  people  do  not  know  what  a 
tenth  means?  "Of  all  that  thou  shalt 
give  me,"  said  Jacob  of  old,  "I  will  sure- 
ly give  the  tenth  unto  thee."  Are  we 
doing  it?  If  we  are  not,  what  is  our 
justification?  The  Lord  requires  it  of 
the  widow  as  of  the  millionaire.  He  re- 
quires of  His  people  one-tenth  of  all  that 
He  blesses  them  with,  and  also  that 
they  should  be  considerate  to  the  widow 
and  the  fatherless.  "Pure  religion  and 
undeflled  before  God  and  the  Father  is 
this,  To  visit  the  fatherless  and  widows 
in  their  affliction,  and  to  keep  himself 
unspotted  from  the  world."  We  have 
nothing  to  do  with  the  world,  except  to 
preach  the  Gospel  to  them.  When  you 
desire  to  pattern  after  the  world  and 
come  under  their  influence  and  domin- 
ion, you  are  on  the  wrong  side.  "Come 
out  of  her,  my  people,  that  ye  be  not 
partakers  of  her  sins,  and  that  ye  re- 
ceive not  of  her  plagues."  Do  we  want 
to  be  plagued?  Do  we  want  to  be  con- 
sumed with  the  brightness  of  the  com- 
ing of  the  Son  of  God?  The  Lord  hath 
said  that  those  who  are  tithed  shall  not 
be  burned  at  His  coming.  Those  that 
rob  Him  in  tithes  and  offerings  shall 
become  as  ashes  under  his  feet.  Do  you 
want  to  be  in  that  condition? 

I  would  like  to  encourage  all  men  to 
be  kind  to  themselves,  and  to  worship 
the  living  and  true  God.  Come  out  of 
your  broken  cisterns,  that  hold  no  wa- 
ter; cease  your  idolatrous  practices  and 
the  worship  of  an  imaginary  God,  with- 
out body,  parts  or  passions;  and  come 
to  the  light  of  the  glorious  Gospel  of  the 
Son     of     God.     We    have    done  this, 


and  I  tell  you  it  is  glorious. 
There  is  nothing  under  the  hea- 
vens more  valuable  than  the 
fellowship  of  the  Spirit  of  God.  Do  you 
not  want  it?  Humble  yourselves  be- 
fore the  Lord.  "Blessed  are  the  meek, 
for  they  shall  inherit  the  earth. 
Blessed  are  they  that  hunger  and 
thirst  after  righteousness;  for  they  shall 
be  filled."  The  Lord  has  made  it  pos- 
sible for  us  to  assist  in  the  establish- 
ment of  His  righteousness  upon  the 
earth,  and  to  enjoy  the  pure  happiness 
there  is  in  the  practice  of  righteous- 
ness. There  is  nothing  that  gives  great- 
er happiness  than  the  doing  of  the  will 
of  God.  And  who  is  to  judge  us?  Who 
can  tell  whether  we  have  these  princi- 
ples or  whether  we  have  not?  Only 
those  who  embrace  them;  only  those 
who  hear  the  word  of  God  and  do  it.  That 
is  the  only  way  in  which  you  can  ob- 
tain a  testimony.  I  am  frequently 
asked  why  it  is  that  tourists  and  visi- 
tors to  this  city  cannot  go  into  the 
temple  of  the  Lord;  for  they  are  so 
curious  to  know  what  is  done  there. 
Why,  you  can  all  obtain  admission  into 
that  temple.  How?  By  obeying  the 
Gospel,  worshipping  the  living  and  true 
God  and  being  worthy,  through  keep- 
ing His  commandments,  to  enter  there. 
What  is  it  you  do  there?  We  perform 
ordinances  for  the  living  and  the  dead, 
we  learn  the  ways  of  the  Lord.  It  is 
all  summed  up  in  the  covenant  we  made 
when  we  went  down  into  the  waters 
of  baptism,  that  we  would  serve  God 
and  keep  His  commandments.  That 
covenant  covers  all  our  after  life.  Then 
we  should  be  what  we  profess.  I  say 
to  our  friends,  Repent,  and  obey  the 
Gospel;  for  Jesus  Christ  became  the 
author  of  eternal  salvation  to  all  that 
obey  him.  It  is  decreed  in  the  heaven 
of  heavens  that  you  must  be  born 
again.  You  must  be  born  of  water  and 
of  the  Spirit,  and  you  must  be  adopted 
into  the  Church  of  Christ  by  His  au- 
thority. This  is  not  difficult  to  under- 
stand, if  you  want  to  understand  it.  I 
knew  a  man  who  was  engaged  in  the 
Liverpool  office  of  the  Church  for 
twenty  or  thirty  years,  but  never 
embraced  the  Gospel.  He  would 
talk  about  it,  but  never  seemed 
to  sense  the  necessity  of  doing 
the  will  of  the  Father.    Well,  I  sup- 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


pose  there  are  reasons  why  some  people 
reject  the  Gospel,  and  why  others  ac- 
cept it.  But  those  who  accept  it  cer- 
tainly have  the  advantage,  to  the  glory 
of  God  our  eternal  Father.  We  love 
Him.  We  are  not  hypocrites.  "We  do 
not  teach  false  doctrine.  We  do  not  be- 
guile the  people.  At  the  same  time  we 
sustain  our  government,  though  we 
have  been  accused  of  not  doing  th:s.  I 
think  when  a  people  are  willing  to  give 
up  one  of  the  highest  and  most  holy  of 
their  principles  at  the  dictation  of  the 
government,  it  bears  a  testimony  that 
cannot  be  impeached.  More  than  that, 
when  the  government  wanted  our  boys 
to  help  them  defend  or  subdue,  they 
were  on  hand.  We  believe  in  the  gov- 
ernment; we  believe  in  the  Constitu- 
tion. Our  lawyers,  if  they  want  to  be 
loyal  to  God,  should  stand  by  that 
Constitution.  Let  this  be  a  State  that 
is  under  the  blessing  of  Cod,  and  a  firm 
supporter  of  the  Constitution,  that  we 
may  be  an  example  to  all  people  in  jus- 
tice, truth,  righteousness,  and  the  pro- 
tection of  life  and  property.  The  Lord 
did  not  inspire  the  fathers  that  wrote 
the  Constitution  for  nothing.  He  knew 
that  He  was  going  to  establish  His 
Church  upon  this  land.  Had  the  inhab- 
itants of  this  land  stood  by  that  Con- 
stitution, the  nation  today  would  be 
much  more  prosperous  than  it  is.  The 
Lord  has  said  that  those  who  love  Him 
and  keep  His  commandments  shall 
prosper,  and  it  is  the  same  with  na- 
tions as  with  individuals. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  I 
praise  the  Lord  that  I  have  the  privi- 
lege of  being  with  you,  an  Elder  in  the 
Church,  having  a  living  testimony  con- 
cerning this  work.  I  love  my  associ- 
ates. We  know  the  value  of  President 
Snow.  Ten  years  he  presided  over  the 
quorum  of  Apostles.  He  schooled  us, 
and  made  us  better  men  through  his 
glorious  administration.  If  you  Latter- 
day  Saints  will  listen  to  the  voice  of 
the  Lord,  I  will  promise  you,  in  the 
name  of  my  Master,  that  you  shall 
prosper  in  the  land,  your  enemies  shall 
never  overcome  you,  and  you  shall  be 
able  to  establish  the  righteousness  of 
God  in  the  earth,  to  the  glory  of  the 
Father,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRT  SMITH. 

Failure  to  fulfil  the  law  is  in  the  nature  of  a  re- 
volt— The  way  of  deliverance  and  prosperity — 
Necessity  of  self-examination. 

Thus  far  in  the  conference  the  breth- 
ren who  have  spoken  have  received  a 
most  liberal  portion  of  the  Holy  Spirit, 
and  some  absorbing  thought  has  been 
expressed  by  each  one,  which  has  af- 
forded food  for  reflection.  The  wit- 
ness of  the  Spirit  has  followed  their 
utterances.  The  manifest  strength  of 
President  Snow  in  the  opening  of  the 
conference,  the  clearness  of  his  voice, 
the  fulness  of  his  words,  gave  to  every 
person  present  an  assurance  that  the 
head  of  this  great  organization,  (the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints),  was  receiving  help  from  the 
proper  source.  As  each  one  of  the 
brethren  has  taken  his  place  upon  this 
platform  and --given  utterance  to  the 
words  suggested  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord,  there  has  been  a  renewal  of  that 
Spirit  which  rested  upon  our  chief  as 
he  placed  before  us  his  thoughts,  and 
congratulated  the  people  upon  the 
measure  of  improvement  that  had  been 
exhibited  in  their  efforts  to  apply  in  a 
practical  way  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel. 

The  words  of  truth  as  they  have 
fallen  from  the  lips  of  our  brethren 
have  pointed  out  very  clearly  to  our 
minds  the  fact  that  our  Father  was  not 
afraid  to  tell  us  the  truth,  to  give  us 
credit  for  the  efforts  we  have  legitim- 
ately made,  and  to  clearly  expose  to 
our  own  view  our  lack  of  fidelity  and 
faithfulness  in  the  performance  of  our 
part.  The  Spirit  has  portrayed  before 
our  minds  the  necessity  that  exists  for 
testing  each  one  of  us.  We  have  been 
informed  that  there  are  many  who  have 
been  registered  with  the  Latter-day 
Saints  through  the  waters  of  baptism, 
and  in  many  instances  have  been  or- 
dained to  the  Priesthood  and  been  made 
partakers  of  the  various  callings  and 
obligations  that  attach  thereto,  have 
been  unmindful  of  their  sacred  coven- 
ants. 

It  has  not  been  the  weakness 
of  the  flesh  alone  that  has  stood 
in  the  way  of  their  development. 
All  of  us  are  possessed  of  many  weak- 
nesses:   we    have   received   an  assur- 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITH. 


39 


ance  that  they  would  be  forgiven  us  if 
our  fidelity  to  the  Gospel  should  be 
fixed  and  established.  It  cannot  be 
charged  as  a  weakness  that  men  and 
women  to  whom  the  truth  has  come 
are  not  tithepayers  in  the  Church  of 
Christ.  It  may  be  through  a  weakness 
that  a  man  may  sometimes  tell  that 
which  is  untrue?  It  may  be  weakness 
that  exhibits  itself  in  our  lives  when 
sometimes  we  drink  ardent  spirits  and 
by  that  means  lose  our  judgment,  and 
possibly  are  drawn  away  from  our 
moorings?  But  the  continued  and  per- 
sistent neglect  of  a  requirement  such 
as  is  placed  upon  those  that  have  been 
made  partakers  of  the  Gospel  in  its 
fulness,  to  pay  their  tithing,  ceases 
to  be  a  weakness.  It  becomes  in  its 
nature  a  direct  revolt  against  an  ab- 
solute commandment  of  God,  designed 
to  establish  us  in  the  generous  and 
considerate  fulfillment  of  providing  for 
the  development  of  the  work  of  God 
and  our  own  well  being,  and  registering 
ourselves  as  willing  to  utilize  that 
which  Providence  shall  place  in  our 
hands  as  worldy  means  for  the  better- 
ment of  our  fellow  creatures  and  the 
dispensing  of  the  word  of  God  among 
the  children  of  men,  in  the  building  up 
and  beautifying  of  Zion,  in  the  extend- 
ing of  her  borders,  and  in  carrying  for- 
ward that  work  of  His  in  the  way  de- 
signed by  Him,  as  well  as  in  an  ex- 
hibition on  our  part  that  we  hold  no 
worldly  goods  above  His  work.  While 
we  may  fall  down  under  the  tempta- 
tion of  the  moment,  passion  may  gov- 
ern us  briefly,  and  we  may  make  this 
error,  yet  when  the  years  come  and 
go  and  Elders  of  the  Church,  holding 
the  Priesthood  of  the  Son  of  God,  are 
not  enrolled  upon  His  records — upon 
the  record  of  the  Lamb's  book  of  life, 
if  you  please— it  is  an  evidence,  not  of 
a  weakness,  but  of  revolt  against  an 
absolute  requirement  of  heaven. 

President  Snow,  in  his  efforts  to 
maintain  the  dignity  and  honor  of  the 
work  of  the  Lord  in  the  world,  when 
he  came  to  the  forefront  as  the 
chosen  leader  of  the  Saints,  un- 
der the  direct  revelations  of  our 
heavenly  Father,  pointed  out  to  us  as  a 
people  that  there  had  been  upon  our  part 
a  fearful  lack  of  earnestness  and  devo- 
tion,   as    written    in    the  books.  He 


pointed  the  way  of  freedom  from  the 
trammels  that  were  holding  us  down. 
He  pointed  to  us  the  way,  not  alone  of 
the  avoidance  of  dishonor  and  disgrace 

by  unpaid  bills  on  the  part  of  the 
Church  itself,  "_|  t  the  way  of  freedom 
also  for  the  Elders  of  the  Church  who 
had  gone  beyond  the  proper  limits  in 
their  own  business  concerns.  He  said 

that  their  liberty,  their  hope  lay  in 
turning  to  the  Lord,  and  seeking  by 
earnestness  and  devotion  to  utilize  their 
powers,  by  paying  their  just  dues  and 
being  placed  upon  that  record  from 
which  every  member  of  this  Church  its 
to  be  judged.  By  fixing  in  their  own 
souls  the  thought  that  this  is  the  test 
law  which  the  Almighty  has  estab- 
lished, and  if  you  will  fulfill  that  obliga. 
tion  rightly,  your  own  trammels  will 
be  relieved,  your  own  burdens  will  be 
lightened,  the  sunlight  of  the  Spirit 
shall  descend  in  richness  upon  you.  The 
efforts  of  those  who  would  retard  your 
progress  and  bar  the  advancement  of 
the  cause  of  Christ  will  be  futile.  The 
hands  of  your  enemies  will  be  weak- 
ened, the  light  and  inspiration  of  truth 
will  mark  the  way  for  you  to  indeed 
become  that  conquering  host  which  our 
Father  in  heaven  has  decreed  you  shall. 
This  is  not  to  be  done  in  the  spirit  of 
hate,  nor  in  malice  directed  against  any 
of  our  fellow  creatures,  but  in  the  spir- 
it of  independence  and  love,  tempered 
by  that  legitimate  humility  that  would 
lead  every  man  and  woman  conversant 
with  the  principles  of  the  Gospel  and 
the  spirit  of  this  work  to  sense  fully 
the  nature  of  the  great  mission  that  is 
theirs.  We  should  not  fail  to  sense  that 
this  world  is  before  us,  with  the  design 
of  God  who  sent  us  here;  that  it  is  our 
world,  if  you  please;  not  a  world 
to  be  conquered  by  the  sword,  not  a 
world  to  be  conquered  by  the  spirit  of 
hate,  not  a  world  to  be  subdued  simply 
to  satisfy  the  ambitions  of  men  and 
give  them  place  in  connection  with  it 
and  its  development,  but  a  world  to  be 
brought  into  subjection  to  Almighty 
God  through  the  cross  of  Christ  and 
through  the  principles  of  love  enunciat- 
ed by  Him  and  revealed  anew  in  the 
day  and  age  in  which  we  live;  that  no 
matter  what  may  come,  our  own  hearts 
purged  by  the  requirements  of  our  God, 
we  would   indeed   utilize   the  worldly 


40 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


means  that  that  Father  gave  us  to  pro- 
vide for  the  accomplishment  of  His 
purpose,  as  far  as  we  had  the  power; 
that  the  hand  which  He  chose  to  hold 
within  its  grasp  the  elements  of  power 
should  not  be  paralyzed  by  our  failure 
to  place  within  that  hand,  so  far  as  we 
possess  the  capability,  the  sinews  of 
war  that  should  enable  him  in  any  and 
every  field  where  His  purposes  required 
a  work  to  be  done,  to  accomplish  that 
work.  He  congratulated  you  upon  the 
wonders  that  have  been  accomplished, 
and  yet  there  are  wonders  still  to  be 
accomplished. 

You  have  been  flattered  that  you 
were  the  best  people  in  the  world.  I 
hope,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
each  man  and  each  woman  will  look  in- 
to the  inmost  recesses  of  their  own 
hearts,  weigh  the  conditions  of  the  duty 
imposed  by  the  Almighty  upon  them, 
and  ask  themselves  the  question,  as  the 
cold  investigation  is  made,  Is  this 
statement  of  our  brethren  correct,  so 
far  as  we  are  concerned?  Words  of 
flattery,  it  is  true,  sometimes  drop 
sweeter  upon  our  ears  than  words  of 
reproof.  We  bear  illy  sometimes  the 
words  of  reproof,  and  especially  if  we 
have  been  in  violation  of  some  require- 
ment or  law  of  God.  But  when  we  look 
into  the  recesses  of  our  own  hearts,  or 
examine  the  record  of  our  own  deeds, 
are  the  words  of  commendation  that 
are  spoken  to  us  as  a  body  merited  by 
each  one  of  us?  As  I  have  sat  in  the 
presence  of  my  associates  and  listened 
to  their  good  words  of  coun- 
sel and  commendation,  their 
words  of  censure,  I  have 
sought  to  put  myself  on  the  rack,  to 
examine  myself.  I  wish  that  I  could 
feel  that  I  had  fulfilled  as  thoroughly 
the  work  the  Almighty  has  given  me  to 
do  in  connection  with  you  as  I  should 
have  done?  But  while  I  was  examining 
myself  I  wondered  if  all  of  us  were  un- 
dergoing the  same  examination,  and  if 
so,  we  had  determined  that  with  the 
help  of  God  under  the  inspiration  of  His 
Spirit  as  it  came  from  the  lips  of  His 
servant,  we  would  be  tithepayers,  we 
would  be  exemplars  in  every  walk  of 
life,  so  far  as  we  had  the  power.  While 
some  little  weakness  might  overtake 
us,  we  would  not  register  ourselves  as 
in  revolt  against  any  proposition  that 


Almighty  God  had  laid  upon  us  as  a 
duty  that  we  should  discharge.  We 
might  miss  for  a  brief  season  the  pay- 
ment of  tithes,  but  the  years  should 
not  come  and  go  and  our  names  not  be 
found  on  the  records  of  the  judge  of  the 
house  of  Israel;  that  the  days  and  the 
months  should  not  pass  by  and  we 
utilize  our  means  with  which  Provi- 
dence blesses  us  without  being  mindful 
of  that  aid  that  we  should  give  for  the 
furtherance  of  the  purposes  of  that 
Father  who  had  given  us  the  right  to 
the  receipt  of  His  Priesthood,  or  who 
had  permitted  us,  if  we  had  not  at- 
tained this,  to  enter  the  sacred  door 
of  the  waters  of  baptism  and  receive 
the  baptism  of  water  and  of  fire  and 
the  Holy  Ghost,  while  hundreds  and 
thousands  around  us  as  good  as  we, 
so  far  as  their  lives  are  concerned,  as 
earnest  as  we  in  that  which  they  deem 
right,  and  in  many  instances  much 
more  liberal  than  we,  and  yet  by  some 
condition  that  can  scarcely  be  explained 
remain  aloof  from  the  consoling  and 
convincing  influence  of  that  Spirit  that 
comes  from  on  high. 

But  yesterday  in  passing  from  this 
building  to  my  own  home,  I  met  a  gen- 
tleman whose  friendship  I  appreciate 
very  highly,  not  a  member  of  our 
Church;  a  man  that  I  believe  to  be  in 
the  business  world  a  man  of  perfect 
honor  and  integrity,  a  moral  man.  I 
met  him  upon  the  sidewalk.  I  put  my 
arm  around  his  shoulders,  and  said  to 
him,  "My  friend,  I  believe  I  have  the 
prize  of  prizes,  that  has  been  given  of 
God  to  our  Father's  children.  You  and 
I  have  met  in  the  business  world  for 
years  and  years;  your  treatment  of  me 
has  been  the  treatment  of  a  gentleman; 
I  have  respected  and  do  respect  you  as 
a  man  of  honor."  "He  says,  "I  have 
been  a  moral  man,  Mr.  Smith,  but  I 
have  not  been  a  religious  man,  in  the 
sense  in  which  you  religious  men  some- 
times speak."  Said  I,  "Look  here,  by 
and  by  this  race  will  be  run,  and  you 
and  I  will  be  on  the  other  side.  I  do  not 
want  you  to  say  to  me  on  the  other 
side,  'Mr.  Smith,  in  that  sphere  yonder, 
you  had  the  prize  of  prizes,  and  you 
never  offered  me  an  understanding  of 
it.'  I  want  to  ask  you  as  a  matter  of 
friendship — for  I  believe  that  I  have  the 
truth— that  you  will  make  it  in  your 


ELDER  JOHN  HENRY  SMITE. 


41 


way  to  visit  the  religious  services  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints.  Seek  to  receive  of 
their  spirit  and  to  comprehend  that 
which  they  are  engaged  in."  He  prom- 
ised me  that  he  would,  and  I  believe  he 
will.  As  to  the  impressions  that  the 
Almighty  may  make  upon  his  mind  as 
he  shall  listen  to  the  words  that  may 
be  spoken  by  the  Elders  of  the  Church, 
it  is  not  for  me  to  determine.  His  spirit 
must  be  in  that  condition  that  the 
spirits  of  some  of  you  were  in  in  times 
past  when  you  drank  in  of  the  truth; 
but  if  his  spirit  does  drink  in  of  the 
truth,  I  believe  him  to  be  of  that  mould 
that  means  and  abilities  would  be  util- 
ized by  him  for  the  accomplishment  of 
that  which  in  his  honor  he  believed  was 
true.  I  think  that  many  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints  are  discrediting  themselves 
in  their  neglect  of  that  which  the  Mas- 
ter has  placed  within  their  reach  by  a 
failure  to  meet  these  obligations  and  to 
have  their  names  registered  by  the  com- 
mon judge  upon  the  records  designated 
by  the  Almighty  for  preserving  the  evi- 
dence of  the  goodness  of  their  hearts 
and  their  conversion  to  His  truth. 

I  see,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
my  proportion  of  the  time  is  gone,  but 
standing  before  you  with  the  full 
knowledge  of  the  responsibility  that  at- 
taches to  my  chief  as  well  as  to  my 
associates  in  connection  with  this 
work,  I  say  to  you,  write  your  names 
in  the  Lamb's  book  of  life;  for  it  is 
the  Lamb's  book  of  life  when  you  reg- 
ister yourself  as  a  bestower  of  that 
which  Providence  places  in  your  hands 
and  give  it  into  the  hands  of  the  par- 
ties designated  by  the  Almighty  to 
utilize  that  means  for  the  extension  and 
upbuilding  of  the  Zion  of  our  God. 
There  is  no  requirement  resting  upon 
you  to  pay  tithes  upon  somebody  else's 
property  or  earnings;  but  the  law  of 
God  to  His  people  is  that  that  which  is 
yours,  which  comes  into  your  hands 
each  year,  shall  be  tithed.  He  requires 
of  His  people  that  that  witness  for  His 
truth  shall  be  registered  by  the  pay- 
ment of  tithes  and  offerings;  and  no 
man  or  woman  that  fails  and  continues 
to  fail  in  this  duty  can  be  in  any  other 
condition  in  connection  w'ith  the  work 
of  God  except  in  open  revolt.  The  miss- 
ing for  a  season  may  be  a  lack  of  judg- 
ment, maybe  a  fault,  but  when  it  con- 


tinues without  limit,  that  man  or  thai 
woman  has  rejected  in  his  or  her  soul 
the  law  that  God  has  given.  Theit 
names  will  disappear  in  connection  with 
our  Father's  work. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  let  us  obey  the 
commandments     of     our     Father  in 
heaven,  register  our  names  in  His  book, 
register  our  name  in  words  of  com- 
fort and  advice,  guiding,  as  far  as  we 
may  have  the  power,  our  fellow  man  to 
an  understanding  of  the  truth.    Let  us 
ever   remember   that   these   sons  and 
daughters  of  His,  scattered  throughout 
the     world     or     mingling     with  us 
in     our     own     homes,     though  not 
of   our   own   faith,   are   His  children, 
created     in     His     likeness     and  in 
His    image;     and    that     while  the 
truth  has   come  to  us,   the  responsi- 
bility   in    the    receipt    of    that  truth 
upon  us  is  indeed  great.    Every  word 
that  can  be  spoken,  every  deed  that 
shall  turn  the  hearts  of  our  fellows  to 
our  Maker,  should  be  performed  by  us. 
That  which  we  have  embraced  is  in- 
deed   the     Gospel    of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  We  are  indeed  in  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Our  mission  is  the  puri- 
fying of  God's  children  in  all  the  world. 
He  who  fails  to  perform  his  part  in  this 
ministry,  after  having  been  made  a  par- 
taker of  the  heavenly  gifts,  will  find 
himself  outside  of  the  holy  communion, 
and  the  blessings  in  store  for  our  Fath- 
er's children.    I  pray  for  our  country 
and  its  good;  for  the  development  of 
that  truth  which  our  Father  has  given 
us;  for  the  spirit  of  hate  to  be  ban- 
ished; for  the  spirit  of  love  to  reign  su- 
preme among  this  people;  and  that  in 
their  love  of  mankind  they  shall  be  en- 
abled to  turn  indeed  "the  hearts  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children  and  the  hearts 
of  the  children  to  the  fathers,"  extend- 
ing not  alone  unto  that  future  time,  but 
encompassing  all  the  good  that  will  be 
saved  upon  this  earth  in  the  flesh  in  the 
day  and  time  we  are  acting  among 
them.  I  know  that  the  Gospel  is  true; 
that    His    Priesthood    and    power  is 
among  the  children  of  men;  that  it  has 
been  given  to  man,  "never  again  to  be 
taken  from  the  earth  nor  given  to  an- 
other people,"  but  to  be  established, 
carried  from  land  to  land,  from  clime  to 
clime,  to  be  preached  to  every  nation, 


42 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  every  kindred,  to  every  tongue,  and 
to  every  people,  that  they  to  whom  the 
message  comes  through  the  ministra- 
tions; of  God  the  Father  and  His  Holy 
Son  may  fulfill  their  destiny  and  be 
crowned  with  His  approval,  because 
they  obeyed  His  laws.  Amen. 

ELDER  C.  W.  PENROSE. 

Mankind  in  the  image  of  God-Every  soul  is  im- 
mortal—Obedience to  law  essential  to  salva- 
tion -.Universal  redemption  —  Glory  to  be 
regulated  by  merit. 

This  is  a  most  magnificent  sight  to 
me.  When  I  looked  upon  the  congre- 
gation this  afternoon  and  saw  the  un- 
covered heads  of  both  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  thought  of  the  saying  of 
Scripture,  that  God  made  man  in  his 
own  image,  "in  the  image  of  God  creat- 
ed He  him;  male  and  female  created  He 
them."  I  also  thought  of  one  remark 
made  by  President  Snow  in  his  open- 
ing address,  that  every  one  of  us  is 
immortal,  that  the  spiritual  part  of 
our  being  is  the  offspring  of  God,  and 
no  matter  how  long  we  may  have  ex- 
isted before  we  came  into  the  world,  or 
what  is  the  mystery  of  our  origin,  we 
are  immortal  beings,  and  while  ages 
go  and  come  and  changes  will  take 
place  in  the  worlds  that  God  has  creat- 
ed and  in  the  beings  who  inhabit  them, 
that  we  shall  live  on  forever  and  ever, 
and  there  will  be  no  end  to  our  exis- 
tence and  to  the  development  of  the 
powers  that  exist  within  us  as  the  sons 
and  daughters  of  God.  What  a  grand 
and  ennobling  thought  this  is!  that 
though  we  now  are  weak,  clothed 
around  with  mortality,  and  subject  to 
the  infirmities  of  the  flesh  and  the 
weaknesses  that  we  have  inherited 
through  a  long  line  of  ancestry,  who 
in  many  respects  have  transgressed  the 
commandments  of  God — notwithstand- 
ing our  frailties,  and  that  with  which 
we  have  to  contend  through  our  en- 
vironment and  the  influences  of  the 
past,  all  eternity  is  before  us.  There 
is  no  end  to  our  existence,  and  there 
will  be  no  end  to  our  advancement. 
Every  person  upon  whim  I  look  in  the 
congregation  this  afternoon  is  immort- 
al. There  will  be  an  opportunity  in 
the  ages  to  come,  if  we  do  not  avail 
ourselves  of  them  in  the  present,  to 
learn  the  mind  and  will  of  our  Eternal 


Father  and  to  come  into  harmony  with 
Him  and  with  His  divine  purposes.  But 
those  who  receive  the  truth  in  this  life, 
who  avail  themselves  of  those  oppor- 
tunities about  which  we  have  heard  this 
afternoon,  who  receive  the  truth  as  it 
is  in  Christ  Jesus,  enlist  under 
His  banner,  fight  the  good  fight  ,of 
faith  and  overcome,  will  obtain  the 
crown  in  the  kingdom  of  the  Father, 
and  forever  and  ever  they  will  be  in 
the  advance  of  those  who  fail  to  ob- 
tain these  blessings,  who  fail  to  be 
obedient  to'  the  Lord  and  are  not  found 
worthy  to  inherit  this  "far  more  and 
eternal  and  exceeding  weight  of  glo- 
ry" which  those  can  attain  to  who 
obey  the  Gospel.  That  is  the  advantage 
of  receiving  the  truth  in  this  present 
state  of  existence.  We  obtain  that 
much  of  a  step  in  advance  of  those  who 
do  not  receive  the  Gospel. 

It  is  very  gratifying  to  us  who  de- 
sire the  salvation  of  mankind,  and 
whose  work  it  is  to  labor  for  their  up- 
lifting, who  have  been  specially  called 
of  God  and  appointed  to  work  under 
the  Captain  of  our  salvation  for  the  re- 
demption of  the  whole  human  race,  to 
know  by  the  revelations  of  God  that  the 
time  will  come,  in  some  future  state  of 
existence  if  not  in  this,  when  every  soul 
that  can  be  redeemed  will  be  brought 
out  of  darkness  and  sorrow,  and  hell, 
and  death,  and  be  placed  where  they 
can  enjoy  existence,  to  glorify  God  and 
obey  His  commandments.  We  do  not 
know  how  long  it  will  take  for  some 
people  to  obtain  this  redemption.  It 
is  certain,  however,  that  justice  will 
claim  its  own.  Our  God  is  a  merciful 
Being.  His  name  is  love.  He  is  full 
of  longsuffering,  kindness  and  charity, 
and  He  desires  the  salvation  of  His 
children.  But  He  governs  Himself  by 
law.  His  word  is  law.  He  lives  by 
the  precepts  which  He  administers  and 
reveals  to  others.  We  shall  find  that 
He  sets  the  example,  as  Jesus  Christ, 
His  Son,  our  Elder  Brother,  did. 
Therefore  there  can  be  no  salvation  for 
the  transgressor  until  he  shall  repent 
and  be  willing  to  be  obedient.  The 
laws  of  God  are  eternal;  they  are  for- 
ever and  ever;  they  are  inflexible;  and 
it  is  only  by  obedience  to  law  that  ex- 
altation can  be  secured.  In  this  con- 
dition we  are  learning  to  be  obedient  to 


ELDER  .CHARLES  W.  PENROSE. 


41! 


law — such  law  as  God  has  revealed; 
also  to  the  wholesome  rules  and  regu- 
lations that  are  established  in  the  gov- 
ernments under  which  we  may  live. 

We  have  been  divinely  charged  with 
the  duty  of  obeying  the  law  of  the  land 
as  well  as  the  laws  of  God.  All 
peop'e  must  eventually  be  brought  into 
obedience  to  law,  in  order  to  be  saved; 
and  their  exaltation,  their  glory,  their 
power  and  dominion,  if  they  have  any, 
will  be  in  proportion  to  their  obedience 
to  those  things  that  God  reveals.  He 
that  cannot  abide  and  obey  the  celes- 
tial law,  cannot  abide  a  celestial  glory. 
That  is  written.  It  is  the  word  of  the 
Lord.  If  we  desire  to  obtain  the  great 
salvation,  if  we  desire  to  obtain  the 
crown,  in  the  presence  of  the  Father, 
if  we  desire  to  have  the  gift  of  eternal 
lives  (which  means  endless  increase  in 
power,  dominion  and  glory  forever),  we 
must  abide  the  conditions  on  which  tlrs 
glory  is  predicated;  we  must  be  obe- 
dient to  the  divine  commandments,  and 
devoted  to  God.  We  must  not  only  be 
baptized  in  water,  but  baptized  into  His 
Spirit,  and  into  the  spirit  of  obedience 
to  Him  in  all  things.  He  that  is  obe- 
dient in  all  things  and  overcometh  all 
things,  shall  inherit. all  things.  All  that 
the  Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto 
him.  But  if  he  will  not  be  obedient,  if 
he  will  not  bow  to  the  laws  which  en- 
title him  to  celestial  glory,  he  must  re- 
ceive that  condition  and  that  measure 
of  glory  in  that  kingdom  the  laws  of 
which  he  is  willing  to  obey.  Therefore, 
we  are  told  that  there  is  also  a  ter- 
restrial glory  and  a  telestial  glory,  and 
there  is  a  kingdom  that  is  not  a  king- 
dom of  glory;  and  he  that  will  not 
abide  law,  he  that  will  not  bow  in 
obedience  to  the  commandments  of  God, 
but  seeks  to  become  a  law  unto  him- 
self, and  altogether  abideth  in  sin,  can- 
not receive  a  kingdom  of  glory  at  all. 
There  will  be  some  who,  because  they 
are  so  self-willed  and  rebellious  and 
stubborn  in  their  acts,  and  will  not 
yield  to  God  or  man,  will  be  ban- 
ished from  the  presence  of  the  Lord  and 
the  glory  of  His  power.  They  will  go 
into  "outer  darkness,  where  there  is 
weeping  and  wailing  and  gnashing  of 
teeth."  How  long?  Until  they  learn 
obedience  by  the  things  which  they 
suffer. 


Thanks  be  to  God,  the  old  crude  idea 
of  an  everlasting  hell  of  fire  and  brim- 
stone and  torment,  out  of  which  there  is 
no  redemption,  has  been  dispelled 
like  the  clouds  of  night  by  the  light 
of  the  millennial  morn  which  has  shone 
forth  from  the  presence  of  our  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  the  Sun  of  righteousness. 
There  will  be  an  opportunity  for  all  the 
sons  and  daughters  of  God— for  they  are 
immortal — at  some  time  to  come  out 
of  darkness,  disobedience,  sorrow,  sin 
and  suffering,  and  find  some  place 
where  they  can  advance,  and  that  ad- 
vancement will  be  forever;  for  they  are 
the  sons  and  daughters  of  God,  and 
there  is  no  end  to  their  existence.  They 
will  all  have  life  in  some  degree.  But 
that  promise  of  eternal  life  which  Jesus 
Christ  said  should  be  given  to  those 
who  are  His  at  His  coming— those  who 
obey  His  commandments,  those  who  en- 
list under  His  banner,  those  that  are 
baptized  into  Christ  and  put  on  Christ 
will  be  fulfilled  in  every  particular 
—they  will  inherit  that  glory  which  He 
promised,  and  the  gift  of  eternal  life, 
or  eternal  lives,  will  be  given  unto  them. 

What  is  that,  different  from  immor- 
tality? Mere  existence  is  not  "life,"  in 
its  full  significance.  There  are  people 
who  have  an  existence  here,  but  some 
parts  of  their  being  are  not  developed. 
Some  people  live  only  for  that  which 
they  eat  and  drink  and  wear,  and  that 
is  the  end  of  it  with  them.  Others  have 
their  mental  faculties  and  their  intel- 
lectual powers  developed;  and  some 
whose  physical  and  intellectual  powers 
are  measurably  developed  are  dead  or 
asleep  spiritually.  They  do  not  live 
fully,  unless  the  spiritual  part  of  their 
being  is  awakened  and  aroused  apd  is 
alive,  susceptible  to  the  influences  that 
come  from  the  Father.  So  in  the  eter- 
nal worlds.  There  will  be  immortality 
to  all  the  sons  and  daughters  of  God, 
whether  they  are  suffering  for  sin  or 
have  been  redeemed;  whether  they  are 
in  the  celestial,  terrestrial  or  telestial 
worlds;  but  only  those  who  attain  to  the 
celestial  glory,  and  the  power  and  do- 
minion and  exaltation,  and  the  gift  of 
everlasting  increase,  wherein  their  pos- 
terity will  be  multiplied  worlds  without 
end,  have  the  real  gift  of  eternal  life. 
All  their  powers  will  be  developed  to 
the  full.    They  will  pattern  after  the 


44 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


works  of  their  Eternal  Father 
and  their  Elder  Brother,  while 
eternal  ages  roll  along,  and 
they  will  be  in  harmony  and  in 
communion  with  them,  and  will  partici- 
pate with  them  in  the  glorious  work 
of  the  extension  of  the  universe  and 
dominion  of  God  throughout  the  vast 
domains  of  space;  and  while  eternal 
ages  go  and  come  they  will  increase 
and  multiply  in  light,  in  wisdom,  in  in- 
telligence, in  knowledge,  in  power,  and 
in  glory,  and  the  extent  of  their  pos- 
sessions and  dominions  in  the  worlds 
that  will  be  created  will  be  from  ever- 
lasting to  everlasting.  This  is  what 
you  and  I  are  striving  to  obtain,  my 
brethren  and  sisters.  One  of  the  things 
to  aid  us  in  attaining  to  this  great  sal- 
vation is  to  labor  for  the  salvation  of 
others. 

I  cannot  prolong  my  remarks.  The 
time  has  expired.  I  did  not  expect  to 
be  called  upon  to  speak  for  a  moment; 
but  I  can  say  this  afternoon  that  I  re- 
joice in  this  great  work.  In  it  are 
all  my  aims  and  ambitions,  if  I  have 
any.  I  love  it  with  all  my  soul.  I  de- 
sire to  labor  in  it  while  I  dwell  on  the 
earth,  and  when  I  pass  away  into  the 
other  world.   I  rejoice  in  the  knowledge 


THIRD 

Sunday,  April  7,  10  a.  m. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

Now  let  us  rejoice  in  the  day  of  salva- 
tion, 

No  longer  as  strangers  on  earth  need 
we  roam. 

Prayer  was  offered   by   Elder  Joseph 
E.  Taylor. 
Singing  by  the  choir: 

Hark!  listen  to  the  trumpeters! 

They  sound  for  volunteers, 
On  Zion's  bright  and  flowery  mount 

Behold  the  officers. 

THE  GENERAL  AUTHORITIES 

were  presented  for  the  votes  of  the  gen- 
eral assembly,  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  as  follows: 

Lorenzo  Snow,  as  Prophet,  Seer  and 
Revelator  and  President  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  in 
all  the  world. 


that  God  has  enlightened  my  soul  and 
given  me  to  understand  the  truth,  to 
some  extent  at  least,  as  it  is  in  Him.  I 
know  this  work  is  His,  and  that  it  will 
prevail.  I  know  it  will  overcome  all 
opposition,  and  stand  and  endure.  I 
know  it  will  bring  about  the  salvation 
of  the  living  and  the  redemption  of  the 
dead,  and  that  all  who  are  faithful  and 
abide  the  conditions,  by  the  power  of 
God  will  be  raised  from  the  dead,  and 
be  clothed  with  the  gift  and  power  of 
eternal  lives  in  His  presence.  I  re- 
joice in  the  teachings  that  we  have 
had.  I  feel  that  we  shall  yet  have  the 
outpouring  of  His  Spirit  during  the 
remainder  of  our  conference.  I  exhort 
my  brethren  and  sisters  to  treasure  up 
in  their  hearts  continually  the  words 
of  eternal  life,  and  to  live  by  them, 
and  bring  these  things  down  to  the 
practice  of  their  every  day  lives,  and 
they  shall  have  joy  in  this  world  and 
salvation,  honor,  glory  and  exaltation 
in  the  world  to  come.  May  God  bless 
us  all  and  enable  us  to  do  this,  for 
Christ's  sake.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 
"We  thank  Thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet." 

Benediction  by  Elder  George  Rey- 
nolds. 


day. 

George  Q.  Cannon,  as  first  counselor 
in  the  First  Presidency. 

Joseph  F.  Smith,  as  second  counselor 
in  the -First  Presidency. 

As  members  of  the  council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles:  Brigham  Young, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  John  Henry  Smith, 
George  Teasdale,  Heber  J.  Grant,  John 
W.  Taylor,  Marriner  W.  Merrill,  An- 
thon  H.  Lund,  Matthias  F.  Cowley, 
Abraham  O.  Woodruff,  Rudger  Clawson 
and  Reed  Smoot. 

The  counselors  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  the  Twelve  Apostles  as 
Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church,  John  Smith. 

First  Seven  Presidents  of  Seventies, 
Seymour  B.  Young,  Christian  D.  Fjeld- 
sted,  Brigham  Henry  Roberts,  George 
Reynolds,  Jonathan  G.  Kimball,  Rulon 
S.  Wells  and  Joseph  W.  McMurrin. 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN 


45 


William  B.  Preston  as  presiding  Bish- 
op, with  Robert  T.  Burton  and  John 
R.  Winder  as  his  first  and  second  coun- 
selors. 

Anthon  H.  Lund  as  Church  Historian 
and  general  Church  recorder. 

As  trustee-in-trust  for  the  body  of 
religious  worshipers  known  as  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  Lorenzo  Snow. 

As  members  of  the  general  Church 
board  '  of  education,  Lorenzo  Snow, 
George  Q.  Cannon,  Willard  Young,  An- 
thon H.  Lund,  James  Sharp,  Joseph  F. 
Smith,  John  Nicholson  and  George  H. 
Brimhall. 

John  Nicholson,  as  clerk  of  the  gen- 
eral Conference. 

All  of  the  voting  was  unanimously 
iiflirmative. 

ELDER  F.   M.  LYMAN. 

The  Spirit  of  God  vs.  the  spirit  of  the  world— The 
true  aim  and  object  in  life — Remember  the 
Lord  in  prosperous  as  well  as  adverse  con- 
ditions—Kighteous  character  of  the  teachings 
of  tue  tlders—  Greatness  of  the  leaders  of 
the  Church. 

I  may  have  some  difficulty,  my  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  in  making  you  hear, 
but  trust  you  will  be  patient  with  me, 
and  that  the  Lord  will  assist  me  in  my 
effort.  I  have  very  greatly  enjoyed 
the  services  in  this  conference,  and  I 
hope  that  the  same  good  Spirit  that 
has  moved  my  brethren  may  be  with 
us  this  morning. 

It  is  an  inspiring  sight  to  look  upon 
the  faces  of  ten  thousand  people,  near- 
ly all  of  whom  are  of  one  faith.  The 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  that  accompanies 
this  work  accomplishes  marvelous 
things  in  the  hearts  of  the  people.  It 
gives  to  us  new  and  addition- 
al sight,  hearing  and  under- 
standing, so  that  we  see,  hear 
and  understand  as  people  in  the 
world  are  unable  to  do.  This  work  is  of 
the  Lord,  and  it  is  only  understood  and 
accomplished  by  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord. 
The  natural  man  is  unable  to  compre- 
hend it.  It  looks  foolish  and  unreason- 
able to  him,  because  it  is  beyond  his 
comprehension.  But  to  the  simplest  one 
who  has  repented  and  been  baptized 
with  water  and  with  fire  and  the  Holy 
Ghost,  this  work  appears  quite  reason- 
able and  natural.    The  hearts  of  the 


Latter-day  Saints  are  becoming  es- 
tablished and  fixed  in  the  service  of  the 
Lord,  just  in  proportion  to  their  de- 
votion and  faithfulness  in  keeping  the 
commandments  of  the  Lord.  It  is  the 
keeping  of  His  commandments  that  de- 
termines that  we  are  His  followers  and 
disciples.  Unless  we  do  keep  His  com- 
mandments, we  are  not  His  disciples, 
though  we  may  bear  the  name.  The 
only  reason  that  there  can  be  found  to- 
day among  the  Latter-day  Saints 
people  who  are  not  quite  set- 
tled and  established,  not  quite 
converted  to  all  the  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel,  is  because  after  their 
repentance  and  baptism  they  have  be- 
come backsliders,  more  or  less  indif- 
ferent, and  have  returned  measurably 
to  the  ways  and  fashions  of  the  world, 
so  that  they  see  and  understand  as  the 
world  does. 

It  would  be  well  for  us  who  are  here  to- 
day, professing  to  be  Latter-day  Saints, 
to  examine  our  own  hearts,  to  discov- 
er whether  we  have  really  been  work- 
ing as  the  Lord  has  required,  or  wheth- 
er we  have  been  indifferent;  whether 
our  hearts  have  been  set  upon  the 
things  of  the  world,  and  whether  we 
love  the  ways  and  the  wealth  of  the 
world  more  than  we  love  to  serve  the 
Lord.  In  partaking  of  the  Sacrament 
we  are  enjoined,  as  the  former-day 
Saints  were,  to  examine  ourselves.  I 
would  like  to  add  to  that  the  injunction 
that  when  we  are  about  to  pray  night 
and  morning,  or  secretly,  and  when  we 
gather  together  in  council  and  in  wor- 
ship, we  should  examine  ourselves,  and 
never  put  our  faces  toward  our  heav- 
enly Father,  in  council  or  in  worship, 
until  we  can  do  so  with  a  firm  deter- 
mination in  our  souls  that  we  will  serve 
Him  with  all  our  hearts.  I  would  like 
us  to  be  impressed  with  this  earnest 
devotion  and  feeling  in  regard  to  the 
service  of  the  Lord;  for  we  are  here  for 
the  purpose  of  serving  Him,  doing  His 
bidding,  and  sustaining  His  servants 
who  preside  over  us.  It  is  a  hard  work 
that  we  have  to  perform.  Therefore,  it 
should  be  the  object  of  our  lives  to  have 
whatever  we  do  tend  to  strengthen  our 
own  faith,  and  the  faith  of  our  families 
and  kindred,  to  uphold  the  hands  of  the 
servants  of  the  Lord,  and  to  sustain 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


and  advocate  the  work  of  the  Lord 
among  men.  It  should  be  our  aim  to 
be  that  peculiar  people  which  the  Lord 
is  determined  to  have  in  the  earth — 
peculiar  because  we  waive  our  own  will 
for  the  will  of  the  Lord,  and  hold  our 
own  selfish  desires  and  personal  prefer- 
ences subject  to  His  requirements.  Ev- 
ery Latter-day  Saint  should  be  just 
such  a  person  as  this,  so  that  when  we 
come  together  in  a  congregation  of  ten 
thousand,  as  we  have  this  morning,  we 
can  be  looked  upon  as  a  very  peculiar 
company  of  people,  united  as  no  people 
'  could  possibly  be  united,  only  under 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  Here 
is  a  congregation  whose  hearts  beat 
as  a  unit,  with  fai  h  in  God,  with 
one  pulsation,  and  filled  with  the 
inspiration  of  the  Lord.  We  see  alike 
in  regard  to  the  authority  of  the  Priest- 
hood and  in  regard  to  the  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel.  We  are  upright  and  con- 
scientious, and  we  are  not  weak  in  the 
faith.  This  is  a  congregation  of  men 
and  women  who  are  strong  in  the  faith, 
who  are  devoted  to  the  Lord,  who  live 
in  the  light  of  His  countenance,  and 
who  attend  to  the  law  which  the  Lord 
has  given  requiring  one-tenth  of  our 
interest  annually.  If  Latter-day  Saints 
neglect  this  law  of  tithing,  they  are 
faulty,  and  lack  oil  in  their  lamps.  The 
Lord  requires  His  people  to  bow  the 
knee  before  Him  every  night  and  morn- 
ing, and  to  remember  Him  in  their  se- 
cret prayers.  Every  Latter-day  Saint 
who  neglects  this  requirement  has  not 
that  supply  of  oil  which  is  necessary  to 
prepare  him  for  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  man.  .  The  Lord  requires  us  to  be 
obedient  to  the  counsels  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  to  look  to  them  for  counsel. 
Every  Latter-day  Saint  who  is  obdur- 
ate in  his  feelings  and  will  not  listen  to 
the  counsels  of  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
shows  a  lack  of  oil.  The  Lord  requires 
that  we  shall  meet  together  on  the  fast 
day,  fasting,  praying,  and  remembering 
our  offerings  for  the  relief  of  the  poor. 
Every  Latter-day  Saint  who  follows  his 
daily  avocation  and  neglects  this  duty 
shows  a  lack  of  oil.  The  Lord  requires 
us  to  love  our  wives,  our  husbands,  our 
children,  and  to  love  our  neighbors.  The 
Latter-day  Saint  who  does  not  do  this 
shows  a  dearth  of  that  oil  that  is  neces- 
sary to  enable  him  to  stand  and  be  pre- 


pared for  the  coming  of  the  Son  of  man. 
The  Lord  requires  us  to  preach  the  Gos- 
pel to  all  the  world,  and  for  this  reason 
above  all  others  He  has  endowed  us 
with  His  divine  authority.  If  we  neg- 
lect to  honor  and  magnify  the  Priest- 
hood, as  we  ought  to  do  every  day  of 
our  lives,  we  evidence  a  lack  of  oil. 

I  would  utter  this  simple  word  of 
warning  to  my  brethren  and  sisters.  I 
wish  that  we  would  repent,  and  remem- 
ber the  Lord.  We  always  remember 
him  when  we  are  sick  and  in  trouble. 
When  we  are  cast  down  and  humiliated, 
we  fly  to  the  Lord  in  our  distress.  I 
want  to  advise  this  congregation,  who 
are  not  sickly  or  invalids,  to  remem- 
ber the  Lord  while  they  are  healthy. 
The  sick  ones  remember  the  Lord.  They 
receive  the  ordinance  of  anointing 
with  oil  and  the  laying  on  of  hands, 
and  the  prayer  of  faith  is  offered  up 
that  they  may  be  healed.  But  when 
we  are  strong  and  well  I  fear  that  we 
are  inclined  to  forget  the  Lord.  When 
we  are  fairly  independent  and  success- 
ful financially,  I  wonder  if  we  do  not 
think  that  we  are  able  to  walk  alone 
and  to  take  care  of  ourselves.  When  our 
sight  and  our  hearing  are  good,  when 
we  are  not  palsied,  or  disordered  in  any 
way,  I  wonder  if  we  do  not  lie  down 
at  night  and  get  up  in  the  morning, 
work  hard  all  day  and  attend  strictly 
to  our  own  affairs,  and  forget  the  Lord. 
Who  should  remember  the  Lord?  The 
hearty,  the  healthy,  the  vigorous.  Why? 
Because  their  favors  from  the  Lord  are 
superior  to  the  favors  of  others.  When 
a  man  can  see,  he  should  never  forget 
to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  sight  of 
his  eyes.  A  man  should  never  forget 
to  thank  the  Lord  for  the  judgment  and 
wisdom  He  endows  him  with.  His 
heart  should  go  out  in  gratitude  to  the 
Father  that  he  is  so  abundantly 
blessed.  His  sympathies,  too,  should 
go  out,  as  a  strong,  able  man,  to  those 
who  are  less  fortunate  than  himself. 

We  are  fairly  faithful,  but  we  should 
be  more  faithful  and  more  devoted  to 
the  Lord.  We  should  be  more  careful 
and  conscientious  in  the  performance 
of  our  duties,  so  that  nothing  that  is 
required  of  us  shall  be  overlooked.  Let 
every  man  who  has  received  the  Priest- 
hood, let  every  woman  who  has  a  hus- 
band bearing  the  Priesthood,  let  every 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN 


47 


family  that  is  presided  over  by  a  man 
bearing   the   Priesthood,   rejoice  and 
thank  the  Lord  and  sing  praises  to  His 
name  every  day,  for  the  blessings  He 
bestows  upon  them.    If  there  are  sick 
among  us,  let  them  call  for  the  Elders 
of  the  Church,  as  we  read  in  the  scrip- 
tures, and  let  the    Elders    pray  over 
them,    anointing   them   with   oil,  and 
the  prayer  of  faith  shall  heal  the  sick. 
How  simple    these     ordinances  are! 
How      simple      the      ordinance  of 
baptism,   of  confirmation,     of  ordina- 
tion     to      the       holy  Priesthood! 
How    simple    the    prayers     that  we 
are  directed  to  offer,  and  how  pleased 
the  Lord  is  when  we  approach  Him  in 
the  simplest  forms  of  speech!  How 
pleased  the  Lord  is  when  we  remember 
Him  in  our  thoughts  and  feelings;  and 
when  our  hearts  go  out  to  the  Father 
in  gratitude,  how  the  inspiration  of  the 
Lord  vibrates  in  our  souls!    How  grate- 
ful we  ought  to  be  to  the  Lord  that 
He  has  planted  in  our  souls  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth;  that  we  have  been 
enabled  to  understand  that  He  is  indeed 
our  Father,  that  we  are  His  children, 
and  that  our  Elder  Brother'  Jesus  is 
the  Son  of  God,  the  Savior  and  Redeem- 
er of  the  world!  How  grateful  we  ought 
to  be  that  we  were  permitted  to  come 
upon  the  earth  in  this  last  dispensation 
of  the  fulness  of  times!    What  a  won- 
derful favor  this  has  been  to  us,  that 
we  were  preserved  and  held  in  reserve 
until  this  auspicious  time,  when  we 
could  labor  for  our  own  salvation  and 
for  the  salvation  of  our  dead  kindred! 
What   a   wonderful  blessing   that  we 
could  be  the  builders  of  temples;  that 
we  could  come  in  the  day  when  the 
Prophet  came,  when  the  Lord  appeared 
and  made  Himself  known  to  the  world, 
as  He  had  not  been  known  for  eighteen 
hundred  years!    How  necessary  it  was 
that  the  peoples  of  the  world  should 
have  a  living  witness,  the  witness  of  a 
man  who  had  been  permitted  to  see 
the  Father  and  the  Son,  and  who  had 
the  testimony  in  his  heart  in  regard  to 
the  Father  and  the  Son  by  the  inspira- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost.    We  may  not 
all  be  allowed  to  see  the  Father,  yet  we 
are  all  enjoined  to  know  the  Father 
and  the  Son,  and  to  have  the  testimony 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  abiding  in  our  hearts 
in  regard  to  the  Father  and  the  Son; 


for  when  we  know  them  we  can  rely 
confidently  upon  the  doctrines  that  are 
taught  us  and  upon  the  promises  that 
have  been  made  to  us,  and  the  more 
we  become  acquainted  with  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  the  more  we  become  es- 
tablished, and  the  more  we  comprehend 
the  things  of  God.    Governors,  judges, 
kings    and    queens,     and    the  great 
philosophers    of    the    world    do  not 
know     these     things.      The  simplest 
Latter-day  Saint  in  the  Church  has  in- 
spiration and  light  that  the  philoso- 
phers and    the  greatest    among  men 
have  not  tasted.   There  is  a  measure  of 
light     and     inspiration     that  comes 
through  the  Holy  Ghost  to  those  who 
serve  the  Lord  that  the  natural  man, 
independent  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  is  not 
endowed  with.    It  is  the  possession  of 
this  Spirit  that  makes  us  a  peculiar 
people;  and  the  reason  we  are  not  more 
different  from  the  rest  of  the  world 
than  we  are  is  because  we  do  not  live 
according  to  the  light  and  inspiration 
of  the  Holy    Ghost  as  we  ought  to  do. 
Our    fallen  natures    have    too  great 
power  over  us,  and  our  weaknesses  re- 
strain us  and  turn  us  aside  from  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  the  Lord  as 
we  ought  to  do.    We  hardly  expect  to 
be  perfect  in  this  life;  but  we  do  want 
to  be  perfect.    That  is  the  object  of  our 
being — to  be  perfect  as  our  Father  in 
heaven  is  perfect;  to  do  as  the  Son  of 
God  has  done,  to  live  as  He  lives,  in  the 
light  and  inspiration  of  the  Lord,  to 
serve  the  Lord,   to  be  His  sons  and 
daughters,  to  keep  His  commandments, 
to  know  Him  as  He  is,  and   have  thj 
inspiration  and  light  of  His  counten- 
ance always    in    our    hearts,    in  our 
homes,  and  in  all  our  operations  and  la- 
bors of  life.   We  are  not  here  simply  to 
exist,  simply  to  provide  bread  and  but- 
ter, to  eat  and  drink,  to  wear  clothing, 
to  be  comfortable,  to  sleep  and  to  arise, 
to  labor,  and  the  like — that  is  not  the 
sole  object  of  our  coming  here;  but  we 
come  here  to  be  developed,  to  be  en- 
larged, and  to  become  like  our  Father, 
following  the  example  set  by  the  Son  of 
God;  to  not  set  up  our  own  wills,  and 
determine  to  have  our  own  way  and  do 
as  we  please,  but  to  do  the  will  of  the 
Lord,  and  to  obtain  the  inspiration  of 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  that  we  may  not 
be  led  astray,  and  that  the  evil  influ- 


48 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


erices  and  spirits  which  move  among 
the  children  of  men  may  not  take  hold 
of  us,  but  that  we  may  know  the  spirits 
and  not  be  deceived  by  them.  There  is 
an  endless  variety  of  spirits  in  the 
world  today,  and  we  have  need  to  be 
very  cautious  that  we  be  not  overcome; 
for  Satan  would  like  to>  destroy  us  and 
this  work  in  which  we  are  engaged:.  He 
uses  agencies  to  blind  the  eyes  of  the 
people,  and  good  men  are  led  to  op- 
pose this  Church  and  its  doctrines  be- 
cause they  do  not  comprehend  them. 
There  are  thousands  of  people  pitted 
against  this  work  who,  if  they  but  knew 
that  they  were  persecuting  the  Saints 
of  God,  would  rather  sacrifice  their 
lives  than  continue  to  do  so.  They  are 
conscientious  and  honest  people,  but 
blinded  by  the  insinuations  of  Satan, 
who  has  made  them  to  feel  that  if  this 
Church  is  allowed  to  prosper  the  world 
will  be  demoralized  and  brought  into 
wickedness  and  corruption,  and  for  that 
reason  they  work  against  us. 

You  Latter-day  Saints  here,  ten 
thousand  strong,  have  you  ever  been 
taught  by  the  Elders  of  Israel  to  be 
wicked?  Have  you  ever  been  led  by 
them  into  wickedness,  and  encouraged 
in  any  kind  of  corruption?  Have  you 
been  taught  that  you  should  be  enemies 
to  the  world,  or  enemies  to  your  neigh- 
bors? Do  you  persecute  your  neigh- 
bors? Are  you  disturbing  their  peace? 
Are  you  trying  to  rob  and  injure  them? 
Or  are  you  taught  to  be  conscientious 
and  honest,  and  to  treat  your  brother, 
though  he  does  not  believe  as  you  do, 
kindly?  Have  you  not  been  taught  to 
deal  honestly  with  all  men,  to  love  all 
men,  and  to  seek  their  salvation?  You 
are  my  witnesses  here  today  that  we 
have  not  taught  you  to  be  wicked.  You 
have  not  been  led  into  wickedness.  But 
you  have  been  taught  and  exhorted  all 
the  day  long  in  harmony  with  the  doc- 
trines that  are  published  to  the  world 
by  the  Latter-day  Saints,  in  harmony 
with  the  Gospel  as  laid  down  in  the  Bi- 
ble. In  obedience  to  the  principles  of 
that  Gospel  the  testimony  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  has  been  planted  in  your  hearts; 
and  while  that  abides,  you  love  your 
neighbor,  you  love  your  enemies,  and 
would  do  them  good,  and  not  injury; 
you  would  seek  for  their  salvation,  for 
their  happiness  and  peace,   and  you 


could  not  be  persuaded  to  do  a  thing: 
that  was  wrong.    You  could  not  be  led 
into  stealing,  into  thieving,  into  lying, 
into     deception     and     fraud.  You. 
would    not    tolerate    it    in    the  lead- 
ers    of     Israel.       If     you  detected 
dishonesty  in  them;  you  would  expose 
it  in  a  moment;  for  you  have  been  too 
well  trained  and  instructed  under  your 
local  authorities  as  well  as  under  the 
general  authorities  of  the  Church,  and 
you  know  that  it  is  necessary  for  you 
to  live  lives  of  purity  and  righteous- 
ness.   You  know  that  your  mission  in 
the  world  is  for  the  salvation  of  the 
souls  of  the  children  of  men,  including 
your  own  souls.    You  are  not  allowed 
to  be  wicked  and  corrupt.    If  you  are  a 
thief  we  deal  with  you  for  your  fel- 
lowship.   Dishonesty,  unvirtuous  con- 
duct, lying  and  thieving  are  not  toU 
erated  among  the   Latter-day  Saints. 
We  have  not  gone  into  the  world  to 
gather  people  who  indulge  in  such  evil 
practices;  but  we  have  labored  all  the 
time    to    gather    the  honest,  the  con- 
scientious, the  upright,  and  those  who 
would  be  obedient  and  pure  in  their 
lives.    If  they  are  not  willing  to  sub- 
mit to  these  requirements,  we  do  not 
want  them.    We  cannot  save  them  in 
their  sins;  they  must  repent  and  re- 
form. If  they  do  not  do  this,  the  Gospel 
has    no    chance    to    save  them.  The 
atonement  wrought  out  by  the  Savior 
has  relieved  us  of  the  sin  of  our  first 
parents,  and  has  brought  us  into  com- 
munion with  the  Lord;  but  we  are  re- 
sponsible for  our  own  transgressions. 
We  must  repent  of  them.     Baptism  is 
unavailing  without  repentance.    Faith  , 
that  does  not  produce  repentance  is  un- 
availing.   But  the  faith  that  has  been 
restored  to  us  through  the  mission  of 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  a  vital 
faith.  It  moves  men  to  repentance  and 
reformation,  and  to  keeping  the  com- 
mandments of  the  Lord.    It  opens  the- 
way  that  we  may  know  the  Father  and 
the  Son;  that  we  may  know  the  Proph- 
ets, and  that  we  may  comprehend  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel.    Having  this 
faith,  this  congregation  could  not  be  de- 
ceived.   No  man  could  stand  here  and 
teach  falsehood  without  being  detected. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  as  sensitive 
to    the   movements   and  operations  of 
the     Spirit     of     the     Lord     as  the- 


ELDER  FRANCIS  M.  LYMAN. 


49/ 


thermometer  is  to  the  presence 
of  heat  and  cold.  You  know  in  a  mo- 
ment when  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is 
coming-  upon  you.  If  the  power  of  Satan 
were  to  he  manifested  in  this  congrega- 
tion, it  would  be  felt  in  a  moment. 
Every  person  in  the  house  would  sense 
it  from  crown  to  toe. 

The  Lord  has  thus  been  training  and 
schooling  us  since  the  days  of  the 
Prophet.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
fulfilled  his  mission  most  grandly,  and 
he  laid  down  his  life  for  the  testimony 
of  Jesus.  The  Prophet  Brigham 
built  upon  the  foundation  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  laid,  under  the  direction 
of  the  Lord.  The  Prophet  Brigham  was 
the  servant  and  lion  of  the  Lord  in 
the  midst  of  His  people.  The  Lord 
counseled  and  led  him;  and  the  result  of 
his  labors  and  the  inspiration  and  great 
power  which  God  gave  him  is  seen  on 
every  hand.  President  John  Taylor  and 
President  Wilford  Woodruff  were  men 
of  God — men  who  never  showed  the 
white  feather,  who  were  always  true 
and  devoted  to  the  Lord  in  every  im- 
pulse of  their  souls.  President  Snow, 
who  is  with  us  today,  is  a  worthy  suc- 
cessor to  those  who  have  gone  before. 
The  Lord  has  been  with  President 
Snow.  His  mission  has  been  a  remark- 
able one.  The  mission  of  each  of  the 
chiefs  of  this  Church  has  been  empha- 
sized by  some  very  important  work. 
President  Snow  is  to  live  to  see  this 
people  made  free,  and  relieved  of  their 
embarrassments,  financial  and  other- 
wise. There  is  a  stride  being  made  by 
this  Church  today  that  has  never  he- 
fore  been  made  in  its  history.  We  are 
advancing,  we  are  improving  and  gain- 
ing strength  and  power  day  by  day. 
The  Lord  is  with  His  people.  The  Gos- 
pel is  being  preached  as  never  before. 
Nations  that  have  not  heard  the  Gos- 
pel are  to  hear  it.  And  this  adminis- 
tration of  President  Snow  shall  be  made 
remarkable,  as  all  the  others  have  been. 
What  peculiar  strength  and  power  have 
we  noticed  in  any  one  of  the  leaders  of 
Israel?  Have  they  been  uncommon 
men?  No,  except  as  the  Lord  has  made 
them  uncommon.  A  remarkable  work 
was  accomplished  by  the  Prophet  Jo- 
s  ph,  though  he  died  before  he  was  forty 
years  of  age.  He  laid  the  foundation  of 


this  great  work,  which  is  to  cover 
the  earth,  in  a  few  years.  He  was  a. 
young  and  inexperienced  man;  but  the 
Lord  was  with  him.  He  saw  the  Father 
and  the  Son;  he  was  inspired  of  the 
Holy  Ghost,  and  was  among  the  great- 
est of  Prophets;  in  fact,  there  has  been 
none  greater  on  this  earth,  save  the  Son 
of  God  himself.  The  greatest  dispensa- 
tion ever  committed  to  man  upon  the 
earth  was  opened  up  by  the  Prophet 
Joseph  in  1830.  The  Lord  was  with  him, 
and  He  has  been  with  his  successors. 
Not  a  man  will  ever  stand  in  his  exalt- 
ed place  and  station,  as  President  Lo- 
renzo Snow  does  today,  who  is  not  most 
thoroughly  proven,  and  who  has  not 
demonstrated  by  his  life  that  he  loves 
the  Lord  in  preference  to  all  else,  so> 
that  God  can  handle  and  direct  him  in 
leading  Israel.  That  is  what  the  Lord 
can  do  with  President  Lorenzo  Snow. 
It  is  what  the  Lord  can  do  with  Presi- 
dent George  Q.  Cannon.  It  is  what  the 
Lord  can  do  with  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith.  It  is  what  the  Lord  can  do  with 
these  Apostles  whom  you  have  voted 
for  today  to  be  prophets,  seers  and 
revelators.  This  Church  will  never  be 
without  prophets,  seers  and  revelators, 
to  stand  at  its  head,  and  the 
vicegerent  will  stand  as  the  representa- 
tive of  the  Lord  and  speak  for  the 
whole  Church.  The  Apostles  hold  the 
keys  of  the  power  of  God  in  the  earth, 
and  the  Lord  enables  them  to  turn 
those  keys  and  give  authority  to  men  to 
open  the  door  of  the  Gospel  to  the  na- 
tions of  the  earth,  that  the  purposes  of 
the  Lord  may  be  fulfilled  in  the  earth 
preparatory  to  the  coming  of  the  Son 
of  man.  Not  only  these  Apostles,  but 
these  presiding  Seventies,  the  presid- 
ing High  Priests  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion, 
and  the  Bishops  of  wards — these  men 
are  all  endowed  with  Priesthood  and 
authority  from  God  for  the  ministry  en- 
trusted to  them.  Blessed  be  the  Bishop 
that  takes  care  of  his  little  ward,  for 
his  glory  and  exaltation  shall  be  equal 
to  any  man's.  A  man  who  labors  and  is 
successful  in  saving  souls,  and  who 
by  his  example  encourages,  strength- 
ens and  stimulates  them  and  leads 
them  back  into  the  presence  of  God, 
oh,  what  honor  will  be  conferred  upon 
that  man!  The  posterity  of  those  souls 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


will  rise  up  and  call  him  blessed  before 
the  Lord. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  can  we  af- 
ford to  be  indifferent  and  neglectful, 
listless  and  foolish,  so  late  in  the  day 
as  this?  for  it  is  announced  to  us  that 
the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  is  near 
at  hand.  O!  that  we  will  serve  and 
honor  the  Lord  and  be  ready  at  His 
coming;  that  the  door  shall  not  be  shut 
against  us,  but  that  there  shall  be  oil 
in  our  lamps,  and  we  be  well  pre- 
pared. But  not  a  man  or  woman  can 
have  the  necessary  oil  and  preparation 
who  hath  not  earned  it  by  his  or  her 
own  devoted  service  to  the  Lord.  And 
we  have  not  a  moment  to  be  careless. 
Seek  the  Lcrd  and  serve  Him  every 
day  of  your  lives.  Then  if  you  die  be- 
fore the  coming  of  the  Son  of  Man  you 
shall  see  Him  when  you  go  to  the  other 
side,  and  you  shall  be  welcome  there. 
Let  us  be  ready  all  the  time,  and  let 
us  labor  with  devotion  and  faithfulness. 
Never  mind  what  others  do;  for  me,  I 
must  serve  the  Lord,  I  must  honor  and 
serve  Him  with  all  my  might  and 
strength,  in  order  that  I  may  be  re- 
deemed and  saved  in  His  presence. 

God  bless  all  Israel.  I  thank  you,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  you  have 
come  to  this  conference.  It  is  a  blessed 
conference!  The  word  of  the  Lord  has 
been  freely  given;  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  has  been  upon  the  brethren;  it 
has  been  rich  upon  you,  and  it  will  in- 
crease upon  you  in  your  homes,  the 
Lord  will  sustain  and  strengthen  you. 
Zion  will  triumph,  her  numbers  will  in- 
crease, and  where  she  now  has  five  or 
six  hundred  wards,  towns  and  villages, 
there  shall  be  five  or  six  thousand 
towns  and  villages;  where  there  are 
four  temples  now  being  occupied  by  the 
Latter-day  Saints,  marking  them  as  a 
people  unlike  any  other  people  in  the 
world,  there  will  be  forty  temples,  fifty 
temples,  hundreds  of  temples  all  over 
the  land,  that  shall  occupy  the  labors  of 
the  faithful  through  the  Millennium. 
That  God  may  grant  us  to  live  to  see 
these  things  accomplished — or,  if  we  go 
before,  that  we  may  go  to  Him  ap- 
proved, that  it  may  be  said  of  us. 
"Well,  done,  good  and  faithful  servant, 
enter  into  the  joy  of  thy  Lord,"  is  my 
prayer,  through  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  EDWARD  H.  SNOW. 

My  brethern  and  sisters,  I  appreci- 
ate very  much  the  privilege  which 
President  Snow  has  offorded  me  of 
addressing  you  at  this  conference  for 
a  few  moments.  I  have  greatly  en- 
joyed the  spirit  of  the  conference,  and 
perhaps  can  appreciate  more  than  the 
great  majority  of  you  the  opportunity 
of  once  more  associating  with  Latter- 
day  Saints  and  partaking  of  the  feel- 
ing of  fraternity  and  unity  which  is 
so  characteristic  of  the  Saints  of  God 
wherever  they  may  be. 

I  have  been  reflecting  upon  the  great 
fundamental  truths  which  Apostle 
Lyman  has  just  been  expounding  to  the 
saints.  I  am  afraid  that  we  hear  them  so 
often  that  their  true  import  and  great 
significance  to  us  is  somewhat  blunted; 
but  I  desire  to  testify,  that  it  is  these 
great  truths  and  a  living  faith  in  them 
that  make  of  Mormonism  the  great, 
potent  factor  which  it  is  in  the  religious 
world  today.  As  a  sclent  force  the 
truths  of  the  Gospel  are  permeating 
society  and  finding  an  abiding  place  in 
the  hearts  of  many  honest  people.  The 
freedom  of  intelligent  obedience  to  law 
to  order,  to  progress,  is  something  that 
is  startling  to  the  world;  and  as  they 
begin  to  comprehend  that  we  are  not  a 
race  of  slaves,  but  a  free,  highminded 
and  noble  people,  who  fear  God  only 
and  honor  the  priesthood  and  those  who 
hold  it,  their  regard  for  us  as  a  people 
increases.  To  my  mind,  the  Latter-day 
Saints  ought  to  strive  for  this  freedom 
We  ought  to  live  above  the  law;  to  en- 
joy its  benefits  and  blessings,  and  not 
be  enslaved  to  any  law  of  the  Gospel, 
but  to  render  to  it  an  intelligent  obed- 
ience, testing  it  for  ourselves  by  prac- 
ticing it;  for  the  day  is  coming  when 
the  civilization  of  the  wrorld,  with  all 
its  allurements  and  fascinations,  will  be 
upon  us,  and  we  must  be  able  to  resist 
it.  We  must  be  able  to  let  radiate 
from  our  souls  the  principles  of  the 
Gospel,  and  instead  of  being  over- 
come, overcome  ourselves,  and  our  en- 
vironments, and  be  a  living  well  of  wa- 
ter, so  to  speak,  springing  up  unto  ever- 
lasting life,  impressing  all  those  with 
whom  we  come  in  contact  that  we  do 
verily  know,  and  we  are  living  expo- 
nents of,  the  fundamental  truths  of  the 


ELDER  LOUIS  A.  KEL.SCH. 


51 


Gospel  of  our  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ.  Then  we  will  be  individually  a 
force  for  good,  and  as  a  unit  of  the 
great  aggregation  composing  this 
Church,  will  reflect  these  truths.  In 
this  way  we  will  become  missionaries  in 
very  deed.  The  Elders  of  Israel  who 
go  forth  into  the  world  are,  by 
way  of  contrast,  as  a  light  upon  a  hill; 
but  when  they  return  the  stimulus  to 
action  is  removed,  and  they  become 
lost,  as  it  were,  in  the  great  body  of  the 
Church.  Bishops  and  Presidents  of 
Stakes  can  do  much  to  alleviate  this 
condition  that  is  so  much  complained 
of,  if  they  will  keep  these  young  men 
"in  the  harness,"  and  let  them  know 
that  they  are  not  lost  sight  of,  and  that 
their  mission  is  not  ended.  I  desire  to 
testify  that  the  Eastern  States  mission 
has  produced  young  men  who  are  cap- 
able of  good  work.  There  they  have 
been  made  considerable  of;  they  have 
been  placed  in  position;  and  when  they 
return,  if  their  services  are  not  sought 
after  by  the  local  authorities,  they 
sometimes  become  indifferent,  and  re- 
sults that  are  to  be  deplored  follow. 

I  pray  God's  blessing  upon  all  Israel, 
and  especially  upon  the  youth,  that 
they  may  not  prove  a  disappointment 
to  their  noble  sires  who  have  done  so 
much  to  establish  the  work  and  make 
possible  the  progress  that  characterizes 
the  Church  today.  Amen. 

ELDER  LOUIS  A.  KELSCH. 

My  heart  rejoices  this  morning  in 
having  the  privilege  of  standing  before 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  and  bear- 
ing testimony  of  the  great  work  which 
our  Father  in  heaven  has  established 
upon  the  earth.  I  thank  Him  from  the 
bottom  of  my  heart  that  He  has  per- 
mitted me  to  be  associated  with  you, 
and  that  I  have  been  counted  worthy  to 
receive  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in 
these  the  last  days.  I  thank  Him  for 
the  Holy  Priesthood  which  He  has  giv- 
en unto  me,  and  that  I  have  had  the 
privilege  of  going  forth  among  the  chil- 
dren of  men  and  declaring  unto  them 
this  great  and  glorious  message  which 
God  has  again  restored  to  the  earth.  I 
thank  Him  for  the  knowledge  of  this 
work  which  He  has  given  me;  for  I  can 
testify  unto  you  truthfully  that  I  do 


know  that  this  work  is  of  God,  and  not 
of  man.  Every  man  who  has  not  sinned 
too  much  can  find  out  this  truth  for 
himself.  Our  Master,  the  Savior,  has 
said  that  he  that  will  do  the  will  of 
His  Father  shall  know  of  the  doctrine, 
whether  it  be  of  God  or  of  man.  So  I 
can  say,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
every  man  and  woman  can  know  for 
tnemselves  in  these  last  days  whether 
Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet  or  not.  I 
know  that  he  was  from  the  abundance 
of  evidence  and  testimonies  which  I 
have  received  during  the  time  of  my 
ministry  among  the  nations  of  the 
earth.  I  rejoice  exceedingly  in  having 
the  privilege  of  being  numbered 
among  the  humble  servants  of  God  who 
have  been  sent  forth  and  are  being  sent 
forth  to  the  nations  of  the  earth.  I  de- 
sire to  do  my  duty,  to  serve  God  and 
to  keep  His  commandments  all  the 
days  of  my  life;  and  I  can  do  it  with 
His  heip. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  to  you  that  the 
Northern  States  mission  is  in  a  very 
prosperous  condition  at  the  present 
time.  Tour  sons  who  are  laboring 
with  us  are  humble;  they  are 
men  c£  God;  they  are  seeking  to  do 
His  will;  their  labors  are  being 
blessed  and  made  fruitful;  and  at  the 
present  time  it  looks  as  if  this  season 
will  be  more  prosperous  than  any 
other  season,  notwithstanding  the  num- 
ber of  the  Elders  has  been  greatly  re- 
duced. I  thank  my  Heavenly  Father 
that,  notwithstanding  I  have  spent  a 
few  years  in  the  Northern  States  mis- 
sion, I  now  have  the  privilege  of  ac- 
companying my  brethren  who  have 
been  called  to  Japan.  I  consider  it  a 
great  honor.  I  am  by  no  means  tired 
of  the  work.  I  rejoice  in  it.  I  want 
to  increase  in  knowledge  and  wisdom. 
All  of  us  should  seek  for  knowledge, 
and  to  have  it  increased  within  us,  that 
we  may  be  strengthened  in  our  faith 
and  prepared  for  the  great  changes 
that  will  come  upon  us.  We  must  learn, 
my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  be  obedient 
unto  God  the  Eternal  Father  and  His 
Son  Jesus  Christ.  We  must  learn  to 
be  one,  even  as  He  and  the  Father  are 
one.  Jesus  prayed,  "Holy  Father, keep 
through  thine  own  name  those  whom 
thou  hast  given  me,  that  they  may  be 
one,  as  we  are."    "Neither  pray  I  for 


52 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


these  alone,  but  for  them  also  which 
shall  believe  on  me  through  their  word; 
that  they  all  may  be  one."  Now,  we 
believe  the  words  of  Jesus,  and  also 
the  words  of  His  Apostles  who  were 
with  Him  in  His  ministry.  We  also 
believe  in  the  words  of  the  servants  of 
God  who  have  been  raised  up  in  these 
last  days;  for  they  are  just  as  true 
and  faithful.  We  are  commanded  to 
live  by  every  word  that  proceedeth 
from  the  mouths  of  the  servants  of 
God,  and  I  believe  in  them.  I  intend, 
with  the  help  of  the  Lord,  to  keep  eve- 
ry commandment  which  God  has 
given.  May  the  Lord  bless  us  in  our 
endeavors  to  spread  righteousness  in 
the  earth,  and  may  we  have  power  to 
save  men  and  women,  is  my  prayer 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

The  choir  and  congregation  sang  a 
portion  of  the  hymn  which  begins: 

"The  Spirit  of  God  like  a  Are  is  burn- 
ing." 

Benediction  by  Elder  Heber  J.  Grant. 


AT  THE  ASSEMBLY  HALL. 

The  Tabernacle  being  insufficient  to 
accommodate  the  great  mass  of  people 
in  attendance,  an  overflow  meeting  was 
held  in  the  Assembly  hall.  Elder  Heber 
J.  Grant,  of  the  quorum  of  Apostles, 
presiding,  at  2  p.  m. 

The  choir  sang  the  hymn  which  com- 
mences: 

"Come,  come,  ye  Saints." 

Opening  prayer  by  Elder  Edward 
Woolley. 

Singing: 

"To  Him  who  made  the  world." 

ELDER  FRANK  Y.  TAYLOR. 

I  have  seldom,  if  ever,  listened  to  ad- 
dresses that  so  impressed  me  as  have 
the  words  given  through  the  servants 
of  the  Lord  during  this  conference.  It 
teaches  that  when  brethren  are  called 
to  important  positions  in  the  Church 
and  Kingdom  of  God,  by  authority  of 
our  Heavenly  Father  they  truly 
are  clothed  with  the  spirit  of  their  mis- 


sion and  calling.  To  illustrate  this 
thought:  A  number  of  years  ago  I  was 
on  a  trip  with  one  of  the  younger 
Apostles  who  had  been  ordained  quite 
recently  to  that  position.  I  thought  he 
was  quite  a  good  man,  but  when  he 
was  called,  the  idea  ran  through  my 
mind:  "I  wonder  if  he  is  the  right 
man  in  the  right  place  to  fill  this  most 
important  calling?"  However,  I  ac- 
cepted the  will  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
in  the  matter,  and  sustained  him  in  my 
heart.  When  I  went  off  on  this  trip, 
there  came  an  occasion  where  it  re- 
quired the  best  kind  of  judgment,  and 
where  it  seemed  like  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  alone  could  remove  the  difficulty 
that  seemed  to  be  in  the  way  of  this 
young  man,  and  the  query  ran  through 
my  mind,  when  the  question  came  up, 
as  to  how  th~!  matter  was  to  be  de- 
cided, how  he  would  be  able  to  do  it. 
But  when  he  stood  up  and  decided  that 
question,  and  I  observed  the  manner  in 
which  he  decided  it,  the  wisdom  used 
and  how  he  maintained  the  dignity  of 
the  position  he  occupied,  then  I  said, 
"truly  the  Lord  does  clothe  His  people 
with  the  spirit  of  their  calling  when 
they  are  called  by  the  authority  of  our 
Heavenly  Father.  I  have  learned  to  re- 
spect and  to  love  that  young  man  be- 
cause of  the  spirit  with  which  he  mag- 
nifies the  position  he  occupies." 

I  frequently  think  that  we  look  a  long 
way  for  the  teachings  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord.  We  forget  that  God  has 
given  us  Prophets  and  Apostles  to  be  in 
our  own  midst.  We  sometimes  think 
comparatively  too  much  of  the  Prophets 
of  ancient  times.  While  they  are  good 
and  of  great  value  to  us,  yet  we  have 
Apostles  and  Prophets  in  our  day  just 
as  worthy  of  our  appreciation.  We 
have  men  inspired  to  give  us  the  word 
of  the  Lord  when  we  seek  for  it.  The 
truths  these  brethren  express  are  in- 
spired of  our  Heavenly  Father.  We 
should  be  careful  not  to  reject  the  word 
of  God  which  comes  to  us  through  such 
men.  I  testify  that  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God,  and  that 
the  Prophets  who  have  followed  after 
him  were  his  legal  successors,  and  that 
we  have  in  our  midst  today  Prophets 
and  Apostles  with  the  same  authority 
that  existed  in  ancient  times. 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  SMART. 


53 


ELDER  WILLIAM  H.  SMART. 

I  feel  honored  of  the  Lord,  as  His 
servant,  in  having  this  great  privilege 
of  addressing  you  in  this  conference 
overflow  meeting. 

I  will  read  these  words  of  the  Lord 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  which  are 
found  in  the  64th  section  of  the  Book 
of  Doctrine  &  Covenants: 

'Behold,  the  Lord  requireth  the  heart 
snd  the  willing  mind,  and  the  willing 
and  obedient  shall  eat  the  good  of  the 
land  if  Zion  in  these  last  days,  and  the 
rebellious  shall  be  cut  off  out  of  the 
land  of  Zion  and  shall  be  sent  away 
and  shall  not  inherit  the  land;  for  ver- 
ily I  tay  that  the  rebellious  are  not  of 
the  blood  of  Ephraim,  wherefore  they 
shall  be  plucked  out."  *  *  *  "For  be- 
hold, I  say  unto  you  that  Zion  shall 
flourish  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall 
be  upon  her,  and  she  shall  be  an  ensign 
unto  the  people,  and  there  shall  come 
unto  her  out  of  every  nation  under 
heaven,  and  the  day  shall  come  when 
the  nations  of  the  earth  shall  tremble 
because  of  her  and  shall  fear  because 
of  her  terrible  ones." 

I  felt  impressed  with  this  which  has 
been  given  unto  us  of  the  Lord,  dur- 
ing the  time  which  the  brethren  have 
been  speaking  to  us.    They  have  borne 
very  heavily  upon  the  subject  of  obedi- 
ence and  giving  ourselves  wholly  un- 
to the  Lord.    My  mind  goes  back  when 
I  contemplate  this  principle  of  obedi- 
ence, to  that  which  we  learn  in  the 
Pearl  of  Gieat  Price,  when  in  the  coun- 
cils     of      heaven      the  foundations 
of     the      earth     and     the  building 
thereof     were     taken     into  considera- 
tion.  Two  plans  were  laid  before  the 
councils,   and   because   of   the  humble 
and    obedient   spirit   that   was  shown 
in  Jesus  Christ,  He  was  chosen  to  carry 
out  that  plan,  which  His  Father  ap- 
proved, and  Satan  rebelled  because  the 
trust  was  given  unto  his  more  meek 
brother  Jesus.     When  this  earth  was 
formed  and  Adam  was  placed  thereon 
with  his  wife  Eve,  we  find  that  in  their 
children   there  were  two   spirits  that 
were  exemplified  in  the  children — obe- 
dience and  disobedience;  the  giving  of 
the  heart  unto  God  on  the  one  side  and 
on  the  other  side  the  individual  becom- 
ing a  law  unto  himself.    Abel  offered 
up  unto  God  a  sacrifice   in  righteous- 
ness, while  his  brother  Cain  did  not  so. 
Abel's  sacrifice  was  accepted    of  .  the 


Lord,  while  Cain's  was  rejected;  and 
as  we  come  down  in  the  stream  of 
time,  no  mor'  beautiful  example  of 
perfect  and  simple  faith  can  be  found 
than  that  in  the  history  of  our  father 
Abraha.-..  Although  a  land  was  given 
unto  him  and  his  posterity,  although  he 
had  been  told  that  through  him  and  his 
seed  the  earth  should  be  blessed,  yet 
God  required  at  his  hand  his  son  Issac, 
and  told  him  to  go  into  the  hill  Moriah 
and  there  offer  him  up  unto  the  Lord 
as  a  sacrifice.  He  bound  together  the 
sticks  of  wood,  took  the  young  man, 
and  journeyed  to  the  mountain,  where 
he  left  his  servants  and  bound  the 
sticks  upon  the  back  of  his  son;  and 
the  little  boy,  as  he  trudged  along  by 
the  side  of  his  father,  said:  "Father, 
father?"  Abraham  answered:  "Here  am 
I."  Then  said  the  child:  "Here  are  the 
sticks,  where  is  the  Lamb  for  sacri- 
fice?" The  father  answered:  "the  Lord 
will  raise  up  a  lamb  for  sacrifice." 

So  they  went  on  to  the  hill.  The  fa- 
ther built  an  altar,  laid  the  sticks 
thereon,  and  then  placed  his  beloved 
son  Isaac  upon  the  altar.  As  he  went 
to  offer  him  up  an  angel  of  the  Lord 
stayed  his  hand,  and  there  was  a  ram 
found  in  the  thicket  for  the  sacrifice. 
It  was  enough.  God  had  proven  his 
heart,  and  he  had  proven  his  soul; 
he  had  ascertained  that  Abraham  had 
given  unto  him  his  whole  heart,  wholly 
and  unreservedly.  And  because  of  this, 
the  angel  of  the  Lord  said  unto  him: 
"Because  thou  hast  not  withheld  thy 
son,  thine  only  son  from  me,  behold,  in 
blessing  I  will  bless  thee  until  thv  pos- 
terity shall  be  as  the  sands  upon  the 
sea  shore  and  as  the  stars  in  the  fir- 
mament of  heaven."  And  He  said 
further:  "In  thee,  and  in  thy  seed, 
shall  all  the  nations  of  the  earth  be 
blessed." 

Abraham  gave  unto  God  his  heart 
unstintedly,  and  God  promised  that  He 
would  pay  him  back.  He  had  faith 
and  power  to  give  his  own  flesh  and 
blood  as  a  sacrifice  to  God;  and  in  of- 
fering up  his  flesh  and  blood,  God 
promised  to  him  that  his  seed,  his 
flesh  and  bl^-d,  should  become  as 
numerous  as  the  sands  of  the  sea  shore 
and  as  the  stars  in  the  firmament  of 
the  heavens. 
God  has  said  that  every  blessing  that 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


is  in  the  Church  of  Christ  is  predicat- 
ed upon  the  observance  of  law.  He 
has  instituted  the  law  of  sacrifice,  the 
law  of  tithing-,  for  the  temporal  salva- 
tion of  the  people  of  God.  We  learn 
in  the  history  of  the  Jews  that  Adam 
and  Eve  were  given  of  the  fruits  of 
all  the  trees  in  the  garden,  and  were 
given  all  the  cattle  upon  the  earth,  the 
fishes  of  the  sea  and  the  fowls  of  the 
air  for  food  and  for  succor;  but  of 
one  tree  God  required  that  they  should 
not  touch  the  fruit  thereof,  but  that 
they  should  render  unto  Him  a  sacrifice 
of  the  fruit  of  that  tree,  and  that  by 
doing  so,  by  not  breaking  the  law  of 
their  temporal  salvation,  the  garden 
of  Eden  would  be  vouchsafed  unto 
them,  but  if  they  broke  it  they  would 
lose  their  home  and  would  be  driven 
out  from  that  land  even  into  the  lone 
and  dreary  world.  By  observing  the 
temporal  law  they  would  receive  tem- 
poral blessings;  by  the  breaking  of 
law  they  would  lose  their  home.  They 
broke  the  law,  the  angel  of  the  Lord 
drove  them  out,  and  the  earth  brought 
forth  briars,  thistles  and  noxious  weeds 
instead  of  the  lucious  fruits  that  it  was 
bringing  forth  '  e  that  time.  They 
transgressed  the  law,  and  their  own 
lives,  and  the  lives  of  their  own  chil- 
dren, brought  forth  briars  and  thistles 
and  noxious  weeds  in  the  flesh.  After 
awhile  was  a  people  under  the  leader- 
ship of  Enoch,  who  applied  the  prin- 
ciples of  sacrifice  to  a  portion  of  the 
earth's  surface,  and  they  brought  that 
portion  of  the  earth  up  to  a  sanctified 
condition.  As  fast  as  they  applied  the 
principles  of  sanctification,  the  law  of 
sacrifice,  to  that  portion  of  the  earth's 
surface,  and  applied  it  unto  their  own 
lives,  they  redeemed  their  home  and 
they  redeemed  themselves,  until  finally 
it  is  written  that  the  City  of  Enoch 
"was  not,  because  God  took  it." 

This,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  has 
been  impressed  upon  my  mind  as  the 
manner  in  which  this  earth  is  to  be 
redeemed.  God  blessed  that  peo- 
ple to  redeem  that  portion  of 
the  earth's  surface,  and  we 
have  their  example  before  us.  In  our 
day,  God  told  our  fathers  and  our  moth- 
ers before  they  came  to  this  land,  if 
they  would  keep  the  law  of  sanctifica- 


tion it  should  be  a  land  of  Zion  unto 
them,  and  they  should  not  be  overcome 
of  their  enemies.  It  was  beyond  them 
to  keep  that  law;  and  as  God  took  the 
Melchisedek  Priesthood  and  Moses  from 
ancient  Israel,  so  in  His  mercy  He  took 
the  higher  law  of  redemption,  temporal, 
from  the  people,  and  He  left  with  them 
the  lower  law,  that  of  tithing.  Now  we 
are  all  wandering  in  the  wilderness  of 
the  Western  States  of  America  with 
this  lower,  temporal  law  among  us, 
given  us  in  the  mercy  of  God  to  redeem 
us  and  bring  us  back  unto  that  condi- 
tion where  we  may  observe  the  higher 
law.  And  God  is  pleading  with  us, 
through  His  Prophet  today,  and  it  is 
one  of  the  signs  of  the  times.  When 
we  can  observe  this  law,  then  the  com- 
ing of  Christ  is  near,  even  at  our  doors, 
Zion  will  be  rebuilt,  and  it  will  be  re- 
deemed as  the  City  of  Enoch  was  re- 
deemed, and  the  law  shall  go  forth  and 
Zion  shall  increase  and  flourish  as  I 
have  given  you  here — "For,  behold,  I 
say  unto  you,  that  Zion  shall  flourish 
and  the  glory  of  God  shall  be  upon  her." 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  God  has 
renewed  unto  us  that  principle  of  sacri- 
fice through  President  Lorenzo  Snow. 
He  gave  us  a  blessing  so  that  we  may 
have  the  privilege  of  renewing  this 
land,  and  we  are  to  redeem  this  earth; 
and  we  are  to  redeem  ourselves  by  this 
law  of  sacrifice,  and  we  will  gain  it 
inch  by  inch,  by  the  blessings  of  the 
Lord,  as  we  apply  this  principle  of  sac- 
rifice unto  this  earth  of  ours.  The  man 
who  does  not  pay  his  tithing  is  the  man 
who  has  his  eyes  closed  against  this 
principle.  We  should  pray  that  God 
will  bless  us  with  His  spirit  that  we 
may  do  His  bidding  in  this  regard,  and 
thus  receive  a  blessing  which  is  pre- 
dicated upon  obedience. 

I  desire  to  say  unto  the  Latter-day 
Saints  one  thing  that  I  had  in  my  heart 
to  say  last  evening  at  the  Priesthood 
meeting.  One  year  ago  during  our 
conference  I  went  to  the  Sunday  School 
Union  and  heard  Apostle  Heber  J. 
Grant  attempt  to  sing,  and  I  heard 
some  parties  after  I  left  the  room  state 
that  he  had  made  a  scene  of  himself. 
He  had  stood  up  there  and  endeavored 
to  sing  a  song  of  Zion,  "O,  my  Fath- 
er, Thou  that  dwellest."  He  talked  to 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 


55 


us  a  little  while  before  that,  and  then 
he  attempted  to  sing  one  of  the  verses, 
and  did  not  get  the  right  key;  but  he 
said  that  he  would  try  it  again  as 
Brother  Goddard  used  to  when  he  got 
off  the  right  key,  and  he  sang  it  again 
in  the  same  old  way.  He  wanted  to 
sing  that  because  Eliza  R.  Snow  had 
composed  it.  She  exerted  a  great  in- 
fluence over  his  heart,  and  prophesied 
in  tongues  that  he  would  yet  be  one 
of  the  leaders  of  this  people.  He  de- 
sired to  learn  to  sing,  "God  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way,"  because  it  was  the 
hymn  that  was  the  most  loved  by  our 
beloved  President  Woodruff.  I  say  un- 
to 3'ou,  young  men  and  women,  before 
me,  that  I  feel  in  my  heart  that  God 
inspired  that  man  to  take  up  singing. 
He  quoteu  to  us  that  night  that  God 
delighteth  in  the  song  of  the  heart; 
yea,  the  song  of  the  righteous  is  a 
prayer  unto  Him,  and  it  shall  be  an- 
swered with  a  blessing  on  their  head. 
My  little  boy  was  sitting  with  me  when 
Brother  Giant  said  that,  and  his  eyes 
danced  with  joy  and  the  muscles  of 
his  face  played  with  excitement.  I  no- 
ticed him,  and  I  said  to  myself:  "I 
wonder  if  an  Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  will  be  robbed  of  some  of  his 
power  and  his  glory  because  he  makes 
a  scene  of  himself  before  Latter- 
d.-ty  Saints."  Two  weeks  after  there 
was  a  conference  in  Ogden.  The  speak- 
ers mentioned  to  be  there  included 
Brother  Heber  J.  Grant.  My  little  boy 
said,  "i  want  to  go  to  that  conference, 
papa,  if  Heber  J.  Grant  is  to  be  there." 

i  was  then  here  for  the  Eastern 
States  mission,  and  I  was  wondering 
what  I  could  do  to  assist  that  mission. 
It  is  a  hard  and  a  cold  mission,  and 
our  Elders  were  almost  desponding  in 
some  places  because  they  could  not 
thaw  the  people  out  sufficiently  to  get 
them  to  lend  an  ear  to  the  Gospel.  They 
were  not  preaching  as  much  as  they 
ought  to  have  done;  and  as  I  sat  in 
my  beat  that  night  there  was  a  feel- 
ing came  to  me  that  God  has  brought 
to  me  an  inspiration  through  Brother 
Grant.  I  went  back  to  that  mission 
and  went  to  every  conference  and  ev- 
ery part  of  it.  and  acted  on  the  idea 
that  perseverance  overcometh  many 
difficulties.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 


ELDER  BEN  E.  RICH. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  to  represent 
the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  upon  more 
than  one  mission  and  in  more  than  one 
nation;  and  I  feel  that  God  has  blessed 
me  in  the  labor  in  which  I  am  engaged. 
The  longer  I  live  the  more  fully  and 
thoroughly  do  I  understand  the  great 
and  mighty  things  which  are  being 
done  in  the  earth  in  this  the  greatest 
dispensation  that  the  earth  ever  saw. 
The  Latter-day  Saints  are  looked  upon 
as  a  peculiar  people,  and  they  are  the 
most  peculiar  people  to  be  found  upon 
the  face  of  the  earth.  In  standing  be- 
fore this  congregation,  I  see  people  be- 
fore me  who  came  from  a  great  many 
different  nations  of  the  earth  and  the 
blood  of  the  different  nationalities  Is 
being  blended  together  in  the  people 
growing  up  in  these  mountains  that 
will  yet  be  acknowledged  as  the  great- 
est in  strength,  in  wisdom  and  in  the 
knowledge  of  the  affairs  of  God  of  any 
people  who  ever  lived  upon  the  earth. 

I  say  to  the  young  men  and  young 
ladies,  Does  it  ever  dawn  upon  you  how 
much  you  owe  to  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ?  Does  it  ever  come  to  your  mind 
where  the  Gospel  found  your  mother, 
where  it  found  your  father,  where  the 
Gospel  of  Christ  made  them  acquainted 
with  each  other,  and  the  faith  in  that 
Gospel  gave  you  a  lovely  or  a  happy 
home  in  these  valleys  of  the  mountains  .' 
And  yet  the  Gospel  has  done  this;  and 
if  there  is  a  people  upon  the  earth  who 
should  realize  that  they  are  not  of  the 
world,  and  therefore  should  love  one 
another,  it  is  the  people  called  Latter- 
day  Saints.  No  matter  what  your  as- 
sociations may  be  with  others,  I  would 
have  you  understand  that  as  a  people 
you  are  a  distinct  people  in  and  of 
yourselves,  that  you  have  been  brought 
out  of  the  world,  that  you  are  not  of 
the  world;  and  if  the  words  and  prom- 
ises of  Christ  can  be  relied  upon,  you 
are  not  beloved  by  the  world. 

The  people  of  the  earth  at  the  pres- 
sent  time  occupy  the  same  position 
that  the  people  have  in  various 
ages  of  the  world  when  God  has  had 
Prophets  upon  the  earth.  In  fact,  the 
sin,  the  condemnation  of  the  people  of 
this  earth  always  has  been  that  they 
stood  ready  to  revere  the  memory  of 


56 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


dead  Prophets,  to  worship  the  memory 
of  the  people  of  God  who  were  in  their 
silent  graves,  and  who  had  lived  in  for- 
mer dispensations,  while  they  refused 
to  listen  to  Prophets  of  God  who  were 
sent  unto  them.  In  the  days  of  Noah, 
the  people  rejected  the  revelation  that 
God  gave  to  them  through  that  great 
Prophet,  and  it  was  to  their  condemna- 
tion that  they  rejected  the  revelation 
of  God  which  was  sent  to  them.  In 
the  days  of  our  Master  and  His  Apos- 
tles, it  was  the  condemnation  of  the 
people  who  lived  then,  that  they  re- 
jected Christ,  that  they  turned  a  deaf 
ear  to  Peter,  James  and  John  although 
they  were  willing  to  worship  the  mem- 
ory of  a  Moses,  of  a  Noah,  or  an  Abra- 
ham, or  any  of  the  other  Prophets  who 
lived  in  former  dispensations  Yet 
they  rejected  the  message  sent  to  them 

Manki Tf  th6ir  co»<Jemnation. 

Mankind  has  always  believed  in  ancient 
revelation,  and  in  every  dispensation 
they  have  rejected,  and  reject  now,  im- 
mediate revelation,  which  alone  can 
bring  eternal  life  and  salvation  in  the 
presence  of  God  to  any  people  who  lives 
«Pon  the  earth,  or  who  have  ever  lived 
upon  the  face  of  the  earth.  Belief  in 
former  revelation  never  did  and  never 
will  save  an  individual;  but  belief  in 
modern  revelation  has  always  been  the 
test  of  life  and  salvation  when  God  has 
had  a  people  upon  the  earth 

Not  long  ago  it  was  my  privilege  to 
spend  an  evening  with  a  Rabbi,  a  very 
learned  man  who  had  read  something  in 
an  interview  in  a  newspaper  which  had 
attracted  his  attention,  and  I  received 
an  invitation  to  go  to  him;  and  during 
the  evening  he  began  to  talk  about  the 
God  of  Abraham,  of  Isaac  and  of  Jacob 

asked  him  what  his  idea  of  God  was 
and  to  my  surprise  he  defined  the  deity 
very  much  in  the  same  way.  in  fact  in 
the  same  way,  as  He  is  looked  upon  by 
modern  Christianity  today,  that  He  was 
a  being  without  a  body,  without  parts 
without  passions;  that  He  did  not  exist 
in  any  shape,  that  He  was  found  in 
everything.  And  when  he  was  through 
I  ask  him  the  difference  between  that 
God  and  the  God  of  an  Ingersoll.who  be- 
lieved that  nature  was  the  only  God. 
And  I  said  to  him  that  it  seemed  to  me 
that  the  only  difference  between  the 
Jews    of    today    and    modern  Christi- 


anity of  today,  concerning  a  belief  in 
God,  and  the  followers  of  an 
Ingersoll  or  a  Bradlaugh,  was  that  one 
of  them  called  it  God  and  the  other 
called  it  Nature.  And  then  I  opened 
the  Bible,  and  I  said,  "Now  you  believe 
in  the  prophecies  of  Moses?"  "Yes." 
"Well,"  said  I,  "here  is  a  prophecy  ut- 
tered by  Moses,  found  in  one  of  the 
books  of  Moses,  which  says  that  Israel 
will  be  scattered  among  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  that  they  will  degenerate  to 
such  an  extent  that  they  will  not  be- 
lieve in  a  God  who  can  eat  or  speak  or 
smell."  "Now,"  said  I,  "after  the  defin- 
ition that  you  have  given  me,  that  the 
Supreme  Being  in  your  estimation  and 
in  the  estimation  of  the  Jews,  which  is 
the  same  as  the  estimation  of  modern 
Christianity,  that  He  has  no  body,  no 
parts,  no  passions,  seems  to  me  as 
though  we  saw  that  day  when  Israel 
has  not  only  been  scattered  among  the 
nations  of  the  earth  but  that  they  have 
actually  degenerated  to  such  an  extent 
that  they  do  not  believe  in  a  God  who 
can  eat  or  speak  or  smell;  and  it  also 
seems  to  me  as  though  that  Being  be- 
lieved in  by  Moses,  by  Abraham,  by 
Isaac  and  by  Jacob,  your  fathers — that 
in  Him  they  did  believe  in  a  God  who 
could  eat,  who  could  speak,  and  who 
could  smell,  and  in  whose  being  and 
presence  and  likeness  we,  His  children, 
were  created  when  we  were  placed  upon 
the  earth.  I  do  not  believe  I  ever  had 
a  greater  illustration  of  the  fulfillment 
of  a  prophecy  than  came  to  my  mind 
that  night,  when  I  was  talking  to  that 
Rabbi,  supposed  to  be  a  minister  of  the 
Gospel  of  ancient  Judah,  through  which 
source  has  come  to  us  the  mighty  reve- 
lations of  God  as  He  gave  them  to  His 
children  upon  the  earth,  which  have 
been  permitted  to  come  down  through 
the  stream  of  time  unto  us. 

Now  the  Gospel  of  Christ  has  been 
restored  to  the  earth,  in  fulfillment  of 
prophecy.  Once  more  mankind  is 
clothed  with  authority,  and  those  bear- 
ing that  authority  are  sent  out  to  all 
the  nations  of  the  earth,  and  their  busi- 
ness is  to  gather  Israel  from  where  they 
have  been  scattered,  bring  them  here 
and  teach  them  how  to  worship  the  God 
of  Abraham,  the  God  of  Isaac  and  of 
Jacob,  that  they  may  once  more  stand 
upon  the  earth  as  their  fathers  stood, 


ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 


57 


and  say  that  they  believe  in  'sa  God 
who  can  eat  and  speak  and  smell,"  and 
who  does  speak  to  His  children  upon 
the  earth,  and  believe  in  modern  reve- 
lation as  their  fathers  did.  May  God 
bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

Singing  by  the  choir: 

"Great  is  the  Lord." 

ELDER  ANTHONY  W.  IVINS. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  a  very  un- 
expected privilege  is  afforded  me  this 
afternoon  of  standing  before  you  and 
bearing  my  testimony  concerning  the 
principles  of  the  Gospel  of  Christ. 

The  last  words  of  the  hymn  which 
was  so  beautifully  sung  here,  the  sec- 
ond hymn,  by  Brother  Thomas  and 
the  choir,  shall  furnish  me  a  text  for 
the  very  few  remarks  that  I  expect  to 
make:  "God  is  with  us,  and  we  with 
Him."  I  ask  myself  the  question, 
when  I  see  these  lines,  if  we  are  justi- 
fied in  asserting  that  God  is  with  this 
people  and  we  with  Him?  It  is  now 
71  years  since  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was  or- 
ganized, and  what  has  been  the  result? 
The  Gospel  has  been  preached  in  al- 
most every  civilized  country  in  the 
world,  and  the  thing  that  brings  great- 
est joy  to  me  greatest  consolation, 
greatest  assurance,  is  the  fact  that 
God,  in  His  mercy,  has  not  only  given 
me  a  testimony  of  the  truth  of  the 
message  that  He  commanded  the  boy 
Prophet  to  send  out  into  all  the  world, 
but  that  He  has  given  it  to  all  of  you! 
and  I  know  that,  if  the  opportunity 
were  offered,  hundreds  of  you  would 
rise  up  and  bear  this  same  testimony 
with  me  this  afternoon.  And  that  is 
not  all.  We  know  that  away  up  in 
ice-locked  Norway  and  Sweden,  in  Ger- 
many, in  Prance,  in  the  British  Isles, 
and  in  the  islands  of  the  sea,  people  are 
gathered  together— people  with  whom 
we  never  associated,  people  who  are 
strangers  to  us,  people  who  represent 
many  different  nations  and  kindreds 
and  tongues,  and  that  they  are  all 
bearing  witness  today  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  and  that  through  His  mercy  the 
Latter-day  dispensation  has  been 
ushered  in  through  the  instru- 
mentality of  the  Prophet  Jo- 
seph  Smith.     They  are  all  bearing  tes- 


timony that  there  are  prophets  on 
the  earth  today.  The  revelations  of 
God  are  made  known  for  the  redemp- 
tion of  mankind,  and  that  today  the 
gathering  of  scattered  Israel  has  begun. 
This  is  a  strong  evidence  that  God  has 
been  with  us  from  the  very  inception 
of  this  Church  until  the  present  time. 
Has  he  blessed  us  in  the  gathering  of 
the  people?  Why,  we  extend  from 
Canada  in  the  north  to  Mexico  in  the 
south.  I  bring  you  greeting  from  Lat- 
ter-day Saints  who  are  laying  the 
foundations  of  Zion  securely,  firmly  and 
well  in  the  lands  of  the  Lamanites  upon 
the  south;  for  whatever  joy  we  may 
have  in  contemplating  the  great  mani- 
festations of  God  toward  us  in  the  past, 
we  know  that  the  greater  work  is  yet 
in  the  future.  We  know  that  the  re- 
demption of  Zion  has  not  yet  come.  We 
know  that  before  the  great  day  of  the 
Lord  shall  come,  that  "Jacob  will  flour- 
ish in  the  wilderness  and  the  Laman- 
ites blossom  as  the  rose."  In  1884,  I 
think  it  was,  the  Lord  revealed  to  Presi- 
dent Taylor,  in  a  revelation  that  was 
given  to  him,  that  the  time  had  come 
to  establish  and  maintain  the  Gospel 
among  the  Lamanites. 

About  that  time  the  first  Latter-day 
Saint,  through  force  of  circumstances, 
crossed  the  line  which  divides  the 
United  States  of  America  from  the 
United  States  of  Mexico,  and  a  few- 
straggling  colonists,  went  into  that 
country.  I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  re- 
port to  you  now  that  the  blessings  of 
the  Lord  have  continued  with  our  la- 
bors there,  and  we  have  maintained 
ourselves,  that  our  colonies  are  prosper- 
ing; that  we  rejoice  because  of  the  con- 
stant manifestations  of  God's  kindness 
and  care  and  blessing  to  us,  that  we  see 
from  day  to  day.  And  in  that  provi- 
dential move  we  see  the  beginning  of 
the  great  work  which  the  prophets  in- 
dicate must  be  performed  among  the 
remnant  of  Jacob  upon  this  continent 
before  Zion  shall  be  redeemed. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
and  bear  testimony  to  you  that  His  Gos- 
pel has  been  restored  to  the  earth  not  to 
be  taken  from  it  again.  Jesus  sent  his 
disciples  into  all  the  world  to  preach 
the  Gospel  to  every  creature,  but  he 
made  no  promise  to  them  that  they 
should  prevail.  On  the  other  hand, 
when  the  Gospel  was  restored  in  this 


58 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE 


dispensation,  when  John  the  Baptist 
laid  his  hands  upon  the  head 
of  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery, 
as  he  did  lay  his  hands  upon 
their  heads  and  bestowed  upon  them 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  he  said: 
"Upon  you,  my  fellow  servants,  in  the 
name  of  the  Messiah,  I  confer  the 
Priesthood  of  Aaron,  which  holds  the 
keys  of  the  ministration  of  angels,  of 
baptism  by  immersion  for  the  remis- 
sion of  sins,  and  this  Priesthood  shall 
never  be  taken  from  the  earth  until 
the  sons  of  Levi  do  offer  again  an 
offering  in  righteousness  unto  the 
Lord." 

We  should  feel  grateful  for  these 
assurances,  that  the  time  has  come  for 
the  consummation  of  all  the  promises 
made  through  the  holy  Prophets.  The 
time  of  the  redemption  of  Israel,  the 
gathering  together  of  His  scattered 
people,  the  redemption  of  hundreds  of 
thousand..-,  yes  millions  of  the  remnant 
who  occupy  this  country  south  of  us, 
for  there  are  probably  100,000,000  from 
Mexico  to.  Cape  Horn  whose  blood  has 
not  been  contaminated  by  admixture 
wTith  any  other  race.  The  Gospel  is 
about  to  be  preached  to  them.  A  mis- 
sion is  about  to  be  established  in  the 
City  of  Mexico,  indicating  to  us  the 
consummation  of  things  that  we  have 
long  desired.  The  Lord  tells  us  here  in 
the  Book  of  Mormon  that  "Whenever 
you  see  these  things  beginning  to  be 
made  known  to  the  remnant  of  your 
seed,  then  know  that  the  time  is  nigh 
when  I  the  Lord  will  fulfill  all  my 
promises  which  I  have  made  to  my  peo- 
ple. O  house  of  Israel." 

May  God  strengthen  our  faith,  and 
bless  us  with  fortitude  and  faith  to 
continue  until  Zion  shall  triumph,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

ELDER  ELIAS  S.  KIMBALL. 
Brothers  and  sisters,  about  the  first 
thing  that  I  want  to  say  is  this,  that  I 
was  startled  when  Brother  Taylor 
walked  down  the  aisle  and  called  me  to 
the  stand.  I  want  to  say  further  that 
I  was  obedient  to  the  call  and  I  am  now 
obedient  to  the  voice  of  Brother  Grant, 
in  standing  before  you  to  bear  my  tes- 
timony to  the  truth  of  this  Gospel.  I 
always  want  to  be  obedient  to  the  coun- 
sel of  the  servants  of  the  Lord  and  al- 


ways to-  be  willing  to  listen  to  the  voice 
of  the  Spirit  of  God.  I  want  to  be 
humble,  I  want  to  be  meek,  I  want  to 
be  lowly  in  heart;  and  I  want  to  be 
saved. 

I  testify  that  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  true,  that  it  has  been  revealed 
in  the  latter-days  by  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  through  His  Spirit,  or  directly, 
to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  His 
Church  has  been  organized  with  Apos- 
tles, prophets,  pastors,  evangelists,  pas- 
tors and  teachers  and  with  other  offi- 
cers. There  are  in  the  Church  the  gifts 
and  blessings  that  have  been  spoken  ot 
in  the  scriptures,  and  they  are  true, 
and  calculated  for  the  blessing  and  sal- 
vation of  the  human  family;  and  I  am 
willing  to  labor  with  the  rest  of  the 
people  in  making  sacrifices  that  will  be 
necessary  for  the  redemption  of  the  hu- 
man family.  I  pray  God  to  bless  us 
and  to  bless  the  people,  and  to  make 
them  realize  who  they  are,  that  they 
are  not  what  some  of  us  sometimes 
think  we  are,  "the  blue  blood."  When 
I  think  of  the  origin  of  our  people,  think 
of  Joseph  Smith,  Brigham  Young,  my 
father,  and  all  of  the  early  leaders  of 
our  people,  where  they  came  from,  I  am 
led  to  reflect  upon  the  story  related  by 
our  Savior  in  the  parable  of  the  great 
feast.  When  he  sent  out  his  servants 
to  invite  the  r'ch  and  the  wealthv  to 
partake  of  the  feast  they  would  not 
come;  but  nh  n  he  sent  out  his  ser- 
vants pgfin  to  the  highways  and  by- 
ways, then  the  poor  and  the  unlearned 
and  the  low'y  among  men  came  and 
partook  of  the  feast.  Our  people  are  of 
that  class.  I  believe  they  are  from  the 
class  of  people  who  are  honest  and  vir- 
tuous and  who,  with  all  their  imper- 
fections, desire  to  serve  God  and  keep 
His  commandments. 

My  heart  is  full  of  blessings  for  our 
people,  I  desire  to  see  them  prosper  and 
grow  and  increase  in  the  earth  and  to 
be  willing  to  make  such  sacrifices  as 
will  be  necessary  on  their  part  to  build 
up  the  kingdom  of  God  and  carry  the 
Gospel  to  the  nations  of  the  earth,  that 
the  honest  in  heart  among  all  people 
may  have  the  same  great  blessings  and 
privileges  that  we  now  enjoy  and  all 
that  the  Lord  has  in  store  for  His  peo- 
ple. I  feel  to  bless  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  EPHRAIM  H.  NYE. 


59 


ELDER  EPHRAIM  H.  NYE. 

I  have  great  joy,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, in  being  in  your  midst  this  day.  1 
rejoice  in  the  knowledge  of  the  Gospel 
of  the  Son  of  God,  and  I  am  grateful 
that  I  have  the  privilege  of  coming  up 
to  Zion  to  listen  to  the  precious  truths 
that  have  been  taught  during  this  con- 
ference. It  has  been  food  to  my  soul.  I 
have  feasted  at  the  fountain  of  light  in 
listening  to  the  instructions  that  have 
been  given  up  to  the  present  time.  You 
have  been  hearing  from  many  of  the 
missions,  and  I  will  say  that  I  have 
been  laboring  in  the  California  mis- 
sion for  some  length  of  time,  and  I  take 
pleasure  in  saying  that  the  spirit  of  the 
Lord  has  been  with  us.  We  have  had 
many  good,  faithful  Elders  laboring 
there,  and  a  goodly  number  of  people 
have  listened  to  their  testimonies.  We 
have  good  branches  in  different  parts 
of  the  State,  and  the  Lord  is  with  us 
manifesting  His  presence  by  the  power 
that  He  pours  out  upon  His  servants  in 
the  healing  of  the- sick  and  the  blessing 
and  comforting  and  instructing  of  the 
Saints. 

One  thing  struck  me  very  forcibly 
while  hearing  the  instructions  of  this 
conference — the  reference  made  to  the 
necessity  of  respecting  the  Priesthood. 
From  my  earliest  childhood,  and  long 
before  my  parents  ever  heard  the  Gos- 
pel— when,  in  fact,  I  was  a  little  boy  of 
eight  years,  my  mother  taught  me  to 
read  the  Scriptures,  sitting  upon  a  little 
stool  at  her  feet,  while  she  would  be  do- 
ing the  family  sewing.  And  I  learned 
to  read  the  wonderful  works  of  the 
Apostles  and  of  our  Savior.  I  remember 
in  that  early  day  of  my  life  my  feelings 
when  I  read  of  those  wonderful  things, 
and  I  thought  in  my  heart,  "O,  what 
would  I  not  give  if  I  could  have  lived  in 
the  days  of  the  Apostles!"  When  I  read 
of  our  Savior  taking  little  children  in 
his  arms  and  blessing  them,  I  thought, 
"O,  what  would  I  not  give  to  have  been 
one  of  those  little  children!"  And  when 
I  read  the  great  works  of  the  Apostles 
in  ancient  times  and  the  wonderful 
healings  that  they  performed  by  the 
pow-er  of  God,  I  thought,  "O,  what 
would  I  not  give  to  have  lived  in  the 
days  of  the  Apostles."  I  was  perhaps 
about  11  years  of  age  when  my  parents 
found  the  Gospel. 


A  poor,  straggling  Elder  ran  against 
the  family  by  some  means  or  other, 
and  they  all  came  into  the  fold,  and 
finally  all  reached  Zion.  And  now  I 
"look  to  the  pit"  from  which  "I  was 
digged"  and  the  "rock  from  which  I 
was  hewn."  Far  away  to  the  ends  of 
the  earth,  the  Lord  sent  for  me,  as  He 
did  for  many  others.  I  have  from 
that  day  to  this  continued  to  thank 
and  to  praise  and  to  bless  His  holy 
name,  that  He  had  that  love  for  me, 
a  poor,  weak  mortal,  to  gather  me  home 
to  His  fold;  and  my  soul  goes  out  in 
thanksgiving  and  praise  continually 
that  I  have  been  accounted  w"orthy, 
amidst  the  millions  of  the  inhabitants 
of  the  earth,  to  be  gathered  and 
brought  to  see  and  permitted  to  re- 
joice in  the  knowledge,  of  the  truth. 
And  it  is  a  source  of  gratitude  in  my 
soul  to  be  permitted  to  stand  in  the 
presence  of  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ. 

Recently  Apostle  Grant  and  Brother 
J.  Golden  Kimball  have  been  out  with 
us  in  the  California  mission.     It  was  a 
pleasure,   indeed,   to  me  to  introduce 
them  in  that  mission;  it  was  a  pleas- 
ure greater  'than  I  can  express  to  in- 
troduce Apostle  Grant  as  one  of  the 
Apostles  of  Almighty  God.  It  has  been 
a  satisfaction  to  me  that  I  have  been 
permitted  occasionally  to  see  one  of 
the  Apostles  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  What 
other  people  experience      when  they 
come  into  their  presence,  I  do  not  know; 
but  I  do  know  that  I  never  come  into 
the  presence  of  one  of  the  Apostles  of 
Jesus  Christ  but  I  feel  the  influence 
that  surrounds  them,  and  my  soul  goes 
out  in  gratitude  to  the  Almighty  that 
I  am  permitted  to  associate  with  such 
men,  and,  in  fact,  to  live  in  the  day 
when  they  live,  and  to  listen  to  their 
instructions,  that  I  have  the  privilege 
to  receive  the  words  of  the  Almighty 
and  of  eternal  truth  as  they  flow  from 
their  lips,  and  that  I  am  permitted  to 
bow  in  obedience  to  their  words  and 
the  requirements  they  make  of  me.  It 
is  a  joy  to  me  to  be  accounted  worthy 
to  go  forth  and  preach  the  Gospel  to 
the  wicked.     It  is  a  satisfaction  that  I 
have  never  gained  in  any  of  the  avoca- 
tions in  life— and  I  suppose  that  I  have 
had  my  share  of  pleasure  in  human 
life — but  none  have  ever  risen  to  the 
height  of  extreme  satisfaction  that  I 


60 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


have  enjoyed  in  preaching  the  Gospel 
to  this  generation,  lifting  up  my  voice 
to  those  who  know  not  God. 

I  will  tell  of  an  instance  that  oc- 
curred in  Los  Angeles.  There  is  a  cor- 
ner there  where  they  permit  us  occa- 
sionally to  preach  upon  the  street,  and 
we  often  go  there  to  preach.  It  is  the 
lowest  down  spot  in  Los  Angeles.  It  is 
where  the  saloons  and  the  rif-raff  of 
that  community  gather.  It  is  a  fact 
that  oftentimes  when  wTe  have  been 
holding  meeting  upon  those  corners,  we 
could  hardly  hear  ourselves  for  the 
lewd  songs  that  were  being  sung  inside 
of  the  saloons  upon  each  corner  of  the 
street. 

One  night  I  was  there  with  the  breth- 
ren, and  we  were  holding  a  meeting 
upon  that  corner.  One  of  the  other 
brethren  was  speaking,  and  I  expected 
to  follow  him.  I  was  looking  at  the 
motley  crowd  that  had  gathered  around 
us.  There  were  negroes,  half-breeds, 
Mexicans,  Indians,  Chinamen  and  some 
whites.  It  was  about  the  hardest  look- 
ing lot  that  I  ever  gazed  upon  as  lis- 
tening to  a  religious  sermon;  and  as  I 
looked  at  them  I  thought  to  myself, 
"Why,  if  we  could  baptize  this  whole 
lot  they  are  not  worth  having."  My 
soul  sank  clear  down  to  my  boots,  as  it 
seemed,  and  I  felt  that  I  hadn't  the 
courage  to  speak  to  such  a  congrega- 
tion. I  fairly  dreaded  the  very  thoughts 
of  the  ordeal  immediately  before  me, 
and  dreaded  the  brother  stopping  that 
was  then  speaking.  Finally  every  bit  of 
courage  had  oozed  out  of  me  when  he 
did  stop.  But  I  stepped  forward,  and  in 
the  weak,  humble  way  that  I  felt,  began 
to  speak.  I  felt  so  disheartened,  so  dis- 
couraged to  think  that  there  was  one 
of  the  great  cities  of  the  country  and  a 
fine  people,  but  the  rules  of  the  city 
councilors  were  such  that  we  could  not 
go  upon  the  better  streets;  we  had  to 
take  that  corner,  and  here  we  had  to 
stand  and  speak  to  such  a  lot  of  people. 
However,  I  began  to  speak,  and  as  I 
proceeded  it  seemed  to  me  that  the 
Spirit  of  the  Lord  came  upon  me,  and 
those  old,  dark,  swarthy  visages  took 
on  a  different  hue  in  my  mind.  Every 
one  was  leaning  forward  as  far  as  his 
balance  would  let  him  to  listen  to  what 
I  said.  The  most  profound  attention 
was  being  given  by  that  hard-looking 
congregation;   and  as  I  proceeded  to 


speak  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested  upon 
me  more  and  more,  and  it  seemed  as 
though  they  became  beautiful  before  me. 
It  seemed  to  me  as  though,  instead 
of  having  the  thought  that  I  wouldn't 
do  anything  for  them,  that  I  could 
not  only  preach  the  Gospel  to  them, 
but  if  necessary  I  could  lay  down  my 
life  for  them.  I  continued  on 
until  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  rested  up- 
on me  so  abundantly  that  it  seemed  as 
though  I  did  not  stand  upon  the 
ground.  It  seemed  as  though  a  mighty 
power  surrounded  me  and  caused  me 
to  see  the  value  of  their  souls  to  the 
Lord.  The  attention  they  gave  was 
wonderful,  and  I  spoke  on,  filled  with 
the  Spirit  overcome  with  the  joy  that 
I  had  known  under  no  other  circum- 
stances in  human  life.  I  say  to  you 
that  never,  under  any  conditions  in  life, 
have  I  had  such  joy  as  I  had  in  preach- 
ir.g  to  that  congregation.  They  gath- 
ered around  in  immense  numbers  until 
they  stood  all  around  me.  They  dou- 
bled and  quadrupled  in  numbers.  The 
otner  meetings  that  were  being  held  on 
the  opposite  corners  of  the  street  had 
dismissed,  and  all  their  congregations 
had  come  and  gathered  around  us.  and 
we  had  a  grand  and  a  splendid  meet- 
irg.  We  spoke  as  long  as  we  had  pow- 
er to  speak.  We  rejoiced  in  the  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth;  and  I  wish  to  state 
that  many  of  our  best  members  in  the 
State  of  California  have  been  caught 
by  hearing  preaching  on  the  streets. 
No  one  can  tell,  as  he  preaches  the 
Gospel  upon  the  street  what  word  he 
says  is  going  to  sink  down  into  the 
hearts  of  his  hearers.  He  does  not 
know  what  sentence  he  utters  or  what 
passage  of  scripture  he  quotes  that  is 
going  to  have  its  effect  upon  some- 
body; and  so  we  will  be  able  to  stand 
as  witnesses  against  thosa  people  in 
the  great  day  of  judgment,  that  we 
have  preached  the  Gospel  unto  them. 
We  do  gather  many,  too.  Many  of 
them  become  investigators  and  come 
to  our  hall  meetings  which  are  adver- 
tised, and  good,  honest  souls  come  out; 
and  we  are  building  up  branches  in  that 
mission,  and  we  rejoice  with  them. 

I  wish  to  say  that  it  seems  to  me  that 
we  dc  not  appreciate  fully  and  to  the 
extent  we  ought  the  blessings  the  Al- 
mighty pours  out  upon  us.   It  seems  to 


ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 


(il 


me  that  we  do  not  appreciate  the  fact 
that  we  are  not  groping  as  the  blind 
for  the  wall  upon  the  grand  question  of 
religion.  Do  we  appreciate  the  fact 
that  every  one  of  us  can  commune 
with  the  Almighty  whenever  we  please 
if  we  will  get  down  upon  our  knees 
and  do  it?  Do  we  appreciate  the  fact 
that  we  have  men  standing  in  our 
midst  who  can  reach  the  Lord  and 
obtain  His  mind  and  will  at  any  time 
under  all  circumstances;  that  we,  His 
people,    need    not    be    in  the  dark? 

During  the  whole  of  this  conference 
the  great  principle  of  tithing  is  kept  be- 
fore us.  The  Saints  of  California  pay  a 
good  tithing.  The  mission  is  self-sup- 
porting; and  this  is  one  of  the  things 
that  we  preach.  Not  openly;  we  say 
but  very  little  oi  tithing  openly;  very 
little  indeed.  But,  it  is  a  rule  that  we 
have  in  the  mission  that  no  one  shall  be 
baptized  until  he  or  she  understands  the 
principle  of  tithing  perfectly;  no  one 
shall  be  led  into  the  waters  of  baptism 
by  any  Elder  until  this  grand  question 
is  laid  before  him  or  her.  They  shall 
not  have  the  privilege  of  coming  up  and 
saying,  "You  have  deceived  me;  you  ad- 
vertise that  the  seats  are  free  and  there 
are  no  collections,  but  you  have  some- 
thing you  bring  forward  afterwards  in 
the  form  of  tithing."  The  principle  of 
tithing  is  carefully  laid  before  them  be- 
fore they  are  baptized,  and  we  have 
many  there  who  have  paid  tithes  before 
they  were  baptized.  I  regard  this  prin- 
ciple of  tithing  as  one  of  the  grandest, 
ind  it  is  indeed  the  touch-stone.  He 
vho  pays  his  tithes  will  not  be  far  out 
of  the  way  on  every  other  question, 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel?  I  rejoice  that 
I  am  accounted  worthy  to  bear  a  por- 
tion of  the  ministry  to  the  nations  of 
the  earth,  and  feel  in  my  soul  that  it  is 
the  greatest  joy  that  we  can  have  and 
the  grandest  work  we  can  perform,  and 
I  am  ready  and  willing,  and  gladly  will 
I  spend  the  residue  of  my  days  in 
preaching  the  Gospel  to  the  unbelieving 
world.  It  is  my  determination  to  be 
obedient  to  every  requirement  that  is 
made  of  me,  to  live  by  every  word 
that  proceedeth  forth  from  the  mouth 
of  God  through  His  servants,  whom  He 
has  placed  and  appointed  to  direct  all 
things  here  upon  the  earth.  This  is  my 
determination,  to  live  in  such  a  way 
that  I  can  claim  the  blessings  of  the 


Lord,  and  do  everything  that  is  re- 
quired of  me  from  this  day  forth,  in  all 
my  life.    God  bless  you.  Amen. 

Elder  Heber  J.  Grant  sang  the  "Holy 
City." 

ELDER  J.  GOLDEN  KIMBALL. 

You  have  listened  to  the  testimony 
and  the  preaching  of  the  Apostles  and 
Prophets  of  this  Church  during  this 
conference;  but,  as  Scripture  puts  it, 
'Are  all  Apostles,  are  all  Prophets, 
are  all  Evangelists,  Pastors  or  Teach- 
ers?" I  bear  my  testimony  that  I  thank 
the  Lord  that,  notwithstanding  the  fact 
that  I  recognize  that  the  Apostles  have 
gifts,  powers,  appointments  and  labors 
that  it  is  beyond  our  prerogatives  and 
rights  to  infringe  upon,  I  thank  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  that  we  have  young 
men,  honored  of  the  Lord,  that  they  can 
preach  and  testify  just  as  well  as 
Apostles  and  Prophets.  I  desire  to  say 
to  the  rising  generation,  You  do  not 
have  to  be  Apostles,  you  do  not  have 
to  be  Presidents  of  Stakes,  nor  Bishops 
to  enjoy  the  gifts  and  blessings  per- 
taining to  the  Gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.  And  I  .say  to  you  that  some  of 
you — and  I  may  be  among  that  num- 
ber—place too  much  stress  upon  the 
positions  that  men  hold  in  the  Church, 
and  we  fancy  in  our  weakness  that  we 
cannot  be  saved,  that  we  cannot  serve 
God,  that  we  cannot  be  faithful  and 
true  and  enjoy  revelation  from  God, 
unless  we  have  high  office  in  the 
Church.  There  is  danger  in  exalted 
position,  and  where  "much  is  given 
much  is  required."  The  poorest  man  in 
all  Israel,  though  he  may  carry  a  hod 
and  be  dressed  like  a  pauper,  is  en- 
titled to  revelation  from  God,  and  he  is 
entitled  to  lay  hands  on  the  sick,  and 
they  shall  recover  through  the  prayer 
of  faith.  I  realize  a  great  object  les- 
son has  been  set  us  by  Apostle  Grant. 
I  have  watched  this  matter  carefully, 
and  I  am  able  to  testify  that  out  of  it 
will  come  great  good,  that  no  great  ad- 
vancement has  ever  taken  place  except 
as  a  result  of  faithful  and  persevering 
effort.  I  will  say  that  many  of  the 
young  men  that  have  gone  east  and 
spent  fortunes  to  learn  to  sing  came 
back  to  this  country  unappreciated, 
and  some  of  them  would  be 
in    penury    were    it    not    for  their 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


relatives;  for  our  people  are  not  as 
appreciative  as  they  ought  to  be,  or 
at  least  they  have  not  been.  I  admire 
our  young  people  that  have  learned 
to  sing  the  songs  of  Zion.  I  stood  on 
that  street  in  Los  Angeles,  referred  to 
by  Brother  Nye,  and  listened  to  our 
young  men  preach.  It  was  the  first 
time  in  all  my  labors  I  had  ever  heard 
an  Elder  preach  upon  the  streets.  And 
when  I  asked  two  Elders  why  they  did 
not  commence,  they  said,  "We  are  un- 
able to  begin  our  meeting  until  the 
other  Elders  come,  for  we  cannot 
sing."  No  meetings  can  be  held  in 
California  upon  the  streets  unless  the 
Elders  can  sing.  It  is,  in  fact,  the  key 
to  the  situation.  Lots  of  men  can 
sing  that  are  mighty  poor  preachers. 

Judgment  comes  with  age,  as  a  rule, 
not  always.  We  young  men  that  have 
responsibilities  placed  upon  us  often- 
times have  a  great  deal  of  courage, 
but  may  lack  judgment.  The  point  I 
want  to  get  at  is  this:  we  must  have 
some  very  brave  and  courageous  men. 
Apostle  Grant  with  the  assistants  that 
will  go  with  him,  may  open  up  a  mis- 
sion in  Japan.  Some  Apostle  may  be 
sent  to  Russia,  to  open  the  door  in 
that  great  nation,  and  it  may  be  the 
privilege  of  some  of  us  to  go  and  get 
killed  after  the  doors  are  opened.  The 
Gospel  will  never  be  preached  to  every 
nation,  kindred,  tongue  and  people 
without  lives  being  lost,  nor  without 
your  eating  "the  bread  of  adversity 
and  drinking  the  water  of  affliction." 
And  we  may  not  all  be  successful,  but 
when  a  man  is  willing  to  lay  down  his 
life,  and  takes  his  life  in  his  hands  and 
labors  for  the  kingdom  of  God,  he  can 
do  no  more.  He  might  make  mistakes, 
and  he  might  err  in  judgment.  David, 
that  boy  as  he  was,  went  out  and 
killed  Goliath.  If  he  had  not  all  Israel 
would  have  pointed  the  finger  of  scorn 
at  David.  Dewey  succeeded;  but  had 
Dewey  failed,  he  would  have  been  in 
ignominy  and  disgrace  before  the 
American  people.  So  I  wonder  if  it  is 
only  the  man  that  succeeds  that  gets 
the  praise.  I  have  heard  or  read  of  a 
man  that  went  to  the  World's  Parlia- 
ment of  Religions.  He  did  not 
succeed,  because  they  would  not 
hear  him.  I  read  of  another 
man  that  went  to  Congress,  and 
it  took  7,000,000  signatures  to  get  rid  of 


him.  And  I  tell  you  that  great  good 
will  come  out  of  it.  I  admire  courage 
and  bravery  as  well  as  judgment  and 
wisdom.  We  have  to  have  brave  men 
and  courageous  men,  and  we  young 
men  have  to  learn,  and  the  only  way 
we  can  learn  is  by  trying,  like  Brother 
Grant.  My  heart  swelled  within  me 
when  I  heard  him  sing  today.  My 
heart  swelled  with  joy  when  I  heard 
him  sing  at  President  Snow's  birthday 
party,  for  I  knew  he  sang  with  the 
Spirit  of  God;  and  the  Lord  will  an- 
swer his  prayers  for  he  has  an  object 
in  view.  And  I  know  what  that  object 
is.  and  it  is  a  righteous  object. 

As  iong  as  a  man  has  a  righteous  ob- 
ject he  has  a  right  to  make  an  effort; 
and  if  he  makes  any  mistakes,  it  is  my 
duty  to  reach  out  to  him  my  hand, 
even  the  hand  of  charity.  And  if  you 
Latter-day  Saints  do  not  do  it.  and 
some  of  us  young  men  fail  because  of 
your  severe  criticisms  and  your  unkind 
statements,  God  will  hold  you  responsi- 
ble. We  have  seen  men  handled  be- 
cause they  waded  into  mysteries,  and, 
of  course,  it  was  proper  and  right 
when  they  waded  into  mysteries  and 
preached  false  doctrines  that  they 
should  be  handled.  I  can  see  the 
righteousness  of  it,  but  I  wonder  if  any 
man  has  ever  been  handled  in  the 
kingdom  of  God  for  not  knowing  any- 
thing. I  am  in  favor  of  some  of  them 
being  handled  right  away.  I  pray  the 
Lord  to  bless  you.  Amen. 

ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 

Brother  Taylor  desires  that,  inasmuch 
as  I  am  about  to  leave  for  a  foreign 
country,  and  this  is  about  the  last 
chance  I  will  have  to  meet  with  the 
Saints  for  many  years,  that  I  should 
occupy  the  rest  of  the  time.  I  would 
have  been  perfectly  willing  to  divide  the 
time  with  him,  because  a  person  can 
bear  a  testimony  at  any  time  in  a  very 
few  minutes,  and  the  only  thing  I  in- 
tended tJ  do  today  was  simply  to  bear 
my  testimony  and  leave  it  with  you 
before  departing  upon  my  mission. 

I  regret  that  I  failed  in  my  object 
lesson.  I  would  have  been  glad  had  I 
been  able  to  sing  that  song  through 
without  a  mistake.  I  have  only  sung 
it  through  five  times  today  without  a 
mistake,  but  when  I  tried  it  the  sixth 


ELDER  HEBER  J.  GRANT. 


63 


time  I  got  an  error  in  it.  But  I  haven't 
got  over  my  nervousness  when  stand- 
ing before  the  assembled  people  to  sing. 
I  suppose  the  reason  is,  I  don't  know 
"where  I  am  at."  I  am  like  a  boat 
without  a  rudder,  so  to  speak,  when  I 
try  to  sing.  To  give  you  an  illustra- 
tion: I  was  a  short  time  ago  at  a 
dinner  party  at  Brother  Cannon's  and 
one  of  the  people  present  requested  me 
to  sing  "O,  My  Father,"  and  simul- 
taneously another  one  of  the  company 
asked  me  to  sing,  "God  moves  in  a 
mysterious  way."  I  asked  Sister  Snow 
if  she  would  kindly  play  that  in  the 
key  of  F.  She  had  heard  one  of  the 
parties  ask  me  to  sing  one  piece  and  I 
had  heard  the  other  ask  me  for  the 
other  one,  and  she  played  "O,  My  Fath- 
er," and  I  sang  "God  moves  in  a  mys- 
terious way."  As  good  fortune  would 
have  it,  the  first  three  notes  of  these 
songs  are  identically  the  same,  and 
Sister  Snow  discovered  what  I  was 
trying  to  do,  and  therefore  played, 
"Gcd  moves  in  a  mysterious  way,"  and 
we  got  through  all  right.  I  thought  the 
music  sounded  a  little  strange,  although 
I  had  heard  it  a  great  many  times  be- 
fore; but  it  hadn't  made  any  such  im- 
pression upon  me  that  I  was  able  to 
tell  ti:e  difference. 

I  have  a  letter  clear  from  the  Philip- 
pine Islands,  in  which  I  was  told, 
among  other  things,  "Don't  try  to 
sing."  The  writer  says:  "I  am  in  earn- 
est." He  is  one  of  my  nearest  friends 
too,  Major  Young;  in  fact,  he  and  I 
grew  up  together,  almost.  And  he  tells 
his  reason  he  says,  "Because  you  will 
be  subjected  to  ridicule,  and  there  will 
be  a  great  deal  of  criticism."  I  have 
had  a  great  many  of  my  friends  come 
to  me  and  beg  me  not  to  sing.  Six 
months  ago  one  of  my  fellow  Apostles 
said  to  me,  "Come  in,  Heber.  but  don't 
sing."  The  same  Apostle  last  night 
asked  me  to  sing  "God  moves  in  a  mys- 
terious way,"  and  after  I  got  through 
complimented  me  upon  it.  I  said  after- 
ward, "I  noted  your  remarks  in  the 
Priesthood  meeting,  when  you  told  men 
who  had  been  ordained  to  the  office  of 
Patriarch,  that  they  could  not  enjoy 
the  spirit  of  the  office  unless  they  gave 
patriarchial  blessings;  and  now,"  said 
I.  "if  you  will  tell  me  how  I  will  learn 
to  sing  without  singing,  I  will  thank 


you."  He  said,  "Sing  every  chance 
you  get,  Brother  Grant,  but  do  your 
first  singing  down  in  Mexico  or  Arizona 
or  somewhere  a  long  way  off."  I  said, 
"I  have  already  tried  that,"  and  I  have 
tried  it  at  home,  and  I  sang  this  same 
song  the  other  night  at  home.  But  I 
will  never  learn  to  sing  before  a  large 
audience  until  I  try.  I  prop-se  to  sing 
the  "Holy  City"  in  the  big  Tabernacle 
before  I  get  through  with  it,  and  I  pro- 
pose to  sing  it  without  a  mistake.  I 
do  not  say  this  boastingly,  because  I 
believe  what  Alma  of  old  said,  in  the 
29th  chapter  of  his  book,  that  "God 
granteth  unto  men  according  to  their 
desires,  whether  they  be  for  good  or  for 
evil,  for  joy  or  remorse  of  conscience." 
I  desire  to  sing,  and  I  expect  to  work 
at  it  and  to  stay  right  with  it  until  I 
learn.  The  most  I  ever  worked  was  to 
sing  400  songs  in  four  days;  that  is  the 
biggest  amount  of  work  I  have  ever 
done  in  the  singing  line.  There  are  a 
great  many  people  that  can  learn  to 
sing  very  easily.  When  I  started  to 
learn  to  sing  it  took  me  four  months 
to  learn  a  couple  of  simple  hymns  and 
recently  I  learned  one  in  three  hours  by 
the  watch  and  then  sang  it  without  a 
mistake. 

"That  which  we  persist  in  doing  be- 
comes easier  for  us  to  do;  not  that  the 
nature  of  the  thing  itself  is  changed, 
but  that  our  power  to  do  is  increased." 
I  propose  to  keep  at  it  until  my  power 
to  do  is  increased  to  the  extent  that  I 
can  sing  the  songs  of  Zion.  Nobody 
knows  the  joy  I  have  taken  in 
standing  up  in  the  Tabernacle  and 
other  places  and  joining  in  the  singing, 
because  it  used  to  be  a  perfect  annoy- 
ance to  me  to  try  and  to  fail,  besides 
annoying  those  around  me;  because  I 
would  sing,  because  I  loved  the  words 
of  the  songs  of  Zion. 

I  am  very  sorry  now  for  having  per- 
secuted people  as  I  used  to.  In  our 
meetings  in  the  Temple  the  brethren 
would  say  "That  is  as  impossible  as  it 
is  for  Brother  Grant  to  carry  a  tune," 
and  that  settled  it;  everybody  ac- 
knowledged that  was  one  of  the  im- 
possibilities. I  believe  what  the  Lord 
says,  "My  soul  delighteth  in  the  song 
of  the  heart,  yea,  the  song  of  the 
righteous  is  a  prayer  unto  me,  and  it 
shall  be  answered  with  a  blessing  upon 


64 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


their  head."  I  desire  to  serve  the  Lord, 
and  pray  unto  him  in  the  songs  of  Zion; 
and  I  know  that  it  produces  a  good  in- 
fluence. 

Now  I  wish  to  say  something  on  an- 
other subject.  In  the  providences  of  the 
Lord  I  may  be  one  of  those  that  Brother 
Kimball  referred  to;  I  may  go  to  Japan 
and  never  come  back.  I  have  never 
been  guilty,  I  believe,  of  preaching  be- 
yond the  prescribed  time  of  two  hours, 
only  when  I  have  been  out  in  Mexico, 
or  so  far  away  from  home  that  they 
didn't  see  me  very  often.  Why?  Be- 
cause I  knew  how  they  would  go  out 
and  complain  about  it.  But  as  this 
will  be  the  last  chance  to  speak  to  you 
for  a  few  years,  I  desire  to  say  a  few 
words  more.  I  give  you  fair  warning. 
I  am  going  to  talk  as  long  as  I  want  to, 
and  there  are  lots  of  doors,  and  any- 
body that  gets  tired  can  go  out  and  it 
won't  hurt  my  feelings  at  all. 

I  rejoice  in  the  Gospel,  I  rejoice  in 
the  rich  outpourings  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
that  have  been  given  in  the  instructions 
imparted  during  this  conference.  I  re- 
joice with  Brother  Kimball,  that  every 
Latter-day  Saint,  every  humble  son 
and  daughter  of  God  that  has  embraced 
the  Gospel  and  become  a  member  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  has  received  the  witness  of  the 
Holy  Spirit,  that  the  gift  of  tongues,  the 
gift  of  prophecy,  of  healing,  and  other 
gifts  and  blessings,  are  found  in  the 
Church,  and  are  not  confined  to  men 
that  hold  responsible  positions  in  the 
Church.  I  have  listened  to  some  of  the 
most  spirited,  and  able,  and  some 
of  the  finest  sermons  of  my  life  from 
men  who  held  no  official  position.  I 
remember  in  the  Thirteenth  ward  lis- 
tening to  a  very  gifted  sermon  by  a 
finely  educated  man  who  had  a  mar- 
velous command  of  language.  After- 
wards Brother  Millen  Atwood,  who  at 
that  time  was  not  holding  any  posi- 
tion of  an  official  character,  stood  up 
as  a  home  missionary  in  that  ward, 
and  if  that  man  had  been  hired  to  mur- 
der the  Queen's  English  he  couldn't 
have  done  it  more  perfectly.  I  had 
just  been  studying  grammar,  and,  there- 
fore, it  grated  on  my  ears,  as  I  sup- 
pose my  singing  would  grate  upon  the 
ear^  of  a  person  that  understood  fine 
music.    But  my  heart  was  touched,  and 


tears  welled  up  in  my  eyes  because  of 
the  rich  outpourings  of  the  Holy  Spirit 
upon  that  man,  and  there  was  an  im- 
pression made  upon  my  heart  of  the  di- 
vinity of  this  work  and  the  fact  that 
Joseph  Smith  is  a  Prophet  of  God  that 
to  this  day  I  ha.\  e  not  forgotten.  It  is 
not  position,  it  is  not  education  that 
gives  the  Spirit  of  God;  but  it  is  keep- 
ing the  commandments  of  Almighty 
Geo  and  being  lowly  in  heart  and  desir- 
ing to  fulfill  the  commandments  of  God 
in  our  daily  walk  and  conversation.  I 
bear  witness  to  you  here  today  that  no 
man  has  ever  fallen  in  this  Church,  and 
no  man  ever  will  fall  in  this  Church, 
who  is  honest  in  his  heart,  honest  in 
the  payment  of  his  tithes  and  offer- 
ings, who  obeys  the  "Word  of  Wisdom, 
who  attends  to  his  family  pray- 
ers and  his  secret  prayers,  and 
who  attends  to  his  quorum  meetings; 
no  man  will  fall  who  is  doing  his  duty 
in  this  Church.  But  Satan  has  power 
over  those  who  become  selfish  and  sor_ 
did  and  set  their  hearts  upon  the  things 
of  this  earth  and  fail  to  render  thanks 
in  all  things  unto  God. 

I  bear  testimony  to  you  today  that 
God  lives;  that  I  know  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ;  that  I  know  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  Prophet  of  the  true  and 
living  God;  that  I  know  that  we  will 
live  forever  if  we  keep  the  command- 
ments of  God.  I  know  that  we  have 
Apostles,  Prophets,  Patriarchs  or 
Evangelists  in  the  Church.  I  know  that 
they  have  the  inspiration  of  their  offices 
and  calling's.  I  know  that  the  Gospel 
tree  is  alive,  that  fruit  grows  upon  the 
tree,  as  I  have  reached  out  my  hand 
and  plucked  the  fruit  thereof,  and  have 
eaten  it.  I  have  sat  by  the  death-bed 
of  my  last  living  son,  a  boy  upon 
whom  I  had  set  my  heart  and  whom  I 
expected  to  grow  up  and  labor  for  the 
interests  of  God's  kingdom;  standing 
up,  as  it  were,  in  my  place;  I  have 
seen  that  child  die  without  shedding  a 
tear,  and  I  know  that  the  comforting 
Spirit  from  God  was  in  my  home  when 
I  saw  him  die.  I  love  God  and  I  love 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  ask  for 
your  prayers  in  my  behalf  during  my 
absence.  May  God  grant  His  blessings 
upon  us  at  all  times,  I  ask  in  the  name 
of  Jesus.  Amen. 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


65 


The  choir  sang  the  hymn: 
"Praise    to  the    man  who  communed 
with  Jehovah." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  John  W.  Taylor. 


AT  THE  TABERNACLE. 

Closing  session,  April  7th,  2  p.  m. 
The  choir  and  congregation  sang: 

"How  firm  a  foundation,  ye  Saints  of 
the  Lord, 

Is  laid  for  your  faith  in  His  excellent 
word!" 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Joseph 
W.  McMurrin. 

Singing  by  the  choir,  (solo  by  Miss 
Ferrin) : 

"As  the  dews  from  heaven  distilling." 

ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 

The  Saints  the  victims  of  misrepresentation— The 
gathering  of  Israel— Enemies  of  truth  injure 
the  nation— Saints  will  save  it  from  destruction. 

It  is  very  gratifying  to  me  to  behold 
this  vast  audience  assembled  for  the 
purpose  of  hearing  the  servants  of  the 
Lord  speak  of  His  goodness' and  mercy, 
and  showing  the  gratitude  which  we 
owe  to  Him  for  the  blessings  of  this 
day.  I  would  like  the  attention  of  the 
people,  for  it  will  be  difficult  to  make 
all  hear  my  voice  in  this  building  in  its 
present  crowded  condition. 

I  desire  to  add  my  testimony  to  that 
of  my  brethren  who  have  addressed 
you  during  the  conference.  If  there 
ever  was  a  people  upon  the  earth  who 
had  occasion  to  manifest  gratitude, 
thanksgiving  and  praise  to  Almighty 
God,  this  people  certainly  have.  It  has 
been  a  year  since  our  last  annual  con- 
ference, and  six  months  since  we  met 
in  semi-annual  conference.  If  we  have 
come  with  prayer  in  our  hearts  and 
blessings  for  our  fellow  men,  the  Lord 
will  be  with  us.  We  need  a  vast  amount 
of  teaching.  Frequently  we  feel  in- 
capable of  sustaining  the  weight  rest- 
ing upon  us,  and  the  vicissitudes  of  life 
are  more  than  we  can  bear  sometimes, 
and  if  it  were  not  for  the  overruling 
providences  of  our  Father  we  could  not 
endure  the  pressure  that  is  brought  to 
bear,  sometimes  by  friends  and  often 
by  foes,  upon  the  work  of  God. 


I  wish  that  the  people  of  the  world, 
especially  the  United  States,  could 
know  us  as  we  are.  I  remember  a  re- 
mark that  my  father  made  to  a  certain. 
United  States  official  who  had  served 
his  time  as  a  Territorial  officer  here  and 
was  about  to  take  his  departure.  Af- 
ter this  official  had  remarked  that  he 
had  been  well  treated  and  he  was  glad 
to  know  the  people,  my  father  turned 
to  him  and  said,  "I  am  glad  to  hear 
you  express  your  feelings  in  that 
way.  If  you  will  be  good  enough 
to  tell  the  truth  about  us  when  you 
go  hence,  that  is  all  we  ask."  What 
is  the  reason  that  our  neighbors 
are  not  of  our  faith.  Here  we  have  men 
in  our  midst  who  cling  to  honor  as  they 
cling  to  life — honorable  men  in  almost 
everything — and  yet  they  hesitate  no 
more  to  lie  about  us  than  they  do  to 
take  their  salary  for  what  they  do.  It 
is  a  little  mysterious  to  me.  If  they 
would  only  tell  the  truth,  and  give  the 
people  of  the  United  States  a  fair 
chance,  I  would  be  glad.  The  people  in 
the  East  and  West  labor  under  disad- 
vantages that  the  people  who  are 
among  us  do  not;  and  it  seems  to  me 
that  if  those  who  mingle  so  freely  with 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  who  traduce 
them  more  freely,  would  only  represent 
us  to  the  people  at  large  just  as  we  are, 
we  would  be  better  and  more  favorably 
known.  But  individuals  stand  in  the 
way,  and  villify,  malign  and  bear  false 
witness  against  the  people  who  compose 
the  Church  of  Christ  upon  the  earth. 
It  is  possible  that  they  do  not  know 
what  they  are  doing.  It  seems  to  me, 
though,  that  they  are  working  for  a 
purpose,  and  nothing  will  satisfy  them 
except  we  destroy  the  God  we  worship 
and  adopt  the  God  (?)  that  they  pre- 
tend to  worship. 

I  want  to  read  a  little  about  the  con- 
dition of  things  today,  from  the  Book 
of  Mormon.  Jesus  Christ  was  on  this 
land  about  two  thousand  years  ago, 
and  He  gave  the  people  His  doctrine. 
In  speaking  of  the  future  of  this  land 
and  of  the  people  who  should  dwell  on 
it.  He  said: 

"And,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  I  give 
unto  you  a  sign,  that  ye  may  know  the 
time  when  these  things  shall  be  about 
to  take  place,  that  I  shall  gather  in 
from  their  long  dispersion,  my  people. 


t><) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


of  the  house  of  Israel,  and  shall  estab- 
lish again  among  them  my  Zion. 

"And  behold,  this  is  the  thing  which 
I  will  give  unto  you  for  a  sign,  for 
verily  I  say  unto  you,  that  when  these 
things  which  I  declare  unto  you,  and 
which  I  shall  declare  unto  you  here- 
after of  myself,  and  by  the  power  of 
the  Holy  Ghost,  which  shall  be  given 
unto  you  of  the  Father,  shall  be  made 
known  unto  the  Gentiles;  that  they  may 
know  concerning  this  people  who  are  a 
remnant  of  the  house  of  Jacob.;  and 
concerning  this  my  people  who  shall  be 
scattered  by  them. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  when 
these  things  shall  be  made  known  unto 
them  of  the  Father,  and  shall  come 
forth  of  the  Father,  from  them  unto 
you: 

"For  it  is  wisdom  in  the  Father  that 
they  should  be  established  in  this  land, 
and  be  set  up  as  a  free  people  by  the 
power  of  the  Father,  that  these  things 
might  come  forth  from  them  unto  a 
remnant  of  your  seed,  that  the  cove- 
nant of  the  Father  may  be  fulfilled 
which  he  hath  covenanted  with  His 
people,  O  house  of  Israel; 

"Therefore,  when  these  works,  and 
the  works  which  shall  be  wrought 
among  you  hereafter,  shall  come  forth 
from  the  Gentiles  unto  your  seed, which 
■  shall  dwindle  in  unbelief  because  of 
iniquity; 

"For  thus  it  behoveth  the  Father  that 
it  should  come  forth  from  the  Gentiles, 
that  he  may  show  forth  His  power 
unto  the  Gentiles,  for  this  cause,  that 
the  Gentiles,  if  they  will  not  harden 
their  hearts,  that  they  may  repent  and 
come  unto  me,  and  be  baptized  in  my 
name,  and  know  of  the  true  points  of 
my  doctrine,  that  they  may  be  num- 
bered among  my  people,  O  house  of 
Israel; 

"And  when  these  things  come  to 
pass,  that  thy  seed  shall  begin  to  know 
these  things,  it  shall  be  a  sign  unto 
them,  that  they  may  know  that  the 
"work  of  the  Father  hath  already  com- 
menced unto  the  fulfilling  of  the  cove- 
nant which  he  hath  made  unto  the  peo- 
ple who  are  of  the  house  of  Israel. 

"And  when  that  day  shall  come,  it 
shall  come  to  pass  that  kings  shall  shut 
their  mouths;  for  that  which  had  not 
been  told  them  they  shall  see;  and  that 
which  they  had  not  heard  shall  they 
consider. 

"For  in  that  day,  for  my  sake  shall 
the  Father  work  a  work,  which  shall 
be  a  great  and  marvelous  work  among 
them;  and  there  shall  be  among  them 
who  will  not  believe  it,  although  a  man 
shall  declare  it  unto  them. 

"But  behold  the  life  of  my  servant 
shall  be  in  my  hand;  therefore  they 
shall  not  hurt  him,  although  he  shall 
be  marred  because  of  them.  Yet  I  will 
heal  him,  for  I  will  show  unto  them 
that  my  wisdom  is  greater  than  the 
cunning  of  the  devil. 

"Therefore  it  shall  come  to  pass,  that 


whosoever  will  not  believe  in  my  words, 
who  am  Jesus  Christ,  whom  the  Father 
shall  cause  him  to  bring  forth  unto 
the  Gentiles,  and  shall  give  unto  him 
power  that  he  shall  bring  them  forth 
unto  the  Gentiles,  (it  shall  be  done  even 
as  Moses  said,)  they  shall  be  cut  off 
from  among  my  people  who  are  of  the 
covenant. 

"And  my  people  who  are  a  remnant 
of  Jacob,  shall  be  among  the  Gentiles, 
yea,  in  the  midst  of  them  as  a  lion 
among  the  beasts  of  the  forest,  as  a 
young  lion  among  the  flocks  of  sheep, 
who,  if  he  go  through  both  treadeth 
down  and  teareth  in  pieces,  and  none 
can  deliver. 

"Their  hand  shall  be  lifted  up  upon 
their  adversaries,  and  all  their  enemies 
shall  be  cut  off. 

"Tea,  wo  be  unto  the  Gentiles,  ex- 
cept they  repent,  for  it  shall  come  to 
pass  in  that  day,  saith  the  Father  that 
I  will  cut  off  thy  horses  out  of  the 
midst  of  thee,  and  I  will  destroy  thy 
chariots. 

"And  I  will  cut  off  the  cities  of  thy 
land,  and  throw  down  all  thy  strong- 
holds; 

"And  I  will  cut  off  witchcrafts  out  of 
thy  hand,  and  thou  shalt  have  no  more 
soothsayers; 

"Thy  graven  images  I  will  also  cut 
off,  and  thy  standing  images  out  of  the 
midst  of  thee,  and  thou  shalt  no  more 
worship  the  works  of  thy  hands; 

"And  I  will  pluck  up  thy  groves  out 
of  the  midst  of  thee;  so  will  I  destroy 
thy  cities. 

"And  it  shall  come  to  pass  that  all 
lyings,  and  deceivings,  and  envyings, 
and  strifes,  and  priestcrafts,  and 
whoredoms,  shall  be  done  away. 

"For  it  shall  come  to  pass,  saith  the 
Father,  that  at  that  day  whosoever  will 
not  repent  and  come  unto  my  beloved 
Son,  them  will  I  cut  off  from  among 
my  people,  O  house  of  Israel; 

"And  I  will  execute  vengeance  and 
fury  upon  them,  even  as  upon  the 
heathen,  such  as  they  have  not  heard. 

"But  if  they  will  repent,  and  hearken 
unto  my  words,  and  harden  not  their 
hearts,  I  will  establish  my  church 
among  them,  and  they  shall  come  in 
unto  the  covenant,  and  be  numbered 
among  this  the  remnant  of  Jacob,  unto 
whom  I  have  given  this  land  for  their 
inheritance, 

"And  they  shall  assist  my  people,  the 
remnant  of  Jacob,  and  also,  as  many 
of  the  house  of  Israel  as  shall  come, 
that  they  may  build  a  city,  which  shall 
be  called  the  New  Jerusalem; 

"And  then  shall  they  assist  my  people 
that  they  may  be  gathered  in,  who  are 
scattered  upon  all  the  face  of  the 
land,  in  unto  the  New  Jerusalem. 

"And  then  shall  the  power  of  heaven 
come  down  among  them;  and  I  also  will 
be  in  the  midst; 

"And  then  shall  the  work  of  the  Fa- 
ther commence  at  that  day,  even  when 
this  Gospel  shall  be  preached  among 


ELDER  BRIGHAM  YOUNG. 


07 


the  remnant  of  this  people.  Verily  I 
say  unto  you,  at  that  day  shall  the 
work  of  the  Father  commence  among 
all  the  dispersed  of  my  people;  yea, 
even  the  tribes  which  have  been  lost, 
which  the  Father  hath  led  away  out  of 
Jerusalem. 

"Yea,  the  work  shall  commence 
among:  all  the  dispersed  of  my  people, 
with  the  Father,  to  prepare  the  way 
whereby  they  may  come  unto  me,  that 
they  may  call  on  the  Father  in  my 
name; 

"Yea,  and  then  shall  the  work  com- 
mence, with  the  Father,  among-  all  na- 
tions in  preparing  the  way  whereby 
His  people  ma-  be  gathered  home  to 
the  land  of  their  inheritance. 

"And  they  shall  go  out  from  all  na- 
tions; and  they  shall  not  go  out  in 
haste,  nor  go  by  flight,  for  I  will  go 
before  them,  saith  the  Father,  and  I 
will  be  their  rearward." 

Chap.  21st  of  III  Nephi. 

The  indications  to  me  are  that  the 
adversary  is  doing  all  in  his  power  to 
destroy  the  work  which  God  has  es- 
tablished. Christ  Himself,  looking  to 
this  day,  and  to  this  nation,  the  glory 
and  unity  of  which  has  been  preserved 
up  to  the  present  day,  said  that  if  the 
Gentiles  would  receive  His  Gospel,  and 
not  harden  their  hearts  against  His 
word,  which  should  come  through  His 
Prophet,  He  would  gather  them  in  and 
number  them  among  His  people  of  the 
house  of  Israel,  and  they  would  be- 
come a  chosen  seed.  These  are  the 
conditions  which  exist  today.  The  Lord 
raised  up  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
and  restored  His  Gospel.  That  Gospel 
has  been  and  is  being  declared  unto 
the  people  of  this  nation,  and  if  they 
receive  it,  it  will  be  well  with  them. 
Perhaps  I  am  a  little  uncharitable,  but 
today  I  look  upon  every  effort  that  is 
made  to  misrepresent  this  people  as  an 
injury  to  this  nation.  These  men  who 
are  doing  all  in  their  power  against 
the  work  of  God,  which  has  been  es- 
tablished for  the  benefit  and  bless- 
ing of  this  nation,  are  in  reali- 
ty, though  they  may  not  know 
it,  seeking  to  destroy  the  great 
United  States  as  a  nation.  By  their 
misrepresentations  of  the  Church  of 
Christ,  they  are  preventing  good,  hon- 
est people  from  even  listening  to  the 
principles  we  have  to  present  to  them. 
They  wont  receive  it  themselves,  and 
they  prevent  others  from  receiving  it. 
Men  who  are  seeking  to  lift  themselves 
into  place  and  power  stand  in  the  way 


and  prevent  the  honest  in  heart  of  this 
nation  taking  advantage  of  the  promise 
of  the  Savior  and  coming  into  the  fold, 
so  that  we  may  perpetuate  this  glorious 
nation  and  those  constitutional  princi- 
ples which  have  made  it  one  of  the 
foremost  nations  of  the  world.  This 
nation  is  classed  along  with  the  oldest, 
although  it  has  sprung  up  within  a  cen- 
tury and  a  quarter;  it  is  looked  upon  as 
a  nation  that  is  full  of  intelligence.pow- 
er  and  patriotism,  and  it  is  respected 
throughout  the  civilized  world.  Yet,  ac- 
cording to  the  words  of  Christ  in  this 
book,  if  the  people  of  this  nation  are 
so  blinded  that  they  will  not  consider 
what  He  has  to  offer  them  by  H;s  ser- 
vant— if  they  will  not  receive  the  Gos- 
pel, then  fhall  their  horses  be  cut  off 
out  of  their  midst,  their  cities  shall  be 
destroyed,  (heir  strongholds  shall  be 
thrown  down,  and  their  strength  shall 
become  weakness.  I  want  to  add,  if  that 
day  shall  come,  through  the  rejection  of 
this  Gospel  by  the  people  of  these  Unit- 
ed Stats,  t  ie  Latter-day  Saints  will 
rise  up  in  the  power  and  majesty  of  the 
priesthood,  and  they  will  bear  off  the 
Ccnst'tut  on  of  the  United  States.  That 
was  given  by  revelation,  and  we  will 
defend  it  with  the  last  drop  of  blood  we 
have  in  our  bodies  and  the  last  dollar 
in  our  pockets;  God  will  reject  those 
wicked  men  and  women  who  have 
sought  to  blind  the  minds  of  the  hon- 
est and  thereby  brought  trouble  and 
woe  upon  this  nation. 

Those  who  will  stand  up  for  the  rights 
of  men  will  combine  with  us,  and  we 
will  form  a  nucleus  that  shall  uphold 
and  sustain,  by  our  patriotism,  our 
acts,  our  means  and  our  lives,  the  glori- 
ous institutions  which  God  has  founded 
for  the  express  purpose  of  having  this 
a  free  land,  where  His  sons  and  daugh- 
ters can  come  and  rejoice  in  the  plenti- 
tude  of  His  mercies. 

Who  is  there  among  the  Latter-day 
Saints  that  will  not  live  for  this  glori- 
ous end?  Who  is  there  that  cannot  see 
the  condition  of  things  and  what  we 
have  before  us?  If  he  has  the  Spirit  of 
God  in  his  heart,  his  soul  is  lifted  to  his 
Creator;  and  knowing  that  his  Father 
looks  upon  the  inmost  recesses  of  his 
boul,  he  realizes  that  he  must  bear  him- 
self valiantly  in  the  sight  of  heaven. 
May  God  help  us  to  be  valiant  Latter- 
day  Saints,  and  never  to  be  recreant 


OS 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE. 


to  those  principles  which  the  Lord  has 
established,  upon  this  continent.  If 
men  will  not  receive  them,  let  us  live 
them  the  more  closely  and  thoroughly, 
and  fill  our  mission  acceptably.  I  say 
to  you — and  I  feel  it  in  every  fibre  of  my 
body — that  this  land  will  never  be  given 
to  another  people  and  Israel,  together 
with  the  virtuous,  the  honest,  the  God- 
fearing will  hold  the  reins  of  govern- 
ment upon  this  land,  and  the  people  of 
every  nation  will  rejoice,  because  God 
will  bring  it  to  pass. 

May  God  bless  us,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. Let  us  hold  fast  to  that  which  is 
pure  and  upright,  eschew  evil,  and  put 
away  our  follies  from  among  us.  A 
young  man  said  to  me,  "I  can't  go  to 
my  quorum  meeting  tonight."  "What 
is  the  matter?"  "I  have  been  smoking, 
and  they  will  smell  my  breath."  That 
is  one  of  the  evils.  What  is  that  young 
man  doing?  He  is  cutting  himself  off 
from  the  presence  of  the  Spirit  of  God, 
which  he  must  have  in  him  to  enable 
him  to  perform  his  duty.  Another  one 
said,  "I  can't  go  to  the  quorum  meet- 
ing tonight."  Why?  "I  have  been 
drinking  some  beer  and  smoking  an  old 
pipe,  and  I  dare  not  go."  For  the  sake 
of  gratifying  his  appetite  he  cannot  at- 
tend his  duties  as  a  Latter-day  Saint. 
This  is  a  little  thing  to  mention  in  com- 
parison with  the  glorious  things  that 
we  have  to  think  of;  but  these  are  the 
small  foxes  that  spoil  the  vines.  God 
help  us  to  sweep  away  these  things,  and 
do  away  with  wickedness.  Let  the 
glorious  truth  triumph  in  our  hearts. 
God  help  us  that  we  may  reach  out, 
with  all  the  strength  and  power  He 
gives  us,  unto  that  end  which  we  are 
destined  to  attain  to,  and  finally  be 
saved  in  His  kingdom,  is  my  prayer  in 
the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Brother  Robert  Easton  sang  a  solo 
entitled,  "Eternal  Rest." 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

The  assembly  a  grand  sight  to  gaze  upon — The 
Saints  prominent  before  the  nations — The 
Lord  has  wonderfully  blessed  them— Facilities 
for  progress — Importance  of  obedtf  nee  to  the 
law  of  tithing — Duties  of  officers  of  Ihe  Priest 
hood— Folly  of  setting  aside  the  counsels  of 
God — A  powerful  testimony  to  the  truth. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  arise  be- 
fore you  feeling  very  dependent  upon 
the  Lord  for  what  I  shall  say.    I  have 


thought  over  and  over  again,  while  lis- 
tening to  my  brethren,  what  subject  I 
might  dwell  upon,  if  called  to  speak, 
and  for  the  life  of  me  I  could  not  fix  in 
my  mind  a  single  subject  on  which  to 
speak.  I  am  therefore  entirely  in  the 
hands  of  the  Lord,  to  speak  as  the  Spirit 
shall  direct.  I  have  had  delight  in  hear- 
ing the  testimonies  and  counsels  of  the 
brethren  who  have  spoken  to  us  during 
the  Conference.  They  have  all  enjoj-ed 
the  inspiration  of  the  Holy  Spirit,  and 
each  one  has  given  to  us  meat  in  due 
season,  so  that  if  our  minds  were  capa- 
ble of  retaining  that  which  has  been 
said  to  us  during  the  Conference,  we 
would  go  away  from  here  richly  in- 
structed. I  trust  that  the  good  Spirit 
may  remain  with  us  to  the  end  of  our 
meetings,  that  at  the  conclusion  we 
may  feel  that  it  has  been  good  to  wait 
upon  the  Lord  and  to  be  present  at  this 
seventy-first  anniversary  of  the  organ- 
ization of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints. 

It  is  a  grand  sight  to  look  upon  this 
vast  assemblage  of  people.  I  wonder  if 
at  any  previous  time  in  the  history  of 
God's  dealings  with  the  children  of  men 
there  was  ever  such  a  sight  as  we  be- 
hold here  today — this  large  Tabernacle 
filled  to  overflowing,  every  seat  occu- 
pied, and  people  standing  in  the  aisles 
and  along  the  walls;  and  just  over  the 
way,  in  the  Assembly  Hall,  another 
gathering  of  Latter-day  Saints,  unable 
to  gain  admittance  to  this  building,  are 
worshipping  the  Lord,  and  celebrating 
this  day  of  prosperity,  joy  and  happi- 
ness for  the  people  of  the  kingdom  of 
God;  for  notwithstanding  our  individ- 
ual deprivations  and  afflictions,  and  the 
absence  from  us  of  one  of  our  beloved 
leaders  (President  George  Q.  Cannon), 
there  never  was  a  time  in  the  history 
of  this  Church  when  the  people  were 
more  blessed  of  the  Lord,  temporally 
and  spiritually,  than  they  are  today.  I 
do  not  think  there  ever  has  been  a  time 
in  the  history  of  this  Church  when  our 
people  occupied  a  more  prominent  posi- 
tion before  the  gaze  of  the  nation  of 
which  we  form  a  part  and  before  the 
eyes  of  the  nations  of  the  earth,  than 
they  do  today.  The  Lord  Almighty  is 
with  His  people,  and  He  has  poured  out 
His  Spirit  upon  those  that  have  been 
willing  and  prepared  to  receive  it.  I 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  P.  SMITH. 


69 


feel  in  my  heart  that  the  time  has  come 
when  the  Lord  is  not  only  willing,  but 
desirous  to  pour  out  upon  His  people 
every  blessing-  that  they  are  prepared 
to  receive;  and  I  sometimes  feel  that 
He  is  already  bestowing  upon  us  bles- 
sings of  which  we  are,  to  some  extent, 
unworthy.  I  believe  that  the  Lord  is 
willing  to  bestow  light,  intelligence  and 
a  knowledge  of  His  truth,  by  the  inspi- 
ration of  His  Holy  Spirit,  upon  all  His 
sons  and  daughters  who  are  living  in 
such  a  manner  as  to  be  worthy  to  re- 
ceive it.  It  is  our  privilege  to  obtain 
revelation,  not  only  concerning  our  own 
duty,  but  also  with  regard  to  our  kin- 
dred who  have  gone  behind  the  veil, 
and  whose  hearts  are  turned  unto  their 
children,  to  whom  they  are  looking  for 
deliverance  and  for  the  benefits  of  the 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  which  we  are  privileged  to  ad- 
minister in  their  behalf.  There  never 
was  a  time,  until  within  the  last  few 
years,  when  the  Latter-day  Saints  had 
access  to  four  temples  in  which  to  ad- 
minister the  ordinances  of  the  Gospel 
for  the  living  and  for  the  dead;  and 
those  four  are  becoming  too  distant — at 
least,  the  people  are  becoming  so  nu- 
merous in  distant  parts  of  the  country 
that  even  though  we  have  four  temples 
in  which  to  administer  the  ordinances 
of  the  Gospel,  there  are  thousands  of 
our  people  who  are  practically  deprived 
of  the  privilege  of  enjoying  them,  be- 
cause they  are  so  far  removed  from 
them.  Under  these  circumstances,  I 
foresee  the  necessity  arising  for  other 
temples  or  places  consecrated  to  the 
Lord  for  the  performance  of  the  or- 
dinances of  God's  house,  so  that  the 
people  may  have  the  benefits 
of  the  house  of  the  Lord 
without  having  to  travel  hun- 
dreds   of  miles  for  that  purpose. 

Now,  are  we  coming  to  a  knowledge 
of  the  truth?  Or  are  we  like  those  of 
whom  Paul  spoke,  ever  learning,  but 
never  coming  to  the  knowledge  of  the 
truth?  With  the  efforts  of  the  Apos- 
tles, of  the  First  Presidents  of  Seven- 
ties, the  Seventies,  the  Elders,  the 
Presidents  of  Stakes,  the  High  Coun- 
cilors and  the  Bishops,  whose  duty  it 
is  to  instruct  the  people  in  relation  to 
the  principles  of  life  and  salvation, 
there  certainly  ought  to  be  a  thorough 


performance  of  duty;  but  notwithstand- 
ing the  labors  of  those  who  have  been 
and  who  are  teachers  among  us,  it 
would  seem  as  though  there  was  still 
a  great  lack,  and  that  many  come  far 
short  of  performing  their  duties.  We 
have  every  facility  for  receiving  in- 
struction, and  we  have  the  Bible,  the 
Book  of  Mormon  and  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  which  we  can  read  by  the 
spirit  in  which  they  were  written;  yet 
many  of  us  are  lacking  in  faith  and 
in  the  knowledge  of  the  truth.  Not 
long  ago  the  Presiding  Bishop  came  to 
the  President's  office  and  brought  with 
him  a  large  volume  containing  ten 
thousand  names  of  reputed  members  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  He  placed  it  before  Presi- 
dent Snow  and  said,  "President  Snow, 
here  is  a  list  of  ten  thousand  members 
of  the  Church  who  are  non-tithe  pay- 
ers." Just  think  of  it!  With  all  the 
facilities  we  have  of  coming  to  an  un- 
derstanding of  the  truth,  with  the  doc- 
trines of  Christ  before  us  in  the  in- 
spired books  which  we  have— the  Bible, 
which  speaks  so  plainly  in  relation  to 
the  principle  of  tithing;  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  which  repeats  the  law  of  tith- 
ing; and  the  book  of  Doctrine  and  Cov- 
enants, which  contains  the  revelations 
the  Lord  gave  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith— and  professing  as  we  do 
to  be  Latter-day  Saints,  yet  there  are 
ten  thousand  non-tithepayers  among 
us!  We  meet  together  from  Sabbath  to 
Sabbath,  partake  of  the  Sacrament  of 
the  Lord's  Supper,  belong  to  various 
quorums  of  the  Priesthood,  and  not- 
withstanding all  this  there  are  -so  many 
who  have  not  yet  learned  this 
one  principle,  and  who  do  not  seem  to 
understand  that  it  Is  a  command  of  God! 
unto  this  people.  It  is  not  only  a  com- 
mand, but  it  is  given  as  the  word  of 
the  Lord  with  promise;  for  by  obedience 
to  it  we  are  to  be  delivered.  When  the 
earth  shall  be  burned,  and  when  the 
proud  and  they  that  do  wickedly  shall 
become  as  stubble  under  the  feet  of 
men,  the  Lord  has  declared  that  those 
who  are  tithed  shall  not  be  burned. 
Furthermore,  the  promise  is  that  if  we 
will  observe  this  law  this  land  which 
He  has  given  to  us  shall  be  a  land  of 
Zion  unto  us,  a  land  of  promise,  a  land 
that  shall  be  blessed  of  the  Lord,  a  land! 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


that  the  curse  shall  be  removed  from, 
that  shall  be  blessed  unto  the  husband- 
man, and  that  shall  become  fertile  and 
fruitful.  Notwithstanding  this  glori- 
ous promise,  it  is  said  there  are  amongst 
us  ten  thousand  whose  names  are  not 
inscribed  upon  the  roll  of  honor  nor 
written  in  the  book  of  the  law  of  the 
Lord.  For  them,  according  to  the  word 
of  God,  there  will  be  non-inheritance 
in  Zion  when  He  shall  choose  those  who 
shall  be  worthy  to  go  there  and  build 
up  the  center  Stake;  neither  will  their 
children  have  inheritance  there,  nor 
their  posterity  after  them;  for  their 
names  will  not  be  found  enrolled  in  the 
book  of  the  law  of  the  Lord. 

We  may  think  this  a  very  simple 
thing.  Let  us  look  at  it  for  a  moment. 
It  is  claimed  that  there  are  sixty-nine 
thousand  tithepayers  in  the  Church, 
who  have  paid  all  the  way  from  one  dol- 
lar to  hundreds  of  dollars  a  year.  Sup- 
pose that  there  had  been  only  ten  thou- 
sand tithepayers,  and  fifty-nine  thou- 
sand had  refrained  from  paying  tith- 
ing. How  would  you  build  temples 
and  tabernacles?  How  would  you 
maintain  the  ministry  of  the  Church, 
feed  and  clothe  the  poor,  and  aid  and 
educate  the  fatherless  and  the  orphan? 
What  would  be  your  resources  to  build 
up  Zion  and  to  establish  the  kingdom 
of  God  in  the  earth?  You  would  not 
have  enough  to  do  it.  Where  would 
be  the  revenue  of  the  Church  if 
all  the  people  were  as  negligent  of 
their  duty  and  as  thoughtless  in 
regard  to  the  necessities  of  the  cause 
of  Zion  as  the  ten  thousand  non-tithe- 
payers  have  been?  How  would  we  ac- 
complish anything  of  a  material  char- 
acter? We  would  be  like  the  sec- 
tarian world — powerless;  and  even 
more  so,  for  while  other  denominations 
do  not  have  the  law  of  tithing,  yet  they 
have  enthusiastic,  wealthy  men  and 
women  who  from  time  to  time  turn 
over  their  thousands — in  some  cases 
fifty  to  a  hundred  thousand  at  a  time — 
for  the  building  of  their  churches  and 
for  the  accomplishment  of  the  work 
they  desire  to  perform.  I  am  extreme- 
ly thankful  that  there  are  sixty-nine 
thousand  tithepayers  in  the  Church, 
and  I  wish  that  all  of  them  were  so 
prosperous  that  they  could  and  would 
pay  large  amounts  of  means  and  prod- 


ucts into  the  storehouse  of  the  Lord, 
that  there  might  be  wherewith  to  meet 
all  the  necessities  of  the  cause  of  Zion. 

I  want  to  state  here  that  which  is  in 
my  heart.  You  may  call  it  a  prophecy  if 
you  will.  Those  who  are  and  con- 
tinue to  be  enrolled  in  the  book  of  the 
law  of  the  Lord — on  the  tithing  records 
of  the  Church — will  continue  to  prosper,, 
their  substance  will  increase,  and  they 
will  have  added  unto  them  in  greater 
abundance  everything  that  they  need; 
while  those  whose  names  are  not  re- 
corded in  the  book  of  the  law  of  the 
Lord  will  begin  to  diminish  in  that 
which  they  possess,  until  they  will  feel 
sorely  the  chastening  hand  of  God.  I 
do  not  predict  that  as  a  threat.  I  do 
not  do  it  to  scare  the  non-tithepayers 
in  the  least.  You  know,  we  are  great 
American  citizens.  Every  member  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  who  has  come  to  the  United 
States  and  lived  here  long  enough  to 
become  a  citizen,  is  a  citizen  of  this 
great  Republic,  and  we  are  exceedingly 
independent;  we  do  not  scare  worth  a 
cent,  to  use  a  slang  phrase.  I  do  not 
make  this  prediction  to  scare  anybody, 
or  with  a  view  to  working  on  anybody's 
superstitious  feelings.  I  merely  state 
it  as  a  Bible  truth,  as  a 
declaration  of  the  Prophets, 
recorded  in  holy  writ.  I  can 
read  it  to  you  from  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, in  substance;  I  can  read  it  to  you 
from  the  Bible;  for  in  ancient  times  the 
people  of  God  robbed  Him  in  their 
tithes  and  offerings,  until  He  came  out 
against  them,  until  their  land  became 
dust  under  their  feet  and  refused  to 
yield  in  its  strength  unto  them,  they 
were  afflicted,  with  mildew,  with  the 
rust  and  with  the  devouring  insect, 
until  they  were  wasted,  impoverished 
and  brought  down  low,  because  of  their 
disobedience  to  the  command  of  God. 
So  it  is  not  inconsistent  for  me  to  re- 
peat in  principle  that  which  has  been 
declared  by  the  mouths  of  Prophets  in 
ancient  times  respecting  the  obedience 
of  the  people  of  God  to  this  important 
principle  upon  which  we  are  dependent 
for  the  means  of  progress,  increase  ana 
building  up. 

The  tithings  of  the  people  are  not 
used  for  the  aggrandizement  of  rnen. 
They  are  not  used  to  enrich  individuals. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


71 


Some  few.  whose  time  is  entirely  en- 
grossed in  the  labors  of  the  ministry, 
and  who  have  not  time  to  look  out  for 
themselves,  are  allowed  a  pittance,  to 
keep  the  wolf  from  their  doors.  They 
are  permitted  to  have  bread  to  eat,  and 
simple  clothing  to  wear.  But  they  are 
not  allowed  great  salaries,  by  which 
they  can  build  themselves  up  and  be- 
come enriched  at  the  expense  of  the 
people.  I  want  to  tell  you  that  if  I 
were  dependent  upon  what  I  receive 
from  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  for  the  support  of 
myself  and  family,  and  I  had  nothing 
else  to  rely  upon,  my  family  would  go 
hungry;  we  would  go  without  many  of 
the  very  necessary  things  of  life.  I 
have  to  pay  hundreds  of  dollars  every 
year  for  taxes.  We  have  to  provide 
homes  for  our  families,  and  we  are 
bound  to  take  care  of  them.  Not  only 
are  we  bound  to  do  this  by  our  own 
honor  and  covenants,  and  by  the  natur- 
al obligations  which  rest  upon  us;  but 
we  are  bound  to  do  it  even  by  the  .senti- 
ment of  our  enemies.  They  would  con- 
demn us  if  we  did  not  provide  for  our 
families.  Moreover,  the  Bible  says 
that  he  who  will  not  provide 
for  his  own  household  is  worse  than 
an  infidel.  The  result  is,  I  have  a  num- 
ber of  homes  in  Salt  Lake,  on  which  I 
have  to  pay  taxes;  and  when  I  pay  my 
taxes,  my  tithing,  and  my  donations  to 
this,  that,  and  the  other,  I  find  little 
left  to  support  my  family  with.  Hence 
I  say,  jf  I  were  entirely  dependent  upon 
that  which  I  receive  from  the  Church, 
we  would  go  to  bed  hungry.  But  the 
Lord  has  blessed  me  otherwise.  I  have 
been  prospered  in  engaging  in  certain 
enterprises;  and  from  such  sources  I 
am  able  to  derive  some  assistance.  I 
mention  this  simply  to  show  that  these 
men  whose  whole  time  is  occupied  in 
the  ministry  are  only  drawing  their 
necessary  support  from  the  Church. 
They  must  have  that.  You  would  not 
begrudge  them  that.  Men  who  are 
faithful,  valiant,  instant  in  season  and' 
out  of  season,  and  constantly  engaged 
in  the  work  of  the  ministry,  you  surely 
would  not  say  that  they  should  not 
have  food  to  eat,  raiment  to  wear,  and 
where  to  lay  their  heads;  and  that  is  all 
these  men  get  from  the  Church.  The 
laborer  is  certainly  worthy  of  his  hire. 


So  that  your  tithing  is  not  enriching 
your  brethren  of  the  ministry.  It  is  be- 
ing used  to  keep  up  the  ordinances  of 
the  house  of  God  in  these  four  temples. 
Thousands  and  thousands  of  dollars 
of  it  are  being  used  in  educating  the 
youth  of  Zion  and  in  maintaining  the 
Church  schools.  Thousands  of  dollars 
are  being  expended  to  feed  and  clothe 
the  poor,  and  to  take  care  of  those  who 
are  dependent  upon  the  Church.  They 
look  to  their  "mother"  for  succor  and 
support,  and  it  is  right  and  proper  that 
the  Church  should  provide  for  its  own 
poor  and  indigent,  feeble  and  helpless 
so  far  as  possible. 

I  hope  to  see  the  day  when  these  ten 
thousand  non-tithepayers  will  add  their 
mite  to  the  tithes  and  offerings  of  the 
Church,  in  order  that  there  may  be 
more  substance  in  the  storehouse  of 
God  with  which  to  meet  the  necessities 
of  the  work,  and  give  the  servants  of 
the  Lord  an  opportunity  to  do  far  more 
good  than  they  have  means  to  do  with 
today.  If  these  ten  thousand  do  not  do 
it,  I  say  to  you  that  they  will 
not  share  in  the  blessings  of  the 
day  of  the  Lord,  and  when  the  burning 
comes  they  will  get  scorched.  A  pas- 
sage of  Scripture  comes  to  my  mind, 
and  I  will  read  it  to  you.  The  same 
thing  in  substance  is  in  the  Bible:  but 
the  words  I  shall  read  are  to  be  found 
in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  They  are  the 
words  of  Christ  Himself;  therefore  they 
are  true,  for  His  word  is  truth.  There 
is  power  in  His  word,  especially  to 
those  who  obey  it.  When  the  Lord 
visited  this  continent,  after  His  res- 
urrection from  the  dead,  He  gave  in- 
struction after  this  manner: 

"Therefore,  if  ye  do  these  things,  bless- 
ed are  ye,  for  ye  shall  be  lifted  up  at 
the  last  day. 

"Write  the  things  which  ye  have 
seen  and  heard,  save  it  be  those  which 
are  forbidden; 

"Write  the  works  of  this  people, 
which  shall  be,  even  as  hath  been  writ- 
ten, of  that  which  hath  been; 

"For  behold,  out  of  the  books  which 
have  been  written,  and  which  shall  be 
written,  shall  this  people  be  judged,  for 
by  them  shall  their  works  be  known 
unto  men. 

"And  behold,  all  things  are  written, 
by  the  Father;  therefore  out  of  th.> 
books  which  shall  be  written,  shall  the 
world  be  judged. 

"And  know  ye  that  ye  shall  be  judges 
of  this  people,  according  to  the  judg- 


72 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE 


ment  which  I  shall  give  unto  you,  which 
shall  be  just;  therefore  what  manner 
of  men  had  ye  ought  to  be?  Verily  I 
say  unto  you,  even  as  I  am." 

These  are  the  words  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Out  of  the  things  which  have  been  writ- 
ten in  the  books,  this  people  shall  be 
judged,  according  to  their  works.  The 
Lord  shall  make  a  record  also,  and  out 
of  that  shall  the  whole  world  be  judged. 
And  you  men  of  the  holy  Priesthood— 
you  Apostles,  Presidents,  Bishops  and 
High   Priests  in   Zion— will  be  called 
upon  to  be  the  judges  of  the  people. 
Therefore,  it  is  expected  that  you  shall 
set  the  standard  for  them  to  attain  to, 
and  see  that  they  shall  live  according 
to  the  spirit  of  the  Gospel,  do  their 
duty,  and  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord.    You  shall  make  a  record  of 
their  acts.     You  shall    record  when 
they  are  baptized,  when  they  are  con- 
firmed,  and  when  they    receive  the 
Holy  Ghost  by  the  laying  on  of  hands. 
You  shall  record,  when  they  come  to 
Zion,  their  membership  in  the  Church. 
You  shall  record  whether  they  attend 
to   their  duties  as  Priests,  Teachers, 
or    Deacons,   as   Elders,    Seventies,  or 
High    Priests.    You    shall    write  their 
-works,  as  the  Lord  says  here.  You  shall 
record  their  tithings,  and  give  them 
credit  for  that  which  they  do;  and  the 
Lord  will  determine  the  difference  be- 
tween the  credit  which  they  make  for 
themselves  and  the  credit  which  they 
should  make.  The  Lord  will  judge  be- 
tween us  in  that  respect;  but  we  shall 
judge  the  people,  first  requiring  them 
to  do  their  duty.    In  order  to  do  that, 
those  who  stand  at  the  head  must  set 
the  example.    They  must  walk  in  the 
right  path,  and  invite  the  people,  to 
follow  them.    They  should  not  seek  to 
drive  the  people;  they  should  not  seek 
to  become  rulers;  but  they  should  be 
brethren  arid  leaders  of  the  people. 

It  is  a  strange  tl^ng  to  me  that  some 
people  do  not  or  will  not  see  the  truth. 
This  brings  to  my  mind  another  pas- 
sage of  scripture.  I  will  take  the  lib- 
erty of  reading  a  few  more  words  from 
the  Book  of  Mormon; 

"O  that  cunning  plan  of  the  evil  one! 
O  the  vainness,  and  the  frailties,  and 
the  foolishness  of  men!  When  the> 
are  learned,  they  think  they  are  wise, 
and  they  hearken  not  unto  the  coun- 
sel of  God,  for  they  set  it  aside,  sup- 


posing they  know  of  themselves; 
wherefore,  their  wisdom  is  foolishness, 
and  it  profiteth  them  not.  And  they 
shall  perish." 

Here  is  a  reason  why  many  people 
do  not  and  will  not  allow  themselves  to 
see  the  truth.  They  depend  upon  their 
own  knol wedge  and  wisdom;  therefore 
they  set  aside  the  things  of  God,  and 
lift  themselves  up  in  the  pride  of  their 
own  hearts.  But  the  Lord  hath  said, 
they  shall  perish;  and  I  will  not  con- 
tradict it.    The  Prophet  continues; 

"But  to  be  learned  is  good,  if  they 
hearken  unto  the  counsels  of  God." 

There  is  the  difficulty.  If  you  can 
get  learned  men  that  will  hearken  un- 
to the  counsels  of  God,  they  are  all 
right;  but  if  they  will  not  hearken  unto 
the  counsels  of  God,  their  learning  is 
foolishness  in  the  sight  of  the  Lord; 
and  with  all  their  learning  and  cunning 
they  will  perish. 

"But  wo  unto  the  rich,  who  are  rich 
as  to  the  things  of  the  world.  For  be- 
cause they  are  rich,  they  despise  the 
poor,  and  they  persecute  the  meek,  and 
their  hearts  are  upon  their  treasures; 
wherefore  their  treasure  is  their  god. 
And  behold,  their  treasure  shall  perish 
with  them  also." 

Here  follows  a  key: 

"And  wo  unto  the  deaf,  that  will  not 
hear;  for  they  shall  perish. 

"Wo  unto  the  blind,  that  will  not  see; 
for  they  shall  perish  also. 

We  pity  the  blind  who  cannot  see; 
God  will  extend  mercy  and  forgiveness 
to  them;  but  wo  unto  the  blind  who 
WILL  not  see! 

"Wo  unto  the  uncircumcised  of  heart; 
for  a  knowledge  of  their  iniquities  shall 
smite  them  at  the  last  day. 

"Wo  unto  the  liar;  for  he  shall  be 
thrust  down  to  hell. 

"Wo  unto  the  murderer,  who  deliber- 
ately killeth;  for   he  shall  die. 

"Wo  unto  them  who  commit  whore- 
doms; for  they  shall  be  thrust  down  to 
hell.  I 

"Yea,  wo  unto  those  that  worship 
idols;  for  the  devil  of  all  devils  delight- 
eth  in  them. 

"And,  in  fine,  wo  unto  all  those  who 
die  in  their  sins;  for  they  shall  return 
toi  God,  and  behold  his  face,  and  remain 
in  their  sins." 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  I  desire  to 
bear  my  testimony  to  you;  for  I  have 
received  an  assurance  which  has  taken 
possession  of  my  whole  being.  It  has 
sunk  deep  into  my  heart:  it  fills  every 
fibre  of  my  soul;  so  that  I  feel  to  say 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 


73 


before  this  people,  and  would  be  pleased 
to  have  the  privilege  of  saying  it  before 
the  whole  world,  that  God  has  revealed 
unto  me  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Son  of  the  living  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world;  that  Joseph  Smith,  is,  was, 
and  always  will  be  a  prophet  of  God, 
ordained  and  chosen  to  stand  at  the 
head  of  the  dispensation  of  the  fulness 
of  times,  the  keys  of  which  were  given 
to  him,  and  he  will  hold  them  until  the 
winding-up  scene — keys  which  will  un- 
lock the  door  into  the  kingdom  of  God 
to  every  man  who  is  worthy  to  enter, 
and  which  will  close  that  door  against 
every  soul  that  will  not  obey  the  law  of 
God.  I  know,  as  I  live,  that  this  is  true, 
and  I  bear  my  testimony  to  its 
truth.  If  it  were  the  last  words 
I  should  ever  say  on  earth,  I 
would  glory  before  God  my  Father  that 
I  possess  this  knowledge  in  my  soul, 
which  I  declare  unto  you  as  I  would 
the  simplest  truths  of  heaven.  I  know 
that  this  is  the  kingdom  of  God,  and 
that  God  is  at  the  helm.  He  presides 
over  His  people.  He  presides  over  the 
President  of  this  Church,  and  has  done 
from  the  Prophet  Joseph  down  to  the 
Prophet  Lorenzo;  and  He  will  continue 
to  preside  over  the  leaders  of  this 
Church  until  the  winding-up  scene.  He 
will  not  suffer  it  to  be  given  to  another 
people,  nor  to  be  left  to  men.  He  will 
hold  the  reins  in  His  own  hands;  for 
He  has  stretched  out  His  arm  to  do  His 
work,  and  He  will  do  it,  and  have  the 
honor  of  it.  At  the  same  time  God  will 
honor  and  magnify  His  servants  in  the 
sight  of  the  people.  He  will  sustain 
them  in  righteousness;  He  will  lift  them 
on  high,  exalt  them  into  His  presence, 
and  they  will  partake  of  His  glory  for- 
ever and  ever.  It  is  the  Lord's  work, 
and  I  plead  with  you  not  to  forget  it. 
I  implore  you  not  to  disbelieve  it;  for 
it  is  true.  All  that  the  Lord  has  said 
concerning  this  latter-day  work  will 
come  to  pass.  The  world  cannot  pre- 
vent it.  The  blind  that  will  not  see, 
the  deaf  that  will  not  hear,  cannot  pre- 
vent the  work  from  going  on.  They 
may  throw  blocks  before  the  wheels, 
they  may  ridicule,  they  may  malign, 
they  may  stir  up  the  spirit  of  persecu- 
tion and  bitterness  against  the  Saints, 
they  may  do  all  in  their  power  to  de- 
ceive the  people  and  lead  them  astray; 


but  God  is  at  the  helm,  and  He  will 
lead  His  people  to  victory.  Men  and 
women  may  be  deceived  by  the  crafti- 
ness of  the  adversary  and  by  the  spirit 
of  darkness  that  is  in  the  world;  they 
may  be  deceived  with  Christian  Science, 
with  hypnotism,  with  animal  magnet- 
ism, with  mesmerism,  with  spiritualism, 
and  with  all  the  other  man-made  and 
demon-stimulated  isms  which  exist  in 
the  world;  but  the  elect  of  God  shall 
see  and  know  the  truth.  They  will  not 
be  blind,  because  they  will  see;  they 
will  not  be  deaf,  because  they  will  hear; 
and  they  will  walk  in  the  light,  as  God 
is  in  the  light,  that  they  may 
have  fellowship  with  Jesus  Christ,  and 
that  His  blood  may  cleanse  them 
from  all  their  sins.  May  God  help  us  to 
do  this.  May  He  deliver  us  from  se- 
cret combinations,  and  from  the  snares 
that  are  set  to  entrap  our  feet  and  to 
win  our  affections  from  the  kingdom  of 
God.  I  repeat  what  I  have  said  scores 
of  times,  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  good 
enough  for  me.  This  organization  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  meets  all  my  wants,  and  I  have 
no  need  to  fly  to  organizations  that  are 
gotten  up  by  men  for  the  purpose  of 
making  money.  I  pray  God  that  His 
kingdom  may  be  sufficient  for  you,  that 
you  may  abide  in  the  truth,  and  not 
be  led  away  by  these  deceptive  spirits 
that  have  gone  forth  in  the  world  to 
lead  men  astray.  Spiritualism  started 
in  the  United  States  about  the  time  that 
Joseph  Smith  received  his  visions  from 
the  heavens.  What  more  natural  than 
that  Lucifer  should  begin  revealing 
himself  to  men  in  his  cunning  way,  in 
order  to  deceive  them  and  to  distract 
their  minds  from  the  truth  that  God 
was  revealing?  And  he  has  kept  it  up 
pretty  well  ever  since.  May  God  bless 
Israel,  and  preserve  us  in  the  truth. 
May  He  bless  our  President,  prolong  his 
years,  and  continue  unto  him  the 
strength  of  body  and  mind  that  he  pos- 
sesses this  day,  and  even  more  vigor  as 
the  years  roll  on.  May  the  Lord  have 
mercy  upon  our  beloved  brother,  Presi- 
dent Cannon,  who  is  absent  from  us, 
and  return  him  once  more  to  his  home 
and  to  the  bosom  of  the  Church,  if  He 
has  not  willed  otherwise.  This  is  my 
humble  prayer,  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


74 


GENERAL,  CONFERENCE. 


The  choir  sang  the  anthem:  The  stenographic  work  in  taking  an 
"Praise  the  Lord,  all  ye  nations."  account  of  the  proceedings  of  the  Con- 
Benediction  by  Elder  Francis  M.  Ly-  ference  was  done  by  Arthur  Winter, 
man.  JOHN  NICHOLSON. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months.  Clerk  of  Conference. 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION. 


Its  Semi-Annual  General  Conference. 


Assistant  General  Superintendent 
George  Reynolds  presiding-. 

There  were  present,  of  the  members 
of  the  Board,  Elders  George  Reynolds, 
Thomas  C.  Griggs,  Levi  W.  Richards, 
Francis  M.  Lyman,  Heber  J.  Grant, 
Joseph  M.  Tanner,  George  Teasdale, 
Andrew  Kimball,  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
John  W.  Taylor,  L.  John  Nuttall,  James 
W.  TJre,  John  F.  Bennett,  William  D. 
Owen,  Seymour  B.  Young,  George  D. 
Pyper,  Henry  Peterson  and  Anthon  H. 
Lund. 

The  Salt  Lake  Stake  Sunday  School 
Choir,  conducted  by  Prof.  Evan  Steph- 
ens, opened  the  Conference  by  singing, 
"The  Cause  of  Truth." 

Prayer  was  offered  by  Elder  Andrew 
Kimball. 

The  choir  sang,  "Welcome,  Welcome, 
Sabbath  Morning." 

ASSISTANT    GENERAL  SUPERIN- 
TENDENT GEORGE  REYNOLDS. 

The  sickness  of  our  beloved  Superin- 
tendent, and  the  death  of  our  First  As- 
sistant, Dr.  Karl  G.  Maeser,  leaves  it 
with  me  to  welcome  you  this  evening. 
I  am  gratified  to  see  so  many  present, 
and  trust  that  all  will  endeavor  to  be- 
come instructed  and  edified  by  what 
they  may  hear  and  see  this  evening. 
We  have  come  here  as  representatives 
and  students  of  the  great  Sunday 
School  cause,  a  cause  which  Brother 
Goddard  often  used  to  remind  us  was 
the  largest  of  all  the  auxilliary  organi- 
zations in  the  midst  of  God's  people  in 
these  latter  days.  And  we  are  still 
growing,  though  I  regret  to  say,  (owing 
perhaps  more  than  anything  else  to  the 
prevailing  epidemics),  our  increase  dur- 
ing the  last  year  has  not  been  as  large 
proportionately  as  in  some  former 
years.  This  I  trust  will  receive  the 
consideration  of  our  brethren  who 
locally  preside  in  our  Sunday  Schools, 
that  none  of  the  children  in  our  midst 


who  should  be  at  Sunday  School  may  be" 
absent,  but  that  they  be  looked  after. 
We  want  them  all,  we  are  working  for 
them  all.     We  desire  to  have  them  all 
come  within     the     influence     of  our 
schools.      In  comparing  the  statistics 
found  in  the  Church  reports,  showing 
the  total  number  of  souls  in  the  various 
Stakes  of  Zion  and    then  comparing 
these      numbers    with    the  average 
attendance    at    the      Sunday  Schools 
each  Sabbath  morning,     we  discover 
that  in  quite  a  number  of  the  Stakes 
more  than  one-third  of  the  entire  popu- 
lation is  to  be  found  in  the  Sunday 
School  each  Sabbath  morning,  and  in 
the  great  majority  of  the  stakes  be- 
tween one-third  and  one-fourth.  Only 
in  one  Stake  is  less  than  one-fifth  to  be 
found.    This  speaks  well  for  our  prog- 
ress and   I  think  that  as  in  several 
Stakes  more  than  one-third  of  the  en- 
tire number  of  the  people  of  God,  grown 
up  and  children,  manage  to  be  in  at- 
tendance each  Sunday,  that  this  should 
be  an  incentive  to  others  that  as  large 
a  proportion  may  be  found  in  all. 

PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  F.  SMITH. 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  speaking  in 
reference  to  our  beloved  general  super- 
intendent, President  George  Q.  Cannon. 
I  am  happy  to  inform  you  that  I  re- 
ceived a  telephone  message  from  the 
President's  office  a  short  time  ago,  stat- 
ing that  President  Snow  had  received  a 
telegraphic  message  in  which  it  was 
stated  that  those  in  attendance  upon 
Brother  Cannon  think  that  his  condi- 
tion this  afternoon  has  somewhat  im- 
proved, and  we  feel  very  grateful  fc«r 
this  good  news. 

ELDER  SEYMOUR  B.  YOUNG. 

My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  and 
young  people  of  the  Sunday  schools,  my 
remarks  as  already  announced  will  per- 
tain more  particularly  and  especially  to 
Dr.  Karl  G.  Maeser,  our  late  first  as- 


7tj 


DESEEET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


sistant  superintendent  of  Sunday 
Schools.  Dr.  Maeser  was  born,  as  many 
of  you  are  aware,  in  Saxony,  Germany, 
on  January  16,  1828,  and  died  in  this 
city  on  the  morning  of  February  15, 
1901.  He  emigrated  to  Utah  in  the 
early  sixties,  and  became  acquainted 
with  the  Prophet  Brigham  Young  soon 
after  his  arrival  in  Salt  Lake  City. 
President  Brigham  Young  had  in  his 
•  heart  and  mind  for  a  number  of  years 
the  starting  of  an  educational  institu- 
tion that  would  be  a  lasting  benefit  to 
the  Latter-day  Saints,  and  he  chose  the 
city  of  Provo  as  the  place  at  which  this 
institution  should  be  located,  and  se- 
lected Elder  Karl  G.  Maeser, 
to  be  the  chief  instructor.  While  in 
Salt  Lake  City  it  is  said  that  Brother 
Maeser's  circumstances  were  very  poor, 
and  the  following  story  is  told  illus- 
trating his  condition.  One  afternoon  he 
was  invited  by  a  family  whose  children 
were  attending  the  school  taught  by 
Brother  Maeser,  to  dine  with  them. 
When  Brother  Maeser  had  partaken  of 
the  good  things  set  before  him.  he  said 
to  the  good  sister  of  the  hous?.  "Sis- 
ter So  and  So,  I  was  very  hungry  when 
I  came  here,  but  I  have  eaten  of  the 
good  thing's  of  your  table  till  I  am  sat- 
isfied, but  my  family  at  home  are  hun- 
gry too,  and  I  would  like  very  much 
to  have  your  consent  to  take  some  of 
the  choice  viands  from  the  table  and 
carry  them  home  to  my  wife  and  child- 
ren." And  the  request  I  need  not  say. 
was  gladly  granted.  Brother  Maeser 
went  home  glad  in  his  heart  that  he 
could  share  the  feast  of  that  afternoon 
with  his  own  familv.  I  recite  this  to 
you,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  to  show 
you  the  humility  of  the  man.  and 
wherever  he  hps  been  known  since  that 
day,  whether  in  good  circumstances  or 
in  poverty,  it  has  made  no  difference 
to  him,  his  life  record  has  gone  on  all 
the  same.  He  has  been  the  same  devot- 
ed, earnest  worker  in  the  cause  that  he 
loved  so  well,  namely,  the  teaching  of 
the  children  of  Zion.  Finally,  President 
Young  established  him  in  the  institu- 
tion at  Provo,  as  I  have  before  men- 
tioned. While  he  was  engaged  in  teach- 
ing, in  the  early  years  of  that  institu- 
tion, in  the  old  brick  building  that  was 
formerly  the  property  of  Brother  Lewis, 
and    was    at    one    time    used    as  a 


storehouse,  I  was  witness  to  a  cir- 
cumstance that  I  have  never  for- 
gotten, and  that  I  would1  like  to 
repeat.  In  the  recitation  room,  a 
class  was  reciting  under  one  of  the  in- 
structors whom  Brother  Maeser  had 
chosen  from  his  monitors  to  instruct 
the  class  in  elocution.  In  the  instruc- 
tions they  were  reading  the  poem  that 
is  termed  "The  Epaminondas  of  Mod- 
ern Greece,"  and  in  that  poem  there  are 
lines  something  like  this: 

"Strike,  till  the  last  armed  foe  expires, 
Strike,  for  your  altars  and  your  flres, 
Strike,   for  the  green  graves  of  your 
sires, 

God,  and  your  native  land." 

The  young  man  who  was  teaching  the 
class  was  doing  it  with  but  very  little 
spirit;  in  a  lackadaisical  sort  of  way  he 
was  saying  to  the  class — 

"Strike,  till  the  last  armed  foe  expires, 
Strike,   

Brother  Maeser  listened  a  moment, 
sprang  from  his  seat  at  the  other  end 
of  the  room,  rushed  across  to  the  class 
and,  snatchinp-  the  book  from  the 
"oung  man,  said:  "This  will  never  do. 
You  must  get  some  spirit  in  your  les- 
sons or  you  will  never  succeed.  When 
you  read  this,"  he  said,  "  you  must 
not  say—  "S  t  r  i  k  e,"  you  must  say 
"S  T  R  I  K  E."  The  result  was,  the 
entire  school  wras  electrified,  and  every- 
one from  that  moment  drank  into  the 
spirit  of  their  leader. 

It  was  said  he  was  approached  many 
times  in  the  early  days  of  the  Brig- 
ham Young  Academy,  with  of- 
fers of  a  larger  salary  if  he 
would  remove  from  Utah  to  the 
Eastern  States,  where  he  could  have 
a  greater  and  wider  field  for  his  labors 
with  better  pay,  for  his  fame  began  to 
go  abroad,  and  people  commenced 
to  learn,  of  his  worth  as  a  teacher  and 
an  instructor  among  the  young.  But 
Brother  Maeser's  invariable  reply  was, 
like  that  of  Dr.  Agassiz.  Said  he:  "I 
have  no  time  to  devote  to  making 
money,  and  no  time  to  waste  upon  that 
thought."  He  remained  faithful  and 
true  to  the  institution  that  he  was  en- 
gaged, to  instruct  and  to  be  a  father  to 
by  President  Brigham  Young,  and  he 
made  it  a  grand  success  by  his  per- 
sonality, bringing  it  to  be  one  of  the 
leading  institutions  of  this  great  West, 
stamping  upon  it  a  name  and  a  fame 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


that  shall  never  die,  and  bringing  into 
culture  the  minds  of  thousands  of 
young  Latter-day  Saints  who  will  re- 
member Karl  G.  Maeser  while  life,  and 
thought,  and  being  last,  or  immortality 
endures.  Brother  Maeser  was  faithful 
to  his  trust.  He  was  true  in  every- 
thing committed  to  his  hand;  he  was 
a  father  to  the  children  that  he  taught, 
he  was  one  of  the  leaders  in  the  Sun- 
day School  and  the  religion  class  causes, 
and  his  constant  teachings  and  example 
will  be  long  remembered  by  the  youth 
of  Zion.  Of  Karl  G.  Maeser  it  may  be 
truly  said, 

"We  tell  of  his  death  without  a  sigh, 
For  he  is  freedom's  now  and  fame's; 
One  of  the  few  immortal  names, 

That  were  not  born  to  die." 

The  General  Secretary,  Elder  Horace 
S.  Ensign,  then  called  the  roll  of  Stakes; 
read  the  annual  report  for  the  year  end- 
ing December  31st,  1900;  and  then  pre- 
sented the  Sunday  School  authorities, 
which  were  unanimously  sustained. 

Elder  George  Reynolds,  as  Treasurer, 
reported  the  amount  of  nickel  fund  re- 
cenved  for  1900. 

The  Salt  Lake  Stake  Sunday  school 
choir  then  sang  "The  Holy  City." 

ELDER  JOSEPH  M.  TANNER. 
As  all  our  Sabbath  school  workers  are 
aware,  we  have  already  held  our  sec- 
ond Sunday  school  convention.  Both 
conventions  were  held  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  in  this  city.  The  second  indicated 
an  increase  in  numbers  over  the  first, 
and  in  both  instances  a  program  had 
been  carefully  arranged  so  that  instruc- 
tion and  inspiration  were  afforded  to  all 
those  who  took  part.  The  second  con- 
vention, of  which  I  am  to  speak  tonight, 
clearly  indicated  the  wisdom  of  these 
gatherings,  and  the  minutes  of  that 
convention,  as  published  in  the  Juvenile 
Instructor,  give  you  some  idea  of  the 
character  of  the  instructions,  even 
though  you  may  not  feel  or  sense  the 
spirit  of  the  gathering.  I  have  no  doubt 
that  those  who  were  present  at  this 
convention  were  the  foremost  workers 
in  the  Sunday  school  cause.  The  spirit 
of  the  occasion  was  marked  and  the  in- 
fluence upon  the  Sunday  school  work 
has  been  very  strong,  and  I  take  it 
that  we  all  feel  that  the  Sunday  school 
convention  has  now  become,  in  a  man- 


ner, a  permanent  part  of  the  organiza- 
tion of  this  department  of  the  Lord's 
vineyard. 

I  could  not  this  evening  more  than 
mention  the  great  number  of  topics  that 
were  discussed.  Some  of  these  topics, 
however,  are  of  far  reaching  conse- 
quence to  our  schools,  and  one  or  two 
may  be  called  to  the  attention  of  the 
Sabbath  school  workers  tonight  with 
the  thought  that  their  importance  may 
be  emphasized  in  your  future  labors. 
The  Union  Board  had  had  for  some 
time  under  discussion  the  text  books 
to  be  used  In  our  schools,  and  after  due 
deliberation,  under  the  guidance  of 
President  Cannon,  it  was  decided  that 
the  Bible,  the  Book  of  Mormon,  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants,  and  the  Pearl 
of  Great  Price  should  be  our  text  books 
in  the  Sabbath  schools.  President  Can- 
non himself  spoke  at  some  length  upon 
this  subject,  and  answered  questions 
that  were  propounded  by  those  present. 
And  this  calls  to  our  mind  at  this  time, 
especially  those  of  us  who  have  been- 
engaged  for  some  years  in  the  Sunday 
school  work,  something  of  a  change  that 
has  come  over  us.  You  will  many  of 
you  remember  that  in  earlier  times  it 
was  the  custom  to  memorize  a  great 
many  passages  from  the  Scriptures. 
We  issued  tickets  with  verses  from 
the  Bible  upon  them,  and  these 
tickets  were  collected  by  the  students, 
who  memorized  the  passages  and  kept 
until  a  certain  number  was  received, 
and  then  a  prize  was  given  therefor.  It 
may  be  true  that  in  those  days  we  went 
to  extremes  in  the  way  of  memorizing. 
Now  in  our  efforts  to  teach  the  word  of 
the  Lord  we  perhaps  overlook  the 
spirit,  and  we  gradually  begin  to  draw 
away  from  the  language  of  the  scrip- 
tures and  give  our  instructions  in  our 
own  language,  any  language  which  we 
believe  will  be  most  suitable  to  the  un- 
derstanding of  the  children,  until  now 
we  have  ceased  almost  wholly  to  mem- 
orize important  passages  of  holy  writ: 
and  I  suspect  that  we  have  gone  al- 
ready too  far  in  the  other  direction.  We 
are  too  greatly  substituting  or  have 
been  substituting  explanations  of  the 
scriptures  for  the  scriptures  them- 
selves; and  one  idea  that  the  brethren 
have  is  that  the  children  and  also  the 
older  members  in  the  theological  class 


78 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


should  drink  from  the  fountain  head  of 
inspiration  as  it  comes  to  us  direct 
from  holy  writ,  and  not  depart  entire- 
ly from  the  original  text  for  the  infor- 
mation which  we  desire  to  impart  to 
the  children.  And  we  take  it  that  it  is 
-desirable  that  our  children  should 
learn  to  memorize  important  passages; 
such  that  will  leave  a  strong  impres- 
sion upon  their  lives;  scriptural  pas- 
sages that  they  will  use  as  their  guid- 
ing star;  scriptural  passages  that  will 
help  to  form  convictions  in  their  minds 
of  right  and  wrong;  scriptural  passages 
that  will  bring  conviction  to  their 
hearts.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  we 
could  not  hear  the  voice  of  Christ  and 
His  disciples,  we  may  read  their  words 
measurably  as  they  uttered  them,  in  so 
far  as  they  have  been  translated  for 
us  correctly,  and  I  trust,  therefore,  my 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  in  our  Sun- 
day schools  we  will  in  the  future  place 
more  importance  upon  this  branch  of 
the  work,  which  it  is  believed  for  some 
time  has  been  in  some  measure  neg- 
lected. We  are  likely  to  go  to  extremes, 
either  one  way  or  the  other,  and  this 
the  convention  had  in  view  in  the  dis- 
cussion of  the  best  methods  of  instruc- 
tion, and  the  best  means  of  presenting 
the  subjects  to  our  children.  But  we 
have  also  kept  in  mind,  what  is  an  im- 
portant matter,  something  that  may  be 
repeated  again  and  again,  that  it  is  the 
mission  of  the  Sabbath  school  to  teach 
the  children  how  to  feel  as  well  as  how 
to  think.  If  we  can  fill  their  minds 
with  pure  thoughts,  and  their  hearts 
with  pure  feelings,  we  are  sure  that 
they  will  have  a  more  certain  guidance 
in  their  lives  than  they  could  other- 
wise have.  In  concluding,  I  desire  to 
commend  to  all  the  Sabbath  schools 
everywhere  the  importance  in  the  fu- 
ture of  attending  these  conventions. 
Bring  with  you  the  spirit  of  your  work, 
ask  those  questions  that  convey  the 
ideas  upon  which  you  desire  more  light 
and  help,  in  order  that  the  Sabbath 
School  may  grow  in  numbers,  grow  in 
the  strength  of  its  spirit  until  it  shall 
be  the  glory  of  Zion,  for  I  know  of  no 
work  that  is  more  pleasant  and  satis- 
factory than  to  labor  among  the  chil- 
dren. I  know  that  it  is  of  God.  I  re- 
joice that  such  an  organization  is  in 
the  midst  of  Israel,  with  its  high,  ele- 


vated and  inspiring  aims;  and  may  God 
grant  us  His  blessings  in  our  labors 
of  love  is  my  prayer  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

Apostle  Heber  J.  Grant  sang  "O  My 
Father." 

ELDER  HORACE  S.  ENSIGN. 

My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  as- 
sure you  that  it  is  with  a  feeling  of 
much  timidity  that  I  stand  before  you 
this  evening,  and  I  trust  that  for  the 
few  moments  that  I  may  stand  here 
that  I  may  have  your  attention,  and 
that  I  may  be  blessed  with  the  Spirit  of 
God.  I  am  truly  thankful  that  I  live 
in  this  day  and  age,  when  God  has  es- 
tablished His  Church  and  Kingdom  up- 
on the  earth,  and  His  Sunday  schools 
have  been  organized,  whereby  the  youth 
of  Zion  may  be  taught  the  principles  ot 
the  Gospel,  that  they  may  grow  up  in  a 
knowledge  of  the  truth;  that  they  may 
gain  a  knowledge  of  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  He  sent.  I  am  thankful 
that  I  am  associated  with  the  Sunday 
schools  and  I  regret  that  my  labors  will 
soon  terminate,  at  least  here  at  home, 
amongst  them.  Not  that  I  regret  that 
I  have  been  called  upon  another  mis- 
sion, for  I  assure  you  that  I  consider 
that  I  have  been  honored  among  men 
to  feel  and  to  know  that  I  have  the 
esteem,  the  love,  and  the  confidence  of 
one  of  the  true  witnesses  of  Jesus 
Christ,  even  one  of  our  Apostles,  and 
that  he  is  desirous  of  taking  me  into 
the  nations  of  the  earth  to  assist  him  in 
preaching  the  Gospel  unto  those  who 
lie  in  darkness.  I  am  not  going  into  the 
world  without  a  testimony  of  the  Gos- 
pel, and  I  am  not  going  into  the  land  of 
the  Mikado  without  realizing  that  a 
great  responsibility  is  resting  upon 
those  who  have  been  called  to  open 
up  the  Gospel  in  that  land.  The  Gospel 
has  never  been  preached  to  those  peo- 
ple, and  I  doubt  if  they  have  ever 
heard  anything  about  it  except  a  few 
who  may  have  been  in  the  United 
States.  I  realize  that  we  will  have  to 
teach  the  people  of  this  land  that  Jesus 
is  the  Christ,  and  that  God  is  His 
Father.  We  will  also  have  to  teach 
them  to  believe  in  the  Holy  Scriptures. 
I  trust,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
while  we  sojourn  in  that  land  that  we 
may  be  blessed  with  an  interest  in  your 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


faith  and  prayers,  for  I  assure  you  that 
I  feel  humble,  I  feel  weak,  and  I  have 
no  other  desire  in  my  heart  than  to 
do  all  the  good  I  can,  and  I  know  that 
without  an  interest  in  your  faith  and 
prayers  that  it  will  be  impossible  for  me 
to  be  of  service  to  God  in  the  land 
where  I  have  been  sent,  and  where  I 
expect  to  go.  I  assure  you  that  I  shall 
always  remember  my  experience  and 
my  labors  in  the  Sabbath  schools,  and  I 
only  hope  that  it  may  be  my  privilege 
to  take  up  my  labors  again  in  this  ca- 
pacity when  I  return,  for  I  realize  that 
the  Sunday  School  is  the  soil  where  the 
Gospel  seed  is  first  planted,  where  it  is 
nourished,  and  where  we  And  it  natural- 
ly reaches  its  maturity.  My  brethren 
and  sisters,  I  desire  to  bear  my  testi- 
mony unto  you,  tonight,  that  I  know 
that  this  is  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
I  know  that  it  is  true,  and  I  know  that 
if  I  am  steadfast  and  serve  God  and 
keep  His  commandments  that  I  shall  be 
saved  and  exalted  in  His  kingdom.  It 
is  not  because  I  have  seen  the  sick 
healed,  because  I  have  seen  devils  cast 
out,  or  that  I  have  been  inspired  of  Al- 
mighty God  that  I  know  this,  it  is  be- 
cause that  still  small  voice  says  unto 
me,  "Elder  Ensign,  this  is  truth,  this 
is  the  straight  and  narrow  way,  walk 
ye  in  it,  and  ye  will  be  saved  and  ex- 
alted in  the  kingdom  of  God."  May 
we  all  be  saved  is  my  prayer,  and  I 
ask  it  in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

APOSTLE   HEBER   J.  GRANT. 

I  have  been  appointed  tonight  to 
speak  upon  the  subject  ,  of  the  purchase 
of  the  Juvenile  Instructor,  and  also  up- 
on the  plan  for  its  payment.  The  fol- 
lowing circular  with  regard  to  the  pur- 
chase of  the  Juvenile  will  be  sent  to 
each  ward  Sunday  School  Superintend- 
ent in  all  the  Stakes  of  Zion: 

THE  PURCHASE    OF    THE  JUVE- 
NILE INSTRUCTOR. 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  April  10,  1901. 

Superintendency  of  Ward 

Sunday  School, 

 Stake. 

Dear  Brethren: — You  are  doubtless 
aware  that  at  a  special  meeting  of  the 


General  Sunday  School  Union  Board, 
Stake  Superintendents  and  Sunday 
School  officers,  held  in  Salt  Lake  City, 
October  5th,  1900,  the  purchase  of  the 
"Juvenile  Instructor"  from  President 
George  y.  Cannon  by  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  was  favorably  enter- 
tained and  a  committee  of  three  was 
appointed  to  consummate  negotiations 
to  that  end.  This  was  accomplished  and 
on  January  1st,  1901,  the  ownership  of 
the  "Juvenile  Instructor,"  held  by  Pres- 
ident Cannon  for  thirty-five  years, 
passed,  for  a  consideration  of  five  thou- 
sand dollars  to  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union.  By  giving  our  note 
bearing  6  per  cent  interest  for  that 
amount,  the  money  was  obtained  and 
the  transaction  was  closed. 

The  extended  growth  of  the  Union 
made  it  very  desirable  that  it  should 
have  an  organ  of  its  own,  and  it  seemed 
eminently  fitting  that  the  "Juvenile  In- 
structor," so  long  and  favorably  known 
in  the  community,  and  so  great  a  fac- 
tor in  the  development  of  the  Sunday 
School  work  of  the  Church,  should  be 
that  organ,  hence  the  purchase.  To 
meet  the  obligations  thus  incurred,  and 
end  the  outlay  for  interest  thereon,  it 
has  been  decided  by  the  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board,  which  recommen- 
dation was  accepted  by  the  vote  of  the 
General  Conference  of  the  Sunday 
Schools  held  in  Salt  Lake  City,  April 
7th,  1901,  to  ask  each  Sunday  School  to 
contribute  on  Sunday,  April  28th,  1901, 
or  as  soon  after  that  date  as  practica- 
ble, an  amount  equal  to  not  less  than 
five  cents  each  for  every  officer,  teacher 
and  pupil  enrolled  on  the  school  record 
December  31st,  1900.  To  facilitate  this 
collection  we  herewith  enclose  suitable 
prepared  blanks,  suggesting  that  the 
Secretary  enter  on  the  list  printed  in 
red  ink  the  names  of  every  officer  and 
teacher  on  the  school  roll  and  on  the 
others  the  names  of  every  pupil  in  the 
several  departments;  then  place  or  have 
placed  opposite  the  names  of  all  who 
donate  the  amount  of  their  subscription. 
While  no  contribution  of  more  than 
five  cents  is  asked  from  any  one  per- 
son, yet  if  any,  out  of  the  kindness  of 
their  hearts,  feel  to  give  more  it  should 
not  be  declined.  If  the  total  collected 
be  equal  to  five  cents  each  for  the  en- 
tire enrollment,  or  a  little  in  excess 
thereof,  it  will  be  ample.  When  the 
contributions  have  been  received  send 
the  funds  promptly  by  check  or  money 
order  in  the  enclosed  envelope,  prop- 
erly stamped,  together  with  the  lists, 
to  Elder  George  Reynolds,  Box  B,  Salt 
Lake  City,  Utah.  The  lists  when  re- 
turned to  us  will  be  preserved,  thus 
affording  the  first  entire  roll  of  our 
Sunday  schools  ever  collected.  The 
name  of  the  school  and  Stake,  with 
amount  subscribed,  will  at  an  early 
date  be  published  in  the  "Juvenile  In- 
structor." Trusting  this  step  may  com- 
mend itself  to  your  hearty  approval  and 


80 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


effort,  and  that  of  those  over  whom 
you  preside,  we  remain. 

Your  Brethren, 
THE    DESERET    SUNDAY  SCHOOL 
UNION  BOARD. 

GEORGE  Q.  CANNON, 

General  Superintendent. 
HORACE  S.  ENSIGN, 
Secretary. 

It  is  proposed,  That  we  as  the 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union,  in  con- 
ference assembled,  sustain  the  recom- 
mendation made  by  the  Deseret  Sun- 
day School  Union  Board,  that  on  Sun- 
day, April  28th,  1901,  or  as  soon  after 
that  date  as  possible,  each  and  every 
school  in  the  Union,  embraced  in  our 
Stake  organizations,  do  collect  an 
amount  equal  to  at  least  5  cents  for 
every  member  enrolled  therein,  as  per 
the  report  of  their  total  enrollment  De- 
cember 31st,  1900.  The  funds  thus  col- 
lected to  be  applied  in  the  payment  of 
the  purchase  price  of  the  "Juvenile  In- 
structor," and  that  we  will  use  our  best 
endeavors  to  that  end. 

All  in  favor  of  endorsing  this  motion, 
and  this  circular  letter,  as  per  the  un- 
derstanding in  our  convention,  will 
make  it  manifest  by  showing  the  right 
hand.    (The  vote  was  unanimous). 

I  wish  to  say  that  I  myself  will  take 
pride  in  contributing  my  nickel,  and  I 
shall  try  to  contribute  more  than  one 
nickel,  at  least  two,  and  perhaps  sev- 
eral hundred  of  them.  I  believe  that 
the  "Juvenile"  will  be  of  very  great 
value,  in  fact  I  not  only  believe  it,  but 
I  know  that  it  will  be.  I  think  that  we, 
as  parents,  should  have  that  magazine 
in  our  homes,  and  that  we  should  give 
it  our  unqualified  support  and  encour- 
age our  children  in  reading  the  very 
good  articles  that  are  in  it.  I  look  back 
to  my  boyhood  days  and  remember 
reading  many  things  in  the  "Juvenile" 
that  made  a  lasting  impression  on  my 
mind  for  good.  The  Deseret  Sunday 
School  Union  Board  are  not  publishing 
this  magazine  for  any  personal  advan- 
tage. They  are  simply  publishing  it  to 
benefit  your  children  and  mine,  and  I 
urge  upon  the  Latter-day  Saints,  one 
and  all,  to  be  liberal  in  their  subscrip- 
tions, and  to  see  that  this  most  valu- 
able magazine  is  in  their  homes,  be- 
cause it  is  worth  to  the  Latter-day 
Saints  many  times  more  than  the  pal- 
try price  of  the  magazine  to  have  in- 


stilled into  the  hearts  and  minds  of 
their  children  the  noble  teachings  that 
are  to  be  found  therein.  Now  I  find 
that  I  am  down  on  the  program  in  ad- 
dition to  these  remarks  on  the  "Juve- 
nile," to  give  a  valedictory. 

Inasmuch  as  you  are  all  aware  that 
I  am  about  to  leave  upon  a  mission,  I 
will    say   in   bidding   goodbye   to  the 
Sunday  school  workers,  that  some  of 
the  happiest  times  in  my  life  have  been 
spent  in  laboring  in  the  Sunday  school 
cause  since  I  was  called  a  few  years 
ago,   in  connection  with   Apostle  Ly- 
man, to  occupy  a  position  on  the  board 
of  the  Sunday  School  Union.    I  do  not 
believe  that  I  have  ever  been  associ- 
ated with   a  more   patriotic,    a  more 
loyal,  and  a  more  faithful  body  of  men 
than  those  to  be  found  upon  this  Sun- 
day School  Union  board.   We  meet  reg- 
ularly once  a  week  whenever  we  are  not 
engaged  in  some  other  Church  duties  or 
responsibilities,  and  report  our  labors 
and  converse  and  plan  together  for  the 
advancement  of  the     Sunday  school 
cause,  and  there  is  always  a  very  nice, 
a   very   enjoyable   and   a   very  sweet 
spirit   in   our  meetings.     I   have  en- 
joyed all  of  those  meetings,  and  I  have 
enjoyed  my  labors  in  the  Sunday  school, 
although  on  account  of  my  duties  in 
connection  with  the  Young  Men's  Mu- 
tual Improvement  associations  I  have 
not  had  as  great  an  opportunity  to  la- 
bor among  the  Sunday  schools   r  I 
would  like  to  have  had.     I  was  inti- 
mately  associated    from   my  boyhood 
days  with  Brother    George  Goddard, 
and  I  loved  him  with  all  my  heart.  I 
was  associated  in   the   Sunday  school 
work    with    Brother    Maeser.    and  I 
learned  to  love  him,  and  I  say  to  the 
young  men  and  to  the  young  ladies 
within  the  sound  of  my  voice,  that  the 
lives  of  these  two  noble  men  that  have 
passed  away  from  us  writhin  the  past 
two  years,  that  their  lives,  their  labors, 
are  worthy  of  our  emulation,  that  they 
are  bright  and  shining  lights,  that  the 
testimony  of  their  labors  is  beyond  any 
words  that  I  might  utter.     In  going 
forth  to  proclaim  the  Gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  plan  of  life  and  salvation,  I 
go  with  joy;  I  go  with  gratitude  to  God 
that  I  have  been  considered  worthy  to 
be  sent  to  open  the  doors  of  the  Gos- 
pel to  a  nation  that  has  never  heard  the 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


81 


sound  of  the  tidings  of  great  joy.  I  go 
to  bear  my  testimony  that  I  know  that 
God  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
I  know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet  of  the  true  and  living  God.  I 
go  forth  with  this  testimony  in  my 
heart.  I  go  forth  rejoicing,  thanking 
God  that  my  life  has  been  spared,  that 
I  am  permitted  to  go.  It  is  only  a 
little  over  two  years  ago  that  I  was 
very  heavily  involved,  and  it  looked  as 
though  it  would  take  not  one  year,  not 
five,  not  ten,  not  twenty  years  of  my 
life,  but  even  more,  to  extricate  my- 
self from  the  bondage  of  debt.  I  was 
lying  in  the  hospital  at  the  point  of 
death,  and  God  saw  fit  to  raise  me  up, 
and  while  I  was  there,  I  told  Him  that 
if  He  would  assist  me  in  paying  my 
obligations,  that  I  would  gladly  go  to 
the  ends  of  the  earth  and  proclaim  the 
Gospel,  and  I  desired  His  aid  that  I 
might  go  as  a  free  man,  and  I  testify  to 
you  that  God  has  blessed  me  beyond 
my  most  sanguine  expectations;  that 
He  has  multiplied  my  substance  in  my 
hands,  and  I  can  go  upon  this  mission 
practically  a  free  man.  And  I  testi- 
fy that  I  know  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that  Joseph  Smith 
was  a  Prophet  of  God,  that  Lorenzo 
Snow  is  one.  I  leave  my  blessing  upon 
the  Latter-day  Saints  and  upon  the 
Sunday  school  cause,  and  I  ask  for  your 
blessing  to  attend  me  and  Brother 
Kelsch  and  Brother  Ensign  and  others 
that  we  may  choose  to  labor  with  us, 
and  I  say,  may  God  bless  you  again, 
in  the  name  of  Jesus.  Amen. 

Elder  George  D.  Pyper  sang,  "The 
Children's  Friend." 

APOSTLE  P.  M.  LYMAN. 

I  presume  that  there  is  no  more  in- 
spiring sight  to  be  found  in  the  world 
in  connection  with  Sunday  school  work 
than  we  have  before  us  tonight.  I 
wonder  if  there  is  any  spot  on  earth 
where  there  is  anything  in  this  line  to 
compare  with  what  we  see  tonight.and 
such  as  we  see  twice  a  year.  It  be- 
comes quite  common  to  us, such  a  gath- 
ering of  children  as  we  have  here  to 
make  music,  and  the  choice  singing  by 
others.  I  have  been  wondering  what 
percentage  of  the  congregation  present 
are  not  really  workers  and  interested 
in  the  Sunday  schools.     I  notice  that 


our  Sunday  schools  have  the  presence- 
of  our  leaders — the    members    of  the- 
Presidency  of  the  Church  and  the  chief 
men  in  the  Stakes  of  Zion;  and  in  the- 
wards  the  presiding  authorities  are  al- 
ways attentive  and    give  encourage- 
ment to  this  cause.     It  embraces  al- 
most every  department  of  the  Church; 
men  and  women,  old  and  young,  middle- 
aged,  all  are  interested    in  this  great 
and  important  cause,  and  no  one  can  be- 
too  thoroughly  devoted  to  it,  for  it  is; 
particularly  and  entirely  devoted  to  the 
salvation  of  the  souls  of  the  children,, 
and  if  we  can  save  the  children,  there 
will  be  no  trouble  with  the  older  peo- 
ple, for  if  the  children  he  saved  the  old: 
people  cannot  help  but  be  saved  after 
a  while.     And  the  impressions  that  are 
made  upon  them  in  the  Sunday  schools: 
will  never  be  forgotten.     Listening  to- 
Dr.  Tanner  urging  us    to  commit  to 
memory  passages  of  scripture,  I  do  not 
think  that    we     can    give    too  much 
thought  to  this  splendid  suggestion.  It . 
is  not  new,  it  is  rather  in  the  ancient 
line,  for  we  have  no  doubt  among  us  -. 
today  many  of  the  older  people  of  the 
Church  who  were  trained    in  Sunday 
schools  in  early  times  when  almost  the 
entire  work  was  devoted  to  committing 
to  memory  scripture  passages, scripture 
chapters,  and  almost  all  have  some  of 
the  books  of  the  scripture,  and  I  be- 
lieve that  we  have  drifted,  as  the  doc- 
tor says,  in  the  other    direction,  and 
that  we  should  return  and  give  greater 
attention    to     memorizing  scripture 
passages.       This       evening     I     was; ; 
thinking     as     we     were     about  to., 
come      to      this       gathering,  that 
Brother  George    Goddard    has  passed : 
away.  Brother  Maeser  has  passed  away. 
These  two  great  assistants  to  the  gen- 
eral superintendent  have  passed  away,, 
and  tonight  our  hearts  are  sad  with  the* 
fact   that   the   general   superintendent - 
himself  is  in  a  precarious  condition,  and " 
I   want   to   suggest   to   these  Sunday 
school  workers  that  we  exercise  in  be- 
half   of  our    general  superintendent, 
President   George  Q.   Cannon,   all  the 
faith  that  we  can  muster,  and  that  we 
do  not  lie  down  tonight  until  we  have 
in  humility  and  in  faith  asked  the  Lore? 
that  his  life  may  be  preserved  to  us  and 
to  His  Church.    I  ask  it  as  a  favor  of 
this  body    of    Sunday    school  workers, 


82 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


these  seven  or  eight  thousand  people 
that  are  here.  Brother  Reynolds  re- 
mains with  us  here,  the  others  are  away 
from  us,  two  of  them  permanently  and 
President  Cannon  unable  to  be  with  us. 
I  have  known  these  men  since  I  was  a 
■child.  President  Cannon,  seventy-four 
years  old.  I  can  remember  well  when 
lie  was  as  modest  and  blushing  as  a 
maiden,  although  I  am  so  much  younger 
than  he  is,  but  I  can  remember  when 
he  was  a  young  man,  remember  him 
■well.  Brother  Maeser,  I  learned  to 
known  him  early  in  life  and  experi- 
ence here.  Was  connected  with  him 
in  school  matters.  Brother  Goddard  I 
■can  remember  almost  as  long  as  I  can 
remember  anyone  in  these  valleys. 
Elder  George  Reynolds,  who  is  with  us 
tonight,  a  little  younger  than  I  am, 
came  to  the  ministry  when  I  was  a 
traveling  Elder  in  the  London  confer- 
ence forty  years  ago,  and  we  have 
traveled  side  by  side  from  then  till 
mow.  Our  integrity  is  known  to  each 
other.  We  know  each  others'  hearts; 
and  these  men  that  I  have  spoken  of  are 
being  succeeded  and  associated  with  by 
men  of  the  same  type.  I  thank  the 
Lord  that  this  splendid  body  of  men, 
■who  stand  to  the  Sunday  school  cause 
as  the  Presidency  and  the  Twelve  stand 
to  the  Church  of  Christ,  the  leaders 
and  chiefs,  and  as  devoted  and  as 
■earnest  and  faithful  in  this  cause  as 
'the  Presidency  and  the  Apostles  are  in 
the  Church,  and  just  as  sweet,  and 
•clean,  and  devoted.  This  is  my  testi- 
mony in  regard  to  these  men.  God 
bless  the  Sunday  school  cause.  I  de- 
light in  it,  I  enjoy  it;  and  as  I  have  said 
before,  I  never  received  an  appoint- 
ment in  the  Church  that  brought  me 
greater  pride,  satisfaction  and  pleasure 
than  to  know  that  I  could  be  associated 
'with  this  body  of  men,  and  in  this  cause 
iin  the  Church  of  Christ.  That  we  may 
toe  faithful  and  devoted,  and  accom- 
plish all  the  good  that  lies  in  our  power 
for  the  salvation  of  the  souls  of  the 
•children  that  the  Lord  has  entrusted  to 
us,  I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen.  ■'       ;  j ; 

I 

PROF.  EVAN  STEPHENS. 
I  will  comfort  you  first  of  all  by  tell- 
ing you  that  I  will  not  speak  many 
aninutes.    I  would  not  dare  to  attempt 


to  say  what  I  have  on  my  mind  to  say 
to  you,  for  I  know  it  would  take  at 
least  ten  minutes  or  more  to  do  it,  in 
fact  I  have  most  of  it  written  down, 
and  it  was  my  intention  to  read  it  to 
you;  but  with  my  little  restless  family 
here  behind  me,  who  have  been  sitting 
here  about  two  hours  now.  I  will  not 
attempt  it.  I  want  to  say  without 
meaning  to  offend  or  to  find  fault,  that 
I  am  really  sorry  that  I  have  brought 
them  here  this  evening,  for  you  have 
set  them  a  very  bad  example  in  good 
order.  I  love  them  very  much,  and  I 
am  accustomed  to  them  in  their  sweeter, 
nicer  mood  at  our  rehearsals,  where  we 
do  not  have  any  talking,  or 
confusion.  There  was  so  much 
confusion  during  the  first  half  hour  of 
our  meeting  that  it  would  be  useless 
to  impress  upon  the  children's  minds 
the  necessity  of  keeping  still  in  the 
Tabernacle,  and  I  am  sorry  that  I 
brought  them  here  to  get  a  bad  example 
from  you  late  comers. 

The  matter  that  I  desire  to  speak  of 
is  musical  training  for  the  Church 
members  from  childhood  up;  the  result 
would  be  that  when  our  boys  go  on 
missions  they  would  not  si'ng  their  first 
hymn  when  they  arrive  in  the  field,  as 
hundreds  of  them  do  today,  I  am  sorry 
to  say.  The  training  should  be  taken 
up  and  continued  from  childhood  to 
boyhood,  to  manhood  and  womanhood, 
under  the  auspices  of  either  the  Sunday 
school  or  the  Mutual  Improvement  asso- 
ciation. I  will  say  more  about  it  in  a  pa- 
per that  I  will  write.  Will  you  please  look 
for  it,  read  it,  and  see  if  it  is  not  practi- 
cable. You  do  not  need  a  Brother  Ste- 
phens around  in  order  to  have  a  sing- 
ing class.  Do  not  make  this  mistake.  I 
will  take  this  much  time  now  to  try 
and  disabuse  your  minds  of  that  idea 
for  I  have  been  told  so  many  times — 
"O  yes,  if  we  had  a  Brother  Stephens 
in  our  Stake  we  could  do  thus  and  so." 

That  is  all  nonsense.  Brother 
Ballantyne,  a  young  man  in  Ogden, 
is  doing  just  as  good  work  as  I 
am;  Brother  Christopherson,  a  young 
man  of  very  little  educational  training, 
who  has  not  graduated  anywhere,  ex- 
cept out  of  my  choir  and  classes,  is  just 
making  Sanpete  ring  with  musical  im- 
provement today.  I  mention  this  be- 
cause   some    time    ago    it    was  re- 


DESERET  SUNDAY  SCHOOL  UNION 


8  5 


ported  that  about  the  only  ones  who 
did  singing  there  were  a  few  sisters. 
Today  Sanpete  is  wide  awake  in  music- 
al matters  through  the  efforts  of  Broth- 
er Christopherson,  who  is  making  a 
splendid  success  of  it.  Brother  Bassett 
at  Nephi  is  doing  the  same  thing.  I 
mention  this  so  that  jou  will  not  think 
you  have  to  wait  until  some  young  col- 
lege graduate  comes  to  your  Stake.  Do 
not  be  stingey  with  the  music  teachers. 
Do  not  be  like  a  sister  I  heard  of,  living 
within  a  few  miles  of  Ogden.  She  had 
taken  her  children  to  the  class  and 
when  she  got  to  Ogden  she  learned 
that  the  teacher  was  going  to  have 
something  for  his  work,  so  she  said, 
"Rather  than  to  pay  anything  for  a 
teacher  to  teach  them  music,  I  will 
take  them  home  again."  Tou  must  not 
think  a  music  teacher  does  not  have  to 
■eat  or  wear  anything  or  wants  to  live 
on  charity.  It  is  a  hard  oc- 
cupation at  best,  and  you  should  en- 
courage him.  Look  around  and  see 
If  you  do  not  have  two  or  three  young 
men  in  your  Stake  who  are  making  a 
success  of  choirs  in  Sunday  schools  or 
■elsewhere;  then  have  them  take  it  upon 
a  larger  scale,  and  organize  training 
classes.  This  is  a  training  class  that  ber 
longs  to  the  Salt  Lake  Stake.  They  pay 
a  tuition  fee  of  a  dollar  a  year  for  their 
training.  They  get  four  concert  tickets 
that  they  can  sell  at  25  cents  each  and 
get  their  dollar  back,  and  that  makes 
their  tuition  practically  free,  and  still 
the  teacher  is  paid  for  his  work.  If 
something  of  this  kind  is  taken  hold  of, 
the  education  of  your  children  will  cost 
next  to  nothing,  and  the  music  teacher 
•can  live.  There  ought  not  to  be  a  child 
whose  musical  training  is  neglected  in 
our  community,  for  we  are  a  com- 
munity that  make  practical  use  of 
music.  I  glory  in  Brother  Grant's  pluck 
in  learning  to  sing,  and  especially  be- 
cause he  had  no  talent  at  all.  I  do 
not  think  it  was  a  matter  of  laughter 
at  all  this  evening  to  hear  him.  I 
have  heard  worse  singing  than  that 
from  professionals.  There  is  one  thing 
Brother  Grant  does  that  I  wish  the 
•community  would  pattern  after,  and 
that  is,  he  means  what  he  sings.  He 
•does  not  sing  a  lot  of  senseless  rub- 
bish that  is  not  Mormonism,  and  lots 


of  our  singers  do  that  today.  Let  us 
sing  what  we  mean  and  no  more;  do 
not  let  us  sing  so  much  frivolous  stuff. 
Let  us  banish  from  our  ward  entertain- 
ments all  things  that  are  ridiculous.  Let 
us  take  up  music  in  a  serious  way,  or 
else  our  musical  progress  will  become  a 
farce.  Let  us  do  away  with  comic  songs 
more  and  more,  and  do  not  let  them  be 
mixed  up  with  sermons  and  prayers 
and  hymns.  Our  programs  would  bring 
us  into  ridicule  if  they  were  published 
anywhere  in  the  world.  It  is  the  place 
of  the  Sunday  school  to  look  after  this 
as  much  as  anything.  I  wish  they 
would  take  hold  of  our  musical  prog- 
ress. I  can  assure  you  that  I  would  be 
only  too  glad  to  write  you  an  article 
every  week,  to  help  you  to  carry  on 
this  work.  I  cannot  visit  you,  not  at 
present;  I  have  too  large  a  musical 
family  to  attend  to  at  home.  I  have 
said  a  great  deal  more  than  I  intended, 
and  I  only  hope  that  this  work  will  be 
taken  up  in  real  earnest  and  in  a  prac- 
tical way,  for  I  feel  that  we  are  going 
to  be  a  musical  people,  a  peoplt 
with  a  taste  for  music,  and  who  in- 
tend to  elevate  that  taste  above  that 
which  is  prevailing.  If  we  are  not  care- 
ful we  will  be  in  the  same  position  as  a 
race  of  people  today  who  are  perhaps 
among  the  most  musical  on  the  earth, 
but  who  never  rise  to  the  higher  ranks 
of  music.  I  do  not  want  our  community 
to  dwindle  into  mediocrity.  When  a  tal- 
ent is  developing  itself  we  must  take 
hold  of  it  and  guide  it  right,  or  else  it 
will  become  a  means  of  evil  instead  of 
good,  in  our  midst.  That  is  why  I  would 
like  to  see  music  under  the  auspices  of 
the  Sunday  schools, because  then  I  think 
it  could  be  turned  into  account.  I  wish  to 
do  the  unusual  thing,  and  that  is,  to 
sing  our  first  song  over,  for  I  do  not 
believe  anybody  heard  it  before;  I 
could  hardly  hear  it  myself  for  the 
noise  of  people  coming  in.  I  do  not 
like  anything  to  go  to  waste. 

The  choir  then  sang  "The  Cause  of 
Truth." 

Benediction  by  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith. 

HORACE  S.  ENSIGN, 

Secretary. 
JACOB  SCHULTHESS, 

Reporter. 


I  New  Publications 


NOW  ON  SALE  BY 
THE  DESERET  NEWS. 


♦  •    RISE  AND  FALL  OF  NAUVOO, 

By  B.  H.  Roberts.    Cloth,  $1.25. 

X  MISSOURI  PERSECUTIONS, 

By  B.  H.  Roberts.    Cloth,  $1.25. 

SALVATION  FOR  THE  LIVING  AND  THE  DEAD, 


(Liberality  of  the  Mormon  Faith),  by  Charles  W.  Pen- 
rose.    A  pamphlet  of  13  pages      Price,  .'!  cents;  2  for  ** 
5  cents. 


LIFE  OF  A  PIONEER, 


By  Capt.  James  S.  Brown,  520  pages,  bound  in  cloth' 
Price,  $2.00. 


;:  THE  GREAT  SALT  LAKE, 

J 16  pages,  embossed  Princess  covers,  by  Dr.  James  E.  % 
Talmage.    Price,  25  cents. 


LIFE  OF  D.  W.  PATTEN, 


:: 


By  L.  A.  Wilson,  77  pages,  bound  in  board.  Price, 
20  cents.  And 

DANISH  DOCTRINE  AND  COVENANTS, 

Carefully  revised  by  Apostle  Anthon  H.  Lund.  Price, 

$1.00.    r  :      ^gglHl&jfe  tdm1'- 


SPECIAL  DISCOUNTS  TO  DEALERS  AND  AGENTS 


TO  MISSIONARIES: 


To  aid  missionaries  in 
•  their  fields  of  labor  the 


SEMI- 
WEEKLY 
NEWS 


Will  be  sent  to  subscrib- 
ers sent  in  by  them  at 


ONE  DOLLAR  A  YEAR. 


This  offer  applies  only  to  sub- 
scribers in  the  missionary  field. 


