ONE  HUNDRED  THIRTY-FOURTH 

ANNUAL 


CONFERENCE 

OF  THE  CHURCH  OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF  LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 

HELD  IN  THE  TABERNACLE 
SALT  LAKE  CITY,  UTAH 

APRIL  4,  5,  6,  1964 

WITH  REPORT  OF  DISCOURSES 

Published  by 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 


Deseret  Book  Presents  .  . . 


New,  Large  Print,  Illustrated  Editions 

of  the  STANDARD  WORKS 


NEW 

TESTAMENT 

Illustrated  Large 
Print  Edition 


■  The  King  James  Version  in  large,  easy-to-read  type!  ■  A  big  7"x  lO'/T 
volume  with  full  color  lithographed  cover!  ■  Forty-eight  pages  of  full  color 
illustrations  including  1 5  reproductions  of  famous  Carl  Bloch  "Life  of  Jesus" 
paintings!  ■  Eight  pages  of  Hammond's  New  Testament  Maps!  ■  Full  Bible 
Concordance  (Old  and  New  Testaments)!  ■  Full  Bible  Index!  ■  Plus  many 
additional  helps  including  "From  the  Beginning  of  the  Gospel  Record," 
"Some  Old  Testament  Prophecies,"  "From  Malachi  to  Matthew,"  "Jewish 
Sects  and  Their  Beliefs"  "Items  of  Information  Concerning  the  Bible"  and 
others.  ONLY  $3.95 


OLD  TESTAMENT,  Illustrated  Large  Print  Edition 

■  Large  7"  x  11"  volume  with  easy-to-read  print!  ■  More 
than  thirty  pages  of  illustrations  in  full  color  and  sepiatones 

■  Eight  pages  of  Old  Testament  maps!  ■  Reader's  helps  in- 
clude "Old  Testament  Chronology,"  "The  Ancient  Versions 
of  the  Old  Testament,"  "Hebrew  Festivals,"  "Weights,  Money, 
and  Measures,"  and  "The  Languages  of  the  Bible." 

ONLY  $5.95 

BOOK  OF  MORMON,  Illustrated  Large  Print  Edition 

■  Large  7"  x  11"  volume  with  easy- to-read  type!  ■  Forty 
pages  of  beautiful  color  illustrations!  ■  Twelve  full  color 
plates  of  Arnold  Friberg  Book  of  Mormon  paintings!  ■  Color 
illustrations  of  ancient  American  ruins  and  artifacts!  ■  Sepia- 
tone  portrait  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith! 

ONLY  $3.95 


ttederet  Book 

COM  P  A  N  Y 

44  EAST  SO.  TEMPLE  AND  AT  COTTONWOOD  MALL 
SALT  LAKE  CITY 
2472  WASHINGTON  BLVD.,  OGDEN 
777  SO.  MAIN  ST.,  ORANGE,  CALIFORNIA 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-fourth  Annual 
Conference  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Thirty-Fourth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  convened  in 
the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  Saturday,  Sunday 
and  Monday,  April  4,  5,  and  6,  1964. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00 
p.m.,  Saturday,  Sunday,  and  Monday, 
and  the  General  Priesthood  Meeting 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle  Saturday 
evening,  April  4,  at  7:00  p.m. 

For  the  first  time  this  April,  Confer- 
ence was  heard  and  seen  in  every  state 
in  the  United  States  and  was  televised 
by  189  television  stations  volunteering 
their  time  and  facilities  to  bring  this 
Conference  to  millions.  Also  12  tele- 
vision stations  in  Canada  released  por- 
tions of  the  Conference  sessions. 

The  Saturday  morning  session  was 
carried  by  direct  wire  to  Montevideo, 
Uruguay  and  transmitted  in  Spanish 
over  Radio  CARVE  and  beamed  by 
shortwave  through  all  of  South  Amer- 
ica and  Spain,  Sunday  afternoon. 

Tape  recordings  of  the  Saturday 
morning  session  were  carried  by  jet 
airliner  to  Europe  for  transmission  in 
both  English  and  German  over  Radio 
Luxemburg  and  were  heard  throughout 
Europe  and  in  Great  Britain,  Tuesday 
and  Wednesday  evenings  following  the 
Conference. 

The  five  WRUL  shortwave  trans- 
mitters near  Boston,  broadcast  the  Sat- 
urday and  Sunday  morning  sessions 
direct  to  Europe,  Africa  and  South 
America.  In  addition,  the  session  of 
Saturday  morning  was  broadcast  in  both 
Spanish  and  Portuguese  to  all  of  South 
America  and  in  German  to  Europe, 
Sunday  afternoon. 

For  the  first  time,  daily  sessions  of 
Saturday  and  Sunday  were  broadcast 
during  early  morning  hours  over  KIRO 
Radio    at    Seattle.     These  broadcasts 


could  be  heard  by  members  of  the 
Church  in  New  Zealand,  Australia  and 
many  islands  of  the  Pacific. 

Daily  sessions  of  the  three  day  Con- 
ference were  again  recorded  and  broad- 
cast over  KSL  Radio  during  early 
morning  hours  to  islands  of  the  Pacific, 
Alaska,  Hawaii,  Canada,  Mexico  and 
the  Caribbean  area  and  many  states 
within  the  United  States. 

In  an  effort  to  bring  Conference  to  an 
even  greater  number  of  members  abroad, 
television  films  were  provided  missions 
in  Germany,  Great  Britain  and  South 
America  for  showing  in  chapels  and 
other  Church  meeting  places  where 
Saints  gather  to  see  and  hear  the  pro- 
ceedings. 

The  General  Priesthood  meeting  was 
relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members  of 
the  Priesthood  gathered  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  and  in  391  separate  gatherings 
from  coast-to-coast  and  in  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  presi- 
dent and  presided  at  each  of  the  sessions 
and  conducted  the  services  of  each 
meeting. 

A  full  report  of  the  Sunday  morning 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 
is  included  in  this  record. 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  clerk  of 
the  Conference. 


General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, Hugh  B.  Brown,  Nathan  Eldon 
Tanner. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Delbert  L.  Stapley, 
Marion  G  Romney,  LeGrand  Richards, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  Howard  W.  Hunter, 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Thomas  S.  Monson. 


2  GENERAL  C 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr., 
Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Franklin  D.  Richards, 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Thorpe  B.  Isaac- 
son, Boyd  K.  Packer,  Bernard  P. 
Brockbank. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy:  *, 
Antoine  R.  Ivins,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  **,  A.  Theodore  Tuttle, 
Paul  Harold  Dunn.*** 

Presiding  Bishopric:  John  H.  Vanden- 
berg,  Robert  L.  Simpson,  Victor  L. 
Brown. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 


seph Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William 
Lund,  Assistant. 

Members  of  the  General  Church 
Priesthood  Committees. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  the  Acting  Chancellor  of  the 
Church  School  System;  also  Directors 
and  Associate  Directors  of  Institutes,  and 
Seminary  Instructors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 
and  quorum  presidencies  and  members 
of  the  Melchizedek  and  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood. 

Auxiliary  Officers,  General,  Stake,  and 
Ward,  from  all  parts  of  the  Church. 


*Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  passed  away  December  13, 
1963. 

**  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks  was  absent,  presiding 
over  the  British  Mission. 

***Elder  Paul  Harold  Dunn  was  sustained  a  mem- 
ber of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy,  to  fill  the 
vacancy  caused  by  the  death  of  Elder  Levi  Edgar 
Young. 


FIRST  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  One  Hun- 
dred Thirty-Fourth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints,  which  Conference  was  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  convened  Sat- 
urday morning,  April  4,  1964,  at  10:00 
a.m.,  with  President  David  O.  McKay 
presiding  and  conducting. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present 
and  furnished  the  musical  numbers  for 
this  session.  Richard  P.  Condie  directed 
the  singing.  Elder  Alexander  Schreiner 
was  the  organ  accompanist. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

(Opening  Remarks) 

Never  before,  I  think,  have  I  felt  so 
happy  to  greet  my  brethren  and  sisters 
assembled  in  this  Tabernacle.  I  am 
especially  glad  to  see  Sister  McKay  in 
her  usual  place.  I  thank  all  of  you  in 
her  behalf  for  your  faith  and  prayers. 

The  proceedings  of  this  Annual  Con- 
ference, through  radio  and  television, 
will  reach  a  potential  audience  of  ninety 
million  people.  We  are  living  in  the 
most  enlightened  age  of  man's  history. 
Scientists,  inventors,  and  others  have 
been  inspired  during  the  past  ages  by 
an  overruling  Providence.  We  owe  a 
debt  of  gratitude  to  the  dedicated  men 
and  women  who  have  applied  these 
inventions  and  discoveries  for  the  guid- 
ance, convenience,  and  blessing  of  man- 
kind. Now,  because  of  this  service  and 
dedication,  we  are  able  to  transmit  in 
a  brief  period  the  messages  of  the  Gen- 
eral Authorities  of  the  Church  to  mil- 
lions throughout  the  world. 


We  express  appreciation  to  the  men — 
experts  in  the  field  of  communications — 
who  are  assisting  the  Church  today  in 
its  efforts  to  bring  the  glad  tidings  of 
the  Gospel  to  the  peoples  of  the  earth. 
May  God  help  us  to  appreciate  fully  all 
the  blessings  he  has  bestowed  upon  us, 
and  to  take  advantage  of  all  the  light 
and  knowledge  he  has  revealed  to  us. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  here  in  full 
numbers  this  opening  session,  will  now 
favor  us  with  "The  Wintry  Day  De- 
scending To  Its  Close."  The  opening 
prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder  Gerald 
G.  Smith,  formerly  President  of  the 
Eastern  States  Mission. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang:  "The 
Wintry  Day  Descending  To  Its  Close," 
following  which  the  opening  prayer  was 
offered  by  Elder  Gerald  G.  Smith, 
formerly  President  of  the  Eastern  States 
Mission. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  while  at- 
tending a  stake  conference  in  Cedar 
City  was  stricken  with  a  slight  heart 
attack.  We  all  join  in  the  prayer  that 
was  offered  for  his  comfort  and  speedy 
restoration. 

Yesterday  at  about  five  o'clock  Sister 
Dilworth  Young  passed  to  her  great 
reward.  She  is  now  relieved  from  all 
her  suffering,  and  our  sympathy  goes 
out  to  Brother  Young  in  his  bereave- 
ment, and  our  commendation  for  his 
close  attention  to  his  loved  wife. 
(No  song)  (Pres.  McKay  gives  Opening 
Address) 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


"Blessed  are  they  who  do  His  Com- 
mandments." (Rev.  22-14.) 

Many  years  ago  there  was  a  story  told 
in  one  of  our  early  school  books  about 
some  young  people  who  were  sailing 


down  the  river  towards  Niagara  Falls. 
A  man  on  the  shore  cried  out  to  them: 
"Young  men,  Ahoy,  the  rapids  are  be- 
low you!" 

But  they  heeded  not  his  warning  call 
until  they  realized  too  late  that  they 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

were  in  the  midst  of  the  rapids.  With 
all  the  power  at  their  command  they 
failed  to  turn  their  boat  upstream,  "So," 
said  the  man  who  tried  to  warn  them, 
"shrieking,  and  cursing,  over  they  went!" 

The  lesson  left  an  indelible  impression 
upon  me;  but  today  it  seems  incom- 
plete. It  is  one  thing  to  stand  on  the 
shore  and  cry,  "Young  men,  Ahoy — 
there  is  danger  ahead,"  and  it  is  another 
thing  to  row  into  the  stream,  and,  if 
possible,  get  into  the  boat  with  the 
young  men,  and  by  companionship,  by 
persuasion,  by  legitimate  force,  when 
necessary,  turn  the  boat  from  the  rapids. 
Too  many  of  us  are  satisfied  to  stand  on 
the  shore  and  cry,  "There  is  danger 
ahead." 

This  morning,  I  have  in  mind  giving 
a  warning  to  all  young  people  relating 
to  three  dangers  threatening  the  success 
and  happiness  of  Youth: 

First,  the  pernicious  habit  of  smoking 
cigarets. 

Second,  the  increasing  number  of 
divorces. 

Third,  the  tendency  to  hold  less 
sacred  the  moral  standards. 

The  Habit  of  Smoking 

One  Hundred  and  thirty-one  years 
ago  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  received 
a  revelation  "showing  forth  the  order 
and  will  of  God  in  the  temporal  salva- 
tion of  all  saints  in  the  last  days." 
(D&C  89:2.)  It  relates  to  the  physical, 
the  intellectual,  the  moral,  and  the 
spiritual  nature  of  man.  It  deals  par- 
ticularly with  the  relation  of  man's 
appetite  to  health  and  vigor.  A  person's 
reaction  to  his  appetites  and  impulses 
when  they  are  aroused  gives  the  meas- 
ure of  that  person's  character.  In  such 
reactions  are  revealed  the  man's  power 
to  govern,  or  his  forced  servility  to 
yield.  That  phase  of  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, therefore,  which  refers  to  intoxi- 
cants, drugs,  and  stimulants,  goes  deeper 
than  the  ill  effects  upon  the  body,  and 
strikes  at  the  very  root  of  character 
building  itself. 

Strong  Drinks  and  Tobacco  are  Not 
Good  for  Man 

The  revelation  says  that  strong  drinks 
and  tobacco  are  not  good  for  man.  This 
is  a  clear,  definite  statement  which  has 


First  Day 

stood  the  test  of  well  over  a  century. 
It  was  made  by  a  man  only  twenty- 
seven  years  of  age,  who  from  the  stand- 
point of  human  learning,  knew  but 
little  about  physiology,  hygiene,  or  the 
relation  of  mind  and  body  to  character 
and  spirituality.  His  knowledge  came 
from  inspiration.  With  a  conviction 
unwavering,  with  an  assurance  that  the 
statement  would  stand  all  tests  and  ex- 
periments, he  declared  that  strong  drinks 
and  tobacco,  excepting  only  when  used 
externally,  are  not  good  for  man. 

During  the  last  one  hundred  years, 
the  marvelous  advance  of  science  has 
made  it  possible  for  man  to  determine 
by  experiments  the  ill  effect  of  intoxi- 
cants and  drugs  upon  the  nerves  and 
tissues  of  the  human  body.  Observa- 
tion and  experiment  have  demonstrated 
their  effects  upon  character.  All  such 
experiments  and  observations  have 
proved  the  truth  of  the  young  man's 
statement:  "Strong  drinks  and  tobacco 
are  not  good  for  man. 

Respect  for  another's  rights  and 
property  is  fundamental  in  good  gov- 
ernment. It  is  a  mark  of  refinement 
in  any  individual;  it  is  a  fundamental 
Christian  virtue.  Nicotine  seems  to 
dull,  if  not  to  kill  completely  this  trait 
of  true  culture,  and  women  unfor- 
tunately have  become  its  pitiable 
victims,  and  the  worst  offenders  in  so- 
ciety. There  are  still  a  few  public 
conveyances  that  carry  non-smoking 
compartments;  a  few  eating  places  with 
signs,  "No  Smoking."  In  violation  of 
such  placards,  it  is  not  infrequent, 
however,  to  see  a  woman  with  utter 
disregard  for  the  feelings  of  her  fellow- 
passengers,  among  the  first  in  an  air- 
plane or  on  a  train  to  light  a  cigarette. 

Many  public  buildings  are  often  lit- 
tered with  burnt-out  matches  and  stubs 
of  cigarets  and  cigars.  Many  costly 
fires  in  hotels,  apartment  houses  and 
homes  are  started  by  burning  cigarets 
carelessly  dropped  or  thrown  aside. 

If  men  and  women  must  smoke,  and 
it  seems  that  many  are  now  slaves  to 
that  habit,  then  for  the  sake  of  cleanli- 
ness and  neatness,  as  well  as  of  con- 
sideration for  others,  let  them  refrain 
from  marring  furniture,  carpets,  etc., 
and  from  strewing  ashes  and  cigarette 
stubs  in  buildings  where  people  assem- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


5 


ble  either  for  pleasure  or  instruction. 

But  aside  from  all  this,  science  has 
now  proved  that  there  is  a  far  greater 
danger  associated  with  cigaret  smoking. 

Dr.  George  James,  Health  Commis- 
sioner of  New  York  City,  said  on  March 
17,  1964  that  he  "knows  that  within 
the  next  six  months  one  thousand 
cigarette  smokers  in  New  York  will  die 
of  lung  cancer,  throat  cancer,  and  other 
diseases  because  of  their  tobacco  habit." 

On  Saturday,  January  11,  1964,  news- 
papers throughout  the  country  pub- 
lished the  following  statement: 

"A  special  government  scientific  team 
Saturday  linked  cigarette  smoking  to 
five  forms  of  cancer,  and  termed  the 
habit  a  health  hazard  which  needs 
'appropriate  remedial  action.' "  This 
long-awaited  report  by  ten  scientists  and 
physicians  declared  that  a  series  of 
studies  showed  that  "the  mortality  ratio 
of  cigarette  smokers  over  nonsmokers 
was  particularly  high  for  a  number  of 
diseases." 

I  appeal  to  young  men  and  women 
everywhere  to  refrain  from  this  ob- 
noxious habit,  not  only  for  the  effect 
it  has  on  their  character,  but  also  be- 
cause of  the  alarming  proofs  from  doc- 
tors and  scientists  that  it  is  one  of  the 
chief  causes  of  cancer. 

Increasing  Number  of  Divorces 

Another  threat  to  our  society  is  the 
increasing  number  of  divorces  and  the 
tendency  to  look  upon  marriage  as  a 
mere  contract  that  may  be  severed  at  the 
first  difficulty  or  misunderstanding  that 
may  arise. 

One  of  our  most  precious  possessions 
is  our  families.  The  domestic  relations 
precede,  and,  in  our  present  existence, 
are  worth  more  than  all  other  social 
ties.  They  give  the  first  throb  to  the 
heart  and  unseal  the  deep  fountains  of 
its  love.  Home  is  the  chief  school  of 
human  virtues.  Its  responsibilities, 
joys,  sorrows,  smiles,  tears,  hopes,  and 
solicitudes  form  the  chief  interests  of 
human  life. 

"To  make  a  happy  fireside  clime 

To  weans  and  wife, 
That's  the  true  pathos  and  sublime 

0'  human  life." — Robert  Burns 


When  one  puts  business  or  pleasure 
above  his  home,  he  that  moment  starts 
on  the  downgrade  to  soul-weakness. 
When  the  club  becomes  more  attrac- 
tive to  any  man  than  his  home,  it  is 
time  for  him  to  confess  in  bitter  shame 
that  he  has  failed  to  measure  up  to  the 
supreme  opportunity  of  his  life  and 
flunked  in  the  final  test  of  true  man- 
hood. No  other  success  can  compen- 
sate for  failure  in  the  home.  The 
poorest  shack  in  which  love  prevails 
over  a  united  family  is  of  greater  value 
to  God  and  future  humanity  than  any 
other  riches.  In  such  a  home  God  can 
work  miracles  and  will  work  miracles. 

Pure  hearts  in  a  pure  home  are  always 
in  whispering  distance  of  heaven. 

In  the  light  of  scripture,  ancient  and 
modern  we  are  justified  in  concluding 
that  Christ's  ideal  pertaining  to  mar- 
riage is  the  unbroken  home,  and  con- 
ditions that  cause  divorce  are  violations 
of  his  divine  teaching. 

Some  of  those  conditions  I  name  as 
unfaithfulness  on  the  part  of  either  the 
husband  or  wife,  or  both — habitual 
drunkenness,  physical  violence,  long 
imprisonment  that  disgraces  the  wife 
and  family,  the  union  of  an  innocent 
girl  to  a  reprobate.  In  these  and  per- 
haps other  cases  there  may  be  circum- 
stances which  make  the  continuance  of 
the  marriage  state  a  greater  evil  than 
divorce.  But  these  are  extreme  cases — 
they  are  the  mistakes,  the  calamities  in 
the  realm  of  marriage.  If  we  could 
remove  them,  I  would  say  there  never 
should  be  a  divorce.  It  is  Christ's  ideal 
that  home  and  marriage  should  be  per- 
petual— eternal. 

Marriage  is  a  sacred  relationship  en- 
tered into  for  purposes  that  are  well 
recognized — primarily  for  the  rearing  of 
a  family. 

I  know  of  no  other  place  where 
happiness  abides  more  securely  than  in 
the  home.  It  is  possible  to  make  home 
a  bit  of  heaven.  Indeed,  I  picture 
heaven  as  a  continuation  of  the  ideal 
home.  Some  man  has  said:  "Home 
filled  with  contentment  is  one  of  the 
highest  hopes  of  this  life." 

An  ever- decreasing  birthrate,  and  an 
increasing  divorce  rate  are  ominous 
signs  threatening  the  stability  of  the 
home  and  the  perpetuity  of  any  nation. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

In  order  to  lessen  the  breaking-up  of 
homes,  we  should  substitute  the  present 
tendency  toward  a  low  view  of  marriage 
by  the  lofty  view  which  Jesus  Christ 
gives  it.  Let  us  look  upon  marriage  as 
a  sacred  obligation  and  a  covenant  that 
is  eternal  or  that  may  be  made  eternal. 

Young  people  of  both  sexes  should  be 
taught  the  responsibilities  and  ideals 
of  marriage  so  that  they  may  realize 
that  marriage  involves  obligation  and  is 
not  an  arrangement  to  be  terminated 
at  pleasure.  They  should  be  taught  that 
pure  love  between  the  sexes  is  one  of 
the  noblest  things  on  earth  and  the 
bearing  and  rearing  of  children  the 
highest  of  all  human  duties.  In  this 
regard,  it  is  the  duty  of  parents  to  set 
an  example  in  the  home  that  children 
may  see  and  absorb  the  sacredness  of 
family  life  and  the  responsibility  asso- 
ciated therewith. 

The  number  of  broken  marriages  can 
be  reduced  if  couples  realize  even  be- 
fore they  approach  the  altar  that  mar- 
riage is  a  state  of  mutual  service,  a 
state  of  giving  as  well  as  of  receiving, 
and  that  each  must  give  of  himself  or 
herself  to  the  utmost. 

The  most  vicious  enemy  to  home  life 
is  immorality. 

Of  this  evil,  Victor  Hugo  writes  im- 
pressively: 

"The  holy  law  of  Jesus  Christ  governs 
our  civilization;  but  it  does  not  yet 
permeate  it;  it  is  said  that  slavery  has 
disappeared  from  European  civilization. 
That  is  a  mistake.  It  still  exists;  but  it 
preys  now  only  upon  woman,  and  it  is 
called  prostitution." 

This  corroding  evil  is  just  as  demoral- 
izing to  men  as  to  women.  In  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  there  is  no  double  standard  of 
morality.  The  young  man  should  ap- 
proach the  marriage  altar  just  as  fit  for 
fatherhood  as  his  sweetheart  is  worthy 
of  motherhood. 

Chastity,  not  indulgence  during  the 
pre-marital  years,  is  the  source  of  har- 
mony and  happiness  in  the  home,  and 
the  chief  contributing  factor  to  the 
health  and  perpetuity  of  the  race. 
Loyalty,  dependability,  confidence,  trust, 
love  of  God,  and  fidelity  to  man  are 
associated  with  this  diadem  in  the 
crown   of   virtuous   womanhood  and 


First  Day 

virile  manhood.  The  word  of  the  Lord 
to  his  Church  is:  "Keep  yourself  un- 
spotted from  the  sin  of  the  world." 
(See  James  1:27;  D&C  59:9.) 

The  foundation  of  a  noble  character 
is  integrity.  By  this  virtue  the  strength 
of  a  nation,  as  of  an  individual,  may  be 
judged.  No  nation  will  become  great 
whose  trusted  officers  will  pass  legis- 
lation for  personal  gain,  who  will  take 
advantage  of  public  office  for  personal 
preferment,  or  to  gratify  vain  ambition, 
or  who  will,  through  forgery,  chicanery, 
and  fraud,  rob  the  government,  or  be 
false  in  office  to  a  public  trust. 

Honesty,  sincerity  of  purpose,  must  be 
dominant  traits  of  character  in  leaders 
of  a  nation  that  would  be  truly  great. 

"I  hope,"  said  George  Washington, 
"that  I  may  ever  have  virtue  and  firm- 
ness enough  to  maintain  what  I  con- 
sider to  be  the  most  enviable  of  all 
titles — the  character  of  an  honest  man." 

It  was  Washington's  character  more 
than  his  brilliancy  of  intellect  that  made 
him  the  choice  of  all  as  their  natural 
leader  when  the  thirteen  original 
colonies  decided  to  sever  their  connec- 
tion with  the  mother  country.  As  one  in 
eulogy  to  the  father  of  our  country 
truly  said:  "When  he  appeared  among 
the  eloquent  orators,  the  ingenious 
thinkers,  the  vehement  patriots  of  the 
Revolution,  his  modesty  and  temperate 
profession  could  not  conceal  his  superi- 
ority; he  at  once,  by  the  very  nature 
of  his  character,  was  felt  to  be  their 
leader." 

Let  us  in  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  citizens  of  this 
beloved  land,  use  our  influence  to  see 
that  men  and  women  of  upright  char- 
acter, of  unimpeachable  honor,  are 
elected  to  office;  that  our  homes  are 
kept  unpolluted  and  unbroken  by  in- 
fidelity; that  children  therein  will  be 
trained  to  keep  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord,  to  be  honest,  true,  chaste, 
benevolent,  and  virtuous,  and  to  do 
good  to  all  men.  (See  Thirteenth  Article 
of  Faith.) 

Cherishing  such  ideals,  we  can  with 
all  our  hearts  say  with  the  poet  Long- 
fellow: 

"Thou,  too,  sail  on,  O  Ship  of  State 
Sail  on,  O  Union,  strong  and  great! 
Humanity  with  all  its  fears, 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


With  all  the  hopes  of  future  years, 
Is  hanging  breathless  on  thy  fate! 

May  members  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  preaching  the  restored  gospel  to 
the  peoples  of  the  earth,  ever  remem- 
ber the  Savior's  injunction:  "Ye  are  the 
light  of  the  world.  .  .  . 

"Let  your  light  so  shine  before  men, 
that  they  may  see  your  good  works,  and 
glorify  your  Father  which  is  in  heaven." 
(Matt.  5:14,  16.)  That  we  may  sense 
this  responsibility,  I  humbly  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Following  a  brief  Tabernacle  Organ 
Interlude,  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 


sing,  "Holy,  Holy,  Hosanna  in  the 
Highest,"  with  Brother  Albert  D.  Fal- 
lows as  soloist. 

Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Holy,  Holy, 
Hosanna  In  The  Highest."  (Solo  by 
Albert  D.  Fallows) 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  welcome  all  those  who  have  just 
joined  us  by  radio  and  television  in  this 
session  of  the  One  Hundred  Thirty- 
fourth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church,  convened  in  the  Tabernacle  on 
Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City. 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  A. 
Theodore  Tuttle,  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy,  and  president  of  the  South 
American  Mission. 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  want  to  testify,  my  brothers  and  sisters 
and  friends,  that  he  to  whom  we  have 
just  listened  is  indeed  a  prophet  of  the 
Living  God,  and  if  we  can  follow  and 
comprehend  this  inspired  message  it 
will  bring  a  solution  to  the  evils  that 
beset  us  in  this  day  and  age. 

Greetings  from  40,000  Members 

Two  years  ago  from  this  pulpit  I 
brought  you  greetings  from  20,000  mem- 
bers of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  in  South  America.  To- 
day, because  of  the  bounteous  blessings 
of  the  Lord  and  the  dedicated  efforts  of 
missionaries  and  members  alike,  I  am 
privileged  to  bring  you  greetings  from 
more  than  40,000  members  of  the 
Church.  Thirty-three  years  were  re- 
quired to  convert  the  first  10,000  mem- 
bers in  South  America.  Only  two  more 
years  were  required  to  convert  the  next 
10,000.  Since  I  reported  two  years  ago, 
21,000  more  converts  have  found  the 
truth  in  the  seven  missions  of  South 
America. 

In  an  atmosphere  unfriendly  to  the 
biblical  doctrines  of  continued  revela- 
tion, a  Church  founded  on  prophets  and 
Apostles,  belief  in  a  Personal  Father  in 
heaven,  and  Jesus  Christ  as  the  actual 
and  divine  Son  of  God,  how  can  a 
Church  that  teaches  these  biblical  doc- 


trines grow  so  rapidly?  What  is  it  that 
brings  people  into  the  restored  gospel 
in  such  unprecedented  numbers  in  these 
South  American  countries? 

Return  with  me  to  this  great  land  to 
get  some  feeling  of  the  people  among 
whom  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  is  working. 

We  find  ourselves  on  a  plane  flying 
between  Porto  Alegre,  Brazil,  and  Buenos 
Aires,  Argentina.  Seated  next  to  me  is 
an  executive  of  a  large  international 
corporation.  Upon  learning  that  I  was 
a  representative  of  the  Mormon  Church, 
he  asked,  "What  would  a  man  like  me 
have  to  do  to  join  the  Mormon  Church?" 

Conversions  in  South  America 

Since  he  was  smoking  as  he  drank 
his  cocktail,  I  commenced  by  suggesting 
that  he  would  first  have  to  give  up  both 
of  these  habits  and  abstain  from  the  use 
of  tea  and  coffee  as  well.  I  started  to 
mention  such  other  necessary  require- 
ments as  faith,  repentance,  and  baptism, 
when  he  interrupted  by  saying,  "Under 
those  restrictions,  can  you  get  anybody 
down  here  to  join  your  church?"  "Yes," 
I  replied.  "Thousand  of  people  join  the 
Church  in  these  lands;  in  fact,  in  Uru- 
guay the  ratio  of  conversion  to  popula- 
tion is  as  great  as  any  place  in  the 
world.  In  fact  I  know  a  member  who 
has  helped  to  bring  ninety-three  other 


8 

Saturday,  April  4 

persons  into  the  Church  since  she  joined 
a  year  ago.  But  you  made  a  mistake 
by  calling  it  my  church.  It  is  not  my 
church,  nor  is  it  any  man's  church.  In 
reality  it  is  the  actual  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  and  the  only  one  on  the  earth 
of  which  he  is  the  head.  When  you 
come  to  know  that,  my  friend,  and  you 
can  gain  that  certain  knowledge,  then, 
changing  your  life  to  conform  to  the 
revealed  word  of  the  Lord  is  not  as  diffi- 
cult as  at  first  it  might  seem." 

He  then  asked,  "If  your  church  is 
growing  so  fast,  what  do  you  do  with 
all  the  people?" 

"The  Church  is  a  perfect  organiza- 
tion," I  explained,  "founded  upon 
prophets  and  apostles,  and  it  expands 
in  an  orderly  way  under  pressure 
of  numbers. 

"It  does  not  require  a  professionally 
trained  nor  paid  ministry  to  administer 
it.  Ordinary  people  like  yourself  are 
called,  instructed,  and  empowered  to 
conduct  the  affairs  of  the  Church,  as 
in  ancient  times;  for  instance,  I  am  an 
educator,  our  mission  president  in 
Buenos  Aires  is  an  automobile  sales- 
man by  occupation,  and  our  president 
in  Brazil  is  a  contractor.  Men  are  or- 
dained to  the  priesthood  of  God.  They 
are  endowed  with  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  and  led  by  personal  revela- 
tion. A  living  prophet  guides  the 
Church  today.  It  is  the  practice  of  the 
leaders  in  the  Church  to  call  people  to 
work  in  a  position  suitable  to  their 
talents  and  capacities.  Here  in  South 
America,  for  instance,  we  use  new  mem- 
bers in  one  of  the  organizations  shortly 
after  their  baptism.  Work  in  the  Church 
is  both  a  means  to  an  end,  as  well  as 
an  end  in  itself.  People  are  called  to 
fill  positions  in  order  to  grow  and  de- 
velop personally,  as  well  as  to  make 
the  organization  function  more  effec- 
tively to  bless  others.  This  personal 
growth  is  the  great  benefit  one  receives 
through  service." 

I  further  explained  to  my  friend  that 
because  of  the  increasing  numbers  in 
the  Church  in  South  America,  we  have 
in  operation  an  extensive  training  pro- 
gram, the  express  purpose  of  which  is 
to  give  specific  training  to  every  person 
newly  called  to  a  position  in  the  Church. 
This  is  to  make  certain  that  each  new 
officer  knows  his  duty.    It  is  our  goal 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

to  fill  every  position  in  the  church 
organization.  This  gives  members  op- 
portunity to  develop  through  an  on-the- 
job  training  program.  This  training 
touches  every  facet  of  one's  personality. 
He  becomes  not  only  more  effective  as 
a  church  official,  but  a  better,  more 
capable  citizen  as  well. 

"Therefore,  with  a  steady  stream  of 
people  joining  the  Church,"  I  continued, 
"the  organizations  can  expand  in  an 
orderly  fashion.  Leadership  training 
can  benefit  and  bless  more  and  more  of 
your  fellow  countrymen.  I  even  have 
the  temerity  to  suggest  that  this  kind  of 
people — people  who  have  been  trained 
to  think,  who  have  had  experience  in 
solving  problems,  who  have  accepted 
and  discharged  leadership  responsibility 
— are  the  people  you  ought  to  be  seek- 
ing to  staff  your  corporation." 

Promises  Being  Fulfilled 

I  bore  testimony  to  this  man  that  the 
Lord  is  now  hastening  the  fulfilment 
of  his  promises  and  prophecies  con- 
cerning this  choice  land  and  its  people. 
They  are  receptive  to  the  message 
that  God  lives  and  that  he  directs, 
through  revelation,  his  perfectly  organ- 
ized Church. 

Our  next  stop  is  at  El  Cuzco,  the  an- 
cient capital  city  of  the  Incan  empire, 
situated  at  11,000  feet  in  the  tops  of 
the  Andes  Mountains.  We  are  in  a 
press  conference,  and  a  reporter  asks, 
"What  is  the  difference  between  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  and  other  churches?" 

Authority  by  Direct  Revelation 

We  quote  from  a  living  prophet  to 
explain  one  of  the  major  distinguishing 
features  of  the  Church.  President  David 
O.  McKay  has  said,  ".  .  .  we  believe  in 
divine  authority  by  direct  revelation 
rather  than  by  descent."  The  power 
and  authority  came  to  this  Church 
through  the  visitation  of  angelic  mes- 
sengers: Peter,  James,  and  John,  the 
Apostles  of  old,  who  as  resurrected 
beings,  conferred  their  authority  and 
power  upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  in  this  dispensation.  We  ex- 
plained that  this  doctrine  is  both  scrip- 
tural and  logical,  for  the  Bible  itself 
is  a  compilation  of  revelations.  They 
were  given  at  different  periods  of  time 


ELDER  A.  THEODORE  TUTTLE 


9 


through  various  prophets  over  approxi- 
mately 4,000  years.  Just  as  each  prophet 
in  times  past  left  scripture  as  evidence 
of  the  divinity  of  his  calling,  so  we  offer 
to  the  honest  in  heart  today  additional 
scriptures,  both  ancient  and  modern. 
These  additional  revelations  form  the 
scriptural  basis  for  the  doctrine  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

Next,  stand  with  me  in  Chile  at  the 
doorway  to  a  school,  recently  opened 
by  the  Church.  Bright-eyed  youngsters 
march  past  into  a  new  and  marvelous 
world  of  learning  that  they  have  never 
known  before,  of  books  and  methods 
that  are  the  newest  and  finest.  We 
see  a  skilled  and  experienced  teacher 
willing  to  go  at  her  own  expense  to 
teach  these  eager  children  and  to  lead 
them  to  a  testimony  that  the  glory  of 
God  is  intelligence  and  that  truth  will 
make  them  free. 

Journey  next  to  a  city  nestled  in  the 
center  of  the  Brazilian  coffee  plantations 
(an  industry,  incidentally,  that  we  have 
been  accused  of  trying  to  put  out  of 
business  in  Brazil).  We  are  here  to 
attend  a  district  conference.  A  fine- 
looking  man,  not  a  member  of  the 
Church  two  years  ago,  is  speaking:  "The 
first  time  I  entered  the  chapel  I  could 
actually  feel  a  good  spirit  here — a  spirit 
of  warmth  and  friendliness,  one  of  con- 
cern and  love  for  one  another,  and  of 
brotherhood.  I  also  felt  that  I  must 
clean  up  my  life  in  order  to  associate 
with  you  people.  You  made  me  feel 
welcome  and  needed." 

Like  all  those  who  visit  our  meetings, 
he  was  welcome  and  is  needed.  He  is 
particularly  needed  today  because  he 
now  presides  as  the  president  of  the 
branch  he  once  visited.  He  holds  the 
authority  and  has  the  power  to  share 
with  all  men  the  same  spirit  that  so 
influenced  and  blessed  his  life. 

Brotherly  Kindness 

The  feelings  of  fraternity  in  this 
Church  and  the  functions  of  its  priest- 
hood quorums  bind  men  together  in  a 
bond  of  brotherhood.  It  brings  warmth 
of  companionship  that  delights  the  soul 
and  makes  life  worthwhile.  Love  of 
fellow  men  penetrates  from  heart  to 
heart  across  national  borders.  It  be- 
comes the  only  effectual  process  that 


erases  men's  artificial  boundaries  and 
unites  them  in  a  cause  greater  than 
their  own  political  nationalism. 

Finally  accompany  me  as  we  become 
junior  companions  to  some  of  the  mis- 
sionaries over  whom  I  preside.  Recently, 
down  in  Argentina,  my  companion  and 
I,  at  the  invitation  of  a  member,  went 
to  visit  his  friend.  Evidently  we  entered 
the  wrong  apartment  building  because 
the  man  who  responded  to  our  knock 
was  not  the  person  whom  we  sought. 
My  young  companion,  typical  of  today's 
energetic  and  dedicated  youth,  promptly 
introduced  us  as  representatives  "de  la 
Iglesia  de  ]esucristo  de  los  Santos  de 
los  Ultimos  Dias"  and  asked  the  man 
if  he  would  like  to  know  something 
about  the  Church.  Our  new-found 
friend  said,  "Yes,"  but  after  a  short  con- 
versation when  my  companion  offered 
to  leave  him  a  tract,  he  refused  to  take 
it  saying,  "My  church  forbids  me  to 
read  anything  of  a  religious  nature 
like  this." 

Search  for  Truth  Brings  Freedom 

How  grateful  I  am,  my  friends,  that 
the  enlightened  search  for  truth  by  this 
Church  frees  a  man  from  fear  and 
teaches  him  that  life  is  to  learn,  that 
truth  is  to  be  sought  and  accepted  from 
any  source — scientific  or  revealed.  It 
teaches  that  God  is  our  Father  and 
teacher,  that  we  are  son  and  pupil,  and 
that  we  can  actually  become  like  him, 
this  by  learning  and  keeping  his  com- 
mandments and  doing  his  revealed  will. 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  teaches  that  man's  pursuit 
of  truth  is  his  eternal  quest: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they 
might  know  thee  the  only  true  God, 
and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent." 
(John  17:3.) 

And  now  as  we  return  from  South 
America,  I  speak  to  all  who  can  hear. 
Perhaps  for  the  first  time  you  have 
heard  the  glad  message  that  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  restored.  Per- 
haps you  have  had  friends  or  neighbors 
who  have  recently  joined  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 
You  have  probably  wondered  why  their 
lives  changed  so  much;  why  they 
seemed  to  be  happier  and  busier,  why 
they  seemed  to  live  more  purposefully. 
Should  you,  too,  not  seek  information 


10 

Saturday,  April  4 

about  this  marvelous  and  sacred  message? 

"Prove  all  things,"  Paul  admonished, 
"hold  fast  that  which  is  good."  (1 
Thess.  5:21.) 

You,  father  and  husband,  as  head  of 
your  household,  should  you  not  find  re- 
lease from  the  sins  of  the  world  that 
beset  you,  through  faith,  sincere  repent- 
ance, and  baptism  by  immersion  for 
the  remission  of  sins?  Should  you  not 
find  the  strength  to  complete  the  change 
in  your  life,  for  the  strength  will  come 
through  receiving  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost?  Should  you  not  possess  the 
priesthood  and  experience  its  power? 
Should  you  not  have  the  joy  of  certain 
knowledge  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  that 
God  lives?  The  Lord  will  not  withhold 
this  blessing  from  any  who  sincerely 
seek  it. 

Look  at  that  sweet  companion  by 
your  side.  Should  your  wife  not  find 
an  outlet  for  sharing  her  heaven-en- 
dowed gifts  in  unison  with  other  good 
women?  Would  you  deny  her  the  in- 
fluences which  strengthen  her  as  a  wife 
and  mother? 

And  your  most  priceless  possessions, 
what  of  them?  I  see  that  teenager  at 
your  side.  Should  your  teenager  not 
have  the  opportunity  to  participate  in  a 
youth  organization  where  youth  mu- 
tually improve  one  another? 

And  your  little  ones,  what  of  them? 
How  pliable,  how  susceptible  to  all  the 
influences  of  life!  Should  they  not  have 
the  protection  and  the  advantage  of 
training  in  child-centered  organizations 
which  teach  them:  "I  am  a  child  of 
God.    My  Heavenly  Father  loves  me." 

Should  your  entire  family  not  kneel 
night  and  morning  and  receive  the  addi- 
tional strength  that  comes  through  a 
Wise  and  Loving  Father?  Should  you 
and  all  members  of  your  family  not 
seek  and  find  the  supreme  joy  and  the 
abundant  life  that  the  Savior  taught 
in  his  Church  restored  again? 

Search  for  Better  Life 

While  men  have  been  blinded  by 
men  and  prejudiced  by  tradition  in  the 
lands  of  South  America,  nevertheless, 
when  they  hear  explained  the  doctrines 
of  this  Church,  when  they  understand 
its  teachings,  and  when  they  see  its 
programs  in  action,  they  are  not  antago- 
nistic to   its  message.     Rather,  they 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

respond  to  the  opportunity  to  hold  the 
priesthood,  to  give  service  freely,  to 
exercise  the  power  of  leadership,  to  do 
something  and  be  somebody,  because 
the  promises  of  the  Lord  and  the  prophe- 
cies of  his  servants  concerning  these 
lands  and  this  people  are  now  being 
fulfilled. 

I  bear  my  witness  that  this  Church 
is  indeed  the  restored  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  he  is  at  its  head  directing 
it  today  by  direct  and  authoritative 
revelation  to  his  living  prophet,  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay.  I  know  there  is 
a  great  awakening  among  the  people  of 
South  America  and  a  yearning  for  a 
better  life — not  only  a  desire  for  the 
material  blessings  but  a  deep  searching 
and  longing  for  the  spiritual  heritage 
which  they  have  been  promised,  to 
which  they  are  entitled.  The  Lord  has 
set  his  hand  to  bless  this  choice  land 
and  this  people  of  promise  and  destiny. 
I  invite  all  men  everywhere  to  seek 
within  this  gospel  the  supreme  joy  that 
comes  from  the  certainty  of  this  testi- 
mony, and  I  do  it  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  A.  Theodore  Tuttle  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  and  president  of  the 
South  American  Mission  has  just  spoken 
to  us. 

Following  a  brief  organ  interlude,  the 
Tabernacle  Choir,  with  the  congrega- 
tion joining  when  indicated  by  the 
leader,  will  render  the  anthem,  "Hosan- 
na  to  God  and  the  Lamb."  Richard  P. 
Condie  will  conduct,  Alexander  Schrei- 
ner  is  at  the  organ.  Brother  Sterling 
Sill  will  be  our  next  speaker. 

The  Choir  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  Hosanna  Anthem 
— Hosanna  to  God  and  the  Lamb. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

How  thankful  we  are  that  millions  on 
the  outside  as  well  as  those  here  in 
the  Tabernacle  had  the  opportunity  of 
hearing  that  beautiful  anthem,  in  praise 
of  God  the  Father  and  His  Son  Jesus 
Christ.  It  was  not  too  long  ago  that 
those  who  sang  in  this  building  or  who 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


11 


spoke  from  this  pulpit  were  heard  only 
by  those  sitting  in  the  audience  in  the 
Tabernacle.  Today,  as  announced,  mil- 
lions are  listening. 


Brother  Tuttle  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy  was  the  latest  speaker  to  this 
audience.  Elder  Sterling  Sill  will  now 
address  us. 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters,  I  appreciate 
very  much  this  privilege  of  having  a 
part  with  you  in  this  great  general 
conference  of  the  Church.  This  is  one 
application  of  that  interesting  custom 
had  among  us,  whereby  we  set  aside 
special  days  to  think  about  special 
things.  That  is,  we  set  aside  the  sec- 
ond Sunday  in  May  as  Mother's  Day. 
And  on  that  day  we  let  our  minds 
reach  up  and  try  to  understand  the 
purpose  for  which  that  day  is  set  apart. 
We  set  apart  the  third  Sunday  in  June 
as  Father's  Day  for  the  same  reason. 

Days  Remembered 

And  someone  has  said  that  the  hu- 
man mind  has  some  of  the  qualities  of 
the  tendrils  of  a  climbing  vine.  It  tends 
to  attach  itself  and  draw  itself  upward 
by  what  it  is  put  in  contact  with. 

Then  we  have  some  other  wonderful 
days  in  which  we  put  our  minds  in 
contact  with  other  important  ideas.  We 
have  Memorial  Day,  and  Easter,  and 
Christmas,  and  the  Fourth  of  July.  We 
set  aside  the  fourth  Thursday  in 
November  as  Thanksgiving,  and  on  that 
day  we  try  to  build  gratitude  and  ap- 
preciation into  our  lives.  And  as  we 
recount  our  blessings,  we  increase  them. 

Suppose  that  at  this  special  time  we 
put  our  minds  in  contact  with  the  won- 
derful days  in  our  lives  and  single 
out  those  with  the  greatest  significance 
to  us  personally.  You  may  think  that 
your  most  important  day  is  the  day  of 
your  birth.  That  is  the  day  when  an 
important  new  life  came  into  being.  Or 
it  may  be  the  day  of  your  baptism. 
That  was  the  day  when  you  repented 
of  your  sins  and  made  a  covenant  with 
God  that  you  would  live  your  life  at  its 
best.  You  may  think  that  your  most 
important  day  is  the  day  of  your  mar- 
riage. That  is  when  a  new  family  was 
born.  Certainly  the  day  of  your  death 
will  be  a  very  interesting  day. 


Someone  has  said  that  the  most  im- 
portant event  in  life  is  death.  Death  is 
the  gateway  to  immortality.  We  live 
to  die,  and  then  we  die  to  live. 
Ordinarily  we  don't  like  to  think 
about  death  because  it  is  associated  with 
unpleasantness. 

But  death  does  not  cease  to  exist 
merely  because  it  is  ignored.  The  an- 
cient Egyptians  had  a  much  more  logical 
procedure  for  handling  this  situation. 
On  their  important  festive  occasions 
they  kept  constantly  on  display  before 
the  revelers  a  great  image  of  death. 
They  wanted  to  remind  themselves 
that  someday  they  would  die.  Now  I 
don't  want  to  frighten  anyone  unduly 
here  today,  but  I  would  just  like  to 
point  out  in  passing  that  someday  each 
one  of  us  is  going  to  die.  Someone  has 
said  that  judging  from  the  past  there 
will  be  very  few  of  us  get  out  of  this 
world  alive,  and  certainly  one  of  the 
wisest  ways  to  spend  life  is  in  an  effec- 
tive preparation  for  death. 

Greatest  Day 

Branch  Rickey,  the  famous  baseball 
manager,  was  once  asked  to  name  his 
greatest  day  in  baseball.  He  replied, 
"I  haven't  had  it  yet."  And  I  would 
like  to  invite  you  to  consider  this  im- 
portant question.  How  could  you  em- 
ploy your  life  more  constructively  than 
in  getting  ready  for  those  exciting  ex- 
periences that  you  haven't  yet  had? 

H.  G.  Wells  gave  us  some  stimulat- 
ing self-improvement  help,  when  many 
years  ago  he  wrote  an  interesting 
fantasy  entitled  The  Time  Machine. 
Out  of  his  imagination  he  invented  a 
machine  that  could  carry  people 
through  time  much  as  an  airplane 
carries  us  through  space.  In  his  time 
machine  Mr.  Wells  could  go  thousands 
of  years  back  into  the  past  in  just  a 
few  minutes.  Being  a  historian  he  took 
great  delight   in  witnessing  the  im- 


12 

Saturday,  April  4 

portant  events  of  history  while  they 
were  actually  taking  place. 

He  made  a  trip  back  to  the  year  1066 
to  verify  personally  some  of  the  details 
of  the  Battle  of  Hastings.  Then  he 
went  still  farther  back  for  a  visit  in  the 
Golden  Age  of  Greece,  and  he  person- 
ally discussed  philosophy  with  Socrates 
400  years  BC.  With  his  mission  com- 
pleted, his  time  machine  would  bring 
him  back  into  the  present.  Then  by 
pushing  the  lever  in  the  other  direction, 
this  time  scientist  could  with  equal 
speed  go  up  into  the  future  to  study 
civilizations  and  institutions  as  they 
would  someday  actually  be.  And  his 
speedometer  always  indicated  which 
year  of  time  he  was  in. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Tir 


Mind 


While  this  story  is  only  a  fantasy,  it 
contains  the  germ  of  a  great  possi- 
bility. Actually  our  minds  have  been 
equipped  with  some  significant  time- 
traveling  abilities.  In  thought,  we  can 
go  backward  or  forward  across  time 
faster  than  any  missile  can  travel 
through  space.  In  President  McKay's 
great  book,  Gospel  Ideals,  he  has  one 
paragraph  in  which  he  says,  "Last 
night  I  dreamed  about  my  mother." 
And  then  he  said,  "I  would  like  to 
dream  about  my  mother  more  often." 
In  his  dream  he  went  back  into  his  own 
past  and  relived  those  important  days 
at  his  mother's  knee,  when  he  learned 
the  lessons  of  life  that  brought  him  to 
the  presidency  of  the  Church.  Upon 
awaking  he  found  that  his  ideals  had 
been  renewed  and  his  ambitions  greatly 
strengthened.  He  had  revitalized  his 
life  by  reabsorbing  the  original  good 
from  the  greatest  experiences  of  his 
own  past. 

Past  and  Future 

Whether  we  refer  to  this  process  as 
reflection,  meditation,  or  assimilation,  a 
great  source  of  strength  may  be  had 
from  reliving  the  past.  An  even  greater 
source  of  strength  can  come  from  pre- 
living  the  important  events  of  our  own 
futures.  This  ability  to  look  ahead 
might  be  called  vision  or  foresight  or 
the  utilization  of  that  wonderful  power 
of  imagination,  which  is  like  a  giant 
radar  beam  searching  the  skies  of  future 


First  Day 

years.  Someone  has  said  that  one  of 
the  greatest  gifts  that  God  has  ever 
given  to  man  is  an  imagination. 

When  in  our  minds  we  pre-live  our 
marriage,  we  help  to  determine  the 
kind  of  person  that  we  would  like  to 
be  when  that  event  arrives.  As  we  pre- 
live  our  success,  we  develop  the  abili- 
ties necessary  to  bring  it  about.  And 
with  the  information  and  direction 
given  us  in  the  Holy  Scriptures  we  can 
even  pre-live  that  important  period  that 
lies  beyond  the  boundaries  of  this  life. 

"Time  Travelling"  by  Prophets 

In  a  very  literal  way,  God  has  given 
important  time-traveling  abilities  to  the 
prophets;  for  example,  Abraham  was 
permitted  to  go  back  thousands  of 
years  into  the  past  to  review  his  own 
premortal  existence  and  learn  some- 
thing about  the  purposes  of  God,  even 
before  this  earth  had  been  created.  In 
telling  of  this  experience  Abraham 
said,  "Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto 
me,  Abraham,  the  intelligences  that 
were  organized  before  the  world  was; 
and  among  all  these  there  were  many 
of  the  noble  and  great  ones; 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will  make 
my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among  those 
that  were  spirits,  and  he  .  .  .  said  unto 
me:  Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them; 
thou  wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them 
that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We 
will  go  down,  for  there  is  space  there, 
and  we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and 
we  will  make  an  earth  whereon  these 
may  dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith, 
to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  their  God  shall  com- 
mand them; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate 
shall  be  added  upon;  and  they  who 
keep  not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have 
glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  those 
who  keep  their  first  estate;  and  they 
who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have 
glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever 
and  ever."  (Abraham  3:22-26.) 

Then  when  Abraham  came  back  into 
his  own  present,  he  was  more  thor- 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


13 


oughly  fortified  for  his  future  adven- 
ture in  life.  On  the  other  hand,  Moses 
was  permitted  to  preview  the  entire 
history  of  the  earth  from  the  beginning 
to  the  end  thereof.  On  that  memorable 
occasion  when  Moses  met  God  face  to 
face  on  the  mount,  he  was  given  a  great 
vision,  in  which  he  beheld  all  of  the 
earth.  The  record  says  there  was  not 
a  particle  of  it  which  he  did  not  be- 
hold, discerning  it  by  the  Spirit  of  God: 

"And  he  beheld  also  the  inhabitants 
thereof,  and  there  was  not  a  soul 
which  he  beheld  not; . .  ."  (Moses  1:28.) 

In  large  part  the  Holy  Scriptures  are 
made  up  of  great  revelations  which  God 
has  caused  to  be  written  down  for  our 
use  in  preparation  for  those  great  days 
which  we  haven't  yet  had.  For  what 
advantage  it  may  give  us,  just  suppose 
that  we  practise  pre-living  our  own 
resurrection.  A  recent  newspaper  arti- 
cle told  of  some  Russian  prisoners  of 
war  returning  to  their  families  after  a 
twenty-year  absence.  We  can  imagine 
the  pleasure  of  being  reunited  with 
loved  ones  after  a  long  separation,  but 
what  a  thrilling  experience  it  will  be  to 
be  reunited  with  ourselves. 

We  do  not  like  to  think  about  our 
spirits  and  bodies  being  even  tempor- 
arily separated  at  death.  But  in  the 
resurrection  what  will  be  the  joy  of  the 
faithful  when  the  spirit  and  the  body 
will  be  inseparably  joined  together  in 
celestial  glory.  Next  to  the  human 
spirit,  the  human  body  is  the  greatest 
of  all  God's  creations,  without  which 
we  could  never  have  a  fulness  of  joy. 
Our  spirits  were  begotten  of  God  in 
heaven,  and  one  of  the  most  important 
purposes  of  our  mortal  lives  is  to  be 
"added  upon"  with  a  body  of  flesh 
and  bones. 

This  was  also  one  of  the  important 
purposes  of  the  earth  life  of  Jesus.  It 
has  always  been  something  of  a  mys- 
tery to  me  why  some  people  are  so 
insistent  in  depriving  God,  the  greatest 
of  all,  of  his  body.  This  is  especially 
hard  to  understand  when  we  know  that 
it  was  a  part  of  the  punishment  for 
Lucifer's  sin  that  he  could  never 
progress  beyond  the  status  of  a  spirit. 
If  a  body  of  flesh  and  bones  were  not 
necessary,  it  never  would  have  been 
created  in  the  first  place.    If  it  were 


not  necessary  for  eternity,  the  resur- 
rection never  would  have  been  insti- 
tuted. If  a  body  were  not  necessary 
for  God  the  Father,  then  there  would 
have  been  no  point  in  God  the  Son 
being  resurrected.  Certainly  a  glorious 
resurrection  day  will  be  one  of  our  most 
thrilling  days. 

Day  of  Judgment 

One  of  the  most  important  days  of 
World  War  II  was  D  Day.  D  Day  was 
a  term  used  to  indicate  an  unspecified 
day  on  which  some  crucial  military 
operation  was  to  take  place.  D  Day 
in  World  War  II  was  on  June  6,  1944. 
That  was  the  day  on  which  the  Allied 
Invasion  Forces  swarmed  onto  the 
beaches  of  Normandy  to  reestablish 
their  foothold  in  western  Europe.  D 
Day  was  the  beginning  of  the  end  of 
the  World  War  II.  August  15,  1945 
was  called  "VJ  Day"  or  Victory  in 
Japan  Day.  But  the  day  that  will 
probably  be  the  most  exciting  of  all  of 
our  days  will  also  be  a  "J  Day"  or 
Judgment  Day. 

This  is  a  term  frequently  used  in 
the  scripture  to  indicate  another  un- 
specified day  on  which  the  most  crucial 
operation  of  our  existence  will  take 
place.  This  is  the  world's  "settling-up 
day."  It  is  the  day  when  the  books  are 
going  to  be  balanced.  This  is  the  day 
that  the  prophets  have  looked  forward 
to  and  talked  about  since  the  world 
began.  In  the  scripture  this  day  has 
been  called  by  various  names  including 
"The  Day  of  Reckoning,"  "The  Day 
of  the  Lord,"  "The  Great  and  Terrible 
Day."  For  some  it  will  be  doomsday, 
but  many  scriptural  passages  mention 
this  day  as  though  it  needed  no  qualify- 
ing phrase.  They  merely  call  it  "The 
Great  Day."  It  is  very  interesting  that 
at  any  important  race  the  spectators 
usually  congregate  at  the  finish  line. 
And  what  could  be  more  exciting  than 
to  be  at  the  finish  line  in  the  race  of 
life.  This  is  another  interesting  reason 
why  we  should  be  ready  for  "J  Day." 
In  our  own  time  the  Lord  has  said, 
"Therefore  .  .  .  labor  diligently  ...  to 
bind  up  the  law  and  seal  up  the  testi- 
mony, and  to  prepare  the  saints  for 
the  hour  of  judgment  which  is  to 
come";  (D&C  88:84.) 


14 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

We  know  quite  a  lot  about  "J  Day," 
and  apparently  it  is  going  to  be  quite  a 
day.  We  know  the  purpose  of  Judg- 
ment Day.  We  know  what  action  is 
contemplated.  We  know  who  will  be 
in  court.  We  know  that  God  will 
be  there.  We  know  that  all  of  us  will  be 
there.  We  know  that  all  of  the  members 
of  the  Church  will  be  there,  and  that 
all  of  the  nonmembers  of  the  Church 
will  be  there.  Even  Satan,  and  all  of 
his  angels  will  be  there.  The  Prophet 
Jude  said,  "And  the  angels  which  kept 
not  their  first  estate,  but  left  their  own 
habitation,  he  hath  reserved  in  ever- 
lasting chains  under  darkness  unto  the 
judgment  of  the  great  day."  (Jude 
1:6.) 

Revelation  of  John 

In  an  interesting  "time-machine  ex- 
perience," John  the  Apostle  was  per- 
mitted actually  to  preview  the  judg- 
ment. This  revelation  was  of  such 
great  consequence  that  thereafter  he 
has  been  called  John  the  Revelator. 
However,  this  revelation  was  not  given 
for  John's  benefit  alone.  The  Lord 
specifically  instructed  him  to  write 
down  what  he  saw  so  that  we  might 
see  it  also.  John  says  that  while  he 
was  in  the  spirit  on  the  Lord's  day,  he 
heard  a  voice  behind  him.  It  was  a 
great  voice  as  of  a  trumpet  "Saying,  I 
am  Alpha  and  Omega,  the  first  and  the 
last:  and,  What  thou  seest,  write  in  a 
book,  .  .  ."  (Rev.  1:11.) 

John  says  that  he  turned  to  see  who 
spoke  to  him  and  he  saw  ".  .  .  one  like 
unto  the  Son  of  man,  clothed  with  a 
garment  down  to  the  foot,  and  girt 
about  .  .  .  with  a  golden  girdle. 

"His  head  and  his  hairs  were  white 
like  wool,  as  white  as  snow;  and  his 
eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire; 

"And  his  feet  like  unto  fine  brass,  as 
if  they  burned  in  a  furnace;  and  his 
voice  as  the  sounds  of  many  waters." 
(Ibid.,  1:13-15.) 

The  Redeemer  Lives 

This  was  such  a  glorious  personage 
that  John  said,  "And  when  I  saw  him, 
I  fell  at  his  feet  as  dead.  And  he  laid 
his  right  hand  upon  me,  saying  unto 
me,  Fear  not;  I  am  the  first  and  the  last: 

"I  am  he  that  liveth,  and  was  dead; 


First  Day 

and  behold,  I  am  alive  forevermore  .  .  . 
and  have  the  keys  of  hell  and  of  death." 
(Ibid.,  1:17-18.) 

What  a  tremendous  point  to  have 
clearly  in  mind,  that  the  Redeemer  is 
alive.  And  that  he  is  alive  forevermore. 
During  the  last  few  hundred  years, 
the  world  has  been  flooded  with  the 
crucifix.  It  pictures  a  dead  Christ 
upon  a  cross  of  pain.  But  Christ  did 
not  remain  upon  the  cross.  Neither  is 
the  tomb  his  dwelling  place.  He  is 
alive,  and  he  has  the  keys  of  death  and 
hell.  He  also  has  the  keys  of  eternal 
life  and  celestial  glory.  To  make  sure 
that  we  should  understand,  this  glorious 
being  said  to  John,  "Write  the  things 
which  thou  hast  seen,  and  the  things 
which  are,  and  the  things  which  shall 
be  hereafter";  (Ibid.,  1:19.) 

Pictures  Communicate 

Anciently  men  communicated  with 
each  other  by  means  of  pictures.  Now 
we  usually  use  words  to  express  thought, 
but  we  still  think  in  pictures.  If  some- 
one tells  us  his  experience,  we  can 
understand  it  best  when  in  our  mind's 
eye  we  can  actually  see  him  doing  it. 
The  movie  film  and  television  have 
become  popular  because  pictures  are  one 
of  the  best  ways  to  get  ideas  into  our 
minds.  John  didn't  just  get  the  facts 
about  the  judgment,  he  actually  saw  it 
as  it  will  someday  take  place.  Then  he 
transmitted  these  ideas  to  us  in  words, 
so  that  we  could  reconstruct  the  picture 
in  our  own  minds.  How  well  we  de- 
develop  this  mental  picturing  power 
will  largely  determine  our  future. 

Former  Prime  Minister  Disraeli  once 
said,  "Genius  is  the  power  to  visualize 
the  objective."  This  is  especially  true  of 
eternal  objectives.  If  we  lack  this  ability, 
we  will  certainly  have  trouble.  Recently 
a  friend  said  to  me,  "I  just  can't  see 
myself  being  active  in  the  Church." 
Neither  can  he  see  himself  getting  down 
on  his  knees  before  God.  There  are 
some  people  who  can't  see  the  advan- 
tages of  honesty  or  morality  or  comply- 
ing with  the  other  commandments  of 
God.  This  is  not  because  they  lack 
eyes.  What  they  lack  is  the  picturing 
power  of  a  great  faith.  It  will  help  us 
to  live  more  effectively  if  we  project 
John's  words  upon  the  screen  of  our 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


15 


minds  so  that  we  will  be  able  to  see 
the  picture  of  our  greatest  day  as  we 
will  someday  actually  experience  it. 

John  said,  "And  I  saw  the  dead, 
small  and  great,  stand  before  God;  and 
the  books  were  opened:  and  another 
book  was  opened,  which  is  the  book  of 
life:  and  the  dead  were  judged  out  of 
those  things  which  were  written  in  the 
books,  according  to  their  works. 

"And  the  sea  gave  up  the  dead  which 
were  in  it;  and  death  and  hell  delivered 
up  the  dead  which  were  in  them:  and 
they  were  judged  every  man  according 
to  their  works."  (Ibid.,  20:12-13.) 

Even  hell  will  be  emptied  for  judg- 
ment day.  The  problem  that  troubles 
our  civil  courts  is  that  those  involved 
cannot  frequently  agree  as  to  the  facts. 
But  probably  no  one  will  be  disposed 
to  argue  on  J  Day.  If  God  could 
show  Abraham  a  rerun  of  his  experience 
before  the  earth  was  created  and  if  he 
could  show  Moses  the  entire  history  of 
the  world  before  it  happened,  we  can 
be  sure  that  he  can  show  us  every 
detail  of  our  lives  exactly  as  they  took 
place,  with  nothing  left  out. 

An  ancient  American  prophet  asks 
this  important  question.  He  said,  ".  .  . 
can  ye  imagine  yourselves  brought  be- 
fore the  tribunal  of  God  with  your  souls 
filled  with  guilt  and  remorse,  having  a 
remembrance  of  all  of  your  wickedness, 
yea,  a  perfect  remembrance  of  all  your 
wickedness,  yea  a  remembrance  that  ye 
have  set  at  defiance  the  command- 
ments of  God?"  (Alma  5:18.) 

Imagine  Judgment  Day 

That  calls  for  an  important  ability, 
and  the  best  way  to  avoid  possible 
tragedy  is  to  focus  our  imagination 
upon  J  Day  before  we  actually  get 
there.  We  can  be  absolutely  certain 
that  we  will  all  want  to  be  a  faithful, 
devoted,  hard-working,  enthusiastic, 
full  tithepaying  member  of  God's  king- 
dom when  we  stand  before  the  judg- 
ment bar.  But  we  must  get  the  impulse 
to  faithfulness  ahead  of  time;  as  some- 
one has  said  that  hell  is  "truth  seen 
too  late." 

Concerning  those  who  fail  to  pass 
the  final  test  on  J  Day,  John  says,  "And 
whosoever  was  not  found  written  in 


the  book  of  life  was  cast  into  the  lake 
of  fire."  (Rev.  20:15.)  What  an  expe- 
rience that  is  going  to  bel 

"New  Heaven  and  New  Earth" 

Then  for  the  benefit  of  the  faithful, 
John  says,  "And  I  saw  a  new  heaven 
and  a  new  earth:  for  the  first  heaven 
and  the  first  earth  were  passed  away; 
and  there  was  no  more  sea. 

"And  I  John  saw  the  holy  city,  [the] 
new  Jerusalem  coming  down  from  God 
out  of  heaven,  prepared  as  a  bride 
adorned  for  her  husband. 

"And  I  heard  a  great  voice  out  of 
heaven  saying,  Behold,  the  tabernacle 
of  God  is  with  men,  and  he  will  dwell 
with  them  and  they  shall  be  his  people, 
and  God  himself  shall  be  with  them, 
and  be  their  God. 

"And  God  shall  wipe  away  all  tears 
from  their  eyes;  and  there  shall  be  no 
more  death,  neither  sorrow,  nor  crying, 
neither  shall  there  be  any  more  pain: 
for  the  former  things  are  passed  away. 

"And  he  that  sat  upon  the  throne 
said,  Behold,  I  make  all  things  new. 
And  he  said  unto  me,  Write:  for  these 
words  are  true  and  faithful. 

"He  that  overcometh  shall  inherit  all 
things;  and  I  will  be  his  God,  and  he 
shall  be  my  son."  (Ibid.,  21:1-7.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  what  a  lot 
of  thrilling  experiences  we  haven't  yet 
had!  May  God  help  us  to  be  prepared 
for  them  when  they  arrive,  I  pray  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 

The  women  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  now  sing,  "O  Lift  Thine  Eyes  to 
the  Mountains."  Following  their  sing- 
ing there  will  be  a  two-minute  organ 
interlude,  then  we  shall  hear  from  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve,  and  president  of  the  West 
European  Mission,  who  will  be  our 
concluding  speaker. 

Selection  by  the  women  of  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  "O  Lift  Thine  Eyes  To 
The  Mountains." 


16  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  4  First  Day 

ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Living  in  the  great  city  of  London, 
Sister  Petersen  and  I  feel  as  if  we  are  in 
the  middle  of  the  stage  of  the  world 
watching  a  tremendous  drama  move 
forward.  We  are  living  in  a  most  in- 
teresting period  of  the  world's  history. 
Sweeping  changes  are  taking  place,  and 
events  are  moving  forward  with  tre- 
mendous speed. 

Revolution 

Actually  we  are  passing  through  a 
world-wide  revolution  in  thought,  edu- 
cation, politics,  science,  and  religion. 
Values  have  changed;  aims  and  ob- 
jectives are  widely  different. 

In  no  area  is  there  a  more  interesting 
adjustment  going  on  than  in  the  field 
of  religion.  We  are  passing  through  a 
modern  refonnation,  literally.  In  many 
respects  it  is  similar  to  that  of  the 
sixteenth  century,  and  yet  it  is  totally 
different  in  other  ways. 

The  most  astonishing  thing  about  it 
is  that  both  Catholics  and  the  major 
Protestant  groups  want  it  and  agree 
that  it  is  needed.  Both  are  working  to 
bring  it  about,  each  group  trying  to 
reform  its  own  rituals  and  dogmas  at 
first,  with  serious  intentions  toward  a 
union  of  some  of  the  denominations 
afterward. 

Modern  Reformation 

It  is  significant  and  encouraging  that 
in  this  modern  reformation  both  Cath- 
olics and  Protestants  have  in  mind  one 
great  goal:  to  remodel  their  creeds  and 
practices  in  order  to  bring  them  back 
to  the  teachings  of  Christ  and  the  Bible. 

That  Christendom  needs  such  a 
change,  no  one  will  deny.  The  churches 
themselves  are  the  first  to  admit  it,  and 
are  more  vocal  than  any  other  group  in 
calling  for  whatever  steps  are  neces- 
sary to  bring  spirituality  back  to  the 
people  and  the  people  back  to  the 
churches.  But  even  some  of  the  clergy 
have  contributed  to  the  weakened 
Christian  position,  which  now  makes 
this  reformation  necessary. 

Clergy-weakened  Religion 

An  archbishop  in  one  great  church 


recently  challenged  the  miracles  of 
Christ.  A  bishop  wrote  a  book  in  which 
he  repudiated  the  Christian  concept  of 
Deity  and  earned  for  himself  the  title: 
A  Bishop  without  God.  Another  preacher 
warned  his  parish  not  to  believe  the 
book  of  Genesis,  and  certainly  not  to 
accept  the  story  of  Adam  and  Eve. 

A  Brooklyn  pastor  read  to  his  congre- 
gation and  recommended  as  good  litera- 
ture, excerpts  from  a  book  which  was 
pronounced  obscene  by  the  New  York 
State  Supreme  Court.  Another  pastor 
refused  a  request  to  read  the  23rd  Psalm 
at  the  funeral  service  of  a  mother  be- 
cause it  was  not  in  the  printed  liturgy. 
A  group  of  divinity  students  at  Oxford 
University  told  newspapers  in  England 
that  the  dominant  church  needed  a 
"shock  treatment,"  and  they  proceeded 
to  provide  it  with  a  book  entitled  Objec- 
tions to  Christian  Belief.  As  this  sort 
of  thing  has  grown  in  the  world,  it  has 
become  more  than  ever  apparent  to  the 
leaders  of  Christendom  that  a  change 
is  urgently  needed  to  save  their 
crumbling  structure. 

Reformation,  How  Accomplished 

The  puzzling  question  is:  How  shall 
it  be  accomplished?  Among  the  pro- 
posals are: 

First — consolidate  the  denominations 
so  that  the  strong  will  bolster  the  weak. 

Second—Make  the  scriptures  more 
readable.  This  point  has  resulted  in  a 
rash  of  new  translations  of  both  Protes- 
tant and  Catholic  versions  of  the  Bible 
in  modern  English. 

Third — Reform  and  modernize  the 
teachings  and  rituals  originating  in  the 
Middle  Ages,  which  are  ineffectual  now 
in  holding  the  interest  of  space- 
age  worshipers. 

One  of  the  great  Roman  Catholic 
cardinals,  taking  a  leading  part  in  pro- 
moting this  movement,  publicly  an- 
nounced that  a  reformation  of  his  own 
church  is  definitely  required  to  meet 
the  modern  challenge. 

His  Eminence  Julius  Cardinal  Dopf- 
ner,  who  governs  the  powerful  See  of 
Munich  in  Germany,  was  one  of  the 
four  prelates  chosen  by  Pope  Paul  VI 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


17 


to  guide  the  debates  in  the  last  session 
of  the  Vatican  Council.  He  recently 
voiced  the  most  direct  statement  yet 
made  by  any  high  Catholic  official  on 
the  necessity  of  extensive  reforms  in  that 
church.  In  fact,  he  asserted,  the  refor- 
mation has  already  begun,  for  that  is 
the  principle  aim  of  the  Vatican  Council. 

Speaking  in  Munich's  Congress  Hall, 
following  his  return  from  the  meetings 
in  Rome,  he  told  an  audience  of  2,800 
people  that  the  time  has  come  for  the 
church  to  change,  and  that  the  adjust- 
ment must  be  both  a  reformation  and 
a  renovation. 

He  said  that  many  church  members 
have  been  lost  to  Catholicism  because 
in  their  eyes  the  church  appeared  to  be 
a  "superannuated  souvenir  of  a  past 
age"  which  opposes  the  principle  of 
human  freedom. 

The  church  speaks  to  its  members  in 
an  ancient  tongue  through  incompre- 
hensible rituals,  he  explained,  adding 
that  its  preaching  has  little  relation  to 
present-day  life.  And  then  he  said: 
"The  reformation  of  the  church  must 
be  based  on  the  teachings  of  Christ  and 
the  Holy  Scripture." 

You  may  read  a  detailed  account  of 
his  address  in  the  Atlantic  edition  of 
Time  magazine  for  February  7,  1964. 

Newsweek  magazine  for  March  30, 
1964,  reports  that  twenty-seven  priests 
of  the  Protestant  Episcopal  Church  in 
the  United  States  have  joined  in  writ- 
ing a  new  book  about  the  failure  of  the 
churches.  They  point  to  what  tbey  call 
"worn-out  practices  and  attitudes"  and 
call  for  a  reformation  "from  top 
to  bottom." 

When  the  Douay  Version  of  the 
Bible  was  revised  and  published  in  Lon- 
don in  1947,  a  special  introductory  note 
was  included  to  explain  that  a  number 
of  changes  had  been  made  in  the  foot- 
notes and  annotations  because  those 
published  in  earlier  editions  "reflected 
the  mentality  of  the  reformation  period." 

Revisions  of  Doctrines  at  Variance 
with  the  Bible 

The  Church  of  England  recently 
published  a  book  called  This  Church  of 
England.  It  is  intensely  interesting 
and  illuminating.  After  asserting  that 
extensive  reforms  are  urgently  needed, 
it  cites  specific  instances  where  doctrines 


and  practices  of  the  church  are  at  vari- 
ance with  the  Bible;  for  instance,  it 
points  out  that  the  baptism  of  infants 
is  not  taught  in  the  scripture.  It  says 
further  that  baptism  in  the  days  of 
Jesus  was  performed  by  immersion, 
usually  in  a  river,  and  that  it  was  sym- 
bolic of  the  burial  and  resurrection 
of  Christ. 

A  modern  interpretation  of  the  Ten 
Commandments  is  called  for,  as  well 
as  a  revision  of  the  prayer  book,  which 
is  the  basic  liturgy  of  the  church.  As 
it  now  stands  the  prayer  book  is  re- 
garded as  being  too  characteristic  of  the 
sixteenth  century. 

Phases  of  the  reformation  of  that 
church  are  being  debated  currently  in 
Parliament  which  has  the  last  word  on 
changes  in  the  form  of  worship. 

The  Central  Advisory  Council  of  the 
Anglican  Church  is  presently  attempt- 
ing to  reform  the  parish  system  which 
it  says  is  "quaint"  since  it  dates  back 
to  the  seventh  century. 

Infant  Baptism 

The  attitude  of  some  of  the  clergy  in 
regard  to  returning  to  Bible  practices, 
especially  with  respect  to  infant  bap- 
tism, is  shown  in  the  publication  of 
the  Woodford  Parish  magazine  in  Eng- 
land for  February  1964.  In  this  issue 
the  rector  of  that  church  said: 

"Generations  of  English  babies  have 
been  nurtured  on  this  hypocrisy.  Their 
first  contact  with  Christ  and  his 
church,  through  infant  baptism,  is  an 
unreal  mixture  of  humbug  and  non- 
sense. As  one  vicar  said  to  me,  'I  have 
no  desire  to  increase  the  number  of 
baptized  pagans  walking  about  in 
this  parish.'" 

And  then  the  rector  continues:  "It  is 
high  time  honesty  began  again  in  the 
House  of  God.  And  where  better  than 
in  the  service  of  Christian  initiation, 
baptism?  Why  not  keep  it  for  grown- 
ups as  in  New  Testament  times,  and 
have  some  simpler,  more  genuine  service 
for  babies? 

"We  never  read  in  the  New  Testa- 
ment of  our  Lord  baptising  babies.  But 
we  do  read  of  him  blessing  them. 

Blessing  of  Babes 

"Why  then  don't  we  adopt  this  New 
Testament  practice,  the  practice  of  the 


18 

Saturday,  April  4 

Lord  himself,  and  bring  children  to 
church  for  blessing? 

"In  my  church  at  Woodford  we  have 
just  such  a  service.  I  call  it  an  order  of 
infant  naming  and  blessing,  with 
thanksgiving  of  parents." 
And  then  the  good  rector  continues: 
"Do  we  cling  to  infant  baptism  be- 
cause we  are  too  superstitious?  Let  us 
never  forget  that  God  is  as  sweetly 
reasonable  as  we  are.  If  we  think  that 
a  dying  baby  must  be  baptized,  we  must 
look  carefully  to  see  whether  we  have 
not  gone  over  the  border  of  true  re- 
ligion into  the  realm  of  superstition 
and  magic." 

Products  of  Dark  Ages 

When  the  doctrines  of  Christendom 
are  studied  carefully,  it  is  seen  that 
much  of  our  present-day  worship  is  a 
product  of  the  Middle  and  Dark  Ages, 
with  relatively  little  of  it  going  back 
to  the  time  of  Christ. 

As  a  result,  any  return  to  Jesus  and 
the  Bible  will  be  revolutionary  in  its 
effect  because  most  of  the  liturgies  of 
today  originated  long  after  Christ  and 
centuries  after  the  Bible  was  compiled. 

They  would,  therefore,  have  to  be 
discarded  if  a  literal  return  to  the  early 
Christian  Church  is  seriously  considered. 
When  today's  religious  scholars  speak 
of  returning  to  Christ  and  the  Bible  we 
are  inclined  to  ask: 

Return  to  Bible? 

Will  the  church  membership  respond 
to  the  radical  adjustment  that  will  be 
required  to  return  to  Bible  practices, 
steeped  as  they  are  in  tradition? 

Does  the  Bible  contain  enough  detail 
to  instruct  them  fully  regarding  the 
original  Christian  Church  and  its  doc- 
trines, so  that  they  really  may  accom- 
plish this  return? 

On  this  latter  point,  the  clerics  say 
that  the  Bible  is  sufficient,  for  it  con- 
tains all  of  God's  word.  And  yet  the 
Bible  itself  admits  that  it  is  an  incom- 
plete record  and  does  not  contain  all  of 
God's  word.  It  mentions  other  books 
of  scripture  which  are  not  within  its 
covers  and  therefore  are  not  available 
for  study  by  anyone  seeking  the  full 
truth  of  the  gospel. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


Missing  Books 

Moses  spoke  of  the  "Book  of  the  Cove- 
nant," which  we  do  not  have.  He  also 
mentions  the  "Book  of  the  Wars  of 
Israel,"  which  has  never  been  found. 

We  might  not  miss  reading  about 
their  wars,  but  it  would  be  most  help- 
ful in  a  return  to  God  if  mankind  had 
the  book  of  the  sacred  covenants  which 
the  Almighty  made  with  his  people. 

The  "Book  of  Jasher,"  referred  to  by 
Joshua,  is  not  in  the  Bible.  The  same 
is  true  of  the  "Book  of  the  Acts  of 
Solomon,"  referred  to  in  First  Kings. 

The  books  of  Nathan  and  Gad,  both 
of  whom  were  prophets  and  seers,  are 
missing.  As  inspired  men,  their  writ- 
ings would  be  an  enlightening  guide  on 
the  way  of  truth. 

Ahijah  and  Iddo  were  prophets  and 
seers  likewise.  Would  their  works  not 
inspire  modern  people  if  they  were 
available?  But  where  are  they?  Can 
we  say  that  our  Bible  is  actually  com- 
plete without  them? 

The  "Book  of  Jehu"  is  mentioned  in 
the  Old  Testament  but  is  not  included 
in  it.  Isaiah  wrote  a  second  book 
known  as  the  "Acts  of  Uzziah,"  but 
where  is  it?  Will  anyone  say  that 
Isaiah's  writings  are  not  inspirational? 
His  second  book  might  prove  to  be  most 
invaluable  if  we  had  it. 

"The  Sayings  of  the  Seers,"  another 
book  of  sacred  writings,  is  referred  to  in 
the  Bible.  Where  is  it  now?  Would 
it  not  be  good  for  today's  Christians  in 
their  spiritual  meanderings? 

Paul  wrote  letters,  in  addition  to  those 
we  have  in  our  Bible,  and  speaks  of 
them.  He  wrote  a  third  letter  to  the 
Corinthians,  and  at  least  another  one 
to  the  Ephesians.  Where  are  they? 
He  also  wrote  an  Epistle  to  the 
Laodiceans,  but  it  is  not  in  our  pos- 
session. Is  the  Bible  then  complete? 
Does  it  contain  all  of  God's  word? 

Jude  wrote  another  Epistle  in  addition 
to  the  one  in  the  New  Testament.  He 
also  mentions  a  volume  of  scripture 
known  as  the  "Prophecies  of  Enoch" 
to  which  he  evidently  had  access,  but 
which  we  do  not  have  today. 

The  Saviour's  Teachings 

Then  there  is  the  matter  of  the 
Savior's  teachings.    He  lived  an  inten- 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


19 


sive  and  full  life  during  the  three  years 
of  his  public  ministry.  He  preached  to 
multitudes  repeatedly.  He  conversed 
with  individuals  almost  constantly,  and 
gave  many  intimate  instructions  to  the 
Twelve. 

Can  anyone  say  that  his  three  years 
of  instruction  are  contained  in  the 
Bible?  May  they  be  read  in  the  few 
hours  it  takes  to  peruse  what  he  said 
in  the  four  Gospels?  Can  three  years 
of  the  Savior's  eloquent  teachings  be 
condensed  into  three  hours  of  reading 
material?  The  Apostle  John  says  twice 
in  his  Gospel  that  not  a  fraction  of  the 
Savior's  ministry  is  recorded. 

Much  as  we  love  it,  sincerely  as  we 
believe  it,  can  we  in  all  truth  say  that 
the  Bible  is  complete,  that  it  contains 
all  of  God's  word,  or  even  the  full  text 
of  the  Savior's  instructions? 

Obviously  the  Lord  gave  other  revela- 
tions anciently.  He  had  prophets  in 
addition  to  those  usually  mentioned  in 
the  Bible.  They  spoke  for  him.  They 
gave  enlightenment  to  ancient  men, 
and  they  would  give  us  light,  too,  if 
only  we  had  their  writings. 

Since  men  have  strayed  so  far  in  the 
past  with  the  Bible  in  their  possession, 
is  it  likely  that  this  same  Bible  by  itself 
can  bring  them  back  to  Christ? 

The  reformers  of  the  sixteenth  cen- 
tury had  the  Bible,  but  it  did  not  keep 
them  from  drifting  in  different  direc- 
tions and  disputing  violently  among 
themselves  as  to  which  way  was  right. 

Can  the  reformers  of  today  do  any 
better? 

Revelation  Needed 

Have  they  any  more  light  and  under- 
standing?   If  so,  where  did  they  get  it? 

Further  enlightenment,  dependable 
enough  to  guide  men  back  to  God,  must 
come  from  God.  That  means  revela- 
tion— prophecy — today. 

If  our  learned  men  really  believe 
their  Bibles  to  which  they  now  hope 
to  return,  they  will  also  believe  that 
modern  revelation  must  come  to  rescue 
them  from  the  morass  into  which  they 
have  fallen,  for  that  is  what  the 
Bible  teaches. 

When  they  seek  a  return  to  Christ 
and  the  Bible,  they  publicly  and  hon- 
estly admit  that  they  have  strayed  from 
him  and  his  teachings,  and  that  the 


doctrines  which  they  have  taught  all 
these  years  differ  from  the  revealed 
word. 

The  scriptures  predicted  this  de- 
parture from  early  Christianity;  and 
when  men  return  to  the  Bible,  we  hope 
they  will  read  those  predictions  in  it, 
for  they  are  many. 

But  the  Bible  also  foretells  a  new 
revelation  in  latter  days — the  actual 
revelation  which  is  so  greatly  needed 
now  to  lead  men  back  to  Christ.  A 
reformation  cannot  lead  them  back,  but 
this  new  revelation  can! 

New  Revelation 

We  Latter-day  Saints  have  that  new 
revelation.  We  have  a  new  prophet 
and  new  scriptures  also,  which,  added 
to  the  Bible,  now  point  the  way.  This 
new  revelation  brought  with  it  the  true 
understanding  of  the  nature  of  God 
and  a  restoration  of  primitive  Chris- 
tianity. That  restoration  is  Mormon- 
ism.  It  came  about  through  the 
ministry  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
Jun.  He  saw  God  and  communed  with 
him,  even  as  did  Moses.  He  received 
revelations  from  heaven,  as  did  Isaiah. 
Angelic  ministers  commissioned  him  for 
the  work,  giving  him  divine  authority. 

Through  him  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  as  it  was  originally  organized  on 
the  earth,  has  been  restored  in  our  day, 
with  all  its  powers  and  blessings.  And 
it  is  true.  It  is  the  beginning  of  a 
modern  ministry  of  Jesus  the  Christ, 
whom  we  declare  to  be  the  Divine  Son 
of  God;  that  he  lives,  and  that  he  has 
been  seen  of  modern  men  in  modern 
times  in  modern  America.  And  this  is 
the  testimony  which  we  bear  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  Just  listened 
is  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  and  also  the  president 
of  the  West  European  Mission. 

We  shall  conclude  this  opening  ses- 
sion of  the  one  hundred  and  thirty- 
fourth  Annual  Conference  of  the 
Church  with  the  Choir  singing,  "Thanks 
Be  To  God,"  conducted  by  Elder 
Richard  P.  Condie.  Following  the  sing- 
ing the  benediction  will  be  pronounced 


20 

Saturday,  April  4 

by  Elder  Warren  E.  Pugh,  formerly 
president  of  the  Northern  California 
Mission.  This  Conference  will  then 
be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this 
afternoon. 

We  are  most  grateful  for  the  coopera- 
tion of  the  owners  and  managers  of  the 
many  television  and  radio  stations  in 
offering  their  facilities  as  a  public  serv- 
ice to  make  the  proceedings  of  this  Con- 
ference available  to  millions  throughout 
North  America,  South  America,  Europe, 
Africa,  and  many  other  areas  in  the 
world. 

We  are  grateful  for  those  who  are 
with  us  on  television  and  radio.  May 
God  bless  them  that  the  spirit  of  this 
session  will  bring  comfort  and  peace  to 
their  hearts. 

We  appreciate  the  attendance  here  of 
educators,  government  officials,  church 
officials,  and  all  visitors  and  members 
who  have  attended  this  service  this 
morning. 

We  express  thanks  and  deep  apprecia- 
tion for  these  beautiful  flowers  which 
decorate  the  rostrum.  The  orchids — 
one   thousand   of   them — have  come 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

from  the  San  Jose  West  Stake  in  Cali- 
fornia. The  daffodils  are  from  the 
Tacoma  Stake  through  the  courtesy  of 
the  Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Commit- 
tee. The  calla  lillies  are  from  the  high 
priests  quorum  of  the  Oakland-Berkeley 
Stake.   All  have  come  to  us  by  airplane. 

After  the  singing  by  the  Choir  the 
benediction  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Warren  E.  Pugh  and  this  Conference 
will  be  adjourned  until  two  o'clock. 

As  a  closing  number  the  Choir  sang 
the  anthem,  "Thanks  Be  To  God." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Choir  will  not  be  here  this  after- 
noon, so  we  take  this  opportunity  of 
saying  "Thank  you  for  your  inspiring 
presence  and  these  beautiful  anthems." 
The  benediction  will  be  by  Elder  Pugh. 

Elder  Warren  E.  Pugh,  formerly 
president  of  the  Northern  California 
Mission  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Conference  reconvened  promptly 
at  2:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  4,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding. 
At  President  McKay's  request  President 
Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the 
First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services 
of  this  session. 

The  music  for  this  afternoon's  meet- 
ing was  furnished  by  a  selected  youth 
choir  from  Salt  Lake  and  Davis  Coun- 
ties, with  Jay  E.  Welch,  (Assistant 
Director  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir)  con- 
ducting, and  Roy  M.  Darley  (Assistant 
Tabernacle  Organist)  at  the  organ 
console. 

President  Brown  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

We  should  like  to  express  again  our 
appreciation  for  the  lovely  flowers 
which  were  mentioned  this  morning. 


We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  a 
Selected  Youth  Choir  from  Salt  Lake 
and  Davis  Counties  will  furnish  the 
music  for  this  session.  Jay  E.  Welch, 
Assistant  Tabernacle  Choir  Conductor, 
will  conduct,  and  Roy  M.  Darley  will 
be  at  the  organ. 

President  McKay  has  written  a  note 
here  regarding  these  young  people 
which  I  should  like  to  read.  He  said: 
"I  never  look  at  the  bright  faces  of 
young  people  that  I  am  not  reminded 
of  the  poet  Longfellow's  words — 

'How  beautiful  is  youth,  how  bright  it 
gleams 

With  its  illusions,  aspirations,  dreams 
Book  of  beginnings,  story  without  end 
Each  maid  a  heroine  and  each  man  a 
friend." 

It  is  a  great  pleasure  to  have  these 
young  people  with  us  today.  They  have 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


21 


practiced  for  many  months  so  that  they 
could  sing  their  very  best  for  us. 

We  should  like  to  recognize  also  some 
of  our  special  visitors  who  are  with  us 
today — United  States  Senators,  Wallace 
F.  Bennett  and  Frank  E.  Moss;  United 
States  House  of  Representatives,  Sher- 
man P.  Lloyd  and  Laurence  J.  Burton; 
Governor  George  D.  Clyde;  Secretary  of 
State,  Lamont  Toronto;  Chancellor  of 
the  Unified  Church  School  System,  Dr. 
Harvey  L.  Taylor;  Acting  President  of 
the  B.  Y.  U.,  Earl  C.  Crockett;  Presi- 
dent of  the  University  of  Utah,  Dr.  A. 
Ray  Olpin;  Superintendent  of  Salt  Lake 
City  Schools,  Lynn  M.  Bennion;  Presi- 
dent of  Weber  College,  William  T. 
Miller;  President  of  Ricks  College,  Dr. 
John  R.  Clarke;  and  President  of  the 
Church  College  of  Hawaii,  Dr.  Richard 
T.  Wooten.  There  may  be  some  whom 
we  have  not  recognized. 

We  shall  begin  this  session,  under 
the  presidency  of  President  David  O. 
McKay,  who  has  asked  me  to  conduct 
this  service;  and  may  I  express  on  behalf 
of  all  of  us  our  sincere  gratitude  to  God 
that  the  President  is  able  to  be  with 
us  and  was  able  to  handle  the  Confer- 
ence so  wonderfully  well  this  morning, 
but  he  feels  that  he  would  rather  we 
would  proceed  this  afternoon. 


We  shall  begin  this  session  by  the 
Chorus  rendering,  "Behold,  God  the 
Lord  Passed  By,"  from  "Elijah."  The 
invocation  will  be  offered  by  Elder  J. 
Vernon  Sharp,  formerly  president  of 
the  Andes  Mission. 

Singing  by  the  Youth  Choir,  "Behold, 
God  the  Lord  Passed  By"  (From  the 
Elijah). 

Elder  J.  Vernon  Sharp,  formerly 
President  of  the  Andes  Mission,  offered 
the  invocation. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  J.  Vernon  Sharp. 

The  Selected  Youth  Chorus  will  now 
favor  us  with  "The  Lord's  Prayer." 


The  Youth  Choir  sang,  "The  Lord's 
Prayer." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  first  speaker 
this  afternoon.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  and  President  of 
the  Southern  Australian  Mission. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


For  the  next  few  minutes  I  should  like 
to  direct  your  thinking  upon  one  of  the 
great  quotations  from  our  Lord  and 
Master,  a  quotation  which  has  been 
the  text  for  many  a  discourse  through- 
out the  years.    The  Master  said: 

"Beware  of  false  prophets,  which 
come  to  you  in  sheep's  clothing,  but 
inwardly  they  are  ravening  wolves. 

"Ye  shall  know  them  by  their  fruits. 
Do  men  gather  grapes  of  thorns,  or  figs 
of  thistles? 

"Even  so  every  good  tree  bringeth 
forth  good  fruit;  but  a  corrupt  tree 
bringeth  forth  evil  fruit. 

"A  good  tree  cannot  bring  forth  evil 
fruit,  neither  can  a  corrupt  tree  bring 
forth  good  fruit. 

"Every  tree  that  bringeth  not  forth 


good  fruit  is  hewn  down,  and  cast  into 
the  fire. 

"Wherefore  by  their  fruits  ye  shall 
know  them."  (Matt.  7:15-20.) 

I  pray  that  what  I  may  say  about  that 
quotation  may  be  in  harmony  with  the 
great  keynote  address,  inspired  as  it 
was  and  delivered  to  us  so  masterfully 
by  our  beloved  President. 

Sometimes  those  who  have  discoursed 
upon  this  text  have  interpreted  this 
parable  or  figure  of  speech,  as  you  may 
call  it,  as  the  fruits  by  which  a  people 
or  a  person  might  be  judged,  applied 
primarily  to  temporal  growth  or  to 
material  gain.  This  concept  is  well  il- 
lustrated by  a  recent  article  about  the 
Church  which  appeared  in  a  national 
magazine  known  as  the  Christian  Cen- 
tury. This  is  what  the  article  said: 


22 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

"Looking  at  the  phenomenal  growth 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  (Mormon)  in  recent  years, 
other  churches  which  view  many  Mor- 
mon beliefs  and  some  Mormon  practices 
as  unbiblical  and  bizarre  ask,  'What 
does  it  have  that  we  don't?'  "  (Jan.  23, 
1963,  p.  102.) 

The  "Fruits" 

Then  the  article  goes  on  to  enumerate 
the  membership  growth,  the  number  of 
missionaries,  the  number  of  missions, 
the  new  congregations,  the  number  of 
hospitals,  the  educational  programs, 
church  members  occupying  high  posts 
in  government.  Then  they  go  on  to 
explain  that  while  proclaiming  disbelief 
in  many  teachings  and  disciplines  they 
suggest  a  reappraisal  of  methods  and 
programs  such  as  house-to-house  evan- 
gelism, relief  programs  for  the  poor, 
education,  recreation,  and  employment 
for  those  who  cannot  provide  for  them- 
selves, the  requiring  of  two  years  of 
missionary  service  without  compensa- 
tion, and  the  extensive  use  of  laymen 
to  keep  to  a  minimum  the  number  of 
professional  church  leaders  as  possible 
explanations  of  the  growth  of  the 
Church. 

True  "Fruits" 

The  article  then  concludes  with  this 
very  significant  statement  from  a  book 
written  by  Frank  S.  Meads  entitled 
Handbook  of  Denominations  in  the 
United  States,  who  declared  that 
the  Mormons'  "missionary  experience 
strengthens  both  them  and  their 
Church,  and  offers  a  model  of  church 
service  and  zeal  equalled  in  very  few  of 
the  other  larger  churches  in  America." 
(New  York:  Abingdon  Press,  1956, 
p.  126.) 

This  last  comment  suggests  the  true 
fruits  by  which  the  Church  and  its 
disciples  may  best  be  judged. 

"He,  the  Omnipotent  Guide" 

This  last  quotation  recalls  something 
that  was  written  by  Dr.  Mosheim  in  his 
Ecclesiastical  History  relative  to  the 
mark  of  the  true  disciples  of  the  period 
following  the  crucifixion  of  the  Savior. 
He  said,  "Historians  testify  that  even 
after  the  Master's  death,  he  was  still 


First  Day 

their  omnipotent  protector  and  their 
benevolent  guide."  Dr.  Mosheim  speaks 
of  the  fulfilment  of  the  Master's  prom- 
ise that  he  would  send  to  them  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost,  the  Comforter,  who 
would  "teach  them  all  things,  bring  all 
things  to  their  remembrance  and  show 
them  things  to  come.  He  would  guide 
them  into  all  truth  and  would  testify 
of  him."  (See  John  14:26;  15:26;  16:13.) 

Then  the  doctor  explains  that  this 
fulfilment  came  on  the  day  of  Pente- 
cost. He  records  a  remarkable  change 
noticeable  in  the  disciples  after  this 
great  event  in  these  words:  "The  con- 
sequences of  this  grand  event  were 
surprising  and  glorious,  infinitely  hon- 
ourable to  the  Christian  religion,  and 
the  divine  mission  of  its  triumphant 
author.  For  no  sooner  had  the  apostles 
received  this  precious  gift,  this  celestial 
guide,  than  their  ignorance  was  turned 
into  light,  their  doubts  into  certainty, 
their  fears  into  a  firm  and  invincible 
fortitude,  and  their  former  backward- 
ness into  an  ardent  and  inextinguishable 
zeal,  which  led  them  to  undertake  their 
sacred  office  with  the  utmost  intrepidity 
and  alacrity  of  mind.  This  marvellous 
event  was  attended  with  a  variety  of 
gifts;  particularly  the  gift  of  tongues, 
so  indispensably  necessary  to  qualify 
the  apostles  to  preach  the  gospel  to  the 
different  nations.  These  holy  apostles 
were  also  filled  with  a  perfect  persua- 
sion, founded  on  Christ's  express  prom- 
ise, that  the  divine  presence  would 
perpetually  accompany  them,  and  show 
itself  by  miraculous  interpositions,  as 
often  as  the  success  of  their  ministry 
should  render  this  necessary.  And,  in- 
deed, there  were  undoubted  marks  of  a 
celestial  power  perpetually  attending 
their  ministry.  There  was  in  their  very 
language  an  incredible  energy,  an 
amazing  power  of  sending  light  into 
the  understanding,  and  conviction  into 
the  heart."  (J.  L.  von  Mosheim,  Ecclesi- 
astical History,  pp.  61,  67.) 

The  Greatest  Strength  of  the  Church 

Today,  as  it  was  then,  it  might  well 
be  said  that  the  greatest  miracles  we 
see  are  not  the  healings  of  sick  bodies, 
but  the  miraculous  changes  that  come 
into  the  lives  of  those  who  become  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  as  all  missionaries 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


23 


will  testify.  The  greatest  strength  of  the 
Church  is  not  the  number  of  units  we 
have,  not  the  amount  of  tithing  that  is 
paid,  nor  the  congregations,  but  the 
greatest  strength  is  the  united  and  fer- 
vent testimonies  that  are  in  the  hearts 
of  church  members.  And  by  that  same 
token,  we  might  say  that  the  greatest 
weapon  against  all  untruth,  whether  it 
be  in  science,  so-called,  or  in  the 
philosophies  of  the  world,  or  in  com- 
munism, or  what  not,  the  greatest 
weapon  is  the  truth  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ,  which  preached  in  power 
will  be  a  bulwark  against  these  false 
ideas  in  the  world  today. 

The  Master  made  some  applications 
of  the  meaning  of  these  spiritual  gifts 
as  "fruit"  or  "fruits."  He  said,  "I  am 
the  vine,  ye  are  the  branches:  He  that 
abideth  in  me,  and  I  in  him,  the  same 
bringeth  forth  much  fruit:  for  without 
me  ye  can  do  nothing. 

"Ye  have  not  chosen  me,  but  I  have 
chosen  you,  and  ordained  you,  that  ye 
should  go  and  bring  forth  fruit,  and 
that  your  fruit  should  remain:  that 
whatsoever  ye  shall  ask  of  the  Father 
in  my  name,  he  may  give  it  you." 
(John  15:5,  16.) 

Speaking  of  these  same  gifts,  the 
Prophet  Alma  says:  "Yea,  after  having 
been  such  a  highly  favored  people  of  the 
Lord;  yea,  after  having  been  favored 
above  every  other  nation,  .  .  . 

"Having  been  visited  by  the  Spirit 
of  God;  having  conversed  with  angels, 
and  having  been  spoken  unto  by  the 
voice  of  the  Lord;  and  having  the  spirit 
of  prophecy,  and  the  spirit  of  revelation, 
and  also  many  gifts,  the  gift  of  speak- 
ing with  tongues,  and  the  gift  of 
preaching,  and  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  and  the  gift  of  translation"; 
(Alma  9:20-21.) 

From  the  beginning,  our  prophet- 
leaders  have  declared,  as  did  the  Apos- 
tle Paul,  ".  .  .  that  your  body  is  the 
temple  of  the  Holy  Ghost  which  is  in 
you,  .  .  ."  (1  Cor.  6:19)  and  then  he 
said,  "If  any  man  defile  the  temple  of 
God,  him  shall  God  destroy;  for  the 
temple  of  God  is  holy,  which  temple 
ye  are."  (Ibid.,  3:17.) 

And  again  in  a  revelation  in  our  day, 
the  Lord  said,  "For  if  you  keep  my  com- 
mandments you  shall  receive  of  his 


fulness,  and  be  glorified  in  me  as  I  am 
in  the  Father;  therefore,  I  say  unto  you, 
you  shall  receive  grace  for  grace." 
(D&C  93:20.) 

In  other  words,  these  scriptures  are 
repeating  what  the  Master  had  de- 
clared: If  we  would  have  the  good  fruits 
of  these  spiritual  gifts,  we  must  make 
sure  that  we  keep  the  tree  good. 

An  interesting  distinction  between 
those  who  bring  forth  good  fruit  and 
those  who  do  not  is  well  illustrated  in 
the  parable  of  the  sower,  as  you  recall, 
where  the  Master  described  the  three 
categories  of  presumably  church  mem- 
bers— those  who  brought  forth  fruit — 
"some  an  hundredfold,"  he  said,  "some 
sixtyfold,  some  thirtyfold."  (Matt.  13:8.) 

And  in  the  interpretation  of  Lehi's 
dream  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  he  has 
four  categories:  those  who  partook  of 
the  fruit,  you  will  recall,  and  remained 
stedfast;  those  who  did  partake  and 
then  were  blinded  by  mists  of  darkness 
which  arose  from  the  river  and  lost 
their  way;  those  who  went  so  far  as 
to  taste  the  fruit  and  then  fell  away 
because  they  were  ridiculed  by  those 
living  in  spacious  dwellings,  represent- 
ing the  riches  of  the  world;  and  finally 
those  who  refused  to  partake  of  the 
delicious  fruit  of  the  tree.  (See  1 
Nephi  8.) 

"Almost,  but  not  quite  .  .  ." 

We  were  back  East  a  short  time  ago, 
and  a  good  bishop  made  an  interesting 
comment  about  what  he  called  the 
saddest  words  that  he  knows  of  a  man 
in  high  station.  He  read  from  the 
words  in  the  days  of  the  Apostle  Paul 
when  Paul  before  King  Agrippa  had 
borne  his  powerful  testimony  of  his 
conversion.  King  Agrippa's  reply  was, 
"Almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a 
Christian."  (Acts  26:28.)  Then  the 
bishop  said,  "The  king  knew  the  truth 
but  he  lacked  the  courage  to  do  that 
which  would  be  required;  and  he  could 
only  say  then,  'Almost  thou  persuadest,' 
almost  persuaded  under  certain  cir- 
cumstances to  do  the  thing  the  Lord 
would  want  him  to  do." 

And  then  he  characterized  some 
things  that  he  discovered  in  his  own 
ward  in  a  short  but  powerful  sermon. 
"In  response  to  the  Master,  'Come  .  .  . 


24 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

follow  me'  (Mark  10:21),  some  members 
almost,"  he  said,  "but  not  quite,  say, 
'thou  persuadest  me  almost  to  be  hon- 
est but  I  need  extra  help  to  pass  a  test.'  " 

You  young  people  in  the  choir  might 
think  of  that. 

"Almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  keep 
the  Sabbath  day  holy,  but  it's  fun  to 
play  ball  on  Sunday. 

"Almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  love 
my  neighbor,  but  he  is  a  rascal;  to  be 
tolerant  of  others'  views,  but  they  are 
dead  wrong;  to  be  kind  to  sister,  but 
she  hit  me  first;  to  go  home  teaching, 
but  it's  so  cold  and  damp  outside  to- 
night; to  pay  tithes  and  offerings,  but 
we  do  need  a  new  color  TV  set;  to 
find  the  owner  of  a  lost  watch,  but  no 
one  returned  the  watch  I  lost;  to  pass 
the  Sacrament,  but  I've  graduated  from 
the  deacons  now;  almost  thou  per- 
suadest me  to  be  reverent,  but  I  had 
to  tell  my  pal  about  my  date  last  night; 
almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  attend 
stake  leadership  meeting,  but  I  know 
more  than  the  leader  on  that  subject, 
so  why  should  I  go.  Thou  persuadest 
me  almost  to  go  to  Sacrament  meeting, 
but  there  is  going  to  be  such  an  un- 
interesting speaker  tonight.  Almost  1 
Almost!  Almost  I  but  not  quite,  not 
able  quite  to  reach." 

How  to  Cultivate  Good  "Fruit" 

There  are  incidents  which  illustrate 
how  good  fruit  can  be  developed  by 
proper  cultivation  of  the  seeds  of  faith 
through  keeping  fully  the  command- 
ments, and  I  want  to  cite  just  two  very 
briefly,  even  though  at  first  the  quality 
of  the  fruits  of  the  Spirit  was  not  so. 

I  have  on  my  desk  a  letter,  and  I  shall 
not  tell  the  name,  of  course,  and  no 
one  excepting  her  will  know  of  whom 
I  speak,  a  mother  of  four  who  has  gone 
through  illness,  pain  that  was  alleviated 
by  what  was  discovered  later  to  be 
habit-forming  pills,  and  then  came  the 
fight  to  overcome  these  devastating 
drugs  until  she  almost  despaired  of  life. 
Then  she  went  to  visit  a  friend,  and  to 
her  surprise  she  found  that  her  friend 
was  paralyzed  by  some  cancerous  afflic- 
tion and  the  severe  medical  treatments 
which  had  followed.  After  visiting 
this  faithful,  devoted  friend,  she  went 
home.   She  said,  "I  had  a  long  talk  with 


First  Day 

the  Lord,  and  I  started  to  count  my 
blessings  instead  of  thinking  that  the 
Lord  was  persecuting  me  personally. 
Now  I  go  to  Sacrament  meeting.  Now 
I  go  to  Relief  Society.  I  am  visiting  the 
sick,  and  I  am  taking  something  that 
I  have  cooked  when  I  visit.  I  am  tak- 
ing church  books  to  friends  from  whom 
I  had  previously  been  estranged."  Then 
she  wrote,  "I  have  now  climbed  from 
the  dark  depths  of  despair  to  the  brink 
where  I  can  now  see  the  sun.  I  am 
trying  to  follow  the  counsel,  'Keep  your 
eyes  fixed  on  the  stars.' " 

A  short  while  ago,  Elder  Franklin  D. 
Richards  and  I  late  at  night  were  asked 
by  a  fine  young  bishop  and  his  stake 
leaders  if  we  would  participate  in  ad- 
ministering to  him.  He  was  facing  the 
possibility  of  an  operation  for  a  fatal 
malady.  They  had  in  obedience  to  the 
Lord's  command  sought  in  the  Lord's 
way  for  help.  He  was  giving  all  the 
service  he  could  as  a  bishop.  He  and 
his  wife  had  been  married  in  the  tem- 
ple, and  with  his  wife  they  had  been 
faithful  in  having  a  little  family;  and 
now  he  had  come  asking  the  Lord  for 
help.  We  heard  no  more  about  it 
until  this  last  week  there  came  a  letter 
from  his  wife  that  said  this: 

Rededication 

"They  operated  and  while  they  found 
masses  of  what  had  appeared  by 
X-ray  to  be  malignant  tumors  in  the 
chest  cavity,  amazingly  they  were  all 
found  to  be  benign.  As  for  my  husband 
and  me,  one  word  describes  our  feel- 
ings now — rededication — to  each  other, 
to  the  Lord,  and  to  our  part  in  build- 
ing up  his  kingdom  upon  this  earth. 
My  husband  asked  me  to  mention  in 
this  letter  to  you  that  the  bishop 
who  returns  to  the  people  of  his  ward 
is  a  more  humble,  compassionate,  and 
dedicated  servant  than  ever  before.  It 
has  taken  this  experience,  though  fright- 
ening as  it  has  been,  to  bring  me  to  the 
full  realization  of  how  precious  life  it- 
self is  and  how  glorious  is  this  gospel 
which  unites  a  love  like  ours  for  all 
time  and  eternity." 

Through  their  surmounting  sickness, 
heartaches,  and  disappointments,  their 
experiences  had  resulted  in  better 
fruit.    They  had  proved  their  fruit  by 


ELDER  BRUCE 

thgir  works.  By  their  fruits,  the  Lord 
has  proved  them.  Life  and  service  have 
taken  on  an  altogether  different  meaning. 

Development  of  Spiritual  Qualities — 
The  True  Fruits 

On  a  missionary  program  that  I  read 
the  other  night,  words  of  President 
McKay  were  quoted  that  seem  appro- 
priate to  what  I  am  talking  about.  Presi- 
dent McKay  was  quoted  as  having  said: 
"Man's  earthly  existence  is  but  a  test 
as  to  whether  he  will  concentrate  his 
efforts,  his  mind,  his  soul,  upon  things 
that  will  contribute  to  the  comfort  and 
gratification  of  his  physical  nature,  or 
whether  he  will  make  as  his  life's  pur- 
suit the  acquisition  of  spiritual  qualities." 

In  short,  the  President  has  said  to  us, 
the  development  of  one's  spiritual  quali- 
ties will  determine  whether  or  not  his 
has  been  a  good  tree,  and  that  to  be 
determined  only  by  the  quality  of  the 
fruit,  or  the  spiritual  gifts  which 
come  therefrom. 

Mortality:  Always  Pain 

A  young  mother  went  through  the 
trying  experience  of  having  a  little 
child  who  was  killed  in  an  accident, 
and  she  came  and  sought  a  blessing 
for  comfort.  She  asked  through  her 
tears,  "Must  there  always  be  pain  in 
this  life?"  I  thought  a  few  minutes, 
and  then  said,  "The  Apostle  Paul  said 
of  the  Master,  the  Lord  and  Savior, 
'Though  he  were  a  Son,  yet  learned  he 
obedience  by  the  things  which  he 
suffered.'  (Heb.  5:8.)  I  suppose  that 
the  answer  is  yes;  there  must  always 
be  pain  in  this  life  of  travail  and  sorrow, 
and  there  is  a  purpose  in  it  all." 

"The  road  is  rough,  I  said 

Dear  Lord,  there  are  stones  that  hurt 
me  so. 

And  he  said,  Dear  child,  I  understand, 
I  walked  it  long  ago. 


R.  McCONKIE  25 

"But  there  is  a  cool  green  path,  I  said 
Let  me  walk  there  for  a  time. 

No  child,  He  gently  answered  me, 
The  green  road  does  not  climb. 

"My  burden,  I  said,  is  far  too  great, 

How  can  I  bear  it  so? 
My  child,   said  he,  I   remember  its 
weight, 

I  carried  my  cross,  you  know. 

"But,  I  said,  I  wish  there  were  friends 
with  me 

Who  would  make  my  way  their  own. 
Ah,  yes,  he  said,  Gethsemane 
Was  hard  to  face  alone. 

"And  so  I  climbed  the  stony  path, 

Content  at  last  to  know 
That  where  my  Master  had  not  gone, 

I  would  not  need  to  go. 

"And  strangely  then  I  found  new  friends 

The  burden  grew  less  sore 
As  I  remembered — long  ago 

He  went  that  way  before." 

("In  His  Steps"- — Leona  B.  Gates) 

God  help  us  to  understand  how  we 
shall  develop  sometimes  through  heart- 
ache, sorrow,  and  tears  those  spiritual 
qualities  except  for  which  none  of  us 
can  achieve  to  the  place  of  kinship  to 
him  who  suffered  more  than  any  of  us 
may  understand,  and  this  I  pray  and 
bear  you  my  solemn  witness  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Bruce  R.  Mc- 
Conkie  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy 
and  president  of  the  Southern  Australian 
Mission  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

To  all  who  love  the  Lord  and  desire  is  whether  the  prophet  of  that  day  was 

salvation  in  his  kingdom,  I  pose  this  sent  of  God.    Those  who  faced  the 

question:   Was    Joseph    Smith    called  peril  of  a  world-destroying  flood  were 

of  God?  In  every  age  the  great  question  required  to  answer  this  question:  Was 


26 

Saturday,  April  4 

Noah  called  of  God?  Those  seeking 
escape  from  slavery  in  Egypt  were 
forced  to  decide:  Was  Moses  called  of 
God?  Those  among  whom  our  Lord 
himself  ministered  had  to  decide,  at  the 
peril  of  their  own  eternal  salvation, 
whether  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the 
promised  Messiah,  the  very  Son  of  God. 

And  so  it  is  today.  In  an  age  when 
some  people  assume  that  Deity  no 
longer  speaks  through  prophets  as  he 
did  anciently,  the  great  question  facing 
honest  truth  seekers  is:  Was  Joseph 
Smith  called  of  God?  If  Joseph  Smith 
was  called  of  God,  the  gospel  plan 
restored  through  his  instrumentality  is 
the  mind  and  will  of  the  Lord  and  the 
only  way  whereby  men  can  gain  full 
salvation  in  the  kingdom  of  heaven. 

God  has  Spoken  Again 

Accordingly,  we  announce  that  God 
has  spoken  again  in  our  day;  that  the 
heavens  are  no  longer  sealed;  that 
revelation  has  commenced  anew;  that 
the  promised  era  of  restoration  and 
gathering  has  begun.  We  teach  and 
testify  that  God  has  restored  the  fulness 
of  his  everlasting  gospel;  that  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ — in  all  its  glory, 
beauty,  and  perfection — has  again  been 
set  up  on  earth;  that  the  very  kingdom 
of  God  is  again  here  among  men. 

He  has  Conferred  Power  from 
"On  High" 

We  speak  with  surety  of  angels  com- 
ing to  earth  to  confer  priesthood,  to 
bestow  keys,  to  minister  to  men.  We 
proclaim  that  an  unchangeable  God,  in 
whose  sight  a  soul  is  just  as  precious 
today  as  it  ever  was,  has  again  poured 
out  upon  his  Saints  the  same  signs,  the 
same  gifts  of  the  Spirit,  the  same  mir- 
acles enjoyed  of  old.  We  are  witnesses 
that  the  plan  of  salvation  is  revealed 
anew,  and  we  are  doing  all  in  our 
power  to  teach  its  terms  and  conditions 
to  our  Father's  children  everywhere,  so 
that  they  can  gain  peace  in  this  life 
and  eternal  life  in  the  world  to  come. 

If  all  this  is  true — and  we  so  testify 
(as  did  the  prophets  of  old  of  the  truth 
and  divinity  of  their  messages) — there 
neither  is  nor  can  be  any  message  to 
compare  with  it.  If  the  voice  of  God 
is  heard  again;  if  angels  are  descending 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

again  from  the  courts  on  high;  if  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  again  poured 
out  upon  men — what  is  there  in  all 
the  earth  to  compare  in  importance 
with  it? 

And  it  all  began,  for  our  day,  with 
Joseph  Smith  and  other  faithful  souls 
associated  with  him.  In  the  spring  of 
1820  a  spirit  of  religious  revivalism 
swept  the  frontier  areas  of  America. 
Contending  professors  of  religion  were 
crying,  "Lo,  here  is  Christ,"  or 
"Lo,  there." 

Finding  himself  "In  the  midst  of  this 
war  of  words  and  tumult  of  opinions," 
Joseph  Smith  was  led  by  the  Spirit  to 
ask:  "Who  of  all  these  parties  are  right; 
or,  are  they  all  wrong  together?  If 
any  one  of  them  be  right,  which  is  it, 
and  how  shall  I  know  it?"  (Joseph 
Smith  2:10.) 

He  read  in  the  Epistle  of  James:  "If 
any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of 
God,  that  giveth  to  all  men  liberally, 
and  upbraideth  not;  and  it  shall  be 
given  him."  (James  1:5.) 

Guided  by  the  Spirit,  he  did  ask  of 
God.  And  since  the  time  had  come  for 
the  opening  of  this  final  great  gospel 
dispensation,  and  because  he  was  the 
one  chosen  from  eternity  to  commence 
the  work,  he  received  a  transcendent 
heavenly  manifestation. 

The  First  Vision 

"...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly 
over  my  head,  above  the  brightness  of 
the  sun,"  he  says,  "which  descended 
gradually  until  it  fell  upon  me. 

".  .  .  When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I 
saw  two  Personages,  whose  brightness 
and  glory  defy  all  description,  standing 
above  me  in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake 
unto  me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said, 
pointing  to  the  other — This  is  My 
Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph 
Smith  2:16-17.) 

Then  from  the  lips  of  the  Resurrected 
Lord,  the  young  Prophet  received  the 
command  to  join  none  of  the  sects  of 
the  day,  and  also  the  promise  that  if 
he  remained  true  and  faithful  he  would 
be  the  instrument  in  the  Lord's  hands 
to  restore  again  to  earth  the  fulness 
of  the  everlasting  gospel. 

In  due  course,  amid  testings  and 
trials,   other    revelations   came.  The 


ELDER  BRUCE 

Book  of  Mormon  was  revealed,  trans- 
lated, and  published  as  a  new  witness 
of  Christ  and  his  gospel — an  inspired 
record  of  God's  dealings  with  the  an- 
cient inhabitants  of  America.  Angels 
restored  the  priesthood  and  keys  so 
essential  to  the  work  of  the  Lord  on 
earth.  The  doctrines  of  salvation,  as 
preserved  in  the  Bible,  were  confirmed 
and  clarified  by  modern  revelation. 
New  light  and  knowledge,  new  revela- 
tion, to  meet  all  the  challenges  of  a 
modern  world,  were  added  to  the  canon 
of  scripture. 

The  Church  Organized 

On  April  6,  1830,  by  revelation  and 
commandment,  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ,  the  same  organization  set  up 
and  perfected  by  Jesus  and  his  Apostles 
of  old,  was  again  established  among 
men.  In  it  the  Lord  placed  Apostles 
and  prophets,  revelation  and  visions, 
signs  and  miracles,  the  gift  of  the  Holy 
Ghost,  the  true  doctrines  of  salvation — 
indeed,  all  that  was  enjoyed  by  those 
of  old  who  wrought  righteousness,  ob- 
tained promises,  and  gained  eternal  life. 

To  this  newly  set-up  kingdom  of  our 
Lord,  the  command  came  to  carry  the 
restored  message  of  salvation  to  all 
men.  With  this  commission  came  the 
revealed  promise  that  the  gospel  would 
roll  forth,  as  the  stone  cut  from  the 
mountain  without  hands,  until  it  filled 
the  whole  earth.  The  present  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
with  its  millions  of  members  and  tens 
of  thousands  of  missionaries,  is  con- 
tinuing the  work  which  will  some  day 
see  the  fulfilment  of  this  divine  promise. 

Now,  what  of  all  these  things?  Are 
they  true  or  false?  In  the  very  nature 
of  things  there  is  no  middle  ground. 
Our  position  is  not  like  that  of  other 
organizations  or  churches.  We  are  a 
peculiar  people. 

Covenants  and  Commandments 

We  say  God  has  spoken  from  heaven 
giving  us  covenants  and  commandments. 

We  say  angels  have  come  from  the 
presence  of  the  Lord  giving  the  same 
priesthood  possessed  by  prophets  of  old. 

We  say  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of 
God  to  commence  the  promised  restitu- 


R.  McCONKIE  27 

tion  of  all  things  and  the  latter-day 
gathering  of  Israel. 

We  say  there  are  on  earth  today 
Apostles  and  prophets  in  the  same  literal 
sense  in  which  such  men  graced  this 
globe  in  generations  gone. 

We  say  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  earth  and  that  in  and  through 
it  men  may  gain  the  kingdom  of  heaven 
hereafter. 

Now,  these  things  are  either  true  or 
false.  Either  God  has  spoken  again 
or  the  silence  of  centuries  remains  un- 
broken. Either  angels  have  come  or 
they  have  not.  Either  the  gospel  has 
been  restored  or  the  diverse  and  variant 
forms  of  a  waning  Christianity  remain 
the  best  hope  of  the  world.  Either 
Joseph  Smith  was  called  of  God  or  he 
was  not. 

If  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet,  our 
professions  are  true.  From  that  spring 
day  in  1820  to  the  present  moment, 
Joseph  Smith's  name  has  increasingly 
been  the  center  of  religious  inquiry. 
Hosts  of  men  have  sought  to  learn 
about  his  prophetic  calling. 

Once  when  he  was  in  dire  and 
perilous  circumstances  the  voice  of  God 
comforted  him  with  this  assurance: 
"The  ends  of  the  earth  shall  inquire 
after  thy  name,  and  fools  shall  have 
thee  in  derision,  and  hell  shall  rage 
against  thee; 

"While  the  pure  in  heart,  and  the 
wise,  and  the  noble,  and  the  virtuous, 
shall  seek  counsel,  and  authority,  and 
blessings  constantly  from  under  thy 
hand."  (D&C  122:1-2.) 

His  Atoning  Sacrifice 

Certainly  salvation  centers  in  and 
comes  because  of  Christ  and  his  atoning 
sacrifice.  He  is  the  Lord  God  Omnipo- 
tent, the  Creator,  the  Redeemer,  the 
Savior  of  the  World.  But  Christ  is 
known  by  and  revealed  through  his 
prophets.  Joseph  Smith  was  the  re- 
vealer  of  Christ  and  his  gospel  to  the 
world  for  this  age.  When  the  ends 
of  the  earth  inquire  after  the  name  of 
Joseph  Smith,  it  is  because  they  seek  the 
knowledge  of  Christ  and  of  salvation 
that  was  revealed  through  him.  In- 
deed, the  revealed  decree  of  Christ  to 
Joseph  Smith  is:  ".  .  .  this  generation 


28  GENERAL  C 

Saturday,  April  4 

shall  have  my  word  through  you." 
(Ibid.,  5:10.) 

Further:  To  the  newly  established 
Church  in  this  dispensation  the  Lord 
said,  speaking  of  Joseph  Smith:  ".  .  . 
thou  shalt  give  heed  unto  all  his  words 
and  commandments  which  he  shall 
give  unto  you  as  he  receiveth  them, 
walking  in  all  holiness  before  me; 

"For  his  word  ye  shall  receive,  as  if 
from  mine  own  mouth,  in  all  patience 
and  faith."  (Ibid.,  21:4-5.) 

The  Divine  Mission  of  Joseph  Smith 

Thus  when  we  bear  record  of  the 
divine  mission  of  Joseph  Smith,  we  are 
also  certifying  to  the  divine  Sonship  of 
him  whose  servant  the  Prophet  was. 
And  when  men  of  sobriety  and  sense 
testify,  in  all  humility  and  with  deep 
conviction,  that  they  know  by  personal 
revelation  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a 
Prophet,  an  obligation  rests  upon  all 
who  hear  to  investigate  and  learn  for 
themselves  whether  that  testimony 
is  true. 

When  Philip  learned  for  himself  that 
Jesus  was  the  promised  Messiah,  he 
sought  out  Nathanael  and  bore  this 
testimony:  "We  have  found  him,  of 
whom  Moses  in  the  law,  and  the 
prophets,  did  write,  Jesus  of  Nazareth, 
.  .  ."  Nathanael  was  skeptical.  "Can 
there  any  good  thing  come  out  of 
Nazareth?"  he  asked. 

"Philip  saith  unto  him,  Come  and 
see." 

Nathanael  came,  investigated,  learned 
for  himself,  and,  speaking  directly  to 
Jesus,  bore  this  testimony:  ".  .  .  thou 
art  the  Son  of  God;  thou  art  the  King 
of  Israel."  (See  John  1:41-51.) 

Restitution  of  All  Things 

Similarly,  we  say  to  all  men  every- 
where: "We  have  found  the  mighty 
prophet  of  the  latter  days,  the  one 
called  of  God  to  bring  to  pass  the 
promised  restitution  of  all  things 
spoken  by  the  mouths  of  all  his  holy 
prophets  since  the  world  began."  (See 
Acts  3:19-21.) 

We  know  some  will  be  skeptical. 
They  will  say:  "Can  it  be  that  there 


First  Day 

are  actually  prophets  of  God  on  earth 
again?  Is  it  possible  that  God  gives 
revelation  today?"  To  which  we  say: 
"Come  and  see.  Inquire.  Investigate. 
Learn  for  yourself.  Ask  God.  Re- 
member the  promise:  'If  any  of  you 
lack  wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that 
giveth  to  all  men  liberally,  and  up- 
braideth  not;  and  it  shall  be  given 
him.'"  (James  1:5.) 

In  issuing  this  invitation  we  know  full 
well  that  "the  pure  in  heart,  and  the 
wise,  and  the  noble,  and  the  virtuous," 
among  all  nations  will  gain  personal 
testimonies  of  the  divinity  of  this  great 
latter-day  work.  They  will  know  as  we 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  called  of 
God,  for  the  Spirit  will  bear  record  to 
them,  as  it  has  to  us,  and  as  it  did  to 
the  modern  Apostle  who,  in  announcing 
for  the  Church  the  martyrdom  of  the 
Prophet,  wrote  these  words: 

"Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet  and  Seer 
of  the  Lord,  has  done  more,  save  Jesus 
only,  for  the  salvation  of  men  in  this 
world,  than  any  other  man  that  ever 
lived  in  it."  (D&C  135:3.) 

In  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  addressed 
us. 

The  Chorus  and  congregation  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "Come,  O  Thou 
King  of  Kings,"  conducted  by  Jay  E. 
Welch,  with  Roy  M.  Darley  at  the 
organ. 

After  the  singing  Elder  William  J. 
Critchlow,  Jr.,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
will  address  us. 

The  Selected  Youth  Choir  and  the 
congregation  joined  in  singing  the 
hymn,  "Come,  O  Thou  King  of  Kings." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  now  address  us,  and 
he  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Howard  W. 
Hunter  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


29 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Once,  as  my  wife  and  I  were  observing 
our  wedding  anniversary  quietly  at 
home  I  called  across  a  room  to  her 
facetiously:  "Mama,  where  will  we 
be  one  million  years  from  now?" 

"Oh,  pshaw,"  she  said — just  like  that, 
without  as  much  as  a  glance  in  my 
direction.  She  was  busy  frosting  a 
cake.  Then,  all  of  a  sudden,  she 
startled  me.  Laying  down  her  spatula, 
she  turned  and  came  toward  me,  and, 
grasping  the  lapels  of  my  coat,  she 
pulled  herself  up  on  her  toes  and  with 
her  lips  close  to  mine,  she  said  tenderly: 
"I  only  know  I  want  to  be  with  you, 
one  million  years  from  now.  And  may 
I  have  the  boys  (our  two  sons)  home 
for  breakfast  every  Tuesday,  just  as  we 
do  now?  And  may  I  have  all  of  the 
grandchildren  home  for  Thanksgiving? 
And  may  I  have  a  big  Christmas  tree 
and  logs  in  the  fireplace  and  all  of  the 
family  home  for  Christmas  — just  as  we 
do  now?  And  may  I  have  a  big  home 
with  lots  of  rooms  in  it?  And  will  you 
keep  saving  up  for  it — just  as  you  are 
now?  Promise  me,  promise  me,  say 
yes,  say  yes,  right  now  say  yes." 

So,  I  said  "yes."  I  was  trapped — and 
I  promised,  and  I  sealed  the  promise 
with  a  kiss.  Well,  she  fairly  pounded 
the  promise  out  of  me  with  her  fists, 
still  clenching  the  lapels  of  my  coat. 
Besides,  a  promise  with  a  million  years 
to  make  it  good  didn't  seem  to  bother 
me  at  that  moment  and,  thinking  out 
loud,  I  said,  "If  I  save  only  one  dollar 
a  year  over  a  million  years,  I  could 
save  a  million  dollars  and  that  should 
buy  a  mansion." 

"That's  what  I  want;"  she  said,  "a 
mansion.  Jesus  said  'In  my  Father's 
house  are  many  mansions:  .  .  .'  (John 
14:2)  and  we'll  need  one — a  big  one  for 
our  spirit  children.  I  hope  we  have  many 
of  them.  Daddy,  your  family  may  not 
all  be  raised — one  million  years  from 
now.  You  see,  dear," — she  was  still 
talking,  and  now  there  was  no  trace 
of  facetiousness  in  her  speech — "my 
love  for  you  is  eternal,  as  is  my  love  for 
our  children — those  with  us  now  and 
those  to  come  hereafter.    I  want  an 


eternal  family.  I  want  to  share  with 
you  eternal  life.  Please  build  for  all  of 
us  a  'mansion  in  the  sky.'  Save  up  for 
it  please." 

Eternal  Life 

Those  last  three  short  sentences: — 

My  love  for  you  is  eternal.  .  .  . 
I  want  an  eternal  family. 
I  want  to  share  with  you  eternal  life- 
comprise  the  prettiest  speech  my  wife 
ever  meant  to  make.  Factually  she 
didn't  speak  them — save  in  her  heart, 
but  she  did  inspire  them.  The 
melody  was  hers;  I  added  the  lyrics. 
What  a  melody  of  love  for  couples  con- 
templating marriage  vows — -husbands 
and  wives — others — who  will  pause  to 
ponder  on  what  eternity  may  hold  for 
them,  future-wise. 

President  McKay  must  have  pondered 
on  eternity,  else  why  did  he  write: 
"love  is  as  eternal  as  the  spirit  of  man 
...  if  earthly  things  are  typical  of 
heavenly  things,  in  the  spirit  world  we 
shall  recognize  our  loved  ones  and 
know  them  as  we  loved  them  here  .  .  . 
for  each  of  you  husbands  will  recog- 
nize your  wife  .  .  .  and  you  will  love 
her  there  as  you  love  her  here.  .  .  . 
Why  should  death  separate  you  when 
love  will  continue  after  death?" 
(Dedicatory  speech — Swiss  Temple.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  pondering 
eternity,  said  he  expected  "to  take  his 
relatives  and  friends  by  the  hand,  and 
embrace  them.  Father,  son,  mother, 
daughter,  brother,  sister,  wife,  children 
— these  all  would  be  as  dear  in  the 
Hereafter  as  here."  (Joseph  Smith  an 
American  Prophet,  John  Henry  Evans, 
p.  261.) 

Parley  P.  Pratt,  also  pondering  eter- 
nity, wrote:  "The  order  of  God's  govern- 
ment, both  in  time  and  in  eternity,  is 
patriarchal;  that  is,  it  is  a  fatherly  gov- 
ernment. Each  father  who  is  raised 
from  the  dead  and  made  a  partaker  of 
the  celestial  glory  in  its  fulness  will 
hold  lawful  jurisdiction  over  his  own 
children  and  over  all  the  families  which 


30 

Saturday,  April  4 

sprang  of  them  to  all  generations,  for- 
ever and  ever."  (The  Improvement  Era, 
August  1961,  p.  580.) 

President  McKay,  Joseph  Smith,  and 
Parley  P.  Pratt  were  obviously  speaking 
of  souls  who  faithfully  observe  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 

My  bride  and  I,  pondering  eternity, 
decided,  of  course,  on  a  temple  marriage. 
Our  children  came  to  us  under  that 
marriage  covenant.  The  plans  for 
building  a  "mansion  in  the  sky"  we 
found  in  the  gospel  plan — and  in  that 
plan  we  learned  how  to  build,  also  how 
to  save  to  insure  eternal  love  and  eter- 
nal life. 

My  wife,  in  her  pretended  pretty 
speech,  pleasingly  disclosed  what  the 
gospel  may  do  for  faithful,  covenanted 
children  hereafter,  or  future-wise. 

Pertinent  to  that  future  state,  the 
Apostle  Paul  made  this  cheerful  com- 
ment: ".  .  .  God,  that  cannot  lie,  prom- 
ised before  the  world  began";  ".  .  .  in 
the  hope  of  eternal  life"  things  that  "Eye 
hath  not  seen,  nor  ear  heard,  neither 
have  entered  into  the  heart  of  men, 
the  things  which  God  hath  prepared 
for  them  that  love  him."  (Titus  1:2; 
1  Cor.  2:9.) 

Suppose  we  now  come  down  out  of 
the  "clouds  of  heaven"  and  pull  our 
thoughts  away  from  "mansions  in  the 
sky"  and  focus  them  for  a  minute  or 
two  on  the  blessings  which  the  gospel 
holds  for  us  present-wise,  right  here 
and  now. 

Blessings  of  the  Present 

First  on  my  list  I've  placed: 

The  privilege  of  associating  and  fel- 
lowshiping  with  good  friends  and  you 
great  leaders.  This  is  a  blessing  we 
usually  take  for  granted.  I  have  found 
such  leaders  and  friends  in  every  stake 
and  mission  in  which  I've  visited.  And 
how  I  have  enjoyed  them. 

Opportunities  for  service  is  another 
very  special  privilege  and  blessing. 

Happiness,  a  by-product  of  service, 
naturally  follows  opportunity  for  serv- 
ice. Only  those  who  have  served  will 
appreciate  this  blessing.  Returned  mis- 
sionaries attest  this  enthusiastically. 

Health  through  obedience  to  the 
gospel's  law  of  health,  the  Word  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Wisdom — is  a  blessing  sometimes  lightly 
appreciated. 

Ministrations  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  to 
acquaint  me  with  truth  and  to  com- 
fort me  in  trials  and  sorrows,  are  blessings 
I  wish  I  had  time  to  explore  with  you. 

Peace  of  mind  is  another  blessing 
which  I  must  explore  briefly. 

Once  when  Dr.  Joshua  Loth  Lieb- 
man  was  a  young  man,  he  "undertook 
to  draw  up  a  catalogue  of  the  acknowl- 
edged 'goods'  of  life  ...  I  set  down," 
he  said,  "my  inventory  of  earthly  de- 
sirables: health,  love,  beauty,  talent, 
power,  riches,  and  fame.  .  .  .  When 
my  inventory  was  complete  I  proudly 
showed  it  to  a  wise  elder.  .  .  . 

"  An  excellent  list,'  he  said,  'and 
set  down  in  not-unreasonable  order. 
But  .  .  .  you  have  omitted  the  most  im- 
portant element  of  all  .  .  .  lacking 
which  .  .  .  your  list  [becomes]  an  in- 
tolerable burden.' 

"With  a  pencil  stub  he  crossed  out 
my  entire  schedule.  Then  ...  he  wrote 
down  three  syllables:  peace  of  mind. 

Peace  of  Mind 

"  'This  is  the  gift  that  God  reserved 
for  His  special  proteges,'  he  said.  'Tal- 
ent and  health  He  gives  to  many. 
Wealth  is  commonplace,  fame  not  rare. 
But  peace  of  mind  .  .  .  He  bestows 
it  charily.' 

"  'This  is  no  private  opinion  of  mine,' 
he  explained.  'I  am  merely  paraphras- 
ing from  the  Psalmist  .  .  .  God,  Lord 
of  the  Universe  .  .  .  heap  worldly  gifts 
at  the  feet  of  foolish  men.  .  .  .  Give 
me  the  gift  of  the  Untroubled  Mind.' " 
(Liebman,  Joshua  Loth,  Peace  of  Mind, 
New  York:  Simon  and  Schuster,  1946, 
p.  3-4.) 

Dr.  Liebman  may  yet  discover  that 
the  gift  of  an  untroubled  mind,  like 
happiness,  is  a  by-product  of  gospel 
living.  I  do  sincerely  believe  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  is  a  certain,  a  sure,  and 
a  true  source  of  peace  of  mind. 

Our  Heavenly  Father  wants  his  chil- 
dren to  be  happy,  to  have  joy  and  un- 
trouble  minds.  He  didn't  send  us  to 
earth  to  be  rid  of  us.  He  loves  us. 
He  doesn't  always  love  the  things  we 
do,  but  he  does  love  us,  and  he  has 
provided  for  us  a  program,  a  recipe,  if 
you  please,  for  our  happiness  and  peace 


ELDER  WILLIAM  J.  CRITCHLOW,  JR. 


31 


of  mind.  We  call  it  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  a  few  clear,  concise,  simple  laws 
which  if  observed  will  provide  the  joy 
he  intended  for  us. 

".  .  .  men  are,  that  they  might  have 
joy,"  said  an  ancient  prophet.  (2  Nephi 
2:25.) 

Fulness  of  Joy 

Jesus  said,  "These  things  have  I 
spoken  unto  you,  that  my  joy  might 
remain  in  you,  and  that  your  joy  might 
be  full."  (John  15:11.) 

The  great  American  prophet  Joseph 
Smith  wrote:  "Happiness  is  the  object 
and  design  of  our  existence;  and  will 
be  the  end  thereof,  if  we  pursue  the 
path  that  leads  to  it;  .  .  .  (Teachings 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  p.  255.) 

Trodding  that  gospel  path  I  have 
found  happiness  and  peace  of  mind. 
I  commend  that  path  to  Dr.  Liebman 
and  to  others  as  a  "sure  fire"  remedy  for 
troubled  minds. 

The  gospel  answers  satisfactorily  for 
me  problems  which  have  piqued  man's 
curiosity  and  peace  of  mind  throughout 
the  ages,  such  as  why  I  am  here,  from 
whence  I  came,  and  my  status  after 
death.  The  gospel  has  resolved  these 
problems  for  me — it  will  for  all  who 
accept  it. 

Blessings  of  the  Priesthood 

The  opportunity  to  have  the  priest- 
hood is,  in  my  humble  opinion,  perhaps 
the  greatest  blessing  to  accrue  to  me 
by  virtue  of  the  gospel  and  my  mem- 
bership in  the  Church.  Appraising  this 
blessing  our  Lord  and  Savior  said: 

".  .  .  all  they  who  receive  this  priest- 
hood receive  me.  .  .  . 

"And  he  that  receiveth  me  receiveth 
my  Father; 

"And  he  that  receiveth  my  Father 
receiveth  my  Father's  kingdom;  there- 
fore all  that  my  Father  hath  shall  be 
given  him."  (D&C  84:35,  37-38.) 

Obviously,  all  that  the  Father  hath 
will  not  accrue  to  men  here  in  this 
mortal  sphere  of  everlasting  life,  but 
when  did  our  Father  ever  place  a  limit 
on  the  number  of  blessings  mortal 
men  might  receive  in  time  and  place 
of  need  provided  they  honor  their 
priesthood? 

To  Jesus  was  given  the  assignment  of 


organizing  or  creating  the  world.  He 
was  also  given  the  responsibility  of 
carrying  out  his  Father's  program  here 
on  earth.  To  assist  him  in  his  adminis- 
trative duties  he  has  chosen  administra- 
tive assistants  and  made  them  officers 
in  his  kingdom.  These  are  they  who 
hold  the  priesthood.  He  has  also  pro- 
vided, all  through  the  ages,  direct  lines 
of  communication  to  his  prophets,  the 
higher  officers  in  his  kingdom,  for  con- 
veying instructions  in  matters  con- 
cerning his  kingdom.  He  has  also  set 
up  transmission  lines  and  service  leads 
through  which  the  power  of  God 
(priesthood)  may  flow  to  all  of  his 
officers. 

The  power  of  priesthood  is  not  in 
his  officers  but  through  them  just  as 
the  power  of  electricity  is  not  in  the 
wire  but  through  it.  Carelessness 
around  electric  power  lines  can  be  sud- 
denly lethal.  Carelessness  around  priest- 
hood power  lines  can  be  slowly  lethal, 
producing  a  lingering,  withering,  spir- 
itual death. 

The  genius  of  man,  employing  the 
great  power  called  electricity,  has  made 
possible  the  transmission  and  reception 
of  sound  and  sight  all  over  and 
around  the  world — perhaps  beyond — 
who  knows.  The  sets  employed  are  the 
telegraph,  the  telephone,  radio,  and 
TV.  But  the  genius  of  man  is  dwarfed 
by  the  omnipotence  of  God,  who,  em- 
ploying that  great  power  of  God — priest- 
hood, has  created  sets  that  are  truly 
"out  of  this  world,"  for  out  of  this 
world  and  far  beyond,  even  nigh  unto 
Kolob  where  God  dwells,  their  messages 
are  beamed.  We  call  these  marvelous 
sets,  mortal  bodies,  my  body,  your 
bodies. 

These  souls  can  dial  God  in  anytime, 
anyplace,  in  any  circumstances  by 
merely  saying,  "Our  Father  who  art  in 
heaven."  And  there  will  never  be  a 
busy  line,  never  any  interference,  never 
a  line  out  of  order.  God  always  hears 
and  answers  the  prayers  of  the  faithful. 

His  messages  to  his  children  usually 
come  by  inspiration  or  revelation.  Oral 
messages  are  not  always  exclusively  for 
his  prophets. 

When  these  human  receiving  sets 
are  energized  with  priesthood,  by  the 
laying  on  of  authoritative  hands,  the 


32 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

communication  lines  are  activated  and 
the  transmission  lines  are  opened  to 
permit  the  flow  of  priesthood  power. 
And  by  that  power  the  sick  are  blessed, 
the  sorrowful  are  comforted,  the  abili- 
ties of  officers  to  serve  are  strengthened. 
Men  are  thus  empowered  and  magni- 
fied in  their  callings. 

The  gospel  and  my  church  member- 
ship afford  me  the  opportunity  to 
have  the  priesthood.  It  is  a  very  choice 
blessing. 

My  list  of  gospel  blessings  is  not 
exhausted — far  from  it.  Time,  however, 
forbids  exploring  them. 

I  began  this  talk  with  a  fanciful  little 
speech  by  my  wife  on  what  the  gospel 
may  hold  for  her  future-wise.  I  added 
a  few  things,  but  only  a  few,  to  show 
what  the  gospel  has  done  for  me  and 
may  do  for  you  present-wise.  May  I 
conclude  with  a  word  or  two  about 
what  the  gospel  teaches  about  our  bless- 
ings, past-wise,  pre-natal,  or  pre-earth. 
A  comment  by  Father  Abraham,  uttered 
nearly  4,000  years  ago,  should  suffice: 

Intelligence  Before  the  World  Was 

"Now  the  Lord  had  shown  unto  me, 
Abraham,  the  intelligences  that  were 
organized  before  the  world  was;  and 
among  all  these  were  many  of  the  noble 
and  great  ones; 

"And  God  saw  these  souls  that  they 
were  good,  and  he  stood  in  the  midst 
of  them,  and  he  said:  These  I  will 
make  my  rulers;  for  he  stood  among 
those  that  were  spirits,  and  he  saw  that 
they  were  good;  and  he  said  unto  me: 
Abraham,  thou  art  one  of  them;  thou 
wast  chosen  before  thou  wast  born. 

"And  there  stood  one  among  them 
that  was  like  unto  God,  and  he  said 
unto  those  who  were  with  him:  We  will 
go  down,  for  there  is  space  there,  and 
we  will  take  of  these  materials,  and  we 
will  make  an  earth  whereon  these  may 
dwell; 

"And  we  will  prove  them  herewith, 
to  see  if  they  will  do  all  things  what- 
soever the  Lord  their  God  shall  com- 
mand them; 

"And  they  who  keep  their  first  estate 
shall  be  added  upon;  and  they  who  keep 
not  their  first  estate  shall  not  have 
glory  in  the  same  kingdom  with  those 
who  keep  their  first  estate;  and  they 


First  Day 

who  keep  their  second  estate  shall  have 
glory  added  upon  their  heads  for  ever 
and  ever. 

"And  the  Lord  said:  Whom  shall  I 
send?  And  one  answered  like  unto  the 
Son  of  Man:  Here  am  I,  send  me.  And 
another  answered  and  said:  Here  am  I, 
send  me.  And  the  Lord  said:  I  will 
send  the  first. 

"And  the  second  was  angry,  and  kept 
not  his  first  estate;  and,  at  that  day, 
many  followed  after  him. 

"And  then  the  Lord  said:  Let  us  go 
down,  And  they  went  down  at  the 
beginning,  and  they,  that  is  the  Gods, 
organized  and  formed  the  heavens  and 
the  earth."  (Abraham  3:22-28;  4:1.) 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  sup- 
plemented Abraham's  comment  with 
this  informative  sentence: 

"Every  man  who  has  a  calling  to 
minister  to  the  inhabitants  of  the  world 
was  ordained  to  that  purpose  in  the 
Great  Council  of  heaven  before  the 
world  was."  (Teachings  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  p.  365.) 

"Minister  to  the  Inhabitants  of 
the  World" 

These  comments  by  Abraham  and 
Joseph  Smith  give  unspeakable  joy  to 
my  soul,  and  they  firm  up  my  peace 
of  mind  no  end  because  they  give  as- 
surance that:  I,  along  with  you,  was 
judged  worthy  to  come  to  earth  in  the 
flesh.  We  were  reserved  to  come  in 
the  greatest  dispensation  of  them  all — 
the  "Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of 
Times." 

We  who  bear  the  priesthood  were 
ordained  in  the  Great  Council  of 
Heaven  "to  minister  to  the  inhabitants 
of  the  world."  Thus  the  gospel  has 
taught  me  about  great  blessings  which 
accrued  to  me  before  I  came  to  earth — 
pre-natal,  pre-mortal,  pre-earth  or  past- 
wise  as  I  have  already  called  it. 

So  past-wise,  present-wise,  future- 
wise  or  any-wise  or  way  I  look  at  it, 
the  gospel  is  very  dear  to  me.  It  truly 
is  a  program  for  happiness  and  peace 
of  mind.  It  is  the  Great  Physician's 
unfailing  prescription  for  troubled  souls. 
It's  precious.  I  love  it.  I  love  its 
author,  and  I  bear  my  solemn  witness 
that  he  is  the  Son  of  God,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 


33 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown:  We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Howard 

W.  Hunter  of  the  Council   of  the 
Elder  William  J.  Critchlow,  Assistant  Twelve, 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 

ELDER  HOWARD  W.  HUNTER 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  twenty-fourth  chapter  of  Second 
Samuel  is  an  interesting  story  which 
contains  a  great  lesson.  King  David 
had  caused  a  census  to  be  taken  of  all 
the  people  under  his  rule.  The  principle 
reason  for  taking  the  census  was  his 
pride  in  military  strength  and  power. 
Because  of  this  sin  of  pride,  the  Lord 
sent  a  pestilence  upon  Israel  and  70,000 
men  perished  from  Dan  to  Beersheba. 
The  Prophet  Gad  came  to  David  and 
said  to  him: 

"Go  up,  rear  an  altar  unto  the  Lord 
in  the  threshingfloor  of  Araunah  the 
Jebusite. 

"And  David,  according  to  the  saying 
of  Gad,  went  up  as  the  Lord  com- 
manded." (2  Sam.  24:18-19.) 

When  Araunah  saw  King  David  com- 
ing with  his  servants,  he  went  to  meet 
them  and  bowed  down  to  the  ground. 

"And  Araunah  said,  Wherefore  is  my 
lord  the  king  come  to  his  servant?  And 
David  said,  To  buy  the  threshingfloor 
of  thee,  to  build  an  altar  unto  the  Lord, 
that  the  plague  may  be  stayed  from  the 
people."  (Ibid.,  24:21.) 

In  a  great  display  of  generosity, 
Araunah  offered  to  give  the  threshing- 
floor  to  the  king  so  that  he  might  erect 
the  altar.  He  also  offered  him  oxen  for 
the  burnt  sacrifice,  the  threshing  instru- 
ments, and  the  yoke  of  the  oxen  for 
wood.  All  of  these  things  Araunah 
offered  to  give  to  the  king  without  any 
cost.  David  refused  the  gift  and  we 
read  his  classic  reply: 

"And  the  king  said  unto  Araunah, 
Nay;  but  I  will  surely  buy  it  of  thee  at 
a  price:  neither  will  I  offer  burnt  offer- 
ings unto  the  Lord  my  God  of  that 
which  doth  cost  me  nothing.  So  David 
bought  the  threshingfloor  and  the  oxen 
for  fifty  shekels  of  silver. 

"And  David  built  there  an  altar  unto 
the  Lord,  and  offered  burnt  offerings 
and  peace  offerings.  So  the  Lord  was 
intreated  for  the  land,  and  the  plague 


was  stayed  from  Israel."  (Ibid.,  24:25.) 

Gift  of  No  Value,  No  Gift 

David  would  not  make  an  offering 
unto  the  Lord  of  that  which  cost  him 
nothing.  He  no  doubt  reasoned  that 
unless  the  gift  cost  the  giver  something 
of  value,  it  was  not  fit  or  appropriate 
to  be  an  offering  for  the  Lord. 

Christ  said  it  is  more  blessed  to  give 
than  to  receive,  yet  there  are  some  who 
will  give  only  if  it  costs  them  nothing. 
This  is  not  according  to  the  teachings 
of  the  Master  who  said:  "If  any  man 
will  come  after  me,  let  him  deny  him- 
self, .  .  ."  (Matt.  16:24.) 

There  are  some  who  will  not  live  the 
law  of  tithing  because  of  the  cost.  This 
is  in  contrast  to  the  reasoning  of  David 
who  would  not  make  an  offering  unto 
the  Lord  unless  it  cost  him  something. 
The  great  moral  principles  encompassed 
in  the  law  of  tithing  are  overlooked  by 
those  who  are  not  tithepayers,  and  they 
lack  the  understanding  of  the  law  and 
the  reasons  for  it. 

"Tithe,"  for  Sacred  Uses 

The  word  "tithe"  is  derived  from  the 
Anglo-Saxon  meaning  "a  tenth."  It  may 
be  defined  as  a  tenth  of  property  or  in- 
come which  is  paid  over  or  dedicated 
for  sacred  uses  or  purposes.  The  his- 
tory of  the  word,  as  traced  through 
biblical  and  extra-biblical  history,  fo- 
cuses our  attention  upon  some  very 
interesting  information. 

The  "Tithe"  of  Abraham 

The  first  distinct  mention  of  the  word 
"tithe"  in  the  Bible  is  in  the  very  first 
book  of  the  Old  Testament.  Abram, 
returning  from  the  slaughter  of  the 
four  kings,  was  met  by  Melchizedek, 
king  of  Salem  and  priest  of  the  Most 
High  God.  Melchizedek  blessed  him, 
and  Abram  "gave  him  tithes  of  all." 
(Gen.  14:20.) 


34 

Saturday,  April  4 

Of  Jacob 

A  few  chapters  later  in  the  same  book, 
Jacob,  at  Bethel  made  a  vow  in  these 
words: 

"If  God  will  be  with  me,  and  will 
keep  me  in  this  way  that  I  go,  and 
will  give  me  bread  to  eat,  and  raiment 
to  put  on, 

"So  that  I  come  again  to  my  father's 
house  in  peace;  then  shall  the  Lord  be 
my  God: 

"And  this  stone,  which  I  have  set  for 
a  pillar,  shall  be  God's  house:  and  of  all 
that  thou  shalt  give  me  I  will  surely 
give  the  tenth  unto  thee."  (Ibid., 
28:20-22.) 

The  third  mention  is  in  connection 
with  the  Levitical  law.  The  Lord  spoke 
through  Moses: 

"And  all  the  tithe  of  the  land, 
whether  of  the  seed  of  the  land,  or  of 
the  fruit  of  the  tree,  is  the  Lord's:  it  is 
holy  unto  the  Lord."  (Lev.  27:30.) 

Of  the  Levites 

Under  this  Levitical  law  the  tithes 
were  given  to  the  Levites  for  their 
maintenance,  and  they  in  turn  were 
charged  with  the  paying  of  tithes  on 
that  which  they  received  as  shown  by 
the  words  of  the  Lord  as  he  instructed 
Moses: 

"Thus  speak  unto  the  Levites,  and 
say  unto  them,  When  ye  take  of  the 
children  of  Israel  the  tithes  which  I 
have  given  you  from  them  for  your 
inheritance,  then  ye  shall  offer  up  an 
heave  offering  of  it  for  the  Lord,  even  a 
tenth  part  of  the  tithe."  (Num.  18:26.) 

This  clearly  indicates  that  the  law  of 
tithing  was  a  part  of  the  Levitical  law 
and  paid  by  all  people — even  the 
Levites  themselves  who  were  directed 
to  pay  tithing  on  the  tithes  which  were 
received  by  them. 

A  Universal  Law 

There  are  some  who  take  the  posi- 
tion that  the  law  of  the  tithe  was  only 
a  Levitical  institution,  but  history  con- 
firms the  fact  that  it  has  been  and  is  a 
universal  law.  It  was  basic  in  the 
Mosaic  law.  It  had  existed  from  the 
beginning  and  is  found  in  the  ancient 
Egyptian  law,  in  Babylonia,  and  can  be 
traced  throughout  biblical  history.  It 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

was  mentioned  by  the  Prophet  Amos 
and  by  Nehemiah  who  was  charged 
with  the  rebuilding  of  the  walls  of 
Jerusalem.  Shortly  thereafter  Malachi 
began  an  even  greater  task  of  rebuilding 
the  faith  and  the  morale  of  a  nation. 
In  his  supreme  effort  to  strike  out 
against  the  covetousness  of  those  who 
were  religious  only  in  name,  he  lashed 
them  with  the  accusation  of  a  crime 
against  God. 

"Will  a  man  rob  God?  Yet  ye  have 
robbed  me.  But  ye  say,  Wherein  have 
we  robbed  thee?  In  tithes  and  offerings. 

"Ye  are  cursed  with  a  curse:  for  ye 
have  robbed  me,  even  this  whole  nation. 

"Bring  ye  all  the  tithes  into  the  store- 
house, that  there  may  be  meat  in  mine 
house,  and  prove  me  now  herewith, 
saith  the  Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not 
open  you  the  windows  of  heaven  and 
pour  you  out  a  blessing,  that  there 
shall  not  be  room  enough  to  receive  it." 
(Mai.  3:8-10.) 

Malachi's  Charge 

The  words  of  Malachi  in  which  he 
accused  the  people  of  robbing  God  bring 
back  to  my  mind  the  memories  of  my 
class  in  crimes  in  law  school.  Larceny 
is  the  unlawful  taking  and  carrying 
away  of  things  personal  with  intent  to 
deprive  the  owner  of  the  same.  Em- 
bezzlement is  defined  as  the  fraudulent 
appropriation  of  another's  personal 
property  by  one  to  whom  it  has  been 
entrusted.  The  distinction  between 
larceny  and  embezzlement  lies  in  the 
character  of  acquiring  the  possession  of 
the  property  or  money.  In  larceny 
there  is  an  unlawful  acquisition  of  the 
property,  while  in  embezzlement  the 
property  which  belongs  to  another  is 
acquired  lawfully  and  then  fraudulently 
converted  to  the  possessor's  use. 

In  order  to  memorize  these  distinc- 
tions, I  pictured  in  my  mind,  to  repre- 
sent larceny,  a  masked  burglar,  sneaking 
about  under  the  cover  of  darkness,  tak- 
ing that  which  was  not  his.  To 
represent  the  theory  of  embezzlement 
I  thought  of  a  nontithepayer.  The 
Lord's  share  came  into  his  hands  law- 
fully, but  he  misappropriated  it  to  his 
own  use.  This  seems  to  be  the  accusa- 
tion of  Malachi. 


ELDER  HOW  A 

Universal  Law  Reiterated 

The  words  of  Malachi  close  the  Old 
Testament  with  a  reiteration  of  the  law 
of  tithing,  indicating  there  had  been  no 
abrogation  of  this  law  which  had  existed 
from  the  beginning.  The  New  Testa- 
ment dispensation,  therefore,  com- 
menced under  this  admonition  which 
continued  in  effect  unless  denounced 
by  the  Savior.  He  said  in  his  Sermon 
on  the  Mount:  "Think  not  that  I  am 
come  to  destroy  the  law,  or  the 
prophets:  I  am  not  come  to  destroy,  but 
to  fulfil. 

"For  verily  I  say  unto  you,  Till 
heaven  and  earth  pass,  one  jot  or  one 
tittle  shall  in  no  wise  pass  from  the 
law,  till  all  be  fulfilled."  (Matt.  5:17-18.) 

There  are  some  who  make  the  asser- 
tion that  Jesus  denounced  tithing  in  his 
last  public  discourse  in  the  temple  court 
when  he  struck  out  against  the  prac- 
tices and  teachings  of  the  Pharisees. 
He  said: 

"Woe  unto  you,  scribes  and  Phari- 
sees, hypocrites!  for  ye  pay  tithe  of  mint 
and  anise  and  cummin,  and  have 
omitted  the  weightier  matters  of  the 
law,  judgment,  mercy,  and  faith:  these 
ought  ye  to  have  done,  and  not  to  leave 
the  other  undone."  (Ibid.,  23:23.) 

This  is  not  a  denunciation  of  tithing, 
but  a  rebuke  of  the  Pharisees  and  their 
legalisms.  They  were  paying  a  tithing 
of  their  herbs  and  vegetables,  while 
overlooking  the  great  gospel  principles 
of  judgment,  mercy,  and  faith. 

The  Law  for  the  Latter-day  Saints 

Not  long  after  the  gospel  was  restored 
in  this  dispensation,  the  Lord  gave  a 
revelation  to  his  people  through  a  latter- 
day  prophet  defining  the  law  and  re- 
quiring that  surplus  property  be  put 
into  the  hands  of  the  bishop: 

"And  after  that,  those  who  have  thus 
been  tithed  shall  pay  one  tenth  of  all 
their  interest  annually;  and  this  shall 
be  a  standing  law  unto  them  forever, 
for  my  holy  priesthood,  saith  the  Lord." 
(D&C  119:4.) 

The  law  is  simply  stated  as  "one- 
tenth  of  all  their  interest."  Interest 
means  profit,  compensation,  increase.  It 
is  the  wage  of  one  employed,  the  profit 
from  the  operation  of  a  business,  the 
increase  of  one  who  grows  or  produces, 


3  W.  HUNTER  35 

or  the  income  to  a  person  from  any 
other  source.  The  Lord  said  it  is  a 
standing  law  "forever"  as  it  has  been 
in  the  past. 

Obedience  Voluntary 

The  tithe  is  God's  law  for  his  chil- 
dren, yet  the  payment  is  entirely  volun- 
tary. In  this  respect  it  does  not  differ 
from  the  law  of  the  Sabbath  or  from 
any  other  of  his  laws.  We  may  refuse 
to  obey  any  or  all  of  them.  Our  obedi- 
ence is  voluntary,  but  our  refusal  to 
pay  does  not  abrogate  or  repeal  the  law. 

If  tithing  is  a  voluntary  matter,  is  it 
a  gift  or  a  payment  of  an  obligation? 
There  is  a  substantial  difference  be- 
tween the  two.  A  gift  is  a  voluntary 
transfer  of  money  or  property  without 
consideration.  It  is  gratuitous.  No  one 
owes  the  obligation  to  make  a  gift.  If 
tithing  is  a  gift,  we  could  give  what- 
ever we  please,  when  we  please,  or 
make  no  gift  at  all.  It  would  place  our 
Heavenly  Father  in  the  very  same 
category  as  the  street  beggar  to  whom 
we  might  toss  a  coin  in  passing. 

Tithing  and  Debt 

The  Lord  has  established  the  law  of 
tithing,  and  because  it  is  his  law,  it 
becomes  our  obligation  to  observe  it  if 
we  love  him  and  have  a  desire  to  keep 
his  commandments  and  receive  his 
blessings.  In  this  way  it  becomes  a 
debt.  The  man  who  doesn't  pay  his 
tithing  because  he  is  in  debt  should 
ask  himself  if  he  is  not  also  in  debt  to 
the  Lord.  The  Master  said:  "But  seek 
ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his 
righteousness:  and  all  these  things  shall 
be  added  unto  you."  (Matt.  6:33.) 

We  can't  walk  east  and  west  at  the 
same  time.  We  can't  serve  both  God 
and  mammon.  The  man  who  rejects 
the  law  of  the  tithe  is  the  man  who  has 
not  given  it  a  fair  try.  Of  course  it  costs 
something.  It  takes  work  and  thought 
and  effort  to  live  any  of  the  laws  of 
the  gospel  or  any  of  its  principles. 

The  Gift  of  Value 

Are  we  willing  to  keep  God's  com- 
mandments even  though  it  costs  us 
something?  King  David  refused  the 
gift  of  the  threshingfloor  and  the  oxen 
for  the  burnt  offering  because  it  cost 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

him  nothing.  He  wanted  to  be  in  the 
position  of  having  made  the  gift,  the 
sacrifice,  himself.  Even  tithing  is  not 
sufficient  if  it  costs  nothing  for  the 
giver. 

It  may  be  that  we  make  a  gift  and 
also  pay  an  obligation  with  our  tithes. 
The  payment  of  the  obligation  is  to 
the  Lord.  The  gift  is  to  our  fellow  men 
for  the  upbuilding  of  God's  kingdom. 
If  one  thoughtfully  observes  the  prose- 
lyting done  by  the  missionaries,  the 
teaching  program  of  the  Church,  the 
great  educational  system,  and  the  build- 
ing program  to  erect  houses  of  worship, 
there  will  come  a  realization  that  it  is 
not  a  burden  to  pay  tithing,  but  a  great 
privilege.  The  blessings  of  the  gospel 
are  shared  with  many  through  our  tithes. 

The  Gift,  With  Love 

The  principle  of  tithing  should  be 
more  than  a  mathematical,  mechanical 
compliance  with  the  law.  The  Lord 
condemned  the  Pharisees  for  mechani- 
cally tithing  herbs  without  coming  into 
the  circumference  of  spirituality.  If  we 
pay  our  tithes  because  of  our  love  for 
the  Lord,  in  complete  freedom  and 
faith,  we  narrow  our  distance  from  him 
and  our  relationship  to  him  becomes 
intimate.  We  are  released  from  the 
bondage  of  legalism,  and  we  are  touched 
by  the  spirit  and  feel  a  oneness 
with  God. 


First  Day 


The  Gift,  With  Faith 

The  payment  of  tithing  strengthens 
faith,  increases  spirituality  and  spiritual 
capacity,  and  solidifies  testimony.  It 
gives  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  one  is 
complying  with  the  will  of  the  Lord. 
It  brings  the  blessings  that  come  from 
sharing  with  others  through  the  pur- 
poses for  which  tithing  is  used.  We 
cannot  afford  to  deny  ourselves  these 
blessings.  We  cannot  afford  not  to  pay 
our  tithing.  We  have  a  definite  rela- 
tionship to  the  future  as  well  as  to  the 
present.  What  we  give,  and  how  we 
give,  and  the  way  we  meet  our  obliga- 
tions to  the  Lord  has  eternal  significance. 

Giving,  Receiving  a  Testimony 

A  testimony  of  the  law  of  tithing 
comes  from  living  it.  Like  all  other  of 
God's  laws,  when  we  live  them  we  re- 
ceive the  blessings.  I  know  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  that  bless- 
ings do  come  to  us  by  living  the  law 
of  the  tithe.  In  the  name  of  the 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder  How- 
ard W.  Hunter  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve.  Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley, 
also  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  associates  in  the  work  of 
the  Lord:  I  seek  the  inspiration  of  the 
Spirit.  My  heart  has  been  warmed, 
and  my  testimony  has  been  strength- 
ened by  the  things  to  which  we 
have  listened. 

I  would  be  remiss  in  my  duty  if 
before  I  get  into  my  text  I  do  not  say 
a  word  in  behalf  of  my  faithful  asso- 
ciates in  the  distant  missions  of  the 
Far  East.  I  was  delighted  with  the 
reports  of  President  Tuttle  and  of  Elder 
Petersen  concerning  the  work  in  South 
America,  the  Isles  of  Britain,  and  the 
lands  of  Europe. 


The  Gospel  to  Ancient  Asia 

I  should  like  to  add  that  a  great 
work  is  going  on  among  the  people 
of  the  ancient  lands  of  Asia.  I  have 
an  appointment  in  the  next  few  days 
in  Hong  Kong,  where  we  shall  meet 
in  a  conference  of  the  Chinese  Saints. 
There  will  be  approximately  a  thousand 
of  them  gather  in  that  city,  and  as  I 
look  into  their  faces,  there  will  come 
into  my  mind  renewed  faith  and  in- 
creased testimony  in  the  power  of  God 
to  touch  men's  hearts  everywhere. 

My  heart  skipped  a  beat  this  morning 
when  I  looked  into  this  group  and  saw 
a  man  from  Korea,  one  of  my  beloved 
brethren.     The  Lord  is   pouring  out 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


37 


his  Spirit  upon  that  part  of  the  world, 
and  I  thank  him  for  that  manifestation. 
Now  to  my  text. 

Faith  in  Revelation 

I  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
all  that  he  does  now  reveal,  and  I 
believe  that  he  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  kingdom  of  God.  (See  ninth 
Article  of  Faith.) 

This  paraphrase  of  a  statement  from 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  is  the  creed 
and  the  guide  of  my  life.  It  is  the 
foundation  of  the  faith  of  all  mem- 
bers of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints. 

The  "Fount"  of  Inspiration 

God  is  the  one  sure  source  of  truth. 
He  is  the  fount  of  all  inspiration.  It 
is  from  him  that  the  world  must  re- 
ceive direction  if  peace  is  to  come  to 
the  earth  and  if  goodwill  is  to  pre- 
vail among  men.  This  earth  is  his 
creation.  We  are  his  children.  Out 
of  the  love  he  bears  for  us,  he  will 
guide  us  if  we  will  seek,  listen,  and 
obey.  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do 
nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secrets 
unto  his  servants  the  prophets." 
(Amos  3:7.) 

Our  world  is  changing.  We  live  in 
an  age  of  great  material  progress.  Can 
religion  remain  static  when  all  else 
is  moving  forward? 

It  is  true  that  man's  essential  nature 
does  not  change,  and  that  principles 
laid  down  centuries  ago  by  the  prophets 
are  as  applicable  today  as  they  were 
when  they  were  first  enunciated;  but 
the  world  evidently  knows  not  how 
to  apply  them.  Today  that  applica- 
tion needs  the  direction  of  the  Al- 
mighty as  certainly  as  when  Jehovah 
spoke  to  Enoch  and  Moses  and  Isaiah 
and  Elijah. 

"For  the  prophecy  came  not  in  old 
time  by  the  will  of  man:  but  holy 
men  of  God  spake  as  they  were  moved 
by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (2  Pet.  1:21.) 
And  prophecy,  which  is  revelation, 
comes  not  now,  nor  will  it  come  in  the 
future,  by  the  will  of  man,  but  only 
as  men  of  God  speak  as  they  are  moved 
upon  by  that  same  spirit. 

How  poverty-ridden  is  our  world  in 
the  wisdom  of  living  one  with  an- 


other. The  stresses,  the  strains,  the 
tensions  in  human  relationships,  the 
wars  and  rumors  of  wars  that  con- 
stantly afflict  us  all  become  evidence 
that  ".  .  .  the  wisdom  of  the  wise  has 
failed  and  the  understanding  of  the 
prudent  is  hid."  (See  Isa.  29:14.) 
Religion,  to  be  effective,  must  be  a  vital 
and  timely  force  in  the  lives  of  men. 

The  people  today  need  a  prophet 
as  surely  as  Israel  needed  a  prophet 
when  it  groaned  in  the  toils  of  Egypt, 
and  Moses  was  called  to  lead  it 
from  bondage. 

Channels  of  Communication  Open 

Israel  today  has  a  prophet,  and  we 
give  our  witness  to  the  world  that 
the  channel  of  communication  is  open 
between  God  and  his  appointed  servant. 

We  would  not  take  from  men  of 
goodwill  anywhere  the  standards  of 
truth  by  which  they  live.  But  we  say 
to  all,  "Come,  feast  upon  that  which 
the  Lord  has  offered  in  our  day.  To 
that  which  you  have  and  cherish,  we 
invite  you  to  add  that  which  your 
Father  has  further  offered,  for  there 
is  a  prophet  in  the  land  today  as  cer- 
tainly as  there  was  in  ancient  Israel." 

There  are  those  who  have  declared 
that  the  canon  of  scripture  is  full,  that 
revelation  ceased  with  the  ancient 
Apostles,  that  the  heavens  are  sealed. 
Well  might  we  ask  such,  "Why,  then, 
do  you  pray?  If  God  is  unwilling  to 
speak,  is  unwilling  to  guide,  if  there 
can  be  no  revelation,  why  seek  him?" 
The  fallacy  of  this  position  is  evident; 
yet  the  world  would  deny  the  possi- 
bility of  modern  revelation. 

Opening  of  Mission  in  the  Philippines 

Three  years  ago  I  had  the  opportunity 
of  participating  in  the  opening  of  our 
mission  in  the  Philippines.  It  was  an 
inspirational  experience.  We  gathered 
at  dawn  in  the  American  military 
cemetery  on  the  outskirts  of  the  city 
of  Manila.  There  before  us  stood 
"row  on  row"  the  crosses  that  mark 
the  graves  of  more  than  17,000  American 
dead,  and  inscribed  on  marble  tablets 
we  saw  the  names  of  some  36,000  more 
who  died  in  the  battles  of  the  Pacific 
and  whose  remains  were  never  found — 
a  grim  and  solemn  reminder  of  man's 
foolish  inhumanity  to  man. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


38 

Saturday,  April  4 

Among  those  who  spoke  on  that 
sacred  occasion  was  a  young  Filipino. 
He  recounted  the  story  of  how,  when 
he  was  a  child,  he  had  found  an  old 
magazine  in  a  pile  of  trash.  It  con- 
tained an  article  on  the  history  of  our 
people.  It  spoke  of  Joseph  Smith.  It 
described  him  as  a  prophet.  That  word 
"prophet"  caught  in  his  consciousness. 
It  impressed  him.  It  raised  questions  in 
his  young  mind.  "Could  there  really 
be  a  prophet  in  the  earth  in  this  time 
of  the  world?"  he  asked  himself. 

A  Filipino  Seeks  a  Prophet 

Years  passed.  There  came  to  his  land 
the  terrible  tragedies  of  Corregidor  and 
Bataan  and  the  death  march  to  Tarlac; 
the  strafing  and  bombing  of  Clark 
Field  near  his  home;  the  hunger  and 
fear  and  oppression  of  the  enemy  occu- 
pation; and  then,  finally,  the  liberation 
of  the  Philippines  and  the  re-establish- 
ment of  Clark  Field  as  an  American  air 
base.  He  secured  employment  there. 
One  day  he  heard  that  one  of  the 
American  officers  for  whom  he  worked 
was  a  Mormon.  There  flashed  again 
into  his  mind  the  word  "prophet."  He 
found  courage  to  ask  the  man  if  a 
prophet  really  stood  at  the  head  of 
his  Church.  Without  equivocation  the 
officer  replied  yes,  and  there  followed 
an  explanation,  a  recounting  of  the 
simple  and  beautiful  story  of  the  ap- 
pearance of  God  the  Eternal  Father, 
and  his  Son,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  to 
a  boy  who  had  come  in  faith  and 
prayer  to  find  wisdom.  That  testimony 
touched  this  young  Filipino's  heart.  His 
life  has  been  changed  by  the  convic- 
tion that  revelation  from  God  is  avail- 
able to  man  in  our  time.  Today  he 
holds  the  priesthood  and  walks  in  the 
dignity  of  that  priesthood,  a  leader  of 
the  Church  in  his  own  land. 

Can  one  doubt  the  need  for  revela- 
tion in  this  day  of  complex  human 
problems?  Some  weeks  ago  news  was 
broadcast  over  the  country  that  at  a  par- 
ticular hour  on  a  particular  day  the 
surgeon  general  of  the  United  States 
would  issue  a  report  on  the  effects  of 
smoking.  The  release  time  was  carefully 
planned,  presumably  to  affect  the  stock 
market  least  seriously.  Then,  as  President 
McKay  indicated  this  morning,  at  the 
appointed  hour  radio,  television,  and 


First  Day 

the  news  services  dramatically  an- 
nounced the  finding  of  causal  relation- 
ships between  the  smoking  of  cigarets 
and  lung  cancer.  Lengthy  tables  of 
statistics,  page  upon  page  of  data,  were 
enumerated  to  produce  the  conclusion 
that  cigaret  smoking  is  harmful  to 
health. 

"Tobacco  Is  Not  Good  for  Man" 

I  thumbed  through  that  387-page  re- 
port, and  then  I  turned  to  the  revelation 
of  the  Lord  given  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  wherein  he  said  simply 
but  unequivocally,  ".  .  .  tobacco  .  .  . 
is  not  good  for  man."  (D&C  89:8.) 

I  am  grateful  for  the  work  of  those 
scientists  who  made  the  report  on 
smoking.  I  am  confident  that  their 
discoveries  will  save  untold  suffering 
and  add  untold  years  of  useful  living 
to  those  who  will  heed  their  counsel. 
But  how  much  suffering,  how  many 
deaths  upon  which  their  conclusions 
were  based,  might  have  been  avoided 
had  those  who  became  statistics  for  a 
government  report  listened  to  the  word 
of  revelation  given  by  a  prophet  of  God. 

As  I  reflected  on  that  situation — the 
months  of  research  by  able  men  of  sci- 
ence, the  vast  calculations  of  electronic 
computers,  the  great  fanfare  of  an- 
nouncements, the  background  stories, 
the  editorials,  the  debates,  all  of  this 
and  more,  in  contrast  with  the  simple, 
revealed  word  of  the  Lord — there  came 
to  mind  the  experience  of  Elijah  on 
Mt.  Horeb,  as  sung  so  beautifully  by 
this  chorus  at  the  opening  of  this  meet- 
ing: ".  .  .  and  a  great  and  strong  wind 
rent  the  mountains,  and  brake  in  pieces 
the  rocks  before  the  Lord;  but  the  Lord 
was  not  in  the  wind:  and  after  the 
wind  an  earthquake;  but  the  Lord  was 
not  in  the  earthquake: 

"And  after  the  earthquake  a  fire;  but 
the  Lord  was  not  in  the  fire:  and  after 
the  fire  a  still  small  voice."  (1  Kings 
19:11-12.) 

Such  almost  invariably  has  been  the 
word  of  God  as  it  has  come  to  us,  not 
with  trumpets,  not  from  the  council 
halls  of  the  learned,  but  in  the  still 
small  voice  of  revelation.  Listening 
to  those  who  seek  in  vain  to  find  wis- 
dom and  who  declaim  loudly  their 
nostrums  for  the  ills  of  the  world,  one 
is  prone  to  reply  with  the  Psalmist, 


ELDER  GORDON  B.  HINCKLEY 


39 


"Be  still,  and  know  that  I  am  God:  .  .  ." 
(Ps.  46:10)  and  with  the  Savior,  "He 
that  hath  ears  to  hear,  let  him  hear." 
(Matt.  11:15.) 

Wisdom  by  Revelation 

I  wish  to  make  it  clear  that  I  do 
not  disparage  education,  research,  study, 
counsel.  I  believe  most  strongly  in 
these.  But  I  believe  more  so  that  this 
troubled  world  would  do  well  to  listen 
to  the  source  of  all  true  wisdom,  to  ac- 
cept all  that  God  has  revealed,  all  that 
he  does  now  reveal,  and  to  believe  that 
he  will  yet  reveal  many  great  and  im- 
portant things. 

Let  it  be  remembered  that  "the  things 
of  God  are  understood  by  the  Spirit  of 
God,"  and  that  revelation  is  fruitless 
unless  it  be  listened  to  and  obeyed. 

We  have  a  simple  and  marvelous 
hymn  among  us.  It  came  from  the  pen 
of  an  English  convert,  an  orphan  boy, 
a  man  of  Sheffield,  a  cutler  in  the  steel 
mills,  who  more  than  a  century  ago 
wrote  out  of  the  testimony  of  his  soul 
this  great  song  of  gratitude,  "We  thank 
thee,  O  God,  for  a  Prophet  to  guide 
us  in  these  latter  days." 

Revelation  for  the  Atomic  Age 

To  the  world  we  give  our  witness  that 
there  is  revelation  of  the  word  of  God 
as  certainly  in  the  atomic  age  as  there 
was  in  the  age  of  Jeremiah.  It  is  just 
that  simple  and  just  that  true. 

Joseph  Smith  was  the  anointed  of 
the  Lord  to  this  dispensation.  Well 
might  we  repeat  the  words  of  the 
Lord:  ".  .  .  What  power  shall  stay  the 
heavens?  As  well  might  man  stretch 
forth  his  puny  arm  to  stop  the  Missouri 
river  in  its  decreed  course,  or  to  turn  it 
up  stream,  as  to  hinder  the  Almighty 
from  pouring  down  knowledge  from 
heaven  upon  the  heads  of  the  Latter- 
day  Saints."  (D&C  121:33.)  Knowledge 
has  been  and  is  being  revealed.  Those 
who  accept  it  and  obey  it  find  that  peace 
which  passeth  understanding  and  that 
growth  which  leads  to  eternal  life. 

As  surely  as  Joseph  was  a  Prophet, 
so  also  is  his  successor  in  office,  Presi- 
dent David  O.  McKay,  who  has  stood 
before  us  this  day.  Who,  seeing  this 
man  of  God  this  morning  standing  at 
this  pulpit  and  speaking  to  the  world 
words  that  would  save  them,  could 


doubt  that  God  is  manifesting  his  will 
through  him? 

God  help  us  to  be  obedient  to  his 
counsel. 

Of  these  truths  we  testify  and  invite 
men  of  goodwill  everywhere  to  listen 
and  learn  and  partake  of  that  peace 
and  that  growth  which  our  Father 
would  have  us  enjoy,  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Gordon  B.  Hinckley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking. 

We  have  received  many  telegrams 
from  many  parts  of  the  world.  They 
are  all  fully  appreciated,  but  too  numer- 
ous to  read.  However,  the  President 
has  asked  me  to  read  the  following 
from  President  and  Sister  Quealy,  mis- 
sionaries, and  members  of  the  Southern 
Far  East  Mission: 

"The  First  Presidency:  We  send  our 
love  and  greetings  to  all  assembled.  Our 
thoughts  and  prayers  are  with  you  in 
your  great  conference.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you,  President  McKay,  with  health 
and  strength."  And  they  have  added  to 
it  a  list  of  names  who  join  them. 

As  stated,  there  is  a  large  number  of 
these  telegrams  and  we  would  like  those 
who  have  sent  them  to  know  that  they 
are  greatly  appreciated. 

After  some  further  announcements  the 
Selected  Youth  Choir  will  sing,  "God 
of  Our  Fathers,"  conducted  by  Jay 
Welch,  and  the  benediction  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  M.  Vernon  Coombs, 
formerly  president  of  the  Tongan  Mis- 
sion, after  which  this  Conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  seven  o'clock  this  eve- 
ning when  the  general  meeting  of  the 
Priesthood  of  the  Church  will  be  held 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  Priesthood 
members  only  are  invited  to  be  present. 
This  priesthood  session  will  not  be 
broadcast  publicly. 

In  addition  to  the  overflow  meeting 
in  the  Assembly  Hall,  the  proceedings 
of  the  Priesthood  Meeting  will  be  re- 
layed by  closed  circuit  broadcast  originat- 
ing in  the  Tabernacle,  to  members  of 
the  Aaronic  and  Melchizedek  Priesthood 
assembled  in  410  separate  locations  in 
all  parts  of  the  United  States  and  Can- 


40 

Saturday,  April  4 

ada.  It  is  estimated  that  approximately 
12,000  holders  of  the  priesthood  will  be 
on  Temple  Square  and  that  more  than 
58,000  others  will  gather  in  other  loca- 
tions from  coast  to  coast. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  will  be 
broadcast  by  many  radio  and  television 
stations  in  the  West,  and  short-wave 
in  English  over  Station  WRUL,  beamed 
by  five  transmitters  near  Boston  to 
Europe,  South  America,  Central  Amer- 
ica Africa,  and  parts  of  Asia.  For  the 
first  time  the  General  Conference  will 
be  televised  by  Canadian  stations  from 
the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle.  The  cooperat- 
ing Canadian  stations  will  be  serviced 
by  CTV  network,  which  will  take  the 
Sunday  morning  session  and  transmit  it 
across  Canada,  and  we  express  apprecia- 
tion to  our  Canadian  broadcasting 
friends  for  their  cooperation. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  Tabernacle 
Choir  Broadcast,  tomorrow  morning, 
will  be  from  9:35  to  10:00  a.m.  Those 
desiring  to  attend  this  broadcast  must 
be  in  their  seats  not  later  than  9:15. 

There  will  be  large  crowds  attending 
the  services  on  Sunday  and  we  ask  you 
to  please  be  courteous  and  gracious  to 
each  other  at  all  times. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

The  singing  for  this  session  has  been 
furnished  by  a  Selected  Youth  Group 
from  Salt  Lake  and  Davis  Counties, 
with  Jay  E.  Welch  conducting  and  Roy 
M.  Darley  at  the  organ.  We  are  sure 
this  great  audience  and  our  unseen 
audience  would  wish  us  to  express  to 
these  young  people  our  heartfelt  appre- 
ciation for  the  excellent  singing  this 
afternoon.  Their  singing  and  presence 
has  thrilled  us. 

We  also  express  appreciation  to  mem- 
bers of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  to  Rich- 
ard P.  Condie,  conductor,  and  Alexander 
Schreiner,  organist,  for  the  glorious 
music  rendered  by  them  for  the  broad- 
cast session  this  morning. 

The  Youth  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"God  of  Our  Father,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  Elder  Vernon 
Coombs. 


The  Youth  Choir  sang  the  hymn, 
"God  Of  Our  Fathers." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  M.  Vernon  Coombs,  formerly 
President  of  the  Tongan  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIES' 

The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  4,  1964, 
with  President  David  O.  McKay  presid- 
ing and  conducting. 

The  choral  music  for  this  meeting 
was  furnished  by  the  men  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  Richard  P.  Condie,  Con- 
ductor; Alexander  Schreiner,  Organist. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
will  furnish  the  music  tonight.  It 
promises  a  great  treat  for  all  of  us,  with 
Brother  Condie  conducting  and  Brother 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  chorus  will  sing,  "Sweet  Is  the 
Work,  My  God,  My  King."  Brother 
Wayne  A.  Reeves  will  offer  the  opening 


TOOD  MEETING 

prayer.  He  is  president  of  the  San 
Bernardino  Stake. 

The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
sang  the  hymn,  "Sweet  Is  The  Work, 
My  God,  My  King." 

Elder  Wayne  A.  Reeves,  President  of 
the  San  Bernardino  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Wayne  A.  Reeves,  president  of 
the  San  Bernardino  Stake. 

The  chorus  will  now  sing  "Seek  Thy 
God." 


Singing  by  the  Men  of  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  "Seek  Thy  God." 

That  was  glorious.  (Referring  to  num- 
ber by  the  Chorus) 


BROTHER  RONALD  G.  PLUMB 


41 


There  are  approximately  50,000  men 
and  boys  assembled  in  priesthood  meet- 
ing tonight — 50,000  men  imbued  with 
the  spirit  of  this  Church,  manifesting  by 
their  presence  the  theme  of  this  great 
Priesthood  Meeting — "Advancement  in 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood  Means  Greater 
Moral  Responsibility."  Perhaps  never 
before  in  the  history  of  the  Church 
have  so  many  men  and  boys  in  united 
faith  and  cleanliness  in  mind,  been  so 
willing  to  show  by  actions,  as  well  as 
by  pretense  that  they  wish  to  prepare 
their  lives  for  a  far  more  and  greater 
service  to  our  God,  that  they  may  better 
represent  the  Lord  and  Savior  Jesus 
Christ  who  is  the  head  of  this  great 
priesthood  movement. 

Young  men  who  accept  Him  as  their 
ideal  will  unite  with  those  who  will 
present  the  theme  of  this  Priesthood 
Meeting.  I  do  not  suppose  that  there 
ever  has  been,  since  a  few  people  met 
and  organized  the  Church,  such  a  united 
effort  on  the  part  of  the  male  members 


of  the  Church  to  maintain  high  stand- 
ards that  the  Lord  himself  has  given 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  and  Oliver 
Cowdery  as  a  guide  to  the  priesthood  of 
his  Church. 

Two  young  men  have  been  chosen  to 
represent  the  Lesser  Priesthood  under 
the  direction  of  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
of  the  Church.  Brother  Ronald  G. 
Plumb,  a  teacher  in  the  Studio  City 
Ward,  Burbank  Stake,  will  speak  to  the 
theme  which  I  shall  read  again,  "Ad- 
vancement in  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
Means  Greater  Moral  Responsibility." 
He  will  be  followed  by  Brother  Douglas 
Cowie,  a  priest  from  Idaho  Falls  28th 
Ward,  South  Idaho  Falls  Stake.  After 
these  two  speakers  Bishop  John  H. 
Vandenberg  will  speak  to  the  same 
theme  applying  it  to  all  the  priesthood 
of  the  Church. 

Brother  Ronald  G.  Plumb,  a  teacher, 
will  now  address  us.  May  the  Lord 
bless  you,  Brother  Plumb. 


BROTHER  RONALD  G.  PLUMB 

(A  Teacher,  Studio  City  Ward,  Burbank  Stake) 


The  greatest  opportunity  that  the  Lord 
can  bless  a  twelve  year  old  boy  with  is 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  Herein  the 
Lord  gives  us  certain  responsibilities 
and  as  he  advances  his  responsibilities 
are  increased. 

Advancement  in  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood means  more  to  me  than  going 
from  a  Deacon  to  a  Teacher  or  Teacher 
to  a  Priest.  I  am  sure  that  the  Lord 
intended  that  the  duties  given  to  us 
with  the  priesthood  be  a  means  to 
prepare  for  greater  responsibility.  Each 
assignment  we  receive  and  each  duty 
we  perform  will  develop  our  ability  to 
do  our  part  in  this  plan  that  the  Lord 
has  created  for  his  children  here  on 
earth. 

As  a  Deacon  we  are  assigned  to  pass 
the  Sacrament,  collect  fast  offerings, 
and  take  care  of  the  chapel  and 
grounds.  We  can  learn  to  pass  the 
Sacrament,  collect  fast  offerings,  and 
hoe  the  weeds  out  of  the  church  lot, 
and  we  could  complain  about  any  one 
or  all  of  these  assignments.  But  the 
Lord  intended  that  we  learn  more  from 


passing  the  Sacrament  than  knowing 
which  rows  to  go  to  or  how  to  handle 
the  trays.  He  intended,  I  am  sure,  that 
we  receive  a  thrill  inside  when  we  pass 
the  Sacrament  and  assist  the  people  in 
our  ward  to  renew  their  covenant  with 
him.  He  intended  that  we  feel  that  we 
become  his  disciples  in  this  small  way. 

When  we  go  to  collect  fast  offerings 
we  learn  that  we  are  not  merely  out 
passing  envelopes  and  asking  for  dona- 
tions, for  we  are  assisting  the  bishop  in 
the  Welfare  Program  which  takes  care 
of  the  needy. 

A  young  deacon  was  given  his  fast 
offering  assignment  section  which  in- 
cluded some  new  families.  After  this 
meeting  one  of  the  other  deacons  said, 
"Hey,  Bob,  I'm  sure  glad  you  got  old 
Brother  Jones.  With  his  attitude  about 
donations  I  sure  hated  to  go  up  and 
knock  on  his  door." 

Just  then  Bob's  father  walked  up  and 
Bob  said,  "Dad,  will  you  take  me  over 
to  the  other  side  of  the  ward  to  collect 
my  fast  offering?"  Bob's  father  was  like 
all  the  other  good  fathers  of  the  Church, 


42 

Saturday,  April  4 

and  he  said,  "Sure,  Bob,  I'll  take  you  as 
long  as  we  are  back  in  time  for  dinner." 

On  the  way  over  to  his  district  Bob 
asked  his  father  about  Brother  Jones. 
His  father  said  to  him,  "Well,  Son, 
some  people  are  so  tight  that  they  won't 
wear  rubber  heels  because  they  give. 
But  you  needn't  be  afraid  of  Brother 
Jones.  You  are  doing  what  the  Lord 
wants  you  to  do.  When  the  bishop 
asked  you  to  assist  him  in  this  it  is  just 
the  same  as  if  the  Lord  were  asking  you 
personally  to  do  it." 

As  they  were  riding  along  Bob 
thought  about  this  and  when  his  Dad 
let  him  out  in  front  of  Brother  Jones's 
house  he  went  right  up  and  knocked 
on  the  door.  Brother  Jones  opened  the 
door  with,  "What  do  you  want?" 

Bob  said,  "The  Lord  has  sent  me  here 
to  ask  you  if  you  will  help  him  assist 
the  needy  people." 

"You  mean  to  tell  me  the  Lord  sent 
you  here?" 

"Yes,  through  the  bishop  the  Lord 
has  sent  me  around  to  collect  fast 
offering." 

"Oh,  I  thought  I  had  scared  you  boys 
all  off,  but  I  guess  if  you  feel  that  the 
Lord  sent  you  here  nothing  I  could  say 
could  keep  you  from  coming.  So  may- 
be I  had  just  better  help  the  Lord  out 
a  little." 

Every  time  the  bishop  calls  me  in, 
sits  me  down,  looks  me  in  the  eye  and 
asks  me  if  I  am  living  the  gospel  I  know 
that  that  good  man  thinks  of  me  as  a 
son.  I  know  that  he  wants  me  to  be- 
come the  finest  man  and  the  best  mem- 
ber of  the  Church  that  it  is  possible 
for  me  to  become.  These  confidential 
interviews  with  the  bishop  make  me 
know  the  things  I  should  do  to  prepare 
for  my  advancements  in  the  priesthood. 
He  listens  to  my  problems  and  en- 
courages me  to  plan  ahead. 

When  I  reached  my  fourteenth  birth- 
day I  was  old  enough  to  be  advanced  to 
a  teacher.  I  know  that  when  the  bishop 
called  me  in  to  see  if  I  was  worthy  that 
he  would  know  through  the  spirit  of 
revelation  if  the  Lord  wanted  me  to 
have  more  responsibility  and  more  op- 
portunity to  use  his  priesthood.  I  went 
over  all  the  things  in  my  mind  that  the 
bishop  had  told  me  and  that  I  had 
learned  from  my  parents  and  teachers. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

I  hoped  that  God  would  forgive  me  for 
the  things  I  had  failed  to  do  and  the 
mistakes  I  had  made.  I  was  able  to 
answer  yes  truthfully  to  the  bishop's 
questions,  and  was  thrilled  when  I  was 
ordained  a  teacher. 

Now  I  have  the  opportunity  to  go 
with  my  father  as  a  home  teacher.  As 
my  father  and  I  discussed  our  families 
we  decided  that  if  we  were  to  be  a  good 
influence  on  their  lives  that  they  must 
trust  us,  and  in  order  for  them  to  trust 
us  we  would  have  to  be  sure  that  we 
were  completely  trustworthy,  not  only 
in  the  things  we  tell  them  about  the 
Church  but  in  every  other  way. 

A  man  went  one  evening  to  steal 
corn  from  a  neighbor's  field  and  he  took 
his  small  son  along  to  sit  on  the  fence 
as  lookout.  The  man  jumped  over  the 
fence  with  a  large  bag  over  his  arms. 
Before  taking  any  corn  he  looked  all 
around,  first  one  way  and  then  the 
other.  Satisfied,  he  was  just  ready  to  fill 
his  bag.  "Father,"  said  the  boy,  "there 
is  one  way  you  haven't  looked  yet." 
Startled  the  man  turned  around  and 
saw  his  son  pointing  up.  Conscience 
stricken  the  father  took  his  son  by  the 
hand  and  hurried  home.  The  small  boy 
had  reminded  his  father  that  the  eyes 
of  the  Lord  were  always  on  him  be- 
holding good  and  evil. 

I  have  learned  many  things  in  my 
activities  in  the  priesthood.  I  am  grate- 
ful that  I  know  about  the  Word  of 
Wisdom,  for  it  will  help  me  keep  my 
body  clean  and  strong.  As  I  tried  for 
basketball  and  other  sports  it  made  me 
realize  how  important  it  is  to  have  a 
strong  physical  body.  These  sports 
have  also  given  me  the  thrill  of  com- 
petition with  other  boys. 

I  have  come  to  realize  that  the  Lord 
will  always  do  better  for  me  than  I  can 
do  for  myself.  If  I  am  honest  with  him 
in  my  tithing  and  fast  offerings  he  will 
see  that  my  efforts  are  successful. 

I  hear  every  day  how  delinquent 
young  people  are  but  I  have  learned 
from  my  priesthood  leaders  that  if  I 
respect  my  parents  and  all  those  who 
are  in  authority  over  me  that  I  will 
never  be  considered  a  delinquent. 

The  priesthood  program  has  taught 
me  respect  for  the  rights  and  properties 
of  others.    I  have  found  that  everybody 


BROTHER  DOUGLAS  COWIE 


43 


isn't  trustworthy,  and  some  of  my 
friends  tell  me  that  they  can't  trust  any- 
one. But  as  I  have  worked  and  ad- 
vanced in  the  priesthood  I  have  learned 
that  there  are  those  I  can  trust — my 
bishop,  my  stake  president,  and  my 
father.  I  know  these  men  would  never 
lead  me  astray.  I  can  depend  on  them 
even  though  I  can't  rely  on  everything 
my  school  teacher  says. 

Even  when  I  am  alone  I  have  a 
source  of  truth.  The  Holy  Ghost  will 
always  let  me  know  right  from  wrong. 

Once  there  was  a  soldier  whose  job 
was  to  fire  a  cannon  every  evening  at 
precisely  six  o'clock  and  who  often 
boasted  that  his  timing  was  correct  to 
the  split  second.  "But  how  do  you  know 
your  watch  is  always  right?"  his  friend 
asked. 

"Because,"  he  replied,  "every  after- 
noon I  check  it  at  the  village  watch- 
maker's shop  which  is  the  most  accurate 
clock  I  have  ever  seen." 

Because  the  soldier  talked  so  glow- 
ingly about  the  clock  his  friend  finally 
went  to  see  it.  The  watchmaker 
proudly  displayed  this  wonderful  mech- 
anism and  was  asked,  "How  do  you 
know  it  keeps  perfect  time?"  He  an- 
swered, "Because  I  check  it  every  single 
night  with  the  gun  that  is  fired  at 
the  fort." 

When  we  have  a  reliable  source  of 
truth  we  have  a  security  in  the  end. 

I  feel  that  when  we  hold  the  priest- 
hood we  are  set  apart  from  the  rest  of 
the  world.  We  have  more  strength  to 
stand  alone  if  necessary.  We  develop 
this  strength  automatically  if  we  honor 
the  priesthood.  We  will  not  be  swayed 
by  the  opinion  of  the  crowd.  When 
the  gang  says  yes  we  have  the  courage 
to  say  no  if  they  are  wrong. 

More  than  half  a  century  ago  Elder 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  then  president  of  the 
Swiss-German  Mission,  later  Assistant 
to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  told  his 
missionaries:  "Elders,  there  is  no  wind 


that  can  ever  blow  a  tree  down  in  the 
forest  until  it  has  decayed  inside,  rot 
begins  in  the  center.  I  want  you  to 
keep  your  hearts  pure,  your  hands  clean 
and  there  will  never  be  any  temptation 
that  will  overcome  you." 

When  we  have  family  prayers  at 
home  my  parents  always  ask  the  Lord 
to  bless  us  children  that  we  will  live 
worthy  to  fill  missions  and  accomplish 
other  things.  I  include  these  same  re- 
quests in  my  private  prayers.  In  order 
for  the  Lord  to  hear  our  prayers  we 
must  be  humble  and  sincere. 

A  farmer  and  his  son  were  loading 
hay  for  market.  They  were  to  be  paid 
for  this  hay  according  to  its  weight.  A 
few  minutes  of  water  could  add  several 
hundred  pounds,  and  if  put  in  the 
center  of  the  load  would  not  be  easily 
detected.  The  farmer  said  to  his  son 
who  was  just  finishing  the  load,  "John, 
throw  a  few  more  buckets  of  water  in 
the  hay  and  come  in  to  family  prayers." 

We  should  not  be  hypocrites  and  ex- 
pect the  Lord  to  hear  our  prayers. 

I  am  looking  forward  to  going  on  a 
mission  and  finishing  school.  I  know 
that  I  can  have,  through  the  priesthood, 
access  to  the  powers  that  created  heaven 
and  earth.  I  know  that  this  power 
come  from  God  himself.  I  know  that 
through  this  and  because  of  the  atone- 
ment of  Christ  that  I  may  become  like 
God  if  I  do  my  best.  I  feel  within  my 
heart  that  these  things  are  true,  and  I 
give  you  this  testimony  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  those  who  are  keeping  notes,  he 
spells  his  name  P-L-U-M-B,  Ronald  G. 
Plumb.  He  is  a  teacher  from  the 
Studio  City  Ward,  Burbank  Stake. 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Brother 
Douglas  Cowie,  C-O-W-I-E,  a  priest 
from  the  Idaho  Falls  28th  Ward,  South 
Idaho  Falls  Stake. 


BROTHER  DOUGLAS  COWIE 

(A  Priest,  Idaho  Falls  28th  Ward,  South  Idaho  Falls  Stake) 


President  McKay,  President  Brown,  It  is  one  of  the  most  humbling  ex- 
President  Tanner,  and  brethren  in  this  experiences  I  know  to  stand  before  you 
body:  this  evening,  and  I  pray  that  the  Spirit 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


44 

Saturday,  April  4 

of  the  Lord  may  be  with  me  tonight 
that  I  may  express  what  is  in  my  heart. 

I  know  that  the  priesthood  was  given 
to  us  by  resurrected  beings.  John  the 
Baptist,  in  answer  to  the  prayers  of 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  came 
to  this  earth,  and  he  gave  to  them  the 
authority  and  the  power  to  act  in  the 
name  of  the  Lord.  With  this  power 
and  authority  came  the  thought  that 
they  should  act  not  as  masters  but  as 
servants.  As  stated  in  Matthew,  "And 
whosoever  will  be  chief  among  you, 
let  him  be  your  servant.  Even  as  the 
Son  of  man  came  not  to  be  ministered 
unto,  but  to  minister."  (Matt.  20:27-28.) 

We  might  even  regard  the  priesthood 
we  hold  as  a  sacred  ambassadorship. 
We  represent  our  Heavenly  Father  here 
upon  this  earth  just  as  an  ambassador 
would  represent  his  country  in  a  foreign 
land.  He  is  given  the  power  to  trans- 
act the  business  of  his  country,  and  in 
his  letter  of  assignment  to  a  particular 
foreign  country,  he  is  given  all  the 
power  and  the  authority  to  act  in  be- 
half of  the  country  he  represents,  just 
as  if  the  president  of  this  country  him- 
self were  there.  Whether  good  or 
whether  bad,  his  actions  and  his  atti- 
tudes reflect  upon  the  country  and  the 
president  he  represents. 

So  it  is  with  us.  We  are  delegated 
as  spokesmen  of  our  Heavenly  Father, 
and  we  must  live  up  this  moral 
challenge. 

As  young  men  of  this  Church,  we 
are  given  three  major  responsibilities 
in  the  priesthood  and  as  members  of 
the  Church: 

One,  and  above  all,  to  serve  our 
Heavenly  Father. 

Two,  to  work  in  the  service  of  our 
fellowmen,  to  work  in  the  service  of 
our  brethren  in  the  Church,  in  the 
priesthood. 

Three,  to  work  toward  the  better- 
ment of  ourselves;  to  work  towards  our 
goals  and  towards  our  ideals. 

We  are  watched  as  young  men  of 
this  Church,  watched  by  members  and 
non-members  alike.  They  watch  to 
see  if  we  as  holders  of  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  live  up  to  the  authority 
which  has  been  delegated  to  us  here 
upon  this  earth, — the  wonderful  author- 
ity and  responsibility  to  act  in  the  name 


First  Day 

of  our  Father  in  Heaven.  We  are  the 
ambassadors  of  our  Heavenly  Father 
and  we  must  live  up  to  this  challenge. 

This  challenge  affects  me  as  a  priest, 
and  all  of  us  as  Aaronic  Priesthood 
bearers.  This  is  a  moral  challenge  and 
responsibility,  and  through  our  advance- 
ment in  the  priesthood  we  can  learn  to 
follow  the  right  road  and  the  right  path 
to  eternal  salvation.  Our  responsibility 
as  young  men  of  this  Church  to  keep 
ourselves  on  the  right  path  and  to  gain 
eternal  salvation  is  as  important  today 
as  it  was  in  the  time  of  David,  as  stated 
in  Ecclesiastes:  "Rejoice,  O  Young  man, 
in  thy  youth;  and  let  thy  heart  cheer 
thee  in  the  days  of  thy  youth,  and  walk 
in  the  ways  of  thine  heart,  and  in  the 
sight  of  thine  eyes:  but  know  thou,  that 
for  all  these  things  God  will  bring  thee 
into  judgment."  (11:9.) 

If  we  live  a  life  full  and  rich  in  serv- 
ice, if  we  follow  the  responsbilities 
that  are  ours  as  bearers  of  this  priest- 
hood, what  a  blessed  day  we  will  have 
when  Christ  comes  again,  what  a  blessed 
day  we  will  have  on  our  day  of  judg- 
ment. 

As  a  priest,  the  responsibilities  of 
deacon  and  teacher  are  multiplied  three- 
fold, and  I  know  the  full  responsibility 
that  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  brings  to 
bear  upon  us  as  priests.  As  I  say  the 
prayer  on  the  bread  and  water,  a  won- 
derful feeling  comes  over  me,  and  I 
feel  it  deep  inside.  "Keep  his  com- 
mandments which  he  hath  given  them, 
that  they  may  always  have  his  Spirit  to 
be  with  them."  What  a  wonderful 
promise  that  can  be  if  we  but  keep  the 
commandments  of  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  office  of  a  priest,  to  which  I  have 
been  called,  is  the  crossroads  to  me.  It 
is  at  once  the  culmination  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  and  the  opening  of 
the  door  to  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood. 
I  am  at  the  crossroads  in  many  ways  in 
my  life,  and  many  people  regard  my 
age  group  as  a  crucial  age.  I  am  seven- 
teen years  old,  an  age  regarded  as  cru- 
cial because  I  am  not  a  boy,  and  I  am 
still  in  the  process  of  becoming  a  man, 
an  age  regarded  as  crucial  because  we 
as  youth  are  thought  to  be  swayed  so 
easily.  I  pray  to  my  Heavenly  Father 
that  we  my  have  the  moral  courage  as 
the  youth  of  Zion  that  we  will  not  be 


BROTHER  DOUGLAS  COWIE 


45 


swayed  by  petty  desires,  that  we  will  not 
be  swayed  by  petty  actions  or  petty 
thoughts.  Joshua  said,  "Choose  you 
this  day  whom  ye  will  serve  .  .  .  but  as 
for  me  and  my  house,  we  will  serve  the 
Lord."  (Joshua  24:15.) 

I  am  proud  of  this  gospel.  I  am 
proud  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  and  I  am  proud  of 
the  priesthood  I  hold.  And  Moses  stood 
before  the  gate  and  said  to  them, 
"Who's  on  the  Lord's  side,  and  the 
sons  of  Levi  came  unto  him." 

I  know  that  through  moral  courage 
and  responsibility  we  as  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood bearers  will  not  be  swayed  by  the 
pitfalls  that  might  await  us.  Through 
serving  in  our  priesthood  in  our  Church 
is  the  only  way  we  can  gain  eternal 
salvation  in  the  celestial  kingdom. 

When  I  first  was  ordained  to  the  office 
of  a  deacon  I  went  to  my  first  priesthood 
meeting  and  I  heard  a  talk  and  it  was 
on  "Goals  and  Challenges."  I  came 
home  from  priesthood  meeting  and  de- 
cided that  now  was  the  time  for  me  to 
set  up  a  list  of  my  goals,  a  list  of  my 
challenges  so  that  I  might  live  and  work 
towards  these  goals  in  the  years  to  come. 
I  reached  for  a  sheet  of  paper  and  en- 
titled it  "Goals  to  Gain,"  and  I  listed 
my  goals  on  this  sheet  of  paper  and 
pasted  it  on  the  wall  in  my  bedroom 
where  I  could  see  it  everv  day  so  that 
I  might  know  what  I  had  to  accomplish 
here  upon  this  earth.  You  know  my 
mother  doesn't  like  sticky  things  on  her 
wall  and  I  had  to  use  the  tape  rather 
sparingly,  and  you  would  be  surprised 
with  what  regularity  that  chart  would 
blow  off  my  wall.  But  as  it  fell  I  would 
pick  it  up  off  the  floor  and  tape  it  up 
again,  because  I  knew  that  these  are 
goals  that  I  must  gain. 

The  first  goal  on  my  list  is  simply 
the  word  "Mission."  My  mission  is 
predicated  upon  my  living  up  to  all  of 
the  goals  that  I  have  set  for  myself. 
I  count  the  time  now.  I  have  one  year, 
seven  months  and  eighteen  days  until 
I  can  have  the  opportunity  to  be  called 
to  go  on  a  mission,  and  I  pray  humbly 
that  I  might  be  able  to  preach  the  gos- 
pel to  the  people  of  this  earth.  I  am  on 
the  threshold  of  this  wonderful  experi- 
ence, as  we  all  are  as  Aaronic  Priesthood 
bearers.  We  have  a  moral  responsibility 


to  keep  ourselves  alert  for  the  right 
paths  and  the  right  roads  to  follow. 

The  second  goal  on  my  list  is  that 
of  gaining  an  education.  "The  glory  of 
God  is  intelligence."  We  as  members 
of  this  Church  seek  after  truth,  we  seek 
after  light  and  beauty,  and  we  seek  after 
intelligence.  To  gain  knowledge  and  suc- 
cess in  any  field,  we  must  depend  upon 
our  Heavenly  Father.  I  know  that  the 
power  of  prayer  is  great  in  our  lives  and 
without  our  Heavenly  Father's  help  and 
without  the  knowledge  that  you  can 
get  on  your  knees  and  pray  to  your 
Heavenly  Father  and  know  within  your- 
self that  he  answers  your  prayers,  noth- 
ing would  be  possible. 

My  third  goal  on  the  list  is  that  of 
temple  marriage.  Temple  marriage  is 
necessary  if  we  are  to  reach  the  highest 
place  in  the  celestial  kingdom.  Along 
with  temple  marriage  comes  the  thought 
that  I  must  associate  with  the  highest 
caliber  of  individual.  I  must  associate 
with  members  of  this  Church.  I  don't 
think  I  have  ever  had  a  year  where  I 
have  had  such  a  full  association.  I  have 
the  opportunity  one  hour  a  day  of 
leaving  school  and  going  across  the 
street  and  conversing  and  talking  and 
learning  from  some  of  the  most  won- 
derful brethren  I  know.  They  are  my 
seminary  teachers.  And  here  in  semi- 
nary, in  my  priests  cottage  meetings,  in 
MIA,  and  in  this  Church  I  have  the 
opportunity  of  associating  with  the 
highest  type  individuals.  I  know  a  fel- 
low at  my  high  school.  He  will  be 
nineteen  in  four  months,  he  is  a  senior 
this  year,  and  he  has  prepared  himself 
for  his  mission.  He  has  worked  and 
studied  and  learned.  These  are  the  kind 
of  people  I  want  to  associate  with.  I 
feel  that  I  should  associate  with  the 
highest  caliber  of  young  women  in  this 
Church.  I  should  associate  with  young 
women  who  have  as  their  only  ideal  that 
of  virtue  and  modesty,  and  whose  beauty 
comes  from  within  in  the  fact  that  they 
have  a  testimony  of  this  gospel. 

These  goals  are  challenges  to  me  as  I 
advance  in  the  priesthood.  I  can  always 
strive  a  little  bit  harder  and  aim  a  little 
higher.  If  we  aim  for  the  stars,  the 
world  is  ours  in  conquering  them.  We 
have  goals  and  we  have  moral  obliga- 
tions as  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

hood,  and  we  must  better  ourselves 
through  attaining  these  goals. 

And  so  we  have  a  task  here  upon  this 
earth.    What  is  our  task? 

God  says,  Your  task  is  to  build  a  better 

world;  I  answered  how 
This  world  is  such  a  large,  vast  place, 

so  complicated  now, 
And  I  so  small  and  useless  am,  there 

is  nothing  I  can  do. 
But  God  in  all  his  wisdom  said,  Build 

a  Better  You. 

This  is  our  responsibility  as  priest- 
hood bearers,  as  members  of  this 
Church,  to  build  a  Better  You,  to  make 
our  one  goal  here  upon  his  earth  the 
celestial  kingdom.  And  let  us  remem- 
ber too  that 

Heaven  is  not  gained  by  a  single  bound, 
That  we  build  the  ladder  by  which  we 
rise 

From  the  lowly  earth  to  the  vaulted 
skies 

And  mount  its  summit  round  by  round. 

Our  obligation  as  young  men  of  this 
Church  is  to  build  this  ladder  and  build 
it  well  and  build  it  sturdily;  build  it 
through  our  advancement  in  the  priest- 
hood; build  it  through  an  honest  life; 
build  it  on  service  in  this  Church; 
build  it  upon  prayer  and  build  it  upon 
the  commandments  that  the  Lord  has 
set  for  us  to  keep;  build  it  upon  a  life 
that  has  been  untarnished  by  unclean 
thought,  unclean  speech  or  unclean 
actions.  Build  it  for  the  good,  remem- 
bering always  that  advancement  in  the 
priesthood  means  greater  moral  respon- 
sibility. 

Brethren,  I  have  a  testimony  of  this 
gospel.    I  know  it  to  be  the  truth,  and 


First  Day 

I  pray  to  my  Heavenly  Father  that  we 
as  the  youth  of  Zion  will  not  falter, 
that  we  will  accept  this  Gospel,  that 
we  will  use  it  in  our  lives,  that  we  will 
build  on  it  and  that  we  will  work  and 
work  and  work  to  gain  the  celestial 
kingdom  and  eternal  salvation.  I  am 
thankful  for  this  priesthood  which  I 
hold  and  for  the  opportunity  it  gives 
me  of  serving  in  the  Church,  and  I 
say  these  things  humbly,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  young  men,  for  your 
messages  this  night.  You  will  never 
forget  this  experience!  It  almost 
seemed  to  overwhelm  Brother  Plumb. 
But  didn't  you  admire  him  as  he  stood 
there  facing  an  audience  of  approxi- 
mately 50,000?  He  gave  a  very  lovely 
talk.  So  did  Brother  Cowie.  But  the 
experience  of  overcoming  the  fear  and 
timidity  will  stay  with  Brother  Plumb 
all  his  life,  and  he  will  be  thankful 
for  his  achievement. 

I  remember  that  same  feeling  in  fac- 
ing a  smaller  audience  than  he  faced 
tonight.  I  couldn't  remember  the 
prayer  on  the  Sacrament.  I  could  say 
it  alone  from  memory,  and  intended  to 
ask  the  blessing  on  the  bread  until  I 
looked  at  the  audience.  It  was  only  a 
Fluntsville  audience,  but  it  was  a  big 
audience  (laughter),  but  the  memory 
of  that  achievement — going  through 
with  it — has  remained  all  through  the 
years. 

Thank  you  again.  You  have  over- 
come fear  and  you  succeeded  in  giv- 
ing the  messages,  just  as  I  did. 

Bishop  John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presid- 
ing Bishop  to  the  Church,  will  now 
address  us. 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 

Two  weeks  ago  I  was  flying  over  the  below,  and  then  narrowing  his  atten- 

Hoover  Dam  as  a  passenger  in  a  jet  tion  to  the  Hoover  Dam,  exclaimed, 

airliner.   The  person  sitting  next  to  me  "It  seems  incredible  that  such  a  small 

peered  out  of  the  window,  viewing  the  dam  could  control  and  hold  in  check 

vast  reaches  and  expanse  of  Lake  Mead  such  a  vast  supply  of  water." 


BISHOP  JOHN  H.  VANDENBERG 


47 


Marvels  of  Men,  How  Achieved 

We  marvel  at  the  works  of  man,  but 
sometimes  fail  to  remember  the  plan- 
ning, the  engineering,  and  the  de- 
signing which  is  necessary  to  build  a 
structure  such  as  the  Hoover  Dam. 
Construction  of  such  a  work  requires 
the  careful  placing  of  each  bar  of 
steel,  the  perfect  mixing  of  each  batch 
of  concrete,  the  proper  control  of 
temperatures,  and  the  exact  performance 
of  other  manifold  and  critical  details  to 
achieve  the  necessary  built-in  strength 
to  insure  endurance  and  permanency 
to  such  a  gigantic  project.  Now,  just 
as  it  is  necessary  to  carefully  "build  in" 
the  needed  strength  to  protect  the 
safety  of  a  material  structure — so  it  is 
necessary  to  build  into  the  souls  of  men 
the  moral  strength  that  helps  mould 
character  that  will  protect  the  safety  of 
the  individual. 

Priesthood  an  Active  Force  for 
Character  Building 

Tonight,  we  have  heard  excellent  ad- 
dresses given  by  two  young  men  holding 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  [Ronald  G. 
Plumb,  Douglas  Cowie]*  They  have 
shown  evidence  of  having  built  moral 
strength  into  their  character,  as  they 
have  touched  the  hearts  of  this  vast 
priesthood  assemblage.  The  priesthood 
which  we  bear  should  be  an  active  force 
to  develop  a  more  effective  application 
of  moral  principles,  thereby  strengthen- 
ing our  powers  to  subdue  the  adversary. 

The  great  Archimedes  of  Syracuse  ex- 
claimed to  his  king,  "Give  me  a  lever 
and  a  place  on  which  to  rest  it,  and 
I  will  move  the  world."  (100  Great 
Lives,  p.  526.) 

It  is  the  Holy  Priesthood,  likened  unto 
a  lever,  placed  upon  and  entrusted  to 
worthy  men,  that  is  bringing  forth  the 
mighty  work  of  God. 

"Upon  you  my  fellow  servants,  in  the 
name  of  Messiah  I  confer  the  Priest- 
hood of  Aaron,  which  holds  the  keys 
of  the  ministering  of  angels,  and  of  the 
gospel  of  repentance,  and  of  baptism  by 
immersion  for  the  remission  of  sins;  .  .  ." 
(D&C  13.)  Thus  spoke  John  the 
Baptist  as  he  conferred  the  Lesser  Priest- 
hood upon  Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver 
Cowdery. 

This  was  the  beginning — as  the  Lord 


has  said,  "To  prepare  the  weak  for 
those  things  which  are  coming  on 
earth,  and  for  the  Lord's  errand  in  the 
day  when  the  weak  shall  confound 
the  wise,  and  the  little  one  become  a 
strong  nation,  and  two  shall  put  their 
tens  of  thousands  to  flight. 

"And  by  the  weak  things  of  the  earth 
the  Lord  shall  thrash  the  nations  by  the 
power  of  his  Spirit."  (Ibid.,  133:58-59.) 

The  Aaronic  Priesthood,  with  its 
various  offices  of  deacon,  teacher,  and 
priest,  is  conferred  upon  worthy  men 
and  boys  in  the  Church  over  twelve 
years  of  age.  It  is  expected  that  every- 
one thus  ordained  will  officiate  in  his 
respective  office  and  calling  with  dig- 
nity and  devotion.  The  office  of  bishop 
is  conferred  by  ordination  to  those 
especially  called  to  administer  all  of  the 
affairs  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  in 
the  ward. 

The  Office  of  Bishop 

The  office  of  a  bishop  is  one  of  the 
great  offices  in  the  priesthood.  It  is 
highly  important  that  every  bishop  in 
the  Church  recognize  as  a  prime  re- 
sponsibility his  calling  and  ordination 
in  the  Lesser  Priesthood.  The  bishop 
is  familiar  with  God's  purposes,  for 
God  has  said:  ".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and 
my  glory — to  bring  to  pass  the  immor- 
tality and  eternal  life  of  man"  (Moses 
1:39),  and  the  true  bishop  will  resolve, 
"this  is  my  work  and  my  glory  to  bring 
to  pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  each  boy  and  girl  entrusted  to  my 
care."  To  do  this  requires  not  only 
dedication  and  singleness  of  purpose 
but  also  the  necessity  of  being  an  exam- 
ple in  his  own  personal  conduct.  Paul 
counseled  Titus,  "...  a  bishop  must  be 
blameless,  as  the  steward  of  God;  not 
selfwilled,  not  soon  angry,  not  given  to 
wine,  no  striker,  not  given  to  filthy 
lucre; 

"But  a  lover  of  hospitality,  a  lover  of 
good  men,  sober,  just,  holy,  temperate; 

"Holding  fast  the  faithful  word  as  he 
hath  been  taught,  that  he  may  be  able 
by  sound  doctrine  both  to  exhort  and 
convince  the  gainsayers."  (Titus  1:7-9.) 

Attitude  of  Bishop 

The  attitude  of  a  bishop  with  respect 
to  his  calling  may  bring  about  the 


48 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

rise  or  fall  of  Aaronic  Priesthood  bearers 
in  his  ward.  Advancement  in  this 
priesthood  should  warrant  greater  moral 
responsibility.  Advancement  to  the 
office  of  a  bishop  means  the  greatest  of 
moral  responsibility  not  only  to  his 
own  life  but  to  the  life  of  each  boy  and 
girl  in  his  ward. 

Assignments  of  Responsibility 

I  believe  every  boy  looks  forward  to 
being  ordained  to  the  office  of  a  dea- 
con. He  has  prepared  himself  to  the 
best  of  his  youthful  ability  to  receive 
the  Aaronic  Priesthood.  From  this 
point  forward,  if  he  fails  to  carry  out 
the  responsibilities  involved,  it  is  usually 
due  to  his  own  father's  or  to  his 
bishop's  neglect.  This  poses  an  awe- 
some thought,  but  remember  the  boys 
must  not  stand  alone,  they  ".  .  .  need  to 
have  firm  limits  set  for  them  as  they 
grow,"  counseled  Graham  B.  Blaine, 
Jr.,  "for  only  in  this  way  can  they  learn 
to  impose  discipline  upon  themselves; 
without  such  limits  they  grow  into  irre- 
sponsible, selfish,  and  conscienceless 
adults."  (Journal  of  National  Associa- 
tion of  Women's  Deans  and  Counselors, 
Nov.  1,  1963,  Blaine,  Graham  B.  Jr., 
"Stress  and  Distress  and  Identity  Forma- 
tion in  College  and  High  School.") 

A  Testimony  from  Life 

I  believe  every  boy  should  feel  as 
Elder  James  E.  Talmage  did  when  he 
was  ordained  a  deacon.  He  said:  "I 
was  called  and  ordained  one  Sunday 
morning,  without  any  previous  notice; 
and  that  afternoon  was  placed  as  a 
sentinel  at  the  door  of  the  house  in 
which  the  Saints  had  met  for  worship. 
As  soon  as  I  had  been  ordained,  a  feeling 
came  to  me  such  as  I  have  never  been 
able  to  fully  describe.  It  seemed 
scarcely  possible,  that  I,  a  little  boy, 
could  be  so  honored  of  God  as  to  be 
called  to  the  priesthood.  I  had  read  of 
the  sons  of  Aaron  and  of  Levi  who 
were  chosen  for  the  sacred  labors  of  the 
Lesser  Priesthood,  but  that  I  should  be 
called  to  do  part  of  the  service  that  had 
been  required  of  them  was  more  than 
my  little  mind  could  grasp.  I  was  both 
frightened  and  happy.  Then,  when  I  was 
placed  on  duty  at  the  door,  I  forgot  that 
I  was  but  an  eleven-year-old  lad;  I  felt 


First  Day 

strong  in  the  thought  that  I  belonged 
to  the  Lord,  and  that  he  would  assist 
me  in  whatever  was  required  of  me.  I 
could  not  resist  the  conviction  that 
other  sentinels,  stronger  by  far  than  I, 
stood  by  me  though  invisible  to  hu- 
man eyes. 

"The  effect  of  my  ordination  to  the 
deaconship  entered  into  all  the  affairs  of 
my  boyish  life.  I  am  afraid  that  some- 
times I  forgot  what  I  was,  but  I  have 
ever  been  thankful  that  ofttimes  I  did 
remember,  and  the  recollection  always 
served  to  make  me  better.  When  at 
play  on  the  school  grounds,  and  per- 
haps tempted  to  take  unfair  advantage 
in  the  game,  when  in  the  midst  of  a 
dispute  with  a  playmate,  I  would  re- 
member, and  the  thought  would  be  as 
effective  as  though  spoken  aloud — 'I  am 
a  deacon;  and  it  is  not  right  that  a  dea- 
con should  act  in  this  way.'  On  exam- 
ination days,  when  it  seemed  easy  for 
me  to  copy  some  other  boy's  work  or  to 
'crib'  from  the  book,  I  would  remember 
again,  'I  am  a  deacon,  and  must  be 
honest  and  true.'  When  I  saw  other 
boys  cheating  in  play  or  in  school,  I 
would  say  in  my  mind,  'It  would  be 
more  wicked  for  me  to  do  that  than  it 
is  for  them,  because  I  am  a  deacon.' 

"Nothing  that  was  required  of  me  in 
the  duties  of  my  office  was  irksome; 
the  sense  of  the  great  honor  of  my 
ordination  made  all  service  welcome.  I 
was  the  only  deacon  in  the  branch, 
and  had  abundant  opportunity  to  work. 

"The  impression  made  upon  my 
mind  when  I  was  made  a  deacon  has 
never  faded.  The  feeling  that  I  was 
called  to  the  special  service  of  the 
Lord,  as  a  bearer  of  the  priesthood,  has 
been  a  source  of  strength  to  me  through 
all  the  years.  When  later  I  was  or- 
dained to  higher  offices  in  the  Church, 
the  same  assurance  has  come  to  me,  on 
every  such  occasion, — that  I  was  in 
truth  endowed  with  power  from  heaven, 
and  that  the  Lord  demanded  of  me  that 
I  honor  his  authority.  I  have  been 
ordained  in  turn  a  teacher,  an  elder,  a 
high  priest,  and  lastly  an  apostle  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  with  every 
ordination  there  has  come  to  me  a  new 
and  soul-thrilling  feeling  which  first  I 
knew  when  I  was  called  to  be  a  deacon 
in  the  service  of  the  Lord."  (Course  of 


BISHOP  JOHN  H. 

Study  for  the  Quorums  of  the  Priesthood: 
Deacons  1914,  pp.  135-136.) 

I  am  sure  this  testimony  of  Elder 
Talmage  will  make  us  appreciate  more 
fully  the  great  privilege  it  is  to  hold 
the  priesthood. 

Youth  Wants  to  Be  Strong 

There  is  much  evidence  to  indicate 
that  young  people  want  to  learn  and 
to  be  strong.  A  recent  report  in  The 
British  Journal  of  Educational  Psy- 
chology said:  "School  children  may  be 
more  eager  to  learn  than  teachers  are 
to  teach  them.  More  than  800  British 
primary  and  secondary  school  children 
were  given  a  list  of  qualities  of  good 
teachers  that  had  been  compiled  from 
student  essays.  They  were  asked  to 
grade  these  qualities  in  order  of  im- 
portance. The  children  rated  the 
teacher's  ability  to  teach  above  all  other 
qualities  and  also  put  disciplinary  skills 
above  such  personal  skills  as  friendli- 
ness, patience,  kindness,  and  good 
humor." 

The  Body  a  Sacred  Blessing 

Basically,  the  right  and  responsibility 
of  teaching  a  boy  or  girl  the  sacredness 
of  their  bodies  is  an  obligation  of  par- 
ents. Fathers  should  be  so  close  to  their 
sons  that  many  discussions  can  be  held 
on  the  subject.  It  is  unfortunate  when 
a  boy  holding  the  priesthood  of  God 
does  not  feel  free  to  initiate  such  a  dis- 
cussion with  his  father  and  must  satisfy 
his  curiosity  by  listening  to  others. 

Cooperation  of  Parents  and  Bishops 

Bishops  should  encourage  parents  to 
learn  the  moral  standards  that  have 
been  established  by  God  and  urge  them 
to  teach  such  to  their  children  when 
the  children's  comprehension  level  is 
such  that  it  does  not  become  suggestive. 
We  have  recommended  to  the  bishops, 
for  a  number  of  years,  that  they  meet 
with  the  parents  of  every  boy  who  is 
approaching  twelve  years  of  age  to  ex- 
plain the  programs,  opportunities,  and 
moral  obligations  of  priesthood  service. 

This  conference  with  parents  is  neces- 
sary to  bring  about  greater  parental 
encouragement  to  the  boys.  It  would 
seem  that  a  wise  bishop  might  profitably 
explain  to  the  parents  at  such  a  time 


VANDENBERG  49 

the  Lord's  fiats  on  chastity  and  urge 
them  to  explain  these  things  to  their 
sons  whenever  their  maturity  level 
would  justify. 

In  the  book  of  Samuel  there  is  an 
interesting  account  of  the  high  priest 
Eli.  Eli  was  a  judge,  a  devoted  servant 
of  the  Lord  in  ancient  Israel.  He  was  a 
descendant  of  Aaron  through  his 
younger  son.  Most  often  we  think  of 
Eli  through  his  connection  with  the 
child  Samuel  in  the  temple.  But  the 
sons  of  Eli  were  evil  and  did  not  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord.  They, 
therefore,  knew  not  the  God  of  Israel 
but  worshiped  wickedness.  The  ac- 
count reads:  "Now  Eli  was  very  old,  and 
heard  all  that  his  sons  did  unto 
all  Israel;  ..."  (1  Sam.  2:22.) 

As  a  result  of  their  evil  acts,  they 
were  not  privileged  to  administer  the 
ordinances  of  the  Lesser  Priesthood.  It 
would  have  been  their  right  to  continue 
in  offering  the  outward  ordinances  of 
the  Lesser  Priesthood  after  their  father's 
death.  Instead,  they  lost  not  only  the 
privileges  of  priesthood  service  but  also 
eternal  life. 

The  Lord  condemned  Eli,  and  he  was 
no  longer  among  the  chosen  because 
as  a  father  he  did  not  discipline  and 
control  his  sons.  "...  I  will  judge  his 
house  for  ever  for  the  iniquity  which 
he  knoweth;"  said  the  Lord,  "because 
his  sons  made  themselves  vile,  and  he 
restrained  them  not."  (Ibid.,  3:13.) 

Someone  has  said:  "There  is  no  need 
of  searching  out  your  genealogy  if  you 
did  not  know  where  your  children  were 
last  night."  There  is  no  calling  in  this 
Church  that  supersedes  that  of  being 
a  father.  No  assignment  in  the  Church 
should  ever  be  considered  as  an  excuse 
to  neglect  the  home.  The  home  is  the 
basic  unit  of  the  Church.  Teach  your 
sons  by  example  to  be  loyal  and  faith- 
ful to  the  law,  to  the  officers,  to  the 
priesthood,  and  to  the  authority  of 
God.  Your  family  needs  your  allegiance 
and  fidelity  to  the  Church  which  in- 
cludes the  home.  Refrain  from  evil 
speech;  your  language  should  at  all 
times  be  clean  and  elevating. 

The  late  Elder  Albert  E.  Bowen  said: 
".  .  .  one  of  the  marvelous  things  about 
the  gospel  is  that  when  a  command  has 
been  given,  or  otherwise  to  state  it,  a 


50 

Saturday,  April  4 

principle  of  progress  is  revealed,  there 
is  always  incorporated  a  means  for  ef- 
fecting its  purpose."  (The  Welfare  Plan, 
p.  142.) 

Aaronic  Priesthood,  Effective 
Principle  of  Progress 

Now  to  you  boys,  we  want  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  to  be  an  effective 
principle  of  progress  in  your  lives  to 
prepare  you  for  leadership  in  the 
Church.  This  year  we  included  some 
additional  goals  for  you  to  achieve  in 
the  priesthood  program.  One  of  these 
is  the  memorization  of  specific  scrip- 
tures. We  chose  them  because  we  be- 
lieve they  will  be  helpful  for  you  better 
to  understand  some  basic  tenets  of  the 
gospel.  There  is  no  doubt  that  you  can 
learn  them  if  you  will  just  apply  your- 
selves to  the  task. 

The  other  evening,  Sister  Vandenberg 
and  I  were  walking  down  Main  Street. 
We  were  about  fifteen  feet  behind  two 
young  men  in  their  early  teens.  The 
smaller  of  the  two  was  reciting  with 
vigor  part  of  Anthony's  "oration  over 
Caesar's  body."  I  could  not  help  but 
overhear — he  did  it  so  well.  As  I  lis- 
tened I  thought  how  wonderful  is  the 
exuberance  of  youth  with  its  ability  to 
learn  and  absorb —  I  also  thought  of 
the  goals  we  had  set  for  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood  and  felt  good  in  the  thought 
that  if  this  youngster  could  recite 
literature  on  the  street,  certainly  there 
would  be  no  difficulty  for  the  boys  who 
bear  the  priesthood  of  God  to  memorize 
and  recite  the  scriptures  as  assigned. 

As  I  close,  let  us  ponder  the  promise 
of  the  Lord:  "Thou  shalt  take  the 
things  which  thou  hast  received,  which 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

have  been  given  unto  thee  in  my  scrip- 
tures for  a  law,  to  be  my  law  to  govern 
my  church; 

"And  he  that  doeth  according  to 
these  things  shall  be  saved,  and  he  that 
doeth  them  not  shall  be  damned  if  he 
so  continue. 

"If  thou  shalt  ask,  thou  shalt  receive 
revelation  upon  revelation,  knowledge 
upon  knowledge,  that  thou  mayest  know 
the  mysteries  and  peaceable  things — 
that  which  bringeth  joy,  that  whicb 
bringeth  life  eternal."  (D&C  42:59-61.) 

"Young  Men,  God  Loves  You" 

Let  me  assure  you  young  men  that 
God  loves  you.  You  are  a  thousand- 
fold more  valuable  than  the  works  of 
men  over  which  we  frequently  marvel. 
God,  therefore,  expects  you  to  disci- 
pline yourselves  and  to  build  into  your 
character  virtues  that  will  endure 
forever. 

May  God  bless  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood of  this  Church  is  my  humble 
prayer  which  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Brother  Richard  P.  Condie  will  now 
lead  the  congregation  and  chorus  in 
singing,  "Do  What  Is  Right." 

The  Men's  Chorus  and  the  congrega- 
tion joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Do 
What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  will 
now  address  us. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren:  To  me  it  is  a  great  privi- 
lege and  blessing  to  be  able  to  meet 
with  the  priesthood,  and  as  President 
McKay  said  this  evening,  the  largest 
body  of  priesthood  that  has  ever  met  in 
the  history  of  this  Church. 

"Seek  ye  first.  .  .  ." 

What  an  inspiration  it  is  to  hear  these 
young  men  bear  their  testimonies  as  to 


what  the  priesthood  means  to  them  and 
how  they  are  determined  to  strive  to 
live  worthy  of  the  priesthood  which 
they  bear.  It  makes  me  believe  that 
they  sincerely  mean  and  understand 
that  if  they  seek  first  the  kingdom  of 
God  and  his  righteousness,  all  these 
things  which  will  be  for  their  good  will 
be  added  unto  them.  (See  Matt.  6:33.) 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


51 


Bishop's,  Father's,  Advice  and  Example 

As  I  look  back  over  my  life,  I  should 
like  this  evening  to  pay  tribute  to  and 
thank  my  father  and  my  bishop,  who 
is  the  same  man,  for  the  direction  and 
help  and  guidance  and  example  he  gave 
me  all  the  time  I  was  going  through  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  quorums.  He  taught 
me  all  the  time,  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness: 
and  all  these  things,  my  boy,  will  be 
added  unto  you." 

I  remember  when  I  was  a  deacon,  we 
had  no  cars,  no  trucks.  We  had 
wagons  and  buggies — we  usually  had 
a  democrat.  When  we  went  to  priest- 
hood meeting,  we  had  to  travel  about 
eight  miles,  and  we  never  missed 
the  general  stake  priesthood  meeting 
which  was  held  once  a  month.  My 
father  used  to  try  to  make  those  meet- 
ings pay  both  ways;  for  instance,  he 
would  have  a  team  and  wagon  full  of 
wheat,  and  I  would  have  a  team  and 
wagon  full  of  wheat  following  him  for 
about  eight  miles,  which  would  take  us 
just  a  little  better  than  two  hours  to 
get  to  our  priesthood  meeting.  And 
we  would  go  early  enough  so  that  we 
could  pick  up  a  load  of  coal  to  bring 
back  after  priesthood  meeting.  But  we 
never  missed  priesthood  meeting. 

As  I  think  back  over  that  experience 
I  had  with  that  wonderful  man,  I  can't 
help  giving  him  practically  all  the 
credit  for  directing  me  and  teaching  me 
to  believe  that  if  I  would  seek  first  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteousness, 
all  these  things  would  be  added  unto 
me.  That  was  a  great  lesson  for  me 
to  learn. 

I  remember  another  thing  he  taught 
me  which  was  very  important.  As  a 
bishop  he  was  not  able  to  spend  the 
time  at  home  that  some  men  can  who 
are  not  bishops.  He  left  us  one  after- 
noon while  he  was  going  out  to  look 
after  his  flock  in  the  ward,  and  my 
brother  and  I  were  assigned  to  do 
certain  things.  He  came  back  a  little 
sooner  than  he  had  intended,  or  than 
we  had  expected  him  to  come  back 
anyway,  and  we  hadn't  accomplished 
what  he  had  asked  us  to  do.  We  had 
some  calves  in  the  corral  we  thought 
needed  riding,  and  so  we  went  about 
to  accommodate  those  calves. 


I  will  never  forget  the  whipping  my 
father  gave  me  when  he  came  in  and 
found  we  had  not  done  the  work  which 
we  had  been  assigned.  He  called  me 
over  to  him  and  he  said,  "My  boy,  I 
thought  I  could  depend  upon  you." 
That  is  all  he  said. 

"I  Could  Depend  Upon  You" 

I  made  up  my  mind  at  that  moment 
that  father  could  never  say  that  to  me 
again  as  long  as  I  lived  and  as  long  as 
he  lived.  And  I  was  happy  that  he 
gave  me  that  experience.  A  trouncing 
wouldn't  have  done  the  good  that  "My 
boy,  I  thought  I  could  depend  upon 
you"  did.  I  made  up  my  mind  then 
that  no  one  would  ever  be  able  to  say, 
"I  thought  I  could  depend  upon  you." 

I  thought  as  these  young  men  were 
talking  here  tonight,  they  should  make 
it  a  matter  in  their  lives  that  no  one 
could  ever  say,  "I  thought  I  could  de- 
pend on  you,"  but  could  always  say, 
"There  is  a  boy  that  I  can  depend  on." 
And  we  brethren  who  hold  the  priest- 
hood should  be  the  kind  of  men  on 
whom  the  Lord  knows  he  can  depend. 

It  is  an  interesting  thing  that  neigh- 
bors expect  one  another  to  keep  their 
covenants  and  to  keep  their  agreements, 
and  if  a  neighbor  makes  an  agreement 
with  another  neighbor  and  he  doesn't 
live  up  to  that  agreement,  his  neighbor 
immediately  rates  him  way  down.  But 
this  same  neighbor  might  be  and  very 
possibly  is  not  keeping  his  covenants 
with  his  Heavenly  Father.  And  I  won- 
der if  his  Heavenly  Father  is  saying  to 
him,  "Son,  I  thought  I  could  depend 
on  you." 

Again  I  wish  to  say,  if  you  seek  first 
the  kingdom  of  God  and  his  righteous- 
ness, all  these  things  will  be  added 
unto  you. 

I  was  pleased  with  this  young 
man  when  he  was  telling  what  his 
goals  are.  Now  he  has  set  those 
goals  with  a  certain  class  of  persons 
with  whom  he  wishes  to  associate. 
There  will  be  some  young  people  who 
will  listen  to  that  who  will  sneer.  But 
I  want  to  tell  those  young  people  that 
only  as  they  live  the  way  they  should 
will  they  enjoy  life.  Never  has  any 
person  at  any  time  found  joy  in  sin 
or  doing  that  which  is  wrong. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


52 

Saturday,  April  4 

"Have  a  Good  Time" 

I  have  a  little  story  that  I  have  told 
all  over  the  Church;  probably  most  of 
you  have  heard  it.  My  daughter  and 
her  girl  friend  were  at  our  house,  and 
they  were  going  to  a  party;  then  two 
young  men  came  and  called  for  them. 
I  sat  and  talked  to  them.  I  love  young 
people.  As  I  was  talking  to  them,  talk- 
ing about  different  things,  I  enjoyed  my 
visit  with  them,  and  just  before  they 
were  ready  to  go,  I  said,  "Now,  have  a 
good  time,  kids."  But  just  as  they  were 
going  out  of  the  door,  I  stepped  over  to 
my  daughter  and  said,  "Now,  be- 
have yourself." 

And  she  said,  "Well,  Dad,  make  up 
your  mind." 

And  I  said  to  those  young  people  so 
they  could  all  hear  me,  "Have  a  good 
time,  kids,  the  best  time  you  will  ever 
have  in  your  lives,  really  have  a  good 
time  tonight,  but  have  the  kind  of 
time,  such  a  good  time,  that  tomorrow, 
next  week,  a  month  from  now  or  a  year 
from  now,  ten  years  from  now,  you  can 
look  back  on  tonight  and  say,  'I  had  a 
good  time,'  and  have  nothing  to  regret 
or  be  sorry  about." 

And  I  think  they  went  and  had  a 
good  time. 

And  that  was  my  slogan  for  our  mis- 
sionaries in  the  West  European  Mis- 
sion— to  have  a  good  time.  One  young 
man,  after  I  had  been  talking  to  a  group 
of  missionaries  over  in  Germany,  came 
up  to  me  and  said,  "President  Tanner, 
I  don't  think  it's  right  for  you  to  tell 
these  missionaries  to  have  a  good  time 
because  the  only  way  they  can  do  it 
is  to  do  their  work." 

I  said,  "Go,  and  have  a  good  time." 
He  was  right. 

The  story  is  told  of  another  mission- 
ary over  there  who  was  discussing  the 
gospel  with  one  of  the  reverends,  and 
the  reverend  wasn't  making  the  progress 
that  he  thought  he  should,  and  finally 
he  turned  to  the  missionary  and  said, 
"Well,  at  least  you  will  agree  that  we 
are  both  trying  to  serve  the  Lord."  The 
missionary  looked  at  him  for  a  moment 
and  said,  "Yes,  I  think  I  would — you  in 
your  way,  and  I  in  his."  Now,  breth- 
ren, that  might  sound  impudent,  and 
maybe  it  was,  if  the  story  is  true.  But 
right  there  is  a  real  lesson  to  me. 


First  Day 

"Serve  the  Lord  in  His  Way" 

If  I  can  serve  the  Lord  in  his  way, 
and  I  am  saying  this  to  all  the  boys 
who  can  hear  me  wherever  they  may 
be  tonight,  then  I  am  going  along  the 
path  where  I  will  have  the  greatest 
success  and  the  greatest  joy,  if  I  can 
serve  him  in  his  way. 

Too  many  of  us,  probably  some  sit- 
ting here  tonight,  would  like  to  change 
the  rules,  and  would  like  to  serve  him 
in  our  way,  not  his  way.  Some  of  us 
wonder  why  we  have  to  go  to  church 
and  keep  the  Sabbath  day  holy.  Some 
of  us  wonder  about  paying  a  full  tithing. 
Some  of  us  wonder  about  the  Word 
of  Wisdom.  Some  of  us  wonder  about 
other  things — moral  living.  In  fact  a 
young  woman  came  to  me  the  other 
day  and  said,  "President  Tanner,  I  have 
tried  to  live  the  gospel  just  as  nearly 
as  I  could  possibly  live  it,  as  I  under- 
stand it.  I  am  a  little  older  now.  I  am 
a  teacher.  I  am  still  single.  But  I 
think  you  should  know  that  too  many 
of  our  young  men  today  are  saying, 
'Oh  what's  the  difference?  What  does 
it  matter?  That  is  a  lot  of  nonsense.' 
And  I  know  young  men  who  are  re- 
turned missionaries,  I  know  young 
men  who  come  from  some  of  the  best 
families  who  are  saying  the  same  thing." 

I  would  like  to  say  to  you  young 
people  tonight  that  such  an  attitude  is 
just  as  far  from  right  as  it  can  possibly 
be.  You  cannot  do  those  things  and 
enjoy  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  and  make 
progress  and  be  the  kind  of  person  who 
will  have  joy  in  your  future  life,  and 
the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  cannot  be  with 
you,  as  it  is  if  you  are  clean-living 
young  people. 

"The  Power  of  God" 

Let  us  never  be  ashamed  of  the  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  the  power 
of  God  unto  salvation  (see  Romans 
1:16),  and  let  us  never  hesitate  to  call 
upon  the  Lord  as  these  young  men  told 
us  tonight  that  we  should  do.  Stay  close 
to  the  Lord,  show  your  appreciation  of 
the  priesthood  that  you  hold.  Honor  that 
priesthood  and  thank  God  that  you  have 
the  priesthood.  Imagine  the  priesthood 
being  taken  away  from  you  tonight, 
any  young  man  or  any  older  man, 
because  you  are  not  prepared  to  live 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


53 


in  the  Lord's  way,  because  you  won't 
honor  and  respect  and  magnify  your 
priesthood. 

Brethren,  it  is  a  great  privilege  to 
magnify  the  priesthood,  and  to  do  the 
things  that  the  Lord  has  asked  us  to 
do,  and  as  you  do  them,  you  will  find 
joy  as  you  live  here,  and  you  will  be 
working  out  your  salvation  and  eter- 
nal life. 

A  Boy  Taught  by  Heavenly  Beings 

As  I  think  of  that  young  boy,  four- 
teen years  of  age,  I  would  like  you  to 
imagine  yourself  being  that  young  boy, 
when  he  went  into  the  grove  and 
prayed  to  his  Heavenly  Father,  and 
imagine  how  he  felt  when  God  the 
Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  ap- 
peared to  him  and  God  said,  "Joseph, 
this  is  my  beloved  Son,  hear  him."  (See 
Joseph  Smith  2:17.)  Now  that  young 
man  after  he  left  that  grove  was  left 
alone  for  three  years.  He  had  no 
bishop,  and  he  had  no  teacher.  He 
had  no  Sunday  School;  he  had  no  one 
except  his  family,  who  believed  in  him, 
to  help  him  live  according  to  the  knowl- 
edge that  he  had.  He  remained  true 
to  the  faith,  he  tried  to  serve  God,  and 
because  he  did,  he  proved  true  and 
worthy  to  accept  the  other  blessings 
that  the  Lord  had  in  store  for  him. 

This  young  man  referred  tonight  to 
John  the  Baptist  appearing,  and  I 
wonder  how  those  two  young  men, 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery,  felt 
then,  as  he  who  baptized  the  Savior 
came  and  placed  his  hands  upon  their 
heads  and  gave  them  the  priesthood; 
and  then  as  Peter,  James,  and  John, 
Christ's  senior  Apostles,  came  to  them. 
Brethren,  it  was  because  they  lived 
close  to  the  Lord.  They  asked  the 
Lord  for  guidance  and  sought  first  the 
kingdom  of  God  and  determined  to 
keep  his  commandments. 

Then,  as  I  see  that  same  young  man 
standing  up  there,  twenty-four  years  of 
age,  saying  to  those  who  were  associated 
with  him,  his  friends  and  neighbors, 
"The  Lord  has  chosen  me  and  ordained 
me  an  apostle,  a  prophet,  a  seer,  a  reve- 
lator,  and  president  of  His  Church  here 
upon  the  earth."  (DHC  1:75-79.) 

Brethren,  he  could  not  have  said  that 
if  the  Lord  had  not  chosen  him.  To 


that  point  he  had  received  the  priest- 
hood, the  Aaronic  and  the  Melchizedek; 
he  had  been  visited  by  the  Angel 
Moroni;  he  had  had  the  privilege  of 
translating  the  Book  of  Mormon  under 
direct  revelation,  and  he  gave  us  the 
priesthood  that  the  Lord  gave  to  him; 
and  he,  as  you  read  in  the  twentieth  and 
twenty-first  sections  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants,  told  the  people  what  the 
responsibilities  of  the  different  quo- 
rums of  the  priesthood  were,  how  trans- 
gression should  be  dealt  with,  how  to 
administer  the  Sacrament,  how  to  bap- 
tize, and  he  gave  the  prayers. 

Brethren,  he  was  inspired  of  the 
Lord.  There  is  no  question  about  it. 
And  when  we  think  of  his  receiving  the 
revelation  regarding  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, and  how  many  young  people  have 
ridiculed  that  Word  of  Wisdom  and 
said,  "You  are  old-fashioned;  every- 
body is  using  tobacco."  And  now  one 
hundred  years  later,  scientists  have 
proved  beyond  any  doubt  that  tobacco 
is  not  good  for  man.  It  is  harmful  and 
is  taking  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
people. 

"Be  Obedient" 

Brethren,  let  us  be  obedient  to  the 
Lord;  let  us  be  obedient  to  the  priest- 
hood. Let  us  magnify  our  calling  so 
that  it  can  magnify  us.  Let  us  not 
cheat  as  we  go  along  and  try  to  do  it 
halfway,  serve  in  our  way;  but  let  us 
serve  in  his. 

The  Folly  of  Cheating 

As  I  think  of  the  young  men  and  the 
older  men  who  do  this  part  way,  I 
think  they  are  cheating.  And  I  won- 
der "how  can  we  think  to  earn  a 
great  reward  if  we  now  shun  the  fight?" 
How  many  of  you  would  like  to  have  a 
doctor  diagnose  your  case,  if  it  were  a 
serious  case,  and  then  operate  on  you, 
if  he  were  one  who  cheated  his  way 
through  school?  How  many  of  you 
would  like  to  have  a  pilot  who  got  his 
flying  license  by  cheating  take  you  in 
one  of  these  big  jets  today?  How  many 
of  you  would  like  to  have  a  pharmacist 
who  cheated  prepare  your  prescription, 
given  by  a  doctor,  when  your  life  de- 
pended on  it? 

How  many  of  us  can  feel  that  we  are 


54 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  4 

safe  if  we  now  shun  the  fight  and  fail 
to  honor  our  priesthood  and  magnify 
the  calling  that  is  given  to  us? 

"Honest  with  Yourself" 

Brethren,  we  have  to  live  with  our- 
selves. I  have  a  little  poem  that  I 
would  like  to  read  to  you.  Keep  this 
in  mind: 

"I  have  to  live  with  myself,  and  so 
I  want  to  be  fit  for  myself  to  know, 
I  want  to  be  able,  as  days  go  by, 
Always  to  look  myself  straight  in  the 
eye; 

I  don't  want  to  stand,  with  the  setting 
sun, 

And  hate  myself  for  the  things  I've 
done. 

I  don't  want  to  keep  on  a  closet  shelf, 
A  lot  of  secrets  about  myself, 
And  fool  myself,  as  I  come  and  go, 
Into  thinking  that  nobody  else  will 
know 

The  kind  of  man  that  I  really  am; 
I  don't  want  to  dress  up  myself  in 
sham. 

"I  want  to  go  out  with  my  head  erect, 
I  want  to  deserve  all  men's  respect; 
But  here  in  the  struggle  for  fame  and 
pelf, 

I  want  to  be  able  to  like  myself. 
I  don't  want  to  look  at  myself  and  know 
That  I'm  bluster  and  bluff  and  empty 
show. 

"I  never  can  hide  myself  from  me; 
I  see  what  others  can  never  see; 


First  Day 

I  know  what  others  may  never  know; 
I  never  can  fool  myself,  and  so, 
Whatever  happens,  I  want  to  be 
Self-respecting  and  conscience  free." 

"Myself"— Edgar  A.  Guest 

(From  Collected  Verse  by  Edgar  A.  Guest. 
Copyright  Reilly  &  Lee.) 

Brethren,  it  is  a  great  privilege  to  hold 
the  priesthood  of  God.  You  are  the 
only  people  in  all  the  world  who  are 
given  the  privilege  to  speak  in  the  name 
of  the  Lord,  who  have  been  given  that 
authority.  I  plead  with  you  young  men 
to  live  so  that  you  can  enjoy  your  own 
self-respect,  the  respect  of  others,  and 
so  that  the  Lord  will  be  able  to  say, 
"There  is  a  young  man  that  I  can  de- 
pend on.  He  is  a  man  who  can  hold 
any  office  in  the  Church  and  be 
a  leader." 

Let  us  go  forward  this  night  and  al- 
ways, seeking  first  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  his  righteousness,  knowing  that  it 
will  bring  joy,  success,  and  all  things 
for  our  good.  This  is  my  prayer  for 
you,  as  I  bear  my  testimony  to  you  that 
this  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
the  priesthood  has  been  restored,  and 
we  are  privileged  to  hold  it,  which  is 
the  power  of  God  delegated  to  man  to 
act  in  his  stead.  May  we  all  be  worthy 
of  it  and  magnify  our  calling  that  it 
may  magnify  us,  I  ask  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown  will  now 
address  us. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Brethren,  I  feel  as  weak  and  hum- 
ble as  did  Brother  Plumb  when  he 
looked  out  at  this  vast  congregation  and 
imagined  all  of  you  out  there  who  are 
listening  in.  I  would  like  to  say  to 
these  young  men  by  way  of  encourage- 
ment that  if  they  will  continue,  as  they 
have  started,  to  respond  to  every  call 
made  of  them  to  stand  before  congre- 
gations for  the  next  sixty  years,  as  I 
have  been  doing,  at  the  end  of  that 
time  they  will  still  be  scared  to  death. 
These  young  men  have  instructed 


young  men  of  their  age  in  certain  ac- 
tivities and  held  up  to  them  certain 
ideals,  but  they  have  in  fact  been  talk- 
ing to  all  of  us.  Whatever  our  age, 
whatever  priesthood  we  hold,  whatever 
position  in  the  Church  we  may  occupy, 
these  simple  rules  of  conduct  apply 
to  us. 

Names  and  Their  Connotations 

Did  you  ever  wonder  what  men  think 
when  they  think  of  you.  Of  what  do 
you  think  when  I  say  the  words,  "George 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


55 


Washington"?  You  think  of  leadership 
and  honesty  and  honor.  Of  what  do 
you  think  when  I  say,  "Abraham  Lin- 
coln"? You  think  of  courage,  of  humil- 
ity, of  leadership.  Of  what  do  you 
think  when  I  say,  "Winston  Churchill"? 
You  think  of  one  gifted  with  oratory 
which  enables  him  to  weld  a  nation 
into  a  fighting  machine.  You  think 
of  one  with  an  underslung  jaw  and  a 
big  cigar,  but  you  get  an  idea,  and  you 
think  of  something  when  these  men's 
names  are  mentioned. 

I  ask  you  tonight,  "What  do  your 
friends  think  when  they  think  of  you?" 
If  they  do  not  think  accurately,  if  they 
know  something  that  would  cause  them 
to  be  ashamed  of  your  acquaintance- 
ship, you  can  change  it.  Whatever  a 
man  is  at  any  time  in  his  life  is  a  result 
of  all  the  past  thoughts  and  words  and 
deeds  that  have  come  into  his  life.  I 
am  thinking  tonight  in  terms  of  one  of 
the  problems  which  confronts  all  of  us, 
deacon,  teacher,  priest,  elder,  seventy, 
high  priest.  I  am  thinking  of  one  of  the 
problems  that  confronts  the  world  and 
is  being  introduced  among  us  at  an 
alarming  rate.  I  am  thinking  of  a  cer- 
tain course  of  conduct  which  is  malig- 
nant, dangerous,  death-dealing,  and 
contrary  to  the  law  of  God.  I  am  think- 
ing of  chastity,  or  its  opposite. 

Consecrated  Manliness 

Let  us  get  a  vision  of  consecrated 
manliness  and  then  conform  our  lives 
to  that  manliness  in  such  a  way  that 
we  will  never  yield  to  the  temptations 
that  would  lead  us  away  from  virtue 
and  honor  and  honesty  and  manliness. 
"He  who  profanes  the  source  of  life," 
someone  has  said,  "sins  against  that 
which  is  indispensable  to  the  very  ex- 
istence of  life."  Let  us  then  never 
forget  the  sanctity  of  life.  With  every 
gift  of  power  that  comes  to  us,  there 
comes  a  temptation  to  dishonor  it,  abuse 
it.  You  remember  when  Christ  was  on 
the  earth  the  adversary  tempted  him, 
tried  to  get  him  to  yield  to  the  tempta- 
tion to  use  his  power  to  get  bread 
when  he  had  been  fasting  for  such  a 
long  time,  and  the  Savior  reminded 
him  that  man  does  not  live  by  bread 
alone.  Satan  took  Christ  then  to  a 
height  on  the  pinnacle  of  the  temple 


and  tempted  him  to  show  his  power  and 
authority  by  casting  himself  down  and 
said  the  angels  would  hold  him  up. 
Jesus  resisted  that  temptation  to  abuse 
his  power.  Then  Satan  took  him  onto  a 
high  mountain  and  showed  him  all 
the  wealth  of  the  world  and  said,  "All 
this  I  will  give  to  thee  if  you  will  fall 
down  and  worship  me,"  and  Christ 
said,  "Get  thee  behind  me,  Satan." 
(See  Matt.  4:9-10  and  Luke  4:8.) 

Power — Uses  and  Abuses 

I  repeat,  with  every  gift  of  power 
comes  the  temptation  to  abuse  it.  Each 
man  has  within  himself  the  power  that 
can  destroy  him,  and  that  is  a  fact  that 
each  man  under  the  sound  of  my  voice 
tonight  should  keep  in  mind.  Each 
man  or  boy,  whatever  his  age  or  his 
station  in  life,  is  subject  to  the  tempta- 
tion to  destroy  himself  by  reason  of  a 
God-given  power  which  all  of  us  have. 
All  of  us  who  know  good  sometimes 
feel  within  ourselves  the  possibility  of 
evil,  and  while  we  may  condemn  sin- 
cerely and  without  any  hypocrisy  the 
evil  in  us,  we  are  conscious  that  at 
times  we  ourselves  are  tempted  to  do 
the  very  thing  we  hate,  and  in  doing 
it  we  hate  ourselves  as  well  as  the  thing 
we  do.  I  think  this  caused  Paul  to 
admit,  ".  .  .  the  good  that  I  would  I 
do  not:  but  the  evil  which  I  would  not, 
that  I  do."  (Rom.  7:19.) 

Real  character  is  formed  in  the  midst 
of  the  battles  for  the  soul.  Christ  of- 
fered peace,  not  in  the  sense  of  freedom 
from  disturbance,  but  in  the  midst  of 
disturbance.  What  we  need  is  to  de- 
velop within  ourselves  the  kind  of  self- 
control  that  will  enable  us,  in  the  midst 
of  disturbance,  to  find  the  peace  that 
comes  into  the  soul  of  a  man  who  is 
living  as  he  knows  he  ought  to  live. 

Charles  Wagner  said,  "Why  shrink 
from  responsibility?  Can  we  buy  this 
great  honour  at  too  dear  a  price  .  .  .  ? 
Do  you  know  what  degradation  means 
to  a  soldier?  It  is  to  see  his  rank,  his 
decorations,  his  epaulets,  torn  from 
him;  to  see  these  signs  of  his  former 
value  thrown  at  his  feet!  What  is 
death  in  comparison  with  this  dis- 
honour? It  is  true  that  in  the  future 
this  unfortunate  soldier  can  sleep;  he 
will  never  again  mount  guard;  he  will 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


56 

Saturday,  April  4 

no  longer  cry,  'to  arms;  here  is  the 
enemy!'  he  will  never  again  make  an 
assault  nor  hear  the  bullets  whistling 
round  him.  .  .  .  Very  well;  to  declare 
that  a  man  is  irresponsible  is  to  degrade 
him  I  Death  were  better."  (Wagner, 
Charles,  Courage,  Dodd,  Mead,  and 
Co.  New  York,  1904,  pp.  73-74.) 

Power  of  Purity 

And  so  I  repeat,  my  plea  to  the  men 
of  the  priesthood  of  the  Church  is  to 
keep  yourselves  clean.  Older  men  are 
yielding  to  temptation,  to  sin.  Younger 
men  are  struggling  with  themselves.  It 
is  difficult  sometimes  for  them  to  un- 
derstand themselves  because  this  God- 
given  power  of  procreation  carries  with 
it  a  power  of  destruction.  But  it  has, 
because  of  its  life-giving  nature,  the 
possibilities  of  the  greatest  glory  and 
joy  that  can  come  to  a  living  soul.  I 
believe  that  every  man  who  is  tempted 
to  sin,  to  commit  adultery,  to  become 
unclean  in  his  habits,  should  examine 
himself  and  see  whether  he  is  harbor- 
ing things  that  will  destroy  him. 

I  would  like  to  leave  with  you  to- 
night an  appeal — especially  to  you  stake 
presidents,  high  councilmen,  bishops 
and  counselors,  heads  of  quorums,  all 
in  presiding  positions — I  would  like  to 
leave  a  plea  that  you  get  closer  to  your 
young  people — and  older  people — under 
your  jurisdiction  and  teach  them  the 
beauty  of  purity  and  let  them  know  that 
purity  is  power.  Sometimes  some  of  us 
get  the  idea  that  certain  people  are  not 
worth  our  attention.  They  have  gone 
beneath  and  beyond  what  we  thought 
to  be  worth  saving.  I  would  like  to  give 
you  one  little  story  to  illustrate  how 
sometimes  we  misjudge  one  another, 
and  sometimes  we  are  guilty  of  assuming 
that  the  one  we  are  thinking  of  is  not 
as  good  as  we. 

Find  Good  in  Men 

It  was  during  World  War  I.  We 
had  a  man  in  our  regiment  who  was  as 
tough  as  any  man  in  the  regiment;  he 
was  known  as  the  unsentimental  cuss; 
he  was  the  kind  of  man  that  nobody 
liked.  We  thought  he  had  no  sense  of 
emotion  or  of  sympathy  or  of  under- 
standing. He  could  see  his  comrades 
shot  down  by  his  side  and  never  bat 


First  Dau 

an  eye,  and  we  didn't  think  he  had 
in  him  anything  that  would  indicate 
that  he  had  any  sentiment  at  all.  I  was 
guilty  of  saying  in  my  heart,  though 
I  think  I  didn't  speak  it  out  loud,  "I 
thank  thee,  God,  that  I  am  not  like  that 
man."  (See  Luke  18:11.)  There  was 
another  Pharisee  once  who  said  that, 
and  this  time  I  was  the  Pharisee. 

We  were  in  France.  This  man  was 
called  on  duty  to  examine  the  mail, 
incoming  and  outgoing  mail.  (That  is 
quite  an  interesting  job;  you  read  some 
very  interesting  letters.  For  instance,  I 
remember  reading  a  letter  from  a  young 
fellow  to  his  girl,  it  was  undoubtedly 
very  sincere,  in  which  he  told  her  of 
the  good  time  he  was  having  and  how 
he  missed  her  and  how  he  loved  her. 
Then,  undoubtedly,  he  was  called  sud- 
denly to  duty,  because  he  said,  "I  am 
feeling  fine,  but  I  am  as  lousy  as  a 
pet  coon,"  and  then  underneath  he 
scribbled,  "Hoping  this  finds  you  the 
same.") 

Well  this  unsentimental  cuss  was  on 
duty  reading  mail,  and  he  read  a  cer- 
tain letter,  a  letter  from  a  Mrs.  Jock 
Anderson  out  in  London,  Ontario, 
Canada.  She  was  writing  to  her  beloved 
Jock,  and  she  said  to  him,  "We  are 
getting  on  all  right,  my  dear.  The  ten 
little  bairns  are  coming  along.  I  have 
had  to  wean  the  baby  because  I  have 
to  work  to  support  the  others,  but  we 
are  mighty  proud  of  you  and  proud  of 
where  you  are.  But,  Jock,  dear,  our 
neighbor  three  months  ago  received 
word  that  her  husband  was  missing. 
She  said  she  had  rather  heard  he  was 
dead — she  said  she  could  hardly  stand 
the  uncertainty  of  it."  And  then  she 
added,  "Jock,  my  dear,  join  with  me 
and  pray  God  that  I  may  never  get 
word  that  you  are  missing." 

This  unsentimental  officer  read  that 
letter  but  said  nothing  about  it.  That 
night  there  was  paraded  before  him  a 
sergeant  and  six  men  who  were  going 
out  into  no-man's  land.  They  called 
the  roll;  the  officer  heard  the  name  of 
Jock  Anderson  among  those  who  were 
going  out.  They  went  out,  and  in 
the  morning  the  sergeant  and  three  men 
came  back.  Again  they  called  the  roll, 
and  Jock  Anderson  did  not  answer. 
The  officer  said  to  the  sergeant,  "Do 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


57 


you  know  where  Jock  Anderson  fell?" 

The  sergeant  replied,  "Yes,  sir,  he 
fell  on  an  elevation  on  which  is  trained 
the  enemy's  machine  gun." 

The  officer  asked,  "Do  you  think  a 
man  could  go  out  to  that  body  and  get 
the  identification  disc  off  his  neck?" 

To  which  the  sergeant  answered,  "Sir, 
it  would  be  absolute  suicide,  but  if  you 
say  so  I  will  try." 

Then  the  officer  said,  "I  didn't  mean 
that.    I  just  wanted  to  know." 

You  know  in  World  War  I  you  could 
not  declare  a  man  dead  unless  you  could 
produce  his  body  or  his  identification 
disc.  That  night  that  unsentimental 
officer  was  missing,  and  the  next  morn- 
ing there  came  up  to  the  front  lines  a 
large  regimental  envelope.  When  it 
was  opened,  there  fell  out  an  identifi- 
cation disc  with  the  name  of  Jock 
Anderson  on  it  and  a  short  note  said, 
"Dear  Major:  I  am  enclosing  the  identi- 
fication disc  of  Jock  Anderson.  Please 
write  to  Mrs.  Anderson  in  London,  On- 
tario, Canada,  and  tell  her  God  heard 
her  prayer — her  husband  is  not  missing." 

That  was  the  man  of  whom  I  had 
said,  "I  thank  thee,  God,  that  I  am  not 
like  him."  He  had  the  courage  which  I 


never  had  to  crawl  out  on  his  stomach 
in  the  face  of  almost  certain  death  in 
order  to  bring  to  a  woman  he  had 
never  seen,  3000  miles  away,  the  poor 
comfort  that  her  husband  was  not 
missing. 

And  on  the  bottom  of  his  letter  he 
wrote,  as  though  it  didn't  amount  to 
much,  "As  for  me,  I  am  off  for  blighty 
in  the  morning.  The  doctor  says  it  is 
an  amputation  case  and  may  prove 
fatal.  Cheerio." 

Since  that  experience  I  have  tried  to 
believe  that  every  man  has  something 
in  him  worth  saving.  Let  us  go  out 
and  help  the  boys  and  the  men  who 
are  not  active.  Let  us  find  the  good  in 
them  and  bring  them  into  activity,  and 
in  the  course  of  all  that  we  do,  let  us 
keep  ourselves  pure  and  unspotted  from 
the  sins  of  the  world.  I  leave  you  my 
testimony  and  my  blessing  and  ask 
God  to  be  with  all  who  are  in  this 
building  and  you  other  thousands  out 
there  tonight.  Make  a  resolution  as 
these  young  men  have  pleaded  for  us 
to  do,  ".  .  .  as  for  me  and  my  house,  we 
will  serve  the  Lord."  (Josh.  24:15.)  God 
bless  you,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


We  have  the  following  telegram  from 
Eugene  K.  Mangum,  first  counselor  in 
the  Phoenix  West  Stake:  "At  Phoenix, 
Arizona,  590  priesthood  holders  thrilled 
at  messages  over  direct  wire."  Thou- 
sands can  say  the  same. 

I  had  in  mind  saying  a  word  sug- 
gested by  a  visit  to  two  fathers  in  this 
room — the  two  fathers  of  these  two 
boys  who  have  done  so  well  tonight, 
and  the  pride  in  their  sons  which  they 
had,  the  pride  which  every  father  has 
in  his  sons.  My  object  in  doing  this 
was  to  make  boys  feel  the  responsibility 
of  sonship. 

Instead  of  referring  to  that,  however, 
I  am  going  to  follow  the  thought  men- 
tioned by  Brother  Brown  of  keeping 
your  manhood  clean  and  unsullied.  I 
do  not  know  whether  I  can  remember 
the  lines  or  not,  but  I  shall  just  refer 
to  them  and  leave  the  reason  of  it  to 
each  of  you. 


I  said  I  would  have  my  fling, 

And  do  what  a  young  man  may: 
And  I  didn't  believe  a  thing 

That  the  parsons  had  to  say. 
I  didn't  believe  in  a  God 

That  gives  us  blood  like  fire, 
Then  flings  us  into  hell  because 

We  answer  the  call  of  desire. 

And  I  said  "religion  is  rot," 

And  the  laws  of  the  world  are  nil; 
For  the  bad  man  is  he  who  is  caught 

And  cannot  foot  his  bill. 
And  there  is  no  place  called  hell: 

And  heaven  is  only  a  truth, 
When  a  man  has  his  way  with  a  maid, 

In  the  fresh  keen  hour  of  youth. 

And  the  money  can  buy  us  grace, 
If  it  rings  on  the  plate  of  the  church; 

And  money  can  neatly  erase, 
Each  sign  of  a  sinful  smirch. 

For  I  saw  men  everywhere, 
Hot-footing  the  road  of  vice! 


58 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

And  women  and  preachers  smiled  on 
them 

As  long  as  they  paid  the  price. 

So  I  had  my  joy  of  life: 

I  went  the  pace  of  the  town: 
And  then  I  took  me  a  wife, 

And  started  to  settle  down. 
I  had  gold  enough  and  to  spare 

For  all  of  the  simple  joys 
That  belong  with  a  house  and  a  home 

And  a  brood  of  girls  and  boys. 

I  married  a  girl  with  health 
And  virtue  and  spotless  fame 

I  gave  in  exchange  my  wealth 
And  a  proud  old  family  name. 

And  I  gave  her  the  love  of  a  heart 
Grown  sated  and  sick  of  sin. 

My  deal  with  the  devil  was  all  cleaned 
up. 

And  the  last  bill  handed  in. 

She  was  going  to  bring  me  a  child, 

And  when  in  anguish  she  cried, 
With  love  and  fear  I  was  wild — 

But  now  I  wish  she  had  died. 
For  the  son  she  bore  me  was  blind 

And  crippled  and  weak  and  sore! 
And  mother  was  left  a  wreck. 

It  was  so  she  had  settled  my  score. 

I  said  I  must  have  my  fling, 

And  they  knew  the  path  I  would  go; 
But  no  one  told  me  a  thing 

Of  what  I  needed  to  know. 
Folks  talk  too  much  of  a  soul 

From  heavenly  joys  debarred — 


Second  Dan 

But  not  enough  of  the  babes  unborn, 
By  the  sins  of  their  father  scarred. 

("The  Price  He  Paid"  by  Ella 
Wheeler  Wilcox. — Courtesy  Rand  Mc- 
Nally  &  Company.) 

Men  and  boys  of  the  priesthood,  every 
member,  the  admonition  of  the  Lord  is 
".  .  .  be  ye  clean,  that  bear  the  vessels 
of  the  Lord."  (Isa.  52:11.) 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Chorus  will  sing,  "The  Lord 
Bless  You  and  Keep  You." 

The  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Victor  G.  Hancock,  formerly 
president  of  the  Central  American  Mis- 
sion. We  shall  then  be  adjourned  until 
ten  o'clock  tomorrow  morning. 

As  thousands  leave  this  great  Priest- 
hood Meeting  tonight  let  us  keep  in 
mind  the  admonition  that  is  con- 
stantly being  given  us  to  drive  care- 
fully. Please  obey  traffic  rules.  Cour- 
tesy and  patience  must  be  shown  by 
drivers  in  the  city  and  on  the  highways. 

Selection  by  the  Men  of  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir,  "The  Lord  Bless  You  And 
Keep  You." 

Elder  Victor  C.  Hancock,  formerly 
President  of  the  Central  American  Mis- 
sion, offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10:00  a.m. 
Sunday. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  Sunday  morning  session  of  the 
Conference  convened  at  10:00  a.m.,  im- 
mediately following  the  conclusion  of 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broadcast  pro- 
gram, which  was  presented  from  9:35  to 
10:00  a.m.  (See  pages  140  to  141  for  a 
full  report  of  this  broadcast). 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  in  attend- 
ance and  furnished  the  music  for  this 
session.  Richard  P.  Condie  conducted 
the  singing;  Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the 
great  Tabernacle  Organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay  who  pre- 
sided and  conducted  the  services  made 
the  following  introductory  remarks: 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

It  is  a  glorious  privilege  to  welcome 
all  present  this  morning  in  the  Taber- 
nacle, the  Assembly  Hall,  together  with 
the  vast  television  and  radio  audience 
assembled  in  this  the  fourth  session  of 
the  one  hundred  and  thirty-fourth  An- 
nual Conference  of  the  Church.  We 
are  pleased  to  note  our  representatives 
from  Congress,  the  Mayor,  Presidents  of 
Stakes,  Secretary  of  State,  Governor,  in 
this  vast  audience. 

The  invocation  will  be  offered  by 
President  Reed  Bullen  of  the  Utah 
State  University  Stake. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


59 


The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
Reed  Bullen,  President  of  the  Utah 
State  University  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
Elder  Reed  Bullen,  president  of  the 
Utah  State  University  Stake.  The  Tab- 
ernacle Choir  will  now  sing,  "America 
the  Beautiful." 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  song, 
"America,  the  Beautiful." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

That  was  glorious!  May  we  ever 
cherish  the  ideals  for  which  our  coun- 
try stands — freedom  of  speech,  freedom 
of  action  within  boundaries  that  do  not 
infringe  upon  the  liberty  of  others,  all 
of  which  are  man's  inherent  rights 
granted  by  his  Creator — divine  gifts 
essential  to  human  dignity  and  human 
happiness. 

Our  first  speaker  this  morning  will  be 
President  Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  sec- 
ond counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 
of  the  Church. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  it  is  a 
blessed  privilege  to  be  able  to  partici- 
pate with  you  this  beautiful  Sabbath 
morning  in  this  inspirational  confer- 
ence, where  yesterday  we  heard  the 
stirring  message  of  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent, which  was  an  inspiration  to  all 
of  us,  and  where  we  were  edified  by 
other  General  Authorities. 

In  this  historic  building  we  have  held 
these  inspiring  conferences  for  nearly 
one  hundred  years,  where  the  Saints 
have  been  instructed  in  the  ways  of  the 
Lord  and  inspired  to  better  living;  and 
here  this  famous  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir  has  sung  for  over  sixty  years  its 
songs  of  glory,  influencing  the  lives  of 
people  throughout  the  whole  of  this 
continent  and  in  many  countries  of  the 
world.  We  all  enjoy  their  beautiful 
singing  and  acknowledge  with  gratitude 
the  great  contribution  they  make  to 
our  conferences. 

All  of  us  assembled  here  today  wish 
to  welcome  you  who  are  listening  in. 
We  send  you  greetings  and  pray  God's 
choicest  blessings  to  attend  you.  In  all 
humility  and  with  a  feeling  of  love  I 
should  like  to  address  my  remarks  to 
you  this  morning.  I  should  like  to 
quote  and  enlarge  on  two  or  three  of 
our  Articles  of  Faith  and  explain  what 
we  believe  and  particularly  what  sets 
us  apart  from  the  rest  of  the  world. 

Before  doing  so,  however,  I  should 
like  to  refer  briefly  to  that  holy  event, 
the  greatest  event  in  the  history  of 


mankind,  the  crucifixion  and  resurrec- 
tion of  our  Savior  Jesus  Christ,  who 
willingly  gave  his  life  for  you  and  me, 
and  which  event  was  commemorated 
last  week  in  song,  prayer,  and  worship 
throughout  the  Christian  world. 

It  reminds  us  that  ".  .  .  God  so  loved 
the  world,  that  he  gave  his  only  be- 
gotten Son,  that  whosoever  believeth 
in  him  should  not  perish,  but  have 
everlasting  life."  (John  3:16.) 

And  as  he  said:  "For  behold,  this  is 
my  work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to 
pass  the  immortality  and  eternal  life 
of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

He  invited  us  to  pray  to  him  in  these 
words  by  James:  "If  any  of  you  lack 
wisdom,  let  him  ask  of  God,  that  giveth 
to  all  men  liberally,  and  upbraideth  not; 
and  it  shall  be  given  him."  (James  1:5.) 

And  he  left  us  with  this  commitment: 

"I,  the  Lord,  am  bound  when  ye  do 
what  I  say;  but  when  ye  do  not  what 
I  say,  ye  have  no  promise."  (D&C 
82:10.) 

The  Articles  of  Faith  which  I  wish 
to  discuss  briefly  are: 

"We  believe  " 

1.  We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost. 

3.  We  believe  that  through  the 
Atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel. 

8.  We  believe  the  Bible  to  be  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


60 

Sunday,  April  5 

word  of  God  as  far  as  it  is  translated 
correctly;  we  also  believe  the  Book  of 
Mormon  to  be  the  word  of  God. 

9.  We  believe  all  that  God  has  re- 
vealed, all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and 
we  believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God. 

In  God 

The  God  we  believe  in  is  a  Living 
God  with  body,  parts,  and  passions,  in 
whose  image  we  were  made,  who  is  the 
Father  of  the  spirits  of  all  mankind, 
and  under  whose  direction  the  world 
was  created  and  all  things  therein.  He 
is  a  Loving  Father,  who  is  interested 
in  us  and  our  welfare  and  who  stands 
ready  to  answer  our  call  if  we  will 
but  go  to  him. 

In  the  Son  of  God 

We  believe  that  Jesus  Christ  is  liter- 
ally the  Son  of  God,  the  Only  Begotten 
in  the  flesh;  that  he  was  born  of  mortal 
mother;  that  he  dwelt  among  men; 
that  he  gave  man  the  plan  of  life  and 
salvation;  that  he  was  crucified,  and 
that  he  had  power  over  death  and  will- 
ingly gave  his  life  and  was  literally 
resurrected  so  that  man  might  be  saved 
and  resurrected  from  the  dead  and  en- 
joy eternal  life. 

"For  since  by  man  came  death,  by 
man  came  also  the  resurrection  of  the 
dead. 

"For  as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in 
Christ  shall  all  be  made  alive."  (1  Cor. 
15:21-22.  Italics  added.) 

In  the  Atonement 

And,  "We  believe  that  through  the 
atonement  of  Christ,  all  mankind  may 
be  saved,  by  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  Gospel."  (Third  Arti- 
cle of  Faith.) 

Belief  in  Christ  is  not  sufficient,  but 
obedience  to  his  laws  is  essential  to 
salvation  and  exaltation,  for,  as  re- 
corded in  Matthew  7:21,  Christ  him- 
self said:  "Not  every  one  that  saith  unto 
me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter  into  the 
kingdom  of  heaven;  but  he  that  doeth 
the  will  of  my  Father,  which  is  in 
heaven." 

And  again:  "Jesus  answered,  Verily, 
verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a  man 


Second  Day 

be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit,  he 
cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God." 
(John  3:5.) 

And  then,  as  recorded  in  Revelation: 
"And  I  saw  the  dead,  small  and  great, 
stand  before  God;  .  .  . 

"And  they  were  judged  every  man 
according  to  their  works."  (Rev. 
20:12-13.) 

The  Bible 

Also,  we  believe  the  Bible  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon  to  be  the  word  of 
God,  and  we  believe  that  they  contain 
records  of  revelations  which  God  gave 
directly  to  his  prophets  in  the  differ- 
ent dispensations  of  the  gospel.  In  fact, 
as  stated  in  our  ninth  article  of  faith: 
"We  believe  all  that  God  has  revealed, 
all  that  He  does  now  reveal,  and  we 
believe  that  He  will  yet  reveal  many 
great  and  important  things  pertaining 
to  the  Kingdom  of  God." 

It  is  this  belief  more  than  any  other 
that  sets  us  apart  from  the  rest  of  the 
world.  Protestant  churches,  as  you  all 
know,  were  formed  at  the  beginning 
of,  and  during  the  period  of,  the 
Reformation  and  resulted  from  the  fact 
that  many  people  were  dissatisfied  with 
the  teachings  and  practices  of  the 
dominant  church,  which  they  claimed 
had  transgressed  the  laws,  changed  the 
ordinances,  and  broken  the  everlasting 
covenant,  and  therefore  had  apostatized. 

The  Protestant  churches,  therefore, 
were  established  by  men  who  were 
courageous  enough  to  take  a  stand  and 
risk  their  lives,  and  some  of  them  even 
gave  their  lives,  in  an  endeavor  to  cor- 
rect the  malpractices  with  which  you 
are  all  so  well-acquainted. 

I  have  not  the  time  nor  the  inclina- 
tion to  go  into  any  details  about  the 
malpractices  or  the  Reformation.  I  do 
say,  however,  that  these  Protestant 
churches  were  formed  and  organized  by 
men  who  were  dissatisfied  with  and 
protested  against  these  malpractices. 
Though  they  were  good  men  with  high 
ideals  and  the  best  of  intent,  they  did 
not  claim  any  divine  revelation  or  di- 
rect authority  from  God  to  organize 
their  different  sects.  In  fact,  they 
claimed  that  there  were  no  such  things 
as  visions  or  revelations  in  these  days: 
that  all  such  things  had  ceased  with 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


61 


the  Apostles,  and  that  there  would 
never  be  any  more  of  them.  On  the 
other  hand,  Joseph  Smith  the  founder 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints,  claimed  that  he  was 
called  by  revelation  and  given  divine 
authority  direct  from  God  and  Jesus 
Christ  and  had  received  the  keys  of  the 
priesthood  under  the  hands  of  Peter, 
James,  and  John. 

The  Bible  Reveals  the  Will  of  God 

Throughout  the  history  of  mankind, 
from  Adam  down  to  the  present  time, 
God  has  revealed  his  will  to  his  chosen 
prophets;  for,  as  Amos  the  Prophet 
taught:  "Surely  the  Lord  God  will  do 
nothing,  but  he  revealeth  his  secret  unto 
his  servants  the  prophets."  (Amos  3:7.) 

As  we  look  back  over  the  history  of 
God's  dealings  with  his  people  and 
read  the  revelations  which  he  gave  to 
his  prophets  to  guide  and  direct  them 
and  prepare  them  for  the  future,  we 
cannot  help  marveling  at  the  continued 
interest  he  has  shown  in  his  people 
and  the  patience  he  has  shown  and  the 
care  that  he  has  taken  to  see  that  they 
were  continually  directed  in  the  paths 
of  truth  and  righteousness,  if  they 
would  but  listen  to  his  holy  prophet 
through  whom  he  was  speaking. 

As  we  read  the  Old  Testament  we 
realize  that  he  revealed  his  will  to 
Adam,  to  Seth,  to  Enoch,  to  Noah,  to 
Abraham,  Jacob,  Moses,  and  Isaiah,  and 
all  the  prophets  down  to  Zechariah  and 
Malachi,  as  they  are  recorded  therein. 

The  Bible  testifies  that  revelation 
began  with  Adam  and  Eve,  who  heard 
the  voice  of  the  Lord  God  while  walk- 
ing in  the  garden.  (Gen.  3:8.)  God 
revealed  to  Adam  his  origin,  the  pur- 
pose of  mortality,  his  future  destiny, 
and  the  requirements  for  exaltation. 
He  also  gave  direction  in  solving  the 
special  problems  of  his  dispensation. 
Though  the  gospel  plan  has  remained 
the  same  from  the  beginning,  important 
truths  have  been  abandoned  and  for- 
gotten, and  therefore  it  has  been  neces- 
sary from  time  to  time  for  God  to  raise 
up  prophets  to  restore  the  gospel  truths, 
to  testify  to  the  people,  and  to  instruct 
them  in  righteousness.  Also,  each  dis- 
pensation faced  different  problems,  and 


therefore  continuous  revelation  was 
necessary  to  cope  with  them. 

I  have  always  been  impressed  with 
the  way  Moses  was  protected  and  pre- 
served by  the  Lord,  who  had  chosen 
him  and  through  direct  revelation  pre- 
pared and  directed  him  day  by  day  as 
to  what  he  should  do  and  how  he 
should  prepare  to  lead  the  children  of 
Israel  out  of  bondage  and  out  of  Egypt; 
how  the  Lord  personally  instructed 
Moses  how  to  deal  with  Pharaoh  and 
how,  through  God's  commands,  plagues 
were  imposed  and  withdrawn  by  the 
Lord;  how  the  Lord  protected  them 
as  they  crossed  the  Red  Sea;  and  how  he 
continued  to  lead  and  guide  and  direct 
them  as  long  as  they  were  prepared  to 
listen  to  the  prophet  and  follow 
his  instruction. 

It  was  Moses  to  whom  the  Lord,  by 
direct  revelation,  gave  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments as  a  set  of  rules  by  which 
the  people  should  govern  their  lives. 
These  remain  today  as  much  the  word 
of  the  Lord  as  at  any  other  time  and 
apply  equally  to  the  people  in  these, 
the  latter  days.  Yet,  while  he  was 
receiving  these  commandments  directly 
from  the  Lord,  the  people,  whom  he  had 
led  out  of  bondage  and  whom  the  Lord 
had  taught  through  him,  turned  away 
from  the  true  God  and  began  to  wor- 
ship idols. 

The  Bible  is  replete  in  both  the  Old 
and  New  Testaments,  with  records  of 
revelations  given  by  God  to  his  chosen 
prophets.  God  has  always  stood  ready 
to  lead  and  direct  his  people  if  they 
would  but  listen  to  his  word. 

The  Book  of  Mormon 

As  recorded  in  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
Lehi  was  warned  that  Jerusalem  would 
be  destroyed,  and  he  was  advised  to 
take  his  family  and  leave.  As  he  lis- 
tened to  the  voice  of  the  Lord  and 
followed  his  instructions,  he  and  his 
family  were  led  out  of  the  city  to 
safety  and  into  the  new  world,  later 
to  be  known  as  America,  while  they 
who  remained  were  destroyed  or  taken 
into  captivity. 

While  the  prophets  in  the  old  land 
were  receiving  revelations  from  God, 
the  people  of  Lehi  on  this,  the  American 
continent,  were  not  left  without  guid- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


62 

Sunday,  April  5 

ance.  Prophets  were  raised  up  through 
whom  God  spoke  and  directed  his 
people  in  all  their  doings  as  they  would 
listen.  He  revealed  to  them  also,  600 
years  before  Christ's  coming,  that  he 
would  come,  that  he  was  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  that  he  would  be  perse- 
cuted and  crucified,  and  that  he  would 
be  resurrected. 

This  was  foretold  clearly  by  Lehi, 
Nephi,  Alma,  and  others,  including 
Samuel,  to  whom  it  had  been  revealed 
the  exact  time  that  Jesus  Christ  would 
be  born.  They  were  told  of  the  signs 
which  would  be  shown  on  this,  the 
American  continent,  at  the  time  of 
Christ's  birth  and  crucifixion.  Every 
word  which  had  been  revealed  to  them 
regarding  these  events  was  fulfilled. 
Following  his  crucifixion  Christ  ap- 
peared personally  to  the  people  on  this, 
the  American  continent,  and  taught 
them  the  truths  of  the  gospel. 

Many  of  the  revelations  recorded  in 
the  Old  and  New  Testaments,  as  well 
as  in  the  Book  of  Mormon,  refer  most 
clearly  to  these,  the  latter  days.  Some 
of  these  are  not  generally  understood 
by  the  world  and  can  only  be  under- 
stood through  revelations  which  were 
received  in  these,  the  latter  days,  by 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  One  exam- 
ple of  these  is  that  of  John  the  Revelator 
who,  when  looking  into  the  future,  said: 

Another  Angel 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Rev.  14:6-7.) 

This  revelation  was  fulfilled  and 
clearly  understood  when  the  Angel 
Moroni  did  fly  in  the  midst  of  heaven 
and  appeared  to  Joseph  Smith  and  told 
him  of  the  plates  which  contained  the 
gospel  in  its  fulness.  Joseph  said  that 
as  the  Angel  Moroni  appeared  to  him, 
he  called  him  by  name  and,  told  him 
that  ".  .  .  there  was  a  book  deposited, 
written  upon  gold  plates,  giving  an  ac- 


Second  Day 

count  of  the  former  inhabitants  of  this 
continent,  and  the  source  from  whence 
they  sprang.  He  also  said  that  the  ful- 
ness of  the  everlasting  Gospel  was 
contained  in  it,  as  delivered  by  the 
Savior  to  the  ancient  inhabitants." 
(Joseph  Smith  2:34.) 

The  Gospel  Restored 

Thus  we  know  that  the  angel,  as 
predicted  or  prophesied  by  John  the 
Revelator,  has  flown;  that  this  great 
and  glorious  gospel  has  been  restored 
in  its  fulness  by  the  Lord  through  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  to  be  preached 
to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue,  and 
people. 

Another  revelation  recorded  in  the 
Old  Testament  which  refers  to  these, 
the  latter  days,  and  has  reference  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  is  that  received  by 
Ezekiel  wherein  he  says: 

"The  word  of  the  Lord  came  again 
unto  me,  saying, 

"Moreover,  thou  son  of  man,  take 
thee  one  stick,  and  write  upon  it,  For 
Judah,  and  for  the  children  of  Israel 
his  companions:  then  take  another  stick, 
and  write  upon  it,  For  Joseph,  the  stick 
of  Ephraim,  and  for  all  the  house  of 
Israel  his  companions: 

"And  join  them  one  to  another  into 
one  stick;  and  they  shall  become  one 
in  thine  hand."  (Ezek.  37:15-17.) 

As  I  read  this,  I  went  to  the  Inter- 
preter's Bible,  which  is  written  in  twelve 
volumes,  and  is  a  commentary  on  all 
of  the  Old  and  New  Testaments.  This 
commentary  was  prepared  by  thirty-six 
consulting  editors  with  over  one  hun- 
dred recognized,  capable  contributors, 
and  deals  with  all  quotations  from  the 
Bible,  taking  them  verse  by  verse  and 
explaining  their  meaning  and  applica- 
tion. When  I  came  to  Ezekiel,  37th 
chapter,  verses  15  through  17,  which  I 
have  just  read,  no  feasible  explanation 
was  given,  but  conjectures  only  were 
made.  This  is  no  reflection  on  the 
editors  or  contributors  to  this  great 
commentary,  as  they  knew  of  no  way 
to  get  the  meaning. 

Here  again,  by  direct  revelation  and 
by  direct  revelation  only,  do  we  under- 
stand clearly  what  Ezekiel  meant.  Here, 
the  stick  of  Judah  as  referred  to  is  the 
Bible,  and  the  stick  of  Ephraim,  which 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


63 


is  written  for  Joseph  and  all  the  house 
of  Israel  his  companions,  is  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  Through  the  power  of  God 
and  by  direct  revelation,  this  Book  of 
Mormon,  which  contains  the  gospel  in 
its  fulness,  was  translated,  and  it  with 
the  Bible,  became  "one  in  thine  hand." 
How  clear  and  simple  the  words  of 
Ezekiel  become  if  we  will  but  listen 
to  the  prophet's  voice! 

Then  again,  Malachi  records  a  reve- 
lation which  refers  to  these,  the  latter 
days,  wherein  the  Lord  said:  "For,  be- 
hold, the  day  cometh,  that  shall  burn 
as  an  oven;  and  all  the  proud,  yea,  and 
all  that  do  wickedly,  shall  be  stub- 
ble." (Mai.  4:1.) 

And  then  he  said:  "Behold,  I  will 
send  you  Elijah  the  prophet  before  the 
coming  of  the  great  and  dreadful  day 
of  the  Lord: 

"And  he  shall  turn  the  heart  of  the 
fathers  to  the  children,  and  the  heart 
of  the  children  to  their  fathers,  lest  I 
come  and  smite  the  earth  with  a  curse." 
(Ibid.,  4:5-6.) 

Again  I  went  to  the  Interpreter's 
Bible  to  see  what  they  had  to  say  about 
this  passage,  and  though  it  had  been  in 
the  Jewish  scriptures  for  centuries,  they 
did  not  understand  it,  and  therefore 
were  unable  to  explain  its  meaning. 

I  do  not  mention  this  to  belittle  in 
any  way  this  very  complete  and 
thought-provoking  commentary,  but  to 
point  out  that  the  full  meaning  and 
impact  of  this  prophecy  and  promise 
could  in  no  wise  be  understood  until 
Elijah  himself  actually  appeared  to 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in 
1836. 

Appearances  of  Divine  Beings 

Joseph  records  four  revelations  which 
he  and  Oliver  Cowdery  received  in  the 
Kirtland  Temple.  First,  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  himself  appeared  and  talked  to 
them;  then  Moses,  and  then  Elias  ap- 
peared and  revealed  certain  things  unto 
them.    And  then  Joseph  said: 

"After  this  vision  had  closed,  another 
great  and  glorious  vision  burst  upon  us; 
for  Elijah  the  prophet,  who  was  taken 
to  heaven  without  tasting  death,  stood 
before  us,  and  said: 

"Behold,  the  time  has  fully  come, 
which  was  spoken  of  by  the  mouth  of 


Malachi — testifying  that  he  [Elijah] 
should  be  sent,  before  the  great  and 
dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  come — 

"To  turn  the  hearts  of  the  fathers  to 
the  children,  and  the  children  to  the 
fathers,  lest  the  whole  earth  be  smitten 
with  a  curse — 

"Therefore,  the  keys  of  this  dispensa- 
tion are  committed  into  your  hands; 
and  by  this  ye  may  know  that  the  great 
and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord  is  near, 
even  at  the  doors."  (D&C  110:13-16. 
Italics  added.) 

How  enlightening,  encouraging,  and 
consoling  it  is  to  be  able  to  read  this 
revelation  and  know  that  Elijah  has 
actually  appeared. 

The  prophecies  contained  in  the 
three  revelations  to  which  I  have  re- 
ferred and  as  recorded  in  the  Bible, 
wherein  John  the  Revelator  said,  "And 
I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the  midst  of 
heaven,  having  the  everlasting  gospel 
to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell  on  the 
earth"  (Rev.  14:6),  and  Ezekiel,  where 
it  was  revealed  to  him  that  the  stick  of 
Judah  and  the  stick  of  Ephraim  should 
become  "one  in  thine  hand"  (Ezek. 
37:17),  and  Malachi,  wherein  the  Lord 
said,  "Behold,  I  will  send  you  Elijah 
the  prophet  before  the  coming  of  the 
great  and  dreadful  day  of  the  Lord": 
(Mai.  4:5)  have  all  been  fulfilled  and 
point  up  clearly  the  need  of  direct  reve- 
lation in  these,  the  latter  days,  for  the 
guidance  of  the  people,  and  that  they 
might  know  the  will  of  the  Lord. 

Without  modern  revelation  the  world 
would  be  left  in  complete  darkness  re- 
garding first,  the  Book  of  Mormon, 
which  is  a  new  witness  for  Christ  and 
contains  the  gospel  in  its  fulness;  sec- 
ond, the  purpose  and  importance  of 
temple  work;  third,  vicarious  work  for 
the  dead;  and  many  other  things  per- 
taining to  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Testimony  of  the  Restoration 

It  is  my  testimony  to  you  that  God 
truly  lives,  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the 
Savior  of  the  world,  who  gave  his  life 
for  you  and  me;  that  the  priesthood  of 
God  has  been  restored;  that  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  has  been  re-established 
in  these  the  latter  days  with  the  same 
organization  that  existed  in  the  Primi- 
tive Church,  all  by  direct  revelation; 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


64 

Sunday,  April  5 

that  by  direct  revelation  and  the  power 
of  God  we  have  the  Book  of  Mormon 
which  contains  the  gospel  in  its  fulness; 
that  the  heavens  are  as  open  today  as 
they  were  in  the  days  of  Moses,  Abra- 
ham, Peter,  James,  and  John,  and  Paul; 
God  still  answers  the  prayers  of  the 
righteous  and  still  reveals  his  mind  and 
will  through  his  ordained  prophets; 
that  David  O.  McKay  is  a  prophet  of 
God  through  whom  the  Lord  speaks 
to  his  people  today. 

From  the  very  time  that  the  young 
boy  Joseph  at  the  age  of  fourteen,  went 
into  the  grove  to  ask  God  which  church 
he  should  join  until  today,  he  and  those 
who  have  followed  him  as  presidents 
of  this  Church  have  been  led  by  revela- 
tion in  all  things  pertaining  to  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

May  we  all  hold  fast  to  the  iron  rod, 
which  is  the  word  of  God,  and  listen  to 
the  prophet's  voice  and  serve  God  and 
keep  his  commandments  that  he  may 
continue  to  lead  us  in  the  paths  of 
righteousness  to  immortality  and  eternal 


Second  Day 

life,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  President 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner  of  the  First 
Presidency  of  the  Church. 

The  men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
now  favor  us  with  "I  Need  Thee  Every 
Hour."  After  the  singing  Elder  Frank- 
lin D.  Richards,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve, 
will  speak  to  us. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Need 
Thee  Every  Hour." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

There  are  things  in  every  human 
mind  that  cannot  be  expressed  in  words, 
but  they  can  be  in  music,  and  we  have 
had  that  message  this  morning  sung  in 
the  music  by  the  Choir. 

Brother  Franklin  D.  Richards,  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  dear  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am 
happy  to  be  with  you  this  Sabbath 
morning  in  this  great  conference,  and  I 
pray  that  I  may  be  guided  by  the  Spirit 
of  the  Lord  in  speaking  to  you. 

I  have  been  greatly  inspired  by  the 
presence  and  words  of  our  beloved 
prophet  David  O.  McKay  and  of  Presi- 
dent N.  Eldon  Tanner.  I  bring  you  the 
love  and  greetings  of  the  missionaries 
and  of  the  Saints  of  the  nine  eastern 
American  missions,  and  I  am  pleased  to 
report  to  you  that  there  is  great  growth 
and  development  in  the  kingdom  in 
that  part  of  our  Lord's  vineyard. 

In  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  we  call  one  another 
Brother  and  Sister  because  we  recog- 
nize that  all  mankind  are  sons  and 
daughters  of  our  Father  in  heaven, 
therefore,  we  are  all  brothers  and  sisters. 

This  spirit  of  brotherhood  is  greatly 
needed  in  the  world  today.  We  are 
living  in  a  period  when  one  crisis  fol- 
lows another.  Faith  in  mankind  is 
being   disturbed   and    destroyed,  and 


men's  hearts  are  troubled  and  seem  to 
be  failing  them.  Yet  there  is  a  disposi- 
tion even  in  Christian  countries  to  rule 
out  of  life  the  mission  of  Jesus  Christ. 

The  Godhead 

The  first  statement  in  the  declaration 
of  belief  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints  is:  "We  believe  in 
God,  the  Eternal  Father  and  in  His  son 
Jesus  Christ  and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 
This  belief  in  God  is  the  life-giving  ele- 
ment of  the  Church.  Our  conception 
of  God  is  personal.  God  in  this  dispen- 
sation has  revealed  himself  to  mankind 
as  he  has  in  former  dispensations. 
Through  faith  and  prayer  Joseph  Smith 
as  a  young  man  gained  the  great  bless- 
ing of  beholding  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 

In  his  own  words,  Joseph  Smith  said, 
".  .  .  I  saw  two  Personages,  whose 
brightness  and  glory  defy  all  descrip- 
tion, standing  above  me  in  the  air. 
One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling 
me  by  name  and  said,  pointing  to  the 


ELDER  FRANKLIN  D.  RICHARDS 


65 


other — This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear 
Him!"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

I  bear  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Only  Begotten 
of  the  Father  in  the  flesh,  our  Savior 
and  Redeemer.  Also  that  Joseph  Smith, 
in  fulfilment  of  prophecy,  was  a  great 
prophet  of  God,  an  instrument  in  his 
hands  to  restore  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  in  its  fulness  as  well  as  the  true 
knowledge  of  God  and  to  restore  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  in  these  latter 
days.  The  Church  has  been  restored 
here  on  the  earth  with  the  power  to 
act  in  the  name  of  God  and  has  been 
led  by  prophets  since  its  restoration. 
A  great  prophet,  David  O.  McKay,  now 
leads  and  directs  through  revelation 
from  God. 

The  Atonement 

Through  the  atonement  of  Christ,  all 
mankind  may  be  saved,  by  obedience 
to  the  laws  and  ordinances  of  the  gospel. 
The  Savior  said,  "Let  not  your  heart  be 
troubled:  ye  believe  in  God,  believe 
also  in  me. 

"I  am  the  way,  the  truth,  and  the  life: 
no  man  cometh  unto  the  Father,  but 
by  me."  (John  14:1,  6.)  Jesus  taught 
that  all  the  law  and  the  prophets  rested 
upon  the  principle  of  loving  God  with 
all  of  our  heart,  might,  mind,  and 
strength  and  our  neighbors  as  ourselves. 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  the  plan 
of  life  that  will  restore  peace  to  the 
world — remove  inner  tensions  and 
troubles  and  bring  happiness  and  con- 
tentment— the  greatest  philosophy  of 
life  ever  given  to  man.  It  is  founded 
upon  the  basic  principles  of  love  of  God 
and  man  and  showing  this  love  in 
service  to  our  fellow  men.  All  mankind 
must  shape  their  lives  upon  the  simple 
principles  he  taught  and  lived  to  com- 
prehend him  in  his  power  and  majesty. 

In  the  Service  of  God 

King  Benjamin,  a  great  prophet, 
stated:  "And  behold,  I  tell  you  these 
things  that  ye  may  learn  wisdom;  that 
ye  may  learn  that  when  ye  are  in  the 
service  of  your  fellow  beings  ye  are 
only  in  the  service  of  your  God." 
(Mosiah  2:17.) 

Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  king- 
dom of  God,  and  his  righteousness; 
.  .  ."  (Matt.  6:33.) 


".  .  .  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like 
unto  treasure  hid  in  a  field;  the  which 
when  a  man  hath  found,  he  hideth, 
and  for  joy  thereof  goeth  and  selleth  all 
that  he  hath,  and  buyeth  that  field. 

".  .  .  the  kingdom  of  heaven  is  like 
unto  a  merchant  man,  seeking  goodly 
pearls: 

"Who,  when  he  had  found  one  pearl 
of  great  price,  went  and  sold  all  that  he 
had,  and  bought  it."  (Ibid.,  13:44-46.) 

President  Lorenzo  Snow,  one  of  the 
prophets  of  this  dispensation,  in  speak- 
ing to  the  Saints  in  1898  had  this  to 
say:  "We  have  found  the  treasure  in  the 
field,  we  have  found  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price — and  now  we  have  got  to  give 
all  that  we  have  for  it — at  one  time  or 
another.  The  Lord  has  said  that  he 
will  prove  us  even  unto  death  to  see 
whether  we  will  stand  by  the  covenant 
we  have  made  with  him." 

A  distinguishing  feature  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  is  the  opportunity  for  every  mem- 
ber to  serve  in  some  capacity.  Recently 
while  traveling  on  a  plane  in  the  East  I 
asked  the  man  sitting  next  to  me  what 
he  knew  about  the  Church.  He  replied 
that  he  had  lived  in  Salt  Lake  City  for 
a  few  months  some  years  ago,  and  be- 
came acquainted  with  several  members 
of  the  Church.  The  thing  that  im- 
pressed him  most  was  that  every  mem- 
ber was  given  a  chance  to  serve  by 
working  in  the  Church.  We  are  told 
plainly  and  unequivocally  that  our 
greatest  opportunity  and  responsibility 
here  is  building  the  kingdom  of  God, 
Christ's  Church  on  earth.  I  know  this 
to  be  true. 

In  1894  Elder  Francis  M.  Lyman,  one 
of  the  leaders  of  the  Church,  gave  this 
counsel:  "It  will  be  profitable  to  all 
Latter-day  Saints  to  make  this  Church 
first  in  their  hearts  and  affections.  Why? 
Because  the  Lord  has  told  us  to  seek 
first  the  kingdom  of  God.  We  have 
sought  the  kingdom  and  have  found  it 
— and  now  that  should  have  our  atten- 
tion before  farming,  before  merchandis- 
ing, and  before  literary  pursuits  and 
the  like. 

The  Primary  Object 
"The  welfare  of  the  Church  of  Christ 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


66 

Sunday,  April  5 

in  the  earth  and  the  spreading  abroad 
of  the  gospel  should  be  our  pri- 
mary object. 

"But  is  this  the  case  with  us?  If  it 
is  not,  then  we  have  need  of  reforma- 
tion. If  the  Church  of  Christ  and  the 
principles  of  righteousness  are  not 
foremost  in  our  hearts,  then  I  say  all 
Israel  so  far  as  they  lack,  have  need 
of  reformation. 

"If  we  have  set  our  hearts  upon 
property,  whether  it  be  little  or  much 
(for  I  presume  a  man  could  worship  a 
little  property  as  well  as  a  great  deal), 
then  we  are  idolators,  and  God  has  for- 
bidden us  to  be  idolators.  He  has  com- 
manded us  not  to  bow  down  to  worship 
anything  on  earth."  This  counsel  is  as 
important  and  applicable  today  as  it 
was  when  it  was  given  seventy  years 
ago,  perhaps  more  so. 

The  Savior  said,  ".  .  .  unto  whomso- 
ever much  is  given,  of  him  shall  be 
much  required:  .  .  ."  (Luke  12:48.) 

As  I  travel  throughout  the  Church  I 
am  told  by  the  leaders  that  the  most 
pressing  need  today  is  "Greater  dedica- 
tion on  the  part  of  everyone  in  building 
the  kingdom."  In  the  parables  referred 
to,  the  price  of  possession  of  the  hidden 
treasure  and  of  the  pearl  of  great  price 
is  one's  all — complete  dedication.  We 
might  ask,  "How  does  the  Lord  inter- 
pret 'giving  our  all'  or  'complete  dedi- 
cation,' and  how  will  he  prove  us  even 
unto  death  as  President  Snow  stated?" 

Giving  our  all  or  complete  dedication 
means — putting  the  Church  first  in  our 
lives.  It  means  to  accept  every  oppor- 
tunity to  serve.  As  you  accept  each 
call,  recognize  the  tremendous  oppor- 
tunity even  though  the  assignment  does 
not  appear  to  be  too  important,  or  you 
may  feel  your  inadequacy. 

I  heard  of  a  young  man  who  in  pre- 
senting a  diamond  to  his  fiancee  re- 
marked, "it  isn't  very  large,"  whereupon 
she  replied,  "it's  as  big  as  we  make  it." 
So  it  is  with  every  call  to  serve  that 
we  accept — it's  as  big  as  we  make  it. 

Opportunities  Many  and  Varied 

Opportunities  to  serve  in  building  the 
kingdom  are  varied  and  many.  Some 
require  giving  of  our  time,  others  re- 
quire giving  of  our  talents,  others  re- 
quire giving  of  our  means.  When  we 
accept  any  assignment  to  serve  "giving 


Second  Day 

our  all"  means  giving  all  of  the  time, 
talents,  and  means  necessary  to  accom- 
plish the  righteous  objective.  In  being 
asked  to  give  of  our  time,  few  are  asked 
to  lay  down  their  lives  in  building  the 
kingdom,  but  if  this  were  to  be  re- 
quired, we  should  be  willing  to  do  so. 
In  many  respects  it  is  better  to  live  for 
the  Church  than  to  die  for  it.  Living 
for  the  Church  can  mean  accepting  a 
call  as  a  teacher,  a  quorum  or  auxiliary 
leader,  a  bishop,  a  stake  officer,  a  tem- 
ple or  welfare  worker,  a  home  teacher, 
a  missionary,  or  in  performing  any 
service  for  our  fellow  men. 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  has  no  paid  ministry.  As 
an  example:  The  bishops  of  the  wards 
throughout  the  Church  are  laymen  and 
arrange  their  time  and  affairs  so  that 
they  can  provide  and  care  for  their 
families  and  still  shepherd  the  flocks 
over  which  they  are  placed.  This  type 
of  service  is  truly  giving  one's  all. 

"Teach  All  Nations" 

Jesus  told  his  disciples  in  the 
Meridian  of  Time  that  they  should, 
"Go  .  .  .  and  teach  all  nations,  baptiz- 
ing them  in  the  name  of  the  Father, 
and  of  the  Son,  and  of  the  Holy  Ghost: 

"Teaching  them  to  observe  all  things 
whatsoever  I  have  commanded  you: 
.  .  ."  (Matt.  28:19-20.) 

The  Savior  has  given  us  this  same 
charge  in  this  dispensation  through 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  and  the 
prophets  that  have  followed  him.  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  has  always  been 
a  missionary  Church.  At  the  present 
time  there  are  approximately  16,000  full 
time  and  stake  missionaries  working 
throughout  the  world.  Every  member 
of  the  Church  has  been  charged  with 
the  responsibility  of  giving  the  gospel 
message  to  his  friends  and  neighbors. 

There  is  no  greater  evidence  of  giv- 
ing your  all  than  that  shown  by  dedi- 
cated missionaries.  We  ask  that  you 
give  heed  to  their  message  as  you  have 
an  opportunity  to  hear  it.  The  message 
is — that  the  heavens  have  been  opened 
and  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  in  its 
fulness  has  been  restored.  It  is  indeed 
a  message  of  glad  tidings,  ".  .  .  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  to  every 
one  that  believeth;  .  .  ."  (Rom.  1:16.) 


ELDER  FRANKL 

Investment  of  Talents  in  Service 

Some  opportunities  to  serve  require 
the  giving  of  our  talents  as  well  as  of 
our  time.  The  Lord  has  told  us,  ".  .  . 
with  some  I  am  not  well  pleased,  for 
they  will  not  open  their  mouths,  but 
they  hide  the  talent  which  I  have  given 
unto  them,  because  of  the  fear  of 
man.  .  .  . 

".  .  .  Thou  shalt  not  idle  away  thy 
time,  neither  shalt  thou  bury  thy  talent 
that  it  may  not  be  known."  (D&C 
60:2,  13.) 

Giving  our  all  through  the  use  of  our 
talents  is  exemplified  beautifully  by 
the  members  of  the  Salt  Lake  Taber- 
nacle Choir.  These  dedicated  people 
spend  untold  hours  rehearsing  and 
preparing  for  and  presenting  their 
regular  Sunday  morning  program  and 
their  many  special  appearances  through- 
out the  world.  The  choir  is  the  means 
of  opening  the  hearts  and  doors  of  mil- 
lions of  people  to  the  gospel  message. 
Their  only  remuneration  comes  from 
the  joy  they  receive  in  serving  the  Lord. 

Giving  our  all  as  applied  to  our 
means  involves  contributing  financially 
to  the  growth  and  development  of  the 
kingdom.  He  who  pays  an  honest  tithe 
and  makes  his  other  offerings  as  re- 
quired is  giving  his  all  as  far  as  these 
matters  are  concerned.  The  widow's 
mite  is  as  acceptable  as  the  rich 
man's  abundance. 

Taking  care  of  the  poor  and  needy 
through  welfare  projects  and  in  many 
other  ways  requires  the  giving  of  our 
means,  and  each  one  of  these  instances 
is  impressive  evidence  of  one's  dedica- 
tion. Building  the  kingdom  also  re- 
quires the  building  of  chapels,  temples, 
schools,  hospitals,  and  other  church 
buildings  in  order  to  take  care  of  the 
spiritual  and  physical  needs  of  God's 
children. 

Many  throughout  the  world  have  left 
their  homes,  much  the  same  as  the 
missionaries,  to  serve  in  the  vast  build- 
ing program  of  the  Church,  furnishing 
much  of  the  supervision  and  labor 
needed.  Substantial  financial  contribu- 
tions as  well  as  time  are  required  to 
carry  on  the  worldwide  building  opera- 
tion. When  these  buildings  are  dedicated 
to  the  Lord,  they  are  entirely  free 
from  debt. 


J  D.  RICHARDS  67 

Sacrifice  Brings  Blessings 

Sacrifice  brings  forth  the  blessings 
of  heaven,  and  in  this  respect  financial 
sacrifice  means  opportunities  for  great 
and  varied  blessings.  Certainly  the 
sacrifices  entailed  in  contributing  to  the 
building  program  of  the  Church,  both 
of  time  and  means,  are  outstanding  ex- 
amples of  giving  one's  all. 

The  Apostle  Paul  in  writing  to  the 
Corinthian  Saints  emphasized  the  im- 
portance of  our  attitude  in  giving 
when  he  said: 

"But  this  I  say,  He  which  soweth 
sparingly  shall  reap  also  sparingly;  and 
he  which  soweth  bountifully  shall  reap 
also  bountifully. 

"Every  man  according  as  he  pur- 
poseth  in  his  heart,  so  let  him  give;  not 
grudgingly,  or  of  necessity:  for  God 
loveth  a  cheerful  giver."  (2  Cor.  9:6-7.) 

Jesus  in  teaching  his  disciples  coun- 
seled, "Lay  not  up  for  yourselves 
treasures  upon  earth,  where  moth  and 
rust  doth  corrupt,  and  where  thieves 
break  through  and  steal: 

"But  lay  up  for  yourselves  treasures 
in  heaven,  where  neither  moth  nor 
rust  doth  corrupt,  and  where  thieves 
do  not  break  through  nor  steal: 

"For  where  your  treasure  is,  there 
will  your  heart  be  also."  (Matt.  6:19-21.) 

Building  the  Kingdom 

The  message  of  Christianity  is  to 
love  and  to  serve,  and  we  truly  show 
our  love  by  our  good  works.  To  attain 
real  greatness,  the  Savior  tells  us,  one 
must  be  the  servant  of  all. 

The  question  is  frequently  asked,  are 
people  as  dedicated  today  in  building 
the  kingdom  as  they  were  in  former 
times.  I  feel  that  generally  they  are. 
Giving  our  all  today  may  in  some  re- 
spects be  different  from  heretofore,  but 
I  see  evidences  every  day  where  men, 
women,  and  children  are  showing  their 
love  of  God  and  their  fellow  men  by 
their  complete  dedication.  They  are 
gladly  giving  their  all  in  time,  talents, 
and  means.  I  commend  them  for  it.  I 
counsel  all  others  to  put  the  Church 
first  in  their  lives  and  reap  the  peace, 
happiness,  and  contentment  that  come 
from  giving  their  all  through  com- 
plete dedication. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  en- 


68 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

gaged  in  the  Lord's  work.  God  lives, 
and  Jesus  Christ  is  our  Savior  and  Re- 
deemer. I  know  this  to  be  true.  The 
heavens  have  been  opened,  and  prophets 
have  been  raised  up.  Joseph  Smith  was 
indeed  a  great  prophet  raised  up  to 
perform  a  mighty  work  in  establishing 
God's  kingdom  in  this  dispensation. 
And  we  have  a  great  prophet  at  the 
head  of  the  Church  today,  our  beloved 
President  David  O.  McKay.  All  man- 
kind would  do  well  to  heed  his  counsel 
and  advice.  I  bear  this  testimony  to  you 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Second  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 


He  who  has  just  addressed  us  is 
Elder  Franklin  D.  Richards,  grandson 
of  Brother  Williard  Richards  who  was 
with  the  Prophet  during  the  Prophet's 
last  days. 

A  number  of  television  and  radio 
stations  have  just  joined  us.  We  wel- 
come all  those  who  have  tuned  in  for 
this  Conference  session.  We  shall  now 
hear  from  Elder  Robert  L.  Simpson  of 
the  Presiding  Bishopric.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Theodore  M.  Burton. 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


I  am  a  father.  I  share  this  popular 
title  with  millions.  I  would  like  to  do 
some  thinking  with  all  of  the  fathers 
within  range  of  my  voice  this  morning, 
and  we  sincerely  invite  the  rest  of  the 
family  to  listen  in.  Dads,  do  you  realize 
that  we  have  had  one  of  the  truly  great 
compliments  of  the  ages  bestowed  upon 
us?  It  has  been  wisely  stated  that  "to 
be  trusted  is  a  greater  compliment  than 
to  be  loved." 

As  choice  young  spirits  have  been 
sent  into  our  charge,  the  sacred  trust 
that  I  refer  to  has  been  bestowed  by 
Heavenly  Father.  I  would  like  to  have 
all  fathers  join  me  this  morning  as  we 
contemplate  the  obligations  associated 
with  this  great  blessing  of  fatherhood. 

Obligations  and  Blessings 

Who  among  us  fathers  would  not 
thrill  at  the  prospects  of  our  son  record- 
ing of  us  as  a  boy  prophet  recorded 
more  than  2500  years  ago:  ".  .  .  having 
been  born  of  goodly  parents"  (1  Nephi 
1:1),  or  perhaps  this  recording  from  the 
pen  of  our  modern-day  Prophet,  Joseph 
Smith,  Jun.,  as  he  said,  "...  I  love  my 
father  and  his  memory;  and  the  memory 
of  his  noble  deeds  rests  with  ponderous 
weight  upon  my  mind,  and  many  of 
his  kind  and  parental  words  to  me  are 
written  on  the  tablet  of  my  heart.  .  .  . 

"Words  and  language  are  inadequate 
to  express  the  gratitude  that  I  owe  to 
God  for  having  given  me  so  honorable 
a  parentage."  (DHC  5,  see  pp.  125-126.) 

Such  an  expression  of  gratitude  from 


one  of  our  sons  could  hardly  be  ex- 
pected, much  less  appreciated,  without 
some  real  effort  on  our  part  in  order  to 
merit  it. 

So  how  about  it,  dads?  Let's  put 
our  heads  together  for  just  a  few  min- 
utes and  determine  some  ways  to  im- 
prove our  contribution  to  the  partner- 
ship we  have  with  God  the  Eternal 
Father  in  guiding  the  destiny  of  human 
souls,  in  this  case,  our  sons. 

Love,  the  Prime  Ingredient 

Let  us  place  first  things  first  and 
mention  love  as  the  prime  ingredient. 
I  rather  think  that  Heavenly  Father 
would  like  the  idea  of  love  heading  our 
list,  for  his  Only  Begotten,  the  Savior 
of  the  world,  had  unlimited  capacity 
for  love.  This  single  trait  of  love  was 
most  typical  of  his  brief  mortal  ministry. 

In  this  day  the  Lord  has  revealed  his 
will  to  us  concerning  our  approach  to 
one  another,  and  I  cannot  think  of  a 
single  reason  why  it  should  not  apply 
especially  to  the  father-son  relationship. 
He  speaks  of  using  our  power  and  influ- 
ence, ".  .  .  only  by  persuasion,  by  long- 
suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — " 
(D&C  121:41-42.) 

In  acknowledging  God's  patience  with 
the  children  of  Israel,  Nehemiah  de- 
scribed God  as  ".  .  .  ready  to  pardon, 
gracious  and  merciful,  slow  to  anger, 


BISHOP  ROBERT  L.  SIMPSON 


69 


and  of  great  kindness."  (Neh.  9:17.) 

The  Savior  became  upset  and  over- 
wrought on  at  least  one  very  trying 
occasion.  Do  you  remember  the  epi- 
sode in  the  temple  as  he  drove  out  the 
money  changers?  This  is  compatible 
with  his  continued  advice  as  he  justifies 
you  and  me:  "Reproving  betimes  with 
sharpness,  when  moved  upon  by  the 
Holy  Ghost;  and  then  showing  forth 
afterwards  an  increase  of  love  toward 
him  whom  thou  hast  reproved,  lest  he 
esteem  thee  to  be  his  enemy";  (D&C 
121:43.) 

"Follow  the  Leader" 

All  boys  seem  to  have  a  favorite 
game.  They  play  it  most  of  the  time 
without  even  realizing  it.  It  is  called 
"Follow  the  Leader"  and,  dads,  whether 
we  like  it  or  not,  this  is  the  way  it  is. 
So  maybe  we  had  better  decide  right 
here  and  now  to  lead  right.  Can  we 
constantly  break  promises  and  teach 
our  sons  integrity?  Speak  an  occasional 
falsehood  and  expect  undeviating  truth 
from  them? 

When  was  the  last  time  you  found 
your  son  looking  up  at  you  with  that 
look  of  complete  admiration  and  confi- 
dence? To  them,  dad  is  perfection, 
and  we  should  do  nothing  to  betray 
the  trust  and  faith  that  is  theirs  in  us. 

We  now  find  ourselves  in  a  great  age 
of  acceleration,  a  turn  to  the  left  or 
right,  however  slight,  can  be  of  great 
consequence.  Surely  a  five  degree  devia- 
tion traveling  down  the  road  behind 
old  dobbin  was  not  a  serious  miscalcu- 
lation, and  there  was  plenty  of  time  to 
pull  the  reins  and  set  things  right. 
Traveling  down  the  modern  highway 
of  life  calls  for  strict  attention  to  detail, 
for  a  slight  deviation  of  our  course  can 
spell  disaster  in  the  fraction  of  a  sec- 
ond. Ours  is  the  most  volatile  age  in  the 
history  of  the  world.  How  important 
it  is  that  we  train  well  to  follow  the 
white  line,  to  hold  fast  to  the  iron  rod 
spoken  of  by  President  Tanner. 

Respect  Free  Agency 

Our  sons  are  sent  to  us  from  our 
Heavenly  Father's  presence  as  free 
agents  to  be  taught  and  persuaded — yes, 
to  be  forced  and  driven  like  cattle — 
never!  It  was  established  even  before 
the  foundations  of  the  earth  what  the 


pattern  should  be.  In  that  great  coun- 
cil attended  by  you  and  me  along  with 
the  hosts  of  heaven,  we  are  told  that 
Satan's  plan  of  force  and  dictatorial 
power  was  rejected.  Instead  a  plan  of 
freedom  and  personal  choice  was  de- 
cided upon,  and  so  it  must  be  in  all 
of  our  human  relationships.  We  have 
often  heard,  "You  can  lead  a  horse  to 
water,  but  you  can't  make  him  drink." 

Persuasion  Not  Compulsion 

No,  dads,  let's  face  it.  The  methods 
of  compulsion  and  dictatorship  are  not 
compatible  with  the  Lord's  plan,  but 
rather  kindly  persuasion  through  love 
and  patience  as  expressed  by  the  poet: 

"Know  this,  that  every  soul  is  free, 
To  choose  his  life  and  what  he'll  be; 
For  this  eternal  truth  is  given 
That  God  will  force  no  man  to  heaven." 

—William  C.  Gregg 

Communication,  Many  Forms 

Now  getting  back  to  the  horse  that 
wouldn't  drink,  someone  has  said, 
"Well,  he  just  didn't  know  he  was 
thirsty,"  so  we  had  to  convince  him. 
Here  we  get  into  the  area  of  communi- 
cation. If  there  is  one  major  problem 
in  the  world  today,  it  is  a  lack  of 
proper  communication.  It  is  not  only 
the  cause  of  international  unrest,  but 
also  family  disunity. 

At  this  very  moment,  communication 
satellites  circle  the  globe,  and  experi- 
mental testing  goes  on  at  a  feverish  rate 
so  that  nations  will  be  able  to  talk  to 
nations  both  audibly  and  visually  in  our 
day.  To  eliminate  gross  misunder- 
standing that  might  trigger  an  atomic 
bomb  without  true  cause,  we  read  of  a 
hot  line  from  Moscow  to  Washington, 
and  you  can  be  sure  that  understanding 
would  be  checked  very  thoroughly  be- 
fore anyone  pushes  a  button  that 
would  send  the  world  reeling  into  an 
atomic  war. 

Are  we  taking  as  much  pain  to  see 
that  our  family  communications  are  un- 
restricted and  static  free?  Have  you 
ever  had  the  experience  of  a  hurried 
word  that  was  misunderstood  only  to 
find  out  later  that  feelings  resulted  due 
to  a  misinterpretation  of  the  true 
meaning? 

I  heard  of  a  father  who  decided  to 


70 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

leave  the  car  home  on  Sunday  morning 
so  he  and  his  boy  could  enjoy  a  brisk 
walk  to  church.  Even  more  stimulat- 
ing than  the  exercise  which  they  both 
needed  very  much  was  the  opportunity 
for  casual  conversation  and  the  re- 
sulting understanding  that  grew  between 
them.  A  new  warm  father-son  rela- 
tionship that  had  been  slipping  away 
rather  rapidly  was  firmly  reestablished. 

Are  we  too  busy  for  a  Pack  meeting, 
dads?  Too  little  time  for  a  few  min- 
utes of  ball  throwing  before  dinner 
perhaps?  Is  it  inconvenient  for  you  to 
rough  it  for  just  one  night  at  a  Fathers' 
and  Sons'  outing?  Maybe  we  are  just 
too  busy — yes,  even  with  church  work — 
sometimes  we  might  become  too  busy. 

Any  red-blooded  father  would  throw 
back  his  shoulders  and  say,  "I'd  give 
my  life  for  my  family,"  but,  dads,  are 
we  willing  to  give  up  our  favorite  TV 
show  in  the  meantime?  How  about  it, 
dads,  are  we  just  a  little  selfish  some- 
times when  it  comes  to  putting  first 
things  first?  Let's  think  in  terms  of 
the  little  day-to-day  niceties  and  not 
so  much  about  the  spectacular  gesture 
"some  day."  Just  as  surely  as  night 
follows  the  day,  no  man  will  ever  make 
the  big  sacrifice  without  first  the  little 
sacrifices  along  the  way. 

From  the  beginning  of  time,  dad  has 
been  designated  as  the  head  of  the 
family.  This  is  further  amplified  in  the 
teachings  of  the  priesthood.  The  father 
who  holds  the  priesthood  becomes  the 
president  or  the  head  of  his  family  unit 
as  long  as  he  maintains  himself  worthy 
of  that  sacred  trust.  As  president  of  this 
most  important  corporation  in  the  eyes 
of  the  Lord,  all  fathers  must  find  time 
to  give  to  it. 

Time  is  always  so  precious.  Can  we 
ever  find  all  the  hours  necessary  to  earn 
a  living,  do  our  church  work,  and  be  a 
good  father?  The  answer  is  yes,  but 
not  without  some  organization  and 
planning.  As  we  seek  for  every  avail- 
able minute  to  accomplish  our  impor- 
tant responsibilities,  may  I  pass  on  just 
one  idea  given  me  by  a  father  who 
utilizes  the  dinner  hour  as  a  time 
for  better  family  communications,  not 
in  a  direct  businesslike  way  but  rather 
in  an  indirect  but  preplanned  way.  The 
dinner  table  discussion  is  guided  skil- 
fully into  those  areas  thought  most 


Second  Day 

important  by  mother  and  dad.  The 
children  are  not  even  aware  of  what 
is  happening,  and  with  proper  fore- 
thought on  some  subjects  that  would  be 
of  interest  to  all,  plus  perhaps  a  thought- 
provoking  question  to  get  things  mov- 
ing, this  family  found  itself  deeply 
engrossed  in  interesting,  stimulating 
conversation  with  a  greater  feeling  of 
unity  than  ever  before.  It  is  interest- 
ing to  note  that  the  mother  of  this 
family  reports  a  wonderful  by-product 
of  the  plan.  Conversation  became  so 
engrossing  and  so  involved  that  it  com- 
pletely eliminated  the  bickering  and 
contention  that  was  usually  a  part  of 
the  dinner  hour. 

For  Boys 

Now  in  all  of  our  talking  during 
these  past  few  moments,  most  has  been 
said  about  father  and  son.  Practically 
everything  expressed  could  also  be  said 
about  mother  and  daughter  or  father 
and  daughter,  and  as  far  as  that  goes, 
mother  and  son.  As  a  bishopric,  we 
are  always  impressed  with  President 
McKay's  kindly  admonition.  As  we 
find  ourselves  at  times  carried  away 
with  the  boys'  programs  of  the  Church, 
he  leans  forward  with  that  twinkle  in 
his  eye  and  in  a  very  kindly  way  re- 
minds us,  "And,  brethren,  girls  of 
corresponding  ages,"  and  so  we  would 
remind  all  of  the  brethren  not  to  forget 
girls  of  corresponding  ages. 

For  Girls 

Today  is  a  wonderful  day,  made  pos- 
sible through  thousands  of  intelligent 
people  with  proper  attitudes.  The 
world  today  is  the  product  of  mothers 
and  dads  of  yesterday.  Our  thinking, 
our  judgment,  our  spirituality  are  largely 
the  product  of  their  good  example.  Now 
on  the  horizon  we  see  tomorrow 
sparkling  and  bright,  offering  a  chal- 
lenge to  our  sons  and  our  daughters,  a 
challenge  that  exceeds  anything  the 
world  has  ever  known.  The  attitudes, 
the  leadership,  the  spirituality  of  that 
day  will  be  in  direct  measure  a  reflec- 
tion of  the  effectiveness  of  the  parental 
guidance  we  offer  today. 

To  Boys 

Boys,  "Honour  thy  father  and  thy 
mother:  that  thy  days  may  be  long 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


71 


upon  the  land  which  the  Lord  thy 
God  giveth  thee."  (Exod.  20:12.)  Dads, 
let's  not  wait  for  the  more  convenient 
time  that  never  seems  to  come.  Give 
that  boy  the  guidance  that  only  you  can 
give  as  Heavenly  Father  intended  it. 
Don't  think  about  the  great  day  way 
off  in  eternity  sometime  when  you  will 
give  your  life.  That  boy  will  settle 
for  a  few  minutes  here,  and  an  hour 
there,  and  every  once  in  a  while  per- 
haps a  full  day.  An  unknown  poet 
has  said  it  better  than  I: 

"What  is  this  gift  you  will  give  your 
boy? 

A  glamorous  game,  a  tinseled  toy, 
A  whittling  knife,  a  puzzle  pack, 
A  train  that  runs  on  a  curving  track? 
A  Boy  Scout  book,  a  real  live  pet? 
No,  there's  plenty  of  time  for  such 

things  yet. 
Give  him  a  day  for  his  very  own — 
Just  your  boy  and  his  dad  alone: 
A  walk  in  the  woods,  a  game  in  the 

park, 

A  fishing  trip  from  dawn  to  dark; 
Give  him  the  gift  to  thrill  any  lad 


The  total  companionship  of  his  very 
own  dad. 

Games  are  outgrown,  and  toys  decay, 
But  he'll  never  forget  if  you  give  him 
a  day!" 

May  we  provide  this  time  as  our 
Heavenly  Father  would  have  us,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  his  Son  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Robert  L.  Simpson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church. 

A  number  of  television  sets  are  just 
changing  now,  and  we  will  listen  to 
about  a  minute  and  a  half  of  organ 
recital. 

We  do  not  know  how  many  millions 
of  people  have  tuned  in  on  this  Taber- 
nacle session.  You  may  guess.  A  new 
audience  is  now  listening  to  us. 

We  shall  hear  now  from  Elder  Theo- 
dore M.  Burton,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Literal  Resurrection 

Few  things  in  this  world  of  ideas  and 
men  have  been  so  thoroughly  accepted 
and  so  implicitly  believed  as  was  the 
literal  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  by 
his  disciples.  Their  belief  in  the  actual 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  led  his 
disciples,  rather  than  to  deny  him,  to 
give  up  their  very  lives.  Men  do  not 
give  up  their  lives  for  an  idea  or  con- 
cept unless  they  know  in  their  hearts 
that  the  idea  is  true  and  worth  such 
sacrifice.  The  disciples  believed  and 
were  convinced  of  the  literal  resurrec- 
tion of  Jesus  Christ.  They  understood 
this  resurrection  to  be  a  reuniting  of 
body  and  spirit  to  form  an  eternal  soul, 
never  again  to  be  separated  by  death. 

A  question  might  well  be  asked: 
"What  happened  to  the  Spirit  of  Jesus 
Christ  during  the  period  when  his  dead 
body  lay  in  the  tomb  awaiting  its  resur- 
rection?" Though  his  body  was  con- 
fined to  the  tomb,  his  Spirit  was  free. 


What  did  Jesus  do  from  Friday 
afternoon  until  Sunday  morning  when 
the  two  Marys  came  to  the  tomb  and 
found  it  empty? 

The  great  Apostle  Peter,  who  later 
became  the  leader  and  spokesman  for 
the  Church,  gave  a  very  clear  state- 
ment of  what  happened  as  he  wrote: 

"For  Christ  also  hath  once  suffered 
for  sins,  the  just  for  the  unjust,  that 
he  might  bring  us  to  God,  being  put  to 
death  in  the  flesh,  but  quickened  by 
the  Spirit: 

"By  which  (that  is,  in  the  spirit)  also 
he  went  and  preached  unto  the  spirits 
in  prison; 

"Which  sometime  were  disobedient, 
when  once  the  longsuffering  of  God 
waited  in  the  days  of  Noah,  while  the 
ark  was  a  preparing,  wherein  (which 
means  during  the  days  of  Noah)  few, 
that  is,  eight  souls  were  saved  by  water 
(meaning  by  baptism)."  (1  Peter 
3:18-20.) 


72 

Sunday,  April  5 

Gospel  in  Spirit  World 

Tradition  tells  us  that  Noah  preached 
the  gospel  of  repentance  and  salvation 
for  120  years  among  his  people,  but 
those  wicked  ones  would  not  listen  to 
his  warning.  In  the  mercy  of  God, 
following  the  death  of  Jesus  Christ, 
those  spirits  who  had  been  confined 
because  of  their  wickedness  on  earth 
were  given  a  chance  to  hear  and  accept 
the  gospel  in  the  spirit  world.  It  is 
doubtful  that  Noah's  preaching  could 
have  been  heard  by  all  the  multitude 
of  people  then  living  on  the  earth. 
God  does  love  his  children  and  desires 
that  all  will  accept  his  plan  of  salvation 
so  they  might  be  numbered  among  his 
children  and  live  as  resurrected  beings 
in  his  presence. 

Jesus,  therefore,  preached  to  these  and 
other  _  spirits  in  the  spirit  world  and 
organized  the  work  of  the  ministry 
there.  The  scriptures  are  clear  on  this 
point  that  the  promise  given  to  David 
and  cited  by  Luke  in  Acts  1:17  was 
literally  fulfilled.  We  might  well  ask: 
"Why?"  Why  was  it  necessary  for 
Jesus  to  give  the  spirits  in  prison  a 
chance  to  accept  the  gospel  of  salvation? 
Peter  answers  the  question  this  way: 

"That  they  might  be  judged" 

"For  for  this  cause  was  the  gospel 
preached  also  to  them  that  are  dead, 
that  they  might  be  judged  according  to 
men  in  the  flesh,  but  live  according  to 
God  in  the  spirit."  (1  Peter  4:6.) 

Men  will  be  judged  by  what  they 
do  in  this  life.  We  will  be  rewarded 
for  the  good  we  do  on  this  earth,  and 
we  must  pay  dearly  for  the  sins  we 
commit.  There  is  altogether  too  much 
disobedience  and  sin  in  the  world.  Sin 
is  a  weakness  of  the  flesh.  This  weak- 
ness to  some  is  an  excuse  to  justify 
their  sins,  but  to  the  strong  it  is  a 
challenge  to  overcome  this  weakness  of 
the  flesh.  This  is  possible  by  exercising 
the  faith  inherent  in  all  men  to  con- 
quer temptation  and  live  as  God  in- 
tended we  should. 

Repentance  and  Covenants 

Jesus  invited  all  men  everywhere  to 
change  from  carnal  thoughts  and  ac- 
tions to  a  life  of  righteousness.  We 
call  this  change  of  thought  and  action 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

"repentance."  This  repentance  must 
make  such  a  mighty  change  in  our 
hearts  that  we  have  no  more  disposi- 
tion to  do  evil,  but  to  do  good  con- 
tinually. Such  faith  and  repentance 
will  lead  us  to  make  a  formal  covenant 
with  God  to  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  our 
Savior,  our  Redeemer,  our  Lord,  and 
our  Father.  This  covenant  we  call 
baptism  and  is  so  necessary  that  Jesus 
told  his  disciples: 

".  .  .  Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  and 
preach  the  gospel  to  every  creature. 

"He  that  believeth  and  is  baptized 
shall  be  saved;  but  he  that  believeth 
not  (and  therefore  is  not  baptized) 
shall  be  damned."  (Mark  16:15-16.) 

The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  been 
in  the  world  from  the  time  of  Adam. 
It  was  preached  and  taught  and  prac- 
tised by  the  patriarchs  and  the  prophets. 
Baptism  in  water  was  also  practised  as  a 
token  of  this  covenant  from  earliest 
times.  However  you  and  I  realize  that 
there  are  many  in  this  world  who  lived 
and  died  without  ever  having  an  oppor- 
tunity to  hear  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
We  know  that  there  are  many  men  and 
women  who  die  unbaptized,  because 
some  teacher,  missionary,  or  leader  who 
should  have  taught  them  was  so  poorly 
trained,  so  lacking  in  faith,  and  so  un- 
prepared to  bear  personal  witness  of 
Jesus  Christ  that  the  hearer  never 
understood  the  message  as  he  should 
have  done.  Should  such  people  be 
damned  forever  for  lack  of  proper  in- 
struction, because  of  an  accident  of 
birth,  or  because  of  the  inadequacies  of 
others?  I  say:  "No!"  God  is  a  God  of 
justice  and  love  and  mercy.  Every  man 
is  entitled  to  a  just  chance  to  know  and 
accept  Jesus  Christ  or  to  reject  him  if 
he  feels  the  price  of  acceptance  is 
too  high. 

Opportunity  to  Covenant 

Thus  either  in  this  life  or  in  the  spirit 
world  each  man  and  woman  who  has 
lived  upon  this  earth  is  given  an  oppor- 
tunity to  covenant  with  God  through 
baptism  to  accept  Jesus  Christ  as  Lord 
and  Father.  However,  just  as  Jesus 
taught  that  there  is  no  marrying  in 
heaven,  so  there  can  be  no  baptism  in 
heaven.  Both  baptism  and  marriage 
are  earthly  ordinances  which  must  be 


ELDER  THEODORE  M.  BURTON 


73 


performed  here.  Jesus  gave  Peter  and 
the  other  Apostles  power  to  seal  on 
earth  with  the  promise  that  this  sealing 
would  then  be  recognized  in  heaven. 
This  same  power  to  seal  on  earth  and 
in  heaven  has  been  given  us  through 
the  laying  on  of  hands  by  those  in 
authority.  Thus  baptisms  and  mar- 
riages on  earth,  sealed  by  men  given 
such  divine  authority,  are  recognized 
in  heaven  as  valid  and  are  ac- 
cepted there. 

Ordinances  Performed  Vicariously 

For  those  who  are  deceased,  such 
ordinances  must  be  performed  by  the 
living  for  and  in  behalf  of  those  who 
are  dead.  This  vicarious  work  of  the 
redemption  of  others  was  cited  by  Paul 
as  another  justification  for  belief  in  the 
literal  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ.  As 
Paul  explained: 

"Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are 
baptized  for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise 
not  at  all?  why  are  they  then  baptized 
for  the  dead?"  (1  Cor.  15:29.) 

The  reasoning  is  clear.  All  men  can 
escape  damnation  by  making  such  cove- 
nants with  God  to  accept  Jesus  Christ 
with  all  that  action  requires  of  us  by 
way  of  sacrifice  and  devotion.  That  all 
would  not  achieve  the  same  degree  of 
exaltation  was  made  very  clear  by  Paul 
as  he  taught  of  the  various  heavens  pre- 
pared for  man  in  accordance  with  the 
diligence  man  shows  in  earning  such 
glory.  Even  as  one  star  differs  from 
another  in  brightness,  so  shall  one  man's 
heaven  differ  from  another's  according 
to  the  service  he  renders.  But  the 
chance  to  receive  the  highest  glory 
which  Paul  typified  by  the  brightness 
of  the  sun  must  be  given  to  every  man 
and  every  woman. 

Genealogy  a  Means 

People  not  fully  acquainted  with  this 
concept  cannot  understand  the  concern 
of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  with  genealogy.  Our  ex- 
penditure of  time,  money,  and  effort  in 
gathering  and  organizing  the  names  and 
vital  statistics  of  our  ancestors  is  done 
to  identify  them  properly.  We  only 
gather  and  correlate  these  genealogies 
for  one  purpose,  so  that  we  can  do  the 
necessary  ordinance  work  for  our  kin- 


dred dead  in  the  temples  of  God 
erected  for  that  purpose.  If  our  ancestors 
and  kinfolk  have  the  desire  to  accept 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  even  beyond 
the  grave,  they  are  free  to  accept  these 
redeeming  ordinances  made  in  their 
behalf.  There  is  neither  force  nor  com- 
pulsion in  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
only  love,  mercy,  and  opportunity. 

Christ,  an  Example  of  Vicarious 
Service 

The  greatness  of  Jesus  Christ  was 
his  selfless  sacrifice  to  assist  us  who 
are  powerless  to  assist  ourselves.  By  his 
sacrifice,  he  opened  to  us  the  door  to 
life  everlasting  and  made  it  possible  for 
us  to  resurrect  our  bodies  and  so  regain 
the  presence  of  Almighty  God,  provided, 
of  course,  that  we  live  righteous  lives 
to  merit  this  privilege.  What  Jesus  did 
was  done  as  an  example  to  show  us  how 
we  too  could  serve  others  through  our 
own  work  and  sacrifice.  In  our  vicarious 
work  for  the  salvation  of  our  dead  we 
do  follow  our  Lord  and  Savior  and  be- 
come ourselves  saviors  for  those  who 
cannot  save  themselves.  It  is  a  beauti- 
ful principle  and  one  which  helps  to 
establish  this  Church  as  the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  I  know  of  no 
other  church  which  understands  this 
principle  and  which  practises  those 
early  Christian  ordinances  taught  in  the 
Bible.  It  did  require  revelation  from 
God,  however,  to  show  us  the  logic  of 
these  practices.  With  this  key  of 
knowledge  we  presently  wonder  why 
those  passages  which  appear  so  clear  to 
us  now  should  have  been  so  long  cov- 
ered in  darkness. 

A  Work  of  Love 

This  work  is  a  work  of  love  and 
sacrifice  and  illustrates  the  finest  of 
Christian  virtues  in  serving  others 
where  no  thanks  is  either  possible  or 
expected  in  this  earthly  life.  We  invite 
all  men  everywhere  to  join  us  in  this 
Church  as  we  strive  toward  Christian 
perfection.  In  serving  others  we  save 
ourselves,  for  we  cannot  be  saved  or  be 
happy  without  our  kindred  dead.  This 
is  a  reward  which  Jesus  promised  as 
he  taught: 

".  .  .  Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  ,it 
unto  one  of  the  least  of  these  my 


74 

Sunday,  April  5 

brethren,  ye  have  done  it  unto  me." 
(Matt.  25:40.) 

My  brothers  and  sisters  and  my 
friends  who  are  watching  and  listening 
to  this  program  on  the  air,  I  bear  you 
my  solemn  witness  that  God  lives,  that 
Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son  who  rose  from 
the  dead  and  heads  this  Church  today. 
I  bear  my  witness  to  you  in  love  that 
these  same  principles  of  salvation  apply 
not  only  to  us,  but  to  those  who  are 
dead,  which  testimony  I  bear  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Theo- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Burton, 


Second  Day 

Assistant    to  the 


dore  M. 
Twelve. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  sing, 
"Praise  to  God  in  the  Highest,"  after 
which  Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  speak  to  us. 


Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
"Praise  To  God  In  The  Highest." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  speak  to  us. 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  most  humbly  give  respect  and  love  to 
President  McKay  and  all  the  General 
Authorities  and  to  the  Saints  here  and 
abroad  and  to  all  who  are  hearing  and 
viewing  this  service. 

While  we  are  witnessing  the  turbu- 
lences of  nature,  as  predicted,  wars, 
rumors  of  wars,  earthquakes  in  divers 
places,  the  sea  leaping  beyond  its 
bounds,  it  is  nevertheless  in  the  simple 
walks  of  life  that  the  nobility  of  man 
or  a  lack  of  it  is  found. 

Conviction,  A  Modern  Need 

One  of  the  great  needs  of  our  modern 
civilization,  perhaps  the  most  important 
of  all,  is  a  sense  of  conviction — convic- 
tion in  a  cause  motivated  by  divine 
truth;  a  conviction  that  is  greater 
than  the  mere  physical  knowledge  it 
may  contain. 

Through  conviction,  God  can  speak 
to  the  soul  of  every  individual,  giving 
direction  in  all  phases  of  life  with 
spiritual  and  moral  courage  to  meet  any 
situation  without  surrendering  ideals 
and  objectives.  Any  other  type  of  re- 
ligion will  be  cluttered  with  the  apathy 
and  misconcepts  of  human  wisdom. 
Here  is  a  power  that  can  lead  to  the 
highest  pinnacle  of  achievement  in  mor- 
tality and  to  exaltation  in  immortality. 

The  world  gropes  today  for  that  direc- 
tion which  the  Apostle  Paul  called: 

".  .  .  not  .  .  .  the  spirit  of  fear;  but 


of  power,  and  of  love,  and  of  a  sound 
mind."  (2  Tim.  1:7.) 

Our  civilization  today  is  often  re- 
ferred to  as  a  godless  one,  primarily 
because  of  the  ascendancy  of  worldly 
learning  and  the  diminishing  influence 
of  faith  or  conviction;  but  it  is  not  a 
total  loss  of  faith  that  we  need  fear, 
but  rather  a  weakening  of  conviction, 
the  watering  down  of  devotion  which 
is  taking  place. 

"Philip  E.  Jacob,  Professor  of  Political 
Science  at  the  University  of  Pennsyl- 
vania and  author  of  'Changing  Values 
in  College,'  says:  'The  vast  majority  of 
today's  college  students  profess  belief 
in  God.  But  there  is  a  "ghostly  quality" 
to  their  religion.  It  is  divorced  from 
present-day  concerns,  lacking  in  social 
responsibility.'  Another  survey,  the 
Cornell  University  Values  Study,  found: 
'.  .  .  little  or  no  evidence  of  "absolute 
conviction  or  adherence"  and  ended  by 
calling  student  belief  'secular  religion.'  " 
(This  Week,  James  DeFoe,  "God  on  the 
Campus,"  March  8,  1964,  p.  6.) 

"Tobacco  is  not  good  for  man" 

In  February  of  1833,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  made  a  statement  to  the 
world  which  we  believe  was  inspired 
of  God.  That  statement  concerned  the 
harmful  effects  in  the  use  of  tobacco  on 
the  human  body.  His  declaration  was 
not  made  with  any  malice  toward  any- 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


75 


one  but  simply  as  a  benefit  to  mankind. 
Now,  after  130  years,  we  in  our  present 
civilization  have  progressively  reached 
a  verdict  concerning  the  deadly  effect 
of  this  narcotic. 

As  a  Prophet  of  God,  Joseph  Smith 
was  led  by  divine  inspiration  and  heav- 
enly direction  to  make  other  statements, 
many  of  which  are  more  far-reaching 
than  the  one  referred  to.  All  have  been 
for  the  benefit  of  mankind. 

One  in  particular,  which  is  closely 
related  with  faith  and  conviction,  he 
reiterated  many  times,  as  recorded  in 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants  of  the 
Church.  In  June  of  1829,  nearly  four 
years  before  he  made  the  statement 
concerning  the  deadly  effect  of  tobacco, 
he  proclaimed  these  words  as  they  had 
been  revealed  to  him  from  the  Lord: 
".  .  .  the  thing  which  will  be  of  the  most 
worth  unto  you  will  be  to  declare  re- 
pentance. .  .  ."  (D&C  16:6.) 

Recognizing  Right  and  Wrong 

This  is  the  need  of  America!  This  is 
the  need  of  the  world!  In  the  face  of 
such  urgency,  it  is  timely  to  ask,  how 
shall  we  face  this  problem?  First,  there 
is  necessity  for  a  changed  attitude  in 
recognizing  the  difference  between  right 
and  wrong.  If  we  cannot  recognize  this 
difference,  then  we  cannot  know  what 
to  repent  of.  To  live  in  a  society  that 
does  not  recognize  the  volitional  right 
of  choice  in  two  opposites,  of  choosing 
right  over  wrong,  can  only  bring  the 
masses  to  a  state  of  decay.  There  seems 
no  question  that  it  is  the  will  of  the 
"evil  one"  that  our  choices  in  life  or 
the  exercise  of  agency  shall  be  in  be- 
half of  one  of  two  evils,  rather  than  in 
right  over  wrong.  I  quote  from  a  chal- 
lenging editorial  of  a  leading  weekly 
magazine: 

".  .  .  one  of  the  leading  newspapers 
in  London — published  on  August  8  a 
remarkable  editorial  entitled  'The  New 
Morality.'  It  was  prompted  by  the  sex 
and  spy  scandals  which  have  stirred  the 
indignation  not  only  of  the  people  of 
Great  Britain,  but  also  of  the  people  of 
other  countries.  [Primarily  because  such 
modern  behavior  is  not  limited  in  its 
scope  to  these  scandals.] 

"What  is  significant,  however,  is  the 
manner  in  which  'The  Telegraph  ques- 


tions the  attitude  among  so  many  intel- 
lectuals toward  right  and  wrong. 

"In  America  today,  for  instance,  we 
are  being  told  that,  if  the  end  sought 
is  good,  it  is  not  unmoral  to  break  the 
law."  (By  permission  U.S.  News  and 
World  Report,  August  26,  1963,  David 
Lawrence,  p.  104.) 

But  Thomas  Aquinas  wrote  that  a 
good  intention  does  not  justify  an  evil. 
He  said:  "A  man  cannot  rightly  steal 
because  he  intends  to  use  the  money 
for  a  good  purpose — to  help  the  poor." 

Exemplifying  the  modern  trend, 
Canon  Rhymes  of  England  calls  ex- 
plicitly for  a  "new  moral  code"  based 
upon  sympathy  for  the  different  needs 
of  individuals.  These  needs  may  require 
that  individuals  "may  need  to  break  all 
Ten  Commandments."  In  turn,  the 
old  morality,  as  it  is  now  being  spoken 
of,  would  have  condemned  such  needs; 
the  new  morality,  says  he,  must  respect 
in  them  its  own  essence. 

From  the  classroom,  from  some  Chris- 
tian pulpits,  and  from  the  politician's 
platform  we  are  hearing  today — "all 
is  right"  or  rather  whatever  is  done 
must  be  right.  We  see  the  manifest 
evidence  of  this  tirelessly  endorsing 
whatever  actually  occurs.  Lord  Silkin, 
for  instance,  apparently  distressed  at  the 
number  of  "Irregular  marriages,"  re- 
cently sought  to  remedy  the  situation  by 
calling  them  regular.  A  Ministry  of 
Education's  medical  officer  describes 
unchastity  as  not  in  his  view  "unchaste." 

Thus  this  supposedly  new-found  mo- 
rality in  our  modern  day  destroys  the 
efficacy  of  good  over  bad  or  of  right  over 
wrong.  The  immutable  law  of  God 
that  man  becomes  like  unto  him  in 
knowing  the  difference  between  right 
and  wrong  or  good  and  evil  is  lost  in  the 
subterfuge  of  man's  unwillingness  to 
repent. 

In  this  regard,  William  Hard  writes 
of  a  "split  personality"  in  America.  I 
quote: 

"Clearly  we  have  achieved  a  split 
personality.  We  are  having  a  religious 
revival  and  a  moral  decline. 

"I  think  it  clear  that  we  have  not  suc- 
ceeded adequately  in  fusing  'worship' 
and  'the  world.'  We  have  not  suc- 
ceeded adequately  in  fusing  ritual 
and  righteousness. 


76  GENERAL  C 

Sunday,  April  5 

"If  a  nation  would  achieve  righteous- 
ness," challenges  William  Hard,  "let 
it  first  achieve  repentance."  (Reader's 
Digest,  William  Hard,  "How  Law 
Abiding  Are  We— Really?"  May  1959, 
pp.  39-41.) 

In  a  washed-down  type  of  conviction, 
we  see  the  image  of  the  unrepentant 
church  member  spoken  of  by  Samuel 
Miller,  Dean  of  the  Harvard  Divinity 
School: 

"Men  who  want  to  be  sure  that  their 
goodness  pays  or  that  there  will  be  a 
newspaper  notice  of  their  heroism,  or 
that  there  is  some  profit  in  believing  in 
God,  simply  do  not  know  what 
faith  is."  (Look,  Samuel  Miller,  "What 
Can  I  Believe,"  Dec.  19,  1961,  p.  90.) 

What  then  is  the  greatest  need  of  our 
present  day?  Is  it  not  what  a  prophet  of 
God  has  proclaimed  it  to  be,  that  the 
thing  that  will  be  of  the  greatest  worth 
unto  us  in  this  modern  day  is  to  recog- 
nize and  appropriate  the  principle 
of  repentance? 

In  the  areas  of  mental  illness,  O.  Ho- 
bart  Mowrer  of  the  University  of  Illi- 
nois makes  this  statement  concerning 
the  benefit  derived  from  repentance  on 
persons  that  are  emotionally  frustrated. 
He  says  when  a  person  "begins  to  accept 
his  guilt  and  his  sinfulness,  the  possi- 
bility of  radical  reformation  opens  up; 
and  with  this,  the  individual  may  legiti- 
mately, though  not  without  pain  and 
effort,  pass  from  deep,  pervasive  self- 
rejection  and  self-torture  to  a  new  free- 
dom, of  self-respect  and  peace."  (The 
American  Psychologist,  O.  Hobart  Mow- 
rer, "Sin:  the  Lesser  of  Two  Evils," 
p.  304.) 

First  Principles;  First  Ordinances 

One  of  our  Articles  of  Faith,  the  con- 
tent of  which  establishes  the  first  prin- 
ciples of  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  reads 
as  follows: 

"We  believe  that  the  first  principles 
and  ordinances  of  the  Gospel  are:  first, 
Faith  in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ;  second, 
Repentance;  third,  Baptism  by  immer- 
sion for  the  remission  of  sins;  fourth, 
Laying  on  of  hands  for  the  gift  of  the 
Holy  Ghost."  (Fourth  article  of  faith. 
Italics  added.) 

May  we  concern  ourselves  briefly 
with  that  phase  of  this  article  which  the 


Second  Day 

Prophet  Joseph  Smith  has  declared  re- 
peatedly to  be  of  the  most  worth  unto 
us,  that  of  repentance,  which  is  the 
forerunner  of  conviction. 

The  agency  of  man  is  not  a  power 
to  be  left  dormant  or  itself  to  be  moved 
upon  solely  by  exterior  forces  for  good 
or  evil.  Man,  if  we  understand  the 
true  meaning  and  purpose  of  agency,  is 
to  be  an  agent  unto  himself,  assuming 
the  prerogative  of  acting  as  a  result  of 
his  own  volition.  Speaking  of  this  the 
Lord  has  said: 

"For  behold,  it  is  not  meet  that  I 
should  command  in  all  things;  for  he 
that  is  compelled  .  .  .  the  same  is  .  .  . 
not  a  wise  servant.  .  .  . 

"Verily  I  say,  men  should  be  anxiously 
engaged  in  a  good  cause,  and  do  many 
things  of  their  own  free  will;  .  .  . 

"For  the  power  is  in  them,  wherein 
they  are  agents  unto  themselves." 
(D&C  58:26-28.) 

For  man  to  know  good  and  evil,  which 
characterizes  him  as  being  in  the  way 
to  become  like  unto  God,  and  then  by 
virtue  of  choice  or  agency  choose  the 
good  rather  than  the  evil,  he  experiences 
the  crowning  achievement  of  inward 
mastery.  In  the  exercise  of  true  re- 
pentance, we  vindicate  unto  ourselves 
the  calling  and  work  of  Jesus  Christ, 
for  without  repentance  there  is  no  real 
purpose  to  his  mission.  Here  lies  the 
measuring  stick  of  achievement  in  earth 
life  probation. 

Repentance,  Basic  Principle  of  Growth 

Repentance,  therefore,  is  a  basic  prin- 
ciple of  our  Christian  faith;  for,  if  a 
man  has  a  desire  in  his  heart  to  know 
the  truth,  the  normal  and  positive  reac- 
tion causes  him  to  know  that  he  has 
participated  in  acts  that  are  wrong  and 
therefore  sinful.  In  this  respect,  all  are 
in  need  of  repentance.  The  Apostle 
James  says  that  if  we  say  we  have  no 
need  of  repentance,  we  are  liars,  and 
the  truth  is  not  in  us.  It  can  be  our 
misfortune  if  we  fail  to  recognize  the 
difference  between  right  and  wrong. 

Repentance  leads  to  conviction,  but 
is  also  unalterably  connected  with  for- 
giveness; and  when  forgiveness  flows 
into  our  consciousness,  we  experience 
a  feeling  of  great  joy,  a  release  of  ten- 
sion and  frustration.    The  Lord  has 


ELDER  ALVIN  R.  DYER 


77 


supplied  the  simple  panacea  to  happi- 
ness through  repentance. 

"By  this  ye  may  know  if  a  man 
repenteth  of  his  sins — behold,  he  will 
confess  them  and  forsake  them."  (D&C 
58:43.  Italics  added.) 

There  should  be  no  discrimination 
against  that  man  or  woman  who  may 
have  done  wrong  in  his  or  her  life. 
Wrong  as  it  may  be,  unless  it  is  the 
unpardonable  sin,  is  not  always  the 
tragedy.  The  real  tragedy  is  when  one 
fails  to  rise  above  a  weakness — to  ex- 
pose that  weakness  to  the  light  so  that 
emotional  stress  and  the  dishonor  of 
sin  may  be  banished  forever.  The 
unhappiest  people  in  the  world  are 
those  who  try  to  hide  their  sins  and 
then  stubbornly  will  not  repent  and 
forsake  their  ways  of  wrong. 

Forgiveness 

I  recall  several  years  ago,  in  line  with 
my  responsibilities  as  a  bishop  of  the 
Church,  of  counseling  with  a  middle- 
aged  married  couple.  Their  lives  were 
not  happy  ones.  They  wanted  to  go 
forward  in  the  Church,  but  something 
seemed  to  mar  the  way.  I  finally  con- 
cluded to  talk  with  each  one  separately. 
After  a  short  while,  with  great  difficulty, 
the  wife  told  me  of  a  transgression  in 
her  life  which  took  place  during  the 
first  week  of  her  marriage.  After  this 
terrible  mistake,  she  resolutely  tried  to 
save  her  marriage  by  hiding  her  sin, 
and  these  many  years  had  not  told  a 
soul  of  this  single  instance.  She  suc- 
ceeded in  keeping  their  marriage, 
largely  because  of  the  sterling  worth  of 
her  fine  husband;  but  there  had  built 
up  inside  of  her,  because  of  the  sin  she 
had  kept  hidden,  such  an  emotional 
stress  that  she  could  not  find  happiness. 

Here  then,  I  determined,  was  the 
cause  for  the  lack  of  complete  happi- 
ness. What  was  she  to  do?  I  said  to 
her  that  when  she  felt  up  to  it  she 
should  confide  completely  in  her  hus- 
band and  seek  his  forgiveness.  At  first 
she  exclaimed,  "I  could  never  do  that!" 
But  somehow  she  got  up  the  courage  to 
do  it  after  biding  her  time.  The  hus- 
band, of  course,  was  shocked;  but  he 
forgave  her;  and  this  brought  peace  and 
happiness  to  that  home. 

Later  this  woman  sought  me  out  to 


express  her  gratitude.  She  said,  as  I 
recall,  "I  have  never  been  so  peaceful 
and  happy  in  my  life."  And  the  hus- 
band, how  did  he  feel?  Well,  I  do  not 
know  fully;  but  I  do  recall  his  words 
to  me  upon  a  later  occasion,  when 
he  said: 

"The  thing  that  provokes  me  is  that 
she  did  not  tell  me  this  years  ago.  I 
would  have  forgiven  her  then,  just  the 
same  as  I  do  now." 

I  have  always  been  impressed  with 
the  fine  sensitivity  of  right  that  existed 
in  a  man  that  I  knew,  who,  upon  his 
deathbed,  sought  not  to  face  his  Maker 
with  a  lie  on  his  lips  even  though  that 
falsehood  which  he  had  perpetrated 
against  a  friend  was  in  his  youth.  This 
wrong  had  stayed  with  him  all  his  life. 

When  sins  are  committed,  emotional 
stress  is  the  result.  The  inward 
machinery  is  thrown  out  of  calibration. 
There  is  only  one  way  to  get  a  release 
from  it — and  this  is  through  repentance. 
True  repentance,  may  I  repeat,  is 
"When  a  man  repenteth  .  .  .  behold, 
he  will  confess  [his  sins],  and  forsake 
them."  (D&C  58:43.  Italics  added.) 

"I  will  remember  them  no  more" 

Under  these  circumstances,  where  the 
forsaking  element  is  positive  and  sure, 
the  Lord  has  said:  "Behold,  he  who  has 
repented  of  his  sins,  [and  forsaken 
them]  the  same  is  forgiven,  and  I,  the 
Lord,  remember  them  no  more." 
(Ibid.,  58:42.) 

Conviction  of  Truth 

To  conclude  my  remarks  let  me  say, 
what  men  need  today  is  conviction — yes, 
conviction  in  a  cause  of  truth.  This 
we  can  attain  through  the  doorway  of 
repentance,  which  leads  to  the  noble 
life.  That  person  who  cannot  recognize 
right  over  wrong  and  then  by  agency 
choose  the  right  will  not  see  the  face 
of  God  our  Heavenly  Father. 

Edward  Martin  wrote  a  poem  which 
could  help  us  to  make  the  decision.  He 
called  it,  "My  Name  Is  Legion." 

"Within  my  earthly  temple  there's  a 
crowd; 

There's  one  of  us  that's  humble,  one 
that's  proud, 


78 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

There's  one  that's  broken-hearted  for  his 
sins, 

There's  one  that  unrepentant  sits  and 
grins; 

There's  one  that  loves  his  neighbor  as 
himself, 

And  one  that  cares  for  naught  but  fame 
and  pelf. 

From  much  corroding  care  I  should  be 
free 

If  I  could  once  determine  which  is  me." 

(Masterpieces  of  Religious  Verse,  New 
York,  Harper  Brothers,  1948,  p.  274.) 

Walter  Malone  in  speaking  of  hope, 
which  could  be  the  ever-present  oppor- 
tunity of  knowing  the  difference  between 
good  and  evil  and  then  to  seek  with 
positive  desire  to  choose  the  good, 
has  said: 

"They  do  me  wrong  who  say  I  come 
no  more 

When  once  I  knock  and  fail  to  find 
you  in; 

.  .  .  Each  night  I  burn  the  records  of 
the  day, 

At  sunrise  every  soul  is  born  again!" 

("Opportunity,"  A  Book  of  Living 
Poems,  New  York:  Albert  Whitman, 
1934,  p.  55.  Italics  added.) 

This  is  a  message  which  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  has 
for  the  world.  Our  missionaries  from 
the  earliest  time,  following  the  sacred 
consultation  which  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ  had  with  Joseph 
Smith  the  Prophet  in  the  Sacred  Grove 
near  Palmyra,  New  York,  have  pro- 
claimed the  need  of  repentance.  This 
they  have  done  and  are  doing  today  in 
nearly  every  country  in  the  world  by 
the  power  of  conviction  and  the  voice 
of  testimony. 

It  is  to  be  hoped  and  prayed  for  that 
civilization  today  will  heed  this  call, 
and  that  130  years  more  will  not  be 
needed  to  render  a  verdict  in  its  behalf. 

I  have  spoken  today  of  but  one  phase 
of  the  fourth  article  of  faith  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

"We  believe  ...  in  repentance  .  .  ." 


Second  Day 

as  it  is  associated  with  faith  and  bap- 
tism by  immersion  for  the  remission  of 
sins  and  the  laying  on  of  hands  for  the 
gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

I  bear  my  testimony  of  the  need  of 
strong  convictions  and  of  positive  action 
in  forsaking  ways  of  error,  of  recogniz- 
ing the  issue  of  right  and  wrong,  and 
then,  through  repentance,  of  choosing 
the  right.  And  I  do  this  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  been  our  concluding 
speaker. 

We  shall  conclude  this  fourth  session 
of  the  one  hundred  and  thirty-fourth 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  with 
the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "Beauti- 
ful Savior,  Lord  of  Nations."  Following 
the  singing  the  benediction  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  A.  Gideon  Omer, 
formerly  president  of  the  Swedish  Mis- 
sion. This  Conference  will  then  be 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

We  express  our  thanks  and  apprecia- 
tion to  the  General  Authorities  who 
have  spoken  to  us,  and  to  the  wonderful 
Choir  for  their  inspiring  singing. 

We  are  also  grateful  to  the  owners 
and  managers  of  the  many  television 
and  radio  stations  who  have  offered 
their  facilities  as  a  public  service  to 
make  the  proceedings  of  this  confer- 
ence available  to  millions  throughout 
South  America,  South  Africa,  and  in 
many  other  areas  of  the  world.  Just 
think  how  different  the  audience  of  this 
annual  conference  is  to  what  it  was 
fifty  years  ago!  We  cannot  adequately 
express  how  much  the  Lord  has  blessed 
us. 

"Beautiful  Savior,  Lord  of  Nations." 
And  the  benediction  will  be  offered  by 
A.  Gideon  Omer. 

An  anthem,  "Beautiful  Savior — Lord 
Of  The  Nations,"  was  sung  by  the 
Choir,  following  which  the  benediction 
was  offered  by  Elder  A.  Gideon  Omer, 
formerly  President  of  the  Netherlands 
Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


PRESIDENT  NATHAN  ELDON  TANNER 


79 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  Sunday  afternoon  session  of  the 
Conference  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  2:00  p.m.  April  5th. 

President  David  O.  McKay  was  pre- 
sent and  presided  at  this  meeting  and 
at  President  McKay's  request  President 
N.  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in 
the  First  Presidency,  conducted  the 
services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  was  present 
and  furnished  the  choral  numbers. 

President  Tanner  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Under  the  direction  of  our  beloved 
President  McKay,  and  at  his  request, 
I  am  conducting  this  session  of  this 
great  conference.  Members  of  the 
Church  are  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square  in  Salt  Lake  City  in 
the  fifth  general  session  of  the  one  hun- 
dred thirty-fourth  Annual  Conference 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

President  McKay  has  asked  me  to 
mention  the  following:  Through  the 
generous  cooperation  of  the  owners  and 
managers  many  television  and  radio 
stations  have  carried  and  will  continue 
to  carry  to  practically  every  state  in  the 
Union  and  to  many  foreign  countries 
the  proceedings  of  some  sessions  of  this 
Conference.  These  stations  are  located 
from  coast  to  coast.  The  names  of  the 
stations  carrying  the  proceedings  of  this 
session  were  announced  to  the  tele- 
vision and  radio  audiences  just  prior 
to  the  opening  of  this  meeting. 

We  appreciate  the  courtesy  of  these 
owners  and  managers  in  broadcasting 
the  programs  of  the  Conference. 

Saturday  evening  an  inspirational 
meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church 
was  held  in  the  Tabernacle.  The  pro- 
ceedings of  this  meeting  were  relayed 
by  closed  circuit  broadcast,  originating 
in  the  Tabernacle,  to  members  of  the 
priesthood  assembled  in  410  separate 
locations  in  all  parts  of  the  United 
States  and  in  Canada.    83,000  holders 


of  the  priesthood  participated  in  this 
meeting. 

This  morning's  broadcast  session  was 
carried  by  many  radio  and  television 
stations  in  the  west  and  by  short  wave 
in  English  over  Station  WRUL  and 
beamed  by  five  transmitters  near  Boston 
to  Europe,  South  America,  Central 
America,  Africa,  and  parts  of  Asia.  We 
have  received  word  from  Indonesia, 
Arabia,  England,  Ireland,  Italy,  South 
America,  Africa,  Turkey,  and  from 
Communist  Cuba,  testifying  that  these 
broadcasts  are  reaching  the  people. 

One  letter  from  Cuba  said,  "We  shall 
never  accept  Communism,  because  the 
Cuban  people  only  believe  in  God,  the 
only  God,  true  friend  of  the  poor  and 
the  oppressed,  and  neither  Communism 
nor  any  other  system  will  be  able  to 
change  our  opinion  although  they  em- 
play  all  the  means  possible  for  carry- 
ing it  out." 

The  Saturday  morning  session,  in 
addition  to  being  broadcast  direct,  was 
video-taped  and  released  this  morning 
over  many  television  stations.  The 
Saturday  morning  session  was  also 
video-taped  and  sent  by  air  to  Hawaii 
and  was  telecast  this  morning.  The 
Saturday  session,  therefore,  reached  the 
largest  audience  both  in  the  United 
States  and  abroad  in  the  history  of  the 
Church. 

The  service  this  afternoon  is  being 
broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  by 
television.  Those  standing  in  the  door- 
ways and  in  the  galleries  may  possibly 
find  seats  in  that  building. 

The  Tabernacle  is  filled  to  overflow- 
ing this  Sunday  afternoon  and  probably 
many  thousands  have  tuned  in  on 
radios  and  televisions.  We  extend  a 
hearty  welcome  to  our  unseen  audience 
and  to  all  who  are  gathered  in  this  great 
hall.  The  proceedings  of  both  sessions 
today  will  be  rebroadcast  to  far  distant 
places  by  Radio  Station  KSL,  April  6, 
1964  from  one  o'clock  to  five  o'clock 
a.m. 

We  again  acknowledge  with  apprecia- 
tion the  presence  of  our  stake  presi- 


80 

Sunday,  April  5 

dencies,  high  councilmen,  bishoprics, 
temple  presidents,  general  auxiliary  offi- 
cers, patriarchs,  and  others  who  are  here 
with  us  today.  We  also  extend  a  cordial 
welcome  and  express  satisfaction  and 
pleasure  in  the  attendance  of  the  special 
guests  and  prominent  men  in  the  nation 
and  the  state. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Richard  P.  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch 
conducting.  Alexander  Schreiner  is  at 
the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  singing,  "O  Divine 
Redeemer"  conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch, 
Assistant  Director.  The  invocation  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  Harry  Haldeman, 
president  of  the  Santa  Barbara  Stake. 

The  opening  number  by  the  Choir 
was  "O  Divine  Redeemer,"  conducted 
by  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Director  of 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

Elder  Harry  J.  Haldeman,  President 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Dan 

of  the  Santa  Barbara  Stake  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  "The  King  of  Glory,"  with 
Sister  Jessie  Evans  Smith  as  soloist,  con- 
ducted by  Richard  P.  Condie. 

After  the  singing,  President  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  first  counselor  in  the  First  Presi- 
dency of  the  Church,  will  address  us. 

The  Choir,  with  Jessie  Evans  Smith, 
soloist,  sang  "The  King  Of  Glory," 
Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  first  coun- 
selor in  the  First  Presidency  of  the 
Church,  will  be  our  first  speaker  this 
afternoon,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Humbly  I  seek  divine  guidance. 

The  Savior  said:  "And  this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the 
only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom 
thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

Revival  of  Religion 

The  remarks  yesterday  of  President 
Mark  E.  Petersen  and  today  of  Presi- 
dent Tanner  and  others,  calling  our 
attention  to  conditions  as  they  exist  in 
the  world,  were  very  challenging. 

Leaders  in  both  scientific  and  re- 
ligious fields  are  calling  for  new  light. 
From  a  sermon  which  was  recently 
preached  in  England  by  an  eminent 
professor  of  theology  and  published  to 
the  world  by  Dean  Inge,  we  read: 

"How  great  is  the  need  in  Britain 
today  for  a  man  to  arise  among  us  to 
lead  a  mighty  crusade  for  the  revival  of 
our  religion.  For  years  all  Christendom 
has  prayed  that  that  revival  might  be 
near,  and  according  as  the  need  is  great, 
so  great  is  the  opportunity.  From  end 
to  end  of  the  land,  north  and  south 
and  west  and  east,  the  feeling  is  arising 


that  something  more  is  required  today 
than  the  advice,  however  good,  of  our 
statesmen,  and  the  ability,  however 
great,  of  our  businessmen,  that  there 
are  problems  to  be  solved  more  urgent 
and  more  fundamental  than  those  of 
economics  and  elections." 

And  then  he  adds:  "The  organized 
churches  offer  no  solution  to  these 
problems.  .  .  .  Men  and  women  look  for 
an  interpreter  of  their  emotions,  for 
someone  who  will  give  expression  to 
their  spiritual  convictions  and  beliefs, 
submerged  too  long  in  a  materialistic 
age.  The  seed  has  been  sown.  It  has 
sprung  up  under  showers  and  sunshine. 
The  grain  is  swollen  inside  the  husk. 
Now  the  field  lies  golden  and  ready  for 
the  harvest.  Where  is  the  man  who 
will  go  in  and  reap?" 

In  the  midst  of  national  and  inter- 
national unrest,  confusion,  and  stress, 
the  questions  of  theology  have  acquired 
a  new  importance  and  urgency.  Through- 
out the  Judaeo-Christian  world,  in  fact 
the  entire  world,  there  is  a  soul-stirring 
search  for  new  meanings  in  religion 


PRESIDENT  HL 

upon  which  men  may  ground  their 
lives  and  establish  their  personal  and 
social  values. 

In  recent  months  an  intense  theo- 
logical debate  has  been  waged  around 
a  volume  entitled  Honest  to  God,  in 
which  Dr.  Robinson,  the  Bishop  of 
Woolwich  of  the  Anglican  Church, 
asks  the  question  whether  it  is  possible 
for  modern  men  to  accept  traditional 
Christian  faith,  to  believe  in  the  estab- 
lished conception  of  God,  and  to  accept 
Christ  as  their  Savior.  He  questions 
whether  Christianity  carries  with  it  the 
trappings  of  an  ancient  world  and  cul- 
ture, and  whether  it  can  be  made  rele- 
vant to  the  thought  and  character  of 
modern  scientific  man,  living  in  a 
rapidly  shrinking  technological  world. 

The  bishop  says,  "Our  image  of  God 
must  go,"  and  the  Church  Times  com- 
ments: "It  is  not  every  day  that  a  bishop 
goes  on  public  record  as  apparently 
denying  almost  every  Christian  doctrine 
of  the  Church  in  which  he  holds 
office."  (The  Honest  to  God  Debate, 
Philadelphia:  Westminster  Press,  1963, 
p.  7.) 

Dr.  Alasdair  Maclntyre  of  the  Uni- 
versity College  of  Oxford  says,  "Dr. 
Robinson's  book  needs  not  only  to  be 
understood  as  a  symptom  of  our  con- 
dition, but  to  be  sympathized  with  as  a 
desperate  attempt  that  cannot  succeed," 
(Ibid.,  p.  227)  and  he  adds,  somewhat 
cynically,  "The  creed  of  the  English  is 
there  is  no  God  and  it  is  wise  to  pray 
to  him  from  time  to  time."  (Ibid.,  228.) 
This  book  of  which  I  speak  is  not  just 
the  voice  of  an  individual,  but  it  "testi- 
fies to  the  existence  of  a  whole  group 
of  theologies  which  have  retained  a 
theistic  vocabulary  but  acquired  an 
atheistic  substance"  (Ibid.,  227)  and  one 
wonders  whether  they  can  continue  to 
co-exist. 

The  Archbishop  of  Canterbury  says, 
".  . .  if  Dr.  Robinson's  argument  is  right, 
the  traditional  views  of  God  are  not 
outmoded,  they  are  simply  false." 
(Ibid.,  217.) 

A  New  Birth  in  Our  Time 

The  argument  that  has  ensued  around 
these  and  other  questions  has  engaged 
the  leading  minds  in  both  Europe  and 
America  recently,  and  they  indicate  a 


JH  B.  BROWN  81 

sense  of  loss,  frustration,  and  failure 
that  are  so  much  a  part  of  modern  life. 
The  hope  is  expressed  that  there  will  be 
a  new  birth  in  our  time  that  will  restore 
something  of  the  meaning  and  value  of 
human  existence. 

We  have  all  felt  the  impact  of  war 
and  economic  depression,  the  dehuman- 
izing influence  of  industrialization,  the 
overcrowding  of  our  cities,  the  ever- 
present  and  ominous  threat  of  nuclear 
war  with  its  total  destruction,  and  the 
myriad  social  forces  that  complicate  our 
lives  and  affect  our  values.  We  share 
the  conscience  of  a  world  in  which 
mass  murder  has  been  real  and  in  which 
millions  go  to  bed  hungry  every  night 
in  the  presence  of  abundance. 

Absolute  Confidence  in  the  Gospel 

While  we  look  forward  hopefully  to 
the  help  we  may  get  from  science  and 
technology  in  our  attempts  to  solve  our 
problems,  we  rely  with  absolute  confi- 
dence upon  the  theology  and  religion  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  for  the  in- 
spiration and  faith  to  sustain  us  in  this 
endeavor,  and  to  this  end  our  spirit- 
ual strength  is  grounded  firmly  on  the 
foundation  of  revealed  religion  and 
the  biblical  conviction  of  the  reality  of 
the  Living  God. 

Unlike  those  whose  religious  faith  is 
uneasy  and  precarious  in  the  modern 
world  of  expanding  scientific  knowledge, 
we  are  at  home  with  the  most  advanced 
truths  discovered  by  scientists  and  with 
all  competent  philosophic  thought — 
with  truth  wherever  found — because  our 
religion  enjoins  in  us  a  love  of  knowl- 
edge and  education,  encourages  us  to 
seek  understanding  through  the  broad- 
ening of  our  vision  and  the  deepening 
of  our  insight.   This  is  an  eternal  quest. 

Newly  Revealed  Truth  Accepted 

The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints  accepts  newly  revealed  truth, 
whether  it  comes  through  direct  reve- 
lation or  from  study  and  research.  We 
deny  the  common  conception  of  reality 
that  distinguishes  radically  between  the 
natural  and  the  supernatural,  between 
the  temporal  and  the  eternal,  between 
the  sacred  and  the  secular.  For  us, 
there  is  no  order  of  reality  that  is  utterly 
different  in  character  from  the  world  of 


82 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

which  we  are  a  part,  that  is  separated 
from  us  by  an  impassable  gulf.  We  do 
not  separate  our  daily  mundane  tasks 
and  interests  from  the  meaning  and 
substance  of  religion.  We  recognize  the 
spiritual  in  all  phases  and  aspects  of 
living  and  realize  that  this  life  is  an 
important  part  of  eternal  life.  We 
aspire  to  the  best  of  which  we  are  in- 
trinsically capable  and  will  think  our 
thoughts,  fashion  our  ideals,  and  pur- 
sue every  task  firm  in  the  faith  that  in 
a  very  real  sense  we  are  living  in  the 
presence  of  God  here  and  now. 

We  accept  the  testimony  of  the  sacred 
scriptures  that  the  purposes  of  God  are 
enacted  in  human  history,  that  he  is 
primarily  interested  in  man's  condi- 
tion and  welfare  though  he  will  never 
trammel  our  free  agency.  His  work  and 
his  glory  is,  as  the  prophets  have  said, 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man. 

Positive  Doctrine  of  Man 

Our  doctrine  of  man  is  positive  and 
life  affirming.  We  declare  unequiv- 
ocally that  by  his  very  nature  every 
man  has  the  freedom  to  do  good  as 
well  as  evil,  that  God  has  endowed  him 
with  a  free  moral  will  and  given  him 
the  power  to  discern  good  from  evil, 
right  from  wrong,  and  to  choose  the 
good  and  the  right.  We  refuse  to  be- 
lieve, with  some  churches  of  Christen- 
dom, that  the  biblical  account  of  the 
fall  of  man  records  the  corruption  of 
human  nature  or  to  accept  the  doctrine 
of  original  sin.  We  do  not  believe  that 
man  is  incapable  of  doing  the  will  of 
God  or  is  unable  to  merit  the  rewards 
of  Divine  approval;  that  he  is  therefore 
totally  estranged  from  God  and  that 
whatever  salvation  comes  to  him  must 
come  as  a  free  and  undeserved  gift.  We 
never  tire  of  proclaiming  the  inspiring 
truth  of  the  gospel  that  man  is  that  he 
might  have  joy.  For  us  the  so-called 
fall  of  man  placed  the  human  spirit  in 
a  world  of  experience  and  adventure 
where  evils  are  real  but  can  be  over- 
come, where  free  moral  decision  is  a 
constant  requirement,  and  where  choices, 
freely  made,  determine  the  quality  of 
life  and  the  eventual  condition  of 
the  soul. 

This  does  not  mean  that  we  are 


Second  Day 

oblivious  to  the  evils  of  the  world,  the 
sins  of  men,  and  the  immeasurable  suf- 
fering that  is  daily  endured  by  millions. 
Ours  is  not  a  superficial  faith  that  sees 
only  the  bright  side  of  life  and  denies 
the  fact  of  human  tragedy.  Our  con- 
science is  wounded  by  the  massive  evils 
that  men  have  perpetrated  in  our  own 
time,  by  sins  that  are  unspeakable  in 
the  depth  of  their  horror.  But  we  have 
the  positive  faith  that  places  the  re- 
sponsibility of  these  sins  squarely  upon 
the  individuals  and  societies  who  com- 
mit them. 

Man,  A  Child  of  God,  Not  Alone 

In  our  theology,  God  did  not  bring 
the  world  into  being  from  nothing.  He 
organized  it  from  existing  materials. 
We  accept  the  scriptural  statement  that 
God  created  man  in  his  own  image. 
".  .  .  in  the  image  of  God  created  he 
him;  male  and  female  created  he  them." 
(Gen.  1:27.)  He  is  engaged  in  a  con- 
stant struggle  with  the  evils  of  the 
world,  to  overcome  whatever  brings 
pain  and  suffering,  frustration  and 
failure,  and  he  asks  that  we  co-operate 
with  him  by  keeping  his  command- 
ments, by  obeying  the  laws  upon  which 
all  blessings  are  predicated.  This  is  the 
meaning  of  the  restored  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ,  that  man  as  a  child  of  God  is 
not  alone  in  the  world,  for  God  shares 
our  suffering  and  delights  in  our  joys. 
In  this  community  with  him  we  can 
overcome  the  world,  achieving  the 
abundant  life  here,  and  immortality 
and  eternal  life  hereafter. 

We  shall  overcome  any  seeming 
contradictions  between  science  and 
religion  if  and  as  we  learn  to  adhere  to 
the  teachings  of  the  restored  Church, 
which  have  always  been  dedicated  to 
the  search  for  knowledge  and  intelli- 
gence, which  is  the  glory  of  God. 

Christianity  Relevant  to  the 
Modern  World 

To  the  question  raised  by  the  Bishop 
of  Woolwich,  "Is  Christianity  relevant 
to  the  modern  world?"  we  find  positive 
and  affirmative  answers  in  the  un- 
equivocal declarations  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  gospel  does  not  be- 
long to  an  antiquated  world  that  has 
passed  away  but  is  a  real  and  power- 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


83 


ful  force  in  our  world  here  and  now. 
It  invests  our  individual  lives  with 
meaning  and  purpose  and  will  yet 
transform  the  course  of  human  history. 

When  we  speak  of  the  unity  of  the 
Godhead,  we  refer  to  the  attributes, 
powers,  and  purposes  of  its  members. 
Jesus  testified  to  the  unity  existing  be- 
tween himself  and  his  Father  on  many 
occasions  as  is  recorded  in  the  Holy 
Bible  and  other  revealed  documents.  He 
referred  to  this  unity  in  his  memorable 
prayer  recorded  in  the  seventeenth 
chapter  of  John,  where  he  prayed  that 
he  and  his  followers  might  be  one  even 
as  he  and  his  Father  are  one. 
(John  17:11.) 

Evidence  of  Intelligence 

It  will  become  clear  to  any  unbiased 
reader  of  the  scriptures  that  the  Father 
is  a  personal  being,  possessing  a  definite 
form  with  bodily  parts  and  spiritual 
passions.  The  Son,  who  was  in  the 
express  image  of  the  Father,  is  a  separate 
identity  by  whom  the  worlds  were  made 
and  without  whom  was  not  anything 
made  that  was  made.  (See  John  1:3.) 
He  was,  in  fact,  a  revelation  of  God. 

We  see  everywhere  in  nature  evidence 
of  cause  and  effect,  of  means  adapted 
to  an  end,  which  indicate  a  given  pur- 
pose. This  is  evidence  of  intelligence, 
and  intelligence  is  an  attribute  of  mind. 
We  must  therefore  conclude  that  it  was 
an  intelligent  mind  that  built  the 
stupendous  universe  of  God. 

Convincing  Knowledge  of  God 

Human  reason  may  not  of  itself  lead 
its  possessor  to  convincing  knowledge 
of  God,  yet  if  properly  exercised  will 
confirm  his  inherited  instinct  toward 
his  maker.  Truly  "the  fool  hath  said 
in  his  heart,  There  is  no  God." 
(Psalm  14:1.) 

We  know  him  to  be  a  living  being 
with  every  essential  property  and  attri- 
bute of  personality — that  he  thinks, 
wills,  feels  that  he  is  a  moral  being 
who  demands  righteousness  and  justice 
— but  that  in  his  love  he  is  compassion- 
ate, merciful,  and  longsuffering. 

For  us  God  is  not  an  abstraction,  he 
is  not  just  an  idea,  a  metaphysical 
principle,  an  impersonal  force  or  power. 
He  is  not  identical  with  the  totality  of 


the  world,  with  the  sum  of  all  reality. 
He  is  not  an  "absolute"  that  in  some 
way  embraces  the  whole  of  reality  in 
his  being.  Like  us,  he  exists  in  a  world 
of  space  and  time.  Like  us,  he  has  ends 
to  be  achieved,  and  he  fashions  a  cos- 
mic plan  for  realizing  them.  He  is  a 
concrete,  living  person,  and  though 
in  our  finite  state  we  cannot  fully  com- 
prehend him,  we  know  that  we  are  akin 
to  him,  for  he  is  revealed  to  us  in  the 
divine  personality  of  his  Son  Jesus 
Christ. 

There  has  been  a  marked  change  in 
the  teachings  of  many  of  the  churches 
concerning  God,  and  many  thinking 
men  and  scholars  now  believe  him  to 
be  a  personal  being  and  not  an  abstract 
essence.  This  is  shown  in  the  book 
A  Century's  Change  in  Religion,  where- 
in the  author,  after  telling  the  beliefs  of 
the  churches  in  America  at  the  begin- 
ning of  the  nineteenth  century,  says,  "It 
is  within  the  last  fifty  years  that  this 
mighty  change  or  extension  of  belief 
has  come  about.  The  new  thought  is 
the  kingdom  of  God  on  earth  in  the 
Christian  society.  The  church  is  now 
dominated  by  this  idea.  The  gospel  of 
the  kingdom  on  earth  is  the  latest,  the 
newest,  the  oldest,  and  the  truest  gospel." 

He  further  adds,  "There  has  been  a 
change  in  our  thought  of  God  from  the 
conception  of  sovereignty  to  this  con- 
ception of  Fatherhood.  The  center  of 
doctrine  has  shifted  from  sovereignty 
to  Fatherhood. 

"God  is  a  person;  He  is  intelligence, 
and  that  is  purpose,  plan;  He  is  will, 
and  that  is  realizing  purpose;  He  is 
love,  that  is,  He  is  person  related  to 
person.  Whatever  more  than  person- 
ality, as  we  know  it,  He  may  be,  He 
is  that  in  perfect  degree  which  our  best 
is  in  imperfect  degree."  (Harris,  George, 
A  Century's  Change  in  Religion,  Bos- 
ton, Houghton-Mifflin,  1914,  p.  251.) 

He  Is  Real  and  Personal 

For  ourselves,  we  reaffirm  our  con- 
viction that  God  is  real  and  personal, 
that  Jesus  the  Christ  is  his  Only  Be- 
gotten Son.  We  rejoice  to  proclaim  to 
the  world  that  he  is  omnipotent, 
omniscient,  and  omnipresent.  Our  an- 
swer, then,  to  the  Bishop  of  Woolwich 
is  that  God  is  real  and  personal,  and 


84 

Sunday,  April  5 

we  are  not  concerned  as  he  seems  to 
be  as  to  whether  he  is  "up  there"  or 
"out  there"  or  whether  this  is  a  three- 
storied  universe.  We  know  that  he 
lives,  that  he  can  and  does  appear  to 
men.  In  fact,  the  whole  structure  of 
Mormonism  is  based  on  revelation.  The 
Father  and  the  Son  were  revealed  to  a 
young  man  in  the  state  of  New  York 
in  1820,  and  since  that  time  many 
glorious  revelations  have  come  to  re- 
assure us  in  our  faith  that  he  lives.  He 
declared  it  to  be  his  work  and  his  glory 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man.  This  is  our  answer, 
then,  to  the  question  whether  it  is  pos- 
sible for  modern  men  to  accept  the  true 
Christian  faith.  It  was  established  by 
Jesus  Christ  in  the  Meridian  of  Time 
and  restored  by  him  in  the  Fulness  of 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Times.  Hence,  we  do  not  share  the 
fear,  uncertainty,  and  confusion  men- 
tioned by  Dean  Inge  or  the  Bishop  of 
Woolwich.  We  call  attention  to  the 
biblical  image  of  God  in  which  he  is 
identified  as  personal,  eternal,  un- 
changeable, and  everlasting,  to  which 
we  humbly  bear  witness  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
President  Hugh  B.  Brown  of  the  First 
Presidency.  Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  As- 
sistant to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next 
speaker,  and  he  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church. 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


There  has  lingered  in  my  mind  since 
yesterday  morning  a  sentence  from  the 
inspired  voice  of  President  David  O. 
McKay.  "Pure  hearts,"  he  said,  "in  a 
pure  home  are  always  within  whisper- 
ing distance  of  heaven."  This  touched 
my  heart.  From  it,  and  from  the  whis- 
pered prayer  of  a  little  youngster  this 
morning,  I  took  assurance  and  found 
an  unexpected  preface  for  the  subject, 
"Suffer  the  little  children  to  come  unto 
me,  .  .  ."  (Mark  10:14.) 

An  associate  of  mine  had  a  little  girl 
undergo  surgery.  They  arranged  for  one 
of  the  parents  to  stay  with  the  little 
youngster  during  the  period  of  recuper- 
ation— for  a  hospital  can  be  a  strange 
and  a  frightening  place  for  a  little 
youngster  who  is  injured  or  ill. 

Coincidentally  she  shared  a  room  at 
the  hospital  with  another  little  girl 
just  the  same  age  who  had  also  under- 
gone surgery.  During  the  long,  painful 
hours  following  the  operation,  this 
little  girl  struggled  almost  convulsively 
against  the  pain,  pleading  incessantly 
for  her  parents.  "Mister,"  she  would 
beg,  "will  you  please  go  find  my 
mommy?"  My  friend,  and  in  turn  his 
wife,  found  themselves  more  at  the  bed 
of  this  little  girl  than  of  their  own 
child,  for  she  seemed  to  need  them  more. 


Finally  in  the  evening  hours  her 
parents  appeared.  They  hurriedly  vis- 
ited for  a  few  minutes  in  a  casual  way 
and  then  nervously  observed  that  they 
had  a  social  engagement  and  left  the 
little  youngster  to  face  her  agony  alone. 

How  well  they  had  taught  the  lesson 
— how  enduringly  they  had  impressed 
upon  the  pliable  little  mind  that  she 
was  an  intrusion  into  their  lives.  How 
unfortunately  typical  they  are  of  many 
parents  who  unwittingly,  unconsciously, 
merely  endure  their  children. 

It  has  been  my  privilege  in  the  past 
to  speak  to  young  people  and  to  fathers. 
Today  I  address  my  remarks  to  mothers 
of  little  children  and  recall  for  their 
contemplation  these  words  from  the 
Gospel  of  St.  Mark: 

"And  they  brought  young  children  to 
him,  that  he  should  touch  them:  and 
his  disciples  rebuked  those  that  brought 
them. 

"But  when  Jesus  saw  it,  he  was  much 
displeased,  and  said  unto  them,  Suffer 
the  little  children  to  come  unto  me, 
and  forbid  them  not:  for  of  such  is 
the  kingdom  of  God."  (Ibid.,  10:13-14.) 

A  Sacred  Influence 

While  the  responsibility  to  guide 
little  children  belongs  to  both  parents, 


ELDER  BOYD  K.  PACKER 


85 


motherhood  carries  with  it  a  special 
sacred  influence.  The  program  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints  will  not  pre-empt  your  privi- 
leges, Mother.  It  is  structured  to 
strengthen  you  as  a  mother.  None  of 
it  is  calculated  to  diminish  your  influ- 
ence in  the  home.  But  since  there  are 
good  mothers' — and  better  mothers — it  is 
patterned  to  strengthen  the  very  quality 
of  your  motherhood.  There  is  a  "Home 
Partnership"  spirit  in  all  that  is  done. 
How  important  it  is  that  every  mother 
be  enthroned  as  a  queen  in  her  home, 
teaching  the  principles  of  life  and  sal- 
vation to  her  little  ones. 

It  is  a  common  practice  for  parents 
to  purchase  insurance  policies  and  open 
savings  accounts  that  the  children  may 
attend  college  or  fulfil  missions.  It  is 
generally  a  good  thing  to  do.  But, 
mothers,  in  all  of  your  looking  into  the 
future,  you  may  do  well  to  look  to  the 
present.  For  premiums  must  be  paid 
on  character,  too,  not  just  monthly  or 
quarterly  or  semiannually,  but  moment 
by  moment,  day  by  day,  year  in,  year 
out.  Character  must  be  built  little  by 
little  ".  .  .  giving  line  upon  line,  precept 
upon  precept;  here  a  little,  and  there 
a  little;  .  .  ."  (D&C  128:21.) 

Teaching  the  Gospel  to  Children 

It  is  not  always  a  solemn  and  sobering 
obligation,  this  teaching  of  the  gospel  to 
the  little  children;  they  have  a  way 
of  making  it  pleasant.  One  mother  in 
South  Carolina  told  me  of  her  young- 
ster who  was  contesting  with  a  neighbor 
child  over  the  question,  Which  is  the 
only  true  church?  Her  child  finally 
said,  "Well,  we  have  a  prophet  at  the 
head  of  our  Church."  The  other  child 
conceded  finally  with  the  thought,  "I 
guess  ours  is  a  non-profit  organization." 

There  is  a  trend  in  the  world  today — 
and  unfortunately  in  the  Church — for 
women  to  want  to  be  emancipated. 
And  we  wonder  at  times — emancipated 
from  what?  From  domesticity?  From 
motherhood?  From  happiness?  And  to 
what  are  you  in  slavery?  Your  children? 
It  is  neither  necessary  nor  desirable  for 
the  mother  of  little  children  to  become 
a  drudge  or  to  be  relegated  to  a  position 
of  servitude.  It  is  not,  however,  un- 
common to  see  women — interestingly 
enough  many  in  the  financially  well- 


to-do  category — over-surfeiting  them- 
selves with  activities  outside  of  the  home 
at  the  expense  of  their  little  children. 

I  have  never  known  a  mother  to  re- 
gret in  the  closing  years  of  her  life  a 
sacrifice  made  for  her  children  or  to 
begrudge  the  cost  of  guiding  them  to 
fine  Christian  citizenship. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  find  almost 
universal  remorse  for  neglect  of  family 
in  the  growing  years  or  for  over-indulg- 
ing children,  which  is  symptomatic  of 
the  most  serious  type  of  neglect. 

Mothers,  do  not  abandon  your  re- 
sponsibilities! Be  reverently  grateful 
for  your  little  children. 

For  Children  Impaired 

I  speak  a  word  to  mothers  who  have 
little  children  who  are  handicapped, 
children  whose  little  bodies  were  born 
incompletely  formed  or  whose  little 
minds  are  limited.  No  one  knows  the 
depth  of  agony  that  you  have  suffered. 
By  way  of  consolation,  I  read  from  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants: 

"Ye  cannot  behold  with  your  natural 
eyes,  for  the  present  time,  the  design  of 
your  God  concerning  those  things 
which  shall  come  hereafter,  and  the 
glory  which  shall  follow  after  much 
tribulation. 

"For  after  much  tribulation  come  the 
blessings.  Wherefore  the  day  cometh 
that  ye  shall  be  crowned  with  much 
glory;  the  hour  is  not  yet,  but  is  nigh 
at  hand."  (D&C  58:3-4.) 

I  recall  the  inspiring  words  of  Elder 
Lee's  message  yesterday  on  this  subject 
and  suggest  that  blessings  will  be  ex- 
tended to  mothers  such  as  you  who 
have  given  tender  and  affectionate  love 
to  handicapped  children.  Trials  such  as 
these  bring  a  reverence  for  life,  a  new 
depth  of  compassion  and  motherhood. 

For  Fostered  Children 

There  are  lovely  mothers,  also,  who 
have  fostered  children  born  by  other 
women.  To  such  the  privilege  of 
motherhood  is  twicefold  more  precious. 
And  there  are  many  mothers  whose  love 
extends  beyond  their  own  family.  In 
elementary  school  I  learned  a  great 
lesson  in  this  regard.  There  were  in 
that  school  several  youngsters  from  a 
family  which  was  not  blessed  with  an 
attentive  mother  at  home. 


86 

Sunday,  April  5 

During  the  school  year  they  were 
afflicted  with  impetigo,  a  common 
disease  of  the  skin  which  is  now  very 
easily  cured.  Because  they  were  not 
bathed  and  because  their  clothing  was 
not  clean,  it  quickly  spread  across  their 
bodies. 

The  principal  of  the  school  asked 
that  my  mother,  who  was  the  room 
mother  for  our  class,  visit  the  home  in 
the  hope  that  she  could  encourage  the 
type  of  care  that  these  children  so  badly 
needed.  "The  woman's  touch,"  he  said, 
"may  be  most  helpful  here." 

Although  she  responded  to  the  re- 
quest, she  failed  in  her  mission,  for  she 
found  circumstances  in  that  home  were 
pitiable.  Well  I  remember  the  invita- 
tion to  bring  these  little  youngsters 
home  from  school  with  us.  And,  I  re- 
member that  they  were  bathed;  medica- 
tion was  applied  to  their  little  bodies; 
they  were  dressed  in  our  clothing;  and 
in  the  early  evening  sent  to  their  own 
home,  the  next  day  to  return  for  the 
same  treatment.  Night  after  night  after 
night  I  remember  my  mother  scrubbing 
endlessly  with  a  bottle  of  disinfectant 
and  then  boiling  clothing  against  the 
possibility  that  her  own  family  might 
become  infected.  But  her  mother's  heart 
would  not  turn  them  away,  for  these 
were  little  children,  and  they  were 
suffering. 

The  demands  made  upon  mothers, 
the  weariness,  the  worry,  the  endless 
vigil,  all  take  their  toll.  But  there  comes 
to  you  a  special  beauty  transcending 
even  that  of  the  blushing  bride.  Such 
beauty  is  alluded  to  in  these  lines  by  an 
unknown  poet  entitled  simply  "Beauty." 

"Beauty" 

"Two  pines  were  born  on  a  hillside 
grove. 

One  protected,  grew  straight  and  tall. 
It  bore  no  time  or  weather  marks. 
Its  figure  was  slim  and  virginal. 

"The  second  showed  clearly  that  time 
had  passed, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

For  it  stood  where  the  winds  stormed  by. 
Its  arms  knew  the  tortuous  weight  of 
snow. 

Its  face  knew  the  sting  of  the  sleet- 
filled  sky. 

"The  first  tree,  so  youthfully  beautiful 
Was  a  picture  the  world  could  all  see. 
But  the  artist  who  climbed  to  the  hill- 
side grove 
Always  painted  the  other  tree." 

This  morning  I  was  compulsively 
drawn  to  turn  and  look  over  my  shoulder 
to  see  Sister  McKay  sitting,  her  face 
almost  framed  by  the  white  orchids  that 
had  been  set  there  next  to  her  chair.  And 
to  the  credit  of  those  who  sent  those 
flowers  I  say  that  they  came  near  to 
being  as  lovely  as  Sister  McKay. 

The  Sphere  of  Mother 

Mothers,  teach  your  children  in  the 
home  the  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Sustain  your  husband  in 
his  presidency  of  the  home.  Draw  from 
the  Priesthood  Home  Teaching  program, 
from  the  Relief  Society,  and  the  other 
auxiliary  agencies  of  the  Church  the 
assistance  to  bless  your  family. 

Teach  your  daughters  the  essentials 
of  homemaking.  Teach  them  to  be 
virtuous.  Train  your  sons  for  service 
in  the  mission  field.  Teach  them  to  be 
worthy.  Teach  them  to  know  that  the 
President  of  the  Church  is  a  prophet 
of  God. 

It  is  easy,  mothers,  for  us  to  love  you, 
because  you  see  the  Lord  loves  you. 
Earn,  mothers  of  little  children,  the 
witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  for  he 
lives.  The  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is 
true.  In  testimony  of  this,  I  give  you 
my  witness,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Boyd  K.  Packer,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church,  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


I  bear  testimony  to  you,  my  brothers 
and  sisters,  that  I,  like  others  who  have 


talked  in  this  conference,  know  that  this 
is  the  kingdom  of  God,  that  this  is  his 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


87 


Church.  I  have  confidence  in  this  work 
and  in  the  missionaries  who  are  teach- 
ing the  gospel,  for  they  are  teaching 
the  truth. 

A  Living,  Loving  Father 

I  know  that  God  lives  and  that  he  is 
a  Loving  Father,  and  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  his  Son.  I  know  he  has  patience 
with  me  as  with  all  because  he  is  a 
Loving  Father,  that  he  has  gone  through 
such  experiences  previously.  Other- 
wise I  would  think  prayers  would  be 
useless  if  he  weren't  a  Living,  Loving 
Father  who  could  answer  them. 

His  Son,  Jesus  Christ 

I  know  that  Jesus  Christ  is  his  Son 
both  in  the  spirit  and  on  the  earth,  for 
Christ  himself  testified  that  God  was 
his  Father.  I  know  the  two  both  ap- 
peared to  Joseph  Smith,  two  separate 
Personages,  and  the  Father  said  to 
Joseph,  "This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear 
Him!"  (Joseph  Smith  2:17),  putting  in 
their  proper  order  of  organization  which 
has  always  been  since  the  time  Adam 
was  driven  out  of  the  Garden  of  Eden. 
Unto  Adam  was  said  as  he  left  that  he 
should  learn  obedience  by  his  own  ex- 
perience. By  partaking  of  the  fruit  he 
was  shut  out  of  the  presence  of  the 
Father,  but  all  that  he  should  receive 
from  then  on  should  come  through  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ. 

Instructions  to  Us 

And  so  we,  as  children  of  Adam,  re- 
ceive our  instructions  from  our  Father 
through  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  and  are 
here  to  learn  obedience  by  our  own 
experience.  The  Lord  gives  us  oppor- 
tunity here  for  trials  through  diffi- 
culties. Many  of  us  think  we  have  a 
most  difficult  row  to  hoe;  what  comes 
to  us  seems  to  be  the  hardest;  but  it 
helps  us  because  we  need  that  training 
probably.  That's  what  it  takes  for  us 
to  attain  perfection,  for  we  must  be  able 
to  go  through  all  the  trials  and  difficul- 
ties in  this  life  which  are  necessary  to 
attain  perfection. 

So  the  Lord,  as  a  Kind,  Loving  Father, 
gives  us  experiences,  stumbling  blocks 
to  stumble  on  by  which  we  may  be 
strengthened;  problems  to  overcome  by 
which  we  may  be  strengthened;  trials 


by  which  we  may  grow  bigger,  stronger; 
so  we  may  attain  the  perfection  he  has 
planned  for  us  through  this  life 
in  mortality. 

Guidance  Through  Prayer 

I  would  invite  all  those  who  are  not 
members  of  the  Church  who  have  a 
desire  to  seek  God,  to  seek  God  through 
prayer  because  he  will  answer  their 
prayers.  He  is  a  True  and  Living  God. 
He  will  answer  their  prayers.  He  may 
not  answer  them  as  you  think  he  may, 
for  our  Father  has  many  languages, 
but  he  will  choose  the  language  which 
is  best  for  you.  It  may  come  to  you 
through  experiences.  Some  may  be 
difficult,  yet  they  will  be  a  lesson  to  you 
which  will  answer  your  prayers.  He 
may  answer  your  prayer  in  a  way 
which  will  make  you  stronger,  help  you 
to  progress,  and  give  you  the  burning  in 
your  heart  that  this  is  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  restored  in  these  the 
latter  days. 

His  Way  Best 

I  testify  to  you  that  this  knowledge 
has  come  to  me,  not  from  just  one  little 
experience  but  over  a  lifetime.  I  have 
often  said  to  myself  in  my  younger 
days,  as  trials  and  difficulties  came 
along,  "The  Lord's  way  is  the  best 
way."  As  long  as  conditions  are  beyond 
my  control,  then  I  leave  them  up  to 
the  Lord.  I  worry  only  about  those 
things  that  are  in  my  control,  and  those 
things  I  try  to  make  better  and  ask  the 
Lord  to  help  me. 

Through  those  experiences  through 
life  with  that  as  my  guide  and  wherein 
the  Lord  is  my  guide,  I  have  learned 
to  know  without  a  doubt  that  the 
Father  and  the  Son  did  appear  to 
Joseph  Smith;  that  these  truths  which 
have  been  referred  to  by  others  in  this 
conference  were  given  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  Oliver  Cowdery; 
that  the  kingdom  of  God  is  now  estab- 
lished upon  the  earth  in  this  the  last 
Dispensation  of  the  Fulness  of  Times, 
in  the  Saturday  evening  of  time,  never 
again  to  be  taken  from  the  earth;  and 
that  this  is  the  time  of  preparation  for 
the  ushering  in  of  the  millennium  when 
Christ  himself  will  come  and  reign  on 
the  earth. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

I  bear  you  my  testimony  that  I  know 
this  to  be  true,  I  know  this  is  the  gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ,  and  do  so  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Eldred  G.  Smith,  patriarch  to  the 
Church,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  The 
congregation  and  Choir  will  now  join 
in  singing,  "High  On  the  Mountain 
Top,"  conducted  by  Jay  E.  Welch.  After 
the  singing  Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor, 


Second  Day 

Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  will  address  us. 

The  Choir  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "High  On 
The  Mountain  Top,"  conducted  by  Jay 
E.  Welch. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  be  our 
next  speaker,  and  he  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  TAYLOR 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


In  the  year  1842,  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith  was  invited  to  submit  a  statement 
setting  forth  the  beliefs  of  the  newly 
organized  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints.  In  response  to  that 
invitation,  he  directed  a  communication 
now  known  as  the  "Wentworth  Letter." 
This  inspired  document  contained 
among  other  things,  thirteen  concise, 
comprehensive  declarations  of  belief, 
familiarly  called,  "The  Articles  of 
Faith." 

The  first  of  these  Articles  of  Faith 
states:  "We  believe  in  God,  the  Eternal 
Father,  and  in  His  Son,  Jesus  Christ, 
and  in  the  Holy  Ghost." 

We  Believe  in  God 

Now,  if  we  believe  in  God  with  all 
our  hearts  and  seek  to  know  him  as 
he  would  have  us  know  him,  then  he 
will  be  an  anchor  to  our  lives,  giving 
meaning  and  purpose  to  them.  The 
Savior  once  said,  emphasizing  this 
point:  "And  this  is  life  eternal,  that 
they  might  know  thee  the  only  true 
God,  and  Jesus  Christ  whom  thou  hast 
sent."  (John  17:3.) 

What  do  we  know  about  God,  our 
Heavenly  Father? 

First.  We  are  actually  his  children. 
He  is  the  Father  of  our  spirits.  In  our 
prayers,  we  properly  address  him  as 
our  Father  in  heaven. 

Second.  We  are  created  in  his  image 
and  after  his  likeness. 

Third.  He  is  a  glorified,  immortal, 
resurrected  being,  possessing  a  body  of 


flesh,  bones,  and  spirit. 

And  fourth.  We  once  dwelt  in  his 
presence  and  may  return  to  be  again 
with  him,  provided  we  do  the  things 
required  to  achieve  and  merit  this 
blessed  privilege. 

To  these  truths  the  scriptures  have 
attested,  and  inspired  men  have  testified. 

"Hallowed  be  Thy  Name" 

We  have  been  admonished  to  "Love 
the  Lord  thy  God,  with  all  thy  heart, 
might,  mind,  and  strength."  (See  Luke 
10:27.)  And  with  this  love  also  goes  a 
deep  respect  and  reverence  for  him. 
Jesus  recognized  this  truth  when  he 
taught  his  disciples  how  to  pray.  As 
he  addressed  the  Father  in  prayer,  he 
said:  ".  .  .  Our  Father  which  art  in 
heaven,  Hallowed  be  thy  name."  (Matt. 
6:9.)  When  Jesus  regarded  the  name 
of  the  Lord  as  "hallowed,"  can  we  do 
less?  Should  we  in  any  manner  pro- 
fane that  hallowed  name? 

When  the  Prophet  Moses  received  the 
Ten  Commandments  midst  the  thun- 
derings  and  lightnings  of  Mt.  Sinai,  the 
Lord  proclaimed:  "Thou  shalt  not  take 
the  name  of  the  Lord  thy  God  in  vain; 
for  the  Lord  will  not  hold  him  guilt- 
less that  taketh  his  name  in  vain." 
(Deut.  5:11;  Exod.  20:7.) 

Moses,  too,  knew  by  revelation  that 
the  name  of  God  is  hallowed.  And  yet, 
everyday,  we  hear  thoughtless,  uncouth, 
irreverent  persons  violate  this  com- 
mandment as  they  blaspheme  the  name 
of  our  Heavenly  Father  in  profane  oaths. 

In  ancient  times,  the  Higher  Priest- 
hood was  called,  "The  Holy  Priesthood 


ELDER  HEN1 

after  the  order  of  the  Son  of  God."  Out 
of  respect  and  reverence  for  the  name  of 
the  Supreme  Being  and  to  avoid  the 
too  frequent  repetition  of  his  name, 
they,  the  Church,  called  that  priesthood 
after  Melchizedek,  king  of  Salem  and 
priest  of  the  Most  High  God,  to  whom 
Abraham  paid  tithes.  (See  D&C  107:2- 
4.)  Is  it  not  a  striking  fact  that  in  all 
periods  of  the  world  good  men  have 
held  the  name  of  God  in  highest 
reverence? 

Too  often  today  individuals  in  fits  of 
rage  and  uncontrollable  anger  profane 
the  name  of  Deity,  and  too  frequently 
they  do  it  in  ordinary  conversation.  The 
Lord,  through  one  of  his  prophets, 
warned  that:  ".  .  .  the  tongue  ...  is  an 
unruly  evil,  full  of  deadly  poison." 
(James  3:8.)  However,  through  the 
exercise  of  self-control  and  by  engag- 
ing in  earnest  prayer,  it  is  possible  to 
learn  to  govern  one's  speech  or 
utterances. 

Clean  and  Simple  Speech 

In  addition  to  taking  the  name  of 
God  in  vain,  profanity,  cursing,  and 
oath  taking  are  also  displeasing  to  the 
Lord.  We  have  been  counseled  to  keep 
our  speech  clean  and  simple.  The  Lord 
loves  a  clean  mouth  as  well  as  a  pure 
heart.  This  is  evidenced  by  one  of  the 
Master's  own  powerful  statements  in 
which  he  said:  "But  I  say  unto  you, 
Swear  not  at  all;  neither  by  heaven;  for 
it  is  God's  throne: 

"Nor  by  the  earth;  for  it  is  his  foot- 
stool: neither  by  Jerusalem;  for  it  is 
the  city  of  the  great  King. 

"Neither  shalt  thou  swear  by  thy 
head,  because  thou  canst  not  make  one 
hair  white  or  black. 

"But  let  your  communication  be, 
Yea,  yea;  Nay,  nay:  for  whatsoever  is 
more  than  these  cometh  of  evil." 
(Matt.  5:34-37.) 

A  modern-day  writer,  Frank  Crane, 
has  made  an  interesting  observation  on 
the  objectionable  habit  of  swearing  in 
these  words,  which  I  quote: 

"The  trouble  with  profanity  is  not 
so  much  that  it  is  wicked,  as  that  it  is 
just  plain  dirty. 

"It  is  not  so  much  that  you  shock 
religious  people,  as  that  you  disgust 
decent  people.  .  .  . 


'  D.  TAYLOR  89 

"Swearers  are  behind  the  times.  They 
are  holdovers  from  a  former  century. 

"Nowadays  anybody  who  swears  is 
set  down  at  once  as  being  coarse  and 
vulgar. 

"The  young  man  who  wants  to  suc- 
ceed needs  to  take  advantage  of  every- 
thing that  may  help  him  on.  And 
swearing  will  be  a  black  mark  against 
him  in  any  job  he  may  have.  And  if 
he  wants  to  associate  with  the  right  sort 
of  girl,  he  must  keep  his  talk  clean. 

"Nobody  wants  a  swearer  in  the 
office,  nor  in  the  workshop,  nor  on  the 
train,  nor  in  the  hotel.  The  only  place 
swearing  fits  is  in  the  saloon. 

"Swearing  means  you  don't  know 
how  to  talk.  Your  vocabulary  is  limited. 
It  is  a  sign  of  ignorance. 

"Swearing  means  weakness.  You  will 
notice  that  forceful  men,  whose  words 
carry  weight,  use  simple  plain  words. 

"When  you  swear  it  shows  your  im- 
potence. It  is  the  petty  refuge  of  the 
helpless.  If  you  can  help  a  thing,  help 
it;  if  not,  keep  still;  anyway,  do 
not  swear. 

"Swearing  has  bad  kin.  It  goes  with 
ignorance,  brutality,  cruelty,  drunken- 
ness, licentiousness,  viciousness,  and 
anger.  And  you  can  tell  a  habit  by  the 
company  it  keeps.  .  .  . 

"To  abstain  from  swearing  does  not 
mean  you  are  a  sissy,  it  simply  means 
you  are  decent. 

"To  show  you  are  manly,  you  don't 
have  to  have  a  dirty  face,  nor  black 
fingernails,  nor  greasy  clothes,  nor 
touseled  hair.  You  can  be  manly 
though  clean,  and  you  are  not  showing 
any  manliness  by  filthy  talk.  .  .  . 

"Altogether,  swearing  is  a  useless,  un- 
clean, and  offensive  habit. 

"Quit  it!"  (Roy  A.  Welker,  Preparing 
for  Marriage,  Independence,  Mo.:  Zion's 
Printing  and  Publishing,  1942,  pp. 
190-91.) 

It  is  difficult  to  imagine  such  men 
as  Abraham,  Moses,  Lincoln,  Joseph 
Smith,  or  President  McKay  profaning 
the  name  of  God.  How  would  you  re- 
gard them  or  what  kind  of  opinion 
would  you  form  concerning  them,  if 
they  were  guilty  of  such  blasphemy? 

Try  to  form  in  your  minds  a  picture 
of  the  mother  of  the  human  race,  or 
the  mother  of  the  Savior,  or  your  own 


90 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

mother  sprinkling  vile  oaths  through 
her  speech.  You  shudder  to  think  of 
such  a  thing,  but  by  the  very  laws  of 
decency,  it  is  no  worse  for  them  to  do 
it  than  for  you. 

Speech  Reflects  Mind  and  Heart 

The  writer  of  Proverbs  in  referring 
to  man  declares:  "For  as  he  thinketh 
in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  (Prov.  23:7.) 
What  is  in  our  hearts  and  minds  is 
reflected  in  our  speech. 

A  person  who  is  striving  to  pattern 
his  or  her  life  after  that  of  the  Savior 
will  be  pure  in  thought  and  action.  His 
or  her  speech  will  then  be  clean,  digni- 
fied, and  worshipful.  Jesus  said:  ".  .  . 
out  of  the  abundance  of  the  heart  the 
mouth  speaketh."  (Matt.  12:34.)  And 
".  .  .  thy  speech  bewrayeth  thee,"  de- 
clared someone  to  Peter,  one  of  the 
Savior's  Apostles.  (Ibid.,  26:73.)  And  a 
heart  that  is  full  of  goodness,  will  utter 
good  and  kind  thoughts  through  well- 
chosen  words,  the  symbols  that  repre- 
sent one's  thoughts. 


Second  Day 

Now  a  word  of  encouragement  to 
you,  my  young  friends  of  the  Church 
and  the  world:  Make  your  speech  pure 
and  warm  and  dignified,  devoid  of  vile- 
ness  and  profanity.  Let  it  be  of  such 
a  nature  and  character  that  the  world 
will  be  attracted  to  you  because  of  it. 
Make  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  your  ideal 
and  pattern  after  his  speech  and  his 
ways.  And  as  surely  as  you  do  this, 
he  will  magnify  you  and  make  you 
mighty  before  your  fellow  men,  which 
I  promise  you,  and  I  testify  unto  you 
that  God  lives,  that  the  gospel  is  true, 
in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Elder  Victor  L.  Brown,  second  coun- 
selor in  the  Presiding  Bishopric,  will 
now  speak  to  us,  and  he  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


A.  B.  Wells  describes  an  experience  she 
had  one  time:  "The  great  overland  bus 
came  to  a  stop.  I  looked  out  of  the 
window  to  see  the  fringe  of  a  small 
town.  On  the  other  side  of  the  high- 
way, pastureland  stretched  in  many 
rolling  acres.  Cattle  nibbled  at  the 
grass  made  green  by  recent  rains. 

"Suddenly,  I  turned  from  that  peace- 
ful scene  to  see  the  reason  for  our  stop. 
One  lone  passenger  entered.  The  young 
man,  hesitating  a  bit,  looked  shyly 
around.  Noting  the  vacant  place  be- 
side me,  he  asked  haltingly,  'Do  you 
mind  if  I  sit  here?' 

"  'Not  at  all,'  I  answered,  'I  like  com- 
pany when  I  travel.    Do  sit  down.' 

"He  removed  his  cap  and  slid  into 
the  seat.  After  a  moment  he  inquired, 
'Going  far,  lady?' 

"  'Only  as  far  as  Fort  Worth,  that  is 
my  home,'  I  replied.  'We  will  be  there 
in  a  little  less  than  an  hour.' 

"'Think  of  that,'  he  said,  with  a 
seeming  air  of  relief.  'I've  been  hoping 
I'd  run  into  someone  from  there.  Don't 


know  much  about  the  place;  I  grew  up 
on  a  ranch  far  out  beyond  where  I 
boarded  the  bus.  I'm  on  my  way  to 
Fort  Worth,  but  I  don't  know  how  to 
find  the  school,  once  I  am  there.' 

"  What  school  is  that?  Maybe  I  can 
help  you,'  I  said. 

"  'It's  that  real  big  school;  college,  I 
guess  you  would  call  it.'  Then  he 
went  on  gravely,  'You  see,  I'm  just  out 
of  the  Army,  and  I'll  get  to  start  school. 
Servicemen  can  go,  you  know,  and 
Uncle  Sam  pays  for  it.' 

"  'You  will  be  a  student  at  Texas 
Christian  University?'   I  asked. 

"Attitude  Test" 

"  'Oh,  I  don't  know  just  where  they'll 
send  me,  but  I'm  all  excited  over  having 
the  chance  to  go  at  all.  You  see  I  didn't 
have  much  schoolin'  as  I  grew  up.  But 
before  I  get  started  anywhere  I  have  to 
go  to  the  Fort  Worth  School,  an'  take 
what  they  call  an  'attitude'  test.  After 
I  take  it,  they  will  know  where  to 
send  me.' 


BISHOP  VICTOR  L.  BROWN 


91 


"  'Poor  dear,'  I  mused,  'he  means 
aptitude,  but  I  can't  embarrass  him  by 
explaining.' 

"After  a  short  silence  he  asked  en- 
thusiastically, 'Ain't  it  wonderful  what 
they  are  doing  for  us  guys — sending  us 
to  school?' 

"'Well,'  I  suggested,  'the  government 
feels  that  you  did  a  lot  for  your  coun- 
try; it  is  the  least  the  country  can  do 
for  you.' 

"'Maybe,'  he  drawled,  'but  what's 
fighting  a  few  battles  amount  to,  if  a 
fellow  can  get  educated?  I'm  getting 
the  big  end  of  the  deal,  lady.  I've  made 
up  my  mind  to  study  real  hard.  I  don't 
want  Uncle  Sam's  money  throwed  away 
on  me.' 

"Later,  we  stood  in  the  Fort  Worth 
bus  station.  In  his  shirt  pocket  was  the 
slip  of  paper  on  which  I  had  written 
the  directions  for  finding  the  school  that 
was  to  give  him  his  'attitude'  test. 

"With  a  strong  calloused  hand  he 
gripped  mine.  'Thanks  a  million, 
ma'am;  I  feel  like  I  am  already  on  my 
way  to  gettin'  that  schoolin'.  Ain't  it 
wonderful?' 

"As  I  settled  myself  and  my  bags  in  a 
taxi,  I  began  to  review  in  my  mind  the 
gratitude  and  enthusiasm  displayed  by 
the  prospective  student.  'Why,'  I 
thought,  'he  has  the  priceless  ingredient 
for  success — a  right  attitude.  Perhaps 
he  used  the  correct  word  after  all!'" 
(Sunshine  Magazine,  September  1963.) 

With  this  kind  of  attitude,  this  young 
man  will  climb  to  the  pinnacle  of  suc- 
cess. Without  it,  he  could  fumble 
along,  living  a  life  of  mediocrity. 

What  kind  of  attitude  do  we  have? 
What  would  happen  if  we  were  to 
take  an  attitude  test?  May  I  suggest 
that  each  one  of  us  review  his  attitude. 
What  motivates  us  into  doing  the  things 
we  do?  Are  we  really  happy  and  en- 
thusiastic about  life  or  is  it  somewhat 
of  a  bore? 

"Count  Your  Blessings" 

Dr.  C.  H.  Baylor,  assistant  medical 
director  of  The  Texas  Company,  says 
that  whether  one  is  happy  or  unhappy 
is  largely  a  matter  of  either  remembering 
or  forgetting  to  count  one's  blessings 
along  the  way  of  life.  He  lists  some  of 
the  most  common  unhealthy  thinking 


habits,  which,  of  course  result  from 
attitude: 

First,  to  forget  the  many  good  things 
in  life  you  have  and  overemphasize  the 
few  things  you  lack. 

To  think  that  money  is  more  im- 
portant than  it  actually  is. 

To  think  that  you  are  indispensable. 

To  think  that  you  have  too  much  to 
do. 

To  think  that  you  are  exceptional  or 
entitled  to  special  privileges. 

To  forget  that  a  sense  of  responsibility 
is  essential  to  a  democratic  society. 

To  forget  others. 

To  cultivate  a  pessimistic  outlook. 

To  feel  sorry  for  yourself. 

Let's  take  this  last  one:  to  feel  sorry 
for  yourself.  I  suppose  that  almost 
everyone  in  this  world  has  one  problem 
or  another.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  some- 
one has  said  that  if  we  should  gather 
all  of  the  problems  that  we  have  into  a 
great  pile  and  then  be  permitted  to  take 
back  the  one  we  would  like  to  have,  we 
would  probably  take  back  our  own. 

Whether  we  are  bowed  down  with 
sorrow  and  gloom  or  whether  we  face 
each  day  with  a  smile  depends  upon  our 
attitude.  Let  me  tell  you  about  a  young 
woman  who  had  a  problem  and  yet 
she  greeted  each  day  with  a  smile. 

This  young  woman  was  a  high  school 
student,  happy,  vivacious,  loved  life. 
One  day,  the  doctors  informed  her  that 
it  would  be  necessary  to  amputate  her 
leg  because  of  cancer.  This  was  done. 
She  went  back  to  school  on  her  crutches, 
still  full  of  life,  loving  every  minute  of 
it,  and  then  she  was  informed  that  her 
operation  had  been  unsuccessful  and 
that  her  life  was  drawing  to  a  close 
very  rapidly. 

Now,  this  young  woman's  attitude 
could  have  been  one  of  bitterness  to- 
ward everything  in  life,  but  rather,  she 
was  an  inspiration  to  her  family  and 
her  friends  because  of  her  wonderful 
attitude.  In  her  own  words,  she  said, 
"I  am  thankful  for  the  many  blessings 
I  have  received  throughout  my  life  and 
for  my  wonderful  parents  and  family. 
I  am  especially  thankful  for  this  won- 
derful gospel  and  for  those  who  give 
their  time  to  teach  it  to  us.  I  truly 
appreciate  the  teachers  I  have  had  in 
Sunday  School,  Primary,  and  MIA." 


92 

Sunday,  April  5 

And  she  goes  on,  "Before  my  opera- 
tion, I  prayed  that  my  leg  might  be 
saved.  The  Lord  told  me  no,  and 
afterward  I  thought  how  selfish  and 
earthly  my  prayer  had  been.  I  could 
only  see  the  present,  and  it  certainly 
didn't  seem  that  there  could  be  anything 
for  the  best  by  losing  a  leg.  The  Lord 
can  see  much  more,  and  he  has  the 
best  interests  of  our  whole  future  and 
eternity  in  mind." 

This  was  the  attitude  of  a  teenager,  a 
lovely  girl  who  had  the  full  knowledge 
that  her  life  was  almost  over.  She  had 
no  way  of  knowing  how  far-reaching 
her  glorious  attitude  would  be  in  help- 
ing others  improve  theirs. 

Child  of  Unusual  Talents 

Let  me  tell  you  about  some  friends 
of  mine  who  responded  to  this  test  so 
wonderfully.  Just  fourteen  years  ago, 
they  were  blessed  with  their  firstborn, 
a  son  whom  they  named  Carl.  They 
were  living  in  Germany  at  the  time. 
Carl's  father  was  a  member  of  the 
Armed  Forces  of  the  United  States.  They 
were  later  transferred  to  the  United 
States  and  subsequently  moved  from 
one  Army  post  to  another.  As  little 
Carl  began  to  grow,  it  became  obvious 
that  he  was  a  child  of  unusual  talents. 
At  the  age  of  five,  he  was  able  to 
transpose  some  of  the  simple  pieces  of 
music  from  the  major  to  the  minor 
key.  At  the  age  of  eight,  he  sang  the 
male  lead  in  the  school  Christmas 
musical  opposite  a  girl  in  the  fifth  grade. 
He  began  to  compose  his  own  musical 
scores  and  played  in  a  number  of  con- 
certs. He  became  a  Cub  Scout.  He 
won  two  blue  ribbons  in  the  "Pine- 
wood  Darbies."  He  played  football 
with  his  school  team.  At  the  age  of 
eleven,  he  won  the  outstanding  scholas- 
tic award  at  his  school  in  Ft.  Leaven- 
worth, Kansas.  He  composed  several 
short  symphonic  pieces  and  some  con- 
certinas. He  finished  reading  the  Book 
of  Mormon  before  his  eleventh  year. 
He  finished  reading  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  the  Pearl  of  Great  Price, 
and  almost  finished  the  Bible  before  he 
was  twelve  years  of  age. 

He  was  ordained  a  deacon  in  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood  on  his  twelfth 
birthday.  As  his  father  said,  "He  looked 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

upon  the  honoring  of  the  priesthood 
as  a  sacred  duty  and  an  opportunity 
second  to  none." 

About  six  months  after  Carl  was  or- 
dained a  deacon,  it  was  found  that  he 
was  afflicted  with  an  inoperable  can- 
cerous brain  tumor.  He  was  taken  to 
one  of  the  finest  hospitals  in  the  entire 
country  in  Washington,  D.C.  It  was 
finally  determined  that  medical  science 
was  unable  to  help  him  further. 

At  this  time,  Carl  recognized  the 
seriousness  of  his  illness  and  the  possi- 
bility that  it  might  be  fatal  to  him.  He 
refused  to  be  sorrowed  by  this  knowl- 
edge and  was  anxious  to  pursue  all  the 
learning  he  could  get. 

He  was  tutored  at  home  by  a  most 
wonderful  teacher  and  was  very  well 
along  in  his  eighth  grade  studies  before 
the  disease  incapacitated  him. 

Here  was  a  young  man  not  quite  thir- 
teen years  of  age,  endowed  with  ex- 
ceptional talent,  whose  attitude  was  an 
inspiration  not  only  to  his  family  but 
also  to  all  who  knew  him.  As  his  father 
said,  "After  Carl  finally  understood  the 
seriousness  of  his  illness,  he  refused  to 
be  sorrowed  by  this  knowledge  and  was 
anxious  to  pursue  all  the  learning  that 
he  could  get." 

And  what  was  the  attitude  of  Carl's 
parents?  Their  eldest  son,  the  joy  of 
their  lives,  a  boy  with  brightest  of  pros- 
pects for  life  taken  from  them  just 
before  his  thirteenth  year! 

Thankful  for  Thirteen  Years 

What  bitterness  could  have  enveloped 
them.  They  could  have  taken  the  at- 
titude that  the  Lord  was  unjust.  They 
had  lived  good  lives.  Why  did  this  have 
to  happen  to  a  boy  with  such  bright 
prospects?  But  rather,  this  was  their 
attitude,  in  their  own  words:  "We  shall 
be  eternally  grateful  for  the  thirteen 
wonderful  years  that  we  were  privileged 
to  have  him  in  our  midst.  We  know 
that  we  are  blessed  in  the  knowledge 
that  we  are  sealed  as  an  eternal  family. 
We  know  that  Carl  was  preparing  to 
fill  a  mission.  We  know  that  he  was 
prepared  for  that  mission  and  that  he  is 
now  filling  it."  No  self-pity  here,  but 
rather  an  attitude  of  faith  and  hope 
and  optimism,  even  under  the  most 
trying  of  circumstances! 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


93 


Attribute  of  Spirituality 

There  are  many  who  could  tell  just 
such  stories,  many  whose  attitude  has 
carried  them  and  their  loved  ones 
through  dark  pathways  into  the  sun- 
light. To  each  of  them  I  express  grati- 
tude. They  are  in  very  deed  an 
inspiration. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  God  lives 
and  that  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  is  direct- 
ing this,  his  work,  through  our  great 
President  and  his  servant,  David  O. 


McKay,  and  that  if  we  will  develop 
the  right  attitude  toward  the  Master 
and  his  teachings,  we  will  be  privileged 
to  return  to  his  presence,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Bishop  Victor  L.  Brown  of  the  Presid- 
ing Bishopric.  Elder  Spencer  W.  Kim- 
ball of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will 
be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  brothers  and  sisters  and  friends  the 
world  over,  we  bring  you  greeting: 

As  members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  we  declare 
in  all  solemnity  the  reality  of  God  the 
Eternal  Father  and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ, 
as  like  as  any  father  and  son,  yet  dis- 
tinct individuals.  On  more  than  one 
occasion  the  Christ  has  made  known 
that  a  knowledge  and  acquaintance  with 
God  is  basic  to  exaltation. 

"This  is  eternal  lives — to  know  the 
only  wise  and  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  he  hath  sent.  I  am  he." 
And  then  his  command:  "Receive  ye, 
therefore,  my  law."  (D&C  132:24.) 

Neither  the  Father  Elohim  nor  the 
Son  Jehovah  would  alienate  himself 
from  the  children  of  men.  It  is  they, 
the  men,  who  cut  themselves  off  if 
there  be  estrangement.  Both  the  Father 
and  the  Son  would  gladly  commune 
and  associate  with  men.  But  men  must 
be  Godlike,  pure,  and  perfected  to  attain 
such  stature.  Even  with  this  high  de- 
gree of  worthiness,  men  must  still  be 
protected  from  the  brilliance  and  glory 
of  the  heavenly  personages. 

Prize  of  Great  Worth 

If  I  were  to  tell  you  that  in  your  own 
back  yard  you  could  find  an  acre  of 
diamonds,  would  you  ignore  the  sug- 
gestion and  take  no  trouble  to  search? 
Today,  I  am  telling  you  that  in  easy 
reach  there  is  a  prize  of  inestimable 
worth.  Diamonds  can  buy  one  food 
and  shelter.  Diamonds  can  sparkle  and 
glitter.  Diamonds  can  embellish  and 
decorate.   But  the  prize  which  is  within 


your  grasp  is  more  brilliant  than  jewels. 
It  will  not  tarnish  nor  be  subject  to 
market  trends.  I  speak  of  the  greatest 
gift — the  gift  of  eternal  life.  It  may 
not  be  obtained  through  mere  wishing; 
it  cannot  be  purchased  with  money; 
hopeful  wishing  will  not  bring  it,  but 
it  is  available  to  men  and  women  the 
world  over.  There  have  been  long 
periods  of  history  when  the  total  truth 
was  not  immediately  available  to  the 
inhabitants  of  the  earth.  But  in  our 
day,  the  whole  eternal  program  is  here 
and  can  carry  men  to  exaltation  and 
eternal  life  all  the  way  to  Godhood. 
Jeremiah  declared: 

"For  my  people  have  committed  two 
evils;  they  have  forsaken  me  the  foun- 
tain of  living  waters,  and  hewed  them 
out  cisterns,  broken  cisterns,  that  can 
hold  no  water."  (Jer.  2:13.) 

And  Amos  predicted: 

"Behold,  the  days  come,  saith  the 
Lord  God,  that  I  will  send  a  famine 
in  the  land,  not  a  famine  of  bread,  nor 
a  thirst  for  water,  but  of  hearing  the 
words  of  the  Lord: 

"And  they  shall  wander  from  sea  to 
sea,  and  from  the  north  even  to  the 
east,  they  shall  run  to  and  fro  to  seek 
the  word  of  the  Lord,  and  shall  not 
find  it."  (Amos  8:11-12.) 

Spiritual  Famine  Ended 

After  centuries  of  spiritual  darkness, 
described  by  Amos  and  Jeremiah,  we 
solemnly  announce  to  all  the  world 
that  the  spiritual  famine  is  ended,  the 
spiritual  drought  is  spent,  the  word  of 
the  Lord  in  its  purity  and  totalness  is 


94 

Sunday,  April  5 

available  to  all  men.  One  needs  not 
wander  from  sea  to  sea  nor  from  the 
north  to  the  east,  seeking  the  true  gos- 
pel as  Amos  predicted,  for  the  everlast- 
ing truth  is  available. 

Jeremiah  the  prophet  again  asked 
the  question:  "Shall  a  man  make  gods 
unto  himself,  and  they  are  no  gods?" 
(Jer.  16:20.)  In  spite  of  all  the  gods 
which  men  make  for  themselves  and 
the  confusion  incident  thereto,  the  Liv- 
ing and  True  God  is  in  his  heaven  and 
is  available  to  his  children. 

The  Master  himself  gave  the  basic 
truth  that  eternal  life  is  available  to 
those  people  only  who  have  a  knowledge 
of  the  Father  and  the  Son. 

The  most  important  question  one 
can  ask  himself  is  this:  Do  I  really 
know  God  the  Father  and  Jesus  Christ 
his  Son?  And  in  the  answer  is  the 
difference  between  floundering  through 
indecision  or  having  sureness  and 
certainty. 

The  Lord  promised: 

".  .  .  every  soul  who  forsaketh  his 
sins  and  cometh  unto  me,  and  calleth 
on  my  name,  and  obeyeth  my  voice, 
and  keepeth  my  commandments,  sliall 
see  my  face  and  know  that  I  am;" 
(Ibid.,  93:1.  Italics  added.) 

The  Beatitudes  of  Christ  add:  "Blessed 
are  the  pure  in  heart:  for  they  shall  see 
God."  (Matt.  5:8.) 

The  Way  to  Celestial  Life 

Celestial  life  may  be  had  by  every 
soul  who  will  fulfil  the  requirements. 
To  know  is  not  enough.  One  must  do. 
Righteousness  is  vital  and  ordinances 
are  necessary. 

Jehovah  proclaims: 

"But  no  man  is  possessor  of  all  things 
except  he  be  purified  and  cleansed  from 
all  sin."  (D&C  50:28.  Italics  added.) 

And  the  Redeemer  continues:  "And 
surely  every  man  must  repent  or  suf- 
fer. .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  19:4.) 

"...  7,  God,  have  suffered  these  things 
for  all,  that  they  might  not  suffer  if  they 
would  repent; 

"But  if  they  would  not  repent,  they 
must  suffer  even  as  I; 

"Which  suffering  caused  myself,  even 
God,  the  greatest  of  all  to  tremble  be- 
cause of  pain.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  19:16-18. 
Italics  added.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

"I  am  Jesus  Christ,  the  Son  of  God, 
who  was  crucified  for  the  sins  of  the 
world,  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  35:2.  Italics  added.) 

There  are  three  Gods:  the  Eternal 
Father,  Elohim,  to  whom  we  pray; 
Christ  or  Jehovah;  and  the  Holy  Ghost 
who  testifies  of  the  others  and  witnesses 
to  us  the  truth  of  all  things. 

Many  seem  to  delight  in  confusing 
the  matter  with  their  rationalizations 
and  human  calculations.  The  Father 
and  the  Son,  in  whose  image  we  are 
created,  separate  and  distinct  beings, 
have  identifed  themselves  through  the 
ages. 

The  Christ  declared  himself  to  be 
the  Lord  God  Almighty,  Christ  the  Lord, 
the  beginning  and  the  end,  the  Re- 
deemer of  the  world,  Jesus  the  Christ, 
the  mighty  one  of  Israel,  the  Creator, 
the  Son  of  the  Living  God,  Jehovah. 

The  Father  Elohim  declares  Jesus  to 
be  Mine  only  Begotten  Son,  the  word 
of  my  power.  And  twice,  at  least,  at 
the  Jordan  baptism  and  then  on  the 
Mount  of  Transfiguration,  he  declared: 

"This  is  my  beloved  Son  in  whom  I 
am  well  pleased."  (See  Mark  1:11,  Luke 
3:22)  and  stated  that  "the  worlds  were 
made  by  him:  Men  were  made  by  him: 
All  things  were  made  by  him,  and 
through  him  and  of  him." 

The  Bible  gives  much  secular  and 
religious  history  and  much  in  glorious 
teachings.  But  even  with  the  scriptures, 
confusion  continues  in  the  Christian 
world. 

To  Know  God 

To  know  God,  one  must  be  aware  of 
the  person  and  attributes,  power,  and 
glory  of  God  the  Father  and  God  the 
Christ.  Moses  declares  he  ".  .  .  saw  God 
face  to  face,  and  he  talked  with  him.  .  ." 
(Moses  1:  2.)  This  experience  of  Moses 
is  in  harmony  with  the  scripture, 
which  says: 

"For  no  man  has  seen  God  at  any 
time  in  the  flesh,  except  quickened  by 
the  Spirit  of  God.  Neither  can  any 
natural  man  abide  the  presence  of  God, 
neither  after  the  carnal  mind."  (D&C 
67:11-12.  Italics  added.) 

It  must  be  obvious  then  that  to  endure 
the  glory  of  the  Father  or  of  the  glorified 
Christ,  a  mortal  being  must  be  trans- 
lated or  otherwise  fortified.    Moses,  a 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


95 


prophet  of  God,  held  the  protecting 
Holy  Priesthood:  ".  .  .  and  the  glory  of 
God  was  upon  Moses;  therefore  Moses 
could  endure  his  presence."  (Moses  1:2.) 

Grease  on  the  swimmer's  body  or  a 
heavy  rubber  skin  diver's  suit  may  pro- 
tect one  from  cold  and  wet;  an  asbestos 
suit  might  protect  a  fire-fighter  from 
flames;  a  bullet-proof  vest  may  save  the 
policeman  from  assassin's  bullets;  one's 
heated  home  may  protect  from  winter's 
chilling  blasts;  deep  shade  or  smoked 
glass  can  modify  the  withering  heat 
and  burning  rays  of  the  midday  sun. 
There  is  a  protective  force  which  God 
brings  into  play  when  he  exposes  his 
human  servants  to  the  glories  of  his 
person  and  his  works. 

Moses  explained  that  he  could  en- 
dure the  divine  presence  because  ".  .  . 
the  glory  of  God,"  (idem)  was  upon 
him. 

Jehovah  said:  "Wherefore,  no  man 
can  behold  all  my  works,  except  he 
behold  all  my  glory;  and  no  man  can 
behold  all  my  glory,  and  afterwards 
remain  in  the  flesh  on  the  earth." 
(Ibid.,  1:5.) 

In  heavenly  glorious  vision,  Moses 
".  .  .  beheld  the  world  .  .  .  and  all  the 
children  of  men.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  1:8.) 
It  is  significant  to  note  that  when  the 
protection  from  such  transcendent  glory 
was  relaxed,  that  Moses  was  left  weak 
and  near  helpless. 

The  scripture  says:  "And  the  presence 
of  God  withdrew  from  Moses,  that  his 
glory  was  not  upon  Moses;  and  Moses 
was  left  unto  himself.  And  ...  he  fell 
unto  the  earth."  (Ibid.,  1:9.)  Many 
hours  elapsed  before  he  could  regain 
his  natural  strength.  He  exclaimed: 
".  .  .  mine  own  eyes  have  beheld  God 
.  .  .  my  spiritual  eyes,  for  my  natural 
eyes  could  not  have  beheld;  for  I  should 
have  withered  and  died  in  his  presence; 
but  his  glory  was  upon  me;  and  I 
beheld  his  face,  for  I  was  transfigured 
before  him."  (Ibid.,  1:11.) 

The  Tempter 

There  is  another  power  in  this  world 
forceful  and  vicious.  In  the  wilderness 
of  Judaea,  on  the  temple's  pinnacles  and 
on  the  high  mountain,  a  momentous 
contest  took  place  between  two  brothers, 
Jehovah  and  Lucifer,  sons  of  Elohim. 


When  physically  weak  from  fasting, 
Christ  was  tempted  by  Lucifer:  "If  thou 
be  the  Son  of  God,  command  this  stone 
that  it  be  made  bread."  (Luke  4:3.) 

On  the  temple's  pinnacles,  the  Evil 
One  taunted  again,  suggesting  the  un- 
warranted use  of  power:  ".  .  .  Thou  shalt 
not  tempt  the  Lord  thy  God."  (Ibid., 
4:12.) 

On  a  high  mountain  the  devil  tanta- 
lized the  Christ,  offering  kingdoms, 
thrones,  powers,  dominions,  satisfac- 
tions of  urges,  desires,  passions,  the 
glory  of  wealth,  ease,  comfort — all  to 
possess  on  condition  that  he  worship 
Lucifer. 

The  Lord  in  his  mortality  was 
tempted  but  resisted:  "Get  thee  hence, 
Satan:  .  .  ."  (Matt.  4:10)  he  said. 

Abraham  was  tempted;  Moses  and  all 
men  must  prove  themselves. 

Now  came  Satan,  contending  for  the 
subservience  of  Moses.  Satan,  also  a 
son  of  God,  had  rebelled  and  had  been 
cast  out  of  heaven  and  not  permitted  an 
earthly  body  as  had  his  brother  Jehovah. 
Much  depended  upon  the  outcome  of 
this  spectacular  duel. 

And  again,  could  the  mastermind, 
Lucifer,  control  and  dominate  this 
Prophet  Moses  who  had  learned  much 
directly  from  his  Lord?  "Moses,  son  of 
man,  worship  me,"  the  devil  tempted, 
with  promise  of  worlds  and  luxuries  and 
power.    But,  he  courageously: 

".  .  .  looked  upon  Satan  and  said, 
Who  art  thou?  For  behold,  I  am  a  son 
of  God,  in  the  similitude  of  his  Only 
Begotten.  .  .  ."  (Moses:  12:13.)  And 
Moses  knew  well  his  role  and  was  pre- 
pared for  this  master-mind: 

".  .  .  where  is  thy  glory,  that  I  should 
worship  thee? 

"For  behold,  I  could  not  look  upon 
God,  except  his  glory  should  come  upon 
me,  and  I  were  strengthened  before  him. 
But  I  can  look  upon  thee  in  the  natural 
man.  Is  it  not  so  surely?"  he  taunted. 
(Ibid.,  1:13-14.) 

"Blessed  be  the  name  of  my  God, 
for  his  Spirit  hath  not  altogether  with- 
drawn from  me,  or  else  where  is  thy 
glory,  for  it  is  darkness  unto  me? 

"And  I  can  judge  between  thee  and 
God";  (Ibid.,  1:15.)  The  contrast  was 
compelling.  Moses  the  priesthood  bearer 
must  be  protected  to  see  Jehovah  but 


96 

Sunday,  April  5 

could  face  this  impostor  with  his  natural 
eyes  and  without  discomfort.  What 
a  contrast! 

And  with  full  knowledge  now  and 
with  great  fortitude  the  prophet  de- 
manded: "Get  thee  hence,  Satan;  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  1:16.) 

The  liar,  the  tempter,  the  devil  un- 
willing to  give  up  this  possible  victim, 
now  in  rage  and  fury:  ".  .  .  cried  with  a 
loud  voice,  and  rent  upon  the  earth, 
and  commanded,  saying,  I  am  the  Only 
Begotten,  worship  me."  (Ibid.,  1:19.) 

Moses  recognized  the  deception  and 
saw  the  power  of  darkness  and  the 
"bitterness  of  hell."  Here  was  a  force 
not  easily  reckoned  with  nor  evicted. 
Terrified,  he  called  upon  God,  then 
commanded  with  new  power:  "I  will 
not  cease  to  call  upon  God  ...  for  his 
glory  has  been  upon  me,  wherefore  I 
can  judge  between  him  and  thee." 
(Ibid.,  1:18.) 

".  .  .  In  the  name  of  the  Only  Be- 
gotten, depart  hence,  Satan."  (Ibid., 
1:21.) 

Not  even  Lucifer,  the  Star  of  the 
Morning,  the  arch-enemy  of  mankind 
can  withstand  the  power  of  the  priest- 
hood of  God.  Trembling,  quaking,  curs- 
ing, weeping,  wailing,  gnashing  his 
teeth,  he  departed  from  the  victorious 
Moses. 

Protected 

When  properly  protected  with  the 
glory  of  God,  and  when  sufficiently  per- 
fected, man  can  see  God. 

Again,  the  glory  of  the  Lord  was  upon 
him  and  he  heard  the  promise:  ".  .  . 
thou  shalt  deliver  my  people  from 
bondage.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  1:26.) 

".  .  .  and  thou  shalt  be  made  stronger 
than  many  waters;  for  they  shall  obey 
thy  command  as  if  thou  wert  God." 
(Ibid.,  1:25.) 

What  a  promise.  What  power!  As 
one  hears  this  promise  from  the  God 
of  heaven,  one  can  envision  water  com- 
ing from  the  rock,  manna  from  the 
sky,  quails  from  the  bushes,  and  the 
waters  of  the  sea  rolling  back  to  provide 
dry  crossing  for  the  refugee  children  of 
Israel. 

A  heavenly  visitor  identified  himself 
to  Abraham:  "I  am  the  Lord,  thy  God; 
I  dwell  in  heaven.  .  .  . 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

"My  name  is  Jehovah.  .  .  ."  (Abra- 
ham 2:7-8.) 

And  Abraham:  ".  .  .  talked  with  the 
Lord,  face  to  face,  as  one  man  talketh 
with  another;  .  .  . 

"And  he  said  unto  me:  My  son,  my 
son  .  .  .  And  he  put  his  hand  upon 
mine  eyes,  and  I  saw  those  things  which 
his  hands  had  made  .  .  .  and  I  could  not 
see  the  end  thereof."  (Ibid.,  3:11-12.) 

Abraham  was  protected  so  that  he  not 
only  could  withstand  the  glory  of  the 
Lord,  but  he  could  see  and  comprehend. 
The  visions  which  Abraham  saw  at  this 
time  before  his  sojourn  in  Egypt  were 
beyond  all  description.  Perhaps  no 
soul  even  with  the  strongest  telescopes 
has  ever  seen  the  thousandth  part  of 
what  Abraham  saw  as  to  this  universe 
with  all  its  limitless  parts  and  func- 
tions. He  also  saw  the  creation  of  this 
earth,  and  the  Father  is  quoted: 

"And  worlds  without  number  have  I 
created;  and  I  also  created  them  for 
mine  own  purpose;  and  by  the  Son  I 
created  them,  which  is  mine  Only 
Begotten  Son."  (Moses  1:33.) 

How  great  the  power  of  God,  the 
majesty  of  God,  the  glory  of  God!  Again, 
when  Jehovah  came  to  call  Saul  of 
Tarsus  to  his  mission,  the  vision  was 
given  to  him  only. 

"And  the  men  which  journeyed  with 
him  stood  speechless,  hearing  a  voice, 
but  seeing  no  man."  (Acts  9:7.) 

But  Saul  of  Tarsus  saw  Jehovah,  the 
glorified  Christ,  and  heard  his  voice 
and  conversed  with  him.  Even  par- 
tially protected  as  he  was,  the  brilliance 
of  the  light  from  heaven  in  which  he 
centered — greater  than  the  noonday 
sun — -Paul  collapsed  to  the  earth,  trem- 
bling, shocked.  The  voice  said:  "I  am 
Jesus  whom  thou  persecutest.  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  9:5.) 

So  intense  and  brilliant  was  the 
light  that  even  with  such  protection, 
he  was  blinded.  He  said:  "And  when  I 
could  not  see  for  the  glory  of  that  light, 
being  led  by  the  hand  of  them  that  were 
with  me,  I  came  into  Damascus." 
(Ibid.,  22:11.) 

A  priesthood  miracle  restored  sight  to 
Paul  after  three  days  of  total  darkness. 
The  glory  of  the  Lord!  How  great 
and  magnificent! 

Paul  told  Timothy:  ".  .  .  Christ  .  .  . 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


97 


".  .  .  is  the  blessed  and  only  Poten- 
tate, the  King  of  kings,  and  the  Lord 
of  lords, 

"Who  only  hath  immortality,  dwell- 
ing in  the  light  which  no  man  can 
approach  unto;  whom  no  man  hath 
seen,  nor  can  see:  .  .  ."  (1  Tim.  6:14- 
16.) 

Enoch  also  needed  protection,  for  the 
Lord,  speaking  to  Enoch,  said: 

"Anoint  thine  eyes  with  clay,  and 
wash  them,  and  thou  shalt  see.  .  .  . 

And  he  beheld  the  spirits  that  God 
had  created,  and  he  beheld  also  things 
which  were  not  visible  to  the  natural 
eye;  .  .  ."  (Moses  6:35-36.) 

The  godless  dared  not  touch  him  ".  .  . 
for  fear  came  on  all  of  them  that  heard 
him;  for  he  walked  with  God."  (Ibid., 
6:39.) 

Daniel  was  worried  so  much  so  that 
he  mourned  for  three  weeks  and  took  no 
pleasant  bread  nor  meat  nor  wine. 
Then  came  his  vision  which  he 
alone  saw: 

"...  I  retained  no  strength,"  he 
said, 

"Yet  heard  I  the  voice  of  his  words: 
.  .  .  then  was  I  in  a  deep  sleep  on  my 
face,  and  my  face  toward  the  ground. 

"And  behold,  an  hand  touched  me, 
which  set  me  upon  my  knees  and  upon 
the  palms  of  my  hands. 

"And  when  he  had  spoken  such 
words  unto  me,  I  set  my  face  toward 
the  ground,  and  I  became  dumb." 
(Dan.  10:8-10,  15.) 

Another  World 

There  is  another  world  with  which  we 
mortals  are  little  acquainted.  It  may 
not  be  far  from  us.  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  the  Presidency  of  the  Church, 
came  to  know  the  power  of  God.  These 
three  central  figures  climbed  the  high 
mountain  with  the  Lord  Jehovah, 
while  he  was  yet  in  the  mortal  world 
before  his  crucifixion.  In  the  high 
mountain  was  solitude,  apartness,  and 
privacy. 

What  a  glorious  experience!  The  Son 
of  God,  their  Master,  "was  transfigured 
before  them,  and  his  face  did  shine  as 
the  sun,  and  his  raiment  was  white  as 
the  light"  (Matt.  17:2)  and  heavenly 
beings  Moses  and  Elias  appeared 
to  them.   "...  a  bright  cloud  over- 


shadowed them:  and  behold  a  voice 
out  of  the  cloud,  which  said,  This  is  my 
beloved  Son,  in  whom  I  am  well 
pleased;  Hear  ye  him."  (Ibid.,  17:5. 
Italics  added.) 

The  glory  of  the  contact  was  more 
than  they  could  bear  and  they  collapsed, 
falling  on  their  faces.  While  in  this 
state  unprintable,  unspeakable,  un- 
utterable things  were  said  and  done. 
The  three  mortals  thus  protected  sur- 
vived even  this  withering  fiery  experience. 

Realizing  that  death  by  martyrdom 
was  imminent  and  that  a  verbal  witness 
could  be  forgotten  and  that  his  im- 
portant knowledge  must  be  perpetuated 
down  through  the  ages,  Peter  bore  his 
solemn  witness  in  writing.  No  fable 
was  this,  no  conjuring  of  the  imagina- 
tion was  this,  no  imagination  of  human 
minds  was  this  ...  it  was  real  and 
certain: 

"Eyewitnesses  of  His  Majesty" 

"(we)  .  .  .  were  eyewitnesses  of  his 
majesty. 

"For  he  (Christ)  received  from  God 
the  Father  honour  and  glory,  when 
there  came  such  a  voice  to  him  from 
the  excellent  glory,  This  is  My  beloved 
Son,  in  whom  I  am  well  pleased. 

"And  which  voice  came  from  heaven 
we  heard,  when  we  were  with  him  in 
the  holy  mount."  (2  Pet.  1:16-18. 
Italics  added.) 

The  pattern  was  established,  the 
chart  made,  the  blueprint  drawn.  Under 
special  need,  at  special  times,  under 
proper  circumstances,  God  reveals  him- 
self to  men  who  are  prepared  for  such 
manifestations.  And  since  God  is  the 
same  yesterday,  today,  and  forever,  the 
heavens  cannot  be  closed  except  as 
men  lock  them  against  themselves 
with  disbelief. 

In  our  own  dispensation  came  another 
similar  grandiose  experience.  The  need 
was  imperative;  an  apostasy  had  cov- 
ered the  earth  and  gross  darkness  the 
people,  and  the  minds  of  men  were 
clouded,  and  light  had  been  obscured 
in  darkness.  The  time  had  come. 
Religious  liberty  would  protect  the  seed 
until  it  could  germinate  and  grow.  And 
the  individual  was  prepared  in  the 
person  of  a  youth,  clean  and  open- 
minded,  who  had  such  implicit  faith 


98 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  5 

in  the  response  of  God  that  the  heavens 
could  not  remain  as  iron  and  the  earth 
as  brass  as  they  had  been  for  many 
centuries. 

The  Prophet's  Vision 

This  budding  prophet  had  no  precon- 
ceived false  notions  and  beliefs.  He 
was  not  steeped  in  the  traditions  and 
legends  and  superstitions  and  fables  of 
the  centuries.  He  Had  nothing  to  un- 
learn. He  prayed  for  knowledge  and 
direction.  The  powers  of  darkness 
preceded  the  light.  When  he  knelt 
in  solitude  in  the  silent  forest,  his 
earnest  prayer  brought  on  a  battle  royal 
which  threatened  his  destruction.  For 
centuries,  Lucifer  with  unlimited  do- 
minion had  fettered  men's  minds.  He 
could  ill-afford  to  lose  his  satanic  hold. 
This  threatened  his  unlimited  dominion. 
Let  Joseph  Smith  tell  his  own  story: 

"...  I  was  seized  upon  by  some  power 
which  entirely  overcame  me  ...  to  bind 
my  tongue.  .  .  .  Thick  darkness  gathered 
around  me,  and  it  seemed  to  me  for  a 
time  as  if  I  were  doomed  to  sudden 
destruction. 

".  .  .  at  the  very  moment  when  I  was 
ready  to  .  .  .  abandon  myself  to  destruc- 
tion— not  to  an  imaginary  ruin  but  to 
the  power  of  some  actual  being  from  the 
unseen  world.  ...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light 
exactly  over  my  head,  above  the  bright- 
ness of  the  sun. 

"...  I  found  myself  delivered  from 
the  enemy  which  held  me  bound.  When 
the  light  rested  upon  me,  I  saw  two 
Personages,  whose  brightness  and  glory 
defy  all  description,  standing  above  me 
in  the  air.  One  of  them  spake  unto 
me,  calling  me  by  name  and  said,  point- 
ing to  the  other — This  is  My  Beloved 
Son.  Hear  Him!"  (Joseph  Smith 
2:15-17.) 

Young  Joseph  finally  recovered  his 
voice  and  asked  the  pertinent  questions 
for  which  he  had  come  and  a  conversa- 
tion ensued,  most  of  which  was  for- 
bidden him  to  write.  He  continues: 
".  .  .  When  I  came  to  myself  again,  I 
found  myself  lying  on  my  back,  looking 
up  into  heaven.  .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  2:20.) 

Joseph  had  had  the  same  general  ex- 
perience of  Abraham  and  Moses  and 
Enoch  who  had  seen  the  Lord  and  heard 
his  voice.    In  addition,  he  heard  the 


Second  Dmj 

Father,  bearing  witness  of  the  Son,  as 
had  Peter,  James,  and  John  on  Trans- 
figuration's Mount.  He  had  seen  the 
person  of  Elohim.  He  had  fought  a 
desperate  battle  with  the  powers  of  dark- 
ness as  had  Moses  and  Abraham.  And 
like  them  all,  he  was  protected  by  the 
glory  of  the  Lord.  This  young  man 
gave  a  new  concept  to  the  world.  Now 
at  least  one  person  knew  God  without 
question,  for  he  had  seen  and  heard. 

Again  the  Prophet  reports  the  veil  was 
lifted  from  their  minds  and  the  eyes  of 
their  understandings  were  opened  and 
he  and  Oliver  Cowdery  in  the  temple 
saw  the  Lord  Jehovah  who  said  unto 
them: 

"I  am  the  first  and  the  last.  I  am 
he  who  liveth,  I  am  he  who  was  slain; 
I  am  your  advocate  with  the  Father." 
(D&C  110:4.) 

"His  eyes  were  as  a  flame  of  fire; 
the  hair  of  his  head  was  white  like  the 
pure  snow;  his  countenance  shone  above 
the  brightness  of  the  sun;  and  his  voice 
was  as  the  sound  of  .  .  .  great  waters. 
.  .  ."  (Ibid.,  110:3.) 

"We  Saw  Him" 

And  on  another  occasion,  the  prophet 
speaks  of  the  Only  Begotten  Son: 
"We,  .  .  .  being  in  the  spirit.  .  . 
"(we  could)  see  and  understand  the 
things  of  God — 

'(and  the)  Only  Begotten  Son. 


'Of  whom  we  bear  record; 


whom 


we  saw  and  with  whom  we  conversed 
in  the  heavenly  vision."  (Ibid.,  76:11-14.) 

".  .  .  and  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shone 
round  about. 

"And  we  beheld  the  glory  of  the 
Son,  on  the  right  hand  of  the  Father, 
and  received  of  his  fulness; 

"And  saw  the  holy  angels,  and  them 
who  are  sanctified  before  his  throne, 
worshiping  God,  and  the  Lamb,  who 
worship  him  forever  and  ever. 

"And  now,  after  the  many  testimonies 
which  have  been  given  of  him,  this  is 
the  testimony,  last  of  all,  which  we 
give  of  him:  That  he  lives! 

"For  we  saw  him,  even  on  the  right 
hand  of  God;  and  we  heard  the  voice 
bearing  record  that  he  is  the  Only 
Begotten  of  the  Father."  (Ibid.,  76:19- 
23.) 

"And  this  we  saw  also  and  bear  rec- 


ELDER  SPENCER  W.  KIMBALL 


99 


ord,  that  an  angel  of  God  who  was  in 
authority  in  the  presence  of  God,  who 
rebelled  against  the  Only  Begotten  Son 
whom  the  Father  loved  and  who  was  in 
the  bosom  of  the  Father,  was  thrust 
down  from  the  presence  of  God  and 
the  Son, 

"And  was  called  Perdition,  for  the 
heavens  wept  over  him — he  was  Lucifer, 
a  son  of  the  morning."  (Ibid.,  76:25-26.) 

And  eternal  life  again  was  made 
available  to  men  in  the  earth,  for  does 
not  the  scripture  say:  "And  this  is  life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the 
only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.)  And  so 
we  return  to  the  promise  made  on  the 
hill  in  Palestine.  "Blessed  are  the  pure 
in  heart:  for  they  shall  see  God." 
(Matt.  5:8.) 

Men  who  know  God  and  love  him 
and  live  his  commandments  and  obey 
his  true  ordinances  may  yet  in  this  life, 
or  the  life  to  come,  see  his  face  and 
know  that  he  lives  and  will  commune 
with  them. 

Our  friends,  I  invite  further  inquiry. 
I  testify  to  these  truths,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  N.  Eldon  Tanner: 

Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just  given 
the  concluding  address. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  from 
Handel's  "Messiah,"  conducted  by 
Richard  P.  Condie.  The  benediction 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Cashell  Dona- 
hoe,  president  of  the  Virginia  Stake. 


The  music,  as  you  know,  for  this 
afternoon  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Again  their  singing 
has  been  inspirational,  at  both  sessions 
today  and  also  on  Saturday  morning 
when  their  singing  was  heard  by  mil- 
lions. God  bless  the  officers  and  the 
members  of  this  great  organization.  It 
would  be  impossible  to  estimate  the 
good  that  this  group  of  singers  is  doing. 
Letters  and  messages  testify  to  the  hap- 
piness and  inspiration  they  bring  not 
only  to  members  of  the  Church  but  to 
music  lovers  all  over  the  world. 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Union  Conference  will  convene  in  this 
building  at  seven  o'clock.  All  Sunday 
School  workers  will  wish  to  be  in  at- 
tendance and  the  public  is  cordially 
invited. 

It  is  understood  that  ward  Sacrament 
meetings  will  be  held  where  practicable 
this  evening  in  the  various  wards. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  will  now  favor 
us  with  the  "Hallelujah  Chorus"  con- 
ducted by  Richard  P.  Condie.  After  the 
benediction  by  Elder  Cashell  Donahoe, 
president  of  the  Virginia  Stake,  the  gen- 
eral session  of  this  conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  ten  o'clock  Monday 
morning. 


As  a  concluding  number  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  sang  the  "Hallelujah 
Chorus,"  (Handel's  Messiah). 

President  Cashell  Donahoe,  President 
of  the  Virginia  Stake,  offered  the  clos- 
ing prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Monday, 
April  6  at  10:00  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 


MORNING  MEETING 


The  General  Conference  of  the 
Church  reconvened  Monday  morning, 
April  6,  1964. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  exercises  of  the 
session. 

The  choral  music  for  this  Confer- 
ence session  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  John  R.  Halliday,  Conductor; 
Frank  W.  Asper,  Organist. 


President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

For  the  information  of  those  who  are 
tuned  in  by  radio  or  television  we  an- 
nounce that  we  are  assembled  here  in 
the  famed  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
in  Salt  Lake  City  in  the  sixth  session  of 
the    one    hundred    and  thirty-fourth 


100 

Monday,  April  6 

Annual  Conference  of  the  Church. 
These  services  are  being  broadcast  in 
the  Assembly  Hall  by  television.  Those 
standing  in  the  doorways  may  possibly 
find  seats  in  this  building,  and  possibly 
not.  (Laughter) 

This  session  of  the  Conference  will 
be  broadcast  as  a  public  service  over 
television  and  radio  stations  throughout 
the  West.  The  names  of  the  stations 
were  announced  prior  to  the  beginning 
of  this  meeting.  We  again  express  ap- 
preciation for  this  service  that  is  being 
rendered  by  these  stations. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attend- 
ance on  this  week-day  session  of  United 
States  Senators  Honorable  Wallace  F. 
Bennett  and  Honorable  Frank  E.  Moss; 
United  States  House  of  Representatives, 
Honorable  Sherman  P.  Lloyd  and  Hon- 
orable Laurence  J.  Burton.  We  wel- 
come our  Governor,  Honorable  George 
D.  Clyde;  and  our  mayor,  Honorable 
J.  Bracken  Lee;  and  Honorable  Lamont 
F.  Toronto,  Secretary  of  State.  Educa- 
tional institutions  are  represented  this 
morning  by  Dr.  Harvey  L.  Taylor  of 
the  Unified  Church  School  System; 
Honorable  Earl  C.  Crockett,  acting 
president  of  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity; President  of  the  University  of 
Utah,  Dr.  A.  Ray  Olpin;  Dr.  James  C. 
Fletcher,  who  will  take  charge  of  the 
University  of  Utah  after  June  1st; 
President  of  the  Utah  State  University, 
Dr.  Daryl  Chase;  Dixie  College,  Dr. 
Arthur  Bruhn;  Superintendent  of  State 
Schools,  Dr.  T.  H.  Bell. 

We  welcome  all  those  who  are  hear- 
ing this  historic  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  on  the  air. 

This  session  of  the  conference  will  be 
broadcast  as  a  public  service  over  tele- 
vision and  radio  stations  throughout  the 
west.  We  again  express  appreciation  for 
this  service  that  is  being  rendered  by 
these  stations.  Both  of  the  sessions 
today  will  be  rebroadcast  starting  at  one 
o'clock  tomorrow  morning,  and  can  be 
heard  in  many  parts  of  the  United 
States  including  Alaska  and  in  Canada, 
Mexico,  the  Islands  of  the  Pacific,  and  in 
many  other  parts  of  the  world. 

We  acknowledge  the  following  tele- 
grams: President  Finn  B.  Paulsen  of  the 
Brazilian  South  Mission  reports,  "Ex- 
cellent reception  Portuguese  broadcast. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Good  reception  in  English  broadcast 
earlier.  Brazilian  South  Mission  mem- 
bers and  missionaries  are  grateful  for 
the  inspiration  received. 

From  President  Fyans  of  the  Uru- 
guayan Mission:  "Thousands  of  Saints 
in  Uruguayan  nation  listening  to  and 
being  inspired  by  conference.  Our 
hearts  are  with  you." 

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  attend- 
ance this  morning  of  the  special  guests 
named.  We  are  also  pleased  to  wel- 
come our  stake  and  ward  officers  from 
far  and  near,  the  temple  presidencies, 
and  the  general  auxiliary  officers  of  the 
Church,  and  all  who  are  gathered  in 
this  historic  building  and  listening  in — 
a  vast  audience  of  hundreds  of  thou- 
sands listening! 

The  singing  for  this  morning's  ses- 
sion will  be  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses, 
conducted  by  Professor  John  R.  Halli- 
day,  with  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 
We  are  pleased  to  have  these  choice 
young  men  and  women  with  us  today, 
and  want  them  to  know  that  we  deeply 
appreciate  the  efforts  they  have  put 
forth  to  be  with  us  in  this  session  of  the 
conference,  and  this  afternoon. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
chorus  singing,  "Jesus  Christ  is  Risen 
Today,"  under  the  baton  of  Professor 
John  R.  Halliday.  The  invocation  will 
be  offered  by  Elder  J.  Henry  Volker, 
formerly  president  of  the  Netherlands 
Mission. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  "Jesus  Christ  Is 
Risen  Today." 

J.  Henry  Volker,  formerly  President 
of  the  Netherlands  Mission,  offered  the 
invocation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  favor  us  with, 
"He  Is  Risen,"  conducted  by  John 
Halliday. 

Before  we  listen  to  them  I  wish  to 
make  reference  once  more  to  the  fact 
that  in  the  year  1820  a  young  boy 
between  14  and  15  years  of  age  declared 
that  in  answer  to  sincere  prayer  he  re- 
ceived a  revelation   from  God.  His 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  1963 


101 


declaration  was  simple  but  positive — he 
declared  that  God  is  a  personal  Being 
who  communicates  His  will  to  man; 
and  second,  that  no  creed  of  Christen- 
dom had  the  true  plan  of  salvation.  It 
was  ten  years  later,  134  years  ago  today, 
that  the  Church  was  organized  by  a 
group  of  men  and  women  in  obedience 
to  a  commandment  of  God.  They  as- 
sembled in  the  house  of  Peter  Whitmer, 
Sr.  in  Fayette,  Seneca  County,  New 
York.  They  administered  the  Sacra- 
ment, and  quoting  from  the  minutes 
of  that  meeting:  "The  spirit  of  the  Lord 
was  manifest  in  a  very  great  degree. 
Some  prophesied,  all  praised  the  Lord, 
and  rejoiced  exceedingly." 

And  now,  as  has  been  customary  since 
the  organization  of  the  Church,  we  shall 
sustain  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  A  few  brief  statistical  and 
financial  reports  will  be  given,  just  prior 
to  the  sustaining  of  the  Authorities. 


Elder  Joseph  W.  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  follow  the  singing  by 
the  Choir,  and  he  will  give  a  few  statis- 
tics concerning  the  Church.  He  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Orval  W.  Adams, 
who  will  give  a  report  of  the  Church 
Finance  Committee.  Brother  Adams' 
presentation  of  the  finances  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  President  Hugh  B.  Brown's 
presentation  of  the  General  Authorities, 
general  officers,  and  general  auxiliary 
officers  of  the  Church  for  your  sustain- 
ing vote;  and  that  will  be  followed  by 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Presi- 
dent of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
The  choir  will  now  sing. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the 
number,  "He  Is  Risen." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference  read  the  following  report: 


STATISTICAL  REPORT  1963 


The  First  Presidency  has  issued  the  following  Statistical  Report  concerning  the  mem- 
bership of  the  Church  at  the  end  of  the  year  1963. 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion  at  close  of  1963   389 

An  increase  of  25  Stakes  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards    3,049 

Number  of  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes    566 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches  in  Stakes  at  close  of  year   3,615 

Number  of  Mission  Branches  at  close  of  year   1,987 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year 

(Not  including  Area  Supervisory  Missions)    73 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1963: 

In  the  Stakes   1,736,567 

In  the  Missions   380,884 

Total  Membership    2,117,451 

A  net  increase  of  151,665  Members  during  the  year 

Church  Growth  during  1963: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions   56,205 

Children  of  record  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    49,640 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions    105,210 

Social  Statistics: 

(Based  on  1963  data  from  the  Stakes) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand    34.56 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand    8.22 

Death  rate  per  thousand     5.09 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood,  December  31,  1963 

Deacons   98,637 

Teachers   71,596 

Priests     97,602 

Total  number  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood   267,835 


102  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Da\< 

Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  December  31,  1963 

Elders   180,332 

Seventies   21,196 

High  Priests   58,560 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood    260,088 

Grand  Total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek  Priesthood    527,923 

An  increase  of  24,370  during  the  year 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (Membership)   262,002 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union  (average  attendance)    758,335 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)    220,449 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association  (enrollment)   272,370 

Primary  (children  enrolled)    403,940 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  Persons  assisted  during  the  year   104,686 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment   11,616 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan   114,749 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated   7,055 

Genealogical  Society: 

Names  cleared  in  1963  for  Temple  Ordinances   1,104,017 

Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  15  countries  during  the  year  were  equiva- 
lent to  134,394  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per  volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1963  in  the  12  operating  Temples: 

For  the  living   56,439 

For  the  dead   3,294,133 

Total  number  of  ordinances   3,350,572 

Church  School  System: 

Total  1963  cumulative  enrollments  in  Church  Schools,  including 

Institutes,  and  Seminaries   125,922 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1963  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions   11,653 

Number  of  Local  Missionaries  (full-time  and  part-time)  who  at  the  close 

of  1963  were  laboring  in  these  missions   129 

Number  of  Stake  Missionaries  at  the  close  of  the  year    5,135 

Total  number  of  Missionaries  at  end  of  year    16,917 

Number  of  Missionaries  who  received  training   in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1963   5,659 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 
Since  the  1963  Annual  Conference 

President  Henry  D.  Moyle,  of  the  First  Presidency 

Richard  R.  Lyman,  formerly  a  member  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 

Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young,  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

H.  Loren  Allen,  President  of  Mesa  Stake 

George  B.  Glade,  President  of  Park  Stake 

James  L.  Mortensen,  President  of  Columbus  Stake 

Golden  Romney,  President  of  Lewiston  Stake 

Gladys  Pratt  Young,  wife  of  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


103 


Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  read  the  fol- 
lowing report  by  the  Church  Finance 
Committee. 

March  30,  1964 

The  First  Presidency 

47  East  South  Temple  Street 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  report  of  the 
1963  financial  operations  of  the  Corpora- 
tion of  the  President  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  as  well 
as  of  auxiliaries  and  other  organizations 
for  which  accounts  are  maintained  in 
the  Financial  Department  of  the 
Church.  Attention  was  given  particu- 
larly to  the  accounting  and  auditing 
procedures  followed  as  to  funds  re- 
ceived and  to  the  manner  in  which 
expenditures  are  controlled.  We  have 
determined  that  the  expenditures  of  such 
funds  are  authorized  by  the  First  Presi- 
dency and  by  budgetary  procedures. 
The  budget  is  authorized  by  the  Coun- 
cil on  Disposition  of  the  Tithes  com- 
prised of  the  First  Presidency,  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  and  the  Presiding 
Bishopric. 

A  continuous  audit  of  the  financial 
records  of  the  Church  is  conducted  by 
the  Church  Auditing  Department, 
which  is  completely  independent  of  all 
other  departments.  Professional  audit- 
ing firms  are  employed  to  audit  certain 
businesses  owned  or  controlled  by  the 
Church. 

Based  upon  our  review  of  the  financial 
reports  of  the  Corporation  of  the  Presi- 
dent of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  and  explanations  made 


by  the  personnel  of  the  Financial  and 
Auditing  Departments  of  the  Church, 
we  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  expendi- 
tures of  funds  during  the  year  1963 
were  made  in  accordance  with  the  es- 
tablished procedures   outlined  herein. 

We  congratulate  the  General  Authori- 
ties and  their  associates  for  the  manner 
in  which  the  finances  of  the  Church  are 
administered,  and  we  commend  the 
Church  Financial  Department  and  the 
Church  Auditing  Department  for  the 
expert  and  careful  manner  in  which 
all  financial  records  are  maintained  and 
audited. 

Respectfully  submitted, 

CHURCH  FINANCE 
COMMITTEE 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

(Sustaining  of  General  Authorities  of 
the  Church) 

It  now  becomes  our  privilege  to  exer- 
cise a  right  which  is  not  a  pro  forma 
matter  but  an  important  function  in 
Church  government. 

It  is  proposed  that  we  sustain  the 
following  as  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown,  First 
Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency,  pre- 
sented for  the  sustaining  vote  of  the 
members  the  General  Authorities,  Gen- 
eral Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary 
Officers  of  the  Church  as  follows: 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 

The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Hugh  B.  Brown,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

Nathan  Eldon  Tanner,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


104  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Marion  G.  Romney 

Harold  B.  Lee  LeGrand  Richards 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Howard  W.  Hunter 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Gordon  B.  Hinckley 

Delbert  L.  Stapley  Thomas  S.  Monson 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  the  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Alma  Sonne  Alvin  R.  Dyer 

EIRay  L.  Christiansen  Franklin  D.  Richards 

John  Longden  Theodore  M.  Burton 

Sterling  W.  Sill  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 

Henry  D.  Taylor  Boyd  K.  Packer 

William  J.  Critchlow,  Jr.  Bernard  P.  Brockbank 

Trustee-in-Trust 
David  O.  McKay 

as  Trustee-in-Trust  for  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Marion  D.  Hanks 

Seymour  Dilworth  Young  Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 

Milton  R.  Hunter  Paul  Harold  Dunn 

Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Presiding  Bishopric 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Presiding  Bishop 
Robert  L.  Simpson,  First  Counselor 
Victor  L.  Brown,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  as  Assistant. 

GENERAL  CHURCH  PRIESTHIOD  COMMITTEES 

Priesthood  Welfare  Committee 

John  H.  Vandenberg.  Chairman 
Henry  D.  Taylor,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Home  Teaching  Committee 

Marion  G.  Romney,  Chairman 

John  H.  Vandenberg,  Vice  Chairman 


GENERAL  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 

Priesthood  Missionary  Committee 

Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Chairman  of  Executive  Committee 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  Managing  Director 
Boyd  K.  Packer,  Associate  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 


Priesthood  Genealogical  Committee 


Howard  W.  Hunter,  Chairman 
Theodore  M.  Burton,  Managing  Director 
with  all  members  of  the  committee  as  at  present  constituted. 


Acting  Chancellor  of  the  Church  School  System 


Harvey  L.  Taylor 

Church  Finance  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Wilford  G.  Edling 
Glenn  E.  Nielson 
Weston  E.  Hamilton 

Senior  Church  Auditors 

Harold  L.  Davis 
Charles  Schmidt 


GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 


Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Louise  Wallace  Madsen,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


Church  Board  of  Education 


David  O.  McKay 
Hugh  B.  Brown 
Nathan  Eldon  Tanner 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 
Harold  B.  Lee 
Spencer  W.  Kimball 
Ezra  Taft  Benson 
Mark  E.  Petersen 
Delbert  L.  Stapley 
Marion  G.  Romney 


LeGrand  Richards 
Richard  L.  Evans 
Howard  W.  Hunter 
Gordon  B.  Hinckley 
Thomas  S.  Monson 
Boyd  K.  Packer 
Marion  D.  Hanks 
Albert  Theodore  Tuttle 
John  H.  Vandenberg 


Relief  Society 


Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 


George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 

David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 


106  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 

Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

G.  Carlos  Smith,  Jr.,  General  Superintendent 
Marvin  J.  Ashton,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Carl  W.  Buehner,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Florence  Smith  Jacobsen,  President 
Margaret  Romney  Jackson,  First  Counselor 
Dorothy  Porter  Holt,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  Watts  Parmley,  President 
Leone  Watson  Doxey,  First  Counselor 
Lucile  Cardon  Reading,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Isaac  M.  Stewart,  President 
Theodore  L.  Cannon,  Vice  President 
Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor 
Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor 
W.  Jack  Thomas,  Tour  Manager 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

President  McKay,  as  far  as  I  can  ob- 
serve the  voting  is  unanimously  in  the 
affirmative. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  a  report 
from  the  Clerk  of  the  Conference,  Jo- 
seph W.  Anderson,  giving  statistical 
data;  from  Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  who 
gave  a  report  of  the  Church  Financial 
Committee;  and  from  President  Hugh 
B.  Brown  of  the  First  Presidency  who 
presented  for  your  sustaining  vote  the 


General  Authorities,  general  officers, 
and  general  auxiliary  officers  of  the 
Church.  We  thank  you,  brethren  and 
sisters,  for  this  sustaining  vote.  May 
God  bless  you  and  all  of  us  that  we 
may  in  unity  and  brotherly  love  con- 
tinue in  body  and  spirit  in  the  great 
work  of  the  Church  commenced  by 
Joseph  Smith  and  his  associates  134 
years  ago  today. 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 
first  speaker  this  morning,  and  he  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Bernard  P.  Brock- 
bank,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 


107 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters:  I  have 
chosen  a  vital  subject,  that  of  chastity, 
if  you  will  give  me  your  attention. 

According  to  the  dictionary,  chastity 
means,  "The  state  or  quality  of  being 
chaste,  free  from  sexual  impurity;  free  in 
thought,  modest  and  free  from  vulgarity." 

When  our  Redeemer  was  with  the 
Nephites  on  this  continent  after  his 
resurrection,  he  emphasized  this  prin- 
ciple by  saying  to  them:  "And  no  un- 
clean thing  can  enter  into  his  kingdom; 
therefore  nothing  entereth  into  his  rest 
save  it  be  those  who  have  washed 
their  garments  in  my  blood,  because 
of  their  faith,  and  the  repentance  of 
all  their  sins,  and  their  faithfulness 
unto  the  end. 

"Now  this  is  the  commandment:  Re- 
pent, all  ye  ends  of  the  earth,  and  come 
unto  me  and  be  baptized  in  my  name, 
that  ye  may  be  sanctified  by  the  recep- 
tion of  the  Holy  Ghost,  that  ye  may 
stand  spotless  before  me  at  the  last  day. 

"Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  you,  this 
is  my  gospel;  and  ye  know  the  things 
that  ye  must  do  in  my  church;  for  the 
works  which  ye  have  seen  me  do  that 
shall  ye  also  do;  for  that  which  ye  have 
seen  me  do  even  that  shall  ye  do; 

"Therefore,  if  ye  do  these  things 
blessed  are  ye,  for  ye  shall  be  lifted 
up  at  the  last  day."  (3  Nephi  27:19-22.) 

Repentance  Essential 

From  what  we  see  as  we  travel  from 
city  to  city  and  from  what  we  read  in 
the  public  press,  we  are  forced  to  the 
conclusion  that  repentance  from  sin  is 
extremely  essential  throughout  the  en- 
tire world.  In  fact,  there  is  seldom  a 
time  in  the  known  history  of  mankind 
when  sexual  sin  was  not  prevalent  and 
the  violation  of  the  divine  command- 
ments was  almost  universal.  It  was 
not  long  after  Adam  and  Eve  had  chil- 
dren who  began  to  pair  off  and  estab- 
lish families  that  the  influence  of  Satan 
was  felt,  and  the  sons  and  daughters 
forgot  the  teachings  of  their  parents. 
We  read  that  Satan  came  among  them 
saying:  "I  am  also  a  son  of  God";  and 
he  commanded  them  to  believe  not  the 
teachings  of  their  parents,  and  the  rec- 


ord informs  us  that  from  that  time 
forth  men  became,  ".  .  .  carnal,  sensual, 
and  devilish."  (Moses  5:13.) 

Very  frequently  I  have  this  question 
asked  of  me:  "When  Lucifer,  or  the 
devil,  was  cast  out  of  heaven,  why  did 
the  Lord  permit  him  to  come  to  this 
earth  to  tempt  and  torment  us,  rather 
than  to  have  been  sent  with  his  fol- 
lowers to  an  isolated  place?"  My  an- 
swer to  this  question  has  been  that  it 
seems  clear  that  the  Father  permitted 
Lucifer  to  come  here  to  tempt  us  and 
test  our  faith.  The  fact  is  clear  that 
Adam  and  his  posterity  were  not  left 
without  divine  commandments  and 
guidance.  Angels  visited  them  and  in- 
structed them  and  commanded  them  to 
raise  their  children  in  light  and  truth. 
Moreover,  the  fall  was  not  the  terrible 
mistake  which  so  many  have  been  led 
to  believe.  It  is  customary  in  the  re- 
ligious world  to  speak  of  the  fall  as 
"man's  shameful  fall,"  leaving  the  im- 
pression that  had  Adam  refused  to  par- 
take of  the  fruit,  he  and  Eve  and  their 
posterity  would  have  lived  in  eternal 
bliss  and  harmony.  The  fact  is  clear, 
however,  had  Adam  not  partaken  he  and 
Eve  would  have  lived  alone  without 
posterity.  Therefore  the  fall  was  a 
necessity,  and  this  was  clearly  stated  by 
Mother  Eve  when  she  said:  "Were  it 
not  for  our  transgression  we  never 
should  have  had  seed,  and  never  should 
have  known  good  and  evil,  and  the  joy 
of  our  redemption,  and  the  eternal  life 
which  God  giveth  unto  all  the  obe- 
dient." (Ibid.,  5:11.) 

Mortality  Part  of  Eternity 

This  mortal  life  is  just  an  essential 
part  of  our  eternal  existence.  We  came 
here  to  be  tested  and  proved  by  coming 
in  contact  with  evil  as  well  as  the  good. 
It  is  necessary  that  we  be  tempted  and 
tried,  but  the  Eternal  Father  did  not 
leave  us  helpless  in  the  midst  of  evil. 
From  the  very  beginning  the  plan  of 
salvation  was  presented  to  our  first 
parents.  They  taught  these  principles 
to  their  children.  It  is  necessary,  how- 
ever, that  we  have  trials  and  temptations, 
as  well  as  the  divine  commandments. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


108 

Monday,  April  6 

Therefore  the  Father  has  permitted 
Satan  and  his  hosts  to  tempt  us,  but 
by  the  guidance  of  the  Spirit  of  the 
Lord  and  the  commandments  given 
through  revelation,  we  are  prepared  to 
make  our  choice.  If  we  do  evil,  we 
have  been  promised  that  we  will  be 
punished;  if  we  do  good,  we  will  re- 
ceive the  eternal  reward  of  righteous- 
ness. Every  soul  has  been  given  the 
gift  of  free  agency.  It  is  essential  that 
we  learn  both  good  and  evil  and  thus 
resist  and  overcome  the  evil.  If  we  live 
righteously  there  will  come  eternal  sal- 
vation and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

Cleanliness  and  Eternal  Existence 

Cleanliness  of  life  will  bring  the  re- 
ward of  exaltation  and  an  eternal  exist- 
ence in  the  kingdom  of  God.  If  we 
choose  the  evil,  the  reward  will  be  in 
punishment.  Eventually  every  sin  will 
have  to  be  righted.  Our  Savior  paid 
the  price  of  our  transgressions  if  we  do 
not  sin  a  sin  worthy  of  eternal  death 
and  humbly  keep  his  commandments; 
otherwise  he  has  said,  we  must  suffer 
even  as  did  he. 

When  the  children  of  Israel  came  out 
of  Egypt,  the  Lord  gave  them  many 
commandments.  Among  these  command- 
ments he  taught  the  Israelites  that  their 
bodies  were  sacred  and  that  they  should 
not  be  improperly  exposed.  Among 
these  instructions  we  find  this  neces- 
sary commandment: 

Not  a  Lovely  Sight 

"The  woman  shall  not  wear  that 
which  pertaineth  unto  a  man,  neither 
shall  a  man  put  on  a  woman's  garment: 
for  all  that  do  so  are  abomination  unto 
the  Lord  thy  God."  (Deut.  22:5.) 

Today  it  is  a  common  sight,  even  on 
the  streets  of  the  cities  of  the  Latter-day 
Saints,  to  see  women  dressed  in  pants 
and  suits  similar  to  those  worn  by  men. 
We  are  forced  to  declare  that  this  is  not 
a  lovely  sight.  Moreover,  it  is  also  fre- 
quently the  case  at  parties  and  places 
of  entertainment  that  women  are  ar- 
rayed in  what  I  think  they  call  full 
or  party  dress,  thus  exposing  a  part  of 
the  body  which  should  be  sacred  and 
not  exposed. 

The  Prophet  Isaiah  without  question 
saw  our  day,  for  he  speaks  of  the  daugh- 


Third  Day 

ters  of  Zion  who,  in  the  latter  days, 
would  be  guilty  of  all  kinds  of  im- 
proprieties in  their  dress.  I  will  not 
quote  what  he  said,  but  if  any  are 
curious  enough  and  wish  to  read  it  you 
will  find  it  in  the  third  chapter  of 
Isaiah,  verses  sixteen  to  the  end. 

Now,  my  good  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  am  making  a  plea  for  modesty  and 
chastity  and  for  the  members  of  the 
Church,  male  and  female  alike,  to  be 
chaste,  clean  in  their  lives,  and  obedient 
to  the  covenants  and  commandments 
the  Lord  has  given  us. 

I  would  like  to  quote  a  few  paragraphs 
taken  from  a  discourse  by  President  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr.: 

"Our  very  civilization  itself  is  based 
upon  chastity,  the  sanctity  of  marriage, 
and  the  holiness  of  the  home.  Destroy 
these  and  Christian  man  becomes 
a  brute. 

Chastity  Fundamental 

"Chastity  is  fundamental  to  our  life 
and  to  our  civilization.  If  the  race  be- 
comes unchaste,  it  will  perish.  Immor- 
ality has  been  basic  to  the  destruction 
of  mighty  nations  of  the  past;  it  will 
bring  to  dust  the  mighty  nations  of  the 
present.  Every  one  of  us  who  instructs 
our  youth  in  whatever  place  or  position, 
and  in  whatever  capacity,  must  teach 
the  young  people  of  today  to  abstain 
from  unchastity."  (CR,  Oct.  1938, 
p.  137.) 

The  following  counsel  is  given  by 
President  David  O.  McKay: 

"In  this  day  when  modesty  is  thrust 
into  the  background,  and  chastity  is  con- 
sidered an  outmoded  virtue,  I  appeal  to 
you  to  keep  your  souls  unmarred  and 
unsullied  from  this  sin,  the  consequence 
of  which  will  smite  and  haunt  you 
intimately  until  your  conscience  is 
seared  and  your  character  sordid. 

"Remember,  too,  the  significance  of 
the  Savior's  saying  that  if  any  shall 
commit  adultery  even  in  his  or  her 
heart,  he  shall  not  have  the  Spirit, 
but  shall  deny  the  faith  and  shall  fear. 

"Resist  evil,  and  the  tempter  will 
flee  from  you.  If  you  keep  your  char- 
acter above  reproach,  no  matter  what 
others  may  think,  or  what  charges  they 
make,  you  can  hold  your  head  erect, 
keep  your  heart  light,  and  face  the 
world  undauntedly  because  you,  your- 


ELDER  BERNARD  P 

self,  and  your  God  know  that  you  have 
kept  your  soul  untarnished."  (Ibid., 
Oct.  1951,  pp.  8-9.) 

"Precious  Above  All  Things" 

Again  from  President  McKay: 
"  'My  spirit,'  says  the  Christ  'will  not 
dwell  in  unclean  tabernacles.'  The  cor- 
ruption that  is  in  the  world  through 
lust,  as  mentioned  in  one  of  Peter's 
Epistles,  has  its  source  in  thoughts  and 
schemes  harbored  in  the  individual 
mind.  A  man  who  takes  advantage  of 
his  neighbor  in  a  business  deal  when 
the  opportunity  offers  has  prepared  him- 
self for  the  occasion  by  dishonest  think- 
ing. Young  couples  do  not  lose  their 
chastity,  named  by  the  Book  of  Mormon 
as  'precious  above  all  things'  without 
their  having  previously  in  thought  justi- 
fied the  act. 

"The  husband  who  coolly  turns  from 

ELDER  BERNARD 

Assistant  to  the  Council 

Brethren  and  sisters:  I  am  thankful  for 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost,  and  I  pray 
for  the  inspiration  of  this  great  com- 
forter. Isn't  it  humbling  and  glorious  to 
be  an  active  member  of  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints?  I  find 
it  a  great  joy  and  blessing  to  visit  the 
Saints  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  It 
is  a  privilege  to  shake  their  hands  and 
to  call  them  brother  and  sister.  I  like 
the  warmth  and  the  joy  that  come  from 
this  great  family  tie.  Happiness  truly 
comes  from  God  and  his  righteousness. 

"Seek  ye  first  .  .  ." 

The  first  great  goal  of  this  life  was 
given  by  Jesus  Christ  our  Savior,  leader, 
and  example,  when  he  said,  ".  .  .  seek 
ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God,  and  his 
righteousness;  .  .  ."  (Matt.  6:33.)  There 
is  no  other  goal  ahead  of  this  first  goal. 

I  would  like  to  speak  briefly  about 
the  scriptures  and  missionary  work.  No 
one  ever  needs  to  make  excuses  or 
apologize  for  the  scriptures.  The  Apos- 
tle Paul  said,  "All  scripture  is  given  by 
inspiration  of  God,  and  is  profitable  for 
doctrine,  for  reproof,  for  correction,  for 
instruction  in  righteousness: 

"That  the  man  of  God  may  be  per- 


.  BROCKBANK  109 

a  loyal  wife  and  family  and  seeks  illicit 
relationship  elsewhere,  perhaps  with  a 
disloyal  wife  of  a  neighbor,  has  previ- 
ously poisoned  his  soul  with  immoral 
ideas.  Disgruntled  members  of  society, 
faultfinders  in  wards  and  stakes,  do  not 
become  such  merely  because  of  some 
offense,  real  or  imagined.  What  they 
say  and  do  has  been  preceded  by 
selfish  desires  or  unattained  ambition." 
(Ibid.,  April  1951,  pp.  96-97.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  our 
Savior.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  has  just 
spoken  to  us. 

Elder  Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assist- 
ant to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next 
speaker. 

P.  BROCKBANK 

of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

feet,  thoroughly  furnished  unto  all  good 
works."  (2  Tim.  3:16-17.) 

I  repeat,  "All  scripture  is  given  by 
inspiration  of  God."  Anyone  changing 
or  placing  a  personal  interpretation  that 
changes  the  true  meaning  of  the  scrip- 
tures is  placing  himself  and  his  abilities 
above  the  God-inspired  scriptures. 

"The  field  is  white  .  .  ." 

When  the  gospel  and  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  were  restored  to  this  earth 
in  1830  by  a  Prophet  of  God,  the  scrip- 
tures were  again  restored  to  their  true 
light  and  meaning.  Immediately  after 
the  restoration,  the  great  missionary 
program  of  the  Church  was  com- 
menced. The  Savior  said  in  a  revela- 
tion to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  ".  .  . 
behold  the  field  is  white  already  to 
harvest;  .  .  ."  (D&C  4:4.)  Christ  said 
when  he  lived  upon  the  earth  that 
there  were  many  people  to  be  brought 
into  the  Church  "but  the  labourers  are 
few."  (Matt.  9:37.) 

Today,  1964,  the  field  is  still  white 
and  ready  to  harvest.  There  are  mil- 
lions waiting  today  for  the  restored 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  but  the  laborers 
are  few.    We  must  find  ways  to  reach 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

and  teach  every  creature.  I  sometimes 
wonder  if  we  have  actually  taught  one 
percent  of  God's  children.  That  would 
be  over  thirty  million.  I  know  that 
millions  have  heard  about  the  Church, 
but  there  is  no  substitute  for  the  teacher. 

"By  their  fruits" 

Under  the  inspiration  and  direction 
of  our  Prophet  David  O.  McKay,  we 
have  undertaken  a  great  and  far-reach- 
ing missionary  program  in  the  New 
York  World's  Fair.  Millions  of  people 
will  have  the  opportunity  to  hear  testi- 
monies and  see  fruits  of  the  gospel  in 
the  restored  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  by  their  fruits  ye  shall 
know  them."  (Ibid.,  7:20.)  The  fruits 
through  the  exhibits  based  upon  the 
scriptures  will  be  shown  and  taught. 

The  World's  Fair 

Our  pavilion  and  exhibits  are  built 
and  designed  to  give  a  sacred  atmos- 
phere and  a  spirit  of  rest  and  peace. 
Our  theme  is  "Man's  Search  for  Happi- 
ness." We  want  to  show  and  impress 
upon  all  who  attend,  that  happiness 
comes  from  seeking  first  the  kingdom 
of  God  and  his  righteousness. 

As  people  enter  the  pavilion,  they 
will  see  an  Adam  and  Eve  statue  and 
the  masterful  painting  of  the  ancient 
prophets.  The  scriptural  messages 
which  will  be  written  in  text  will  show 
our  acceptance  of  the  Old  Testament 
scriptures. 

The  Messages  of  the  New  Testament 

The  heroic-sized  marble  statue  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  the  inspired  painting 
of  the  Twelve  Apostles  will  show  that 
we  accept  Jesus  Christ,  the  Twelve 
Apostles,  and  the  scriptures  of  the  New 
Testament.  The  one-hundred-ten  foot 
mural,  picturing  the  teachings  of  Jesus 
Christ,  will  touch  the  hearts  of  the 
true  Christians.  Jesus  Christ  is  shown 
coming  up  out  of  the  waters  of  the 
River  Jordan  after  being  baptized  by 
John  the  Baptist.  The  Holy  Ghost  is 
represented  in  the  form  of  a  dove,  and 
the  voice  of  God  the  Eternal  Father 
saying,  ".  .  .  This  is  my  beloved  Son, 
in  whom  I  am  well  pleased,"  (ibid., 
3:17) — a  picture  that  even  touches  the 
heart  of  the  unbeliever.    This  is  one  of 


Third  Day 

the  great  examples  and  messages  of 
the  New  Testament,  and  the  artist 
under  inspiration  has  created  and  pic- 
tured this  glorious  occasion  when  God 
expressed  from  heaven  that  he  was 
pleased  with  his  Son. 

Christ- centered 

The  mural  continues  with  Jesus  call- 
ing the  fishermen,  Peter  and  Andrew. 
Another  picture  shows  the  calling  and 
ordaining  of  the  Twelve  Apostles;  Jesus 
is  also  pictured  teaching  the  multitudes 
in  Jerusalem;  Jesus  praying  at  Geth- 
semane  while  the  apostles  slept;  Judas 
and  the  betrayal  kiss;  the  crucifixion; 
the  meeting  of  the  Resurrected  Christ 
and  the  apostles  after  his  resurrection; 
the  ascension  of  Jesus  Christ  and  the 
two  men  in  white  apparel  saying,  ".  .  . 
this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from 
you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like 
manner  .  .  ."  (Acts  1:11) — a  most  im- 
pressive mural.  The  golden-rayed  room, 
built  around  Jesus  Christ,  is  inspiring, 
soul-searching,  and  magnificent.  Many 
will  receive  their  first  inspiration  of  this 
Church  as  they  enter  this  pavilion. 

We  will  briefly  show  the  apostasy 
from  the  teaching  of  Jesus  Christ,  that 
man  in  many  cases  substituted  his  own 
doctrines  and  programs;  men  did  away 
with  the  Twelve  Apostles,  changed  the 
baptism,  and  substituted  an  incorporeal 
and  incomprehensible  God  for  our  Liv- 
ing, Personal  Heavenly  Father. 

"Another  Angel" 

The  mural  continues  to  show  John 
the  Revelator  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos. 
John  in  vision  saw  an  angel  and  said, 
"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlasting 
gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that  dwell 
on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation,  and 
kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people," — 
(Rev.  14:6)  often  quoted  and  unique  to 
this  Church.  Our  message  to  the  world 
is  that  this  angel  came  to  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  and  restored  the  everlast- 
ing gospel,  and  that  it  is  going  forward 
today  to  every  nation,  kindred,  tongue, 
and  people. 

The  Restoration 

As  we  walk  into  the  first  vision 
diorama,    we    see    the  boy-Prophet, 


ELDER  BERNAR 

Joseph  Smith,  kneeling  in  humble 
prayer  in  the  Sacred  Grove,  and  we  feel 
as  if  we  are  in  that  grove  of  trees  wit- 
nessing his  first  vision. 

Heavenly  Beings 

Millions  accept  Moses,  Abraham, 
Jacob,  Isaiah,  and  all  of  the  ancient 
prophets  of  God  as  prophets  of  God, 
and  heavenly  messengers  appeared  unto 
them  many  times.  Millions  accept  the 
Apostle  Peter,  John  the  Revelator,  Paul, 
and  the  other  Apostles  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  they  all  had  heavenly 
visitations  and  manifestations.  If  we 
stay  with  the  God-given  scriptures, 
heavenly  manifestations  are  part  of 
God's  earth  program,  and  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith's  first  vision  is  in  harmony 
with  the  scriptures. 

A  twin  diorama  showing  Jesus  Christ 
teaching  in  and  around  Jerusalem  on 
the  Eastern  Hemisphere  and  in  the 
Americas  on  the  Western  Hemisphere 
is  impressive  and  brings  to  light  his 
statement  that  he  had  other  sheep  which 
he  must  visit. 

Scriptures 

The  Bible  contains  the  God-inspired 
scriptures  of  the  Eastern  Hemisphere. 
The  Book  of  Mormon  contains  the 
God-inspired  scriptures  of  the  Western 
Hemisphere.  Today  men  are  looking 
for  evidence  of  divine  power;  it  can  be 
found  in  the  Holy  Bible  and  in  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  and  among  the 
prophets  and  Apostles  of  the  Lord. 

A  statue  showing  the  restoration  of 
the  priesthood  by  Peter,  James,  and 
John,  messengers  sent  from  heaven, 
upon  the  head  of  the  Prophet,  will 
portray  the  restoration  of  this  great 
power.  One  hundred  back-lighted 
transparencies  have  been  created  and 
taken  from  all  parts  of  the  world  to 
show  the  fruits  of  the  Church. 

Life  Eternal 

A  diorama  showing  eternal  life  has 
been  created  around  the  words  of  Jesus 
that  have  been  quoted  here  several 


>  P.  BROCKBANK  111 

times  at  this  conference,  "And  this  is 
life  eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee 
the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ, 
whom  thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.)  An 
inspired  moving  picture  on  eternal  life 
has  also  been  created  to  inspire  and 
touch  the  hearts  of  the  truth-seeker. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  a  great  mis- 
sionary, will  be  at  the  fair  also.  Three 
hundred  Singing  Mothers  will  be  there. 

I  heard  several  fine  sermons  on 
Easter  from  prominent  ecclesiastical 
scholars  encouraging  the,  people  to  re- 
turn to  religion.  We  already  have  an 
abundance  of  varied  religions  on  this 
earth,  but  all  of  God's  children  should 
turn  to  the  God-inspired  scriptures  and 
to  the  gospel  teachings  of  Jesus  Christ. 
They  should  seek  first  the  kingdom 
of  God. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  we  sincerely  and 
humbly  ask  for  your  prayers  for  the 
success  of  the  Lord's  work  at  the 
World's  Fair  and  for  the  great  mis- 
sionary program  of  the  Church,  that 
we  may  more  fully  teach  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue,  and  people,  and  I  ask  this  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
Bernard  P.  Brockbank,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve. 

The  congregation  and  chorus  will 
now  join  in  singing,  "Praise  to  the  Man 
Who  Communed  with  Jehovah." 

Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  will  be  our 
speaker  following  the  singing. 

The  Choruses  and  the  congregation 
joined  in  singing  the  hymn,  "Praise  To 
The  Man  Who  Communed  With 
Jehovah." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker. 

He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  John 
Longden. 


112 

Monday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Third  Day 


President  McKay,  President  Brown, 
President  Tanner,  President  Smith,  my 
beloved  brethren  of  the  General  Au- 
thorities, my  dear  brothers  and  sisters: 
I  would  like  to  testify  to  you  that  these 
brethren  are  servants  and  prophets  of 
God  our  Eternal  Father.  I  know  today 
we  miss  Elder  LeGrand  Richards,  Apos- 
tle LeGrand  Richards.  I  say  "apostle" 
intentionally  because  truly  he  is  an 
Apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We 
have  missed  his  sitting  here  by  the  side 
of  Brother  Romney  for  these  three  days. 
I  visited  with  him  this  morning.  He  is 
home  and  looks  very  fine.  He  sends 
his  love  to  the  people,  the  Saints,  and 
thanks  you  for  your  prayers.  He  does 
love  the  Saints,  and  I  can  say  to  him, 
"We  love  you,  too,  LeGrand.  You  are 
a  great  soul." 

The  first  and  great  commandment  is: 
"Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God 
with  all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy 
soul,  and  with  all  thy  mind. 

"And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself." 
(Matt.  22:37,  39.) 

My  Neighbor 

Now,  just  who  is  your  neighbor?  We 
are  living  in  a  somewhat  complex  so- 
ciety, when  things  sometimes  are  not 
quite  as  they  seem.  And  now  as  we 
are  facing  a  state  and  national  election, 
perhaps  we  should  conduct  ourselves 
and  our  public  statements  and  accusa- 
tions a  little  differently  than  we  have 
done  in  the  past. 

The  Lord  has  said: 

"Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

"For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge, 
ye  shall  be  judged:  and  with  what 
measure  ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured 
to  you  again. 

"And  why  beholdest  thou  the  mote 
that  is  in  thy  brother's  eye,  but  con- 
siderest  not  the  beam  that  is  in  thine 
own  eye?"  (Ibid.,  7:1-3.) 

The  Opposition's  Candidate 

We  have  two  great  American  political 
parties  in  this  country — the  Republican 
Party  and  the  Democratic  Party — and  I 


believe  that  most  citizens  believe  in  the 
two-party  system  and  desire  to  preserve 
it.  Sometimes  we  speak  about  the  op- 
position candidate  as  if  we  would  like 
to  destroy  one  or  the  other  political 
party.  Recently,  I  heard  two  men  speak- 
ing about  a  certain  candidate  of  the 
opposite  party  to  which  they  belonged. 
One  of  the  men  said,  "If  he  runs,  before 
he  is  through,  we  will  ruin  him."  Some 
of  us  can  recall  where  men  have  been 
practically  ruined  because  of  treacherous 
political  campaigns.  I  wonder  if  any 
political  office  is  worth  that  price. 
Certainly,  we  can  talk  principles  and 
policies  without  degrading  the  integrity 
and  even  the  good  name  and  the  family 
reputation  of  any  candidate  of  either 
party. 

As  citizens  of  this  great  country  and 
members  of  both  major  political  parties, 
we  can  be  thankful  for  belonging  to  a 
nation  under  God  and  for  a  faith  which, 
if  practised,  can  see  us  through  any 
hour  of  trouble.  The  atmosphere  of 
hate  and  intolerance  will  likely  be 
partly  responsible  for  sad  events 
occurring  in  this  choice  country — a 
choice  land! 

Respect  His  Good  Name 

We  should  all  be  thankful  and  grate- 
ful that  this  government  is  an  inspired 
form  of  government  and  our  personal 
rights  and  liberties  will  continue  un- 
abated. Ours  is  a  free  country,  and 
freedom  requires  people  to  think  for 
themselves  and  develop  their  own  abili- 
ties. Tolerance  and  respect  for  the 
opinion  of  others  should  be  cherished 
and  practised.  Each  of  us  could  learn 
to  distinguish  between  men  and  their 
ideas,  to  disagree  without  being  dis- 
agreeable, and  to  take  no  pleasure  in 
ruining  any  man  or  his  good  name  or 
his  future  because  most  of  us,  if  not  all 
of  us,  have  guilt  enough — each  in  his 
own  way. 

Perhaps  there  is  a  great  lack  of  toler- 
ance. We  should  not  debase  and  de- 
prive those  with  whom  we  may  differ 
by  character  or  custom  but  realize  that 
there  is  a  time  and  place  for  everything. 


ELDER  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 


113 


The  courage  to  defend  the  right  does 
not  give  one  the  right  to  destroy  those 
who  disagree.  The  world  is  in  constant 
conspiracy  against  brave  men.  Moral 
courage  has  been  to  a  greater  or  less 
extent  missing  or  lacking  in  the  Ameri- 
can life. 

Competition  in  America  is  keen  but 
that  does  not  justify  the  attempt  to 
ruin  a  man's  good  name  in  order  to 
achieve,  nor  does  it  justify  short  cuts 
in  our  taking  advantage  of  the 
other  fellow. 

Should  Americans  set  themselves  one 
against  another  in  bitterness  and  suspi- 
cion? Are  we  developing  tolerance, 
moral  courage,  patience,  etc.,  or  have 
these  virtues  become  de-emphasized  in 
American  life?  To  what  degree  would 
we  go  to  defeat  another? 

Protect  His  Honor 

Some  years  ago  an  article  written  by 
President  David  O.  McKay  was  pub- 
lished, entitled  "Protecting  One  An- 
other's Honor."  It  might  be  well  for 
each  one  of  us  to  adapt  this  article  to 
ourselves.  Today  that  should  be  empha- 
sized and  practised.  Yes,  it  should  even 
become  part  of  our  own  life.  May  I 
quote  some  statements  from  that  article. 
President  McKay  states,  and  I  quote: 

"To  defend  one's  country  is  a  worthy 
deed!  Patriotism  is  a  virtue.  In  pro- 
tecting the  good  name  and  holding  in- 
violate the  word  of  their  country,  men 
in  the  service  of  their  country  may  rise 
to  the  heights  of  true  nobility.  .  .  . 

"The  same  virtue  is  possessed  by  him 
who  with  unwavering  integrity  protects 
the  honor  and  good  name  of  his  friends 
and  associates  fyes,  even  his  competi- 
tors]. It  is  the  best  within  him  ex- 
pressing itself. 

"In  upholding  the  good  in  others  he 
makes  better  his  own  soul.  He  that 
looks  for  the  good  shall  find  it;  and  he 
who  protects  another's  good  name  makes 
bright  his  own. 

"But  the  opposite  is  true  as  well.  If 
every  man  is  the  keeper  of  his  brother's 
good  name,  he  who  proves  false  to  his 
trust  weakens  his  own  good  character, 
stains  his  own  soul.  There  is  a  mean 
element  in  human  nature  which  'feeds 
fat'  upon  seeing  weaknesses  and  faults 
in  others — which  secretly  gloats  upon 


others'  failures.  The  more  one  yields 
to  this  meanness,  the  meaner  one 
becomes.  .  .  . 

"It  is  from  this  base  side  of  humanity 
that  spring  slander  and  backbiting,  .  .  . 
gross  evils  in  society  that  produce  dis- 
cord, distrust,  and  devilishness — that 
cause  .  .  .  sorrow  and  broken  hearts.  .  .  . 
Families  are  broken  up  because  of  dis- 
trust aroused  by  faults  magnified  and 
virtues  overlooked.  Ties  of  friendship 
are  broken,  societies  and  organizations 
weakened  by  dissension  and  ill  will,  and 
even  governments  undermined  because 
men  fail  to  defend  the  honor  and  good 
name  of  their  colleagues  and  governing 
officials.  Much  of  this  is  the  result  of 
the  failure  to  look  for  the  good  and  not 
for  the  bad  in  others. 

Gossip's  Tongue 

"Looking  for  the  good  does  not  mean 
being  blind  to  the  bad.  Human  nature 
is  full  of  weaknesses  and  frailties;  .  .  . 
But  in  organized  society  .  .  .  there  are 
means  established  whereby  weaknesses 
may  be  corrected  and  evils  overcome. 
They  are  only  made  worse  when  magni- 
fied and  multiplied  by  gossip's  idle 
tongue.  It  is  a  deplorable  fact  that  the 
eye  of  the  gossip  and  the  slanderer  sees 
not  only  no  good  in  others,  but  sees 
'evil  where  no  evil  exists.'  Ofttimes, 
many  evil,  vicious  things  that  are  cir- 
culated exist  only  in  the  imagination 
of  .  .  .  evil-thinking  minds.  How  sordid 
must  be  that  person's  soul  who  would 
defame  the  honor  and  good  name  of  an 
innocent  friend  or  neighbor! 

"True  religion  as  exemplified  in  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  teaches  that  every 
man  should  be  the  defender  of  his 
brother's  good  name.  It  goes  even 
further  by  requiring  everyone  to  over- 
look another's  trespasses: 

"  '.  .  .  ye  ought  to  forgive  one  another; 
for  he  that  forgiveth  not  his  brother 
his  trespasses  standeth  condemned  be- 
fore the  Lord;  for  there  remaineth  in 
him  the  greater  sin.'  (D&C  64:9.) 

"To  pray  for  power  to  see  things  as 
they  are,  not  as  others  imagine  them  to 
be;  to  cherish  charity  in  our  hearts  for 
our  fellow  men;  to  realize  that,  next  to 
love,  sympathy  is  the  divinest  attribute 
of  the  human  soul,  and  to  manifest  it 
for  all  things,  both  great  and  small;  to 


114 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

strive  by  righteous  endeavor  to  hasten 
the  day  when  men  of  all  nations  shall 
live  as  brothers — these  are  some  of  the 
ideals  of  life  which  should  be  empha- 
sized by  all  men  everywhere.  .  .  ." 
(The  Instructor,  Vol.  95,  June  1960, 
pp.  177-178.) 

"In  a  world  where  sorrow" 

Most  men  have  plenty  of  trouble 
anyway.  Why  should  we  add  to  the 
humiliation,  embarrassment,  sorrow, 
and  worry  of  another?  Yes,  most  men 
are  already  carrying  a  heavy  load.  Why 
should  any  one  of  us  wish  to  add  to 
that  already  heavy  cross?  May  we  put 
aside  bitterness,  hate,  jealousy,  and  quit 
judging  the  other  fellow!  If  we  could 
have  courage  to  come  to  the  rescue  of 
the  man  who  is  being  attacked  when 
he  is  not  present  to  defend  him- 
self, we  could  save  the  heartbreaks  of 
one  another. 

May  I  quote  from  William  George 
Jordan: 

"The  second  most  deadly  instrument 
of  destruction  is  the  gun — the  first  is 
the  human  tongue.  The  gun  merely 
kills  bodies;  the  tongue  kills  reputa- 
tions and  ofttimes  ruins  characters. 
Each  gun  works  alone;  each  loaded 
tongue  has  a  hundred  accomplices. 

"The  havoc  of  the  gun  is  visible  at 
once,  the  full  evil  of  the  tongue  lives 
through  all  the  years.  .  .  . 

Crimes  of  the  Tongue 

"The  crimes  of  the  tongue  are  words 
of  unkindness,  anger,  malice,  envy, 
bitterness,  harsh  criticism,  gossip,  lying 
and  scandal.  Theft  and  murder  are 
awful  crimes,  yet  in  any  single  year 
the  aggregate  sorrow,  pain  and  suffer- 
ing they  cause  in  a  nation  is  micro- 
scopic when  compared  with  the  sorrows 
that  come  from  the  crimes  of  the  tongue. 

"At  the  hands  of  a  thief  or  a  murderer 
few  of  us  suffer,  even  indirectly.  But 
from  the  careless  tongue  of  friend,  the 
cruel  tongue  of  enemy,  who  is  free? 
No  human  being  can  live  a  life  so  true, 
so  fair,  so  pure  as  to  be  beyond  the 
reach  of  malice  or  immune  from  the 
poisonous  emanations  of  envy.  The 
insidious  attacks  against  one's  reputa- 
tion, the  loathsome  innuendoes,  slurs, 
half-lies  by  which  jealous  mediocrity 


Third  Day 

seeks  to  ruin  its  superiors,  are  like  those 
insect  parasites  that  kill  the  heart  and 
life  of  a  mighty  oak. 

"Scandal  is  one  of  the  crimes  of  the 
tongue,  but  it  is  only  one.  Every  indi- 
vidual who  breathes  a  word  of  scandal 
is  an  active  stockholder  in  a  society 
for  the  spread  of  moral  contagion.  He 
is  instantly  punished  by  nature  by  hav- 
ing his  mental  eyes  dimmed  to  sweetness 
and  purity,  and  his  mind  deadened  to 
the  sunlight  and  glow  of  charity. 

"A  few  words  lightly  spoken  by  the 
tongue  of  slander,  a  significant  expres- 
sion of  the  eyes,  a  cruel  shrug  of  the 
shoulders,  with  a  pursing  of  the  lips — 
and  then  friendly  hands  grow  cold,  the 
accustomed  smile  is  displaced  by  a 
sneer,  and  one  stands  alone  and  aloof 
with  a  dazed  feeling  of  wonder  at  the 
vague,  intangible  something  that  has 
caused  it  all. 

"For  this  craze  for  scandal,  sensational 
newspapers  of  today  are  largely  respon- 
sible. [I  am  not  referring  to  our  news- 
papers.] Each  newspaper  is  not  one 
tongue,  but  a  thousand  or  a  million 
tongues,  telling  the  same  foul  story  to 
as  many  pairs  of  listening  ears.  The 
vultures  of  sensationalism  scent  the 
carcass  of  immorality  afar  off.  From  the 
uttermost  part  of  the  earth  they  collect 
the  sin,  disgrace  and  folly  of  humanity, 
and  show  them  bare  to  the  world. 

"They  do  not  even  require  facts,  for 
morbid  memories  and  fertile  imagina- 
tions make  even  the  worst  of  the 
world's  happenings  seem  tame  when 
compared  with  their  monstrosities  of 
invention.  These  stories,  and  the  dis- 
cussions they  excite,  develop  in  readers 
a  cheap,  shrewd  power  of  distortion  of 
the  acts  of  all  around  them."  (The 
Kingship  of  Self-Control  by  William 
George  Jordan.) 

When  we  look  at  other  men,  we 
may  think  they  have  no  problems,  that 
they  have  no  worries,  no  sadness;  but 
someone  said,  "Do  not  judge  another 
man  until  you  have  walked  in  his  shoes 
for  a  while!" 

"Nay  Speak  No  111" 

"Nay  speak  no  ill;  a  kindly  word 
Can  never  leave  a  sting  behind; 
And,  oh,  to  breathe  each  tale  we've 
heard 


ELDER  ]OHN  LONGDEN 


115 


Is  far  beneath  a  noble  mind. 
Full  oft  a  better  seed  is  sown 
By  choosing  thus  the  kinder  plan, 
For,  if  but  little  good  is  known, 
Still  let  us  speak  the  best  we  can. 

"Give  me  the  heart  that  fain  would 
hide, 

Would  fain  another's  faults  efface. 

How  can  it  please  the  human  pride, 

To  prove  humanity  but  base? 

No,  let  us  reach  a  higher  mood, 

A  nobler  estimate  of  man; 

Be  earnest  in  the  search  for  good 

And  speak  of  all  the  best  we  can. 

"Then  speak  no  ill,  but  lenient  be 
To  other's  failings  as  your  own. 
If  you're  the  first  a  fault  to  see, 
Be  not  the  first  to  make  it  known, 
For  life  is  but  a  passing  day; 


No  lip  may  tell  how  brief  its  span; 
Then,  O  the  little  time  we  stay, 
Let's  speak  all  the  best  we  can." 

— Anon.  Hymns,  Church  of  Jesus 

Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 

page  116 

May  God  bless  us  that  we  may  do 
so,  and  that  we  shall  never  add  to  the 
worries  of  a  friend  or  a  brother,  I  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  has  just  addressed  us. 
Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  next  speaker.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Ezra  Taft  Benson 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Much  has  been  said  about  the  resur- 
rection of  Jesus  Christ  during  this  con- 
ference, and  for  several  weeks  past  by 
many  peoples  of  the  Christian  faith  as 
the  Easter  season  has  been  commemo- 
rated. The  resurrection,  we  testify,  is  a 
reality.  Every  testimony-bearing  mem- 
ber of  this  Church  gives  this  witness. 

Today,  I  should  like  to  speak  about  a 
reality  yet  to  come — the  second  coming 
of  Jesus  Christ.  The  signs  and  events 
preceding  his  second  coming  are  clearly 
taught  in  the  scriptures  and  furthermore 
are  being  fulfilled  now. 

By  way  of  review,  while  the  Savior 
was  upon  the  earth  on  one  occasion  he 
met  with: 

"The  Pharisees  also  with  the  Saddu- 
cees  came,  and  tempting  desired  him 
that  he  would  shew  them  a  sign 
from  heaven. 

"He  answered  and  said  unto  them, 
When  it  is  evening,  ye  say,  It  will  be 
fair  weather:  for  the  sky  is  red. 

"And  in  the  morning,  It  will  be  foul 
weather  to  day:  for  the  sky  is  red  and 
lowering.  O  ye  hypocrites,  ye  can  dis- 
cern the  face  of  the  sky;  but  can  ye  not 
discern  the  signs  of  the  times?"  (Matt. 
16:1-3.) 

I  well  remember  as  a  boy  in  England 


hearing  this  statement  many  times, 
"Red  sky  at  night,  sailors  take  delight. 
Red  sky  in  the  morning,  sailors  take 
warning." 

Later,  the  Savior  sat  upon  the  Mount 
of  Olives;  the  disciples  came  unto  him 
privately,  saying:  ".  .  .  Tell  us,  when 
shall  these  things  be?  and  what  shall  be 
the  sign  of  thy  coming,  and  of  the  end 
of  the  world? 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
them,  Take  heed  that  no  man  deceive 
you. 

"For  many  shall  come  in  my  name, 
saying,  I  am  Christ;  and  shall  deceive 
many. 

"And  ye  shall  hear  of  wars  and 
rumours  of  wars:  see  that  ye  be  not 
troubled:  for  all  these  things  must  come 
to  pass,  but  the  end  is  not  yet. 

"For  nation  shall  rise  against  nation, 
and  kingdom  against  kingdom:  and 
there  shall  be  famines,  and  pestilences, 
and  earthquakes,  in  divers  places. 

"And  then  shall  many  be  offended, 
and  shall  betray  one  another,  and  shall 
hate  one  another. 

"And  many  false  prophets  shall  rise, 
and  shall  deceive  many. 

"And  because  iniquity  shall  abound, 
the  love  of  many  shall  wax  cold. 


116 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

"But  he  that  shall  endure  unto  the 
end,  the  same  shall  be  saved. 

"And  this  gospel  of  the  kingdom 
shall  be  preached  in  all  the  world  for 
a  witness  unto  all  nations;  and  then 
shall  the  end  come."  (Ibid.,  24:3-7, 
10-14.) 

Evidence 

Think  of  the  signs  and  events  of  the 
past  several  weeks — world-wide,  bearing 
on  these  predictions.  We  note,  then,  as 
the  time  approached  for  the  Savior's 
departure  from  his  disciples,  he  gave 
them  instructions  as  to  their  mission, 
to  carry  the  gospel  to  all  the  world.  He 
also  instructed  them  in  relation  to  con- 
ditions which  would  prevail  on  the 
earth  preceding  his  second  coming. 
Peoples  of  the  earth  would  reject  him 
and  his  mission. 

False  doctrines  would  arise  and  there 
would  be  wars  and  rumors  of  wars  be- 
cause of  the  difficulties  that  would  arise 
in  the  hearts  of  men.  Nation  would 
rise  against  nation.  Peace  would  be 
taken  from  the  earth,  but  his  disciples 
should  endeavor  to  remain  faithful  and 
true  to  their  covenants  to  the  end. 

As  we  review  the  happenings  of  the 
past  few  years,  we  realize  the  most 
dreadful  wars  of  all  time  have  been 
fought  in  this  dispensation,  and  the 
end  is  not  yet.  There  are  uprisings  in 
many,  many  countries  today.  We  have 
signs  in  the  heavens  and  in  the  earth. 
Have  they  become  so  common  we  fail 
to  recognize  them?  In  recent  years, 
around  the  world,  we  have  had  some 
of  the  most  destructive  earthquakes 
of  history.  Distress  in  and  among  na- 
tions is  increasing  daily.  Will  anyone 
say  that  men's  hearts  are  not  failing 
them?  Today,  millions  of  people  sit  and 
tremble  in  fear  of  what  may  happen. 
The  wickedness  of  the  world  increases. 
Nations  arc  preparing  more  earnestly 
than  ever  before  for  the  final  great 
struggle. 

Among  the  wonderful  signs  which 
would  be  given  to  indicate  the  near 
approach  of  his  advent,  there  would  not 
only  be  wars  but  also  earthquakes  in 
divers  places,  distress  among  nations, 
elements  in  commotion  in  tornados  and 
hurricanes,  the  sea  heaving  itself  beyond 
its  bounds.    There  would  be  signs  in 


Third  Day 

the  heavens  as  well  as  in  the  earth  of 
unusual  proportions.  To  impress  his 
disciples  that  these  events  would  surely 
come,  the  Savior  said: 

"Heaven  and  earth  shall  pass  away, 
but  my  words  shall  not  pass  away. 

"But  of  that  day  and  hour  knoweth 
no  man,  no,  not  the  angels  of  heaven, 
but  my  Father  only."  (Ibid.,  24:35-36.) 

Today  weapons  are  being  made  more 
dreadful  than  ever  known  before,  and 
fear  enters  into  the  hearts  of  all  people. 
Is  it  so  that  we  are  able  to  see  that  the 
sky  is  red  in  the  morning  or  in  the 
evening  and  yet  fail  to  see  the  signs  in 
the  heavens  or  in  the  earth?  Surely 
there  will  be  signs  among  the  heavenly 
bodies  before  the  end  shall  come.  The 
earth  will  reel,  the  sun  be  darkened, 
the  moon  not  give  its  light. 

Is  the  airplane  flying  in  the  skies 
from  one  country  to  another  a  sign?  The 
heavens  are  filled  with  them,  and 
people  are  fulfilling  the  prophecy  of 
Isaiah  60:8.  "Who  are  these  that  fly 
as  a  cloud,  and  as  the  doves  to  their 
windows?" 

Moreover  are  not  the  missiles  which 
are  shot  into  the  outer  space  and  which 
revolve  around  the  earth  signs?  Will 
anyone  say  that  these  do  not,  in  a  large 
measure,  come  under  the  prediction 
made  by  the  Lord  on  the  Mount  of 
Olives  almost  2000  years  ago?  Surely 
they  are  signs  in  the  heavens,  and  there 
will  yet  come  other  signs  as  the  Lord 
has  promised. 

It  appears  that  the  trouble  brewing 
in  this  world  in  which  the  hearts  of 
men  are  failing  them  is  here,  and  other 
even  greater  manifestations  of  the  near 
approach  of  the  Lord  are  yet  to  come. 
Will  we  be  in  a  category  of  the  people 
in  the  days  of  Noah  as  recorded  in 
Luke?  "And  as  it  was  in  the  days  of 
Noe,  so  shall  it  be  also  in  the  days  of 
the  Son  of  man. 

"They  did  eat,  they  drank,  they  mar- 
ried wives,  they  were  given  in  marriage, 
until  the  day  that  Noe  entered  into 
the  ark,  and  the  flood  came,  and  de- 
stroyed them  all. 

"Likewise  also  as  it  was  in  the  days 
of  Lot;  they  did  eat,  they  drank,  they 
bought,  they  sold,  they  planted,  they 
builded; 

"But  the  same  day  that  Lot  went  out 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 


117 


of  Sodom  it  rained  fire  and  brimstone 
from  heaven,  and  destroyed  them  all. 

"Even  thus  shall  it  be  in  the  day 
when  the  Son  of  man  is  revealed." 
(Luke  17:26-30.) 

Or  as  Peter  predicted  in  2  Peter  3:3-4: 
"Knowing  this  first,  that  there  shall 
come  in  the  last  days  scoffers,  walking 
after  their  own  lusts, 

"And  saying,  Where  is  the  promise 
of  his  coming?  .  .  ." 

Time  Not  Known  to  Man 

True,  the  precise  time  of  Christ's  com- 
ing has  not  been  made  known  to  man. 
Yet  I  have  no  fear  in  my  heart.  Neither 
has  anyone  with  a  testimony  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  By  learning  to 
comprehend  the  signs  of  the  times,  by 
watching  the  development  of  the  work 
of  God  among  the  nations,  and  by  not- 
ing the  rapid  fulfilment  of  significant 
prophecies,  we  may  perceive  the  progres- 
sive evidence  of  the  approaching  event; 
but  the  hour  or  the  day,  no  man  know- 
eth,  neither  the  angels  in  heaven  nor 
shall  they  know  until  he  comes.  His 
coming  will  be  a  surprise  to  those  who 
have  ignored  his  warnings  and  who 
have  failed  to  watch.  Watch,  therefore, 
for  ye  know  neither  the  day  nor  the 
hour  wherein  the  Son  of  man  cometh. 

Likewise,  Peter  predicted  the  Saints 
also  shall  hardly  escape.  Nevertheless 
I,  the  Lord,  am  with  them.  (See  1  Pet. 
4:18.)  This  is  a  great  promise  to  those 
who  will  keep  their  covenants.  Another 
sure  sign  to  take  place  before  his  sec- 
ond coming  was  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel  and  kingdom  here  on  earth  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  This  we  testify 
took  place  134  years  ago. 

Scriptural  Evidence 

The  scriptures  are  replete  with  testi- 
monies pertaining  to  the  second  coming 
of  Jesus  Christ.  I  would  have  you  note 
Job  and  the  Prophet  Daniel,  also  the 
words  of  the  Apostles  after  the  cruci- 
fixion of  Jesus:  ".  .  .  this  same  Jesus, 
which  is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven, 
shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have 
seen  him  go  into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11.) 

Timothy  had  this  to  say:  ".  .  .  and 
unto  them  that  look  for  him  shall  he 
appear  the  second  time.  .  .  ."  (Heb. 
9:28.)  Likewise  the  Apostle  Paul  had 
this  firm  conviction  when  he  said:  "For 


the  Lord  himself  shall  descend  from 
heaven  with  a  shout,  with  the  voice  of 
the  archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of 
God:  ..."  (1  Thess.  4:16.) 

But  the  crowning  testimony  of  all  is 
from  the  Savior  of  the  world  himself: 
".  .  .  I  am  Jesus  Christ,  who  cometh 
quickly,  in  an  hour  you  think  not" 
(D&C  51:20),  given  by  revelation  from 
the  Lord  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
in  May  1831. 

May  we  be  in  the  category  predicted 
by  the  Savior:  "But  know  this,  that  if 
the  goodman  of  the  house  had  known 
in  what  watch  the  thief  would  come, 
he  would  have  watched,  and  would  not 
have  suffered  his  house  to  be  broken  up. 

"Therefore  be  ye  also  ready:  for  in 
such  an  hour  as  ye  think  not  the  Son 
of  man  cometh."  (Matt.  24:43-44.) 

I  bear  witness  that  the  messages  of 
this  conference  have  been  to  warn, 
advise,  counsel,  and  encourage  everyone 
to  prepare  and  be  ready  to  meet  the 
Master,  whether  we  are  still  living  in 
mortality  or  have  completed  our  mis- 
sions here. 

May  we  then  observe  the  signs  which 
are  so  evident  and  have  the  desire  to 
labor  and  watch  and  so  live  as  if  the 
Savior  were  going  to  come  today,  is 
my  prayer  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  John  Longden,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us,  Brother 
Ezra  Taft  Benson,  you  may  sit  down. 
(Laughter)  We  shall  hear  from  you 
this  afternoon. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  will  now  sing  "Worthy 
Is  the  Lamb,"  conducted  by  Elder  John 
R.  Halliday.  The  benediction  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  John  E.  Carr,  formerly 
president  of  the  New  England  Mission, 
after  which  this  conference  will  be 
adjourned  until  two  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 


The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang  the  anthem, 
"Worthy  Is  The  Lamb,"  following 
which  singing  the  closing  prayer  was 
offered  by  Elder  John  E.  Carr,  formerly 
President  of  the  New  England  Mission. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


118  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Monday,  April  6  Third  Day 

THIRD  DAY 


AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  held  at  2:00  p.m.,  Monday, 
April  6th,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  President  Hugh 
B.  Brown  conducting. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Chor- 
ale furnished  the  choral  music  for  this 
session.  Kurt  Weinzinger  conducted, 
Frank  W.  Asper  was  at  the  organ. 

President  Brown  opened  the  meeting 
with  the  following  introductory  remarks: 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah,  in  the  seventh  and 
concluding  session  of  the  one  hundred 
and  thirty-fourth  Annual  Conference  of 
The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints. 

This  afternoon  many  television  and 
radio  stations  throughout  the  western 
part  of  the  United  States  will  carry  the 
proceedings  of  this  concluding  session. 

We  wish  to  extend  a  cordial  welcome 
to  all  present  this  afternoon — to  special 
guests,  educational  leaders,  stake  presi- 
dencies, bishoprics  and  members  of 
general  auxiliary  boards,  and  to  those 
listening  in. 

The  music  for  this  session  will  be 
rendered  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Chorale,  with  Kurt  Weinzinger 


conducting.  Frank  W.  Asper  is  at  the 
organ.  We  shall  begin  this  service  by 
the  Choir  singing,  "Pilgrim's  Chorus," 
after  which  the  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Clifford  O.  Gledhill, 
formerly  president  of  the  Great  Lakes 
Mission. 


The  opening  selection  by  the  Brig- 
ham Young  University  Chorale  was 
"Pilgrim's  Chorus." 

Elder  Clifford  O.  Gledhill,  formerly 
President  of  the  Great  Lakes  Mission, 
offered  the  opening  prayer. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale will  now  sing,  "I  Know  That  My 
Redeemer  Lives."  After  the  singing 
Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  address  us. 


The  Chorale  sang  the  hymn,  "I  Know 
That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  and  President  of  the 
European  Mission  will  be  our  first 
speaker  this  afternoon.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Humbly  and  gratefully  I  approach  this 
sacred  assignment. 

As  the  ancient  Apostle  declared  on 
the  Mount  of  Transfiguration:  ".  .  .  it 
is  good  for  us  to  be  here:  .  .  ." 
(Matt.  17:4.) 

I  am  grateful  to  President  David  O. 
McKay,  whom  I  sustain  as  a  prophet 
of  God,  for  inviting  Sister  Benson  and 
me  to  attend  this  great  conference, 
even  though  we  had  not  expected  it, 
and  even  though  it  is  not  easy  to  leave 
the  mission  field. 


Have  you  ever  attended  a  mission- 
wide  conference  of  more  than  two  hun- 
dred devoted,  enthusiastic,  wonderful 
missionaries?  We  were  in  the  midst  of 
a  series  of  such  inspiring  meetings  when 
President  McKay's  cablegram  arrived. 
In  fact,  we  concluded  one  of  these  mis- 
sionary conferences  in  Dusseldorf,  Ger- 
many, only  Wednesday,  April  1.  It 
was,  I  believe,  the  best  April  First  Day 
I  have  ever  spent. 

We  bring  you  the  love  and  greetings 
of  2100  of  some  of  the  finest  young 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


119 


men  and  women  to  be  found  anywhere, 
your  sons  and  daughters.  They  are  not 
perfect,  but  I  say  to  you,  they  are  a 
credit  to  their  loved  ones,  their  com- 
munities, and  the  Church.  I  know  the 
Lord  loves  them  and  is  magnifying 
them,  at  times  even  beyond  their 
natural  abilities,  which  is  one  of  the 
most  soul-satisfying  experiences  that 
can  come  to  man. 

We  bring  you  warm  greetings  from 
twelve  dedicated  mission  presidents  and 
their  devoted  companions. 

We  also  bring  you  the  love  and  fel- 
lowship of  tens  of  thousands  of  faithful 
members — many  of  them  new  in  the 
Church — from  Norway,  Sweden,  Fin- 
land, Denmark,  Switzerland,  Austria, 
and  Germany,  who  love  the  Lord  and 
his  work  and  rejoice  in  the  brotherhood 
they  enjoy  in  the  Church. 

It  is  a  high  and  sacred  honor  to  bear 
witness  to  the  divine  mission  of  Jesus 
Christ;  to  represent  his  great  Church; 
to  be  an  ambassador  of  truth  to  our 
Father's  children;  to  be  called  by  a 
prophet  of  the  Lord  to  go  into  the 
world  and  proclaim  the  glad  tidings 
that  God  has  again  spoken  from  the 
heavens:  that  the  heavens  are  not 
sealed,  that  God  still  communicates 
with  men  on  the  earth,  and  that  the 
pure  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  has  again 
been  restored  to  the  earth  in  its  fulness. 

I  rejoice  in  this  glorious  privilege, 
thank  the  Lord  for  this  rich  opportunity 
and  blessing,  and  bear  solemn  witness 
to  the  truth  of  these  things. 

We  meet  here  in  this  great  confer- 
ence with  a  prayer  of  gratitude  in  our 
hearts  and  on  our  lips  for  the  privilege 
of  living  in  this  choice  period  when 
the  light  of  truth  has  burst  forth.  We 
meet  in  a  great  Christian  nation — a  na- 
tion with  a  solid  spiritual  foundation — 
a  nation  departing  from  its  basic 
concepts. 

As  a  people  we  have  just  joined  with 
others  of  the  Christian  world  in  the 
celebration  of  Easter.  Today  flags  are 
at  half  mast  as  we  mourn  the  passing 
of  a  great  patriot,  General  Douglas 
MacArthur,  and  the  sweet  wife  of  our 
beloved  Brother  S.  Dilworth  Young. 
It  is,  therefore,  most  fitting  that  we 
consider   together  that  most  glorious 


event,  the  resurrection  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ. 

Testimony:  Jesus  Is  the  Christ 

I  bear  witness  to  you  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ,  the  Savior  and  Redeemer  of  the 
world — the  very  Son  of  God. 

He  was  born  the  babe  of  Bethlehem. 

He  lived  and  ministered  among  men. 

He  was  crucified  on  Calvary. 

His  friends  deserted  him. 

His  closest  associates  did  not  fully 
understand  his  mission,  and  they 
doubted.  One  of  the  most  trusted 
denied  knowing  him. 

A  pagan  governor,  struggling  with  his 
conscience  after  consenting  to  Jesus' 
death,  caused  a  sign  to  be  erected  over 
the  cross  proclaiming  him  "JESUS  OF 
NAZARETH  THE  KING  OF  THE 
JEWS."   (John  19:19.) 

He  asked  forgiveness  for  his  tor- 
mentors and  then  willingly  gave  up 
his  life. 

His  body  was  laid  in  a  borrowed 
tomb. 

An  immense  stone  was  placed  over 
the  opening. 

In  the  minds  of  his  stunned  followers 
over  and  over  echoed  some  of  his  last 
words,  ".  .  .  be  of  good  cheer;  I  have 
overcome  the  world."  (Ibid.,  16:33.) 

On  the  third  day  there  was  a  great 
earthquake.  The  stone  was  rolled  back 
from  the  door  of  the  tomb.  Some  of  the 
women,  among  the  most  devoted  of  his 
followers,  came  to  the  place  with  spices 
"and  found  not  the  body  of  the  Lord 
Jesus."  (Luke  24:3.) 

Angels  appeared  and  said  simply, 
"Why  seek  ye  the  living  among  the 
dead? 

"He  is  not  here,  but  is  risen." 
(Ibid.,  24:5-6.) 

There  is  nothing  in  history  to  equal 
that  dramatic  announcement:  "He  is 
not  here,  but  is  risen." 

"He  is  Risen" 

The  greatest  events  of  history  are 
those  which  affect  the  greatest  number 
for  the  longest  periods.  By  this  stand- 
ard, no  event  could  be  more  important 
to  individuals  or  nations  than  the 
resurrection  of  the  Master.  The  even- 
tual resurrection  of  every  soul  who  has 
lived  and  died  on  earth  is  a  scriptural 


120 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

certainty,  and  surely  there  is  no  event 
for  which  one  should  make  more  careful 
preparation.  Nothing  is  more  absolutely 
universal  than  the  resurrection.  Every 
living  being  will  be  resurrected.  ".  .  . 
as  in  Adam  all  die,  even  so  in  Christ 
shall  all  be  made  alive."  (1  Cor.  15:22.) 

There  are  those,  however,  who  act  as 
though  they  do  not  believe  in  eternity 
or  a  resurrection.  They  cower  at  the 
thought  of  nuclear  war,  and  to  save 
their  own  bodies  they  would  have  peace 
at  any  price.  Yet  the  best  assurance 
of  peace  and  life  is  to  be  strong  morally 
and  militarily.  But  they  want  life  at 
the  sacrifice  of  principles.  Rather  than 
choose  liberty  or  death,  they  prefer  life 
with  slavery.  But  they  overlook  a 
crucial  scripture  ".  .  .  fear  not  them 
which  kill  the  body  but  are  not  able 
to  kill  the  soul;  but  rather  fear  him 
which  is  able  to  destroy  both  soul  and 
body  in  hell."  (Matt.  10:28.)  The  Lord 
could,  I  suppose,  have  avoided  the  war 
in  heaven  over  free  agency.  All  he 
needed  to  do  was  to  compromise  with 
the  devil,  but  had  he  done  so  he  would 
have  ceased  to  be  God. 

While  it  is  more  difficult  to  live  the 
truth,  such  as  standing  for  free  agency, 
some  of  us  may  in  the  not-too-distant 
future  be  required  to  die  for  the  truth. 
But  the  best  preparation  for  eternal 
life  is  to  be  prepared  at  all  times  to 
die — fully  prepared  by  a  valiant  fight 
for  right. 

Let  us  act  like  men,  men  who  are 
sons  of  God,  men  with  a  sure  knowl- 
edge that  there  will  be  a  resurrection 
and  a  final  judgment. 

Yes,  the  resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ 
is  a  glorious  reality.  He  became  the 
first  fruits  of  them  that  slept.  He  truly 
rose  from  the  tomb  the  third  day,  as  he 
and  his  prophets  foretold,  and  became 
in  very  deed  "the  resurrection  and  the 
life."  He  broke  the  bonds  of  death  for 
all  of  us.  We,  too,  will  be  resurrected. 
Our  spirits  will  be  reunited  with  our 
bodies. 

Later  the  Risen  Lord  appeared  to 
other  women,  to  the  two  disciples  on 
the  road  to  Emmaus,  to  Peter,  to  the 
Apostles,  and  "after  that,"  as  reported 
by  Paul,  "he  was  seen  of  about  five 
hundred  brethren  at  once." 

"And  last  of  all,"  continued  Paul, 


Third  Day 

"he  was  seen  of  me  also."  (1  Cor. 
15:6,  8.) 

Resurrection,  A  Glorious  Reality 

Yes,  Christ's  resurrection  was  abun- 
dantly verified.  The  witnesses  are 
many.  Throughout  the  forty  days  fol- 
lowing his  resurrection  the  Lord  mani- 
fested himself  at  intervals  and  gave 
instructions  in  the  things  pertaining  to 
the  kingdom  of  God.  Much  that  he 
said  and  did  is  not  written,  but  such 
things  as  are  of  record,  John  assures 
us,  ".  .  .  are  written,  that  ye  might  be- 
lieve that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Son 
of  God;  and  that  believing  ye  might 
have  life  through  his  name."  (John 
20:31.) 

He  had  told  his  followers  that  he 
must  soon  ascend  unto  his  Father  in 
heaven.  And  as  the  time  of  his  ascen- 
sion drew  nigh,  the  Lord  in  that  last 
solemn  interview  gave  his  parting  in- 
structions to  his  disciples. 

And  when  Christ  and  the  disciples 
had  gone,  "as  far  as  to  Bethany"  where 
Mary,  Martha,  and  Lazarus  lived,  the 
Lord  lifted  his  hands  and  blessed  them. 
And  while  he  yet  spoke  he  rose  from 
their  midst  until  a  cloud  received  him 
from  out  of  their  sight.  As  the  Apostles 
stood  gazing  steadfastly  upward,  two 
personages  clothed  in  white  apparel 
appeared  by  them.  They  spoke  unto 
the  eleven  saying,  "Ye  men  of  Galilee, 
why  stand  ye  gazing  up  into  heaven? 
this  same  Jesus,  which  is  taken  up  from 
you  into  heaven,  shall  so  come  in  like 
manner  as  ye  have  seen  him  go  into 
heaven."  (Acts  1:9-11,  also  Luke 
24:50-51.) 

Worshipfully,  and  with  great  joy  the 
Apostles  returned  to  Jerusalem.  The 
Lord's  ascension  was  accomplished.  It 
was  truly  a  literal  departure  of  a  mate- 
rial being,  as  his  resurrection  had  been 
an  actual  return  of  his  spirit  to  his  own 
physical  body.  Now  the  disciples  began 
to  comprehend  more  fully  that  he 
had  truly  overcome  the  world.  Not 
that  he  had  displaced  Caesar  or  even 
Pilate  who  ruled  over  Judea.  The  great 
majority  of  the  world's  people  had  still 
not  even  heard  of  him.  Not  that  man's 
inhumanity  to  man  was  suddenly  wiped 
out.    But  there  was  victory  over  the 


ELDER  EZRA 

grave,  always,  until  then,  the  final  con- 
queror of  all  men. 

His  Kingdom  Not  of  This  World 

Then  the  realization  began  to  dawn 
on  his  faithful  followers  that  his  king- 
dom was  not  of  this  world.  He  had 
overcome  the  world  of  hate,  envy,  greed, 
and  lust.  He  had  shown  the  way  for 
man  to  break  the  chains  of  selfishness 
and  vengeance  which  had  bound  him, 
doomed  him  to  mediocrity,  a  prisoner 
of  his  own  misconceptions.  His  disciples 
were  quickened  with  a  realization  that 
this  was  what  he  had  been  teaching 
them.  This  was  what  his  life  had 
spelled  out  to  them.  More  clear  became 
his  ringing  words,  "Ye  have  heard  that 
it  hath  been  said,  Thou  shalt  love  thy 
neighbour,  and  hate  thine  enemy. 

"But  I  say  unto  you,  Love  your  ene- 
mies, bless  them  that  curse  you,  do 
good  to  them  that  hate  you,  and  pray 
for  them  which  despitefully  use  you, 
and  persecute  you."  (Matt.  5:43-44.) 

Yes,  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  liberated 
man  from  the  world  by  the  pure  gospel 
of  love.  He  demonstrated  that  man 
through  the  love  of  God  and  through 
kindness  and  charity  to  his  fellows 
could  achieve  his  highest  potential.  He 
lived  the  plain  and  sure  doctrine  of 
service,  of  doing  good  to  all  men,  friends 
and  enemies  alike.  His  charge  to  return 
good  for  evil  is  still  the  greatest  chal- 
lenge to  the  mind  of  man.  At  the  same 
time  it  is  man's  greatest  weapon. 

Impact  of  His  Life 

No  other  single  influence  has  had  so 
great  an  impact  on  this  earth  as  the 
life  of  Jesus  the  Christ.  We  cannot 
conceive  of  our  lives  without  his  teach- 
ings. Without  him  we  would  be  lost 
in  a  mirage  of  beliefs  and  worships, 
born  in  fear  and  darkness  where  the 
sensual  and  materialistic  hold  sway. 
We  are  far  short  of  the  goal  he  set 
for  us,  but  we  must  never  lose  sight  of 
it;  nor  must  we  forget  that  our  great 
climb  toward  the  light,  toward  perfec- 
tion, would  not  be  possible  except  for 
his  teachings,  his  life,  his  death,  and 
his  resurrection. 

May  God  hasten  the  day  when  people 
everywhere  will  accept  his  teachings, 
his  example,  and  his  divinity,  yes,  when 


TAFT  BENSON  121 

they  will  accept  as  a  reality  his  glorious 
resurrection  which  broke  the  bonds  of 
death  for  all  of  us. 

Yes,  we  must  learn  and  learn  again 
that  only  through  accepting  and  living 
the  gospel  of  love  as  taught  by  the 
Master,  and  only  through  doing  his 
will  can  we  break  the  bonds  of  igno- 
rance and  doubt  that  bind  us.  We  must 
learn  this  simple,  glorious  truth  so  that 
we  can  experience  the  sweet  joys  of  the 
spirit  now  and  eternally.  We  must 
lose  ourselves  in  doing  his  will.  We 
must  place  him  first  in  our  lives.  Yes, 
our  blessings  multiply  as  we  share  his 
love  with  our  neighbor. 

To  the  extent  that  we  stray  from  the 
path  marked  out  for  us  by  the  Man  of 
Galilee,  to  that  extent  we  are  failing  in 
our  individual  battles  to  overcome  our 
worlds.  But  we  are  not  without  his 
help.  Again  and  again  he  told  his 
disciples,  and  all  of  us,  "Let  not  your 
heart  be  troubled:  .  .  ."  (John  14:1.) 

"If  ye  shall  ask  any  thing  in  my 
name,  I  will  do  it."  (Ibid.,  14:14.) 

"I  will  not  leave  you  comfortless:  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  14:18.) 

"Peace  I  leave  with  you,  my  peace  I 
give  unto  you":  (Ibid.,  14:27.) 

His  Comforting  Spirit 

We  feel  his  comforting  spirit  in  the 
sweet  prayer  of  a  child  and  the  quiet 
abiding  faith  of  all  who  have  let  his 
gospel  permeate  their  lives.  What  a 
priceless  gift  it  is  that  we  can  know 
him  through  our  own  prayers  and 
through  the  sacred  and  solemn  testi- 
monies of  those  that  have  seen  him, 
known  him,  felt  his  presence. 

On  this  spring  day  more  than  1900 
years  after  his  resurrection,  I  give  you 
my  solemn  witness  and  testimony  that 
I  know  that  Jesus  the  Christ  lives.  He 
was  in  very  deed  raised  from  the  dead  as 
we  shall  be.  He  is  "the  resurrection 
and  the  life:  .  .  ."  He  appeared  unto 
many  in  the  Old  World  after  his  resur- 
rection and  according  to  modern  scrip- 
tures, sacred  to  me  and  to  Latter-day 
Saints  everywhere,  he  spent  three 
glorious  days  before  his  final  ascen- 
sion with  his  "other  sheep"  here  in 
America,  the  new  world. 


122 

Monday,  April  6 

By  him  and  through  him  and  his 
gospel,  God  the  Father  has  made  it 
possible  for  you  and  me  to  overcome 
the  world. 

Yes,  my  friends,  Jesus  is  the  Christ. 
He  lives.  He  did  break  the  bonds  of 
death.  He  is  more  than  "a  great  moral 
teacher."  He  is  our  Savior  and  Re- 
deemer, the  very  Son  of  God.  And  he 
will  come  again.  ".  .  .  this  same  Jesus, 
which  is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven, 
shall  so  come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have 
seen  him  go  into  heaven."  (Acts  1:11.) 

His  Church  Restored 

Yes,  this  same  Jesus  has  already  come 
to  earth  in  our  day.  The  Resurrected 
Christ — glorified,  exalted,  the  God  of 
this  world  under  the  Father — appeared 
to  the  boy  Joseph  Smith  in  1820.  This 
same  Jesus  who  was  the  God  of  Abra- 
ham, Isaac,  and  Jacob,  the  God  of 
Moses,  the  Creator  of  this  earth,  has 
come  in  our  day.  He  was  introduced 
by  the  Father  to  Joseph  Smith  in  these 
words: 

"This  Is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him!" 
(Joseph  Smith  2:17.) 

The  appearance  of  God  the  Father 
and  his  Son  Jesus  Christ  to  the  boy 
Prophet  is  the  greatest  event  that  has 
occurred  in  this  world  since  the  resur- 
rection of  the  Master.  As  the  restored 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  we  humbly  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

gratefully  bear  this  witness  to  all  men. 
This  message  is  a  world  message.  It  is 
the  truth.  More  than  two  million 
members  of  the  Church  throughout  the 
world  bear  this  solemn  testimony. 

Today  thousands  of  faithful  mission- 
aries at  home  and  abroad  freely  carry 
this  all-important  message  to  the  world. 
Jesus  is  the  Christ,  the  Savior  of  man- 
kind, the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the 
very  Son  of  God.  He  is  the  God  of 
this  world,  our  advocate  with  the 
Father. 

Today  16,000  missionary-messengers 
of  truth,  and  the  more  than  two  million 
members  of  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
of  Latter-day  Saints — the  Mormon 
Church— bear  witness  that  God  has 
again  spoken  from  the  heavens,  that 
Jesus  Christ  has  appeared  again  unto 
man,  that  the  resurrection  is  a  reality. 

Today  I  testify  to  the  truth  of  the 
message  which  they  bear  and  add  my 
solemn  witness,  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

The  moving  testimony  to  which  we 
have  just  listened  was  given  by  Elder 
Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  and  President  of  the  Euro- 
pean Mission. 

Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now  speak 
to  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Richard 
L.  Evans  of  the  same  Council. 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  would  like  to  say  a  few  things  this 
afternoon  about  revelation,  which  un- 
derlies all  that  God  has  done  in  the 
earth  with  his  children.  I  invite  you 
to  join  your  prayers  with  mine  that 
while  I  speak,  you  and  I  may  both  enjoy 
the  spirit  of  inspiration.  That  we  do 
so  is  imperative,  because  to  talk  about 
revelation  without  the  spirit  of  inspira- 
tion would  be  futile. 

God  Communicates  with  Men 
First,  as  to  the  Principle: 

Prayer  is  the  means  by  which  men 


communicate  with  God.  Revelation  is 
the  means  by  which  God  communicates 
with  men.  Revelation  is  indispensable 
to  an  understanding  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  very  nature  of  the 
gospel  is  such  that  without  the  active 
and  constant  operation  of  the  prin- 
ciple of  revelation,  it  could  not  be 
understood  nor  could  it  be  had. 

The  gospel  deals  with  total  truth- — 
".  .  .  knowledge  of  things  as  they  are, 
and  as  they  were,  and  as  they  are  to 
come."  (D&C  93:24.)  Such  truth  is 
not  to  be  had  through  man's  ordinary 
learning  processes.    His  sensory  powers 


ELDER  MARK 

are  calculated  and  adapted  to  deal  only 
with  the  things  of  this  earth.  Without 
revelation,  man's  intellect  is  wholly  in- 
adequate for  the  discovery  of  the  ulti- 
mate truth  with  which  the  gospel  deals. 

Paul  spoke  of  this  to  the  Corinthians 
when  he  said: 

".  .  .  my  speech  and  my  preaching 
was  not  with  enticing  words  of  man's 
wisdom,  but  in  demonstration  of  the 
Spirit  and  of  power: 

".  .  .  your  faith  should  not  stand  in 
the  wisdom  of  men,  but  in  the  power 
of  God. 

"For  what  man  [continues  Paul] 
knoweth  the  things  of  a  man,  save  the 
spirit  of  man  which  is  in  him?  even  so 
the  things  of  God  knoweth  no  man, 
but  the  Spirit  of  God."  (1  Cor.  2:4- 
5,  11.) 

Opens  the  Mind  and  the  Spirit 

The  principle  of  revelation  is  the  key 
which  opens  the  mind  and  spirit  of  man 
to  an  understanding  of  the  gospel. 
There  is  no  other  key  to  such  knowl- 
edge. Thinkers  have  philosophized; 
poets  have  dreamed;  and  scientists  have 
experimented;  but  only  God  speaks 
with  a  sure  knowledge  of  all  truth. 

Some  years  ago  I  listened  to  a  lecturer 
who  argued  long  and  deviously  and 
came  to  the  conclusion  that  there  was 
no  such  thing  as  religious  knowledge. 
Within  his  premises,  he  was  right.  He 
had  no  religious  knowledge,  and  he 
could  not  obtain  any  because  he  had 
ruled  out  revelation. 

It  is  my  witness  to  you,  however,  that 
by  the  power  of  God,  truth  concerning 
the  eternal  verities  with  which  the 
gospel  deals  has  been  in  the  past,  is 
now  being,  and  will  in  the  future  con- 
tinue to  be  communicated  to  men  from 
heaven  by  revelation.  "Revelation"  is 
the  "governing  law  of  conduct" — the 
age-old  established  rule  of  action  or 
principle  by  which  God  communes 
with  men. 

Man  Must  be  Born  Again 

Now  a  word  as  to  the  Nature  of  Reve- 
lation: 

Since  revelation  is  by  nature  spiritual, 
man,  to  receive  it,  must  be  spiritually 
born  again.    You  will  recall  how  ear- 


1  G.  ROMNEY  123 

nestly  Jesus  sought  to  put  this  point 
over  to  Nicodemus,  repeatedly  telling 
him  that  except  a  man  be  born  again, 
he  could  neither  see  nor  enter  the 
kingdom  of  God. 

Man  is  a  dual  being.  He  is  composed 
of  a  spirit  and  a  body.  His  body  came 
into  being  with  his  entrance  into  this 
world  of  mortality.  His  spirit  as  an 
individual  person  was  begotten  unto 
God  in  the  spirit  world.  Through  a 
long  period  of  growth  and  development, 
each  person's  spirit  came  to  know  God 
and  spiritual  things,  including  the  gos- 
pel, obedience  to  which  is  a  prerequi- 
site to  attaining  eternal  life.  Men, 
however,  enter  mortality  spiritually 
blind.  Never  in  this  life  do  they  re- 
cover memory  of  pre-mortal  spiritual 
things.  What  they  here  learn  of  them 
must  be  revealed  anew. 

"To  see  if  they  will  do  .  .  ." 

One  of  God's  purposes  in  granting 
men  mortal  life  is  that  they  might  be 
tested  ".  .  .  to  see  if  they  will  do  all 
things  whatsoever  the  Lord  their  God 
shall  command  them;  .  .  .  they  who 
keep  their  second  estate  [meaning  this 
mortal  estate]  shall  have  glory  added 
upon  their  heads  for  ever  and  ever." 
(Abraham  3:25-26.) 

Since  attaining  this  glory  is  condi- 
tioned upon  obedience  to  the  laws  and 
ordinances  of  the  gospel,  and  since  men 
come  into  life  ignorant  of  these  princi- 
ples and  ordinances,  justice  demands 
that  they  be  given  opportunity  to  learn 
about  them.  God,  being  not  only  just 
but  merciful,  provided  revelation  as 
the  means  by  which  man  might  be 
so  advised. 

Moral  Agency 

The  Lord  also  saw  to  it  that  men 
were  so  constituted  that  by  the  proper 
exercise  of  their  moral  agency  with 
which  he  also  endowed  them,  it  would 
be  natural  for  them  to  respond  to  reve- 
lation. Otherwise,  it  would  not  be 
just  to  hold  them  accountable  for 
their  failure  to  respond  thereto. 

I  know  the  scriptures  say  that  "the 
natural  man  is  an  enemy  to  God,  .  .  ." 
(Mosiah  3:19.)  And  so  he  is  when  he 
rejects  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit  and 
follows  the  lusts  of  the  flesh.    But  he 


124 

Monday,  April  6 

is  not  an  enemy  to  God  when  he  fol- 
lows the  promptings  of  the  Spirit. 

I  firmly  believe  that  notwithstanding 
the  fact  that  men,  as  an  incident  to 
mortality,  are  cast  out  from  the  presence 
of  God  and  deprived  of  past  memories, 
there  still  persists  in  the  spirit  of  every 
human  soul  a  residuum  from  his  pre- 
existent  spiritual  life  which  instinc- 
tively responds  to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit 
of  Christ  until  and  unless  inhibited  by 
the  free  agency  of  the  individual.  If  I 
had  time,  I  could  cite  many  authorities 
on  this  point. 

Manifestations  of  Revelation 

Now,  as  to  the  Manifestations  of 
Revelation: 

Revelation  comes  to  men  in  an  un- 
limited number  of  ways.  Three  sep- 
arate mediums  are  mentioned  in  the 
first  recorded  account  of  revelation — the 
spoken  word,  the  visitation  of  angels, 
and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  As  a 
consequence  of  his  transgression  Adam 
was  cast  out  from  God's  presence.  But 
he  was  not  forsaken.  As  he  and  Eve 
toiled  and  prayed,  ".  .  .  they  heard  the 
voice  of  the  Lord  from  the  way  toward 
the  Garden  of  Eden,  .  .  ."  (Moses  5:4.) 

"And  after  many  days  an  angel  of 
the  Lord  appeared  unto  Adam,  .  .  ." 
(Ibid.,  5:6.) 

The  Holy  Ghost 

"And  in  that  day  the  Holy  Ghost  fell 
upon  Adam,  which  beareth  record  of 
the  Father  and  the  Son, .  .  ."  (Ibid.,  5:9.) 

The  spoken  word  has  been  heard  on 
many  occasions.  Moses  heard  it  from 
the  burning  bush;  Samuel  in  the  tem- 
ple. The  Nephites  heard  the  voice  of 
the  unseen  Jesus. 

Visitations  of  Angels 

As  to  the  visitation  of  angels,  we 
have  many  examples.  One  which  moves 
me  as  much  as  any  is  the  record  in  the 
third  chapter  of  Ether  of  the  appearance 
of  Jesus  in  his  spirit  body  to  the  brother 
of  Jared. 

You  will  remember  how,  as  Alma  was 
traveling  from  Ammonihah  to  Aaron, 
an  angel  appeared  to  him  and  said, 
referring  to  the  time  of  Alma's  conver- 
sion,   "I    am    the    same    angel  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

appeared  to  you  before."  (See  Alma 
8:15.) 

We  read  in  the  110th  section  of  the 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  about  the 
visitation  to  the  Prophet  and  Oliver  of 
Moses,  Elias,  and  Elijah. 

The  Unspoken  Word 

Another  manifestation  of  revelation 
is  the  unspoken  word,  a  good  illustra- 
tion of  which  is  given  us  by  Enos.  He 
says:  ".  .  .  while  I  was  thus  struggling 
in  the  spirit,  behold,  the  voice  of  the 
Lord  came  into  my  mind  again,  saying: 
.  .  ."  (Enos  10.)  Then  he  tells  us 
what  the  voice  of  the  Lord  put  in  his 
mind.  This  is  a  very  common  means 
of  revelation.  It  comes  into  one's 
mind  in  words  and  sentences.  With 
this  medium  of  revelation  I  am  per- 
sonally well  acquainted. 

Impelling  Impulse 

Another  medium  is  an  impelling  im- 
pulse of  the  nature  received  by  the 
Prophet  when  he  read  James  1:5. 
"Never  [said  he]  did  any  passage  of 
scripture  come  with  more  power  to 
the  heart  of  man  than  this  did  at  this 
time  to  mine.  It  seemed  to  enter  with 
great  force  into  every  feeling  of  my 
heart."  (Joseph  Smith  2:12.) 

Dreams 

Another  means  is  dreams — Jacob's 
ladder,  for  example,  Joseph's  dream  of 
the  sheaves,  Pharaoh's  dream  of  the 
lean  and  fat  years.  There  were  Nebu- 
chadnezzar's dream,  Daniel's  dream, 
Lehi's  dream.  Joseph,  the  husband  of 
Mary,  was  warned  in  a  dream  to  take 
Mary  and  Jesus  into  Egypt. 

Visions 

Another  medium  of  revelation  is  vi- 
sions. You  know  about  Nephi's  vision, 
the  Prophet's  great  vision  recorded  in 
the  76th  section  of  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  President  Joseph  F. 
Smith's  vision  of  work  for  the  dead  in 
the  spirit  world. 

Flashes  of  Ideas 

Flashes  of  ideas  that  come  into  one's 
mind  represent  another  type  or  mani- 
festation of  revelation.  Listen  to  this 
statement  of  the  Prophet  Joseph: 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 


125 


"A  person  may  profit  by  noticing  the 
first  intimation  of  the  spirit  of  revela- 
tion; for  instance,  when  you  feel  pure 
intelligence  flowing  into  you,  it  may 
give  you  sudden  strokes  of  ideas,  so  that 
by  noticing  it,  you  may  find  it  fulfilled 
the  same  day  or  soon;  (i.e.)  those  things 
that  were  presented  unto  your  minds 
by  the  Spirit  of  God,  will  come  to  pass; 
and  thus  by  learning  the  Spirit  of  God 
and  understanding  it,  you  may  grow 
into  the  principle  of  revelation,  until 
you  become  perfect  in  Christ  Jesus." 
(Teachings  of  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
p.  151.) 

"Study  it  out" 

One  of  the  most  familiar  types  of 
revelation  is  the  one  which  the  Lord 
took  so  much  pains  to  teach  to  Oliver 
Cowdery.  The  lesson  begins  in  the 
6th  and  8th  sections  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants  and  concludes  it  in  the 
9th  section.  Oliver  wanted  to  trans- 
late, and  the  Lord  finally  gave  his  con- 
sent. But  Oliver  didn't  translate 
because  he  didn't  work  hard  enough. 
When  he  complained  about  it,  the 
Lord  said: 

"Do  not  murmur,  my  son,  for  it  is 
wisdom  in  me  that  I  have  dealt  with 
you  after  this  manner. 

"Behold,  you  have  not  understood; 
you  have  supposed  that  I  would  give 
it  unto  you,  when  you  took  no  thought 
save  it  was  to  ask  me. 

"Ask  if  it  be  right  .  .  ." 

"But,  behold,  I  say  unto  you,  that 
you  must  study  it  out  in  your  mind; 
then  you  must  ask  me  if  it  be  right, 
and  if  it  is  right  I  will  cause  that  your 
bosom  shall  burn  within  you;  there- 
fore, you  shall  feel  that  it  is  right. 

"But  if  it  be  not  right  you  shall  have 
no  such  feelings,  but  you  shall  have  a 
stupor  of  thought.  .  .  ."  (D&C  9:6-9.) 

This  is  the  kind  of  revelation  we  can 
all  live  by.  One  need  not  make  serious 
mistakes  in  life.  Such  can  be  avoided 
by  following  this  formula.  It  will 
guide  us  in  all  our  activities  if  we  will 
become  sensitive  to  it. 

The  foregoing  are  but  some  of  the 
means  of  revelation. 

In  connection  with  this  principle  of 


revelation,  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
further  said: 

"We  consider  that  God  has  created 
man  with  a  mind  capable  of  instruc- 
tion, and  a  faculty  which  may  be  en- 
larged in  proportion  to  the  heed  and 
diligence  given  to  the  light  communi- 
cated from  heaven  to  the  intellect;  .  .  . 
the  nearer  man  approaches  perfection, 
the  clearer  are  his  views,  and  the  greater 
his  enjoyments,  till  he  has  overcome  the 
evils  of  his  life  and  lost  every  desire 
for  sin;  and  like  the  ancients,  arrives 
at  that  point  of  faith  where  he  is 
wrapped  in  the  power  and  glory  of  his 
Maker,  and  is  caught  up  to  dwell  with 
Him."  (DHC  2:8.) 

The  Great  Exemplar 

In  qualifying  to  receive  revelation, 
as  in  all  righteousness,  Jesus  is  our 
great  exemplar.  He  so  qualified  him- 
self that  he  received  through  revelation 
"a  fulness  of  the  glory  of  the  Father." 

With  respect  to  this  point,  John  the 
Beloved  bore  this  witness: 

"...  I  beheld  his  glory,  as  the  glory 
of  the  Only  Begotten  of  the  Father,  .  .  . 

"And  I,  John,  saw  that  he  received 
not  of  the  fulness  at  the  first,  .  .  . 

".  .  .  but  continued  from  grace  to 
grace,  until  he  received  a  fulness;  .  .  . 

"And  I,  John,  bear  record  that  he 
received  a  fulness  of  the  glory  of  the 
Father."  (D&C  93:11-13,  16.) 

Keep  Commandments 

To  me,  among  the  most  inspiring 
passages  of  all  scripture  is  the  comment 
of  Jesus  on  this  testimony  of  John's, 
which,  as  you  will  remember,  was 
dictated  to  the  Prophet  by  the  Savior. 
After  quoting  John's  testimony,  Jesus 
said  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

"I  give  unto  you  these  sayings  that 
you  may  understand  and  know  how  to 
worship,  and  know  what  you  worship, 
that  you  may  come  unto  the  Father  in 
my  name,  and  in  due  time  receive  of 
his  fulness. 

"For  if  you  keep  rnv  commandments 
you  shall  receive  of  his  fulness,  and  be 
glorified  in  me  as  I  am  in  the  Father; 
therefore,  I  say  unto  you,  you  shall 
receive  grace  for  grace."  (Ibid.,  93:19-20.) 

Now  this  is  Christ's  promise  to  the 
Prophet,  and  it  is  his  promise  to  us. 


126 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

".  .  .  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness 
unless  he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

"He  that  keepeth  his  commandments 
receiveth  truth  and  light,  until  he  is 
glorified  in  truth  and  knoweth  all 
things."  (Ibid.,  93:27-28.) 

Receive  Light  and  Truth 

We  receive  a  little  revelation;  we  obey 
it;  we  receive  a  little  more,  obey  it,  and 
repeat  the  cycle  over  and  over  again. 

This  is  the  pattern  by  which  the 
promise  of  the  first  paragraph  of  this 
great  revelation  may  be  obtained.  As 
you  now  listen  to  this  promise,  let  your 
souls  be  filled  with  hope. 

"Verily,  thus  saith  the  Lord:  It  shall 
come  to  pass  that  every  soul  who  for- 
saketh  his  sins  and  cometh  unto  me, 
and  calleth  on  my  name,  and  obeyeth 
my  voice,  and  keepeth  my  command- 
ments, shall  see  my  face  and  know 
that  I  am."  (Ibid.,  93:1.) 

In  these  remarks  I  have,  as  you  of 
course  have  noted,  omitted  any  reference 
to  revelation  in  connection  with  the 
great  advances  of  science  in  our  age. 
This  I  have  done  deliberately.  I  know 
that  all  men  live  and  learn  by  the  light 
of  the  Spirit  of  Christ;  I  know  that  all 
progress  in  science  and  other  fields  of 
secular  learning  is  made  possible  by  the 
light  of  Christ.  I  do  not,  however, 
think  that  our  distinctive  message  about 


Third  Day 

revelation  lies  in  such  fields  of  learning 
but  rather  in  the  field  of  religion. 

"God  Has  Opened  the  Heavens" 

Our  message  is  that  we  are  living  in 
the  great  and  last  dispensation  of  the 
gospel  of  Jesus  Christ;  that  God  has 
opened  the  heavens  anew;  that  by  di- 
rect revelation  through  the  means  we 
have  been  considering,  he  has  revealed 
himself,  restored  his  gospel,  set  up  his 
Church  with  power  and  authority  to 
preach  the  gospel  and  administer  the 
saving  ordinances  thereof;  and  that  he 
is  now,  today,  continuing  to  direct  by 
revelation  his  great  program  for  the 
blessing  and  the  salvation  of  the  hu- 
man race. 

Our  great  mission  is  to  declare  this 
message  with  such  simple  clarity  and 
inspired  conviction  that  men  of  all 
lands  will  hearken,  investigate,  and 
prayerfully  seek  until,  through  per- 
sonal revelation  to  themselves,  they 
obtain  a  saving  witness  for  themselves. 
That  we  may  successfully  discharge 
this  mission,  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Marion  G.  Romney  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve.  Elder  Richard 
L.  Evans  of  the  same  Council  will  now 
speak  to  us. 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  and  my  beloved  breth- 
ren and  sisters: 

From  the  time  of  President  McKay's 
opening  address  until  this  moment,  we 
have  been  strengthened  and  refreshed 
in  spirit.  We  have  heard  our  Presi- 
dent's appeal  against  pernicious,  en- 
slaving habits  and  for  preserving  the 
integrity  of  the  home  and  maintain- 
ing moral  standards.  Last  night  late,  I 
reread  the  President's  opening  address, 
which  I  feel  was  one  of  his  finest. 
These  sentences  I  have  taken  from 
his  text: 

".  .  .  that  our  homes  are  kept  unpol- 
luted and  unbroken  by  infidelity;  that 


children  therein  will  be  trained  to  keep 
the  commandments  of  the  Lord,  to  be 
honest,  true,  chaste,  benevolent,  and 
virtuous,  and  to  do  good  to  all  men." 

".  .  .  the  Word  of  Wisdom  .  .  .  goes 
deeper  than  the  ill  effects  upon  the 
body  and  strikes  at  the  very  root  of 
character.  .  .  ." 

"No  other  success  can  compensate  for 
failure  in  the  home." 

"The  most  vicious  enemy  to  home 
life  is  immorality. 

"The  word  of  the  Lord  to  his  Church 
is:  'Keep  yourself  unspotted  from  the 
sins  of  the  world!' " 

We  have  heard  Brother  Lee's  appeal 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


127 


not  to  be  "almost"  only  but  altogether 
what  we  ought  to  be. 

And  we  have  heard  Brother  Hunter's 
most  interesting  analysis  of  the  obliga- 
tion and  privilege  of  tithing.  I  recall 
in  this  connection  a  quotation  from 
President  Moyle,  given  in  the  Manti 
Temple  not  many  months  before  he 
left  us,  in  which  he  was  quoting  as  I 
recall  partly  himself  and  partly  Presi- 
dent McKay.  He  said,  "Tithing  is  as 
much  a  law  as  is  baptism  itself.  We 
are  no  more  compelled  to  keep  the  one 
than  the  other."  And  then  quoting 
President  McKay:  "We  have  been  pray- 
ing for  this  day  for  a  hundred  years, 
and  if  we  have  the  faith  to  meet  the 
needs  of  the  growth  of  the  Church,  the 
Lord  will  provide  a  way  for  us  to  do  so. 
The  Lord  sets  the  times  and  seasons  of 
this  great  growth." 

Each  of  the  brethren  who  has  spoken, 
in  his  own  way  and  in  his  own  time, 
has  added  to  our  reminder  of  the  funda- 
mental position  of  the  Church  and  its 
mission  among  men  and  has  reminded 
us  of  our  obligations  and  opportunities. 

We  have  been  reminded  of  the  prin- 
ciples that  will  solve  mankind's  prob- 
lems and  that  will  lead  us  to  everlast- 
ing life. 

Repentance — the  Principle  of  Progress 

Now,  why  all  this  effort  and  exhorta- 
tion? Because  time  moves  swiftly  and 
is  short,  and  because  people  are  of  ever- 
lasting importance,  and  because  there 
never  comes  a  time  when  we  do  not 
need  to  be  taught!  There  never  comes 
a  time  when  we  do  not  need  to  know 
that  repentance  is  the  great  principle 
of  progress  and  that  there  is  room  for  all 
of  us  to  improve. 

And  since  these  things  are  so,  what 
a  person  believes  becomes  exceedingly 
important,  because  what  he  believes 
determines  how  he  lives.  A  person  will 
prepare  much  differently  for  a  short 
journey  than  he  will  for  a  long  one, 
and  he  will  prepare  much  differently  for 
an  everlasting  journey  than  he  will  for 
one  that  ends  after  a  short  season. 

Now  since  eternity  is  forever,  and 
since  life  is  going  to  be  lived  one  way 
or  another  everlastingly,  and  since  what 
we  do  here  has  its  effect  on  our  eternal 
opportunities,  we  ought  frequently  to 


do  some  self-searching' — and  that  is 
what  we  have  been  doing  these  past 
three  days. 

One  of  life's  greatest  lessons  is  to 
learn  that  there  are  causes  and  conse- 
quences. God  has  given  us  our  free 
agency  and  will  not  violate  it,  but 
everything  we  do  has  its  effect  on  our 
everlasting  life.  As  Samuel  Johnson 
said  it:  "The  future  is  bought  with  the 
present." 

President  McKay  and  several  others 
have  mentioned  the  surgeon  general's 
report  on  tobacco  and  its  adverse  effects 
on  human  health  and  length  of  life. 
We  may  now  expect  to  see  much 
maneuvering  to  set  aside  the  effects  of 
these  findings. 

When  the  evil  of  an  unrestrained  in- 
dulgence is  under  attack,  there  will  be 
a  plea  for  moderation,  for  half  steps, 
as  if  to  say  that  a  little  of  something 
that  isn't  right  is  all  right.  It  comes 
down  in  another  sense  to  this  "almost" 
that  Brother  Lee  spoke  of.  To  quote 
some  words  from  Nephi:  "And  there 
shall  also  be  many  which  shall  say: 
.  .  .  there  is  no  harm  in  this;  .  .  ." 
(2  Nephi  28:8.)  This  is  in  error.  If 
it  isn't  good — let  it  alone.  If  it  isn't 
right- — -avoid  it,  not  "almost,"  but 
altogether. 

It  has  been  over  130  years  since  the 
answer  was  given  on  this  subject  and 
on  many  other  subjects.  Why  do  we  so 
long  wander  in  the  wilderness? 

Now  there  are  those  who  would  ask 
what  all  this  has  to  do  with  religion. 
In  the  Church  and  kingdom  of  God,  the 
practical  and  the  physical  are  inter- 
mingled with  the  spiritual.  We  are  a 
practical  Church.  Life  is  a  practical 
matter.  So  is  eternal  life.  There  are 
laws  and  commandments  and  physical 
facts  that  pertain  to  peace  and  progress 
and  health  and  happiness,  and  I  cannot 
conceive  of  a  Loving  Father's  not  being 
interested  in  everything  that  pertains  to 
his  children — what  they  do,  what  they 
eat,  what  they  think,  what  they  learn, 
how  they  live,  their  health,  their  hap- 
piness, their  character,  their  conduct. 
Conscientious  fathers  are  interested  in 
all  these  things,  or  should  be,  and  so 
is  our  Father  in  heaven.  This  is  part 
of  the  gospel.  It  is  part  of  life.  It  is 
part  of  religion — to  give  us  peace  and 


128 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

health  and  happiness  and  to  qualify 
us  for  the  highest  opportunities  of  ever- 
lasting life. 

To  Enlarge  Life 

In  all  of  life,  as  Phillips  Brooks  put 
it,  there  are  the  "fulfillers"  and  the 
"destroyers" — those  who  build  up  and 
those  who  pull  down,  and  the  measure 
of  what  is  good  for  man  is  what  it 
does  for  him.  What  isn't  good  isn't 
good.  What  is  good  is  good.  And  why 
should  we  vacillate  between  the  two? 

I  heard  President  Brown  ask  this 
question  not  long  ago.  I  can't  recall 
the  occasion,  but  I  remember  the  words. 
I  hope  he  will  pardon  me  for  using 
them  from  him.  "Do  you  want  to  re- 
pent or  rationalize?  Repenting  means 
pulling  yourself  up  to  a  set  of  standards, 
and  rationalizing  means  letting  your 
conduct  down  to  your  appetites  and  to 
a  less  worthy  inclination." 

We  ought  to  turn  our  attention  to 
those  things  that  enlarge  and  fulfil 
life  and  not  those  things  which  enslave 
and  destroy. 

"Man's  success  or  failure,  happiness 
or  misery,"  President  McKay  has  said, 
"depend  upon  what  he  seeks  and  what 
he  chooses." 

Last  June  in  St.  Louis  at  a  Rotary 
International  Convention,  Willy  Brandt, 
Mayor  of  Berlin,  came  to  speak  there  at 
our  invitation,  and  in  a  significant  and 
challenging  talk  made  this  among  other 
observations:  "Nobody,  no  system,  no 
ideology  can  prevail  over  the  future 
unless  the  central  interest  is  humanity. 
.  .  .  The  world  is  not  to  be  won  by 
disregarding  people." 

What  he  was  saying,  in  his  own  way, 
was,  in  speaking  of  communism  as  he 
was,  that  unless  it  changes  to  serve  the 
highest  possibilities  of  mankind,  it  can- 
not survive,  and  if  it  changes  to  do  this, 
it  would  not  be  communism. 

What  this  says  to  me  is  that,  here 
and  hereafter,  what  is  good  for  man  is 
the  measure  of  what  is  good  and  the 
ultimate  in  our  Father's  plans  and  pur- 
poses, and  we  must  have  the  wisdom, 
the  strength,  the  discernment  to  shape 
our  lives  toward  this  end  and  to  cboose 
between  what  is  and  isn't  good. 


Third  Day 


"Another  angel  .  .  ." 

At  our  World's  Fair  site  in  New  York 
a  few  days  ago,  with  Brothers  Lee  and 
Stapley  and  Brockbank  and  others,  we 
saw  raised  atop  the  center  tower  of 
the  temple  a  beautiful  gold-leafed 
replica  of  the  Angel  Moroni.  Earnestly 
we  asked  for  a  variance  of  the  World's 
Fair  building  code  so  that  our  temple 
spires  could  reach  to  a  height  that  would 
be  symbolic  and  significant  and  would 
appear  in  proportion — and  as  we  saw 
the  angel  put  in  place  and  contem- 
plated our  exhibit  with  all  its  planning 
(the  product  of  many  minds  and  many 
men,  to  whom  should  be  paid  personal 
tribute,  and  they  will  receive  their 
everlasting  credit  where  it  counts,  even 
if  they  worked  somewhat  behind  the 
scenes),  we  could  not  help  recall  these 
words  from  the  book  of  Revelation,  al- 
ready more  than  once  quoted  at  this 
conference: 

"And  I  saw  another  angel  fly  in  the 
midst  of  heaven,  having  the  everlast- 
ing gospel  to  preach  unto  them  that 
dwell  on  the  earth,  and  to  every  nation, 
and  kindred,  and  tongue,  and  people, 

"Saying  with  a  loud  voice,  Fear  God, 
and  give  glory  to  him;  for  the  hour  of 
his  judgment  is  come:  and  worship  him 
that  made  heaven,  and  earth,  and  the 
sea,  and  the  fountains  of  waters." 
(Rev.  14:6-7.) 

To  the  literal  fulfilment  of  this  event, 
we  bear  witness,  and  we  have  an  obli- 
gation to  live  according  to  the  witness 
that  we  bear. 

Joseph  Smith  Told  the  Truth 

Some  days  ago  I  was  searching  in  an 
autobiography  of  Dr.  John  A.  Widtsoe, 
one  of  my  beloved  mission  presidents 
many  years  ago — scientist,  scholar,  edu- 
cator, and  Apostle.  And  in  this  book 
called  In  a  Sunlit  Land,  published 
shortly  before  his  death,  he  reviews  his 
beginnings  in  a  far  country,  on  a 
rocky  island  off  the  North  Sea  coast  of 
Norway;  his  birth  into  another  church; 
the  coming  of  the  missionaries;  the 
conversion  of  his  mother  and  later  his 
own  conversion;  his  going  to  Harvard 
as  an  immigrant  lad;  his  going  later  to 
Germany  to  acquire  his  doctor's  degree 
in  chemistry;  his  study  of  the  sciences 
and  of  the  religions  and  philosophies  of 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


129 


men;  his  serving  as  president  of  two 
universities.  And  then  on  about  the 
last  page  of  that  book  he  says: 

"During  this  long  life,  I  have  had 
occasion  to  test,  time  and  time  again, 
the  verity  of  the  foundations  of  The 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  The  answer  has  always  been 
the  same:  Joseph  Smith  told  the  truth." 
(Salt  Lake  City:  Deseret  News  Press, 
1952,  pp.  243-244.) 

Joseph  Smith  did  tell  the  truth.  This 
is  the  witness  that  I  would  leave  with 
you,  my  beloved  brothers  and  sisters, 
my  beloved  family  and  friends,  along 
with  the  witness  that  Jesus  is  the  Christ 
and  that  God  our  Father  did  make  us 
in  his  own  image  and  that  it  is  his 
purpose  to  bring  to  pass  our  immortality 
and  eternal  life,  and  this  I  do  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  addressed  us. 
The  Choir  and  congregation  will  now 
sing  "We  Thank  Thee  O  God  For  A 
Prophet,"  conducted  by  Kurt  Wein- 
zinger.  After  the  singing  Elder  Thomas 
S.  Monson  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve 
will  speak  to  us. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Cho- 
rale and  the  congregation  joined  in 
singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

Elder  Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our 
next  speaker.  He  will  be  followed  by 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


"Trust  in  the  Lord  with  all  thine 
heart;  and  lean  not  unto  thine  own 
understanding. 

"In  all  thy  ways  acknowledge  him, 
and  he  shall  direct  thy  paths."  (Prov. 
3:5-6.)  So  spoke  the  wise  Solomon, 
the  son  of  David,  king  of  Israel. 

On  this  the  American  continent, 
Jacob,  the  brother  of  Nephi,  declared: 
".  .  .  Look  unto  God  with  firmness  of 
mind,  and  pray  unto  him  with  exceed- 
ing faith.  .  .  ."  (Jacob  3:1.) 

In  this  dispensation  in  a  revelation 
given  to  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith, 
the  Lord  said,  "Look  unto  me  in 
every  thought;  doubt  not,  fear  not." 
(D&C  6:36.) 

"Have  You  Tried  Prayer?" 

This  divinely  inspired  counsel  comes 
to  us  today  as  crystal  clear  water  to  a 
parched  earth. 

We  live  in  troubled  times.  Doctors' 
offices  throughout  the  land  are  filled 
with  individuals  who  are  beset  with 
emotional  problems  as  well  as  physical 
distress.  Our  divorce  courts  are  doing 
a  land  office  business  because  people 


have  unsolved  problems.  Personnel 
workers  and  grievance  committees  in 
modern  industry  work  long  hours  in  an 
effort  to  assist  people  with  their  prob- 
lems. One  personnel  officer  assigned 
to  handle  petty  grievances  concluded 
an  unusually  hectic  day  by  placing 
facetiously  a  little  sign  on  his  desk  for 
those  with  unsolved  problems  to  read. 
It  read,  "Have  you  tried  prayer?" 

What  that  personnel  director  did  not 
know  when  he  placed  such  a  sign  upon 
his  desk  was  that  he  was  providing 
counsel  and  direction  which  would 
solve  more  problems,  alleviate  more  suf- 
fering, prevent  more  transgression,  and 
bring  about  greater  peace  and  content- 
ment in  the  human  soul  than  could  be 
obtained  in  any  other  way. 

A  prominent  American  judge  was 
asked  what  we  as  citizens  of  the  coun- 
tries of  the  world  could  do  to  reduce 
crime  and  disobedience  to  law  and  to 
bring  peace  and  contentment  into  our 
lives  and  into  our  nations.  He  care- 
fully replied,  "I  would  suggest  a  return 
to  the  old-fashioned  practice  of  fam- 
ily prayer." 


130 

Monday,  April  6 

Family  Prayer 

As  a  people,  aren't  we  grateful  that 
family  prayer  is  not  an  out-of-date 
practice  with  us?  There  is  no  more 
beautiful  sight  in  all  this  world  than  to 
see  a  family  praying  together.  The  oft- 
repeated  phrase  is  ever  true,  "The  family 
that  prays  together  stays  together." 

The  Lord  directed  that  we  have  fam- 
ily prayer  when  he  said,  "Pray  in  your 
families  unto  the  Father,  always  in  my 
name,  that  your  wives  and  your  chil- 
dren may  be  blessed."  (3  Nephi  18:21.) 

Will  you  join  me  as  we  look  in  on  a 
typical  Latter-day  Saint  family  offering 
prayers  unto  the  Lord?  Father,  mother, 
and  each  of  the  children  kneel,  bow 
their  heads  and  close  their  eyes.  A 
sweet  spirit  of  love,  unity,  peace  fills 
the  home.  As  father  hears  his  tiny  son 
pray  unto  God  that  his  dad  will  do  the 
right  things  and  be  obedient  to  the 
Lord's  bidding,  do  you  think  that  such 
a  father  would  find  it  difficult  to  honor 
the  prayer  of  this  precious  son?  As  a 
teenaged  daughter  hears  her  sweet 
mother  plead  unto  the  Lord  that  her 
daughter  will  be  inspired  in  the  selec- 
tion of  her  companions,  that  she  will 
prepare  herself  for  temple  marriage, 
don't  you  believe  that  such  a  daughter 
will  seek  to  honor  this  humble,  plead- 
ing petition  of  her  mother  whom  she  so 
dearly  loves?  When  father,  mother,  and 
each  of  the  children  earnestly  pray  that 
these  fine  sons  in  the  family  will  live 
worthy  that  they  may,  in  due  time, 
receive  a  call  to  serve  as  ambassadors 
of  the  Lord  in  the  mission  fields  of  the 
Church,  don't  we  begin  to  see  how  such 
sons  grow  to  young  manhood  with 
an  overwhelming  desire  to  serve  as 
missionaries? 

I  am  sure  that  family  prayer  prompted 
a  letter  written  by  a  young  Latter- 
day  Saint  girl  attending  a  Denver, 
Colorado,  high  school.  The  students 
had  been  asked  to  prepare  a  letter  to 
be  written  to  a  great  man  of  their 
choice.  Many  addressed  their  letters 
to  Mickey  Mantle,  the  New  York  Yankee 
star  of  baseball;  John  Glenn,  America's 
first  astronaut;  the  President  of  the 
United  States;  and  other  celebrities. 
This  young  lady,  however,  addressed  her 
letter  to  her  father,  and  in  the  letter 
she  stated,  "I  have  decided  to  write 
this  letter  to  you,  Dad,  because  you  are 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

the  greatest  man  that  I  have  ever 
known.  The  overwhelming  desire  of 
my  heart  is  that  I  might  so  live  that  I 
might  have  the  privilege  of  being  beside 
you  and  mother  and  other  members  of 
the  family  in  the  celestial  kingdom." 
That  father  has  never  received  a  more 
cherished  letter. 

Prayer  is  the  Language  of  Faith 

As  we  offer  unto  the  Lord  our  family 
and  our  personal  prayers,  let  us  do  so 
with  faith  and  trust  in  him.  Let  us 
remember  the  injunction  of  Paul  to  the 
Hebrews:  ".  .  .  for  he  that  cometh  to 
God  must  believe  that  he  is,  and  that 
he  is  a  rewarder  of  them  that  diligently 
seek  him."  (Heb.  11:6.)  If  any  of  us  has 
been  slow  to  hearken  to  the  counsel  to 
pray  always,  there  is  no  finer  hour  to 
begin  than  now.  William  Cowper  de- 
clared, "Satan  trembles  when  he  sees 
the  weakest  Saint  upon  his  knees." 
Those  who  feel  that  prayer  might 
denote  a  physical  weakness,  remember 
that  a  man  never  stands  taller  than 
when  he  is  upon  his  knees. 

We  cannot  know  what  faith  is  if  we 
have  never  had  it,  and  we  cannot  ob- 
tain it  as  long  as  we  deny  it.  Faith  and 
doubt  cannot  exist  in  the  same  mind  at 
the  same  time,  for  one  will  dispel 
the  other. 

If  our  desire  is  to  discard  all  doubt 
and  to  substitute  therefor  an  abiding 
faith,  we  have  but  to  accept  the  invita- 
tion extended  to  you  and  to  me  in  the 
Epistle  of  James. 

"If  any  of  you  lack  wisdom,  let  him 
ask  of  God,  that  giveth  to  all  men 
liberally,  and  upbraideth  not;  and  it 
shall  be  given  him. 

"But  let  him  ask  in  faith,  nothing 
wavering.  For  he  that  wavereth  is  like 
a  wave  of  the  sea  driven  with  the  wind 
and  tossed."  (Jas.  1:5-6.) 

This  promise  motivated  the  young 
man  Joseph  Smith  to  seek  God  in 
prayer.  He  declared  to  us  in  his  own 
words, 

"At  length  I  came  to  the  conclusion 
that  I  .  .  .  must  do  as  James  directs, 
that  is,  ask  of  God.  I  at  length  came 
to  the  determination  to  'ask  of  God,' 
concluding  that  if  he  gave  wisdom  to 
them  that  lacked  wisdom,  and  would 
give  liberally,  and  not  upbraid,  I 
might  venture. 


ELDER  THOMAS  S.  MONSON 


131 


"So,  in  accordance  with  this,  my  de- 
termination to  ask  of  God,  I  retired  to 
the  woods  to  make  the  attempt.  ...  It 
was  the  first  time  in  my  life  that  I  had 
made  such  an  attempt,  for  amidst  all  my 
anxieties  I  had  never  as  yet  made  the 
attempt  to  pray  vocally."  (Joseph  Smith 
2:13-14.) 

Now  if  we  have  hesitated  in  supplicat- 
ing God  our  Eternal  Father  simply 
because  we  have  not  as  yet  made  the 
attempt  to  pray,  we  certainly  can  take 
courage  from  the  example  of  the  Prophet 
Joseph.  But  let  us  remember,  as  did 
the  Prophet,  our  prayer  must  be  offered 
in  faith,  nothing  wavering. 

It  was  by  faith,  nothing  wavering, 
that  the  Brother  of  Jared  saw  the  finger 
of  God  touch  the  stones  in  response  to 
his  plea. 

It  was  by  faith,  nothing  wavering, 
that  Noah  erected  an  ark  in  obedience 
to  the  command  from  God. 

It  was  by  faith,  nothing  wavering, 
that  Abraham  was  willing  to  offer  up 
his  beloved  Isaac  as  a  sacrifice. 

It  was  by  faith,  nothing  wavering, 
that  Moses  led  the  children  of  Israel  out 
of  Egypt  and  through  the  Red  Sea. 

It  was  by  faith,  nothing  wavering, 
that  Joshua  and  his  followers  brought 
the  walls  of  Jericho  tumbling  down. 

It  was  by  faith,  nothing  wavering, 
that  Joseph  saw  God  our  Eternal  Father 
and  Jesus  Christ  his  Son. 

Now  the  skeptic  may  say  that  these 
mighty  accounts  of  faith  occurred  long 
ago,  that  times  have  changed. 

Source  of  Spiritual  Power 

Have  times  really  changed?  Don't 
we  today,  as  always,  love  our  children 
and  want  them  to  live  righteously? 
Don't  we  today,  as  always,  need  God's 
divine,  protecting  care?  Don't  we  today, 
as  always,  continue  to  be  at  his  mercy 
and  in  his  debt  for  the  very  life  he 
has  given  us? 

Times  have  not  really  changed. 
Prayer  continues  to  provide  power — 
spiritual  power.  Prayer  continues  to 
provide  peace — spiritual  peace. 

Wherever  we  may  be,  our  Heavenly 
Father  can  hear  and  answer  the  prayer 
offered  in  faith.  This  is  especially  true 
in  the  mission  fields  throughout  the 
world.  While  presiding  under  the  direc- 
tion  of   President   McKay    over  the 


Canadian  Mission,  Sister  Monson  and 
I  had  the  opportunity  of  serving  with 
the  finest  young  men  and  women  in  all 
this  world — your  missionary  sons  and 
daughters.  Their  very  lives  exempli- 
fied faith  and  prayer. 

There  sat  in  my  office  one  day  a 
newly  arrived  missionary.  He  was 
bright,  strong,  filled  with  enthusiasm 
and  a  desire  to  serve,  happy  and  grate- 
ful to  be  a  missionary.  As  I  spoke  with 
him  I  said,  "Elder,  I  imagine  that  your 
father  and  mother  wholeheartedly  sup- 
port you  in  your  mission  call."  He 
lowered  his  head  and  replied,  "Well, 
not  quite.  You  see,  President,  my  father 
is  not  a  member  of  the  Church.  He 
doesn't  believe  as  we  believe,  so  he  can- 
not fully  appreciate  the  importance  of 
my  assignment."  Without  hesitating 
and  prompted  by  a  source  not  my  own, 
I  said  to  him,  "Elder,  if  you  will  hon- 
estly and  diligently  serve  God  in 
proclaiming  his  message,  your  father 
will  join  the  Church  before  your  mis- 
sion is  concluded."  He  clasped  my 
hand  in  a  viselike  grip,  the  tears  welled 
up  in  his  eyes  and  began  to  roll  forth 
down  his  cheeks,  and  he  declared,  "To 
see  my  father  accept  the  truth  would 
be  the  greatest  blessing  that  could 
come  into  my  life." 

Faith  Generates  Action 

This  young  man  did  not  sit  idly  by, 
hoping  and  wishing  that  the  promise 
would  be  fulfilled,  but  rather  he  fol- 
lowed the  example  of  Abraham  Lincoln, 
of  whom  it  has  been  said,  "When  he 
prayed,  he  prayed  as  though  everything 
depended  upon  God,  and  then  he 
worked  as  though  everything  depended 
upon  him."  Such  was  the  missionary 
service  of  this  young  man. 

At  every  missionary  conference  I 
would  seek  him  out  before  the  meet- 
ings would  ever  commence  and  ask, 
"Elder,  how's  dad  progressing?" 

His  reply  would  invariably  be,  "No 
progress,  President,  but  I  know  the  Lord 
will  fulfil  the  promise  given  to  me 
through  you  as  my  mission  president." 
The  days  turned  to  weeks  and  the 
weeks  to  months  and  finally,  just  two 
weeks  before  we  ourselves  left  the  mis- 
sion field  to  return  home,  I  received  a 
letter  from  the  father  of  this  mission- 


132 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

ary.  I  would  like  to  share  it  with 
you  today. 

"Dear  Brother  Monson: 

"I  wish  to  thank  you  so  much  for 
taking  such  good  care  of  my  son  who 
recently  completed  a  mission  in  Canada. 

"He  has  been  an  inspiration  to  us. 

"My  son  was  promised  when  he  left 
on  his  mission  that  I  would  become  a 
member  of  the  Church  before  his  return. 
This  promise  was,  I  believe,  made  to 
him  by  you,  unknown  to  me. 

"I  am  happy  to  report  that  I  was 
baptized  into  the  Church  one  week  be- 
fore he  completed  his  mission  and  am  at 
present  time  Athletic  Director  of  the 
MIA  and  have  a  teaching  assignment. 

"My  son  is  now  attending  BYU  and 
his  younger  brother  was  also  recently 
baptized  and  confirmed  a  member  of 
the  Church. 

"May  I  again  thank  you  for  all  the 
kindness  and  love  bestowed  upon  my 
son  by  his  brothers  in  the  mission  field 
during  the  past  two  years. 

"Yours  very  truly, 
"A  grateful  father." 


Third  Day 

The  humble  prayer  of  faith  had  once 
again  been  answered. 

There  is  a  golden  thread  that  runs 
through  every  account  of  faith  from  the 
beginning  of  the  world  to  the  present 
time.  Abraham,  Noah,  the  Brother  of 
Tared,  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  countless 
others  were  obedient  to  the  will  of  God. 
They  had  ears  that  could  bear,  eyes 
that  could  see,  and  hearts  that  could 
know  and  feel. 

They  never  doubted.   They  trusted. 

Through  personal  prayer,  through 
family  prayer,  by  trusting  in  God  with 
faith,  nothing  wavering,  we  can  call 
down  to  our  rescue  his  mighty  power. 
His  call  to  us  is  as  it  has  ever  been, 
"Come  unto  me.  .  .  ."  (Matt.  11:28. 
Italics  added.) 

In  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

We  have  just  heard  from  Elder 
Thomas  S.  Monson  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve.  We  shall  now  hear  from 
Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  same 
Council. 


ELDER  DELBI 

Of  the  Council  of 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends: 
This  has  been  a  glorious  conference. 
The  messages  have  been  fitting  for  this 
particular  day  and  time  in  which  we 
live.  I  have  been  uplifted,  benefited 
spiritually,  and  encouraged  to  go  for- 
ward in  the  progress  of  the  great  work 
of  our  Lord. 

When  Jesus  uttered  the  words:  "And 
this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might  know 
thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ,  whom  thou  hast  sent"  (John 
17:3),  he  expressed  a  truth  at  once 
profound  and  eternal. 

But  truth  must  be  sought  and  under- 
stood and  lived — otherwise,  it  is  useless. 
It  does  not  impose  itself;  it  waits  to  be 
discovered.  It  waits  to  be  acted  upon 
by  intelligence,  wise  judgment;  but 
when  discovered  and  utilized,  it  places 
one  on  the  road  to  God — to  enjoy  a 
life  like  unto  that  of  God,  which  is  eter- 
nal life.    When  truth  is  known  in  its 


iT  L.  STAPLEY 

w  Twelve  Apostles 

entirety,  it  makes  one  more  Godlike, 
for  God  knows  and  understands  all 
things.  This  blessed  condition  is 
what  God  wants  for  all  his  children,  for 
he  has  declared:  "For  behold,  this  is  my 
work  and  my  glory — to  bring  to  pass 
the  immortality  and  eternal  life  of 
man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Truth  leads  to  Eternal  Life 

Now,  where  shall  we  go  to  discover 
the  truth,  that,  when  utilized,  will 
bring  eternal  life?  Shall  we  go  to  the 
world's  halls  of  learning,  the  labora- 
tories of  the  sciences,  the  studios  of  art, 
the  dens  of  metaphysical  speculation? 
Was  it  from  such  institutions  that  Jesus 
derived  his  wisdom  respecting  mortal 
life,  his  understanding  of  eternal  life? 
No,  indeed!  Although  he  did  not 
condemn  these  interests  of  men,  he 
never  used  them.  He  never  even  re- 
ferred to  them  as  essential  to  life  ever- 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


133 


lasting.  He  did  refer  often  to  the 
kingdom  of  God  as  the  repository  of 
that  truth  which  makes  men  free,  that 
provides  one  with  means  of  well-being, 
perhaps  important,  yet  incidental  to  the 
greater  matters  of  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Jesus  declared:  "And  ye  shall  know 
the  truth,  and  the  truth  shall  make 
you  free."  (John  8:32.)  Did  he  mean 
philosophy  or  the  scientific  theories 
propounded  by  man?  Surely  he  was 
not  opposed  to  truth  no  matter  from 
what  source  derived,  but  his  source  of 
truth  was  divine — and  it  belongs  to  the 
kingdom  of  God.  This,  no  doubt  is 
the  reason  for  his  great  admonition, 
".  .  .  seek  ye  first  the  kingdom  of  God, 
and  his  righteousness;  and  all  these 
things  [material  goods]  shall  be  added 
unto  you."  (Matt.  6:33.) 

The  Kingdom  of  God 

The  Master  places  great  significance 
upon  the  "kingdom  of  God."  And 
properly  so.  Was  he  not  responsible 
for  establishing  it,  with  its  divine  char- 
acter, here  among  men — for  their  good, 
for  their  glory  and  their  final  exaltation? 
He  surely  knew  how  ineffectual  the 
institutions  of  men  are  when  compared 
with  that  divine  institution,  the  king- 
dom of  God,  as  the  means  of  ultimately 
perfecting  mankind. 

Reading  the  four  Gospels,  one  is  led 
to  marvel  at  Jesus'  numerous  references 
to  the  kingdom  of  God.  It  was  ever  in 
his  mind.  He  was  constantly  anxious 
that  God's  children  should  know  of  it 
and  its  significance.  He  is  just  as 
anxious  to  have  his  disciples  and  all 
others  everywhere  know  and  under- 
stand it  in  this  last  Dispensation  of  the 
Fulness  of  Times. 

Truly,  then,  the  kingdom  of  God  is 
most  important  for  all  mankind  to  seek 
after.  "But  what  is  that  kingdom?" 
one  may  ask. 

In  the  Holy  Scriptures,  both  ancient 
and  modern,  the  terms  "kingdom  of 
God,"  "kingdom  of  Christ,"  "kingdom 
of  heaven,"  are  frequently  used  inter- 
changeably. Yet,  specifically,  there  are 
distinctions  for  each.  It  is  well  to  be 
acquainted  with  these  distinctions. 

From  the  writings  of  Elder  James  E. 
Talmage  we  read: 


"In  this  prospective  ministration 
among  His  gathered  saints,  Jesus  Christ 
is  to  be  at  once  their  God  and  their 
King.  His  government  is  to  be  that  of 
a  perfect  theocracy;  the  laws  of  right- 
eousness will  be  the  code,  and  control 
will  be  administered  under  one  author- 
ity, undisputed  because  indisputable." 
(Articles  of  Faith,  p.  363,  see  pp. 
365-368.) 

Commenting  upon  verse  55  of  section 
10  of  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants: 
"Therefore,  whosoever  belongeth  to  my 
church  need  not  fear,  for  such  shall 
inherit  the  kingdom  of  heaven,"  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  had  this  to  say: 

"The  Kingdom  of  Heaven  is  the 
Church.  Sometimes  the  'Kingdom  of 
Heaven'  means  the  entire  domain  in 
which  the  government  of  God  has  been 
established — the  kingdom  in  which 
God  is  acknowledged  to  be  the  Supreme 
Ruler.  This  kingdom  is,  and  has  always 
been,  in  'heaven.'  It  is  now  on  Earth  in 
the  Church  and  will  be  extended  over 
the  whole  Earth  during  the  Millennium, 
and  during  its  glorified  state.  But  in 
this  passage  the  Church  especially  seems 
to  be  meant.  The  Prophet  Joseph  uses 
the  term  in  that  sense,  when  he  says, 
'The  Kingdom  of  heaven  is  like  unto  a 
mustard  seed.  Behold,  then,  is  not  this 
the  Kingdom  of  heaven  that  is  raising 
its  head  in  the  last  days  in  the  majesty 
of  its  God,  even  the  Church  of  the 
Latter-day  Saints?'"  (D&C  Commen- 
tary, p.  57.) 

President  Brigham  Young,  discussing 
verse  11  of  section  29  of  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants:  "For  I  will  reveal  my- 
self from  heaven  with  power  and  great 
glory,  with  all  the  hosts  thereof,  and 
dwell  in  righteousness  with  men  on 
earth  a  thousand  years,  and  the  wicked 
shall  not  stand,"  says: 

"It  may  be  asked  what  I  mean  by  the 
Kingdom  of  God.  The  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  has  been  established  now  for 
many  years,  and  the  Kingdom  of  God 
has  got  to  be  established,  even  that 
Kingdom  which  will  circumscribe  all 
the  kingdoms  of  this  world.  It  will  yet 
give  laws  to  every  nation  that  exists 
upon  the  Earth.  This  is  the  kingdom 
that  Daniel,  the  Prophet,  saw  should 
be  set  up  in  the  last  days."  (Ibid., 
p.  147.) 


134 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Monday,  April  6 

The  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
defining  the  kingdom  of  God,  says: 

"What  I  mean  by  the  kingdom  of 
God  is  the  organization  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints, 
over  which  the  Son  of  God  presides, 
and  not  man.  That  is  what  I  mean.  I 
mean  the  kingdom  of  which  Christ  is 
the  King  and  not  man."  (Gospel  Doc- 
trine, p.  72.) 

These  great  authorities  make  clear 
and  dear  to  us  the  nature  of  the  king- 
dom of  God. 

Now,  what  should  God's  children  on 
earth  expect  to  find  in  this  kingdom  to 
recognize  it  as  his  kingdom  with  proper 
authority  to  act? 

Since  Jesus  has  been  chosen  king  to 
rule  and  reign  in  the  kingdom  of  God, 
we  may  do  well  to  note  the  character 
of  that  kingdom  established  by  him 
while  dwelling  here  among  men.  Hav- 
ing prepared  the  way  by  teaching  prin- 
ciples necessary  to  man's  advancement 
toward  God-likeness,  accompanied  by  a 
few  simple,  yet  necessary,  ordinances, 
he  effected  an  organization  devoid  of 
pomp  and  pageantry,  of  appeal  to  pas- 
sions, of  images,  idols,  or  prelates  moti- 
vated by  selfish  interests  or  desire  for 
the  plaudits  of  men.  He  chose  twelve 
disciples,  called  Apostles,  with  himself 
at  the  head.  In  due  time  other  officials 
were  chosen,  set  apart,  and  given  au- 
thority to  act  in  the  name  of  the  Savior, 
in  his  kingdom.  (See  Eph.  4:11-12.) 

During  his  ministry,  the  Savior  indi- 
cated that  Peter  was  to  give  leadership 
in  the  kingdom  after  he  no  longer 
would  be  personally  in  their  midst. 
Peter  was  endowed  by  Christ  with 
power  and  authority  to  act  for  and  in 
his  name,  which  he  did  courageously 
and  effectively.  This  divine  organiza- 
tion endured  until  the  so-called  "great 
apostasy"  when  the  Lord  found  it 
necessary  to  remove  his  Church  from 
the  earth. 

We  may  expect  to  find  in  the  king- 
dom of  God  today  the  same  type  of  or- 
ganization that  Christ  established  when 
he  was  here  among  men  with  like 
officers  possessing  the  same  divine  au- 
thority that  those  original  officers  re- 
ceived. With  such  an  organization  the 
kingdom  of  God  was  surely  destined 
to  prosper.     The  organization  alone, 


rhird  Day 

however,  was  the  outward  manifesta- 
tion of  the  kingdom.  In  the  kingdom 
of  God  there  must  always  be  found 
the  principles,  doctrines,  and  ordinances 
which  belong  to  the  kingdom  estab- 
lished by  the  Savior  and  which  must 
be  fully  accepted  for  citizenship  there- 
in. Without  attempting  to  list  all  the 
principles,  doctrines,  and  ordinances, 
here  are  a  few  by  way  of  illustration: 

Principles,  Doctrines  and  Ordinances  of 
the  Kingdom 

1.  All  people  should  have  an  ade- 
quate understanding  of  God  and  his 
Son  Jesus  Christ,  who  stands  at  the 
head  of  his  kingdom  on  earth. 

2.  They  must  have  faith  in  the  actu- 
ality of  both  God  and  Christ,  as  distinct 
and  separate  individuals  but  united 
in  purpose. 

3.  They  must  recognize  their  own 
status,  that,  having  the  right  of  choice 
in  this  finite  life,  they  will  err  in 
judgment.  To  rectify  such  erring,  it  is 
important  everyone  practise  the  princi- 
ple of  repentance — that  profound  prin- 
ciple of  progression  and  the  one  which, 
when  fully  achieved,  guarantees  God's 
forgiveness. 

4.  Willingness  to  submit  to  the  di- 
vine ordinance  of  baptism. 

5.  Seek  the  guidance  and  direction  of 
the  Holy  Ghost  in  order  that  harmony 
with  God's  will  and  purposes  might 
be  established  and  preserved  in  the  per- 
sonal life  of  every  soul. 

6.  An  ardent  desire  to  love  God  and 
his  Beloved  Son  with  all  one's  heart 
and  soul  and  to  love  one's  neighbor  as 
one's  self. 

7.  In  divine  authority  bestowed  by 
the  kingdom  of  God  one  must  find 
divinely  authorized  agents,  otherwise, 
the  kingdom  is  one  of  men,  not  of  God. 

Stemming  from  these  essentials  are 
other  principles  and  ordinances,  simple 
in  application,  yet  divine,  of  unchange- 
able character,  and  ever-enduring.  Un- 
biased attention  to  and  consideration  of 
them  will  disclose  convincing  evidence 
of  their  divine  origin — their  belonging 
to  the  kingdom  of  God. 

What,  now,  is  the  function  and 
power  of  that  kingdom? 

The  kingdom  of  God  may  not  be  re- 
garded as  an  end  in  itself.    It  is  rather 


ELDER  DELBl 

a  means  in  the  hands  of  God  and  Christ 
to  help  bring  about  "the  immortality 
and  eternal  life  of  man."  (Moses  1:39.) 

Since  we  testify  that  The  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is  the 
kingdom  of  God  on  earth,  we  under- 
stand that  the  function  of  one  is  also 
the  function  of  the  other,  and  that 
which  is  the  power  of  one  is  also  the 
power  of  the  other. 

President  David  O.  McKay,  discuss- 
ing the  function  of  the  Church  or  king- 
dom of  God,  said: 

The  Function  of  the  Kingdom 

"The  mission  of  the  Church  is  to 
establish  the  kingdom  of  God  upon  the 
earth,  which,  in  the  words  of  Thomas 
Nixon  Carver,  'is  not  a  mythical  but  a 
real  kingdom.  It  is  a  body  of  people 
dominated  by  ideals  of  productivity, 
which  is  mutual  service.  We  do  not 
strive  for  the  things  which  satisfy  but 
for  the  moment  and  then  leave  a  bad 
taste.  We  strive  for  the  things  which 
build  us  up  and  enable  us  and  our 
children  to  be  strong,  to  flourish,  and 
to  conquer.  We  strive  to  make  our- 
selves worthy  to  receive  the  world  by 
fitting  ourselves  to  use  the  world  more 
productively  than  others.  We  believe 
that  obedience  to  God  means  obedi- 
ence to  the  laws  of  nature,  which  are 
but  the  manifestations  of  his  will;  and 
we  try  by  painstaking  study  to  acquire 
the  most  complete  and  exact  knowledge 
of  that  will,  in  order  that  we  may  con- 
form ourselves  to  it."  (Gospel  Ideals, 
p.  102.) 

And  again,  President  McKay  has  said: 

"There  are  those  in  the  world  who 
say  that  jealousy,  enmity,  selfishness  in 
men's  hearts  will  always  preclude  the 
establishing  of  the  ideal  society  known 
as  the  kingdom  of  God.  No  matter  what 
doubters  and  scoffers  say,  the  mission 
of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  is  to 
eliminate  sin  and  wickedness  from  the 
hearts  of  men,  and  so  to  transform  so- 
ciety that  peace  and  good  will  will 
prevail  on  this  earth."  (Ibid.,  p.  103.) 

President  Brigham  Young,  speaking 
upon  the  same  subject,  says: 

"As  this  Kingdom  of  God  grows, 
spreads,  increases,  and  prospers  in  its 
course,  it  will  cleanse,  thoroughly 
purge,  and  purify  the  world  from 
wickedness.  .  .  . 


T  L.  STAPLEY  135 

"When  the  Kingdom  of  God  is  fully 
set  up  and  established  on  the  face  of 
the  earth,  and  takes  the  preeminence 
over  all  other  nations  and  kingdoms,  it 
will  protect  the  people  in  the  enjoyment 
of  all  their  rights,  no  matter  what  they 
believe,  what  they  profess,  or  what  they 
worship.  If  they  wish  to  worship  a  god 
of  their  own  workmanship,  instead  of 
the  true  and  living  God,  all  right,  if 
they  will  mind  their  own  business  and 
let  other  people  alone."  (Discourse  of 
Brigham  Young,  p.  440.) 

The  late  President  Joseph  F.  Smith, 
following  in  the  same  channel  of 
thought,  remarked  as  follows: 

Our  Mission  is  to  Save 

"Our  mission  is  to  save,  to  preserve 
from  evil,  to  exalt  mankind,  to  bring 
light  and  truth  into  the  world,  to  pre- 
vail upon  the  people  of  the  earth  to 
walk  righteously  before  God,  and  to 
honor  Him  in  their  lives  and  with  the 
firstfruits  of  all  their  substance  and 
increase  that  their  barns  may  be  filled 
with  plenty,  and,  figuratively  speaking, 
that  'their  presses  may  burst  out  with 
new  wine.'"  (CR,  April  1907,  p.  118.) 

Kingdom  of  Peace 

On  another  occasion,  with  the  king- 
dom of  God  in  mind,  he  said: 

"We  carry  to  the  world  the  olive 
branch  of  peace.  We  present  to  the 
world  the  love  of  God,  the  word  of 
the  Lord,  the  Truth,  as  it  has  been 
revealed  in  the  latter  day  for  the  re- 
demption of  the  dead  and  for  the 
salvation  of  the  living.  We  bear  no 
malice  or  evil  towards  the  children 
of  men.  The  spirit  of  forgiveness  per- 
vades the  hearts  of  the  Saints  of  God, 
and  they  do  not  cherish  a  desire  or 
feeling  of  revenge  toward  their  enemies 
or  those  who  hurt  or  molest  them  or 
seek  to  make  them  afraid;  but,  on  the 
contrary,  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  has 
possession  of  their  spirits,  of  their  souls 
and  of  their  thoughts;  they  forgive  all 
men,  and  they  carry  no  malice  in  their 
hearts  toward  any,  no  matter  what  they 
have  done  "  (CR,  April  1902,  p.  2.) 

Examples  of  such  messages  could  be 
multiplied  many  times,  illustrating  the 
function  of  God's  kingdom  in  the  earth. 


136 

Monday,  April  6 

To  Stand  Against  the  Adversary 

Making  authoritative  and  mighty,  be- 
yond the  power  of  evil  to  hinder  or 
frustrate,  is  the  divine  authority  of  the 
priesthood  inherent  in  the  kingdom. 
It  is  so  organized  as  to  induce  unity 
of  purpose  and  when  righteously  used 
by  those  who  possess  it,  guarantees  the 
safety  of  the  kingdom  against  all  in- 
cursions of  the  adversary. 

The  present-day  world  is  threatened 
by  agencies  of  destruction.  Darkness  of 
mind,  hearts  shaken  by  impulses  of 
selfishness,  the  prevalence  of  error,  evil, 
ignorance  of  that  which  is  the  right 
and  the  wrong,  corruption,  sin,  and 
wickedness,  all  these  and  more,  now, 
as  in  the  historic  past,  constitute  the 
means  by  which  human  society  could 
destroy  itself.  That  such  may  not  come 
to  pass  is  the  ardent  hope  of  all  who 
seek  righteousness  as  their  way  of  life. 
Their  seeking  will  not  be  in  vain  if 
they  turn  to  ".  .  .  the  kingdom  of  God 
and  his  righteousness  .  .  ."  (Matt.  6:33.) 
for  a  realization  of  their  aspirations.  All 
that  the  kingdom  represents  is  opposed 
to  the  destructive  forces  which  I  have 
enumerated.  The  righteous,  we  are 
told,  will  inherit  the  earth.  That  con- 
dition will  only  be  attained  when  the 
kingdom  of  God,  through  its  saving 
power  will  triumph  over  evil  and 
wickedness. 

Truly  everyone  desiring  salvation  and 
exaltation  are  obligated  sincerely  to 
seek  the  kingdom  of  God  and  his 
righteousness. 

Christ  in  his  time  of  mortal  existence 
did  not  select  the  churches  of  the 
Pharisees  or  Sadducees  nor  the  San- 
hedrin  or  any  other  contemporary 
church  or  organization  as  a  basis  or 
framework  to  set  up  the  kingdom  of 
God  on  earth.  He  referred  to  such 
religious  bodies  with  scathing  de- 
nunciation for  having  so  far  departed 
the  right  way  that  only  a  dead  form 
of  worship  remained.  (See  Matt.  23.) 

Christ's  church  is  distinctive  and 
apart  from  man-made  religious  institu- 
tions. In  all  ages  his  work  has  been 
established  by  revelation  and  the  open- 
ing of  the  heavens  from  which  source 
angels  descended  to  instruct  the  proph- 
ets and  to  confer  the  keys  and  authority 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Dan 

of  priesthood  unto  leaders  chosen 
of  God. 

The  restoration  of  his  Church  and 
gospel  in  this  last  dispensation  is  no 
exception  as  thousands  of  faithful  men 
and  women  can  and  do  testify. 

The  Gospel  "for  every  nation, 
kindred,  .  .  ." 

Many  thousands  have  testified  that 
the  kingdom  of  God,  with  its  inclusion 
of  the  laws  and  principles  provided  for 
guidance  of  life  towards  salvation  and 
exaltation,  is  that  pearl  of  great  price 
of  which  Jesus  spoke  in  his  story  of  the 
man  who  sold  all  his  possessions  to 
purchase  it. 

This  thought  suggests  the  value  of 
the  kingdom  to  every  living  soul.  In  it 
is  nothing  to  sadden,  to  lead  astray,  or 
to  degrade  the  children  of  men.  Rather, 
therein  is  everything  to  gladden,  to 
guide  aright,  to  uplift  the  lives  of  all 
who  accept  it.  It  provides  for  satisfac- 
tions and  joys  of  group  and  individual 
life  alike.  And  that  is  the  destined  end 
of  life,  for  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  has 
said,  ".  .  .  men  are,  that  they  might  have 
joy."  (2  Nephi  2:25.)  Possessed  of  that 
joy  furnished  by  observing  the  laws, 
principles,  and  ordinances  of  the  king- 
dom, everyone  belonging  to  it  may 
experience,  unhindered,  an  enlarge- 
ment of  soul,  a  development  which 
will  be  its  own  evidence  and  witness 
of  life  growing  toward  Godlikeness.  Is 
this  not  a  consummation  devoutly  to 
be  wished?  This  surely  must  be  the 
value  of  God's  kingdom  in  the  lives  of 
all  people. 

Brothers  and  sisters  and  friends,  I 
bear  humble  witness  that  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  is 
God's  kingdom  on  earth.  It  is  here  for 
a  purpose,  and  in  this  last  dispensation 
of  time  that  purpose  is  a  tremendous 
one.  The  obligation  upon  us  as  mem- 
bers of  the  restored  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  to  see  to  it  that  this  gospel 
is  preached  to  every  nation,  kindred, 
tongue,  and  people,  that  they  may  be 
left  without  excuse  in  the  day  of  judg- 
ment. I  bear  you  this  witness  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


PRESIDENT  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


137 


President  Hugh  B.  Brown: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Del- 
bert  L.  Stapley. 

I  am  going  to  presume  to  read  some 
words  which  the  President  has  penned 
— words  of  appreciation  to  various 
ones — and  I  am  doing  this  in  order  that 
the  voice  of  the  Prophet  of  God,  Presi- 
dent McKay,  may  be  the  last  voice  to 
be  heard  from  this  pulpit  at  this  Con- 
ference, except  the  prayer  of  benediction. 

The  music,  as  you  know,  for  this 
afternoon's  session,  has  been  furnished 
by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Chorale  and  this  morning  by  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Combined  Cho- 
ruses. In  behalf  of  all  who  have  been 
privileged  to  listen  to  their  singing  we 
express  appreciation  and  thanks  to  these 
choice  young  students  for  the  beautiful 
music  they  have  rendered  in  these  Con- 
ference sessions  today.  With  all  our 
hearts  we  say  to  them,  "God  bless  you." 
We  pray  that  the  spirit  of  this  occa- 
sion will  remain  with  you  always  I 

We  express  thanks  and  deep  appre- 
ciation to  all  who  have  furnished  the 
singing  for  the  sessions  of  this  Con- 
ference— to  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  with 
Elders  Condie  and  Jay  E.  Welch  con- 
ducting, Elders  Frank  W.  Asper  and 
Alexander  Schreiner  as  organists,  for 
their  participation  in  the  Saturday 
morning  broadcast  session,  the  Gen- 
eral Priesthood  Session  Saturday  evening 
with  the  Men's  Chorus  from  the  Tab- 
ernacle Choir,  the  Sunday  morning 
broadcast  session,  and  also  the  Sunday 
afternoon  session;  the  Selected  Youth 
Choir  from  the  Salt  Lake  and  Davis 
Counties  who  furnished  the  singing  for 
the  Saturday  afternoon  session  with 
Brother  Jay  E.  Welch  conducting  and 
Roy  M.  Darley  at  the  organ;  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  Combined  Cho- 
ruses and  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Chorale  who  furnished  the  music  for 
the  Monday  sessions  with  John  R.  Hal- 
liday  and  Kurt  Weinzinger  conducting 
and  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  express  appreciation,  also,  to  all 
who  have  in  any  way  contributed  to  the 
success  and  inspiration  of  this  great 
Conference: 

We  wish  to  express  appreciation  to 
our  beloved  associates,   the  General 


Authorities,  who  have  delivered  such 
timely  and  inspirational  messages. 

We  appreciate  the  attention  given 
by  the  local  and  national  press  repre- 
sentatives, and  by  representatives  of 
radio  and  television  in  reporting  the 
sessions  of  this  Conference. 

We  deeply  appreciate  the  cooperation 
of  city  officials  and  city  traffic  officers 
who  have  handled  carefully  and  ably 
increased  traffic;  also  the  Fire  Depart- 
ment and  the  Red  Cross  who  have  been 
on  hand. 

We  thank  the  Tabernacle  ushers  for 
their  courtesy  and  consideration  in  seat- 
ing the  great  audiences  of  these  Con- 
ference sessions. 

As  heretofore  mentioned,  we  are  most 
grateful  to  the  owners  and  managers 
of  the  many  radio  and  television  sta- 
tions throughout  the  nation  and  our 
own  city,  who  have  carried  the  sessions 
of  this  Conference  from  coast  to  coast, 
to  Alaska,  Hawaii,  and  Canada,  and  by 
short-wave  to  listeners  in  many  coun- 
tries of  the  world.  Through  the  exten- 
sive radio  and  television  coverage  of  this 
annual  Conference,  we  have  had  a  po- 
tential audience  of  ninety  million  peo- 
ple. How  grateful  and  thankful  we  are 
to  the  Lord  for  the  enlightenment  and 
knowledge  He  has  revealed  to  man  in 
this  age,  making  it  possible  to  bring 
the  truths  of  the  Gospel  to  millions 
almost  the  same  instant  that  we  our- 
selves hear  it. 

Just  a  reminder  to  be  careful  as  you 
drive  on  the  highways. 

We  wish  to  express  again  our 
thanks  and  deep  appreciation  for  these 
beautiful  flowers  that  decorate  this 
rostrum — the  orchids,  one  thousand  of 
them,  have  come  from  the  San  Jose 
West  Stake  in  California;  the  daffodils 
are  from  the  Tacoma  Stake;  the  calla 
lilies  are  from  the  high  priests  quo- 
rum of  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake; 
and  the  vases  in  which  some  of  these 
flowers  are  seen  have  been  placed  here 
by  Indian  members  of  the  Polaca  Ward 
in  Arizona.  We  thank  these,  our  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  and  pray  God's  choicest 
blessings  may  be  with  them. 

The  Brigham  Young  University 
Chorale,  after  President  McKay  has 
spoken  and  left  us  his  admonition  and 
his  blessing,  will  sing  without  any 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


138 

Monday,  April  6 

further  announcement,  "Glorious  Ever- 
lasting," and  the  benediction  will  then 
be  offered  by  Elder  Percy  K.  Fetzer, 
formerly  president  of  the  North  German 
and  Berlin  Missions,  after  which  the 


Third  Day 

Conference  will  be  adjourned  for  six 
months. 

It  will  now  be  our  privilege  to  listen 
to  the  President  of  the  Church,  David 
O.  McKay. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


I  thank  Brother  Brown  for  expressing 
appreciation  for  those  who  have  partici- 
pated and  made  memorable  this 
great  conference. 

I  sat  here  looking  at  the  number 
of  men  and  boys  who  occupy  the  center 
of  this  Tabernacle  audience.  Twenty- 
five  or  thirty  years  ago  you  were  just 
boys,  anticipating  serving  the  Church. 
You  are  still  just  boys.  The  dearest 
thing  in  your  life  now  is  your  boy.  I 
hope  that  these  young  boys,  who  in 
twenty  years  from  now  will  be  occupy- 
ing your  seats,  will  give  you  the  satis- 
faction that  you  have  given  your  fathers. 

I  am  overwhelmed  with  the  thought 
of  the  thousands,  tens  of  thousands  of 
young  men  who  were  in  this  Tabernacle 
on  Saturday  night,  and  the  other  halls 
on  closed-circuit  television  and  direct 
audio  line,  through  the  service  made 
possible  by  KSL  and  kindred  means 
of  communication. 

These  young  people  from  Brigham 
Young  University,  occupying  the  seats 
in  the  choir  and  furnishing  the  music, 
have  a  great  obligation  upon  them 
that  they  may  grow  up  as  conscious 
of  their  responsibility  of  being  sons  and 
daughters  as  you  would  have  them 
realize  that  responsibility.  We  also  had 
a  group  of  young  people  from  Salt  Lake 
and  Davis  counties,  appreciation  for 
whose  attendance  Brother  Brown  has 
already  expressed. 

It  is  a  great  thing  to  be  a  father  of 
boys  and  girls.  I  think  it  is  a  precious 
thing  for  our  boys  and  girls  to  realize 
their  responsibility,  to  carry  their 
father's  name  in  love  and  honor.  Car- 
lyle,  I  think  it  was,  said:  "In  this  world 
there  is  one  Godlike  virtue,  the  essence 
of  all  that  ever  was  or  ever  will  be  God- 
like in  this  world — the  veneration  done 
to  human  worth  by  the  hearts  of  men." 

Ninety  million  people  possibly  have 
in  their  hearts  an  appreciation  of  your 
attendance  at  this  conference — three 
days  of  joy  and  satisfaction! 


Let  us  go  from  this  conference  with  a 
prayer  of  appreciation  that  we  have 
sons  who  will  take  our  places  some  day, 
as  you  have  taken  the  position  now 
that  your  father  wished  you  would  take. 

I  think  I  cannot  do  better  than  to 
quote  to  these  young  people  here  who 
have  furnished  us  such  inspirational 
music,  to  the  thousands  of  others  who 
were  present  Saturday,  and  to  the  young 
boys  and  girls  in  all  the  world,  a  poem 
by  Edgar  A.  Guest  in  which  he  ex- 
presses appreciation  for  a  son.  I  think 
it  is  about  one  of  the  best  things  he 
has  written.    He  starts  out  by  saying: 

"We've  never  seen  the  Father  here,  but 

we  have  known  the  Son, 
The  finest  type  of  manhood  since  the 

world  was  first  begun. 
And,  summing  up  the  works  of  God, 

I  write  with  reverent  pen, 
The  greatest  is  the  Son  He  sent  to  cheer 

the  lives  of  men. 

"Through  Him  we  learned  the  ways  of 

God  and  found  the  Father's  love; 
The  Son  it  was  who  won  us  back  to 

Him  who  reigns  above. 
The  Lord  did  not  come  down  himself 

to  prove  to  men  His  worth, 
He  sought  our  worship  through  the 

Child  He  placed  upon  the  earth. 

"How  can   I   best   express   my  life? 

Wherein  does  greatness  lie? 
How  can  I  long  remembrance  win,  since 

I  am  born  to  die? 
Both  fame  and  gold  are  selfish  things; 

their  charms  may  quickly  flee, 
But  I'm  the  father  of  a  boy  who  came 

to  speak  for  me. 

"In  him  lies  all  I  hope  to  be;  his  splen- 
dor shall  be  mine; 

I  shall  have  done  man's  greatest  work 
if  only  he  is  fine. 

If  some  day  he  shall  help  the  world 
long  after  I  am  dead, 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


139 


In  all  that  men  shall  say  of  him  my 
praises  shall  be  said. 

"It  matters  not  what  I  may  win  of 

fleeting  gold  or  fame, 
My  hope  of  joy  depends  alone  on  what 

my  boy  shall  claim. 
My  story  must  be  told  through  him; 

for  him  I  work  and  plan, 
Man's  greatest  duty  is  to  be  the  father 

of  a  man." 
—"Thoughts  of  a  Father"  in  The 
Path  to  Home  by  Edgar  A.  Guest 

Boys  in  the  Mormon  Church,  boys  all 
over  the  world,  remember  the  obliga- 
tions of  sonship,  the  obligation  to  make 
your  father  and  mother  happy  and 
proud  of  you. 

We  have  had  a  wonderful  confer- 
ence, and  it  now  draws  to  a  close. 
Let  us  take  with  us  our  appreciation 
of  being  a  father,  appreciation  of  being 
a  mother.  And  boys  and  girls,  go  with 
the  responsibility  that  you  have  to  bring 
comfort  and  gladness  and  thankfulness 
to  the  hearts  of  your  fathers  and 
mothers. 

God  bless  you,  fellow  workers,  you 
boys  and  girls  of  yesterday;  may  you 
set  a  proper  example  to  the  boys  and 
girls  of  today,  I  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 


Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Chorale,  "Glorious  Everlasting." 
Elder  Percy  K.  Fetzer,  formerly  Presi- 


dent of  the  North  German  and  Berlin 
Missions,  offered  the  closing  prayer. 
Conference  adjourned  for  six  months. 

The  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  Choir  fur- 
nished the  musical  numbers  for  the 
Saturday  morning,  and  Sunday  morning, 
and  afternoon  sessions  of  the  Confer- 
ence, Richard  P.  Condie,  Conductor, 
and  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Conductor. 

The  Men  of  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
furnished  the  choral  music  for  the 
General  Priesthood  Meeting  Saturday 
evening,  Richard  P.  Condie  conducting. 

Saturday  afternoon  the  musical  num- 
bers were  furnished  by  a  selected  youth 
choir  from  Salt  Lake  and  Davis  Stakes, 
with  Jay  E.  Welch,  Assistant  Director 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  conducting. 

The  choral  music  for  the  Monday 
morning  session  was  furnished  by  the 
Brigham  Young  University  Combined 
Choruses,  John  R.  Halliday  conductor. 

Monday  afternoon,  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Choral  furnished  the 
musical  numbers. 

Richard  P.  Condie  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  on  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcast 
Sunday  morning. 

Accompaniments  on  the  organ  were 
played  by  Alexander  Schreiner,  and 
Frank  W.  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organists, 
and  Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant  Taber- 
nacle Organist. 

Joseph  Anderson, 
Clerk  of  the  Conference 


140  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

SALT  LAKE  MORMON 
TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  was  presented  from  9:35  to 
10:00  a.m.  Sunday,  April  5,  1964, 
through  the  courtesy  of  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  The  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  signal 
the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
Hymn,  "Gently  Raise  The  Sacred 
Strain,"  singing  the  words  to  the  end 
of  the  second  line,  and  humming  to  end 
of  verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads 
of  the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  affili- 
ated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  Richard 
P.  Condie  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle  Organ- 
ist, and  the  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

From  the  Old  Testament  account  of 
the  Creation,  as  God  looked  out  and 
saw  what  He  had  made  and  it  was  very 
good — the  voices  of  Joan  Ottely,  Glen 
Johnson  and  Henry  Anderegg  sing,  with 
the  Choir  from  Franz  Joseph  Haydn: 
"The  Heavens  are  Telling  the  glory 
of  God;  the  wonder  of  His  works  dis- 
play the  firmament.  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "The  Heavens  Are 
Telling"— Haydn.) 

Announcer:  Frank  Asper,  Tabernacle 
Organist  continues  on  Temple  Square 
with  a  theme  arranged  from  Haydn: 
"Truth  Divine." 

(Organ  Selection:  "Truth  Divine" — 
Haydn.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
now  recalls  one  of  the  hymns  of  Parley 
P.  Pratt,  sung  to  a  tune  by  John  Tul- 
lidge:  "An  Angel  from  on  High  the 
long,  long  silence  broke." 


(Choir:  "An  Angel  From  on  High"— 
Tullidge.) 

Announcer:  We  spoke  last  week  of  the 
certainty  of  everlasting  life.  But  what 
about  the  quality,  the  conditions  of  ever- 
lasting life?  ".  .  .  who  can  predict  the 
quality  of  the  life  which  is  coming  to  us 
in  the  great  hereafter?"  questioned  one 
quoted  source.  "Does  it  not  depend  on 
the  quality  of  this  present  life?  Are  we 
not  today  determining,  not  so  much 
whether  we  shall  live  forever,  as  how  we 
shall  live  forever?  Are  we  not  now  mak- 
ing for  ourselves  the  heaven  to  which 
our  hopes  climb  .  .  .  ?  There  stands  the 
open  door . . .  but  when  we  have  entered, 
how  far  shall  we  go  and  what  shall  our 
possession  be?"1  In  his  Epistle  to  the 
Corinthians,  Paul  said:  ".  .  .  the  glory  of 
the  celestial  is  one,  and  the  glory  of  the 
terrestrial  is  another.  .  .  .  There  is  one 
glory  of  the  sun,  and  another  glory  of 
the  moon,  and  another  glory  of  the 
stars."2  Obviously  there  will  be  differ- 
ences hereafter  depending  upon  our  de- 
servingness.  Somewhere  we  have  heard 
this  said:  If  you  would  be  comfortable 
in  heaven,  you  would  be  there.  This 
would  seem  true  to  this  extent:  Evil  men 
would  not  be  comfortable  in  the  com- 
pany of  good  men,  and  good  men  would 
not  be  comfortable  in  the  company  of 
evil  men.  The  company  we  seek  and 
enjoy  and  choose  is  exceedingly  signifi- 
cant. But  there  is  yet  another  very 
different  side  to  this  subject,  and  that 
concerns  the  kind  of  company  we  are 
when  we  are  solely  with  ourselves.  We 
cite  this  question  from  an  ancient 
source:  "Why  should  we  move  to  find 
countries  and  climates  of  another  kind? 
What  exile  leaves  himself  behind."3 
The  answer  is  that  no  one  leaves  him- 
self behind.  We  ourselves  are  con- 
stantly in  our  own  company,  and  should 
make  of  ourselves  the  best  possible  kind 
of  company.  We  ought  to  seek  knowl- 
edge so  that  we  can  carry  on  intelligent 

1Editorial.  The  Outlook:  "An  Easter  Meditation." 
April  22,  1905. 
2New  Testament.  1  Cor.  15:40,  41. 
3Quoted  by  Montaigne.  Of  Solitude,  accr.  to  Horace. 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


141 


conversation  with  ourselves.  And  we 
ought  always  to  live  so  as  to  have  a 
quiet  and  comfortable  conscience.  It 
isn't  comfortable  to  carry  on  a  conversa- 
tion with  a  bad  conscience.  Said  Rich- 
ardson Packe:  "There  is  nothing  that  a 
man  can  less  afford  to  leave  at  home  than 
his  conscience  or  his  good  habits.  .  . 
This  is  true  of  traveling  in  time  or  in 
eternity.  "Whatever  principle  of  intel- 
ligence we  attain  unto  in  this  life,  it 
will  rise  with  us  in  the  resurrection."5 
The  company  of  others  is  important, 
but  there  is  nothing  more  important 
than  our  own  company  and  companion- 
ship because  now  and  always  and 
everlastingly  we  are  inseparably  with 
ourselves. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "He  Died,  the 
Great  Redeemer  Died" — Careless.) 

Announcer:  Dr.  Asper  has  recalled 
a  hymn  tune  by  George  Careless  which 
takes  its  title  from  the  words  of  Isaac 
Watts:  "He  Died,  the  Great  Redeemer 
Died." 

And  now  the  Tabernacle  Choir  re- 
calls these  stirring  fervent  words  of 
Daniel  C.  Roberts,  sung  to  the  music 
of  George  William  Warren:  "God  of 
our  fathers,  whose  almighty  hand  leads 
forth  in  beauty  all  the  starry  band  of 
shining  worlds  in  splendor  through  the 
skies,  Our  grateful  songs  before  thy 
throne  arise." 


'Richardson  Packe  (1680-1728).  Eng.  Author. 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  130:18. 


(The  Choir  sang:  "God  of  our 
Fathers" — Warren. ) 

Announcer:  Cyril  Jenkins,  contem- 
porary British  Composer,  has  given  us 
this  setting  for  words  selected  from  the 
112th  Psalm,  and  the  7th  Chapter  of 
Revelation:  "Unto  the  upright  there 
ariseth  light  in  the  darkness.  .  .  .  These 
are  they  which  came  out  of  great  tribu- 
lation .  .  .  they  shall  hunger  and  thirst 
no  more  and  God  shall  wipe  away  all 
tears  from  their  eyes.  Therefore  are 
they  before  the  throne  of  God,  and  serve 
Him  day  and  night  in  His  Temple." — 
"Light  in  Darkness." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Light  in  Darkness" 
— Jenkins) 

Announcer:  Again  we  leave  you  with- 
in the  shadows  of  the  everlasting  hills. 
May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day — and 
always. 

This  concludes  the  eighteen  hun- 
dred and  seventh  presentation,  and  con- 
tinues the  35th  year  of  this  traditional 
broadcast  from  the  Mormon  Tabernacle 
on  Temple  Square,  brought  to  you  by 
CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  stations, 
originating  with  Radio  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City. 

Richard  P.  Condie  conducted  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  Frank  Asper  was  at 
the  organ.  The  spoken  word  by  Richard 
Evans. 

In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 
hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 
be  heard  again  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 


Index 


Anderson,  Elder  Joseph,  Clerk  of  the  Conference  ...1,  139 

Statistical  report    101 

Auditing  Committee  Report  103 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present   1,  2 

Authorities  and  Officers  presented  and  sustained  103,  106 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft   118 

119 — Testimony:  Jesus  is  the  Christ;  120 — Resurrection,  a  Glorious  Reality; 
121— His  Kingdom  Not  of  this  World;  121— Impact  of  His  Life;  121— His 
Comforting  Spirit;  122 — His  Church  Restored. 

Brockbank,  Elder  Bernard  P  109 

109—  "Seek  ye  first  .  .  .";  109— "The  field  is  white  .  .  .";  110— "By  their 
fruits  .  .  .";  110 — The  Messages  of  the  New  Testament;  110— Christ-centered; 

110—  "Another  Angel";  110— The  Restoration;  111— Heavenly  Beings;  111 — 
Scriptures;  111 — Life  Eternal. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B.  (Sunday  Morning  Address)    80 

80— Revival  of  Religion;  81 — A  New  Birth  in  Our  Time;  81— Absolute  Confi- 
dence in  the  Gospel;  81 — Newly  Revealed  Truth  Accepted;  82 — Positive  Doc- 
trine of  Man;  82— Man,  a  Child  of  God,  Not  Alone;  82 — Christianity  Relevant 
to  the  Modern  World;  83 — Evidence  of  Intelligence;  83 — Convincing  Knowl- 
edge of  God;  83 — He  is  Real  and  Personal. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B  20,  21,  25,  28,  33,  36,  39,  118,  122,  126,  129,  132,  137 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B   54 

54 — Names  and  Their  Connotations;  55 — Consecrated  Manliness;  55 — Power- 
Uses  and  Abuses;  56 — Power  of  Purity;  56 — Find  Good  in  Men. 

Brown,  President  Hugh  B.  (Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and 

Officers)   103,  106 

Brown,  Bishop  Victor  L   90 

90— "Attitude  Test";  91 — "Count  Your  Blessings";  92— Child  of  Unusual 
Talents;  92 — Thankful  for  Thirteen  Years;  92 — Attribute  of  Spirituality. 

Burton,  Elder  Theodore  M   71 

71— Literal  Resurrection;  72— Gospel  in  Spirit  World;  72— "That  They  Might 
Be  Judged";  72 — Repentance  and  Covenants;  72— Opportunity  to  Covenant; 

73—  Ordinances  Performed  Vicariously;  73 — Genealogy  a  Means;  73 — Christ, 
An  Example  of  Vicarious  Service;  73— A  Work  of  Love. 

Cowie,  Brother  Douglas    43 

Critchlow,  Elder  William  J.,  Jr   29 

29— Eternal  Life;  30— Blessings  of  the  Present;  30— Peace  of  Mind;  31— Ful- 
ness of  Joy;  31 — Blessings  of  the  Priesthood;  32— Intelligence  Before  the  World 
Was;  32— "Minister  to  the  Inhabitants  of  the  World." 

Dyer,  Elder  Alvin  R   74 

74 —  Conviction,  A  Modern  Need;  74 — "Tobacco  is  not  good  for  man"; 

75 —  Recognizing  Right  and  Wrong;  76 — First  Principles;  First  Ordinances; 

76 —  Repentance,  Basic  Principle  of  Growth;  77 — Forgiveness;  77 — "I  will 
remember  them  no  more";  77 — Conviction  of  Truth. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L  126 

127— Repentance — The  Principle  of  Progress;  128— To  Enlarge  Life;  128— "An- 
other Angel  .  .  .";  128— Joseph  Smith  Told  the  Truth. 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L.  (Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast)   140 


144 


INDEX 


First  Day 

Morning  Meeting    3 

Afternoon  Meeting   20 

General  Authorities  Present  1,  2 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Presented  and  Sustained  103,  106 

General  Priesthood  Meeting    40 

Hinckley,  Elder  Gordon  B   36 

36— The  Gospel  to  Ancient  Asia;  37— Faith  in  Revelation;  37— The  "Fount" 
of  Inspiration;  37 — Channels  of  Communication  Open;  37 — Opening  of  Mis- 
sion in  the  Philippines;  38 — A  Filipino  Seeks  a  Prophet;  38 — "Tobacco  is  Not 
Good  for  Man";  39 — Wisdom  by  Revelation;  39 — Revelation  for  the  Atomic 
Age. 

Hunter,  Elder  Howard  W   33 

33—  "Tithe"  for  Sacred  Uses;  33— The  "Tithe"  of  Abraham;  34— Of  Jacob; 

34—  Of  the  Levites;  34 — A  Universal  Law;  34— Malachi's  Charge;  35 — Uni- 
versal Law  Reiterated;  35 — The  Law  for  the  Latter-day  Saints;  35 — Obedience 
Voluntary;  35— Tithing  and  Debt;  35— The  Gift  of  Value;  36— The  Gift, 
With  Love;  36 — The  Gift — with  Faith;  36 — Giving,  Receiving  a  Testimony. 

Isaacson,  Elder  Thorpe  B  112 

112— My  Neighbor;  112— The  Opposition's  Candidate;  112— Respect  His  Good 
Name;  113 — Protect  His  Honor;  113 — Gossip's  Tongue;  114— "In  a  world 
where  sorrow  .  .  .";  114 — Crimes  of  the  Tongue;  114— "Nay,  Speak  No  111." 

Kimball,  Elder  Spencer  W   93 

93— Prize  of  Great  Worth;  93— Spiritual  Famine  Ended;  94— The  Way  to 
Celestial  Life;  94— To  Know  God;  95— The  Tempter;  96— Protected ;  97— An- 
other World;  97 — "Eyewitness  to  His  Majesty";  97— The  Prophet's  Vision. 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B   21 

22— The  "Fruits";  22— True  "Fruits";  "He,  The  Omnipotent  Guide;"  22— The 
Greatest  Strength  of  the  Church;  23— "Almost,  But  Not  Quite  .  .  ."  24 — How 
to  Cultivate  Good  Fruit;  24 — Rededication;  25 — Development  of  Spiritual 
Qualities — The  True  Fruits;  35 — Mortality:  Always  Pain. 

Longden,  Elder  John   115 

116 — Evidence;  117 — Time  Not  Known  to  Man;  117 — Scriptural  Evidence. 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R   25 

26— God  Has  Spoken  Again;  26— He  has  Conferred  Power  from  "On  High"; 
26— The  First  Vision;  27— The  Church  Organized;  27 — Covenants  and 
Commandments;  27 — His  Atoning  Sacrifice;  28 — The  Divine  Mission  of 
Joseph  Smith;  28 — Restitution  of  All  Things. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Opening  Remarks)    3 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Opening  Address)    3 

3 — "Blessed  Are  They  Who  Do  His  Commandments  .  .  .";  4 — The  Habit 
of  Smoking;  4 — Strong  Drinks  and  Tobacco  are  Not  Good  for  Man;  5 — In- 
creasing Number  of  Divorces;  Chastity. 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (General  Priesthood  Meeting)    57 

57— "The  Price  He  Paid." 

McKay,  President  David  O.  (Closing  Address)   138 

138— "Thoughts  of  a  Father." 

McKay,  President  David  0  3,  4,  5,  6,  7,  10,  15,  19,  20,  39,  43,  50,  54, 

57,  58,  64,  67,  71,  74,  78,  88,  106,  109,  111,  115,  117,  129 

Monson,  Elder  Thomas  S  129 

129— "Have  You  Tried  Prayer?";  130— Family  Prayer;  131— Prayer  is  the 
Language  of  Faith;  131— Source  of  Spiritual  Power;  131— Faith  Generates 
Action. 


INDEX 


145 


Packer,  Boyd  K   84 

84 — A  Sacred  Influence;  85 — Teaching  the  Gospel  to  Children;  85 — For  Chil- 
dren Impaired;  85 — For  Fostered  Children;  86 — "Beauty";  86 — The  Sphere  of 
Mother. 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E   16 

16 — Revolution;  16-Modern  Reformation;  16 — Clergy- Weakened  Religion; 
16 — Reformation,  How  Accomplished;  17 — Revisions  of  Doctrines  at  Variance 
with  the  Bible;  17— Infant  Baptism;  18— Products  of  the  Dark  Ages;  18— Re- 
turn to  Bible?;  18 — Missing  Books;  18 — The  Saviour's  Teachings;  19 — Revela- 
tion Needed;  19 — New  Revelation. 

Plumb,  Brother  Ronald  G     41 

Richards,  Elder  Franklin  D   64 

64— The  Godhead;  65 — The  Atonement;  65 — In  the  Service  of  God;  66 — Op- 
portunities, Many  and  Varied;  66 — "Teach  All  Nations";  67 — Investment  of 
Talents  in  Service;  67 — Sacrifice  Brings  Blessings;  67 — Building  the  Kingdom. 

Romney,  Elder  Marion  G  122 

122 —  God  Communicates  with  Men;  123 — Opens  the  Mind  and  the  Spirit; 

123—  Man  Must  Be  Born  Again;  123— "To  see  if  they  will  do  .  .  .";  124— Mani- 
festations of  Revelation;  124 — The  Holy  Ghost;  124 — Visitations  of  Angels; 

124—  The  Unspoken  Word;  124— Impelling  Impulse;  124— Dreams;  124— Vi- 
sions; 124— Flashes  of  Ideas;  125— "Study  it  Out";  125— "Ask  if  it  be  right 
.  .  .";  125 — The  Great  Exemplar;  125 — Keep  Commandments;  126 — Receive 
Light  and  Truth;  126 — "God  Has  Opened  the  Heavens." 

Salt  Lake  Mormon  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  140 

Second  Day,  Morning  Meeting    58 

Afternoon  Meeting    79 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W   11 

11 — Days  Remembered;  11 — Greatest  Day;  12 — Time  in  Mind;  12 — Past  and 
Future;  12 — "Time  Travelling"  by  Prophets;  13 — Day  of  Judgment;  14 — Revela- 
tion of  John;  14 — The  Redeemer  Lives;  14 — Pictures  Communicate;  15 — Imagine 
Judgment  Day;  15 — "New  Heaven,  and  New  Earth." 

Simpson,  Bishop  Robert  L   68 

68 —  Obligations  and  Blessings;  68 — Love,  the  Prime  Ingredient;  69 — "Follow 
the  Leader";   69 — Respect   Free  Agency;   69 — Persuasion   not  Compulsion; 

69 —  Communication,  Many  Forms;  70 — For  Boys;  70 — For  Girls;  70 — To  Boys. 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G   86 

86 — A  Living,  Loving  Father;  86 — His  Son,  Jesus  Christ;  87 — Instructions  to 

Us;  87— Guidance  Through  Prayer;  87— His  Way  Best. 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding   107 

107 — Repentance  Essential;  107 — Mortality  Part  of  Eternity;  108 — Cleanliness 
and  Eternal  Existence;  108 — Not  a  Lovely  Sight;  108 — Chastity  Fundamental; 
109 — "Precious  Above  All  Things." 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L  132 

132— Truth  Leads  to  Eternal  Life;  133— The  Kingdom  of  God;  134— Principles, 
Doctrines  and  Ordinances  of  the  Kingdom;  135 — The  Function  of  the  Kingdom; 
135— Our  Mission  is  to  Save;  135 — Kingdom  of  Peace;  136 — To  Stand  Against 
the  Adversary;  136 — The  Gospel  "for  every  nation,  kindred.  .  .  ." 

Statistical  Report   101 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers   103,  106 

Taylor,  Elder  Henry  D   88 

88— We  Believe  in  God;  88— "Hallowed  Be  Thy  Name";  89— Clean  and 
Simple  Speech;  89 — Speech  Reflects  Mind  and  Heart. 


146 


INDEX 


Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon  (General  Priesthood  Meeting)    50 

51 —  Bishop's,  Father's  Advice  and  Example;  51 — "I  could  depend  upon  you."; 

52—  "Have  a  Good  Time";  52— "Serve  the  Lord  in  His  Way";  52— "The 
Power  of  God";  53— A  Boy  Taught  by  Heavenly  Beings;  53— "Be  Obedient"; 

53—  The  Folly  of  Cheating;  54— "Honest  with  Yourself." 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon    59 

59— "We  believe—";  60— In  God;  60— In  the  Son  of  God;  60— In  the  Atone- 
ment; 60— The  Bible;  61— The  Bible  Reveals  the  Will  of  God;  61— The  Book 
of  Mormon;  62 — Another  Angel;  62 — The  Gospel  Restored;  63 — Appearances 
of  Divine  Beings;  68 — Testimony  of  the  Restoration. 

Tanner,  President  Nathan  Eldon   79,  80,  84,  87,  88,  89,  99 


Turtle,  Elder  A.  Theodore   7 

7 — Greetings  from  40,000  members;  7 — Conversions  in  South  America;  8 — 
Promises  Being  Fulllled;  8 — Authority  by  Direct  Revelation;  9 — Brotherly 
Kindness;  9 — Search  for  Truth  Brings  Freedom;  10 — Search  for  Better  Life. 

Third  Day,  Morning  Meeting    99 

Afternoon  Meeting   118 

Vandenberg,  Bishop  John  H   46 

47 —  Marvels  of  Men,  How  Achieved;  47 — Priesthood,  An  Active  Force  for 
Character  Building;  47 — The   Office   of   Bishop;   47 — Attitude   of  Bishop; 

48 —  Assignments  of  Responsibility;  48- — -A  Testimony  from  Life;  49 — Youth 
Wants  to  be  Strong;  49 — The  Body  a  Sacred  Blessing;  50 — Aaronic  Priesthood, 
Effective  Principle  of  Progress;  50 — "Young  Men,  God  Loves  You." 


.'"  "Sri        "  ^' 

Leader 

POCKET  EDITIONS 
FROM  DESERET  BOOK 

Handy  editions  of  all  foremost  LDS  works  that  fit  neatly  in 
the  pocket. 

BIBLE,  Pocket  King  James  Version  $8.50 

TRIPLE  COMBINATION,  Book  of  Mormon,  Doctrine 

and  Covenants,  and  Pearl  of  Great  Price  $6.50 

THE  ARTICLES  OF  FAITH  by  James  E.  Talmage  $5.50 

JESUS  THE  CHRIST  by  James  E.  Talmage  $6.50 

A  MARVELOUS  WORK  AND  A  WONDER 

by  Le Grand  Richards  $3.95 

LDS  HYMN  BOOK  $3.95 


tleoeret  Book 

COMPANY 

44  EAST  SO.  TEMPLE  AND  AT  COTTONWOOD  MALL 
SALT  LAKE  CITY 
2472  WASHINGTON  BLVD.,  OODEN 
777  SO.  MAIN  ST.,  ORANGE,  CALIFORNIA 


Printed  by 


