■li^MiH 


OnsL  dturub&d.  Jwsnh^-MvenJth, 

ANNUAL 

conmcE 

OF  THE  CHURCH   OF  JESUS  CHRIST 
OF   LATTER-DAY  SAINTS 


■\5^j 


Held  in  the  Tabernacle 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 

dpjul  5,  6,  and.  7,  1957 

With   Report  of  Discourses 

Published    by 

The  Church   of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints 

Salt  Lake   City,   Utah 

Printed  in  the  United  States  of  America 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-Seventh  Annual 

Conference  of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 

of  Latter-day  Saints 


The  One  Hundred  Twenty-seventh 
Annual  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  was 
held  in  the  Tabernacle,  Salt  Lake  City, 
Utah,  Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday, 
April  5,  6,  and  7,  1957. 

The  general  sessions  of  the  Conference 
were  held  at  10:00  a.m.  and  2:00  p.m. 
Friday,  Saturday,  and  Sunday,  and  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting  was  held  in 
the  Tabernacle  Saturday  evening,  April 
6,  at  7:00. 

The  proceedings  of  the  general  ses- 
sions were  broadcast  and  telecast  over 
Station  KSL  and  KSL-TV  at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  by  arrangement  through 
KSL  the  following  stations  made  avail- 
able to  their  listening  or  viewing  audi- 
ences one  or  more  of  the  six  general  ses- 
sions: 

In  Utah:  KSVC  at  Richfield,  KSUB 
at  Cedar  City,  KVEL  at  Vernal,  KVNU 
at  Logan. 

In  Idaho:  KRXK  at  Rexburg,  KEEP 
and  KLIX-TV  at  Twin  Falls,  KBAR  at 
Burley,  KID  and  KID-TV  at  Idaho 
Falls,  KBOI  and  KBOI-TV  at  Boise, 
KPST  at  Preston,  KLEW-TV  at  Lewis- 
ton. 

In  Colorado:  KEXO  at  Grand  Junc- 
tion, KRAI  at  Craig,  KBTV  at  Denver. 

In  Nevada:  KELY  at  Ely,  KLAS-TV 
at  Las  Vegas. 

In  California:  KEEN  at  San  Jose, 
KSRO  at  Santa  Rosa,  KRDG  at  Redding, 
KGO-TV  at  San  Francisco,  KNXT-TV 
at  Hollywood,  KEY-TV  at  Santa  Bar- 
bara, KERO-TV  at  Bakersfield,  KFMB- 
TV  at  San  Diego,  KOVR-TV  at 
Stockton. 

In  Oregon:  KUBE  at  Pendleton, 
KOIN-TV  at  Portland,  KBES-TV  at 
Medford. 

In  Arizona:  KOOL-TV  at  Phoenix, 
KGUN-TV  at  Tucson. 

In  Washington:  KXLY-TV  at  Spo- 
kane, KIMA-TV  at  Yakima,  KING-TV 
at  Seattle,  KEPR-TV  at  Pasco,  KBAS- 
TV  at  Ephrata. 


All  general  sessions  of  the  conference 
were  broadcast  in  the  Assembly  Hall  on 
Temple  Square,  in  Barratt  Hall  (60 
North  Main  Street),  over  a  loudspeak- 
ing  system  and  by  television.  Thou- 
sands, in  addition,  listened  to  the  serv- 
ices on  the  Tabernacle  Grounds  by 
means  of  amplifying  equipment. 

The  proceedings  of  the  General  Priest- 
hood meeting  were  broadcast  in  the 
Assembly  Hall,  in  Barratt  Hall,  over 
public  address  systems,  and  by  direct 
wire  over  a  public  address  system  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  in  other  as- 
semblies in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colorado, 
Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona,  Wyo- 
ming, Nevada,  Illinois,  New  Mexico, 
Maryland,  Montana,  New  York,  Cali- 
fornia, Pennsylvania,  and  Canada. 

President  David  O.  McKay  presided 
and  conducted  the  services  at  each  of  the 
sessions  of  the  Conference,  including  the 
General  Priesthood  meeting. 

A  full  report  of  Columbia  Broadcast- 
ing System's  Tabernacle  Choir  and 
Organ  broadcast  is  also  included  in  this 
record,  as  is  also  a  full  account  of 
Columbia's  Church  of  the  Air  program. 
(See  pages  133-138.) 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  was  Clerk  of 
the  Conference. 

General  Authorities  of  the  Church 
Present 

The  First  Presidency:  David  O. 
McKay,  Stephen  L  Richards,  and  J. 
Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

The  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  Harold  B.  Lee, 
Spencer  W.  Kimball,  Ezra  Taft  Benson, 
Mark  E.  Petersen,  Henry  D.  Moyle, 
Delbert  L.  Stapley,  Marion  G.  Romney, 
LeGrand  Richards,  Adam  S.  Bennion, 
Richard  L.  Evans,  and  George  Q.  Morris. 

Patriarch  to  the  Church:  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve  Apostles: 
Thomas  E.  McKay,  Clifford  E.  Young, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Alma  Sonne,  EIRay  L.  Christiansen, 
John  Longden,  Hugh  B.  Brown,  and 
Sterling  W.  Sill. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy: 
Levi  Edgar  Young,  Antoine  R.  Ivins, 
Oscar  A.  Kirkham,  Seymour  Dilworth 
Young,  Milton  R.  Hunter,  Bruce  R. 
McConkie,  and  Marion  Duff  Hanks. 

Presiding  Bishopric:  Joseph  L.  Wirth- 
lin,  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  and  Carl  W. 
Buehner. 

General  Officers  and  Other 
Authorities  Present 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder:  Jo- 
seph Fielding  Smith,  and  as  assistants, 
A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley*. 

Members  of  the  General  Welfare 
Committee,   Church  Welfare   Program. 

Members  of  the  Church  Board  of  Edu- 
cation and  Administrator  Church  Board 
of  Education,  Directors  and  Associate 
Directors  of  Institutes,  and  Seminary  In- 
structors. 

Presidents  of  Stakes  and  their  Coun- 
selors, Presidents  of  Temples,  Patriarchs, 


High  Priests,  Seventies,  Elders,  General, 
Stake,  and  Ward  officers  of  Auxiliary 
Associations,  etc.,  from  all  parts  of  the 
Church. 

Mission  Presidents:  Richard  L.  Evans, 
Temple  Square,  Salt  Lake  City;  Henry 
D.  Taylor,  California;  J.  Earl  Lewis, 
Canadian;  Edgar  L.  Wagner,  Central 
American;  Henry  A.  Smith,  Central 
Atlantic  States;  Alvin  R.  Dyer,  Central 
States;  M.  Ross  Richards,  East  Central 
States;  Theodore  C.  Jacobsen,  Eastern 
States;  Reuel  E.  Christensen,  Great 
Lakes;  Legrand  F.  Smith,  Gulf  States; 
Claudious  Bowman,  Mexican;  Junius  M. 
Jackson,  New  England;  G.  Eugene  Eng- 
land, North  Central  States;  J.  Leonard 
Love,  Northern  California;  Joseph  T. 
Bentley,  Northern  Mexican;  Richard  C. 
Stratford,  Northern  States;  Douglas  H. 
Driggs,  Northwestern  States;  Berkeley 
L.  Bunker,  Southern  States;  Alfred  E. 
Rohner,  Southwest  Indian;  Harold  I. 
Bowman,  Spanish- American;  George  F. 
Simmons,  West  Central  States;  Moroni 
M.  Larson,  Western  Canadian;  and  Al- 
bert Lewis  Elggren,  Western  States. 


*Preston  Nibley  was  sustained  in  this 
Conference  as  Assistant  Church  His- 
torian. 


FIRST  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


The  opening  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence commenced  promptly  at  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Friday,  April  5,  1957,  in  the  great 
Tabernacle,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  furnished  the  choral 
music  for  this  session. 

President  McKay  made  the  following 
introductory  remarks: 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

To  the  large  audience  assembled  in 
the  Tabernacle,  the  overflow  gathering 
in  the  Assembly  Hall  and  Barratt  Hall, 
and  to  all  those  listening  in  over  radio 
and  television,  in  behalf  of  the  First 
Presidency,  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and 
other  General  Authorities,  we  bid  you 
a  hearty  welcome  to  this,  the  One  Hun- 
dred Twenty-Seventh  Annual  Confer- 
ence of  the  Church. 

The  services  this  morning  are  being 
broadcast  and  televised  over  KSL-TV 
Channel  5,  Salt  Lake  City,  and  are  being 
heard  over  Radio  Station  KSL,  and  by 
special  arrangements  over  three  televi- 
sion stations  in  Idaho.  They  are  like- 
wise being  heard  over  nine  radio  sta- 
tions in  Utah  and  Nevada.  The  names 
of  these  stations  have  already  been  an- 
nounced to  the  television  and  radio 
audiences.  We  desire  most  apprecia- 
tively to  express  our  gratitude  to  these 
various  radio  and  television  stations  for 
their  courtesy  in  making  available  their 
time  and  facilities  for  these  broadcasts. 
It  is  truly  a  great  service. 

To  those  who  are  assembled  in  per- 
son, and  to  the  untold  thousands  com- 
prising the  television  and  radio  audi- 
ences, we  repeat  our  hearty  welcome, 
and  pray  that  our  souls  may  be  uplifted 
and  inspired  by  assembling  together  in 
this  great  Conference  of  the  Church.  We 
greet  the  young  people  and  their  leaders 
from  the  Brigham  Young  University  who 
are  here  to  furnish  music  for  us.  It  is 
a  joy  to  have  you  folks  present. 

We  note  these  beautiful  calla  lilies  and 
daffodils.    For  the  eleventh  consecutive 


year  the  Oakland-Berkeley  Stake  high 
priests'  quorum  has  graciously  furnished 
us  flowers  to  beautify  this  building  dur- 
ing the  sessions  of  Conference.  These 
calla  lilies  are  messengers  of  their  af- 
fection and  loyal  support.  We  thank 
the  members  of  the  Oakland-Berkeley 
Stake  for  this  loving  service.  These 
beautiful  daffodils  have  come  from  the 
Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival,  Inc., 
through  the  Tacoma  Stake.  We  also 
thank  these  people  for  their  remem- 
brance. From  the  Phoenix  and  East 
Phoenix  Stakes,  we  have  flowers  which 
have  been  plucked  from  a  profusion  of 
beautiful  spring  flowers  which  are  now 
in  full  bloom  in  Arizona.  The  stocks 
are  especially  beautiful.  We  wish  to 
express  our  thanks  to  President  Junius 
E.  Driggs  and  President  David  E.  Hey- 
wood  and  the  members  of  the  Church 
in  that  area  for  this  fine  and  thoughtful 
remembrance.  The  Bird  of  Paradise 
flowers  have  come  from  the  Los  Angeles 
Temple  grounds.  Elder  A.  Raymond 
Summers  brought  them  with  him.  We 
acknowledge  the  receipt  also  of  flowers 
sent  by  individuals,  and  thank  them  for 
their  remembrance. 

We  have  telegrams  from  mission  presi- 
dents who  cannot  be  here,  and  notice 
from  servicemen — former  missionaries — 
from  Fort  Bliss,  Texas.  They  will  arrive 
here  this  morning  for  this  session.  We 
welcome  them.  Down  in  New  Zealand 
President  Ballif  sends  the  following: 
"At  the  time  of  April  Conference  our 
thoughts  are  definitely  turned  to  the 
great  meetings  that  occur  at  the  center 
stake  of  the  Church.  The  missionaries, 
both  proselyting  and  labor  missionaries, 
together  with  all  the  Saints  in  New 
Zealand,  join  in  sending  Aloha  Nui  to 
all  assembled,  and  assure  you  of  our 
faith  and  prayers  for  the  health  and 
well-being  of  our  leadership  and  the 
continued  progress  of  the  Church.  We 
are  translating  our  testimonies  into  an 
intensive  missionary  program,  and  the 
completion  of  a  great  building  project 
for  which  we  express  our  gratitude  to  all 
of  the  members  of  the  Church."  Ariel 
S.  Ballif,  Mission  President. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

I  wish  to  announce  also  that  we  have 
greetings  from  others,  but  time  will  not 
permit  us  to  read  them.  Please  take 
note,  temple  presidents,  that  there  will 
be  a  meeting  of  all  temple  presidents 
in  the  annex  of  the  Salt  Lake  Temple 
Sunday,  April  7,  at  4:30  p.m. 

We  acknowledge  the  presence  of  the 
following  distinguished  visitors, — there 
may  be  others  whom  we  cannot  see: 
Brother  Ezra  Taft  Benson,  a  member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  and  also  a 
member  of  the  Cabinet  of  the  United 
States  Government;  Lamont  Toronto, 
Secretary  of  State;  Adiel  F.  Stewart, 
Mayor  of  Salt  Lake  City;  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson,  president  of  Brigham  Young 
University;  President  A.  Ray  Olpin  of 
the  University  of  Utah;  President  John 
L.  Clarke  of  Ricks  College;  President 
Arthur  F.  Bruhn  of  Dixie  College;  Dr. 
Elliott  Cameron,  director  of  Snow  Col- 
lege; Dr.  M.  Lynn  Bennion,  superin- 
tendent of  Salt  Lake  City  Schools.  All 
are  welcome,  and  we  trust  that  you  will 
share  in  the  spiritual  experience  which 
we  all  hope  to  enjoy  during  the  coming 
Conference. 

The  opening  song  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses 
will  be,  "He  Watching  Over  Israel." 

I  wish  to  acknowledge  the  presence 


First  Day 

also  of  the  mission  presidents  in  the 
United  States,  Mexico,  and  Canada,  all 
of  whom  are  present;  also  the  presi- 
dencies of  stakes,  bishoprics  of  wards, 
from  all  nearby  states  and  countries. 

After  the  Chorus  sings,  "He  Watching 
Over  Israel,"  the  invocation  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Albert  Leland  Bott,  presi- 
dent of  the  Mount  Ogden  Stake. 

The  Chorus  will  now  sing. 

Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  Norman 
Gulbrandsen  conducting,  "He  Watching 
Over  Israel." 

Albert  Leland  Bott,  president  of  the 
Mount  Ogden  Stake,  offered  the  invo- 
cation. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
President  Albert  Leland  Bott  of  the 
Mount  Ogden  Stake.  The  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Chorus  will 
now  sing,  "O  How  Lovely  Was  the 
Morning,"  arranged  by  Elder  Crawford 
Gates,  conducted  by  Elder  Norman 
Gulbrandsen. 

The  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses  sang,  "O,  How  Lovely 
Was  The  Morning." 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters,  this 
is  one  of  the  most  humbling  expe- 
riences of  my  life.  In  anticipation 
of  this  moment  I  have  spent  many 
hours  of  thought  and  many  hours  of 
prayer.  I  think  there  is  no  experience 
in  the  world  that  makes  one  of  the 
General  Authorities,  or  any  man  who 
holds  the  priesthood,  feel  so  dependent 
upon  inspiration,  as  standing  before  a 
vast  audience  of  members  of  the 
Church.  I  do  pray  for  your  sympathetic 
attention,  and  for  the  guidance  of  the 
Holy  Spirit.  It  is  a  joy  to  meet  with 
you,  notwithstanding  the  sense  of  re- 
sponsibility. 

I  have  chosen  as  a  text,  to  indicate  a 
line  of  thought:  "Not  every  one  that 
saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall  enter 
into   the  kingdom  of   heaven;  but   he 


that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father  which 
is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  7:21.) 

The  thought  is,  as  expressed  by  James: 
"But  be  ye  doers  of  the  word,  and  not 
hearers  only."  (James  1:22,  italics 
added.)  That  applies  particularly  to 
each  individual.  Salvation  is  an  indi- 
vidual affair.  We  are  not  saved  as  con- 
gregations, nor  as  groups,  but  we  are 
saved  as  we  come  into  the  world  as 
individuals,  and  the  Lord's  purpose  is 
to  save  the  individual,  each  being  pre- 
cious in  his  sight. 

Before  commenting  further  upon  the 
theme,  I  desire  to  express  commendation 
for  the  progress  made  by  the  Church 
and  individual  groups  during  the  last 
six  months  and  during  the  past  year. 

This  has  been  another  prosperous  year 
for  the  Church.     Increased   faith   and 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


more  active  participation  in  Church 
activity  are  evidenced  almost  weekly  by 
the  reports  of  the  General  Authorities  of 
their  assigned  visits  throughout  the 
stakes  and  missions.  Some  illustrative 
facts  follow: 

1.  Regarding  Sacrament  Meetings: 
Attendance  at  Sacrament  meetings  dur- 
ing 1956  is  the  highest  yet  attained  in 
the  Church — 15,000  more  people  at- 
tended last  year  than  in  1955,  and  that 
was  the  highest  percentage  of  attend- 
ance to  date.  From  1945  to  1955  there 
has  been  a  gradual  increase  of  attend- 
ance at  Sacrament  meetings  of  eleven 
percent. 

2.  Regarding  Tithes  and  Offerings: 
Greater  devotion  is  evident,  also,  in  the 
increase  of  tithes  and  offerings.  It  ap- 
pears that  a  larger  proportion  of  the 
members  are  contributing  a  larger  pro- 
portion of  their  incomes,  the  result  being 
that  tithes  and  offerings  have  increased 
during  recent  years  substantially  more 
than  the  growth  in  membership  and  the 
indicated  increase  in  average  incomes  of 
the  Saints.  Those  two  items  point  to 
increased  spirituality,  the  very  object  of 
our  organization. 

3.  Regarding  the  Welfare  Plan:  We 
are  grateful  for  the  progress  that  has 
been  made  in  the  welfare  plan.  Hun- 
dreds of  projects  have  been  established, 
and  bishops'  storehouses  equipped  to 
supply  in  a  helpful  and  dignified  man- 
ner the  needs  of  the  poor.  The  priest- 
hood generally  and  the  Relief  Society 
sisters  have  responded  to  this  important 
work.  We  are  especially  grateful  to  the 
members  of  the  general  Church  welfare 
committee,  who  have  given  direct  super- 
vision to  this  program  for  a  period  of 
over  twenty  years.  The  basic  concepts 
of  the  welfare  program  have  been 
tested  and  proved  to  be  sound. 

Nevertheless,  we  must  constantly  re- 
mind ourselves  of  the  primary  purpose 
of  the  plan,  which  is — First,  to  supply 
in  a  helpful  and  dignified  manner  food, 
clothing,  and  shelter  to  every  person 
so  in  need. 

Second,  to  assist  men  and  women  who, 
through  misfortune,  ill-luck,  or  disaster, 
find  themselves  without  gainful  employ- 
ment, to  become  once  again  self-sup- 
porting. 

Third,  to  increase  among  the  members 
of   the  Church  the   true  spirit   of  the 


brotherhood  of  Christ,  having  in  mind 
in  all  their  service  the  divine  saying, 
"Inasmuch  as  ye  have  done  it  unto  one 
of  the  least  of  these  my  brethren,  ye 
have  done  it  unto  me."  (Matt.  25:40.) 

4.  Missionary  Work:  In  1956  there 
were  23,923  baptisms  performed  in  for- 
eign and  stake  missions,  which  is  an 
increase  of  nine  percent  over  the  previous 
year. 

5.  Schools  in  Polynesia:  I  am  sure  you 
will  be  interested  in  the  progress  of  the 
schools  in  Polynesia.  The  New  Zea- 
land College  will  be  finished  and  ready 
for  opening  in  February  1958.  It  is 
composed  of  an  administration  building, 
a  student  center  building,  which  is  made 
up  of  two  full-scale  gymnasiums,  cafe- 
teria, kitchen,  student  center,  lounge, 
swimming  pool,  locker  rooms,  and  an 
auditorium  combined  with  the  gym- 
nasium which  will  seat  4500  people. 
There  are  five  classroom  wings  which 
will  accommodate  1000  day  students, 
three  girls'  dormitories  and  three  boys' 
dormitories,  accommodating  600  stu- 
dents. I  will  not  go  into  further  detail, 
but  I  do  wish  to  express  a  word  of  com- 
mendation to  those  who  are  working 
down  there.  I  should  name  them,  but 
there  is  one  man  and  his  wife,  particu- 
larly, who  deserve  commendation,  and 
that  is  Brother  George  R.  Biesinger  and 
his  sweet  wife.  He  has  left  his  business 
here  and  devoted  years  to  this  project, 
and  will  continue  to  do  so  until  the 
completion  of  the  temple  and  the  com- 
pletion of  these  schools. 

In  Samoa,  there  are  new  additions  to 
the  Pesega  School  in  Western  Samoa. 
The  school  is  completed  also  at  Vaiola, 
Savaii,  Samoa,  and  one  at  Sauniatu, 
Samoa.  Another  is  now  under  construc- 
tion at  Mapusago,  Samoa. 

In  Tonga  at  the  Liahona  College,  two 
large  wings  to  the  boys'  and  girls'  dormi- 
tories, a  new  classroom  wing,  a  new 
dining  hall  with  kitchen  facilities  com- 
bined, and  dormitories  for  the  men  and 
women  teachers  are  under  construction. 

In  Hawaii,  the  new  Junior  College 
now  being  built  at  Laie,  Oahu,  will  ac- 
commodate not  fewer  than  750  students. 
The  large  shop  building  and  the  main 
building  are  already  nearing  comple- 
tion. 

All  of  these  school  buildings  of  the 
South  Pacific  are  being  built  by  labor 


6 

Friday,  April  5 

missionaries  called  from  America,  and 
local  labor  missionaries  called  from  their 
respective  homelands.  The  work  is  go- 
ing forward  in  a  completely  satisfactory 
manner,  and  in  all  areas  is  on  schedule. 
Commendation  and  appreciation  are  ex- 
tended to  the  local  labor  missionaries 
and  to  the  Saints  who  contribute  to  the 
sustenance  of  these  labor  missionaries  in 
this  vast  building  program,  as  well  as 
to  our  labor  missionary  supervisors 
called  from  America. 

6.  Regarding  Our  Temples:  Near 
Auckland,  New  Zealand,  on  December 
22,  1956,  another  milestone  in  Church 
history  was  passed.  Elder  Hugh  B. 
Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  under  appointment  from  the 
First  Presidency,  conducted  the  services 
and  officiated  at  the  cornerstone  laying 
ceremonies  for  the  New  Zealand  Temple. 

Cornerstone  laying  ceremonies  for  the 
London  Temple  will  be  held  at  New- 
chapel,  Surrey  County,  England,  May 
11,  1957.  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  officiate  at 
the  ceremonies.  The  ground  for  this 
temple  was  broken  August  27,  1955. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  to  partake  of 
the  spirit  of  faith  and  activity  in  the 
Church  is  inspiring.  Membership 
therein  is  at  once  a  privilege  and  a 
blessing. 

Looking  around  us,  we  are  con- 
vinced that  we  are  living  in  an  era  of 
great  progress,  embracing  wonderful  in- 
ventions and  scientific  discoveries.  Man's 
search  for  the  unknown  has  led  him 
out  of  the  world  of  matter  literally  into 
the  realm  of  space.  He  splits  the  atom, 
sets  off  horrifying  hydrogen  explosions, 
flies  through  space  at  a  speed  faster  than 
sound,  is  taking  steps  to  build  satellites 
to  accompany  the  earth  in  its  revolu- 
tions. Many  of  the  imaginations  of 
Jules  Verne  are  now  commonplace  reali- 
ties. Flying  to  the  moon  is  an  achieve- 
ment now  considered  possible. 

The  earth  itself,  figuratively  speaking, 
is  shrinking.  The  railroad,  automobiles, 
airplanes,  have  made  New  York  and 
San  Francisco  next-door  neighbors,  and 
Greenland  and  the  South  Pole  only  a 
few  days  apart! 

But  with  all  these  things  comes  in- 
creased responsibility  to  every  indi- 
vidual, man,  woman,  and   child.    New 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

inventions  bring  greater  opportunities, 
but  demand  more  activity,  more  strength 
of  character.  Many  years  ago  you  and 
I  read  the  following  comment  by  Roger 
W.  Babson,  the  great  statistician: 

"Although  the  airplane  opens  up 
boundless  opportunities,  it  also  threatens 
limitless  perils.  All  depends  upon 
whether  we  can  match  this  flood  of  new 
material  powers  with  an  equal  gain  in 
spiritual  forces.  The  coming  genera- 
tion can  see  in  a  minute  more  than  the 
former  generation  could  see  in  a  week. 
The  coming  generation  can  outhear  and 
outtravel  the  former  generation.  Horse- 
power has  expanded  beyond  all  dreams. 
But  what  about  manpower?  What 
about  spiritual  power,  and  the  power 
of  judgment,  discretion,  and  self-control? 
Unless  there  is  a  development  of  char- 
acter equal  to  this  enlargement  of 
physical  forces  there  is  sure  trouble 
ahead.  Twenty-five  years  ago  an  intoxi- 
cated man  might  tip  the  buggy  over,  but 
commonly  the  old  horse  would  bring 
him  home.  Today  a  driver  under  the 
influence  of  liquor  maims  and  kills. 
Tomorrow,  therefore,  is  something  to 
ponder  over.  Without  moral  progress 
in  pace  with  physical  progress  the  air- 
plane will  merely  make  dissipation 
more  disastrous,  immorality  more  wide- 
spread, and  crime  more  efficient.  One 
result  of  the  automobile  has  been  to  put 
hell  on  wheels;  the  airplane  will  put 
hell  on  wings  unless  righteousness,  too, 
is  speeded  up.  On  the  development  of 
character  depends  whether  the  airplane 
shall  bring  prosperity  or  calamity." 

Along  this  same  line  also  are  the 
comments  of  Mr.  A.  Cressy  Morrison, 
eminent  scientist  who,  fearing  "a  period 
of  regression  for  true  civilization,"  says: 
"If  we  have  read  the  signs  of  the  times 
correctly,  or  even  if  we  have  exaggerated 
some  of  the  symptoms,  the  only  salva- 
tion for  mankind  will  be  found  in  re- 
ligion. However,  it  must  be  a  sound 
Christian  religion,  vitalized  by  its  own 
primitive  ideals;  aware  of  the  progress 
of  science,  rid  of  prejudice  against  fair 
speculative  intelligence,  and  soaring 
high  above  frontiers.  Never  in  her  two 
thousand  years  has  the  Church  had  a 
more  urgent  call  and  a  nobler  oppor- 
tunity to  fulfill  her  obligations  as  the 
comforter  and  guide  of  humanity."  That 
is  from  Man  Does  Not  Stand  Alone  (p. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


264),  a  book  I  commend  to  all  earnest 
seekers  after  truth. 

Well,  as  our  text  says,  "Not  every  one 
that  saith  unto  me,  Lord,  Lord,  shall 
enter  into  the  kingdom  of  heaven;  but 
he  that  doeth  the  will  of  my  Father 
which  is  in  heaven."  (Matt.  7:21.) 

Too  many  people  in  the  world  are 
sitting  and  giving  only  lip  service  to 
God;  too  many  have  forgotten  him;  too 
many  are  denying  him;  too  many  are 
crying,  "Lord,  Lord,"  but  fail  to  follow 
his  principles.  Many  of  us  through 
selfishness  are  lingering  near  the  edge 
of  the  animal  jungle  where  Nature's 
law  demands  us  to  do  everything  with 
self  in  view.  Self-preservation  is  the 
first  law  of  mortal  life,  but  Jesus  says, 
"He  that  findeth  his  life  shall  lose  it; 
and  he  that  loseth  his  life  for  my  sake 
shall  find  it."  (Ibid.,  10:39.) 

The  first  experience  of  our  Savior  after 
his  baptism,  and  after  having  been 
acknowledged  by  his  Father  as  his  Only 
Begotten  Son,  was  to  triumph  over 
selfishness  on  the  Mount  of  Temptation. 

Applicable  today  is  Paul's  admoni- 
tion to  the  Philippians,  given  over  nine- 
teen hundred  years  ago: 

"Wherefore,  my  beloved  .  .  .  [and  that 
branch  in  Philippi  was  the  first  branch 
in  Europe]  work  out  your  own  salva- 
tion with  fear  and  trembling.  For  it 
is  God  which  worketh  in  you  both  to 
will  and  to  do  of  his  good  pleasure. 

"Do  all  things  without  murmurings 
and  disputings: 

"That  ye  may  be  blameless  and  harm- 
less, the  sons  of  God,  without  rebuke, 
in  the  midst  of  a  crooked  and  perverse 
nation,  among  whom  ye  shine  as  lights 
in  the  world."  (Phil.  2:12-15.) 

An  outstanding  doctrine  of  the  Church 
is  that  each  individual  carries  the  re- 
sponsibility to  work  out  his  own 
salvation,  and  salvation  is  a  process  of 
gradual  development.  The  Church  does 
not  accept  the  doctrine  that  a  mere 
murmured  belief  in  Jesus  Christ  is  all 
that  is  necessary.  A  man  may  say  he 
believes,  but  if  he  does  nothing  to  make 
that  belief  or  faith  a  moving  power  to  do, 
to  accomplish,  to  produce  soul  growth, 
his  professing  will  avail  him  nothing. 
"Work  out  your  own  salvation"  is  an 
exhortation  to  demonstrate  by  activity, 
by  thoughtful,  obedient  effort  the 
reality  of  faith.    But  this  must  be  done 


with  a  consciousness  that  absolute  de- 
pendence upon  self  may  produce  pride 
and  weakness  that  will  bring  failure. 
With  "fear  and  trembling"  we  should 
seek  the  strength  and  grace  of  God 
for  inspiration  to  obtain  the  final 
victory. 

To  work  out  one's  salvation  is  not 
to  sit  idly  by  dreaming  and  yearning 
for  God  miraculously  to  thrust  bounte- 
ous blessings  into  our  laps.  It  is  to 
perform  daily,  hourly,  momentarily,  if 
necessary,  the  immediate  task  or  duty 
at  hand,  and  to  continue  happily  in 
such  performance  as  the  years  come 
and  go,  leaving  the  fruits  of  such  labors 
either  for  self  or  for  others  to  be  be- 
stowed as  a  just  and  beneficent  Father 
may  determine. 

I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  scripture 
that  declares:  "by  grace  are  ye  saved 
through  faith;  and  that  not  of  your- 
selves: it  is  the  gift  of  God."  (Ephesians 
2:8.)  That  is  absolutely  true,  for  man 
in  his  taking  upon  himself  mortality 
was  impotent  to  save  himself.  When 
left  to  grope  in  a  natural  state,  he 
would  have  become,  and  did  become,  so 
we  are  told  in  modern  scripture,  "carnal, 
sensual,  and  devilish,  by  nature."  (Alma 
42:10.)  But  the  Lord,  through  his 
grace,  appeared  to  man,  gave  him  the 
gospel  or  eternal  plan  whereby  he  might 
rise  above  the  carnal  and  selfish  things 
of  life  and  obtain  spirtual  perfection. 
But  he  must  rise  by  his  own  efforts  and 
he  must  walk  by  faith. 

"He  who  would  ascend  the  stairway 
leading  upward  to  eternal  life  must 
tread  it  step  by  step  from  the  base  stone 
to  the  summit  of  its  flight.  Not  a  single 
stair  can  be  missed,  not  one  duty 
neglected,  if  the  climber  would  avoid 
danger  and  delay  and  arrive  with  all 
safety  and  expedition  at  the  topmost 
landing  of  the  celestial  exaltation." 
The  responsibility  is  upon  each  indi- 
vidual to  choose  the  path  of  righteous- 
ness, of  faithfulness  and  duty  to  fellow 
men.  If  he  choose  otherwise  and  as  a 
result  meets  failure,  misery,  and  death, 
he  alone  is  to  blame.  President  Brig- 
ham  Young,  speaking  on  this  thought, 
once  said: 

"If  Brother  Brigham  should  take  a 
wrong  track  and  be  shut  out  of  the  king- 
dom of  heaven,  no  person  will  be  to 
blame  but  Brother  Brigham.     I  am  the 


8 

Friday,  April  5 

only  being  in  heaven,  earth,  or  hell, 
that  can  be  blamed.  This  will  equally 
apply  to  every  Latter-day  Saint.  Salva- 
tion is  an  individual  operation.  I  am 
the  only  person  that  can  possibly  save 
myself.  When  salvation  is  sent  to  me, 
I  can  reject  or  receive  it.  In  receiving  it, 
I  yield  implicit  obedience  and  submis- 
sion to  its  great  Author  throughout  my 
life,  and  to  those  whom  he  shall  ap- 
point to  instruct  me;  in  rejecting  it,  I 
follow  the  dictates  of  my  own  will  in 
preference  to  the  will  of  my  Creator." 
In  thus  emphasizing  individual  effort, 
I  am  not  unmindful  of  the  necessity  of 
co-operation. 

"There   is   a   destiny  which  makes   us 

brothers, 
None  lives  to  self  alone; 
All  that  we  send  into  the  lives  of  others 
Comes  back  into  our  own." 

— Edwin  Markham* 

A  single,  struggling  individual  may  be 
stalled  with  his  heavy  load  even  as  he 
begins  to  climb  the  hill  before  him.  To 
reach  the  top  unaided  is  an  impossi- 
bility. With  a  little  help  from  fellow 
travelers,  quorums,  or  wards,  he  makes 
the  grade  and  goes  on  his  way  in  grati- 
tude and  rejoicing. 

This  is  in  harmony  with  the  teachings 
of  Jesus,  "who  sought  to  perfect  society, 
not  by  popular  agitation  or  by  reor- 
ganization, but  by  perfecting  the  indi- 
vidual. He  recognized  the  fatal  fallacy 
in  the  dream  of  those  who  hoped  to 
make  a  perfect  state  out  of  imperfect 
individuals.  The  ideal  social  state, 
which  he  described  as  the  kingdom  of 
God,  is  a  commonwealth  in  which  all 
men  are  united  and  governed  by  a  com- 
manding love  both  for  God  and  for 
their  neighbors." 

The  present-day  turmoil  and  bitter 
strivings  threaten  to  undermine  basic 
foundations  of  Christian  relationship. 
Liberty,  freedom  of  speech,  self-govern- 
ment, faith  in  God,  and  particularly 
faith  in  the  efficacy  of  the  restored  gos- 
pel of  Jesus  Christ,  are  facing  a  bom- 
bardment from  the  ranks  of  error  such 
as  the  world  has  seldom  if  ever  wit- 
nessed. 

Too  many  men  quail  under  the  im- 
pending onslaught,  and  cry  vainly, 
"What  can  we  do?"  To  members  of 
the   Church,   to   men   everywhere,   the 

*Used  by  permission. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

Church  answers,  "Keep  the  command- 
ments of  God,"  as  named  specifically, 
for  example,  by  the  Prophet  Nephi: 

".  .  .  God  hath  given  a  commandment 
that  all  men  should  have  charity,  which 
charity  is  love.  And  except  they  should 
have  charity  they  were  nothing.  .  .  . 

"And  again,  the  Lord  God  hath  com- 
manded that  men  should  not  murder; 
that  they  should  not  lie;  that  they 
should  not  steal;  that  they  should  not 
take  the  name  of  the  Lord  their  God 
in  vain;  that  they  should  not  envy; 
that  they  should  not  have  malice;  that 
they  should  not  contend  one  with  an- 
other; that  they  should  not  commit 
whoredoms;  and  that  they  should  do 
none  of  these  things;  for  whoso  doeth 
them  shall  perish."  (2  Nephi  26:30,  32.) 
I  commend  this  chapter  to  you. 

Avoidance  of  Intoxicating  Liquor:  In 
this  dispensation  the  Lord  has  warned 
mankind  against  the  use  of  intoxicating 
liquors.  In  violation  of  that  warning 
alcoholism  is  now  a  national  problem. 
Americans  spend  the  staggering  sum  of 
more  than  nine  billion  dollars  every 
year  for  alcoholic  beverages.  In  addi- 
tion, lost  wages,  crime,  and  accidents 
traced  to  alcoholism  cost  Americans  an- 
other $667,000,000  a  year.  (Facts  given 
by  Dr.  Chester  A.  Winyard  in  "Alco- 
hol and  Human  Tissues."  See  Deseret 
News,  February  10,  1954.) 

"Alcoholism  has  become  a  major  pub- 
lic health  problem,  for  it  is  155  times 
more  prevalent  than  polio,  11  times 
more  prevalent  than  tuberculosis,  and 
6  times  more  prevalent  than  cancer.  If 
the  number  of  alcoholics  continues  to 
increase  during  the  next  ten  years  as 
it  has  during  the  past  ten  years,  alco- 
holism will  soon  affect  every  family  in 
the  United  States."  So  says  a  pamphlet 
published  by  the  National  Committee 
for  the  Prevention  of  Alcoholism,  Wash- 
ington, D.  C,  July  22-August  2,  1956. 

Over  a  hundred  years  ago  the  Lord 
said  through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
that  "tobacco  ...  is  not  good  for  man." 
(D  &  C  89:8.)  Luther  Burbank  in  the 
"Dearborn  Independent"  says: 

"How  much  would  you  know  about 
tobacco  if,  upon  the  tombstone  of  every- 
one killed  by  it  were  inscribed,  'Killed 
by  tobacco'? 

"You  would  know  a  lot  more  about 
it  than  you  do  now,  but  you  would  not 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


know  all,  because  tobacco  does  more 
than  kill.  It  half-kills.  It  has  its 
victims  in  the  cemeteries  and  in  the 
streets.  It  is  bad  enough  to  be  dead, 
but  it  is  a  question  if  it  is  not  some- 
times worse  to  be  half-dead, — to  be 
nervous,  irritable,  unable  to  sleep  well, 
with  efficiency  cut  in  two  and  vitality 
ready  to  snap  at  the  first  great  strain. 
This  seems  like  exaggeration.  It  isn't! 
It  is  well  within  the  truth. 

"Let  me  tell  you  how  tobacco  kills. 
Smokers  do  not  all  drop  dead  around 
the  cigar  lighters  in  tobacco  stores. 
They  go  away  and,  years  later,  die  of 
something  else.  From  the  tobacco 
trust's  point  of  view,  that  is  one  of  the 
finest  things  about  tobacco.  The  vic- 
tims do  not  die  on  the  premises,  even 
when  sold  the  worst  cigars.  They  go 
away,  and  when  they  die,  the  doctors 
certify  that  they  died  of  something  else, 
— pneumonia,  heart  disease,  typhoid 
fever,  or  what  not. 

"In  other  words,  tobacco  kills  in- 
directly and  escapes  the  blame,"  con- 
firming what  the  Prophet  Joseph  said 
before,  "tobacco  ...  is  not  good  for 
man." 

"Approximately  38,000,000  Ameri- 
cans are  regular  cigaret  smokers,  al- 
though a  million  and  a  half  have  quit 
smoking  entirely  in  the  last  eighteen 
months,  according  to  estimates  based 
on  a  survey  made  by  the  US  Bureau  of 
the  Census  for  the  National  Cancer 
Institute  of  the  Public  Health  Service, 
Department  of  Health,  Education, 
and  Welfare.  The  38,000,000  cigaret 
smokers  include  25,000,000  men  and 
13,000,000  women."  (See  "America's 
Smoking  Habits,"  The  Improvement 
Era,  April   1957.) 

In  the  Church  no  teacher  who  in- 
dulges in  smoking  should  be  permitted 
to  teach  our  children  in  Primary  and 
Sunday  School.     Through  the  Prophet 


Joseph  the  Lord  gave  the  Word  of 
Wisdom  to  all.  It  is  time,  in  the  light 
of  revelation  and  the  discoveries  of  sci- 
ence, that  this  Church  upholds  its  prin- 
ciples regarding  these  things. 

The  best  way  to  prevent  indulgence 
in  these  harmful  habits  is  to  refuse  to 
tamper  with  them.  Let  each  youth 
decline  the  first  invitation  to  indulge, 
remembering  that  "The  soul  that  is 
worth  the  honor  of  earth,  is  the  soul 
that  resists  desire." 

"Wherefore,  now  let  every  man  learn 
his  duty,  and  to  act  in  the  office  in 
which  he  is  appointed,  in  all  diligence. 

"He  that  is  slothful  shall  not  be 
counted  worthy  to  stand,  and  he  that 
learns  not  his  duty  and  shows  himself 
not  approved  shall  not  be  counted 
worthy  to  stand."  (D  &  C  107:99-100.) 

The  Church  is  thriving,  as  indicated 
in  my  opening  remarks.  Let  us  rejoice 
in  her  progress.  To  see  the  discoveries 
of  science  and  to  be  the  recipients  of 
inventions  and  new  appliances  as  they 
relieve  daily  life  of  former  drudgery 
give  hope  and  encouragement;  but  to 
overcome  difficulties,  to  control  temper, 
to  subdue  and  conquer  passion,  in  what- 
ever form,  to  feel  in  one's  heart  a  grow- 
ing love  for  truth  and  for  one's  fellow 
men,  to  sense  a  nearness  to  God  our 
Father,  and  to  recognize  the  whisperings 
of  his  voice  through  the  Holy  Spirit, 
fill  the  soul  with  joy  and  make  life 
worth  living. 

That  obedience  to  the  principles  of 
the  restored  gospel  gives  to  man  these 
blessings,  I  testify  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.     Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  next  speaker  will  be  Elder  Clif- 
ford E.  Young,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Richard 
L.  Evans. 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1  realize,  my  brethren  and  sisters,  that 
every  week  we  meet  with  people 
whom  you  represent.  You  are  a  cross 
section  of  the  stakes  and  the  missions 
where  we  from  time  to  time  visit.    You 


are  always  so  kind  and  considerate  of 
our  every  need.  Yet  I  do  not  know 
why  I  should  feel  timid  as  I  stand  here 
this  morning  to  attempt  to  say  just  a 
few  words,  and  especially  after  this  im- 


10 

Friday,  April  5 

pressive  address  by  President  McKay.  It 
is  a  challenging  position,  and  I  do  ask 
for  an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers. 
I  can  only  suggest  a  few  things  in 
the  short  time  allotted.  You  remember 
in  reading  the  eighth  chapter  of  John, 
that  Jesus  went  into  the  temple  and 
".  .  .  all  the  people  came  unto  him; 
and  he  sat  down,  and  taught  them." 
Then  the  scribes  and  the  Pharisees,  the 
doubting  scribes  and  Pharisees,  brought 
to  him  a  woman  taken  in  sin.  He  re- 
buked them  by  telling  them  if  they  were 
without  sin  they  could  condemn,  but 
they  had  no  right  to  condemn  unless 
they  were  without  sin.  (See  John  8.)  He 
was  reaffirming  the  truth  taught  to  his 
disciples  as  he  sat  with  them  on  the 
mount,  when  he  said: 

Judge  not,  that  ye  be  not  judged. 

For  with  what  judgment  ye  judge,  ye 
shall  be  judged:  and  with  what  measure 
ye  mete,  it  shall  be  measured  to  you  again. 
(Matt.  7:1-2.) 

Jesus  was  teaching  them  a  funda- 
mental truth.  He  was  not  condoning 
sin,  but  he  was  emphasizing  this  truth 
to  those  scribes  and  Pharisees  who  would 
trap  him,  who  would  question  whether 
or  not  he  accepted  the  law.  They  were 
not  concerned  about  the  sin;  they  were 
more  concerned  about  making  good  their 
own  argument  and  establishing  them- 
selves in  their  position  with  him,  because 
they  did  attempt  to  argue,  if  you  will 
read  the  chapter,  but  he  was  equal  to 
their  seeming  cleverness. 

Then  we  are  told  he  continued  to 
teach  them  that  he  was  "the  light  of  the 
world:  he  that  followeth  me  shall  not 
walk  in  darkness,  but  shall  have  the 
light  of  life."  (John  8:12.)  Then  many 
believed  and  to  those  who  believed,  he 
said: 

...  If  ye  continue  in  my  word,  then  are 
ye  my  disciples  indeed; 

And  ye  shall  know  the  truth,  and  the 
truth  shall  make  you  free.   (Ibid.,  8:31-32.) 

My  brethren  and  sisters,  this  brings 
so  forcibly  to  us  the  importance  of  the 
message  we  have  listened  to  this  morn- 
ing. We  have  heard  the  truth.  The 
truth  will  make  us  free  if  we  will  just 
permit  it  to. 

You  remember  that  when  the  Savior 
stood   before   Pilate,   Pilate   wanted  to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

set  the  Savior  free.  He  had  sent  him  to 
Herod,  but  Herod,  not  willing  to  take  the 
responsibility  other  than  to  scourge  him, 
to  mock  him,  had  sent  him  back  to 
Pilate.  Pilate,  impressed  that  there  was 
something  about  the  Nazarene  that  tran- 
scended human  power,  his  own  power  of 
understanding,  would  have  set  him  free. 
He  questioned  him,  and  among  the  ques- 
tions was,  "What  is  truth?"  (Ibid., 
18:38.)  There  is  no  record  of  the  an- 
swer. I  would  that  we  had  the  com- 
plete record.  Without  any  doubt  the 
Savior  did  answer  him.  But  in  this 
day  the  Savior  has  said: 

The  Spirit  of  truth  is  of  God.  I  am  the 
Spirit  of  truth,  and  John  bore  record  of  me, 
saying:  He  received  a  fulness  of  truth,  yea, 
even  of  all  truth; 

And  no  man  receiveth  a  fulness  unless 
he  keepeth  his  commandments. 

He  that  keepeth  his  commandments  re- 
ceiveth truth  and  light,  until  he  is  glori- 
fied in  truth  and  knoweth  all  things.  (D  &  C 
93:26-28.) 

We  have  heard  the  truth  this 
morning.  We  hear  it  from  this  pulpit 
conference  after  conference.  We  read 
about  it. 

Do  we  apply  it  in  our  lives?  If  we 
do,  then  we  sense  that  degree  of  free- 
dom to  which  we  apply  it,  and  there 
are  so  many  ways,  my  brethren  and 
sisters,  that  we  can  apply  it. 

We  have  it  exemplified  in  the  field  of 
science.  Human  suffering  is  being 
alleviated  by  the  unselfish  efforts  of  men 
and  women  who  are  devoting  their  time 
unselfishly,  trying  to  discover  the  causes 
of  disease  and  find  a  remedy. 

I  marvel  as  I  travel  about  in  meeting 
some  of  our  own  brethren,  great  men, 
devoting  their  time  unselfishly  in  the 
fields  of  science  whereby  they  may  re- 
lieve human  suffering,  trying  to  find 
truth,  that  mankind  may  be  free. 

You  know,  in  this  Church  we  have 
stake  presidents  who  devote  their  time 
generously  to  their  labors  in  their  stakes, 
and  yet  day  after  day  work  in  the  labora- 
tories, seeking  to  find  the  source  of  some 
of  the  diseases  that  so  far  have  baffled 
the  medical  world.  I  honor  them.  God 
bless  them  for  the  great  work  they  are 
doing. 

In  all  of  these  fields,  "know  the  truth." 
I  think  of  our  young  people — President 


ELDER  CLIFFORD  E.  YOUNG 


11 


McKay  has  touched  on  this  so  forcibly — 
what  it  would  mean  to  our  young  peo- 
ple if  they  could  avoid  some  of  these 
pitfalls,  if  they  could  know  the  truth 
and  would  live  the  truth. 

I  was  reading  recently  a  talk  by  the 
eminent  English  scientist  and  surgeon, 
Dr.  William  Osier.  He  has  gone  now — 
but  a  generation  ago  he  was  known  all 
over  the  world  for  his  great  work.  Eng- 
land claims  him;  she  knighted  him.  He 
was  born  in  Canada.  He  spent  a  good 
deal  of  time  in  this  country.  Some  of 
our  own  local  men  of  a  generation  ago 
knew  him  well.  He  spent  fifteen  years  at 
Johns  Hopkins.  In  a  talk  he  gave  before 
the  students  of  Yale  University  in  1913, 
his  thesis  was  to  "live  today  your  fullest, 
live  the  truth  today."  Never  mind  yes- 
terday, it  is  past.  You  cannot  do  much 
about  it.  But  you  can  live  today  and 
that  will  prepare  you  for  tomorrow. 

Among  other  things  he  cautioned  the 
men  to  whom  he  was  talking,  on  the 
excessive  use  of  liquor — he  might  have 
said  to  avoid  it  entirely — and  the  ex- 
cessive use  of  tobacco,  and  he  pointed 
out  the  evils  of  these  things  to  which 
Brother  McKay  has  alluded. 

"If  you  will  avoid  these,"  he  said, 
"You  will  have  a  clear  mind.  Your 
vision  will  be  clear  and  keen.  It  will 
add  to  your  happiness.  It  will  make 
today  a  better  day." 

I  would  that  we  could  emphasize  that 
among  our  own  people,  our  young  peo- 
ple especially,  to  help  them  to  live  to- 
day and  to  get  all  that  they  can  out  of 
life.  We  have  the  truth,  and  in  living 
it,  we  may  be  free. 

Now  there  is  one  more  thing — I  have 
mentioned  it  here  from  this  pulpit  be- 
fore, and  I  come  in  contact  with  it  so 
often  that  I  am  going  to  repeat  it.  I 
think  our  young  people,  as  they  start 
out  in  life,  should  exercise  caution.  We 
have  been  taught  from  this  pulpit  time 
and  time  again  to  avoid  obligations  that 
we  cannot  meet,  and  yet  many  of  our 
people  find  themselves  in  bondage. 
They  have  not  lived  the  truth,  hence 
they  are  not  free.  They  are  in  bond- 
age. All  young  boys  and  girls  who 
start  out  in  life  owe  it  to  themselves  and 
to  their  children,  just  as  fast  as  they 
can,  to  see  that  their  homes  are  their 


own.  I  know  it  is  a  struggle.  I  know 
from  my  own  experience,  and  I  know 
what  debt  means. 

Brigham  Young  warned  us  against 
debt.  And  we  heard  President  Grant 
from  this  pulpit  say  what  it  had  done 
for  him,  the  struggle  he  had  had,  but 
he  also  said  this,  against  the  counsel 
of  some  of  his  friends:  "I  never  wavered 
in  my  obligations  to  the  Lord  during 
it  all,  and  because  of  that  I  was  able 
to  pay  my  obligations."  And  he  prom- 
ised the  people  that  if  they  would  be 
true  to  their  tithes  and  their  offerings, 
not  excuse  themselves  on  the  ground 
of  debt,  they  would  be  able  to  be  free. 
I  accept  that  as  a  truth,  and  I  can  bear 
testimony  to  it,  my  brethren  and  sisters. 

So  this  "knowing  the  truth"  is  an 
everyday  principle.  It  is  a  principle  we 
can  live  every  day  in  our  lives.  It  has 
a  practical  application. 

Then  there  is  the  spiritual  side  of  it 
all.  When  Jesus  was  talking  to  his 
disciples,  he  was  also  reminding  them 
that  he  and  the  Father  were  one.  In 
this  same  chapter  to  which  I  referred,  he 
pointed  out  that  he  and  the  Father 
bore  witness  of  this  eternal  truth  that 
he  was  the  Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of 
the  world.  They  did  not  believe  it,  but 
it  was  an  eternal  truth  just  the  same. 

Think  what  that  means — to  know 
that  truth.  We  are  nearing  Easter, 
which  will  be  celebrated  with  all  the 
pageantry  and  tradition  typical  of  it. 
But  underlying  it  all  will  be  the  funda- 
mental truths  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ, 
the  Redeemer  of  the  world,  the  Savior; 
that  there  is  a  continuity  of  life;  that 
life  does  not  end  with  death.  What 
blessed  concepts!  And  they  are  true 
and  God  will  bear  witness  to  our  souls 
these  truths,  if  we  will  seek  to  know. 
He  has  given  us  the  way. 

The  Lord  help  us  that  we  may  know 
the  truth,  that  we  may  be  free,  I  humbly 
pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Clifford  E.  Young,  Assistant  to 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve,  has  just 
spoken  to  us.  Elder  Richard  L.  Evans 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be 
our  next  speaker. 


12 

Friday,  April  5 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 
Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


First  Day 


With  you,  my  brethren  and  sisters, 
I  have  been  moved  and  sobered 
and  satisfied  by  the  opening  address 
of  our  beloved  President,  and  his  utter- 
ance as  to  the  inescapable  importance 
of  personal  responsibility. 

Beyond  all  that  our  Savior  did  for 
us  in  his  saving  grace,  without  which 
there  would  be  no  hope  of  salvation  for 
any  of  us,  beyond  all  this,  it  is  clearly 
up  to  each  of  us,  in  the  freedom  God 
has  given  us,  and  in  the  right  and  re- 
sponsibility of  choice  which  he  has 
placed  everlastingly  before  us,  what  we 
will  do  with  our  lives. 

Our  President's  remarks  call  to  mind 
a  sentence  from,  I  think,  Viscount  John 
Morley,  in  which  he  said  that  "no  man 
can  climb  out  beyond  the  limitations 
of  his  own  character."  It  is  everlastingly 
and  basically  true:  No  man  can  rise 
above  the  limitations  of  his  own  char- 
acter. 

Sometimes  we  would  like  to  believe 
that  there  is  less  responsibility  upon  us 
than  there  is  for  the  outcome  of  our 
lives.  I  am  reminded  of  the  story  of  a 
small  lad  who  came  home  from  school 
and  accosted  his  father,  saying:  "Dad, 
here  is  my  report  card.  It's  bad  again. 
What  do  you  think  is  wrong  with  me? 
Heredity  or  environment?"  There  are 
some  other  alternatives  that  he  had  not 
thought  of!  (He  might  have  thought  of 
studying!) 

There  are  some  considerations  that 
all  of  us  must  soberly  think  of  in  ac- 
cepting personal  responsibility  for  the 
keeping  of  the  commandments,  for  the 
choices  we  make,  for  how  we  use  the 
freedom  God  has  given  us,  for  he  will 
not  force  any  of  us  to  become  what  we 
are  not  willing  to  pay  the  price  of  be- 
coming. 

Some  days  ago  I  spent  some  time  with 
a  young  man  who  was  troubled.  He 
did  not  like  the  way  our  Father  in 
heaven  was  running  the  world.  He  said, 
"We  need  to  know  more." 

Well,  I  agreed  with  him.  We  do 
need  to  know  more.  I  should  like  to 
know  all  the  answers.  I  am  sure  we  all 
would.  But,  I  said,  "Let  us  begin  with 
what  we  know.     I  think  we  can  agree 


that  there  are  some  things  we  do  know. 
What  are  we  doing  with  them?  Let 
us  begin  with  the  Ten  Commandments, 
and  also  the  two  great  commandments: 

Thou  shalt  love  the  Lord  thy  God  with 
all  thy  heart,  and  with  all  thy  soul,  and 
with  all  thy  mind. 

This  is  the  first  and  great  commandment. 

And  the  second  is  like  unto  it,  Thou 
shalt  love  thy  neighbour  as  thyself. 
(Matthew  22:37-39.) 

Do  you  know  anyone  who  is  keeping 
them  in  their  fulness?  Just  for  example, 
do  you  know  anyone  who  literally  and 
always  loves  his  neighbor  as  himself? 
I  agree  we  need  to  know  more,  but  also 
we  need  more  to  use  more  of  what  we 
do  know." 

The  Lord  has  set  up  the  objectives. 
He  has  given  us  a  few  simple  rules.  He 
has  given  us  freedom;  he  has  given  us 
the  right  of  choice,  and  what  we  shall 
become  will  depend,  beyond  his  saving 
grace,  on  what  we  do  with  what  we 
know. 

And  in  replying  to  this  young  man,  I 
could  not  refrain  from  observing  that 
even  though  I  were  to  agree  with  him 
that  there  are  some  things  I  would  do 
differently  from  my  point  of  view.  I 
reminded  him  that  we — he  and  I — 
cannot  make  a  worm,  and  we  cannot 
make  a  blade  of  grass,  and  who  were 
we  to  dictate  to  the  Creator  in  our  small 
wisdom? 

One  thing  he  was  troubled  about  was 
the  necessity  for  faith:  Why  could  he 
not  know  by  sight  or  sound  of  the  ex- 
istence of  God  himself.  "Why  can't  I 
see  him?  Why  doesn't  he  tell  these 
things  to  me?  Why  do  I  have  to  live 
by  faith?" 

There  are  people  who  have  not  had 
to  live  by  faith,  who  have  found  them- 
selves in  serious  trouble.  There  are 
those  to  whom  the  Lord  God  has  spoken, 
who  have  made  grievous  errors. 

Let  us  take  the  case  of  Lucifer,  who 
lived  with  his  Father.  He  did  not  have 
to  have  faith  as  to  the  existence  of  his 
Father  in  heaven,  but  what  did  his 
knowledge  do  for  him?  He  was  bril- 
liant, but  he  lacked  humility.     He  was 


ELDER  RICHARD  L.  EVANS 


13 


arrogant  and  overly  ambitious.  He 
wanted  to  usurp  his  Father's  power,  and 
he  wanted  to  do  things  in  his  own  way. 
He  wanted  to  change  the  command- 
ments, to  change  the  rules,  and  to  run 
the  kingdom  according  to  his  own 
pleasure  and  convenience,  and  his  own 
view  of  things.  So  it  is  not  always 
just  not  knowing  that  gets  in  our  way. 
With  his  brilliance,  humility  would 
have  saved  Lucifer,  but  that  he  did  not 
seem  to  have. 

Now  President  McKay  has  invited  our 
attention  to  some  things  specifically  con- 
cerning the  use  of  which  we  have 
been  cautioned  against,  and  concern- 
ing certain  practices  and  dangers,  and 
concerning  the  commandments  which 
have  been  given  to  us  plainly  and  clear- 
ly, all  of  which  bring  before  all  of  us 
the  question,  often  disputed,  as  to  what 
is  right  and  what  is  wrong: 

Often  we  hear  it  argued  that  if  a  per- 
son does  only  those  things  which  harm 
himself,  he  has  a  perfect  right  to  do  so, 
since  there  is  no  harm  done  except  to 
himself. 

Specifically  with  reference  to  the  use 
of  some  things — some  of  which  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  mentioned  this  morn- 
ing— I  think  we  can  lay  down  a  line  of 
right  and  wrong  quite  clearly,  more 
clearly  than  we  sometimes  suppose.  I 
think  that  whatever  is  detrimental  to 
health  and  happiness,  or  whatever  im- 
pairs effectiveness  or  efficiency,  is  clearly 
wrong,  morally  wrong,  spiritually  wrong, 
as  well  as  physically  wrong,  and  I  do 
not  believe  that  a  person  harms  only 
himself  in  the  use  of  what  he  calls  his 
right  to  live  his  life  as  he  pleases. 

In  the  first  place,  if  he  impairs  his 
own  efficiency  he  is  robbing  his  loved 
ones,  and  the  world,  of  some  things 
that  he  might  have  produced  or  done 
for  them.  Secondly,  if  he  impairs  his 
health,  he  is  placing  a  burden  on  others, 
or  the  possibility  of  that  burden — and  no 
man  can  know  that  he  is  not  going  to 
place  that  burden  upon  other  people. 
So,  I  say  again,  the  line  seems  to  be 
rather  sharply  drawn,  or  can  be:  that 
when  we  do  those  things  that  are  harm- 
ful to  us  or  to  others,  or  which  impair 
our  efficiency  or  that  of  others,  clearly 
we  are  doing  that  which  is  wrong.  It 
is  more  than  just  a  personal  choice.  It 
becomes  a  concern  for  everyone.    It  does 


become  a  moral  matter — a  matter  of 
commandment — and  rightly  so. 

The  glory  of  God  is  intelligence,  and 
I  cannot  conceive  of  man's  being  ac- 
counted as  being  intelligent  if  he  does 
that  to  himself  or  to  others  which  im- 
pairs health  and  happiness  and  effective- 
ness and  efficiency.  Indeed,  all  the 
commandments  are  designed  to  bring 
about  these  very  things:  our  health  and 
happiness,  and  peace  and  progress,  and 
effectiveness  here  and  hereafter,  limit- 
lessly;  and  we  need  to  keep  that  humil- 
ity which  is  ever  called  for  in  the 
making  of  our  choices  and  the  living 
of  our  lives. 

And  even  if  we  sometimes  think  we 
would  run  the  world  differently,  in  our 
limited  understanding,  we  know  so  little 
with  all  we  know.  We  still  cannot  an- 
swer most,  if  any,  of  the  questions 
asked  of  Job  many  centuries  ago,  when 
the  Lord  God  answered  Job  out  of  the 
whirlwind  and  said, 

Where  wast  thou  when  I  laid  the  founda- 
tions of  the  earth?  declare,  if  thou  hast 
understanding.  .  .  .  Hast  thou  entered  into 
the  springs  of  the  sea?  .  .  .  Have  the  gates 
of  death  been  opened  unto  thee?  or  hast 
thou  seen  the  doors  of  the  shadow  of 
death?  .  .  .  declare  if  thou  knowest  it  all. 
Where  is  the  way  where  light  dwelleth? 
and  as  for  darkness,  where  is  the  place 
thereof,  .  .  .  Who  hath  put  wisdom  in  the 
inward  parts? 

We  might  ask  it  another  way.  Who 
has  given  the  body  the  wisdom  to  heal 
itself? — or  who  has  placed  instinct  in 
animals — 

Who  hath  given  understanding  to  the 
heart? 

.  .  .  Who  provideth  for  the  raven  his 
food? 

.  .  .  Gavest  thou  the  goodly  wings  unto 
the  peacocks?  or  wings  and  feathers  unto 
the    ostrich? 

Which  leaveth  her  eggs  in  the  earth, 
and  warmeth  them  in  dust, 

.  .  .  Hast  thou  given  the  horse  strength? 

.  .  .  Doth  the  hawk  fly  by  thy  wisdom, 
and  stretch  her  wings  toward  the  south? 

Doth  the  eagle  mount  up  at  thy  com- 
mand, and  make  her  nest  on  high? 

Shall  he  that  contendeth  with  the  Al- 
mighty instruct  him?  He  that  reproveth 
God,  let  him  answer  it.  (See  Job  38-40.) 

Life  is  short  at  best.  Even  if  we 
should  live  twice  as  long  as  our  present 
expectancy,  it  would  still  be  short.    We 


14 

Friday,  April  5 

should  have  our  minds  and  hearts  and 
the  whole  intent  of  our  souls  on  the 
things  that  give  us  health  and  happi- 
ness and  effectiveness  here,  and  which 
will  lead  to  limitless  progress  hereafter, 
and  there  are  clear-cut  ways  of  discern- 
ing the  difference  between  right  and 
wrong.  I  pray  that  we  may  find  them 
and  live  by  them,  and  that  our  Father's 
purposes  and  promises  concerning  each 
of  us  may  be  realized  by  the  wisdom  of 
our  choices  and  by  the  acceptance  of  this 
personal  responsibility  of  which  Presi- 
dent McKay  has  spoken.  For  beyond 
our  Savior's  saving  grace  no  one  stands 
between  us  and  our  own  salvation — or 
exaltation.  I  pray  that  we  may  find  it, 
and  that  we  may  be  part  of  that  glorious 
homecoming  which  it  is  our  Father's 
hope  and  purpose  to  bring  about  for 
the  whole  human  family. 

God  bless  you  and  be  with  you,  and 
with  us  all  in  the  use  of  our  freedom, 
and  in  the  acceptance  of  the  challenge 
and  trust  which  our  President  has  given 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

unto  us  this  day  in  meeting  and  living 
by  this  personal  responsibility,  and  mak- 
ing our  choices  wisely  so  that  all  that 
our  Father  intends  for  each  of  us  may 
be  ours  in  his  presence  and  in  his  king- 
dom with  our  loved  ones.  In  Jesus' 
name.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  heard  Elder  Richard  L. 
Evans  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 
The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
sing  "High  On  The  Mountain  Top," 
two  verses.  Following  the  singing, 
Elder  LeGrand  Richards  will  speak  to 
us. 

The  Combined  Choruses  and  the  con- 
gregation joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"High  On  The  Mountain  Top." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  will  now  address  us. 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


I  am  sure  our  hearts  have  all  been 
stirred  this  morning  with  apprecia- 
tion for  being  privileged  to  be  mem- 
bers of  this  great  Church,  for  our  great 
leader  and  the  power  of  his  leadership, 
and  for  these  our  Brethren,  and  I  rejoice 
in  being  with  you,  in  being  a  part  of 
this  great  latter-day  gospel  movement. 
The  President  referred  in  his  talk 
this  morning  to  the  great  progress  that 
is  being  made  and  has  been  made  in 
the  world  scientifically,  the  comforts 
that  we  enjoy,  the  powers  that  have 
been  harnessed,  and  as  I  think  of  that — 
electricity  and  the  sound  waves  that 
have  brought  us  all  these  modern  con- 
veniences— I  wonder  if  the  world  realizes 
that  there  are  other  unseen  powers  that 
are  operating  in  the  world,  the  power  of 
darkness  seeking  to  destroy  the  work 
of  the  Lord,  and  the  power  of  God  in 
the  hearts  of  the  honest  who  find  the 
way  of  eternal  truth. 

I  would  like  to  predicate  the  few  words 
that  I  say  this  morning  on  an  experi- 
ence that  I  had  a  few  weeks  ago  in 
attending  a  stake  conference  in  a  neigh- 


boring state.  One  of  the  fine  men  of 
the  community,  through  the  efforts  of 
our  stake  missionaries,  had  recently 
joined  the  Church.  He  was  happy  in 
his  membership  in  the  Church.  It 
brought  a  change  in  his  life,  a  change 
in  his  thoughts,  a  change  in  his  habits, 
a  change  in  his  desires  and  interest  in 
his  fellow  men.  He  had  a  neighbor 
with  whom  he  had  been  very  friendly. 
They  lent  each  other  equipment  from 
their  farms,  but  as  soon  as  this  man 
joined  the  Church  his  neighbor  turned 
against  him. 

The  new  convert  ran  for  a  position 
on  the  school  board,  and  his  neighbor 
went  out  and  gathered  people  from 
far  and  near  to  bring  them  into  the 
polls  to  defeat  this  former  friend  and 
neighbor.  After  the  election  was  over, 
the  new  convert  went  to  his  neighbor. 
He  said,  "What  have  I  done  that  would 
change  your  attitude  toward  me  as  it 
has  been  changed?"  The  answer  was, 
"I  do  not  like  the  Mormons." 

If  he  had  been  living  in  the  days  of 
the  Savior,  his  answer  would  have  been, 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


15 


"I  do  not  like  the  Christians,"  and  I 
think  of  the  words  of  the  Savior  when 
he  said: 

If  the  world  hate  you,  ye  know  that  it 
hated  me  before  it  hated  you. 

If  ye  were  of  the  world,  the  world  would 
love  his  own:  but  because  ye  are  not  of 
the  world,  but  I  have  chosen  you  out  of 
the  world,  therefore  the  world  hateth  you. 

Remember  the  word  that  I  said  unto 
you,  The  servant  is  not  greater  than  his 
lord.  If  they  have  persecuted  me,  they 
will  also  persecute  you;  if  they  have  kept 
my  saying,  they  will  keep  your's   also. 

But  all  these  things  will  they  do  unto 
you  for  my  name's  sake,  because  they 
know  not  him  that  sent  me.  (John  15:18- 
21.) 

If  we  understood  the  power  there  is 
operating  in  the  world  to  deceive  the 
nations!  Reference  has  been  made  this 
morning  to  Satan.  We  read  in  Revela- 
tion that  when  he  was  cast  out  of 
heaven,  the  cry  went  up, 

.  .  .  Woe  to  the  inhabiters  of  the  earth 
and  of  the  sea!  for  the  devil  is  come  down 
unto  you,  having  great  wrath,  because  he 
knoweth  that  he  hath  but  a  short  time. 
(Rev.  12:12.) 

And  there  was  war  in  heaven:  Michael 
and  his  angels  fought  against  the  dragon; 
and  the  dragon  fought  and  his  angels, 

And  prevailed  not;  neither  was  their 
place  found  any  more  in  heaven. 

And  the  great  dragon  was  cast  out,  that 
old  serpent,  called  the  Devil,  and  Satan, 
which  deceiveth  the  whole  world:  he  was 
cast  out  into  the  earth,  and  his  angels  were 
cast  out  with  him.   {Ibid.,  12:7-9.) 

Just  think  of  that  statement  for  a  mo- 
ment, that  he  "deceiveth  the  whole 
world."  I  am  sure  the  world  does  not 
know  how  often  they  listen  to  his  de- 
ceptive voice  in  the  things  that  they 
do  and  in  the  decisions  that  they  make. 
At  this  particular  point,  when  we  look 
back  over  the  history  of  Christianity, 
we  ask  ourselves,  "How  could  they  have 
crucified  our  Lord,  the  one  great  example 
unto  all  men?"  The  only  answer  is 
because  they  were  deceived  by  this  power 
of  darkness.  It  is  not  only  those  who 
are  wicked  who  listen  to  his  voice,  but 
also  many  righteous  people  who  mean 
to  be  doing  God's  service,  just  like  Paul 
of  old,  or  Saul  of  Tarsus.  You  remem- 
ber how  he  held  the  cloaks  for  those 
who  stoned  Stephen  to  death,  not  be- 
cause Stephen  had  done  any  harm,  but 


because  this  power  that  "deceiveth  the 
whole  world"  could  not  make  place  for 
him  in  this  world,  and  brought  about 
his  martyrdom. 

Paul,  on  his  way  to  Damascus,  went 
to  obtain  a  writ  to  persecute  the  Saints, 
and  then  it  was  that  the  voice  of  the 
Master  said,  "Saul,  Saul,  why  persecutest 
thou  me?  ...  it  is  hard  for  thee  to  kick 
against  the  pricks."  (Acts  9:4-5.)  You 
see,  Paul  had  thought  he  was  doing  the 
Lord's  service,  but  after  he  came  to  know 
the  power  of  the  truth,  he  gave  his 
life.  We  read  how  often  he  was  scourged 
and  whipped,  and  finally  he  was  be- 
headed at  Rome  under  Nero.  Take  the 
history  of  all  of  the  apostles.  Why 
were  they  put  to  death?  Why  did  the 
world  hate  them?  Because  they  were 
not  of  the  world,  and  the  world  could 
not  fellowship  these  apostles. 

I  was  in  Mexico  a  few  weeks  ago, 
where  I  saw  oil  paintings  of  all  of  the 
apostles  and  how  they  were  put  to 
death.  Peter,  as  you  know,  was  hanged 
with  his  head  downward.  James  was 
beheaded  at  Jerusalem,  and  Paul,  as 
I  have  told  you,  was  beheaded  at  Rome. 
John  was  thrown  into  a  cauldron  of 
boiling  oil.  Through  the  power  of  God 
his  life  was  saved,  and  all  of  the  apostles 
were  put  to  death  save  John.  Why? 
Because  this  power  of  the  evil  one  "de- 
ceiveth the  whole  world,"  according  to 
the  word  of  John. 

Those  of  us  who  have  had  consider- 
able missionary  experience  know  how 
literally  that  is  true.  Why  were  the 
Saints  all  looked  down  upon?  When 
Paul  appeared  in  Rome,  as  you  will 
remember,  the  high  priests  said, 

.  .  .  we  desire  to  hear  of  thee  what  thou 
thinkest,  for  as  concerning  this  sect,  we 
know  that  it  is  everywhere  spoken  against. 
(Acts  28:22.) 

Why  was  the  truth  everywhere  spoken 
against?  Well,  you  see,  there  was  a 
war  in  heaven.  There  isn't  time  to  go 
into  detail;  I  just  read  to  you  a  few 
words  about  that.  Satan  and  a  third 
of  the  hosts  of  heaven  were  cast  down 
upon  this  earth,  and  they  brought  with 
them  the  knowledge  that  they  had,  and 
according  to  Isaiah,  Satan  has  decreed 
that  he  would  exalt  his  throne  above  the 
throne  of  God,  that  he  would  become 
like  unto  the  Most  High. 


16 

Friday,  April  5 

Then  Isaiah  speaks  of  him  who  has 
deceived  the  nations  and  destroyed  the 
world  and  the  inhabitants  thereof,  and 
all  we  need  to  do  is  to  look  at  the  his- 
tory of  the  world,  and  realize  the  power 
that  is  bringing  about  such  destruction, 
when,  if  we  would  heed  the  light  of 
truth  and  inspiration  of  the  Spirit  of 
the  Lord,  all  men  might  live  in  harmony 
and  in  peace,  and  the  nations  of  the 
earth  might  walk  in  the  light  of  the 
Lord  their  God,  which  condition,  we 
are  told,  will  ultimately  come  to  pass. 

So  these  great  persecutions  we  find  in 
our  own  work.  As  the  Church  was 
evil-spoken  of  in  that  day,  it  is  evil- 
spoken  of  in  our  day.  We  have  found 
this  as  we  have  labored  among  the  peo- 
ple. If  it  were  not  for  that  power  that 
deceiveth  the  nations,  there  would  be 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  honest  people 
in  this  world  join  this  Church  because 
it  literally  is  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
restored  again  to  the  earth  in  this  day. 

I  think  of  Nicodemus  who  came  to 
the  Savior  of  the  world.  He  said, 
".  .  .  we  know  that  thou  art  a  teacher 
come  from  God,  for  no  man  can  do  these 
miracles  that  thou  doest,  except  God  be 
with  him."  And  Jesus  told  him  how 
he  should  be  born  again,  and  then  he 
said,  "We  speak  that  we  do  know,  and 
testify  that  we  have  seen;  and  ye  receive 
not  our  witness."  (John  3:2,  11.) 

Now  we  are  witnesses  of  the  Lord 
Jesus  Christ,  and  we  speak  that  we  do 
know  to  the  world,  and  we  testify  that 
we  have  seen,  and  we  know  that  his 
truth  has  been  restored  to  the  earth, 
and  the  heavens  have  been  opened;  and 
so,  as  Jesus  said,  "because  ye  are  not  of 
the  world,  .  .  .  therefore  the  world 
hateth  you." 

Many  of  our  finest  members  are  those 
who  have  had  prejudices  against  this 
Church  until  they  were  brought  into 
contact  in  a  way  that  we  could  present 
the  gospel  message  to  them.  I  had  a 
report  from  one  of  my  distant  relatives 
back  in  New  England  a  short  time  ago, 
and  he  had  just  read  one  of  our  books. 
He  said,  "I  doubt  if  you  have  any  idea 
the  erroneous  conception  the  people  of 
New  England  have  regarding  the  Mor- 
mon Church.  Sometimes  I  wonder  if 
they  believe  the  things  that  they  tell." 

A  man  in  New  England  to  whom  I 
had  the  privilege  of  preaching  the  gos- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

pel  wrote  me  a  letter  after  I  returned 
home.  He  was  the  treasurer  of  his  own 
church.  He  thanked  me  for  bringing 
him  the  truth  but  said,  "I  am  too  big 
a  coward  to  accept  it  until  I  can  get  my 
friends  and  my  relatives  and  my  neigh- 
bors to  feeling  more  friendly  toward 
your  people."  You  see,  because  we  are 
not  of  the  world,  therefore  the  world 
hates  us. 

We  were  holding  a  conference  in 
Mississippi  when  I  was  the  president 
of  the  mission  there,  and  a  young  col- 
lege man  came  up  at  the  close  of  the 
morning  meeting  and  wanted  to  know 
if  he  could  talk  in  the  afternoon  meet- 
ing, and  I  assured  him  he  might.  He 
said,  "But  I  am  not  a  member  of  your 
Church."  "Well,"  I  said,  "you  cannot 
say  anything  that  will  hurt  any  of  our 
members,"  and  so  we  called  him  up  to 
speak,  and  this  is  what  he  said: 

"I  was  raised  here  in  Mississippi  to 
believe  that  the  Mormons  were  the  most 
undesirable  people  in  the  world,  and 
then  I  finished  my  college  education  and 
went  to  Arizona  to  work.  There  my  lot 
was  cast  with  the  Mormon  people,  and 
when  I  returned  here  it  was  cast  with  the 
Mormons  here.  Now  I  have  been  at- 
tending their  meetings.  I  know  what 
their  lives  are,  and  their  ideals,  and 
their  teachings,  and  I  no  longer  think 
of  the  Mormons  as  the  most  undesirable 
people  in  the  world.  I  am  wondering 
when  I  will  be  good  enough  to  be  a 
member  of  the  Mormon  Church." 

That  is  what  people  find  when  they 
know  the  truth,  and  if  the  evil  one 
were  not  out  deceiving  the  minds  of 
the  whole  world,  as  the  scriptures  say, 
this  work  would  go  on  with  mighty 
progress  in  the  world. 

I  bear  you  my  witness  that  there  is 
not  an  honest  man  nor  an  honest 
woman  in  this  world  who  really  loves 
the  Lord  who  would  not  join  this 
Church  if  he  knew  what  it  was,  and 
we  find  testimonies  coming  to  us  from 
all  sides. 

I  remember  one  minister  in  Holland. 
His  friends  who  had  joined  our  Church 
persuaded  him  to  come  and  listen  to 
our  missionaries,  and  at  the  close  of  the 
meeting  he  denounced  Joseph  Smith  as 
a  false  prophet,  as  a  deceiver,  as  every- 
thing vile  he  could  think  of,  and  then 


ELDER  LEGRAND  RICHARDS 


17 


he  went  home  and  went  to  bed.  He  told 
me  this  story  himself,  and  he  was  one 
of  the  finest  companions  I  have  ever 
labored  with  in  the  Church. 

He  said,  "I  did  not  know  what  I  had 
done,  but  I  knew  that  I  had  grieved 
God  because  peace  had  gone  out  of  my 
mind.  I  lay  and  tossed  all  night  until 
the  wee  hours  of  the  morning,  and  then 
arose  and  walked  the  streets  until  I 
thought  the  Mormon  elders  would  be 
up,  and  then  I  went  to  their  door  and 
asked  for  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon." I  want  to  tell  you  that  I  never 
listened  to  a  testimony  that  impressed 
me  more  than  to  hear  that  man  of  God 
bear  witness  that  he  knew  that  Joseph 
Smith  was  a  prophet  of  God,  and  the 
Book  of  Mormon  was  true,  and  the 
kingdom  of  God  had  been  established 
in  the  earth  to  prepare  the  way  for  the 
coming  of  the  Lord. 

We  have  had  a  good  many  ministers 
join  the  Church  just  recently — one  only 
last  week  right  here  in  Salt  Lake  City — 
men  who  are  humble  enough  to  realize 
that  the  truth  must  be  established  in 
the  earth  as  it  was  in  the  days  of  old 
to  prepare  the  way  for  the  coming  of 
the  Lord. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  read  a 
little  statement  from  two  of  our  recent 
converts.  This  is  a  copy  from  a  letter 
that  I  received  a  few  days  ago  from 
a  woman  I  met  in  Alabama  while  tour- 
ing that  mission  last  November — a 
dignified,  beautiful  character.  She  left 
her  own  church,  and  after  so  doing,  she 
went  back  to  the  minister  to  ask  him 
to  take  her  name  off  the  records.  She 
said,  "May  I  go  in  the  classroom  where 
I  have  stood  for  years,  and  taught  a 
Sunday  School  class?  I  want  to  thank 
God  for  the  privilege  that  has  been  mine 
of  teaching  in  that  room  and  ask  his 
blessings  upon  me  as  I  leave  it." 

Here  are  a  few  words  from  her  letter: 
"Elder  Richards,  I  was  a  member  of 
this  wonderful  Church  one  year,  the 
5th  of  February,  and  I  can  truthfully 
say,  1956  was  the  happiest  year  of  my 
life.  There  is  hardly  a  day  that  passes 
that  something  doesn't  happen  that 
strengthens  my  testimony.  I  only  regret 
that  I  did  not  have  an  opportunity  to 
receive  this  gospel  about  thirty  years 
ago.  I  will  just  have  to  be  content  with 
doing  what  I  can  the  rest  of  my  life." 


And  then  she  tells  of  her  activities  in 
the  Church. 

This  is  from  a  woman  who  wrote  in 
to  Salt  Lake  City  for  information  from 
the  Bureau  of  Information,  and  they 
sent  her  literature  to  read.  Then  after 
joining  the  Church  she  wrote:  "I  now 
have  a  serenity  and  composure,  and 
inner  strength,  and  an  inward  joy  which 
I  never  before  possessed."  That  is  the 
kind  of  joy  Paul  had,  and  others  who 
had  been  enemies  of  the  Church,  until 
Paul  was  willing  to  give  his  life  for 
his  testimony.  You  will  remember  when 
he  stood  in  chains,  and  Festus  said, 
"Paul,  thou  art  beside  thyself;  much 
learning  doth  make  thee  mad,"  to  which 
Paul  replied,  "I  am  not  mad,  most  noble 
Festus;  but  speak  forth  the  words  of 
truth  and  soberness."  Agrippa  said, 
"Almost  thou  persuadest  me  to  be  a 
Christian,"  to  which  Paul  replied  in 
words  like  this,  "I  would  to  God,  that 
not  only  thou,  but  also  all  that  hear 
me  this  day,  were  ...  as  I  am,  except 
these  bonds.  (Acts  26:24-25,  28-29.) 

In  closing,  I  want  to  read  to  you  the 
statement  of  Gamaliel.  You  remember 
the  statement  of  Gamaliel,  how  he  came 
to  the  rescue  of  the  apostles  of  old  and 
said  this  to  the  chief  priests  of  the  land: 

Ye  men  of  Israel,  take  heed  to  yourselves 
what  ye  intend  to  do  as  touching  these 
men. 

And  now  I  say  unto  you,  Refrain  from 
these  men,  and  let  them  alone:  for  if  this 
counsel  or  this  work  be  of  men,  it  will 
come    to   nought: 

But  if  it  be  of  God,  ye  cannot  overthrow 
it;  lest  haply  ye  be  found  even  to  fight 
against  God.  (Ibid.,  5:35,  38-39.) 

I  bear  you  my  solemn  witness  that 
any  man  or  any  woman  who  lifts  a 
voice  or  a  hand  to  stay  the  progress  of 
this  work  is  fighting  against  God,  the 
Eternal  Father,  and  is  deceived  by  the 
author  of  evil  in  the  world.  God  bless 
you  all  in  the  great  missionary  cause  of 
the  Church,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  LeGrand  Richards  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  Combined  Brigham 
Young  University  Chorus  will  now  sing, 


18 

Friday,  April  5 

"Holy  Lord  God  of  Sabaoth."  The  tenor 
solo  will  be  sung  by  Don  Gottfrettson. 
The  Chorus  is  conducted  by  Elder 
Norman  Gulbrandsen. 

After  the  singing,  the  closing  prayer 
of  this  session  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Earle  W.  Allen,  president  of  the  Hyrum 
Stake.  After  the  benediction,  this  Con- 
ference will  be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
this  afternoon. 

Singing  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  "Holy  Lord 
God  of  Sabaoth." 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  group  of  choice  young  people 
with  their  inspirational  singing  will  be 
with  us  again  this  afternoon.  The 
benediction  will  now  be  offered  by 
President  Earle  W.  Allen  of  the  Hyrum 
Stake. 

The  closing  prayer  was  offered  by 
Earle  W.  Allen,  president  of  the  Hyrum 
Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


FIRST  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  at  2  o'clock 
p.m.,  Friday,  April  5,  with  President 
David  O.  McKay  presiding  and  con- 
ducting. 

The  singing  for  this  session  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Brigham  Young  University 
Combined  Choruses,  with  Newel  B. 
Weight  conducting,  Frank  W.  Asper  at 
the  organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Members  of  the  Church  are  convened 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  in  the  sec- 
ond session  of  the  One  Hundred 
Twenty-Seventh  Annual  Conference  of 
the  Church.  For  the  convenience  of 
those  who  are  unable  to  enter  the 
building  we  announce  that  these  serv- 
ices are  being  broadcast  in  the  Assembly 
Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall  over  a  public 
address  system,  also  by  television.  The 
names  of  the  stations  over  which  these 
services  are  being  heard  by  radio  and 
television  have  been  named  prior  to  the 
opening  of  our  meeting. 

The  singing  for  this  session  will  be 
furnished  by  the  Brigham  Young  Uni- 
versity Combined  Choruses,  with 
Newell  B.  Weight  conducting,  and 
Frank  W.  Asper  at  the  organ.  We  shall 
begin  these  servcies  by  the  Brigham 
Young   University  Combined    Choruses 


singing,    "Omnipotence,"    with    Joann 
Ottley  as  soloist. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  George  H.  Mortimer,  president  of 
the  New  York  Stake. 

The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the  an- 
them, "Omnipotence." 

President  George  H.  Mortimer  of  the 
New  York  Stake  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  just  offered  was  by 
President  George  H.  Mortimer  of  the 
New  York  Stake.  The  Brigham  Young 
University  Combined  Choruses  will  now 
favor  us  with  "I  Know  That  My  Re- 
deemer Lives."  It  is  arranged  by  Elder 
Newell  B.  Weight,  and  conducted  by 
him.  After  the  singing  we  shall  hear 
from  Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang,  "I 
Know  That  My  Redeemer  Lives." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy  will  now  address 
us.  Elder  McConkie  will  be  followed 
by  Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve. 


19 


ELDER  BRUCE  R.  McCONKIE 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay  spoke  this  morning 
in  plainness  and  with  great  force  and 
power,  saying  that  we  should  keep 
the  commandments  of  God;  that  we 
should  be  doers  of  the  word,  and  not 
hearers  only;  that  we  should  work  out 
our  salvation  with  fear  and  trembling 
before  God — all  in  accordance  with  the 
principle  that  it  is  not  he  who  saith, 
"Lord,  Lord,"  but  he  that  doeth  the 
will  of  the  Father,  who  will  gain  eternal 
salvation. 

Now  I  would  like  to  call  attention  to 
one  particular  commandment — a  com- 
mandment given  in  that  revelation 
which  is  known  as  the  law  of  the 
Church,  a  commandment  which,  if  kept, 
will  give  us  joy  and  peace  and  happi- 
ness in  this  life  and  assure  us  of  that 
fulness  of  salvation  to  which  our  Presi- 
dent referred  this  morning.  The  Lord 
said  this:  "Thou  shalt  love  thy  wife 
with  all  thy  heart,  and  shalt  cleave  unto 
her  and  none  else"  (D  &  C  42:22) ;  and 
similarly  we  might  say,  "Thou  shalt  love 
thy  husband  with  all  thy  heart,  and 
shalt  cleave  unto  him  and  none  else." 

Let  us  turn  the  light  of  introspection 
upon  ourselves.  How  much  do  we  love 
our  husbands  and  our  wives?  How 
much  do  we  love  our  children?  How 
fervent  and  realistic  is  our  desire  to 
have  the  family  unit  continue  in  eter- 
nity? May  I  say  something  relative  to 
the  relationship  between  the  continua- 
tion of  the  family  unit  in  eternity,  and 
receiving  the  fulness  of  salvation,  the 
fulness  being  eternal  life  or  exaltation 
in  the  kingdom  of  God. 

Every  thinking  person  knows  there 
will  be  different  degrees  of  reward  in  the 
life  hereafter.  The  mere  fact  that  men 
are  to  be  judged  according  to  their 
works  indicates  that  varying  rewards 
will  be  meted  out.    Our  Lord  said, 

In  my  Father's  house  are  many  mansions: 

— and  then  to  emphasize  the  self-evident 
nature   of  that  great  truth,  he   added, 

If  it  were  not  so,  I  would  have  told  you. 
(John  14:2.) 

We  know  of  kingdoms  of  glory  likened 
respectively  to  the  stars,  the  moon,  and 


the  sun,  as  pertaining  to  their  glory. 
These  kingdoms  are  the  telestial,  ter- 
restrial, and  celestial.  The  celestial  is 
the  kingdom  of  God,  the  kingdom  we 
may  attain  through  the  Church,  through 
the  gospel,  and  through  personal 
righteousness.  Having  that  perspective, 
please  note  the  words  of  this  revelation: 

In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens  or  degrees; 

And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest,  a 
man  must  enter  into  this  order  of  the 
priesthood  [meaning  the  new  and  ever- 
lasting covenant  of  marriage] ; 

And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but  that 
is  the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he  cannot  have 
an  increase.  (D  &  C  131:1-4.) 

In  exactly  the  same  sense  that  re- 
pentance and  baptism  is  the  gate  which 
puts  us  on  the  path  leading  to  salvation 
in  the  celestial  kingdom,  so  this  order 
of  marriage  called  celestial  marriage 
opens  the  door  and  puts  us  on  the  path 
whereby  we  may  press  forward  to  eternal 
life  and  exaltation  in  the  highest 
heaven  of  the  celestial  world.  The 
revelation  on  marriage,  speaking  of  peo- 
ple who  have  opportunity  in  this  life 
to  abide  the  terms  and  conditions  of 
this  eternal  marriage  covenant  and  who 
do  not  do  it,  says  that  in  the  world  to 
come  there  is  neither  marrying  nor  giv- 
ing in  marriage  for  them.  Those  who 
do  not  avail  themselves  of  the  oppor- 
tunity in  this  life  to  enter  the  celestial 
law  of  marriage  become  "ministering 
servants,  to  minister  for  those  who  are 
worthy  of  a  far  more,  and  an  exceeding, 
and  an  eternal  weight  of  glory,"  the 
Lord  says: 

For  these  angels  did  not  abide  my  law; 
therefore,  they  cannot  be  enlarged,  but 
remain  separately  and  singly,  without  exal- 
tation, in  their  saved  condition,  to  all 
eternity;  and  from  henceforth  are  not  gods, 
but  are  angels  of  God  forever  and  ever. 
(D  &  C  132:16-17.) 

In  eternity  there  will  be  on  the  one 
hand  immortality,  which  means  to  live 
forever  as  a  resurrected  being;  there  will 
be  on  the  other  hand  eternal  life,  which 
is  the  greatest  of  all  the  gifts  of  God. 


20 

Friday,  April  5 

There  will  be  on  the  one  hand  those 
who  are  servants,  who  are  ministering 
angels;  there  will  be  on  the  other  hand 
exalted  and  glorified  personages.  The 
difference  between  these  two  categories — 
the  one  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  other 
on  the  other — the  difference  is  the  con- 
tinuation of  the  family  unit  in  eternity. 
By  definition  and  in  its  nature,  exaltation 
consists  in  the  continuation  of  the  fam- 
ily unit  through  all  ages  yet  to  be.  If 
the  family  unit  continues,  if  husband 
and  wife  go  into  the  spirit  world  as  a 
married  couple  and  come  up  in  the 
resurrection  continuing  as  husband  and 
wife,  then  exaltation  is  assured.  If  they 
go  there  separately  and  singly — either 
not  having  entered  into  this  celestial 
order  or,  having  entered  into  it,  having 
not  kept  the  terms  and  conditions  and 
laws  that  appertain  to  it — they  will 
have  immortality  only  and  not  eternal 
life. 

All  men  will  get  all  that  they  are  able 
to  receive,  all  that  a  gracious  and  merci- 
ful Father  can  give  them,  but  the  ful- 
ness is  reserved  for  those  who  abide 
the  whole  gospel  law,  who  keep  all  of 
the  terms  and  conditions  of  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant  of  marriage. 

Now,  how  much  do  you  love  your 
husband  or  your  wife?  With  what  de- 
sire do  you  seek  eternal  exaltation  in 
the  mansions  hereafter?  Let  it  be  re- 
membered that  love  is  measured  in 
terms  of  obedience  and  of  service,  in 
accordance   with   the   principle,   "If  ye 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

love  me,  keep  my  commandments." 
(John  14:15.)  Accordingly,  if  we  have 
in  our  hearts  a  love,  born  of  the  Spirit 
of  Christ,  for  our  families,  and  for  that 
matter,  for  our  own  salvation,  we  will 
seek  to  do  those  things  which  will 
qualify  us  to  gain  recommends  to  the 
temple,  there  to  be  sealed  in  the  eternal 
marriage  union;  and  then  having  been 
so  sealed,  we  will  desire  with  all  our 
hearts  to  walk  in  the  light,  to  keep  the 
covenant  that  we  have  made,  so  that 
it  will  be  of  full  force  and  validity  in 
the  eternal  world,  having  been  bound 
on  earth  and  sealed  in  heaven,  having 
been  ratified  by  the  Spirit  here,  and 
made  of  full  force  and  validity  in  the 
mansions  hereafter.  There  is  not  any 
single  thing,  any  single  act  or  perform- 
ance that  any  Latter-day  Saint  ever  does 
in  this  world  as  important  as  marrying 
the  right  person  in  the  right  place  by 
the  right  authority,  because  that  kind  of 
marriage  is  the  gate  to  peace  and  con- 
tentment and  happiness  in  this  life, 
and  it  opens  the  door  to  the  attainment 
of  the  fulness  of  the  kingdom  of  the 
Father  hereafter.  In  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  we  have  just  listened  is 
Elder  Bruce  R.  McConkie  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy.  Elder  Harold  B. 
Lee  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will 
now  speak  to  us,  and  Brother  Lee  will 
be  followed  by  Elder  Alma  Sonne. 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


This  morning  in  the  opening  session 
our  beloved  President  lifted  my  soul 
with  his  remarkable  address,  and  it 
pleases  me  to  know  that  my  whole  soul 
responds  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  great 
message  which  he  gave  us.  I  trust 
that  in  these  few  minutes  what  I 
say  will  be  in  full  harmony  with  that 
about  which  he  has  instructed  us. 

The  sermon  of  President  Bruce  R. 
McConkie  has  laid  a  remarkable  founda- 
tion for  the  thoughts  which  I  have  had 
on  this  same  important  subject,  so  im- 
portant to  the  welfare  of  all  our  Father's 


children  here  and  in  the  world  to  come. 
So  the  spirit  willing,  and  if  I  may  have 
an  interest  in  your  faith  and  prayers, 
I  would  like  to  speak  briefly  about  this 
sacred  ordinance  of  temple  marriage 
which  is  so  vital  to  every  human  soul. 
I  should  like  to  introduce  my  few  re- 
marks by  relating  three  simple  inci- 
dents that  have  occurred  on  this  block; 
then  I  should  like  to  bring  one  or  two 
powerful  lessons  from  the  scriptures  and 
from  the  sermons  of  some  of  our  leaders; 
and  then  conclude,  in  the  few  moments 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


21 


that  I  have,  with  a  few  observations 
with  reference  thereto. 

These  three  incidents  are  true  life 
stories  as  told  by  temple  watchmen  who 
serve  us  around  the  clock  over  on  the 
east  gate  through  which  all  who  come 
to  the  temple  proper  must  enter.  I 
shall  read  these  incidents  just  as  they 
were  given  to  me  by  the  brethren. 

"One  morning  not  so  long  ago  I  was 
sitting  at  the  desk  in  the  temple  gate 
house  reading  when  my  attention  was 
drawn  to  a  knock  on  the  door.  There 
stood  two  little  boys,  ages  about  seven 
or  eight  years.  As  I  opened  the  door, 
I  noticed  that  they  were  poorly  dressed 
and  had  been  neither  washed  nor 
combed.  They  appeared  as  if  they 
had  left  home  before  Father  or  Mother 
had  awakened  that  morning.  As  I 
looked  beyond  these  little  fellows,  I 
saw  two  infants  in  pushcarts.  In  answer 
to  my  question  as  to  what  they  wanted, 
one  of  the  boys  pointed  to  his  little 
brother  in  the  cart  and  replied:  'His 
name  is  Joe.  Will  you  shake  hands 
with  little  Joe?  It  is  little  Joe's  birth- 
day— he  is  two  years  old  today,  and  I 
want  him  to  touch  the  temple  so  when 
he  gets  to  be  an  old  man  he  will  re- 
member he  touched  the  temple  when 
he  was  two  years  old.' 

"Pointing  to  the  other  little  boy  in 
the  other  cart,  he  said  this:  'This  is 
Mark,  he's  two  years  old,  too.'  Then, 
with  a  solemn,  reverent  attitude  rare  in 
children  so  young,  he  asked:  'Now  can 
we  go  over  there  and  touch  the  temple?' 
I  replied:  'Sure  you  can.'  They  pushed 
their  little  carts  over  to  the  temple  and 
lifted  the  infants  up,  and  placed  their 
hands  against  that  holy  building.  Then 
as  I  stood  there  with  a  lump  in  my 
throat,  I  heard  the  little  boy  say  to  his 
infant  brother,  'Now,  Joe,  you  will  al- 
ways remember  when  you  was  two  years 
old  you  touched  the  temple.'  They 
thanked  me  and  departed  for  home." 

The  second  incident: 

"This  spring  (1956)  a  large  group 
of  young  men  and  young  women  (per- 
haps one  hundred)  ages  fifteen,  sixteen, 
and  seventeen  years,  from  Spokane 
Stake,  came  to  the  temple  of  the  Lord 
to  perform  baptisms  for  the  dead.  They 
were  a  very  fine-looking  group.  Their 
features  beamed  with  the  light  of  the 
gospel.      They    were    quiet    and    very 


orderly;  they  possessed  the  spirit  of 
reverence.  They  realized  they  were  on 
holy  ground  and  were  about  to  enter 
into  God's  holy  temple  to  perform  bap- 
tisms for  the  dead.  Led  by  the  priest- 
hood and  members  of  the  genealogical 
committee  into  the  temple,  they  gave 
the  right  to  citizenship  in  the  kingdom 
of  God  to  perhaps  750  souls.  As  they 
came  out  of  the  temple  after  their  day's 
work  was  done,  I  saw  a  young  girl  go 
up  the  steps  to  the  main  entrance  to 
the  temple  on  the  east  side.  As  I  ap- 
proached her  I  noticed  she  was  standing 
facing  the  door  with  bowed  head  and 
hands  clasped  in  prayer.  I  waited.  As 
she  descended  the  granite  steps  she  came 
over  to  me,  tears  of  joy  streaming  down 
her  face.  She  said,  This  has  been  the 
happiest  day  of  my  life.' " 

(May  I  pause  to  say  that  perhaps  she, 
too,  that  day  had  truly  touched  the  tem- 
ple for  the  first  time  through  holy  and 
sacred  ordinances.) 

And  then  the  final  incident: 

"As  I  see  almost  daily  Latter-day  Saint 
women  who  have  sold  their  birthright 
for  a  pot  of  porridge  and  are  now  reap- 
ing the  whirlwind — women  who  could 
have  enjoyed  the  blessing  of  the  priest- 
hood and  the  blessings  of  the  house  of 
the  Lord,  but  who  failed  to  heed  the 
counsel  of  the  prophets  of  God  and 
married  out  of  the  temple  of  God. 
Mothers  bring  their  daughters  as  far  as 
the  temple  gate  house  (for  that  is  as 
far  as  they  are  permitted  to  go),  and  as 
they  cling  to  each  other  in  loving  em- 
brace, weeping  as  if  their  hearts  would 
break,  daughter  taking  departure  and 
entering  into  the  temple  of  the  Lord — 
Mother  is  heard  to  say,  'Oh,  if  I  had 
but  listened  to  my  parents  and  to  the 
counsel  given  me  by  my  bishop  to  pre- 
pare myself  and  wait  until  with  my 
husband,  I  could  be  married  in  the 
house  of  the  Lord!  I  have  tried  for 
thirty  years  to  convince  my  husband 
that  Mormonism  is  true,  but  I  have 
utterly  failed.  And  to  think  I  am  not 
even  permitted  to  witness  my  daughter's 
marriage  and  that  I  may  never  have  the 
joyous  experience  which  is  now  to  be 
hers!'" 

As  I  relate  these  incidents,  those  of 
you  who  may  not  now  be  members  of 
the  Church  may  ask,  "But  why  is  a 
marriage  in  the  temple  so  important?" 


22 

Friday,  April  5 

Brother  McConkie  has  answered  it  per- 
fectly. Shall  I  summarize  what  he  said 
as  he  has  quoted  from  the  scriptures? 
Only  through  this  sacred  ordinance  of 
a  temple  marriage  can  members  of  the 
Church  receive  an  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom. 

Listen  again  to  the  word  of  the  Lord: 

In  the  celestial  glory  there  are  three 
heavens  or  degrees; 

And  in  order  to  obtain  the  highest,  a  man 
must  enter  into  this  order  of  the  priesthood 
[meaning  the  new  and  everlasting  covenant 
of  marriage] ; 

And  if  he  does  not,  he  cannot  obtain  it. 

He  may  enter  into  the  other,  but  that  is 
the  end  of  his  kingdom;  he  cannot  have  an 
increase.  (D  &  C  131:1-4.) 

The  Lord  has  said  it  again  in  another 
revelation: 

...  if  a  man  marry  a  wife  by  my  word, 
which  is  my  law,  and  by  the  new  and 
everlasting  covenant,  and  it  is  sealed  unto 
them  by  the  Holy  Spirit  of  promise,  by  him 
who  is  anointed,  unto  whom  I  have  ap- 
pointed this  power  and  the  keys  of  this 
priesthood;  .  .  .  and  if  ye  abide  in  my 
covenant,  and  commit  no  murder  whereby 
to  shed  innocent  blood,  it  shall  be  done  unto 
them  in  all  things  whatsoever  my  servant 
hath  put  upon  them,  in  time,  and  through 
all  eternity;  and  shall  be  of  full  force  when 
they  are  out  of  the  world;  and  they  shall 
pass  by  the  angels,  and  the  gods,  which  are 
set  there,  to  their  exaltation  and  glory  in  all 
things,  as  hath  been  sealed  upon  their 
heads,  which  glory  shall  be  a  fulness  and 
a  continuation  of  the  seeds  forever  and 
ever.   (Ibid.,  132:19.) 

In  explanation  of  that  scripture,  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  said  this  (and  I 
read  this  because  there  seems  to  be  some 
misunderstanding  as  to  just  what  the 
Lord  meant)  the  Prophet  said  in  ex- 
planation: 

Except  a  man  and  his  wife  enter  into  an 
everlasting  covenant,  and  are  married  for 
eternity  while  in  this  probation,  by  the 
power  and  authority  of  the  Holy  Priesthood, 
they  will  cease  to  increase  when  they  die; 
that  is,  they  will  not  have  any  children 
after  the  resurrection.  But  those  who  are 
married  by  the  power  and  authority  of  the 
priesthood  in  this  life,  and  continue  without 
committing  the  sin  against  the  Holy  Ghost, 
will  continue  to  increase  and  have  children 
in  the  celestial  glory.  The  unpardonable 
sin  is  to  shed  innocent  blood  or  to  be  ac- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

cessory  thereto.  All  other  sins  will  be  visited 
with  judgment  in  the  flesh,  and  the  spirit 
being  delivered  to  the  buffetings  of  Satan 
until  the  day  of  the  Lord  Jesus.  (D  H  C 
Vol.  5,  pp.  391-2.) 

(And  of  course,  this  last  statement 
means  clearly  on  condition  that  they 
repent  of  their  sins.) 

As  I  have  gone  throughout  the  Church, 
I  have  been  concerned  to  know  why 
there  are  so  many  of  our  young  people 
who  do  not  avail  themselves  of  the  op- 
portunity of  going  to  the  temple.  I  have 
asked  our  leaders  as  I  have  gone  about 
to  stake  conferences,  and  they  have  given 
me  several  answers. 

The  most  frequent  reason  given  is 
that  young  people  do  not  have  proper 
encouragement  from  their  homes.  Un- 
fortunately, many,  unlike  the  little  chil- 
dren in  the  incident  I  have  related,  have 
not  been  impressed  in  their  childhood 
with  the  sacred  privileges  of  the  temple. 
Parents  who  themselves  have  lightly  re- 
garded their  temple  covenants  can  ex- 
pect little  better  from  their  children 
because  of  their  bad  example.  Little 
children  should  not  be  taught  to  rever- 
ence the  temple  itself  but  to  look  forward 
reverently  to  the  holy  experiences  which 
one  day  might  be  theirs. 

And  then  another  reason  is  one  that 
strikes  a  bit  of  pain  to  the  hearts  of  all 
of  us  who  realize  that  there  must  be 
much  truth  to  it.  Our  leaders  say  that 
some  do  not  go  to  the  house  of  the  Lord 
because  they  are  not  worthy  of  a  temple 
recommend.  It  was  the  late  Brother 
Orson  F.  Whitney  who  wrote  a  beautiful 
verse  which  is  found  at  the  entrance 
of  the  Alberta  Temple: 

Hearts  must  be  pure  to  come  within  these 

walls 
Where  spreads  a  feast  unknown  to  festive 

halls. 
Freely  partake,  for  freely  God  has  given, 
And  taste  the  holy  joys  that  tell  of  heaven. 

Here  learn  of  Him  who  triumphed  o'er  the 

grave, 
And  unto  men  the  Keys,  the  kingdom  gave: 
Joined  here  by  powers  that  past  and  present 

bind 
The  living  and  the  dead  perfection  find. 

Now  there  are  certain  standards  that 
are  required,  as  President  McConkie  has 
explained,  and  the  bishop  and  the  stake 


ELDER  HAROLD  B.  LEE 


23 


president  are  expected  to  scrutinize  each 
applicant  in  order  to  keep  sacred  these 
holy  temples  where  these  sacred  ordi- 
nances are  being  performed. 

With  regard  to  this  matter  of  keeping 
young  people  pure  and  clean  for  these 
sacred  privileges,  I  found  something  that 
to  me  was  great  wisdom  from  an  address 
by  Dr.  Henry  I.  Bowman,  President  of 
Stephens  College  at  Columbia,  Missouri. 
It  is  an  all-girls'  junior  college.  The 
article  is  headed:  "Petting,  Hasty  Mar- 
riages, and  Babies."  I  read  one  or  two 
paragraphs: 

If  any  girl  thinks  she  is  doing  her  boy 
friend  a  favor  by  permitting  or  encouraging 
petting,  she's  both  stupid  and  juvenile.  A 
friendship  with  a  girl  of  a  warm,  vibrant, 
and  genuine  personality  and  charm — a 
friendship  that  later  may  culminate  in  mar- 
riage— is  more  significant  to  a  lonely  boy. 

Now  and  then,  young  people  enter  into 
hasty  marriages  with  the  hope  of  insuring 
fidelity  of  the  other  during  their  separation. 
They  forget  that  fidelity  depends,  not  upon 
formal  vows,  but  upon  an  inherent  sense  of 
decency  and  honor.  If  that  is  lacking,  no 
ceremony  can  make  up  for  it.  A  sweetheart 
is  just  as  powerful  an  urge  to  fidelity  as  a 
wife. 

I've  noticed  that  few  partners  in  hasty  or 
war  marriages  include  in  their  sketchy  plans 
the  possibility  of  a  baby.  One  recent  bride 
told  me  casually  she  was  going  to  live  with 
her  parents  until  her  husband  returned. 
"And  will  there  be  room  if  you  have  a 
child?"  I  asked.  "Heavens,  no,"  she  replied, 
"we  aren't  worrying  about  that."  Like  thou- 
sands of  other  brides  and  grooms,  this  couple 
is  accepting  the  responsibilities  of  marriage 
without  accepting  the  responsibilities  of 
children.  Aside  from  the  question  of  the 
morality  of  planning  a  childless  marriage, 
even  temporarily,  there  is  the  practical  fact 
that  few  marriages  turn  out  happily  that 
are  deliberately  childless. 

I  wish  that  all  of  the  youth  of  the  land 
could  hear  the  counsel  of  that  wise  edu- 
cator and  leader  of  youth. 

Some  tell  us  that  young  people  have 
avoided  going  to  the  temple  because  they 
prefer  a  time  marriage  first  to  see 
whether  or  not  their  marriage  is  going 
to  prove  successful  before  they  go  to  the 
temple.  And  some  have  said  facetiously, 
"Well,  I  am  not  sure  whether  I  want 
him  for  eternity  or  not." 

President  Brigham  Young,  comment- 
ing upon  this  very  matter,  said  this: 


Those  who  attain  to  the  blessings  of  the 
first  or  celestial  resurrection  will  be  pure  and 
holy,  and  perfect  in  body.  Every  man  and 
woman  that  reaches  to  this  unspeakable 
attainment  will  be  as  beautiful  as  the  angels 
that  surround  the  throne  of  God.  If  you 
can,  by  faithfulness  in  this  life,  attain  the 
right  to  come  up  in  the  morning  of  the 
resurrection,  you  need  entertain  no  fears  that 
the  wife  will  be  dissatisfied  with  her  hus- 
band or  the  husband  with  the  wife,  for 
those  of  the  first  resurrection  will  be  free 
from  sin  and  from  the  consequences  and 
power  of  sin.  This  body  is  "sown  in  cor- 
ruption, it  is  raised  in  incorruption;  it  is 
sown  in  dishonor,  it  is  raised  in  glory;  it 
is  sown  in  weakness,  it  is  raised  in  power; 
it  is  sown  a  natural  body;  it  is  raised  a 
spiritual  body."  "And  as  we  have  borne  the 
image  of  the  earthly,  we  shall  also  bear 
the  image  of  the  heavenly."  {Journal  of 
Discourses   10:24.) 

Those  who  go  to  the  marriage  altar 
with  love  in  their  hearts,  we  might  say 
to  them  in  truth,  if  they  will  be  true 
to  the  covenants  that  they  take  in  the 
temple,  fifty  years  after  their  marriage 
they  can  say  to  each  other:  "We  must 
have  not  known  what  true  love  was 
when  we  were  married,  because  we 
think  so  much  more  of  each  other  to- 
day!" And  so  it  will  be  if  they  will 
follow  the  counsel  of  their  leaders  and 
obey  the  holy,  sacred  instructions  given 
in  the  temple  ceremony;  they  will  grow 
more  perfectly  in  love  even  to  a  fulness 
of  love  in  the  presence  of  the  Lord  him- 
self. Young  people  do  not  know  the 
true  sacredness  of  marriage  until  they 
have  been  taught  by  the  temple  ordi- 
nance. 

Another  of  the  reasons  given  why 
some  do  not  marry  in  the  temple  is  that 
they  marry  out  of  the  Church  and  there- 
fore cannot  enter  the  temple.  Dr.  Paul 
Popenoe,  who  is  not  of  us  but  is  a  wise 
man  in  counseling  on  such  matters,  has 
this  to  say  concerning  marrying  outside 
of  your  church: 

The  price  may  be  almost  anything.  It 
may  be  alienation  from  your  own  family 
or  alienation  of  your  bride  from  hers;  it 
may  be  giving  up  your  church  to  join  hers. 
It  may  be  the  abandonment  of  each  of 
church  affiliation,  and  living  thenceforth 
without  association  with  organized  religions; 
it  may  be  less  than  any  of  these,  or  much 
more;  count  the  price  before  you  go  ahead; 
and  if  you  want  to  do  it,  pay  it  in  advance! 

I  wish  the  parents  could  understand 


24 

Friday,  April  5 

that  youth  will  find  their  mates  from 
that  company  which  they  frequent  the 
most.  However,  we  must  not  despair, 
even  if  some  of  ours  do  marry  away 
from  us.  We  must  not  relinquish  our 
hold  upon  them  or  slacken  our  efforts 
to  try  to  persuade,  as  long  as  life  shall 
last. 

Finally,  our  leaders  say  that  because 
of  the  fashions  of  the  day  our  young 
people  are  persuaded  to  marry  out  of  the 
Church.  They  desire  a  so-called  church 
wedding  with  much  pomp  and  cere- 
mony, some  because  they  prefer  a  sort 
of  semi-nudity  in  their  social  life  that 
is  not  permitted  in  those  who  have 
obeyed  the  basic  requirements  of  the 
temple  which  counsel  as  to  modesty  in 
dress.  Careless  mothers  who  permit 
even  in  childhood  or  babyhood  nudity 
or  semi-nudity  in  dress  are  but  sowing 
the  seeds  of  disregard  for  standards  of 
modesty  which  if  taught  and  adhered 
to  in  her  growing  up  years  will  prepare 
a  daughter  for  entrance  into  the  holy 
and  sacred  ordinances  of  the  Lord. 

I  listened  to  a  young  lad  I  was  inter- 
viewing for  a  mission  in  Canada,  and 
as  I  talked  to  him  to  inquire  whether 
he  had  kept  himself  morally  clean,  he 
smiled,  this  handsome,  fine  son,  and 
replied,  "I  will  have  to  tell  you  what 
my  mother  told  me.  She  said,  'Son,  no 
mother  can  raise  a  fine  son  without  the 
aid  of  a  pure,  sweet  girl  to  help  her. 
Be  sure,  then,  Son,  you  choose  the  right 
kind  of  girl  companion.' "  He  said,  "I 
have  done  that,  and  I  am  clean,  as  my 
mother  has  counseled  me  to  be." 

Our  boys  overseas  have  looked  for- 
ward to  the  day  when  they  could  come 
home  and  marry  sweet,  clean  girls. 

Some  time  ago,  I  wrote  something  to 
the  mothers  of  the  Church  about  pre- 
paring their  daughters  to  enter  the  tem- 
ple: 

In  this  day,  the  fashions,  the  sham,  the 
pretenses,  and  the  glamour  of  the  world 
have  badly  distorted  the  holy  concept  of 
home  and  marriage,  and  even  the  marriage 
ceremony  itself.  Blessed  is  the  wise  mother 
who  paints  a  living  picture  to  her  daughter 
of  a  sacred  scene  in  an  exquisite,  heavenly 
sealing  room  where,  shut  out  from  all  that 
is  worldly,  and  in  the  presence  of  parents 
and  intimate  family  friends,  a  beautiful, 
youthful  bride  and  groom  clasp  hands 
across  a  holy  altar.     Thank  God  for  that 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

mother  who  shows  her  daughter  that  here, 
nearest  to  heaven  on  earth,  heart  com- 
munes with  heart,  in  a  mutuality  of  love 
that  begins  a  oneness  which  defies  the 
ravages  of  hardship,  heartaches,  or  disap- 
pointments to  destroy,  and  supplies  the 
greatest  stimulus  for  life's  highest  attain- 
ments! (Relief  Society  Magazine,  June  1955, 
p.  351.) 

And  now  may  I  close  with  one  more 
incident.  I  was  attending  a  stake  con- 
ference where  a  mother  was  asked  to 
speak  of  the  joys  that  had  now  come 
since  she  and  her  husband  had  together 
been  to  the  temple.  She  said  when 
they  were  married  he  was  a  fine,  hon- 
orable man,  but  he  had  some  habits 
that  did  not  permit  him  to  hold  the 
priesthood.  He  said,  "If  you  will  join 
me  in  a  civil  marriage,  I  promise  you  I 
will  get  in  shape,  and  I  will  get  a 
recommend  and  take  you  to  the  temple." 
He  was  like  the  man  who  said  he  knew 
he  could  stop  smoking  because  he  had 
done  it  a  thousand  times. 

So  he  tried  all  through  these  years 
but  had  never  been  successful.  Before 
he  was  ready,  they  had  five  lovely  girls 
in  their  family.  But  now  somebody 
touched  the  heart  of  this  man;  he  was 
given  the  priesthood  and  a  recommend; 
and  they  went  to  the  temple.  She  de- 
scribed the  going  to  the  temple  and 
what  it  meant,  and  how  finally  they 
came  into  that  most  beautiful  of  all 
the  rooms  in  the  temple,  and  as  they 
knelt  at  the  altar,  their  five  little  girls 
dressed  in  beautiful  white  dresses  came 
in  and  took  their  places  around  the  altar, 
and  there  a  man  of  God  pronounced 
them  a  family  for  eternity. 

Her  story  was  impressively  told  and 
touched  every  heart.  Then  she  leaned 
over  the  pulpit.  Sitting  right  down  in 
the  front  seat  was  her  husband.  She 
looked  down  at  him,  and  for  that  mo- 
ment she  seemed  to  forget  that  there 
was  anybody  else  in  the  room  but  just 
the  two  of  them.  She  said  to  him, 
"Daddy,  I  don't  know  how  to  tell  you 
how  the  girls  and  I  feel  about  what  you 
have  done  for  us.  I  guess  all  we  can 
say  is,  Daddy,  thanks  from  the  bottom 
of  our  hearts,  because  except  for  you,  the 
girls  and  I  would  never  have  a  chance 
to  be  a  family  together  in  the  celestial 
kingdom.  Thank  God  for  you,  Daddy, 
and  for  what  you  have  done  for  us." 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 


25 


Oh,  that  every  father-heart  in  this 
whole  Church  could  hear  the  cry  of 
that  mother-heart,  and  before  it  is  too 
late,  prepare  himself  to  go  and  to  enter 
into  this  sacred  ordinance,  for  which  I 
pray  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Harold  B.  Lee  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder 
Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Elder  Sonne  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Levi  Edgar  Young. 


ELDER  ALMA  SONNE 
Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IN  this  position,  brethren  and  sisters, 
one  always  becomes  conscious  of  his 
limitations.  The  other  day  I  read 
in  a  local  newspaper  about  a  sarcastic 
lawyer  who  was  making  it  pretty  rough 
for  the  witness.  The  lawyer  said,  "Did 
you  see  the  accident?"  The  witness 
replied,  "Yes,  sir." 

"How  far  away  were  you?" 

The  witness  said,  "Oh,  about  thirty 
feet." 

"Well,  how  far  can  you  see  anyway?" 

He  said,  "I  do  not  know,  but  in  the 
morning  when  I  wake  up  I  can  see  the 
sun,  and  they  tell  me  it  is  about  ninety 
million  miles  away." 

I  shall  always  appreciate  the  fact 
that  the  missionaries  of  the  Church 
found  my  grandparents  in  faraway 
Scandinavia.  That  circumstance  ac- 
counts for  my  greatest  blessing  in  this 
life.  As  a  result,  I  have  grown  up  in 
the  Church  among  God's  people  in  these 
valleys  of  the  mountains.  From  my 
earliest  recollections,  I  was  taught  faith 
in  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and  in  the 
promises  and  the  predictions  of  holy 
prophets.  I  recall  that  I  was  very  young 
when  I  first  heard  the  story  of  the 
restoration  and  the  coming  forth  of 
the  Book  of  Mormon.  I  believed  it 
then  as  I  believe  it  now.  I  knew  then 
as  I  know  now  that  my  grandparents 
had  not  been  misled. 

As  a  young  man  doing  missionary 
work  over  in  England,  I  became  the 
private  secretary  to  President  Charles 
W.  Penrose  and  to  President  Rudger 
Clawson.  From  them  I  learned  many 
things  which  confirmed  my  belief  and 
strengthened  my  testimony.  Since  then 
I  have  examined  the  claims  of  Joseph 
Smith,  the  Prophet.  I  have  weighed 
and    tested    every    doctrine    and    every 


teaching  of  the  Church.  I  have  com- 
pared them  with  the  teachings  of  other 
churches.  The  gospel  message  as  re- 
vealed through  the  latter-day  Prophet 
is  complete  and  soul-satisfying.  It  is 
the  power  of  God  unto  salvation. 

I  know  this,  and  I  testify  to  you  that 
I  do  know  it.  No  alterations  and  no 
far-fetched  explanations  have  been 
necessary.  The  original  declarations 
made  by  Joseph  still  stand.  They  can- 
not and  have  not  been  changed  to 
satisfy  the  whims  of  critics,  either  in 
the  Church  or  out  of  the  Church. 

In  the  year  1829  the  Book  of  Mormon 
appeared.  It  was  received  with  an 
avalanche  of  abuse  and  ridicule.  It 
was  repudiated  and  cast  aside  as  being 
unworthy  of  study  and  serious  con- 
sideration. But,  my  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, the  tide  is  turning.  It  is  turning 
with  marvelous  rapidity  in  these,  our 
days.  Thinking  men  are  beginning  to 
regard  it  as  a  powerful  book  with  a 
great  message.  It  has  had  wide  distri- 
bution. Many  translations  have  been 
made.  It  reveals  God's  purposes  with 
respect  to  man's  sojourn  in  mortality. 
It  brings  to  light  the  results  of  skepti- 
cism and  wrongdoing.  It  emphasizes  the 
sanctity  and  durability  of  divine  com- 
mandments in  directing  men  in  this 
striving  for  God's  favors  and  blessing. 
It  confirms  the  teachings  of  the  Holy 
Bible,  and  proclaims  the  deityship  of 
Jesus  Christ,  the  resurrection,  and  the 
atonement  wrought  out  on  Calvary. 

There  is  much  controversy  in  these 
modern  times  even  among  so-called 
Christian  leaders  concerning  these  re- 
ligious fundamentals.  Once  they  were 
regarded  as  the  rock  foundation  of  the 
Christian  religion.  The  coming  forth 
of  the  Book  of  Mormon  is  a  part  of  the 


26 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

"marvelous  work  and  a  wonder,"  pro- 
claimed and  prophesied  by  Isaiah,  the 
great  prophet.  The  spirit  of  the  book 
convinces  a  sincere  reader  of  its  divine 
origin.  The  book  is  not  a  product  of 
man's  genius  or  man's  learning.  It  is 
a  revelation  from  Almighty  God. 

It  is  a  message  to  the  modern  world 
from  an  ancient  race  who  went  down 
because  they  failed  to  live  to  the  light 
which  God  had  given  them.  But  the 
teachings  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  are 
timely.  They  fit  into  our  lives  today 
as  we  live  amid  conditions  around  us. 
They  come  as  a  warning  to  those  who 
are  inclined  to  trifle  with  the  injunc- 
tions of  an  overruling  providence.  The 
sacred  volume  is  also  a  continuing  and 
compelling  testimony  of  the  divine  call- 
ing of  Joseph  Smith,  the  Prophet.  As 
with  the  Book  of  Mormon,  so  with  the 
revelations  contained  in  the  Doctrine 
and  Covenants.  They  furnish  a  solid 
foundation  for  the  exercise  of  faith  and 
the  development  of  spirituality. 

These  scriptural  productions  confirm 
and  clarify  the  ancient  scriptures  known 
as  the  Old  and  New  Testaments.  As 
an  example  I  read  from  the  thirty- 
seventh  chapter  of  Ezekiel: 

Moreover,  thou  son  of  man,  take  thee 
one  stick,  and  write  upon  it,  For  Judah, 
and  for  the  children  of  Israel  his  compan- 
ions: then  take  another  stick,  and  write 
upon  it,  For  Joseph,  the  stick  of  Ephraim, 
and  for  all  the  house  of  Israel  his  com- 
panions: 

And  join  them  one  to  another  into  one 
stick;  and  they  shall  become  one  in  thine 
hand.    (Ezek.  37:16-17.) 

Biblical  scholars  have  failed  to  offer 
a  satisfactory  explanation  of  this 
prophetic  utterance.  Where  is  the  stick 
of  Joseph,  also  called  the  stick  of 
Ephraim?  How  shall  this  stick,  or 
book,  be  joined  with  the  stick  of  Judah, 
or  the  Bible?  How  can  these  sticks 
become  one  in  the  hands  of  God  for 
the  enlightenment  of  humanity?  The 
Book  of  Mormon  answers  these  ques- 
tions. It  is  the  only  answer.  The  Book 
of  Mormon,  as  you  know,  is  a  powerful 
witness.  It  is  a  builder  of  faith.  It  is 
a  converter  of  souls  to  the  truth,  and 
the  Book  of  Mormon  is  true,  and  truth 


First  Day 

will  triumph  even  against   strong  and 
determined  opposition. 

As  a  boy  I  attended  a  little  chapel 
on  the  walls  of  which  appeared  in  bold 
lettering  these  words:  "Truth  Will  Pre- 
vail." I  often  read  it.  Everybody  read 
it.  They  had  to.  It  was  there  before 
their  eyes.  It  was  like  a  battle  cry  in 
those  days  of  opposition  and  persecu- 
tion. Truth  will  eventually  break  in 
pieces  all  the  substitutes  which  confuse 
and  bewilder  a  faithless  and  an  unre- 
pentant world.  I  recall  the  words  often 
repeated  by   Elder  Orson   F.   Whitney, 

Truth   is   truth  where'er  'tis  found 
On  Christian  or  on  heathen  ground. 

I  am  also  reminded  of  the  poem  which 
has  taken  a  place  in  the  classics  of  our 
literature. 

Then  say,  what  is  truth?    'Tis  the  last  and 

the   first, 
For  the  limits  of  time  it  steps  o'er. 
Though  the  heavens  depart  and  the  earth's 

fountains  burst, 
Truth,   the  sum   of  existence,  will  weather 

the  worst, 
Eternal,  unchanged,  evermore. 

— John  Jaques 

Now,  in  conclusion,  may  I  read 
Carlyle's  statement: 

Fight  on,  through  dark  fortune,  and 
through  bright.  The  Cause  thou  fightest 
for  so  far  as  it  is  true,  no  further,  but  pre- 
cisely so  far,  is  very  sure  of  victory.  The 
falsehood  of  it  alone  will  be  conquered, 
will  be  abolished,  as  it  should  be,  but  the 
truth  of  it  is  a  part  of  Nature's  own  laws, 
co-operates  with  the  world's  eternal  tenden- 
cies and   cannot  be  conquered. 

I  testify  that  Mormonism,  so-called,  is 
true;  that  it  is  the  power  of  God  unto 
salvation;  that  it  is  the  same  gospel 
which  Peter  and  Paul  preached,  and 
which  was  taught  by  the  Savior  of  men. 
May  we  remember  it,  and  may  we  ad- 
here to  its  saving  principles,  I  pray  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Alma  Sonne,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  has  just  concluded  speaking.  We 
shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Levi  Edgar 
Young  of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


27 


ELDER  LEVI  EDGAR  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay  and  Counselors: 
my  brethren  and  sisters:  I  should 
like  to  say  something  about  a  peo- 
ple whom  we  all  know  and  respect.  I 
refer  to  the  Jewish  race  who  today  are 
suffering  in  their  native  land  of  Pales- 
tine because  of  peoples  who  are  deter- 
mined to  drive  them  from  their  homes — 
homes  that  have  belonged  to  them  from 
the  far  distant  ages.  In  every  period 
of  the  world's  history,  the  Jewish  people 
have  stood  for  the  brotherhood  of  man- 
kind and  have  recognized  that  God 
gave  the  world  its  first  children  who 
came  from  heaven.  From  the  days  of 
Abraham,  the  Jews  have  maintained 
their  identity  as  have  no  other  people 
in  history.  They  have  remained  one 
race  in  blood,  instinct,  and  faith  in  one 
Supreme  Being.  They  still  follow 
the  words  of  the  Prophet  Jeremiah  when 
he  addressed  the  Jewish  captives  in 
Babylon: 

Build  ye  houses  and  dwell  in  them;  and 
plant  gardens,  and  eat  the  fruit  of  them; 

And  seek  the  peace  of  the  city  whither 
I  have  caused  you  to  be  carried  away  cap- 
tives, and  pray  unto  the  Lord  for  it  [his 
blessings]  ...  ye  shall  have  peace.  (Jer. 
29:5,  7.) 

What  great  help  the  Jews  of  all  ages 
have  given  to  the  divine  principles  of 
life!  Levinger  in  his  History  of  the  Jews 
tells  us  that  Columbus  had  with  him  on 
his  first  voyage,  five  Jews,  including  the 
man  who  first  stepped  on  American 
soil.  When  they  reached  the  first  little 
island,  the  interpreter,  who  was  a  Jew, 
was  the  first  man  to  write  a  descrip- 
tion of  the  land.  In  the  chronological 
writings  of  Padre  Claudio  Clemente  is 
preserved  a  form  of  prayer  said  to  have 
been  used  by  Columbus  on  Friday 
morning,  October  12,  as  he  stepped  on 
the  land  of  the  New  World.  The 
prayer  was  used  by  Cortez,  Balboa,  and 
Pizarro  in  their  discoveries. 

Columbus  declared  in  one  of  his  let- 
ters to  the  king  and  queen  of  Spain  that 
he  was  the  "agent  in  the  hand  of  God 
to  go  forth  upon  the  mighty  deep."  Ac- 
cording to  Washington  Irving,  Colum- 
bus, when  he  set  foot  on  the  island  of 
San    Salvador,    uttered    the    following 


prayer,  which  has  been  translated  from 
the  Latin: 

0  God,  our  Father,  eternal  and  omnip- 
otent, creator  of  heaven  and  earth  and 
sea,  we  glorify  Thy  Holy  name,  praise  Thy 
majesty,  whom  we  serve  in  all  humility, 
we  give  unto  Thy  Holy  protection  this  new 
part  of  the  world. 

Jews  continued  coming  to  America, 
but  they  were  poor  lowly  immigrants, 
and  their  suffering  was  something  ter- 
rible. And  yet,  the  Jews  were  ever  ready 
to  help  in  times  of  distress.  During  the 
American  Revolution,  the  "great  major- 
ity of  the  Jews  in  the  thirteen  colonies 
were  ardent  in  the  cause  of  Liberty. 
Jews  were  elected  to  the  Continental 
Congress."  And  many  of  them  in  every 
colony  advanced  all  the  money  they 
had  to  help  the  American  army.  The 
man  who  did  more,  however,  than  any 
other  Jew,  was  Haym  Salomon,  a 
wealthy  Jew  who  lived  in  Philadelphia. 
Haym  Salomon  was  a  native  of  Poland. 
He  was  liberally  educated,  and  his 
family  was  very  cultured.  Robert  Morris 
writes  in  his  journal: 

1  sent  to  Haym  Salomon  and  desired  in 
every  way  to  have  him  raise  funds  for  the 
army.    The  men  were  starving  everywhere. 

Haym  Salomon  responded.  He  first 
gave  money  to  the  starving  soldiers  and 
then  to  such  men  as  Jefferson,  Washing- 
ton, and  James  Madison.  At  the  close 
of  the  war,  he  had  given  all  he  had, 
$700,000,  and  within  a  few  months,  it 
is  said,  Salomon  died  of  starvation.  The 
family  was  never  reimbursed,  and  the 
wife  and  children  suffered  greatly,  ow- 
ing, of  course,  to  the  death  of  husband 
and  father.  Theirs  was  a  great  sacrifice 
for  the  gaining  of  American  independ- 
ence. 

The  place  held  by  the  Jews  in  creating 
our  English  literature  is  now  becoming 
known.  The  character  of  Shylock  in 
Shakespeare's  famous  comedy  sums  up 
the  tragic  position  of  the  Jew  in 
medieval  Europe.  The  German,  Lessing, 
in  his  Nathan  the  Wise  was  instru- 
mental in  having  the  ideals  of  the 
Jews   understood.     And   it  was   a  Jew, 


28 

Friday,  April  5 

Spinoza,  who  helped  to  bring  about  the 
enlightenment  which  enabled  the  Jews 
to  take  a  place  in  modern  society.  We 
can  hardly  realize  the  large  number  of 
Jewish  writers  who  have  created  the 
literature  of  America.  Fannie  Hurst, 
Edna  Ferber,  Sholem  Asch,  and  Robert 
Nathan  are  only  a  few  of  the  many 
famous  Jewish  writers  here  in  our  coun- 
try. You  no  doubt  have  read  Israel 
Zangwill's  The  Melting  Pot,  which  is 
a  direct  outcome  of  his  visit  to  America. 

The  Jewish  people  have  had  their 
own  music  since  the  days  of  Abraham 
when  they  used  to  sing  and  dance  in 
their  sacred  meetings.  And  to  think 
of  the  famous  Jewish  actors  on  the 
American  stage  who  gave  renown  to  the 
old  Salt  Lake  Theatre.  It  was  Charles 
Frohman  who  once  declared  that  the 
Mormon  theatre  in  Salt  Lake  City 
seemed  to  have  a  spirit  of  light  that 
made  the  actors  play  at  their  very  best. 
Charles  Frohman  lost  his  life  when  the 
Lusitania  went  down  some  years  ago. 
As  he  stood  on  the  deck  of  the  ship 
trying  to  comfort  the  passengers  that 
were  weeping  and  praying,  he  said, 
"Why  fear  death.  ...  it  is  the  most 
beautiful  experience  of  life." 

The  history  of  the  Jews  through  all 
the  ages  beginning  with  the  Holy  Bible 
is  a  story  of  faith,  love  of  God,  and 
tenderness  for  all  mankind  that  someday 
will  become  known. 

In  September  1823,  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  prayed  to  the  Lord  to  for- 
give him  his  imperfections,  and  in  an- 
swer to  his  humble  pleading  God  gave 
him  a  vision,  and  a  glorious  person  stood 
before  him.  "When  I  first  looked  upon 
him,"  said  Joseph, 

I  was  afraid,  but  the  fear  soon  left  me. 

He  called  me  by  name,  and  said  unto 
me  that  he  was  a  messenger  sent  from  the 
presence  of  God  to  me,  and  that  his  name 
was  Moroni;  and  that  God  had  a  work  for 
me  to  do;  .  .  .  (J.  S.  2:32-33.) 

The  Angel  Moroni  then  quoted  the 
eleventh  chapter  of  Isaiah,  saying  it  was 
about  to  be  fulfilled. 

Knowing  this  historic  fact,  the  sculp- 
tor, Cyrus  Dallin,  made  the  Angel 
Moroni  that  graces  the  central  tower  of 
our  Salt  Lake  Temple. 

And  now  comes  an  event  in  the  his- 
tory of  the  Church  that  causes  the  most 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

intensive  faith  in  the  work  of  God  in 
this  day.  The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith 
sent  Apostle  Orson  Hyde  to  the  Holy 
Land  in  1841,  where  he  dedicated  the 
land  for  the  return  of  the  children  of 
Judah.  The  prayer  was  prophetic  in 
every  way.  Beautiful  are  the  words  of 
Orson  Hyde  as  he  prayed  to  God  that 
the  Holy  Land  of  the  Jews  should  be 
saved.  I  give  only  a  few  words  of  the 
prayer: 

Now,  O  Lord!  Thy  servant  has  been 
obedient  to  the  heavenly  vision  which  Thou 
gavest  him  in  his  native  land;  and  under 
the  shadow  of  Thine  outstretched  arm,  he 
has  safely  arrived  in  this  place  to  dedicate 
and  consecrate  this  land  unto  Thee,  for 
the  gathering  together  of  Judah's  scattered 
remnants,  according  to  the  predictions  of 
the  holy  Prophets — for  the  building  up  of 
Jerusalem  again  after  it  has  been  trodden 
down  by  the  Gentiles  so  long,  and  for  rear- 
ing a  Temple  in  honor  of  Thy  name.  .  .  . 

Grant,  therefore,  O  Lord,  in  the  name  of 
Thy  well-beloved  Son,  Jesus  Christ,  to  re- 
move the  barrenness  and  sterility  of  this 
land,  and  let  springs  of  living  water  break 
forth  to  water  its  thirsty  soil.  Let  the  vine 
and  olive  produce  in  their  strength,  and 
the  fig-tree  bloom  and  flourish.  Let  the 
land  become  abundantly  fruitful  when 
possessed  by  its  rightful  heirs;  let  it  again 
flow  with  plenty  to  feed  the  returning 
prodigals  who  come  home  with  a  spirit  of 
grace  and  supplication;  upon  it  let  the 
clouds  distil  virtue  and  richness,  and  let 
the  fields  smile  with  plenty.  Let  the  flocks 
and  the  herds  greatly  increase  and  multiply 
upon  the  mountains  and  the  hills;  and  let 
Thy  great  kindness  conquer  and  subdue 
the  unbelief  of  Thy  people.  Do  Thou 
take  from  them  their  stony  heart,  and  give 
them  a  heart  of  flesh;  and  may  the  Sun  of 
Thy  favor  dispel  the  cold  mists  of  dark- 
ness which  have  beclouded  their  atmosphere. 
Incline  them  to  gather  in  upon  this  land 
according  to  Thy  word.  Let  them  come  like 
clouds  and  like  doves  to  their  windows.  Let 
the  large  ships  of  the  nations  bring  them 
from  the  distant  isles;  and  let  kings  become 
their  nursing  fathers,  and  queens  with 
motherly  fondness  wipe  the  tear  of  sorrow 
from  their  eye.  (D  H  C  4:456-7,  italics 
added.) 

How  beautifully  the  Prophet  Isaiah 
has  given  words  of  encouragement  to 
Zion: 

O  Zion,  that  bringest  good  tidings,  get 
thee  up  into  the  high  mountain;  O  Jeru- 
salem, that  bringeth  good  tidings,  Lift  up 
thy  voice  with  strength;  lift  it  up,  be  not 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 


29 


afraid;  say  unto  the  cities  of  Judah,  Behold 
your  God! 

Behold,  the  Lord  God  will  come  with 
strong  hand,  And  his  arm  shall  rule  for 
him.   (Isaiah  40:9-10.) 

May  we  give  our  faith  and  prayers  to 
the  Jewish  people  in  all  the  world  this 
day,  I  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  to  whom  you  have  just 
listened  is  Elder  Levi  Edgar  Young  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy.  The  Choir 
and  Congregation  will  now  join  in  sing- 


ing: "Come,  Come  Ye  Saints,"  led  by 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall.  After  'the 
singing  Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  will 
address  us. 

The  congregation  and  the  Combined 
Choruses  joined  in  singing  the  hymn, 
"Come,  Come  Ye  Saints,"  led  by  Brother 
J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Tabernacle  Choir 
director. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  will  now 
speak  to  us.  Bishop  Buehner  will  be  fol- 
lowed by  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle. 


BISHOP  CARL  W.  BUEHNER 

Second  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


w 


\y  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  would 
like  to  dedicate  the  few  moments 
allotted  to  me  to  the  faithful  youth 
of  the  Church,  who  in  my  opinion  are 
carrying  their  full  load  as  true 
champions.  Their  records  have  never 
been  better.  Their  influence  is  felt  for 
good  far  and  wide.  I  am  sure  their 
influence  has  been  felt  in  the  home. 
There  they  have  helped  to  develop  the 
spirit  of  "love  at  home"  and  bring 
strength  to  the  family. 

Their  searching  questions  have  done 
much  to  stimulate  inactive  parents  to 
activity  and  faithfulness  in  the  Church. 
I  would  like  to  relate  a  few  little  ex- 
periences that  have  come  to  me  which 
have  impressed  this  on  my  mind.  The 
first  is  a  story  about  a  little  boy  named 
Mark. 

While  I  was  attending  a  youth  con- 
ference up  north  recently,  during  the 
evening's  entertainment  it  was  an- 
nounced that  a  little  boy  named  Mark 
would  play  some  piano  solos.  The 
master  of  ceremonies  suggested  that  he 
would  like  to  have  Mark's  father  come 
forward  with  him  and  introduce  him. 
They  both  came  up  front  to  the  micro- 
phone. The  father  explained  that 
when  little  Mark  was  only  two  months 
of  age,  his  eyes  had  to  be  removed  from 
their  sockets  because  of  cancer.  When 
Mark  became  about  two  and  one-half 
years  of  age,  he  found  his  way  to   a 


piano  and  there  began  to  play  some 
little  simple  pieces  of  music.  Mark 
is  now  six  years  of  age,  and  he  was 
going  to  play  some  piano  solos  for  us. 
As  his  father  was  talking  about 
Mark,  he  said,  "Mark  just  loves  to  play 
the  piano;  Mark  just  loves  to  play  the  or- 
gan; Mark  just  loves  to  play  the  trumpet; 
and  Mark  just  loves  to  play  the 
string  instruments."  About  this  time, 
Mark's  little  high  voice  came  ringing 
out,  and  he  said,  "Daddy,  I  love  you, 
too."  You  could  feel  an  affinity  be- 
tween a  father  and  a  son  that  was 
wonderful.  Then  the  father  took  little 
Mark  over  to  the  piano.  Being  a  very 
small  boy,  he  could  not  reach  from  one 
end  of  it  to  the  other,  so  he  went  first 
to  the  left  side,  found  the  end  of  the 
piano,  then  walked  to  the  right  side 
and  located  the  other  end.  Then  stand- 
ing on  the  tip  of  his  toes  and  straining 
every  muscle  of  his  body,  Mark  reached 
for  the  top  of  the  piano.  This  he  could 
scarcely  do.  When  he  had  become 
oriented,  he  mounted  the  piano  bench 
and  played  three  numbers  with  the 
finesse  of  a  professional.  Mark  inspired 
every  person  there  that  night.  Mark, 
if  you  are  listening,  I  would  like  to  tell 
you  that  you  are  on  your  way  to  becom- 
ing a  great  man.  I  feel  some  of  us  with 
all  our  faculties  will  never  be  as  ac- 
complished as  little  Mark  who  lost  his 
eyesight  when  he  was  only  two  months 
of  age. 


30 

Friday,  April  5 

I  think  of  a  father  of  a  large  family 
who  have  recently  become  members  of 
the  Church.  This  father  was  invited  to 
give  a  short  talk  at  one  of  the  sessions 
of  our  quarterly  conferences.  The  chil- 
dren were  very  proud  of  their  dad,  and 
as  he  was  speaking  to  us,  he  said,  "Do 
you  know  I  changed  my  necktie  six 
times  this  morning.  Each  of  my  chil- 
dren had  an  idea  I  would  look  better 
in  another  necktie."  I  thought  two  things 
about  this — how  wonderful  it  is  to  have 
six  different  possibilities  in  the  way  of 
neckties  to  wear  with  a  suit,  and  how 
proud  these  children  were  of  their  dad. 
They  wanted  him  to  look  his  very  best 
when  he  addressed  our  quarterly  con- 
ference that  morning.  I  appreciate  this 
in  these  children.  There  may  have  been 
some  younger  who  could  not  express 
their  opinion — this  story  just  represented 
the  six  who  could.  I  enjoyed  the  feel- 
ing of  love  felt  in  that  home  between 
these  children  and  their  parents. 

Recently,  I  heard  the  story  of  another 
man  who  is  now  just  coming  into  activ- 
ity in  the  Church.  He  indicated  that 
his  son  came  to  him  and  said,  "Dad,  do 
you  know  what  tomorrow  is?"  To  which 
the  father  replied,  "Yes,  my  boy,  you 
will  be  eight  years  of  age."  "That's 
right,  Dad,"  he  said,  "and  do  you  know 
what  that  means?"  The  father  indi- 
cated that  he  did  and  said,  "I  have 
been  thinking  about  this,  Son,  I  have 
spoken  to  the  bishop,  and  we  have  made 
arrangements  to  have  someone  baptize 
you."  To  this  the  boy  replied,  "But, 
Dad,  I  don't  want  just  someone  to 
baptize  me — I  want  you  to  baptize  me." 
The  countenance  of  the  father  fell,  and 
he  appeared  very  embarrassed  as  he  had 
to  say  to  his  son,  "Because  of  my  in- 
activity in  the  Church,  I  only  hold  the 
office  of  a  deacon  and  that  does  not 
carry  with  it  the  authority  to  baptize." 
To  this  the  boy  said,  "Dad,  I'll  wait." 

"Just  think  of  the  responsibility  that 
was  placed  on  my  shoulders,"  the  father 
continued.  "Now  I  was  preventing  my 
son  from  becoming  a  member  of  this 
Church.  Because  of  my  inactivity  and 
because  I  had  not  been  advanced  in  the 
priesthood,  this  prevented  me  from  en- 
joying the  privilege  of  baptizing  my  son 
a  member  of  the  Church." 

However,  the  challenge  worked.  This 
good  father  really  went  to  work,  and  he 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

indicated  that  within  a  few  months  he 
had  qualified  himself  to  be  ordained  a 
priest  and  had  the  honor  of  officiating 
at  the  baptism  of  his  son. 

I  heard  another  impressive  story  of  a 
different  nature.  I  was  in  the  home  of 
some  wonderful  people  that  I  met  dur- 
ing a  recent  quarterly  conference  in 
California.  There  were  a  father  and  a 
mother  who  had  five  children.  The 
mother  was  to  have  a  serious  operation 
and  was  very  much  concerned  about  it, 
as  any  of  us  would  be  if  we  were  to  go 
through  the  same  ordeal.  The  children 
in  the  home  began  to  sense  the  anxiety 
of  their  mother  as  she  was  preparing  to 
leave  home  and  enter  the  hospital.  They 
realized  the  seriousness  of  what  might 
happen.  A  day  or  two  before  the  mother 
left  for  the  hospital,  one  of  the  younger 
boys,  about  six  years  of  age,  came  to  her 
and  said,  "Mother,  everything  is  going 
to  be  all  right.  I  talked  to  the  Lord 
last  night  about  your  condition.  I  told 
him  you  were  going  to  undergo  a  serious 
operation  and  that  you  were  worried 
about  it.  The  Lord  understands,  Moth- 
er, and  everything  is  going  to  be  all 
right."  To  this  she  said,  "You  know, 
a  calmness  came  over  me.  I  knew 
everything  would  turn  out  all  right,  and 
it  did."  Later  she  said  to  me,  "This 
little  boy  would  never  think  of  going  to 
bed  at  night  without  first  offering  his 
prayer  to  his  Heavenly  Father.  Some 
of  the  other  children  might,  but  not  this 
boy."  You  must  admit  with  me  that 
young  people  with  such  faith  exercise 
a  great  influence  in  the  home. 

Another  experience  that  impressed  me 
was  concerning  a  young  lad  who  recent- 
ly attended  a  Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood 
graduation  exercise,  a  little  red-headed 
fellow  and  the  only  youngster  present 
with  the  men  and  women  who  were 
participating  in  this  service.  When  the 
meeting  was  over,  he  came  to  the  spon- 
sors of  the  Senior  Aaronic  Priesthood 
school  to  express  his  appreciation  to 
them  for  what  the  school  had  done  for 
his  dad.  Young  people,  I  think  you  are 
wonderful! 

A  little  girl  eight  years  of  age  came 
home  from  Sunday  School  one  morn- 
ing and  said  to  her  father,  "You  know, 
Dad,  I  have  been  learning  some  won- 
derful things  about  heaven  and  what 
we  must  do  to  have  a  home  with  our 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


31 


Heavenly  Father  when  we  leave  here. 
I  would  like  to  ask  you  a  question.  What 
is  going  to  happen  to  us  if  I  keep  doing 
the  things  my  Sunday  School  teacher 
has  been  telling  me  to  do,  and  you  keep 
doing  the  things  I  have  seen  you  do?" 
The  father  said,  "I  could  not  answer 
my  daughter,  and  it  disturbed  me.  That 
night  I  called  the  bishop  to  see  which 
night  of  the  week  they  held  priesthood 
meeting.  You  can  tell  how  long  I  have 
been  away  from  Church — they  don't 
hold  priesthood  meeting  in  the  eve- 
nings any  more.  The  bishop  was  not 
at  home,  but  his  wife  indicated  I  should 
call  the  ward  clerk.  This  I  did,  and  he 
told  me  the  time  that  the  priesthood 
meeting  now  convened  on  Sunday 
morning.  He  further  said,  'I  will  be 
looking  for  you.  I  am  a  little  sandy- 
haired  man,  and  will  have  on  a  light 
gray  suit.  I  will  meet  you  at  the  door 
when  you  come  Sunday  morning.'  Then 
I  said  to  him,  'So  you  will  know  who  I 
am,  I  weigh  about  two-hundred  pounds. 
I  have  black  curly  hair  and  will  be 
wearing  a  blue  suit.'  When  I  ap- 
proached the  chapel  on  Sunday  morn- 
ing I  saw  the  clerk,  and  standing  next 
to  him  was  a  very  large  man  who 
turned  out  to  be  the  bishop  of  the  ward. 
The  challenge  by  my  daughter  started 
me  back  into  activity  in  this  Church  of 


ours.     I    am    now    an    assistant   ward 
clerk." 

I  see  that  my  time  has  gone.  I  have 
some  more  stories  to  relate — someday 
I  might  write  a  book,  and  you  can  read 
them  then.     [Laughter.] 

In  conclusion  I  should  like  to  say, 
God  bless  the  youth  of  the  Church.  I 
love  them.  I  love  to  work  with  them. 
They  are  doing  great  things,  and  I  am 
sure  their  faces  are  turned  in  the  right 
direction.  If  those  of  us  who  have  to 
do  with  these  young  people  will  give  of 
our  time  to  assist  them  so  that  their 
lives  will  follow  the  course  that  is  set 
for  them,  which  will  lead  them  back 
into  eternal  life,  joy  and  happiness  will 
not  only  be  theirs  but  ours.  May  it  be 
so,  and  may  our  Heavenly  Father's  bless- 
ings be  with  us,  each  and  every  one,  I 
humbly  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Carl  W.  Buehner  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  The  Presiding  Bishopric  of 
the  Church  hold  the  Presidency  of  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood.  We  shall  now 
hear  from  Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1am  deeply  appreciative,  my  brethren 
and  sisters,  of  this  opportunity,  and 
especially  to  have  felt  the  wonder- 
ful spirit  that  has  been  with  us  in  these 
meetings.  I  am  sure  it  has  come  to  us 
in  large  measure  as  a  result  of  the  in- 
spired opening  remarks  of  our  beloved 
President.  I  hope  that  that  same  in- 
spiration may  continue  with  me  for 
the  next  few  moments. 

There  is  a  passage  in  the  scripture 
that  has  impressed  itself  upon  me  re- 
cently very  much.    It  was  Job  who  said: 

There  is  a  spirit  in  man:  and  the  in- 
spiration of  the  Almighty  giveth  them  un- 
derstanding.  (Job  32:8.) 

Born  of  this  inspiration  is  the  testi- 


mony we  have  of  the  divinity  of  the 
Savior  of  mankind.  We  know  and  bear 
witness  to  the  world  that  he  is  the  only 
Begotten  Son  of  the  Father,  the  Redeem- 
er of  mankind,  the  Lord  God  Almighty. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  tells  us 
that  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  medium 
through  which  inspiration  is  transmit- 
ted to  us  from  on  high  and  that  the  re- 
ception of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  the  distin- 
guishing characteristic  of  Latter-day 
Saints. 

Paul  made  clear  to  the  Corinthians 
the  true  relationship  between  the  Holy 
Ghost  and  our  personal  testimony  of 
the  divinity  of  the  Savior.    He  said: 

But  the  manifestation  of  the  Spirit  is 
given  to  every  man  to  profit  withal. 


32 

Friday,  April  5 

For  to  one  is  given  by  the  Spirit  the  word 
of  wisdom;  to  another  the  word  of  knowl- 
edge by  the  same  Spirit; 

To  another  faith  by  the  same  Spirit;  to 
another  the  gifts  of  healing  by  the  same 
Spirit; 

To  another  the  working  of  miracles;  to 
another  prophecy;  to  another  discerning  of 
spirits;  to  another  divers  kinds  of  tongues; 
to  another  the  interpretation  of  tongues.  (I 
Cor.  12:7-10.) 

Paul  enumerates  many  gifts  of  the 
Spirit.  The  greatest  gift,  however,  is 
not  the  performing  of  miracles  or  talk- 
ing in  tongues,  or  prophesying,  etc.; 
but  the  inception  of  an  individual  testi- 
mony is  the  greatest  of  all  gifts  of  the 
Spirit.  And  that  is  a  gift  which  comes 
from  God  through  the  Holy  Ghost  and 
can  be  received  by  any  man,  woman, 
or  child  in  the  world  who  desires  to 
know  the  truth.  It  is  at  once  the  great- 
est and  certainly  the  most  universal  of 
all  gifts  born  of  the  Spirit.  It  is  indeed 
the  Comforter  promised  to  all  who, 
through  faith  in  God  and  repentance, 
seek  with  a  contrite  heart  a  remission  of 
sins  in  the  waters  of  baptism. 

It  is  received  by  all  who  thus  qualify 
through  the  laying  on  of  hands  by  those 
in  authority  as  provided  by  the  eternal 
laws  of  God. 

As  surely  as  God  sent  his  Son  to  re- 
deem the  sins  of  the  world,  so  he  sends 
the  Holy  Ghost  to  those  who  seek  divine 
guidance  in  understanding  the  gospel. 

It  is  the  Holy  Ghost,  a  member  of  the 
Godhead,  a  Personage  of  spirit,  who 
inspires  the  souls  of  men  with  an  un- 
derstanding of  God's  will. 

Now  this  inspiration  comes  through 
our  lives  of  worthiness.  Our  testimony 
is  the  foundation  upon  which  we  pro- 
gress. The  inspiration  of  the  Almighty, 
by  and  through  which  we  received  our 
witness,  inspires  us  to  bear  testimony 
to  others  of  our  knowledge  of  God. 

Every  true  convert  to  the  Church  has 
felt  the  twofold  power  of  his  conver- 
sion and  of  this  inspiration — first,  to 
convert  himself,  and  second,  to  assist  in 
the   conversion   of   others. 

It  is  our  purpose  as  members  of  the 
Church  to  consider  constantly  the  place 
of  testimony  in  our  lives.  We  dare  not 
become  complacent  or  unaware  of  this 
priceless  gift  which  is  ours.    When  we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


First  Day 

bear  our  testimony  we  are  teaching  oth- 
ers the  truths  that  have  enriched  our 
lives  and  made  us  happy.  Our  testi- 
monies are  borne — First,  to  give  thanks 
to  God  for  the  knowledge  and  assurance 
he  has  given  us;  second,  to  assist  our 
brethren  and  sisters  in  the  strengthening 
of  their  testimonies;  and  third,  to  carry 
the  conviction  which  is  ours  into  the 
hearts  of  all  other  people  upon  the  face 
of  the  earth. 

We  may  sometimes  find  satisfaction 
in  sharing  our  material  wealth  with  oth- 
ers. But  far  greater  satisfaction  comes 
from  sharing  ourselves,  our  time,  our 
energy,  our  affection,  and  particularly 
in  imparting  to  others  our  testimony  of 
God,  the  power  of  God  unto  salvation, 
the  knowledge  we  possess  of  God  and 
his  purposes.  When  we  are  truly  con- 
verted, we  realize  that  "this  is  life  eter- 
nal, to  know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and 
Jesus  Christ,  whom  thou  has  sent"  (see 
John  17:3),  and  to  sense  our  responsi- 
bility to  others  to  assist  them  in  attain- 
ing eternal  life. 

Christ  said  to  his  disciples  just  prior  to 
his  ascension: 

But  ye  shall  receive  power,  after  that  the 
Holy  Ghost  is  come  upon  you:  and  ye  shall 
be  witnesses  unto  me.  .  .  .  (Acts  1:8.) 

For  thou  shalt  be  his  witness  unto  all 
men (Ibid.,  22:15.) 

We  must  then  constantly  qualify  our- 
selves as  witnesses  of  spiritual  matters. 
One  of  President  McKay's  favorite 
poems  illustrates  the  thought  I  have  in 
mind: 

The  builder  who  first  bridged  Niagara's  gorge 
Before  he  swung  his  cable,  shore  to  shore, 
Sent  out,  across  the  gulf,  his  venturing  kite 
Bearing  slender  cord  for  unseen  hands 
To  grasp  upon  the  further  cliff,  and  draw 
A  greater  cord,  and  a  greater  yet; 
Till  at  last  across  the  chasm  swung 
The  cable — then  a  mighty  bridge  in  air! 
So  we  may  send  our  little  timid  thought 
Across  the  void,  out  to  God's  reaching  hands, 
Send  our  love  and  faith  to  thread  the  deep — 
Thought  after  thought,  until  the  little  cord 
Has  greatened  to  a  chain  no  chance  to  break, 
And  we  are  anchored  to  the  Infinite. 

— Edwin  Markham* 

The  Spirit  then  will  reveal  all  things 
to  us  essential  to  our  mission.  We  must 
be  prepared  to  recognize  and  accept  that 

*Reprinted  by  permission. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


33 


which  the  Spirit  offers,  that  which  the 
Spirit  would  make  clear  to  our  under- 
standings. Then  knowledge  flows  free- 
ly to  us  from  heaven. 

We  know  that  through  obedience  to 
the  principles  of  the  gospel,  all  who  be- 
lieve on  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
endure  in  faith  to  the  end,  shall  be 
saved  in  the  celestial  kingdom  in  the 
presence  of  the  Father. 

We  find  in  the  life  and  works  of  Jo- 
seph Smith  how  the  Spirit  can  magnify 
us  for  our  callings  if  we  but  attune  our 
lives  thereto. 

I  never  expect  to  live  long  enough  to 
see  a  more  wonderful  example  of  that 
inspiration  than  we  witnessed  here  this 
morning  when  President  McKay  spoke 
under  the  inspiration  of  his  high  calling. 

Through  the  witness  of  the  Spirit  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  was  a  Prophet 
of  God,  raised  up  to  fulfil  the  promises 
made  of  old,  to  bring  to  mankind  the 
opportunity  to  become  heir  to  all  of  the 
blessings  the  Lord  has  promised  his 
children  through  the  entire  time  of 
their  sojourn  here  in  mortality  upon  the 
earth. 

And  now  after  120  years  of  terrific 
scrutiny,  the  works  and  testimony  of  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  stand  unim- 
peached.  No  one  can  imagine  a  severer 
cross-examination  than  that  to  which 
he  was  subjected  all  through  his  life. 
By  any  standard,  legal  or  otherwise,  he 
was  an  almost  perfect  witness.  Above 
all,  he  sealed  his  testimony  with  his 
blood. 

We  who  through  the  inspiration  of 
the  Almighty  have  received  his  testi- 
mony, and  that  of  his  faithful  brother 
Hyrum,  are  charged  with  responsibility 
to  accept  and  to  perpetuate  and  add  our 
solemn  witness  thereto,  that  the  blood 
of  this  generation  shall  not  be  upon  us. 

And  as  many  as  repent  and  are  baptized 
in  my  name,  which  is  Jesus  Christ,  and  en- 
dure to  the  end,  the  same  shall  be  saved. 

Behold,  Jesus  Christ  is  the  name  given  by 
the  Father,  and  there  is  none  other  name 
given  whereby  man  can  be  saved; 

Wherefore,  all  men  must  take  upon  them 
the  name  which  is  given  of  the  Father,  for 
in  that  name  shall  they  be  called  at  the 
last  day; 


Wherefore,  if  they  know  not  the  name  by 
which  they  are  called,  they  cannot  have 
place  in  the  kingdom  of  my  Father. 

And  now,  behold,  there  are  others  who 
are  called  to  declare  my  gospel,  both  unto 
Gentile  and  unto  Jew; 

Yea,  even  twelve;  and  the  Twelve  shall 
be  my  disciples,  and  they  shall  take  upon 
them  my  name;  and  the  Twelve  are  they 
who  shall  desire  to  take  upon  them  my  name 
with  full  purpose  of  heart. 

And  if  they  desire  to  take  upon  them  my 
name  with  full  purpose  of  heart,  they  are 
called  to  go  into  all  the  world  to  preach  my 
gospel  unto  every  creature. 

And  they  are  they  who  are  ordained  of 
me  to  baptize  in  my  name,  according  to 
that  which  is  written.  (D  &  C  18:22-29.) 

That  we  do  constantly  bear  witness  to 
the  hope  we  have  within  us  is  further 
proof  of  the  divine  nature  of  the  work 
in  which  we  are  engaged.  Were  it  oth- 
erwise we  could  not  be  called  the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ.  Where  else  in 
all  the  world  are  the  true  fruits  of  the 
inspiration  of  the  Almighty  to  be  found, 
inspiration  that  giveth  the  souls  of  men 
understanding.  Throughout  the  history 
of  the  Church  innumerable  examples 
of  spiritual  guidance  are  found.  One 
which  I  have  cherished  since  childhood 
is  an  early  experience  of  Wilford  Wood- 
ruff. 

While  traveling  in  New  England,  on 
assignment  by  Brigham  Young,  Presi- 
dent Woodruff  drove  his  carriage  into 
the  yard  of  Brother  Williams.  Brother 
Orson  Hyde  drove  a  wagon  by  the  side 
of  his  carriage.  President  Woodruff's 
wife  and  children  were  in  that  carriage. 
He  had  only  been  there  a  few  minutes 
when  the  Spirit  said  to  him,  "Get  up  and 
move  that  carriage."  When  he  told  his 
wife  that  he  had  to  move  the  carriage, 
she  asked,  "What  for?"  He  answered, 
"I  don't  know." 

That  was  all  she  asked  on  such  oc- 
casions. When  he  told  her  that  he  did 
not  know,  that  was  enough.  President 
Woodruff  got  up  and  moved  his  carri- 
age four  or  five  rods,  and  put  the  off 
fore  wheel  against  the  corner  of  the 
house.  He  then  returned  to  bed.  The 
same  Spirit  said,  "Go  and  move  your 
animals  from  that  oak  tree."  They  were 
two  hundred  yards  from  his  carriage. 
He  moved  his  horses  and  put  them  in  a 
little  hickory  grove.    Again  he  went  to 


34 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Friday,  April  5 

bed.  In  thirty  minutes  a  whirlwind 
came  up  and  broke  that  oak  tree  off 
within  two  feet  of  the  ground.  It 
swept  over  three  or  four  fences  and  fell 
square  in  that  dooryard,  near  Brother 
Orson  Hyde's  wagon,  and  right  where 
the  carriage  had  stood.  What  would 
have  been  the  consequences  if  he  had 
not  listened  to  that  Spirit?  Why,  Presi- 
dent Woodruff,  his  wife,  and  children 
doubtless  would  have  been  killed. 

That  was  the  still,  small  voice  to  him 
— no  thunder,  no  lightning,  but  the 
still,  small  voice  of  the  Spirit  of  God. 
It  saved  his  life.  It  was  the  Spirit  of 
revelation. 

We  can  all  afford  to  develop  a  sensi- 
tiveness to  the  promptings  of  the  Spirit 
in  all  things  pertaining  to  our  physical 
as  well  as  our  spiritual  well-being. 

In  speaking  on  this  subject,  Joseph 
Fielding  Smith  has  said,  "The  testimony 
of  the  Holy  Ghost  is  Spirit  speaking  to 
spirit,  and  is  not  confined  solely  to  the 
natural  or  physical  sense." 

I  bear  witness  to  you,  my  beloved 
brethren  and  sisters,  that  there  is  the 
testimony  of  the  Spirit.  I  know  by  the 
manifestation  of  the  Spirit  that  Jesus  is 
the  Christ,  the  Risen  Lord,  the  Master 
of  us  all,  whose  sins  he  took  upon  him- 
self. I  know  that  through  his  redeem- 
ing sacrifice  immortality  and  eternal 
life  is  ours,  through  our  obedience  to 
the  great  plan  of  life  and  salvation  of 
which  he  was  the  Author. 

May  we  all  become  in  our  own  right, 
saviors  upon  Mount  Zion,  instruments 
in  the  hands  of  the  Lord  in  helping  to 
establish  his  Church  and  kingdom  here 
upon  the  earth,  continually  bearing  our 
witness  in  his  behalf,  that  the  world 
may  know  that  God  has  once  again 
spoken  from  the  heavens  to  give  us  di- 
rection and  purpose  in  our  lives.  We 
as  his  duly  ordained  servants  come  to 
open  the  door  to  all  who  seek  righteous- 
ness. 

The  Lord  has  said: 

".  .  .  this  is  my  work  and  my  glory — 
to  bring  to  pass  the  immortality  and 
eternal  life  of  man"  (Moses  1:39)— a 
result  which  cannot  be  accomplished 
without  understanding  from  on  high, 
an  understanding  which  the  Almighty 
alone  can  inspire. 

God  help  us  to  accomplish  the  high 


First  Day 

purposes  he  has  for  us  in  life,  I  pray 
humbly,  in  the  name  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Henry  D.  Moyle  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve  has  just  concluded 
speaking. 

The  singing  for  this  session  and  this 
morning's  session  has  been  furnished  by 
the  Brigham  Young  University  Com- 
bined Choruses,  with  Newell  B.  Weight 
conducting  this  afternoon,  and  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  will  now  sing  "How  Love- 
ly Is  Thy  Dwelling  Place."  The  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  President 
Raymond  P.  Larson  of  the  Morgan 
Stake. 

We  wish  to  say  a  word  of  apprecia- 
tion to  these  young  folks  who  have 
come  from  the  Brigham  Young  Univer- 
sity to  render  service  today.  Whenever 
the  choruses  have  come  from  Provo  to 
furnish  the  singing  for  the  sessions  of 
Conference,  those  listening  in  and  the 
congregations  have  always  been  uplifted 
and  inspired.  The  students  today  have 
been  no  exception.  We  thank  you.  You 
have  represented  your  school  in  honor, 
and  you  have  rendered  a  service  to  our 
great  Conference.  God  bless  you  and 
your  leaders. 

A  meeting  devoted  to  the  work  of  the 
stake  and  foreign  missions  will  be  held 
in  the  Tabernacle  this  evening  at  seven 
o'clock.  All  stake  mission  presidents, 
stake  missionaries,  the  presidencies  of 
stakes,  are  requested  to  attend  this  meet- 
ing. An  invitation  is  extended  also  to 
members  of  high  councils,  bishoprics, 
presidents  of  seventies  quorums,  and  the 
general  boards  of  auxiliary  organiza- 
tions. Mission  presidents  in  attendance 
at  the  Conference  are  expected  to  be 
present. 

Further,  an  agricultural  meeting  spon- 
sored by  the  General  Church  Welfare 
Committee  will  be  held  tomorrow 
morning  at  7:30  o'clock  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall.  The  following  are  invited  to 
attend:  stake  presidents,  bishops,  or 
their  representatives,  all  ward  and  stake 
agricultural  representatives  and  others 
interested   in    agriculture. 


ELDER  HENRY  D.  MOYLE 


35 


The  choir  will  now  sing  "How  Lovely 
Is  Thy  Dwelling  Place,"  and  the  bene- 
diction will  be  offered  by  President 
Raymond  P.  Larson  of  the  Morgan 
Stake,  after  which  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  tomorrow  morning 
at  10:00  o'clock. 


The  Combined  Choruses  sang  the  se- 
lection, "How  Lovely  Is  Thy  Dwelling 
Place." 

President  Raymond  P.  Larson  of  the 
Morgan  Stake  offered  the   benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  10  o'clock 
a.m.,  Saturday,  April  6. 


SECOND  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


Conference  reconvened  in  the  Taber- 
nacle Saturday  morning,  April  6,  at 
10:00  a.m.,  with  President  McKay  pre- 
siding and  conducting. 

Again  the  building  was  crowded  to 
capacity  and  the  overflow  crowd  was 
accommodated  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  Barratt  Hall,  where  they  listened 
to  the  services  by  means  of  television. 

The  music  for  this  session  of  the  Con- 
ference was  furnished  by  the  Institute 
of  Religion  Chorus  from  the  University 
of  Utah,  accompanied  by  the  Bonne- 
ville Strings,  David  Austin  Shand  con- 
ducting and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the 
organ. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  singing  this  morning  at  this,  the 
third  session  of  the  127th  Annual  Con- 
ference of  the  Church,  will  be  furnished 
by  the  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus 
from  the  University  of  Utah,  accom- 
panied by  the  Bonneville  Strings,  with 
music  arranged  by  Richard  Nibley,  Elder 
David  Austin  Shand  conducting  and 
Elder  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  these  services  by  the 
Chorus  singing  "The  Lord's  Prayer," 
by  Cecil  Gates,  conducted  by  Elder 
Shand.  After  the  singing,  Elder  Elvin 
E.  Evans,  president  of  the  Tacoma  Stake, 
will  offer  the  invocation. 

Singing  by  the  Chorus,  "The  Lord's 
Prayer,"  arrangement  by  B.  Cecil  Gates. 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  Elvin  E.  Evans  of  the  Tacoma 
Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Elvin  E.  Evans,  president  of  the 
Tacoma  Stake,  has  just  offered  the  in- 


vocation. The  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus  from  the  University  of  Utah  will 
now  sing  "Alleluia."  After  the  singing 
Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  will  read  the  vital  statistical 
data,  financial  expenditures,  and  so 
forth. 

The  Chorus  sang  the  anthem,  "Alle- 
luia." 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson,  Clerk  of  the 
Conference,  read  the  following  reports: 

CHANGES  IN  CHURCH  OFFICERS 
STAKE,   WARD  AND  BRANCH 

ORGANIZATIONS  SINCE 
OCTOBER  CONFERENCE,  1956 

TEMPLE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Walter  Trauffer,  president  of  the 
Swiss  Temple,  to  succeed  Samuel  E. 
Bringhurst. 

MISSION  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

Richard  C.  Stratford,  president  of  the 
Northern  States  Mission,  to  succeed 
Isaac  A.  Smoot,  deceased. 

George  F.  Simmons,  president  of  the 
West  Central  States  Mission,  to  succeed 
Samuel  A.  Hendricks. 

Theodore  Moyle  Burton,  president  of 
the  West  German  Mission,  to  succeed 
Kenneth  B.  Dyer. 

NEW  STAKES  ORGANIZED 

Ashley  Stake  organized  December  2, 
1956  by  division  of  Uintah  Stake. 

Canyon  Rim  Stake  organized  October 
28,  1956  by  division  of  East  Mill  Creek 
Stake. 


36 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

Kansas  City  Stake  organized  October 
21,  1956  from  a  part  of  the  Central 
States  Mission. 

Springville  Stake  organized  October 
21,  1956  by  division  of  Kolob  Stake. 

Tucson  Stake  organized  December  2, 
1956  by  division  of  Southern  Arizona 
Stake. 

Valley  View  Stake  organized  October 
28,  1956  by  division  of  East  Mill  Creek 
and  Wilford  Stakes. 

STAKE  PRESIDENTS  APPOINTED 

William  Budge  Wallis,  president  of 
Ashley  Stake. 

Verl  F.  Scott,  president  of  Canyon 
Rim  Stake. 

Gordon  B.  Hinckley,  president  of  East 
Mill  Creek  Stake,  to  succeed  Lamont  B. 
Gundersen. 

Charles  Porter  Brizzee,  president  of 
Idaho  Falls  Stake,  to  succeed  William 
J.  O'Bryant. 

Martin  V.  Witbeck,  president  of 
Kansas  City  Stake. 

Ernest  A.  Strong,  Jr.,  president  of 
Kolob  Stake,  to  succeed  Leo  A.  Crandall. 

Reed  Whipple,  president  of  Las  Vegas 
Stake,  to  succeed  Thomas  G.  Myers. 

Paul  J.  Callis,  president  of  Reno  Stake, 
to  succeed  Elmo  P.  Humpherys. 

Delbert  G.  Taylor,  president  of  Rex- 
burg  Stake,  to  succeed  John  L.  Clarke. 

Alton  Christensen,  president  of  Sevier 
Stake,  to  succeed  Marden  D.  Pearson. 

Leo  A.  Crandall,  president  of  Spring- 
ville Stake. 

Leslie  Odell  Brewer,  president  of 
Tucson  Stake. 

Franklin  R.  Walker,  president  of 
Uintah  Stake,  to  succeed  William  B. 
Wallis. 

Lamont  B.  Gundersen,  president  of 
Valley  View  Stake. 

NEW  WARDS  ORGANIZED 

American  Fork  Ninth  Ward,  Alpine 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  American 
Fork  Fourth  Ward. 

North  Ogden  Third  Ward,  Ben  Lo- 
mond Stake,  formed  by  division  of  North 
Ogden  First  Ward. 

Bountiful  Stake:  Bountiful  Thirteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Bountiful 
Tenth   Ward;   West  Bountiful   Second 


Second  Day 

Ward,  formed  by  division  of  West 
Bountiful  Ward. 

Brigham  Young  University  Stake:  B. 
Y.  U.  Campus  Thirteenth,  Fourteenth, 
Fifteenth,  Sixteenth,  and  Seventeenth 
Wards,  formed  from  various  wards. 

Calgary  Fourth  Ward,  Calgary  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Calgary  First 
Ward. 

Rosecrest  Second  Ward,  Canyon  Rim 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Rosecrest 
Ward. 

Price  Sixth  Ward,  Carbon  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Price  Third  Ward. 

Cedar  Ninth  Ward,  Cedar  Stake, 
formerly  a  part  of  the  L.  D.  S.  Institute. 

Covina  Stake:  Baldwin  Park,  Second 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Baldwin 
Park  Ward;  LaPuente  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  West  Covina  Ward. 

East  Long  Beach  Stake:  Norwalk 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Nor- 
walk and  Norwalk  Second  Wards;  Nor- 
walk Fourth  Ward,  formed  by  division 
of  Norwalk  Second  Ward;  Bellflower 
Third  Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Bell- 
flower  First  Ward. 

Ensign  Fourth  Ward,  Ensign  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  East  Ensign  Ward. 

Grant  Stake:  Grant  Eleventh  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Grant  Third  and 
Fifth  Wards;  Grant  Twelfth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Grant  Eighth 
Ward. 

Kansas  City  Stake:  Kansas  City  First, 
Second,  and  Third,  Independence,  Lib- 
erty, St.  Joseph,  Topeka  Wards,  Formerly 
branches  in  the  Central  States  Mission. 

University  Ward,  Los  Angeles  Stake, 
formed  from  various  wards. 

Maricopa  Stake:  College  Ward,  form- 
erly a  branch  at  the  L.  D.  S.  Institute  at 
Arizona  State  College;  Mesa  Sixteenth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Mesa 
Fourteenth  Ward. 

Monument  Park  Eleventh  Ward, 
Monument  Park  Stake,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Monument  Park  Ninth  Ward. 

Murray  Stake:  Murray  Eleventh 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Murray 
Ninth  Ward;  Murray  Twelfth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Murray  First 
Ward;  Murray  Thirteenth  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  Murray  Sixth  and  Tenth 
Wards. 

Westchester  Ward,  New  York  Stake, 
formerly  Westchester  Branch. 


CHANGES  IN  WARDS  AND  STAKES 


37 


North  Davis  Stake:  Clearfield  Fifth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Clearfield 
First  Ward;  Clearfield  Sixth  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Clearfield  Third 
Ward;  Sunset  Third  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Sunset  Second  Ward. 

Halawa  Ward,  Oahu  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Kalihi-Kai  and  Pearl  City 
Wards. 

Oxford-Clifton  Ward,  Oneida  Stake, 
formed  by  consolidation  of  Oxford  and 
Clifton  Wards. 

Thirty-Sixth  Ward,  Park  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  the  Thirty-First 
Ward. 

Phoenix   Stake:   Ajo  Ward,  formerly 
Ajo    Branch;    Glendale    Second    Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Glendale  Ward. 
College  Ward,  Rexburg  Stake,  formed 
from  various  wards. 

Beaver  Creek  Ward,  Rigby  Stake, 
formerly  Beaver  Creek  Branch. 

Rose  Park  Seventh  Ward,  Rose  Park 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Rose  Park 
Fifth  and  Sixth  Wards. 

Davis      Ward,      Sacramento      Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Woodland  Ward. 
Rialto  Ward,  San  Bernardino  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Fontana  Ward. 

Brentwood  Ward,  San  Joaquin  Stake, 
formerly  Brentwood  Branch. 

Seaside  Ward,  San  Jose  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Pacific  Grove  Ward. 

Moab  Second  Ward,  San  Juan  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Moab  Ward. 

Alderwood  Ward,  Seattle  Stake,  for- 
merly Alderwood  Branch. 

Showlow  Second  Ward,  Snowflake 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Showlow 
Ward. 

Augusta  Ward,  South  Carolina  Stake, 
formerly  Augusta  Branch. 

South  Davis  Stake:  Bountiful  Four- 
teenth Ward,  formed  by  division  of 
Bountiful  Fourth  and  Seventh  Wards; 
South  Bountiful  Second  Ward,  formed 
by  division  of  South  Bountiful  Ward; 
Orchard  Second  Ward,  formed  by  divi- 
sion of  Orchard  Ward;  Val  Verda  Third 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Val  Verda 
Ward. 

Snow  College  Ward,  South  Sanpete 
Stake,  formed  from  various  wards. 

Willcox  Ward,  Southern  Arizona 
Stake,  formerly  Willcox  Branch. 

Spanish  Fork  Ninth  Ward,  Spanish 


Fork  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Span- 
ish Fork  Second  Ward. 

Tacoma  Fourth  Ward,  Tacoma  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Tacoma  First 
Ward. 

Taylorsville  Stake:  Kearns  Sixth 
Ward,  formed  by  division  of  Kearns 
Fifth  Ward;  Kearns  Seventh  Ward, 
formed  by  division  of  Kearns  Second 
Ward;  Kearns  Eighth  Ward,  formed  by 
division  of  Kearns  Ward. 

University  Ward,  Tucson  Stake, 
formed  from  various  wards. 

University  Stake:  University  Second 
Ward,  formerly  Stadium  Village  Branch; 
University  Third  Ward,  formed  by  di- 
vision of  Staduim  Village  Branch. 

Valley  View  Sixth  Ward,  Valley 
View  Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Wil- 
ford  and  Valley  View  Wards. 

Heber  Sixth  Ward,  Wasatch  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Heber  First  and 
Third  Wards. 

Riverton  Third  Ward,  West  Jordan 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Riverton 
First  and  Second  Wards. 

Farmington  Third  Ward,  Young 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Farmington 
First  and  Second  Wards. 

WARDS  AND  BRANCHES 
TRANSFERRED 

Ashley,  Glines,  Lapoint,  Maeser  First, 
Maeser  Second,  Tridell,  Vernal  First 
and  Vernal  Fifth  Wards,  Ashley  Stake, 
formerly  of  Uintah  Stake. 

Canyon  Rim,  Canyon  Rim  Second, 
Garden  Heights,  Garden  Heights  South, 
Highland  View,  Highland  View  West, 
and  Rosecrest  Wards,  Canyon  Rim 
Stake,  formerly  of  East  Mill  Creek 
Stake. 

Kansas  City  First,  Second,  and  Third, 
Independence,  Liberty,  St.  Joseph, 
Topeka  Wards,  and  Leavenworth 
Branch,  Kansas  City  Stake,  formerly  of 
the  Central  States  Mission. 

Wickenburg  Branch,  Phoenix  Stake, 
formerly  of  the  California  Mission. 

Springville  Third,  Fourth,  Fifth, 
Seventh,  Eighth,  Ninth  and  Tenth 
Wards,  Springville  Stake,  formerly  of 
Kolob  Stake. 

Tucson  First,  Second,  Third,  and 
Fourth  Wards,    Hayden,   Nogales,   and 


38 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

San  Manuel  Branches,  Tucson  Stake, 
formerly  of  Southern  Arizona  Stake. 

Valley  View,  Valley  View  Second, 
Third,  Fourth,  Fifth  Wards,  Valley  View 
Stake,  formerly  of  East  Mill  Creek  Stake. 

Cananea  Branch,  Northern  Mexican 
Mission,  formerly  of  Southern  Arizona 
Stake. 

WARD  AND  BRANCH  NAME 
CHANGED 

Montebello  Ward,  East  Los  Angeles 
Stake,  formerly  Montebello  First  Ward. 

Ensign  Third  Ward,  Ensign  Stake, 
formerly  East  Ensign  Ward. 

Lake  Jackson  Branch,  Houston  Stake, 
formerly  Velasco  Branch. 

Kansas  City  Stake:  Kansas  City  First 
Ward,  formerly  Armour  Hills  Branch; 
Kansas  City  Second  Ward,  formerly 
Riverview  Branch;  Kansas  City  Third 
Ward,  Formerly  Westport  Branch. 

Klamath  Falls  Ward,  Klamath  Stake, 
formerly  Klamath  Falls  First  Ward. 

Moanalua  Ward,  Oahu  Stake,  former- 
ly Kalihi-Kai  Ward. 

Valley  View  Stake:  Valley  View 
Fourth  Ward,  formerly  Evergreen  Ward; 
Valley  View  Fifth  Ward,  formerly  East 
Mill  Creek  Fifth  Ward. 

INDEPENDENT  BRANCHES 
ORGANIZED 

Woodland  Branch,  Columbia  River 
Stake,  formerly  dependent  upon  Van- 
couver Ward. 

Texarkana  Branch,  Dallas  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Hooks  Branch. 

Derby  Branch,  Denver  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Denver  Third  Ward. 

Little  Valley  Branch,  Farr  West 
Stake,  formed  by  division  of  Promontory 
Branch. 

Royal  Branch,  Grand  Coulee  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  Othello  Ward. 

Lackland  Branch,  Houston  Stake, 
formed  by  division  of  San  Antonio 
Ward. 

Long  Beach  Branch,  Long  Beach 
Stake. 

Phoenix  Stake:  Ajo  Branch,  formerly 
in  the  California  Mission;  Gila  Bend 
Branch,  formerly  in  the  California  Mis- 
sion; Wickenburg  Branch,  formerly  in 


Second  Day 

the  California  Mission;  Phoenix  Indian 
School  Branch. 

San  Francisco  Stake:  Chinese-Poly- 
nesian Branch,  formed  by  division  of 
Bay  Ward;  Novato  Branch,  formed  by 
division  of  San  Rafael  Ward. 

Kent  Branch,  Tacoma  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Auburn  Branch  and 
Renton  Ward. 

Marana  Branch,  Tucson  Stake,  formed 
by  division  of  Tucson  Second  Ward. 


WARDS  AND  INDEPENDENT 
BRANCHES  DISCONTINUED 

Montebello  Second  Ward,  East  Los 
Angeles  Stake,  membership  transferred 
to  Montebello  First  Ward. 

Klamath  Falls  Second  Ward,  Klamath 
Stake,  membership  transferred  to  Kla- 
math Falls  First  Ward. 

Oakland  Fifth  Ward,  Oakland-Berk- 
ley Stake,  membership  transferred  to 
Claremont,  Oakland,  and  Oakland 
Third  Wards. 

Oneida  Stake:  Clifton  Ward,  member- 
ship transferred  to  Oxford-Clifton  Ward; 
Oxford  Ward,  membership  transferred 
to  Oxford-Clifton  Ward. 

Garfield  Second  Ward,  Oquirrh  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Garfield 
First  Ward. 

Newberg  Branch,  Portland  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  McMinnville 
and  West  Hills  Wards. 

Fourteenth  Ward,  Salt  Lake  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Seventeenth, 
North  Seventeenth,  and  Sixth-Seventh 
Wards. 

Miramonte  Ward,  South  Los  Angeles 
Stake,  membership  transferred  to  Mat- 
thews Ward. 

Wilford  Second  Ward,  Wilford  Stake, 
membership  transferred  to  Cummings 
and  Wilford  Wards. 

THOSE  WHO  HAVE  PASSED  AWAY 

Mary  Taylor  Schwartz  Smith,  widow 
of  President  Joseph  F.  Smith. 

Emery  R.  Ranker,  President  of  Wal- 
nut Creek  Stake. 

Isaac  A.  Smoot,  President  of  Northern 
States  Mission. 


39 

STATISTICAL  AND  FINANCIAL  REPORT  —  1956 

For  the  Information  of  the  Members  of  the  Church 

The  First  Presidency  issued  the  following  statement  of  items  concerning  the  condition 
and  operation  of  the  Church  for  the  year  1956.  The  statement  will  include  two  sections: 
First,  Statistical  Information:  and  Second,  Financial  Data. 

/.   STATISTICAL  INFORMATION 

Number  of  Stakes  of  Zion,  at  end  of  1956 239 

An  increase  of  15  during  the  year 

Number  of  Wards 1947 

Number  of  Independent  Branches  263 

Total  Wards  and  Independent  Branches,  at  end  of  year  2,210 

An  increase  of  128  during  the  year 

Number  of  Full-Time  Missions  at  end  of  year  45 

An  increase  of  1  during  the  year 

Church  Membership,  December  31,  1956: 

In  the  Stakes  1,177,856 

In  the  Missions 238,875 

Total  Membership 1,416,731 

An  increase  of  59,457  during  the  year 

Church  Growth  during  1956: 

Children  blessed  in  Stakes  and  Missions  49,861 

Children  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions - 33,534 

Converts  baptized  in  Stakes  and  Missions 25,181 

An  increase  of  3,512  in  convert  baptisms  over  the  preceding  year 

Social  Statistics: 

(of  membership  in  the  Stakes,  1956) 

Birth  rate  per  thousand  36.60 

Marriage  rate  per  thousand  8.52 

Death  rate  per  thousand 5.27 

Priesthood: 

Members  holding  the  Aaronic  Priesthood  December  31,  1956: 

Deacons 64,565 

Teachers  49,723 

Priests 63,046 

Total  number  holding  Aaronic  Priesthood  177,334 

An  increase  of  7,523  during  the  year 
Members  holding  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood  December  31,  1956: 

Elders  134,201 

Seventies  21,260 

High  Priests 39,736 

Total  number  holding  Melchizedek  Priesthood 195,197 

An  increase  of  8,947  during  the  year 

Grand  total,  members  holding  Aaronic  or  Melchizedek 

Priesthood  372,530 

Auxiliary  Organizations: 

Relief  Society  (membership)   172,722 

An  increase  of  9,209  over  the  preceding  year 
Deseret  Sunday  School  Union    (Average  Attendance  of   Pupils,  Officers 

and  Teachers)  478,423 

An  increase  of  14,996  over  the  preceding  year 


40  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association   (enrollment)    178,918 

An  increase  of  20,299  over  the  preceding  year 
Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association    (enrollment)    174,973 

An  increase  of  23,264  over  the  preceding  year 

Primary  (Children  Enrolled)  253,576 

An  increase  of  52,515  over  the  preceding  year 

Welfare  Plan: 

Number  of  persons  assisted  from  Bishops'  Storehouses  in  1956  63,130 

Number  placed  in  remunerative  employment  during  year  7,518 

Man-days  of  work  donated  to  the  Welfare  Plan  during  year  150,033 

Unit-days  of  equipment  use  donated  12,482 

Genealogical  Society: 

Number  of  names  cleared  and   forwarded  to  the  Temples   in   1956  for 

ordinances  to  be  performed  748,298 

Genealogical  records  microfilmed  in  9  countries  during  the  year  were 
equivalent  to  82,084  printed  volumes  of  approximately  300  pages  per 
volume. 

Temples: 

Number  of  ordinances  performed  during  1956  in  the  10  operating  temples: 

For  the  living - 33,139 

For  the  dead 2,592,353 

Total  number  of  ordinances  2,625,492 

An  increase  of  139,998  over  the  preceding  year 

Missionaries: 

Number  of  missionaries  who  at  the  close  of  1956  were  laboring  under  calls 

from  the  First  Presidency  in  the  full-time  missions  5,103 

An  increase  of  416  during  the  year 
Number  of  other  missionaries  laboring  at  the  close  of  1956  in  the  full-time 

missions  1,726 

Number  engaged  in  missionary  work  in  the  Stakes  at  the  close  of  the  year  6,232 

Total  number  of  missionaries  at  end  of  year  13,061 

Number  of  missionaries  who  received  training  in  the  Missionary  Home 

during  1956 2,572 

An  increase  of  162  over  the  preceding  year 

Church  School  System: 

Total  cumulative  enrollments  in  the  unified  Church  School  System  during 

the  year  1956-1957  64,188 

II.   EXPENDITURES  OF  THE  CHURCH  IN  1956 
(From  Church  general  funds  and  from  other  contributions) 

For  Missions  and  Missionary  Work  $10,482,511 

Not  including  an  estimated  $4,100,000  paid  by  members  and  friends  for 
support  of  missionaries,  and  not  including  value  of  the  time  given  by 
missionaries. 

For  Ward  and  Stake  buildings  and  activities  21,904,676 

For  construction  and  operation  of  Temples  2,985,790 

For  the  Church  schools  10,201,140 

For  welfare  4,863,513 

Not  including  value  of  donated  labor 

For  buildings  and  grounds  not  included  elsewhere  1,127,089 

For  Genealogical  Society 1,188,949 

For  expenses  of  the  Auxiliary  General  Boards  and  of  the  Primary  Children's 

Hospital  512,546 

For  general  administrative  expenses  of  the  Church 1,740,836 

For  all  other  purposes  247,821 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


41 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Joseph  Anderson  has  just  read 
the  statistical  and  financial  data  relating 
to  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter- 
day  Saints.  Elder  Orval  Adams  will 
now  read  the  report  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee.  Following  Elder 
Adams,  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
will  present  the  General  Authorities, 
General  Officers,  and  General  Auxiliary 
Officers  of  the  Church  for  the  sustaining 
vote  of  this  General  Conference.  Presi- 
dent Clark  will  also  address  the  audi- 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Orval  Adams  has  just  read  the 
report  of  the  Church  Auditing  Com- 
mittee. President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 
of  the  First  Presidency  will  now  present 
the  General  Authorities,  General  Offi- 
cers, and  General  Auxiliary  Officers  of 
the  Church  for  the  sustaining  vote  of 
the  General  Conference.  President  Clark 
will  also  give  us  his  message. 


Elder  Orval  W.  Adams  of  the  Church 
Auditing  Committee  read  the  following 
report: 

Salt  Lake  City,  Utah 
April  4,  1957 

President  David  O.  McKay  and 

Counselors, 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
Dear  Brethren: 

We  have  reviewed  the  Report  of  the 
Income  and  Expenditures  of  the  Corpor- 
ation of  the  President  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  for  the 
year  1956.  The  record  keeping  shows 
evidence  of  great  care  and  the  reports 
prepared  are  clear  and  concise.  Expendi- 
tures are  well  within  the  income  of  the 
Church,  and  it  is  indicated  that  expenses 
have  been  held  below  the  figures  bud- 
geted. We  have  been  assured  that  the 
Church  is  free  from  debt. 

Respectfully  submitted, 
Orval  W.  Adams 
Harold  H.  Bennett 
Members  of  the 
Church  Auditing 
Committee 


President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 

My  brothers  and  sisters,  we  are  again 
at  a  time  when  we  sustain  the  officers 
of  this  Church  and  its  organizations,  as 
already  announced  by  President  McKay. 

I  take  the  liberty  of  again  reminding 
you  that  you  here  assembled  are  voting 
for  the  Church.  In  a  very  true  sense  you 
are  a  constituent  assembly,  you  repre- 
sent the  Church,  you  will  be  asked  to 
sustain,  or  otherwise,  those  who  are 
proposed  to  be  sustained,  and  I  would 
like  to  urge  upon  you  the  realization 
that  this  is  not  a  pro-forma  presentation. 
It  is  a  presentation  in  which  those  who 
vote  in  the  affirmative  pledge  them- 
selves with  their  uplifted  hands  that 
they  will  sustain  those  for  whom  they 
vote.  And  this  sustaining  means  that 
you  will  support,  follow,  and  obey  in 
the  proper  ways  those  who  preside  over 
you. 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH 


The  First  Presidency 

David  O.  McKay,  Prophet,  Seer  and  Revelator,  and  President  of  The  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

Stephen  L  Richards,  First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.,  Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency. 

President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith 


42  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

Harold  B.  Lee  Marion  G.  Romney 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  LeGrand  Richards 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Mark  E.  Petersen  Richard  L.  Evans 

Henry  D.  Moyle  George  Q.  Morris 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 
Eldred  G.  Smith 

The  Counselors  in  The  First  Presidency,  the  Twelve  Apostles  and  the  Patriarch 
to  the  Church  as  Prophets,  Seers  and  Revelators. 

Assistants  to  the  Twelve 

Thomas  E.  McKay  John  Longden 

Clifford  E.  Young  Hugh  B.  Brown 

Alma  Sonne  Sterling  W.  Sill 
El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Trustee-in-Trust 

David  O.  McKay 
As  Trustee-in-Trust  for  The  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

The  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 

Levi  Edgar  Young  Milton  R.  Hunter 

Antoine  R.  Ivins  Bruce  R.  McConkie 

Oscar  A.  Kirkham  Marion  D.  Hanks 
Seymour  Dilworth  Young 

Presiding  Bishopric 

Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson,  First  Counselor 
Carl  W.   Buehner,  Second  Counselor 

Church  Historian  and  Recorder 
Joseph  Fielding  Smith,  with  A.  William  Lund  and  Preston  Nibley  as  Assistants. 

Church  Board  of  Education 

David  O.  McKay  Henry  D.  Moyle 

Stephen  L  Richards  Delbert  L.  Stapley 

J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr.  Marion  G.  Romney 

Joseph  Fielding  Smith  LeGrand  Richards 

Harold  B.  Lee  Adam  S.  Bennion 

Spencer  W.  Kimball  Richard  L.  Evans 

Ezra  Taft  Benson  George  Q.  Morris 
Mark  E.  Petersen 

Administrator,  Board  of  Education 
Ernest  L.  Wilkinson 

Church  Auditing  Committee 

Orval  W.  Adams 
George  S.  Spencer 
Harold  H.  Bennett 


GENERAL  AUTHORITIES  OF  THE  CHURCH       ]  [         43 

Tabernacle  Choir 

Lester  F.  Hewlett,  President 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  Conductor 

Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Conductor 

Organists 

Alexander  Schreiner 

Frank  W.  Asper 

Roy  M.  Darley,  Assistant 

CHURCH  WELFARE  COMMITTEE 
Advisers 

Harold  B.  Lee  El  Ray  L.  Christiansen 

Henry  D.  Moyle  John  Longden 

Defeat  L.  Stapley  Amoine  R   Ivins 

Marion  G.  Romney  _           .    ,,.„ 

LeGrand  Richards  °scar  A-  Kirkham 

Thomas  E.  McKay  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin 

Clifford  E.  Young  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson      | 

Alma  Sonne  Carl  W.  Buehner 
and  the  General  Presidency  of  Relief  Society 

General  Church  Welfare  Committee 

Henry  D.  Moyle,  Chairman 
Harold  B.  Lee,  Managing  Director 
Marion  G.   Romney,  Assistant  Managing   Director 
Paul  C.  Child  Lorenzo  H.  Hatch 

Mark  B.  Garff  Walter  Dansie 

Leonard  E.  Adams  LeRoy  A.  Wirthlin 

J.  Leonard  Love  Walter  Stover 

William  T.  Lawrence 

GENERAL  AUXILIARY  OFFICERS  OF  THE  CHURCH 

Relief  Society 

Belle  Smith  Spafford,  President 
Marianne  Clark  Sharp,  First  Counselor 
Helen  Woodruff  Anderson,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Deseret  Sunday  School  Union 

George  R.  Hill,  General  Superintendent 
David  Lawrence  McKay,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
Lynn  S.  Richards,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Young  Men's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Elbert  R.  Curtis,  General  Superintendent 
A.  Walter  Stevenson,  First  Assistant  Superintendent 
David  S.  King,  Second  Assistant  Superintendent 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


44 

Saturday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Young  Women's  Mutual  Improvement  Association 

Bertha  S.  Reeder,  President 
Emily  H.  Bennett,  First  Counselor 
LaRue  C.  Longden,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 

Primary  Association 

LaVern  W.  Parmley,  President 
Arta  M.  Hale,  First  Counselor 
Leone  W.  Doxey,  Second  Counselor 
with  all  members  of  the  Board  as  at  present  constituted. 


President  Clark: 

President  McKay,  so  far  as  I  could  ob- 
serve the  vote  was  unanimous  in  the  af- 
firmative for  all  persons  voted  for. 


Second  Day 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


M 


:Y  brothers  and  sisters,  contrary  to 
my  usual  custom  and  practice,  I 
intend  to  read  what  I  have  to  say 
today.  I  assure  you  I  have  tried  to  pre- 
pare it  under  the  influence  of  our  Heav- 
enly Father,  and  I  humbly  pray  that  it 
will  carry  the  message  which  I  have 
hoped  for. 

I  plan  to  say  something  today  about 
the  Constitution  of  the  United  States  of 
America  —  its  Framers  and  some  of  its 
essential  principles  —  America,  the  land 
choice  above  all  other  lands  —  for  our 
great  and  priceless  liberties,  including 
the  security  of  our  homes  and  property, 
our  freedom  of  speech  and  of  the  press, 
freedom  of  religion  and  the  free  exer- 
cise thereof,  indeed  freedom  itself  and 
its  liberties,  as  our  fathers  knew  and  en- 
joyed, as  also  ourselves,  depend  upon  its 
preservation.  As  there  is  much  detail 
and  as  I  wish  to  be  as  accurate  as  I 
may  be,  I  have  written  out  what  I  wish 
to  say. 

It  seems  wise  to  remind  ourselves  of 
these  matters  because  some  people  be- 
little that  great  document  and  its 
fundamental  principles,  sometimes  to 
the  point  of  derision.  Sometimes  we 
forget  the  Constitution. 

Constitution  "Outmoded" 

These  defamers  say  that  the  Consti- 
tution,  and  our  government  under  it, 


are  outmoded;  not  responsive  to  present- 
day  conditions  of  life  and  living;  not 
sufficient  to  meet  and  solve  present-day 
problems;  and  that  we  need  a  modern, 
up-to-date  system  of  government.  They 
let  us  know  what  should  be  done  to 
meet  their  ideas  and  plans,  which  seem 
always  to  run  to  despotism. 

I  have  observed  that  numbers  of  these 
defamers  take  advantage  to  the  utmost 
of  every  liberty  and  freedom  created  and 
protected  by  the  Constitution  in  order 
to  destroy  it  and  its  guarantees,  so  to 
make  easy  the  setting  up  of  a  tyranny 
that  would  deprive  the  common  man  of 
his  freedom  and  liberties  under  it,  so 
permitting  these  defamers  to  set  up  a 
government  that  would  give  place,  pow- 
er, and  privilege  to  them  in  a  despotism 
to  be  imposed  upon  the  mass  of  man- 
kind. We  have  witnessed  this  very  des- 
potism. There  would  be  a  Kremlin  in 
every  country  on  the  globe,  all  under 
the  super- Kremlin  in  Moscow. 

Ten  Commandments  "Outmoded" 

One  class  of  these  defamers  are  the 
same  persons  who  declare  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, the  basic  law  of  the  civi- 
lized world,  to  be  outmoded,  although 
these  Commandments  still  speak  with 
their  divine  power  and  authority  against 
the  same  evils  existing  today,  each  one 
of  them,  not  one  missing,  even  as  they 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


45 


existed  in  the  days  of  Moses;  Command- 
ments that  proclaim  righteous  principles 
that  are  as  valid  and  applicable  today 
as  when,  on  Mt.  Sinai,  they  were  writ- 
ten on  slabs  of  stone  by  the  finger  of 
God.  Sinners  would  get  rid  of  the  di- 
vine rebukes  and  penalties  prescribed  for 
their  wickedness  and  would  treat  as 
naught  the  promised  rewards  for  that 
righteous  life  that  would  rob  them  of 
the  fleshly  pleasures  of  sin. 

Sermon  on  the  Mount  "Outmoded" 

The  same  people  declare  the  Sermon 
on  the  Mount  to  be  outmoded,  irre- 
sponsive to  the  needs  of  the  people  of 
today.  The  divine  truths  of  the  Ser- 
mon, its  surpassing  loveliness,  indeed 
the  sublimity  of  its  ethical  teachings,  do 
not,  say  they,  harmonize  with  their 
modern  life  where  we  see  greed,  ambi- 
tion, selfishness,  dishonesty,  deceit,  false- 
hood, and  licentiousness  thrive  and  on 
which  they  live  and  riot.  We  have  noted 
this  experiment  also. 

If  all  that  God  and  his  Only  Begot- 
ten taught  that  will  lead  us  to  the  im- 
mortality and  eternal  life  that  is  God's 
declared  glory,  could  be  wiped  out  and 
forgotten,  leaving  only  Satan  and  his 
work,  the  followers  of  Satan  would,  in 
their  ignorance,  have  reached  a  Satanic 
heaven. 

Organization  of  Constitutional 
Convention 

The  Constitution  of  the  United  States 
was  framed  in  Independence  Hall, 
Philadelphia,  May  14,  1787,  to  Septem- 
ber 17,  1787.  The  Framers  were  dele- 
gates sent  thereto  by  the  Thirteen 
Colonies.  Seventy- four  were  appointed; 
fifty-five  reported  at  the  Convention; 
nineteen  did  not  attend;  thirty-nine 
signed  the  Constitution.  Representatives 
signed  from  each  of  the  Colonies  except 
Rhode  Island. 

Bill  of  Rights 

The  Constitution  as  signed  lacked  a 
Bill  of  Rights,  though  these  rights  were 
discussed  in  the  Convention.  As  the 
Colonies  voted  to  ratify  the  Constitution, 
each  proposed  amendments  to  remedy 
the  omission.  Over  one  hundred 
amendments  were  proposed.  Some  forty 
to  fifty  were  eliminated  as  duplications. 


Seventeen  were  finally  approved  by  the 
House  of  the  First  Congress;  the  Senate 
reduced  the  number  to  twelve,  which 
were  sent  to  the  various  legislatures  for 
ratification.  The  final  returns  showed 
that  ten  had  been  ratified. 

Historical  Experience  of  Framers 

The  Framers  and  their  fathers  had 
in  the  preceding  seventy-five  years, 
fought  through  four  purely  European 
wars  —  in  America  between  the  British 
and  her  colonists  on  one  side,  and  the 
French  and  her  Indian  allies  on  the 
other.  The  colonists  had  little,  if  any, 
concern  in  the  European  issues.  They 
fought  because  the  homelands  fought. 
In  the  first  three  of  these  wars  the 
colonists  lost  much,  suffered  massacres. 
Yet  at  the  end  of  each  war,  each  Euro- 
pean government  returned,  each  to  the 
other,  the  gains  either  had  made  in 
America.  The  colonists  had  heavy 
losses,  had  no  gains  except  the  experi- 
ence that  builded  up  over  the  decades, 
experience  that  aided  them,  first,  in 
winning  their  independence,  and,  there- 
after, in  establishing  this  Government. 

No  wonder  Washington  in  his  Fare- 
well Address  counseled  against  foreign 
entanglements.  He  stated  the  reasons 
drawn  from  colonial  experience. 

The  French  and  Indian  War,  the  last 
of  the  four,  broke  the  French  foothold 
on  the  Continent.  Washington  partic- 
ipated in  that  war  as  an  officer  and 
suffered  in  Braddock's  defeat  at  Fort 
Duquesne. 

During  a  part  of  this  whole  period, 
the  colonial  legislatures  had  been  fight- 
ing against  royal  representatives;  in  the 
earlier  decade  the  fathers  of  the  Framers 
carried  on  these  contests;  in  the  latter 
years,  many  of  the  Framers  were  them- 
selves involved. 

Movement  for  Independence 

The  movement  for  independence  be- 
gan soon  after  the  close  of  the  French 
and  Indian  War;  for  example,  the  Com- 
mittees of  Correspondence.  Some  of  the 
very  best  minds  and  ablest  men  in  the 
Colonies  participated.  Framers  served 
on  these  earlier  revolutionary  bodies. 
Many  Framers  were  members  of  the 
Continental  Congress.    When  the  Rev- 


46 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

olution  came,  they  had  the  experiences, 
bitter  as  to  both  men  and  money,  that 
came  to  that  Congress  in  raising  troops 
and  materials  of  war.  They  had  knowl- 
edge. Some  were  experienced  in  the 
actual  problems  of  conducting  a  war. 
One  at  least,  Franklin,  had  seen  distin- 
guished service  in  the  diplomatic  field. 

Characters  of  Framers 

< 

The  Framers  were  men  of  affairs  in 
their  own  right.  Some  were  distin- 
guished financiers.  More  than  half  of 
them  were  university  men,  some  edu- 
cated in  the  leading  American  colleges 
— Harvard,  Yale,  Columbia,  Princeton, 
William  and  Mary;  others  in  the  great 
colleges  of  Great  Britain  —  Oxford, 
Glasgow,  Edinburgh.  Washington  and 
Franklin  were  among  those  who  had  no 
college  education.  Altogether  there 
were  seventy-four  delegates  appointed; 
fifty-five  who  reported  at  the  Conven- 
tion, "all  of  them,"  it  has  been  said, 
"respectable  for  family  and  for  personal 
qualities."  Of  these  fifty-five,  only 
thirty-nine  were  present  at  the  signing. 
Nineteen  failed  to  attend  the  conven- 
tion. 

They  were  men  of  varied  political  be- 
liefs. Some  were  Federalists;  some  anti- 
Federalists.  Some  seemed  favorable  to 
a  mere  revamping  of  the  Articles  of 
Confederation. 

No  Political  "Blueprint"  Available 

The  amazing  thing  is  that  there  was 
not  in  all  the  world's  history  a  govern- 
ment organization  even  among  con- 
federacies, that  could  be  taken  by  the 
Framers  as  a  preliminary  blueprint  for 
building  the  political  structure  they 
were  to  build.    Franklin  declared: 

"We  have  gone  back  to  ancient  his- 
tory for  models  of  Government,  and 
examined  the  different  forms  of  those 
Republics  which,  having  been  formed 
with  the  seeds  of  their  own  dissolution, 
now  no  longer  exist.  And  we  have 
viewed  Modern  States  all  round  Eu- 
rope, but  find  none  of  their  Constitu- 
tions suitable  to  our  circumstances." 

They  had  been  in  session  for  about  a 
month  (June  26,  1787)  when  Madison 
declared: 

".  .  .  as  it  was  more  than  probable  we 
were  now  digesting  a  plan  which  in  its 


Second  Day 

operation  wd  decide  forever  the  fate 
of  Republican  Gov*  we  ought  not  only 
to  provide  every  guard  to  liberty  that 
its  preservation  cd  require,  but  be  equally 
careful  to  supply  the  defects  which  our 
own  experience  had  particularly  pointed 
out." 

Who  the  Framers  Were 

A  little  further  detail  about  the  thir- 
ty-nine Framers  who  actually  signed  the 
document  will  be  useful. 

Of  those  thirty-nine  signers,  twenty- 
six  had  seen  service  in  the  Continental 
Congress.  They  knew  legislative  proc- 
esses and  problems.  Thirteen  had  served 
both  in  the  Continental  Congress  and 
in  the  Army.  What  a  wealth  of 
experience  they  had  obtained  in  both 
legislative  and  executive  duties!  Of  the 
nineteen  who  served  in  the  Army,  sev- 
enteen had  served  as  officers — they  knew 
the  problems  of  armed  forces  in  the 
field;  and  of  these  seventeen,  four  had 
served  on  Washington's  staff. 

Let  us  go  down  the  roll:  Washington, 
the  "Father  of  his  Country,"  and  Madi- 
son, sometimes  called  the  "Father  of  the 
Constitution,"  were  later  Presidents  of 
the  United  States.  Hamilton  (a  finan- 
cial genius)  was  Secretary  of  the 
Treasury  under  Washington.  McHenry 
(Maryland)  was  Secretary  of  War  un- 
der Washington.  Randolph  (Virginia) 
acted  as  Attorney  General  for  Washing- 
ton and  later  as  his  Secretary  of  State. 
Rutledge  (South  Carolina),  a  distin- 
guished jurist,  was  later  Ghief  Justice 
in  the  United  States  Supreme  Court. 
Oliver  Ellsworth  (absent  when  the  Con- 
stitution was  signed)  was  also  later  a 
Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court. 
Blair,  Paterson,  and  Wilson  were  later 
Justices  of  the  Supreme  Court.  (Wilson 
had  been  on  the  Board  of  War  and 
Ordnance  in  the  Second  Continental 
Congress.) 

Benjamin  Franklin,  a  philosopher  and 
scientist,  had  behind  him  years  of  most 
distinguished  and  successful  diplomatic 
service.  King  (Massachusetts)  was  later 
a  Senator  and  thereafter  Minister  to 
Great  Britain.  Charles  Pinckney  (South 
Carolina)  was  Minister  to  Spain.  Dick- 
inson (Delaware)  founded  Dickinson 
College,  and  Johnson  (Connecticut) 
was    President    of    Columbia    College. 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


47 


Gerry  (Massachusetts)  was  later  Vice- 
President  of  the  United  States,  and 
Ingersoll  (Pennsylvania)  a  candidate 
for  the  Vice-Presidency. 

Gorham  (Massachusetts)  and  Mifflin 
(Pennsylvania)  had  been  Presidents  of 
the  Continental  Congress;  Clymer 
(Pennsylvania),  Continental  Treasurer; 
Robert  Morris  (Pennsylvania),  Super- 
intendent of  Finances;  Sherman  (Con- 
necticut), a  member  of  the  Board  of 
War  and  Ordnance,  all  in  the  Conti- 
nental Congress. 

We  might  add,  as  among  the  mosi 
distinguished  of  this  group,  the  other 
Morris  (Gouverneur)  from  Pennsyl- 
vania, and  the  other  Pinckney  (Charles 
Cotesworth)  from  South  Carolina. 

There  were  many  other  distinguished 
men.  They  were  distinguished  before 
the  time  of  the  Convention;  they  won 
great  distinction  after.  Men  of  affairs 
and  influence,  they  were  in  their  re- 
spective Colonies,  later  States.  They 
were  all  seasoned  patriots  of  loftiest 
patriotism.  They  were  not  backwoods- 
men from  the  far-off  frontiers,  not  one 
of  them. 

What  a  group  of  men  of  surpassing 
abilities,  attainments,  experience,  and 
achievements!  There  has  not  been  an- 
other such  group  of  men  in  all  the  one 
hundred  seventy  years  of  our  history, 
no  group  that  even  challenged  the 
supremacy  of  this  group.  Gladstone 
solemnly  declared: 

"The  American  Constitution  is  the 
most  wonderful  work  ever  struck  off  at 
a  given  time  by  the  brain  and  purpose 
of  man." 

When  God  Plows  His  Furrow 

When  God  puts  his  hand  to  the  plow, 
his  furrow  is  deep  and  straight,  clear  to 
the  end.  God  gave  us  the  heritage; 
ours  is  the  duty  to  cherish  and  protect 
it.  We  have,  as  a  people,  a  special  re- 
lationship to  these  men  and  their  work. 

In  a  revelation  to  Joseph  at  Kirtland 
at  the  time  of  some  of  the  darkest  days 
in  Missouri  (December  16,  1833),  when 
there  seemed  to  be  no  protection  for 
the  Saints  from  the  civil  authorities,  the 
Lord  spoke.  He  told  the  people  to  con- 
tinue to  "importune  for  redress.  .  .  . 

"According  to  the  laws  and  constitu- 
tion of  the  people,  which  I  have 
suffered  to  be  established,  and  should  be 


maintained  for  the  rights  and  protec- 
tion of  all  flesh,  according  to  just  and 
holy  principles; 

"That  every  man  may  act  in  doctrine 
and  principle  pertaining  to  futurity,  ac- 
cording to  the  moral  agency  which  I 
have  given  unto  him,  that  every  man 
may  be  accountable  for  his  own  sins 
in  the  day  of  judgment. 

"Therefore,  it  is  not  right  that  any 
man  should  be  in  bondage  one  to  an- 
other. 

"And  for  this  purpose  have  I  estab- 
lished the  Constitution  of  this  land,  by 
the  hands  of  wise  men  whom  I  raised 
up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the  land  by  the  shedding  of  blood." 
(D  &  C  101:77-80.) 

A  little  time  before  this,  the  Lord  de- 
clared that  the  constitutional  "principle 
of  freedom  in  maintaining  rights  and 
privileges,  belongs  to  all  mankind,  and 
is  justifiable  before  me,"  and  that  the 
people  should  "renounce  war  and  pro- 
claim peace."  (August  6,  1833,  ibid., 
98:5,  16.) 

When  (1833)  the  Lord  gave  these 
approving  revelations,  the  Constitution 
with  its  coterminous  Bill  of  Rights,  was 
almost  fifty  years  old.  Two  amendments 
only  had  then  been  made;  one  (1798) 
concerned  the  Federal  judicial  power,  the 
other  (1804)  the  election  of  President 
and  Vice  President.  Some  thirty  years 
later  (1865,  1868)  came  the  next  two 
amendments  terminating  slavery  and 
guaranteeing  citizenship,  and  its  protec- 
tion, so  meeting  the  principle  declared 
by  the  Lord  in  1833  regarding  bondage 
of  men,  one  to  another. 

In  the  prayer  of  dedication  of  the 
Kirtland  Temple,  the  Prophet  prayed: 
".  .  .  may  those  principles,  which  were 
so  honorably  and  nobly  defended,  name- 
ly, the  Constitution  of  our  land,  by  our 
fathers,  be  established  forever."  (Ibid., 
109:54,  March  27,  1836.) 

In  1835  (August  17),  at  a  general 
assembly  of  the  Church  held  at  Kirt- 
land, a  far-reaching  "Declaration  of  Be- 
lief regarding  Governments  and  Laws  in 
general"  was  adopted  by  the  Saints. 
(Ibid.,  134.) 

These  Framers  of  the  Constitution 
were  the  men  whom  the  Lord  "raised 
up  unto  this  very  purpose,  and  redeemed 
the   land  by  the  shedding  of   blood," 


48 

Saturday,  April  6 

making  it  ready  for  the  blessings  pro 
claimed  for  all. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Second  Day 

are  now  merely  recalled  to  your  minds. 
Sometimes  we  miss  the  import  of  them. 


Preparation  of  Framers 

No  more  clearly  does  it  appear  that 
Moses  was  so  trained  in  the  royal  Egyp- 
tian courts  that  he  could  lead  ancient 
Israel  out  of  bondage,  or  that  Brother 
Brigham  was  so  trained,  in  directing 
the  exodus  of  the  Saints  from  Missouri 
to  Nauvoo,  that  he  could  lead  modern 
Israel  from  the  mobbings  and  persecu- 
tions of  the  East  to  the  freedom  of  the 
mountain  fastnesses  of  the  West;  neither 
one  was  more  clearly  trained  for  his 
work  than  these  Framers  were  trained 
for  theirs — rich  in  intellectual  endow- 
ment and  ripened  in  experience.  They 
were  equally  as  the  others  in  God's 
hands;  he  guided  them  in  their  epoch- 
making  deliberations  in  Independence 
Hall. 

The  Framers  were  deeply  read  in  the 
facts  of  history;  they  were  learned  in 
the  forms  and  practices  and  systems  of 
the  governments  of  the  world,  past  and 
present;  they  were,  in  matters  political, 
equally  at  home  in  Rome,  in  Athens, 
in  Paris,  and  in  London;  they  had  a 
long,  varied,  and  intense  experience  in 
the  work  of  governing  their  various 
Colonies;  they  were  among  the  leaders 
of  a  weak  and  poor  people  that  had 
successfully  fought  a  revolution  against 
one  of  the  great  Powers  of  the  earth; 
there  were  among  them  some  of  the 
ablest,  most  experienced  and  seasoned 
military  leaders  of  the  world. 

As  to  all  matters  under  consideration 
by  the  Convention,  the  history  of  the 
world  was  combed  for  applicable  expe- 
riences and  precedents. 

The  whole  training  and  experiences 
of  the  colonists  had  been  in  the  Com- 
mon Law,  with  its  freedoms  and  liber- 
ties even  under  their  kings.  They  knew 
the  functions  of  legislative,  executive, 
and  judicial  arms  of  government. 

Some  Constitutional  Principles 

Time  is  not  available  now  to  con- 
sider in  detail  the  work  of  the  Con- 
vention nor  the  Constitution  that  was 
framed.  A  very  few  principles  only,  and 
they  among  the  basic  ones,  may  be 
mentioned.     You  all  know  them;  they 


Three  Independent  Branches 

First — The  Constitution  provided  for 
three  departments  of  government — the 
legislative,  the  executive,  and  the  judi- 
cial. 

These  departments  are  mutually  in- 
dependent the  one  from  the  other. 

Each  department  was  endowed  with 
all  the  powers  and  authority  that  the 
people  through  the  Constitution  con- 
ferred upon  that  branch  of  government 
— the  legislative,  the  executive,  and  the 
judicial,  respectively. 

No  Encroachment  by  One  Branch  Upon 
Another 

No  branch  of  the  government  might 
encroach  upon  the  powers  conferred  up- 
on another  branch  of  government.  In 
order  to  forestall  foreseeable  encroach- 
ments, the  Convention  provided  in  the 
Constitution  itself  for  a  very  few  in- 
vasions by  one  or  the  other,  into  one 
of  the  other  departments,  to  make  sure 
that  one  department  should  not  absorb 
the  functions  of  the  other  or  encroach 
thereon,  or  gain  an  overbalancing  power 
and  authority  against  the  other.  These 
have  been  termed  "checks  and  balances." 

Non-delegation  of  Powers 

A  third  principle  that  was  inherent  in 
all  the  provisions  of  the  Constitution 
was  that  none  of  the  departments  could 
delegate  its  powers  to  the  others.  The 
courts  of  the  country  have  from  the  first 
insisted  upon  the  operation  of  this  prin- 
ciple. There  have  been  some  fancy 
near-approaches  to  such  an  attempted 
delegation,  particularly  in  recent  years, 
and  some  unique  justifying  reasoning 
therefor,  but  the  courts  have  consistently 
insisted  upon  the  basic  principle,  which 
is  still  operative. 

An  examination  of  the  records  of  the 
Convention  will  show  how  anxiously 
earnest  the  Framers  were  to  set  up  these 
and  other  principles  of  free  government. 

No  Kings  in  America 

The  Convention  seems  to  have  expe- 
rienced no  really  serious  difficulty  in 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  ]R. 


49 


setting  up  a  judiciary  department,  nor, 
in  certain  aspects,  the  legislative  depart- 
ment with  its  powers,  until  it  came  to 
those  powers  which  dealt  with  matters 
that  in  some  governments  had  been  re- 
garded as  belonging  to  the  executive. 
You  will  recollect  that  practically  all  of 
these  Framers  had  suffered  under  George 
III  and  his  Minister,  Lord  North.  So 
they  abandoned  the  British  model,  for, 
as  Randolph  said,  ".  .  .  the  fixt  genius 
of  the  people  of  America  required  a 
different  form  of  Government."  This 
ruled  out  royalty. 

It  might  be  noted  that  Washington, 
as  the  Revolution  closed,  had  definitively 
scotched  at  Newburgh,  the  kingship 
idea. 

Kings  and  America 

Of  course,  the  Framers  did  not  know 
(no  living  mortal  then  knew)  that  cen- 
turies before  a  prophet  of  the  Lord  had 
declared  as  to  America: 

"Behold,  this  is  a  choice  land,  and 
whatsoever  nation  shall  possess  it  shall 
be  free  from  bondage,  and  from  cap- 
tivity, and  from  all  other  nations  under 
heaven,  if  they  will  but  serve  the  God 
of  the  land,  who  is  Jesus  Christ,  who 
hath  been  manifested  by  the  things 
which  we  have  written."  (Ether  2:12.) 

Nor  did  the  Framers  know  (again,  no 
living  mortal  then  knew)  that  centuries 
after  this  prophecy,  but  still  centuries 
before  the  Framers  met,  another  prophet 
had  declared: 

"And  this  land  shall  be  a  land  of 
liberty  unto  the  Gentiles,  and  there  shall 
be  no  kings  upon  the  land,  who  shall 
raise  up  unto  the  Gentiles."  (2  Nephi 
10:11.) 

The  unhappy,  short-lived  experiences 
of  the  Dom  Pedros  in  Brazil  and  of 
Maximilian  in  Mexico  seem  the  excep- 
tions that  prove  the  rule.  The  Spirit  of 
the  Lord  was  leading. 

The  National  Executive 

In  providing  for  the  executive  depart- 
ment, there  was  considerable  discussion 
as  to  whether  the  executive  department 
should  be  one  person  or  several.  Com- 
menting   upon    a    proposal    for   three, 


Randolph  said  their  unity  would  be  "as 
the  foetus  of  monarchy." 

Who  should  choose,  elect,  or  appoint 
(the  terms  were  used  almost  inter- 
changeably) the  Chief  Executive  was 
exhaustively  debated;  so  was  the  prob- 
lem of  the  length  of  his  term,  from  one 
year,  to  Hamilton's  during  "good  be- 
haviour," including  the  question  whether 
he  should  be  ineligible  for  re-election, 
and  whether  he  should  be  subject  to 
impeachment. 

Power  to  Declare  War 

But  one  of  their  most  searching  ex- 
aminations related  to  the  war  powers 
of  government,  including  the  power  to 
declare  war.  It  became  clear  very  early 
in  the  debates  that  as  Chief  Executive, 
the  President  should  execute  the  laws 
passed  by  Congress.  But  he  was  also 
made  Commander  in  Chief  of  the  Army 
and  Navy  of  the  United  States  and  of 
the  State  Militia  when  called  into  the 
service  of  the  United  States.  The  dele- 
gates were  fearfully  anxious  over  this 
function  of  government.  There  was  one 
suggestion  that  the  Commander  in  Chief 
should  not  personally  go  into  the  field 
with  the  troops,  so  fearful  were  they  of 
his  power. 

Where  War  Powers  Rest 

But  in  whom  should  rest  the  so-called 
war  powers?  This  was  the  urgent  prob- 
lem. It  soon  became  clear  that  the 
Convention  was  unalterably  opposed  to 
endowing  the  President  with  these  war 
powers;  it  was  conceded  he  should  have 
the  power  to  repel  invasions,  but  not 
to  commence  war,  which  meant  he  could 
not  declare  war. 

Chief  Executives  Conceived  as  Plain 
Human  Beings 

Some  of  the  arguments  made  in  this 
connection,  involving  the  possibility  of 
a  military  usurper,  remind  one  of  the 
potential  calamities  pictured  by  Lincoln 
in  his  prophetic  Lyceum  Address,  where 
he  sketched  what  an  ambitious,  fame- 
and-power-seeking  executive  might  do. 

Various  other  potential  actions  by  the 
executive  were  explored.  Future  Presi- 
dents of  the  Republic  were  conceived  as 
including    men    capable   of    doing   the 


50 

Saturday,  April  6 

things  that  ambitious  men  in  power 
had  done  over  the  ages.  Men  were  still 
human,  had  the  same  urges  and  ambi- 
tions. The  earnest  effort  was  to  make 
as  nearly  impossible  as  could  be,  the 
malfeasances  of  the  past  by  men  in  high 
executive  office  in  the  future;  and  seem- 
ingly perhaps  beyond  everything  else  as 
a  practical  matter,  to  prevent  the  Presi- 
dent from  taking  us  into  war  of  his  own 
volition.  The  Framers  therefore  pro- 
vided that  the  war  powers,  including  the 
declaration  of  war,  should  rest  exclu- 
sively in  the  Congress,  both  by  express 
provisions,  and,  as  the  record  shows,  by 
the  conscious  intent  of  the  Framers. 

The  Net  Position  of  the  National 
Executive 

The  net  result  may  be  stated  thus:  as 
Chief  Executive,  the  President  was  to 
enforce  the  laws  passed  by  Congress, 
including  those  passed  by  Congress  in 
the  exercise  of  the  war  powers  that  were 
explicitly  and  exclusively  possessed  by 
Congress;  as  Commander  in  Chief  of 
the  Army  and  Navy  of  the  United  States 
and  of  the  Militia  of  the  States  when 
called  into  the  actual  service  of  the 
United  States,  he  was  to  direct  the  mili- 
tary operations  thereof  in  the  field,  with 
the  powers  incident  thereto. 

These  principles  should  never  be  for- 
gotten by  any  free,  liberty-loving 
American,  the  kind  of  American  the 
Constitution  and  the  Bill  of  Rights  make 
of  us,  and  in  which  they  were  designed 
to  protect  us. 

The  People  Are  Sovereign 

Furthermore,  under  our  form  of  gov- 
ernment, we  the  people  of  the  United 
States,  as  the  Preamble  to  the  Constitu- 
tion declares,  formed  this  government. 
We  alone  are  sovereign.  We  are  wholly 
free  to  exercise  our  sovereign  will  in  the 
way  we  prescribe.  The  sovereignty  is 
not  personal,  as  under  the  Civil  Law. 
The  Constitution  expressly  provides  the 
only  way  in  which  we  may  change  our 
Constitution. 

We  may  well  repeat  again:  We  the 
people  have  all  the  powers  we  have  not 
delegated  away  to  our  government,  and 
the  institutions  of  government  have  such 
powers  and  those  only  as  we  have  given 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

to  them.  The  total  residuum  of  powers, 
including  all  rights  and  liberties  not 
given  up  by  us  to  Federal  or  State  Gov- 
ernments, is  still  in  us,  to  remain  so  till 
we  constitutionally  provide  otherwise. 
Under  the  Civil  Law  that  basically 
governs  Continental  Europe,  the  people 
have  only  such  rights  as  a  personal 
sovereign  or  his  equivalent  bestows,  the 
residuum  remaining  in  him  or  them. 
Wherever  and  whenever  powers  are  ex- 
ercised by  any  person  or  branch  of  our 
government  that  are  not  granted  by  the 
Constitution,  such  powers  are  to  that 
extent  usurpations. 

The  Constitution  and  Ourselves 

Will  not  each  of  you  ask  yourself 
this  question:  What  would  prob- 
ably have  happened  if  Joseph  Smith  had 
been  born  and  had  attempted  to  carry 
on  his  work  of  the  Restoration  of  the 
Gospel  and  the  Holy  Priesthood,  if  he 
had  been  born  and  had  sought  to  go 
forward  in  any  other  country  in  the 
world? 

Must  we  go  far  to  seek  why  God  set 
up  this  people  and  their  government, 
the  only  government  on  the  face  of  the 
earth,  since  the  Master  was  here,  that 
God  has  formally  declared  was  set  up 
at  the  hands  of  men  whom  he  raised  up 
for  that  very  purpose,  and  the  funda- 
mental principles  of  which  he  has  ex- 
pressly approved? 

Constitution  Is  Part  of  My  Religion 

Having  in  mind  what  the  Lord  has 
said  about  the  Constitution  and  its 
Framers,  that  the  Constitution  should 
be  "established,  and  should  be  main- 
tained for  the  rights  and  protection  of  all 
flesh,"  that  it  was  for  the  protection  of 
the  moral  agency,  free  agency,  God 
gave  us,  that  its  "principle  of  freedom 
in  maintaining  rights  and  privileges, 
belongs  to  all  mankind,"  all  of  which 
point  to  the  destiny  of  the  free  govern- 
ment our  Constitution  provides,  unless 
thrown  away  by  the  nations — having  in 
mind  all  this,  with  its  implications, 
speaking  for  myself,  I  declare  that  the 
divine  sanction  thus  repeatedly  given  by 
the  Lord  himself  to  the  Constitution  of 
the  United  States  as  it  came  from  the 
hands  of  the  Framers  with   its   coter- 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


51 


minous  Bill  of  Rights,  makes  of  the 
principles  of  that  document  an  integral 
part  of  my  religious  faith.  It  is  a  revela- 
tion from  the  Lord.  I  believe  and 
reverence  its  God-inspired  provisions. 
My  faith,  my  knowledge,  my  testimony 
of  the  Restored  Gospel,  based  on  the 
divine  principle  of  continuous  revelation, 
compel  me  so  to  believe.  Thus  has  the 
Lord  approved  of  our  political  system,  an 
approval,  so  far  as  I  know,  such  as  he 
has  given  to  no  other  political  system 
of  any  other  people  in  the  world  since 
the  time  of  Jesus. 

The  Constitution,  as  approved  by  the 
Lord,  is  still  the  same  great  vanguard 
of  liberty  and  freedom  in  human  gov- 
ernment that  it  was  the  day  it  was 
written.  No  other  human  system  of 
government,  affording  equal  protection 
for  human  life,  liberty,  and  the  pursuit 
of  happiness,  has  yet  been  devised  or 
vouchsafed  to  man.  Its  great  princi- 
ples are  as  applicable,  efficient,  and 
sufficient  to  bring  today  the  greatest 
good  to  the  greatest  number,  as  they 
were  the  day  the  Constitution  was 
signed.  Our  Constitution  and  our  Gov- 
ernment under  it,  were  designed  by  God 
as  an  instrumentality  for  righteousness 
through  peace,  not  war. 

Our  Constitutional  Destiny 

Speaking  of  the  destiny  that  the  Lord 
has  offered  to  mankind  in  his  declara- 
tions regarding  the  scope  and  efficacy  of 
the  Constitution  and  its  principles,  we 
may  note  that  already  the  Lord  has 
moved  upon  many  nations  of  the  earth 
so  to  go  forward.  The  Latin  American 
countries  have  followed  our  lead  and 
adopted  our  constitutional  form  of  gov- 
ernment, adapted  to  their  legal  con- 
cepts, without  compulsion  or  restraint 
from  us.  Likewise,  the  people  of  Can- 
ada in  the  British  North  America  Act 
have  embodied  great  principles  that  are 
basic  to  our  Constitution.  The  people  of 
Australia  have  likewise  followed  along 
our  governmental  footpath.  In  Canada 
and  in  Australia,  the  great  constitutional 
decisions  of  John  Marshall  and  his  asso- 
ciates are  quoted  in  their  courts  and 
followed  in  their  adjudications.  I  re- 
peat, none  of  this  has  come  because  of 
force  of  arms.  The  Constitution  will 
never  reach  its  destiny  through   force. 


God's  principles  are  taken  by  men  be- 
cause they  are  eternal  and  true,  and 
touch  the  divine  spirit  in  men.  This  is 
the  only  true  way  to  permanent  world 
peace,  the  aspiration  of  men  since  the 
beginning.  God  never  planted  his  Spirit, 
his  truth,  in  the  hearts  of  men  from  the 
point  of  a  bayonet. 

The  Framers  had  their  dark  days  in 
their  work.  There  were  discourage- 
ments, there  were  hours  of  near  hope- 
lessness for  some.  Yet,  as  they  were 
engaged  in  God's  work,  and  he  was  at 
the  helm,  we  know  it  was  as  certain 
as  the  day  dawn,  that  Satan  would  be 
there  also,  with  his  thwarting  designs. 

But  I  see  in  their  divers  views,  their 
different  concepts,  even  the  promotion 
of  their  different  local  interests,  not  the 
confusion  which  challenged  Franklin, 
but  a  searching,  almost  meticulous  study 
and  examination  of  the  fundamental 
principles  involved,  and  the  final  adop- 
tion of  the  wisest  and  best  of  it  all — 
I  see  the  winnowing  of  the  wheat,  the 
blowing  away  of  the  chaff. 

Franklin's  Prayer 

On  one  of  these  dark  days,  the  ven- 
erable Franklin,  ripe  in  years  and  in 
experience,  arose  and  spoke  to  the  Con- 
vention (June  28,  1787).    Said  he: 

"The  small  progress  we  have  made 
after  4  or  five  weeks  close  attendance 
&  continual  reasonings  with  each 
other — our  different  sentiments  on  al- 
most every  question,  several  of  the  last 
producing  as  many  noes  as  ays,  is  me- 
thinks  a  melancholy  proof  of  the  imper- 
fection of  the  Human  Understanding. 
We  indeed  seem  to  feel  our  own  want 
of  political  wisdom,  since  we  have  been 
running  about  in  search  of  it.  We  have 
gone  back  to  ancient  history  for  models 
of  Government,  and  examined  the  dif- 
ferent forms  of  those  Republics  which 
having  been  formed  with  the  seeds  of 
their  own  dissolution  now  no  longer 
exist.  And  we  have  viewed  Modern 
States  all  round  Europe,  but  find  none 
of  their  Constitutions  suitable  to  our 
circumstances. 

"In  this  situation  of  this  Assembly, 
groping  as  it  were  in  the  dark  to  find 
political  truth,  and  scarce  able  to  dis- 
tinguish it  when  presented  to  us,  how 


52 

Saturday,  April  6 

has  it  happened,  Sir,  that  we  have  not 
hitherto  once  thought  of  humbly  apply- 
ing to  the  Father  of  lights  to  illuminate 
our  understandings?  In  the  beginning 
of  the  Contest  with  G.  Britain,  when 
we  were  sensible  of  danger  we  had 
daily  prayer  in  this  room  for  the  divine 
protection. — Our  prayers,  Sir,  were 
heard,  and  they  were  graciously  an- 
swered. All  of  us  who  were  engaged  in 
the  struggle  must  have  observed  fre- 
quent instances  of  a  Superintending 
providence  in  our  favor.  To  that  kind 
providence  we  owe  this  happy  oppor- 
tunity of  consulting  in  peace  on  the 
means  of  establishing  our  future  national 
felicity.  And  have  we  now  forgotten 
that  powerful  friend?  or  do  we  imagine 
that  we  no  longer  need  his  assistance? 
I  have  lived,  Sir,  a  long  time,  and  the 
longer  I  live,  the  more  convincing  proofs 
I  see  of  this  truth — that  God  governs  in 
the  affairs  of  men.  And  if  a  sparrow 
cannot  fall  to  the  ground  without  his 
notice,  is  it  probable  that  an  empire 
can  rise  without  his  aid?  We  have  been 
assured,  Sir,  in  the  sacred  writings,  that 
'except  the  Lord  build  the  House  they 
labour  in  vain  that  build  it.'  I  firmly 
believe  this;  and  I  also  believe  that 
without  his  concurring  aid  we  shall 
succeed  in  this  political  building  no 
better  than  the  Builders  of  Babel:  We 
shall  be  divided  by  our  little  partial 
local  interests;  our  projects  will  be  con- 
founded, and  we  ourselves  shall  become 
a  reproach  and  bye  word  down  to  future 
ages.  And  what  is  worse,  mankind  may 
hereafter  from  this  unfortunate  instance, 
despair  of  establishing  Governments  by 
Human  Wisdom  and  leave  it  to  chance, 
war  and  conquest."    So  spoke  Franklin. 

My  Witness 

Out  of  more  years,  but  of  far,  far  less 
wisdom  and  experience,  I  echo  Frank- 
lin's testimony  "that  God  governs  in  the 
affairs  of  men,"  and  that  without  his 
concurring  aid  we  shall  build  in  vain, 
and  "our  projects  will  be  confounded, 
and  we  ourselves  shall  become  a  re- 
proach and  bye  word  down  to  future 
ages." 

I  bear  my  testimony  that  without 
God's  aid,  we  shall  not  preserve  our 
political  heritage  neither  to  our  own 
blessing,  nor  to  the  blessing  of  our  pos- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

terity,  nor  to  the  blessing  of  the  down- 
trodden peoples  of  the  world. 

In  broad  outline,  the  Lord  has  de- 
clared through  our  Constitution  his  form 
for  human  government.  Our  own 
prophets  have  declared  in  our  day  the 
responsibility  of  the  Elders  of  Zion  in 
the  preservation  of  the  Constitution. 
We  cannot,  guiltless,  escape  that  re- 
sponsibility. We  cannot  be  laggards, 
nor  can  we  be  deserters. 

On  the  back  of  the  chair  in  which 
Washington  sat  as  President  during  the 
Convention,  was  carved  a  half-hidden 
sun,  showing  just  above  a  range  of  hills. 
As  the  signing  of  the  Constitution  was 
about  over,  Franklin  observed  to  some 
fellow  delegates: 

"I  have  often  and  often,  in  the  course 
of  the  session,  and  the  vicissitudes  of 
my  hopes  and  fears  as  to  its  issue, 
looked  at  that  (sun)  behind  the  Presi- 
dent, without  being  able  to  tell  whether 
it  was  rising  or  setting;  but  now,  at 
length,  I  have  the  happiness  to  know 
that  it  is  a  rising,  and  not  a  setting 
sun." 

Such  was  the  prophecy  that  marked 
the  closing  of  the  greatest  political  con- 
vention of  all  time,  for  the  Lord  was 
there  working  out  his  purposes  in  a 
system  he  could  endorse. 

God  give  us  the  power,  each  of  us, 
to  enshrine  in  our  hearts  the  eternal 
truths  of  our  Constitution;  that  come 
what  may,  we  shall  never  desert  these 
truths,  but  work  always  and  unceasingly 
that,  as  Lincoln  said,  "government  of  the 
people,  by  the  people,  for  the  people, 
shall  not  perish  from  the  earth." 

Such  is  my  prayer,  and  I  ask  it  in  the 
name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  speaker  to  whom  you  have  just 
listened  is  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr., 
of  the  First  Presidency  of  the  Church. 
The  Chorus  from  the  University  of 
Utah  Institute  of  Religion  and  the  Con- 
gregation will  now  join  in  singing  "Now 
Let  Us  Rejoice  in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 
Elder  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant  Con- 
ductor of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  will 
lead  us.  Following  the  singing,  we  shall 
hear  from  Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


53 


The  Chorus  and  congregation,  accom- 
panied by  the  Bonneville  Strings,  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "Now,  Let  Us  Re- 
joice in  the  Day  of  Salvation." 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Council 
of  the  Twelve  will  now  address  us.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Milton  R. 
Hunter. 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brethren  and  sisters, 
humbly  and  gratefully  I  approach 
this  sobering  responsibility.  I  am 
grateful  for  this  conference.  I  have  had 
a  prayer  in  my  heart  in  the  last  few 
moments  that  every  person  living  in 
this  world  might  have  the  opportunity 
to  hear  and  to  read  the  masterful  address 
given  by  our  beloved  President  at  the 
beginning  of  this  conference  and  the 
great  and  statesmanlike  address  to  which 
we  have  just  listened  from  President 
Clark. 

For  months  I  have  had  borne  in  upon 
my  heart  a  desire  to  discuss  a  certain 
matter  in  this  conference  which  I  feel 
impressed  to  discuss  with  you.  I  hope 
I  will  not  be  misunderstood.  I  assure 
you  that  I  also  need  the  counsel  which 
I  am  about  to  express. 

In  the  book  of  Kings  we  read  about 
a  woman  who  came  weeping  to  Elisha, 
the  prophet.  Her  husband  had  died, 
and  she  owed  a  debt  that  she  could  not 
pay;  and  the  creditor  was  on  his  way 
to  take  her  two  sons  and  sell  them  as 
slaves. 

By  a  miracle  Elisha  enabled  her  to 
acquire  a  goodly  supply  of  oil.  And  he 
said  to  her: 

Go,  sell  the  oil,  and  pay  thy  debt,  and 
live  thou  and  thy  children  of  the  rest. 
(II  Kings  4:1-7.) 

"Pay  thy  debt,  and  live."  How  fruit- 
ful these  words  have  ever  been!  What 
wise  counsel  they  are  for  us  today! 

Read  the  words  of  wise  men  down 
through  the  ages,  and  we  find  over  and 
over  again  this  great  insistence  upon 
the  wisdom  of  being  debt-free.  Shake- 
speare put  on  the  lips  of  one  of  his 
characters  in  Hamlet  these  words: 

Neither  a  borrower  nor  a  lender  be: 
For  loan  oft  loses  both  itself  and  friend, 
And  borrowing  dulls  the  edge  of  husbandry. 


Others  have  written: 

Do  not  accustom  yourself  to  debt  as  only 
a  convenience;  you  will  find  it  a  calamity. 
(Johnson) 

The  debt-habit  is  the  twin  brother  of 
poverty.    (Munger) 

Poverty    is    hard — but    debt    is    horrible, 

said  another  philosopher.  (Surgeon) 

John  Randolph,  one  of  the  early 
leaders  of  our  nation,  remarked: 

I  have  discovered  the  philosopher's  stone 
that  turns  everything  into  gold;  it  is,  "Pay 
as  you  go." 

And  one  of  the  wisest  men  in  the 
annals  of  our  country,  Ben  Franklin, 
wrote: 

Think  what  you  do  when  you  run  into 
debt;  you  give  to  another  power  over  your 
liberty. 

True,  times  have  changed  since  Frank- 
lin's day,  but  the  principles  of  truth 
and  wisdom  never  change.  Our  inspired 
leaders  have  always  urged  Latter-day 
Saints  to  get  out  of  debt,  live  within 
our  means,  and  pay  as  we  go. 

Our  own  pioneer  forefathers  have  left 
us  a  heritage  of  thrift — of  saving — of 
freedom  from  debt. 

Surely  they  would  counsel  us  today: 
"Pay  thy  debt,  and  live." 

I  speak  to  you  today  of  a  twofold  duty 
which  all  of  us  have — a  duty  to  our 
country  as  Americans — and  a  duty  to 
ourselves  as  individuals,  as  children  of 
God. 

Never  has  a  nation  been  so  blessed 
with  productivity  as  we  in  this  land. 
Last  year  our  output  of  goods  and  serv- 
ices reached  the  enormous  value  of  412 
billion  dollars.  This  was  an  increase 
in  terms  of  real  value  of  more  than  forty 
percent  in  the  last  ten  years.    The  in- 


54 

Saturday,  April  6 

crease  in  output  for  each  person  since 
1946  has  been  nearly  twenty  percent. 

Whence  comes  this  astounding  ca- 
pacity to  produce?  I  am  deeply  con- 
vinced that  it  lies  in  the  blessings  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  in  the  untram- 
meled  initiative,  enterprise,  and  freedom 
of  our  people,  in  the  fact  that  success 
or  failure  of  our  nation  rests  primarily 
with  the  people. 

Yet,  despite  our  wealth,  our  productiv- 
ity, our  material  progress,  do  we  not 
see  signs  of  danger  ahead?  Do  we  not 
discern  unhealthy  tendencies,  perhaps 
even  germs  of  decay,  in  a  general  weak- 
ening of  some  of  our  oldest  American 
traditions? 

In  the  past  quarter  century,  there  has 
been  a  tremendous  shift  from  individual 
to  governmental  responsibility  in  many 
phases  of  economic  and  social  life. 
There  has  been  a  rapid  shift  of  re- 
sponsibility from  the  states  to  the  federal 
government. 

Twenty-five  years  ago  the  federal  gov- 
ernment received  one-fourth  of  all  the 
taxes  collected  in  the  United  States. 
Today  the  federal  government  collects 
not  one-fourth  but  three-fourths  of  all 
our  taxes.  Twenty-five  years  ago  all 
taxes,  federal,  state,  and  local,  took 
fourteen  percent  of  our  national  income. 
Today,  taxes  take  thirty-one  percent. 

In  twenty-four  years,  our  expanding 
federal  government  has  boosted  the 
average  family's  tax  bill  from  120  to 
1600  dollars  a  year.  In  twenty-four 
years  the  national  debt  has  swollen  to 
an  average  of  7,000  dollars  for  each 
family. 

Many  forces  work  together  toward 
the  concentration  of  power  at  the  federal 
level.  Our  people  have  come  to  look 
to  the  federal  government  as  the  pro- 
vider, at  no  cost  to  them,  of  whatever 
is  needful.  If  this  trend  continues,  the 
states  may  be  left  hollow  shells,  operat- 
ing primarily  as  the  field  districts  of 
federal  departments  and  depending  upon 
the  federal   treasury  for  their  support. 

The  national  debt  today  is  277  billion 
dollars,  equal  to  two-thirds  of  a  year's 
total  income.  Interest  on  this  debt  is 
more  than  seven  billion  dollars  a  year, 
about  sixty  percent  as  much  as  the  net 
income  of  all  our  farm  people. 

Through  a  great  effort,  in  this  the 
period   of   our   greatest    prosperity,   we 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

reduced  this  debt  by  four  billion  dollars 
last  year  (1956),  and  the  expectation  is 
for  a  further  slight  reduction  this  year. 
This  but  illustrates  how  much  easier 
it  is  to  go  into  debt  than  to  get  out. 

History  teaches  that  when  individuals 
have  given  up  looking  after  their  own 
economic  needs  and  transferred  a  large 
share  of  that  responsibility  to  the  gov- 
ernment, both  they  and  the  government 
have  failed. 

At  least  twenty  great  civilizations 
have  disappeared.  The  pattern  is  shock- 
ingly similar.  All,  before  their  collapse, 
showed  a  decline  in  spiritual  values,  in 
moral  stamina,  and  in  the  freedom  and 
responsibility  of  their  citizens.  They 
showed  such  symptoms  as  excessive  taxa- 
tion, bloated  bureaucracy,  government 
paternalism,  and  generally  a  rather 
elaborate  set  of  supports,  controls,  and 
regulations,  affecting  prices,  wages,  pro- 
duction, and  consumption. 

When  we  add  up  our  total  debt — 
debt  owed  by  federal,  state,  and  local 
governments,  by  business  and  by  indi- 
viduals— the  sum  is  a  staggering  693 
billion  dollars.  In  ten  years,  our  total 
debt  has  risen  nearly  300  billion  dol- 
lars— about  seventy- five  percent.  Most 
of  this  increase  was  in  private  debts, 
which  climbed  from  252  to  425  billion 
dollars,  or  an  increase  of  seventy  percent. 

We  have  mortgaged  our  future.  We 
have  done  so  because  we  live  beyond  our 
income. 

Now  I  do  not  mean  to  say  that  all 
debt  is  bad.  Of  course  not.  Sound 
business  debt  is  one  of  the  elements  of 
growth.  Sound  mortgage  credit  is  a 
real  help  to  a  family  that  must  borrow 
for  a  home. 

But  is  it  not  apparent  that  in  the 
areas  of  both  public  and  personal  debt 
the  limitations  of  soundness  have  been 
seriously  strained? 

Personal  income,  even  after  taxes,  on 
a  per  capita  basis,  is  the  highest  it  has 
ever  been.  Yet  mortgage  debt  and 
personal  debt  have  been  increasing. 
Between  December  1952  and  December 
1956,  home  mortgage  debt  rose  sixty-nine 
percent.  This  was  by  no  means  due 
entirely  to  the  building  boom. 

Personal  debt  has  also  sharply  in- 
creased— reaching  a  total  of  42  billion 
dollars  at  the  end  of   1956,  compared 


ELDER  EZRA  TAFT  BENSON 


55 


with  about  9  billion  dollars  only  fifteen 
years  earlier.  The  increase  in  personal 
debt  during  the  past  two  years  exceeded 
the  total  personal  debt  outstanding  in 
1954.  No  matter  which  income  group 
we  select,  the  proportion  of  people  with 
such  debt  has  increased  since  1949.  A 
few  years  ago  only  one  family  out  of 
three  owed  personal  debts;  now  more 
than  half  have  such  obligations. 

Why  this  great  increase  in  debt  today? 

Have  incomes  declined  so  that  people 
must  borrow  money  to  maintain  their 
level  of  living?  No,  incomes  generally 
have  shown  a  steady  climb  to  the  present 
record  level. 

Is  there  something  about  the  distribu- 
tion of  income  which  explains  this  in- 
crease in  debt?  No,  strangely  enough, 
personal  debt  is  reported  most  frequently 
not  for  the  low  but  for  the  middle 
income  brackets,  those  families  with 
incomes  from  $3000  to  $7500  annually. 

How,  then,  can  we  explain  the  in- 
crease in  private  debt? 

One  reason,  I  believe,  is  that  the 
adult  experience  of  many  people  covers 
only  the  period  of  the  war  and  postwar 
inflationary  period,  the  years  of  high 
employment  and  high  income  since 
the  early  'forties.  During  these  years, 
those  who  went  in  debt  to  buy  a  home 
or  a  farm  saw  the  value  of  their  equity 
increase.  Those  who  bought  cars  or 
home  utilities  experienced  relatively  lit- 
tle difficulty  in  paying  for  them.  Wages 
and  prices  rose.  Incomes  increased.  The 
longer  one  postponed  a  purchase,  the 
more  he  had  to  pay. 

For  many  of  these  people  it  is  difficult 
to  believe  that  serious  recession  will 
ever  come  again.  Feeling  secure  in  their 
expectations  of  continuing  employment 
and  a  steady  flow  of  wages  and  salaries, 
they  obligate  their  future  income  with- 
out thought  of  what  they  would  do  if 
they  should  lose  their  jobs  or  their 
incomes  were  stopped  for  some  other 
reason.  But  the  best  authorities  have 
repeatedly  said  that  we  are  not  yet 
smart  enough  to  control  our  economy 
without  downward  adjustments.  Sooner 
or  later  these  adjustments  will  come. 

Another  reason  for  the  increase  in 
debt,  I  believe,  is  deeper — and  causes 
greater  concern.  This  is  the  rise  of 
materialism  as  contrasted  with  spiritual 
values.  Many  a  family,  in  order  to 
make  a  "proper  showing,"  will  commit 


itself  for  a  larger  and  more  expensive 
house  than  is  needed,  in  an  expensive 
neighborhood.  Again  almost  everyone 
would,  it  seems,  like  to  keep  up  with 
the  Joneses.  With  the  increasing 
standard  of  living,  that  temptation  in- 
creases with  each  new  gadget  that  comes 
on  the  market.  The  subtle  and  carefully 
planned  techniques  of  modern  advertis- 
ing are  aimed  at  the  weakest  points  of 
consumer  resistance.  And  there  is  a 
growing  feeling,  unfortunately,  that 
material  things  should  be  had  now, 
without  waiting,  without  saving,  without 
self-denial. 

How  many  people  stop  to  think  when 
they  buy  on  a  thirty-six-months-to-pay 
basis  that  they  place  their  future 
earnings  for  three  years  ahead  in  the 
hands  of  moneylenders.  What  is  there 
about  a  late  model  car  that  can  make 
such  a  sacrifice  worth  while? 

Worse  still,  a  large  proportion  of 
families  with  personal  debt  have  no 
liquid  assets  whatsoever  to  fall  back 
upon.  What  troubles  they  invite  if 
their  income  should  be  suddenly  cut 
off  or  seriously  reduced!  We  all  know 
of  families  who  have  obligated  them- 
selves for  more  than  they  could  pay. 

There  is  a  world  of  heartache  behind 
such  cases. 

All  of  us  as  Americans  have  a  patriotic 
responsibility  not  to  contribute  to  the 
inflation  danger  by  needlessly  building 
still  higher  the  mountain  of  total  debt. 
All  of  us  as  individuals — and  above  all, 
as  members  of  families — have  an  obli- 
gation in  conscience  not  to  mismanage 
our  resources. 

Yes,  there  is  a  tendency  for  all  of  us 
to  want  to  "keep  up  with  the  Joneses," 
but  even  though  our  income  is  low  we 
have  plenty  of  company.  This  should 
make  it  easier  to  live  within  our  in- 
come and  resist  borrowing  from  the  fu- 
ture except  in  cases  of  necessity — never 
for  luxuries. 

It  is  not  fair  to  ourselves  or  our 
communities  to  be  so  improvident  in 
our  spending  that  the  day  our  income 
stops  we  must  turn  to  relief  agencies 
or  the  Church  for  financial  aid. 

Do  not,  I  solemnly  urge  you,  tie  your- 
selves to  the  payment  of  carrying 
charges  that  are  often  exorbitant.  Save 
now  and  buy  later,  and  you  will  be 
much  farther  ahead.  You  will  spare 
yourselves  high  interest  and  other  pay- 


56 

Saturday,  April  6 

ments,  and  the  money  you  save  may 
provide  opportunity  for  you  to  buy  later 
at  substantial  cash  discounts. 

If  you  must  incur  debt  to  meet  the 
reasonable  necessities  of  life — such  as 
buying  a  house  and  furniture — then,  I 
implore  you,  as  you  value  your  solvency 
and  happiness,  buy  within  your  means. 

So,  use  credit  wisely — to  acquire  a 
farm,  to  own  a  home. 

But  resist  the  temptation  to  plunge 
into  a  property  far  more  pretentious  or 
spacious  than  you  really  need. 

How  much  better  off  you  will  be, 
especially  young  families  just  starting 
out,  if  first  you  buy  a  small  house 
which  you  can  expect  to  pay  for  in  a 
relatively  short  time.  Such  a  house  in 
a  neighborhood  where  values  are  in- 
creasing will  usually  provide  the  basis 
for  a  very  large  down  payment  on  a 
bigger  home  when  you  are  ready  for  it. 

True,  you  can  sometimes  buy  with 
little  or  no  down  payment,  and  on 
long  terms.  But  these  terms  mean  that 
a  very  large  part  of  your  total  payments 
will  go  to  pay  interest  charges,  not  to 
retire  the  principal  of  the  debt.  Re- 
member, interest  never  sleeps  or  takes 
a  holiday.  Such  payments  of  interest 
can  easily  become  a  tremendous  burden, 
especially  when  you  add  to  them  taxes 
and  cost  of  repairs. 

Do  not  leave  yourself  or  your  family 
unprotected  against  financial  storms. 
Forego  luxuries,  for  the  time  being  at 
least,  to  build  up  savings.  How  wise 
it  is  to  provide  for  the  future  education 
of  children  and  for  old  age. 

The  smaller  the  family  income,  the 
more  important  it  is  that  every  dollar 
be  used  wisely.  Efficient  spending  and 
saving  will  give  the  family  more  security, 
more  opportunities,  more  education,  and 
a  higher  standard  of  living. 

As  I  look  back  on  the  establishment 
of  my  own  home  I'm  grateful  for  a 
companion  who,  although  accustomed 
to  many  of  the  luxuries  of  life,  was 
willing  to  start  humbly. 

Vividly,  I  recall  her  doing  the  wash- 
ing by  hand  until  we  could  buy  a  sec- 
ondhand washer.  There  was  no 
overstuffed  furniture;  there  was  no 
carpeting  on  the  floors.  As  a  graduate 
student  on  a  $70-a-month  scholarship,  I 
recall  entertaining  at  dinner  the  head 
of  the  department  at  the  college.  He 
sat  down  at  a  card  table — which  was 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

not  used  for  cards — because  there  was 
no  dining  table.  We  gathered  vege- 
tables from  the  college  experimental 
plots  to  cut  down  on  the  grocery  bill 
and  live  within  our  means.  Many  have 
had  similar  experiences  in  a  determina- 
tion to  make  ends  meet. 

Now,  when  personal  incomes  na- 
tionally are  at  the  highest  level  in 
history,  is  the  time  to  pay  off  obliga- 
tions. 

I  doubt  that  there  will  be  soon  again 
a  more  favorable  time  for  Latter-day 
Saints  generally  to  get  out  of  debt  than 
now.  Let  us  use  the  opportunity  we 
have  to  speed  up  repayment  of  mort- 
gages and  to  set  aside  provisions  for 
education,  possible  periods  of  decreased 
earning  power,  and  emergencies  the  fu- 
ture may  hold. 

Truly,  man  does  not  live  by  bread 
alone.  A  good  name  is  still  to  be  pre- 
ferred to  great  riches.  Especially  is  it 
to  be  preferred  to  the  appearance  of 
riches,  acquired  with  nothing  down  and 
nothing  to  pay  for  two  months. 

Stewardship,  not  conspicuous  con- 
sumption, is  the  proper  relationship  of 
man  to  material  wealth. 

There  may  never  be  a  more  favorable 
time  than  now  for  most  people  to  get 
their  financial  house  in  order  so  far 
as  debt  is  concerned. 

Yes,  let  us  live  within  our  income. 
Let  us  pay  as  we  go.  Let  us  "pay  thy 
debt,  and  live!" 

Cry  unto  the  Lord  for  strength  to 
heed  the  counsel  of  the  oracles  of  God. 
The  prophet  Amulek  said: 

Cry  unto  him  over  the  crops  of  your 
fields,  that  ye  may  prosper  in  them. 

Cry  over  the  flocks  of  your  fields,  that  they 
may  increase.   (Alma  34:24-25.) 

May  I  add  this  to  Amulek's  counsel: 
Pray  to  the  Lord  over  your  debts  that 
they  may  be  paid.  Pray  to  him  for 
faith  to  get  out  of  debt,  to  live  within 
your  means,  and  to  pay  as  you  go. 

Yes,  "pay  thy  debt,  and  live!" 

My  brothers  and  sisters — Latter-day 
Saints — let  us  heed  the  counsel  of  the 
leadership  of  the  Church.  Get  out  of 
debt! 

Let  us  pay  first  our  obligations  to  our 
Heavenly  Father.  Then  we  will  more 
easily  pay  our  debts  to  our  fellow  men. 
Let  us  heed  the  counsel  of  President 
Brigham  Young,  who  said: 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 


57 


Pay  your  debts  ...  do  not  run  into  debt 
any  more.  ...  Be  prompt  in  everything, 
and  especially  to  pay  your  debts. 


President  Joseph  F.  Smith: 


...  In  the  time  of  prosperity  ...  get  out 
of  debt.  ...  If  you  desire  to  prosper,  and 
to  be  ...  a  free  people,  first  meet  your 
obligations  to  God  and  then  ...  to  your 
fellow  men. 

President  Heber  J.  Grant: 

Tithing  is  a  law  of  God  ...  be  honest 
with  the  Lord  and  I  promise  them  [the 
Latter-day  Saints]  that  peace,  prosperity, 
and  financial  success  will  attend.  Let  me 
warn  the  Latter-day  Saints  to  buy  automo- 
biles .  .  .  and  the  luxuries  of  life  .  .  .  when 
they  have  the  money  to  buy  them,  and  not 
to  mortgage  their  future. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  there  is  a  peace 
and   a  contentment  which  comes  into 


the    heart   when    we    live   within    our 
means. 

God  grant  us  the  wisdom  and  the 
faith  to  heed  the  inspired  counsel  of 
the  priesthood  to  get  out  of  debt,  to 
live  within  our  means  and  to  pay  as 
we  go — in  short,  to  "pay  thy  debt,  and 
live,"  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Ezra  Taft  Benson  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  Secretary  of  Agricul- 
ture in  the  Cabinet  of  the  President  of 
the  United  States,  has  fust  concluded 
speaking.  Elder  Milton  R.  Hunter  will 
now  address  us.  Elder  Hunter  has  been 
ill  for  some  time.  We  are  glad  that  he 
is  active  again,  and  so  if  we  restrict  you 
now,  Elder  Hunter,  to  six  or  seven  min- 
utes it  will  be  in  consideration  of  your 
health. 


ELDER  MILTON  R.  HUNTER 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


My  dear  brethren  and  sisters,  I  hum- 
bly ask  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  and  also  the  guidance 
of  the  Spirit  of  God  that  I  might  express 
a  few  thoughts  and  feelings  that  are  in 
my  heart  today. 

I  am  happy  beyond  expression  to  be 
here,  although  it  does  entail  my  occupy- 
ing a  few  moments'  time. 

As  President  David  O.  McKay  sug- 
gested, six  months  ago  I  was  ill;  but  I 
listened  to  the  conference  over  the  radio. 
I  heard  our  beloved  prophet,  seer,  and 
revelator  in  his  most  kind  and  beautiful 
way  excuse  Dr.  Ernest  L.  Wilkinson, 
president  of  Brigham  Young  University, 
who  was  also  ill,  and  myself  from  con- 
ference, extend  his  blessings  to  us,  and 
ask  that  the  Spirit  of  God  be  with  us 
that  we  might  become  well.  Then  I 
listened  to  the  prayers  given  by  various 
stake  presidents  at  the  conference  ses- 
sions. They  humbly  remembered  us  in 
their  prayers  and  faithfully  pleaded  with 
our  Father  in  heaven  to  restore  us  to 
health.  I  knew  at  that  time  that  we 
would  both  have  a  complete  restora- 
tion of  health   and  strength.     I   stand 


here  today  humbly  acknowledging  the 
goodness  of  God,  testifying  that  he  has 
preserved  our  lives  and  restored  both  of 
us  to  health.  We  are  now  well  and 
able  to  go  forth  and  do  our  assigned 
tasks. 

Never  in  my  life  have  I  had  as  much 
gratitude  in  my  heart  for  the  blessings 
of  my  Father  in  heaven  as  I  have  at  the 
present  time.  I  thank  him  for  all  the 
blessings  that  I  have  received,  not  only 
for  the  restoration  of  my  health  and 
strength,  which  is  most  valuable,  but 
also  for  the  gospel,  for  the  privilege  I 
have  of  being  a  member  of  the  Church, 
for  the  testimony  of  the  gospel  which 
I  possess,  and  for  the  opportunities  that 
I  have  to  work  in  the  Church.  I  recog- 
nize our  Father  in  heaven  as  the  giver 
of  all  gifts  and  gratefully  acknowledge 
that  he  has  been  very,  very  generous 
with  me. 

In  deep  humility  I  want  to  take  this 
special  opportunity  to  thank  from  the 
depths  of  my  heart  President  David  O. 
McKay,  his  Counselors — Brother  Stephen 
L  Richards  and  Brother  J.  Reuben 
Clark,    Jr., — President    Joseph    Fielding 


58 

Saturday,  April  6 

Smith,  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve,  the 
Assistants  to  the  Apostles,  the  First 
Council  of  the  Seventy — my  close  col- 
leagues, the  Presiding  Bishopric,  and 
the  Patriarch  to  the  Church  for  their 
kindness  to  me  during  the  past  several 
months,  their  generosity,  and  their  con- 
sideration. Their  goodness  to  me  has 
been  beyond  what  I  could  ever  imagine. 
I  thank  them  from  the  depths  of  my 
heart.  All  I  can  do  is  merely  say, 
"Thank  You." 

I  have  always  recognized  these  breth- 
ren, the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church,  as  being  men  of  God,  prophets 
called  to  lead  us  in  the  kingdom.  I 
have  always  loved  them,  but  I  can 
honestly  say  this  morning  that  I  love 
them  more  deeply  than  I  ever  had  the 
ability  to  love  before.  My  illness  has 
increased   my   ability  to   appreciate. 

During  the  past  several  months  I  have 
received  numerous  letters  from  the  Saints 
in  which  they  expressed  their  apprecia- 
tion, prayers,  and  best  wishes  for  the 
restoration  of  my  health.  During  the 
past  twelve  years  I  have  stayed  in  the 
homes  of  many  of  the  stake  presidencies 
and  Saints.  I  have  toured  twenty-one 
missions  with  many  mission  presidents 
and  have  received  the  hospitality  of 
many  of  the  Saints  throughout  the  stakes 
of  Zion  and  the  mission  fields.  For  all 
of  these  things,  I  am  very,  very  grateful. 
Although  I  have  not  taken  opportunity 
during  the  past  to  express  my  apprecia- 
tion, I  now  desire  to  express  my  gratitude 
to  everyone  here  today  who  has  be- 
friended me.  Sister  Hunter  and  I  are 
especially  grateful  to  President  Wilkin- 
son and  his  good  wife  for  their  kind- 
ness to  us.  May  the  Lord  continue  his 
blessings  on  them. 

If  there  is  any  one  thing  I  have 
learned  in  the  past  few  years,  I  have 
learned  that  there  are  wonderful  people 
all  over  the  Church,  real  Saints  of  the 
Most  High. 

Last,  but  not  least,  I  should  like  to 
express  deep  appreciation  to  my  dear 
wife  and  my  children.  They  have  been 
most  wonderful  throughout  my  illness. 
They  have  taken  over  all  the  work;  in 
fact,  I  am  not  allowed  to  open  a  garage 
door,  and  that  makes  me  feel  very  lazy. 
I  feel  that  the  Lord  has  given  no  man 
in  the  world  a  better  wife  than  he  has 
given  me,  and  so  I  express  my  sincere 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

gratitude  and  deep  love  to  her  and  ap- 
preciation to  our  children. 

I  have  had  much  time  to  think  and 
meditate  during  the  past  several  months. 
I  have  always  thought  that  I  had  ap- 
preciation in  my  heart,  and  gratitude, 
but  I  have  reached  the  conclusion  that 
I,  and  maybe  you,  accept  the  numerous 
blessings  which  come  to  us  from  God 
more  or  less  for  granted,  so  to  speak — 
the  sunshine  that  we  have,  the  fresh 
air,  the  food,  and  the  clothing,  and  all 
these  things  that  we  have  from  day  to 
day,  the  health  that  we  enjoy. 

I  recognize  that  the  Psalmist  is  right 
wherein  he  declared:  "The  earth  is  the 
Lord's,  and  the  fulness  thereof;"  (Psalm 
24:1.)  And  as  King  Benjamin  so  beauti- 
fully taught  his  people,  we  are  but 
stewards;  we  are  debtors,  debtors  to  God 
for  all  that  we  possess.  He  could  take 
these  things  away  from  us  in  the 
twinkling  of  an  eye. 

I  hope  that  we  can  become  very  ap- 
preciative, because  I  think  that  is  one 
of  the  grand  principles  of  the  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ.  The  principle  of  gratitude 
is  closely  akin  to  the  attribute  of  love. 
It  is  akin  to  unselfishness.  In  showing 
our  appreciation,  I  think  possibly  the 
best  opportunity  we  have  is  to  serve 
each  other.  In  this  way  we  help  to 
build  God's  kingdom. 

So  in  closing,  I  want  to  bear  testi- 
mony that  I  know  this  is  the  true 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ,  that  he  is  our 
Savior,  our  Lord,  and  our  God.  As  he 
has  said,  those  who  take  upon  them- 
selves his  name,  who  keep  all  of  his 
commandments  and  abide  faithfully  to 
the  end,  through  his  atoning  blood  their 
garments  shall  be  washed  white,  and 
they  will  stand  spotless  before  him  at 
the  last  day  and  receive  an  eternal 
exaltation. 

May  God  bless  you  and  me  as  mem- 
bers of  the  true  Church  of  Jesus  Christ 
that  this  will  be  our  happy  lot,  I  hum- 
bly pray,  in  Jesus'  name.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  will  be  pleased  to  know  that  two 
military  groups  flew  in  here  last  evening 
from  Fort  Sill,  Oklahoma,  and  the  boys 
in  those  groups  have  been  in  attendance 
this  morning;  also,  that  on  the  balcony 
here  at  our  left  is  a  large  number  of  In- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


59 


dians,  Hopi  and  others,  faithful  mem- 
bers of  the  Church,  the  first  visit  to  a 
Conference  for  most  of  them.  About 
forty  are  here.  We  welcome  our  brothers 
and  sisters  who  are  here  representing 
their  Lamanite  brethren. 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Milton 
R.  Hunter  of  the  First  Council  of  Seven- 
ty, who  is  our  concluding  speaker.  The 
Institute  of  Religion  Chorus  from  the 
University  of  Utah,  accompanied  by  the 
Bonneville  Strings,  will  now  sing, 
"Hosannah  Anthem,"  by  Evan  Stephens. 
Elder  Shand,  who  is  conducting,  would 
like  the  Congregation  to  join  with  the 
Choir  at  his  signal, — "The  Spirit  of  God 
Like  A  Fire  Is  Burning," — you  are  ac- 
quainted with  it.  He  will  direct  you. 
Please  join  at  his  signal. 

The  closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Leonard  T.  Ralphs,  president  of 
the    American    Falls    Stake,    following 


which  this  Conference  will  stand  ad- 
journed until  two  o'clock  this  afternoon. 
The  "Hosannah  Anthem"  now  by  the 
Chorus. 

The  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus  from 
the  University  of  Utah,  the  Bonneville 
Strings,  and  the  congregation  rendered 
the  Hosannah  Anthem. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

This  chorus  under  the  leadership  of 
Elder  David  A.  Shand,  will  be  with  us 
again  this  afternoon.  The  benediction 
will  now  be  offered  by  Elder  Leonard  T. 
Ralphs,  president  of  the  American  Falls 
Stake. 

President  Leonard  T  Ralphs  of  the 
American  Falls  Stake  pronounced  the 
benediction. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2:00  p.m. 


SECOND  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  fourth  session  of  the  Conference 
convened  in  the  Tabernacle  at  2:00  p.m., 
Saturday,  April  6,  with  President  David 
O.  McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  music  for  the  afternoon  meeting 
was  furnished  by  the  Institute  of  Re- 
ligion Chorus  from  the  University  of 
Utah,  accompanied  by  the  Bonneville 
Strings,  David  A.  Shand,  conductor. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  radio  stations  over  which  this 
session  is  being  broadcast  have  just  been 
announced.  We  express  appreciation 
to  all  the  stations  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colo- 
rado, Nevada  for  kindly  giving  service 
during  this,  the  Fourth  Session  of  the 
One  Hundred  Twenty-Seventh  Annual 
Conference  of  the  Church. 

We  are  pleased  to  note  also  the  pres- 
ence this  afternoon  of  Senator  Arthur 
V.  Watkins,  Governor  and  Sister  George 
Dewey  Clyde,  Lamont  Toronto,  Secre- 
tary of  State;  our  Mayor,  Adiel  F.  Stew- 
art; Ernest  L.  Wilkinson,  president  of 
the  Brigham  Young  University;  John  L. 


Clarke,  president  of  Ricks  College;  Dr. 
William  C.  Miller,  president  of  Weber 
College;  Elliott  Cameron,  Director  of 
Snow  College;  Superintendent  of  Public 
Instruction,  E.  Allen  Bateman;  and  un- 
doubtedly there  are  others  whom  the 
Brethren  have  not  been  able  to  observe. 
We  bid  you  welcome,  and  all  who  are 
listening  in,  that  the  inspiration  of  the 
previous  gatherings  may  be  experienced 
during  this  session.  I  am  sure  it  will, 
and  we  want  you  to  share  in  this  in- 
spiration. 

The  singing  will  be  furnished  by  the 
University  of  Utah  Institute  of  Religion 
Chorus.  We  shall  begin  these  services 
by  the  Chorus  singing,  "Oh,  It  Is  Won- 
derful," arranged  by  Richard  Nibley. 
Elder  David  Austin  Shand  is  conduct- 
ing. 

The  opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by 
Elder  Rudolph  L.  Van  Kampen,  presi- 
dent of  the  Riverdale  Stake. 

The  opening  number,  which  was  sung 
by  the  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus,  was 
"Oh  It  Is  Wonderful." 


60  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Saturday,  April  6  Second  Day 

President  Rudolph  L.  VanKampen  of  We  have,   as  you  know,  the  Chorus 

the  Riverdale  Stake  offered  the  opening      accompanied  by  the  Bonneville  Strings, 
prayer.  and  we  appreciate  their  music. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  just  offered  by 
President  Rudolph  L.  Van  Kampen  of 
the  Riverdale  Stake.  The  University  of 
Utah  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus  will 
now  sing,  "Resurrection  Morning,"  ar- 
ranged by  B.  Cecil  Gates,  conducted  by 
David  Austin  Shand.  Following  this, 
President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith  will 
speak  to  us. 


Singing,  "Resurrection  Morning,"  by 
the  Chorus. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Our  first  speaker  this  afternoon  will 
be  President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Twelve  Apostles.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  EIRay  L. 
Christiansen,  one  of  the  Assistants  to 
the  Twelve. 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


IN  his  remarks  this  morning  Presi- 
dent Clark  stated  that  there  are 
those  who  would  destroy  the  Con- 
stitution of  the  United  States,  and  there 
are  those  who  would  destroy  the  Deca- 
logue, or  the  Ten  Commandments.  I 
would  like  to  speak  on  the  Ten  Com- 
mandments, if  time  would  permit,  but 
since  it  will  not  I  shall  center  on  one 
of  them — that  of  keeping  the  Sabbath 
day  holy. 

These  commandments  have  not  been 
abrogated  nor  annulled,  and  they  are 
in  force  as  much  today,  although  not 
observed,  as  they  were  when  they  were 
thundered  from  Mount  Sinai.  The  Sab- 
bath day  has  become  a  day  of  pleasure, 
of  revelry,  anything  but  a  day  of  wor- 
ship, from  one  border  of  the  country  to 
the  other;  and  I  regret  to  say  that  too 
many — one  would  be  too  many — mem- 
bers of  the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of 
Latter-day  Saints  have  joined  that  pro- 
cession, and  the  Sabbath  day  to  some 
members  of  the  Church  is  looked  upon 
as  a  day  of  revelry,  of  pleasure,  rather 
than  one  in  which  we  can  serve  the 
Lord  our  God  with  all  our  hearts,  with 
all  our  mights,  mind,  and  strength. 

The  Lord  cannot  forgive  us  when  we 
know  better  and  we  violate  his  com- 
mandments. He  has  given  unto  us  a 
law,  a  commandment,  saying  that  we 
are  to  accept  the  words  of  the  Lord  as 
he  has  revealed  them  unto  us.  We  have 
no  right  to  transgress  this  law  or  any 
one  of  the  other  laws  that  are  so  funda- 


mental to  our  exaltation,  and  how  can 
the  members  of  the  Church  expect  to 
receive  salvation  and  exaltation  in  the 
celestial  kingdom  of  God,  and  show 
contempt  for  his  sacred  command- 
ments? 

Now,  I  will  hurry  as  fast  as  I  can, 
but  I  want  to  read  to  you  a  condemna- 
tion that  the  Lord  pronounced  upon 
Israel  because  they  refused  to  keep  this 
commandment. 

"Wherefore  I  caused  them  to  go  forth 
out  of  the  land  of  Egypt,  and  brought 
them  into  the  wilderness. 

"And  I  gave  them  my  statutes,  and 
shewed  them  my  judgments,  which  if 
a  man  do,  he  shall  even  live  in  them. 

"Moreover  also  I  gave  them  my  sab- 
baths, to  be  a  sign  between  me  and  them, 
that  they  might  know  that  I  am  the  Lord 
that  sanctify  them. 

"But  the  house  of  Israel  rebelled 
against  me  in  the  wilderness:  they 
walked  not  in  my  statutes,  and  they 
despised  my  judgments,  which  if  a  man 
do,  he  shall  even  live  in  them;  and  my 
sabbaths  they  greatly  polluted:  then  I 
said,  I  would  pour  out  my  fury  upon 
them  in  the  wilderness,  to  consume 
them. 

"But  I  wrought  for  my  name's  sake, 
that  it  should  not  be  polluted  before 
the  heathen,  in  whose  sight  I  brought 
them  out. 

"Yet  also  I  lifted  up  my  hand  unto 
them  in  the  wilderness,  that   I   would 


PRESIDENT  JOSEPH  FIELDING  SMITH 


61 


not  bring  them  into  the  land  which  I 
had  given  them,  flowing  with  milk  and 
honey,  which  is  the  glory  of  all  lands; 

"Because  they  despised  my  judgments, 
and  walked  not  in  my  statutes,  but  pol- 
luted my  sabbaths:  for  their  heart  went 
after  their  idols. 

"Nevertheless  mine  eye  spared  them 
from  destroying  them,  neither  did  I 
make  an  end  of  them  in  the  wilderness. 

"But  I  said  unto  their  children  in  the 
wilderness,  Walk  ye  not  in  the  statutes 
of  your  fathers,  neither  observe  their 
judgments,  nor  defile  yourselves  with 
their  idols: 

"I  am  the  Lord  your  God;  walk  in 
my  statutes,  and  keep  my  judgments, 
and  do  them; 

"And  hallow  my  sabbaths;  and  they 
shall  be  a  sign  between  me  and  you, 
that  ye  may  know  that  I  am  the  Lord 
your  God."  (Ezek.  20:10-20.) 

Those  are  the  words  of  the  Lord  to 
Ezekiel.  Notwithstanding  all  their  back- 
sliding and  their  wickedness  and  their 
violation  of  his  commandments,  the 
Lord  still  pleaded  with  them;  and  in 
the  days  of  Ezekiel,  after  the  greatest 
number  of  the  tribes  of  Israel  had  been 
carried  off  because  of  their  rebellion, 
the  Lord  pleaded  with  those  who  still 
remained  to  keep  his  sabbaths,  to  walk 
in  his  statutes — and  even  then  they  re- 
fused. Yet  he  said  if  they  would  do 
these  things,  it  was  a  covenant  with 
him,  and  by  keeping  that  covenant  he 
would  bless  them. 

Now,  this  is  the  law  to  the  Church 
today  just  as  it  was  the  law  to  ancient 
Israel,  and  some  of  our  people  get 
rather  disturbed  because  they  feel  that 
observing  the  Sabbath  day  curtails  their 
activities.  So  I  want  to  read  to  you 
now  the  commandment  the  Lord  has 
given  to  modern  Israel,  and  this  we 
ought  to  learn  to  keep. 

"Wherefore,  I  give  unto  them  a  com- 
mandment, saying  thus:  Thou  shalt  love 
the  Lord  thy  God  with  all  thy  heart, 
with  all  thy  might,  mind,  and  strength; 
and  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ  thou 
shalt  serve  him. 

"Thou  shalt  love  thy  neighbor  as 
thyself.  Thou  shalt  not  steal;  neither 
commit  adultery,  nor  kill,  nor  do  any- 
thing like  unto  it. 


"Thou  shalt  thank  the  Lord  thy  God 
in  all  things. 

"Thou  shalt  offer  a  sacrifice  unto  the 
Lord  thy  God  in  righteousness,  even  that 
of  a  broken  heart  and  a  contrite  spirit. 

"And  that  thou  mayest  more  fully 
keep  thyself  unspotted  from  the  world, 
thou  shalt  go  to  the  house  of  prayer  and 
offer  up  thy  sacraments  upon  my  holy 
day; 

"For  verily  this  is  a  day  appointed 
unto  you  to  rest  from  your  labors,  and 
to  pay  thy  devotions  unto  the  Most 
High; 

"Nevertheless  thy  vows  shall  be  of- 
fered up  in  righteousness  on  all  days 
and  at  all  times; 

"But  remember  that  on  this,  the  Lord's 
day,  thou  shalt  offer  thine  oblations 
and  thy  sacraments  unto  the  Most  High, 
confessing  thy  sins  unto  thy  brethren, 
and  before  the  Lord. 

"And  on  this  day  thou  shalt  do  none 
other  thing,  only  let  thy  food  be  pre- 
pared with  singleness  of  heart  that  thy 
fasting  may  be  perfect,  or,  in  other 
words,  that  thy  joy  may  be  full. 

"Verily,  this  is  fasting  and  prayer, 
or  in  other  words,  rejoicing  and  prayer. 

"And  inasmuch  as  ye  do  these  things 
with  thanksgiving,  with  cheerful  hearts 
and  countenances,  not  with  much  laugh- 
ter, for  this  is  sin,  but  with  a  glad 
heart  and  a  cheerful  countenance — 

"Verily  I  say,  that  inasmuch  as  ye  do 
this,  the  fulness  of  the  earth  is  yours, 
the  beasts  of  the  field  and  the  fowls 
of  the  air,  and  that  which  climbeth  upon 
the  trees  and  walketh  upon  the  earth; 

"Yea,  and  the  herb,  and  the  good 
things  which  come  of  the  earth,  whether 
for  food  or  for  raiment,  or  for  houses, 
or  for  barns,  or  for  orchards,  or  for 
gardens,  or  for  vineyards. 

"Yea,  all  things  which  come  of  the 
earth,  in  the  season  thereof,  are  made 
for  the  benefit  and  the  use  of  man,  both 
to  please  the  eye  and  to  gladden  the 
heart; 

"Yea,  for  food  and  for  raiment,  for 
taste  and  for  smell,  to  strengthen  the 
body  and  to  enliven  the  soul. 

"And  it  pleaseth  God  that  he  hath 
given  all  these  things  unto  man;  for 
unto  this  end  were  they  made  to  be 
used,  with  judgment,  not  to  excess, 
neither  by  extortion. 


62 

Saturday,  April  6 

"And  in  nothing  doth  man  offend 
God,  or  against  none  is  his  wrath 
kindled,  save  those  who  confess  not 
his  hand  in  all  things,  and  obey  not 
his  commandments."  (D  &  C  59:5-21.) 

Now,  my  good  brethren  and  sisters, 
when  you  go  home  from  this  conference, 
you  cannot  go  home  and  say,  "The 
Brethren  have  praised  us  for  our  well- 
doing; they  have  commended  us  because 
we  have  come  into  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints."  We  can- 
not say  this  when  we  remember  our 
shortcomings  in  regard  to  the  keeping 
of  some  of  these  commandments  which 
the  Lord  has  given  us,  and  which  per- 
tain to  his  celestial  kingdom. 

We  must  stop  violating  the  Sabbath 
day.  We  must  stop  the  violation  of 
other  commandments,  should  we  be 
violating  them,  and  I  promise  you  that 
if  you  will   observe  the   Sabbath   day, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

you  who  are  opening  your  stores  on  the 
Sabbath  day,  if  you  will  close  them  and 
tend  to  the  duties  that  the  Lord  has 
given  to  you,  and  keep  his  command- 
ments, that  you  will  prosper  and  he 
will  bless  you  more  abundantly,  for  he 
has  made  that  promise,  than  you  will  be 
blessed  by  showing  your  contempt  for 
the  commandments  which  he  has  given 
unto  us. 

May  the  Lord  bless  you  one  and  all, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Joseph  Fielding  Smith, 
President  of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve, 
has  just  concluded  speaking.  Elder  El 
Ray  L.  Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the 
Twelve,  will  now  address  us.  He  will  be 
followed  by  Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins. 


ELDER  EL  RAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Ipray   humbly  that  the   few  things 
that  I  might  say  will  be  acceptable 
to    my    Heavenly   Father    and  that 
they  might  be  helpful  to  someone. 

We  live  in  a  wonderful  world,  a  won- 
derful era,  and  I  can  say  in  a  wonder- 
ful area.  In  this  world  there  are  lovely 
things,  and  things  much  to  be  desired, 
but  along  with  the  desirable  there 
are  also  those  things  which  are  not  to 
be  desired.  While  I  would  much  rather 
speak  of  the  things  which  are  desirable, 
I  feel  impelled  to  speak  of  some  things 
that  we  would  rather  not  recognize  as 
existing. 

We  are  living  in  a  day  when  prophecy 
is  being  fulfilled  among  the  nations  of 
the  earth — a  time  when  many  things 
which  have  long  been  stable  are  no 
longer  to  be  depended  upon — a  time 
when  the  integrity  of  men  and  of  na- 
tions (at  least  some  of  the  leaders  of 
some  of  the  nations)  is  too  often  ques- 
tioned. 

It  is  as  if  the  words  of  the  Savior 
(through  his  prophets)  are  being  ful- 
filled: Luke  speaks  of  the  time  when 
there  should  be  upon  the  earth  ". .  .  dis- 
tress of  nations,  with  perplexity;  .  .  ." 


(Luke  21:25.)  And  through  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith  the  Lord  speaks  of  a 
time  when  there  shall  be 

.  .  .  wars  and  rumors  of  wars,  and  the 
whole  earth  shall  be  in  commotion,  and 
men's  hearts  shall  fail  them,  and  they  shall 
say  that  Christ  delayeth  his  coming  until 
the  end  of  the  earth. 

And  the  love  of  men  shall  wax  cold, 
and  iniquity  shall  abound.  (D  &  C  45:26- 
27.) 

Rumors  of  wars  and  uprisings  are  a 
daily  diet  to  the  reader  and  the  listener 
of  news.  Severe  crises  the  world  over 
are  arising  one  after  another,  and  they 
come  to  no  satisfactory  conclusion.  (And, 
for  peculiar  reasons,  our  great  nation 
becomes  involved  in  most  of  them.) 

While  tensions  and  uprisings  continue 
throughout  the  world  there  is  in  our 
own  country,  it  seems  to  me,  an  ever- 
increasing  trend  toward  lawlessness, 
and,  on  the  part  of  some,  a  seeming  dis- 
regard and  even  contempt  for  the  law. 

There  are  many,  too,  while  holding 
places  of  trust,  who  are  suspected  of 
collusion  or  bribery  or  of  making 
"deals."  A  constant  flow  of  reports 
comes  of  investigations  of  misconduct 


ELDER  ELRAY  L.  CHRISTIANSEN 


63 


of  those  who  are  given  places  of  trust 
throughout  the  nation.  The  veracity  of 
sworn  witnesses  before  great  tribunals 
is  often  questioned,  and  contempt  for  the 
courts  of  justice  is  frequently  manifested. 

In  this  day  of  enlightenment,  in  this 
day  when  we  have  seen  almost  unbe- 
lievable progress  and  achievement  in 
science  and  invention,  one  wonders  why 
so  much  contention  and  corruption  and 
evil  doings,  sin,  should  exist  and,  if  my 
judgment  is  correct,  be  on  the  increase. 
We  ask  ourselves:  "Why  cannot  these 
things,  these  'cold  wars'  be  brought  to 
a  satisfactory  conclusion?  Why  are 
confusion  and  uncertainty  perpetuated? 
Why  this  seeming  increased  trend  to- 
ward lawlessness?" 

Is  not  the  answer  found  in  the  Book 
of  Mormon  where  we  are  told: 

.  .  .  there  are  also  secret  combinations, 
[and  he  was  looking  into  this  time,  I  think, 
as  well]  even  as  in  the  times  of  old,  ac- 
cording to  the  combinations  of  the  devil, 
for  he  is  the  foundation  of  all  these  things; 
yea,  the  foundation  of  murder,  and  works 
of  darkness;  yea,  and  he  leadeth  them  by 
the  neck  with  a  flaxen  cord,  until  he  bind- 
eth  them  with  his  strong  cords  forever. 
(2  Nephi  26:22.) 

According  to  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, ".  .  .  he  goeth  up  and  down,  to 
and  fro  in  the  earth,  seeking  to  destroy 
the  souls  of  men."  (D  &  C  10:27.)  And, 
as  Lehi  said  to  his  son  Jacob,  ".  .  .  he 
seeketh  that  all  men  might  be  miserable 
like  unto  himself."  (2  Nephi  2:27.) 
"Eat,  drink,  and  be  merry"  is  the  theme 
that  he  plays  through  his  agents. 

This  enemy  of  God  and  of  man  dwells 
in  the  earth!  But  I  fear  that  too  many 
of  us  refuse  to  recognize  his  actual 
existence  along  with  those  who  follow 
him  and  those  in  the  flesh  who  have 
become  enticed  and  blinded  by  him,  per- 
haps not  with  their  own  knowledge, 
nevertheless  having  become  his  agents. 
He  is  a  personage  of  great  power.  He 
has  knowledge  and  power  sufficient  to 
influence  the  minds  of  mortals  who 
"will  not  hearken  unto  the  counsels  of 
the  Lord." 

He  seeks  to  darken  and  mislead  the 
minds  of  men.  He  seeks  to  minimize 
the  seriousness  of  wrongdoing.  De- 
ception and  falsehood  are  his  tools.  He 
is  a  skilful  imitator.    While  he  is  sub- 


ject to  the  will  of  God  and  can  never 
overthrow  nor  overcome  God,  he  con- 
tinuously and  relentlessly  keeps  his 
forces  at  work  with  individuals  and  with 
groups,  causing  them  to  pursue  selfish 
ends  and  to  stir  up  among  them  trouble 
and  dissension  and  persuading  them  to 
disobey  the  decrees  of  the  Lord.  This 
is  substantiated  in  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon, where  we  read: 

Wherefore,  all  things  which  are  good 
cometh  of  God;  and  that  which  is  evil 
cometh  of  the  devil;  for  the  devil  is  an 
enemy  unto  God,  and  fighteth  against  him 
continually,  and  inviteth  and  enticeth  to 
sin,  and  to  do  that  which  is  evil  continually. 
(Moroni  7:12.) 

Now  this  condition  is  not  new.  It  is 
history  repeated  and  in  this  wonderful 
land  of  ours,  America.  Speaking  of  the 
iniquity  amongst  the  Nephite  civiliza- 
tion, the  record  relates  this: 

Now  the  cause  of  this  iniquity  of  the 
people  was  this — Satan  had  great  power, 
unto  the  stirring  up  of  the  people  to  do  all 
manner  of  iniquity,  and  to  the  puffing  them 
up  with  pride,  tempting  them  to  seek  for 
power,  and  authority  and  riches,  and  the 
vain  things   of  the  world. 

Now  they  did  not  sin  ignorantly,  for 
they  knew  the  will  of  God  concerning  them, 
for  it  had  been  taught  unto  them;  therefore 
they  did  wilfully  rebel  against  God.  (3 
Nephi  6:15,  18.) 

I  hope,  my  brothers  and  sisters  that 
we  will  not  repeat  the  performance  of 
that  former  civilization. 

Woodrow  Wilson,  at  one  critical 
period,  said  to  his  secretary: 

.  .  .  civilization  will  destroy  itself  by  its 
own  sinfulness,  unless  decent  people  rise 
up  and  demand  that  people  and  nations 
live  by  the  Golden  Rule. 

Now,  knowing  that  there  is  in  the 
world  this  force  of  evil  organized  by 
Satan,  what  can  be  done? 

It  seems  to  me  that  we  must  first 
recognize  this  adversary  and  his  fol- 
lowers for  what  they  are — advocates  of 
sin  and  wrongdoing,  advocates  of  dis- 
obedience. 

We  must  recognize  that  it  is  their 
determination  through  their  agencies  to 
overthrow  freedom  and  liberty,  and  if 
it  were  possible,  to  thwart  the  purposes 
of  God. 


64 

Saturday,  April  6 

But  we  are  told  that  "The  works, 
and  the  designs,  and  the  purposes  of 
God  cannot  be  frustrated,  .  .  ."  that 
only  the  work  of  men  shall  come  to 
naught.  (D  &  C  3:1.) 

We  must  continually  seek  men  for 
public  office  whose  desire  to  do  good 
supersedes  all  things  else. 

We  must  sanctify  our  own  individual 
lives  by  keeping  the  commandments  of 
the  Lord — as  one  person  prayed,  "Oh, 
Lord,  reform  the  world — beginning 
with  me."  We  must  sanctify  our  homes 
and  teach  our  children  loyalty,  obedi- 
ence, honesty,  respect  for  law,  respect 
for  others,  and  a  love  of  the  Lord. 

We  must  help  others  to  accept  Jesus 
as  the  Redeemer,  the  Savior,  the  God 
of  this  world. 

To  the  degree  that  men  acquire  these 
virtues,  their  strength  increases  and 
their  power  to  resist  evil  becomes  greater. 
Note  this  promise  that  has  been  given 
in  regard  to  this  wonderful  land  of 
America. 

Wherefore,  this  land  is  consecrated  unto 
him  whom  he  shall  bring.  And  if  it  so 
be  that  they  shall  serve  him  according  to 
the  commandments  which  he  hath  given, 
it  shall  be  a  land  of  liberty  unto  them; 
wherefore,  they  shall  never  be  brought  down 
into  captivity;  if  so,  it  shall  be  because  of 
iniquity;  for  if  iniquity  shall  abound  cursed 
shall  be  the  land  for  their  sakes,  but  unto 
the  righteous  it  shall  be  blessed  forever. 
(2  Nephi   1:7.) 

There,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  is  the 
prescription  for  peace  and  security,  na- 
tionality and  individuality. 

.  .  .  behold,  I  say,  if  the  day  shall  come 
that  they  will  reject  the  Holy  One  of  Israel, 
the  true  Messiah,  their  Redeemer  and  their 
God,  behold,  the  judgments  of  him  that  is 
just  shall  rest  upon  them.  (Ibid.,  1:10.) 

Let  us  remember  that  even  though 
God  had  a  foreknowledge  of  what 
"would  be"  under  certain  conditions,  it 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

is  not  his  will  nor  his  desire  that  vice, 
injustice,  and  crime,  disobedience  and 
intolerance  and  bloodshed  and  war  exist 
in  the  world.  His  purposes  are  to  pro- 
vide a  way  where  men  may  find  happi- 
ness and  joy,  peace,  now  and  forever. 
Nevertheless,  he  will  not  interfere  with 
the  agency  of  men!  But  fortunately, 
according  to  Mormon's  teaching:  ".  .  . 
the  Spirit  of  Christ  is  given  to  every 
man,  that  he  may  know  good  from 
evil;"  and  have  a  "perfect  knowledge," 
whether  it  is  of  God  or  of  the  devil. 
(See  Moroni  7:16.) 

Let  each  of  us  build  upon  the  sure 
foundation  recommended  by  Helaman 
in  the  days  of  the  Nephites: 

And  now,  my  sons,  remember,  remember 
that  it  is  upon  the  rock  of  our  Redeemer, 
who  is  Christ,  the  Son  of  God,  that  ye  must 
build  your  foundation;  that  when  the  devil 
shall  send  forth  his  mighty  winds,  yea,  his 
shafts  in  the  whirlwind,  yea,  when  all  his 
hail  and  his  mighty  storm  shall  beat  upon 
you,  it  shall  have  no  power  over  you  to 
drag  you  down  to  the  gulf  of  misery  and 
endless  wo,  because  of  the  rock  upon  which 
ye  are  built,  which  is  a  sure  foundation, 
a  foundation  whereon  if  men  build  they 
cannot  fall.    (Helaman  5:12.) 

May  we  always  choose  the  right.  May 
we  always  defend  the  right,  at  home 
and  throughout  the  land,  and  seek  for 
peace  and  serenity  and  tranquility  on 
the  foundation  for  peace  that  was  laid 
down  by  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  the  God 
of  this  land,  I  pray  humbly  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  EIRay 
L.  Christiansen,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve. 
Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  address  us. 
Elder  Ivins  will  be  followed  by  Bishop 
Thorpe  B.  Isaacson. 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  IVINS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay,  and  brethren  and 
sisters,  I  stand  before  you  this  after- 
noon a  very  blessed  man.  I  wish  to 
bear  testimony  to  the  mercies  of  our 
Heavenly  Father  and  the  blessings  that 


I  have  received  from  him.  When  next 
month  arrives,  I  will  have  lived  seventy- 
six  years  in  this  troubled  world  of  ours 
with  only  one  serious  case  of  sickness, 
hardly  ever  having  been  deprived  of  the 


ELDER  ANTOINE  R.  WINS 


65 


privilege  of  going  about  my  daily  duty. 
And  come  the  month  of  June,  I  will 
have  had  forty-five  years  of  companion- 
ship with  a  wonderful  wife  who  has 
walked  side  by  side  with  me  through 
the  vicissitudes  of  life. 

When  we  were  told  today  about  being 
careful  about  going  into  debt,  I  was 
reminded  of  the  way  my  wife  and  I 
started  out.  We  lived  for  a  long  while 
in  a  12  by  24,  with  no  door  between  the 
bedroom  and  the  dining  room,  and  we 
know  what  it  is  to  come  up  through 
that  road.  Through  it  all,  however,  we 
have  been  blessed  with  the  spirit  of 
unity  and  love  for  each  other.  I  have 
a  wife  whose  major  interest  is  the  joy 
and  happiness  of  other  people,  and  for 
this  I  am  extremely  thankful. 

When  the  month  of  June  comes 
around,  it  will  be  twenty-six  years  since 
I  read  in  the  newspaper  in  Honolulu 
that  I  was  to  be  one  of  your  servants 
as  one  of  the  General  Authorities  of  the 
Church.  It  came  as  a  shock.  It  came 
without  notice,  but  was  accepted  by  my 
wife  and  me  in  the  spirit  of  service, 
and  during  that  time — those  twenty-six 
years — we  have  tried  to  acquit  ourselves 
as  creditably  as  possible  of  the  task  of 
serving  the  people.  In  all  this,  we  have 
been  devoted  to  the  Church  and  have 
let  nothing,  so  far  as  we  could  tell, 
interfere  with  our  service.  My  expe- 
rience has  given  me  contact  with  many 
peoples  in  America,  in  Mexico,  where 
I  lived  twelve  years,  and  in  the  Hawaiian 
Islands,  where  I  spent  ten  years,  some 
of  my  friends  from  Hawaii  being  here 
today  to  attend  this  conference. 

I  grew  up  among  the  Indians  of  South- 
ern Utah,  and  when  I  married  my  wife, 
we  became  a  part  of  the  New  Zealand 
Mission  and  met  many  of  the  Maori 
people.  In  that  experience,  of  course, 
most  of  my  time  has  been  spent  for  the 
Church  and  the  members  of  the  Church 
generally  and  I  have  come  to  believe 
that  perhaps  the  most  important  thing 
for  a  member  of  the  Church  is  a  testi- 
mony to  the  truth  of  the  gospel. 

We  heard  last  night  a  very  interest- 
ing testimony  of  the  blessings  and  bene- 
fits that  come  from  accepting  the  gospel, 
blessings  which  were  brought  to  certain 
people  through  the  missionary  service  of 
this  Church,  and  you  who  know  me 
know  that  the  group  to  which  I  belong 


in  the  General  Authorities  is  devoted 
particularly  to  the  missionary  work  of 
the  Church. 

Testimony!  I  have  come  to  believe 
that  any  person  who  has  an  honest 
testimony  will  strive  to  the  utmost  of 
his  ability  to  live  true  to  the  teachings 
that  have  come  to  us  from  our  Heavenly 
Father  through  the  revelations  of  Jesus 
Christ,  given  to  the  leadership  of  this 
Church. 

Testimony!  How  do  we  get  it?  We 
get  it  through  faith.  You  who  were 
here  last  night  heard  that  the  testimony 
which  was  borne  to  us  came  as  a  result 
of  prayer.  Of  course,  there  was  instruc- 
tion. There  was  study;  but  our  brother 
told  us  that  he  went  down  on  his  knees 
in  fervent  prayer  and  arose  with  a 
conviction  in  his  heart  that  the  gospel 
is  true.  He  bore  testimony  to  its  won- 
derful blessings  which  had  come  to  him 
with  the  privileges  of  membership  in 
this  Church. 

Testimony!  That  is  the  great  thing 
we  should  strive  for,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters. We  get  it  through  faith  and 
prayer  and  service.  We  retain  it  through 
faith  and  prayer  and  service.  Christ 
told  Peter  that  he  had  founded  his 
Church  upon  revelation,  the  revealed 
testimony  that  he  was  the  Son  of  God. 
He  said  the  gates  of  hell  would  not 
prevail  against  it.  I  wish  we  were  able 
to  testify  that  the  gates  of  hell  can 
never  prevail  against  the  testimony  on 
the  part  of  an  individual,  and  I  believe 
that  is  true  as  long  as  the  testimony 
abides  in  such  strength  as  to  determine 
the  conduct  of  people.  But,  unfortu- 
nately, it  happens  with  many  that,  hav- 
ing once  had  a  testimony,  they  give  way 
to  the  weaknesses  of  the  flesh.  Their 
testimony  begins  to  dim,  and  in  time, 
to  disappear,  and  when  it  disappears, 
men  frequently  give  themselves  over  to 
the  powers  of  the  flesh. 

Now  we  should  strive,  brethren  and 
sisters,  to  retain  ever  in  our  hearts  that 
testimony,  and  to  do  it  we  must  serve. 
The  missionary  cause  is  served  in  many 
ways.  One  way  is  by  carrying  to  the 
people  the  message  of  the  restored  gos- 
pel, as  was  shown  in  our  meeting  last 
night.  Another  way  was  mentioned  by 
President  [J.  Reuben]  Clark  last  night 
in  our  meeting,  and  that  is  by  living 
the  gospel. 


66 

Saturday,  April  6 

So,  I  feel  that  the  best  way  we  can 
teach  the  gospel  is  first  to  live  it,  show- 
ing individually  and  collectively  the 
powers  there  are  in  the  observance  of 
the  teachings  of  our  Savior  and  in  the 
exercise  of  the  priesthood  which  God 
has  caused  to  be  restored.  I  believe 
honestly,  brethren  and  sisters,  that  any 
man  who  lives  worthy  of  the  Melchize- 
dek  Priesthood  has  absolute  control  over 
the  evil  and  sins  of  the  world  as  far 
as  he  himself  is  concerned.  He  may  not 
be  able  to  control  other  people,  but  if 
he  accepts  and  lives  worthy  of  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood,  he  should  have  ab- 
solute power  over  evil.  That  is  our  pur- 
pose, brethren  and  sisters.  If  we  could 
do  that,  if  we  could  live  that  way,  we 
would  set  before  nonmembers  and  in- 
active members  alike  an  example  of 
which  they  could  never  complain  and 
which  must  certainly  impel  them  seri- 
ously to  study  the  gospel. 

We  have  in  the  Church  as  our  re- 
sponsibility for  missionary  service,  a 
force  of  men  who  could  be  counted  in 
the  seventy  thousands,  men  who  were 
born  in  the  Church,  men  who  for  one 
reason  or  another  have  not  felt  inclined 
to  accept  the  responsibility  and  exercise 
the  privileges  of  membership  to  the  ex- 
tent of  receiving  the  priesthood,  or  at 
least  the  Melchizedek  Priesthood.  It  is 
one  of  the  largest  mission  fields  we  have 
in  the  Church,  brethren  and  sisters. 
There  is  an  effort  being  made  on  the 
part  of  the  leadership  of  the  Church  to 
reach  that  particular  group  of  people. 

Two  weeks  ago  last  night  Sister  Ivins 
and  I  sat  down  at  a  banquet  in  Mesa, 
Arizona,  where  fifty  men  with  their 
wives  had  taken  the  course  that  is  sug- 
gested in  this  particular  school  [for 
senior  members  of  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood] designed  to  reach  this  particular 
group  of  people.  They  were  a  happy 
group.  They  had  learned  through  that 
teaching  some  of  the  value,  some  of  the 
joy,  and  some  of  the  happiness  that 
comes  from  study  of  the  gospel  and  serv- 
ice  in  this  Church.     I   would    that  a 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

school  of  that  kind  could  be  established 
in  every  stake  in  the  Church  and  carried 
through  successfully,  because  I  believe, 
and  I  think  you  will  admit,  that  any 
man  who  takes  the  trouble  to  study 
seriously  the  revealed  word  of  God  for 
a  reasonable  period  of  time  cannot  but 
accept  the  truth  of  it,  and  then,  if  he 
can  get  the  testimony  of  which  I  speak, 
he  will  accept  its  benefits  and  blessings. 

Now  how  are  people  going  to  effect 
this?  The  other  night  I  listened  to  a 
song  which  was  written  in  Spanish  and 
English,  "Que  Sera,  Sera"  ("Whatever 
Will  Be,  Will  Be"),  and  there  is  an 
implication  in  that  song  that  this  mother, 
talking  to  her  daughter,  would  lead  her 
to  believe  that  the  daughter  herself 
could  have  no  effect  upon  the  future. 
But  that  is  a  false  implication.  Using 
the  same  reasoning,  you  would  say  these 
inactive  men  are  as  they  are  because 
they  are,  and  maybe  that  is  true.  But 
they  are  not  as  they  are  because  they 
had  to  be.  They  themselves,  had  they 
felt  inclined,  could  have  moved  them- 
selves out  of  this  condition  and  into  the 
full  exercise  of  the  privileges  of  the 
priesthood.  It  means  honest  living,  of 
course,  brethren  and  sisters,  but  it  is 
worth  the  effort. 

Testimony!  Can  you  help  one  to  gain 
a  testimony  that  will  impel  him  to  serv- 
ice? What  greater  thing  could  you  do? 
Are  you  going  to  sit  by  and  leave  these 
men  to  others,  or  are  you  going  to  use 
your  influence  with  your  neighbors,  with 
your  friends,  in  an  effort  to  carry  to 
them  this  testimony?  It  must  be  done 
in  friendship.  It  must  be  done  in  sim- 
plicity. It  must  be  done  in  faith,  and 
with  prayer,  and  God  help  us  to  do  it, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Antoine  R.  Ivins  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  has  just  concluded 
speaking.  Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson 
will  now  address  us, — a  member  of  the 
Presiding  Bishopric. 


67 


BISHOP  THORPE  B.  ISAACSON 

First  Counselor  in  the  Presiding  Bishopric 


President  McKay,  President  Richards, 
President  Clark,  my  dear  brothers 
and  sisters  and  friends,  I  think  this 
is  the  most  humbling  of  all  experiences, 
and  I  believe  it  would  be  for  you  if 
you  were  occupying  this  position.  I 
deeply  and  sincerely  pray  that  the  Lord 
will  sustain  me  the  few  minutes  that 
I  shall  speak  today.  I  will  be  most 
grateful  to  you  for  an  interest  in  your 
faith  and  prayers  and  for  your  patience 
and  your  kind  understanding. 

Conference  time  is  a  marvelous  time. 
People  all  over  the  world  who  are  lis- 
tening to  the  conference  on  the  radio, 
or  who  are  watching  the  conference  pro- 
ceedings on  television,  those  who  are 
in  attendance  and  those  who  are  read- 
ing of  the  conference,  as  well  as  those 
who  are  here  that  will  take  these  mes- 
sages back  to  their  respective  places  of 
labor  will  all  be  blessed  and  benefited 
from  this  conference  of  worship. 

In  trying  to  illustrate  conference  time, 
I  would  like  to  refer  to  a  statement  made 
the  other  day  in  a  local  newspaper  by 
Brother  Jack  M.  Reed,  who  is  the 
Tribune  Church  editor.  With  his  per- 
mission may  I  quote: 

"Conference"  is  sort  of  a  magic  word  that 
transforms  Salt  Lake  City  .  .  .  thousands  of 
persons  converging  upon  Temple  Square — 
and  affect  in  small  measure  or  large  the 
daily  lives  of  nearly  everyone  in  Utah's 
capital  city. 

Personally,  I  think  in  a  measure  that 
describes  the  great  spiritual  uplift  and 
the  importance  of  the  general  confer- 
ence of  God's  true  Church  on  the  earth. 

It  is  just  ten  years  ago  today  that  my 
first  assignment  came  to  speak  to  the 
general  conference  of  the  Church.  I 
would  be  a  very  ungrateful  person  if  I 
did  not  first  publicly  thank  the  Lord 
for  his  kindnesses  and  mercies  to  me. 
Time  will  not  permit  me  to  tell  you 
the  wonderful  blessings  that  have  come 
to  me  during  these  lovely  ten  years  of 
service.  However,  I  believe  I  have 
worked  harder  during  these  past  ten 
years  than  in  any  other  ten  years  of 
my  life,  but  likewise  this  work  has  given 
me  great  joy  and  happiness  for  which 


I  am  truly  grateful,  and  I  am  deeply 
indebted  to  the  Lord  and  to  the  Church. 

Likewise,  I  would  be  ungrateful  if 
I  did  not  publicly  thank  my  wife  and 
my  family  for  their  co-operation  and 
assistance.  They  have  helped  me  a 
great  deal,  and  I  know  they  have  prayed 
diligently  for  me  in  this  work.  They 
have  taken  my  responsibilities  and  as- 
sisted me  in  many  ways  with  my  per- 
sonal chores,  and  I  know  it  was  because 
they  wanted  my  Church  work  to  come 
first.  I  can  truly  and  humbly  say  that 
I  love  my  Church  work  more  than  any 
other  work  that  I  have  done  in  my  life. 
I  have  had  many  fascinating  positions, 
such  as  teaching,  coaching  athletics, 
salesmanship  work,  and  business  experi- 
ences, but  there  is  nothing  that  com- 
pares with  the  work  and  the  service  in 
the  Church.  Nothing  will  give  a  person 
the  joy  and  happiness  that  he  gets  from 
service  to  his  brethren  and  his  fellow 
men  in  Church  work. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  members  of 
the  wards  and  stakes  that  I  have  had 
the  privilege  of  visiting.  Your  wonder- 
ful loyalty  and  devotion  to  the  Church 
has  been  an  inspiration  to  me.  My 
faith  and  my  testimony  have  been 
strengthened  because  of  your  glorious 
example.  Your  devotion,  your  loyalty, 
your  love  for  the  Church,  and  your  will- 
ingness to  take  care  of  all  Church  assign- 
ments are  truly  a  great  tribute  to  you 
and  the  Lord  will  bless  you. 

Some  of  the  things  that  I  said  ten 
years  ago  when  I  first  spoke  in  the  gen- 
eral conference  of  the  Church,  among 
other  things  I  said  then,  I  would  like 
to  repeat  now — at  that  time  I  had  only 
been  associated  with  the  Brethren  of 
the  General  Authorities  for  about  three 
months — I  stated  then  that  I  had  learned 
to  love  the  General  Authorities  very 
much.  I  also  testified  to  you  then  that 
I  knew  these  Brethren  are  men  of  God; 
and  today  again,  I  want  to  re-emphasize 
to  you  and  testify  to  you  that  I  love 
these  men  very  much — every  one  of 
them,  and  I  know  truly  that  they  are 
men  of  God.  I  know  that  President 
David  O.  McKay  is  a  living  prophet 
of  Jesus  Christ  the  same  as  were  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


68 

Saturday,  April  6 

prophets  of  old,  and  with  him  President 
Richards  and  President  Clark,  together 
with  the  Quorum  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 
and  all  of  the  other  General  Authorities 
of  the  Church — I  know  they  are  Prophets 
and  servants  of  God  our  Eternal  Father. 
May  I  also  testify  to  you  that  I  believe 
they  are  divinely  called  of  the  Lord, 
and  I  hope  that  you  believe  that.  I 
would  like  also  to  testify  to  you  that 
I  know  they  constantly  seek  divine  guid- 
ance, and  I  also  testify  to  you  that  they 
receive  divine  guidance  from  our  Holy 
Father. 

I  trust  the  Brethren,  and  especially 
Apostle  Delbert  L.  Stapley,  will  forgive 
me  if  I  tell  you  of  the  kind  invitation 
from  the  First  Presidency  to  all  of  the 
General  Authorities  to  a  meeting  in  the 
temple  prior  to  the  commencement  of 
this  general  conference.  I  do  not  have 
the  time  nor  the  ability  to  describe  to 
you  the  spirit  of  that  meeting  in  the 
temple  on  Thursday  morning.  Brother 
Stapley  offered  the  prayer,  and  I  am 
certain  that  we  all  felt  that  his  prayer 
ascended  to  our  Father  in  heaven  and 
that  that  prayer  was  answered  in  our 
behalf.  Truly  that  sweet  spirit  which 
was  experienced  in  that  meeting  as 
Brother  Stapley  was  offering  that  prayer 
has  carried  over  until  now,  and  it  will 
carry  through  the  entire  conference. 

Today  I  intended  to  say  a  few  things, 
but  I  have  changed  my  mind  because 
of  the  lack  of  time.  However,  because 
of  my  sincere  interest  in  the  rehabilita- 
tion of  alcoholics,  I  would  like  to  pay  a 
tribute  to  those  who  are  trying  to  over- 
come this  habit  or  disease,  and  to 
overcome  the  cruel  monster  of  alcohol. 
I  would  like  to  say  a  word  of  encourage- 
ment to  11,000  alcoholics  in  the  state 
of  Utah  and  about  5,000,000  alcoholics 
in  the  United  States,  because  of  an  ex- 
perience that  I  had  with  one  of  them 
last  night  following  our  missionary 
meeting  held  in  the  Tabernacle.  I  was 
very  proud  of  this  man  who  has  tri- 
umphed and  who  has  conquered  that 
cruel  monster  alcohol.  Yes,  I  want  to 
pay  tribute  to  him  to  whom  I  talked 
last  night  for  his  triumph.  I  want  to 
testify  to  the  others  who  desire  a  way 
to  overcome  that  habit  and  that  disease 
that,  as  this  wonderful  man  who  had 
conquered  and  had  triumphed  and  who 
had  made  a  wonderful  comeback  assured 


Second  Day 

me,  the  only  way  for  him  or  anyone 
else  to  conquer  alcohol  is  to  seek  the 
help  of  God. 

May  I  quote  from  Jacob,  chapter  4, 
verse  10,  from  the  Book  of  Mormon.  It 
is  the  MIA  theme: 

Wherefore,  brethren,  seek  not  to  counsel 
the  Lord,  but  to  take  counsel  from  his  hand. 
For  behold,  ye  yourselves  know  that  he 
counseleth  in  wisdom,  and  in  justice  and 
in  great  mercy,  over  all  his  works. 

That  wonderful  man  who  has  had  a 
struggle,  as  all  of  the  alcoholics  have, 
to  defeat  or  conquer  that  habit  testi- 
fied strongly  last  night  that  there  is  only 
one  way  for  anyone  to  overcome  that 
treacherous  habit  and  disease  and  that 
is  by  seeking  the  counsel  of  God  their 
Father.  I  commend  that  wonderful 
organization  (Alcoholics  Anonymous) 
and  the  members  who  believe  in  God, 
for  they  will  find  great  strength  when 
all  else  seems  to  fail. 

Yes,  today  we  are  faced  with  confu- 
sions and  uncertainties  and  threats.  We 
are  sometimes  tempted  to  agree  with 
those  who  say  the  reason  for  our  great 
difference  today  is  that  our  problems 
are  so  different  from  those  faced  by 
other  generations.  But  this  is  not  so; 
the  only  difference  is  our  forefathers 
relied  on  God  our  Eternal  Father  for 
everything.  Today  there  are  too  many 
of  us  that  have  forgotten  God.  We  feel 
self-sufficient.  Even  as  strong  as  we 
think  we  are,  it  is  always  dangerous  to 
feel  or  think  that  we  do  not  need  to 
rely  on  a  Divine  Power,  and  I  would 
like  to  refer  to  that  Divine  Power  as 
the  Power  of  God  our  Eternal  Father. 

In  closing,  may  I  give  you  one  quick 
illustration  regarding  this  passage: 

.  .  .  seek  not  to  counsel  the  Lord,  but  to 
take  counsel  from  his  hand.  For  behold,  ye 
yourselves  know  that  he  counseleth  in  wis- 
dom, and  in  justice,  and  in  great  mercy 
over  all  his  works. 

Here  is  my  story: 

A  few  weeks  ago  a  business  associate 
of  mine  asked  me  to  go  with  him  to 
make  the  acquaintance  of  and  visit  and 
talk  with  eight  wonderful  young  Latter- 
day  Saint  practising  physicians.  He 
wanted  me  to  go  to  see  these  doctors  and 
meet  them,  wishing  that  I  would  agree 
to   write    a    letter   recommending   con- 


ELDER  ]OHN  LONGDEN 


69 


sideration  for  these  doctors  so  they  could 
successfully  get  a  loan  to  build  a  medi- 
cal clinic.     I  agreed  to  go  with  him. 

As  we  discussed  the  time  for  the  ap- 
pointment with  these  doctors,  my  friend 
informed  me  that  it  could  either  be  in 
the  morning  between  6:30  and  7  o'clock 
or  after  9  o'clock  at  night.  I  then  de- 
cided that  it  would  be  better  for  me 
to  meet  them  in  the  morning  between 
6:30  and  7  o'clock.  We  left  Salt  Lake 
City  very  early.  It  was  dark  because  it 
was  in  the  winter  months.  We  drove  to 
their  offices  some  little  way  out  of  Salt 
Lake  City,  arriving  between  6:30  and 
7  a.m. 

Soon  their  individual  cars  appeared 
at  the  office.  I  was  then  made  ac- 
quainted with  these  wonderful,  fine  doc- 
tors, and  we  were  invited  into  their 
office.  After  all  had  assembled,  and  we 
were  comfortably  seated,  the  oldest  of 
these  eight  doctors — and  he  himself  was 
a  comparatively  young  man — walked 
over  and  shut  the  door.  Then  he  said, 
"Would  you  mind  joining  us  in  morning 
prayer  before  we  discuss  our  business 
problems  with  you?"  Then  I  thought, 
".  .  .  seek  not  to  counsel  the  Lord  but 
to  take  counsel.  ..."  I  was  somewhat 
astounded  at  this  procedure,  but  I  con- 
fess I  was  humbly  grateful  and  proud 
of  these  young  doctors.  The  presiding 
doctor  called  on  one  of  the  other  doctors 
to  offer  the  morning  prayer,  and  he 
offered  a  very  beautiful,  appropriate  pe- 
tition to  the  Lord  and  asked  for  his 
guidance. 

To  my  recollection,  I  have  never  had 
that  experience  with  professional  or 
businessmen  before.  I  asked  the  doctors 
before  I  left,  "Is  this  your  common  prac- 
tice?" "Oh,  yes,  every  morning,  six  days 
a  week,  we  meet  here  between  6:30  and 
7,  where  we  lock  our  door,  and  before 
starting  our  duties  of  the  day,  call  on 
God  our  Eternal  Father  for  his  divine 


guidance.  If  for  any  reason  one  of  the 
doctors  has  important  or  urgent  surgery 
or  an  urgent  patient  call,  we  go  ahead 
without  him,  and  each  takes  his  turn 
offering  the  morning  prayer."  Of  course 
these  doctors  will  be  successful!  I 
thought  they  were  wonderful. 

How  many  teachers,  how  many  bank- 
ers, how  many  business  or  professional 
men,  how  many  of  us  follow  that  kind 
of  procedure  every  morning?  These 
doctors  are  seeking  the  divine  guidance 
of  God  their  Eternal  Father,  and  mainly 
they  are  men  skilled  in  science,  trained 
in  their  profession,  but  not  sufficiently 
so  that  they  can  rely  upon  their  own 
training  and  their  own  natural  abili- 
ties. 

God  grant  that  each  of  us  may  seek 
counsel,  for  we  ourselves  know  that  the 
Lord  "counseleth  in  wisdom,  and  in  jus- 
tice, and  in  great  mercy,"  I  humbly  pray 
in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Thorpe  B.  Isaacson  of  the  Pre- 
siding Bishopric  of  the  Church  has  just 
concluded  speaking.  The  Chorus  from 
the  Institute  of  Religion  at  the  Uni- 
versity of  Utah  and  the  Congregation 
will  now  join  in  singing,  "Do  What  Is 
Right."  Richard  P.  Condie,  Assistant 
Conductor  of  the  Salt  Lake  Tabernacle 
Choir,  will  lead  us.  Elder  John  Long- 
den  will  follow  the  singing. 

The  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus  and 
the  congregation  sang  the  hymn,  "Do 
What  Is  Right." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  will  now  hear  from  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  He 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Eldred  G. 
Smith. 


ELDER  JOHN  LONGDEN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


President  McKay  this  morning  gave 
recognition  to  the  servicemen  who 
had  traveled  many  miles  to  be  here, 
some  coming  from  Texas  and  Okla- 
homa.    I  trust  I  shall  be  in  order  if  I 


ask  those  servicemen  to  stand  at  the 
present  moment,  please,  wherever  you 
are.  [About  seventy-five  to  one  hundred 
stood.]  Thank  you  very  much.  That  is 
a  glorious  sight,  and  I  commend  you  for 


70 

Saturday,  April  6 

your  evidence  of  faith  in  having  a  de- 
sire to  mingle  here  in  this  great  confer- 
ence where  you  will  receive  a  spiritual 
uplift,  where  the  word  of  the  Lord  goes 
forth  in  truth  and  in  power. 

The  servicemen  of  this  Church  are  in 
a  position  to  do  great  missionary  work 
with  their  fellow  men  by  just  living 
the  gospel,  maintaining  the  standards 
and  ideals  of  the  Master. 

Customs  may  change,  but  principles 
do  not.  On  one  occasion  we  are  told 
that  the  Master 

.  .  .  went  up  into  the  temple,  and  taught. 

And  the  Jews  marveled,  saying,  How 
knoweth  this  man  letters,  having  never 
learned? 

Jesus  answered  them,  and  said,  My  doc- 
trine is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 

If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God, 
or  whether  I  speak  of  myself.  (John  7:14- 
17.) 

The  principles  the  Master  taught  in 
the  temple  almost  two  thousand  years 
ago  are  just  as  true  today  and  important 
to  the  welfare  of  our  lives  as  they  were 
to  the  people  whom  he  taught.  There 
is  a  promise  that  if  any  man  will  do 
the  will  of  the  Father  he  shall  know  of 
the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of  God.  This 
is  evidence  to  me  that  a  man  may  re- 
ceive a  positive  assurance  of  truth  if  he 
will  but  humble  himself  before  the 
Lord  and  do  the  will  of  the  Father. 

Yes,  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  posi- 
tive. Here  in  the  sessions  so  far,  we  have 
heard  everyone  who  has  spoken  bear 
witness  and  testimony  regarding  the 
truth  which  they  have  spoken.  It  is  a 
marvelous  thing  to  have  a  testimony  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ.  It  was  pos- 
sible to  receive  a  positive  assurance,  or 
testimony,  in  the  days  of  the  Master;  so 
it  is  possible  today,  for  this  is  an  eternal 
truth.  Many  times  we  hear  the  state- 
ment: "The  gospel  is  true;  I  know  the 
gospel  is  true."  I  have  a  witness  and 
testify  to  you  also  that  I  know  this  thing 
called  Mormonism  is  true,  for  it  em- 
bodies the  full  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ. 
When  individuals  have  that  testimony, 
though  there  may  be  periods  of  confu- 
sion— periods  of  deliberation — they  are 
always  able  to  come  through,  provided 
the  roots  of  their  testimony  are  deep 
within  their  hearts. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 


The  Psalmist  declared, 

Blessed  are  they  that  keep  his  testimonies, 
and  that  seek  him  with  the  whole  heart. 
(Psalm   119:2.) 

I  have  a  witness  that  this  gospel  must 
go  to  all  people  and  that  all  people 
must  come  to  a  knowledge  of  the  truths 
which  are  taught  from  this  pulpit  before 
they  can  bend  the  knee  and  bow  the 
head  and  confess  that  Jesus  is  the 
Christ. 

Recently  I  saw  the  testimony  of  a 
young  mother  manifest  as  she  had  her 
three  young  sons  around  her.  She  had 
just  become  a  widow,  her  husband  hav- 
ing suffered  a  dreadful  disease  for  three 
years.  Only  the  light  and  knowledge  of 
the  gospel  had  given  her  hope  and 
courage.  Yes,  the  roots  of  her  testi- 
mony were  deep. 

Through  the  restoration  of  the  Church 
and  kingdom  of  God,  we  understand  our 
responsibility  to  take  the  gospel  to  all 
the  world,  working  with  those  who  are 
nonmembers  of  the  true  Church.  Also 
we  are  to  labor  patiently  with  members 
who  have  become  somewhat  delinquent 
and  dilatory  to  their  duties,  their  testi- 
monies having  been  weakened  through 
inactivity  or  other  reasons.  A  keen  in- 
terest is  manifest  in  this  reactivation 
program  and  much  good  is  being  accom- 
plished. 

Some  months  ago  it  was  my  privilege 
to  attend  what  we  term  a  men  and 
wives  meeting.  On  the  stand  was  a 
husband  who  had  been  reactivated.  His 
wife  was  with  him.  Their  seven  chil- 
dren sat  with  them.  The  wife  was  with 
child.  They  had  a  son  in  Korea,  and 
they  had  lost  a  little  girl  some  six  years 
before.  The  wife  stood  in  the  pulpit 
that  morning  expressing  sweet,  humble 
gratitude  that  there  was  now  spirituality 
in  their  home  and  happiness  because 
the  priesthood  was  being  honored. 
Truly,  happiness  was  reflected  in  the 
faces  of  those  lovely  children  who  sat 
with  them.  Then  the  husband  related 
briefly  some  of  his  experiences.  He  told 
how  he  had  been  born  in  a  little  town 
just  north  of  Logan,  Utah,  where  I 
should  judge  ninety-nine  percent  are 
members  of  the  Church.  His  mother 
passed  away  when  he  was  six  years  of 
age.  The  children  had  been  farmed 
out  to  various  relatives,  and  this  boy 
was  with  an  aunt  and  uncle  until  he  was 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


71 


thirteen  years  of  age.  At  twelve  he  had 
been  ordained  a  deacon  because  he  had 
been  obedient  to  the  teaching  and  train- 
ing received  through  attending  Primary 
and  Sunday  School  and  all  the  services 
he  could  attend.  When  he  became 
thirteen,  his  father  decided  to  move  into 
the  backwoods  of  Wyoming,  where  they 
were  some  distance  from  a  Church. 
There  was  no  transportation,  so  he 
didn't  attend  his  meetings.  He  got  out 
of  the  habit  of  going  to  Church,  he 
said,  and  took  up  other  habits.  Later, 
he  married  a  lovely  woman  who  had 
faith,  who  had  a  precious  spark  in  her 
heart  and  her  soul.  She  continued  to 
yearn  for  the  day  when  he  would  see 
the  light  and  would  know  this  gospel 
as  the  Master  had  taught  it. 

He  said,  "I  have  done  many  things 
that  I  am  ashamed  of.  I  smoked,  I 
drank — and  stronger  than  beer  on  occa- 
sion. I  am  not  proud  of  it.  I  have  not 
been  the  father  that  I  should  have 
been  to  these  children.  There  has  not 
been  true  happiness  in  our  home;  I  have 
not  been  the  husband  that  I  should  have 
been  to  my  good  wife;  but  I  stand  here 
today  to  testify  to  you  that  I  would  not 
return  to  that  old  life  for  all  the  gold 
in  Fort  Knox.  I  have  not  missed  a 
Sacrament  meeting  from  that  time  to 
this,  which  is  five  years,  except  when 
I  have  been  in  Salt  Lake  City  attending 
general  conference." 

How  grateful  I  am  that  the  gospel 
can  work  in  the  lives  of  individuals 
when  they  have  the  desire,  when  they 
understand  the  meaning  of  being  doers 


of  the  word,  referred  to  in  President 
David  O.  McKay's  message  at  the  open- 
ing of  this  conference. 

May  we  all,  I  pray,  have  the  desire 
to  demonstrate  by  our  works  that  we 
truly  are  followers  of  the  Master.  May 
our  testimonies  be  cultivated  and  fed 
by  the  spirit  of  truth  to  remain  strong, 
regardless  of  trials  or  obstacles,  that  we 
may  be  able  to  rise  above  them,  even 
as  John  on  the  Isle  of  Patmos,  who 
recognized  that  he  was  there  because 
of  the  word  of  God  and  the  testimony 
of  Jesus  Christ: 

I  John,  who  also  am  your  brother,  and 
companion  in  tribulation,  and  in  the  king- 
dom and  patience  of  Jesus  Christ,  was  in 
the  isle  that  is  called  Patmos,  for  the  word 
of  God,  and  for  the  testimony  of  Jesus 
Christ.    (Rev.  1:9.) 

Yes,  customs  may  change,  but  prin- 
ciples do  not;  for  assurance,  knowledge, 
and  testimony  are  eternal  principles  of 
the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  today  as  they 
were  yesterday;  I  so  testify  to  you  in 
all  sobriety.  May  God  bless  us  to  live 
in  accordance  with  his  glorious  eternal 
truths  I  humbly  pray  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ,  our  Savior.     Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  John 
Longden,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve.  Elder 
Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to  the 
Church,  will  now  address  us,  and  he 
will  be  followed  by  Elder  Stapley  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve. 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 

Patriarch  to  the  Church 


Ias  the  others  who  have  preceded 
me,  seek  an  interest  in  your  faith 
and  prayers  while  I  take  this  time. 

I  have  been  thankful  for  this  chorus, 
for  the  music  that  they  have  rendered 
to  us.  I  am  more  thankful  for  that 
wonderful  hosannah  anthem  they  sang 
at  the  close  of  this  morning's  session.  It 
was  a  real  thrill,  and  coming  on  this 
day  it  has  another  and  vital  importance. 
Today  is  the  eightieth  anniversary  of 
the  dedication  of  the  St.  George  Temple. 


Those   who    have   been    reading    their 
Improvement  Era  would  know  that. 

Many  people  wonder  about  the  differ- 
ence in  the  many  buildings  that  we 
have  in  the  Church.  I  think  we  have 
more  variety  of  buildings  than  anyone 
else.  We  have  the  temple,  which  is 
different  from  any  other  building  in  the 
world,  and  people  outside  the  Church, 
of  course,  have  to  be  instructed  in  the 
difference,  and  they  wonder  why  until 
they  are  taught  what  is  different  about 
our  temples. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


72 

Saturday,  April  6 

The  word  temple  comes  from  the 
Latin  templum — which  was  the  equiva- 
lent of  the  Hebrew  "beth  Elohim,"  and 
signified  the  abode  of  Deity;  hence,  as 
associated  with  divine  worship,  it  meant 
literally  the  "house  of  the  Lord." 

Temples  have  never  been  regarded  as 
places  of  ordinary  public  assembly  or 
public  houses  of  worship,  but  as  sacred 
enclosures  consecrated  to  the  most 
solemn  ceremonials  of  religion.  Whether 
a  house  of  the  Lord  be  the  gift  of  a 
man  or  of  a  nation,  the  best,  if  offered 
willingly  and  with  pure  intent,  is  al- 
ways excellent  in  the  sight  of  God,  how- 
ever poor  by  other  comparison  that  best 
may  be. 

There  are  always  materials  and  means 
available  to  build  temples  whenever 
and  wherever  there  are  enough  Saints 
worthy  to  receive  the  blessings  to  be 
had  therein.  The  best  way  to  build 
temples  is  to  do  missionary  work  and 
bring  souls  unto  him,  and  the  temples 
will  then  be  built. 

As  the  children  of  Israel  wandered  in 
the  wilderness,  the  Lord  requested  a 
house  of  the  Lord,  or  a  tabernacle,  to 
be  built.  To  the  call  for  material  where- 
with to  build  the  tabernacle  there  was 
such  willing  and  liberal  response  that 
the  need  was  more  than  met.  It  is  re- 
corded: 

For  the  stuff  they  had  was  sufficient  for 
all  the  work  to  make  it,  and  too  much. 
(Ex.  36:7.) 

After  Israel  had  become  established 
in  the  land  of  promise,  after  four  decades 
of  wandering  in  the  wilderness,  the 
tabernacle  with  its  sacred  contents  found 
a  resting  place  in  Shiloh;  and  thither 
came  the  tribes  to  learn  the  will  and 
word  of  God.  Afterward  it  was  re- 
moved to  Gibeon,  and  yet  later  to  the 
City  of  David,  or  Zion. 

David,  the  second  king  of  Israel,  de- 
sired and  planned  to  build  a  house  unto 
the  Lord.  But  the  Lord  made  it  plain 
that  to  be  acceptable  to  him,  it  was 
not  enough  that  the  gift  alone  be  ap- 
propriate, but  that  the  giver  must 
also  be  worthy.  Nevertheless  David  was 
permitted  to  gather  materials  for  the 
house  of  the  Lord,  which  edifice  not  he, 
but  Solomon,  his  son,  built. 

Solomon  the  king,  the  man  of  wisdom, 
the  master-builder,  was   led  astray  by 


Second  Day 

the  wiles  of  idolatrous  women,  and  his 
wayward  ways  fostered  iniquity  in 
Israel.  The  nation  was  no  longer  a 
unit;  there  were  factions  and  sects,  par- 
ties and  creeds,  some  worshiping  on  the 
hilltops,  others  under  green  trees,  each 
party  claiming  excellence  for  its  own 
particular  shrine.  The  temple  soon  lost 
its  sanctity. 

Are  we,  in  this  generation,  immune 
to  the  same  disaster?  How  often  have  I 
heard  people  say  that  they  prefer  to 
commune  with  their  Maker  in  the  can- 
yons, or  elsewhere,  instead  of  attending 
their  Sacrament  meetings.  They  prefer 
the  trees  and  the  mountains  to  their 
church.  As  President  Smith  has  told  us 
today,  many  people  are  losing  the  right 
attitude  toward  keeping  the  Sabbath 
day  holy.  As  a  result  they  lose  the  de- 
sire and  the  right  to  go  to  the  temple. 
Some  intend  to  go  later,  when  it  is  more 
convenient.  These  people  lose  the  bless- 
ings of  eternity,  and  to  them  the  temple 
loses  its  sanctity. 

Solomon's  temple  was  finally  de- 
stroyed. The  temple  of  Zerubbabel  was 
erected  by  the  Jews  515  years  before 
Christ,  again  using  the  best  the  people 
could  give.  Sixteen  years  B.C.  Herod 
I,  king  of  Judea,  reconstructed  the  run- 
down temple  of  Zerubbabel,  which  was 
later  partially  destroyed  at  the  time  of 
the  crucifixion  of  Christ.  In  70  A.D.  it 
was  utterly  destroyed  by  fire  when  the 
Jews  became  the  captives  of  the  Romans 
under  the  rule  of  Titus.  The  temple 
of  Herod  was  the  last  temple  or  house 
of  the  Lord  on  the  Eastern  Hemisphere. 
Since  then,  many  church  buildings  have 
been  built,  but  no  offer  of  a  sanctuary 
was  made  unto  the  Lord;  indeed  it  ap- 
pears that  no  need  of  such  was  recog- 
nized. The  apostate  church  declared 
that  direct  communication  from  God 
had  ceased,  and  in  place  of  divine  ad- 
ministration, a  self-constituted  govern- 
ment claimed  supreme  power. 

James  Cardinal  Gibbons,  in  explain- 
ing the  infallibility  of  the  pope  in  Faith 
of  Our  Fathers,  says: 

1st.  The  infallibility  of  the  Popes  does 
not  signify  that  they  are  inspired.  The 
Apostles  were  endowed  with  the  gift  of 
inspiration,  and  we  accept  their  writings 
as   the   revealed   word   of  God. 

No  Catholic,  on  the  contrary,  claims  that 


ELDER  ELDRED  G.  SMITH 


73 


the    Pope    is    inspired,    or    endowed    with 
divine  revelation  properly  so  called. 

A  more  complete  denial  of  the  power 
of  God  could  not  be  made. 

Today  we  have  the  sacred  temples 
again,  not  one,  but  many,  today  being 
the  eightieth  anniversary  of  the  dedica- 
tion of  the  first  temple  to  be  completed 
among  the  mountains  of  the  west — the 
temple  in  St.  George.  And  these  tem- 
ples stand  as  evidence  and  a  witness 
that  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  is  again 
in  the  earth,  restored  by  revelation  to 
authorized  servants  of  God. 

Anciently,  to  gain  salvation  had  two 
requirements:  first,  to  live  a  righteous 
life,  keeping  the  commandments  of 
God;  second,  to  accept  and  participate 
in  the  ordinances  of  the  gospel,  admin- 
istered by  authorized  servants  of  God. 

These  requirements  have  never 
changed.  Today  we  believe  that  man 
may  be  saved  by  obedience  to  the  laws 
and  ordinances  of  the  gospel.  We  be- 
lieve that  man  must  be  called  of  God 
to  administer  in  the  ordinances  thereof. 

Jesus  said: 

Verily,  verily,  I  say  unto  thee,  Except  a 
man  be  born  of  water  and  of  the  Spirit, 
he  cannot  enter  into  the  kingdom  of  God. 
(John  3:5.) 

Baptism,  then,  is  a  requirement  for 
all,  both  the  living  and  the  dead,  for 
entrance  into  the  kingdom  of  God,  ex- 
cept those  who  died  before  the  age  of 
eight.  How  then  can  the  dead  be 
baptized?  Many  who  are  dead  lived  at 
a  time  when  the  gospel  was  not  on  the 
earth.  Would  it  be  just  to  deny  them 
the  kingdom  of  God?  Certainly  not. 
The  Lord  has  provided  that  the  living 
may  be  baptized  by  proxy  for  the  dead. 
A  man  may  be  baptized  by  proxy  for 
a  man  who  has  died. 

Evidence  that  such  vicarious  work  was 
performed  in  the  early  Christian  Church 
is  found  in  the  words  of  Paul  to  the 
Corinthians: 

Else  what  shall  they  do  which  are  bap- 
tized for  the  dead,  if  the  dead  rise  not  at 
all?  why  are  they  then  baptized  for  the 
dead?   (I  Cor.  15:29.) 

Peter  tells  us: 

For  this  cause  was  the  gospel  preached 
also  to  them  that  are  dead,  that  they  might 


be  judged  according  to  men  in  the  flesh, 
but  live  according  to  God  in  the  spirit. 
(I  Peter  4:6.) 

This  scripture  is  evidence  that  those 
who  have  died  will  have  the  opportunity 
to  hear  the  gospel  and  accept  of  the 
ordinances  performed  by  proxy  for 
them. 

The  ordinance  of  baptism  for  the  liv- 
ing may  be  performed  wherever  there 
is  sufficient  water,  but  when  being  done 
for  the  dead,  this  ordinance  is  so  sacred 
the  Lord  has  required  that  it  be  done 
only  within  his  holy  house,  the  temple. 

The  Lord  has  declared  that  baptism 
is  necessary  for  entrance  into  the  king- 
dom of  God.  He  has  also  said,  "In  my 
Father's  house  are  many  mansions:" 
(John  14:2.)  Therefore,  other  ordi- 
nances are  necessary  for  advancement 
within  his  kingdom.  One  such  ordi- 
nance is  that  of  marriage. 

In  the  sight  of  the  Lord,  the  marriage 
covenant  is  so  sacred  that  he  has  re- 
quired that  it  be  solemnized  in  his  tem- 
ple for  time  and  all  eternity.  Brother 
McConkie  yesterday  gave  us  a  very  fine 
talk  on  the  principles  of  that  ordinance 
of  the  gospel,  which  I  recommend  to  all 
of  you  to  study  again.  Love  is  eternal, 
even  as  God  himself  is  eternal.  And 
President  McKay  told  us  last  evening 
of  the  eternity  of  love,  and  I  am  sure 
that  I  will  go  on  loving  my  wife  and 
our  children  after  death,  as  well  as 
here.  Your  love  for  your  wife  and 
family  will  also  continue.  It  would  not 
be  heaven  if  it  were  otherwise. 

When  the  Savior  was  upon  the  earth, 
he  told  his  apostles: 

And  I  will  give  unto  thee  the  keys  of  the 
kingdom  of  heaven:  and  whatsoever  thou 
shalt  bind  on  earth  shall  be  bound  in 
heaven:  and  whatsoever  thou  shalt  loose  on 
earth  shall  be  loosed  in  heaven.  (Matt. 
16:19.) 

That  same  authority  to  bind  on  earth 
that  it  may  be  bound  in  heaven,  is  the 
priesthood  of  God  which  is  now  upon 
the  earth  again,  that  husband  and  wife 
may  be  sealed  together  for  time  and  all 
eternity;  that  we  may  have  our  loved 
ones  in  the  next  world  the  same  as  here. 
That  makes  a  real  heaven. 

This  ordinance,  vital  for  the  living, 


74 

Saturday,  April  6 

is  also  just  as  vital  for  all  God's  chil- 
dren, including  those  who  died  without 
these  glorious  opportunities.  There- 
fore, the  ordinance  of  marriage  and 
sealing  children  to  parents  must  also 
be  done  vicariously  for  the  dead,  and 
also  in  the  temple.  The  great  gene- 
alogical work  of  the  Church  is  of  vital 
importance. 

A  temple  then,  has  two  main  pur- 
poses: It  is  a  holy  edifice  in  which  the 
most  sacred  ordinances  of  the  gospel 
may  be  performed  for  the  living  and  for 
the  dead. 

A  great  responsibility  rests  upon  the 
living  in  this  day:  first,  to  prepare  them- 
selves by  so  living  that  they  may  be 
found  worthy  to  receive  these  saving 
blessings  for  themselves;  second,  that 
they  may  also  be  worthy  of  doing  the 
vicarious  work  for  their  kindred  dead. 
Without  the  living,  the  dead  have  no 
hope,  and  the  earth  would  be  cursed 
at  his  coming. 

Too  many  who  claim  to  be  Latter-day 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Saints  do  not  avail  themselves  of  these 
eternal  blessings.  I  do  not  think  the 
Lord  will  accept  their  flimsy  excuses. 
Brother  Lee  told  us  yesterday  how  we 
should  be  concerned  about  this  situation 
in  the  Church. 

The  steady  growth  of  the  Church 
today  is  increasing  the  demands  upon 
the  temples.  Additional  temples  are 
being  built,  and  many  more  will  follow. 
They  stand  today  as  a  witness  to  the 
world,  testifying  that  the  heavens  have 
been  opened  and  the  gospel  of  Jesus 
Christ  is  again  restored  to  the  earth, 
with  the  power  and  authority  to  act  in 
his  name.  This  I  testify  to  you  in  the 
name  of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Eldred  G.  Smith,  Patriarch  to 
the  Church,  has  just  concluded  speak- 
ing. Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  will  be  our  con- 
cluding speaker. 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


My  beloved  brothers  and  sisters,  I  am 
indeed  grateful  for  the  messages 
of  this  conference,  starting  with 
the  great  message  of  our  beloved  Presi- 
dent yesterday  morning.  Several  have 
established  the  springboard  that  I 
should  like  to  start  from  in  what  I 
have  to  say  this  afternoon. 

It  is  gratifying  to  witness  the  leaven 
of  the  gospel  at  work,  infused  and  in- 
vigorated by  faithful  and  devoted 
Church  leadership,  which  is  awakening 
faith,  encouraging  renewed  activity,  and 
promoting  an  upsurge  of  spirituality 
among  members  whose  lives  heretofore 
have  not  responded  fully  to  the  teach- 
ings and  ordinances  of  the  everlasting 
gospel  covenant,  restored  in  this  dis- 
pensation of  God's  providence  as  a  light 
to  the  world  and  as  a  standard  for  his 
people.  The  results  are  so  pronounced, 
as  evidenced  by  activity  reports,  that 
they  can  be  measured  and  totaled.  It 
all  adds  up  to  a  satisfying  accomplish- 
ment which  has  brought  joy,  happiness, 
peace,  and  contentment  to  many  fami- 
lies.    The  wisdom  of  the  present  pro- 


gram to  reach  out  and  touch  the  lives 
of  all  Church  members  with  the  gospel 
of  salvation  cannot  be  gainsaid  because 
the  benefits  thus  far  have  been  most 
fruitful  and  stimulating.  Many  have 
been  motivated  to  give  up  bad  habits, 
also  indifferent  attitudes,  and  in  so  do- 
ing have  prepared,  qualified,  and  made 
themselves  worthy  for  the  choice  privi- 
leges and  sacred  blessings  of  the  Church, 
the  priesthood,  and  the  temples  of  God. 
Those  engaged  in  this  worth-while  serv- 
ice also  have  been  blessed  and  fully 
recompensed.  The  Apostle  James  gave 
this  admonition  and  promise: 

Brethren,  if  any  of  you  do  err  from  the 
truth,  and  one  convert  him; 

Let  him  know,  that  he  which  converteth 
the  sinner  from  the  error  of  his  way,  shall 
save  a  soul  from  death,  and  shall  hide  a 
multitude  of  sins.  (James  5:19-20.) 

If  I  understand  the  plan  of  exaltation 
correctly,  all  eternal  blessings  are  ob- 
tained by  and  through  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood of  God.  They  cannot  be  obtained 
in   any  other  way.     That  being  true, 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


75 


then,  the  Holy  Priesthood,  which  is 
God's  authority  and  sealing  power,  is 
not  only  of  great  importance  to  the  man 
who  possesses  it,  but  also  to  his  wife 
and  children,  for  they  cannot  enjoy  in 
full  measure  the  blessings,  opportuni- 
ties, and  privileges  of  the  gospel  unless 
the  husband  and  father  worthily  honors 
and  faithfully  and  righteously  func- 
tions in  his  sacred  priesthood  calling. 
The  husband  and  wife  relationship  was 
planned  of  God  to  be  an  eternal  part- 
nership. The  family  that  is  united  in 
faithfulness  and  sealed  together  by  the 
binding  power  of  the  Holy  Priesthood 
can  be  assured  the  great  privilege  of 
sharing  eternal  glory  together  in  perfect 
companionship.  No  true  parent  would 
want  to  deny  loved  ones  opportunities 
for  blessings  both  here  in  mortality  and 
eternally.  Our  families  and  the  desire 
for  eternal  association  with  them  as  a 
family  unit  in  celestial  glory  are  worth 
all  the  sacrifice  we  are  required  to  make 
to  secure  such  blessings.  We  cannot 
afford  indifference  because  life  here- 
after is  too  important.  The  joy  and 
happiness  of  all  our  loved  ones  depends 
upon  our  actions  and  spiritual  activities. 
No  man  can  be  saved  and  exalted  in 
the  kingdom  of  God  without  the  woman, 
and  no  woman  can  reach  perfection 
and  exaltation  in  the  kingdom  of  God 
alone.  There  is  no  union  for  time  and 
eternity  that  can  be  perfected  outside 
the  law  of  God,  and  the  order  of  his 
house.  An  individual  may  attain  a  de- 
gree of  salvation  alone,  but  when  they 
are  exalted  they  will  be  exalted  accord- 
ing to  the  law  of  the  celestial  kingdom. 
The  Apostle  Peter  exhorted  the  hus- 
bands to, 

.  .  .  dwell  with  them  according  to  knowl- 
edge, giving  honour  unto  the  wife,  as  unto 
the  weaker  vessel,  and  as  being  heirs  to- 
gether of  the  grace  of  life;  that  youi  prayers 
be  not  hindered.    (I  Peter  3:7.) 

Having  perfect  knowledge  through  an- 
cient and  modern  revelation  concerning 
the  eternity  of  the  marriage  relation- 
ship, we  can  understand  how  husband 
and  wife  are  heirs  together  of  the  grace 
of  life.  We  also  know  that  individually 
and  separately  they  cannot  attain  to 
the  highest  glory  in  the  celestial  king- 
dom. No  man  holding  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood can  cast  it  aside  and  then  wear  it 
as  desired  and  expect  to  have  his  be- 


stowed blessings  ratified  and  sealed  by 
the  Holy  Spirit  of  Promise.  That  heav- 
enly sealing  power  to  all  covenants, 
vows,  and  performances  is  gained  by 
the  righteousness  of  individuals.  The 
ordinances,  endowments,  and  blessings 
received  are  otherwise  not  efficacious  in 
the  eternal  celestial  mansions  of  God. 

The  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  taught  that 
the  power,  glory,  and  blessings  of  the 
priesthood  could  not  continue  with  those 
who  received  ordination,  only  as  their 
righteousness  continued.  The  Apostle 
Peter  refers  to  this  authority  as  a  royal 
priesthood.  The  right  of  this  power 
belongs  to  the  Gods  and  is  shared  by 
them  with  faithful,  divinely  called  men. 
It  is  the  authority  by  which  the  Lord 
Almighty  governs  his  people,  also  by 
which  he  creates  and  controls  all  the 
works  of  his  hands.  Disregard  of  this 
authority  leads  to  darkness,  sin^  and 
often  apostasy,  which  severs  an  indi- 
vidual from  all  rights  and  privileges  of 
the  house  of  God.  Those  who  receive 
a  bestowal  of  this  divine  authority 
should  honor  it  and  be  worthy  of  the 
gifts,  powers,  and  obligations  it  con- 
fers upon  them.  Every  man  who  re- 
ceives the  endowment  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  of  God  can  trace  his  line  of 
authority  in  an  unbroken  chain  back  to 
the  Savior.  The  Lord  has  made  it  clear 
that  every  man  who  holds  this  priest- 
hood must  learn  his  duty  and  act  in 
the  office  in  which  he  is  appointed,  in 
all  diligence;  and  if  he  is  slothful  and 
shows  himself  not  approved,  he  shall 
not  be  counted  worthy  to  stand.  (See 
D  &  C  107:99-100.) 

The  Lord  also  has  admonished  that 
he  will  not  command  in  all  things  but 
instructs  every  man  to  be  anxiously  en- 
gaged in  a  good  cause  and  do  many 
things  of  his  own  free  will  and  bring 
to  pass  much  righteousness.  He  declares 
that  if  a  man  obeys  not  his  command- 
ments, he  will  not  be  guiltless  before 
him.  (See  ibid.,  58:26-30.) 

These  scriptures  enjoin  faithfulness 
and  devotion  of  those  who  receive  the 
authority  of  God's  Holy  Priesthood, 
which  permits  them  to  officiate  in  the 
sacred  ordinances  of  the  true  gospel  of 
Christ.  In  an  important  revelation  on 
priesthood  the  Lord  has  declared: 

The  power  and  authority  of  the  higher, 
or  Melchizedek  Priesthood,   is  to  hold  the 


76 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

keys   of   all   the   spiritual   blessings   of  the 
church — ■ 

To  have  the  privilege  of  receiving  the 
mysteries  of  the  kingdom  of  heaven,  to 
have  the  heavens  opened  unto  them,  to  com- 
mune with  the  general  assembly  and 
church  of  the  Firstborn,  and  to  enjoy  the 
communion  and  presence  of  God  the  Father, 
and  Jesus  the  mediator  of  the  new  cove- 
nant.  (Ibid.,  107:18-19.) 

Therefore,  because  of  its  sacred  na- 
ture and  authority,  possessing  binding 
and  sealing  powers  into  the  eternities, 
the  priesthood  is  accepted  by  those  who 
receive  its  bestowal  with  an  oath  and 
covenant  which  involves  obligations  and 
trusts  of  the  most  sacred  character. 
Those  who  receive  it  must,  like  God, 
abide  in  it,  for  they  share  and  enjoy 
with  him  the  right  of  his  authority  and 
power;  therefore,  they  must  not  permit 
themselves  to  be  moved  out  of  the  right 
way  nor  to  fail. 

According  to  a  revelation  on  priest- 
hood recorded  in  the  84th  section  of 
the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  there  are 
two  main  requirements  of  this  oath  and 
covenant.  First  is  faithfulness,  which 
denotes  obedience  to  the  laws  of  God 
and  connotes  true  observance  of  all 
gospel  standards.  For  better  understand- 
ing of  the  oath  and  covenant  of  the 
priesthood,  may  I  propound  these  ques- 
tions: 

1.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  abide  by  the  first  two  great  com- 
mandments, to  love  the  Lord  God  with 
all  his  heart,  soul,  strength,  and  mind, 
and  his  neighbor  as  himself? 

2.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  is  not 
honest  and  truthful  in  all  dealings  and 
relationships  with  his  fellow  men? 

3.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  honor  the  Sabbath  day  and  keep  it 
holy,  attend  the  Sacrament  and  priest- 
hood meetings;  also  worthily  fulfil  all 
other  duties  in  keeping  with  his  callings 
and  obligations  that  day? 

4.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  plan  and  arrange  for  daily  family 
prayer  in  the  home? 

5.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  teach  his  children  the  true  princi- 
ples of  the  gospel  of  Christ  and  then 
set  them  a  worthy  example  by  living 
according  to  those  truths? 

6.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  observe  and  keep  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom? 


Second  Day 

7.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  pay  an  honest  tithing  and  fast 
offering? 

8.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  obey  the  law  of  chastity  and  is  not 
morally  clean  in  his  life  and  habits? 

9.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not,  through  obedience  and  sacrifice, 
prepare  himself  worthily  for  the  holy 
temples  of  God  where  he  can  receive 
his  endowments  and  sealings  in  the 
higher  ordinances  of  the  gospel  and 
thus  bind  his  family  happily  and  eter- 
nally together  in  love  and  understand- 
ing? 

10.  Can  a  man  be  faithful  who  does 
not  honor  and  obey  the  laws  of  the 
land? 

Perhaps  we  could  summarize  by  ask- 
ing, "Can  a  man  be  faithful  if  he  does 
not  keep  all  the  commandments  of 
God?"  The  Savior  counseled  the  man 
who  came  to  him  and  inquired,  "Good 
Master,  what  good  thing  shall  I  do, 
that  I  may  have  eternal  life?" — by  say- 
ing, ".  .  .  if  thou  wilt  enter  into  life, 
keep  the  commandments."  (Matt.  19:16- 
17.)  This  counsel  from  the  Lord  is  all 
inclusive  and  clearly  points  the  way  to 
joy  and  happiness. 

These  enumerated  thoughts  are  just 
a  few  requirements  associated  with  faith- 
fulness, but  each  is  important.  As  you 
meditate  the  full  meaning  of  the  word, 
other  attributes  that  are  important  quali- 
ties of  faithfulness  will  also  impress  and 
inspire  your  mind  and  heart  for  better 
understanding  and  personal  resolves. 

The  second  requirement  of  the  oath 
and  covenant  of  the  Holy  Priesthood  is 
to  magnify  one's  calling.  To  magnify 
is  to  honor,  to  exalt  and  glorify,  and 
cause  to  be  held  in  greater  esteem  or  re- 
spect. It  also  means  to  increase  the  im- 
portance of,  to  enlarge  and  make  greater. 
Keeping  this  definition  in  mind,  may 
I  again  resort  to  a  few  questions  for 
more  lucid  understanding: 

1.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  office  and 
calling  without  honoring  and  abiding 
in  the  priesthood  faithfully  and  worth- 
ily as  a  devoted  and  true  servant  of  God? 

2.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling 
without  giving  spiritual  and  humble 
dignity  to  his  office? 

3.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling 
who  refuses  to  accept  positions  and  re- 
sponsibilities of  trust  when  called  upon 


ELDER  DELBERT  L.  STAPLEY 


77 


ro  serve  by  his  stake  president,  bishop, 
or  other  constituted  authority? 

4.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling 
if  he  is  not  obedient  to  gospel  standards 
and  requirements,  and  if  he  also  fails  to 
be  amenable  to  the  counsel  and  direc- 
tion of  righteous  men  who  are  properly 
called  and  approved  by  the  people  as 
their  authorized  leaders? 

5.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling 
who  refuses  to  sustain  by  his  faith, 
prayers,  and  works  those  whom  God 
has  called  and  ordained  to  preside  over 
him?, 

6.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling 
who  does  not  use  his  priesthood  in 
righteousness  for  the  blessing  and  bene- 
fit of  his  fellow  men? 

7.  Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling 
who  does  not  banish  all  iniquity  from 
his  soul,  that  he  may  gain  favor  with 
God  and  thus  enjoy  power  in  the  use 
of  the  priesthood  to  bless  people? 

Again,  may  I  summarize  by  asking, 
"Can  a  man  magnify  his  calling  who  is 
not  willing  to  sacrifice  and  consecrate 
all  for  the  building  of  God's  kingdom 
in  righteousness,  truth,  and  power  in 
the  earth?" 

Here  also  by  prayerful  meditation  you 
can  add  other  important  considerations 
applying  to  holders  of  the  Holy  Priest- 
hood magnifying  their  callings,  but 
these  will  suffice  for  the  purpose  of  this 
talk. 

To  be  faithful  and  devoted  to  priest- 
hood obligations  is  the  only  way  man 
can  gain  favor  and  power  with  God 
and  have  rightful  claim  upon  him  for 
blessings  to  himself,  his  family,  and 
others  to  whom  he  may  minister.  The 
priesthood  will  not  abide  in  force  and 
power  with  him  who  does  not  honor 
it  in  his  life  by  complying  with  the 
requirements  of  heaven.  The  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith  declared,  "A  man  can  do 
nothing  for  himself  unless  God  direct 
him  in  the  right  way;  and  the  priest- 
hood is  for  that  purpose."  To  magnify 
his  calling  in  the  priesthood  a  man 
must  use  it  in  righteousness  and  service 
to  his  fellow  men.  If  he  does  so,  he 
will  gain  power  in  its  use  and  thus  be- 
come enlarged  in  his  gifts  and  abilities 
to  perform  greater  service.  Every  man 
who  receives  the  Holy  Priesthood  and 
is  ordained  according  to  the  gifts  and 
callings  of  God  unto  him,   and  faith- 


fully magnifies  his  sacred  calling,  which 
fulfils  the  conditions  of  the  oath  and 
covenant,  is  sanctified  by  the  Spirit  unto 
the  renewing  of  his  body.  He  is  then 
worthy  to  be  numbered  among  the  elect 
of  God,  having  also  received  the  Father's 
kingdom.  By  the  power  of  the  Spirit, 
which  is  light  and  truth,  and  through 
honoring  the  Holy  Priesthood  in  faith- 
fulness and  obedience,  a  man  develops 
holiness  of  life  and  character;  there- 
fore, he  is  set  apart  by  this  regeneration 
of  soul  for  special  and  sacred  trusts 
with  the  glorious  promise  for  having 
continued  in  the  oath  and  covenant 
of  the  priesthood,  that  "all  that  my 
Father  hath  shall  be  given  unto  him." 
(See  D  &  C  84:38.) 

The  Lord  is  bound  to  fulfil  this  prom- 
ise to  those  who  abide  by  the  condi- 
tions of  the  oath  and  covenant.  If  men 
are  not  faithful  in  magnifying  their 
callings,  they  have  no  right  to  expect 
the  blessings  of  this  promise.  Now  the 
Lord  has  affixed  a  penalty  for  violating 
the  oath  and  covenant  of  the  Holy 
Priesthood  by  proclaiming, 

.  .  .  whoso  breaketh  this  covenant  after 
he  hath  received  it,  and  altogether  turneth 
therefrom,  shall  not  have  forgiveness  of 
sins  in  this  world  nor  in  the  world  to  come. 
(Ibid.,  84:41.) 

This  severe  penalty  for  violating  al- 
together the  oath  and  covenant  should 
cause  the  unfaithful  to  repent  of  their 
actions,  sins,  and  transgressions  and  do 
the  works  of  righteousness,  that  they 
might  obtain  forgiveness  and  gain  a 
renewal  of  God's  promises  and  blessings 
to  them.  If  men  recommended  for  the 
office  of  elder  in  the  Melchizedek  Priest- 
hood thoroughly  understood  the  oath 
and  covenant,  also  the  penalty  for  its 
violation,  at  the  time  of  accepting  the 
priesthood,  fewer  of  them,  I  feel  certain, 
would  transgress  its  obligations  and 
drift  into  inactivity  and  thereby  come 
under  condemnation. 

Fathers  holding  this  great  gift  of  the 
Holy  Priesthood  should  set  the  example 
they  desire  their  children  to  follow.  The 
eternal  happiness  of  their  families  de- 
pends upon  the  father's  obedience  to 
God's  laws  and  his  faithful  perform- 
ance in  the  sacred  calling  of  his  priest- 
hood office. 

It  is  my  hope,  my  brothers  and  sisters, 


78 

Saturday,  April  6 

that  this  great  and  important  work 
among  the  inactive  that  has  been  men- 
tioned in  this  conference,  will  not  only 
go  forward  unabated  but  will  also  go 
forward  with  renewed  and  increased 
devotion  and  vigor.  The  compensations 
are  soul-satisfying,  and  the  inactive  are 
given  opportunity  for  rich  experiences 
and  choice  blessings.  It  is  also  my  sin- 
cere wish  and  prayer  that  every  father 
with  his  family  may  attain  this  blessed 
privilege  and  exalted  state  of  eternal 
unity  and  companionship  in  the  celes- 
tial mansions  of  God. 

I  bear  witness  to  the  truthfulness  of 
these  things  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  who  has  just  concluded  speaking 
is  Elder  Delbert  L.  Stapley  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  The  Institute  of 
Religion  Chorus  from  the  Univerity  of 
Utah,  accompanied  by  the  Bonneville 
Strings,  will  now  sing  "Hallelujah," 
conducted  by  David  Austin  Shand.  The 
closing  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
Vernard  L.  Beckstrand,  president  of  the 
San  Jose  Stake. 

In  your  behalf,  I  wish  to  express  ap- 
preciation for  the  presence  and  inspiring 
singing  of  these  young  students  from  the 
University.  Thank  you  for  the  inspira- 
tion you  have  given  us.  You  have  ren- 
dered a  service  which  has  brought  credit 
to  the  Institute  and  your  school.  We 
thank  you  for  this  service  today,  and 
your  presence  here — Dr.  Shand  and  all 
the  students.  God  bless  you  as  you  con- 
tinue a  life  of  service! 

Tonight  at  7  o'clock  the  General 
Meeting  of  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church 
will  be  held  in  the  Salt  Lake  Taber- 
nacle. Only  those  holding  the  Priest- 
hood are  invited  to  be  present.  Persons 
not  holding  the  Priesthood  will  kindly 
refrain  from  attempting  to  enter  the 
building.  The  Priesthood  session  will 
not  be  broadcast.  However,  in  addition 
to  the  overflow  meetings  in  the  Assem- 
bly Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  the  pro- 
ceedings of  this  Priesthood  Meeting  will 
be  relayed  by  closed  circuit  to  members 
of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in  96  other 
Church  buildings  in  Utah,  Idaho,  Colo- 
rado, Washington,  Oregon,  Arizona, 
Wyoming,  Nevada,  Illinois,  New  Mex- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

ico,  Maryland,  Montana,  New  York, 
California,  Pennsylvania,  and  Canada, 
the  largest  ever  held  in  the  Church, 
undoubtedly. 

The  General  Session  at  10'clock  Sun- 
day morning  will  be  broadcast  over  radio 
stations  here  in  the  West  in  Utah,  Idaho, 
and  Nevada.  These  services  will  be 
televised  over  KSL-TV  Channel  5  of 
this  city,  and  by  special  arrangement 
over  21  television  stations  in  the  states 
I  have  named. 

This  is  important,  and  we  ask  your 
cooperation.  The  Church  of  the  Air 
Broadcast  over  CBS  radio  network  will 
be  released  locally  by  transcription  over 
the  Radio  Station  named  from  7:30  a.m. 
to  8:00  a.m.  MST,  and  again  Sunday 
evening  from  9:00  to  9:30  p.m.  Elder 
Marion  G.  Romney  of  the  Council  of 
the  Twelve  will  be  the  speaker.  The 
music  for  the  Church  of  the  Air  Broad- 
cast will  be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir. 

Please  note:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
Broadcast  will  be  from  9:30  to  10:00 
a.m.  Sunday  morning.  Those  desiring 
to  attend  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Broad- 
cast must  be  in  their  seats  at  9:20.  As 
the  10:00  session  will  commence  imme- 
diately following  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Broadcast,  it  will  be  necessary  for  every- 
one attending  to  be  in  his  or  her  seat 
by  9:20  Sunday  morning,  as  there  will 
will  be  no  seats  held  after  that  hour. 
Six  months  ago,  you  will  remember, 
there  was  confusion  for  about  five  min- 
utes between  the  broadcast  and  the 
commencement  of  the  ten  o'clock  session. 
There  were  no  seats,  but  people  crowded 
in  trying  to  find  them.  It  will  be  evi- 
dent that  people  will  be  standing  at  the 
doorway  of  this  building  after  the  Broad- 
cast, but  there  will  be  no  room  for  you, 
so  do  not  attempt  to  find  seats.  We 
suggest,  and  earnestly  plead,  with  those 
thus  standing  to  be  courteous  and  con- 
siderate one  to  another.  Avoid  pushing 
or  crowding.  Courtesy  is  a  great  virtue, 
one  we  need  in  driving  in  Salt  Lake 
City  and  in  Utah.  Let  us  show  it  one 
to  another  here,  and  especially  to  our 
visitors  who  are  within  our  city  gates. 

The  Chorus  will  now  sing,  "Hallelu- 
jah." The  closing  prayer  will  be  of- 
fered by  Elder  Vernard  L.  Beckstrand, 
president  of   the   San   Jose   Stake,   and 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


79 


this  Conference  will  be  adjourned  until  Vernard  L.   Beckstrand,   president  of 

7  o'clock  tonight.  the  San  Jose  Stake,  offered  the  benedic- 

tion. 


"Hallelujah"  was  sung  by  the  Insti- 
tute of  Religion  Chorus. 


Conference  adjourned  until  7:00  p.m. 


GENERAL  PRIESTHOOD  MEETING 


The  General  Priesthood  Meeting  of 
the  Church  convened  in  the  Tabernacle 
at  7:00  p.m.,  Saturday,  April  6,  with 
President  David  O.  McKay  presiding  and 
conducting  the  services. 

The  singing  for  this  meeting  was  fur- 
nished by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Male 
Chorus,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall 
conducting. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  these 
services  are  being  broadcast  in  the  As- 
sembly Hall  and  in  Barratt  Hall,  over 
a  public  address  system,  and  in  addition 
are  being  relayed  by  a  closed  circuit  to 
members  of  the  Priesthood  assembled  in 
96  other  Church  buildings  in  Utah, 
Idaho,  Colorado,  Washington,  Oregon, 
Arizona,  Wyoming,  Nevada,  Illinois, 
New  Mexico,  Maryland,  Montana,  New 
York,  California,  Pennsylvania,  and 
Canada.  It  is  wonderful  to  live  in  this 
age,  and  we  commend  the  brethren  for 
taking  advantage  of  inventions  that 
spread  the  truth. 

The  singing  during  this  session  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir 
Male  Chorus,  with  Elder  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  as  director,  and  Elder  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  at  the  Organ.  We  shall 
begin  these  services  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  Male  Chorus  singing:  "Thou  Art 
Repose"  conducted  by  J.  Spencer  Corn- 
wall. Elder  Valdo  D.  Benson,  presi- 
dent of  the  Blaine  Stake,  will  offer  the 
opening  prayer. 

Singing  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir  Male 
Chorus,  "Thou  Art  Repose." 

Elder  Valdo  D.  Benson,  president  of 
the  Blaine  Stake,  offered  the  opening 
prayer. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  the 
president  of  the  Blaine  Stake,  Elder 
Valdo  D.  Benson.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  Male  Chorus  will  now  sing, 
"Guide  Me  To  Thee,"  directed  by 
Elder  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus 
sang  "Guide  Me  To  Thee." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  here  a  telegram  from  Louis- 
ville, Kentucky  from  the  Servicemen's 
Group  at  Fort  Knox,  "May  the  Lord 
continue  to  bless  and  sustain  you  all  in 
this  great  work,"  signed  by  Lt.  Harold 
R.  Butler,  who  is  Group  Leader.  They 
cannot  hear  us  tonight.  They  are  un- 
able to  hear  Conference  by  radio  or 
television,  but  they  are  aware  of  the 
love  and  sweet  spirit  generated  by  the 
Saints  at  this  Conference  time. 

It  is  most  heartening  and  gratifying 
to  know  how  well  these  Servicemen  are 
keeping  in  close  touch  with  the  Church 
activity  by  carrying  on  their  meetings 
in  the  various  groups  and  camps  where 
they  are  located.    The  Lord  bless  them. 

Brethren,  believing  that  the  better  ac- 
quainted we  are  with  the  various  mis- 
sion fields  we  shall  likely  have  more 
interest  in  the  welfare  of  these  various 
missions,  and  that  our  young  men  and 
young  women  will  not  feel  hesitant 
about  going  to  any  mission  to  which 
they  may  be  called,  we  have  asked  two 
of  our  recently  released  presidents  to 
tell  us  something  about  their  respective 
missions.  The  first  will  be  Elder  Gor- 
don M.  Romney,  formerly  president  of 
the  Central  American  Mission.  He  was 
released  in  1955,  and  was  the  first  presi- 
dent of  that  mission  when  divided. 


80 

Saturday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

ELDER  GORDON  M.  ROMNEY 

Former  president  of  the  Central  American  Mission 


Second  Day 


M' 


y  dear  brethren,  I  can  assure  you 
that  I  faced  many  of  the  Indians 
in  Central  America,  and  not 
knowing  their  language,  I  have  never 
been  so  uneasy  and  frightened  as  I  am 
at  present.  I  also  faced  the  French, 
when  I  first  went  on  a  mission,  not 
knowing  their  language,  and  the  Lord 
came  to  my  help  especially  after  about 
two  weeks  after  having  arrived  on  my 
mission,  and  I  was  able  to  address  an 
audience  for  over  ten  minutes  in  their 
language,  so  I  am  sure  that  if  I  have 
faith  in  him  and  have  your  prayers  in 
my  behalf,  I  am  sure  that  he  will  come 
to  my  rescue  tonight. 

I  was  called  to  preside  over  the  Cen- 
tral American  Mission  in  1952.  For 
three  years  previous  to  1952  my  wife 
and  I  had  a  longing  to  go  to  Central 
America,  and  especially  to  Guatemala. 
For  three  years  we  got  all  the  books 
that  were  obtainable  in  the  library, 
and  also  bought  others,  and  read  about 
Central  America.  We  had  an  urge  to 
go  to  Central  America.  The  first  year 
we  wanted  to  go,  in  January  my  daugh- 
ter suddenly  decided  she  wanted  to  be 
married,  and  we  had  to  come  to  Salt 
Lake;  therefore  we  gave  up  the  trip  to 
Guatemala  the  first  year. 

The  second  year  our  boy  was  sick,  and 
the  second  year  we  failed  to  go  to  Guate- 
mala on  a  vacation.  The  third  year 
rolled  around,  and  I  received  a  telephone 
call  one  day  from  President  Richards, 
who  said,  "We  would  like  you  to  go  to 
Central  America  to  build  some  chapels, 
to  build  a  mission  home,  and  to  preside 
over  the  mission." 

I  was  dumbfounded,  but  I  want  to 
testify  to  you  this  evening  that  the  Lord 
does  operate  through  and  inspire  his 
leaders  about  things  which  are  to  come. 
On  several  occasions  I  have  been  pleased 
and  almost  overwhelmed  by  sitting  in 
the  presence  of  the  General  Authorities 
of  our  Church  and  listening  to  their 
testimonies,  to  counsel  and  advice,  and 
other  things  while  in  their  company. 

I  remember  once  in  Europe  in  the 
presence  of  Dr.  James  E.  Talmage — he 
was  a  great  man,  and  when  he  spoke 
you  could   never   doubt   anything   that 


he  would  say,  as  it  seemed  almost  per- 
fect. He  turned  to  me  one  day  and 
said,  "Brother  Romney,  you  have  a 
work  to  do."  We  were  touring  the 
French  Mission.  I  was  presiding  over 
it  as  the  president  of  the  mission  was 
absent,  and  he  said,  "You  have  a  work 
to  do — a  great  work — something  that  you 
know  nothing  of  at  the  present  time." 
I  have  often  wondered  what  that  was. 
I  think  part  of  it  was  probably  the  work 
in  Central  America. 

Central  America  is  a  great  country.  It 
is  not  what  you  think  it  is.  It  is  called 
the  land  of  eternal  springtime.  It  is 
called  the  jewel  of  the  Caribbean.  It 
is  spring  most  of  the  year  down  there. 
Most  of  the  country  is  about  3000  feet 
above  sea  level,  and  is  nice  and  cool 
as  it  is  here  in  the  spring  and  in  the 
fall.  However,  as  you  get  down  toward 
the  coast  it  of  course  gets  rather  warm. 

Guatemala  is  a  country  of  about 
three  million  people.  About  half  of 
them  still  dress  in  the  Indian  costume 
of  a  thousand  or  two  thousand  years 
back.  They  are  wonderful  people,  very 
simple.  They  are  rather  hard  to  teach 
the  Gospel  to  as  they  do  not  speak  our 
language.  I  remember  standing  in  a 
Catholic  Church  in  Panajachel  on  the 
shores  of  Atitlan,  one  of  the  most  beauti- 
ful lakes  in  Guatemala,  almost  like  those 
in  Switzerland.  I  went  into  the  Cathojic 
Church  when  they  were  holding  a 
"Congreso"  of  the  chiefs  to  present  them 
with  a  Book  of  Mormon.  I  started  to 
say,  "I  come  to  give  you  a  copy  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  a  history  of  your 
people,"  and  two  chiefs  immediately 
arose  on  their  feet,  and  I  started  to  say, 
"You  are  of  the  house  of  Israel,"  but 
before  I  could  get  it  out  of  my  mouth 
they  jumped  to  their  feet  and  said,  "We 
are  of  the  House  of  Israel." 

Of  course  I  asked  why  they  knew 
they  were  of  the  House  of  Israel,  and 
they  said:  "We  know  we  are  of  the 
House  of  Israel  because  of  a  legend  that 
has  been  passed  down  from  Father  to 
Son  through  the  many  generations  since 
we  arrived  from  across  the  sea."  They 
even  knew  in  that  part  of  the  country 
that    they    did    come    from    Palestine, 


ELDER  GORDON  M.  ROMNEY 


81 


which  I  discerned  at  a  later  date.  So 
we  know  that  these  people,  those  who 
have  kept  themselves  aloof  from  mixture 
with  other  peoples,  know  that  they  are 
of  the  blood  of  Israel,  and  through  their 
traditions,  know  that  they  were  once 
a  highly  civilized  people,  and  that  they 
wrote  histories  of  their  people  upon 
plates  of  gold,  as  the  Popul  Vu  will 
testify.  But  in  time  they  lost  the  Scrip- 
tures, or  these  plates  which  they  had, 
and  where  they  went  they  know  not,  but 
they  say,  "They  left  and  we  know  not 
where  they  went." 

Down  in  Panama  we  have  a  condi- 
tion. Of  course  we  have  a  lot  of  Ameri- 
can people,  we  also  have  the  San  Bias 
Islands,  and  the  Indians  who  live  upon 
the  islands  upon  the  eastern  coast  in 
the  Atlantic.  I  remember  when  we 
toured  the  mission  with  Brother  Spencer 
W.  Kimball  and  Brother  Bruce  R. 
McConkie.  These  two  Elders  toured  the 
mission  and  organized  it  and  turned  it 
over  to  me  after  they  left.  I  remember 
upon  leaving  Panama  the  first  time, 
Brother  Kimball  turned  to  me  and  said, 
"Brother  Romney,  don't  forget  the  San 
Bias  Indians."  I  do  not  know  whether 
he  had  ever  seen  the  San  Bias  Indians 
before  or  not.  I  doubt  it.  But  I  know 
that  he  was  inspired  to  tell  me,  "Do  not 
forget  the  San  Bias  Indians." 

On  the  next  trip  to  Panama,  which 
was  about  three  months  later,  the  first 
trip  after  the  mission  was  organized,  I 
asked  the  brethren  to  be  sure  and  take 
some  copies  of  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
give  them  to  the  chiefs  of  the  different 
islands  of  the  San  Bias  group,  and  I 
remember  that  the  next  day  Brother 
Hunsaker  came  rushing  over  and  said, 
"Do  you  have  a  copy  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon  in  Spanish?  I  have  found  the 
son  of  a  chief  who  is  going  out  to  one 
of  the  islands,  and  he  would  like  to 
take  a  copy  of  the  Book  of  Mormon." 

Fortunately  I  had  one  and  gave  it 
to  him.  He  took  it  to  the  son  of  the 
chief,  and  then  a  few  months  later  in 
May — this  was  in  February — I  made  a 
trip  to  the  San  Bias  Islands.  They  live 
on  little  islands  in  houses  with  thatched 
roofs,  and  just  about  the  level  of  the 
ocean.  The  tide  is  only  about  a  foot 
and  a  half  in  that  region.  There  were 
about  1300  on  this  particular  island  of 
Ailigandi,     and    they     live    in     these 


thatched  houses  and  they  go  to  the  is- 
land for  all  of  their  drinking  water, 
and  to  hunt  and  to  obtain  bananas  and 
pineapples.  We  went  to  that  island 
and  this  Jose  Coleman  to  whom  they 
had  given  the  Book  of  Mormon  met  us 
and  he  arranged  a  "congreso"  of  the 
chiefs  on  that  island,  and  he  said,  "We 
will  hold  a  meeting  and  you  can  ex- 
plain the  Gospel  to  them.  I  have  been 
teaching  the  chiefs  the  contents  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon,  translating  it  from 
the  Spanish  into  our  tongue.  I  have 
reached  Second  Nephi,  about  the  Sec- 
ond Chapter." 

I  remember  that  during  this  "Con- 
greso" or,  during  this  little  meeting  that 
we  held  with  them  for  about  an  hour 
and  a  half,  that  he  was  interpreting  for 
me  from  Spanish  into  their  language, 
and  I  noticed  that  he  was  broadening 
out,  and  he  was  not  telling  them  and 
interpreting  exactly  as  I  was  speaking, 
and  I  finally  called  his  hand.  I  said, 
"Now,  you  are  not  telling  the  people 
exactly  what  I  am  telling  you.  The 
language  came  to  me  for  an  instant." 

He  said,  "Yes,  I  know,  but  I  have  a 
testimony.  I  know  that  Lehi  was  a 
prophet  of  God.  I  know  that  Nephi  was 
a  prophet  of  God,  and  that  they  were 
our  ancestors.  I  was  telling  that  to  my 
people."  He  had  received  in  the  process 
of  interpreting  this  little  speech  that  I 
was  attempting  to  make  and  was  giving 
them  his  testimony  that  had  come  <to 
him  instantaneously,  and  he  knew  that 
it  was  the  truth,  and  he  knew  that  the 
Gospel  had  been  restored  among  the 
children  of  men,  and  he  was  telling 
his  brethren  about  it.  A  few  months 
later  he  was  baptized  into  the  Church. 

We  ordained  him  a  teacher.  We 
gave  him  several  copies  of  the  Book  of 
Mormon,  and  the  last  that  I  knew  he 
was  holding  Book  of  Mormon  classes 
among  his  people,  asking  us  if  we 
might  help  build  a  room  in  order  to 
teach  them  the  Restored  Gospel.  He 
was  a  fine  young  man. 

I  wanted  to  tell  you  this  to  show  you 
that  the  Lord  works  mysteriously  some- 
times, his  wonders  to  perform,  but  his 
spirit  is  poured  out  upon  the  people  of 
Central  America.  I  have  never  felt  it 
so  strongly  in  my  life  as  I  have  in  Cen- 
tral America,  in  Panama,  in  Costa  Rica, 


82 

Saturday,  April  6 

in  Honduras,  in  El  Salvador,   and  in 
Guatemala. 

I  remember  coming  up  to  Costa  Rica 
with  Elders  Kimball  and  McConkie  as 
we  were  touring  the  mission  to  find  new 
places  to  open.  At  that  time  we  only 
had  about  150  members  speaking  Span- 
ish throughout  this  country.  We  took 
them  over  from  the  Mexican  Mission, 
and  we  had  about  75  in  Panama  who 
spoke  English.  While  in  Honduras,  we 
were  visiting  and  spending  a  couple  of 
days,  explaining  the  Book  of  Mormon 
to  some  of  the  officials  of  the  govern- 
ment, to  the  Minister  of  Religion,  and 
also  to  the  president  of  the  country. 

I  was  impressed  by  a  waiter  who  was 
waiting  on  our  table  at  the  hotel,  and 
I  turned  to  Brother  Kimball  and  said, 
"Brother  Kimball,  I  like  this  young  man. 
I  am  going  to  give  him  a  tract.  I  think 
that  he  might  accept  the  Gospel." 

Brother  Kimball,  turning  to  me,  said, 
"President  Romney,  you  are  now  look- 
ing at  the  first  elder  in  Honduras.,"  as 
we  had  no  members,  we  had  no  branch 
in  the  country  of  Honduras.  I  was 
astonished,  and  I  said,  "I  hope  you  are 
right,  and  I  believe  you  are  right." 

Of  course  Jose  did  not  know  what  it 
was  all  about,  but  I  gave  him  a  tract 
and  he  read  it,  and  before  we  left  I 
said  I  would  send  him  a  copy  of  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  I  said,  "Jose,  I  will 
either  send  it  to  you  or  bring  it  to  you 
upon  my  first  visit."  Brother  Kimball 
did  not  stop  right  there.  He  wrote  Jose 
a  letter  after  he  got  home,  and  Jose  was 
very  interested  and  he  came  running  to 
me  when  I  went  down  the  next  time, 
and  he  said,  "President  Romney,  Apos- 
tle Kimball  wrote  me  a  letter."  I  said, 
"He  did?"  He  said,  "He  surely  di4 
Did  you  bring  me  that  book?"  I  said, 
"Yes,  here  it  is." 

Here  is  something  else  strange  on  this 
little  episode.  That  was  in  November 
when  we  first  arrived  there.  We  took  the 
elders  there  in  December.  In  February  I 
returned  and  we  had  some  baptisms. 
There  were  five  as  I  remember,  and 
without  me  saying  a  word  to  the  elders, 
Jose  was  the  first  one  into  the  waters  of 
baptism.  I  did  not  ask  for  it,  but  he 
was  the  first  one  to  receive  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood.  I  did  not  push  him.  I 
did  not  recommend  it  to  the  elders.  It 
came  about  naturally,  and  when  I  left 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

he  was  still  a  priest,  as  he  had  a  little 
difficulty  in  paying  his  tithing.  But 
he  finally  paid  his  tithing,  and  I  un- 
derstand that  he  is  now  an  elder.  But 
he  turned  out  to  be  one  of  the  best 
missionaries  we  ever  had  in  Honduras. 
He  taught  the  Gospel  to  his  wife,  to 
his  wife's  sister,  to  his  family,  and  I 
think  he  was  responsible  for  the  elders 
baptizing  at  least  a  half  dozen  or  ten 
members  in  Tegucigalpa,  Honduras. 

I  want  to  testify  to  you  that  that  was 
astonishing  to  me,  but  it  came  about 
just  as  surely  and  naturally  as  anything 
might  come  about.  He  was  the  first  to 
enter  the  waters  of  baptism,  and  he  was 
the  first  to  hold  the  Priesthood  in  Hon- 
duras. I  testify  to  you  that  I  know  that 
these  men  here,  are  men  of  God,-  and 
that  they  know  and  are  inspired  to  fore- 
tell those  things  which  are  to  come, 
and  to  direct  us  in  the  ways  of  the  Lord. 

I  could  tell  you  many  things  that 
happened  in  Central  America.  I  testify 
to  you  that  the  Lord  went  forth  and 
sent  his  servants  before  the  elders,  and 
in  many  instances  the  elders  were  in- 
spired to  go  to  certain  houses  and  the 
way  was  prepared  for  them,  and  in 
dreams,  and  by  personal  visits  by  serv- 
ants of  our  Father  in  Heaven,  men  and 
women  were  prepared  for  the  coming  of 
the  Gospel,  and  when  the  elders  came 
they  said,  "We  knew  you  were  coming, 
and  we  know  that  you  have  the  Gospel 
of  Jesus  Christ  for  us."  In  many  in- 
stances the  Church  was  established  in 
branches  and  in  places  that  we  scarcely 
knew  about. 

I  remember  an  88  year  young  fellow 
there  who  joined  the  Church.  He  final- 
ly became  an  elder,  and  he  told  me,  "I 
have  14  people  in  the  town  of  San 
Marcos  in  northern  Guatemala.  They 
have  signed  a  petition  that  they  wanted 
the  missionaries  to  come  and  preach  the 
Gospel  to  them."  I  immediately  took 
him  to  San  Marcos  in  my  car.  We  vis- 
ited the  town,  and  those  who  had  signed 
the  petition,  and  then  we  made  arrange- 
ments to  hire  a  hall  the  following  Sat- 
urday. We  tracted  the  town,  and  the 
next  Saturday  I  took  this  88  year  old 
elder  back  with  me.  We  went  out  into 
the  country  to  visit  a  schoolteacher  to 
tell  her  that  we  were  holding  a  confer- 
ence that  Saturday  night,  and  she  was 
down  by  the  river  bathing  and  washing 


ELDER  D'MONTE  W.  COOMBS 


83 


her  clothes.  We  thought  that  was  un- 
usual, but  she  said,  "I  knew  that  you 
were  coming  today."  I  said,  "How  did 
you  know?"  She  said  "I  saw  in  a  dream 
or  a  vision  that  you  and  Elder  Maldon- 
ado  were  coming  today,  and  that  you 
would  hold  a  conference  here  in  San 
Marcos  tonight.  That  is  why  I  am 
here  bathing  and  cleaning  in  order  that 
I  might  attend.  I  saw  him  coming  as 
a  small  boy,  leading  the  missionaries 
here  into  San  Marcos.  The  Spirit  told 
me  that  you  would  bring  the  elders 
here  and  preach  the  Gospel,  and  that 
you  would  hold  a  conference  here  to- 
night." 

Then  I  knew  that  the  Lord  wanted  us 
and  our  missionaries  in  San  Marcos.  It 
is  a  thriving  branch  today.  They  have 
also  bought  a  lot  on  which  to  build  a 
chapel,  and  your  sons  and  your  daugh- 
ters have  done  a  wonderful  work  in 
Central  America.  I  want  to  congratu- 
late them.  I  want  to  congratulate  you 
on  the  support  that  you  have  given  us 
in  Central  America,  for  it  was  a  new 
mission,  and  we  had  to  call  mission- 
aries from  Central  America  to  preach 
the  Gospel,  as  we  were  short  of  mis- 
sionaires  from  Zion.     I  want  to  thank 


you  for  that  financial  support  and  that 
help. 

They  will  still  need  help  and  sup- 
port down  there  because  most  of  the 
people  are  too  poor  to  send  their  own 
children  on  missions.  They  cannot  sup- 
port them  as  they  do  not  have  the 
wherewithal.  They  can  help,  yes,  but 
they  cannot  support  them  wholly.  May 
the  Lord  bless  us.  May  he  inspire  us. 
May  we  always  be  fervent  in  the  preach- 
ing of  the  Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  and 
may  we  say,  "we  are  not  ashamed  of  the 
Gospel  of  Jesus  Christ,  for  it  is  the 
power  of  God  unto  salvation  unto  all 
they  who  believe." 

May  God  bless  you  I  pray  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Thank  you,  Brother  Romney.  We 
shall  now  take  a  quick  trip  down  to  the 
Tongan  Mission.  Elder  D'Monte  W. 
Coombs,  formerly  president  of  the 
Tongan  Mission,  will  now  speak  to  us. 
Brother  Coombs  inherited  his  interest 
in  his  mission  from  his  father,  who  was 
also  President  of  Samoa  and  Tonga. 
Brother  Coombs  was  released  in   1955. 


ELDER  D'MONTE  W  .COOMBS 

Former  president  of  the  Tongan  Mission 


In  the  South  Seas  I  had  occasion  to 
precede  President  McKay  on  several 
occasions  to  the  pulpit  and  I  see  we 
are  still  doing  here  the  same  things  that 
we  did  down  there,  he  would  tell  me  he 
wanted  me  to  take  ten  or  fifteen  min- 
utes and  I  would  tell  him  that  I  had 
only  prepared  maybe  five  minutes  and 
he  again  told  me  he  wanted  me  to  take 
fifteen  minutes  tonight  but  again  I  plead 
that  I  have  not  prepared  that  much. 

I  feel  very  weak  and  very  humble  in 
this  invitation  that  President  McKay 
has  so  graciously  given  me  tonight,  and 
I  pray  that  your  faith  and  prayers  will 
be  with  me  so  that  I  can  fill  this  as- 
signment in  a  manner  that  will  be  pleas- 
ing to  our  Father  in  Heaven.  My  heart 
is  full  as  I  stand  here,  because  I  know 
that  this  opportunity  is  another  mani- 
festation of  President  McKay's  and  the 
Brethren's  love  and'  interest  in  our  breth- 


ren, the  Tongans  and  their  kindred,  the 
other  Polynesians. 

It  is  difficult  for  people  here  at  home 
to  realize  that  Tonga  is  a  tiny  kingdom 
governed  by  its  own  Queen  and  its  own 
Parliament  and  its  own  system  of 
hereditary  nobles,  and  that  these  are  re- 
sponsible to  no  one  or  to  no  other  gov- 
ernment but  themselves  for  the  manner 
in  which  they  rule.  At  times  very  re- 
strictive measures  have  been  passed  with 
our  Church  in  view  and  even  now  the 
number  of  missionaries  that  we  are  al- 
lowed to  send  to  Tonga  is  very  highly 
restricted. 

Our  people,  the  members  of  the 
Church  in  Tonga,  have  always  re- 
spected and  loved  their  Queen  and  her 
nobles  and  obeyed  their  edicts  and  re- 
quests perhaps  better  than  the  rest  of 
Her  Majesty's  subjects.  This  love,  how- 
ever, has  not  always  been  reciprocated, 


84 

Saturday,  April  6 

because  in  being  Mormons  our  people 
were  to  that  extent  being  rebellious  to 
the  Queen  by  not  belonging  to  the 
Church  of  which  she  is  the  head. 

I  should  say  at  this  point,  however, 
that  many,  including  the  Queen,  are 
beginning  to  understand  and  to  respect 
what  the  Church  is  trying  to  do  for  the 
Tongan  people  and  she  and  many  of  the 
nobles  have  expressed  their  appreciation 
to  us  many  times  for  what  we  are  do- 
ing. Even  though  one  might  think  that 
these  restrictive  measures  have  slowed 
down  the  growth  of  the  Church  in 
Tonga,  it  seemed  that  the  Mission  has 
thrived  on  discrimination.  We  now 
have  in  the  neighborhood  of  4,000  mem- 
bers of  the  Church  in  Tonga  as  against 
750  about  thirty  years  ago. 

We  found  most  of  the  Tongans  when 
we  arrived  there,  loyal  and  of  good 
morale.  We  also  found,  however,  that 
few  of  the  forty  branches  there  estab- 
lished knew  much  of  Church  govern- 
ment, and  their  understanding  of  the 
Gospel  was  hazy.  This  was  due,  prin- 
cipally, to  the  shortage  of  missionaries 
and  the  fact  that  some  of  the  heads  of 
organizations  were  new  converts  that  had 
been  converted  by  native  Tongan  mis- 
sionaries whose  knowledge  of  the  Gospel 
was  imperfect. 

Native  Tongans  have  been  used  in 
Tonga  for  years  to  make  up  for  the 
shortage  of  missionaries  from  the  stakes. 
Our  Tongans  are  willing  workers  and 
they  are  quite  willing  to  obey  the  prin- 
ciples of  the  Gospel  once  they  under- 
stand them.  It  was  merely  a  matter  of 
teaching.  They  are  improving  in  their 
payments  of  tithes  and  offerings  year 
by  year.  Most  of  them  are  convinced 
in  their  hearts  that  they  are  of  Jacob 
and  that  they  are  entitled  to  the  bless- 
ings of  Jacob. 

Time  will  not  permit  my  going  into 
the  great  magnitude  of  their  faith.  But 
I  can  join  in  testimony  from  personal 
experience  with  the  testimonies  of  others 
that  have  been  borne  from  this  pujpit 
as  to  their  great  faith. 

When  we  arrived  in  Tonga  we  found 
completed  a  beautiful  new  school, 
called  Liahona.  For  a  staff  we  had  a 
very  competent  principal,  his  wife,  one 
sick  missionary  and  a  few  Tongans. 
These  Tongans,  while  loyal  and  devoted, 
were  themselves  in  need  of  instruction 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

in  efficient  methods  of  classroom  instruc- 
tion. One  year  of  operation  under  this 
staff  gave  us  results  that  were  about  on 
a  par  with  the  rest  of  the  schools  in 
the  Islands,  but  we  felt  that  par  was 
not  nearly  good  enough.  The  government 
was  thereupon  persuaded  to  lift  its  re- 
strictions against  the  entry  of  mission- 
aries into  the  kingdom  and  they  agreed 
to  allow  teachers  to  enter  if  they  would 
not  engage  in  missionary  activities. 

Most  of  the  Tongan  Cabinet  was 
against  the  concession,  but  the  Crown 
Prince,  who  was  also  the  Premier  and  a 
man  who  is  interested  in  the  advance- 
ment of  his  people,  virtually  bulled 
through  the  Cabinet  permission  for  our 
teachers  to  enter  Tonga. 

The  Church  on  its  part  obtained  for 
us  highly  competent  teachers  to  staff  our 
school  so  that  it  was  not  long  before 
teachers  that  were  trained  in  agriculture, 
manual  training,  sewing,  home  eco- 
nomics, music,  and  general  education 
were  available  to  staff  our  school.  With 
such  a  staff  who  were  not  only  compe- 
tent in  their  fields  but  who  were  also 
devoted  to  their  work  with  the  Tongan 
people,  the  climb  was  soon  begun  and  it 
was  soon  obvious  to  all,  both  in  and  out 
of  the  Church,  that  our  school  was 
turning  out  the  best  students  in  the 
kingdom.  I  just  received  a  note  from 
one  of  our  Tongans  that  this  year,  this 
was  a  month  or  so  ago,  we  wrote  our 
best  record  ever.  We  assume  that  next 
year  we  will  still  be  better  and  so  on 
into  the  future. 

In  addition  to  the  secular  knowledge 
obtained  in  our  school,  and  much  more 
important  to  us,  was  the  change  in  the 
lives  of  our  students.  For  six  or  seven 
years  of  their  most  impressionable  years 
they  were  at  the  school  for  virtually 
twenty-four  hours  a  day,  ten  months  out 
of  the  year,  under  a  very  closely  con- 
trolled environment.  It  was  gratifying 
to  us  to  note  that  after  a  student  had 
been  with  us  for  five  or  six  years,  he 
left  the  school  more  refined  and  more 
anxious  and  able  to  live  the  command- 
ments of  the  Gospel. 

I  had  occasion  to  note  the  behavior 
of  students  who  had  been  with  us  only 
two  or  three  years  in  comparison  with 
those  that  had  been  with  us  five  or  six 
years.  The  difference  was  remarkable. 
As    an    example,    the    criterion    among 


ELDER  D'MONTE  W.  COOMBS 


85 


most  Tongans  of  what  makes  a  good 
husband  is  what  he  possesses,  or  what 
rank  he  holds,  even  though  his  posses- 
sion may  be  just  a  home  or  a  plot  of 
land  or  a  horse.  I  have  seen  some  of 
our  lovely,  clean  young  girls  married 
by  her  family  to  someone  who  by  our 
standards  was  immoral.  His  qualifica- 
tion— he  had  a  horse.  On  the  other 
hand,  many  of  our  graduates  from  Lia- 
hona  now  have  the  same  aims  in  mar- 
riage that  our  young  people  in  the  States 
do,  that  is,  they  insist  first  of  all  on 
moral  cleanliness. 

I  have  talked  a  lot  about  our  young 
people  because  that  is  where  our  most 
noticeable  growth  could  be  observed. 
Through  Liahona  extended  programs 
were  initiated  for  teaching  and  helping 
the  older  folks,  particularly  in  relation 
to  Church  government  and  their  under- 
standing of  the  Gospel.  Our  mission 
auxiliaries  were  officered  by  Liahona 
people  and  much  of  our  lesson  material 
was  translated  and  printed  and  dis- 
tributed from  the  school. 

While  we  were  in  Tonga  we  obtained 
from  the  Church  appropriations  that 
will  double  our  dormitory  capacity, 
provide  another  school  building,  build 
a  new  mission  home,  and  build  about 
twenty  new  brick  chapels  complete  with 
classrooms  and  recreation  halls.  These 
are  now  under  construction.  It  is  ex- 
pected that  all  this,  in  addition  to  prob- 
able new  schools  in  the  future,  will 
combine  with  Liahona  to  help  our 
Tongan  brethren  achieve  the  stature 
that  their  Nephite  ancestors  envisioned 
that  they  would  achieve. 

I  feel  I  must  not  sit  down  without  tell- 
ing you  a  little  of  the  blessing  we  re- 
ceived from  President  McKay's  visit  to 
our  mission.  I  still  become  a  bit  emo- 
tional when  I  think  of  President  McKay 
entering  our  school  grounds  and  the  na- 
tives gazing  at  their  Prophet  with  tear- 
filled  eyes  when  they  first  met  him.  I 
can  still  see  persons  of  low  birth  and 
of  high  birth,  not  of  the  Church,  and 
some  in  the  Church,  crawling  up  to  him 
as  he  sat  viewing  the  ceremonies,  to  ask 
a  blessing,  and  he  on  his  turn  admon- 
ishing me  that  they  must  not  kneel 
down  to  him. 

I  can  still  see  vividly  a  scene  in  Vava'u 
where  President  McKay  stood  silently 
for  a  few  moments   as  he  gazed  upon 


a  packed  congregation,  and  then  he  final- 
ly asked  them:  "Do  you  know  what  I 
saw  today  in  a  vision?"  Then  he  paused 
for  a  few  seconds,  and  then  he  answered 
his  own  question:  "I  saw  a  temple  for 
these  islands."  This,  his  first  announce- 
ment of  a  temple  in  the  South  Pacific 
made  tears  gush  from  all  those  present. 
As  you  know,  a  temple  is  now  being 
erected  in  New  Zealand,  and  the  na- 
tives of  Tonga  and  of  Samoa  and  the 
other  South  Pacific  Islands  regard  it  as 
their  temple. 

President  McKay's  visit  has  now  en- 
tered the  folk  lore  of  the  Tongan  people, 
and  should  you  go  down  to  Tonga  now 
or  any  time  in  the  future,  you  would 
undoubtedly  hear  the  word  Palesiteni 
McKay,  which  is  Tongan  for  "President 
McKay"  woven  in  the  song  and  poem 
and  dance  as  they  tell  and  retell  and 
act  out  the  events  of  the  visit. 

It  was  a  never-to-be-forgotten  blessing. 

Time  will  not  permit  but  a  passing 
mention  of  a  visit  to  Tonga  by  Elder 
LeGrand  Richards  to  dedicate  the 
school.  The  Queen  attended  with  many 
of  her  nobles.  About  eleven  300  to  600- 
pound  pigs  were  slaughtered,  called 
buaka  toho,  and  well  on  to  a  thousand 
young  pigs,  innumerable  fowl  and  fish 
were  prepared  for  this  occasion. 

To  me  the  mission  was  a  glorious  ex- 
perience and  I  am  truly  grateful  for  it. 

I  should  mention  my  wife,  who  was  a 
bride  of  just  six  months  when  she  ar- 
rived in  Tonga  with  me.  In  addition 
to  being  a  full-time  missionary,  and  con- 
ducting the  affairs  of  the  Relief  Society, 
she  bore  two  children,  and  still  found 
time  to  keep  things  going  so  that  I  could 
devote  my  full  time  to  the  work  of  the 
mission. 

I  should  like  also  to  mention  many 
devoted  missionaries  that  were  sent  there 
from  the  States,  who  made  it  their  aim 
to  make  Liahona  the  finest  school  in 
the  Islands — I  think  that  they  succeeded. 
One,  particularly,  who  was  there  for  so 
long,  Elder  Ermal  Morton,  was  there  for 
six  years  and  left  us  a  legacy  of  trans- 
lated material.  The  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated  by  him  and  he  is  now  trans- 
lating the  Doctrine  and  Covenants.  He 
has  translated  liberally  of  textbooks  and 
Church  books,  so  that  now  in  Tonga  we 
have  quite  a  Tongan  literature,  because 
of  the  work  of  this  man.    Also,  he  is  a 


86 

Saturday,  April  6 

very  able  administrator  and  he  saw  the 
school  grow  from  a  patch  in  the  woods 
until  it  is  now  the  fine  institution  that 
it  is  today. 

And  all  of  the  rest  of  the  missionaries 
who  were  sent  out,  who  labored  devoted- 
ly and  diligently  to  make  our  school  a 
fine  school,  and  our  mission  the  finest, 
they  should  be  acknowledged  publicly 
and  given  thanks. 

And  I  should  not  forget  the  Tongans. 
They  are  good  people.  They  give  of 
everything  they  have,  whether  they  are 
asked  or  not,  and  they  expect  very  little 
in  return.  There  are  many  who  have 
served  among  them  who  think  that  they 
deserve  all  that  the  Church  has  done 
for  them  in  the  past,  all  that  it  is  doing 
for  them  now,  and  all  that  the  Church 
can  do  for  them  in  the  future,  because 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

we  are  convinced  that  they  are  of  Nephi 
and  that  they  have  a  great  and  wonder- 
ful future. 

May  God  bless  those  wonderful  peo- 
ple. 

I  close  by  leaving  with  you  my  testi- 
mony that  I  know  that  this  is  the  work 
of  the  Lord  and  I  do  this  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Congregation  will  now  sing  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel,"  Brother  Cornwall  con- 
ducting. After  the  singing  we  will  hear 
from  President  J.  Reuben  Clark,  Jr. 


Singing  by  the  congregation  and  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus,  "Re- 
deemer of  Israel." 


PRESIDENT  J.  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 

Second  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


My  brethren,  I  have  been  intensely 
interested  in  the  accounts  of  Broth- 
er Romney  and  Brother  Coombs 
and  as  I  sat  here  there  came  to  me  a 
thought  that  I  have  had  many  times  be- 
fore. I  wonder  how  much  our  pre- 
sumed scientific  knowledge,  so-called, 
has  cost  us  in  faith.  I  lived  among  those 
people  myself  for  four  years.  I  loved 
them.  I  loved  their  innocence  of  things 
worldly.  I  loved  the  simplicity  of  their 
lives.  I  loved  the  simplicity  of  their 
faith.  Some  transgressions  because  of 
their  innocence  seem  to  leave  them  un- 
touched in  faith. 

And  I  wonder  how  much  the  little 
I  know  about  the  material  gains  in 
physical  sciences  and  the  presumed  great 
laws  of  nature  which  we  do  not  yet  have 
in  their  fullness  nor  fully  understand, 
I  wonder  how  much  that  is  worth  to  me 
in  terms  of  faith.  I  do  have  a  testimony. 
I  do  know  that  God  answers  prayers.  I 
do  know  that  he  can  heal.  I  do  know 
that  I  have  seen  his  healing.  I  repeat, 
I  do  know  that  he  answers  prayers.  But 
I  often  wonder  how  much  better  I 
might  know  it  if  my  faith  had  not  been 
tampered  with.  Sometimes  our  faith 
waits  on  our  presumed  knowledge.  I  hope 
and  I  pray  that  we  can  bring  into  our 


hearts,  into  our  souls  the  simple  princi- 
ples of  the  Gospel.  Why  should  we 
worry  about  the  things  that  the  Lord 
has  not  made  clear.  Why  should  we 
worry  about  the  things  that  he  has  not 
revealed,  usually  relating  as  they  do,  to 
matters  that  are  not  of  much  importance 
in  the  way  we  live.  Why  not  put  all 
extraneous  things  out  of  our  minds  as 
affecting  our  faith  and  just  believe  not 
only  but  come  to  know  the  power  of 
faith  and  what  it  can  do  for  us. 

Brethren,  I  feel,  speaking  for  myself, 
that  I  do  not  yet  appreciate  or  under- 
stand what  I  might  do  if  my  faith  were 
perfect. 

I  thought  tonight  that  I  might  say 
just  a  word  or  two,  not  too  much,  about 
what  I  have  thought  of  as  "The  Chaste 
Life."  I  would  like  to  pay  my  respects 
and  my  congratulations  to  the  tens  of 
thousands  of  our  people  and  of  our 
young  people  who  are  clean  and  pure, 
who  are  enjoying  all  of  the  blessings 
that  cleanliness  and  purity  can  bring 
and  they  are  among  the  richest  bless- 
ings that  our  Heavenly  Father  has  to 
bestow.  I  honor  those,  those  of  clean 
lives,  free  from  transgression,  respected. 
I  pray  God  to  keep  them  clean  and  pure 


PRESIDENT  ].  REUBEN  CLARK,  JR. 


87 


and  so  far  as  possible  innocent.  But 
when  I  partially  realize  how  much  the 
radio  and  the  television  and  the  play 
impart  into  the  minds  of  our  youth, 
who  know  far  more  than  some  of  the 
older  of  us  people  about  sex,  I  wish  it 
were  possible  not  to  pollute  their  young 
minds. 

And  I  think  that  we,  bearers  of  the 
Priesthood,  should  do  all  in  our  power 
to  keep  them  as  innocent  as  we  may 
while  at  the  same  time  giving  such  in- 
structions as  they  should  have  to  help 
them  keep  clean,  not  to  teach  them  how 
to  avoid  evidences  of  uncleanliness. 

But  we  have  a  few,  as  Brother  Joseph 
Fielding  said  today,  speaking  of  the  Sab- 
bath, too  many — one,  said  he,  is  too 
many —  we  have  a  few  who  are  not  as 
we  would  like,  and  I  blame  in  part  for 
their  views,  their  habits,  their  thoughts, 
their  transgressions,  the  teachings  that 
they  receive.  And  one  of  the  worst  of 
the  teachings  that  come  to  them  is  that 
teaching  which  is  becoming  too  com- 
mon, that  the  sex-urge  is  a  natural  urge 
to  be  gratified  like  the  urge  for  drink  or 
for  food.  Satan  has  not  invented  any 
more  unrighteous,  hideous  doctrine  than 
that,  and  he  knows  it,  and  yet,  brought 
up  as  some  of  us  are  brought  up,  under 
environments  where  we  do  not  hear 
sufficient  antidotes  for  this  poison,  we 
hear  it,  we  listen,  we  believe,  we  try, 
and  then  comes  all  the  woes  that  at- 
tend to  unchastity. 

You  know,  when  we  read  in  the  great 
law  books  in  the  Old  Testament,  specifi- 
cally Leviticus,  Numbers,  and  Deuter- 
onomy, we  may  think  that  the  Lord 
there  is  chastising  and  perhaps  prescrib- 
ing for  the  sins  of  Israel,  and  I  thought 
I  would  just  like  to  read  to  you  two  or 
three  paragraphs  taken  from  the  Book  of 
Leviticus,  the  18th  chapter: 

"Speak  unto  the  children  of  Israel, 
and  say  unto  them  (this  is  the  command 
to  Moses),  I  am  the  Lord  your  God. 
(Note  this:—) 

"After  the  doings  of  the  land  of  Egypt, 
wherein  ye  dwelt,  shall  ye  not  do:  and 
after  the  doings  of  the  land  of  Canaan, 
whither  I  bring  you,  shall  ye  not  do: 
neither  shall  ye  walk  in  their  ordinances. 

"Ye  shall  do  my  judgments,  and  keep 
mine  ordinances,  to  walk  therein:  I  am 
the  Lord  your  God. 


"Ye  shall  therefore  keep  my  statutes, 
and  my  judgments:  which  if  a  man  do, 
he  shall  live  in  them:  I  am  the  Lord." 
(Lev.   18:2-5) 

And  following  this  throughout  the 
Books,  there  are  a  series  of  command- 
ments regarding  sex  sins.  And  in  order, 
as  it  seems  to  me,  to  keep  the  Children 
of  Israel  from  committing  these  sins,  the 
Lord  proceeds  to  name  them  and  to 
prescribe  penalties  for  their  commission. 
I  am  going  to  just  mention  a  few  of 
them. 

First  is  incest.  I  am  not  enlarging  on 
it.  In  the  law  incest  included  more  than 
we  now  ascribe  to  it.  It  included  mar- 
riage between  people  within  prohibited 
relationships.  The  penalty  for  incest 
was  death  to  both  parties. 

Fornication — sometimes  adultery  and 
fornication  are  used  interchangeably. 
But  for  certain  kinds  of  fornication,  the 
penalty  was  death. 

For  adultery,  it  was  death  for  both 
parties. 

For  homosexuality,  it  was  death  to  the 
male  and  the  prescription  or  penalty  for 
the  female  I  do  not  know. 

For  beastiality,  it  was  death  for  both 
the  man  involved  and  for  the  woman. 

Prostitution  was  called  an  abomina- 
tion. 

After  the  Lord  finished  his  listing  of 
abominations  recorded  here,  he  con- 
tinued: 

"Defile  not  ye  yourselves  in  any  of 
these  things:  for  in  all  these  the  nations 
are  defiled  which  I  cast  out  before  you: 

"And  the  land  is  defiled:  therefore  I 
do  visit  the  iniquity  thereof  upon  it, 
and  the  land  itself  vomiteth  out  her 
inhabitants. 

"Ye  shall  therefore  keep  my  statutes 
and  my  judgments,  and  shall  not  com- 
mit any  of  these  abominations;  neither 
any  of  your  own  nation,  nor  any  stranger 
that  sojourneth  among  you: 

"(For  all  these  abominations  have 
the  men  of  the  land  done,  which  were 
before  you,  and  the  land  is  defiled;) 

"That  the  land  spue  not  you  out  also, 
when  ye  defile  it,  as  it  spued  out  the 
nations  that  were  before  you. 

"For  whosoever  shall  commit  any  of 
these  abominations,  even  the  souls  that 
commit  them  shall  be  cut  off  from 
among  their  people. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Saturday,  April  6 

"Therefore  shall  ye  keep  mine  ordi- 
nance, that  ye  commit  not  any  one  of 
these  abominable  customs,  which  were 
committed  before  you,  and  that  ye  de- 
file not  yourselves  therein:  I  am  the 
Lord  your  God."  (Lev.  18:24-30.) 

I  wonder  if  the  defilement  of  the  land 
by  abominations  still  has  force  and 
effect,  and  if  it  has  any  significance  for 
us? 

That  was  the  way  in  which  the  Lord 
taught  the  Israelites  what  they  should 
not  do.  Death  was  to  be  by  burning  or 
by  stoning.  You  will  remember  the 
story  of  the  woman  taken  in  adultery, 
found  in  John  8.  You  will  remember 
the  incident  of  David  and  Bathsheba, 
you  will  find  that  in  II  Samuel,  the 
eleventh  chapter  and  following.  And 
then  you  will  remember  the  story  of 
Corianton  and  Isabel.  I  am  going  to 
read  that  in  just  a  minute.  I  am  men- 
tioning these  things  merely  to  show 
that  Israel  lived  under  a  code  that  would 
not  tolerate  any  such  doctrine  as  that 
the  sex-urge  was  a  natural  one  and  to 
be  gratified  just  as  the  urge  of  thirst 
and  of  hunger. 

I  would  like  ourselves,  the  Priesthood, 
and  our  youth  to  understand  that  sex 
transgression  is  tragically  serious,  not 
something  to  be  lightly  considered,  and 
I  would  call  your  attention  to  a  state- 
ment, if  I  can  find  it,  from  the  Prophet, 
who  said  that  (this  was  the  idea)  wrong 
always  gnaws  at  the  heart  of  the  trans- 
gressor. "Those  who  have  done  wrong 
always  have  that  wrong  gnawing  them." 
(DHC  6,  p.  366.) 

Now,  I  want  to  read  you  the  story 
of  Corianton  as  told  by  Alma,  in  that 
Book  of  Alma,  and  this  tells  the  trans- 
gression sufficiently,  as  well  as  the 
doctrine  involved.  Alma,  speaking  to 
his  son  Corianton  said: 

"For  thou  didst  not  give  so  much  heed 
unto  my  words  as  did  thy  brother, 
among  the  people  of  the  Zoramites. 
Now  this  is  what  I  have  against  thee; 
thou  didst  go  on  unto  boasting  in  thy 
strength  and  thy  wisdom. 

"And  this  is  not  all,  my  son.  Thou 
didst  do  that  which  was  grievous  unto 
me;  for  thou  didst  forsake  the  ministry 
(remember  he  had  been  called  on  a 
mission),  and  did  so  over  into  the  land 


Second  Day 

of    Siron,    among    the    borders    of    the 
Lamanites,  after  the  harlot  Isabel. 

"Yea,  she  did  steal  away  the  hearts 
of  many;  but  this  was  no  excuse  for 
thee,  my  son.  Thou  shouldst  have 
tended  to  the  ministry  wherewith  thou 
wast  entrusted. 

"Know  ye  not,  my  son,  that  these 
things  are  an  abomination  in  the  sight 
of  the  Lord;  yea,  most  abominable  above 
all  sins  save  it  be  the  shedding  of  inno- 
cent blood  or  denying  the  Holy 
Ghost?  .  .  ." 

And  then  after  a  verse  on  the  Holy 
Ghost,  he  continues: 

"And  now,  my  son,  I  would  to  God 
that  ye  had  not  been  guilty  of  so  great 
a  crime.  I  would  not  dwell  upon  your 
crimes,  to  harrow  up  your  soul,  if  it 
were  not  for  your  good. 

"But  behold,  ye  cannot  hide  your 
crimes  from  God;  and  except  ye  repent 
they  will  stand  as  a  testimony  against 
you  at  the  last  day. 

"Now  my  son,  I  would  that  ye  should 
repent  and  forsake  your  sins,  and  go  no 
more  after  the  lusts  of  your  eyes,  but 
cross  yourself  in  all  these  things;  for 
except  ye  do  this  ye  can  in  nowise  in- 
herit the  kingdom  of  God.  Oh,  remem- 
ber, and  take  it  upon  you,  and  cross 
yourself  in  these  things."  (Alma  39:2-9.) 

My  purpose  in  saying  what  I  have 
said  and  reading  what  I  have  read  is 
to  bring  home  to  us  the  seriousness  of 
these  sex  transgressions.  Everything 
that  we  can  do,  and  here  the  unity  of 
the  Priesthood  comes  again,  we  should 
do.  Satan  had  Cain  ask  the  Lord,  "Am 
I  my  brother's  keeper?"  That  question 
did  not  come  from  the  spirit  of  the  Lord. 
We  are  our  brothers'  keepers.  It  is  our 
duty,  each  and  every  one  of  us,  to  do  all 
that  we  possibly  can  do  to  restrain  our 
brethren  and  our  sisters,  and  particularly 
our  young  people  from  committing  them- 
selves as  some  are  doing.  There  is  no 
happiness  in  it  for  them  here  or  here- 
after. There  is  grief  and  sorrow  and 
regret.  There  usually  is  an  effort  to 
repent  but  repentance  brings  an  agony 
of  spirit. 

Let  us  all  without  obtrusion,  without 
offense,  in  gentleness,  in  persuasion, 
and  above  all,  in  good  example,  try  as 
best  we  can  to  improve  the  few  who 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


89 


are  in  or  going  into  transgression  and      to  keep  themselves  pure,  I  humbly  pray, 


to  prevent  others  from  following  their 
course.  It  is  no  light  thing  to  trans- 
gress sexually;  it  is  a  tragedy. 

God  give  us  the  power  and  the  knowl- 
edge to  know  how  to  do  the  things 
that  I  am  suggesting,  namely,  help  others 


in  the  name  of  Jesus.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President   Stephen    L    Richards    will 
now  speak  to  us. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


I  could  wish  that  all  of  the  Priest- 
hood assembled  in  the  96  meeting 
halls  where  they  are  met  tonight 
might  have  been  present  last  evening 
in  the  Tabernacle  to  have  listened  to 
and  seen  the  program  of  the  missionary 
work  of  the  Church.  I  think  had  all 
been  present  there,  it  would  have  been 
unnecessary  for  me  thus  to  bring  an 
item  or  two  of  missionary  work  to  your 
attention. 

We  have  all  been  deeply  impressed 
by  the  reports  of  missions  which  have 
come  to  us,  and  I  am  sure  they  have 
stirred  us  to  a  sense  of  great  responsi- 
bility in  carrying  the  Gospel  to  the 
world. 

I  wish  to  appeal  to  all  of  the  Priest- 
hood, and  to  the  famiiles  of  the  Church 
through  the  Priesthood,  for  more  mis- 
sionaries at  this  time.  You  have  heard 
that  we  have  a  considerable  force  in 
the  field,  but  I  must  apprise  you  of  the 
fact  that  they  who  are  returning  from 
the  field  in  such  large  numbers  require 
more  replacements  than  we  can  fur- 
nish from  those  whom  you  are  recom- 
mending to  us  week  by  week  and  month 
by  month.  If  everyone  could  realize 
the  problems  of  a  mission  president,  I 
am  sure  that  all  would  be  appreciative 
of  the  need  for  missionaries  to  keep  up 
a  more  or  less  standard  quota  in  our 
missions.  As  the  missionaries  extend 
the  work,  they  usually  organize  small 
branches  of  the  Church,  Sunday  Schools, 
small  groups,  which  have  to  be  nur- 
tured and  cared  for  by  the  missionaries. 

When  a  sufficient  number  of  mission- 
ary terms  expire  so  that  the  mission 
president  is  not  able  to  keep  in  those 
branches  the  number  who  are  requisite 
to   carry  them  on,  it  not  infrequently 


means  that  a  small  branch  that  had  a 
good  start  must  be  more  or  less  dis- 
organized because  possibly  no  one  of 
sufficient  stature  in  the  Church  is  there 
to  administer  it,  and  it  therefore  means 
something  of  a  loss  in  the  forward  mo- 
tion of  our  missionary  work.  We  do 
need  more  missionaries  at  the  present. 

We  need,  of  course,  those  who  are 
able  to  carry  forward  the  work,  and  as 
we  mentioned  to  the  brethren  and  sis- 
ters last  night,  they  must  be  in  good 
health — preferably  younger  people  who 
can  stand  the  more  strenuous  effort. 
They  must  be,  too,  impressed  with  the 
necessity  and  the  desirability  of  mis- 
sionary work.  I  am  sure  we  were 
touched  tonight  as  we  heard  these  mis- 
sion presidents  express  their  interest  in 
the  people  where  they  served.  They 
knew  they  were  blessing  their  lives,  and 
every  missionary  should  know  that, 
if  he  would  render  the  best  and  most 
effective  service. 

So,  we  appeal  to  you,  my  brethren  of 
the  Priesthood,  to  attempt  to  send  from 
the  homes  of  the  people  those  who  can 
meet  the  needs  of  the  various  missions. 
And  may  I  make  a  suggestion,  too,  that 
may  prevent  some  disappointment.  So 
many  of  our  young  folks  make  up  their 
minds  where  they  would  like  to  serve, 
and  perhaps  there  is  a  certain  legitimacy 
to  their  having  a  preference,  but  it  can 
readily  be  seen  that  if  all  preferences 
were  to  be  observed,  that  we  would  fail 
to  meet  the  needs  of  the  missions  as 
those  needs  arise.  Therefore,  they  who 
are  called  to  serve  in  the  missionary 
field  should  be  impressed  with  the  neces- 
sity of  answering  the  calls  that  come 
to  them  with  gladness  and  willingness, 
wherever  the  mission  might  be,  in  order 


90 

Saturday,  April  6 

to  carry  forward  our  Father's  work  for 
the  reclamation  of  the  souls  of  his 
children. 

I  take  occasion  to  mention  to  the 
Priesthood,  too,  that  all  of  our  mission- 
aries who  come  into  the  field  now,  or 
who  contemplate  coming  in  the  near 
future,  should  have  their  polio  inocu- 
lation. If  they  do  that  in  advance  of 
the  time  when  they  come  to  the  mission 
home,  considerable  time  will  be  saved, 
and  they  will  be  able  to  have  the  com- 
plete inoculation  earlier  than  if  they 
left  their  inoculations  until  they  arrived 
here. 

All  missionaries  who  come  to  the  Mis- 
sion Home  should  come  with  temple 
recommends.  We  had  thought  that 
was  clearly  understood  throughout  the 
Church,  and  yet  there  is  scarcely  a 
company  which  comes  to  the  Mission 
Home  in  which  some  temple  recom- 
mends are  not  forthcoming,  and  time 
is  required  in  order  to  get  those  recom- 
mends to  go  to  the  temple.  All  of  the 
missionaries  who  come  to  the  Home  go 
through  the  temple  twice  while  they 
are  here. 

I  think  I  will  not  take  occasion  to 
mention  any  further  items  about  our 
missionaries.  I  scarcely  need  to  impress 
upon  the  Priesthood  of  the  Church  the 
necessity  of  furnishing  to  the  Church 
those  who  shall  carry  forward  this  great 
work.  One  of  the  most  encouraging 
things  to  me,  following  the  long  jour- 
neys that  our  President  has  made 
throughout  the  world,  is  the  growth  of 
our  work  in  distant  lands  of  the  earth, 
of  which  you  had  example  this  evening. 
This  great  Gospel  is  intended  for  all 
men.  There  is  no  nation  to  be  favored, 
if  the  children  of  our  Father  will  but 
open  their  hearts  to  the  reception  of  the 
truth,  and  there  is  no  one  to  carry  that 
message  excepting  you,  the  great  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church,  and  the  sisters  who 
assist  us  in  missionary  labors. 

I  have  been  thinking  that  there  is 
something  significant  in  the  vastness  of 
this  Priesthood  congregation  that  we 
have  the  honor  of  addressing  tonight. 
You  have  already  been  told  by  the 
President  that  there  are  assembled  in 
96  different  places  groups  of  the  Priest- 
hood to  hear  the  messages  of  this 
evening,  stretched  all  the  way  across  this 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Second  Day 

Continent  from  Canada  on  the  north  to 
Mexico  on  the  south.  With  this  wide 
coverage  one  might  reasonably  ask  the 
question,  "Why  do  we  not  have  a  gen- 
eral broadcast  of  these  services?" 

I  think  that  this  most  unusual  situa- 
tion in  what  we  call  a  closed  circuit 
broadcast  consists  in  the  unique  char- 
acter of  the  Holy  Priesthood  which  we 
have  the  honor  to  represent.  This  great 
society  of  men  and  boys  living  in  differ- 
ent nations  of  the  earth  is  admittedly 
an  exclusive  society,  not  made  so,  how- 
ever, by  any  prohibitory  rules  and 
regulations  set  up  for  initiation  and 
membership  which  we  may  prescribe, 
but  made  so  by  the  Lord  himself.  He 
stands  at  the  head  of  this  great  order 
in  his  Kingdom.  He  it  is  who  has 
caused  his  delegated  power  and  the 
rights  of  membership  in  this  order  to 
come  to  us,  his  servants.  It  is  he  who 
has  made  provision  for  the  establish- 
ment of  this  vast  exclusive  society,  with 
his  chosen  High  Priest  at  its  head.  And 
thus  it  is  that  those  only  who  have  re- 
ceived and  accepted  their  divine  commis- 
sions are  entitled,  so  to  speak,  to  a  ticket 
to  this  great  meeting  which  is  held  to- 
night. You  do  not  have  to  pay  for  your 
admission  here,  or  in  any  of  the  as- 
semblies where  our  Priesthood  meet. 
You  are  invited  guests  of  the  President 
of  the  Church  tonight  to  a  very  select 
and  exclusive  assembly.  We  have  oc- 
casion to  feel  grateful  and  proud  that 
we  are  eligible  for  this  invitation. 

It  is  sometimes  thought  that  when 
things  become  widely  distributed  that 
they  are  common  and  cheap.  That  is 
not  so  with  the  Priesthood.  It  is  widely 
distributed  among  the  men  and  boys  of 
the  Church,  as  you  heard  from  the  re- 
ports read  today,  but  it  is  not  cheap.  It 
is  precious,  and  it  is  priceless,  and  the 
numbers  who  bear  it,  apportioned  among 
the  whole  population  of  the  world, 
make  it  very  rare  indeed.  I  one  time 
figured  out,  some  years  ago,  about  how 
many  that  would  be,  and  I  estimated 
that  there  would  be  one  member  of  the 
Priesthood  to  every  ten  thousand  per- 
sons in  the  world.  If  it  were  so  geo- 
graphically apportioned,  we  should  cer- 
tainly feel  that  we  had  a  rare  calling. 

The  potential  power  residing  in  the 
membership  of  this  great  assemblage  is 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


91 


so  vast  and  so  far-reaching  as  to  defy 
almost  any  attempt  to  measure  it.  Here 
among  these  men  of  God,  old  and  young 
alike,  is  a  fund  of  knowledge — "pure 
knowledge,"  the  revelations  call  it — es- 
sential and  vital  to  the  peace  and  hap- 
piness of  mankind.  Here  upon  this 
great  assembly  rests  the  obligation  by 
divine  command  to  disseminate  that 
"pure  knowledge"  among  all  the  Father's 
children.  In  the  men  gathered  in  this 
great  congregation  is  vested  the  right, 
the  power,  and  the  duty  to  establish  in 
verity  the  Kingdom  of  God,  to  set  up, 
to  man,  and  to  operate  the  organiza- 
tions and  agencies  comprised  within  the 
Kingdom,  with  the  express  duty  to  pre- 
pare the  Kingdom  for  transfer  to  the 
Savior  himself  when  he  shall  come,  as 
he  surely  will,  to  take  delivery  of  it. 

I  ask  you  to  pause  a  moment  in  the 
thought  of  this  awesome,  lofty  under- 
taking— to  prepare  the  Kingdom  for  de- 
livery to  the  Master.  I  said  you  were  an 
exclusive  society.  You  are,  because  no 
other  body  of  men  in  all  this  world  are 
authorized  and  equipped  to  make  that 
preparation  and  that  delivery  except 
yourselves.  Fortunately,  we  are  divinely 
organized  for  the  achievement  of  that 
herculean  task.  A  true  representative 
of  the  Master  stands  at  our  head  to  guide 
us  and  to  lead  us  in  this  great  endeavor. 
If  we  follow  his  leadership,  and  that  of 
his  associates,  and  adhere  to  the  coun- 
sels they  give,  we  shall  not  fail.  In 
preparing  the  Kingdom  for  delivery, 
however,  let  one  thing  never  be  for- 
gotten: our  preparation  of  the  Kingdom 
proceeds  no  faster  than  the  preparation 
of  ourselves  to  enter  into  the  presence  of 
our  Lord  and  partake  of  the  fruits  of 
obedience  and  righteousness. 

I  do  not  believe  that  the  Kingdom  can 
be  nurtured  in  any  degree  of  wicked- 
ness and  unrighteous  dominion.  We 
controvert  the  age-old  assertion  that  the 
Kingdom  has  been  preserved  over  the 
centuries  under  wicked  and  sinful  po- 
tentates and  a  perversion  of  the  pure 
laws  of  the  Christ,  who  was  and  is  the 
founder  of  the  Kingdom.  It  is  not  our 
practice,  my  brethren  of  the  Priesthood, 
to  cast  aspersion  on  others,  but  we  are 
constrained  by  the  truth  to  make  the 


assertion  I  just  made — that  the  Kingdom 
was  lost  and  is  now  restored.  To  pre- 
pare the  Kingdom  for  the  Master  is  the 
most  exalted  objective  that  I  can  think 
of  for  the  men  and  boys  of  the  Priest- 
hood of  the  Church  of  Christ.  It  com- 
prehends and  entails  unity  and  brother- 
hood, spirit  and  endeavor,  obedience  to 
law  and  counsel,  example — stimulating, 
worthy  example — as  a  premise  for  mis- 
sionary work  among  all  men,  wide  and 
effective  teaching  of  the  principles  and 
practices  of  the  Church,  loyalty — un- 
swerving loyalty — to  principle  and  to 
authority. 

When  the  Christ  comes  to  receive  his 
Kingdom,  whom  will  he  call  to  assist 
him  in  its  administration?  I  am  just 
as  convinced  as  I  am  that  I  stand  before 
you  tonight  that  he  will  first  call  upon 
you — his  Priesthood.  I  expect  him  to 
be  merciful  and  kind  to  all  the  good 
and  well-intentioned  of  the  world,  but 
I  know  he  will  respect  and  honor  the 
organization  he  has  caused  to  be  set  up 
and  the  man  whom  he  has  entrusted 
with  his  divine  power,  and  I  confidently 
expect  that  when  he  shall  personally 
take  charge  there  will  be  perpetuated 
without  great  change  the  organizations 
and  the  procedures  which  have  prevailed 
in  the  Kingdom  of  the  latter  days,  or- 
ganized under  the  revelations  of  God. 
If  any  word  of  mine  might  serve  to  en- 
large your  appreciation  and  your  vision 
of  the  precious  power  you  hold,  my  dear 
brethren,  I  would  be  grateful  indeed. 
I  have  complete  confidence,  without 
doubt  or  wavering,  in  the  account  we 
have  of  the  bestowal  of  the  holy  power 
which  we  bear,  and  in  its  authority  as 
descended  to  us  from  those  who  received 
it  from  heavenly  messengers. 

I  know  that  it  is  divine.  Respect  it. 
Honor  it,  my  brethren.  Use  it,  and 
employ  it  for  the  high  purposes  for  which 
the  Lord  gave  it.  Then  if  you  will  mag- 
nify it,  it  will  magnify  you,  and  make 
even  the  humblest  great  and  mighty  in 
the  sight  of  God  and  the  esteem  of  men. 

The  Lord  bless  you,  my  associates  in 
the  great  Priesthood  of  the  Living  God, 
I  humbly  ask  in  the  name  of  Jesus. 
Amen. 


92 

Saturday,  April  6 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 
PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


Second  Day 


THANK  YOU  BRETHREN  who  have  SO 
ably  discharged  your  duty  in  ascer- 
taining the  attendance  this  night  in 
97  houses  of  worship,  including  this 
Tabernacle.     It  is  complete. 

General  Priesthood  Conference, 
April  6,  1957 

Salt  Lake  Tabernacle  7,291 
Assembly  Hall,  Barratt 

Hall,  and  Grounds  3,294 

94  Groups  reporting    in  26,595 

Total  tonight  37,180 

That  is  the  largest  attendance  in  the 
history  of  the  Church! 

We  do  not  favor  taking  photographs 
in  our  meetings,  but  I  do  wish  that  we 
could  get  a  picture  of  this  assembly  to- 
night. All  who  can  see  it  as  we  from 
the  rostrum  will  never  forget  it.  If 
anybody  have  his  flashlight  camera,  he 
may  take  a  picture,  so  we  may  have  it 
enlarged. 

I  think  this  is  wonderful,  it  is  glori- 
ous! What  a  power  assembled  tonight 
in  97  groups,  men  of  the  Priesthood- 
men  of  God!  We  just  feel  in  our  hearts 
to  say,  "O  Father,"  as  Christ  pleaded 
with  Him,  "keep  us  one  as  thou,  Father, 
and  thy  Son  are  one."  Nothing  can 
stay  the  progress  of  the  kingdom  of  God 
as  long  as  this  mighty  army  of  Priest- 
hood will  keep  united. 

We  heard  tonight  from  two  released 
missionaries — presidents  from  missions. 
They  represented  all  mission  presidents 
tonight,  first,  in  their  ready  response  to 
the  call  that  came  to  them — one  a 
prominent  businessman,  another  a  pro- 
fessional man,  and  their  wives  with 
them.  So  have  all  other  mission  presi- 
dents. I  happen  to  know  some  of  the 
sacrifices  that  their  sweet  wives  have 
made  in  the  missions  represented.  So 
the  other  mission  presidents'  wives  make 
these  sacrifices.  Do  they  complain?  No. 
They  rejoice  in  the  opportunity.  Other 
mission  presidents  could  tell  us  of  in- 
teresting items  just  as  Brother  Romney 
and  Brother  Coombs  gave   us   tonight. 

The  world  does  not  realize  what  this 
missionary  work  in  the  Church  of  Jesus 


Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints  entails,  and 
what  a  mighty  contribution  the  mem- 
bers of  the  Priesthood  are  making  to 
make  it  a  success.  I,  too,  wish  that 
all  had  heard  that  program  last  evening. 
One  thing  they  realized  was  that  one 
of  the  influential  factors  in  missionary 
work  is  personal  contact,  that  is  one  of 
the  most  potent,  most  effective. 

And  so  it  is  in  the  field  of  activity  to 
which  I  wish  to  refer  in  a  few  words — 
our  ward  teaching. 

Especially  during  the  last  year,  I  have 
been  impressed  with  the  realization  that 
we  are  not  reaching  those  whom  the 
Lord  would  like  us  to  reach.  Now,  the 
ward  teachers  are  doing  an  excellent 
work.  They  visit  homes  regularly.  They 
have  their  lessons  prepared.  And  they 
make  their  report. 

Statistics  show  that  the  ward  teaching 
is  in  good  shape.  So  what  I  say  is.  not 
reflecting  upon  the  effort  that  is  made 
by  this  group  of  Priesthood.  But  tell 
me,  fellow  workers,  are  we  doing  all 
that  is  implied  by  the  Lord's  statement 
that  it  is  the  ward  teacher's  duty  to 
watch  over  the  Church  always? 

A  man  who  knows  about  the  ills  that 
befall  our  Government  because  of 
criminals  wrote  recently — -I  refer  to 
F.B.I.  Director  J.  Edgar  Hoover — about 
the  responsibility  of  parents.     He  said: 

"Criminals  are  not  born  with  a  stamp 
of  criminality  affixed  to  them.  They  are 
created  by  the  forces  and  influences  sur- 
rounding them.  Certainly  parental  in- 
fluence is  a  vital  element  in  determining 
the  direction  in  which  a  child  will  go. 
The  parent  who  fails  his  duty  by  neg- 
lecting to  provide  moral  training  and 
essential  consistent  discipline  in  the 
home  should  be  accountable  for  the 
delinquencies  which  emanate  from  that 
neglect.  I  firmly  believe  that  the  tide 
of  juvenile  crime  could  be  stemmed  if 
neglectful  parents  were  made  to  face 
legal  and  financial  responsibility  for  the 
criminal  acts  of  their  children. 

"I  am  convinced  that  parental  incom- 
petency, parental  indifference  are  at  the 
root  of  the  vast  majority  of  youthful 
behavior  problems. 

"Back  of  the  majority  of  cases  of 
juvenile  delinquency  lies,  in  some  form 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


93 


or  another,  the  abdication  of  parental 
responsibility;  broken  homes;  lack  of 
parental  supervision;  over-protective 
parents,  drunken  parents;  over-indulgent 
mother;  overly  strict  father;  parent  works 
nights;  poor  home  conditions;  parental 
neglect;  lack  of  religious  training;  no 
discipline;  depraved  home  environment. 
Nothing  is  sadder,  in  my  opinion,  than 
those  cases  in  which  children  lack  noth- 
ing in  material  things,  and  yet  parental 
irresponsibility  destroys  their  potential 
development  as  good  citizens."  (Pub- 
lished in  "The  Rotarian,"  October, 
1956.) 

One  cause  of  delinquency  he  names 
is  broken  homes.  I  appreciate  the  sta- 
tistics sent  me  every  month  by  the  Salt 
Lake  County  Sheriff  and  his  associates. 

1  brought  two  here  tonight  regarding 
broken  homes. 

In  November,  1956,  96  criminals  were 
fingerprinted;  4  women  among  them; 
23  repeaters.  In  December,  1956,  there 
were  95  fingerprinted;  6  women;  22  re- 
peaters. In  November,  among  those  96, 
60  were  from  broken  homes;  24,  in 
which  the  father  was  dead;  12,  the 
mother  was  dead;  22,  both   dead;  and 

2  were  divorced.  Among  the  95  in 
December,  1956,  56  broken  homes.  Note, 
it  is  over  half  of  the  people,  half  of  the 
criminals.  Father  was  dead  in  16  of 
the  homes;  mother  was  dead  in  10;  and 
in  25,  both  were  dead. 

Well  there  are  other  statistics,  but  I 
do  not  have  time  to  refer  to  them. 

Now,  it  is  the  duty  of  the  ward 
teacher  to  watch  over  the  Church  al- 
ways, to  be  with  and  to  strengthen. 

I  wish  we  could  see  tonight  how  many 
of  those  60  who  came  from  broken 
homes  were  on  the  list  of  the  ward 
teacher;  how  many  of  those  56  offenders 
last  December  from  broken  homes  were 
listed  by  the  ward  teacher.  Do  not  go 
away  with  the  idea  that  they  are  not 
members  of  the  Church.  The  Sheriff's 
report  gives  the  number  of  deacons, 
the  number  of  teachers,  the  number  of 
priests,  and  the  number  of  elders  among 
those  who  were  fingerprinted.  As  it  is 
the  duty  of  the  teacher  to  "watch  over 
the  Church  always"  every  one  of  the 
children  from  these  broken  homes 
(members  of  the  Church)  should  be  on 
the  ward  teachers'  list. 


I  have  a  case  in  mind  that  will  illus- 
trate: 

A  mother  died  and  left  a  large  family, 
none  of  whom  were  married,  and  a  lit- 
tle baby  boy.  The  father  was  quite  in- 
different. He  had  been  born  in  the 
Church.  We  all  felt  sorry  when  his 
wife  died  and  left  him  with  a  large 
family.  The  oldest  girl  took  care  of 
that  family  wonderfully  well.  They  are 
all  in  the  Church.  But  the  young  boy 
grew  up  and  did  not  attend  his  school 
until  winter  came,  and  then  he  left 
it  as  soon  as  spring  opened  up.  He  liked 
to  ride  horses  and  he  could  ride  the 
bucking  horse.  He  learned  to  shoot. 
Early  in  his  'teens  he  went  out  to  herd 
sheep,  and  he  made  money.  But  when 
he  came  back,  he  did  not  go  to  Sunday 
School,  he  did  not  go  to  M.I.A.  His 
interest  was  in  activity — a  life  of  ac- 
tivity. 

Well,  I  will  not  go  through  the  whole 
story.  He  was  skillful  in  herding,  rid- 
ing, shooting,  and  the  outdoor  life. 

I  have  referred  several  times  to  that 
rhyme  given  by  the  Presiding  Bishopric 
to  the  Aaronic  Quorums  about  the  boy 
who  stood  alone.  .  .  . 

The  boy  stood  at  the  crossroads  all 
alone, 

The  sunlight  in  his  face. 

He  had  no  thought  for  the  world  un- 
known, 

He  was  set  for  a  manly  race. 

But  the  roads  stretched  east  and  the 
roads  stretched  west, 

And  the  lad  knew  not  which  road  was 
best. 

So  he  chose  the  road  that  led  him  down, 

And  he  lost  the  race  and  the  victor's 
crown. 

He  was  caught  at  last  in  an  angry  snare, 

Because  no  one  stood  at  the  crossroads 
there 

To  show  him  the  better  road. 

That  is  just  what  this  boy  did.  While 
still  in  his  'teens,  he  entered  a  grocery 
store,  bought  something,  paid  with  a 
bill,  $10  or  $20,  and  a  dispute  arose 
about  the  change.  The  merchantman 
attempted  to  throw  him  out.  The  young 
boy  had  his  sixshooter  and  was  caught 
"at  last  in  an  angry  snare." 

Personally,  I  made  inquiry,  when  that 
boy    went   to  the    penitentiary,    as    to 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


94 

Sunday,  April  7 

whether  the  Sunday  School  teacher  had 
ever  visited  him.  No.  Nor  had  the 
Mutual  worker  nor  the  ward  teacher.  I 
do  not  know  that  they  could  have  won 
him.  I  think  they  could  have.  Per- 
sonal contact  would  have  won  that  boy. 

It  is  the  teacher's  duty  to  watch  over 
the  Church  always.  That  boy's  name 
should  have  been  on  some  teacher's 
list. 

So  it  is  with  these  60  people — let  us 
say  there  are  only  30 — half  of  these 
who  were  fingerprinted  belong  to  us — 
thirty  last  November,  were  from  broken 
homes. 

Ward  teachers,  when  you  go  home 
tonight,  make  a  complete  list  of  all  those 
in  your  district,  every  boy,  every  girl. 
You  may  not  go  to  a  broken  home,  you 
may  not  find  them  there.  Find  out 
where  they  are  and  reach  them.  God 
bless  you,  and  bless  us  all  as  we  watch 
over  the  Church  always. 

For  first,  Priesthood  means  service;  it 
is  not  given  just  as  an  honor.  I  con- 
gratulate you  and  commend  you  that 
you  are  worthy  to  receive  it,  but  it  is 
given  to  you  for  service,  and  you  act 
as  an  authorized  representative  of  our 


Third  Day 

Lord  Jesus  Christ  in  whatever  position 
you  may  be  assigned. 

God  bless  you  that  you  may  serve 
worthily,  I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus 
Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus 
will  now  sing  "The  Lord  Bless  you  and 
Keep  You,"  directed  by  Elder  Cornwall, 
after  which  Elder  I.  Haven  Barlow, 
president  of  the  Layton  Stake,  will  offer 
the  closing  prayer. 

We  thank  you,  Brother  Cornwall, 
and  you  members  of  the  Choir,  for  your 
inspirational  singing  tonight.  I  am 
glad  you  are  here  to  participate  in  the 
largest  Priesthood  meeting  ever  held  in 
the  Church,  and  your  services  have  con- 
tributed to  this  most  inspirational  meet- 
ing.      

The  Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus 
sang  "The  Lord  Bless  You  and  Keep 
You." 

President  I.  Haven  Barlow  of  the  Lay- 
ton  Stake  offered  the  closing  prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  until  Sunday 
morning  at  10:00  a.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
MORNING  MEETING 


(For  a  full  report  of  the  Church  of 
the  Air  and  Tabernacle  Choir  and  Or- 
gan Broadcast  see  pages  133-138. 

The  Sunday  morning  session  of  the 
Conference  convened  at  10  o'clock  a.m., 
April  7,  1957,  with  President  David  O. 
McKay  presiding  and  conducting  the 
services. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  was  pres- 
ent and  furnished  the  choral  music  for 
this  session  of  the  Conference. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  choir  singing  for  this  morning's 
session  will  be  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
with  J.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting 
and  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

We   shall   begin  these  services  with 


the  Tabernacle  Choir  singing  "Beauiful 
Zion  For  Me,"  by  Joseph  J.  Daynes,  J. 
Spencer  Cornwall  conducting.  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Elder 
George  S.  Haslam,  president  of  the 
North  Davis  Stake. 

We  shall  repeat  some  of  these  an- 
nouncements. We  thought  you  would 
like  to  hear  them  so  that  there  will  be 
no  confusion  between  the  conclusion 
of  the  broadcast  and  the  opening  of  this 
session. 

We  have  just  announced  the  radio 
stations  over  which  this  session  of  the 
127th  Annual  Conference  of  the  Church 
is  being  broadcast. 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  with  J.  Spen- 
cer Cornwall  conducting  and  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ,  will  now  sing, 
"Beautiful  Zion  For  Me,"  after  which 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


95 


Elder  George  S.  Haslam,  president  of 
the  North  Davis  Stake,  will  offer  the 
invocation. 

Selection  by  the  Choir,  "Beautiful 
Zion  For  Me,"  (Daynes). 

The  opening  prayer  was  offered  by 
President  George  S.  Haslam  of  the 
North  Davis  Stake. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  invocation  was  offered  by  Elder 
George    S.    Haslam,    president    of   the 


North  Davis  Stake.  The  Choir  will  now 
sing,  "Blessed  Jesu,"  following  which 
President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  will  address  us. 

An  anthem,  "Blessed  Jesu,"  was  sung 
by  the  Choir. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church  will  now 
address  us. 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 

First  Counselor  in  the  First  Presidency 


Ilay  aside  the  beautiful  lei  made  of 
baby  orchids,  presented  to  us  so  gra- 
ciously by  our  Hawaiian  sisters, 
while  I  speak,  fearing  too  sharp  a  con- 
trast between  the  brilliance  of  its  beauty, 
and  the  drabness  of  what  may  follow. 
(Laughter) 

My  brethren  and  sisters  and  friends, 
I  believe  that  most  families  or  parts  of 
families  to  whom  I  have  the  honor  of 
speaking  today  are  deeply  and  anxiously 
concerned  about  reports  that  reach  us 
constantly  regarding  the  waywardness 
of  youth.  I  can  think  of  no  milder  term 
than  waywardness  to  characterize  what 
I  have  in  mind.  You  know  of  many 
other  harsher  terms  more  frequently 
used,  and  I  do  not  say  without  justifica- 
tion. I  use  wayward  because  there  is  an 
element  in  the  term  which  deserves  our 
thoughtful  consideration.  The  word 
literally  means  taking  one's  own  way, 
and  the  connotation,  of  course,  is  in 
contravention  of,  or  at  variance  with, 
an  established  way  or  order. 

Is  there  an  established  way  or  order? 
Under  the  law  the  answer  must  be  yes — 
at  least  to  the  extent  that  the  law  covers 
the  ways  of  life.  The  Ten  Command- 
ments is  not  a  legal  document,  but  its 
principles  are  all  incorporated  into  the 
law  by  means  of  penalties  prescribed  for 
infraction  of  these  commandments,  at 
least  so  far  as  violations  of  the  com- 
mandments may  be  manifest  in  social 
behavior. 

Would  it  not  be  a  great  gain  in 
winning  respect  for  the  law  to  make  it 


more  clear  that  the  laws  of  the  land 
in  the  main  have  their  origin  in  divine 
pronouncements,  and  that  in  the  main 
they  win  approval  only  as  they  conform 
to  such  generally  accepted  standards  of 
morality  and  righteousness?  Is  that  not 
the  vital  distinction  between  democracy 
and  communism?  The  test  of  demo- 
cratic law  has  always  been,  and  will 
continue  to  be,  is  it  right  in  accordance 
with  revealed  principles  of  righteous- 
ness? The  test  of  communistic  law 
seems  to  be,  is  it  effective  in  the  main- 
tenance of  controls  superimposed  by 
arbitrary  authority?  It  seems  to  be  of 
no  concern  that  there  is  no  conformity 
to  divine  principles  of  human  conduct, 
and  no  recognition  of  divinity  as  well. 
Could  we  help  wayward  youth  if  we 
confronted  each  one  with  wayward  ten- 
dencies with  these  forthright  questions: 
"Are  you  a  communist  and  an  anar- 
chist? Is  it  your  purpose  to  overthrow 
the  government  and  forfeit  all  the  safe- 
guards, the  rights,  and  liberties  derived 
from  our  ancestors  who  fought  so  val- 
iantly and  made  so  many  sacrifices  for 
the  free  society  we  now  enjoy?  Are  you 
an  atheist?  Do  you  believe  there  is  no 
divine  source  of  right  and  wrong? 
Would  you  like  to  see  this  country  of 
ours,  and  other  peace-loving  democratic 
countries,  turned  over  to  communistic 
domination  and  dictatorship?  You 
should  know  that  vice  and  crime  in  suf- 
ficiently extended  proportions  can  do 
that  without  a  single  foreign  bomb  be- 
ing exploded  in  our  territory.    Vice  and 


96 

Sunday,  April  7 

crime  are  rebellion.  They  can  bring  on 
war  as  devastating  as  that  between 
states,  and  they  have  able  and  clever 
leadership,  for  their  general  is  the  fa- 
ther of  lies,  the  author  of  clever  seduc- 
tions and  enticements,  the  deceiver,  the 
adversary,  the  opponent  of  all  that  is 
good  and  virtuous.  That  leader  is 
Satan,  given  power  to  tempt  humanity 
in  mortality  that  they  may  develop  re- 
sistance and  strength.  They  who  follow 
his  lead,  though  they  may  think  them- 
selves tough,  are  weaklings  without  re- 
sistance. They  are  without  vision.  If 
they  had  vision,  they  could  see  and  un- 
derstand the  gravity  and  the  futility  of 
their  offenses,  and  they  would  be  able 
to  see  prison  walls  stronger  and  more 
impenetrable  than  those  built  of  steel 
and  concrete  which  will  separate  them 
from  all  the  finer  things  of  life — fam- 
ily, friends,  the  love  of  God  and  fel- 
low men." 

I  do  not  know  that  such  an  imaginary 
conversation  and  approach  would  have 
a  deterrent  effect  upon  those  with  way- 
ward tendencies.  I  do  believe,  how- 
ever, it  would  be  good  for  those  who 
ask  the  questions — fathers,  mothers, 
teachers,  and  other  guardians  of  youth. 
Such  questions  might  serve  to  set  in  the 
minds  of  all  some  fundamental  princi- 
ples concerning  respect  for  authority, 
loyalty,  and  duty.  Most  unfortunately 
there  are  many  young  folk  who  have  no 
one  to  ask  the  questions.  What  a  pityl 
May  the  Lord  bring  repentance  to  those 
parents  whose  selfishness,  whose  un- 
timely separations,  and  whose  misguided 
lives  have  inflicted  such  tragic  condi- 
tions on  their  offspring  and  on  society. 

I  think  it  is  a  mistake  for  those 
charged  with  the  custody  of  children  to 
lose  sight  of  or  abandon  the  principle 
of  reproof.  The  Lord  has  used  that 
principle  in  dealing  with  his  children 
during  all  the  time  of  which  we  have 
record,  and  he  has  never  given  us  any 
indication  that  it  should  be  abandoned. 
No  one  who  advocates  love  as  the  most 
important  and  potent  factor  in  parent 
and  teacher  and  child  relations  can  go 
too  far  to  suit  me,  but  let  it  never  be 
forgotten  that  reproof  may  be,  and  very 
often  is,  an  important  element  in  that 
loving  relationship. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  how  to  reprove. 
I  should  like  to  remind  my  brethren  and 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sisters,  and  tell  my  other  friends,  what 
he  has  said  about  it.  Before  I  do  so, 
however,  I  am  going  to  tell  you  of  an 
incident  which  occurred  on  a  ship  while 
I  was  returning  from  a  visit  to  South 
America  a  number  of  years  ago.  On 
this  voyage,  which  included  two  Sun- 
days, I  was  asked  by  those  representing 
the  captain  of  the  vessel  to  conduct  what 
were  called  "divine  services."  There 
was  no  one  on  board  of  our  own  faith 
to  whom  I  might  appeal  for  assistance. 
I  had  made  the  acquaintance  of  a  rather 
elderly  man  who  was  a  retired  minis- 
ter of  another  church,  so  I  asked  him 
if  he  would  participate  and  offer  pray- 
er. He  gave  a  very  beautiful  prayer  at 
one  of  the  services.  After  the  prayer  I 
engaged  him  in  conversation,  and 
among  other  things  we  spoke  of  the 
care  of  youth  and  family  responsibility. 
He  recited  an  impressive  incident  in 
his  own  experience.  He  said  that  while 
he  was  an  active  minister  there  was 
among  his  parishioners  a  very  lovely 
family.  They  had  a  promising  son  who 
married.  He  established  a  home  and 
began  to  have  his  own  family.  Most 
unfortunately,  however,  he  took  up  the 
habit  of  drinking,  and  within  a  com- 
paratively short  time  reached  the  stage 
where  he  might  be  classed  as  an  alco- 
holic. His  wife  and  his  family  were, 
of  course,  greatly  distressed.  They 
pleaded  with  him,  and  so  did  this  minis- 
ter, to  abandon  his  wayward  course, 
but  seemingly  to  no  avail. 

One  day  my  friend,  the  minister,  met 
this  young  man  coming  down  the 
street.  He  recognized  him  some  little 
distance  before  they  met.  The  young 
man  offered  his  hand  in  greeting,  but 
the  minister  rejected  the  offer,  and  he 
said,  in  substance,  to  the  young  man: 
"John,  I  rebuke  you,  and  in  the  author- 
ity of  my  ministry  I  command  you  to 
cease  the  terrible  practices  which  are 
ruining  your  home  and  bringing  such 
sorrow  to  your  loved  ones."  With  these 
words  the  minister  left  the  young  man, 
confused  and  shocked,  standing  on  the 
sidewalk.  My  friend  told  me  that  after 
he  had  gone  a  short  distance  he  was 
tempted  to  go  back  and  apologize.  He 
said  that  he  had  never  done  such  a 
thing  before,  and  he  could  not  under- 
stand how  he  had  come  to  speak  such 
seemingly    cruel   words   to    one   of   his 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


97 


friends  for  whom  he  felt  such  responsi- 
bility. 

When  he  had  finished  telling  me 
of  the  incident,  I  picked  up  a  volume 
which  I  had  with  me,  and  I  read  to  him 
these  words: 

"No  power  or  influence  can  or  ought 
to  be  maintained  by  virtue  of  the  priest- 
hood, only  by  persuasion,  by  long- 
suffering,  by  gentleness  and  meekness, 
and  by  love  unfeigned; 

"By  kindness,  and  pure  knowledge, 
which  shall  greatly  enlarge  the  soul 
without  hypocrisy,  and  without  guile — 

"Reproving  betimes  with  sharpness, 
when  moved  upon  by  the  Holy  Ghost; 
and  then  showing  forth  afterwards  an 
increase  of  love  toward  him  whom  thou 
hast  reproved,  lest  he  esteem  thee  to  be 
his  enemy; 

"That  he  may  know  that  thy  faithful- 
ness is  stronger  than  the  cords  of 
death."  (D  &  C  121:41-44.) 

"That's  it,  that's  it!"  the  old  minister 
said  to  me  excitedly.  "Where  did  you 
find  that?"  I  told  him  that  it  was  part 
of  a  revelation  concerning  the  nature 
of  the  Holy  Priesthood,  given  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  more  than  a 
hundred  years  before  this  conversation 
took  place.  The  minister  then  told  me 
that  after  he  had  given  the  rebuke  to 
the  young  man,  a  few  weeks  passed, 
and  the  man  came  to  him  and  thanked 
him,  and  said  to  him,  "All  the  pleading 
of  my  family  and  friends  made  me  sor- 
rowful but  did  not  bring  to  me  the 
courage  to  act.  That  rebuke  which  you 
gave  to  me  that  day  on  the  street  has 
given  me  a  strength  that  I  could  not 
acquire  before.  I  have  never  taken  a 
drink  since,  and  I  have  the  resolution 
and  the  faith  to  believe  that  I  never 
will  again." 

It  is  a  kindness  to  reprove  in  the 
spirit  of  love.  It  is  an  unkindness  to 
mitigate  the  gravity  of  offenses  in  those 
for  whose  guidance  and  direction  we 
have  responsibility. 

Next,  I  would  like  to  ask  this  ques- 
tion. Has  the  word  duty  come  to  have 
anything  in  the  nature  of  an  unpleasant 
reaction  on  the  part  of  those  under- 
taking to  lay  down  principles  for  the 
guidance  of  youth?  Sometimes  I  hear 
so  much  about  uninhibited  independ- 
ence of  action  and  free  development  of 
personality  that   it  makes  me  wonder 


if  the  concept  of  duty  has  gone  out  of 
the  picture.  Conformity  also  seems  to 
be  a  term  that  has  come  in  for  a  meas- 
ure of  odium.  The  only  place  where 
I  hear  duty  and  conformity  spoken  of 
with  great  acclaim  is  in  the  military 
establishments.  Everybody  there  seems 
to  be  most  exacting  without  toleration 
for  any  departure  or  insubordination, 
and  I  have  never  heard  of  reproof  there 
being  administered  in  any  such  way  as 
I  have  described.  I  suppose  it  would 
be  shocking  to  the  proponents  of  the 
so-called  individualistic  development 
theory  to  assert  or  assume  that  disci- 
pline is  just  as  necessary  for  the  success 
of  an  orderly  society  as  it  is  for  the  suc- 
cess of  armies  and  navies. 

Why  should  the  inculcation  of  the 
principle  of  duty  in  the  training  of 
youth  be  regarded  in  any  unfavorable 
light  whatsoever?  Do  we  obtain  anything 
of  worth  except  by  conformity  to  this 
principle?  It  is  true  that  the  concept 
of  duty  may  entail  some  self-denial,  but 
do  we  not  all  suffer  for  success,  in  the 
sense,  at  least,  that  we  discipline  our- 
selves to  the  conditions  of  success?  In 
athletics,  which  often  seem  so  important 
to  youth,  no  one  achieves  distinction 
except  by  conformity  to  training,  which 
is  duty,  and  to  the  governing  rules.  In 
business  the  same  is  true.  There  are 
governing  rules  and  principles  which 
must  be  observed.  Sometimes  men 
think  they  can  gamble  and  get  some- 
thing for  nothing,  but  in  the  end  they 
cannot  succeed  in  business  by  this 
method,  for  legitimate  business  is  built 
upon  the  principle  of  exchange  of 
values.  There  are  some  who  think  that 
in  professional  and  academic  life  the 
so-called  individualist  without  con- 
formity may  win  great  success  and 
distinction.  In  reality,  this  is  not  true, 
for  the  great  researchers  and  contribu- 
tors to  the  welfare  of  humanity  are 
generally  not  non-conformists — they  are 
expansionists — building  upon  the  knowl- 
edge already  acquired  for  the  extension 
of  principles  and  formulae  to  good 
purpose. 

I  hope  I  do  not  labor  this  point  too 
much,  but  when  I  hear  occasionally — 
not  often — of  teachers,  and  some  par- 
ents, too,  who  decry  the  old-fashioned 
concepts  of  conformity  and  duty,  and 
place    a    premium   on    non-conformity 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


98 

Sunday,  April  7 

without  its  alleged  abridgment  of  in- 
tellectual freedom,  I  cannot  help  feeling 
grave  concern  about  students  and  youth 
who  are  subjected  to  such  views  by 
those  whose  scholarly  attainments  they 
respect  and  admire.  I  wish  all  who 
project  such  teaching  might  find  a  way 
of  discovering  its  relation  to  deviations 
in  youth  which  so  much  plague  society 
today.  I  am  bold  enough  to  say, 
whether  it  be  wisdom  or  not,  that  any 
teacher  taking  advantage  of  the  prestige 
which  his  position  gives  him,  who  ad- 
vocates or  permits  the  impression  to  pre- 
vail that  the  traditional  standards  of 
morality  prevailing  in  the  good  homes 
of  his  students  are  not  binding  on  the 
individuals  who  make  up  his  class,  is 
untrue  to  both  his  constituency  and  his 
calling,  and  remembering  that  these 
moral  principles  and  standards  have 
been  incorporated  into  the  laws  of  the 
land,  it  may  not  be  going  too  far  to 
view  his  teaching  as  traitorous  to  the 
law  and  the  government  under  which 
he  operates. 

I  make  these  drastic  statements  not 
so  much  by  way  of  indictment,  because 
I  am  sure  there  are  very,  very  few  who 
would  intentionally  mislead  their  stu- 
dents, but  rather  by  way  of  caution 
against  a  philosophy  which  could 
greatly  add  to  this  waywardness  of 
youth. 

What  chances  do  we  take  when  we 
teach  our  youth  that  there  are  well- 
recognized  standards  of  morality  in- 
corporated into  the  very  structure  of 
the  law  of  the  land?  And  if  a  teacher 
has  the  mind  to  give  the  history  of  our 
institutions  and  our  laws,  is  it  objec- 
tionable to  tell  the  truth  about  the 
source  of  these  moral  concepts  and 
principles  which  have  come  down  to 
us?  Is  it  an  infringement  on  any  per- 
sonal liberty  to  reveal  the  fact  that  the 
Ten  Commandments  furnish  the  foun- 
dation and  basis  for  much  of  our  law? 
If  it  is  not  an  infringement,  why  should 
not  all  of  our  students  and  our  youth 
know  this?  I  think  it  would  greatly 
enhance  their  respect  for  the  laws  of 
our  land  and  bring  to  them  a  more 
clearly  defined  understanding  of  duty 
and  obligation  in  a  country  governed 
by  such  law.  They  ought  to  know  that 
they  cannot  enjoy  property,  money,  and 
all  the  advantages  they  bring  without 


Third  Day 

the  duty  to  protect  property  and  right- 
ful owners  in  the  possession  thereof. 
They  ought  to  know  that  they  cannot 
enjoy  personal  health  and  personal 
freedom  of  motion  without  the  corre- 
sponding duty  to  protect  from  assault 
and  molestation.  And  they  ought  to  be 
made  fully  aware  of  the  fact  that  there 
can  be  no  happy  homes,  no  contentment 
and  security  therein  without  the  duty 
of  everyone  to  preserve  the  sanctity  of 
the  home,  the  virtue  of  womanhood, 
and  manhood,  too.  He  who  would  dis- 
parage the  principle  of  duty,  the  con- 
trolling factor  in  our  living,  has  a  very 
narrow  and  constricted  view  of  the  pur- 
pose of  life  in  the  universe,  for  without 
hesitation  I  say:  Teach  duty,  require 
duty,  if  need  be,  in  children  to  bless 
their  lives  with  proper  understanding 
and  practices  essential  to  their  happi- 
ness. 

Now,  there  are  other  concepts  and 
principles  indispensable  to  happy  liv- 
ing in  a  good  society  which  are  not 
incorporated  as  such  into  the  laws  of 
the  land.  No  penalties  are  provided  for 
their  infraction.  The  Ten  Command- 
ments were  given  largely  by  way  of 
injunction:  "Thou  shalt  not.  .  .  ."  The 
Beatitudes  come  to  us  as  persuasion  and 
incentive.  They  are  not  negative,  but 
positive,  in  character.  All  who  believe 
in  the  standards  of  righteousness  and 
morality  set  up  by  the  Ten  Command- 
ments know  and  understand  that  the 
gracious  persuasion  of  the  Beatitudes 
and  other  of  the  Savior's  teachings 
furnish  the  highest  incentive  to  yield 
obedience  to  the  commandments  and 
attain  the  blessings  which  are  held  out 
as  a  reward  for  compliance.  It  is  es- 
sential that  this  be  made  clear  to  youth, 
that  they  may  understand  that  moral 
standards  and  principles  are  not  just 
prohibitive  and  negative  in  character, 
but  that  they  are  the  essential  founda- 
tion to  happiness  and  the  attainment  of 
joy.  If  they  could  once  be  persuaded 
that  there  is  no  enduring  happiness  in 
sin,  but  only  in  goodness,  the  battle 
would  be  won. 

I  know  that  a  great  effort  is  put  forth 
by  millions  of  good  people  to  hold  be- 
fore youth  the  advantages  and  the  last- 
ing values  emanating  from  the  teach- 
ings of  our  Lord.  I  rejoice  in  these 
efforts,  and  I  am  sure  that  unmeasured 


PRESIDENT  STEPHEN  L  RICHARDS 


99 


good  comes  from  them  to  countless  of 
our  Father's  children.  If  I  may  make 
any  contribution  whatever  to  this  great 
undertaking  of  persuasion  for  the  adop- 
tion of  the  Christian  principles  as  a  way 
of  life,  it  is  this:  to  make  clear  that 
the  kingdom  of  God  is  a  kingdom  of 
law;  that  the  governing  laws  are  of 
divine  origin;  that  they  are  eternally 
right  and  do  not  change — interpretations 
may  vary,  but  the  laws  are  eternal; 
that  infraction  of  the  law  is  sin  and 
draws  a  penalty.  We  know  of  the 
penalty  attached  to  the  breaking  of 
these  laws  when  they  are  incorporated 
in  the  laws  of  the  state.  We  have  not 
been  shown  the  exact  nature  of  the 
penalties  which  the  Lord  imposes,  but 
we  do  know  that  no  law  of  his  may  be 
broken  with  impunity. 

I  want  this  taught  to  youth  so  that 
they  may  comprehend  it.  It  is  their 
due  and  their  right  to  have  these  things 
given  to  them  without  dilution  or 
apology.  This  is  justice  and  mercy. 
Neither  shall  rob  the  other.  How  can 
it  be  a  kindness  to  any  youth  to  white- 
wash and  ameliorate  the  crime  and  the 
sin  of  stealing,  of  assault  to  bodily 
injure,  of  vandalism,  the  wanton  de- 
struction of  property,  of  malicious  scan- 
dal, of  lying  and  deceit,  and  perhaps 
the  greatest  of  all,  that  robbery  which 
steals  virtue  from  either  woman  or  man? 

Perhaps  at  this  point  I  should  tell 
those  not  of  the  Church  something  they 
may  not  know.  Within  our  society  the 
law  of  virtue  is  applicable  equally  to 
men  as  to  women,  and  all  are  taught 
that  it  is  better  to  lose  life  than  virtue. 
To  some  these  teachings  may  seem  ex- 
treme. We  believe  they  are  justified  and 
have  approval  of  the  Christ  whom  we 
follow. 

I  will  repeat  a  circumstance  which 
came  under  my  observation  some  years 
ago,  with  apologies  for  its  repetition  to 
those  who  have  heard  it.  I  presided 
over  a  conference  session  in  one  of  our 
older  meetinghouses  in  which  there 
was  a  relatively  small  balcony  in  the 
rear  of  the  chapel.  This  balcony  was 
filled  with  young  men  and  women  in 
their  teens.  I  called  upon  the  president 
of  the  stake  to  speak  at  the  conference. 
To  my  surprise,  and  I  think  to  the  sur- 
prise of  the  large  congregation  in  the 
body  of  the  house,  he  addressed  himself 


directly  and  exclusively  to  the  young 
people  in  the  gallery.  Looking  straight 
at  them,  he  said,  in  substance: 

"Young  people,  in  the  not  too  distant 
future,  nearly  every  one  of  you  will 
come  to  me  to  be  interviewed;  some  for 
advancement  in  the  priesthood — these 
will  be  young  men;  some  for  recom- 
mendations to  go  on  missions — these 
will  be  both  young  men  and  young 
women;  and  many  of  you  for  recom- 
mendations to  go  to  the  temple  for  mar- 
riage— both  men  and  women.  When 
you  come  to  me  for  interview  sepa- 
rately, I  will  ask  each  one  to  sit  down  in 
a  chair  directly  facing  me.  I  will  look 
each  one  squarely  in  the  eye,  and  this 
is  the  first  question  I  will  ask:  Are 
you  clean?  If  you  answer  yes,  you  will 
be  happy.  If  you  answer  no,  you  will 
be  sorry.  If  you  lie  to  me,  you  will  re- 
gret it  all  the  days  of  your  life." 

That  is  all  that  he  said  to  these  young 
people.  There  was  profound  silence.  I 
think  that  no  one  who  was  present  will 
ever  forget  the  occasion  and  the  im- 
pression made  on  these  young  men  and 
women.  I  think  that  this  man  did  not 
overemphasize  the  moral  principle 
which  he  impressed  on  these  young  peo- 
ple. May  it  not  be  that  when  we  come 
to  the  final  judgment,  as  all  of  us  will, 
that  may  be  the  first  question  pro- 
pounded for  each  of  us?    Are  you  clean? 

Washington  said  that  morality  and 
religion  were  the  firmest  props  of  gov- 
ernment. I  say  morality — private  mor- 
ality— is  indispensable  to  a  good  society 
founded  on  happy  homes  in  nations 
of  freedom.  One  of  the  disappoint- 
ments that  has  come  to  me  in  the 
observation  of  our  political  life  is  that 
all  too  frequently  our  citizens  are  prone 
to  tolerate  private  immorality  in  public 
office,  and  that  by  comity  neither  side 
will  accuse  the  other.  I  do  not  make 
this  indictment  general,  but  I  firmly 
believe  that  there  are  a  sufficient  num- 
ber of  cases  of  hypocritical  living  in 
public  affairs,  and  a  sufficient  number 
of  instances  of  infidelity  in  the  homes  of 
the  land,  exposed  and  unexposed,  as 
to  have  furnished  an  example  for  youth 
which  has  not  been  encouraging.  The 
need  of  the  hour  is  for  good  example  and 
good  teaching,  and  teaching  is  very 
difficult  without  the  fortification  of  ex- 
ample. 


100 

Sunday,  April  7 

You  may  have  observed  that  I  have 
not  used  the  term  delinquency.  I  chose 
waywardness  for  this  discussion,  because 
I  wanted  to  give  to  youth  the  benefit  of 
all  doubt  possible.  Wayward  youth 
has  gone  his  own  way,  in  large  measure 
because  he  has  not  adequately  been 
shown  the  right  way. 

I  humbly  pray  that  all  the  forces  at 
our  command,  the  home,  the  church, 
the  school,  the  government,  and  the 
exemplars  of  the  nation,  shall  all  com- 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

bine  to  show  wayward  youth  the  right 
way,  which  is  God's  way,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened  is 
President  Stephen  L  Richards  of  the 
First  Presidency  of  the  Church.  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris,  a  member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve,  will  now  ad- 
dress us. 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


MY  DEAR  BRETHREN  AND  SISTERS,  I  sin- 
cerely pray  that  the  Lord  will 
direct  me  to  say  that  which  I 
should  say  to  you  this  morning.  He 
has  blessed  us  through  this  great  con- 
ference from  the  inspired  and  power- 
ful address  of  President  McKay  through 
all  the  sessions.  I  sincerely  pray  that 
his  blessings  may  be  with  me,  that  that 
Spirit  shall  be  continued. 

This  is  fast  day  in  the  Church,  the 
regular  monthly  fast  day,  and  I  should 
like  to  dwell  with  you  for  a  few  mo- 
ments upon  its  importance  and  our 
relation  to  it. 

In  the  early  days  of  the  Church,  there 
were  urgent  needs  to  be  met,  and  so 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith,  who  had  a 
plea  made  him  from  Kirtland  for  help 
for  the  poor  and  the  needy,  told  the 
Saints  to  establish  a  fast  day.  Each 
month  it  was  to  be  observed,  and  they 
were  to  fast  for  the  day  and  bring  to 
the  one  in  charge  the  food  that  they 
would  have  consumed  so  that  it  might 
be  dispensed  to  the  poor. 

What  a  beautiful,  simple,  direct,  and 
inspired  provision  the  Lord  made 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith!  Peo- 
ple were  to  endure  hunger  and  not  par- 
take of  food  they  had  but  bring  that 
food  that  others  might  not  endure 
hunger. 

The  Lord  revealed  to  Isaiah  the  true 
observance  of  the  fast  day;  after  reject- 
ing the  methods  used  by  Israel  at  that 
time,  he  then  points  out  the  right  way 
that  the  day  should  be  observed. 


Is  not  this  the  fast  that  I  have  chosen? 
to  loose  the  bands  of  wickedness,  to  undo 
the  heavy  burdens,  and  to  let  the  oppressed 
go  free,  and  that  ye  break  every  yoke? 

Is  it  not  to  deal  thy  bread  to  the  hungry, 
and  that  you  bring  the  poor  that  are  cast 
out  to  thy  house?  when  thou  seest  the 
naked,  that  thou  cover  him;  and  that  thou 
hide  not  thyself  from  thine  own  flesh? 

Then  shall  the  light  break  forth  as  the 
morning,  and  thine  health  shall  spring 
forth  speedily:  and  thy  righteousness  shall 
go  before  thee;  the  glory  of  the  Lord  shall 
be  thy  reward. 

And  if  thou  draw  out  thy  soul  to  the 
hungry,  and  satisfy  the  afflicted  soul;  then 
shall  thy  light  rise  in  obscurity,  and  thy 
darkness  be  as  the  noon  day: 

And  the  Lord  shall  guide  thee  continually, 
and  satisfy  thy  soul  in  drought,  and  make 
fat  thy  bones:  and  thou  shalt  be  like  a 
watered  garden,  and  like  a  spring  of  water, 
whose  waters  fail  not.  (Isaiah  58:6-8,  10-11.) 

What  a  beautiful  description  of  a  day 
that  we  should  follow  once  a  month  for 
the  alleviation  of  suffering,  for  our  own 
spiritual  growth  and  development,  and 
to  carry  out  the  purposes  of  the  Lord 
that  there  shall  be  no  want,  no  suffering, 
but  every  attention  given  to  those  who 
are  afflicted  and  in  distress. 

I  was  told  the  other  day  (I  did  not 
learn  any  more  of  the  details)  that  a 
bishop  invited  some  of  the  members  of 
his  ward  to  a  banquet,  and  as  one  man 
had  his  plate  presented  to  him  there 
was  on  it  a  small  piece  of  meat  and  a 
small  piece  of  carrot.  I  do  not  know 
what  the  man's  impressions  were  or 
what  questions  arose  in  his  mind,  but 


ELDER  GEORGE  Q.  MORRIS 


101 


it  was  explained  to  him  that  that  repre- 
sented the  fast  offering  that  he  had  been 
giving  to  the  needy.  [Laughter.]  Now 
that  was  surely  a  very  realistic  way  of 
pointing  out  his  relation  to  the  fast  of- 
fering and  his  obligations.  And  it  re- 
minded me  of  a  sobering  statement  that 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith  made  at  the 
funeral  of  James  Adams  in  1843,  and 
refers  back  to  the  powerful  statement 
and  announcement  made  by  President 
McKay,  that  it  is  by  doing  the  will  of 
God  that  we  will  attain  salvation  and 
accomplish  his  purpose,  and  in  no 
other  way. 

Incidentally,  as  we  build  up  false 
hopes  on  something  else,  there  will  be 
a  time  of  terrible  awakening.  So  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  declared: 

If  men  will  acquire  salvation  they  have 
got  to  be  subject  before  they  leave  this 
world  to  certain  rules  and  principles  which 
were  fixed  by  an  unalterable  decree  before 
the  world  was. 

The  disappointment  of  hopes  and  of  ex- 
pectations at  the  resurrection  will  be  inde- 
scribably dreadful.   (DHC  6:50-51.) 

It  is  for  us  to  avoid  that  dreadful 
experience  that  he  refers  to  and  keep  the 
commandments  of  God  and  bring  to 
pass  the  purposes  of  the  Lord.  It  is 
not  only  that  we  do  not  obey  the  Lord 
as  far  as  we  personally  are  concerned, 
but  it  is  a  serious  sin  as  well  that  we 
frustrate  the  purposes  of  God,  at  least 
for  the  moment;  and  a  condition  that  he 
wishes  to  bring  to  pass  among  his  peo- 
ple for  the  alleviation  of  suffering,  for 
the  comforting  of  the  afflicted,  and  for 
the  strengthening  of  his  Church,  fails 
because  we  do  not  keep  his  command- 
ments. That  is  a  most  serious  thing. 
It  seems  to  me  that  we  must  take  it  into 
account.  The  first  is,  in  a  way,  personal, 
but  the  second  is  rejecting  God  and 
blocking  his  plans  and  his  purposes,  by 
which  he  means  to  bless   his    people. 

I  think  we  may  not  and  must  not  be 
casual  or  indifferent  regarding  this  fast 
day  which  is  so  common  among  us.  I 
am  sure  we  are  not  giving  it  the  thought 
that  it  deserves.  Many  people  seem  in- 
different. But  what  a  wonderful  thing 
it  would  be  if  the  stake  presidencies  and 
bishoprics  of  wards  and  presidents  of 
branches,  through  the  help  of  the  Lord, 
could  instruct  the   people   and   inspire 


them  all  so  that  they  would  give  in  full 
to  the  Lord  their  free-will  fast  offering. 
What  a  strength  and  power  it  would  be 
towards  the  bringing  to  pass  of  the 
purposes  of  God  among  his  people  and 
in  the  earth. 

And  the  way  to  do  that  is  simple,  if 
the  people  would  understand  and  accept 
this  principle  and  obey  it.  I  believe  it 
hinges  on  the  one  fact,  so  far  as  I  am 
concerned,  that  it  is  just  as  necessary 
to  pay  an  honest  fast  offering  as  it  is 
to  pay  an  honest  tithing. 

The  Lord  has  told  us  how  we  shall 
pay  our  tithing  and  we  are  able  to  pay 
it  properly  and  we  call  it  a  full  tithing. 
The  Lord  has  told  us  what  the  fast  of- 
fering shall  be,  that  it  shall  be  the 
equivalent  of  the  food  of  which  we  did 
not  partake. 

Great  strength  and  power  would  come 
to  us,  so  far  as  having  means  in  the 
Church  (and  the  Lord  says  he  wishes 
to  "have  meat  in  his  house")  to  accom- 
plish his  purposes.  Yesterday  we  were 
advised  that  we  are  approaching  a  mil- 
lion and  a  half  people.  Let  us  con- 
sider a  million  people  and  realize  that 
if  we  paid  a  full  and  honest  fast  offering, 
joyfully  and  gladly  before  the  Lord, 
there  would  come  into  the  hands  of  the 
servants  of  God  each  year,  paid  by  a 
million  people,  the  value  of  twenty- 
four  million  meals.  What  a  strength 
that  would  be  to  the  great  welfare 
movement,  what  a  spiritual  blessing 
would  come  to  all  of  the  Church,  for 
God  promises  great  blessings,  and  what 
means  would  be  in  hand  to  bring  about 
the  alleviation  of  the  suffering  and  the 
needs  of  the  people! 

This  thing  goes  right  to  the  heart  of 
the  gospel.  The  Lord  found  it  neces- 
sary to  charge  ancient  Israel  with  rob- 
bery, that  they  had  robbed  him  in  their 
tithes  and  their  offerings,  and  they  were 
under  a  curse,  but  he  said, 

.  .  .  prove  me  now  herewith,  saith  the 
Lord  of  hosts,  if  I  will  not  open  you  the 
windows  of  heaven,  and  pour  you  out  a 
blessing,  that  there  shall  not  be  room 
enough  to  receive  it.  (Mai.  3:10.) 

I  wish  to  read  some  of  his  words, 
just  a  few  short  selections,  to  emphasize 
the  need  of  obeying  the  law  of  the  fast 
and  giving  offerings  for  the  poor  and 
afflicted.      They    affect    our    salvation; 


102 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  7 

they  affect  the  forgiveness  of  our  sins; 
they  affect  our  souls  being  saved.  We 
will  not  be  saved,  our  prayers  will  not 
be  answered,  and  the  Lord  will  reject 
us  as  his  disciples  if  we  do  not  remem- 
ber the  poor  and  the  afflicted. 

These  are  his  words  directly  through 
his  prophets: 

Therefore,  if  any  man  shall  take  of  the 
abundance  which  I  have  made,  and  impart 
not  his  portion,  according  to  the  law  of  my 
gospel,  unto  the  poor  and  the  needy,  he 
shall,  with  the  wicked,  lift  up  his  eyes  in 
hell,  being  in  torment.  (D  &  C  104:18.) 

And  now,  for  the  sake  of  these  things 
which  I  have  spoken  unto  you — that  is,  for 
the  sake  of  retaining  a  remission  of  your 
sins  from  day  to  day,  that  ye  may  walk 
guiltless  before  God — 1  would  that  ye  should 
impart  of  your  substance  to  the  poor,  every 
man  according  to  that  which  he  hath,  such 
as  feeding  the  hungry,  clothing  the  naked, 
visiting  the  sick  and  administering  to  their 
relief,  both  spiritually  and  temporally,  ac- 
cording to  their  wants.  (Mosiah  4:26.) 

Yea,  and  when  you  do  not  cry  unto  the 
Lord,  let  your  hearts  be  full,  drawn  out  in 
prayer  unto  him  continually  for  your  wel- 
fare, and  also  for  the  welfare  of  those  who 
are  around  you. 

And  now  behold,  my  beloved  brethren, 
I  say  unto  you,  do  not  suppose  that  this  is 
all;  for  after  ye  have  done  all  these  things, 
if  ye  turn  away  the  needy,  and  the  naked, 
and  visit  not  the  sick  and  afflicted,  and 
impart  of  your  substance,  if  ye  have,  to 
those  who  stand  in  need — I  say  unto  you, 
if  ye  do  not   any  of  these  things,   behold, 


Third  Day 

your  prayer  is  vain,  and  availeth  you  noth- 
ing, and  ye  are  as  hypocrites  who  do  deny 
the  faith.  (Alma  34:27,  28.) 

Wo  unto  you  rich  men,  that  will  not  give 
your  substance  to  the  poor,  for  your  riches 
will  canker  your  souls;  and  this  shall  be 
your  lamentation  in  the  day  of  visitation, 
and  of  judgment,  and  of  indignation:  The 
harvest  is  past,  the  summer  is  ended,  and 
my  soul  is  not  saved!  (D  &  C  56:16.) 

And  remember  in  all  things  the  poor  and 
the  needy,  the  sick  and  the  afflicted,  for  he 
that  doeth  not  these  things,  the  same  is  not 
my  disciple.   (Ibid.,  52:40.) 

May  the  Lord  help  us  to  discharge  this 
great  obligation  in  gladness  and  in  joy, 
with  all  our  hearts,  I  humbly  pray,  in 
the  name  of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Choir  and  Congregation  will  now 
sing,  "O  Say,  What  is  Truth?"  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris  of  the  Council  of 
Twelve  has  just  concluded  speaking. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  sang  the 
hymn,  "O  Say,  What  Is  Truth?" 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  shall  now  hear  from  Elder  Hugh 
B.  Brown,  Assistant  to  the  Twelve,  who 
has  just  returned  from  an  assignment  by 
the  First  Presidency  to  officiate  at  the 
laying  of  the  cornerstone  of  the  New 
Zealand  Temple. 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


1  humbly  pray  that  I  may  have  the 
liberty  which  comes  from  the  pos- 
session of  the  Holy  Spirit  and  that 
your  prayers  and  mine  may  be  effective 
to  that  end. 

As  mentioned,  we  have  just  returned 
from  a  tour  of  the  missions  in  the  South 
Pacific,  and  we  are  sure  that  you  par- 
ents, friends,  and  relatives  of  the  mis- 
sionaries who  are  laboring  there  will 
be  interested  in  knowing  that  they  are 
well,  happy,  and  doing  a  wonderful 
work.  They  send  to  you  and  to  all 
members    of    the    Church    their    love, 


greetings,  and  gratitude.  We  met  575 
of  them  while  there,  held  meetings  with 
them,  listened  to  their  testimonies,  dis- 
cussed with  them  some  of  their  prob- 
lems, and  were  inspired  by  their  faith 
and  devotion. 

Everywhere  we  went  the  people  were 
living  in  the  afterglow  of  the  recent  visit 
of  President  David  O.  and  Sister  McKay. 
To  thousands  it  marked  the  pinnacle  of 
their  spiritual  experiences.  We  wish 
publicly  to  thank  him  and  his  counselors 
for  the  priceless  privilege  of  visiting  the 
wonderful  people  of  those  islands  and 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


103 


for  the  honor  of  attending  the  cere- 
mony of  the  laying  the  cornerstone  of 
the  New  Zealand  Temple. 

Two  other  names  are  immortal  among 
the  Polynesians.  Their  love  for  Elder 
and  Sister  Matthew  Cowley  borders  on 
devotion.  They  mention  their  names 
in  hushed  tones  and  sing  special  hymns 
written  in  remembrance  of  their  years 
of  loving  and  devoted  service. 

In  addition  to  these  regular  mis- 
sionaries, there  are  another  500  local 
labor  missionaries  and  120  Zion  labor 
supervisors  working  there  under  the  in- 
spired and  able  leadership  of  President 
Wendell  B.  Mendenhall. 

There  are  now  forty-one  chapels  under 
construction,  five  major  college  projects, 
four  mission  homes,  and  another  thirty 
chapels  will  be  under  construction  with- 
in the  year.  I  think  in  all  the  history 
of  the  Church  we  have  never  had  a 
more  inspiring  example  of  voluntary 
co-operative  effort  than  we  saw  in  the 
college  and  temple  projects  in  New 
Zealand  and  Hawaii.  Not  only  do  the 
missionaries  and  supervisors  work  on 
these  projects  without  pay — often  sing- 
ing as  they  work — but  most  of  them  are 
also  housed  and  fed  by  the  local  mem- 
bers of  the  Church.  A  representative  of 
the  press,  after  visiting  the  New  Zealand 
project,  expressed  amazement  and  said, 
"A  more  completely  unselfish  work  has 
never  come  to  my  attention." 

There  are  now  over  59,000  members 
of  the  Church  in  the  South  Pacific,  and 
as  we  traveled  among  them  we  were 
reminded  of  the  early  missionaries  who 
were  there  when  conditions  were  quite 
different.  We  thought  of  President 
Joseph  F.  Smith,  President  George  Q. 
Cannon,  of  my  own  grandfather,  James 
S.  Brown,  and  others,  who  endured  hard- 
ship and  privation  under  those  primitive 
conditions.  In  fact,  some  of  them  were 
in  danger  at  times  of  becoming  the 
chief  ingredient  for  an  old-fashioned 
stew.  They  were  mercifully  preserved 
from  that.  We  hope  that  they  who 
planted  those  early  seeds  are  sharing 
with  us  the  joy  of  a  wonderful  harvest. 
We  bring  you  then,  from  the  dignified, 
humble,  faithful  Polynesians  and  others 
in  the  South  Pacific,  who  covered  us 
with  love  and  leis,  their  "Aloha — Kiaora 
Koutou  Katoa,"  or  in  other  words, 
"Greetings,  and  God  bless  you." 


During  our  tour,  many  questions  were 
asked  concerning  the  Church  and  its 
activities.  The  one  most  frequently 
asked  was,  "Are  the  Mormons  Chris- 
tians, and  if  so,  how  does  the  Church 
differ  from  other  Christian  churches?" 
Now,  if  to  be  a  Christian  means  to  be- 
lieve that  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  the 
Son  of  God,  the  Redeemer  of  the  world, 
and  to  follow  his  teachings;  if  being  a 
Christian  means  to  live  or  try  to  live 
the  Christian  life  as  he  directed,  then 
we  answer  the  first  part  of  that  question 
with  a  categorical,  "Yes,  we  are  Chris- 
tians." 

The  answer  to  the  second  part  of  the 
question  is  a  complex  one  and  cannot 
be  given  in  a  short  address.  However, 
perhaps  some  of  our  nonmember  friends 
who  have  honored  us  with  their  pres- 
ence here  or  in  the  radio  and  television 
audiences  would  be  interested  in  a 
brief  reference  to  some  of  those  differ- 
ences. 

The  thirteen  Articles  of  Faith,  pub- 
lished by  the  Church  in  1842,  are 
roughly  the  equivalent  of  creeds  in  other 
religious  organizations.  Therein  is  set 
forth  a  concise  and  authoritative  state- 
ment on  the  teachings  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints.  Of 
course,  to  point  out  the  differences  be- 
tween these  "teachings  and  others  would 
require  an  analysis  and  discussion  far 
beyond  the  time  limits  of  this  occasion 
and  the  ability  of  the  speaker.  We  may, 
however,  refer  in  passing  to  some  of 
them.  It  is  worthy  of  note  and  doubt- 
less surprising  to  some  that  everything 
we  teach  or  practise  is  based  upon  and 
is  in  strict  harmony  with  the  King 
James  Version  of  the  Holy  Bible,  which 
we  accept  as  the  word  of  God. 

We  believe  in  other  scriptures  in 
addition  to  the  Holy  Bible;  scriptures 
that  were  produced  as  scriptures  have 
always  been  produced,  by,  as  Peter  said, 
"holy  men  of  God,  [who]  spake  as  they 
were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (II 
Peter  1:21.)  There  is  meticulous  agree- 
ment between  the  Book  of  Mormon  and 
the  Holy  Bible,  agreement  not  only  on 
basic  doctrine,  but  each  also  has  the 
same  central  theme,  viz:  predicting  the 
event,  recording  the  advent,  and  bear- 
ing witness  to  the  import  of  the  life  and 
mission  of  Jesus  the  Christ.  The  fact 
that  these  sacred  volumes  were  written 


104 

Sunday,  April  7 

on  different  hemispheres,  at  times  when 
there  was  no  intercommunication,  is  not 
only  evidence  of  divine  purpose  but 
also  indicates  inspired  authorship. 

The  Latter-day  Saints,  like  the  former- 
day  Saints,  believe  in  the  gifts  of  the 
Spirit  as  enumerated  by  the  Apostle 
Paul:  tongues,  prophecy,  revelation,  vi- 
sions, healings,  interpretation  of  tongues, 
etc.  (See  I  Cor.  12:7-10.) 

We  believe  that  these  gifts  as  en- 
joyed now  are  part  of  the  blessings  that 
have  come  through  the  restoration  of  the 
gospel.  We  realize  that  when  we  say 
they  have  been  restored  to  the  Church 
it  implies  they  were  taken  away  or  were 
no  longer  enjoyed.  History,  both  pro- 
fane and  sacred,  confirms  that  fact. 
Many  candid  and  devout  Christian 
writers  assert  and  deplore  the  loss  of 
these  gifts  and  agree  with  John  Wesley 
that  they  were  not  enjoyed  beyond  the 
second  or  third  century  and  were  seldom 
known  after  "that  fatal  period  when  the 
emperor,  Constantine,  claimed  to  be 
a  Christian." 

Our  observance  of  the  Word  of  Wis- 
dom, God's  law  of  health,  is  distinctive 
and  is  a  physical  and  spiritual  blessing 
to  the  people.  Reference  has  been  made 
in  this  conference  to  the  awful  price 
the  world  is  paying  for  the  use  of  things 
which  God  has  said  are  not  good  for 
man. 

We  practise  the  law  of  tithing  as  it 
was  taught  and  practised  anciently,  and, 
being  the  Lord's  financial  law,  we  find 
it  superior  to  any  man-made  economic 
system.  Fast  offerings,  the  welfare  pro- 
gram as  administered  by  the  priesthood, 
the  Relief  Society,  and  other  agencies 
are  an  extension  of  the  Church's  eco- 
nomic policy,  always  having  in  mind 
the  physical  as  well  as  the  spiritual 
well-being  of  the  people. 

Some  complain  that  we  are  too  mate- 
rialistic, that  our  teachings  lack  spiritual 
emphasis;  they  say  we  should  keep  the 
spiritual  life  free  from  contamination 
with  the  material,  which,  according  to 
them,  is  gross  and  evil.  But  we  are 
reminded  that  man's  body  was  made  in 
the  image  of  God,  from  the  dust  of  the 
earth.  That  the  Savior  did  not  consider 
earthly  substances  as  evil  is  evidenced 
by  the  fact  that  he  was  baptized  in  the 
earthly  element  of  water  and  pointed 
to  such  baptism  as  the  gateway  to  his 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

kingdom  to  all  who  would  follow  him. 
Furthermore,  he  taught  the  deepest 
truths  about  the  human  spirit  by  refer- 
ence to  common  material  things,  such 
as  the  birds  of  the  air,  the  lilies  of  the 
field,  sheep  and  shepherds,  and  farmers 
sowing  seed.  He  chose  humble  fisher- 
men for  his  disciples  and  not  only 
taught  them  to  become  fishers  of  men 
but  also  gave  them  a  lesson  in  fishing 
for  fish.  He  and  his  apostles  spent 
much  of  their  time  ministering  to  the 
poor,  healing  the  sick,  moving  among 
the  common  people  as  they  were  en- 
gaged in  the  mundane  affairs  of  life, 
mending  the  bodies  as  well  as  the  souls 
of  men. 

We  believe  that  religion  should  touch 
the  lives  of  men  redemptively  here  and 
now,  at  every  point  of  human  experi- 
ence, that  matter  is  not  essentially  evil 
but  that  its  purpose  is  to  serve  spirit, 
while  spirit  controls  and  glorifies  mat- 
ter. There  is  a  beneficent  and  eternal 
relationship  between  spirit  and  element. 
The  Lord,  speaking  through  the  Prophet 
Joseph  Smith,  declared, 

For  man  is  spirit.  The  elements  are 
eternal,  and  spirit  and  element,  inseparably 
connected,  receive  a  fulness  of  joy; 

And  when  separated,  man  cannot  re- 
ceive a  fulness  of  joy. 

The  elements  are  the  tabernacle  of  God; 
Yea,  man  is  the  tabernacle  of  God,  even 
temples;  .  .  .  (D  &  C  93:33-35.) 

We  believe  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ 
must  be  preached  to  all  the  world,  and 
to  this  end  we  have  a  great  and  unique 
missionary  system.  Young  men  and 
women  are  called,  thousands  of  them 
each  year,  to  spend  two  or  three  years 
of  their  life  in  missionary  service,  at 
their  own  expense.  They  are  willing 
to  interrupt  their  education,  postpone 
their  marriage,  or  give  up  their  employ- 
ment in  order  to  perform  this  service. 
As  we  heard  yesterday,  there  are  now 
13,000  of  them  at  home  and  abroad, 
in  various  phases  of  missionary  activity. 
These  young  people  are  instructed  that 
they  are  not  to  attack  or  cast  any  as- 
persions on  other  churches  but  to  respect 
every  man's  right  to  worship  God  as  he 
may  see  fit. 

The  organization,  government,  and 
discipline  of  the  Church  have  attracted 
wide    and    favorable    attention.      The 


ELDER  HUGH  B.  BROWN 


105 


Church  bestows  the  priesthood  upon  all 
worthy  male  members  over  twelve  years 
of  age.  With  a  total  membership  of 
fewer  than  a  million  and  a  half,  we  have 
372,530  men  and  boys  who  hold  some 
office  in  the  priesthood.  This  means  a 
sharing  of  authority  and  responsibility 
and  results  in  widespread  interest  and 
activity.  Last  night,  for  instance,  a  gen- 
eral priesthood  meeting  of  the  Church 
was  held  in  this  tabernacle  and  the  pro- 
ceedings carried  by  closed  circuit  radio 
to  groups  in  ninety-six  chapels  in  sur- 
rounding cities  and  states,  where  a 
total  of  37,180  men  holding  the  priest- 
hood received  instructions  from  the 
leaders  of  the  Church. 

So  we  might  go  on,  far  beyond  the 
limits  of  time  here,  in  simply  listing  the 
distinctive  teachings  of  the  Church.  But 
there  is  one  basic  and  fundamental 
difference  to  which  we  call  attention 
for  a  moment,  namely,  the  doctrine  of 
Deity.  On  this  transcendently  impor- 
tant subject  we  take  sharp  but  friendly 
issue  with  the  creeds  of  men,  and  we  are 
willing  to  rest  our  case  upon  biblical 
precedents  and  divine  revelation.  We 
worship  the  God  of  Abraham,  Isaac,  and 
Jacob,  the  Jehovah  of  the  Old  Testa- 
ment. We  believe  that  Jesus  of  Nazareth 
is  the  Son  of  God  and  the  Messiah  who 
was  expected  through  the  centuries  but 
rejected  when  he  came.  / 

We  believe  that  the  Godhead  con- 
sists of  the  Father,  the  Son,  and  the 
Holy  Ghost,  generally  known  as  the 
Holy  Trinity,  but  we  believe  that  they 
are  separate  and  distinct  Personages, 
that  the  Father  and  the  Son  are  per- 
sonal and  material  and  increasingly  com- 
prehensible as  men  progress  and  gain 
understanding;  that  the  Father  and  Son 
have  bodies  composed  of  parts  and 
possessed  of  feelings;  that  the  Holy 
Ghost  is  a  Personage  of  Spirit. 

If  Jesus  of  Nazareth  was  and  is  God, 
as  John  the  Beloved  and  others  de- 
clared him  to  be  (See  John  1:1-3),  then 
God  must  be  personal  and  material.  It 
was  not  an  incomprehensible,  immate- 
rial essence  that  came  forth  from  the 
tomb,  but  the  glorified,  resurrected  body 
of  Jesus  the  Christ;  it  was  a  body  of 
flesh  and  bone,  as  he  himself  declared, 
and  as  Thomas  was  called  upon  to 
verify  by  touch  as  well  as  sight.  It  was 
this  body  which  ascended  into  heaven 


in  the  presence  of  the  amazed  disciples. 
It  was  this  body  which  the  attending 
angels  declared  should  come  again  when 
they  said, 

Ye  men  of  Galilee,  why  stand  ye  gazing 
up  into  heaven?  this  same  Jesus,  which 
is  taken  up  from  you  into  heaven,  shall  so 
come  in  like  manner  as  ye  have  seen  him 
go  into  heaven.   (Acts  1:11.) 

When  Jesus  came  and  revealed  God 
to  men,  he  held  up  to  them  a  personal, 
living  ideal  and  exhorted  them  to  be- 
come perfect,  even  as  his  Father  is  per- 
fect. The  value  of  having  an  ideal  is 
that  it  inspires  emulation.  We  seek  to 
become  like  that  which  we  adore. 
Surely  no  one  aspires  to  become  diffused, 
immaterial  essence,  devoid  of  body, 
parts,  or  feeling  and  without  center  or 
circumference.  Faith  that  a  living,  per- 
sonal God  is  the  Father  of  the  human 
spirit  encourages  men  to  push  back  their 
horizons,  to  look  up  instead  of  down 
for  their  source.  It  enlarges  their  vista 
and  life  takes  on  new  interest  and  new 
meaning.  It  encourages  men  to  live 
more  abundantly,  and  he  said  this  was 
one  purpose  of  his  coming. 

Because  the  Father  called  us  sons  and 
the  Savior  called  us  brothers,  we  posit 
for  man  an  exalted  Godlike  status  with 
almost  limitless  possibilities.  This  God- 
image  quality  in  man,  which  is  the  root 
of  his  dignity,  gives  deeper  meaning  and 
a  higher  purpose  to  life,  establishes 
faith  and  fortitude,  and  supplies  the 
necessary  valor  to  realize  the  vision  with- 
out which  people  perish.  It  renews 
man's  determination  to  pursue  the 
eternal  quest  for  answers  to  the  whence 
and  why  and  whither  of  life. 

Again,  if  God  is  not  comprehensible, 
then  man's  salvation  is  impossible,  for 
Jesus   said, 

And  this  is  life  eternal,  that  they  might 
know  thee  the  only  true  God,  and  Jesus 
Christ  whom  thou  hast  sent.  (John  17:3.) 

If,  therefore,  we  cannot  know  him, 
then  we  cannot  have  life  eternal,  and 
if  this  be  so,  then  the  whole  plan  of 
salvation  fails,  the  doctrine  of  the  atone- 
ment is  false  and  meaningless,  and  men 
are  left  in  Dante's  deepest  hell,  "desir- 
ing without  hope."  We  agree  with 
Milton   that  "the  end  of  all  learning 


106 

Sunday,  April  7 

is  to  know  God  and  out  of  that  knowl- 
edge to  love  and  emulate  Him." 

Unfortunately,  in  the  minds  of  many 
religious  people  the  term  God  is  am- 
biguous. But  there  was  nothing  ambigu- 
ous about  the  Hebrew  prophets'  concept 
of  Jehovah.  To  them  he  was  a  living 
God  with  whom  Moses  and  others 
talked.  Certainly  there  was  nothing 
mysterious  or  hard  to  understand  in 
Christ's  revelation  of  his  Father.  He 
said,  "he  who  hath  seen  me  hath  seen 
the  Father."  We  believe  in  a  living 
God,  a  conscious,  sentient,  intelligent 
Being  with  whom  we  associate  the 
highest  attributes  of  personality  in  their 
fullest  development. 

If  this  claim  of  a  restoration  be  true, 
then  we  should  expect  the  pristine 
Church  to  be  a  prototype  of  the  restored 
Church,  for  not  only  he  but  also  his 
teachings  are  the  same,  yesterday,  to- 
day, and  forever.  It  follows  then  that 
to  outline  and  delineate  the  difference 
between  the  restored  Church  and  other 
churches,  one  needs  only  to  become 
familiar  with  the  Church  as  it  was  or- 
ganized by  Christ  and  his  apostles  in 
the  Meridian  of  Time  and  then  com- 
pare the  churches  of  modern  times  with 
that  pristine  Church.  Whatever  dif- 
ferences appear  they  are  the  differences 
between  the  churches  of  men  and  the 
restored  Church  of  Jesus  Christ. 

Also,  our  faith  in  the  materiality  and 
separate  individualities  of  the  Father 
and  the  Son  sustains  faith  in  the  doc- 
trine of  the  second  coming  of  Christ, 
when  he  shall  reign  during  the  mil- 
lennium and  we  shall  have  a  thousand 
years  of  peace.  The  prophets  of  old 
predicted  his  second  coming  in  no  un- 
certain or  mystical  terms.  We  refer  to 
Job,  Psalms,  Isaiah,  Joel,  Zachariah, 
Malachi,  and  others.  He  himself  prom- 
ised that  he  would  come  in  the  glory 
of  the  Father  with  his  angels.  We  read 
in  Matthew, 

When  the  Son  of  man  shall  come  in  his 
glory,  and  all  the  holy  angels  with  him, 
then  shall  he  sit  upon  the  throne  of  his 
glory: 

And  before  him  shall  be  gathered  all 
nations;  and  he  shall  separate  them  one 
from  another,  as  a  shepherd  divideth  his 
sheep  from  the  goats:  (Matt.  25:31-32.) 

Paul,  in  writing  to  the  Thessalonians, 
said, 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

For  the  Lord  himself  shall  descend  from 
heaven  with  a  shout,  with  the  voice  of  the 
archangel,  and  with  the  trump  of  God: 
and  the  dead  in  Christ  shall  rise  first: 
(I  Thess.  4:16.) 

We  bear  witness  to  the  restoration  of 
the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  We 
bear  witness  that  the  Church  has  been 
organized  and  that  it  like  its  prototype, 
the  primitive  Church,  is  built  upon  the 
foundation  of  apostles  and  prophets, 
Jesus  Christ  himself  being  the  chief 
cornerstone.  Through  this  restoration 
men  have  been  given  the  right  to  speak 
and  act  in  the  name  of  God  as  an- 
ciently, and  through  the  endowment 
and  employment  of  these  gifts  among 
men,  the  truth  has  been  restored,  and 
we  humbly  proclaim  it. 

Time  will  not  permit  even  the  men- 
tion of  other,  and  there  are  many  other, 
differences,  but  we  repeat,  we  are 
Christians;  we  believe  in  the  Holy 
Trinity,  Father,  Son,  and  Holy  Ghost, 
in  the  holy  scriptures,  ancient  and 
modern;  we  believe  in  the  doctrine  of 
the  second  coming  of  the  Christ,  and 
we  believe  that  when  he  comes  he  will 
be  as  the  Bible  has  promised,  a  glorified, 
resurrected  Being,  whose  feet  shall  stand 
upon  the  Mount  of  Olives.  We  look 
forward  to  that  coming  and  pray  that 
God  will  help  us  and  all  men  to  prepare 
for  it,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Hugh  B.  Brown,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  completed  his  ad- 
dress. Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant 
to  the  Twelve,  will  please  come  for- 
ward. 

We  received  a  telegram  that  a  plane 
load  of  Servicemen  and  Air  Force  offi- 
cials flying  in  from  Ellington  Air  Force 
Base  at  Houston,  Texas  developed  en- 
gine trouble  near  Denver,  and  had  to 
return.  The  fact  that  they  have  sent 
this  telegram  shows  that  they  returned 
in  safety.  They  express  their  disap- 
pointment and  send  love.  We  are  thank- 
ful that  they  returned  in  safety.  The 
Lord  bless  them. 

Elder  Sill  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve. 


107 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 

Assistant  to  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Each  year  on  the  second  Sunday  in 
May  we  set  aside  a  very  special  day 
which  we  call  Mother's  Day.  This 
is  a  day  for  honoring  our  mothers,  and 
is  traditionally  a  day  of  family  unity 
and  happiness.  On  this  day  we  put  on 
our  best  clothes  and  perform  our  most 
thoughtful  acts  to  honor  and  please  our 
mothers. 

Two  days  ago  was  a  kind  of  special 
Mother's  Day  to  me,  inasmuch  as  it 
was  my  mother's  birthday,  and  though 
she  has  long  since  departed  this  life,  I 
am  very  grateful  for  the  privilege  which 
is  mine  to  remember  and  honor  her. 

Closely  associated  with  Mother's  Day, 
we  set  aside  another  special  day  on  the 
third  Sunday  in  June  which  we  call 
Father's  Day.  The  importance  of  both 
of  these  great  days  was  given  divine  em- 
phasis and  approval  some  3,400  years 
ago  when  God  descended  in  fire  upon 
Mt.  Sinai,  and  to  the  accompaniment  of 
lightnings  and  thunders,  said — 

Honour  thy  father  and  thy  mother.  .  .  . 
(Ex.  20:12.) 

As  I  understand  it,  the  observance  of 
this  commandment  brings  more  benefit 
to  the  children  than  to  the  parents,  for 
when  we  honor  an  ideal,  our  lives  are 
uplifted  by  it.  It  has  been  said  that 
"the  sins  of  the  fathers  are  visited  upon 
the  children,"  but  that  may  also  apply 
to  their  virtues;  for,  as  the  poet  said— 

When  the  high  heart  we  magnify 
And  the  sure  vision  celebrate 
And  worship  greatness  passing  by, 
Ourselves  are  great. 

In  President  McKay's  great  book  Gos- 
pel Ideals,  he  said,  "The  other  night  I 
dreamed  about  my  mother."  And  then 
he  said,  "I  would  like  to  dream  about 
my  mother  more  often."  That  is,  in 
his  dream,  his  mind  went  back  and 
relived  those  important  experiences  when 
he  learned  from  his  mother  the  lessons 
of  life  that  helped  to  prepare  him  for 
his  present  high  place  in  the  world. 
Each  time  we  relive  some  sacred  expe- 
rience, that  experience  is  renewed  in 
vitality,  and  we  are  able  to  reabsorb  the 
original  good. 


It  was  while  trying  to  relive  my  own 
mother's  devotion  on  her  birthday,  that 
I  selected  the  title  for  what  I  would 
like  to  say  to  you  this  morning.  The 
title  that  I  think  would  please  her 
most  is  "Father's  Day."  And  I  don't 
mean  the  Father's  Day  that  comes  on 
the  third  Sunday  in  June.  I  mean  the 
Father's  Day  that  comes  on  the  first  day 
of  each  week,  when  we  try  to  honor  and 
please  our  Heavenly  Father. 

The  Apostle  Paul  has  reminded  us 
that 

...  we  have  had  fathers  of  our  flesh  which 
corrected  us,  and  we  gave  them  reverence: 
shall  we  not  much  rather  be  in  subjection 
unto  the  Father  of  spirits  and  live?  (Heb. 
12:9.) 

The  relative  importance  of  this  great 
day  that  we  call  the  Sabbath  might  be 
indicated  to  us  by  the  frequency  of  its 
reoccurrence.  That  is,  we  have  one  day 
to  honor  Washington,  one  day  to  honor 
Lincoln,  one  day  for  Thanksgiving,  one 
day  for  our  nation's  birthday.  And  then 
our  Father  in  heaven,  in  his  wisdom, 
has  set  aside  one-seventh  of  all  of  the 
days  to  honor  God.  This  day  is  also  set 
aside  primarily  for  our  benefit.  When 
one  honors  a  wonderful  mother,  he 
tends  to  make  her  standards  his  own, 
and  when  one  honors  God  he  tends  to 
become  like  God,  and  thereby  helps  to 
bring  about  his  own  eternal  exaltation. 

These  fifty-two  Father's  Days  have 
also  come  down  to  us  from  that  awe-in- 
spiring day  on  Sinai  thirty-four  cen- 
turies ago  when  out  of  the  fire  God 
said — 

Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it 
holy.  (Ex.  20:8.) 

In  fact,  it  has  been  thought  that  our 
civilization  could  never  have  survived 
for  half  a  century  if  it  had  not  been 
for  this  one  day  in  seven  that  we  call 
Sunday.  This  is  the  day  when  we  try 
to  reach  a  pinnacle  in  our  lives  by  liv- 
ing at  our  best.  This  is  the  day  when 
we  pay  particular  attention  to  the  wash- 
ing of  our  bodies.  This  is  the  day  when 
we  put  on  our  best  clothes  and  think 
our   best  thoughts   and  read   our   best 


108 

Sunday,  April  7 

books.  This  is  the  day  when  we  asso- 
ciate with  the  people  we  love  the  most. 
This  is  the  day  for  which  we  usually  re- 
ierve  the  best  meal  of  the  week.  This 
is  the  day  when  we  lay  aside  the  cares 
that  usually  concern  us  during  the  oth- 
er six  days  while  we  go  to  the  house  of 
prayer  and  let  our  minds  reach  upward 
to  try  to  understand  the  things  of  God 
and  eternity.  This  is  the  special  day 
when  we  worship  God,  and  honor  Him 
in  our  lives.  The  proper  observance 
of  the  Sabbath  is  the  process  by  which 
we  put  our  lives  in  harmony  with 
Deity. 

Because  President  McKay  has  loved 
his  mother  and  tried  to  please  her,  she 
has  been  enabled  to  help  guide  and  en- 
rich his  life.  And  because  President 
McKay  has  honored  and  loved  his 
Heavenly  Father,  God  has  been  able  to 
magnify  him  and  make  him  great. 

One  thing  that  greatly  disturbs  me  as 
I  go  around  a  little  bit  is  the  con- 
sciousness of  the  great  number  of  people 
who  are  losing  their  opportunities  and 
their  blessings  by  the  misuse  of  the 
Sabbath  day.  All  of  our  lives  we  have 
heard  of  the  great  wonders  that  can  be 
accomplished  by  even  fifteen  minutes  a 
day  devoted  to  well-directed  study  and 
concentrated  thought.  We  know  of 
many  who  have  raised  themselves  to 
great  heights  of  achievement  by  this 
simple  means.  But  think  how  wonder- 
fully we  can  upgrade  our  spirituality 
by  making  effective  use  of  "The  Lord's 
Day,"  which  he  has  set  aside  especially 
to  enrich  our  lives. 

Alexander  Hamilton  once  gave  the 
secret  of  his  extraordinary  success  and 
we  can  apply  his  formula  to  the  ob- 
servance of  the  Sabbath  day.  Mr.  Ham- 
ilton said:  "Men  give  me  some  credit 
for  genius.  But  all  the  genius  I  have 
lies  in  this.  When  I  have  a  subject  in 
mind  I  study  it  profoundly.  Day  and 
night  it  is  before  me.  I  explore  it  in 
all  its  bearings.  My  mind  becomes 
pervaded  with  it.  The  result  is  what 
some  men  call  the  fruits  of  genius, 
whereas  it  is  in  reality  the  fruits  of 
study  and  labor." 

It  is  a  thrilling  idea  to  think  of  the 
possibility  of  becoming  a  "genius"  in 
the  things  of  the  spirit,  a  "genius"  in 
the  work  of  the  Lord.  This  can  actually 
be  brought  about  by  devoting  our  minds 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

and  our  hearts  to  the  important  con- 
siderations for  which  this  one  day  in 
seven  was  set  aside. 

It  is  still  true  that,  "As  a  man  thinketh 
in  his  heart,  so  is  he."  Everything 
starts  from  that  one  beginning. 

Mind  is  the  master  power 

That  molds  and  makes, 

And  man  is  mind. 

And  evermore  he  takes  the  tools  of  thought 

And  fashions  what  he  wills, 

Bringing  forth  a  thousand  joys,  a  thousand 

ills. 
He  thinks  in  secret,   and  it  comes  to  pass 
Environment  is  but  his  looking  glass. 

James  Lane  Allen 

Morning  and  Evening  Thoughts 

Someone  has  made  this  challenging 
proposition:  "How  would  you  like  to 
create  your  own  mind?"  But  isn't  that 
exactly  what  each  of  us  does?  William 
James  said,  "The  mind  is  made  up  by 
what  it  feeds  upon." 

This  idea  was  strikingly  illustrated 
to  me  sometime  ago  in  conversation 
with  a  friend  who  said,  "But  I  am  just 
not  religious,"  and  he  shrugged  his 
shoulders  as  if  to  say,  "There  is  noth- 
ing that  I  can  do  about  it."  With  the 
hope  of  helping  him,  I  said,  "Bill,  I  am 
sure  that  what  you  say  is  true,  that 
you  are  not  religious.  But  have  you  ever 
thought  about  the  circumstances  that 
brought  that  situation  about?  How 
could  you  ever  hope  to  be  religious?  You 
don't  study  religion;  you  don't  read  the 
scriptures;  you  don't  go  to  church;  you 
don't  pray  to  God;  you  don't  think  about 
him;  you  don't  meditate  about  religious 
things.  How  could  you  ever  hope  to 
be  religious?" 

Someone  once  said  to  a  small  boy, 
"Who  gave  you  that  black  eye?"  The 
boy  said,  "No  one  gave  me  that  black 
eye.  I  had  to  fight  for  it."  That  is 
what  we  must  do  for  every  worthwhile 
thing  in  our  lives.  We  must  fight  for 
them.  Certainly  we  must  earn  the  right 
to  be  religious. 

I  told  my  friend  about  a  little  toy 
clown  that  I  saw  at  Christmas  time.  It 
was  a  little  plastic  figure  that  had  a 
lead  weight  in  the  crown  of  his  head 
which  could  always  be  depended  upon 
to  bring  him  to  an  upside-down  position. 
If  you  laid  him  on  his  back,  he  would 


ELDER  STERLING  W.  SILL 


109 


immediately  flip  up  on  his  head.  If 
you  stood  him  on  his  feet,  he  would 
quickly  reverse  his  position  and  light 
on  his  head. 

But  isn't  that  exactly  our  own  method 
of  response?  We  can  absolutely  depend 
upon  this  fact,  that  wherever  we  place 
the  weights  of  our  interest,  that  will  be 
the  place  at  which  we  will  more  or  less 
automatically  respond;  for  example,  my 
friend  was  very  much  interested  in  ath- 
letics; he  spent  his  Sundays  and  other 
free  time  reading  about  and  participat- 
ing in  various  kinds  of  sports.  He  told 
me  that  he  could  quote  the  batting 
averages  of  every  important  major  league 
baseball  player  in  the  United  States, 
and  at  the  same  time,  he  confessed  that 
he  could  not  quote  one  single  verse  from 
the  word  of  God. 

My  friend  thoroughly  understood  the 
importance  of  taking  a  vitamin  pill  ev- 
ery day,  but  he  had  no  conception  of 
the  desirability  or  the  methods  for  de- 
veloping spiritual  health  and  vitality. 
Someone  once  said,  "I  never  put  religion 
out  of  mind.  I  was  so  open-minded  it 
fell  out." 

Our  spiritual  health  must  always  be 
primarily  our  own  responsibility.  A 
physician  judges  the  health  by  the  appe- 
tite, and  our  spirituality  may  be  judged 
the  same  way.  It  is  easy  to  ruin  our 
appetite  for  the  things  of  God  when 
we  build  bars  in  our  homes  instead  of 
altars.  By  the  desecration  of  the  Sab- 
bath Day  we  may  become  more  inter- 
ested in  a  horse  race  than  in  the  celes- 
tial kingdom. 

William  James  said,  "That  which 
holds  our  attention  determines  our  ac- 
tion." That  rule  applies  to  a  prize  fight 
or  the  celestial  kingdom.  We  ourselves 
choose  the  interests  that  will  shape  our 
destiny.  But  no  life  can  in  its  final 
analysis  ever  really  be  successful  that 
is  primarily  concerned  with  its  own 
shallow  pleasures  and  narrow  interests, 
but  can  find  no  time  for  the  author  of 
our  lives  and  our  blessings.  Someone 
said — 

No  time  for  God, 

What   fools   we   are 

To  clutter  up   our  lives 

With  worthless  things 

And    leave    without    the    Lord   of    life 

And  life  itself. 


No  time  for  God? 

Better  to  say 

No  time  to  eat,  to  sleep,  to  live,  to  die. 

Take   time  for  God 

Or  a   poor  misshapen  thing  you'll   be 

To  step  into  eternity 

And  say  to  Him 

I  had  no  time  for  Thee. 

Only  when  we  make  God  and  his 
word  central  in  our  lives,  can  we  develop 
that  wonderful  religious  talent  that  will 
lead  us  back  into  his  presence. 

In  1935,  Clarence  Day,  Jr.,  wrote  a 
play  entitled,  Life  with  Father,  and 
I  would  like  to  borrow  that  title  this 
morning  to  apply  to  your  eternal  life. 
In  Section  76  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants, the  Lord  names  those  who  will 
qualify  for  the  celestial  kingdom.  He 
says — 

These  shall  dwell  in  the  presence  of  God 
and  his  Christ  forever  and  ever."  (D  &  C 
76:62.) 

Wherefore,  as  it  is  written  they  are  gods, 
even  the  sons  of  God.  (D  &  C  76:58.) 

These  are  they  whose  bodies  are  celestial, 
whose  glory  is  that  of  the  sun,  even  the 
glory  of  God,  the  highest  of  all,  whose  glory 
the  sun  in  the  firmament  is  written  of  as 
being  typical.  (D  &  C  76:70.) 

Then  by  way  of  contrast,  I  would  like 
to  offer  for  your  consideration  the  pros- 
pect of  "life  without  father."  Suppose 
that  we  should  become  a  part  of  that  in- 
numerable company  who  will  spend 
eternity  in  the  telestial  kingdom,  of 
whom  it  is  said,  "Where  God  and  Christ 
are,  they  cannot  come,  worlds  without 
end."  (Ibid.,  76:112.) 

I  would  just  like  to  point  out  in  pass- 
ing that  that  is  a  very  long  time  to  be 
excluded  from  association  with  those  we 
would  like  most  to  be  with. 

One  of  the  most  devastating  of  all 
human  emotions  is  the  sense  of  being 
alone,  of  not  being  wanted,  of  being 
unworthy.  Suppose  that  sometime  we 
find  that  because  we  have  weighted  our 
interests  in  the  wrong  places,  that  we 
have  become  unfit  for  the  presence  of 
God  and  have  therefore  lost  our  greatest 
blessing.  A  peculiar  thing  happens 
when  we  stand  on  our  heads  so  to 
speak,  for  then  it  seems  to  us  that  all 
the  world  is  upside-down,  and  we  are 
then  unable  properly  to  appraise  values. 


110 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  7 

The  most  valuable  thing  in  life  is  life 
itself.  The  greatest  gift  of  God  is  eternal 
life,  that  is,  "Life  with  Father."  There- 
fore, these  fifty-two  wonderful  days  have 
been  set  aside  especially  to  help  us  pre- 
pare for  that  magnificent  experience 
which  lies  just  beyond  our  mortality. 
One  of  our  most  inspiring  hymns  says — 

We  feel  it  a  pleasure  to  serve  Thee, 
And  love  to  obey  Thy  command. 

William  Fowler 

And  one  of  the  most  important  of 
those  commands  has  to  do  with  our  ob- 
servance of  that  great  day  on  which  we 
try  to  please  God,  the  day  I  like  to 
think  of  as  "Father's  Day,"  the  divine 


Third  Day 

command  concerning  which  not  only 
came  down  to  us  across  the  ages  from 
the  fires  of  Sinai,  but  it  has  been  given 
anew  by  the  direct  command  of  God 
in  our  own  day.  For  God  has  said  again 
to  us  in  substance,  in  our  own  interests, 

Remember  the  sabbath  day,  to  keep  it 
holy.   (Ex.  20:8.) 

May  God  help  us  so  to  do,  I  pray  in 
Jesus'  name.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Sterling  W.  Sill,  Assistant  to 
the  Twelve,  has  just  spoken  to  us.  Elder 
Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve,  will  be  our  concluding  speaker. 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Since  we  last  met  in  general  confer- 
ence, we  have  passed  the  one  hun- 
dredth anniversary  of  the  birth  of 
President  Heber  J.  Grant.  I  call  this 
to  your  attention  because  I  have  great 
appreciation  for  that  wonderful  man, 
for  the  remarkable  influence  he  had 
upon  my  life,  particularly  in  my  younger 
years. 

It  was  President  Grant  who  gave  to 
me  my  first  real  introduction  to  the 
Book  of  Mormon.  When  I  was  about 
ten  years  of  age,  he  came  to  the  ward 
in  which  I  lived  and  spoke  in  one  of 
our  Sacrament  meetings.  As  he  has 
done  on  other  occasions,  that  day  he 
told  of  his  own  first  reading  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  and  of  the  great  impression 
made  upon  him  by  the  life  of  Nephi. 
In  his  address  he  made  Nephi  such  a 
reality  to  me  that  I  had  a  desire  to 
read  about  him  for  myself. 

I  took  my  father's  Book  of  Mormon, 
and  I  read  the  story  of  Nephi,  having 
in  mind  what  President  Grant  had 
said.  As  I  read,  not  only  did  I  learn  to 
appreciate  that  great  prophet  of  old, 
but  I  had  come  into  my  soul  also  a  deep 
love  for  the  Book  of  Mormon,  even  as 
a  boy. 

You  will  remember  another  address 
that  President  Grant  gave,  sometimes 
repeating,  pertaining  to  the  Book  of 
Mormon.     I  would  like  to  read  to  you 


an  excerpt  from  that  address.  Said 
President  Grant:  "When  I  was  a  young 
unmarried  man,  another  young  man 
who  had  received  a  doctor's  degree  ridi- 
culed me  for  believing  in  the  Book  of 
Mormon.  He  said  he  could  point  out 
two  lies  in  that  book.  One  was  that 
the  people  had  built  their  homes  out  of 
cement,  and  they  were  very  skilful  in 
the  use  of  cement.  He  said  there  had 
never  been  found  and  never  would  be 
found,  a  house  built  of  cement  by  the 
ancient  inhabitants  of  this  country,  be- 
cause the  people  in  that  early  age  knew 
nothing  about  cement.  He  said  that 
should  be  enough  to  make  one  disbelieve 
the  book.  I  said:  'That  does  not  affect 
my  faith  one  particle.  I  read  the  Book 
of  Mormon  prayerfully  and  supplicated 
God  for  a  testimony  in  my  heart  and 
soul  of  the  divinity  of  it,  and  I  have  ac- 
cepted it  and  believe  it  with  all  my 
heart.'  I  also  said  to  him,  'If  my  chil- 
dren do  not  find  cement  houses,  I  expect 
that  my  grandchildren  will.'  Now,  since 
that  time,  houses  made  of  cement  and 
massive  structures  of  the  same  material 
have  been  uncovered. 

"Not  very  far  from  the  City  of  Mexico 
there  is  a  monument  two  hundred  and 
ten  feet  high,  built  of  cement.  .  .  .  My 
first  counselor  [Anthony  W.  Ivins]  has 
stood  on  that  monument.  You  could 
put  forty  tabernacles  like  this  one  inside 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


111 


of  it.  It  covers  more  than  ten  acres  of 
ground  and  is  two  and  a  half  times 
higher  than  this  building.  From  the  top 
of  that  monument  one  can  see  small 
mounds,  and  as  these  mounds  are  being 
uncovered,  they  are  found  to  be  won- 
derfully built  cement  houses,  with  drain 
pipes  of  cement,  showing  skill  and  abil- 
ity, superior  almost  to  anything  we 
have  today  so  far  as  the  use  of  cement 
is  concerned. 

"Another  statement  that  this  doctor 
made,"  continued  President  Grant,  "was 
this:  that  the  voice  of  man  can  only 
carry  a  few  hundred  feet,  and  yet  the 
Book  of  Mormon  teaches  that  .  .  .  Jesus 
Christ  .  .  .  spoke  to  the  people  and  his 
voice  was  heard  all  over  the  land.  'That 
is  a  lie,'  said  he,  'and  you  know  it.'  I 
said,  'That  is  no  lie  at  all.  Jesus  Christ, 
under  God,  was  the  Creator  of  this  earth, 
and  if  he  had  the  power  and  ability  to 
create  the  earth  I  believe  that  he  could 
arrange  for  his  voice  to  carry  all  over 
the  world  at  one  and  the  same  time.' 

"The  radio  is  doing  what?"  asks 
President  Grant.  "I  read  the  other  day 
that  a  song  had  been  heard  nine  thou- 
sand miles  away,  not  only  every  word 
of  it,  but  every  note.  .  .  .  We  had  four 
letters  from  New  Zealand  or  Australia, 
I  have  forgotten  which,  to  the  effect 
that  people  there  had  heard  perfectly 
the  programs  that  had  been  broadcast 
over  the  radio.  ...  In  that  program  the 
announcement  was  made  that  if  any- 
body in  a  foreign  land  who  heard  the 
program  would  so  indicate  there  would 
be  sent  to  him  a  pound  box  of  candy, 
and  four  people  wrote  for  the  boxes  of 
candy.  It  takes  the  sun  eighteen  and 
one  half  hours  to  travel  that  far  (with 
reference  to  the  rotation  of  the  earth), 
yet  the  voice  carried  that  distance  as 
quickly  as  you  can  snap  your  finger. 

"I  said  to  this  man,"  continued 
President  Grant,  'the  voice  of  the  Savior 
could  go  all  over  the  world  if  he  so 
arranged  it.'  The  radio  has  proved 
what  I  said. 

"Faith  is  a  gift  of  God,  and  I  thank 
God  for  the  faith  in  and  the  knowledge 
of  the  divinity  of  the  Book  of  Mormon 
which  I  had  in  my  youthful  days,  and 
that  these  two  alleged  scientific  facts, 
which  are  now  known  to  be  fallacies, 
did  not  destroy  my  faith."  (Conference 
Report,  April,   1929:128-130.) 


This  was  very  interesting  to  me  be- 
cause I  had  an  experience  similar  to 
it.  When  I  was  a  young  missionary,  1 
came  to  a  professional  man  and  his  wife 
and  told  them  the  story  of  the  coming 
forth  of  the  Book  of  Mormon,  and  of 
its  having  been  translated  by  Joseph 
Smith  through  the  power  of  God  from 
a  set  of  gold  plates.  This  professional 
man  laughed  at  me  and  ridiculed  the 
idea  that  gold  plates  were  ever  used  as 
records  of  the  past.  "Why,"  he  said, 
"I  have  specialized  in  ancient  history, 
and  I  know  from  all  my  reading  there 
is  not  one  single  instance  in  all  of  the 
textbooks  where  it  says  that  ancient 
records  were  inscribed  upon  gold  plates." 
He  said,  "If  you  know  anything  at  all 
about  ancient  history,  you  know  that 
clay  tablets  were  used,  and  that  papyrus 
was  used,  but  never  is  there  a  mention 
of  gold  plates." 

I  was  a  student  at  school  when  I  was 
called  on  my  mission,  and  I  had  read 
some  little  bit  in  ancient  history.  I 
remembered  that  there  was  not  any  men- 
tion in  my  textbooks,  either,  about  gold 
plates,  although  much  had  been  said 
about  the  clay  tablets.  So  I  had  no 
scholastic  answer  for  this  man.  But 
as  I  stood  before  him,  I  remembered 
President  Grant  and  his  testimony  that 
I  heard  as  a  ten-year-old  boy,  and  then 
as  I  later  heard,  this  declaration  that 
he  made  which  I  have  read  to  you. 

In  my  simplicity  I  bore  testimony  to 
this  learned  man  that  although  I  knew 
little  about  the  history  of  the  past,  and 
I  had  no  scholastic  material  to  present 
to  him  about  the  gold  plates,  God  had 
given  me  a  testimony  that  indeed  Joseph 
Smith  did  have  gold  plates,  and  that 
from  them  the  Book  of  Mormon  was 
translated,  and  that  I  knew  it  was 
true. 

I  used  to  think  a  lot  about  that  con- 
versation and  wondered  about  the  his- 
torians, and  why  they  had  said  nothing 
about  gold  plates.  It  did  not  disturb  me, 
however. 

But  how  different  are  things  today! 
History  is  no  longer  silent  about  the 
gold  plates.  Historians  not  only  are 
vocal,  but  they  are  also  eloquent  in  an- 
nouncing to  the  world  that  many  sets 
of  plates  of  precious  metal  have  been 
found  containing  many  records  of  the 
past  engraved  on  their  pages  by  skilful 


112 

Sunday,  April  7 

men  who  knew  how  to  write  on  plates 
of  metal.  Archaeologists  have  found 
gold  plates  and  silver  plates,  copper 
plates  and  brass  plates  and  bronze 
plates.  They  have  found  big  plates  and 
little  plates,  thick  plates  and  thin  plates. 
Some  of  them  were  found  separately 
and  singly,  and  others  had  been  brought 
together  in  book  form — many  with  pages 
of  gold  and  silver  as  thin  as  modern 
paper,  many  of  them  skilfully  and 
beautifully  engraved  with  the  record 
of  the  civilizations  of  the  past. 

Quite  as  interesting  to  me  as  the  dis- 
covery that  there  have  been  many  other 
plates  was  the  manner  in  which  these 
plates  were  found.  Under  the  stones 
of  the  palace  of  the  Chaldean  monarch, 
Sargon,  was  found  a  set  of  plates,  some 
of  gold  and  some  of  silver,  and  do  you 
know  how  they  were  deposited?  They 
were  placed  in  a  box  made  of  stone 
carefully  put  together  and  buried  in  the 
ground.  In  Iran  have  been  found  some 
plates  of  King  Darius,  dating  back  to 
518  BC.  They  were  gold  and  silver 
also,  and  beautifully  engraved.  And 
how  had  they  been  preserved?  By 
having  been  placed  in  a  carefully  made 
box  of  stone  and  buried  in  the  ground. 

As  I  read  these  things,  my  mind  went 
quickly  back  to  the  description  of  Joseph 
Smith,  pertaining  to  the  manner  in 
which  the  Book  of  Mormon  plates  had 
been  preserved,  for  Joseph  Smith  wrote: 

Convenient  to  the  village  of  Manchester, 
Ontario  county,  New  York,  stands  a  hill  of 
considerable  size,  and  the  most  elevated  of 
any  in  the  neighborhood.  On  the  west  side 
of  this  hill,  not  far  from  the  top,  under  a 
stone  of  considerable  size,  lay  the  plates, 
deposited  in  a  stone  box.  This  stone  was 
thick  and  rounding  in  the  middle  on  the 
upper  side,  and  thinner  towards  the  edges, 
so  that  the  middle  part  of  it  was  visible 
above  the  ground,  but  the  edge  all  around 
was  covered  with  earth. 

Having  removed  the  earth,  I  obtained 
a  lever,  which  I  got  fixed  under  the  edge 
of  the  stone,  and  with  a  little  exertion 
raised  it  up.  I  looked  in,  and  there  indeed 
did  I  behold  the  plates,  the  Urim  and 
Thummim,  and  the  breastplate,  as  stated 
by  the  messenger.  The  box  in  which  they 
lay  was  formed  by  laying  stones  together 
in  some  kind  of  cement.  In  the  bottom  of 
the  box  were  laid  two  stones  crossways  of 
the  box,  and  on  these  stones  lay  the  plates 
and  the  other  things  with  them.  (J.  S.  2:51- 
52.) 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

When  I  read  the  reports  of  these  other 
plates  and  remembered  the  story  of 
Joseph  Smith,  I  said  to  myself:  "Thank 
the  Lord.  Surely  God  moves  in  a  mys- 
terious way,  his  wonders  to  perform!" 

Plates  have  been  found  in  many 
places,  in  both  the  Old  World  and  the 
New.  They  have  been  found  in  Pales- 
tine, in  Egypt,  in  Babylonia,  ancient 
Assyria,  Rome,  ancient  Carthage,  Portu- 
gal, Italy,  ancient  Phoenicia,  India, 
Pakistan,  Arabia,  several  places  in  South 
America  and  Central  America,  Mexico, 
and  in  the  United  States.  A  set  was 
found  in  the  state  of  Ohio.  Many 
copper  plates  have  been  found,  includ- 
ing one  set  of  eight  in  Dunklin  County, 
Missouri.  Another  set  was  found  near 
Mound  City,  Missouri,  and  still  another 
in  the  state  of  Georgia.  Five  copper  and 
two  brass  plates  were  found  among  the 
Tuckaubatchee  Indians,  who  have  a 
tradition  that  these  plates  were  given 
to  them  by  God. 

When  I  thought  about  the  plates 
being  discovered  in  Ohio,  Georgia,  and 
Missouri,  I  asked  a  friend  of  mine: 
"Which  is  more  difficult  to  believe: 
that  plates  were  found  in  Georgia  and 
Missouri  and  Ohio,  or  that  they  were 
found  in  the  state  of  New  York?" 

Then  he  said,  "Yes,  but  you  involve 
an  angel  with  your  plates." 

I  said,  "Do  you  believe  the  Bible?" 
And  he  said,  "Yes."  I  asked  him, 
"Which  is  more  difficult:  to  believe 
that  an  angel  came  down  from  heaven 
and  showed  Joseph  Smith  the  resting 
place  of  a  set  of  plates  made  by  ancient 
man;  or  to  believe  that  God  would  come 
down  from  heaven  himself  and  with 
his  hand  engrave  the  Ten  Command- 
ments upon  two  tablets  of  stone  and 
give  them  to  Moses?" 

Then  I  remembered  that  we  do  not 
receive  a  testimony  from  scientific  re- 
search, nor  from  argument.  I  remem- 
bered that  the  only  way  we  get  a  testi- 
mony of  the  truthfulness  of  the  Book 
of  Mormon  is  in  the  way  President 
Grant  received  it,  in  a  way  that  I  re- 
ceived it,  and  as  a  million  other  Latter- 
day  Saints  have  received  it — the  way 
explained  by  Mormon  when  he  said: 

And  when  ye  shall  receive  these  things, 
I  would  exhort  you  that  ye  would  ask  God, 
the  Eternal  Father,  in  the  name  of  Christ, 
if  these  things  are  not  true;  and  if  ye  shall 


ELDER  MARK  E.  PETERSEN 


113 


ask  with  a  sincere  heart,  with  real  intent, 
having  faith  in  Christ,  he  will  manifest  the 
truth  of  it  unto  you,  by  the  power  of  the 
Holy  Ghost.   (Moroni  10:4.) 

With  all  the  fervor  of  my  soul  I  thank 
the  Almighty  that  he  has  given  to  me 
a  testimony  of  that  book.  And  what  is 
the  testimony?  That  the  Book  of  Mor- 
mon is  true,  that  it  is  the  word  of  God,  a 
new  volume  of  scripture  for  this  modern 
world.  And  I  testify  to  you  and  all 
others  who  listen  that  if  they  will  but 
read  the  Book  of  Mormon  prayerfully 
with  a  sincere  heart  and  ask  God  for  a 
testimony  of  it,  they  will  receive  it,  as 
so  many  of  the  others  of  us  have,  and 
this  is  my  testimony,  in  the  name  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

He  to  whom  you  have  just  listened 
is  Elder  Mark  E.  Petersen  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve.  You  undoubtedly 
noticed  that  we  rather  restricted  Elder 
George  Q.  Morris  in  his  inspirational 
sermon.  The  fact  is,  that  we  have  done 
the  best  we  can  throughout  this  service 
to  comply  with  the  requests  of  some  of 
our  television  listeners.  In  one  area  the 
television  broadcast  had  to  close  at  11 
o'clock,  and  the  director  of  that  station 
did  not  wish  to  carry  the  responsibility 
of  interrupting  a  sermon.  It  would  be 
all  right  if  we  would  sing  at  11  o'clock, 
and  at  11  o'clock  you  were  singing.  We 
thank  Brother  Morris  for  closing. 

That  explains  too,  why  we  did  not 
make  reference  this  morning  to  the  great 
Priesthood  Meeting  held  last  evening 
in  97  groups,  including  the  Tabernacle 
here.  There  were  in  those  97  groups 
37,180  men  holding  the  Priesthood. 
That  is  the  largest  gathering  of  Priest- 
hood ever  held  in  the  Church. 


That  is  why  also  we  did  not  tell  you 
leaders  in  the  political  and  educational 
world  that  we  are  very  happy  indeed  to 
bid  you  welcome.  We  have  the  fol- 
lowing present,  so  far  as  the  Brethren 
have  been  able  to  see,  worshipping  with 
us  this  morning:  Senator  Arthur  V. 
Watkins;  Governor  George  Dewey 
Clyde;  Secretary  of  State  Lamont  Toron- 
to; Mayor  Adiel  F.  Stewart;  Ernest  L. 
Wilkinson,  president  of  the  Brigham 
Young  University;  President  A.  Ray  Ol- 
pin  of  the  University  of  Utah;  President 
Daryl  Chase,  State  University  of  Agri- 
culture; John  L.  Clarke,  president  of 
Ricks  College;  Elliott  Cameron,  direc- 
tor of  Snow  College;  Dr.  William  P. 
Miller,  president  of  Weber  College;  E. 
Allen  Bateman,  state  superintendent  of 
public  instruction;  Dr.  M.  Lynn  Ben- 
nion,  superintendent  of  Salt  Lake  City 
Schools,  and  undoubtedly  others.  We 
are  glad  you  have  been  with  us  during 
this  spiritual  feast. 

We  have  been  inspired  by  the  singing 
of  the  Tabernacle  Choir,  led  by  J.  Spen- 
cer Cornwall,  with  Brother  Alexander 
Schreiner  at  the  organ.  The  closing 
song  by  the  Choir  will  be  "Lead,  Kindly 
Light."  The  soloist  will  be  Elder' Hul- 
bert  Keddington.  The  closing  prayer 
will  be  offered  by  Elder  Clarence 
Neeley,  president  of  the  Benson  stake. 

Following  this,  this  Conference  will 
be  adjourned  until  2  o'clock  this  after- 
noon. 

The  Choir  sang  the  hymn,  "Lead 
Kindly  Light." 

The  benediction  was  pronounced  by 
Elder  Clarence  Neeley,  president  of  the 
Benson  Stake. 

Conference  adjourned  until  2  o'clock 
p.m. 


THIRD  DAY 
AFTERNOON  MEETING 


The  concluding  session  of  the  Confer- 
ence was  held  at  2:00  p.m.,  Sunday, 
April  7. 

The  singing  for  this  session  was  by 
the  Tabernacle  Choir,  J.  Spencer  Corn- 


wall conducting,  Frank  W.  Asper  at  the 
organ. 

The  meeting  commenced  promptly  at 
2  o'clock,  by  President  David  O.  Mc- 
Kay, who  presided  and  conducted  the 


114 

Sunday,  April  7 

services,    making   the    following    intro- 
ductory remarks: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Third  Day 

dent  of  the  St.  George  Stake,  offered  the 
invocation. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  music  for  this  session,  the  con- 
cluding session  of  our  Conference,  will 
be  furnished  by  the  Tabernacle  Choir, 
}.  Spencer  Cornwall  conducting,  Frank 
W.  Asper  at  the  organ. 

We  shall  begin  this  service  by  the 
Choir  singing,  "The  Lord's  Prayer,"  as 
arranged  by  Leroy  J.  Robertson.  The 
opening  prayer  will  be  offered  by  Dr. 
Wilford  J.  Reichmann,  president  of  the 
St.  George  Stake. 

The  Choir  sang  "The  Lord's  Prayer," 
(arranged  by  LeRoy  J.  Robertson). 
Elder  Wilford  J.   Reichmann,   presi- 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Dr.  Wilford  J.  Reichmann,  president 
of  the  St.  George  Stake,  offered  the  in- 
vocation. The  Tabernacle  Choir  will 
now  sing  "There  Is  A  Green  Hill  Far 
Away."  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  will  be  our 
first  speaker  following  the  singing. 

Singing  by  the  Choir,  "There  Is  A 
Green  Hill  Far  Away." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Elder  Oscar  A.  Kirkham  of  the  First 
Council  of  Seventy  will  now  speak  to 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder  Adam 
S.  Bennion. 


ELDER  OSCAR  A.  KIRKHAM 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


President  McKay,  I  am  very  grateful 
for  this  hour  and  for  this  oppor- 
tunity. Your  words  have  sustained 
me  as  have  also  those  of  your  Counselors 
which  have  been  spoken.  The  wisdom 
and  the  inspiration  of  this  Church  and 
its  teachings  have  been  a  great  boon 
in  my  life. 

There  are  two  things  that  deeply  im- 
press me  in  the  Latter-day  Saint  teach- 
ings as  I  labor  with  youth.  First,  you 
must  live  worthy  that  you  may  go  on 
a  mission  for  the  Church — the  second 
I  will  give  later. 

In  the  Doctrine  and  Covenants,  sec- 
tion 68,  we  read: 

Go  ye  into  all  the  world,  preach  the 
gospel  to  every  creature,  acting  in  the  author- 
ity which  I  have  given  you,  baptizing  in 
the  name  of  the  Father,  and  of  the  Son, 
and  of  the  Holy  Ghost.  (D  &  C  68:8.) 

Then  the  Lord  will  be  with  you  and 
bless  you. 

Thousands  have  heard  and  obeyed 
this  word  of  the  Lord.  Now  why  not 
you,  young  men,  take  this  opportunity? 
There  will  be  something  seriously  want- 
ing in  your  life  unless  you  have  this 
experience.  Here  is  one  of  the  finest 
things  you  can  do  for  peace,  happiness, 
and  personal  progress.    Plan  now,  nowl 


As  the  thought  crosses  your  mind,  let 
it  meet  high  resolve  in  your  own  life. 
There  are  thousands  who  are  waiting 
to  hear  the  word  of  the  Lord.  Yes, 
many   are  waiting  to  hear  your  voice. 

My  religion  is  your  religion;  let  us 
live  this  great  life  fully  together. 

The  second  thing  I  suggest  to  you, 
my  young  friends — you  must  be  worthy 
to  be  married  in  a  temple  of  the  Lord 
for  time  and  for  eternity. 

It  may  take  time  for  you  and  your 
young  bride-to-be  to  understand  all  that 
it  signifies,  it  may  take  a  little  courage, 
for  it  all  seems  so  strange,  but  it  is  beau- 
tiful and  understandable.  It  will  be 
an  answer  to  your  prayer  and  to  mine. 

Remember,  you  said  that  night  as 
you  proposed,  "It  must  be  in  a  temple 
of  God." 

It  was  in  an  early  testimony  meeting, 
after  you  made  that  declaration,  that 
I  saw  you  both  stand  together,  and  you, 
young  man,  courageously  spoke  for  both 
of  you.  I  was  sitting  in  the  audience. 
My,  how  you  thrilled  me.  I  said,  "Now 
you  are  on  the  way.  This  will  be  a 
great  life.  Joy  will  fill  your  hearts. 
This  is  the  Mormon  way  of  life." 

To  go  on  a  mission,  to  be  married 
in  the  temple  of  God  for  time  and  for 
eternity! 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


115 


One  father,  a  nonmember  of  the 
Church,  said,  when  his  son  was  ready 
for  departure  for  his  mission:  "Son,  I 
am  very  proud  of  you.  Your  life  and 
your  conduct  have  been  an  inspiration 
to  your  mother  and  me.  Son,  I  want 
to  be  your  first  convert  to  the  Church. 
Take  hold  of  me.  Don't  let  me  turn 
back.    I  want  to  be  your  first  convert." 

For  these  lovely  experiences  for  our 
youth,  I  humbly  pray.  There  is  much 
that  can  be  said  for  the  Latter-day  Saint 
Church  program.  It  has  been  blessed 
and  inspired  of  the  Lord.  As  you  have 
listened  this  day,  the  day  before,  and 
the  day  before  that,  your  meditations 
have  been  enriching.  The  Lord  has 
been  talking  to  you. 

I  have  selected  merely  these  two  great 
teachings,  which  I  feel  are  especially 
vital  to  the  lives  and  happiness  of  our 
youth. 

In   a   few   days   thousands   of  youth 


from  all  parts  of  the  United  States  will 
meet  at  Valley  Forge,  and  then  a  few 
days  later,  thousands  more  will  meet  in 
London,  England.  They  will  come 
from  all  over  the  world.  They  are  of 
many  colors  and  races;  I  have  camped 
with  them;  I  know  these  men  and  boys; 
and  if  I  may  be  bold  to  say,  they  have 
faith  in  God! 

May  the  Lord  bless  us  as  we  make 
more  and  more  friends,  as  we  mingle 
with  people  that  we  may  give  freely  that 
which  God  has  given  us  so  abundantly, 
I  pray  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Oscar 
A.  Kirkham,  member  of  the  First  Coun- 
cil of  Seventy.  Elder  Adam  S.  Bennion 
of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  will  now 
address  us.  He  will  be  followed  by  El- 
der S.  Dilworth  Young. 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Four  years  have  come  and  gone  since 
I  was  called  to  this  position,  and 
they  have  been  tremendous  years: 
Here  with  these  devoted  brethren,  out 
in  the  stakes  and  wards  with  our  won- 
derful people,  in  representative  military 
camps  from  Canada  to  Germany,  and 
in  the  mission  fields  with  the  inspiring 
devotion  of  our  young  men  and  women 
and  the  heart-warming  response  of  the 
Saints. 

Together  with  these  assignments  have 
come  opportunities  to  attend  stimulating 
Religious  Emphasis  Weeks  at  represen- 
tative universities  of  America.  It  is  an 
intriguing  experience  to  be  invited  to 
be  a  member  of  a  team  made  up  of  a 
Catholic  priest,  an  Episcopalian  min- 
ister, a  Presbyterian,  a  Methodist,  a 
Baptist,  a  Seventh  Day  Adventist,  a 
Christian  Scientist,  a  Jewish  rabbi,  and 
a  Mormon  elder. 

To  meet  with  faculties  of  those  insti- 
tutions and  with  students  and  then  to 
spend  the  evening  in  joint  sessions  of 
fraternity  members  and  sorority  girls, 
attempting  to  answer  the  questions 
which  they    ask — and  I   think   I   have 


never  been  asked  so  many  questions  in 
my  life  before,  and  I  have  never  been 
so  grateful  for  the  restored  gospel  of 
Jesus  Christ  and  so  proud  of  the  pro- 
gram which  it  carries  forward. 

One  of  the  most  meaningful  ques- 
tions ever  put  to  me  was  this  one  in  one 
of  the  universities:  "Mr.  Bennion,  what 
has  your  Church  given  to  America  that 
America  didn't  already  have?"  I  have 
been  thinkng  about  that  question  ever 
since,  and  one  day  I  hope  to  have  a 
complete  answer. 

When  it  was  first  put  to  me,  I  offered 
five  simple  answers.  Today  I  should 
like  to  do  something  I  have  not  done  in 
a  conference  here  before.  You  good  peo- 
ple who  sit  out  there  by  your  radios, 
I  hope  you  have  a  pencil  handy,  because 
I  am  going  to  violate  all  the  rules  of 
psychology.  The  psychologists  say  we 
ought  to  limit  ourselves  to  three  ideas, 
or  to  five,  at  most.  I  am  going  to  take 
you  to  a  score  of  them  today,  and  I  am 
sure  you  cannot  remember  them  all,  but 
if  you  will  jot  them  down,  my  thought 
is  that  it  is  a  wonderful  thing  to  get 
the  whole  scope  of  the  gospel,  to  run  it 


116 

Sunday,  April  7 

through  in  its  entirety  as  best  we  can  in 
these  few  minutes. 

Well,  I  started  out  with  my  answer 
to  "What  has  your  Church  given  to 
America  that  America  didn't  already 
have?"  and  I  said,  first  of  all  A  Welfare 
Plan.  A  plan  to  insure  against  want, 
an  assurance  that  no  man,  woman,  or 
child  shall  ever  be  left  in  distress,  a  plan 
which  is  not  a  dole,  a  plan  which  does 
not  involve  beggary,  a  plan  involving 
honest  work  and  mutual  helpfulness, 
a  plan  inspired  of  God  for  the  blessing 
of  his  children. 

Wherever  this  welfare  plan  has  been 
explained,  men  have  said,  "Certainly 
that  is  a  contribution  to  America." 

The  second  thing  I  named  was  A 
Great  Pioneer  Story.  I  love  to  live  over 
again  the  heroic  experiences  of  our  fore- 
bears when,  driven  out  of  their  homes 
in  Nauvoo  in  the  dead  of  winter,  they 
trudged  across  three  hundred  miles  of 
snow  and  mud  and  muck  to  Winter 
Quarters,  then  to  launch  another  trek 
of  a  thousand  miles  through  an  unin- 
habited wilderness  to  a  haven  char- 
acterized significantly  by  their  prophet 
leader,  Brigham  Young,  when  he  said: 

We  will  go  so  far  that  our  enemies  will 
not  choose  to  follow  us  and  we  will  pick 
so  unpromising  a  place  that  nobody  will 
covet  it.  (Brigham  Young  to  President 
James  K.  Polk,  August  9,  1846.) 

We  love  now  to  sing  the  song: 

We'll  find  the  place  which  God  for  us  pre- 
pared, 

Far  away  in  the  West; 

Where  none  shall  come  to  hurt  or  make 
afraid; 

There  the  Saints  will  be  blessed. 

"Come,   Come,   Ye   Saints." 

In  that  story  is  a  tale  to  match  Ply- 
mouth, a  tale  reminiscent  of  Israel  on 
her  way  to  the  Promised  Land.  There 
are  courage  and  devotion  and  sacrifice 
and  faith  triumphant  over  hardship,  and 
I  submit  to  you,  as  I  have  submitted  to 
the  universities  of  this  country — there 
is  a  contribution. 

In  the  third  place,  and  the  men  of 
these  universities  are  impressed  with  it, 
we  have  given  to  the  world  and  to 
America  A  Religious  Literature.  Try 
naming  a  modern  church  which  has 
given  to  America  anything  to  match  the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Book  of  Mormon,  the  Doctrine  and 
Covenants,  and  the  Pearl  of  Great 
Price. 

I  love  to  read  to  inquirers  after  truth 
those  masterful  and  moving  and  inspired 
messages  such  as  are  found  in  the  Doc- 
trine and  Covenants.  May  I  commend 
to  you  when  you  go  home  from  this 
conference,  that  you  try  in  your  family 
circle,  reading  aloud  once  more,  sections 
76  and  84  and  88  and  93  and  121  and 
130. 

The  fourth  thing  we  have  given  to 
America  is  A  Wonderful  Concept  of 
Deity.  If  you  will  read  representative 
descriptions  of  Deity  popular  a  hundred 
and  thirty-five  years  ago,  with  all  their 
intangible  vagaries,  you  will  be  grate- 
ful, as  I  am,  for  the  Prophet  Joseph 
Smith's  forthright  and  simple  declara- 
tion in  his  account  of  his  glorious  vision: 

When  the  light  rested  upon  me  I  saw 
two  Personages,  whose  brightness  and  glory 
defy  all  description,  standing  above  me  in 
the  air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  call- 
ing me  by  name  and  said,  pointing  to  the 
other — This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Him! 
(J.  S.  2:17.) 

It  will  stir  you  to  read  again  his  final 
testimony  as  recorded  in  section  76. 

The  fifth  thing  that  we  have  given 
to  America  is  The  Priesthood.  It  was 
similarly  wonderful  for  the  Prophet 
Joseph  not  only  to  announce  the  per- 
sonalities of  God  the  Father  and  the 
Son,  but  also  to  announce  the  return 
of  John  the  Baptist  to  confer  the  Aaronic 
Priesthood,  and  the  return  of  Peter, 
James,  and  John,  bringing  the  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood. 

We  declare  to  the  world  that  the 
priesthood,  long  lost,  has  been  restored 
in  this  the  last  great  dispensation,  the 
authority  to  act  in  the  name  of  God 
given  us  through  the  laying  on  of  hands 
by  messengers  out  of  heaven.  And  that 
is  a  contribution. 

Other  inquiries  have  prompted  me 
to  extend  my  analysis.  Over  and  over 
again  I  have  been  asked  throughout 
America  and  Europe  to  name  the  fea- 
tures that  are  distinctive  of  Mormon- 
ism.  I  can  only  name  them  here  but 
taken  together  they  set  out  a  pattern 
which  deserves  the  thoughtful  con- 
sideration of  men  everywhere.  I  leave 
them  with  you  in  the  hope  that  they 
might  heighten  your  appreciation  of  a 


ELDER  ADAM  S.  BENNION 


117 


wonderful  program.  I  have  given  you 
five,  and  with  a  termerity  that  perhaps 
exceeds  my  good  judgment,  I  want  to 
add  the  list  up  to  twenty-odd.  And  you 
will  appreciate  the  fact  that  all  I  can 
do  is  to  name  them.  You  take  them  and 
fill  them  in.  They  make  a  wonderful 
study. 

Item  6.  The  Principle  of  Free  Agency. 
The  glorious  privilege  of  choosing  what 
we  shall  believe,  what  we  shall  do, 
and  what  we  shall  become. 

Item  7.  The  Idea  of  Eternal  Pro- 
gression. An  everlasting  becoming!  As 
Professor  Rugh  once  said:  "Life  can  be- 
come the  achievement  of  a  perpetual 
triumph."  I  think  the  poet  Browning 
had  some  such  idea  in  mind  when  he 
penned  the  lines:  "A  man's  aim  should 
exceed  his  grasp — or  what's  a  heaven 
for." 

Item  8.  Tithing.  The  key  to  the 
financing  of  the  program  of  the  Church, 
a  returning  to  God  of  one-tenth  in  ap- 
preciation for  the  nine-tenths  he  so 
generously  gives  to  us  his  children. 

Item  9.  Temples  and  Temple  Ordi- 
nances. Try  to  name  the  modern  church 
that  builds  temples  for  sacred  ordinances, 
that  teaches  genealogical  research,  that 
does  vicarious  work  for  the  honored 
dead  of  other  generations. 

Item  10.  Ward  Teaching.  This  was 
stressed  so  beautifully  and  effectively  last 
night  in  our  General  Priesthood  meeting 
by  our  beloved  President.  It  is  hearten- 
ing to  know  that  every  family  in  the 
Church  may  receive  an  official  call 
each  month  by  a  representative  of  a 
bishop  to  inquire  in  a  friendly  spirit 
into  the  health  and  well-being  of  the 
members  of  the  family  and  to  leave  a 
stimulating  gospel  message  for  medita- 
tion during  the  month. 

Item  11.  Lay  Leadership.  Leader- 
ship inheres  in  the  membership  of  the 
Church.  Leaders  are  chosen  from  the 
ranks.  The  door  is  open  for  any  worthy 
young  man  or  young  woman  to  enter 
upon  the  path  that  leads  to  presidency 
in  the  various  organizations  of  the 
Church. 

Item  12.  A  Wonderful  Organization. 
The  genius  of  that  organization  is  re- 
flected in  the  fact  that  in  a  typical  ward 
— and  it  is  interesting  to  call  the  roll  as 
we  did  in  this  one  ward,  a  ward  of  600 
members — 236    men    and    women    are 


actually  engaged  in  leadership  responsi- 
bility, and  the  channels  of  activity  are 
perfectly  clear. 

Item  13.  A  Work-a-Day  Program. 
Mormonism  is  not  merely  a  system  of 
belief — it  is  a  gospel  of  activity.  It  is 
not  confined  to  church  worship  on  the 
Sabbath  Day — it  reaches  into  the  daily 
lives  of  its  members  every  day  in  the 
week.  As  someone  said  happily  in  Eu- 
rope: "The  Church  doesn't  work  its 
members  to  death — it  works  them  to 
life." 

Item  14.  A  Philosophy  of  Grace  and 
Works.  So  often  in  discussions  men 
get  lost  as  between  faith  and  grace  and 
works.  It  is  clear  that  our  redemption 
is  made  possible  by  the  grace  of  our 
Lord  and  Savior,  but  it  is  inconceivable 
that  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  man  can 
be  realized  without  effort.  Such  an  idea 
runs  counter  to  the  scripture  and  to 
every  experience  we  have  in  life.  It 
squares  with  reason  that  when  we  have 
done  all  that  we  can  in  and  of  our- 
selves, then  God  sublimates  our  efforts 
through  his  mercy. 

Item  15.  The  Word  of  Wisdom.  In 
the  interest  of  health  and  spiritual 
power,  it  is  good  to  know  that  we  have 
section  89  of  the  Doctrine  and  Cove- 
nants for  our  guidance. 

Item  16.  The  Great  Missionary  Sys- 
tem. One  of  the  finest  evidences  of  the 
vitality  and  selflessness  of  Mormonism 
is  the  fact  that  regularly  some  5,000  of 
her  choice  youth,  at  their  own  expense, 
go  out  into  almost  all  the  corners  of 
the  globe  and  for  two  years  devote  them- 
selves to  proclaiming  the  truths  of  the 
restored  gospel  for  the  blessing  of  their 
fellow  men. 

Item  17.  A  Great  Program  for  Youth. 
A  good  friend  of  mine  out  of  New  York 
recently  said  he  wished  he  could  have 
his  own  children  to  live  in  Utah,  to 
come  under  the  benedictions  of  our  pro- 
gram for  young  folk.  I  feel  sure  there 
is  no  element  of  boasting  in  proclaiming 
that  in  the  matter  of  a  well-rounded 
program  for  the  development  of  the 
talent  of  youth  through  recreation, 
scouting,  dramatics,  public  speaking, 
athletics,  social  leadership,  and  religious 
study  and  contemplation,  the  Church 
offers  some  of  the  finest  training  in  the 
world. 


118 

Sunday,  April  7 

Item  18.  Continuing  Revelation.  It 
seems  so  reasonable  to  believe  that  the 
God  who  created  the  world  and  all  of 
us,  should  still  reach  out  in  love  toward 
us  and  guide  our  destinies.  The  thought 
of  retirement  for  God  seems  repugnant 
to  an  intelligent  evaluation  of  his  pur- 
poses. Certainly  the  world  is  in  need 
of  direction  quite  as  much  today  as  it 
was  in  the  days  of  Moses. 

Item  19.  A  Precious  Fellowship 
through  Service.  One  of  the  most  satis- 
fying rewards  for  working  in  the  Church 
is  the  privilege  of  coming  to  know  fully 
how  wonderful  a  companionship  grows 
out  of  the  mutual  devotion  to  volunteer 
service  in  the  interest  of  our  fellow  men. 
There  is  a  rare  joy  in  joining  hands 
with  friends  in  the  service  of  our  Father 
in  heaven. 

Item  20.  Intellectual  Liberty  Cou- 
pled with  Intellectual  Responsibility. 
The  basic  belief,  "the  glory  of  God  is 
intelligence,"  puts  a  premium  on  the 
search  for  truth.  Men  are  encouraged 
to  reach  out  for  enlightenment  wherever 
it  is  worthily  to  be  found.  But  they  are 
also  charged  with  the  responsibility  of 
proofreading  their  thinking  against  good 
common  sense  and  against  the  revealed 
word  of  God. 

Item  21.  (I  marvel  at  your  patience — 
I  shall  run  out  of  numbers  soon.  But 
as  I  turn  them  through,  the  gospel 
seems  so  complete.  I  have  wanted  to 
do  this  once.)  Dedicated  Home  Mem- 
bership. Latter-day  Saints  honor  the 
home  as  the  foundation  of  civilization 
in  keeping  with  two  great  scriptural 
declarations: 

Lo,  children  are  an  heritage  of  the 
Lord:  .  .  . 

As  arrows  are  in  the  hand  of  a  mighty 
man;  so  are  children  of  the  youth. 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Happy  is  the  man  that  hath  his  quiver 
full  of  them:  they  shall  not  be  ashamed, 
but  they  shall  speak  with  the  enemies  in 
the  gate.    (Psalm   127:3-5.) 

And  then  that  wonderful  declaration 
to  Latter-day  Saint  parents  everywhere — 
Doctrine  and  Covenants  68:25 — on  our 
responsibility  in  the  training  of  chil- 
dren, coupled  with  the  wonderful  sug- 
gestions offered  in  this  conference;  we 
bid  parents  accept  their  full  responsi- 
bility to  the  spirits  that  have  been  en- 
trusted to  their  keeping  here  in  mortality. 

Item  22.  The  Anchor  of  Testimony. 
The  strength  of  the  Church  inheres  in 
a  mingling  of  two  influences:  revelation 
from  God  on  high  and  individual  testi- 
monies in  the  hearts  of  men  and  women. 
Testimony  is  the  stability  of  those  peo- 
ple. 

And  finally,  item  23.  The  Assurance 
of  Eternal  Life  and  Exaltation.  Through 
keeping  the  faith  and  through  keeping 
the  commandments  of  God,  confidence  is 
born  in  the  reality  of  a  literal  resur- 
rection through  the  atoning  sacrifice  of 
our  Lord  and  Savior,  Jesus  Christ. 

In  humble  gratitude  I  give  you  my 
witness  that  in  these  twenty-three 
distinctive  features  we  have  the  com- 
pletest  program  for  life — here  and  here- 
after— that  I  have  been  able  to  dis- 
cover. 

May  the  Lord  inspire  us  to  live  worthy 
of  it,  I  pray  in  his  name.  Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

You  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Adam  S. 
Bennion,  member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve.  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of 
the  First  Council  of  Seventy  will  now 
address  us. 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


I  cannot  remember  the  time  when  I 
have  not  heard  the  story,  quoted  by 
Brother  Bennion,  concerning  the 
coming  of  the  Father  and  the  Son  to  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith.  I  am  convinced 
as  I  grow  older  and  become  proportion- 
ately wiser  that  if  boys  and  girls  in  our 


Church  could  keep  that  story  upper- 
most in  their  hearts,  believing  it,  hav- 
ing a  testimony  of  it,  much  of  the 
ills  of  our  youth  which  President  Rich- 
ards so  graphically  portrayed  this  morn- 
ing would  not  be. 

I    am   concerned   however  with    one 


ELDER  S.  DILWORTH  YOUNG 


119 


item  which  has  recently  been  called  to 
my  attention  on  this  matter.  There  ap- 
pears to  be  going  about  our  communities 
some  writing  to  the  effect  that  the 
Prophet  Joseph  Smith  evolved  his  doc- 
trine from  what  might  have  been  a 
vision,  in  which  he  is  supposed  to  have 
said  that  he  saw  an  angel,  instead  of 
the  Father  and  Son.  According  to  this 
theory,  by  the  time  he  was  inspired  to 
write  the  occurrence  in  1838,  he  had 
come  to  the  conclusion  that  there  were 
two  Beings. 

This  rather  shocked  me.  I  can  see  no 
reason  why  the  Prophet,  with  his  bril- 
liant mind,  would  have  failed  to  re- 
member in  sharp  relief  every  detail  of 
that  eventful  day.  I  can  remember 
quite  vividly  that  in  1915  I  had  a  mere 
dream,  and  while  the  dream  was  pro- 
phetic in  its  nature,  it  was  not  startling. 
It  has  been  long  since  fulfilled,  but  I 
can  remember  every  detail  of  it  as 
sharply  and  clearly  as  though  it  had 
happened  yesterday.  How  then  could 
any  man  conceive  that  the  Prophet,  re- 
ceiving such  a  vision  as  he  received, 
would  not  remember  it  and  would  fail 
to  write  it  clearly,  distinctly,  and  ac- 
curately? 

It  seems  to  me,  too,  that  had  he 
evolved  such  a  thing,  his  enemies  would 
have  used  it  against  him.  In  1838  there 
was  a  crisis  in  the  Church.  Men  were 
falling  away.  It  was  at  that  time  that 
Oliver  Cowdery  became  disaffected.  If 
any  man  in  this  Church  had  ever  heard 
that  story  of  the  first  vision,  Oliver 
Cowdery  must  have  heard  it.  Yet  his 
reasons  for  disaffection  were  never  giv- 
en as  an  evolution  of  the  first  vision. 
Other  men  of  that  time  did  not  use  it  as 
their  excuse.  In  1844,  when  the  final 
conspiracy  was  concocted  to  murder 
Joseph  Smith,  the  reasons  given  by  those 
men  were  not  discrepancies  in  his  story 
of  the  first  vision,  but  rather  other  mat- 
ters far  removed  from  it. 

When  Joseph  wrote  the  story  in  1838, 
men  and  women  who  had  known  him 
ever  since  he  had  started  this  work  took 
the  story  in  their  stride;  that  is,  it  was 
common  enough  knowledge  from  the 
beginning  that  no  one  took  an  excep- 
tion to  it.  Everybody  knew  it;  every- 
body had  heard  it;  not  exactly  in  the 
words  in  which  he  wrote  it — I  believe 
no  man  will  speak  extemporaneously  in 


the  same  manner  that  he  will  write 
something — but  essentially  the  same, 
and  when  the  Saints  read  it,  it  merely 
confirmed  what  they  had  heard  over 
and  over  again. 

His  mother  should  have  known  some- 
thing about  it.  You  will  remember,  he 
walked  into  her  house  that  morning  and 
told  her  that  the  church  to  which  she 
had  given  allegiance  was  not  true.  To 
my  way  of  thinking,  he  must  have  told 
her  all  about  the  vision.  When  she 
chose  to  write  the  story  of  her  son's  ex- 
perience, she  did  not  put  it  in  her  own 
words.  I  suspect  that  she  must  have  felt 
that  so  nearly  was  what  he  had  written 
the  way  he  had  described  it  to  her,  that 
she  quoted  his  written  statement. 

All  of  these  things  seem  to  me  to 
add  up  to  irrefutable  evidence,  although 
not  said  exactly,  that  Joseph  Smith,  in 
1838,  told  the  correct  story  of  his  vision 
of  1820. 

Recently  I  made  some  slight  investi- 
gation, although  not  enough,  trying  to 
find  the  testimonies  of  some  of  those 
who  had  heard  Joseph  say  these  things 
before  1838.  I  did  not  find  much — I  did 
not  have  time  to  look  far — but  I  have 
one,  which  I  should  like  to  give  you. 

Edward  Stevenson  told  how  in  1834 
the  Prophet  came  to  Pontiac,  Michigan, 
Stevenson's  home  town,  and  there  held 
a  series  of  meetings,  attended  by  Broth- 
er Stevenson.  Brother  Stevenson  wrote 
that  the  following  was  the  Prophet's 
testimony  on  that  occasion: 

"I  am  witness  that  there  is  a  God, 
for  I  saw  him  in  open  day,  while  pray- 
ing in  a  silent  grove  in  the  spring  of 
1820."  Then  Brother  Stevenson  wrote: 
"He  further  testified  that  God  the  Eter- 
nal Father,  pointing  to  a  separate  Per- 
sonage in  the  likeness  of  himself,  said, 
'This  is  my  beloved  Son.    Hear  Him.' " 

I  submit  this  excerpt  as  enough  like 
the  story  that  the  Prophet  wrote  to  bear 
witness  that  he  wrote  it  accurately  and 
correctly. 

I  am  of  the  fifth  generation.  I  can 
remember  the  second  generation.  My 
grandchildren  are  of  the  seventh  genera- 
tion. Likely  in  their  day,  they  will 
remember  not  only  my  generation,  but 
will  see  also,  before  they  die,  the  tenth 
or  the  eleventh  generation.  It  is  just 
possible   that    some    of  them    may   be 


120 

Sunday,  April  7 

interested  enough  to  want  to  know  what 
their  grandfather  thought  about  these 
things,  and  they  will  investigate  the 
conference  reports.  I  should  like  them 
to  have  in  my  words  what  I  believe 
about  this  great  event. 

So  will  you  indulge  me  while  I  talk 
a  moment  to  my  grandchildren  and 
to  my  great-great-grandchildren,  to  Lor- 
aine,  to  Parkie,  to  Charlotte,  to  Annette, 
and  Wendy,  and  any  that  may  come 
hereafter.  (I  hope  there  will  be  many 
of  them.)  I  want  you  to  know  that  I 
know  that  Joseph  Smith  walked  into  a 
grove  in  1820,  inspired  of  the  Lord  to 
do  so,  knelt  down,  as  he  said,  among  the 
silent  trees,  offered  up  a  prayer,  and 
there  he  was  given  a  vision  in  which  he 
saw  God  the  Eternal  Father,  who  in  his 
turn  introduced  to  Joseph  his  beloved 
Son.  The  Son  told  Joseph  many  things 
which  would  transpire  but  of  which  he 
was  not  allowed  to  speak.  Beginning 
with  that  vision,  which  gave  us  our 
first  knowledge  since  the  time  of  the 
Savior  of  the  true  relationship  of  our 
Father  and  his  Son  to  us,  has  grown  this 
Church.  That  is  my  solemn  and  hum- 
ble testimony  to  those  of  my  house  who 
in  the  future  will  want  to  know  what  I 
thought  and  believed. 

In  order  that  they  will  have  no  doubt, 
and  that  no  carping  critic  may  read 
into  my  words  things  that  are  not  there, 
I  should  like  to  repeat  for  their  benefit 
what  the  Prophet  said  when  he  wrote 
his  vision: 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

...  I  saw  a  pillar  of  light  exactly  over 
my  head,  above  the  brightness  of  the  sun, 
which  descended  gradually  until  it  fell  upon 
me. 

.  .  .  when  the  light  rested  upon  me  I  saw 
two  Personages,  whose  brightness  and  glory 
defy  all  description,  standing  above  me  in  the 
air.  One  of  them  spake  unto  me,  calling 
me  by  name  and  said,  pointing  to  the  other — 
This  is  My  Beloved  Son.  Hear  Himl  (Joseph 
Smith  2:16-17.) 

I  will  stand  on  that  witness  and  add 
mine  that  I  know  by  the  Spirit  of  the 
Holy  Ghost  that  it  is  true,  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

The  Congregation  will  join  with  the 
Choir  now  in  singing  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  for  a  Prophet."  The  last  speak- 
er, the  one  to  whom  we  have  just  lis- 
tened, is  Elder  S.  Dilworth  Young  of  the 
First  Council  of  Seventy. 

The  Choir  and  congregation  joined 
in  singing  the  hymn,  "We  Thank  Thee, 
O  God,  For  A  Prophet." 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  will  now  address 
us.  He  will  be  followed  by  Elder 
Marion  D.  Hanks  of  the  First  Council  of 
Seventy. 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 

Presiding  Bishop  of  the  Church 


President  McKay,  my  beloved  breth- 
ren and  sisters,  I  sincerely  trust  I 
may  have  an  interest  in  your  prayers 
that  I  might  express  a  few  thoughts  I 
have  with  reference  to  the  gospel  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

I  do  not  recall  ever  having  attended 
a  more  inspirational  conference.  Our 
prophet  has  received  revelation  for  our 
good  and  benefit.  If  I  have  one  thought 
above  another,  it  is  that  as  we  go  home 
and  continue  to  live  from  day  to  day, 
we  should  remember  what  President 
McKay  has  said  to  us.    If  we  will  live 


accordingly  day  by  day,  without  a  doubt 
the  Lord  will  bless,  inspire,  and  help 
us  in  all  of  our  endeavors. 

As  I  think  of  President  McKay,  I  see 
him  as  a  prophet  and  as  an  apostle  of 
the  Lord  Jesus  Christ.  He  has  always 
been  deeply  interested  in  the  young  peo- 
ple and  children,  as  well  as  older  indi- 
viduals. I  have  made  many  trips  with 
him  and  always  the  children  have 
looked  forward  to  the  opportunity  of 
coming  in  contact  with  him.  He  in- 
variably shakes  hands  with  them. 

I  cannot  help  recalling  Saturday  night 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  W1RTHL1N 


121 


when,  coming  to  our  priesthood  meeting 
here,  a  group  of  the  Aaronic  Priesthood 
were  standing  by  the  door  at  the  rear 
of  the  Tabernacle.  I  approached  them 
and  asked  if  they  did  not  care  to  come 
inside  and  find  a  seat.  They  said,  yes, 
they  would  like  to  have  a  seat,  but  in 
the  meantime  they  were  waiting  to  shake 
hands  with  President  McKay.  I  thought 
to  myself,  now,  if  all  of  these  young 
people  accept  our  President  as  a  prophet 
and  follow  his  leadership  as  he  directs 
them  in  their  lives,  they  will  live  the 
gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  and  be- 
come strong  in  carrying  forward  his 
work  here  upon  the  earth. 

I  also  think  of  President  McKay  as 
an  apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ,  and 
of  what  the  Savior  said  in  Luke, 

But  Jesus  called  them  unto  him,  and 
said,  Suffer  little  children  to  come  unto 
me,  and  forbid  them  not:  for  of  such  is 
the  kingdom  of  God.   (Luke   18:16.) 

I  am  sure  that  is  the  attitude  and  the 
feeling  of  our  prophet.  I  am  sure  that 
the  young  people  who  come  in  touch 
with  him  feel  that  they  are  actually 
shaking  hands  with  a  prophet,  with  an 
apostle  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that 
is  the  attitude  and  the  feeling  of  all  of 
us  after  having  attended  this  grand 
conference. 

Concerning  the  responsibility  of  par- 
ents to  their  children,  the  Lord  said  to 
the  Prophet  Joseph  Smith: 

But  I  have  commanded  you  to  bring  up 
your  children  in  light  and  truth.  (D  &  C 
93:40.) 

In  the  Lord's  words,  brethren  and  sis- 
ters, we  have  great  responsibility  in  see- 
ing that  our  children  are  brought  up  in 
the  light  and  truth  of  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  it  has  been  revealed 
through  the  Prophet  Joseph,  and  as  it 
is  further  revealed  from  time  to  time. 

I  also  think  of  the  wonderful  oppor- 
tunities all  of  our  young  people  enjoy 
in  this  great  Church,  wherein  they  hear 
and  are  taught  the  gospel  truths.  We 
have  our  great  Sunday  School  organiza- 
tion in  which  our  children,  regardless 
of  age,  may  become  acquainted  with 
the  teachings  and  life  of  Jesus  Christ; 
where  they  may  learn  about  the  estab- 
lishment of  the  Church  and  the  fact 
that  the   Prophet  Joseph   actually   saw 


the  Father  and  the  Son;  where  they 
learn  that  both  the  Aaronic  and  Mel- 
chizedek  Priesthood  were  given  back  to 
mankind.  They  are  also  taught  some- 
thing with  reference  to  the  Sacrament, 
its  purpose  and  what  it  represents. 

We  have  another  great  organization — 
the  Primary  Association,  which  is  in- 
terested in  teaching  our  young  children 
the  gospel,  teaching  them  the  manner 
of  prayer,  what  it  means  to  be  baptized 
and  to  become  a  member  of  the  Church 
of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints. 

There  is  another  great  organization, 
the  YWMIA,  where  our  young  women 
are  taught  the  necessity  of  living  a  life 
so  sweet  and  clean  that  the  day  will 
come  when  they  may  enjoy  the  blessings 
of  motherhood,  where  they  are  taught 
the  necessity  of  attending  Sacrament 
meeting  and  Sunday  School  and  of  tak- 
ing full  advantage  of  all  the  training 
available  in  the  YWMIA. 

To  provide  for  our  young  men  we 
have  the  YMMIA,  where  our  sons  may 
enjoy  the  opportunities  of  recreational 
activities,  public  speaking,  drama,  and 
singing.  In  the  YMMIA  our  young  men 
are  taught  to  live  lives  that  will  be 
modest  and  clean  that  when  the  time 
comes,  they  may  become  honorable 
fathers  and  be  in  a  position  to  receive 
divine  direction  from  on  high  in  the 
care  and  training  of  their  families. 

There  is  still  another  great  system  for 
the  blessing  of  our  youth,  one  estab- 
lished by  the  Presidency  of  the  Church: 
our  great  seminaries  of  religious  educa- 
tion, where  our  sons  and  daughters  are 
taught  the  gospel  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  where  their  questions  are  invited 
and  answers  given  by  trained  and  effi- 
cient teachers. 

Through  it  all,  brethren  and  sisters, 
as  we  think  of  what  has  and  is  being 
done  by  the  Church,  there  is  no  reason 
why  your  sons  and  daughters,  and  mine, 
should  not  become  the  kind  of  people 
the  Lord  needs  to  carry  on  this  great 
work  before  the  second  coming  of  Jesus 
the  Christ. 

After  all,  our  young  people  have  op- 
portunities of  rendering  service.  In 
most  instances,  if  they  have  followed  all 
of  the  advancements  they  have  had, 
taken  advantage  of  all  the  opportunities 
afforded  them  in  these  great  organiza- 
tions, and  particularly  in  the  seminary 


122 

Sunday,  April  7 

schools,  they  should  be  able  to  go  for- 
ward and  meet  their  Church  and  family 
responsibilities. 

I  do  not  suppose  the  Lord  is  looking 
so  much  at  ages  in  calling  individuals 
to  do  his  work  as  he  is  at  whether  or 
not  they  accept  him  and  live  the  gospel 
day  by  day.  I  often  think  of  Jesus  the 
Christ — I  know  you  are  all  familiar 
with  the  story  when  he  was  in  the 
temple  where  Joseph  and  Mary  found 
him.    When  they  came  to  him,  he  said: 

How  is  it  that  ye  sought  me?  wist  ye 
not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's  busi- 
ness?  (Luke  2:49.) 

At  the  age  of  twelve  he  realized  what 
his  assignment  was,  and  he  did  not 
hesitate  to  declare  to  the  world,  "... 
wist  ye  not  that  I  must  be  about  my 
Father's  business?" 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  am  sure  that 
all  our  young  people  who  have  taken, 
and  who  will  continue  to  take  advan- 
tage of  the  opportunities  afforded  in 
these  great  institutions  that  have  been 
prepared  for  them  will  say,  ".  .  .  wist  ye 
not  that  I  must  be  about  my  Father's 
business?" 

With  reference  to  the  matter  of  ages, 
as  I  said,  the  Lord  does  not  worry  so 
much  about  the  age  as  he  does  about 
the  loyalty  and  devotion  of  those  as- 
signed to  do  his  work. 

When  speaking  of  youth,  I  think  of 
the  accomplishments  of  Mormon  as  re- 
corded in  the  Book  of  Mormon.  As  a 
young  man  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  he  de- 
sired to  ask  the  Lord  a  question  in 
prayer,  and  his  answer  was  the  appear- 
ance of  the  Father.  Can  you  imagine 
God  the  Father  revealing  himself  to  a 
boy  at  the  age  of  fifteen?  Well,  that  is 
exactly  what  happened  in  Mormon's 
experience. 

At  the  age  of  sixteen,  Mormon  became 
the  general  of  the  Nephite  Army.  It  is 
something  to  think  about  that  at  the 
age  of  sixteen  Mormon  was  called  to 
be  the  general  of  the  great  army  of  the 
Nephite  people.  It  was  not  so  much 
a  matter  of  age.  The  thing  that  counted 
was  the  fact  that  Mormon  knew  the 
Lord,  and  the  Lord  knew  him,  and 
Mormon  met  his  assignment  with  all 
of  the  responsibilities  involved  therein 
and  was  very  successful. 

Then,    of    course,    we    think   of    the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

Prophet  Joseph  Smith  who,  at  the  age 
of  fourteen,  as  has  already  been  indi- 
cated here  many  times  during  this  con- 
ference, asked  the  Lord  where  the 
Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ  might 
be  found.  In  answer  to  his  prayer, 
there  appeared  the  Father  and  the  Son, 
and,  of  course,  he  was  called  upon  to 
establish  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ  to  which  you  and  I  belong. 

Then,  too,  I  think  of  President  Joseph 
F.  Smith  who,  at  the  age  of  fifteen,  was 
ordained  an  elder  and  sent  on  a  mis- 
sion into  the  Hawaiian  Islands.  Upon 
arriving  there,  he  found  he  was  among 
a  people  whose  language  he  did  not 
understand  and  who  did  not  under- 
stand his  language.  But  having  com- 
plete faith  in  God,  he  made  it  a  matter 
of  prayer  and,  thereafter,  was  able  to 
talk  with  that  people.  They  under- 
stood what  he  said,  and  he  understood 
what  they  said.  Within  one  year,  at 
the  age  of  sixteen,  he  became  the  presi- 
dent of  that  mission.  It  was  not  a  mat- 
ter of  age  again,  brethren  and  sisters, 
it  was  a  matter  of  understanding  the 
will  of  the  Lord  and  living  the  gospel 
of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ. 

It  is  glorious  to  think  of  the  oppor- 
tunities that  our  sons  and  daughters 
have  in  these  great  organizations  within 
the  Church.  But  I  am  sure  there  is  also 
a  tremendous  responsibility  that  de- 
volves upon  us  as  fathers  and  mothers. 
I  think  the  greatest  source  of  inspiration 
for  young  people  is  found,  of  course,  in 
the  home,  where  they  notice  the  atti- 
tudes and  the  feelings  of  the  father  and 
the  mother.  If  the  father  and  the 
mother  are  living  the  gospel  of  the 
Lord  Jesus  Christ  as  they  should,  there 
is  little  question  but  that  the  children 
will  follow  them  very  closely. 

I  think  it  is  a  wonderful  opportunity 
when  we  can  talk  with  our  children 
about  the  matter  of  prayer.  I  am  so  grate- 
ful for  my  dear  mother  who  taught  me 
to  pray.  I  recall  at  the  age  long  before 
we  children  were  reading,  during  the 
evening  hours,  she  would  call  us  to- 
gether and  say,  "Now,  we  will  have 
prayers."  She  would  then  explain  to 
us  the  existence  of  God  the  Father  and 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ.  Those  teachings 
became  a  reality  to  us,  that  God  lives, 
that  Jesus  is  the  Christ,  and  those  teach- 
ings remain  with  us  today.    When  she 


BISHOP  JOSEPH  L.  WIRTHLIN 


123 


talked  to  us  about  the  Prophet  Joseph, 
there  was  no  question  in  our  minds 
but  that  Joseph  Smith  actually  saw  the 
Father  and  the  Son. 

Therefore,  because  of  the  fact  that 
Mother  taught  us  how  to  pray,  why  we 
should  pray,  and  what  to  pray  for, 
prayer  has  always  been  a  great  source 
of  comfort  and  inspiration  to  me.  I 
always  enjoy  reading  the  admonitions 
of  the  Prophet  Amulek: 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  for  mercy;  for  he  is 
mighty  to  save. 

Yea,  humble  yourselves,  and  continue  in 
prayer  unto  him. 

Cry  unto  him  when  ye  are  in  your  fields, 
yea,  over  all  your  flocks. 

Cry  unto  him  in  your  houses,  yea,  over 
all  your  household,  both  morning,  mid-day, 
and  evening. 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  power  of 
your  enemies. 

Yea,  cry  unto  him  against  the  devil,  who 
is  an  enemy  to  all  righteousness. 

Cry  unto  him  over  the  crops  of  your 
fields,  that  ye  may  prosper  in  them. 

Cry  over  the  flocks  of  your  fields,  that 
they  may  increase. 

But  this  is  not  all;  ye  must  pour  out 
your  souls  in  your  closets,  and  your  secret 
places,  and  in  your  wilderness. 

Yea,  and  when  you  do  not  cry  unto  the 
Lord,  let  your  hearts  be  full,  drawn  out  in 
prayer  unto  him  continually  for  your  wel- 
fare, and  also  for  the  welfare  of  those  who 
are  around  you.  (Alma  34:18-27.) 

I  am  sure  that  our  sons  and  daughters 
will  have  that  same  attitude  and  that 
same  inspiration  if  we  teach  them  the 
necessity  of  prayer,  of  becoming  ac- 
quainted with  God  the  Father  and  with 
his  Son  Jesus  Christ,  and  also  of  remem- 
bering that  if  they  will  live  the  right 
kind  of  lives,  and  be  sweet  and  clean, 
they  will  enjoy  the  power  and  the  gift 
of  the  Holy  Ghost.  I  am  sure  they  do 
enjoy  these  blessings,  as  a  short  time 
ago  I  attended  a  fast  meeting  during 
which  a  little  girl  about  twelve  years 
of  age  stood  up  and  bore  her  testimony. 
Among  other  things,  she  said,  "I  know 
that  God  lives.  I  know  that  Jesus  Christ 
is  his  Son.  I  know  that  Joseph  Smith 
saw  the  Father  and  the  Son,"  and  she 
went  on  and  bore  her  testimony  very 
impressively. 

Brethren  and  sisters,  I  was  convinced 
as  I  listened  to  that  little  girl  that,  with- 
out a  doubt,  she  had  been  given  the 
gift  and  the  power  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 


If  our  sons  and  daughters  realize  the 
blessings  of  this  great  gift,  I  am  sure 
they  are  going  to  live  and  pray  and 
work  to  the  end  that  the  power  and 
the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost  will  come  to 
them  as  they  live  throughout  the  years. 

It  is  a  wonderful  thing,  as  I  said,  to 
teach  them  to  pray.  I  cannot  help 
thinking  of  another  experience  that 
comes  to  mind  in  connection  with  three 
children,  one  boy  and  two  girls,  the 
boy  about  ten  and  the  daughters  about 
eight  and  five.  It  was  a  Sunday  after- 
noon. The  mother  was  taken  suddenly 
ill.  The  doctor  was  called.  The  sisters 
of  the  Relief  Society  came  in  to  render 
whatever  service  they  could.  The  chil- 
dren could  not  get  into  the  room  because 
it  was  so  small.  They  walked  around 
the  house  as  they  wondered  about  their 
mother.  Finally,  one  of  them  said  to 
the  others,  "Mother  has  taught  us  time 
and  time  again  to  pray  if  we  have  diffi- 
culty and  trouble.  Now,  Mother  has 
trouble.  Mother  is  sick  and  ill.  Let 
us  pray."  So,  going  around  to  the  rear 
of  the  building,  they  found  a  little  old 
hut  where  coal  was  kept.  They  knelt 
down  in  the  coal,  and  first  the  son 
called  upon  the  Lord  to  bless  the  mother; 
secondly,  the  older  sister  prayed  and 
asked  the  Lord  to  heal  their  mother. 
That  day  before  the  sun  went  down, 
that  mother  was  comparatively  well. 

Brothers  and  sisters,  that  came  about 
because  three  children  had  been  taught 
to  believe  in  God.  They  believed  what 
their  mother  had  told  them,  that  if  they 
had  difficulty,  or  if  anyone  else  in  the 
family  had  difficulty,  to  call  upon  the 
Lord.  As  a  result  of  the  mother's 
teachings,  the  children  prayed  for  her, 
and  she  was  made  well. 

There  is  no  question  in  my  mind  but 
what  our  children  believe  in  God  and 
in  his  Son,  Jesus  Christ.  If  in  our 
homes,  we  will  teach  them  to  pray,  to 
remember  that  the  Lord  hears  and  an- 
swers prayers,  it  will  make  a  great  dif- 
ference to  them  in  the  way  they  will 
live  and  the  kind  of  Latter-day  Saints 
they  will  become. 

It  is  as  Brigham  Young  said  upon  one 
occasion: 

Whether  we  are  poor  or  rich,  if  we 
neglect  our  prayers  and  Sacrament  meet- 
ings, we  neglect  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord,  and 
the  spirit  of  darkness  comes  over  us. 


124 

Sunday,  April  7 

How  true  it  is  in  the  lives  of  indi- 
viduals who  fail  to  pray,  and  how  dark 
is  the  darkness  that  comes  into  their 
souls. 

And  again,  we  must  remember  this 
in  connection  with  our  children,  that  we 
owe  something  each  Sunday  to  the 
Lord.  The  matter  of  remembering  that 
the  Sabbath  is  a  holy  day  has  already 
been  stated  by  President  Joseph  Fielding 
Smith.  We  should  remember  that  the 
Sabbath  day  is  the  Lord's  day — the  holy 
day.  Concerning  our  responsibilities, 
President  Brigham  Young  said  that  we 
should  teach  our  children  to  attend 
Sacrament  meeting.  His  statement  was, 
"After  the  Sunday  School  is  over,  let 
the  parents  take  the  pains  to  bring  their 
children  to  meeting." 

Of  course,  we  all  know  the  meeting 
President  Young  had  in  mind — the  Sac- 
rament meeting  where  our  children 
have  the  privilege  of  partaking  of  the 
Sacrament  and  learning  of  its  signifi- 
cance. 

I  am  sure  if  our  sons  and  daughters 
have  that  experience  and  realize  they 
are  partaking  of  the  Sacrament,  they 
will  understand  its  sacred  purpose,  and 
out  of  it  there  will  come  a  great  source 
of  inspiration.    I  am  sure  of  that. 

Now,  concerning  the  Aaronic  Priest- 
hood: Fathers  and  mothers  who  have 
sons  who  are  deacons,  teachers,  or  priests, 
please  help  them  to  realize  that  they 
have  the  greatest  gift  of  God  to  his  sons. 
With  that  thought  in  their  minds,  and 
living  lives  that  are  sweet  and  clean, 
and  with  the  encouragement  of  Father 
and  Mother,  without  a  doubt  they  will 
receive  the  assignments  that  are  given 
to  them  from  time  to  time,  and  the 
faithful  performance  of  their  responsi- 
bilities will  be  a  great  source  of  inspira- 
tion to  live  as  the  servants  of  the  Lord 
should  live. 

It  is  wonderful  to  know  that  in  a 
home  where  probably  the  father  holds 
the  Melchizedek  Priesthood,  he  may 
have  a  son  who  is  a  deacon,  a  teacher, 
or  a  priest.  What  an  inspiration  it  must 
be  when  the  father  will  say  to  his  sons, 
"Now,  Sons,  let's  go  to  our  meeting 
together.  Let  us  be  together.  We  both 
hold  the  priesthood.  You  hold  the 
Aaronic  Priesthood,  and  I  hold  the 
Melchizedek  Priesthood."  By  attending 
their  priesthood  meetings  together,  I  am 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

sure  it  must  be  a  great  source  of  inspira- 
tion to  the  father,  the  mother,  and,  of 
course,  to  the  sons  who  are  endeavoring 
to  carry  out  the  assignments  that  come 
to  them. 

In  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  our  people  have  so  many  re- 
sponsibilities, so  much  that  brings  to 
them  the  sure  knowledge  that  this  is 
the  work  of  the  Lord. 

In  conclusion,  if  we  continue  to  pray, 
there  is  no  doubt  in  my  mind  but  that 
we  will  always  have  divine  direction 
in  all  of  our  endeavors.  I  am  sure  we 
will.  Should  there  come  a  time  of  diffi- 
culty and  trouble,  we  should  remember 
what  the  Savior  said  through  the  Proph- 
et Joseph  Smith:  "Pray  always,  that  ye 
may  not  faint.  .  .  ."  That  ye  may  not 
faint!  I  am  sure,  brethren  and  sisters, 
that  in  our  lives  we  have  some  difficul- 
ties perhaps  when  we  do  feel  faint.  To 
all  such,  the  Savior  said: 

Pray  always,  that  ye  may  not  faint,  until 
I  come.  Behold,  and  lo,  I  will  come  quickly, 
and  receive  you  unto  myself.  Amen.  (D  &  C 
88:126.) 

I  am  sure  that  if  we  will  all  live  the 
gospel  as  we  should,  we  will  enjoy  its 
blessings,  and  when  we  have  difficulties, 
through  the  power  of  prayer,  the  Lord 
will  bless  and  inspire  us  in  our  work 
and  in  our  homes. 

Now,  may  the  Lord  continue  to  bless 
us  and  so  inspire  us  that  each  one  of 
our  children  will  be  happy  and  thrilled 
to  follow  our  attitudes  in  the  matter  of 
living  the  gospel  as  it  has  been  restored. 

My  humble  testimony  to  you  is  that 
this  is  the  Church  of  the  Lord  Jesus 
Christ,  that  he  who  stands  at  the  head 
is  a  prophet,  an  apostle,  who  receives 
from  time  to  time  the  mind  and  the 
will  of  our  Heavenly  Father  as  it  should 
be  given  to  his  people  for  their  blessing, 
for  their  benefit,  and  for  their  inspira- 
tion, which  I  humbly  say  in  the  name 
of  Jesus  Christ.     Amen. 


President  David  O.  McKay: 

Bishop  Joseph  L.  Wirthlin,  Presiding 
Bishop  of  the  Church,  has  just  con- 
cluded speaking.  We  shall  now  hear 
from  Elder  Marion  D.  Hanks,  member 
of  the  First  Council  of  Seventy. 


125 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 

Of  the  First  Council  of  the  Seventy 


The  Seventy  are  traditionally  minute- 
men.  I  have  just  been  multiplied. 
Under  the  stimulation  of  the  great 
song  we  have  sung  together,  I  should 
like  to  put  into  the  record  a  story  and 
a  statement  which  I  think  President 
McKay  probably  does  not  know  of,  but 
which  I  think  should  be  known  to  him 
and  to  all  of  us. 

In  the  last  few  years  it  has  been  my 
occasional  blessing  to  take  distinguished 
visitors  to  our  city,  who  have  come  to 
Temple  Square,  into  the  offices  of  the 
President  of  the  Church  to  greet  him, 
to  be  greeted  by  him,  and  to  feel  the 
strength  and  stimulation  and  love  which 
always  emanates  from  him. 

A  few  months  ago  Brother  Evans 
and  I  with  some  others  were  privileged 
to  attend  a  conference  in  the  office  of 
President  McKay  with  one  of  the  lead- 
ing labor  leaders  in  America,  possibly 
as  influential  and  important  a  man  as 
there  is  in  his  field.  He  was  accom- 
panied by  his  wife  and  two  little  daugh- 
ters, and  the  experience  was  a  beautiful 
and  impressive  one.  There  was  no 
posturing,  no  pretense  or  effort  to  im- 
press by  President  McKay — only  genuine 
friendliness,  interest,  and  love.  The  part 
of  the  story  I  would  want  remembered 
and  on  the  record  was  what  occurred 
when  we  had  left  the  office.  We  stood 
in  the  halls  of  the  Church  Office  Build- 
ing, and  this  man,  who  in  his  employ- 
ment and  administration  influences  the 
lives  of  many  millions  of  men,  said  to 
those  of  us  who  stood  with  him,  and  he 
said  it  with  a  moist  eye,  "I  have  lived 
in  many  lands.  I  have  been  in  the 
presence  of  kings  and  presidents  and 
rulers,  and  I  want  to  say  to  you  men 
that  I  do  not  think  our  generation  will 
produce  another  character  like  that." 

This  has  happened  not  once,  but  many 
times.  And  for  no  other  purpose  than 
to  express  my  own  faith  and  convic- 
tions about  President  McKay  and  the 
office  and  calling  which  he  holds,  I 
repeat  to  you  who  may  not  have  enjoyed 
such  privilege  my  observation  that  many 
men  who  are  good  and  stalwart  and 
powerful  in  their  own  right  recognize 
in  him  who  leads  us  a  great  man  and 


an    authorized    representative    of    our 
Heavenly  Father. 

There  have  been  many  things  in  this 
conference  which  have  inspired  sincere 
gratitude  in  me.  With  no  desire  to  be 
lengthy  I  would  like  to  express  my  ap- 
preciation for  the  return  to  the  measure 
of  health  which  they  enjoy  of  our  two 
good  Brethren  in  the  Council  of  the 
Seventy.  We  have  learned  to  love  and 
respect  Brother  Kirkham  and  Brother 
Hunter  and  feel  for  them  the  esteem  and 
brotherhood  which  this  wonderful  serv- 
ice opportunity  should  engender  in  us. 

I  would  like  humbly  to  express  an- 
other feeling  of  gratitude.  There  sits 
in  this  building  today  a  man  who  was 
among  the  very  first  to  whom  I  bore 
testimony  of  the  gospel  on  these  grounds 
when  I  came  out  of  the  service  eleven 
years  ago.  He  is  here  today  as  a  bishop 
of  a  ward  in  one  of  the  great  new  stakes 
in  the  Church.  Having  been  touched 
with  the  spirit  of  the  gospel  on  Temple 
Square,  he,  through  his  own  earnest 
efforts,  through  the  effective  teaching  of 
good  missionaries  and  the  living  of  the 
gospel  by  the  members  of  the  Church  in 
his  home  town,  soon  came  to  a  knowl- 
edge of  the  truth  and  accepted  it. 

It  is  a  privilege  also  to  express  grati- 
tude for  the  magnificent  music  which 
we  have  enjoyed  here.  The  Tabernacle 
Choir  is  known  to  the  whole  Church 
as  a  great  missionary  organization,  and 
yet  perhaps  we  who  work  on  these 
grounds  are  more  aware,  through  our 
opportunities,  of  their  effectiveness  than 
others  could  be.  I  honor  them.  During 
this  conference  we  have  heard  two  other 
groups — a  wonderful  choir  of  young 
singers  from  Brigham  Young  University, 
and  a  great,  and  to  me  thrilling,  group 
of  young  people  from  the  Institute  of 
Religion  at  the  University  of  Utah. 

I  have  great  love  for  these  young  peo- 
ple, and  I  desire  to  express  publicly  my 
appreciation  for  the  privilege  of  having 
been  a  teacher  of  some  of  them.  I 
would  like  to  say  how  proud  I  was  of 
the  group  from  the  Institute  of  Religion. 
They  have  not  had  the  privilege  of 
singing  here  before  and  of  being  thus 
excellently      represented      before      the 


126 

Sunday,  April  7 

Church.  Anything  fine  that  can  be 
said  of  other  young  men  and  women  in 
the  Church  can  properly  be  said  of  them, 
for  they  are  intelligent  and  loyal  and 
steadfast.  Not  all  of  you  would  under- 
stand the  pressures  that  are  upon  them 
in  their  daily  learning.  I  want  to  ex- 
press my  gratitude  and  faith  and  confi- 
dence in  the  good  men  who  teach  them, 
some  of  whom  also  taught  me,  and  I 
express  my  own  appreciation  for  the 
great  contribution  in  faith  and  good 
lives  that  has  come  out  of  that  institute 
and  others  like  it. 

There  are  a  few  simple  suggestions 
I  would  like  to  make  today  to  these  who 
are  young. 

Some  weeks  ago  it  was  my  privilege 
to  go  into  one  of  the  great  subterranean 
caverns  in  the  southwestern  part  of  our 
land.  Thousands  upon  thousands  of 
people  visit  it  annually.  The  day  I 
went  into  it,  far  below  the  surface  of  the 
earth,  I  was  in  the  company  of  a  large 
group,  but  no  one  whom  I  knew  person- 
ally. The  path  on  which  we  walked 
through  this  great  cavern  over  a  period 
of  more  than  an  hour  was  quite  a 
narrow  one,  permitting  two  to  walk 
abreast,  if  a  bit  crowded.  The  trail  was 
lighted  in  sections  as  we  went  and  was 
very  clearly  marked  with  white  stones 
at  the  edges  and  with  signs  all  along 
the  way.  We  were  accompanied  by 
three  forest  rangers  and  met  others  as 
we  went.  I  walked  near  the  front  and 
heard  some  of  the  comments  of  the 
ranger  as  we  were  led  into  the  mag- 
nificent scenery  of  this  underground 
wonderland. 

As  we  walked,  we  passed  beneath  a 
huge,  high  dome.  Below  it,  appropri- 
ately named,  was  a  deep  hole  called 
"The  Bottomless  Pit."  There  was  con- 
jecture among  the  people  as  to  what 
might  have  caused  this  empty  place  in 
the  earth.  Some  thought  it  might  have 
been  an  early  fossil  deposit,  others  an 
area  of  highly  soluble  materials,  others 
the  result  of  an  earth  movement  or 
some  other  like  occurrence  of  nature. 
It  was  discussed  for  a  time  with  no  con- 
clusion reached.  The  ranger  informed 
the  party  that  there  is  divided  opinion 
on  the  question  among  the  experts. 

A  little  farther  along  the  trail  we 
came  into  an  area  where  there  was 
another    vast    vaulted    dome,    but    the 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

debris  from  that  cavity  lay  below  it  in 
a  mountainous  pile.  Again  there  were 
comments  along  the  trail.  One  said: 
"My,  I'll  bet  there  was  a  tremendous 
clap  of  noise  when  that  fell!"  An  army 
man  replied,  "Do  you  really  think 
there  was?  After  all,  there  was  no  one 
here  to  hear  it!" 

They  discussed  this  issue  at  some 
length,  whether  or  not  in  the  absence 
of  someone  to  hear,  noise  actually  oc- 
curs. I  listened  and  said  nothing,  but 
thought  of  Bishop  Berkeley,  Irish  philos- 
opher, whose  theory  was  that  "to  be  is 
to  be  perceived,"  that  is,  that  so-called 
material  things  exist  only  in  being  per- 
ceived— if  it  is  not  perceived,  it  does  not 
exist.  It  is  said  that  a  group  of  the 
bishop's  students  at  Oxford  taught  him 
the  true  nature  of  reality  one  very  dark 
evening  when  they  placed  a  tree  stump 
on  a  certain  unlighted  path  where  he 
habitually  walked.  His  perception  of 
the  stump  was  said  to  be  a  realistic 
shock  to  George  Berkeley.  (Laughter.) 

Well,  when  we  left  the  cavern,  the 
people  were  still  discussing  whether  or 
not  when  things  fall  there  is  a  noise 
in  the  absence  of  human  ears  to  hear 
it. 

As  I  left  the  cavern,  I  thought  to  my- 
self that  these  may  be  legitimate  fields 
for  inquiry,  and  it  may  be  that  some- 
day someone  will  discover  the  answers, 
though  that  seems  doubtful.  But  would 
it  not  be  a  most  foolish  thing  to  abandon 
the  cave  because  we  do  not  know  the 
answers?  Suppose  someone  should  take 
it  into  his  mind  that  all  the  glory  of 
this  wonder-work,  God's  handiwork, 
should  be  abandoned  and  never  en- 
joyed more  because  those  mysterious 
questions  were  not  answered.  Suppose 
one  with  ready  access  to  the  place  and 
with  personal  knowledge  of  its  great 
beauty  should  decide  that  he  would 
never  enter  more  because  there  were 
things  he  did  not  fully  understand 
about  it — or  go  about  seeking  to  dissuade 
others  from  enjoying  the  majesty  of  it 
because  it  took  effort  to  reach  and  there 
were  certain  (to  him,  here  and  now) 
hard-to-understand  problems.  Would 
not  this  be  foolish  and  tragic? 

Do  you  know  that  some  of  our  won- 
derful young  people  of  great  potential 
intelligence  and  capacity  and  contribu- 
tion   are    abandoning    their    faith    and 


ELDER  MARION  D.  HANKS 


127 


their  way  of  life  in  the  gospel,  with  all 
the  strength  and  beauty  of  it,  because 
they  have  come  to  questions  for  which 
they  have  not  learned  satisfactory  an- 
swers? 

May  I  read  you  a  statement  from  the 
pen  of  one  of  the  most  learned  among 
us,  who  left  us  a  legacy  of  scientific 
research  and  useful  knowledge,  and  of 
great  faith.  Dr.  Widtsoe,  after  en- 
couraging "mature  examination,"  said: 

"Wise  men  do  not  throw  the  Church 
overboard  because  they  have  not  satis- 
fied themselves  concerning  every  prin- 
ciple of  the  gospel.  Under  the  law  of 
progression  every  principle  may  in  time 
find  lodgment  in  the  inner  conscious- 
ness of  the  seeker." 

To  abandon  the  marvelous  demonstra- 
ble truths  of  the  gospel  because  there 
are  some  questions  one  cannot  satis- 
factorily resolve  would  be  foolishness  in 
the  extreme.  As  President  Clark  said 
the  other  evening,  "A  foolish  man  can 
ask  questions  that  the  wisest  cannot 
answer."  It  is  no  reproach  to  our  re- 
ligion or  to  us  not  to  be  able  to  answer 
definitively,  categorically,  finally,  every 
question  that  can  be  asked.  I  plead 
with  you,  and  I  talk  not  theoretically 
but  with  some  of  your  faces  in  my  mind, 
not  to  abandon  all  that  is  good  in  your 
religion  because  there  are  some  things 
you  do  not  understand. 

Now,  President  Clark  in  his  two  great 
sermons  in  the  evening  meetings,  Brother 
Evans  in  his  conference  address  and  in 
this  morning's  wonderful  short  sermon, 
and  President  Richards  this  morning, 
have  all  alluded  in  some  measure  to 
something  I  would  now  like  to  say.  I 
eould  not  presume  to  add  to  what  they 
have  said,  but  I  can  raise  my  voice  with 
them  and  testify  as  to  my  own  experience 
and  observation.  What  I  say  I  say 
humbly,  knowing  my  own  limitations, 
and  not  from  any  position  of  personal 
arrogance  or  assumed  unusual  compe- 
tence. I  would  speak  to  some  who  in- 
fluence these  young  people  in  causing 
them  to  abandon  what  they  believe. 

Along  the  trail  down  in  the  cavern, 
well-marked  and  defined  as  it  was,  with 
signs  and  guides  to  make  clear  that  we 
were  to  stay  on  it,  some  "boy  play" 
occurred  between  some  young  Scouts  in 
uniform  who  walked  the  trail  just  a 
short  distance  behind  me,  supervised  by 


a  scoutmaster  and  several  assistants. 
The  boys  were  jostling  and  pushing  each 
other  all  the  way  along,  trying  to  get 
some  adventurous,  "progressive"  soul  to 
get  off  the  trail  and  go  out  and  explore 
a  little.  I  watched  it  all  and  observed 
the  instance  I  now  think  of,  when  a 
larger  boy  who  had  been  tantalizing  a 
younger  one,  pushed  him  off  the  trail 
and  into  a  dimly  lighted,  muddy  area. 
The  boy  went  near  the  edge  of  a  crevice, 
and  with  an  outcry  that  startled  us  all 
and  got  the  rangers  quickly  to  his  side, 
signalized  the  danger  he  was  in  and  the 
possibility  that  he  might  have  perished 
in  the  darkness. 

You  see,  along  this  trail  at  periodic 
intervals  the  ranger  would  stop  and 
bend  over  and  turn  a  switch  which  was 
hidden  from  the  view  of  the  rest  of  us, 
and  an  area  ahead  of  us  would  sudden- 
ly become  lighted.  The  ranger  at  the 
back,  when  we  were  safely  through  a 
certain  area,  would  turn  off  the  light. 
The  youngster  had  gone  into  a  sec- 
tion of  the  cave  where  the  light  did  not 
reach. 

I  thought,  as  the  lights  went  on  and 
off,  how  realistic  this  experience  is  to 
life.  We  talk  of  questions,  some  solv- 
able. We  know  that  the  Lord  has  en- 
couraged us  to  seek  truth,  to  "knock," 
"ask,"  and  "search  diligently."  Yet 
there  come  times  when  we  reach  the 
end  of  our  capacity  to  reason  and  to 
understand.  We  must  learn  to  walk  by 
faith.  There  has  been  given  us  enough 
light  to  walk  the  paths  we  are  here  to 
tread.  As  the  Lord  in  his  wisdom  de- 
sires that  we  have  more  light,  we  have 
the  assurance  that  it  will  be  given.  I 
bear  my  witness  that  from  the  beginning 
of  the  history  of  the  Church  the  lights 
have  come  on  when  the  need  arose.  It 
has  always  been  so;  it  is  so  now;  it  will 
always  be. 

When  the  little  boy  was  brought  back 
on  the  trail,  the  ranger  was  very  angry, 
chastised  him  severely,  declared  him 
banished  from  the  group,  and  started 
to  send  him  away,  while  the  real  culprit 
in  the  case  stood  silent.  He  was  not  go- 
ing to  be  punished,  just  the  boy.  Then 
the  scoutmaster  spoke  up  and  said,  "If 
he  goes,  this  boy  ought  to  go,  too."  He 
was  a  wise  man.  The  ranger  talked  to 
them  both  for  a  moment,  and  on  prom- 
ise of  good  behavior,  allowed  both  of 


128 

Sunday,  April  7 

them  to  stay.  Though  God  and  wise 
men  may  forgive,  there  is  no  happiness 
to  be  found  in  leaving  the  narrow  path 
of  gospel  principle  to  adventure  in 
strange  paths  and  forbidden  ways,  in 
the  enticement  of  dark  places,  in  "look- 
ing beyond  the  mark,"  as  Jacob  said. 

We  left  the  cavern  a  while  later. 
My  teacher's  mind  and  my  interest  in 
youth  had  brought  me  to  some  renewed 
conclusions,  and  I  pass  them  on  earnest- 
ly to  mature  persons  who  are  given  to 
assisting  young  people  off  the  trail.  The 
dictionary  has  a  word  for  them:  icono- 
clast. It  is  denned  as,  "One  who  attacks 
cherished  beliefs  as  shams."  What  if 
the  cherished  beliefs  that  are  attacked 
along  the  trail  are  true?  What  if  they 
are  the  very  beliefs  that  make  these  boys 
and  girls  the  worthwhile,  promising 
people  they  are?  What  if  the  founda- 
tions of  their  faith  are  effectively  shaken 
at  this  crucial  period,  and  they  dangle, 
with  no  substantial  footings  to  stand  on? 
President  McKay  in  his  opening  address 
quoted  the  economist,  Babson,  from 
whose  writings  I  should  now  like  to 
read  a  sentence: 

"Many  of  the  most  important  men  in 
America,  who  are  what  they  are  be- 
cause of  what  they  learned  at  their 
mother's  knee,  now  deny  their  own  and 
other  people's  children  those  same 
blessings,  in  the  name  of  'liberalism'  or 
'progressivism'  or  'emancipation.' " 

Such  men,  Babson  says,  deny  others 
the  very  blessings  that  made  them  what 
they  are. 

Do  you  know  that  when  one  who  has 
influence  with  youth,  be  he  teacher, 
leader,  or  parent,  seriously  weakens  the 
foundations  upon  which  a  young  person 
has  built,  by  faith-destroying  challenges 
the  youngester  is  not  yet  equipped  to 
meet,  he  fashions  a  disciple  who  has 
been  effectively  cut  loose  from  funda- 
mentals at  a  time  when  he  needs  most 
to  rely  on  them?  The  challenger  may 
himself  be  a  moral,  educated,  well- 
meaning  person  of  integrity,  doing  what 
he  does  in  the  name  of  honesty  and 
truth.  His  own  character  may  have  been 
formed  in  an  atmosphere  of  faith  and 
conviction  which  through  his  influence 
he  may  now  help  to  destroy  in  his 
young  follower.  "Disenchanted"  him- 
self in  his  mature  years,  he  turns  his 
powers  on  an  immature  mind  and  leaves 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Third  Day 

it  ready  prey  for  nostrums  and  super- 
stitions and  behavior  he  himself  would 
disdain. 

Let  me  ask  a  question  or  two,  as  I 
hurry  to  a  conclusion.  To  you  who 
influence  this  boy,  to  "emancipate" 
him,  in  your  way  of  thinking,  may  I 
ask  you:  Have  you  really  helped  him 
develop  his  capacity  to  contribute  to  the 
world's  useful  knowledge  and  useful 
work?  In  which  particular  is  he  a  better 
person  when  you  get  through  with  him? 
In  what  aspect  of  life  has  his  ability 
to  serve  been  strengthened?  Does  he 
love  God  and  his  fellow  men  more?  Is 
he  a  more  moral,  clean,  virtuous,  de- 
cent man?  Is  he  a  more  faithful  hus- 
band, father,  or  son?  Has  he  learned 
more  gratefully  to  honor  his  father  and 
mother?  Does  he  merit  their  increased 
respect  and  esteem  as  he  matures?  Is 
his  power  for  good  increased?  Has  he 
acquired  a  greater  influence  for  moti- 
vating others  to  constructive,  participat- 
ing citizenship?  Is  he  a  more  worthy, 
admirable  person  to  his  younger  broth- 
ers and  sisters?  Has  he  experienced 
increase  of  generosity,  unselfishness, 
thoughtfulness  for  the  needs  of  others 
through  your  tutelage?  Is  he  more  kind, 
considerate,  gentle,  sensitive?  Does  he 
have  more  sympathy,  love,  and  under- 
standing for  those  who  are  distressed? 
Does  he  live  life  more  courageously, 
manfully?  Will  he  endure  tribulation 
more  patiently  and  understanding^  be- 
cause of  you? 

I  have  answers  to  these  questions. 
Again  I  do  not  talk  from  theory  but 
with  faces  and  lives  in  my  mind.  My 
experience  is  that  when  you  get  through 
with  him,  as  fine  a  man  as  you  are,  as 
much  respect  as  I  may  have  for  your 
education  and  your  brilliance  and  your 
effectiveness  and  your  personal  integrity, 
you  have  not  improved  him  in  any  of 
these  important  ways.  He  may  be,  in 
fact,  he  often  is,  cynical,  destructively 
critical,  vain,  high-minded,  impervious 
to  instruction.  Quite  often  he  has  ac- 
quired habits  and  attitudes  toward 
society  and  moral  behavior  which  break 
the  hearts  of  those  who  love  him  most 
and  which  you  yourself  would  never 
stoop  to.  He  sneers  at  his  parents,  those 
whom  he  once  respected,  and  often  at 
God  and  holy  things.  It  is  quite  a 
responsibility  you  have  assumed. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


129 


May  I  commend  to  you  what  Richard 
L.  Evans  said  this  morning:  "A  teacher 
is  responsible  for  the  total  effect  of  his 
teaching."  So  is  it  true  of  a  parent,  an 
official,  a  leader  of  youth.  What  is  the 
total  effect  of  your  influence  on  the 
young? 

I  want  to  mention  one  other  thought 
that  came  in  the  cavern.  As  we  walked 
in  that  subterranean  beauty,  I  thought 
what  each  of  you  under  like  circum- 
stances would  have  thought.  I  thought 
how  wonderful  it  would  be  if  my  lovely 
wife  and  little  girls  could  be  with  me; 
I  wanted  to  share  with  them  the  won- 
der, the  inspiration,  the  nearness  to  God 
I  felt  then.  A  verse  of  scripture  came 
to  mind.    It  is  recorded  in  First  Nephi: 

And  it  came  to  pass  that  I  did  go  forth 
and  partake  of  the  fruit  thereof;  and  I  be- 
held that  it  was  most  sweet,  above  all  that 
I  ever  before  tasted.  Yea,  and  I  beheld  that 
the  fruit  thereof  was  white,  to  exceed  all 
the  whiteness  that  I  had  ever  seen. 

And  as  I  partook  of  the  fruit  thereof  it 
filled  my  soul  with  exceeding  great  joy; 
wherefore,  I  began  to  be  desirous  that  my 
family  should  partake  of  it  also;  ...  (1 
Nephi   8:11-12.) 

We  should  all  desire  to  share  the 
goodness  and  beauty  and  truth  of  the 
gospel  with  others  of  God's  children. 

In  the  story  of  Ammon's  missionary 
work  among  the  Lamanites  there  is  one 
statement  the  unusual  language  of  which 
sometimes  evokes  mirth  in  a  student 
when  he  first  hears  it,  but  which  to  me 
is  one  of  the  most  sacred  and  provocative 
verses  in  all  the  record.  The  king  has 
been  stricken  and  lies  as  if  he  were 
dead.  Ammon  is  summoned  by  the 
queen,  his  loving,  loyal  wife.   She  says: 

...  I  would  that  ye  should  go  in  and  see 
my  husband,  for  he  has  been  laid  upon  his 
bed  for  the  space  of  two  days  and  two 
nights;  and  some  say  that  he  is  not  dead, 
but  others  say  that  he  is  dead  and  that  he 


stinketh,  and  that  he  ought  to  be  placed 
in  the  sepulchre;  but  as  for  myself,  to  me 
he  doth  not  stink.  (Alma  19:5.) 

The  love  of  this  faithful  wife  for  her 
beloved  husband  seems  typical  to  me  of 
the  love  which  will  obtain  in  the  heav- 
enly kingdom  and  which  should  here 
characterize  our  relationships  with  those 
dear  to  us. 

I  pray  that  the  Spirit  of  the  Lord  will 
guide  the  young  people  of  the  Church 
as  they  seek  answers  to  their  questions, 
for  this  is  encouraged,  that  they  may 
seek  "by  study  and  also  by  faith";  that 
they  may  with  dedication  and  honest 
effort  seek  for  useful  knowledge,  for 
the  Lord  has  said  that  "to  be  learned  is 
good,"  if  we  hearken  to  the  counsels  of 
God. 

I  caution  those  who  influence  young 
people,  and  ask  you  to  look  at  the  total 
effect  of  your  teaching.  I  bear  my  wit- 
ness as  to  the  truthfulness  of  the  message 
of  the  Prophet  Joseph  in  his  testimony 
of  the  mission  of  the  Lord  Jesus  Christ, 
and  of  the  restoration,  in  the  name  of 
Jesus  Christ.    Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

We  have  just  listened  to  Elder  Marion 

D.  Hanks,  member  of  the  First  Council 
of  Seventy. 

There  are  two  other  members  of  the 
General  Authorities  from  whom  we 
should  be  pleased  to  hear,  but  in  con- 
sideration of  their  health  we  will  re- 
frain from  calling  on  them.  They  are 
Elder  Spencer  W.  Kimball  of  the  Coun- 
cil of  the  Twelve,  and  Elder  Thomas 

E.  McKay  of  the  Assistants.  We  as- 
sure them  they  have,  and  they  know 
they  have,  our  faith  and  prayers  for  the 
blessings  of  the  Lord  to  attend  them 
and  to  give  them  strength,  vitality, 
wherein  they  may  now  be  suffering  from 
physical  weakness. 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


At  the  conclusion  of  this  great  con- 
ference, I  am  sure  you  would  have 
me  express  appreciation  to  all  who 
have  contributed  to  it,  including  those 
who  have  so  inspired  us  with  their  up- 
lifting sermons.    I  shall  repeat,  of  course, 


some  expressions  which  we  have  already 
given  directly  at  the  time  of  service. 

You  have  been  blessed  by  the  sight 
of  these  beautiful  flowers,  so  profusely 
displayed  before  you — the  calla  lilies 
from  the  high  priests'   quorum  of  the 


130 


GENERAL  CONFERENCE 


Sunday,  April  7 

Oakland-Berkeley  Stake;  the  daffodils 
from  Puyallup  Valley  Daffodil  Festival, 
Inc.,  sent  here  through  the  Tacoma 
Stake;  the  spring  flowers  here  from  the 
Phoenix  and  the  East  Phoenix  stakes; 
the  bird  of  paradise  flowers  from  the  Los 
Angeles  Temple  Grounds.  We  express 
appreciation  for  the  thoughtfulness  of 
all  who  have  desired  to  make  pleasant 
these  gatherings  through  these  "mes- 
sengers of  love." 

We  thank  representatives  of  the  public 
press  for  their  fair  and  accurate  reports 
throughout  the  sessions  of  conference; 
the  city  officials,  Chief  W.  Cleon 
Skousen,  and  traffic  officers  for  their 
co-operation  in  handling  the  increased 
traffic  here  in  the  city.  We  express  ap- 
preciation to  the  fire  department  and 
to  the  Red  Cross  for  being  on  hand  to 
render  any  service  that  might  be  needed. 

To  the  Tabernacle  ushers,  who  have 
rendered  service  early  and  late  in  seat- 
ing the  great  audiences! 

For  assistance  rendered  by  the  various 
radio  and  television  stations,  here  in 
our  own  city  and  state,  and  other  states 
named  in  the  various  sessions  of  the 
conference,  we  are  grateful.  This  truly 
has  been  the  means  of  permitting  tens 
of  thousands  of  people  to  hear  the  pro- 
ceedings of  the  127th  annual  general 
conference  of  the  Church. 

We  appreciate  the  choirs.  Never  have 
we  had  better  service  than  the  choral 
groups  have  rendered  during  these  three 
days,  beginning  Friday  with  the  Brig- 
ham  Young  University  combined  chor- 
uses, with  Norman  Gulbrandsen  and 
Newell  B.  Weight  conducting;  the  In- 
stitute of  Religion  chorus  from  the 
University  of  Utah,  with  David  Austin 
Shand  conducting;  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  male  chorus  last  evening  under 
the  direction  of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall — 
all  these  choir  seats  filled — a  larger 
group,  I  think,  than  we  have  ever  had 
before.  It  was  appropriate,  too,  because 
it  was  the  largest  priesthood  meeting 
ever  held  in  the  Church.  And  now, 
today,  we  appreciate  the  singing  of  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  under  the  direction 
of  Brother  Cornwall.  We  express  ap- 
preciation, also,  to  the  organists,  Alex- 
ander Schreiner  and  Frank  W.  Asper, 
and  Brother  Roy  M.  Darley,  assistant 
organist. 


Third  Day 

I  should  like  to  say  just  a  word  in 
conclusion. 

I  do  not  know  how  many  of  you 
heard  Brother  Marion  G.  Romney  this 
morning.  I  hope  all  of  you  listened 
to  his  excellent  address  over  the  Church- 
of-the-Air  broadcast,  speaking  about  the 
reality  of  inspiration  from  God  to  indi- 
viduals. I  was  reminded  of  what  Peter 
said.  (My  fellow  workers  know  that  I 
am  rather  partial  to  Peter,  the  chief 
Apostle  of  the  Meridian  of  Times — a 
practical  man,  a  successful  fisherman.) 
But  as  I  have  read  his  life,  I  find  that 
he  rose  from  a  seeming  indifference  to 
religion  to  the  heights  of  spirituality, 
and  I  find  confirmation  of  that  in  the 
following  reference  in  his  First  Epistle 
General.  He  refers  to  an  "inheritance 
incorruptible,  and  undefiled,"  and  that 
inheritance  the  "lively  hope  by  the 
resurrection  of  Jesus  Christ  from  the 
dead,"  a  hope  that  "fadeth  not  away, 
reserved  in  heaven  for  you, 

"Who  are  kept  by  the  power  of  God 
through  faith  unto  salvation  ready  to 
be  revealed  in  the  last  time. 

"Wherein  ye  greatly  rejoice,  though 
now  for  a  season,  if  need  be,  ye  are  in 
heaviness  through  manifold  tempta- 
tions:" (See  I  Peter  1:3-6.) 

Then  he  continues  in  his  Second 
Epistle,  referring  to  the  sacredness  of 
the  priesthood,  "that  by  these  ye  might 
be  partakers  of  the  divine  nature;  .  .  ." 
(II  Peter  1:4.) 

Happy  is  the  man  who  has  experi- 
enced that  relationship  to  his  Maker, 
wherein  we  are  "partakers  of  the  divine 
nature."  That  is  a  reality,  and  I  so 
testify  to  you  here  in  this  sacred  hour. 

Then  Peter  says  that  we  must  go  on 
from  that  .  .  . 

".  .  .  giving  all  diligence,  add  to  your 
faith  virtue;  and  to  virtue  knowledge; 

"And  to  knowledge  temperance;  and 
to  temperance  patience;  and  to  patience 
godliness; 

"And  to  godliness  brotherly  kindness; 
and  to  brotherly  kindness  charity." 
(Ibid.,  1:5-7.) 

Note  those  virtues  from  that  practi- 
cal man  who  had  experienced  the  rela- 
tionship, the  real  relationship  to  his 
Creator.  And  you  have  had  that  experi- 
ence, many,  and  I  hope  all  may  have 
it.    It  is  glorious.    And  then  the  prom- 


PRESIDENT  DAVID  O.  McKAY 


131 


"For  if  these  things  [virtues]  be  in 
you,  and  abound,  they  make  you  that 
ye  shall  neither  be  barren  nor  unfruit- 
ful in  the  knowledge  of  our  Lord  Jesus 
Christ."  (Ibid.,  1:8.) 

And  you  have  heard  in  this  confer- 
ence what  that  knowledge  means;  to 
know  God  and  Jesus  Christ,  his  Son,  is 
eternal  life.  Or,  in  the  exact  words,  as 
recorded  in  the   17th  chapter  of  John: 

"And  this  is  life  eternal  [this  is  Jesus 
praying  to  his  Father,  two  distinct  per- 
sonages] ,  that  they  might  know  thee  the 
only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
thou  hast  sent."  (John  17:3.) 

That,  my  brothers  and  sisters,  is  the 
highest  purpose  of  life.  It  has  been 
put  in  one  sentence  that  the  whole 
purpose  of  life  is  "to  subdue  matter" 
(conquer  everything  physical,  our  pas- 
sions, enmity,  selfishness,  and  all  that), 
"to  subdue  matter  that  we  might  realize 
the  ideal,"  and  that  is  the  ideal — "life 
eternal,  that  they  might  know  thee  the 
only  true  God,  and  Jesus  Christ,  whom 
thou  hast  sent." 

With  all  my  soul,  at  the  conclusion 
of  this  highly  spiritual  conference,  I 
bless  you  that  you  may  attain  that 
testimony,  that  high  spiritual  state, 
which  will  make  all  who  attain  it  ready 
to  enter  through  the  veil  into  the  pres- 
ence of  God,  our  Eternal  Father. 

Thank  you,  Brethren  and  our  fellow 
workers  of  the  General  Authorities,  for 
the  messages  you  have  given  during  this 
conference.  You  have  been  blessed. 
Thank  you,  brethren  and  sisters,  here 
especially  in  this  great  Tabernacle,  for 
your  reverent  attitude  in  every  session. 
May  you  go  home  now  with  your  chil- 
dren to  your  neighbors,  and  radiate  that 
high  spirit  of  love,  brotherhood,  virtue, 
integrity,  which  will  lead  them  to  in- 
vestigate the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ  and 
eventually  accept  those  principles,  that 
they  too,  someday,  may  realize  what  it 
is  to  be  "partakers  of  the  divine  nature," 
I  pray,  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ. 
Amen. 

President  David  O.  McKay: 

There  will  be  a  meeting  at  four  thirty 
this  afternoon  of  Temple  Presidencies 
in  the  Salt  Lake  Temple. 

Tonight  the  Deseret  Sunday  School 
Conference  will    convene    in    the    Salt 


Lake  Tabernacle  at  seven  o'clock.  All 
Sunday  School  workers  should  be  in  at- 
tendance. Others  are  cordially  invited. 
We  are  informed  by  the  Superintendent 
that  provision  will  be  made  for  over- 
flow audiences  in  the  Assembly  Hall 
and  in  Barratt  Hall. 

The  singing  for  this  afternoon,  as  this 
morning,  has  been  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir.  We  have  said  so 
often,  "thank  you,"  but  we  say  it  this 
afternoon  with  even  greater  apprecia- 
tion. God  bless  you  for  the  great  service 
you  are  rendering  to  this  Church  and  to 
the  nation!  I  am  sure  the  Lord  will 
bless  you  individually  and  collectively. 

The  Choir  will  now  favor  us  with 
"Hallelufah  Chorus,"  under  Brother 
Cornwall,  and  the  closing  prayer  will  be 
offered  by  Elder  Myron  L.  Western, 
president  of  the  West  Pocatello  Stake, 
after  which  this  Conference  will  be  ad- 
journed for  six  months. 


The  Tabernacle  Choir  sang  the  "Hal- 
lelujah Chorus." 

President  Myron  L.  Western  of  the 
West  Pocatello  Stake  offered  the  closing 
prayer. 

Conference  adjourned  sine  die. 


The  congregational  singing  for  the 
Conference  was  conducted  by  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  and  Richard  P.  Condie,  Con- 
ductor and  Assistant  Conductor  respec- 
tively, of  the  Tabernacle  Choir. 

The  choral  music  for  the  Friday  ses- 
sions was  furnished  by  the  Brigham 
Young  University  Combined  Choruses, 
with  Norman  Gulbrandsen  conducting 
at  the  morning  meeting,  and  Newel  B. 
Weight  at  the  afternoon  meeting. 

The  music  for  the  Saturday  morning 
and  afternoon  meetings  was  furnished 
by  the  Institute  of  Religion  Chorus  from 
the  University  of  Utah,  David  Austin 
Shand  conducting. 

At  the  General  Priesthood  Meeting 
the  choral  music  was  furnished  by  the 
Tabernacle  Choir  Male  Chorus,  J.  Spen- 
cer Cornwall  director. 

J.  Spencer  Cornwall  directed  the  sing- 
ing of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  at  the 
Sunday  morning  and  afternoon  sessions, 
and  also  the  Church  of  the  Air  and  the 


132  GENERAL  CONFERENCE 

Sunday,  April  7  Third  Day 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  broadcasts         Stenographic  notes  of  the  Conference 

Sunday  morning.  were  taken  by  Frank  W.  Otterstrom  and 

Accompaniments    and    interludes    on  Joseph  Anderson, 

the   Organ   were  played   by  Alexander  J      r 

Schreiner,  Frank  W.  Asper  and  Roy  M.  Joseph  Anderson 

Darley.  Clerk  of  the  Conference. 


133 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


Columbia  Broadcasting  System's 
Church  of  the  Air  was  presented  at  7:30 
a.m.,  Sunday,  April  7,  1957.  The  pro- 
gram was  as  follows: 

The  Tabernacle  Choir,  under  the  di- 
rection of  J.  Spencer  Cornwall,  fur- 
nished the  music  for  this  service,  with 
Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ.  Rich- 
ard L.  Evans  was  the  announcer. 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  The  Church  of  the  Air 
is  presented  by  CBS  Radio  so  that  repre- 
sentatives of  many  faiths  may  speak  to 
a  nationwide  congregation.  Today's 
service,  in  connection  with  the  Annual 
General  Conference  of  the  Church  of 
Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  comes 
to  you  transcribed  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  through 
the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  is  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney,  lawyer  and  distinguished 
public  servant,  and  Member  of  the 
Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of  the 
Church.  Music  is  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall, 


with  Alexander  Schreiner  at  the  organ. 

The  Choir  opens  with  Alexander 
KopylofFs  setting  for  these  words  from 
the  Psalms:  "Hear  my  cry,  O  God;  at- 
tend unto  my  pray'r;  Unto  Thee,  O 
Lord,  do  I  lift  up  my  soul  .  .  .  Hear  my 
cry,  O  God;  Attend  unto  my  pray'r." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Hear  My  Cry."— 
Kopyloff.) 

Announcer:  Now  from  the  Taber- 
nacle Choir  we  hear  one  of  the  hymn 
tunes  of  Evan  Stephens,  with  the  words 
of  Isaac  Watts:  "Praise  ye  the  Lord! 
My  heart  shall  join  in  work  so  pleasant, 
so  divine  .  .  ." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Praise  Ye  the 
Lord." — Stephens. ) 

Announcer:  We  now  hear  on  this 
Church  of  the  Air  Service  Elder  Marion 
G.  Romney,  lawyer,  Assistant  Manager- 
Director  of  the  Church  Welfare  Pro- 
gram, and  Member  of  the  Council  of  the 
Twelve  Apostles  of  the  Church  of  Jesus 
Christ  of  Latter-day  Saints,  frequently 
referred  to  as  the  Mormon  Church. 
Elder  Romney  has  titled  today's  talk: 
"The  Voice  of  the  Spirit." 


ELDER  MARION  G.  ROMNEY 

Of  the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles 


Fellow  worshippers  at  Columbia's 
Church  of  the  Air:  What  I  have  in 
mind  to  say  about  "The  Voice  of  the 
Spirit,"  our  theme  for  this  morning  as- 
sumes the  premise  that  the  Biblical 
doctrine  of  revelation,  signifying  the 
making  known  of  divine  truth  by  com- 
munication from  heaven,  is  in  fact  a 
reality. 

The  great  universal  and  basic  truths 
with  respect  to  God  and  men,  and  their 
relationship  to  each  other,  have  been 
revealed  and  have  been  recorded  in  the 
scriptures  in  every  dispensation.  The 
identity  of  God  and  the  origin  of  men 
was  revealed  by  the  Father  Himself. 

".  .  .  I,  God,  created  man  in  mine 
own  image,  in  the  image  of  mine  Only 
Begotten  created  I  him;  male  and  fe- 
male created  I  them."  (Moses  2:27.) 

"...  I  ascend  unto  my  Father,  and 


your  Father;  and  to  my  God,  and  your 
God,"  (John  20:17.)  said  Jesus  to  the 
sorrowing  Mary. 

The  Apostle  Paul  declared: 

".  .  .  in  Him  [God]  we  live,  and 
move,  and  have  our  being  .  .  .  For  we 
are  also  His  offspring."  (Acts  17:28.) 

The  destiny  of  man,  which  is  to  rise 
from  the  grave  in  resurrection  to  live 
forever,  has  also  been  revealed,  as  has 
the  fact  that  as  a  son  of  God  he  is  en- 
dowed with  the  potential  to  reach  the 
perfection  of  his  Heavenly  Father, 
provided  he  successfully  passes  the  test 
of  mortality. 

The  scriptures  further  reveal  tRat 
God,  having  placed  us  in  mortality  to 
meet  this  test,  did  not  leave  us  in 
ignorance,  confusion  and  despair  to  find 
our  way  by  chance,  but  that  from  the 
very  beginning  He  has  made  known  for 


134 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


our  benefit  the  gospel  of  Jesus  Christ, 
His  divine  plan  for  our  salvation  and 
exaltation.  These  great,  basic  truths 
were  given  by  revelation  which  came 
".  .  .  not  in  old  time  by  the  will  of  man: 
but  holy  men  of  God  spake  as  they 
were  moved  by  the  Holy  Ghost."  (II 
Peter  1:21.) 

Now  I  am  painfully  aware  that 
Christianity  does  not  today  evidence  a 
uniform  understanding  of  the  foregoing 
basic  doctrines.  The  scores  of  churches 
with  their  varied  creeds  and  different 
interpretations  seem  to  lead  away  from, 
rather  than  toward,  that  glorious  con- 
summation foreshadowed  by  Paul  when 
all  shall  ".  .  .  come  in  the  unity  of  the 
faith,  ..."  (Eph.  4:13.)  This  con- 
fusion, tragic  as  it  is,  does  not  however, 
disprove  the  thesis  that  the  doctrines 
came  by  revelation  and  declare  the  word 
of  God.  What  it  proves  is  that  the  con- 
flicting interpretations  of  these  basic 
revelations  are  being  made  in  the  feeble, 
flickering  light  of  man's  wisdom.  This 
naturally  brings  confusion,  because  the 
things  of  God  cannot  be  understood 
through  the  learning  of  men.  You  will 
recall  how  Paul  pressed  this  point. 

".  .  .  Eye  hath  not  seen,  not  ear  heard, 
neither  have  entered  into  the  heart  of 
man,  the  things  which  God  hath  pre- 
pared for  them  that  love  him." 

That  is  to  say,  the  things  of  God  can- 
not be  comprehended  through  the  na- 
tural senses  of  man. 

"But,"  he  continues,  "God  hath  re- 
vealed them  unto  us  by  his  Spirit:  for 
the  Spirit  searcheth  all  things,  yea,  the 
deep  things  of  God. 

"For  what  man  knoweth  the  things 
of  a  man,  save  the  spirit  of  man  which 
is  in  him?  even  so  the  things  of  God 
knoweth  no  man,  but  the  Spirit  of  God." 
(I  Cor.  2:9-11.) 

Now  if  this  doctrine  of  Paul's  be  true, 
and  we  witness  that  it  is  true,  there 
must  be  personal  revelation,  that  is,  rev- 
elation to  individuals,  by  which  they 
may  understand  the  basic  revelations 
and  receive  soul-satisfying  confirmation 
as  to  their  divinity.  That  there  is  such 
a  "Voice  of  the  Spirit,"  the  scriptures 
clearly  affirm. 

For  example: 

"When  Jesus  came  into  the  coasts  of 
Caesarea    Philippi,    he    asked   his    dis- 


ciples, saying,  Whom  do  men  say  that 
I  the  Son  of  man  am? 

"And  they  said,  Some  say  that  thou 
art  John  the  Baptist:  some,  Elias;  and 
others,  Jeremias,  or  one  of  the  prophets. 

"He  saith  unto  them,  But  whom  say 
ye  that  I  am? 

"And  Simon  Peter  answered  and  said, 
Thou  art  the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  liv- 
ing God. 

"And  Jesus  answered  and  said  unto 
him,  Blessed  art  thou,  Simon  Barjona: 
for  flesh  and  blood  hath  not  revealed  it 
unto  thee,  but  my  Father  which  is  in 
heaven."  (Matt.  16:13-17.)  Here  the 
Redeemer  Himself  declares  that  Peter 
received  from  His  Father  in  Heaven  by 
revelation  the  knowledge  that  Jesus  was 
the  Christ,  the  Son  of  the  living  Go/1. 
Why  did  not  the  others  know  who  He 
was?  They  who  said  he  was  John  the 
Baptist,  Elias,  Jeremias,  or  some  other 
of  the  prophets,  why  did  they  not  know 
the  identity  of  Jesus?  Obviously,  it  was 
because  His  identity  had  not  been  re- 
vealed to  them  by  "the  Voice  of  the 
Spirit"  as  it  had  been  to  Peter.  Until 
it  was  so  revealed  they  could  not  know 
Him,  for  ".  .  .  no  man  can  .  .  .  [know] 
that  Jesus  is  the  Lord,  but  by  the  Holy 
Ghost."  (I  Cor.  12:3.) 

That  this  "Voice  of  the  Spirit"  is 
available  to  all  who  will  receive  it,  is 
apparent  from  the  universal  call  and 
promise  of  Jesus. 

"Come  unto  me,  all  ye  that  labour 
and  are  heavy  laden,"  He  said,  "and  I 
will  give  you  rest."  (Matt.  11:28.) 

And  again: 

"Blessed  are  all  they  who  do  hunger 
and  thirst  after  righteousness,  for  they 
shall  be  filled  with  the  Holy  Ghost." 
(3  Nephi  12:6;  Matt.  5:6.) 

Since  God  has  revealed  all  things  es- 
sential for  man's  guidance  through 
mortality  to  his  glorious  destiny,  and  has 
provided  that  men  individually  by  the 
"Voice  of  the  Spirit"  may  receive  per- 
sonal revelation  to  enlighten  their  un- 
derstandings and  confirm  to  them  the 
truth  of  God's  revealed  word,  the  all- 
important  question  arises,  "How  can  we 
individually  attune  our  ears  to  that 
Voice,  so  indispensable  to  our  compre- 
hension and  appreciation  of  these  things 
so  vital  to  our  eternal  lives?" 

From    the    scriptures    we    draw    the 


CHURCH  OF  THE  AIR 


135 


answer:  first,  prayerfully  search  the 
scriptures,  and  second,  obey  the  com- 
mandments therein  written. 

No  principle  of  the  Gospel  is  more 
clearly  taught  than  that  God  will  re- 
ward the  sincere  seeker.  It  was  Jesus 
Himself  who,  in  the  following  words, 
gave  specific  assurance  that  such  reward 
includes  the  gift  of  the  Spirit. 

".  .  .  Ask,  and  it  shall  be  given  you; 
seek,  and  ye  shall  find;  knock,  and  it 
shall  be  opened  unto  you,"  He  said. 

".  .  .  For  everyone  that  asketh  re- 
ceiveth;  and  he  that  seeketh  findeth;  and 
to  him  that  knocketh  it  shall  be 
opened." 

To  emphasize  this  important  truth, 
He  put  the  following  question  and 
added  the  conclusion: 

"If  a  son  shall  ask  bread  of  any  of 
you  that  is  a  father,  will  he  give  him  a 
stone?  or  if  he  ask  a  fish,  will  he  for  a 
fish  give  him  a  serpent? 

"If  ye  then,  being  evil,  know  how  to 
give  good  gifts  unto  your  children:  how 
much  more  shall  your  heavenly  Father 
give  the  Holy  Spirit  to  them  that  ask 
him?"  (Luke  11:9-11,  13.) 

As  to  searching  the  scriptures,  you  will 
remember  that  to  them  who  sought  His 
life  because  He  said,  "that  God  was  his 
Father,"  Jesus  declared,  "Ye  have  neith- 
er heard  his  voice  . . .  nor  seen  His  shape. 
And  ye  have  not  his  word  abiding  in 
you;  for  whom  he  hath  sent,  him  ye  be- 
lieve not."  Then  He  told  them  that  if 
they  would  learn  of  Him,  they  should, 
"Search  the  scriptures;  for  in  them  ye 
think  ye  have  eternal  life:  and  they  are 
they  which  testify  of  me."  Continuing 
He  pointed  out  that  a  search  of  the 
scriptures  would  reveal  to  them  that 
Moses  himself,  whom  they  professed  to 
believe,  would  condemn  them  for  re- 
jecting Him.  "For,"  He  concluded,  "he 
wrote  of  me."  (John  5.) 

Luke  commends  the  Jews  of  Berea  as 
being,  ".  .  .  more  noble  than  those  in 
Thessalonica,  .  .  .  [because  they] 
searched  the  scriptures  daily,  .  .  ." 
whether  the  word  of  God  was  so.  As  a 
result,  "many  of  them  believed."  (Acts 
17:   10-12.) 

If  we  will  add  to  our  prayerful  search- 
ing of  the  scriptures,  obedience  to  the 
commandments  therein  revealed,  we 
shall  assuredly  obtain  "the  Voice  of  the 
Spirit."     For  Jesus  said,  ".  .  .  My  doc- 


trine is  not  mine,  but  his  that  sent  me. 
If  any  man  will  do  his  will,  he  shall 
know  of  the  doctrine,  whether  it  be  of 
God,  or  whether  I  speak  of  myself." 
(John  7:16-17.)  Now  there  is  just  one 
source  from  which  such  knowledge  can 
come,  and  that  is  from  God.  And  there 
is  just  one  way  in  which  it  can  come, 
and  that  is  by  "the  Voice  of  the  Spirit." 

To  the  men  of  Judea  and  others  dwell- 
ing at  Jerusalem  who,  pricked  in  their 
hearts  by  the  powerful  witness  borne  by 
the  Apostles  that  Jesus  was  the  Christ, 
cried  out,  ".  .  .  Men  and  brethren,  what 
shall  we  do?"  Peter  answered: 

".  .  .  Repent,  and  be  baptized  every 
one  of  you  in  the  name  of  Jesus  Christ 
for  the  remission  of  sins,  and  ye  shall 
receive  the  gift  of  the  Holy  Ghost. 

"For  the  promise  is  unto  you,  and  to 
your  children,  and  to  all  that  are  afar 
off,  even  as  many  as  the  Lord  our  God 
shall  call."  (Acts  2.) 

In  these  two  short  paragraphs,  Peter 
covered  three  phases  of  this  important 
matter.  He  specified  two  of  the  com- 
mandments which  must  be  obeyed,  i.e. 
repentance  and  baptism,  He  named  the 
chief  agent  of  "the  Voice  of  the  Spirit," 
the  Holy  Ghost,  and  he  declared  the 
promise  to  be  universal. 

Never  has  the  Lord  required  one  of 
us  to  rely  solely  upon  the  witness  of  an- 
other. This  voice  of  the  Spirit  enabling 
each  individual  to  know  for  himself  is 
as  much  a  part  of  God's  plan  for  the 
salvation  of  men  as  is  the  principle  of 
free  agency.  He  has  endowed  His  chil- 
dren with  both  free  agency  and  "the 
Voice  of  the  Spirit"  and  He  puts  upon 
each  of  them  the  responsibility  for  the 
proper  use  of  these  endowments.  The 
Lord  has  always  urged  His  children  to 
obtain  a  knowledge  and  witness  of  the 
truth  for  themselves. 

In  conclusion  I  give  you  my  own  wit- 
ness. By  "the  Voice  of  the  Spirit"  I 
have  learned  and  know  that  the  things 
I  have  said  this  day  are  true.  I  know 
that  God  is  a  personal  being  in  whose 
image  men  are  fashioned.  I  know  that 
He  is  our  Father,  that  we  are  His  chil- 
dren, that  as  such  we  are  endowed  with 
the  potential  to  eventually  come  to 
Him.  I  know  that  mortality  is  a  neces- 
sary phase  of  our  development,  that  ac- 
cording to  the  Father's  divine  plan  the 
earth  was    created   for   our   habitation, 


136 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


that  we  were  sent  here  to  receive  physi- 
cal bodies  and  to  be  tested  to  see  if 
walking  by  faith  we  will  keep  His  com- 
mandments. 

I  further  know  that  through  prayer- 
fully searching  the  scriptures  and 
through  obeying  God's  commands  as 
therein  written,  we  may  individually  be 
led  safely  through  life  by  "the  Voice  of 
the  Spirit"  according  to  the  divine  and 
glorious,  soul-satisfying  promise  that: 

".  .  .  the  Spirit  giveth  light  to  every 
man  that  cometh  into  the  world;  and 
the  Spirit  enlighteneth  every  man 
through  the  world,  that  hearkeneth  to 
the  voice  of  the  Spirit. 

"And  [that]  every  one  that  heark- 
eneth to  the  voice  of  the  Spirit  cometh 
unto  God,  even  the  Father."  (D.  &  C. 
84:46-47.) 

God  grant  that  we  may  all  so  hearken 
and  be  so  enlightened  through  the 
world,  I  humbly  pray. 

(The  Choir  sang:  "For  the  Strength 
of  the  Hills."— Stephens.) 

Announcer:  From  the  hymns  of  Evan 
Stephens  the  Choir  has  sung:  "For  the 
Strength  of  the  Hills  we  bless  Thee, 
Our  God,  our  Father's  God." 

And  now  the  Tabernacle  Choir  closes 
with  Campbell-Tipton's  setting  for  a 
text  from  the  9th  Psalm:  "I  will  give 
thanks  unto  the  Lord;  with  my  whole 
heart  will  I  praise  Thee,  O  God  .  .  .  For 
Thou  hast  not  forsaken  them  that  love 
Thee — I  will  give  Thanks  unto  the 
Lord." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "I  Will  Give 
Thanks,"  Campbell-Tipton;  and  "I'm  a 
Pilgrim,  I'm  a  Stranger,"  Robertson.) 

Music:  Organ  and  humming  choir: 
"Sweet  Is  the  Work." 

Announcer:  You  have  been  attending 
CBS  Radio's  Church  of  the  Air.  To- 
day's service,  in  connection  with  the 
Annual  General  Conference  of  the 
Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints,  came  to  you  transcribed  from  the 
Mormon  Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square 
through  the  facilities  of  Station  KSL  in 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah.  Our  speaker  was 
Elder  Marion  G.  Romney,  a  Member  of 
the  Council  of  the  Twelve  Apostles  of 
the  Church  of  Jesus  Christ  of  Latter-day 
Saints.  Music  was  by  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  directed  by  J.  Spencer  Cornwall. 
Alexander  Schreiner  was  at  the  organ. 


SALT  LAKE  MORMON 

TABERNACLE  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN 

BROADCAST 

The  following  broadcast,  written  and 
announced  by  Richard  L.  Evans,  and 
originating  with  Station  KSL,  Salt  Lake 
City,  was  presented  from  9:30  to  10:00 
a.m.  Sunday,  April  7,  1957,  through  the 
courtesy  and  facilities  of  the  Columbia 
Broadcasting  System's  network,  through- 
out the  United  States,  parts  of  Canada, 
and  through  other  facilities  to  several 
points  overseas.  The  broadcast  was  as 
follows: 

(The  organ  played,  "As  the  Dew 
From  Heaven  Distilling,"  and  on  sig- 
nal the  Choir  and  organ  broke  into  the 
hymn,  "Gently  Raise  the  Sacred  Strain," 
singing  the  words  to  the  end  of  the 
second  line,  and  humming  to  end  of 
verse  for  announcer's  background.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  welcome 
you  within  these  walls  with  music  and 
the  spoken  word  from  the  Crossroads  of 
the  West. 

The  CBS  Radio  Network  and  its  af- 
filiated stations  bring  you  at  this  hour 
another  presentation  from  Temple 
Square  in  Salt  Lake  City,  with  J.  Spencer 
Cornwall  conducting  the  Tabernacle 
Choir,  Alexander  Schreiner,  Tabernacle 
Organist,  and  the  spoken  word  by  Rich- 
ard Evans. 

We  begin  with  music  from  Men- 
delssohn's "St.  Paul"  with  words  se- 
lected from  scripture:  "Rise  up  arise, 
rise  and  shine  for  thy  light  comes,  and 
the  glory  of  the  Lord  doth  appear  upon 
thee.  Behold  now,  total  darkness  cov- 
ereth  the  kingdoms,  and  gross  darkness 
the  people.  But  .  .  .  the  glory  of  the 
Lord  appeareth  upon  thee." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Rise  Up,  Arise." 
— Mendelssohn.) 

Announcer:  At  the  Tabernacle  Organ 
on  Temple  Square  today  Alexander 
Schreiner  turns  to  the  dramatic  and 
moving  "Toccata  in  C  Minor"  by  Leon 
Boellman. 

(Organ  selection:  "Toccata  in  C 
Minor." — Boellman. ) 

Announcer:  With  the  Women's  Chor- 
us of  the  Tabernacle  Choir  we  turn 
now  to  music  from  Mendelssohn's  Elijah, 
with  the  comforting,  strengthening  words 
of  the  121st  Psalm:  "Lift  thine  eyes,  O 


CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 


137 


lift  thine  eyes  unto  the  mountains 
whence  cometh  help.  My  help  cometh 
from  the  Lord,  the  maker  of  Heaven  and 
earth.  He  will  not  suffer  thy  foot  to 
be  moved;  He  that  keepeth  thee  will  not 
slumber."  "Lift  Thine  Eyes,  O  Lift 
thine  eyes  .  .  ." 

(The  Women's  Chorus  of  the  Choir 
sang:  "Lift  Thine  Eyes." — Mendels- 
sohn.) 

Announcer:  The  Tabernacle  Choir 
now  sings  from  the  130th  Psalm,  with 
the  music  of  John  E.  West  and  the 
pleading,  moving  words  of  a  prayer  for 
strength  for  peace — and  repentance: 
"Out  of  the  deep  have  I  called  unto 
Thee,  Lord,  hear  my  voice  .  .  .  For  there 
is  mercy  with  Thee  .  .  .  Out  of  the  Deep 
have  I  called  unto  Thee,  O  Lord." 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Out  of  the  Deep." 
—West.) 

Announcer: 

In  a  single  short  sentence  Thomas 
Carlyle  suggests  a  searching  subject: 
"Why  tell  me  that  a  man  is  a  fine 
speaker,"  he  said,  "if  it  is  not  the  truth 
that  he  is  speaking?"1  To  paraphrase 
Carlyle's  question:  Why  tell  me  that  a 
man  is  a  fine  teacher,  if  it  is  not  the 
truth  that  he  is  teaching?  This  calls  up 
the  question  as  to  the  trust  of  teaching, 
and  also  the  question  as  to  what  makes 
a  good  teacher.  All  of  us  are  well  aware 
that  teaching  is  more  than  a  matter  of 
academic  credentials.  And  most  for- 
tunate are  they  who  in  a  whole  long 
lifetime  have  found  a  few  great  and 
good  and  effective  teachers  to  touch 
and  transform  their  lives.  The  fact  is 
that  "  a  teacher  not  only  teaches  his 
subject,  but  he  also  teaches  himself"2 — 
by  which  we  mean  that  what  he  is  in- 
side himself  is  inevitably  mixed  with  his 
subject  matter  and  carries  over  to  his 
students  in  some  measure.  Yet  often  in 
academic  practice  and  procedure  a  stu- 
dent registers  for  a  course,  not  knowing 
which  of  several  teachers  he  will  be  as- 
signed to.  And,  to  put  it  on  a  very 
homely  level,  it  is  almost  as  if  he  were 
buying  ungraded  goods:  for  all  of  us, 
from  our  own  experience,  can  testify 
that  the  teacher  teaches  not  only  sub- 
jects, but  also  teaches  what  he  is  inside 
himself.    One  might  think,  for  example, 

Thomas  Carlyle,  Inaugural  Address,   1866. 
2Author  of  phrase  unknown. 


that  such  an  impersonal  subject  as 
mathematics  might  be  taught  with  about 
the  same  result  by  anyone  who  has  the 
academic  credentials.  But  the  person- 
ality, the  interest  (or  lack  of  it),  the 
sympathetic  attitude  (or  lack  of  it),  and 
the  aptness  of  explanation  make  much 
difference  even  in  seemingly  so  set  a 
subject  as  mathematics.  And  some  of 
us  could  testify  that  we  have  seen  even 
dead  languages  made  to  live  by  the 
warmth  and  sincerity  and  magic  touch 
of  a  dedicated  teacher,  whose  very  life 
affects  every  subject  he  touches,  every 
student  he  teaches.  And  often  it  is  not 
so  much  subjects  about  which  we  need 
be  concerned,  but  teachers,  and  what 
they  do  in  the  molding  of  minds:  for 
the  same  subject  can  be  taught  with  a 
difference  between  daylight  and  dark- 
ness. And  this  is  true  of  all  teachers, 
weekdays  and  Sundays,  professional  and 
volunteer  teachers,  wherever  and  when- 
ever teachers  teach:  for  teachers  have  a 
real  responsibility  for  all  ideas  and  all 
ideals  and  for  all  their  impressions  upon 
the  pupil.  What  the  student  is  made  to 
see  and  feel  and  sense,  and  every  in- 
nuendo, is  all  part  of  the  teaching  pro- 
cess. To  be  a  teacher  is  a  sacred  trust, 
and  in  a  very  real  sense,  the  teacher  is 
responsible  for  the  total  effect  of  his 
teaching. 

(Organ  selection:  "Cradle  Song." 
(Berceuse)  — Arensky. ) 

Announcer:  With  Dr.  Schreiner  at  the 
Tabernacle  Organ  we  have  heard  the 
quietly  moving  phrases  of  a  Berceuse, 
a  tender  "Cradle  Song"  by  Arensky. 

And  now  the  Choir  closes  with  M. 
Thomas  Cousins'  moving  and  dramatic 
setting  for  the  57th  Psalm:  "I  will  praise 
Thee,  O  Lord  among  the  people,  I  will 
sing  unto  Thee  among  the  nations  .  .  . 
Let  Thy  glory  be  above  all  the  earth, 
Glorious  everlasting!" 

(The  Choir  sang:  "Glorious  Everlast- 
ing."— Cousins.) 

Announcer:  Once  more  we  leave  you 
within  the  shadows  of  the  everlasting 
hills.  May  peace  be  with  you,  this  day 
— and  always. 

This  concludes  the  1442nd  presenta- 
tion continuing  the  28th  year  of  this 
traditional  broadcast  from  the  Mormon 
Tabernacle  on  Temple  Square,  brought 


138  CHOIR  AND  ORGAN  BROADCAST 

to  you  by  CBS  Radio  and  its  affiliated  was  at  the  organ.    The  spoken  word  by 

stations,  originating  with  Radio  Station  Richard  Evans. 

KSL  in  Salt  Lake  City.  In  another  seven  days,  at  this  same 

J.  Spencer    Cornwall    conducted   the  hour,  music  and  the  spoken  word  will 

Tabernacle  Choir  with  its  three-hundred  be  heard  once  more  from  the  Crossroads 

seventy-five  voices.    Alexander  Schreiner  of  the  West. 


139 

INDEX 

Page 

Anderson,  Elder  Joseph  ,.  35 

Authorities  and  Officers  Present 1 

Authorities  and  Officers  Sustained  41 

Bennion,  Elder  Adam  S 115 

Benson,  Elder  Ezra  Taft 53 

Brown,  Elder  Hugh  B 102 

Buehner,  Bishop  Carl  W 29 

Changes  in  Church  Officers,  Stake,  Ward,  and  Branch  Organizations 35 

Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast  136 

Christiansen,  Elder  EIRay  L 62 

Church  Auditing  Committee  Report  41 

Church  of  the  Air 133 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr 44 

Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr 41 

(Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers) 
Clark,  President  J.  Reuben,  Jr 86 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Coombs,  Elder  D'Monte  W 83 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L 12 

Evans,  Elder  Richard  L 137 

(Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast) 

Financial  and  Statistical  Report 39 

First  Day — Morning  Meeting  3 

First  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  18 

General  Authorities  and  Officers  Present  1 

General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers  Sustained 41 

General  Priesthood  Meeting 79 

Hanks,  Elder  Marion  D 125 

Hunter,  Elder  Milton  R 57 

Isaacson,  Bishop  Thorpe  B 67 

Ivins,  Elder  Antoine  R 64 

Kirkham,  Elder  Oscar  A 114 

Lee,  Elder  Harold  B 20 

Longden,  Elder  John  69 

McConkie,  Elder  Bruce  R 19 

McKay,  President  David  0 4 

(Opening  Address) 
McKay,  President  David  0 92 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
McKay,  President  David  0 129 

(Closing  Address) 

McKay,  President  David  0 3,  4,  9,  11,  14,  17,  18,  20,  25,  26, 

29,  31,  34,  35,  41,  52,  53,  57,  58,  59,  60,  62,  64,  66, 

69,  71,  74,  78,  79,  83,  86,  89,  92,  94,  95,  100,  102, 

106,  110,  113,  114,  115,  118,  120,  124,  129,  131. 

Morris,  Elder  George  Q 100 


140  INDEX 

Page 

Moyle,  Elder  Henry  D 31 

Obituaries 38 

Petersen,  Elder  Mark  E 110 

Presentation  of  General  Authorities  and  Officers 41 

Priesthood  Meeting,  General  79 

Richards,  Elder  LeGrand 14 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L 95 

Richards,  President  Stephen  L 89 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting) 
Romney,  Elder  Gordon  M 80 

(General  Priesthood  Meeting  ) 
Romney,  Elder  Marion  G 133 

(Church  of  the  Air) 

Second  Day — Morning  Meeting 35 

Second  Day — Afternoon  Meeting 59 

Sill,  Elder  Sterling  W 107 

Smith,  Elder  Eldred  G 71 

Smith,  President  Joseph  Fielding 60 

Sonne,  Elder  Alma 25 

Stapley,  Elder  Delbert  L 74 

Statistical  and  Financial  Report  39 

Sustaining  of  General  Authorities,  Officers  and  Auxiliary  Officers 41 

Tabernacle  Choir  and  Organ  Broadcast 136 

Third  Day — Morning  Meeting 94 

Third  Day — Afternoon  Meeting  113 

Wirthlin,  Bishop  Joseph  L 120 

Young,  Elder  Clifford  E 9 

Young,  Elder  Levi  Edgar 27 

Young,  Elder  S.  Dilworth 118 


